PAGE 2 Taxati~on W,ith Despite the complaints of some, it is mol!e than obvious that the scene of weekend activities here on camp11s has improved vastly this year. This change, perhaps more evident <to those whC9 struggled through the abyss of the past three years of stagnacy, has been nothing less t:ltan a dynamic altering of the en tire flavor of college life. The mai11. cause of this change has been the diligence and not in.considerable success of the Social CQmmittee. Along with this group, however, congratulations also are deserved by those respQnsible for a more streamlined Convocation system and .a much improved sr~ctrum of Club speakers. Within the machinery of this beneficent acceleration, though, there is a flaw. This oversight was the failure to appropriate Stu·dent 'Ta.x money for Lhe Social Committee. The blame for this oversight appears to lie equally in both camps. At first it was theorized that the concerts would at least 1\reak ~ven. This seefi'Js to have been clearly over-optimistic. EveN with sales to the community tbe concerts have lost about $1300 so far. In terms of service rendered, this amount seems to us a bargain. Problems have arisen because the tax committee must now set at least an informal limit on. the €eiling of its indebtedness. . As may well be imagined, a considerahle clash is·always possible between one group running out of money and another eager for :backing to support more concerts. . It seems that neither side can win in this argument, and it is important that the two groups negotiate a specific debt ceiling. Next year, of course, they should arrive at a budgeted appropriation as with other activities. Although it may seem unpopular to advocate, the near revoluti()n in activities ()n campus may require an increase in Student Tax in the near future. A five- dollar a ~erm increase in the Tax would yield an additional eight thousand dollars for Sh:tdent Activities. This would more than cover any additional expenses that might arise next year in other activities as well as provide the necessary \cushion\ for the Social Committee's fine work. It is reported in this issue that the activities of the course evaluation survey, The Linebackel', will be curtailed because of lack of funds. The Coacordy was forced to reduce its page size this year because monies to cover increased printing costs were likewi~e unavailable. ~ro~­ ;:;)_.; .... ~ :t. OJonrur 17 K (.! 95 bttn 12 t. ~. ?;~_.,j) IJ . ;I :;I . -..tL~.· . . .- ..,..(,..,. . Published Tu~sday and.f'riday, Editorial Office, Old Gym, during t:he School year by .the Union College. Publication Studf'!nt 8ody o.f Union Office. V\/hitehurs~ PFin·ting & College, Schenectady, N. Y, Bin ding Co., 1 nc.. 416-418 National Advertising Fifth Ave., Troy, 235-4450 .. Rep resentat.lve: National Entered in the Schenectady E ducat:ional Advertising Post Office as Second Class Service, Inc., Collage Mail Matter. Sl!bscription 20 Publishers Representative. 360 cents a copy; $6 a year Lex i'ngton Avenue, N. Y .C. delivered anywhere in the United States. Henry G. Fein \\'illiam Ouzer Editors·in-Chief Peter J. Weingold ................. MamzgiJlg Editor Jeff Bim ....................... Business Manager William J. Holleran .................. Spol'ts Editor Jody Saslow .................. PhotograpJJy Editor M. Paul Andrews ............... Contributi11g Editor Richard Patterson .............. Contributi11g Editor Neil S. l<ramer ...... _ ............ Editor Emeritus Staff: Robert ·A. Levine, Danny ShockeJ, David Uguccioni, Louis Snitknf{. Tony Faga, Doug Wong, M. ,Grq~man, !rfike Gottlieb, John Ha\igan Peter Bickerman, Steve Levy-. Michelle Vottis, Lloyd Birns. Michael Swirsky, Neil Green, Doug Tosch, George Kaplan, Charie~ !Jong. Jrfarg Shugo/1, Greg Harrzlitz, Mike Humber, Dennis A/s(lfrom, Stu Moss, Broce Garber, Hank Levine. Dave Cunrey FEBRUARY 3, 1970 Notes From Newman Why Are We Violent? unheard of in the animal artistic-intuitive-revelatory By PHIL DISORBOR It seems that since the magnificent evolutionary achievement that resulted in the explosive development of the human brain some two million. years ago, the human species has undergone a process of not-so-magnificent secondary evolution- namely, its evolution to distinct tribes, races. nations, and religions which treat each other as members of different species, even to the point of killing. This \pseudo specia tioR\ has taken us to the point of annihilation • races, nations, ideologies, and religions not only failing to recognize their human brothers and sisters as members of the same species, but even actively exploiting, manipulating, and killing them. It seems that violence within a species is practically world (cf. Konrad Lorenz), experience of man, especially 1 1· and ·inter-species killing take.s within the Christian tradition, place only in cases of hunger has (though often popularly and defense. Animals. can be corrupted) been one of active , violeRt, but rites of non-violeRce and a joint pacification usually prevent humanity based on the Law u s e 1 e s s killing. Man's of Love. This is the basis for a irrational, self-destructive, spiritual stand against total type of killing stands violence and selfishness · alone in the animal world. whether it be ill interpersonal We human beings have lost relationships, excessive the sense of our common legalism and moralism, humanity; and history, over-attachment to things especially modern history, is obedience to a corrupt replete with senseless system, exploitation of violence. The true human beings, or senseless r e 1 i g i o u s . killing· Dean of Center I and Professor of History, Martin Lichterman has announced an Open House for Students and Faculty next Wednesday, February fourth from 3:30 to 5:00. The affair, which will he held in the newly cleaned Social Sciences Lounge, is open to all interested in attending. Sherry will be served. }. letters to the Editor To the Editor: .Our heartiest congratulations to the planning committee of the third monthly \Dead Weekend.\ Your rousing success may be attributed to tbe overwhelming community support given the event. The concert that was not held and the Mountebanks' production that was not produced were only the beginnings for this glorious weekend. Sunday of \Dead Weekend\ was highlighted by the unusually tasteful Pomegranate film festival that was not held. Despite the elaborate planning which made this weekend such a monumental success we would like to point out several ways in which the fourth monthly \Dead Weekend\ might be improved. It has been alleged that several local taverns proved uncooperative by remaining open. This situation must be remedied. One small but noticeable error was the functioning pinball machine in the Rathskeller, the operation of which tended to mar the spirit of this great festival. We respectfully submit to the planning committee that more and better dead weekends would be possible were surveys to be taken in DIAMANTE'S Enjoy Our Fine Home Cooked Italian food in Our Comfortable Dining Room Opp. The Brownell Gate on NoH Stre.t Open Doily 1 0 to 1 A.M. Sundays 5 P.M. to I A.M. advance to ensure greater turnouts and more spontaneous non-happenings. Scott Simons '72 Kenneth Brooks '72 Douglas Canfield '72 Dear Brother: triadical decision: 1. Quiese 2. Bellicosize 3. \Am Scray\ Is there a way out? The shackles are being fastened ..... AYUDA, Dead Squid (M. Eisner) '68 Dear Editor, The government is tired of the unrest on college campuses. The government did not realize what the future would produce when in 1958 the politicians catalyzed college education. Instead of moving Democratically ahead (a $ the government hoped), college participants jettisoned + blossomed antithetically. It's a Winton Flyer in \The ·Reivers\ not a \Wheaton Fly~r.\ Mr. Meserole is right about everything else but the book tJ is best, of course. Now, the government is goinJ to SPANK colleges by taking away student deferrment. Sincerely, Mrs. Esther Willison . · For example, the EDUCATEE will have a Pennel Esso Service Nott Street Corner Of VanVranken Graubart & Sons may run small ads, but they have big values. Schenectady's fomou! d1omond shop, for three generations) 166 Joy St. Three Union Graduates in Family. ZELLMER'S NORGE LAUNDRY AND CLEANING VILLAGE AT 1559 VAN VRANKEN AVE. !at HoHie Street) DR¥ CLEANING WASHERS 8 Lbs. ----------- $2.00 12 Lb.------------ .25 4 Lb. Min.-------- 1.00 20 Lb.-----·------ .35 DRYERS 30 Lb. _____ • _ _ _ _ _ _ .50 lO Min.' _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ . 1 0 OPEN- MON. TO FRI. 8:00A.M. TO 9:00P.M. SATURDAY 8:00A.M. TO 5 P.M. (CLOSED SUNDAYS) IF YOU HAVE NEVH HAD NORGE DRY CLEANING DONE WE CAN BET YOU WILL BE AMAZED , FEBRUAR G The ( announce@ latest re \Union C< A long· producHc includes S( 1968\69 ( \three Mm by the Vas Singers. Include' Every Tor by Bach,\ Justi,\ an, Priens d D'Assisi\ latter feat Cole as soli Also on \Stopping Snowy Ev( the Rober the mo Randall anonymo century Benedictm ll AlthOU! shock son this it is There is a Not to fu schedules, be told th: war. Com every Thu and 1 at 1 the other found out The Cc errorandi rescind i Samuel T Gerald H) will be rna There\ those int1 0 n t h Environm 4:30, Feb 110 of So, Pn Typi IBM Se Math s~ type st\ typing Rea s c Depend• Call 48S

:1 t}f~ ·~ I ially \ '\\' joint Law a inst ll.;, 9 1,, - J. sive of y, 6 se . } ly '68 ;;, er in ot a Mr. book 61 ) .25 .35 .50 l t i FEBRUARY 3, 1970 PAGE 3 Glee Club Releases ·Recording of 1968-69 (alendar TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 3, 1970 ~':Killer'' Sei;ken To Lea:d Mialh Profs In Volleyb:all The Glee Club has announced the release .of its latest recording, entitled \Union College Glee Club.\ A long-playin:g stereo production, the record includes selections from the 1968\69 concert tour and 'three Monteverdi Madrigals by the Vassar-Union Madrigal Singers. Included are \Now 1 Let Every Tongue Adore Thee\ by Bach, Viadana's \Exultate Justi,\ and \Quatre Petites Prie ns de Sa int-Frarrcais D'Assisi\ by Poulenc. The latter features junior Steven Cole as soloist. Also on the recording are \Stopping by Woods on a Snowy Evening,\ a setting of the Robert Frost poem by the modern American Randall Thompson, an anonymous seventeenth- century \Sanctus and Benedictus.\ Blither Although it will seriously shock son1e people to read this it is best they be told. There is a war on in Vietnam. Not to further disrupt daily schedules, people should also be told that there is killing in war. Come pray for peace every Thursday between 12 and I at Veterans Park. Join the other people who have found out about the war. The Committee regrets its error and is forced to publicly rescind its award of the Samuel T. Hehnh award to Gerald Hyman. A new award will be made soon. There will be a meeting for those interested in working on the April 22 Environmental Teach-In at 4:30, February 4th, in Room 110 of Social Sciences . Professional Typing Service IBM Selectric. Greek and Math symbols. Choice of type style. Experienced in typing Doctoral theses. Reasonable rates. Dependable. Call 489-6978 any time. H. Walford Davies's \God Be in My Head\ is presented, along with \Na Buhin Tern\ by the Brzilian composer Villa-Lobos. Kirk Vyverberg is the featured The album is available from Chairman of Sales Gene Greco, who lives at 155 Fox. It may also be ordered and purchased from Brian Gillie (Alpha Delta Phi), Jerry Nathan (Phi Epsilon Pi), Peter Brayton (213 Fox), or R. Bruce Dewey (6 North College). 8:15 p.m., H.H.F.L., Student-Faculty Bridge WEDNESDAY, F 1 EBRUARY 4, l970 7:00 & 9:00p.m., S.S. 16, FILM HAPS, \Hunchback of Notre Dame\ FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 6, 1970 6: 15 p.m., Field House, FR. BASKETBALL: Union vs. Albany Junior College 8:00 p.m., Field House, BASKETBALL: Union vs. Clarkson 8:00 p.rn., S.S. 16, FILM SERIES, \King Kong\ A fresh look at In what promises to be a sports event at least unprecedented in Union history, the Math Department Faculty will play their students in Volleyball, this Thursday, at 7:00P.M. Although the Field House has only linrited seating it was there that the Professors decided ·to assert themselves as not only an associative but also a communitive group. According to tN.e pre-game bulletin, the team will be led by \Killer\ Seiken, the department chairman and ''Speedy\ Bick who has llimself a star to sports fans here with his performances at shortstop for the faculty team. Rounding out the group, which has the strength to substitmte freely, will be ''Bouncy\ Behan and \Bubbly\ Ballard, as well as \Shifty\ Roulier, \Lovable\ Leach, \Crazy-Legs\ Loughlin, '\Dutd~' Riley and \Quick-Digit\ Strait. A s id e f r ·O rn t h o s e nicknamed stars ~ell known to Cameige Ha:ll regulars many more will fill in and stHI more appear. at the skellar for beer afterward. The technology of moving things That's right! Grumman's r.eal business is ~he techno_logy of moving things .. . men and machines in purposeful patterns Wi!hin .a .great diversity of origins, destmations and tact1cal Situations. Speed 1s often, but not always, the answer. Pe rlormance rel1ablltty-1A sp1te of many interlaces-is the thing. In close-in combat \dog fights\-an aircraft with speed, maneuverability and armamemts .•. the F-14 Air Superiority Fighter. In lunar exploration- The Lunar Module which successfully landed the astronauts on the moon. In areas of enemy activity-an aircraft with track and search radar that can locate, identify and lock on to the target, even in zero visibility ... the A6A Intruder, and advanced versions. In early warning emergencies-an aircraft that can extend the eyes and ears of a Navy task force at sea through radar and computers that alert interceptor aircraft to impending enemy attacks ... the E2A Hawkeye, and advanced versions. Far above the earth, a satellite that can discover more about the evolution of the universe ... the Orbiting Astronomical Observatory. Add Deep Submersibles, Hydrofoil seacratt, High-speed .Ground Transportation systems, Corpora~e air.craft and Lunar Surface vehicles, and you get some idea of how Grumman is extendmg the perimeters of the technology of movtng thmgs. At Grumman the opportunity for moving is presented in abundance to Physics, Aero, Civil, Mechanical, Electricai/Eiec1ronic, Chemical, Industrial Engineering or Technology Majors determined to find the right vehicle for their careers. Grumman Representative will he on Campus February 6, 1970 To obtatn Grumman .Laterature and arrange an on~campus anterv1ew. contact your College Placement Olf•ce. . !tan on-campus mtervaew IS not conventent, send comprehcnstvc resume to Mr Rachard ·N Haug. Manaqer Colleqe Relat•ons/Recru•tmenl. Dept GA·251. -*'=~ ~-~,~~~~~GRUMMAN , •.. ,,~, .... AEROSPACE CORPORATION ~ . . Betl:lpage • Long Is land • New York llj An Equal Opportun>ty Employer (M/F)

PAGE 4 Grapplers Flatten Kings Point By Bl LL HOLLERAN A superb team effort on the part of the Garnet varsity wrestling squad boosted the Dutchmen to a 26-14 triump on SatUFday over highly-rated Kings Point, one of the toughest team's on the Garnet schedule. The win was the fourth for Union in five starts. In a match in which one of the Garnet's brightest stars failed to shine, two of Union's lesser-lights carne through with pins. Cary Morris, at 190, put his opponent to the mat at 6:02, while unheralded, fovmerly winless Len Solomon pinned his man in 5:26. P.enn Sheldon, the Garnet's highly touted frosh, was overwhelmed by his Kings Point opponent, John Hansom, at 142. Sheldon, formerly the only unbeaten and untied grappler on the Union squad, dropped a 1 0-0 shu tout decision. Phil Reed, the other half of the Garnet's freshmen mat Dynamic Due, fared better at 15 8. Reed completely dominated his opponent en route to an easy 10-2 triump. The Garnet lightweights once again had little difficulty in improving their records. Ron Ruhl, at 118, gained a 7-2 win, and Bill Muno scored a pin at 4:51 in I Track Tops MVCC 55-yard high hurdles while Volz put the shot 41'2\. the 126 bout. Strongman Naysim Simon, wrestling up a weight class at 177, flattened his adversary in 4:46. The senior strongman has lost only one match in his three-year, 24-match career--that defeat at the hands of last year's fifth-place NCAA fittalist, Art Zeigler of ~pringfield. Losers tor the Garnet were Bill Simson, 16-5, and heavyweight Pete Kenyon, 7-4. Richards of Kings Point scored a win by default at 1 50, as Bart Gale was disqualified in the match. All in all the Garnet looked impressive in the cofltest, winning six of ten bouts and totaling four pins. Especially pleasing were the performat1ces of Morris and Solomon. The Dutchmet:l face another to1:1gh opponet:lt on Friday, when they travel Borth to Canton to battle St. Lawrence. The Larries are led by 215-lb, unlimited-class performer Bill La Rock, who is unbeaten it1 three years of college competition. FEBRUARY 3, 1970 Tedisco Returns to Lead Cage~rs Aga·insf Ban,fa:ms By MARK SHUGOLL The Unhil n basketball team ventures to Hartford, Conn~cticut, tonight, to oppose the Bantams of Trinity College. Tile Camet will be counting on the recovery of Jim Tedisco from an ankle it1jury to lead them to their win in thirteen starts. Tedisco Returns Tedisco, 'Union's leading scorer with a 26.9 average, was hurt late in the Du tcbmen's most recent encounter with Kings Point. The 5-8\ star did practice last week, and is expected to be r:tear top form in the Trinity test. Height Advantage The Gamet will once again be up against a opponent of superior height. The Connecticut outfit is led by 6-6\ center Jim Pantalone, leading scorer with a 27 point average. Joinil'lg him in the frontcoart are 6-2\ Ron Centaro, averaging 10 points a game, and 6-4\ Gene Newell. The Garnet boast but one player as tall as 6-3\ center Rit Galla cci. Guard Howie Greenblatt, with a 15 point average, is the second high scorer for Trinity, which is a 5-3 on the s:eason. In their latest effort, the Bantams were humiliated by Amherst, 90-73. Union trails in the series which dates back to 1923, n:Janaging nine wins in the 29 games played. The Garnet, however, dumped Trinity 72-6-(i) last year at Schenectady. Common Foe The two ,teams have met one common opponent this season. Union bowed in its season opener to Middlebury 81-72, while the Bantams fel[ to the Vermonters by an 86-7 5 count. The Union freshmen will battle the frosh from Trinity in the preliminary game. The Garnet yearlings are 1-5, while the home team displays a 1-4 mark. The Union frosh have been paced by the play ofl\4ike Doyle and Jim Bolz. • ,1\ VOLUME, 99 NO. 36 • ,j · -j Senate Refuses I .)f The Student Senate · ! refused to over-ride a Tax t 1 ,.,. 1 Committee decision against . continuing financial support : for Linebacker in its present t ~., 1 form at its meeting Tuesday night. ' A motion expressing the •-~,.t~.i senate's support for a I freshman baseball team , \financed through the ~ '\• Atheletic Department\ was ·' approved. The Senate tabled, ', until the next meeting on of the Junior Year Camp. Ed. project. Shortage of Fur The Studen Committee, comp< Chairman Ross Fra Furlong and Roy pleaded a shor1 unallocated funds as reason for refus Unebacl(er's reque committee proposed small e r a !location would allow abm Sunda' Fourth- Union College's varsity t rae k team recorded an impressive 73-18 victory over Mohawk Valley Community College Frid&y night at the Field House. The best that the hapless visitors could do was a S!Jrprise tie for first in the pole vault. In the 1000, junior John Braham went out to an early lead, fought off a furious challenge from frosh Tim McCabe, and won his event in 2:33.8. The freshman star finished one tenth of a second behind. . ~--February 17, a motion proposing sweeping revisions M • V ll s • 76 34 ~ Neil S. Kramer and artners ~\ e . . Wtmmers, - . Richard M. Daniel, Jr., both e • seniors and co-editors of the Miss Helen r Capital District orga choir director, will 1 concert of compositions in I Chapel Sunday afterr p.m. The Garnet triumph was not lacking in stellar performances. Sophomcre Mike Rich cleared 6'4\ to tie the Field House record in the high jump. Another Gamet to shine was versatile co-captain Rich Jaszczak. The soph managed a first in the 5()-yard dash (5.7 sec.), a tie for first in the 600 (1: 19.4), and anchored the winning mile relay team. Sophs Paul Forbes and Bryant Moeckel domina ted the distance events. Forbes copped the mile run in 4:41.7, with Moeckel gairting the third spot in 4:46.7. The tables were turned in the grueling two mile, however, as Moeckel strided to a fine 10:07 victory over Forbes. Previously unheralded freshman Vince Foster ran away from the field in the first heat of the 600. His time of 1:19.4 equaled the time in the second heat of All-American Jaszczak. Steve Wood, finishing one second behind the leaders, took a third place for a Union sweep. Freshmen Ed Rossi and Bill Volz also captured their specialties. Rossi ran 7. 7 seconds in winning tl1e THE PEANUT STORE Feotufln g PLANTERS HOT ROASTED PEANUTS and Nutmeat5 from all ov•r the world 406 STATE ST. Union managed a tie for first and a third in the pole vault. Gray Watkins cleared 11.6\ to gain the tie, while Bill Clayton, leaping 11 ', copped the third place position. Both of the Dutchmen relay teams won their respective events. Greg Hamlin, Braham, Mark Burdelle, and McCabe ran to an 8:33.5 victory in the two-mile relay. Senior Co-captain Pete Ericson, who also finished third in the 50-yard dash, Hamlin, Wood,and Jaszczak won an easy 3: 38 triumph in the mile relay. By BRUCE GARBER In an unexpected display of spirit, depth, and power, the Kings Point Merchantmariners demolished the thus far undefeated Garnet mermen. The Gamet's record fell to 3-1-1 . The Cadets were simply too powerful for the flu-plagued Dutchmen, riding over them 76-34. The Garnet captured only two wins, one by freshman diver John Ludwig, and the other in the final relay. Though the Kings Point margin ofvictory was great, it wasn't a true measure of the meet, as bad luck added to the mermen's misfortune. THE RIGHT PERSON IN THE RIGHT CAREER This is more than our Motto· it's our Promise to you. We're constantly in con-tact with the Na1ion's most Progressive Firms and we lcnow where the openings are both locally & nationally. Stop in at our modern offices. we•re here to help you. Most positions are fee paid. [21cAREER ADVISORS 650 ~r, \~KI IN ~T AC El SCHENECTADY. NY 12305 • PHONE 518-37247b8 ,_..EWEST LU~CH 71 S Albany Street Spec:ializi ng: - HOT DOGS WITH fAMOUS SAUCE - DINNERS AND SANDWICHES - TAKE-OUT ORDERS - Union Student' Favorite Spot - I Servin~ Sc:h•nectady Since 19211 Mon.-Thurs. 7 A.M.-2 A.M. Fri.·Sat. 7 A.M.·4 A.M. Sun. 9 A.M.· I A.M. The first reLay team of Gary Needel, Jon Horwath, Bob Szatrowski, and Tom Hill had a seven- point victory snatched f nnn then in the last legs, while junior standout Burt Y ankiver landed a rare third place in tJ1e 200-yard freestyle. Both Yankiver and Horwath were suffering from recent bouts with the Hu. Today, the Gamet faced Hamilton in Clint()n, The Continentals, highly touted annually, are as strong as ever, but Coach Robert McMurray was hoping for some breaks to keep Union hopes alive. IVO, wearenotthe MOSTGLAMORDUSJEWELER in t@wn, hut our selection of DIAMONDS, WATCHES, & JEWELRY wtllmatch any. I L L u s T R A T I 0 N DAl£ JEWELERS 163 JAY STREET SPECIAL STUDENT DISCOUNTS! OfEN til 9:00 TUES. & THURS. GRADUATING :-iE:'-JIORS majoring in CHEMISTRY ENGINEERING SCIENCE 372-0540 are invite<! to meet with our representative on <:ampus FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 6, 1970 Cont~ct your Placement Office for an appointment City of Detroit· Civil Service Commission student evaluation of courses and faculty teaching skills carried out at the end of each term, appealed to the Senate to direct the Tax Committee to appropriate a further $2400 to enable Linebacker to publish the results of the evaluation taken at the end of Students and Date The concert is students and dates charge. Miss Hens •I . the fall term, and the one to performance is the i the I 969-70 series recitals at the sponsored by organist and prof• music, Hugh Allen \\t IJ . ~ c-:o-_, ;~ t ...... •J ~ t) be taken at the end of this term. An evaluation of the Spring, 1969 courses was published this fall under a grant of $1500 from Student Tax. Choir Direct< Miss Henshaw is and choir director at First Presbyterian C addition, she Schenectady's T Music a 1 Club Blue guitarist B.B. King will appear in the IV February 14, as the highlight of Winter Weekend. 1 at the door. King, who after more than twenty years of on' has come into national prominence in the last fe Modern Blues. Kings combines a true blues feeli electric guitar, which he calls \LuCJile\ is an inte listeners are well aware. King's latest single now ran

PAGE4 Schmi Resigns College Post Continued from Page 1 ventured the opm10n that Schmid lamented, \I wanted to basketball duties, Sclunid perhapsSchrnidhadnotgiven arealsolid:winner.Not12-10 has coached both the himslef enough time. or 11-10, 'l)ut 17 or 18 wins.\ offensive and defensive Schimd, said, hovever, that The garnet have not had a Garret football units. he is \an impatient person;\ winning season since Schmid has recruited some He was named to the varsity 1963-64. fine players while varsity basketball post two years ago 1 'He now figures that his basketball mentor, including and in his first season the plan for l't.oop improvement star sophomore Jim Tedisco, team managed only eight has been set back several and freshmen Mike Doyle and wins in 20 starts. years. But he adds, \I can't Tom Bacher. Bacher is not Last winter the hoopsters wait threeor four years.\ playing this season while surprised one and all by Schmid, :JJ.owever, has no concentrating on his studies. winning 10 of 21 games. regrets over his eight years Schmid pointed o l!l t They missed the ICAC spent here. A 1956 graduate somewhat dejectedly, championship by only three of CorneR, he coached however, that \there are points, losing to R.P.I. 50-47 high-school ball in upstate some fine basketball players in the title game before the New York. for seven years, walking around the campus largest Field House crowd' in compiling an 84-19 record that should be part of the ten years. including three section five program.\ Schmid figured that this. championship teams and his T i m i n g pI a y e d a n year was to be atleast an over 1957-58 A.von, N.Y. squad, important part in Schmid's .500 season, while next year which posted a perfect 2I-Q announcement. \There's no would be '\'the year to fly,\ season. sense in putting it off six The Garnet mentor's. He came to Union in months or a year,\ he said. optimism was in keeping witlt 1962, and in five years of \I'm quitting now so Union his personal goal of steady coaching .tihe frosh hoopsters can decide what it wants to improvement that he set for compiled a 4-5-19 slate. He is do.\ In this way, according to the team three seasons age:>. 18-23 in his two years of Schmid, the Garnet will not \By my fourth season.\ varsity tutelage. In addition lose a recruiting year. . - . Tough Hamilton Downs Sw'im ' . By BRUCE GARBER In what was definitely the most exciting meet of the season, Coach Robe·rt McMurray's swimmers fell before a Ham i It on powerhouse 56-46. In suffering their second defeat of the winter, the Dutchmen's record dropped to3-2-l. The first event, the 400 yard medley relay, saw McMurrary change his regulars in favor of Ga1y Needel, Alex Bodenstab, Bruce Goldberg, and B0b Szatrowski. The deviation was planned to save the Track Here Sat. Several Memorial Field House records are expected to tumble tomorrow when the Union track team hosts Springfield, Hamilton and Lehigh in a quadrangular meet scheduled for 1 p.m. The feature event of the day should be the 600 yard run with four entrantshaving times below the field house mark of 1 : 14.5. The best on paper is Hamilton's Kevin Gilbert with a I: I3.5. Union's Rich Jaszczak has a I: I4, and has beaten Gilbert, while Hamilton's Pete Tylenda has done 1: 14.I and Lehigh·' s Bob Gulash, I: 14.3. TEACHERS NEEDED Teaching opportunities for. beginning and experienced candidates in private schools coast to coast. Education courses not required. Write. SCHOOL SERVICE BUREAU: Post Office Box 278K Windsor, Connecticut 06095 Tel: 203 - 688-6409 ' . regulars f10r future events, because Htrn.ilton's usual first relay was unbeatable. To McMurray':s dismay, however, the C orll inentals also switched nnen, and as a result won the event. In an at t€mpt to make up the deficit, McMurray swam his top me-n in the following events. Except for Burt Yankiver's win in the 200 freestyle, the squad was thwarted jn the next six races. Captain Dave Seward was hande8 a. second place in a judge's decision in the 50 yard freestyle. John Lmdwig was defeated for the fir~t time in the . diving, as his Hamilton opponent nosed him out by a mere six points. Freshman butterfly star Steve Hill was touched out for first in the next race, the 200-fly. Needel revtved the team with a searing 2: 19.6 clocking in _the 200-yard backstroke. Yankiver kept the momentum by taking the century freestyle in 51.7 seconds. A sweep in the 500 yard free put the Continentals over the top, despite a quick second by Bodenstab in the breaststroke, and a seven point win by Yankiver, Seward, Hill, and Szatrowski in the freestyle relay. Send a LoveBundle for Valentine's Week. Why squeeze a lot of Love into just one- day? Order a Love Bundle to arrive early. I( s .a unique arrangement designed tQI stretch Valentine's Day into a week. Because the flowers will last. A special Valentine. Only at FTD florists. At a special price. Usually available at $12 50* less than • Ask for it ~As an indlependent businessman, each FTD Member Florist sets his· own pr-ices. FEBRUARY 6, 1970 Hoopsters Host Two Foes By GREG HAMLIN Jim Tedisco poured in 36 points and Dave Shames had a season high of 21, but their stellar efforts were not enough as Union suffered a 106-98 Tuesday night defeat at the hands of Trinity. The loss was the 11th for the Garnet in 13 games this season. Super seph Tedisco, who was making his first appearance .since he sprained his ankle against Kings Point, hit on 16 field goals and 4 free throws in the contest. His 36 points gave him a season total of 359 points and a per game average of 27.6. The 5'8\ dynamo needs to average only 15.8 points per game in the remaining nine games if he is to break Toby Lustig's 1963-64 season record of 500 tallies. The Dutchmen quintet will host Clarkson and St. Lawrence on Friday and Saturday, respectively. The Golden Horde, led by 6-2 sophomore Pete Ganl'ey, stand 1·9 on the year. Ganley is averaging 27 points per game. On Saturday, the Garnet face a 9-2 St. Lawrence five. Leading scorer for the Larries is 6-2 Greg Lawrence. The Junior sharpshooter boasts a 26.5 mark. 9 iamonds L---..;;:_-:......1 go straight to the heart on Valentine's Day FROM $1.50 Use your Master Charge Card . Graubart & Sons (Schenectady's famous diamond shop. for three generations) 166 Jay St. Thr('<' Union Graduates in Family -- vo Blue next Sa Wee ken King in Soutl the last King c1 playing. integral aware. nation\1\1 By K Tenn b ord eri Th.irt) impoveri than $3,( Dr. J of the B1 New Yo1 students Styles' Ed. class 1 and D 1 t· yesterd; 1 ''·malnu1 America~ diseases.' A fJII \Hunger preceded visually the regi America the wide~ San t I 400,000 living ~ 100,000 1 american time. A~ malnouri these p entirely tortillas, rarely sec in protei1 Acco Malnutri1 among t malnouri to show mental brain dat severe re

1970 had a as of this .since and total of on by 6-2 eraging Junior I 'I j I VOLUME, 99 NO. 37 SCHENECTADY, NEW YORK, FEBRUARY 10, 1970 PRICE TWENTY CENTS Blue guitarist B.B. King will appear in the Memorial Chapel next Saturday night, February 14, as the highlight of Winter Weekend. Tickets are $3.25 in advance and $3.50 at the door. King, who after more than twenty years of one-night stands in Southern black bars, has come into national prominence in the last few years, is often called the Father of Modern Blues. King combines a true blues feeling with virtuoso guitar playing. His electric guitar, which he calls \Lucile\ is an integral part of his performance, as pop listeners are well aware. King's latest single now ranks in the top thirty nationwide. Systems Analysis Topic ~y~EI!,!;E~kly f~~P.~ ty~y~~ in~b~!\ Frederick Hartwig, a take positions of leadership Twenty Union professors skipped lunch Friday to listen to a political scientist explain his discipli:lles concept of \system a·pproaches\ to them. And tho-ugh most of the material covered in the faculty seminar series is directly from the undergraduate curriculum, the aim of the five-part program is the development of interdisciplinary agreement on the nature of \systems analysis\ so that men from different academic backgrounds will be able to communicate with each other in the College's new Ph.D. program in Administrative and Engineering Systems. political science instructor, and' abk to communicate gave the third presentation in across disciplines,\ Dr. the series Friday. He had BeVier said. b·een preceded by a The concept ofthesystem mechanicalengineer,Dr.Fred is common to many Haag, and an ecologist, Dr. disciplines but each uses the Carl George. After John \syst~ms vocabulary\ a bit MeN am ara presents the differently. ,. economists' view of systems Three Schools analysis February 20th, all Mr. Hart wig's lecture four will present a panel discussed three schools of discussion March 6th to thought in political science, define their common ground. which regard different The series is open to phenomena to be the \basic faculty and students. It is unit of behavior.\ Roles, held in Social Sciences 115, i n t e r a c t i o n s, and the \Hall of the Presidents.\ communications are these Dr. William BeVier, a basic units for each of three mechanical eng i·n e er, different systems approaches. organized the seminar series Explaining the structural because the new graduate functionalism school, whose program in Administrative basic unit is that of \role Malnutrition Found Endemic and Engineering Systems is which is defined as an \not conventional and needs expected pattern of behavior, definition. But it isn't the job such as the role legislator, From Coast to Coast in U.S. of just one discipline to try to lobbyist, or judge. Sets of define the goals of this roles which are related to one program.\ another consistute a By KEVIN ROBERTS malnourished families start has shown that diseases Convinced that the .• structure, such as Congress Ten million Americans are bordering on Starvation. Th.irty million are impoverished, earning less than $3,000 a year. Dr. J.H. Browe, Director of the Bureau of Nutrition of New York State, speaking to students of Dr. 'Twitty J. Styles' Junior Year Comp. Ed. class, \Nutrition Health, and Disease\ declared yesterday afternoon that \malnutrition is one of Americas most widespread diseases.\ A film by CBS, entitled \Hunger in America,\ which preceded Dr. Browe's talk, visually illustrated a few of the regions of hunger in America that are typical of the widespread condition .. San Antonio, Texas, has 400,000 mexican americans living in shanty houses; 1 00,000 of the mexican americans are hungry all the time. As is typical of the malnourishment in America these people exist almost entirely on starches such as tortillas, beans and rice and ~arely see foods that are high m protein. Critical According to Browe, Malnutrition is most critical among the very young. The malnourished young are liable to show poor physical and mental development with brain damage one of the most severe results. \People in the out in nutritional ruts that caused by malnutrition nation's problems today are which is a collection of roles they never got out of and the thought t(> exist only in too complex to be solved called 'senator' and system just repeats itself,\ Africa and Asia are actually Browe said. prevalent in the United only by men with intense 'representative' Mr. Other areas of hunger in States. preparation in one field, the Hartwig said. America are Appalachia, the Dr. Browe indicated that Union Ph.D. pwgram's \A senator is not playing a deep South, and the Southwest. Recent research C~.ztinued on Page 3 graduates will receive broad political role when he is inter-disciplinary training. telling bedtime stories to his Murphy,SniderLeadViet Vigil :~;r,~~~~r~:~·~;:::,~~ By M. PAUL ANDREWS with the college are always who mamfest no reactiOn at In addition to their Every Thursday from noon to 1 p.m. a group of persons gathers beneath a flag bearing a peace symbol and an American flag at the top of State Street downtown in Veteran's Memorial Park. The sign on the banking firm down the street may read 6 degrees or 46. There may be 10 people; there may be 30. Some have been coming for the past few weeks; others for the past few years. They have been coming to the weekly peace vigil sponsored by the Schenectady Clergy and Laymen Concerned About Vietnam. Some are housewives, some businessmen; some are young, some middle-aged, some elderly. Some, but not as many as there might be, are Union College students. TWo persons afHliated there. Father James Murphy, all to the group do look; the concern for defining the aims campus Catholic chaplain, vigil is hard to miss in its of Union's new Ph.D. and David Snider, college strategic location. program, the seminar coordinator of religious Participants seldom feel that participants are also planning activities, nuely miss a vigil. they have been ignored or to make a presentation at the At most however there unrecognized. April 22nd \preserve your are 10 Union College The vigil is not held to environment\ nationwide students. soothe guilty consciences; its teach-in. It is a silent vigil. Each m o t iva t i o n is n o t . Professor Neil Cutler P erson takes a ten-to-fifteen s,e I f- right e o us . The - 11 WI speak on Thursday, minute turn reading the participants come because February 12 t 7:45 on names of tlle war dead. One they believe the war can be \The Generation Gap and person hold.s a poster listing ended and that it can be Its Effects on Foreign the latest vrar-death count; ended through their Policy.\ The talk, two others hold a large individual effort. 'They come s P on so red by the out of belief in and International RelatiOns banner a11nouncing the commitment to t.het·r f h bl Th Club, will be held in the purposeo t·eassem y. e purpose. OldCh fl h 1 h f · apel. ags are e d at eac end o The hour passes quickly, Cutler is a graduate of the single-file line of even in cold and rain. Each Northwestern, where he demonstrators. week· the last name read is also received his Masters Occasionaly someone in a marked in the thickpamphlet d(l.gree. He did his Ph.D. pas sing car will indicate containing the names of all work at the Oak Ridge disagreement with the group's the war dead; usually Father A T o m i c P o we r purpose by gesturing or Murphy will end the vigil by Laboratory. frowning~ More often sayipg: \Let's all hope we Prof. Cutlerispresently don't have to be here next serving as a member of the sympathizers will wave the week.\ · d h k th · Foreign Pdlicy Research peace s1gn an on eu But ther. e will be a vigil at 1 sh I d · h Center at the University of 1om to ow so i anty wit noon the day after tomo·rrow p ennsylvania. the grotip. But even those i~ Veteran's ~emorial Park.

PAGE 2 ·Blither On Thursday, February 12, at 4:30 pH1, in S.S. 115 Professors Herman and Kershner of the Economics Department and. Professor Nichols of tlle Political Science Department will host a discussion on .the topic: \What is development and its ingredients with a focus on Latin Americ11.'' The discussion will be very informal and the faculty and student body are all invited to attend. Wine will be served. There will be materials on display in the library that may be helpful in familiarizing yourself with. the topic. A leading photographic studio will be on campus Feb ru ar y 23 througll. February 26- All seniors who want formal port:raits for the yearbook, gra.d11ate school., family, etc. sll.ould make an appointment in th.e student activities office as soon as possible. It took u11til the mid-19th Century for a world population of o11e billion, 80 years for th.e second billion, 3.0 years for the third. At ou:r present growth rate we will have six Wllion people by the year 2000. Overpopulation is everyone's problem. Professors George and Willison will be speaking about po pula.tion, biith control, and other' pertinent questions at Delta Chi, 6:45 p.m., Wednes<la.y, February 11. Be there_ The PYE Club will meet tomorrow, Wednesday Feb. 11, at 4:3() p.m. in SS llO. The Sch.el'l.ectady County Council of Churches announces the formation ofa functional Congregation which wi 11 work ()fi environmental problems. The initial meeting of this group will he Thursday, February 12, at 7:30 p.m. in the Garden Lo1.1age of the First Methodist Church, 603 State Street, in Schenectady. Parking is ava:ilable off ChaJ>el Street at tb.e rear of the church. A Functiona.l Congregation is one organized around a .cl>mrnon concern. Any member of the Schenectacl.y C()mmunity who is aware of the crisis in tbe quality of our environment and is interested in doing something a.bC>ut it at the local level is invited to attend the mee till~. Especially welcome are representatives from the conservation organizations, PYE chapters, and other ecology acti<Jn groups who are preparing for the National Environment Teach-In on April 22nd. Re\1. l>omld H. Brandt, First .MetiH»dist Church 474-4403 Deo1111E Orvis, Environment Educalh:m Coordinator 3!J9~5485 · FEBHUARY i 0, 1970 FEBRUAF Socialist To Speak Letter to the Editor I~~: About Middle East .~~.~~.~;:::,·d John Ro'thchild, Socialist Worker's Party candidate for Lt. Govemor, will appear in SS 016 on Wednesday, February 11 at 4:00, to speak on \The Crisis in the Middle East.\ Middle East situation. The Young Socialist Alliance is a revolutionary youth organization working toward a social-ist transformation of American Society. It supports the blacks' right to self· determination, and an immediate withdrawal of troops from Vietnam. We are sorry if we gave the ·college community the ·impression that we are critical of the Social Committee. We fully appreciate the commendable work this organization has done this year. Rather, we were satirizing the social atmc.:>sphere of Union College. lt is our contention that were the Beatles, the Ringling Brothers Barnum and &ailey Circus, and the entire chorus line of Little Sheba's belly dancers to be poresent simultaneously, Union would somehow make it a \Dead Weekend.\ Rothchild is currently Regional Organizer and a member of the National Committee of the Young Socialist Alliance. He was the Youth Coordinator for the April, 1967 Ann Arb_or, Michigan demonstration against the Vietnam war. In 1969 he was the SWP candidate fox judge in the Philadelphia municipial elections. He has spoken at numerous campuses on the Eugene Wigner, Nobel Prize winner for physics in 1963, will speak on ''The Attitude of Present Science Toward the Problem of Life,\ at 11 :30 a.m., on Tuesday, February 17. ScottSimollS '72 Kenneth Brooks '72 Douglas Canfield '72 Fifth Monthly DeadWeekend Committee co-chairmen Speaking to the nonspecialist, Dr. Wigner attempts to forecast what future research in his field will mean to both the scientist and the layman. His talk is sponsored by the Committee on Convocations, Lectures, and Films. Published Tuesday and Friday during 1he School year by the Student Body of• Union College, Schenectady, N.Y. National Advertising Reprosentative: National E ducat!onal Advertising Service, Inc., College Publishers Reprosentative. 360 Lexingto11 Avenue, N.Y.C. Editorial Office, Old Gym, Union College. Fublication Office, Whitehurst Printing & Binding Co., Inc .. 416·418 Fifth Ave., Troy, 235·4450 .. Entered in the Schenectady Post Office as SIICond Class Mail Matter. Subscription 20 cents a copy; $6 a year delivered anywhere in the United States. Henry G. Fein William Ouzer Editors-in-Chief Pete.r J. We ingold ...... , .......... Managing Editor Jeff Bim .................. -: .... BusiJ.Jess Manager William J. Holleran .................. Spurts Editor Jody Saslow .................. Photography Editor M. Paul Andrews ....... , ....... Contributing Editor Richard Patterson .............. Contributing Editor NeilS. Kramer ........ , .......... Editor Emeritus Staff: Robert ·A. Levine, Danny Shocket. David Uguccioni, Louis Snltkoff, Tony Paga, Doug Wang. M. Gmssman, Mike Gottlieb, John Harrigan. Peter •Bickerman,Kevin Roberts,Michelle Vottis, Lloyd Sims, Michael Swirsky, Neil Green, Douglas Tosh, George Kaplan, Ozar!P~ Long. Marg Slzugo/1, Greg Hamlin, Mike Humber, Dennis A/s('from, Stu Moss, Bruce Garber. Hank Levine. Dave Cunrey DOUGLAS Sc}ICII£'ctaJy 's l.caJI!Ig .\1m's Shne Store BOSTONIAN *BATES* WALL-STREETER HUSH PUPPIES* WALK·O'WER \SEBAGQ.MOCS MANSFIELD *SNOW & AFTER SKI BOOTS Phone FR 4·8577 319 State Street Schenectady, N. Y. $1 OFF PURCHASE OF SHOES UPON 1\RESENTATION OF I. D. CARD THE RIGHT PERSON IN THE RIGHT CAREER This is more than our Motto - it's our Promise to you. We're constantly in conta~1 with the Nation's most Progressive Firms and we know where the openings are both locally & nationally. Stop in at our modern offices. We're here to help you, Most positions are fee paid. \? iamonds L---..;;;_---1 go straight to the heart on Valentine's Day FROM $1.50 Ust> your !\laster Charge Card Graubart & Sons (Sehenel'tady's famous diamond shop. for three generations) 166 Jay St. Three Union Graduates in Family J The H in its ftrs seasonov1 suffered a defeats. varsity d1 5·1 Frida while t' Hockey 0 Garnet, afternoon 0 Minute face-off game, the they were They had times sin1 found th1 after the: unable t< game. The C the scoril initial sta forward 1 puck in · walked in net-rninde and scorec Li· Chris C for the D1 assists frc Hastings a McEnerne little to sl after that The C Rome, l\ Hung Con tim federaJ distrib comrnodi programs of the a1 not in it Moreover not a Vl counties needed m Dr. attende< conferenc poverty i make re Preside conferet that a emergenc: that a gu $5,500, f be establ that admi transferre AgricultUJ R GoveJ recently on the T program county ir establisl prograrr commodi guideline: Dr. the mere not enou have to understat proper m of Agr organized aides\ wl as nutriti< Dr. l \the onl problerr involved,

1'970 were belly Dead '72 ks '72 '72 ekend + l J FEBRUARY 10 .. 1970 PAGE3 Hamilton,Utica Top Pucksten y,ellowiack:et Swi,mmers Set Medlev Ma~rk Here By Bill HOLLERAN The Hookey Club skated in its fust ke a.ction of the season over the weekend, and suffered apa.ir o'f embarassing defeats. H~tmilton's junior varsity dumped the skaters 5-1 Friday night in Clinton, while th.e Utica College Hockey Olu!) manhandled the Garnet, &-2 , @n Saturday afternoon. OLI.t<Jf Shape Minutes a.fter. the opening face-off m the Hamilton game, the Dutchmen realized they were sadly out of shape. They had practiced only six times since November, and found themselves worn out after the first period of play, unable to play their best game. The Continentals opened the scoring at 4:51 of the initial stan:z!t, as a Hamilton forwatd picked up a loose puck in front of the cage, walked in all alone on Garnet net-minder Dick Brickley, and scored £rom ten feet out. Little to Show Chris G'N-eil tied the score for the Dutchmen at 9:59, on assists from Linemate Brad Hastings and defenseman Tim McEnerney, but there was little to show for the Garnet after that point. The Gamet traveled to Rome, N.Y. on Saturday Hunger Strikes Continu~!l from Page 1 federal program of distributing surplus commodities, and food stamp programs result in an increase of the amount of food but not in its nutritional value. Moreover, these programs are not available in many counties where they are needed most. Dr. Browe recently attended a nationwide conference on hunger and poverty ill America set up to make recommendations to President Nixon. The conference recommended that a state of natio~al emergency be declared and that a guantnteed income of $5,500, for a family of four be established. And further, that administrative power be transferred from the Dept. of Agriculture to HE)V. Rocky's Road Governor Rockefeller recently proposed a \Food on the TabLe Program.\ This program would require every county in New York State to establish either a food program or a surplus commodities program along guidelines s~t by the state. Dr. Browe said, \that the mere provision of food is not enougl)., the poor people have to be educated to understand the principles of proper nu 1rition.\ The Dept. of Agriculture recently organized a program of \food aides\ which wlll train people as nutritional counselors. Dr. Browe stated that, \the only way to solve the problem is through an mvolved citizenry.\ afternoon for the Utica contest. The Pioneers wasted no time in disposing of the Dutchmen, scoring with only 20 seconds ;gone in the first period and racing to a 3-0 bulge after only eight minutes of play. The Garnet flurried briefly at the start of the second ,period, tallying on a two-on-one break, but Utica, peppering the Union net, hit for three rnore .goals in the second stanza. Goaltender Brickley was not sharp in either contest, although he made 28 saves in the Hamilton game and kicked out 50 shots in the Utica tilt. Minor Injuries A rash of minor injuries hampered the pucksters in both contests. In the Hamilton game, defensemen Rick Miller suffered .a five-stitch cut about the eyes, while Torn Goss, who was knocked oat after a collision early :in the first period, spent Friday night in the Hamilton infrrmary and did not play on Saturday. Right-wing Jim Glidden aggravated a leg bruise in the Utica contest. By BRU~E GARBER Opening .Saturday's swimming meet with an intimidating win of 3:59-.6 in the 400-yard medley relay, which established a new Feote Pool' record, the University of Rochester nailed Union for its thud consecutive loss, 56-41i. Boasting both speed and depth, the Yellowjackets followed up their opening triumph by sweeping three of the next five events. Even_ stalwart Burt Yankiver was held to a second-place in the ope!llng onslaught, as he snatched the three-pointer in the 200-yard freestyle. Captain Dave Seward tock the 50-yard freestyle in an outstanding 23.7 seconds, t<> put the Gamet in the 5-point column. .After diving, in which Rochester's state champ and his backup man swept up Union's John Ludwig, Seward gave it everything in the century freestyle, only to be touched out at the wall. His time, 52;6, was his season's b~st, but it was still one-tenth of a second too slow. Sophomore backstroke star Gary Needell followed by churning in an impressive 2:20 in his speciality, but the win wasn'tenough. to keep the 'Jacl<ets from going over the top. A career with a social conscience: an explanation and an invitation to career-seeking graduates. What's a career with a social <:CJnscience? Quite simply, one that offers responsibility and chal- lenge on the one hand. And S()cial involvement and commitment on the other. One that can be financially satisfying without sacrific- ing emotional values. One where progress is based on performance and merit. In sh.ort, the kind of rewarding career that a company like Prudential offers you. Our basic business, of course_, is to protect the basic unit of society-the family. But we've extended our social involvement to helping fight urban decay and unemployment. By investing in new busine$ses and new factories. By providing funds for low-cost housing. And, in addition~ our people provide the leadership required to build hospitals, colleges_, and libraries. In short, Prudential is concerned with not just life itself, but with the quality of life. This is the kind of company we are. And nCJt by chance, but by choice. If you're a socially-conscious graduate, we'd like to have you join us. In marketing, management, invest- ments, applied computer technology, accounting, sales, or actual'ial areas. Drop into your college Placement Office. Find out when the Prudential reprEsentative is scheduled to visit your campus. Then m.ake an appointment to talk t() him about a career tha.t offers both tangible and intangible rewards. The Prudential Insurance ~ Company of America an equal opportunity employer

PAGE4 Matmen Upset Bx St. Lawrence 23-9 St. Lawrence scored an 23-9 mat upset over the Gamet on Friday, highlighting the weekend's Union wtestling activity. The Dutchmen ·bounced back on Saturday, however, downing the Golden Knights of Clarkson, 27-11. The grapplers' record now stands at 5-2. The Garnet could manage conly three wins versus the Larries, as Jeff Knetzer (150), Naysim Simon (167), and Bill Munno (126) scored decisions. Bill LaRock, St. Lawrence's 215-lb. unlimited star, notched his 37th straight varsity college triumph, decisioning the Garnet's Pete Kenyon, 7-4. Three forfeits helped the Dutchemn to their win in Saturday's match in Potsdam. Munno, Ron Ruhl, and Rich Burstein all collected forfeit victories, Burstein was fllling ill for injured freshman star Penn Sheldon, who is suffering from a collarbone ailment. Shut-out victories by Jeff Knetzer and Simon highlighted the match, as Knetzer scored an 8-0 triumph, and Simon blanked his opponent, 4-0. Andy Blumenthal, at 117, also picked up a win, out-wrestling his man 7-4. The Garnet are in desperate shape for this week's action, as injuries have struck the already thin Dutchmen ranks. The Garnet arc ~..:hcJulcJ tu face Dartmouth Ull WcJncsJay afternoon, at 3:15 in alumni gym, and Rochester on' Saturday. · - Ron Ruhl is out with an injured back, Phil Reed is suffering from a damaged knee, and Sheldon is due to miss at least another week of action while recovering from his collarbone injury. To add to coach Gerry Everling's depth woes, Bill Munno will not be able to wrestle on Wednesday afternoon against Dartmouth, as he will be taking his law boards. Frosh Cagers Upset Siena By HANK LEVINE Bouncing bake from a defeat at the hands of Albany Jr. College Friday night, the Garnet frosh handed a stunning upset to Siena Saturday. Both contests were played in the Fieldhouse. the last minute of play put the game on ice, which ended in the final Gamet victory, 82-79. Solid Effort Doyle and Mitchell finished with 28 and 2 I points, respectively. Coach Brown termed the game: \a solid team effort indicative of the type of basketball we are capable of.\ The frosh now stand at 3-6. WHAT IS MISSING IN THIS PICTURE? As sophomore stanc;!out guard Jim Tedisco goes up tovvard the hoop against St. Lawrence here Saturday night, he is surrounded by all five members of the Larrie squad. The Garnet's lack of height and muscle under the boards, which has been the principal problem this season, is evident as 6-2 Barry Fitzgerald is the only Dutchman awaiting the rebound. Tedisco was held to 17 points by the Larries, but he scored a Fieldhouse-~ecord 40 against Clarkson in the Garnet's 90-83 victory Friday night Hoop Splits Hom·e conteLSfNG By MARK SHUGOLL points, breaking by two the A record scoring performance by sophmore sensation Jim Tedisco lifted the Union basketball team to its third win of the season Friday night, 90-83 over Clarkson. The Garnet's recmd, however, slipped to 3-12 the following evening when they were overwhelmed by a strong St. Lawrence five, 84-60. Tedisco poured in 40 Memorial Fieldhouse record set six years ago by Union's Toby Lustig. The record shattering points came on a jump shot with 3:22 showing on the clock. Tedisco left the game shortly after to a tremendous ovation. The 5 '8\ star had previously claimed the single game scoring mark with a 44-point effort at Drew. However, the home court mark had escaped him until Friday night. The Dutchmen saw a 32-23 lead dwindle to 39-37 at the half. Tedisco was responsible for 25 of Union's halftime point total. ln the second half, Tedisco did not connect for his first points until nearly seven minutes had elapsed. The Garnet, meanwhile, were fighting off continued Clarkson bids to take command. Union was not assured of its win until the waning minutes of the ball game. . In the game against Albany Jr., the Gamet played a good first half and led at the midway point by three points. However, the powerful J.C.A. running attack and their strong bench strength were too much for the Gamet hoopstars as they went down to defeat 88-62. Thinclads Impress, PlaceThird On Saturday night, the Gamet ran into a talented St. Lawrence team and a tough zone defense. Tedisco was held scoreless for the first eleven minutes of play and finished with only 17 points. The remainder of the Union squad failed to pick up the scoring slack as not one other Dutchman hit double figures. Gloomy Outlook Saturday night was quite different, as the pre-game outlook was gloomy for the Union squad. Siena, led by Schenectady's Tony Delgado, had beaten Albany Jr. College 93-77 at home earlier in the season, and had beaten the Garnet by 17. Union, led by the fine play of Bobby Mitchell, kept pace with Siena throughout the first half, trailing by only three points, 41.38 at the intemtission. The ball club has tolded m the second halves of their games all season, but Saturday night was quite different. The Garnet fought back for a 74-73 lead with 2 :05 remaining in the game as guard Curtis Rowe put on a performance termed by Coach Brown· as the \best half of baske:thall all year.\ Doyle Ices Win Playing a tough defense and setting up their offense well, the freshmen showed good balance and depth. Mif.e Doyle's two key fo_ul shots in A strong showing in the distance reaces led a powerful track team from Lehigh to a convincing victory in the quadrangular track meet held Saturday in the Field House. The Engineers captured the first five spots in the two mile run and garnered firsts in the mile and 1000 yard events. The final score of the meet was Lehigh 58%, Springfield 35, Union 20~, and Hamilton 14. Top performers for the Garnet were Rich Jaszczak, Ed Rawley, Tim McCabe, Paul Forbes, Gray Watkins, and Ed Rossi. All-American Jaszczak copped the first of AC - DC Coach Art Lawrence requests all battery candidates for varsity and freshmen baseball to meet in his office next Monday, February 16, at 1 p;m. Union's two victories, winning the 600 in a near record time of 1:14.6. Freshman Ed Rawley cleared 6' 4\ while finishing third in the high jump. In doing so, he tied the Union record set last week by Mike Rich, who came in fourth against the stiff opposition. McCabe ran in one of the most competitive running events of the afternoon, the 1000 yard run. The frosh phenom ran to a 2:22.7, good for fourth place. The mile was also loaded with running talent. Paul Forbes finished fourth for the Dutchmen in the grueling race, recording a personal best of 4:35. Gray Watkins tied for second in the pole vault at 12'6\. The event was won in a Field House record of 14'. Rossi also did well for the Gamet, capturing two fourths in the 55 yard high hurdles and the long jump, respectively. The second Dutchmen victory was brought home by a fleet-footed mile relay team. Pete ·Ericson, Greg Hamlln, Alan Prysunka, and Jaszczak raced to a 3:40.4 clocking in their specialty. HOME TYPING AND SECRETARIAL SERVICE 377-6053 Rates: 30c per page for typing - $2.00 per hour for dictation Free: corrections cc, minor The Larries raced to a 3 8-25 halftime lead and broke the game open with a 19-0 outburst in the first five minutes of the second half. St. Lawrence, now 10-3, boasted four players in twin figures. Greg Lewis and Bill Jenkins led the quintet with 20 and 19 points respectively. On Thursday, Union returns to Connecticut to engage Wesleyan. The Garnet bowed to Trinity last week in Hartford. NEW YORK TO LONDON- SUMMER VACATION TRIPS ROUND TRIP $169. NOW FILLING- SMALL DEPOSIT AND PAYMENTS· SEND FOR FREE DETAILS. STUDENT GLOBE ROAMERS BOX 6575 HOLLYWOOD, FLORIDA 33021 VOLUME, 99 NO. 38 Fou11ded t SCHENECTAD' D Vi Les after fa cult length admit1 to t Divisi< report meetit Cutler Speaks To IRC Probes Generation Gap Af1 WRUC this questi calend preser, evalu~ askec seriou stud decisi1 N Th ex ten: partie the J Divisi1 tl By NEILS. KRAMER The often cited \generation gap\ between the current student aged group and their parents may be due more to the different \watershed\ events during their respective lifetimes rather than to the chronological differences in their ages. Dr. Neal Cutler explained his theory of \generational patterns in foreign policy opinions\ to about 100 Union students, most hardly .. younger than himself last night. He used Gallup public opinion polls from the years 1946 to 1966 to identify .the foreign policy attitudes of Americans. Dr. Cutler divided the population born from 1891 ' .;_; to 1925 into seven age-groups and analyzed each age-group's responses to Gallup Survey qaestionnaires at five year intervals over two decades. His study involves a sample of the population that corresponds people aged 45 to 79 today. This group is approxhnately the age of the parents and grandparents of most students at the Schenectady college. His data shows that the younger generational groups in his sample have been consistently more hawkish over the 20 year period he studied. They have been more expectant of war, have su pp orte d the increasing build-up of the American military establishment, and have been nnore congenial to cooperative military defense arrangements like NATO, SEATO, and bilateral defense pacts with nations like Vietnam and Korea. Since Dr. Cutler's research only charts generational patterns in foreign policy opinion and is not designed to identify the specific \watershed events, the headlines of the day\ which led to the formation of those opinions, he was wary of Continued on Pa15e 3 Kr: first two s give prop< that begiru Four Socia Develop By LOUIS SUTKOFF Professor Robert S. Herman, discussing the progress of developing nations in SSllS yesterday, criticized the American p o 1 icy of hypo c r a sy concerning foreign affairs. The discussion session, which also involved Professors Kershner, Nichols, and Finklestein centered about standards for er.onornic and political development. Professor Herman cited American arm shipments to Nigeria and sudden subsequent concern over starving Biafran children as an example of this hypocritic \double standard.\ Dr. Herman opened the talk by reviewing methods of measuring development, such as National Income and Gross National Product. He went on to say that these methods are not always accurate, because of the lack of means of measuring incomes in underdeveloped countries. Professor Kershner, characterizing the developing COUJ limi1 two the nati1 pro det Fin1 prol is n1 ana

PAGE 2 SOCIAL COMMITTEE Unless both the B. B. King concert this Saturday and the David Frye & Mason Prof.fit concert on the 28th are financial successes all concert plans for the spring will be cancelled. The Social Committee labels 'as a financial success any concert that comes reasonable close to breaking even. The reason for this is that the reserve fund of the Tax Committee which is used to back up all concert losses is at a dangerously low level. Currently there exists only $700 which the Social Committee may use. Therehas been an average loss on each concert this year of $260. It must be noted however that the losses have grown increasingly larger with almost every show. Mail Room There is something rotten in West College ... outside of the food. The situation at the Mail Room is intolerable. It is simply impossible to secure a package. Under the system that lurches along at present, when a package arrives at the Mail Room the addressee receives a slip informing him that his package is waiting for him there. According to the slip, he can pick up his package during the lunch hour when the mail is delivered, or from 7:30 to 8:00p.m. Monday thr<mgh Thrusday. The only problem is that the Mail Room is rarely open in the evening. Although men are assigned to duty there every night, they apparently feel it unnecessary to appear. Repeated complaints have brought no response. There are often as many as a dozen men who queue up in the West College lobby .waiting in vain for their own property, only to find the Mail Room locked. It may he argued that the Mail Room is still open during the lunch hour, but this time is inconvenient for almost everyone except the freshman who take their meal at West. Many upperclassmen are either in class or busy during the lunch period, and find it difficult to get to West. Furthermore, the distribution of packages at that hour slows the sorting of the mail. We realize the difficulty of getting the mail out quickly and efficiently every day. But that is no excuse for simply not doing a job. There is no reason why the Ma:il Room is closed night after night when it should be open. ~i(j'· .:;;).,;- .. ~ ~ t1T' ottror 17?. ,-:! •s ~ r\Qlft . .,.!,l& ~~.~J.· Published Tuesday and f'rlday during the School year by the Student Body of• Union College, Schenectady, N.Y. National Advertising Aepresantat iva: National Educational Advertising Service, Inc., College Publishers Representative. 360 Lexington Avenue, N. Y .C. Editorial Office. Old Gym, Union College. F-ublication Office, Whitehurst Printing & Binding Co .. Inc .. 416 41B Fifth Ave., Troy, 235-4450 .. E ntersd in the Schenectady Post Office as Second Class Mail Matter. Subscription 20 cents a copy, $6 a year delivered anywhere in the United States. Henry G. Fein Will~m Ouzer Editors-in-Chief Peter J. We ingold ................. Managing Editor Jeff Bim ....................... Business Manager William J. Holleran .................. Sporrs Ediwr Jody Saslow . . . . ............. Photography Editor M. Paul Andrews ............... Cuntributing Editor Richard Patterson .............. Contribu ling l:'dirur Neil S. Kramer ............... Editur Emeritus Staff: Robert A. Levine, Danny Shoclcet, Da1•id Ugucciuni, Louis Snltkoft: Tvny Faga. Doug Wung. fl,f. Grossman, Mike Goltlieh, John Hamgan. Peter 'ntckerman.Kevin Roberts/'.fichel/e Vott1s, Uoyd Bims, Mtchae/ Swirsky, Neil Green. Douglas Tosh, George Kaplan, OzarlP~ rang. Marg Shugoll, Greg flamltn, Mike Humber, Dennis Alseftvm, Stu Moss. Broce Garber, Hank Levine. Dave C.unrey FEBRUARY 13,197( Plans Welfare Rights Grou·p Albany Protest Mar~c:h Tues. Plans for a welfare protest \March on Albany\ were discussed last night at a meeting sponsored by the Social Action Committee. The meeting was address by Mrs. Gridelle, a member of the Schenectady Community Action Program and the National Welfare Rights Organization. She stated that the Albany March, scheduled for next Tuesday, February 17, is the culmination of a statewide effort designed to improve the plight of welfare recipients. The New York State Welfare Rights Movement has issued a position paper outlining the demands it is presenting to the State Legislature. The first demand is for a $5500 a year income fl<:>or for all families without accompanying increased taxes on lower and middle income groups. Another demand is that the very rich and the corporations should shoulder more of the tax burden. At present, according to the welfare group, individual taxes account for 41% of state revenues while business taxes supply only 15% of state moneys, and have not been raised in ten years. The welfare organization also asks for such reforms as a re!nstatement of special grants to welfare recipients, food for the poor supplied through free school lunch and breakfast programs, an end to the food stamp program in favor of direct money grants, a restoration of state Medicaid cuts, an end to discrimination against welfa:t:e recipients in housing, and the creation of a statewide affidavit system for welfare applications. The Albany protest march is scheduled to begin at 9:30 Tuesday morning. Plans have been made to enter several government lmUdings, including the legislative chambers and the StateS ocial , Service· Department !building. In the words of Mrs. Cridelle, \We (the marchers) will not ~ . · leave until we get a defini·te answer,\ me·a ning a · sympathetic response from Gov. Rockefeller. A:1l those interested in joining the N.W.RO. caravan to Albany should come to 711 Hamilton Street, or call 377-8866. Skip Mowry Chosen New Pres. Of SSAC By MICHELLE VOTTIS Running unopposed, Skip Mowry was unanimously elected president of the Student Social Action Committee, last Tuesday afternoon in Silliman Hall. Despite the fact that he fllls the position of president, Mr. Mowry said he is \not interested in getting bogged down in any beaucratic structures\. He expressed his wish that the committee \serve as a common meeting ground where every student with suggestions can unhesitatingly participate.\ Roger Sherman, Committee Coordinator, has requested the presence of Senator Charles G eodaJl on the campus to initiate a constructive pregram for· ; peace advocates. February 21, at Syracuse University there wm be a war moratorium committee convention coordilla ting all inter·state campus moratorium action. Two representative from Union will attend. Wigner, Nobel Winner Speaks On Science Concluding the meeting was Mr. Mowry's quote from the New National Mobilisation Committee's survey on anti-draft attitudes. He quoted, '\the genera1 feeling from th.ese contacts was that because of the confusion caused by the v lottery and the sl()W pace of troop withdrawal from Viet Nam. · Nobel Prize-winning physicist Eugene Wigner, whose lectures on science in layman's terms have drawn nationwide acclaim, will speak here Tusday . Dr. Wigner's address, \Attitudes of Modern Science Toward Problems of Life,\ will deal with the question of applying known physical laws to understand the origin and nature of life. The lecture is set for 11:30 a.m. in SS 016. A former colleague of Albert Einstein and Enrico Fermi, Dr. Wigner was awarded the coveted Nobel Prize in 1963 \for contributions to theoretical atomic and nuclear physics.\ A native of Hungary, he came to the United States in 1930 and was appointed to the faculty of Princeton University, where he is presently professor of P H 0 F E ~ ~ I tJ '\j r\ L T\ PI\(; ~El{\'ICE. I I~ \I ;..; ,. I 1· • I r i 1· t~ pt'\Hi ln. 1-:qtllppt·d \\ 1Lh ( .n·d .. and \lath :-\ 11d>ok lotH dwi<'l' (;r t~p~· :-t;lt·. E\.fHTil'lll't'd ill IIH':-:i:- 1) pi11~. Pid\ up and d t' I i \ ,. r ' . C a I I 489·697B a;1~ timl'. physics. He has served as director of the American Nuclear Society and president of the American Physical Society. Dr. Wigm has received every major award in his field, including the Atoms for Peace A ward in recognition of his contribution toward the peaceful uses of atomic energy. Phone 37 PARK PIZZERIA FREE DELIIIERY Italian Gri11ders Our Specialty Behind Davidse»n Hall· One Block from the Campus 25 Park Place Schenectady~ N.Y. ~-----------------;f!b NEW YORK TO LONDON -SUMMER VACATIONTRIPS ROUND TRIP $169. NOW FILLING· SMALL DEPOSIT AND PAYMENTS- SEND FOR FREE DETAILS. STUDENT GLOBE ROAMERS BOX 6575 HOLLYWOOD, FLORIDA 33021 Peter Pause 535 Nott Street _, FEBRU He By .R In 1 creative films Gradu• recentl) genius, product quite similar The Stu den will be 1970 ~ House t h 0 S I particii The tournm 3 are a~ 1. .f Meyers 2. Steve I~ 3. I Usher 4. ~ Vergitt A studio Febr Februl want J yearbc family appoir activit possib: \'\W I Uni 8:3 for ma1 con Fel

13, 197( several dings, e Social not~ definite ing a from in caravan orne to or call n has of on a for· ) be a war all am pus Two Union meeting from general contacts of the by the g pace of Viet · ·~ lA Hall· Campus b .;; _j J FEBRUARY 13, 1970 ~.~I!:~J~ Y.~~ ~~~~ ~. P!~l.J!~~~~i~btu~~~~.~!~ m~aEs flawless, rs sue~ a film. expect their love affairs to housewife says ''love is In an ear of extremely creative, meaningful, original films ranging from The Graduate to the most recently acclaimed fete of genius, MASH any film that is produced must indeed be quite deserving to garner similar praise. The Happy ~chard Brooks, wnter :and resemble those of Bogart and e r a z y'' intermittently duec~or of the fllm, has Bergman in Casablan«fll. Life throughout the fllm, Brooks d e s 1 g n e d a 1 o o s e 1 Y •is not like what one sees in is alluding to Bogart's now constructed, smoothly the movies and anyone who famous \Here's to You Kid.\ flowing tapestry of vignettes exJlects it to be is eventually At times however, in between centered around the most going to have a rude the cliches a statement of basic institution in America·: awakenin!l. ,great soci~logical relevance mar:dage. Brooks achieves this idea leaks out. Blither The next session of the Student-Faculty Bridge Club will be held on February 24, 1970 at 8 p.m. in the Hale House Faculty Lounge. All t h o s e in t•e r e s t e d in participating are welcome. The results of the last tournament held on February 3 are as follows: 1. Ray Coco and Dennis Meyers 2. Mike Fishman and Steve Kirshner 3. Prof. Ketchum and Mr. Usher 4. Mr. Miller and Mr. Vergith A leading photographic studio will be on campus February 23 through February 26. All seniors who want formal portraits for the yearbook, graduate school, family, etc. should make an appointment in the student activities office as soon as possible. The basic plot revolves in a masterful and an around the turmoil of a extremely entertaining Denver, Colorado housewife manner. He most obviously who is totally bored withher demonstrates his point by station in life. When after 16 using the Denver housewife years of marriage her life to exemplify it. This however simply doesn't stack up to is merely the beginning. The the tife she sees on the' late entire story itself is strictly late show, she can no :Jonger the type of movie that people bear to continue followi11g viewing it do consider the her routine. Throughout the norm of life! It is film she becomes an melodramatic, tearjerking, alcoholic, attempts suicide, and most of all, exagger1ted leaves her family and flies to to the nth degree-\but--lt is Nassau, and eventually exactly the type of film returns to Denver, getting a people watch and compare job and living by herself in a their lives to. All of the two .room apartment. Now of characters spew forth line course, any fllm enthusiast, after line of cliched tripe that upon hearing his description, has been handed down from can understandably wince film to film since the early and question exactly why a thirties. The musical score by fllm such as this deserves any Michel Legrand is a menage praise at all. Well, I quite of countless movie themes agree that if this were all The that a film buff can easily say Happy Ending had to offer, a he's heard before, but just person would be much wiser can't think of their names. to stay home and watch the There is even a theme song of Edge of Night or the Secret love, nicely situated in four Storm. Fortunately, there is parts of tl1e fJJ.m, that bears quite a bit more to The an uncanny resemblance to Happy Ending than this thin, As Time Goes By (from a p parent 1 y o v e ru sed, Casablanca). The camerawork melodramatic plot. is all standard as it should be First of all, Brooks with glossy color communicates an extremely photography during the interesting thesis. He offers appropriate scenes. the idea that many Americans (like the Denven Housewife), h av in g been weened 011 \movies\, consider the lives of people in such films to be It is, however, difficult to determine where Richard Brook's put-on .ends, where the tongue and cheek, p 1 a y f u 1 , b u t c h i ding exaggeration stops, and the statements the characters make become meaningful comments on society. Profs Debate Growth Peril control of family size before mandatory control becomes necessary. \Planned Parenthood,\ said Klemm, \tries to aid people in becoming parents. The organization can help prospective parents to have children or to control the size of their family. We are not concerned with ethical, moral questions. We are concerned only with the parent's right to have only wanted children.\ B.B. KING: The famed blues guitarist will appear at Union's spacious Memorial Chapel, Saturday night. The 8:30 'performance costs $3.25 for Union Students or $3.50 for outsiders or at the door. In order to get more young people involved in the Activities of Planned Parenthood the organization has enlisted the help of Steve Berrick, a junior at Union, who will organize a contingent of students to help in the crusade against overpopulation. Berrick, who helped in a presentation of birth control devices by Prof. George, announced plans to try to organize a permanent Planned Parenthood outlet on campus. The latest production of the college Social Committee marks its seventh for the year. For a statement by the committee see page 2. And, of course ...... David Frye and Masson Proffitt, February 28. ·· The actors and the · .actresses Brooks has engaged are a II extremely effective. Jean Simmons (Brool(s' wife) :!)lays the Denver housewife vvith just the right .r.omanticism tempered ()Ccassionally by shellshocked :reactions to reality. John !Forsythe as her husband, the typical American guy trying .to move up in the W()rld, and e:xtremely satisfied with the average family life, acts in just the corny way to be viewed as high camp. Always ready with a smile, spouting tile words \I love you\ like he was memorizing them for a test, he couldn't come off better. Shirley Jones who ,portrays a college educated 'professional mistress, has a sweet midwestern just · !JOing-over-the-hill beauty and the self assured air of a girl vvho knows life. She plays it to its stereotyped best. The ()ther actors and actresses all play their caricatures with !Jreat showmanship. Miss Fabray is particularly mmusing as a sort of girl :Friday who undo~btedly read Webster's Cliches of the Thirties, Forties and Fifties. The film could be .tightened up a. bit with a little more objective editing, because after a while the flowing vignettes do flow too freely. This is particularly detrimental in regard to some of the later flashback scenes. In the overall picture, however, the flaws in The Happy Ending seem minor when the numerous elements of genius prominent in all aspects of the fJlm are taken into consideration. It is doubtful that anyone vvill appreciate the nusnces of the film as much as the film buff, but general audiences might enjoy the film for just the reasons and precisely the manner Brooks theorized they should. ~---------------------- DIAMANTE'S EAioy Ovr Fine Home Cooked Italian Food in Our Comfortable Dining Room Opp. The Brownell Gate on Nott Street Open Daily 10 to 1 A.M. Sundays 5 P.M. to 1 A.M. PAGE3 Soc Sci overgeneralizing from his data. When a student pointed out that the group born in the period 1896 to 1900, and therefore likely to have been too young for service in World War One and too old for combat service in World WAr Two, eemed markedly less militaristic than other generational groups, Dr. Cutler congratulated him on his insight but cautioned him against using only the survey data he presented to support that hypothesis. A graduate of U .C.L.A. with a doctorate from North western, Dr. Cutler teaches at the University of Pennsylvania, where he is a member of the Foreign Policy Research Institute. His talk was sponsored by the college's International Relations Club. Cutler Probes Generation Gap as we had promised them last June,\ he said. Spencer, a member of the student tax committee and vice president of the student body, explained that inflation has so crippled the student activities budget that ther~ is not enough money to proVide for the publication of the course evaluation. He added that since the course evaluation involves the allocation of only student money, \it is basically a student affair.\ A Class Killed Charles Olton disagreed . \The faculty is already involved in this,\ he said. \If I'm going to kill the better part of my last class, then I want a copy of the product.\ In other action, the Soc. Sci. faculty voted 10-1 with three abstentions to recommend that the Faculty Council create a committee on committees to make faculty appointments to college committees. Each division would elect one member of the committee to serve for a two-year term. The election of these committee members would create \a greater degree of faculty participation in college decision-making,\ Dean Martin Lichterman said. Perhaps envious of the plastic-coated student identification cards with color pictures, the Division discussed the possibility of obtaining similar cards for themselves. Mr. Allen was directed to write President Martin on behalf of the Division in this regard. Peter Prosper, chairman of the Liason Committ•, revealed that that group was also in the process of having ID cards made available to fa.culty members.

PAGE4 SIAMESE TWINS? Al1hough it might look like it, the shot above isn()t one of the Siamese twins. It's freshman grappler John DeSaix (at left) tying up his 118 Darmouth foe, Paul lnashima, in their match here Wednesday. DeSaix pinned lnashima at 7:()5 in his first varsity appearance. The Garnet, aided by three Darmouth forfiets, rolled to an easy 31-13 vic1ory. Photo hy JODY SASLOW Grapplers RollOver Indians By Bl LL HOLLERAN An injury-ridden Garnet wrestling team battled its way to a 31-13 win over Dartmouth Wednesday a1ternoon in Alumni Gym, upping its record to 6-2 in the process. Three key Garnet performers, freshmen stars Phil Reed and Penn Sheldon, and senior Ron Ruhl all were sidelined because of various ailments. Three forfeits by Dartmouth aided by the Gamet considerably in the win, as Len Solemen (126), Jeff Knetzer (150), and Andy Blumenthal (190) picked up the wins. The forfeits enabled the Gamet to keep pace with Partmoth in the early going, as the Dutchmen clung to a slim 15-13 edge at one point--1 0 of those tallies the result of Dartmouth forfeits. Freshman John DeSaix, Ruhl's replacement at 118, led off the action for the Garnet. Wrestling in his first varsity meet, DeSaix fought off a stall by his opponent, tieing him up and pinning him at 7:05. After Solomon picked up his forfeit win at 126, the Indians' Bob Elliot stunned the crowd by pinning Garnet star Bill Munno. Munno, who had been wrestling at 118 or 126, moved up a weight class to 134 and was simply overpowered by Elliot, one of Dartmouth's best wrestlers. Munno had lost only once in three years of varsity dual-meet competition, and had never even come close to being pinned. Wednesday afternoon was different, however. Munno started out quickly, moving into a 4-1 lead after one period. He was leading 4-3 in the second period, but after trying for a reversal he was caugh.t on his back. Munno struggled out of one near-pin situation, but Elliot, who outweighed Munno by about ten pounds, stayed with him and registered the fall at 3:40. Paul Douglas also scored a pin for the Indians, putting Rich Burstein (142) to the mat at 2:36. Ar Brown, at 158, grabbed the only oilier Dartmouth victory, edging Larry Bloom 5-4 on riding time. Bloom led 4-3 throughout most of the last half of the bout, but simply could not get off the bottom in the third period. 167-pound dynamo Naysim Simon kept his opponent, John Musser, in deep trouble throughout their match, showing fine moves on the way to an impressive . 11-0 victory. Gary Morris, at 177, also overwhelmed his man, decisionmg Steve Toze 7-1. Only an escapte by T oze in the last seconds of the bout averted the shutout. Strongman Pete Kenyon broyght the cr()wd to its feet with a pin in the heavyweight match, as he lowered the boom on his adversary at 5:5 3. Kenyon leads the Dutclunen squad in pins with three. The Dutchmen will face Rochester this Saturday afternoon, starting at 2:30 p.m. in Alumni Gym. Sheldon, Reed, and Ruhl are once again doubtful starters. Hoop Statistics G FG FGA PLAYER Tedisco 15 159 391 Shames 15 47 101 Gallucci 15 41 93 Eichinger 15 40 93 Getman 14 32 105 Pezzano 15 27 49 Goldberg 15 24 52 Fitzgerald 14 19 58 FG FGA % Union 427 1052 40.5 Opponents 483 1061 45.5 THE PEANUT STORE % FT 41 98 47 21 44 20 43 16 30 4 55 13 46 13 33 18 FT 231 300 Featuring PLANTERS HOT ROASTED PEANUTS and Nutmeats from all OYet the world. 406 STATE ST. FTA % REB Asst PtsAvg 145 68 55 35 416 17.7 32 66 53 44 115 7.7 47 43 197 6 102 6.8 18 89 51 7 96 6.4 10 40 73 15 68 4.9 25 52 48 7 67 4.5 13 52 35 6 61 4.1 25 72 35 I 56 4.0 PTA. %REB AVG PTS A.VG 378 61.7 710 47.3 1084 72.3 423 70.5 763 50.9 1222 81.5 Pennel Esso N otf .Street Comer 0 f VanVranken FEBRUARY 13, 1970 Tedisco She:ets at Record As Hoo 1 pste:rs Play Awa·y' By MARK SHUGOLL The Union basketball team takes the road this week as it travels to Wesleyan and Stevens, with backcourt ace Jim Tedisco in pursuit of still another record. The 5'8\ star scored 93 points in three games last week, including a· Memorial Fieldhouse record of 40 against Clarkson. Tedisco has now scored 416 points, only 84 short ·Of the single seaso11 mark held by Toby Lustig. The sophmorc, averaging 17.7 points per game, has eight games remaining to exceed the record. Also within grasp of Tedisco are season marks for most field goals and most free throws. He is 35 short of the record of 184 in the former category and 34 away from the foul shooting mark. Both records are presently held by Lustig. Rit Gallucci has been setting a sort of mark himself. At 6'3\ he is considered an extremely short center by college basketball standards. Gallucci, however, has rebounded in double figures in Union's last 12 ball games, while going up against much taller records. Rit Rebounds He has led the Garnet in the rebounding statistic in all but the opening game against Middlebury, when Jim Getman took the honors. Last weekend, Gallucci tallied 23 rebounds, falling just two short of the Union record set by Al Duncker in 1958 versus Rochester. The 3·12 Dutchmen have been yielding points at a 81.5 average while .producing a positive statistic of 72.3. Shooting statistics show a 40.5 per cent output from the floor and only a 61.1 percentage from the foul line. On Saturday Union visits Stevens Tech. Th.e horne team, which plays an abreviated 13-game season, KING'S ATLANTIC SERVICE STATION 717 Noft Street We C afcr To Un,on Students l0°o Service D1scount displays a 3-8 record. 6' 1\ sophmore Art Keltos leads the Stutemen in scoring with a 20-point average while 6'4'' junior Art Durham has chipped in for 10 points a game. Union leads in the series that dates back to \ 1926, winning 23 of 42 games. Wesleyan Trip Last evening, the Garnet traveled to Wesleyan looking for their fourth win of the season. The Cardinals boast a 9·3 slate, having lost to Trinity on Tuesday 85-8.!. Union bowed to the same Trinity team earlier in the season by a 106·98 score. The Garnet are 18-22 in this series dating back to 1912. Next Tuesday Union travels to Rochester before returning home to host Utica College on Thursday night. Saturday evening, the Garnet face traditional foe R.P.I. The Union freshman, who ran their record to 3-6 with a stunning win over highly regarded Siena last weekend, returned to action in the preliminary game against the Wesleyan frosh on Thursday. BASEBALL Coach Art Lawrence requests that all battery candidates for varsity and freshmen baseball report to his office for a short meeting on Monday, February 16, at 1 p.m. Inteview the mall from Huyck on February 23. He just may have your career in his portfolio. Big enough for oppor- tunity, small enough for recognitior1. HUYCK FELT COMPANY. LUIGI'S RESTAURANT SPECIMIZING IN Italian • American Food 1125 BARRETT ST. Schenectady 01 6-9744 Enjoy Sinling Steo!s 11nd Chops Visit Our Cockt11il Bar VOLUME, .99 NO. 39 SCHENECTADY, NEW VORl<, FEBRUARY 1 C()median-Satirist David Frye will headline the next presentation of the College Social Committee, Saturday, February 28th. Tickets for the Concer-t, which will also favor the very popular Mason Proffit, will go on sale later this week. News Features Applicat' For Ca1 Appli,ations arc now av a ilablc in the StULlcnt Ac 1 ivi tics OITi.:c f11r four Committee,. Two of ·th-:sc ar-: studen t gruups, wh ilc the others are fur posts on juint Studcnt·Fawlty wmmittccs. Two of tl1e three posts on the Student Tax Committee are now accepting applicants. The committee handles all financial communications with the various student activities, arranges for individual budget hearings, and keeps a journal of these hearings. The group records allocations from the Student Tax Fund, and prepares budget reports for the Student Senate at least once a term. The Secretary must be a member of the Class of 1972, because he will be Chairman when he becomes a senior. Applications are also being accepted from the Class of 1971 for the post of Senior Member ofthe Committee. Film And Drama: What's Next? presently offered, \merely whets the students' appetite\ stated Mr. Well. \There should definitely be more courses to satisfy the student seriously interested in drama. Such courses could include theatre design, and construction of scenery and lighting, playwriting, and theatre criticism.\ ByMICI-lELLE VOTTIS Reflecting growing discontent with the lack of a major in the dramatic arts, or films production, many students and professors are beginning to look into the possibility of such programs or possible alternatives. Robert Levine, president !}f ~·the film workshop, an organization begun six years ago, through which students can produce their own fJlms, ,~J stated that \we live in a ftlm-oriented culture; film presentation is obviously the greatest means of communication today. Everybody should know something about an art so prevalent in our society.\ Badly Needed Funds The fllrn workshop, largely ,. student run, and previously in very bad financial straits, was recently given $1 ,000 by the Tax Committee. Levine stated that the high cost of equipment, lighting, and processing, would dispel the possibility of several fllm production courses at Union. \However he commented, \courses in film history or studies of presentation methods and techniques should be seriously considered by the administration. The 1 courses could even be in kinship with the literary criticism course presently offered by the English department.\ Mr. Levine also suggested hiring an English professor with knowledge of the film arts thereby doubling his value to the campus. For those interested in viewing fmished productions by the workshop, there will be a showing Wednesday Feb. 25, in the 3rd floor lounge of Richmond House, at 7:30 p.m. During an informal discussion, Professor Arnold Bittleman, of the art department, stated that he was aware of the student demand for ftlm courses on campus, and that he was looking into possible programs. He stated that \if ftlm courses were combined with presently offered fine arts courses, a film major could thereby be structured.\ With regard to a dramatics major, Mr. Hemy Well of the drama department stated that, \'it would be an impossible task for one man. Another instructor for the department was supposed to have been hired a year ago. Now, there is no chance of hiring another instructor before the fall of 1971. Another person in the department would also broaden the range of perspective offered a student, exposing him to another set of interpretations and opinions lle side mine.\ The drama program When asked about ftlm courses Mr. Well responded that he hopes to be teaching a Comp. Ed. course on Alfred Hitchcock next year. \,. Rosemary Syk through final reh Mandrake. This comedy, 1 most extensive dn of sets, costumes a For further infc

E2 To the Editors: Despite the wide-spread belief and acceptance in the superiority of the automobile over the human legs and feet as a mode of transportation, some of the backwards, unsophisticated members of the college community still prefer to use their own feeble energy to get from one point to another on campus. This mentally impoverished group continually infringes upon the rights of those with more intelligent preferences by walking on the roadways of the campus. These foot travellers don't seem to want to yield lu the higher i11terests of the automobile, and when they do. only after a cmci.U confrontation. Letters To The Editor A particularly sensitive area of conl1i<.: t, and the reason for this letter. is the thoroughfare connecting North and South Terrace Lane. Some of the typically \'out nf it\ students still believe that it is asidewalk that nms along the terrace wall in front of library field. I ashamedly confess that 1 myself was in this ca teg01y. However last Sunday night I had the hitherto unrealized insight into the obvious, that this was actually a roatlway. For the fourth time this term I had been walking on this particular st rdch of con~rete when 1 noti<.:cd an automohile approaching. As in neared the flagpole. I realized tha l if I didn't step :1~rue I. might injure th.c ca1's front end (perhaps dcntrng the hood, at the very least spilling some of my blood and flesh on the car and causing the driver either to suffer the embarrassment of an unsightly mess or to incur the expense of a car-wash.) Fortunately I did step aside; however I believe I caused the driver to slow down and thus increased his travel time. I might even had endangered his safety if his breaking had caused the car to skid, since he was tra¥elling rather fast and the road was snowy and slippery. I didn't get the make of the car or its license number. The ref ore 1 would personally like to apologize to him now, and also to the at least three other people who I hve, since January, inconvenienced by my boorish inconsiderateness. I would also like to, 1.) announce to similarly uninformed fellow foot travellers that this cement way along the terrace wa!J, connecting North and South Colleges, is a road for the exclusive passage of automobiles, and 2.) uvge them to give up their own selfish interests and stay eff of it! Marl< l<rejci'71 ~icr- ,.:j..._, .... \.) t. Qlonr.or 17 i:,~! 9 , C0''1'(1 ~~.~J.· Publ1she(j Tue~ay ~nd Frit;lay during the School year by the Student BOdy of• Union College. Schenectady. N Y. National Advertosong Representatove Natoonal Educational Advertosing Service. Inc., Collega Publishers Raprasentatove 360 Lexington Avenue, N.Y. C. Edotoroal Offoce. Old G'im. U noon College F-ubil<atoon 0 ffoce. Whitehurst Pron tong & Bondong Co .. Inc 416 418 F dth Ave. Troy. 235 4450 Entered on the Schenectady Post Offoce as Second Class Maol Matter Subscriptoon 20 cents a copy. $6 a year delovered anywhere on the U noted States Henry G. Fein William Ouzer Peter J. Weingold Jeff Bim . William J. Holleran Jody Saslow M. Paul Andrews ... Richard Patterso11 . Neil S. Kramer Editors-in-Chief . Managing 1-.'c.lltor Busmcss Manager Sports l-.'du or Photos;raphv l-.'dttor Con trt bu tmg 1-. cltt nr Cuntnbutmg l:clttoor t.\ditor l:\mentus Staff Ruhat A I evme. Danm· Shock.et. Dai'IJ Uguccwm. /.r:~urs SnltJ...njj. tun 1 Faga. [), •ug l\'ong .1[. Grossman, .'l.ltk.e (;oflltch. John Hamgan. Pcft\r 'Btckerman,Ktvin Roberts,fl.fiChclle ~ r •llts. /.iovJ Htms. Mrchael Swtrs.io'. /'wt'i/ Green. Douglas Tosh, Georxr Kaplan. Char/£'~ f.ung .. Harg Shugoll. Grt'g llamltn. !Itt kc Hum her, Den IllS A Is( •lrunr, Stu .\'foss. Bruce Garb a, Hank. I cvuu· Dal'c (, Jftrey Tothe Editors: The B. B. King concert calil. only be described in superlatives. King himself is a seasoned musician and his performance was augmented by his warm rapport with the audience. Bob Michaelson and the Social Committee should be commended gt;eatly for the success of tl1e concert. They have worked diligently in the preparation of past events and for the King concert were under extreme pressure to assure its financial success. 1 l1ope last Saturday will serve as an indication to tl1e Social Committee of the musical preferences of the Union students and also as an affirmation of the students' desire to patronize such concerts. Neil A. Green, '71 To the Editors: Ths is to remind the freshman class that we do have HOME TYPING AND SECRETARIAL SERVICE 377-6053 Rates: 30c per page for typing · $2.00 per hour for dictation Free: cc, minor conections Inteview the man from Huyck on February 23. He just may have yom career in his portfolio. Big enough for • oppor- tunity, small enough for recognition. HUYCK COMPANY. FELT class officers; who, by the way, were elected for what they said they were going to do for the class. This is a partial list of what the officers have done since they were elected some five weeks ago ... End of list. Did they ever really take office; did they ever set up any sort of government? This is to remind our officers that they did say they were going to do something--of course, that was when they were running for office. 1 t appears that many of us w e r e r i g h t when we questioned the true necessity of a freshman government. So far, our asswmption has been prove quite correct. Wiliam Miller '73 FEBRUARY 17, 1970: Dr (.ounseling On Saturday February 28, a (Jra.ft counselor training [Jrogram is scheduled to be held ilt Union. The morning and a:fterneon sessions will be ciirected by a worker from the Capital Area Feace Center. Persons taking part will be expected to do some advance ·reading and to attend both sessions. Those learning to counsel should 'be willing to devote time to counseling in the area after the training session. Since tile group must be kept small, tllere are a limited number ot· openings. If you are interested in becoming · a draft counselor or would like further information, contact David Snider in Silliman Hall or Ken Schroeder, 377-0067. Mountebanks To Perform \The Mandrake,\ A Comedy The Mountebanks are presenting Machiavelli's The Ma ndral<e this coming weekend and next weekend: T ursday, Friday, and Saturday, February 19, 20, 21, 26, 27, and 28, at 8:45 p.m. in the Nott Memorial Theatre. The set was professionally designed and will be the most elaborate in recent Mountebank history. Eric Bentley, famed author and theater critic wrote in an article in a recent edition of the New York Times that The Mandrake was one of five JAN 1 2 3 4 5 6 FEB 1 2 3 4 5 6 plays he would most like to see fevived because \Machiavelli holds the key not only to Nixon, but also to Kinsey.\ It was benned by the Catholic Church when it first appeared- a ban which has stuck to this day. Admission to the play is free to Union students and is $ 1.00 for their dates. The box office is open from 1-5 p.m. Tickets may be only 165 seats at each performance and students are urged to reserve seats early. MAR 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 BE A WINNER!! NO MATTER WHAT DAY YOU WERE BORN JOIN AFR.OTC If you have 2 years of College left (grad or undergrad), AFRO TC at Union College has a 2-year Commissioning program that will pay you while you're still in school and even offers Free Flyin{J Lessons (if you qualify). BUT DON'T DELAY- DEAD Ll NE FOR APP LI- GATIONS -1 MARCH 70 Come visit with AFROTC at Hoadley House or Call374-6523 for mj)re infonnation DON'TTAKEACHANCEON A LOTTERY PLAN YOUR FUTURE- YOURSELF JOIN AFROTC 0 i 0 0 ·IJ 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 '0 0 • • ' . FE Ofi MC 11~ Ro Da1 l Lm Pro Sec l -Pr l j Sec TIJ ~ 11 -in 4 j Cra • Pro J inr 4 4 ] Me l 4 llC

1970 28,a beheld and be the be both to to in must are a coming like dy see chiavelli only to .\ by the it first has play is and is The box 1-5 p.m. seats and reserve RN ROTC that will Flyin!J _I 0 0 ·IJ 0 Q 0 0 0 0 0 ~ 0 ·o 0 0, • • FEBRUARY 17, 1970 Conflicts ,in examinations should be reported to Mrs. De Groff in the Office of the Registrar 11ot later than Friday, March 6, 1970. BH-Bailey Hall BU-Butterfield Hall CH-Carnegie Hall BE-Electrical Engineering Bldg. GL-Geology Laboratory HI-I- Hoadley House HU-Humanities Building OC-Old Chapel PL-Physics Laboratory PY-Psychology Laboratory SL-Schaffer Library SS-Social Sciences Building IVIONDAY,MARCH 16 9:00-11 :OOA.M. Economics 31 (Microecenomic Analysis)· in SS 0 14-Mr. Bryant English 13 (Major American Authors) -in HU 115 -Prof. Niemeyer English 54(Shakespeare: The Later Plays) -inHU 116 -ProfMurphy History 14 (Emergence efModern America)- in SS 115- Prof. Jonas History 35 (European Soeiety in the Early Modern Era)- in SS 010 ·Prof. Hansen History 52 (English Social and Intellectual History, 1660-1760) in SS 117 ·Prof. N. Allen Chinese 11 (Basic Chlnese II) - in HU 0 16 -Prof. Woo French II (Basic French II)- in SS 016- Prof. Thomas German 10 (Basic German I)- in HU 117 -Mr. Stangl Russian 11 (Basic Russian II) - in HU 11 0 -Prof. West on Philosophy lO(Introduction to Philosophy) -in IIU 114 ·Mr. Foster Sociology 12 (Human Society II)- in SS 112 -Mr. R. Nelsen Biology 14 (Origin and Diversity of Animals· Core I)- in BH 308 ·Prof. Roth Biology 15 (Continuity of Life- Core IV)· in BH 304- Profs. Butzel and Dalgleish Biology 44 (Cytology) -inBH 307- Prof. Roth Chemistry 30 (Organic Chemistry I ) · in BU 201 · Prof. Sowa Mathematics 32 (Abstract Algebra I)- inCH 207 ·Prof. Roulier Mathematics 41 (Topics in Applied Mathematics)· inCH 210- Prof. Loughlin E. 20(Rigid-Body Mechanics) -inCH 111-Prof. Be Vier E. 30(Mechanics of Deformable Solids)- inCH 301-Mr. Pikul 2:00-4:00 P.M. Economics 11 (Elementary Economics, Part II) Section 1 - in SS 117 - Prof. Thimm, Section 2- in SS 115- Mr. McNamara English 11 (The English Literary Tradition: Augustan and Romantic) Section 1 -in HU 114- Prof. Murphy, Section 2- in HU 115 -Prof. Freund Political Scence 11 (The American Political System) Section 1 -in SS 016 -Prof. W. Daniels, Section 2- in SS 016- Mr. Hartwig M.E. 43 (Fluid Dynamics)- inCH 11-Prof. Shane brook C.S. 12 (Fortran Programming) Section 1 -inCH 201 - Mrs. Connan, Section 2- in EE 22- Prof. Bisishko TUESDAY, MARCH 17 9:00A.M. -11:00 A~M. Comp. Ed. 11 (Freshman Commons in Science and Engineering) Section 11 - inCH 206- Prof. Riley, Section 91 -in HU 114 ·Prof. Bishko, Section 92 - in PL 1 OS -Prof W. Schwarz Comp. Ed. 29 (East Asian Ideas and Ideologies)- in SS 016 -Mr. Thurston Comp. Ed. 58 (Problem Solving)-inCH 201-Prof.Stone Comp. Ed. 61 (Human Ecology)- in BU 201- Dr. Rozendaal Comp. Ed. 67 (Perspectives on Computer Larrguages) · in PL 202 -Prof. Craig Comp. Ed. 68 (Engineering Control Systems and Cybernetics)· in EE 24- Prof. Russ German 12 (Basic German III) -in HU 11 7- Mr. Stangl Physics 33 (Electricity and Magnetism II)- inPL 1 04-Prof. Wylen E.E. 32 (Analysis of Electronic Devices)- in EE 16 -Prof. Hoffman 2:00P.M.- 4:00P.M. Drama 17 (Theories ofDirecting)-in HU 116 ·Mr. Weil Drama 22 (History of the Theatre: Medieval through Late Restoration)- inHU 16-Mr. Well Greek 11 (Principles of Greek)- in HU 117 -Mr. Ross Greek30(Homer)-inHU 17 -Mr. Ross Econontics l 0 (Elementa1y Economics, Part I) Section I -in SS 016 ·Mr. Me Namara, Section 2 -in SS 016 -Mr. Bryant English 65 (Modern Poetry)· inHU 016 -Mr. Peck . German 31 (Readings from 18th and 19th Century Literature)- in HU 1l 0 · Mr. Stangl ' Spanish 11 (Basic Spanish II)· in HU 115 -Mrs. Rawe . Biology 12 (Cell Biology -Core II)- in BH 308 ·Profs. Butzel and Urban Chentist:ry 36 (Physical Chemistry I)- in BU 201-Prof. Fishman Geology 50 (Geophysics) -in GL 24-Prof. Katz Physics 11 (Mechanics) Section 1- in PL 202- Prof. Titus, Section 2 -in PAGE3 PL 202 -Prof. Grunwald, Section 3 ·inCH 201 -Prof. Hooverman,Section4 - in'PL 202 ·Prof. G run wal d ,Physics 22(Electronic Circuits)- in PL 106 ·Prof. Henry WEDNESDAY, MARCH 18 9:00A.M.- 11:00 A.M. Comp. Ed. 11 (Freshman Commons in Science and Engineering) Section 10 ·in EE 1 -Prof. Miller Music 31 (Music of the Baroque Era, 1600-17 50) - in HU 019 -Prof. H. Wilson Latin 11 (Latin Reading I)- in HU 112 -Mr. Ross Latin 40 (Latin Prose Composition)-in HU 119 ·Prof. Reece English 43 (Comedy)- in HU 114-Prof. Niemeyer English 51 (Chaucer)- in HU 116-Prof. Murphy History 11 (The New Nation: The U.S., 1765-1815)- in SS 115- Prof. Olton History 38 (Conservatism, Liberalism, and Socialism in Late 19th Century Europe -1848-1914)- in SS 117 -Prof. Hansen Russian 31 (Advanced Russian 1)- in HU 110 -Prof. Weston Political Science 10 (Comparative Political Analysis) -in SS 1 L2 -Prof. Board Statistics 10 (Introduction) Section 1 ·in PY 113- Mrs. Hesse, Section 2- in SS016-Mr. Oksoy Biology 49 (Biophysical Aspects of Cell Physiology)- in BH 307 -Prof. Lambert Biology 50 (Evolutionary Biology)- in BH 308- Prof. Dalgleish Biology 56 (Animal Organogenesis)- in BH 304 -Prof. Rappaport Chemistry 10 (Fundamental Chemistry I) - in BU 201 - llrofs. W. Martin and Maycock Chemistry 48 (Radiochentistry)- in BU 201 ·Prof. Weick Mathematics 14 (Calculus III)- inCH 201 ·Mr. Behan Physics 15 (Quantum Effects and Fundamentals of Modern Physics)- in PL 204-Prof. Goble Physics 46 (Nuclear Physics)- in PL 105 -Prof. Pilcher Psychology 31 (Abnormal Psy«hology) · in·PL 202-Prof. Pearce A. S. 30 (Growth and Development of Aerospace Power I)- in HH -Col. McGee 2:00P.M. -4:00P;M. Music 34 (The Origins of the 20th Century Music)- in HU 019 -Prof. H. Wilson Economics 40 (Labor Economics)- in SS 13- Mr. Prosper English67 (Modern Drama)- in HU 1·15 -Prof. Ullmann History 58 (Russia in the Imperial Age)- in SS 014- Mr. Berk Philosophy 20(Classical Logic)- in SS 016 -Prof. Peterson Political Science 43 (Latin American Political Systems)- in SS 012 ·Mr. Nichols Political Science 45 (The Cltinese Political System) - in SS 117 ·Mr. Thurston Political Science 51 (American Foreign,Policy)- inSS 112 -Prof. Gati Sociology 1 O(Human Society I)- in SS 115- Mr. Willison Chemistry 12 (Fundamental Chemistry II)· in BU 201 -Profs. J. Daniels, Maycock, Schaefer Geology 51 (Oceanography)- in GL 24- Prof. Katz Psychology 24 (Social Psychology)- in PL 202- Prof. Calabria E. 11 (Systems,Computers and Design· II) Section 1 and 2- inCH 304- Prof. Ma1e, Sections 3 and 4- in EE 22- Prof. Goodheart, Sections 5 and 6 -in CH 301 -Prof. Eisenstadt, Sections 7 and 8- in EE 22- Prof. Driscoll THRUSDAY, MARCH 19 9:00-11 :OOA.M. Economics 25 (Principles of Accounting)- in OC- Mr. Malik Economics 41 (Monetary Econontics)- in SS 15 -Prof. Behrens History 76 (Modern Japan)- in SS 012 -Mr. Thurston History 88 (Economic Development of Underdeveloped Countries)- in SS 113 -Prof. Finkelstein French 30 (Readings in Contemporary French Literature)- in HU 112- Prof. Roberts French 31 (A General View of French Literature)- in HU 110- Prof. Le Clerc German41 (Enlightenment and 18thCenturyClassicism)-inHU 119- Prof. Warde Spanish 31 (Introduction to Spanish-American Literature) - in HU 014 - Mrs. Rawe Philosophy 11 (PhilosophicalClassics)-inHU 114-Mr. Foster Philosophy 21 (Symbolic Logic)-in HU 116-Mr. Ludwig Political Science 12 (International Politics) -in SS 016 -Prof. Gati Political Science 67 (Negro Policies in America)- in SS 014 -Prof. W. Daniels Sociology(The Urban Community)-inSS 112 -Mr. R. Nelsen Chemistry 31 (Organic Chemistry II)- in BU 201- Profs. W. Martin and Sheffer Geology 12 (Mineralogy I)-in GL 24- Prof. Whitney Mathe rna tics 30 (Ordinary Differential Equations) Section 1- inCH 206- Prof. Leach, Section 2- il1 CH 201 -Prof. Seiken M athematic!l38 (Multivaria ble Calculus I)- i.ri CH 207 -Prof. Bick E.E. 41 (Energy Conversion)- in EE 16. Prof. Goodheart ·

PAGE 4 2: 0() ·4:00P.M. ·LA.134(0rganizationa1 Theory)-i.nSS 112-Pr1 · - · and.Thimm French 33 (The French Language in Practical Use J) • iJl HU 112-Prof. Thomas French 42 (The Age of Voltaire) - in HU 110 -Prof. LeClerc Mathematics 10 (Calculus I) Section 1 - in EE 22 - Mrs. C(lrman, Section 2- in EE 22- Prof. Madclaus Mathematics 12 (Calculus II) Section 1 - in EE 22 - Prof. Maddaus, Section 2 -inCH 201 -Prof. Ballard, Section 3- in SS 1 1'5- Prof. Gillette, Section 4- in HU 115- Prof. Roulier, Section 5 ·in BU 201 -Mr. Riley, Section 6 ·in BU 201- Prof. Stone, Section 7- in BU 201- Prof. Loughlin :Psychology 30 (Theory of Personality) -in PY 113 ·Prof. Stockin E. 22 (Science of Engineering Materials)- in PL 202- Prof. Leary C.E. 41 (Legal Aspects of Engineering)- inCH 301 -Prof. Harlow C.S. 30 (Algorithmic Languages and Compilers)- in EE 16 · Mr. Stearns FRIDAY, MARCH 20 9:00-11:00A.M. Classics 13 (History of Rome: TheE!Ilpire) ·in HU 115- Prof. Reece Economics 38 (Quantitative Methods in Economics I)- in SS Ol2- Mr. Frey Engli&h 60 (The Early Romantics) -inHU 016 -Prof. Freund History 82 (Sub-Saharan Africa in the 19th Century) in SS 113-Prof. C. Holmes Chinese 31 (Modern Chinese II)- in HU 116 -Prof. Woo Chinese 41 (Modern Expository Cltinese II)- in HU 116- Prof. Wo German 11 (Basic German II)- in HU 114-Prof. Warde Biology 80 (Biochemistry I)- in BH 307 -Prof. Miroff Chemistry 34 (Quantitative Chemistry) - in BU 20 1 -Prof. Schaefer Mathematics 28 (Probability)- inCH 206- Prof. Gillette Psychology 10 (A First Course in Psychology) Section 1 -in FL 202 - Prof. Huntley, Section 2 · in PL 202 - Prof. Girdner, Section 3 -in SS 115 -Prof. Calabria E.E. 44(Electromagnetic Theory)- in EE 16 -Prof.Craig M.R. 41 (Systems Dynamics and Control) - inCH 110- Prof. Aubrey C.S. 24(Applied Linear Algebra)-inCH 207 -Mr. Strait A.S. 02 (Introduction to Aerospace Stdies) -in HH- Major Terranella :2:00-4:00 P.M. Comp. Ed. 28 (The Moral Dilemmas of Governing)· in SS 012 -Mr. Nichols History 60 (The Russian Revolution and the New Regime)· jn SS 113- Mr. Berk French 12 (Basic French Ill)- inSS016 -Prof. Roberts German 33 (The German Language in Practical Use I)- in HU 114 -Prof. Klemm Spanish 12 (Basic Spanish III) - in HU 115 -Mrs. Astiz Philosophy 31 (Medieval Philosophy) - in Phi Beta Kappa Room,SL-Prof. Tolan C.E. 43 (Envivironmental Engineering) - in CH 304 ·Prof. Harlow Office of the Registrar February 1970 FEBRUARY 17, 1970 \Just because somebody gets an A in college :doesn't make him the greatest .man in the U,nited States, because maybe his A's will stop when he gets his dip~oma, and the fellow who got C's in school will go on later to get the real A's in life.\ Norman Vincent Peale AN INTERVIEW IS LIKE A BLIND DATE. You invest some time and effort. And once in a while, you come up with a great relationship. Many engineers find a truly rewarding relationship begins in an interview with the Carrier Air Conditioning Company representative. He's looking for a particular kind of engineer. One who will bring to work a mature brand of enthusiasm for taking things apart to see what makes them tick. We'll help you turn that talent into the ability to design, make, and market air conditioning units of every conceivable nature. Equipment that cools everything from a bedroom to an Astrodome. We're the largest manufacturer of air conditioning products in the world. And we're looking for the new men who will keep us at the head of the pack. We need Product Development Engineers. Production Engineers. Sales Engineers. Service Engineers. You might be one of them. Talk to our representative. He'll be on campus ... TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 24, 1970. CARRIER AIR CONDITIONING COMPANY A Divi.sion of Carri.er Corporation SYRACUSE, NEW YORK An Equal Opportunity Employer A Plans for Progress Company •p J • ') ;y .. s ., } FEBA By LJ unprE cons hap pi talen1 plot · and movie has s< is not funn~ n gener the A Us tin reall serge; consi imp1 grOUJ he ta State and e Guar Tl excu carle: theb theP and a b a confJ depa funn Arne myp TJ its be bits not insta both move the led dist relat joke: and eith~ com: T indh also Ust rom obsc Ast] per rer Ho. Nat [Un }Onl is e<

•p J • ) ') ., ) FEBRUARY 17, 1970 ''Viva Max''; An An~:us.i.ng, Hap,pily Silly Moti.on P.icture By LANGE 'FALDUCCIWITZ '\Viva Max\ is a simple, unpretentious comedy that is constantly amusing and happily silly. A exceptionally talented cast makes the flimsy plot work, and their gestures and timing alone make the movie worthwltile. The movie has some intelligent satire that is not only intelligent, but ve1y funny. The plot involves a Mexican general's attempt to recapture the Alamo. The general (Peter Ustinov) leads an army that is really controlled by his sergeant (John Astin), and consists of members of various improvisationaly comedy groups. Capturing the Alamo, he takes prisoners, meets the State department bureaucrats, and engages the local National Guard in non-battle. The plot is simply an excuse for some absurd caricatures and jokes. One of the best sequences is a tour of the Alamo that mixes emotion and souvenirs with subdued abandon. Ustinov's confrontation with the State department is brilliant; it is funny and an encapsulation of American diplomacy (prdon my politics). The movie does not protect its best moments; the funniest bits might get lost if you do not pay attention. Two instances are Ustinov looking both ways for cars before he moves out his regiment and, as the right wing Minuteman is led away, he shouts in the distance, \Do you have relatives in Waco?\ These jokes pass almost immediately and are not accentuated by either sufficient time or a comic reation. The cast gives great individual performances t~at also complement each 'other. U stin ov is a wonderful romantic, never letting pathos obscure the comedy. John Astin is excellent in a low-key performance, exercizing rem a r k a b 1 e r e s train t. Honathan Winters, as a National Guard general, is fUnnier than he has been in a ]ong time. The rest of the cast is equally enjoyable. TEACHERS NEEDED Teaching opportunities for beginning and experienced candidates in private schools coast .to coast. Education courses not required. Write. SCHOOL SERVICE BUREAU Post Office Box 278K Windsor, Connecticut 06095 Tel: 203- 688-6409 As interesting as the picture Itself is the depicyion of the student activist, played by the beautiful Pamela Tiffin (uh-huh, the same one as .in last year's Playboy). Though she has disrupted college administrations, and admires Che, Fidel, and Tito, Miss Tiffin is neither stupid, stoned, nor sloppy, nor does preface everything with \like man,\ or \groovy.\ This is probably the most sympathetic depiction of a student radical in a commercial picture, including \John and Mary.\ The revolution must be getting closer. Accompanying \Viva Max\ is \J:ourney to the Far Side of the Sun,\ a combination .of Flash comics and a sophisticated Flash Gordon, with some modern effects. See \Viva Max,\ bu there is no need to rush for the other feature. At the theater, dono forget the moving, gleaming advertisement for the next Walt Disney hit, \The Computer Wore Tennis Shoes.\ It is a wonder of engineering and cleanliness. Hoop ... Larry Eimers led Wesleyan with 29 points, while Mark Helgren also had sixteen. The Union five returns to the court tonight opposing a powerful Rochester team in the Kodak City. The Garnet see action again on Thursday night at home against Utica College, and travel to R.P.I.on Friday night. The Union freshman posted their second straight upset win Thursday night, this time at the expense of From Page 6 Wesleyan. The Garnet yearlings triumphed 73-59. Last week, they stunned highly-touted Siena, 83-79. In the Wesleyan contest, Jim Bolz and Mike Doyle combined for 38 points to pace the victory. Bolz led the Dutchmen with 20 points, while Doyle tallied 18 and John Van Benschoten hit for eleven. The Garnet frosh are now 4-6, while Wesleyan fell 8-2. The Dutchmen face Rochester tonight in an away game. ZELL~IER'S NORGE LAUNDRY AND CLEANING VILLAGE AT 1559 VAN VRANKEN AVE. (at Hottie Street) DRY CLEANING 8 Lbs ...... _ _ $2.00 4 lb. Min.·- .... _ $1.00 DRYERS I 1 0 Min. _ . _ . __ . . • _ 1 0 WASHERS 1 2 Lb. _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ . 30 20 Lb.----------- .35 30Lb. ·-·-·------.50 Open Mon.·Fri. 8 A.M. to 9 P.M.· Sat. 8 A.M. to 5 P.M. Closed Sundays IF YOU HAVE NEVER HAD NORGE DRY CLEANING OONE WE CAN BET YOU WILL BE AMAZED NEWEST LU~CH 715 Jllbany St.reet Specializing: - HOT DOGS WITH FAMOUS SAUCE - DINNERS AND SANDWICHES - TAKE-OUT ORDERS - Union Studenh Favorite Spot - (Serving Schenectady Since 192 1 ) Mon.·Thurs. 7 A.M.·2 A.M. Fri,-Sct. 7 A.M.·4 A.M. Sun. 9 A.M.·l A.M. THE RIGHT PERSON !N THE RIGHT CAFrEER This is more than our Motto - it's our Promise to you. we•re constantly in contact with the Nation's most Progressive Firms a11d we know where the openings are both locally & nationally. Stop in at our modern offices. We're here to help you. Most positions are fee paid. ~Cf.;El~f;.~ ADVISORS b~uJ j:l• '\KI .r. ~TP.CEl 5Li\\1ENf:.tTADY NV 123ll5 • ·PHONE S1B·3724/b8 PAGE5 BLITHER Bob White will be this week's guest at the Coffehouse in Old Chapel on Saturday 11ight, February 21 at 9:00. White plays guitar, banjo, and au toharp and has toured the country singing ballads, love songs, blues, and con temporary folk music. Admission is $1.00, and for single girls, free. The 1969 Union Book is now available in the Middle Section of North College, between 3 and 5 p.m. on Wednesday and Thursday. All persons interested in the 1970 Second Annual Union College Invitational Basketball Tournament please fill out the form in the student activities office. All forms must be filled out by Monday, February 23. Eugene Nickerson, a contender for the New York State Gubernatorial nomination, will speak at the State University of New York at Albany on February 19. Fallowing an initial address by the Nassau County Executive, there will be a question- and-answer session. The program, sponsored by the SUNY A New Democratic Coalition will be held on Thursday, February 19 in the Campus Center Ballroom at 8:00p.m. The public is invited to attend. There will be a meeting Tuesday evening, February 17, and Thursday, February 19 for all junior Pre-Meds. Dr. Roth will discuss the MCAT's and application forms, and information booklets will be distributed. Both meetings will be essentially the same, so students should plan to attend only one. The sessions will be held at 7:30 p.m. in Bailey Hall, Room 304. A leading photographic studio will be on campus February 23 through 26. All seniors who want formal portraits for the yearbook, graduate school, or family should make an appointment in the student activities office as soon as possible. \Th Effect of Drugs on the Human Brain\ will be the subject of a lecture by Dr. Thomas F. D. Oram, Chief Pathologist at Ellis Hospital on Friday evening February 20, at 8:00p.m. The lecture will be in the Great Hall of the First Unitarian Society at 1221 Wendell Avenue, Schenectady. There will be no charge. The English Department announces its annual poetry contest, sponsored by the American Academy of Poets. Poets of any form, length or meter by Union College Students are eligible. The prize money of $100 will be divided in up to three ways, according to the merit of the individual entries. Deadline is April 24, 1970. See Professor Kilburn in Humanities 216 for more details. HOLIDAY IDEAS I'd like more information on the following Holidays. --NASSAU CRUISE --CARIBBEAN CRUISE --HAWAII HOLIDAY --MEXICO HOLIDAY --PUERTO RICO --FREEPORT --MIAMI BEACH --BERMUDA NAME ADDRESS CITV _________ STATE ----- MAlL TO: Dorp Travel Agency 112 Railroad Street, Schenectady, New York 12301

PA.~E 6 FEBRUARY 17, 1970 Grapplers Win Seventh, 23·11 ByBILL HOLLERAN A sore Garnet wrestling team scored its seventh win of the season Saturday afternoon at Alumni Gym, downing the University of Rochester, 23-ll. The Dutchmen, still recovering from a rash of injmies that struck the team last week, triumphed in seven of ten matches to run their season's mark to 7-2. OH THAT HURTS! Heavyweight Pete Kenyon applies the ,pressure to his Hochester foe on the way to a 5-3win that iced the 23-11 Garnet victory. 150-pomtder Jeff Knetzer led the way for the Garnet, pirming his opponent. Ron Ruhl, Phil Reed, and Gary Morris scored other big victories for Union. H'oop Tops Poin't Total Mark Against Stevens all at the seven minute mark. Ruhl Wins Ruhl, wrestling for the first time since suffering a painful back injury ten days ago, returned to record a decision at 118. Frosh star Reed, also wrestling for the first time since he damaged his knee against St. Lawrence, scored a come-from-behind 9-6 victory at 158. Reed fell behind 6-1 early in the bout but rallied impfessively for the win. Hv MARK SHUGOLL From there, Union just piled Union's basketball team, shooting 53 per cent from the field, rolled up the highest point total in the school's history on Saturday, as they manhandled Stevens Tech. 1:05·78. Earlier in the week Union fell to Wesleyan 85-66 for their thirteenth loss of the season. The win at Stevens was the team's fourth. In the victory, Jim Tedisco topped his own shcool scoring record by a pointashepoured in 45. The diminutive badcourt ace hit an amazing 17 for 27 from the floor and II for 14 from the foul line. In the process, he also eclipsed a Union record for field goals in a season with 186, two better tl1an Toby Lustig's total six years ago. Tedisco was the Garnet's lone scorer in double figures, although Dave Shames, Rein Eichinger, and Chuck Spaulding each hit for eight points. Rit Gallucci hauled in 14 rebounds, the fourteenth straight game he has managed twin figures in this department. Union outre bounded Stevens, 65-5 3. The 105 point offensive total broke a I 7 year old mark forteam points, and tpe score might have been higher. The Dutchmen hit on only 57 per cent of their foul shots, and were 1 held to but five points in the tbpening five minutes of thegmne. Stevens jumped off to a !0,5 lead before the Garnet knotted the score at thirteen The G arnet-R.P.I. basketball game, originally slated for · Saturday, February 21, has been re-scheduled for Friday night, February 20. Tap-off tillle is 8:00 p.m. at '86 Gym in Troy. The contest vvill be preceded by a freshman preliminary at 6:30. on the points. Six. straight buckets by Tedisco put the visitors in front 40-27. At halftime Union was in command 48-34. The Garnet pulled away to a 64-42 advantage in the second session, and broke the century mark with 1 :35left to play on a shot by Rich MacLeod. Stevens'srecord fell to4-10with theloss. Against Wesleyan, three men hit in double figures, led by Tedisco with 26, but the Garnet fell short, 85-66. Shames and Gallucci tallied ten points apiece. The Dutchmen took an early seven point lead, but a ten-point outburst by the Cardinals put them in front to stay. Wesleyan led 38-33 at the half before opening up to their 19 point victory margin. 6-5 Tim Aik.en set a rebounding record for the 10-2 Cardinals. He pulled down 28 rebounds to shatter the Wesleyan mark, and popped for sixteen points. Continued on Page 5 Morris had no trouble in coasting to a 16-2 triumph. He injured his knee late in the match, but Coach Gerry Everling reported that the injury was not serious. \We're confident that he'll be back next week,\ the Garnet mentor said yesterday. .Everling Happy Lenny Solomon, hustling all the way in his 134 match, scored a big 7-6 win. Everling was well-pleased with Solomon's performance, commenting, \Lenny did as well as anybody. We needed the win.\ Naysim Simon and Pete Kenyon recorded the other · Union victories, as Simon decisioned his man 6-3 and Rich Clears G 'J'' In local AAU Meet Several Union College athletes traveled to Albany Saturday to compete in the A.A.U. sponsored Capital District Track Championship. One of the best showings of the evening by a Ganet performer was turned in by Mike Rich. The Sophomore cleared 6'5\ in the high jump, good for second place. He was followed by frosh Ed Rowley , who fmished third at 6'2\. The Dutchmen mile relay team also fared well. f' The quartet of Greg Hamlin, Vince Foster, Time McCabe, and Rich Jaszczak raced to a third place 3:32.7 clocking. Jaszczak ran the fastest quarter of the night, 49.2, in anchoring the team to its fine finish. Joe Burgess, John Braham, and Bruce Cobb also participated in the meet. Burgess competed in the mile run, while Braham ran in the 1000 yarder and Cobb ran in the 60-yard event. NEW VORl< TO LONDON· SUMMER VACATION TRIPS- ROUND TRIP $169. NOW Fl LLING · SMALL DEPOSIT AND PAYMENTS· SEND FOR FREE DETAILS. STUDENT GLOBE ROAMERS BOX 6575 HOLLYWOOD, FLORIDA 33021 Kenymt, the Garnet's massive heavyweight, eked out a 5-3 win. J,ohn DeSaix, a freshman performer who pinned his Dartmouth foe last week in his fi.rst varsity appearance, lost an 11-2 decision. Other Garnet losers were Rich Burstein, who dropped his match 10-7, and Bill Simson, who was pinned. Although the depth-plagued Dutchmen are in much better physical shape than they were last week against Dartmouth, they will not be at their best for this Saturday's match against New I Paltz. Freshman Penn Sheldon, who has been plagued by a collarbone ailment, is once again a doubtful sta,rter, while Ruhl, whose back is still bothering him,may not wrestle. Included in the \walking wounded\ list are BillMunno, who has a touch of the flu but should be in top shape by Satmday, and Morris, whose knee should be sound by the weekend. A THINKING MAN'S MESSAGE about Diamonds Puzzled by the wide variety in diamond pricing? Co.n- fused by \discount\ promises in mail-order ads and cata- logs? Then you need some- one you can trust to give you factual information about what to look for in a dia- mond. As a member firm of the American Gem Society, we have such a diamond spe- cialist on our staff. He will be happy to properly and ethi- cally advise you on the subtle differences in diamond qual- ity that affect the price you pay. Come in and see us. @ MEMBER AMERICAN GEM soctm Use Your Master Charge Card Graubart & Sons (Schenectady's famous diamond shop for 3 generations) 166Jay St. Three Union Graduates in Family VOLUMI Nc ( Ta By The phys mathe1 discus~ presen proble proces au die stu d1 mutte1 Dr profe Prince convo< morni.J in ten special of the mathe wen compr audier of p Jame: equati He traditi the j regula in ani ref en Desc< Huxle Bu: consid \regul of a be cam of E which Ma who 1879 physi COhtri comp Newt< Af equati

1970 New I been bone a ering nno, but by the VOLUME, 99 No. 40 Fou 11 d ed ot lh11011 Co lleqe 1k7 7 SCHENECTADY, NEW YORK FEBRUARY 20, 19i7_0 __ ~ _______ P_R_I_C_E_T_W_E_N_T_Y_C_E_N_T_s_ Linebacker To Publish Senate Grants Funds 'By RICHARD E. PATTERSON, JR. The Student Senate, meeting Tuesday night, approved a motion caJling for the establishment of a central campus mailroom, and heard the Chairman of the Tax Committee report that Linebacker will continue to be published this year. financial report on each activity sup•pmted by student tax funds. 11e aLso announced that h.e and Neil S. Kramer and Richard lvl. Daniel, Jr., co-editors of Linebacker, the student ,c<Ju rse evaluation, had agreed O!ll 2 new format for the-e\al ua 1ion booklet. The 11e'N h<mklet would list on:ly the st atisticaJ mean and the :struulard deviation of the answers 1o questions for each coL.use, instead of listing a conpilation of answers themselves., F\azer said. This would reduce the size of the booklet by over one-half, thus resul1ing: in a substantially lower printing cost. Fraser said an additional grant of $600 would allow Linebacker to continue to publish 1500 copies of its evaluations for this year. The committee's report on the financial status of student activities was approved. In other business, the senate voted to poll living units concerning a proposed calendar change now before the faculty. If adopted, the new calendar would begin classes next fall on September 11, two weeks earlier than Contilzued on Page 3 Nobel Prize Laureate Talks Too Much Math A printed motion, circulated at the meeting, cited irregularities and inefficiencies in the present campus mail distribution system. A central mailroon \with boxes for all independent and all off-campus students, a box for each fraternity, and a box for each activity\ was proposed, to begin in September. Until the student center in Carnegie Hall is completed, it was noted that the rnailroom \can be temporarily placed in another loc.ation, such as Old Chapel.\ G.u:nnar ·Myrdal To Be On, !Camp us Next Week By NEILS. KRAMER The 1963 Nobellaureat in physics had to use mathematical expressions in a discussion of the \attitude of present science toward the problem of life,\ and in the process left most of his audience of 200 Union students and faculty muttering to themselves. Dr. Eugene Wigner, professor of physics at Princeton University, was a convocation speaker Tuesday morning and his address was intended for the non- specialist. But the very nature of the work physicists db is mathematical, and Dr. Wigner went beyond the comprehension of most of his audience when he used some of Albert Einstein's and James Clerk Maxwell's equations to make his point. He explained the traditional aim of physics as the attempt \to discover regularities in the behavior of inanimate objects\ with references to Aristotle, Descartes, and Thomas Huxley. But when he turned to considerations of discovering \regularities in the behavior of animate objects,\ he became involved in the work of Einstein and Maxwell, which is highly mathematical. Maxwell, an Englishman who lived from 1831 to 18 7 9, is considered by physicists to have made contributions to the field comparable to those of Newton and Einstein. After writing four equations that require the mathematical sophistication of thJ:\ee years of college-level study of math and physics, and explaining how they fit into his scheme, Dr. Wigner said, \Whenever it was attempted to extend physics to a broader range of phenomena, it was necessary to introduce new fundarnen tal concepts.\ The motion, approved overwhelmingly, suggested that \a full time person whose responsibility is running the mail and not being a student\ be hired to operate the mailroom from 9-5 daily, six days per week. Ross Fraser, Chairman of the Tax Committee, presented the senate with a Faculty Council Gunnar I'vlyrdal, the famed Swedish economist and sociologist will be in residence llere next Thursday through. Satur.day as the second Ua--vidson Fellow. Dr. Myrdal, who is the Director d the Institute of Internati0nal Economic Studies at t.lle University of Stockhohn and author of the No Change In Calendar By PETER J. WE INGOLD anniversary celebration, to be members thaLt the creation of The Faculty Council decided last Tuesday afternoon that more discussion was needed before action could be taken on furtheJ:\ grading changes, rev1smg the calendar, or grantLng; a degree from Union after three years of study here. Tile Council did vote unanimously, however, to institute a new major in \Comparative Communist Systems,\ which actually will be a reorganization of courses already being given. The new program, which will be under the direction of Prof. Charles Gati, of the Political Science Depart1nent, will examine the Chinese and Russian systems of government. It was also decided by the Council at the request of President Martin to suspend classes for one day in May in order to hold a 175th dedicated to the ideals of such a c~m:rnittee would education. create 11eedles-s bu.reaucratic Don't Follow red tape,. and the selection of Failing to follow in the faculty corandttee members footsteps of the Student has been left solely in the Senate, the Council did not hands o fthe President. institute a Faculty AltlHJugh ithadoriginally Committee on Committees. It been projposed by the .. ,as felt by some Council Curricular At..ff.alrs Committee to have pa~s fail, 12-point, and pt:oficie 11cy exams passed at one thm, it was decided by The Mountebanks are presenting one of the most ambitious projects in their history as they perform Niccolo Machiavelli's only play, \The Mandrake,\ tonight and tomorrow evening. The performances begin at 8:30. The production will also be presented next Thursday, Friday, and Saturday,. February 26-28. A review of the performance will appear in Tuesday's Concordiensis. the Coun<:il ,that much more discussi0r1. and polling of student <lpinion has to be done before any more grading changesa:reinstituted. The C<Juncil members also felt tl1at the current calendar may n<Jt :be satisfactory but neither ·is aJlf other proposal any nore satisfactory. The propos:21 :to begin the Fall tenn tVIt> weeks earlier and to have a six V/eek Christmas Ccm tinued 011 Page 3 noted book on the American race crisis, The American Dilemma, will meet with the students and faculty formally and informally throughout hls three day stay here. Dr. Myrdal will hold an open seminar for students and faculty on Thursday at 11:30 a.m. in SS 115. The topic of the discussion will be Economic Development of Underdeveloped Countries.\ A seminar open only to the faculty will be held at 3:30 p.m. in SS 110. The session will be closed to students and the public. At 8:30 p.m. in Memorial Chapel, Dr. Myrdal will deliver an open convocation on a \Reassessment of an American Dilemma.\ It w:ill be followed directly afterward by a reception in Davidson Lounge. There will be two open, informal discussion periods on Friday at 10:00 a.m. in the Social Science faculty lounge and Saturday at 10:30 a.m. in Silliman Hall. In addition, Dr. Myrdal, will take part in a closed panel discussion with black students from Union and Smith on Friday afternoon.

PAGE 2 To The College Community: Appearing in the '69 Union Book is a picture of Delta Phi fraternity in which one individual is posing without clothes. There is no doubt, to our way of thinking, that the picture in in poor taste and possibly offensive to some people. If this should be the case, we offer our apologies to the offended parties. The picture in question was supposed to be censored by the publisher; dwring printing of the book further, specific orders were given to the publisher for censorship. Still the picture was published. It is unfortunate that the actions of certain individuals must be sustained by the organizations which they we~e an obvious, but unrepresentative, part of. William Wicker, 71 President, Delta Phi Mark C. Boylan, '71 Co-Editor, Union Book Calendar There is only one word that can adequately describe the current calendar revision proposal...poor. Moving the Fall Term back weeks will do absolutely no good for anyone, and it will harm hundreds of students, financially and educationally. We can see little purpose in starting school on September II except to copy everyone else's calendar. Starting the year the last week in September gives the Union man the two weeks of work (or vacatim1) that he loses in June. Furthermore, it enables the Biology Department to offer a unique field-oriented Marine Biology course at one of the finest research labs in the world. The six-week vacation proposed under the new system would be essentially a waste. The number of Christmas jobs available is limited, the pay is genrally poor, and, with every other college student still in class, social opportunities at home would rival those in swinging Schenectady. It has been suggested that tile Winter Term be started in December and be interrupted by Christmas vacation. The ten week system was designed to promote concentrated continuous study; the Winter term would be educationally deficient if it were broken in the middle. Whatever its liabilities, we feel the present calendar is still the best. ~io·· ,;j.; .... ~~ Qlnnror 17 i: ,:! ' 5 ~ittt.ata r-o\- . .,!1(1 ~~.t-.Y~· Published Tuesday and Friday Editorial Office. Old Gym, during, the School year by the Union College fublication Stu de.nt Body of • Union Office. Whitehurst Printing & College, Schenectady, N.Y. Binding Co., Inc .. 416 418 N atiof)a! Adverti!Sing Fifth Ave, Troy, 2354450. Representative. National Entered in the Schenectady Educational Advertising Post Office as Second Class Service, Inc., Collage Mail Matter. Subscriptoon 20 Publishers Representative. 360 cents a copy. $6 a year Lexington Avenue, N. Y .C. delivered anywhere in the United States. Henry G. Fein William Ouzer Editors-in-Chief Peter J. Weingold .............. fl.tatwging f:'clitor Jeff Bim ....................... Busiucss Manager William J. Holleran .................. Sports Editor Jody SasJow . . . . ............. Photography l:.'ditr 1r M. Paul Andrews ............... Cofltribu ting 1-.'ditur Richard Patterson .............. Con!Tibu tmg Fdilor Neil S. Kramer ................... Editor 1-.'meritus Staff: Robert ·A. l.evine. Danny Shocket. Da1'1d Ugucciuni. l.ou1s Snltkoff, Tom· Fuga, Doug Wong, .H. Grossman, Mike Couilch, John JJa\igan. Peter •Bickerman,Kevin Roberts,lt11chel/c Vot Its. UoyJ H1ms. M1chaei Swirsky, .Veil Green, Douglas Tosh, George Kaplan. O:zarlr~ rung. Marg Slzugn/1, GTI!g 1/am/m, Mrke Humber, Dennis Als1'frum, Stu Moss, Bruce Garber. Hank l.evine. Dave ( unrey Doug Bilider FEBRUARY 20, 1970 ' ' Letters To The E'ditors To the Editors: This is one of many gripes concerning meals at West College, one that has been a source of increasing annoyance over the past few weeks. The complaint concerns a group of four or five black fellow freshmen who have been cutting into the fwnt of the meal line regularly. This may be touching on a sensitive nerve endin:g, but it is my suggestion that these stwdents are not remanded for their offenses simply because they are black, whereas a group of white students who tried the same thing would be hooted to the back of the line. I realize that it is he resay for a radical youth such as myself to be so racist as to request equal treatment for and by black and white persons - shades of Abraham Ribicoff. I concede that my complaint is a petty one, involving the ability to be the first to eat that great SAGA grub. But if an egalitarian utopia is to begin here at Union, all special privileges must be abolished. The right to stand in line must be extended to all students. Sincerely, James Meyer '73 To the Editors: I would like to comment on Mr. Krejci's recent letter satirically deploring the use of Union College sidewalks as roadways. I consider his statement most unfair to the many dedicated drivers who use these sidewalks daily. The problem is not as simple as Mr. Krejci makes it sound. Lack of money and personnel has kept this sidewalk from developing to its maximum p0tential as a superhighway. Because the Student Tax Committee has decided to limit expenditures on this project to three hundred and fifty thousand dollars adequate funds are lacking. It is not as simple as some pe()ple (i.e. Mr. JCrejci) think to arrange all the details of the matter witllout people who are willing to help. Persons currently involved on the project sometimes work twenty tilree and one· half hours a day, filling their cars with gasoline, polishing and driving them. V 0lunteers are always welcome, but some pe()p)e (i.e. Mr. ICrejci) while all too willing to criticize campus sidewalk drivers are unwilling to drive themselves. Scott Simons '72 To the Editors: There is nothing wrong with Saga food; we've eatin worse, but you've got to hand it to the people that mn the show. They really go out uf their way to ca<ter to the students. In ~the fall while we were having left-over ..summer weather, Saga graCiously allowed us to stand out side West College in the bright sunshine while we waited in a single line to eat Winter came with spanking new equipment for a second line which considembly, reduced the waiting time outs id.e the cafeteria. Apparently, to emphasize their versitility, Saga has retu:r.ned to its one line system. Most of us have paid our board .expecting to eat with a mtmm urn of aggravation. There are other things we need to do with the time we spend awaiting the evenings newest gourmet delight. •Topaz,' By Hitchcock, Marvel Of Whether putting the available help to better use or hiring new help, there should be no need to have only one serving line. We don't care if Joe Saga calls a hamburger \El Ranchero,\ \Frankly goods\ or ·\Veal Steak,\ it'sa lot easier to swallow if you don't have to think about if for twenty minutes while waiting in line. Craftsmanship, By JAMIL FALDUCCIWITZ In the series of interviews with Francois Truffaut, Alfred Hitchcock declares that he enjoys to make films that pit one man against a large, inhuman organization. Hitchcock's latest movie, ''Topaz,\ is at its best when a single person, at the risk of his life, combats the entire Communist monolith. At these times, the plot is suspenseful, the technical mastery is awesome, and the viewer is fascinated. Unfortunately, there are stretches of the film where the main focus is foreign intrigue, and tilese dull lapses keep the film from being great. Hitchcock is at his best when he has an actor that is so personally interesting that the movie has a personal, central focus. In the past, there was Cary Gran~, James Stewart, Ingrid Bergman, and Grace Kelly. In \Topaz there is no such personality; in fact, the actors are wooden and lifeless. None of the performers are stars, the most famous being John Forsythe. Once, when discussing James Stewart, Hitchcock said that a star brings audience sympatico that no unknown actor, no rna tter how talented, can c0mmunicate. Perhaps a talented actor could prove Hitchcock is mistaken, but \Topaz\ is a brilliant proof for tile theory. Direction The direction, the personal Hitchcock tau ches, are briltian t. The command of detail is remarkable. Some of the effects are literally breath.taking; one should see the mm if only for the shooting of the Cuban underground leader. The color contrasts in that one shot are the most violently beautiful ever seen. Not having read the book, I do not know how faithful the fllm is to it, but I suspect the book was quite different, Continued on Page 5 Rick Aror1s Ron Aines Larry Bernstein Mark Shugoll Class of '73 Pennel Esso N ott Street Corner Of Van Vranken DOUGLAS S,'ill'IIL'( radr\ I cud!llg He'll·, Shrot• Stt•rc BOSTONIAN • BATES* WALL-STREETER HUSH PUPPIES* WALK·OVER * SEBAGO-MOCS MANSFIELD\ SNOW & AFTER SKI BOOTS Phone FR 4-8577 319 State Street Schenectady, N. Y. $1 OFF PURCHASE OF SHOES UPON PRESENTATION OF I. D. CARD FEBHU By{ The mother Tuesd mother for stu :live UJ cars. 1 much a The trans:r: welfare C apit< vehicle than n the m we wet \Ju womet \Sc Miria answet \A:. to th1 night, tome \Y many show \) long this 1 to ge knoVI It 1hat 1 woul Ren: kind wort< bure< the distr as t recis: .recei app( the wev for 1 v dist1 hou peoJ The 10:: the wo wel her dra bo ho un pll ou Ev to ffil Uil th wl th ea cc

Nrong eatin hand the of the were side time a size has line our we we the se ()r if it's a you ut if '73 F·EBRUARY 20,1970 The WeljareMarch ByOANN'i~CK§tudy in Contrasts scrambled egg mix, eaRned \Look all furL ugh the ages .... \ There was a welfare mothers' march on Albany Tuesday. The welfare mothers' organization asked for student aid; there were :ftve Union students in four cars. Those people get too much anyway. chop meat (\There's always that\) quick cooked oats, and peanut butter (\Use your ·can opener to open, close with plastic top\). \OhhJ:lh haven't you ever heard of Women's Liberation? Women are capable ·of the same thlngs men are. Anyway, I hate changing diapers.\ The four cars were for transporting Rensselaer welfare moth_ers to the State Capitol. After the four vehicles foofuardily rather than miraculously arrived at the meeting place together, we were read'V for action. ••Just sit there until the women get here.\ \Someone was home at Miriam's, but nobody answered the door.\ \Alice had to take her kid to the hospital, was up all night, but she said she'd try to meet us there.\ \You know, it's so cold many people will be afraid to show up.\ \Am I pissed off! How long we've been working on this thing? One month! Sorry to get you kids here, but you know ... \ ' It soon became obvious 1hat most of th!! cars available wouldn't be needed; but the Rensselaer Welfare Board kindly provided us with work. With the subtlety of bureaucrats, they scheduled the monthly food distribution on the same day as th~ march. If a welfare .recipient is not there to .receive the food on the appointed day, tough. With the mothers' welfare cards, we went to pick up their food for them. We arrived at the distribution point, the fire house, at 9:30. Most of the people were already there. The food truck arrived at 10:30. The recipients looked likt: the kind of people who would complain about welfare if they were not on it; here was the silent majority, drab, lifeless, and whlte. Everybody has cardboard boxes to carry the food; they hold them as the food is unloaded on ballbearing planks, the kind they use outside of supermarkets. Everyone but the men seem to be sizing up each box; the men just let them slide by. Once the boxes are unloaded; the recipients give the distributor their card which tells how many are in the family, and how much each family gets. There is com syrup, instant potatoes, Since we were on the back of the line, and in an altruistic mood, anyway, we decided to help sorne of the women with the boxes. In Albany, high school students are hired to load the packages for the families; Rensselaer isn't that progressive. The line is slowed down because the floor becomes cluttered with the full boxes. Most families have at least five boxes, and though most of the family, children included, help with the loading, it takes time. The packages, ftlled with various cans, are quite heavy, and the women have a hard time lifting them to cars. Most were amazed to be helped. \Don't help me, help her, she's pregnant.\ The men both appreciate and resent being helped. When, an hour later, we finally got our food, the boxes bore the legend, \Donated by the Dept. of Agriculture.\ The higher the bureaucrat gets, the more subtle. We returned to the Welfare Board office with the food we had picked up for the families that couldn't make it to the distribution point and it became apparent that welfare mothers have welfare children. Students from S.U.N.Y. were babysitting for the marchers. I was about to leave when one of the children handed me a coloring book and a partially eaten crayon and asked me to color a car. Seven cars, six boys, and two cats later I found myself spinning tops and dropping crayons on the floor while one blond boy ran back and forth. I would drop the last crayon, and then congratulate him. I was trying to convince a 1 ~ year old boy that the brown crayons wen: better to eat than the red ones, when I made a startling discovery. \Could some girl change this kid!\ MISTAKE! \What do you mean girl?\ \Would one of you change him!\ \Why should the girls do it? Why not the boys?\ \What about maternal instinct?\ 1 could not open my mouth without putting my masculinity in it. \That's purely psychological. It doesn't exist. How can you be part of the revolution and be a male nhauvanist'l'' \I always thought you had to be a romantic to be a revolutionary, anyway.\ I did not actually say that, but I should have. Anyway, babysit1ing is not what I envision when someone says revolution. A comprimise was fin.ally worked out. A girl changed the chlld, but a boy sat by and learned how to do it. They asked my major, I said, \English and they asked me how I could possibly study only English literature and not the other literature of other nations. Beginning to feel like the token conservative, I took the last crayon out of the child's moutt.. a11d said farewell. As 1 drove by the capitol, there were small groups of people walking down the streei shouting, \Welfare rights, Now! Welfare rights, Now!\ Even they did not seem io believe it. Phone 372..{)528 PARK PIZZERIA FREE DELIVERY Italian Gdnders Our Specialty Behind Davidson Hall· One Block from the Campus 25 Park Place Schenectady, N. Y, NEW YORK TO LONDON· SUMMER VACATION TRIPS· ROUND TRIP $169. NOW F I LUNG · SMALL DEPOSIT AND PAYMENTS· SEND FOR FREE DETAILS. STUDENT GLOBE ROAMERS BOX 6575 HOLLYWOOD, FLORIDA 33021 f.aculty Councll recess was tabled for further discussion and polling of student opinion. IVIostly Bad The calendar ch.ange would ,favorably affect exchange courses with other Consortium schools but would adversely affect the Fall sports and the pre,school Biology .courses, and was deemed not to be very worthwhile. Because \we are moving toward the master's degree being what the bachelor's degree was,\ as President Martin said, the Council discussed whether or not and under what circumstances to grant a bachelor's degree from Union if an advanced degree is obtained without the requirements for a bachelor's degree havingbeen met. This would apply specifically to students who leave Union after three years to get advanced degrees without having gotten a degree here. It was felt generally that a Union degree should be awarded if the student satisfactorily completes one year at a graduate or professional s9hool. But no definite action was taken and the matter will be considered further. JAN FEB PAGE 3 Mailroom Pro.posed usual. Fall term recess would begin at Thanksgiving and run through New Years. The Winter and Spring term calendars would not be changed. The Senate officers also introduced two proposed amendments to the Student Body ConstHu tion. The first would allow newly elected Student Body officers to take office immediately in the Spring. The second would give the Senate's executive committee, the President, Vice-President and Secretary, the power to approve the constitu Hans of all student organizations requesting student funds. This action would be subject to review by the full Senate. This motion, which must receive a 2/3 majority of senators present and voting in order to pass, will be voted upon at the next meeting, to be held on March 3. Action on a motion to make the Juni<H Year Camp. Ed. program optional was postponed, pending a report on revisions in the Comp. Ed. program from the Comp. Ed. Board MAR 1 2 3 4 5 6 1 2 3 4 5 6 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 BE A WINNER!! NO MATTER WHATDAYYOU WEREBORN JOIN AFROTC If you have 2 yearsaf College left (grad orundergrad), AFROTC at Union College has a 2-year Commissiofling program that will pay you while you're still in school and even offers Free Flying Lessons (if you qualify). BUT DON'T DELAY· DEADLINE FOR APPLI- CATIONS- 1 MARCH 70 Come visit with AFROTC at Hoadley House or Call37 4-6523 for more information DON'T TAKE A CHANCE ON A.LOTIERY PLAN YOUR FUTURE- YOURSELF JOIN AFROTC

PAGE 4 Star Spangled Idol, The Flag By RAY KRISE, JR. Stephen Raclich displaye'd a painting showing \the flag of the United States of America in the form of the male sexual organ, erect and protruding from the upright member of a cross,\ and was sentenced to 60 days in jail or a $500 fine because of it. A lady on Long Island flew the flag in her yard upside down, and was sentenced to a year in jail or a $1,000 fine because of it. Countless kids across the country wear clothing eitl1er made from American flags, or fashioned to look as if they were, and are summarily thrown in the local pokey because of it. That, guys, is ridiculous. Yes, of course it is, we all know iliat, but there are obviously those--among them, New York Court of Appeals judges--who do not think so. Why? What is there about the flag of this nation iliat sets it apart from all other pieces of cloth? And, as it is only a piece of cloth, why cannot it be used as all other pieces of cloth are used? Why can't you wash our car with it, for example? The apparent answer is that tile flag is a symbol, and what it symbolizes is this great land of ours (?), this Amerika. If you mess with the flag, you're messing with Amerika, son. Which means you're messing with me. Bull. What we have here is a failure to think. I have a flag hanging in my room (and I could be hauled off to the hoosegow for displaying it the way I am), and I just checked it over very carefully and failed to find any magical properties, or any demons rising from hell to torment me for having painted a fist on it; I still sleep well at nights. But human intellect has always been used to justify man's emotions --never the other way around--and we have come to a juncture in civilization when the symbol for something is being confused with the actual thing itself. It doesn't make one· tu'pence worth of difference what I do with the bloody flag, it's what I do with Amerika that counts. Children, we live in an electronic age where those who have never seen a real, live kangaroo (except, maybe, in a Chicago courtroom) are willing to accept a scattering of electrons across their television screen as being that kangaroo. We substitute pills and dope for real pleasure, cars for sex, and grades for education. It is us on whom the flag-deifiers are beating, but we should be able to understand them perfectly. We are no better than they are. Only, we're supposed to have learned from the past The failure to have done so is obscene. .~.~. .--·.:.' ~~, .·· ' .. ~· - ' \ FEBRUARY 20, 1970 *CEILING AND VISIBIL,ITV UNLIMITED At Pratt 6 Whitney Arrmft '\ceilmg and visibility unlimited'' is not JUSt an expressron For example. the Presrdent of our parent corporCJtlon JOined P&WA only two years after receiv- rng an engrneenng degree. The preceding President. now Chairman. never worked for an~ other company. The <current Presrdent of P&WA started in our engrneering department as an ex pe rrmenta I engineer and moved up to his present positron In fact. the maJonty 'Jf our senror officers all have one thing in common - degrees rn ~ n :~ngrneenng or_ screntlfrc field. To rnsure CAVU'. we select our engrneers and screntists carefully Motrvate them well Give them the equrpment and facrlrtres only a leader can provide Offer them company-paid, graduate education opportunrtres. Encourage therp to push into frelds that have not been explored before. Keep them reaching for a little bit more responsibility than they can manage Reward them well when they do manage 1!. Your degree can be a B.S .. MS .. or Ph D. in: MECHANICAL • AERONAUT I CAL • ELECTRICAL • CHEMICAL • CIVIL • MARINE • INDUSTRIAL ENGINEERING • PHYSICS • CHEM- ISTRY • METALLURGY • M~TERIALS SCIENCE • CERAM- ICS • MATHEMATICS • STATISTICS • COMPUTER SCI- ENCE • ENGINEERING SCIENCE • ENGINEERING MECHANrCS. Consult your college placement offrcer - or write Mr. Wrlliam L Stoner. Engineerrng Department. Pratt & Whitney Aircraft. East Hartford. Connectrcut 06108. CAVU, might also mean full utiliza.tion of your technical skill.s through a w rde range of challenging programs which include jet engrnes for the newest mtlltar,y and commercial aircraft, gas turbines for inrlustrial a11d marine use, rocket engines for space programs, fuel cells for space vehicles an<f terrestrial uses, and other advanced systems •. Pratt~& Whitney Aircraft u 01V1St0N OF UNITED AIRCRAFT CORPORATION r:l EAST HARTFORD AND MIDDLETOWN, CONNECTICUT WEST PALM BEACH, FLORIDA \'\'E. 1ual Oppor1un,tr Employer

PAGE 5 February 28 ~Proffit', Back With Frye The man who once pledged, \If Nixon doesn't end the war in Viet Nam, I'll pick up the phone and do it ·myself,\ David Frye, headlines the next presentation of the College Social Committee. By now the best-known and most effective imp e r sonater in show business. Frye has gained especial prominence of late with a record release and frequent appearances on the Tonight show. Those who follow his act take delight in his irreverant and perceptive comments about the former President, Lyndon Johnson and his worthy successor, as Frye . would have us believe, Richard Nixon. The Brooklyn born comedian found show business hard to break into and worked as a salesman in his fathers office-cleaning firm until 1 963. Then, he added Robert Kennedy and several other political figures to his repetory .of voices and working hard studying recordings and newsbroadcasts he tuned his uncanny ear to near perfection. With the political content to spice his act Frye found work easier to get and began nigh tel u b appearances regularly. His devastating comment and polished technique propelled him to his current status as star. Along with success however, comes the pressure of finding new material and keeping impersonations and facial expressions sharp and accurate. Now, like a trumpeter who must practice to keep his lip in shape, he Hitchcock ... in focus if not in incident. The story of the espionage that led to the Cuban missile crisis is the background for numerous encounters and intrigues. Hitchcock is a master of suspense, and the fUm showshis genius literally ' hlmost immediately. Irony Strangely, the film becomes ironical as soon as , the main venture is accomplished, about two-thirds of the way in to the movie. The film seems to be saying that all the sacrifices were meaningless :md unnecessary. After most · • of the group is either tortured or murderecf, Forsythe thanks the leader by telling him that his information double checked their information. The final collage in the film tnderlines the absurdity of the entire eoperation. In all fairness, the critic must acknowledge that the film was viewed through left-colored glasses. \Topaz\ won't be your favorite Hitchcock film, and might not even rank near the top. However, one should see it if only to marvel at a great director's craftsmanship. Strange On the same bill is \Death of a Gunfighter,\ starring Richard Widmark and Lena Horne. Like \The Wild Bunch\ and \Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid,\ the hero has not grown with the West, and is tragically out of date. This time, the anachronism is the sheriff, whose contract, signed twenty year ago, allows him to keep the job as long as he wants. The town wants to get rid of him, and there, unfortunately lies the trite situations and dialogue. However, the film's climax does hav the strangest fifteen minutes I have ever seen. FEBRUARY 20, 1970 Victor R:iesel, Journalist Kahn, :Physicist, To Spea Two leaders in their respective fields will highlight next weeks schedule of Speakers. Firstly, Dr. Peter B. Kahn, a professor of physics at SUNY-Stony Brook, will give two public lectures at Union College next week. The first address, \The Turning Point of Physics,\ is geared to an audience of non-specialists and is scheduled for Monday, February 23, at 4:30 in room 202 of the physics building. The second talk, aimed at physicists and scientiests in related fields is \The H Theorem Problems in Mechanical Statistics.\ It is set for Tuesday, February 24 at 4:30 in room 202, physics building. Riesel Reknown Columnist, Victor Riesel, will be the guest of the political forum. Riesel, whose column appears in the Schenectady Gazette, has won many major Journalism awards. His beat is labor and throughout the fifties he doggedly pursued Racketters and others milking unsuspecting Unions. Monday, February 23, at 4:00 in SS 016, Mr. Riesel will speak on, \Labor and Organized Crime.\ / Blither ~ spends two hours a day in t:ront of a mirror controting his voice and face from the darting tongue and pedantic glibness of William Buckley to the jowl ridden sobriety of Richard Nixon. Appearing with Frye will be the very popular Mason Profit. The group, which appeared at Union, to enthusiastic response, last term began in Chicago. There, the five-man combo started writing their own material and discovered a blue grass rock sound was natural to them. They have taken this root, aged, mellowed and sifted it through hard Rock and come up with their own sound; potent music of the old west, flavored with ideas of the new. One critic has commented, \To experience Mason Proffit is to stand with your eyes on the nineteenth century, your ears in the twentieth, and your mind in the FERRO PHARMACY 575 Nott Str~et Schenectady, N. Y. FR 7-0510 FOUNTAIN SEqVICf One block from Brownell Gote Applications are available for the position of Resident ad visor, at the Office of Residence Programs, Fox House. Although few positions are anticipated to be open next year all interested .are encouraged to file applications for immediate and future reference. David King Gerald Hyman has won the Special Samuel T. Hehnh Roomate of the month award for February, the shortest month, congratulatiofis. lnteview the man from Huyck on February 23. He just may have your career in his portfolio. llig enough for oppor- tunity, small enough for recognition. HUYCK COMPANY. FELT NO, we are nor the MOST G LAMOFWUS JEWELER 111 town, but otn selecttan of DIA/1.10N DS, WATCHES, & JEWELRY 1Vilf match any. DAtE JEWELERS 163 JAY STREET SPEC/A L STUDENT DfSCOUNTSl OPEN tii 9.:00 TUES. & THURS. 372·0540 Don't forget Student Faculty Committee Applications: Student Activities Office. ~·--~~ · Student~ airfares to Europe start at $120 starting now Icelandic has the greatest travel bargain ever for stu· dents •.. our brand new $120* one-way fare to Luxembourg in the heart of Europe. If you're travelling to or from your studies at a fully accredited college or university, and are 31 years old or under, you qualify for this outstanding rate. It's an individual fare, not a charter or group; you fly whenever you want, and can stay up to a year. Inter· ested? Qualified? Call your travel agerit or write for Student Fare Folder CN. Icelandic Airlines, 630 Fifth Ave. (Rockefeller Center) New York, N.Y. 10020. *Slightly higher in peak season. · ICELANDIC AIRT~IN\?~s= ~ .lU.!f.LEJJJJlJ .STILL .LOWEST .AIRFARES :TO EUROPE , of any scheduled airline.

PAGE6 FEBRUARY 20, 1970 Reca·rds Fall Like Rain As Cagers Split Two Sheldon Out, Colgate Tough The Garnet hoopsters, who have been enjoying less than overwhelming s1:1ccess this season, ran away from Uitca College in the second half last night in the Fieldhouse to score a 111-99 victory. Tuesday night, however, the cagers dropped a 120-87 victory to Rochester. The Dutchmen are now 5-14. But the big stories both nights were supershot Jim Tedisco and the numerous records set in the two contests. Tuesday night, Tedisco poured in 23 points, pushing him past the mark for points in a season previously held by Toby Lustig. Rochester's 120 points set a Yellowjacket school record as well as the Garnet mark for most points by an opponent in a single game. Vermont had run up 116 against the Garnet in 1957. The combined record of 207 points, eclipsing this year's 106-98 Trinity loss, lasted only two days, as the 210 points last night set Union marks for any Garnet game and for most points scored in a single game in the Fieldhouse. The story last night was all Tedisco, as the potential All-American pumped in 49 points on 15 of 22 from the field and 1 9 of 23 from the foul line. In the process, the 5-8 sophomore established Union marks for Most Points in a game by a Union player anywhere, Most Points by a Union player in the Fieldhouse, Most individual Free Throws in a Fieldhouse game, and Most Free Throws by a Union player in a season (143). In addition, Tedisco upped his season marks for Most Field Goals and Most Points. The 111 points by the Dutchmen also set a new mark for most points by a Union team and Most Points by a Union team in the Fieldhouse. Utica's 99 established a new record for Most Opponent Points in the Fieldhouse. In traveling to Rochester, Union found itself up against a team with not one man under 6'3\ in height. The Garnet boasted but one starter as tall, 6'3\ center Rit Gallucci. The Yellowjackets have run up a I0-8 record, playing a part of their schedule against major-college competition. In the second session the Garnet cooled off consid~rably, and at the same time began to feel the height mismatch. The Yellowjackets constantly got two and three Basketball _Stats ' PLAYER G FG FGA % FT FTA % REB ASST PTS AVG Tedisco, 17 186 449 41 115 167 68 64 42 487 28.6 Shames, 17 54 125 53 25 40 63 68 57 133 7.7 Gallucci 17 47 101 47 22 54 40 228 7 116 6.8 Eichinger 17 44 102 43 18 21 86 60 9 106 6.2 Getman 16 38 119 32 6 12 50 88 17 82 5.1 Pezzano 17 30 54 56 14 28 50 53 7 74 4.4 Fitzgerald 16 24 68 36 21 31 68 40 1 69 4.4 •:ioldberg 17 27 64 42 14 24 58 48 9 68 4.0 FG FGA % FT FTA % REB AVG PTS AVG UN !.ON 495 1206 41 266 440 60.2 825 49.5 1255 73.8 Opponents 556 1244 45.9 324 446 72.6 881 51.8 1385 81.4 Tracksters Slated For Double Weekend Duty By GREG HAMLIN The Union thinclads face a hectic weekend when they travel to Rochester and Darmouth on Saturday and Sunday. respectively. The Dutchmen will be led in the meet by All-American Rich J aszczak, who will participate in both the sprint medley and 8 lap relays. Mike Rich should also make a strong showing in his specialty, the high jump. On Sunday the Garnet will compete in the Eastern Track Championships at Hanover, N.H. Jaszczak and Rich figure to be Union's best hopes in this meet also. The next home meet will be on February 28, when the tracksters take on the R. P. I. Engineers at the Field House. Meet time will be 1 :00 P.M. Graubart & Sons may run small ads, but they have big values. Schenectady's fomoU5 d•omond shop. for three generatoonsl 166 Joy St. Three Unoon Gratluate~ in Family. shots at the basket, and at one point took eight consec1:1tive shots without a turnover. By BILL HOLLERAN Union's hopes for a wrestling win against Colgate next Rochester hit 53 per cent Wednesday were dealt a severe blow this week when it was fron1 the floor to th.e decided that fresl1man 158 star Penn Sheldon would not westle Dutchmerr's 44 per cent, and for the rest of the season. outrebounded Union 75-37. Doctors deternri.ned that SheeHan's collarbone ligament Tonight, Union travels to ailment is in such a delicate condition that any further wrestling Troy to take on traditional this season might aggravate the injury and cause more serious rival R.P.I. Game time is 8 problems. Sheld(m indicated, however, that the injury is not P.M. The team's yearlin.g serious enough to affect his performance next year. squads will do battle in a Shel,don was the top freshman prospect on the team, along 6:30 preliminary. with 142 star ;Phil Reed, and was one of the squad's best The Union Freshmen performers before he was sidelined by the ligament injury after nearly copped their third wrestling at Kings Point. strrught win in a row but we1e Shel·don was the only undefeated and untied grappler on the stopped by a 10-3 Rochester tea.m squad before he popped the ligament out of his collarbone and in overtime, 89-83. The Garnet then popped it back while battling his Mariner opponent. The yearlings were down by -two injury was one of the factors leading to Sheldon's amazing 10-0 points with 17 seconds to play d when Curtis Rowe sank two foul emise in the bout. shots to tie the score at 77 all and Colgate is always tough for the Dutchmen, having defeated force the overtime. Union last season, while the Garnet edged the Raiders 19, 14 two Union managed an early lead seasons ago to wrap up a perfect 10-0 slate. in the extra five minute sessi<>n, The rest of the Garnet mat squad should be reasonably healthy but pulled up short. Jim Bolz ted for the Colgate tlit. Ron Ruhl, who is still bothered by a sore the Garnet Frosh with 24 points, back, should wrestle Wednesday, while Gary Morris, who injured while Mike Doyle pumped in 22 his knee in the Rochester match, will be ready to go. Bill Munno, and Bob Mitchell 15. Rowe h fmish~d with 10 . w o is presently recovering from a mild bout with the .flu, will The frosh also returned to also be healthy for the Colgate contest. their winning ways against tlle The Dutchmen were originally slated to face New Paltz Pioneers, as they scored a 92·60 tomorrow afternoon at Alumni Gym, but late scheduling laughter. John Van Benschoten difficulties resulted in the match's cancellation--a welcome respite led the yearlings with 18 poin1s. for Coach Gerry Everling and his injury-ridden grapplers before The frosh now stand at 5-7. tl1e Colgate match. Swim Crushed by RPI By BRUCE GARBER In the following event, the however, to take the hundred Falling to their lowest point of the season, the G a r n e t me r me n were swamped, 81-22, by the R.P.I. Engineers at Troy on Wednesday. It was the fourth consecutive loss for the Dutchmen, who seem to have lost the early season momentum which helped them to three straight wins and a tie. In the opening event, the relay combination of Gary Needel, Jon Horwath, Bob Szatrowski, and Steve Hill broke a regular-season school record after a two-week layoff, with a 3:59.6 med]ey relay time but were still surpassed by their Engmeer counterparts. THE PEANUT STORE Featuring PLANTERS HOT ROASTED PEANUTS and Nutmeals from all Oover the world. 406 STATE ST. DIAMANTE'S Enjoy Our Fine Home Cooked Italian Food in Ouo C~mfortoble Dining Room Opp. Tho Brownell Gato on NoH Strut Open De i.ly 10 io A.M. Sundays 5 P.M. to 1 A.M. 100 yard freestyle, all-round free after the diving, which star Burt Yankiver turned in was won by freshman John his best time of the season, Ludwig. Every other event only to be touched out on went to the Engineers who the last lap. The trend put on an amazing display of continued in the 50 free, as power and depth. Dave Seward's underwater Sa turd ay, the Garnet touch went unnoticed by the travel to Rochester to take on officals and he was handed a R.LT. and hopefully snap second place. their four-meet losing skein. Seward came back, HOLIDAY IDEAS I'd like more information on the following Holidays. --NASSAU CRUISE --CARIBBEAN CRUISE --HAWAII HOLIDAY --MEXICO HO L1 DAY --PUERTO RICO --FREEPORT --MIAMI BEACH --BERIVIUDA NAME ADDRESS CITY _________ STATE --...,.---- MAIL TO: Dorp Travel Agency 112 Railroad Street, Schenectady, New York·l230l l! ) VOLUME 0 By RICHA Saying to \help f Victor Rei students to against org The fm and nati• newspar speaking 1 sponsored Forum, ca be con destructiv{ against establishm enslave yo Ill eo \If ym your bla sisters, t: .• crime\. 1 illegal na taking 01 almost al • governme1 year, 224 York Cit, of narcoti Reise! crime, wh primarily moving ir industry, garbage c has inflt attorneys other \r \At hom€ never for organized place yo seeing it\ Remin that \I VI lhy time Reisel

970 1ext was stle 1ent ling .ous not ong Jest fter the and The i0-0 1ted two lthy sore ned mo, will 'altz ling pite fore ired 1ich ohn 1ent >Vho y of rnet eon map :ein. . - , VOLUME, 99 NO. 41 SCHENECTAD¥, NEW YORK, FBBRUARY 24, 1970 PRICE TWENTY CENTS tl ) Photo By George Kaplan Riesel Urges War On Organized Crime By RICHARD E. PATTERSON, JR. student and other radical · groups. He described the students for a Democratic Society (S.D.S) as ''unprogrammed, nihilistic, and just plain ignorant\. He said the Black Panthers would do better to fight organized crime in their neighborhoods, Saying that he had come to \help and to seek help,\ Victor Reisel yesterday urged students to join in the fight against organized crime. Continued on Page 3 A Birthday Tommorr,ow As College Reaches 175 Union College, the first colh:ge chartered by the state of New York, will mmk its 17Sth anniversary tomorrow. The Union charter, issued to a group of upstate citizens who had ple·dged their financial support, was approved by the Board of Regents of the University of the State of New York on Feb. 25, 1795. When word of the approval reached Schenectady later that day, citizens placed lighted candles m all their windows to signify success in their 1 5-year effort to secure a college for the frontier village. No such \grand illumination\ will mark the anniversary, but Schenectady Mayor Malcolm E. Ellis has proclaimed Feb. 25 Union College Charter Day. Though the college's birthday celebration will await more clement weather in the spring, a number of other public bodies have taken note of the anniversary. State Sen. Dalwin :J. Niles (R-Johnstown) and Assemblyman Stanley Steingut (D-Brooklyn), with the support of Assemblyman Davidson Fellow C l a r k C . W e m p 1 e education in New York (R-Schenectady), sponsored a State.\ joint resolution in the state He added, \For nearly 20() legislature honoringUnionon years, the college has its anniversary. Niles and contributed much to the Steingut are alumni of Union. making of America. I am Gov. Nelson A. confident that it will Rockefeller, a trustee continue to do so in the ex-officio of the college, centuries ahead.\ hailed Union's contribution [n Congress, Sen. Jacob K. to the state and nation. In a Javits (R-N.Y.) and Rep. letter to President Harold C. Daniel E. Button (R-N.Y.) Martin, he called Union the praised the college in remarks exemplar of the \creative placed in the Congressional partnership between public Record. education and private institutions that has remained a key element in higher Continued on Page- 3 Concordy Cuts Budget Treasury $2000 Richer Following negotiations late yesterday afternoon Concordiensis Editors-in- Chief William Ouzer and Henry Fein have returned $2000 of their Student Tax allocation to Student Government coffers. Citing the pressing need for more money to support Linebacker and Social Committee functions -officers o f t h e S t u d e n t Tax Committee asked the editors to re-assess their projected expenditures with an eye on cutbacks. The Editors, examining their budget concluded some modification in their printing schedule and increased advertising revenue this term would permit a rebate of some $2000. The famed labour leader and nationally syndicated newspaper columnist, speaking before a gathering sponsored by the Political Forum, called on students to be constructive, not destructive, and \to fight against those in the establishment who want to enslave you\. . . · Myrdal Arrives Thursday The reallocation of some $2000 from one activity is unprecedented. Tax Committees have regularly reviewed mid-year expenditures but never have they gotten back so much money from one activity,. in this case almost twenty percent of their original allocation. Illegal Narcotics \If you want to fight for your black brothers and sisters, take on organized ·• crime\. He said that the illegal narcotics trade was taking out of the ghetto almost as much money as ·' government aid put in. Last year, 224 teenagers in New York City died of overdoses of narcotics, he said. Reise} said that organized crime, which he referred to as primarily Cosa Nostra, in moving into the construction industry, medical centers, garbage collection, and even has influence over district attorneys, congressmen, and other \respectable people\. \At home,\ he said, \you can never forget the fight against organized crime. There is no place you can turn without seeing it\. ~ Reminding his audience · that \I was a revolutionist in lhy time\ the 53 year olq Reisel heaped scorn on Gunnar Myrdal, internationally prominent economist, social scientist and author whose 1944 book The American Dilemma was among the first to identify the racial issue as a major problem in the United States, will lecture at Union Thursday, Feb. 26. Myrdal, who currently is director of the Institute of International Economic Studies at the University of Stockholm, Sweden, will reappraise his analysis of the American racial climate and situation in his address scheduled for 8:30 p.m. in the chapel. The lecture is part of a three-day stay at Union under the auspices of the Davidson Fellows program which brings r1istinguished scholars to the campus. The Swedish social scientist will spend much of Thursday and Friday as well as Saturday morning meeting and speaking to Union students in cla~ses and small group discussions. The American Dilemma was written as a result of a four year study of American Negro Problems sponsored by the Carnegie Corporation. The two volume work outlines types of discrimination and envisions integration and eventual assimilation as the solution to American racial problems. A specialist in international economics, Professor Myrdal has written numerous other books and articles. Some of his more recent prominent works are Economics Theory and Underdeveloped Nations, An International Economy: Problems and Prospects, Rich Lands and Poor: The Road to World Prosperity, and Beyond the Welfare State: A Challenge to Affluence. After graduating fr0m the University of Stockholm in 1 921 , Myrdal began his professional career as a lawyer. He received a doctorate in economics from the University of Stockholm in 1927. He has been recognized for his work in the social sciences both in the United States and Europe and has received numerous awards and honorary degrees from learned societies and colleges and universities on both sides of the Atlantic. The Davidson Fellows program at the college was established in 1968 in memory of the late Carter Davidson, who served as president of Union from 194R to l 964. Myrdal is the second Davidson Fellow. Harvard biologist and Nobel laureate George Wald was the first. The editors commented further, \This reflects the increasing financial in de p end en c e of the newspaper. We have regularly derived at least half of our operating revenue fran sources outside the tax committe e , m o s t ly advertisement and subscriptions, but this move puts us well over .that half~way mark and closer to being entirely on our own.\ Tax Committee members, clearly expressing th.eir \delight\ at the return of allocated funds, could not immediately say where they would use them. They stressed that the impovtant thing was that now some money was available. I I I i'

PAGE 2 Happy Birthday! Union College will be 17 5 years old tornmww. This birthday is perhaps best celebrated by the flaunting of tradition and so most appropriately we turn our .attention to what that traditicn is, and what it teaches, quite strongly, for the present and the future. We must respect those 175 years, and respect them by learning f:rom them. The ~lessons are not elusive. We began strongly, and moved to place of prominence. We educated many leaders ofthe mid-nineteenth century and were pioneers in curriculum revision and integration of disciplines. In the second halfof that century w.e faltered, and we faltered because we didn't adapt, change our coarses, our view of o11r purpose, the design and intent of our education. This century saw a slow ascendence, a rise which we might guess is at its crucial point now. We have been progressing sirl.ce 1900, we have moved through two long presidencies, not always good ones, and emerged a respected institution of higher learning, with an excellent facufty, a bright but uninspired and uninspiring student body, ever improving facilities and an administrati<m which declines in efficacy from top to bott<>m. Viewing this then, we fmd ourselves the heirs of two important messages from our honored past. Innovate, ex:periment, change and adapt and flourish.. Stagnate, sit-back, never re-think what you are doing and wily you are doing it and you fail, become sterile and nearly useless. An officer of the college has claimed that we get rid of more tradition here every year than most schools have to begin with. What he meant was that fewer freshmen paint the idol, fewer students wear Block U hair cuts during football seasons, and that Chapel is no longer compulsory. That kind of tradition we have, perhaps, let drown out the more important messages of our tradition, that urging innovation and re-ex!lllli.nation. If we could only get the alumnae to forgo the smaller tradition for the sake of the larger, and get the administration to cater more to the larger than the smaller we could have our eyes continually open to important issues of educational purpose and not diverted to the rapid pageantry of passing the jug, or painting the idol. Once so permitted to take an open view tltere are several major questions which we must answer and answer well. First of these is what sort of Student-Teacher relationship we want to foster. Is it tile purpose of an undergraduate 'edu.cation to provide knowledgeable lecturers, well equipped to communicate with students and evaluate their work, or do we want something more than this? Have we constructed artificial differences between teacher and student? Has the classroom-lecture-exam system we have become so accustomed to, outlived its usefulness? Does the current system enable . students to learn from their teachers as scholars but prohibit them, by taboo or some other false god or pretense, from learning from their teach.ers as individuals? So many of us here are in a such a hurry to be elsewhere, shouldn't there be those who stop and make us ask why? Shouldn't they be our teachers? Beyond this most pressing problem, the one which effects what we will offer to teach and how we will proceed to teach it lie other problems. Is our two faced view of parietals absurd? What rules will we enforce? What rules will exist merely for show? We can also ask about the style of campus life, what the next generation of campus dormitories will l>e like, are fraternities hanging on past their point of just survival? There are many questions; we offer fe-w answers. The right to ask and try to answer these questions belongs to all: student, faculty and administrator; so doe& the obligation. The matrix of our answers adds up to what Union College is and will be. The most important lesson of our tradition is change, adapt, innovate. In our attempt to answer how, we will determ:ine our success or failure as a college and thas determine a vital part of the an.swer to whether or not there will be a future at all. FEBRUARY 24., 1970 Letters to the' Editor ' . '\ To the Editors: Those of us on the Overseas Work Camp Committee were disappointed last year in the small number of Union .st11dents who express~d an interest in a Summer Work Camp experience. Sponsored by the American Friends Service Committee, these camps offer an unusual opportunity for undergraduates to combine foreign travel wi1h a service opportunity - with the additional benefit of working with and Hving among students frorn tluoughout the world. D1:1ring the coming Summer, camps will be held in Europe, Africa, and Latin America. Any non-graduating student is welc()me to apply, and the Union College committee has some funds available to help offset costs. Any student interested in investing his summer in this kind of human experience is encouraged to obtain further information and application forms from either Henry Smith (who spent last summer in Mrica) or Profs. Snider (Silliman Hall) or myself (Social Sciences). The deadline for application is February 27. Byron A. Nic.hols Chairman, Overseas Workcamp Committee To t!Je Editors: As Union College students who pay rent for dormitory rooms, we are concerned about the Administration's apparent lack of concern over recent thefts in dormitories and fraternities. Numerous robberies over the past few months have brought little or no action from the Administration. We consider it to be the obligation of the College to provide its students with a room in which personal can be kept safely. It seems to us that the ease of obtaining a master key from any Resident Advisor is a major problem. Resident Advisors should, but often do not accompany the student who borrows the master key, to his room. This enables a student (or non· student) to have access to any room in the dormitory. Also, a number of master keys have been lost in recent years. We urge that the Administration take action to provide students with more protection against theft. One solution might be to change the locks in Fox and Davidson, where most of the thefts have occurred. Resident Advisors should also be urged to accompany students to their rooms when lending master keys. Surely the cost of implementing a more stringent security program will not exceed the cost of allowing present thefts to continue. William Beals '72 Harris Samuels '72 Peter Weis '72 Jay Aust '72 George Kaplan '72 The Biolo!Jy department is sponsoring a seminar entitled \Health Manpower\ on Friday, February 27 at 4:30p.m. in Be~iley Hall Room 304. The speakers will be Dr. Julia L Freitag and Dr. Donald C. Walker, a Union alumnus, from the New York State Departn1ent of Health. They will discuss Car~er opportunities and problems involved in allied health professions. Refreshments will be served at 4 o'clock. Professor Twitty J. Styles of the Biology department urged that all interested students attend the seminar which he said was of value not only to pre-Meds. The health professions need social scientists as well as physician& amt many students are not aware that they might have a future in some allied health profession. THE RIGHT PERSON IN THE RIGHT CAREER This is more than our Motto· it's our Promise to you. We're constantly in contact with t\e Nation's most Progressive Firms and we know where the openings are both locally & nationally. Stop in at our modern offices. 1/Ve•re here to help you. M·ost positions are fee paid. DOUGLAS BOSTONIAN • BATES • WALL·STREETER HUSH PUPPIES • WALK-OVER • SEBA~MOCS MANSFIELD • SNOW & AFTER SKI BOOTS Phone FR 4·8577 319 State Street Schenectady, N.Y. S1 OFF PURCHASE OF SHOES UPON PRESENTATION OF I. D. CARD To the Editors: As a junior who has eaten regularly at the West College Cafeteria, I have seen many people cutting in line, often times in front of me. Therefore, l can readily sympathize with the complaint made by Mr. James Meyer in Concordiensis (February 20, 1970). However, I weuld disagree with the way in which he specifically picked out black students as being the vi o 1 at or s, giving. the impression that white students aren't guilty as well. He has a legitimate gripe, but it should be directed to all those guilty of this behavior · regarless of race, creed or national origin. Michel Adefumi Williams '71 The cure for cancer. If you put up tlie money, we'll put up the brains. I The people and the tools it will take to find the cure for cancer are going to cost a lot of money. More money than dimes and dollar bills can provide. It's going to take substantial contributions to do the job. From people who are in a position to give us the kind of help we need. And that, gentlemen, is why we're talking to you a bout it. i American Cancer Society Fight cancer with a checkup and a check. ® ------------ FEBRU:AH Sa1 PJ ByMIC .. l\he p: Cuckoo!\ Go1lub Mounteba1 Machiavell comedy c husband,'\ Set i Florence, c en t·en machin: handsome to secure private re Madonna her imi spouse, is the joys then agre€ f ertilisatic from the However, sleep wi1 dosage \s duped Therefor \kidnap\ minstrel, turns out of the R Liguria) C The in sense oft for such masterful theno sm Liguria. ' never let1 captains cunning s Mark cast as th gave a improvisa ballerina bird-in-fli and tedic Callimacc meairsic] Rosen the c chu rch-l adequat Eddy, wl very artf and dam informs preser scb.edult the Ri floor postpor presentc 7:30. Ren~ financia year 19 at th.e ( Old < Monda~ Office l noon a p.m. M The being tluougl yearbo~ 5:00p. Stuc invited accorr Union April I

PAGE 2 Happy Birthday! Union College will \}e 175 years old tomorrow. This birthday is perhaps best celebrated by the flaunting of tradition and so most appropriately we turn our attention to what that tradition is, and what it teaches, quite strongly, for the present ami the future. We must respect those 175 years, and respect them by learning from them. The lessons are not elusive. We began strongly, and moved to place of prominence. We educated many leaders of the mid-nineteenth century and were pioneers in curriculum revision ami integration of disciplines. In the second half of that century we faltered, and we faltered because we didn't adapt, change our courses, our view of our purpose, the design and intent of our education. This century saw a slow ascendence, a rise which we might guess is at its crucial point now. We have been progressing since 1900, we have moved through two long presidencies, not always good ones, and emerged a respected institution of higher learning, with an excellent facufty, a bright but uninspired and uninspiring student body, ever improving facilities and an administration which declines in efficacy from top to bottom. Viewing this then, we find ourselves the heirs of two important messages from our honored past. Innovate, experiment, change and adapt and flourish. Stagnate, sit-back, never re-think what you are doing and why you are doing it and you fail, become sterile and nearly useless. An officer of the college has claimed that we get rid of more tradition here every year than most schools have to begin with. What he meant was that fewer freshmen paint the idol, fewer students wear Block U hair cuts during football seasons, and that Chapel is no longer compulsory. That kind of tradition we have, perhaps, let drown out the more important messages of our tradition, that urging innovation and re-examination. If we could only get the alumnae to forgo the smaller tradition for the sake of the larger, and get the administration to cater more to the larger than the smaller we could have our eyes continually open to important issues of educational purpose and not diverted to the rapid pageantry of passing the jug, or painting the idol. Once so permitted to take an open view there are several major questions which we must answer and answer well. First of these is what sort of Student-Teacher relationship we want to foster. Is it the purpose of an undergraduate ·education to provide knowledgeable lecturers, well equipped to communicate with students and evalt,1ate their work, or do w.e want something more than this? Have we constructed artificial differences between teacher and student? Has the classroom-lecture-exam system we have become so accustomed to, outlived its usefulness? Does the current system enable students to learn from their teachers as scholars but prohibit them, by taboo or some other false god or pretense, from learning from their teachers as individuals? So many of us here are in a such a hurry to be elsewhere, shouldn't there be those who stop and make us ask why? Shouldn't they be our teachers? Beyond this most pressing problem, the one which effects what we will offer to teach and how we will proceed to teach it lie other problems. Is our two faced view of parietals absurd? What rules will we enforce? What rules will exist merely for show? We can also ask about the style of campus life, what the next generation of campus dormitories will be like, are fraternities hanging on past their point of just survival? There are many questions; we offer few answers. The right to ask and try to answer these questions belongs to all: student, faculty and administrator; so does the obligation. The matrix of our answers adds up to what Union College is and will be. The most important lesson of our tradition is change, adapt, innovate. In our attempt to answer how, we will determine our success or failure as a college and thus determine a vital part of the answer to whether or not there will be a future at all. FEBRUARY 24, 1970 I • • I letters to -the- Ed it or · ~ r - ' To the Editors: Those of us on the Overseas Work Camp Committee were disappointed last year in the small number of Union students who ex press~d an interest in a Summer Work Camp experience. SponsoFed by the American Friends Service Committee, these camps offer an unusual opporttmity for undergraduates to combine foreign travel with a service opportunity - with the additional benefit of working with and living among students from throughout the world. During the coming Summer, camps will be held in Europe, Africa, and Latin America. Any non-graduating student is welcome to apply, and the Union College committee has some funds available to help -offset costs. Any student interested in investing his summer in this kind of human experience is encouraged to obtain further information and application forms from either Henry Smith (who spent last summer in Africa) or Profs. Snider (Silliman Hall) or myself (Social Sciences). The deadline for application is February 27. Byron A. Nic.hols Chairman, Overseas Workcamp Committee To t!'le Editors: As Union College students who pay rent for dormitory rooms, we are concerned about the Administration's apparent lack of concern over recent thefts in dormitories and fraternities. Numerous rohbleries over the past few months have brought little or no action from. the Administration. We consider it to be the obLigation of the Coll:ege to provide its students with a room in which personal can be kept safely. It seems to us that the ease of obtaining a master key from. any Resident Advisor is a major problem. Resident Advisors should, but often do not accompany the student who borrows the master key, to his room. This enables a student (or non- student) to have access to any room in the dormitory. Also, a number of master keys have been lost in recent years. We urge that the Administration take action to provide students with more protection against theft. One solution might be to change the locks in Fox and Davidson, where most of the thefts have occurred. Resident Advisors should also be urged to accompany students to their rooms when lending master keys. Surely the cost of implementing a more stringent security program will not exceed the cost of allowing present thefts to continue. William Beals '72 Harris Samuels '72 Peter Weis '72 Jay Aust '72 George Kaplan '72 The Biology department is sponsoring a semi11ar entitled \Health Manpower\ on Friday, February 27 at 4:30p.m. in Bailey Hall Room 304. The speakers will be Dr. Julia L. Freitag and Dr. Donald C. Walker, a Union alumnus, from the New YDrk State Department of Health. They will discuss Car~er opportunities and problems involved in allied health professions. Refreshments will be served at 4 o'clock. Professor Twitty J. Styles of the Biology department urged that all interested students attend the semi11ar which he said was of value not only to pre-Meds. The health professions need social scientists as well as physicians and many stl.idents are not aware that they might have a future in some allied health profession. THE RIGHT PERSON IN THE RIGHT CAREER This is more than our Motto· it's our Promise to you. We're constantly in contact with the Nation's most Progressive Firms and we know where the openings are both locally & nationally. Stop in at our modern offices. We're here to help you. Most positions are fee paid. DOUGLAS BOSTONIAN' BATES • WALL-STREETER HUSH PUPPIES' WALK OVER* SEBAG,O-MOCS MANSFIELD* SNOW & AFTER SKI BOOTS Phone FR 4-8577 319 State Street Schenectady, 1\J. Y. $1 OFF PURCHASE OF SHOES UPON PRESENTATION OF I. D. CARD Te the:Editors: As a junior who has eaten regularly at the West College Cafeter-ia, I have seen many people cutting in line, often times in front of me. Therefore, I can readily sympathize with the complaint made by Mr. James Meyer in Concordiensis (February 20, 1970). However, I would disagree with the way in which he SIDecifically picked out black students as being the vio,lat ors, giving the impression that white students aren't guilty as well. He has a legitimate gripe, but it should be directed to all those guilty of this behavior - regarless of race, creed or national origin. .. 1: !. Michel Adefumi Williams '71 The cure for cancerm lfyouput up tlie money, we'll put up the brains. The people and the tools it will take to find the cure for cancer are going to cost a lot of money. More money than dimes and dollar bills can provide. It's going to take substantial contributions to do the job. From people who are in a position to give us the kind of help we need. And that, gentlemen, is why we're talking to you about it. i American Cancer Society Fight cancer with a checkup and a check. ® . I_ PEBHUAR By MH \The p Cuckoo!\ Gol1ab Mounteba Machiavel comedy husband,' Set i Florence, center mach in handsome to secure private n Madonna her im: spouse, h the joys then agre f ertilisa ti1 from th1 However, sleep wi dosage \~ dLiped Therefo \kidnap\ minstrel, turns out of the F Liguria) ( Their sense of· for such masterful the no sn Liguria. never let captains cunning~ Mark cast as tl gave improvis1 ballerina bird·in·fl and tedi< Callirnac, me airsic Roser the < church- adequa1 Eddy, w very art and dorr inform: e prese: schedul the R floor postpo! present 7:30. Ren financi; year 1~ at the Old Monda Office noon~ p.m. N The being throug yearbc S:OOp Stu invitee accor Union April

A: en nsis he the the but all or '71 • s it will cancer and From tion to e need. why ® i PAGE 3 FEBRUARY 24, 1970 Satire in ''The Mandrake\ The Colle·ge At 175 Nistiguan.a's Favorite Produces A Comedy Hit Continued from Page 1 . Colum'lhia (1754), Union opened for business in the fall of 1795. lt was housed in a single building at Union and Ferry Streets which had formerly. been the home of Schenectady Academy. In 1804 it mo,ved a block up the street to trie \Stone 'college\ designed by Phillip Hooker and located at Union and College Str~ets, alongside what would soon become the Erie Canal. ByMICH.ELE VOTliS daughter. that \a childless unsuspecting. woman ts no better than a The gay, tongue-in-cheek Sen. Javits noted the college's many creative innovations in education and service, while Rep. 'Button discussed the alumni of th.e college who ha'\;t.·<'served the country. He ' noted tll.e presence in · the current Congress. of a Union alumnus, Rep. JohnS. Wold (RWyo.). \T'he password shall be St. Cuckoo!\ exclaimed Spencer G.o1luh during the Mountebank's pvesentation o{ Machiavelli's a la Moliere comedy of the cuckolded husband, \The Mandrake.\ Set in 16th century Florence, the gentle satire cent·ers around the machinations of the handsome young Callimaco to secure the pleasures of a private rendezvous with the Madonna Lucrezia. Calfucci, her impotent and aged spouse, is first convinced of the joys of parenthood. He then agrees to give his wife a fertilisation-promoting drug from the mandrake plant. However, the first man to sleep with her after the dosage \shall die\ or so the duped husband is told. Therefore, he agrees to \kidnap\ an \unsuspecting\ minstrel, who incidentally turns out to be (with the help of the Renaissance con-man Liguria) Callimaco. The intensity and compact sense of timing vitally needed for such a performance is masterfully executed, with the no small help of Golub, as Liguria. The likeable rogue, never letting the scene drag, captains the activities with cunning showmanship. Mark Boylan, supposedly cast as the infatuated gallant, gave a much better improvisation of the lead ballerina in Swan Lake. His bird-in-flight arm flappings, and tedious interpretation of Callimaco's frustration made me airsick. Rosemary Sykes, cast as the charming and church-going Madonna is adequately demure. Joan Eddy, who plays her mother, very artfully portrays a wry and domineering matron who informs her frightened Blither The film workshop presentation originally scheduled for Wed. Feb. 25 in the Richmond House, 3rd floor lounge has been postponed a week. It will be presented Wed. March 4 at 7:30. Renewal applications for financial aid for the academic year 1970-71 will be available at the Office of Student Aid, Old Gym Hall, starting Monday, March 2, 1970. Office hours are 9:00 a.m. to noon and 1:00 p.m. to 4:30 p.m. Monday through Friday. The 1969 Union Book is being distributed Monday tluough Thursday in the yearbook office at 3: 00 to 5:00p.m. Students and faculty are invited to submit literary accomplishments to The Union Book '70. Deadline is AprillO. lost dog!\ Charles Bardsley, attitudes of the townspeople, equally convincing as the and the set-up of the scenery e a s y - go i n g , \ Bib 1 e (on one side ofthe stage is a loop-ho~e.r\ Friar Timoteo, chapel, on the other is a consents ·to join 'in the fun. house i· qf .prostitution), pay He reassures the Madonna, their multi-colored respects tha·t her impending sin to satire with true romantic (adultery) will be easily abandon. \washed away with a. little The Mountebanks will holy water.\ Alfred Steward, repeat \The Mandrake\ this as the whimsical and Thursday, Friday and knock-kneed cucltold, is Saturday evenings. Junior in New Yotk State only to the royally-chartered brilliantly crotchety, and Buber Scholar Friedman o .. 1YJlt~P~!l~; ~!f.!e ,lY, m«:p~!d way to Professor of Religion at Calabria, who has heard him a general audience.\ Temple University widely speak in classroom and \I hope the students turn known for his translation and formal lectures, Dr. Friedman out for this, because if they interpretation of the works of is \very scholarly, very don't they're the ones who Jewish philosopher Martin involved; he's lucid and he's are losing.\ ProfessorCalabria Buber, will address a profound. It's ajoy to find a added. He said he hoped to convocation at 8 p.m. guy who is so knowledgeable open the floor to questions tomorrow in Memorial in all areas of religion and after the talk, emphasizing Chapel. p s y c h o 1 o g y an d that \this is where Dr. Dr. Friedman will speak theology--both East and Friedman is really in his on his recent revision of his West.\ element.\ p o p u 1 a r book, The Professor Calabria, who Dr. Friedman, who knew Problematic Rebel. The book originally recommended that Buber personally, is the is in frequent use at Union, Dr. Friedman be asked here author of Martin Buber: The including Prof. Frank as a cenvocation speaker, Life of Dialogue and the Calabria's social psychology praised his ability \to speak forthcoming Martin Buber: course. to the human condition and Encounter on the Narrow R • I A • t c • Ridge, among other volumes. lese gainS .r1me ~:n-~ 1 ~~wnha\nt:~~~~or; ContinuedfromPage 1 essay to Buber's The present judicial system, Knowledge of Man, which he rather than police or the courts. He deplored the reference to judges or policement as \facist pigs\ and compared those who use their epithets to others who use such racist ones as \nigger or kike or wop.\ Calling a policeman a \pig\ is \the worst kind of defamation I have come across,\ he noted. Dignity of Courts Referring to the recent riot conspiracy trial of the \Chicago 7\ Reisel said \I don't think it takes much courage to stand up in court and sneer at a 7 4 year old judge.\ If you destroy the dignity of the Courts and the 'however imperfect,\ he said, translated. \this same weapons of facism Bub er himself once will be turned against you\· characterized Dr. Friedman's Reisel said he didn't think The life of Dialogue as \the there was a \generation gap, classic study of my thought.\ because if there is, you're \On a rather multifarious going to get there and fall in work,\ Buber said, ~'he ha~ • it\. ln a question and answer not imposed an artificial period following his remarks, unity: he has disclosed the he vigorously deniel;l that his ;;··-)ridden one.\ generation had \failed\ the Other general works by -~ present one. Dr. Friedman include The Didn't Fail Worlds of Existeritialism: A \We didn't fail you. We Critical Reader, and To Deny took this society and gave it a 0 u r N 0 t h i n g n e s s : remarkable thrust. We only Contemporary I mages of hope you'll take it and continue forward,\ he said. Man. Oiedifieate EAT- IN 'iwlc.fcoolc In 1813-14, after the French architect Joseph-Jacques Ramee had designed for Union the first architect u rally-.planned campus in the country, the college moved to its present grounds on Nistiquona Hill. Over the years the college has had many other real estate holdings, ranging from Fort Ticonderoga to much of the lower east side of Manhattan. Less than .. a century ago, Union owned nearly all of the Long Island City section of Queens. From an original graduating class of four in 1797, Union swiftly grew to be one of the country's larger colleges. In 1825 it graduated more students th~n any other in the country. · The college went into a steep decline after the Civil War, and by the late 1880's it had fewer students than it had had seniors a half-century earlier. SENIORS Last · chan,_ce for formal yea-rbook 1portrci-i.ts - Wednesday and Thursday in H.H. Lounge sign up in Student Activities Office Sitting Fee $3.00 TAKE- OUT Those students who wish to apply for committee positiohs mu!lt submit their applications to the Student Activities Office by March 2. The committees seeking new members are the fax Committee, Social Committee, Admissions Committee, and Ciricular Affairs Committee. THE AREA'S FAVORITE ANSWER TO DINNER OR LUNCH. EVERYTHING FROM A SIMPLE SNACK TO A COMPLETE DINNER WITH ALL THE FIXIN'S FOR ONE OR ONE HUNDRED. Professional: Typing S,erYi(e IBM Selectric. Greek and Math symbols. Choice of type style. Experienced in typing Doctoral theses. R e a s o n;a b I e r a t e s . Dependable. Call 489-.6978 any time. SPECIALIZING IN FRIED CHICKEN & SEA FOOD SPECIALTIES ROAST BEEF, CO_f3NED BEEF, PASTRAMI, SUBMARINES, & OTHER FINE SANDWI.CHES;SOUPS.DESSERTS & BEVERAGES. THIS CERTIFI :ATE WORTH 25rl ON ANY LUNCH HOUR (11 a.m.-3 p.m.} ORDER OF 75Q, OR WORTH 50f/ ANYTIME ON ANY. ORDER OF $1.50. LIMIT ONE PER PERSON. C'7!, When cookingrsout ... Kwik-Kook's in 393-6131 . V~ __ •t.., k k · , OPEN 1315ErieBivd. KWJA• 00 11:00a.m.-11:00p.m. (At Boulevard Bowl) · 7 days This certificate not valid toward purchase of specials -....,.... .... .._. ..... ~..,......~

r ! I I ' 1.· ften '· me. the he the the but all or • it will cancer money. and From ition tc need. is why it. i iety ® . i •I; PAGE 3 FEBRUARY 24, a9Hl' Satire in ''The Mandrake'' Produces A Comedy Hit The Co·llege A.t 175 Nistiguana's Favor:ite Continued from Page 1 - Cotumbia (1754), Unioll 0pened for business in the fall of 1795. It was housed in a. single building at Union a.nd. Ferry Streets which lud. formerly been the home of Schenectady Academy. Ill 1804 it mo.ved a block up the street to the \Stone College•• designed by Phillip Hooker and located at Union <tncl College Str~ets, alongside what would soon become the Erie CanaL By MI,CH'ELE VOf'liS daughter. that \a childless unsuspecting. woman ts no better than a The gay, tongue-in-cheek Sen. Javits noted the college's many creative innovations in education and service, while Rep. Button discussed the alumni of the college who hav~e·. served the country. He' noted the presence in ·the current Congress of a Union alumnus, Rep. John S. Wold (R-Wyo.)_ \The password shall be St. Cuckoo!\ exclaimed S..p~ncer Golwb during the Mountebank's preserrta tion of Machiave1li's a la N\()liere comedy of the Cl!Ck()lded husband, \The Mandralke.\ Set in 16th ceat\lry Florence, the gentle ~;atire centers around the mach ina tio ns o:f the handsome young Callirnll.co to secure the pleas11!'es of a private renclezvous wjfu. the Madonna Lucrezia. C::alfucci, her impotent a:ml a~ed spouse, is first con\inced of the joys of parentho·od.. lie then agrees to give his wife a f ertilisation-promotin~ drug from the mandrake planL However, the first rna:n to sleep with her aftoer the dosage \shall die\ or SC) the dt~ped husband is t()ld_ Therefore, he agr~es to \kidnap\ an \unsusP'ec ting\ minstrel, who in cideotally turns out to be (witll the help of the Renaissance ~oa-man Ligurio) Callimaco. The intensity and ~ompact sense of timing vitll.lly needed for such a perform..ance is masterfully execll ted!, with the no small help of G-olub, as Liguria. The likeable rog;ue, never letting the scene dcag, captains the activjties with cunning showmanship. Mark Boylan, s11poposedly cast as the infatuated gallant, gave a m u ch bet te r improvisation of the lead ballerina in Swan Lake. His bird-in-flight arm tl;appings, and tedious interpret.:atiion of Callimaco's frustratiOon made me airsick. Rosemary Sykes, cast as the charmJng; and church-going :Madonna is aclequately demure. Joan Eddy, who plays llCJr mother, very artfully portray-s a Vlry and domineering matro:nwho informs her frightened Blith-er The film Wo()f k~hop presentation ori~io,ally scheduled for Wed. Reb. 25 in the Richmond ilause, 3rd floor lounge Ius; been postponed a week It will be presented Wed. N~rc:h 4 at 7:30. Renewal applica.tions f0r financial aid for the academic year 1970-71 will be a-vailable at the Office of Stwd~nt Aid, Old Gym Hall, starting Monday, Marcil \2 1970_ Office hours are 9: 00 a. m. to noon and 1 :00 p.m. to 4: 30 p.m. Monday tbrou~ Friday. The 1969 I!Jni01n Book is being distributed Nonday through Thursday- in the yearbook office at 3:01)) to 5:00p.m. Students and f;aculty are invited to subJhit literary accomplishments to The Union Book '70- Deadline is AprillO. lost clog!\ Charles Bardsley, attitudes of the townspeople, equally convincing as the and the set-up of the scenery e as y - g o i n g , ' ' Bible (on one side of the stage is a loop-ho~er\ Friar Timoteo, chapel, on the other is a consents to join 'in the fun. house,. qf prostitution), pay He reassures the Madonna, their multi-colon:id Jespects that N.er impending sin to satire with true romantic (acl ultery) will be easily abandon. \waskecl away with a little The Mountebanks will holy water.\ Alfred Steward, repeat \The Mandrake\ this as the whimsical and Thursday, Friday and kBtock-kneed cuckold, is Saturday evenings. Jlinior in New York State only to the royally-c.hartered brilliantly crotchety, and Huber Scholar Friedman Dr .1Y~lt§Pfl!J~ !l~~!e ,~ m~p!!:nd w'Y to Professor of Religion at Calabria, who has h.eard him a general audience.\ Temple University widely speak in classroom and \I hope the students turn known for his translation and formal lectures, Dr. Friedman out for this, because if they interpretation of the works of is \very scholarly, very don't they're the ones who Jewish philosopher Martin involved; he's lucid and he's are losing.\ Professor Calabria Buber, will address a profound. It's a joy to find a added. He said he hoped to convocation at 8 p.m. guy who is so knowledgeable open the floor to questions tomorrow in Memorial in all areas of religion and after the talk, emphasizing Chapel. p s y c h o 1 o g y a n d that \this is where Dr. Dr. Friedman will speak theology--both East and Friedman is really in his on his recent revision of his West.\ element.\ p o p u l a r book, The Professor Calabria, who Dr. Friedman, who knew Problematic Rebel. The book originally recommended that Buber personally, is the is in frequent use at Union, Dr. Friedman be asked here author of Martin Buber: The including Prof. Frank as a convocation speaker, Life of Dialogue and the Calabria's social psychology praised his ability \to speak forthcoming Martin Suber: course. to the human condition and Encounter on the Narrow I • I A • t c • Ridge, among other volumes. lese ga inS rlmie He also has written a · well-known introductory Continued from Page 1 rather than police or the courts. He deplored the reference to judges or policement as \facist pigs\ and compared those who use their epithets to others who use such racist ones as \nigger or kike or wop.\ Calling a policeman a \pig\ is \the worst kind of defamation I have come across,\ he noted. Dignity of Courts Referring to the recent riot conspiracy trial of the \Chicago 7\ Reisel said \I don't think it takes much courage to stand up in court and sneer at a 7 4 year old judge.\ If you destroy the dignity of the Courts and the essay to Bu be r' s The present judicial system, Knowledge of Man, which he 'however imperfect,\ he said, translated. \thissameweapon!;offacism Buber himself once will be turned against you\· characterized Dr. Friedman's Reise! said he didn't think The Life of Dialogue as \the there was a \generation gap, classic study of my thought.\ because if there is, you're \On a rather multifariou~ going to get there and fall in work,\ Buber said, \he ha~ • it\·. In a ques~ion ~d answer not imposed an artificial pen~d followmg ~ts remark~, unity: he has disclosed the he vigorously demed that his . _ .. hidden one \ generation had \failed\ the ' · Other general works by present one. Dr. Friedman include The Didn't Fail Worlds of Existentialism: A \We didn't fail you. We Critical Reader, and To Den-, took this society and gave it a 0 u r N 0 t h i n 9 n e 5 5 : remarkable thrusL We only Contemporary Images of hope you'll tak~ it and M continue forward,?' he said. an. C!tertificab EAT- IN iw.1c:.koolc In 1813-14,. after the French architect Joseph-Jacques Ramee had designed for Union the first architect u rally-plann.ed campus in the country, ;the college moved to its prescent grounds on Nistiquona lJill. Over the years the college has had many other reaJ estate holdings, ranging frtOm Fort Ticonderoga to mucl:1. of the lower east side of Manhattan. Less than a century ago, Union owned 11early all of the Long Island City section of Queens. From an original graduating class of four in 1 797, Union swiftly grew to be one of the country's lat;\g~r colleges. In 1825 it gradu~tted more students than any other in the country. · The college went int~ a steep decline after the Civil War, and by the late 1880's it had fewer students than it had had seniors a half-century earlier. SENIORS Last chan,_ce for fol'mal yearbook ;portr<Hts · Wednesday and Thur!Sday in H.H. Lounge sign liP in Student Activities Oifi ce Sitting Fee $3.00 TAKE- OUT Those students who wish to apply for committee positions must submit their applications to the Student Activities Office by March 2. The committees seeking new members are the Tax Committee, Social Committee, Ad missions Committee, and Ciricular Affairs Committee. THE AREA'S FAVORITE ANSWER TO DINNER OR LUNCH. EVERYTHING FROM A SIMPLE SNACK TO A COMPLETE DINNER WITH ALL THE FIXIN'S FOR ONE OR ONE HUNDRED. Professional' Typing Service IBM Selectric. Greek and Math symbols. Choice of type style. Experienced in typing Doctoral theses. R e as o n,a b I e rates. Dependable. Call 489-6978 any time. SPECIALIZING IN FRIED CHICKEN & SEAFOOD SPECIALTIES ROAST BEEF, COf::'NED BEEF, PASTRA.MI., SUBMARINES, & OTHER FINE SANDWICHES~ SOUPS, DESSERTS & BEVERAGES. THIS CERTIFI 'ATE WORTH 25d 0/IJ ANY LUNCH HOUR (11 a4m.-3 p.m.) ORDER OF 75¢, OR 'NORTH 50u' ANYTIME ON ANY ORDER OF $1.50. LIMIT ONE PER PERSON. C) When cooking's out .•. Kwik-Kook's in . 393·6131 . -~ _ -•1.- k k . OPEN 1315 Erie Blvd. KWIK• 00 11:00a.m.-11:00p.m. (At aoulevard Bowl) · 7 days This certificate not valid toward purchase of specials

FEBRUARY 24, 1970 ~aszczak, Ri·ch: 'Exce'l 9 ~1 Relays, Easterns Engineers Smash Hoopsters noirMik~~ Rich broke four records and Rick Jaszczak shattered Utlll~thefiias Union's track team made stnmg showings in both the s%1chs~ter Relays and the Eastern Track Championships. The bWA!fflMnPlaced fourth in the Saturday competition, which was u\!~ld \~Jthe Rochester Fieldhouse, with a total of 17 points. \to :R~m~htng ahead of the Dutchmen were Cortland State, n\{.oc_~Y1r, and Buffalo State. No team score was kept in the •. JJlp~gvjf~ c meet. .. :J\51io') ~ Rich Shatters Marks 1 ~,.-~,~·~h ~jum}Der Rich was the top performer for Union at L 1 pc 1~~?f- His 6' 4\6.'' jump broke the schcwl, meet, and 'J 1r,~ <;wse records. Sophomore Jaszczak also did well, anchoring ., ~ w~~;lap ~elay team_ to a 1:41 secund place finish, and the ·e gfitc'l.<ap ~elay quartet m a 3:42.5 third place clocking. In both races h~ made up considerable distances on his opponents. :,Ill ln1~tlElition to Jaszczak, the four-lap relay team was composed Jof::Bh.icd Gobb, Pete Ericson, and Steve Wood, while the eight-lap f.mrltadJ:wtaS.!rlnade up of Ericson, Greg Hamlin, and Wood. l21f!F!i~ljljl@Jl Ed Rawley was another standout. Rawley finished iJ:lYh.ffi}\~e¥Jlmate Rich in the high jump, clearing 6' 2\. ·Jr!t SY(tffflt¥r>:Jsaw the Garnet travel ~o D:=trtmou th College to 1 W~lJ.!I7et~ 1 tn 0 \he Eastern Track Championships. Jaszczak and Rich nr~dtuted t.w 1 o of the finest performances in Union indoor track Hi orY?upr ~ - ~g<J[ ~~c£.1J<Z, 1 £All-American as a freshman last year, literally ran I aWay 1f~tlfu t'fie field, finishing with a 1! : !3.3 clocking. His time rwa~1~(tamet record in that event. \lo rili.ah exlaJ>SUl\ed a second place in the high jump. The ·l.S§:coWiwemjnmper cleared an amazing 6' 6\'\ as he shattered his JPWft~:)ndm-§Ufor the second time in tw<J days. b:mwo noinU ,t Coleman Pleased b w£~~~c~§..~lq Coleman was extremely pleased with the team's sRowuf£:~~B£J11\r weekend. He feels, however, that if the season is it<? be ·a:·olg ?Udcess, the cindermen will have to defeat the R.P.I. ttfgh¥~e\-~, wH8 1 formerly have dorninaied any meetings between flhe 1 l:Wb tt11rrfl:G ~ ol w~1~ l(lfliw2 fl Face Engineers 1 ~~rxFhe 'R!~.lf~Jrtrrt!~t will be held this Saturday in the Fieldhouse. frlilNffit%tJe6fJIJeflunderway at 1:00 P'.M. 1!'lrilo '(rt£ nsrlt z~n9t . '{1lfli.J c olni 1n9W eg9llo:, livi') 9rl1 J9l1E 9f!i!:.>5 Svvim Snaps Skein By BRUCE GARBER 1 an 1mpr victory ~!tf6 1 1Jtg2f· Saturda , lfmnJfaqlY!t wsnm~ ~impe .th¥i E{mJOlijeet;.~ ~W&§~e 'l:lllil2ltaOO] !liiMir y~nhsW a nivE!Jll41@lklsgnuoJ .H.H ni e:>ittO 29R~::ifim~sbu:t2 ~9rAAgs~ tm\HJ2of the Dutchmen captured seven firsts. The medley relay combo of Gary Needell, Alex Bodenstab, Bob Szatrowski, ~ a quick seven points~ Burt Yankiver, who broke the UniftjQ;OO..)Ii~eestyle record ;;agaiust R;:e:t. last could do not better than a '- second place, Face Bantams ~~J Next Saturday the Gamet A are expected to push over the 'l~f[pQ mark when they face : aVifW~ at Foote Pool. =to aeesm week, ~WOit!WinAfO.t~VIIIIIO OT A3Wt~FltAur!:fl'IAO\I and set 3~'!!1JNR!>~c~d c!Jrf )! A.VffiAfJW!MH:l>TJlRont:!Cft), the pr~~A<fVWffi'tl!lV'ftb<flO 3 0 flO, 2'~arSJHT JJA swam to a pool mark in the <Jnd Nutmeat~ from all over BV BILL HOLLE.RAN The Garnet hoopsters tried f.o·F an upset over injury-~idden R.P.I. Friday night, hoping to capitalize on the absence of the Engineers' two big men, Randy Brown and ·Tom Neufer. The Engineers had other ideas, hewever, hitting 22 of 23 foul Shots, dominating the offensive boards, and working star sophomore Jim Tedisco into foul trouble en route to an easy 94-66 win. The story of the night was the fine defensive play >C>f R.P.I. guard Mike Kramer, who held Tedisco to only 15 points, well below his season's average of 28.6. Kramer added 17 tallies and did a good job quarterbacking the Engineer attack. R.P.I.'s Pete Vanderzee led all scorers with 29 points, while Scott Kirkpatrick added 14 and Gary Dubansky threw in 13 for the Engineers. Dave Shames led the way for Union with 16 tallies, while Rein Eichinger popped for 11. The Engineers hit for the first three points of the game, bu 1 ihe Garnet rallied to tie the score moments later. The lead see-sawed back and forth until the 12-minute mavk, when R.P.I. ran off , 10 striaght points to move inte a 25-13lead. Tedisco was cold in the :first half, hitting for only 6 poin1s, but the Garnet kept within seven points of the Engineers until Tedisco picked up his fourth personal foul with 6:30 remaining in the half. BASEBALL Coach Art Lawrence requests that all baseball candidates report next f\llonday afternoon, March 2, to the Field House at 1 P.M. HOME TYPING AND SECRETARIAL SERVICE 377-6053 Rtates: 30c per page for typing - $2.00 per hour for dictation Free: 1 cc, minor 500 free,-231T JAIJ3q2 OOO=t 3 2 l3 1113:>lEi)Ho;Lr2rt\a31 A 1 !Ill !3 ,23Vtl AAM8U2 ,1M FIT2Aq 4ol3Star!J~AOJ , oiabtMiiiiMjJ8 t8 2TA 3a7:ttr.i:9-ttN-6~!-I=hJ.t-W-C..wiJlt.(l l.corrections ~~~~~;;;~~~ltlll~O.WU~~J.Clj~~~~~~WON TRIPS - FILLING - SMALL DEPOSIT FOR FH EEtt1 Eif-8Jt&S. ~~it~st~~~~; al i:»eqa 'to easrknuq b~Q~(ijpj~ :H:HHel:s'6~irlT ~2 freestyle, Mike Horwath Coach Chris Schmid benched the sophomore immediately, and R.P.I. took advantage of Tedisco's absence to pour in seven straight tallies and race into a 40-27lbulge. The Garnet regrouped, however, and closed the gap with their own seven-point skein. Barry Fitzgerald hit for five of those points, and good defensive work by Shames and Eichinger helped to hold the Engineers back. The score stood 40·34 at the half. Schmid sent Tedisco back into the game at the outset of the second stanza, but RPI reeled off nine straight points to move into an insurmountable 1 5-point lead. ifhe Dutchmen tried to apply defensive pressme, but with Tedisco in foul trouble and. the Engineers moving the ball around well, feeding Vanderzee all alone in the corner time and again to break up the Garnet's desperate zone press, RPI stayed on top by a comfortable margin. The win upped RPI's slate to 14-5, while the Garnet fell to 5-15. The surging Garnet frosh upped their record to 6-7 in the preliminary, fighting off an Engineer stall and scoring , a 51-42 triumph over the RPI yearling squad. Mike Doyle and Bob Mitchell led the Dutchmen, hitting for 12 and 11 points respectively. The varsity cagers will close out their 1969-70 slate this week, meeting the Continentals of Hamilton tomorrow night in the Field House, and winding up their schedule against Williams Saturday night in another home contest. Tap-off time for both games is 8:00 p.m. ·Love has.a new r1ng to it. .sn REGENCY k!Carvea the LOve Ring TM people. It's a love ring. Because you are in love you'll want a ring that says love in every way. From the exciting cut of its diamond to the graceful elegance of its setting. Such a ring is a Love Ring from ArtCarved. Do come see uur ArtCarved collection soon. Prices subject to change based on current value of gold. Use your Master Charge Card Graubart & Sons (Schenectady's famous diamond shop, for three generations) 166 Jay St. Three Union Graduates in Family VOLUME, 99 NO. 42 Tomorrow night in Memorial Chapel, scene entertainment triumphs, David Frye and hiselas Mason Proffit (showtl above) and their ech brighten the dreary exercises of term's end. brightening are on sale now from Dorm and sentatives, $3.25 in advance and $3.50 at the do< Entertainment fans. are to be reminded tha1 spring will be unseasotlally bleak unless Saturda financially to the ever~present tax CO!llmittee. The show begins at 8:30 and early arrival Michaelson run frantically back and forth . Friedman OJj By LOUIS S. SNITKOFF Dr. Maurice Friedman, speaking Wednesday night in Memorial Chapel, discussed the \Problematic Rebel\ in relation to modern man, literature and society. He characterized modern man as a \fmite and limited self' who lacks the \sense of what it is to be human\ which was common among mankind in Biblical times as well as in Ancient Greece and during the Renaissance. Friedman, Professor of Religion at Temple University, drew his examples of modern man from four authors: Melville, Dostoevsky, Kafka, and Camus. P\l • 1gnm He cited Captain Ahab, in Melville's Moby Dick, as an example of the modern man in search of truth, who discovers that tmth and reality are incompatible. He continued by comparing Ishmael, from the same work, to the modern exile, who is alienated and by being aware of his alienation, intensifies it. Professor Friedman suggested that modern man is , faced with two alternatives: t!} maintain his childhood innocence, or to lose it and be destroyed by the world. Ahab~ .. 11.e said, is a \modern Promethean\ who dumps all evils upon Moby Dick. Dr. Friedman then shifted to Dostoevsky, whose \underground man is the aliel).ated man of th.e modern consciousne~ the consciol role, and is 1 free man Speaking Punishment, Raskolniko\1 tries to b1 undergroun< pawnbrol< miserabl· Or, ' Ft Larry Coordinat< Moratori spoke oft demonstra sponso InternatioJ Wednesda~

PAGE <i. FEBRUARY 24, 1970 - J,a:szczak, Ri,c~h Excel . At Re~l·ays, ,Eastern~s Engineers Smash Hoopsters corner time and again to li' break up the Garnet's desperate zone press, RPl stayed on top by a comfortable margin. The win upped RPI's slate to 14-5, while the Garnet fell to 5-15. Mike Rich broke four records ~ml Rick Jast.czuk sh~ttereu another as Union's track te~m maLic strong showings in both the R.ochester Relays and the E~stern Track Championships. The Garnet placeu fourth in the Saturday competition, whkh was held in the Rochester Fieldhouse. with a tot~! of 17 points. Finishing :.~he~d of the Dutchmen were Ctlltl~ml State. Rodt~ster. :.~nu Butfaln State. Nn team score was kept in the Hanover meet. Rich Shatters Marks ll\gl1 jumpet RiL·h was the tup performer fnr Union at RL><:he>te.r. !lis (1' 4 1 ~-- jump broke the school. meet. anu fiduhouse records. Sophomore Jas1czak alsu diu well. anchoring the f1)L1r-lap rd1y team to a I :41 second place finish. and the eight-Tap relay quartet in a 3:42.5 third place ducking. In both races he 111ade up cunsiderable dist<.J.tJces on his opponents. . In uldition to Jast.c1ak. the four-i<.lp relay team was composed oi :Bruce Cobb. Pete Ericsun. ami Steve Wood. while the eight-lap sqLtad was made up of Ericson. Greg Hamlin. and Wouu. Fre&!nnan Ed Rawley was another standout. Rawley finished behind teammate Rid1 in the high jump. dearing b' 2\'. SuucJay saw the Cat net travel tv Dartmouth College to CO!Jlpete in the l:a~tem Track Championships. Jaszczak and Rich prod ueed twn nf the finest performances in Union indnor track history. JJ:sLcz3k. All-American as a freshman i:lst year. literally r'm away from the fielu. finishing with a l: !3.3 docking. His time wasan·ew (;amet record in that event. Rich l)aptured a seconu place in the high jump. The s_ec:oncL:...year jumper cleared an amazing b' 6~2\ as he shattered his mvn ,standanl 1fur the second time in two days. Coleman Pleased C<,J:tdl Ronald Coleman was extremely pleased with the team's showit1g over the Wt'ekend. He feels. huwever, that if the season is to be 3 big success. the c:ndermen will have to defeat the R.PJ. Engineers. who formerly have dominated any meetings between the two teams. Face Engineers The R.PJ. meet will be held this Saturday in the Fieldhouse. The first events get underway at l:OO P.M. 'ftJim Sna_ps· Skein By BRUCE GARBER - · wrfh~ari~Tn'lpress'f\'CS\5'A9 victory D'{,(ff-,' R.LT. Saturdax. ,th,e,, G arne.t me:I;Ii}~p snappel;l th~ir, Jp,ut::meet,, losing streak .,to -bri-ng t11elr c.·recordAo ap 18Vetl' <f.vljr..;:J. ::11·;, .J ' ; · 1 'II ·· .t~ \-· <•B~s-t:'flme~. ;).,,;..~ , lll'rrtitfg' 'iii il;t\me;~ of thei~ • -o beiit times.,~!: the,.swson, the Dutchmen captured seven firsts. The medley relay combo of Gary Needell. Alex Bodenstab, Bob Szatrowski, ·:;and: J,~n .J;ie.r~.atl1 ~!'l~!l.ed..,f.Ji~Ic, ; a quick seven points. ·.. Burt Yankiver, who broke ~>· the V nfp,gj (};;()Q.y~t~~eestyle ~}record -:-against=R~f'7J;. last could do not better than a second place. Face Bantams Next Saturday the Garnet ~,~d f , are expected to push over the :,j~P,. mark when they face : ,'(ri.JWK at Foote PooL By BILL HOLLERAN The Garnet hoopsters tried for an upset over injury-ridden R.P.L Friday night, hoping to capitalize on the absence of the t.ngineers' two big men, l<.andy Brown alld Tom Neufer. The Engineers had other ideas. however, hitting 22 of 23 foul shots. dominating the offensive boards, and working star sophomore Jim Tedisco into foul trouble en route to atl easy 94-66 win. The story of the night was the fine defensive play of R.P.l. guard Mike Kramer. who held Tedisco to only I 5 points. well below his season's average of 28.6. Kramer added 17 tallies and did a good job quarterbacking tlte Engineer attack. R.P.l.'s Pete Vanderzee led all s~orers with 29 points. while Scott Kirkpatrick added 14 and Gary Dubansky tllrew in 13 for the Engineers. Dave Shames led the way for Union with 16 tallies. while Rein Eichinger popped for 11. The Engineers hit for the first three points of the game. but the Garnet rallied to tie the score moments later. The lead see-sawed back and forth until the 12-minute mark, when R.P.L ran off I 0 striaght points to move into a 25-1 3 lead. Tedisco was cold in the first half. hitting for only 6 p<iints. but the Garnet kept within seven points of the Engineers until Tedisco picked up his fourth personal foul with 6:3 0 remaining in the half. BASEBALL Coach Art Lawrence requests that all baseball candidates report next r.Jionday afternoon, March 2, to the Field House at 1 P.M. HOME TYPING AND SECRETARIAL SERVICE 377-6053 Rates: 30c per page for typing - $2.00 per hour for dictation Free: cc, minor ':week, womitq~gah~S:.at~i'\4-:ay;,t!li! UT K :•:.•;f<~i<f..\uri0liftC'•J ·~and set Jl)!Ul\f~p ~Jf\' )f ,b.ii'P-tANUUM-f.PT':Ro~SJED. ;'the pr~~~~~f:.J':~9NVe:!lVfl~D,'H):;. :·) ~HFI 2'Pt:~N8TSJ!H .J.lf-1 ;.swam to a pool mark in the and Nutn:eoh from all ovtrr ~:· 5 00 free.:: :~ i 'i ) ·'\ \) ~; q? I': j u::;, I j r: .,)) v·] )j f$ li-:Or r,d ;; i 1=-H ~'j! ,:; <: : :: , i 1' '1 e i,_i • · . i \•1 r: ! (..:; . ., ·~ 4 o61S::T~rfls.lf~1 H OJ , :~~.,corrections '• o(tii6t~winner. i i 0 :, T r; ·: h:-+i<+-~H::!-~;.....;,?.-+~.w.:...~i+l~ :' .lA-;+) \'~i _________ ____, U n i9 o· .. ~~r•~U:J.l,)C _ .Q.the.r ,=~·---~ =- -----··~~,·-~= ) i n d iv id~aL ', adu b'le-::'; \'».ihm er:: V\ f'... .r.v\\\_,.,..,.j --.,~--=--i:r-'<-a-:.n-,.,.---::+~rt='1,.,..,\--tr~.-... ______ ____, . Steve: J1ill\ '<:a-]Dture,l!J~ ffte\ ',~;J il 'i\1.~ \ic,\ \;) n·;;\·-,u \..m.c~ 'L.- .m.~ \ :·200-ya~d,~vJ@'fi} i\l~fNe·'·tr' \.\N\1.1. c:. i'' '· 'f\'.>< '~.)_''\fir>,. ·.,r.,r' \and the~z;®\)';rclcbtitterflyi\i~::~:' J11E,W,~~.!k.:lli.:,.t,6NOtl.N.-.\''\SLJJ~LME-~.VACA':tnoN TRIPS- &'identical times of 2:17. ni <',kn>! ;1i :)RQJI!JN~!)rli!llctfl:-J MB\l!.( . Qyv Fl LLING · SMALL DEPOSIT ~ Otlre:t'-f.irsts were taken by ,. - · OR FREEr!Eli:Q-$.£ttS. ~ ~NeedelniJ\11 t}te !20El.tm&OO-dkie ~) lll LO~~c:Y~~~~~~ j ~and J:n4drwath in the 200 lwo8''rnsvefitotl t!X) .. f~;breaststroke. Despite a great ' 1 t:J!lQZ lu 9~1.r!~1uq !:nli:IQXI'~~~ H:Ji11el:s'6Wi~irlT ~ .~ ''2~·gtr:'2·~e'ff~rt''i'h\\ttrer-<.20'&yd'rd\\'' · rtnrf1~302~~ ·~ freest y I e, Mike Horwath Coach Chris Schmid benched the sophomore immediately, and R.P .l. took advantage of Tedisco's absence to pour in seven straight ta!Hes and race into a 40-27 bulge. The Garnet regrouped, however, and dosed the gap with their own seven-point skein. Barry Fitzgerald hit for five of those points, and good defensive work by Shames and Eichinger helped to hold the Engineers back. The score stood 40-34 at the half. Schmid sent Tedisco back into the game at the out set of the second stanza, but RPI reeled off nine straight points to move into an insurmountable IS-point lead. The Dutchmen tried to apply defensive pressure, bn t with Tedisco in foul trouble and the Engineers rnoving the ball around well, feeding Vanderzee all alone in the The surging Garnet frosh upped their record to 6-7 in the preliminary, fighting off an Engineer stall and scoring a 51-42 triumph over the RPI yearling squad. Mike Doyle and Bob Mitchell led the Dutchmen, hitting for 12 and I 1 points respectively. The varsity cagers will dose out their 1969-70 slate this week, meeting the Continentals of Hamilton tomorrow night in the Field House. and winding up their schedule against Williams Saturday night in another home contest. Tap-off time for both games is 8:00 p.m. ·Love has.a new r1.ng to it. REGENCY A!_!Carvea the LOve Ring ™ people. It's a love ring-. Because you are in love you'll want a ring that says love in every way. From the exciting cut of its diamond to the graceful elegance of its setting. Such a ring is a Love Ring from ArtCarved. Do come see our ArtCarved collection soon. Pnces subJect to change based on current t'alue of gold. l st' your \la:-;l<'r Charge Card Crau bart & ~on:-; (~l'iwm·<·tarl: ':-; famou~ diamond :-;hop. for three gt'llt'raliotL\i) I(>(J ]a; ~t. Th r<'t' lnion Gradual(':-; in FamilY I , I VOLUM'E, 99 NO. 42 Tomorrow night in Memorial Chapel, scene entertainment tnumphs, David Frye and his elas1 Mason Proffit (shown above) and their ecle brighten the dreary exercises of term's end. brightening are on sale now from Dorm and I sentatives, $3.25 in advance and $3.50 at the doo Entertainment fans are to be reminded that spring will be unseasonally bleak unless Saturda• financially to the ever-present tax committee. The show begins at 8:30 and early arrival! fJiichaelson run frantically back and forth. Friedman on By LOUIS S. SNITKOFF Dr. Maurice Friedman, speaking Wednesday night in l\lemorial ChapeL discussed the \Problematic Rebel\ in relation to modern man. literature and society. lie characterized modern man as a \finite and limited self' who lacks the \sense of what it is to be human\ which was common among mankind in Biblical times as well as in Ancient Greece and during the Renaissance. Friedman, Profes.sor of Religion at Temple University, drew his examples of modern man from four authors: Melville, Dostoevsky, Kafka. and Camus. Pilgrim He cited Captain Ahab, in Melville's Moby Dick, as an example of the modern man in search of truth, who discovers that truth and reality are incompatible. He continued by comparing Ishmael. from the same work, to the modern exile, who is alienated and by being aware of his alienation, intensifies it. Professor Friedman suggested that modern man is faced with two alternatives: to maintain his childhood innocence, or to lose it and be destroyed by the world. Ahab,. he said, is a \modern Promethean\ who dumps all evils upon Moby Dick. Dr. Friedman then shifted to Dostoevsky, whose \underground man is the alienated man of the modern consciousnes the consciou role, and is t free man Speaking Punishment, Raskolnikov tries to br, underground pawnbrok miserabl1 Orl FtJ Larry Coordinato Mo ratori spoke of tl demonstrat sponso lnternatior Wednesday

PAGE 2 FEBRUARY 27.1970 Junior· GJmp Ed Courses Receive Mixed Reactions N.Y. Telephone Hikes Its Rates By DAVID J. UGUCCtONI In the wake of recent proposals to make the Junior Comp. Ed. projects optional, a number of studnets. Concordien&is expressed their views to Concordy Project Courses they took last year. The course projects ranged from a study of land and water pollution to the building of a wind-powered generator for a missionary in Tanzania. No student was found doing work in his major field of study. Response to the courses varied. Some students,/ were enthusiastic .and had put in work over a period of time in order to create a satisfying project. Others found their subjects uninteresting and ended up handing in \quicky\ papers written two weeks before the end of the second term. Jonathon Wright's project was the building of a wind-powered generator. Although, \it was an incredible stru.ggle,\ he enjoyed the course, he said, and did in fact, make a working prototype of the generator. Wright said he did not feel that he would be able to take an English course or other Center I course successfully. He said that the Comp. Ed. course gave hime some idea of the problems of underveloped nations and was especially good because, \we Published Tuesday and Friday during the School year by the Student Body of • Union College. Schenectady, N.Y. National Advertising Rep resent at ive: National E. !hH;'JtiQnal Advertising Service, Inc., College Publ-ishers ReJ;~retentative. 360 LeMington Avenue, N.V.C. worked with current problems, not something that's been on the books for a long time.\ One student, who did his project on \Justice in Schenectady,\ was less successful. After the initial class meetings the students were told to go on their own. Although the professors offered help, the course was so unstructured it was difficult to make use of this help. The student inteiViewed felt that the course did not teach him the research methodology necessary in order for him to do his project. Mike Yochmowitz took \Information Systems in the Schenectady Y.M.C.A.\ He did not feel that the course offered very much. The classes generally did not accomplish anything and Yochmowitz' product consisted of writing one Cabal program. John Steedman said he enjoyed Professor Finkelstein's course concerning development of the Tri-Cities area. The classes were small and much of the work was independant study. Steedman's problem was \what can you do with down town areas?\ He envisioned the downtown areas of Schenectady and Troy being rebuilt or their basic character being altered. One specific idea was the Editonal Office. Old Gym. Union College f'ublication Office, Whitehurst Prontmg & Binding Co., Inc .. 416 418 Fifth Ave, Troy, 235·4450 .. E nter2d in the Schenectad'l Post Office as Second Class Mail Matter. Subscriptoon 20 cents a copy. $6 a year delivered anywhere on the United States Henry G. Fein WiRiam Ouzer Editors-in-Chief Peter J-. Weingold ............... Managing Editor Jeff lmrt . , . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Business Manager Witliam J. Holleran ................ Sports Editor Jody Saslow •.....•......... Photography Editor M. Pall~ Andrews ............ Contributing Editor Richard Patterson ............ Contributing Editor Neil S. Kramer ................. Editor Emeritus Staff: Robert A. Levine, Danny Shocket, David Uguccioni, Louis Snitkoff, Tony Faga, Doug Wong, M. Grossman, Mike Gottlieb, John Harrigan, Peter Bickerman, Kevin Roberts, Michelle Vottis, Lloyd Birns, Michael Swirsky, Neil Green, Douglas Tosh, George Kaplan, Charles Long, Mark Shugoll, Greg Hamlin, Mike Humber, Dennis Alsofrom, Stu Moss, Bruce Garber, Hank Levine, Dave Conrey, Doug Binder. tearing dovtn of River street in Troy and building high income housing in its place. Peter Garrison took Professor DesForges course an land and water pollution. He and two other students studied tlle physical, social, and economic effects of atomic power plants. While Garrison does not believe that he c o.u ld successfully complete a ••normal\ science course, he did get a lot out of this course. Besides writing a report the course included lectures, filrns and discussion, which Garrison labeled as \thirty per cent effective.\ He felt that the course was not as rigorous as many of the courses he had taken at Union. The Military-Industrial call dialed by the operator Complex has done it again. In carries .the same price no a move that caught hundreds matter what hour. Also, only 1 of Union men by surprise, the calls within New York are Bell Telephone System effected at present. Thus instituted massive rate interstate calls are now increases for long distance substantially cheaper than phone calls at 12:01 a.m. those within the state. Thursday mo~nings For example, non-operator Calls not requiring an station-to-station nighttime operator, which are calls to New York City now station•to·station calls dialed costs 43 cents for the first directly, went up an average three minutes (up three of 10%. cents). But calls dialed by the But the big change, and opera tor now cost a the one that effects Union whopping $1.14 for the lust men the most, involves calls three minutes at all times. that require the assistance of The rate to Buffalo is now 49 an operator. These include all cents if you dial yourself (up calls made from a pay phone, four cents) and $1.44 if the c o 11 e c t c a 11 s , a n d operator does the job. Calls person-to-person calls. Under to Skidmore will now cost 27 the new rate schedule, time cents if you dial and 45 cents of day or week is irrelevant if if the operator completes the the operator is involved. call. All the above rates are Thus, although non-operator plus tax.. calls are substantially cheaper Meanwhile, calls to Boston at night or on weekends, any coast 55 cents plus tax, Five Talb in March Will Center On World Affairs By LOUIS S. SNITKOFF American Foreign Policy in Alternatives.\ The college Union College, along with 17 other institutions and organizations, is sponsoring a series of \Table Talks On World Affairs\ during the month of March. The five talks will be held on Tuesday afternoons from 12 noon to 1:15 p.m. The discussions, to be held in the Community Room of the new Schenectady County Public Library are open to the public without charge or reservations. Father William A. Hio, Rector of the Christ Episcopal Church will lead the first talk on March 2, speaking on .. Okinawa and Iuber Scholar On Literature Continued from page 1 Dr. Friedman wem: on to discuss Kafka, whom he called \the most existential writer.\ Although there is little rebellion in Kafka's works. Friedman asserted that he is a great prophet of the exile. A common theme in Kafka is that of a hero facing something·some force other than himself. He also spoke of the \'real existential guilt in The Trial; the guilt of Joseph K.. in not being there as a person.\ Finally, in speaking of Camus~ he concentrated on The Stra-nger in which Meursault (the stranger) lives ••in a world.. of no expectation.\ His world is not hostile, but indifferent, and he is left to die alone; •here is no hero. Dr. Friedman concluded by discussing the whole way of modern man. \If man is realistic and taken up into meaningful dialogue ... the modern man can emerge. the Far East.\ The following representative on the we.ek, the Rev. James C. planning committee for the , I, Mtller, Pastor of the series is Dr. Robert Sharlet, Emmanuel Baptist Church Professor of Political Science. will. SJ?eak on \International Mounties Christtan Youth Exchange: _ . Toward International T1ckets are still Education.\ available for tomorrow Three members of the night's Mountebanks Union faculty will round out perf~rman.~e of Nicolo · the program beginning with Mach1avelh s only play, l Dr. Carl J. George, Professor the sat,!rical \'The 1 of Biology who will speak on Mandrake, the \Pr~posed Sea-Level The producti?~ is one Inter o ce ani c canal in of the most amb1t1ous ever Panama\ on March 16. He P r e s e-n ted by t he will be followed by Mr. Mountebanks. and boasts i Stephen M. Berk of the professional costu~e$ and ~· e. H i s t 0 r y d e p a.r t men t , the most expensive sets 1 discussing •• American ever constructed by the 1 Attitudes on Communism \ theare group. The fmal speaker on Mar~h \The Mandrake\ 30 will be Dr. 'charles F. received u_nanimously Holmes, Professor of History, favora~le revaews when 1t who will speak on \Tanzania was farst presented last j (East Africa): A Choice of :=::w::e::ek::e::n::d::. =====::::::1 Pennel Esso Service Nolt Street Corner Of Van Vranken DIAMANTE'S Enjoy Our Fine Home Cooked Italian Food in o~ ( C~mfortoble Dining Room 1 Opt~. Tht Brownell Gate on Nott Street Open Doily l 0 to l ~.M Sundays 5 P.M. to 1 AJ j ,.-------------------------- ... Peter Pause 535 Noll Street ~-----1 FEBRUAI ] By WI The tr activities candids a: long ch yearbook: The deat came her Black .Sc latest, 19, a produc and li:k predecess of eXCI backdrop purpose a Where news by objective, evoke emotions its art selection art is s1 U n i or photog instances perceptiv T hE ac:compa or staten mo$t of excellen1 especial!• Gregory photos mere 1 stateme11 summati right. Perh work as mention beautifu Raser ar of Pr represen photogr: book. philOSOJ not hea the can sharply problen: plague integrat concerr oriente some materi success1 The effect individ1 book e looking out Cl pre sen opiniotJ The sec point i certain suffer. Perl1 obvio a moun· aesthet behind to lesst clearly could I more 1 9 6 Photo~ haven the lir sets o wrestlE appar campu pet1int edi~91.1

era tor no • only are Thus now than era tor first three by the a f\lrst times. 1 ow 49 (up if the Calls ost 27 cents the are college the the still row play, s one the boasts and sets the ake\ ously it last I I • in o~ t Room 1 Gate l A.M 1 .uj _ .• f e. -.)' FEBRUARY 27, 1970 The 1969 Union Book: Not Enough of Campus By WILLIAM OUZER The traditional format of activities, sports, faculty, candids and seniors which so long characterized college yearbooks is certainly dead. The death of the old style came here officially the the Black Hook of 1968. The latest, 1969, edition comes to a product of the new style and like its immediate predecessor has its moments of excellence against a backdrop of uncertainty of purpose and direction. Where a newspaper reports news by being immediate and objective, a yearbook should evoke memories and emotions by the strength of its art and the careful selection of its content. The art is strong in this year's Union Book, the photography in many instances acute and very perceptive. The portraits accompanying the interviews or statements which make up most of the book are quite excellent. Their strength lies especially in the case of the Gregory .and Coach Schmid photos that are more than mere records. They are statements, comments and summations in their own right. Perhaps, though, such work as the three photos just mentioned as well as the very beautiful picture of Professor Raser and the very apt photo of Professor .Shinagel represent too little of the photographic content of the book. Artistic and philosophical concern here is not heavily directed toward the campus. This concern is sharply focused on some problems which undeniably plague us all - but the integration of these wider concerns with a campus oriented book containing some campus oriented material is not always successful. The attempt to create this effect by having those 26 individuals who compose the book eithr be those outside looking ii1 or inside looking out certainly manages to present a chronicle of opinion, but lacks cohesion. The scope of the book on this point is too broad, and so certain sections of the book suffer. Perhaps by turning the obviously formidable amounts of intellectual and aesthetic energy which was behind the book more closely to lesser themes or ones more clearly defined, the book could have been a tighter and more effective portrait of 1969 at Union. Photographically. this would have meant more work along the lines of portraiture and sets of photos, such as on wrestler Peter Kenyon. The apparent mundanness of campus pursuits, or their pet1iness in the eyes of edi~91.s qf commentators does not preclude the responsillilty to treat them with the same respect and striving for excelle'nce which dominates the treatment of issues closer to the editor's hearts. A photograph which captures something we see everyday, and captures it in a way that makes us look at it again is perhaps the sort of photograph which is most relevant to a yearbook. It is clearly the kind most difficult to produce. The challenge to a photographer to see and perceive in that context is severe, and is a challenge which the 1969 Union Book only .partly met. of the vast body of printed material in this year's book, there is obviously, much too much to digest here. One thing becomes clear though. That is, once inviting opinion, you should respect the integrity of that viewpoint. There is editorial irresponsibility when following an article on Fraternities you place two, full- page, less than flattering photos of fraternities and then later in the book .reflect your approval by complementing a plea for conservation with several pages of beautiful nature photos. Without objecting to or refuting any of the articles, one gets the general impression that there are just too many of them. We return here to the problem of what the Union yearbook should be. The problem with the collection of writings is that they lead the yearbook into digressions, scatte.r the impact that a more defmed thematic concentration would have. Again the tenuous campus orientation of some of the work and \one-more-time\ flavor of some of the others, sap the collection as a whole and as part of the yearbook. Most intriguing of the contents of the entire book, though, may be the comments over the photos of each senior at the end of the volume. Here is a capsule summary of what the graduates thought of their education and their four years here. Many are superfluous, some insulting and occassionally one reveals a flash of insight. One is left with the disturbing sense that the members of the class of 1969, as portrayed by this admittedly minute sampling, emerged from Union not all changed but, rather, entrenched in their habits and I a rgely a pathetic. The question thus ra.ised about what we do here is obvious and disturbing. Indeed, as Professor Curtis said of last year's book, Union is part of the world, and such our yearbook should not operate with blinders. But, if last year's Union Book tried to effectively portray Union in the world, they failed. They also failed .to present Union, as Union, a college and a epmmunity. They did a fair job of compilirlg words and pictures that spol<e to major issu.es whi~h interest many of us, but not necessarily as content for a yearbook. • VIe spoke of the search for a new identity for the Union Book and its counterparts at oth.er schools. We believe that the 1969 edition clearly shows that tlle Union Book's first responsibility is to Union, to show us what our college is like and what our life at it is :like. This need not force a retum to the sterile vapid departmentalized sna.p-shot C()llections of yesteryear, IJUt if definitely does ~hallenge the artiistic and literary minds behind the y e a r'i> o ok n ow u n de prepara.tion to innovate and create on the more cornrn()nplace than they have in tlte past. This challenge is severe, but <Jne that must be met bef()re the Union Book fiads its niche. PORTRAITS Ef1ective prices until Marcil f3 • ~-ti,.x:7\ $1.50 1·8\:x10\ $2.00 4-wallet $1.00 5-passport $2.00 Sitting-fee of $1.00 applied to order price .374·0961 G~ Cabley B. Katzman Professional lyping Service IBM Selectric. Greek and Ma1h syml>ols. Choice of type style. El<perienced in typing D()c:toral theses. Reasonable rates. Dependable. Call489,697\8 any time. Phon 372..0528 PARK PIZZERIA FREE DELIVERY ftaJia11 Grinders 0111 Specialty llehintl Davidson Hall· One Block from the Campus 25 l'ark Place Sche11ectady, N.Y, PAGE3 Ma1men Topped Contfnued [rom Page 4 DeJong, who decisioned freshman Gary Gurney at 150, W-1; and Tom Akey, who beat Bill Simson 9·2 at 177. He:avyweight Jim Locke addecl to the Colgate Point total with a 3-0 win over Garn~t big man Pete Kenyon. Oddly enough, the Garnet's fine 7-3 final mark was the worst Union wrestling record since 1964-65, when the Dutchmen stumbled to a 2-7 slate. Since '64-'liS, the Garnet have amasse(i a 39-7 record. In spite of his team's creditable ,performance in his first year as Gamet wrestling skipp-er, Everling labeled the season \a disappointment.\ \We felt we could have done better,\ he commented, \but when you only have 16 boys on the team and you lose two or three starters, you can't do the job.\ Everling was •eferring to the rash of injuries which struck the squad at mid-season and sidelined Ru'w and Sheldon. The Gamet mentor also lamented the fact that the grapplers could win only one of their four big matches, falling to St. Lawrence, Springfield, and Colgate while beating Kings Point. \We were strong up through Springfield and mid-season\ he said, \but then the injuries began to pile up.\ Everling confessed that next year would be a rebuilding year. It can be nothing else but that, considering the fact that the Garnet will lose senior stalwarts K.netzer, Ruhl, M u nno, Simon, and Kenyon--an impressive quintet who amassed an overall mark of 84-16-2 and led the Dutchmen to a 25-5 record in their three years of varsity duty. Everling will have no returning juniors to count on next winter, and will have to go with an all-sophomore and freshman team. Reed and Sheldon, however, will be a big help to the Dutchmen next season. fGur Credit Summer Abroa~d June 15 • August 24, 1970 VIENNA [ntensive study modern Southeast Europe to eo-operation with the Austro-American Institute of Education. Modern central Vienna pension; Instutute classes give in English; 23-day field trip of six countries studied. The $1385 fee includes transportation from N.Y. and return; tour to Vienna; room & board; field trip; cultural activities an.d excursions. Personal expenses and independent travel time prior to return to U.S. not covered. LONDON In co-operation with City of London College; lecture/tutorial course in Fine Arts, History, Literature, Political Science or Sociology. $845 fee :includes transportation; tuition; student residence .and meals during the stay in London; orientation program; homestay with British family; excursions; cultural events. Personal expenses and four week in:dependent travel period not covered. Fee without trans-Atlantic transportation, $545. Beaver College, Glenside 1 Pa. Write for brochure & application. Vienna closes Aprill; London Apri115.

PAGE4 FEBRUARY 27, 1'970 Gallucci, Tedisco Star In Hoop Overtime Upset . . By MARK SHUGOLL G~llucci's Fines~ Game th~ Union lead. With two .jn three games, including a playmg th~u final game m a R1 t Gallucc1 played mmutes to play the Garnet's 49•point effort against Utica. ~mon umform on Saturday The u n i 0 n college perhaps his finest game of the once massive lead had been Tedisco has gained the honor mght. basketball team lost all of a season, turning in personal reduced to 85-79. four times this year. The Garnet frosh trounced high:s ·Of 24 points and 24 Hamilton's M ark Tomorrow night the Albany College of Pharmacy eighteen--point halftime lead, rebounds. His rebound mark Brotzman then scored three Dutchmen conclude their on Wednesday 100-45. All t~tml'lbt~~nc 1 e 1 d 0 _ 1 b 0 a~km· t~o~~;~ fell one short of the school ~traight points ~o cut t~e lea~ 1969-70 campaign at home s~ven yearl~ngs scor~d, led by record. Jim Getman and Rein m half, and Gerry P1sanelh against Williams. The Garnet Jun Bolz w1th 20, Mike Doyle overtime Wednesday night in Eichinger eased the scoring ad d e d t h r e e m or e, will be trying for their second 'vith 19, and Bob Mitchell the fieldhouse. Jim Tedisco :load on Tedisco by chipping sandwi~hed around a Tedisco straight upset win in a game with 19. Jeff Walker added led a parade of four scorers in in with 16 and 15 points foul shot, to bring Hamilton that will mark Chirs Schmid's 1'3, John VanBenschoten 12, double figures as the respectively. Eichinger also to wit~in a. point. Pisanelli last appearance as head Curtis Rowe 9, and Bob Dutchmen netted their sixth pulled in 12 rebounds. then h1t agam from the foul coach. Schmid announced his Murphy 8. win of the season against The Garnet nearly ran line to force the first extra retirement February 4 after The win was the third in a fifteen losses. The Garnet favored Hamilton out of session. Tedisco was wide .three years as Union row for the yearlings, and Memorial Fieldhouse in the with a twelve footer at the basketball mentor. evened their season record at wind up their season .first half, running away to a buzzer. Captain Jim Getman and 7-7. They return to action tomorrow night, hosting 56·38 halftime lead. Getman Each team scored 12 reserve forward Chuck against Williams on Saturday Williams. and Eichinger led the first points in the first overtime Spaulding, the lone seniors on at 6:15. The varsity affair will Super· So ph Tedisco h.alf onslaught as Tedisco had with Tedisco getting 10 of the Garnet team, will be follow at 8 o'clock. poured in 43 points, trouble finding the range. The Union's total. Neither team including 15 in the two extra Dutchmen pulled away on lead by more than two points periods to pace Union. It was the strength of a 20-5 tear during the period. the sixth time this season that midway through the opening Sophomore Tedisco hit a he has scored 40 or more session. jump shot to tie the game at points in a single game. 'fhe second half was an 98 all with 20 seconds to go. Tedisco, who has been a one entirely different story. Getman and Tedisco man show for much of the Although Tedisco began to scored to open up a 104-100 season, received more than hit, his team mates coooled advantage in the second ample help from his team off considerably and the overtime. Hamilton came mates Wednesday night. visitors began to peck away at within 108-106 but a basket R d R •d D· A . 1 . by Getman on a pass from e Ul erS . QWR l tng Gallucci clinched the victory. Before the game, Tedisco, G l I M F • l who now holds every Union rapp erS n . · at lUU e College singl: game and single By Bl LL HOLLERAN A powerful Colgate Red Raider wrestling team took advantage of an eager but outmanned and injury-plagued Garnet wrestling squad on Wednesday afternoon, sending the Dutchmen to their third defeat in ten matches by a 23-10 score. a 7-7 draw. Morris chipped in season sconng mark, was with his second pin of the named to the weekly season, flattening Bill Roberts E.C.A.C. Division Three at 5 :44. (small college) all-star team. In pro b a b 1 y the The Garnet star earned the l1ardest-fought match of the birth by firing for 87 points day, Raider star Rich Konig edged freshman Phil Reed at 1 58, 4-3, on riding time. Konig, Colgate's \hot shot\ according to Everling, was a standout grappler in high school--a New York State champ as a junior and a finalist as a senior. Other Colgate winners included Pete Achilles (I 18), who shut out Len Solomon, 6·0; Dave McGill, who walloped frosh John Desaix 1 0-0 in the 134 bout; A1 Continued on Page 3 Photo by JODY SASLOW Once again, as had been the case in Union's outings against Rochester, Dartmouth, Clarkson, and St. Lawrence, the Garnet were not wrestling their best men. Senior 118 star Ron Ruhl, whose naging back injury was finally diagnosed as a ruptured disc last week, ended his three-year wrestling career at Union on the bench. Penn Sheldon, freshman 142 strongman, also watched from the bench, the victim of a collarbone ailment which had sidelined him since the Kings Point match a month ago. Pucksters Traveling To Hamilton For Rematch The Hockey Club returns to Clinton, New York, t<Jmorrow- morning for a re-match with Hamilton College's junior varsity. Last time out the Garnet fell to the Continentals, 5-1. booked-up RPI Field House. For a team that is alteady badly out of shape due to the Jack of practice time, this developmertt can only spell serious trouble. UP, UP, AND AWAY---Both Jim Tedisco and his Hamilton defender leap high in the air as the Garnet scoring sensation shoots for the hoop in Wednesday night's game at Memorial Field House. The Dutchmen scored a tltrilling 11o-108 upset over the ' Continentals in double overtime. as Tedisco hit for 43 points. The Garnet will close out their season tomorrow night when the Ephmen of Williams College invade. The Dutchmen have four con tests remaining, two against the Hoosac School, one versus the Lenox School, and a scrimmage with Amherst's varsity. NEW YORK TO LONDON- SUMMER VACATION TRIPS·' ROUND TRIP $169. NOW FILLING · SMALL DEPOSIT AND PAYMENTS- SEND FOR FREE DETAILS. STUDENT GLOBE ROAMERS BOX 6575 HOLLYWOOD, FLORIDA 33021 • Bill Munno, senior co-captain and 126 standout, was the victim of a weeklong, off-and-on bout with the flu and was \not himself,\ according to Everling, for his match with Steve Schreiber. Schreiber capitalized on Munno's weakened condition to hand him only his third loss in three years of varsity dual-meet competition, 6-2. Union's hockey hopes, which were so bright before the start of the season, have severely dimmed since the skaters' frrst two games two weeks ago. In their losses to Hamilton and Utica College, a 6·1 debacle, the badly out-of-shape pucksters were completely outplayed and could play the type of hockey they are capable of playing only at isolated intervals. The pucksters had practiced but six times before their season openers. \ A stellar performance by Jeff Knetzer highlighted the Gamet effort, as the senior, normally a 150 wrestler, moved down a weight class to whip Raider Tim Hart, 7-3. Hart, one of Colgate's better wrestlers, suffered his first loss of the season. Naysim Simon and Gary Morris also turned in fine efforts for the Dutchmen. Simon, wrestling way up from his normal 167 slot at 190; fought.Brian Houseal to Tile crushing blow to Garnet hockey hopes fell this week, when co-captain and goalie Dick Brickley announced that the skaters could obtain no more practice ice-time at the busy, Graubart & Sons may run .small ads, but they h;}\'e big values. Sc he nee t ody 's fomou! d•omond shop, for three generat1ons l 166 Jay St. Three Un1on Graduates m Fam11y. LUIGI'S RESTAURANT SPECIALIZING IN Italian • American Food 1125 BARRETT ST. Schenectady Dl b-9744 • Enjoy Siz.zling Steaks and Chops Visit Our Cocktail Bar J ·eost ~ToP The E Cham be iCJ ensemble Symphon) willappea ~ Sunday at Their sponsored College-Sc Concert C its 1969-7 G' Now il ( the Chat well Symphc ,., introducil the public of con Appeari • concert ' clarinet; Dwyer, . Ghitalla, ' Gibson, Gomber Stagliano ~ Sherma; Besides states ir group h~ 4 and has the Sovi their fm , the cc award. The distrib1 Union Wedne The [ in Mit Colleg1 . (:,. three tile a1 All planni next' book essays, . ' think- 10th.

