1, 1970 led by with a in from iR to a the a 9-9 head seven an Union, team 969-70 record. Jim won games the several next eserved as he to his the only was as tchman the is more it was which post in that by \getting of k into an really plans, he is talent, the that Jersey, eastern he will height, to start VOLUME, 99 NO. 46 SCHEN•ECTADY, NEW YORK, APRIL 3, 1970 PRICE TWENTY CENTS Senate Condems Racism~ B~!!R~~!E~s~~R. Comp Ed Report At a marathon two and a half hour meeting last night the student senate endorsed a resolution condemning racism on campus and endorsed the recent report of the Comprehensive Education board. other than general goodwill among students here. Any differences with the student body based on race alone, he said, are \intellectually and morally hostile to the one purpose that brings this community to!Jether in the first place. We can live with differences: racial dissentions can tear us apart.\ often heated debate over the merits of passing what one senator termed '~jsut another resolution designed to placate liberal consciences.\ The resolution condemned any overt or covert racist behavior on campus and called on all members of the college community to join in ridding the campus and society of racism. Seminar Room Dedicated, With Speech By Baily.n President Harold C. Martin addressing the meeting at the invitation of senate president Donald Kessler, cited the \brutal unfeeling, and racist attitudes of one or more students\ which had resulted in the posting of racial slurs against black students at various points on campus. He called on the senators to help eliminate racist attitudes and tensions on campus. The President said all white members of the campus community should \examine themselves constantly\ for residues of racist habits and attitudes. The President reaffirmed the colleges' comrnittment to a racially just college. He pointed to the college's participation in the Upward Bound and Academic Opportunity programs as well as increased enrollment of black students. Referring to the pace of change, he said \the real index of pace, however, is not in numbers, courses or money; it is precisely in what the Black Alliance paper calls 'attitudes', and there we all, black and non-blac have our work cut out for us.\ He said that any progress in this area was jeopardized by \a few persons bent on destruction of it unless the community as a whole, quietly and persistently, counteracts efforts to stir up trouble.\ By LOUIS S. SNITKOFF In a poignant ceremony yesterday afternoon in the Social Sciences Building, a seminar room on the second floor was dedicated to the memory of Ellsworth M. Tracy III, a history student at Union who was awarded a posthumous degree in 1967. The new room was made possible through a gift from Dr. and Mrs. Ellsworth M. Tracy, parents of the former student, who were present at the dedication. Martin On Nott President Harold C. Martin, speaking at the ceremony, briefly discussed the fmancial problems of Union during President Eli·phalet Nott's administration, while guest speaker, Professor Bernard Ballyn of Harvard was delayed due to inclement weather. President Martin emphasized the fact that economic problems have plagued small colleges for many decades, and are nothing new. Martin spoke of the lottery instituted by Nott, which brought the college over $800,000. He drew an analogy between Nott's effort to raise money for the construction of North and South College and the current need to raise funds for campus construction. President Martin was followed by Bailyn, Professor of Histocy at Harva,rd. A graduate of Williams, he did graduate work at Harvard before joining the faculty there. Bailyn's talk was entitled: \The American Revolution, An Unwanted War: Notes on Historical Relevance.\ The professor began by discussing the crises that led to the war, and the conduct of the war. Continued on Page 2 His remarks closely follwed the text of a memorandum \to all the members of the Campus Community\ which he circulated earlier in the day. It was issued in response to a list of grievances presented to him by the Black Alliance on March 6 and as a result of the racial slurs wWch followed. The President said in his memorandum that he did not think that 1!1ere was anything Noted Journal~ism A resolution, passed unanimously by the faculty on March 19 was endorsed by the student senate by a vote of 25-16 after lengthy and Max Frankel To Speak Max Frankel, chief Washington correspondent and head of the New York Times Washington news bureau, will give a public lecture at Union \Ches Bone Trees\ an outstanding new recording group, joins the WSNV /1240 \Boss Band of the Month\ at the WSNV/1240 BOSS BAND SHOW AND DANCE, Saturday evening, April 4, starting at 8:15, in the Alumni Gym. \Ches Bone Trees\ new release, \Everybody Oughta Meet My Baby\ on Fontana Records, has already started to climb the sales charts. The BOSS BAND SHOW AND DANCE is a benefit affair. Proceeds go to the \Block U\ Club. Admission is $1.50 with all tickets sold at the door. next Tuesday on the topic \President Nixon's View of America.\ He will speak in S.S. 016 at 8:00p.m. Frankel has been a full-time reporter for the Times since graduation from Columbia University in 1952. He was in Hungary during the anti-Russian revolt of 1956, in Cuba during the 1961 Bay of Pigs landing, and from 1957 to 1960 he was reporting from the Times news bureau in Moscow. Born in Germany in 1930, Frankel came to the U.S. by way of Poland after he and his family were forced to flee the Nazis. He was educated entirely in New York City, and while at Colum.bia he served as the Times college. cprrespondent. The next speaker in the College's series of lecturers will be Dr. Benjamin Spack, who will be at Union on April 14 at 8 p.m. in Memorial Chapel. He will speak on \Dissent and Social Change.\ The combined glee clubs of Simmons College, and Union, will appear in concert tonight in Memorial Chapel. The concert, which will begin at 8:30 p.m., is open to students without charge. The three-part program will begin with Haydn's \The Seasons, Part 1,\ featuring soloists Mark Barnfield and Keith Kibler, followed by a contemporary work, \Brazilian Psalm,\ by Jean Berger. Final work on the program is Bach's \Mass in B minor (Credo),\ sung bY both groups under the direction of Florence Dunn of Simmons and Hufll Allen Wilson of Union, Comp Ed Report The Camp Ed Report, issued at the end of the Winter Term, attempts a clear definition of the purposes and goals of the program, and makes some substantial proposals for the next academic year. One proposed change establishes five categories of options in Center I and Center II, in \Creative Arts,\ Projects, and the senior Disputed Question courses. Each upperclass student would be required to take six courses from at least four of those five categories. Except for the senior Disputed Questions, the courses above the required freshman Comp. Ed. 10 and 11 could be taken in any sequence. The senate endorsed the Comp Ed board report and the proposals listed in the report's appendix by a vote of 26-6. The faculty council will discuss the report on Tuesday.

PAGE2 Comp Ed' Si, !Racism No! Although there seems to be student support 'for the Comp Ed Committee's proposals for an overhaul in the upperclass election of Camp Ed courses, strong opposition h.as developed within the Center II faculty. The scientists and engineers garnered sufficient support to send the proposals back to th.e Faculty Council from the general faculty meeting held March 19. Next Tuesday, the Council will resolve th.e issue. The proposal now before the Faculty would remove one of the greatest weaknesses in the present Camp Ed program, the requiring of enrollment in certain courses. By its very nature, Comp Ed is less rigidly structured along the narrow disciplinary lines that students as well as faculty come to expect. If students come to Comp Ed courses simply because they have to (as is too often the case now), they cannot expend the energy and enthusiasm necessary to make these open-ended courses successful. This has been especially evident in the Center II Options and the Junior Year Projects. The Center II faculty is justified in its fear that the enrollment in their Options will drop if the requirement is dropped. Unfortunately, students in Center I do not share any of the enthusiasm for science that their counterparts in Center II show for the written word. Thus Comp E<ls in Center I are, even now, held in very high regard by the student body while those in Center II are often considered a waste of time. This is largely due to the nature of science; very little of substance can be taught without mathematics. Center I men tend to show little ab :ility or interest in acquiring scientific \literacy while the scientist who cannot write is considered a dolt even within his profession. Mathematical \literacy\ seems harder and less desireable to acquire, and thus few Center I men come equipped to learn more than very \watered down\ science. Yet not all science requires mathematics, and imaginative courses in such. math-related fields as engineering, and the physical sciences can surmont this problem. The computer is becoming a vital tool of the social as well as the natural scientist, and comses here should be attractive. Thus if sufficient thought is put into the design of courses, students will take Center II Options in large numbers. It is ironic that in a day wl1en the Environment is a key student issue, one of the least respected courses in the college is a Junior Year Project on water polution. If courses cannot survive on their own merits, no requirement of enrollment will make them succeed. Filling up classrooms in the new Science Center with bodies that lack attentive minds is useless and self.defeating. Admittedly, considerable work will be needed before Center II Comp Eds will be as attractive as those in Center I. But until such time as they are, buttressing the Science courses through requirements is a waste of time for students and professors. Ten eager students will make a course far more successful than a hundred men who find themselves somewhere · between somnolescense and confusion. One of the great virtues of a small college is the ease in establishing and maintaining some sort of community consciousness, free from sharp factionalism. It was thus with a keen sense of outrage and despair that most students, black and white, greeted the recent evidence of raw racism at Union. The vigorous and prompt action taken by the faculty, administration, and Student Senate in condemnation of such actions was the only possible course of action. To deny that there are at least a few racists on this campus is foolhardy. But to label the entire college community as racist, as the Black Student Alliance did in its initial publication of the ugly racial epithets that appeared around campus during exam week, is not only unfair but simply incorrect. Union College has made a substantial effort this year (one we trust will continue) to increase black enrollment and to offer courses relevant to the black experience. We think that the actions of the Power Structure during the past week have demonstrated that there indeed are men of good will on this carnpus. We are not foolish enough to thjnk th.at the years ahead will be racially easy for Union College. With. more and more black students on campus, the homogeniety that has marked this college will hopefully be replaced with many more diverse people. Tensions will grow, but hopefully, as President Martin stated, these tensions can be channeled-into positive action. But racisrn can only lead to tragedy. APRIL 3, 1970 Bailyn Dedicates Tracy Room Continued from Page 1 Early Crisis The crisis which began with the Boston Tea Party in December 1773, worsened steadily until fighting erupted in November of tl1e following year. The tension was increased, Bailyn said, by the fact that each side sensed a conspiracy on the part of the other, and neither side knew what to do. The conduct of the war was greatly influenced by the English position in the war which, according to Bailyn, differed vastly from that of the Americans. England, he said, lacked the impetus of the Americans who were defending their own homes. The English government and people would have been relatively unaffected by a British loss, On Sunday afternoon April 12, the Union College chapel will host a concert which should be one of the musical highlights of the spring. Three groups of substantial merit will appear: the Savoy Brown band, The Nice, and Family. These artists have appeared in many of the m a j o r r o c k p I a c es through out the United States and Britain. Although they have not yet gained great popular acclaim, each of these groups presents a polished, distinctive sound. Certainly, this is a show worth seeing and enjoying. whereas an American loss would have had disastrous effects on the American people. In addition, the ultimate goal of the Britons was not military victory, but a restoration of stability in the colonies. Arnedcan Army and were unable to adjust to this new type of warfare. Not Analogous Professor Bailyn went on to warn his audience against \drawing too man,y analogies\ be tween 1he Revolution and the Viet N am war, although the temptation to do so was great. '\No modern war can be the same as an 18th century war,\ he said, citing t:he communication difficulties which existed in the 170U1s. A search for these similaJities tends to destroy the study of the individual histmical occurrence, he said, and an exclusion of what was unique to that time. The Harvard scholar also cited much oppositioN to the war among English citizens who felt that it was unjust and stupid. England's principal enemy was not America, but rather France, who entered the war in 1778, thus making it unwinnable for England according to Bailyn. The English soldiers, furthermore, were unaccustomed to the \guerilla tactics\ of the r Peter P,ause 535· Nott Street DOUGLAS - Schenectady's Leading Men's Shoe Store BOSTONIAN ' BATES ' WALL-STREEIE R HUSH PUPPIES' WALK·OVER 'SEBACO-MOCS MANSFIELD* SNOW & AFTER SKI BOOTS Phone FR 4 8577 319 State Street Schenectady, N.Y. Sl OFF PURCHASE OF SHOES UPON PRESENTATION OF I. D CAR~D CJJrings CVou ~e GJ?oguish CJJeery :~: If you remember the Wanace Beery movies, you_reminisce fondly about this loveable rogue who was always in trouble. (If you don't remember them, being too young, check your TV listings. Yo11're in for a treat.) Beery often wore a ring neck knit with placket front. It's become the knii fashion of the _vear. Ours, in a wide choice of fiber and weave, $00-$00 ' ' I APRI!L I{ ( Eug, Arnold seniors Thon Found: year o and stu The each $6,00C winne college the u progra: The were Unior COm} Comm named meet Direct' forth~ Ore year i social two plans~ Kol teach, the s especi. study mod indus Lapps Fo1 renew mutm the foun1 forme invite' c ¥ Tt Coffe sprin§ ente1 fern a music Old C from K~ Rom~ tradit comp them: cone~ Barar the I: ·~ the f: exte back- K contr cone~ tear assoc thet Gasli: • and t Sprin a tm s- direc ex pre over last 1 to C force

1970 were this new on against many the Nam at. ••No same he the 1700!s. ad ties study of and an unique N.Y. ST. APRI!l3, 1970 Kokot and Drogan Receive Grants for Foreign Study Eugene V. Kokot and Arnold M. Drogen, both seniors, have been awarded Thomas J. Watson Foundation fellowships for a year of post- graduate travel and study abroad. The recipients, who wil.l ' each receive a stipend of $6,000, were among fifty-six winners at twenty-seven colleges and universities in the United States, offering programs in the liberal arts. The two Union winners were chosen to represent Union in the national competition by the Committee on Honors, which named four candidates to meet with the Executive Director of the foundation for the final screening. Drogen will spend nex.t , year in Africa studying th.e social role of the th.eatre in two African societies. lie plans a career in teaching. Kokot, who also plans ta teach, will spend next year in the Scandinavian countries, ' especially northern Sweden, stu dying the effects of modernizarion and industrialization on the Lapps. Foundation grants may be renewed for a second year by mutual agreement between the recipient and the foundation. Present and ' former fellows may also be invited in subsequent years to attend informal conferences sponsored by the foundation on topics of international relevance. This is the second year of the competition and the second time Union has had two winners. ,Film Ha:ps Winding into uGreaf\ New Fun Season By ACE According to sources deep within the Film Haps hierarchy this is the tentative (barring emergencies) schedule of films to be presented in the 7 S cents series for the next couple of weeks: Firstly a stunning series of four short. W. C. Fields leads off the cinematic menagerie with \The Barber Shop\ a compendium of his funnier vaudeville lines. The keystone cops add their speeded-up-motion humor to the group with an entry entitled, \Keystone Hotel, - watch for the chase scene. Third comes a real Chaplin classic, \The Gold Rush\ and finally, a Laurel & Hardy standard the \Murder Case\. These four offerings are slated for Sunday April Sth at 3, 7 and 9: 15 PM, in SS 016. As usual the phantom projectionist will alter focus, sound level and image size at will. One week later, to celebrate the eleventh day after the anniversary of Bismarck's birthday, the Film Haps crew will unwrap at 7 and 9:15PM a Marx brothers epic, \A Day at the Races.\ Duck Soup highlighted the end oflast term and as always the Marx brothers turn in a zany performance completely worth seeing. April 19th, for three showings at 3, 7 and 9:15PM Humphrey Bogart will sneer, glower and intimidate his way through \Casablanca as time goes by. Later on in the term we are promised, in addition to creative projection \Sympathy for the Devil,\ \Kinetic Art\ and \Putney Swope.\ April 10 is the deadline for submitting material for publication in the spring issue of The Idol campus literary magazine, editor Paul Andrews announced Monday. CoHehouse Starts Spring With. Folk Show Tonight T h e U n.to n Colle ?e attendance figures,\ said Fox. The magazine accepts essays, photographs, sketches, drawings and artistic works as well as creative literary efforts. The Idol recently placed seventh among college I iterary magazines in nationwide competition for 1969. Coffeehouse mauguarates Its \Our pilgrimage to Old spring schedule of fun and Chapel has resulted not only entertainment with two in increased attendance but in female folk singers and a much more salutary musicians at 9 p.m. tonigl:J.t in p e r f 0 r m e r - a u d i e n ce Old Chapel around the corner relationship,\ he added. from the Rathskeller. Kate McGarrigle and Roma Baran will perform traditional songs and original compositions, accompanying themselves on piano, fiddle, concertina, and guitar. Roma Baran is recognized as one of . the best female guitarists on • l the folk circuit and has done extensive recording-studio back-up work. Kate McGarrigle contributes piano, fiddle and concertina to the versatile team. Although their association is still a new one, the two have appeared at the Gaslight in New York City ~ and the Cafe Lena in Saratoga Springs. They plan to lau11.ch a tour of the Midwest soon. Steve Fox, logistics director of the coffeehonse, expressed \profound delight\ over the coffeehouse's move last term from North College to Old Chapel. \We were forced to move ,due to low FERRO PHARMACY 575 Nott Street Schenectady, N. Y. FR 7-0S 10 FOUNTAIN SERVICE One block from Brownell Gate DIAMANTE'S Enjoy Our Fine Home Cooked Italian Food in Our Comfortable Dining Room Opp. Th• Brown•ll Gate on NoH Stre_. Open Daily 10 to 1 A.M. Sundoyt 5 P.M. to I A.M. THE OTHER SIDE OF TODAY 135 Jay St. Schenectady, N.Y. SERVING THE FIVE SENSES IMPOR'l'S HANDCRAFTS 10-6 Tues.-Sats. til 9 p.m. Thurs. PAGE.3 . . . ~ - . Blither Would the Union man whose car was backed into while parked in front ofPark Pizzeria on a Saturday night in early March about 7:00 p.m. please call either of these numbers: 346-9279 (9:00 a.m. to 1:00 p.m.) or 3 77-7982. Ask for Mrs. Bailey. An important insurance account is involved. The next session of the Student-Faculty Bridge Club will be held on the seventh of April at the Hale House Faculty Lounge at 8:00p.m. All those interested in participating are welcome. The results of the last tournament held on February 24 were as follows: 1. Bob Lavin and Dave Filman 2. Prof. Lambert, Prof. Stone, and Father Gagnon 3. Love and Brundage 4. Ray Coco and Dennis Meyers fRVe has.a new ring to it. ~Carvea the lAve Ring Tlf people. TURO It's a love ring. Because you are in love you'll want a ring that says love in every way. From the exciting cut of its diamond to the graceful elegance of its setting. Such a ring is a Love Ring from ArtCarved. Do come see our ArtCarved collection soon. Use Your Master Charge Card Maurice B. Graubart & Sons (Schenectady's famous diamond shop for 3 generationr) 166JaySt. Three Union Graduates in family

PAGE 4 APRIL 3, 1970 'Notes From He.re An,d There ON Today' s Scene NEW HOOP COACH-- Gary Walters, at age 24 Union's youngest basketball coach in history, hopes next year to lead the Garnet cagers to their first winning season since 1964. with BILL HOLLERAN The Garnet lacrosse team wfil open its 1970 campaign next Wednesday afternoon, April 8, with a home contest against the Panthers of Middlebury College. Game time is 2:00 P .M' on Daley Field. The stickrnen, seeking to rebound from last year's sub-par 5-7 season, should be much stronger this spring. The squad has already demolished Siena in exhibition play, and has one more warmup to go, against the New York Lacrosse Club tomorrow. Batsmen Open The baseball team also kicks .off its 1970 slate next week, hosting Siena on Saturday afternoon, April 11. The contest will get . . . . .. -- ~-· - . ~- - \\-- .. ----·-- - -- ... .._...., ···--·-- -· . ~......, -·- ~ Track Disappoints In State by GREG HAMLIN After an impressive showing in their own Union Invitational Tournament on March 14th, the Gamet trackmen placed a disappointing eighth in the State Indoor State Track Championships held the following week. Miss First Place The Dutchmen barely missed capturing the first spot in the Invitational. The sq,uad finished with 23~ pqints, good for third place, all without the aid of injured All-American Rich Jaszczak. If the soph flash had been able to run in the meet, the Garnet could have conceivably surpassed the total of the meet champion, Cortland. Standout Efforts Outstanding performances were turned in by the mile-relay team, the J.V. medley relay, and Mike Rich and Gray Watkins. Rich, who is in Vienna this term, will not compete this spring. The mile-relay team; made up of Pete Ericson, Alan Prysunka, Tim McCabe, and Steve Wood, sprinted to a 3:35.7 victory. Wood also tied for a third in the 600 yard event. Rich copped a first in the high jump, while Ed Rawley finished fourth in the competition. The J.V. medley quartet, led by Rich Fogarty,_ Art Riccio, Larry Thornton, and Rick Jones also captured a first place spot. Freshman Watkins fmished third in the pole vault, clearing a season best of 13' 6\. Another freshman, Bill Clayton, garnered a fourth. Disappoint In States The Gamet's disappointing showing in the State meet one week later was probably caused by the dual effects of fatigue and emotional let-down. Although Rich Jaszczak again did not run, the Garnet failed to finish higher than third place in any event. McCabe Sparkles Tim McCabe turned in the most outstanding performance for the Dutchmen. The freshman, running the 600 for only the second time in his life, tied for third place in an event which saw the first five finishers hit the tape almost sim~ltaneously. April April Sired -x-8 Lacrosse *11 Baseball *11 Lacrosse *11 Lacrosse 14 Tennis 17 Baseball *17 Tennis *17 Golf 18 Baseball 18 Lacrosse 18 Tennis *22 Baseball 22 Lacrosse (F) *22 Lacrosse 22 Tennis 22 Track «·24 Baseball *24 Tennis 24 Golf *25 Lacrosse *25 Track *28 Baseball *29 Tennis *29Golf *HOME GAMES Pennel Esso Service N ott Street Corner Of Van Vranken Middlebuury 2:00 Siena 2:30 Stevens 2:00 Stevens 2:30 Bard 2:00 Drew 3:00 Hobart 2:00 New Paltz 1:00 Stevens 1:30 Hobart 2:00 Stevens 1:30 Williams 2:30 Cortland 3:30 Hamilton 3:00 Middlebury 3:15 Trinity 3:00 Rochester 2:30 Hamilton 2:00 Albany State Oneonta 1:30 Alfred 2:00 St. Lawrence 3:00 R.P.I. 2:30 R.P.I. 2:00 Hobart 1:00 THE PEANUT STORE feoluring PLANTEilS HOT ROASTED PEANUTS and Nutmeat' from all over the world. 406 STATE ST. underway at 2:30 P.M. on Alexander Field. The light-hitting batsmen, operating this season without last year's star senior hurlers Bill Neidel and Jae Douglas, are in need of both hitting and pitching help if they are to improve on i 969's 7-3 record. The squad will be made up entirely of freshmen, juniors, and seniors, as aot one sophomore made the team this spring. Walters Helps N ewly~named basketball coach Gary Wal,ters should be a boon to Union's basketball hopes. The 24-year old former Middlebury mentor was a star player at Princeton on the Tigers' Bill Bradley championship teams, and wants to win badly at Union, He will have much better material to work with next winter than his predecessor, Chris Schmid, had last season gaining a 7-15 slate. If Troy high-school star Tom Bacher decides to play after sitting out his freshman year, the Garnet starting five will be 6' 5\ Bacher, 6' 5\ Jim B dlz or 6'3\ Rit Gallucci, and 6'3\ Mike Doyle up frent, along with 6' 1\ Dave Shames and 5'8\ scoring sensation Jim Tedisco in the backcourt. Walthers reputation as a college player should also help him lure recruits in years to come. DOUBLE YOUR PLEASURE! DOUBLE YOUR PLEASURE ... by being impeccably double- bre~sted. One way to be expansive, our six-buttoned blazer of ftn~s~ polyestert~orsted hopsack. Pleasurably light and cool, 1t IS crafted With .unusual attention to styling details. Note the extra·long s1de vents, authoritative lapels and smooth fall of the shoulders. A try-on? Our pleasure. ' T grou Apri Adn Mus F R B, Th Cl\11 Envir~ past J stud sci en citize them~ actiot en vir< OJ upcm H y: Envir Dr. ' Atm Rese~ Unde 5000 pollu • r dist volun Area. A expo: samp for t Sch~ comr for anal: .;. cont~ p~ itself work natio is ~ cone~ 1 Carl bill, Brin1 been

3. 1970 Bradley and Union, better next season If Troy Bacher sitting the will be Bdlz or 6'3\ along and Jim as a also sin years blazer and and VOLUME, 99 NO. 47 SCHENECTADY. NEW YORK, APRIL 7, 1970 PRICE TWENTY CENTS The Savoy Brown Blues Band, which is visible above, is the group headlining what should be a .fine concert this Sunday, April 12. Also appearing on the bill are The Nice and Family. Admission price is $2.50 in advance and $3.50 at the door. Musical festivities will begin at 3:00 in the Fieldhouse. PYE Club Organizing Rally for Environment By STEPHEN AMI RA The Schenectady PYE Club (Protect Your Environment), organized this past January, is a coalition of students, educators, scientists, and concerned citizens who have committed themselves to cor.structive action in the aie3 of the of Representatives by Congressman Daniel Button, but presently rests in the Interstate Commerce Committee. The Club plans to promote the bill throughout the country by way of a massive publicity campaign. April 22 has been Continued on Page 3 Black Arts Weekend Will Highlight Poetry and Dance The Burundi African Dancers and Drummers and noted poet Gylan Kain, noted black poet will be featured during the upcoming Black Arts Weekend, April 17-19, Bill Adams, Weekend publicity chairman announced today. Adams said that \this year's festival will contain something for everyone. We are offering a variety of entertainment to the college community, not only as entertainment but also in the hope that the messages imparted by these performers will educate members of the audience ... black and white.\ As was presented last year, there will be an art exhibit featuring works of local individuals on Friday and Saturday from 12 Noon to 6:00P.M. Friday at 8:30 P.M. in the Field House, the Burundi African Dancers and Drummers will perform. Gylan Kain, a black poet, will follow. Reading his works and the works of other black poets, Kain will be backed by three men providing a musical and dramatic background. Afterward the noted poet's performance, there will be a dance in the gymnasium, featuring Miss Maggie's Children, of upstate New York fame. Preston Wilcox, fanner professor at Columbia University and present head of the National Association of Afro-American Educators, will speak about, \African-Americans in the 1970's,\ in Memorial Chapel at 1:30 P.M. on Saturday. Foil owing his address several seminars will be conducted in the Humanities Buildings. Leading the various discussion groups will be Florence Kennedy, a New York lawyer; J. Metz Rollins, black minister actively involved in writing the Black Manifesto; Limbo, a group of whites dedicated to the eradication of white racism; Reggie Gilliam, professor in the Afro-American Studies Department at SUNY A; William Daniels, professor of Political Science at Union; and Maude Branic, Audrey Harvey, Upward Bound Director Peter Crawford, Ron Brooks and Andrew Gill, black people active in the Schenectady community. The topics of ·discussion will be: the African-American and the law; the African-American and Christianity; racism; politics and economics in the black community; and local issues affecting African· Americans. On Saturday evening, a movie (admission free) entitled, \What Do You People Want?\ will be shown in Social Sciences 016. It will feature Huey Newton, Bobby Seale and Eldridge Cleaver. Fallowing the movie there will be a performance by the Epworth Chorale Ensemble beginning at 8:30 P.M. in Memorial Chapel. They will be followed by the Muntu Players, a group of black high school students depicting various aspects of the black experience through song, dance and poetry. Sunday afternoon will· feature an informal jam session involving members of the college and the Schenectady community at 1 P.M. in Old Chapel. Mounties Plan Three Spring Productions 'The Mountebanks are presenting two full length plays during the Spring Term and cooperating on a third, according to Steve Katz, ,. environment. One of the major upcoming PYE projects is HYE (Help Your Environment) conceived by Dr. Vohlker Monen of the Atmospheric Sciences Research Center in Albany. Under the center's auspices, 5000 sedimentation foils (air poilu tion samplers) have been In Cooperation With Skidmore president of the organization. Auditions for One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest, which is slated to be the term's second production, are being held tonight and tomorrow night in Nott Memorial Theatre at 7:30p.m. • • distributed to citizen volunteers in the Tri-Cities Area. After one month's t exposure to the air, the samplers are to be collected for the purpose of analysis. Schenectady PYE is committed to 250 man/hours for quantitative chemical analysis for benzopyrene content on the foils. PYE has distinguished itself by actually forwarding a workable solution to the national pollution problem. It is a bill. proposed and conceived by ecologist Dr. 1 Carl George of Union. The bill, dubbed the \Hans Brinker\ Bill, has already been introduced in the House Environmental Courses Set By LOUIS S. SNITKOFF The Biological Sciences Department, instituting a program in Environmental Studies, will introduce three new courses over a three year period. The program will involve students from both Union and Skidmore. Beginning in Fall, 1970, a course entitled \Evolution of the Environment\ will be offered. The course \Vill concern. \changes in the relationships of plants and animals and their interaction with the physical environment and with the activities of man,\ according to Professor Robert C. Dalgleish, of the Biology Department. The coordinators of the program are Professor Harold H. Howard of Skidmore, Prof. Dalgleish, and Professor Francis Lambert, also of Biology. In addition to \Evolution of the Environment,\ which will be offered each fall, two additional courses will be offered in alternate years, beginning with \Evolution of Species\ in 1 971 and \Physiological Ecology\ in 1972. The courses will each consist of eight hours of field work, laboratory and lecture daily during the three weeks immediately prior to the beginning of fall term and weekly seminars during the term itself. The facilities of Union and Skidmore, in addition to the Huyck Preserve in Rensselaerville, which will be the cite of most of the field work, will be used during the program. 'The three professors involved in the program each specialize in different areas of biology, giving students a variety of approaches to the subject of Environmental Study. The philosophy behind the program, .said Dalgleish, is that \the environment is a complex series of interactions and one person cannot do it justice.\ In addition to the three \core faculty,\ there will be gu e.st lecturers by other faculty members from Union and Skidmore and Capital District biologists. The first course will be given for eighteen students, about one-third of whom will come from Skidmore. Anyone interested in the course should see Professor Dalgleish, Bailey Hall room 205. 'The first of the productions to be presented, tentatively scheduled for April 23, 24, 25, is The Promise by Aleksei Arbuzov, It is a touching story about two young men and a young woman who meet in a derelict Leningrad apartment during Wo:dd War Two. The play traces their lives over the next fifteen years. The Promise will be directed by Christopher Kennedy and will star Lois Kelly, Rich Mendoza, and Steve Katz. The script for Cuckoo's Nest was adapted from Ken Kesey's novel by Dale Wasserman, who also wrote the script for Man of Ia Mancha. There are over twenty roles in the play, which will be directed by Henry Weil, instructor of Drama and it offers an excellent opportunity for anyone interested in acting Continued on Page 3

PAGE 2 To All Students: Although the Social Committee is unable to produce any more concerts this academic year, it has been brought to our attention that a great number of students wish to have a concert in the Spring. Because of the financial situation of both the Social Committee and the Tax Committee, in order to present the desired concert we must turn to you-the student. If the students want a concert they will support the following proposal, if not a Spring concert is impossible. We propose this: all students interested in a concert will voluntarily tax themselves $3.00 payable to their student senator by Tuesday, April 14. This money will go to finance the concert which will be held Friday, May 8 as part of Pop culture Week (May 5·10). Students who contribute the money will be admitted to the concert and will be able to purchase one additional ticket for their dates at $2.00. All students who do not; pay will be charged $4.00 per ticket. ' Unless 800 students (one-half the student body) express their desire to have this concert by voluntarily taxing themselves $3.00, we will not be able to present it. We cannot say who will perform because we need to know the amount of money we will have to spend. The Social Committee offers this proposal not because we want to produce a concert, but because many students have expressed an interest in it. The rest is up to you. Projections Of the major performers in Sunday night's016 presentation of four fJJ.m shorts the following may be safely said: 1) That Groucho Marx and several nameless keystone cops are still alive and that, 2) W.C. Fields, three Marx brothers, Laurel & Hardy, and the movie projectors are dead. The condition of the projectors has moved an unhappy course from amusing if annoying, to embarassing and not to disgusting. No amount of bubble gum, repairing ingenuity or budget watching mitigates the fact that these projectors need replacement, and immediate replacement. Campus entertainment programs share the use of these machines with professors including fJJ.ms in their academic programs. Therefore the approximately $1300 dollars required to replace these machines and upgrade the mediocre sound system should be split by these sources. The contribution of each side is not burdensome especially over a two or three year period when measured against the valuable services these machines can be made to provide. We urege the Tax Committee and the Administration to confer with those students most interested, the Film Haps personnel, and make arrangements for immediate replacement of the projectors. ~i(t-------....., .,:) 'of' .. ~ [. ((J 11 ~ \I ., ~ 0 • \!.!.Dttror CO'r/.i& uttn51!3 ·XL~.· \-· ,.,. Publ 1 shed Tuesday and Fnday E dltOrJal Ofloce Old Gym, durong the School year by the Unoon C::>llege ~ublocatoon Student Body of· Unoon Offoce. Whl!ehurst PrJntong & College. Schenectady. 'II Y Bon<11ng Co. Inc 416 418 N at , on a I Advert o song F ofth Ave . Troy, ;?35 4450 Representatove Natoon.:~l E:.ntered on the Schenectilc1~ E ducatoonal Advertosong Post Offoce as Soconc1 Class Service, Inc., College Maol Matter Subscroptoon 20 Publishers Representatove 360 cents a copy $6 a year Lexington Avenue. N Y.C delovered anywhere on the \,)noted Stdtes Henry G. Fem William Ouzer Editors-in-Chief Peter J. Weingold .............. . Managing Editor Jeff Birn ..................... Business Manager William J. Holleran . . . . . .......... Sports Editor Jody Saslow ................ Photography Editor M. Paul Andrews ............ Contributing Editor Richard Patterson ............ Contributing Editor NeilS. Kramer ................. Editor Emeritus Staff: Robert A. Levine, Danny Shocket, David Uguccioni, Louis Snitkoff, Tony Faga .. Doug Wong, M. Grossman, Mike Gottlieb, John Harrigan, Peter Bickerman, Kevin Roberts, Michelle Vottis, Lloyd Bims, Michael Swirsky, Neil Green, Douglas Tosh, George Kaplan, Charles Long, Mark Shugoll, Greg Hamlin, Mike Humber, Dennis Alsofrom, Stu Moss, Bruce Garber, Hank Levine, Dave Conrey, Doug . · Binder. APRil,. 7, 1970 COFFEHOUSE Casual Encounter By URB ANAL On the advice of our very good friend the long-winded lady, we decided to go to the Coffeehbuse in Old Chapel last Friday night in order to hear some folk music. Doffmg our usual attire, we donned clothes which we thought would be more suiable for what we wrongly assumed would be an ''artsy-craftsy\ atmosphere. Crude broadsides had announced the week before that two girls, Kate McGarrigle and Roma Baran, fresh from the well-know Gaslight Coffeehouse in the City, would play blues and original pieces on an assortment of appropriate instlUments. We were pleased to fmd a pleasant atmosphere upon entering the room--all the more welcome since it moved us to write this favorable review. Declared \persona non grata\ by the Montebanks, and much the same thing in far less elegant terms, in English, by various fraternities because of ce~tain newspaper articles we had written, we had been faced with the dreary prospect of a season of no more com pi imentary theater tickets, free beer, and other bribes. The Coffeehouse offered both a chance to :restore the status quo and :have a friendly evening of entertainment. In one corner of the room, .the two girls, flanked by tall, grey speakers, soon gegan a set of original compositions, effectively arranged and orchestrated. Kate, alternating between piano, fiddle, and, later, the melodian; and Roma, playing guitars and cello, won the appreciation of a gradually growing audience. Looking around us, we could see boys and their dates fade into the mood of the occassion--a willingness to let the performers touch them with thoughts and impressions about love, travel, and other good and bad times. With the two girls singing in a close, almost mountain harmony, Kate's amazing voice predominating, the effect was electric, especially on songs such as \You Can Lead A Horse To Water,- But A Pencil Must Be Lead,\ an original tragi-comic paen to Saratoga, and its past. The virtuosity of the two girls, we have been lead to believe, is typical of much of the entertainment offered so far this vear. . . During an intermiSSIOn, we talked with manager Steve Fox, asking him whether or not the Coffeehouse, with its present level of p'rofessiomll and semi- professional entertainment, offered a viable alternative to the general student exodus from the campus on Friday afternoon for the weekend--a place where students unwilling or unable to go away, or students looking for something to do at Union ,for themselves and their dates, might have a place to come. \Yes Fox replied. Moving over to the ominously perking coffepot, which serves the free product which gives the Coffeehouse its name, we decided to try a cup of what a precee<!ling imbiber had called \pseudo-espresso\ before pouring the liquid into the sink. We found the informal conversation around the urn tasteful, if not its product, and, when the time came for further music, returned to our seat refreshed. At the end of the evening, we left, looking forward to future weeks, which promise more evenings of jazz and folk music from local and touring performers and groups on weekends--events not lightly dis- missed in these days of socially barren terms with nothing to do. Boss Band Show, Dance: Woodstock, Shame On You By JOHN HARRIGAN the older chubs--say, around thing together. Despite minor Over the past several years sixteen. altercations, the spirit was the rock scene has spread My disbelief grew as I was festive and, in short, things throughout the land from the swept up by some DJ and couldn't have gone better. Matrix and Avalon Ballrooms entered in a dance contest. This generation keeps rollin' in San Francisco to Bill Naturally I lost since I hadn't on; first Woodstock, then the Adam's Fillmore East. Last brushed up on my twist, and Isle of Man, and now summer, Max Yasqur's farm because of my late arrival I Schenectady. became Woodstock and the obviously hadn't gotten my spirit of Woodstock was D c B certainly in evidence last rama ourse egun Saturday night, in the . ~~~~i~~.c~~!Ycom~~~~ In Lighting And known as the Union Alumni Design Gym. Ostensibly, the event was a local \Battle of the Bands\ sponsored by WSNY for the benefit of the Union Block U Society. Little did the producers know, however, that the event would turn into three solid hours of music, peace, and love as all the turned on beautiful people of the Capital District gathered for the event which could easily be termed a free form tribal, love-rock musical jam session for the now people and their mystical leader, Peter Fonda. Disregarding the ineredible music, it was evident that what made the show was the crowd; a mixture of grammar school groupies, junior pseudo· motorcyl e-gangers who had cardboar in their bicycle wheels, and more turned-on high school kids who grooved through their long hair, buckskin vests and braces. Then, of course, there were the Union men who sat in disbelief or searched out By MICHELE VOTTIS \Scene Design and Stage Lighting\ the new course offered in the Arts this spring is a \rather ambitious attempt for one semester\ according to Mr. David Golden, the recently appointed course instructor. Mr. Golden, currently working toward a PHD., is a recipient of an M.A. degree in Theatre from S.U.N.Y. at Albany. Drama 18 outlines the background and training prerequisite to designing in the modern theatre. It divides the study of scene design into three parts: scene design, execution of the design, and stage lighting. This OJ;der traces the sequence of steps in developing a setting from conception to full production. Part 1, the concept of scene design, emphasizes practical application of basic design principles to modern staging methods. It stresses the function of scene design in its relation to the play, and the visual contribution of design to the production as a whole, as well as working procedures and presentation techniques. Part 2, technical production, exposes the reader to construction techniques and methods of moving scenery on the stage. It points out the importance of knowing both the possibilities and the limitations of materials and space. Part 3, on lighting, begins with the principles of electricity and lighting instruments and goes on to analyze the equipment needs of educational and community producing groups. 'This sequence outlines the reasoning that each designer must go through . in planning and executing his concepts. ' l APRIL i H By LAN The \Nothin The Ad Madiso , modes1 further Robbin: manage: sympatl slight C< and a charact~ fllm d gratui1 absurd than R create. ' Lev direc1 co-scrip fJJ.mwi of rul nose in they c con tin happin1 crowd celebra are goi.l Nov of st killings as blo Dirty I is to s! killing~ depth, The Ia very rE violer reason! Adver bloodl, is v therefc Gilber· Contir desig Gaylo Day\ 1 9. en vir' aware with Schen condt par ad starti.l and 1 Coun the c remc Brink begm Ot the ( the s teach info semir movi~ spea John the Serv EdUI Depa Time effec1 entir€ Tl ofth,

7, 1970 ter Steve ther or IVith its ~ssional sional 1red a o the 1s from Friday kend--a Jdents to go dng for 1ion .for dates, • ·come. :o the Jffepot, Jroduct ~ehouse to try a ceecling ~ailed before 1to the nformal the urn >roduct, ame for ned to the end re left, future ;e more 1d folk touring ups on ;htly dis- [ socially ng to do. ou Lin or was lings ~tter. )llin' 1 the now 1n • 1gn of basic modern stresses te design play, and ttion of tion as a working sentation :hnical >ses the truction thods of ;he stage. tportance ~th the nd the rials and tg, begins iples of lighting es on to ~nt needs al and oducing equence ring that nust go ling and ~ts. APRIL 7, 1970 Robbins Novel Now Film Is Lost In Tran·slation By LANCE FALDUCCIWITZ The ads proclaim, \N othlng has been left out of The Adventurers.\ For once, Madison Ave. has been modest; the movie goes further than the Harold Robbins novel. The fUm manages to eliminate any sympathetic characters, any slight connection with reality, and any depth in the characterization. What the fllm does have is more gratuitous violence and absurd sexual encounters than Robbins would dare to create. Lewis Gilbert, who directed \Alfie has co-scripted and directed the fllm with the express purpose of rubbing the audience's nose in the fJ.lth he supposes they came to see. The f:dm continuously juxtaposes happiness and violence. If a crowd of peasants are celebrating, you know they are going to be massacred. Now, there are two ways of showing screen mass killings; one way is to show it as bloodless fun, i.e. \The Dirty Doxen;\ the other way is to show the horror of the killings to give the film added depth, i.e. \The Wild Bunch.\ The latter type must have a very real need to portray this violence. By all logical reasoning, the killings in \The Adventurers\ should be bloodless fun, but instead, it is very realistic, and therefore, sickening; it is as if Gilbert was punishing the audience for wanting. to see the film. Gilbert's interpretation of the characters is strange; in the book, Dax, the hero, is much more sympathetic than the heartless gig()lo he is in the I:dm. Sue Ann Daley is transformed from a lusty nymphomaniac into a poor little rich girl Robert De Coyne, the rich Jewish banker's son wh.o discovers his reason for existence tilling the soil of Israel, in ihe fllm is no longer a Jew and instead becomes a dope fiend and the lackey for a. mthless financier. In fact, the characters in the novel were for the most part happy; in the film, they are all miserable. The resulting film is dull and lifeless. Most of the actors, a poor man's all-star cast, seem to give to the film what everyone with intelligence greater than a carrot knows tha1: it deserves. The hero, portrayed by a cardboard cut·ol.lt that has been given the name Bekim Fenhui, may be the only South American revolutionary with a Hungarian accent. The dialo~ue, lifted exactly from the novel, is totally pseudo-cliche. There are lines like, \C.orteguay will always belong to the Revolution,\ \Until you discover there is evil in politics, you are useless to us,\ ad nauseum. As I said before, Gilbert's direction can only be described as punishing. Where the violence is sickeningly exposed, the sex scenes are seen through mirrors, water, and any other medium that distorts ima;ges. The symbolism would only surprise. .an unimaginative rock. The photography is surprisingly colorless when focused on nature scenes, and garish.ly bright when photographing explosions, gushing blood, and military ceremonies. The film pretends to be a depiction of how the Beautiful People wish they could afford to live; their wealth ·is contrasted by their empty, loveless lives. The entire fum can be summed up by a description of my favorite killing. The hero comes upon his enemy as this villian has a knife impaled in his arm. The hero twists the knife in the wound, removes the knife, and the camera cuts to the knife at the hero's hip. With great determination, the knife goes straight forward into the corresponding area of the villain's body. Miraculously, we do not see the penetration, but the look of surprise on the villains face. The camera again goes to the hero's hip, the knife again flies forward., and again we see the villain having trouble comprehending the situation. Johnson Scheduled At Teachln Continued from Page 1 designated by Senator Gaylord Nelson as \Earth Day\ and the week of April 19, as a week of environmental action and awareness. In coordination with a national effort, the Schenectady PYE Club will conduct a \litter pick-up\ parade on Tuesday, April 21, starting from Union's grounds and ending in front of the County Office Building. Here, 1 • the collected garbage will be removed and the \Hans Brinker\ campaign officially begun. On WEdnesday April 22, the College Grounds will be the site of an environmental teach-in. Included will be information displays, seminars, discussion groups, movies, and a series of speaker-S including C.C. Johnson, the administrator of the Environmental Health Service of the Health, Education, and Welfare Department. According to Time Magazine, \ ... he is in effect the policeman of the entire U.S. environment.\ The fourth major activity of the Club is its participation in the Bridgehead Program--a project of the National Nature Conservancy that seeks to purchase land with money raised from the sale of trees. The land is to be left in its natural state. There is much to be done and more help i:s needed! Buy a PYE buttoa, have your living unit raise $25 and buy a tree, or volunteer your services. Any concerned individual is welcome to our meetings held every Monday at 4:30 in SS llO. For further information, call Steve Amira or Victor Lerish at 346-8092. Mountebanks Plan Season Continued from Page 1 but who has little or no previous experience. Cuckoo's Nest is scheduled for presentation on two weekends: May 14, 15, 16, and 21, 22, and 23. Dean H()ffm an, in cooperation with the Department of the Arts and the Mountebanks, will direct and present Samuel Beckett's Endgame. &eckett was awarded the Nobel Prize for literature last autumn for his plays, which reflect his existential philosophy. Hoffman has cast John Devlin, Tom Hord, Jon Littman, and Maria Scafuro, in the four roles. Performances will be given on May 28, 29, and 30. Positions as stage manager for Cuckoo's Nest and The Promises are still open, and positions on the technical and business staffs for all three plays are available. Anyone who is interested should contact either Steve Katz (372-3994) or Rich Mendoza (346-9386). Members of the classes of '71 - and '72 can become candidates for eligibility to live off campus next year by signing up for the \Housing Lottery\ at the Office of Residence Programs. Entrance in the lottery will be available until Friday, April 17. At present it is expected that all members of the class of '71 who enter the I ottery wAI be permitted to live off campus. Those in the classes of '72 and '73 who are interested may enter the lottery although for these students permission is more doubtful. PAGE 3 · · Blither Nina Simon will be appearing at State University of New York at Albany on Saturday, April 11, 1970. A vezy limited supply of tickets is available from Michel Adefumi Williams at 406 South College (346-9895). Max Frankel The Black P:::.;:..~her Party Paper is now on the shelves in Schaefer Library or. :....'le mezzanine. Sigma Chi Clam Bake Tickets now on sale. Price: $3. Date: Aprill8 For further information contact: 346-9582. Tonight The C~apel 8:00 cv iamonds ~----~---1 go straight to the heart on Valentine's Day FROM $150.00 U.se your !\laster Charge Card Graubart & Sons (Sehenel'tady's famous diamond shop, for three gene\\ai:ions) 166 Jay St. Tlm•t• Union Graduates in Family

PAGE4 lax Opens Tomorrow; Veterans Set Defense ,ByMA.RK SHUGOLL A seemingly talented Union Lacrosse team will open its 1970 campaign tomorrow afternoon as it hos.ts Middlebury College, at 2 P .:NI. on Daley Field. stickman need ·experience to learn, and can get it only by playing. As in previous years, the three top teams on Union's schedule are perennial powers Cortland State, Syracuse, and Hobart. Trinity, who had a great freshman team last year, should also be tough, while St. Lawrence, who beat Union in 1969, also boasts some fme sophomore talent. APRIL 7, 1970 The varsity lacrosse team, shown here sco~ing in last year's 8-4 win over Trinity, hopes this spring to improve upon last season's sub-par 5-7 mark. The stickmen, who open against Middlebury tomorrow, will look to a strong defense and the return of scoring sensation Wayne Christie to attack. A roster of 11 lettermen and 22 sophomores will attempt to rebound from last years disappointing 5-7 season in a sport that has a traditionally strong history at the college. The team is coa:ched by Bruce Allison, a former All-American .at CortLand, entering his twelfth sea~~n as Union Lacrosse mentor. Orioles, A's .Slwuld Win in AL Defensive Strength 1lhe team's strength should lie in its defense, led by vet{:rans Dan Gould, Kevin Mo!Wlan, and goalie Ed Greene. Both Gould, who has been named one of the Ga111et' s two co-captains, and Monahan missed part of last sea.son with injuries. Greene, a converted midfielder, showed constant imJlrovement las season, and is rated highly by Allison. Also vying for defensive pnsitions are sophomores Mike Peng, Garry Drummond, Tom Reif, and Eel Young. Bob Erlandson, last year's freshman goalie, will see reserve duty at that p()sition. Jullior Bruce Dugan, the team's fourth-leading scorer a ye~r ago, leads the list of returnees at the midfield p()sitions. Dugan scored eight goals and added six assists last year. He will team with senior Jim Sabella and sophomore Norm Stavin to form Union's first line. The second trio will bdng together Ron Wall, who m issecl last season while stuclying abroad, senior Rich Swan, and Junior Steve Cies.1nski. ihe third and fourth lines will consist of juniors Bill Larc:elere, and John Howell, a.nd sophomores Don Th()mpson, Tom Steckman, Bill Waldron, and Ken R osenthal. Coach Allison ex:pects scoring power from all four lines. Last spring's third leading scorer and co-captain Doug Dll'f\al i.s the team's only r~ttuning attackman. Duval ta.llied 12 goals a.nd 12 assists in 1969, tops among r~tturring lettermen. Sophomore Wayne C:llristie will also be counted 011 to do a large share of the scoring. Christie, who missed a year of school due to illness, was Union's leading freshmen scorer two years ago and one of the top scholastic players on Long Island in high school. Another quintet of sophomores, Barry Gross, Mark Sandersen, AI Smith, a11d. Dave Block, will add to the attack. Expects Mistakes Coach Allison figures his team to be improved over last yea1's version, but with 22 sophomores on the squad, he is. .expecting mistakes. The By BILL HOLLERAN and HENRY FEIN In spring, a young sportswriter's fancy turns to thoughts of baseball predictions. Accordingly, we have decided to venture our own prognostications on the new baseball campaign just like every other tow-bit hack in America. Here goes, first of all with the American League: American League East Baltimore Boston Detroit Washington New York Cleveland Baltimore has to be the favonte in the AL's East Division. The Orioles are blessed with fine pitching, good hitting, speed, bench strength, youth, experience, and just about anything else you can think of which is required for a pennant-win- ner. The dark memory of last October's loss to the Mets, however, could allow the rest of the field to pull within eight or ten games by the end of September. Boston For Second The Red Sox should beat o u t t h e Ti g.e r s f o r second-place. In addition to having one of the finest outfields in baseball and a more than adequate infield, the Sox can look to an improved mound staff this year, and don't forget that the Tigers must play the season without Denny McLain-one of the best two or three hurlers in the game, whether you like him or not. After the top two or three teams. Chaos sets in. The Senators, one of last year's two surprise teams, who have developed into a solid-hitting club under manager Teddy Ballgarne, may get enough pitching out of their shoddy staff to carry them as high as third, depending on how the Tigers react to tlte loss of McLain, or sink th.em as low as fifth. Everyone expects miracles out of the Y anJcees this season, but too m~ny hopes rest on the shoulders of Pete Ward and Danny Cater, off-season trade acquistions. However, Ward, the former Chicago journeyman, and Cater, a solid-hitting first baseman, could gi'f\e ihe club an immense lift if they live up to expe.ctations. The Yanks even have a fme pitching staff (second best in the East last year), but the situation in New York remains too \iffy\ for the Yankees to go 11ny higher tha.n fourth. Even Thurmond Munson won't make the difference. What can be said a.bout the Cleveland Indians? Absolutely nothing--the Tribe is basically a poor ballclub, and should finish in the cellar. American league West Oakland Minnesota Kansas City California Milwaukee Chicago The West Division of the AL is essentially composed of two very good teams who will battle for the pennant and four very mediocre teams who will fmish far behind in just about any order you wish--as was the case last season. Best In the West Oaklnad and Minnesota are both solid, well-balanced ballclubs. Oakland, a team blessed with youth, speed, promising pitching, and fine hitting (in the persons of Reggie Jackson, Sal Banda, Felipe Alou, and others), were hurt last season by mis-management, public apathy, and inexperience which caused them to panic down the stretch. Look for the A's to give the strong but aging Twins a fme battle for first place honors in the West. After that--eeechh. THE OTHER SIDE OF TODAY 135 Jay St Schenectady, N.Y. SERVING THE FIVE SENSES IMPORTS HANDCRAFTS 10-6 Tues.-Sats. til 9 p.m. Thurs. DOUGLAS Schenr?ctady 's Leading Men's Shoe Store BOs-TONIAN • BATES • WALL STREETER HUSH PUPPIES • WALK OVER • SEBAC'O.MOCS MANSFIELD • SNOW & AFTER SKI BOOTS Ph one F R 4 85 77 319 State StreEt Schenectady, N.Y. Sl OFF PURCHASE OF SHOES UPON f>'RESENTATION OF I D CAR_D Our ruminations on the National League will appear in Friday's issue. And if you don't agree with what we have ,to say, write to Con()ordy. If enough people disagree, we'll publish a reader's consensus in a future issue. Student airfares to Europe start at $120 Icelandic has the greatest travel bargain ever for stu· dents .•• our brand new $120* one,way fare to Luxembourg in the heart of Europe. If you're travelling to ~r from your studies at a fully accredited college or university, and are 31 years old or under, you qualify for this outstanding rate. It's an individual fare, not a charter or group; you fly whenever you want, and can stay up to a year. Inter- ested? Qualified? Also, if you are thinking of Europe but not for study, we've got the lowest air fares. Call your travel agent or write for Student Fare Folder CN. Icelandic Airlines, 630 Fifth Ave. (Rockefeller Center) New York, N.¥.10020. *Slightly higher In peak season. ICELANDIC A,;,~/iEs '0 J.O.?JL.dli!JJJJ STILL LOWEST AIRFARES TO EUROPE of af'IY sch.edu/ed airline. ) . gro Ap Ad Mu I D natio doct< been most Viet Mem April Soci~ T pedi J ''Bal: of t was, co-cl ' · Corr Nucl thret co-cl ConJ F relat ,. ' on 1 and cha: gove to 1 evad r: wert in a held was the: f thro beh: Leg: org mo con: I put lnd1

1970 _ ... - .. . . . :->_·--·.:- ' •. l the if you at we to people ish a future stu· new to of a or for It's a fly and nter- o, if got Call CN. Fifth peak ~ 0 .) • tS VOLUIV1E. 99 NO, 48 SOH:EN€GTAOV,-NEW YORK, APRIL 10, 1970 PRICE TWENTY CENTS The Savoy Brown Blues Band, which is visible above, is the group headlinirag what should be a fine concert this Sunday, April 12. Also appearing on the bill are The Nice and Family. Admissi<Jn :price is $2.50 in advance and $3.50 at the door. Musical festivities will begin at 3:00 in the Fieldhouse. Benjamin Spack Will Speak Here Tuesday Dr. Be11jamin Spock, nationally known children's doctor who ruore recently has been one of the country's most outspoken critics of the Viet Nam War will speak in Memorial C:bapel at 8 p.m., April 14, on \Dissent and Social Change.\ Political Behavior,\ a book where he examines what he concludes is man's loss of idealism in contemporary culture and the political and psychological effects of that loss. The New Left Leader no longer teaches medicine, having retired from the faculty of Western Reserve University in Cleveland in 1967. Council Modifies Comp Ed; Also Passes Theme Major By PETER J. WEINGOLD The Faculty Council took a major step toward a less structured curriculum Tuesday afternoon when they approved overwhelmingly a modified Comprehensive Education proposal and a new major drawn around an organizing theme. Under the new Comprehensive Education proposal upperclassmen will be required to take five courses drawn from three out of five course-programs, with only one course required to be either a Project or an option outside the Center of the student's major. The course-programs offered will be options in the Humanities and Social Sciences, options in Science and Engineering, options in Creativity, projects, and disputed questions. The modified proposal was presented to the Council by Prof. Charles Olton, Chairman of the Comp. Ed. board, in response to criticism of the board's original proposal presented two weeks ago in its report on the entire program. The major change in the modified proposal is in reducing the number of required upperclass camp. ed. courses from six to five, and reducing the number of required course-programs from four to three. According to the new proposal \except for the disputed question courses, Moratorium which may be taken only in President Martin broke a tie the senior year, the and voted in favor of only upperclass requirements may one such course being be satisfied at any time and in required. any sequence.\ The new major created by Furthermore ''all the Council is a modified comprehensive Education version of the Curricular courses taken prior to the Affairs Committee proposal 19 70-1971 academic year reported in this paper last shall be accepted as fulfilling month. Under the rtew the requirements under the program \a student with the program ... \ advice and consent of a A motion to require that faculty advisor and with the two comp. ed. courses be consent of the Center Dean taken outside a student's center was defeated when Continued en Page 3 Frankel Calls Dick Rootless Opportunist New York Times columnist Max Frankel characterized President Richard Nixon Tuesday night as a political opportunist who \has been for an unusually long time a rootless man with no orientation\ ·toward a consistent stance, throughout his political career. Frankel, peripatetic journalist and political observer for The Times, said that Nixon's presidential decisions represented \the habits and ways of a calculating and thoughtful man--and I think a passionless man.\ Frankel spoke before an overflow audience of about 250 persons in the auditorium of the Social Sciences Building. Frankel diagnosed two limitations that Nix.on faces in his office: the \tug of tradition at work on any President\ and Nixon's awareness that \he's in his own career in the Presidency. Presidents tend to def:uie their own jobs to Sllit their · own tastes and values,\ Frankel added. Frankel, whose talk was tiiled, \Nixon's View of America,\ said that the President's \essential perception\ of the A.merican people rested on his belief that they \fear what they may lose tomorrow even more than what they sense they may lose today.'; The 67-year-old pediatrician, whose book \Baby and Gl1ild Care\ is one of the all-titne best sellers, was, from 1962 to 1967, co-chairman of the Naional Committee fm a Sane Nuclear Policy. For the past three years, he has been co-chairman of the National Conference for New Politics. For his 1967 activities relating to tlte anti-war march on the Penia.gon, Dr. Speck and four other men were charged IJy the federal government with conspiring to counsel young men to evade the draft. April Act}em?du~~= ~~! ~Yntow?~~ady, By 1\11. SALLY VOTTIS be spent instead to aid from 11 A.M. to 1 P.M., and He said that Nixon's perspective is \'white middle-of-the-road, middle-class--halfway between everything. Above all, it is tailored to circumstance.\ Frankel cited the President'~ recent \brief' on school desegregation as an Dr. Spoc:k and three others were convicted of the charge in a widely publicized trial held in Eoston in 1968. He was subsequently acquitted at the appeals court level. He is now speaking throughout the country on behalf of the Civil Liberties Legal Defense Fund, Inc., an organization which raises money io defend conscientioils objectors. Dr. S pock recently published \Decent and Inde,cent: ()ur Personal and The Student Social Action Committee will sponsor a student fast next Tuesday to raise funds for the Vietnam moratorium Committee's Apri115 activities. The fast will take place during all three meals. Any freshman interested in participating may sign up at West College beginning tomorrow. SAGA Foods Incorporated will give the money to the Action Committee which will forward it to MOBE. According to a bulletin published by the Vietnam Moratorium Committee, \the money normally spent for victims of war .. .in Vietnam at 3:30 P.M. at the G.E. gate. and at home. It is very Specifically, the literature important that this money be will deal with the incre(lsed collected assiduously since taxes and the high cost of the the total contributed will be war as we 11 as the one of the most significant Vietnamization process which results of the fast. Efforts is according to SAC President should be made to get Skip Mowry, \both expensive reimbursement from dorms and ineffective.\ or university food 'serices to the Peace FAst Fund.\ The Fast program is under the direction of a committee of trustees headed by Peter Edelman, Associate Director of the Robert F. Kennedy Memorial Foundation. Activities on April 15 will include distribution of literature concerning the war, at the Cofonie Center-and at All those interested in handing out literature should meet next Wednesday morning in Sillman Hall. Anyone interested in volunteering to aid in other aspects of the Moratorium may call Skip Mowry at 374-0797 or Committee co-ordinator Roger Sherman at 346-9269. example of Nixon's policy of \further deferring major social change. It is a model study of Nixon's perspective of America,\ Frankel said. Frankc;:l described Nixon's present Vietnam war policy as \one .of playing the breaks and looking for a gradual way out\ while attempting to Pre du ce the nation's awareness in what is going on by focusing on domestic problems.\ He added that the effect of Nixon's pt>licy is that of \disguising 'our defeat in South Vietnam.\

APRIL 10, 1970 Guest Editor,ial · . . Comp Ed: Now The Pro ram World Federalists ~late PAGE 2 ed\~\~~~''\' . p,.,;,ov because comp g George On PollUtiOn W1th the passage of a Ed is meant .to be creative distinctive and creative. There actions to control env·ironmental pollution. Profe.ssor George will address the group at 8:30, in Hale House following the dinner. slightly revised Comp Ed and innovative it can provide is little distinctive or creative package by 1he Faculty the less restrictive framewor,lc: about a discussion-less lecture A .. dinner meeting of WORLD FEDERALISTS, U.S.A., will be held at Hale House on Thursday, April l6tl1, at 6:30 P.M. Professor Carl George of the Biology Department of Union College will address the group on the subject, A SEA LEVEL PANAMA CANAL: An Example Of The Need For United Nations Action To Control Pollution Of The Seas. Council we move into a new not easily available within the course. era of Comprehensive various departments for the Education. development of intellectually The next steps should be exciting inter-disciplinary scrutiny of the courses courses. In some cases, this themsel11es. Valuable type of course developed sugg_es~ions for this withintheCompEdprogram, e>eammat:10n and an 011erview could later serve as the basis of the problem are found in for f!nriching the offerings of this guest editorial by former the academic departments editor Richard G. Patterson, themselves. Jr., '70. But this potentiality for allowing creative By RICHARD E. PATTERSON inter-disciplin.ary courses to provide new and challenging approaches to knowledge, and its application to the problems of life (such Generally, I believe more intellectually exciting inter-disciplinary courses are needed within the Camp Ed program, a development of more off-campus programs in North America, and a radical restructuring of the presently overly large lecture-type classes in the Options. Blurred Distinctions In the opening statement of the purposes and ebjectives of the Camp Ed program, it is noted that ''Comprehensive Education ... attempts to blur the distinctions between disciplines which tend to fragment intellectual life. The blurring function is one of the most distinctive features of Comprehensive Education.\ The most obvious and successful example of this type of inter-disciplinary course is Comp Ed 70: Literature and Psychology. At this college at least, this is not only inter-disciplinary but also inter-center. One need hardly point out the unfortunate and often strongly felt division between the faculty and students of the two centers to see the distinctive feature of this course which bridges the two centers. application. stressed in Cornp Ed projects especially, must always be in some way inter-disciplinary) is a valuable resource of the program which sould be exploited. Keeping Down Size The program also requires smaller seminar classes in Camp Ed 10 and 11 so as to .allow \the interaction ·of a mature mind with a novitiate.\ At the other end of the spectrum, it, reconunends the addition of 1 two new senior \Disputed Questions\ courses because the Camp Ed board feels that the success of these courses \depends upon keeping class size to thirty students or less.\ From the beginning, Gne serious fault of upperclass Camp Ed courses has been serious course crowding and over-enrollment. I have been enrolled in (consecutively) Comp Ed courses of class enrollment 95, 120, and 70. Such numbers seriously limit the discussion that can take place. These courses become \just another lecture course\ and again Comp Ed is unable to realize its potential to be ~ict---------. :::;; ...... ~ t Qlonror ~~!:,~~ ?tirtt!ii!J ~lit~ ....... ,.,. Publr<hed T uewav and F roday durong the School year bv the Student Body of • Unoon C allege, SchenectoJdy, '\1 Y Nataonal Adverteseng Represenrat•ve Nat1ondl 10 ducatoonal Advertosong Ser~ice, Inc. College Publoshflrs Representat•ve Jf\0 Lox ongton Avenue. N Y C r dotoroal Offoce 0 ld G vrn. U neon C ::>liege r- ubl•c.at aon Off•ce, Whitehurst Pr.ntmg & Bond•ng Co. Inc 41fi41B F ofth Ave Troy, :?35 4450 E:. ntered on the Schenect .. r1\' Po$1 Olf•ce as Second Class Maol Matter Subscroptoon 10 cents a copy $6 a vear dal•vered dnywhere '\ the H G F l)nated Stdtes enry .. em William Ouzer Editors-in-Chief Peter J. Weingold _ ........ _ ..... Managing Editor Lloyd Burns .. _ ............. Business Manager William J. Holleran . . . . . .......... Sports Editor Jody Saslow ................ Photography Editor M. Paul Andrews ............ Contributing Editor Richard Patterson ............ Contributing Editor Neil S. Kramer ................. Editor Emeritus Staff: Robert A. Levine, Danny Shocket, David Uguccioni, Louis Snitkoff, Tony Faga, Doug Wong, M. Grossman, Mike Gottlieb, John Harrigan, Peter Bickerman, Kevin Roberts, Michelle Vottis, Lloyd Bims. Michael Swirsky, Neil Green, Douglas Tosh, George Kaplan, Charles Long, Mark Shugoll, Greg Hamlin, Mike Humber, Dennis Alsofrom. Stu Moss, Bruce Garber, Hank Levine, Dave Conrev Doug Binder. · ~ Because of the Environmental Teach-In which will be held at Union the following Wednesday, April 22nd, this meeting of the WORLD FEDERALISTS will stress the need for U.N. Other WORLD FEDERALISTS objectives include an end to the War in Vietnam, an end to the draft and an end to the MIRV Program. These objectives will also be discussed at the April 16th meeting. Members of the Union College community are invited to attend the meeting to hear Dr. George and to partake in the discussion afterwards. Further information regarding this meeting may be obtained from Professor Joseph Board, Chairman of the Department of Political A better system, some adaptation or modification of which might be useful at Union and could be tried in the Comp Ed program, is to separate the weekly meetings into lectures and seminars. Two or perhaps three hours per week (of the students' four weekly meetings) could be devoted to strict lectures by a professor to the entire class. Then, the class is divided into sections of fifteen to twenty students, each of which would meet one or two hours per week in a seminar session. WRUC Folk To Present Science, who is a Vice • ··President of the Capital MUSIC Show District Chapter of WORLD FEDERALISTS, U.S.A., or from Fred Press (346-9959), Chairman of the Environmental Teach-In Committee of the Schenectady, PYE Club. Experimentation The weekly seminar sessions could discuss. the general lecture topic or different but complimentary topics. In some cases, a class paper on the topic might be given each week by a student. This might mean two or three professors teaching each of these large courses. But this in itself is not new or unusual. Some departments have two professors teaching different sections of the same course presently. In any event it makes for potentiall a much more flexible, creative and rewarding course. In the case of very large Comp Ed courses, some experi- mentation along these lines may be in order. Involving two ore more professors in the same course may facilitate and encGurage inter-disciplinary apprGaches also. Off-Campus Projec1s Finally, Camp Ed should encourage off•campus projects in North America. I a I so wish to stress th is proposal. Project courses seem readily adaptable to this situation, but the creative arts, options, filmmaking, painting and sculpture, music composition, and \Nriting could all involve a term or part of a term of study at the relevant location. The Board has rightly recognized the value of the study abroad programs now under way. Off campus study can be even more widely applicable. This Friday evening at 8 PM, WRUC will present a benefit evening of folk music, with proceeds going to a unique new \Call For Help\ Service in the Capital District. The Grganization, called \Refer Switchboard, Inc.,\ operates 24 hours a day, and provides professional guidance to young people with hassles. They assist in all problems, including pregnancies, bad trips, runaways, and others. Recently, it has embarked on a fund raising drive in order to stay in operation. This Friday, at Old Chapel, a gala folk evening will help defray operating expenses for \Refer Switchboard.\ Beginning at eight o'clock in the Old Chapel, it will feature such area performers as Carl Rosenstock, Steve Rathje, Doug Dickens, The Patterns, Phil Dovi, Ray Andrews, Greg Chudowsky, Bert Baker, and Mother's Own Goodtime Jug Band. An appearance by Gerry Wagner, the controversial Albany State teacher whose dismassal set off recent disturbances at that campus, is expected. Mr. Wagner will read poetry. Pennel Esso Service Nott Street Corner Of Van Vranken ATTENTION SENIORS Caps & Gowns measurements now being taken at the bookstor:e Deadline 5/1/70 Anyone wishing to attend both the dinner and after-dinner discussion must make a reservation. CIVIL ENGINEERS This summer the Peace Corps will begin programs for Civil Engineers in: Kenya Thailand Micronesia Ecuador Honduras Venezuela Afghanistan Iran Morocco Turkey and others. For project descrip- tions see the Peace Corps liaison on campus or: CONTACT: Peace Corps Federal Building Church and Fitzhugh. Rochester, N.Y. 14614 {716)-546-4900, ext 1310 . PAGE: D A Colle in au~ draft-c week' to 5 Wedne Sillima Th( initia growin concer campu the Schrm group, group Cc AJ AI me 1 stu de for 1 year l Stude from living must retun Activi Frida' Ai may will comn the comn Mart stu de comn will appo sumn Be stu de their of st AthiE revie1 Co J will than senic majc therr T take cour be ir requ com the~ ex: appr· T app allov raise requ the twer at tl Pain engi a dar carr add c 0 \En una1 the all envi

0, 1970 trol address in Hale dinner. RLD bjectives War in draft MIRV bjectives at the to to hear in be of Political a Vice Capital WORLD S.A., or f the f the attend er and must ion. for 14614 ext. 1370 PAGE3 • t Draft Counseling Service Se1 A group of 15 Union College students will inaugurate a campus draft-counselling service next week with hours from 2:30 to 5 p.m. Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays in Silliman Hall. The service will be initiated to answer the growing number of questions concerning the draft both on campus and in high schools in the community, Ken Schroeder, organizer of the group, said. He said that the group will act as apprentices to Prof. David Snider, campus d r aft c o u n s e 11 or and coordinator of religious activities, during its beginning weeks. Lotttery? Schroeder said that he expected most of the questions during the spring term to come from seniors conceraed about the implications of the draft lottery and iaterested in possible teaching and other job deferments for next year. .. We will not atteltlpt to make any decisions for a student who has C}1lestions about the draft,\ Schroeder said. \The service will be geared .strictly to u1s'Wering questions and pFoviding information about the draft and the Selective Service System.\ The counsellors received instruction during a day-long session February 28 from Greg Kiersz of the Capital Area Peace Center, and during a later session with Father Jim Murphy, campus Catholic chaplain. Committee Positions Open Applications Due April 24 Applications for membership on student-faculty committees for the 1970-71 academic year are now available in the Student Activities office or from student senators in the living units. The applications must be completed and returned to the Student Activities office by 4:30 Friday afternoon April 24. All interested students may apply. The applications will be processed by the committee on committees of the Student Senate. The committee will send President Martin a list matching students and student-faculty committees. The President will use the list in making appointments over the summer. Below is a list of the student· faculty committees, their duties, and the number of students serving on each: Athletics · The committee reviews, at its discretion, the Camp Ed Altered. By Faculty will be permitted no later than the first term .of his senior year to structure his major around a.n organizing theme.\ The student will have to take the usual thirty· six courses, twelve ofwhich must be in his major. Other college requirements for languages, camp. eds., ·and a \senior the sis and comprehensive examination when appropriate\ will also apply. The Faculty Council also approved a resolution allowing a department to raise the number of courses required for its major above the current ceiling of twenty-three. This was done at the request .of Dean James Palmer in order to allow the engineering departments to adapt more easily to the new comp. ed. program. In addition, new standing committee on \Environmental Studies\ was unanimously approved with the purpose of ·coordinating all courses on the environment. policy pertaining to intramural and intercollegiate athletics, physical education and recreational opportunities. Two students serve on this committee. Campus Development · The committee considers the physical cohdition of the campus and makes recommendations to the Trustee Committee on Buildings and Grounds, and the President for its improvement. Three students serve on this committee. Comprehensive Education Board · The committee is responsible for policy affecting development and operation of the entire program in Comprehensive Education. Two students serve on this Board. Two students also serve on each of these committees: Comp. Ed., Freshman Year, Comp. Ed. Options, Comp. Ed., Junioru Projects, and Camp. Ed. Disputed Questions, These committees deal with specific areas of the Comprehensive Education program. Foreign Study This committee reviews the applications of students who wish to study abroad either in a c allege program or independently. It works to develop new programs of study abroad. Two students serve on this committee. Graduate Study The committee has responsibility for recommendations on courses, programs, and conditions pertaining to graduate study at Union. Two students serve on this committee. THE PEANUT STORE featuring PLANTERS HOT ROASTED PEANUTS and Nutmeats from all ove1 the world. 406 STATE ST. Honorary Degrees and' Special Events - This c -<lJTilllittee recommends to the Trustees candidates for Honorary ·degrees and may help the Pre:sident plan special events. Eiglrt students serve on this committee, Honors • The committee reviews the requirements for :htJnors in the various departOleDts and recommends changes to the Faculty Council. Four students serve on this committee. Liason - This committee senes as an ombudsman. I i has no legislative power l:Jut: makes recommendations. Two students serve on this committee. Lectures and Comerts - This committee assumes resptJllSibility for selecting and arranging programs and for providing hospitality for perfo:mers. Two students serve on this committee. Library - This committee advises the librarian on librey policy and advises the college ad:rnU!istration on the bookstore. Tva. students serve on this committee, Rei igious Acti'\lities This committee advises the 9irector of Religious Activities on the selection of programs and visitors. It discusses the range of religious activities appropriate t<> Union. Three students serve <On this committee. Security and Safety - This com mit tee regululy surveys Security conditions on campus and makes recommendations to the President on policy, program and facilities related to these matters. Three stude-nts serve on this committee. Standing of Studemts · This committee reviews tb.e :records of those students receiving the records of those students receiving less than a satisfactozy term average. Stu den is serving on this committee help review college policies affecting the standing of students: but do not consider individual cases. Three students serve on thi£ committee. Phon~ 372;() 528 P A R:l< PIZZERIA FR{E DELIVERY 1 tali an G1i11 ders Our Sp~cialty Behind Davidson Hall · One Block.frornthc Campus 25 Paik P.l.ace Schenectady, N. Y • APRIL 10, 1970 · Blith·er . ~-~ -- - The YWCA is interested in starting a class next Fall for junior high school girls in folk guitar. If any student is interested in teaching a class and wishes to earn extra money, please leave your name with Dean Sheila Beam, Old Gym Hall. This Sunday the Film Haps will show, at 7 and 9:15, the Marx Brothers in \The Big Store\. The distributor who had originally contracted to supply \A Day at the Races\ for that day (~ ~ was unable to deliver. The fJ.lm will be shown, instead, on May 2nd. Students in tlw all classes are to be reminded of the Housing lottery for permission to live off campus next year. All of next years juniors and seniors stand a good chance of receiving permission but entrance in the lottery is necessary. cv iamonds L--__.:::;;...,_..:__j go straight to the heart on Valentine's Day FROM $150.00 Use your l\laster Charge Card Graubart & Sons (Schenectady's famous diamond shop. for three generations) 166 Jay St. Tlm•t• Union Gracluates in Family

PAG~ 4 Lax Tops Panthers 3 .. 2 Hosts Stevens Tomorrow By MARK SHUGOLL The Garnet lacrosse team jumped out to a 2-0 first period lead yesterday, but then had to struggle to hold on for a 3-2 victory over visiting Middlebury College, in the season opener for both teams. Goals by Doug Duval, Ozzie Lazelere, and Bruce Dugan allowed Union to avenge last year's 8· 2 drub- bing at Middlebury. The Garnet are attempting to rebound from a disappointing 5-7 showing last year. Duval, Lazelere Tally Duval opened the scoring with just over five minutes gone in the game, and Laze le re tallied just 24 seconds later to open up the two-goal bulge. Duval, the team's third leading scorer last spring, intercepted a stray Middlebury pass and had the goalie at his mercy in putting the Garnet out in front. The Panthers cut the lead in half with a goal one minute into the second period. A sparkling defensive play by Kevin Monahan kept the Vermonters from tieing the score moments later. With goalie Ed Greene caught out of the net, Monahan scooped up a rolling Middlebury shot just short of the goal line. Bruce Dugan made the score 3-1 as he connected with just 28 seconds left in the half after a brillant pass by Duval. After a scoreless third period, the visitors pulled to within a goal, scoring at the ten-minute mark of the last period. The Garnet's best opportunity in the half came when a Union player hit the post during a delayed Middlebury penalty. Key Saves Goalie Greene played a typically fine game in the Union nets, making several important saves. The biggest came in the last two minutes of play, as the Garnet netminder stopped Middlebury twice in on point-blank shots. With the visitors trying desperately to net the equalizer, Greene knocked away a dead-on shot from ten feet out with just 36 seconds remammg. The Garnet then easily ran out the last half-minute of play. The Dutchmen host Stevens here tomorrow afternoon at 2:30p.m. Union ousted Stevens 7-6 a year ago. Mets, Dodgers Slwuld Win By HENRY FEIN and BILL HOLLERAN Tuesday, we presented our predictions for the races in the American League. Once again, we will stick out our proverbial necks and hazard a gues at the finish in the National League. And, once again, we welcome dissenting opinion. Eastern Division: New York Chicago Pittsburgh St. Louis Philadelphia Montreal The Mets, whose victory last year must still be considered close to a miracle, are stronger at three key positions this year and won't need as many \breaks\ to win the flag. If the strains of being on top don't prove as great to the Mets as they did to the Cubs, the New Yorkers will repeat. The Cubs have by far and away the best infield in the majors. Their pitching is very good, but catching and outfield can only be termed adequate. If the Mets falter, the Cubs could be first. Likewise, the Pirates cannot be discounte-d. Their hitting is overwhelming, and if their pitching can improve, they too could contend for the flag. The Cardinals have undergone an extensive overhaul over the winter, but the recent loss of Mike Shannon and Steve Carlton's contractual dispute have hurt the Cards' chances of overtaking the division leaders. The Phillies have a good young team and a healthy Chris Short. But Curt Flood will not play, and their inexperience is still too great for the Phils to be a serious threat. The Expos still have a long way to go. Western Division: Los Angeles Cincinnati Atlanta San Francisco Houston San Diego This should be the Dodgers' year, but they will get quite a run for their money from the Reds and the Braves. The Dodgers have a team that resembles the Mets in many ways: youth, a fine infield coupled with a good outfield, and superb pitching. As long as the latter holds up, the Dodgers should be on top. But the fight they will get from the Reds will be brutal. Cincinnati had five men in the top ten in batting last year, and with just a little pitching they would have blown everyone else out of the division. If Gary Nolan can come back and the rest of the staff can do any sort of a decent job, the Reds will overtake the Dodgers. But right now the pitching is too questionable to pick the Reds for first. DIAMANTE'S Enjoy Our Fine Home Cooked Italian food in Our Comfortable Dining Room Opp. The Brownell Gate on NoH Strut Open Daily 10 to 1 A.M. S.undays 5 P.M. to 1 A.M. The Braves have a good team, but Hank Aaron is a year older and Ron Reed will miss a good part of the season. Unless others can take up the slack on the mound, the Braves won't repeat, though their fine hitting and defense should keep them in the ra-ce. The Giants should stay close, but there are better squads in the division. Pitching is a big problem, because after Juan Marichal, what? The rest of the team is good but not great and the perennial bridesmaids will be frustrated once again. With their good pitching and fine defense, the Astros could move up this year if anyone else falters, although they lack power hitting. The Padres are still weak. ITHACA SUMMER REPERTORY THEATRE Four Productions APRI·L 10, 1970 Baseball Team Opens With Questions About Pitc.hi:ng, :Fresh·men A youthful baseball team epens its 1970 season tomorrow, needing pitching help if it is to improve upon last year's 7-3 mark. The batsmen will battle Siena College on Alexander Field, with gametime at 2:30P.M. Coach Art Lawrence will start three freslunen in his lineup tomorrow, having picked eight yearlings for his l 5-man roster. No sophomores made the team. Neidel Era Ends For one of the few times in his lengthy coaching career, mentor Lawrence is short on pitchers, having lost star hurle:rs Bill Neidel and Joe Douglas to graduation last spring. Neidel anchored the staff impressively in 1969, winning four of six outings and compiling a spectacular 0.85 ERA. Douglas will also be missed by the Garnet, as he picked up victories in both his starts last season. This year, however, things are different for the Dutchmen. Junior Larry Berkeley, whose only win in two starts last season was an impressive 2-0 whitewashing of Hamilton, will be Lawrence's key man, probably starting every third game. Junior Kevin Coyne, who pitched in but one game in 1969 will also see extensive action. Both hurlers may be shaky in the early season, but Lawrence feels that as they gain experience, Berkeley and Coyne will develop into top-notch pitchers. Rounding out the staff are yearlings John Siedlecki and Hank Lambert. Lawrence admitted that his pitching is his team's main weakness, commenting, \Our chances depend on the pitching, which will come frem a basically inexperienced staff. But if the pitching holds up, we'll do better than last year.\ Hopefully the Dutchmen will be able to extract enough pitching out of their inexperienced staff to offset their questionable hitting. Last season the Garnet batted less than .215 as a team. Defense, Speed The Garnet, hoVJever, are blessed with ap. airtight defense and good speed on the basepaths. The infield is of the finest quality, featuring two-year veteran Mike McGee at base, freshman prospect Eob Mitchell at second, junior Dale Long at short, and senior Ken Pearce at third. Freshman Bob Bernhardt will also see action in the infield. The outfield is fleet of foot and strong defensively, if light at the bat. Junior Bob MacKenize, a .133 hitter last spring, will move over from centerfield to right, leaving senior Mike Solomon in center and freshman John Quirk in left. Frosh Tom Anacher will also see spot duty. Freshman Rick Arons has nailed down the catching job. His backup man will be Skip Lega, another yearling hopeful. COLLEGE SESSIONS June 8th June 29th July 13th ITHACA COLLEGE ITHACA NY 14850 ~ . l c ' Haro director plant fo1 has bee newly director facilities In a A. MaG alumn place me assist U business RobE director succeed: The were reorgan ope rat recent 1 Mcllwai busines: than 20 I UshE U.S. N retired came t has h College' ( 0· Jin the Com1 y este1 Camp have Treas1 Galds ChaiJ Comn Va from politi1 brotl frater post< will chain his se N meml junio: from We in! Edito that con 1 origir appoi G~ Socia for a instn year soph1 majo New AI the Com1 ;

1970 ns 7-3 will icked six will both en. s last will 9 will , but and the main if their than finest base, at Bob flight g, will Mike Frosh VOL:UME, 99 NO. 49 Usher, MaGill, Welch Shift College Roles Harold L. Usher Jr., maintenance operations director of Union's physical during the greatest period of . plant for the past eight years, construction in Union'.s . has been appointed to the 175-year history. Dc.Hing that newly created post of time the College has director of business and renovated an older facilities operations. dormitory, built two new In a related move, Charles ones, two classroom A. MaGill Jr. '62, director of buildings, a new utilities alumni relations and plant, and a new center for placement, was named to science and engineering, for a assist Usher in the revamped totaJ cost of almost $20 business office of the College. million. Robert A. Welch, assistant MaGill, a 1962 graduate of SCHENECTADY, NEW YORK, APRIL 14, 1970 PRICE TWENTY CENTS -;-\'-.4 Smokey Mail Room Fire director of the physical plant, Union, was a captain in the succeeds Usher as director. Air Force before his return to The twin appointments the C allege in 196 7 to assume were part of a general the post of assistant director Routs Davidson Residents reorganization of business of alumni relations. He ope rations following the became director of alumni recent death of Theodore R. relations and. placement in Mdlwaine '30, who had been 1968. business manager for more Welch, formerly owner of than 20 years. a plumbing, heating and air Usher, a graduate of the conditioning firm in U.S. Naval Academy and a Schenectady, has been retired Navy commander, affJiated with Union since came to Union in 1961. He 1959. He has been assistant has had charge of the director of the physical plant College's physical plant and since 1966. About 250 Davidson House residents were forced from their early morning sleep by a fire of undetermined origin in the north mail room of that building yesterday morning. Investigation into the details of the incident was begun immediately after the Goldston Renamed Chief Of Union Social Committee the Student Senate Committees will be made within the next two weeks. Jim Kadamus, chairman of the Committee on Committees, announced yesterday that Paul Van Camp and Peter J. Weingold have been named to the Treasury Committee and Phil Galdston has been renamed Chairman of the Social Committee. must be approved by the Student Senate. In addition Kadamus said that the rest of Money For Walla·ce Village small blaze was brought under control at 5:29 AM. John Kleinkauf, Director of Security and Safety said last night that conclusive evidence was not yet available as to the origin of the blaze. Kleinkauf said, \We have our theories\ but indicated that it was probable no answer could be found for the cause of the fire. Down to the Depths At approximately 4:50 John Harrigan, '73, noticed the smoke and ventured downstairs from his third floor room to determine its origin. At this point the passage way was filled with so much smoke that Harrigan was unable to proceed down the stairway. He and Bruce Bonafede, '73, then attempted to set off the buildings fire alarm by pulling several local alarn1 boxes and Van Camp, a sophomore from Newark New York, is a political science major and a brother in Sigma Chi fraternity. He will assume the Saturday Clambake Set • post of secretary next fall and will automatically become chairman of the committee in ~ , his senior year. Newly named member-at-large Weingold is a junior biology major pre-med, from Little Neck, New York. Weingold, currently Managing Editor of Concordiensis, 'said that he \does not see any conflict of interests\ originating from his new appointment. Galdston will remain as Social Committee Chairman for a second year and will be instrumental in choosing next year's committee. The sophomore American Studies major is from Great Neck, New York According to Kadamus all the appointments by the Committee on Committees Clams, beer, and musical entertainment will be featured at Sigma Chi's Second Annual Spring Clam bake to be he! d Saturday, April 18. WRUC will broadcast live from the clambake at Sigma Chi beginning at three o'clock. The admission price of $3.00 includes steamed clams, beer, hot dogs, potato salad, and also a beer party Saturday evening featuring live music from 9:00 to I :00. -Charity- The proceeds from the clambake will be donated to the chapter's service project, Wallace Village. Located in Colorado, Wallace Village is a center of treatment and rehabilitation for children Dr. Spack Tonight The Chapel 8:00 with minmal brain damage. These children are not mentally retarded but have suffered specific brain damage which affects specific areas of behavior. In most cases it is hoped that the child will be returned to a regular classroom situation within three to five years. Last year Sigma Chi was able to donate $270 to this project as a result of the clambake. tickets for the clambake may be obtained from any member of Sigma Chi or by calling 346-9582. It is preferred that tickets be purchased in advance since only a limited number will be sold at the door. knocking the buttons off the fire detectors in the ceiling. These efforts failed and the question remains unanswered as to why the Davidson fire alarm was shut off that evening. Hanigan, Bonafede, and another Davidson Resident, Jack Friers, then attempted to rouse their floormates. While Harrigan awakened the third floor, Friers ran to Beta Theta Pi and called the Schenectady Fire Department. At the same time, the ever more pervasive smoke was noticed on the south wing and Davidson Head RA Bill Munne, '70, proceeded to rouse the third floor residents on the south sidee. The noise of his efforts and subsequent running and door slamming aroused the second floor residents of that wing who likewise proceeded from the building. Noise and Confusion The noise and confusion started by efforts on the third floors of each wing sent the message to evacuate through the building taking the place of the non-functioning fire alarm. As the evacuated residents stood, bewildered, outside their dormitory, the Fire Department arrived with two trucks and quickly extinguished the blaze, opened the windows of the \ ounge and cleared the building of most of the acrid smoke. Damage to the mailroom involved the loss to two empty canvas mail sacks and a cardboard box. The affair was reported closed and residents permitted to return to the building officially at 5 : 2 9, according to Fire Continued on Page 5

PAGE 2 Letters to the Editors To the·Editors: While t:lle Fe is .a pervasive degree of student apathy regarding campus entertainment, the fault does not lie solely in one coraer. Recertt years have produced. a number of frustratingly inept concert arrangements, perhaps climaxed by the events oflast Sunday. The promoters of the so-called concert (it was strictly an outside job) seemed more interested in making a fast buck than in presen tin:g a worthwhile show. Luckily, the perfonnance of the Savoy Brown Blues Band prevented a complete musical disaster. I am not denigrating the fine effo:rt& of our Social C ommi ttce, which usually has to work ~gainst overwhelming odds. However, .the College cannot e:xpect students to buy tickets for third-rate promotions. Peter Bickerman '73 To the Editors: Mrs. Perkin's garden now lies fallow. informacl outdoor kaffeeklatsch classes. Please cqn.vey your interests to the Ad Hoc Committee for the Cultivation of Mrs. Perkin's Garden, Rich Kramer '71 Chairman, at 377-9280, or leave word with Mrs. Marra, at the Student Activities Office. Rich Kramer, '71 Ad Hoc Committee for the Cultivation Of Mrs. Perkin's Garden To the Editors: We would like to express our views ·On the nature of the educational system at Union College. We believe that students should have the freedom to choose for themselves the type of education they wish to receive, and that students know best what they them selves need. The requirements for language and Comprehensive Education impinge on this freedom. There fore we believe that these requirements should be abolished and that the c 011 rses should be made optional. We wouid like to point out that students will continue to take the better courses iin the Camp Ed program, and those of lesser quality will cease to exist. This gap could :be filled by courses, created by students wi·th the help of t]Qe faculty, catering to student needs and interests. This, and not required Comp Ed and language courses wouM enable the student to create for lliHJ.self a tn1e \liberal education.\ The pass-fail programs enacted is a step in the right diuection, but H is only a step. 11here is no reason why a student should not be allowed to take aNy or all of his courses under the pass-fail system. Union College, by initiating these proposals, can improve the quality of its undergraduate educatiofl, increase student interest, and work t award a freer university. Cliff Stevens and Pete Gralla, '73 Mrs. Perkin's garden? Where is Mrs. Perkin's garden? This edenic spot lies behing IIale House, adjacent to the south stairs of the Rathskell ar. Art Show and Sale At Old Chapel, A.pril 27 We Il ropose that this I ittle-notice d and less utilized niche be turned to the advantage of the student body. The p rox.im.ity of the \skellar makes it a natural spot for an open-air cafe. Small tables could be provided for couples, and a long table supplied for London Grafica Arts will be presenting a collection of original graphics in an exhibition and sale at Old Chapel, on April 27 from I 0 am-5 pm. This important collection of prints is making a tour of ~-- dur11.n9 t~e School year by the Stu d&nt Body at· Unoon C olliege. Sc henectadv. \J Y f'ol a t 1 o na I Un10n C.::JIIegt> fubl•<at•on OH,ce Wh.;ehuht Pr1nt.ng & Bon<long Co Inc 41f• 418 F ofth Ave Troy ;>3~ 44!>0 Reprasenta1nJe N iltiOndl l nter~d 1n the Schenect.ac1y 1: d..,catoonal Ad'o1er1oson9 Post 011oce as Seconr! Cia~ Servace. Inc. College Maol M.atter Sub•crop11on :70 Pul>-1151'lDrt Representatove 360 cent, a copy $6 a year LeK 1ngton Avenue. NV_ C deltvereod anywh~rt! tn I he 'rJntted Stcttes, Henry G. Fem William Ouzer Editors-in-Chief Peter J. Weingold ............... Managing Editor Lloyd Burns ................ Business Manager l'Villiam J. Holleran. . . . . .......... Sports Editor Jody Saslow ................ Photography Editor ~. Paul Andrews ......... _ .. Contributing Editor Richard Patterson ............ Contributing Editor NeilS. Kramer ................. Editor Emeritus Staff: Robert A. Lelline, Danny Shocket, David Uguccioni, Louis Snitkoff. Tony Faga, Doug Wong, M. Grossman, Mike Gottlieb, John Harrigan, Peter llickerman, Kevin Roberts .. MicheJ/e Vottis, Lloyd llirns. Michael Swi,.sky, Neil Green, Douglas Tvsh, Ceorge Kaplan, Clulrles Long, Mark Shugo/1. Greg f!amJin, Mike Humber, Dennis Also[rom, Stu Moss, Eruce Garber, Hank Lelline, Dave Conrey, Doug l3inder. c alleges and universit1es through the U.S. A. enabling students, faculty, avid and new collectors to view about 500 works seen usually only in major galleries or museums. A wide range of the history of prints is covered from 16th century manuscript pag~s; old masters, such as Rembrandt and Durer; 1 B th, 19th and 20th century examples; modern masters - Picasso, Bra que, Chagall; and a wide range of superb centemporary prints comirlissioned especially by London Arts including editions by Calder, Alechinsky, Vasarely and other comtemporary masters. All the prints are original, thats is, they have been printed directly from the plate or stone that the artist himself has done. All ptints are for sale at prices ranging from $10 to $3,000. The L0ndon Arts representative on hand is well informed and most eager to answer questions about the prints or about graphic arts in general. THE PEANUT STORE featuring PLANTERS HOT ROASTED Pf~NUTS end Nutmeots from all ove1 the world 406 STATE ST. APHIL 14, 1970 James Wilson, Ohio-born lyric tenor and leading performer with the Lake George Opera Festival, will appear in concert in Memorial Chapel, Thursday at 8:30p.m. Accompanying Wilson on piano will be Kurt Saffir, best known locally for his work as conductor at the Lake George Opera Festival. Wilson's performance will feature I ieder, arias and other works by German, American, French, Italian and Japanese composers. The program will begin with three songs by Grancis Hopkinson, one of America's first composers, which were dedicated to George Washington. Wilson will finish with the aria \Avete torto\ from \Gianni Schicchi,\ by Puccini. At present, both Wilson and Saffir are actively engaged in the organization of Ohio Opera, Inc., a resident r~pertory company which will serve a wide area of northeastern Ohio. In addition, Saffir is currently giving a seminar on German romantic I ieder at SUNY Stony Brook. Non-violence Advocate To Speak Here Wed. Mayor Vishner, coordinator of the N.Y. Workshop in Nonviolence will speak in SSOI6 on Wednesday at 2:30pm. Mr. Vishner, beside being \a pothead and man-about-town\ according to Steve Radlauer, is also \'a Minister in the Universal Life Church of California, columnist for WIN and Crawdaddy magazines, professor at Alternate U, producer of rock concerts, and general liason agent between thw world of rock and the world of revolution.\ Ra dlauer, a senior at Union and familiar with Vishner and his ideas said that, \It is impossible to say exactly what course the discussion will take, regardless of its title, but assuredly it will get down to I some basic issues of life, liberty, the pursuit of happiness, and anything else that happens to be on anyone's mind.\ DIAMANTE'S Enjoy Our Fine Home oked Italian food in 0 Comfortable Dining R Opp. Ths Bro-..Nnell Gate on NoH Streltf Open Doily 10 to A.M ay' 5 PM. to 1 A~ ATTENTION SENIORS Caps & Gowns measurements now being taken at the bookstore Deadline 5/1/70 APHIL' I Will Univers please 311 Fo: The meet 1 4:30 C e nte interest submW scrutin~ fellow [ By L And l In ashen holoca like to four covere1 Thi: of the Fl: Special Sche 13 .. so Union report1 fire w early Accon Fire [ the ca unkno at 5 a contrc Th1 hand! Scher smold1 causec Union 200 S1 at 5 morni of th prices the nc Th appro: Schen The Union salted shown this n off by fire, i ex ten frie n Postm be a f them Tht mon marijt durin[ obvio1 Police War I burnt ounce behav the indic< hallu< in tre1

1970 rformer in best George other ! by which with in In German ate d. • I of hfe, t of else be on TE'S Home in 0 ning Roo II Gate ... to A.M to 1 AM taken APHIL 14, 1970 . ; ,_ Bli11HER · ,, , I Will any member of the Universal Free Life Church please call Peter Weingold, 311 Fox. The Writer's Cramp will meet Thursday, Ap1il 16, at 4:30 p.m. in Humanities Center 113. Anyone interested in writing and in submitting his writing to the scrutiny and criticism of fellow craftsmen is welcome. ACTIVITY FORMS FOR THE FRESHMEN RECORD. 1974 HAVE BEEN DISTRIBUTED. IF YOUR ACTIVITY HAS NOT RECEIVED ONE AND WISHES TO BE REPRESENTED IN THE FRESHMEN RECORD, PLEASE LEAVE THE NAME OF THE ACTIVITY AND ITS PRESIDENT IN THE RECORD MAIL BOX IN THE STUDENT ACTIVITIES OFFICE BY APRIL 17. PAGE3 ''M* A* S* H'': Priceless And Hilarinus War Venture By MIKE MESEROLE The first thing one notices at the opening of \M*A*S*H currently filling the house at the HeHman Theatre in Albany, is the helicopters; not the menacing gunships of Vietnam that cruise into the living room with the everting news, but the field-to-operating-room choppers of the Mobile Army Surgical Hospital in the Korean War. More pronounced than the helicopters, however, are the bloodied bodies on board, and it is from here that the movie takes off, gently serenaded by the strains of \Suicide Is Painless.\ From the battlefield, the shot-up soldiers are airlifted to M.A.S.H. Unit 4077 whlch might as well be in another WGrld. Not exactly General Hospital, U.S.A., this place has all the characteristics aad personalities of an insane asylum - only the staff is not insane, they just act crazy to keep frorn going nuts. The doctors and nurses stationed there are faced with the Herculean task of defeatirtg Death hourly; patching up young men who didn't really wants to fight in the first place, and don't want to die either. This is a staggering situation and one that would certainly drive a whole Medical Corps raving mad if the tensioa found no relief. Consider the tension relieved in \M* A *S*H,\ with the means of release making for one of the funniest and most rollicking ventures in to the realm of war that the screen has seen. Under the command of Lt. Col. H.B. Blake, and Blake's right hand man Radar, M.A.S.H. is a free and easy camp. Enter crack surgeons Hawkeye Pierce (Donald Sutherland), Duke Forrest (Tom Skerritt), and \Chest Man\ Trapper Macintyre (Elliott Gould), and the atmosphere turns into one of uninterrupted madness. Davidson Fire: ••Assorted\ Views To say that this movie is irreverent is grossly understating the premise of the film. Death, the real enemy, and· Religion, really take it on the chin. Although the bl cod-letting in the operating room borders on the chaotic, the doctors do know what they are doing and if the patient dies, well, that's life- there is no time to make a deal about it. By LOUIS S. SNITKOFF And THOMAS MORANTE In the charred, gutted, ashen ruins of yesterday's holocaust in Davidson, we'd like to showhowNewYork's four \big\ newspapers covered the fire. This appeared on page 97 of the New York Times: Flash Fire At College Special To The New Yorl< Times Schenectady, April 13--Sources deep within the Union College mail room reported no injuries in a flash fire which ravaged the room early yesterday morning. According to a Schenectady Fire Department spokesman, the cause of the fire is still unknown. The fire, reported at 5 a.m. was brought under control at 5:15. The Wall Street Journal handled it differently: Schenectady, April 13-A smoldering, smoky fire which caused light damage to a Union College mailroom, sent 200 students into the streets at 5 o'clock . yesterday morning. Immediate effects of the blaze on exchange prices will not be known until the noon ticker. The \hometown\ approach was evident in the Schenectady Gazette: Those hippie radicals at Union College have finally salted their own wounds, as shown by a fire on campus this morning, reportedly set off by a Union student. The fire, in a mailroom, caused extensive damage and a friendly Schenectady Postman hinted there would be a federal investigation into the mailroom fire. The odor of smoke, but more specifically, of marijuana, filled the dorm during the blaze. It was obvious to a veteran of the Police Force and of World War I, that one of the letters burnt in the fire contained an ounce of marijuana. The behavior of two firemen on the scene of the blaze indica ted that the men were hallucinating. An officer told intrepid Gazette reporter, Scoop Press, \It must be Acapucalo Gold.\ One fireman was quoted as saying, \It was so beautiful, I mean the kids, the smoke, the flames, oh wow, I just freaked right out.\ His wife was then quoted as saying, \I'm taking my husband to get a haircut this afternoon, and if he gives me any of this 'come on baby' stuff, I'll crack his skull.\ A college official said that the blaze was due to faulty wiring, but sources close to the Pentagon believe it was either a Communist plot, Abbie Hoffman, the S.D.S., the Black Panthers, B'nai Brith, or Hadassah. Vatican sources were quoted as saying that the fire was, \An act of God,\ and that the Pope would make a statement later in the week, as soon as he returns from his three week fling in Sweden. ITHACA ! ~ ~ = SUMMER REPERTORY THEATRE Four Productions ,/ ·' Many Feared Dead In Blaze At Union Schenectady, April l3 ,--An early morning fire ripped through the peaceful, slumbering campus of Union College yesterday devastating two new, multi-million dollar domitories, given to the C allege 1-,y Chatsworth Osborn Jr., son of the famous oil magnate Chasten Sandborn Osborn. The colLege, noted for its high academic standing, is located in the heart of upstate New York's most dynamic city, Schenectady. Union's size promotes a feeling of warmth between the male Union student body and the members · of the opposite sex, from nearby womens' colleges. ~ .:3 ~ ·- ~ ~ -t:: G5 \ I \ I Write Ithaca College for Summer Session Pictoral Rtwiew ~vmlru~www~ww~~~~~Aw~~~Mh~~~JAn~~~~~~~•IUW~WMW To escape the flaming inferno, students had to fight their way through the smoldering ruins of the once beautiful Davidson Lounge, and many crawled to a breathless halt on the plush, fertile grass in front of the dormitmy. Extensive damage was blamed on the Fire Department's late arrival. According to a department spokesma.n, the delay was attributed to three factos: first, the fire alarm system at Union failed to go off; second the firemen had never heard of Uniorl College; and third, the firemen had difficulty in arousing Nelly, the horse who . has u pll ed the firewagons since 1 f)67, when the fire company had to sell its trucks to cover the losses of the 1966 Fireman's Picnic. COLLEGE \-. SESSIONS June 8th June 29th July 13th ITHACA COLLEGE ITHACA NY 14850 Nothing is sacred, not even the Last Supper. The religious Continued on Page 4 ~ Student t· airfares \ !to Europe start at $120 Icelandic has the greatest travel bargain ever for stu· dents .•. our brand new $12.0* one-way fare to Luxembourg in the heart of Europe. If you're travelling to or from your studies at a fully accredited college or university, and are 31 years old or under, you qualify for this outstanding rate. It's an individual fare, not a charter or group; you fly whenever you want, and can stay up to a year. Inter· ested? Qualified? Also, if you are thinking of Europe but not for study, we've got the lowest air fares. Call your travel agent or write for Student Fare Folder CN. Icelandic Airlines, 630 Fifth Ave. (Rockefeller Center) New York, N.Y. 10020. *Slightly higher in season. I ICELANDIC AIRifllls ; ~ j,lj}j.!,_1}!))Jj peak :STILL iLOWEST 'AIRFARES I TO EUROPE I of any scheduled airline.

APRIL14, 1970 The Softball Season Opens Amidst Great Expectations By ACE As the varsity baseball team takes shape in the long round shadow of longtime coach Art Lawrence, athletes and coaches of less formidable conditioning are giving up tobacco for the rigors of softball. Respected bullpen veteran Roy Wiese of the Tax Committee doubles as Softball Commissioner .agin this year. Wiese, sometime shortstop, had no predictions for the season starting soon .as he snickered away a practice between nine ringers from Beta and a hapless bunch from Davidson. Roy reported no game shaking scandals in the off season and said he thought betting would be no heavier than usual. It is rumored that .the Tax Committee intends to support a Spring Concert with the ten percent it ta.kes off the top. Yesterday the soft ground in front of Richmond House did not discourage the always avid ball players of Beta Theta Pi. These warriors, kept By M. PAUL ANDREWS Nobody likes the draft. At best it is tolerated as a necessary evil. Even the Young Americans for Freedom, a group not noted for progressive ideals, has advocated abolishing the draft for a volun.teer army. Richard Nixon has foreseen \the day when the draft can be phased out of American life,\ but most under- graduates would sooner take his word on a used car. This column, which will appear weel<ly or as often as needed, in Concordiensis, is part of an effort by a group of 15 Union students to provide the campus with extensive draft-counseling service. Questions for the column can be submitted through the Concordy m a i I box in the Student Activities Office, Old Gym Hall. This column is an informatfonal service only. Questions will be dealt witn factually; the purpose is to make clear the rights of the individual. The most important tool the draft registrant has in dealing with the Selective Service System is his right to in condition by off season turtling leag11es here and in Bogota look to this observer, as favorites. Psi U will probabl·y be a dis appointment this year. That traditionally ,close-lmit group is laced with proty'pe stoop ball players whG can~t make the transition to tbe long straight base paths of Alexander Field. The Lenox Roaders will probably follow the lead of Phi Ep as long as they manage to keep their earned run average below the house cumulative index. Big question marl< this season is the faculty team always an interesting if not instructive team to watch. Their record has been mediocre to good in the past couple years. last season they eekecl out a win o\ler a I ethargic RA contingent as their high water marl<. This time around, though, the team must do without that immortal Lamont House lothario, hurler Dick Sine. The former news director, as formidable on the mound as he was in prose, has mo\led on to greener pastures and a personal appearance and appeal when he is classified by his board. A registrant is considered classified by his board when he receives SSS Form 110 (the wallet-size \draft card\) whether he receives the same classification he he! f before or whether he is given a new classification. Whenever he is classified the registrant has two rights: a personal appearance before his local board and an appeal to his state appeal board. The request for a personal appearance must come before the appeal; if the registrant appeals his classification first, he is automatically assumed to have waived his right of personal appearance. The registrant has 30 days after the mailing date listed on his notice of classifi~ation to request in writing a personal appearance. The request does not have to be in any particular form; \I request a personal appearance,\ the registrant's number, signature ami the date are all that are needed, but it is better for the registrant to explain vvhy he thinks his classification should be changed. After the personal appearance the board will higher mounds in the midwest. Assistant Dean of Students Richard Lucas may have to take the place of the departed underhander. If Math professor Bick decides to come out, the nine could have a winner. The changing nature of floor affiliation casts doubt upon which independent team will emerge supreme. The 'Davidson Fells' a group of stars from south section Davidson wiH not be fielding a team this year. This group, which had an overall record of 9-1 last season lost key pi ayers to London and Vassar. The absence of this dominating force leaves the field wide open. With so much freshman talent disenfranchised by the absence of a freshmen or N team it looks like the class of '7 3 will score their first victory with a first in intramural softball. Anyone interested in officiating at these spectacles of sport is urged to contact Roy Wiese on second floor Richmond or John Brown, third Davidson north. mail a new classification card to the registrant. The new card may list the new status the registrant wanted, or it may give him back the same status he held before his personal appearance. In any case, if the registrant does not received the classification he desired he again has 30 days to appeal his classification to his state appeal board. Again, all that is required is a letter to his local board stating, \I request an appeal,\ with his number, signature and the date; but again it would help to elaborate. The state appeal board will vote on whether to give the registrant the classification he wants, and he will receive a new draft card through the mail. In most cases appeal-board votes are unanimous. If they are not, the registrant can make a Presidential appeal; but such cases are few. If the appeal-board vote is unanimous, the registrant still can ask the state board to reconsider its decision or he can attempt to obtain a Presidential appeal through various special agents. But such cases are special ones and are too involved to detail here. The point which should be emphasized for most PAGE fi :f·I·RiEUI . I II Continued from page 1 Department spokesmen. These bare outlines of the course of the blaze I leave many questions unanswered, according to Security Director Kleinkauf. Foremost among these is the failure of the fire alarm system to be operating at this crucial mornent. Davidson residents are frequently plagued by the ringing of iliese alarms but Resident Advisers are instructed to re-set the system after turning off the annoying, meaningless warning. There is no record of the alarm being turned off following a re-setting which occurred last Monday. Did Alarm Go Off? Some residents, when questioned, expressed the belief that if the alarm had gone off, most hearing it would have regarded it as a false alarm and fallen back to sleep. As it was, the banging and spreading of the alarm by word of mouth probably evacuated more residents that the official system would have. The residents believing this pointed further to the complications of having to shout instructions or verification over the rather loud and largely disregarded clamoring of the alarm bells. registrants the two personal appeal. is that they have basic rights of appearance and Even if he has no convincing grounds for different classification the registrant has the right to personal appearance and appeal. Often it is important for the registrant to go through these procedures. simply for the sake of gaining valuable time during which his circumstances may change. At least three to six months, and sometimes a year or more pass before the appeals process can be carried through. If every registrant requested a personal appearance and appeal eve1y time he was classified the cumbersome bureaucracy of the Selective Service System would crumble. The registrant especially should make use of his rights if he expects to teach the year following his graduation. He can be reclassified an<l inducted during the summe1: after graduation while he is forced to wait for the fa]! school term to begin before he can begin teaching and qualify for a II-A occupational deferment. Ifhe uses his right to personal appearance and appeal, There remains som·! question as to who first noticed the fire. Th~ investigation continuin~. today should provide ar answer as to whether Pinkerton guard first noticeC: the blaze. The problem witr this themy is that ever thGugll the guard was on th< scene the official FirE Department report states thai a box alarm was turned ir and recorded at 5:03 Harrigan reports that he saw the guard enter the dormitof) after 'he and Friers had begur pulling alarms and Friers hac left for Beta. The guard din check out the alarm systerr: to see if any of the detecton; had gone, but none had. When the air was finall} cleared residents were surprised at the amount a:· smoke such a small amount of material has managed to produce. Kleinkauf explaineC' the phenomena as being caused by the heavy thick canvas bags which wen: destroyed by the fire. He said that such material burn!> slowly and evenly throwinf; off a great deal of smoke. Aside from slight burns on the wall the mail room anci mail boxes were undamagec~ and available for use in the distribution of yesterday's mail. however, he can in effect stall for time until he begins teaching and has solid grounds for making a request for II-A classification. Even if he has exhausted his two basic rights by the time he begins teaching, the registrant can write his local board and request a reopening of his file, which the board may or may not grant him. This first column is typically general. The appeals process is too involved to deal with adequately here. Mainly the .purpose of the column is to inform the individual of his general rights; from that. point he can consult the campus draft counseling service or printed sources for further information. Each registrant's case is different· no matter how simple his cas~ may appear to be the registrant should always. consult a counselor before dealing with or even corresponding with his draft board. Remember: if you have questions about your owr case or the draft in general leave them in the Concordy mailbox or consult thE camp us counseling service from 3:30 to 5 p.m Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays in Silliman Hall.

PA.GE 6 APRIL 14, 1970 Brown Reported In Line For Coach Job At u~ of Rochester Diamond Nine Opens With Decisive Victory Over Fumbling Siena By BILL HOLLERAN According to a rumor which is currently sweeping the campus, Coach Gary Brown has been offered a lucrative head baseball and soccer coaching job with the University of Rochester. Whether he will accept or not remaiHs to be seen. At press time last nig]Jt, no one knew exactly what would happen. Coach Brown was unavailable for comment at his College residence, and all anyone kHew was that Brown had definitely been offered the job by Rochester. To clear things up, this reporter called the Rochester Democrat-Chronicle, and was told that Brown's name was one of seven or eight on the U. of R.'s list. The Democrat-Chronicle reported that Rochester had said, \No Comment\ when asked if Brown was a front-runner for the post. The Democrat-Chronicle speculated that Brown's name was being taken more seriously than others only SCHLOCK Coach Art Lawrence is desperately in need of a baseball manager and team statistician. Hopefuls for this thankless but rewarding job are requested to contact Coach Lawrence at his office in Alumni Gym as soon as possible. The Hockey Club will meet tommrow night at 7:00 at Psi Upsilon to elect new officers. because Bl'own attended the U. of R. after graduating from Union in 1965. Brown coached freshmen basketball and freshmen soccer for the Yellowjackets before earning his Masters degree in Education and returning to Schenectady in I Y6 7. As an undergraduate at Union, Brown was a standout athlete and became the first and so far the only nine-letter man in the College's history. Brown earned his Block U three times each in baseball, soccer, and basketball. A star hurler for the Garnet baseball team, Brown pitched in Yankee Stadium in 1965, his senior year-the year the Dutchmen went to the NCAA Atlantic Regional Baseball ?layoffs. The 27-year old mentor CUITen tly coaches soccer and kesh1nen lacrosse for Union. While the Rochester paper wa·s quite non-committal ab0ut the whole affair, the Schenectady Gazette stated Hatly that the rumor seems to be definite, that there is \something positive,\ and that Brown probably will get the job. Stick men :Easily Crush Hapless Sl:e,•ens Tech By MARK SHUGOLL A thirtceen goal scoring outburst allowed the Union lacrosse team to bury Stevens Tech on Saturday. 13- I. Wayne Christie and Bruce Dugan led the Garnet barrage, scoring three times each, while Mark Sanderson tallied twice. Dugan opened the scoring after only 36 seconds of play, in Union's two-goal first period. The Dutchmen added four more in each of the middle two periods, and three in the final session. Stevens scored in the first period after a stray Union pass rolled in front of the net and was fired home by Herrick Jembo. Doug Duval, Norm Stavin, Ron Wall, Tom Sleckman, and Ned Dukehart also tallied for the Garnet, with a goal each. In winning their second game in as many starts, the Dutchmen outshot the visitors from New Jersey, 57-CJ. Stevens dropped its &ewnd straight game. Defense Stingy As against Middlebury earlier in the week, the Garnet defense thoroughly stymied its opponent. Pup Gould, Kevin Monahan, and Mike Peng constantly broke up Stevens rushes, and kept the baH away from Ed Green in the Union nets. Goalie Green was forced to make only two saves, while his Stevens counterpart, Bob Eeneit, made 21 stops. The stingy Garnet defenders have allowed but three goals in two games. Union takes its 2-0 record to Geneva, New York next Saturday, when it faces perennial lacrosse power Hobart. Links, Netmen Open At Home The Gamet baseball tean1, capitalizing on the clownish antics of Siena's pitchers and fielders, slanuned II hits en route to an easy 17-8 opening day win over the Indians Saturday afternoon on Alexander Field. Slapstick Fielding The Indians were Union's best friends both on the mound and in the field, as Siena's pitching passed 15 Garnet batters and struck out only two. The Indian defense was equally laughable, committing six errors in the field. Dutchmen starter Larry Berkeley struggled five innings to record the win, fanning nine Indian batters and walking five in the process. Berkeley was touched up for six runs in his five innings of work, although his teammates did not help matters in Hlaking four fie! ding miscues. Mitchell Socks Homer One of the Garnet's II hits was a first-inning solo homer by freshman second baseman Bob Mitchell. Mitchell jumped on the first offering by the Siena hurler and blasted the pitch into the left-centerfield bushes. Siena retaliated in their half of the second inning, pushing across two tallies to grab the lead, 2-1. The Garnet, however, turned the contest into a rout in the last of the third, scoring eight runs. Mike McGee's bases-loaded triple was the key blast as the Dutchmen moved in front, !0-2. Four more tallies in the bottom of the fourth inning gave the batsmen an astronomical 13-2 lead. jletter, Boston First The varsity tennis and gold teams will open their spring seasons this Friday afternoon at home, with the linksters meeting New Paltz and the racket squad facing Hobart. Siena flurried for four runs in their half of the fifth and Graubart & Sons may run small ads, but they have big values. Editor's Note: The following is a reply to Concordiensis' baseball predictions which appeared in I ast week's issues. We are happy to see that someone has accepted our invitation to write in expressing differing opinions, and we hope that more letters of the same sort Will be forthcoming. Messers. Holleran and Fein: You are grossly misinformed about the AI East. Quite simply, this is Boston's year. Their one bugaboo-pitching - is now strong enough to carry them to the World Series, especially when you consider what's behind the mound. Baseball's greatest outfield, and infield with three All Stars and a pretty slick rookie at third, an up-and-coming catcher all make this the team to beat in the AL. As far as the rest goes, the Sox will sock Minnesota and then meet Cincinnati in the World Series. The Reds' victim ir, the NL will be the Cubs. I won't predict the Series' winner now, but I will say watch Gary Peters, Reggie Smith, George Scott, and' Luis Alvarado. Their super seasons will put Boston into the World Series. Sock it to 'em, Red Sox' Faithfully yoti r~. George Bain Pennel Esso Service Nott Street Corner Of Van Vra.nke11 Schenectady's famous d•amond shop, for three generat1onsl I 66 Jov St Three Uman Graduates 1n Fam1ly. LUIGI'S RESTAURANT SPECIALIZING IN Italian - American Fqod 1125 BARRETT ST. Schenectady Dl b-9744 Enjoy S'zzl \g S+eaks a\d Chops added single tallies in the sixth and ninth innings, b1llt by that .time no one was taking the game seriously anyway. Senior right fielder Bob MacKenzie joined Mitchell and McGee in the limelight as one of the Garnet's hitting stars, as he coUected five total bases on two doubles and a singl,e. It was a promising start for MacKenzie, who batted only .133 last season. The batsmen will be on the road for their second contest of the spring, traveling to Drew University to battle the Rangers on Friday afternoon. SENIORS IIAATH: Liberia, Ghana, The Gambia, Uganda, Malaysia, Micronesia, Philippines, Sierra Leone CHEMISTRY: Ghana, Malaysia, Sierra Leone, Eastern Caribbean, Honduras BIOLOGY: Thailand, Tonga, Guatemala, Kenya, Chile, Peru, Guyana, Honduras, Malaysia, Korea, Uganda, Ghana, The Gambia PHYSICS: Ghana, Korea, Uganda, Malaysia, Philippines, British Honduras, Eastern Caribbean PEACE CORPS 1970 Programs begin this summer. See the Peace Corps liaison on campus or: CONTACT: Peace Corps Federal Building Church and Fitzhugh Rochester, N.Y. 14614 (716)-5~6-4900, ext. 1370 . ) Founded at Union College 1877 VOLUJ!tE, 99 f\10. 50 SCHENECTADY,NE\IV YORK, APRIL17, 1970 Senate Ol{avs Bl Puts OffW ein~ol~ . At its rneetiHg Tuesday In the first year mght; the Student Senate operation, the Senate W( unammously voted to table elect two members of the motion for. approval of committee to join the Committee on Vice-President and Committee's nominations of member elected by Paul Van Camp and Peter J. student body for two y( Weingold to sit on the In the second and Stu.dent Tax Committee. The successive years, only action was the result of an member would be electe( alternate proposal introduced the Senate. The rest of by Gerry Hyman, a Senator committee would be from Davidson House. Vice-President the men Senator Hyman stated _that serving the s~cond yea many students actiVely this term and the pe involved with campus newly ele~ted by the stu' activities ~ave found the Tax body for a two-year term. Committe~ to be This proposal is non-representative of the amendment to the Stu en tire student body. To Senate Constitution an ' alleviate this grave situation, such will be conside;ed a Mr.. Hyman proposed that the next two Senate meeting5 enttre student bo~y elect a R e g a r d in g o t member at large to serve two Committee on Commi Optimistic About Peace, years on the Tax Committee. nominations, the SE During his first year, this overwhelmingly approvec Spock Outlines Means By M. PAUL ANDREWS Well-known pediatrician and political activist Dr. Benjamin Spock Tuesday night .stressed personal initiative and local campaigning as means of capitalizing on \an c opportunity that should not be missed to pull the rug from under Richard Nixon and his supporters in Congress\ in Congressional elections later this year. \You are lucky to have Professor (Ed) Fox (of R.P.I.) in your own district to provide such .clear-cut opposition on the war to 'l hawk Sam Stratton,\ Dr. Spack told a standmg-room- only crowd of 1500 in Memorial Chapel. Disastrous War Spock devoted much of his talk to describing r American involvement in the Vietnam War which he said is \immoral illegal as well as disastrous to the well-being of c the United States both internally and domestically.\ He also elaborated on \the •t whole array of dissent, from strictly legal and proper to violent,\ the latter to which he said he was opposed •t \because violence usually helps those against whom violence is used.\ Spock spoke to an obviously partisan and enthusiastic audience ranging from the young to the old. Immediately after his speech he was approached at the lectern by a student who asked him to sign a petition i in favor of the Stein bill recently tabled by the state legislature. The bill prohibits a new York State citizen from serving in a combat zone where no state of war has been dec! are d by Congress. Spock Signs Spack signed the petition amid applause and announced: \Anybody who doesn't sign that I want to see after class.\ Open hearings were held Tuesday on the bill, which is similar to one Continued on Page 3 member would serve as nomination of William Q, secretary of the Committee. a junior, to serve as chail In his second year, this of the Union Col member would take over as Elections Commission fo: Committee Chairman. year. Serving with Mr. C The proposal stipulates on the Commission will that the Student Senate elect two students (not necessarily Senators) to sit with the member at large and the Student Senate Vice-President on the Tal>. Committee. Election C Petitions Gati Appointed Director Elections Commisf William Ouzer annm today that three studen1 announced their cand for student body offices Conilllunist Studies Outlin~ A new interdepartmental major program resulting from w~despread student interest and dealing with Comparative Communist Studies will begin operations in the fall under the direction of Dr. Charles Gati, associate professor of political science. Students who wish to major in this area will be required to take 13 of the 34 courses currently given and regarded as relevant to the subject, and will be involved in two senior project courses. Any students who are interested in the program can consult with Prof. Gati. At present, the program will focus on the Soviet Union, China, and Eastern Europe, with the comprehensive planned approach involving an intergration of history, political science, sociology, anthropology, and economicss. In addition majors will also take three advanced courses in the Russian or Chinese languages. Prof. Gati believes that several new courses will be added in the near future, perhaps dealing with such topics as Russian literature and Soviet-style economics. Other future plans include the addition of more courses comparing various communist systems, and the institution of a language study program abroad. It was also noted by Prof. Gati that such an interdepartmental program is able to offer a much more comprehensive picture than was available under any of the traditional major disciplines.

PAGE 2 APRIL17, 1970 APRIL 17 PYE In just a few months, the campaign ;to save the environment has become respectable. In fact, it is virtually .. Establishment.\ H is a safe issue; no one wants to be counted in favor of pollution. Even the Nixon Administration has imP'licitly giyen its support. Yet the protection of the environment is a vitally important matter. It urgency is surpassed only by the efforts to end our disaster in Vietnam. - Blither, Blither This campus will join hundreds of others across the nation next week as Earth Day activities will dramatize the problems of poisoning our limited environmental resources. It is awfully easy to pay lip service to any issue, but it is especially easy in this case,. as we outlined above. Going to the teach-in activities is fine, if nothing else, la·rge crowds at Earth Day may convince the Nixon Administration that there is a quite vocal minority that wants a re-ordering of our national priorities. A representative from the Peace Corps will be on campus, Monday and Tuesday, May 11 and I 2, 1970. He will be interviewing interested students in the Placement Office, Wells House from 1:00 P.M. to 4:00 P.M. on Tuesday, April 12. Any one who is interested in having an intervi~w should sign up in the Placement Office before that date. Letter There will be an Introductory Lecture in Transcendental Meditation at 8:00 P.M. on Monday, April 20 in SS 115. There will be a STUDENT BODY MEETING to discuss and decide upon action regarding: The abolition of Comp Ed and language requirements and making them optional, Extension of Pass-Fail, anything else concerning education here you wish to bling up. The meeting will be held Tuesday April 21, at 4:30 in Library Plaza (weather permitting), otherwise, SS 115. The next session of the Student-Faculty Bridge Club will be held on April 28 at the Hale House Faculty Lounge at 8:00 p.m. All those interested in participating are welcome. J ByDAI Those involved moveme1 October k spring rit gather tht Vietname: down Stl York Cit: But if the enthusiasm dies after next week's activities, then all will have been in vain. The enthusiasm of Earth Day, and the myriad activities of the PYE Clubs across the nation must be continued and expanded in the months .ahead. This nation is just beginning two wake up to the massive J>rO blems we have created with our unlimited abuse of the environment. But no amount of work by PYE Clubs can replace the massive amounts of cold, hard cash that money will be appropriated by the government until our monstrous escapade in Vietnam is ended. The Johnson Administration's attempt to combine guns and butter was a failure; the Nixon Administration seems unwilling to spend money on anything but guns. Wants Better Convos The results of tlie last tournament held on April 7 were as Follows: 1. Bnm, dage and Love 2. Stern and Legregni Saturday. great evet in adva widesprea year's rna a be-in wl a snows people w this get-toge tl~ Until the war is ended, the activities of PYE may grow more and more fru~trating as such demonstrations as Earth Day are met with a paucity of action by the Nixon Administration. But it is just this response which demands a redoubling of efforts. Just as Lyndon Johnson was defeated when his false statements on the war were confronted by Eugene McCarthy. So Richard Nixon may be defeated if his policies on the e:nvironment are shown to be no more than lip service. To the Editors: The calibre of the people that have come to Union to speak in this past year has been excellent, but not always interesting. The lecturers have too often said whay many of us already feel and/or want to hear. Senator McGovern told us we should leave Vietnam, Gunnar Myrdal told us that racism has been here for a long time and is partly a matter .of ignorance, and Max Frankel told us that President Nixon Downtown March~ Speech To Open PYE Earth Day The Schenectady PYE Club has scheduled a full slate of events for the observance of Earth Day, beginning with a march through downtown Schenectady on Tuesday, April 21. The theme of the march is both symbolic and practical since the marchers will be picking up litter found along the route. Dr. Carl George, Union biology professor will address a rally at 12:30 pm in Library Plaza, after which the marchers will parade down Union Street, across Erie Boulevard, and up State Street to Veterans' Parle- Teach-In Schenectady's part in the national observance of Earth Day on April 22, will center around a teach-in at Union consisting of three seminars during the day, exhibits, and an evening convocation. The first seminar will be held at I 0:30 a.m. in Library Plaza on the topic \Civil Action and the Private Citizen.\ Included in the panel will be Paul Ammerman of the Pure Waters Authority of New York State; Prof. Joseph Board, Chairman of the Political Science Department; Gardner Ketchum, the Chairman of the Mechanical Engineering Department; and Paul Delfin, the PYE Club's Legal Research Committee Chainnan. The second seminar will be held at I p.m. in Old Gym Hall, on \Pollution and Human Physiology.\ Participants in the discussion will be Dr. William l{jnter, Prof. of Physiology at Upstate Medical Coliege; Prof. VanVranken Des Forges of the Civil Engineering Department; Thaddius M au r ow s k i , M.D., an epidemiologist for the New York State Department of Health; and Professor William Martin, Prof. of Chemistry at Union. Government Programs The 3 :00 p.m. seminar to be held in Library Plaza, deals with Government Programs and Planning. Speakers will include Henry Williams of the Office of Planning Cooperation of New York State; Arthur Hanley of the North East Environmental Council and Pure Waters Authority; Edward Miser of the United States Corps of Eng.i11eers; and Ann Maynard of tile New York State Health DeP'artmen t. At 8:00pm, C.C. Johnson will speak at a convocationin the Unitarian Church on Wendell Avenue. Mr. Johnson is the Administrator of the Environmental Health Service ~f fhe Health, Education, and _Welfare Department, and ;s also the highest ranking black man in the administration. federal Effort Needed The PYE Club has been trying to emphasize the necessity of getting as many groups as possible from the community at large involved in the anti-pollution campaign. It is hoped that a joint effort between students and the people of Schenectady will result in a large turn-out for the planned march and seminars. Only through a successful action of this type can the importance of anti-pollution measures be demonstrated. Pennel Esso Servi(e N ott Street Corner 01 Van Vranke11 was mainly interested in Middle America. In the future, the College should seek provocative orators who will say something inspiring or even disgusting, but at least say something new and different. TI1ere are enough things which I don't know or have not thought about so that I do not have to hear a very distingnguished person tell me about commonly known matters. As a constructive suggestion, I feel that the C allege's Convocation Committee should invite Supreme Court Justice William 0. Douglas to Union. Presently, he is under attack by the Congress and in addition to that his membership on the nation's highest court duling such unusual and controversial times should be more than enough reason to believe that he migl1t have something to say that will give us something to talk about. Glenn Grossman '71 3. Lavin and Fishman The Department of Modern Languages is now inviting .students to participate in its 1970 winter-term program of Comprehensive Education in Colombia. Interested students should see Mrs. Astiz for prelimainary, tentative, application forms. All applications should be in by May 4. On Tuesday, April 21, at II: 30 a.m. in Hum. 115 there will be a panel discussion and slides about the trip to Bobota this past Winter term. A representati~e from the UNITED STATES COAST GUARD will be in the Placement Office, Wells House, on Timrsday, April 23, 1970 to talk to seniors and graduate students on the 1 Coast Guard Reserve Candidate School Program. He will be in the office from 10:00 A.M. until 2:00P.M. If interested, stop in the Placement Office during these hours. The mention recount : them, th 1968. An and I leaving m get furthc the obje closer platform. move all replied, mot iva marcher said, motivatic three of c our walk It app rnovemer . ( soloists B e t t , Schenec range o with a PCW May 5th-10th ATTENTIOi\ SENIORS French century Pro selecti01 Bach's l 29 ,\ tVI prelude: Fugue r;, Handel End ric Organ \Adag Caps & Gowns measuremenL.; now being taken at the bookstore • c Dupre's Deadline 5/1/70 Peter ·Pause . 535 Nott Street black \Prelud minor.\ (' I ( ) l II ( The Comm warm in the Enviro \Earth is as fc 11:30 Guerill RSC Chudc meml: Hudso will sh 1:30 . 4:30- State . will sp 6:30. . \Pppu

1970 else here . The the Club 28 at aculty All j in last 7 Brun, of now to 1970 of on in for tive, All in by at there p to term. the the Wells April seniors on the serve ogram. e from P.M. If the g these . ( APRIL 17, 1970 Confused Peace Movement Finih Motivation Slipping By DANNY SHOCKET 1 Joss of motivation. In the I alluded to the Those who have been involved in the peace movement since before October know that an annual spring rite used to be to gather the forces against the Vietnamese war and march down 5th Avenue in New York City on a rainy April Saturday. The march was a great event, planned months in advance, and given widespread publicity. This year's march was replaced by a be-in which was replaced by a snowstorm. Not many people were going to attend this underground get-together, anyway. The second reason l mention these marches is to recount an event of one of them, the march of April 1968. Another Union student and I were periodically leaving our marching group to get further ahead in the lines, the objective being to get closer to the speakers' platform. I suggested we move ahead again, and he replied, .. No, I've lost my m o tiv at ion.\ Another marcher turned his head and said, \You've lost your motivation ... I'm hip.\ The three of us then continued our walk in the rain. It appears the entire peace rnovement is suffering from a beginning, the movement respectability of the peace desired respectability Un movement before; allow me 1965, the peace group to add some other aspect of accompanied the first large the respectability. In the march on Washington with a beginning, when the press threatening telegram to Ho characterized peace-niks as Chi Minh. The telegram was deluded misfits, the marches read to the assembled by Dr. had to really believe in the Spock.). Now the movement, cause. Now marches attract along with rebellion, is so those who enjoy crowds, rock respectable it is being used to music, and dope. I have two sell Pepsi-cola. Everyone is friends who went to the against the war, it just January 1969 anti-inaug- continues. uration because they could The peace movement itself is so splintered that it includes Abbie Hoffman and Averrill Harriman. Jerry Rubin feels his worst enemy is not Spiro Agnew, but James Reston. It becomes difficult to organize marches among people who do not speak to each other. One of the continuing beliefs of those in the peace movement was that if a large enough demonstration is assembled, if the majority of Americans are against the war, the politicians will end the war. In November, the largest demomtration in American history took place, and the resi.ll t is my draft number is 21, not exactly the results I envisioned as I shivered around the Washington Memorial. meet Skidmore girls on the bus. A friend in Boston joined S.O.S. because he thought it would be easier to get laid. On this, a revolution is not built. TI1ere will be no true nationwide spring demonstrations of the caliber that occurred in the fall. To those suffering withdrawal symptons, because for the first time in five years they have not spent a rainy April Saturday carrying a placard and laughing a New Rennaissance party demonstrators (\Karl Marx was only a Jew\) I ex tend my sympathy and the hope that the peace movement will regain its purpose and drive. However, giving standing ovations to speakers who are repeating ourselves is no cure, and a poorer placebo. Wilson Organ Recital Ends Series Sunday Phone 372~528 PARK PIZZERIA soloists Helen Henshaw and Betty Valenta of Schenecta·dy, offered a wide range of organ compositions with a heavy emphasis on Hugh Allen Wilson, Union College organist and acting d i rector of the college's department of the arts, will present the last in a ·series of six organ recitals in the Chapel Sunday at 4 p.m. FR/iE DELIVERY Italian Grinders Our Specialty French music of the 20th 1 century. Professor Wilson's selections for the program are Bach's \Sinfonia Cantata ' ( 29,\ two Buxtehude chorale This year's recital series, which also featured guest Behind Davidson Hall · One Block from lhe Campus 25 Park Place Schenectady, N.Y. preludes and his \Prelude and Fugue in F sharp minor,\ '• Handel's \'Concerto X,\ Endrich's \Prelude for Organ,\ Kupferman's \Adagio espressivo,\ and THE OTHER SIDE OFTOUAY 135 Jay St. • l Dupre's \Antiphon: I am black but comely\ and \Prelude and Fugue in G minor.\ ~ (' I ( The entire Union College Community has received a warm invitation to participate in the Russell Sage College Enviromental Teach-ln. The \Earth Day\ schedule in Troy is as follows: 11:30 - Me Kinstrv Courtyard - Guerilla Theater put on by RSC Drama Club Greg Chudoski; folk singer and member of Pete Seeger's Hudson Clear Water Sloop. He will sing and speak. 1 :30 • Little Theater - Movie 4:30- .LP. Lounge- New York State Senator Walter Langley . will speak 6:30 · Little Theater • movie . \PpPulation Growth\ Schenectady, N.Y. SERVING THE FIVE SENSES IMPORTS HANDCRAFTS l 0-6 Tues.-Sats. til 9 p.m. Thurs. DOUGLAS Your Headquarters For Fashion Footwear BOSTONIAN* BATES* WALL-STREETER HUSH PUPPIES* WALK-OVER* SEBAGO-MOCS MANSFIELD * SNOW & AFTER SKI BOOTS Phone FR 4-8577 319 State Street Schenectady, N.Y • $1 OFF PURCHASE OF SHOES UPON PRESENTATION OF I.D. CARD PAGE 3 Thus Spoke Spock Continued {rom Page 1 recently passed by the Massachusetts le gisla tu re. Spack's talk came on the eve of local Moratorium activities planned by Union stu dents, who distributed leaflets in downtown Schenectady and the Colonie shopping center Wednesday morning and afternoon. They also handed out leaflets at the General Electric Co. later in the afternoon. Not Losing Force Before his talk Spack told a group of about 150 students who had participated in a fast for peace Tuesday that he did \not think the peace movement is losing its force . It makes me angry when people keep telling me, well, nothing really did any good. Well, certairtly it did.\ Spack said he remains \optimistic from what I've seen in the past few years.\ He said he thought the peace movement would continue with '\the progressive radicalization of young people who are more and more moving to the left and looking for the roots of problems.\ LOVe has.a new ring to it. .&!Carvea the LOve Ring T» people. TURO It's a love ring. Because you are in love you'll want a ring that says love in every way. From the exciting cut of its diamond to the graceful elegance of its setting. Such a ring is a Love Ring from ArtCarved. Do come see our ArtCarved collection soon. Use Your Master Charge Card Maurice B. Graubart & Sons (Schenectady's famous diamond shop for 3 generations) 166Jay St. Three Union Graduates in Family



. . • . i I ' ! ! . .. I ' .. .· , · ' . . . ·~ ' ' · VOLUMNE 99/ NO. 51 The Spurtlows, a nationally known young sinfting group, will give a :free ~oncert in Memorial Chapel Thurscia.y evenilig at 7:~0 ' ' Founded at Union . College 1877 SCHENECTADY, :NEW YORK, APRIL 21, 1970 PRICE TWENTY CENTS LITTER tc : AMPAIGN · . S . TAB · Ts EARTH DAY With the Slll>POl't of the Schen- eetady C(lunty Chamber of Com- merce and ttie encouragement : ():f sev - eral lo - cal and national political figures, theBchene.ttady PYE (Protect Y!>ur Environment) · club WM reportedly weU pleased at tlle tu,rn.out this afternoc;:>n ,;for - its Litter -March tlu:ougl). tbecity. The march organize!i at 12:30 p.m. on the ' CaqiplJ$ and wound through downtown Scl1ene-ctady ending up at the County · Office B.uilding on Albany streetat In sup!M)r-t- ot the PY.E club's activities, the : S ch~ ne c ta--d y County Cha,mbet of Commerce passed · th~ following resolution at. its most rece.nt meeting: \The s c hen e c t a..dy County Cha.mJ>er of Commerce endo;rses the constru~tiv:e p;r(lg:r;ams ofthe · ,Proteet :r~u:r EnvironiJlent Clu'Q ofScbenectady and calls upon its rneml:!ers at;td community citiZens to join tn the project by pa:rtic~ .. pating :itt the April 21: \;Litter Pick .. Up~' Haren and ~he -'Teach- In\ programs on April22.\ Several poUtical tigures have also e~prel?~ed their sQppor.t for t:M local gr01,1p' s activitJ.es • . Among those l?acking l;be PYE . program are Schenectady Mayor Mlllcolm ):!;. Ellis; area Hepu.b- . lican CongressmM Da . h i e.I E). Button, N.Y • . ; Pemocr;~.tic Con• • ~ressman Richard D. Ottinger and Montana Pell)ocratic S.enator Lee Metcalf, a prornh)ent con- servationist. . approXimately 2:30 ' p,m. . 'I'he activitY was .a preludl;! to Wedriesday's Tea~b-In. on the Campus as part <>f Nationwide •Earth Day:~t observa,nces.. The . progtam tomprrow will featur-e seminars at 10:30 a,m., 1 p.m. , Concerdy Changes Printltrs To El ' imlnate Typo Erro:rs and 3 p~m. at the college - !l.!ld an As · f$ qllite evi(lent from this evening lecture . · by federal admfil.. evening's newSpl!-per, the •con- i s tr a t'o r .for the envirolllilent, . c or d l e ns is\ has chan~e<l its Charles c. Johnson, set for a p-.m. printer. The printing operation at the Unitarian ChUl'Ch on - luis ~en m:oyed from ~teburst The spurrlows co~cett is . span- Wendeli Ave. Print~g a11d Binding Co., of Troy sored .by the Schenectady area •we ~e hopefQl that large . to a prtn.ter in Scbenectady. At numbers of area. resident~ will least :fur tlle rest of this year, •Youth for Glu'ist• and is pri... tb ~ tbe - n~p'\r ... _ .. Ul - b\\ p · ~m· ted PY tile 11 participate and give ~ir suppoi. ~ - .. .. .. .. E<litor-in-Cbief He · n;ry Fein ~ommented tllat •we · certainly ho~ to do a better jobofprinting the paper now that o1,1r opera- tions are pack in Schenec~dy. The big problem of printing in Troy was that we could not proot- r~ad the ne.wspaper.; and tlle print e r coUld not do the job because of tbe tight scnedUle we run .. by. mar y Qriented at area nJgh to our program,, said Stephen P ti'b J:i :she r s of \The Jewish scb()Ol students, l>-ut admission World\ with offices on $tate is free, and all interested Union A. Alqira, a junioJ.\\ and cWrntan The gr< , mp~ which · has been students may attenc:l. of the area PY~ club. Street. •we were well aware - of th~ problern.s with numerous typo- graphical e~ror~, especially in . . E:*~1f:a~ ·· , . . · ·· E1ec\tions Next , Week- . . . . Jm~dli,nes, · that we.suffe~~ · under .. . .. -rn · ·- i.ro;V: . But until ~ tiie . · pies(!n~ . • . minute mtJSlc:al program called · · · · · · · · •Sing aNewSon,g,\ Tbe$purriows According to Elections Com- than careful noUodisentr~chise living off. I hope that apathy will are · now wuler eontract to the nils$ioner WiUiam OUZer nQ tb,em.!' . Ten~tlve p\~ call for notbe. a Clt-JI~e Qfl()W tuftlo:ut-we cnrysler Cor:poration for whom candidates . have yet stepped for- Student Activities to be open au plan -to be so accessible that th~y do mtiSiCal commercials tor ward for the office of Student day for balloting by . of! campus even the marginally concerned sate drivf , n g. Tlley re.c . ~ntly Senate-Secretary.- residents. TW.s represell~ at wUI find it convenient to cast a appear~ nationallYoQ.aBobHope . Ouzer said that BUI Dll-W~on, least a doubling of available ballot.• Chrysler Spedal. a junior I and Jeff Walk~!' I a time - over past years. All are invited to the West freshlnan, bad added theirnames •we aim for a ve-ry large College · 1i brary tbi$ Wediles- · to tb.e list of hopefuls for Presi- turnout,\ OUzer continu~; •l'll day evenirlg at 7:00 to meet the d · ent and Vice-President be satisfied with' 80% of those on . eandidates and partic.pate- in a.. respectively. campus and about 5o% of those questioa and answer session. COMMENT · opportumty came up, · we could find no other printer who co\lld do our pal>er . fOr the limited m()ney we could afford to ~ .. \ 'rile princi~ advantage of printing in Schenec~dy is tbat •c(lncordy'~ editors will now be able to personally over$ee tbe layout and setting .in type of the newspaper. ~$pellings ~d other printing errors should uow be reduced to 'A miiUmum. Theil' prog:ram is an attempt to · link timelass truths to contem- porary ll f e. The Spurr lows' phllosopby is that life is good when God !s in it. They tour s-eventy-:five cities ann.ually, . singing befol'e. a. quarter of a million peopl~. The concert pro- gram. includes a chorus, - orchestra and . featured soloists. They joinpreviously announced candidates Walter Spencer, John Witherspoon and Alan Gyurko • (see page three). As of Yet 1 :though, th~ oftlce of secretary stailds open,' with no contenders. Sources close to the candidates felt that interested parties would step forth soon to vie for the posiUou. Hoffman At Skidmore How to Get To Al . bany 'J;'here Will be a bus going to SUNY Albany and Skidmore . UUs Saturday. Ui!ion students wishing to go must make . a reservation by 10 a.m. on Friday, .at tlle student activities office in Old Gym Hall. Reservations will close prior to Friday if the bus is filled. NO LATE RESERVA- TIONS will be accepted. Tbe cost to each $tudent or to a guest aecompanied by a student is $. '76, round trip, payable when the rese-rvation is made.- Only round trip ticket~ wUI be sol<t No moneY will be aceeptad on the ' . - .pus. . The 'bus 'Will leave promptly ;;~.t the ~itnes stateQ b~low: . , t.eave Utiitm Chapel, 6:45p.m., to West Pa~IQ.ng Area at SUNY Albany, to Grand Union near Skidmore. Leave Grand Union near Skid- more, 2 a.m., to West Parking area at SUNY, 3 a.m., to Union campus. I f. - . - ; · , . ,. / I / Plans for the aetual balloting next Wed n e sd a.y- evening are Uy Ray Krise, Jr. reaching their fin.al stagesand Abbie HOffman, one of the will be announcQd in a day or fo under s , of the Y'outll. Inter- two, Ouzer said. national Party and a melllber of •My major concern,• theeom- · the •cru,cago 7,\ spc:>ke at 8:00 missioner said, •is that those 'thursday night on the Skidmore living offcampw:f get a real . campus green to a crowd of chance to participate ill the ·1200, most of whom bad come election. About 300 studeats li:~e . · ·: t«> see a costume party rather of{ campus and we must- be tnore - · tila,n to hear a speech. ~ANDIDATES' FORUM . ' WEBNES · DA Y - WEST COLLEGE LIBRARY· 7 PM ' I--- The purpose of Mr. Hoffnian's • appeara.tu:e was to raise money for the !l~fe~f;} of Bobby G. Seale, a purpose which was ful- filh d by the selling of 800 ti~ets, and by asking :tor dona- tions fr.() m those who had no tickets but who were able to With color TV's) on the ME!rv Griffen sbow because he wore a shirt resembling the Ameri- can :flag, Mr-. Hoffman stated, •Roy Rogers and !>ale Evans · wore the same fuckin' · shirt on Holl-yWoOd. P a Ia c e two week$ . be!ore and THEYweren'tblacMd attf\nd tbanks to the sh - ow's out. It's not the shirt, it's whO's . being moved :from Fathers' ..... w e · a r in' it.\ Sqmming up his HaU w the field a~ ross from the impression of sa r a tog a, Mr. New Ca.mpus. BoUman said, •Arcbie ~d On c . e the money baa oeeu collected, however, Mr. l:loff- ma~ was faced with the probleiJl of what to say to an apathetic, tinr e s pi) ns . i v e audien~e-a n audienee which- seemed to pre- fer to treathirn, an<l those actuaily listenillg to him as curiOsities, and curiClsities only. Mr. H!l:ffman ranged through a -variety ~f topics. In explaining ,· how he can -. esp<>use peaee and .. love. arui viole!lce . against r · epressil>n -all at the same time, · he said, •we•re in a system tllat IS violer~t, and anything done to desqoy ~t syste-m is an act <>! 1 o v e.\ Regarding hi3 ex~rience of being blaclted-out {or •blued-out,\ fOr those - of you Veronica must llave gone · to sch<KJl in saratoga.\ Ending with an exhortation to the crow<J that they can effe<!t so~ial change-that even they can do something to nelp America -Mr.. Hoffman shouted, •You're gonna do it right here in Sara- toga-B~ylon!~ He paused and lowered his voice. • 1 Cause if ya don't, they're gonna do it to you.\ .. Tlie speech concluded. the . sil.o .. · ent m a jo r it y of the aQdience adjourned r~r D' Andre~'s bar,..<;;O rapidly th.:lt most of the girls· did not evE:n hnvt. h.me to remove Ute headbands theyh(l.dpurcllliS€d especially for lbe ~venmg. A sp . lendi · d · time had been guaranteed - . fot ?11. _ .;_:: 4 .·· , - . . i r ( I ! l ' / . ·

THE ELECTIONS Today the first for:m.al motions of the 1970 Student Body Election ca.mpaign are being made. The men on the opposite page each have a plan, a view of what is wrong and how it can be made right. The issue for the voters .appear to be largely, What next? The new system of government is well inaugurated after a successful yearunder President Don Kessler and now we must decide how to .act on the business that remains. One thing that s hou1d be eminently clear is the very real import of th€se elections. It is through the officers we elect next week that our voice in college affairs is most effectively carried. These men lead the drive f<>r a greater student voice, and revision of the acailernie program. ·As much as classroom and campus lHe affects you is exactly how much the cho.iceof student body officers affects you. It is imperative to be aware of the issues and to vote. Wednesday night in West College the candi- dates will be together, in a group, to face your questions. Sunday night on WRUC they will be available to answer your questions over the radio. This newspaper promises extensive coverage of the campaign and the candidates in the three issues before the elections. It is up to you to take advantage of these events and after edueating yourself to vote wisely. Elections will be held later in the term for class officers and ACC representatives. The impor- tance of the Class President as a member of the Committee on Committees cannot be underesti- mated, and obviously, the ACC carries much influence. Although th.e election season is long, sometimes tiring and occasionally confusing, your attention will be well rewarded with the choice of good officers. Any member of the student body is eligible to fill the senate offices of President. Vice- Presi- dent, and Secretary. At present there are rio contenders for the last office. This position, though taxing, is vital to the functioning of the student government as set-up by our constitution. Anyone who has a sense of dedication and a facility for writing and speaking should definitely consider running for this post and a eareer in student government. This newspaper will make no specific ~ndorse­ rnents this year, in keeping with a practice which has been most effective in the past. This choice we leave up to the voter, providing primarily information, some comment, but no endorsement. VOTE APRIL 29, IN YOUR LIVING UNIT Published Tuesday and Friday during the Sch<Jol year by the Student B<Jdy of Union College, Schenec· tady, N.Y. National Adver· tis in g Rep r e sent ativ e National Educational Advertising Service, Inc., College Publishers Repre- sentative, 360 Lexingtoo Avenue, N.Y.C. - &ditDria.l Office, Old Gym, Union C<Jllege Publication Office, The World Publica· tioJis, 771 State St., Schenectady, N .• Y. 12307, 346·Z3a6. Entered in the Schenectady Post Office as .Second Class Mail Matter Subscription ZO cents a copy. ~6 a year delivered anywhere in the United States. Hetuy G. Fein William Ouzer Editors-i n·Chief Peter J. Weingold ................ Managing Editor Lloyd Burns ................ Business Manager William J. Holleran . . . . . .......... Sports Editor Jody Saslow ...... , ....... · .. Photography Editor M. Paul Andrews ............ Contributing J:;ditor Richard PattersoB ............ Conmbuting Editor NeilS. Kramer . : ............... t:diror Emeritus Staff: Rubert A. Levim. Danny Shvcket. David Uguccioni. Louis Snit kof/. Tony Faga. D!Jug Wong, M. Grossman. Mike Gullfieb. Jaht1 Harrigan_, Peter Bickerman, Kevin RoberJs, Michelle Vuttis, Lloyd /Jirns, Michael Swirslcy, Neil Green, Douglas Tush, George Kaplan, Charles Long, ,Jt,fllrk Sht,~goll. Greg Hamlin, Mike Humber, Dennis Alsojrom. Stu Moss, Bruce Garber, Hank Levine, Dave ConreJ~ Doug Binder, Thomas Mwarrte, ;Mike Meserole. 'Midnight Cowboy,' 'Heat of\ the Night' Com.bine for Double Win at Proctor's By Mike Mese11ole Somebody down at the Proc- tor's Theater took a calculated risk a feW week_s ago and booked a double feature including the 1967 Academy Award winner •In fu.e Heat of the Night/ and 1969 nominee •Midnight Cowboy •. • The gamble, naturally, was that «Mid- night CowboY\ would g r a b tile· Best Picture Oscar as the past year's finest movie. Well, it did, and now we know there's one guy in thiS town with brains. Individually, the two movifi!S are fi!Vfi!ry bit as good as their awards would indicate: \Mid- night Cowboy,\ more contem- porary and relevant for •tell it like it is' long hairs, and \In the 'Heat of the Night,\ just as meaningful, and satisfying for p o.pc ern-munching tens ion- lovers. This reviewer digs his .popcorn, but at the same time has let his sideburns drop. Excellent as these films are by tnemselves, on the same bUl tlley are even better. Both pic- tares are essentially two-man studies; a young, black detective and a bigoted, white southern chair like the l'ifle~ on the wall sheriff in •Heat of the Night,\ fit into the gun rack. And when and the one-tracked, rangy Texan he eases behfud the wheel of that wil;A the dirty, crippled New white Rambler, with thoseyellow Yorker in \Midnight Cowboy,\ sba,des on tight, lli$ .eap pushed The mutual exp.osure of back and hi,s jaws workin~ ove;r- strengths and faults, and the time on. a sti~k o:t . Sp!i!armint, resulting cOJ;nbined effort in he, lS The Law. Tne.6hly thiilg buildihg cbaracter mak~s these missiii.g ~st \Boy 'y6u're ill a , pictures great. But it is not the heap a trouble/' · · purpose of this reView to pass His reactions to Sidriey Poiti~r; judgment-the hardware has as ViJ:gil Tlbbs, th~;bra~k homi~ . already been .passed out-a ~w cide expert fro$ Philadelpl!ia, remarks, however, .are per- are genuf,ne, espec~lY. Whf1!1 he mitted. tells Tibbs ~t .h~ ~ the oilly Of the nominated films in i967, human being Uiat h~ has ever let \lil the Heat of the Night\ took into 1\iS home~ You're not pushed the Oscar mainlY because those to believe that they ar.e p:est of voting coulda't deci(!e wheth~r :friends at the close. Tl).ey over- 111The Gl'aduate 11 was better than come the mli.J;\der and themselVes, •Bonnie & Clyde~\ and a smile an:d hahdSIJil,ke are Regardless, i~ the Best Pic- enough. ture was selected. on block votes., •Midnight Cowb()y,\ U'you can the Best Actor of the year was resiSt the .temptatloJJ. to repay not. Even a :i?atU Newman freak, John Wayne for ~mg the West, upon fair scruti.Izy, would !lave to boasts a toss-up for t;he year's acknowledge Rod Steiger's Chief ·Best Actor. Dustin Ho:t'f!llan and Gillespie over Newman's cool Jon Voight are outst:;mding. As Hand Luke. As he did in «The \Ratso\' Rizzo, you can $mell Pawnbroker,\ Steiger I:Jecomes Gillespie. He slumps into the CW,ef's cracking leather desk Hoffman-just looking at him makes your underwear feel two moQths old. Voight's Joe Bu~k is e q u a 11 y pathetic, although his constant optimism gives Rats o - BliTHER,· the chance to die clinging to- some measure of hope. My only objection to this pic- ture is that maybe, just maybe, David Herwitz, Professor of .M:iddle Eastern Affairs at tne CIQlumbia University School of Public Affairs, will speak to the International Relations Club and anyone else who is interested on 'The Arab-Israeli Conflict,\ at ~:45 tonight in the Old Chapel. The talk is part o:( the Club's continuing series, 11 Alternatives for an American Foreign P.olicy.\ Mr. Ross would like to have s u g g e s t i o n s fr o m students, faculty and..s.taff on speakers for next year's Lectuves and Con- certs Series. Suggestions should be sent to: Mr. Donald Ross, Classics Department Humanities Build- ing. A tour in g collection of art pr:ints, including works by Rem- b x and t, Picasso and Chagall, will be exhibited Monday, April NY Pro Musica In Chapel Wed. The New York Pro Musica, renowned for its spectacular re- creations in period costume of the music of the Middle Ages afid R-enaissance, will present a pro- g:ram of the music of Elizabethan gngland this Wednesday evening. The program, to begin at 8:30 p:..m. in Memorial Chapel, is s]lonsored by the Schenectady Museum-Union College Concert Committee. ~ow in its second decade, the Pro Musica provides audiences \vith the musical masterpieces of the ages that produced the genius ()f Shakespeare and Leonardo da Vinci. The group 1 s restorationof Renaissance dance, costume, poetry and music in • .An En1er- tainment for Elizabeth\' has been ealled 111 a feast for the eye, the ear, and the mind. fl they 'over-tell it li,JI:.e it ain't 27, from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. in the quite.' I mean, come on, I've Old Chapel. been todozensofHorn,&Hardarts The exhibition, sponsored l:lY London Grafica Arts of Detroit, Mich., ihcludes ro ore than 500 pieces and includes contem- p.o r a r y graphics as well as prints by the masters. and I've never seen ~ haggard, 30-ish brunette messing around with a rubber mouse. I always find myself sitting with nice, old Jewish grandmothers who keep offering me Saltines. Reminder:. All concerts ill the Poor Joe Buck; religious Lectures and ConcertsSeries are fanatics, cheap penthouse broads, FREE to Union st\ldents. The nex:t perverts, lonely out of towners two are: with loose teeth-it's a wonder New York Pro Musica April22 he didn't run into Mario Pro- Joseph Suk May 19 caccino. Social Relief Com·mittee Se,eks Men For Projects There are several challenging projects in the Schenectady area which involve Union students in the .community. One such project is the Indus- trial Arts c e n t e r being con- structed across the street in the Nott Terrace School, wl}ich is one of the lower socio-economic- level s c hoo Is in Schenectady. Sever a 1 Union students are already involved in the project, which involves leading groups of children or working with indi- vidual children in small phases of building their own arts and crafts center. The project is just getting under way and is still open to anyone who would like to join, ' even if for only one morning or afternoon a week. Another project is the after school Drop-In Program for ele- mentary school children in the Alpany Street area. This program involves education and recreation two afternoons a week. Several other projects are available in the Schenectady school system and the Schenectady Volunteer Aid Bureau. These inclu!ie tutor- ing, leading field trip$, running sports or movie programs, delivering furniture to welfare recipients, etc., etc. Any student interes~ed in any of these activities should contact the Social Relief Committee. Call Phil Di Sorbo at 346-5225. Pennel Esso Service Nott Street Corner Of Van Vranlten At an afternoon dress rehear- , . sal from 4 to 5 p.m.; free to all s~udents from the lower grades tlu.'ough college~ the performers will appear in their Elizat>etban costumes and explain some of the odd and interesting m U'S i cal inStruments they use in the pro- gram •. \OUTFITTERS TO MEN and YOUNG MEN\ 447-4~1 STATE. ST. SCHENECTAD'V' . .. E In a ' the offi last ni~ for Stuc s.ented 1: platform up()n at: College at 7:00. Bill : thrl;l!il ca .Preside yeaxs,. · 'l'he St1 Student Commi year hi class first r Servicl vated the SE social into ac In~ should on car Daws expan:: Affair. co·mm more CON' first I With : wan in~ Unic win or decisil Alb:inJ a two· into ~ howe secop.c Berk

Election Forum 1 By Louis Snitkoff if he were elected. Finally, he hopes to \.bring the students into a position on campus from which they can speak, as students, on aca.rlemic matters ,II ifhe reaches the post of president, In a series of interviews in the offices of \Conco:rdiensis\ last ni(1;ht, the fi. ve candidates for Student aody offices pre- s.ented brief summaries of their platforms, which will be ejcpam;led upcin at an open fovuminthe West College LibraX,y tomorrow night, at 7:00. \ Bill DawsoJl, 1 71, is one of thrl;llil candidates for Student aoqy .President. For the ,past tbree yeats,. M b.as been involved in 'l'he Studen~.; · <founcil ,and The Student SQte as well as the The second candidate, Walter Spencer, 1 '72, is currently Vice President of the Student Senate. If elected, Spencer hopes to otcon- tinue with some ot the things we've done this year.\ BILL DAWSON Committee on Committees. Last year he served as Sophomore class president, am~ was also first president of the Circle K Service Club. Dawson, a deacti- vated fraternity man, said that the Senate shOuld \Get out of social activities and get more into academics.\ In addition, he ,said, people sb.ould know what'.s _being done. on campus and who is doing it. Dawson also advocated the expansion of both the curricular Affairs Committee and theSocial Committee, which would assume more powerful roles on campus CONTINUED FROM P-4 first half and clinching the win Willi a three-point try in the waning seconds of the contest. Union's \B\ team also failed to win on Saturday, dropping a 5-3 decision to Albany Med's \B's\. Albany scored first on a try and a two-point conversion to move into a 5..o0 lead. The Garnet; how eve r, railied in the last . seconds of the game with Tony Berk and Kent Wiley falling on a Specifically, Walt cited the Pass-Fail program and the new Comp Ed revisions as steps in the right direction toward •opening up the academic pro- gram.\ If elected, Spencer will propose the abolition oflanguage requirements and changes in the advisor pFOgram. According to Spencer, the contacts he has made on campus in the past two YE!ars will be a major factor in his success as Student Body President, tf elected. The third candidate, Alan W, Gyurko, 1 '72, prefers to be known as •Brother Free Will of the One Universal Life Church.'~ Gyurko, whose slogan is \Off The Board W!LT SPENCER · loose ball in the Med end zone for the try. The Dutchmen lost fue chance for the tie, however; when Berk' s attempted conversion from a wide angle sailed wide. The ruggers will not be in action next weekend, but on May 2, Parents' Weekend, the club will host the first Union In.vita- tion~l Rugby Tourney~featuring squads from Williams, Amherst, UMass, Albany Law, and Schenectady Rugby Club. ATTENTIOi\ SEl\IORS Caps & Gowns measurements now being taken at the bookstore Deadline 5/ l/70 TBE.RED FOX 123 JAY ST. A Quiet Place To Dine 10% off .. on Dinners Thur ., F,r,i .• ,, Sot. Ni.ght · APRIL 21, 1970 PAGE 3 • • The Candidates _ One of two candidates for Vice · President is Geoff Walker, '73. ALAN GYURKO of Trustees-all power to EQU A:L s t u d en t, faculty and administrative or Board.ofTrus- te,es REPRESENTATIVES,\ ad- vocates the end to all require- ments for graduation. Students> should, according to Gyurko, choose their own subjects. A pro:cy senator this year • he said that decisions on reappointment of faculty should be left entirely in the hands of student evaluation of professors. He feels there should b,e better p o 1 ice protection during vaca- tions, continuation of maid ser- vices and open off campus housing for a:ll students. He also :recom- mended a Student Union Center and new gym facilities \NOW.\ Gyurko said he would also like to see ROTC off campus and a ·completely co-ed Union by 1972- 1973. Walker, who is \tired of the apathy at Union College, of which I too am guilty, 11 would lilte to see more student involvement in government next yea,r. He was involved in Student Govern- ment in High School and would try to involve the students not enly in the Senate proceedings but in community affairs as well. Walker's major criticism of the college's current policies was that the curriculum is too much like that of a 41 trade school 11 and tbat students sh..,uld have more to say in establishing requirements for majors, making this more of a liberal arts col- lege. •The students--the people who attend the college-should play a 111ore influential role in shaping their academic studies,\ Walker said, GEOFF WALKER Walker's only opponent is John Withex:spoon, '73, Witherspoon, a brother in FIJI, believes that -security should be much tighter in both dorms and fraternities. If e 1 e ct e d, he would like to attempt to improve fraternity- adminiStration relations which, in his words, are 11 strained.ll In addition to the abolition of lan• gu a g e requirements, he l,s in favor of the establishment of a Drama major which\ is demanded by many students.\' Witherspoon, who would like to ·continue the progress made in the last two years, praised the \trend towardliberalismon cam- pus.11 Like Spencer, Witherspoon believes his experience as a Student Senator .and as Secre- tary of the Committee on Com- mittees this year would be valu- able to him as Vice President, if elected, JOHN WrPHERSPOON If the above statement doesn't get you and your friends over to theUtic)l Club Brev1·ery for a weekday.tour, nothing will. (Brewery Touts in Utica, N.Y. open to the public 10 to 5 weekdays. Closed Saturdays, Sundays, major holidays, Good Friday, P~imary D~y and Election Day.) · ,, ,, {; '('~) ~ \\\ ', 'l,., . ' I f u;l 1-! fi' vl \

Concordy Batsmen Split Pair Sp?rts BY BILL HOLLERAN Victimized by a leaky defense on Fr!day afternoon's 6-5 lossto Dr e w, the Gar n e t batsmen rebounded Saturday on the strength of a ten-hit attack and a three-run rally in the eighth inning to beat Stevens, 5-4. The win at Stevens assured the Dutch- men of a split in their weekend New Jersey road trip, and gave them a. 2-1 record after three contests. Coach Art Lawrence com- mented before the season opener last week that the key to Union's hopes this season was their pitch- ing staff. Lawrence got adequate pitching in Friday's contest from starter~ John Siedlecki and his relief man, Hank Lambert, but watched in dismay as his sup- posedly sound defense com- mitted six errors, serving up four unearned r u n s in the pro- c;:ess. The Garnet struck first in the contest, scoring in the top of the first when shor.tstop Dale Long doubled home Ken Pearce, who had reached on an error and , stolen second base. In the last of the first, how- ever, Drew's leadoff man reached base on an error, stole second, and scored as right- fielder Bob MacKenzie dropped a fly ball on the run. After Siedlecki fanned the next batter, the Rallgers p·u she d across another run on third baseman Pearce's first error of the day and a single. Drew added two more tallies in their half o:f the second, on three singles and three stolen bases, to up their lead to 4-1. The un:fortunate Siedlecki who had pitched well in his two full innings of work, allowing four singles while fanning five and walking none, was then lifted iu favor of Hank Lambert. The Dutchmen rallied for two runs with two outs in the third, to close to within one run. Bob Mitchell started the rally, reach- ing base on a miscue by Drew's first baseman and scoring on Pearce's double. Long, who had a fine three for three afternoon at the plate, then tripled to score Pearce. Union pulled ahead in the top of the sjxth, scoring twice to take a 5-4 lead •. Long punched his third hit of the day, a single, baseman Mike McGee reached on an error ,and catcher Rick Arons lifted a sacrifice fly to move the Albany Med Tops Rugby r u n n e r s up. Left- fielder Tom Anacker doubled to score Long and McGee. Drew capitalized on Union's defensive lapse in the sixth and seventh innings, pushing across single . tallies in each stanza to win the ballgame. In the sixth, an error sandwiched between two singles gave the Rangers the tying run, while Pearce's second miscue, a sacrifice bunt, and a basehit provided :brew with the winning tally in the seventh. The Dutchmen again started off fast in Saturday's Stevens con- test, clicking for two runs in tile top of the first. Left-Iielder.John Quirk led off with a double, and moved over to third on Mitchell's sacrifice groundout to short. After Pearce flied out, Long, who collected tllree more hits in Saturday's game to go six for seven on the weekend, singled to s c ore Quirk. Long then stole second, and crossed the plate on MacKenzie's double. Stevens rallied with a run in their half of the first against Garnet starter Kevin Coyne, and tallied two more times in a bizarre s:ixth inning; to take the lead, 3-2. Coyne f:anned Stevens' leadoff man to st!ll't the siXth, butwalked the seco!ld batter.. Coyne then tried a pl«!k:off attempt, but first b a s e m a<ll MacKenzie, reaching for the tag a split second too early, fall!lled on the throw. The ball sta.y~d in play, rolling down the rigllt field foul line, and the Stevens rmner rac.ed all the way to third. After a.. grollndout, Stevens put another man on first thanks to P e a r c e' s third error in two games. 'rhe next batter lined a shot back to the mound, which bounced ~ffpitcher Coyne's cheek and rolled into right-center field, scoring t~o rllllS. Coyne 'Was removed from the game aft.er the play, and in a surprise move Coach Lawrence brought in tbe vel'Satile Long to pitch. He retired the side in the six:th. and, although Stevens flurried :J:or a single run in the last of the ninth, he picked up the win 'li'lhen the Dutchmen ral- lied fo:r the three winning runs in their half of the eighth. Trackmen Open To,morrow Jaszczak To Set Pace By Greg Hamlin Union's varsity track team opens its outdoor season tomor- row, traveling to Hartford for a meet with' Trinity College. •This is undoubtedly tlte best team I've ever had/ commentedCoaehRon Coleman, when asked about the team outiook this season. D is·t a .n c e runner Forbes is capable of doubling in the mile and two mile runs, and should challenge the school standards in both events. Watkins, already holder o:f the Union pole vault record a:s a. freshman, could be among tlJ.e best in the state this year. Addin~ depth to tile cinder All-American Rick Jaszczak squad ..,ill be sprinters Steve will be the workhorse on the Andreski and Bruce Cobb, and team. The soph can expect to quarter-milers Steve Wood, Pete run in as many as four~ different Erics()n~ and Geoff Walker. Frosh events-the 220, 440, 88(), and Walker, whoshouldbethenumber mile relay. Jaszczak, however, one triple jumper for the Dutch- is still nursin~ a badly pulled men, ha:.s looked particularly left hamstring, and because of impressive in pre-season work- this injury he will see action · outs. in only the half-mile run against Trinity. Coleman said the majority of the team would be made up of sophomores, who ran on last sea- son's unbeaten yearling squad, and freshmen. The Garnet will open their home season with a Saturday meet against St. Lawrence. Union athletic teams have yet to beat a squad ftom St. Lawrence this year. THE PEANUT STORE The Rugby Club, hoping for the first win of their brief his- tory in their spring opener on Saturday, failed to display a con- sistent attack in falling to Albany Med., 6-0. Ed Rossi, Tim McCabe, Paul Forbes, and Gray Watkins should be the best in their respective events. Rossi, coming off a fine indoor season, will compete in the 120-yard high hurdles. The 880 and the 440 intermediate hurdles !'hould be McCabe's forte although the freshman will be pushed by Jaszczak in the former event. Featuring PLANTERS HOT ROASTED PEANUTS and Nutmeats from all over the world. The contest was part of a four- team tournament hosted by the Dutchmen. In other action, the Schenectady Rugby Club blanked a first-year club from Syracuse University, 5-0, and went on to• meet Albany Med in the tour- nament finale. The tourney ended in a tie, as Albany and Schenec- tady battled to a 0-0 deadlock m the championship game. Union's contest with Albany was ..:..1rked by tough defensive play by both sqUads, but Med showed the better offense in scor- ing a penalty kick late in the CONTINUED ON P-3 406 STATE ST. LUIGI'S RESTAURANT SPECik.LIZING :J N Italian • American Food ·JJ25 BARRETT ST. Schenectady 01 6-9744 Enjoy Sizzling Steaks and Chops Visit Our Cocktail Bar Lax Suffers First Loss Statesmen Romp, 15-1 BY MARK SHUGOLL Union's lacrosse team tl'aveled to Geneva, New York, onBatur- day, with a string of 28 straight defeats against perennial power Hobart College on the line. When they returned home the ske.in was lengthened to 29, as the Gaxnet continued their record of inepti- tude against the Statesmen, bow- ing 15-1. The loss was the fi:I'st this year for Union after two '¥ins. The Garnet had previously doW he d Middlebury, 3n2, and Stevens, 13-1. Mike Ryan and John T'opochak did most of the damage fur the Statesmen, combiliing for nine of the Hobart goals, 'I'opochak~ a junior, led the nation vrith 65 goals last season, inch.1ding 14 in a game .against Brockport. The Statesmen firEd three shots into the Union net in the opening session and added to the rout with four more in each o:f the remaining J;leriods. Meanwhile, the Ga·rnet could not find the net, managing only four shots on goal. H;i.ghly-touted Hobart goalie Dave· Creighton was barely tested, making only three saves. Union averted a shutout when Mark Sanderson tallied in the third period. The goal was San- derson's third of the season. The one statistic the Gaxnet did manage to run up was in the dubious penalty minutes column .. Union was forced to play four- teen and a half minutes short- banded, allowing Hobart to con- stantly l!;eep the pressure on the Union goaJ:..tending duo of Ed Green and Bob Erlandson. The tandem made 13 stops. The Dutch.men spend this week at home, hosting Hamilton tomor- row at 3 p.m., and Alfred Satur- day at 2 p.m. Tennis Drops Two Home Matches By 5-4 Scores The tennis tE~am dro:pped two close matches athometllisweek- end, both by 5-4 margins. on Friday, the Dutchmen. iell to Hob a r t while they were vic- timized by SteveilS Tech Saturday. The netmen ue now 1-2. The Hobart singles competi- tion was split 3-3. Jeff South won in straight sets, while Ken Groover and Ernie Gullette took their matches in three sets. The first two doubles matches were also split as Bob Mandcy- Stu Fischler lost in tllree sets and Groove r-Guilette won in straight sets. That left the :first doubles of Jefi South-Fred Kap- lan still on the courts to decide the match. The Garnet stlecutnbed in three sets, losing tlte finale 6-4. The chief weakness Saturday against Stevens was th.:~ singles, in which the Garnet could only capture the last two matches. South lost in three sets as did Mandry and Kaplan, Wni.le Fisch- LOOKING FOR A ler lost in straight sets. Once again Groover and Guilette won, both in straight sets. Gullette, ·who is undefeated, lo s t only one game to his Stevens foe. Needing a sweep of the doubles for victory, the Dutchmen could capture only two. Groover- Guilette won easily. Jim Skiff replaced South, who was injured in his singles match, and com- bined with Kaplan for a marathon B-6 1 0-6, 16-14 win. Mandry-Fiscbler were defeated in straight sets. Graubart & Sons may run small ads, but they have big values. Scl-1enectody's famous d1omond shop, for three g~;?nerahons) 166 Joy St. Three Union Graduates in Family. TEACHING POSITION? CHOOSE fR()M AMONG 3700 VACANCIES·- Listed by 195 Public School Districts through- out Connecticut, New Jersey, and Nassau, Suffolk, Westchester & Rockland Co'unties in New York Stc:Jte. Hundreds of teaching positions in all areas and fields .of the Elementary and Secondar.y levels. Some vacancies for Department Chairmen, Assistant Pri11cipals, Principals, Supervisors and Coordinators. All these positions for September of 19.70 are listed in the Journal of Educational Listings. Send for your copy now - Limited number a- vailable. Mail To: J~»urnai of Educational Listings 59. P. 0. Box 250 Dept. 3 C. •Set Farmingdale, Lorig. lslantl, N. Y. 11735 Price - $10.00 per copy - Check, Money Order or cash Please send me ........ copy (s) of the Journal at $10.00 per copy. I am enclosing $ ........................ . Name ............................................ f ........................... ; ......... .. Address ................... ~··············~···············~·········\''···~·············· City ......................................... , .......... State ....................... . PRINT CLEARL'Y Zip ............................... . ':~ VOLUME 99, N0 .. 52 US Environment Calfs For Nader- , Crusade On PoUt The administrator of the Federal Environmental K e a 1 th Service r eco.m mended the example of consumer crusader Ra.J,.ph Nader to those •who are really ap .. tight\ over •the pr<>blems invo·l ved in the environmental threat.\ demonstJ our poilu Mr. Jc of the sa as did at a FrE Schenect Charles c. Johns~;~n, Jr., was the g u e s t .of the schenectady PYE C::l'Ub and the Capital Dis- trict Graduate Council 1or the Envl:ronment Wednes<la.y -at the Unitarian Society. J'()}ulson, a Democr-at and the high1lst rank- ing Negro in the Nixon .Adminis- tration, spoke on the second night of environment activities. Yet M audience thinking boils do and de~ ecologic up tne l luters •• that wh: Schenect;J.dY's En vl r o nment acUviti~s were officially laUilchfld by Professor Car 1 Ge<>rge of the Biology Depart- mellt in Library Pla2.a at 12:30 p.m. on. Tuesday. :Professor George, speaking to a erovr<i of approximately se'Venty-:five, despite cold rainy weather, urged the marchers to re(!ruit more peOJlle along the vray. «Everyone,\ he said, \if not part of the solution is part of the problem., • lie spoke briefly on the \Hans Brinker .Bfl.l~ currently being considered in the United States Congl'ess. The bill, introduced into the House by local congress- IruJ.n, Daniel Button 1 would require companies to .give con- sumers an opportunity to assess the value of their patented articles before mass-producing them. A Bureau would be estab- li:;hed in the Department of Com- merce to deal vrith this procedure. George described the Pure F()od and Drug .Administration as a department concerned with .personal health, whexeas the pro- pvsed bureau would concern itself with eri.Vir.onmental health, which, accol'ding to the Professor, is a prerequisite :for personal health. After the brief address, the . marchers proceeded on a walk U!rQJJr{b Schenectady to pick up 1 itt e r from the streets, and· Bond Speaks On Tue·sday Julian Bond, Geoxgia legisla- wr and prominent political and social commentator, Vlilllecture Tuesday, Ap:ri128, at.l1:30 a.m. in Mem()rial Chapel on the topic, \What~s Next?\ ona. of the foUllders of the Student Non-Violent Coordinating Comii1itt€!e (SNCC) in 1960, Bond gained national attention in 19.65 Vlhen he was denied his elected seat Ul the Georgia House of Representatives :for anti- Vietnam wa.p statements. Two y~ars and two elections la.ter 1 h.e took hl,s place in t~e legislature after the u.s. ·Supreme Co uri ruled the Georgia. H o u s e had erred til xefusing him his seat. Bond, now $(}-years-old, was nominated for tlie vice prP-.si- ilency at the 19613 Democratic National Convention, but was too young to run, Ml News Jo~ B Presi changed have a student: but th' student them, =: ation c from System. Undel draft 1 lottery tration elimina ments jobs tl nation a. action, of any 1 now in until U te:ach come , deferm Shl bri. evE scJ an«

PAGE 2 CONCORD'IENSIS., APRIL 24, 1970 TRUE COMMIJNITY The lack of student representation in the decision to call off classes for the Founders' Day activities is another demonstration of the absence of student participation in f acuIty decision-making bodies. In order that this con- dition does not continue we recommend that the faculty and administration take immediate action on the Student Senate proposal that all faculty and administration legislative bodies include two student representatives chosen by the Senate. Students have never denied faculty members or administration officers the right to speak to or merely be present at any meeting of students. Since education must always stem from discussion and the prime motivating force of the College must of course be education, we must strongly advocate the reciprocation of these privileges. The Student Senate voted to endorse the can- ceilation of classes on Founders' Day and,. we tkink, rightly so. The program planned is an excellent one and even though no similar action was taken on the occasions of the assassinations of Preside n t John Kennedy, Senator Robert Kennedy and the Reverend Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., nor for any of the Moratoriums, the program proposed for that day provides an ideal forum for students to bring up and discuss these issues. The letter that the Senate recommended be sent to the President should be followed by widespread student vocalization on this issue at the Founders' Day Activities. Over the past several years there has developed a sense of complacency among the stu- dents. It seems to be that because only meager student action was responsible for Black student recruiting, abolition of convocations, liberaliza- tion of parietal rules, and the elimination of the m-aintenance requirement, we've reached a period of \benign neglect\ with regard to student activism and no longer feel the urgency of demanding much more basic changes in the college. There are many issues basic to the survival of the College confronting us now. In deciding the future of graduate studies, language require- ments, degree requirements and major require- ment structures, an organization such as the proposed but not yet developed All College Academic Council would be helpful, but not helpful enough. The solutions to the problems of Union must be reached through joint, open dis- cussion by the fa c u 1 t y, administration, and students. Published T u e s day and Friday during the School year by the Student Body of Union College, Schenec· tady, N.Y. National Adver· t i s i n g R e p r e s e n t ative Nationa 1 Educational Advertising Service, Inc., College Publishers Repre- sentative, 3GO Lexington Avenue, N. Y.C. Editorial Office, Old Gym, Union College Publication Office, The World Publica- tions, 771 State St., Schenectady, N.Y. 12307, 346-2356. Entered in the · Schenectady Post Office as Seco11d Class Mail Matter Subscription 20 cems a. copy. $6 a year delivered anywhere in the United States. Henry G. Fein William Ouzer 0 Editors-i11-Chief Peter J. Wei11gold ........................ Managing Editor Lloyd Burns ..................... .......... Business Manager William J. Holleran ...................... Sports Editor Jody Saslow ............................... Photography Editor M. Paul Andrews ......................... Contributing Eqitor Richard Patterson ...................... •. Contributing Editor Neil S. Kramer ............................ Editor Emeritus Staff: Robert A. Levine, Danny Shocket, David Uguccioni, Louis. Snit.koll; Tony F'aga~ D-oug Wong, M. Grossman, Mike Gottlieb, John Harrigan, Peter Bickerman, Kevin Roberts, Michelle Vottis, Lloyd Birns, Michael Swirsky, Neil Green, Douglas Tosh, George Kaplan, Charles L~ng, Mark Shugoll, Greg Hamlin, Mike Humber, Denuis AJsofrom, Stu Moss, Bruce Garber, Hank Leviae, Dave Conrey, Doug Binder, Thomas Morante. Mike Meserole, Libertarians To Discuss School Rig,hts The Capital District Chapter of the New York Civil Liberties Union, an affiliate of the .Amer- ican Civil Liberties Uni<>n, will host aspeeial colloquiumentitled •civil .Liberties in the Schools\ on Tuesday, April 28, at 8:00 P.M. The meeting, at Channing Hall of the First Unitarian Church of Albany,405 WashingtonAvenue, ·is open to the public \\lLthout charge, Featured panelists are,Atldrew Lichterman,. a student a.t Nis- kayuna High School and son of Dean Martin Lichterman; Thomas Murphy, teacher at Lin- ton High School; Frederick Bur- dick, pr inc i pa 1 at Bethlehem Middle School; and Jolm Connolly, p~incipal at Colonie CentralHigh Scho()l, Prof. Charles Olton, the Chai·rman of the Civil Liberties Union chapter, will moderate the discussion. According to Dr. Olton, the panel will «seek to define and· analyze the competing Interests that operate in a school com- munity, with a view to deter- mining the relationship between the individual's rights to speak and write and learn freely and the school's right to maintain an o r de r l y educational envil'on- ment.\ At the end of the dis- cussion the audience will be invited to question the p:tnelists. Open Letter Students Organize-to Aid Congress· Candidate Fox By M. Paul Aiulrews Union. students will have the opportunity to begin campaigning for peace candidate Ed Fox tomorrow morning with leafleting of downtown Schenectady and other local s hop pi n.g areas, according to Pete Starkweathe:r., campus organizer of Fox's cam• paign. Starkweatller said yesterday thaf he will distribute fact sheets and leaflets from FIJI between 9:30 and. 10 a.m. tomorrow. Starkweather, who was instru- mental in local and campus cam- Paigning for Eugene McCarUly two years ag~, said that future campaign pfans call for com- munity canvassing and openillg of downtown campaign headquarters for Fox in fue former McCarthy headquarters storefront on upper State Street. Fox, a professor at R.P.L, is opposing Sam .Stratton in tlle democratic primary for the 29th. Congresslonal District. Stl'atton, a member ·Of the House .Armed Services Committee, is noted as a champion of the ABM and as a rigid Nixon supporter. Fox has received the support of the Schenectady New DemQ- cratic Coalition and the Schenec- tady Clergy and Laymen con- cerned About Vietnam. He said that his opposition to the Viet- nam war «is the main issue of my campaign.\ Fox, Who is a .professor of mecJtanics, added that he had •grave doubts· as to the possi- bility of an effective ABM. I teac}l ~raduate courses in orbits and trajectories. This subject is one ot the basic theoretical tools needed in the (iesign of these devices, a.ild it is thiS kp.Qwledge which makes me belie,:v..e their promised sec~icy .of ~M Will be false,11 he stated. BliTHER HilJ:el has announee<i;.t~atthere will be a discussion .o~ .li!M.oses and Monot;heism\ tonigl,lt at 8.:00 p.m. at Skidmore, :fOllowed ,by a mixer. For trans po);--tation, · please contact Eric Miller, 154 Fox; Joe Schwartz~ 109 South; or George KapllJ.ll, 256 L>:;t,vidSon. The· .gr.pup will leave :frqm 109 South at 7 :00, , * * * * Mr. Ivan Boldizsar, editor of \The New Hungarian Quarterly,\ will speak on «T, V. aild social- ism, HungarianStyle\ onMo11day, April 27, at 7:45 p.m. in ss· 016, The talk is sponsored by the I.R.C. and. is part of its series, \Alternatives for American For- eign Policy.\ * * * * Lance Plunges into Fight Union College participated in the University of Roc}lester's annual Intercollegiate Bridge Tournament last weekend. The members of the team were Mike Fishman, Bill Woodard, Bob Lavin, and Dave Filman. Union placed second overall in the tour- nament. An open letter to Union students: As I approach graduation, I find that my marks alone will not ~et me into the med: school my mother would like m.e to get in. This being the case, I am forced to add extra-curricular activities to my record; So, my friends of Union, I now declare my candidacy for Student Body President. My grandfather and my father have both graduated from Colum- bia med-schoo~, and my entire family would DIE if I was rejected. It is not easy being from a family of d()ctors, especially when I want t() be a concert pianist. However, I have been promised a Jaguax.· if I don the medical whites, so medicine it will be, My future, my friends, is in your hands. I have nwer held any student office, makngme the only candidate not a. proven failure. As I have no ambition to change anything in the semi- academic life at Union, [ feel my thinking reflects current student desires. I do not desil'e power; frankly, I get nervous in front of groups; I can be easily manipu- lated. I have no interest ill student politics or the welfare of Union students; this is the only thing Tonight I have in common with the othe.r candidates. You know the Student Senate is nonsense, I know tha.t the Student Senate is nonsense; cannot we elect some person who will benefit from the office? I do not have the time to circulate those moronic peti- tions, so please write my name on the ballot and bathroom walls. After you l!ave kindly voted :for me, please add the name of my Vice-President, the generated~ veneered Lord Kirshner, whose mother would like him to be a lawyer. Please, my friends elect me! If I do not win, I will kill myself, ang my young blood will be on your hands. I:felected, my mother will be so relieved. YOUR HUMBLE SERV .ANr: > * * * * The nexlsessidno:fllieSfucfent- ' ' • Faculty Bridge Club will be held on April 28 at the Hale House Faculty Lounge at 8:00 P.M. All those interested in participating are welcome. DIAMANT£'$ Enjoy Ovr Fine Home Cooked Italian Food in Ou• C~mfortable Dininq Room Opp. The Brownell Gats on Nott St ... et Open Daily 10 to ·l A.M. Sundays S P.M. to 1 A.M .. LANCE FALDUCCIWITZ ,,_~--~--~~--------~--------. Sna·ke In Concert· SPRING MIXER BEN.EFI.T LOTUS NEXUS --· '-\- Fathers' Hall, iSkidmore· ., ·· ' ·- .. . ., ' $2.00 DONATIDII FREE BEER • 'I By J Five of dent Body an open fo Librar:y , fol\llm COl policy stai date, foll( answer pe Walt SJ;J thre.e P present to experienc last year President .Spencer c by the Se of tile Eas increase cexts .. ()nc cex hopes to carry calli pus years.\ His pri next yeaJ the mail I abolition, ment~. th dent Unio present :: cer also 1 in the a professoi advisors professoJ He recon numbe·r sors, atl• groupp o: sate for needed b number o posed ad· .these pro As a' Spencer prellensi intends i •whethel or not/' tlle rece service cer asst continuil Bill :C date for that the tra.nsitic constitui this trar RJ

CONCORDIENSIS, APRIL 2<1,. 1970 PAGE 3 Candidates Forum 2: Sound Ofl By Louis S. Snitkoff Five of the candidate~ for Stu- dent Body· office partic~pat~d in an open forum in the WestC()llege Librar:y Wednes<iay night. The fot'llm consisted of five-minute policy statements .by eacll. candi- date, followed :by a question and · answer period •. Walt Spencer;,.· the first of the th r·ee Presi<leritial candidates present to speak, emphaf;lized bis e:q>erienee as a Student Senator last year and as current Vice President of'Ui~, student body.· .Spencer cited tit~ prQgr,ess m,ad,e by the Se]Jat~ ;tbi::;; year in. terms of the Eass-FaU progratnandthe increase in the· number of con- certs on campus; lf elected, Spen- ·. cer hopes to «fiavetheopportunitY to carry on the work done on c a rn pus during the last two years.\ 1 · the Senate as being a \social body\ with representation being according to living units. The fault in this, according to Daw- Son, is that student arguments over academic matters lose their legitimacy when presented to the faculty due to lack •Of academic . representa:Uon. Another criticism is that most of tbe initiative in the Senate comes from officers or com- mittees and nearly none from the individual Senators. 111 0ff-campus · representation,\ argued Dawson, Mis a farce. It is impossible to conduct a reliable poll off cam- pus.\ INSURANCE Among the goals setbyDawson are to .improve housing facilities, to establistl insurance for per- sonal property 1 tQ allow student Senators to attendBoa:i'Q.ofTrus• tee me~tings 1 to see that the Benate acts closely with the Social Committee, especially with coed- ucation next year 1 and to estab- lish tighter r;;ecurity on campus. The third candidate, Alan Gyurko, cited as his credentials his position as proxy Senator and his involvement in p o li ti c a 1 grOl!PS such as the Social Action Committee and PYE. Gyurko' s platform hinges on the elimin- atiOn of all requirements for graduation. This would inclUde Comp Ed.J language and Com- prehensive Examinations. Those students, said Gyurko, who are interested in graduate school could still pursue dis- tinctly delineated majors. Gyurko also advocated a Student Union, new Gym facilities, a theater on campus ~d improved library facilities,. \Now!\ Jolm Witherspoon, the only Vice Presidential candidate present, asserted that the Vice Presidency is a \very powerful position. 11 He stated that the Vice President, who is an ex-officio member of allSenate.committeesJ should serve as a communica- tions link between the Senate and the committees. As secretary of the Committee on Committees and as a studentSenator, Wither- spoon has made many contacts which he feels wil!l be helpful to him as Vice President, if elected. His primary concern is the security problem, the elimination of many room keys circulating in the wrong hands, and keeping unauthorized people off campus and out of the do!\ms. He advo- cates a central mail room with an employee whose only job is delivering the maiL. DRAMA DEMAND Witherspoon also favors the institution of a d.l'ama majo~ .for which he feels there is \a legi- timate d·emand.~ He also expressed the needformoreSen- ate .support for tile Big Brother program, including more money to help finance ,l:b.e program's activities. The only Secretarial candidate p r e s e n t at the forum, Paul Pfingst, also concerned himself with the security problem. \The college,\ he said, \has not lived up to its respon.:sibility to protect the personal· pr<>perty of the stu- dents. n He a.dv<>cated the estai>'- lishment ()f:a. security committee to deal with :the is sue. Pfingst bel!ie-ves tllat the class Presidents a:.nd Vice :presidents should play :an important role in Senate ret-reserttation and the offices of cJass Secretary and Treasurer 'be abolished. Ideas in the SenatE should, according to Pfing:st, c110me from individual Senators as -well as the officers. He alse> favo()rs abolition of the language recjuirement and Com- prehensi.ve Exams which \cer- tainly do mt il:lelp the student.~· Pfingst wouLd like the Senate to assume a wore active .role on campus and he also supports the continuation of m a id service in the dorrnsa FREE SCHOOL His primary targets for action next year, should be win, are the mall problem on campus, the abolition of lang.uage requjre- ment~, the construction of a stu- dent Union·bililding and the ever- present securitY problem. Spen- cer also proposed a major change. in the advisor system. 41 Some professors~\ he said 1 •arebetteJ: advisors than others, so not all professors shol.lld be advisors.\ He recommended that a eertaiil n urnb er of professors be advi- sors, and have relatively large groups o:f advisees. To compen- sate for the 1 n c r e as e d time needed to deal with the larger number oradvisees, Spencer pro~ posed a decreased course load for . these professors. JOHNSON WANTS An important issue brought up during the cl..i s c us s i o n period which followEd -was tlle possibility of a free unl'\Jersityat Union. Walt Spencer advoca:.ted the establish~ ment of a se-paxate university on the Union campus withaseparate admiss.ions policy, limited ~onroLllll e11t, :and nor eq uirements. PUBLIC ACTION Students in this school could take courses pass-fail and do considerable i.ndependent study work. Gyurlc<>, ()n the other hand, said all of Union should be like the free WJi:-versity described by Spencer, witll a major difference being tllat tli.:<>se students wishing to attelldg;ra<duate school would be able to IJurs'tle normal major field .p r o g: r a·ms . All other students would .h2vea.b.s<>lutely no require- ments,. nor a minimum cumula- tive index:. NO COMPS As a political science major, SIJencer is concerned about Com- prehensive Examinations, and he intends to push for their abolition \whether I al)l el~cted President or not/' Finally, commenting on tlle recent decision to end maid service in the dormitories, Spen- cer asserted be was in favor of continuing the maid service. Bill Dawson, a second candi- date for the top position, believes tlla.t the college is in a state of transition, and he cited the new constitution as a major factor in this transition. Dawson criticized THE RED\ FOX 123 JAY ST. A Quiet Place To Dine 1:0% off on Dinners Thur., Fri., Sat. N;ight 'pollution' is not the whole oi the environmental problem.\ 111 Today, for too many people, the environmental problem is noise and crowding. It's garbage piling up pi halls and alleyways, it's rat~ and insects and crumbling, unsanitary housing. It's highways-and unsafe cities -and unplanned suburbs,\' he said, Though the vast majority of his audience was middle-aged and appear.ed well-to~do, Mr. John- son credited young people with recognizing, •:tar 'b e tt e r th~ most of the people of my own generation, that the problems of pollution and urban decay and wasted resources are closely r e 1 at e d to other social and economic problems of our time.\ An «antis Vietnam-er\' and an opponentoftbesupersonictrans- port (SST) and anti-ballistic missiles (ABMs), Mr. Johnson regretted that •at this time we qo not have a majority of the population\ able to convince the Administration that th~ present conduct of the Vietnam War con- tributes to the social and econ- omic problemS of our times;' • Advoc11.titlg that citizens con- cerned about environmental deg),'a~ation make tbeir com- GRAPHICS AN EXHIBITION & SALE pre$ented by r• LONDON GRAFICA ARTS \.11 a member of the London Arts Group More than 400 original etching$, lithographs, woodcuts, arid screenprints including works by: CALDER, CHAGAL.L, PICASSO, VASARELY, REMBRANDT and LONDON ARTS' PUBLICATIONS originals .from $1 o to $4000 UNION COLLEGE Old Chapel ~onda¥.- April 27 10· a.m. -· 5 p.J;U. CONTINUED FROM P-1 plaints known to their represen- tatives in Washington, Mr. Jolm- son admitted that \there are still too many satisfied souls who continue to wonder what the noise and shouting !U'e ali about, who can't understand how any- one can find flaws in a coWltry Senate Debates Tax Committee CONTINUED FROM P-1 term bike, and the Social Com- mittee urged the Senate to raise the fee by $5.00 per term. Both proposals will be considered at the next meeting, after dis- cussions in the living units. Prof. Charles Gati, Chairman of the Faculty-Student Com- mittee on HoD,orary Degrees and Special Events, outlined the Foundersl Day program for the Senators. The program, to be held May 6 and 7, will mark the College's 175tb aiiJliversary. On May 6, James A.. Perkins, for- mer president of Cornell Univer- sity, will address the College. Classes will be cancelled on May 7 to permit a series of panel discussions concerning \what higher education in this country and at Union is and should be,\ to take place throughOut the day, according to Gati. The .Serlafe voted to send a «.strongly worded statement\ to President Martin and the Faculty Council expressing resentment that classes could be easily sus- ' pended on this occasion, but not for such past events as the Vietnam Moratorium or the . mourning of the assassU1ation of prominent men. On those occasions, students felt the class suspensions .necessary but were turned down by the admin- str~tion. S en at or s were also upset that c las s e s were sus- pended without consulting the student body~ Neve~eless, the Senate expressed strong suppOrt for the J,\ounders 1 Day progt<ain. with a GNP (gross national pro- duct) of $932 billi1>n.\ But in order to clean up the environment, \changes have to be phased 1 ogically and practically ••• we aren't going to accomplish anything by putting p-eople out of business.\ Because of student-initiated public out- cry, the government has had a lot of cooperation ftom the auto- mobile, airline 7 and petroleum industries, he said. \This Administration believes strongly in getting the environ- ment job done without addi- tional federal legislation,\ Mr. Johnson added. Other candidates for student body CJfiice not present at the forum due to previous engage- ments were: Terry McManus, 4 71, Fresident; Ken Jacoby, '71, Vice-Presi(ieni; Geoff Walker, '73, Vice Fresident; and Tom Huppucll, '7'2 1 Secretary. Inter- views withMcNanus, Jacoby and Huppucll will appear in the next issue CJf CO~C()RDIENSIS. DOUGLAS Your Headquf!rlers For Fashion Footwear BOSTONIAN* BATES* WALL-STREETER HUSH PUPPIES * WALK-OVER * SEBA.GO-MOCS MAf\ISFIELD *SNOW & AFTER Sl<l BOOTS Phone FR 4-8577 319 State Stree l Schenectady, N.Y. $1 OFF' PURCHASE OF SIJOF::S UPON PRESENTATION 0~' I.IL CARl) ( ATTE~TIO\ :-;E:\.IOHS Caps & Gown.• mea!-11lfi'IIU~rtl.!-' now ht~in~ lakt>n at the lJocJkstol i , line ':if 1(70 Peter Pause 535 Nott S:treet

PAGE 4 CONCORDIENSJS, APRIL 24, 1970 ~oncordy Sports Brown Leaves Union To A;c,c:ept Rochester :Post Lax Dumps Hamilton By Bill Holleran Gary Brown, one of the most versatile athletes in Union Col- lege history, and since 1967 a three-sport coach for the Dutch- men, will leave the college in June to become varsity soccer and freshman basketball coach at the University of Rochester. stepped down to bead the u. ofR. intramural program while J3ruce Brown has been ,coaching while doing graduate work, now com- pleted. Jim Sabella, Norm Stavin and Wayne Christie led an awesome Garnet attack as the Dutchmen rebounded from last weekend's loss to Hobart in fine style, pummeling hapless Hamilton on Wednesday afternoon, 16-0. The win upped Union's record to 3-1. attack or middie was covered by ' The Dutchmen. w:nl go a:fter two, or sometimes three,. Garnet their fourth Vl'iil ot the season on Saturday afternoon, hosting Alfred starting at z:oo P.M. on Daley Field. Brown is a native of Roches- ter and coached the Yellow Jacket fveshman soccer and baseball teams while doing grad- uate work in 1966-7. He has a master of arts degree from the University of Rochester. Brown was the first three- sport captain in the history of athletics at Union. In his senior year, 1964-5, he headed the soccer, basketball and baseball teams, leading the latter to the NCAA Atlantic Coast regional college division title. Union College athletic director George Flood illdicated that the search for a successor to Brown would begin immediately and that the new coach would head the varsity soccer and fl•eshmanbas- ketball programs. Nets Fall To Middlebury By Dennis Alsofrom Sabella pumped in goals in each p e r io d to lead the Garnet's assault. He notched his first tally midway through the first stanza, after Wayne Christie put a beauti- fUl move on a Hamilton defender to feed Sabella all alone in front of the Continental net. Sabella scored again at 6:25 of the second period on a pass from Mark Sanderson, added his third goal at 3:08 of the third quarter, and completed his four goal effort at 14:25 of the final period, pushing the rebound of Barry Gross' shot past the bewildered Hamilton netminder. defenders. So complete was Union's dom- ination of play in the, early moments of the contest that Gar- net goalkeeper Ed Green did not have to make a save until 1:59 remained in the opening period. In all, Green and his substitute goalkeeper t Bob Erlandson, were tested on oilly a handful of shots. Although Coach Bruce Allison was 11 generally pleased 11 with the team's improvement after the embarrassing Hobart loss, he noted that the Garnet were still not sharp in seve11al areas of the game, notably picking up ground balls. Allisont however, seemed to enjoy the game aS much as his players and the fans, substituting freely and talking it up constantly with his bench and the players on the field. In freshmen lacrosse action Wednesday, the Garn.et yearlings ~ell before a pQW!Elr:ful Cortland squad in Co:i;'tland, 1:8-1. The loss dropped the Garnetrs record: to 1-l. Graubart & Sons may run small ads, but they have big values. Schen~ctody'~ famous d•omond ~nop, J; for thre.·e g<enerat1ansl ·'· .. 166 Joy St. \. Three Unllln Graduafe5. in Famity. · · · . . -- He has been coaching at Union since the fall of 1967. As head soccer coach he has a three- year record of12-17-3;as fresh- man basketball coach, his teams were 22-25 in three seasons and his freshman 1 a c r o s s e teams were 11-6 over two years. Union's tennis team suffered an 8-1 shellacking Tuesday at the hands of a powerful Middlebury racket squad. The only victory for the Garnet came long after the match was decided, and was recorded by the number one doubles team of Jeff South and Stu Fishier. The score .of this match reflects the struggle involved in the 9-'7, 10-12, 6-3, three set win. Stavin and Christie also had productive afterno.ons for the Garnet, with Stavin tallying three •••••••••••••••••••••••••••• times and Christie contributing a Brown replaces Bill Boomer as soccer coach and Bruce Brown (no relation) as freshman basket- ball head. Boomer, soccer coach for the past three seasons, Mound Woes Strike Bats A spate of serious injuries struck the Garnet baseball team's pitching staff this week, severely damaging Coach Art Lawrence's hopes for improvement upon last season's 7-3 mark. Left-hander Larry Berkeley, who was to be the anchor man on the G a r n e t mound staff this spring, has developed a bad arm and may not pitch for the rest of the season. Berkeley started Union's spring opener against Siena and picked up the win in the sloppily played 17-8 Garnet victory. John Siedlecki, a promising fre-shman who pitched strongball but absorbed the defeat in Union's 6-5 loss to Drew, has also been unable to throw because of :,). bad arm. The Garnet's pitching staff, a question mark to begin-With at the season's start, is now even more of a problem. With the loss of Berkeley and Siedlecki, Lawrence is left with only one experienced hurler, Kevin Coyne, and freshman Hank Lambert. Lawrence, however, is confi- dent that he can fill the void by moving Dale Long in from short .. stop and Bob M itch e 11 from second base. Because Long and Mitchell pitched while in high school, Lawrence is optimistic that the two can adjust. Long did well in his first outing last Weekend against Stevens, picking up the win in relief. The rainy weather this week resulted in the postponements of both Wednesday's W i 11 i am s' game and yesterday's Rochester contest. The Dutchmen will next be in action on Tuesday,< April \28 hosting the Engineers of RPI on Alexander Field. The rest of the match was very disappointing. The t e am played well but was completely outclru;;sed by the powerful Pan- thers. Jeff South, Stu Fischler, and Fred Kaplan all went downin straight sets to their powerful foes. Previously Wlbeaten Ken Groo- ver also suffered a straight set defeat, as did Bob Mandrey and Ernie Guillet. Guillet was also undefeated until this match. The remaining doubles teams of Gillette and Groover, and Man- drey and Kaplan also dropped their matches in straight . sets. . The netmen hope to bounce back against Hamilton this afternoon at hom·e. goal and four assists. Bruce Dugan had two goals for the Dutchmen, as did Sanderson, while Stan White, Steve Ciesin- ski, Rich Swan and Barry Gross each tallied once for Union. Gross' goal came as a big relief to the sophomore attack- man, as he had hit the post and missed several times on close- in chances ~efore scoring late in the second period. The Garnet wasted no time in getting on the scoreboard as Christie tallied after only 2:07of play. The Dutchmen owned a 4-0 lead after the first quarter, an 8-0 blllge at the half, and a 12-0 margin after three quarters. The Dutchmen methodically dominated play from the opening faceoff, stick-checking andbody- checking fiercely from the start. Union's midfielders,especiallyJ did a great job of hawking Con- tiQental ball-carriers. Rarely did more than a few seconds elapse b e.f ore a ball-toting Hamilton Wood, Jaszczak, McCabe- Lead Cinders To Trinity Tie By Greg Hamlin Relying on their overwhelming superiority in therunningevents, the Upjon College track team managed a 70-70 tie with Trinity College on Wednesday, Going into the last two events, th~ Garnet neede : '\Iirteen of the final four- teen mts in erder to gain the sta Af. . by a 1-2 finish by Paul JS and Joe Burgess in the ·mile, and a convincing vic- . Jry in the mile relay' the thin- clads avoided what had seemed an almost inevitable defeat. The Dutchmen were hapless in the field competition, managing only 21 out of a possible 63 points in these events. The only bright spot for the Garnet was a sweep of the pole vault, led by Gray Watkins's 13' victory 1 and a first place heave in the shot put by soph. Dick Thickens. doubled in the 220 and 440, and also anchored tne victorious mile relay quartet. Jaszczak, Tim McCabe, Geoff Walker, and Pete Ericson also ran wen for the Garnet. Jaszczak moving up to the 880 because of a troublesome hamstring injury, easily won his race in 2:01.9. Freshman McCabe finis h·e d second in the 440 intermediate hurdles, an event which he was running for the first time in his life. The red-headed speedster brolte an old Un1on College record · in that event, clocking a 59.1. Walker ~d Ericson finished l:!ehind Wood in the 440 and also ran legs on the winning mile relay team. In addition, Ericsoncopped a third in the 220,. while Walker finished in back of two T;rinity athletes. in the triple jump. ANYMANCAN GET BUSHED ••• and do It without a. safari; either. Simply slip intoo.ur < sport-worthy bush jacket and ftead out into a summer well-dressed. < The workmanship is superior, the fabric tough, the look virile as ever. ' Get bushed, While the sizes are all still in stock. .amQr . a ... ~.quire ~bnp· ···. 420 STATE STREET, 377·3061 Steve Wood was the most out- standing runner in the meet. The so P\h o more, running in All- American Rick Jaszczak' s stead, The Garnet will open their home season with a dual meet against St. Lawrence this Satur- day at Alexander Field. Meet · time is 3:00P.M. ••••••••••••••••••••••••••• ... - - Tf. So Cc \'h wi ar• Ot $8 Qj A Ch profE aw.a istra Am a for <Jr to .p next swa1 Hl c. By 'll EUl'C of a .upda }IUD! lette ss 0 lv day~ both ver. anti Wox sec: He Hun of< P.E . a.tic c \<>ll tha1 WeE ser HUI lea me

!r Jn 'fo., lg Jn ::m gs od ss to ~ \ ... Founded at Union College 1877 VOLUME 99, NO. 53 SCHENECTADY. NEW YORK, APRIL 28, 1970 PR!CE TWENTY CENTS T/lts Saturday Night, May 2, 1970 the Union College Social Committee will present the lirst Parents• Weekend Ca>r1cert. This year, the ·great LIONEL HAMPTON, \\ICING OF THE VIBES\ and \'MASTER OF THE DRUMS\ will be featured in Memorial Chapel at 8:30 P.M. Tickets are available in every dorm and at the Student AcHvities Ofiice. The price of ti.ckets is $3.00 in advance and $3,50 at the door. Student Body General Elections Tomorrow Elections for allStudentSenate offices Will take place tomorrow, April 29, in every dormitory and fraternity house on campus. All students must vote in their living unit. Voting in the fraternities will take place at dinner. The polls will be open in the dorms from 5 to 10:30 p.m. A:ll resi- dents of North College must vote in West College, and all fi'ater~ nity pledges must vote in their dorm, NOT at the house. All students living off campus may vote in the Student Activities Office which will be open ALL DAY from 9:00a.m. to 5:00p.m. To win the election to a particu~ lar o f fi c e, a candidate must receive a majority of the votes cast for that office. Should a run~ off election be necessary for any position, the election will be held in the same manner on Thursday, April 30. The candidates in tomorrow's election are: President, Walt Spencer ''12, Alan Gyurko '72, Terry McManus ''il, and Bill Dawson '71; Vice president, Ken Jacoby 171, John Witherspoon '73, and Geoff Walker • '13; Secretary, P au 1 Pfingst • '73 and Tom Huppuch •72. The candidates willbe pre- sen ted tonight at 10:30 on WRUC. Your questions will be answered by those running for office .after preliminary statements. The WRUC number is 393-8650. Mounties, Orchestra Plan Parents' Weekend Shows The Mountebank.s and the Nor-theastern New York Student Orchestra both will perform this coming weel\end. The perfor- mances, in concert and on stage, represent one of the most cul- tural weekends on record, The Northeastern New York Student. Orchestra will be play- ing for Parents Weekend again this year, with a concert set for :Friday night, M,ay 1st at 8:30 in Memorial Chapel. :M:r. Gosselin k, musical director at SUNY Agricultural and Technical College in Cobles- kill, will conduct tile following program: \Festival Overture\ by Shostakovich; \Youth Piano Con- eertow by Kabalevsky, featuring this year's concerto winner, Mark T1Jcker; and Dvorak's •New World Symphony\. The Mountebanks first play of the Spring Term will be added to the 1 is t of activities already scheduled for Parents Weekend, April 30, May 1, and 2. \The Promise,\ by Russian Play- wright Aleksei .Arbuzov, will be directed by sophomore C h r is- topher Kennedy. The play is about three young Lenin g r ad e r s who meet in a derelict apartment during the German siege of that city in 1942, The play then follows the relationships of the two boys and one girl, played by Rich Mendoza, Steve Katz, and Lois Kelly, over the next eighteen years. Olton Awarded Special Grant To Study Edward Gray, a Sophomore, is concertmaster and librarian for the orchestra. Bob Hinden, who plays bass, is the orchestra's manager, and Stephen Rathje, clarinetist and folk sjnge r, is assistant to the Conductor, other Union members o:f ·the orchestra are Robert Berg;er, Charles Gl'agg, Derek Janzen, Keith Kib- ler and Douglas Wo11g, Arbuzov was born in 1908, and bas written over a dozen plays. THE PROMISE was performed over 16.00 times in 66 .theaters in the Soviet Uni(ln in the first year of publication, 1965, and had a very successful run in London. On Thursday and Friday even- ings, performances will begin at 8:30 p.m.; on Saturday, there will be a matinee only, beginning at 2:30 p.m. Union students will be admitted free, their dates for 75~ and all others for $1.50. Tickets go on sale Monday, in the box office in Nott Memorial Theater from 1 to 5 p.m. Academic Administration at Swarthmore Chal'les s. 01 ton, assistant professor of bistory 1 has been aw.a.rded an academic admin- istra--tion f:e 11 ow s hip by the American council on Education for the 1970-71 school year. Olle of 36 educators selected to .participate in this program next year, he will be working at Swarthmore College attached to the President's ,office. Professor Olton has been a member of the faculty since 1965 1 and for the :Past two years has been director of the comprehen- sive education program. For six months, in 1968, he filled in as acting dean of students, A graduate of Wesleyan University with a doctorate i'rom Hu:ng.arian Man o.f Letters c,aus His Homeland ~open' By :Neil $. KrameJ 'l'ae familiar image of Eastern Eul'()pean nations as \puppets\ of a Stalinistic Soviet Russia was updili:ed and modified by a lea(iing llungarian jotrenalist .and man of lettel:'s who sp<:>~e last night in ss ()16. lvan Boldizsar is spending four days here, visiting classes as botll a participant and an obser• ver. He was a member o:f the anti-Nazi Resistance during World War TWo and was Under- sec~etary ofState after the war. He is the editor of 11 The New Hll!lga:rlan Quarterly\ and is head of the Hungarian section of P.E.N., the international associ- . ati()ll of writers. One example of the relative rzopenness\ of Hungarian society that Mr. Boldizsar noted was a week .. long open:.line television series ·that reached fully half of Hunga.ryii.s 10 million people. Top leaders of the :Hungarian.govern- ment and Communist Party answered questions that ranged from economic p()licy, the War- saw Pact intervention in Czecho- slovakia, and nurses' salaries to why Hungarian-produced movies do not have naked women. Unlike a campaign program of a ~imilar format tbat Richard Nixon presented when he was running for President in 1968, all questions that were phoned in were read on the air in a series o:f three hour sltows. But Mr. Boldizsar emphasized that although Party and government officials felt they could not ans• wer be c au s e of the sensitive or secret subjects involved, none were edited out, as were unfriendly questions in Mr. Nixon's campaign show. This open-line program in 1969 was remarkable within Mr; Boldizsar;s lifetime. \ltemem- bet that before 1949, Hungary was not the paragon of parlia- mentary democracy. Quite the contrary/' he said. the University of California at Berkeley, he is a specialist in American colonial and Revolu- tionary War history. Professor Olton is active with the American Civil Liberties Union, serving a.s chairman of the Capital Dis.trict chapter and as a member of the boardofdirectors of the New York branch of the ACLU. The American Council on Education Fellowship is an in- service program for educators to give them first hand experi .. ence in observing and parti- e i p at in g in the decision rpakmg process in high education. 1\,CE .reports that '75% ofthe participants in the fir..s t four years of the six-year-old pro· gram presentlY :llave positions in the academic administration of colleges and universities. College-Wide Blood Drive Continues in Gymnasium The Union College Blood Drive began today with what was termed a \lukewarm turnout\. Vol- unteers from the Red Cross had hoped to fill a quota. of 600 pints from the 1700 -member college community, The Bloodmobile was stationed at Alumni Gym and will resume its activities the r e beginning at 11:00 tomorrow. According to officials, no parental consent is r e q u i r e d to be a donor, and doctors are on .hand to assess the medical advisability o:f donations on an individual basis, Pop Culture Coming In the past the performances of Union in responding to area Blood Drives have not been outstanding. A 300-pint a day quota must be filled in order for supply to keep up with the ever increasing local needs. A recent breakthrough in the science of serology, that of providing special treatment to hemophiliacs, has put a new strain on local blood supplies. In order for the special research to be continued into the mechanics of blood-clotting, blood of all types must be made available to the researchers. The Red Cross has taken on the obligation ofprovid- ·ing the needed blood. Pop CUlture Week, •an excit~ ing anl;l different week of activities\ ranging trom a wine and cheese party to rock groups to an all day art show, will take place May 3-10. The happening's activities are SJ?Onsored by the Social Committee, the Office of Residence Programs, Film Haps, the IFC, the Newman Club, the May 9th Conspiracy, WRUC, and the President's Office. Sunday-5/3 \The Graduate\ SS016 3, 7, 9:15 Monday-5/4 rtA Day at the Races\ SS016 7,. 9:15 Tues.-5/5 \The Kinetic Art\ SS016 '1, 9:15 , Friday-5/8 Art Show all day: \The Fifth Horseman Is Fear\ SS 0.16 4:30, s, 10; \Look Back In Anger\-Nott Mem. 8:30; Con- cert-Dance Group to be announced, 11:30 library Plaza. Sat.a5/9 ArtShow allday, \May 9 Be In!~> LIBRARY PLAZA 1:00- 6:00, featuring DREAMS- N. Y's best tock-ja~z band. 5 student acts from Paul Simon's Recording and Composing class. FOOD & GAMES. \What's N!i!W, :Pussycat;, 7, ~:15 SS016 \Look Back. in Anger\ 8:30 Nott Mem. Sun.-5/10 Wine & Cheese Party 2:00., Jackson's Gu-dens featur- ing TOM CHURCH, Union folk- singer. \Citizen Kane\ 4, 7, 9:15 SS016, The Red Cross guarantees that a donation of blood here at Union assures you and your immediate family of having all oftheirblood needs met, lnanypartofthe coun- try. In a meeting several weeks ago the Student Senate endorsed the Blood Drive and urged all stu- dents to take part. They heard Jim Denney '73, who is co- ordinating the dl'ive, stress the need for a complete response. Union Students should be reminded, a source close to the Blood Drive said, of the words of biologist Dr. Arnold Purdett, who said, \Blood may be red, but its all American.\

PAGE 2 CONCORDIENSIS, APRIL 28, 1970 DISHONORABLE The present system of honors may contain inequities, but the proposal presented by the Committee on Honors is certainly not the answer. We agree with the Senate's rejection. The present English honors areunfair. Unlike most Center I majors, science maJors do not have a thesis or comps as graduation require- ments. Under the present system, where English honors are awarded by department recommenda- t-ion based on research work, the science rnajor winning honors must do work that is different from that required. Although many of the top science students choose to do research, it is by no means a requirement. The present system requires that men in Center I achieve a \pass with distinction\ on their comps. These examinations are presently under attack and will hopefully be dropped. We tbipl{ that such a requirement for honors is unfair. Honors in Latin are based onafour-yea:rcumula- tive average. Why should English honors be based on the performance on a single examination? Nevertheless, we feel that the outline of a dual honors system, as is now in effect, is the best of any of the proposals. But we do feel that there should be some changes to remove the ' inequities we have just outlined. This can be best established as the Committee on Honors suggested in its report, if the requirements for English honors are decided on a department- by-department basis. Union men have a voice in almost every department already, and it is time this be expanded campus-wide. We are confident that students and faculty can work within each discipline to define a system that best suits their needs. We totally agree with Jim Lieb' s open letter~ printed on this page. which denounces proposed elimination of general Latin honors above CUM LAUDE. This was the chief bone of contention upon which the Senate rejected the proposal~ and we agree with the Senate's sentiments. We add our voice to those urging the Faculty Council to reject the proposed changes. This issue points up the real lack of student power in academic affairs. If the Faculty Council should approve the proposal of all the student objections, there would be nothing short of a sit-in that could produce any action. Since the anti-twelve points demonstration of Spring, 1968 there has been talk on this campus about the establishment of an All- C o 11 e g e Academic Council to parallel the All-College Council. We feel it is about time that .such a body came into existence. It is probably too late to do that job this year, but if we start the motions now, maybe the ACAC will be function- ing before another spring has come and gone. In a little more than a week, the campus will celebrate Founders' Day with an examination of the future of the college. One of the topics to be discussed is how we can \Prevent Another Columbia.\ A priEcipal way is to continue the so-called \quiet revolution.\ If students come to see that they really have no control over their academic lives, then all the freedom they enjoy over their personal lives will be a sham. There has been enough dilly-dallying •. The ACAC should be established now. Published T u e s d e. y and Friday during the School- . year by the Student Body of Union College, Schenec- tady, N.Y. National Adver- tising Representative National Educational Advertising Service, Inc., College Publishers Repre- sentative, 360 Lexington Avenue, N.Y.C. Editorial Ofrice, Old Gy111, Union College Publication Oftice, The World Publica· tions; 771 State St., Schenectady, N.Y. 12307, 346-2356. Entered in the Scbenectady Post Office as Second Class Mail Matter Subscription 20 cents a copy. $6 a year delivered anywhere in tb.e United States. Henry G. Fein William Ouzer Editors-in..Cbief Peter J, Weingold ........................ Managing Editor Lloyd· Burns ............ \ .................. Business Manager William J. Holleran ...................... Sports Editor Jody Saslow ............................... Photography Editor Me Paul Andrews ••••••••••••••••••••••••• Contributing Editor Richard Pattersoo ........................ Contri&uting Editor Letters to the Editors ded to observe the anniversary of the ~llege, but attempts to sec'Qr;e tb.e suspension of classes to cmserve equally serious events such as the assasstnations of natiori..al leaders or th.e Vietnam Moratorium were aJ.w;.l:ys refused primarily by the President.,Some e x: c us e to deny the students• request was always fouri.d. Editors' Note: TW.S. letter was left with the Concordy before Mr. Lieb left for ViellDa. Before his departure Mr, Lieb was a mernbE!r of the committee on llortors. He asked that it. be f)rinted as an open letter to tile student body in the eventuality that the committee submitt9P! i;he propo.sals .that were ·then being formulated. Th<)Se proposals were submitted, and tb.us Concordy 'Prints Mr. Lieb's statemen.t. * * * * Dear Professor Reece: As I shall be leaving for Vienna shortly, I wish to s11bmit certain suggestions for a m end ill g the joint Latin-Departmelli:al llonors system <lUtlined in the lionor.s Committee's report. ( 1) Expansion of \\G e'n e r a 1 Studies\ degrees to include: Cum laude in General Studies :LVIagna. cum laude in General StudieS Summa cum la.ud-e in General Studies This · would replace current Latin Honors and would more fully agree with the role of honors set down in the report. (2) Retention of tll.e gradated program of DepartmentalHonors with latin nomenclature~ (3) It should be ll o ted that, under this system as under the old, more Center I studellts may receive honors til.atl. 'Center II students. However; Center nstu- I dents would not be eliminated from high honors as would be the case without the extension of \General Studies\ degrees. Rather I mo)7e Center r students would be receiving high honors with departmental sta.tus attached. If an inequality ex::ists, it is inherep:t j.n the pr:o:posal and may be eliminated in onl;y one of two fashions: (a) elimination o:f!lon-required thesis (or related project) in evaluation of Center I students• eliglbiJ.ity !or Departmental Honors, or (b) inclusion of a similarly weighted non-reqttired project ior Center II students. The committee\ s plan., when accompanied ,by my prop9sed am.endments, performs two functions set down in the report: (1) elimination of .-duplication~ between the two existing .pro· grams and (2) increasing of par· ticipation in the honors program. The iilstitution of such a pro- gram lies upon three value judg-· ments: (l)are there \needless\ duplications between the c11rren:t programs, (2) should more l'!tu- dents be ;brought into the program and (3) is the,re any actual inequality (i.e.-doe$ the differ- ence m requirements between depar.tments necessitate inequal- ity) in the present system? I believe, (1) the \duplication\ is inherent .in the system (those who tend to gather laurels in a field of study gather laurels.in general study), not harmful, and only covered-up by the establishment of a dually composed tit!,e; (2) more students should be brought into the honors system, since an increase in attainable goals may precipitate an increru;;e in goal seekers, hence .increasing energy exerted on the part of Union students. (If this tatter principle is false, I doubt ,there is any purpose to creating an honors system. If there is a possibility it is true, we should continue supporting the honors structure.)r and (3) I do not know H the inequality actually exists, although I tend to believe it does. Since, under point 1, it makes little difference which program exists, I believe the new sys- tem should be instituted to pro-, vide the advantages of point 2. If the committee determines that an inequality does exist, amend- ment along the lines of my third proposal should be worked into the prqg~am, JAMES LIEB 4 72 To President Martin 'a.ild the Faculty Councii: While we heartily endorse the Founders' Day program which has been announced, and feel it a very creative, valuable pro- gram, we are very disturbed to note: .A-Classes were easily suspen- B·Iil this case, classes wer,e suspended without any prior con- sultation with elected represen- tatives of the student bOdy. Tltis action was taken With tlle consent of ~hE) Faculty Councit as well. Students on the FacU!ty:- .. student Committee w hi c 1\ pla.mied tbe events were picked'bY the Faculty m eJ:n:b e r s on the tblnm~ttee, themsel:Ves appointed 1 by the President. As such;· -these stu- dents can h.a:rdly be ca•iled \stu- -dent :t.epresentatives'~, :out rather ex:te)lsions of f:!i~ coll~ges admin- istrative bu:reaucracy. tt s e ~ins clear from this ex:ample ·that students have no say whatsoever in the,suspension of classes. '!.'he President, often alone and .sometimes ill concert With the :faculty council, decided when and if classes WE)re sus .. pended. This power: is wieldeq arbitrarily. On. occa$ions when students, and some :f.li.culty, fel~ strongly that classes should be suspended,. the President Fe fused and no amom1t of pressure or debate couldchangethatdecision. Yet, on an essentially trivial- by comparison-question as the College's birthday, the ·deciaion to suspend is made quickly, and again without regard for Student opinion. It would appear that an attitude of mistaken priorities and disregard for espous.ed con- cern for student opinion govern the decision to suspend ciasses. No doubt, had students been c.ons ulte d, they Wolild have approv~ the recommendation to s us pend classes. But student opinion can not be taken for . granted, e spec (ally since the college has not yet consistently demonstrated its recognition of the students' right to , consulta• tion on m a tt e r s of . college governance and policy. Concerning the questionofstu- dent representation on the Com- mittee on Special Events; we feel that a more representative way of choosing these students, such as election by the Senate, must be found. · Winter lt1 Bogota Eualuated T rauel Proued Educational THE STUDENT SENATE To the Editors: Thank you for your article and support of our second annual Spring Fever Clambake. BY THOMAS MOR.ANTE The Department of Modern Languages held a pan.el dis- cussion last Tuesday morning dealing with the expel.\iences of students who participated in the Comprehensive Education Pro- gram in Bogota. Among the problems discussed was the difficulty students encou nt.er ed when :faced with Colombian civilizatioa and cul- ture colll'ses taughtbypr()fessors who used too extellSive a Spanish vocabulary. One panel member stated that, •Many sttide11ts were forced to drop colll'ses or obtain help from their ad:visor; Pro- fessor Bristol, bEcail.Se of the difficulty in understanding the lectures.\ A.Jl the panel members agreed that their education would have been more meaningful had they attended classes with·native Colombian students. American movies. Travel proved to be one of the best forms of education, for it afforded the students an oppor- tunity to mix with the Colombian p eo p 1 e and their civilization. Ricbard Gross commented that busses and hitchhiking were the most effective modes of trans- portation; in addition the air- lines had many package deals to :fly students to any destina:- tion. The panel concluded that the Colombian experience, in addition to leading to an educa- tionill. and beneficial understand• ing of :f()reigners, wasbothmem- orable and hi g h 1 y enjoyable. Students interested in next year's Winter Program should contact Mrs. AstiZ for .prelimi- nary application forms. The Clambake was E$tremely successful. There was a good crowd of over 600, ~d more than enough foOd and 'drink for everyQne ~o J,mve their'· fUl. The net proceeds of the Clambake approach $400, and wtll be fOr- warded to the Walla~e Village Fotjndation-a llome · fdr· mini- mally retarded children in Boulder, Colorado. Vie would like to ~~end our . -_ -' -' ,·:_,. thanks to aU whose support belpeci' make the ciia,Dbake' a success. Vie would like.especi- ally to thank the s.taff of . . . '( WRUC, the Maintenance Depart- mellt, ' Concordiensis; • 'and the IFC, ~qr their help ait~ 1 ~upport. Thanks, ,r . ~e Brothers o:t}~~~ma Chi ;):< ! L U IG.I 'tS R E.S 1' A U R A N T SP!ECIALIZING IN Italian • llmerlcan l\oocf I 126 BARRETT ST. Schenectady Dl 6-9744 ~njoy Sizzling Steaks and Chops 1 Visit Our Cockt~il B~r Another panel member talked about his Colombian \family\, and he described them as •warm and affectionate.'~ Families pro- vided many cultlil'a.l. and social activities for th.e students, rang- ing from huge family reunions to museum and parlt visits in the city of Bogota, :SOgota, like any other big city, offers a diverse c u lt il r a 1 experience~ With its 'L....:.N;.;;e.:.n.:.._.:.s.:..·~.:.~;;.;.;.~;;;;;me;.:.;.;l'·;..·,.··-··-·-·· ... •••• ... •• ... :·\!.\: ... ~·~~·~:~:·\!.\~\!.\·:\!.\:\!.\~':\~'!\~t'!\~\!:\:\!'\.E'!\.m'!\_ e'!\. r'!\~i'!\~u'!\.s~: ':!:\~ \!\'. \!\'. ~-· .~ .• , !.?~~o Nactonal, ~ well as its BY DOU Ken J!i puch, ~~ Alan Gy Vice Pr• the Stuc:l~ And Te1 also anru :Presidei KenJ: ing a S~u the Stu• alternati people should tables ru ~ Albru dentUni of use, favor betting: a memt ·Action< There SUNY a: day .nigl p.m., th enoughi it. Turr Inforx reserva a..ril. Fr ties Off The' will joi rigals evening Chapel. enUmsi: present Vassar Debuss: Com1 finanei: in the I day, M: Prot\ the Am staff w AND 'i Mondal SS016. Ana' experii electri establi and cc (:reneJ enginel The Award majori .ing at strat sehola pender in the ics. 11 The late I pionee ampli: for tl pany, accidE THI

) 1 1 t :i .. e d r e n d lt li ·S .- ·n .. l• l• el LY lh st md llal ely >Od 1re for ~he lke )i'- lge ni- in )ur ort ' a ICi- Of :rt- the lrt. Chi McManus, Huppuch, Jaco~y Now ln Race BY DOUG WONG Ken Jacoby, 1 71, and.TomH1,1p .. puch, 1 '12,. are teaming up with Alan Gyurko. for the offices , o:f Vice Preside!l~ .and Secretary !>f the Stuc:ient .-s.en.ate, res~ctively. And Terry McManus, '71, .. has also aDROI!n.Ced llis CandiQa.cy for President. \·' : Ken Jacoby is in ~vor of.J>uild- ing a S~ndenp;J)\ion. He feels that the Student U)J,ion will 'Qe an alternl}.tive . place for meetin.g people to t\l,e Rathskeller~ It should be .!j!quipped witn pool tables and T, V,.l:!:i, etc. Hepoint!;ld ~~ Albany State where the Stu- dent Union is getting· a great. deal of use. Ken .Jaco:by is also in favor Of \legalizing off-track betting at UniQli. 11 Jacoby has been a member Of U:ae Student Social ·.Action Committee and a floor rep. . BLITHER There will be a bus going to SUNY and Bk,idJDoreeverysatur- day night, leaving Union at 6·:45· p.m., throngn ~ay 23, if there is enough interest to justify running it. Turnout has b.een -low to date. J;nformation is avllilabte, and reservations must be made by 10 a.m. Friday ~t the Student Activi- ties Office. * * * * Gy.urko approached Tom Hup- puch about running for Secretary. Huppuch describes Gyurko as a \ll:ttle unstable, but he's got good ideas. He is an a dv o c·a te .of eliminating requirements at Union. He ·compared Union with prep school, the difference being that at. Union, one can \Drink smoke, and fuck without getting .kicked out.\ Huppuch believes that the col- le~e bas been neglecting ·the liberal arts department too much. He was quite disappointed by the fact that ttte college is spending so much money for the Science and Engineering building. The liberal arts \facilities are hurt- ing\. He believes that the women will ultimately become liberal arts majors and the college is not ready for them. Askedifhewould be able to work with the other candidates, Huppuch exclaimed \Walter (Spencer) is O.K. but a iittle too Nixonist for my per .. sonal tastes and Dawson would make a better executive. n The Gyurko-Jacoby-Huppuch ticket is for pressing their ideas through the legal channels. They also believe in the referendum as a vote of confidence and as back- bone of their power. Huppuch says, if and when they lack this vote of confidence, the Student Senate officers ought to resign, McManus, the only candidate to propose anything radically different from the ()thers, dis- closed' plans to attempt to insti- tute, if e 1 e c ted, ail Inclusive Cover Yeax Program. This would allow students to be fully pro- tected by the college with regard to the draft while taking an extra yea).' to study on their own. The year so taken could be either the Sophomore or .Junior year, or an extra year. McManus feels that this would alle:l'iate draft pressure by allow- ing students to move more seclll.'ely in the academic world once they have taken their year. It would provide a chance for stu- dents to find themselves, and would eliminate much dropping outand reapplying. Ill agreement with the other candidates, McManus espoused the cause of the Free University and Senate concern· with this issue: No foreign language requirement, open exams under an honor system, the institution of a workshop on the college. M:ore time, said McManus, should be spent on the problems of the college with regard to education rather than the social prol;>lems of the school. CONCORDlENSIS, APRIL 28, 1970 PAGE 3 '11A1i '~ .Au' ?w9~ ~Wtf' 7Jw~ Sfc.o,u '1i1Au BY MIKE MESEROLE They don't seU popcorn down in SS 016, but it's just as well, I imagine, because last weekend's heralded \Kinetic Art Program Oile\ was not popcorn material. Movies that make you think never are. The \Program\ consisted of eleven short films, and the majority of them were eillighten- ing and entertaining, if a little tiring by the end of the show. My grasp of foreign languages borders on the non-existent, so except for a \fini\ here and a \fine\ there I didn't know where several.of the films were coming from. The fact that it really didn't matter, however, was the strength of the program; the problems presented in the films, for the most part, are universal ones • Whenever you sift t h r o u g h eleven of anything, there are some things you like and some that you either don't like as much or ·don't like at all. Of the pre- sented short features, five stand out, in this reviewer's mind, as fun to watch as well as stim- ulating in content. Two of these were cartoons' one entitled, \A Life in a Tin\ and the other dealing with a couple, a raft and a deserted island. Both were mouth-water- ing in their irreverent exagger- a:tion and delicious in their simple point. W hi 1 e one showed the futility of moving from one •tin\ to another, skirting tlle warmth ()f Nature until the final tin-- siX feet under; the other cartoon blasted just about anything that has t() do with progress-from autonation to pollution to war to people. Far from humorous was a black and white Czech World War II film. This piece, invol- ving a very young boy up against , unspe.akable poverty, a.n empty stomach and a strafin~ German airplane, was a study in pathos :and by far the most emotional presentation of the evening. Back on the lighter side, the final two favorites, \I'm So Unhappy\ and \Sophie were hil- ariotts. Tbe first one was simply ridiculous; this unhappy guy is given an object and told that it's .:Happiness; he takes it and gleefully skips off into the sun- set. csophie,\ probably the best film of the lot, involves an inno- cent little girl who does to her perfectionist piano teacher what everyone of us has wished he had the ~ts todo-sheslamsthekey- board cover down on Madame's dancing fingers. The Vassar Madrigal Singers will join the U~on College Mad- rigals in a ~oncert Thursday evening at 8:30 p.m. in Memorial Chapel. The . concert, which Wa$ entl1usiastic¥1Y received when preseJ;tted laSt Saturday night at Vassar, will· feature works by Debus~y and Poulehc, Medical Deferments Offer ,Possible Legal Means of Escape from Draft Tile rest of the program was not as refreshing. The opening ligbt show extravaganza, sort of a cross between \2001\ and the \AllC Movie of the Week\ (com- plete with what sounded like Joey DeE ,backgronnd music), was a gooci massage for the eyes. There was -a 11 Fugitive 11 short, .featuring other than David Janssen and sear-ching for a hanging judge rather than aone-armedman. We ne-ver did find out what crime the guy supposedly committed and eve!!. he didn't know if he did it e>r not, which didn't make things any easier. * * * * Completed . applications fo.r financial aid for 1970-71 are due in the Student Aid O:ffice by Fri- day, May 1st. * * * * Professor l'forman Miller of the American Universities' Field staff will be .speakin~on \BLACK AND WHtTE .~ AFRJCA 11 this Monday, May 4 at 7:45 p.m. in SS016. ?1oJ ~~ ?lti!Jt Awtuted BY M. PAUL ANDREWS Editor Henry Fein informs me that no deluge ofletters swamped the Concordiensis m a i 1 box in response to my first column on the draft. I remain undaunted, however, and am encouraged by reports from Ken Schroeder that the new draft counseling service received some business last week in Silliman Hall. In theory, one of the purposes of this column is to inform stu• dents of possible options and alternatives open to them ofwhich they formerly may not have been aware, The column should pro- voke more questions than it answers; the counseling service is available to answer further questions. An award reqognizing creative There are numerous alterna- experitnentatio:D in the field of tives to military service other electrical engineering has been than the most obvious ones of establishedby.a,gi'oup of friend$ conscientious objection; emigra .. and colleague~ of a deceased tion to CanaQa. or acute physical General E1~ctric Company disability, One draftee served engb:leer.. , . more than half a year in the The R.E. 'Morgan .Memorial Army before he wae discharged Award will 'be given. to a senior for a physical defect that went majoring in el~ctrical engineer- undetected in his physical exam- ing at Union. who has •demon- ina.tion at induction. The draftee strated optstandfilg creative was aware of his condition but schola:rllwp ~il coutse wo,;k, inde- wd not know that u would dis- pendent stu(ly Clt in the laboratory qualify him from service. in the field o~ power electron-· There are scores of ailments ics,ll and .physical defects which pro· The award is named for ihe . hibit service in the military. If late Ray m on~ E. MorgM, a yon cannot flex your knee past pioneer in 1:11~ :ffelds of magnetic· 90 degrees, are allergic to amplifiers arid'solidstatecontrol · peanut 'butter, h!lve braces on for the GenHa.l Electric Com,- your teeth, o.r if you suffer from pany, who di&d' in. a. canoeing arthritis, anemia or dacryoeysti- accident in 1~8. tis of the eyelids,youmay qualify Gn:~ubort & Sons may run small ads, but tlley have big values. ,.r,·· ·-.--:. ·::· '~~:::... ,. • t'.~· .. ;?4 ~.:.,:.~-·~· ·;_~~~ Schenectady's famous dli.mo11d shop, (for tbr~e generations) 1&-6 .Jay St. THREE U~ION GRJ.\.DUATES . !N ff-M!LV ~? for medical deferment. In fact, dacryocystitis is almost certain to keep you out. Tile physical and psychological standards for deferment are listed in Chapter 2 ot Army Regulation 40-501 entiUed •Medical Fitness standards for APPointment, Enlistment and . Induction.\ The draft coimseling service on campus haS copies of the regulation. If your special condition is listed in Chapter 2 of the regu- latiML1 you can serve only in the case of war or national emer- gency and should be classified 1- Y. If your condition is also listed in Chapter 6youaretotally unacceptable and should receive IV-F classification. Both 1-Yand IV·F indicate medical defer- meRts, but the former is less permanent. If you think you have a con- dition which qualifies you for me!lical deferment, you should ask a physician to write full reports describing your condi- tioll. Preferably your physician should be a family doctor who knows your own medical history, or a doctor who is known to be sy~npathetic to persons seeking medical deferment. The .physician should include in llis report a complete des- cription of your condition in medical terms, the medical his- tory of your condition, how it coald hinder you under military coaditions, any treatm~t you are receiving for it, and how long tb.e condition is expected to last. The report should include copies of X-rays, laboratory reports, special tests and other documented evidence of the con- dition, or if you had to be hos- pitalized or operated on, copies of those reports and records should also be submitted. As with any correspondence With your local board, youshould make at least fOur copies of all medical records for your per- sonal file. If you are classified I·A, 1-A-o, or I-0 and you notify your board that you have a condition listed 'in Chapter 2 of Army Regulation 40-501, it is reqllir.ed to order you to have an iit terview with its medical ad. visor to·determine ifyou should be reclass~fied. Many local boards are ignorant on this matter as well as on others, and you may Jul.ve to request speci- fic:ally an interview with the medical adviSor·. The process of the interview with the medical advisor, and subsequent steps to take, is too detailed to deal with here. What should be kept in mind is that any affliction or medical condi- tion which you have now or which you develop before you are inducted may disqualify you for military service. A draft coun- seling service similar to the one offered from 2:30 to 5 p.m. Mondays, Wednesdays and Fri- days in Silliman Hall should be consulted fo.r further information about medical deferments. Mean- while, remember that I will gladly respond to any questions about the draft and the Selective Service System in this weekly column. The Concordy mailbox in Student Activities awaits with empty shelf. N1.1de buffs were not denied in this program, but the tendency is tc wish that they were. There were two such films; one com- mencing with a less than photo• genic naked woman holding some kind of strange machine and shov- ing the audience into a box. L11cllly, once inside, the horror shrw was over and you were entertained witha witty discourse on the Body, Give Mom a Bil1tA! early ... And make Motl1er's Day last longer. Call or visit an HD florist today. And order a Bigl-lus l3ouquet to arrive early. He'll send it across the street. Or country. A special arrangement. For a very spe<:ial mother. Yours. Usually av.ailable Sl2 50 at less than • The FTD~ bouquet. 'If/\$ an Independent businessm5n 1 cad! FTD Member Florist sets his own prices.

PAGE 4 CONCORDIENSIS, APRIL 28, 1970 Concordy Sports Lacrosse Bombards Alf.r8d, 29-5 BY MARK SHUGGLL Mark Sanderson led a parade of 11 Union scorers with five goals on Saturday when the Gar- net lacrosse team decimated a hapless Alfred squad by the unbelievable score of29'-5. Union pushed its record to 4-1 by total~y manhandling the visitor s both on offense as well as defense, while outshooting them 64-14. Sanderson added three assists to his five goal performance. Scoring three times for the Dutchmen were Wayne Christie, Barry Gross, Bruce Dugan, Tom Sleckman, and freshman Stan White. White, playing in only his second varsity game, also con- tributed two assists. Showing two goals for their afternoon's work were Bill Simpson, Jim Sabella, Pup Gould, and starting goalie Ed Green. Ken Rosenthal connected for a single tally. Sanderson managed his first score after just 18 seconds of play, Christie followed with the first of his goals three minutes later on a brilliant solo effort. The sophomore took a pass behind the Alfred net, faked once, drove in front of the goal, and fired the ball ,past the startled Saxon goalie. . C h r i s t i e followed with his second goal 17 seconds later on a pass from White. After the fir s t period, the Garnet were well in command ·a-o, with Sanderson owning half the goals. Union upped the count to 12- 1 by halftime with Gross s co r i n g twice In the second period. Backup goalie Bob Erlandson was inserted into the lineup after ten minutes of play and went the rest of the way. Starting goalie Green began the second half at a midfield posi- . \ . Lam·bert . Starts As s·atsmen- - . ' ' ;. : . Seek Third Win In RPI Tilt BY BILL HOLLERAN The defense, however, has been atrocious. The Garnet committed ten total errors in the Drew and Stevens contests, with ~ixoftllose miscues in the Drew loss result- ing in four unearned runs. tion arid promptly proceeded to .score two goals. Green was a midfielder before being . con- verted to the goal last year by coach Allison. Defenseman Pup Gould al;;o got his first two goals of the season irt the rout. Union added eight goals in the thi11d period and nine more in the final stanza to reach their total of 29. Despite the \We want thirty\ pleas from the crowd, however, the Dutchmen could go,.. no ·higher, although Garnet players hit the goru post three times, the crossbar once, and missed scattered other scoriJlg opportunities. Alfred scored four times in the last· period. An interesting note to the Gar~ net's performance was that only· two go al s were scored by a senior, both by Jim Sabella. Twenty-seven out of the 29 tallies were c:redited to Fresh- men, Sophomores,· and Juniors. In addition, goalie Green is only a junior, and Ei'landson, his b.ackup,. is a sophomore. On d~fense, Garry Drpmmo'nd, Mik~ Peng, Ed Young, 'Fom Reif, as well as Gould, :w-ill all return next year. The stickmen t~e ta the north thi:s weekend) :f'acing;$.t. Lawrence and (: 1 a r k s on, The Larries downed Union a year ago, 9-8, while the Garnet wPP: easily over Clarkson l6-3, Tennis Rebounds To Bl.ank In-dians; Freshmen Drop Opener To Hami,lton BY DENNIS ALSOFROM The varsity netmen bounced back strong yesterday from their poor performance last week with an impressive 9-0 victory over Siena. All membersoftheteamplayed well, winning instraigbtsets. Jeff South, playing first singles, easily \brushed aside his opponent 6-3, 6-3, despite a :sore shoulder which kept him out of doubles competition. However, he should be back to full strength for the Garnet's next two big matches. In order, the other Union vic- tors were Stu Fisc-hler, Bob Man- drey, Ken Groover, Ernie Guillet and Jim Skiff, who jumped to varsity to acl.mirably replace Fred Kaplan. In doubles, it was the same story. The teams of Fischler- Mandrey, Groover-Guillet, and Ski:ff-Oaucontt all won in straight sets. Daucontt a 1 so moved up from Freshmen for this match. Although Siena proved to be a weak opponent, yesterday• s vic- tory should give the team much- needed momentum and confidence for their two big matches this week at )lome, against R.P.L and Rochester. Last Saturday the Freshmen opened their season against Ham- ilton, and cam e up on the short end of a 6•3 score. Playing in the. first singles position, Skiff started o:! his personal record witll a narrow three set victory. liowever, his doubles partner Daucontt lost in. straight sets, a~? did the num- ber three and four players, Sam Weemes and Mike Sacks. . Playing in tb.e·fifth spot, Chuck Wysor lost in str~ght sets, while Paul P fin g s t kept the Garnet hopes alive with a crucial, hard fought three set victory. Go in g into the · doubles, the Frosh neede(} a sweep to win the match but could only manage one victory. Skiff and Daucontt won in three s~ts, while their teammates Weemes and Sacks, and Pfingst and Wysor, lost in straight sets. The injury-plagued 2-1 Garnet baseball team returned to action this afternoon against the Eng! nee rs of RPI, taking advantage of the fine spring weather after heavy rain last week forced the postponements of their games with Williams and Rochester, The gaJPe was played beneath warm, sunny skies on Alexander Field, starting at 2:30p.m. Coach Art Lawrence, with two of his pitchers laid up with sore arms, started freshman Hank Lambert on the mound this after- noon. Lambert did well in his only previous outing, a five- inning stint in relief of John Siedlecki against Drew ten days ago, in which he allowed but two runs. Injury-Ridden Trackmen Sprint Past St. Lawrence; Host RPI Saturday DIAMANTE'S Enjoy Our Fine Home (Qoked ll.alian Food in Ou1 C¢mfortcble Dining Room Law renee's two injured pitchers are freshmen Siedlecki and sophomore staff anchorman Larry Berkeley. Siedlecki is bothered by a chronic sore arm, and· may not pitch for the remainder of the season. How- ever, he started today's game in left field for the Garnet. Berkeley is also bothered by a sore arm, and went to the doctor today to determine exactly how bad t h in g s are. Lawrence is not sure whether he Will be able to use Berkeley for the remainder of the season, either. The Dutchmen were looking to their hitting power and a tighter defense to belp the pitchers and down the Engineers this after•· noon. The Garnet have been terrors at the plate so far this spring, scoring 27 runs in their first three games while hammer- ing 26 hits. BY GREG HAMLIN Showing their overwhelming strength in the running events, the Union College track team demolished St. Lawrence on Saturday, 91-53. The victory marked the first time this year that a Garnet team had toppled a Larries foe. The Dutchmen registe;red the win without the aid of two steliar performers, Rick Jaszczak and · Bruce Cobb. Jaszczak, hampered by an injury incurred during the indoor season, was forced to drop out of both the 440 and 880. Cobb pulled a muscle in the 100 yard dash and will probably be lost to the Dutchmen for the rest of the year. Paul Forbes, Steve Wood, Tim McCabe, and Steve Andreski were instrumental in the victory. Iron man Forbes tied for first in the · one mile run with teammates Terry McManus and Joe Burgess, and then came back one hour later to win the two mile event. Soph Wood had a hand in tfiree victories. The Ohioan remained undefeated in the 440 (winniqg in 52.0), while also running impres- sive legs in the 440 and mile reiays. Half-miler McCabe led a Union ATTENTION SENIORS Caps & Gowns measurements now being taken at the bookstore Deadline 5/1/70 freshmen sweep. in his specialty~ McCabe's time of 2:00,4 was an excellent clocking, considering the earliness of the season. The speedster also ran away from the Larries opposition in his leg of the mile relay, insuring tne final victory in that event, Andreski led off for the vic- torious 440 relay quartet, and then copped a first in the 100 yard dash. The Garnet cause was also aided by a relatively strong show- · ing in the fi e 1 d events. Dick Thickens and Gray Watkins cap- tl)r~d their second straight vic- tories in the shot put and pole vault, respectively. Thickens heaved the shot 45' THE RED FOX 123 JAY .ST. A Quiet PlaceT o Drink 10% .off on Dinners Thur., Fri., Sat. Night SCHAFFER LIBRARY lhuott &l~e , BO'OK AUC-TION May 5 - May 8 10 1/2\ for his win, while Wat- kins cleared 13' in taking his specialty. Geoff Walker also con- tributed a first, triple jumping 42' 9 1/2 11 • Ed Rossi, Pete Ericson, and Dave Gray turned in fine running performances for the Dutchmen, too, Rossi won the 120 high hurdles in 16.3,. while Co-captain Ericson ran legs on the winning 440 and mile relay teams and grabbed a second in the 440 yard dash. Gray ran iil the 440 r e 1 a y and f i n is he d behind a Larries opPQneqt in the 220~ The Garnet will host arch-rival R.P.L this Saturday. Expected starting time is 2:00p.m. Opp. The Brownell-. Gate on NoH Street Open Doily I 0 to 1 A.M. Sundays S P.M: to I A.M. Pennel Esse Servi-ce Nott Street Corner Of VanVranken STEREO SOUND COMPLETE OFFERING FOR THE . SOUND CONSCI.OUS STUDENT. SYSTEMS DISCOUNTS. ALL MAJOR COMPONENTS. Special: Tues. & Wed. Only ANY .PAIR PIONEER HEADPHONES 1/3 OFF OPEN WEEKDAY EVENINGS. till 9~SAT. til15:30 374•5367 - P ._, ' c ifG Ct M:c stud~ ea~n1 thea A( with racu toni! Yorl the link Mer T will wiU Mal Prl for II r.ec a ' aw: Fo a \VI au~ Bu of Ell ho ail U1 s:a ti! fa J: II 0 b c 1 II :e p Ii Il 0 i l (

