earle nod field bility the this ogan their 14 more ished arnet and all ' for • 1.1\. • Founded at Union College 1877 . - ,, . - . VOLUME H>f?, NUMBE~ 17 SCHENECtADY, NEW YORK, ADECEM~ER 4, 1970 PRICE TWENTY CENTS Dioision Votes On Mid-Term · Grades Students Overlooked In Calendar Change Talks By DA VI:O CONTI By PETER DICKERMAN Student Senate President Walter Spencer, in an interview with Concordiensis Tuesday evening, reveakd his belief that che College Administration has asked the Faculty to act on a calendar change and has overlooked Senate and student Division I Faculty, in a meeting held Monday, voted in favor of a ·proposaf which would elinlinate midterm grade reports for freshmen. · Thl.s issue was one of several, discussed in order to l;letermine the · will of members of ~he Division prior to- the Faculty Council meeting held Tuesday. The approved meti<m WO\!lld abolish the present policy of sending midterm grades to the parents of freshmen, but would continue the practice of issuing proficiency cards at midterm in the case of students who are . marginal or failing. P:mponents of such a .change asserted that the midterm grade was often meaningless due to the fact that after only five :weeks... the professor may have little or no graded material from his students. Furthermore, it was argued that parents have sometimes attributed · undue importance to these interim marks, and have therefore placed more pressure upon the students than was desirable. Regarding other matters, the sessien devoted lengthy attention to a proposal which would establish a joint faculty-studen~ -administration committee -t o review scholarship policies. This plan, which originated With President Martin, underwent several substantive modifications thro\!lgh amendment. In conclusion, it was agreed upon that Division Representative Professor Jan Ludwig could best interpret the will of his constituency at the Faculty Council. The divisional meeting, over which Professor Carl Niemeyer of the English Department, presided, included another discussion of proposed cha11ges · in the academic calendar. Apparently, the consensus Frats Pledge-d By 110 Frosh~ The results. of the first r\!lshing period for . Union's fifteen fraternities were in early this week, and they were announced officially by Inter-Fraternity Council President, Bob Teittinen, of Phi Gamma Delta. The 300 men in the Class of '75, offered the fifteen houses a total of 110 bids after the first rush, 100 of which were matched by the fraternities. This represents roughly one-third of the male freshman class. The five houses which drew the most bids were: Chi Psi~l4, Beta Theta Pi-14, Theta Delta Chi-9, .. Delta Upsilon-9, and Psi Upsilon-~8. The second rush will begin on January 5, and will be open- ended for the first time, allowing fraternities to approach students as late as June. Teittinen said that the houses could \expect a much larger second rush than ever before. hi addition .to the open-ended rush period, it seems .. that many freshmen were hesitant to commit themselves to one fraternity at tbls time.;' among the faqulty members present was that the proposed regional consortium plan, which would provide the impetus for a calendar change, has by no means been adequately discussed. Several professors expressed the wish that the administration research . and rele~se sufficient information concerning the cons~rtium. One faculty member. in suggesting that the administration be questioned relating to details of _the doctoral programs, asserted that it should not be necessary to spread information through \rumor- mongering.\ Professor D. C. Stineback, English, disclosed a Secial Committee plan to sponsor a program of creative artists in residence here. This plan was formulated in reaction to the apparent forthcoming abolition of the Davidson Fellowship. Stineback reminded the faculty of its obligation to support the arts at Union, and added that suggestions from all segments of the College community would be appreciated. body opinion on the issue. Spencer stated that a student committee consisting of himself, Don Kessler, Walt Kogut, and Scott Bowen met last month to discuss the calendar change with President Martin. The President aarrowed the proposed changes to three: 1. Two terms with four courses in each; 2. A \4; I :4\ system similar to Skidmore's present calendar; 3. A \Split three\ in which three weeks of the second term would be completed before the Wintel;\ Recess, and the final term would end in the middle of May. The calendar change, Spencer continued, is necessary to put Union's schedule in line with all the other schools in the Hudson- Mohawk Association of Colleges and Universities. He stated that it had been his notion that President Martin would send the formal proposals to the Senate to be acted upon and that student opinion would be sought; neither action was SociolOgist E. Stonequist Honored by· Colleagues Friends and fellow social scientists came to Union from scattered sections of the nation on Friday, November 20 in order to pay tribute to Everett V. Stonequist. The celebration, which included both afternoon ·and evening sessions, was hosted by Professor Malcolm Willison. Professor Stonequist is former Chairma~ of the Oepartme~t. of Sociology at Skidmore College, having retued from that pos1t10n last year. He is best known in academic circ~es a~ one of the foremost originators and interpreters of the soc1olog1cal theory of marginality. This theory was first formulated by Professor Robert Park at the University of Chicago during the 1920's and 1930'~· Stonequist studied under Park and, later, became one of h1s .. .. proteges. . . The subject being dealt with, the \marginal man,\ is ~ person who is a product of two different cultures, often one who 1s c~ught between two societies without rea.lly being a full member of either. In the course-of his formal address (which was eriginally intended to be part of a book) Professor Stonequi~t assert.ed. th~.t \S~nce the 1930's the conditions which gjve rise to margmal men mcrease rather than decrease.;' He continued by noting that in recent years \the role of the marginal man has changed from une of relat~ve weakness and personal isolation to one of power and collect1~e action in wide areas of the world ... \ By way of example, Stoneqmst mentioned the increasing assertiveness of black Americans. In commenting on the present and future of \marginality Professor Milton Gordon of the University of Massachusetts stated that the concept of the marginal man has been \extraor~inarily fruitful\. Gordon explained that the. United States 1s now experienceing a reawakening of racial and ethnic consciousness, and a new interest in cultural pluralism. He concluded by predicting that minority g:roups will ~ncr~asing~y et?phasi·ze po~er relationships rather than accommodatwn m the1r dnve for equahty, thu; making structural pluralism the dominant theme of the coming era. . Professor Paul Meadows of SUNY at Albany spoke of the relationship between marginality and boundary maintenance, stating that the theory of marginality ~.derived from a framework which places great importance upon boundB:ry patterns. Meado'Ys said that ethnicity itself has become an Important concept m Americart sociology. . There seemed to be general agreement among the sesst~n's participants that the. traditional \melting pot\ the~ry. of Amen~an development was not a completely. accura.te d~scnpuon of reahty. As Prof. Gordon stated: \There 1s no mevltable trend or law toward assimilation.\ taken. Instead, the proposals teach should be thoroughly were presented to the Faculty discussed by aU the persons to he Council to be voted upon affected. Students. he continued, Tuesday afternoon, Spencer said. should have a say in how the \A formal effort,\ he calendar is to be changed. continued, \was not made to go Spencer approached Dean to the Student Senate.\ The Martin Lichterman of the Center Faculty, he noted, were only of Humanities and Social given notice of the proposals Sciences concerning what was earlier Tuesday afternoon at the done. and Lichterman replied Division Meetings. The Faculty that the change is \an Council did not, however, administrative matter.\ consider the proposals. \Talking to four students.\ \The matter,\ according to Spencer concluded. was Spencer, \was very poorly apparently thought by the handled by the Administration.\ administration to be .. adequate He said that an issue as basic as student participation on the when students are to be on issue.\ campus and when faculty are to Council Discusses Course Proposals By NINA WOLFF The Faculty Council, meeting Tuesday afternoon. discussed nev. courses and midterm grades for freshmen. but did not consider a change in the calendar as they had planned. Among. ·the proposals Among other topics scheduled regarding new courses considered for consideration by the Faculty by the faculty wa~ an emergency were a change in transfer policy proposal for a course m and the proposed calendar Electrical Engineering. change. However. lack of time ''Electrical Analysis,\ according forced curtailment of the planned to the Faculty, should have been agenda. discussed and voted upon at an earlier meeting. The council decided, however. that the course not be offered in future terms, as it had never been discussed with the Math o.r Engineering departments. The next course discussed was Anthropology 147 E. This three- unit course dealing with the cross- cultural problems in America, was approved unanimously to be offered during the day. As of now, no anthropology courses are being offered. Sociology 148 E was approved unanimously to be offered in Spring '71. The course's content will include functional analysis of patterns of stability and disruption in formally structured, goal-oriented organizations. A Comprehensive Education course, \Economic Issues: Present and, Perhaps, Future\ was then acted upon. It is a disputed question course open to all students, but many members of the Faculty Council felt that economic majors would have a decided advantage over non- majors. After much discussion, the course was not approved, but was recommitted for clarification, and it will not be offered in winter term as expected. Finally, discussion shifted to \Functional Histology and Organology\ was discussed. This course in the Biological Sciences, leveled at the 100 series, and open to undergraduates and graduate students, was approved. The meeting continued with the discussion of midterm grades for freshmen. The proposal that the midterm grades be abolished was not approved. However, an amendment was proposed suggesting that the student's advisor should be informed of the report of a deficiency card by the end of the sixth week of the term. This amendment was approved by the Councu. Fisher Sees New Battle In Congress By TOM MITCHELL Joel Fisher, a member of the U.S. State Department. speaking on Thursday. November 19 at a meeting of the International Relations Club. discussed the 1970 elections and their realtionship to America's foreign policy. He emphasized that foreign policy has not been a matter of partisan politics. and that. excluding exceptional moments. the American public has been neither informed nor interested in foreign affairs. Fisher said. \it is difficult, not impossible, to analyze how the election will influence foreign relations.\ Nevertheless. he did predict a \coming battle\ in Congress. In this conflict. Congressmen would have to choose between backing the Administration's multilateral approach. that of making agreements with many countries at one time, or supporting a bilateral attempt. making an agreement with only one other country to promote international goals. He also stated that the election would not change our policies toward Israel. since our support for that country has been reaffirmed, and that our relations with Latin America might be influenced by a stronger feeling for self-help in that area. · Mr. Fisher expressed his belief that the economic situation in the country and not Vietnam is, presently, the most important issue. In fact, \barring any catastrophe, Vietnam is neither a plus nor a minus to the administration.\ ..

PAGE 2 CONCORDIENSIS, DEC. 4, 1970 .o\\'11i \·~ ~~------. ----~~~~· . mnnrnr l1~~!'·; 9 s lltrn.ats CO'·,:fi& ~~~(>~ Editor·in-Chier Peter J. W eingold Mauging Editor James E. Stewart Business Manager Lloyd Bims Editors Emeriti William Ouzer Henry G. Fein News Editor Louis S. Snitkoff Asst. Business Managers Doug Tosh Contributing Editor Richard L. Kramer Asst. News Editor Peter Bickerman Doug Binder National Adv. Mgr. Photography ·Editor Features Editor Daniel Schochet Neil Green Jod)l. Saslow Layout Editor Doug Wong Sports Editor William J. Holleran Asst. Photography Editors Charles Long Asst. Sports Editor Mark Shugoll Dave Conrey · STAI-'1-': Nina Wolff, Harris Samuels, Abby ~t:hutter, Judy Steinbach, Michael Golcr, Les Goldman, .JoReph Achenhaum, David Conti, Greg Hamlin, Bruce Garber, Mike Gottlieb, M. Grossman, Michael Hollander, Gemge Kaplan, Roher! A. Levine, Mike Meserole •. Thomas Morante, Ruth Morton, Michael Rosenburg, Burgess Brier, Brenda Kaplan, Barbara McDonald, Tom Mitchell, Jay Hobard, Len Solomon, George Bain, Marty Berman, Reid Russel, • Gail Goodm~n and Mark Zubres Puhhshcd I ucsd01ys :tnd htdays durmg the \chuol year by the •tudcnt hndy \I llnttm l'nllcgc, Schcncctudy, :-.;. Y .. ~atiunal Advcrli•in~ Hepre•entativc, National Educational Adverti•in~ Service, lrlc, ( 'ullcgc .f'uhli•hc\ Rcprc•cnt01tive, 360 l.c~tngtun Ave., N. Y.C l'dit<>rtal nll!ce, Old (;ym, llnion ('ollcgc, l'ul>licaliun Olltcc. I he World l'unh.calluns, 771 'it ate Strcel., Schenectady, N.Y. 12~07, 346· 2.156. 1-.ntercd 10 the Schenectady po\1 office '\ Second ('IuS> Mail Malter Subscnplmn 2!l·ccnts a copy. $t\ a ycur delivered anywhere in the finitcd Stale,!!. ' A lack of time has evidently saved the Faculty Council from taking action which could have proved to be a sore spot for years to come. The proposed calender change which was tabled because of a heavy agenda was apparently about to be voted on with only the barest amount of student participation. Even though the issue has been considered in the past, because of its dramatic impact on the entire college, students must be given a proportionate say in any discussion of the action. If Dean Lichterman does indeed think. that the change is on~y an administrative matter then he and the rest of the administration should remember that the good relations between the students and the administration have been due at least in part to the rejection of this attitude on issues clearly affecting everyone. It would be stupid to force a confrontation on an issue which is likely to be resolved amicably by both parties, as long as the administration does not try to push anything through without consulting students. When the issue does come up for consideration, the best option is the .. Split Three.\ The greatest gripe about the present sysfem is the date of class termination in the Spring. This change would serve to eliminate the June ending and at the same time would make it more possible for Union students· to study at other Consortium schools. OPEN LETTER - An Open Letter To President Martin: One of the seemingly few disappointments I've had here at Union concerns the size of classes. We are told that the faculty:student ration is 1: I 0.4 or l: 10.5 or whatever, and while that may or may not be true, it is misleading. My classes always have 19.7 or at least 16.666 students. Just last spring, I was one of 66.9 students enrolled in a popular psychology course. Certainly, averag~ class size cannot be 10 or 11 per. Two questions arise in my mind. How-is the faculty: student ratio obtained? It would seem to me that physical education instructors, library staff, faculty- on-leave, and even the administration itself are included as faculty. I make this claim because, to my knowledge, active faculty members teach as many classes per term as students take (three) and as l tried to show above, there are substantially more then 11 students per class. In short, a definition of \faculty\ is in order. But this is picayune. The important question is, What purpose does announcing the faculty:student ratio serve? Is it to wheedle money out of the reverett alumni pockets or is it to gjve our incoming students an accurate idea of what they will encounter at Union? You may admonish me for assuming that the faculty:student ratio applies also to the classroom situation; but I can assure you that I am not the only student with wool over my eyes. I only hope that next year's freshmen are given a clear picture of what Union College is like. You must provide an accurate reading of the present average class size, from which the entering student can derive an idea as to what it will be next year. I don't think it's too much to ask for you (via the registrar, who has rosters of every class) to provide this vital information; vital because of that other deceiving statistic. Respectfully, Gary Leiderman '73 FERRQ PHARMACY 575 Nott Street Schenectady, N. Y. FOUNTAIN SERVIC£ One bl9clc ·from Brownell Gat• To the Editor: I am an Upward Bound Student and have read your paper and find it very dull and . uninteresting. First of all, I would like to point out that I also take Journalism at Troy High School. I find this course interesting so as a fellow journalist, I would like my criticism of your paper taken into consideration. Besides being dull your paper has some writing errors according to the rules of journalism. Some of your leads are much too long. They should only be twenty-five words at the most. Also a story you placed on the front page should have been a review, not a news story (that is the one about \Woyzeck.\) I also fouQd your editorial a little long and dragged out and the lead much too long. You have no features, which do liven a paper. Some of your articles are like advertisements. I strongly believe if your paper was not printed and sent out for students to read so often your paper would be much more interesting. (We have a four-week span and it gives us time to .gather news, write features and also cover things to accredit Troy High that are done outside of school.) Your sports section is aU right so far. I hope my suggestions may help to improve your paper. As a fellow journalist I would like to see it improved. Union students will enjoy it more. (Try it according · .to the rules of \Streamline Journalism.\) Jeannette Rowe Upward Bmmd Troy High School, '71 * * \' * To the Editor: I was pleased to learn from the President that the· half-century of Union broadcasting had been celebrated and that it had been written up in your paper. I can add a few items to your account and suggest some changes that would bring it more in line with what actually happened. If your record is likely to be used in the future - like October 2020 ·- it might be good to file the changes with the original. I was the Chief Engineer of the station which was 2XQ and not 2ADD in 1920 and so was familiar with what went on. The most imaginative member of the Club was Leo Freedman 1921 and .it was he who conjured up the baby carriage idea and put it together and wheeled it around. He probably also got the idea of broadcasting the prom music live that year - perhaps another first you did not mention. Our programs ran from 8:00 to 8:30 and from 9:00 to 9:30. The reason for this was that our 1000 volt power supply was a 500 volt generator run at about 150% speed and the fields paralleled to maximize the excitation.\' (your engineering colleagues will explain) The machine got smoking hot in a half hour so we had to shui down to let it cool off. The prom broadcast was a half time affair for the same reason. ·1 clon't remember the football broadcast from Geneva and I am sure we never had the price of a leased line for 2 hours. It would have cost more than the total resources of the Club membership! And there was nothing much commercial about our effort. We did give Barney's credit for lending us the records. Glen \Mercer 1917, was the one who negotiated the loan of the 50 watt tubes from G.E. and guided us in our construction of the transmitter and antenna. Ellsworth Cook, 1920 was much interested in vacuum tubes then but did not participate much in the horsework of building the equipment. In the summer .of 1921 G .E. borrowed our \press book\ which is still in the college library, and on the .strength of what th~y founcJ in it started WG Y. When we ceased to be experimental our license was changed to WRL. In the press book I believe there are cards ' from ships half way across the Atlantic. We had 150 watts when everything was working and were on 360 meters, more or less. But WRL couldn't complete with WGY! There are many interesting technical aspects of the pioneering that we did but I feel they wouldn't be of interest to the current Club members. Ralph D. Bennett * * * * To the Editor: In the h.ub-bub of last spring, at student request, the faculty allowed incompletes to be taken in courses and a period of one year was allowed for completing the requirements. For those students who have not yet made up the work on courses given last spring, may I .give a friendly piece of advice? Try to get the incomplete out of the way during Christmas vacation before we are in die rush of two semesters of busy work. From bitter experience, I know the incomplete can be a misleading and beguiling grade, but suddenly the time of reckoning comes and. you are faced with your regular work as well as the necessity to make up the back work. Too often the student finds he has forgotten a great deal about the course if he lets it go too long. This is in no way an official letter, but just a hope that students will profit from the experiences of others. Edward J. Malloy, Dean of Students For Pants With a Flair Lafayette 41~6 State Street Downtown DOUGLAS Your Headquarters For Fashion Footwear BOSTONIAN* BATES* WALL-STREETER HUSH PUPPIES * WALK·OVER * SEBAGD-MOCS MANSFIELD *SNOW & AFTER SKI BOOTS Phone FR 4-85 77 319 State Street Schenectady, N.Y. $1 OFF PURCHASE OF SHOES UPON PRESENTATION OF LD. CARD LUIGI'S RESTAURANT SPECiALIZING IN Italian • American Food 1125 BARREn ST •. Schenectady 01 6-9744 Enjoy Sizzling Ste~ks and Chops Visit Our .Cocktail Bar Nusbaum's \OtrrFITTERS TO MEN and YOUNG MENn MOHAWK MALL BALLTOWN RD. SCHENECTADY DOWNTOWN 447 STATE ST. / .,) . (t,.

the I feel to pring, ta.ken one those made n last the are of tter the but with the back finds deal it go that the \ ,. ' ,) ,.,) , r~,. .. j) . ·'l iJ uDiar~ of a Mad Housewife\ By ROBERT A. LEVINE In 1962, Frank and Eleanor Perry made an impressive entrance into the world of film with their independently produced \David and Lisa.\ This flawed gem of a film garnered much praise from the critics and the public, establishing the Perrys. ·as an extremely promising director-screen-writer team. There was, however, quite a bit of' controversy, as to the qualities that made \David and Lisa\ deserving of such praise., Many critics said that the script was quite good, but the direction was disturbingly awkward. Andrew Sarris, the Village Voice flltn critic, in his book The American Cinema states that critics .came to this conclusion because Frank Perry had never directed a movie before, and it is generally assumed that direction is more a craft than an art, as writing is more an art than a craft. Sarris asserts that \David and Lisa'' is awkwardly writ~en and rather interestingly directed. It is exactly this type of controversy that has been the keynote (in varying degrees) to each successive Perry endeavor. All of their fllms from \David and Lisa\ on were based upon extremely fascinating ideas and story-lines and their exhibition was awaited with great expectancy. Unfortunately, the potential of the Perry projects never became a reality (with the exception of the generally acclaimed film \Trilogy\ which was initially shown on television as 3 separate films). Their second endeavor, \Ladybug Ladybug,\ made in 1963, was considered a • disaster by the critics and the public. Even the Perrv's seem to believe that the film was really an impossible undertaking. \The Swimmer\ and \Last Summer,\ made in I968 and 1969 respectively, reignited that flame of potentiality first seen in \David and Lisa,\ but both films just fell short of making that flame glow more brightly. Eleanor's screenplays and Frank's direction were becoming increasingly ambitious and in some ways better, but . several flaws such as excessively obvious allegory and oppresive moralizing kept both films from being more than interesting, provocative, ambitious failures. \Diary of a Mad HousP.wife\ is the best film that the 'Perrys have made, their first largely satisfying endeavor in this medium. There are, of course, great similarities, in style and theme, between this . recent achievement and their past productions. Once again the film '·is basically an intricate psychological study of several people interacting, with major faults of their human nature and of society, sinisterly influencing their past, present and future behavior. Also, as in \The Swimmer\ and \Last Summer,\ the Rerrys concentrate ·on the ideas and in orals otthe wealthy. • The dissimilarities between \J;>iary of a Mad Housewife\ and the previous Petry films, however, make, the difference between success on one hand and failure on the other.. Most importantly, the Perrys leave out the simpleton allegory and heavy moral~ing that, when so overly obvious and overbearing, do nothing but · undermine their films. \Diary of a Mad Housewife\ is a scathiv.gly humorous and pathetic story about a young married couple on the rise in the business and social worlds of New York City. Jonathan Balser, played by Richard Benjamin, is a brilliant, Harvard~educa ted, junior-partner in an influential law firm, a stultified idealist whose g{eatest concern is to obtain social status a.nd prosperity. Tina Balser, played by Carrie Snodgress, valiantly attempts to be the kind of wife her husband wants her to be, a modetn..<fay renaissance woman, a jack of all trades - from gourmet chef, gracious hostess, fashion plate, and animated party·goer to household drudge, child phychologist, trained nurse and sex-partner·on-demand. Jonathan and Tina, believing and living according t9 the societal myth of male dominance and female passivity, have a marriage (like many American marriages) which is all surface and nothing deeper. They do not actually have . a relationship, a basic understanding of each other's needs and rights. From the beginning .of the film on, Tina becomes progressiv~ly mad (not in the sense of insanity, but in the sense of outrage), because of her husband's constant and excessive demands. The film traces. her attempt to cope with the problem - from tentative verbal rebellion to taking a lover to actually preparing to do something about her life. In \Diary of a Mad Housewife,\ the Perrys have fortunately kept up one of the better qualities characterizing their previous films. That is they have cast, in the 3 leading roles, excellent, although relatively unknown actors, who offer performanees of exceptional quality. Carrie Snodgress, in the role of Tina Balser, makes,. perhaps, the most promising film debut an actress has made in the last decade of American films. I don't want to overemphasize this point, but I consider her performance as nothing short of brilliant. (Actually this is her second ftlm, her first, \Rabbit Run\ not yet having been released.) With recent actress discoveries such as Ali MacGraw, Katharine Ross, Candice Bergen, and Barbara Hershey, giving erratically good or merely competent performances and getting a great deal of mileage out of their physical beauty, it is refreshing to see an actress of Miss Snodgress's caliber. Miss Snodgress, an unconventionally attractive, not classically beautiful girl, with a charmingly throaty voice, expertly underplays her role with an awesomely controlled naturalness. She thoroughly conveys Tina Balser's outwa:~::d passivity, as well as the inner turmoil that eventually breaks thro'ugh her calm veneer. Richard Benjamin., as Jonathan Balser, follows his impressive film debut in \Goodbye Columbus\ with a vastly different role, but · an equally outstanding performance. Although Jonathan is admittedly an extremely broad caricature, Benjamin interprets the character, with all the obnoxiousness that should he conveyed. Benjamin handles Jonathan so appropriately that after the first half of the film, every time he opens his mouth, we hope the theater's sound system will temporarily break, and every time he comes on screen, we anxiously await his exit. Frank Langella as George Prager, Tina's lover, plays the extremely ambiguous character with an appropriate subtlety that makes every nuance of expression, action, and · statement an important and revealing part of his personality. Eleanor Perry's screen play is extremely well-developed and inclusive. It contains broad and subtle humor, chuckles and bellylaughs, caricatures and unique characters, compassion and coldness, but most predominantly, a scathingly satirical bitterness and sarcasm, resulting from a feeling, of almost total hopelessness. Frank Perry's direction (aided by Gerald Hirschfeld's stunning cinematography) is at its best. He conveys visually and orally the exact surface situation. Even more importantly, however, his visuals and his sounds (particularly the lack of music) .-reflect the inner feelings of the characters and the true state of their relationships. Furthermore, the quality of his actors' performances in this film, viewed in light of Perry's past accomplishments with actors, most probably is indicative of his ability to do more than competently direct them. \Diary of a Mad Houswife\ is an extremely satisfying and though~-provoking experience, a film that should not be missed. CLASSIFIED CAR FOR SALE 1965 VW Convertible; New brakes, exhapst good condition; reasonable. Thomas Malone, Parkwoodvillage, Apt. 18, RD 2, Mechanicville, N.Y. 12118. 371- 5959 Whether youre into John Sebastian or Johann Sebastian, you should co~~ in to Center Stage. We know how important music is. And we think everybody deserves the best possible playback, at the lowest possible price. That describes :Panasonic equipment. ·We sell everything Panasonic makes. We're the nation's only all-Panasonic store. And, as far as we know, the o.nly store th<1t lets you turn on anything in the store. Hear wha't you've been 'missing. Bring in any recording, and listen to it- free. \ ... PANASONIC IS THE WHOLE SHOW!\ IN mE MINI MALL AT MOHAWK MALL; SCHENECTAD'!t' TEL. (sl•) MHfl& Opea lO:CIO a.m .. to ':30 p.m., Mo11clay throqh Satarday CONCORDIENSIS, DEC. 4, 1970 PAGE 3 Rich library Prize For Best Collection The Florence E. Rich Library Prize will be offered to the. Union undergraduate who has collected the best personal library ·Of at least thirty-five books. The prize is $75.00. RULES: l. The library must comprise 3. The entry ~ay be: at least thirty-five books owned a) a general.hbrary by the student and marked with b ~ a collectiOn centered in a his name or bookplate~ subject . . 2. The collection must be c) a collectton of a smgle available for inspection by the author or group of authors. judging committee. . 4. Paperbacks may be mcluded, but college textbooks may not. h-'--·- - __________ , ~~-~~ .. COLLEGE SHOW, DANCE AT SIENA On Saturday, December Sth, a second \ALL COLLEGE SHOW & DANCE\ will be held on the Siena College Campus by Radio Station WSNY, for all college students in the area. The Saturday evening show will feature two live groups for continuous, non-stop entertainment. A similar All~ College show last Sat (Nov. 21) attracted over 600 College students. The event, a benefit for new engineering equipment for Siena Campus Radio Station WVCR, will feature $10 dance contests, door prizes and beer on tap. Co.lege ID's are required. The second All College Show & Dance wiD be held 9:00 p.m. thru 1:00 a.m. at Gibbons Hall , I on the Siena Campus. Siena is 1 appro:xima~tely one mile south of the Latham Circle on Route 9 in Loudonville. Gibbons Hall is the first building on the left after driving into the campus and passing Siena Hall, which faces Rnn•• Q ' 5. The contestant must turn in a list .of his books, together with a single page describing the aim and purpose of his collection. 6. The deadline for submission of list and description 1s February 1, 19.71. 7. Any member of the judging committee will accept entries. The committee consists of Professor Carl N'iemeyer (English), Mrs. Caroline Danchak, and Mr. Wayne Somers (Library). Further information may be obtained from any member of the committee. DIAMANTE'S Enjoy Our Fine Home Cooked Italian Food in Ou• Comfortable Oining Room Opp. Th• Brownell Gate on NoH St,..et Open Oaily 10 to I A .M Sundays 5 PM. to I A.M Film Haps Presents \SOME LIKE IT ·HOT\ Starring Jack Lemmon Marilyn Monroe Tony Curtis Directed by Billy Wilder \One of the most hilarious com~dies in the last 20 years of American film •• Sat., Dec. 5 . SS016 7:00, 9:00, & 11:00 $1.00 Peter Pause 535 Nott Street fulton-Montgomery Community College Johnstown College Union Board Dec. 5 PRESENTS LIVE Mc5 CON~ERT 8:30 p.m. LOWER LEVEL CLASSROOM BUILDING TICKETS COLLEGE UNION Advance $2.00 Door $3.00 Tickets available only at the F-MCC Union (AC SIS) 71i2-46Sl Ext. 383

PA_GE 4 CONCORDIENSIS, DEC. 4, 1970 Drug Bust Rumors Abound, Feds Reported Staking Out ' ' Registration · Wint~r Tl.lrm· cl .. ~es wlll begin at 8:30 A.M. on Monda-y, JanJJary 4th. Student schedules will he distributed to college addres!les prior to the beginning of classes. Students who d.o 11:ot receive a copy ·of their cla-ss schedule will be able to secure a copy at the Field House beginning at 8;00 A.M. on the first day of Classe$. By DANNY SHOCKET Union College's second favorite pastime is spreading drug rumors. The latest, and winner of \Best of the Term\ is that Federal agents have come on campus to arrest students who have been dealing drugs off- campus, finding their ·clientele in local high schools an3 in Albany. The adminis·tration has discovered this plot and is warning the offending students through intermediaries. That is the most reliable version of the rumor. Some students believe that the Schenectady District Attorney has been on campus investigating heroin abuse. He has reportedly been here since the death of an anonymous student due to an overdose of heroin. For some reason, this has been a· good year for drug rumors. Earlier this year. the most popular rumor was that a coed had approached two male students offering $50 a month and a draft deferment to them if they would become narcotics informers. I searched the entire campus. and this offer was nonexistent. However, if you contact Monte Hall something can be worked out. The most optimistic rumor of The Faculty Wives cordial!. invite the International Students Association to .. Coffee this Sunday, December 6 at 3 p.m. in the Hale House Faculty Lounge. * * * * The Union College Jazz Workshop will play a free jazz concert in Old Chapel. Friday December 4 at 7:30 p.m. Featured will be Greg Chesson, piano; Matt Finley. fluglehorn • and trumpet; Dave Herzfeld, percussion; and Jeff A vri n, electric bass. * * * * Students now taking or planning to take courses in education at other \consortium\ colleges should speak with Mr. Schmidt. Registrar. in the Administration Building. * * * * The Rochester. New York Chamber of Commerce is sponsoring a PROJECt OPPORTUNITY on December 29 and 30. for the purpose of giving Seniors the opportunity to have interviews with large organizations plus many fast growing smaller ones. These interviews are free of charge, but a registration card must be secured from the Placement Office in Wells House. * * * * Information from the Council on International Education Exchange on Summer Study, Travel and Work Programs Abroad is available for review in Mrs. Beam's office, Old Gym Hall. * * * * The Madrigal Singers and the Glee Club will present a concert of Christmas music in Memorial Chapel !)D Sunday, December 6, at4 p.m. • * * * All those who wish to have their fall term activities Usted on their permanent eollege record are urged to return their Activity Forms to the Student Activities Office before they go home .for vacation. The deadtine, originally set for yesterday, Dee. 2, has been extended. Forms for those who have nepcted to pick them up are still available in the office. AU activities should be listed on the forms. the year has it that marijuana gardens are growing in Jackson's Gardens and around Richmond House, making it possible to score a number of ways around the women's dorm. Perhaps it is the novelty of their presence, but a number of freshmen girls have been labeled narcotics agents. Many of those accused have been rather good- looking, causing great moral dilemmas. Many have discovered that you can forgive some people anything. Bust scares, usually scheduled for weekends,. have provided some of the best Thursday nights in Union history. Who can forget that wonderful night late last winter when students, many of whom intimately knew people who had seen the warrants on Mr. Kleinkauffs desk, smoked their entire stashes far into the wee hours of the morning. Legend has it that one student had to slap his roommates into consciousness in order to inhale all the incriminating evidence. However, the failure of the police to show up• led to a very dull weekend. lf you have a favorite rumor, or would like to finger a friend you suspect is an agent, write to this paper, anonymously if you wish. The best each week will be reprinted, and the writer will receive a roll of aluminum foil,. Formal registration and payment of winter term charges will take place in the Field House on Tuesday and Wednesday,.. January 5 and 6, from 8':45 to 11:30 A.M. and from 1:00 to 3:30 P.M. (Some laboratory fees will be billed:at.a later date,) Students should report as follows: Last Name Report A-E Tuesday morning F·K Tuesday afternoon L-R Wednesday morning S;.z Wednesday .aftetilOQn . Students may report at a time other than above should classes interfere. Students who have schedule problems will have a notation - attached to their cla$s schedule, and they should' report to the Registrar at the Field House after seeing their ~dviser. Adjustments and changes in schedules will be made at the Field llouse Monday through Friday, January 4-8 from 8•45 A.M. to 3:30 P;M., except for the noon hour. Friday~ January 8, is the last <h\y for making schedule adjustments. \Pass•Fail\ ,requests may be f:tled during the first five d~ys of the term. There will be a special station fi;>r this in the Field House. If you are ·a senior. •• could b·e the most im~ortant year of your life. As you contemplate one of the most important decisions of your life, you will want to remember this: it is not just \a job\ you are seeking-it should be the beginning of a career. And if it is to be successful, both you and your employer must need and want each other. To help you with your decision, we invite you to con- sider the opportunities at Pratt & Whitney Aircraft. Cur- rently, our engineers and scientists are exploring the ever.;broadening avenues of energy conversion for every envir.ohment ... all opening up new avenues of explo- ration in every field of aerospace, marine and industrial power application. The technical staff working on these programs, backed by Management's determination to provide the best and most advanced facilities and sci- entific apparatus, has already given the Company a firm foothold in the current land, sea, air and space pro- grams so vital to OJJI' country's future. We select our engineers and scientists carefully. Moti- vate them well. Give them the equipment and facilities only a leader can provide. Offer them company-paid, grad!Jate-education opportunities. Encourage them to push into fields that have not been explored before. Keep them reaching for a little bit more responsibility than they can manage. Reward them well When they do manage it Your degree can be a B.S., M.S., or Ph.D. in: • MECHANICAL ENGINEERING • AERONAUTICAL ENGINEERING • ENGINEERING SCIENCE · • ENGINEERING MECHANICS lf your clegree is in another field, consult your college placement officer-or write Mr. Len Black, Engineering Department, Pratt & Whitney Aircraft, East Hartford, Connecticut 06108. Pratt & Whitney Rircraft u DIVISI'ON OF UNITED aRAFT CORPORATION EAST HARTFORD AND MIDDLETOWN, CONNECTICUT An Equ•l Opportunity Employar l ' t !}) ~

5 ses •r· 't'tt I . t Anomalous Team Of All-Americans By MIKE MESEROLE be named since t:he glory days of speedy Metra, Cal. are at the 1970 CONCORDIENSIS, DEC. 4, 1970 PAGES The Anomalous AU ... America Forgaad, Forcontre,. Anfer, Yale. halfback slots, and the explosive l'eatn is back in town, For the On defense, only two new Singalongwicz, Mich. holds uninformed few who aren't names appear, and Enviren, down the fullback position. familiar with .this outfit, the Mont. and Penom, Penn have Impressive as this backfield An:omalous Team is selected certainly come out of nowhere to may be, the three All-Irregular whenever the Anomalous All- assume national prominence, linebackers that head up the America Foundation, Inc., or the' althm.l.gh their supporters are defense could handle it. Just the !'Locker Room Irregulars,.\ a:s quick to point out that both boys th<;mght of Youez, Marshall they like. t<;> call themselves, can have been around for some tin:ie. keeping the offense honest with get together. Founded 'by Sports Anchoring the team at middle .the always dreadful Inkum, Editor Stanley W ogdward of the Unebacker oifce again is the Texas and the free-swinging late Herald TI'iibune, the \Midlands Madman\ Mentleigh; Hitter, Miss., is enough to give Foundation, 111ade Up of ta~i 111., while the defensive backfield any ball carrier the shakes. drivers, 9ut of work song writers, is staffed with such ball-hawking Al'though the presence of such and a hQst of just plain irregular bandits as SpaJiish, Maine ana huge linemen as Phattyd, Calif. persons, ~eks to pick a'll-&tar Nooncow, Ky. tend~ to give the defensive unit a college grid squads by completely In the kicking· department; mean animal look, in the unconventional means. This year Ahmfein, Hawaii the gifted backfield is evecybody•s favorite, an AU-Time Ano111alous Team island place kicker who stood the Whytecriss, Mass. · has been added to the cUITent grid world on its ear a year ago Selecting the all-time coach season team. The 1970 IrregUlars Led by such incumbent super stars as · Hunchbacher, Notre Dame and Markida, Lafayette, the. 1970 Anomalous All:-Atnerica is largely made up of repeaters fro~ previ9us campaigns with only a sprinkling · of newly discover,ed talent. On offense,, while Souper, Marquette and small college sen!)ation Soveat, Union are back on the Honor Roll, the inc!.'edible, high !)coring backfield trio of Evahm, Ore., Fertham, Ote., and Eiron, Ore. ·iS the ftrst all-one-team backfield to IHiE·· E·UROPE Round-trip OC.;8 JET, from New York For only $210* round trip, Icelandic Airlines flies. you di- rect to Luxembourg In the heart of Europe for best connections to everywhere. Dally jets. No groups to join. Stay one clay or . LIP to 45. Fly Icelandic-for low- · est fares tQ Iceland, Luxem- bourg, England, Scotland, Nor- way, Sweden and Denm\'k. · Special fares for students and groups remaining overseas more than 45 days. Major credit cards -or Pay Later Plan. Maili::oupon; then call your travel agent. *Ad.d $20 oneway on Fri. and Sat. ~-----------------~-1 . i To: Icelandic Altllnes 1 1 630 Fifth Ave., N.Y. 10020 : I (212) PL 7-8585 I i send folder eN on Lowest Jet : I Fares to Europe 0 Student ' l Fl!lre!\llJ, : I I i Name : i Stree : i CitY. : I z· I · 1 State · IP-- 1 I I 1 MY travel agent Is r I I •I I. I . I ··---------~~-------~- ~ '>-. ' ICElANDIC AIRLINES 0 J.'!J~'JJ/1!/f!JO!JJ LOWEST AIRFARES .IOEUROPE of any scheduled airline with his amazing backward heel was a tough assignment and kicks is back, as is Bobencatlyn, ce~·inly subject to argument Wm. & Mary the prolific with such established geniuses as portside punter whose· un~nny Meir, Wagner and Gaylan, ability to kick in a crowd has Drake, as well as Louisville's impressed the pro scouts. Finally, Lugger and Chattanoga's grabbing coach of the year Hozeinboy in the field. The honors is \Uncle Ben\ Locker Room lrreg;ulars, Zkonvutted, Rice who led his however, have chosen ·the bite ballclub to a major bowl by Hoechi, Minn. who, before his compressing .the ·fundamentals death last season, had managed into · ·his team rather than to consistently rally his dedicated scrapping away potential with .teams to turn back the major frilly formations. powers with effective ·platooning The AII~Tlme Team and ball control, and the Saturated with numerous utilization of a collapsable household words .and several defense that all but negated the living legends, the AU-Time opposition long bomb. Anomalous Team is an awesome collection of individuals. Nowhere is this as evident as in the offensive backfield, where the graceful Ooia, La. is a quarterback, the experienced Centuri; B.C. and the svelt and Page 8 of this issue is devoted entirely to humor. Any similarities with persons living or dead is purely coincidental. STUDENT WANTED For PART TIME CAMPUS WORK Call Gerry Seely 272wJ408 -al tk nf 1Jnltia 1630 Union Street, Schenectady Upper Union Street Shopping Area Free Parking in Rear fill OM Hand Printed anq· Embroide~ -Dresses and ·skirts Haltd Mide Shirl$, Pants.and Blouaes Colorful Scarves and ACileS$0ries Beautiful Silks, Velvet, Wool and lfrocal!es Hand-Crafted Jcweiiy ofthe East Gifts: SaadalWOQd; Ivory; ~ Othen looense :.... Pcotfumes WATERPIPES 10% Discount With Union College or Skillmore ID MAMA BIANCHI'S · REST AURA NT ' . - . . . 1135 Barrett St. Real Italian Food Cooked To Order · We Cater To Students The Friendliest Place in Town ' OPEN TO 3 A.M. FRI. a11d SAT. E T G c G T E QB HB HB FB PK E T G c G T E QB HB HB FB OFFENSE Bal, Lehigh Beticroquers, New Mex. Huyubin, Dayton Soveat, Union Souper, Marquette Lokitdahus, Vanderbilt Frivell, LaSalle Markida, Lafayette E'vahm, Ore .. Fertham, Ore. Eiron, Ore .. Ahmfein, Hawaii OFFENSE Phyfflegettm, Tenn. De·Belza, St. Mary's W:holy, Toledo Ithhadda, B.U. Hay, Baylor Zeidvoksov, New York Noaz, Ark. Oola, La. Centuri, B.C. Metra, Cal. Singalongwicz, Mich. When you know it's for keeps DEFENSE E. Cann, UCLA T Snaique, Pitt. T Hunchbacher, Notre Dame E Putimoutovis, Missouri · LB Enviren, Mont. LB Mentleigh, Ill. LB O'Howiegh, Miss U. HB Penom, ~enn. HB Livinen, Ginn. s Nooncow, Ky. s Spahnish, Maine p Bobencarlyn, Wm. & Mary DEFENSE E Depindeharta, Texas T Munova, Miami T Phattyd, Calif. E Y allerosa, Texas LB Y ouez, Marshall LB Inkum, Texas LB Hitter, Miss. HB Schuflofter, Buffalo HB O'Sakin, U.C. s Whytecriss, Mass. s Cedarczoff, Lebanon Happily, all your special moments together will be symbolized forever by your engagement and wedding rings. !.f the name, Keepsake is in the ring and on the tag, you are assured o.f fine quality and lasting satisfaction. The engagement diamond is flawless, of superb color, and precise cut. Your Keepsake Jeweler has a selection of many lovely styles. He's in the yellow pages under \Jewelers.\ ~psake~ REGISTERED DIAMOND RINGS Rongs from $I 00 to $1 O.C~O T -M Reg A H Pond Comp<>ny r----~-----~--------~----, HOW TO PLAN YOUR ENGAGEMENT AND WEDDING I Please send new 20 page boo·klet, \PI3nniog Your Ergagement .and Wed~i~g··· and full color folder, both for ooly 25c. A}so, tell r\C how to obta1n the beauhfull 44 page Bride'$ Keepsake Book at ha:f J:r.cc. F-10 I Nom•----------------------1 I Additn----------------------1 C:ty·----~----'------•Co --------• I Stoi•-~----------------Z;P----1 I L.!:~~~~~A_!!~!__!J!!_G,.!:_!~x_~~...:y!..~'!:,:.:_~~_!;,!!!J

PAGE 6 CONCORDIENSIS, DEC. 4, 1970 ttT om my,\ HJesus Superstar,\ GRADUATE SCHOLARSHIPS LOANS AND FELLOWSHIPS FOR 1971-72 American Academy in Rome announces Rome Prize Fellowships ·for young artists and scholars to do independent work in architecture, landscape architecture, environmental design, musical composition, painting, sculptm:e, history of art, classical, post-classical and humanistic studies. Application deadline 12/31/70. Rock Operas As Van guard Kosciuszko Foundation for American students of Polish descent for study in American institutions of higher learning in a variety of di!iciplines and American students .of non-Polish descent specializing in Polish language and culture. Deadline 1/15/7-1. By RAY KRISE, JR. 'The music of the counter- culture is both the vanguard and the mirror of the counter-culture. Acid rock and dope. Revolution and the MC5 (or the Stones or the Airplane). So now we have a new form of rock - the opera - and the similarities and portents of its two major works are perhaps the most encouraging of any direction we've yet taken. The works are, of course, \Tommy\ and .. Jesus Christ-Superstar.\ The direction they take is toward humanity. \Tommy\ is not a true opera in the classical definition. It is, instead, a coherent collection of songs that tells the story of a deaf, dumb and blind boy who, through his isolation from the world, feels he has gained insight into a new way of living, although 'the opera's author, Peter Townshend, never really gets around to telling us what this insight is. What Tommy appears to be into, however, is the Christian thing of loving everybody and freeing himself from earthly bonds. His mistake is that he disobeys his own rules and is totalitarian, telling his follnwers they have to wear earplqgs, eyeshades and corks in their mouths if they want to follow him. WE'RE NOT GONNA TAKE IT, say the kids, and this teaches Tommy the final truth, that each person is beautiful in and of himself, and should be alloweq to do whatever he wants. FROM YOU I GET THE STORY, etc. \Jesus Christ-Superstar\' is both a more serious and musically less significant work that \Tommy.\ Musically, ifs an updated version of \Hair and that is not a compliment. It 'has all the faults of straight operas, too - incessant ~ repetition of choral lines, awkward lines sung just to help the story along - my father once called opera the shotgun wedding of two seperate media (music and drama) and I think he is right. All the cnttctsms aside, though, .. Jesus Christ-Superstar\ is notable simply because it is the first piece of mass communication that portrays the new, true image of Jesus - he was a man, with all hunian passions and fears; it takes no guts for a god to go to the cross, it certainly does for a man. Both \Tommy\ and \Jesus Christ-Superstar\ approach their -------~~ ~~ Those who eat meat Like to sink their teeth into something. Those who do not eat meat Like to sink their teeth into something else. If this interests you for only a moment You are lost. Leonard Cohen Happy Holidays from the staff and editors of Concordiensis SCHAFFER LIBRARY ]:lOURS DURING CHRISTMAS VACATION Friday, Dec. 11, 8:30 a.m.-S p.m. Saturday & Sunday, Dec. 12 & 13, Closed Monday-Friday, Dee. 14-18, 9 a.m.-5 p.m. Saturday & Sunday, Dec. 19 & 20, Closed Monday·Thursday 9 Dee. 21- 24, 9 a.m.-5 p.m. Friday, Otle. 25 - Saturday, Jan. 2, Closed Suuday, Jan. 3, 6 p.m.-10 p.m. Monday, Jan. 4, Regular bGUn resumed (8:30 a.m.-U p.m.) respective Messiahs as, well ... as superstars. Jesus' disciples, while not exactly groupies, are the kind of hangers-on you see backstage with every rock group. Tommy's experiences while preaching are exactly the same as a rock group's ·giving a concert - lunatic fans, warm-up groups, and cops. What is implied by the two operas drawing the same parallt<l between holy men and superstars is not that the rock groups are the new priests (although a case could be made for that), but rather that there is no such thing as a superstar. The very title \Jesus Christ- Superstar\ is ironic, and can you think of a plainer name than \Tommy\? Messiahs come from the people and are part of the people. They may allow themselves to be glorified (although most glorifi<?ation occurs after their deaths), but that is only because, by adoring their spiritual leaders, the people are actually adoring themselves, which is one of the basic lessons any leader must teach. him, and so divorces himself from his people, and so loses them. Jesus, on the other band, is constantly asked if he is King of the Jews, and he always answers with, \That's what you say.\ Richard M. Weaver Fellowship for students ·in any discipline with the intent to teach in his discipline. Bachelor degree required. Deadline 1/15/71. Urban Studies Fellowship Program for students pursuing a Masters degree in urban affairs with the intention of pursuing a .career in public service. Deadline 1/15/71. -\ I said at the beginning of this column that the music of the counterculture is both the vanguatd and tne mirror of the counter-culture. So what does it have to do with ''Tomnw\ and \Jesus Christ-,Superstar\? It's a new awakening to religion. It's a religion of the Self and of one's fellows, rather than a religion of that crap-beclung monolith we call Church. It's not a new thought, really, no, not at all: it's just a return to Christianity, I guess. Love yourselves, people, and then it's so easy to love others. It's not something that's easy to do, I know that. But you have to try, you have to work at it. Dig it, people: Jesus was the first hippie, but he never ran out of patience and started throwing bombs. Well, I guess maybe we're heading his way. Maybe someday we'll even make it. Lembel'g Scholarship Loan .Fund for Jewish young men and women. Based upon financial need and educational background and interests. Deadline 2/1/71. Additional information may be obtained by contacting Mrs. Beam,. Dean of Students Office, Old Gym Hall. 'For three Generations\' fhose Who Know ..• Have been recommending • ,_ 1 • . HERSHEL MAURICE B WALTER 3 Umon Graduates in Graubart Family•• 166JAYST. But dig: Tommy actually believes the hype surrounding Merry Christmas to all, and to all a Good Night. FOR HONEST SE.RVICE ~NO G90D JfWELR'Y If General Electric can build an electric tractor, wh. y can't they build an I t . l . e ec rtccar. Geheral Electric is marketing a 14:.horsepower rechargeable electric tractor capable of speeds up to 7 miles an hour. We think it's a remarkable innovation. But an electric car it's not. As a garden tractor for home use, Elec-Trak r can take advantage of characteristics that would be distinct disadvantages in an electric car. The availability offuel is no problem for Elec-Trak. It's designed ior limitea use near electrified qructures, making overnight rerha.rging possible. The heavy weight of the hattcry, which would slow down a car, means greater applied traction for Elec-Trak. Because Elec-Trak must travel ill slow speeds to do its jobs, there are no aerodynamic energy losses to tak(' into consideration. · Still, one might expect Elec-Trak to be the forerunner of a pollution- free automobile. Perhaps it is. But there are many crucial problems left to be solved. The most important one, of course, is the development of a substantially better electric battery. Any car built today would be severely limited in range and performance, and probably prohibitively expensive. General Electric is making progress on new batteries, but there's a long way yet to, go. We've experimented with zinc- air batteries. Sodium-sulfur batteries. Silver-zinc batteries. Lithium- halogen batteries. And others. There are problems with all of them. Problems of life.:. span, cost, practicality. Despite the problems, General Electric scien_tists and engineers are working for the breakthrough that will make electric cars possible. Maybe the breakthrough is closer than we think. But we'll GENERAL fl ELECTRIC continue to work and leave the predictions to someone else. Why are we running this adl Werre running this ad, and others like it, to tell you the things General Electric is doing to solve the problems of man and his environment today. The problems concern us because they concern you. We're a business and you are potential customers and employees. But there's another, more important reason. These problems will affect the future of this country and this planet. We have a stake in that future. As businessmen. And, simply, as people. We invite your comments. Please write to General Electric, 570 Lexington Ave., New York, N.Y. 10022.

Jor e(.!ture, nt for iplines Polish the public Dean • I. CONCORDIENSIS, DEC. 4, 1970 PAGE 7 Concordy. Sports Cagers lack Height, Depth Frosh-Dominated Mats Whip Hartford, 26-14 By MARK SHU GOLL A lack of size and depth lends a quiet pessimism to the opening of the Union College basketbaLl season in the eyes of the Garnet coaching staff. However, on campus· Dutchmen basketball fans are looking forward to the season With an excited optimism never approached in recent years when Union was displaying consistently mediocre and sub- mediocre basketball talents. Gary Walters; 25~year-old ex• Princeton star and former coach c.t Middlebury Collt;ge, has taken over the reigns from Chris Schmid as Garnet mentor, and has inherited with his job. All- American Jim Tedis<:oand a six- year sub .500 streak. Union has not posted a winning season since the winter of I 963-.64, a mark which ties a record set between 1950 and 1956. His immediate goals, though, center around improving his team's defense and overcoming a serious rebounding deficiency. Walters will be forced to open the season with no player over 6- 3 in the starting lineup. Co- captain Rit Gallucci ~:tnd sophomore Jim Bolz, both 6-4, were expected to battle it out for the starting center position, but both have been idled with· injuries. Gallucci, who started in the middle last year, tore a muscle playing football and is not expected. to play for another month. Bolz, the number one freshmen pivot last winter, will miss at least the first week of action with a muscle pull in his hac~. At least until the return of Bolz or Gallucci, three sophomores. wi11 open in the frontcourt. 6-3 Tom Bacher will start at center flanked by Mike Doyle and Geoff Walker, both 6- 3. Bacher was an area high school star but passed up playing freshmen ball last season. The Watervliet native is expected to bear a considerable amount of the scoring burden. Doyle was the· frosh's leading scorer a year ago with a 16.5 per game average and added an aggressive style of play off the backboards. The surprise•of the pre-season has been Walker. Primarily a guard as a yearling, he earned a starting nod based on some fine defensive displays. Rein Eichinger, a starter last year, will spell the big men up front. The six-foot junior averaged 7.5 points per game and will add some more scoring punch with his presence. Lettermen Bob Pezzano at 6...0, 6- 2 Rich Goldberg, and 6-5 Dave Vitchok round out the reserves up front. When you speak of the backcourt you are speaking of Tedisco. The junior broke every Union College single game, single season, and Field House record as a sophomore in running up a 29.6 average, eighth best in the nation for college division play and good for All-American mention. The diminutive 5-8 star hit for 40 or more points on six separate occasions and set a school record with a single game total of 49 versus Utica. Teaming with Tedisco in the backcourt will be co-captain Dave Shames, who came on strong as a scorer toward the end of last year and finished at an 8.6 per game clip. The backcourt is where Union is really lacking depth with only junior Joel Roslyn, a six footer, who did not play last year, in r-eserve. Bob Mitchell. who was counted on by Coach Walters at guard, did not come out for the team nor did Curtis Rowe. the other starting back court man on last year's frosh team. Both played football in the fall. Walters is counting on a tough man to man defense to make up for his team's lack of size. The key to the defense is the amount of pressure the guards can exert on the opposition. If · the opposing backcourtmen cannot penetrate past the Union guards, the Garnet, according to Walters, shouldn't have to worry about their lack of height. If Union is to improve on last year's 7:..15 record, it cannot afford to give up as many points as it did one season ago. A true picture of the Garnet basketball fortunes should become more readily available after this week when Union is in action three times. The Garnet opened their campaign Tuesday night at Harpur, and host Middlebury tonight. certainly an emotional one as Coach Walters will be up against his old team for. the first time. Under Walters. Middlebury defeated Union 81-72 last year led by 6-3 forward Jim Keyes' 23 points. Keyes will return as will veteran guard John Flanagan. Middlebury is also counting heavily on 5-ll freshman AI Turner, who is rated an excellent prospect at guard. The third game of the week will see Union traveling to Norwich University on Saturday night. The Vermonters have only two lettermen ·from last year's team that dealt the Garnet a 17 point shellacking. The Panther contest Over the winter recess the Union five will be in action four times. The Garnet will meet Drew University in New Jersey on December 15 and host Loyola of Montreal the following evening. On December 28 and 29, the Dutchmen will see their annual action in the Capital District Tournament along with R.P.I., Siena, and host team is AlbanyState. Yesterday afternoon an almost completely revamped Union wrestling squad defeated a long-haired ~earn from Hartford, 26-14, in Alumni Gymnasium. The whole story was the impressive show put on by the fFeshmen Garnet performers. Union has only three returning lettermen this year and one of them, Penn Sheldon. was missing from the lineup unable to make weight. Len Solomon and captain Gary Morris are the only other varsity returnees. The match started out with frosh Alan Calabro decisioning his opponent by a wide margin at 118. Mark Zullo added five ~~e points, pinning his man in 11\e 126 bout. S~lomon, movi~~up to 134 pounds for the season opener, lost a close match by a 3- 2count. Solomon's loss was follp,wed by another defeat. when··. the injured Fred Lanes wrestled gamely but lost by decision. Bill Benedict at 150 turned in a fine performance in a 12-4 triumph. ·' Gary Gurney. the only other upperclassman on the 'tei.\m. ·rost the tough 158 bout on ·lfiding time. 6-5. Yearling Tracy Rich was pinned at 167. but Pat Wardell topped off the match by pinning his man in the first period. Captain Gary Morris and heavyweight Howie Benedict received forfeit wins in the last two weight classes. The Garnet squad lacks depth. but as was evident in the Hartford bout the team is not lacking talent. Howe,·er. an important factor in the mat squad's future is whether or not the team stays healthy. Several injuries have already hit the grapplers hard. causing Coach Gerry Everling to shift people around in weight classes. With a crop of such promising first-year men. Union's wrestling future looks bright. Hartford was not a strong test for the Garnet. however. . frosh Hoop Opens Tonight On Saturday the Dutchmen travel to the Albanv State Invitational Tourney lo~king to win for the second year in a row. Last winter Union took first in eight out of ten weight classes. and a repeat performance is not beyond the team's grasp. By MARTY BERMAN Tonight, at 6:15 p.m., the 1970- 71 Frosh basketball quintet opens its s_eason in the Memorial Field House, hosting Rockwood Academy. The outlook in the opener is not overly hopeful. Last year, the tough Massachusetts squad was rated third among the nation's prep schools, largely on the strength of their rebounding. . And although much of the height is lost from that championship '70-'71 Swim Boasts Few New Performers By GEORGE BAIN Despite the return intact of last year's freestyle relay team and the presence of two potential participants in the Nationals, swimming coach Bob McMurray is \not optimistic\ about a Winning season this year. The squad's lone diver is Mark Foster, a freshman. The ten meet season opened today at 2:30 in Foote Memorial Pool, when Union hosted the University of Vermont ·- \a tough team to beat,\ reports McMurray. Without any outstanding new material and only 17 swimmers out for the squad, he does not think the chances are very good this year of even equaling last season's mark of 54~1. tel!m, they are still highly regarded. The Garnet, on the other hand. have shown little to boast about in their pre-season workouts. In their only scrimmage, the yearlings were defeated handily by Adirondack Community College. Nevertheless, Coach Bill Scanlon was pleased with his team's defensive play. ~- Against Rockwood, Coach Scanlon will start 5'11\ Bill Carmody and 6'0\ Al Westbrook at the guards, 6'6\ Dave Hughes at center, and 6'3\ Herb Reichenback and 6'4\ Tom Combs at the forwards. - - Players to look out for are Carmody and Westbrook. Carmody, who was working out with the varsity, is an excellent ballhandler and passer. Westbrook is a leaper with a fine outside shot and good moves to the hoop. The Hartford match was the only bout before the winter recess. When the Garnet return to action on January 8. they will tackle Harpur. RPI. Hobart. and Dartmouth all on the road. The next home match is slated i·or January 30 against Kings Point, although a large turnout of Union fans is expected as usual for the RPI bout in Troy. Those students needing tr~tnsportation for the learn to ski program are reminded that a $JO.OO bus fee must be paid to the Physical Education Department before Dec. 7, 1970. The program will be held on Tuesday nights beginning in January. \We just have no outstanding new talent\ says the second-year coach. \We have more free- stylers than we know what to do with, but we're weak in the breaststroke and the diving events. It doesn't look too good for the meet season.\ The returning freestyle relay team, which finished second in the State meet at Syracuse last March, includes Steve Hill, Mike Horwath, Dave Seward; and Burt Yankiver. The last two, star seniors Seward and Yankiver are rated by McM_urray as his best swimmers; they could both compete in National events. Gold-Shooting Hoopsters Edged- By Harpur, 56-54 EXPERT Je'\tvelry and WATCH REPAIR There are few new faces on this year's team. Seward and Mark Shulman will handle the sprint events, and Tom Hough, Tom Klinkow, Lloyd Mayer, and Larry Ray are being counted on in the distance events. Rising soph star Alex Bodenstab, John Horwath, and Jim Newton are the breaststrokers, while frosh Dallam Blandy and soph Bruce Goldberg will swim , the backstroke. Butterfly specialists include Mike Horwath, Bob Szatrowski, and Hill. Workhorse Burt Yankiver will \do everything,\ according to McMurray and may concentrate on the sprints and backstroke. The Varsity swimming team DESPERATELY needs a manager and people to a§sist at meets as scorers, timers, and announcers. See Coach Bob McMurray at the Gym. The Gamet basketball team opened its season on a disappointing note on Tuesday night, bowing to Harpur 56-54. Union was beaten on a 25-foot jump shot by Colonials' star Tom Gomulka with two seconds to play. The losers, playing with three sophomores in the starting five, ran into a case of opening night jitters and came out with an ice cold shooting hand. Union did not score for the first nine minutes and 35 seconds of play, missing 13 field goal attempts and seven consecutive free throw tries in the process. ' By the time the Dutchmen finally got going they trailed 17- 0, but they had pulled to within 32-20 by halftime. Union chipped away at the lead and finally pulled even at 46- all with just under nine minutes to play. Finally, with the score locked at 52, Harput's Bob Stein sent the· home team· in front 54- 52 with 45 seconds to go. Jim Tedisco matched the two points with a pair of foul shots to even matters again, but then Gomulka provided his last minute heroics. Stein finished with 22 points and a game high of 15 rebounds for Harpur, while Gomulka added 21 tallies. For Union, Tedisco tallied 22, Rein Eichinger 13, and Tom Bacher t2. Bacher and Mike Doyle each pulled down ten rebounds. The Garnet succumbed to an old nemesis on Tuesday, their ineptitude from the foul line. Union hit a miserable 10 for 21 free throws, while the Colonials connected on 12 of 17 attempts. DARI-TREAT 1049 Van Vranken A Place To &zt and Meet Steak Dinner S I. 99 Veal Dinner $1.75 Chicken Dinner $1.75 All Kinds of Fish Dbmen & Sandwldles FREE ESTIMATES .. Our Work Is Fully GuGranteed DOWNTOWN 163 Jay St., Sc:h'dy 372-0540 OPEN TUES. & THURS. 'TIL 9 P'.M.

PAGE 8 CONCORDIENSIS, DEC. 4, 1970 CHE KNEW WHAT IT WAS TO DIE College Fires Hoary Bookstore Banditess By HOWARD EDELSTEIN Public rdations of(icer Bill Rqnson announced today, in a 32 · page report the scandalous embezzlement of over $4300 from the Campus Bookstore. Eight copies reported missing. The discovery was made on Wednesday of last week but was not revealed until the\ entire investigation was completed and reports were written. Combined forces of the Union Securi~ Police and the Schenectady Police were needed to break the case. Luckily, Detective William Dooley carne back from his vacation in time to be of great assistance. Chief Kleinkauf headed the task force and made it known from the beginning that everyone on the Bookstore staff was suspect. Several of the ladies were very indignant over the situation, but Kleinkaufs firm handling of the very touchy situation soon assured them that only the guilty need be afraid. Everyone then became very cooperative. Marvin Bellman, .accountant for the firm of Loveland, Katz and Putt, in studying the Bookstore's financial records, discovered the embezzlement and immediately contacted Putt, who called the proper authorties at the College. Inrensive study revealed that over the last fifteen years, the store's books have been methodically doctored to conceal . the stealing of funds. This immediately narrowed the suspects to three: Hildagarde Mills, Edna Johnson, and Jane Middleman. The three are the only staff members who have been working for fifteen years or longer. · Detective Dooley stated that the break in the case came when s~veral members of the Mountebanks, while trying to solder together defective parts on the recently burned out light board, discovered footprints in the pigeon droppings on the top of White Thighs were also floor of Nott Memorial. Investigators. were brought in, and the theory was formed that the embezzler stayed there in the eYening and \fixed\ the books. A .page carefully torn from the financial records was discovered crumpled in one of the 17 corners of the rpom and virtually proved the theory. \We were sure lucky that that light board burned out when it did,\ Dooley declared. \The College Community should be very happy about that.\ Deductive reasoning followed and Hildagarde Mills was arrested. It seems that she is the only person who has a key to the Bookstore and knows the combination to the safe where the records are kept. Her many ~ears of apparently faithful ~ervice to the College earned her the right to the key and the combination. Research revealed that she has deposited exactly $4,300 in her savings account at the Mohawk National Bank over the last fifteen\rears. Hildagarde confessed to the crime and was promptly fired from her job. Her penston will be revoked and the College is now trying to pressure a local bank to foreclose on h~r house, car, and television. Her name, Bill Ronson announced, wili -be removed from a desk which she denoted to the school's Library. He also stated that since all the money was recovered, the College will ask the Schenectady D. A. to prosecute only for second degree grand larceny. Hildaga:rde Mills was loved by all Union students who had any contact . with her. Students remember her as a very kind and helpful member of the B_qokstore staff and cannot understand the recent discoveries. She will be sorely missed. Frat Wounds Healed Rush Attracts Hundreds Union's one local and fifteen national fraternities are faced with the problem of overcrowding as a result of the recent, highly successful rush just completed. Arnold Malt, President of the Inter-Fraternity Council, announced that the 1970 rush netted 298 of the 329 male members of the freshman class. Bids were matched Monday evening, and the amazing results were immediately evident, Malt declared, as hundreds of eager freshmen attempted to storm the meeting room to discover if they had been matched with their favorite fraternities. The I.F.C. members worked \into the srnall hours of the morning,\ Malt stated, and took time off only for a \couple of Bud breaks.\ Needless to say, upperchiss Frat men were overjoyed at the success until it was realized that none of the Houses has the facilities to house the new members. Frank Rheingold, president of Sigma Phi Sigma, stated that his House is going to have to install at least two more taps to accomodate the overflow crowds now to be in attendence at the Big Weekend Beer Parties. The more serious matter of ~ere all the Brothers are going iO live next year will be solved, he continued, later m the term. \We are going to have to devote Hell Week to the construction of a new wing on the House, and I hope all the pledges live long enaugh to finish it,\ he chuckled. Other . .Fraternity Presidents contacted were equally ectatic over Monday's results but agreed that housing will be a problem. One President, who asked to be kept nameless stated his hope that the College will consider selling space in Richmond House to the I.F.C. Many persons were worried at the beginning of the academic year that the Freshman Class would not respond favorably to the type of social life usually found in fraternities. Mark Acne, a member of the class of 1974, said that he had never before enjoyed the type of comradship he now experiences at Beta Beta Beta. \I never before realized that beer throwing could be so much fun,\ he added. His father was a Beta Beta Beta member at Utah College of veterinary medicine. OH!TOCRY lNTIJUANA Most Pre-Meds Rejected- Union Grads Scorned by All By GARY RHEIN Only four students from Union . . \ C:ollege will . be admitted to medical schools n~xt year. A spokesman for the bio-logy department, told a horror- . stricken gathering at an emerge,ncy meeting. of pre-med students last Tuesday. The reasons behin\d the tFagic rejections of twenty-nine seniors remain conjecture. The biology departt:nent is still in a state of shock, bu.t a major shake-up in the department is expected. However, any action taken by the department now wi:ll not help the chances of Union's juniors or sophomores. \Freshmen pre-med students need not be worried about; if they have any brains; they will trfl;nsfer,\ · said a professor whose job is expected to be lost in the department shake-up. ''Any application we receive from Union will be taken with a bag of salt,\ an aqmissiorts. officer at the Yankton, South Dakota medical school, said today. \Too many of the students we have accepted have not ACNA Lauds Concordy For Paper's Excettence SCHENECTADY,., DEC., (INS) CONCORDIENSIS, the bi- weekly student newspaper of Union College, today received the American College Newspapers Association Awarcl for Journalistic Excellence for its special Pre-Election 1970 Edition. Mr. Marvin Flemin, full-time Election Special, a combination chairman of the A.C.N.A., to~ay of election statistics and political presented the spectal commentary. \We feel that this commemoratory plaque to Peter format is a tremendous step !· Weingold in a quiet ceremony forward for relevant journalism,\ m the CONCORDIENSIS said Mr. Flemm. He went on to offices. \I'm deeply honored to say that CONCORDIENSIS is accept this honor on behalf of no stranger to this award, both myself and my people on pointing to the five other the staff,\ Weingold said as he A.C.N.A. Awards for admired the shiny bronze Journalistic Excellence which plaque. grace the walls of the Editor's The issue of the newspaper for Office. which the award was accorded was the November 2, 1970 Pre- Conglomerate Constructs Causeway After much delay the Cro Crumbb Conglomerate is proud to announce the openning of the Archibold X. Crumbb Memorial Parking Lot and Expressway. The parking· lot and the expressway are located behind Butterfield Hall. They were 'recently completed by workmen working day and night to meet the demanding deadline set by the college. · The expressway will aid in providing easy access from one side of the campus to the other. Even now, as final exams begin, construction workers are busily completing work o,n the Archibald X. Crumbb Bridge which will provide safe and dry passage over the \Brook that Bounds.\ Samuel T. Hehnh, a spokesman for the Cro Crumbb Conglomerate (commonly referred to as the C.C.C.) indicated that a toll will he collected for the use of the expressway and bridge. Hehnh asked all motorists to cooperate by putting their coins in the tin can conveniently located on the eastern-most shoulder of the expressway at the southern-most entrance to the bridge. Due to a high pollution level, the lines \The ~rook that bounds through old Union's grounds\ in the alma mater have been changed to \The creek that reeks through old Union's . cheeks.\ Please note this change at all college . functions. Disease!! By SCOOP GOLDMAN Miss Sarnacki, head of the Union College infirmary, showed great alarm last night over the blossoming epidemic of lockjaw and nausea on campus. In a closed interview with several prominent Concordiensis candidate reporters, the head nurse made mention of her findings, in which she concluded that a tetanus epidemic had broken out on campus somewhere between 9:30 p.m. October 20, and 6:45 a.m. October 21. And, in fact, a hepatitis epidemic had followed suit closely thereafter during the afternoon of November 2. As a result of the little seriousness taken in the nurse's findings earlier, a chance of nipping the epidemics in the bud was passed with little concern. Treatment was made more difficult, the m.lrse stated, because medication could not be given. \It was dangerous,\ she said, \to give medication, as all the patients were recent blood donors.\ Miss Sarnacki indicated, however, that she would be unwilling to commit herself . on the cause of the epidemic. The head nurse wertt on to say that there had been some difficulty in diagnosing the outbreak of hepatitis. She said that the .school physician was having trouble determining if the yellow jaundice was being caused by heptatis or by West College ·food .. It is still too early to determine what the consequences of the lockjaw epidemic will be. It is thought that classes will become progressively shorter. It is also highly likely that both the Glee Club and the Debating team will have to be sf!ut down .. proved to be senously interested in medicine.\ The admissions officer denied the existence of a religious quota, but he said, \It is the obligation of the University to select a broad spectrum of backgrounds.'' ·. Transfer applications have already pou,re.d into the registrar's office, and it is doubtful that pro!Spective pre- med students · will apply to Union. This Will , result in recession :of student~applications, and \may cause another rise in' tuition,\ an administrative official told this reporter. Most of the rejected seniors were too distraught to plan alternate car.eers when questioned this afternoon. Some had thought seriously of· pharmacy, insurance adjusting and professiona'l dieticians. Nicholas Pillak, a rejected senior, was admitted last night to Ellis hospital as the result of a bad e:l!:perience under LSD~ He kept screeming that his mother was chasing hitn with a knife screaming, \Eat! Eat!\ Other science departments claim that they will not be affected by the event. However, there are rumors that Pres.· Martin has sent out feelers to trade the new science center for a light board. · Union Pours Blood Into College Record Union College set unprecedented records for donation in this term's blood drive which took place Oct 18 and 19. According to Mrs. Jennifer R. Crockley and Mrs. Annabelle L. Dickelick, official tri-cities representatives of the Red Cross, 296 pints of Blood were donated by the students of this institution. This exceeds the previous record high of 284.5 pints donated in the winter term of 1941, to meet World War II needs. There are several theories on the record setting performance. One obvious difference from .past years is the overwhelming presence of women on campus. The usually squeamish Union male no doubt found inspirational qualities in the long lines of females waiting to give of themselves. Another theory surrounds the mysterious \rise to the occasion\ on the part of the Phi Sigma Delta fraternity. This might have been ·partly due to the overall recognizance of their impending doom, or as a last desperate attempt to attract at least one freshman. It was disclosed late in the campaign that the Red Cross was not realiy prepared for this flood of donations. As a result mild hysteria surrounded the medical office until Mrs. Dickelick was able to come up with a fairly ingenious plan to take care of excess amount of blood. If any parties wish to bring libel suits against CONCORDIENSIS, contact John E. Hoover 465·7551. .~:.

PAGE C CONCORDIENSIS, DEC. 4, !970 CHE KNEW WHAT IT WAS TO DIE College fires Hoary Bookstore BandHess By HOWARD EDELSTEiN Public rt;.lations officer Bill Ronsoa announced today, in a 32 page report the scandalous embezzlement of over $4300 from the Campus Bookstore. Eight copies of White Thighs were also reported missing. The discovery was made on Wednesday of last week but was not revealed until the entire investigation was completed -and reports were written. Combined forces of the Union Securit.y Police and the Schenectady Police were needed to break the case. Luckily, Detective William Dooley came back from his vacation in time to be of great assistance. Chief Kleinkauf headed the task force and made it known from the beginning that everyone on the Bookstore staff was suspect. Several of the ladies were very indignant over the situation. but Kleinkaufs firm handling of the very touchy situation soon assured them that only the guilty need be afraid. Everyone then became very cooperative. Marvin Bellman, accountant for the firm of Loveland, Katz and Putt, in studying the Bookstore's financial records, discovered the embezzlement and immediately contacted Putt. who called the proper authortie3 at the College. Intensive study revealed that over the last fifteen years, the store's books have been methodically doctored to coPceal the stealing of funds. Thts tmmediatel! narrowed the ~uspects to three: H ildagarde !V1ilb. Edna Johnson. and Jane M1ddleman. The three are the onl~ staff members who have been workmg lor fifteen years or longer. Detective Dooley ~tated that the break in the case came when several members of the Mountebanks. while trying to solder together defective parts on the recently burned out light board. discovered footprints in the pigeon droppings on the top floor of Nott Memorial. Investigators were brought in, and the theory was formed that the embezzler stayed there in the evening and \fixed\ the books. A page carefully torn from the financial records was discovered crumpled in one of the 17 corners of the rpom and virtually proved the theory. \We were sure lucky that that light board burned out when it did,\ Dooley declared. \The College Community should be very happy about that.\ Deductive reasoning followed and Hildagarde Mills was arrested. It seems that she is the only person who has a key to the Bookstore and knows the combination to the safe where the records are kept. Her many years of apparently faithful service to the College earned her the right to the key and the combination. Research revealed that she has deposited exactly $4,300 in her' savings account at the Mohawk National Bank over the last fifteerryears. Hildagarde confessed to the crime and was promptly fired from her job. Her pension will be revoked and the College is now trying to pressure a local bank to forecwse on her house. car, and television. Her name, Bill Ronson announced. will -be removed from a desk which she denoted to the school's Librarv. He also stated that since all the money was recovered, the College will ask the Schenectad\' D. A to prosecute only lo-r second degn:e grand larceny. Hildagarde Mills was loved by all Union students who had any contact with her. Students remember her as a very kind and helpful member of the BQokstore staff and cannot understand the recent discoveries. She will be sorely missed. Frat Wounds Healed Rush Attracts Hundreds Union's one local and fifteen national fraternities are faced with the problem of overcrowding as a result of the recent, highly successful rush just completed. Arnold Malt. President of the Inter-Fraternity Council, announced that the 1970 rush netted 298 of the 329 male members of the freshman class. Bids were matched Monday evening, and the amazing results were immediately evident, Malt declared, as hundreds of eager freshmen attempted to storm the meeting room to discover if they had been matched with their favorite fraternities. The I.F.C. members worked \into the small hours of the morning.\ Malt stated, and took time off only for a \couple of Bud breaks.\ Needless to say. upperclass Frat men were overjoyed at the success until it was realized that none of the Houses has the facilities to house the new members. Frank Rheingold, president of Sigma Phi Sigma, stated that his House is going to have to install at least two more taps to accomodate the overflow crowds now to be in attendenee at the Big Weekend Beer Parties. The more serious matter of .\here all the Brothers are going w live next year will be solved, he continued, later m the term. \We are going to have to devote Hell Week to the construction of a new wing on the House, and I hope all the pledges live long enough to finish it,\ he chuckled. Other .Fraternity Presidents contacted were equally ectatic over Monday's results but agreed that housing will be a problem. One President. who asked to be kept nameless stated his hope that the College will consider selling space in Richmond House to the I.F.C. Many persons were worried at the beginning of the academic year that the Freshman Class would not respond favorably to the type of social life usually found in fraternities. Mark Acne, a member of the class of 1974, said that he had never before enjoyed the type of comradship he now experiences at Beta Beta Beta. \I never before realized that beer throwing could be so much fun,\ he added. His father was a Beta Beta Beta member at Utah College of veterinary medicine. OH! TO CRY IN TIJUANA Most Pre-Meds Rejected- Union Grads Scorned by All By GARY RHEIN Only four students from Union College will be adthitted to medical schools next year. A spokesnan for the biology department, told a horror- stricken gathering at an emergency meeting of pre-med students last Tuesday. The reasons behind the tragic rejections of twenty-nine seniors remain conjecture. The biology department is still in a state of shock, but a major shake-up in the department is expected. However, any action taken by the departmeBt now will not help the chances of Union's j,11niors or sophomores. \Freshmen pre-med students need not be worried about; if they have any brains, they will transfer,\ said a professor whose job is expected to be lost in the department shake-up. \Any application we receive from Union will be taken with a bag of salt,\ an admissions officer at the Yankton, South Dakota medical school, said today. \Too many of the students we have accepted have not ACNA Lauds Concordy For Paper's Excellence SCHENECTADY_, DEC., (INS) CONCORDIENSIS, the bi- weekly student newspaper of Union College, today received the American College Newspapers Association Award for Journalistic Excellence for its special Pre-Election 1970 Edition. Mr. Marvin Flemm, full-time chairman of the A.C.N.A., today presented the special commemoratory plaque to Peter J. Weingold in a quiet ceremony in the CONCORDJENSIS offices. \I'm deeply honored to accept this honor on behalf of both myself and my people on the staff,\ Weingold said as he admired the shiny bronze plaque. The issue of the newspaper for which the award was accorded was the November 2. 1970 Pre- Conglomerate Constructs Causewaij After much delay the Cro Crumbb Conglomerate is proud to announce the openning of the Archibald X. Crumbb Memorial Parking Lot and Expressway. The parking lot and the expressway are located behind Butterfield Hall. They were recently completed by workmen working day and night to meet the demanding deadline set by the college. The expressway will aid in providing easy access from one side of the campus to the other. Even now, as final exams begin, construction workers are busily completing work on the Archibald X. Crumbb Bridge which will provide safe and dry passage over the \Brook that Bounds.\ Samuel T. Hehnh, a spokesman for the Cro Crumbb Conglomerate (commonly referred to as the C.C.C.) indicated that a toll will be collected for the use of the expressway and bridge. Hehnh asked all motorists to cooperate by putting their coins in the tin can conveniently located on the eastern-most shoulder of the expressway at the southern-most entrance to the bridge. Due to a high pollution level, the Jines \The brook that bounds through old Union's grounds\ in the alma mater have been changed to \The creek that reeks through old Union's cheeks.\ Please note this change at all college functions. Election Special, a combination of election statistics and political commentary. \We feel that this format is a tremendous step forward for relevant journalism,\ said Mr. Flemm. He went on to say that CONCORDIENSIS is no stranger to this award, pointing to the five other A.C.N.A. Awards for Journalistic Excellence which grace the walls of the Editor's Office. Disease!~ By SCOOP GOLDMAN Miss Sarnacki, head of the Union College infirmary, showed great alarm last night over the blossoming epidemic of lockjaw and nausea on campus. In a closed interview with several prominent Concordiensis candidate reporters, the head nurse made mention of her findings, in which she concluded that a tetanus epidemic had broken out on campus somewhere between 9:30 p.m. October 20, and 6:45 a.m. October 21. And, in fact, a hepatitis epidemic had followed suit closely thereafter during the afternoon of November 2. As a result of the little seriousness taken in the nurse's findings earlier, a chance of nipping the epidemics in the bud was passed with little concern. Treatment was made more difficult, the nurse stated, because medication could not be given. \It was dangerous,\ she said, \to give medication, as all the patients were recent blood donors.\ Miss Sarnacki indicated, however. that she would be unwilling to commit herself on the cause of the epidemic. The head nurse went on to say that there had been some difficulty in diagnosing the outbreak of hepatitis. She said that the school physician was having trouble determining if the yellow jaundice was being caused by heptatis or by West College food. It is still too early to determine what the consequences of the lockjaw epidemic will be. It is thought that classes will become progressively shorter. It is also highly likely that both the Glee Club and the Debating team will have to be s~ut down. proved to be senously interested in medicine.\ The admissions officer denied the existence of a religious quota, but he said, \It is the obligation of the University to select a broad spectrum of backgrounds.\ Transfer applications have already poured into the registrar's office, and it is doubtful that prospective pre- med students will apply to Union. This will• result in recession of student ·applications, and \may cause another rise in· tuition,\ an administrative official told this reporter. Most of the rejected seniors were too distraught to plan alternate careers when questioned this afternoon. Some had thought seriously of pharmacy, insurance adjusting and professional dieticians. Nicholas Pillak, a rejected senior, was admitted last night to Ellis hospital as the result of a bad experience under LSD. He kept screeming that his mother was chasing him with a knife screaming, \Eat! Eat!\ Other science departments claim that they will not be affected by the event. However, there are rumors that Pres. Martin has sent out feelers to trade the new science center for a light board. Union Pours Blood Into College Record Union College set unprecedented records for donation in this term's blood drive which took place Oct. 18 and 19. According to Mrs. Jennifer R. Crockley and Mrs. Annabelle L. Dickelick, official tri-cities representatives of the Red Cross, 296 pints of Blood were donated by the students of this institution. This exceeds the previous record high of 284.5 pints donated in the winter term of 1941, to meet World War II needs. There are several theories on the record setting performance. One obvious difference from past years is the overwhelming presence of women on campus. The usually squeamish Union male no doubt found inspirational qualities in the long lines of females waiting to give of themselves. Another theory surrounds the mysterious \rise to the occasion\ on the part of the Phi Sigma Delta fraternity. This might have been partly due to the overall recognizance of their impending doom, or as a last desperate attempt to attract at least one freshman. It was disclosed late in the campaign that the Red Cross was not really prepared for this flood of donations. As a result mild hysteria surrounded the medical office until Mrs. Dickelick was able to come up with a fairly ingenious plan to take care of excess amount of blood. If any parties wish to bring libel suits against CONCORDIENSIS, contact John E. Hoover 465-7551. I I It i 'I \' , . ..., . I. I i ttj '* I ,..i e t . ,, r ~ • .. i ' ! \.

