r l J 1969 1 ~dell llent roke one, rong will :3 a the last road : no have tling, r the - 1e tnd liNG lding'' 1 1 obtain Mt I ....._I I I I I I 1320 I I ___ ... Founded at Union 'College 1B77 VOL 99, NO. 28 SCHENECTADY, NEVV YORK, JANUARY 9, 1970 PRICE TWENTY CENTS The Social Committee presents the first concert of the Winter Term as the New York Rock and Roll Ensemble returns to the Memorial Chapel at 8:30 p.m. tomorrow. Tickets are $3.50. Also appearing will be Daybreak, a new group which includes Union student Phil Galdston. On January 17, a touring company of the long-run off-Broadway hit \The Fantasticks\ will perform at 8:30p.m. in the Chapel. Tickets are $2.00 School Gets Corporate Aid. Of Over $32,000 Union College has recently Valley Community College, Russel Sage, Siena, Cobleeskill, S.U.N.Y. Albany, Skidmore, and Union. The grant is designed to subsidize book purchases at school libraries. Bronson New WRUC Chief; Plans Varied Programming Bob Ditter, newly designated Program Director and acting Station Manager of WRUC assailed what he termed the \RUC fraternity\ at the first general station meeting of the term last Wednesday night. Ditter also outlined a new, improved broadcast format which will include dassical,jazz, and folk programming in prime time slots. Charles Cusimano, who announced his resignation as Station President effective last Monday has been succeeded by Mike Bronson. Bronson's appointment was made by the Executive Board of the station at the end of last term when Cusimano announced his resignation for \personal reasons\. New Board Joining Ditter and Bronson on the reformed Executive Board are Dennis Fazio, who replaces Rich Gabrielson as Technical Director, AI Brailey, Sales Director, Kevin Drake, Music Director, Bill Holleran sports director, and Walt Spencer, News Director. Station policy, outlined by Ditter, will be aimed at getting more disc jockeys into the technical and business end of the station. 'The head of each department will make an active attempt to involve more .. jocks\ in the off-the-air business of WRUC. It is hoped that this will relieve the load on the few students now doing most of the work, and make the station more efficient, Ditter said. By PETER J. WEINGOLD Competitionls the· Word \'No one on the air can afford not to improve his air sound,\ Ditter commented. He strongly recommended that all disc jockeys become familiar with the music before their sh0ws. In order to improve the music broadcast, Ditter prornised that \competition is going to be what we work on. No air time carries tenure and anyone without a responsible show will not be allowed to continue. The format will have to be adhered to.\ The new format, which goes in to effect today, includes broadcasts of classical music five days per week, from 6-8 p.m. and on Sunday from midnight to 2 a.m., folk shows Sunday 5-7 p.m. and Tuesday midnight to 2 a.m., and gold, jazz, and acid rock-progressive shows, one night a week each in the midnight to 2 a.m. slot. College, lndian School Establish Joint Prize Union College and Indore University in India have each established an annual Shankar Gokhale Prize in honor of the late scientist. The prize, which will be an annual cash award at Union and a yearly medal at Indore, has been endowed by Maclhu S. Gokhale, a member of the class of '27 at Union and son of the late scientist. The elder Gokhale was born and educated in India and served as president of Holkar College before coming to the United States in 1911. He was an engineer with the General Electric Company in Schenectady until his retirement in 1943. He died in 1962. Highest Scores The medal at Indore University will be awarded to the student who scores highest in the final chemistry examination for the M.S. degree and to the students who excel on the final tests for the bachelors' degree in physics and chemistry. At Union, the award will be given at the annual Prize Day ceremony in tl:Ie spring, and will honor an outstanding engineering student with an academic interest in economics. • received three grants totalling more than $32,000. The first of these grants is a $2500 grant from the Reader's Digest Foundation. The grant will be added to the endowment of the foundation's scholarship, which . is presented annually. The second grant, a $24,150 award from the Eastman Kodak Company is unrestricted. The aim of the award, according to a Kodak spokesman, is to Fiji Is Hit By Robbery The younger Gokhale, a former RCA executive who is now a consultant for the United Nations, is expected to be at Union this spring to make the. first presentation of the award in his father's memory . 4 reimburse the college for part of ', l the cost of education beyond that which is covered by tuition and fees. The General Electric Foundation has awarded Union a $5,000 grant for the development of its international cooperative program in engineering, science, and mathematics. The program encourages students to spend a portion of their undergraduate studies abroad. In addition, the Capital Library Council received a federal grant of $125,000 to be shared by Albany Law School, St. Rose, Fulton-Montgomery Community College, Hudson By PETER BICKERMAN There have been notable reports of thefts on campus which occurred during the winter recess. The largest reported robbery took place at the Phi Gamma Delta fraternity house, where the stolen items amounted to more than $2,000. Large quantities of stereo equipment were taken. There is also a report that a color television set was stolen from the Delta Upsilon house. David McKeown of Phi Delta Gamma insists that the house has been appealing to the administration for better security measures over a period of several months. City Police John Kleinkauf, campus director of security, says, that the Schenectady Police Department has been notified of the crimes, and an investigation is under way. Mr. Kleinkauf has urged students to lock their doors whenever leaving their rooms vacant. School officials indicate that there has not been an upsurge in campus crime this year. However, plans have been made to increase the college security force. Local Artist To Give Chapel Organ Concert Miss Betty Valenta of Schenectady, composer, instructor and professional organist, will present the third in a series of six organ recitals at Union Coll:ege Memorial Chapel next Sunday, January 11, at 4 p.m. Many of Miss Valenta's original compositions have been played at concerts in the Capital District, and she has presented some at the Schenectady Museum. Miss Valenta received her BA in Music from the University of Rochester and her Master's in Sacred Music from Union' Theological Seminary in New York City. Works scheduled for this Sunday's concert are Bergamasca by Frescobaldi, Toccata and Fugue in F major by Bach; Impromptu by Vierne; Fugue by Honegger; Suite Breve by Langlais; and Rhapsody No. 3 on Breton Melodies by Saint•Saens. from Bogota Twenty seven Union students and one faculty member have arrived in Colombia, South Am;erica for ten weeks of study as part of the comprehensive education progra!ll. The academic program will . consist of one course in the Spanish language, another in the history, literature and culture of Colombia and the third, an independent inv,estigation or project. Topics selected by students include a study oi the 1970 Colombian elect ions, a photographic essay on Bogota and its people, and an investigation of Colombian attitudes toward the Alliance for Progress. The group will return to Union in late March.

PAGE 2 JANUARY$~197~ The response of the students returning from the Term in France has been overwhelmingly enthusiastic. The program appears to have been a complete success, not only in terms of increasing language skills, but in promoJing international good will. It is a program ·of which Union Gollee:e can be proud. Yet the program ·s success also points out the paucity of faculty in many Center I departments. The Modern Language department, for example, totals only ten men for five languages. Union's offerings in the Social Sciences and Humanities have greatly expanded and improved over the last decade, but much remains to be done. The advent of the coeducation will undoubtedly put further pressures, if nothing other than in numbers, on many of the smaller dep<~rtments. At present, Lhe numbers of faculty, which of course influences the number and diversity of courses offered, is inadequate in a number of areas. Not the least of these arc Sociology and Anthropology, Philosophy, Classics, and the fine arts. Of approximately 160 full-time faculty, these departments have only 17 members, three of whom are on sahatical this year. It may be argued that these small numbers are justified by· the extremely limited numbers of students in these fields, expecially in the upper-level courses. But ~~ must wonder how many people would want to come to· Union to major in a department of only two or three men. The construction of the seven million dollo.r science center is part of the indication that the college is ready to allocate the funds needed to maintain the unusually fine progTams in this area. The larger Center I departments, such as Economics, History, Political Science, and English, have made great strides both in quantity and quality, and we trust this will continue. But it is high time the college pledges substantial funds to the weaker departments of the school. The men there now arc doing a fine job under often difficult circumstances. If Union hopes to become an institution truly of the first rank, it must insure the strength of every discipline. An adequate expansion of the weaker departments would be a large and much-needed improvement. Henry G. Fein William Ouzer Editors-in-Chief Peter J. Weingold .................. Campus Editor Jeff Biro ....................... Business Manager William J. Holleran .................. Sports Editor Jody Saslow .................. Photography Editor M. Paul Andrews ............... Contributing Editor Richard Patterson .............. Contributing Editor Neil Kramer ..................... Editor Emeritus Staff: Robert A. Levine, Danny Shocket, David Uguccioni, Louis Snitkoff, Tony Faga, Doug Wong, M. Grossman, Mike Gottlieb, John Harrigan, Peter Bickerman, Steve Levy, Michelle Vottis, Lloyd Birns, Michael Swirsky, Neil Green, Doug Tosch, George Kaplan, Olarle~ Long, Marg Shugoll, Greg Hamlin, Mike Humber, Dennis Alsofrom, Stu Moss; BJUce Garber, Hank Levine. / letter To The Editor. To The Editor: As a member of that notorious \committee Ofl the senior year,\ and having attended the History department's meeting on camps, I have witnessed much of the process that resulted in the existing system. I recall distinctly that at least twice, once in the beginning and again at the conclusion of that History meeting, 'l inquired as to whether seniors would have to take any finals during the term in which they took camps. I was assured by the chairman on both occasions that although he could not answer for the faculty council, it was his assumption, and probably the general consensus of faculty opinion that last year's decision would again stand. There was no open dissent on this point, even when the chairman asked for opinions. If this is true, as indeed it is, then the pro-finals argument in the faculty council, as reported in Concordy, Dec. 31 is simply incorrect. Comps' reform was most certainly not aimed at eliminating interference with a student's course preparation. Rather it was made under the very assumption that there would be no finals! Moreover, one gets the feeling that if there were students present they could have told them that. Real Crux This is the real crux of the matter. Prof. AHlen mentioned in his letter that we must reevaluate the place of students on committees. I could not agree more heartily. I do not suggest that studeRts be given free reig11 to devise a curriculum, as some would advocate; but I do believe that if students are to be consulted at all, as they must be, it should be with openness, candidness, and respect. When the chairman of the history department answered my questions I had no right to, and did not, expect anyone there to vigorously uphold the no-finals side before the council. However, I do feel that I was justified in assuming that no member would work actively against that position.! \Been Had?\ Perhaps this sounds resentful or even irresponsibly bitter. It is not meant that way and I don't condemn any faculty member for his arguments. I merely wish to make a point, and that is that when the faculty takes action on issues of considerable importance to the sudents with minimal or only limited student participation, that procedure acquires the appearance of a secretive assembly. The decisioll is seemingly made behind our backs. The December 3 headline might well haveread, \We've been had.\ Personally, I think we have. If the fhculty believed that the comps were specifically· designed to remove ,the interference of fiHals and their preparation, then it was operating under a false assumption, and its decision should not stand'! Furthermore, if this j)Oint 1 could be misrepresented, couldn't others? There is a fallacy in this position of course, and I -wish to deal with it here bee ause someone is bound to bring it up if he cares to refute what I have said. There is alway~ the possibility that, although 1 .. ~.d1at I h ave recounted is accurate, it is only a partial picture. That is, it does not g() far enough because it does not include that part of the process which the stud~nt's didn't observe. Perhap~. in subsequent meetings new arguments were presented. and opinions changed. If this is so, forgive me, but I have no way of knowing beyond the Concordy report. That is the student's problem. When it comes to academic decisions, we only know wh.at we read in the paper. David G.- Lehv '70 Engineering, Math and Science Majors IBM will be interviewing on campus February 4,5 If you're interested in a career in science and engineering, programming, or marketing, sign up at your placement office. An Equal Opportunity Employer ·JANUtl ti~ By:~ Uni instit' educat Coil e1 commit ·of red legitma Stuc to Th t'throu: policy, desire· see kin~ Peter Econo1 the COl The facult) stu d1 \om·t Swec gover inve comr go V€ functi Th comn anSWI to th Pros~ inves make and: and eJCp depo .to_ th the : s, the with Con posi om1 secc ~ wor out talk stu< . coli a:re1 B Tc pre pol Un the Bo cit: sc pn fel Sc thl

197( is our 3 have. the . the was false andi! paoint ' sente d, in this I \Wish ause it what !J ay~ the wl1at g() if ar not the in new and but wing report. wh.at u ' •l PAGE 3 ·JANUARY 9, 1.970 Liaison Committee Tackles Pro:blems Large And Small atte11. tion, he added. A faculty member who takes lemon with his tea could not get any at the Rathskeller antil the committee tackled the problem. By N ~Jt; S. KRANIER r / Union is small as ins.t ituHons of higher education go, but/ the Call ege' s ombudsman committee has found plenty ·of red tape to cut and legitrnategrievanees .to aright. Students and facNlty come to The Liasofi Co:mmittee f'.through ignoran:ce of college policy, fear of retribution, a desire fat anonymitY, or just seeking a last resort,\ said Peter :Prosper, lecturer in Economics and chairman of the committee. Swedish The committeemen, four faculty members and three .students, are c a 11 e d '' om·b u·d smen\ after the Swedish word for a g ov ernme nt official who investigates citizens' complaints against the government or its functionaries. Answers The committee's strongest committrnent is to getting answers to those who come to them with complaints, Mr. Prosper said. The committee investigates all complaints to make sure they are acc11rate and provides progress reports and a written statement ex.plaining tlu final deposition of all complaints Jo_ the individual who brought the matter to them, he said. Several large universities in the State are experimenting with the ombudsman idea, Cornell having created the position this fall. Union's ombudsmen are in their second year of operation. Much of the committee's work involves straightening out · \flim~flam and double talk~\ Mr. Prosper said. Often stuclents just do not know the . college's policy in a certain area might be. Simple The ombudsmen's method of operation is simple. Complaints can be registered with any member of the cornrnittee. 0Hce they receive a complaint, the ombudsmen go from one college officia:l to another until they get a satisfactory, authoritative, response. It is not uncommon for some .problems to reach the desk of Harold C. Marti!'l, Union's president, Mr. Pro.sper said. But the committee has also \dealt with major problems,\ including the misuse of several thousaNd dollars of student tax funds, Xe.rox: the renovation of the dining hall in West Colleges and imp rove·d security for fraternint ies in co1lege-owned Problem The only :problem the commitiee could not solve to the general satisfaction of aU those involved concerned one student's comp>laint about another's conduct. (n that case the cure would have killed the patient, Mr. Prosper said. If the committee cannot protect the complainer to his satisfaction, it drops the action, he added. By providing people who come to the committee with progress reports along th:e way, \they don't ·get the notion that they have been forgotten,\ he said. The committee became involved with the renovation of the dining hall in West College, where all freshmen eat, when a faculty member complained that the poor appearance of the place hurt faculty recruitment. \We had to hit hard\ to get funds allocated, but/ the renovation was completed over the summer, Mr. Prosper said. Lemon Aid Yet the committee considers no problem too insignificant to warrant its There's one in every crowd. A Doug King, who'd rather do something than talk The other faculty members of the ombudsman comn1iHee are John Daniels, William Daniels, and· Hugh Allen Witson. The three students are Charles Hollander, John Steedman, and Rich Swan. All are seniors. Board Namettl lo nalue Boolt\ Dr. Joseph B. Board, Jr., professor and Ghairman of the political science department at Union College has been listed in the 1970 edition of \The Blue B0ok,\ an annual publication citing individuals in the arts and sciences, business and professions. For engineers who think about it. By vocation, Doug's a Manager (Test Engineering) for Xerox. By avocation, a teacher of functional illiterates. By instinct, an unabashed do-gooder. \I just feel· that if one person can be effective- really effective-it's better than 100 people sitting in a meeting.\ Doug also benefits from his avocation. For one thing, he's more patient. More understanding of society's so-called problem children. He knows why they are what they are-and what they can be. At Xerox, we like people like Doug King. Engineers who can see beyond engineering. Engineers who can feE~ I for humanity. Engineers who seek additional outlets for their talents. Dr. Board, a former Fulbright fell<Jwship recipient and Rhodes Scholar, has been a member of the Union Faculty since 1965. PROFESSIONAL TYPING SERVICE. I B \I ~ e I t' t' l r i t' l~ pcwriler. ~:quipped with (;reck attd \Ialit :-:uniH)I:-:. Your dwit'l' (;r L~pt· :otylt·. Exfwrit'llt'<'d in tlw:-:i:• l~pin~. Pirk up and cl 1 • I i ' t' r \ . C a I \ ..t.89-697B any time. of more than ·• ·• eng1neer1ng. The wish being father to the deed, Doug involved himself in inner-city programs and Rochester's Business Opportunities Operation. Doug teaches adults with less than a sixth grade education to read-on a 1-to-1 basis, just teacher and pupil. He went about this in the same professional way he tackles his daily work. He first took a course in how to become a teacher. Now, he's training fledgling instructors. On the business side, one of the·persons under his wing had never been anything more than a ianitor. Doug helped him secure a franchise from a national rug- cleaning compc;my. It's successf,ul, too. As Doug puts it: \For the first time in his life, this fellow finally has a stake in something. And he knows if he needs help or advice, it 1 s there for the asking.\ If you're this kind of engineer, we'd like to talk to you. Your degree in Engineering or Science may qualify you for some intriguing openings in a broad spectrum of developmental.ancl manufacturing areas. We're located in suburban Rochester, New York. See your Placement Director for a copy of our brochure and for the date of our scheduled campus interviews. Or, write directly to Mr. Roger VanderPloeg, Xerox Corporation, P .0. Box 251, Webster, New York 14580. An Equal Opportunity Employer (m/f). XEROX

TO THE EDITOR: In recent months there has been much discussion within the college community concerning the steadily rising cost of the college experience and whether or not we, the students, are in fact receiving services in proportion to expenditures. As indicated by the continuing record of major burglaries during vacations we believe this institution falls far short of its responsibilities in the domain of security. The campus police are understaffed and seem to be unmotivated to do more than go through the motions of patroling this campus. Perhaps hiring more patrolmen Huntley Elected Accreditation Commissioner Dr. C. William Huntley, chairman of the Psychology Department. has been named to the Commission on Higher Education of the Middle Atlantic Association of Coli eges and Se<.;o n dary Schools. The commission reviews accreditation renewals and requests of colleges and universities in the region, which includes New York, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Delaware, Maryland, and the District of Columbia. Presently, there are 350 members of the Middle Atlantic Association. One of six similar organizations in the United States, it evaluates institutions of higher learning. Dr. Huntley, was elected to a three year term as a commissioner on the board which passes final judgement on institutions seeking accreditation. He has been affiliated with the organization for more than 10 years. DIAMANTE'S Enjoy Our Fine Home Cooked Italian Food in Our Comfortable Dining Room Opp. The Brownell Gate on Nott Street Open Daily 1 0 to I A.M. Sundays 5 P.M. to 1 A.M. THE PEANUT STORE Featuring PLANTERS HOT ROASTED PEANUTS and Nutmeats from all ovar the world. 406 STATE ST. would solve the problem, however, we think not. The burglaries at Phi Gamma Delta, which took place during this Christmas vacation, indicate the use of a master key since each room was unlocked and relocked after theft. Over $2,000 worth of personal belongings were stolen in this one instance. This is not a problem unique to this fraternity nor is it one which has only recently occurred. Other houses and living units have been val'ldalized for many years, yet surely this is no reason to allow this situation to prevail. Lack of administrative concern is blatant. We, as a group, cannot acquire property insurance because these buildings, in the view of insurance companies, cannot be adequately secured. Surely the college is responsible for a deg1:ee of security which at least meets the minimum requirements set by insurance companies. Had this occurred at a priva,te home it would have constituted a major robbery with the appropriate investigations. Since we are only students all that we receive are shrugs and condolences. Some people say that security is a blanket; we wonder if this is not all it is at Union College. David M. McKeown Jr. '71 ZELL~IER'S NORGE LAUNDRY AND CLEANING VILLAGE AT 1559 V/I.N VRANKEN DRY CLEANING 8 Lbs. $2.00 4 lb. M,n $1.00 DRYERS 10 Min. 10 AVE. (at Hot:tie Street) WASHERS 1 2 Lb. 20 Lb. 30 Lb. Open Mon.·Fri. 8 A.M. to 9 P.M.· Sat. 8 A.M. to 5 P.M. Closed Sundays IF YOU HAVE NEVER HAD NORGE DRY CLEANING DONE WE CAN BET YOU WILL BE AMAZED .30 .:rs .50 NO, we are not the MOST GLAMOROUS JEWELER in town, but our selection of DIAMONDS{ WATCHES, &JEWELRY will match any. DALE JEWELERS 163 JAY STREET SPECIAL STUDENT DISCOUNTS! OPEN til9:00 TUES. & THURS. 372·0540 JANUARY 9, 1970 RAYTHEON on campus January 15,.1970 We neecl., and would like to talk to BS and MS Candidates in: ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING MECHANICAL ENGINEERING INDUSTRIAL ENGINEERING MATHEMATICS PHYSICS For work in: RESEARCH and DEVELOPMENT DESIGN /MANUFACTURING QUALITY CONTROL ENGINEERING ENGINEERING WRITING SCIENTIFIC PROGRAMMING Sign up for interviews through your Place- ment Office, or .write Manager of College Relations, Raytheon Company, 141 Spring Street, Lexington, Mass. 02173. An equal opportunity employer National Lead wants you! Go with a company that's really going places. National Lead's 50 divisions encompass over 200 prod- uct lines -everything from paints and plastigs to nuclear .fuels and space age metals. Annual sales approach a billion dollars. And our 200 plants, labs and offices are located throughout the country and throughout the world. With a BA/BS, MAIMS or PHD in just about any area of science, engineering or administr1;1tion, you'll go far with National Lead. Our interviewer will be on campus and happy to give you more information on the date below. Or write to our College Relations Manager, National Lead Company, 111 Broadway, New York, N.Y. 10006. January 15, 1970 National Lead ·1\,.~~ · I ~ An equar opportunity employer.

I ' JANl::JARY 9, 1970 Blither Balloting for freshman class offices will be held Tuesday evenirrg January 13 in West College. Petitions are available in Room 225 Davidson and are due January 12 in the Student Activities Office. **** A meeting on the January Vietnam Moratorium for all interested and concerned students will be held this corning Tuesday; January 13, at 4:30 in Silliman Hall. **** The Uni0n College Big Brothers will present the movie \The Harlem Globetrotter Story\ Saturday, January 10 at 1:30 P.M. in SS 016. Other community groups are being invited. The movie is also open to the student body. **** All persons interested In creating a nucleus of leadership for responsibly militant action for Environmental Betterment will meet in SS 110 at 4:30p.m. on Monday, January 12. **** The next meeting of the ACC is on Thursday, January 15, at 7: 15 p.m. in Davidson Lounge. **** The next meeting of the Student -Faculty Bridge Club will be held on January 13, at 8: IS p.m. in the Hale House Faculty Lounge. All those who are interested are invited to attend. **** The New York Chapter of the American Marketing Association will hold its fifth annual INTRO Conference at the Park-Sheraton Hotel in New York on Thursday and Friday, February 26th and 27th. Open to graduating seniors and graduate students, the conference will bring together students looking for their first full-time job with personnel recruiters from leading companies. Interested students may obtain registration forms for New York INTRO '70 by writing the New York Chapter, American Marketing Association, at 527 Madison Avenue, New York, New York, 10022. WANTED • Campus Representative · Unlimited Commissions No Investment, No Paperwork Write for information to: Miss Barbara Kumble College Bureau Manager Record Club of America 270 Madison Avenue New York, New . York 10016 Phone 372.0528 PARK PIZZERIA Italian Grinders Our Specialty Behind Davidson Hall- One Block from tho Campus 25 Perk Place Schenectady, N.Y. PAGE 5 ~· Come as you are! JANUARY 26, 1970 Now's the time to sign up at your placement office for an interview with the Bethlehem Steel Loop Course recruiter. This could be the start of something big! And just what IS the Bethlehem Steel Loop Course? Glad you asked! It's our management development program for graduates with bachelors' or advanced degrees. Bethlehem loopers (150 to 200 every year) spend four swinging weeks at our home offices in Bethlehem, Pa. Then, primed with information about the entire corporation and rarin' to go, they re- port to the appropriate plants or departments for their first assignments. Then, onward and upward! Where would YOU fit into the Loop Course? Check your degree or the one most similar to it: MECHANICAL ENGINEERING-Engineering or me- chanical maintenance departments of steel plants, fabri- cating works, mining operations, and shipyards. Fuel and combustion departments. Supervision of production operations. Marine engineering assignments in Ship- building Department. Also: Sales or Research METALLURGICAL ENGINEERING-Metallurgical de- partments ot steel plants and manufacturing operations. Engineering and service divisions. Technical and super- visory positions in steelmaking departments and rolling mills. Also: Research or Sales. CHEMICAL ENGINEERS- Technical and .supervisory positions in coke works, mcluding production of by- product chemicals Fuel and combustion departments. including responsibility for operation and maintenance of air and water pollution control equipment. Engineer- ing and metallurgical departments. Steelmaking opera- tions. Also:. Research or Sales. INDUSTRIAL ENGINEERING-Positions in steel plants, fabncati ng works. shipyards, and mines. Engineering and maintenance departments. Supervision of steel- making, rolling. manufacturing, and fabricating opera- tions. Also: Sales. CIVIL ENGINEERING-Fabricated Steel Construction assignments m eng1neering, field erection, or works management. Steel plant, mine, or shipyard assign- ments in engineering. construction, and maintenance. Supervision of production operations. Sales Department assignments as line salesman or sales engineer (tech- nical service to architects and engineers). ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING-Steel plant, fabricating works, mining operations, and shipyard electrical en- gineering, construction, and maintenance departments. Technical and supervisory positions in large production operations involving sophisticated electrical and elec- tronic equipment. Also: Research or Sales. MINING ENGINEERING-Our Mining Department op- erates coal and iron ore mining operations and lime- stone quarries, many of which are among the most modern and efficient in the industry. This iO,OOO-man activity offers unlimited opportunities to mining en- gineers. Also: Research. NAVAL ARCHITECTS AND MARINE ENGINEERS- Graduates are urged to inquire about opportunities in our Shipbuilding Department, including the Central Technical Division, our design and engineering organi- zation. Also: Traffic. OTHER TECHNICAL DEGREES-Every year we recruit loopers with technical degrees other than those listed above. Seniors enrolled in such curricula are encour- aged to sign up for an interview. ACCOUNTANTS-Graduates in accounting or business administration (24 hours of accounting are preferred) are recruited for training for supervisory assignments in our 3,000-man Accounting Department. OTHER NON-TECHtJICAL DE.GREES-Graduates with degrees in liberal arts, business. and the humanities are invited to discuss opportunities in the Sales Department. Some non-technical graduates may be chosen to fill openings in steel plantoperations and other departments. WHEN YOU SIGN UP be sure to pick up a copy of our booklet, \Careers with Bethlehem Steel and the Loop Course.\ It tells it like it is. BETHLEHEM STEEL An Equal Opportunity Employer

PAGE 6 JANUARY 9, 1970 Hot-Scoring Tedisco Breaks Marks; Hoopsters Face Harpur Tonight _ Despite two record~break.ing erformances by talented (i)phomore guard Jim Tedisco, the Union basketball team has managed only 1 win in its first 8 games. The Gamet were in action 5 times over winter recess, picking up their lone win over Drew, 93-78, while losing to Baldwin-Wallace, 81-6 7, Pace, 76-75 (in overtime), and Capital D·i st rid Tourney opponents Albany State and Siena. Sharpshooting Soph The brightest spot in Union's 69-70 campaign thus far must be the play of the 5-8 Tedisco. A graduate of Bishop Gibbons High School in Schenectady, he has been piling up points at nearly a 29 per game clip, while improving his play-making with every game. Tedisco poured in 44 points in the Dutchmen's one win, despite sitting out 10 minutes of play, to set ~ Union and Capital District colleges individual game _:lcoring mark. His 19 field goals SCHLOCK Anyone who wishes to p.lace a team in the I ndependent Basketball League should give their roster to . Bob McKenzie, 3 50 Fox, by Wednesday January 14. Freshmen can participate in this league, which will begin competition on Monday, January 17. Pennel Esso Service No1t Street Corner Of Van Vranken tEACHERS NEEDED Teaching opportunities for beginning and experienced candidates in private schools coast to coast. Education courses not required. Write. SCHOOL SERVICE BUREAU Post Office Box 278K Windsor, Connecticut 06095 Tel: 203 -·688-6409 Graubart & ·Sons may run small ads, but they have big values. Schenectady's famous diamond snop, for three generations) 166 Joy St. Three Unian Graduates in Famil\1. By GREG HAMLIN and MARK SHU GALL The hoopsters return to YearlingsWinless also set a school reeord while falling 1 short of the Capi.tal District record. rebounding statistics with their new defense. Gallucci pulled in 15 rebounds against a tall Baldwin-Wallace team even though the Garnet were defeated 81-67. action tonight with a home The freshmen cagers have The backcourt star put on a near repeat\ performance in the consolation round of the tournament, scoring 42 points agaiast Siena, while setting tourney records for scoring and field goals (10). Tedisco also established the marks for most points (69) am! most field .goals (26) in the touma1nent. In Capital District action, Union opened against eventual titlest Albany State, The Dutchmen led for most of the first h,a]f before falling 71-60_ The next night Union ran into an unusually hot Siena squad. The Loudenville, N.Y., team hit on 50% from the floor and opened the game by connecting on 20 of their first 30 shots, while running up a 94-70 win. contest against Harpur, The .seen action twice, losing tc State school is led by 6-0 Tom Midd.lebury, 62-60, and to· Siena Gomulka, a 27.3 points per 93-78. Top point producers .fo1 game sharp-shooter. The yearlings are 6\5 .center Jim Bob Colonial's second ·leading scorer (15ppg), 6-3 Geoff Walker (lL is Schenectady's Toby Gabriele, ppg), and 6-3 Mike Doyle (13.~ a 6-1 soph scoring at a 17.0 clip ppg). Tlie frosh make their nex per game. Harpur is l-3 this appearance at H0bart or Among the Garnet's problems has been a distinct lack of height. Due to injuries, Union has been forced to play with a 6-3 center, Rit Gallucci. 6-6 Bill Boehmke is still being bothered by a shoulder injury and ha~ seen little action. Switch to Zone Another bright spot has been the recent play of sophomore Bob .P ezzano. Pezzano has gained a starting role while becoming the team's number two scorer. season. January 16th. Hoop Statistics ' . PLAYER GAMES FG FGA % FT FTA % REBS. ASST. PTS. Tedisco 8 89 206 43% 52 78 67% 22 12 230 Pezzano g 22 37 59% 3 7 43% 30 3 47 Gallucci s. 20 34 59% 6 16 38% 74 3 46 Eichinge:r 8 18 38 48% 9 9 10()% 20 2 4-5 Getman 8 18 46 40% 2 4 50% 37 6 38 Shames 8 13 34 38% 11 15 73% 18 12 37 DeLuca 8 12 28 43% 10 15 67% 21 7 34 Team Totals: AVG. 28.8 5.9 5.8 5:6 4.8 4;6 4.5 In an attempt to compensate for this lack of height, Coach Schmid, a firm believer in the man-to-man defense, has b~Pt:\ Although the Dutchmen playeg a zone only once in 21 games last year, they have shown improved Rein Eichinger, Jim Getman, Barry Fitzgerald, Dave Shames, and Gary DeLuca have also seen considerable action. DeLuca has since been lost to the team for the season due to an injury. FG FGA % FT FTA % REBS. AVG. J>TS. AVG. DOUGLAS Schenect~dy 's reading Men's Shoe Stare BOSTONIAN* BATES* WALL-STREETER HUSH PUPPIES* WALK·OVER * SEBAGO.MOCS MANSFIELD* SNOW & AFTER SKI BOOTS Phone FR 4-8577 319 State Street Schenectady, N.Y. Union 223 517 43%111 184 60% 337 42 557 69.6 Opponents 235 524 45%172 238 72% 385 48 642 80.2 NEWEST LU~CH 715 Albany Street I Specializing: - HOT DOGS WITH FAMOUS SAUCE - DINNERS AND SANDWICHES - TAKE-OUT ORDERS - Union Students Favorite Spot -. (Serving Schenectady Since 19211 $10FFPURCHASEOFSHOESUPON PRESENTATION OF I. D. CARD Mon.-Thurs. 7 A.M.-2 A.M. Fri.·Sat. 7 A.M.·4 A.M. 'sun. 9 A.M.-1 A.M. r-----------------·-------------------------------, Be~r twice as popular as tt was ten years ago This statement is true for Genesee Beer. It's not true for any other beer around. Of all the beers at your store or tavern, only Genesee shows a 100% increase in sales over the last ten years. -Obviously, millions of beer drinkers have discovered that Genesee gives you more of what you buy a beer for ... smoother body ... more real beer flavor ... a snow-cold, crystal-clear, consistently great-tasting beer. Make your next beer the popular one ... Genesee Beer. We'll do anything to bring you~ better beer GBCO, Rochester, N.Y. I I I ~------------------------~------------------------' ·• foui VOL. 99, '1\1 0. .29 SCHE Theodore- Mcllwaine Col_lege Official, Dies I Theodore R. Mcllwairie, a: Union Alumnus and business manager of Union College for the past 21 years, died early Sunday morning January 11 ~ ' in Ellis Hospital after a brief illness. He was 61. A native of Plattsburgn and graduate .of Plattsburgn High School, Mcllwaine was a pioneer in combining education in liberal arts and engineering, a full generation before the college made such a combination part of the formal program. He entered Union in 1926 and received his B.A. degree in 1930. He worked for a short time for American Telephone & Telegraph, then retmned to Union in 1932 to take a .!lecond degree-, graduating again in 1934 with , a B.S. in civil engineering. President's Statement President Harold C. Martin of Union said in a statement issued Sunday: \Ted Mcllwaine's life wa.s marked hy two consuming interests, his family and Union College. To both he gave f;ult energy and affection. Because of his many years of association with Union, as student and as officer, he became in effect t h e me m o r y o f t h e institutioil, for better than anyone else he knew the ~ history of its inner workings over a long period of time. Friendly, scrupulously fair, and constantly available, ht represented both for those i1 the college and those outside who had dealings with it the happiest combination o institutional loyalty an< personal integrity. With hi gracious wife, he formed par of that close communit~ which is the core of a smal college. His death is a loss t< all of us.\ He is survived by his wife the former Lillian Stone whom he married in 1936; : brother, a daughter, thre• grandchildren, and a nephew. \The Fantasticks\ will I in Memorial Chapel. David broken the record for thE advance for Union Men and Blues Guitarist B, B Kin the Social Committee Caler • •

PAGE 2 :oegrading System After an a:bsrnce of one year, Professor Shinagel 's proposed twelve- point system is once again upon us. The Su1dent Seaate will meet tonight, after polling the campu.s. to debate again the issue before sending it on to the Faeully CounciL Although not formally linked to the long-awaited Pass-Fail proposal now before the Faculty, we have the distinct impression that many of the more conservative members of the faculty will not approve Pass-Fail without a \firming-up of the grading system. In an era when students are demanding fewer specific ties t0 a grading system, we find the twelve-point proposal singularly unacceptable. The :implicit tlueat lhat without ,its approval, there will be no Pass-Fail is pc.litical_blackmail. We feel. however, that the Pass-Fail proposal now before the Faculty does not go far enough. One course per term ,is better than none, to be sure. The ideal systnn, ho~ever, would be an unlimited option. There will h·e many students, who will desire grades in various courses, whether it be for graduate or professional school or simply for their own curiosity. They deserve to know how well they have performed_. For the record, the four points we have now are safficiertt. Union prides itself on its small classes and personal contact between. students and professors. Anyone who desires to know how he has performed can, even now, see his professor on a personal basis. Twelve points simply serve no positive purpose. Their introductio11 would make little difference in the academic climate. It is our view that grades are at best an approximatio!ll. and that to further define them is usdess. Furthemwre. the presentation of the proposal at the same time that the long-postponed deeision on Pass- Fail will be made strikes of the lowest forlll of .. wheeler-dealerism.\ College Seeks Zoning Change To Buy Land By PETER J. WEI NGOLD The college ha:s recently acquired an option to buy a large tract of land on Van Vranken Avenue according to R. Gordon Bingharn, Special Assistant tOo President Harold C. Martin. The lmad, Joe ated just north of th.e campus in the former Niskayuna Club and was owned origina:Uy by the Alco Club. Both clubs developed the land and the college would acquire a swimming pool, skating rink, and cafeteria in addition to the large aieas Sllitable for playing field.s. Mr. Bingham stated that the college is waiting to learn ,the decisi011 of the Niskayuna County Plan.ning Board which meets on January 20, before ·definite acquisition plans are made. \The land has to be rezoned if it is to be suitable for our purposes,'~ he said. \We plan to use tl1.e lapd for an intercollegiate football and baseball field anci use our present fields for intramural sports. At present there are no plans to erect any buildings on the vacated field should we acquire the new land. plans to erect any buildings on the vacated field should we acquire the new land.\ \The pool and skating rink would be availabe for the exclusive use of the college community, except by special arrangement,\ Mr. Bingham added. The college is also looking to buy the county Library located on Ut'lion Street and Seward Place which has been vacant for almost a year. The old building, temporarily occupied by the County Mental Health Board, will be up for closed bid auction in a few weeks. Mr. Bingham felt that the college would probably be the only bidder for the building which would be used, if acquired, for unnamed academic pursuits. A proposed road which would cut directly through the property has been under consideration since 1948 and is not seen as a threat to current college plans. JANUARY 13, 1970 Faculty Considers Pass-Fail One a Term., Two Yearly By STEVEN LEVY used m the calculation ot a Board and two students, one The Curricular Affairs Committee, chaired by Dean Palmer, has submitted a pass-fail proposal to the Faculty Council, which will be considered at their January 20 meetiNg. It is a revision of the Student Senate's proposal and adds It is a revision of the Student Senate's proposal and adds a statement clarifying the status of pass-fail courses in calculation of the student's index. The proposal states that students would be permitted to take two free electives each academic year on a pass-fail basis, but no more than one per term. A student wishing to take a pass-fail course must notify the registrar by the fifth academic day of the term. Professors will not be notified if a student is taking their course pass-fail. Translate Once The registrar will translate the student's grade into a P or an F. Such grades will not be DIAMANTE'S Enjoy Our Fine Home Cooked Italian Food in Our Comfortable Dining Room - Opp. The Brownell Gate on NoH Street Open Daily 1 0 to 1 A.M. Sundays 5 P.M. to 1 A.M. HOME TYPING AND SECRETARIAL SERVICE 377·6053 Rates: 30c per page for typing - $2.00 per hour for dictation Free: cc, minor corrections student's index. In the event from each center. that a student changes his P.rof.iciency major, pass-fail grades •taken The following points were in courses in that £ield will be discussed by the committee changed to letter grades. 011iy concerning proficiency 'li n d e r t h i s s e t o f exams. If credit is to be cifcumstances may a pass-fail granted the exams ahould be grade be translated into a ~de 11p and administered by letter grade. Grades thus union College Faculty. by changed may not revert back Union College Faculty. Union to pass-fail. It is the CoJ,lege should continue its responsibility of the stttdent advanced placement program. ~o notify the registrar of all CEEB exams should be pass-fail courses when considered as a possible changing his major. means of receiving credit. The This system \)\/Ould be quality ef a particular exam reviewed by a committee of and its relevance to the Union faculty and students at the Course should be determined end of the first full academic by a Union College Faculty year. Member. The Curriculm Affairs The Committee voted 7-1 Committee, which is studying .to support in principle the the entire gradiag system granting of course cT<edit from pass-fail to a 12 point toward a degree thr:ough system to the use of proficiency exams. proficiency exams for The Committee wil'l meet granting course credit, will weekly this term beginning continue its work this term. January 15. The Chairman of The committee is the Student Curriculum composed of one . faculty Committee has been invited member from each center, to attend as an observer. the deans of the centers, the Minutes of the Curricular c h a i r m a n of t h e Affairs Committee are on file Comprehensive Education in the Library. :DOUGLAS SchencctaJy's l.caJI!lg .\fen's Shoe Store BOSTONIAN* BATES* WALL-STREETER HUSH PUPPIES *WALK-OVER \SEBAGO.MOCS MANSFIELD* SNOW & AFTER SKI BOOTS Phone FR 4-8577 319 State Street Schenectady, N.Y. $1 OFF PURCHASE OF SHOES UPON PRESENTATION OF I. D. CARD NEW YORK T() LONDON- SUMMER VACATION TRIPS- ROUND TRIP $169~ NOW FILLING - SMALL DEPOSIT AND PAYMENTS- SEND FOR FREE DETAILS. STUDENT GLOBE ROAMERS BOX 6575 HOLLYWOOD, FLORIDA 33021 UNDERWRITER'S lABORATORIES, INC. Will be At Union Ja.nuary 19 for: Electrical Engineers Sign UP At Placement Office JANUARY 13, Unio . Mo·ur Williatn E promiftent att, entertainment finance fields, : of Union, has l the board of t Mmmt Sinai He Mr. Jaffee patron of th< Moder~ Art, a the Metropolit trustee of By LOUIS~ In response Advisory Com to Presiden Environmen released last A called \E1 Teach-In, Inc. students, con conservationist nationwide spring. The teach for April 22 encouraging ~ the country tl activities on , and in their cc organiz.ing cc Widespread p the teach-in c the movement nation to th facing the c 1 environment : of life in Ame Ray Kr coordinator program vimnment !\ , pIa ns last environment the same goal The wC'ckend place someti1r Accurd committee, present stud oppo rtunit~ involved, ~· t;Ommunities and civic lea< [0 meet , . i m measurabl<

e JANUARY 13, 1970 Union Grad Named to . Mo·unt Sinai: Trustees William B. Jaffee, a promiRent attorney in the entertainment and corporate finance fields, and a graduate of Union, has been named to the board of trustees of The I Mo11nt Sinai Hospital. Mr. Jaffee i~ an original patron of the Museum of Moder~ Art, a benefactor of the Metropolitan Museum, a trustee of the Jewish Museum, chairman of the art advisory committee of the Hopkins Center at Dartmouth College and a trustee of the New York Eye and Ear Infirmary. After graduation from Union, Mr. Jaffee attended Col urnbia University Law School. He also holds an honorary doctor's degree from Dartmouth. Save The World By LOUIS SNITKOFF In response to the Citizens Advisory Committee Report to President Nixon on Environmental Quality released last August, a group called \Environmental Teach-In, Inc.\ headed by students, congressmen, and conservationists. is planning a nationwide teach-in next spring. The teach-in, scheduled for April 2:!, is aimed at encouraging students across the country to orgainize such activities on their campuses , and in their communities. the organiz.ing committee said. Widespread participation in the teach-in could be vital in the movement to awaken the nation to the \grave crisis facing the quality of the 1 environment and tl1e quality of life in America today.\ Ray Krise, Union's coordinator of a related program called \En- vit:onment!\ announced his . pI a ns last week for an environment weekend with the same goal as the teach-ins. The weekend is slated to take .. . place sometime in March. Accvrdillg to the committee, the teach-ins pre<;ent fitudt'nts v.. itb the opportunity to become involved, along with L:Ornmunities, l•rganizations and L:ivic leaders in an eflort ro meet d probl~m of immeasurable consequence. Many reno\vned scientists have long expressed the fear that we are rapidly destroying the world we live in and they have been ignored. The crisis continually worsens and our environment can be saved only through a united effort such as the teacl1.-in, they said. Pacifist Speaks Gordon Zahn, a noted religious pacifist, will speak in S.S. 016 tonight at 8:00p.m. Mr. Zahn is author of a book entitled GERMAN CATHOLICS AND HITLER'S WAR. His speech is being sponsored by the Union College Newman Association of Schenectady . .Gordon Zahn, a conscientious objector during the Second World War, has been prominent in the Peace Movement. He is a member of the Board of the Catholic Peace Fellowship, of which he was also a founder. Mr. Zahn is presently a professor of sociology at the University of Massachusetts, Boston. Born in Milwaukee in 1918, he attended the College of St. Thomas and the Catholic University of America, rece1v1ng his doctorate in sociology from the latter in 1952. Professor Zahn was a Fulbright Scholar in Germany during the years 1956-1957. He continued his research in Austria in the summer of 1961. PAGE 3 If you don't like the w~y people talk to, each other, we'll pay you to change it. We're in the communications business. And during the next 30 years we're going to upgrade all the equip- ment we now have in order to provide even better 'Service to our 6 million existing customers. As if that weren't enough we're also goingtq have to come up with enough new equipment to provide telephone service to about 26 million more people. As well as equipment for a much rnore extensive data com- munications program. We need enough people (electrical, civil, nechanical and industrial engineers, designers, accountants and economist~) to plan, design, build and operate a company that will be four times bigger than we are today. We also need engineers, researchers and scieniists to develop electronic switching equipment, laser and other communications systems we'll be using 10, 25 and 50 years from now. Butthis is only one part of our communi cations business. Our Sylvania people, for example, are involved in other types of communications. Like color television sets, satellite tracking stations and educational television systems. Automatic Electric, Len kurt, Ultronic Systems and some of our other companies, subsidiaries and divisions are workirlg on advanced types of integrated circuitry, electro-opticals and co~nm unications systems be- tween people and computers and between computers and computers. So if you think you have something to sa}f about the way people talk to each other ... we're ready to I isten. General Telephone & Electronics Equal Opportunl(y,ErnpiO'-yN I

PAGE 4 Cagers TOp Colonials, 68-57 By GREN HAMUN and MARK SHUGOLL Displaying a well-balanced offense and an adequate defense, the Union basketball team rolled to a Friday night 68-57 victory over Harpur, before an elated crowd at Memorial Field House. The win, the second for the Garnet in nine starts, was highlighted by the scoring of soph sensation Jim Tedisco and junior Dave Shames. Tedisc'o garnered game-scoring honors with 25 markers, whi'le Shames, hitting consistently on key shots from the outside, had eleven. Playing perhaps their best ball of the year, the Garnet went into the lead early in the game, emerging at The New Year holds prom!Slng developments for Garnet wrestling fans, as the grapplers are already on their way to a nut her out standing season. A pronounced lack of depth, however, remains on the horizon to cloud Garnet hopes. The Dutchmen began the season in fine style, walloping lbrtford on December 3, 35-3. The matmen f~11lowed the season opener by winning big in the December 6 Albany State U. Quadrangular Tournament. The Garnet grapplers demolished squads from Albany State, Rochester, and Williams--grabbing eight out of ten first places, one second, and a lone third. Union racked up :· total of 98 points to 51 for SUNYA, 44 for Rochester, and 41 for Williams. First-year coach Gerry Everling, however, was quick to point out that his squad was hardly tested in their first two outings, and added that his team lacks any depth whatsoever. \'We have only 16 kids including freshmen,\ Everling commented, \If anybody gets hurt, we'll be in rough shape.\ In addition to their depth problem, the Garnet are faced with their usual tough schedule--featuring such perennially tough opponents as Kings Point, Colgate, St. Lawrence, and RPI. The Dutchmen and the Engineers collide this Saturday afternoon at 3 pm in Alumni Gym. RPI sports a deceiving 2-4-1 record so far, having lost to M.I.T., Colgate, Hofstra, and Bucknell--the last three of which, according to Everling, are \pretty decent\ squad~. The Engineers also wrestle the Red Raiders of Colgate ag·1in tomorrow. Although RPI will most likely enter Saturday's meet bruised, battered, and 2-5-1, they will nonetheless be tough for the Dutchmen. Last winter the Garnet eked out a 16-15 triumph over the Engineers, although three of this year's starters on the RPI squad posted wins over their Union opponents. Coach Everling expects a \good tough match. We should take five wwigh ts, but the other five are tossups.\ half-time with a .slim 41-39 advantage. During this first period Tedisco hit for 19 of his 25 points. For most of the first twelve minutes of the second half, Union maintained its somewhat tenuous lead. However, with about eight minutes to go, the Dutchmen went on a scoring tear, hitting for ten of the next eleven points in the contest. With l :30 left in the game, the Garnet had iced the victory, holding a comfortable ten point edge, 65-55. Balanced Effort Rit GaHucci, Rich Goldberg, Bob Pezzano, and Barry Fitzgerald also played a vital role in the victory. Besides contributing six points to the offense, Gallucci led the Garnet quintet in rebounds, grabbing 15. Goldberg came off the bench and poured in nine points, while Pezzano and Fitzgerald held the Colonials' second leading scorer, Tony Gabrielle, to three points, almost 15 below his game average. Harpur's leading scorer, Tom Gomulka, was also shackled as the Garnet defense lirni ted him to 21 points, seven below his previous per game output. The Garnet will engage in two away contests this week, meeting Hobart and Alfred on Friday and Saturday, respectively. The next home game will be the 24th against Kings Point. Mermen Win First, Beat H.arpur 63-39 By BRUCE GARBER Saturday saw the Garnet mermen continue first-year coach Robert McMurray's undefeated string with a oJ-39 win over Harpur College. In action before the holidays, the swim team tied New Paltz, 53-53, even though many Union swimmers were not _able to compete because of exams. Despite the early scheduling against New Platz, which left many Garnet mermen in poor shape, freshman Steve Hill. in the 200-yard backstroke, recorded great efforts for the Dutchmen. sophomore Tom Kilinkow McMurray has quickly and captured the one and three compentently trained sports, respectively, in the breaststroker John Horwath gruel~ng 1 000-yard freestyle. for the job. In what might Hill and Peter Goddu have been the biggest surprise f~l!owed the san;e p~ttern, of the season, Horwath nearly pilmg up another SIX pomts in topped his opponent, Starr of the 200-yard freestyle. The Harpur. Garnet . sw.ept . the . S?-yard . Next Saturday, at 2:30pm freestyle With the team s sole m Foote Memorial Pool the senior,. captain Dave Seward, Dutchmen will attempt to touching out teammate extend their unheated streak Needell for the win. against Norwich. Finding himself without any divers this year, Coach College Ski Ticket Less than a week after returning from vacation McMurray pitted his men against a mediocre Harpus squad. With only five practices behind them, the Garnet won nine of twelve firsts, and captured seconds in two other events. at HAYSTACK for l\lini l\loney The Garnet used the first four events as a springboard to a 27-7 lead. Needell, John Horwath, Bob Szatrowski, arid Mike Horwath opened the contest by easily taking the 400-yard medley relay in 4:07.6. Burt Yankiver and All Area Ticket $3.25 l\londay · Friday (Sorry-Not Good Feb. 16-27) Bring Your Student I.D. Wilmington, Vermont JANUARY 13, 1:970 High-scoring Garnet sophomore Jim Tedisco puts up two of his 25 points in Friday night's 68-57 win over Harpur College. The victory upped the hoopsters' record to 2-7 Photo By GEORGE KAPLAN Let the world know you're in love. Sing it out withdelightful new Harlequin letter rings byQuintessa®. Now ring your fingers with the letters of Jove: his initials with yours, L.O.V.E., Y.E.S. or even M.A.Y.B.E. Fun! But morethanthat. These rich circles of 14k gold ,.each a letter charmingly formed by the Harlequin, are graced with beautiful, spark! ing emeralds. It's new, it's young. And it's priced to be easy and fun. New Harlequin letter rings by Quintessa. Just arrived, for you. Only sixty dollars. USE YOUR MASTER CHA.RG CARD Graubart & Son:; . Schenectady's famous diatnond shop, for three generations 166 Jay St. Three Union Graduates in the Family ,I' SCHENECTADY, ,1\ Di .... The meeti1 approve of the recom change falltcfl RFK Aide Challenges: The went would free el not nK A pro notifie .. taking and grades stud en registn grades The re would stud en that given stud 'en revert Change Unjust Society By NEILS. KRAMER A former aide to the late Robert F. K~nnedy and a prospective candidate for state attorney general challenged an audience of wyll-to-do. college students to forego some of their personal well-being \in the cause of a more just and peaceful ., society.\ Adam Walinsky, 33, examined the new politics with about 150 Union students last night. His strategy for social change, the union of \an educated, ., comfortable elite,\ with discontented workingclass whites and the black and brown- skinned victims of ' racism. was like that of Mr. Kennedy in his 1968 campaign for the Democratic , . presidential nomination. Don't Pay Equally Though all Americans \Share equal quilt for the plight of the black American, we do not pay equally,\ he said. \We all pay some taxes, \ 1 of course: but the price of disturbed neighborhoods and troubled schools and racial violence in the street--that price, the real price of .. r Professor James W. Morley, a specialist in Japanese politics from Columbia University will speak on \Japan: Sword or Chrysanthemum\ Tuesday, January 20, at 7:45 in the Social Sciences Auditorium. Previously an il!lstructor at Union, .Professor Morley spent the last two years as an assistant to. the American Ambassador to Japan. · · awakemng JUStlce, we leave to the man who now casts his vote for the Wallaces and Procaccinos of this world,\ Mr. Walinsky told the Union audience. Speaking with mannerisms, plll'asing, and tempo strongly reminiscient of Mr. Kennedy, Mr. Continued un Page 2 Th{ propo~ profes CAC Dump Approves ( The Curricular Affairs Committee yesterday voted not to support the proposed twelve-point grading system. Professor Samson Ullmann, spokesman for the committee, said that the 5-1-1 vote against the proposal took into consideration both a Student Senate Poll and a poll taken of the faculty. Both polls were conducted at the request of the committee. The Student Senate poll showed that students were overwhelmingly against the proposed change. The faculty poll indicate,d a bare majority of the fo,culty were in favor of the change. Route The Committee's recommendation will now go along with the twelve-paint proposal to the divisions, the faculty council and the general faculty meetings where the issue will be debated and resolved within the next several weeks. At the meeting the Committee also voted una nil the Interd \Con Studi( stude1 Russi~ langu: sy s t • sociol Th involv profe~ in IV brol advc: E the ..__ _________________________ ......J· • ,.

PAGE 2 Gordon Zahn, Pacifist, Speaks On Church Morals By LOUIS SNITKOFF Dr. Gordon Zahn, u member and founder of the Board of the Catholic Peace Fellowship, speaking in SS 016 Tuesday night, discussed the history of the Catholic Church as a pacifist influence in society. Dr. Zuhn begun by analyzing the Church's attitude. us it exists today, concerning war. He criticized Card ina I Cook for his recent speech in Viet Nam in which he said \The military man is the agent of freedom and security in the world.\ Zahn argued that no modern war is just and no Christian should participate in an unjust war. Lauds Pope colleges', the Church's repeated excommunication ·of conscientious objectors. and the lack of communication between the Church and parents of these boys. as f:IUJ.ts in its outlook. Zahn recommended legal advice for c.o.'s as well as th1e establishment of universal respect for those morally opposed to the war. The Church must \Deglamorize tlQe historical as well as ... the current treatment of war.\ he said. Dr. Join Zahn urged all Christians to join organizations and protest movements and to write letters to their congressmen in an effort to mold public opinion regarding the war, and implored that those who refuse to join do attempt to understand their motives and to \spread this understanding among the members of the Christian community.\ Finally. he expressed his opposition to members .of the Church hierarchy who are currently calling for a change in the Church's attitude regarding the war. \We don't need a new attitude; rather let us return to the attitude held by Christianity in its first three centuries,\ Dr. Zahn concluded. JANUARY 16, 1970 Adam Walinsky Spea,ks Out On ,Our Inequities, Proposes Needed Chang:e WaliHsky scored Governor Nelson Rockefeller for not ordering the state attorney general to begin immediately a major statewide effort against criine in this state.\ The Governor does Hot have to ask the legislature to commission this kind of .investigation, he said. New York has exactly the same kind of problems as revealed in New Jersey. and if the Governor said \All right. Louis (state attorney general Louis Lefkowitz), go to it!\ then New York would get the kind of investigation it needs now, Mr. Walinsky said. Two per cent of the attorney general's office's efforts in 196 7 were directed to 1he investigation of organized crime, Mr. W a !ins ky said, and ''no attorney general slwuld be satisfied with that kind of perfonnance.\ Phone 372-0528 PARK PIZZERIA Free Delivery Italian Grin de rs Our Specialty Dr. Z;Jhn, who is currently a Professor of Sociology at the University of Massachusetts. lauded Pope P;1 ul for his continued expression of concern for peace throughout the world. He then asserted, however, that words must be translated into acts. both on the part of the Church, and at the individual level. He went on to suggest a series of actions which would make the Church a symbol of pacifism once again. ·Cedric Whitman, chairman of the department of classics at Ha111ard University will lecture here on Tuesday, January 20, in SS 016 at 11 :30 a.m. on \The Heroic Paradox.\ Prof. Whitman is nationally recognized as an authority on ancient Greek poetry and drama and modern Greek literature. Among his numerous publications on classical Greece are the books Sophocles, A Study of Heroic Humanism, Homer and the Heroic Tradition and Aristophanes and the Comic Hero. Graduate Programs Enumerated, Outlined Behind Davidson Hall · One Block from the Campus 25 Park Place Schenectady, N.Y. He cited compulsory ROTC at many Catholic The American Philogical Association has twice honored Prof.Whitman for his scholarship and he was cited by Oberlin College in 1961 by being named Charles Beebe Martin lecturer in the classics. By DAVID J. UGUCCIONI Union College's Graduate Program is expanding. This student went through three and a half of schooling before realizing that Union College had a cohesive graduate ~tudies program. The school catalogue lists ten Masters and two Doctorate degrees offered by the College. 0 n e of the Doctoral programs, Administrative and Engineering Systems Fanny Hill As Flic: Not Good, Not Dull By DANNY SHOCKET It is unfair to judge a picture like \Fanny Hill\ on its artistic merit. The producers of the movie had no intention of creating a work of art, so let'sjudge the film on how _well it accomplishes what it sets out to do. In other words, does it get you hot. and keep you in that state for the length of the film. Unfortunately, \Fanny Hill\ is a pornographic failure. Where did they go wrong? The first mistake these '73 Elections President Bill Adams - 152 Andy Morin - 54 · Vice-President Joel Passinault- 103 , Ty Harrington • 91 Swedish filmakers made was the selection of Fanny Hill herself. The girl has a pronounced resemblance to Mick Jagger, a dubious asset for any actress. Her face is remarkably inexpressive, an unnecessary requirement in a good skin flick, but most of the film is close·ups of the faces. Not only does this lead to frustration on the part of the viewer, but I defy anyone to distinguish between Fanny Hill's orgasmic rapture and the expressions other actresses reserve to depict labor pains. The second mistake was the script. Instead of depicting a wanton whore, the screenplay tells of a young countty girl who looks for and finds true love. Tht:i · lowest Fanny sinks, is to a kept woman. Much of the film is devoted to Fanny and her lovers looking at each other in what is meant to be spiritual love. \John and Mary,\ at the State, does it much better, and is even more erotic. The last mistake that was made was the most crucial one: the movie is too good technically. Most of the fun of a skin flick is that we think we are viewing something we shouldn't be seeing. \Fanny Hill\ is in color (not even washed out color) and money was obviously spent on the picture. A real skin flick should be shot in underexposed black and white. solely in a cheap motel room, with women (and if necessary, men) who look like degenerates. Everyone in \Fanny Hill\ looks like a professional actor who is doing a job. It is just too good to be believable. One last observation: when they used to show a person who misses her lover, the actress would see other couples on park benches looking longingly at each other. In \Fanny Hill,\ the actress sees naked couples making it on the grass. It is obviously not what you say, but how you say it. All things considered, we need tnovies like •'Fanny Hill,\ playing .at the Proctor's Programming is one that is multidisciplinary. When examining such problems as air and water poilu tion, transportation systems for the future, Natural and Social Sciences would have to be consulted as well as the various branches of engineering. For this year, seven candidates have been accepted already with an eventual goal of 12 to 20. Money that is being used to fund the Graduate Program is not making the under graduate program poorer. The moneys are being received by the college in the form of grants that would not be available if the graduate program was non- existant. Grants will possibly be made available for the funding of the undergraduate program because of the existance of the graduate program. According to Professor Gardner Ketchem, head of the Mechanical Engineering Department, the Graduate Program will not impoverish the undergraduate program in terms of the undergraduate education offered. In order to attract top men to the various departments, research possibilities have to be made available. Students in a graduate level are necessary for this research. In order for the research to have any magnitude, it is necessary for the professor to delegate parts or areas of it to graduate students in the form of thesis requirements. Two men already hired primarily to teach graduate courses in Professor Ketchem's department, have proven to be excellent teachers of undergr(!duate courses. Professor Ketchem said that not too many professors would be hired strictly for graduate requirements. Student airfares to Europe start at $120 starting now Icelandic has the greatest travel bargain ever for stu· dents ... our brand new $120* one·way fare to luxembourg in the heart of Europe. If you're travelling to or from your studies at a fully accredited college or university, and are 31 years old or under, you qualify for this outstanding rate. It's an individual fare, not a charter or group; you fly whenever you want, and can stay up to a year. Inter- ested? Qualified? Call your travel agent or write for Student Fare Folder CN. Icelandic Airlines, 630 Fifth Ave. (Rockefeller Center} New York,N.Y.10020. *Slightly higher In season. A> ICEJ.ANDIC AIRLINES '0 JJJTJlJJ.IJJJJ peak STILL LOWEST AIRFARES TO EUROPE of any scheduled airline. JANUARY 11 With th after an al of last ye< special su special on , college op tiH1C on punctuwte1 at irregul aJ Howevt FACSIMIJ n:raupower no attemp Now, structured returns. W instead of emphasis' by this n more c CONGORI As alw across a polemics contribu ti offerings FACSIMI and our it problems campus c campus p level of ( student FACSIMI platform mode off . ,.,

JANUARY 16, 1970 FACSIMILE With this issue FASCIMILE returns to the c<.Nnpus , after an absence of two terms. First begun in the faH of last year, the magazine sectioil (fHickJy became a : special supplement on specific campus issues. A special on co-education appeared at a time when , college opinion was emergit~g publicly for the first · time on that issue aHd another on Fraternities punc.tuated the debate on that topic which flares tqv at irregular in terv:als. , · However, the early promise shown by the ,, FACSIMILE fell to the practical problem. .of ' n1anpower and copy and: last spring and this fall saw : no attempt to continue Lhe magazine section. .• Now, with a somewhat different purpose, ji structured along less severe lines, FACSIMILE : returns. We are back again as a magazine section but i instead of the in depth focus of our predecessor our ;! emphasis will be features and opinion, which we hope !' by this means to keep distinctly separate from the !i more concentrated news content of!' CONCORD lEN SIS. i. As always, contributions of any sort are welcome 1: across a wide range from photography to poetry., i' polemics to satire. We hope for occasional' contributions from many people to supplemeRt the, offerings of our regular cadre of writers. Editorially FACSIMILE is independent of CONCORDIENSIS and our intention is to turn our attention to national problems as well as those campus initiated and: campus oriented. We operate on the Lelief that • campus publications should he a barometer of the! level of concern and capacity for comment of the • student body and hope, believing this, that FACSIMILE can become a vital and respected platform for opinion of any kind, regardless of its mode of expression. 'By M. PAUL AN DR!EWS There is a reason for the recent reappearance of several seven-to-ten year old Prestige label record albums bearing the notation \Electronically R.emastered for Stereo.\ The reason is that there ·lms been a minor revival of blues among students of the cunent music scene, and particularly in the geNre of folk blues sung by a soloist accompanying himself 0n acoustic guitar. The ge1~re is one in which Prestige Records .Jnc. specialized throughout most of the past decade. It is probably both vague .and erroneous to claim a '\revival\ in folk blues. The fact is that blues is at the base of aU rock modes, as mt~ch in the serious efforts of the Be a ties and Stones as in the pap of bubble gum and blare of Clapton or Hendrix. Before he became well know Eric Clapton was re-working Robert Johnson's ''Cross roads Blues\ via electric guitar and backup group (the version can be heaPd on \What's Shakin' ,\ a montage of unrelated recording studio tapes pieced together by Elektra to capitalize on the Lovin' Spoonful's sudden fame when they came into vogue in early 1967 ). Hendrix learned guitar whiling away long hours on the back porch of his Seattle home listening to Big Bill Broonzy records. Nevertheless the emphasis during the past few years has been on electric blues of the sort resident in Clapton, 131 oomfield and the Butterfield Blues band, John Mayall, and more recently Taj Mahal and the Fleetwood Mac. During this time the original folk bluesmen-Robert Johnson, Sleepy John Estes, Furry Lewis, Mississippi John Hurt, Fred McDowell, Leadbelly, Blind Lemon Jefferson, and others who recorded during the late 20s and the Depression-have been available only on worn recordings, absent from the stacks of even the mofe conscientious record stores. Even the flock of urban blues artists, including Dave Van Rortk, John Hammond, Tom Rush, Eric Von Schmidt, John Koerner, Dave Ray and Tony Gl'over, Mark Spoe Is tra, Ian Buchanan, Geoff M uldaur and Danny Kalb, who converged on the Greenwich Village scene in the late 50s and early 60s and wo were faithful to the tradition of the original bluesmen have foun.d little representation on record racks in recent years. Most buyers have been either ignorant of them or not interested. Folk blues. which was washed along with rather than rode the crest of the folk music revival of the first half of the 60s, .since then has fallen into hard times. The urban bluesboys have either gone electric or deserted the popular recording scene. Now, however, folk blues or close derivations thereof are experiencing renewed interest-at least, a semblance of a \revival.\ The Stones reflected and thereby encouraged this renewed interest in \Beggar's Banquet,\ particularly with \Prodigal Sons\: and their new release, \Let it Bleed,\ follows suit. Mayall sounded perfectly serio-us but had to seem silly in his statement on the cover of \Turning Point\. that \the time is right for a new direction in blues music\ toward \low volume music.\ Whether conscious of it or not,Mayall was merely rediscovering his own roots. And of course the prodding force of Pentangle, led by brilliant acoustic blues guitarists Bert Janach and Robert Renbourn, cannot be discounted in the revival. The reissue of the Prestige recordings, then, is a well-timed one, with an eye toward capitalizing on the reopening folk-blues market. Some of the outstanding urban-blues artists to appear on the Prestige label include Tom Rush, Dave Van Rank, Geoff Muldaur and Eric Von Schmidt. Rush's two Prestige albums, which he did before defecting to Elektra, feature him doing largely solo work ace ompanying himself on guitar. The first album, \Blues Songs, Ballads,\ is mostly traditional folk music and blues, including \More Pretty Girls,\ \Barb 'ra Allen,\ \Stackerlee and \Cocaine.\ His second album, •'~Mind Ramblin',\ concentrates more on blues. Particularly Rush does excellent arrangements of \Duncan and Brady\ {compare Van Rank's version from which Rush learned the song on Van Ronk's Mercury album, \Gambler's Blues\ PAGE 3 originally issued utn.ler the· title of \Black Mountain Blues,\ and the version Spider John Koemer does on the Koerner, Ray and Glover Elektra album, {\Lots More Blues, Rags, aFJd Hollers\) and Jesse Fuller's \San Francisco Bay Blues\ (Fuller's original version can be heard on unother Prestige album aptly entitled \San Francisco Bay Blues\). .In \Duncan and Brady\ Rush uses open D guitar tuning, a standard mode which he went on to personalize in later albums with Elektra. Van Ronk's album on Prestige is part of a Prestige \folksingers\ series that apparently never saw full development. Van Rank, who has done better albums (\Just Dave Van Rank\ on Mercury is his best), does mostly traditional blues highlighted by a very effective ..1 ~ - > w - ILUE5 talking-blues treatment of \Cocaine.\ E r i c V o n S ch m i d t ' s Prestige album, called \The Folk Blues of Eric Von Schmidt,\ features traditional material (\Titanic \Down On Me,\ \Jack O'Diamonds'') mixed with some original Von Schmidt works (\Champagne Don't Hurt Me Baby,\ \Cocoa Beach Blues\). The blend is a pleasant one. The album's cover, incidentally, can be seen on the front-cover photo of Bob Dylan's \Bringing It All Back Home\ album. Dylan refers to Von Schmidt both on his first album, \Bob Dylan\ in his WIY talking introduction to \Baby Let Me Follow You Down,\ an adaptation of Rev. Gary Davis'· \Baby Let Me Lay It On You\ (Van Rank does it · on \Just Dave\) which Dylan first hear from Von Schmidt, . and in the liner-notes insert to his later album, ''The ·' Times They Are A-Changin'.\ On his album Von Schmidt is accompanied on second guitar by Geoff Muldaur, a somewhat underrated blues artist who has a solo album, \Sleepy Man Blues,\ on Prestige. Muldaur has a delicate, trembling alto voice which sometimes sounds like a 1 Continued on Page 6 l ! '

PAGE4 By WILLIAM OUZER When President Martin, with the authorization of the trustees, approved the living unit parietal plan last spring one high ranking faculty member said, \Well you've made your bed. Now, get laid in it.\ It is possible that this. gentleman felt he was cuHing through the secondary concerns of \student responsibility\ and \f reedorn in an academic community\ to the crux of the matter. Perhaps it is this sort of hasty, simplistic thinking that prevented a complete argument and final resolution of the pad.ctul problems. Today the system is in its third term and all seems to be going well. One flare up early in last term involving campus police and a students date has not reoccurred but glad as one might be that no reaction was born of that one must be genuinely disturbed that the opportunity was not taken b)' those in authority to use this incident as the basis for the ironing out of the ambiguit)' in the parietal regulations o~ defining and coming to terms with the problem as it stood and as it stands until this day. Unless there is some sort of unraveling of the public policy and the private stance the college now takes there is danger always constant in twb important areas. The first is the prosecution and discipline of a student for the violation of a rule which is vaguely worded, seldom discussed and taken for granted, in common knowledge, to mean something entirely different than it actually does. In the minds of most students the rules permit guests to stay in students' room overnight. As there are 24 hour visiting rights available and concomittant rules prohibit only fornication this is neither an unnatural or scandalous conclusion to draw. But, it is most obvious from the student handbook that such lodging is not specifically authorized. On the other hand it is also equally obvious that such lodging is not DIAMANT~E'S Enjoy 0\lr Fine Home Cooked Italian Food in 0\Jr· Comfortable Dining Rl)Om Opp. The Brawn•ll Gat• on Nott Street Ope.n Doily 1 () to 1 A.M. Sundays 5 P.M. to I A.N.. Graubart & Sons may run small ads, but they have big values. ~ Schenectady's famous diamond shop, · for three generations~ 166 Joy St. Three Union Graduate' In Family, specifically c0ndemmed. In a community that prides itself on its words tile passages on the topic are d..ecidely useless to one making a careful study of the matter: \Students ilre encouraged to arrange .well in advance for any special occasions for private accom1111odations for women visitors.when they are expected to stsy overnight 1) in nearby hotels or motels or 2) living units which have been cleared ·for weekend .guests. Women visitors may be in residence in fraternity houses only as groups on Friday and Saturda)/ 1111ights when approved by the Dean of abuse ofprivilege will cause it to be withdrawn. Where this stops being an admo:Aition and starts being a threat is difficult to say. However, in light of the vagueness of the definition of the privilege it assumes a posture formed of much less of the admonishment. To begin with there is encouragement of the student to find other accommodation for his guest and then the set of rules for clearing J:iving units and the hours guests may be visited if they are staying overnight. This limitation on visiting privileges appears to be a direct contradiction of the feel no moral objections to the rules even as constituted would be naive, and to thin I< that qualms about the parietal liberalization as they were verbalized last year were purely !lased on educational or practical concerns is equally naive. The major inhibiting factor, that area in which there was the .least genuine dialogue and that area which became the taboo which led to the vague wording, and the non-existent monitoring of the parietal' system was the moral issue. The president has told us on more chan one occasion that he does not feel it is the proper place of the college to Paretals Unsolved Problems' Students. On these occasions men must ~1111ove to other quarters and .may not be in the areas on Saturday and Sunday from 3: a.m. to 8:00 P.m. As treated h.ere the lodging question firstly- '\encourages\ accommodati0ns for women guests other than in private rooms but goes no further. We are asked to view this encouragement in light of the knowledge ;that \When private actions offend public mores and establish (sic) patterns of behavior they cause repurcussions in the entire college c<Jmmunity and endanger the future of student cletermined parietals.\ In other words idea of unlimited visitation. Technically, a visit is possible at any time if there is to be no lodging if,however. there is to be sanctioned lodging then visiting is to be curtailed. It is naive of officials to think that they are preventing wrongdoing by this somewhat confusing turn of regulations. Perhaps more important than this problem of ambiguity and vagueness is the second problem we suggested. That problem is the failure of the parietal regulations, the circumstances of their founding and their occasional review to come to any real terms with the moral issues behind the decision. To believe that college officials take sides on political matters. It is ridiculous that the same ban of non-participation should occur in moral issues. It is further, sad, to see students chafe under a system which is not as clearly defined as by their actions they believe it to be and officers or the college genuinely troubled by the \liberal\ rules kept from the tension between them. For surely those on both sides of the are made uncomfmtable but the same energy behind their respective moral positions as this great gray area still exists. That the parietal decision of last year stopped short of a real completeness is therefore JANUARY 1·6, 1970 clearly most untortunate. Failure to come to terms with the admitteclly difficult mora:! questioR led to an ambJiguity ia the str-ucture of the new regulations. And, if .this ambiguity was not inherent in the wording of the rules it has grown up among the flOnexistent attention paid .to the rules since. The mor.al question stood between the drafters of the legislation and concise statements ofpurpose and ·operation. Further, it has left unanswered serious moral questions on the part of some college officials and stymied discussion that cou]id have provided a real ·outlet for viewpoints on both sides. For, in this process, there is very much to be learned in both directions. The students from the experience and perspective of their elden and most importantly those elders learning about and coming to understand the sometimes different r:noral stances of those they guide. It is mast important then, that before. forced to by unfortunate circumstance which might tamper with the sincerity and intent of the discussion, serious attempts be made to explicate the moral problems and views on both sides of the parietals problem. And after a complete discussion of vvhat sort of gaps in opinion exist and efforts on both sides to come to understand the other action must be taken to f,inish the work begun last year. r--------------------------------------.-----------1 I I I I I e beer has a taste that's ten feet tall The premium hops that give Genesee Beer its real beer flavor actually grow ten feet above the rich earth of the great Northwest. They ripen in that bright sunlight and then they're picked and sorted and selected so that only the best are ever brought East to round out the flavor of Genesee Beer. We travel thousands of miles across the country-and ten-feet up in the air- to make Genesee a little more exciting than any other beer. Try one today. We do everything to bring you better beer GBCO, Rochester, N.Y. I I I I I I I . I I I I I I I I I i I 'i . I •, ' .... I·'~ <I • JANUARY F R E D America's comic strip for the meandering rnind in a But, indeec unswervir profundity undecorate island arti: the cartoon The cor to convey feeling as ' his fictiona ~long new, lines of w nothing !1 haiku. Dr. A reknown sociology FRED M the closest most poig the ennui modern nH art wor meagernes: dialogue i spirit -of r of which often. Wh: AND ALi we see in too, make THE PLANTE . and Nutr 1125 Enioy ~

70 h is al al is ts rs e e e e n a r. I I t ~ PAGE 5 , JANUARY 16, 1970 I 'I I r .T : ~ ,;, I·'~ <I • ,....Hi, Fn:d.. Fred & AI Kicker It's Not Just Peanuts A CAUSA FRED AND AL, The roots of this st:rip, in a letera:ry and historical: sense, can be traced back at !least as far to the anonrle of Durkheim and more ~recently to the more depressing works of Malraux. However, perhaps the most powerful single inflwence on the genre has been the drama of Samuel Beckett, Nobel Prize winner. For, in a very real sense, Fred and A.l, are both Godot. PERSA PAROLE ASSAI America's slowest rnoving comic strip, is easily mistaken for the poorly drawn meanderings of a confesed mind in a confused world. But, indeed, there is a basic, unswerving, undeniable profundity to the rather undecorated work of the long island artist who composes the cartoons. . Frank Zappa Is Alone On Hot Rats Ed1tors .Mote: . I · u d d' t h. h alb · I M b The comic strip attempts to convey much the same feeling as does Salinger with his fictional Glass family, but (!long new, less conventional, lines of what can be called nothing less than graphic haiku. Dr. Arnold Purdett, reknown authority in the sociology of art has termed FRED AND AL, \perhaps the closest and assuredly the most poignant portrayal of the ennui common to all modern men. The uncluttered art work portrays the meagerness of man, the bland dialogue is well within the spirit ·of ritualistic absurdity of which Camus spoke so often. What we see in PR ED AND AL is the same nothing we see in other men as they, too, make haste slowly.\ THE PEANUT STORE Featuring PLANTERS HOT ROASTED PEANUTS . and Nutmeats from oH over the world. 406 STATE ST. M. G.rossm an, famed Canadian food and music critic, has graci<Juslv t~ccepted a pe~manent st<tff position with this magazineo. Blah, Blah, Blah. M. GROSSMAI\I Well gang, I'm back. And besides that, Uncle Frankie has come out with an album without his Mothers because he couldn't hack it, being with his Mothers, tltat is. In any case, at his last li-ve show, he more or less implied that he was going to brea1< and do his thing bee au se ... \live audiences don't appreciate my music. It's no good.\ (His I as t performance was in Montreal last AugusL) In any case, this album, like you already didil't know from reading the title, is called Hot Rats. It's great (in my opinion). It's almost all Pennel Esso Service Nott Street Corner ()f Van V.ranken LUIGI'S RESTAURANT SPECIALIZING IN Italian American Foocl 1125 BARRETT ST. Schenectady 01 b-97+4 Enjoy Sirzling Steob and Chops Visit Our Codtoil Bor mstrumental. t's about Magtc uan , recor mg or ts on t e urn ts t ust · e a suggestive music. It's about own label, Straight, carry on camel, which is, I repeat, is a the pictures that come into with the cacophony and camel. Besides having great your head when you listen to social commentary. music, played, along with the rnmic. This album has six (6)- (in other people, primarily by Uncle Frankie has been case you can't read, then Frank himself and Ian goin~ through stages and you'll be able to get Underwood, this cut has a things, first starting with something out of this article) new rhythm which is very almost straight music like, cuts on it, the first nice (with suggesting camels, \Wh_o Are the Brain Police\ being-Peaches en Regalia, it's great) and is, I think, a from.his first album, then on which, to me, suggests a 5/4 rhythm (it's kind ofhard to social commentary (he has march down Main Street by to pick out so1netimes). All a great many pet philosophies the peach people, with the the music he writes (he writes that I happen to agree with king and queen and duke and all his own music) has but that I'm not going to get duchess and the kiddies and something new in each of his into 'cos this is a music the jester and the president'. pieces (good english); in one, thing-but I'll probably all peaches; if you close your there's a kind of jazz electric merttion tl1em anyway 'cos eyes and listen, you can really violin, in another a. new beat, they're an integral part of his picture it-if you want to. in another, something else music, which has been about That is, I think, what he (can't think of anything the most revolutionaty thing wants to see-that is his new off-hand). But it's all great. to come out in the '60's, and type of music-words can tell It's a 11 music. At this it's necessary to understand you exactly what he (Uncle moment, Hot Rats is tl1e best him if you want to Frankie) feels, but with music album on the racks. und~rstand his music). And music, he can suggest things There's nothing else to now he's into music music, to you and you can figure out say-so I'll stop. lettbng other people like exactly what you think. Captain Beefueart and his In my opion, the best cut UNDERWRITER'S LABORATORIES, INC. Will be At Union January 19 for: Electrical Engineers Sign UP At Placement Office I I I

PAGE 6 Tri'ni,fy Brahma: I am Creator Maker of sun Earth. rai11,lifc 1 am Birth V i~hnu: I am Preserver Youth, growth, strength All Lhcse, for I am life. Shira: I am lkslroyer Sadtu·ss. ash. 1lntth Transforuwr of I if<· I am \Ian. KENNETH JONES New Blues Revival Is Recorded History violin bow rubbing too hard across the strings, and he accompanies himself on a quiet, unobtrusive guitar. It is a remarkable album. For a sampling of all the urban blues artists on one album. easily the best compendium available is \The Blues Project\ on Elektra. The album features Van Ronk, Von Schmidt, Muldaur, Koerner, Ray, Glover, Spoelstra, Buchanan and Kalb, and even John Sebastian on a little harp accompaniment. The album also features some fine liner notes by Paul Nelson, then an editor of THE LITTLE SANDY REVIEW. There isn't a weak selection on the album, and most are precisely masterful. Although as Samuel Charters points out in his book The Bluesmen, the blues has its roots. in native African tribal music, blues as it is known today is the only truly American form of music. Although its periods of widespread popularity have been brief and sporadic, students of music have always recognized its seminal role. The current popular \revival'' of folk-styled blues may prove fleeting, but one must rest assured that its degree of general popularity will never alter the unavoidable influence of the blues on cun tempomry music. JANUARY 16, 1970 Parking Problem Haunts: f;rises of Outer Spaces Edator's Note: spaces twice in one day. the policy seems, \ticket the Mr. Patterson, a Student Senator and former Editor of CO NCOHDIENSIS, will contribute editorial opinion to Facsimile from time to time. \Admittedly it is not so pi easant to park several hundred yards from work as ten or twenty feet from it, but we have to do what we can do.\ -President Harold C. Martin in a memorandum to Faculty, Staff and students on \the parking problem.\ (November 18, 1969) In those words, President Martin summed up the need for a new and tighter parking regulations on campus brought about, he said, by the increase in cars on campus, the need for parking for construction workers, and the withdrawal from use of the small parking area near Geology. \ ... We have to do what we can do,\ he daid, and one of the most evident manifestations of \what we can do\ bearing directly on students, was the placing of s i g n s s a y in g \S T A FF PARKING ONLY,\ in the student parking lot behind Fox and Davidson Dorms. The signs marked the ten central parking spaces in the lot as off limits to students' ,;ars and the ban has been strictly enforced by the campus police-ever-ready ticket books in hand-who have been observed to ticket student cars parked in those One need hardly look to student.\ He can be made to larger issues for evidence that pay. CoJilsj.derations of on this campus, despite what convenience or fairness need changes have occurred, the not enter in. student is still \nigger.\ It is It 'would be emminently obvious that the formNlation more just and reasonable on of that parking regulation the part of whomever makes involved the cor:~sidera·tion of these regl!llations ·students student interest and have no part-to require staff, convenience, little and last, if who are paid for their at alL It certainly involved no inconveniet;lce, to share the consultation. burden of the parking That lot which represents problem. If there is the major parking area for justification for any special resident upperclassmen is, regulations for them, typic a I I y, seriously especially in student lots( and overcrowded. It is entirely we think there is not) they peripheral to campus, as are could easily park in the less all student lots. There are no congested freshmen lots by regular central campus West College and Richmond parking areas allotted to where the competition with upperclassmen (aside from student cars is m1:1ch less, or fraternity lots), though, of even inthe lot by the Nott course faculty and staff Street Gate, which always has permits are valid for central empty spaces. Is it not fair campus parking. Further, that they, too, should, like VIOLATIONS WITHIN THE students, have to park the LOT ITSELF are vigorously \several hundred yards\ ticketed by zealous campus instead of \ten or twenty police (do they ·have a feet\ from work? The fact quota?) while on any day one that the restricted spaces are can see faculty and staff cars VERBOTEN all day, every parked illegally on sidewalks day, even late afternoon, and in roadways by the Social evenings and weekends when Sciences building and the no staff is going to park there Alumni Gym OUTSIDE make the regulations an THEIR LOTS, GOING example of bureaucratic UN-PUNISHED. Surely, a idiocy. And campus police conscious double standard have ticketed student cars working to the detriment of parked in those spaces on the student is in effect with weekends. · regard to parking regulat;on Clearly, there is a need for enforcement on this campus. an immediate rectification of Few faculty and staff really this arbitrary, unfair and have to park \several hundred patronizing regulation. yards from work,\ but students do, and then it may be illegal. \When in doubt,\ National Lead wants you! Go with a company that's reallr going places. With a BA/BS, MAIMS or PHD in just about any area of science, engineering or administration, you'll go far with National Lead. PROFESSIONAL TYPING SERVICE. I H \I :..:; c I c 1· t r i 1· t~ pt'\\ ritn. E<ptipp<'d \'ith Creek. and \lath s\ mbol:-. Your choice (; r t y p •• ~ t y t c . E\.pcrit'tH't'd in tlwsi:-: I) pinl!. Pi1·k up nnd d <' I i ' t' r v . C a l I 489-6978 any time. National Lead's 50 divisions encompass over 200 prod- uct lines- everything from paints and plastics to nuclear fuels and space age metals. Annual sales approach a billion dollars. And our 200 plants, labs and offices are located throughout the country and throughout the world. Our il'lteryiewer will be on campus and happy to give you more information on the date below; Or write to our College Relations Manager, National Lead Company, 111.Broadway, New York, N~Y. 10006. ' . (local college imp~int) Natiomil Lead~ ll . · I ~ An equal opportunity employer. I ., <U • JANUARY Salk Start Bi·rth BY DC A war on been ded11 IHstitute. S1 Styles Whi Nationa Leadership NatioHal F Ma11Ci1 of [ The meeti1 Diego. Cal the goals oJ for the nine The maj by Dr. St: Biology. is defects. s( been made sixties, the betng the vaccine for Measles). If Rubella trimester o is a very that the deformed hopes to ri in the Un mid- seven1 Dr. Sty the othe lnstitu te. conquerir sclerosis an a drug rej.ect ion organs. Th employing Social s socialogist~ under its ciplinary\ other field is researd the pro addiction, ( e a r.l y Chemical-I Besides th of these and social taken into Dr. s I abonHor lnstitu te, from oth' these pro with Dr. S Boa Wils Dr. Jr,, cl p 0 lit depart1 named selectior i:he 197 Fellows! The Nationa de sign recipien seniors to atten in the scienc€ mather intentio college 1

f s ' s r f JANUARY 16, 1970 Salk Institute: Start War On Birth Defects BY DOUG WONG A war on Birth Defeds has been declared by the Salk htstitute. So says Dr. Twitty Styles who attended the National Volunteer Leadership Conference of the Natim1al Foundation of the Matdl of Dimes last n10nth. The meeting, held at San Diego, California. projected the goals of the Salk Institute for the nineteen seventies. The major goal: as related by Dr. Styles. Professor of Biology. is to cm1quer birth defe cis. Some progress had been made during the late sixties. the 1nost significant being the development of a vaccine for Rubella (German Measles). If a woman contacts Rubella during the first trimester of pregnancy, there is a very strm~g possibility that the baby will be deformed. The Institute hopes to rid all of the Rubella in the United States by the mid· seventies. Dr. Styles also described the other goals of the Institute. These include the conquering of multiple sclerosis and the perfecting of a drug to prevent the rej.ect ion of transplanted organs. The Institute is also employing people from the Social Sciences such as socialogists and Psychologists. under its new \multi-dis- ciplinary\ approach to the other fields that the lnstitu te is researching. They include the problems of drug addiction, neutral biology (ear_ly learning) and Chemical-Biological Warfare. Besides the scientific aspects of these problems, human and social aspects are being taken into account. Dr. Styles visited the I aboratories of the Salk Institute, heard some ideas from other scientists about these problems and chatted with Dr. Salk. Board Gets Wilson Post Dr. Joseph B. Board, Jr., chairman of the political science department has been named to the Region III selection committee for -the 1970 Woodrow Wilson Fellowship program. The Woodrow Wilson National Foundation will designate, as award recipients, 1,000 college seniors who are planning to attend graduate schools in the humanities. social sciences, sciences and mathematics with the intention of careers in college teaching. A representative from SUNY-Alhany will be in the Placement Office on Friday. January 30. 1970 to interview seniors interested in the MBA program. Anyone interested sho;.tld sigt~ up for an appointment to talk to the representative in the Placement Office in We!Is House. **** Blither·. . . . . SENIORS: You should order your graduat·ion announcements immediately in the Student Activities Office. .(. :t- .{. -!~ There will be an open meeting for all students seriously in terestcd in doing something coHstruct ive in any of the following areas: Vietnam moratorium. the Biafran situation. druft counselil:1g. local comimllli-ly activities. and forthcoming campus issues. The mce ting will be at 4:30 in St ilhnan llall on Tuesday, January 20. **** PAGE 7 Room 251 Davidson is proud to announce the first aanual Samuel T. Helme award for excellence to Mr. Geruld Hym~111 of Roslyn Heights. **** ---------···-- *CEILING AND VISIBILITY UNLIMITED At Pratt & Whitney Aircraft \ceiltng and visibility unlimited'' is not just an expression. For ex:ample, the President of our parent corporation joined P&WA only two years after receiv- ing an en~ineering degree. The preceding President, now Chairman. never worked for any other company. The current President of P&WA starte9 in our engineering department as an experimental engineer afld moved up to his present position. In fact the majority of our senior officers all have one thing in common - degrees in an engineering or scientific field. To insure CAVU*. we select our engineers and scientists carefully. Motivate them well. Give them the equipment and facilities only a leader can provide. Offer them company-paid, graduate education opportunities. Encourage them to push into fields that have nat been explored before. Keep them reaching for a little bit more responsibility than they can manage. Reward them well when they do manage it. Your degree can be a B.S., M.S., or Ph.D. in: MECHANICAL • AERONAUTICAL • ELECTRICAL • CHEMICAL • CIVIL • MARINE • INDUSTRIAL ENGINEERING • PHYSICS • CHEM· ISTRY • METALLURGY • MATERIALS SCIENCE • CERAM· ICS • MATH EMATlCS • STATISTICS • COMPUTER SCI· ENCE • ENGINEERING SCIENCE • ENGINEERING MECHANICS. Consult your college placement offi~er - or write Mr. William L. Stoner, Engineering Department, Pratt & Whitney Aircraft, East Hartford, Connecticut 06108. CAVU\ might also mean full utilization of your technical skills fhrough a wide range of challenging programs which include jet engines for the newest military and commercial aircraft, gas turbines for industrial and marine use, rocket engines for space programs, fuel cells for space vehicles and terrestrial uses, and other advanced systems. Pratt & Whitney f.:lircraft u DIVISION OF UNITED AIRCRAFT CORPORATION ~ EAST HARTFORD AND MIDDLETOWN, CONNECTICUT WEST PALM BEACH, FLORIDA An (qual OppOrlun1t)' Employer

PAGE 8 JANUAHY 16, 1'970 On Juday's Scene Hoopsters Face Two On Road with BILL HOMME RAN The National Collegiate Athletic Association has finally made its long-awaited move in the dispute involving Yale University and its reserve basketball player, Jack Langer. Langer, it will be remembered, was declared ineligible by the Eastern College Athletic Conference last fall for participating in the summer 1969 Maccabiah Games at Tel Aviv. Rules Violation The EC AC ruled that Langer violated NCAA rules and should be declared ineligible for college basketball play this season. This reporter, in a column written earlier in the year, exhorted Yale to defy the NC AA-EC AC ruling and play Langer, commenting that the move was only another cheap manifestation of the NCAA-Amateur Athletic Union Feud. The ~1accabiah Games are sanctioned by the AAU, and it is no secret that the NCAA is out to prevent any of its players from participating in AAU-sponsored events. Thus the barons of amateur sport have evolved a complex series of \.eligibility\ rules to prohibit. or at le~tst restrict, their athletes from participating in off-season events, most of which are conducted by the AAU. Langer violated one of these rules when he went to Tel Aviv. Threats, Silence Last fall was a tense time for both Yale and the Ivy League, as the Elis threatened to play Langer in the season opener against By GREG HAMLIN Union's varisity basketball team travels to Hobart at~d Alfred over the weekend in an attempt to itnprove upon their present 2·7 log. After last Friday's 67-58 wiH over Harpur, the Garnet will be looking for another stellar team effort. Super soph Jim Tedisco, Jumim Dave Shames, Rit Gallucci, and sophomore Rich Goldberg will all be trying to duplicate their pFevious performances against the Colonials. Basketball Sta'ts Player G FG FGA (~ FT ITA ,, (' REBS ASST PTS A VG Tedisco 9 100 230 43'/c 55 84 64•; 27 17 255 ::8.3 Gallucci 9 22 39 56' ( 8 20 40'; 89 3 52 5.8 Pezzano 9 22 37 59'/t> 5 lQ 50'.1 31 3 49 5.4 Shames 9 18 41 44',(, 12 17 7l','r 20 17 48 . 5.3 Eichinger 9 19 39 49'(; 9 9 IOO't; 23 3 47 5,2 Getman 9 21 59 36',; 2 4 so·; 43 8 44 4.9 *DeLuca 8 12 28 43',; 10 15 67'i 21 7 34 4.5 Goldberg 9 15 31 48'·; 4 9 44'; 15 3 34 3.8 Fitzgerald 8 9 25 36'; 8 14 57'; 22 0 26 3.3 UNION 251 581 43'; 122 205 60'·; 378 42 624 69.3 OPPONENTS 255 584 44''; 190 263 72': 432 48 700 77.8 *Injured: out for the season Slow Starts Like the Garnet, both H ohart and Alfred· have hot:ten off to slow early-season starts. Friday's opponent, the Startesmet:~ of Hobart, currently sport a 1-3 rewrd. Top point man for the squad is 6-6, 200 pound ,center f'am1en Genovese, who has blitzed the opposition at 22.2 pace per game. Aloag with 6-2 junior Rich Bond, and 6-0 freshman Mike Dean, Genovese aNd his teammates figure to give the smaller Dutdunen some trouble under the bm:kboards. Face Saxons The Garnet go up against Alfre,d on Saturday afternoon. So far the saxons huve garnered a 1-4 mark, with their lone victoty cu1ning against the Statesmen. Alfred is led by 6-2 junior Ken Fabricant, and 5-9 senior Pete Ryan. Connecticut. Connecticut officials, befuddled at the turn of events. Frosh Cage.rs ·Ho.pef.ul Desp•lte ',0-2 Sta,r, t said that they did not know what they would do if Langer played against them The NCAA, despite an occasional rumbling. remaiNed silent also. By HANK LEVINE As things turned out. Langer played in the season opener and has played in every game since, a development which met with the applause of this reporter. Crushing Blow Three days ago, the NCAA placed Yale on probation for 17 months. and then immediately withdrew their proposal for \further study.\ It was hoped, perhaps, that the NCAA had backed down. This was not to be the case. however, as the ruling body yesterday delivered tlte crushing blow. As reported by United Press International last night. the NCAA placed tlte Elis on two years probation in all sports for violating the ECAC eligibility ruling. Because the NCAA decision does not affect Yale's regular season schedule. the mling means. in effect. that the Elis are banned from all NCAA post-season play. It is now up to the ECAC, which can completely suspend Yale from all regular season play, if it wishes. to take action. The governing council of the NCAA charged that Yale \willfully showed desregard and disdain for eligibility practices.\ The NCAA, however. has committed a graver sin. In their continuing, irresponsible war against their arch rivaL the AAU. they have shown disregard and disdain for amateur athletics. Mats, Swim This \Veekend in a big one for Garnet athletic feams. as all three varsity squads will see action. While the hoopsters are on the road for con tests against Hobart and Alfred, the swim team and the wrestling squad will both be in action at home. On Saturday afternoon Coach B()b McMurray's 1 -0·1 mermen will meet the Cadets of Norwich at 2:30 pm in Foote Memorial Pool. Home Sat. at Hobart Saturday. January 17 - I :30 PM Frosh BasketbalL at Alfred 3:30 PM Varsity BasketbalL at Alfred 2:30 PM Varsity Swimming, Norwich 3:00 PM Varsity Wrestling, RPI. DALE Hampered by a leak of height last season, the Garnet Freshmen basketball team has managed to come up with some fine. tall forwards this winter. Their current record of 0-2 is no measure of their capabilities as both games saw a large Union lead eventually go down the drain. Their first contest ended in a two point loss to Middlebury last term. Two nights later they faced Siena and lost 9 J- 76. Good Front Line Coach Gary Brown points out the fine strength up front with center Jim Bolz (6'5\) and forwards Mike Doyle and Hihn van Benschoten ( 6 '3\ ). Last season the Garnet freshmen had the availability of the numerous talents of star guard Jim Tedisco. This season. Jim continues to shine for the v<Jrsity, but his absence has produced a void that has been hard to fill. Due to a lack of good shooting guards. Coach Brown has been forced to use players that were normally forwards in High School. Dan Kelly (6'2\) Bob Mitchell (5'9\ ), Geoff Walker (6' 3\). and Curtis Rowe (6'1'') keep JEWELERS Coach. Gerry Everling's grapplers; will also be in actiott on Saturday afternoon, colliding with the engineers of RPI, starting at 3:00 in Alumni Gym. The Schedule: Friday, Januaty 16.- 6:15PM Erosh BasketbalL at Hobart 8:15 PM Varsity Basketball, 922 Crane Sch., N.Y. shifting at the guard spot. Pat Murphy (5' 11 \) Barry Kraft (5'9\) and Ron Aines (5'8\) add support off the bench. Organized Chase Early in the season Coach Brown concentrated on defense with the squad. stressing the man-to-man situation. Now, the emphasis has changed. The young hoopsters are working on a man-to-man offense. a new type of strategy which Coach Brown calls \organized chaos ... every man has certain free-lance pat tet·ns ... h is teammates know where he's going. but the opposition doesn't.\ Statesmen Weak The Cagers play Hobart tonight. The Statesmen allow freshman to play on their vmsity squads. according to the recently revised NCAA rules. Their freshmen team should be considerably weaker that the Garnet, considering that three freshmen are playing varsity ball. Coach Brown looks nt the game optimistically. as he docs the rest of the season .. commenting. \We should have at least a winning season.\ The Yearlings' next game at home is against Kings Point on January 24th at 6:15pm .. in the Field House. NEW YORK TO LONDON- SUMMER VACATION TRIPS- ROUND TRIP $169. NOW FILLING · SMALL DEPOSIT AND PAYMENTS· SEND FOR FREE DETAILS. STUDENT GLOBE ROAMERS BOX 6575 HOLLYWOOD, FLORIDA 33021 ·Peter Pause 535 Nott Street VOLUME, 99, Pia Del ln a SJ concert for tl MHseum, Juru Cuban-born e will make he debut at , Memorial i Wednesday, Ja •i The cone works by 1 Debussy, P 1 ) Schumann, w I p.m. Tickets are available a Roberts Pianc Curler MusicS door. The auc to a reception immediate!~ concert. Mrs. Ft appeared in cc of eight, wher a Haydn c orchestra-, in I age of 14, sh public playinl Mozart, Sc Rachmaninoff While st1 Paris Conserv Morley Professo Morley, a Japanese speak on \ or Chry! tonight, Ja1 7:45 in the! Auditorium. Dr. Mor Union pro1 now with t I nsititute University, 1 a forme Professor rv leave of ab past two which he assistant to Ambassador

r s t y s y y e e '• d g e _, VOLUME, 99, NO. 31 Fouuded at Union College 1877 SCHENECTADY, NEW YORK, JANUARY 20, 1970 PRICE TWENTY CENTS Faculty Council Meets On Pass-Fail Proposal requested. The letter grade will be retained in case a change of major necessitated such marking. One year after its initial appearance, a highly modified proposal for a limited system of Pass-Fail courses will go before the Faculty Council at this afternoon's meeting. student anxiety over a proposed retention of grades on magnetic tape deomed the system. 0 ther proposals came forth throughout the spring and fall terms. The present measure is primarily the work of the joint student-faculty Curricular Affaris Committee. Pianist Fromageot Debuts Wednesday In early January, 1969, a draft committee headed by Dean of the Center for Sci e 'lC e and Engineering James D. Palmer formulated a system whereby any upperclassman with an average of 2.0 could take arlY comse outside his major on a Pass· Fail basis. Although the proposal was admittedly radical, substantial faculty opposition coupled with The proposal calls for two Pass-Fail courses a year outside of major, but no more than one per term. All students would be graded by letter, and the registrar would enter pass or fail if so Division 1, which met Thursday, modified the proposal so that professors will directly record pass or fail, and that mark will be permanent regardless of later major. The other three divisions will meet this morning to discuss the proposal. In a special benefit concert for the Schenectady MHseum, Juana Fromageot, Cuban-born concert pianist, will make her local public debut at the College ! Memorial Chapel on I Wednesday, January 21st. •i The concert, featuring works by Bach, Chopin, Debussy, Prokofieff and Schumann, will begin at 8 p.m. Tickets are $3.00, and are available at the Museum, l Roberts Piano Co., The Van •I, Curler Music Store, and at the door. The audience is invited to a reception at the Museum immediately after the concert. Mrs. Fromageot first appeared in concert at the age of eight, when she performed a Haydn concerto, with orchestra-, in Havana. By the age of 14, she had appeared public playing concertos by Mozart, Schumann, and Rachmaninoff. While studying at the Paris Conservatory, she met orley Speaks Professor James W. Morley, a specialist in Japanese politics, will speak on \Japan: Sword or Chrysanthemum\ tonight, January 20, at 7:45 in the Social Sciences Auditorium. Dr. Morley is a former Union professor. He is now with the East Asian I nsititute of Columbia University, of which he is a former Director. Professor Morley took a leave of absence· for the past two years, ''during which he served as assistant to the American Ambassador to Japan. and married a young French student, Henri Fromageot. Later, when her husband was working on his doctorate at Cambridge in England, she appeared as soloist on the BBC. They came to the U.S. in 1966 when Dr. Fromageot received a post-doctoral fellowship at Rockefeller University in New York City. The Fromageots now live in Schenectady, where he is a research scientist with G.E.'s Research and Development Center. Giving concerts has become a rarity for Mrs. Fromageot, who is busy raising three young sons. fraternity Bids Fraternity bids for the second rush must be submitted by 1 :30 p.m. on Wednesday, January 21 in West College. The bids will be matched the same day, and results will be announced in Concordy. Pledge night for the second rush is Thursday, .January 22. School Experiments With Educational TV By MICHELLE VOTTIS \They will perform in all aspects of the class ... just as if they were actually present in the classroom.\ This is not a testimonial of spiritual telepathy, but rather Dean Palmer's description of the on-the-spot student involvement possible for viewers of the recently considered instructional television network. The Idol Places Seventh In State wide Contest The closed-circuit program is intended to enhance the availability of Union and R.P .I. graduate courses. The program would allow employees of the G.A.F. Industries, G.E', the State Department of Transportation, Mechanical Technology Incorporated, and seventeen other industries in the Capital District to view live, day- classes while at the plant location. The students may also, equipped with a two-way speaking system, communicate vocally with their instructor. Graduateand, senior-level engineering and statistic courses will be offered. engineering and statistic courses will be. offered. Originators The campus literary magazine The Idol recently placed seventh in competition for the third annual College Literary Magazine Contest sponsored by the coordinating Council of Literary Magazines in New York. More than I 00 literary magazines competed in the contest, which judged entries ''for their seriousness of content and general excellence of design.\ All magazines edited by undergraduates and consisting of material written mostly by undergraduates were eligible. Siegler's Finale The Idol submitted last year's volume edited by Scott Siegler '69. Tongue, the University of Arizona magazine, received the first place prize of $500, while the publications of Washington University in St. Louis and Chico State College of G:alifornia shared the second place prize of $300. Judges for the contest included A.R. Ammons, Comell University; George Starbuck, Writers Workshop, University of Iowa; and Jeff Steele, editor of 1968's winning magazine from Carleton College in Northfield, Minn. The Coordinating Council of Literary Magazines was founded in 1967 to aid noncommercial literary publications. It has been funded by grants from the National Endowment for the Arts. Wrestling Beats RPI Looks To Springfield By Bl Ll HOLLERAN The Garnet varsity matmen rode the strong-man performances of senior co-captain Naysim Simon and freshman Phil Reed to an impressive 24-13 victol)' over arch-rival RPI on Saturday, much to the delight of a double-capacity crowd at Alumni Gym. The win kept first-year coach Gerry Everling's unbeaten string alive at two victories, along with one tournamen( triumph. The Garnet came on strong in the first two matches to race into an early 6-0 lead. Ronnie Ruhl, at 118, crushed his opponent 8-1; while Bill Munno, at 126, had no trouble with his adversary in scoring an 11-0 shutout decision. The Dutchmen faltered, Continued on Page 4 The originators of the proposal are Mr. Marvin Clark and Dean Burr of R.P.I.'s engirleering school. Intended to enlarge the graduate program in both colleges, this self-supporting innovation would provide a much-in-demand addition to thegra.duate courses now available only in the Evening Division. Because several new graduate cdurses will be in st ailed in the regular program, undergraduate engineering majors with enough prerequisites will also be advantageously provided with new advan:ced,level courses that may mterest them. · Instructional television is currently in operation at the University of Stanford, University of Florida. .I \I 'I l 1 ! 4i ., i

PAG.E 2 Tax at i~o n With ·o u t , .. ~-·' Each term, the Student Tax Commit-tee coliects fifteen dollars from every student. In returp., the campus is provided with numerous student-related activities, including the Co11.cordiensis. Yet when the Social Committee sponsors its concerts, there is no money from Student Tax. The Sudent Tax Committee sponsors concerts by thguaranteeing to rn.ake up any losses incurred. Last year, the three concerts lost six thousand dollars. To date, the six c(;>r.u:.erts. this year have lost abotlt one thousand dollars. ~et the Tax Com,rnittee refuses to sponsor the David F:rye concert, scheduled for February 28. No other student activity on campus is expected to make a profit. Why must the Social Committee? This year has seen, at long last, the demise of the \big college weekend.\ The great variation and quantity of events offered this year is far superior to the \big hash\ of the past. This year has already seen pop, folk, hard rock, and a theatre presentation. The Social Committee has done a fine job in presenting entertainment at moderate cost and maximum variety. The David Frye concert should be held. First of all, it will sell. The Mason Proffitt, who appeared here last term aegis of the Social Action Committee, was warmly received and will help attract a crowd. But even if the •Concert does not sell out, it sh()uld be held. The Social Committee should not be forced to make a profit. Its task is to present varied entertainment. As long as the losses are moderate, tll.ere is no reason why Student Tax should not pay the c<>sts. The Social Committee does indeed provide the campus with a valuable service. Its activities should be subsidized like any other. Henry G. Fein William Ouzer Editors-in-Chief Peter J. Weingold .................. Campus Editor Jeff Rim ....................... Business Manager William J. Holleran .................. Sports Editor Jody Saslow ... , .............. Photography Editor M. Paul Andrews ............... Contributing Editor Richard Patterson .... , ......... Contributing Editor Neil Kramer ... , ..• , .............. Editor Emeritus Staff: Robert A. Levine, Danny Shocket, David Uguccioni, Louis Snitkoff, Tony Faga, Doug Wong, M. Grossman, Mike Gottlieb, John Harrigan, Peter Bickerman, Steve Levy, Michelle Vottis, Lloyd Birns, ' 'Mii:Jrael Swirsky, Neil Green, Doug Tosch, Georg-e Kaplan, Gzarle~ Long, Marg Shugoll, Greg Hamlin, Milce Humber, Dennis Alsofrom, Stu Moss, Broce Garber, Hank Levine. L _______ ·-._d_··_· ----------------~ • J ,. ~EWIST LU,_.CH 711 Albany Street Speciolizing: - HOT DOGS WITH FAMOUS SAUCE - DINNERS AND SANDWICHES - TAKE-OUT ORDERS - Union Students Favorite Spot - (Serving Sehtnedady Since 1921) Mon.-Thurs. 7 A.M.-2 A.M. Fri,-Sot. 7 A.M.-4 A.M. Sun. 9 A.M.·l A..WI. NEW YORK to LONDON· SUMMER VACATION TRIPS ROUND TRIP $169. NOW FILLING · SMALL DEPOSIT AND PAYMENTS- SEND FOR FREE DETAILS. STUDENT GLO,BE ROAMERS BOX 6575 HOLLYWOOD, FLORIDA 33021 UARY 20,1970 · letters to the Editor To the editor: In accordance with President Martin's statement that the college is not a political institution, may I propose that the student senate resolve that no campus flag.be flown. Joel Eckhaus '73 To theed.itor: I would sinceuely like to thank the Social Committee for bringing The Fantastics to campus this past Saturday evening. It was probably the best night of entertainment this campus has had in a lon.g, long time. It is a shame that more students were not there to enjoy it but hopefully they -:'\: ;~ .:~ will centinue to bring such entertainment to campus and more will attend in the future. I remain, Most sincerely, Barry Katzman An open letter to Independent students of Union: We are the Independent Committee, newly appointed by the Student Senate. Our purpose is to handle or channel to other authorities any student gripes or suggestions about independent life. Suggestions concerning the improvement of dorm and social life (i.e. what type of parties, if any, students wish to have) would be a great aid; Please contact us, Jock C0nly at 372-6879, or David Zapata and Paul Fox at 393-2282. Jock Conly '71 David Zapata '70 Paul Fox '71 To the'editor: Due to flooding in west college, the College Electrician has disconnected our feed line to that building. Therefore, no audio will be heard in West College untill he gets around· to finishing his electrical wiring, and reconnects our feed line. We regret this loss of programming, but it is unavoidable on our part. We have been assured of normal operations again within the next two weeks. Dennis Fazio Technical Director, WRUC For your full color 29\ x 45\ GentleJouFney poster, send complete name and address with $1.00 to Beniamino Cribari, P.O. Box 77174 San Francisco, Califor~ia 94107. Soci By PHIL I The we comes frot \educare\ (t~ rear) and \ed out, to brin: these origins to establish dynamic lil education · process of interaction co,gnitive, hehavioral c.o: person, by ' person freely shall we say, previously elements and unique expc pey.sonal a becoming/b universe. Doe.s t assume ideal present in tr today or i st~ttement o nature tries whatever sit itself? I beHe therefore joi in being a distressin~ education t unrecognizl above defin that if we a literary des~ person in .affective, parts, then ~ to accept j \education\ primarily o element- 1/3 the whole ca and tempora of that 1(3 fractien concentrate( factual knm today, it i memorizable knowledge t as education We m therefore th• are excepti• professors, (even here IIi Bill member o Griar Boyf fiddle an~ Coffee : Chapel F 9:00. Adr ,Coffeewil ·capie Freshmen availab hard-boun editions. 1 should ge the Stu Office ' ci Sutter, (377-874: . ··-----

9, st ill f is ' ., ' ARY 20, 1970 . ·. PAGE3 SoCial :,Rili'ef· Committee: By PHIL DISORBOR The word ·~educate\ comes from the latin \educare\ (to bring up, to .rear) and \educere\ {to lead out, to bring forth). From .these origins it is rather easy to establish the classical dynamic liberal view of education - the creative process of growth and interaction among the cognitive, .affective, and hehavioral c.omponents of the person, by which the total person freely develops and is, shall we say, liberated from previously encumbering elements and liberated to a unique experience in the per•son,al and communal becoming/being of the universe. Doe.s this definition assume ideal·conditions ·not present in the United States today or is it simply a st\ltement of what human nature tries to enact in whatever situation it fmds itself? I believe the latter and therefore join human nature in being angered at the distressing shadow of education today - almost unrecognizable from the above definition. It seems that if we accept the above· literary destinction of the person into cognitive, .affective, and behavioral parts, then we sha11 also have to accept the reality that \education\ today focuses primarily on the cognitive element- 1/3 of the person if the whole can be superficially and temporarily divided. And of that 1(3, only a minute fraction has been concentrated on ..: ·namely, factual knowledge. Yes, even today, it is the technical , memorizable, factual type of knowledge that we adhere to as education We must conclude therefore that, although there are exceptions in students professors, and curricul~ (even here at Union:), the Bllther . Bill Hinkley, a member of the new Green Griar Boys. will play guitar, ftddle and banjo at the Coffee House in Old Chapel Friday night at 9:00. Admission is$1.00. ,Coffee will be served. ·copies of the 1973 Freshmen Record are ·still available in both hard-bound and soft-cover editions. Interested parties should get in touch with the ~tudent . Activities Office or with R,andy Sutter, 1 5 1 D~vidson .. (377-8742) . . ... -------_J Individual Community Involvement vast majority of our time and involved as much as he wants Schenectady. effort precludes from inhl!lman situations requiring 3.) Social Worder Other programs can be educational development the the use and development of developed if students desire af.f.ect ive and behavioral his total personality . that is, assistants - particip~Wt can them. However, a warning elements of personality and situations of service to ·other work as much as he CWl with must be given here. There are the all-import\lllt type of people: It is. an open-ended an active social worker two types of people who do knowledge widely •known as e clucationa·l experiment (prov:ided he is acceptable to not seem to fit into the Social insight and wisdom, artistic {certainly limited and not by the social worker). Relief Committee - two ends an d r e 1 i g i 0 u 5 , 0 r any' means the ultimate in 4.) Members can also be of the spectrum. On the one experiential/reflective educational experience) on the Emergency Call list. hand are the issue-oriented, knowledge. Those adept at meant not only to be a This is a list of telephone highly vocal, super-militant either mathematics or human vehicle for individual growth n u m b e r .s w hi c h the activists that we occasionally ex peri en c e s h 0 u 1 d but also to provide necessary Department of Welfare and see around here. They have immediately recognize that ~ervice to people in need in several ministers and priests adopted a political strategy, this constitutes a serious Schenectady. in that area have and which whether they know it or not perversion of education and a In the past two tsrms oor can be called at any time if it w h i c h h as eff.e ct ivel ~ threat to personal growth. functions were limited~ but is thought that college polarized large segments of Thisaxehasbeenground this y·ear, given enough students can provide the population and is before and we hope that both participants, we can provide assistance in some emergency. r e s pons i b 1 e f 0 r t h e students and professors are (we hope) an exciting 5.) There are still several overwhelming reaction from aware of this situation and program for any interested hazy programs in the malting, the right that is evident today are seriously committed to student. The name of the including one at the (cf. Nixon, Agnew, Wallace, changing the \educational\ organization is the Social Schenectady County jail. etc.). establishment. However, for Relief Committee and, as 1 those of us who have only a said above, it is only a vehicle few years here at Union, time for individual involvment; i.e. is the essence and we cannot it arranges programs in whicll and will not wait for the students are placed and, once necessary changes. (By the satisfied, carry on the way, can a person or group program on their own, except change something to for sporadic meetings in something else if they have which we get together to been trained in the ftrst compare experiences. Some something .and know nothing of the programs we are lining abo\~Jt that something else?). up for 1970 are: There is an organization 1.) Troubleshooters for here at Union which has had the six federally-funded inner a practically silent existence city schools here in over the past two terms and Schenectady. Participants will w h o s e g 0 a 1 is the work with the administration c o m p 1 e m en t at i 0 n 0 f in whatever way is needed . institutional factual tutoring, loading recreation education by interaction with programs, individual projects, active and committed people etc. in the world and by service to 2.) · Tu torers-Counselors humanity. Each member has for the Children's Shelter, the opportunity to becOI}1e Humane Society, and Volunteer Aid Bureau in ZELL~IER'S NORGE LAUNDRY AND CLEANING VILLAGE AT 1559 VANVRANKEN AVE. (at HoHie Street) 8 Lbs. DRY CLEANING DRYE.RS $2.00 . s 1.00 WASHERS 1 2 Lb. __ . ____ . _ .. 2 0 Lb. . _ . __ ... _ . _ 3 0 Lb. . .. _ .... _ .. 10 Min. 10 Open Mon.·Fri. 8 A.M. to 9 P.M.· Sat. B A.M. to 5 P.M. . Closed Sundays IF YOU HAVE NEVER HAD h!ORGE DRY CLEANING DONE WE CAN BET YOU WILL BE AMAZ~O College Ski Ticket at HAYSTACK for l\1ini !\Ioney All Area Ticket $3.25 Monday - Friday (Sorry-Not Good Feb. 16-27) Bring Your Student 1.0. Wilmington, Vermont .30 .35 . 50 Ring enlarged to show detail. What you should look for in a diamond Puzzled by the wide variety in diamond pricing? Con- fused by \discount\ promises in mail-order ads and cata- logs? Then you need some- one you can trust to give you factual information about what to look for in a dia- mond. As a member firm of the American Gem Society, we have such a diamond spe- cialist on our staff. He will be happy to properly and ethi- cally advise you on th~ subtl~ differences in diamond qual- ity that affect the price you pay. Come in and see us. @ MEMBER AMERICAN GEM SOCIETY Use Your Master Charge Card GRAUBART & SONS (Schenectady's Famous diamond Shop for three generations) 166 Jay St. Three Union Graduates in Family i i I i l I :I

PAGE 4 . Unbeaten Grapplers Top RPI Continued from Page I however, as Gerardo Brown of the ERgineers outdueled Len Solomon in the 134 bout, 3-1. Rich Burstein, filling in for injured 142 frosh star Penn Sheldon,. was pinned by RPI's Kit Nell. The Engineers picked up two more points when Garnet 1 50-pounder Jeff Knetzer and Ken Baer battled to a o~o draw. At the halfway mark in the contest, RPI led 10-8. Reed, who, along with Sheldon, is one of the brightest Union mat prospects in several years, wasted no time in showing his asversary the lights. The 158-pounder scored a pin at the close of the first period to put the DuD1:1tchmen in front to stay, 13-10. After Bill Simson decisioned RPI's George Sparks, 5-3, the bruising Simon took on Engineer standout John Pandish in the key battle of the afternoon. Simon nearly stood Pandish on his ear, manhandling him throughout the match on his way to an easy 11-2 win. Pandish barely avoided the pin in the last seconds of the bout. Needing a pin to keep Engineer hopes alive, Bob Coleman settled frfor a 5-l decision over Gary Morris at 1 90. Massive heavyweight Pet\e Kenyon sent the enthusiastic crowd home happy as he flattened over-matched Vin Pelase midway through the second period to clinch the Gamet's 24·13. win. The unbelievable crowd, one of the largest in Union's wrestliRg history, vcovered the bleachers, most of the available floor space in the gym, and stood there and four deep around the balcony. The throng was constantly in an uproar, and nearly brought the house down after the pins by Reed and Kenyon. Swim Tops Cadets By BRUCE GARBER In their second win of ,the season, the Union mermen trounced a highly inexperienced Norwich squad 66-33. In winning all but two of the events, the Garnet displayed their most impressive form of the season. In the opening event, sophomore Gary Needelljumped ouout to a five yard lead over his Norwich opponent, setting the pace for future events. Freshmen Lloyd Mayer and Tom Klinkow lasted forty laps to finish second and third respectively in the 1000 yard freestyle. Captain Dave Seward, in a stellar performance handily captured the 50 and 100 ya.vd freestyle events, which placed him as the only double indiv.idual winner of the meet. All four members of the opening relay, sophomore Gary Needell, junior John Horwath, freshman Steve Hill, and junior Burt Yankiver, went on to capture individual laurels in their respective special ties. The remaining firsts were grabbed by Mike Horwath, in the 200 yard freestyle, and Jim Newton, in the 500 yard freestyle. Newton's win followed the disqualification of Yankriver, who, barring the infraction, would have been the victor. Next Saturday, the Garnet will attempt to extend their winning streak to three, when they face a much underrated Hobart team at Foote Memorial Pool. Last winter, at Geneva, the Garnet absorbed a three-point defeat, and are seeking revenge against a team that has alteady fallen to powerful Hamilton and Rochester. Hoop Drops Two; Frosh Split By MARK SHUGOU. The Union CoHc;ge basketball team journeyed to Western New York this past weekend for contest~ with Hobart and Alfred, arid returned late Saturday night sporting two more loses and a 2-9 record. The Garnet five were overwhelmed by the Statesmen of Hobart Friday night, 84-67 and the Alfred Saxons, 85-73, on Saturday afternoon. In the opener, the Dutchmen, possibly feeling the effects of their long bus ride, could not get untracked. They fell behind Hobart 11-0 after five minutes of play, and it was an additional three and a half minutes before the Garnet could manage their first field goal of the evening. However, ten points each by Jim Tedisco and Dave Shames brought the Garnet to within 38-30 at halftime, · and a quick field goal to open the second half cut Hobart's lead to 38-32, but · the· Dutchmen could get no closer. Part of the reason for. Union's poor showing was the ineffectiveness of five foot eight inch sophmore Tedisco. The Schenectady ace was held to five field goals and fifteen points, more than thirteen points below his sea son's average, by the tenacious defense of Statesman Fred Bond. Carmen Genovese led Hobart with 29 points and a team high of ten rebounds, as the Statesmen evened their record at 3-3. Shames popped for 16 points in a losing cause, while Rein Eichinger added eight more for the Dutchmen. Rit Gallucci, Union's tallest starter at 6' 3\ turned in another sparkling game off the boards, pulling in I 6 rebounds, the game's top figure in that department. Cold shooting by the Garnet and a 24-point outburst by Alfred resulted in the 85-73 Union loss on Saturday. The Saxons scored five straight points before the halftime buzzer to take a 38-3 5 lead, and then before Union could score, came out shooting in the second half, adding 19 more to take a commanding 57-35 lead with 12 minutes to play. The struggling Garnet, who do not return to action again until Saturday against Kings Point, were hit with a third loss over the weekend. Bill Boemke, a 6' 6\ center, ha~ left the team, leaving 6' 5\ reserve Dave Vitchok the only member of the squad over six foot three. Boemke, who averaged 11.5 points and rebounds per game last year as a junior has seen limited action this year due to a shoulder seperation. He has appeared in seven of the Garnet's nine games, scoring l 2 points. In fresh basketball action over the weekend, the Garnet opened by demolishing Hobart, 89-50. Mike Doyle led the yearling scorers with 21 points, while Dan Kelly chipped in with 15. The yearling's record sank to 1·3 on Saturday, however, as the Dutchmen fell before the Alfred Saxons, 86-84. Bob Mitchell led a balanced Garnet scoring effort, pouring in 20 points. TEACHERS NEEDED Teaching opportunities for beginning and experienced candidates in private schools coast to coast. Education courses not required. Write. SCHOOL SERVICE BUREAU Post Office Box 278K Windso~. Connecticut 06095 Tel: 203 · 688,6409 JANUARY 20, 1970 Veterans Return To lead lmprovi:ng ·Hockey Team Counting oil a strong returning nucleus from last year's squad and a fine crop of freshmen prospects, the Hockey Club is looking to improve its fortunes this winter. The skaters held their first practice of the New Year on Tuesday night, January 7, at the R.P.I. Field House-- .. home\ ice of the Gamet sextet. It was the second workout ofthe season for the skaters, who hadpracticedprevimtsly on November 15. Nearly 30 players showed up for that first workout, about I 5 of them frosh. Team-co-captain and goalkeeper Dick Brickley cited several good yearling prospects, including defenseman Fred Campbell and goalie Kinzie Weimer. The Dutchmen have lost several key men, notably linemates Hunter Townsend and Jon Storm. Townsend, who left school last spring, and Storm, who joined the Navy, were teamed with right-winger Emerson Martin and formed the Garnet's second most productive trio last season. The Martin-Storm- Townsend line clicked for a total of 15 points, on seven goals alld eight assists. Back•up goalie Rick Ohler, who will be studying in Colombia this term, will also be missing. The skaters, however, boast more strength than weaknesses. If the attack is weakened somewhat this season due to the loss of Townsend and Storm, the defense, led by team co-captain Rick Miller, Tim McEnerney, and Terry Brown, should be rock-hard. The Garnet will also be blessed with Brickley's excellent netminding, with Weimer or Chris Frost eager to see action in reserve. On the attack, the high -scoring first line of Jim Glidden, Chris O'Neil, and Brad Hastings returns intact. Left-winger Glidden led the club in goal-scoring last winter with six lamp-lighters, while centerman O'Neil netted goals and assists to lead the squad in scoring. Seven games ani tentatively scheduled for this winter, including two contests each with the Hamilton N's, the Utica College club team, and the Hoosac School. An additional single game is scheduled with the Lenox School, of Lenox, Massachusetts. At present the club is also trying to book contests with Williams' frosh and Amherst's yearlings. Last season the pucksters skated to a 3-2-1 record in six contests, EN61NEERIN6 6RADUATES EbascoWUI Interview on campus MONDAY, FEBRUARY 2 It's find out time! Time for you to find out the role. you might play in the company that has designed or constructed over B billion dollars of fossil fuel, hydroelectric and nuclear plants. There's never been a more exciting time to join Ebasco. Forecasts call for electrical power systems three times the size of our present national systems. As an engineer at Ebasco. you'll be in the forefront of this activity. Ebasco engineers always have been. See your Placement Director soon to arrange a Q&A session with the Ebasco representative on the above date. If this is not convenient, write to College Relations Coordinator, Department 12·2, Ebasco Services Incorporated, Two Rector Street, New York, New York 10006. An Equal Opportunity Employer. EBASCO VOLUME, 9! tDr. c~ Tells ,Qf HE By M. PAUl A socie .. inevitably heroic ideal c Dr. Cedric Wf. scnolar from Department University, sa] convocation a1 Speaking c Paradox,\ Dr. that although the idea of a always at 01 attitude reve: variety of r society.\ In Whitman fo1 develop men civilization fn the fifth centt Greek The Gree: reflected in · involved \far physical p Whitman sai1 somehow the human indivi1 but still re humanity in consciousness Dr. Whitm faces oppos \absolute \human commitment, urges toward . the necessit) mortal.\ He ~ symbolizes th \Iliad\ when ·Greek army indispensab ranks. He wa in his rejec affairs, but human aile Greeks, Dr.· and he 1 humanity b armor to symbolic act ) The clo between the also was she tragedies of ~ \the indi, heroically in world with confronted,\ said. Sa1 \The indi himself, but for whom relevance; u ' · embodiment which, 01 preserve f Whitman sai f\lnal realizat constitutes self•knowl .. ., \purifies Oe1

0 5 d k 0 ' ! .. Founded at UHioH College 1877 VOLUME, 99, NO. 32 SCHENECTADY, NEW YORK, JANUARY 23, 1970 PRICE TWENTY CENTS tOr. Cedric Whitman ! Tells Convocation Faculty Council Gives Final Approval To Pass-Fail Plan ! Of Heroic Paradox By PETER J. WEINGOLD have to be taken on a letter grade basis. will therefore not know if a student is taking a course pass· fail. l ;\ By M. PAUL ANDREWS A society's values .. inevitably influence the heroic ideal of that society, Dr. Cedric Whitman, classical scnolar from the Classics Department of HaiVard University, said Tuesday in a convocation address here. Speaking on \'The Heroic Paradox,\ Dr. Whitman said that although \the heroic and the idea of a society are not always at one, the heroic attitude reveals itself in a variety of relationships to society.\ In his talk Dr. Whitman focused on the development of Greek civilization from the eighth to the fifth century B.C. Greek Heroes The Greek heroic ideal reflected in Homer's epics · involved \far more than mere physical prowess,\ Dr. Whitman said. \It involves somehow the totality of the human individual, writ large, but still representative of humanity in its individual consciousness.\ Dr. Whitman said the hero faces opposing needs for \absolute status\ and \human context, or commitment,\ with the dual urges toward \divinity and . the necessity of remaining mortal.\ He said that Achilles symbolizes the paradox in the \Iliad\ when he deserts the · Greek army to prove his indispensability to their ranks. He wants to be godlike in his rejection of human affairs, but he still feels human allegiance to the Greeks, Dr. Whitman said; and he manifests his humanity by offering his armor to Patroclus, a symbolic act of self-giving. ) The c1 o se relationship between the hero and society also was shown later in the tragedies of Sophocles, where ••the individual stands heroically in conflict with the world with which he is confronted,\ Dr. Whitman said. Save Self \The individual must save himself, but not as an entity for whom society has no relevance; rather as the u • · embodiment of those values which, oddly enough, preserve society,\ Dr. Whitman said. So Oedipus's !mal realization of his crimes constitutes an \act of self•knowledge;' which ··\purifies Oe~ipus's otherwise immoral acts,\ Dr. Whitman said. Dr. Whitman said that the heroic paradox is similar to \the feeling which everybody has that he is at once the best and the worst, the highest and the lowest, of all human beings.\ He added that the \urge toward divinity, or to be godlike,\ in the paradox \may not seem very practical in the twentieth century, given our ironical mode of standing apart and regarding ourselves as odd varieties of Freudian aberrations. We do not think of ourselves as possible gods.\ But he said that \the Homeric princes apparently did,\ and added: \I don't know of any Greek who ever became a god, but I know of a number who keep trying to even today.\ The Faculty Council voted Tuesday to implement, unamended, the Student Senate pass-fail proposal beginning in the Spring term. The motion passed by a strong 12-2 majority after several proposed amendments were defeated. The new policy means that students will be able to take two courses a year on a pass-fail basis. However, no more than one course a term can be taken pass-fail and no course which is required for the student's major or graduation will be acceptable for pass-fail. Comprehensive education courses, language courses required for graduation, and all courses in a student's major will still Amendments Beaten Three proposed amendments to the curricular innovation were soundly defeated. A proposal by Professor Carl Niemeyer of the English department, representing Division I, that professors be informed of which students in their course are taking the course pass-fail was defeated 8-6. Professors Another Division proposal, that all pass-fail grades be made permanent, was also defeated, with the result that in the event a student changes his major, courses in his new major which he has taken pass-fail will be converted to their original letter grades. A motion by Dean C. Continued on Page 3 Tether Is Secretary Succeeds Gastellani By RICHARD E. PATTERSON, JR. The Student Senate elected a new secretary and heard an appeal from the Social Committee for more student support of ·its concerts, at a meeting Tuesday night. Morley Speaks On Japan Catelogues Her Progress Iv.an Tether was elected the Senate's new secretary to replace John Castellani, who resigned for \academic reasons\. Tether defeated fresh.man Dave Cuyler, 31-8 on a secret ballot. M.ark Coven, reporting to the Senate for the Social Committee said that the committee had lost about $1200 on the six concerts held so far this year. He said the pattern of having four concerts per term was intended to help provide weekend entertainment on campus so that students would not have to leave. It is also an attempt to break out- of the \one big weekend per term\ syndrome, Coven said. By NEILS. KRAMER Rotting cities, air and water poilu tion, upheaval in the universities, internal debate and schism over a proper role in world affairs. This catalogue of miseries is familiar to most Americans, but a Union audience learned last night that exactly the same problems plague Japan. And not only does the United States have common areas of discontent with the nation it defeated in war 25 years ago, the present view in Washington is that Japan is \our foremost foreign ally.\ Dr. James W. Morley, professor of political science with the East ASian Institute of Columbia University, recollected his impressions from a recently completed two year stay in Japan as an assistant to the U.S. ambassador, and indicated the direction in which Japan is heading. Transistors to Ships No longer simply \a transistor building society,\ Japan leads the world in shipbuilding and is second in the production of steel. \They are producing the guts of an industrial economy,\ Dr. Morley said. Heavy industrialization, and the attendent urbanization, have altered the traditional Japanese way of 1 i fe almost beyond recognition. The majority of the Japanese population will soon reside in a megapolitan strip between Tokoyo and Osaka that will be of the magnitude of the area from Boston to Washington, he said. Continued on Page 3 House Candidate Board is Waiting For Stratton By LOUIS SNITKOFF Congressional hopeful, Professor Joseph B. Board, Chairman of the Political Science Department, is currently in a perio.d od \watchful waiting\ concerning his possible candidacy in November. Dr. Board's decision will hinge on the plans of Rep. Samuel S. Stratton who has been unsure of his own future since announcement of the state legislature's plans redistricting Congressional zones. Professor Board, along with two other Schenectady area Democrats is possibly seeking a Congressional post in the 29th District. However, Board has made it clear that he is willing to withdraw if and only if Stratton announces his candidacy for the same post. Reapportionment Stratton represented Schenectady's 29th District until 1964 when reapportionment occurred. Since that time, Stratton has represented a neighboring district in Amsterdam. The most recent redistricting which was passed by the legislature yesterday, however, has relocated him to Continued on Page 3 Trouble for Spring? Citing the fact that five of the six concerts held this year have lost money, Coven said that the tax committee was becoming increasingly reluctant to absorb the losses from these concerts. If the two remaining concerts this term, B.B. King and David Fry~, are not more successful, Coven said, the spring term entertainment schedule may have to be curtailed. Senate President Don Kessler complained to senators that few of them have come to him and the oth.er senate officers with ideas for programs to bring before the senate. Kessler said he felt this situation made it very difficult for the senate to adequately serve the interests and desires of fue student body. He urged se11.ators to seek out ideas from students in their living units. I I I I r

PAGE 2 Say It Again College Press Service from home to do what · -\We're on a course that is going to end this war.\ -Pres. Richard Nixon, Septe. 26, 1969. -\We've certainly turned the corner (in Vietnam).\ -Sec. of Defense Melvin Laird, July 15,1969. -\ ... We have never been in a better relative position.\ -Gen. William Westmorland, April 10, 1968. -\ ... We are enlightened with our progress ... we are generally pleased ... we are very sure we are on the right track.\ -President Lyndon Johnson, July 13, 1967. -\We have succeeded in attaining our objectives ... \ -General Westmoreland, July 13, 1967. -\We have stopped losing the 1var.\ - Sec. of Defense Robert McNamara, October, 1965. -\We are not about to send American boys nine or ten tlwusand miles, THE PEANUT STORE featurir1g PLANTERS HOT ROASTED PEANUTS and Nutmeats from all ov~r the world. 406 STAn ST. Asi<m boys ought to be doing for themselves,\ -Pres. Johnson, October 21, 1964. -''The United States still hopes to withdraw its troops from South Vietnam by the end of 1965.\ -Sec. of Defense McNamara, Feb. 19, 1964. -\Victory ... is just months away ... l can safely say the end of the war is in sight.\ -General Paul D Harkins, Commander of Military Assistance Command in Vietnam, October 3 1, 1963. -\(The War) is turning an important corner.\-Sec. of State Rusk, March 8, 1963. -''The Communists now realize they can never conquer free Vietnam.\ -Gen. J.W. O'Daniel, military aide to Vietnam, January 8, 1961. -\1 fully expect (only) six more months of hard fighting.\ -General Navarre, French commander in chief, Jan. 2, 1954. DIAMANTE'S Enjoy Our Fine Home Cooked Italian Food in Our Comfortable Dining Room Opp. The Brownell Gate on Nott Stre.t Open Daily 10 to 1 A.M. Sundays 5 P.M. to 1 A.M. I NEW YO\ K 10 lONDON . SUf.\ ;E H VACA fiON TRIPS fWtJfJ[) l !iiP Slli~l f·JCW: Fll LING SMALL DEPOSIT /\iJ[) PAYUI::rHS SEND FOR FHEE DETAILS STUDENT GLOBE ROAMERS BOX 6575 HOLLYWOOD, FLOH IDA 33021 DOUGLAS BOSTONIAN* BATES* WALL-STREETER HUSH PUPPIES* WALK-OVER \SEBAGO-MDCS MANSFIELD* SNOW & AFTER SKI BOOTS Phone FR 4-8577 319 State Street Schenectady, N.Y. S10FFPURCHASEOFSHOESUPON PRESENTATION OF I.D. CARD NO, weEJre 11ot the MOST GLAMOROUS JEWELER in town, but our selection of DIAMONDS, WATCHES, & JEWEL A Y wl'll match any. DALE JEWELERS 163 JAY STREEi SPECIAL STUDENT DISCOUNTS! OPENtil9:00 TUES. & THURS. 372·0540 ' To the Class of 1970: JANUARY 23, 1970 J Editors: Members of this year's graduating class mu.st decide within the next three weeks a number of issues concerning Class Day activities and the class gift. Class Day has traditionally been the final activity involving the class as a whole prior to graduation. The Day usually includes either a picnic in Jackson's Gardens or a cocktail party in Hale House. As the final get-together, it needs full participation to be truly effective. A decision will be made during a class meeting to be called in the near future as to which activities will be undertaken. If any members of the class have other viable suggestions for Class Day activities, those suggestions may be submitted to Mrs. Marra in Student Activities or to the Class of 1970. : Le·tters . Suggestions recei~ed . so -far concerning the g1ft mclude either the donation of books to the library or the establishment of a perpetual monetary prize given each year in honor of the late John Kelleher of the Class of 1970. Any other suggestions or ideas are requested. Fifty-eight percent of the Freshman class did not vote in the class elections. In the '73 Freshmen Record, Dean Malloy states that students have an important role in decision-making here at the college. What is the matter? Was this etection a farce? i Facl ).Q:~ .·1 Psychology ,l have the regi ! of A, B, and The Class Gift is another traditional gesture by the Class t the College. . . p •• , These issues and any others of interest to the Senior Class will be discussed at the forthcoming meeting. Any suggestions prior to that meeting would be greatly appreciated. The officers of the Class of 1970. Maybe in the tu ture, more . time will be dedicated towards acquainting the freshmen with the candidates and their respective opinions ' on the issues involved. We ought not be swayed by a plethora of meaningless signs and posters. Next time, let there be more of a campaign so that more voting participation will result. Sincerely yours, George S. Bain '73 Michael A. Conti '73 Mark E. Johnson '73 For your full color 29\ x 45\ Gentle journey poster, send complete name and address with $1.00 to Beniarnino Cribari, P.o: Box 77174 San Francisco, California 94107. D, and F • defeated whe Palmer of r out that ll grade of \ essentially c1 grades. • The final support for system was • the early di measure professors ., objections tc Q Don Kes! the Stude1 sponsor of 1 admitted to discuss the research at c a student apparently professors tc the change. The C Most strc the proposa. Niemeyer Foster of Ph .. whom felt a it, that incorporate( • deception ' state of mi .good for < referred to under the 1 adopted pr, know whic \' taking their However Mr. Kessler, the purpose not decepti1 but rather whether a system as the Cun Commit \.1 worthwhile~ were cut then the • pass-fail determined, Prof. Ra: of the Bic pointed ou Dartmouth .., required co pass-fail ten and that tl would t required pass-fail eli~ In oth PI Sj Sche FOI One bl

PAGE3 JANUARY ;23, 1970 , Faculty_ Council the I 0 K ' P F. ·z 1 _. . • • s ass- . at the ~~ William Huntley of the F acuity Council approved Morley··· There has been a \sudden been \no normal student life accentuation of a problem we in that country for the past also face: making urban two years,\ he said. Congressman Stratton's decision tests on the possibility that he will declare his candidacy for the U.S. Senate seat currently held by Charles Goodell. However, informed sources say that Stratton does not have sufficient funds available for aSenatorial campaign. civHization viable,\ Dr. I n in t ern at ion a l Morley said. commerce, Japan looms \as ter? '· Psychology department to new courses in Mechanical l.·· , . have the registrar turn grades Engineering and Psychology . a ted the We a let ing '73 '73 ·~ r. . . p In the meantime, Dr. of A, B, and C into pass and and voted to refer to the D, and F into fail was divisions the question of a Riot Scale our greatest ()Verseas trading The sca,le of student riots partner and tha_t relationship Board has elected to take a wait-and-see stand on the issue concerning Stratton's decision. With the reapportionment (which is only valid until 1970 Census is taken) now passed, announcements can soon be ex.pected from Stratton, and subsequently, from Professor Board. • defeated when .Jan James D. calendar change. The Division I proposal for a fall term at Japanese universities is far can only con tillue to grow,\ beyond that of similar Dr. Morley sa1d. American disruptions, such as at Berkeley or Columbia, Dr. Morley said. \When I left Japan last summer, 16 universities were wholly or partly closed.\ There has • Palmer of f Ler 11 pointed out that 1l would make a grade of \D\ useless and essentially create two failing grades. The final strong Council support for the new grading system was not indicated in • the early discussions of the measure when many professors voiced serious ., objections to the proposal. Don Kessler, President of the Student Senate and sponsor of the proposal was admitted to the meeting to discuss the results of Senate research at other schools and a student poll here, and apparently swayed several professors to the side favoring the change. (I The Opposition Most strongly opposed to the proposal were Professors Niemeyer of English and Foster of Philosophy, both of \' whom felt as Prof. Foster put it, that \the measure incorporated a degree of ' deception which creates a state of mind which is not good for education.\ This referred to the fact that under the motion as finally adopted professms will not know which students are Q taking their course pass-fail. However Dean Palmer, and Mr. Kessler, pointed out that the purpose of the measure is not deception of the faculty but rather a chance to see whether a broad pass-fail system as recommended by the Curricular Affairs Committee can be worthwhile. If the measure were cut down or limited then the true effect of \ pass-fail could not be determined, they felt. Prof. Raymond Rappaport of the Biology department pointed out that research at Dartmouth had shown that ., required courses taken under pass-fail tended to be abused, and that the Union measure wou I d therefore omit required courses from pass-fail eligibility. In other business the from early September to before Thanksgiving and a long Christmas vacation was not voted on because of a lack of discussion in the other divisions . •• I and a good part of the universe as well. It's only one of the imaginative ways you can use your talent at Norden. Because here, we see things a bit differently. Technologically. Crea- tively. And in business. One example is the Contact Analog system you see above. Displaying al- titude, air speed, attitude, velocity vector, and other flight information into easily-assimilated pictorial form. With virtually limitless applications tor air/spacecraft, on land, or under sea. Board ..•• his original district. Several Congressmen have already announced their plans to challenge the redistricting in the courts. Package the world in 1 /2 cubic foot.·~ Interesting? We think so. But :wl'lat it says about Norden may interest you more. Technologically, Contact Analog rep- resents a sophisticated uti lizati()n of analog and digital techniques, illus- trating the kind of interdisciplinary activity that's made our team JHOb- lem-solving approach so successful. Creatively, it demonstrates the fact that new ideas-even radical ones- get past the 'idea' stage at No•rden. And from a business standpoint, in- dicates the fact that Norden's suc- cess is based upon innovation. Innovation in areas like pilot dis- plays, airborne radar systems, ground support equipment, optical devices and computer tectmclogy. If you're interested in looking beyond technical horizons, why not look into Norden, located in Fairfield County, Connecticut, just 41 miles from the heart of New York City ... we offer a corporate-financed Graduate Educa- tion Program ... and we have open- ings in Research, Development and Manufacturing. 1970 graduate EE;s and ME's are invited to contact their Placement Directors to arrange an on-campus interview. Or forward resumes to: Mr. J. E. Fitzgerald, Helen St., Norwalk, Conn. 06852. An Equal Opportunity Employer (m/f). N d United or eM QIVlSIONOF • : Aarcraft .,.. . I ,

PAGE 4 There will be a Preserve Your Environment (PYE) meeting on Monday, January 26. 1970 at 4:30 in SS 110. Anyone interested in. active investigation of both scientific and legal aspects of pollution in preperat ion for action sl1ould attend. ALL GRANTS-IN-AID READ IMPORTANT NOTICE! A temporary but necessary conversion in the processing of Grant-in-Aid checks for the next pay period necessitates your turning in your time sheets by Friday, January 30, 1970. You will be paid for the work period up to and including January 30, JlJ70 011 February 13. 1970. Checks for the work period from February 2. 1970 to March 6. 1970 will be ready on March I J. 1970. Proffessor Roth of the Biology Department and Professor Wells of the History Dept. will speak informally on \Population and Birth Control\ at Phi Sigma Kappa on Sunday at 3 P.M. The College Community is cordially invited. CoL J.W. Brokaw. State Director of the Selective Service, will be in Memorial Chapel un Monday. January 26 at 7:JO P.M. He will discuss the new Selective Service procedures und their effect on college students. A question period will follow. Pennel Esso Service Nott Street Corner Of Va11 Vranken Phone 372-0528 PARK- PIZZERIA Italian Grinders OLJr Spec 1alty Bo~ind Davidson Hall- One Block from the Campus 25 Pork P la~e Sch e1>ec to dy, N.Y. Professional Typing Servi(e IBM Sel~ctric. Greek and Math symbols. Choice of type style. Experienced in typing Doctoral theses. Reasonable rates. Dependable. Cal1489-6978 any time. JANUAR'tt' 23, 1970 Come as you are! JANUARY 26, 1970 Now's the t1me to.. sign up Rl your placernent offtce for an interview with the Bethlehem Steel Loop Course recru1ter Th1s could be the start of somethmg b1g! And 1ust what IS the Bethlehem Stee I Loop Course? Glad you asked! It's our management development program for graduates with bachelors· or advanced degrees. Bethlehem loopers ( 150 to 200 every year) spend four swingtng weeks at our home offices in Bethlehem. Pa Then. primed with information about the entire.corporation and rarin' to go, they re- port to the appropriate plants or department~ for thetr f1rst ass1gnments. Then. onward a~d .upwar?! Where would YOU 1ft into the Loop Course? Check your degree or the one most similar to 1t: MECHANICAL ENGINEERING-Engtneering or me- chamcal ma1ntenance departments of steel plants. fab:ri- catmg works. mmmg operai!Ons. and shipyards fil:llel and combustton departments Supervision of producl10n operattons Martne engmeenng ass1gnments 111 Ship- buildtn9 Department Also· Sales or Resemch METALLURGICAl. !;NGINEERING-Metallurq1cal de- partments ot steel plants and manufactunnq operat1 ons. Engtneenng and serv1ce divisions Techn1cal and super- vtsory pos1t10ns 'n steelmaking departments and r~llr!l'lg mills Also. Research or Sales CHEMICAL ENGINEERS- Techmcal and supervtsory post\lons m coke works. ;ncludtng production of by- product chem1cals Fuel and combust1on departmeen ts. 1ncludmq responstbilily for operatron and mainteoan ce of arr and wate1 pollut1on control equ1pment Engi'leer- 'nq and metallurgical dep:1rtments Steelmak1nq opera- lions. Also: Research or Sales INDUSTRIAL ENGINEERING- Posrttons tn steel plants, labncntmg works shipyards. and m1nes Engineering :1nrl mamtenance departments Supervtsion of stP. el- makrng. rolling m;:mufacturrng and fabricating opell'il- !Jons Also. Sales CIVIL ENGINEERING- F ahrrc<Jtrd Sterl Constru ctron JSSICJnments n en~1'neerrnc ftplcl prect1on. or W01\ks management Steel Dlilnt m1ne CH shtpyard assgn· ments rn ena1neenna construct1on and ~aintenaneee Surervtston of produCtion opcr3tions Sales 8epar.t meent ass1gnments as ltne sales·'lan or sales enorneer (tech- nrcal serv1ce to arch1tects and eng.ineers) ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING-Steel plant, fabricating works, mining oper.attons. and shipyard electrical 'en- gineering, construction. and mamtenance departments. Technical and supervtsory positions in large production operations involving sophisticated electrical and elec- tronic eqUipment. Also· Research or Sales. MINING ENGINEERING-Our Mming Department op- erates coal and 1ron ore minmg operations and lime~ stone quarries. many of which are among the most modern and effrctent in the industry. This 10.000- man activity offers unlimited opportunities to mining en- gineers. Also· Research. NAVAL ARCHITECTS AND MARINE ENGINEEIMS- Graduates are urged to inquire about opportunities in our Shipbuilding Department. including the Ce.ntral Technrcal Divts1on. our design and engineering organi- zation Also: Traffic. OTHER TECHNICAL DEGREES-Every year we recruit loopers w1th techntcal degrees other than those I isted above Sentors enrolled in such curricula are enc0ur- aqed to stqn up for an interview. ACCOUNTANTS-Graduates in accounttng or business admtntstratton (24 h?urs of accounting are prefe ned) are recrUited for trammg for supervisory assignments m our 3.000-man Accounting Department. OTHER NON-TECHNICAL DEGREES-Graduates Mth degrees in ltberal arts. bus mess. and the humanities are mvited to dtscuss opportunities in the Sales Department. Some non-techmcal graduates may be chosen to .fill openmgs in steel plant operations and other departments. WHEN YOU SIGN UP be sure to ptck up a· copy of our bool~let. \Careers with Bethlehem Steel and the Loop Course ... It tells it like it is. BETHLEHEM STEEL An Equal Opportunity Employer 0 •• PAGE5 'Hi~ La By LANG:E i MOrt Sal women arE their own gi the meant' men, he rep not tl1at 1: don't want 1 .. I The tw' downtown, and \The P also insecur gifts, and a1 to strike a \The Riev film of the Faulkner through tt Disney. Ev and innoc1 and depth 1 i ugly heads. t 1 The fi ~~ McQueen., · ~r '\ and salary · , of the stc ··. i when the '-.\ ; 1 should cen· :·I an eleven : j r:· l' IJ I 0 ~------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ ~ At

r p J J , I {} I 0 'Rievers' and 'Arrangement' av\ff!!:J!l:!?Wer and Inspiration MOrt :Sabl once said that women are insecure with their own. gifts. When asked if the meant women wat to be men, he replied, \No they're not tl1at brave. They just don't want to be women.\ The two films playing downtown, \The Rievers\ and \The Arrangement,\ are also insecure with their own gifts, and aren't brave enough to strike any new ground. \The Rievers,\ the better film of the two, is a William Faulkner story as seea through the eyes of WaJt Disney. Everything is cleaa and innccent, with reality and depth never rearing their ugly heads. The film stars Steve McQueetl., whose personality and salary changes the focus of the story to McQueen, when the movie actually should center around Lucias, an eleven year old boy who grows up in a weekend. McQueen's performaace is that of a personality who is famous enough to walk through any part. The rest of the cast acts like someone told. them that the characters are colorful. The actors are graduates of the school of hearctwarming acting. The direction of Mark Rydell, whose wc>rk you saw in \The Fox\ can ·Only be described as unilupired. Not good, not bad. \The Arrangement\ kept reminding me of a forty year old man dressed like a freak. No matter how hard he tries, the man cannot seen1 natural wearing the clothes of another generatiorr. Elia Kazan, the director, is a very talented artist of the fifties who tries to em ploy the current move techrriques. No matter how hard l1e tries, Kazan cannot master them. Make it bOth 0 I • I I ways. YOU CAN MAKE GOOD AND DO GOOD I~ AN JETNA CAREER The ploy involves the breakdown of an advertising man. Floored by an attack of conscience, the poor man goes berserk. The film details the breakdown. Kirk Douglas plays the advertising man. Douglas is. intense without being believable. Faye Dunaway as his mistress is the only persotl in the film who is comfortable with the four-letter words in the dialogue. Deborah Kerris is not allowed to be elegant, S() she acts like an elocutioll teacher who must say, \Goddamnit ... Eddie ... Godd- amnit.\ If Union gets too oppressive this weekend. and the only way out is a movie, see \The Rievers\ at the State. Make other \arrangements\ if at all possible. Insurance is a service business. It serves people. What- ever your major, you can satisfy your pocketbook and your conscience in one of these basic career areas: e ADMINISTRATIVE e ANALYTICAL e SALES MANAGEMENT If you'd like to hear more about doing your thing at JEtna, here's what to do: • Ask for a copy of ''Your Own Thing\ at your Placement office. • Make an appointment to see our representative. He'll be on campus on: FEBRUARY 2,. 1970 OUR CONCERN IS PEOPLE - LIFE&CASUALTY An Equal Oppottunity Employer and i\. Plans l'm Progress Company JANUARY 2 1970 Schaefer beer brings you. the most reliable, un- biased ski reports in the East-\Ski Reports by Roxy,\ with Roxy Rothafel, \the voice of skiing.\ Save this schedule of. times and stations, and let Roxy keep you up-to-date on all the latest ski conditions-whether you\re at home or on the way to the slopes. r••••••••••••··~ I ''SKI REPORTS I : BYROXY\ ; ~RADIO SCHEDULE I I CITY, STATE STATION DAYS TIMES . I I Philadelphia WPEN Wednesday 6:45PM I Pa. 950 ke Thurs., Fri. 7:20AM, 6:45PM, 9:45PM I Saturday 7:20AM, 6:45PM I Sunday 7:20AM I New York WNEW Mon. thru Sat. 7:45AM, 6:45PM, 9:45PM I N.Y. 1130 ke I WNEW (FM) Mon. thru Sat. 8:45AM, 7:45PM, !0:45PM I 102.7 me I Hartford WDRC Wed. th ru Fri. 7:25AM, 11 :55AM, I Conn. 1360 ke 5:55PM, 7:55PM I Providence WPRO Wednesday 8:15AM, 12:15PM, I I R.I. 630 kc 6:45PM, 10:15PM I Thurs., Fri. 8:15AM, 12: 15PM, 6:45PM. I 8:15PM, 10:15PM Saturday 8:15AM, !0:15AM, I ---------- 12:15PM, 2:15PM I Boston WBZ Mon., Tues. 6:50AM, 7:30PM I I Mass. 1030 ke Wednesday 12:30PM, 7:30PM I Thursday 12:30PM, 6:30PM, 7:30PM. Friday 6:50AM, 7:30PM, 9:30PM I Saturday 6:50AM, 7:25AM, 8:25AM 1 12:30PM, 7:30PM I Worcester Mass. I Springfield I Mass. Portsmouth I N.H. Manchester I N.H. I Claremont N.H. I Hanover N.H. WSRS(FM) 96.1 me WSPR 1270 kc WHEB 750 kc WGIR 610 kc WTSV 1230 kc WTSL 1400 kc Schenectady WGY N.Y. 810 ke Syracuse WFBL N.Y. 1390 kc Mon. thru Sat. 8:00AM, 7:00PM I Mon. thru Sat. 7:35AM, 12:1 OPM 6:10PM.ll:10PM Mon. thru Sat. 8:35AM, 5:35PM Mon. thru Sat. 8:35AM, 5:35PM I I I ------1 Mon. thru Sat. 7:55AM. 6:20PM I Mon. thru Sat. 7:55AM, 6:20PM I Mon. thru Sat. 6:55AM, 6:30PM, I 0:15PM I Mon.thru 1 Thurs. 7:30AM Mon. thru Fri. 7:30AM, 8:30PM 1 Saturday 9:30AM, !0:30AM I I I I I I I I ~~~--~~--~- Portland WGAN Wed., Thurs. 8:45AM, 5:45PM 1 I Me. 560 kc Fri., Sat. 8:45AM, 5:45PM, 7:30PM. ll·ll:l5PM I I I I I L Schaefer Breweries, New York and Albany, N.Y., Baltimore, Md. • ................ i I, l '

PAGE6 JANUARY 23, 1970 Springfield Overwhelms Matmen, 22-13 H oopsters Look To Tedisco For Upset of Kings Point By MARK SHUGOLL averaging 26.5 points a game, but was held below that average twice last weekend by Hobart and Alfred. By HENRY FEIN Despite stellar performaces by Bill Munno, Garry Morris, and freshman Penn Sheldon, the Garnet grapplers were overwhelmed by a superior Springfield College squad Wednesday night, as the Indians coasted to a 22-13 decision in th~ Alumni Gvm. The Indians came into the contest with a 5-l record, having beaten Cortland. Cornell, Connecticut, MIT, and RPI. The sole loss came at Penn State. Munno, who wrestled at 118, faced New England champ Bob Meyer. After falling behind 6-3 in tl1e third period, counting Meyer's two minutes of riding time, Bill scored an escape and a reverse to knot the contest. Ron Ruhl (126) was overwhelmed by a quick Ray Ferrari, 12-2, and Len ' ' . .. Jracksters Open . . ' One of the strongest indoor-track and field teams ever assembled at Union opens its season this Saturday when it travels to Ithaca to compete in the Cornell Invitational. The primarily sophomore-freshmen squad is led by All-American Rich Jaszczak. The soph flash can run in any event from the 50-yard dash to the I 000-yard run, but will p~obably see most action in the 600 and as anchor man for the mile relay. Steve Wood, another soph speedster, will be offering a challenge to Jaszczak in the 600 and will also compete in the mile relay. ~ike Rich, Gray Watkins, and Ed Rossi figure to be standouts. in the field events. Second-year man Rich as already broken Union's current high jump by more than 2\ in practice. Freshman Watkins, N.Y. State champ in the pole vault, bettered the Union vault mark by more than 2' as a high school senior. Yearling Rossi long-jumped 22' last year, less than 4\ short of the present standard. Rossi is also the number one hurdler on the team. The Garnet also boast a cadre of experienced distance runners. Paul Fotves and Bryant Moeckel, leading men on last fall's 5-2 cross-country team, should lead the pack in the two-mile. Freshman Mark Slavin, another fall runner, and Terry McManus, figure to add depth to this event. Joe Burgess, yet another star from the cross-country team, should be the leading mile candidate. Freshman Rick Jones, and sophomore Larry Thornton will be fighting for the second mile spot. Senior Pete Erickson, junior Art Riccio, so ph Bruce Cobb, and freshman Don McGough are the leading sprinters. Erickson, Cobb, and McGough can also participate in the mile relay. The IOOO-yard run will feature freshmen Tim McCabe, Vince Foster, Mark Burdelle, Greg Hamlin, and junior John Braham. These Middle-distance runners will also see some action in the two-mile relay event. Freshman Bill Volz and soph Dick Thickens will handle the shop-putting chores. Coach Ronald Coleman feels that the season will be a success if the Dutchmen make a strong showing at the Union Invitational on March 14 and the N.Y. State Championships on March 2L Both will be held in the Field House. .;,\:J'<- UNtr- 0 J' .uo~ t-e. ForeJ..gn. Study >: ~ \' .. Programs of Q oc:.-\\DEo~o:~'<h' Syracuse University FALL SEMESTER•197C FRANCE ITALY NETHERLANDS' COLOMBlA SUMMER SESSIONS-1970 School of Music-Switzerland School of Art-Florence School of Ed11cation-London College of law-Amsterdam* Department of Photography -Munich Italian Language & Literature -Florence\'* . •Graduate Credit Onlf Wr1te for brochure: *'Undergraduate credit only Foreign Study Programs of Syracuse University 335 Comstock Avenue, Syracuse, New York 13210 Solomon (134) gamely staved off a pin as he dropped a 10-2 decision to Bob Baker. Sheldon, wrestling his first home match and corning off a knee injury, was taken down in the first period by Len Grecco, but that was as far as the Indian got, as the frosh star scored a 15-3 decision. Jeff Knetzer was defeated by 1 50 wrestler Steve Gaydosk, 14-2. Freshman Phil Reed suffered his first loss, as he was topped by Steve Sutherland in a 158 match, 12-4. Naysim Simon faced Indian captain Art Zeigler at 16 7. Zeigler finished ftfth in the NCAA tourney last season, and he was simply too good for the formerly undefeated Simon, who fell 10-3. Garry Morris easily took his 177 decision against Steve Maier, as he won 6-0. Andy Blumenthal suffered the only pin of the evening as Springfield's Bob Barges put him to the mat at 4~30. Pete Kenyon won by forfeit for the Garnet. The grapplers swing back into action tomorrow, as they take on lightly-rated Hobart here at 3:00. The Gamet basketball team will attempt to improve on its lowly 2-9 record this Saturday, as it hosts the Mariners of Kings Point at Memorial Fieldhouse. The Mariners record to date reads 7-7, but includes an impressive season opening victory over Brown, and a win over a strong Marist team in its most recent outing. Tall Foes The visitors wi~l pit a starting front-court averaging nearly 6' 5\ in height against Union's extremely small front line. Kings Point is led by 6'6\ center John Miller and 6'5\ foward Paul Lukas. Miller boasts a 17.6 scoring average, while Lukas, from Massapequa, Long Isl_and, has been scoring at a 15 point per game clip. 6'3\ Bill Doyle rounds out the Mariners starting fran tcourt. The Gamet's tallest starter is 6'3\ Rit Gallucci. Only Dave Vitchok, a reserve, is taller at 6'5\. Union's hopes for an upset lie on the shooting of 5' 8\ Jim Tedisco. Tedisco is The Gamet have not beaten Kings Point in five yeats, including last year's 95-61 loss at Kings Point. Game time is eight o'clock. The school's freshmen teams are to do battle at 6:15. The yearlings are 1-3. Hoop, Matmen Highlight Sked Another big weekend is in store for Garnet sports fans, as all winter sports teams see action. Home varsity basketball, wrestling and swimming contests, all on Saturday, highlight the slate. The schedule: 2:30 PM Swimming (F) vs. Hobart (Home) 2:30 PM Swimming vs. Hobart (Home) 3:00 PM Wrestling vs. Hobart (Home) 4:00 PM Indoor Track-Cornell Invitational 6:15 PM Basketball {F) vs. Kings Point {Home) 11 :00 PM Hockey Club Practice--at R.P.I. ,--------------------------------------, I I I I ! When we brew our beer, i I I : we brew the bubbles, too ! Genesee Beer is one of the few beers in the country that comes by its sparkle naturally. The carbonation that gives Genesee its cool, clean taste is brewed right in by an age-old process called \kraeusening\ (kroy-zen-ing). It's a slow, patient process of natural carbonation that keeps the sparkle in the beer, makes the head last longer, makes the beer taste better. Kraeusening is just one more reason why Genesee is a little more exciting than any other beer. Try one today. We do everything to bring you better beer GBCO, floc:hester, N;'{, I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I ·--·------·---······----------------~-~-~ VOLUME, Cht 'Rec~ For~ The C I . Department h< awarded two «( nearly $17,001 An $11,6~ the Natio J .. .: Foundation r toward an i r esearoh aJ ( program, und1 ' of Chemistry · John G. Lar · participa ';~.,. independe I conjunction \\ / . the Chemist1 ·.J Admission is undergrad participants \\ a week. ' 1 \ ,t A grant of ) Adn I, I Fou By KEVIl With a we applications · Union's first received, I Office notes increase in t Seco., In the rush, whi Wednesday, freshmen w; fraternities. the largest n six, and D' matched wit ihe fit additional freshmen cl pledge, sup (36%} who first rush. P largest hou additional their total · year. Beta large house new mem~ fourteen . Phi Gam matches, tl group, and four each. President commentin! said that \I our expect added tha: could antici the near f' shortness a just comple

's y s. s. r b FotuJded at UnioH Colleye 1877 VOLUME, 99 NO. 33 SCHENECTADY, NEW YORK, JANUARY 27,1970 PRICE TWENTY CENTS Chem Department 'Receives NSF Grant For Student Program New York Draft Director: Cannot Predict Future Call By MICHELE VOTTIS call by about 59%.\ the age of 19 and 26 are eligible this year, next year it will be only 19 and 20 year olds. \However if we run short, we will return to The Chemistry Department has recently been awarded two grants totaling nearly $17,000. An $11,670 grant from the National Science J-L Foundation will be used H toward an independent N. research apprenticeship J , ' program this summer. The t prog.ram, under the direction of Chemistry Professor Dr. John G. Lanese will allow participants to do (~;·\independent work in ; conjunction with members of / . the Chemistry department. J Admission is open to Union undergraduates, and participants will be paid $60 a week. ( I • .t A grant of $5,000 has also IJ>een awarded to the Chemistry Department by the E. I. DuPont Company of Wilmington, Delaware. Ar01an In other exciting college n:ews, two articles on ·~sequential testing\ written hy Dr. Leo A. Aroian, P'rofessor of Industrial A.dministration, have been published in the professional journals ''Quality rechnology\ and ••Technometrics.\ Dr. Aroian is the orginator of the 's.equential testing method which has been used in the Apollo space program and also in the testing of drugs and consumer products. \It is unjustifiable on my pmt or on anybody else's in the selective seiVice to predict the future draft call requirements\. These were the words of Colonel J. W. Brokaw last night in Memorial Chapel, as he spoke on the mechanics ·Of the selective seiVice. Director of the Selective Service Bureaus in Long Island and Upper New York State, the Colonel stressed that the Draft Boards are responsible to \the federal agency charged with procuring manpower for our armed forces\. The size of the \call\ is determined by the Department of Defense. The Selective Service is not responsible for drafting men; it is merely the instrument of this federal agency. Thereby the Colonel refused to make any predictions or give any \precise mathematical formula\ as to this year's draft call. \H a wever\ he stated, \with present conditions prevailing, we'll miss the February CoL Brokaw then presented the case of a man 25 years eleven months old, who had not been drafted, was classified lA and gains a deferment. \When that deferment is ended, he will be at the top of the list.\ \If a man who is 22 years old, has a student deferment on December 31, 1970, and his draft board goes beyond his number, in 197 1 he will be at the top of the list\ He informed the students that although these men between the 1970 lists. During the Korean War we were even drafting 43 year old men from State Penal lnstitu tions. Transfer students or those men .who drop a semester from schoo1 are gamblers.\ If they return, the 1-SC deferment they receive cannot be renewed. \Draft classifications may vary yearly, and the only permanent classification is 'Deceased.' \s Admissions ApplicationsU p: F~K~!o!!~ndredWomenApply . With a week remaining for applications for admission to Union's first coed class to be received, the Admissions Office notes a considerable increase in the total number Second Bids In the second fratemitv rush, which ended last Wednesday, fifty additional freshmen were matched- with fraternities. Psi Upsilon· had the largest number of pledges, six, and Delta Phi was not matched with anyone. The flfty students, an additional 10% of the freshmen class who will now pledge, supplement tlie 180 (36%) who pledged after the first rush. Phi Epsilon Pi, the largest house, received five additional pledges, bringing their total to sixteen for the year. Beta Theta Pi, another large house, got three more new members, for a total of fourteen. Phi Gamma Delta had five matches, the second largest group, ahd two houses had four each. Andy Blumenthal, President of the I.F.C., commenting on the results, said that \It was about what our expectations were.\ He added that the fraternities could anticipate more bids in the near future, due to the shortness of the rush period just completed. ofapphcationsforadm!SS!Oll will total about 75, u . w·ll p t• . . I' to the freshman class of approximately one-third of n I 0 n I a r I C I pate n I 97 4. which will be women. The N • •- · :rhe Admissions Office classo~'74shouldtotal450, attonwtde Teac·h·t·-n estimates that a total of 2175 of which approximately 100 Gaylord Nelson (D- Wise.). A national teach-in committee has since been established to provide sponsorship and support for the local efforts. applications will be received, w i I l b e w o m e n . an increase of 24% over the approximately 100 will be 17 50 applications for women. admission to the class of '73. The big factor in the increase, according to Mr. Jasper A. D. Shupe III, Assistant Director of Admissions, is that applications for admission from women are being accepted. The number of applications frem men will have risen by only 50, while about 400 applications from women will be received. Early decision enrollments Competition This leaves 75 women to be chosen from an applicant pool of 375. The 300 male freshmen will be chosen from an applicant pool of 1800. The competition for male admission this year is considerable tougher than last year, when 490 were enrolled from an applicant pool of 1750. The Union College Prese1ve Your Environment Club announced it has plans to participate in the forthcoming Environmental Teach-In to be held on college campuses across the nation on April 22. Successful teach-ins on all campuses on the same day are intended to arouse public opinion concerning necessary steps to protect our environment. The idea for the national teach-in was first proposed by U.S. Senator Glee Clubs To Sing Here The combined glee clubs of Vassar and Union will appear in concert Wednesday in the Memorial Chapel. The concert, which will begin at &:30 p.m., is open to students without charge. The four-part program will begin with the Vassar College Glee Club, under the direction of Albert van Ackere, singing works by Matyal Seiber, Franz Schubert and Johannes Brahms. Hugh Allen Wilson will lead the Union Glee Club in works by Adriano Banchieri, John Wilbye, Aaron Copland and Eric H. Thirnan. The two clubs will be joined to present Johannes Brahms' \Schiksalslied ,\ and Part III, Autumn, of Franz Joseph Haydn's \The Seasons.\ Soloists for the evening will be Mark Barnfield, tenor, Patricia Francomano, mezzo-soprano, Sylvia Hummel, soprano, Keith Kibler, bass, and Kirk H. Vyverberg, baritone. The next local appearance of the Union Glee Club will be in February, when they will be joined by the glee club ofWilson College. Committee The nonpartisan committee is composed of the co-chairmen, Senator Nelson; Congressman Paul McClosky, Jr. (R-Calif.); Mr. Sydney Howe, President of the Conservation Foundation; Dr. Paul Ehrlich, Stanford University professor of biology; Mr. Harold Jordahl, associate professor of regional planning at the University of Wisconsin; Douglas Scott, a student at the University of Michigan; Charles Creasy, group leader of the Contemporary University student program at Federal City College; and Glenn Paulson, a student at Rockefeller University, Any Union student interested in working to organize the teach-in at Union should attend a meeting at 4:30 p.m., Wednesday, January 28, in room 110 of the Social Science Building, or contact Fred Press (372-0366), David Seeley (393-3941) or Ed Valentine (37 4-6304). ' I I I I, l i I .~ I ,,

PAGE 2 Curriculum The Faculty Council's approv&~l ,of the long-awaited Pass-Fail proposal is he'artening. What is especially encouraging is the rejection of all the amendments; the Council accepted the proposal ironed out by the Curricular Affairs Committee, whioh has a majority of students. Once again, the system has worked at Union. Without even a single raised voiCJe, significant progress has been made. · The Pass-Fail proposal is in deed a much-needed reform, but its scope is still to() limited. We see no reason why the program cannot be immediately expanded to three courses a y~ai'. Why should not Union men (and women) be able to take a Pass-Fail course every term'? But this is only a temporar::y measure. The best program is the one originally prop-osed more than a year ago by Dean Palmer: allow Pass-F'ail in everything other than major or required courses. UniOtn students should have the privilege of deciding for ihemselves whether or not they wish to be graded in their courses. We think such a move would encourage flexibility and experimentation. If the present proposal is successful, and there is no reason to think it will not be, the \unlimited\ program should be give a try. A program that has recently eome to our attention should be investigated. Vassar College has a system of \Reading Courses,\ which are worth one- half a course credit each. The courses are completely independent study; most, simply involve the presentation of an extensive {!)aper at their conclusion.. What distinguishes such courses from the Independent Study courses presently available here is that the Reading Courses are n()t limited to students majoring in the particular field i11. which they take the course. The rationale for the Iteading Courses is to enable those with only a minimum J;}f preparation, usually just the introductory course, to delve into the discipline on his own. To encoura.ge this type of work, tbe courses are all Pass-Fail. Although about twenty cou~ses actually appear in the catwogue, regular courses may be taken as Reading Courses if the professor so chooses. We think the program has a ~eat deal of merit. It allows extensive freedon and independent work, even for those whose main interest may he far removed from a discipline. It would work espe•cially well under the trimester system, where a half-coUl'se overload would not Le difficult. It should be seriottsly considered. ~ict· ~.; .... ~~ ' 11 onrnr 17 ?.~!. 95 ~iensta \U. 9J'='j) (! .. ~J.J.· Published Tuesday and Friday Editc.rial OHice, Old Gym, during the School year by the Uniolil. College. Publication Student Body of Union Officoe, Whitehurst Printing & College, Schenectady, N.Y. Binding Co., Inc .. 416-418 National Advertising Fifth Ave., Troy, 235-4450 .. Representative: National Entsred ill the Schenectady Educational Advertising Post .Office as Second Class Service, Inc., College Mail Matter. Subscription 20 Publishers Representative. 360 cents a copy; $6 a year Lexington Avenue, N. Y .C. delivered anywhere ·in the U n it~d Sta\tes. • Henry G. Fein William Ouzer Editors-in- Chid Peter J. We ingold ............. _ ... Managing Editor Jeff Bim .................... _ .. Business Manager William J. Holleran .................. Sports Editor Jody Saslow ................. _Photography Editor M. Paul Andrews ..... : ........ _ Contributing Editor Richard Patterson ............. _ Contributing Editor Neil S. Kramer ............... _ ... Editor Emeritus Staff: Robert ·A. Levine, Danltly Shocket, David Uguccioni, Louis Snltkoff, Tony Faga, Doug Wong, M. Grossman, Mike Gottlieb, Jolln Harrigan, Peter Bickerman, Steve Levy, Michelle Vottis, Lloyd Bims, Michael Swirsky, Neil Green, [)oug Tosch, George Kaplan, Ozaf/e<: Long, Marg Shugolr, Greg Hamlin, Mike Humber, Dennis Also/rom, Stu Moss, Bruce Garber, Hank Levine. .;,'\:\' ··~. JANUARY 27 1970 Your Draft Card Is Today's Oath Of Murder And Death: Editor's note: The following is a reprint by the Newman Club ·of an article by James Douglass. The Resistance message of today is: choose life. More explicitly: A draft card is today's pinch of incense to a more dangerous Caesar than any the early Christians ever faced, because no Caesar then ever had the power to murder the entire world. Your draft card puts you at the service of today's globally murderous Caesar. I.ts presence in your pocket says to him, \When you wish to kill in Vietnam, in Cambodia, in Laos, you may use may body!\ If you have a 2S on your card, it says further to that Caesar, \Leave me alone at least for now. I have to study while you force others to kill and die in my place.\ If you have a ministerial deferment, the draft card says simply, \Master of war, let me pray in peace-for others who must die!\ Don't Register Hence the Resistance message, \Choose life.\ Don't register for the service of death, don't carry the card of death, don't seek deferments or even the C.O. classification so that the ...wstem of death is upheld for others, don't step forward for death, don't take the oath of death. Choose life instead, the life of all men, and if that means suffering and going to Social Action Comm. Hee The Student Social Action Committee, meeting last Tuesday afternoon in Silliman Hall, discussed a super-structure organization to promote unity of all campus action. ''We are offering pre-arranged avenues of communication for any potential campus organization,\ stated Barry Katzman of the Social Action proposal. To offer assistance, but, \not control\ to new programs or committees is the intension of the program, emphasized Mr. Katzman. The Committee presently has access to local radio stations, high schools and newspapers. Through intra-organizational work, various issues_ originating from any source on the college might achieve internal-external public support . Mr. Katzman stressed that \each committee will be perfectly free to handle their affairs in their own manner with their own chairmen. We simply wish to promote inter-campus understanding.\ prison, then prison bec0rnes the price of life, a price worth paying for the life of mankind. And those who have risked their future for life have found in the process faith, hope, and an incredible community as well. The Resistance message is: Choose the life of non-violent, civil disobedience at draft boards, military installations, and defense industries. Confront death with the power of life, the life of truth-force which comes out of a man willing to pit his whole being against injustice. Chained and Gagged believe that at this moment in history, when the signs .of the times are Bobby Seale chained and gagged in an American court and Richard Nixon broadcasting to the world the primacy of American power, the place of a just man is in prison. It is time in America for men of any faith or belief which goes to the point of love and truth, to preach and live the good news, the good news of a loving, militant resistance to hatred and un-truth. The ''One-Two'' of Diamond ·Buying 1~ When selecting a special dia- mond, why not follow the example of the cognoscente? First the gem, then the mounting! This way, your ring reflects your own per- sonality, and you have the added confidence of choosing your diamond under ideal conditions. An un-mounted diamond cannot hide minute flaws or variances in cutting quality that affect value. In our store, you also have the educated guidance of a jew- eler whose knowledge is proven by membership in the American Gem Society. Come in soon and enjoy this special service. !&\ MEMBER AMERICAN GEM SOCIETY® Use your Master Charge Card Graubart & Sons (Schenectady's famous diamond shop, for three generations) 166 Jay St. Three Union Graduates in Family ,. I JANUARY 2 To the Editor I would li words about appeared in issue of pertaining to in West CoU people had the absence in that buil< notice on th at the studio inability t4 problem t unusual situ: of the s1 thought it W4 place the not and did so wi me. WRUC d< incorrectly Maintenance incompetant any of its ' long sus!! relatior Maintenance, electric·ians · done muc required for personally. I of the di e ncounte Main ten an< such as the in Davids multiple 1 routine and by the ext snow, and n that they heavily occ circumstance WRUC de endanger its Maintenance. we could successfully. they have m duties re attention th: apologize assumptions T To the Edito On Wecfu January 21, number ofp, removed froJ my office. My wal besides mar license, car r, security car and picture! sentimental contained t keys which I I would a person wh1 purse wo1 personal bel way whic incriminate etc. C. M. L Departn

by in of of of JANUARY 27, 1970 Letters to the Editor To the Editor: I would like to say a few words about the letter that appeared in the January 20 issue of Concordiensis pertaining to the radio lines in West College. Since many people had inquired about the absence of WRUC signal in that building, I posted a notice on the bulletin board at the studios explaining our inability to remedy the problem because of an unusual situation there. One of the station officers thought it would be better to place the notice in Concordy, and did so without consulting me. WRUC does not wish to incorrectly imply that the Maintenance Department is incompetant or malicious in any of its duties. We have long sustained a good relationship with Maintenance, particularly the electricians who have often done much more than required for WRUC and me personally. I know firsthand of the difficulties often encountered by the Maintenance Department, such as the water emergency in Davidson and other multiple problems both routine and unusual caused by the extreme cold and snow, and recognize the fact that they are often kept heavily occupied by such circumstances. WRUC does not desire to endanger its association with Maintenance, without whom we could not operate successfully. We realize that they have many more urgent duties requiring more attention than our needs and apologize for any haste assumptions on our part. Sincerely, Dennis Fazio Technical Director To the Editor: On Wednesday afternoon, January 21, my purse with a number of personal items was removed from a filing case in my office. My wallet contained, besides money, my driver's license, car registration, social security card, credit cards, and pictures which were of sentimental value. It also contained bank books and keys which I need. I would appreciate ittif the person who removed the purse would return the personal belongings in some way which would not incriminate him · by mail, etc. Sincerely C. M. Lumpkin, Secretary Department of Psychology Dear Editor, A critic, in whatever he chooses to criticize, is an observer. A published critic, while also observing, is an 0pinion-formulator both in his own mind and that of his readership. As such, he is bound to present substantial background material {i.e., evidence) to support his views. Needless to say, by this definition good critics are a rare commodity and on your newspaper staff, good critics suffer from non-existance. Two writers come to mind; Dan Shocket and Lance Falducciwitz. Mr. Shocket is a fun Writer, cute and tongue-thiu-cheek, but one gets the impression that he is only really happy with a good \skin flick.\ Mr. Falducciwitz (if, indeed, such a gentleman does exist) does not possess such a strength. The writing of this letter is provoked by Mr. Falducciwitz' January 23rd column on the \The Reivers\ and \The Arrangement.\ It is not enough that the author attempts to connect these two divergent movies with Mort Sahl, but he goes on to unmercifully criticize one of the pictures with his eye$ shut tight. The \Arrange- ment\ part of the joint review, while a frayed carbon copy, has its points. It may not move with originality, but the general outline is there. The unforgiveable portion of the article, whether one has seen ''The Reivers\ or not, is the lukewarm attempt to properly review it. Mr. Falducciwitz labors under the illusion that to criticize is to criticize negatively. This view is a popular one but one that takes a minimum amount of writing talent to execute. No attempt whatsoever is made to fairly evaluate the picture. The author shows his amazing lack of resources (and hints that he may not have seen the movie at all) by discarding Steve McQueen as \changing the focus of the story from Lucius to himself\ · which is not true. No attention is given in any form to young Mitch Vogel, as Lucius, and old Will Greer, as Boss; who are both powerful and inspirational in the shed scene at the film's close. Left out too, are Rupert Crosse, Sharon . . Farrell, Burgess Meridith, and the yellow Wheaton Flyer. The flagrant neglect in simply wri.ting off \The Reivers\ is astonishing, unbecoming a conscientimts critic and an insult to the paper's readership. Sincerely Michael Meserole '72 Blither Anyone interested in joining the Social Relief Committee or finding out information about its programs f<>r any reason is urged to contact Phil Di Sorbo, 250 Davidson, 346-5225 or 372-4541. A Seminar on the Care of Negro Hair will be featured at the February 2nd meeting of Families For the Future, 7:30 P.M. at the Schenectady Girls Club, 962 Albany Street (corner of Swan). The speakers will be Mrs. Lillie Nelson a Negro beautician and Mr. Eugene Venable a barber for 25 years. The next meeting of the Student-Faculty Bridge Club will be held at Hale House Faculty Lollnge on Tuesday February 3 at 8:00P.M. All those wishing to attend are invited to come. At the last meeting, on January 13, it was announced that Bob Lavin, of the class of '7 3, will be next year's President replacing Michael Fishman, who will be graduating. The results of the last tournment are as follows: First, Love-Brundage; Second, Coco- Le gregni; Third, Pro f. Bacon-Prof. Goodheart. Every Thursday between 12 noon and 1 p.m., at Veterans' Park people who are truly concerned about the people dying in Vietnam hold a vigil. Why don't you come also. DOUGLAS .'-ichcnectaJy 's l.caJmg .\f c11 's Shoe Str Jre BOSTONIAN* BATES\ WALL-STREETER HUSH PUPPIES\ WALK-OVER\ SEBAGO.MOCS MANSFIELD\ SNOW & AFTER SKI BOOTS Phone FR 4-8577 319 State Street Schenectady. N. Y. $1 OFF PURCHASE OF SHOES UPON 1'RESENTATION OF I. D. CARD PAGE 3 Freshman Bask·etbafl Falls to 12-1 Mariners Albany :H·ere Thurs. The freshmen basketball team bowed to a superior Kings Point squad on Saturday night, falling 8+ 76. The Mariners brought .afl 11-1 record in to the contest, as compared to the Gamet's 1-3log. The two squads ·played nearly even-up in the first half, with Jim Bolz pouring in 14 points for the Dutchmen. The Mariners, however, came out shooting in the second stanza, scoring 15 straight points to race into a. commanding 54-40 lead. Mike Doyle, who hit for 14 points, guard Curtis Rowe, and Bolz, who totaled 17 points for the Gamet, led a futile comeback effort~ but the rally fell short. Bob Concordiensis is proud 1o announce the pinni11g of Stephanie Lynne Forray to Editor-in-Chief Henry Fein. Miss Forrav is a sophomore at Vassar College and was a par1icipant in the Vassar-Wesleyan Semester in Madrid. Mr. Fein is a junior at Union. /) Quigley and Mike O'Connell each scored 16 for the wi1mers. TJ:J.e yearlings will seek to improve their deceiving 1-4 slate on Thursday night, when they battle the Danes of Albany State. Tap-off time at Memorial Field House is 8:00P.M. Tracf<sters Impress at Corne·ll Continued from Page 4 clocking while winning his heat in the two-mile. The mile relay team of Pete Erickson, Frosh Don McGough, Steve Wood, and Jaszczak also fared well, fmishing third in the time of 3:30.5. Jaszczak's time of 50.1 seconds was the fastest clocking on the team. Frosh Tim McCabe and McGough looked good in their heats ·of the 1 000 and 6 00, respectively. Besides running well in the middle distance event, McCabe anchored the two-mile relay team in the fine time of 2:05. This Friday the Dutchmen me e t M o hawk Valley Community College at the Field House in what should be an exciting meet. The contest starts at 7 :30 .. .7 ll •..t I .. ., ''~o \1'.:11)1&) lF \YOU GOTTA GO WHY NOT GO WITH US If you have 2 years of College left (grad or under-grad) and you're high on the \Fish Bowl List\; you can still go First Class ... as an AF OfficE!r. AFROTC has a 2-yr program that will pay you while you're still in school and even offers free flying lessons (if you qualify). BE A LOTTERY WINNER Come visit with AF ROTC a1 Hoadley House • G;r call 374-6523 any timE! · to find ollt more about the program. BUT HURRY! TIIVIE IS RUNNING OUT!! I i ll ! .r

PAGE 4 Sumrising Swim Tops Hobart By BRUCE GARBER In sophomore backstroker Gary Needel's words, Saturday's 54-48 swimming upset over Hobart was the \best meet of my life.\ Coach Bob McMurray came up with several surprises as he snatched the victory fmm former Union swimming mentor Frank Beaudry, and stretched his teams record to a surprising 3-0-1. The Garnet, hungry for the win after last winter's narrow defeat to the Statesmen, started off fast in the contest. The medley relay team of Needel, John Horwath, · Bob Szatrowski, and Steve Hill captured an early seven-point lead for the Dutchmen. Hobart came right back, hewever, as Statesman Bob Coffin beat Lloyd Mayer and Tom Klinkow in the 1000-yard freestyle, and came back in the 200-yard freestyle to edge Burt Yank.iver by a touch. Going Statesmen Pinned . . . By BILL HOLLERAN The Garnet wrestling squad returned to its winning ways on Saturday afternoon, scoring an easy 29-8 victory over the Hobart Statesmen. The only blemish on the grapplers' slate is last week's 1 o s s t o p o we rho u s e Springfield College. Naysim Simon and Bill Munno, usually Union's weekly mat standouts, remained in the background on Saturday. Simon ho-hummed his way to an uneventful6-2 decision, while Munno won on a forfeit. Pete Kenyon, the Garnet's massive heavyweight, flattened his opponent in 7:40 to score a pin. into the diving event, Hobart had nearly made up the early deficit, trailing by one, 22-21. Newly acquired yearling diver John Ludwig, however, shocked the crowd and the Statesmen by sna.tching first place. Breaststroker John Horwath grabbed third place to add .to the Garnet point total. Freshman Hill upset Jim Poole of the Statesmen in the 200-yard butterfly, winning in an impressive time of 2: 18. Yankiver and Dave Seward took one, three in the 1 00-yard freestyle to stretch tl1e Garnet lead, but Hobart roared back to sweep both the 500-yard freestyle and the 200-yard backstroke, despite stalwart Needel' s :2:22 effort in the latter event. The Statesmen led by eight points entering the final event. the 200-yard b reastroke, but a timely sweep by the Garnet put Union up by one. Knowing that everything depended on the last relay, McMurrary saved his strongest freestylers, (Hill, M. Horwath, Seward, and Yankiver), who combined impressive splits to dash any last Hobart hopes. JANUARY 27, 1970 Sophomore standout Jim Tedisco on the way to two of his 31 points. against Kings Point Saturday. He suffered an ankle injury late in the contest and will miss one weel<. Flashy freshman star Penn Sheldon turned in the premier performance of the afternoon, pinning his adversary in 3:18- Sheldon is the only unbeaten and untied wrestler on the squad. Hoop Looks Good In Loss; Tediseo Hurt Coach Gerry Everling was especially pleased by the efforts of Bill Simson and Gary Morris, who took on Hobart's best two matmen. Simson dueled Mike Dobbin to a 2-2 deadlock in the 167 bout, while Morris scored a 6-4 win over Joe Rinaldis at 190. Ron Ruhl and frosh Phil Reed completely overwhelmed their opponents to score impressive 7-0 decisions. Ruhl' s win, however, was even more spectacular since he had moved up to 134 for the match. Track Opener: Rich Only Win By GREG HAMLIN The varsity track team traveled to Ithaca Saturday to compete in the Cornell Invitational. Mike Rich copped the Garnet's only victory of the meet, winning the high jump at 6'3 \. The jump was a new Union record. Co-captain Rich J aszczak also did well. Jaszczak captured a second place in the 600, running a l: 13.5. The soph flash might have won the race, but was forced to break stride when the eventual winner cut in front of him with about 80 yards to go. Paul Forbes was the lone distance man to really shine. He ran to an impressive 10:07 Continued on Page 3 By MARK SHUQOLL An inspired performance by the Garnet against a heavily--favored opponent dominated the Union basketball picture this weekend. The Dutchmen threw a scare into the Mariners of Kings Point on Saturday night, before bowing 80-72. However, even more important than the final score was a spill sophmore star Jirp Tedisco took with just under two minutes remaining in the game. Tedisco, who is making a concerted run at the Union College scoring record, had his legs shot out from under him as he went up for a jumpshot_ Tedisco Hurt He writhed in pain before being carried off the court. X-rays, however, proved negative, and the injury was dismissed as a severely sprained ankle. Tedisco will miss four or five days of pratice before returning to the squad. The Garnet are not scheduled to see action again until the third of February at Trinity. and it 1s ex.pectea that Tedisco will be ready to play at that time. ~ A determined team effort by the Dutchmen almost staved off the Mariners. Union trailed throughout the first half, but pulled to within one point at halftime on a tip-in by the diminutive Tedisco at the buzzer. Brief Lead In the second half, the Gamet managed a five-point advantage at one point, but were caught by the visitors with just under ten minutes to play. The Mariners, often getting off two, three, and four shots at the basket, pulled away to a 70-60 margin, and the Dutchmen never again saw the lead. A desperation zone press defense employed by Union in an attempt to narrow the gap frequently backfired, as the Mariners converted numerous easy baskets. The Garnet, with one starter as tall as 6'3\ were up against a team that averaged 6 '5\ in the front court. Rit Gallucci, Union's 6'3\ center, played another fine game against his much taller NEW YORK TO LONDON- SUMMER VACATION TRIPS ROUND TRIP S169. NOW FILLING - SMALL DEPOSIT AND PAYMENTS· SEND FOR FREE DETAILS. STUDENT GLO,BE ROAMERS BOX 6575 HOLLYWOOD, FLORIDA 33021 opponents, scoring 11 points, four of which came on spectacular tip-ins. He also hauled in 17 rebounds. Captai£1 Jim Getman added a season high of 12 points to the Union offense. Dave Shame::s scored 7 points, while pulli11~ down 6 rebounds, and passin~ off for 5 assists. Hol\'.'ever the story, as it has ;\}eei1 all season, was Tedisco. The 5'8\ backcourt Grpupsof: Jeans Suil8 Sportcoats .()u terwear Slacks Flairs :Sweaters Shirts Bells man piled in 31 points before his forced departure. The sophmore, who is now averaging 26.9 points a game, is closing in on Toby Lustig's season scoring record of 500 points. He needs 167 points in ten games to eclipse the former record. Tedisco is also weel in front of Lustig's season high average of 23.8 points per game. J/2 OFF on Thurs., Fri., & Sat. Thurs. nite till 9 ~<~ ~ .{, ~·· • t,., ~ .. Fot1ndeJ cH Lli VOLUME, 99NO. 34 SCHENECTADY, N'EW Y \1\.· Jarvis Tyner, speaking last night in united front of blacks and working class whites to transform the United States into a Socialist state. Claiming that capitalism has outlived its llsefulness Tyner advocated an aggressive trade union-ism to combat suppression from a Nixon and Agnew led right wing. FaiJ Ren On the hee successful coT ]'l(,<) pr' Department Langu~gcs ha~ 1 'l70 Co1 EJuL·ation in I The program two groups ' each. who French fami Angers or Rer arc universit' were the site sojourn. As with thi the academic equivalent required cou Comp. Ed. an Blues Guitarist B.B. K Perforntance Here Fe: By PETER BICKERMAN Blues guitarist B.B. King will headline Union's Winter Weekend. King will perform in the Chapel, Saturday night February 14th at 8:30 p.m. Tickets will $3.25 if purchased in advance and $3.50 at the door. B.B. (for, \Blue's Boy\) King has built such a solid musical reputation that some critics consid~r him the father of modern blues. IGng has been a performer for more than twenty of his forty years. Until recently, almost all his performances consisted of one-night stands . before black audiences in the South. Despite playing as much as 365 nights a year, King was unknown in the north with the exception of a few blues followers. In recent years, King has been discovered by critics in the urban North, and has received long overdue praise. King's new album, on A.B.C. Records, is entitled, \live and Well\. Additionally, he has a fast moving single out entitled, \The Thrill Has Gone.\ 1 Upon seeing King perform live, one is never able to forget the piercing guitar, which King calls \lucille.\ King plays his guitar with versatility and emotional intensity. It is as if \Lucille\ is pouring out the story of her sorrows as King sings out his. Met's Frances Y eend Sings In Cha_pel Sun. Miss Frances Y e end, soprano and leading artist of t he M e t r o p o li tan Opera Association, will present a . program of lieder and arias at Memorial Chapel Sunday at 7:30p.m. Miss Yeend starred last summer at the Lake George Opera Festival, where she sang the title role in Richard Strauss' \Ariadne auf Nax.os.\ .She will open Sundais concert with an aria, \Ariande's Monlogue,\ from the Strahlss opera. As an interpreter of leading operatic roles, Miss Yeend has won a special niche in music's Hall of Fame. Her first appearance with the Metropolitan Opera in 1961, in Richard Strauss' \Elektra was called \a debut of significant voice and artistry.\ Prior to the Met, she was a stalwart of the New York City Opera, which revived Puccini's \Turandot\ especially for her. The gui success is a the universal blues mu performer wl audience, wi or frills. The Mot will be one the Italian : The set elaborate e1 There VI Union stud theNottM Picture • Beardsly.

PAGE 2 Snow!!! With problems of Security and Safety still fresh in the minds of those on campus hit by robbery or forced to the outer regions of campus for parking; a far more dangerous threat lingers on unattended~ Clearly evident to the residents of Fox and Davidson is the pe:ril of falling ice and snow fro.m the slanted roofs to the already ice-slicked walks below. That someone might be hit by the hundreds of pounds of falling snow and seriously injured or killed was always possible; that little m· nothing was done about it is appalling. In taking immediate action to avert the danger the college did not act until Monday when cherry pickers aided maintenance to sweep some of the snow fr0m the roofs. Even in this, the job was left half done and residents of the new dorms are still treated to the intermittent crescendo of snow and ice crashing heavily to the ground. That the college did not take really effective and early measures to avert this danger is deplorable and even at this late date something should be done to clear the roofs. For the future, though, effective melters must be installed. The school should immediately begin the purchase of appropriate safely CI{Uipment or the repair of existing facilities as they so miserably failed in the last storm. The danger here is clear and the road to remedy relatively simple and straight forward. Action must be taken soon before a real tragedy occurs. While not an imminent danger, the problem of mud is onee again with us. As the temperature climbed into the forties this week, the road behind the Science Ct~nler ('OBstruction site returned to the quagmire it was at its worst this fall. At pr<~Hent, conditions on the route from Socail ~cieneeH all the way to the Fieldhouse are simply intolerable. Wt~ think that tht~ construction company can do something to all<~viale the situation. Not only is walking diffitult at lwst. but driving over the extremely potholed road does little to aid shock absorbers (mechanical or otherwise). The road should be regraded imme diatdy with crushed rock. Its present grading, even under Pass-FaiL doesn't make it. ~ia~· ~.;- ... }~ '1T nnror 17 i{ ~! 95 ltirtt.!iia ~ 9:;'-.,!1& ~~~J.· Published Tuesday and Friday Editorial Office, 0 ld Gym, during the School year by the U njon College. Publication Stu dent Body of Union Office, Whitehurst Printing & College, Schenectady, N.Y. Binding Co., Inc .. 416-418 N atiorlal Advertising Fifth Ave., Troy, 235-4450:. Representative: National Entered in the Schenectady Educational Advertising Post Office as Second Class Service, Inc., College Publishers Representative. 360 Lexington Avenue, N.Y.C. Mail Matter. Subscription 20 cents a copy; $6 a year delivered anywhere in the United States. Henry G. Fein William Ouzer Editors-in-Chief Peter J. Weingold ................ . MaTUJging Editor Jeff Bim ....................... Busiuess Manager William J. Holleran .................. Sports Editor Jody Saslow .................. Photography Editor M. Paul Andrews ..... : ......... Contributing Editor Richard Patterson .............. Contributing Editor NeilS. Kramer ................... Editor Emeritus Staff: Robert ·A. Levine, Danny Shocket, David Uguccioni, Louis Snltkoff, Tony Faga, Doug Wong, M. Grossman, Mike Gottlieb, John Harrigan, Peter • Dickerman, Steve Levy, Michelle Vottis, Lloyd Birns, Michael Swirsky, Neil Green, Doug Tosch, George Kaplan, Ozar/e~ Long, Marg Shugol/, Greg Hamlin, Mike Humber, Dennis Also[rom, Stu Moss, Broce Garber, Hank Levine. JANUARY 30, 1970 . \ ·Letters To The Editor To the Editor: From: Chi Psi's Committee of Concerned Students for the Advancement of Social Intercourse. In reply to the anno~:mcement in the January 27 issue of Concordiensis of the pinning of Stephanie Lynne Forray to Editor-in-chief Henry Fein, the following reactions were voiced at the last meeting of the above committee: In the immortal words of Putney Swope. \No Shit ! ! ! So what else is new? We are just tickled pink! For this we pay $15.00 per term. All the news that is fit to print. So what! Big deal. For lands sake alive! Will wonders ever cease! Henry who? p.s. Some of us one the above committee have some scant fears that this reply will not be printed in the next issue of Concordiensis. If it is not printed in the next ·issue we demand a personal explanation as to the reasons for its rejection. Remember fellows, this paper belongs to all of us. Thank you Editor's Note: The above letter was received yesterday in the Editorial Offices at Bronner House. As it is our policy not to print unsigned letters Bill Ouzer, Editor-in- Chief, called Chi Psi. The first time he called a girl answered and when asked for a representative of the \Chi Psi· Committee of Concerned Students for the Advancement of Social Intercourse\. she hung up. Calling back, directly, a male voice answered and assuredly stated that he knew of the committee and its \ten or THE PEANUT STORE Featuring PLANTERS HOT ROASTED PEANUTS and Nutmeats from all over the world. 406 STATE ST. DIAMA~TE'S Enjoy Our Fine Home Cooked Italian Food in Our Comfortable D.ining Room Opp. The Brownell Gate on Nott Street Open Doily 1 0 to 1 A.M. Sundays 5 P.M. to 1· A.M. twelve members\. After hearing an explanation of the poHcy requiring signed Letters- To-The-Editm the \brcother\ told us that Phil Spencer '71 would setve as spokesmen for the Chi Psi Cemmittee. According to the Student Directory, The Chi Psi Composite, and a check with the main college switchboard Phil Spencer, '71 does not exist here at Union, or at Chi Psi. Remember fellows, intercourse may only belong to a few of us but truth should belong to us all. To the Editor, We are pleased to be enlightened to the fact that you, the editor, are now pinned to your lady friend. We wish you our heart-felt blessings and hope you will have a long and rewarding relationship with your chosen one. However, we do not feel that this newspaper should be employed by you, its editor, as a medium for personal \society messages.\ Yours truly, Eugene Kokot '70 Bob Ditter '71 To the Editor: I find it somewhat strange that the college--supposedly in its concern for the safety and welfare of its students---can put out a publication concerning the consequences for the possession of firearms or the participation in campus \disorders\ and yet does nothing concerning the hazards of falling snow from the roofs of Davidson and Fox Houses and Carnegie Hall. There is little consolation for me if in the knowledge that my family can sue the college should I be maimed or killed by falling ice and snow. Michel Williams 71 Appearing at the Coffeehouse, Old Chapel, this Friday at 9:00 p.m. is Utah Phillips, a leading .foil< music composer and performer from the American Southwest. A well-known artist , having written for such big names as Rosalie Sorrels, Tom Paxton, Flatt and Scruggs, and Joan Baez, Phillips intermixes a selection of his own songs and traditional tunes about the railroads, labor, the Dust Bowl and the Depression, and politics, with his own special variety of Southwestern humor. Come Friday night at 9:00 to Old Chapel to see Utah Ph ill ips, for a memorab I e experience. Admission $1.00. At the door. Peter Pause 535 Nott Street CIVIL ENGINEERING SENIORS! YOUR FUTURE CAN BE IN TRANSPORTATION Our expanding transportation engineering program includes an annual l/2 billion dollars in highway construction. No Exam - Tuition refunds for Graduate Study. See our recruiter on February 16, 1970. Visit your Placement Office Now for brochures and SIGN UP to hear the full story, or write to: Personnel Bureau NEW YOUK STATE DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION State Campus Building 5, Albany, New York 12226 : I ,• .I JANUAR' By M. PJl Most st disillusior progress of in rand yesterday < \You k:J said Mich junior who \The guys< get called. hasn't mad or it is so sr matter.\ The lott designed anxiety of over the un called, wit! almost cert: and the exempted group waul to board. reached th filling theil and now s say they w ll}eet their under the of 60. Proj r4te of 30 mean that n]n throug npmbers b) · \It was by the System,'' iv\anaging We ingold, number is numbers Wl g.1:1ys in th devastated were jubila lbO are s too.\ . Mr. w, doubted t would mak' the draft adding: \I draft H meaningful word.\ John St whose num the lottery NEW Yl ROUND ANDPP

I : I . I ; I I ! _, ay to 26 JANUARY 30, 1970 . Draft L!lttery Has Caused Frustration Among Students By M. PAU LANDR EWS Most students .expressed disillusionment with the progress of the draft lottery in random interviews yesterday at Union College. \You know it's a fraud,\ said Michael Horwath, a junior whose number is 99. \The guys at 360 are going to get called. The new system hasn't made any difference, or it is so small that is doesn't matter.\ a number of unanswered He said that the typical questions. A lot of guys I've attitude toward the lottery talked to are asking questions was one of \frustration. as, it you· have a student Nobody knows where they deferment now can you get a are. I would say that the day different deferment after after the lottery numbers graduatioN? A Union College were announced the~e were at graduate is qualified to teach least 40 men ·in my office in schools,. but he doesn't wanting to know all kinds of know whether he can get a things I didn't have the deferment or not.\ answer to.\ Pro f. David Snider, Mr. Snider said that Coordinator of Religious \apparently many boards Activities and campus draft ·themselves are in the dark counselor, agreed with Mr. about how the lottery Steedman that students are operates.\ He added that the uncertain about many aspects lottery \certainly hasn't of the lottery. \Most students accomplisped Nixon's original ask, how does it operate?\ intention__ of relieving the Mr. Snider said. anxiety over the draft.\ ' I I. Natural Awe With ligh~,hearted wonder I danced through the golden fields of green ami yellow hue and elim:hed the tallest pine to sec the sparkling blue PAGE ·3 of the seven seas which lay before me 1 in rolling harmony and when my eyes had drunk of all the majesty that they eouhl take, I lay down on the soft. accepting (~arth and awaited the glorious dawn of a new day. John Harrigan The lottery was originally designed to relieve the anxiety of draft-age youths over the uncertainty of being called, with the first third almost certain to be inducted and the third certain to exempted while the middle group would vary from board to board. But many boards reached the number 30 in filling their January quotas, and now some local boards say they will not be able to . llleet their February quotas under the announced ceiling of 60. Projecting the current r~te of 30 a month would mean that the lottery would r4n through nearly all 366 njlmbers by end of this year. · Trial Of Chicago Seven Is Travesty? · \It was a great big put-on by the Selective Service System,'' said Concordy ~anaging Editor Peter Weingold, a junior whose number is 2. \When the numbers were first picked the g.1:1ys in the first 100· were dtwasta ted while the last I 00 were jubilant. Now the last IbO are starting to sweat too.\ · Mr. Weingold said he doubted that the lottery would make any difference in the draft call this year, adding: \I don't think this is draft reform in any meaningful sense of the word.\ John Steedman, a senior whose number is 7, criticized the lottery for havi~g \raised By RAY KRISE, JR. The attention span of the public is incredibly short. Look at all the things that have faded away through inattention - the Vietn·am aggression, Spiro Agnew, oil on California's beaches, Gary Puckett and the Union Gap, and the Chicago Conspiracy Trial. ' The trial is a farce and a travesty - there is no other way to put it. Seven men (it used to be eight, but Bobby Seale is now serving a four year contempt-of-court sentence, which started off with the pigs hitting him in the testicles) are being tried for allegedly conspiring to incite violence during the ·t968 Democratic Convention in Chicago. The prosecution bases its claims on things like Yippie leader Jerry Rubin's demonstration of the dreaded YIP-weapon, Lace. Lace was a spray-on chemical that was supposed to make everybody screw in the streets, and Jerry NEV\1 YORK TO l-ONDON- SUMMER VACATION TRIPS ROUND TRIP S1G9. NO\/V FILLING SMALL DEPOSIT AND PAYMENTS- SEND FOR FREE DETAILS. STUDENT GLOBE ROAMERS BOX 6575 I-lOLL YV\1000, FLORIDA 33021 found two couples who were eager to demonstrate its effects. to· newsmen. It was, of course, a put-on. But the court doesn't think .so. The defense attorneys are trying desperately to win the case for their clients. It is no put-on. But the court thinks it is. Witness part of the official transcript on the day Allen Ginsberg testified: Q. ...what did you do when you saw the police (attack)? Ginsberg: started to chant, Ooommm. Ooommm. Prosecution: All right, we have had a demonstration. The Court: All right. Prosecution: From here on, I object. The Court: You haven't said you objected. Prosecution: I do after the second one. The Court: After two of them? I sustain the objection. There are other examples, but that will sPrve. The court Graubart & Sons may run sma'll ads, but they have big values. Schenectady's famous d•omond shop, lor three generations) 166 Joy St. Three Unian Gracluates In Family. is being run by Mr. Foran, the prosecuting attorney, who is the mouthpiece of the government. The government wants those seven guys, and it is goint to get them. The emerging life-style is on trial by the dying life-style, and the Nixons and the Julius Hoffmans are going to take as many Brothers and Sisters with them as possible when they go. And the sad thing is - none of you cats seems to ELECTRICAL ENGINEERS MECHANICAL ENGINEERS give a shit. I think \Volunteers of America\ by the Airplane is about the most often-played song in D'Andrea's, but that's because Treat is an Airplane nut. I see all these cats walking aroung campus looking like they're on their way to the Revolution, when really all they're trying to do is Impress some Skidmore chick. Continued on Page 5 Norden· will be an rumpus Graduating Electrical Engineers and Mechani- cal Engineers are invited to discuss career op- portunities in research, design, development and manufacturing in areas such as: Airborne Radar Systems I Pilot Display Systems I Ground Support Equipment I Advanced Com· puler Techniques I Advanced Electromechani· cal Design Techniques I Optical Devices ·! Norden's location in Norwalk, Connecticut is easily accessible to the entire New York metro• politan area. For convenient appointment, please! make ar• rangements in advance through your Placement Office. · N · d United or en DIVISIONOtr • ~•rc·raft An Equal Opportunity Employer (M&F)

PAGE 4 Professor Eme11itus of History Frederick iB.r()rlller, now living in Winston•Se1lem, North Carolina, :sj:lot1ed the following news item and forwarded it as an interesting sidelight. The following excerpted from '~IYI all! Arrested in Robbery of Wachovia Branch Bank\. \law Enforcement off·icers were looki11g for a li!i.ht green 1962 or 1963 Oldsmobile. Shortly after the robl>ery, they found a car fitting the ' description, with the engine still warm. lhe car bore a sticker on the rear windshield ,f,ror:n Uni()n College in Schenectady, New York. On the ree~r illl\lm~er was an advertising sticker for Reynolds Aluminum;•• 1 We might conjectuYe ·from this that :p~e\l\ha~ps our Placement Qf.fice has been a little more ;c~r;eati\e than anyone thought or perhaps Junior Year Comp Ed has {)one too far. JAN UAHY 30, 1910 ••secret Of Santa, Vittoria \Sure To Produce Yawns by LANCE FALDVCCIWITZ \The Secret of Santa Vitteria\ is a professional, heavy-handed, mechanical film lacking in imagination and integrity and full of comprimises. The novel has been reduced to the West common denominator, guaranteed not to confuse or offend anyone. The film deals with an Italian village's attempt to hide one million bottles ·of the local wine from the occupying Germans. The mayor of the village, Bombolini (Anthony Quinn), is a clown who must bring the plan off. Injected into the situation is a countess (Virna Lisi), an Italian deserter (Sergio Franchi) who becomes her lover, Bambolini's shrewish wife (Anna Magnani), and two teenage lovers who naturally get married. Big Lips Kramer's direction througho1:1t is perfunctory but unimaginative, except in one disastrous kissing scene where the wide Panavision is filled with two mouths kissing. The fol!lr .gigantic lips is one of the most awesome sights I have ever seen on any screen. Tim Buckley And His Music Make A Blue Afternoon The novel gave you the feel of a village that depends on wine for its livelihood. Stan ely Kramer, the director, did not feel this was necessary. The result is that the audience never realizes the threat the wine loss is. In the movie it represents a 1oss of income; the novel explained it was a loss of a lifestyle. Kramer erroneously supposes that endless closeups of old, gnarled faces gives the film the needed depth. Anthony Quinn is at home as Bambolini the con man, but is pathetic, not comic, as Bambolini the clown. The first scene is supposed to be humorous, but Quinn plays it straight. Comic acting requires a series of unnatural reactions to produce the laughter. The closer these comic reactions come to reality, the better the actor. Jack Lemmon, Walter Mathau, and James Garner are men who have mastered this craft. Quinn's natural by M. GROSSMAN To start off and get it over with, blah blah blah. And now that all your minds are corrupted, I shall begin. I am about to do a review of Blue Afternoon by Tim Buckley. To show you how poor my musical tastes are (even though I don't think bad, Juan Rodriguez, the music critic for the Montreal Star thinks it's bad. I don't like him either ... ), this album was roundly denounced by the Montreal Star as being absurd, with no musical value and even less lyrical nlue, but I think it's great., or otherwise I wouldn't review it (unless an alb'll:m, like Banchee for example, was really bad) · great. In any case, Buckley has progressed from doing kind of folk-rock to doing a kind of folk-jazz thing, his words in both cases being basically folk while the musical background has been changing. Instead of being heavy on electric guitars with strong down beats, he now has a free-wheeling jazz improvisation with xylophone and soft guitar and things. His words have also progressed from appealing to the plastic fantastic lover buy buy buy money money money thing which everybody can dance Phl)ne 372..()528 PARK PIZZERIA FREE DELIVERY Italian Grinders Our Specialty Behind Davidson Hall - One Block from the Camptls 25 Park Place Schenectady, N.Y. to at weddin,gs (I'm not knocking darncing, 'cos it's one of the ol.drest and most widely spreadi o()t:\ga:sms known to man, and I'n1 ne>t knocking his first a1bUJ11 \vhkh does have some gp(Jd s:tuff on it, but I am kiJ(>ockin g marriage 'cos as an insli illtion, it really · messes you tnp · long live common laVI) to a poetic thing which iSJre ally beautiful ifyou can getintoit {I realize it's very hard f()r you t() get into anything, Elt.JHry ). Another tb-irng that he's doing is trying to fit the words and th.e musk together, so tl11ey l10th A ow along together and create a clearer image in your mind. On one song, called The River, the mu!lic is kind of slow an· easy.f1owing and relaxing, soundin.g like a river · swirling, know itlg .all to be known and say irtg a[] that it knows to those who will listen, and stil!'n~ainiaining its superiority and awe·inspiring grandeur ( I hope ;that's the right -American spelling) like the Mississippi' o0r some other great and fan\Je.d AmerLcan river. The worcis to this song are about flowting down a river. If, while lying back on your bed, J'OU ',re with somebody you dig and it's dark and you c!C:lse your eyes, you will actually feel Like you're flowing ,d<>wll a river Pennel Esso Nott S 1r eet Corner, Of Van 'J,r anke11 Editors-Note: The opinions expressed in this article are not necessarily those of this Newspaper or of the author, either, for that matter. Make il bOth wars! YOU CAN MAKE GOOD AND DO GOOD IN AN JETNA CAREER Continued on Page 5 Insurance is a service business. It serves people. What- ever your major. you can sntisfy your pocketbook a:qp yout' consciencP. in om~ of I h£~f>e basic career areas: • • • ADMINISTRATIVE ANALYTICAL SALES MANAGEMENT If you · d I i k P. t o h e a r m ore a b o u t do i ng your t h in g a t h:tna. here's what to do: • Ask for R copy of \Your Ovvn Thing'' at your Placement office. • Make an appointment to see our representath·e. He'll be on campus on: FEBRUARY 2, 1970 OUI1 CONCERN IS PEOPLE - Ll FE & CASUALTY .\n Equal Uppurllltltly Emplu~L'l ,md .\ Plllno; tor Pl'ogn•:;:; Company

P~GE5 A CAUSA PER SA PAROLE ASSAI i'Chic:ago Triail A Travesty :Continued from Page 3 Dig this guys: t'he 'Revolution is here, you can ask Brother Fred Hampton about that; but we're not the ones who started it. Doesn't matter. Dead is dead, no matter why. Do something, damn it all. Live. Good Vibes There's gonna be a People's Music Festival on Easter Weekend in Florida. It's gonna be five bucks a head (unless you're an Indian, in which case you get in for free - it's for their benefit), and it's run by the people, not the Capitalists from Woodstock or Atlanta. Jefferson Airplane, Byrds, Canned Heat, Chambers Bros. are among those expected. Watch this space for time and place. Santa Vittoria Heavy Handed Continued from Page 4 style negates much of the comedy .. The rest of the cast can be described as cute, with sympathies going to Virna Lisi and Sergio Franchi for having to spout miserable lines. The movie is stolen by m actor whose name is lost in the credits who plays Quinn's sidekick; he knows the art of ~omic timing and gets the :nost out of his lines. The color photography is 1retty, and with the limited :omedy success, the best way o see this movie would be .toned. If you do see the film, go :arly. The preview to \Viva vlax!\ is being shown, and is 'he best trailer I've seen in a ong time. Professional Typing Service 13M Selectric. Greek and Vlath symbols. Choice of :ype styJe. Experienced in 'yping Doctoral theses. ~easonable rates. )ependable. ~all 489·6978 any time. JANUARY 30, 1970 A fresh look at The technology of moving things That's right! Grumman's real business is the technology of moving things ... men and machines in purposeful patterns within a great diversity of origins, destinations and tactical situations. Speed is often, but not always, the answer. Performance reliability-in spite of ma.ny interfaces-is the thing. In close-in combat \dog fights\-an aircraft with speed, maneuverability and armaments ... the F-14 Air Superiority Fighter. In lunar exploration--, The Lunar Module which successfully landed the astronauts on the moon. In areas of enemy activity-an aircraft with track and search radar that can locate, identify and lock on to the target, even in zero visibility ... the A6A Intruder, and advanced versions. In early warning emergencies-an aircraft that can extend the eyes and ears of a Navy task force at sea through radar and computers that alert interceptor aircraft to impending enemy attacks ... the E2A Hawkeye, and advanced versions. Far above the earth, a satellite that can discover more about the evolution of the universe ... the Orbiting Astronomical Observatory. Add Deep Submersibles, Hydrofoil seacratt, High-speed Ground Transportation systems, Corporate aircraft and Lunar Surface vehicles, and you get some idea of how Grumman is extending the perimeters of the technology of moving things. At Grumman the opportunity for moving is presented in abundance to Physics, Aero, Civil, Mechanical, Electrical/Electronic, Cllelllical, Industrial Engineering or Technology Majors determined to find the right vehicle for their careers. Grumman Representative will be on Cam pus February 6, 1970 To obtatn Grumman Ltterature and arrange an on-campus interview, contact your College Placement Olltce. If an on-campus tntervtew tS not convenient, send comprehenstve resume to Mr. Richard N. Haug. Manager College Relattons/Recruitrnent. Dept. GR-251. GRUMMAN AEROSPACE CORPORATION Bethpage • Long Island • NeVIl York An Equal Opportun1ly Employer CM/ F)

PA9E 6 JANUARY 30, 11}7Q-.~ .~ .. ew·-----·•-- .._. ,.., ., On Today' s SCene Off Weekend A Good Thing:. with Bl LL HOLLERAN In the wake of Union's 22-13 loss to Springfield College two weeks ago, many people probably wondered exactly why the Gamet scheduled such a tough opponent. It had seemed apparent that Union was going to be beaten; what sense was there in Injured Tedisco Back Tues: · throwing any chances for an unbeaten season otJt the window'? Grappkr coach Gerry Everling has the answers tu these questions, and convincing answers they are. The primary Jeason he sehecluled the powerhouse Indians at the last minute, Everling explains, was to provide top-flight competition for the squad, in general, and for certain individuals, in particular. \It was too early in the season to worry about an unbeaten season,\ Everling points out, ' 1 especially with Kings Point, St. Lawrence, and Colgate on thschedule.\ The individual wrestlers iH question arc primarily Run Ruhl, Bill Muunu(both lightweights), and Naysin1 Simon. It is no secret that, although they are not starved for quality competition, Ruhl, Munno, and Simon have Iife ·comparitively e()sy in their weights. Trio Wins Easily The trio usually destroys the opposition week by week. Last weekend's match against Hohart was a pr.ime example, as Ruhl and M unno each overwhelmed their adversaries to score impressive 7-0 decisions, while Simon handily won a 6-1 victory. In efforts to provide better competition for the matmen in the past, Everling has switched his wrestlers, particularly Ruhl, Munnu, and Simon, back and forth betweer1 weight cla~ses so that they will face the best opponents .• Ever ling sent Ruhl. Munnu and .190-lb Gary Morris to the M .I.T. Tournament over the Clui'stmas recess fur the same reason. The Garnet mentor described the tourney as \great experience for the lightweights.\ M un no went all the way to the finals before losing to M.l.T's Warren Crow, a two-time National Champion, while Ruhl bowed to Crow in the semis. Everling is especially concerned with developing better competition for his wrestlers because he plans to send his best grapplers to the NCAA College Division Nationals this winter. Everling feels that his wrestlers will perform well only if they wrestle quality opponents during the regular season. 'There's no sense,\ he comments, \in going out there only to get knocked off in the first round.\ Thus Springfield College, one of the biggest \jock\ schools in the East, was scheduled only a week and ahalfbefore the match. The Garnet were beaten handily and the undefeated Simon was decisioned by Indian captain Art Zeigler, a fifth-place finisher in the NCAA tourney last season. Everling, however, feels that the loss did the team, and especially Simon, \a word of good.\ Rough to Schedule Everling confesses that ·next year will be rough, in regards to scheduling tough opponents. Schedules have been made out years in advance, but the Garnet coach would nonetheless like to add a really tough team or two to the slate, if possible. Budget problems, however, may evern preclude the scheduling of Springfield again next winter. Everling also feels that the scheduling better opponents he may latch on to some fop-flight recruits. \If you don't beef up the schedule,\ he says, \you won't get the best wrestlers as recruits. Sectional or state champs won't give you a second look unless you wrestle some top teams.\ Union's wrestling mentor remains cautious, however, in his efforts to provide quality mat competition for the Dutchmen. He cites the example of RPI,a wi,nrting squad up until this season while wrestling mediocre .tea.ms. This winter they have scheduled the likes of Hofstra (an Eastern 'wrest] ing power), Spring(ield, and .I.T., among others, and consequently sport a losing record. Everling would like eventually to build up to that same level of \ ion, but he wisely realizes that such improvements take time. He is not eager to see Union's wrestling \dynasty'~'. which seen 9-l, I 0-0, and 8-2 marks the last three seasons after years mediocrity, crumble like R.P.I.'s. The Union basketball team wi!I be idle this weekend, and the mid-season holiday from competition comes as an u n ant icipatcd blessing for D 1:1 t c h man c oa ch Chris Schr·nid and his outstanding sophomore Jim Tedisco. Tedisco was delighting Union fans Saturday with his uswal rHenu of acrobatic jump shots when, with 1:36 remaining, he crashed to the flour and did not get up. Immediate fears centered on a broken leg for the 5-8 backcourt ace b1:1t X-rays proved Negative and Tedisco esc aped with a sprained Mats, Mermen To Face Kings Point Tomorrow Varsity wrestling and swimming con test at Kings Point this Saturday highlight the weekend's sports activity. The indoor track team will also be in action, taking on Mohawk Valley Community College tonight at 7:30 P.M. in Memorial Fieldhouse. The Garnet grapplers are \hurting\ for this all-important contest against the Mariners, according to rookie coach Gerry Everling. Both wrestlers at 150, Jeff Knetzer and Lar.ry Bloom, are ~ out with injuries, and will look to part-time varsity man Bart Gale as their replacement. Kings Point's three top men are Bob Richards, Ray Rog~s. and John Hanscom. Richards pjpned Knetzer last wjnter, a}il~ Rogers, at 190, w o n t'l1 e C . W . P o s t Tournam,~nt earlier this year. Hanscom/ is a standout at 142. . In t,lf.ere three toughest matches ·this season, the Mariners,)ost to NYU, 19-14, beat Gettysburg, 26-14, and fell td powerhouse Hofstra 26-8, I . 1 Thl( Garnet are 3-1 so far ·~'this season., in add{tion to one tourn~Il1ent win. Union's victories came against Hobart, R.P.I., and Hartford. The loss was at the hands of Springfield. . The j-0-1 mermen will also travel down to Long Island Saturday. The Mariners will be looking to avenge last year's 53-51 loss to the Dutchmen. In that contest, the Garnet took first and third in last individual event, the breaststroke, to clinch the win. Concordiensis regrets it's error issues ago in confusing the name of Kevin Drayton, '7J Music Director of WRuc' for Kevin Drake. Th~ aggreived party hosts two hours of classical music every Sunday evening from midnight on. LUIGI'S RESTAURANT SPECIALIZING IN Italian American Food 1125 BARRETT ST. Schenectady Dl 6-974-4 Enjoy Sizzling Steaks and Chops Visit Our Cocktail Bor ankle. Since the Dutchmen ·do not p'lay again until Tuesday at Trinity, coach Schmid' is optimistic that his top scdrer wiU be back in the line~up and at close to full strength after the 10 day-rest. T edisco 's injury came while scoring his 31st point of the evening in Union's abortive attempt at an upset over Kings Point. The Dutchmen led by as much as five points in .the second half and' were leading the Mariners with 10 minutes remaining before a spurt lifted Kings Point to an 80-72 win. The loss was the tenth for Union this season against two wins. In addition to Tedisco, who is now averaging 26.9 a game, fine performances were turned in by 6-3 center Rit Gallucci who had 11 points and I 7 rebounds; capt. Jim ' Getman who scored his se~son's high of 12 points am! jli~ior Dave Shames who quiuterbacked the offense and scored seven' points and added six rebounds and five assists. The Union freshmen dropped their fourth decision in five starts 84-76 to the Kings Point yearlings in the preliminary game. Jim Bolz, Union's 6-5 freshman center led aii scorers with 17 points. Last night, the frosli dropped a 72-49 decision, to Albany State. ' . . . - Hoop- . Starts· I • ~ ' - PLAYER G FG' FGA % FT Tedisco 12 123 304 40 77 Galucci, 12 32 64 50 14 Shames 12 30 66 44 15 Eichinger 12 28 61 45 13 Getman 12 29 90 32 3 Pezzano 12 24 42 59 10 Goldberg 12 20 41 48 6 Fitzgerald 11 14 41 38 11 *Deluca 8 12 28 43 10 Others 12 24 65 36 14 FG FGA % FT UNION 336 802 41 173 Opponents 35 2 712 44 245 *Injured: out for the season Groups of: jeans ~uits Sportcoats Outerwear Slacks Flain.- ~hirts BPilt' FTA 110 34 23 13 9 19 13 17 15 33 FTA 285 344 % REB ASST PTS AVG 68 41 25 323 43 142 3 78 64 40 27 75 100 38 6 69 33 62 14 60 56 37 4 58 46 22 22 46 63 32 1 39 67 21 7 34 42 9 52 62 % REB AVG 60 545 45 844 71 591 49 J/2 OFF I Thurs. nile till 9 ,J l t l VOLUME, 99 NO, 35 Director of the Peace Corps Joseph H. Blatchford, It R4:1publicans on the occasion of their Lincoln Day Dinner. event is scheduled for Tuesday, February 17th, 7:30p.m. the Thruway Hyatt House on Washington Avenue in Alb and marks the 72nd annual such affair sponsored by Alllany County Republican Committee. ACCION Mr. Blatchford who before becoming Peace Corps Dire, at the age of 34, headed up a privately supported, non-prt organization called ACCION in Latin American for nine y1 A community development program designed to I slum-dwellers set up self-help enterprises, it is estimated nearly 300,000 persons have been helped by projects program has set in motion. \The new director of the federal agency has long been motivated with the objectiv helping people improve their way of life,\ according to Administration. Cl1anges Made In France rrip The Department of Modern Languages announced a number of changes in the 1970 Comprehensive Education in France program after the CDncordy went to press Thursday night. The pwgrarn will cost $1 ,200, not the $1,300 reported in Friday's Concordy. All thirty students wm live with families in the un.i'fersity center of Angers. The participants in the 1969 program were located in Arrgers, Bwsancon, and Caen. All interested students should see Professor Roberts (Humanities 21la) immediately. Preference will be given to those who will be juniors in the fall of 1970, but members of this year's freshman class will also be considered. Tile lnterfratern contest for. Winter entrance fee will be The judging for trophy will be awa are due in Student. Pictured above Theta.

