¥ .1? /I( \ Foum/ed at Union College 1877 ·. - VOLUME 100, NO. 1 SCHENECT~pY, NEW YORK iSEPT .. 23, 1970 PR!CE TWENTY CENTS \Dreams a jazz-rock group ·said to rival \Blood Sweat and Tears'',. will be giving a free concert here this Saturday night. ·\Dreams\ will conspire to the overthrow of the drab and routine in f-,ibrary Plaza at 7 p.m. If it rains, the concert will be in the Field House. Security Lacks Bring New Locks for Safety BY MARK URMAN John Kleinkauf, director of college security, has reported that several new security measures are being taken to prevent further damage to college and student property. Mr. Kleinkauf praised the administration for fulfilling its responsibility to strengthen the security of the campus but he concluded that · \the initial responsibility is th.e· students' - to keep the rooms locked: They can be of tremendous assistance if they take it upon themselves to do this.\ Dorm Squeeze Greets Frosh With R1chmond House unfinished; West still recovering from last year's occupants and Davidson and Fox getting ready for five man suites the men and women of the class of 1974 got their apologetic introduction to Union College. Last June Coach Art Lawrence moved from Richmond and renovation began. But a planning mixup and labor pains kept the building from completion. As of last Saturday furniture ahd plumbing were in ·but the kitchen units and security setup had not become operational. A tour of Richmond reveals several major changes. The big lounge in the center of the floor has been replaced by two smaller lounges at the end with new rooms taking up the space in the middle. pros and cons of restrictions versus open house. The seventeen gii-ls located in Allen House fared no better than their sisters across campus. Occupying the former residence of history professor Neal Allen, the mix of frosh and transfers were faced with an attempt at impr0visationai housing on the part of the college. Over the weekend the rooms were spray painted and surplus North College Furniture moved in. The lock system is just being finished now but nestled between Sigma Phi and Alpha Delta Phi one can be assured there will be no lapse in surveillance. West College, traditional home of higher living on campus, was bequeathed by the class of '73, a series of. informative and entertaining pictures, poster and grossfitti. Although the charming charicature of Snoopy and Lucy is gone 1 enough remained on the ravaged- walls to prod the administration into a witty poster announcing imminent repair. Fox and Davidson are in as good shape as ever, Fox winning the prize this year for earliest false alarm. In about seventeen cases five men are assigned to four man suites. Informal reports indicate that all is going well, some of :the five men groups wishing to make the arrangement permanent. Accordint to Mr. Paul Bryant, Assistant Dean of Students, no such arrangement will prevail throughout the year, though. As spaces become available occupancy will return to the normal four, until then those with four roomates will receive a rebate on their room rent. Maintenance seemed far behind as of today but the concensus in the administration was that things were now under control. Sitting directly in the front entrance is a Pinkerton security guard. From the hours of 12 to 8 on weekdays and 12 to 2 on weekends he will let you pass, otherwise with a warm smile and 1 a wave of his hand he will invite you to leave. Girls will have their final parietal vote in a couple ·of weeks. - An informal survey indicated that some restrictions might be Congressional Reform Is Goal of Campus Group voted for this term. The feeling The M~vement_ fo,r a ~ew ;was that since all other dq.nns Congress 1s a natiOnal coahtton would· be 0 en visitin wouldn't . of s_tudents and fac~lty mem?ers l?- . · · - - .JL · --·-·- -~ d'E:dreareti--·tu ~reversm-g- Amencan really be restncted and the g1rls .· . could settle in with a few hours war . pohcy . a_n_d reorder~ng daily of guaranteed peace and Amencan _1mont1es by electmg quiet. In a talk given yesterday men committed to the~e goals to afternoon Mrs. Sheila Beam of the Congr:ss of the Umted States. the Dean of Students Office The Umon College Ch~pter of acquainted the co~eds with the The Movement will be ·New Faculty concentrating its efforts on the Congressional race in Schenectady County. The The head of campus police stated that the most difficult problem facing his force is caused by local children, and it is in reaction to their vandalism that he is extending his security program. Mr. Kleinkauf said that during this past summer many boiler house and maintenance truck windows were smashed with rocks. Although no considerable Glestruction occurred in either dormitories or fraternity houses, it was reported that in the first floor lounge of the Social Sciences building, one of the paintings was damaged and several plants were uprooted. Fourteen Appointed to Teaching Staff · -Democratic nominee is Samuel S. Stratton, a powerful member of the House Armed Services Committee, who has been an ardent supporter of administration war efforts and unchalleng·ed military expenditures. Stratton has voted for ABM, SST and numerous other Pentagon sponsored bills. while opposing amendments to end the war and curtail militar~ spending. Opposing Stratton is Daniel E. Button Republican- Liberal incumbent, who has received the endorsement of The Movement for a New Congress; The National Committee for an ·Effective Congress, and other peace oriented interest groups. Mr. Kleinkauf observed that college patrofmen find it difficult to scatter and remove the children effectively. Therefore he \would like to solicit the cooperation of the students\; he believes that the mere presence of students on campus can deter much blatant vandalism. For the first time, two security cars (clearly marked) will patrol the perimeter and the interior of the campus, and Kleinkauf is hopeful that this too will discourage tresspassing on college grounds. Each car will be .equipped with a two-way police radio which will expedite communication and action. · · Finally, the college has spent between six and .. eight thousand dollars to install \panic hardware\· in Fox and Davidson houses as well as in the adjoining ' fraternities. Under this new system, the dormitories will be locked ·from midnight until eight a.m. each weekday and also during the entire weekend. Any resident of these dormitories will be able to unlock the doors to his wing (only) with his room key. Therefore, any intruder will be either discouraged or delayed in entering these houses. The appointment of five new members to the teaching faculty has been announced by l)r. Harold C. Martin. The five new faculty for 1970-71 will include Bruce B. Solnick, visiting associate profe.ssor of history; Thomas A. Galantowicz, assistant professor of electrical engineering; George H. Williams, assistant professor of electrical engineering; J. EdwardTornga, instructor of mathematics and Bentti 0. Hoiska, instructor of economics. Prof. Solnick, a specialist in Latin American history, is a graduate of New York University where he also received his doctorate. Galantowicz, a specialist in quantum electronics and microwave circuits, is a graduate of the . University of Detroit with a doctorate from Ohio State University where he was a member of the faculty last year. , Prof. Williams, a specialist in computer science, is a graduate of Union with a doctorate from Yale University. A native of Schenectady, he has been a teaching fellow at Yale. Mr. · Tm:nga, a specialist in approximation theory and analysis, is a graduate of Kalamazoo College and is completing work on his doctorate at Michigan State University. Hoiska,· a native of New Haven, Conn., is a graduate of Columbia University and is completing work on his doctorate. In addition six appointments to the humanities and social sciences fac11lty have been made. Mrs. Helen L. Horowitz has been named visiting assistant professor of history. Joseph D. Pen~ Jr., Charles H. Nygard, Peter M. Rutkoff, Veronica Beechey, and Mark J. Rubin, were named instructors. Mrs.· Horowitz, a graduate of Wellesley College has a master's degree and doctorate from Harvard University. Peno, a native of Jasper, Texas, · received his bachelor's and master's degrees from the University of Texas at Austin and is currently completing work \On. his doctorate at Michigan State University. · Nygard is a graduate of Beloit College with a master's degree from the University of Wisconsin. He is currently working on his Ph.D a~ New York University. · Rutkoff, a native of New York City, is a graduate of St. Lawrence University. He received his master's degree and is currently a doctoral candidate at the University of Pennsylvania. Miss Beechey, a native of Hastings, Sussex, England, will be at Union as a Woodrow Wilson Exchange Fellow. She is a doctoral candidate at Nuffielcl College of Oxford CONCORDIENSIS welcomes all freshmen and upperclassmen interested in working on the newspaper staff to attend a meeting to be held next Monday night, September 28, in the Geology Building, Room 202. No previous High School writing experience is necessary. CONCORDY has openings on the news, feature, sports, business, photography and layout staffs. Don't forget to stop at our booth at the Activities Exposition in the West College Dining Hall on Sunday night, September 27. University where she has been a tutor in sociology. Mr. Rubin is a graduate of Yale University. A specialist in films. he has been affiliated with the Massachusetts Institute of Technology Center for Advanced Visual Studies and has taught at Bard College. He is the producer and director of three films. Dr. Manfred Jonas, ·a member of the history department since 1963. . has been named to a five~year term as department chairman. Dr. Jonas succeeds Dr. Joseph Finkelstein who has served as department chairman for the past five years. R. Gordon Bingham, special assistant to President Martin, has assumed the post of director of the Comprehensive Education Program for the academic year 1970-71. Although the machinery which functioned during the strike last spring has ceased to operate, for many people the spirit of the strike still remains and must be constructively channeled in the weeks to come. The Movement for a New Congress. can effectively serve to coordinate the efforts of Union College students to help to reorder our national priorities. Interested students may speak with a representative at the Student Activities Office. Jonathan Pearson Ill Named , Alumni· Relations Director Jonathan Pearson Ill, Director of Admissions at Union for 20 years, has been named the college's new Director of Alumni Relations. To succeed Pearson as Admissions Director, Dr. Martin has named Jasper A.D. Shupe, formerly assistant director and member of U11ion's Chtss of 1968. \Both Pearson and I,\ the President said, \have confidence that, under Shupe's supervision, the strong. admissions program Union has had for many years will continue.\ In addition, President Martin hi,is named two new men to the admissions staff. Leroy 0. Moore, a 1970 graduate of Wesleyan, and Peter J. Logan, Dartmouth '69, were appointed assistants to Jasper Shupe. Moore, a native of Memphis, tennessee majored in psychology at Wesleyan, where he also assisted the director of admissions in recruiting minority students. Logan majored in history at Dartmouth and spent the past year doing graduatt:: work at Smith College.

PAGE 2 CONCORDIENSIS, SEPT. 23, 1970 Outlook It would be easier to blithely welcome Union's first coed class with the usual banal \into the breach once more\ type of stiff upper lip editorial so characteristic of t~is occasion in ot~er years and at other schools; but we won t waste words tellmg you to study or eat or whose advice to follow. . Instead we'd like to point out that this could be a time of intensive reevaluation at Union with regard to the basic curriculum, governance, and structure of the sch<;>ol. Union has reached a plateau in these areas, and the changes we propose, even if undertaken slowly, will be considered radical and perhaps revolutionary by some; but they sho~ld be at least seriously discussed by the entire college commumty. . . Last year a small group of students and faculty mvesttgated the possibility of establishing a free university unit here with the intent of one day making all of Union a place where students could come and go and study at their own pace. We heartily endo.rse this work and believe that it form~:~ the cornerstone for a higher level of education. There is something drastically wrong with education in America: It is outdated. The university system has become a place in which persons who are ill suited are forced to digest countless inputs of facts. The college has become for too rq,~ny \students\ a place to memorize and get good grades and beat the draft, but not to learn except incidentally. But just 'li,s morality cannot be legislated, knowledge can only be presented but not force-fed, The universities must stop giving out useless degrees to persons who have not really le~rned anything an~ instead prepare students to live together wtth others and their environment. Why not offer course credit (until credit is abolished) for encounter groups or workshops? Why not give a full year's credit (at least) for an experimental community which would simply try to work out rather than intellectualize the prGblems of persons interreacting? The outlook is unlimited if Union is willing to take the next logical step along the path to true higher education. We realize too that financial and societal roadblocks are present, and the process must be a slow, careful, well planned change; but it should begin immediately. Interested students should contact this newspaper. Take Three The new art course in film making is a welcome and long overdue addition to the fine arts department. Its great oversubscription however only points out the need for the course to be expanded and for more new courses in· the department. At the very least the course should b~ offered again along with second level and second and third level courses in the Winter and Spring terms respectively. Medium Well The Lectures and Concerts Committee has once again done a fine job in providing the culture-starved college and comtnu~ity with a diversified but uniformly excellent program of classical music and dance, and contemporary literary and social . comment. But rather than walk away angry after hearing about pollution or our mad world, put your bile to work for the Movement for a New Congress. We are forbidden from endorsing specific political parties or candidates at the risk of , losing our tax exempt status and therefore our ability to publish. But we heartily support the action of the MNC and hope that the Union College chapter will be able to contribute strongly to the movement. ~·oat Itt,.,.. ------------- ~}9'--------~-­ ::s~ .... l.~ ' 11 nnrnr ll~.~~ 95 bitn.&ia ~ CO',.,··& ~ZL~\ .. --.-..rAJf'l Published T u e s day and Friday during the School- year by the Student Body of Union College, Schenec- tady, N.Y. National Adver- tising Representative Nation a 1 Educational Advertising Service, Inc., College Publishers Repre- sentative, 360 Lexington Avenue, N.Y.C. Editorial Office, Old Gym, Union College Publication Office, The World Publica- tl on s, 771 State St., Schenectady, N.Y. 12307, 346-2356. Entered in the Schenectady Post Office as Second Class Mall... Matter Subscription 20 celts a copy. $6 a year delivered anywhere.· in the United States. Peter J. W eingold Editor-in-Chief William Ouzer ................. ·Managing Editor Lloyd Birns ................... · Business Manager Louis S. Snitkoff ............. · · . News Editor Daniel Schochet ............. · . · Features Editor William J. Holleran ...... · .. · · · · Sports Editor Jody Saslow .............. · · · · · ·Photography Editor Henry J. Fein ......... , ...... ·· Executive Editor Richard S. Kramer ........... · · · Contributing Editor Staff: Robert A. Levine, Doug Wong, M. Grossman, Mike Gottlieb, Peter Dickerman, Neil Green, Douglas Tosh, George Kaplan, Charles Long, Mark Shugoll, . Stu Moss, Dave Conrey, Doug Binder, Thomas Morante, Mike Messerole, Michael Hollander, Michael Rosenberg, R~;th Morton. Beyond Your Revolutionary Passion .. You Want to be a Campus Radical? BY ALAN COHEN The present senior class entered college one month before the 1967 march on the Pentagon - the first really important confrontation between the white middle class and its government over the issue of Vietnam. Since then. we've .tried to get McCarthy elected, marched some mote, protested Dow and military recruiters, picketed, inadvertently gotten Nixon elected, blocked traffic, sent in our draft cards and taken part in other futile acts of protest. Why futile? Because the war goes on. All the demonstrating may have relieved our consciences and, better, may be helping· to build up anti-war forces in Congress. But most anti .. war people are not political. They don't want to devote their lives to fighting an absurdity. Rather, the movement has always been an affirmation of life in a culture of death based on sacrificing the present lor the future; beautiful ce:rue.terieS.i justification through historical might (e.g. \we never lost a war\). The movement said that we wanted to live now. Failure complicated, changed and divided the movement with communes, political heads, revolutionaries, drug freaks and the Women's Strike for- Peace each going his own way. The culture .of· life beeame (or was forced to beeome) only a culture of mediocrity - a reaction to the culture of death. For example, refusal to serve in the army means you must spend your time in jail, or escape the FBI or go to medical school when you don't want to be a doctor. You can't live uidess you defend yourself against the overbearing establishment. The defenses include . the music, the rejection of symbols of authority, and the ever-present cure-all, drugs. Instead of understanding and beating the establishment, we establish temporary defenses which often complicate our OWll lives. We often stop thinking and act in the manner that others do. We reject our parents' materialism without understanding that . it was perhaps the materialistic security which now permits us to seek higher goals. We are weak in defending ourselves, yet we speak about the oncoming revolution. You members of the class of 1974 may have already been through what the present seniors did not experience until we reached college and had to worry about our futures, as well as the social issues. Many of you can probably defme your goals .at this time: Perhaps law school or business. Thus, your years at Union may be spent getting the high grades you wiiJ need to show the establishment and enjoying your young life. Others . may deny their hedonistic might want to avoid becoming a feelings and run around moral extremist who fotgets that challenging the system all the the.-e are two or more sides to way. A revolutionary may even every issue, that life is filled witb quit .college. pal'ado1!:eS and that :morality I would hate to discourage negates truths. These d.ays, anyone who has set his ideals and soCialists find .no good at all in will devote his fut.ure to his. capitalis~; w~tr critics filld only cause. But it Is urge~t to· at least evil,, and stupidity in people who bring up th.e concept of :self• support the war; advocates of knowledge. A b.-dding action racial equality ntust often man may not understand what support or reject the Black self~knowled,ge ean do for him; l Panthers - there is no in- think that the experience of past between. radicals (even pre-engineering One must come to terms with students) might help · tb'e the concepts of paradoxes and freshman. - parti<U truths .before deciding on Radical action, ~:Jocial 'reform, a course of morality. He must or scientific amorality all are deny ;tbsol\!.ltes if he· really wants usually controlled by an elite to first · understand himself. A corps of decision makers. beginning to . understanding Sometimes,. the individual cannot paradoxes and self is to separate agree with the majority or elite the idea of humanity from the decision, the course of action. soCial context. We first For instance, an anti ... war challenged the system, not ·only protester who has never been because it was evil or foolish, but arrested may not want to go because it jnsulted us as persons along with a decision to resist the because we were participating in police with force. The leaders the acts · by supporting the explain to you that you cannot institutions. run out on everyone else and Now we seek t\o truly besides, non-violence has failed, . understand out~~lves ~s people, tactics must change. ' the natute of our in~StinctQal Many intellectual activists needs our attitudes ·toward might feel that .. kno~~ng the death: love, fear, sex, etc. Indeed, issues belps determine the course if we find that we are naturally of action. But it goes mqch selfish beings,. fighting for deeper. Your life style may come equality and justice m!ly be t,mder attack by othets wno totally futile. consider themselves more Since no great thinker of the devoted reformists. You will have past has ever proven any ultimate to again defend yourself. A truth, you could become the first physics student may have to wise man. Or you may never decid.e if 1'-.. wants to make· learn a thing. Other radicals can n11clear weapons and a Dow help you. Abbie Hoffman, A.S. Chemical man will have to decide Neill, Herman Hesse and D.H. his own relation to napalm. Lawrence can tell you what they If you first understand have gone through. yourself, action becomes much This search for knowledge more fluid. Perhaps no man is places you right back in the wise, but some- have' come close classroom with the others who to being at peace with their are after the grades, their status, beliefs. This is not to say that and money. But you can now you must first establish a set of better accept those who have rights and wrongs. In fact, you never been moved to action and Humor. • • I've been away for a yeat, but my neighbors' stereos are still playing, and downstairs t?ey have one now (too). More receding hairlines have been · covered here than pulp magazine ads ever restored. And The Academic Register says color has fought its way out of the Arts Department; it comes in I 0 week doses to upper middle America: $5. an hour, $800. a term, with special discounts for past dilligent submission. Carpeting hides the truth in West College, and there is a vicious rumor that the food is better. The new 7 million dollar dating center nears complacence. There are new enticements in the library; no, I don't mean the virgin books. Cars still roam unfenced, attacking people lost in thought; thank God that there aren't too many. have never thought about despair or absurdity. But you'll learn more than them because _you'll incorporate what you learn into your being, not your notebook. You may even give an insight to one of your fellow students which will upset his structured mind. I don't deny or defend the possibility of an armed revolution along w-ith a restructuring of the system. But to maintain it, the people will have to also change their ideas. Even without considering revolution, learning about ourselves and helping· others do the same may be the activist's best course of action. . Tne essence of what I want to say may or may not have gotten across. If you understand everything, doubt yourself, because not everything I said ·makes sense. Self-knowledge may be incommunicable. Perhaps only action and frustration can lead to wisdom. Hopefully, this article is not an end in itself. Nusbaum's \ \OUTFITTERS TO MEN and YOUNG MEN\ MOHAWK MALL BALLTOWN RD. SCHENECTADY DOWNTOWN 447 STATE ST. .) ..

I? oming a that sides to witb days, all in only who att!S of often Black in• with es and on must A the first only l;>ut in the truly orally for be the imate first never A.S. D.H. they the who atus, riow have and earn ou'll into ents the a But will do to ten. .} Through The Bus WindoW - BY RAY KRISE JR. Riding on a Greyhound gives you plenty of time to think. Think about how you'd be there by !}OW if you'd been on a plane unless it were one of Mohawk's. Think about the oversized freshman -class, complete with chicks, coming into your school. Think about Who's Who and Where at UC Absettce!l from class · Absences, extended period Academic problems Activities Athletics and Intramurals Books and Supplies Check Cashing Counseling C<:>urse Change Cufl'icll'lwn Change Emergency Loan · Evening and Summer Courses Financial Aid · Food Service Graduation Requirements :L.D. Cards Off Campus Hom~ing Parking Part-time Work Personal Problems Placement · Religious Counsel Reserving College Facilities Selective Service Information Transcripts Transfer Credit fron:t · Other College Transfer to Other College Tutoring Services Withdrawal Notaries Public· ~Your instructor ~Dean of Students ~Your adviso1r, Dean of Students -'-cStudent Activities Office, Old Gym ..,.._Qym ~Bookstore ~College Bookstore, 13ursar -Counselor's Offic.e and registrar ~Your advisor ,_...Registrar's Office -.Student Aid Office, Old Gym Hall ~Special Programs ---.:student Aid Office, ·Old Gym Hall -West College Dining Hall -Your Advisor and registrar -Dean of Students -Asst. Dean of Students, Fox House ~Security, Lamqnt House ~St~dent Aid, Old. Gym Hall ~Dean of Students, Counselor's office ~Placement Office -Your Advisor -Registrar's Office, Administration Bldg; ~Dean ofStudents; Assistant Registrar ~Registrar's Office -Registrar's Office -Dean of Students ~Geology Bldg ~Dean of Students ----\library Old Gym Hall, Admin. Bldg. Mountebanks Do Pinter With ··Skilled S~·nsitivity . . orders, and each time being less BY L~NCE F~LDUCC?IWITZ questioned by the men. Finally, It . ts. unfatr . to jUdge a the dumbwaiter demands the produc~on. done m ~aste by the death of one man at the hands of same cntena·used t(l judge a play the other. · that. has had the leisure to Instead of romantic tortured achteve . p~rfection. \The killers;.- Pinter's gu~en are Dumbw~uter, the Mountebankes Laurel and Hardy characters, productton that gave ~n open two silly clowns who happen to dre11s rehearsal Sunday ~ght a_nd be murderers. Rather than the a performance exclw;tyely for exception, they are the rule. freshmen on _Monday rught, was The direction was spare and put together m !ess tha~ a week. unobtrusive, as time dictated, Even _under thts handtcap, the and the important force seemed play dtreC~!!d by drama Professor to be conveying the idea without Henry. ~tel mana~ed to C?nve,y theatrical embellishment. The the spmt and meamng. of Pmter s actor~ were more than work: . . . , competent, but the play demands . T~~ play ·~self deal~ w1th mans a symbiotic rhythm that takes an mabthty to ISo1ate hu~self ~rom intimate knowledge of your the co!lSequ~nces of. his actwns. partner's timing. This knowledge !~o .. htred kil~ers watt before _the demands long and strenuous . hit, atte~ptmg to pass the ttme rehearsal hours. m a seemmglY: no~mal way. A _ The presentation of \The bers~rk <tumbwatter keeps Dumbwaiter'' woUld be notable if s~ndmg d?wn food orders, ea~h only as a promise · of future time asking for more exottc proaucuons' quality. Conscie·ntiou,s Objectors r.,ay· Get Help from Rag . Hum~nist Conscientious Objection, a pamphlet instructing those who. w1sh to apply for C.O. status without having a traditional rel~~ious basis, states, \Establish a public record o.f your .beliefs by wr~tmg term papers, letters to the editor, and school newspaper artiCles .•. \ It adds, \ ..• use.teqns which are consistent with your being a 'religious' objector to 'wat in any form.\' For amplification of that statement, see a draft counselor on campus. To aid t~e student applying for C.O. status, this paper will print any and all articles that state the applicants conscientious objection to war. Anti-Vietnam war articles will not be printed because they are useless. Remem.ber,.\if you are conscientiously opposed to participate in the armed forces 3:t this time, you are a conscientious dbjector.'' You may apply for as many exemptions as you feel you can qualify fot, but apply as early as possible. Students who want to become draft counselors are invited to a meeting in Professor David Snider's office (balcony of Old Chapel) Thursday at 4:30. These already trained as draft counselors will he able to arrange hours when they will be available for counseling. Me~ and women who want to become draft counselors will learn when they can participate in a training session for new counselors. The Schenectady Peace Center, now open at 514 State Street, needs the assistance of trained counselors. Many of the persons who carried the counseling load at the Centet during the summer have now returned to school away from Schenectady. how many freshmen come to Union because, today, .it is a \safe\ school. Think about Buffalo, where you've just come from. Their freshmen had to put l.IP with .ten bomb threats the first day of ·class. Somebody slit a cop's throat. Somebody also maybe shot' a cop in the back of the head, but nobody knows for· sure. The school will probably· be closed ·within two weeks. think about -the friends you visited in Buffalo. Dana is four months pregnant and, like every mommy-to-be is kittenishly happy. She's looking for a job. Her husband, Sandy., has a job in an art supply store and was a Senior, but he just changed his major, so now he has two years of working eight hours a day in the art store, going to class, and ta.ldng care of a wife and baby to look forward to.· And on the apartment door of these two kids knocked two other kids, Tom and Tim. They were from Ohio and Georgia, respectively. They looked like Dennis Hopper and Frank Zappa. They had a problem - the FBI was after Tim's ass because he had refused -draft induction and had jumped bail. They had to get to Canada as soon as possible, but the border guards were stopping all freaks and demanding they show ten dollars per person for each day they said they'd stay in Canada. Tim and Toni had five dollars between them. · Tim .and Tom could well have been COP!!• who are pulling shit like this all the time, but all Sandy knew was they were two strung out cats ·who said they needed help. He gave them the name of a guy to see. Tim and Tom came back~ The guy had said they need to cut all their hair and tha:t~s all he said as his fear of cops outweighechis humanity. Dana and Sanay got the guys hairc1,1ts and shaves. They got girls to ride over the border with them so they could say they were just on a date. They gave them food which they really couldn't spare with absolutely no regrets; but no money, because they had none. Dana and Sandy smoke dope, drop acid, think Nixon is a consummate asshole, and screwed with lots of other people and each other before they ever thought of getting married. They are the antithesis of the kids the newspapers keep telling us are our big fat hope for the future. You rouse yourself from these reflections and start talking to the kid next to you on the bus. He's a British college student, in America for the summer as part of his learning process. His comments are interesting: America is so colossal, but you've never really noticed it; Americans as individuals are incredibly friendly, outgoing people; but as a country its personality is unbearably arrogant and pompous. He agrees with you that this is a critical period in this country's development. \Yeah we've got a lot of work to do,\ you say. \Who? You mean _you Americans?\ he asks. \No I mean us .kids. I'm not really in love with the idea of just being an American.\ \Yes it is a very prom.ising generation,\ he says.- BLITHER Auditions for the Northeastern New York Student Orchestra are being held Thursday, September 24 in the Basement of the Humanities Building. The time is 4:30p.m. Coffee House activities, featuring folk music will begin on September 25, at 8:30 p.m. in N ott Memorial. Admission is $1.00. CONCORDIENSIS, SEPT. 23, 1970 P\\GE 3 ----·-·--- .. -- __ ... OURN HIPPIES ATCHLEG.E \TODfr.Y! l'N G.tit..P_ w,...;.e:;;..,· ...-.:;; BY ROBERT A. LEVINE One of the first activities of this year's Freshman Orientation was the presentation of the Sidney Lumet film\Twelve Angry Men'\' in Memorial Chapel on Sunday evening. Considering the fact that this is the first .film to be shown as part of the orientation program, (at least in recent years) a twofold . question arises. Why was this film shown and did it accomplish what the orientation committee intended to accomplish by showing it? According to a letter sent to orientation counselors, it was to be used in conjunction with the presentation of the Dumbwaiter and the reading of one or more suggested literary works as material for group discussions along the line of a self-awareness, self-identity theme. ''Twelve Angry Men .· most certainly did emphasize this theme. The story line deals with . 12 members of a jury who must decide the guilt or innocence of an accused murderer and, in the process of interacting with each other, they expose their personalities and beliefs and are forced to examine them. Ironically, however, at the same time as • the film develops the theme of \self-awareness\ so well, it fails in almost every goal a film should fulfill. The film is one of those 1950's, socially conscious, morality plays which flooded T.V. programs such as ~layhouse 90 from the pens of Paddy Chayelfsky and his ~isciples. It tries so hard to relay its moral message, that it loses any areas of merit and wreaks of Sunday pulpit sermonizing. Sidney Lumet, the director, and Reginald Rose, the screenplay writer, apparently were not fimiliar with the word subtlety, and if so, unfortunately did not know. how to apply it. Roses' · screenplay is nothing short of embarrassing. The characters he created are stereotypes of the first order. There is \The good guy\ dressed in white, replete with a conscience and the capability of making other people find the consciences that they never owned or else lost in pursuing the business of life. A wizard with a wave 'of his magic wand couldn't have performed a greater miracle. Even Jesus would have had trouble in saving the souls of some of these men. Then there is the big mouther, know-it-all business-man and father who tried to make a man of his son (and lost him in the process) and would rather hurt people than Utter the words \I'm wrong\. FERRO PHARMACY 575 Nott Street Schenectady. N. y FR 7-0510 fOUNTAIN SfilVICE One block from Brownell Gate Other stereotypes are the precise, meticulous, logical stockbroker; the pliable, go-getting advertising man; the immigrant who is more knowledgeable about the meaning of the U.S. and democracy than the average American; the loudmouthed bigot; and the average Joe who derives the penultimate of pleasure from watching \Dub baseball game.\ Sidney Lumet's direction is exactly what such a screenplay deserves. It should suffice to say that in one scene he actually has 11 of the 12 men on the jury walk away from the conference table one by one, while the bigot stands ranting and raving about all the people from the other side of the track being all alike. While ll jurors stand solemnly and woodenly in a semi-circle in the foreground, the bigot breaks down almost in tears and walks to a chair in the corner as the others slowly turn and drift back to the table. MORAL: the bigot is now in the position he usually puts others into. He is the outcast. Even though the film does suffer irreparably from •the inept treatment, it is nevertheless fairly entertaining to watch. The situation is curiously interesting, although previous films such as the ,. Ox Bow Incident' treat the subject more realistically and contain a greater degree of competent workmanship. The main aspect that saves \Twelve · Angry Men\ from a lesser position in the annals of film history is most ·definitely the excellent actors that are in the film. Watching Henry Fonda, Lee J. Cobb, Ed Begley, E.G. Marshall, Martin Balsam, and Jack Warden, interact ts a fascinating experience. With extremely evocative portrayals, they bring life into tired, threadbare stereotypes, a feat that actors with lesser capabilities could never have done . At any rate, the film does bring out the question of self- awareness or self-identity quite bluntly. Henry Fonda, in questioning his own beliefs about the guilt of the accused murderer, persists (against the opinion of the other jurors) in finding out if the accused is guilty beyond <' reasonable doubt. Fonda IS willing to stand up against overwhelming odds to fight for what he believes. In the process he causes the other men to look into themselves and see what they too believe. Therefore .. Twelve Angry Men\ although not a well-made film, did accomplish the goal for which it was presented. DOUGLAS MENS SHOES TO . FIT EVERY SIZE & EVERY OCCASION $1 DISCOUNT ON SHOES WITH 1.0. 319 STATE STREET

PAGE 4 CONCORDIENSIS, SEPT. 23, 1970 Concordy Sports Gridders Demolish Worcester In Opener Worcester used the clock beautifully. driving 71 yards in the final 63 seconds for the score. BY MARK SHUGOLL '. Curtis Row.e and John Swanko. Coach George Flood has a we tth of running backs, and he shuffled them effectively in the opener. An inspired second half by the Garnet footbaH team on Saturday lent prorpise and optimism to the 1970 Union gridiron campaign. The Garnet machine clicked for 24 points in the half and rolled to a convincing 37-13 victory over lhe Engineers of Worcester Poly Tech, in the season opener for both teams. It was the Engineers, however, who got on the scoreboard first, capitalizing on a first period Garnet fumble. Worcester halfback Chuck Deschenes slammed over from the four-yard line to supply the visitors with an early 7-0 advantage. A Paul Ramsey interception and a 53-yatd pass from sophomore quarterback Mike Hogan to Mike Kumpf set up the Garnet's first score. Larry Sykes put the six points on the board when he sc9red from the 4 and sophomore Bobby Mitchell's conversion made it a 7-7 ball game. less than three minutes into the second quarter. The second half was all Union, as the Hogan to Kumpf combination put the Garnet · in front 20-13. The pair clicked on a 7-yard scoring play, the only tally of the third period. The Garnet rolled to a I 7- point final quarter as they turned 'three interceptions into a pair of touchdowns and a 25-yard Mitchell field goaL Joe Kirkup buUed over from the one for the first T.D. while Mitchell made a diving catch of a Dave Rearic toss to cap the scoring. Rearic and Hogan shared the signal calling duties for the Garnet. If Union is to improve on last year's disappointing 3-6 record; they will have to do it with a basically inexperienced squad. The Garnet opening lineup threw I 5 first year men at Worcester, and boasted but l5 lettermen. A fifty-yard pass and run play to another soph, John Swanko. gave Union a 13-7 lead. The visitors, however, walked off the field with a 13-13 halftime tie, when Steve Joseph hit James Buell with a 25-ya:rd scoring strike as time ran out. Juniors Gary Morris and Mike Kumpf return to anchor the offensive line, while the defensive front 4 is bolstered by the return of Rit Gallucci and Tom Duffy. . Senior co-captain Paul Ramsey teams with junior Pete Keller to provide experience in the secondary. Joining Hogan in the starting backfield were co-captain Larry Sykes, and a pair of sophomores, On Today's Scene WITH BILL HOLLERAN As Union men amiably greet the College's first co-ed class in its 175- year history this. week. the football team has already opened its fall campaign with a resounding 37-13 win over the \football team\ from , Worcester Tech. Don't get too excited. however, because Worcester is hardly one of the toughest small-college elevens in the Nation, the East, or even Massachusetts. In fact, they are not even the best team in Worcester as long as Holy Cross decides to stay put. But the Engineers are the Garnet's first victim of the 1970 campaign, just as they were last fall. George Flood, 39. begins his seventh season at the head coaching· helm for the Dutchmen this year, and will be looking to improve upon a career won-lost-tied mark of 21-24-3. Flood now ranks seventh among Union's all-time winning coaches. The Garnet gridders this year represent what is usually termed by sports afficionados to be a \question mark\. Last year a team of seasoned veterans rebounded from a fine 7-l season in 1968 to stumble to a dismal 3-6 record. The schedule was highlighted only by a (ho- hum) win over Worcester in the s·eason opener (36-8), a sweet enough victory over arch-rival RPI (23-16), and an unexpected upset over tough Alfred ( 10-7). This fall Flood is attempting to rebuild his squad, using 15 sophomores among his 22 starters. Those sophs played on Union's first winning freshmen team in quite some time, posting a creditable 3- 2 record last season. Many people tend to discount the Garnet's chances for·oa second winning season in 3 years. but this fall's crew could surprise. It will be remembered by the graybeards on campus that a similar bunch of umested second-year men yanked the Garnet from the deepest of football doldrums 4 years ago, posting a 4-4 mark in 1967 after witnessing 1966's 1-6-1 travesty as frosh. and following up with that outstanding 7-1 campaign in 1968. The Garnet have been playing intercollegiate football for 94 years with varying degrees of skill, and since then have built up several long- running and hotly-contested rivalries among their opponents. The Dutchmen first met the gridders of Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute in 1886, and since then have faced the Engineers of Troy in 68 contests. In that primeval opening match, RPI claimed a 7-4 triumph but to this day the Garnet discount the Engineer tally and in&ist on a 4- 0 final score. The Garnets have played more football games against Hamilton College, 74, than any of their other foes. In one of the most even rivalries anywhere in college football, the Dutchmen have won 30 contests and dropped 32. Twelve games ended in ties. Union and Rochester meet this autumn in the Kodak City for the 65th time in a series opened in 1889- 3 years after the RPI contest. The Dutchmen and the Ephmen of Wiiiiams College began playing the \college game\ in 1896, and since then have met 62 times. In the last 3 matches the Ephmen have sandwiched 35-0 an 34-zip routs around a thrilling I 7-7 Garnet upset in 1968. Hobart College faced the Garnet for the first time in the same year as Williams, 1896, but the squads have played six less games.'~ The Dutchmen have adopted a new look in their offensive formation, a wishbone T, to utilize this running power. It must be· pointed out, though, that Hogan and Rearic ·both appear to be more than capable passers as evidenced by Union's 208 yards in the air versus W.P.I. Uni:on's true football picture should become a lot clearer on Saturday when the Garnet venture north to tackle St. Lawrence. The Larries upended the Garnet one year ago with a · basically und~rclass lineup. CORRECTING THAT SLICE~ Sophomore running back John Swanko; slicing off tackle in Saturday's ·opening 37-13 grid roui of Worcester Te~h, is aboU;t to be met by two Engineer defenders after a .short gain. Swanko t{!ams with soph Curtis Rowe and senior Larry Sykes in the Garnet backfield. ~ ·:r~JEC.,~~. is right-on European by inspiration, The Alpine by Tarra is basically a shaped, single breasted sport jacket that's accented in front with patch flap pockets, and makes for a dramatic exit due to its new yoked back. with THE ALPINE •

