j .. \ . Founded at Union ·College 1877 'VQlume 101, Number 3 SCHENECTADY, NEW YORK OCTOBER 1, 197t PR!CE TWENTY CENTS Meditation is Topic Student-Senate Discusses Of Jaruis Speech ACS Election Procedure By Brian Havila.-.d By Barbara McDonald The convocation speaker on · Tuesday, October 5 will be Jerry Jarvis, director of the Students International Meditation Society (SIMS), a non-profit educational organization dedicated to the spreading of Transcendental Meditation as taught by Maharishi Mahesh Yogi. The lecture will be in Memorial Chapel, at 11:30 a.m. Jarvis' topic is the applicatien of Transcendental Meditation to education, called the \Science of Creative Intelligence (SCI).\ SCI may be defined as a systematic inquiry into the source of all knowledge and into the relationship between the field of knowledge and the power of knowledge in order to provide a unifying or \holistic\ basis for all branches of learning. This summer, an international symposium on SCI included such diverse personages as Buckminster Fuller, Major General Franklin M. Davis of the Army War College and our own Professors Arnold Dittleman and Edgar Curtis. Jarvis has previously lectured on SCI around the country and was invited to tel).ch it for a term at Stanford University. SCI is currently being taught .at UCLA, Yale and Colorado among others. A related course in ·creativity will be offered here in the Spring. Indicative of the widespread interest in techniques for expanding mental potential, SIMS · has become the fastest growing student movement in the United States, with over 70,000 having learned the technique. In the Albany-Schenectady area, over 600 have begun meditating in the 18 months since the beginning of the local chapters. Jarvis began his involvement with meditation in 1961 when he heard about the lecture in Los Angeles by Maharishi. .. I had always had hopes of someday meeting a rishi, which means holy sage ... When 1 found out that maharishi means great The Social Committee win hold its organizational meeting on Tuesday, October 5, at 7:30, in the Hale House Student lounge. All students interested in working on the committee are urged to attend. In addition, any student interested in ushering or taking tickets at Friday's Flying Burrito Brothers; concert should also report to the Tuesday meeting. Ushers and ticket-takers are admitted to concert, free, Tickets for the Bur~it() Brothers, Friday October 8, at 8:30 p.m. in Memorial Chapel go on sale Monday in the Student Activities Office. Tickets are $3 for Union students in advance, and $4 for others and at the door. IO's are required for purchase of $3 tickets, holy sage, it seemed worth looking into. I heard the introductory :lecture and started meditating and I have found that it is all he said it was.'' Later, in India, Jarvis studied with Maharishi to become a teacher of meditation, and in 1966 sl)me interested students began SIMS with Jarvis as director. TranScendental Meditation, although it originated in the ancient Indian Vedas, · is no longer connected with any particular religious practice. In fact, it involves no philosophy or system of beli·efs; rather, it is a technique of direct experience. Skeptics are said to make the best meditators since they experience the technique \innocently;\ that is, they don't try to make a mood or some other intellectual effort, both of which are unnecessary. The technique is a means of \turning the attention inward toward the subtler levels of a thought until the mind transcends the experience of the thought and arrives at the source of the thought.\ .Regular practice makes these deeper more powerful levels of the mind available for daily use. Students report that . it is easy and makes them happy as well. Recent physiol()gi~l studies have indicated that a meditator experiences profound relaxation of tensionand deep rest; the metabolic rate may drop as much· as 70% (Science Mar. 27, '70; The Lancet Apr. 18, '70). Benefrcial physiological effects similar to those found in Zen . monks of 20 years expenence have been found in novice meditators. Election is the key word to, describe the initial Student Senate meeting of the year, held Tuesday, September 28, for the Senate is now especially Seniors EligiJie For Fellowship Inquiries about the Danforth Fellowships, to be awarded in March 1972, are invited, according to Professor Byrl)n Nichols,. Social Science Buildhg, the campus representative. The Fellowships, offered by the Danforth Foundation of St. Louis, Missouri, are open to men and women who are seniors, who have serious interest in college teaching as a career, and who plan to study for a Ph.D. in a field common to the undergraduate college. Applicants may be single or married, must be under thirty yeaxs of age at the time of application, and may not have begun any graduate or professional study beyond the baccalaureate at the time of application. Danforth Fellows are eligible for four , years of financial assistance, with .. a maximum annual living stipend of $2,700 for single Fellows .and $2,950 for married Fellows, plus tuition and fees. Dependency allowances are available. Financial need is not a condition for consideration. Interested Seniors should contact Professor Nichols as as soon as possible. IRC Hopes -To Stress Plans of World Peace The International Relations Club is a student activity whose goal is to promote interest in the field of international relations among the student body. This year, the IRC, through seminars, workshops, speakers and films, will attempt to stress the importance of peace studies and world order to Union's academic community. . As fellow inhabitants of this planet, we can no longer sit idly by and watch man approach the brink of destruction. Peace education .is becoming a vitally important and · multi-faceted field. Man must now go beyond the goal of avoiding organized violence and aspire to understand the nature and causes of conflict, so he will be better able to prevent it. It is the duty of each individual to do what he can to bring about a change in the international environment, before that environment destroys us. The club will invite eminent scholars, diplomats, and government officials to iead discussions on such topics as Peace and World Order, Ecological Balance, Alternative Global Futures, Worldwide_ Economic Welfare (Overpopul- ation), and others. - Right now, the IRC is looking for dedicated persons who would like to work toward the goal of changing the international system. If you are interested and willing to work toward that toal, please contact Louis Furmanski, 346-9582, Hank Lambert, Beta Theta Pi. Membership in the club is open to all students, and there are no dues. Memorial Services for Walter C. Baker, member of the Board of Trustees, who died earlier this week, will be held on Monday, October 4 at 12 noon in Memorial Chapel. Baker graduated in the class of 1915, and served on the Board since 1932. Baker, who was responsible for the l'enovation of Hale House, served as Chairman of the Board of Trustees from 1941 to 1963. concerned with the upcoming elections on Monday, October 11, 1971. The balloting will be conducted through the Student Senate on a floor-by-floor basis and in the fraternity houses according to the following schedule: Ballots will be given to senators before 7 p.m. on Monday night. Senators will be on their floors or in their houses between 7 and ll:30 p.m. . All voting will end at 11:30 ' p.m. There will be four (4) different colored ballots; red, green, blue, and white. Each color will designate a different voting division. The divisions will be divided according to majors in the following way: Division 1: Arts majors, Classics majors, English majors, Modern Language majors, • Philosophy majors, and all Center I Interdepartmental majors. Division II: History majors, SociolQgy majors, Political Science majors, and. Economics majors. Division · DI: Biology majors, Chemistry majors, and Psychology majors. Division IV: Mathematics majors, Physics majors, Mechanical, Electrical, and Civil Engineering majors, and all interdivisional and interdepart- ~ental majors in Center II. The ballots will be passed out according t0 divisions. Each ballot will have four sections: the first is for the Divisional Representative~ the second is for the at-large representative to the All College Senate; the third is for the Senior class Associate Member on the Board of Trustees; and the fourth is for the Junior class Associate Member on tlie Board of Trustees. The All College Senate will be the chief legislative body on the college campus. Therefore, everyone is urged to participate. The other matters of business at the meeting pertained to the elections of committee members to various college committees. For students interested in applying for various positions, applications will be found in the Student Activities Office in Old Gym Hall. Petitions are going very well with at least 2 people running for every position so far, with only one or two exceptions. The next Senate meeting will be held on Tuesday, October 12, at 7 p.m. in SS 115. Outing Club Plans Year The Union College Outing Club held its first meeting of the academic year Wednesday afternoon in Fox House lounge. This meeting was. presided over by Bob Hinden, president of the club; Paul Connors, vice- president; and Steve Hayashi, secretary. Plans were made for the club's first outing, Saturday, October 2. This is to be a day devoted to rock climbing instruction at the club's cabin at Schoharie. Plans were made to leave at about 7:00a.m. Saturday morning. About forty people showed an interest in the initial excursion. Because of the unexpectedly large number of people, it was decided to secure a bus from the school for the trip. The club officers also informed the gathering of certain particulars of the club's regulations. There is no rigid membership; if you want to go on one of the trips you need only sign up for it. The club equipment can be used by anyone for trips not connected with the club, at a nominal cost. Trips planned for the fall, include canoeing, spelunking (caving), and day hikes. Petitions for Class Representatives and off- campus members of the Student Senate will be available in the Student Activities Office on Monday, October 4. Student Senatorial candidates need fifteen signatures from off-campus residents, Class Represen- atives need forty signatures from their class. I Class representatives are on the student committee on Committees and on the Discipline Committee. Closing dates for both petitions will be Friday, October 8, at 4:30 p.m. in Student Activities. Any questions? Call Dave Robbins, 371-0804. Cheerleaders Worki.ng Out This year marks the first official cheerleading try-outs for girls who wish to cheer during the basketball season. Last year, cheering was on a strictly voluntary basis for both the practices and the squad. Fortunately, there were enough participants to initiate cheerleading for bas.ketball games, and, with the support of the fans, it turned out to be a successful year - both in the team'S' record and in the acquisition of some confidence on the part of the cheerleaders. Last night was the first night of try outs for the new squad, and a surprising number of girls turned out: twelve girls for five positions. The squad will have eight members this year. Captain Barbara McDonald, '74, Co- Captain Cindi Adams, '72, Mrs. Barbara Scanlon, and Jill Manning are the judges of the try outs. Criteria for the judging will be control, coordination, creativity, and enthusiasm. Next week there will be two or three practices with tht- final selection being held on next Thursday, October 7.

. I Founded at llnion College 1877 Vc;_)lume 101, Number 3 SCHENECTADY, NEW YORK OCTOBER 1, 1971 PR~CE TWENTY CENTS Meditation is Topic Student-Senate Discusses Of Jarois Speech ACS Election Procedure By Brian Haviland By Barbara McDonald The convocation speaker on Tuesday, October 5 will be Jerry Jarvis, director of the Students International Meditation Society (SIMS), a 11on-profit educational organization dedicated to the spreading of Transcendental Meditation as taught by Maharishi Mahesh Yogi. The lecture wili be in Memorial Chapel, at 11:30 a.m. Jarvis' topic is the application of Transcendental Meditation to education, called the \Science of Creative Intelligence (SCI).\ SCI may be defined as a systematic inquiry into the source of all knowledge and into the relationship between the field of knowledge and the power of knowledge in order to provide a unifying or \holistic\ basis for all branches of learning. This summer, an internationa I symposium on SCI included such diverse personages as Buckminster Fuller, Major General Franklin M. Davis of the Army War College and our own Professors Arnold Dittleman and Edgar Curtis. Jarvis has previously lectured on SCI around the country and was invited to teach it for a term at Stanford University. SCI is currently being taught at UCLA, Yale and Colorado among others. A related course in creativity will be offered here in the Spring. Indicative of the widespread interest in techniques for expanding mental potential, SIMS has become the fastest growing student movement in the United States, with over 70,000 having learned the technique. In the Albany-Schenectady area. over 600 have begun meditating in the 18 months since the beginning of the local chapters. Jarvis began his involvement with meditation in 1961 when he heard about the lecture in Los Angeles by Maharishi. \! had always had hopes of someday meeting a rishi. which means holy sage ... When I found out that maharishi means great The Social Committee wUl hold its organizational meeting on Tuesday, October 5, at 7:30, in the Hale Hous~ Student lounge. All students interested in working on the committee are urged to attend. In addition, any student interested in ushering or taking tickets at Friday's Flying Burrito Brothers' concert should also report to the Tuesday meeting. Ushers and ticket-takers are admitted to concert, free. Tickets for the Burrito Brothers, Friday October 8, at 8:30 p.m. in Memorial Chapel go on sale Monday in the Student Activities Office. Tickets are $3 for Union students in advance, and $4 for others and at the door. ID's are required for purchase of$3 tickets. fuoly sage, it seemed worth looking into. I heard the introductory lecture and started meditating and I have found that it is all he said it was.\ Later, in India, Jarvis studied with Maharishi to become a teacher of meditation, and in 1966 some interested students began SIMS with Jarvis as director. Transcendental Meditation, although it originated in the ancient Indian Vedas, · is no longer connected with any particular religious practice. In fact, it involves no philosophy or system of beliefs; rather, it is a technique of direct experience. Skeptics are said to make the best meditators since they experience the technique \innocently;\ that is, they don't try to make a mood or some other intellectual effort, both of which are unnecessary. The technique is a means of \turning the attention inward toward the subtler levels of a thought until the mind transcends the experience of the thought and arrives at the source of the thought.\ Regular practice makes these deeper more powerful levels of the mind available for daily use. Students report that it is easy and makes them happy as well. Recent physiological studies have indicated that a meditator experiences profound relaxation of tension and deep rest; the metabolic rate may drop as much as 70% (Science Mar. 27, '70; The Lancet Apr. 18, '70). Beneficial physiological effects similar to those found in Zen monks of 20 years expenence have been found in novice meditators. Election is the key word to. describe the initial Student Senate meeting of the year, held Tuesday, September 28, for the Senate rs now especially Seniors Eligble For Fellowship Inquiries about the Danforth Fellowships, to be awarded in March 1972, are invited, accmding to Professor Byron Nichols, Social Science Buildi'lg, the campus representative. The Fellowships, offered by the Danforth Foundation of St. Louis, Missouri, are open to men and women who are seniors, who have serious interest in college teaching as a career, and who plan to study for a Ph.D. in a field common to the under graduate co \lege. Applicants may be single or married, must be under thirty years of age at the time of application, and may not have begun any graduate or professional study beyond the baccalaureate at the time of application. Danforth Fellows are eligible for four years of financial assistance, with a maximum annual living stipend of $2,700 for single Fellows and $2,950 for married Fellows, plus tuition and fees. Dependency allowances are available. Financial need is not a condition for consideration. Interested Seniors should contact Professor Nichols as as soon as possible. IRC Hopes To Stress Plans of World Peace The International Relations Club is a student activity whose goal is to promote interest in the field of international relations among the student body. This year. the IRC. through seminars, workshops. speakers and films. will attempt to stress the importance of peace studies and world order to Union's academic community. As fellow inhabitants of this planet. we can no longer sit idly by and watch man approach the brink of destruction. Peace education is becoming a vitally important and multi-faceted field. Man must now go beyond the goal of avoiding organized violence and aspire to understand the nature and causes of conflict, so he will be better able to prevent it. It is the duty of each individual to do what he can to bring a bout a change in the international environment, before that environment destroys us. The club scholars, government discussions will invite eminent diplomats, and officials to lead on such topics as Peace and World Order. Ecological Balance, Alternative Global Futures, Worldwide Economic Welfare (Overpopul- ation), and others. · Right now, the IRC is looking for dedicated persons who would like to work toward the goal of changing the international system. If you are interested and willing to work toward that toal. please contact Louis Furmanski. 346-9582. Hank Lambert, Beta Theta Pi. Membership in the club is open to all students, and there are no dues. ~e01orial Services for Walter C. Baker, member of the Board of Trustees, who died earlier this week, will be held on ~onday, October 4 at 12 noon in Memorial Chapel. Baker graduated in the class of 1915, and served on the Board since 1932. Baker, who was responsible for the renovation of Hale House, served as Chairman of the Board of Trustees from 1941 to 1963. concerned with the upcommg elections on Monday, October 11, 1971. The balloting will be conducted through the Student Senate on a floor-by-floor basis and in the fraternity houses according to the following schedule: Ballots will be given to senators before 7 p.m. on Monday night. Senators will be on their floors or in their houses between 7 and 11:30 p.m. All voting will end at II :30 ' p.m. There will be four (4) different colored ballots; red, green, blue, and white. Each color will designate a different voting division. The divisions will be divided according to majors in the following way: Division I: Arts majors, Classics majors, English majors, Modern Language majors. .. Philosophy majors, and all Center I Interdepartmental maJors. Division II: History majors, Sociology majors, Political Science majors, and Economics majors. Division ·III: Biology majors, Chemistry majors, and Psychology majors. Division IV: Mathematics majors. Physics majors, Mechanical, Electrical. and Civil Engineering majors, and all interdivisional and interdepart- ~ental majors in Center II. The ballots will be passed out according t·J divisions. Each ballot will have four sections: the first is for the Divisional Representative; the second is for the at-large representative to the All College Senate; the third is for the Senior class Associate Member on the Board of Trustees; and the fourth is for the Junior class Associate Member on the Board of Trustees. The All College Senate will be the chief legislative body on the college campus. Therefore, everyone is urged to participate. The other matters of business at the meeting pertained to the elections of committee members to various college committees. For students interested in applying for various positions, applications will be found in the Student Activities Office in Old Gym Hall. Petitions are going very well with at least 2 people running for every position so far, with only one or two exceptions. The next Senate meeting will be held on Tuesday, October 12, at 7 p.m. in SS 115. Outing Club Plans Year The Union College Outing Club held its first meeting of the academic year Wednesday afternoon in Fox House lounge. This meeting was presided over by Bob Hinden, president of the club; Paul Connors, vice- president; and Steve Hayashi, secretary. Plans were made for the club's first outing, Saturday, October 2. This is to be a day devoted to rock climbing instruction at the club's cabin at Schoharie. Plans were made to leave at about 7:00 a.m. Saturday morning. About forty people showed an interest in the initial excursion. Because of the unexpectedly large number of people, it was decided to secure a bus from the school for the trip. The club officers also informed the gathering of certain particulars of the club's regulations. There is no rigid membership; if you want to go on one of the trips you need only sign up for it. The club equipment can be used by anyone for trips not connected with the club, at a nominal cost. Trips planned for the fall, include canoeing, spelunking (caving), and day hikes. Petitions for Class Representatives and off. campus members of the Student Senate will be available in the Student Activities Office on Monday, October 4. Student Senatorial candidates need fifteen signatures from off-campus residents, Class Represen· atives need forty signatures from their class. Class representatives are on the student committee on Committees and on the Discipline Committee. Closing dates for both petitions will be Friday, October 8, at 4:30 p.m. in Student Activities. Any questions? Call Dave Robbins, 372-0804. Cheerleaders Working Out This vear marks the first official cheerleading try-outs for girls who wish to cheer during the basket ball season. Last year, cheering was on a strictly voluntary basis for both the practices and the squad. Fortunately, there were enough participants to initiate cheerlead i ng for basket ball games, and, with the support of the fans. it turned out to be a successful year ~- both in the team's record and in the acquisition of some confidence on the part of the cheerleaders. Last night was the first night of try outs for the new squad. and a surprising number of girls turned out: twelve girls for fi\e positions. The squad will ha\e eight members this )ear. Captain Barbara McDonald. '74, Co- Captain Cindi Adams. '72. Mrs. Barbara Scanlon, and Jill Manning are the judges of the tr:- outs. Criteria for the judging v..ill be control. coordination. creativity, and enthusiasm. Next week there will be t\\- o or three practices with thr final selection being held on next Thursday, October 7.

Page 2 CONCORDIENSIS, OCT. 1, 1971 Managing Editor Doug Wong Asst. Managing Editor Gail W. Goodman Editor-in-Chief Louis S. Snitkoff News Editor Patty Sipe .Sports Editor George S. Bain Photography Editors Jody Saslow Charles Long Contributing Editors William Holleran Mike Meserole AS!ioc. Photography Editor Dave Conrey Features Editor Matthew Swartz Business Manager Joseph Achenhaum National Advt. Manager Mark Shulman Subscriptions Manager Michael Hurley Published Tuesdl\YS and Fridays during the school year by the student body of Union College, Schenectady, N.Y., National Advertising Representative, National Educational Advertising Service, Inc., College Publishers Representative, 360 Lexington Ave., N.Y.C. Editorial office, Old Gym, Union College. Publication Office, The World Publications, 771 State Street, Schenectady, N.Y. 12307, 346-2356. Entered in the Schenectady post office as Second Class Mail Matter. Subscription 20 cents a copy:$8 a year delivered anywhere in the United States. to the editor: 346-1949 on my poster, not alpha just by chance, as i was at delta phi, whose number is 346- alpha delta phi, i picked up the 9688. concordy with your article on rip fifthly i have no desire to be offs. it seems like your article was. like \jerry b~~y\ b~cau.se pretty emotionally tied up with goodness kn?ws 1 hke haVIng tlts your televisions being ripped off, ~nd other things he ?oesn't have, so you decided to mouth off. well 1f you know what 1 mean. and i'm mouthing back. you read my just because i'm selling ripped- sign wrong and printed a very off, or ma~be forgot~en to b,e twisted story. returned ski boots, 1t doesn t first_ of all the henke boots mean that i think, as your article were abando~ed at my guest ~.ays, \ev~rything is alright\ ~ut house this winter by someone 1m certamly not about to gtve who stayed there and left without the boots away. returning the rented boots. i i also feel that huge corporate trucked on up to the nearest ski organizations like ski areas don't area to return them, but they r.eally_miss those ~oots, not with · didn't belong to that resort. not hft tickets at e1ght t~ twe!ve wanting to truck around to the dollars a day. but that 1s bes1de other five ski centers in the area the point, it's actually my own i kept them. ' opi~ion, believe it or ~ot. secondly, you read the price of· obvwusly though~ you. are 1'!-to the boots wrong. the sign said your morals and 1 am mto mme that the boots were twenty and th~t. is the only point made dollars not two hundred. that by wntmg back. well, also, you m~ral.ist you, is more than th~ maybe you should see ~ di~k cost of a brand new pair of daley could use you to wnte his rosemounts. for two hundred speeches, you're just the type he's dollars, henke's ought to come· looking for. . . . . . with a pair of legs. if the paper's ~hy not pnnt this like 1t IS printing is at fault and not your wntten. reporting, forgive me. peace third point - the car is at a. d. phi because i lived there this summer and was using it then. it was not ripped off as your article suggests, but purchased with my own working class cash. fourthly, i asked to be called at l77Yz JAY ST. SCHENECTADY becky j. anderson * * * * miss anderson is correct in asserting that the posted price of the purloined ski boots is indeed $20.00 and no{ $200.()(). My apologies: however, the actual price was never the issue. Also, my literary friends inform me that it was Abbie Hoffman and not Jerry Rubin who wrote Steal This Book. Mike ·Meserole Do You Want To Be A Connoisseur of Wine? Join the New Wine Oub At Moffett's Liquor Store (across the field on the corner of Van Vranken Ave.) LUIGI'S REST-AURANT SPECIALIZING IN Italian - American Food I 1\25 BARRETT ST. Schenectady Dl 6-9744 Enjoy Sizzling Steah ond Ch?ps Visit Our Cocktail Bar RUBBER STAMP By MATTHEW SWARTZ ears and forcing its snout toward Beatles. Logically, how could one the ground, The latter, if yau are expect friends of a very high Imagine, John Lennon's most at all familiar with the pressured seven year period recent attempt at \self\ McCartney family Ram album, under world scrutiny to simply preservation in the vanguard of rings true an obvious despise one another for reasons rock music, mixes contradiction, 1 h h · b · 1 · f ... 1 o n, avmg pu .lie y (m. a . o Jea <?usy\ al0ne? I cettainly personal vendettas, occassionally recent interview in Ramparts · can't. meaningful lyrics, and little magazine) denounced his past life · . The title piece weaves a tale of quality music. This may appear a style, is goofing on Paul fQr the world when there's no hate, little hard, but the constant t:xerting his prerogative te live a no greed, no hunger and the struggle of ideals is an extremely life withdrawn. Further, the song e~stence of a \brotherhood of painful .process; something that h d 1 ? 'b John seems to be trying to avoid ow o you s ~ep.. can possr· Iy man.\ D~utiful, but highly serve to substantiate this unlikely considering the present by rationalizing his past and apparent animosity with such condition of the world; it can confusing dialectic with Yoki phrases as: only be considered a dream (as Ono. those freaks was right when the title implies.} Wasn't it in his Immediately upon slicing the they said you was dead last album thnt he said: cellophane, one finds the record the one mistake you made was I once was the dream-weaver in an envelo.pe displaying the . in yQu bead. . bUt now l'mjust John lyrics cin:ularly about its (remember that \Paul is dead\ Sorry, John. I can't buy this as perimeter, a poster with John at scare of two falls past?) and: a chance error; you've been the piano during what appears to ,.. naughty and been fibbittg again. be a recording session, and The only thing you done was Things re!llly tail-spin from handy wallet sized pictur-e~ of yesterday here, fans. He joins the John holding a huge pig by its and since you've gone you're inimitable Johnny Cash in a To the Editor: I empathize with (Mr. Meserole) being ripped off. (His) article, however, presents a false image of my fraternity and its brothers. Alpha Delta Phi is not a den of thieves. I resent any implication that it is. Becky has h!!r own story to tell and it differs from yours. D. C. Nataro, '73 * * * * To the Editor: As a candidate for the office of Junior Associate Trustee, I thought it important that I outline my reasons for running, I feel that the need for student representation on the board is an important step in making the trustees more aware and responsive to student needs on the campus. As students are being asked to pay more and as the student body is enlarged, it is important that the student voice i.SStrengtbened and not lost. It is also important that college budget cuts be watched so that student services are maintained. Things such as counseling and medical care should at least be increased in proportion to the increase of students. Finally, I am very concerned that the college, in its effort to expand the graduate program, does not forsake the undergraduates. A professor who is given graduate or night-time courses is not as available to the under graduates and the student to faculty ratio will rise. This will take away from the small college closeness between the faculty and students. This is briefly how I feel on some issues of importance; it is my hope that students will ask me questions when they see me. Corne to my room (311 Fox), or call me at 346-9304. Peter B. Pach '73 just another day alluding to quest for trUth in gimme some Paul's somewhat dubious success truth, airs all tlte questions since going on hi& own, and the associated with adolescence in its early favo.rite Yesterday.·' so hard and how? Fortunately, However, the song jealous guy, he ends the album with musically the most beautiful cut something he seems to be fairly on· the album, deserves confident of, a love song to consideration here. Perhaps the Yoko, O(h) no, oh Yoko, spares implications are not quite as me the pain of seeing how far I clear as in how do you sleep? I'm could scale the disc into the Fox- a sucker for nostalgia, but he DaVidson ·parking lot. damn sure as hell isn't talking to Yoko. · • * • * I was dreaming of the past Dick, dull, I gave it a 36. I and my heart was beating fast . used to really dig dem Beatles, He goes on to describe losing uh, and figured dat John was, control of his emotions, his um, about toity six per cent of da developed feelings of insecurity group. He's reelly hoitin' for (also clear in the interview) and Georgie and dose other two guys. his apparent need to maintain What were dere names ag11irt, close ties with the rest of the Saul and Ratso? Nusbaum's \Outfitters to Men and Young Afen\· 447-451 STATE ST. ,SCHENECTADY Citizens of Earth By Bennet R. Adamson·F·Howard Every day the world shrinks more and more. Every day we have more reasons to identify with the rest of the world as co-citizens. This feeling may not be so strong in the U.S.A. because of its continental dimensions, but in Europe, where five hundred miles mean five different nations, language, monetary systems, and ethnic and cultural backgrounds, this idea of homo-nationalistic existence in a hetero-cultural and ethnic continent is becoming· more pronounced and evident. The feelings of hatred and animosity between the various nations that has been growing since infancy is subsiding, giving way to a feeling of cooperation the realization that alone we remain poor and obscure; together we rule and become a third power, matching, if not more resourceful, than the existing polarization. The creation of a third Pole: EUROPE, will urtdoubtably force the U.S.A. and U.S.S.R. into more pear.eful ·existence and will lessen the pressure that is being exerted by them. Union has openings for two student .and two faculty representatives in a seminar on Revolution in ihe Third World, a program of seven meetings to be taped for television during the current academic year. The programs Will be taped in the WMHT (Channel 17) studios, in nearby Rotterdam. Six other colleges in the Capital District will also participate in the seminar. Union Students who wish to apply for the program may obtain further details and application forms in Rooru 213, Social Sciences Building. The deadline for applying is Monda~ October 4. Each meeting will begin with a one-hour session recorded for television, followed by a buffet supper at the studios. During the televised hour, the speakers, Who will be faculty people, not usually members of the seminar, will present their topics, and the seminar participants and audience will have a chance to ask questions. For the seminar members, there will be an opportunity for further discussion with the speakers and among themselves at the supper that follows. A three-pole world is not by any means the most · idealistic• structure in which to live; the ideal is a one~government world in which all nations are equal, no one or group having more, or special powers. The ideal situation can only be achieved by re-defining and re-classifying . priorities, putting aside the petty nationalistic feelings and giving way to the collective and universal (US) instead of the selfish and ·restricted (I)~ This means a partial loss of the historic-nationalistic crutches. We feel that in the coming fifteen years, our concepts and frames of reference will be changed as well as the political geography of the Earth. We all should look forward to the time When this will be true and it is up to us to make it come true through our outlook and thinking in terms of 'Earth' not in terms of State or of a country, De internationalistic instead of nationalistic; let us be citizens of Earth with the U.N. Colors rather than British, American, · For each of its four representatives Union will pay the enrollment fee of $30, whic~ will cover the cost of the suppers.. ' Russian • ...... .

Page 2 CONCORDIENS/S, OCT. 1, 1971 <!tnurnr Editor-in-Chief Louis S. Snitkoff Managing Editor Doug Wong News Editor Patt} Sipe Features Editor Matthew Swartz Asst. Managing Editor Gail W. Goodman Sports Editor George S. ilain Business Manager Joseph Achenbaum Contributing Editors William Holleran Mike Meserole Phetography Editors National Advt. Manager Jody Saslo\'. Mark Shulman Charles Long . . SubscnpttOilS Manager Assoc. Photography Editor Michael Hurley Dave Conrey Published Tuesdays and hidays during the school year by the student body of Union College, Schenectady, ~.Y., National Advertising Representative, National Educational Advertising Service, Inc., College Publishers Representative, 360 Lexington Ave., N.Y.C. Editorial office, Old Gym, Union College. Publication Office, The World PublicatioRs, 771 State Street, Schenectady, N.Y. 12307, 346-2356. Entered in the Schenectady post office as Second Class Mail Matter. Subscription 20 cents a copy. $8 a year delivered anywhere in the URi ted States. to the editor: just hy chance, as i was at alpha delta phi, i picked up the concordy with your article on rip offs. it seems like your article was pretty emotionally tied up with your televisions being ripped off, so you decided to mouth off. well i'm mouthing back. you read my sign wrong and printed a very twisted story. first of all, the henke boots were abandoned at my guest house this winter by someone who stayed there and left without returning the rented boots. i trucked on up to the nearest ski area to return them, but they didn't belong to that resort. not wanting to truck around to the other five ski centers in the area, i kept them. secondly, you read the price of the boots wrong. the sign said that the boots were twenty dollars, not two hundred. that, you moralist you, is more than the cost of a brand new pair of rosemounts. for two hundred dollars, henke's ought to come with a pair of legs. if the paper's printing is at fault and not your reporting, forgive me. third point - the car is at a. d. phi because i lived there this summer and was using it then. it was not ripped off as your article suggests, but purchased with my own working class cash. fourthly, i asked to be called at Greeting CARDS ACE STATIONERY 1171/zJAY ST. SCHENECTADY 346-1949 on my poster, not alpha delta phi, whose number is 346- 9688. fifthly i have no desire to be like \jerry baby\ because goodness knows i like having tits and other things he doesn't have, if you know what i mean. and just because i'm selling ripped- off, or maybe forgotten to be returned ski boots, it doesn't mean that i think, as your article says, \everything is alright\ but i'm certainly not about to give the boots away. i also feel that huge corporate organizations like ski areas don't really miss those boots, not with lift tickets at eight to twelve dollars a day. but that is beside the point, it's actually my own opinion, believe it or not. obviously though, you are into your morals and i am into mine and that is the only point made by writing back. well, also, maybe you should see if dick daley could use you to write his speeches, you're just the type he's looking for. why not print this like it is written. peace becky j. anderson * * * * miss anderson is correct in asserting that the posted price of the purloined ski boots is indeed $20.00 and not $200.00. My apologies: howe{:er, the actual price was newr the issue. Also, my literary friends inform me that it was Abbie Hoffman and not Jerry Rubin who wrote Steal This Book. Mike Meserole Do You Want To Be A Connoisseur of Wine? Join the New Wine Club At Moffett's liquor Store (across the field on the corner of Van Vranken Ave.) LUIGI'S RESTAURANT SPECIALIZING IN Italian • American Food 1125 BARRETT ST. Schenectady Dl 6-.9744 Enjoy Sizzling Steoks ond Ch?ps Visit Our Cocktail Bar RUBBER STAMP By MATTHEW SWARTZ ears and forcing its snout toward the ground. The latter, if you are Imagine, John Lennon's most at all familiar with the recent attempt at \self\ McCartney family Ram album, preservation in the vanguard of rings true an 0 b vi 0 us rock music, mixes contradiction, John, having publicly (iH a . personal vendettas, occassionally recent interview in Ramparts · meaningful lyrics, and little magazine) denounced his past life · quality music. This may appear a style, is goofing on. Paul for little hard, but the constant exerting his prerogative to live a struggle of ideals is an extremely life withdrawn. Further, the song painful process; something that how do you sleep? can possibly John seems to be trying to avoid serve to substantiate this by rationalizing his past and apparent animosity with such confusing dialectic with Yoki phrases as: Ono. those freaks was right when Immediately upon slicing the they said you was dead cellophane, one finds the record the one mistake you made was in an envelope displaying the in you head. lyrics circularly about its (remember that \Paul is dead\ perimeter, a poster with JohH at scare of two falls past?) and: the piano during what appears to , be a recording session, and handy wallet sized pictures of John holding a huge pig by its To the Editor: I empathize with (Mr. Meserole) being ripped off. (His) article, however, presents a false image of my fraternity and its brothers. Alpha Delta Phi is not a den of thieves. I resent any implication that it is. Becky has her own story to tell and it differs from yours. D. C. Nataro, '73 * * * * To the Editor: The only thing you done was yesterday and since you've gone you're just another day alluding to Paul's somewhat dubious success since going on his own, and the early favorite Yesterday.·' However, the soBg jealous guy, musically the most beautiful cut oil the album, deserves consideration here. Perhaps the implications are not quite as clear as in how do you sleep? I'm a sucker for nostalgia, but he damn sure as hell isn't talking to Yoko. I was dreaming of the past and my heart was beating fast He goes on to describe losing control of his emotions, his developed feelings of insecurity (also clear in the interview) and his apparent need to maintain close ties with the rest of the Beatles. Logically, how could one expect friends of a very high pressured seven year period under world scrutiny to simply despise one another for reasons of .. jealousy\ alone? I certainly can't. The title piece weaves a tale of the world when there's no hate, no greed, no hunger and the existence of a \brotherhood of man.\ Beautiful, but highly unlikely considering the present conditioN of the world; it can only be considered a dream (as the title implies.) Wasn't it in his last album that he said: I once was the dream-weaver but now I'm just John Sorry, John. I can't buy this as a chance error; you've beeH naughty and been fibbing again. Things really taH~spin from here, fans. He Joms the inimitable Johnny Cash m a quest for truth in gimme some truth, airs all the questions associated with adolescence in its so 1!11rd and how? Fortunately, he ends the album with something he seems to be fairly confident of, a love song to Yoko, O{h) no, oh Yoko, spares me the pain of seeing how far I could scale the disc into the Fox- Davidson parking lot. \' * \' * Dick, duh, I gave it a 36. I used to really dig dem Beatles, uh, aHd figured dat John was, urn, about toity six per cent of da group. He's reelly hoitin' for Georgie and dose other two guys. What were dere names again, Saul and Ratso? As a candidate for the office of Junior Associate Trustee, I thought it important that I outline my reasons for running. I feel that the need for student representation on the board is an important step in making the trustees more aware and responsive to student needs on the campus. As students are being asked to pay more and as the student body is enlarged, it is important that the student voice is strengthened and not lost. Nusbaum's rrOutfitters to Men and Young ~en\ 447-451 STATE ST. SCHENECTADY It is also important that college budget cuts be watched so that student services are maintained. Things such as counseling and medical care should at least be increased in proportion to the increase of students. Citizens of Earth By Bennet R. Adamson-F-Howard Finally, I am very concerned that the college, in its effort to expand the graduate program, does not forsake the undergraduates. A professor who is given graduate or night-time courses is not as available to the under graduates and the student to faculty ratio will rise. This will take away from the small college closeness between the faculty and students. Every day the world shrinks more and more. Every day we have more reasons to identify with the rest of the world as co-citizens. This feeling may not be so strong in the U.S.A. because of its continental dimensions, but in Europe, where five hundred miles mean five different nations, language, monetary systems, and ethnic and cultural backgrounds, this idea of homo-nationalistic existence in a hetero-cultural and ethnic continent is becoming more This is briefly how I feel on some issues of importance; it is my hope that students will ask me questions when they see me. Come to my room (311 Fox), or call me at 346-9304. Peter B. Pach '73 pronounced and evident. The feelings of hatred and animosity between the various nations that has been growing since infancy is subsiding, giving way to a feeling of cooperation the realization that alone we remain poor and obscure, together we rule and become a third power, matching, if not more resourceful, than the existing polarization. The creation of a third Pole: EUROPE, will undoubtably force the U.S.A. and U.S.S.R. Union has openings for two student and two faculty representatives in a seminar on Revolution in the Third World, a program of seven meetings to be taped for television during the current academic year. The programs will be taped in the WMHT (Channel 17) studios, in nearby Rotterdam. Six other colleges in the Capital District will also participate in the seminar. Union Students who wish to apply for the program may obtain further details and application forms in Room 213, Social Sciences Building. The deadline for applying is Monda); October 4. Each meeting will begin with a one-hour session recorded for television, followed by a buffet supper at the studios. During the televised hour, the speakers, who will be faculty people, not usually members of the seminar, will present their topics, and the seminar participants and audience will have a chance to ask questions. For the seminar members, there will be an opportunity for further discussion with the speakers and among themselves at the supper that follows. For each of its four representatives Union will pay the enrollment fee of $30, which will cover the cost of the suppers. into more pea('eful existence and will lessen the pressure that is being exerted by them. A three-pole world is not by any means the most idealistic • structure in which to live; the ideal is a one-government world in which all nations are equal, no one or group having more, or special powers. The ideal situation can only be achieved by re-defining and re-classifying priorities, putting aside the petty nationalistic feelings and giving way to the collective and universal (US) instead of the selfish and ·restricted (I). This means a partial loss of the historic-nationalistic crutches. We feel that in the coming fifteen years, our concepts and frames of reference will be changed as well as the political geography of the Earth. We all should look forward to the time when this will be true and it is up to us to make it come true through our outlook and thinking in terms of 'Earth' not in terms of State or of a country. Be internationalistic instead of nationalistic; let us be citizens of Earth with the U.N. Colors rather than British, American, Russian ....... . I

\' -~ l i '· KETZ HOUSE (shown here). is one oftwo formerfaculty residences appropriated for general college use this year. PALMER HOUSE, located near the tenniscourts on Union Avenue ' . ' is now ·a women's dormitory. It had been occupied by Dean James Palmer of the Center for Science and Engineering, and his family. Ketz House is being used for administrative offices. Voting Labelled Impossible, Student RegistrationDifficult By Les Goldman Whether you realize it or not, by the time you read this article it will probably be impossible for you to vote in the New York State primary on June 14th. You can Vote in that primary only if you have registered before the end of August or on certain days in September and the early .part of October. Although the dates are different, the situation is probably the same for many out- of-state residents. This situation which seems rather strange on the surface actually becomes · unfair fot voters between the Voter Survey Results Fro,m ages of 18-21. They were given the vote during the early spring, and have had only about five months to register, while older voters have had since the last election. on this one .. The Administration has said that the states can decide where students may register. This will probably confuse the situation even more if students go to school in one state and their parents live in another. In New York it should be noted, that a student must register where his parents live. Lately, there has been some talk in Congress of some kind of national registration system, but 1972 being an election year, there is some question as to whether any action will take place. OP,e final point, since it is necessary in many cases to register where you parents live, you might expect that it would be easy to get absentee ballots. Indications during the summer seemed to show that it may not be that easy. There have been many reports of students running into all kinds of hassles when ! The . U. on Collegef away aU night. In addition, the Coffeehouse wdl present the Star- first 25 girls to show their Union Sp~ngled ~ashboard Band; ID's will get a free drink. Make· ; torught, Frtday at 8:30 p.m. plans to be there Adtnission is 50~~: for this jug \' * · * * band copcert and once again The Coffeehouse is looking for there will be the famous coffee new student talent. If you are and donuts FREE, in Nott interested in performing, please Memorial. contact Paul Delfin, 370..:0595, * * * * The College information blotters are available again this year in the Student Activities Office, free of ch&.rge. The blotters contain important campus phone numbers, as well as the varsity sports schedule for the entire year. * * *. * The Department of Biological Sciences annourtces two seminars in future weeks. Dr. Henry M. Butzel, of the Biology Department, will speak on \Mating Type Determination in Doublet . Paramecia\ on October 6, Tuesday, at 4:30p.m. in Bailey Hall, Room 312. On October 20; Dr. F. R. Galey, of the Sterling-Winthrop Research Institute, will discuss \Elasticity of Skeletal Muscle\ also at 4:30 in Bailey 312. On both occasions, refreshments will be served at 4:00p.m. * * * ... To AU Pre-Law Students: The following Law schools will have representatives available in the Political Science outer office on the specified days: Oct. 5 - Duke University Law School, 10:00 a.m; to 3:30 p.m. Oct. 12 - New York University School of Law, 9:00 a.m. to noon. Oct. 14- Georgetown Unversity Law School, 1:30 to 4:00p.m. Nov. II Boston University Law School, 9:00a.m. to 3:00p.m. * * * ... All students interested in spending winter term in Israel must attend a meeting on Monday, October 4 at 4:30 p.m. in SS 113. Anyone who is . interested and can not attend, please see Prof~ssor Derk, in the History Department. * * * * Jeff Alifanz, 370-0911, or Becky Grant, fourth floor North. The Eucharist (mass) will be celebrated on Sunday evenings at 7:30 p.m. in Old Chapel. * * * * . The first meeting of the National Ski Patrol will be held on Tuesday, October 5, at 4:30 p.m. in.,.SS liS. This is a very important meeting, and all members are requested to attend. All interested skiers are invited to attend. Any questions? See Ginny Bade, 301 North. * * * * The Idol will have its first meeting for all interested students Wednesday, October 6 at 6:45, in the Bronner House lounge ; (North End of North College). New students are especially welcome to this meeting. All persons who want to make submissions for the first · issue are welcome to do so at this time. Extra copies of last year's issues will be available. * * * * Transfers students should pick up copies of the 1975 Freshman record immediately in the Student Activities Office, Old Gym Hall. There is much information in the Record for transfers as well as for other students. If anyone who has not ordered a Freshman Record would like a copy, please come into the Student Activities Office as soon as possible. Results of the voting survey taken at registration were released Wednesday. The survey shows that it is doubtful that Union students will have a large effect upon elections in Schenectady. According to the survey, abo.ut three-quarters oJ those responding will r~gister in their home communities rather than here at Union. Approximately three-fifths of those responding to the questionnaire are now registered. If the difficulties concerning the dates of registration seem confusing, the problems involvin,g college students are considerable. Many small college towns could conceivably be run by the students i( they were allowed to register where they attend school. In Berkeley a combination of street people, students, and radicals have combined to elect three members of the City Council, joining a radical fourth, the mayor, who had been previously elected. One could visualize the same situations developing in the Boston area under the right circumstances. It can be argued, however, that the students have a right to govern the conditions under which they must live. Many of the decisions on issues that are of concern to students, such as the police, drug laws, ecology, housing, etc. are made on the local level. The Nixon Administration has already gotten itself off the hook they tried to get ballots. So if you Swing into Homecoming happened to be registered, it Weekend by starting early with might be a good idea to find out WRUC, Union Radio. On about the possibility of absentee Thursday night, October 7, the ballots. If you are not registered whole gang will be at the Corner and you wish to take advantage Tavern, 222 Front Street, of the voting law you should Schenectady, doing the first live check out the situation quickly remote braodcast of the year. The Spurlows, a professional music group, will appear in Memorial Chapel Saturday, October 2 at 8:00 pm/ Tickets are $1 and will be sold at the door. The group consists of 20 college-aged men and women along with a back-up orchestra. They have appeared at high schools and on college campuses across the country including a performance at the White House and a TV special for the Chrysler Corporation. The group is currently doing promotional work for Am~rican Motors. Presenting a diversified program, the group emphasizes how God has \done a new thing\ in their individual lives. before the opportunity The fun begins at 8:00p.m. Free disappears. drinks (your choice) will }?e given VOLUNTEERS The poll, answered by 1,215 students living outside Mary Gray, ~irector of the Schenectady showed that only Carver c.ommumty Day Care 257 would ~refer to register here , Cen~er, IS DESPERATELY if given the opportunity - which seeking th~ help of m~le st~dents they do not have under current to. work wtth twenty-fiVe children New York State law. (kmdergarten to. fifth grade) on a 374-8456 or see Mr. Bryant in Old Gym Hall. \' * * * Of all students surveyed in the ~oluntee~ basts. For further 18·21 age group, including 1 2 2 mformatton, call the Center at REFUGE, a drug information and rehabilitation center in Scotia, is planning a recreation program for teen-age students. The program is meant to supplement individual and group whose legal residence is in Schertectady; 785 have registered to vote while 550 have not. The Democratic Party was favored by roughly 3:1 over the Republicans but both majer parties fell short of the 629 checks for .. other\ as a indication of party preference. , The survey included 1,103 men and 224 women in the 18-21 age bracket. Responses· were abput the same from both men and women. FERRO Pharniacy 575 Nott StrHt Schenectady, N. Y. Fl 7..0510 fOUNTAIN SIIVICI One bl9dt· from ltownt~U Gate The Authorized :Robert Stigwood Company Complete Concert Presentation TICKETS AVAILABLE AT: DROME SOUND, ALBAN't/MOHAWK MALL, VAN CURLER MUSIC, ALilANY/SCH., MUSIC SHACK, TROY, PlACE THEATER, 11 A.M. to P.M. 2 SHOWS- 7 and 10 P.M. therapy sessions. Two volunteers are needed to help plan, purchase equipment al1d supervise the effort. It is hoped that pay can be offered after the program is launched. Details are available from Paul Fleer at 346-7946, or from Mr. Bryant in Old Gym . HalL The Spurlows appeared at U,nion last year and will once again be sponsored jointly by the Union Christian Fellowship and Schenectady Area Campus Life clubs. FILM HAPS PRESENTS ~- - i~ \THE BRIDE WORE BLACK\ Directed by Francois Truffaut STARRING JEANNE MOREAU \One of the years ten best\ -TheN. Y. Times Sat. & Suo. Oct. 2, 3, 7, 9, 1l $1.00 SS016 :: Peter Pause (~ ( ~­ ( ( '( (~ Restaurant <~ < (~ <~ (~ . -- (~ <~ 535 Nott Street ~ ~ ' ~~~~~·.&\\'~..:-..::\ ..:::-~ ...... ~

CON(;_ORDIENSIS, OCTOBER 1, 1971 Page 3 ·: The ~Ion College! away all night. In addition, the Coffeehouse Will present the Star- first 25 girls to show their Union Sp~ngled ~ashboard Band~ ID's will get a free drink. Make · tomg~t.. Fr:day at 8:30 p.m. plans to be there. AdmiSSion 1s 50cr for this jug * * * * band concert and once again The Coffeehouse is looking for there will be the famous coffee new student talent. If you are and donuts FREE, in Nott interested in performing, please Memorial. contact Paul Delfin, 370-0595, * * * * The College information blotters are available again this year in the Student Activities Office, free of charge. The blotters contain important campus phone numbers, as well as the varsity sports schedule for the entire year. * * * * Jeff Alifanz, 370-0911, or Becky Grant, fourth floor North. The Eucharist (mass) will be celebrated on Sunday evenings at 7:30p.m. in Old Chapel. * * * * KETZ HOUSE (shown here). is one of two former faculty residences appropriated for [Jenera/ college use this year. PALMER HOUSE, located near the tenniscourts on Union Avenue, · is now a women's dormitory. It had been occupied by Dean James Palmer of the Center for Science and Engineering, and his family. Ketz House is being used for administrative The Department of Biological Sciences announces two seminars in future weeks. Dr. Henry M. Butzel, of the Biology Department, will speak on \Mating Type Determination in Doublet Paramecia\ on October 6, Tuesday, at 4:30 p.m. in Bailey Hall, Room 312. The first meeting of the National Ski Patrol will be held on Tuesday, October 5, at 4:30 p.m. in··SS 115. This is a very important meeting, and all members are requested to attend. All interested skiers are invited to attend. Any questions? See Ginny Bade, 301 North. offices. * * * \' Voting Labelled Impossible, On October 20, Dr. F. R. Galey, of the Sterling-Winthrop Research Institute, will discuss \Elasticity of Skeletal Muscle\ also at 4:30 in Bailey 312. On both occasions, refreshments will be served at 4:00 p.m. The Idol will have its first meeting for all interested students Wednesday, October 6 at 6:45, in the Bronner House lounge (North End of North College). New students are especially welcome to this meeting. All persons who want to make submissions for the first issue are welcome to do so at this time. Extra copies of last year's issues will be available. Student Registration D ifficu It By Les Goldman Whether you realize it or not, by the time you read this article it will probably be impossible for you to vote in the New York State primary on June 14th. You can vote in that primary only if you have registered before the end of August or on certain days in September and the early part of October. Although the dates are different, the situation is probably the same for many out- of-state residents. This situation which seems rather strange on the surface actually becomes· unfair for voters between the Voter Survey Results From Results of the voting survey taken at registration were released Wednesday. The survey shows that it is doubtful that Union students will have a large effect upon elections in Schenectady. According to the survey, about three-quarters of those responding will register in their home communities rather than here at Union. Approximately three-fifths of those responding to the questionnaire are now registered. The poll, answered by I ,215 students living outside Schenectady, showed that only 257 would prefer to register here if given the opportunity - which they do not have under current New York State law. Of all students surveyed in the 18-21 age group, including 122 whose legal residence is in Schenectady, 785 have registered to vote while 550 have not. The Democratic Party was favored by roughly 3:1 over the Republicans but both major parties fell short of the 629 checks for \other\ as a indication of party preference. The survey included 1,103 men and 224 women in the 18-21 age bracket. Responses- were about the same from both men and women. FERRO Pharmacy 575 Nott Street Schenedady, N. Y. Fl 7..0510 FOUNtAIN SERVICE One block from Brownell Gate ages of 18-21. They were given the vote during the early spring, and have had only about five months to register, while older voters have had since the last election. If the difficulties concerning the dates of registration seem confusing, the problems involving college students are considerable. Many small college towns could conceivably be run by the students if they were allowed to register where they attend school. In Berkeley a combination of street people, students, and radicals have combined to elect three members of the City Council, joining a radical fourth, the mayor, who had been previously elected. One could visualize the same situations developing in the Boston area under the right circumstances. It can be argued, however, that the students have a right to govern the conditions under which they must live. Many of the decisions on issues that are of concern to students, such as the police, drug laws, ecology, housing, etc. are made on the local level. The Nixon Administration has already gotten itself off the hook on this one. The Administration has said that the states can decide where students rnay register. This will probably confuse the situation even more if students go to school in one state and their parents li-ve in another. In New York it should he noted, that a student must register where his parents live. Lately, there has been some talk in Congress of some kind of national registration system, but 1972 bein.g an election year, there is some question as to whether any action will take place. One final point, since it is necessary in many cases to register where you parents li-ve, you might expect that it would be easy to get absentee ballots. Indications during the summer seemed to show that it may not be that easy. !here have been many reports of students running into all kinds of hassles when * * * * To AD Pre-Law Students: The following Law schools will have representatives available in the Political Science outer office on the specified days: Oct. 5 - Duke University Law School, 10:00 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. Oct. 12 - New York University School of Law, 9:00 a.m. to noon. Oct. 14- Georgetown Unversity Law School, l :30 to 4:00 p.m. Nov. II Boston University Law School, 9:00a.m. to 3:00p.m. * * * * All students interested in spending winter term in Israel must attend a meeting on Monday, October 4 at 4:30 p.m. in SS 113. Anyone who is interested and can not attend, please see Professor Berk, in the History Department. \' * * * they tried to get ballots. So if you Swing into Homecoming happened to be registered, it Weekend by starting early with might be a good idea to find out WRUC, Union Radio. On about the possibility of absentee Thursday night, October 7, the ballots. If you are not registered whole gang will be at the Corner and you wish to take advantage Tavern, 222 Front Street, of the v<Jting law you should Schenectady, doing the first live check out the situation quickly remote braodcast of the year. before the opportunity The fun begins at 8:00p.m. Free disappears. drinks (your choice) will be given * * * * Transfers students should pick up copies of the 1975 Freshman record immediately in the Student Activities Office, Old Gym Hall. There is much information in the Record for transfers as well as for other students. If anyone who has not ordered a Freshman Record would like a copy, please come into the Student Activities Office as soon as possible. The Spurlows, a professional music group, will appear in Memorial Chapel Saturday, October 2 at 8:00 pm/ Tickets are $1 and will be sold at the door. VOLUNTEERS The group consists of 20 college-aged men and women along with a back-up orchestra. They have appeared at high schools and on college campuses across the country including a performance at the White House and a TV special for the Chrysler Corporation. The group is currently doing promotional work for American Motors. Presenting a diversified program, the group emphasizes how God has \done a new thing\ in their individual lives. Mary Gray, Director of the Carver Community Day Care Center, is DESPERATELY seeking the help of male students to work with twenty-five children (kindergarten to fifth grade) on a volunteer basis. For further information, call the Center at 374-8456 or see Mr. Bryant in Old Gym Hall. \' * * * REFUGE, a drug information and rehabilitation center in Scotia, is planning a recreation program for teen-age students. The program is meant to supplement individual and group JESUS CHRISJ. SUPERSTAR~ · therapy sessions. Two volunteers are needed to help plan, purchase equipment and supervise the effort. It is hoped that pay can be offered after the program is launched. Details are available from Paul Fleer at 346-7946, or from Mr. Bryant in Old Gym Hall. The Spurlows appeared at Union last year and will once again be sponsored jointly by the Union Christian Fellowship and Schenectady Area Campus Life clubs. FILM HAPS PRESENTS \THE BRIDE WORE BLACK\ Directed by Francois Truffaut STARRING JEANNE MOREAU \One of the years ten best\ -TheN. Y. Times Sat. & Sun. Oct. 2, 3, 7, 9, 11 SS 016 $1.00 The Authori:ed Roj)ert Stigwood Company Complete Concert' Presentation ~·~ (~ (~ (~ ~~~~<Q>~~Q.<'/~ 'SeatS' Reserved $6, $5, $4 PALACE THEATER OCTOBER 4th . TICKETS AVAILABLE AT: DROME SOUND, ALBANY/1~10HAWI( MALL, V·AN CURLER MUSIC. ALBANY/SCH., MUSIC SHACK, TR QY, PLACE THEATER, TA'fiTSMON.ll A.M. to 5:30P.M. 2 SHOWS-7 and 10 P.M. ~ <) C) ~ Peter Pause Restaurant ~ ~ ~ ~ ·~ ~ ~ ~ 535 Nott Street 1~ ~ ~ :7><4h~~~<Q>...t?'>0., ..... ~'<-'

Page4 CONCORDIENSIS, OCT. 1, 1971 Concordy Sports Saxons, Ranked 2nd, Host Unbeaten Garnet Gridders By Leapin attempts. Rearic hit four of five for 78 yards before leaving the game. of the Week\ on last week's Division IU football St~r Squad. Yesterday's N. Y. Times mentioned Westbrook as the hero of the 24-17 win. X -Country Expects To Produce .Best · Rec·ord In Years This Season Union will seek its second straight upset as it travels to Alfred on Saturday in a battle of unbeaten small-college football powers. Though the Dutchmen are ranked third in the New York State Sportswriters Association football poll, that fact alone is . , deceiving. The University ot Rochester is number one with 338 points in the poll. The Yellowjackets creamed Hamilton last week, 39-0, for their tenth straight win (including last year), and will visit Union in next week's Homecoming game. The Alfred Saxons are a distant second with 137 points, following its 34-12 win over RPI. . Union received only 28 points, and only 19 points separate the Garnet from the Larries of St. Lawrence, who are tenth after falling to Union, 24-17, last week. The Lambert Bowl is awarded annually to the best ECAC Division Ill football team. In that poll, Alfred is 'third with 51 points, 23 less than number one, Edinboro (Pa.) State. Union is fifth with 47 points. Rochester, a larger school, is in Diwsion ll. In Saturday's tilt, Union inust contain a super Saxon offense run by the great Jimmy Moretti, who threw four touchdown passes and ran for the other against RPI. His prime receiver is Charlie Young, and the best running back is a sophomore by the name of Bdzak. Additionally, the Alfred defense looks tough. Dave Rearic, Garnet One of Dave's passes was a screen to freshman star Rori Westbrook, who gained 52 yards on the play, leading to Union's first score. Westbrook picked up a total of 245 .yards on. a variety of pass receptions, punt and kickoff ret11rns, and rushes against the Larries, an.d was named \Rookie Mike Raab earned honorable mention on the Division III squad for his two interceptions and blocked extra point. Also, Ken Grey accounted for 20 tackles against St. Lawrence after knocking down 22 RPI Engineers the previous week. by Mark Mindel Things are happening fast on the Union College cross-country scene, and for the runners that's a good sign. Not that the fact that five-year coach Ron Coleman, the man Who shaped a winning team out of practically nothing, has left for a higher- paying disciplinary job is good;· ROOKIE OF THE. WEEK- Ron Westbrook, ECAC Division III Rookie ofthe Week, picks up part of his total of 242 yards gained in rushing, pass receiving; and kick returns last week. The fantastic freshman will appear in only two more home gi:zm~s, however, due to (he ruling in freshman eligibility by the New England Small Co/lege Athletic Conference. on the contrary, he will be missed. But his replacement, Trainer- Coach Chris Gentile, has itiherited a primarily Ron Coleman recruited team which promises, in the words of junior tri-captain Tim McCabe, and Coach Gentile, to be Union's best team in years . The first meet is this coming Tue~day, Oct. 5, at Williams, and should be merely a warm-up for the tough Hamilton and R.P.I. contes.ts later in the season. The home opener is set for noon on Homecoming weekend, right before the Rochester football game. Gone from last year's consistent, but .not outstan.ding, unit, is just one man - senior Paul Forbes. Still running are McCabe, sophomore Bob Nesbitt, who finished third among freshman runners in last year's New York State meet, and tri-captains Bryant Moeckel and Dave Rice. Sophomore Ed Wagner and senior Wayne Roe, also from last season's top seven, round out the squad. In a recent practice meet, McCabe, Rice, Kearney, and Smith all turned in a 30:40 clocking for a five-plus mile course, well below last year's ·timings at this time. Added to this strong returning contingent are four freshmen, all of whom could make the top five: John Kearney, Jim Smith, Jim Johnson, and Larry Herron. AU four· were either .sub 4:30 milers or sub 9:30 two-milers in high school competition last year. quarterback injured in the St. Lawrence win, underwent surgery for torn ligaments in his left knee in his home town of Buffalo this week. Fall Baseball At Union? It was erroneously reported in Tuesday's Concordy that Bob Mitchell, who replaced Rearic, completed 16 of 28 passes; actually, his 194 yards passing came .on 12 connections in 23 with Woody The beginning of October marks the end of the baseball season for 20 of the 24 major league teams and the start of those ridiculous playoffs for the league pennants. Luckily, however, there now appears to be little chance for a preposterous pre-playoff playoff in the NL West. Despite occasional· September suspense and the World Series SAFETY FIRST-· Junior safety Mike Raab returns one of his two intercepted passes last Saturday's 24~17 victory over St. Lawrence. Raab also blocked an extra point attempt, and for his defensive heroics was given Honorable Mention on this week's ECA C Division III squad. hoopla, most of us consider baseball to be a spring and summer pastime, and we lost interest after the Red Sox drop out of the pennant race in early August. Whoever heard of fall baseball? Is it anything like spring football practice? Much to the consternation of some of the Union baseball players, two of the Capital District's other colleges, Siena and Albany State, sponsor a full- fledged fall baseball season, playing doubleheaders now with each other and schools from Massachusetts and Pennsylvania. Perhaps since baseball coach Art Lawrence is now occupied as football line coach and since the bleachers cover the Alexander footballjbaseball field, there is little possibility for !fall baseball on the Union campus. But a local high school field or the diamond at Central Park could be used to sponsor workouts and scrimmages run by the senior members of the Garnet nine. Each spring, the baseball team gets little time to practice, competing with the weather outdoors and the !&crosse team in the Field House. There is no southern swing in March; And when they do play, they play too few games. Last spring the team played only 13 games, and on your official 1971-72 yellow athletic schedule blotter, only 16 games are listed for the 1972 season. Add an extra game a week, or play some schools in doubleheaders or home-and- home encounters, and Union could easily play 25 baseball games. There is a fall lacrosse league, while tennis and golf can be played around here until November. But baseball goes unnoticed by the Athletic Department. Still, we do have a World Series upon us this fall, after Pittsburgh and Baltimore win their playoffs. After that, don't you think the Orioles are a good bet to repeat as World Champions? Bikes Prospects for an informal Union bicycle club will be increased if enough people attend the. Mohawk-Hudson Wheel- men's monthly meeting, being held at 1 p.m. on Sunday at Central Park's Music Haven Bandstand. Ride your bicycle up Union St., past Brandywine and McClellan, turn right on Central Parkway or Wright Ave., and enter the main gate of Central Park. Keep to your left, past the tennis courts, zoo, and playground. Music Haven is just past the baseball field, beyond the playground. A 20 mile ride follows the meeting. ! .. ) I \ - th ha Pt at Be C• re di P1 a\ b~ fc Sl u \C . II p t1 c t ( - -

Page 4 CONCORDIENSJS, OCT. 1, 1971 Concordy Sports Saxons, Ranked 2nd, Host Unbeaten Garnet Gridders By Leapin attempts. Rearic hit four of five for 78 yards before leaving the game. of the Week\ on last week's Division III football Star Squad. Yesterday's N. Y. Times mentioned Westbrook as the hero of the 24-17 win. X-Country Expects To Pro~duce Best Rec~ord In Years This Season Union will seek its second straight upset as it travels to Alfred on Saturday in a battle of unbeaten small-college football power~. Though the Dutchmen arc ranked third in the Ne\\ York State Sportswriters Association football poll, that fact alone is ,. deceividg. The University ot Rochester is number one with 338 points in the poll. The Yellowjackets creamed Hamilton last week. 39-0, for their tenth straight win (including last year), and will visit Union in next week's Homecoming game. The Alfred Saxons are a distant second with 137 points, following its 34-12 win over RPI. Union received only 28 points, and only 19 points separate the Garnet from the Larries of St. Lawrence, who are tenth after falling to Union. 24-17, last week. The Lambert Bowl is awarded annually to the best EC AC Division Ill football team. In that poll. Alfred is third with 51 points, 23 less than number one, Edinboro (Pa.) State. Union is fifth with 47 points. Rochester, a larger school. is in Division II. In Saturday's tilt. Union must contain a super Sax.on offense run by the great Jimmy Moretti. who threw four touchdown passes and ran for the other against R Pl. His prime receiver is Charlie Young, and the best running back is a sophomore by the name of Ddzak. Additionally, the Alfred defense looks tough. Dave Rearic, Garnet One of Dave's passes was a screen to freshman star Ron Westbrook, who gained 52 yards oA the play, leading to Union's first score. Westbrook picked up a total of 245 yards on a variety of pass receptions, punt and kickoff returns, and ntshes against the Larries, and was named \Rookie Mike Raab earned honorable mention Ol'l the Division III squad for his two interceptions and blocked extra point. Also, Ken Grey accounted for 20 tackles against St. Lawrence after knocking down 22 RPI Engineers the previous week. by Mark Mindel Things are happening fast on the Union College cross-country scene, and for the runners that's a good sign. Not that the fact that five-year coach Ron Coleman, the man who shaped a winning team out of practically nothing, has left for a higher- paying disciplinary job is good; ROOKIE OF THE. WEEK- Ron Westbrook, ECAC Division III Rookie of the Week, picks up part of his total of 242 yards gained in rushing, pass receiving, and kick returns last week. The fantastic freshman will appear in only two more home games, however, due to the ruling in freshman eligibility by the New England Small College Athletic Conference. on the contra:ry, he will be missed. But his replacement, Trainer- Coach Chris Gentile, has inherited a primarily Ron Coleman recruited team which promises, in the words of junior tri-captain Tim McCabe, and Coach Gentile, to be Union's best team in years. The first meet is this coming Tuesday, Oct. 5, at Williams, and should be merely a warm-up for the tough Hamilton and R.P.I. contests later in the season. The home opener is set for noon on Homecoming weekend, right before the Rochester football game. Gone from last year's consistent, but not outstanding, unit, is just one man - senior Paul Forbes. Still running are McCabe, sophomore Bob Nesbitt, who finished third among freshman runners in last year's New York State meet, and tri-captains Bryant Moeckel and Dave Rice. Sophomore Ed Wagner and senior Wayne Roe, also from last season's top seven, round out the squad. In a recent practice meet, McCabe, Rice, Kearney, and Smith all turned in a 30:40 clocking for a five-plus mile course, well below last year~s timings at this time. Added to this strong returning contingent are four freshmen, all of whom could make the top five: John Kearney, Jim Smith, Jim 1 ohnson, and Larry Herron. All four were either sub 4:30 milers or sub 9:30 two-milers in high school competition last year. quarterback injured in the St. Lawrence win, underwent surgery for torn ligaments in his left knee in his home town of Buffalo this week. Fall Baseball At Union? It was erroneously reported in Tuesday's Concordy that Bob Mitchell. who replaced Rearic, completed 16 of 28 passes; actually, his 194 yards passing came on 12 connections in 23 with Woody The beginning of October marks the end of the baseball season for 20 of the 24 major league teams and the start of those ridiculous playoffs for the teague pennants. Luckily, however, there now appears to be little chance for a preposterous pre-playoff playoff in the NL West. Despite occasional· September suspense and the World Series SAFETY FIRST- Junior safety Mike Raab returns one of his two intercepted passes last Saturday's 24-17 victory over St. Lawrence. Raab also blocked an extra point attempt, and for his defensive heroics was given Honorable Mention on this week's ECA C Division III squad. hoopla, most of us consider baseball to be a spring and summer pastime, and we lost interest after the Red Sox drop out of the pennant race in early August. Whoever heard of fall baseball? Is it anything like spring football practice? Much to the consternation of some of the Union baseball players, two of the Capital District's other colleges, Siena and Albany State, sponsor a full- fledged fall baseball season, playing doubleheaders now with each other and schools from Massachusetts and Pennsylvania. Perhaps since baseball coach Art Lawrence is now occupied as football line coach and since the bleachers cover the Alexander football/ baseball field, there is little possibility for fall baseball on the Union campus. Dut a local high school field or the diamond at Central Park could be used to sponsor workouts and scrimmages run by the senior members of the Garnet nine. Each spring, the baseball team gets little time to practice, competing with the weather outdoors and the lacrosse team in the Field House. There is no southern swing in March. And when they do play, they play too few games. Last spring the team played only 13 games. and on your official 1971-72 yellow athletic schedule blotter, only 16 games are listed for the 1972 season. Add an extra game a week, or play some schools in doubleheaders or home-and- home encounters, and Union could easily play 25 baseball games. There is a fall lacrosse league, while tennis and golf can b~ played around here until November. But baseball goes unnoticed by the Athletic Department. Still, we do have a World Series upon us this fall, after Pittsburgh and Baltimore win their playoffs. After that, don't you think the Orioles are a good bet to repeat as World Champions? . . ... B·i k·es. ' ' Prospects for an informal Union bicycle club will be increased if enough people attend the Mohawk-Hudson Wheel- men's monthly meeting, being held at l p.m. on Sunday at Central Park's Music Haven Bandstand. Ride your bicycle up Union St., past Brandywine and McClellan, turn right on Central Parkway or Wright Ave., and enter the main gate of Central Park. Keep to your left, past the tennis courts, zoo, and playground. Music Haven is just past the baseball field, beyond the playground. A 20 mile ride follows the meeting. II ' ... ~ I l d ~o.' ... I ' - - tl h p a E ( . .

I I I. .' ) ' i Fourukd at · Union 'Colle,e 1877 .SCHENECTA~Y, NEW YORK OCTOBER 5, 1971 PR!CE TWENTY CENTS World Round-up; hieu Re-elected SAIGON -- Incumbent South Vietnamese President Nguyen Van Thieu won the election for a four-year term as president . of the country. Tbieu ran unopposed in an election that stirred much controversy among United States legislators. ·The exciting \Voices. of East. Harlem\ whose combination soul-blues-gospelperformances ' . - The election proceedings in Saigon were marred by protests, terrorism and increased enemy shelling of cities in the South, but yielded one of the highest turnouts in recent years. It is estimated that Thieu received over 95% of the votes, making his reelection nearly unanimous. However, a few voters indicated their anti-Thieu sentiments by burning or discarding their ballots. have captured New York City audiences the past year, will be at the College Friday. October 15 for an·8:30 p.m. show in Memorial Chapel. The performance is being sponsored by Union College's Black Alliance. Tickets are available through the Student Activities Office at Union. Despite enemy attempts to hinder the voting process, over four-fifths of eligible voters in South Vietnam visited the polls. Professors Due To Publish Essays in their Specialties Throughout the weekend, opposition groups urged the Vietnamese people to boycott the voting in protest of the one-man race. Among those groups protesting the nature of the elections were students, veterans, and anti-government Buddhist factions. In the city of Hue, 3,000 students, organized in protest, at~acked police with firebombs. It has been announced that three professors from Union have had essays published recently. Professors Gati and Sharlet have authored essays in \The Behavioral Revolution and Communist Studies\ published recently by The Free Press, a division of Macmillan Company. Professor Manfred Jonas is the author of an essay included in a book on modern American foreign policy published over the summer by the Ohio State University Press. Prof. Gati's essay is titled .. Soviet Blite Perceptions of Internat1onal Regions\ while Prof, Sharlet's section is \Law in the ~~Jitical Development of a Communist System.\ Pr.of. Gati, on sabbatical leave this year at the Research Institute on Commupist Affairs at Columbia University, is the founder and first dir~ctor of Union's Comparative Communist Studies Program. A native of Hungary, he received his undergraduate and doctoral degrees from the University of Indiana and has been a member of the Union faculty since 1963. Prof. Sharlet, who this year is heading the Comparative Communist Studies Program, The Social Com~ittee will hold its organizational meeting tonight, Tuesday, October S, at 7:30, in the Hale House Student lounge. AD students interested in working on .the committee are urged to attend. In addition, any student interested in ushering or taking tickets at Friday's Flying Burrito Brothers' com:ert should also report to the Tuesday meeting. Ushers and ticket~takers are admitted to concert, free. tickets for the Burrito Brothers, Friday, October 8, at 8:30 p.m. in Memorial Chapel are on sale in the Student Activities Office. Tickets are 53 for Union students in advance and 54 for othei'S and at the d<Jor. ID's are required for purchase of S3titkets. first came to Union in 1967. A American Foreign Policy\ is the graduate of Brandeis University, third in the Ohio State University he also received his doctorate at Press Series \Modern America.\ Indiana. ' A specialist in 20th century Both men are specialists in American history, Prof. Jon as is Soviet Studies with Professor the author of \Isolationism in Gati concentrating in foreign Ametica, 1935-1941,\ and policy while Prof. Sharlet is \American Foreign. Relations in concerned principally with the 20th Century,\ as well as politics and law. Doth have numerous articles; essays and · published numerous articles rurd · reVIews. essays . in !heir specialties in A graduate of the City College profess10nal JOUrnals. . of New york he earned his Prof. Jonas' contribution to . doctorate from Harvard the. 11 essay collection i.s \The University and joined the Union Uruted. States a~d !he Failure, o! faculty in 1963. He is currently Collective Secunty m the 1930 s. chairman of the college's history The book., \Twentieth-Cent~ry . department. Foundation Announces . F enowship Programs The . Ford Foundation has announced the continuation of the following pr.ograms for the 1972-73 year: Doctoral Fellowships for American Indian Students. Doctoral Fellowships for Black Students. Doctoral Fellowships for Mexican American and Puerto Rican Students. These fellowship programs are Student Funds, Aid Discussed for 'students who have not undertaken any graduate or professional study and who wish to pursue the Ph.D. and to enter cart(ers in higher education. Each program will support· full- time graduate study for up to five years contingent upon · the Fellow's satisfactory progress .toward the Ph.D. Eligible seniors at Union are encouraged to apply. Additional information, instructions, and application forms may be obtajned from the Ford Foundation, 320 East 43rd St., New York, New York, 10017. Applications must be complete by January 10, 1972. In Saigon, the evening before the election the Supreme Court required Thieu to dismiss three of his appointed pro:vince chiefs - for having been involved with irregularities in the lower house elections. Despite his overwhelming · election victory, this was interpreted as a political setback for Thieu. * * * * WASHINGTON, D.C. - The disarmament counterpart of the Paris Peace Talks - the strategic arms limitation talks (SALT) - have been in progress for two years. last week, Soviet Foreign Minister Andrei Gromyko, Petitions are now available in the Student Activities Offi~e for Class Representatives and offe campus senators to the student senate. Forty signatures are required from each class for the representative spot and fifteen signatures are required from off-campus students for the off-campus senator's spots. All completed petitions are due in the Student Activities Office no later than Friday, Oct. 8, 1971 at 4:30 p.m .. f;andidates wlll be notified as to the time of elections. Officials from the regional . office of the Department of Health, Education and Welfare will be at the College Wednesday (Oct. 6) to discuss future funding of federal student aid programs with representatives of Capital District colleges. HEW senior program officer for student financial aid Thomas Monahan and his assistant Charles Rainey will chair the day long discussions which are slated to begin at 9:30 a.m. Heavy Loss of Shade Trees Will Be Seminar Subject Programs to be discussed are National Defense Student Loans, • College Work-Study and Educational Opportunity grants. Student aid coordinators from all area colleges have been invited to attend. The seminar will be hosted by Joseph T. Maras of Union College. Possible methods ef countering the recent heavy loss of shade trees in the local area will be discussed at a meeting here on Friday, Oct. 8. Featured speakers at the seminar, set for 2 p.m. in Rm. 113 of the Psychology Building, will be Schenectady arborist Francis W. Larmore, New York State landscape architect George Roberts and Charles Zieba of the Union Coliege staff. Also participating will be Frederick Lape, president and director of the George Landis Arboretum and Stanley Smith, associate curator of botany at the New York State Museu{Jl. Topics on the program include a review .of recent shade tree losses, called the most serious in the past 25 years, consideration af species that can be planted to. replace the elm and the availability of trees from area nurseries. The :Seminar is free and open to the public. meeting with Secretary of State William Rogers publicized some results of the talks between the U. S. and Russia. The two signed two nuclear control agreements that provide for modernization of the \hot line\ between Washington and Moscow. The existing system of transatlantic cables is to be replaced by a sophisticated system of communications satellites. Secondly, common procedures will be adopted to prevent accidental triggering of nuclear war; each country must notify the other in the event ·Of unscheduled nuclear launchings. * * * * WASHINGTON- Two U.S. Senators individually announced plans to prevent deeper American involvement in Southeast Asia. Senator Stuart Symington (D-Missouri) will ask the Senate to cut nearly 60% from the budget allotted for the United States war effort in SE Asia. In addition, his plan would include a $200 million limit on war spending and would require four quarterly reports from the Ad.mini.stration describing American involvement in Laos. Senator Clifford Case (R-New Jersey) plans to introduce an amendment of the foreign aid bill to place an absolute ceiling of 100 military and 50 civilians on the number of Americans who could be · assigned to duty in Cambodia. Case acted on his alarm at reports .that the number of servicemen currently in Cambodia has been increased, and the Pentagon has already requested further increments. Continued on Page 3 AD students running for the AU-College Senate divisional seats should note the following. AD petitions will be checked with the Registrar's office. The elect-ions commission wiD check each candidate's petition and use the Registrar's latest Ust of majors as a guide for vaUdating candidates and petitions signers. If you are a candidate who has changed majors unoffieiaUy and have not notified the registrar, you should do so immediately in order that your petition be declared valid. Any candidate whose petition is declared invalid by the eJections commission will not have his or her name placed on the ballot. In other words - make sure you are qualified to run in your division and make sure only people in your division sign your petition. Any candidate with questions should caD Dave Robbins at 371-0804 •. Reminder: AU off-campus residents may vote in the Student Activities Office between 8:30 a.m. and 4:30 p.m. on Monday, October 11, 1971.

... Founded at Union College 1877 . . Volume tO:i, :Number 4 SCHENECTAD_Y, NEW YORK OCTOBER 5, 1971 PR:CE TWENTY CENTS World Round-up; Thieu Re-elected SAIGO~ ~ Incumbent South Vietnamese Pre~.ident \gu\l:n \'an fhieu won the election for a four-year term a~; pre~;Jdent of the country. Thieu ran unopposed in an election that stirred much controversy among United States legislators. The exciting \Voices of East Harlem\ whose combination soul-blues-gospelperf?rmances have captured New York City audiences the past year, will be at the College Friday, October 15 for an 8:30p.m. show in Memorial Chapel. The performance is being sponsored by Union College's Black Alliance. Tickets are The election proceedings in Saigon were marred hy protests. terrorism and increased enem~ shelling of cities in the South, but yielded one of the highest turnouts in recent years. It is estimated that Thieu received over 95% of the votes. making his reelection nearly unanimous. However, a few voters indicated their anti-Thieu sentiments by burning or discarding their ballots. available through the Student Activities Office at Union. Despite enemy attempts to hinder the voting process, over four-fifths of eligible voters in South Vietnam visited the polls. Professors Due To Publish Essays in their Specialties Throughout the weekend, opposftion groups urged the Vietnamese people to boycott the voting in protest of the one-man race. Among those groups protesting the nature of the elections were students, veterans, and anti-government Buddhist factions. In the city of Hue, 3,000 students, organized in protest, attacked police with firebombs. It has been announced that three professors from Union have had essays published recently. Professors Gati and Sharlet have authored essays in \The Behavioral Revolution and Communist Studies\ published recently by The Free Press, a division of Macmillan Company. Professor Manfred Jonas is the author of an essay included in a book on modern American foreign policy published over the summer by the Ohio State University Press. Prof. Gati's essay is titled \Soviet Blite Perceptions of Internat'ional Regions\ while Prof. Sharlet's section is \Law in the ~olitical Development of a Communist System.\ Prof. Gati, on sabbatical leave this year at the Research Institute on Communist Affairs at Columbia University, is the founder and first director of Union's Comparative Communist Studies Program. A native of Hungary, he received his undergraduate and doctoral degrees from the University of Indiana and has been a member of the Union faculty since 1963. Prof. Sharlet, who this year is heading the Comparative Communist Studies Program, The Social Committee will bold its organizational meeting tonight, Tuesday, October 5, at 7:30, in the Hale House Student lounge. AU students interested in working on the committee are urged to attend. In addition, any student interested in ushering or taking tickets at Friday's Flying Burrito Brothers' concert should also report to the Tuesday meeting. Ushers and tickeHakers are admitted to concert, free. Tickets for the Burrito Brothers, Friday, October 8, at 8:30 p.m. in Memorial Chapel are on sale in the Student Activities Office. Tickets are $3 for Union students in advance and $4 for others and at the door. ID's are required for purchase of $3 tickets. first came to Union in 196 7. A graduate of Brandeis University, he also received his doctorate at Indiana. Both men are specialists in Soviet Studies with Professor Gati concentrating in foreign policy while Prof. Sharlet is concerned principally with politics and law. Both have published numerous articles and essays in their specialties in professional journals. Prof. Jonas' contribution to the ll essay collection is \The United States and the Failure of Collective Security in the 1930's.\ The book, \Twentieth-Century American Foreign Policy\ is the third in the Ohio State University Press Series \Modern America.\ A specialist in 20th century American history, Prof. Jonas is the author of \Isolationism in America, 1935-1941 ,\ and \American Foreign Relations in the 20th Century,\ as well as numerous articles, essays and reviews. A graduate of the City College of New York, he earned his doctorate from Harvard University and joined the Union faculty in 1963. He is currently chairman of the college's history department. Foundation Announces Fellowship Programs The Ford Foundation has announced the continuation of the following programs for the 1972-73 year: Doctoral Fellowships for American Indian Students. Doctoral Fellowships for Black Students. Doctoral Fellowships for Mexican American and Puerto Rican Students. These fellowship programs are Student Funds, Aid Discussed for students who have not undertaken any graduate or professional study and who wish to pursue the Ph.D. and to enter car~ers in higher education. Each program will support full- time graduate study for up to five years contingent upon · the Fellow's satisfactory progress toward the Ph.D. Eligible seniors at Union are encouraged to apply. Additional information, instructions, and application forms may be obtained from the Ford Fouridation, 320 East 43rd St., New York, New York, 10017. Applications must be complete by January 10, 1972. In Saigon, the evening before the election the Supreme Court required Thieu to dismiss three of his appointed province chiefs for having been involved with irregularities in the lower house elections. Despite his overwhelming election victory, this was interpreted as a political setback for Thieu. * * * \' WASHINGTON, D.C. -- The disarmament counterpart of the Paris Peace Talks -- the strategic arms limitation talks (SALT) - have been in progress for two years. Last week, Soviet Foreign Minister Andrei Gromyko, Petitions are now available in the Student Activities Office for Class Representatives and offe campus senators to the student senate. Forty signatures are required from each class for the representative spot and fifteen signatures are required from off-campus students for the off-campus senator's spots. All completed petitions are due in the Student Activities Office no later than Friday, Oct. 8, 1971 at 4:30 p.m. Candidates wm be notified as to the time of elections. Officials from the regional office of the Department of Health, Education and Welfare will be at the College Wednesday (Oct. 6) to discuss future funding of federal student aid programs with representatives of Capital District colleges. HEW senior program officer for student financial aid Thomas Monahan and his assistant Charles Rainey will chair the day long discussions which are slated to begin at 9:30 a.m. Heaoy loss of Shade Trees Will Be Seminar Subject Programs to be discussed are National Defense Student Loans, • College Work-Study and Educational Opportunity grants. Student aid coordinators from all area colleges have been invited to attend. The seminar will be hosted by Joseph T. Maras of Union College . Possible methods of countering the recent heavy loss of shade trees in the local area will be discussed at a meeting here on Friday, Oct. 8. Featured speakers at the seminar, set for 2 p.m. in Rm. 113 of the Psychology Building, will be Schenectady arborist Francis W. Larmore, New York State landscape architect George Roberts and Charles Zieba of the Union College staff. Also participating will be Frederick Lape, president and director of the George Landis Arboretum and Stanley Smith, associate curator of botany at the New York State Museutn. Topics on the program include a review of recent shade tree losses, called the most serious in the past 25 years, consideration of species that can be planted to replace the elm and the availability of trees from area nurseries. The seminar is free and open to the public. meeting with Secretar~ of State William Rogers publici1ed .. orne results of the talh het\\een the U.S. and Russia. The two signed tv.o nuckar control agreements that provide for modernization of the \hot line\ between Washington and Moscow. The existing system of transatlantic cables is to be replaced by a sophisticated system of communications satellites. Secondly, common procedures will be adopted to prevent accidental triggering of nuclear war; each country must notify the other in the event of unscheduled nuclear launchings. * * * * WASHINGTON -- Two U. S. Senators individuall~ announced plans to prevent deeper American involvement in Southeast Asia. Senator Stuart Symington (D-Missouri) will ask the Senate to cut nearly 600( from the budget allotted for the United States war effort in SE Asia. In addition, his plan would include a $200 million limit on war spending and would require four quarterly reports from the Admin is tra ti on d escri bing American involvement in Laos. Senator Clifford Case (R-New Jersey) plans to introduce an amendment of the foreign aid bill to place an absolute ceiling of 100 military and 50 civilians on the number of Americans who could be assigned to duty in Cambodia. Case acted on his alarm at reports that the number of servicemen currently in Cambodia has been increased. and the Pentagon has already requested further increments. Continued on Page 3 AU students running for the AU-College Senate divisional seats should note the following. All petitions will be checked with the Registrar's office. The elections commission will check each candidate's petition and use the Registrar's latest list of majors as a guide for validating candidates and petitions signers. If you are a candidate who bas changed majors unofficially and have not notified the registrar, you should do so immediately in order that your petition be declared valid. Any candidate whose petition is declared invalid by the elections commission will not have his or her name placed on the ballot. In other words - make sure you are qualified to run in your division and make sure only people in your division sign your petition. Any candidate with questions should call Dave Robbins at 372-0804. Reminder: All off-campus residents may vote in the Student Activities Office between 8:30 a.m. and 4:30 p.m. on Monday, October 11,1971.

Page 2 CONCORDIENSIS, OCT. S, 1971 Managing Editor Doug Wong Asst. Managilig Editor Gail W. Goodman Editor-in-Chief Louis S. Snitkoff Sports Editor GeorgeS. Bain Photograph) Editors Jody Saslow C\ontri--~dng Editonl Charles Long William Holleran Assoc. PhOtography Editor Mike Meserole Dave Conrey Features Editor Matthew Swartz Business· Manager Joseph Achenbaun\. National Advt. Manager Mark Shulman Subscriptions Manager Michael Hurley STAFF: Don Kaplan, Rita Morandi, Barbara McDonald, Patty Sipe, Richard Kern, Gary (Leapin') Leiderman, Marty Berman, Mark .Mindel, Frank DeLucia, AI Reisch, Bob Johnson. Published Tuesdays and Fridays during the school year by the student. body of Union College, Schenectady, N.Y., National Advertising Representative, National Educational Advertising Service, Inc., College Publishers Representative, 360 Lexington Ave., N.Y.C. Editorial office, Old Gym, Union College. Publication Office, The World Publications, 771 State Street, Schenectady, N.Y. 12307, 346-2356. Entered in the Schenectady post office as Second Class Mail Matter. Subscription 20 cents a copy:$8 a year delivered anywhere in the United States. Fraternity Rush Homecoming weekend is the annual signal that the fraternity rush periods have already begun. With the campus fraternities reportedly in trouble due to decreasing pledges over the last few years, they can be expected to mount an all- out offensive to recruit new brothers this year. However, amid current trends toward individuality and a greater sense of independence, it seems doubtful that the old ''color- TV and beer on tap\ sales pitch will lure large pledge classes this year. Further, it is theorized that the advent of the new student center in Carnegie, scheduled for completion in 19??, will cause additional harm to fraternity membership drives. The reasoning behind this interpretation seems to be that the Campus Center will\afford the independent many of the social facilities fraternities can now boast. Although it can not be concluded that the fraternity man is a dying breed, it can be suggested that the need for the fraternity as a social force on campus is certainly decreasing. Drawing whatever inferences you choose, it seems that the decrease in fraternity enthusiasm has accompanied the recent and obvious trend away from the_ socially conservative \tradition\ in which Union was steeped for one hundred- seventy years. Could it be that those fraternities finding themselves in trouble are in that position because of a failure to keep in step with the rest of the campus? During this crucial period for campus fraternities, all freshmen are urged to consider the alternatives with an open mind. Talk to independents as well as brothers and discover the pros and cons of both aspects of college life. The fraternities ~re urged to be introspective and to consider; possib1e pathways for improvement. Those who see no need for fraternities on campus must make that decision· for themselves. But, it is up to the fraternities to make certain that the alternative to independence is available to all those who want it. L.S.S. To the Editor: As a graduate_ stud-ent interestl;!d in problems of the environment, I wish to bring to the Union community an observation that should be of . . ' . ;. mterest. The study of the larger environment of the biosphere -can be reduced in scale and simplified by choosing a · small¢r, more compact subsystem or model. ·If care is taken, observation of the model may yield some insight . into a portion of the behaviol\ of the large system. The classroom · full of students is one such mod~l­ enviranment. As with the biosphere, circulation of .. clean air\ in the environment of the classroom is required to rid it of certain natural by-products which 11re toxic in great concentrations. These may be 0 considered natural \pollution\ of the classroom since the subsystem has no natural system of renewal or purification - hence the need for ventilation. The model gains in real~world analogy by introducting smoking without restriction into the classroom environment. How similar it is to the observation of \air pollution\ without restriction in the biosphere. Furnaces are stoked, engines run everywhe;e and chemical waste fumes are ventilated into the · greater air without much regard to the fact that the air everyone breathes is polluted by those who impurify. How content is the driver knowing that his engine exhausts are being piped out safely rearward as he involuntarily breathes in the fumes of the traffic ahead!) So in the model, all breathe air slightly more impure because of the actions of a few. Those breathing the air may be grouped as follows: 1) heavy, habitual smokers: 2) occasional smokers: 3) non-smokers who tolerate and do not object to smoke: 4) non-smokers who object to and do not tolerate smoke because it is distracting or uncornf ortable: and 5) those non- smokers who react as in (4) because of ~physical ailments: allergies, asthma, ' bronchitis or.... the school is tn!lt of :faculty other chronic respiratory tenute. Budgetary Eestrictions diseases. I am. in group (5). have set a ceiling at 60% for As in. the largest environment, tenured faculty. This has caused a there are certain \costs\ and crisis among our Juni<;>r Faculty \benefits\ that accrue to the who are now compelled to work classroom ·enVironment should on -publications and,dissertations the current \freedom from to the ex.tent that they are forced restrictions on smoking\' be to close theil; offiee doors to revised. q_bvio~slY, the\costs and students. This is clearly to the .benefits. are grossly different . disadvantage of . both students among different of the five and faculty and l .propost: that groups. But just as we now the Board of Trustees sel:'iously realize that the privilege of public look into the situation with the pollution by autos and industry intent of making it more .must be revised for the public equitable. good, so also must the smoking Another problem which can ]:Je priv.ilege be scrutinized. · resolved ·only at the trustee level I propose that the All College is that of bud·get. Even under the Senate initiate a study aimed at new cQllege government the analysing the problem of president can overrule the All smoking in class and in public College Senate in bUdgetary campus facilities, such as dining matters leaying the Board with halls, .offices and the library, in fmal say. In these days of an objective manner. The results budgetary squeezes i.t is might be some needl!d impor.tant to see that the right restrictions on smoking, possibly priorities ~e followed, It would to include total hans in sQme be catastrophic to see any areas; establishment of non~ programs that directly affect a smokers lounges, study areas and student's · well-being, both eating areas; and a less academicaUyand otherwise, cut. hypocritical attitude towards In conclusion l would like to environmental problems in see a much better .rapport general in the smaller campus between the Board and the environment. - student body so that neither Meanwhile it would surely be · party will feel thai the other fs at appreciated if smokers would be its throat. Only through · open more considerate when asked to channels of communication can consider their neighbors. we expect to accomplish things Remember that in smoking (as in that con be accepted by the entire everything else) you can't do just college community. one thbtg. If anyone has questions about Larry Kintisch any aspect of my ideas for Union To the Editor: I would like to announce my candidacy for the Senior Class they can contact me at room, 352 Fox, or by phone at 370-0663. Joe Schwartz associate membership to the·.-------------,.., Board of Trustees and state my M cAT OAT G re~t~~e~~r r:~~~!:~tation is badly . . . . · · • . . · ~. .R E needed on the Board because too LSAT A' JG' s· B' many times the Trustees haven't · · · • . ·. · . . really had any contact with the students -since their own NAT'L. BD·S. ·graduations, and no longer know the needs or sentiments of an • ever-changing student body. Not * Pr.eparationtor testS required for only· do I hope to remedy this admission to graduate and profes- sional schoors through my presence on the * Six and twelve session courses Board, but I will always welcome * Small groups any fellow students' opinions on * Voluminous material for home study any issue and will gladJy pass prepared by experts in each field · these on to the Board. * Lesson schedule can be tailored to meet individual needs; A crucial problem now facing * Opportunity for review of past lessons via tape at the center The physician's hours, as posted in the Infirmary are: Summer Sessions Special Compact Courses Weekends - I ntersessions Monday: 9:00-11:00 A.M. Tuesday: 8:30-10:30 A.M. Gym clinic for women: 3:00- 4:00 P.M. Wednesday: 9:00-11:00 A.M. Thursday: 8:30-10:30 A.M; • Allergy injections: 3:00- 5:00P.M. Friday: 10:00 A.M. to noon STANLEY H. KAPLAN EDUCATIONAL c•NTERLT.o .. 1675 East 16th St....,l Brooklyn, N. Y .9'..,.. ~ (212) 236-5300 ~\i ~ (516) 538-4555 ~ DAYS. EVENINGS. WEEKENDS SINCE 1938, , Boston • Phila. • Washington • Detroit • Los Angeles • Miami The Tutoring School with the Nationwide ReputntitJII. SPRING SEMESTER-ISRAEL For Humanities Students Brandeis University I The Jacob Hiatt Institute Study centered in Jerusalem/February - June, 1972. Limited to 30 students. Juniors, Seniors and Grad students eligible . Four courses/History, Literature, Archaeology, Bible. Earn 16 credits. Knowledge Hebrew or Arabic preferred. of Cost $2000/Tuition, room, board, round-trip travel THE HIATT INSTITUTE Brandeis University Application deadline November lst. i Waltham, M*'ssa.:hu~etts 02154 . ' . . . . . ' . tl\.-; ' . . ' . ~~\ .. I l'it., 't' (, f ~ \'. ,' ; f I • .• •._ c • • -'' ~\ ' ~ ._ .. ' 'l ···~ ~); ) !.j P': ' ·. . .. Li ;- .;.; . ' ' \ ,,

:.t ~)~ .. ~\ ! \t~~ .. '\ \J r;v; \' '~ .; ' ··-J j ... ! ..-~ f 1>1( :: .. ( '. :. :~: ~ ' .>; ) 'i c : ,; ,~:~l ! J ' l· l i ' '.~ ~)l l } ::! .J , F~ 8 lJ \ !j ; l,if lY· ( ~ ), ',, t ' ' \ ;~ f:) ' l) '. n ; zq ., . ·~ \ ,;, <\ P1 ·. 1 ·I i ' ~ i·rl ., -~ . ·) ~ I \ ') ; ) ' ~~ \ '. ! ~') l .. t 1 \1 \ \ :i I f ·:~ :. Open Letter To CONCORDIENSIS, OCT. 5.,1971 Page3 New York's New Voters WRUC has rel'italized its staff a_.d started this yen with new enthil$iasn~. Two top members of .the stafi', Bob Smith and Art Forsdick, haye both resigned, Appointed to repiaee them are Peter Pach, wbo has assumed the position of Program Director, and Marsh GosneD, who will take over as Station Manager. Interest in the station has been high. Program Director Pach has been able to keep the station on the air \during all the scheduled hours, something that in past years has .been one of the station's failings. By emphasizing more music, and creativity in playing it, WRUC hopes to capture a better percentage of the student audience. Gosnell has been worldng on a new program for the station log which will help the Station Sales Department. .As you probably know; the activities of the next year will determine who is to be the .next President of the United States. On June 20, 1972, New York will hold its presidential primaries. However, unless New York's election law is changed, nearly two-thirds of this state's nearly one million newly enfranchised 18 to 21 year olds will Jose their votes in these primaries. l am writing to you at the start of this new school year in the hepe that both those of you who have regi!;tered, and those of you who have not, will joing with me to make !lUre that this does not happen. The law can and must be changed. June 20, 1972, you can specially enroll at your local election board on any business day between January 4, 1972 and May 20, 1972. Ifyou do this .• you will have a vote in June. These regulation's are unnecessarily complex and put an unreasonable burden upon you. Yet, if we cannot change the laws now, the young must climb the barriers they never made. Only when we have secured the vote fer all of our citizens, can we as a nation begin to address the many issues that menace the fabric of our society. I hope that in the months to come you will join me in an attempt to redeem this great hut troubled land. Sincerely, George McGovern Later in the fall WRUC-Skidmmore will start broadcasting 30 hours of air time a week from Skidmore. The staff of WR U C is sure this wiD broaden the air sound. AJso,.anyone interested in working with WRUC in any aspect of the station, please contact Peter Pach at the station in Old Gym HaD. Wanted coed to cook dinners for 3 upperclassmen; pay, $1.50 plus meal. Transportation from campus, inquire 346-2651 • Dope there's a flagpole! Smokers beware: Fed INSIDE the - As the law now stands, voters who wish to vote in next June's presidential primaries •must have been· registered and enrolled by October 2 - some nine months before the actual balloting. This is an unreasonable requirement that serves only to disenfranchise hundreds of thousands of interested voters. It is also one of the toughest registration laws in the country. For instance, in South Dakota - niy home state ~ voters can register and enroll up until t\Yo days before the primary election. For the rest of the fall, my New York headquarters in New York City and Aibany will serve as a clearing house and information center for this voter registration effort. ln New York, my headquarters are located at the Roger Smith Hotel, Suite 311, Lexington A venue and 47th Street, tel. {212) 832-1664. In Albany, McGovern offices are at 102 Carriage Circle in Williamsville, tel (716} 689..;9653. If we start now and wor-k hard, we will succeed in guaranteeing every 18/21 a vote in June. VITA IN THE NEWS If you share my concen1 for your voting rights and are interested in helping to pick the next President of the United States, I hope you will work with me and high school and college students throughout the state to form a concerted effort to change this Jaw. Only by writing to your Governor, state senators and assemblymen will the necessary measures be taken to insure that you will have a vote next June. If the registration deadline were extended to May 20, 1972 - 30 days before the primary - you would then have a fair opportunity to register. I am writing to you because I feel that the law, as it is .now written, clearly discriminates against the newly enfranchised. Your parents have had the opp.t>rtunity to register and enroll since January 4, 1971, with the knowledge that they could vote in June 1972. 18j21s, on the other hand, have only been enfranchised to vote in state and local elections since June 30 when the 26th amendment to the United States Constitution was finally ratified. This six month gap ~ .unfair. You have not been accorded equal treatment before the law. , During this past summer, my New York campaign has worked relentlessly to register first voters. like yourselves. In June we formed a non-partisan First Vote Committee that I agreed. to fund. In August, one office alone regi11tered over 10,000 young people in New York City. In spite of our efforts, however, less than 300,000 of the state's 950;000 l8j2ls are presently registered. What you should know about registration: 1. If you don't enroll in a political party when you register, you will not ha,ve a vote in June. That means that if you sign up as an \independent\ you can't vote in the presidential primaries. 2-. A college dormitory is not considered a legal residence for the purpose of voting in New York State. The residency question, however, is not a problem in New York because the primary will be held on June 20, 1972, when most schools are out of session. ConsequentlY., even if you have an off-campus residence, you shoUld register from your family address. . 3: If you will not be 18 before November 3 but will ·turn 18 between November 3, 1971, and COMMU~TY CALENDAR , ThuJ'Sday, October 7 8:00p.m. Dick G~gory at the RPI Gym. Tickets are $1.50. \Jl . Friday, October 8 8:00 p.m. African Cultural Event sponsored by the Inter-Cultural Center. The Fine Arts Center at Russell Sage College. Tickets are $1.00. 8:30 p.ni. The Flying Burrito Brothers in Concert at Memorial Chapel. Tickets are $3 in advance with Union ID, available at the Student Acti\Vities Office. (Tickets $4 at the door.) 9:00 p.m. Livingston Taylor and Carly Simon, in the SUNY Albany Gym. Tickets are $5. . '--... Saturday, October 9 8:00 p.m. The Bread and Puppet Theater. at the RPI Chapel and Cultural Center. Tickets are $2. Whatls VITA? VITA (Volunteer for International Technical Assistance) is a private, non- profit organization responding to requests for assistance in · ec.onomic and · social development. Established in 1960, VITA mobilizes and coordinates the work of.,. over 8,000 volunteer professionals. Volunteers represent 96 countries, over 2000 corporations, universities and other institutions. What Has VITA Done? VITA · provides the most appropriate know-how to specific .calls for assistance from individuals, organizations, small businesses and self-help development gro~ps. VITA has responded to over 23,000 requests. VITA meets people's needs by drawing on its talent bank of volunteer professionals, extensive. technical ftles and institutional contacts~ VITA Volunteers provide assistance by mail, by phone and by on-site counseling. What Does VITA Mean By \Technical Assistance\? Technical assistance means counseling requester organiza- tions in whatever way needed, and for as long ·as r necessary, to achieve the requester's project goals. In What Fields Does VITA O:tfer Technical Assistance? VITA offers expertise in many fields. Among them are agriculture, business develop- ment and management, community development, cooperatives, day care, education, engineering, health, housing and manpower training. Where Does VITA Operate? VITA operates throughout the world - in inner city and rural areas of the United States as well as in developing countries of WORLD NEWS ROUNDUP~ Asia, Africa and Latin America. VITA has offices in Boston, Houston, San Francisco, Schenectady and Washington, D. Continued from Page 1 PEKING Chinese Taiwan Republic, the agreement made no mention of the U. S.- Japan ddense treaty Which has withstood heavy Chinese attack in the past. * * * * C.', with counterparts in Ceylon, the Dominican Republic and the Philippines. Additional locations are under active consideration. Who Can Be A \Requester\ of VITA's Services? · In the United States requesters are individuals, organizations, small businesses and self-help development . groups, unable to afford technical assistance for projects related to economic and social development. Requesters come from rural communities or from inner-city areas. A typical requester might be a community action leader, a VISTA worker, head of an agricultural co-op, or a minority businessman. Why Is VITA In Operation? One of the most critical This Saturday, Oct. 9,- at 8:30 p.m., the Union College Coffeehouse will present Rat and Kevin Courcey. Admission is 50e, and coffee and donuts are - yes folks - FREE!! In the Old Chapel. * * * * There will be an important organizational meeting of the Big Brother and Big Sister Program in Social Sciences 016 on Thursday, October 7 at 4:30 p.m. All members and interested students are urged to attend. Plans will be made for Fall Term activities and Big Brother and Big_ Sister identification cards ·Will be distributed. Any questions, contact John Calender at Phi Gamma Delta and Marie Bednar at Bronner House. * * * * All fraternities sending invitations through the West College Mail Room must include the box number or it will be returned. * * * * There will be a meeting for Union College and S.C.C. Students interested in Activities of the Schenectady Peace Center on October 7, 7:30 p.m. at the Peace Center, 514 State St. The Peace Center is currently. engaged in Draft Counseling and problems facing many people in developing areas of· the United St~tes and abroad is obtaining skills and know-how required for their economic and social advancement. Capabie people in all parts of the world are willing to help with the assistance required. VITA's unique method matches people with need and i people with knowledge to give. This ~inkage increases the opportunity for success of the requester's\ project. For the volunteer it yields personal satisfaction plus an enlightening educational experience. . organizing local activities to , promote peace and social justice. · Students can register for this · Fall's Draft Counselor Training · Course at this time. The course aims to give trainees the basic knowledge of Selective Service ' Law necessary for them to begin counseling at the center or on their own with the assistance of the Center's counselor. The meet}ng will also be concerned with where the Peace Movement is going, and how S.C.C. and Union College Students can aid the movement - both on their respective campuses and in the Schenectady area. National plans for the Fall Offensive will be discussed. If you have any questions about the above please call the Peace Center at 374-3561. Thank you. * * * * The Idol will hold its first · entire staff meeting and all those interested Wednesday, October 6, at 6:45 in Bronner House (North End Co-op). Everyone is welcome, especially the new members of Union College. It is also asked that those interested in contributing for the first issue of this school year to bring your contributions to this meeting. Communists spelled out, in great detail, certain ground rules befor.e formal diplomatic relations could be established with the Japanese. The statement, compiled by representatives of Red China and Japan, stressed that relations should be established at \the earliest possible date.\ However, the agreement requires the Japanese to sever relations with Nationalist China, as well as to dissolve the peace treaty that has been signed between Japan and the Nationalist Chinese government. If anyone would like to have any one of last year's issues, ,----------------------------.copies will be available at this PARIS - The French Ambas- Two programs totaling $895,000 and both designed to help meeting. sad or to Red China was called resolve. problems of poverty in American inner-city and rural * * * * into Paris early Monday areas, were :revealed jointly by Lloyd J. Hughlett, President of Transfers: morning, and instructed to VITA (Volunteers for International Technical Assistance), ~ Please pick up your copies of remain there until further notice. headquartered on the Union campus, and Frank Carlucci, I the 1975 Freshman Record Fragmentary reports indicate Direc~or of the Oftice of Economic Opportunity (OEO); I immediately in the Student that there might be a power Washington. 1 Activities Office, Old Gym Hall. struggle underway on the One .program, financed by a $300,000 grant from OEO There is much information in the Communist mainland that could , Region HI, calls for VITA to serve as the primary source of Record for transfers as well as result in a postponement of technical assistance in community development projects for other students. President Nixon's scheduled visit concentrated in Pennsylvania, Deleware, Maryland, West Other Students: to China nex:t year. Among the Virginia, Virginia ancl the District of Columbia. This is the first If anyone who has not ordered reports. circulating is the \tim~ a government economic development program has relied so 1 a Freshman Record would like a announcement\ of·· the death ··or 1 ~- extensively ~n volunteers for professional counseling to projects copy, please come into the imminent death of Chinese leader concerned mth poverty and equal opportunity. I Student Activities Office as soon Mao Tse-Tung. a..-...._ __ ....._ ____________________ ..J.J as possible. Despite the stringent restrictions with regard to the

Page 4 CONCORDIENSIS, OCT. S, 1971 N ationaiNotes: OnThe'72 Campaign Trail Last ter~ (Spring Ter~ 1970:71) an error was made in Ute handling of the LINEBACKER cards for Professor Shanebrook•s · Fluid & thermal Systems course (E33), thus invalidating· tne evaluation for both the recitation and lab secti()ns which appeared in LINEBACKER. The cards have been corrected and repunched. The following are the correct results: The predominant story in around the fact that thts school breath the $3.3 billion being national news this week year, for the first time, urban spent on space research in a concerned the 1972 Presidential school districts outside of the nation that spends $17 billion ... campaign. The question of just confines of the South are being five tirnes as much .. for tobacco who the Democratic candidate faced with this question. The . products and cosmetics.\ will be became even more issue is rapidly becoming a undecided. political as well as a social one in * * * * In San Francisco the first these areas. Senator Muskie was preparations for the . upcoming faced with the question of Grand Junction, Colorado • primary were put into motion a whether or not he would support Mr. W.L. Wilson of Grand full eight months in advance of busing in the San Franciscan Junction Colorado went out to the scheduled date in May. school system. He answered. that dig some holes for fence posts. In Senator Edmund Muskie of he had a \distaste\ for busing, the process of his diggings he Maine announced a staff of four thus appeasing the public, but he found tailings, a mound of more or less volunteer staffers hastened to add that he did not . radioactive sand. Upon and five paid employees, putting in any way support the stand on investigation, he found that there him far ahead of his opposition busing taken by President Nixon. are more than just one of these in this category. The closest Nixon's stand included asking mounds dotting the countryside anyone has come to having a Congress to prohibit the use of around Grand Junction in the base anything like this in federal funds to acquire buses. vicinity of an old uranium ore California is the office set up by The busing question has risen processing mill. Senator George McGovern of to the surface in Tennessee, The Atomic Energy South Dakota. McGovern has Alabama, North Carolina, Commission has commented that three paid employees. Birch Arkansas and Michigan. There is it is highly unlikely that enough Bayh, senator from Indiana has some speculation that the focus . of these tailings could merge to also officially opened a campaign may shift from these states to become in any way hazardous to office in San Francisco. others, or that it may just humans or other forms of life. * * \' * The Environment - Co·rporadon executives .1. 2' 3. 4 ~ 5. 6. 7· 8~ 9, 10 I 11. 121 13~ 14'; 15. 16. f7, 1S• 19, 201 Early predictions on the part mushroom. In any case it is of various Californian certain that the busing question Democrats put Muskie in the will be a major area of discussion lead. His list of backers includes in the months that follow. Edmund Brown, the Californian Several candidates, George Secretary of State and various McGovern in particular, have state legislative leaders along voiced the opinion that to handle with some liberal Democratic the busing question in a purely Representatives in the House of political sense would cause severe Representatives. The Democratic damage to the progress of national committeeman for integration throughout the California stated, \If you want to country. They are joined in this. find a candidate to defeat Nixon, feeling by members of various you want a guy like Muskie.\ civil rights groups while others The two people seen as posing take the stand that busing is an serious threats to Muskie at this evil that should be done away time are Bayh and McGovern, with, but they feel that if it although there are others who becomes a hotly contested could offer some stiff political issue it will only lead to competition in the future. These polarization. throughout the nation have been warned that if they are sued by their stockholders on a pollution related matter they are virtually defenseless. Many American insurance companies are adopting the position taken by 1 1 Lloyds of London which is , ~ : simply that policies would no 4 ~ longer be written protecting 5 ~ corporations· from e n vir on- m en t ali s t s . The primary 6 1 reason for this change of policy . ~ • has been laid to the sharp 9 ~ increase of consumeriSm with i 0 ' regard to the pollution issue in 11 ' the past year. Prior to this new 1 2 ' policy, Lloyds had written· ' %0103171 PAGE Q U E S T I 0 N CIJMUI;,AT lVE lNDEX 1 BRADE DSSEIV~O {A~4l CLAss sHE <LARGfi-sMAJ .. t., C~URSe LEVEL (l~LQ) ~ P'REQUENCY OF' STUD. PRt;P, REQUJREMINTS (1 ~ GUft C:LASS ATTENDANCE RATlNGl c01JRSE <1·11~0) ~ATlNGI lNSTRUCTOR tNSTR PREPARED lNSTA KNOWl.EDGEABI..E lNSTR INCREASED INTERt:;ST INS'rR LECTURE CRUCIAt,. tNSTR ANS QUEST WE1L lNSTR AVAH.ABLE FOR HEI..P fNSTR GRADED FAlR~Y tNSTA RI;TN'O PAPERS FAST BOOKS 'WERE VALUABLE :tNOEPENOENT THOIJc;HT CLASS DISCUSSION GOOD GRADeS GIVEN IN COURSt: UNION COL~EGE COURSE EVAL.UATtON SPRING TERM 1970-71 10tUI71 2 Q U E S T I 0 N CUMIJI.ATIVE lN·DEX GRADe DESERVED (A~4) LAB TIME VAt.UABI..E tAB INTEGRATED WE~L AMT OF SUPERVISION ~REPARATION REQUIRED LAB lfXAMS L;AB REPO~T PREPARATION tNSTR SMART . LAB $llE (1~TOO ~ARGE) MATl~Gl I..AB (1;LO) ~ATINGI I..AB rNSTRUCT'O'R A 2 ~·3~ 2.1P6 2,2.9 16. s,,fl7 16 1~90 72 ¥1 97 97 ,4: 91 f2 $5 ~0 85 74 13 69 B C ~ :1.1 MEAN 2.43 3,fJO 78 Y4 2,~6 2,91 1,73 31 78 ij5 2,~6 75 83 $TO.y Q,89 0,8$ o,5Q 0 •. 50 0 ,47 0,43 o.29 1,38 t.48 0,3S 0,35 0,71 0,49 0147 o.se 0,66 tJ ,49 0.90 '0.70 o.92 D P 4 D STDV 0,92 0.72 o.72 (),44 0,44 0,97 1.14 0,66 1,17 0,79 1.18 1t22 include Senatot Henry Jackson One thing is certain, the issue of Washington and John' of busing will be an issue in the Lindsay, mayor of New York campaigns that lie in the future; City. The possibility of a making an already complicated Hu~phrey candidacy would issue even more complicated. radically change the face of the policies of up to 10 million All students interested in assisting with LINEBACKER please dollars on the officers and contact Jim Shearer, Director of Union College Course Evaluation political scene in California, and the workings of the regular state association are considered to be his if he should ask their support. It is still considered too early to hazard a guess as to the number of candidates who will enter the primary, but it is almost certain to swell beyond the list of names mentioned here. On October I, in a speech at Augsburg College, McGovern stated that he would grant general amnesty to draft evaders, including those who have gone into self-imposed exile abroad to escape the Selective Service System. McGovern made the definite point that he was the only one of the presidentail hopefuls to have taken such a stand. This point is rapidly becoming the basic thrust of McGovern's talks before groups of young voters, especially at colleges throughout the country. To date he has restated this position 14 times in a ten day tour of college * * * * Oeveland- National Guardsman Raymond D. Silvey, a member of the guard unit that was called to Kent State at the time of the shootings; has been granted a discharge after declaring himself a conscientious objector. Silvey first applied for the discharge after the confrontation of May 4, between guardsmen and students. His request had originally been refused by the Ohio Army review board in July. This decision was officially reversed on Wednesday by United States District Judge William K. Thomas. * * * * campuses that took him through Los Angeles - California, Florida, Nebraksa, The campaign of the National South Dakota. Minnesota and Aeronautics and Space Wisconsin. Administration for an increase in The student response to this their operating budget for next stand by McGovern has, on the year began this week. James C. whole, been exceptionally good; Fletcher. the new N.A.S.A. with cheers echoing in his ears as administrator, stated that unless he leaves the speaking platform: the budget was increased, the While McGovern took his tour United States stood a good of colleges a new issue appeared chance of losing its technological on the campaigning trail. The lead. question of the busing of school New developments that children has been taken up by Fletcher seeks in the program both Democrats and Republicans. include a space shuttle and Although it is not agreed on various scientific experiments. how much impact the busing The thrust of the campaign for issue will have, it i.s generally additional funds can best be accepted as a political .reality summed up with this. re Ylark that it will be an issue pervading from one of Mr. Fletcher's virtually all of the primaries and speeches: ,\I say that there is the election itself. indeedso~et~i~g wrong with our The primary reason for this sense Of 'priorities when scienti~ts new emphasis on busing centers have to defend with almost every . . ' directors of various companies. Committee, in 351 Fox, telephone number 370-0278. This fall, when you and Sally Torque go to the big game with Purvis U ., take alon~ a .<:opy of the October issue of the National Lampoon. For the 75 cents you would have spent _on a foot'tial~ pro~am to :find ~ut that Billy Glefson, tigllt end for the ~urveyo~, hails from Mofongo, 1n41ana, ~d·ma)ors.m port constrUc- tion, you'll have something !O d~ dunng half ~~~e whe~ t~e. Asher B. Durand H,!~h School Large.~ a~d Aimless Marching C'Orps shdes tlito John Phdap Sousa s Bataan De~th March for the fourth time. You ll be reading a fifteen-page• Mad parody; \l ~Sth Street,\ the ~ducattona~ TV s~o~ .w~ere th~se adorabl! MU:thas, Big Rat and the Cccaine Monster, teach ghetto c~ildren thear ~plac~, . Ma8lcal M~~ery ~o!-lr• which records the Beatld trip to a land where ~ll y~u need ts a .lawy~r; .'n,e Pm~ ~conds,,t a grtdiro~ ~anptyer starring thOSe inseparabl~ .chums, ~oose NIXon ·and ,Ruff M~tchtli, and . Right On! , 'the same catlipU$ war game played for years m army th1~k tanks and rad1~al en~~r :groups. And.mucb mpre-., ·1he Back to S..\'o0l issue ·of the Nstional Lampoon 1s on 5ale at newsstands evecywbere. · , l { ~ I '·4 , :·. I I • L'{ ''\\l t 1 f j(~-~' ') ~ s c I! \ b c ... ... R w , a1 d• aJ G c~ in a a Sf de ~ in cr m hi Sij co fo irr hi: ini pl· Ki is to ph Lc GI of an hu Gr int - ) nev. h'. tg tod Nyc Re! I1 Nyc rea~ (l pro; in tl are (~ the prOJ tod Ir . by repr and seric undc D trem educ larg~ Spu1 was scien a pe1 deve. estat thost of st secto expe• speci M. chan, forec short the h surpl;

Page 4 CONCORDIENSIS, OCT. 5, 1971 N ationaiNotes: OnThe'72 Campaign Trail The predominant story in national news this week concerned the 1972 Presidential campaign. The question of just who the Democratic candidate will be became even more undecided. In San Francisco the first preparations for the upcoming primary were put into motion a full eight months in advance of the scheduled date in May. Senator Edmund Muskie of Maine announced a staff of four more or less volunteer staffers and five paid employees, putting him far ahead of his opposition in this category. The closest anyone has come to having a base anything like this in California is the office set up by Senator George McGovern of South Dakota. McGovern has three paid employees. Dirch Bayh, senator from Indiana has also officially opened a campaign office in San Francisco. Early predictions on the part of various Californian Democrats put Muskie in the lead. His list of backers includes Edmund Drown, the Californian Secretary of State and various state legislative leaders along with some liberal Democratic Representatives in the House of Representatives. The Democratic national committeeman for California stated, \If you want to find a candidate to defeat Nixon, you want a guy like Muskie.\ The two people seen as posing serious threats to M uskie at this time are Dayh and McGovern, although there are others who could offer some stiff competition in the future. These include Senator Henry Jackson of Washington and John Lindsay, mayor of New York City. The possibility of a Humphrey candidacy would radically change the face of the political scene in California, and the workings of the regular state association are considered to be his if he should ask their support. It is still considered too early to hazard a guess as to the number of candidates who will enter the primary. but it is almost certain to swell beyond the list of names mentioned here. On October I, in a speech at Augsburg College, McGovern stated that he would grant general amnesty to draft evaders, including those who have gone into self-imposed exile abroad to escape the Selective Service System. McGovern made the definite point that he was the onlv one of the presidentail hopefuls to have taken such a stand. This point is rapidly becoming the basic thrust of McGovern's talks before groups of young voters. especially at college~ throughout the country. To date he has restated this position 14 times in a ten day tour of college around the fact tllat th1s school year, for tb.e first time, urban sch0ol districts outside of the confines of the South are being faced with this question. The issue is rapidly becoming a political as well as a social one in these areas. Senator Muskie was breath the $3.3 billion being spent on space research in a nation. that spends $17 billion - five times as much - for tobacco products and cosmetics.\ * * * * faced with the question of Grand Junction, Colorado • whether or not he would support Mr. W.L. Wilson of Grand busing in the San Franciscan Junction Colorado went out to sch0ol system. He answered that dig some holes for fence posts. In he had a \distaste\ for busing, the process of his diggings he thus appeasing the public, but he found tailings, a mound of hastened to add that he did not radioactive sand. Upon in any way support the stand on investigation, he found that there busing taken by President Nixon. are more tha:n just one of these Nixon's stand included asking mounds dotting the countryside Congress to prohibit the use of around Grand Junction in the federal funds to acquire buses. vicinity of an old uranium ore The busing question has risen processing mill. to the surface in Tennessee, The Atomic Energy Alabama, North Carolina, Commission has commented that Arkansas and Michigan. There is it is highly unlikely that enough some speculation that the focus . of these tailings could merge to may shift from these states to become in any way hazardous to others, or that it may just humans or other forms of life. mushroom. In any case it is certain that the busing question will be a major area of discussion in the months that follow. Several candidates, George McGovern in particular, have voiced the opinion that to handle the busing question in a purely political sense would cause severe damage to the progress of integration throughout the country. They are joined in this feeling by members of various civil rights groups while others take the stand that busing is an evil that should be done away with, but they feel that if it becomes a hotly contested political issue it will only lead to polarization. One thing is certain, the issue of busing will be an issue in the campaigns that lie in the future; making an already complicated issue even more complicated. * * * Cleveland· Nation a! Guardsman Raymond D. Silvey, a member of the guard unit that was called to Kent State at the time of the shootings, has been granted a discharge after declaring himself a conscientious objector. Silvey first applied for the discharge after the confrontation of May 4, between guardsmen and students. His request had originally been refused by the Ohio Army review board in July. This decision was officially reversed on Wednesday by United States District Judge William K. Thomas. * * * * * * The Environment· Corporation executives throughout the nation have been warned that if they are sued by their stockholders on a pollution related matter they are virtually defenseless. Many American insurance companies are adopting the position taken by Lloyds of London which is simply that policies would no longer be written protecting corporations from environ· m e n t a I i s t s . The primary reason for this change of policy has been laid to the sharp increase of consumerism with regard to the pollution issue in the past year. Prior to this new policy, Lloyds had written policies of up to l 0 million dollars on the officers and directors of various companies. campuses that took him through Los Angeles- California, Florida. Nebraksa. The campaign of the National South Dakota. Minnesota and Aeronautics and Space Wisconsin. Administration for an increase in The student response to this their operating budget for next stand by McGovern has, on the year began this week. James C. whole, been exceptionally good; Fletcher, the new N.A.S.A. with cheers echoing in his ears as administrator, stated that unless he leaves the speaking platform: the budget was increased, the While McGovern took his tour United States stood a good of colleges a new issue appeared chance of losing its technological on the campaigning trail. The lead. Linebacker Errata Last term (Spring Term 1970..:71) an error was made in the handling of the LINEBACKER cards for Professor Shanebrook's Fluid & Thermal Systems course (E33), thus invalidating the evaluation for both the recitation and lab sections which appeared in LINEBACKER. The cards have been corrected and repunched. The following are the correct results: %0/0:S/71 PAGE Q V E S T 1 0 N 1. CUMU~ATlVE INDEX 1 2, GRADE DeSERveD (A;;4) 3, CLASS SHE (LARGE-sMAI,l.) 4, COURSE LEVEL (1iL0) 5, FREQUENCY OF STUD· PREP, 6, REQUIREMENTS (1 = GUT> 7• CLASS ATTENDANCE 8. RATING: cOURSE 11•l..O) 9, RATIN'Gt lNSTRUCTO'R 10, JNSTR PREPARED 11, INST~ KNOWL.EDGEABL.E 12, INST~ INCREASED INTER~ST 13, INSTR LECTURE CRUCIA~ 14. INSTA ANS QUEST WE~L 15, tNSTR AVAILABLE F~R HELP 16. 1NSTR GRADED FAIRL.Y 17, 1NSTR RETN'O PAPERS rAST 18• BOOKS WERE VALUABLE 19, lNOEPENOENT THOUGHT 20. CLASS DISCUSSION GOOD GRADES GIVEN IN COURSe UNION COLLEGI; COU~SE EVALUATION SPRING TERM 1970-71 10103171 I=IAGE Q U E S T I 0 N 1. CUMU~AT[VE INDEX 2 2, GRAD! DESERVED (A~4) 3. LAB TlME VALUABLE 4, LAB tNTEGRATED WELL 5, AMT OF SUPERVISION 6, ~REPARATtON REQUIRED 7, LAB ~XAMS 8, LAB REPORT PREPARATION 9; fNSTR SMART 10, LAB SIZE (l:TOO LARGE) 11, RATING! LAB (1=L0) 12. RATtNGI LAB INSTRUCTOR 74$3~01 EGR-033 R r~UlD&T~E~MA( SYSTEMS 8t5 5HANE8R'00K ENROI;..l..ME N'f 25 RI!!P'Oii'f 1 NG 21 S4\ A 2 MEAN 2•33 2,¥6 2.19 /8 1,67 IS 1·'0 72 611 97 IIJ7 lil4 91 'il2 i5 ISO liS 74 83 69 8 c 5 11 STDV o.a9 0,83 0,59 0,50 0 ,47 0,43 a,29 ,,38 1.48 0, 3S 0,3$ 0,71 0. 49 0,47 0,58 0' 66 o,49 o.9o 0.70 0,92 0 Ill 4 0 753J•o1 EGR•Q33 ~ fLUlO&THERMAL SYST~MS 815 5HANEBROOK ENROL.LMENT 25 RkPO~fiNG 23 92% MEAN STDV 2,43 J,UQ 78 94 2,26 2,,1 1. /3 3. 78 li.i5 2,1!6 75 83 0,92 0,72 0,72 0,44 0,44 0,97 1.14 0,66 1,17 0,79 1.18 1,22 All students interested in assisting with LINEBACKER please contact Jim Shearer, Director of Union College Course Evaluation Committee, in 351 Fox, telephone number 370-0278. question of the busing of school New developments that children has been taken up by Fletcher seeks in the program both Democrats and Republicans. include a space shuttle and Although it is not agreed on various scientific experiments. how much impact the busing The thrust of the campaign for issue will have, it is generally additional funds can best be accepted as a political reality summed up with this re '1ark that it will be an issue pervading from one of Mr. Fletcher's virtually all of the primaries and speeches: .. I say that there is the election itself. indeed something wrong with our The primary reason for this sense of priorities when scientists new emphasis 011. busing centers have to defend with almost every This fall, when you and Sally Torque go to the big game with Purvis U ., take along a copy of the October issue of the National Lampoon. For the 75 cents you would have spent _on a footpal~ pro~ram to find out that Billy Glefson, tight end for the Purveyors, hails from Mofongo, lndtana, a!ld ~aJors m port construc- tion, you'll have something to do during half !i~e whe~ t~e Asher B. Durand s;!gh School Large_Drum a~d Aimless Marching Corps slides into John Ph1hp Sousa s Bataan Death March for the fourth time. You ll be reading a fifteen-page· Mad parody; \125th Street, .. the ~ducationa~ TV s~o~ .wh:ere th9se adorabl~ Muthas, Big Rat and the Cocaine Monster, teach ghetto c~tldren the1r ,place, . Magtcal M~~ezy ~o~r, which records the Beatles• trip to a land where all y~u need 1s a lawy~r; . The Ftn.~t ~conds,, ~ grtdlron gripper starring those inseparabl~ chums, M_oose NIXon and .Ruff M~tchell; and .. Right Ont , the same campus war game played for years in army thmk tanks and rad1cal enc~ou11;ter groups. And much more. The Back to S,.11ool issue of the National Lampoon is on sale at newsstands everywhere. l J 'I'· . ( • r :' ... s ( ~ \ I l r I;; ... f f 1' t• l' •• b c \' S• ... c~ ill a a SI d~ ai in cr m hi SlJ cc fo irr hi in pi Ki is to pl; L( GJ of an hu GI int - j ne\ hig tod Ny~ Re1 I Nyc rea~ (: pro inti are (: the pro: tod Ir by repr and seri< und~ D trerr educ larg< Spu1 was scier. a pej deve estat those of s1 secto expe speci M, chan. forec short the I; surpl

CONCORDIENSIS, OCT. 5, 1971 Page S The Deuils, New Film Proues Critics Wrong by MARX URMAN . With its graphic description of. Using contrap.untal editing (A \l'he Devils\ is now playing at such _thi 11 gs as crucifixion, I !fu~leyan tecbinqu~ ~ken from the Cinema Delaware in Albany. Swing into Homecoming Weetend by startihg e•rJy, with WRUC, Union Radio. On Thursday night, Odober 7, tb~ whole gang will be at the €orner Tavern, 212 Front Str~t, Schenectady, doing the first live remote broadt::ast of the year. The fun begins at 8:041 p.m. Free drinks (your choice) will be given away all nlgbt. In addition, the f\mt 25 ·girls to show their Union ID's wiD get a free drink. Make plans to be there .. castration, pederasty, pillage, and Potnt Counterpomt ) Ru~ell general hysteria, Ken Russell' cuts back a.nd f<>rth developmg \The DeVils\ is upsetting the each harr~\?ng st~and. _ . powets that be .. Panned almost . Related ~n q~tck, sharp and universally, saddled with a 't~uly shockm~ tmages, the plot restrictive X r~ting, banned in lines event~ally . converge; s1~ter Sweden ·seized by the Pope and Jeanne clatms to her superiors fmally, dubbed \The most ~l~r . that . ~he . ha~ had sex With film ever made\ by Playboy G~and1er. He .'•s. then accused ?f Magazine, the film qoesn't seem · ~emg tbe Dewl tncllt'nate but. !his Agnew Rhetoric Shows An Irreverence For Life .to have much of a chance. ~ a m~re cover for the pohtlcal by CHRIS MANDEVILLE Attica that \to compare the loss Nonetheless I urge you to see ' lssues mvolved .. The nuns, the There exists in American of life by thos~ who violate the .. The Devils\ ~ not merely c~erro:, the exorctsts (who tr~ t? society a very large segment of society's laws with a loss of life of· because l'm feeling charitable. · ~d ,sister Je~tnne of Grand•er s people who have little reverence ' those whose job it is to uphold it On the contrary, I believe that ~nfluence), thF r?yal. co~rt, for human life, but that is not to, represents not simply an assault \The Devils\ is a very good and, tndeed the e~tne o~ty~ l$ dnven sa.y that the average member on human sensibility, but an ·sometimes, great film. · . beyond the bnnk of madness. We would shoot his next-door ins tilt to reason.\ Mr. Agnew is Based upon Aldous Huxley's see that .. they hav~ become the neighbor, Rather, it is p~oposed entitled to his strange \The Devils of Loudun\ very devils for which thi!Y hunt. that this segment of our society formulations of the value of Russell's film Js an adaptatio~ Only Grandier, who is burned Tat suppo~ts both overtly and human life, but the sensibilities which i$ faithful to its source the stake, does n<>t succumb. 'i et apathetically an ethic of the of many others have been , and, indeed, to much of Huxley's even tWs~ .victory is cheapene~ expendability of human life. offended by the callousness with deeply pessimistic Work. I recall when the city he fights to save ts Some concern has been shown, which he engages in his brand of an image in Huxley's \Eyeless in destroyed. . . . ' though many of the concerned radical propagandizing. ~is Gaza., -which I feel epitomizes his . Th~ugh based .~ntlrely u~o~ have come, either out of statement that .. the na1ve cynicism and utter lack of faith histoncal fact, The . Devds frustration or out of boredom, · equating of anti-social with in humanity and its possibilities: transce~ds most other ex,ampl~s to the point at which .they will no social goals... could have been a nu:de couple is making love on °( ~ormg costume drama. It ts longer read of .-: dissatisfaction foreheard in the rhetorical a- rooftop when they are . brtllt~ntly . Jlh?tographed by with societal ills. There is no excesses which followed splattered with the blood of a D.avtd Watkin,,. excellently · certainty that either militant previous confrontations between dog that has fallen from an ~ormed by Oliver . Ree~ . and rhetoric or action of the radical society's authority and anti-social llirplane. Russell~s.f'um abounds ~anes.sa Re~grave, and. st!tkingly left will lead beyond a dead-end. force\ evidences his tendency to in such images, ones which vtsl!alized ~n surrealistic sets But the continued brutalization ' brand challenge to or change of crystaJlize with chiUing clarity w~~~ remm~ one of . the and even dehumanization of the his established order as being man's frailty and the futility of pamt~ngs of Hteronymous Uosch. American society still worries \anti-social.\ Following such his creative efforts. More Adn:uttedly, the film has faults many who feel the need for confrontations there has indeed significantly, . \The Devils\ , i~ (cert~!nly fe:er than ~Women ~? humanity. been much rhe~oric; but for Mr. concerned wtth man's capacity Love and The ~ustc. Lover~ ' It worries and angers me when Agnew to condemn the \radical. for inflicting pain., his basic R~sell's two P!e'?-ous ft~s). 'i et so \responsible'' a humanitari~n revolutionary excesses\ while impulse to destroy ·himself and With so .much 10 It that 18 good, as Vice-President Agnew engaging in the most narrow and his kind why has it inet with so much comments on the tragedy at inflammatory militancy himself Russell begins his fllm by indifference and 0 U.~age?. is to lose sight of the basic initiating several simultaneous The errors of cnttcs, lik~ those plots: Caxdinal Richelieu and of anyone else,: must occasionally f .. re~·hm .. an o· .rr\en·ta.t.J'-on King Louis (I believe the setting be oyerlooke~. However whe!l .a i7 . . . . . is IStb ~entury_E'ra:nce) conspire film ts called n~st~, ~!though 1t ts to liquidate the Protestants a no more pessimiStic than, for In Ne; e·.... o· f a· Facei.J\ft•'ng plague rages in the city ' of exam~!e, . Be~g~an 's \The · · . · : · U . · · · Lou<lun; a liberal priest, Gaston Shame., w~en It Is cal!ed vulgar by LEAPIN Grandier, tries to find something or htst~n~ally : ,maccurat.e If first impressions, in the form of orientation, were critical, it seems of value in his corrupt society although lt IS no more grap~~c to me that the freshman class of Union College would shrink and church; a sexually frustrated, and ~ 0 l~s~ accu~ate .~an, iet s immeasurably after said annual endeavor. Fortunately, freshmen are hunchbacked nun yearns for say, Felluu S~tyncon -.when able to intuit the fact that orientation is not indicative of things to Grandier and sets her convent such severe blind spots exist come. into a frenzy with her fantasies. then true devils are at work. Not a few members of the class of their first three days here was f '75 t ld th t th b d such that they were anxiously Ed~~atio·n MoratOrium o8clcir8d on om ;?rt,::'·m~:::: N D . t I p what are the alternatives? _· ·. ew .. ·oe ora . rogra·ms ori~:~tio~~~~e::eu~ay it~o ::n~~ A one,-year moratorium on the approval of all Nyquist referred to a study by the Center for the In the course of those three new doctoral programs requested by institutions of Study of Higher Education at Berkeley,. California, infamous days, freshmen are fed higher education in New Y-ork State was announced which suggested that no institution should start a a steady diet of speeches upon today by Commissioner of Education Ewald ll. new program unless it is highly innovative, fully speeches. Many don't bother to Nyquist. The action, approved by the Board of inter-disciplinary, or in a discipline where there is a go. Other who feel obligated to. Regents, became effective October I. nation~tl shortage. It also recommends that do so frltnkly don't get a helluva In a memorandum ·being sent to college officials, programs be eliminated which have not reached lot, if anything, ,out of these Nyquist said he was making the move for two optimum enrollment before 1974 or 1975, since it is sessions. Is it all necessary? reasons: unlikely that they will do so afterwards. Almost as soon as they arrive, (1) Deep concern over the expansion of doctoral The Commissioner's special advisory committee freshmen are !riven a guided tour programs in both public and non-public institutions concluded that programs now offered are more than of the -campus, which seems to be in the face of evidence that present and future needs sufficient to meet both short and long-tenn needs in an absurdity. One cannot become are l!OW being met. most_ fields. They expressed deep concern that as familiar with a totally new (2) The effect such expansion may have on both enrollments fall below planned capacity, the deficit environment in one fell swoop. It the quality of new programs and the effectiveness of will threaten the fiscal stability of institutions and is my belief that newcomers programs in institutions having a deep commitment that the quality of their programs will suffer should be given an opportunity to doctoral education. accordingly. In some cases this could result in high to explore the place on their In arriving at the decision, Nyquist was assisted quality and needed prograrn.s being closed, while own. Not until the day before by a special advisory committee consisting of othets of lesser quality could be continued. classes should the tour be representatives of unversities, other State agencies, The committee recommended a planned offered. That way, freshmen and private foundations. This group cited the retrenchment where necessary, including joint would have to be able to serious educational and fiscal consequences of programs and agreements among institutions to familiarize themselves with the under-utilization of existing doctoral resources. avoid duplication of course offerings where surroundings. The purpose of the During tb.e past decade, there has been a circumst~nces warrant such action. tour would be to identify the tremendous national expansion in doctoral In order to study the overall picture, Nyquist said functions of the various buildings. education, the Commissioner pointed out. This is he plans a comprehensive assessment of doctoral Laudable in the orientation largely the result of reaction to the launching of programs in the State to consider their cost, quality, program is the group idea, which Sputnik and the subsequent feeling that this country and effectiveness, and the resources available in freshmen find very conductive to was falling behind the Soviet Union in training relation to long-term needs. He intends to appoint a meeting people. . Also, the scientific personnel·. Furthermore, he added_, it was Commissioner's Advisory Committee to prepare replacement of the annual mixer a period when both the State and City systems were recommendations on the next step that needs to be by a free concert is a blessing, developing into comprehensive universities and taken following the moratorium, Speaking of free concerts, the establishing doctoral programs in the same fields as Nyquist asked for the support of all institutions J. Geils ••mues\ Band is not a those available at private institutions. \The growth to realize the objectives of the moratorium and for blessing. They played little that of such programs, both in the public and private their cooperation in the studies to be undertaken could be called ''blues.\ Many sectors, \Nyguist said, \was encouraged to meet shortly. who loved the concert were expected shortages of all types of highly trained lie reminded officials that the moratorium was carried to heaven by the group's specialists.\ .. not a prohibition against planning for new doctoral togetherness and beat, but More recently, he explained~ the picture has programs. \We should not impede needed anybody, especially a group with changed. \Educators are now questioning earlier innovation of new programs in certain critical the big buildbup afforded the J. forecasts off~tu~e needs .• The:tnow pr~c;Hc~ th~t the fields,\ he said. \Waivers ~y be granted if the ~eiJs B~nd, -can dothat. ~ was shortages whtch m fact dtd ex:tst at the begmrung of approval of a new program is in the best interests of d1sappomted: though; luckily, I the last-decade have been' met, lands jjnat .henceforth· the institution and of gmduate redueatiob. broad~y i~ . ~n't say I dtdh't get IliY money's surpluS'el!IJWOuld,oecur.'~ 1,,., ; \ ,,:;.<I-1-··· ; ' ' ' l l ' . the State.\ f . l . ' ; : ' ~ r . ' . ' . ~worth! . . \\ • ' ·-~,'~ ','!.1';. , ,'1 ·~ ''I• tragedy of that occurrence and to leave little hope for reconciliation. It is possible to overextend the philosophy of societal guilt for the pris()ners' conditions, .as the Vice-President contends in an article in the New York Times; but fQr him to virtually ignore the causes of the tragedy in favor of attacking the inmates, the radical left. and the mass media coverage of Attica is nonsensically biased. While humans are convicted and sent to prisons as anti-social animals to be corrected, Mr. Agnew states that, though all is not perfect, \the theory of American criminology and QUr penal system remain among the -most humane in the world.\ Why then, Mr. Agnew, is there such a high return-rate at most or our \correctional institutions?\ Is it just possible that if those anti- social animals don't die during their first subjection to correction attempts that we might send them back to languish in inhumane conditions until they do? I don't mean die physically, but die spiritually and psychologically as the prisons continue to \correct\ them and teach them that they should be treated below the level of human beings. It may be true, as Mr. Agnew says, that \acquiescence to the demands of the criminal element of any society only begets greater violence.\ But to commit inhumanity to man may also beget both more criminals and more violence. There is danger in a society which applauds the use of destructive action - either to regain a prison by slaughter or to threaten the lives of hostages in hope of acquiring humane treatment in an intolerable situation~ There is danger in a society that ignores the pleas of some of its members to live as humans. It is events like Attica, Vietnam, Kent, and the killing of George Jackson that brutalize the American conscience. Why is there such criticism of a decision conv1ctmg a man of massacring Vietnamese? Why have large numbers of our people grown tired of pressing for faster withdrawal from Vietnam? Why is there little criticism of the actions of a military court in dismissing some charges, reducing others, and then acquitting a man indirectly or directly involved at My Lai? And why do we not feel the grief only felt by the immediate family of a Bronx man beaten and stabbed to death by a group of youths while he tried to retrieve the bicycle they had stolen from his son? We forget these \small\ deaths. The propaganda of hate does not issue only from the mouths of radicals espousing revolution. There are those in our society who diminish any hope of reconciliation or consideration of human life when they vindictively condemn those who· violate their sense of order. It would be more profi~able for them to study and to attempt to understand why there are those who are are satisfied with the callous state of their society.

'( ~~ I: ! 1 'I'· I . ( ... .; • CONCORDIENSIS, OCT. 5, 1971 Page 5 The Deuifs, New Film Proues Critics Wrong by MARK URMAN With its graphic description of . Using contrap.untal editing (A \The Devils\ is now playing at such things as crucifixion, I ~u~leyan techinqu7 ~ken from the Cinema Delaware in Albany. Swing into Homecoming Weekend by starting early, with WRUC, Union Radio. On Thursday night, October 7, the whole gang will be at the Corner Tavern, 222 Front Street, Schenectady, doing the fmt live remote broadcast of the year. The fun begins at 8:00 p.m. Free drinks (your choice) will be given away aU night. In addition, the first 25 ·girls to show their Union ID's wiD get a free drink. Make plans to be there. castration, pederasty, pillage, and Pomt Counterpomt ) Rus~ell general hysteria, Ken Russell' cuts back ~nd forth developmg \The Devils\ is upsetting the each harrov:mg st~and. powers that be. Panned almost Related ~n q~uck, sharp and universally, saddled with a · t:uly shockmg tmages, the plot restrictive X rating, banned in hnes event~ally converge; st~ter Sweden seized by the Pope and Jeanne clmms to her supenors finally, dubbed \The most ;ulgar that ~he ha~ had sex with fi:lm ever made\ by Playboy G~andter. He .ts. then accused ~f Magazine, .the film doesn't seem ?emg the Dev1l mcarnate bu~ ~his to have much of a chance. ts a mere cover for the pohttcal Nonetheless I urge you to see issues involved .. The nuns, the ••The Devils\ - not merely c~er~, the exorcists (who t~ t~ because rm feeling charitable. ~id Sister Jeanne of Grandter s On the contrary, I believe that ~nfluence), th~ r?yal. co~ut, .. The Devils\ is a very good and, mdeed the e~tlre ctty, IS dnven sometimes, great film. beyond the bnnk of madness. We Agnew Rhetoric Shows An Irreverence For Life Based upon Aldous Huxley's see that they have become the ••The Devils of Loudun.. very devils for which they hunt. Russell's film is an adaptatio~ Only Grandier, who is burned .at which is faithful to its source the stake, does not succumb. I et and, indeed, to much of Huxley's even this .victory. is cheapene~ deeply pessimistic work. I recall when the city he f1ghts to save 1s by CHRIS MANDEVILLE Attica that \to compare the loss There exists in American of life by thos~ who violate the society a very large segment of society's laws with a loss of life of people who have little reverence those whose job it is to uphold it for human life, but that is not to , represents not simply an assault say that the average member on human sensibility, but an would shoot his next-door insult to reason.\ Mr. Agnew is neighbor. Rather, it is proposed entitled to his strange that this segment of our society formulations of the value of supports both overtly and human life, but the sensibilities apathetically an ethic of the of many others have been an image in Huxley's \Eyeless in destroyed. Gaza\ which I feel epitomizes his . Th~ugh based entirely upon cynicism and utter lack of faith histoncal fact, \The Devils\ in humanity and its possibilities: transce~ds most other exampl~s a nude couple is making love on of bormg costume drama. It IS a rooftop when they are brilli~ntly ph?tographed by splattered with the blood of a David Watkm, excellently dog that has fallen from an performed by Oliver Ree:J . and airplane. Russell's film abounds \:anes.sa Re~grave, and. st;tkmgly in such images, ones which VIS';lahzed ~n surreahstlc sets crystallize with chilling clarity W~IC~ remm~ one of the man's frailty and the futility of pamt~ngs of Hiero?ymous Bosch. his creative efforts. More Admittedly, the film has faults significantly, \The Devils\ is (cert~!nly fe~er than ~Women ~? concerned with man's capacity Love ~nd The ~uSlc Lover~ , for inflicting pain, his basic R~ssell s two p;e'?-ous fil~s). I et impulse to destroy himself and With so much m 1t that IS good, his kind. why has it met with so much expendability of human life. offended by the callousness with Some concern has been shown, which he engages in his brand of though many of the concerned radical propagandizing. His have come, either out of statement that \the naive frustration or out of boredom, • equating of anti-social with to the point at which they will no social goals ... could have been longer read of . dissatisfaction foreheard in the rhetorical with societal ills. There is no excesses which followed certainty that either militant previous confrontations between rhetoric or action of the radical society's authority and anti-social left will lead beyond a dead-end. force\ evidences his tendency to But the continued brutalization · brand challenge to or change of and even dehumanization of the his established order as being American society still worries \anti-social.\ Following such many who feel the need for confrontations there has indeed humanity. been much rhetoric; but for Mr. It worries and angers me when Agnew to condemn the \radical so \responsible\ a humanitarian revolutionary excesses\ while as Vice-President Agnew engaging in the most narrow and Russell begins his film by indifference and o~t~age?. initiating several simultaneous The errors of cnttcs, bk~ those plots: Cardinal Richelieu and of anyone else, must occasiOnally King Louis (I believe the setting be oyerlooked. However whe~ .a is 15th century France) conspire film IS called n~st~, ~!though 1t IS to liquidate the Protestants, a no more pesstmtstlc , tha~.. for plague rages in the city of exam~~e, Be~g~an s The Loudun; a liberal priest, Gaston Shame., w~en It IS cal~ed vulgar Grandier, tries to find something or hist~n~ally .maccura~e of value in his corrupt society although 1t 1s no more graphic and church; a sexually frustrated, and ~ 0 l7s~ accu~ate .~an, iet's hunchbacked nun yearns for say, Felhm S~tyncon -.when Grandier and sets her convent such severe blind spots extst into a frenzy with her fantasies. then true devils are at work. comments on the tragedy at inflammatory militancy himself is to lose sight of the basic Freshman Orientation In Need of a Facelifting by LEAPIN If first impressions, in the form of orientation, were critical, it seems to me that the freshman class of Union College would shrink immeasurably after said annual endeavor. Fortunately, freshmen are able to intuit the fact that orientation is not indicative of things to come. Not a few members of the class of their first three days here was such that they were anxiously looking forward to Thanksgiving vacation! Edu~ation 'Moratorium oeCiarecr ondom New Doctoral Programs A one-year moratorium on the approval of all new doctoral programs requested by institutions of higher education in New York State was announced today by Commissioner of Education Ewald B. Nyquist. The action, approved by the Board of Regents, became effective October I. In a memorandum being sent to college officials, Nyquist said he was making the move for two reasons: (1) Deep concern over the expansion of doctoral programs in both public and non-public institutions in the face of evidence that present and future needs are now being met. (2) The effect such expansion may have on both the quality of new programs and the effectiveness of programs in institutions having a deep commitment to doctoral education. In arriving at the decision, Nyquist was assisted by a special advisory committee consisting of representatives of unversities, other State agencies, and private foundations. This group cited the serious educational and fiscal consequences of under-utilization of existing doctoral resources. During the past decade, there has been a tremendous national expansion in doctoral education. the Commissioner pointed out. This is largely the result of reaction to the launching of Sputnik and the subsequent feeling that this country was falling behind the Soviet Union in training scientific personnel. Furthermore, he added, it was a period when both the State and City systems were developing into comprehensive universities and establishing doctoral programs in the same fields as those available at private institutions. \The growth of such programs, both in the public and private sectors, \Nyguist said, \was encouraged to meet expected shortages of all types of highly trained specialists.\ More recently, he explained, the picture has changed. \Educators are now questioning earlier forecasts of future needs. They now predict that the shortages which in fact did exist at the beginning of the last decade have been met, and that henceforth surpluses would occur.\ Nyquist referred to a study by the Center for the Study of Higher Education at Berkeley, California, which suggested that no institution should start a new program unless it is highly innovative, fully inter-disciplinary, or in a discipline where there is a national shortage. It also recommends that programs be eliminated which have not reached optimum enrollment before 1974 or 1975, since it i:; unlikely that they will do so afterwards. The Commissioner's special advisory committee concluded that programs now offered are more than sufficient to meet both short and long-term needs in most fields. They expressed deep concern that as enrollments fall below planned capacity, the deficit will threaten the fiscal stability of institutions and that the quality of their programs will suffer accordingly. In some cases this could result in high quality and needed programs being closed, while others of lesser quality could be continued. The committee recommended a planned retrenchment where necessary. including joint programs and agreements among institution& to avoid duplication of course offerings where circumstances warrant such action. In order to study the overall picture, Nyquist said he plans a comprehensive assessment of doctoral programs in the State to consider their cost, quality, and effectiveness, and the resources available in relation to long-term needs. He intends to appoint a Commissioner's Advisory Committee to prepare recommendations on the next step that needs to be taken following the moratorium. Nyquist asked for the support of all institutions to realize the objectives of the moratorium and for their cooperation in the studies to be undertaken shortly. He reminded officials that the moratorium was not a prohibition against planning for new doctoral programs. \We should not impede needed innovation of new programs in certain critical fields,\ he said. \Waivers ID!\Y be granted if the approval of a new program is in the best interests of the institution and of graduate education broadly in the State.\ , But just what is wrong and what are the alternatives? The consensus is that orientations is one day too long. In the course of those three infamous days, freshmen are fed a steady diet of speeches upon speeches. Many don't bother to go. Other who feel obligated to do so frankly don't get a helluva lot, if anything, ,out of these sessions. Is it all necessary? Almost as soon as they arrive, freshmen are eiven a guided tour of the campus, which seems to be an absurdity. One cannot become familiar with a totally new environment in one fell swoop. It is my belief that newcomers should be given an opportunity to explore the place on their own. Not until the day before classes should the tour be offered. That way, freshmen would have to be able to familiarize themselves with the surroundings. The purpose of the tour would be to identify the functions of the various buildings. Laudable in the orientation program is the group idea, which freshmen find very conductive to meeting people. Also, the replacement of the annual mixer by a free concert is a blessing, Speaking of free concerts, the J. Geils \Blues\ Band is not a blessing. They played little that could be called \blues.\ Many who loved the concert were carried to heaven by the group's togetherness and beat, but anybody, especially a group with the big build-up afforded the J. Geils Band, can do that. I was disawointed, though, luckily, I can't say I didn't get my money's worth! tragedy of that occurrence and to leave little hope for reconciliation. It is possible to overextend the philosophy of societal guilt for the prisoners' conditions, as the Vice-President contends in an article in the New York Times; but for him to virtually ignore the causes of the tragedy in favor of attacking the inmates, the radical left, and the mass media coverage of Attica is nonsensically biased. While humans are convicted and sent to prisons as anti-social animals to be corrected, Mr. Agnew states that, though all is not perfect, \the theory of American criminology and our penal system remain among the most humane in the world.\ Why then. Mr. Agnew, is there such a high return-rate at most or our \correctional institutions?\ Is it just possible that if those anti- social animals don't die during their first subjection to correction attempts that we might send them back to languish in inhumane conditions until they do? I don't mean die physically, but die spiritually and psychologically as the prisons continue to \correct\ them and teach them that they should be treated below the level of human beings. It may be true, as Mr. Agnew says, that \acquiescence to the demands of the criminal element of any society only begets greater violence.\ But to commit inhumanity to man may also beget both more criminals and more violence. There is danger in a society which applauds the use of destructive action - either to regain a prison by slaughter or to threaten the lives of hostages in hope of acqumng humane treatment in an intolerable situation. There is danger in a society that ignores the pleas of some of its members to live as humans. It is events like Attica, Vietnam, Kent, and the killing of George Jackson that brutalize the American conscience. Why is there such criticism of a decision convicting a man of massacring Vietnamese? Wh~ have large numbers of our people grown tired of pressing for faster withdrawal from Vietnam? Why is there little criticism of the actions of a military court in dismissing some charges. reducing others, and then acquitting a man indirectly or directly involved at My Lai? And why do we not feel the grief on!} felt by the immediate family of a Bronx man beaten and stabbed to death by a group of youths while he tried to retrieve the bicycle they had stolen from hi~ son? We forget these \small\ deaths. The propaganda of hate does not issue only from the mouths of radicals espousing revolution. There are those in our society who diminish any hope of reconciliation or consideration of human life when they vindictively condemn those who violate their sense of order. It would be more profitable for them to study and to attempt to understand why there are those who are are satisfied with the callous state of their society.

Page. 6 CONCORDIENSIS, OCT. S, 1971 BICYCLE RACKS ANYONE? '· •· .. J, I ' 'l ~.r oj .., by The daydr• shatten genuine footbal ~. now a, told th1 punted and sqt ... )~ fourth couldn~· refused j, : went 01 back in The' in moe down between watch da:sh. emerge1 hollowe• residenc breedin& Namath: occasion This would h• grand l never int A fe~ dulled t enough sleep. :E RA.pic defense, specializi someone \Elmira lapsed i boredom evety ott old U-Cc Dasical Coflege dipped I and as · appears 1 \Frisbee\ scene. \] game of' game of 1 to do all to impn whom he distress. 1 of footb; fanatics s fo~t?aU-p legttnnate O.K. - about the ,_

Page 6 CONCORDIENSIS, OCT. 5, 1971 BICYCLE RACKS ANYONE? ~ •.. ~··· :; .• by The daydn shatten genuine footbal now a' told thf punted and sqt fourth couldn': refused went 01 back in The~ m moe down between watch clash. emerge• hollowe• residenc, breed in~ :\iamath: occasion This would be grand i never int A fev dulled t enough sleep. E ·R.A. pic defense. specializi '•' someone \Elmira lapsed i boredom every otl old U-Cc Basic a I College dipped 1 and as appears 1 · ; \Frisbee\ j scene. \I I game of' • 1 game of • to do all to impn l Whom he ' d' .· t Is tress. 1 j of footb1 . : fanatics s . : football-p \ legitimate , O.K. _ . about the

•· jp ... ~ .. ~ '· i.. \ Fall V AltSITY FOOTBALL Head Coach · Jerry Everling Assi:,tants - Bruce V\-;heeler Arthur Lawrence September-· 18 Worcester Poly A 2:00 p.m, 25 St. lawrence H 1:30 p.m. October~ 2 Alfred A 1:30 p.m. 9 Rochester H 1:30 p.m. ( H omec,oming) A 1: 8() 16 R.:P.I. p~~. 23 Hobat•t H 1:30. p.m. 30 Williams A 1:30 p.m. November- 6 Middlebury A 1:30 p.m. 13 Hamilton ·~ -H 1:30 p.m. FRESHMAN FOOTBALL Coaah ~· R. Druce Al'lison October~ ) Sports VARSITY SOCCER Coach .~ Robert McMurray October- 6 Trinity 9 Rochester 13 Hamilton 16 R.P.I. 2(:) Hobart 23 Colgate 27 Kings :Pobit 30 Middl~bury November- 2 Hartford 6 ·Albany State A 3;.00 p.m. A 2:SO p.m. H 2:30p.m. A 11:30 a.m. H .2:30 p.m. H 2:00 p.rn. A· 3:00p.m. A 2:00p.m. H 2:00 p.m. H 1:00 p.m. FRESHMAN SOCCER Coach -William Scanlon October-- Sked CONCORDIENSIS, OCT. S, 1971 Page 7 CROSS COUNTRY Coach - Chris Gentile October-. 5 Williams 9 Trinity 16 R.P.I. 19 Middlebl}ry 22 Hamilton 27 Oneonta 30 Albany Invitational Novembet- A 3:30p.m. H 12:00 Noo[} A 12:30 p.m. A 3:30p.m. H 3:30p.m. H 4:00p.m. 3 Siena H 4:00 p.m. 6 N.Y. State Champs at R.P.I. ' . 8 Tr.inity 15 Middlebury .22 IJVCC A 3:00p.m. H 2:0:0 p.m. H 2:00p.m . H 2:00p.m. 9 Albany State 16 R.P.I. (J.V.) 19 Sch'dy. C.C. 22 Oneonta H 12:00 N0on A 11:30 a.m. 1\. 3: 30 p.m. H 2:30p.m. H 2:30p.m. A 2:00 p.m . 26 Colgate 29 R.P.I. SO Middlehqry November-·· November- 5 Utica Callege - A 2:00p.m. . 2 Albany State (J.V,) A 3:00 p.m . .~ Exclusiue: · Frisbees Float Onto Touch football's Field by DR .. ARNOl;,JJ S. PERDETT The y.oung. wayfarer 1 's daydreams Were brutally shattered with the crash o:( a genuine leather Dilly Wade NFL football careening on past his now aching skull. The moans told the story - another kickoff punted off the side of the foot and squibbed out of bounds, the fourth in a row. One teat11 couldn~t kick and the other refused to take the ball where it went out - hoping to nm one back in true Jon Arnett fashion. The wayfarer retrieved the ball in mock diligence and settled down on the wall running between Fox and Davidson to watch this immortal gridiron cfa:sh. The combatants. had emerged earliei · .froin the hollowed halls of those two great residence h!llls, specializing in the breeding 1 of fantasizing young Namaths and Warfields; and . an· occasional Lem Barney. This year however, there would be no Betii to shatter those grand illusions; reality would never intrude. A few minutes of watching dulled the journeyman's · senses enough for him to go back to sleep. Even with a gazelle-like 'R.A. picking off passes on defense, and a strong armed QB specializing in long spirals to someone known only as the \Elmira Flash\ the ganie quickly lapsed into the same rut of boredom that has beset virtually eve'ry other contest of its kind in old U-Coll. Basically, the quality of Union College touch football has dipped below all expectations, and as a result, this season appears to be the year in which \Frisbee\ cracks the 'U.·Coll scene. \Frisbee\ _: the official game in which there are two the only \penalty\ for such contending squads usually actions is scorn from one's peers. consisting· of ~fbout seven people The sport of Frisbee was on each team. The game is coed originated by a group of fanatics but the better players have in Ann Arbor, Michigan, in always proved to be males (not 1967. The ·~r..iginal group of fans being chauvinistic, but realistic.) has since grown . irtt.o ~n The field can be just about any international frisbee association dimension, but preferably its (d~noted by the letters I.F.A., length sh·ould be roughly 100 often seen on the back of yards while the width is frisbees),. and is sponsored by the determined by natural Wham-0 ·Frisbee Corporation. boundaries, creeks, railroad Besides a national tournament tracks, etc. There are end zones held each year, high school teams at each end of the field and are springing up around the those, too, have no limit to their country. New Yersey has an length except for natural actual scholastic league while boundaries. The .only equipment :Princeton and the University of is a Master ToJJ:rnament .. ~.Q.del Michigan are among the colleges Frisbee (bla~K .. \'r white.) No fielding a team. player~ wear anything special for What are the chances of frisbee protection or aid ofany sort. invading Union?' Are the The object of the game is to hallowed halls of old U-College move the frisbee from one end of ready for a game in which the field across your opponent's, anybody can play, and in which goal line. The frisbee can only be players· are not involved in moved by passes, and there is no dismembering others? runnilig with the frisbee allowed. Can they involve themselves in When a pass is Intercepted by a true team sport, in which an a defender intercept in the end individual can stand out bUt not zone, or if a pass is broken up in control the action by his the end zone, the defending te~ lonesome (a Ia every other \team is allowed to. initiate play ffOm sport,\ including soccer)? their goal line. If anybody male or female There is no sport like frisbee at would like to play frisbee and/ or all, although there are aspects learn more about the game, he similar to other games. There is a can drop in on this campus' pseudo-kickoff at the games start resident I.F.A. representative, and after each score. The kickoff Marty Berman, in room 251 is accomplished by heaving the Davidson South (377-2738 or Frisbee down the field to where Box It 749.)\Keep'em\ flying. the other team is lined up in anticipation. About the Author Dr .. Arnold S. Perdett is a The .. throw-off\ does not have native of Nashville,. Tenn., who to be caught by the receiving periodically. tours the country team, but should an attempt be and. writes down his reactions to made· and bungled, the team the nation's sports scene. Among which thtew off gets the frisbee his past works include \The where it was dropped (to be Connecticut Valley's Response to <'~\dropped\,, the frisbee xp.ust the Ukranian Socce·r. touch 'someone's body before 1 . Experience\ and \Irish Hur mg, . game of \Frisbee\ - is not just a game of catch which allows guys to do all kind of tricks designed ·to impress some fair . dantsel whom he would like to put into distress. It is also not a: variation of football (known to pseudo- fanatics simply enough as frisbee football-positively vulgar to any legitimate frisbee fanatic.) hitting the ground.) American .Lacrosse, and Sumo 1' • During play, when one is Wrestling - Sanity vs. Customs trying to pass to a teammate in today's World. cutting into the op.en, he, is \Dr. Perdett has spent the last allowed only one step, or a 18 months working on a frisbee \pivot\, while he is throwing expose. He was so overcome with (exactly as in basketball.) The his introduction to the sport only contact allowed is in earnest (Exeter, August '69) that he has effort to get the frisbee, and must pledged full devotion to a now be accidental: The penalty fot rapidly expanding worid;.wide interference is a \do-over.\ There moving sport - all others is no tackling or blocking, but considered.\ O.K. - now d()wn to basics about the ga!Jl.e itself. Frisbee is a ., WRUC will have its first live remote of the year this Thursday, October 7, at 8:00 p.m. It will come from The Corner Tavern at 222 Front Street in Schenectady. All are invited to attend. FOR LIQUOR & WINE Try JAKE LIPSTEIN'S 464 State Street FR 4-1888 Making Love IS Great. Making Her Pregnant lsnt. Face it. \Be prepared\ isn't just for Boy Scouts. If you really care about your life and hers, you'll take precautions to prevent an accidental pregnancy. By using a condom. One of today's new condoms ... so highly reliable yet so exquisitely sensitive that you no longer have to sacrifice pleasure for safety. Worry·free sex? Yes! So why run the risk of accidental pregnancy? Especially now that you can get famous-brand condoms privately-by mail-from Popu- lation Planning Associates. The 11 top brands we offer have been carefully selected from the more than 100 available today. AU are electronically t1!Sted and meet rigorous FDA standards. Choose from the Fetherlite from England, thinnest and most ex· citing to use, with .. Sensitol\ lubrication for extra enjoyment. Or the NuFonn, also from England, pre-shaped for a unique new sensation. Or the famous Trojan. Or the well~known and popular Sultan. And many more. Fast Delivery-Money-Back Guarantee Discover our fast, low-cost service by sending just $5 fc,>r a deluxe sampler pack of 18 assorted condoms·-3 each of 6 different brands, including the Fetherlite and the NuFonn-plus an illustrated bro· chure describin~r our eomplet.e selection. Or send just $1 and get 3 English brands: 2 Fetherlites and 1. NuFonn, pl~ the b~oohure. All orders are filled the same day recmved and sent 111 a plam pack- • L~:_~~~~ ~n=~~~ ~!;~~~o!:_ ---- _ j I u~l I Population Plannlntt Assm:iates 1 105 Mortll C&luMbia name (pleasQ print! I 1 Chapel Hm, lf.C. ~75t4 I Pleas«! tush me in plain pac~agei . address I I 0 Deluxe sampler pack of 18 as- 1 · sOrted condoms plus brochure, $5. city state 1 I 0 2 Fetherlites, l Nuform, plus . O I 1 Dr'ochure, $1. C 2 3 1 1 enclose payment in full. If not zip · I delighted, I illaY' return unused . 0 Please send free illustrated broohure 1 I portioo ot order for full refund, · only, withOilt any obligation whatever • .J -~~~------~~~--~----~-~~~

'~ i ·I l 'I, Fall VARSITY FOOTBALL Ilead Coach - Jerry Everling Assistants - Bruce Wheeler Arthur Lawrence September- 18 Worcester Poly A 2:00 p.m. · 25 St. Lawrence H 1:30 p.m. October- 2 Alfred A 1:30 p.m. 9 Rochester H 1:30 p.m. (Homecoming) 16 R.P.I. A 1:30 p.m. 23 Hobart H 1:30 p.m. 30 Williams A 1:30 p.m. November- 6 Middlebury A 1:30 p.m. 13 Hamilton H 1:30 p.m. FRESHMAN FOOTBALL Coach - R. Bruce Allison October- 8 Trinity A 3:00p.m. 15 Middlebury H 2:00p.m. 22 HVCC H 2:00p.m. 29 R.P.I. H 2:00 p.m. November- 5 Utica College A 2:00 p.m. Sports VARSITY SOCCER Coach - Robert Mc~1urray October- 6 Trinity 9 Rochester 13 Hamilton 16 R.P.I. 20 Hobart 23 Colgate 27 Kings Point 30 Middlebury Novem.ber- 2 Hartford 6 Albany State A 3:00 p.m. A 2:30 p.m. H 2:30 p.m. A 11:30 a.m. H 2:30p.m. H 2:00 p.m. A· 3:00p.m. A 2:00 p.m. H 2:00 p.m. H 1:00 p.m. FRESHMAN SOCCER Coach - WH!iam Scanlon October- g Albany State 16 R.P.I. (J. V.) 19 Sch'dy. C.C. 22 Oneonta 26 Colgate 30 Middlebury November- 2 Albany State (J.V.) H 12:00 Noon A 11:30 a.m. A 3:30p.m. H 2:30p.m. H 2:.30 p.m. A 2:00p.m. A 3:00p.m. Sked CONCORDIENSIS, OCT. 5, 1971 CROSS COUNTRY Coach - Chris Gentile Octoher- 5 Williams 9 Trinity 16 H.P.I. 19 .\liddkbury 2.2 Hamilton :27 Oneonta :30 Albany Imitational Xon?mber- A .'3: .'30 p.m. H 12:00 ;\;oon A 12: .'3() p.m. A .3: .30 p.m. II .'3: :30 p.m. H 4:00p.m. 3 Siena H 4:00 p.m. 6 X.Y. State Champs at R.P.I. Page7 r~ 'Exclusive: Frisbees Float ., ; Onto Touch Football's Field ., ! l 1 by DR. ARNOLD PERDETT s. The young wayfarer's daydreams were brutally shattered with the crash of a genuine leather Billy Wade NFL football careening on past his now aching skull. The moans told the story ·- another kickoff punted off the side of the foot and squibbed out of bounds, the fourth in a row. One team couldn't kick and the other refused to take the ball where it went out - hoping to run one back in true Jon Arnett fashion. The wayfarer retrieved the ball in mock diligence and settled down on the wall running between Fox and Davidson to watch this immortal gridiron dash. The combatants had emerged earlier from the hollowed halls of those two great residence halls, specializing in the breeding of fantasizing young :-.lamaths and Warfields, and an occasional Lem Barney. This vear however, there would be \no Beta to shatter those grand illusions; reality would never intrude. A few minutes of watching dulled the journeyman's senses enough for him to go back to sleep. Even with a gazelle-like ·R.A. picking off passes on defense. and a strong armed QB specializing in long spirals to ,, someone known only as the \Elmira Flash\ the game quickly lapsed into the same rut of boredom that has beset virtually every other contest of its kind in old U-Coll. Basically, the quality of Union College touch football has dipped below all expectations, and as a result, this season appears to be the year in which . ; \Frisbee\ cracks the · U-Coll j scene. \Frisbee\ -- the official game of \Frisbee\ - is not just a • ; game of catch which allows guys i to do all kind of tricks designed . ! to impress some fair damsel ; Whom he would like to put into ·; distress. It is also not a variation j of football (known to pseudo- ; fanatics simply enough as frisbee ; football-positively vulgar to any i legitimate frisbee fanatic.) O.K. - now down to basics . about the game itself. Frisbee is a game in which there are two contending squads usually consisting of about seven people on each team. The game is coed but the better players have always proved to be males (not being chauvinistic, but realistic.) The field can be just about any dimension, but preferably its length should be roughly I 00 yards while the width is determined by natural boundaries, creeks, railroad tracks, etc. There are end zones at each end of the field and those, too, have no limit to their length except for natural boundaries. The only equipment is a Master Tournament_J0Qdel Frisbee (black or white.) No players wear anything special for protection or aid of any sort. The object of the game is to move the frisbee from one end of the field across your opponent's , goal line. The frisbee can only be moved by passes, and there is no running with the frisbee allowed. When a pass is intercepted by a defender intercept in the end zone, or if a pass is broken up in the end zone, the defending team is allowed to initiate play from their goal line. There is no sport like frisbee at all, although there are aspects similar to other games. There is a pseudo-kickoff at the games start and after each score. The kickoff is accomplished by heaving the Frisbee down the field to where the other team is lined up in anticipation. The \throw-off' does not have to be caught by the receiving team, but should an attempt be made and bungled, the team which threw off gets the frisbee where it was dropped (to be '~dropped\ the frisbee must touch someone's bod} before hitting the ground.) During play, when one is trying to pass to a teammate cutting into the open, he . is allowed only one step, or a \pivot\, while he is throwing (exactly as in basketball.) The only contact allowed is in earnest effort to get the frisbee, and must be accidental. The penalty for interference is a \do-over.\ There is no tackling or blocking, but the only \penalty\ for such actions is scorn from one's peers. The sport of Frisbee was originated by a group of fanatics in Ann Arbor, Michigan, in 1967. The original group of fans has since grown into an international frisbee association (denoted by the letters I. F. A., often seen on the back of frisbees), and is sponsored by the Wham-0 Frisbee Corporation. Besides a national tournament held each year, high school teams are springing up around the country. New Yersey has an actual scholastic league while Princeton and the University of Michigan are among the colleges fielding a team. What are the chances of frisbee invading Union? Are the hallowed halls of old U-College ready for a game in which anybody can play, and in which players are not involved in dismembering others? Can thev involve themselves in a true team sport, in which an individual can stand out but not control the action by his lonesome (a Ia every other \team sport,\ including soccer)? If anybody male or female would like to play frisbee and or learn more about the game, he can drop in on this campus' resident I.F.A. representative, Marty Berman. in room 251 Davidson South (377-2738 or Box ft 749.)\Keep'em\ flying. About the Author Dr. Arnold S. Perdett is a native of Nashville, Tenn., who periodically tours the countr) and writes down his reactions to the nation's sports scene. Among his past works include \The Connecticut Valley's Response to t h e U k rani an Soc c e·r Experience\ and \Irish Hurling, American Lacrosse, and Sumo Wrestling -- Sanity vs. Customs in Today's World. \Dr. Perdett has spent the last 18 months working on a frisbee expose. He was so overcome with his introduction to the sport (Exeter, August '69) that he has pledged full devotion to a now rapidly expanding world-wide moving sport all others considered.\ WRUC will have its first live remote of the year this Thursday, October 7, at 8:00 p.m. It will come from The Corner Tavern at 222 Front Street in Schenectady. All are invited to attend. FOR LIQUOR & WINE Try JAKE LIPSTEIN'S 464 State Street FR 4-1888 Making Love Is Great .. Making Her Pregnant Isn't. Face it. \Be prepared\ isn't just for Boy &outs. lf you rea!ly care about your life and hers, you'll take precautions to prevent ar1 accidental pregnancy. By using a condom. One of today's new condoms ... so highly reliable yet so exquisitely sensitive that you no longer have to sacrifice pleasure fo-r safety. Worry-free sex? Yes! So why run the risk of accidental pregnancy? Especially now that you can get famous-brand condoms privately-by mail-from Popu- lation Planning Associates. The 11 top brands we offer have been carefully selected from the more than 100 available today. All are electronically tested and meet rigorous FDA standards. Choose from the Fetherlite from England, thinnest and most ex- citing to use, with \Sensitol\ lubrication for extra enjoyment. Or the NuForm, also from England, pre-shaped for a unique new sensation. Or the famous Trojan. Or the well-known and popular Sultan. And many more. Fast Delivery-Money-Back Guarantee Discover our fast, low-cost service b.y sending just $5 for a deluxe sampler pack of 18 assorted condoms-3 each of 6 different brands, including the Foatherlite and the NuForm-plus an illustrated bro· chure describing our complete selection. Or send just $1 and get 3 Rnglish brands: 2 Fetherlites and 1 NuForm, plus the brochure. All orders are filled the same day received and sent in a plain pa.ek- . L~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~------J I CC-51 I Population Planninat Associates 1 105 North Columbia name (ploose orin!) I 1 Chapel Hill, N.C. 27514 I Please rush me in plain package: address I I D DeluKe sampler pack of 18 as- 1 sorted condoms plus brochure, $5. city state 1 I o 2 Fetherlites, I Nuform, plus I 1 6tochure, $1. C 2 3 0 1 I enclose payment in full. If not zip ·\' I delighted, I may return unused 0 Please. send free illu~tra~ed brochure I I portion of order for full refund. only, wsthout any oblrgatron 1vhatever . .J ~------------------------

. Page 8 CONCORDIENSIS, OCT. 5,1971, Concordy Sports Saxon Horde Conquers Garnet Gridders by LEAPIN Supposedly, it was a battle of. blue-chip teams. The young and enthusiastic Union Garnet, under the direction of rookie coach Gerry Everling, visited a comparatively veteran Alfreo contingent on Sat\lrday. The Saxons are coached by Alex Yunevich, the same man who teamed with All-American center Art Lawrence, now offensive line and baseball coach at Union, at Purdue in 1932. Yunevich has been head football coach at Alfred for 31 years. Age Before Beauty Needless to say, age came before beauty as the hosts shut out the Dutchmen for the second straight time. However, an improved Saxon offense put 35 points on the board on Saturday (as against a mere seven last year) versus a weakened Garnet defense. The 72 points scored ag!;\inst Union in three games this season are one less than the number given up in last year's first seven games. · Union~ Saxons . . Union received the opening kickoff but was forced to punt by an Alfred defense that yielded· only 136 total yards. Despite the fact that the Saxons took over oil their own four, they began the rout 13 plays later. Hank Bzdak sophomor-e halfback, scored hi~ first of two six-pointers, from the 12. The dock indicated that ~xactly six minutes had expired m the game as Don Hockenberry booted his first of five PAT's and, for all intents and purposes, that was it. Watch Saxons Score In less than four minutes, the Garnet received the kick, punted, and watched the Saxons score again. This 70-yard drive took only five plays, because Jimmy Moretti hit Charlie Young for the score from 47 yards out and it was 14-0. Union started again from its 26, and 28 yards and one quarter later, was forced to punt once more. A ten-yard punt gave Alfred the pigskin on its 36. Nine plays later, the inevitable happened. Moretti, who on the day completed nine of 18 passes for 189 yards and carried for 66 yards in 13 tries, scored from the one. But the half was far from over. The final score in Union's last victory, over St: lAwrence on September 25. The Garnet will be hard pressed in this Saturday's Homecoming game against Rochester to pull off another such feat. On the basis ofits 49-25 win last Saturday over Williams, the Yellowjackets will be formidable opponents and should solidify an already strong hold on the No. 1 ranking in the state sportswriters'poll. Union First Downs .JO Rushing Yardage 51 Passing Yardage 85 Return Yardage 200 Alfred 26 308 189 After holding the Dutchmen at bay, the Saxons took over on their own 37. On third-and-two, Moretti hit Young on a 48-yard pass to the Garnet nine, and two plays later, Bzdak, the game's leading rusher with 93 yards in 20 carries, scored from the three. Alfred had four touchdowns and 28 points to show for its first tour sets of downs. stood, Alfred 28, Union 0. them a total .of 497 yards gained. The Saxons hope to cut down on Rochester's big lead in the race for supremacy in New .York State, for the Yellowjackets had some difficulty on Saturday before scorirtg four touchdowns in the final quarter of its 49-25 win over Williams. Passes 8-20..0 Fumbles Lost 0 Punts 9-36 Yards Penalized 10 SpMi~, JfiJIIile 8 9-19-0 0 5-40 140 It was then that Union decided to play ball. The offense went on a last-minute tear that climaxed with a pass interference call against Alfred with no time left in the half. Siilce a half cannot end on a penalty, Union had one more play from the Saxon six. But Bobby Mitchell's pass to \Cooter\ ·Utecht in the end zone was incomplete, and the score Alfred took Union's second- half kickoff on' its 20 and Moretti got his second touchdown on a ~hree-yard run after nine plays. Union took the Saxons' subsequent kickoff on its 37. The Garnet mounted a drive to the Alfred 18, where an early snap on fourth-and-one spelled failure, frustration, and worst of all, shutout. Alfred's 308 yards rushing gave .'Jackets Invade Saturday Tuesday's Topics with WOODY Perhaps it would be cynical to say that Sunday's attendance by members of the Union community - that includes students, faculty, and staff - at the Central Park bicycle meeting lived up to my Seven Game Slate Awaits Optimistic Freshmen Boot Meanwhile,· things should get worse before they get better for Union, as the Garnet eleven plays host to, you ;,guessed it, the Rochester Yellowjackets, on Saturday at Alexander Fie)d at 1:30. Wanted MORE Freshman Customers Dambrose Cleaners expectations. Three people responded to the invitation, and that's a paltry number. Probably it was the unusual extra effort that is required in going a mile off campus that prevented more people from riding up. I'd hate to think that a Union College bicycle club was the victim of old UCol apathy. * * * \' It is interesting to note that the ten teams on the 1971 football schedule played each other last weekend. While Alfred embarrassed the Garnet 35-0, this Saturday's Homecoming opponent, Rochester, crushed Williams, 49-25. You better believe that the Dutchmen are preparing for the likes of Rich Parrinello and Tom Jarrett, who also own a 39-0 decision over Hamilton. On Saturday, the RPI passing machine ripped hapless Hamilton 48- 7, with Engineer quarterbacks completing an incredible 29 of 47 passes attempted, for 374 yards. Bob Baron connected on 26 passes, an RPI single game record, and four of these were for touchdowns. Meanwhile, Middlebury disposed of Worcester Tech, 35-17, and Hobart outla~ted St. Lawrence (remember them?), 28-24. So the prospects for the Garnet do not appear good for the rest of the season. With a little bit of luck, they will finish the season at the hoped-for 5-4, with victories over RPi, Hobart, and Hamilton. \' * * * One of fall's \other\ sp.otts, soccer, opens its season tomorrow with Trinity at Hartford. And if you think Union soccer is bad, last year, after 18 consecutive winning seasons, the Bantams suffered through a dismal 0-8-l campaign. The Dutchmen were 2-7-1 in 1970. Like Union, Trinity needs to pep up its offense to improve itself this year and will be a good initial test for the Dutchmen, who are seeking their first winning season since 1958. After another road game ~ Saturday at Rochester, now the home of former head coach Gary Brown ~ the home season opens next Wednesday, October 9, against Hamilton. * * \' * How about some baseball awards? Vida Blue and Henry Aaron, if not Frank Robinson and Willie Stargell, for MVP, and Mickey Lolioh and Fergie Jenkins for Cy Young award winners - even i£ Tom Seaver is still the best pit¢llerlP. baseball. <', • ·•· • ,j by FRANK DeLUCIA Whenever a team is riding a crest of. unmarred success, optimism normally prevails. So it can be said of Coach Bill Scanlon's freshman hooters. Undefeated if untested, the Garnet frosh open their usual tough slate against Albany State on Saturday at 12:00 noon on Garis Field. The schedule also lists road games at RPl (JV) and Schenectady CC, Oneonta and Colgate at home,. with Middlebury and Albany State (JV) away. With less than two weeks of pre-season preparation, State should. constitute a formidable foe for the green Garnet yearlings. But feat not, fans, for no air of concession lingers about Union lockers. Playing coach rather than Trio Captains '71 Run:ners Dave ·Rice, a a senior from Seattle, Wash., Bryant Moeckel, a senior from Painesville, Ohio, and Tim McCabe, a junior from Woodcliff Lake, N.J., have been elected captains of the 1971 cross country team at Union College. The three will lead Union into its season•s opener Oct. 5 at Williams. clairvoyant, Scanlon refuses to be pinned by any prediction saying only that if there is a field available, his Dutchmen will meet the enemy. 1517 Vanvranken Ave. We Clean Everything STOCK UP FOR HOMECOMING WEEKEND LOWEST LIQUOR AND WINE PRICES IN N.Y. STATE at M,offet's Liquor Store CORNER OF VANVRANKEN AVENUE GET YOUR CHILLED WINES EARLY FOR THE .ROCHESTER GAME •Fof\· three · Cen•atJJJ~r•~.,. Those- W.~Know .• - .. Have -bcten tecommending - HERSll!L MAURICE B· WALTER,~ \3 Union Graduates fn·Graubart Family\ 166 JAY ST. FOR HONEST SERtVICiE AND GOOD .EWELR1 .,

on -25 get for the on at Founded at Union College· 1877 .. Volume 101, Number 5 SCHENECTADY, . NEW YORK OCTOBER 8, 1971 PR!CE TWENTY CENTS ..... ' -- . ' ' -· Buyer's Guide Has Set Off Area Campus Controversy Students Restore Old Electric Car A group of Union students have formed to begin the task of restoring the 1914 Detroit Electric • once owned and operated by Uni.on's electrical engineering department founder, Charles P. Steinmetz. The group's aim is to refurbish the antique vehicle into the same immaculate condition as in the days when the late professor could be s.een driving it. mechanical work, including research for technical information, acquisition .of missing parts, and photography. This last aspect may seem odd, but every nut and bolt will be labeled and pliotographed before removal~ as an aid in reassembly. The Steinmetz Car Restorers will be meeting at 8 p.m. on October 12, at Delta Chi. Interested students are invited to attend. Those students unable to attend, but willing to lend a hand can contact Prof. Hoffman (S & E building) or either Mal Donald or Gary Maines at 346-9973. The Student Buyer's Guide, a . non-student publication being j introduced for the first time this year, is now being distributed on thirteen local campuses. The Guide, which is composed almost exclusively of advertisements, is published by DAC Enterprises, headed by David A,. Cavanaugh. Cavanaugh worked last year for the Associated College Media Company, responsible for advertisements in several local campus papers, including Concordiensis. However, after the publication of the first issl:le of The Guide, there was considerable and ·adverse reaction among students at several area institutions. At Siena, a decision to ban the publication from campus is currently pending in their Student Senate, and at RPI the publication has already been banned, and its distribution on campus prohibited. A brief background into the controversy might be in order. When Cavanaugh became involved With Concordiensis in Fall, 1970, he raised our advertising rates, on the premise that the increased revenue the ACM would bring to us would compensate for the increased rate. Now, that he is printing. his own newspaper, he has carefully Built by the Anderson Car Co. oJ Detroit, this electric is believed to be one of only twelve Detroits remamtng of the 4000 manufactured in 1914. When new, the car sold for about $3000 and thus was considered a luxury in its day. Cruising speed was between 15-20 miles per hour with a range of about 40 miles before recharging became necessary. This vehicle, among three cars owned by Steinmetz, was considered his favorite and has several of the professor's own modifications. New Draft Bill Passed; Lottery Ceiling At 125 Union acquired this relic through the efforts of a student who heard that the car was lying idle in the iminediate area. Actual arrangement~ between the college and the owner were handled by Prof. Hoffman, who is advisor to the group. There are many aspects of the restoration job besides the actual Two weeks ago, Congress passed the long-debated Draft Extension Bill, extending the draft until at least June, 1973. With all the recent changes in the Selective Service System, there have been many misunderstandings and ambiguities concerning the new stipulations of the Selective Service Act. In terms of student (2-S) deferments, those students who entered college for the first time ·Jerry Jarvis ''Expounds\; Creative Intelligence Lives Last Tuesday's convocation was the first convocation that I did not have to suffer through an hour's worth of \ahs\ and \uhs.\ After Peter Erskine's introduction; Jerry Jarvis spoke on the Science of Creative Intelligence which is specifically concerned with the educative process and with every day life. . He pointed· out the· current world-wide dissatisfaction with the present educational process. The most fundamental need: the desire for education. Satisfaction of this desire is being overlooked. The \aha!\ experience is presently lacking and without the blissful experience of knowing education and life are meaningless. Mr. Jarvis subscribes to the monistic school of thought, wherein man's basic nature is unchanging and all change is relative. Therefore, our knowledge is not defective but our perceptions must change. By way of his flat earth analogy, he illustrated how the perceptual experiences of learning become enlarged and more profound. The Science of Creative Intelligence satisfies both the experiencial and intellectual needs of man. Through the experience of the simple, natural technique of transcendental meditation, the faculties are extended to their ultimate development. Intellectually S.C.l.'s systematic conceptual delineation of life and experience satisfies rigorous investigation. Together they are the fulfillment of the educative process and the key to satisfaction. In summary, the five premises of the Science of Creative Intelligence are: 1. conceptual delineation 2. empirical definition 3. scientific verification 4. practical application and 5. holistic application to life and education. this fall (i.e. freshmen) do not qualify for student deferments. However, all students who are beyond their freshman year may continue to renew their deferments as long as they .are undergraduate students, and continue to make satisfactory progress in their programs of study. Curtis W. Tarr, Director of the Selective Service System, claims that few of the incoming freshmen are likely to be inducted in the near future, because most of them,. at age 18, are not gojng to be assigned lottery numbers until 1972 and will not be eligible for drafting untill973. Students will not be drafted in the middle of a semester or term, and if in their senior year, they will be allowed to postpone their induction until after graduation. Last Tuesday, the Selective Service system announced that its ceiling for callup numbers in the Random Number Sequence (RNS) for the remainder of this year will be the number 125. This means that any man born in 1951, and possessing a lottery number above 125 may forfeit his deferment by December 31, 1971 and will not be called into service unless there is a national emergency. The Department of Defense announced last week that there will be a callup of 10,000 men for the remainder of this year. This represents a decrease from the original expectation of 15,000 draftees from now to December 31. Corresponding to this Continued on Pa:2e 2 calculated his own advertising rates to be lower than those of all college papers, and especially, lower than those that he raised while working for ACM last year. At Albany State, Jeff Rodgers, Business Manager of the Albany Student Press, circulated a letter among the local newspapers and Student Body Presidents in which he charged the Guide with distributing on some local campuses without permission of school authorities (this is not the case, however, at Union}. In that letter, Rodgers reiterates the Guide's primary advertising pitch that advertisers are better off advertising in the Guide rather than in the local college papers because the rates are lower. At RPI, on the other hand, more drastic actions were taken. In a letter to Cavanaugh, the Editor-in-Chief of the Polytechnic, Jack Tai, said \Be it advised that your publication ... will no longer be welcomed or permitted to be circulated on the Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute campus... You and · your publi.cation have done irreparable harm to the financial structure of the college newspapers in the Capital District.\ An additional letter from the Polytechnic was sent to Troy advertisers. In this piece, the editors admonish the retailers that \the buyer's guide is not authorized to be distributed on the RPI campus ... You may be interested to know that many ... of the colleges in the area - to which DAC claims the guide is distributed are bringing actions to prevent future distributions of this Guide on their campus .. .It is our feeling that (DAC]. has deliberately misled you by offering you incorrect information about the circulation and readership (of the Guide).\ Neither the Student Senate nor Co~cordiensis has reached any decision concerning fnrmal action against the Guide and its distribution here. Any action which might be taken is pending the results of an attempt to accrue further information dealing with related proceedings at other area schools. Elections. will be held Monday, October 11 for The . All College Senate and the Board of Trustees.. Students · Hving on Campus may vote in · their living units through their student Senators between 7:00 ~nd 11:30 ,P.M. Off · campus residents may vote in the Student A vtivities office between 8:30 A.M. and 4:30 P.M. Monday. Due to the large number of candidates, a · run-off election will be held on Tuesday night. All students are eligible to vote in both elections. Balloting will . be conducted in the donns · and houses on Tuesday night between 7:00 and 11:30 P.M. Off campus residents may · vote in the Student Activities : .office on Tuesday between 8:30 A.M .. and 4:30 P.M .. Any voter with questions should contact David Robbins at 377-0804. Ciuic Players Open Season With Two Vonnegut Dramas Schenectady Civic Players open their season on October 16 With two one-act plays by famed author/playwright, Kurt Vonnegut, Jr, The as yet unpublished comedies are adapted from two short stories, \Who Am I This Time?\ and \EPICAC\ and are included in V onnegut's collection, \Welcome to the Monkey House.\ The works being produced exclusively by Schenectady Civic Players are much in the style Vonnegut employs in his lengthier pieces. They are, however, of a milder, gentler nature and reflect Mr. V onnegut's wit as well as his concern for his fellow creatures. · \EPICAC\ is the love story of a computer, while \Who Am I This Time?\ deals with a unique problem encountered within a fictional amateur little theater group. Arrangetnents for producing the comedies were negotiated earlier this season by Playhouse members, Fulvia and Bill Hickman, following a chance vacation encounter with Mr. Vonnegut's wife, Jane. Production of the plays is scheduled for October 16-23. Robert Lauterborn directs a cast including Joe Kilgallen, Red Sutton, Eileen Rosen, William McDaniel .and Jack Bryson in \EPICAC\; and Sandy Hallfors, - - Charles J. Hepburn, Owen South and Bethia Vernon in \Who Am I This Time?\ Kurt Vonnegut, Jr., was born and raised in Indianapolis. In 1940 he entered Cornell University, and in his junior year enlisted in the army. Captured by the Germans, he was held in a slaughterhouse in Dresden, .. ~ \. Germany. While captive in the slaughter- house, he witnessed the destruction of the city by the allied forces, and it was from this experience that some twenty years later he wrote . what is probably his most powerful and popular novel, \Slaughterhouse Five.\ Following World War II, Mr. Vonnegut came to work for General Electric and spent time as a public relations man in Schenectady. His first book, \Player Piano,\ published in 1952, is an account of life in the More on Page 2 CONCERT The Social Committee presents \The Flying Burrito Brothers,\ a country-rock group in concert TONIGHT at 8:30 in Memorial Chapel. Tickets will be s<>ld at the door, for $4. A & M records will record the concert live for the group's fourth album.

. - Page 2 CONCORDIENSIS, OCT. 8, 1971 Two-Hand Backhand; Part One Chrissie E oert t Forest .HiUs Managing Editor Doug Wong Asst. Managing Editor Gail w. Goodman Contributing Editors William Holleran Mike Meserole · Editor·in•Chief Louis S. Snitkoff Features Editor Matthew Swartz Sports Editor George S. Bain Business Manager Joseph. Achenbaum Photography Editors Jody Saslow jNational Advt. Manager Charles Long . Mark Shulman A.ssoc. Photography Editor. Subscriptions Managet Dave Conrey Michael Hurley STAFF: Don Kaplan, Rita Morandi, Barbara McDonald, Patty Sipe; Richard Kern, Gary (Leapin') Leid!lrman, Marty Berman, Mark Mindel, Frank DeLucia, AI Reisch, Bob Johnson, Jim Rostenberg, Chris Mandeville, Barbara McDonald, Les Goldman, Rosemary !(ice. By .MIKE MESEROLE A year ago this past Se'ptember, after completing the Grand Slam of tennis with a victory in the U.S. Open at Forest Hills, Margaret Court was beaten in straight sets (6 .. 7, 6-7) by a fifteen year old girl in a tournament down in Charlotte, North Carolina. The upset didn't cause much of a stir in the New York papers, after all, CoUrt was pretty emotionally drained from her Open win and the match was only on clay not grass. That didn't phase this bo)' at all, 'I was quick to enlighten any and all acquaintances here at Union that this 15 year old ·phenom was my coustn. Published Tuesdays and Fridays during the school year by the student body of Union College, Schenectady, N.Y., National Advertising Representative, National Educational Advertising Service, Inc., College Publishers Representative,360 Lexington Ave., N.Y.C. Editorial office, Old Gym, Union College. Publication Office, The World Publications, 771 State Street, Schenectady, N.Y. 12307, 346-2356. Entered in the Schenectady post office as Second Class Mail Matter. Subscription 20 cents a copy.$8 a year delivered anywhere in the United States.'\ \Oh yeah,\ stretched Emerson Martin, after receiving the news in custo.mary, unrestrained '------------------------- ...... ...J enthusiasm, ''wha'd you say her Fraternity M,isconception The content of the many letters we have received in response to the \Fraternity Rush\ editorial in the last issue reveals an unfertunate misconception which is apparently shared by many fraternity brothers on campus. · The overwhelming sentiment of the letters seemed to indicate that many brothers view Concordy as the \independent's\ publication trying to spread the \anti-fraternity murmurings\ throughout the college community. This most definitely not the intent. An invitation to submit to Concordy information concerning fraternity life was extended to the members of the Inter-Fraternity Council at their meeting late last month. In the two weeks which followed, we receiv:ed no reply or information. We had hoped that the fraternities· would take adyantage of this invitation to acquaint the freshmen with the fraternal way of life. The sole intent of the editorial in the last issue was to emphasize the importance of the annual. rush, which was previously unpublicized in Concordy. We answer those who -- charge us with failing to present both sides of the issue by citing the failure of the IFC members to respond to our invitation. If nothing else, the editorial accomplished the task of bringing out into the open the dichotomy which exists between the fraternities and the independent students on campus - a dichotomy which need not exist. In an attempt to correct this situation, we propose that Concordy be used as an open forum for the presentation of fraternity and independent viewpoints. We again emphasize that this endeavor can not be carried out successfully without cooperation and participation of members frQm both factions. The first of these open forums will be in the next issue, Tuesday, October 12. We invite all members of the college community to submit articles to be used in this series. All material may be submitted in the Coneordy mailbox in the Student Activities Office. We would appreciate it if all copy is typewritten. Anyone wishing to personally discuss these issues can contact Doug Wong at 346-9735 (Phi Sigma Kappa) or Lou Snitkoff, 393-0086 (321 Davidson). Policy Statement D.W., L.S.S. Because of the size of the Editorial BQard, we feel that it is not possible for the newspaper as an entity to take a stand on any particular issue. For this reason, the editorials printed in each issue reflect only the opinions of those whose initials appear at the conclusions thereof. In the future, because of our limited staff, we are forced to request that all blithers and Letters to the Editor be typed. exhibition and sale origin~ I graphICS purchases may be charged UNION COLLEGE FOX HOUSE LOUNGE . Monday, Oct. 11 12 Noon to 8 P.M. CHAGALL, BASKIN, ROUAULT, DAUMIER AND MANY OTHERS ARRANGED BY FERDINAND ROTEN GALLERIES BALTIMORE, MARYLAND name was?\ \Chris Evert,\ I said, \and don't you forget it, Emo. She~s great, destined for the spoils of Forest Hills. Want me to spell her name for ya?\ \Hell no, dammit, I want you to get out of my. room and let me sleep!\ Twelve months later~ Chris Evert was the biggest name in tennis and everyone was happy. The New York press was happy • because Chrissie's Cinderella story was great copy, sports fans were happy because Chris was a fresh face and one hellava tennis player, the directors of the U.S. Open were happy because Chris saved...the tourney from financial disaster, and Emo Martin was happy because he'd been tipped off a year ahead of time as to what was going to happen. What happened, in case you haven't seen a newspaper or television in the past two and a half months, is that inside of fifty days this su!lllller Chris won the National Girls' 18 and Under Championships in Philadelpl1ia, led the United States women's team past Virginia Wade and Great Britain, in Cleveland, to win the Wightman Cup - a pel'formance that earned her the most valuable player award, defeated Australia's Helen Gourlay in straight sets to win the Eastern Grass Court Championship in Orange, New Jersey, and reached the semi- finals at Forest Hills before Draft Bill Continued from Page 1 reduction, is a decrease in' the ceiling number from 140 to the current figure of 125. Those who will be called this year, as a result of the current status of the draft will be mostly those who have lost their deferments because they graduated from college this past June. BLOW YOUR·· SElf UP1:. TO. POSTER,SIZE ; - A great gift or gag Idea. Ideal room decoration ••• perfect for parties. Send any b&w or color photo, Polaroid print, cartoon or magazine photo. For slides and negatives, add $1.00 per poster. Better originals ------• produce better posters. - Giant b&w poster mailed in tube. 1 1 /2 X .2 Ft. $2.50 - 3 X 4 ft. $7.50 BLOW-.UPS IN PSVC~EDELIC COLOR. Any photo mademto a poster m psychedelic Red Graen Blue or Yellow. Only In 1¥2 x 2 ft. @ $3.50 and 2 x 3· ft.@ $4.50. Specify desired color. RUSH SERVICE orders Shipped In 1 day by lust class ma1l Add ~2 per poster ordered. YO\' • I returne~ undamaged, .Add SOb for ·postage and nanoung lor EACH 1 t•m ordered N.Y. residents add sales tax. Send. check, .cash or M 0. (No C.O.D.) to: BLO-UP, Dept. ooo, _ . 210 E, 23 St., N.Y 6 10010 ~ losing to Billie Je.aJl King, ending stadium court for a Labor Day a consecutive victory streak that weekend match with Mary Ann stood at an amazing 46. Eisle, whe ranked fourth on ·the It was at Forest Hills, of U.S. women's ladder. Bef<)re the course, that national attention ~atch, . the gallery was buzzing sudd¢nly focused on Chris. ·The in anticipation Qf seeing the kid U.S. Open found itself devoid of sensation, with the fain()ti~ two- such name men's players as handed backhand shot, whom Laver, Roche, Emerson, .the press had dubbed \Little Drysdale, and defending champ Miss Sunshine.\ M~y Ann may Ken Roswall, and without have .b~en ranked #4,. but the women's stars Margaret Court, crowd had come to see (}hrissie. the reigning Open- queen, and If tbe. gallery was expecting Wimbledon champion Evonne anotber straight set Iaugher for Goolagong. Forest Hills needed a Chris, they were in for a .surprise. meal tick~::t bat;lly, to ~ke the .After the first ten games, Eisle knowledgeable New York area had won the fu:st .set, ~4. After tennis community come out and eleven more, Clui~ traJ,ied Mary see who was playing instead of Ann by 6~5. Suddenly, Eisle had $taying borne and lamenting over match. point at 40-love,. and the who wa~ not. stad.iuni :was like a tomb, it was The Open brass had to gaDlble, , onl~ ~;30 in the .afternoon but it expecially . 'when they ·turned looked, Jike ... midnigbt (or aroun·d and found ·that ·Cinderella. · Wimbledon winner J ohli _ La~e-: . that night,_ on the Newcombe .had been eliminated · telephone, Chri$ s$.d tha~ all she in tlu.~ fttst round. They put their could think of as she. faced money on 16 year old amateur elill').ination was, \how J'q' walk . Chris Evert. In her very first off th~ court, whether to smile or Forest Hills match, Chrissie was what.\ As it turned out shedi,dn•t scheduled to play in the ivy- have to worry. Fighting off, six covered, 13,000 seat stadium, an match points, she won . ~he g~tme honor sought after by established and went' on :to defeat Eisle in the stars and practically non-existant ensuing tie-'breaker, taking the fer newcomers. set, 7-6. The crowd exp)oded and * * * * Midway up the sta,diurn bleachers in Section 7, there was this 8 year old kid, decked out in shocking . yellow pants and jacketed in madras, with an official Planters Peanuts sun visor fastened around his crew· cut, who had one of the great analytical minds in sport; \Jeez mom, old Chrissie is really bombing her, huh?\ Morn, like . the other 9,000 spectators watching Chrissie's Forest Hills debut , could only grin a disbelieving smile as the girl from Ft. Lauderdale took on her first round opponent, 34 year old German pro Edda Buding, and \bombe.d\ her back to Deutschehllld, 6-1, 6-0~ That happened on a Thursday, just three days after Chris had won the Eastern Open, and stretched her winning streak to 43 straight matches. Tw9 days later she was back en the - . so did Chrissie, blowing Mary Ann off the court by winning six of the oext seven games and forging victory out of certain defeat. Incredible. Next, Francoise Durr. Tuesday: Part 1Wo - Frankie Durr,LesleyHunt,and Billie Jean. Chrissie encounters Jim Bouton, the author meets Heywood Hale Broun, and the Larchmont Mafia makes the scene in force. c·ivic Players Continued from Page 1 future' in a town called Ilium ~a thinly disguised Schenectady. Living in Schenectady made· a powerful impac't on Mr. Vonne:gilt and the -riame Schenectady; hardly a household word, crops up over and over in most of his novels. For information concerning the plays, call EX 3-8024. ·. BLITHER ·. There will bt;l an important meeting of all Junior Political Science Majors on Monday, October 11 at 4:30 in SS115. A department representative will be elected at that time. **** . . Anyone interested in organizing or participating in the Tour de U~on please .sign up in the Student Activities Offlce as soon as possible. **** This Saturday, Oct. 9, at 8:30 P.M. the Union College Coffee- house will present Rat and Kevin Courcey. Admission is 50¢ and coffee and donuts are - yes folks - FREE!! In the Old Chapel, *. ** The Student Wive's of Union College will hold their first meeting of . the year next Tuesday, Oct. 12 at 7:30 pm in the music toorn of the Library. Activities for the coming year will be discussed. **** Carver Community Day Care Center is seeking the services of a male student to work with twenty-five children (kindergar- ten to fifth grade). They will pay $1.75 an hour for up to thirty hours a week. Call Mary Gray (374-8456) or see Mr. Bryant in Old Gym Hall. **** ATTENTlON SENIORS - There will be a prcifessional photographer on ca m p u s November 9, 10, 11 and 12 to take all the senior po~r~is for .the yearbook. Please sign up for a time slot on the sheets provided in the Stud~nt Activities Office. This is the 'one an<t only time that senior port~;aits for the yearbook Will: ~be taken, ·_A $3. sitting fee. payable on the day the portrait is taken, is required. · **** FOOTBALL Conti~ued from Page 4 Union will no longer have to worry about being the state's #3 team. With· nothing to lose. the home team should be loose and ready to challenge the mi-ghty Goliath. On the other hand, the Yellowjackets own an 11-game winning streak going back to last season but had a relatively rocky ride to last week's 49-25 win over Williams. They secured the victory enly by scoring four touchdowns in the final period. After that kind of test against the highly .. regarded Ephmen, a lapse or let-down by Rochester is certainly not an impossibilit~. The game could be interesting, so check it out - at any rate, it's sure to be a typical Homecoming blast.

e it t, a y. a r. ld s 0 a is • 1~ To the Edltor: · In response · to the editoral . concerning Fraternities and their postioi.l on th~ c?llege. campu~, I feel· that certam. Important pomts should be made available to the student body and tQ the freshman in particular. Mr.· Snitkoff <J.l,Itistions the fraternity position in relation to the rest of campus. If we assume that the question tif academic excellance {sic) is. .of primary importance; than (sic) it should be rioted that in the last computed colleg~ index, the aU- Fraternity average was appro:~dmatdy 2:5 while the all- College inde'x was 2.3. Community action is one of the popular causes these days, and I wonder how many people rea'lize that the purpose of the Sigma Chi Clambake is to aid the orphans of Wallace Village. Environmental concern is another popular topic, ·and at this time the ·In1er-Frai:einity Council is involVed with the· PYE group 0 n campus to protect· the environment. · ,_ ' . On a more per~onai level, Psi Upsiion s'ponsored a cocktail partj · for tile women of the campus· to try to make the females a part of Union College. Mr. Snitkoff also questions tile social relevancy -of the fraternity. ·J· will agree that fraternity activities are not for everyone, · however I would like to remind the student body that Schenectady is nor the hl!b of New York State, and it certainly is convenient to have someplace for parties and social gatherings. In conclusion, I would like to say · that there are more to fraternities than beer .and a color T.V., but if kept in their proper perspectives these too can be a help and not a hindrance to individual development. · Tony Faga •73- Inter..:Fraternity Council Pres. * * .. \' To the Editor: Jh;mk you for another episode in the _ continuing epic \The Downfall of Fraternities\ as writte~. produced, and\ directed (as much as possible) by the Concordiensis editorial staff. Apparently you have not researched the topic as thoroughly as you usually do. As young adult society in America has changed .so has the nature of fraternites. While it is generally true that we may represent a more conservative viewpoint ru,rd life style, we are by no -means reactionary. Aside from the fact that he has openly and unashamedly formali;led his friendship and concern for those he lives with, the fraternity brother pursues 01uch the same goals and has roughly the same desires· as do his peers. Several individuals are attempting to pro~ulgate the myth that frat~r~ties at Onion are facsimiles of· those institutions portraye(r 1n movies like .. Gidget · does to Colleg~\ and \Beach Blanket Baccalaureate\. This m i s - conception might be -..due in part to the fact that fraternity men lean toward the more conventional means of fulfillment and self expression such as 1971 valedictorian Steve Pierce (Phi Gamma Delta), 1971 Athlete of the Year Dale Long (Chi Psi), and chairman of the Big Brother program John Calender (Phi Gamma Delta) to name just a few. Brothers are encouraged to work not only for the betterment of the house but also toward their ·personal development. Anyone who feels that fraternities in any way restrict one's independence or individuality has not seen our fraternity, nor most of the others on campus. .. Just as we realize that not all freshmen would be comfortable in any one frater-nity, we also Understand that not all freshmen are suited to any type of fraternity experience. During Rush we attempt to show• freshmen the kind of life we lead and let the individual decide. True, we still enjoy Monday night football on the color -tube with a few cold ones during the game. However we enjoy many other things as well. No apology is offered fq,r our various likes and dislikes, and we ask for no apologies from anyone else. No one is pressure<;! into accepting our life style, yet we reserve the right to not take l,lp the life style, yet we reserve the right to not take up the style of others. Moreover we heartily enjoy meeting freshmen (and upperclassmen) of kindred spirit and subsequently bringing them :into our brotherhood. · In short, fraternities 4o . offer freshmen the alternatives you speak of. We wmingly and freely discuss all aspects of the question. In direct contrast to your editorial which speaks only in the negative, we urge freshmen to be positive in their approach to life at Union. Despite its many faults, Union College can be an enjoyable .place, for both fraternity men and independents. Quite. naturally we feel our life style is the better one and hope that others will join us; but perhaps more importantly we hope that the constant negativism so prevalent on campus today (and typified in your remarks) will give way to a more \brotherly\ existence. Yours truly, WiDiam G. Kuchta President Phi Gamma Delta * * * * To the Editor: Upon first reading the unjustified piece of slander on fraternities in Tuesday's edition I felt that to reply would only add some dignity to it. However, I feel that it is so full of misconceptions · that -. ·reply is necessary. The first misconception is the \beer and color TV\ charge. Obviously the writer of the editorial is suffering from a lack of - first-hand knowledge. My fraternity has a color TV and, on occasion, beer on tap. No brother here, nor most likely one in any house, considers that the main facet of the fraternity. A fraternity is a group of individuals living and working together. There is natuqtlly a socia.l side but the largest part of a fraternity, perhaps to the dismay of the editorial's author, is quite similar to any independent group. The fraternity does, however, have the advantage of a separate house for cultura-l and educational events. Once a week ·my house invites ·a professor -for dinner and dtscussion. Several times a year we have a symposium on some topic of timely interest that is op_en to the entire community. At Thanksgiving and Easter we give a party for more than a dozen children from the Schenectady Children's Shelter (they seemed to like our color TV). Another aspect of fraternities overlooked in the editorial is a member's pride in his house. College life is, to a great degree, an isolated period in one's life. The result is a lack of care for each other and the physical plant as a whole {What happens to the furniture in a dormitory?). Tradition may be dying. To simply attack all tradition blindly is downright foolish. If something is outmoded it will die. Some houses on this campus will die. The bnes that die will be the ones that can only offer the beer and color TV. Those that live, however, will be those houses that re-adjust to the so- called .. trend toward individuality and a greater sense of independence.'' If one looks, with ail unbiased eye, at the fraternities at Union, he will see- that most of the houses are doing just that. Sincerely, Donald A. Clarey • • • * To the Editor, In response to the editorial entitled \Fratetnity Rush\ written by Mr. Snitkoff and published in the October fifth issue of .. Concordiensis\ I contend that the editor was not giving the fraternities -of Union College their due justice. His article was just a more subtle paraphrasing of the anti- fraternity murmurings often present on campus. Whether the expectations of a new campus center in Carnegie Hall will affect fraternity memberships, will remain to be seen. I seriously doubt that such a center could proffer all the social faciHties ·presently availa:ble at 'such convenience inside the open doors of this school's fraternities. I will most fervently argue that the ·social and cultural interaction available in the fraternities is deeper and greater . than that which any campus center could provide. Mr. Snitkoff also suggests that the fraternities are experiencing a \failure to keep in step with the rest of campus.\ implying that they are isolating bodies of no service to the college community. However, in looking around, it appears to me that the fraternities are proportionately represented in the all-college activities, and perhaps more so on the Garnet athletic teams. Moreover, I know of no fraternity house on campus which places any restrictions upon its members; the brother is free and urged to be an individual. I would not have . pledged a house if that was not the case. The Union fraternities are fully aware that both alternatives: the option to pledge or not, must be open to each freshman. We also realize that some freshmen want to look at fraternities and others do not; therefore, \an all-out offensive to recruit new brothers\ ·is not proper terminology. We simply try to present our case; we have no means of forcing a young man to join an organization against his will. We realize, like everyone else, that the college experience will long be remembered through each student's lifetime, and it is imperative that each freshman make the decision which will best fulfill his own goals. Thank you, Fred CampbeU '73 • • • • , To the Editor: Unlike most letters announcing one's ~candidacy for membership on the Board of Trustees, this one contains no generalities concerning studeht repre- sentation or vague ambiguities regarding reallocation of funds. Rather, I wish to bring up a number of specific issues. The college presently faces a serious financial situation. The Board of Trustees, in order to save money, has cut back services in a number of areas of great student concern. l. The counseling services of the Psychology department have been greatly reduced. 2. The library's budget has been decreased by 20% curtailing the influx of needed books. 3. Perhaps most importantly - the Board of Trustees has decided to increase the size of the student body by l/3 (from 1,500 to 2 1 000) without increasing fatuity size. As a result, as many CONCORDIENSIS, OCT. 8, 1971 Page3 students have noticed, class size has grown tremendously. These actions have been taken without stl!dent consent or even awareness. As a member of the Board,. I would look to other areas to alleviate the financial crisis. I) Union presently maintains a weH staffed engineering department at the overall cost of '$400,000 per year, despite the fact that fewer and fewer students remain in the · department. The continuation of the engineering program deserves detailed examination, 2) In order to reduce class size the- professors of Union should be called upon to teach an additional class per year. It is unfair that the entire burden of the · school's financial plight should fall on the student body in the form of higher tuitions and scholarship cutbacks. 3) Presently over $60,000 is given out by Union in the form of · scholarships to sons and daughters of faculty and staff so they may attend other colleges. This is in addition to numerous progeny who attend Union tuition-free. The whole policy of scholarships to children of secretaries and maintena1,1ce help (over $35,000 worth) requires careful study. These are three .possible alternatives to the Board's arbitrary and detrimental economic moves. There are obviously no simple solutions to Union•s monetary · problems. What is obvious, tho1;1gh, is that mere platitudes bring us no closer to the solution. In order to investigate further, and to work to implement these p\roposals I am running for the Junior Class position on the Board of Trustees. Howard Seife 116 Fox 370-0056 * * * * To All Bio, Chern, and Psych t Division lllj Majors: I'm one of some half-dozen candidates for Division Ill's representative to the All-College Senate. There are two reasons why I feel rd made a better representative than any of the others .• I'm sure that all of those running are at least partially aware of the many problems confronting the college. I think one of the most important is the status of the sought-for but as yet non-existent Black Culture Center. Last year·, a floor of the old Beta Theta Pi House plus its lounge and basement were offered to the Blacks. However, in order to collect the $1000 paid by Beta for use of the lounge and basement and also to accomodate the (approx.) 35 students, the college stipulated that five people would have to live in the four-man suites. The Blacks wanted 1247 as a base for their BCC. Though the college claimed that 1247 was not under Creative Framing Original Graphics Posters ARTISTS' SUPPLY 163 Jay St. , its control, · 1247 was remodeled over the summer into a dorm, which now houses, by the way, some 35 students. Many of them are freshmen; who are forced, this term anyway, to trek all the way down to West for meals. Meanwhile, all the Blacks got were $100 fines for ta,king the Computer Center. I feel that the Administration's reaction to this situation was a detrimental one. This absurdity is only one of many ~ the bicycle problem, the privilege of kitchenettes being afforded to coeds only, the rapid degradation of the book store, the wasterul ( to students} maintenance of Girling Center are some of the many other injustices that exist. My first advantage as a candidate is that not only do a majority of students know me, but I personally know many of you. In obtaining the 50 signatures required fo·r candidacy, I discovered that many of the peQple I know are in Divison III. If elected, not only would I be willing to listen to yolJr opinions, but I would seek them out. I have found feedback to: be very useful in ·may experience with . Concordiensis, and feel that similar communication would be vital to my performance, to the satisfaction of those who elect me, as All-College Senator. Secondly, only seven of the 23 members of the ACS will be students. As I said, all the candidates are aware of the issues, and with so many of them, many would vote similarly anyway. But, being in the minority, the students' real power would not lie in , voting as mucht as in powe~s of persuasion. There, I stand head-and~ shoulders above my opponents as an outspoken individual. Not a rhetorical but a responsible and intelligent voice must be heard if students are to succeed in having a say about Union's policies, and I feel that fm better qualified than my opponents in this respect, which is why I will vote for me. Let's End Antiquated Priorities! . (\Down With Campaign Slogans!'' said his conscience.) Leap up and pull the top lever - Vote for Leapin and Jump into Action! I wotild appreciate your support. GJII'y Leiderman '73 x~COUNTRY Continued from Page 4 Bryant Moeckel and Kearney, had their own troubles with the course. Moeckel tripped over a water obstacle, and a bee stung Kearney. The individual wifitier of the meet was Jay Haug of Williams, who ran a respectable 26:45 for the course. He was followed by two teammates, and then came Moeckel and Kearney, timed in 27:01 and 27:25. Moeckel might have won the race, or at least broken up the first three, had he not fallen. This would have tightened the meet considerably, because Union placed Dave Rice (27:52), ·Johnson (27:57), Smith (28: 15), and McCabe (28:21) all ahead .of Williams• fifth man, the last man to count in cross-country scoring. Union is looking. to even its record this Saturday, at home at 12 noon against a Trinity team that the Garnet defeated last year. Graubart & Sons may run small ads, but they have big values. ~~:- ·:::n.- ~,:·.}·~:: .. :~ ;_:~..; Schenectady's famous diamond shop, (for three generations) 166 Jay St. THREE UNION GRA.DUATES I.N FAMILY

Page4 G ridders To Sting 3-0 Yellowjackets? ~ ByLEAPIN · ' u · · · 11 . h h d & d Cuffey has caught eight aerials mon WI ost t e UI? eJ.eate for 125 yards. Rochester Yellowjacket.s, Meanwhile, .no Garnet ru:p.ner coached , by Pat . Stark, m has netted 100 yards as yet. Saturday s Homeco~mg game at Bruce Mathias has gained 90 for I :30 at Alex.ande~ F1eld. a 3.6 average, followed by .AII-Am~ncan Jacket halfback fullbacks AI Albano (85 and 3.7) R1ch Parnnello .has scored seven and Curtis Rowe (82 and 3.2). touchdowns. m . the t h~ee Westbrook (77 and 4.3) carried Rochester wms while ,averagmg only five times against Alfred. 5.8 y~rds per carry. He s also the Union's balanced attack, favonte targ~t of Greg Conrad, showing 339 ya:r:ds rushing and the , YellowJacket quar.terbac~ 362 passing, is offset by its yield who s campleted 61% of h1s of 633 rushing yards (and 368 passes. passing). Similarly, despite its 2-1 , Though John Hunter and ~ich mark, the Dutchmen have sco:r:ed Magere are the , other. backfield . 52 points but given up 72. ~tarters, the team s leadin_g. rusher Let's leave aside the quality IS reserve Tom Jarrett, with a 7.6 question for a moment. average. Psychologically, a large The other UR AU-American is Homecoming crowd should give tackle Ron Haines, who heads the all-veteran offensive line. the Garnet a huge lift following last week's debacle at Alfred. After three games, Union's After the great win over St. leading pass receiver is Ron Lawrence, the Dutchmen Westbrook, who's picked up 198 collapsed last Saturday. Now, yar~ on 10 receptions, all of them in the first two games. Jerry More on Page 2 Fraser Hat Trick Paces \ . . . - . Booters In 3-1 Opener least two good chances to score. . · By Marty Berman It was a signal of what was to defenders and alsQ the goalie on come. . a brilliant solo dash upfield, only Co-captain Art Fraser broke loose Wednesday and scored a coveted \hat-trick\ to lead the Union soccer team to a 3-1 victory over Trinity on the losers' home turf. The opening game victory now sends the hooters with high hopes up to Rochester this weekend for their second encounter with one-time mentor Gary Brown. Coach Bob McMurray's charges took the .field and . immediately began dominating the Bantams, possessing superior skill and hustle. But the game was suddenly held up due to an amazing hail storm and subsequent torrential downpour. When the teams took the field ten or fifteen minutes later, Trinity had revived itself and began to outhustle the Garnet. There were several immediate breakthroughs by the Bantams, but they \choked up\ and blew at With 4:22 left on the clock in to see his score 'robbed by the last th~ first period, Fraser picked up defender, who headed the ball a feed ftom co-captain Paul away from. the .ne~. . Martini on what appeared to be Several of the questions that a busted play. Fraser let fly from lingered around the soccer team 25 yards· out and beat the in past seasons seemed to be Bantam goalie to the upper right answered at Trinity. The biggest hand corner of the nets. - questionmark, that of the young Fraser made it 2.-0 at 2:11 of and inexperienced Garnet the third period when he stopped defense, seemed to be solved as an errant Trinity · goal kick, the backliners never lost their dribbled between a few defenders poise ....._ although they looked and w~pped . a thirty .yard. · ·erMtic ':at. · times due to the sinking shot past a startled horrible' playing conditions. Bantam netminder. Slette.land, in goal, had a lot of It was a big insurance goal as trouble with the >.tfmddy ball but both teams had had near misses his positioning (or luck} made up earlier. In the middle of the third for his lack of hands - as stanza Union's Bill Lo Visa evidenced by the lone · Trinity blasted a close-in rebound of a tally against him. Frazier shot just wide of an Scoring should not be_ a empty cage. problem again this season, as the At the start of the fourth forward line appeared to work quarter Trinity narrowed the gap well together and featured lots. of when Union suffered a defensive .. fluid passing. . Williams Trips Harried Harriers Moeckel Kearney Lead Dutchmen lapse on a corner kick. Goalie Doug .Mot'an ' played · an Jim Sletteland was beaten on a excellent game at halfback as he rebound shot of a scramble in and Ira Turret werit most of the front of the net. way. There does not seem to be That momentary lapse proved much to back them up, however, to be the last of its kind for the as Mark Brickley and ·Neil day as the young Dutchman Brickley are currently out with defense stiffened and turned back injuries. Until those two come a seemingly nevet-ending wave of back, the hooters are hurting at onslaughts by the desperate halfback. By Mark Mindel Gentile was not informed by ex- It's hard to be shocked by a cross-country result, but it happened last Tuesday as the top- rated Union harriers, supposedly the best team here in· years, lost their opener 23-33 to a surprisingly strong Williams unit. Many factors led to the .. upset.\ First year coach Chris coach Ron Coleman soon enough that Williams' distance runners were tough; they swept Union in the distance events last spring in track, although the Garnet won the meet. Williams also had run several previous meets, while the Garnets were not only debuting, but had SpfHil, flllllik Mismanagement . With WOODY Question time, gang. Let's think about what management owes to the fan? What constitutes mismanagement? On Friday night, last May 28, Vida Blue and the Oakland Athletics made their first appearance of the 1971 season at Fenway Park. It would be the return of former Red Sox Manager Dick Williams - now the Oakland pilot - and a matchup between Blue, w~o had lost only once, and Boston's \premier\ pitcher, Sonny Siebert. I arrived at the entrance to the bleachers on Lansdowne Street more than one hour before game time to buy three tickets. Two friends would meet me there, hopefully befor.e 7:30 and the game. But horrors! For the first time ever, 1 found the ticket windows closed, and the ushers were rolling down the green doors at the entrance to the bleachers. The old ball park was sold out. Making my way past scalpers who were selling $I .00 bleacher seats for ten bills, I got to a phone booth and alerted my friends: their trip into town would b'e worthless. Then, as a thousand disgruntled fans milled across narrow Lansdowne Street, sandwiched between the left field wall and the Mass Pike, the loudspeaker atop the wall announced that, .. The game is sold out. Standing room only is available at Gate A on Jersey Street.\ What the hell, I figured. l had never been part of an SRO crowd, and it would be worth it to see Blue and Siebert. I joined the crowd and walked halfway around the ball park, to Gate A, the main gate. We moved into the enclosed area that is Fenway's Gate A - it opens out onto the street, and the Red Sox front office is directly above the ticket windows- at 7 p.m. The area was packed with people waiting to get at the SRO at the end of a hot _day, with the setting sun streaming into the \lobby\ and onto the crowd. There may be 15 ticket windows at Gate A, and the crowd was 12 or 15 deep in front of all the wind~ws, overflowing onto the street. Every window was closed. We sweltered on top of and all over each other in there for an hour, chanting and sweating- awaiting some kind of word as to when we could or could not get in. The ball game began, two innings passed, and no word from anybody - an usher, a loudspeaker, or anything- for the patient fans packed in front of the Gate A ticket windows. By 8:00 I had had enough, and I forced my way out of the crowd and dejectedly headed home. The largest crowd in three years was inside the park, so who in the management cared about the poor fools who had heard that they could get SRO space? Bitt that night the Sox became the second team to defeat Vida Blue in 1971. Maybe that's why I never called Eddie, Mark, and Jim to complain. only two weeks of organized training. Three of the top five men placing for the Dutchmen were freshmen - John Kearney, Jim Johnson, and Jim Smith. They were running a five mile meet for the first time, having run 2.5 mile courses in high school competition. Tim McCabe and Bob Nesbitt, last year's one-two punch, didn't seem to be in top form, placing sixth and ninth for the team, respectively, and there seemed to be a lack of unity among the runners going into the first meet. Team member~ report to practice at their own convenience. As for the meet itself, Union made out quite well considering these problems. But the Garnet's top two runners of the day, More on Page 3 Bantams. There is one other important Center fullback Sandy Wilder fact to consider about the Garnet was as spectacular as he always hooters. This fall the. team's is, but it was the determined play morale is sky-high, and an· the of untried fullbacks Bob · players seem to be close. The Grossman, Sev Bonnie, Dave game with· Trinity produced no Kawecki, and Ollie Nielson disputes or dissension of any which held Trinity at bay until kind on the field among the Frazier could ice the game away Dutchmen. with ~is third goal. Last yeiir, the t\1am was Thaf'goal came with 4:11 to go continually racked. by :dissension, in the game as a result of a and this was a factor in the goalmouth pass from right squad's poor 2-7-1 mark. ... winger Bobby Bernhardt. Fraser There is a long hard season hit the empty side of the net fr.om ahead with the likes of Colgate, six yards out. Middlebury, and RPI on the A few minutes before Dusty schedule - and no contests that Richards had just failed to add can be termed easy games. But the insurance marker. Little this looks like the right year for Dusty dribbled past two Union's first winning soccer season since 1958. · ~:DES TO G-0 SEE~ J • They are ours. In superior leather and suede garments made for your pro· tection and pleasure. And you will seek not blindly - for we have already sifted the market's crannies for none but the best. A pair presented here- a full complement at your command. Seek soon. ~qttir~ &lfnp 420 State St.-Open Tuesday & Thursday til 9:00. 1 eve1 Cha T Stu4 stud doo Pr PJ Chw Prize-\1 Be Sor. at the Sage Sunda) The St1 $1.00, ~ the Sa~ Box OJ ' door l petfom Thel I produc1 Off· to with c~ play revolviil charactc Bar in of th~ charact~ either ir from experie11 Thep Joseph l New Y< Public·~ perform: had exb as an ac an awar Mice ar Bl This f held ill Thursda1 Oct. 15 · Last yea pints of and spr should nt relatively takes onl p(imtt'iii of blood You wan1 the Gym Thursday any ques Robbins:

I . ' •;; ·a=.· I'· .J Founded at Union College 18?7 y glome 101, ~wiabe~ 6 . I SCHENECTADY, NEW YORK. 0Ci10B£R l~, t97t .. PR:CE TWENTY CENTS IN CONCERT The Social Committee presents Brewer and Shipley, an evening of folk music, m concert at 8:30 p.m. in Memorial Chapel on Saturday evening, October 23. Tickets wiD be available beginning tomorrow at the Student Activities Office. The price will be 53 for Union students with ID, in advance, and $4 for others and at the door. Tickets -~ill be sold between the hours of 1:00 and S:OO p.m. only. Prize-winning Play Presented at Sage Charles Gordone's Pulitzer Prize-winning play \No Pl~ce To Be Somebody\ ~ill be performed at the Fine Arts Center, Russell Sage College in Troy, this Sunday, October 17, at 7:30 p.m. The Student Admission charge is $1.00, and tickets are available at the Sage Bookstore, through the Box Office, 27o-2335, and at the door on the night of . the performance. association with many other productions. The road company which will perform this weekend at Sage, comprises a cast of 22, and is under the direction of Jackie Warner who brought \Stop the World' 1 to the Fine Arts Center last year. Reports are that the road company has drawn capacity corwds at appearances in several Northeastern colleges. Highlights of: Homecom.ing- Nott, 'Kappa Nu, Alumnus Highlighting the more formal aspects of Homecoming; there was an exhibit of items relating to the -life and career of Eliphalet N ott, displayed in N att Memorial (of all places} ail day Saturday. The exhibit also noted the first modern biography of N ott, who · served as a college president longer than any other man in the history of higher education. Nott was president of Union from 1804 .(when he was 31 years old) until his death in 1866 at the age of 92, a term of 62 years, a feat which remains unchallenged. Under his leadership, Union began as a struggling frontier college and rose to become one of the major colleges in the country. By 1825, Union was graduating more students than any American institution. The story of the life and times of Nott is told in a biography Eliphalet Nott, by Codman Hislop, Research Professor of American Civilization at Union. The book was ptJblished by Wesleyan University Press earlier this month. The exhibit included several personal items associated with Nott such as his s}l~tacles,. his inkwell. his easy charr, ·and his . melodeon, a gift of the class of 1906. In addition, Nott's ·academic regalia were displayed - a gown, and his own version of the academic mortarboard. ·Nott was a noted educator and inventor, who perfected the design for the frrst practical stove which burned hard coal, an invention which led to the growth of a stove-making ipdustry, a market for coal in Pennsylvania and the Delaware & Hudson railroad to link the two. Also on exhibit was the patent for the coal-burning steamboat, the S.S. Novelty, also designed by Nott. The display included advertisements and tickets for the famous college lotteries managed by NQtt to finance building of the present campus. Investigations into alleged irregularities in the lottery marred N ott's later years, and although he was cleared of the charges, both he, the college and public lotteries were damaged by the accusations. Copies of the Nott biography are now on sale in the Campus Bookstore. In other Homecoming Activities, the former Kappa Nu and, later, Phi Epsilon Pi ·house at 1247 Lenox Road was officially returned to the college during a ceremony on Saturday afternoon. The building was relinquished by the Trustees of Kappa Nu, the fraternity for which it was built in 1949. The building, to be called Kappa Nu House, will be used by the college as a dormitory. The current facility, which underwent renovation in recent years, can hou~e 30 students and has two large lounges, a kitchen and a dining area. In 1961, Kappa Nu merged with Phi Epsilon Pi, which decided to disband as a fraternity last year. For the past year, the Phi Ep house was called 1247, and served as a college \Club\ open for social functions and meals to the general student body. However, the highlight of Homecoming Weekend was an alumnus who permeated the nearly non-existent security at North College in quest of a place to ' spend the evening. His midnight (and beyond) ride took him to the fourth tloor of the newly renovated women's dormitory where he, emulating the trustee and college senate candidates, embarked on a door- to-door campaign, explaining why he would be the right man for the job. Several on-the-spot- reports indicate, however, that his campaign was relatively iJ?.effective, though persistent. Voices of. East Harlem In Performance Here ' The Black Student Alliance singing group have had no professional musical training, they have naturally developed into performers having the style and charisma of pros. The New York company of the production recently moved from Off· to On-Broadway and met with considerable success, The play tells several stories, revolving around the various char11cters who frequent John;s Bar in Greenwich Village. Each of the highly diversified characters seeks his individuality either in the context of or apart from the group-shared experience at the bar. Big Brothers and Sisters Hold Organiz,ational Meeting features \The Voices of East Harlem\ in concert in Memoria! Chapel on Friday, October 15 at 8:30 p.m. Ticket!!, available in the Student Activities Office, are $2.00. The Voices are composed of . young people drawn from 1 neighboring Johnson and Jefferson Houses, rising over the tenements in East Harlem. The members of the group range in age from 12 to 19. Their formal debut came about one year ago, with several performances at church socials, political benefits and oth.er nieghborhood functions. Last April, they came to the attention of Jerry Brandt, creator of the Electric Circus, where the Voices did two performances. The play was first produced by Joseph Papp in May, 1969; at his New York Shakespeare Festival Public Theater and ran for 248 performances. The author has had extensive theater experience as an actor in \The Blacks,\ as an award-winning actor in \Of Mice and Men,'' and ill: close Blood Dr·ive This Fall's blood drive will be held in the Alumni Gym Thursday Oct. 14 and Friday Oct. 15 from H a.m. to 5 p.m. Last yeat we collected over 600 pints of blood in two drives, fall and spring. Potential Dono·rs should note that giving blood is a relatively painless operation and takes only a few minutes. At this po1mtliere is a critical shortage of blood in the tri-cities area. If You want to give just show up in the Gym during a gree period on Thursday or Friday. If you have any questions please call Dave Robbins at 372-0804. The Big Brother and Big Sister Program held an important · organizational meeting on Thursday, October 7. Many new . · members were present and a spokesman from the Schenectady Big Brother Program said that the Union College Program is working in conjunction with the Schenectady agency to match Big Brothers and little brothers. ldentification cards were distributed to members and these cards allow members of the Union College Big Brother and Big Sister Program to visit the weekend Schenectady Planetarium Shows for free and also allow little brothers and sisters to eat for half price at West College. Regarding the use of the gymnasium, it was stressed that Big Brothers and Sisters must · accompany their little brother or sister into the gym and it was also announced· that the pool is no longer open to little brothers or sisters because of the insurance problem. The Union CoJiege Counseling Service, located in the Psychology Building, is Working with the Big Brother and Big Sister Program and any Big · Brother or Sister having problems with their little brother or sister is urged to contact Prof. Weitz of the Counseling Serive. A Halloween Picnic is planned for October 30 at 1 p.m. in Jackson Gardens and movies will be shown on November 6 at 2 p.m·. in SS 016. If you have any questions about the Program, or are interested in joining, please contact John Calender, Phi Gamma Delta, 372-0172, or Marie Bednar, Bronner House, 370-0274. . The Voices began nearly one and one-half years ago under the leadership of Chuck Griffin and with the encouragement of the East Harlem Federated Youth Association (EHFY A). EHFY A also sponsors local community . functions in Harlem, such as the only local scheduled baseball and football leagues. Although most members of the PYE Cleans Schenectady; Saturday Set for Drioe by DON AMI.RA Last year, the Schenectady Protect Your Environment Club, based here on Union College carnpus, sponsored and cooperated with several programs to help improve our immediate environment. In the spring, P.Y.E. collaborated with the Young Adults of the First Methodist Church and operated a recycling station on the campus, as part of the Schenectady County sponsored Pace I prc:>ject (Preserve and Appreciate our County Environment.) On a specified Saturday morning, the citizens of Schenectady County brought used glass bottles, newspapers, and cans to recycling stations located in various parts of the county. The drive was such a h'!lge success that this fall the project, PACE II, is being repeated. PACE II'S first collection date is set for this Saturday, October 16, between 9 a.m. and 1 p.m. Union's collection station will be located between the Continued on Page 5 The Voices have already met with virtually universal acclaim. Time Magazine says, \they send out waves of joy that jolt your system right out of gloom and start you stomping floors and pounding fists and dancing on chairs.\ Elektra Records hails their performance:·~.. the whole act disappears into the audience and becomes a part of a joyous dancing, laughing throng with just the rhythm section throbbing through your tired old arteries ... It seetns that every- - member takes the .spot and out- Arethas Atetha, out~Rays Ray, out-Cookes Sam and out- Wonders Stevie. Otis should have lived to see them .. They are no phoney show-biz pretend soul .•. The music speaks and says it all.\ At the Mortorium and Winter Peace Festival at Madison Square Garden, The Voices (\the least known group on the bill\) earned the frrst, most unanimous, and most immediate standing ovation of the vening. They also opened the Fillmore's New Year's Eve show and had the Fillmore crowd, who had really come to see Hendrix, clapping for more.

Pagel CONCORDIENSIS, OCT.13, 1971 . Managing Editor Doug Wong Asst. Managing Editor Gail W. Goodman Contributing Editor~ William Holleran Mike Meserole Editor-in-Chief Louis S. Snitkoff Sports Editor George S. Bain Features Editor Matthew Swartz Business Manager Joseph Achenbaum ,· Photography Editors Jody Saslow Charles Long .'lational Advt. Manager -, Mark Shulman .-• . .;;soc. Photography Editor. Subscriptions Manager Dave Conrey · Michael Hurley STAFF: Mark Urman, Jim Smith, Bruce Turei:amo, Bob JohnSon, Jim Rostenberg, Chris Mandeville; Barbara McDonald, Les Goldman, Rosemary Rice, Don Kaplan, Rita Morandi, Barbara McDonald, Patty Sipe, Richard Kern, Gary (Leapin') Leiderman, Marty Berman, Mark Mindel, Frank DeLucia, AI Reisch Published Tuesdays and Fridays during the school year by the student body of Union College, Schenectady, N.Y., National Advertising Representative, National Educatienal. Advertising Service, Inc., College Publishers Representative, 360 Lexington Ave., N.Y.C. Editotial office, Old Gym, Union College. Publication Office, The World Publications, 771 State Street, Schenectady, N.Y. 12307, 346-2356. Entered in the Schenectady post office as Second Class Mail Matter: Subscription 20 cents .a copy:$8 a year' delivered anywhere in the United States. Security Blanket The events of the last two weeks have served as definite corroboration of an earlier comment on campus security, case for tig~ter protection even more convincing. Specific reference can be made to the case of the roving alumnus (Homecoming story, page 1) and the case of the phone company representatives (page 5), both of which are absolutely true. The latter occurred because the phone company, for some reason, had .a master key to rooms in Fo-x House, while the former can be explained by the college's failure to provide the women in North with a lobby security guard. l)espite the seemingly amusing nature of these two incidents, they should not be treated lightly. First, the entire matter of keys, as it relates to access to rooms and buildings on this campus is-totally mismanaged. Maintenance .never seems to have the right key at the right time (or at the wrong time), and those who have no business in rooms on campus seem to have the keys. Hence, security· in the true sense of the word is most difficult. One case in point is that of a resident of fourth floor North whose only access to her room was thi'ough her neighbor's window, because none of the master keys which could be produced by her Resident Advisor, Maintenance or Houdini would open the door. But, the real llecurity issue seems to be one which involves the security of the students, rather than that of their possessions. Making Richmond House the main Campus Security Center is, indeed, noble in its intent, but annoyingly superfluous and over-protective in its effect. While the women of Richmond enjoy (?) twenty-four hour protection, those of North still lack a lobby guard. While the question . of whether the coeds must be protected from the male student body has become largely academic, the reality is that protection is needed to ward off unwanted early-morning intruders. · It is generally accepted that 'round the clock protection is not needed, but posting a guard in the lobby and locking the doors after midnight would be greatly appreciated. - L. s. s. Special Introductory Sale 20% OFF TO ACQUAINT YOU WITH OUR NEW I TEENMAN SHOP (SIZES 36 TO 42) FAMOUS NATIONAL BRANDS • SPORTCOATS • SLACKS • • RAINCOATS • OUTERWEAR • VISIT OUR \DEBS DEN\ FOR UNION GIRLS 313 STATE ST., AT ERIE BLVD. I wg~~.~~~!l!! rM~~~~~!!!. ilie ~!k~bkak · Schenectady Protect Your Environment Club for The effort seemed fruitless and the PYE Club could ,the stacking o.f _newspapers· in do~mitory rooms ~nd not suggest an area which was deemed· acceptable. halls .. To facilitate_ an explanatiOn, let us review Finally, on October 7.; two officers af the PYE Club recychng_on the Uru.on Campus. . . were informed that the college would allow the dub Recycbng at Uruon was first I.nstltuted by the to build with its own materials and labor a PYE Club in conjunction with the Schenectady structure' on the cuiverting over Hans Groot's ion County P_ACE Project last spring. PACE was a o~e- behind the M·aintenance buildings';' W f! would be shot project. pr~moted by the_ County Pl~?mng able to store the paper in this structure. Department, _which made a~allable to Citizens Unfortunately, the .PYE Club must refuse this centers to whtch ~hey could brmg bottles, c~ns, and offer, becal,lse to accept it would be to slight the paper for recycling. PYE collected these 1tems at findings and recommendations of the Committee on Union for two weeks before ~he PACE collection Environmental Studies dated April, 197l. In its ·day, and on ~hat day the matenals :were loaded onto report, \Er!vironment at Uruqn College ~ A a college mamtenance truck <~:nd shtpped to a PA9E Review .of Resource Use on the . Union College center. Both the PACE proJect and the collect10n Campus,\ the committee notes \ ... th&t expansion of on campus were very successful. . . the Field House southwards may result in the The PYE Cl_ub_ was now _enthustasuc a~out on- further extension of this culverting perhaps all the ~~pus re~ycling <~:nd decided to co~ttime ~he way east to Lenox I_{.oad. We feel that this is a proJect entirely on tts own. He~e the frrst major serious trend which-should be reversed immedia,tely, prohle~ was. encounter~d. Dunng the two-week commencing with the removal of the culverting collection penod, the Mamten~n~e Department had recently placed in the upstreajll. area of the garden.\ let PYE u~e a corner of the ~h1llmg plant for paper The PYE Club fully endorses all the storage, With the understandmg that at the end of recommendations .of the Committe.e. To expect the two w:eks this practic~ would not be allowed. _It PYE, then, to btiild on the existing culverting would was explamed !hat dor~tory basements, ample .In be slightly less t.Qan ludicrous .. space and eas1ly ~ccess1ble, could no: be used It cannot be denied that it is the responsibility of be~ause of a potential fire hazar~. No area deemed each and every individual; corp.oratioh, . and suttable coul~ be found and ult1mately the pap~rs institution to insure the - . protection of our wer~ stor~d m th~ rooms of PYE members w1th environment. In this vein of reasoning, recycling is a obvrous Inconvemence~. Whenever a truckload relatively simple process which can have significant ,acc~mulated, a . m~intenance truck w~s loaded effects when promoted on a large scale. The PYE behind the ~ornutones a~d the ~apers shipped to a Club is accepting most of the responsibility for this local salvagt~g fi~. Th1s contmued through the task of recycling on the Union campus. Yet even end of the sprmg term. There :was some hope for the this task can be made unnecessarily ard'Uous unless future:, however, as the Mamtenance Department the PYE Club is backed by the cooperation and promised to try to locate over the summer a storage assistance of both the students and the area for the co~ing y_ear. . administration. The students have responded not Upon returrun~ this ~all, one of our first. actiOns only by using the sites but also by manning them. was to check. With mamtenance to see whe~ we On this coming Saturday, October 16, the PYE would be stormg paper. We l~arned. that no suitable Club will be collecting cans, bottles, and paper from area ha~ been found, but agam Mamtenance would the general public in the Science and Engineering keep trymg. . . parking lot, in conjunction with the County's PACE The first meetmg of the PYE Club this ~ear. was II project. As it stands now the PYE Club is still then held on September 30, and an enthusiastic 35 searching for a means of storing paper.'Until such of t~e 47 present signed up to work on the recycling means is found, we ask- the understanding of those proJect. Fully aware .t~t storage area had n_ot yet inconvenienced by the present storage methods. been found, the dectswn was made to l:!egm the Hopefully a solution to the problem will soon be,.. project. This decision was not made as callously as found. · it may appear, for we in the PYE dub were nearly ·yours for a better future, certain that, with the help of Maintenance and the Administration, someplace would soon be found. John P. Ha:kkinen This was not to be the case, however. After Pres., Schenectady PYE Club several visits to both the Maintenance and Tom Lundquist Vice President Frosh Crop, law·men and Nichols Continued from Page 3 cigar or a ·pen for his notebook. Back in 1965 Falk had a small~ time lawyer show called Trials of· O'Brien. It was a great show but the ratings were not good. Hopefully, with a change of nationality, will come a change of luck. Cannon, is Frank Cannon (William Conrad), a private detective, and ex-cop, with one thing that sets him apart from all other TV dicks - a very large waistline. He lives in a cozy penthouse and only leaves it for the biggest, most baffling, and most monetarily rewarding cases (which comes to about once a week). If only to hear Conrad talk (what pipes!) and see him throw his- weight around, this is a great show. Sarge is what they used to call George Kennedy (\Cool Hand . Luke\) back when he was the best detective on the San Diego police force. But that was before his best friend cop (Ricardo Montalban again) blew up Sarge's wife trying to destroy some incriminating evidence. Sarge quits the force and enters the priesthood, becoming Father Samuel Patrick Cavanaugh, but everybody still calls him Sarge. He divides his time between attending to his San Diego flock and busting a little crime (including his wife's murderer) on the .side. He is supported in the Rectory by· a Chinese cook (Harold Sakata, Oddjob in \Goldfinger\) who doubles as a bodyguard, and a young secretarial whiz {Sally Shockley) who doubles as an unwed mother. Kennedy's vi.gorous personality carries the show, though, he's' the best TV priest since Fulton J. Sheen. Cade's County is Glenn Ford's initial venture (a modern western) into television, and so far it looks as though Ford is the only Movie Star who is really making it with a new television program. As Sheriff Sam Cade, he's the top cop in Madrid County and runs his office with cool, common sense, and coffee. Up to now the shows have been above average, the gu~st stars top drawer (Win Geer, Martin _ S~een, James Gregory), and the supporting cast, led by Edgar Buchanan, more than adequate. I haven't seen many of Ford's pictures, but he's a .damn good actor, and a hellava great jeep driver. If Owen Marshall, Counselor at Law hadn't been developed by David Victor, the show could be sued for plagiarism. Owen Marshall is Marcus Welby with law books. Like Welby, Marshall, played by Arthur Hill, is a widower, his office is at home and staffed by a chatty secretary, he'll take on anyone as a client, and he has an occasionally Uppity young assistant, Lee Majors (Health in The Big Valley), who may be the Dr. Kiley of the show but he looks an awful lot like Joe Gannon ·· of Medical Center. David Victor is no fool, Welby is a gold mine and Marshall should be, too. Dick Van Dyke and Jimmy Stewart both have new shows carrying their names this season, and both of them are good. Van Dyke's entry is just like his old show only with a completely new cast and setting. Now, instead of writing jokes for the •Alan Brady Show,' he has a talk show of his own (that's the way Dick Cavett did it). If Van Dyke has found it easy to get back into the TV groove, however, Jimmy Stewart is finding the going pretty rough. Scheduled against Tile FBI and The CBS Sunday Night · Movies, his ratings are hurting, which is too bad because if you like Jimmy Stewart, you'll like his show. The truth is, I love Jimmy Stewart and fll watch the show even though the supporting cast, with the noted exception of John McGiver, is horrible and the scripts weak. With such invisible support, it's like watching \Harvey\ once a week. The J.tersuaders opened with American Wall Street Wizard Danny Wilde (Tony Curtis) and British Lord Brett Sinclair (Roger Moore) being summoned to London on business. The business is to get them together to rout Continental bad .guys, ••like nitro and glycerin,\ as the old judge says, \separate they really aren't much, but together, heh, heh, heh.\ They drive the fastest cars and encounter the sexiest girls in Televisionland. Curtis looks like he's in the series to .make money and Moore looks like Mayor Lindsay. Wisecracks abound; frinstance when they come across a lighted candelabra after breaking into a mansion; \Does Liberace live here?\ quips M.oore. \Nope counters Curtis, \it's Count Dracula's birthday.\ That's funny, at the time I thought that was hilarious. O'Hara, U.S. Treasury combines the fleet feet of ex- Fugitive David Janssen and the flat feet of Badge 714, Jack Webb, in a show that fights for law and order on the Customs front. Webb's handiwork is obvious (if you don't think he produces this show, just .try dancing to the theme song) from the just-the-facts-ma'am dialogue to O'Hara's no monkeying around with the job at hand. However, with Janssen in the starring role, still flashing that nervous Fugitive smirk, you find yourself momentarily forgetting that in this show Dr. Richard Kimble is doing the chasing. i ~ _, pre mc to I bn I sta plo bu1 Se1 Nit of 90 of not Sbi Shi phc sho wot bea rae( 1 star Zor slot! Nigl alll sh01 and bud: and hav( Hac this start blinc well, isn't Besi~ TV won• telev Be Taylo on ti from featun Beare< tires. ~ gas, b Face (the S this or alone. bad sc cast, a1 Sunda; the reg it start Sand Race,\ The CJ -Far down< the con plot, a bathing Twenti1 Heroes, John l HH) C( he's no Klernpe play Fn The Don A• C<

able. club r, a Kill be this the its A of the the a ing n.'~ ect of nt CONCORDIENSIS, OCT. 13, 1971 Page 3 New Video Sked. Cops, Crime & Clergy PRIME TIME NIELSON'S l. AU in the Family (CBS) PRIME TIME MESEROLE's · 2. Flip Wilson (NBC) 3. Mal'cus Welby (ABC) l. Nichols (NBC) 2. All' bt the Family (CBS) 3. Mary Tyler Moore (CBS) ABC Paces Als:o Rans 4. llere's Lucy (CBS) 5. Gunsinoke (CBS) 4. NBC Mystery Movie (NBC) Frosh 'Crop Loo-ks Fine; Lawmen Boffo On Tube; 'Nichols' At The Summit Of the twenty·{our bran,d new programs unveiled thi~ past month, ten have broken mto the top twenty, leaving 14 that have broken elsewhere andjust broken. 6. Funny Face (CBS) 7. Movie oftbe Week (ABC) 8. Mannix (CBS) 9. Medical Center (CBS) 10. Do.-is DilJ! (CBS) 11. NBC Mon. Movie {NBC) 12. Dick Van Dyke (CBS) . 13. NBC Mystery Movie (NBC) 14. Mary Tyler Moore (CBS) 15. Carol Burnett (CBS) 16. My 3 Sons (CBS) 17. Adam-12 (NBC) 18. Bonanza (NBC) 19~ ABC Sun. Movie (ABC) 20. Laugh-In (NBC) 5. Cannon (CBS) 6. Marcus Welby (ABC) 7. Cade's County (CBS) 8. Sar;ge (NBC) 9. Night Gallery (NBC) , 10. Owen Marshall (ABC) U. }'lip Wii$on (NBC) 12. The Odd Couple (A:8C) 13. Dick Van Dyke (CBS) 14. Medical Center (CBS) 15. The Persuaders (ABC) 16, Carol Burnett (CBS) 17. Jimmy Stewart (NBC) 18. Ironside (NBC) 19. Adam•l2 (NBC) 20. O'Hara (CBS) by MIKE MESEROLE Getting Together (ABC), starring Bobby Sherman - more plot than Playboy After Dark~ but not as entertaining as Sunrise Semester. The New CBS Friday Night Movies (CBS) and Mo1!ie of the Weekend (ABC) - mote 90 minute first-thne-evers for out of work Hollywood film stars, not great but not. too bad. Shirley's World (ABC), starring Shirley MacLaine .as· a ·Worldwide photographer - El Doggo! It's shows like this that make you wonder if ABC ever wants to beat NBC and CBS in the ratings race. The Man and the City {ABC), starring Anthony Quinn as Zorba the Mayor - too bad it's slotted against Mannix and Night Gallery, Quinn's not bad at all but the role is a dead end; the show's been on for fotJr weeks and there haven't been any giant budget cuts, not a single strike, and the local pro ballclubs haven't threatened to move to Hackensack, where the hell is this city? Longstreet (ABC \ starring James Franciscus as a blind insurance investigator - well, it's no Mr. Novak, but it isn't Youngblood Hawk, either. Besides, there's always room on TV for another widower. I wonder if he's seen any color television sets lying around. Bunkers, M TM Best S,itcoms; Marcus Welby Still Top Doc When the network teasers start dancing across the television screen in late July, tantalizing the viewer with bits and pieces of the coming, brand new TV season, the optimist in me immediately gets psyched up. More than once this optimism has proven unwarra,nted, either due to the fact that a promising show turned aut to be a reaJ stinker (The Survivors, Camp Runamuck), or because the network callously decided to dump a very good program (The Rogues, Hot Dog). ' Still, given the short TV year (24 weeks) and the less than dialogue that cracks me up about this show: a Mexican bandit (Ricardo Montalban, of course) named El AguJa has taken over the town, which provokes the town redneck to say, \I ain't afraid of 00 tortilla-eater, 1 gotta mind to ventilate his sombrero.\ Or one old gunfighter noticing another cowpoke with a gun and saying, \I see you're strappin' iron on your hip.\ Or the local cavalry leader demanding to know how a Wanted Foreigner escaped across the border unharmed, \He had a hostage, sir, a civilian.'' \Dammit soldier, haven't you ever heard of legitimate casualties?'' Anyway, Nichols is no casualty, in fact, it may be the season's dark horse. Cleal'ly evident in taking a look at the prime time Nielson ratings as of last week, where only three new shows made the top 20 and only one the first ten, is that the folks in Videoland are not quick to change viewing habits. In the prime time Meserole ratings there seems to be almost radical up he a val by comparison - returning shows from last year's top 10 have been cut in half. outstanding quality of returning shows, the old juices manage to get going every summer when those promotional blurbs appear. With 24 new shows on tap this Fall; the odds are in favor of my optimism paying off in at least a few cases, but so far a surprising ten new shows liave merited enthusiasm. The 1NBC Mystery Movie is made up of three different series; one starring Rock Hudson and Susan Saint James as the San Francisco police commissioner and his wife, another with Dennis Weaver returning as Sam McCloud, the cowboy cop in Gotham City, and the third show featuring Peter Falk as L.A.P.D.'s detective, Lt. AU in the Family is back, well- Written and well~acted as ever. There has been a storm raised recently severely criticizing. 'Family's light-hearted treatment of bigotry and damning any effort to categorize Archie Bunker as \lovable.\ The critics miss the essence of the show, however, Archie is not a ravi'ng Klansman, he's a small man with stupid biases. The fun in watching the show is in realizing just how stupid Archie's bigotry is. One other thing, an unsung strength in AU in the Family is that practically the whole program takes place in the Bunker living room, much the same as the Ktamden's kitchen in The Honeymooners. Welby and Kiley: Tbe Heart· break of Psoriasis? No problem, we'll ba:ve it fixed in an hour. This season the theme is cops and robbers and law and order, with all kinds of new crime- busters, ranging from fat guys (Cannon) to slobs (Columbo) to blind guys (Longstreet) to priests (Sarge). There are the usual number of situation comedies (sitcoms), but the overall load of programs is lighter this year due Bearcats! (CBS), starring Rod Shirley MaeLaine's 'World\ is a Dog - get the picture? The show with the best supporting cast on television, The Mary Tyler Moore Show, returns to Saturdays with Emmy and. Ernie winners Edward Asner and Valerie Harper, not to mention MTM,' herself. The two characters that make this show number one medico in TV -land, nobody can ask for an EKG like Robert Young. Welby <loesn't have the get- well-quick field all to himself, however, with the presence of The Bold Ones and Medical Center. Medical Center doctors Gannon and Lochner not only have a whole hospital to cope with, but Gannon is somehow directly responsible for the health, or lack of it, of every student ·at The University. Luckily, Steve Allen's wife is the head nurse. Unfortunately for the do~tors (and lawyers) the The Bold Ones, since the show chickened out and dropped the Senator segment this year, they are under suspension in tltis corner until they remove Bold from the title. Cops & robbers and mystery round out the top twenty drama entries. Ironside has lost Officer , Eve Whitfield and wheeled over to Tuesday taking on Mod Squad and Glen Campbell at . to the FCC cut back of nightly Prime Time from 3~ to 3 hours. Heading the list of positive new offerings is Nichols, a pre- WWI western, comedy, drama set in Arizona and starring James Garner. Nichols (Garner) is a gun shy, 18-year Army veteran who quits the cavalry to return home for peace and quiet and hopes of making lots of money. No chance, the town, also named Nichols, makes him sheriff scratching any hope for quiet or money. Nichols, the town, is a zoo, populated by assorted misfits, old cowboys and turn-of- the-century motor cars, and run · by tough old Ma Ketcham (Neva Patterson), whose son (John Beck) is the biggest trouble maker around. Nichols, the sheriff, is Brett Maverick with a motorcycle. His deputy (Stuart Margolin) is an untrustworthy grub, and .his girlfriend (Margot Kidder) is the best looking barmaid in the world. Fran)[ Cannon, the fat private eye who loves to throw his weight around. Far~fetched? ABC has a blind guy and NBC has a Taylor and Denms Cole- heavy on the explosives, borrowing from Wild, Wild West, and featuring a brilliant white Stutz Bearcat, devoid of dirt or flat tires. The Stutz never runs out of gas, but the show does.. Funny Face (CBS) - Sandy Duncan (the Skinny-dip ad girl} stars in this one, but she can't carry if off alone. The show is hurting from bad scripts, a weak supp0rting cast, and a laugh-track. The CBS Sunday Night Movies (CBS) - the regular 9:00 mpvie thing only it starts at 7:30, flicks like ,\The Sand Pebbles,\ \The Great Race,\ and \To 'sir With Love.\ The Chicago Teddy Bears (CBS) - Far and away the biggest let down of the new season, despite the comeback of Huntz Hall. The plot, a comedy set in the gin- bathing, gangster-ridden Roaring Twenties, is a potential Hogan's Heroes, but the scripts stink. John Banner (Sgt. Schultz in RH) co-owns a speak-easy but he's not enough, maybe Werner Klemperer (Col. Klink) could play Frank Nitty. one of my favorites, though, are Ted Knight as TV anchorman- narcissist Ted Baxter and Cloris Leachman as MTM's ever- educated, and married, landlady Phyllis. ' , One of the most annoying · things about the standard television situation comedy is the infamous sitcom laugh-track. AU Continue~ on Page ~ But it's the cliche•ridden Chancellor On His Own priest. . Columbo. Each show appears every third week for 90 minutes. The Hudson show, McMillian & Wife, is so-so - terrific bicycle chases hut not much else unless you're a big Susan Saint James fan like I am. The Partners (NBC), starring Don Adams· and Rupert Crosse Continued on Page 5 in the Family and Mary Tyler Moore are done before live audiences and as a change this year, The Odd Couple is doing likewise. I never thought anyone but Walter Matthau could play Oscar Madison; but Jack Klugman is Oscar, and Tony Randall is the perfect foil as Felix. Combined, they are the finest comedy twosome since Jackie Gleason and Art Carney. Turning to the dramatic, Robert Y ouhg is still making house calls as Marcus Welby, M.D. and coming up with the most heart-rending diseases on TV. Two years ago, the season kicked off, er, led off with terminal brain somethingorother, last year the premiere dealt with teen- agers and venereal disease; and this year they opened up with breast cancer. (Personally, I'm waiting for an hour devoted to the heartbreak of psoriasis.) Anywny. Doc Welby is the In tnid-August of this summer, NBC News decided to let seasoned newsman John Chancellor take over as sole anchorman on the NBC Nightly . News, and go it alone against ironman Walter Cronkite of CBS and the grandfatherly tandem of Harry Reasoner and Howard K. Smith on ABC. The switch was made primarily because David Brinkley wanted to dissolve his co-anchorman tole and semi-retire to the limbo of pure comment. Along with Brinkley's elevation to the Senate of Sages, part-time anchorman Frank McGee was jettisoned in order to take over the Today Show for retiring Hugh Downs. This left Chancellor on his own and gave the NBC news show a dimension it lacked before, that of Brinkey's comment (which appears under the title of \David Brinkley's Journal\) a feature that CBS has long carried with the G~d-!ike utterances of Eric NBC's Chancellor; one on one with Big Walt Sevareid. Reasoner, as may be remembered, left .CBS last year for the ABC job and since he has teamed up with Smith, ABC's evening news has been attracting viewers. The audience battle is waged principly between NBC and CBS, however, with Walter Cronkite in the lead. But some innovative set designing and the congenial delivery of the news by Chancellor could have Big Walt looking over his shoulder before the year is out. The other two thirds, however, are tremendous. McCloud is as entertaining as last year, pitting the Taos, New Mexico Marshall against the crime of New York City and the sarcasm of N.Y.P.D. Chief Willard (J.D. Cannon). Columbo is even better. Peter Falk, who is as adept at comedy (\The Great Race\) as he is at drama (\Husbands\), combines these two abilities in playing Columbo; a disheveled, cigar-smoking, rain- coated detective who is allergic to open-and-shut cases. The bad guys think he's stupid, and let down their guard only to find out to~ late that the humble guise is 1 hiding a genuine supersleuth. ; Like Darren McGavin in The ' Outsider a few yeats ago, Columbo drives a piece of junk for a car. never has a light for his Continued on Page 2

. P;ge 4 CONCORDIENSIS, OCI.13, 1971 Cinderella Shifts Into High Gear by Mike Meserole The Sunday morning after Chrissie had thrilled the Fores~ Hills gallery with her dramatic~ come-from-behind, second round victory over Mary Ann Eisle, 'Chris Evert' was aU over every sports section in the country. Saturday afternoon she had been a novelty; a pretty, 16-year old girl playing ball with the big kids. How cute, a young, new face is always good for the game. But Sunday Chris was a star; the last two sets of the Eisle match had been on national television, live, the day before, the Sunday N.Y. Times ran her name in banner headlines, and the Daily News heralded the arrival of a bonafide sensation. Suddenly, Chrissie's name was gammg · popularity outside the tennis· world. People who thought the Wightman Cup was one of those Pro Hockey trophies,. were now becoming avid fans. ln a sporting nation that loves its sports heroes right out of the storybook, Chrissie was striking up the beginning of a torrid love affair. As was to be noted time and again in the next week, Chris Evert was the right girl in the right place at the right time. The sports world was cruising on automatic- baseball was in the doldrums with over a month left in the regular season and the four divisiooal races seemingly sewed up, football was still in training camp, and basketball and hockey were just starting their training schedules. In short, very little exciting was happening on the sports page. The only potentially newsworthy event rested in the U.S. tennis Open at Forest Hills, and if you're planning to make a splash in a hurry, New York City is the best place to do it. If you're young, good-looking and riding a 44 match winning streak, you've got it made. Chrissie had it made, even if the New York TV newsmen were mispronouncing her last name 'E-vert.' crowd was on its feet, the cameras grinded ~way, and Chris had· the set, 6-2. As the third and decisive set began, Chrissie had the stadium attendance sensing victory, and quickly jumped out to a 2-0 lead. Stretching it to 4-l, Chris had Frank pinned back on the baseline with unbelievable chalk- raising forehand and two-handed \backhand volleys,. which set up her deadly drop shot. The gallery ate it up, and managed to devour Miss Durr as well, as the game French pro lost the n:ia.tch 6-2, 2- 6, 3-6 and left the court bitter at the cruelty of an audience that roared at opponents' mistakes as well as favorite_s' winning shots. After the match, the press converged on Chrissie like she was giving away $20 bills. She barely had time to shake Francoise's hand, extend her racket to the referee's stand, and grab a Pepsi before the media made her pay for her triumph - a payment she was happy to make, only the Fourth Estate had to wait until she called her father on the phone and told him the good news. Later, while Chris entertained · the reporters in the press area, her Uncle Joe was holding court at the Leslie Hunt match (Hunt being Chrissie's probable next opponent) outside . the stadium on one of the field courts. There he was, standing on a folding chair peering through the mesh fence, resplend1;nt in his lucky blue, green and pink plaid pants and working overtime on a Gold Seal cigar - Joe Sinnott, the godfather of the Larchmont Mafia, Chrissie's most prejudiced and loyal fan club. untracked herseif and staged one of her patented comebacks to knot the set at 4..,all. But Hunt bore down and t-ook the next two games and the set, by 6-4. That made three straight ma,tcbes in which Chrissie had dropped the initial set. The gallery wasn't worried, though, concerned a little, but nc,t sweating. Unperturbed as ever, Chds assumed eommand of th~ second set· by taking advantage of Leslie's consistently missed frrst serve, winning the important long rallies, and easing the fears of the crowd with a 6-2 verdict. The third set was rough, however. Ahead 3-1, Chrissie let Hunt even tJ.. score at 3-3, but that's as close as she came to the lead as Chris ripped off three in a row and won the match. Meanwhile, Billie Jean King was winning her match and the stage was set for the biggest match-up of the Open: Evert vs. King in the semi-finals. The tournament directors couldn't have asked for more; the top seed against the top sensation, age against beauty, David against Goliath. Who needs Rod Laver? That night on the 11 o'clock Eyewitness News there were two quo.tes that summed up the feelings of many as the .showdown approached. When asked about the coming match with the kid from Florida who was fashioning her own storybook saga on the lawns of Forest Hills, Billie Jean simply replied, \I don't read fairy tales.\ Chrissie, on the other hand, was asked what she was looking forward to in the coming year, after Forest Hills. The asker of the question was none other than Jim Bouton, of BaU Four fame and Eyewitness anchorman Roger Grimsby's right hand wiseguy. Innocently enough, Chrissie answered, \rd like to go to Wimbledon next year, that would be interesting, I've never been abroad.\ Bouton leaped at his chance, \Folks she's too nice to be a broad.\ Friday: . Conclusion ... The King match, Spiro Agnew, Howard Cosell, Jim Evert returns to Forest HiUs, and Chrissie loses badly in badminton. An Independent's View Of Fraternity Life Editor's Note: We apologize for our inability to present ·a b!llanced coll$i(feration of the fraternity•independent issue, , and we, again, cite the overwhelming lack of resp~ilse to our requests for articles from the fraternities, as weD as from independents. bY GEORGE :OAIN Not only are fratern~ties secret t:tnd exclusive organizations, but their existence over the years is responsible for the lack of a student center at Union. That secret societies should have ever existed here in the first place is que$tionable; that they shc;~uld be abolished now is imperative. Every college owes to its st,udents more than just a good academie structure. Outside of the classroom, the college is responsible for providing every student the same ''social and cultural\ opportqntties. There is a crying need now for places on this campus where students can mingle outside of their rooms - a place to get food any time of the day, to read a paper, watch TV, play a game, or just see other stu~ents in a relaxed atmosphere. . . •. . Schaffer Library and the 'Skellar do not proVIde these servtces. But fraternities .. did . for r;nany. yeais, : . and because they accommodated such a iarge percentage of the student body' the college did not feel obligated to provide a campus center, or anything else, for the community as a whole. • Instead, the college shunned its responsibility and t:tllowed the ' fraternities to nieet the needs of the students outside of the classroom. Now it is impossible for fraternities to serve the entire student body. If every student wanted to join a fraternity, the houses would be glutted - over 100 persons to a house, and some of those people would be women, who are excluded anyway by the nature of the organization. Still, fraternities continue at Union, serving the .needs of and providing benefits for only their individual members and doing nothing for' the campus community as a whole. And since the college has its responsibility to the entire campus community, iis first step in the direction of improving campus social life should be the elimination of fraternities. Making all · students · \independents\ would eliminate the unfortunate distinction that now exists, and that might help to foster a better sense of community on this campus. Then the college could proceed with improving the life of all its students outside of classes - more events happening here during the week and on the weekends, more to choose from at Union when orte is tired of studying. , These events and opportunities wol,lld be open to the entire campus, not as it is now in fraterniti~s that choose wboll,l they wish to serve and then serve only those chosen few. The call is for greater awareness of the college's responsibility to provide the ~alll.e, good social opportunities for all its students. If a person wants to join a fraternity - and is accepted by that fraternity - then he receives whatever that house has to offer. But if he decides to remain \independent\ and finds his extta~urricular options limited, then the college is negligent. If this sounds radical, then it is. Can it socialistic. The college has its responsibility to all the students, and the secret organizations that benefit only the few are detrimental to the community as a whole. Eliminate the fraternities, and rechannel the time, effort, and money spent on them towards the entire student body. Then we'll have more to do here- on Tuesday afternoon and Saturda,y night. And don't believe you can~t get a good clo$e feeling among a bunch of .people on a dorm floor, or even a close relationship with someone in another building. That \brotherhood\ is exclusive to fraternities is a lot of crap. Monday afternoon Chrissie met French women's star Francoise Durr, in the stadium (where else?), in a match that would send the winner into the quarter-finals and the loser packing. After one game the mood had been established, Durr had to ask the referee to quiet the crowd. Poor Frankie never had a chance. Even before she and Chris showed up for their match, there were eleven photographers, three movie cameras, and a creepy-peepy at center court waiting. There were also over 10,000 people in the stands who had braved or disregarded an early morning rainstorm to be on hand. The Larchmont Mafia is made up of aU direct 'descendants, and their in-laws, of Grandpa and Grandma Thompson, who started the family off by raising ten kids in the Larchmont-New Rochelle area of New York. Comprised of good Catholic stock, the family is well populated, and now that the founding Thompsons are gone, Joe, the ranking in-law, commands the family. Chrissie and her mother were staying at the Sinnott's house for the tournament, so with the hottest sports property in the country as a boarder, Uncle Joe was in his element. \Why Are We In Viet Nam?\ As Chris and Francoise warmed up, the noise from below of churning color TV film and clicking high~priced foreign cameras was met from above with humming Bell & Howe]] movie machines and snapping Instamatics. And every lens was focused on Chrissie. Once the match started, Francoise had barely a friend in the house. There wasn't much Chris could do wrong in the crowd's eye, they loved her and cheered anything good that happened to her, including every shot that Francoise missed. At first, it looked as though Miss Dun:- wasn't listening and she breezed to a 6-2 victory in the first set. The gallery quieted down and the cameramen· started taktng pictures of each other. Then Chrissie turned the match around 180°, blasting away from the baseline, dropping shots just over the net, and beating Francoise's forehand almost at will. The But Joe wasn't alone, the newspaper and TV boys were having a field day, too. That night, Chris led off every sports report on all 6 and 11 o'clock news shows. Channel 5, WNEW, ran a five minute segment on Chris and the Durr match on its 10 o'clock report. The next day her picture was on the front page of the New York Post and plastered all over the inside of the Daily News. The Cinderella thing was shifting into high gear. Wednesday afternoon, with five movie cameras and eleven photographers recording their every move, Chrissie and Leslie Hunt took the court for their quarter-final match. They were dressed for the part; Chris was wearing lace, Cinderella threads, while Miss Hunt came on strong in a sleeveless shirt and shorts ensemble - a nice outfit for a handball champion. While the large stadium crowd made an effort to make lip for its bad behavior in the Durr match, Miss Hunt, with arms not unlike a golden gloves contender, wasn't exactly a target for affection. Opening the match on the offensive, Leslie ran off to a surprisingly easy 4-1 lead, benefiting from some lousy tennis by Chris, who finally The Story of the Thieu Election by Harry Lessin. We now· know, as reported in the world press, that Nguyen van Thieu was re-elected President of the Republic of South Vietnam by a 95% majority of the vote. It was a one man race. How Thieu came to power is an interesting story in itself. Four years ago, Thieu was elected President in the ftrst \free\ elections in · South Vietnam in years. Many observers were present. They declared that the election wasn't rigged. A few little things, however, were overlooked. One was that Thieu's major opponent was thrown into. jail and has not yet been released. Here's another: According to Vietnamese law, the parliament must certify the election as legal. The parliament did not want to certify Thieu's election. Thieu had a simple remedy, he simply sent 20 soldiers into the parliament while it was in session and trained their machine guns )ll the major opponents-: Thieu was immediately recognized as the legal President. · Even that election was nothing compared to the trickery and deceit employed by Thieu to win this year's \contest.\ Two major opponents stood· in Thieu's way. They were General \Bi.g\ Minh and Thieu's-own Vice President, Nguyen tao Ky. First, Thieu rammed a law through Parliament that effectively made it legally impossible for Ky to tun for President. A few weeks later, General Minh, s~eing what a farce the election actually was, withdrew. The United States as w~ll as Thieu was now faced with a one candid ate \free\ election.. This embarrassea us to such an extent that Ambassador Ellsworth Bunker reportedly offered General Minh hundreds of thousands .of dollars to run. He refused. The immediate problem Thieu had to solve was how to make a one-man election look democratic. He proposed a solution that looked eminently fair. If he didn't get 50% of the vote, he would resign. This is fine until one · takes a look at the South Vietnamese election procedure. If one votes, one gets a card saying he has voted. If he doesn't vote, he doesn't get a card. So if voters did not vote for Thieu, they did not get the card. Without a card he is ostracized and looked at with suspicion. He is also called a Communisi and soldiets could come into his I house and shoot him on general principles. Since the voter's future was relatively uncertain if he did not cast his ballot for Thieu, Thieu got 95% of the vote. A question comes to mind: \Why are we in Vietnam?\ A common answer is to insure that the people of South Vietnam have a democratic mode of government They must be able to choose who governs them. Some choice, thieu or a firing squad. Are we in Vietnam to protect the Vietnamese people from an oppressive government? Are we there to protect them from totalitarianism? Are we there to protect them from a government whose only goal is to keep themselves in power? If any of. these is the case, we have failed miserably in allowing Thieu to rig this farce of an election. The results are unfortunate for U.S. prestige because they have further soldified World opinion against our hopeless position in Vietnam. They are even more unfortunate for the people of South Vietnam who have to endure four more years under a government that is as bad, if Dbt worse, than the regime that presently controls the tlorthern part of the Republic {)f Vietnam. ] 4 c ( ( ( ( r c s J a t c j q r· d v ) d 1 ~ b d St iJ tl e: h n tl it $j n 0 fi te A diffl one new we 1 has fall, Aft I esse prol ned of C< Tl bec<J casu of t' mor' atro of f Mid gene East our mili1 milli star, argu gett M ofteJ hum tensi utteJ Stat' Rae: peoJ who cont

. CONCORDIENSIS, OCT.13,1971 Page 5 Phone Company- A Morning's Play byALandJOE \This is tbe phone compa11y, we're removing your extension, or whatever it is.\. That's the way it was; Thursday, October 7, 8:45 l:l.m. THE PLACE: 352 Fox, the domicile of four unassuming and qui.etly sleeping Union College students. THE SCENARIO: Joe was asleep, as were Al, Ed anq George. We have since been informed by a reliable source that two guys had been knocking, a better word would perhaps be pounding, on our door for five minutes> What happened then still remains shrouded in mystery. Our phone rang once, and then stopped. Joe was sure that Al or George had answered it, and Ed was still asleep (as were Al aod Ge01:ge, but Joe didn't know that). Several minutes later a rhythmic pounding, closely resembling the sound that a wrecking ball on Madison Avenue makes, was heard on oUr inner .bedroom door. Ed rolled over, George implored the God of sound .to stop t:Qe noise, AI woke up, and Joe waid, \What do you want?'' 't!tinkipg: t~at h~ was talking to Al or George. Ed · rolled over again. · · . · The reply resounded ·through the auter room, \It's the phone company, We had a report of trouble on the line.\ Joe began to shake and got out of bed. AI began to shake, but he wasn't moving. Joe then fumbled around for some scissors, cut the extension line and threw the phone into the closet. He then put on his yellow bathrobe, which he reserved for special occasions, and innocently opened the door. It was then that the phone started ringing again. As the door was inched open, one of the phone company's finest quietly said, \Well it's alright now.\ \AU I ask is that, in the · midst of a murderous world, we agree to reflect on murder and make a choice. After that, . we can distinguish those who accept the consequences of being murderers themselves or the accompices of murderers, , .and those who refuse to do so with all their force and being.\ -'-CAMUS . \' * * * A vigil will be held on Wed, Oct. 13, Na,tional Mor~torium Day, from 9 to 12 a.m., at the· Library P.Jaza. It will take the form of a personal statement ' of dedication to those who have suffered. and died in Vietnam, East Pakistan, and the rest of the W odd. Some will meditate silently, some will fast. The decision is yours .... At 12:00 A.M. the Schenectady Peace Center is sponsoring anti-war activities at Veterans Park (State & · · Albany Streets, at N ott Terrace), a continuation of · the vigil, and possibly a i guerrilla theatre. · Student Social Action Committee Volunteer math tutors are needed for the Upward Bourid follow-up program which is held each Saturday in the Humanities Building from 10 until 12. These - high school students are anxious to learn but are badly in need of help on a one to one basis. You may sign up to V«.>lunteer in the AOC office located in the Geology Building between 2:00 a,nd 4:00 Monday through Friday. * * * * On Saturday, Oct. 16, the incredible Union College Coffeehouse will present Alan Stowell of Wildflowers and Tom Parisi, at 8:30 in the Nott Memorial. Admission is SOe, but the coffee and donuts are still free. Note: the coffeehouse this week is in NOTT MEMORIAL, not Old Chapel. \' * * * All those members of the National Ski Patrol who plan on going to the Brodie Mountain refresher this Sunday, please see Ginny Bade (301 North) as soon as possible. The Schenectady PYE Club will meet on Thursday, October 14 in the Social Sciences Lopnge at 7:30 P.M. All persons Needless to say, Joe was shocked. Who had let Ma Bell's representatives into the room? When he asked them what they were doing they replied calmly, \We're disconnecting your extension, or whatever it is.\ Joe shook, AI shook and Ed rolled over again. After disconnecting the extension wires they left. Joe was ready to destroy George for leaving the door open when he went to his class. The only problem with that is that Geotge didn't have a class, he was asleep, and the door had been locked. Joe pulled Ed out of bed, got AI to pull George out of bed and exclaimed, \How the hell did they get into the room!'' We were determined to find the solution to this question. Music To Sit Still In A Stoned Stu-por By by LEAPIN' We knew that Mark, the R.A., would never let the Bell Company into our room without our consent, and .the maid hadn't gotten there yet. The campus police wouldn't come in without permission either, but the administration might have let them in if one of them had been there. So - it was off to Pean Malloy's office. Of course., - no one there knew how they got in either. The difference between the Flying Burrito Brothers and the music commonly heard on \Hee Haw\ is negligible. Why most people consider the latter to be a bag of shit but thought the Burritos were \really great shit, Mrs. Presky\ is beyond me. Eventually the men were found and questioned. It turns out that they had~ key. How they got it is the logical question. It seems that it was given to them a couple of years ago when they were doing !lOme. work in the building, and the people who issued the key are no longer here. To make a long story short, John Kleinkauf, head of campus security, has told us that the key has been taken away from them, and that it will not be reissued. The pedalsteel guitar was reminiscent of the background music on Tammy Wynette's hit records. The bass fiddler in the Burritos' bluegress sessions bears a remarkable resemblance to Archie Campbell of the TV show's barbershop routine. (Speaking of look-alikes, wasn't that David Crosby singing \Wild Once again the forces of good have triumphed over the forces of evil. To show that we hold no grudges we invite aU interested telephone company employees to the 352 club. Bring your own key. Moratorium: A Time for Humanity . - And Individual Commitment by Christopher MandeviUe Autumn has come again, and, as the cliche goes, different colours of leaves herald a changing time in one sphere of Nature. In Man's sphere of Nature a new day of national moratorium is proposed and we may be prompted to wonder at the change that has taken, or is taking, place in Man's sphere as the fall offensive of the peace movement gets underway. A few more .major tragedies have occurred, a few lesser tragedies and deaths, and some .of the old problems still hang on at our elbows or around our necks. We of humanity react with varying degrees of concern and commitment. The Vietnam war is winding down, but, as it becomes hidden as an issue in the decreasing casualties on \our\ side and the withdrawal of some of the American troops, many Americans find it more difficult to react with conViction against the atrocities that are still being perpetrated in the name of freedom. The tension and the killing in the Middle East continue to confront the world. The genocide committed by the West Pakistani Army in East Pakistan continues with hardly a word from our government, while the U.S. continues to ship military supplies to West Pakistan. Eight or nine million refugees are crammed into an already starving corner of India and governmental agencies argue for almost three months over which one will get to implement a relief program. Meanwhile, at home it isn't much better. (It is often forgotten that the world is our home and humanity our people.) Men are killed in the streets, tension increases, and society shrugs its shoulders, uttering simple phrases about law~and-order. Kent State is whitewashed by our \Justice\ Department. Racism and poverty continue whether or not our people wish to admit them. Repression of those who oppose· the maintenance of the status quo continues. George Jackson dies at San Quentin, as do the criminal \animals\ at Attica. Hostages are taken by \animals\ and their throats are slashed; and when the autopsies show that the hostages were killed by bUllets, so many people find it bard to accept. Our society continues to condemn people to the inhumanity of an archaic system to isolate them from society, while not improving their chances of. .becoming what society chooses to define as human. COULD IT BE THAT WE HAVE FORGOTTEN THE HUMAN SUFFERING INVOLVED IN ALL THESE TRAGEDIES? It is not easy to protest an established order, but so1netitnes the human element is lost in the midst of attempts to change a sometimes cruel and inhuman system. CAN WE POSSIBLY REMEMBER THAT HUMANITY (for that matter LIFE) IS . INVOLVED, THAT THERE IS SUFFERING, THAT WE SHOULD FEEL GRIEF AT THE LOSS TO ALL? And shall we remember so many more instances of suffeling of which we do not know? October 13 On Wednesday, October 13, the day of Moratorium, it might be good for us to consider the human suffering in the world. On that day there will be a vigil on campus, remembering and sharing in the tragedy of so many people around the world. I will take part for I feel that in the quest for peace I must take time out to remember with a feeling of grief that others suffer far more than I shall ever know. I feel the need to share that commitment with others. Nobody's course should be dictated, and obviously there are different opinions as well as different levels of commitment. But I do hope that others might take some time from their normal activities to demonstrate a concern for a wider community than Union, and its welt-being. Horses?\) Those who dug the bluegrass I banjo ... and-mandolin gigs would equally enjoy \Pickin' and Grinnin',\ with \Hee Haw\ hosts Buck Owens and Roy Clark picking up the pieces. Sure, comparisons of the Flying Burrito Bros. to Poco and Seatrain (violin) are inevitable. But gimmicks are conspicuously absent from the Burritos' act. Foot-stomping and hand- clapping endeavours by restless audiences are doomed to failure in a Burrito concert, because the gtoup is concerned only with good, short tunes that emphasize their togetherness . rather than individual jams that make other groups seem dynamic. Mter more than two hours of pure, blissful \Hee Haw\ music, I felt too down-to-earth good to get up and plead for an encore. It's too bad that so many people at Friday's concert, into \today's concert scene,\ had the adrenalin flowing so strongly that they had to be told to settle back and quit clapping, just enjoy! The Partners Continued from Page 3 as two bumbling detectives Adams is Maxwell Smart again, only this time with a male sidekick. Crosse is funny, but he's no Barbara Feldon. This show is going to die before it has a chance uliless NBC rescues it from All in the Family's time slot. The Good Life (NBC) - Larry Hagman (I Dream of Jeanne) and Donna Mills are a young, middle class couple who drop out of the rat race and become butler & maid for a millionaire and his sister. A sleeper, literally. The D.A. (NBC), starring Robert Conrad (Wild, Wild West) as a crime-busting deputy district attorney (so Why isn't the show ca1led The Deputy D.A.?) - Jack Webb in the courtroom; fastpaced, no-nonsense and very predictable. The Funny Side (NBC) - the only really new idea for a show; five different types of couples all looking at the same problems. Queenie Smith and Burt Mustin, as the Geritol ·-:generation team are great. The rest of the show however, needs vitamins. interested in becoming a member of PYE are welcome, along with anyone interested in helping with the PACE ll recycling project on Saturday, October 16. * * * * Representatives of the following institutions will be on {amp us to meet with seniors: October 18 - University of Rochester, Graduate School of Business Administration. October 21 - New York University, Graduate School of Business Administration. October 26 - Cohlmbia University, Graduate 'School of Busin~s Administration. Cornell University, Graduate School of Business and Public Administration. November 23 Syracuse University; Graduate School of .Business Administration. October 29 - U.S. Navy Recruiting Station; A Navy officer will be present to talk with students interested in the Navy. ... * * * This Thursday, as usual, the Vigil for Peace in Viet Nam will be held from 12 to l in Veterans' Park in Oowtown Schenectady. All are welcome. Please come and make a stand for peace, and life. \' * * * FILM WORKSHOP is planning a showing of student films. All members, past or future, who have 8, super 8, or 16mm. films please contact Mark Urman ·immediately at 261 Davidson or, by phone at 370- 0669. Ironside Continued from Page 3 7:30, but supporting players and time slots make little difference with Raymond Burr in the title role (quick, who played Paul Drake in Perry Mason?). 1 hear snickering in the back of the . room over Adam-l2's residence on this list, but for pure continuous action it's the fastest moving half hour on the tube. On the other hand, the strangest, scariest, and creepiest hour belongs to the Twilight Zone's favorite zany Rod Serling (who loves to sip a cool Genesee whenever he gets back East). Serling's Night GaDery is a weekly thing this year and if you can warm t-o episodes like a 'fraidy cat grown man being locked in his bedroom with a furry, dog-sized spider, this one is for you. Finally, variety shows are down to 4 this year. Ed, Larry, Johnny, Pearl and the gang succumbed to Nielson's Disease last Spring, leaving Flip, Carol, Glen and Deano. Chalk one ·up to prejudice, I can't stand Martin or Campbell. Wilson and Burnett, on the other hand, have very entertaining shows. P. Y.E. Cont'd Continued from Page l Maintenance and Science and Engineering bUlldmgs. Arrows will.be put up at all entrances !o the campus to direct traffic to the site. If this .Saturday's results indicate that area residents have a true desire to recycle, then efforts will be made to continue P.A.C.E. on a monthly basis. Items to be collected are as follows: 1) Ferrous and aluminum cans, cleaned, crushed, and with labels removed 2) White, green, and amber bottles, also cleaned, and with metal rings removed from the necks 3) Newspapers and magazines. It is hoped that the ptvious interest of the student body and the people of Schenectady will help to make PACE II even more successful than PACE I.

Page 6 CONCORDIENSIS, OCT.13, 1971 An Open Letter to the Student Body: As the Director of Student Aid at Unioq College for the past two years, I have become concerned over some of the rumors and misunderstandings regarding financial assistance its detetrnination, its continuance, changes that might occur from year to year in a financial aid \package\ and the function of the Committee on Student Aid, the Committee \on Admissions and the Financial Aid Officer in arriving at determinations for each individual student. It is my strong hope that this letter will serve the purpose of creating a greater Ut?-derstanding• about this matter and, perhaps, dispel some of the myths and misunderstandings that seem to grow out of proportion all too readily. Here are a few of the common ones: I. Following some .rigid formula, scholarships .are cut automatically from year to year. That changes and adjustments in amount and kind of financial assistance can occur in some cases is true. There are valid .explanations for this to follow. 2. Tbe assistance that a student receives as a freshman wiD continue as a guaranteed grant for the four years. In most instances, aid will continue providing the student meets the criteria for renewal, though not necessarily in amount and kind. More later. 3. That increases in tuition and other costs are absorbed completely by the family and the student. Much of the increased costs are absorbed by the College by adding a portion of the increased tuition income to the scholarship bud.get and by adding the increased costs to the individual student's budget befo.re a financial aid determination is made by the College Scholarship Service and the Financial Aid Officer. 4. Now that we enticed yo. here with our financial aid allocation, the College turns its back on you in the upper class years and tells you to fend for yourself financially. The record of eontinuing aid for four years in most instances denies An Open Letter On Student Aid Student. Aid all endeavor · to distribUte these substantial but certainly not unlimited funds in the most equitable, fair and broadest manner po!lsible among the many deserving students. Presently, almost a third of the student bociY is receiving direct scholarship heJp from the that statement. Class of '72- 80% who received aid as 2. Family income is the first Freshmen are on aid this year. and primary source of suppor·\ 5. Scholarship funds are' for college education, but its unlimited in amount. Union is a accumulated assets, if any, must rich college and is in a position also be considered. to meet the incJeased cost of 3. In determinirtg this ability to running the College without any pay, the need analysis considers trouble. I am sure aU .of you are the size of the family and the aware of the plight that all extraordinary expenses and colleges, including · places like circumstances that exist within Harvard, Columbia, Cornell, etc. each. particular family situation. are in, in trying to meet the 5. The CSS analysis provides crunching deficits that are an ,estimate of a family's ability increasing each day. The tuition to pay, and, like any system that you pay covers only 49% of designed to process a number of the cost to the College in your different cases, it must follow a education. The 51% comes from standard set of procedures. other outside sources, gifts, * * * * endowments, some federal and 4. It assumes that the student state funds, etc. has an obligation to assume a . \' * * * responsibility for a portion of his A brief description of the concepts and procedures underlying the financial Need Analysis of the College Scholarship Service ts fundmental in trying to understand this matter with any degree of knowledge. The CSS is an adjunct of the College Entrance Examination Board and its function is to process and evaluate a student's financial capacity to meet the costs of attending college. The primary purpose of financial aid programs and, therefore, of financial need analysis, is to permit college attendance by students who otherwise couldn't afford to pay these expenses, or at best, pay only a portion thereof. The CSS system of need analysis is based on the following assumptions. 1. Parents have an obligation to pay for the education of their children to the extent they are able to do so. . This runs the gamut from a contribution of zero dollafs to the other extreme where the resources are such that a family can afford the entire cost~. And, of course., the great grouping in between. or her costs of education - the selfhelp idea. This obligation .is reflected through a systematic expectation of contributions from a student's own savings and employment. Union College joins the many colleges that subscribe to the CSS concept of financial NEED, which states that need must exist in order to be considered for financial assistance, be it a direct scholarship, loan, or job, all of which are components of financial assistance - a consideration lost sight of by a number of people who limit financial assistance to the scholarship grant only. Awarding aid beyond need violates the letter and the spirit of this agreement between colleges and, in addition, this practice would only result in depriving deserving students with need of help. t The need anaylysis system provides an estimate of the amount of financial sqpport that a family can contribule for college at the time the Parents' Confidential Statement is submitted. The required yearly filing of this document reflects changes that may occur in individual circumstances. Differing imputs such as increased or reduced family income, increased or decreased Regents and other outside awa;rds, changes in family assets, gre~ter expectations from summer earnings~ increase or decrease in the number of children in college, etc., all have an influence ·on the final need computation. These are some of the prime reasons for different aid packages. For example: A family with an income of $14,000, a two-child family with ' both children in college would contribute approximately $1,700 for each of the students. The following year, one had graduated. Now the total f~mily College. The financial assistance contribution increases to percentage is significantly higher approximately $2,500~ I~ is very when we .include students who evident that the . financtal need . are receiving loans and jobs .. and the award wdl be reduced. Another uncertainty always The scholarship is not being exists - the amount of Fed¢ral . ''cut\. but is being adjusted ror money we are allocated under the the changed famtly National Defense Student Loan circumstances. If the process Program, the Economic were reversed, the award would Opportunity Grant and College increase. Work Study programs. We have I I . In addition to a been receiving on the average of demonstrated financial need as 60% of requested funds. Our own computed .above, additional Union College Loan Program criteria are used in the upperclass has been reduced to repayments financial aid renewalS - the only this year due to out releasing contribution that a student our own lo.ans funds to close the makes to the College in the gap between the NDSL academic and/ or extra,currlcular allocation and the amount areas and a continuing needed to .meet the increasing demonstration of the same needs of it~ students within the personal qualities that were the last three years. basis for the award intitially. The In closing, I would like to Committee on Student Aid make a few final points: employs these objectiv.e- I. The judgment of the subjective measurements in financial aid officer still prevails arriving at their in the final analysis and when recommendations to the Director unforseen circumstances occur of. Student Aid in packaging an after fLiing the PCS document award from one year to the next. 1 that result in radically changing III. A third determinant is a the original family circumstances, budgetary one. As I alluded a review is cetailily in order and earlier, the financial distress to the extent that funds allow, signals are flying on all college adjustments are made. campuses today. This is a reality 2. A comparison of awards that must be accepted. with other students is invalid and. Adjustments and accomodations, invidious in most cases. Unless at least temporarily, on the part one has all the factual data of all segments of the college available, this game is community are necessary in indefensibly speculative, and order that this storm can be because of that, a source of weathered. The funds supporting unsupported rumors and Union•s Scholarship programs conCl~sions that can only serve come from three main sources: 1) to detract from the mut1,1al Endowed scholarships which confidence and trust that must provide direct funds from exist among the Financial Aid earnings on investments, 2) · Office, The Committee on annual scholarships whfch Student Aid, The Committee on provide direct funds to be used Admissions and the Student from year to year, 3) college Body. scholarships which are· funds 3. The Office of Student Aid drawn directly from . the exists to serve you - the Union operating budget. The growth of Student - that is its sole these three sources have been purpose. ·My office is an stunted, if you will, due to the \open-door\ operation. You are generally depressed economic welcome to come in and sit down and market conditions. We are to discuss your particular compelled to · operate the problems. I can't promise you Financial Aid Office on a. budget that all of your problems will be just like any other dep1,1rtment on resolved. but at least a better campus. The Admissions understanding might result. Committe~, The Com~ttee on Joseph T. Maras Student Aid and the Dtrector of · .LUIGI'S REST-AURANT SPECIALIZING IN Italian • American Food • f25 BARRETT ST. Schenectady Dl 6-9744 Enjoy Sizzling Steaks and Chops Visit Our Cocktail Btir DALE JEWELERS The most ·Meaningful Semester you'll ever spend. o o could be the one on World CamP.us Afloat The More You Know About Diamonds The Better We Can Serve You 163 JAY ST. Just Off State St. 372-0540 Tues. & Thurs. 'til 9 . Sailing Feb. 1972 to Africa and the Orient Through a transfer format, more than 5,000 students from 450 campuses have participated for a semester in this unique program in inter· national education. NuSbaum's Peter Pause ·Restaurant WCA will broaden your horizons, literally and figuratively •.. and give you a better chance to make it-meaningfully-in this changing world. You'll study at sea with an experienced cos- mopolitan faculty, and t~eli during port stops you'll study the world itself. You'JI discover that no matter how foreign and far·away, you have a lot in common with people df other lands. \Ouifi~r's to Men and Young Men\ 447-451 STATE ST • . SCH.ENECTADY 535 Nott Street WCA isn't as expensive as you might think; we've done our best to bring it within reach of most college students. Write today for free details. TEACHERS: Summer travel with credit for teach· ers aild administrators. California 92666 / Ql in Tl year meel even wee} La a 36 R.P. altho trour Alba later meet who meas Th R.P.: 1959, McC healt hard chan' Sc ll The soccer of the 4-3 sc to be team. The defens take a skill c aroun' half. Uni minut1 but tl the 1 their the tw Aftc State had I soccer appea age. The to 1-2 take tl Satut< impro away indent

Quarterback Bob Mitchell throwing one of his 22 passes in the Homecoming Football Game. Mitchell completed 11 for 22 in the game. . X-Country Continued ftom Page 8 The trouble once again this year is training time. R.P.l. had a meet under its belt before Union even started practicing three weeks ago. Last year, the Garnet dropped a 36-22 dual meet decision to R.P.I. early in the season, although ·union went on to trounce the Engineers in the Albany Invitational \· few weeks later and tie them .n the State meet without ace Tim McCabe, who was in the hospital with measles. The last time' Union beat R.P.I. in cross-country was m 1959, by the score of 19-36. With McCabe back in form and a healthier Nesbitt, plus a week of hard work, the Garnet have a chance to beat the Engineers. Soccer Team Loses· Opener The Union junior varsity soccer team lost its opening game of the season last Saturday by a· 4-3 score to what was supposed to be the Albany State freshman team. The Garnet combined a good defense and steady offense to take a 2-1 halftime lead, bu! the skill of the State players turned around . the game in the second half. Union led 3-2 with four minutes remaining in the game, but the defense staggered, and the Danes leaderless because their coach' was ill, knocked in the two winning goals. After the game, some of the State players admitted that they had previously played semi-pro soccer, and several of them appeared to be over 25 years of age. . The Albany record improved to 1-2, and the Garnet yearlings take their 0-1 record to RPI next Saturday. Unless the defense improves, Union's home and away records will become indentical. Keep in tune with Union College - Listen to WRUC - Union Radio, 6:40 A.M. It's got the kind of music and information you'd like to hear. LOWEST YOUTH FARIS TO EUROPE •165 round-trip jet from New York For only $165* round trip, _ Icelandic Airlines jets you from New York to Luxembourg in the heart of: Europe for best connec- tions to everywhere. Effective for youths aged 12 ·thru 29. Book within 30 days of departure. Also, check our Youth Fares to Norway, Sweden, Denmark, Eng- land and Scotland. Major credit cards accepted. See your travel agent! Mail coupon! *Add $10 one way for departures within ten days before and after Christmas and Easter and dur- ing summer season. Fares and conditions subject to change. -----------------------------· To: Icelandic Airlines 630 Fifth Ave., N.Y., N.Y. 10020 (212) PL 7·8585 Send folder CN on Lowest Youth Fares to Europe 0 'Name'~------- Street----~--­ CitY-~------- State _____ zJp __ My travel ~gent is_~--- ICELANDIC lOFTUIBIR -a· FOR LIQUOR & WINE try JAKE LIPSTEIN'S 464 State Street FR 4-1888 lib ' ;>. 'it: 41\ i.dW<nlf''\' Union's Curtis Rowe, (Numbs 44 with. ball) rushing for _the Garnet during their 21-13 defeat at the hands of Rochester, who remams unbeaten. ·-------~-·---·-·------------------------, occwol /ttt Ta'f £+/ Sch'r :3 '\ - .)./ b :2. II N : /O om . ~ pm /b Olin- ? .J'Op~-H .S#f) { Jl D!Dc/(f a ~\i 'I=~ CO!fflfu..i) Throe,'), fJ,,g O!Jttrk~7 0 { e,D<j·,...plt l?<'t:<>rel U.) w: ~,.e pleostso/ /c J)1/roduce. 1-o f), II' ..fcJ,ellecla..d~ ctt\~t::t. .St~»>(\ o+ 'f/,e h~sf ::Jaz::z J f2~~me 1 t:Jtho/ 1.! It~~ ar J;sf:s. '\' Am&>,...,c~. moerJ' C) { i-heso. Y\e/PaSeS o,rt? &IHe'/110.,/C+IrJ)~ {'t-t>m oo11 o ~h n- .S()ur€,.e. Reo. C)ar'1 DatiiS / ina Ron her, 8/Jnd IJ)c;kC:j ~a.~s IAJo.ller, Scoff JOp)m. 1 J..e~elhPI/1 1 BJJN.b/ J.. em6~ ::li?if:er-soY/. 1 c;otcl Mat't o V. ~ @C::S. /A)e J1t:1ve Y'PCard~d ...S'0\7-Ht? a/' ~l>.StP Cli'-~IJfS\ <'.Jt ~1-1r- Advt11 f- ~I C>&t.Ssf\l/e Ike/(/ tvlucA 1s tlte h\s{ ol.uk- IJt M~ )JI..s/ori (!) { lite 11h!tll\r..St?. /he ;n.L>o ,..lo,111;. ~c··' .. 1 t rt:Jf 111 C{1)1.Jid'r';, 1 Telflt? Q.f a. I'HH&IC ..ft>f,fr-ce_ I.S 'f-hetf ~~t1 /..t Q... Htor-e_ . moler:fi\U(; hf-€?olle<.m 1-ht>t\ H'cord l/ou 1 1. , We ha11e ~pes wJ,,,J, ~~ttHd as t::u.:curr::t:le 0 ,.., lA~ ;l. Oo 1-lt f lael'\'/ <U o 11. I' )e I sl (Jk''IICJ· t!\o .SS(' 1/1 s klvc> rea:.c h d!. ol 'f.:~ e f oir, r #11 Ae, e Cf {)t£ cc, hH t!J I ?-e l/ j )1 e of,f+e.re,.,ce tn-o. ,0 lfiJbc.dc bel-n fqpe and Jc:Je<n:-e, n, e.. 'YHMI!~ .se.vi'C/ C~t eolbullf:$..,. ... ~ IHII/11/t!' <\eeSSPI/.-) ohd 1-he I!Jntlle\''fk1ce. {'\ 'r\' J1.Pf/-tr- rlouclt ilte -/qfJe) ~he- a. t;()C)e:/ t::>Uck A- 44.'t~,...fh-wJuYe lhV,~IffleJtf. }4u a~t!' JHillled \ lis feH lo rfk-· Adv1?JtT ;2ol o;~ Skre() ..rouJtd_

Page 8 CO~C!JRDIENSIS, OCT.13, 1971 Sports Gridders Fan ·To 'Jackets 21-13· by LEAPIN A game, though unsuccessful, Garnet eleven put up a strong fight before bowing to the .. great\ Rochester Yellewjackets, 21-13, before Saturday's Homecoming crowd of approximately 5000 at Alexander Field. What statted out as a typical Rochester .rout turned, on one big play, into a rather sat~fying overall showing by the Dutchmeq and into something ()f a disappointment for the Yellowjackets. • Led. by eo-eaptaln Gary Moms, Union freshman halfback Ron Westbrook sweeps the nght s1de of the Dutc~men.Hne_in last Saturday's l143loss to the Rochester Yellowjaekets. Roch~ter ~cored all1t~ pom!s m the fwst half, and then held off a Union second half rally to register 1ts twelfth victory m a row over the last two seasons. The game was 52 seconds old when UR started where Alfred had left off last week against Union. 'Jacket quarterback Greg · Conrad hit end Bill Hammond, who would prove tough to cover all .day long, on a 45-yard pass on the second play from scrimmage. (photo by Bob J.ohnson) Booters Win In Ouertime, Immediately, a glaring weakness in the state~s number one team showed up as Dick Rasmussen missed the PAT leaving it at 6-0. ' Defeat U. of Rochester .2-0 the squad, Dusty had been pointing to the Rochester game. In his sophomore year Richards was in Brown's doghouse constantly and did not play regularly. At the end of the season Brown deprived the fleet striker of his letter, because of four days' growth decorating Dusty's chin. Each team turned the ball over four times, thrice apiece on interceptions. After the teams traded their first interceptions, Rochester took over at the Union 32 with 4:26 remaining in the first quarter. Six plays later, Conrad had to take it in himself by MARTY BERMAN Dusty Richards, in overtime, broke up a scoreless defensive duel and provided the Garnet soccer team with a 2-0 win over the University of Rochester Saturday. The victory was particularly satisfying as the Garnet had been pointing anxiously to this year's rematch with Gary Brown, the onetime Union boot mentor and now head coach for the Y ellowjackets. The Dutchmen will now carry a perfect 2-0 record into their home opener with Hamilton, today at 2:30 p.m. on George Daley Field. · The game was evenly played throughout, although Rochester was surprisingly tough and, not surprisingly, well coached. The 'Jackets controlled the game for a good part of the fourth quarter as they attempted to score the winning goal with the score deadlocked at 0-0. But Union's defense, led by Dave Kawecki· and Sandy Wilder, combined with netminder Jim Sletteland to thwart Rochester's efforts. In one instance, Kawecki saved the game when he slid under the Yellowjacket center forward and prevented him from putting the ball into the net. After looking dead and out of shape in the fourth period, the Dutchmen rebounded to destroy Roch~;:ster in both of the five minute overtime periods. Both of Richards' goals were from close in, as co-captain Art Fraser fed him two beautiful assists. Union switched to a three man line in overtime and moved co- · captain Paul Martini back to halfback. The move enabled the Garnet to control the center of the field and much of the play. It was moral justice for Richards to score and \beat Gary.\ More than anyone else on New Course Delight To Harriers, Rout Trinity 15-49 by MARK MINDEL In cross-country, the team with the lowest score wins, because the fmishing places of each of the first five runners on a team are added up, and the sums are compared. Thus, the faster each man runs, the lower is the score, and the better the team is. The lowest possible score a team can register is fifteen. On Saturday, Union College's crossRcountry· team did that and pulled a near-perfect \shut-out\ against an outclassed Trinity team. The Garnet placed the first six runners across the finish line to beat the Hartford team 15-49. The rout was worse than the score indicates, as Union placed twelve men out of the first thirteen, and all fourteen members of the squad had completed the 5.57 mile course before Trinity's third man trotted in. But cnly seven runners can \officially\ be recorded in displacing the other team's first five, so the \real\ score\ of 15-75 went unrecorded. Individually, frosh John Kearney won, giving the new course its first record, a time of 29:39. He was followed by tri- captains Bryant Moeckel, 30:08; Tim McCabe, 30:09; and Dave Rice, 30:15. Freshman roommates Jim Johnson, 30:26, and Jim Smith, 30:59, completed the ·Garnet sweep, while Union's Bob Nesbitt, Larry Heron, Bill Galarneau, Mark Slavin, Scott Kalina, and Wayne Roe all · outraced Trinity's second man to the tape. The split between winner Kearney and the fifth finisher, Johnson, was only 47 seconds, but that will have to be reduced against a tough R.P .I. team next Saturday if the Garnet expect to win. The R.P.I. meet is traditionally the biggest meet in the cross-country season, and if the harriers have just one meet to win, it is this one. Continued on Page 7 . on ·a busted play from the two . ' w1th 1 : 13 to go. Rich Parrinello, who totaled 132 yards on the day in only 17 carries, rolled out on a halfback option as Rochester went for the Homecoming Show_ with WOODY It . was apparently a cold ex-quarterback Dave Rearic who watched last Saturday's football game, covered With a blanket and in a wheelchair at the end of the Union bench. He had returned from Buffalo, where he underwent surgery on the knee injury that put him out for the rest of the season and he saw his former troops put on a damn good show. · ' Rochester may have extended its winning streak to 12 games, but the Garnet defense played an outstanding game, making it the :first real contest the Yellowjackets have seen in 1971. The Dutchmen defenders held the Rochester .offense that had averaged 42 points a game over the first three games this season to only 21 points and shut them out in the second half of Saturday's game. T~e game's second play from scrimmage ~ Rochester's 45 yard scormg pass - co~d have destroyed Union's morale, reminding them of the preVIous game against Alfred. But the defense immediately stiffened and denied the Yellowjackets the extra point. Having ~cored so quickly, Rochester could have made the game a rout. So 1t appeared from the stands, but the defense proved otherwise; they did not quit. Nor did the offense. Again, as against St. Lawrence Union showed it is a second half football team, outplaying its opposition ~by a 13-0 score. The play o_f the fired-up Dutchmen in the fourth qUarter even brought remmders of the Harvard-Yale tie or the Jets,.Raiders \Heidi\ game. Unfortunately, neither George Blanda or Frank Champi would appear in a Garnet uniform. The suspense might have been too much to bear. As it was Union had to put up with Rochester•s number 41, Lyle Fields. ' .. One !ect~on of the 50 yard line Garnet fans had singled out Benny F1elds for repeated cheers and adulation, and Benny apparently appreciated the noise. ~ut into ~he Rocheste~ defensive backfield, Benny broke up three Umon passmg plays durtng a fourth quarter Garnet drive. Perhaps the old basketball \psych section\ had better watch out whom they inspire in the future. The weather was threatening, and the Homecoming gathering should have been larger at the game. But at least the crowd behaved itself; no beer cans flew out of the stands onto the visitors' bench, as happened during the St. Lawrence game. Perhaps they're saving that up for the biennial plunder that is the trip to Troy. It will be RPI's Homecoming, and the Engineers- 23- 19 losers to Trinity on Saturday ~ will be looking for their first victory over Union since 1959. · two-point conversion. His pa~s was gobbl~d u,p by Hammon<J, who was all alone in the end · zone, and it was . 14-0 after one period. On a drive t:arly in the .se¢ond quarter, ColU'ad injured his left leg, and 5'8\ freshman Rich Renzi had to take over the Rochester reins. the Dutchman defense ti:ghtened and got possession on downs at the Unien four. But onthe next play, UR . recovered a Garnet fumble on the 15. _ Conrad then hobbled onto the field oil his one good leg to resume command. Despite a clipping penalty that set the 'Jackets back to the 27, halfback Tom Jarrett and fullback Russ Magere pushed for the first down at the five. Two plays later~ Jarrett plunged in. Rasmussen made good on the extra .point this time, and that was to be it for Rochester for the day. That was also the last time Conrad saw action. It can be said in the Yellowjackets' defense that they played without their quarterback in the second half, but a number one team shouldn't have to rely solely on a quarterback to score. Right after Rochester's second- half kickoff, Union marched from its 36 to UR's 16, where Bobby Mitchell's fourth-down pass was too long for a diving Bruce Mathias . But Renzi proved that he was unable to make the big play. Time and again, the Dutchmen were able to contain Rochester inside the Union 15, The big defensive effort was not in vain. Abruptly, the .Parnet came to life and 'brought the huge crowd to its feet. With 9:24 left in the contest, Mathias followed a wall of blockers on a screen pass and went 78 yards for the touchdown, cutting the margin to 21-7. Shortly thereafter, Rasmussen missed a 32-yard field-goal attempt (from the Union 22). Rochester then picked off a long Mitchell-to-Westbrook bomb at the UR 23, and the Yellowjackets drove again, only to be stopped again ~t the Union nine. Mitchell took over and filled the air with passes, hitting Jerry Cuffey and Cooter Utecht. On a fourth-doWn situation from the Rochester 15, Mitchell hit Ron Westbrook in the left flat, and the freshman raced into the corner of the end zone with 23 seconds left. The final: UR 21 . uc 13; ' Rochester entered the game averaging 42 points and 480 yards per game. They gained 374 on Saturday, against 314 for Union. Mitchell hit 11 of 22 passes for 207 yards. Next Saturday,-the Dutchmen visit arch rival RPI in Troy. The Engineers, though only 1-3 on the season, should give the Garnet secondary fits with its superb passing combination of Bob Baron to Kalle Kontson. FERRO PHARMACY 51$ Nott Street Schenectady, N. Y Ftt 7-0.SlO FOUNJAIN SERVICE One block from. lrownell Gate i f

Colkfe 1877 . . ~ ot_,lOl, No. r , 1 Price Twenty Cents . . -~ .. _ . ·1 SCHENECTADY' .NEW YORK. I O~TOBER 15, 1971 All-College Senate Meets First Test of New System The Social Committee presents Brewer and Shipley, an eveningoffolk musi.c, in concert at 8:30p.m. in Memorial Chapel on Saturday evening, October 23. Tickets are now on sale at the Student Activities Office. The price will be $3 for Union students with ID, in advance, and $4 for others and at the door. Tickets will be sold between the hours of 1:00 and 5:00p.m. only. by Howard Stone The newly constituted All-College Senate held its first meeting Wednesday afternoon, signaling the beginning of the test of the .Governance system instituted at Union last spring. One .of the first actions of the Senate was to allow representatives of Concordy and WRUC to observe and report its meetings. This. first meeting, as might be expected, was devoted to establishing procedures of operation and to the consideration of the proposed by-laws of the Senate. It was decided that a quorum necessary for conducting business would consist of a simple majority of the members of the Senate, and that a member may be represented by a proxy from his constituency, should he be unahle to attend a meeting. A problem arose concerning the fact that the Senate was to include in its membership .. the twa academic deans.\ This was correct at the time the Governance report was passed, but since that time, Dean Palmer has departed and at the present time there are three deans: Acting Dean Lichterman. Acting Dean Weifenbach, and Assistant Dean Olton. It was decided that any two of these could attend, with President Martin making any final determination necessary. Professor Ludwig raised a question about the Senate's ability to overrule a decision of the Agenda committee com:erning the labeling of matters as academic or non- academic, and it was clarified that the Senate can, by a two- thirds vote, change the designation. This is important, since the voting ratio of the Senate changes when non- academic matters are considered. Campus News Summary- Mounties, Student Senate The issue of greatest substance and controversy dealt with by the Senate concerned the matter of opening the meetings to all interested observers. As noted earlier, the Senate had to decide at the beginning of the session whether to allow observers from Concordy and WRUC. As the situation stands presently, no observers are allowed into ·the meetings. Instead a tape recording is made and put on dosed reserve in the library for anyone wishing to listen to it. Professor Niemeyer, citing the Division I meeting on the ·matter, moved that the Senate be opened up to allow all members of the College to be present if they so desired. Professor Robert Sharlet, of Political Science, indicating that he had sought the inclusion of a clause to keep the meeting closed in the original Governance report (which he co- authored), countered by saying that opening the meetings would inhibit \effective action\ and that he \would vigorously oppose this motion.\ Student Body President Dave Robbins declared that it was the .. overwhelming feeling of Senate Tuesday night's Student Senate meeting was primarily concerned with the Monday evening elections and the run- offs, Tuesday night. The results were. All College Senate: Division I: Guy Sacerdoti Division II: Dan Wolfe Division III: Steve Casella Division IV: Robin Waring At Large Member: Kate White Board of Trustees: Junior Member: Peter Pach Senior Member: Henry Kass Schaffer, a trustee of Union College, on October 22 at 5:00 p.m. in the Library. Everyone is urged to attend. Mountebanks The Mountebanks have announced their next production to be Jean Pirandous's Ondine. The leading lady and leading man are Daria Paul as Ondine and Steve Kronish as Hans respectively. Also in the major roles of the play are Judy Steinbach, Tom Horn, Chris Kennedy, Kathy Van Oort, and Jeff Wisoff. The complete cast includes forty-six people, in addition to the members of the various stage crews. There are openings on the crews of the play, so anyone interested please sign up in Nott Memorial. This term the Mountebanks are planning two productions. The first, Ondine, will be presented on Nov. 11, 12, 13, 17, 18, 19, and 20. The other, to be presented later in the term, is The Pottery Shed by Graham Greene. Tryouts for the latter play will be held next week, on Wednesday and Thursday afternoons. Sign up sheets will be placed in N ott Memorial. For all members of the Mountebanks, there will be a general meeting on Sunday, October 17th, at 3:00 p.m. the Student Senate\ that the S h ff L •b· p·1 . meetings be open and he cited · possible problems with the . C . a er · I rary an mechanics of the tape recorder as something to consider. He added that, should the situation arise, the Senate could at any time declare an Executive session, eliminating all observers. Professor Bick replied to this with the suggestion that in such a situation the Senate might be under such pressure that it wouldn't even be able to adjourn. Professor Willard Roth, Chairman of the B1ology Department, questwned what he thought was a feeling that the meetings were being kept secret, since both Concordy and W R U C were now being admitted and the tape was being made. He also questioned whether the Senate, in fact, had the right to discuss the question, since one of the conditions upon which the Faculty Council passed the Governance Report last spring was that the meetings be closed. In response to a question from Sharlet, Professor Ludwig stated that the main argument for open meetings was the principle of representative democracy, with constituents able to see their representatives at work. In addition, he suggested a compromise proposal which would allow a limited gallery of some .,pecified number to attend. Professor K.etcham suggested that the Senate give the existing system a try, and then decide whether it was adequate. Professor Sharlet then indicated his willingness to accept a limit~d gallery along with some method (sargeant-at-arms, etc.) for controlling possible problems, in addition to the present taping procedure. At this point, it was decided lo table the matter until the representatives could get the opmwns of their respective constituencies ofi the matter. A provision was added to the by-laws allowing for the consideration of ·emergency legislation not on the agenda, provided that two-thirds of those present agree to consider it. Finally, it was decided that the student and faculty members of the Agenda committee would serve one year terms, with the possibility of being re-elected. At the same meeting, the senators were made aware of the shortage of members on .the following :commit ties AOC needs 6 members, Computer Science - 4, Environment - 4, Elections - 5, and Student Life - 5 Applications wiH be found in the Student Activities office for all students who are interested. Finally, there was a reminder of the reception for Mr. 'Henry . Is Nearing Finalization. Albany Symphony Orchestra by PHYLLIS EDELMAN The officially announced results of the election held Monday night, and the runoff held on Tuesday are: Division I Seat, All College Senate: Guy Sacerdoti . Division II Seat,_ AU College Senate: Dan Wolfe Division III Seat, All College Senate: Steve Cassela Division IV Seat, All College Senate: Robin Waring At-Large Seat, All College Senate: itate White in runoff 452 In 362 over Mark Klein. Senior Seatt Board of Trustees: Henry Kass Juniol' Seat, Board of Trustees: Pertex Pad1 9 in runoff SJl to 341.1 twer Tim McC:abe. Edwin K. Tolan, College Librarian, announced in an interview with Concordiensis yesterday that plans to extend Schaffer Library are now in the process of being finalized. The plans call for additions to be made to the basement, the main floor and the mezzanine levels of the current library. According to Dr. Tolan, approximately 24,000 square feet of space will be added. This will increase book capacity by 57% and the seating capacity by 39% Tolan, however, does not believe that the 39% increase in seating capacity will be sufficient for the college's growing needs, although there are c:urrently no provisions for additional increases. The basement will include a separate reserve desk, as well as additional audio-visual equipment. Separate rooms for using maps, reading newspapers and typing are also expected to be included. Plans for the main level call for microfilm reading and storage rooms, besides additions to the present reference and bibliography sections. The mezzanine will be enlarged to encompass both present and back issues of the periodicals normally stocked by the library. Final plans are scheduled to be submitted to the architect by mid- December, with June, 1973 as the expected completion date for the construction. For those interested, plans of the extension are now on dis.play in the Schaffer Library. Suggestions from the students regarding ideas for improvement of facilities will be. welcome by Dr. Tolan. To Giue Salute To Students The Albany Symphony Orchestra will open its forty-first season Saturday evening, October 16, 8:30 p.m. at the Palace Theatre. Julius Hegyi, will conduct the orchestra in a program consisting of Brahms' Academic Festival Overture, Robert Starer's · Symphony No. 3, Pithoprakta co1nposed by Xenakis, and Mendelssohn's Symphony No. 4, \Italian in a progl'at'll ·entitled \Salute to Students.\ All of the music in the concert reflects the Academic world. Brahms' Academic Festi\al 0\erture contains student song~ and was written by Brahms to acknowledge the University of Breslau for conferring on him the degree of Doctor of Philosophy ... Robert Starer, the Composer of Symphony No. 3 is, himself. a part of the academic world as a professor. Xenakis' composition Pithoprakta is based on mathematical probabilities, and Mendelssohn \\as a student \\hen he wrote Symphon) ~o- tl, \Italian.\ Ticket information ma} he obtained by calling the Symphony Office \ 465-4755. Student tickets, a\·a1la t1le at the door. cost on!~ '51 50

. ,f. Pagel CONCORDIENSIS, October 15, 1971 Olnurnr Editor-in-Chief Louis S. Snitk!)ff Managing Editor Doug Wong AsSt. Managing EcUtor Gail w. Goodman Sports Editor GeorgeS. Bain Features Editor Matthew Swartz Business Manager Joseph Achenbaum Photography Editors Jody Saslow National Advt. Manager -&ntt\b~_!!~ Editors William Holleran Mike Meserole Charles Long M.ark Shulman Assoc. Photography Editor Subscriptions Manager . Dave Conrey M.ichael Hurley STAFF: Mark Urman, Jim Smith, Bruce Turecamo, Bob Joh~on, Jim Rostenberg, Chris Mandeville, 1 Frank DeLuda,. Les Goldman, Rosemary Rice, Don Kaplan, Rita Morandi, Barbara McDonald, Patty Sipe, Richard Kern, Gary (Lcapin') Leidennan, Marty Berm~tn, Mark Mindel. AI Reisch Published Tu~sdays and Fridays during the school year by the student body of U:mon C.ollege, Schenectady, N.Y., National Advertising Rep~esentat1ve, NatiOnal Educational Advertising .Setvice, Inc., College Publishers Representative, 360 ~~ngton Ave., N.Y.C. Editorial office, Old Gym, Uruon College. PublicatiOn Office, The World Publications, 771 State Street, Schenectady, N.Y. 12307, 346-2356. Entered in the S~henectady ~~o~t o~fice ~.Second Class Mail Matter. Subscription 20 C( nts a copy. $8 a year delivered anywhere in the United States. -- To the Editor: Regarding your Homecoming article, the roving alumnus did find a place to stay in North College; I . let him stay · in my room because there ·happened to be an empty extra bed here that night. After all, how clearly could I ~ave been thinking· at 3:15 a.m., when he came knocking at. my door; I had been asleep for two hours. He showed me his alumnus card so I knew he was,n't just any old drunk, and after agreeing with me that you can't trust Harvard men I felt I could trust him. Besides that, he was in no condition to take care of himself - but God did punish; he woke up with a ringing hangover and rather embarrassed as to his location for the night. Aside from my later anxiety when I started to consider my rather particular situation, there are some ,larg~r social · issues raised by this episode. There really should be a receptionist at a desk in North at the times of 10 a.m. till 12 midnight on weekdays and all 24 hours a day on weekends, with the doors locked at all other times. Without someone at the desk at the busiest hours, there would be no way to determine if unauthorized doors had been opened. The girls that live here will be inconvenienced themselves in getting in and out of their own dorm and visitors unfamiliar with the system will have difficulty in reaching people. From talking to the girls here, it is clear that we don't want the Gestapo system sometimes in effect in Richmond; we know that Union guys are our friends and fellow students and we like their free access to our dorm - but we do need someone ·~ with a little judgment at the front door to keep some semblance of order in our halls. At least my judgment isn't too swift at 3:15 a.m. I'd like someone down there. Name withheld by request * * \' * To the Editors: I was shocked by Mr. Bain's article on fraternities in the recent Concordy. But more, [ was saddened by what was so obviously an unreasoned and vitriolic attack that made baseless accusations and degraded an institution that is not deserving of this kind of condemnation. He places the blame full~ square on the fraternities for the lack of a student center and only little wit or biased emotions can excuse . hlm. Do not blame fraternities, Mr. Bain, for what, by . your own admission, is a college responsibility. I am sure that all fraternity men would welcome a student center on this campus. And, they would welcome the chance to enjoy a college sponsored social life, for the parties and social events that fraternities supply are not cheap. To be sure, fraternities do fulfill the needs of their members, but it is something that is worked for and paid for by them. Since you · feel the college is negligent than (sic) why can't the independents on, let's say, second floor Davidson do exactly the same thing? i.e. organize, collect dues, and sponsor activities. If this seems an undue imposition then the answer is not to call for the elimination . of those of us who do, but to)~t th¥- college to. fill that void. · :In: ·any event some· fraternities do' sponsor campus- wide activities, e.g. the Sigma Chi Clambake. Mr. Bain you then progress from the sublime to the ridiculous by asking that the time, money, and effort that is spent on fraternities be rechanneled. What time or effort is spent on fraternities that is not spent on all members of this community who ask for id Money? Mr. Bain - this may come as a rude awakening to you my lad, but, as an example, the members of the houses on Lenox Road not only pay their full room rent to the college, but also pay an additional $800.00 a year for the use of their other two rooms. The college my friend is not spending money on us, we are spending money on it. Finally, no one ever said that brotherhood was the exclusive right of fraternities. Yet, I lived as an independent for a year and never once did I find the sense of unity, of closeness, yes, even of love that I hne found as a brother. Fraternities may not be for all people, but for some it can be an experience that can enrich your life. Would you deny me this? If you found a group of guys with whom you wanted to live in a suite at Fox or on a floor of West or where.ver because they were the people that meant something: to you and they were the guys you wanted to be with, would you think it so outlandish to dt> so'l Would you not feel annoyed at someone who. not knowing you or your life style, said you could not?. &twMf 3111Mietl: . . . Fraternity View Defended by LES GOLDMAN Recently there has been much ·discussion concerning the .place of fraternities at Union. In an effort to get to the facts as the fraternities see them, this reporter interviewed thomas Hough, president of Delta Chi. As a fraternity president, Tom is a member of the Interfraternity Council. A common criticism of fraternities is that they tend to be only inward-looking. That is, they are concerned only with themselves. Hough disagreed with this criticism, pointing out that \a fraternity is a group of individuals, and different individuals have different interests.\ Furthermore, he stated that a fraternity provides greater opportunities for social action to an individual, should be choose to use them. Hough said, \Ifyou get involved in a .pre gram, you have more people to draw from Fraternities are not the best of all possible worlds; they are not for all people, but don't try to destroy something that can mean so much to some. Don't try to kill something that is good in this world. There is too little already. R. Treat Rinear Jr. Class of 1972 * * * * To the Editor: A recent column in your newspaper by \Mike\ Meserole has caught my attention. It is well written as far as facile use of the En-glish language is concerned although it does lapse frequently into the use of the four-letter word. This is understandable considering the calibre of m,ost undergradua.te invective these days. Mr. Meserole is disturbed because some people stole a TV set· from his house where he lives with l8 other guys. He acknowledges, in fact even claims in a sermonizing way, that this theft is indeed a NO! NO!. In passing he complains that the local constabulary seem powerless in this instance.. Of course, if the local constabulary moved into the campus to break up an anti-Viet Nam riot which was damaging property, including lV sets, or a free Angela Davis sit which was disrupting dasses, this would be \Police Brutality\ or interference , by the repressive government in the world of academe. Let some one snatch a boob tube though and the police are incompetent if they don't get it back in a big hurry. Maybe the Fuzz is tired of being called PIGS. Mr. Meserole blames the theft · on the grown-ups. Here Mr. Meserole is accurate, at least definition-wise. He makes a distinction between his group (no.n-grown-ups) and my group, Umon parents (grown-ups). Right on, boy! He says that we have Swiss Bank accounts (most Swiss Bank accounts held by Americans are legal) and that the government keeps secrets from the people. That the Atom bomb was fortunately one o( the best- kept secrets in world history would not occur to this bright young fellow. most likely because it was before his time and it wouldn't have been his \ass\ that might have been shot off in the invasion of Japan. Governments have to keep secrets som~times and I hope ours continue to do so when our elected leadt~S.; think and if you can convince your fraternity to back you, then you can have a gelled organization · behind you, and perhaps even funds that you would not normally have available to you as an iltdependent.\ Tom indicated that, in. the .past, fraternities have sponsor~ orphan parties, fund raising drives such as the Sigma Chi Clambake, etc. Another common assumption prevalent on the Union campus is that fraternities are dying. I questioned Hough as to whet-her he felt 'this to be the case. \On the Union campus\ he stated, \some fraternities have died, some from outward appearances seem to be dying, while others are blooming greatly. In general, all fraternities are noticing that things are not going as they have in the past. The houses that correct for this ate surviving.\ Hough commented that his fraternity and some ~f the others .had actually increased in size. He it is necessary. Incredibly, Mr. Meserole goes on to attack professional athletics. The word professional means money. If the professional owners of professional athletic teams didtft make a dollar or two, there wouldn't be any professional athletics at all. This all means according to- Mr. Meserole that stealing is here ·because we grown-ups (I love the phrase) are bad examples to him and his ungrown-ups. What percentage among us grown-ups have Swiss Bank accounts compared to the percentage of his urtgrown-ups who regularly smoke pot, take acid and obstruct traffic to free the Berrigans? Mr. Meserole's message seems to be: Look here, \Ma and Pa,\ these guys. stole · our colored TV set and it's your fault! We want a new set and if you don1t give us one we'll smash our piggy banks! The argument that 1-8-year- olds should have the vote because they are liable for military service never cut any- ice with me. Five year old children are required by some level of government to attend school. Should five year olds vote in school elections? . Mr. Meserole's column is one of the best arguments I have seen for raising the age level for voting to thirty. Devotedly, John C. Glidden TO ALL PRE~ LAW STUDENTS The following law schools will have representatives available in the Political Science outer office: Ottober 26 2 p.m. to 4 p.m. Prof. Harry I. Subin • N.Y.U. School of Law November 11 9 a.m. to 3 p.m. Prof. Sheldon Krantz Boston Univ. Law School felt th~ rea11on for Ute others' difficulties is that \the society, in general, and the people whom the fraternity can draw its :members . from, is changing. If a fraternity does not change to meet the changes in .society, -then a fraternity will die for it will attract no members.'' He indicated that the situation was probably most critical for fraternities in the Northeast, but that in the rest of the country the problem was not\too serious. It was often said before Union went co-ed :that having girls as members . of th,e campus community would greatly affect fraternity membership. The only affect a!! far as Hough could a ascertain Was the obvious decrease in the pool of men from which the fraternities could draw members ( 125 less men per class.) Hough seemed to feel that co-ed dorms might have an effect on fraternities, but he could not really say at thi!l time if it would be significant. . It has also been claimed that the building. of a student center might have an effect on fraternities. Hough felt that the building of a center would have a negligible effect. He stated that \a fraternity is much more than a place to gather, play ping-pong, cards, etc; It is a living unit. It is a place where .you live with people you like and with people you care about, more than than with people who care about you.',' ln a recent Concordiensis article George Bain charged that the college has failed in its responsibility to provide social settings for its students, primarily because fraternities exist. I asked Hough if he felt this to be the case. He indicated that he felt it · was all a matter of priorities. \There is only so much money available. The administration thought that a new Science- Engineering Center; and dormitories were more important to the campus than- a student center to provide social settings for its students. Both the size of this campus and the , money available are limited. When the college set up these priorities, fraternities had considerably more than half the students as members. Thus, the need was not as great. However, the size of the campus and available money were probably more of a detriment than were the presence of fraternities. I seriot:tsly doubt that a student center would have taken priority over Richmand, North, or the Science- Engineering Center.\ One of the strongest criticisms concerning fraternities is that they tend to fragment the campus into too many small groups. Hough disagreed with this. He equate<i it to the same situation · of having \fourteen or fifteen dorms.\ In terms of a fraternity- independent split, Hough seems to feel that recent articles in Concordiensis have blown this somewhat out of proportion. \When someone attacks your lifestyle, as Concordv has done recently to the frate~nities, it is only human nature for one to begin to feel defensive.;, Finally, I asked Tom if he had any comments, in general; about recent articles in Concordiensis concerning fraternities. Hough said, \In a recent article in Concordiensis it stated, 'that brotherhood is exclusive to Continued on Page 3 .. STEREO • 4•Channel Sound Now at your Music Headquarter LAFAYETTE RADIO-ELECTRONICS 141 ERIE BLVD. 346-6111 byMJ It's nominati~ Nixon a time for the Soutt Ni:xon's nominees wheeliJJg our chief country's Rem err. worth? Nixon's f position · after it Honest , about hi John M: and com] sure, .d( integrity: him a sea investigat about H have elud was guilt~ Fortas. It seem the Fow Appeals : came up Corporati Attentit There wil Girling C majors, relatives, a Date a1 1971 fron leave. Place: G Price:$ to Audrey departmen October 2( All Sor going to : to pick UJ LeClerc' Humanitie On Oct p.m. in th~ reception Union Co Mr. Henn Union C generous , interest, a College. cordially l'he el soul-b City

.-l Pagel CONCORDIENSIS, October 15,1971 cnnurnr Editor-in-Chief Louis S. SnitkoCf Managing Editor Doug Wong Assi. Managing Editor Gail W. Goodman Sports Editor George S. Bain Features Editor Matthew Swartz Business Manager Joseph Achenbauni Photography Editors Jody Saslow National Advt. Manager ·(outt\bll~ng Editors William Holleran Mike Meserole Charles Long Mark Shulman Assoc. Photography Editor Subscriptions Manager Dave Conrey Michael Harley STAFF: Mark U~man, Jim Smith, Bruce Turecamo, 'Bob Johnson, Jim Rostenber&, Chris Mandeville, Frank DeLucia, Les Goldman, Rosemary Rice, Don Kaplan, Rita Morandi, Barbara McDonald, Patty Si~u, Richard Kern, Gary (Leapin') Leiderman, Marty Berman, Mark Mandel, AI Reisch Published Tuc:sdays and Friday~ during the school year by the student b~dy of ~mon C::ollege, Schenectady, N.Y., National Advertising Repr.esentattve, Nat10nal Educational Advertising Service, Inc., College Publishers Representative, 360 Lex.ington Ave., N.Y.C. Editorial office Old Gym, Unian College. Publication Office, The World Publications: 771 State Street, Schenectady, N.Y. 12307, 346-2356. Entered in the S :henectady, ~o~t office a~ Second Class Mail Matter. Subscription 20 cmts a copy.$8a year delivered anywhere in the United States. To the Editor: Regarding your Homecoming article, the roving alumnus did find a place to stay in North College; I let him stay in my room because there happened to be an empty ex.tra bed here that night. After all, how clearly could I ~ave been thinking at 3:15 a.m., when he came knocking at my door; I had been asleep for two hours. He showed me his alumnus card so I knew he wasn't just any old drunk, and after agreeing with me that you can•t trust Harvard men I felt I could trust him. Besides that, he was in no condition to take care of himself - but God did punish; he woke up with a ringing hangover and rather embarrassed as to his location for the night. Aside from my later anxiety when I started to consider my rather particular situation, there are some larger social issues raised by this episode. There really should be a receptionist at a desk in North at the times of 10 a.m. till I 2 midnight on weekdays and all 24 hours a day on weekends, with the doors locked at all other times. Without someone at the desk at the busiest hours, there would be no way to determine if unauthorized doors had been opened. The girls that live here will be inconvenienced themselves in getting in and out of their own dorm and visitors unfamiliar with the system will have difficulty in reaching people. From talking to the girls here, it is clear that we don't want the Gestapo system sometimes in effect in Richmond; we know that Union guys are our friends and fellow students and we like their free access to our dorm - but we do need someone with a little judgment at the front door to keep some semblance of order in our halls. At least my judgment isn't too swift at 3: IS a.m. I'd like someone down there. Name withheld by request * II< \'' \' To the Editors: I was shocked by Mr. Bain's article on fraternities in the recent Concordy. But more, I was saddened by what was so obviously an unreasoned and vitriolic attack that made baseless accusations and degraded an institution that is not deserving of this kind of condemnation. He places the blame full- square on the fraternities for the lack of a student center and only little wit or biased emotions can excuse him. Do not blame fraternities, Mr. Bain, for what, by your own admission, is a college responsibility. I am sure that all fraternity men would welcome a student center on this campus. And, they would welcome the chance to enjoy a college sponsored social life, for the parties and social events that fraternities supply are not cheap. To be sure, fraternities do fulfill the needs of their members, but it is something that is worked for and paid for by them. Since you feel the college is negligent than (sic) why can't the independents on, let's say, second floor Davidson do exactly the same thing? i.e. organize, collect dues, and sponsor activities. If this seems an undue imposition then the answer is not to call for the elimination of those of us who do, but to get the college to fill that void. In any event some fraternities do sponsor campus- wide activities, e.g. the Sigma Chi Clam bake. Mr. Bain you then progress from the sublime to the ridiculous by asking that the time, money, and effort that is spent on fraternities be rechanneled. What time or effort is spent on fraternities that is not spent on all members of this community who ask for it? Money? Mr. Bain - this may come as a rude awakening to you my lad, but, as an example, the members of the houses on Lenox Road not only pay their full room rent to the college, but also pay an additional $800.00 a year for the use of their other two rooms. The college my friend is not spending money on us, we are spending money on it. Finally, no one ever said that brotherhood was the exclusive right of fraternities. Yet, I lived as an independent for a year and never once did I find the sense of unity, of closeness, yes, even of love that I have found as a brother. Fraternities may not be for all people, but for some it can be an experience that can enrich your life. Would you deny me this? If you found a group of guys with whom you wanted to live in a suite at Fox or on a floor of West or wherever because they were the people that meant something to you and they were the guys you wanted to be with, would you think it so outlandish to do so? Would you not feel annoyed at someone who, not knowing you or your life style, said you could not?. ~ 31dlMisl: Fraternity View Defended by LES GOLDMAN Recently there has been much discussion concerning the place of fraternities at Union. In an effort to get to the facts as the fraternities see them, this reporter interviewed Thomas Hough, president of Delta Chi. As a fraternity president, Tom is a member of the Interfraternity Council. A common criticism of fraternities is that they tend to be only inward-looking. That is, they are concerned only with themselves. Hough disagreed with this criticism, pointing out that \a fraternity is a group of individuals, and d iff ere n t individuals have different interests.\ Furthermore, he stated that a fraternity provides greater opportunities for social action to an individual, should be choose to use them. Hough said, \If you get involved in a program., you have more people to draw from Fraternities are not the best of all possible worlds; they are not for all people, but don't try to destroy something that can mean so much to some. Don't try to kill something that is good in this world. There is too little already. R. Treat Rinear Jr. Class of 1972 * * * * To the Editor: A recent column in your newspaper by \Mike\ Meserole has caught my attention. It is well written as far as facile use of the English language is concerned although it does lapse frequently into the use of the four-letter word. This 1s understandable considering the calibre of most undergraduate invective these days. Mr. Meserole is disturbed because some people stole a TV set from his house where he lives with 18 other guys. He acknowledges, in fact even claims in a sermonizing way, that this theft is indeed a NO! NO!. In passing he complains that the local constabulary seem powerless in this instance. Of course, if the local constabulary moved into the campus to break up an anti~Viet Nam riot which was damaging property, including TV sets, or a free Angela Davis sit which was disrupting dasses, this would be \Pohce Brutality\ or interference by the repressive government in the world of academe. Let some one snatch a boob tube though and the police are incompetent if they don't get it back in a big hurry. Maybe the Fuzz is tired of being called PIGS. Mr. Meserole blames the theft on the grown-ups. Here Mr. Meserole is accurate, at least definition-wise. He makes a distinction between his group (no.n-grown-ups) and my group, Umon parents (grown-ups). Right on, boy! He says that we have Swiss Bank accounts (most Swiss Bank accounts held by Americans are legal) and that the government keeps secrets from the people. That the Atom bomb was fortunately one of the best~ kept secrets in world history would not occur to this bright young fellow most likely because it was before his time and it wouldn't have been his \ass\ that might have been shot off in the invasion of Japan. Governments have to keep secrets sometimes and I hope ours continue to do so when our elected leadlt~.s..; think and if you can convince your fraternity to back you, then you can have a gelled organization behind you, an<i perhaps even funds that you would not normally have available to you as an independent:• T otn indicated that, in the past, £taternities have sponsored orphan parties, fand raising drives such as the Sigma Chi Clambake, etc. Another comrncm assumption prevalent on the Union campus is that fraternities are dying. I questioned Hough as te whether he felt this to be the case. \On the Union campus\ he stated, \some fraternities have died, some from outwavd appearances seem to be dying, while others are blooming greatly. In general, aU fraternities ue noticing that things are not going as they have in the past. The houses that correct for this are surviving.\ Hough commented that his fraternity and some of the others had actually increased in size. He it is necessary. Incredibly, Mr. Meserole goes on to attack professional athletics. The word professional means money. If the professional owners of professional athletic teams didn't make a dollar or two, there wo11ldn't be any professional athletics at all. This all means according to Mr. Meserole that stealing is here because we grown-ups (l love the phrase) are bad ex.arnples to him and his ungrown-ups. What percentage among us grown-ups have Swiss Bank accounts cornp ared to the percentage of his ungrown-ups who regularly smoke pot, take acid and obstruct traffic to free the Berrigans? Mr. Meserole's message seems to be: Look here, \Ma and Pa,\ these guys stole our colored TV set and it's your fault! We want a new set and if you don't give us one we'll smash our piggy banks! The argument that 18-year- olds should have the vote because they are liable for military service never cut any ice with me. Five year old children are required by some level of government to attend school. Should five year olds vote in school elections? Mr. Meserole's column is one of the best arguments I have seen for raising the age level for voting to thirty. Devotedly, John C. Glidden TO ALL PRE· LAW STUDENTS The following law schools will have representatives available in the Political Science outer office: October 26 2 p.m. tc 4 p.m. Prof. Harry I. Subin N.Y.U. School of Law November 11 9 a.m. to 3 p.m. Prof. Sbeldon Krantz Boston Univ. Law School felt the reason for the others' difficulties is that \the society, in general, and the people whom the fraternity can draw its members from, is changing. lf a fraternity does not change to meet the changes in society, then a fraternity will die for it wilil attract no members.\ He ~ndicated that the situation was probably most critical for fraternities in the Northeast, but that in the rest of the country the problem was not too serious. It was often said before Union went co-ed that having girls as members of the campus comm11nity would greatly affect fraternity membership. The only affect as far as Hough could a ascertain was the obvious decrease in the pool of men from which the fraternities could draw members (125 less men per class.) Hough seemed to feel that co-ed dorms might have an effect on fraternities, but he could not really say at this time if it would be significant. It has also been claimed that the building of a student center might have an effect on fraternities. Hough felt that the building of a center would have a negligible effect. He stated that \a fraternity is much more than a place to gather. play ping-pong, cards, etc. It is a living unit. It is a place where .you live with people you like and with people you care about, more than than, with people who care about you.\ In a recent Concordiensis article George Bain charged that the college has failed in its responsibility to provide social settings for its students, primarily because fraternities exist. I asked Hough if he felt this to be the case. He indicated that he felt it was all a matter of priorities. ''There is only so much money available. The administration thought that a new Science- Engineering Center, and dormitories were more important to the campus than a student center to provide social settings for its students. Both the size of this campus and the money available are limited. When the college set up these priorities, fraternities had considerably more than half the students as members. Thus, the need was not as great. However, the size of the campus and available money were probably more of a detriment than were the presence of fraternities. I seriously doubt that a student center would have taken priority over Richmand, North, or the Science- Engineering Center.\ One of the strongest criticisms concerning fraternities is that they tend to fragment the campus into too many small groups. Hough disagreed with this. He equated it to the same situation of having \fourteen or fifteen dorms.\ In terms of a fraternity- independent split, Hough seems to feel that recent articles in Concordiensis have blown this somewhat out of proportion. \When someone attacks your lifestyle, as Concordv has done recently to the frate;nities, it is only human nature for one to begin to feel defensive.\ Finally, I asked Tom if he had any comments, in general, about recent articles in Concordiensis concerning fraternities. Hough said, \In a recent article in Concordiensis it stated, 'that brotherhood is exclusive to Continued on Page 3 STEREO - 4-Channel Sound Now at your Music Headquarter LAFAYETTE RADIO-ELECTRONICS 141 ERIE BLVD. 346-6111 !• ' f ,. '' ' i i ! ' ! ! 1 I . I I i . ' . I 1- ~. ~ ~ j ' l i .. \ ~. ,. I byMA It's nominatic Nixon a1 time for the South Nixon's nomin.ees wheeling our chief country's. Rem em worth? Nixon's fi position ' after it Honest ) about hil John Mi and comi sure, de integrity a him a sea· investigati about H have elud, was guilty Fortas. It seem: the Four Appeals a came up Corporati1 Attentio There will Girling G majors, relatives, a Date a11 1971 from leave. Place: G Price: $1 to Audrey departmen October 20 All Sop going to I to pick up LeClerc'! Humanitie: On Oct< p.m. in the reception Union Col Mr. Henry Union c generous < interest, a College. cordially \file eli soul·bJ City a

. ' CONCORDIENSIS, October 15, 1971 Page 3 The Byrd In · T~e Hand Pro-Fraternity Opinion: - by MA'l'THEW SWARTZ It's Sup·reme Court nominations time again for Dick Nhwn and, apparently, payoff time for Strom Thurmond arid the South. A brief background of Nixon's pa.st two dandy nominees clarifies this allusion to wheeling and dealing. betWeen our chief of state and perhaps the country's leading fascist. . . 1 Remember Clement · llayns .. _ worth? Well., he was Nixon's first candidate to fill the position va~ed by Abe F ortas after it was foupd out that Honest Abe wasn't so honest about his outside investments. John Mitchell; after exttmsive and comprehensive research rm sure, decided Haynsworth•s integrity and competence -tnerited him a seat on the bench. Further investigation turned up facts about Hyansworth that must have eluded Mitchell becal.ll'ie he was guilty of the same mistake as Fortas. It seems that while serving on the Fourth Circuit Court of Appeals as Chief Judge, a case came up with the Brunswick Corporation as plaintiff. The Attention English Majors There will be a picnic at the Girling Center for all English majors, their dates, near relatives, and their friends. Date and Time: October 22, 1971 from 2:30 .p.m. until you leave. Place: Girting Center Price: $1.50 per person payable to Audrey Werner in the English department office on or before October 20. • * * .• All Sophomores interested in · going to France next fall asked to pick up applications in Prof. LeClerc's office In the Humanities building. \' * • * On October 22,. 1971 at 5:00 p.m. in the library, there will be a reception sponsored by the Union College Faculty honoring Mr. Henry Schaffer - trustee of Union College for his generous donation of. his time, interest, and money to Union College. AU students are cordially invited to attend. tentative, but not ·final. decision went· in favor ·of Brunswick. During this_ time when, theoretically, changes in the decision could have be.en made, Haynsworth acted on his stock broker's advice and bought a thous;md shares in the Brunswick Corporation. He later claimed that the act was merely an oversight but the Senate wouldn't buy it· and his nomination to the Supreme Court was defeated. Going from bad to wor(')e, as Dick has a recurring tendency to do, his second choice became G. Harrold Carswell, another Southerner (by the Way, Haynsworth was . from South Carolina), with a background that will make you wince. While running for the Georgia state legislature. in 1948 as an out-{lnd- . out segregationist, he was quoted as· saying, \I yield to no man; as · a fellow candidate or fellow citizen, in the firm, vigorous belief in the principles of white supremecy and I shall always be so governed.\ As evidenced by the late Justice Black, who has been involved in the Ku Klux Klan in the 1920's hut whose Refreshments will be served. * * * * The cheerleaders for the upcoming basketball season are Barbara McDonald, Cindi Adams, Heidi Steger, Susan Mullaney, Kate White, Barbara White, Celeste Anderson, Lyn Yelton. Susan Smith, Ellen Nelson, and Jill Manning are substitutes. * * * • Sign up now in the Student Activities Office for the Second Annual Tour de Union to be held Sunday afternoon October 31. Interested students should sign up in teams of four. The number of entries if limited to sixteen; sign up as soon as possible. . * • * * Anyone interested in joining the PRE-LAW SOCIETY, please contact Frank Messa at 362 Davidson, 370-0089. * • * * Conte To The Bookstore on Monday, October 18, when the big bargain Record Sale will start!! 't'he exetttn(l '\V Glees of :East Harlem\ whose combination soul-blues•gospel performances have captured New York City audiences the past year, wiD be at the College attitudes radically cilanged after exposure to the national scene, a man cannot be judged by his past. However. in 1966 while serving as a member of the Federal District Court in Georgia, Carswell signed a deed to a plot of land (which incidentally belonged to his wife) that included a covenant restricting ownership, occupancy and use .of the land to \members of the Caucasian race.\ Carswell clearly was not purged of his racist past. His appointment also was met. with senatorial rejection. Hiackmun, from Rochester, Minnesota saved Dick from a hat trick. Robert C. Byrd, junior Senator from West Virginia, is Nixon's prospective . nominee to succeed Black or Harlan. If .the background I proveded on Carswell amazed you (or even. if it didn't) the Byrd story will put. you on your ear. A graduate of law school in 1963 and having never been involved in the actual practice of law, Senator Byrd's voting record is one of a racist bigot (to say nothing of his efforts to organize the Ku Klux Klan during the 1940's). He participated in the Southern filibusters against the Civil Rights Bills of 1964 and 1965 and at that time coined the now famous \we can take the people out of the slums, but we can't take the slums out of the people.\ lie voted against Thurgood Marshall's confirmation to the Court and came out with an .. aye\ for Carswell. What has this human zero got going far him? Well, if your fraternity brother was running for the All-College Senate, would you vote for him? (be honest now) That's the way the United States Senate operates; with an air of clique mystique. Our craven President refused to comment on the issue of appointments at his recent press conference. Serving to confuse the issue~ he was quoted as saying that the \dope\ stories alluding to Byrd's certainty to get the nomination were equally untrue as the ones that .state he is completely out of consideration. He did say that two women were being seriously considered for the positions. Could it be that Dick has decided to ·reward John by appointing mad Martha? Only next week.,. will tell of the true extent with which O'ick will play , out this travesty. Maybe he will surprise us and put the Byrd back in the bush where it belongs. Give Us All A Chcr~ce by MARK JOHNSON Fratercnities at Union have been under siege since early this term. I dg · not feel an independent, having never tlved in a fraternity atmosphere, can speak about fraternities- with any sense of ()bjectivity. this campus that wants to live together. We funnel our energy and money to provide most of our own entertainment and all of our food. We too pay a student social. tax that goes for the good of the entire aca·demic community, ourselves included. George Bain made several valuable points in the last issue of the Concordiensis, however many of his thoughts and criticisms were misdirected. I feel the college has, to a large c:legree, ignored the needs of many students on this campus. The college community is in desperate need ()[ a student union - a place to take a date after the concert, a place to meet prefessors, a place to get meals and snacks when the 'Skeller is not open, and most importantly, a place to relax in or spend several hours shooting pool or watching TV. The college gives us no money and very little support. The elimination of fraternities would of course, make all. students .. independents\. Are we so sure the college is going show more interest in a student body com.posed entirely of independents? Could it be fraternity men are so interested in fostering a good environment that they take it upon themselves to improve their situation, particularly when the college neglects them. The men in fraternities have every right to pr-ovide as much as they can for themselves - as long as they do not infringe on the rights of others. Those of you who feel fraternities do nothing for the college community should come to a few of our parties- they are open! You might be able to get rides to the away athletic games with your fraternity friends. I do not mean to say fraternities are for everyone. You may still not like our style. I do not think money is an excuse either. The most expensive house on this campus costs little m()re than a single in a dorm, a Hale House meal ticket and your average social costs. You will find that the house is more comfortable, serves better food, and provides most of the social life a brother needs. All fraternities are like that - some maybe more than others. The fraternities can be blamed, but only indirectly and to a very small d:egree, for the administration's reluctance to provide a wic;Ier range of student facilities (i.e. a student union). A fraternity is a home, not a dormitory. We (my brothers and I) live in a house; a house that, for the most part, is in excellent condition. The brothers make a special eff01t to keep it clean. and in good repair. By the way - we own our own house and everything in it, unlike a college dormitory or residence hall. I would like to take issue with George Bain on several points. Fraternities were never founded with ~he hope or intention of being the solution to everyone•s college experience. Union is the mother of fraternities, and the houses founded here were for the benefit of the founders and their 1 friends! We are a group of friends who find living in a fraternity environment very enjoyable (a clique, maybe - a bad arrangement, no). A fraternity is, however, no more a clique than any other group on fiGOODlJJR4g~f'ers 118 BROADWAY SCHENECTADY, ·NEW Y<>RK 12305 (518) 374-7550 Give us a chance. Learn about us before you condemn us. I hope George will! Tom Hough lnteroiew ... . Continued from Page 2 -fraternities is a lot of crap: This may have some truth but the truth is hiding in ignorance. It is true that brotherhood can exist elsewhere. A brotherhood as it exists in a fraternity is different from the kind of brotherhood one experiences as a friendship you might have with a roommate. It is almost impossible to explain in words the difference. For one thing, you probably do not have the common experiences or background that you get when you enter a fraternity. In a fraternity, you rush, you are pledged, you go through initiation, and then you are a brother. During the period of pledging and initiation you are going through the something that others before yo1.1 have gone through. It creates a tie between people. lt is almost impossible to create this same feeling just by living on the same donn floor. The equating of the two can only be done by someone who does not know true brotherhood.\ tonight, October 15 for an 8:30 p.m. $how in Memorial Chapel. The performance is being sponsored by Union College's Black Alliance. Hough concluded by saying that he felt that \if a person had never looked at a fraternity or only superficially looked at a fraternity, he should not criticize. One can only realize the great advantages of brotherhood by joining a fraternity, but you can still see what it is like without necessarily becoming a brother. Fraternities are not necessarily for everyone. Different people have different life styles. Everyone should be allowed to live their own life style. Don't impose one style on everyone. Each person should be allowed to live as he desires.'' ' ..

CONCORDIENSIS, October 15, 1971 Page 3 The Byrd In The Hand Pro-Fraternity Opinion: i 1 .i l ~· I l • byMATTHEW SWARTZ It's Supreme Court nominations time again for Dick Nixon and, apparently, payoff time for Strom Thurmond and the South. A brief background of Nixon's past two dandy aominees clarifies this allusion to wheeling and dealing between our chief of state and perhaps the country's leading fascist. I Remember Clement Hayns-. ; . ' worth? Well, he was Nixon's first candidate to fill the position vacated by Abe Fortas after it was found out that Honest Abe wasn't so honest about his outside investments. John Mitchell, after extensive and compFehensive research I'm sure, decided Haynsworth's integrity and competence merited him a seat on the bench. Further investigation turned up facts about Hyansworth that must have eluded Mitchell because he was guilty of the same mistake as Fortas. It seems that while serving on the Fourth Circuit Court of Appeals as Chief Judge, a case came up with the Brunswick Corporation as plaintiff. The Attention English Majors - There will be a picnic at the Girling Center for all English majors, their dates, near relatives, and their friends. Date and Time: October 22, 1971 from 2:30 p.m. until you leave. Place: Girling Center Price: $1.50 per person payable to Audrey Werner in the English department office on or before October 20. * * * * All Sophomores interested in going to France next fall asked to pick up applications in Prof. LeClerc's office in the Humanities building. * * * * On October 22, 1971 at 5:00 p.m. in the library, there will be a reception sponsored by the Union College Faculty honoring Mr. Henry Schaffer- trustee of Union College for his 1 .. J generous donation of his time, r j interest, and money to union ' , College. All students are cordially invited to attend. ~. i , i ~ .· tentative, but not final, decision went in favor ·of Brunswick. During this time when, theoretically, changes in the decision could have been made, Haynsworth acted on his stock broker's advice and bought a thousand shares in the Brunswick Corporation. He later claimed that the act was merely an oversight but the Senate wouldn't buy it and his nomination to the Supreme Court was defeated. Going from bad to worse, as Dick has a recurring tendency to do, his second choice became G. Harrold Carswell, another Southerner (by the way, Haynsworth was from South Carolina), with a background that will make you wince. While running for the Georgia state legislature in 1948 as an out-!lnd- out segregationist, he was quoted as saying, \I yield to no man, as a fellow candidate or fellow citizen, in the firm, vigorous belief in the principles of white supremecy and I shall always be so governed.\ As evidenced by the late Justice Black, who has been involved in the Ku Klux Klan in the 1920's but whose Refreshments will be served. The cheerleaders for the upcoming basketball season are Barbara McDonald, Cindi Adams, Heidi Steger, Susan Mullaney, Kate White, Barbara White, Celeste Anderson, Lyn Yelton. Susan Smith, Ellen Nelson, and Jill Manning are substitutes. * * * * Sign up now in the Student Activities Office for the Second Annual Tour de Union to be held Sunday afternoon October 31. Interested students should sign up in teams of four. The number of entries if limited to sixteen; sign up as soon as possible. * * * * Anyone interested in joining the PRE-LAW SOCIETY, please contact Frank Messa at 362 Davidson, 370-0089. * * * * Come To The Bookstore on Monday, October 18, when the big bargain Record Sale will start!! l'he exciting ···voices of East Harlem\ whose combination soul-blues-gospel performances have captured New York City audiences the past year, will be at the College attitudes radically changed after exposure to the national scene, a man cannot be judged by his past. However, in 1966 whHe serving as a member af the Federal District Court in Georgia, Carswell signed a deed to a plot of land (which incidentally belonged to his wife) that included a covenant restricting ownership, occupancy and use of the land to \members of the Caucasian race.\ Carswell clearly was not purged of his racist past. His appointment also was met with senatorial rejection. Blackmun, from Rochester, Minnesota saved Dick from a hat trick. Robert C. Byrd, junior Senator from West Virginia, is Nixon's prospective nominee to succeed Black or Harlan. If the background I proveded on Carswell amazed you (or even if it didn't) the Byrd story will put you on your ear. A graduate of law school in 1963 and having never been involved in the actual practice of law, Senator Byrd's voting record is one of a racist bigot (to say nothing of his efforts to organize the Ku Klux Klan during the 1940's). He participated in the Southern filibusters against the Ci vi 1 Rights Bills of I 964 and 1965 and at that time coined the now famous \we can take the people out of the slums, but we can't take the slums out of the people.\ He voted against Thurgood Marshall's confirmation to the Court and came out with an \aye\ for Carswell. What has this human zero got going for him? Well, if your fraternity brother was running for the All-College Senate, would you vote for him? (be honest now) That's the way the United States Senate operates; with an air of clique mystique. Our craven President refused to comment on the issue of appointments at his recent press conference. Serving to confuse the issue, he was quoted as saying that the \dope\ stories alluding to Byrd's certainty to get the nomination were equally untrue as the ones that state he is completely out of consideration. He did say that two women were being seriously considered for the positions. Could it be that Dick has decided to reward John by appointing mad Martha? Only next week .. will tell of the true extent with which IJ'ick will play out this travesty. Maybe he will surprise us and put the Byrd back in the bush where it belongs. Give Us All A Chance by MARK JOHNSON Fraternities at Union have been under siege since early this term. I do not feel an independent, having never lived in a fraternity atmosphere, can speak about fraternities with any sense of objectivity. George Bain made severai valuable points in the last issue of the Concordiensis, however many of his thoughts and criticisms were misdirected. I feel the college has, to a large degree, ignored the needs of many students on this campus. The college community ts in desperate need of a student union - a place to take a date after the concert, a place to meet professors, a place to get meals and snacks when the 'Skeller is not open, and most impottantly, a place to relax in or spend several hours shooting pool or watching TV. The fraternities can be blamed, b11t only indirectly and to a very small degree, for the administration's reluctance to provide a wider range of student facilities (i.e, a student union). A fraternity is a home, not a dormitory. We (my brothers and I) live in a house; a house that. for the most part, is in excellent condition. The brothers make a special effort to keep it clean and in good repair. By the way - we own our own house and everything in it, unlike a college dormitory or residence hall. I would like to take issue with George Bain on several points. Fraternities were never founded with the hope or intention of being the solution to everyone's college experience. Union is the mother of fraternities, and the houses founded here were for the benefit of the founders and their friends! We are a group of friends who find living in a fraternity environment very enjoyable (a clique, maybe - a bad arrangement, no). A fraternity is, however, no more a clique than any other group on iijGOODlJJR4g~~~ers 118 BROADWAY SCHENECTADY, NEW YORK 12305 (518) 374·7550 this campus that wants to live together. We funnel our energy and money to provide most of our own entertainment and all of our food. We too pay a student social tax that goes for the good of the entire academic community, ourselves included. The college gives us no money and very little support. The elimination of fraternities would of course, make all students \independents\. Are we so sure the college is going show more interest in a student body composed entirely of independents'? C auld it be fraternity men are so interested in fostering a good environment that they take it upon themselves to improve their situation. particularly when the college neglects them. The men in fraternities have every right to provide as much as they can for themselves - · as long as they do not infringe on the rights of others. Those of you who feel fraternities do nothmg for the college community should come to a few of our parties - they are open! You might be ahle to get rides to the away athletic games with your fraternity friends. 1 do not mean to sav fraternities are for everyone. Yo~ may still not like our style. I do not think money is an excuse either. The most expensive house on this campus costs little more than a single in a dorm, a Hale House meal ticket and your average social costs. You will find that the house is more comfortable, serves better food, and provides most of the social life a brother needs. '' 11 fraternities are like that - some maybe more than others. Give us a chance. Learn about us before you condemn us. f hope George will! Tom Hough lnteruiew ... Continued from Page 2 fraternities is a lot of crap.' This may have some truth but the truth is hiding in ignorance. It is true that brotherhood can exist elsewhere. A brotherhood as it exists in a fraternity is different from the kind of brotherhood one experiences as a friendship you might have with a roommate. It 1s almost impossible to explain in words the difference. For one thing, you probably do not have the common experiences or background that you get when you enter a fraternity. In a fraternity, you rush, you are pledged, you go through tmttatwn, and then \ ou are a brother. During the· period of pledging and initiation you are going through the something that others before you h.1ve gone through. It creates a - : between people. It is almost in1possible to CFeate this same feeling just by living on the same dorm floor. The equating of the two can only be done by someone who does not know true brotherhood.'' tonight, October 15 for an 8:30 p.m. show in Memorial Chapel. The performance is being sponsored by Union College's Black Alliance. Hough concluded by saying that he felt that \if a person had never looked at a fraternity or only superficially looked at a fraternity, he should not criticize. One can only realize the great advantages of brotherhood by joining a fraternity, but you can still see what it is like without necessarily becoming a brother. Fraternities are not necessarily for everyone. Different people have different life styles. Everyone should be allowed to live their own life style. Don't impose one style on everyone. Each person should be allowed to live as he desires.''

Page 4 CONCORDIENSIS, October 15, 197i -~. . ... ··- Gridders Seek 12th Hamilton Ties Boaters In Row Ooer RPI In Home Op' ener, 2-2· by LEAPIN Baron has broken the 1000-yard New York State's oldest barrier in passes this season. T o· t:~t~:.f~-·~. 1~,:!H: ~::i~~w~;, ~·~pti~ . wo · ve·rtimes .Fruitless The 2-2 Garnet eleven has won have netted him 548 yards and all eleven straight over the Engineers six of. Ba,ron's TO tosses. By since 1959. Overall; Union holds companng Kontson's statistics to a 52-144 edge. those of ALL of Union's But RPI certainly won't be the previous opponents (33 underdog. The l-3 Engineers completions for 504 yards), one could easily have been 3-1. Last can see just how impr~ssive they week, they blew a hard-earned are. lead in a 23-19 loss to Trinity, The Dutchmen's decided and in their opener, Coast Guard weakness is in the rushing came from a · 0-27 deficit in the department. They have gained last quarter to upend the but 446 yards for a 2.6 average Engineers by a single point. The per carry. While Union has lone RPI win was a 48-7 rout of yielded 871 yards and 4.1 per Hamilton. carry, this reflects an offensive, Whereas Union got blown off not a defensivef short-c<;~ming. the field in no time at Alfred, Furthermore, Union has picked RPI was as close as 13-12 in the up a pitiful 22 first downs on the final period before the Saxons ground while allowing its pulled away to a 34-12 win. opposition 37. That consistent final-quarter It is interesting to note that weakness of RPI's could prove Garnet punter Jim Niver, who fatal against the strong-finishing shows a respectable 34.4 yard Dutchmen. Although Union has average for his 23 punts, has been outscored in the first three hooted one 73 yards! periods of its four games by 84- ~he great Garnet defensive job 38, it shows a 27-9 advantage in agamst Rochester last week did the final stanza. . not. go unnoticed by the. ECAC, Engineer quarterback Bo~ wh1ch named end Charlie Weekes to its weekly Division III Star Squad and accorded honorable mention to halfback . and co-captain Pete Keller. The Union secondary was tough in intercepting three Yellowjacket passes and they'll have to be even tougher to make This is RPI weekend for the that twelfth straight win over Garnet athletic squads. The RPI a reality. varsity football game, the 71st clash for the Dutchmen's Shoes is scheduled for 1:30 tomorro~ afternoon on the Engineers' '86 ~focU flviiit by MARTY BERMAN In a long, frustrating, and fai~ly uneventful game; the Umon soccer team was tied by Hamilton, 2-2 last Wednesday. It was the home opener for the Garnet and sadly reminiscent of last year's squad. The Dutchmen squad was obviously superior to the Continentals, now 0-4-1. The Hamilton team lacked a passing game and suffered in many other areas of fundamentals. But they did stack their defense and received steady play from their fullbacks, who repeatedly thwarted the many Garnet drives. ' Union, sadly enough, lost their advantage of superior skill by the second quarter, and that led to a loss of poise. The Garnet saw their play come down to Hamilton's level, and the game degenerated into a poor form of \kick and runs\ with little being \set up.\ The intitial score of the contest was re~stered with only 13 seconds m the first quarter by the Continentals' forward James Cambell, who scored both Hamilton goals. It was Hamilton's second shot on net in the period and was a result of a frea~ b.reakaway. Although goahe Jm1 Slettelap.d made a Field. At 11 :30 in the morning, both the varsity and junior varsity soccer teams kick off against RPI, also in beautiful Tr 0 y, and the cross country meet goes off at 12:30 p.m., on the Engineers' Weekend Wanderings home course. A lot is in store before that football game, so join the car caravan leaving before 10:30, and root the Dutchmen to four with WOODY For the second year in a row, Union's soccer team has started off the season with two victories and then a disappointing tie with a pathetic Hamilton squad, Last year the Garnet opened 1-0 against Trinity and then ~ropped. King's Poi~t 4-3, before tying Hamilton 1-1 on the pint- Sized, ram soaked field in Clinton. great save oh the initial shot, the rebound was slipped into the left corner along the ground. Union had controlled the entire first quarter only to trai'l l- 0. T~e Garnet again. controlled play in the second period, and the .pressure finally got to Hamilton. A fullback stupidly attempted a long throw-in to his goalie and thr~w it over the end line, giving Uru~n a corner kick. Co-captain Art Fraser took it and set llP fellow co-captain Paul Martini in the goal mouth. Martini converted, his first goal of the ~mpaign, and it was a tre game With 3:47 remaining in the half. Although the crowd held expectations of a rout after Union had finally broken thro1;1gh, play remained poor, and 1t was Hamilton who forged ahead, once again on a freak play. With l3:40 left in the third quarter Cambell fired a bullet out of a scramble in front of the net that zipped past new goalie Paul Miller. He was screened out on the play and had no chance. Fraser tied the game up with 6:32 left in the last period when he put a 25 yard free kick in the corner of the net. The shot was beautiful, but the Hamilton goalie should have had it. The score was Fraser's fourth of the 'For three Generati-ons~' young season and gives him a total of seven points, going with his three assists. That proved to be the finaJ marker ~f the game, including the two fiVe-minute overtimes. In those overtinies the crowd, alarmingly sparse even for soccer, was provided with their most exciting moments, Each team had great opportunities, and each saw a shot hit a post and bounce back. Union's. heartbreaker was hit by Dusty Richards with 1 :25 left in the second overtime. Union now takes its 24).1 record into Saturday's big game at RPI. An upset in the year's toughest gal]le would insure a .great season. Freshman Football The Union College freshman footbal~ team met Mjddlebury today, 10 the season's first home game. But the Dutchman frosh have a manpower problem; only 24 men are listed on Coach Bruce Allison's squad. In last week's opener at Trinity the baby Bantams swamped by a 50-0 count. Joe Urschell and AI Gilewicz share the quarterback duties and little Mike Deshler and ~Greg Breedlove provide the bulk of the running. victories. Rah! Wanted MORE Freshman Customers Dambrose Then Union disastrously lost the final seven games on its ' schedule and finished at 2~7~1. Those Who Know ... Have been recommendin~ a em en 1517 VanVranken Ave. We aean Everything The most Meaningful Semester you'll ever spend ... could be the one on World CamP.US Afloat Sailing Feb. 1972 to Africa and the Orient Through a transfer format, more than S,OOO students from 450 campuses have participated lor a semester in this unique program in inter· national education. • . WCA_ w1ll broaden your hoflzons. l1terally and flgurat1vely ... and give you a better chance to make 11 -meaningfully -in th1s cnang1ng world. You ll \tudy at sea with 3n exper1enced cos- mopolitan faculty, and then durmg port stops you'll study the world itself. You'll d1scover that no matter how fore·rgn and far-away, you have a lot m common with people of other londs. WCA rsn't as expensrve as you miglrt thmk: w~'ve done our best to bring it within reach of :nost college students. Write today for free d~liiiiS. HACHERS: Summer travel with credrt for teach· crs and administrators. Wrrte Today to , l'.c r;': Chapman College. _:·:c::t-,L':__~1~~C26, Orange, California 92666 In 1971, the ,hooters again debuted with a win over Trinity and ,then avenged last fall's 3-0 loss to Rochester with a 2-0 overtime decision out there last weekend. That win further raised hopes for the first winning soccer season since 1958 ~ how many times have you heard that? - but last Wednesday's home opener was a disappointment. Garrulous the Garnet were not, and the- only noise came from Motorcycle Bob McMurray on the bench, a coach frustrated by his team's inability to make the big play. - A little teamwork communication on the field a11d the Gamet might have been able to capitalize on a few more shots on the Hamilton net. As it was, they out-passed, outshot, and out-played the Continentals, but they did not outluck them. *· * * * Prof. Gary Walters' course Hoop lOt-Fundamental Basketball- has been cancelled, and basketball co-captains Jim Tedisco and ~ob Pezzano reportedly will now lead team workouts as the squad circumvents the NESCAC ruling on preseason practice. November 1 is the official magic date, but the barnacle on Dill's lip and the magnificent manes on some of the other players .may be . long gone before then. The team has met and decided to again abide by the hairlength dictum from the coach. Apparently, the desire to play ball supersedes the desire to sef one's own hair length at Union. * * * * Another interesting note. ln Saturday's football game, both coaches wiH be going for their first series win. Gerry Everling is in his first year as head coach, while RPI's Dick Riendeau, in his ninth year, has never beaten Uruon. The Dutchmen should survive the Engineers' aerial attack and break their two~game losing streak tomorrow afternoon. 11 • . HERSHEL MAURICE B WALTER 3 Un1on Graduates in Graubart Family•• 166 JAY ST. FOR HONEST SE.ftYI'iE AND GOOD J£\fVELR'Y ......... - - DAVE'S ~quirt ~IJnp 420 State St.-Open Tuesday & Thursday til 9:00~ . I t Denim i Corduroy \ Bells by LEVI'S AtL SIZES - - j Thr En· cur rec wa cor car me ad< sitf gla CO( Pb Op mo spr AJ: En or I eX I tov we: so res reg Un M~ ope Th Sa1 to1 1 1 Un wa sal' wil anc haJ wh an res da1 No I SU< triJ a dis in He 0p1 fro sit ac< si~ ac tta sal trtl I

t y y • • Fountl«J Ill Union Colltf,e 1877 SCHENECTADY, NEW YORK OCTOBER 19,1971 Price Twenty Cents Tbe Social Commi.ttee prese-nts Brewer and Shipley, an evening of folk music, in concert at 8:30 p.m .. in Memorial Chapel on Saturday evening, October 23. Tickets ate now on sale at the Student Activities Office. The price will be $3 for Union students with ID, in advance, and $4 for others and at the door. Tickets will be sold between the hours of 1:00 and 5:00p.m. only. P. Y.E. Successful In Recycling Driue by TO~ LUNDQUIST that then! are no on-campus sttes for glass collection, due 'to safety reasons. You are asked to save glass on your own for the monthly PACE II program. PYE would like to thank the administration ·for obtaining 'a paper storage area and hopes f (:)r continued cooperation in recycling from all segments of the college community. -News Analysis~ Account Of Disciplinary Aftermath by REID RUSSELL Last spring, a number of black students took over the college Computer Center and presented the following demands: 1) the establishiJ)ent of a black cultural center 2) lhe increase of scholarship money in a 1:1 ratio with the increase in tuition charges 3) amnesty for those occupying the computer center The blacks now have the old Beta house in Davidson for use as a cultural center, albeit not on an exclusive basis until they pay a thousand dollar rental fee. Three black scholarship student~, as well as three white scholarship students, held three meetings with R. Gordon Bingham, Assistant to the 'President, Professor Theodore Bick, Department of Mathematics, and Joseph T. Maras, Director of Student Aid, following the disruptjons of last spring, to discuss the financial aid situation. The upshot of these meetings, according to Mr. Bingham, was that Maras was instructed to clarify, but not ch<~;pge, the ex.ist~ng policies of the college. In response to the charge that existing scholarships are cut without advance warning, Bingham stated that it has been the policy of the college for the past four years to send letters to incoming financial aid recipients demands), and five white informing them that the amount students (all of whom were of aid they receive is subject to involved in the occupation of the evaluation each year they attend Administration Building) to find the college. out what they considered to be Many of the students involved the answer to questions which I in the Computer Center considered to he important. as occupation were the subjects of well as of general interest. disciplinary action. Penalties First, I wished to determine exacted, as reported in the June what people thought was gained issue .of the Union College and/ or lost by the whole train of Chronicle, ranged from fines of events last spring. from the $150 each and disciplinary building take overs to the final probation for two students to a judgements of the Discipline fine of $50 for one student. Committee. President Martin. Also last spring, a group of being the man responsible for all white students took over the administrative actions and Administration Building to therefore, be.ng the logic.1l man demonstrate their support of the to speak for the administration, blacks' demands. Besides refused to speculate on the reiterating these demands and matter. commenting, ••Gains and asking amnesty for themselves. losses in human affairs are not the group made these suggestions: quickly or easily measured. I 1) that the detailed colleg~ need at least a year before !'II budget be made public even hazard a guess about them.\ 2) that the college's investment The members of the· Black portfolio be open for inspection. Alliance, although somewhat 3) that interested 'Students be uncertain, were more outspoken. allowed to meet with some Greg Freelon, Co-Chairman of Trustees to discuss the issue of Alliance this year. and Rod \corporate involvement\ Jones were of the opinion that The Schenectady Protect Your Environment Club (l'YE) is currently involved in twe. recycling programs for solid waste materials. PYE 1s conducting an intensive on- campus recycling program for metal cans and paper. In addition, PYE is sponsoring a site for county-wide collection of glass, paper and metal in cooperation with the County Planning Department's Operation, PACE II. The PACE II project is a monthly continuation of last spring's PACE (Protect and Appreciate your County Environment) program. The original PACE was an experiment to test public reaction toward recycling. The results were overwhelmingly favorable, so PACE II was set up in response to public demand for regular recycling stations. The Union site, located in the Maintenance Parking Lot, is operated and manned by PYE. The first collection was held Saturday, October 16. Over 4 tons of paper, 2 tons of glass and 1 ton of cans were collected at Union for recycling. The paper was shipped to a local junk salvaging firm, T. A. Predel, who will ship it back for repulping and re-use. County trucks handled the glass and cans, which were taken to Coca Cola and Continental Can, respectively. The next collection date is set for Saturday, November 20. Second Annual Race For Bicyclists Sunday Regarding these \suggestions\, the campus community, and President H-arold C. Martin had especially the administration, had this to say; \The detailed budget gained a greater awareness of the had been made available to those black presence and needs. Issac interested in it prior to the 'take Fitzge:-ald and Deborah Jenkins over' and· the investment portfolio pointed to the acquisition of the as welL To the best of my longed-for cultural center as a knowledge none involved in that major gain. William Shockley act had ever taken advantage of and Freelon disputed this view. the offer. 1 arranged for three however. claiming that the Beta trustees to meet with students for set up was not what was a discussion of investment policy originally asked for. Freelon at the time of the June trustee complained of the one thousand meeting. The three students for dollars the administration is whom I made that arrangement charging for exclusive use of the never spoke to me again about it, center and Shockley viewed the so the meeting didn't come off.\ cost of suites in Davidson as too Prospects for another successful year for recycling on Union's campus improved when a storage area for paper was discovered. This space is located in the garage behind Lamont House. Tlie storage area will be open Tuesdays and Thursdays from 1:30 to 4:30 to allow floor site captains to store accumulated paper. When a signific.ant amount has accumulated, it will be transported to another junk salvaging firm via a Maintenance truck. PYE reminds all glass users The second annual Tour de Union bicycle race will be held this Sunday, October 24, at 2 p.m., on the same· course as last year's race. Please note the date change from Sunday, October 31. the number of entries is unfortunately limited to 20 4- man or woman teams, and the teams must sign up in the Student Activities Office by this Friday. After signing up the team members will receive a new sheet with details on the course and other information. The race will start in Le Mans fashion on Library Lane, and the riders will move past Hale House, along the Terrace Walk by the flag pole, down past the Psychology Building, Mr. Arthur, and up the new road behind the Social . S·ciences Building. Then the course proceeds around the Science Center, down past Alumni Gymnasium, around the corner onto College Lane by the tennis courts and past the back of the Humanities Building, All riders will cover five laps, with the following exceptions. A one lap handicap will be awarded for each girl and each bicycle under a five-speed. But due to the length of the short course - abeut three-and-a-half to four miles - no more than a two lap handicap will be given to any team. The relay exchange will take place in front of Alpha Delta Phi on Library Lane, also the location of the finish line. Skill in negotiating the corners on the course and the sidewalk in front of the flag pole are as important in this race as is endurance, because of the short length of the course. Only two riders suffered accidents last year, both in minor spi1ls, and so the Tour Committee will not require the racers to wear helmets or other protective gear. All team members will report at 1:15 on Sunday for pre-race instructions and any changes in the course. A prize will be awarded to the winning team, and strong entries are already reported from Alpha Delta Phi and Chi Psi. For more details or other questions contact Bob Michaelson at 370-0505, 132 Park Place or see the information sheet in the Student Activities Office. Some of those involved in the steep to meet the idea of the take over of the Administration original proposal, something ·Building Were also punished for akin to a fraternity of blacks. their actions. As described in the Tracy Rich, Co-Chairman .of this June issue of the Union College year's Alliance, was the only Chronicle, the maximum penalty black encountered who felt that was a $200 fine and the something, although he minimum, an official reprimand. considered it minimal. had come With everyone having been out of the meetings on given ample time to reflect on scholarships. matters, I thought it would be in a negative sense, the blacks interesting to learn of the were quick to point to the reactions to the occupations personal losses suffered by those themselves and subsequent found guilty by the Discipline developments of those who, Committee. Issac Fitzgerald was either directly or indirectly, were concerned that the campus involved in the disorders of last community might have lost s'pring. Consequently, I respect for the Black Alliance as interviewed President Martin, a group due to the events of last eight black students (some of spring. Jennifer Smith was whom were involved in the concerned about those blacks computer center occupation and who did not support the take some of whom were not, but all over but who, she felt, were of whom supported the basic indiscriminately p\laced in a Apply Now F.or Committees . group by the rest of the college community with those who did see fit to support the occupation. It has been verified by several black sources that less than 50% of the Alliance supported the Computer Center occupation. This figure does not take into account those blacks on campus who are not active members of the Alliance. A natural question that conies to mind is whether the blacks lost faith in, or respect for, the administration as a result of the events of last spring. Deborah Jenkins answered this question in the negative, contending that it was impossible Applications for the following College and Student commit- tees are now available in the Student Activities Office. All interested students must fill out applications (even if you have previously submitted your name or otherwise indicated your interest.) . Academic Opportunity ................... 61 undergraduates Computer Science ....................... 4 \ Environment . ............................ :4 \ Elections ........................ ,., ......... 5 \ Student Life ............. ~· .............. 5 \ All completed applications are due in the Student Activi- ties Office no later than Friday Oct. 29 at 4:30 P.M. A list of committee functions is also available in the SAO. Any student having questions should call David Robbins at 372-0804 or speak with Mrs. Marra in the SAO. Continued on Page 2

(!tnnrnr Managing Editor Doug Wong Asst. Managing Editor Gail W. Goodmen Contribudag Editors! William Holieran Mike Meserole Editor·in•Chie£ Louis S. Snitkoff News Editor Howard Stone Sports Editor George S. Bain Features Editor Matthew Swartz Business Manager Joseph P. Achenbaum Photogr~phy Editors Jody Saslow National· Advt. Manager Charles Long Mark Shulman Assoc. Photography Editor Subscriptions Manager Dave Comey Michael Hurley STAFF: Mark Urman, Jim Smith, Bruce Turecamo, Bob Johnson, Jim Rostenberg, Chris Mandeville, Frank DeLucia, tes Goldman, ~osema~y Rice, Don Kaplan, Rit.a, Morandi, Barbara McDonald, Patty S1pe, Raehard Kern, Gary (Leanm \ I .eidermiJ.rn . Marty Berman, Mark Mindel, AI Reisch, ,Jerry Macher, Joe Monkoaskt. Published Tu~sdays and Fridays during the school year by the student body of ~mon C:ollege;. Sch~nectady, N._'l:., National Advertising Repr.e.sentattve, National r.ducattonal Adverttsmg Service, Inc., College Publisi:Jers Representative, 360 Lexington Ave., N. Y.C. Editorial office Old Gym, Union College. Publication ·office, The World Publications: 771 State Street, Schenectady, N.Y. l2J07, 346-2356. Enter~ in the Schenectady.post office ~ Second Class Mail Matter. Subscription 20 cents a copy.·ss a year delivered anywhere in the United States. --' Neither Snow, Nor Sleet, Nor Footbal'l G.ames .... ? It is encouraging to note that another student service at U~on _has fallen victim to inconsistency. The irregular mail dehvenes on campus, as weD as the inaccessibility of the West College packa~e ro~m a~e reminiscent of the totally random schedule of ma1l delivery m past years. For two weeks now, the Saturday mail has been delivered on Sunday or· Mon~ay. (depending on where you live). altho~gh weekday dehvenes seem to be coming on schedule. Seemmgly, the most logical explanation for the absence of Saturday mail is the presence of Saturday football games in Troy and at Union on the last two weekends. While I am sure that the f~otball team appreciates the school and team spirit of !he ~admen. the students do not appreciate not getting their mall. · Aside from the . obvious, and not sq importal!t . reasons, (letters from fnends, parents,· f1ances) Important correspondences (graduate s~hool information hank statements, draft notices) are being unnecessarily delayed. However,.~the issue that must not be overlooked is that the mail~en, who. are gra!lt-in-aids, are getting paid to do a job t~at ·~only hemg partially done. Especially with the financial atd situation being as tig:u as it is, this is an important. consideration. A major complaint among students is that the half-hour-a- day set aside for claiming packages is inadequate. It would seem that if packages could be claimed at noon time (as per last year), as well as after dinner, a smaller number of students would be inconvenienced. Students who are particularly pained by the mail room hours are those involved in student organizations which meet, rehearse or publish betw~en the hours of 7 p.m. and 11 p.m. on weekday evehmgs; they m~st often wait several days before being free at 7:30p.m. to clru.m a package. · For the most part, increased efficiency in mail deliveries in gen.eral, t~is year, has probably proven that a central mallroom.ts. not 1he s?,le means of postal prowess. Removing the remammg bugs can make the dormitory delivery argument even more conclusive. .,... ---- ---·-----------------~--------.. FILM HAPS PRESENTS Page 2 CONCORDIENSIS, October 19, 1971 . . Results:· and Afte,r thoughts fu . ~ , s· i. r·· . ..... o ·. n1on s .pnng . ar<eouer Coninued from Page 1 to lose faith in an administratio.n for whiCh, she believed, the··e was not much faith in the first piace. Of those people involved ;t, ~~e occupation of the Adtninistr~, •·11 Building who were questluued:, none was a member of what was generally viewed as U niori's radical clan, the leading members of which have since departed. Among the \moderates\ talked to, there was general agreement that the Adm:inistration Building takeover had acc.omplished nothing constructive whatsoever although Guy Sacerdoti felt that the people involved had learned a great deal about themselves and the administration. He believed that he, .personally, had lost a good measure of naivete and pointed to the failure of the take over force to achieve its goals as indicative of a need for better organization and planning of such actions in the future. While those whites questioned felt little had been gained by their actions, sor:ne felt the Administration Building coup had decidedly negative effects. Both Michael Conti ·and Bob Sperry were of the opinion that their actions had alienated the student body and diminished student support for the black cause. Sperry also felt that an increase of black-white tensions may have come about due to bla~ks regardinJ the Administration Building occupation as an unnecessary diversion from their own action. I next asked ·those involved in the events of last~ spring to evaluate, in retrospect, the demands and tactic.$ of the black and white groups. President Martin stateq that he had had no change of heart concerning the two items mentioned. While he considers himself sympathetic to some of the demands, he feels that others could not, and can not, be implemented. As for the tactics used, he considers those of both groups to be wrong and unnecessary. favored the idea. deliberation.\ In general, there was not a~ None of the blacks seemed much sup.port for the tactics surprised by the administrative employed as there was for the action.s. WiUia:m Sll'Ockley demands presented. Shockley, termed them ~~political\ Issac Fit;zgerald, and Greg describing the administrative Freelon all voiced the hope that ' actions upon the occupation of negotiations w:ould. pe . pursued ·the. Cl)mp!Jte.r Center as part of a further in the future: · :f\ll · tl1tee: · : •;w~itjn~ ;g(mf! :st.rat¢gy:gesj.gned supported last spring's action and tci detflrmific · ~nii\ eli\cif ·campus Shockley and Freelon bo.th support for the adrrtinistl'ation's stated they would support future • -position pursuant toJ secur-iJ!lg a such actions if negotiations had conl't injunction. Rod Jones reached a. standstiU, Although views the adminis,trative ·moves -Rod Jones supported the as \typical white treatment of Comj')t1ter Center occupation, he minorities.'' On the other hand. feels t;hat any future commitment Issac Ftzgerald,· although on · his . part will be a purely convineed the administration lied personal one and not made under -en the issue regarding the 1247 the auspices of the Black h(>lise, cannot blame the Alliance. Jones ·believes the administration for the actions Alliance shot1ld serve a social they tonk in tegard to the ·actual and non-political . function. building occupations. I>eborah Jennifer Smith described· herself Jenkins, · meanwhile. feels the as being in the· bdd position of administration \made some real supporting the action. physically effort\ to communicate with the but not mentally. Although she blacks at the time of the crisis. actually entered the Computer Greg Fredon had no comment Center, she felt then, as she does other than to · say he . W<tS now, that the take _over was conducting a· study . into the wrong and that talkmg would pFOCedures of the administf>.ttion have accomplished as much as· to determine whether 'the-v· were the occupation did. consistent with those employed As already indicated, most of in similar situations. Freelon also the ·white take-over force criticized . what he' felt · was the regarded their actions as silly. selective enforcement . 0 f the \Unwise\ and \unnecessary\ regulations contained m the were two words used to describe Student Life handbook. the take over. According to Virtually all ·those questioned Doug Stick ell, .. it didn • t who had be~n in . ·on the accomplish anything and there Administration Building never was any hope it would occupation felt President Martin accomplish anything.'' Despite had given everybody a deploring this particular incideAt, ''runaround\. in the question and several people said they would answer session cond)Jcted with countenance a similar action students shortly :before :the: actual under ·different circumstances. take--oveF. Qhuc.k · Kennicutt Chuck Kennicutt, who lai.d the summed· up the:· :prevailing blame for the failure- of last at:titude, \Martin ·could· have Spring's take over on the lack of prevented it if he had been more student support, sai_d that such straightforward.\ There was a support i.n the future would make difference of opinion among the for art effective protest. Bob whites over the administrative Sperry could foresee taking a attitude towards their action. To similar action providing he could Bob Sperry, the students were see no other way to get his point \generally ignored,\ while to across but, in retrospect, feels Michael Conti, the this wasn't the case last Spring. administration's reaction was one The tactics of the of \total intolerance.\ Several administration in response to the students fel.t that the demands and tactics of the black administration should have made and white groups drew decidedly a greater effort to talk and more criticism than, those of the should not have . moved so opposing forces. President quickly to secure an .injunction. Martin defended the actions of However, to Doug Stickell, the the administration: \The general m.ost . outspoken and disgusted principles of our position I still ,participant, \we should have find tenable: no hasty actions, a been el(tricated.\ thorough effort to avoid * * * * exacerbation of the conflict, a Editor's Note: W.C. FIELDS firm front after careful · The conclusion C?f this article will appe(lr in .the !teXt issue of All of the blacks and whites questioned still consider the demands of their respective groups to be valid. Indeed, William Shockley informed me that the Black Alliance was considering presenting other demands upon occupying the Computer Center and that although this idea was eventually rejected by a majority of those involved, he had personally IN FOR LIQUOR & WINE CONCORD!ENSIS . . '7HE BANK DICK\ WED. OCT. 20 7:00, 9:00, 11:00 Try JAKE LIP STEIN'S SS016 $1 00 J 464 State Street ~_---.----------.=-----~---------·---------------+~··---------------F~R--4_-t_s_ss_. __ ~----------- ---~--------·- . NAT'L.· BDS. CONCERT FRIDAY 8 P.M. NOV. 5 Proctors Theater In Troy ARLO GUTHRIE Tickets $5. All Seats Reserved Tickets: At Van Curler's Record's in Albany Mail Reservations: Ted Bayly, 74 Eagle St., Troy . --- ·~· -· -····-· - - ---· ---·--·~----! BABSON COLLEGE (WELLESLEY, MASS.) _ _ ._ .. Graduate M.B.A. Program ON-CAMPUS INTERVIEWS TUESDAY, OCT. 26t 1971 2:30-4:30 P.M. Hey Young Fellas SHOP & SAVE during OLD TIMERS. SALE .__ ____ \ __ s_i_g_n-..:., .. ,u..l..:' ~.' :;~:;;;~;~~ Hoose~~ ...._ _____ T __ . _m_·s_.· _w_· _· _e_e_k ____ O_n_Iy_· _____ _. *,Preparation tor tests required for · admiSllion to grat:luate and pr-ofes- siOhal schools · * Six and twelve session courses * Small groups. • Voluminous material for home study prep13red bv experts in ei3Ch fu~ld * L..esson schedule can be tailored to meet. individual needs. * Opportunity for review of past :lessons via tape at the center Summer Sessions Special Compact Courses Weekends ....- lntersessioras . . STANLEY H. 8<APLAN . EDUCAT'fONAL CENTf!A4TP: '$7!'i E\>so. f6U. Slf.._l ,RroOktvn N ~ ::::::~a: U' OA VS. eveNINGS. W~EKENOS· SINCE 1938. BostOn • Phila • Wtsfuniton \ f>elroi• • ~M Anoiles • 'Miami ne T111~ SChl>!ll wil4 ill~ Notion wid• R~p.r..tillcl •. I c c 2: Bl m (h s. 8; d of wi 21 Sc .i(t he .. ~lt1 C< pe lJ7 pll 13 ol \.0 kn ex ph st~ rei ad a tn~ do (oi

d e y I . ------ -------· ·The Vo·i·ces ·Of ·Eas:t Harle·m . . Combine Nolse With Exc.ite·m:ent by-LEA·PIN' Not since Sha Na Na shook the church rafters. has Memorial ~hapel seen such a c<;~mbination ·Of the excitement and noise that -- ema.nated from the · performance oftbe Voices .. of East Harlem last Friday •night. Just when the pitch rea~hed its peak, zap! The one- 'I he Coffeehouse returns· t.o the Old Chapel at'8:30 this Friday. Oct. 22, with Bertilla Baker. and Bob Bernhardt. Admission· .is ,SO¢, as uswd, and the coffee · and (hopefuily') donut~ are still free. So ·be with\us. Friday for .Bertilla .Baker, Bob Bernhardt, and chapter 2 in the .continuit1g. Saga o[ the missing donuts·! · * ... * *· lhe Sc.henectady P.Y'.E. Club will m.:et ·on Thursday, October 21-, at 7:30 .P.M. in the Social Sciences lounge. All .members .a:n:cl · .apyone interested. in becoming a memf;)er are urged to · ~ltt.~nd. . . . * * * * . The Ph:i !')igma Kappa Coffeehouse is looking for rerfornters. If interested. call M6- lJ7JS and ask for Dave. * * * * Lost: One Vliallet. · If found. please return to Mart in Filardi. 131 Park Pl. Rewal=:d: One gallon nl eider. or: would like tfl clarify one pomt in yo1:1r report of the first ( 'ollege Senate meeting. As a mcm ber of the Governance ( 'ornmittcc last yeai· I was neither for unrestricted \open\ meetings nor absolutely ''closed'' meetings of the College Senate. As I stated la:-1 Wednesday (and as the tape ree,)rding of the meeting will ,,·veal). I wall the author of the ,ompromise by which a.JI •Jll't•tiNgs of the College Senate ·.1re to he tape-recorded and the tapes made available to the entire ·< 'ollegt! community through the l.t!1rary. Now. as your ·report L·orrectly indicated. ·I will support a further \opening\ of the meeting~ if an appropriate room can be found on campu!! where both the taping can titke place and a gallery accommodated. Robert Sharlet Faculty Senator. Division 2 * * •. ·* To the Editor: Dear Alexi; Josef, et at: Oh pain of pains!- Had I but known of your unfo'hunate experience with our illustrious phone company. I' could have staved off such disaster by relating to you the wonderful advice given to me years ago. One night, while sitting around a flaming Sterno can roasting cabbage .envelbped potatoes, the old peasant women.. Babushka Katiuska said to me: \Stefan. you l)kinny little Pollack. when you grow up to be a fat, rich lawyer. you must follow my advic.e. Anglicize your name and buy a telephone. The pbone will save you the cost of carrier pigeons, but you must remember to be wary of tampering with the magic black box. lest yott call down the wrath of the Alll'tighty (otthat ,old sukamJ. M~ Bell!}. · Y @U kMw, years· ngo when your great-great uncle Jaroslav came here from the Old Country, he was but a foolish lad and squandered his precious zloties QO· a telephone. Having ripped- . of~·('Clerived from- the Great hour concert was ove!', the ligb;ts went pn, and an a-ntto\lncement about the Black Students' AUiam;e preempted a justifiable call for an encore. Everything CQncordy said to convince me to see this dynamic group was accurate. After a couple of tunes set the pulsating 1 he American-ScaRdina vi an Foundation has announced a November 1st· application deadline for young .Americans · wishing to :s~udy in. Denmark under the George C. Marshall Fellowship Program. At:>.plicants must be ov~;:r 21 and have completed a bachelor's degree. · Awards are .open to candidates in all fields. Write: The American- Scandinavian FI;J-undation, Exchange Division, 127 East 73.rd ~;treet, New York. N.Y. W021, or see Professor Board of the Political Science Department. •.• * * BIG BOOK SALE NOW AT THE BOOKSTORE!!H * * * * FOUND: On.e female cinnamon-colored kitten, She .has made herself at home in 213 Davidson. Her new phone number is 370.;()216. ICs not that her adoptive brothers don't like cats. but if slies yours, c'mon over and claim her. Slovakian Saga of Vladmir Ripozffski!) another magic box from a repaif' truck for good measure, ·he began attempting to link the phones together to give the Janik family in the next room a phone. (He was such a good-hearted boy!) Cleverly, he disconnected the four wires leading from the coil to the terminals on the white ceramic thing;ie, and taped the wires to the frame. though he realized he could simply remove the whole coil, wires and all. But the Janiks soon realized that the flell on their new phone did not ring, though they could hear the hell from the next room. Wanting to be good Americans, they promptly phoned the telephone company. who were all to happy to solve their problem. Ma Bell and the gang removed the phone, leaving the poor Janiks to rely on their typhoid turkeys. But Ma Bell was a tricky ol' gal and knew a good engineer when she saw one, · so she ,·ounded up the helpless Jaroslav and an ex:ecuttve. you may ask what he did. Well, he certainly did not enjoy the carefree days in those wonderf.ul textile mills like all the ot~r good Pollacks. No, he earn~d lots of money and had to wo~ry about• things like Manifest pace, \Kin<l Woman\ was done by two great singers who did a fantastic five-minute climax on the last \all right.\ Even the overdone \Proud Mary\ sounded great, by contrast in style, after that. Excitement mounted as the ten- year-qld ·man with \CHARGERS\ on his hack did \Oh Yeah,\ and the aU-too~quick climax was performed by a :40(?)- , year-old chick. There is no excuse for a 60-minute show, The lead guitar, organ, bass guitar; and drums, especially the latter two, were excellent. The visual effect of the dancers onstage was that of a wave- sending electricity of happy feelings throughout the chapel. A:part from the length (or lack thereof), the only miriot criticism I had of the Voices of East Harlem was the fact that all of the girls sang in the background, creating a muddy sound. While it didn't sound bad, a stronger and less-populated harmony section would have been optimal. The final song, done without any backup vocals, sounded better than the group effort. However, the sight of several energetic dancers was ideal. After the easy music of the Flying Burrit<> Brothers, the Voices of East Harlem provided a welcome change of pace. Too bad it was so short-lived. (I apologize to those who thought I was goofing on the Burritos in my last review. l did love 'em. Doubters, reread 'it Destiny and the Burden. So I warn you,\ Stefan, when you're fat and rich, pay the extra zloties and don't tamper with the phone, or you may end up like poor ol' Jaroslav!\ The Old Babushka was right about one of those things I should d.o., Sincerely, Andy Rogers '72 Steve Zaloga '73 P.S. While waiting for my next incredible saga, see if you can scare up a. 150 microfarad, ISO volt capacitor and four heavy duty silicon rectifiers. My babci told me a great tale about, cousin Nicoli and ..... * * * * To the Editor: I have found two basic' flaws in Mr. John C. Glidden's · letter · (Concordiensis, October 15): his reference to Mike Meserole's article and the reasoning of his argument. First, Mr. Glidden has made grossly inaccurate references to the article. ''Four~Ietter words\ occur frequently, but I have assumed that his mention of these indicated obscenities, the usual implication of this phrase. I just could not find very many. \Crap\ and \damn\ come about the ~closest. \'Ass\ also comes quite close - within one letter. Also. Mr. Meserole mentioned that the police were powerless in recovering the television set, because they had \little to go on.\ Mr. Glidden, it seems, didn't see this sentence. That some people think of the \Fuzz\ as \PIGS\ is irrelevant: Mr. Meserole did not suggest that· idea. The mention of Swiss bank accounts was not an ac'busation aimed at. \grQwn-ups;· but rather was mentioned . in conjunction with another serious pr-oblem as an exam}lle of the uses of illegitimately-gotten money. The ·sentence .speaks for itself: \If the money is there through legitimate means,Jine, but when that is not enough, there always seem to be CONCORDIENSIS, October 19, 1971 Page 3 Psst, Chris Euert Uses A BJK Club . . . by MIKE' MESEROLE The Friday of the Chris Evert,-Billie Jean King match there was a power blackout in Forest Hills. from Dartmouth Avenue to Harrow Street, nothing electrieal was working. In addition to h~merous unscheduled refrigerator defrosting& throughout the netghbo:hood~ the mammoth Marlboro Country scoreboard inside tl.\~ tenru~ stadium stood lifeless. In tile stands and on the court, however, there was no shortage of electricity at all. On the court below, 17 photographers lined the referee's side of the playing area armed to the teeth, while ten mounted movie cameras dug in wherever there was room. Above and behind the court, countless telescopic camera lenses gave a jammed press box the look of a snipers convention. In the bleachers, the harried ushers were using shoehorns to squeeze in the capacity-plus gallery. And, finally, on the courtside, VIP veranda, underneath the scoreboard that didn't work, sat tennis fan Spiro Agnew. Back up in the less prestigeous seats of Section 6, sat the Larchmont Mafia, Chii~sie Evert's ardent contingent of relatives. Swelling .its r~nks from a previous high of 16 on Wednesday, the mdb now numbered 24, hi addition to the regulars, Uncle El and Aunt tommie had flown in from Ohio, Chuck Evert and his wife had arrived from Georgia, and most important of all, Jim Evert, Chrissie's father, had come up from Ft. Lauderdale with Chris's sister Jeanne and brothers Drew and Johnny. Friday afternoon, September 10, 1971, at Forest Hills: of the 13,000 people crammed into that stadium, thousands had taken the day off from the job to see the 16-year old kid make or wake from her impossible dream. Chrissie';, Uncle George had summed it up three weeks before during the Eastern Open in New Jersey: \I wish she'd hurry up and get this over with so we c~tn all go back to work.\ As Chrissie and Billie Jean came onto the court, to a rousing ovation, and began to warm up, the pre-match speculation that occupied the gaUery before their arrival intensified. Did Chris stand a chance against King? Could King stop Chris? Two days before, former Wimbledon champ-turned-commentator Ann Hayden Jones had said, \Chrissie will have little trouble with Leslie (Hunt), but Billie Jean will kill her.\ Also two days before, Uncle Joe Sinnott analysed Mrs, Jones' analysis, \Jones is one of Chrissie's critics. She can afford to be, she's retired.\ The way things· turned out that afternoon, Chris's supporters ·were wishing that MI'S. King was the retired ex~Wiinbledon queen. In what many knowledgeable people agreed to be her finest tennis performance in over a year, Billie Jean taught Chrissie a lesson in pressure high-stakes tennis and rang out twelve o'clock for Cinderella, 6-3, 6-2. It was a good match for Chris, but a great one for Billie Jean, as the experienced Californian tirelessly patrolled her half of the court disrupting Chrissie's powerful baseline game by forcing the yo\lngster to chase unreachable drop shots and lob returns. After the last game the crowd knew that it had seen a terrific match, and there was a strong feeling in Section 6 that we'd all be back next September. For the next two days Chrissie and .the Larchmont gang unwound as best they could. There were two family dinner parties; one the night of the King match, which had been scheduled earlier regardless of the outcome, and the other the following night at the Larchmont Shore Club, where Jim Evert had his first steady job as a tennis pro. At both gatherings the mood was one of celebration, especially the first party, where the whole family surrounded the TV at 11: IS and watched Chrissie lose to King three times in three minutes on three stations. On one channel, father Jim appeared in an interview taped before the match and predicted that Chris didn't have much of a chance. He was roundly booed. \I didn;t wanna let you down, Dacl,\ giggled Chris. Saturday afternoon, the Mens' semi-finaJ round was rained-out and on television· CBS ran a repl~ty of the Evert-King match in its place. While her sister and brothers analysed and rehashed the contest, Chris sat back and watched the screen, a little disbelieving, but aware of the fact that in the past month and a half she had played some pretty fair tennis. And with a Billie Jean King autographed racket, too. w .... •• ' ' ••••••••• '111 ............... ··K••• w '• • ··• ••• w '. • o' ,.. , \' 1l \ - - • \ ~ \ \ \\' .. 00( \ \-)it(\\'. 1/( ~ ~ • ,. • ,.. .. ..... ... • ~ • • ••••• people who tum to illegitimate means to get more, whether it's to feed a habit or an unlisted bank account.\ That Mr. Glidden thinks of professional athletics in terms of \a dollar or two\ merely shows his amazing ignorance of that field, and needs no refutation. Mr. Glidden has obviously missed the entire point of the article, but this is really not a major problem. It is his pervading defensive attitude that is so disheartening, for his feelings are a manifestation of something much deeper. He simply cannot accept any implication that he has anything to do with student disillusionment, or with the deplorable situation of crime. He will not admit that there might be s()mething wr:ong with his very life structure, with t-he American Ethics: pQlice bl'lltal.ity doesn't e~ist; our governm~l· ·-has only the.best interests of thii' people at heart; the young radicals will destroy the country. How any(,)ne could possibly reject these values completely escapes him. lt is a basic insecurity deeply embedded in Mr. (Hidden and those who share his views. They must rationalize what exists rather than try to change it; they blame it on students, and their narrow tunnel of life· narrows even more. If Mr. Meserole's article represents the \calibre of most undergraduate invective these days,\ Mr. Glidden's vicious attacks represent the calibre of most reasoning emerging from that group of ego-constricted neurotics of which he is a member. Sincerely, David W. D'Aprix, class of 1973 TWENTY FREE DRINKS will be given away this week on WR UC, to be claimed at a LIVE REMOTE radio broadcast at THE CORNER TAVERN (222 Front Street) on Friday, Octctber 22, from 8 p.m. to Midnight. Plenty of free drinks (your choite) will .also be given away at the . Corner Tavern.. So join WRUC Friday for a night of fun and games. And Usten this week for the Free Drink Contest, on WRUC - ()40 •

.· Page 4 CONCO~DIENSIS, October 19,1971 I ' .. ·' • c I' Concordy SpOrts Oh No! RPI Breaks Grid Streak 35-18 by LEAPIN For the first titne since 1959, the Dutchmen Shees trophy is in the posse~sion of the R.P.I. Engineers, by virtue of their 35· 18 win over Union College on Saturday at '86 Field in Troy. The Garnet suffered through a scoreless first half fot the third successive game, and as . was the case against St. Lawr-ence, a furious flurry in the final fifteen proved to be too little and too late. · RPI got its 13th win in the 69 coiJ!eSts between the oldest New York State rivals aft~r the Dutchmen had taken eleven straight and 52 overall. l 'nion hal/had: Ira Turret, ail 5'4\ (d. him, drives between two RPI defenders in last Saturday's 4-0 lo.n in Tro; De,\pite Turret's efforts. the Garnet offense could drive nothing into the Engineers' x,oal, and Union returns home tomorrow q{ternoon with a 2-1-1 record to take on Hobart at 2:30P.M. For the most part, U niort contained Kalle Kontson, who caught but four of quarterback Bob Baron's passes, for 63 yards. Garnet defensive halfback Pete Keller did a super job on the great flanker. Kontson dropped some passes he should have had, and Keller made a spectacular diving interception in the first quarter. Photo by -Bruce Turecamo Further Woe: .Booters Fall To Engineers, 4-0 \J MARTY BEKMAl\'' . -. But that concentrated effort allowed Baron to hit his backs and other ends consistently. To be exact, he connected 16 times out of 30, totaling 201 yards. Five passes, for 64 yards and two touchdowns, went to freshman end Bob Sokolowski. . . . to score. the turKeys were tougu. M 001 :11 t, spotting a J-4 record, The Engineers of R.ennserear RPI came out ready to play iJ1 ·11 ·n b h · Polytechnic Institute handed the the second half and effective}) ~~ s~ . . e a h toug d oppolnen~ Union soccer team their initial ended the game with a three goal th ~Y ave outs bot abn . outpla)ke d fi f h · · s rd . . e1r opponents ut een un uc y b e eath 0 t e camhprugn at.u . ay burst m the thtrd quartet. Two of up to this date. Until Neil and At last, the Garnet got their y t e more t an convmcmg the goals were scored by Anicet M k B · kl h score of 4-0. The Dutchmen now \Lucky\ Kamanga and Case) I' ar ~ . ey, ret~n . to t ~ .ground game ·together. Ron Westbrook gained 89 of the Dutchmen's 253 rushing yards and two of its touchdowns. on 17 take their 2-1-1 season record up Trap pen burg put in the otheJ hmelfbu p, k mon s '11 o . enbse an · t H b h G · · . . a a<;: corps WI not . e up to agams a art, ere on eorge one Trappenburg had been abb A d th n 'II h Daley Field, at 2:30 Wednesday handled by Ira Turret but he got ptar .. hnt .te ol·f entselwih. ave to aft . . . ' . . s ratg en 1 se ou . t as yet to ernoon. . loose once and slipped the ball jell since the first contest a 3-l T. he Garnet played a great ftrst by goalie Jim Sletteland t · h T · · 'd h h If 'all h d fi · d · nump over nmtv an as a ~ espect y t e e ense, an The fourth goal came on a d d f 1 • · h 1 carries. Once again, though, it was too late, for Union could not penetrate into Engineer territory until the third period. l f fi ld h lf · · h - pro uce .our goa s m t . e ast e t the 1e at a tlme Wit a penalty kick in the last period. th I · A d · · ree games. score ess .tie. ten on InJUry to RPI's second stringers played the- <::;o-captam Art Fraser greatly last 22 minutes preserving the- Champ·lons And· Dynastl•es hmdered the offense, b~t t~~re shutout and adding the fnal tally. . . . .· . . ·. .· . · · . was only one excuse for mabdity But Harriers Win, _§nap RPI~s. String by MARK MINDEL s!J,ould go-to Tim McCabe, People were predicting it. junior tri-captain, who led the Professor Bick called it on the race in the early going and tired nose: the cross-country team out the third and fourth place would beat R.P.I. fo:r the first finishers, Engineers Swierzak time since 1959, while the and Feuerriegel. Moeckel and football team would likewise be Kearney were then easily able to beaten. beat the Engineers on their home Fantasy became fact Saturday hill, the one on which the at about four in the afternoon as Engineers usually destroy Union. fists and flying · kicks from McCabe dropped back to · 7th football players and Garnet place, but frosh Jim Johnson rooters alike marked the bitter came on strong to take fifth, and frustration of losing to the tri-captain Dave Rife closed the \Sliderulers\. Earlier in the day, bo()ks on the Engineers by however, the frustrated harriers garnering the ninth spot. avenged eleven straight losing Sophomore Bob Nesbitt an<f years to R.P.I. 24-31. freshman Jim Smith rounded out Bryant Moeckel, senior tri- . the Garnet finishers capturing captain, had the distinctive honor II th and I 2th places~ of doing in the \rippies\ by The final score of the meet was pulling away from the field to 24 for Union and 31 for R.P .I., take winning laurels in the time and although the score was of 24:48 for the hilly 4. 7 mile similar to the football game, the course. outcome was quite different. Freshman John Kearney The next meet was today, as with WOODY Is my face red? Do I like cliches? Does it really matter to anyone whether or not I, or anyone else, accurately predicted the outcome of the World Series or the RPI football game? The Pittsburgh Pirates are now the \world's\ baseball champions, having won America's \World\ Series 4 games to 3 . behind the clutch pitching of Steve Blass and the hitting of Series MVP Bob Clemente. And the Baltimore Orioles are no longer the team of dynasty - the greatest team since the 1927 Yankees. The O's may be a finely ptecisioned team - but over 162 games, not 7 games - and their dynasty was as shott lived as the one-year reigns of the Boston Bruins a·nd the New York Knickerbockers. Basketball. Now there's a sport which has seen a real dynasty - the Packers, Canadians, and Ya~kees notwithstanding. You come back in 1984 and tell me how many playoff titles Kareem Jabbar has won. In l3 years, Bill Russell led the Boston Celtics to 11 playof.f championships. Dynasty. · · That was before the days of the current ABA, now a legitimate pretender to the NBA throne of \World Champions.\ The Milwaukee Bucks, in fact, cannot really claim to be American basketball champions until they dispose of this year's ABA winners. The Pirates, however, can crow about being the American baseball champions, but they are not world champs. \ihe World Series\ is another pompous .notion of the America-is-best thinking. Preposterous? Not realiy. On Sunday, the Tokyo Yomiuri Giants won a record seventh Japanese World Series of baseball with a 6-1 decision over the Hankyu Braves in the fifth game of the classic. A near capacity crowd of 43,500 watched at Tokyo's Korakuen Stadium, 4,000 less than at Baltimore that day. But the Pirates won't challenge these Giants. Instead, the Orioles will embark later this month on an 18 game tour of Japan, and the question of baseball's \world champions\ will not be resolved. As has been the cas.e in each of its three losses, the Dutchmen defense yielded a big seven in its first effort of the game. RPI had t:o go only 49 yards ,and with a Raron-to-Sokolowski strike of fifteeiJ, yards, ·took eight plays to do so. Larry Fairchild, fi,v~-for­ five on PAT's for the d<?-y, connected on the conversion. Just into the second quarter, Jim Niver, preparing to punt from th.e Union end z 0 ne, took a bad snap and wisely completed a pass to Curtis Rowe. But a jarring· tackle forced a fumble, recovered by RPI's Tom Russell. On the very n~xt play, Baron tossed a ten-yard touc:;hdown ,pass to tight end Tom Taylor, and Tech took a 14-0 lead at halftime. Throl!ghout the game, Garnet quarterback Bobby Mitchell had trouble handing off th~ football. One such critical mistake occurred on · a third quarter fourth-and-one at the. Engineer 37. That was only one of four Union fumbles lost, with RPI losing Jive. Three plays later, halfback Tom Eckhardt (98 yards in 19 carries) made it 21-0 with a 26- yard sweep to .paydirt. · The Dutchmen started the n.ext series with the usual inept rush into the middle of a strong RPI line for little or no gain. 8ut, suddenly, Mitchell faked a pass and kept on the option. Scooting around right end aild then .cutting brilliantly to the left sideline, he was brought down on the Engineer's 13. The 62 yards he gained were more than the Garn~t could garner in the entire first half. Then, Westbrook finally ripped through that seemingly invincible wall for the score. Mitchell missed his first extra point after eight straight conversions, and it was 21-6. Things got worse before they got better. After a 32-yard return of a Niver punt by Sal Gianone, Baron hit Sokolowski from the 19, making it 48~6. Then, with' twelve points in twelve seconds, the Garnet made it close, but no cigar-er, shoes. Another Niver-to-Gianone punt resulted this time in a fumble by the latter at RPI's 19. Bruce Mathias took it in from the four, and a pass for two points was incomplete. RPI then fumbled on its first play from scrimmage, and Westbrook went around left end from the riine. Again, the two- point pass attempt was futile. On the day, Mitchell. hit only four of twelve passes, for 24 yards. Engineer Jeff Sassaman sealed the verdict with a 13-yard gallop to up the final score to 3 5-18. The Fall Weekend matchup next Saturday promises more of the same, as Hobart faces the fading Union College Dutchmen at 1 :30 at Daley Field. followed Moeckel in the time of the harriers • traveled to 24:59. Middlebury .. They return home Much of the credit, however on Friday, hosting Hamilton at 3:30. 1-----·----\·--------------------~- Do You Want To·Be A Connoisseur of Wine? In case you'd forgotten, I liked the Orioles, and I also picked Union in last Saturday's football game. But a combination of Homecoming Weekend, a potent passing performance, and the Dutchmen's own II year dynasty turned the trick for the Engineers. 1t .also helped to have the Garnet give a lethargic performance. Now RPI coach Dick Riendeau can be proud of his 1-9 record against Union, and the Dutchmen gridders have the dubious distinction of facing Hobart, Williams, and Middlebury in the next three weeks. P, HOCKEY CLUB ~ MEETING l Join the New Wine Club At Moffett's Liquor Store (across the field on the corner of Van Vranken Ave.) • Last Saturday? Hobart'·s record dropped to 3-1 with a 21-28 lm;s to · Alfted. Williams, also 3-1, whomped Bowdoin 55-0, and Middlebury, 4-1, merely defeated Hamilton 61~18. Hamilton doses out -the Union schedule on November 13 and now sports an 0-4 record. They have been outscored 176-45, and that's an average of 44--11 a game. . Could the Dutchmen be looking ahead to that win? 1\ ANYONE INTERESTED f I_; IN SKATING t f PLEASE ATTEND ,~. 1: THURSDAY . . ocr. 21, 1971 t I f . t L~~ ~l~-;rw··~:~ ., .. ,~_::.!-:!~) ., ·'· .. ' .. ( ~ a s t I ] ( I ·• t I . ( 1 1

- Lch of :hmen in its 'I had vith a e of :tys to ·e-for- d<i!y, arter, .punt )oka ted a ut a mble, tssell. laron :l'own .ylor, d at unet had ball. take lrter neer four RPI 'ack 19 26- t.ext ush tPI hit, 'ass ing 'len left on ere ll!d :llf. )Cd ble tell ter it Ley :rn 1e, he In de nt JY ce tr, as ~t d d i ) ) f . . . ' . ·.SCHENECTADY' NEW YORK OCTOBER 22, 1971 Price Twenty Cents Further Comments Upon Spring DiSciplinary Acts Security Director Comments on ·Theft by JOHN PIZZUTO contact the Richmond control desk (open 24 hours), ext. 3Jl on the colle~ switchboard; or dial direct, 346-2880. by REID RUSSELL Perhaps one of mf more curious findings was the students• attitude towards the administration's securing court injunctions against the building occupants and prosecuting occupants before the Discipline Committee. As has already been noted, these actions were not entirely unexpected by the offending groups but not only did they exp.ect th~se moves, they had no quarrel with the right of the administration to make them. I did not hear one student complain that the administration did not have the right to take , such a stand. In terms of . volume, more criticism was reserved for the Discipline Cottlin.ittee, both of its workings and its fmdings, than for any other grol;lp, including the three main antagonists. The blacks and the whites were tried before two separate Committees but some of the criticisms are applicable to both bodies. the biggest criticism of the two Committees was of procedural matters. Several people, both black and white, made references to how the time- honored concept of \innocent until proven guilty\ was replaced with \guilty untit proven innocent, before the tWo Committees. In other words, the students felt it was the task of the administration to build a case against them instead of having it presumed. as they felt it was, antJ, thus having the burden of proof lying on their shoulders. There was also quite a bit of criticism directed at the penalties levied. The blacks were upset over what some judged to be excessive fines but, more often, over the mere idea of fines for scholarship students which, to them, seemed ludicrous. The · white students were more · concerned over what they considered to be \personality fines\. large fines given certain individuals solely because the administration was out to \get\ them. President Martin dissented from the mainstream of thought: \'Although I did not hear testimony developed before the Discipline Committee, from what I have told about it, I judge the penalties to have been reasonable.\ In the four weeks sinee classes began, a series of theft!! has afflicted Union College. More !;pecifically; several cars were broken into and the tape decks removed. According to Mr. John H. Kleinkauf. Union's Director of Security. forcible entry into locked cars and the resulting ·. thefts ha!t . become · the most proininent difficulty on campus: Petition For Amnesty Is Released Pardon For Draft Resisters Urged In view of the volume and nature of the criticism, some of which reflects directly on the character and integrity of those who served ori the two Committees. I thought it best to go to the Chairmen of the Committees, Professor H. Alan Nelson of the English Depart- ment, Professor Richard . B. Russ, chairman of the Department of Electrical Engineering, for their side of the story. Nelson presided over the black student hearingl! while Russ reigned over those of the white students. This has proceeded to such an extent that it warrants the aid of the Schenectady police. A case in point is the pick-up truck that was seen cruising through the parking lot be~nd Fox and Davidson one night last week. Amnesty fot all . offenses· related to · the War in Vietnam was urged by a group of sixteen lawyers·, wdters, and academicians, among them Kenneth .B. Clark, presi.dent of the American Psychological Association; Robert Coles, the Harvard psychiatrist; Erik Erikson, the renowned psychoanalyst and writer; Benjamin Mays, president of the Atlanta, Georgia, Board of Education and former president of Morehouse College;.. Joseph Rauh, Jr., labor and civil rights lawyer; Charles Silbennan, author of major studies in race relations and education; and Andrew Young, former associate of the late Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., who is now chairman of the Atlanta, Georgia, Human Relations Commission. In a statement released in New York and Washington, the group proposed that .. there be no legal recriminations among ourselves The problem, however, is not restricted to these vehicles~ The dorms themselves have been plagued by robbery. In such instances, the c~pus police are unable to do anything because the acts are all too often the result of a student neglecting to lock his door. As Mr. Kleinkauf pointed out, if the students could exercise a bit more responsibility in this area, especially on weekends with the influx of \townies there Would be a considerable decrease in this sort of activity. Fraternities Co-Recipients. Of Brown Memorial T roph!J Mr. Kleinka'llf emphasized that the students have become more aware of the problem and have been of great help in the past. With their continued help, and that of the Schenectady police (who patrol the grounds only when asked by th~ ·· ~choo}), the offenders will be detetied,: In the past, action ·lias ~'.b~err taken against several adolescents from the town and this hilS ·had a very positive effect. Should a student from Union became aware. of any trouble on campus, he can The Stephen P. Brown Memorial Trophy, awarded annually to the fraternity which has the best record in schola,l'Ship, intramural athletics and extracurricular activities, will be awarded this year at half-time of the Hamilton game on Saturday, November 13. The \Brown Cup\ standings for 1970-71 are· as follows: S~gtna Chi and Theta Delta Chi are tied for first place and will be :co- recipients .of the cup. Delta ([:hi, Phi Gamma Delta and D~lta . .tJpsilon. follow in third, fourth. Apply Now Fo-r Committees Applications for the following College and Student commit- tees are now available in the Student Activities Office~ All interested students must fill out applications (even if you have previously submitted your name or otherwise indicated your interest.) Academic Opportunity .......•........... 6 undergraduates Computer Science .. , ....•.........•....... 4- \ -Environment ••.. e ... \ ••••••••••••••••••• , 4 \ Elections .• ~ •• , ••.•..•.•....... ·\· ..... ~ . 5 \ Student Ufe ........ d ••••••••••••••••••• 5 \ All completed applications are due., in the Student Activi- ties Office no later than Friday Oct. 29 at 4:~0 P.M. A list of committee functions. is also available in the SAO. Any student having questions should call David Robbins at ·372..0804 or speak with Mts. Marra in the SAO. and fifth places respectively. Beyond them, there is a three- way tie f!Jr sixth place involving Beta Th¢ta Pi, Delta Phi and Phi Sigma Delta (now defunct). Tied for:ninth plaee are Chi Psi and ~hi Sigma Kappa. Alpha Delta Phi, Phi Delta Theta, Psi Upsilon, Sigma Phi and Kappa Alpha fill out the remaining of · the fifteen places. In addition to the results of the Browp. Trophy Award; the Fraternity Schelarship standings for '1970-1971 were released by the Dean of Students Office this weels:. Phi Sigma Delta wins this contest posthumously, with a house index of 3.21. Theta Delta Chi finished a close second, being the only other house to clear 3.0, with 3.04. Phi Delta Theta and Phi Sigma Kappa tied for third with 2.93. Sigma Chi rounds out the top five with 2.87. The All- College average falls at 2.82, with the all-fraternity average slightly below at 2. 78. Both of these figures fall between Chi Psi at 2.83 and Phi Gamma Delta at 2.77. The fraternity averages ran~d · from Phi Sigma Delta's high of 3.21 to Psi Upsilon and Alpha Delta Phi's shared low of 2.59. for . the fighting and .refusing to fight this wat.\ It pleaded ''Let go those who refused to fight a war that we as a nation have come to detest and to believe wrongly fought. Let go those who ran afoul of military law during a war which many think is itself illegal.\ The petition for amnesty was addressed to the Congress, the executive branch: the various presidential aspirants, the public at large, and \especially to the young men whose lives have been dominated by this war, in the confidence that they, wherever they are, are already concerned with the making of a better America.\ The statement says that more than 70,000 young Americans are in exile abroad to avoid the draft and that perhaps 12,000 or more men have been subjected to military courts for offenses committe~ while in the service. \While men of our generation Continued on Page 3 Confronted with the procedanl complaints, Russ Continued on Page 3 1-D cards are available at the Dean of Students. Office. . Isaac Asimov~ the multi- dlseiplined seholar whose books span the range from science fidion to Shakespeare and alm0$t everything in , between, WJ1llecture at Union, Tuesday, October 16. Asimov, who is a professor of bioChemistry at the Boston University School of Medicine when: be is not writing, will speak at 11:30 a.m. in Mern.oriaJ Chapei. In addition to his more than 100 popular science ficti()n novels, he has written books .on history, . English literature, matbenta ties, physics, astronomy, chemistry, biol:ogy, biochemistry and philolowr. The Social Committee presents Brewer and Shipley, an evening of folk music, in concert at 8:30p.m. in Memorial Chapel on Saturday evening, October 23. Tickets will be sold at the door for $4.

·Page 2 CONCORDIENS/S, October 22, 1971 Managing Editor Doug Wong Asst. Managing EAJitor Gail W. Goodman Contriblltlag ~ ·william Eiolieran Mike Meserole Editor-in-Chief Louis S. Snitkoff News Editor Howard Stone Sports Editor George S. Bain Photography Editors Jody Saslow Charles Long Assoc. Photography Edito1 Dave Conrey Features Editor Matthew $wartz Business Manager Joseph ·P. Achenbaum Natio11al Advt. Manager Mark Shulman · Subs~riptions Manager Michael Hurley STAFF: Mark Urman, Jim S~itb, Bruce Turetamo, Bob Johnson, Jim Rostenberg, Chris MandeVille, 1 Frank DeLudJ!., .·Les GoldJDl!D, Ro~emary Rice, Don Kaplan, Rita Morandi, BarbiU\a McDonald, Patty Sipe, Richard Kern, Gary (Leapin') Leiderman, Marty Berman, Mark Mindel. tAl Reisch, Jerry Macher, Joe Monkofski. _ Published Tuesdays and Fridays during the school year by the student body of Union College, Schenectady, N.Y., National Advertising Representative, National Educational Advertising Service, Inc., College Publishers Representative, 360 Lexington Ave., N.Y.C, Eqitorial office, Old Gym, Union College. Publication Office, The World' Publications, 771 State Street, ~chenectady, N.Y. 12307, 346~2356. Entered in the Schenectady post office as Second Class Mail Matter. Subscriptiqn 20 cents a copy.'$8 a year' delivered anywhere in the Onited States. Student Buyer's Guide In. recent weeks, the Student Buyer's Guide has been the subject of heavy and unrelenting attack by the local college newspapers, Concordiensis, to some degree, included. However, the time has come for a re-evaluation of the premises on which this attack was launched. While it may seem as though this comes as a direct reply to the Editorial in the most recent issue of the Guide, it is rea:lly the result of a personal meeting which I had with David Cavanaugh last week. Most of the misconceptions commonly held by the opponents involve Cavanaugh's involvement with the Associated College Media (ACM) last year. Cavanaugh's idea behind forming ACM was to provide a sourc-e of advertising for all college newspapers. ACM failed, he charges, due to the refusal of the Albany Student Press to participate, despite a .. gentleman's agreement that it wopld participate.\ In fact, Cavanaugh and ACM ended the last school year several thousand dollars in the red. The results of his enterprises for the 1970-1971 year indicated that ACM could not be · a successftdl notion without more widespread s~_pport from the college newspapers. So, rather than declare bankruptcy, he procured a personal loan, enabling him to remit to Concordiensis the large sum of advertising revenue he had earned for us. Since it is not my intent to reiterate Cavanaugh's editorial, I would urge that the editorial be read, especially for its value in presenting the background of the situation. The real issue behind the entire conflict, as Cavanaugh says, is one of freedom of the press, and to expect the college to ban the Guide from campus would be a totalitarian request. While the question is slightly more complex than a case of \healthy competition\ due to the nature of Cavanaugh's profit-oriented publication as compared to the non-profit campus newspapers, it is this distinction which explains why it is impossible for Cavanaugh to be in direct competition with a campus newspaper. The fact of the matter is that, contrary to early expectations, our advertising revenue was not seriously affected by the advent of the mguide irt the tri-cities area. We have found that most of our old advertisers have decided to continue advertising in Concordy, and it is these businesses which would not profit· much from advertising in the Guide to begin with. Students are urged to re-evaluate the situation, before making hasty decisions concerning the Guide's place on the Union campus. o the students a service of which Concordy is incapable, but its content dictates that it cannot replace the student newspaper, which serves a function of its own. The Student Buyer's Guide does not represent an attempt to undermine the campus newspapers, and it could only be the staff members of a paper which occupies a precarious position on its campus who fear the effects of Cavanaugh's advertising. Cavanaugh is not a \capitalist pig,\ as some suggest and it is time for all of the local campus newspapers to stop ripping him oft. - L. S. S. STEREO • 4-Channel Sound • Now at your Music Headquarter LAFAYETTE RADIO-ELECTRONICS 141 ERIE BLVD. 34«1-6111 CONCERT FRIDAY 8 P.M. · NOV. 5 Proctors Theater In Troy ARLO GUTHRIE Tickets $5. All Seats Reserved Tickets: At Van Curler's Record;s in Albany Mail Reservations: Ted Bayly, 74 Eagle St., Troy To the Editor: I greeted the recent editorial concerning campus mail service with mixed emotions. I was directly concerned as a member I of the campus mail staff, and while I felt that certain criticisms were valid to a degree, others · showed a lack c;~f investigation. In regard to the distribution of · . package~, the curreni system of evening pick-ups was established 1 for two reasons: 1'( to allow one person to control the s~gning-in and signing.out of .packages, a process required by the school to prevent theft er loss; and 2} to allow the student workers in the mailroom to sort and distribute . · the mail in the shortest time. We recognize the deficiencies in this system, and are currently making chang~s which we feel will .benefit the student body. While the presence of football games on Saturday may be the logical explanation for the inefficient deliv.eries on past Saturdays, it is not the correct one. Due to a peculiarity of scheduling, the mailman who normally services the campus is given Saturday off each week. This results in a weekly session of mass confusion among the members of the Postal Service Downtown who cannot seem to deliver on time on Saturday. Three weeks ago, the mail for Fox and Davidson was not only dropped off late, but deposited in the Fox Lounge, where it was discovered by a rapidly-formed posse. One week later, I was forced to call the Post Office, having futilely waited· until noon for the arrival of the mail. The foreman informed me that they were. not supposed to deliver any mail on Saturdays, that there had been no mail sorted for Union College, and therefore no mail would be delivered that day. Thus, it came as no surprise that the mail was dropped off shortly before dinnertime. Last week saw a repeat performance, as the mail arrived sometime during the RPI game, or shortly thereafter. As the writer of this editorial mentioned, we are paid to distribute the mail. However, we are not paid to sit and wait all day for the mail to arrive. Despite recent inconsistencies weekends, I can remember no case of the mail waiting because the mailmen had left to watch a football game at Union, or go to any other event. With luck, these Saturday problems will be remedied shortly. Sincerely, Steve Manus '72 * * * * Dear Everybody: Please be forewarned. This is a letter concerning .,robberies. By now, we're into four whole weeks of living here, so you've been exposed to quite a number of letters on the subject (e.g.,. the one about Abbie Hoffman's Steal This Book; Mike .. Meserde's Wanted MORE FreslunaJn Customers Dulbrose Cleaners 1517 VmVnmken Ave. We Oean Everything .FilM HAP·S PRESENTS lNGMAR BERGMAN'S MASTERPIECE \The Passion of Anna\ starring Max Von Sydow, Liv Ullman; Bibi Andersson · Sat & Sun • Oct 23,24 7:00, 9:00,, 11:00 . . $8016 $1.00 ' ' . Don't Steal This T, V ., etc.) ~ so . if you're bored with reading about being robbed, all right. But I'm bored with being robbed. I live in South College. Two weeks ago, I left my room momentarily. It was a routine trip to the bathroom. On the. retutn flight, I watched two people as they left my room. Checking out my possessions, I found that I had been robbed. My roommate . returned shortly after, took a look at my disarrayed dresser and said: \Let me guess: Missing: one (1) wallet; leather; roommate's. Carrect?\ Very good, Paul. The following weekend, .(the nite of the \Voices\ concert) my roommate and l . were in .our room when five peopl~ · stopped by. They explained how they needed some money \to get back to Utica.\ (I didn't believe them; I've been to Utica ~ there's nothing there) and as they explained, they liberated one {1) wallet; leather; roommate's. \-And I feel like I've been here before.,.\ Since by now I felt I had more than qualified for my Ex,perienced Victim Merit Badge, I decided I'd take some kind of direct action. When my wallet was stolen, I let it ride; I had \nothing to go on,\ since the robbers split. But when Paul's was taken, the situation was a little different. As all five of the \Utica Boys\ were Black, we thought we might find one or more of the people involved at the Davidson party that followed the concert. We did. (It was at this .point that I experienced my first real contact with U. Coil's top-flight Security Force. It was at a point soon after that I decided to write a letter, mentioning said Force.) After we lotated and spoke to one of the accomplices (with little relevant ·response on his part) Paul went up to the Nipple to explain the situation to \Security\ and to request their assistance. (We didn't want \revenge or legal action taken; we wanted a wallet, and we thought that if somebody with a uniform on talked to this person, we might do better than. when we talked to him ourselves.) Paul returned alone, and explained that the guards- were going off duty, and that ~e'd have ·to ''wait till the next shift came on\ ~ forty minutes later. Now, I thought that their response was just a little too hard to handle, so I decided to go up there to ·talk to them. (Paul then informed me that since he didn't think we were getting anyplace, he had requested that Security call Schenectady Police - his request was denied; that wasn't their department). Anyway I went up there to ask them at least to come down to the party with me. After talking to them for a while, I realized that these men must reaDy be into working so close to the Mountebanks people, because they put me through a skit like I've never seen before: Me: (Fills in background) Security (1): \You say you got the guy?'' Me: \Yes one of them. My roommate is with him.now.\ Him: \You sure you got the guy?'' Me: \Yeah.\ Him: \You sure you .got the guy?'' SPECIAL DISCOUNT To Union Students GEORGE·;s MUSIC STORE 509 State Street Me: \Yeah.\ llirn: \You sure ... \ Security(2-3): \Did Yot.J say 300 : Blacks? Oh boy.\ · (2·3): \You wanna go down there?\ \Do you?\ \fdon't know. Do you?\ \Well I don't know,..\ Time Pass~. Passes ..... And Security (2) (wearing a little cap; turns to Experienc;:ed Victim, and says) \O.K. let's .go ~ but first Iemme change hats. ·Wouldn't want 'em to 'think I played f()r the Dodgers!'' Now, I didn't expect these men to come. bombing ·doWn the hill in a clo~,td of !lb~t, rounding up the bad g·llys; I really didn't. But then again, I never before realized · what little gets done, after a situation like this oecuts around here. I don't want to turn my dotm into a · goddamn \fortress but then again, townies have been flocking through the halls like they live here. Normally, I wouldn't think twice about \visitors\ - I don;t mind people passing through, and maybe even staying for a While; but then again, my room has been hit twice in two weeks; t-wo ;Qtber people from South were robbed this past weekend; two mor:e students from other dorms were beaten andjor robbed in the past ten days. - And you know, \ ... it makes me wonder, what's goin' on~ .. \ Robert Hertel '72 There will be a jazz ·concert .at the Institute of History and Art, 125 Washingtan Ave. Featured will be Nick Brignola on reeds, Lee Shaw on piano, Frank Tusa on bass, Mike Cononico on trumpet, and Larry Jackson on drums. The concert will be at 2 PM and 3:30 PM, Sun, Oct. 24th. Tickets are $2 in advance and $2.50 at the door, and can be purchased in the· SUNY A campus center, Deja Vu in troy, Albany and Schenectady, and the Arbor Hill Record Shops in Albany. For information call 489- 3886 or 434-1495. A. F. LEATHER BOMBER JACKET $65.00 E'S ~quirt »bnp 4ZOS._,S~ . Taes. & Thurs. 'til 9 • ( cc G a< se nc t~ f< be p a1 a• if R w .PI hi cc pi it p N c~ u si S] cl \ it ( ( r i ~ t t

CONCORDIENSIS, October22, 1971 .Page3 Discipline Cont'd. The Death Of Involvement Co~tiJ1ued from Page 1 which was not brought up at· the hearing itself, and all decisions of both Committees were made in commented that the Discipline the absence of counsel. Nelson Committee hearing had been an descri:bed this issue as being ''one adminis.ttative hearing in a legal of the places where we were sense so that, hence, there were trying to be most scrupulous.\ no legal bounds. He described Both Chairmen dipped into the hearing as an \opportunity supetlative~ to describe the for the defendant to have .. himself integrity and diligence of the beard\ and pointed out that the . members of the ~;espective President had the right to make Committees. Nel8on ·described an arbitrary decision on the guilt the fines for scholarship students and innocence of ~1!-Ch Jn~lividual as the result of limited means if he had so qesired. Although being available to the Russ acknowledged that there CC:,tntnittees for punishing guilty were some questions as to proper students. procedut:e at the beginning of the In conclusion, perhaps the hearing$, he felt that once his thing that struck me the most in committee had clatified the researching this article was the procedure to be used, it adjusted attitude of defeatism harbored by itself quickly. most of tlle black and white In reply to the same students encountered. There is a procedural criticism, Pr9fessor · definite feeling . among these Nelson also admitted that his people th~t :the administra.tion committee had been somewhat won, if that is the pr 0 per word, 1mcertain as to how to handle the last spring's confrontation. Also situation -at first, referring apparent in my round of specifically to the necessity of interviews wa,s a desire to,, more clarification of the· present or less, forget the whole thing attorney's duties. Once these and reevaluate their position on were clarified, however, he felt the part of the students. the Committee gave a fait Perhaps the greater confidence hearing to all those involved. with which President Martin Nelson heUeves that the appears to view his own 'actions procedural criticism .stems from of last spring can be traced to the the desire of the Cemmittee to fact that they were all his give an air .of informality te the decisions alone whereas marty of necessarily forn:lal hearings (a the black and white students \mixed position\ as he termed professed to have been swept it): along by the crowd. At any rate, When confronted with the although possessed with a charge of \personalityn fines\ defeatist attitude, many students both Committee Chairmen went are extremely resentful of one or to great lengths to express the more of the administrative extravagant measures taken to actions of last spring, an attitude ensure the impartiality of their which bodes possible ill for the respective Committees. For future. If .there were only some instance, no one on either way of arriving at the true story Committee was allowed to of what happened and what was present any evidence of his own promised last spring, perhaps this ••----------•,, seeming polarization would not Amnesty Cont'd. Continued from Page 1 dispute blame,''\ the statement comments, \the burden of our mistakes will be their life-long inheritance.\ exist. As it is, however, any effects the events of last spring will have on the future course of Union will be determined more by what people think happened · than by what they knoW. by BOB SPERRY From the eady days of the peace movement up to the strike of 1970, an authentic counter- culture really seemed to exist in America. People were beginning to break away from the straight world, and they left with a defmite purpose in mind. They really seemed to care about stopping a war. They really seemed to believe in peace and brotberhood and several other strange and new ideas.. The movement began to fall apart a little just before the strike, but R:icha,rd Nixon, Cambodia, and some dead bodies at Kent and Jackson State combined to draw the movement together for one, apparently final, try. And ever since June, 1970, things have gone steadily downhill. Last fall, when Laos was invaded, hardly a murmer was raised in protest. The April 24 march on Washington was a quasi-success, probably since the old-fashioned protest marches are more fun than anything else, and besides, thet:e was an all night rock concert. Mayday would have been just as much fun, except an offended America decided to strike back, and opposition seemed to send a lot of people back to where they came from. Last Wednesday there was another good ol' fashioned Moratorium, except again there was something. missing. In contrast to the earlier Moratoriums, in which everyone took part in one way or another (pro or con), nobody on campus seemed to care about what was going on. In fact, most people didn't seem to realize that there was anything going on. The \vigil for .peace,\ held on Library Plaza (Oh, so that's what they were doing!), attracted at most about twenty people, with but a handful remaining for any appreciable length of time. U Col 1971 appears · to be slipping back toward U Col 1955. To be sure, differences do e1tist. Hair is a good deal longer, there are girls on campus, and clothes are much more informal. Marijuana, rather than beer, is our favorite inebrient. T odays average student is probably much more aware of the world and m:uch better informed than his · counterpart of 16 years past. H 0 we.ver, mere external differences will not make an effective counter-culture. The fact that we are better informed about our fucked-up world makes olir apathy even more pitiful. Our one distinction may well be that we are the mast hypocritical generation the Earth has ever seen. We see an incredible mess all around us, and yet we still refuse to give a damn about anything except whether or not the weekend's trip The Comparative Communist Studies Program is presenting a free Soviet film with English narration entitled \Years of Trials\ on Monday evening, October 25th in the SS-016 at 7:30 P.M. All interested students and faculty are welcome. * * * * Anyone interested in Friends of Bangla Dish should contact Tom Babson or Murray Grossman at 346-7726 or Professor Romesh Diwan, Department of Economics RPI. * * * \' Student Senate will meet Tuesday, October 26 in HU 115 at 7:00 P.M. All interested students are invited to attend. *· * * * The Educational Clinic at the Ballston Spa Central School needs volunteers to work with children who are having diffictilties relating or learning in the classroom setting. Interested? Call at 885-5361. Ask for Mrs. Limquist, Mr. Derico, or Mr. Kelly. * * * \' The group of signers of the amnesty statement .emphasized that they were not constituting themselves into an organization, nor were they seeking formal endorsement or finan.cial support. Their intention in publicizing the statement, they said, was to help stimulate a process of national discussion of the issue of amnesty in the hope that informed debate could still result in new national purposes. SELLS GREAT FLAIRS BY LEE Frank van Luik, Vice President for Engineering of Environment One Corp. will discuss Measurement and Control of Air Pollution on Tuesday evening, October 26, in Physics 202, at 7:30 p.m. The talk is sponsored by IEEE and PYE. * * * * Wrestling couch Ev,erling would like Gerry anyone Lafayette Clothes~. 416 State St. SeX IS YOUR BUSINESS birth eontro)guRs We believe your private life should be your own. And when at comes to buying co.ritraceptives, the hassle in a crowded drug- store isn't exactly private. So we've made it possible for you to get nonprescription co,ntraceptives through the mail. We Specialize in men's eontzaceptives and we offer two of the most exciting ones available anywhere-Fetherlite and NuForm condoms. They're better than ;mything you can get in a drugstore. Imported from Britain, they're lighter, thinner, more exciting to use; and precision manufacturing and testing techniques 111ake them as re• liable as any condom anywhere. Made .by LRl, world's largest manu- facturer .of men's contraceptives, Fetherlite (the best) imd NuForm not· only conform to exacting USFDA specifications. but are made · to British Govt:rnment Standard 3704 as well. We think you'll like t.hem. Our illustrated ·brochure tells you all about Fetherlite and · NuForm. And about seven other American brando;; which we have carefully selected from the more than one hi.mdred kinds available today. And we explain the dirt'erences. We also have nonprescription foam. for women and a Wide . variety of books and pamphlets on birth control, sex, population, and ecology. Want more information? It's free. Just send us your name and address. Better stil.. for one dollar we\ll send you all the informa- tion plUs two Fetherliie samples ar.d one NuFoJ'm. For four dollars yoU'll get the brochui·e plus three each of five different condom brands (including both Imports). All correspondence and merchan- dise is shipped in a plain cover to protect your privacy, and We guarantee your money back if you're not satisfied with our products. w~~m · POPULATION PLANNING ASSOC. s. 2 3 0 Box 255&·S • Cbapel Hill, N. C. 21514 Gentlemen: Please send me:- Your free brochUre and price .Jist at no obligation. __ Three ~mples for $1. -- Deluxe sampler pacl(age for $4. Name--------------------------~~-- AddreSs Clty ....---- State Special Introductory· · · · · .jli 20~ai;FF MYE~ TO ACQUAINT YOU WITH OUR NEW TEENMAN SHOP (SIZES 36 TO 42) FAMOUS NATIONAL BRANDS •SPORTCOAtS•SLACKS• • RAINCOATS • OUTERWEAR o VISIT OUR \DEBSDEN\ FOR UNION GIRLS 313 STATE ST., AT ERIE BLVD. Open Thursday 'til9 p~m. to Saratoga will get us laid. So the next time your parents (or anyone, for that matter) ask you what the world will be h\kc after WE take over, please doa'!t .give them any · bullshit ab.ont peace and freedom an.d brotherhood. Just assure them that things won't be any betmr than they are now, and see how satisfied and happy you'll make them. Tell them that men will still murder other men, tlrait people will still cheat and rip\\dlf other people, that people willl continue to hate one another~ But don~t forget to let them knO\W that the world could have beem better, except we were too b:uss sitting on our asses and blowil'.l8 our dope to do anything ab.out!t.. interested in wrestling this yea:r to report to a meetinJg Wednesday at 7:00 p.m. in the Block \U\ Room. * * * \' Anyone interested in workiDE in Senator George McGovern\'~; Presidential campaign shouli!l contact Neil.Kane, 377-4734. * * * * The next session of flre Student Faculty Bridge Club wilm be held on November 2 in the Hale House Faculty Lounge a'1 7:45 p.m. All those interested in participating are welcome. * * * * Dr. William C. Lin-s .. representative from Rutgers Graduate School of Business Administration will be in the Placement Office on Monday~ November 8 to talk to interested seniors. If any senier is interested, he should sign up m the Placement Office before that date. * * * * Please Note, the numb~r r.,, .. the Infirmary is still 346- 3'/.Si, Ext. 216. In anticipation of tire college's going on Centrex system, the -number was fir' ·\' differently in Student Life ant. the college blotters. * • • * Due to unfore·see'll circumstances, Bertilla Baker :w111 not be appearing at th.e Coffeehouse this Friday_ However, the Coffeehouse d present Alan Soares and Bo'D Bernhardt, at 8:30 p.m. in the Old Chapel. (Alan is the performer who appeared wifil\ Rat at the Coffeehouse two , weeks ago.) Admission is 50~ but the coffee and donuts are as free as ever. * * * * Michael Cooney, \A one..,man folk festival,'' will appear all: Skidmore College on Friday, October 22, at 8:30 p.m. in the recreation center. The rec center is on the old campus. Admissiom is 75¢.

Page 4 CONCORDIENSIS, October 22. 1971 Concordy Sports Soccer Boots Hobart; Fraser, Richards ·Star By MARTY BERMAN The Union College soccer team broke out of a several-year-long scoring slump Wednesday with a resounding 5·1 trouncing of a fairly good Hobart soccer team. It was simply a case of the Gamet finally taking advantage of \the breaks\ a8 they repeatedly \tickled the tWines\ with seeming ease to the amazement of an overflow crowd on Daley Field. Hopefully, this momentary hot streak will continue long enough to make feasible an upset over visiting Colgate . Saturday, at noon on Daley Field. The Red Raiders are the toughest opponents for Union this year. They have defeated Cornell handily and may be headed for a post-season berth in the NCAA tourney. · area of the Hobart goal. The Garnet were once again Meanwhile, Hobart put sparked by the play of co-captain pressure .on the Union defense . Art Fraser and Dusty Richards. with long passes on attempted They scored two goals apiece, breakaways. But Sandy Wilder, with the former adding two in another great performanee, assists and the latter one. Bobby and netminder Paul Miller Bernhardt got the last goal for teamed up to hold the Genevans the Dutchmen, his first of the at bay until the offense could get year after several near misses. untracked. Richards and Fraser now have 10 Fraser finally got Union on the of the 12 Garnet goals and have score board with 12:19 left in the figured in all of them. half with a 20 yard blast after For the opening quarter and a Richards fed a Turret pass to half of the game play was even. him. This opened the flood gates. Union's short passing game was With 8:50 left in the half, beautiful and, sparked by the Richards put number two in the excellent performance of Ira nets, connecting from 12 yards as Tutret, the Gamet controlled the the climax of a classic give-and- center of the field. But the go play with Fraser. Five minutes passing game broke down when before the half ended Richards the Dutchmen approached the added the third goal, converting a Turret pass into a 25 yard shot shutout bid. ln the scoring race on the team Fraser now has six goals and five assists, while Richards has. four goals and an assist, Bernhardt and Martini have the other goals. One unfortunate note on the afternoon was the gross lack of substitution oil the part of Coach Bob McMurray. Considering the game was a runaway for the entire second half and even a bonafide rout after six minutes had elapsed in the third quarter, with BULLET the second ~tringers saw· alarmingly little action. It is more unfortunate when one remembers McMurray a$ a coach on the losing end of a 21-3 lacrosse score last spring begging the Cortland State coach to let up and sh<,>w mercy. Wednesday afternoon, in the same situation, Coach McMurray never let up. In the event of possible injury alone, the starters should have been rested, while the reserves can always Use game eXperience. Grid Hosts Land- Locked 3-1 Hobart past a startled Hobart goalie. Fraser kept the ball rollin~ in the second half when he filled an empty net with goal number four at the 16:02 mark of the third period. His six yard chippie was a result of Paul Martini's long entering pass· escaping the shell- shocked Genevan netminder. Union's .rugby club, trying to bounce back after last Saturday's frustrating 3-G loss to Wesleyan in the fall season opener, travels to · Lincoln Park in 'Albany tomorrow afternoon to face a big and improved Albany Medical College fifteen. Gametime is 1 p.m. The Garnets are hoping that they can parlay a swift forward line and a bigger than usual ·serum into their first triumph of the fall - and only their second in over two years. ·wesleyan game. In a \rebuilding year.. for the Garnet, freshmen faces are dotting the starting lineup to the extent tha:t barely half of Union's first team are veterans. Union controlled play .against the Cardinals for most of the contest, but failed to score even though they kept possession of the ball consistently deep in Wesleyan territory. ByLeapin Beginning this season~ Union College, seeking prestige and recognition, entered into the newly-formed New England Small College Athletic Conference. League rules state that ·Garnet freshmen are ineligible in competition against other league members. Union's fmal three foes of the current football season. are members of the NESCAC. That means that this Saturday's game against Hobart (1:30 p.m, at Daley Field) will mark the end of a great year for sem~ational freshman halfback Ron Westbrook. Not only that, but three starting defensive linemen are also in their year of matriculation. They are Bill Spellman, Don Rupsis, and Kevin Gilbert, and they, too, will be confined to freshman ball folloWing the Hobart clash. But amazingly enough, two of those three league opponents of the Dutchmen's, Hamilton and Middlebury, are allowed to use freshmen against the Garnet, since those schools have a slightly lower enrollment than does Union. The strong Middlebury contingent carries 27 rookies on its varsity roster. But there is also the little matter of a three-game losing streak that Union hopes to end against a strong Statesmen squad that had rebounded nicely from a winless 1970 season (0-8). Offensively, Hobart relies exclusively on their rushing game. the 3-1 Statesmen were 0- for-5 in the .passing department before junior quarterbck Bob Raleigh completed two of five passes in the showdown loss (28- 21) to undefeated Alfred last week. The big rushing threat is \A to Z\ junior Don Aleksiewicz. A-Z holds all of Hobart's rushing records, and his 177-yatd average per game (before the Alfred game) is one less than the total of 178 yards picked up by Westbrook, the leading Gamet ground-gainer. A-Z appears certain to exceed the record l,l20 yards he gained last year. Raleigh hims\elf is a dangerous runner. After being sidelined with a broken bone in his left hand, he raced 90 yards for a touchdown up6rt returning to action last week. The Statesman fullback, Jerry Hanley, was averaging 61 yards a game going into the Saxon game. Despite the one-sidedness of the attack, Hobart has pro«uced nearly 300 yards and better than three touchdowns a contest. The defense is also weak on passing, and until yielding three fatal touchdown~ in the final six minutes to Alfred,. they bad been highly successful. Hobart ·has given up 335· yards on the ground in its four games; but more than 700 yards in the air. As mentioned, Westbrook is the leading Union rusher. He also leads in pass receptions with 14 for 233 yards and has scored 42 of the Dutchmen's 83 points on seven touchdowns. Bruce Mathias has scored three, times, one more than fullback Curtis Rowe. Quarterback Bobby Mitchell has kicked 8 of nine extra points and made one of his three field goal attempts to total eleven points. Guard Rich Burrell has been the best Garnet offensive lineman while on defense, of course, there's Charlie Weekes.. After last week's 35-18 loss to RPI, victorious Engineer coach Dick FUendeau smd that he thought \the greatest play of the game came . when Charlie. Weekes rushed· the ·~uarterback on a screen pass, tnen made the tackle of the receiver 26 yards downfield.\ Bernhardt closed out Union's scoring with 11:53 left in the game when he took a pass from Fraser and fired a 15 yard bullet into the left hand comer ·of the net. Hobart finally got onto the -scoreboard with a scant 6:16 left in the contest when reserve goalie Jim Slettleland lost the ball on a cross kick, dropping it onto the foot of a lucky Hobart forward, who promptly showed his gratitude by. spoiling Union's Union's running and passing along the forward line has never looked better, while the serum - still comparatively small in size ~ is appreciably beefier than in previous seasons. Inexperience, however, will probably hamper the Dutchmen in this weekend's contest, just as it did in the JV Booters Split T w\ lose To RPI And Drop SCC . ' . apparenT victory in overtime, by FRANK DELUCIA . after the Engineers had tied the Into the latter half of their game in the fmal minute of 1971 slate the junior varsity regulation play. soccer team seems to have firially Much to Scanlon's dismay, developed a winning attitude this attitude persisted against after two defeats in a row. Schenectady ·Community Coming off a disappointing 4-3 College, as his hooters were loss to Albany State the Garnet \outhustled\ by the locals 1-o in yearlings met RPI last Saturday, the first half. checking the usually tough But after an animated pep talk, Engineers at the outset, while flashy Garn~t forward Walker taking a 1-o lead on John scored two goals· early in the Walker's lone second period tally. second ha:lf. Halfback AI Marcus In the second half, however, contributed another in the the Garnet were overcome by a decisive third quarter after a \complacent attitude,\ as Coach perfect .head ball play by Bill Bill Scanlon phrased it. The Dreg, and reserve forward Steve Dutchmen then dropped the Markell made the·fmal4-l Union. Wesleyan converted a penalty )dck midway through the first half, and made the margin stand up despite repeated Union cracks at the Cardinal's goal line. The Garnet had a · chance of their own to tie up the contest in the second stanza, when they too were awarded a penalty kick from close in. ·The boot ' from a severe angle, however, sailed wide. * * • * The Hockey Club held its first organizational meeting of the- fall last night, hoping to get things · rolling in quest of their first ice win in over two years~ Things have not looked brighter on the Union hockey scene for quite some time, ·as the skaters will finally have some ice to practice oli· 'this winter. The rink at the Girling Center, although small in size, has been renovated through a sizeable gift from alumni, and will prove more than adequate for the Garnet's practice needs. Over the last two seasons, irt which Union dropped eigJlt lopsided contests in a rpw' the pucksters were sadly out of.shape and out of practice due to an ·inability to obtain practice icetime at the busy RPI · Fieldhouse. Harriers Win Fourth, NJp M,lddlebury 25~33 Nusbaum's by 1\fA~K MI~DEL . The U:nion College cross country team made it four in a row Tuesday by shptting out Norwich, 15-50, and nipping a ~ery strong Middlebury squad, 25~33, in a double dual meet on Mtddlebury's 5.0 mile home course. The Garnet, now 4-1 on the year, teamed. up to beat ail individually tough Middlebury combination led by Joe McNulty and Gary Johnson, the former national ski competitor. The Middlebury duo took one-two, but Union powered its way to victory by snatching up the next five plaa:s .. Freshman J~hn Kearney, timed in 26:29, led the Dutchmen this ttme out, tradmg second place back to senior Bryant Moeckel, timed at 26:52. Tri-captain Moeckel can remain ~PPY !rm.ling. th~ ~ough ~ro~h runner fot the rest of the year~ after his satlsfymg mdtvtdual wm m the \pressure'' R.P.I. meet, but no one is counting the \Moegler\ out as the Garnet's top man. Tim McCabe, 27:08, the improving Bob Nesbitt, 27:25, and frosh Jim Johnson, 27:26 took places five through seven to complete the Union drive to the tape. The ever-improving squad faced its stiffest challenge of the year today, as the undefeated Continentals from Hamilton traveled to Schenectady in what should be a \tuniing point\ battle f~r the Garnet. Union is now coachless, with Chris Gentile in the hospxtal. 0 \Outfitters to Men andY oung Men\ 447-451 STATE STi SCHEN.ECTADY DALE JEWELERS(} The .More You Know About Diamonds The Better We Can Serve You .. 0 163 JAY ST. Q. .Juif Off Stat~ St. 372-0540 Tuei. & Thurs. 'til 9 Ftt>e Parklnr ln. Rrar .:Vc Sa1 and. ChaJ recel• The generall finest cl open th Schene~ Series perf orr Memor campus The violinis1 Carlyss violist : selectio Mozart Sinct years ~ has pE world. and p1 penetra of the' of the News 19~1. t Amen( tourR In quarte1 prestig New) resider: Libta Washi1 The Quart~ Ameri' gives 1 Stradi' to the The perf or Quart Webei Quart~ Debu~ Tiel AI tees ~te~ previ inter .A;c:ac Com En vi Elec1 Stud Al ties com bavi witb

r w a -3 tg lp ty n, p. ry re g n g y e t 1 f ', • Founded at Union ColleiJe· 1877 ::Vol. 10:1\ No.'lo :scHENECTADY, NEW YORK OCTOBER 26, 1971 PRtCE TWENTY CENTS ·Questionnaire On · Drugs Needs Senate Approval Satmday night, the Social CC)ninUttee .presented 8rewer and. Shipley~· an ev~niilg of fo~ musi¢; in Memorial Chapel. Tbe concert wbjeh.drew over 500 people was well received and review may be found on page 3 of Concordiensis. . . famed Quartet In Chamber Concert . by PATTY SIPE In interviews With. Dean Malloy, Oave Robbins, Bo6 Ditter, Prof. Berthhold, and Mrs. Walbek this week, the purposes and achievements of the Ad Hoc ·Drug Committee were explored. The Committee was formed last ,year as a result of concern expressed by certain members of the Board of Trustees at the October Board meeting. the Trustees asked President Martin tp investigate the problem. Dean Malloy set· up . the Ad Hoc Committee, which was made up of faculty and .students interested in investigating the problem and facilities available for dealing with it. It was decided in one of the first meetings that a questionnaire would he helpful in determining students' attitudes toWards the drug problem and facilities necessary to cope with The Juilliard String Quartet, performance will be available at it. All members of the Committee generally considered America's. the door. Admission is $3 for who were interviewed finest chamber music group, will adults, $1 for students. . emphasized that the aims of the open the 1971-72 Union College- Season tickets for the entire Committee would not be .served Schenectady Museum Concert six-concert series are available by by questions relating to actual Series with an 8:30 p.m. contacting the Schenectady drug usage; therefore, th(:re are performance Thursd~y in _Museu~ •. NPtt Te.rrace :Heights, no questions relating specifically Memorial Chapel on the l.::Jnion Schenectady •. N.Y • .1230~. _ tousage. :!S. i~:!'~..!·:~:'~1 News Analysis:· Politics, Carlyss, cellist Claus Adam and p· · • • violist Samuel· Rhodes, will play .. ·rt•m·. a· .f'l·e. s· a.·.n. d A .. m· ·.· .ne·st. y selections of Schubert, Webern, Mozart and Debussy. Since it was first organized 25 by AL REISCH of ours.\ With these Words years ago, the Julliard Quartet Amnesty - A petition is Richard Nixon placed Lewis has performed throughout the presently circulating on Capitol Powell and William Rehnquist worlo. \Magnificent hannony Hill. This, in itself, is pot an before the Senate as his nominees and purity of sound and deep uncommon occurence. It is, for the t~o positions on the high penetration into the conceptions however, an uncommon petition. court that he must fill. of the composers\ was the report Its purpose is to make Senators Investigations into these two men of the music critic of the Soviet and Representatives aware of a are presently taking place. As of News Agency \Tass\ when, in growing movement in the nation this time Senator Birch Bayh has 1961, the group became the first to achieve anmesty for, in the announced that he plans to make American stri'ng quartet ever to words of th~ petition, \those who a \careful investigation\ of the tour Russia. refus_ed to fight a war that we as two men himself. In addition to being the a nation have come to detest.\ It is far too early to predict quartet in residence at the The amnesty being sought is for what the outcome of this or any prestigious Julliard School in those Americans who have fled o•her investigation will be. As of New Yo.rk, the group is also the the country to avoid the draft, now, however, the only national resident string quartet at the deserted the armed forces or been • figure to publicly speak out on Library of Congress . in imprisoned for refusing to be the matter has been John Washington. drafted during the Vietnam War Lindsay, Mayor of New York. It The latter makes the Juilliard period. , can be stated, however, that the Quartet the officialtfrrst family of W:~~ingt~tt ''There' is · •· two men will not he shoe-ins. American Chamber ~Mt~sic and probably no ll!ore important The Senate has shown gives them the privilege of using legacy that a President of the dramatically with the 'Carswell, Stradivarius instruments willed United States can leave in these Haynsworth. and Fortas cases to the American people in 19 36 . times than .his appointees to the . that as a body it will not hesitate The program for the Thursday Supreme Court .• It is my firm to reject a man who is not felt to p~;rformance includes Schubert's conviction tonight that Lewis posess adequate qualifications Quartettsatz in c Minor Powell... and William for the task of sitting on the Webem~s String Trio; Mozart'~' ~ehnquist. •. will dediCilte . t~eir Supreme Court. Quartet in p Major and lives to the .great goal of butldmg Debussy's Quartet. in G Minor. ~esP.ect for law and, order and Tickets for the Juilliard JUSttce throughout this great land Apply .. 'N·ow For· Comm~ittees Applications for the following' College and Student commit- tees are now available in the Student Activities Office. All ~te~sted students must. fill out applia.tions (even if you have JJreVIously. submitted your· name or otherwise indicated · your mterest.) Academic OpportUJlity .•..•. ~ •.••••.•.•.. 6 undergraduates c;omputet Sdence •... ~·•. * ~~ ... : .••• _ •-i .... , • , •. , • 4 11 Enwoament ................. ;., ..•..••.•.. 4 ,. Elections ••••.••.•••.•••.••••••••• \'· .••.••. s \ Student Ufe •.••.•• •··-·····• ..••. ~ ............ 5 \ ~ All completed applications are du.e. in the Student Activi- ties O«'ace .no later than F.riday Ckt• 29 at 4:90 . P.M. A list of co~ttce. f~~o• it also available in the· SAO. Any .student ~vma qUestio~ ~houtd ~U .David Robbi~ at ·l7il.o804·or speak With Mrs. M~ m the.SAO. Politics The list of Democratic Presidential hopefuls was shortened just a bit this week with an announcement by Sirch Bayh stating that he would not run for the presidency due to personal reasons. Bayh's wife just underwent an operation for the removal of some cancerous tissue and he decided that he would spend his time with his wife rather than campaigning. He still will remain active in the primaries, however, and he is still in the running for the Vice ·Presidential nomination. New · York's · _roving Mayor John Lindsay has been actively campaigning for Charles Evers 1 candidate for Governor of Continued on.Page 2 ' All stressed that the · by the Committee, and any questionnaire is not an attempt further action will be dependent to identify individual drug users; upon the results. The Committee its primary purpose is to will write a report which may be determine student opinion about put on file in the Library for the need for facilities relating to general consultation, or may be drug problems, and if that need kept in the Office of the Dean of is present, the type of facilities Students. If the questionnaire necessary. The questions on the shows that students feel no questionnai~e deal with a additional facilities or services definition of a \drug problem\ are necessary, no further action student opinions a·baut its causes. will be taken. If it is evident that and suitable methods of dealing students feel the need for with it.. additional services, the action A copy of the questionnaire taken will depend upon the type will be given to each Student ofservice felt to be necessary. Senator at tonight's Student As an example, one possibility Senate meeting. The Senators raised by the questionnaire is a will then read it and decide Comp Ed. course dealing with whether to support it or not. drug related problems. If the Those members of the responses show that this is felt to Committee questioned about the be desirable by the students, the Student Senate's role in the Drug Committee will go to the project were confident that the Curricular Affairs Committee for Senate will be willing to further action. Other alternatives participate. Assuming Senate will be considered in a similar approval, the questionnaires will manner. be distributed by the Student It was also pointed out be Sentors in two weeks. The members of the. Committee that completed que~tionnaires will money necessary for any then be returned by the Senators programs would be allotted from to the Dean of Students' Office the budget of the Office of the or the Student Activities Office, Dean of Students. Since the where the responses will be budget must be approved by the recorded on · Computer Cards. · Board of Trustees, major The original questionnaires will additions to the present facilities be destroyed. Computer analysis and services would require of the data will then be obtained approval by the Board of Trustees. La·ck Of Attendance Could Put Film Series In Danger by BARB DEWEY successively depict the \flavor of The Film Series program at the streets\. Union has been in existence at There are no films scheduled last count (which is 'to say at fot the winter term. Those films least} 12 years. Professor Gado, · originally scheduled for public who was in charge of it for presentation in connection with several past years, remembers its the Film Series will be shown, ..first purpose\ which was instead, as part of Professor \entertainment\. With the advent Gado's Comp. Ed. course, \The of the ~ilm Haps, the pressure tQ...._ Modern. !empe~\ and, due to a entertam was lessened and the late decision, wtll.be financed by Series sought to appeal to \all the lab fees collected for that s.ectors of the college course. Anyone interested in community\ while, at the same viewing those films may be able time, presenting films that were to do so (anyone not signed up \works of art\. for the class, that is) by payment This year, Professor Peck of of the lab fee. Any person the English Department runs · the series. He has selected films that are basically adapted to an informal plan representing · periods .of great historical, political and social import. Included are several documentaries and a number of films that, he feels, \partake of the nature of documentaries.\ The films previously shown (Sept. 24 - Oct. 22) have been early American flicks - two by the ingenious D. W. Griffith, \Tol'ahle David,\ by H. King and several comedies. The remainder of the Fall term's showings are .of German origin. They include films· by Pabs't, Lartg, Reifenstahl and M urnau and reflect the breakdown of German society in the period from World War I to World War ll. Arthur Knight mentions Pabst and Murnau in his hook; The LiveUest Art, saying that they \U$ed their cameras in ways never before attempted or even dramed o.,. to. teflec\ the plight of the people. Peck believes they Continued on Page 7 Psychologist .speaks Here Developmental psychologist Urie Bronfenbrenner. who has been instrumental in the development of the Head Start program, will lecture at Union College, Wed.; Oct. 27. The Russian born Cornell University professor will speak on \Making Human Beings Human.\ The talk is set for 8 p.m. in the auditorium of the Social Sciences Building. Bronfenbrenner is most known for his practical applications of social and psychological theories, such as in his work with Head Start. His most recent hook is \Two Worlds of Child~ood,\ a comparison of child rearing irt the . United S.tates and the Soviet Union. His talk is open free to the pubUc.

Page 2 CONCORDIENSIS, Olnnrnr Managing Editor Doug Wong Editor-in-Chief[ Louis S. Snitkoff News Editor Howard Stone . Sports Editor Asst. Managing Editor George S. Baii Gail w. Goodman Photogra~hy Edi~Frs Jody Saslow Charles Long Features Editor Matthew Swartz ....... Business Manager Joseph P. Achenbaum National Advt. Manager Mark Shulman To the Editor: It is rather obvious that Mr. Contriltlltlnc Edihlrsl William 1-i\olieran Mike Meserole Assoc;. Photography Editor Subscriptions Manager Dave Conrey' Michael Hurley Sperry (\The Death of Involvement\) has no idea why he is at Union CoHege and is perhaps abusing bis wonderful opportunity. I might point out that this fine school, although over-rated and isolated, produces fantastic pencil-pushing junior executives, Mr. Sperry, and if you don't want to .participate, get out. We are all here to cut each other's throats and to get into the best medical and law schools, for that is where the real money comes from, and there is no use for freaks like you who want to· change things. Pretty soon I'll have mY Porsche, a $60,000 split- level in the suburbs, and I'll. be wearing those clothes you see advertisec:l in the ·New York Times Magazine. These are the things I really· are the reason there is presently want in life, and that is why I no student union. I feel that the came to Union. But don't get me elimination of fraternities in wrong, Mr. Sperry, I dig being . favor of a stude~t· union would cool .. I soak my dungarees in drastically reduce the bleach and sew on patches to diversification of activities from prevent holes, and then i s~rap which the· student body could them l.l.P With a $20;00 belt from choose on a given night. There Bloomingdale's - Yoll know, the are only so many activities l)ne real hard~core freak look. Then I central social committee could co- casually throw on a cool hat and ordinate at one time, wherea$ the my sta~prest WQrk .shirt and riot, soqial chaiwen in the fourteen cause I'm a real liberal. I'm really different fraternities can offer a into love and peace, man, and wide range of choices according Nixon, Viet Nam, the draft, and to the natw.e of the fraternity. Kent State are all bullU11et!l. But I h~v~ .not yet attended a this . is all my pseudo-liberalism, fraternity ftUlction that was not whi~;h is so import~nt' ·to my open ,to everyo}le, so i cannot see image. l can easily fall hack on . ·the . justification behind the this to :cover· up any of my feeling that.' they are secte1 failures. You know, if I can't societies and serv~ no function to afford that Porscbe that rve the· student bc;;dy as a whole. If yvanted ever since r was sixteen, I the · indep~npe~ts do not want to JUSt say that . cars are simply take .advantage of the . fraternity ma,te.rialistic bullsbit, and sponsored· 0 events, they still everyone still thinks I'm h~ppy~ should acknowledge the fact that STAFF: Mark Unman, Jim Smith, Bruce Turecamo, Bob Johnson, Jim Rostenberg, Chris MandeviUe, . Frank DeLuda, Les Goldman, Rosemary Rice, Don Kaplan, Rita Morandi, Barbara McDonald, Patty Sipe, Richard Kern, Gary (Leapin') Leiderman, Marty Berman, Maik Mindel. AI Reisch, Jerry Macher, Joe Monkofski. _ Published Tuesdays and Fridays dunng the school year by the student body of Union College, Schenectady, N.Y., National Advertising Representative, National Educational Advertising Serviq:, Inc., College Publishers Representative, 360 Lexington Ave., N.Y.C. Editorial office, Old Gym, Union College. Publication Office, The World Publications, 771 State Street, Schenectady, N.Y. 12307, 346-2356. Entered in the Schenectady post office as Second Class Mail Matter. Subscription 20 cents a copy. ~8 a year delivered anywhere in the United States. Defying Death Like fuel In Union's Tour .de Farce So you see, Mr. Sperry., the fraternities ,can and do · benefit reason involvement has died at the student body. Union College is because it was A fraternity my be a· clique, as much :a fad here as was the but then also, is any group of hoola .. hoop. You are right - independents who keep constant sure I'm a }lypocrite, but why or close company. The sho'Qldn't I be? Sure there're all elimination of fraternities would kinds. of murder, stealing, not serve to de-fragment the cheatmg, and hatred around. But students of this college or any why should I care? I don't have college but merely remove the to worr~.I co~e from a well-to- label given to a bunch of. gQ:ys do family. I II graduate from with very close personal ties who college and make lots of money. choose to live in the same I'll live as well as my parents live, residence. by MIKE MESEROLE ready. It was time. When Eve! Knievel is one of Walking my trusty Schwinn 10- the Chapel it's 5, and closing fast'. Just before the intersection I catch him - the crowd is going to get a thrill either way; either I pass him or we collide in one of the most spectacular bicycle crack-ups of all time. At the intersection I'm bu.rning adrenalin and I pass him. Listen to those Instamatics! The crowd is dazzled, for three or four seconds they are mine. I'm scaling the fountains at Caesar's Palace. your heroes, sometimes you find speed to the starting line, the. yourself pulling some pretty sprinkling rain blurring the idiotic stunts. Sunday afternoon vision through my glasses, I I raced in the second annual noticed the crowd was Tour de Union. gathering. Fans; they are what Teamed up with crack keep me and Evel coming back. Sophomore cyclists Sev Bonnie. We'll gladly break our necks Tom Hudak and Rick Judd, I anyday, to get their ~,tdoration. was the number two man on the The crowds come to these cycle Psi Upsilon Racing Team, Inc., races for the same reason they and like most of the other 90 or gather for the guy standing on so contestants in the bike relay, I the window l~ge twelve stories nea~ly got myself killed. up. They wa·nt him to jump, they Evel would have been proud of want to see him splatter on the me. _ pavement, they want to be there Two weeks before, Hudak and when it happens. 1 had gone downtown to the Crowd con.ditions . were. f>roctorjs theater and seen the excellent: the pavement course semi-documentary ''Eve! was stippery with chilled rain, the Knievel,\ starring Geo·rge turns impossibly :tight, and most Hamilton as the Big E. Here is a of the bike riders were wearing guy who defies death for a IiviQg, shorts. Crashes and bloodletting doing things like jumping the were assured, but as an extra fountains at Caesar's Palace in measure of protection against no Las Vegas on a motorcycle and . pile-ups, the directors of the race laughing off a bad landing that ,had included a tricycle and a breaks every bone in his body, bicycle-built-for-two to Here is a guy whose prime goal absolutely guarantee. an obstacle- in life is to ride a rocket- Iadde? course. \Oh· boy,.'' I propelled Harl·ey.-Davidson thought as I rubbed a little dirt across the Grand Canyon. Here ori my right shoe sole, a la Evel, is a guy who is absolutely nuts. and waited to take off. \I. can just But he is so c;ool! Being crazy hear my head crunching into the can't be all bad. When the movie curb.\ ended, I was psyched. T-hen. all of a sudden, I'm off, Looking around, there weren't flying toward the Nott Memorial any fountains for me to jump or and the nightma,rish Ratheskeller canyons to cross in Schenectady. Ttir:n. Wait, there's a dog on the But there was that bicycle race, course right in front of me. Now sweetened by rumors that 25 four- there's a spectator .dragging the man teams would be entered. dog off the track. I can't stop, I One hundred people on a narrow wouldn't .if I could. Ka-blam! I ribbon of a course that could hit the spectator square in the barely contain two-way traffic - can, pitch myself over the handle man, that wasn't death:-defying. bars, and the bike runs the dog that was .suicide. Perfect. over. The dog yelps, the I hadn't cracked up, but shucks, you can't always have your cake and eat it too. I still had two laps to go, but my legs wer.e nearly burned out and my adrenalin sqpply was exhausted. The other guy caught me on the sidewalk stretch of the fourth lap and was ahead. on the ftfth until he hit a slick spot on the hairpin North ·College Turn underneath the Cinzano sign and wiped out. As I passed hitn I apologized. for not keeping up and joining him in the crash. He said he understo.od, ,and passed out. So, 'I came down the backstretch with the lead intact and. handed the baton to Hudak who took off on the third leg. H ude kept the lead with some crowd pleasing cycle heroics as did Judd, on the anchor leg, and our team finished the race in front - meaning that . nobody passed any of us and stayed in front for long, thanks to some timely and stupendous wipe outs. Did he win? Are you kidding? if not better .. So why should I seriously concern myself with the rest of the world? Jody Saslow '72 ... ... ... * To the Editor; After having read various views regarding the fraternity issue, I thought you might like to hear the opinion of a Union co- ed. I must admit that_ before coming to Union, I was ·quite down on ·the whole idea of fraternities because I felt that they had absolutely no place e:m a college ,campus today. Now that I ha'Ve· become acquainted with independents as well as fraternity brothers, I can see that each lifestyle ·has its own ad-vantages. However, I .cannot understand the hostile intolerance that has been expressed by a few. independents toward the whole fraternity system in recent· axticles in the Concordy. As stated in an articJe by Mark Johnson, fraternity men would most probably Welcome a Student Union. On the other side of the issue, George Bain feels that fraternities should be banned altogether because they I also must point out that the brotherhood I have seen in various fraternities is quite unlike any other . that exists between individuals in a group of independents who are friends. Perhaps some independents may have developeq an extremely close relationship · with a few others, but this would just be the clo.se equivalent· of a fraternity, minus· the name \fraternity\ on a smaller scale. It is quite obvious that fraternitY life is not the answer for everyone, but those who do not believe in it have no right to feel they can discard it. That would be like abolishing the entire institution of marriage simply because it does not suit your pruposes. Since most of the brothers seem willing to sup.port the drive for a student union, then why can't the independents concede .. the need . f.or fraternities by a good number of .the students at Union? I don't· see why the two groups can't work together as one in hopes of achieving a .common goal. Kathy Hughes Class of 1975 Is The ·Film Series . . The night before the race I spectator greans, and the crowd became Evel Knievei. At . one gasps. My right arm is hurt, but o'clock in the morning I was out there's no time far pain. I get walking_ the track, puffing on a , back .on my Schwinn. Oh Evel, if cigar and planning my strategy; you could only.see me now. where to begin my turns, where Our number o.ne man,. Bonnit!, to conserve my strength and h~d the lead when he relayed . to where to let out the throttle. me - I couldn't lose it. Five Come Sunday noon I was ready, laps. Come on legs. After three. except for one thing. There was laps I look over my shoulder at something missing: the ultimate the · Soccer Field Turri. and element that would guarantee a someone is gaining on me. At th!! thrilled gallery of spectato·rs. The football field he passes me. Who element of highest risk. The is this guy? Turning onto South element of rain. Rain, if it would Lane he's got me by 25 yards. I only rain I'd be killed for sure. shift into high gear. Passing The race had 1 0-speeds, 3-speeds, two-man bikes and three- wheelers all competing against each other. Some relay legs did :four laps while others had to do five. The race judges didn't know what the hell was going on and there wasn't even a final tally sheet at the conclusion of the race. As it turned out, we came in tenth. Tenth? Tenth. S:oon To Be/·Extln·ct? Cqntlnued from Page ·l tilled one .row . . . and three of the seven viewers were interested should contact involved with projection. Professor Gado. Professor ;Peck, admittedly, .has Films to be shown during the chosen films \without regard for At twelve forty-five Sunday Lamont House I can see the afternoon it was raining. crowd down the ~traight-away at I dressed t.lowly; meticulously; the treacherous Ratheskeller tugging on freshly-laundered intersection; this is the moment sweatpants, pulling ·up my Evel afld I were born for, I've got American flag colored stockings, to pass that dude right in front of easing the Psi U team racing all those peo_ple. Got to. Keeping jersey down over my light blue in mind that the faster I go the undershirt, lacing up my Adidas better my chan<~es for wiping-out, sneaks, and securing my I turn the.burners up £tlll blast. Washington Senators · •cap on Hauling past Psi U, :Ptn within backwards. My image in · the : -rs yards of tlie leader.· At the bathroom mirror said that I was 1 Humanities Building it's lO, At \ Needless to say, the Tour de Union was a tour de farce and in the future should be run in heats; 10-speeds vs. 10-speed~, threes vs. threes, and so on. Anyway, it's over. The crowd got its thrills and spills, a few first rate pile- ups, and a little blood. And I walked away knowing that, even though I wasn't in the hospital, for a few seconds that crowd was all mine. Just like Evel Knievel. STUDENTS. GOIN~ TO ISRAEL I Ther.e wiiJ be a11 ·important meeting of all students ·going I .to Israel this winter on Wednesday . aftetD\oon 'ftt 4 I p. :~· ·in .. ·ss. 113, Prof. Berk ., . ·waH dascus·s travel arrangements. - 1 Spring term deal with Pre- their immediate popular appeal.\ Revolutionary (Kurasawa's They are, essentially,. films which \Lower Depths\) - World War II \1. Aren't shown often, 2. Russia, the Depression in Deserve to be shown, and 3. America, and the Spanish War Possess a. high degree of artistic (which Professor Peck considers merit.\ a \European Cataclysm\). With Professor Gado, while the appearance ·Of Lorelltz' film realizing the benefit . of showing \The Plow that Broke the filtns even for very small Plains\ the American audiences, also realizes that past documentary \may be 11aid to attendance is not. encouraging to have come of age.\ (Knight, The · thl\! future of the Film Series. He Liveliest Art) . has remarked thai ·th~ •,P.rogram Professors Gado and Peck will be in need · ·of ·\tough have both expressed defending\ . wheri ~ts · budget disappointment; at · th·e comes up for fufure. app:iioval. attendance of \Film ·Series The value of the Film , Setie!l presentations. They would_ like to • cannot be denied .... but,; as :is the remind students tb.at the. films are · Cas'e with all that .is iinpottant also shown Friday. afterno·ons ·.at and, at the same time in need of · 2:30, one recent Friday financial support,· it's existence afternoon, the audience nearly may he in danger. '' ,. ') ''I\ • ca )11< pc St ol' ca af th Ge all all ge th f;O D' we vy T1 in P<: Y< ar' p~ to to tb na ar' en as to· as Tl to1 ar1 na flc qu po pl; m; po po inc Br ex, ha m~ im to of sta of to1 to ell: jut bel sue ou pel lef of ace ho th~ of ~ (l

(me co- the a a not see the to that of the any the the in of ds. a to he .. a at a • t. ' . CONCORDIENSIS, October 26, 1971 Page3 Complicated Card Game; Brewer and Lavin Discus~es Bridge Shipley Harmonious by BOB LAVIN · mcludmg the b1ddmg, opemng . . by DAVE CONREY The failure to have a · D-string The most complicated game of, lead and the play of the hand. Spade and one Hea~t; thus West B d·Sh' 1 ld h for one of their guitars at the . . . If a man opens the biddin · had five of each smt, because I· . rewer an . 1p ey cou ave . . ·. cards.•s Bndge. . . . ·.. ·. . . . g, have the rest of the Hearts and done their Union audience \One begmmng ?f t~e concert would Thts game may be unknown to you know he has 13 pomts. If he . . K' d F \ d b . · h not have Impaired Brewer and . . . . . . . leads a King he should have the Spades. West also has at least m avor an. egun Wit Sh' 1 , . . . Th many, but t?day It IS the most A . . . ' If h 'd . two Diamonds because he played another song. Their meager . tp ey s guitar playmg. ey popularpastitn¢ in the u_ nited cclle or __ 9ueehn. hi e .,oesno_t bo·th.tl'mes Hehas·onlyt·3·cards beginning with this folk classic showed an utte_r lack _of . · · . · · t :10 ow smt t en · s partner must · · ' · ~ · . . . . hi · d · 1 · d Sltdatels.d~ome f!lp~yngenvlSlon dollr hold the r~st of the cards in the so he can have, at most, one was. a disn:a~ . mtroductiOn of tsho~ sti~at te gulitar P .. aymgd atnh o . a 1esgoss11 '· aroun a . . · . . . . Club He might n t have any ·_thea _abthties and a eir gm ars ony perwrme e card table every Tue.sday :U·~ Th?s t~e go:.l of evet7 but he only has oneocard that w~ • misrepresentation of the exciting function of accompanying their afterno~n, on he~ring men~io~ of h:S !~epc~~s!s~~re lf:o:e~i: 1~ don't know about .. So I lead a concert ,to come. . voices. the g_ arne. Others may think of h. d .. . .h. 'd· P Club to the Ace and he follows Brewer and . Shtp_ley's_ Compared to the G W h . gt B kl -an totestoutt-1s1 ea. · · · · · . ·n t m·e tat' n f Mt' ha 1 . eorge . as .. m on, roo . yn, . . . Oh happy day! He has only harmorues were professional m I s ru . n Io o c e and Scotia and onl¥ re~ember . ~orth Hearts and Spades left so 1 can quality and expertl? do~e. The Cooney, .Peter, Paul and Mary all the tolls they. paid try1ng. to S-AQ73 confidently lead a Club from balance they kept m thetr two- and even soii_Je local t~lent, ~et to the oth~r Side, B1;1t, ~n ~f H-Q62 .. dummy and insert the l'O of part harmony can only be Brewer and ~hipley are strll at these a~e Ims:ake~ . m their g-~~5 -Clubs when East plays low marveled at. The quality of their t~e n;;e-mih'~~agej :~tho~gh ~onc7pt10nB 'do · ~· e g~ml e. -W because we know West has none singing, plus the fact that their t .ek· 1 ·h ~x 1 It 1 e~ 7 ~t Duplicate . 1'1 ge. 1S a VlO ent Jl09~~ ~because We counted. harmony was arranged to express pl~ mg, t. et~. utter ac o. travis w~dd ~ade_ u~ of 1 angry ~?~le 9 8753 Simpie is the game of Bridge, eertain parts of their songs more (fl1~er-pJckmfg) sh~wed . a vymg 10r natlon~ rec9gl)ltl.oiJ.. · . .isn't it? dee.ply, added richly to their neg tgence o an. Importa~t '!hey are all battlip~ e~~h otht:r . 93 performance. method of mood,settmg, a~d this man effott to better tht.;Ir master 5 was made up for only partially by point totals. M~~~t' poifit what? East '.. A·r·b._-0· ·r·I·S .. ·.t· s. ·c· ·0. :nf·e· .. r ·o·n.· their vocal abilities. Yes. master ,point· totals. These 8 Their attempt at the traditional are little pieces ofpaper given for 10 folk \singalong\' was well p~rfor:mances. at duplicate QJ0642 Unl·on Tre.e o· 1 seases received -at least the applause tournaments.. There are local J97643 indicated this, but few people tournaments held evecy night of South appeared to be in the singalong the week in every city of the K54 An. end to the planting of elms Among the lesser shade trees mood. Either the audience was nation, Sectional tournaments .AKJ4 and ·their repla· cern. ent by a d . too stoned to remember the · AK recommende are the tub p tree, are · larger lo~l tournaments variety of more. durab. le spec 1 ·es . words, or Brewer and Shipley · KQ108 ashes, sweet gum, pmes and the . encompassing several cities, such · · are- the major recommendations Douglas fir. Smaller trees, more should have chosen their as the Capital District. Regional South dea41 and counts his from a recent conference on able to withstand the singalong songs better. tournaments cover regions, such points; 4 for an Ace, 3 for a. shade trees held here. . Although I may sound critical, . transpla:ntmg shock, were as the New England States. Kmg, 2 for a Queen, and 1 for a Diversification in planting is suggested by the group. The the audience seemed to have There are . three national pJa~k. He quickly sums. UJ? 23 seen as a necessary step to preferred size for planting is 10 _ ~njoyed the. perfo.rmance tournaments held annually. They .pomts, and announces his btd of counter the heavy toll of shade 12 feet taU with a two inch Immensely, whtch was clearly are in major cities all over the 2 No Trump {Nn to describe his trees in the area taken by the d' Th indicated by the stomping and nation. Fifty thousand people hand. The next man in the West D. utch El_m disease. . tameter. ese young trees are pounding which encouraged the more readily adaptable to new flock to these tournaltlents in seat passes, and North adds his The Elm has traditionally been . performance of two encores. . surroundings and are also less . quest of those preciou!l master pomts up and gets 13. This is a favorite shade tree loca. ny· and . I am confident that If Brewer d . expens1ve. points. The goal of all bridge a ded to his partner's hand, has flou .. rished in the reaion. But and Shipley could ever find h . . ~ The College hopes to. begin its players is to become a life w 1ch had, accordtl'lg to his bid, on the Um_· on campus alone, 277 1 . . ~ Schenectady, New York, again, · 22 24 · rei) antmg program thts tall. master, or to gain 250 black · · pomts. Thus his team has a trees have been lost to disease in they would return to a grateful 1 f 35 3 . Participating in the campus . points, 25 red points, and 25 gold tota o. - 7 pomts, out of a the past 20 years. Wet spring conference were local arborist reception by this critic and the points. Achl~ving this places the , possible 40, He bids 7 NT which' seasons in recent years have F . W L N y k Union College population. · · ranc1s . · arrnore, ew or individual at the top <>f the means ,his partner: must make made the problem acute. More · G -= \I B 'd ld. H. . d d t . k 'th t t state lan,dscape architect eorge Concordiensis needs one I n ge wor . · e. IS regar · e as every nc • WI ou any rump elm trees were lost in the pa.st Roberts, Charles Zieba of the · exceptional by his peers who suit. North places his hand down year th. an in any othe.rye_ ar in the U . ff d F d . k L person interested in helping d af mon sta an re enc ape, · f I have not yet gained the life on ummy, .ter West makes his past quarter centur.y, acco. ·rding 'd d d' f h prepare tssues o the 1 d f h S · presi ent an · n·ector o t e · · · ~ i]' master status. As the name ea o t e pade Jack. South t\\ loca.l arborists. newspaper •or ma mg. It . If v George Landis Arboretum. Prof. • b h I implies, it takes alrrtost··a lifetime c~unts to himse : 3 sure Spade Since there is no sure way of C. William Huntley, chairman of requues a out one our per to become a life mast~r. Only 2% tncks, 4 sure Heart tricks, 2 sure preventing Dutch Eltit disease week. Anyone interested 1 f II b 'd l . h' o· d t . k. d 3 Cl b the campus' development contact Mike Hurley at Sigma o . a n ge payers gam t IS Iamon nc s, an sure · · u 'and no proven metho(l of saving committee, coordinated the status. The pot of gold at the end tricks, totalling 12 sure tricks, a tree once it has been infected, rrm~e:;et~in~g~·-----------=· :C:h:i,.:3:4:6-:9:5:82:·====-=~J of the rainbow awaits all but I need 13 tricks to fulfill my expert&. believe more elms will be 1 tournament players and makes 't'he bid. lost in the future. Of 581 Elms on I tournament scene very Well, I can make an extra the Union campus in 1952, only L U 1 Q 1 ' 5 challenging and brutal. It is like a Spade if my three big spades 199 remain. Since Dutch Elm · jungle where everyone is trying to . extract all the other Spades, and and other ·tree diseases art< become a life master. Only a few tny last Spade i~ left as the boss. peculiar to one species, the succeed. Or, I can hope the Queen of experts suggest that replanting The object of Bridge is to find Diamonds is only with one Qther programs stress variety. To out who has What cards without card or I can make a good trick replace the elms, several large peeking·. If you know that your with the Club ten. So I win the shade tree species can be planted, left-hand opponent has the King Spade and cash another high according to the soil conditions. of Hearts, you can play Spade but East shows void. The group at Union suggests for accordingly. Well one may ask T}len, I play my four big Hearts this area, a combination of red, how you are able to locate cards . out and East ony has one card scarlet and pin oaks, sugar and the opponents have. The manner. also. Now, I play the Ace and red maples, the linden, the of discovery takes m~ny forms, King of Diamonds. London plain and the honey ~~~~~~~~ Records! 3 Track Tapes! Cassettes! Folk; Blues -Rock · 'Jazz. Classi.:s '~· · . '· Sound :Effects Mood· ALL AT STUDENT. DISCOUNTS (unless already discounted) at APE:X What do I know? East had one locust. The Coffeehouse Presents: The Best for The Least!!!!!!! for the rest of fall term: Od. 29 ........ Bonnie Raitt and Pat Webb..,.. Sl.SO· Nov. 5 ......... Chris Daly and Brian Lehrer, Chad Luxenberg, Dan Silver· and Mike MOler Nov. 6 ........ Jim Dawson (two shows, 7 & 10:30 - ·presented by the Social Committee) N~v. 19 · ........ David Quincy Bernstein'- 11 p.m. (after Ondine) · Dec. 3 ........ FINA,LS FREEBIE AD shows, unless otherwise noted, are in Old Chapel at 8:30, for SOc admission. Coffe·e, donuts, ·chaos, and good times, compliments or the house. fight inflation! Come h the Coffeehous~! (The best things in life are damned inexpensive.) · ~ ;~; u~;;;~~r Restaurant ! ~ ~ .. ?!!Cc!!~ · ~: . 535 Non Street . ! \'\ 377all12 ~ § ~ = ·~ ~~eq,~~l..!?>~~~~~0 ...... ?-><.t?'o~ . .. RESTAURANT SPECIALIZING IN Italian • American Food 1125 BARRETT ST. Schenectady Dl 6-.9744 Enjoy Sizzling Steaks and Chops Visit Our Cocktail Bar . Special Introductory · ~ · ~ sale M!. YE... »s 20% OFF .. ~ tO ACQUAINT YO:U WITH OUR NEW TEENMAN SHOP (SIZES 36 to 42) FAMOUS NATIONAL BRANDS • SPORTCOATS • SLACKS • •RAINCOATS • OUTERWEAR• VISIT OlJR \DEBS DEN\ FOR UNION GIRLS 313 STATE ST., AT ERIE BLVD. Open Thursday~'ti19 p.m • FOR LIQUOR' & WINE . . Try JAKE LIPSTEI,N'S 464 State Street FR 4-1888 FRIDAY CONCERT 8P.M. NOV. 5 Proctors ~heater In Troy ARlO GUTHRIE Tickets $5. All Seats Reserved Ti<:kets: At Van Curler's Record 1 s in Albany Mail Reservations: Ted Bayly, 74 Eagle St., Troy

Page 4 CONCORDIENSJS, October 26, 1971 ·Editor's Note: The following is printed, courtesy of the Rensselaer Polytechnic. The author is a professor of Economics at R. P. I. By DR.ROMESH DIWAN Associate Professor of Economics It was in 1947 that the British Rule in India came to an end, at last. The dellverar1ce was not painless. In the }rocess, the then India was partitioned into two countries; the present India and Pakistan. Pakistan was formed by areas whose majority population was Muslim. The Muslim majority in these areas was between 51-60 per cent. The formation of Pakistan involved one of the largest population transfers in the world, and in the end Pakistan was composed of two areas; East and West. Both these areas are physically separated by 1,000 miles of Indian territory. As a result of population transfers, West has 90 per cent Muslim population and East 75 per cent. India still has more Muslims than in any of the two parts of Pakistan. It is East Pakistan which is now called Bangia Desh. Bangia Desh is largely surrounded by India and prior to partition it formed the eastern part of the state of Bengal. It shares with India a border of as many as 1.300 miles. Its land mass is basically a delta formed by two large rivers, Ganges and_ Brahmaputra. It is well en- dowed with rains which fall in the range of by the manipulation of two policies; (i} overvaluation and (ii) import license. Paki~ did not have any entrep:eneurial class in 1947. The government through its avu Service and on the advice of the Harvard Advisory Service literally createg the industrial class. To do so, it needed foreign exchange, which came from jute production in the East. Jute production is not a f;!apitalized agrieultu~e. Instead the production is carried on by· hundreds and thousands of peasants. fn view of the overvaluation the farmers received a smaller amount of returns. The government acquired the foreign ex .. change. This foreign exchange was given to a very select group of West Pakistani people via import licenses to start in• dustries. In the name of the infant industry the markets for these goods were protected. As a result the fanner and wage earners had to pay higher prices. Without protection these goods could have been acquired easily and far more cheaply from across the border. This further im- poverished the peasantry. The wages were kept low and the PL 480 shipments helped 0:1 this. The exploitation led· to two obvious results. East became poor while the in- dustrial wealth was concentrated into a Bangia Desh: 60-100\ a year. It is one of the most densely populated areas in the world: 922 persons pe~· square mile. Dacca is the capital city and Chittagong the major port. The :major crops are rice and jute. Both its culture and language are Bengali; a derivative of Sanskrit. Bengali people are short. Their staple diet is rice. They have produced scientists, professionals, intellectuals, and writers of international fame. Rabindra Nath Tagore, the Nobel Laureate, was a Bengali. West Pakistan on the other hand is composed of three different groups of \The trouble was stirring. The economic exploitation was becoming obvious even to the . .. common man. people: Baluchis, Pathans and Panjabis. It shares borders with India, Russia, Olina, Iran and Afghanistan. It was from PeshawaJ.\ that the ill fated U-2 plane flew over Russia resulting in the cancellation of the swnmit meeting between Kruschev and Eisenhower. The people are com- paratively taller than in the East and their culture is basically Persian. The language is Urdu, written in Arabi Script. West Pakistanis provide a good sized labor force in the factories in En·gland. The land mass is desert or mountainous and rainfall is around 10\. Major crops are cotton and wheat; the latter provides the staple diet of the · people. Population density is comparatively low, around 138. Islamabad is the capital city and Karachi the major port. Economic Exploitation Pakistan, like all other countries in South Asia, is a rather poor country; per capita annual income is $30. However, the relationship between the West and East have been those of exploiter and exploited. West grew richer at the cost of East even though the majority of population lived in the East. As Richard Nations (New Left Review, July-August 1971) has documented, the exploitation was effected small group. It has been estimated that In 1968, 2Z West Pakistani famllies controlled 66 per cent of the country's total industrial capital, 70 per cent of insurance and 80 per cent of banking. This process continued even after 1968. Such exploitation was made possible by keeping the Bengalis out of civil service or military. Brief Political History From 1947 to 1958 Pakistan had a large number of parliamentary governments without a single general election. In 1958 -the army took over. Since then Pakistan is ruled by an army oligarchy. This oligarchy comes wholly from a srnan number of families. Since 1958 to 1968, when Ayli.b Khan presided over the oligarchy, there was comparative quiet and the army ruled by martial law. However, the trouble was stirring. The economic exploitation was becoming obvious even to a common man. There was a lot of agitation and demonstrations by all sort of groups, students, labor, etc., in 1969. Ayub Khan was Immediately disposed of. The present army man, Yaha Khan, took over, agreed to hold elections and return the counlry to an elected parliament. In the East there were four parties: National Awaml Party, East Bengal Communist Party, East Pakistari Communist Party (M-L), and Awami League. The first three are left-Qriented parties. Their leadership did not trust the army officer's words about the election and hence they boycotted it. Awami League was a party of. the centre which looked up to U.S.A. and concentrated on constitutional matters. The leader of the Awami League is Sheikh MUjibUr Rah- man. It did grasp the national issue. Awami League agreed to the election and came out With a platform; known as six point programme. The six points are: 1. a parliamentary and Federal Government. 2. Federal government will be responsible for Defense and Foreign Affair.s only. 3. Separate but convertible currencies. 4. Separate foreign exchallge accounts. 5. Taxation by federating units, and 6. militia or para military force for East. The elections, after long delays due to one or other excuse, took place on PERCENT AGE DISTRIBUTION BETWEEN WEST AND EAST PAKISTAN OF SOME ECONOMIC AND POLITICAL VARIABLES Variable Population Foreign Exchange Earnings GNP Budget Expenditures Foreign Aid Allocations Employment- Civil Service Employment -Military Per Capita Income West Eost 45 55 45 55 55 45 70 30 80 20 80 20 90 10 $105 $60 FLEEING Ul!OJlTH met slower death at the hands of cholera. The. Bet:17ayal December 7, 1970. These ele.etions were for the Pakistan National Assembly which was to have 313 elected members. Out of these 313 .• 169 were to be elected from the East and th,e remain~ from the West. \There. is not a sin against humanity - looting. arson, murder. rape -that has not been committed by the West Pun;a.bi army. The calculated and grim massacres parallel those of Nazi Germany.\ Awamt League contested all the 169 seats · in tbe East and won 167 of them. Tbus .it had a majority in the Assembly and ac- cording to parliamentary practice and custom, its leader woUld have been asked to form the government. -It needs to be emphasized that this was the FIRST general election based on adUlt franchise 1n lhe whole 23 year history of Pakistan. In· the West the maior party was Pakistan ·People'S Party led by an opportunist landlord, namely Bhutto. This party won M seats. The remaining 66 seats were divided into a number of groups. ·A large number of these small groups supported Mujib. By parlia:n'J.entary practice, Mujib would form the govermnent while Bhutto would lead the opposition. However, the military had no intention to give up power. In this .sen~, the leftist parties judgment seems to have proved to be the soundest. Accordingly, the history Of the period from election to ·March 25, 1971 is a story of deceit and treachery on the part of the army oligarchy and Bhutto. First Yaha Khan postponed the meeting of the Assembly even without taking the electe~ majority party into confidence. Second, YahaKhanasked Mujibto give up 'ws electoral platform. Third, Yaha asked Mujib to give Bhutto an important role in the government. These demands were used to buy time for the military to prepare and plan lts strategy. When Yaha postponed the assembly, the Bengalis became suspicious. On Match 7, 1971 Mujib declared \Non-cooperation.\ This non-cooperation was total, so muchsothat no judge of the high court could be found to administer the oath of ()ff).ce to the new: governor whom Ya.ha had appointed as a part of his military strategy. The entire civil service and police refused to attend office in the East and pledged their sup- port to Mujib. From hindsight it seems support to Mujib. From hindsJght it seems obvious that Mujib was taken in by the military who managed to slip in a few divisions while Yaha was still talking with · Mujib from Marctl 7 to March .24. The weakness of the Awami League and its leadership has been that it failed to ap• srmse the power and brutality of the $'Illy and the h,ypocrisy of the army ruling. oligarchy. Accordingly they ·did no-t Jrepare the masses for a long stl'ugkle .against a wen !rained, well equip and well enlrenched anny. The Carnage March 25, 1971 is the blackest da in ij,te history of the people of Bengal. On pat UL-. fated. evening, a barbaric ford~ o. · w•.~t Pakistani army was -let loose on 1;h~ Bengali people. They started g!:net•J Slaughter and massacre of .iniloct_l!t people. '!bey burnt homes, shops, · . · g~, towns in wholesale. In a few d2 'I i!te military boasted of having killed:hu · 1rect~, of thousands of people. Tber~· is t~a single sin against humanity, -= 1 ij~;mg, arson, murder, rape, -that has nri be~ committed by the West P~jabi ~- .1:· '1\e 0101, calculated and grim rna · · ~• paraRel with those by the Nazi ~· P. Dayal ~arwala, bimself an e .))e,e, !: 11 . ...• ( ll t 11 I 1 n 'I n \1 fl n 01 A p e1 N B sc si ·t< ni a til w (.'( t11 1o D1 ex r~ OJ re

Page 4 CONCORDIENSIS, October 26, 1971 Editor's Note: The following is printed, courtesy of the Rensselaer Polytechnic. The author is a professor of Economics at R. P. I. By DR. ROMESH DIWAN Associate Professor of Economics It was in 1947 that the British Rule in India came to an end, at last. The deliverance was not painless. In the process, the then India was partitioned into two countries; the present India and Pakistan. Pakistan was formed by areas whose majority population was Muslim. The Muslim majority in these areas was between 51-60 per cent. The formation of Pakistan involved one of the largest population transfers in the world, and in the end Pakistan was composed of two areas; East and West. Both these areas are physically separated by 1,000 miles of Indian territory. As a result of population transfers, West has 90 per cent Muslim population and East 75 per cent. India still has more Muslims than in any of the two parts of Pakistan. It is East Pakistan which is now called Bangia Desh. Bang!a Desh is largely surrounded by India and prior to partition it formed the eastern part of the state of BengaL It shares with India a border of as many as 1,300 miles. Its land mass is basically a delta fonned by two large rivers, Ganges and_ Brahmaputra. It is well en- dowed with rains which fall in the range of by the manipulation of two policies; {i) overvaluation and (ii) import license. Pakistan did not have any entrepreneurial class in 1947. The government through its Qvil Service and on the advice of the Harvard Advisory Service literally created the industrial class. To do so, it needed foreign exchange, which came from jute production in the East. Jute production is not a capitalized agriculture. Instead the production is carried on by hundreds and thousands of peasants. In view of L.'le overvaluation the farmers received a smaller amount of returns. The government acquired the foreign ex- change. This foreign exchange was given to a very select group of West Pakistani people via import licenses to start in- dustries. In the name of the infant industry the markets for these goods were pr-otected. As a result the farmer and wage earners had to pay higher prices. Without protection these goods could have been acquired easily and far more cheaply from across the border. This further im- poverished the peasantry. The wages were kept low and the PL 480 shipments helped do this. The exploitation led to two obvious results. East became poor while the in- dustrial wealth was concentrated into a Bangia Desh: 60-100\ a year. It is one of the most densely populated areas in the world: 922 persons pe; square mile. Dacca is the capital city and Chlttagong the major port. The major crops are rice and jute. Both its culture and language are Bengali; a derivative of Sanskrit. Bengali people are short. Their staple diet is rice. They have produced scientists, professionals, intellectuals, and writers of international fame. Rabindra Nath Tagore, the Nobel Laureate, was a Bengali. West Pakistan on the other hand is composed of three different groups of \The trouble was stirring. The f!ronomic exploitation was becoming obvious even to the .. common man. people: Baluchis, Pathans and Panjabis. It shares borders with India, Russia, China, Iran and Afghanistan. It was from Peshawar that the ill fated U-2 plane flew over Russia resulting in the cancellation of the sununit meeting between Kruschev and Eisenhower. The people are com- paratively taller than in the East and their culture is basically Persian. The language is Urdu, written in Arabi Script. West Pakistanis provide a good sized labor force in the factories in England. The land mass is desert or mountainous and rainfall is around 10\. MajQr crops are cotton and wheat; the latter provides the staple diet of the people. Population density is comparatively low, around 138. Islamabad is the capital city and Karachi the major port. Econom~c Exploitation Pakistan, like all other countries in South Asia, is a rather poor country; per capita annual income is $80. However, the relationship between the West and East have been those of exploiter and exploited. West grew richer at the cost of East even though the majority of population lived in the East. As Richard Nations (New Left Review, July-August 1971) has documented, the exploitation was effected small group. It has been estimated that in 1968, 22 West Pakistani families controlled 66 per cent of the country's total industrial capital, 70 per cent of insurance and 80 per cent of banking. This process continued even after 1968. Such exploitation was made possible by keeping the Bengalis out of civil service or military. Brief Political History From 1947 to 1958 Pakistan had a large number of parliamentary governments without a single general election. In 1958 ·the army took over. Since then Pakistan is ruled by an army oligarchy. This oligarchy comes wholly from a small number of families. Since 1958 to 1968, when Ayub Khan presided over the oligarchy, there was comparative quiet and the army ruled by martial law. However, the trouble was stirring. The economic exploitation was becoming obvious even to a common man. There was a lot of agitation and demonstrations by all sort of groups, students, labor, etc., in 1969. Ayub Khan was immediately disposed of. The present army man, Yaha Khan, took over, agreed to hold elections and return the country to an elected parliament. In the East there were four parties: National Awami Party, East Bengal Communist Party, East Pakistan Communist Party (M-L), and Awami League. The first three are left\iJriented parties. Their leadership did not trust the army officer's words about the election and hence they boycotted it. Awami League was a party of the centre which looked up to U.S.A. and concentrated on constitutional matters. The leader of the Awami League is Sheikh Mujibur Rah- man. It did grasp the national issue. Awami League agreed to the election and came out with a platform; known as six point progranune. The six points are: 1. a parliamentary and Federal Government.2. Federal government will be responsible for Defense and Foreign Affairs only. 3. Separate but convertible currencies. 4. Separate foreign exchange accounts. 5. Taxation by federating units, and 6. militia or para military force for East. The elections, after long delays due to one or other excuse, took place on PERCENTAGE DISTRIBUTION BETWEEN WEST AND EAST PAKISTAN OF SOME ECONOMIC AND POLITICAL VARIABLES Variable Population Foreign Exchange Earnings GNP Budget Expenditures Foreign Aid Allocations Employment- Civil Service Employment- Military Per Capita Income West East 45 55 45 55 55 45 70 30 80 20 80 20 90 10 $105 $60 The Betrayal ( December 7, 1970. These elections were for the Pakistan National Assembly which was to have 313 elected members. Out of these 313, 169 were to be elected from the F.ast and the remain~ from the West. \There is not a sin against humanity - looting, arson, murder, rape - that has not been committed by the West Puniabi army. The calculated and grim massacres parallel tho.~e of Nazi Germany. \ Awami: League contested all the 169 seats in the East and won 167 of them. Thus it had a majority in the Assembly and ac- cording to parliamentary practice and custom, its leader would have been asked to form the government. It needs to be emphasized that this was the FIRST general election based on adult franchise m the whole 23 year history of Pakistan. In the West the ma.lor party was Pakistan ·People's Party ied by an opportunist landlord, namely Bhutto. This party won 110 seats. The remaining 66 seats were divided into a number of groups. A large number of these small groups supported Mujib. By parliamentary practice, Mujib would fonn the government while Bhutto would lead the opposition. However, the military had no intention to give up power. In this sense, the leftist parties judgment seems to have proved to be the soundest. Accordingly, the history of the period from election to March 25, 1971 is a story of deceit and treachery on the part of the army oligarchy and Bhutto. First Yaha Khan postponed the meeting of the Assembly even without taking the elected majority party into confidence. Second, Yaha Khan asked Mujib to give up 'his electoral platform. Third, Yaha asked Mujib to give Bhutto an important role in the goverrunPnt. These demands were used to buy time for the military to prepare and plan its strategy. When Yaha postponed the assembly, the Bengalis became suspicious. On March 7, 1971 Mujib declared \Non$Cooperation.\ This non-cooperation was total, so much so that no judge of the high court could be found to administer the oath of office to the new governor whom Yaha had appointed as a part of his military strategy. The entire civil service and police refused to attend office in the East and pledged their sup- port to Mujib. From hindsight it seems support to Mujib. From hindsight it seems obvious that Mujib was taken in by the military who managed to slip in a few divisions while Yaha was still talking with Mujib from March 7 to March 24. The weakness of the Awami League and its leadership has been that it failed to ap~ Jrai.se the power and brutality of the army and the hypocrisy of the army ruling oligarchy. Accordingly they did not prepare the masses for a long strug~le against a well trained, well equippqd and well entrenched arnJy. l 1 The Carnage . ~· ~.., March 25, 1971 is the blackest da in the history of the people of Bengal. On hat ill, fated evening, a barbaric force of Wt:st Pakistani army was let loose on the Bengali people. They started general slaughter and massacre of ,innoctnt people. They burnt homes, shops, villages, towns in wholesale. In a few w ~ the military boasted of having killed hv !reds of thousands of people. Ther~t.· is iof:l\a single sin against humanity, - l1 Jtmg, arson, murder, rape, - that has n~ been conunitted by the West Panjabi su·nl('. '1.1,}e cool, calculated and grim map,qcres parallel with those by the Nazi Genf.lany. P. Dayal Agarwala, himself an e~pee, .. WNELINESS AND FRIGHT cbara!~~ri:Ee the half-life of refugees. ... I I ~ I I I d 7 1 (] I s 0 a p n r; T ~ T. rr. w 1'1; m or A, P; et Nl Bl S(J siJ to Ill C(] lJI: w~ co th b m co ra co: reJ

they -did no-t Iori{;' strug'\e equip . and [est. d.a in the ~ai. On p:at· ~ fore~ 0 . w•st loose on tJi~ ll'ted ~~net~J of .innoc'm.t ~ops, . ·g~-. few d2 IJ the illfd:hu · ired~, 1er~ js tf*\a y, - 1 ~,mg, ; has n€l bec;m mi~. . .. '1\e 1 ril . -~~ azi Ge~ . '.i' ~an \~' ...• des(ll;'i~ some of these in ''East· Paldstan .,.... tbe Goondas of Saidpur\ (New York Times, August 19, ·1971). Anthony MaseHJ\enbas a West Pakistani journalist who had a chance to see it first hand, has described them in \What Price Pakistan.\ (Washmgton Post, June. l3, 1971). As the recent news suggests, these massacres are _atill continuing. The murders have been sclective, and the selected victims are Hindus, doctors, professors, students, write.PS, lawyers, judges, etc. 1\fujibur Rahman is now under arrest and being tried for treason. What an irony. The elected. man being tried by people who cannot get few votes and are not respon- sible even to .human conScience. These mlltders have started a stream of refugees pouring into India, .into crowded and inhuman refugee camps safe frcmi mur- der. Already they number some 8.6 million . and .are expected to increase to 10 million by the end of 1971. • New Delhi INDIA 0 stream so beavy and continuous, the economic resources of India so poor, tbat in spite of the best .efforts by tbe govern- ment of -India,.· their . plight remains P,tiable. They need all the help, material, financial, medicinal, they can get from any part of tbe world. India 'and Pakistan In view .of the partition of Pakistan. Jndi~ and Pakistan have always been at odds. 'lbey have already fought two wars in 1948 and 1965. The relations between them are now again te~se. _ _fak;istan complains that India supports the Mukti Flanhini. In this respect India has no choice but tQ sUpport Mukt.i BWiini. This is so because of the folloWing reasons. 1. The gener~ climate.of opinion in India today is extremely favourable to the cause of the people of Bangia Desh. The Indian Parliament, reflecting these feelings, has already gQne on record to support the 0 )\ (!UERRitlA TRAINING CAMPS • GUERRILI.A ENCLAVES 0 REFUGEE ENCAMPMENTS ~~FLOW OF REFUGEES INDIA PAKISTAN AT W.t\R with itseU: Separatedbymoretban space. Of A People · · Current Situation People in and of Bangia Desh can be divided into three related .groups. 1. The occupying army, estimated .at 70,000, artd a small minority of people living in Bangia Desh who support the occupying army. These are called \Biharis.\ They had originally come from Bihar - a state in India. They fonn the source of informers and recruitment to the occupying army. They are estimated '!It around a few hwulred thousand. The total population of Bangia Desh is arowtd 70 million. . 2. The Bengali populatiQn in Bangia Desh. They number around 60 IIlillion. They have supported Awami League, but now they are getting more radicalized. They do not accept the legitimacy of the military occupying force. They are not well organized. Yet they provide resistance. 'lbere is now a guerrilla movement basically manned and organized by groups such as National Awami Party, East Bengal Conununist Party, East Pakistan Communist Party etc. These parties provide the basts of the National Liberation Front, called Mukti Bahini. Mukti Bahini has already won some notable battles. The situation-now-~­ simllar to Vietnam. '!he army controls the towns in the· day and Mukti Bahini in the night. Mukti Bahini also contr.ols the oountry side. The Awami League-has set up a government of Bangia DeSh and is working for its recognition from other countries of the Wo_rld. · struggle of the Bangia people. India has an elected govetflm-ent, and an elected government cannot disregard national feelings. Compared to the people's sen- timents, the policies of the government are rather restrained. 2. In West Bengal, a state ·bordering Bangia Desh, Indian government is already facing trouble at the hands of Naxalites -a militant radical group. Non- support of Mukti Bahini will provide further cause, support and legitimacy to Naxalites. 3. India has offered its borders to the refugees. Judging from the number of refugees, the people of Bangla Desh feel safer in refugee camps in spite of their . . . ~ t . ~··{~. . ·':. ~:v~'' .~,~~~~\w~~. ·, CONCORD lENS IS, October 26, /971 Page 5 ,. Sl'ARV 4. 'l'l()N KNOWS no age barriers for mosdn exile. obvious limitations. These refugees first against India and now against JrOVide · the breeding ground for sup- Pakistanis themselves. porters and recruits of Mukti Bahini. The Pakistan is also one of the largest goverm'nent -of India has such an uphill recipients of economic aid, around $4 taskto ·continue the humanitarian work of mllions to date. Economic aid is coor- feeding and keeping them alive that it dinated by the World Bank through the hardly has any time, energy or resources \Aid-to-Pakistan Consortium\ which is left to supervise them. composed of all rich western nations. 4. India shares a border... with Bangia Recently one of the investigating teams of Desh which is too large to patrol. Bangia World Bank recommended that aid should Desh people can easily slip in and out. be discontinued. All the countl'ies, except {Ut is in the interest of India that Bangia the USA, have suspended aid. China also Deshgetsliberated as early as possible so provides some small amount of aid. that .refugees go back and the economic 'lbe massacre and carnage by the West and political strain on India is lesseneed. Pakistan army raises two questions for US Thus Pakistan's complaint cannot be policy. Should the US condemn or condone conceded since it foDows from its own this massacre? This is a moral issue. policies. and from the dynamics of the Silence is condoning. Vietnam has cer- situation that its actions have created. tainly taken away from USA the right to On the other hand, India has a complaint moral leadership. It has not, however, too. First, refugees are not of India's taken the capacity of USA to assert on choosing. They have been .forced on her in moral issues. Secondly should the US view ()f her humanitarianism. Second, the continue its economic .and military aid to burden of these refugees on the economic Pakistan? and social fabric of India is too severe. The Vietcong and North Vietnamese have fact that Pakistan has killed the Hindus always distinguished between American especially creates Hindu·Muslim tension people and its government. This distinc- in India. '!be economic cost of merely ti.on becomes quite clear in the present feeding and .keeping the refugees even in case. American people, in the form of such iruluinan conditions bas been ~ress, media, Congress, etc., have con- estimated by the world bank to be .ap· demned Pakistan and urged cessation of p.\oximately one billion dollars a year· economic and military aid to her. The . India is a poor country and can hardly senate of the state of Massachusetts has afford such large sunis. The international gone on record to urge its people to stop commtmity has promised 200 million economic and military aid to Pakistan. doDars and U.S.A. has given Just $80 The House has already passed the million.. Thus the government of India_ is Gallagher Amendment prohibiting the US saddled with virtually a billion d.oUi:U .government from providing any aid to burden. . •· Pakistan. A similar bill is now before the u.s. FtJiicy Being a member of SEATO and CENTO, Pakistan is one of the largest recipients of US military aid. Between 1954 and 1965 such aid was estimated to be around $2 Wlion. 'lbe aid has included hardware like F-104 starfighters, .Patton tanks, armored personnel carriers ·and amnumition. In view of the Indo~ Pakistan war, sale and grant 9f military materials was halted in 1965 to . be resmned in 196't in the fonn of non-lethal ammunition first, and other materi-als including B-57 bombers in 1970. All this equipment was intended to be used against China. It has instead been used Senate. Dock people have boycotted the loading of ammwlition in Pakistani ships in Baltimore. The US administration, on the other hand, has kept a silence on the moral issue and has .continued providing both economic and military -aid to Pakistan. They have offered three explanations in defense: 1. The military aid has been stopped but the ships caught in the act were the result of administrative bungling. Continued on Page 7 Photos courtesy Newsweek, Time and Raghu Rai. 3. 'lb~ eight and a half million refugees that keep on increasing still. They are now located in India in the crowded and makeshift refugee camps. Their liVing conditions are hardly sufficient, food rather limited; disease and death qUite mmmon. Unfortunately, the siZe of the refugee population is ~ enonnous~ the. BENGALI VlCfiMS In East Paldstan: 'CivtUzed mell -caDilOt deBCrlbe Ute bottor

. ,. !_, , I • .hey did not long st't'uggle equipPfid and II ~ - .. ~est ~a : ~e ~al. On :hat ilL, ~orce of W~st loose on the rted general of , innocl{_nt 1ops, villages, rew d/? 1 the lledht: !reds tert · is aof1' a , • --..:. 11 Jang. has nil been abi am\('. '!be I lila?,RCfes 121 Gext .1any. : an escapee, .. describes some of these in \East Pakistan -the Goondas of Saidpur\ (New York Times, August 19, · 1971). Anthony Masearenhas, a West Pakistani journalist who had a chance to see it first hand, has described them in ''What Price Pakistan.'' (Washington Post, June 13, 1971). As the recent news suggests, these massacres are still continuing. The murders have been selective, and the selected victims are Hindus, doctors, professors, students, writeFS, lawyers, judges, etc. Mujibur Rahman is now under arrest and being tried for treason. What an irony. The elected man being tried by people who cannot get few votes and are not responm sible even to human conscience. These murders have started a stream of refugees pouring into India, into crowded and inhuman refugee camps safe from mur- der. Already they number some 8.6 million and are expected to increase to 10 million by the end of 1971. • New Delhi INDIA 0 stream so heavy and continuous, the economic resources of India so poor, that in spite of the best efforts by the govern· ment of India, their plight remains pitiable. They need all the help, material, financial, medicinal, they can get from any part of the world. !ndia and Pakistan In view of the partition of Paltistan, India and Pakistan have always been at odds. They have already fought two wa:rs in 1948 and 1965. The relations between them are now again tense. Pakistan complains that India supports the Mukti Banhini. In this respect .india has no choice but to support Mukti Bahini. This is so because of the following reasons. 1. The general climate of opinion in India today is extremely favourable to the cause of the people of Bangia Desh. T'ne Indian Parliament, reflecting these feelings, has already gone on record to support the 0 .K GUERRILLA TRAINING CAMPS • GUERRILLA ENCLAVES 0 REFUGEE ENCAMPMENTS IL~'' FLOW OF REFUGEES PAKISTAN AT WAR with itself: Separated by more than space. Of A People Current Situation People in and of Bangia Desh can be divided into three related groups. 1. The occupying army, estimated at 70,000, and a small minority of people living in Bangla Desh who support the occupying army. These are called \Biharis.\ They had originally come from Bihar - a state in India. They form the source of informers and recruitment to the occupying army. They are estimated at around a few hundred thousand. The total population of Bangla Desh is around 70 million. 2. The Bengali population in Bangia Desh. They number around 60 million. They have supported Awami League, but now they are getting more radicalized. They do not accept the legitimacy of the military occupying force. They are not well organized. Yet they provide resistance. There is now a guerrilla movement basically manned and organized by groups such as National Awami Party, East Bengal Communist Party, East Pakistan Communist Party etc. These parties provide the basis of the National Liberation Front, called Mukti Bahini. Mukti Bahini has already won some notable battles. The situation -now is similar to Vietnam. The army controls the towns in the day and Mukti Bahini in the night. Mukti Bahini also controls the country side. The Awami League has set up a government of Bangia Desh and is working for its recognition from other countries of the World. · 3. The eight and a half million refugees that keep on increasing still. They are now located in India in the crowded and makeshift refugee camps. Their living conditions are hardly sufficient, food rather limited, disease and death quite conunon. Unfortunately, the size of the refugee population is so enormous. the struggleoftheBangla people. India has an elected government, and an elected government cannot disregard national feelings. Compared to the people's sen- timents, thepoliciesofthe government are rather restrained. 2. In West Bengal, a state -bordering Bangla Desh, Indian government is already facing trouble at the hands of Naxalites- a militant radical group. Non- support of Mukti Bahini will provide further cause, support and legitimacy to Naxalites. 3. India has offered its borders to the refugees. Judging from the number of refugees, the people of Bangla Desh feel safer in refugee camps in spite of their CONCORDIENSIS, October 26, 1971 Page 5 . S'I'ARV ATiON KNOWS no age barriers f~r tllose m exile . obvious limitations. These refugees provide the breeding ground for sup· porters and recruits of Mukti Bahini. The government of India has such an uphill task to continue the humanitarian work of feeding and keeping them alive that it hardly has any time, energy or reS()urces left to supervise them. 4. India shares a border with Bangia Desh which is too large to patrol. Bangia Desh people can easily slip in and 01rt. 5.It is in the interest of India that Bangia Desh gets liberated as early as possible so that refugees go back and the economic and political stram on India is lesseneed- Thus Pakistan's complaint cannot be conceded since it follows from its ()wn policies and from the dynamics of the situation that its actions have created . On the other hand, India has a complaint too. First, refugees are not of India's dtoosing. They have been forced on her In view of her humanitarianism. Second, \the burden of these refugees on the economic and social fabric of India is too severe. The fact that Paldstan has killed the Hindus especially creates Hindu·Muslim tension in India. The economic cost of merely feeding and keeping the refugees even in such inhuman conditions has been estimated by the world bank to be ap- ~oximately one billion dollars a year. India is a poor country and can hardly afford such large sums. The international community has promised 200 million dollars and U.S.A. has given just $80 million. Thus the government of India is saddled with virtually a billio~ 1,olt«~ 1 burden. U.S. Ftllicy Being a member of SEATO and CENTO, Pakistan is one of the largest recipients of US military aid. Between 1954 and 1965 such aid was estimated to be around $2 billion. 'The aid has included hardware like F-104 starfighters, patton tanks, armored personnel carriers and ammunition. In view of the Indo-Pakistan war, sale and grant of military materials was hafted in 1965 to be resmned in 1967' in the form of non~lethal ammunition first, and other materials including B-57 bombers in 1970. All this equipment was intended to be used against China. It has instead been used first against India and now against Pakistanis themselves. Pakistan is also one of the largest recipients of economic aid, around $4 billions to date. Economic aid is coor- dinated by the World Bank through the \Aid-to-Pakistan Consortium\ which is composed of all rich western nations. Recently one of the investigating teams of W()rld Bank reconunended that aid should be discontinued. All the countries, except the USA, have suspended aid. China also prQvides some small amount of aid. The massacre and carnage by the West Pakistan army raises two questions for US policy. Should the US condemn or condone this massacre? This is a moral issue. Slence is condoning. Vietnam has cer- tainly taken away from USA the right to moral leadership. It has not, however, taken the capacity of USA to assert on moral issues. Secondly should the US cootinue its economic and military aid to Pakistan? Vietcong and North Vietnamese have always distinguished between American people and its government. This distinc- tion becomes quite clear in the present case. American people, in the form of press, _media, Congress, etc., have con- demned Pakistan and urged cessation of economic and military aid to her. The senate of the state of Massachusetts has gone on record to urge its people to stop economic and military aid to Pakistan. The House has already passed the Gallagher Amendment prohibiting the US government from providing any aid to Pakistan. A similar bill is now before the Senate. Dock people have boycotted the looding of ammunition in Pakistani ships in Baltimore. The US administration, on the other hand, has kept a silence on the moral issue and has continued providing both economic and military aid to Pakistan. They have offered three explanations in defense: 1. The military aid has been stopped but the ships caught in the act were the result of administrative bungling. Continued on Page 7 Photos courtesy Newsweek, Time and Raghu Rai.

Page 6 CONCORD/ENS/S, October 26, 1971 AN NotToMention FAR OUT SAtE ON. NEW AND USED STEREO EQUIPMENT Consider the BEST $330 Stereo System in EX is t e n c e Garrard 55 SL Automatic Turntable ............. 5950 YO,U SAVE $7 1 5.50 All New· Equip•ent Base; Dust Cover ............................. 11oo .. Pickering Pj ATE Cartridge . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . zsoo Pioneer SX 770 Stereo Receiver ................. 19995 · Epicure 50 Speakers ........................•. 11 ooo LIST price . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 40545 SALE price ........................• _. 32995 Tax, at 4% ..................... 1'.1 ••••••• 1360 Surtax (added after tax) Garrard 55 SL ....................... tss Pioneer SX 770 ...................... 675 TOTAL . . ... ~ . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ~ 01 • • • ........ I • • • • $ 3\5185 Consider the BEST $235. Stereo System · in EX is t e n c e. Garrard 40 B Automatic Turntable .............• 44:0 YOU SAVE $55.50 .&II New Equipment Base, Dust Cover ............................. 11 o Pickering P /ATE Cartridge .................... 2soo Pioneer SX 440 Stereo Receiver ................ 16995 Elite E-1 0 Speakers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4ooo LIST price ...... · ................ · ....... 29045 SALE price . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2349~ Tax, at 4% .. . . ... . . . . . . . . . . .. .. . . ~~~ . . . . . . . . . . . 940 Surtax (added after tax) Garrard 40 B .......................... 135 Pioneer SX -440 . . . . . . . . . . . ..... , . . . ~ . . . soo TO.T AL . . .... ~ . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 0 • • • • • • • • • • 25070 USED Oldies But Goodies Dokordev open reel deck (complete system) Sony 530 open reel deck (complete system) Viking 433 open reel - professional half traek AR Manual turntable Standard Pro 2000 cassette deck Sony 110 AC/DC port. cassette deck Sansui Headphones Fisher 444 C power amp • 40 watts RMS/ cb. Harmon Kardon speakers Zenith speakers Dyna ST 70 pow-er amp (ALL LI.STED ITEMS WI.LL BE SOLD SUPER-CHEAP) (Warranties at least 30 days) ' . ' Note that Dynakit , P AT-4 · Pre · amplifieis will be sold at accommodating prices to purchasers of used power $mplifiers. DIS~ PREENERS wiD be GIVEN AWAY with purchase of above items if .· • . . . I a copy of this ad is presented at time of sale. · Sale ends Friday; October 30, 1971. ~ome one, come all ... j J ..... .,. . ..., .

) j ') -. ., •.): \l. r.. 1 CONCORDIENS/S, October 26,. 1971 More On The Candidates Continued from Page 1 Mississippi. He took advantage of the occasion to point out that Edmund Muskie had \snubbed\ · the Evers campaign. Naturally Muskie's ~;taff promptly denied this, stating that only schedule conflicts had prevented the Senator from Main·e's appearance in person on behalf of Evers; They added that he is ,monetarily and publicly aiding the campaign nev~rthele!!s. Evers himself belittled the Senator's absence by stating \He said he moment the question of just who Nixo~t's running mate in 1972 will be pops into view. The two most prominent names at present are· Spiro Agnew and John Connally. It's an open ended questwn now and only in time will an answer become apparent. Ann Arbor, Michigan - A petition signed by half of the University· of Michigan football team and seven hundred fifty other students states the foUowing: \Bring all the troops home now; let's have a real homecoming this year.\ Primaries _,.. following is a list of the state primaries in this area. New Hampshire - March Wanted: Student to live-in to help a family in Glenville. The man of the house bas Multiple Sclerosis. He is severely handicapped and there is a need for someone to help in getting 14, 1972 Rhode Island 1972 A 'I 11 bim in and out of bed, since his pra . , wife has had a recent operation. Massachusetts 1972 A 'I 25 It would be a matter of being pr1 , Pennsylvania - April 1972 part of the family. Anyone 25, interested ~n contact Father Murphy in Old Chapel, Monday• Wednesday-Friday: 2 p.m.-4 p.m.; Tuesday-Thursday: 10 a.m.- 12 p.m., or leave a message at New Jersey - June 41, 1972 New York ... Jon' 20,1972 377-8559. * * * * The Union College Coffeehouse will present Bonnie Raitt and Pat We\)b LIVE in the Old Chapel this Friday, Oct. 29, at 8:30 p.m. Admission this week is $1.50 and once again that includes the ever-present coffee and donuts. So break open those piggy banks, folks, and we'll see you there. * * * * was vecy busy.'' Lindsay has been touring the country recently; sQunding out the people, as he says.-These trips show no signs of abating. On Sunday Lindsay spoke in New Rochelle, N.Y., and he spoke in Florida yesterday. It's reaching the point that a Lindsay· hid for the presidential · nomination is not at all science fiction, '·it is more like science. It seems to me that Lindsay is carefully assessing the political climate before he goes out into the rain. One can only hope that he i.sn't scared of tliunder, the Democratic party could use some no-nonsense lib.eralism in its ranks. Statements like Muskie's about refusing to run W~th a black vice- Educational lnnovati:on Commitee The Schenectady P.Y.E. Club will meet on Thursday, October 28, in the Social Sciences Lounge at 7:30 P.M. All members are urged to attend, along with anyone who would like to report about an environmental condition upon which P. Y .E. might be able to take action. Makes Study of Grade Structure ' by BARBARA Mc:OONALD The pres~nt system of grades bas evoked much; dispute and much dissatisfaction amQng both students and faculty. The Educational Innovation Committee instituted by the Governance Report has stated its first objective is a consideration of the grade structure and what is happerdng at Union in terms .of that structure. Jhe co{lltnittee was created to involve students and faculty in . the educational changes occurring on campus. Under the .present governmental structQre of the college, innovation was left to the administration. However, the students and faculty are more directly affected by any changes in educational policies so that their ideas concerning the innovation process are needed. In the examination of what is * * * * Anyone interested in joining the Pre-Law Society, please contact Frank Messa at 362 Davidson or phone 370-0089. * * * * Members of the order of the b~es!~~!~e;anb~d~e mC:~ ~~~ Coffeehouse: Bonnie Raitt speaks his mind straight out. This Friday night,. Oct. 29th, happening in the present grade struct11re, the committee is examining grades over the past .five years in terms of the divisions, the centers. .and the disciplines. In the process, the correlation of courses beyond the introductory courses and the grade system will be examined. A two-part report on what has happened, explaining the data collected and giving recommendations for the administration to consider is the goal of the committee. To acmeve this end, the. committee would like new ideas from the college community. Student and faculty sUggestions and views concerning the present grade situation are welcome. All material submitted will be read and duly discussed. For this purpose, there will be a depository, probably located in the Student Activities Office. Material may also be given directly to the members of the committee: Purple Pumpkin are reminded that skulking activities will be planned for Halloween this Friday, Oct. 29. Forms can be had from Mrs. Marra in the SAO. * * * * Any student interested in earning $2/hr. working for an ad agency on Friday-sand Saturday, November 12-13, may contact the Financial aid office or call Mrs. Comstock at 3 77-4700. Certainly Lindsay is known for the Union College Coffeehouse this.' . will present blues singer Bonnie Another Democrat in the news Raitt. Als.o appearing will be Pat recently .is Senator Henry Webb of Saratoga. Bonnie is \Scoop\ Jackson ·from making one of. her final W ashiligton. He was the focus of appearances before beginning a :a;:i~:. ~n f::e :e~s a:~n~;~· concert tour with Randy also of articles in Time and Newman. An accomplished Newsweek. . There are rumblings, guitarist who has developed her from where 1 don't know, .of. a own style of singing blues and Lindsay-Jac~on or a . Jackson· folk, Miss Raitt will b~ Lindsay ticket. If one takes the remembered by students as the time to look closely at this, it ·flamboyant redhead who does make some sense. In fact, a performed at the coffeehouse last Jackson.· -Lindsay ticket· is· a :;;pring with the admonition that rather strong one. A: Lindsay- most folk music is \ball-less and Jackson ticket is a more remote syrupy,\ and .proceeded to let ·forth with her own br.and of possibility, but it is also strong. music, which did indeed, \have Jackson t-U:ts ·forth the image o· f 1\ balls.\ moderate. progressivism that just · Although much .of .her, might be ·enough to sway spme repertoire is blues .in mood, she is 1 voters from Nixon, who's image ilot limited to blues alone. · AI seems to be that of a moderate., Billboard magazine review of ~~\:~~;~~=~ ~~~i.i;~ t~~a~ot~: Bonnie emphasized that, \She. Democrats. . need to interest has great versatility; she can go I disgruntled McCarthyites in a '72 campaign. As the weeks progress this partnership might .come out into the open, then again it might not. That's politics. Then there's always George McGovern wb..o, along with Shirley Chisholm are the only announced candidates as of this date. McGovern is continuing his tour of college campuses, and. there is a sizeable student movement forming in back .of him. The tone of the movement is not really the same as it was with the McCarthy movement in '68, however. As one Times reporter put it, \there is a feeling that the one really important thing that must be accompiished in 1972 is the defeat of Richard Nixon.\ I just wonder if the McGovern backers will stick with him if it becomes apparent that he cannot defeat Nixon. There is certainly no way to }l;now the answer to this. Just a brief word about Shirley Chisholm. She has been called everything from Superwoman to impotent. It is now becoming obvious that she will be a major force in the '72 Democratic convention if her plans work out. Briefly, what she intends to do is form a large block of black delegates at the convention ·in order to have .some bargaining power. The candidates who end up as top runners will certainly seek the support of these delegates. We will be hearing a lot more from her in the future. : Leaving the Democrats ·and turning to the Rep.ublicans for a I . the Union College Big ~ Brother and Big Sister II Program will hold a ~ Halloween Picnic on II Saturday, October 30, in I Jackson. ;s Gar. dens. The picnic will start at one o'clock and, if the weather is bad, the I' festivities wili be held in th. e I Field. llouse. There will be plenty of food, fun, and fi surprises, and aU little I R brothers and sisters are urged J to cotile in costumes. The I II p.icnic Is .open to all inembers ·J u' and their little brothers and . .sisters and to all interested 1 students. Members with 6ttle 1 brothers and sisters are ask~ ( to make arrangements with their little brothers and sisters I· to attend since much work has already gone into planning the ·1· picnic. n The Schenectady Probation a J)epartment is asking for. Big I Brothers and Sisters to work I wi.th youngsters o. n probation. I These youngsters, ranging in fi age from 13•16, are in I II desperate need of adult D guidance arid companionship ~ II. and offer a real challenge to 1 any student willing to work for the betterment of the lj community. Any students ~ interested in working with ~ youngsters on probation or II simply interested in the . .program are urged to contact John Calendert Phi Gamma , I)elta, 372-0172, or Marie . Bednar, B~:onner House, 370- 0274. from 'Special Delivery Blues' to 'Woodstock' to 'I Fell For You,' a soulful Lennie Welsh hit. She has a confidence in what she. is doing and an ability to charm an audience.\ B-onnie and Pat Webb, who appeared. recently at Cafie Lena in 'Toga, will be performing at 8:30 p.m. this Friday, in the Old Chapel (above the Rathskellar). Admission is .$1.50, and naturaiy: the coffee ana donuts (back by popular demand) are free. Don't miss a chance to see these two fine peff<>rmers .:_,again if you've seen them already, or for the first . '(always. the best) .time if you haven't. Professor -Gado, Chairman Professor Pani6o Professor Maytock Professor Walbeck Steve Spellman Bob Kurter Bangia Desh • • The Peace . Corps and 1 VISTA will have a campus I representati.ve at Union on 1 Monday, November 1, to pr.ovide i1_1formation to I interested students. · Mr.· Travis Gamble will be I available in Schaffer Library from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. At 4 J o'clock, a related film- discussion will . be held in SS I 016. Students from all 1 departments are urged to inquire. ;.J • Continued froJ,.D Page 5 govermnent formed by free will of peopie expressed 2. The military sale was through elections, and \creating intense anti- cOmpleted before the ban. 3. The aid provides a American feelings among 600 million people in \leverage\indeali:llg with the military oUgarclly in South Asia. ,Pakistan~ Two claims have been made in suppqrt of In the. end, the liberation forces of Bangla Desh the \leverage\ thesis. One, that it has resulte4 in are going to win. It may or may not be a long the agreement Of. th~ Pakistan government to allow struggle. The situation bas similarities to both UN, US, and other foreign personnel to join Algeria and Vietnam. Mukti Bahini bas many ad- Pakistani mWtary officers in relief .adivilies ill vantages. The population of Bangia Desh is large Bimgla Desh. 1'bis is obviously a smokescreen~ The and well politicized .. Ev~ry day it gets more · occUpying army is neither wD.ling nor competent to radicalized and provides the necessary source of distribute relief. Even though US has given $2 recruitment for guerrillas. The guerrillas know the million for charter relief ships, the Pakistan. army terrain and speak a common language. The oe-- has used most of· tbem to transport troops and cupying army is clearly recognizable. There are ammunition. Moreover, the problem Qf relief in excellent sanctuaries across the border. Vietcong Bangia Desh is Unked, fundamentally, with the does not have this advantage. The occupying p-oblem of transport. Transport prov,ides the oc· country is financially and economically broke. It cupying army the means to-control tbe areas it has can hardly afford, at least not for long, a supply line been able to .control. .Accordingly, mea11s of tian~ spread over 3,000 miles. There are already stirrings sport, such as roads, bridges, rails, etc., have been _ in West Pakistan itself. Students and members of the particular ta.-getsof Mukti Bahini. Mukti Bahini the ·K:issan•Mazdoor Party (peasant and workers bas been rather succesSful in destroying these party) have already been .jailed. Economic strain means of transport. It is, thus, in the interest. of the will further accentuate the revolutionary process in OCCUpying anny to get some of these roads West Pakistan that ~me so potent in 196~9 and repaired. Internatiorial relief provides the best resulted in the downfall of Ayuh Khan. cover. Itis interestilig to note that US Is providing The time needed to achieve liberation will depend helicopters, trucks and 600-3,600 ton shallow river upon two factors. The severity of the impending bo!lts from its $137 million relief aid to Pakistan famine in Bangia Desh and the effectiveness of the army. Second, that due to leverage Yall~ has an- relief efforts create uncertainties in the immediate nouriced amnesty and opened up rehabilitation future. The economic and military aid from the US, centers for the return of the refugees. This is far- Olina, Iran and Turkey, may give a lease, albeit for cical. The stream of refugees, even today, is one a few months only, to the dying Pakistan army way - from Bangia Desh to India. oligarchy. There are many ways that we as in· It is difficult to elq)lair) why tbe US administration dividuals can help to reduce the pain and sufferings follows a po6cy opposlte. to the one desired and from this vast human tragedy. One, we can con- wished by its people. The objectives .of foreign tribute and donate generously materials, such as policy with respect to Pakistan and South Asia have old clothes, blankets, old shoes, dried milk, never been made explicit. One can make various vitamins; etc., and money to help relieve the auf- hypotheses. The US maybe interested in the control ferings of the refugees. There are many agencies of the Indian Ocean. The US feels more comfortable that will collect donations and send these to and at horne With military dictatorships. Certainly, refugees. Two, we can make people aware of the Greece, Spain, Turkey, Argentilia, Brazil, etc., are enormity of human tragedy from the impendiD,g similar eases. Perhaps it is a left-over of the past famine in Bangia Desh so that the international ·policy which is dictated by sheer force of habit now. agencies and governments become concerned and 'lbe policy is thereby·msensitive to current needs avoid another Biafra. It may be ·emphasized that we and reaUties and is protected by secrecy. The must check the credentials of the· relief agencies Pentagon Papers do document such in.. lest they should work with the PakiStan al'IllY and consistencies .. Any way tbis pqlicy has been sue- · p-ovide it a cover for more brutalities. Three, we cessflll in keeping in. power a military dlctatorship, can help to form and mobilize the opinion that will depying tbe people in Pakistan a representative halt the military and economic aid to Pakist-an.

Page8 CONCORDIENSIS, October 26. 1971 . . ·· ... '· \Concordy Sports Rainy Report On , Soccer U.psets Colgate Tour de Union by MARTY BERMAN The Union College soccer team got a s-uperlative performan.ce from practically every one of 1ts Run on a wet .leaf-littered 1 and was only ~ble to present the players to come up with an course under rainy skies last list of the first ten finishers b) outstanding 2-1 victory over Sunday, the Second Annual team number. A sheet is highly regarded Colga-te Tour de Union was won by a available at the Student Saturday, The Dutchmen now team of four independents from Activities Office for those team sport a 4-1-I record and will fa?e Fox House. members to record their names Kings P·oint away _ thts The victorious members of so that a more official order of Wednesday; Colgate is 4-4 on the Teani 16 - sophomore Chris finish- can be published in a later season. Hubbard, juniors· Bob Siletzky Concordy. ·The obviously superior Red and Steve Tytko, and senior As of M<>nday night, the order Raiderscompletelycontrolled play Keith Jamba - were presented of finish, listed with handicaps, through the early part of the their award by President Martin was: .game. Th~;;:ir short passing game after the race, but the_ officia~ 1. Team 16, Hubbard, was beautiful, but it repeatedly photograph of the ceremony wib Siletzky, Tytko, Jamba (I lap) proved fruitless in the area of the not be available until later in the 2. Team 18,? (llap) Garnet goal. The Union d~ense week. 3. Team 24,? (llap) and goalie Jim Sletteland were The winners had a one lap 4. ream 7,? (2 laps) unbeatable, waiting for the handicap, and the second - s. Team 10, Civin..s, Murphy, offense to get moving. through fourth-place finishers Haus, Bain Late in the first period, the also rode with handicaps. The 6. Team 20,? (2'1aps) Dutchmen approached the first team to finish the entire 20 7. Team 5,? Colgate goal for only the second lap course was Team 10 ~ 8. Team 6, Cassella, SpeUman time in the quarter but Harvey Civins, Father James CampbeU, Bodenstab capitalized on it. Co-captain Art Murphy, Bill Haus, and Georg_e 9. Team 13,? Fraser took a comer kick and set Bain. 10. Team 8, Bonnie, Meserole, up Sandy Wilder in front of the Unfortunately, .the Tour Judd, Hudak. . net. Wilder, a jumping jack who Committee lost the &gn-up chart . . . Hobart Overruns Dutchmen 40-21 .. · two-yarder by A-Z and a 55-yard of the extra pomt, . Aleks1e~cz, by LEAPIN . punt return by defensive halfback set to ho~d. f?r the krcker, ptcked Some 3000 Garnet fans Ken Pratt. up the ptgskm and raced around suffered through an<>ther Daley With 3:23 to go in the half,· the oru:ushing Garnet line for the Field farce last Saturday as Mitchell plunged into Hobart's two pomts an~ a 27•14 lead. Hobart whipped the Union end zone from the one and It was nudway through ~he football team, 40-21. kicked another extra point, fourth quarter when. Jtm The highlight of the game making for a comparatively close Brenna~ caught the only H~b~ could well have been the battle of 19-14 score at the break. completion of the day, making 1t the cheerleaders. Union's The Garnet received the 34-14. megaphone-toting male second half kickoff at its 35 and' Westbrook scored from ten cheerleaders razzed the heck out threatened to do the impossible. yards out on _sheer speed and of the Statesmen·-sweeties. At one But Mitchell's third down pass with no blocking as he raced point, one sarcastic Union just 14 yards from the Statesman around left end: but A-Z closed student yelled, .. Go, go, Hobart goal line was intercepted by out the. romp w1th a 49-yard !'In High, rah, rah!\ linebacker Tom Korn. two. llllnutes from the merctful Dutchmen freshman football Adding salt to the Dutchmen endm~. . coach Bruce Allison thought the wounds, the 4-1 Statesmen then Umon, now 2-4, probably ~1~ Garnet fans as well as its drove 85 yards in 21 plays suffer another loss .- 10 cheerleaders, ~ere not being kind consuming over 8 minutes. Williamstown~ ~~ss., next hosts and rumor has it that the Fullback Dennis Harrison scored Saturday as 1t ~s1ts the 4-1 Flyin~ Dutchmen will be banned from the three. With Raab _ and Ephmen. ::::·'t#~t~~J: h~3; :;«AiJtgolllgallou';;;;/i/ ,..,..II~~·~ \1)/JJJ9e't4 chance for wm number three, b} .};) Tff/(; V f/.J'W 1 G' J \!1,.,] Athletic Director Allison. · The football game featured a by BULLET Hobart offense that rushed 97 The Garnet . Rugby Club times for 4.5 yards per carry and suffered its second straight 444 yards overall, half of those shutout loss of the fall season on by .. A to Z\ Don Aleksiewicz. A- Saturday, falling to a burly z rushed 39 times for his 222, fifteen from Albany Medical and fellow halfback Jerry Hanley College 20-0. Union has now added 109 yards. Statesman failed to score in 120 minutes of quarterback Bob Raleigh gained Rugby this fall. The Dutchmen 73 yards and completed one of were never really in the contest, two passes, with that connection as the red and white clad Med- coming on a fourth down from men muscled their way into a 12- the Union eight and resulting in o bulge before the contest was the clinching touchdown in the barely ten minutes old. The score final quarter. · could have been even mote controlled play until late in the contest, when two Garnet . defensive lapses led to the final pair of Albany tties. The tuggers will be on the road next weekend as they travel to Williams to take _ on the Epbs' rugby club. Williams boast!! another strong team this season, already having beaten Albany Med 6-4. But they are not as big and rough as Albany, and that should ·give the Dutchmen, especially Union's scrummers, some hope for a win on Saturday. The visitors-controlled the ball lopsided, as . bad as 35..0, if for over 39 minutes of play and Albany's kicker had been on the JV' . Baoters Lose converted a third or fourth down mark. But the Med hooter situation into a first down or missed all five conversion touchdown 18 times, That is attempts after the Aloany tries. offensive production. . Once again the Dutchmen By comparison, the Dutchmen were soundly defeated in rugby's ran 57 plays and their 296 total equivalent of footbaU's yards included 164 on the \trenches\ -· the serum. The ground. Quarterback Bobby lightweight Garnet forwards were· Mitchell hit 11 of 20 passes for once again outweighed, 132 yards, and freshman overmatched, and repeatedly halfback Ron Westbrook bowed pushed off the ball in the ea!IY out with his usual great game, gcing by a bigger and heavier by FRANK DeLUCIA specializes in head balls, popped 1 ·headed for the vacated net, but a one i~to the corner of the net diving Ira Turret came from with 7:13 showing on. the clo~k. · nowhere to steer the· ball away To e:vecyone's surpnse, · Umon for a corner kick. was leading 1-o. . . . Although the Dutchmen had In the l~st ttunute of _{llay m to play the last quarter _without the opemng stanza, . Bobby Fraser, who is injured, they held Bernhardt hit co-caPtam Paul the Red Raiders at bay and even Martini on the wi~ . with a controlled play for the last fifteen perfect pass. Martlm then minutes. Colgate finally lost its centered the , ba.ll .along the poise,. and the last five min~tes . gr.ound · to a _cuttmg Dus~y degenerated into a game ,of ki~k­ Richards, who connect~d for ~s and-r-un soccer, with the bustling \\ {ifth goal of the carn,prugn. With Garnet holding the edge. 41 second~ left in the quartet, the Heading along on 0 ne of their Garnet led Colgate 2..0.. . . _ best se.asons ever, the Dutcb~en In the second peno4 _ Umon now .have 'ings P(:lmt, play~d spme oft~eir _fin~~! ,s?ccer .. Mic!d.l.ebury? Hartfo~d, and oft~~ yea~~.At the twe~ve llllnute. , A-lP.any State on the schedule. mark, Du:~ Samuel~s fed . Only Middlebury should. pose Bernhardt wtth a ~eautiful. lo~ problems, unless Fraser's lDJU!'Y, pass, and the . nght wm~er a possible bone fracture, proves completed the play by pus~ng te be serious. One win in those the ball past the Re~ Raider final four games will give Urlion goalie. But . an offst~es call that first winning season since against Bernhardt nullified the 195 s. play. · . Colgate finally scoted w1th 1:09 left in the half when Peruvian John Kluever converted a pass from Argentinian Roberto Burnquist. In tlte second ~:half Colgate repeatedly came close to tying the game, but Union never broke under the pressure .. Dave Kawecki's great save on a shot by Kluever and sonie spectcaular play by Wilder. highlighted the third quarter defensive effort. Early in the _fourth period Colgate star Dave Shapiro picked up a loose ball dropped by Sletteland. His shot appeared f,E:RRO Pharmacy 575NottSt .... One blodc frOilt II'OWttell Ocate Hamilton Beats Harriers 24-33 And Breaks Co.urse Record; State Meets Next by MARK MINDEL Mter rolling to four straight victories, the Union harriers ran into too big an obstacle last Friday:, in the form. of the undefeated Hamilton cross country team. The squad frotn Clinton, N.Y. placed four out of the first five runners to the tape but still had trouble beating the stubbor-n Garnet, 24-33. Union placed the next· six runners in front of Hamilton's flfth man. _ . . . Individually, Ken Judsen, with a 28:45 clockmg broke the Umon course record by 54 seconds; the_ record had been held by the Dutchmen's John l(earney~ Following Judsen was teammate Marc Peiron, timed in 28:55. . . Bryant Moeckel also broke the old- mark wJth the t•me C?f 29:08, placing first for Union, sand~iched bet.ween the ~our Contme~tal~. Moeckel, running very conststently this season, has _been Umon s first man three times in the team's five race!!. Freshman Kearner, who won the other two races, dropped back to seventh place . m 29;46, after dueling Judsen and Peiron for most of th~ race. T~.m McCabe, placing sixth, also nipped the old mark w•th a 29:34 timing. . . . . . . 29·51· Conrpleting the Garnet scorers were se~or Daye R1ce, . , freshman Jim Johnsori, 30:20; fresltman Jnn ~nnth, 30:33! and frosh Larry Heron,. 3~~49; Sop.homot~ )lo~_Nesblt~,. Jast years top man who had been working_ himself bal;k mto the (op five after a di$mal start~ agg{avated an old knee inJury . in the ,fir,st. mile and dropped out after running four and a half mtles. Th1s InJUry could hurt the team if Nesbitt cannot return to top fortn for the Albany Invitational this SatW'day and the State .Meet the following weekend. The team looms a top threat in both .tneets ~esp~te the. loss to Hamilton. In fact, Hamilton could lose to Umon m a ~1g event such as the State meet due to the great gap between thetr fourth and fifth man, over a minute and a half last Fri4ay. . . The Gamet have two reasonably easy dual meets rema1rung, against Oneonta this Wednesday at hon,te and versus Siena n~xt week. Two wins would give the team a SIX and two record, which would be the best record_ in over ten years. rushing. for 72 yards ar1d two oppon~nt. touchdowns and picking up an Since Union lost most of the Playing perhaps their finest game to· date t~e G~net junior varsity soccer team still lost to an artistic Oneonta squad 3-1 last Friday. Spotting the visitors an early goal .in the first -stanza, Union had a definite advantage in scoring opportunities in the third frame, with play seldom leaviJlg, Oneonta's zone. But misspent opportunities +----------------- · additil'nal 55 yards on pass serums e~ly in the P?te, ~he receptions. Garnet's talented offens1Ve line A-Z scored first on a four-yard was UJlable to do much with the run after a 42 .. yard, tO-play drive ball. Whenever they did manage but Mike Raab blocked the to get possession from out of the PAT, the first of two for him· serum, however. the Union backs that day. ran well. Union's 6nly lead then came With the Garnet trailing 12.0 when Westbrook raced 39 .Yards · early in ,the second half, Med on an off-tackle J!lay. Mt~cbe~l begiut to tire and the rnometurn added the extra pomt, makmg 1t · swung tp Union's side. The 7-6. . _ . . . serum began to outplay the Hobart respc;mded . wtth two Albany .forwards and Union quickies in the second quarter, a · • neutrali .. d the Dutchmen's DALE JEWELERC: ean:L~~ ·~!£.~ . • •. · .·. ·. •.• • . . · ·. · .. ; .. · •. I (} then spoiled the visitor's shutout ,...,_ bid b-y scoring Union's only goal. .._, The M«e You Know About ·Diamonds T~e Bette., We· Can Serve You C) Co.ach Bill Sc-anlon complimented Mark Whittlesey, John Petl$tein, ar;td_ goalie Tom · (The Spider} Bac:a for their outstan4ing games on defense. ffis sq~d took a l-4_ record into today's gatne against Col,pte. A 163 JAY _ST. () 372.0540 . ,_, ilust Off Sta~ St. . Fnoe'Patldng tn,lk-at Yues, I 1hurt.. 'til 9 - - We for po En vir~ night. In; Institt Elect1 Schet Envir~ is the indl1s1 menac Ac,c major realize nearl) over 1 six ye cause smok1 contJ abate: invol' pollu1 so phi: He \man have majol cities, peopl In II pollu1 those the 'i probl chara being levels poilu· He of ail indus althc respo pollu Luik the r needc publi large: mov€ priva Inc its e1 three mucl de vel syste proj~ invol pollu fuels deere there v will cons· in tl hom1 cone busi1 woul regie Tl elimi traru facili dist.a he 11 tows with be co riddi polh to \env V; and used pol11 A~

Founded at Union College' 1877 Vol. fot, No. 11 SCHENECTADY,.N'EW YORK OCTOBER 29,1971 . PR:CE TWENTY CENTS Van lu ik Speaks On Air Pollution Mr. Amos Elom, noted · Israeli .author, c.olumnist .and · writer, will speak on Tuesday evening, Noven:tber · 2 at 8 p.m. in SS 016. Elan will . · deliver a talk on the topic, · · \Israel come$ of age: The · Perspective of the Modem· Sabra.\ A Time To Strive For Humanization We .are all air polluters and each of l!S must pay at least $100 a year for pollution controls, Frank van Luik, vice president for enfPneering 1 Environment One, Corp., told a· small audience of engineers Tuesday • Elom's talk is p~trt of the college's lecture and concert convocation series. His most recent work is the current controversial best$eller, \The Israelis.\ The taUt by Mr. American families and their children are in deep trouble, dur to utter neglect for their welfare on the part of the government, says Dr. Urie Bronfenbrenner, Professor of Developmental Psychology at nigbt. · re!lponsible for the pollution In a talk co-sponsored by the reports given on the local evening Institute for Electrical and news programs. Cornell University. The eminent Child Electronics Engineers and In conclusion, van Luik said Schenectady Protect Your that pollution research can also Environment, he said, \Poilution benefit the rural areas ·of the is the unwanted partner of our coUntry. The development· of ind\U&trial way of living. It is a atmospheric conditions perfectly menace, but not a disaster;\ suited for raising crops can he . 'Elom will be followed by a reception in the Social · Sciences Building, sponsored by the Hillel at Union. . Everyone is welcome to the reception. Psychologist, addressing an audience of over 300 in SSOI6 on Wednesday night, discussed the problem of \Making Human Beings Human.\ According to Bronfenbrenner, a person is human when he cares, and when he does not care he is alienated - he rejects and is rejected by society. · According to van Luik, the f;lccomplished through pollution major point which very few. control. realize is that pollution levels in nearly every city have decreased over the past few years. Five or six years ago, he said, the major cause of pollution was visible smoke, and most pollution control involved smoke abatement. Now, the problem involves invisible .gases, and pollution control must be more· sophisticated. He characterized pollution as a \manmade problem which can have no natural solution,\ citing major pollUtion centers as large cities, resulting from many people living close to each other. In large industrial cities, the pollution levels can be 1000 times those of rural areas. Every city in the world has an air pollution problem, van Luik said, but he characterized Schenectady as being far below the national levels in nearly every form of pollution. · He outlined the primary causes of ait pollution as transportation, industry and power generation, although. transportation is responsibie for over ha1f of the pollutants. Cdnsequently, van Luik sees this as the area where the most radical reforms will be needed. He urged a return to public transportation in the larger cities, as well as a movement by the ~ities to restrict private vehicles. Industry, he said, has revised its entire .outlook during the last three years, and has invested much capital and effort in developing cleaner operating systems. In addition, recent project in New York City which involved a changeover from high pollution fuels to low pollution fuels netted a 50 per cent decrease in some pollution levels . there. Van Luik predicted that there will also be changes in the construction of cities, as well as in the interior makeup of our homes. The city will consist of a concentrated area containing business and industry, wbicb woUld be very near residential regions. This would practically elitninate the need for private transportation, since all the city facilities would he within walking dist.ance from the home. Further, he noted, there will be a trend toward total climate control within the home, ·as more people become aware of the means of ridding the indoor atmosphere of pollutants in the air and choose to make their homes \environmental castles.\ Van Luik described methods and machi.nery currently being used by his company to monitor pollution levels in the Tri-Cities Area. Such instrumentation is Those who are alienated in our S • • d society, Bronfenhrenner charged, .. Clence flctio:n: I ·eas ~~:cri~~~~:n. 0 ~er;~?:E~~at~:d distress.\ The groups most Of Consistent Relevance ~~ec~::ra~n;~~:~hs~ 0 ~~:~~::: .. the most important of the by HOWARD STONE neglected groups are the children. Speaking to an overflow audience .at Memorial Chapel Tuesday The United States, he charged, morning, Isaac Asimov, possibly the person most closely related to the ranks thirteenth in the world in ideal of the Renaissance man in our time, discussed his true love, infant mortality, much higher science fiction\ one of his own early stories, a than many countries at lower Asimov first dealt with the description of a journey to the stages of development. conception of science fiction as moon written in 1939 . The There has been, he explained, an escape. While many critics of important point of the story was a steady decrease in a:ll spheres of the form see it as nothing more that it raised for the first time the interaction between parents and than absurd fantasizing, Asimov their cbildren in this country, and · question or possibility of public asserted th~t \not only is science opposition to technological the vacuum created by the fiction a literature of ideas, it is advance, long before the current absence of the parents must be the only literature of ideas contr()v.ersy over governmental filled by the child's peer group. consistently relevant to today.\ spending priorities was even Parents have become less Continuing in this vein, he dreamed of. It is for reasons such affectionate and less firm in attacked other fonns of literature as these that Asimov values disciplining their children, and as being so overly concerned With science fiction as the most the result has been pessimistic \eternal verities\ and with valuable literary form. children and children unable to rehashing the same things that cope with the roles they are later have always been written about, that they have very little value now. Science fiction takes the , stand that what is important is not the concept of \eternal verities\ but rather \the continuing fact of change.\ Asimov proceeded to give examples and anecdotes which deomonstrated his point. In 1941, while everyone was seeing and discussing World War 1l as another in the age old struggles between democracy and totalitarianism .• Robert Heinlein, a noted science fiction writer, forecast the harnessing of nuclear power and its implications for changing world politics into a stalemate where the great opposing powers, no matter how strong their public verbal invective, would continue talking, ''politely,\ about important world issues. This, according to Asimov, is true because ''wat now is not only homicide, it is also stli.cide.\ The coming of the Industrial Revolution accelerated change to the point where people could actually see that things were different and Would continue to change, sometbiilg that the old world could not see. While population increases, wars, and pollution were all controlled and controllable, the situation has rapidly changed. Asimov emphasized that \we live in a finite world,\ a world which can be destroyed in a very short time, unless we realize what is happening and act accordingly. Specifically concerning over~ population, Asimov declared that \mdtherhood is no longer glorious, it is a danger. As a final example of the foresight of science fiction, Asimov used Peace Corps, VISTA Join In Union Recruiting Efforts For the first time Peace Corps and VISTA will be recruiting together on the Union campus. Both Peace Corps and VISTA are now .part of a new agency called ACTION and joint recruiting is one of the most visible effects of the merger. \V.ISTA and Peace Corps are still the same,\ observed Travis Gamble, former Peace Corps Volunteer, \and they will retain their own identities.\ On the Union campus, the VISTA and Peace Corps rep is especially interested in speaking to engineers, although students with other skill backgrounds can also apply. According to Gamble, Union has been a good producer of volunteers for both VISTA and Peace Corps in the past. \Still most of these applications come in through the mail and not at the recruiting table. We're hoping to change that this year since we'll be located near the flow of student traffic.\ The representative will be orl campus Monday, November I, in the library. Interested students may stop by the booth anytime during the day between 9:00 a.m. and 4:00 p.m. Gamble will show a film and hold informal discussion at 4:00 p.m. in the Social Science Auditorium. Sym-phony Program Includes Balada, Brahms and Bruch The Albany Symphony will present the second subscription series concert on Saturday, NovelJlber 13th, at The Palace Theatre, 8:30p.m. Julius Hegyi will conduct the Symphony in a program including Leonardo Balada's Guernica~ Brahms, Symphony No. 2, D Major; and Bruch's Violin Concerto, G. Minor, with Leo Mahigian, concertmaster with the Albany Symphony as soloist. Mr. Mahigian first joined the Albany Symphony Orchestra in 1939. During the !lecond world war he spent three years in the service, then played for three years with the Denver Symphony and for a season at Tanglewood. Upon hiS return to Albany, Mr. Mahigian again joined the violin section of the Albany Symphony and in 1968 he became concert master. Other groups that Mr. Mahigian has played with are the Northeastern New York Philharmonic, Tanglewood, the Denver Symphony, the Symphony String Quartet and 1ast season was concertmaster with the Lake George Light Opera Company. Tickets may be obtained by calling the symphony office 465-4755 or sending a self-addressed envelope to the Albany Symphony Orchestra, D & H Building, Room 26, Albany, New York 12207. Student tickets are Sl.SO. called on to fulfill, he said. Bronfenbrenner cited statistics which show that juvenile delinquency is increasing faster than is the population of children in America. At this rate, one out of nine youngsters will be in juvenile court before the age of 18. The major problem underlying these realities is that in order to fulfill their responsibilities as adults in the community, parents have virtually no time to spend with their children. The fact is, said Bronfenbrenner, that children need people to become human. Without human interaction, the child will not develop his tolerance, cooperation, compassion, ability or identity. We are thus faced with a failure of the family to function properly, and a failure of society to support the family's needs as a social unit. Bronfenbrenner's solution to the problem, of which he says many are not aware, centers about the Day Care issue. Day care as it exists today, though, would not be an adequate answer~ He outlined a plan to improve day care centers to encourage participation on the part of parents - the only way he thinks they can be a success. Parents are needed to plan the centers, as well as to execute the plans when they are realized.· Bronfenbrenner emphasized the important role of .women in reaching a solution to the problem. The fact, he said, that the young women of America are in revolt has resulted in the isolation of their children. The answer he proposed called for an \enhancement of the status and power of women in all walks of life.\ The mother should work part time, he said, but while she is away there must be someone to care for the child. Other areas for improvement discussed by Bronfenbrenner included making \upbringing and character development\ integral parts of the American educational program, as well as providing for the establishment of a \commission for children and their families\ to examine the shortcomings of existing facilities available to the children of this country. He concluded by proposing as the ultimate solution, .. a setting in which young and old can sit and talk.\ The evil and the cure, he said, lie not with the victims, but with the social institutions which produce the inadequacy. Freshmen should see their Faculty Advisors beginning Wednesday, November 3 throng1l Tuesday the 9th~ for the purpose of completing winter and spring term course schedules. Appointments may · be necessary, and some departments may make special arrangements for handling advising; consequently, freshmen are uraed to promptly check with ad 'Visors.

Page 2 CONCORDiENS!S, October 29, i971 O!nnrnr Managing Editor Doug Wong lltttt!ll!l Features ·Editor Matthew Swartz To the Editof: At a recent Student Senate meeting, it was brought to the , • Asst. Managbig Editor Gail w. Goodman Editor·in·Chief Louis S~ Snitkoff News Editor · Howard Stone Spom Editor George S. Bain attention of those members present that there exists some . dissatisfaction on campus over Business Manager the actioQ.s of the Disciplinary Joseph r. Achenbaum Committee concerning· the events. Photography Editors Jody Saslow National Advt. Manager· of last Spring. Although there Charles Long Mark Shulman was no indication of the extent of ·~~~. William Holleran· Mike Meserole Assoc. Photography Editor ·subscriptions Manager this dissatisfaction, a motion was Dave Conrey · Michael Hurley _ _ put forth and passed that STAFF: Mark U~an, Jim Smith, BJuce Tureeamo, Bob Johnson, Jim members of the Disciplinary R.ostenberg, Chris MandeviDe, tFrQkDeL~da, Les ·G~Idman, Committee participating in the, Rosemary Rice, Don Kaplan, Rita Morandi, Barbara McDonald, Patty decisions of last spring be invited Sipe, Richard Kern, Gary (Leapin') Leidennan, Marty Berman, Mark to attend the next Student Senate . Mindei.LAi Reisch, Jerry Macher, Joe Monkofski. · . _ mc;:eting. Published Tuesdays and Fridays during the schoal year by the student The role of the Student Senate body of Union College, Schenectady, N.Y., National Advertising on this proposal is one of both Representative, National Educational Advertising Service, Inc., College interest and concern over the Publishers Representative, 360 lexi11gton Ave., N.Y.C. Editorial office, functioning of the Disciplinary Old Gym, Union College. Publication Office, The World Publications. Committee,· the Student Senate 771 State Street, Schenectady, N.Y. 12307, 346-2356, Entered in the s h d ffi s nd Cl M ·1 M s b · · 2 will not sit in judgment of those c enecta y ,EE~t .Q_Ice as eco ass . a1 · atter. u scrtpt1on 0 . metn.ber·s .of the· Co· ·mm·I•ttee w· ho cents a copy. $8 a year delivered anywhere in the-United States.· .. '--------------------------..J choose to attend the meeting, but Disclpl~ne r alks There are now many on campus who are dissatisfied with the actions of the Discipline Committee concerning the events of la~t Spring. However, there is equal ground for dissatisfaction with some of the methods proposed for reevaluation of the decision, as well as with the way the issue is being handled by some of those who differ with the committee's conclusions. · The Student Senate must first be commended for its decision to invite members involved in the Disciplinary process to the next Senate meeting. If enough students who are concerned about the decisions ate present, some meaningful dialogue might occur. If, as has happened in the past, the majority of those· who are concerned choose not to be there, nothing significant will transpire. The Discipline issue is one which should be of primary concern for us all. It is symbolic of the question. \Where can ~ the line be drawn between acceptable student dissent and· unacceptable student opposition to administrative policy?\ Because of the nature of this question, and in consideration of the one-year trial of the Governance Report, it might be wise for concerned students to organize themselves and to develop a sensible method for discussion of th:e problem with those responsible for the decisions. For example, it is dubious that a \unilateral reevaluation\ is necessary, as one student suggests. In fact, a unilateral reevaluation could ultimately lead to a whitewash, this time perpetrated by students who, in a lack of total understanding of the mechanisms behind the Disciplinary action, have blatantly attacked the decision-making process of the administration on the basis of its very existence. The real issue here should no longer be a consideration of the value or validity of takeover as a means of student dissent. We must be primarily concerned with the process by which the administration deals with such tactics. And a reasonable evaluation of these processes cannot be made in ignorance of the processes themselves. This demands a more than unilateral examination of the disciplinary action. Although the campaign against the Disciplinary Committee is still in the early stages, it is not devoid of those features which are normally associated with polarizations on this campus. It is unfortunate that any discussion of administrative policy or decision is not complete without a little name calling and rhetoric. The process which really seems to be arbitrary is the assignment of adjectives to describe the disciplinary action. It would also seem to make sense that the student plaintiffs should be prepared with specific questions regarding the mechanisms involved, rather than with vague and destructive generalizations attacking the alleged \capricious methods used in assessing these penalties.\ Such a charge is self-defeating, for it holds no means of eliciting a responsible answer. The answers sought by these students can only be as meaningful and devoid of verbosity as are the questions they pose. In the hope that the students will indulge themselves in a meaningful examination of the disciplinary actions, the administrators present at the Student Senate meeting are urged to assume an outlook which encompasses the idea that an improvement in the political atmosphere here at Union can come from those on both sides of the fence. L.S.S. CONCERT FRIDAY 8 P.M.. NOV. 5 Proctors Theater In Troy ARLO GUTHRIE Tickets. $5. All Seats Reserved Tickets: At Van Curler's Record's in Albany Mail Reservations: Ted Bayly, 74 Eagle St., Troy rather will attempt to clarify the framework of laws and precedents that the Disciplinary Committee followed in making their decisions. At the Senate meeting will be those individuals who have e:x;pressed their dissatisfaction to the Student Senate as weD as the large number of senators whose primary concern is one of understanding the decisions for last year of the Disciplinary Committee. Wit~ these goals in mind, the Student Senate extends an invitation to the members of the Disciplinary Committee to attend its next meeting. Thomas ·Rembetski Student Senate Member Open letter to the Administration: A unilateral reevaluation of the blatantly unfair punishment meted out to those involved in last year's disciplinary hearings is in order. I raise the following questions: 1) Why were the more •• t . \ (' no onous . t..e. vocal) participants in the Administra- tion Building takeover. prosecuted while lesser-known members, several whom were interviewed by Reid Russel (last week's Concordy's), were not even tried? 2) I took the stand on my .own behalf and stated my reason for occupying the building as journalistic. Why was I fined while one Mr. Bruce Husten, a student at Union last year whose story in the Schenectady Gazette the following day was typed in the Administration Building on the day of the takeover, was not even tried? 3) Why were the people against whom the . president of the studen( body, David Robbins, testified, fined, while Mr; Robbins himself, Whose constant occupation of the building was The most Meaningful Semester you'll ever spend ..• could be the one on WorW CamP.US Afloat Sailjng Feb. 1972 to Afrita and the Orient Through a transfer format, more than 5;000 students from 450 campuses have participated for a seme$ter in this unique program in inter- national education. WCA Will broaden your horizons, literally and figuratively ••• and give you a better chance to make it-meaningfully---in this-changing world. You'll study at sea with an experienced. cos· niopolitan faculty, and then during port stops you'll study the world itself. You'll discover that no matter ·how foreign and far-away, you have a lot in common with people of other lands. WCA isn't as expensive as you might think; we've done our best to bring it within reach of most college students. 'Write today for free details. . . . TEACHERS: Summer travel with. credit for teach. ers and administrators. admittedly unauthorized and illegal, was not even tried? 4) Why were Dennis Peskin, myself, and Guy Sacerdoti found .,guilty of the exact s~e charge but fined $150, $2S, and .$0 respectively? (Note that a charge of ·~organizing a takeover\ was . not brought against Mr, Peskin.) , 5) One student was fined for his part· in the Computer Center takeover based upon a picture taken of him outside of the bqildin$ during the occupation. Why is it that another student, whose picture appeared in a recent issue of the Union College Chronicle showing hirn outside the Center during that same period, was not even tried? 6}. Why was a Black student fined when his total involvement with the takeover was a. five- minute visit to the Computer Building during which he asked tliat OCCUp!U!tS )eave? 7) Why was another Black fined only for advising the occupants, after obtaining legal counsel; that their occupation was ill~gal? There are two possible answers to the last two .questions: a) The Disciplinary Conhnitt~e did not believe testimonygi'ven by the \guilty\ parties. b:) It felt that the actions of those two students warr!l:nted fines in accord. with those whose occupation was continUous au_d in support .of certain demands. As a result of the whitewash perpetrated in less than one week, albeit finals week in June, by the D~sciplinary Committee(s), it is my belief that all moneys collected by tile Administration as a result .of said trials be refunded. In most cases, students could ill afford the fines.. All guilty sentences shoUld be repealed and all · money collected returned without further delay due tQ the aribitrary and ca·pricious methods used in assessing these penalties. · Gary Leiderman '73 ' BLITHER · Wanted: Volunteer assistants to work in The Haunted House... a project of the Schenectady Museum. Throuib Halloween .(when else?). Interested? Call Mrs. McCurdy 370-3800. .... * • The Union College Big Brother and Big Sister Program would like to remind its members of the Halloween Picnic in Jackson's Garden on Saturday, October 30, at one o'clock.. Members are urged to ask their little brother or sister to wear costumes and to make arrangements beforehand, * * * * ' Anybody desiring to contribute toward the alleviation of famine conditions in Pakistan and East India should contact David Rice or David Eng at 310 South (370:.0363) or David Toliver at Phi Sigma Kappa {346- 9735). * * * * Anyone interested in working in Senator George McGoverrfs presidential campaign should contact Neil Kane, 377-4734. * * * * The Brass Choir will rehearse Monday Nov. I, at 7 p.m. in HU 019. * * * * All students interested in The Jazz Workshop will working with youngsters on . fehearse Monday Nov. 1 at 4:30 probation or simply interested in · m HU 019. the program are urged to contact * * * * John Calender, Phi Gamma There will be an important Delta, 346-6597, or Marie me~;:ting for all freshman Bednar, Bronner House, 370- basketball candidates on Sunday 0274. nigllt, October 31, at 7:30 sharp * '* * * in the Block U Room, upstairs in There will ·be a meeting for Alumni Gym. those interested in starting a * * * * Philosophy Club on Thursday, There Will ·be an important November 4 at 8 p~m. in the Hale meeting of all Biology majors, House Lounge. Monday night,· November 1, in * * * * Hale House LoUnge at 7:30. AT HAMBURGER IISIAUUNT 84 A1 'Jem was was the com] avoit had exer1 inte cens, deal in r1 thai Volll Crea H< be cc word beyo1 Airpl Sine~ last Spen work Purp Mart left t' Gro<J sorel: is JCJ drurr wors1 that the matt1 not 1 Kant with male Co vi have own Stars is th Balh: years In that Socic rema she I has Unhl only ..... St1 of c repre Unh Prof~ here 3:00 l No infort returt 1971. all of so bel We corr stor get We exci The fror prec liab fact not to 1 tl;l~l Nul care tod1 var. and add tior you bra dis! _gua Wh

Ba.rlc: Say Goodbye to the Airplane by BOB S~ERRY Ther«l j.S v¢ry little of th.e intricate However, she quickly rev~rses harmony found on earlier herself with \Never Argqe With a At the end _of last summer, a·l·bums, although this is German if Yor're Tired . or ·Jefferson Airplane's latest effo~ . partically due to the absence of. European Song~·, (I'm not was released. :Entitled Bark9 It an effective male lead. Kantner, kidding) which with one was released on. Gtunt Records, Ka·ukonen and Covington exception is the worst song rve the Airplanes ne:w recording simply dd not have voices : ever heard. The dobious ·honor of company: Grunt was formed . to capable of singing leads, leaving 1 worst song goes to .anoth:r avoid the .censorship that RCA Grace to sing melodies with them 1 Bark song, .Joey Coymston s had previpusly attempted to in order to cover any notes that \Thunlc\, which combmes the exercisr over the band, and it is · · they are incapable ·of .reaching. . auther's amateu.rish 'l~rics, bad interesting that, with·ou:t This, coupled with the fact that 1 music, and homble votce. These censors~p. Bark emer,~es a good her voice has grown noticeably last tw~ ~ongs have to be heard dea.l tame. r {botb .pohtica.lly and • 1 . weaker, is one to the weakn. ess.es ! to .be bebe~.ed, m.~re words could in respect to obscene lan~ua~e) . f:trst noted in the album. neverdescnbe·. JUSt now awful than Jefferson Starship, : The only parts of Bark that theyare. . . Volunteers, or even Crown of live up to what one expects from · The tema~nmg songs on ~he Creation. Jefferson Airplane. are Jorina album .. are rather ~ondescnp~. However, while Batk cannot K.aukonen's lead gu1tar and Jack One, .Pretty as :You Feel, be considered offensive word by Casady's bass. While attempting could have been & . really pretty word, ·tycicallya,ndJD.Usicallyitis nothing. revolutionary, song in the hands of Marty beyond a 'doubt Jefferson K.aukonen's acoustic and ele«;:tric Balin, J:?ut again Covington does Airplane's most offensive album. guitar work a~n proves him to his b~t , to drag it down. Since · Volunteers, the Airplane's be one of the most capable Kaukonen s tln:ee songs are last group. .effort, drummer guitarists in rock music. casady nothing great, but they do Spencer Dryden left. the band to is· one of the few musicians provide the only easy listening on work with The Riders of · the generally agreed upon as tops in the album. Three pleasant songs Purple Sage, and lead vocalist his field and he manages to do not make an album good. Marty Balin, the groups founder~ again de~onstrate his incredible The only feeling one .has after left tQ sing. with a band called ability on Bark. leaving th~ album _(astde from Grootna. Both musicians are The individual ,songs on Bark ,relief that tts over) 1s hope that sorely missed. Replacing Dryden range from good to downright Balin and. Dryden Will somed~y is Joey Covington, a competent horrible. Only one of Paul re.turn, and that every<;me wtll drummer but probably one of the Kantner's compositions, \Rock stop screv:i~g around .and get worst composers ·and vocalists and Roll Island~, is really gQod back .to wntmg and playmg great that rock music (or music since enough to he recorded, and all music. the dawn of time, for that three (including \When the Earth matter) bas ever seen. Balin has Moves Again\ and \War not been replaced; instead, Paul Movie\) sound· like songs not Kantner and Jornia Kaukorten, considered good enough to be with Joey Covington · ·share the included on Blows Against tbe male vocals. While all (excepting Empire. Kantner appears. to be Covington) can carry a tune, and on a kick which couples very have been rather good on their simplistic music with insane, own individual efforts (Jefferson oftenclumsy, lyrics. Starship and Hot Tuna), neither -\Crazy Miranda\ by Gr~ce is the driving, lyrical singer that Slick, would be a rather mce Balin had been throughout the song except that jt is a blatant years. . . copy of \Greasy Heart\ which In an interview with Rex Reed appeared on Crown of Creation. that appeared on the Great She does attempt to redeem Society album, Grace Slick herself by writing \Law Man\ remarked that over the years that which by dint. of its great power she has been singing, her voice and reasonably decent lyrics has been getting weaker· takes credit as ·the only really Unhappily, her vocals on Bark good song on the album. only heJp to prove her correct. Students should note a change of date for the law school representative from Boston University Law School. Professor Shilfon Krantz will be here (SS 216) from 9:00 a.m. to 3:00 p.m. on November 10. \' \' \' * Notice to students. Please be Graubart' & S9ns m~y run small ads, but they have big val-ues. ~:·.--:. ·::-.. ~ ... ... ~..;,~ .. \'-2\'\ .. '7 . ......... ~~·· . \'--'~.; .• Sobeoec~dy's famous diamond allop, Tonight, Oct. 29th, and · tonight only, the Union College Coffeehouse will present, together in the Old Chapel, Miss BoQnie Raitt and Pat Webb, the \Tennessee Pete Seeger.\ Pat, whe> refers to himself, as a ''guitarist, singer, mandolist, humorist, and ,composer,\' hails from Nashville, but has appeared in a variety of coffeehouses in New York. / Bonnie is making one of her final appearances before. beginning a concert tour with Randy Newm~. She played in Central Park this summer, as well as making television appearances. Bonnie .and Pat wiD be performing from 8:30 p.m. till midnight tonight in the Old Chapel (above the· 'skellar). . Admission this week is Sl.SO. ·CONCORDIENSIS, October 29,1971 Page3 THE EPITOME OF DESIRE byMATTHEW SWARTZ . . \ \Yowi.a yowza, yowza ... Welcome to the Dance of De~tmy, screams Gig Young as Rocky, the dance marathon entrepreneur m the movie \They Shoot Horses, Don't They?\ Rocky co~ld not be found ·at last Sunday 1 s Tour de Union, but I sw~a.r I h~ard ~m. . . . Undoubtedly. some of you are not ~~am1liar With t~s bnUiant motion picture starring Jane Fonda, .Mtchael Sarra2;m, Red Buttons, Susannah York and the inimitable Young, so allow me to do wh.at I can to summarize a f:tlm I've seen five times. During tho~e glonous !'30's when individual suffering provided a source of ent~rtamment for the comfortable and a feeling of security for• the suffenng themselves (i.e. they knew that they were not alone), dance marathons were the craze. Couples would flock to these tests of endurance and dance for months at a time not only for the prize money ~warded to the couple lasting the longest, but mainly for the food provided to the cont~stants who would otherwise starve out in the streets. The senseless VIole~ce and savage competition are easily imagined. In the fib:~, couples nse and fall to the amusement and emotion of the. people m ~e gallery. This, then, is the setting for Jane Fonda and Mtcha~l Sarrazm as. they confront this microcosm of the real world on then way to ultimate frustration and tragedy. . Before I arrived to witness the waving of a ten ~all~n hat startmg the race, flashes of myself and all the other d1m'Y1ts presen~ as \spectators seated in some old .dance hall wa~chmg hypnotl~ed automotons moving their feet in a \dance of destmy\ set my rrund whirling. 1 stood anticipati.ng the .~orst. Fortunately. to say the least, my visions of someone senou:sly IDJUred were not made r~al. ~Inste~d, legs were scraped and heads were run over and knocked With s1ckemng impact against curbs. People were damn lucky. But the tortured looks and disappointment ·of not be~ting someone _YoU felt you ~e~e bett.er ·than, perhaps the greatest evil of a~, persisted. .Will thi~ mfan~de display continue in years to come until sameone wmds up m tractt.on with a broken back? Can achievement motive be that strong? No, 1t's fun, you say - Good, clean, competitive spi~t. . . \The management cautions that no wagenng ts perrrutted. But ... y.ou can always cheer on your favorite couple. And all thes: wond~rful ktds deserve your cheers, folks. Because each one of t~em IS fi~htmg d?w? pain, weariness ... struggling to keep going... battling to Win. And Isn t that the American Way, Folks?'' . . The kind of spirit that keeps people returrung to roller der.~I:s and those wrestling matches you see on Channel five. Fun and spmt that should more aptly be classified as sadism. . If you saw the movie, you remember the scene when Jane Fonda 1s paired with Red Buttons for a cutthroat elimir:tation race. Buttons' heart fails and he dies during the course of th1s scene, but Fonda, propelled by what can only be te~ed the survi~al drive, sl!ngs t~e corpse over her back and drags 1t over the firush to barely avotd elimination, Wasn't it the anchor man of one of th~ teams. who, after taking the final turn at a speed that proved excessively mmdle.ss ~nd contorting the steering mechanism of his vehicle beyond func~10mng. picked up the usel~ss bicycle, tried to ride the wreck to. the fin.1s~,. fell once again and eventually dragged the heap to an admirable ftmsh of about seventh to\the cheers of an understanding crowd? STEREO - 4-Channel Sound Now at your Music Headquarter LAFAYETTE RADIO-ELECTRONICS 141 ERIE BLVD. 346-6111 informed that textbooks will be returned as of November 15, 1971. If you have not purchased all of your textbooks, please do so before the return date. \' \' \' \' . {for tbree·geaeratlODS) 1663ay-St. THREE UNiON GR~UAT£S I~ .f.~~!.L V, GOING OUT tC ::t c ::;_C :::# e · #.c == c· . I-CONTRACEPTIVES ~privaiely? we believe your private life. should be your. own. And when i~ comes to buyi·ng contraceptives, the hassi~ ·m a .crowded druf store isn't exactly private. So Vfe've made at possa~le for you o get nonprescription contracepj:tves through the matl ~~i~~ci~~~: !~aTJ!g~~ ~~~~~';?~i!t~~~li~ea~fJe~~;:g .. gt ~~~dlf::::S~ They'r; better than anything you can get m a dr.ut!'lsto;e. lm~ort~ from Britain they're lighter, thinner, tnore eXCI ·mg o use, ~Q. precision manufacturing. a~d te~8 t~yc~rk~u~o~a~ela~~~~ :a~:: liable as any condom anyw ere. e ' 'th b t) d NUForm facturer of men's contraceptives, ·F~therhte. <. e .. es .ant. . d not onl conform to exacting USFDA specxfxcatlons, _.bu · are, m~ e to Briti~h Government Standard 3704 as well. We thmk you ll hke th~~ur illustrated brochure tell$ you all about :F'e~herlite and NUF rm And about seven othe;r American brands wh1ch we . h11ve carefully selected from the more than one hundred kinds available today. And we explain the differences. We also have nonprescription fo~m for. women and a wide variety of books and pamphlets on b1rth control, sex, population, and ecology. . . · want · ore information? It's free. Just send us your name and address. B'f:tter still, for. one dollar we'll send you all tbe inform&• tion plus two Fetherlite samples and one NuF\)rm. For fout r doldlars '11 et the bl'ocnure plus three each of flVe differen con om ~~~nds 8 oncluding bOth Imports). All correspondence and. mer~han­ dise is shipped in a plain cover to protect Y;OUr ~riV'acy, an · we .guarantee your money back if you're not satisfied WJth our products. Why walt? . . . POPULATION PLANNING ASSOC. u 2 3 0 BOx 2556·1J, Chapel Hill, N. C. 2'1'514 · II. Gentlemen: Please send me:--· _Your free brochure and price list at no obligation, -· _.Three samples for .• 1. -· --· Deluxe sampler package for· $4. Name --·--------~---~- Address CitY---- State _ _......_ Zip•-..··-------- OF BUSINESS SALE All Merehandise Must Go SAVINGS UP TO 70% LEVI PANTAGON at Broadway & Stata

Page4 CONCORDIENSIS, October 29, 1971 Concordy ~ports Depleted Grid Visits Ephs by LEAPIN nursing a sore sh()ulder, but But Coach Everling preferred As if the stigma of a f()ur-game coach Everling is. keeping his t.o sing the praise of tackle Howie losing streak were not enough of fingers crossed. Also Benedict, whose 35 tackles a barrier to hurdle, the Garnet questionable, due to a . sore represe,nted an even more football eleven must play shoulder, is fullback Curtis spectacular feat. Benedict is a Williams on Saturday with a Rowe. Stan o•Brien will take lineman, but he will be moved to thoroughly depleted squad. Westbrook's place, teaming with the 1inebacking position Game time is set for 1:30 in Bruce Mathias in the halfback Saturday, one of a series of Williamstown, Mass. slots, and behind them, there is realignments necessitated by the Soccer Wins Fifth, Clinches Winning Year A ruling by the New England no one. lack of Garnet players. Small College Athletic Coach Everling, asked to William.s' halfback Ed The Union College soccer team clinched their first winning ~!!ason since 1952 with a solid 3-l vict9ry over Kings Point Wednesday on tbe loser's field. The win upped the Dutchmen's record to 5-1-1 on the season with three games left on the slate. Conference prohibits Union pinpoint the difference between D'Arata, another in the series of freshmen from competing in the his winning team of the first two great runners to whom the fimtl three games. And so, three weeks and the one that has Dutchmen have been subjected, defensive regulars and leading dropped four straight, singled has scored eleven touchdowns in scorer, rusher, and receiver Ron out the RPI game as a setback to his last three games. Split end Westbrook are excluded from the team morale. John Parker isH 3'\ weighs 200 starting lineup. Additionally, a The Alfred game was \one of pounds, and is a talented rash of unexpected injuries poses those things,\ and Union did receiver. Union may be in for a numerous patchwork problems creditably well against the long Saturday of football. to luckless coach Gerry Everling. Rochester Yellowjackets. But an The Ga.rnet played .~ particularly steady game, handing the inferior Mariners with relative ease, except for the second quarter. But Union only led by 1-0 at the end of the half. Co-captain Art Fraser registered that tally on a penalty Together, Westbrook a_nd end endless stream of mistakes in Jerry Cuffey have gained 500 of Troy left the squad feeling the Dutchmen's 825 yards disheartened, and the defense passing. Cuffey, with 196 yards broke down after a good struggle on 15 catches, got kneed in the for half of the Hobart clash. head in the Rochester game three In practice this week, the first- weeks ago, and his persistent year coach has stressed morale, headaches have worsened to the instilling the \We can win, they point where he has been told to can be had~ attitude into his sit out the game this week. troops. Coach Eve,rling plans to start The depleted Dutchmen Geoff Walker, and may use Gary defense, with linebacker Ken Lauver, who has been Grey also out for the season, will outstanding at end in freshmen have its work cut out against the games, in conjunction with Ephmen, who have averaged Walker to take full advantage of better than 36 points a game. the fine passing attack the Garnet Linebacker Tom Anacker did his has generated, especially in the job last week, with a hand in 37 second half of the Hobart game. tackles, and, was named to the Offensive guard Rich Burrell is weekly ECAC Division IJ,I squad. S~:Huiil.t Weekend . Wandering:s - with WOODY We ali should be genuinely excited, since the Union soccer team bas now posted its first winning season in who-knows-how many years. The Garnet's 3-l victory at Kings Point on Wednesday gave them a 5-1-1 record in 1971 with only three games left, and that assures them of a Winning season. - But suddenly no one is sure how long it has been since the last winning season. Up. until last week, the last winning mark had been reportedly set in 1958, but Monday the UCol Sports Information Department announced that we have not had a winning soccer team since 1952! Which sounds more impressive? A 12-year losing streak, or an 18- year one? Soccer is the world's most popular sport, and Union finally has a team worth watching and enjoying. The squad's next two home games are the final games of the year, next week against Hartford - on Tuesday - and Saturday with Albany State. So go over to Daley Field and cheer the team, but don•t sit in the Harr'iers Defeat Oneo:nta, T y i·ng Dual Meet Reco.rd by MINNER The Union cross country team tied the most victories in a dual meet season record, Wednesday with their fifth win in their last six meets, by beating a mediocre Oneonta squad, 20-39. Union is now 5-2. The team was looking past this meet to the big Albany Invitational, this Saturday, and was startled when someone mentioned right before the meet that Oneonta was tough this season. But running .not rhetoric competition between this year's proves who is able to do well one--two combination. over the five-plus mile college Following the Kearney- circuit courses, and the Garn~t Moeck-el duo came Union's Tim had alr~ady pulled away after the McCabe, Jim Johnson, and Dave two nule mark. Although the Rice, in places four, five, and six, individual winner was from respectively. Johnson's Oneonta, with a 29: 16 clocking, roommate, Jim Smith lost a dash Union then stormed the finish to the. finish line to Oneonta's line with the next five runners. second man and settled for 8th Freshman John Kearney place. Mark Slavin and Larry fought for the lead with Heron placed llth and 13th for Oneonta's first man but became the Garnet. tight in the stretch run and had After the Albany meet to settle for second place with a Saturday, the Dutchmen race 29:19 timing, his best .of the year. Siena next Wednesday and run Bryant Moeckel grabbed the next in the· big State · Meet the spot, marking the third time out following weekend. Prospects are of six races that Kearney has out- good for the Garnet, despite the distanced the \Moegler.\ With news that veteran Bob Nesbitt three races left, one or the other has been lost for the year with a will have to be the first man for knee ailment and hernia Union more times than his operation. teammate. But it is a friendly Fraternity Football Frolics stands. Instead, stand around the edge of the field - at the level of the by MARTY BERMAN action- and learn a little about soccer. Understand why it is a game of short and accurate passes and not kick-and-run. · They run. onto the field completely psyched out, ready fQr the You'll hear the players yell to each other _ they do that now _ and \game.\ There is no crowd to roar their arrival, maybe a half-dozen at the officials and at their coach. you'll hear what the vocal fans in passers by or a girl friend or two crouched in the stands. But the the stands sound like on the field, and you will understand offside exciteme'nt around the field is self-generated anyway. calls, throw-ins, and fancy footwork. The combatants are clad Soccer is made to be watched from the ground level. simply enough with headbands, * * .* •. rippe~ dungaree shorts, a high The local Gazette has this week featured the lamentations of scho?l football. shirt and Coaches Gerry Everling and Gary Walters on the NESCAC ruling on occasionally a patr of si1eakers. what colleges shall be eligible to use freshmen when. ~ et they ~ace each other at the Union's football and basketball teams have been shafted by the. hne of scn.mmag~ and constantly NESCAC which will not allow the Garnet to use freshmen against engage m pttched battle· league opponents even though most of those opponents are allowed to Brandished elbows meeting use freshmen. \:ewl~ broken. noses, knees Why? Because UCol's enrollment is too large, if you can believe it. fmdmg foolishly guard.ed That's a ridiculous reason, and it means that not only can crotc~es, and ~nuckles matcht~g Middlebury have 27 freshmen on its football team, hut Union will not u~ Wtth glearrung teeth all typ1fy even offer any competition for such a powerhouse as the Panthers. thiS .barely mortal contest kno~n Ron Westbrook, also known as the Dutchmen offense; is a comtcally as the fraterntty freshman at;d has played his last game for the 1971 Garnet gridders. fo~a~ gamlle. h What a s11ly rule the NESCAC has decreed. But as long as coaches . lt . a t e controversy like Gary Walters are complaining about silly rules, why do they insist cnculatt~g around c~mp~s over on a proper length of hair for their athletes? the mentn of fratermty life, one SELLS GREAT FLAIRS BY LEE Lafayette Clothes - 416 State St. must take a good long look at that institutionalized grandiose sport, fraternity football. What drives supposedly intelligent young men to become eternal fraternal flames o.n the gridiron~ to a point where they would fight each other over some mythical title known as the Union Colle.ge Fraternity Football Championship? 1$ it pride, glory, or just some lack of intelligence? At any rate, it does not make sense. Last Wednesday, Sigma Chi dealt Delta Phi their first loss of the year to advance into the playoffs. Several fights marred the dirty play that ran throughout the game. Incidental was the 26-20 score, as two ·players suffered wounds which required stitches. Thursday, Chi Psi turned the tables · on Sigma Chi, routing them 41-26. Although there were only several heat fights, one guy was whisked off to the hospital for a look at a possible broken nose. Is it coincidence that Sigma Chi is always involved in the b_rawls that sometimes result from the games? We'll find out Tuesday when Psi Upsilon faces Chi Psi for the championship on Alexander Field at 4:45. Hopefully, both teams will get up for the game by some artificial means and be too high to hurt each other. WamCid MORE Freshman Customers Dllnbrase Clemen 1517 VanVranken Ave. We Clean Evei)'thbll . . kick at the 6:19 mark of the second period. The goal was Fraser~s seventh of the year but fi,rst on a penalty kick. Earlier, in the opening period,. Sandy Wilder was thwarted on a penal~y try on a great save by the opposing netminder. The Dutchmen broke ·the game open in the third period with two scores. First, co-captain Paul Martini garnered a lo 0 se ball about fifteen yards in front of the net, heat the fullback to his left, and then chipped his second goal of the year over the outstretched hands of the Mariner goalie. Dick Samuels added the final Garnet score of the day when he fined a hard grounder from twelve yards into the corner of the net. It was the sophomore forward's first varsity goal. Bobby Bernhardt. set him up for the goal after taking a pass ftom Ira Turret. Goalie Paul Miller · played three fine quarters for Union, with Kings Point getting their lone score of the day in the final stanza after Miller had departed for a substitute. The Dutchmen now take their fine record up to Vermont this weekend to face perennially tough Middlebury. This year the Panthers are seeking a post- season berth in the NCAA tourney. The final games of the year are at home against Hartford and Albany State, two weaker teams. JV. Report: Soccer The Union junior varsity soccer team raised its record to 2- 3 with a 3-2 triumph over the Colgate freshman last Tuesday. Disregarding their home fleld advantage, the hooters conceded a 2,.1 halftime lead to their visitors from the west, with Steve Conley's first goal of the season providing the only offensive gleam of that half. In the second half, however, Uni,:,n was far more effective with a new formula. The defense, led by hQstling halfback Bill Breg, filled the strategic cavities of the tirst half, and the offense brightened with a sparkling third period score by Jim Brennan, assisted by Pete Citatella. Citarella then broke the deadlock in the fourth quarter, scoring on a penlllty kick and giv\ng Coach Bill Scanlon's Dutchmen their convincing 3-2 victory. The next game is Saturday at Middlebury, and the season closes next Tuesday at Albany State. Football The l;Jnion junior varsity football team sports an 0-3 record, with losses in the last two weeks to Middlebury a·nd Hudson Valley Community College. The Middlebury frosh beat the Garnet by a 28-13 score despite a touchdown pass by quarterback Joe Urshel and a four yard TD run by Chris Nadherny. Last Friday, a massive HVCC team whipped Ul}ion 45-12. The impressive Urschel connected on 19 of 37 passes, and halfbacks Mike Deshler and Greg Breedlove provided the touchdowns on short runs. RPI cancelled today's scheduled ga:rne, and the season finale will· be next Friday, at Utica . Mond' 16, the by Sat Rutger , ' Co PHI LAD Enrollmen will doubt Carnegie 4 Education This clil new instil them tv colleges, 1 areas. \The U: a society will have than ever i nation.\ reported. education want it for In its 1 and N« commissio 2000 half between 1 college, co But be• the com1 growth stu I. Based it predict= 13.5 millio 17.4 millio 2. Notin market fot and a red1 enrollment million by with 12.5 D Dr. Cia chairman, conferen, enrollment rise sharpl: a little in increase he decade oft The COlt as a go expressed expected s the 1980s. \That 4

