Page 8 CONCORDIENSIS, MARCH 10, 1971 Concordy Sports Officials Slow Spiker~ In Action At Cort·land Tedisco S,hatte,rs Marks Union College's track team had more than opposing runners to contend with in last Saturday's Cortland Invitational. Injuries, illness, and over-scrupulous referees conspired against the Gamet, who wer~ only able to manage 7 points in the meet. The Dutchmen's chances for a team title were considerably dampened during the week prior to the competition'. On March 3, Mike Rich, one of the favorites in the high jump, pulled ligaments in his ankle.. Then on the day before the meet \Mr. Everything,\ Tim McCabe came down with the measles. Despite these set-backs, however, the cindermen still held high hopes of doing well in the meet. Rick Jaszczak, and the Gamet mile relay squad, were . . · Tenni·s ·. . . There will be an organizational meeting for all those interested in trying out for the varsity tennis team on Thursday at 4:30 pm, in the Block U Room of Alumni Gym. both expected to win their specialties. Unfortunately, nobody had counted on the eagle eyes of the meet officials, who disqualified Jaszczak in the 600 yard run, (after he had easily won the event), and then proceeded to deny the laurels to an apparently victorious .relay quartet. In both cases, the officials accused the Dutchmen of stepping across the line that separated the track from the infield portion of the Cortland Fieldhouse. After the second disqualification, the Union team almost walked out of the meet in protest, since many other nmners. were committing the same infraction without being penalized. Greg Hamlin, Steve Wood, and the two mile relay team of Hamlin, John Braham, Dave Rice, and Mark Mindel, were the only Garnet performers to escape the censure of the referees. Hamlin took a fourth in the 1000 yard run (clocking 2:21.6), while Wood tied for fourth in the 600 (1:17.3), and the relay quartet took third with an 8:20. The Garnet basketball team this season set a College record fo.r victories and .. guard Jim Tedisco continued. to increase his career scoring record·s as the Dutchmen finished their 1970-71 season with an 18-3 record. The 89-8'1 victory over Hamilton in the season finale broke a 45-year-old college mark of 17 wins set in 1925-26, and also snapped a streak of six consecutive losing seasons at Union. Prior to this year, the Dutchmen had not topped the .500 mark since 1963-64. The 5-7 Tedisco scored 30 in Clinton to raise his career total to 1,167, 50 points better than the previous all time career high of 1,117 set by Dave Santos '63. The junior, who has another entire season of eligibility remaining, already has 414 field goals and 339 free throws in just two varsity seasons, eclipsing career marks in both categories held by Santos. The Schenectady native this year totaled 117 assists in 21 games to set a Union record and his 12 assists in the win over Drew is also a new college mark. Tedis.co now holds every offensive record in the Union For Ali, A Taste Of Defeat by MARK MINDEL The King is dead, Hail the new King! As the evening of March 8, 1971, came to a close, so, too, did the myth and legend of Muhammed Ali,-Cassius Clay. It was a bitter blow to many whose dreams of a superman, an untouchable, a God-among-men ended as abrubtly as the left hand of the crowned champion, Joe Frazier, punished Ali's chin. were the body punches affecting Ali and how long could Frazier, already puffed and slightly bleeding, resist the quick Ali jabs? Ali's style of jab and clinch subtracting more than adding to his points. Things started to change after the lOth round, as Frazier started taunting Ali-unheard of 3 years ago-by laughing everytime he was hit. Frazier became the aggressor, and in the 11th, stunned Ali with a left hook against the ropes; Muhammad staggered throughout the round: Was he serious when he struggled back to his corner as if in a drunken stupor? mighty Ali toppled to the ground, legs flailing almost completely over his head. The moment had come; one was grabbed by the reality that Muhammad Ali is a human: not a deity. \fhe boxer had been felled. He was ~p as quickly as he went down, but the shock was in one's heart. He gamely tried a comeback, but finished th'e round hup;ging onto an also extremely exhausted Frazier. Two beautifui boxers still stood. As I sat frozen in my seat, I wondered how the fight would be scored. It was truly a masterpiece by two of the best, both taking more multiples of punishment book, includin,g all the single ~ark is also a record for game, season, and field 'house Memoria] Field Rouse. records as well a~ ali the career The 81.3 points ... p~r game miuks. averaged by the cltrb this year on · In· addition to the record for offense also establishes .a new victories, the Dutchmen tea,m co11ege record, while the Garnet's cracked a 64-ye::u-old winning 414 free throws bJ;eaks an old margin mark whe.n they defea~ed m~tk in that category. Stevens 90-40. The 50 pomt Despite playing o11e less game spr~ad bettered the ·previous than a year ago, the Dutchmen record gf 48 set in a 56.-8 victory came within · 10 points of over Albany Law School in 1907. shattering a college sco~i1g Coach Gary Walters' club record set ?Y the 1969;.70- cl1;1b. tallied the most points ever by a ·The 647 Umon field goals tallied Garnet quintet in a. sin~le gall?e this ~ea~on feU just 19 short of when they scored 115 m a wm the all~tJ.me mark, also set last over Loyola of Montreal. That year. Mermen T a;ke Ninth Place At St. Bonaventure Meet by WOODY Closing out the 1970-71 season, the Un.i:on College swimming team \did not finish last\ in the seventeenth annual ~pper New York college swimming championships, as Coach Bob McMurray pointed out yesterday, The Garnet, with only four team members participating, finished ninth in the eleven team field, with 44 points, edging Buffalo State by two points. The heavy. snow of last week prevented five of the possible nine Dutchmen entries and Coach McMurray from reaching the weekend meet at Olean. Host school St. Bonaventure won the championships with 398 points, and four of Union's dual meet · opponents this season finished second through fifth: RIT, 349 points; RPl, 27·8Y2 points; Rochester, 226 points; and Hobart, 173. points. Albany State finished one up on the Gamet, with l06Y2 points good for eighth place. Dave Seward, Tom Hough, Tom Klinkow, and Bruce Goldberg spent up to thirteen hours on the road to represent the Garnet. Seward took third place in the 50 free with his best time of the season but not of his just-completed Union . career, :22.89. He also took sixth in the lOOfree. Tom Hough's 2:01.1, his best time of the year, was ,only good for eleventh place in the 200 free, and Tom Klinkow followed him in twelfth place. The four Dutchmen swam together for the first time as a freestyle rela,y team and turned in a surprisingly good time of 3:37, for sixth place. That Union coUld not have last year's freestyle entry--Burt Yankiver, Mike Horwath, Steve Hill, and Seward--swim this year aptly sums up a frustrating season. · Linksters · Meet Anyone interested in playing varsity golf this spring, freshmen included, should 4!ome to an organizational .meeting tomorrow at 3:30 pm in the Block U Room of the Alumni. Gvm, If vou can't attend, leave your name· and approxiJ!~ate handicap with Coach BiD Scanlon. For the three thousand fans who jammed Albany's Palace Theatre, as well as the countless millions around the country, the ''Fight of the Champions\ was well worth the optimum price tag and the long wait between getting a seat and watching the fight. To me, and many others, it was a lesson in reality. Yes, Virginia, Cassius Clay can be beaten. The fighters didn't let up, and in the 14th, Ali came out seriously attacking Frazier. At the beU for the 15th, Ali again came out punching, trying vainly for a repeat Bonavena performance, but this wasn't Ringo. than any previous opponents .i-...;_---~-----~----------------\!\\\\---11 they had fought. Ali had scored But still, in many ways it was the same Cassius Clay who defeated Sonny Liston down in Miami and won our hearts or our anger. Loud-mouthed, raging at the weigh-in, a dramatic pre- fight \sealed\ prediction, the staredown before the fight, the a we of his presence in the ring, and the clowning and taunting in the ring. He mastered Frazier over the early rounds, in my opinion, with reaching and lightning-fast jabs. But he didn't start moving until about the fourth or fifth round. Then, he openly taunted Frazier by pressing his outstretched glove against Frazier's forehead, a move which frustrated Frazier, who couldn't blast Ali with body punches, as is his wont. And he denied the effect of Frazier's Then it came. Frazier threw a left hook which Muhammad blocked with his right, but seconds later, Frazier dipped his left shoulder and rocked the world as well as Ali with a mighty blow to the chin. The more punches, Frazier had landed the deathblows, but both · were on their feet after 15 rounds of constant battle. In my mind neither had proved without a doubt that he was the champion. Both had thrown their best, and both had taken it. Frazier, of course, won by unanimous. decision, as Muhammed Ali tasted defeat for the first time. Nusbaum's \Outfitters to Men and Young \Men\ blows by confidently shaking his 447-451 STATE ST. head \no\ to tell the crowd, \not SCHENECTADY even the mighty Joe Ffaashaa ~=====:::=====::-.:=============: can harm me.<' He would soon _ see. In the 6th, the excitement of Ali's prediction had the crowd stirring, but it was Frazi~r who seemed to have his mind set on ending the fight. Later, Ali backed himself into the corner, hands covering his self-esteemed head to show the world that he could take what Joe had to offer. Joe scored the points, but Ali lifted his arms in victory to the shouts of, \Ali Ali.'' But how ' LUIGI'S RESTAURANT SPECIALIZING IN Italian • American Food 1125 BARRETT ST. Schenectady OJ 6-.9744 tnjoy Sizzling Steaks and Chops Visit Our Cocktoil Bor ) DON!'T BE FOOLED COMPONENT STER:EO CANNOT BE MATCHED' IN QUALITY FOR THE BEST IN LISTENING IT'S {V)PIONEI--. See and Hear Them at Lafayette It ~ 4Ut•• ._ ._ ••• _,,_. - - ... _ - -.:.- -- - PL-A25 AUTOMATIC TURNTABLE . SX-990 AM-FM STEREO RECEIVER SCHENECTADY GLENS FALLS PITTSFIELD LUJUUl .. 79 Centrar Ave. 141 Erie Blvd. 462-9501 346·6111 707 Upper Glen · 42 Summer St. Northway Mall 792•9992 . 49!i·l4:ZO 459;7~50 <l .- r , -~ \\' ... • \ A' .-.. 4t tl\ tit •1 II> .lo £ t'!t;J ~ J' 4.': ;1 ;»; ·\) ~ ~) .. •J -'.1· ,\ ltJ 4i ( \ •j I ) (' I) .... ,)t ..e ')I . \\' •• 't; ., ~ ,j ~~~ '· • - • ~ ~ I of Ha Ma visi anc 1 of Ph: eric of to Tb fot by . Fo . Ph se' At1 Ot All OJ: Ac th~ ica cia no as! co re~ ta] Pr Pr ci PI: me vh is w tl: ai w l! o; tt c; R u c II fc c p n tl I ( S] st e1 !\o al c ir 1\ E sc fc S1 a l'i ( F l. t fl a

VOLUME 100 NUMBER,, 33 SCHENECTADY, NEW YORK. MARCH 2, 1971 Price Twenty Cents Morris Explains Nature Of American Imperialism ' ' ... by PETER DICKERMAN Professor Bern~rd S. Morris, speaking under the auspices of the International Relations Club, told his audience Monday night that \development of a revolutionary potential involves the restructuring of consciousness. •• In his lecture, entitled \The Greening of Imperialism,\ Professor Morris sought to provide an explaiJ.atory framework which would reveal the underlying forces governing American foreign policy. In his choice of a title Morris apparently emulated 'the best- selling study written by Charles Reich, and entitled \The Greening of America.'' While the Br ,oth er K t'rLpatrt'cL ~~:~~~\n~ien~~tm~hide:f Re~~~ . f( ' f( c?nclusions •. he praised Reich f?r h1s emphasis upon a change m In Free ; Co ff. ee h o u se~~~~c~::~~~~ ~~ c~~~~~~s~~:sd~~ TJIE REV. FREDERICK KIRKPATRICK by PATTY SIPE Rev. Frederick Douglass Kirkpatrick will be featured in .a free coffeehouse Sunday, March 7, at 7:30p.m. in Nott Memorial. central to any theory of · revolution,\ and further that \Hey Brother\ Coffeehouse in revolution and imperialism are New York City. The coffeehouse, irreparably linked. in Kirkpatrick's words, \provides Professor Morris noted that in a forum for people of all races to recent years American come together.\ He has been academicians have shifted from described as a person who \plays a:n . examination of Sovi~t the guitar, sings, and exudes a impel'ia:iism to cr'itical studies of Pied Piper tnagnetis:m, American imperialism. surrounded by a circle of According to the Professor, there;! affectionate young people.\ has been a general recognition that there, is '\little diffe.rence between the .Brezhnev and Nixon Doctrines,\ in that both are basically imperialistic. Morris, who presently teache.s at the lndU.na. BERNA.RD MORRIS proceeded by giving a detailed analysis of two · :contending theories on the origins of imperialism: the Realist interpretation, and the Marxist or neo .... Marxist interpretation. According to so-called Realist theoreticians, the United States has been thrust into the role of predominant world power, and · therefore has certain unavoidable responsibilities. From this . perspective, the Vietnamese Wa.r · is· seen as a necessary police operation to maintain world order. While highly critical of some aspects. of Realist theory, Morris called it a \not altogether unpersuasive argument.'' The Marxist in~erpretation holds that the inherent dynamics of capitalism results in imperialism, for the need of business interests to gain new markets brings about the intervention <;>f politicai and . military force. Morris agreed with the Marxist explanation to an extent, and stated that \Capitalism by its very nature .. .is expansionist.\ However; Professor Morris rejected the Marxist notion of ec~momic determinism, and asserted that contemporary neo- . Marxists underestimate the capacity of the system (specifically the Arne ric an system) \for absorbing and co- Qpting dissent.\ He concluded by stating that a change of consciousness has begun in America among upper and middle class students. and that it is this which provides hope for a gradual but radica I tratlsformation of American society. , Professor Morris reminded his audience, however. that \action in a conceptual void is bound to be harmful and self-destructive ... and that ·radical groups must . develop appropri~te organi- zational structures in order to achieve some degree of effective- ness. Rev. . Kirkpatr,iclc . i.s an extremely versatile man who graduated\·· from· Grambling College in Louisiana, and was named All American Quarterback in 1955. He became a Baptist Minister in 1965 and a Professor of Anatomy at Grambling College in 1968. Brother Kirkpatrick, as he prefers to be called, is extremely active in civil rights. lie was a close associate of Dr. Martin Luther King and helped to organize the Poor People's March on Washington in 1968. Also in 1968, Rev. Kirkpatrick founded the Many ·Races Cultural Foundation.· Brother Kirkpatrick and his friend, Pete Seeger, and other associates · have toured the country singing about the need to save the natural ~nvironment. Rev. Kirkpatrick is being brought to Union as a part of the series of free lectures and performances which included the discussion of co-ed dorms at Oberlin College, and the discusaion of the Death of God. Free refreshments will be served at the coffeehouse and all are Fiue To Seek Fishy· Facts About Canal Zone Ecology His major project now is the invited to attend. Five undergraduates, led by ecologist, Professor Carl J. George, will spend 10 days in the Panama Canal Zone next month probing aspects of the controversial plan for a new inter- oceanic sea level canal. Woodrow Wilson fi:nalists Cho:sen; No Seniors Awarded Fellowships The results of this year's Woodrow Wilson Fellowship Competition are that we had none of our seniors chosen among the three hundred Woodrow Wilson fell.ows nationally. However, four seniors have been named finalists in the 1971 Woodrow Wilson National Fellowship Foundation competition and will be recommended for financial assic;tance at the graduate schools of their choice. They were among 471 finalists chosen nationally. The four are Frederick R. Maxfield in chemistry, Richard E. Reid in German Linguistics, Eugene A. Tetray in theoretical physics and Roy F. Wiese in economics. The foundation selected 305 others as fellowship recipients. More than 10,000 seniors were nominated by their professors in this the 25th annual fellowship competition. The foundation sponsors the fellowship program each year to encourage outstanding students who are considering careers in public service, particularly• college teaching. Maxfield is the son of Mr. and Mrs. Allen Maxfield of 136 Winslow Terrace, Glen Rock, N.J. Reid is the son of Mr. and Mrs. E. W. Reid of 31 Summer St., Adams, Massachusetts. Terray is the son of Mrs. Gwynne Terray of Hudson House, Ardsley-on-Hudson, New York. Wiese is the son of Mr. and . Mrs. Walter F. Wiese of 197 High St.., Manchester, Connecticut. Although finalists met the same high standards as Woodrows Wilson fellows of past years, the limitation of funds did not enable the Foundation to provide support for them, but lists of fmalists have been sent to all graduate school deans in the United States and Canada in an effort to secure financial assistance from other sources. The Faculty Council will discuss the matter of the foreign language requirement at its March meeting• The Curricular Affairs Committee has recommended that the requirement be aboJis~ed retr«!~£tive .to the class \of 1911. The Committee also recomitf.f~iflnat students in the future be allowed to take one 'tan,gy,!~e course for upper. class Comp. Ed. credit, however foreign language courses already taken may not be used for Comp. Ed. credit. The Committee on Student Standing, meeting last week, deferred consideratiQD of several petitions to waive the language requirement until the Faculty Council has met. A definite decision will be made on the requirement by the beginning of spring term. Several administrators have expressed confidence that it will be aboUshed.'' The group has been, studying the canal proposal for the past three months. The on-site investigation will be followed by another 10 weeks of classroom work, as part of the Comp. Ed. program. Dr. George, an ichthyologist and associate professor of biological sciences, has previously studied one group of commercially valuable fish in the Canal Zone area. With special attention to the potential impact of the proposed sea level construction on the fish,. the fisheries and the economy of the Panama region. He worked Qn the fish question at the request of the National Academy of Sciences which has contended that the construction of a sea level canal may have serious ecological consequences. A 1970 NAS report, which Dr. George backs, contradicts the findings of a presidential COmiDlSSlOn that studied the canal project. The commission concluded there is little evidence to support the view that a sea level canal in Panama would upset the balance of animal and marine life in the region. The professor, who has also done extensive resident research on the Suez Canal and the Aswan Dam, notes that the proposed new caRal would have no barrier to prevent species urtique in one ocean from migrating to the other. < Further, he says there has never been a long-term biological base-line study made in the area to serve as a reference against which to measure the effects of a new canal. At least two of the five Union students accompanying Dr. George will be studying the migration of sea organisms from ocean to ocean. minimized in the present canal by the fresh water barrier formed by man-made Gatun Lake. Other projects include work on the potential economic impact of a sea-level canal on the large Panamanian commercial fishing and fish- product industries. A sixth student will not accompany the group to Panama but instead will be in Washington and New York examining the political aspects of the proposed canal, including financing and control. Those accompanying Dr. George are: Peter R. Brayton, a junior biology major from Glens Falls, N.Y.; Philip W. ·Briddell, a junior economics and biology major from York, Pa.; Timothy P. Cross, a sophomore physics major from Cutchogue, N.Y.; Jeffrey W. Harris, a junior biology major from Binghamton, N.Y.; and Michael J. McCarthy, a junior civil engineering major from Hazlet, N.J. Doing research in Washington and New York will be Russell M. Dexter, a junior political scien9e major from Lexington, Mass. The group will leave Schenectady March 18 and return about March 29. In Panama, they will be headquartered at the Tivoli Hotel in Balboa, C.Z.

Page2 - .. Editor-in-(:'hief PeterJ. Weingotd Manqing Editor James E. Stewart BusiJ~ess MaJ~ager Lloyd Birns Editors Emeriti William Ouzet Henry G. Fein . News Editor Louis S. Snitkoff Assoc. Nns Editor Peter Dickerman Asst. Business Managers Joseph Achenbaum Doug Binder COntributing Editor ~ichard L. Kramer Natit~nal Adv. Mgr. Photopapby Editor Feat'ures Editor Daniel Schochet Mark Shulman Jody Saslow Layout Editor Doug Wong Sports Editor William J. \Holleran Asst. Photography Editors · Charles Long · Asst. Sports Editor Dave Conrey Mark Shugoll STAFF: Pattv Sipe, Les Goldman, Jay Hobart, Marc Lust, Harris Samuels, Judy Steinbach, Tom Con.ley, David Conti,., ·Greg Hamlin, Michael Hollander, George Kaplan, Robert A. Levme, M1ke Meserole, Thorhas Morante, Ruth . Morton, Bari;larl! McDonald., Tom ·Mitchell', Len Solomon, George Bain, Marty Berman, Reid Russel, Gail Goodman, Kevin Roberts, Michael Rosenberg, Howard Stone, Mark Zubres, Mark Urman and Gary Leiderman. Publi•hcd l\uesda)'!i and frid~ys during lhe school year by tlie lltudent body_ o! Union College. Schenectady. N.Y .. National Adveni•ing Representative. National Educational Adverti•inl! ~~'Vi«. l.nc., College Publisher.; .. Rcpfe!!Cnlative, ;!60 l.exington Ave .• N.V:C. Editorial ollice. Old Gym. U~tion Colleie. Publication <lff'~ee, ll1< Wndd Puhlic:ations.. 171 State Str~t.. SehciiCC!udy, N.Y. 12301, .l46- 23SCJ. l:nte~ in t!te ScheiiCC!ady pcll!t office 11> Second Cia!<.~ Mail Matter . Sut.w:ription 20eentsa copy. S6 aydtrdcli\\rcd anywhe~~: in the Uni~ Stata. ,__~~- -- . . -· . . . . Letter to the Editor . ' ' To the Editor: As you know, when I met with the Student Senate on Tuesday night someone raised a question about the recently publicized plan for a Mid-Hudson Graduate Institute in which Union would have some role. Students may be interested in knowing what the plan amounts to and, more particularly, how it came about and what part Union may play. The first point to be made is that adults in the Mid-Hudson region and the State Education Department have for several years been trying to find a way to meet the real and expanding needs for. gradqate education in and around Ulster County. In all, six professional studies have been sponsored, all of them documenting the need and each of them proposing one or another solution for meeting it. Ten or twelve years prior to the first of these reports, Syracuse University developed a graduate engineering program especially for the employees of IBM in Poughkeepsie, as it had done earlier in Binghamton. About six y~rs ag_o Union began courses in Industrial Administration in Poughkeepsie, graduate institute separate from each and autonomous in operation. In the second phase (at the end of five years) any one of the sponsoring institutions may withdraw and a Vassar-only institute may be created, presumably with some continuing :input from Union and Syracuse in the way of part-thne (adjunct) faculty. During both phases, the· financing will be entirely independent of the fiscal resources of the participatitig · institutions; fundamentally, the Institute will operate on tuition, private subsidy, and state and federal grants. What does Union stand to _gain from this enterprise? It render's a service, in the first place, and that is a gain for any institution .even if not calculated in -:-dollars. But it also gains, and has already gained from its service there, a strengthening and sophistication of the Industrial Administration program with clear benefits to the quality of ~that program on home ground. Without building false hopes for myself or for anyone else, I can also say that this kind of participation in a :venture of pu~Iic importance• means 'something to Union . in dollars as well as prestige. .. I personally am pleased by the prospect of participation il). the creating ·of a Mid-Hudson Graduate Institute, al! -l am by the progress to date of oUF two doctoral programs. Faculty and students who are participating in Love Story And Airport Under Oscar Avalanche by MIKE ME;SEROLE Supporting Actor: Richard extravaganzas and Kleenex- The Oscar (full n!lme: T,he Clstellano, '•Lovers and Other inducing love stories, and this COveted Academy of Motion Strangers;\ Chief Da;n George, year the tenants ·of Tinseltown Picture Arts a.nd Sciences \Little Big Man;\ Gen·e ~re indulgin.g themselves. Award) stands ten inches tall, Hackman, \I· Never Sang For. \Airport\ is just what the doctor tips the scales at seven pounds My Father;;' John Marley, ''Love ordered. Who cares. if it didn't and consists of gold plate over Story,\ and John Mills, \Ryan's · get a single vote from the N.Y. btonze. Last Monday, the Daughter.\ Film Critics in December, it's Academy annou·nced its 43rd In accumulated nscar boffo box office !l!nd Hollywood annual list of nominees; briefly nomination·s, \Patton'~ and will take ringing cash registers running through the glal}lour \Airport\ lead the pack with ten over the ringing or' typewriters categories, here's what they came apiece. \Love Story\ is second any clay~ especmlly when money up with: with seven potential statuettes, is tight. Best Actor: Melvyn Douglas, with \M*A*S*H\ and \Tora That brings Ufl to \Love \I Never Sang For My Father;\ Tota, Tora\ third, .pulling in five Story.~' lf any movie has ~:~n James Earl Jones, \The Great nominations each. \Five Easy . outside shot at sweeping the White Hope;\ Jack Nicolson, Pieces\ and \Ryari's Daughter\ field, it's this lovely little beauty ''Five Easy Pieces;\ Ryan O'Neil, are down foF four chances at the of a money·m~er. Of the six \Love Story;\ and George C. Big 0. glamour categories, it can win Scott, \Patton.\ Best Actress: The process of nominating that five. Ali Mac(iraw is a. heavy Jane Alexander, \The Great the Academy empl 0 ys is a simple favorite and if Ryan O'Neil coulcf White. Hope;\ Glenda Jackson, one; each field nominates its own get hii11Self nominated over the \Women In Love;\ Ali nominees ~ in other words; likes of Ben Gazzara and Peter MacGi:aw, \Love Story;\ Sarah actors nominate actors, directors Boyle, who's to say he can't steal Miles, \Ryan's Daughter;\ and cite directors, cinematographers the whole thing? Remember, Carrie Snodgrass, \Diary of a name cinematographers, etceteta. Time magazine won the Oscar Mad Housewife.\ Mter the nominations ate made fot John Wayn.e last year, a,n~ . Best Picture: \Airport \Five and announced, the whole MacGraw go.t the cover Easy Pieces,\ \Love Story,\ Academy votes on all the · treatment this time around. \M*A*S*H and \Patton :B~st. finalists. As may be evident by The. really great part of this Direction: Frederico Fellini, this year's selections, this is by no year's nominations, of course, is \Fellini Satyricon;\ Arthur means a failsafe system of the fact that George C: Scott bas Hiller, \Love Story;\ Robert picking. turned his down. This is the third Altman, \M*A*S*H Franklin \Airport\ is up for ten Oscars, time Scott has told the Academy J. Schaffner, \Patton;\ and Ken while such critically acclaimed to take a:- hike, but unlike the two Russell, \Women In Love.\ movies as \little Big Man,\ previous nominations (Best Best Supporting A~tress: \Husbands \Joe \My Night at Supporting Actor nods .for \The Karen Black, \Five Easy Pieces;\ Maud.'s;'' and \Brewster Hustler'' and \Dr. Strangelove';), Lee Grant, \The Landlord;\ McCloud\ are up ·for ·one or the Academy has declined to HelenHayes, \Airport;\ Maureen none at all. Fact is that etase Scott's nomination. This Stapleton, \Airport and Sally Hollywood has always been a sets up an interesting situation, ((ellerman, \M*A*S*H.\ Best sucker for star-studded will the Academy tum the other .----------...._ _________________ , cheek and graciously vote Scott the Oscar anyway (and what would Scott do then?), or will it gang up on him and vote for old- timer Melvyn , Douglas? The latter is more likely, although Scott must be a great actor, because Patton himself would have probably won the damn WINTER - LOVE IT O.R LEAVE IT! 8 Day Week in the Florida Sun Stay 7 Days-8th Day Free . ,.,... . From as Little as $103 per person · Go By \Het1k'' Now! HECK'S INTERNATIONAJ., .TRAVEL 151 Barrett St. Schdy, N.Y~ . 346-3'431 Specializing in student group travel TIDNGS FOR THE MIND & BODY THE OTHER SIDE OF TODAY IT'S NOT TO LATE TO LEARN ABOUT WINE. .. ' .. ' ty ~ n ~ 0 et -...) 0 VI ftl i (') ; Cl.l 3 ......:I 0 8' 1-3 ~ ~ (.A .... .... ~·-a s CH ..... I\Cj '~ I > = oc: 1-3 ~ = ~< Q n .... ~--c:: \C~ .fll• C1) (.A g ~ (M -· z .... ~ 1-3 .... ~- (') ~ l~ .._. g.. ~-~ 0 -· CD fll . . e. r . for two main reasons: to meet the expressed need of residents there and to supply itself with . a different graduate population than. the one it was already serving well here in Schenectady. Both enterprises have been' successful arid are much valued by those who have had the benefit of them. the cuxr.ent Industrial • 138 Jay St. Join Our Wine Tasting Club Moffett's Liquor Store CP \'f a. ~ ... ' A new element was introduced five years ago when Vassar began to take a hard look at its future. The result of that hard look was, I believe,\ two main decisions: first, that Vassar should become coeducational; secondly, that it should develop some graduate programs and eventually create a full-fledged graduate institute. The first decision was easily implemented and is ·being carried out much as coeducation is being carried out here. The second one, more difficult in its nature for a college with almost no experience (unlike Union) in graduate work, has had a rougher road. Last year, aftt:r extensive study and debate, the faculty approved the concept of graduate study and approved, at the same t-ime, participation in a kind of consottium to get it going. A majority of students were opposed. The Board of Trustees then deferred action and resumed discussion; in early February it voted to go ahead. The plan itslef has two phases. In the first, Union, Syracuse and Vassar will pool programs to create the beginning of a ' Administration · p~ogram lier-e and in Poughkeepsie and in other graduate pr.ograms on . campus . · are a!su, :tb> the be~t · Cif\ my knowledge, pleased. This is not particularly surprising, of course, since :no one is required either to ertroll or to teach in either . .I have rie notion that Union · will, at least in my. time here, develop a full-fledged graduate school; the day for that passed thirty years ago, in my judgment. But I am satisfied that what it is doing in . sr~pate. stu(!ies makes good sen~e, · and- -my concern is only that it be done well and that it be respectably financed. Harold C. Martin, President DIAMANTE'S Enjoy Our Fin• Hom• Coo'kl'd ltalion Food in Ou• Comfortable Dining Root11 Opp, Th• lrowntll 'G,.IIi o\ Nott St,..et Opel:! O~rly 10 to l A..M. ~OYI 5 P.M. to I A.M. 135 Nott Terrace (Across The Field) 1505 VanVranken Ave. Mon.- Thurs. 10 a.m. - 11 p~m. Fri.-Sat. 10 a.m.- U·a.m. Sun. 10 a.m. - 11 p.m . .... ' COUPON , ........ .. • • I Have a drink on us! 1 I I I FREE (Pepsi) I I with the purchase of a I · 1 3-Decker Club Burger I 1 or Sea Filet I I . I with the coupon I I I .• . I Good only at I 135 Nott Terrace : I I I , Expires March 14. I 1 Bring this toupon today I .. , ....... . . COUPON 'lj s t t s ' ·~. c i1 Il r ( v ( tl y n tl a 0 tl t~ VI e: k tl h tl f< s~ a1 w tl tr {e c v~ be es e1 I as m th P< n; re th I gt sa PI re1 AI af of all dii pc an w~ th~ wl ac pe po shl Rt do (he sh; wll usc m< pa its Wl ye! he; \p4 SU] im I

' ., Krise on Senate BombiHg; P P I , , . p·· , · .ower .. · o 1t1cs, .aran·o1a by RAY KRISE, JR. The first thing I heard about it was Skip mnni.ng up to me saying, \Hey they just blew up th~;: Senate.\ My first reponse was to ask if anyone was hurt. My s.econd response was, \Wow far out.\ My third re~ponse was that it was a pretty stupid move, And my fourth resp.onse was to remember tlie burning of . the German Parliment by the Nazis, who blamed it oil the Comml!nists and rose to power thereby. Now,.l wc;mldn't blame most of you for not giving a damn about my personal reactions ·to what turned out to be the bombing of a men's room in the Senate wing of Congress; but I . enumetat\e them because I think they're typical. 1 thank God that no. one was killed or injured in the explosion for two reasons: (1) killing people to stop a war (in this instance, a phone call a half hour before the explosion saiq the bombing was in retaliation for the invasion of Laos) hardly seems either Christian or logical, and (2) the wave of repression which is almost certain to follow the bombing would be increased tremendousiy by a martyr or two (especially if they . were Congressmen: - . see how we value titl~s instead of hum:an beings?). · . · , · · The \WoW 1 . far out,\ that escaped my rips was a purely emotional respo1,1se, one of which I should be at least partly ashamed. Face it, deep down in my gut I have no love at all for that stagnant collection of pompous . asses who . think they rule this country (always remember, .a man rules only at . the concession of those he r1Jles). I like to see them catch shit. 1 guess Bruno Bettleheim would say I am spoiled·. I prefer to think I'm just human. My third response was a reaction against my second. Although I have an emotional affinity for the old Weather style of politics, both the Christian and the · logical parts of me dislike power p.olitics, dislike all politics, really.· If this really . were an action taken by the Left, it was by people who do l)lost of their thinking With their guts; who care not one whit ·if their actions hurt or screw other people. We already have one po·litical faction that operates on sheer animal ·impulses - the Reactionari.es. Hit them and they. don't think,. they simply react (hence their clever name), like a. shark. Sharks are creat1;1re s which have outlived their usefulness. We don't need ariy more of them. My fourth response is possibly pamnoid, but paranoia often has its roots in reality (knock, knock. Who's there? Telegram ... } Last year, Nixon attempted to set up a heavily-gimmicked telephone \poll\ to prove that the public supported· the Cambodian invasion. · The news services • ESCAPE PRO.DUCTIONS· Escape Capitalistic Ripoffs Flag, Money Draft card· papers 25¢ Black Lights $2. 105 S. Chu-rch St, Across from Bus Station Open lOtill 6 Thurs. 10_ till 9 caught on to him and the ploy against those Who demand was ·abandoned. I am by no withdrawal from Southeast Asia. means suggesting that Richard In a perver&e way, I almost hope himself had somebody biow up I'm correct on this score ~ that the john· with the warning that it was non-Left forces that this is to get even for the Laotian planted both the bomb and. the .invasion, but it is the kind of blame. I'd like to think that if the thing that certainly influences Left blew up a men's room, .public opinipn; in this case, both they'd have enough sense to do it for the AdministratioQ and on the House's side of the Capitol. Gould's Subtle Comedy Hits \I Love My Wife\ by DANNY SHOCKET There are certain pictures which limit themselves in scope, but have such a sure sense of their subject matter, that the end result exceeds the self-inflicted limits. Probably the best fihn of this type is Irving Kirschner's \Loving\; another .film is \I Love My Wife.\ Robert Kauffman, the latter film's scenariast, has stated that he first intended to write a film about the juvenile s~xual attitudes of women, but he discovered that women's actions were their reactions to the adolescent sexual fantasies of men. The movie is the story of 1 a successful neurosurgeon who cailnot accept the responsibilities .of ·~ marriage. or an affair. He is incapable ·Of acting, preferring t0 accept the decisions of the women in his life. Elliot Gould .plays the harried doctor with a remarkable sense of subtle comic acting; caring enough about the character to prevent .the creation of a caricature, Gould is responsible for the empathy between the audience and this shallow, weak, emotional adolescent. The performance constantly undercuts the comedy with pathos until the pathos undercuts the comedy. GoulQ. could have shaded the performance to make himself funnier, but he would have destroyed the film .. G<'mld's wife is portrayed 'by Brenda Vaccaro, who handles ,a difficult assignment with class and intelligence. She had to be a sympathetic character to give the film emotional depth, yet she had to repulse the audience just enough t~ empathize with Gould when he seeks love with his mistress. · The only weak perforrnance'is by Angel Tompkins as the woman Gould tries to fall in love with. Perhaps it is a weakness in the script, but she is never more than a beautiful casing for an average girl. Much credit for tbe good performances, and all credit for the intimate and honest feel ofthefilm goes to the director, Mel Stuart. He has a firm ability to mix varying film techniques that never mterfete with the story, but complement the scene beautifully. In one scene, 'the lonely, !:rv~rwe~ght Br~nda Vaccaro waddles around her Iiome and finally throws h.er' kitchen into disarray. Her mood is perfectly reinforced by a hand held camera that follows her around with a wide-angle lens. \I Love My Wife\ is no~ going. to satisfy everybody's taste; it is a special film that will hopefully find its select audience. The film is playing at the Scotia Art theater, where you can arrive late and miss the wretched short on sailing. Waterbeds A LIQUID LOVE-IN Special Student Price $64 Sold onlvat KING OF ROSES WATERBEDS FORMERLY. NOT'f STREET WA TERBEDS 250 LA,RK STREET LUIGI'S RESTAURANT SPECIAUZtNG IN Italian ·American Food , 1125 BARRETT St. Sch,nectady 01 6-9744 Enioy Sizzling Steaks and Chops Visit Our Cocktail Bar KAYE'S IMPORTED CARS •MG •TRIUMPH • RENAULT • FIAT • PEUGEOT •JA~UAR • AUSTIN AMERICA •LOTUS Factory Authorized Sales - Service. - Parts COMPLEn COLLISION SERVICE MCTORY TRAINED TECHNICIANS OVERSEAS DELIV~RY ARRANGED Dqmestic &Import-ed Cars Brmght & Sold NIGHT TOWING 482-441.3· . . 463-8786 949 CI:N:'fRAL Ay. ALBANY, N.Y. CONCORI)IJ!NSIS; MA.;RCH2, 1971 WR UC's Open Air will present Dr. Charles Gati Wednesday · evening at 9 p.m. Dr. Gati is chairman of· the · ad hoc committee and at that time he will discuss .the . committee's report and answer questions on the telephone. * * * * WRUC will hold a general station meeting Wednesday at 9 p.m. in Humanities l15. A new constitution will be ratified and plans will be discussed for next term. All members are urged to attend. * * * * The Outing Club will hold elections for next year's officers on Wednesday, March 10 at 4:30 in Fox House Lou.nge. All Members are requested to attend. The new officers will discuss plans for the Spring Term following their election. * * * * Team rosters for inttamural softball are due this Friday, March 5. There should be about 14 members on a team. Please return the lists to Roy Wiese in 111 Fox. \' * * * This SuQday, March 7, at 9:00 p.m., WR UC will present the Earsight Theater's production of . . Richard Brautigan's much talked about work, In Watermelon Sugar. The triumphant return of radio theater: Sunday night, 640 .on your dial. * * * * \' The Home Life Insurance ~ompany of New York will be conducting interviews in· the PJacement office on Wednesday, March .. 10, 1971. Any. student with a.Il . AB degree and is interested should sign up in the Placement Office for an interview (before March 8th) * * * * Hugh Allen Wilson will give a harpsichord recital on Thursday evening, March· 4, 1971, in the lounge of Fox House at 7:30 p.m. * * * * The All College Council will meet at 7:30 Wednesday evening in Humanities Room I 19. The Governance report will be the topic of discussion. * * * * There will be a General Meeting of all Hillel members next Wednesday night at 7:30 in SS115. At that time, elections will be held for new officers, petitions will be handed out to mark Soviet Jewry Week, and the movie \Price of Silence\ will be. presented. All members are urged to attend this very .---- ....... -----------1 important meeting. PROFESSIONAL Hillel is also planning a Purim TYPING SERVICE Party with Skidmore, Sage, and IBM Selectric Albany State on Sunday, March Experience in Doctoral 7, at 8 p.m. m Hale House. Tltere Dissertations; Reasonable R~tes; will be liquor, wine, and food, as CaD 44i2-6283. ·well as songs and dancing. Hillel -----------·- ... members and their dates will be ;------------....,admitted -free of charge, all FERRO PHAR.\1ACY 575 Nott Street Schenectady, N. Y. fl 7-0510 FOUNtAIN SfiRVICE One bloclc from Brownell Gate others must pay a 25¢ admission fee. Reservations must be made in advance: call Joe Schwartz 372-7956 or Eric Miller 393-8698. There will be a joint concert Sunday, Ma.rch 7, at 4:30 p.m. in . Memorial Chapel of the Albany Lab Band (sponsored by the Union College fugg Workshop) and the combined Brass Choirs of Union and Albany State. 1 masleroieca. 1 1unn1. moving litm.\~~·--- Nightly at 7:30 & 9:30 Andy Warhol pr~s~nts Joe Dallesandro in Sunday Continuous 3:l5a5:15 7:15-9:15

Page 4 CONCORD!ENSIS£ MARCH 2, ~971 Concordy ·Sports Spikers Shake RPI Jinx, Wallop Engin~ers, 65-35 by ~REG HAMLIN Copping ten of twelve events, the Dutchmc,m track team vanquished a hapless R.P .I. squad last Saturday by a lopsided 65-3'5 score. The afternoon showing was one of the strongest Union performances ever ptoduced against an Engineer track team. The win marked the end of what had been a frustrating losing streak to the Troy rivals. Last spring, the heavily favored Gamet cindermen were upset by the Engineers, and just this fall a talented Union cross-country s4uad was overturned by a mediocre R. P .L contingent. Tim McCabe was largely responsible for the long-awaited reversal. Participating in four events (two of which were back- to-hack), the soph individually contributed 8\12 points to the Garnet cause. The diminutive speedster sandwiched two fine second place showings in the 60G and 1000 yard runs with fast legs on both victorious Dutchmen relay teams. Despite McCabe's ·heroics, however, the most remarkable performance was turned in by Miler Bob Nesbitt. The frosh, who had practiced with the team for only one week, led a trio of Mermen Defeat Trinity To Record Third Win by GEORGE BAIN The Gamet swimming team Jnce again has tasted victory -'- but only after a six week, five meet hiatus. The Garnet traveled to Hartford last Friday and raised its record to 3-6 by defeating an even weaker Trinity squad, 6'0-52, with Dave Seward and Tom Klink ow leading the way. of co-captain Burt Yankiver is now the team's number one star, tied his best time of the year in the 50 free, with a :23.0, and turned in a seasonal best, :52.5, in winning the 100. Klinkow, the junior who never swam cotripetitively before coming to Union, clocked his best time ever hi the 200 free, a 2:01.9, and led Mayer to the Gamet's sweep of the 500. The winning time was 5:54,6. Union runners a,cross the tape in . 4:38. As expected, the Garnet field men won all their events, compiling a 23-13 advantage over their counterparts. Mike Rich soared 6'4V-!\ to take the high jump an~ Bill Clayton clea,red 12' in lhe .pole vault, with Gordy Ellmers and Dick 1)ickens easily winning their respective specialties, the long jump and shot put. ~ Ed Rossi recorded the final triumph for the Garnet. The soph, who is transferring to the University of Arizona next year, zipped to an excellent 7.3 clocking in the 55 yard high hurdles. Results of the Union~R.P.I. meet: SO - Glowienka (RPI), Regan (RPI), Callory (RPI), 5.7 600 - Jaszczak (U), McCabe (U), Foster (U), 1:16.6 1000 - Hamlin (U), McCabe (U), Feurigel (RPI), 2:26.2 Mile - Nesbitt (U), Rice (U), Mindell (U), 4:38 Two-ndle - Swierczak (RPI), Lalley (RPI), Rowe (U), 10:10~2 Two-mile Relay - Union (Mindell, Braham, Hamlin, McCabe), 8:26.4 High Hutdles - Rossi (U),. Smith (RPI), Killimayer (RPI), 7~3 Pole Vault - Clayton (U), Battaglia (RPI), Merrill (RPI), 12...0 MEET THE NEW AD - Bruce Allison was named last Wednesday to succeed the retired George Flood as Union's Director of Athletics. Allison currently holds posts as the Garnet varsity laaoss.e :C~aeh .a~d freshmen f9otball mentoJ\. Allison has been aetlve on the national lacrosse scene for several years, serving as secretary; vice president, and president of the U.S. Lacrosse Coaehe~ Association. He is currently chairman of the NCAA Lacrosse Rilles Committee. The Dutchmeii won eight of the thirteen events but swept only two, the 500 and 1000 yard freestyles. Lloyd Mayer broke thirteen minutes for the first time in the 1000, winning in 12:43, and Tom Hough finished second. The team; which has struggled through the season with manpower problems and the loss of Yankiver, hosts a tough Hamilton squad tomorrow afternoon at 3:00 in the final regular season event on Union's winter schedule. The New York State championships, held this weekend at St. Bonaventure, round out the slate. Shot Put - Thickens (U), ,.- ..... .....;~------------------=:-------, Hanbury (RPI), Theis (RPI) 45-5. Mark Foster, fresh off his. first dou hie win of the season, took the optional dive, Steve Hill copped first in the butterfly, and the freestyle relay team Seward, co-captain ·Mike. Horwath, Tom Hough, and Hill · ·1 -·· swam its best race .of the season, winning in :3:31.0. \ · · But the real highlight ·of the · meet was the work of Seward and Klinkow, who each won two events. Seward, who with the loss I ' i I I ~~--~-~-~~- -- ~ WANTED Part Time Help $2.25 Hour Warehouse WORK Call 356-0133 .. High Jump - Rich (U), Kochem (RPI), KHiimayer (RPI), 6-4Ys Long Jump - Ellmers (U), Hirst (U), Merrill (RPI); 20·5~2 'SKI SALE 20%- 50% O·N ALL • CLOTHING • SKIIS .• BOOTS ~· TOWNE MARINE, INC. 2015 CENTRAL AVE. 'ALBANY . TEL. 869-8409 MON-FRI - 9:30 to 9:30 SAT- 9:30 t.uS MAMA. ·BIAN,CHI'S RESTAURANT 1135 Barrett St. Real Italian Food Cooked To Order We Cater To St.,dents The Friendliest Place in Town OPEN TO 3 A.M. FRI. aqd SAT. \ CoME To THe. 0Rc;v1. ALL NITE - FRI. MARCH S

... ' ~ • ) VOLUME 100 NUMBER 34 SCHENECTADY, NEW YORK MARCH 5,1971 Price Twenty Cents Ad Hoc Proposals Senate Members Review Discuss~d By Gati Ad Hoc Committee Rep·.· ort IJyPATTY SIPE ···; . . . The c])airman of the -:§Union questions. Apparently, many: By HOWARD STONE 1 Frank Gado, and the student chairmanship of the College College Ad Hoc Committee on students do not feel that they· A large group of interested I members of the Governance Senate to .rotate so that Goyetnanc.e, Pr-ofessor .tl:harles have adequate experience to students, as well as .the ~lected Committee were presented to each ·,group (students, Gati o{ the Political Science justify a larger percentage of the members of the Student Senate answer questions and explain the faculty, administration) would Department, spoke on WRUC vote. met in SSllS Tuesday night to policies described in their report. hold that position for one term Wednesday evening. Secondly,, the committee discuss the proposals contained Th:e meeting was then opened to per year. There was a prolonged Professor Gati was pleased concluded that the faculty sb,ould in the report of the Ad Hoe general· debate, following the debate over this point, with the with the college community's have a larger percentage of the Committee on Governance. report chapter by chapter. The power of the chairmanship and initial reception of the report, . vote because of their expertise The meeting, called to order by question of why a faculty-student the nature of the role of the incl~ding the amendments which and experience in academic President Walter Spencer, first controlled government was ruled Presidency both coming into have been suggested by various matters. considered the nominations of out was answered by both question. The proposal was individuals. He stated tb,at every The third answer he gave was the Committee on Committees professors. Gati remarked that defeated, by a narrow margin. effort will be made to receive and that the committee was not for several new groups. Both the there would be only fighting and The Kessler group presented give serious consideration to prepared to eliminate executive Student Center Committee and no movement toward meaningful a~other amendment, this one these amendments. power. Gati expressed his own Committee to Study the decision-making. Gado added concerning the Agenda · Gati outlined the structure of personal disagreements with Freshman Year appointments that such an arrangement, with Committee. It was proposed that. the committee and the proposals President Martin's decisions were approved. the faculty's penchant for getting a piece of legislation be placed on contained in its report. In his concerning the concert, tenure, The major proposal of the hung up on legalisms, and the the Agenda at the request of any opinion, it. is the student body and faculty contracts. However, evening, made by . Donald students' tendency to totally two members of the Senate. In which will benefit from the these matters could not have Kessler, was that the Senate disregard such things would end addition, it was requested that governance report. The eight been handled in the same manner approve a statement supporting up in.frustration. reports of the various students on. the seventeen- under the proposed system. the spirit and thrust of the The debate then moved to the Committees be given to all member committee fought for Gati emphasized that we must report. It was stressed that, specific proposals of the report, Senate members at the same time student rights and privileges but appreciate the need for executive though there might be minor and here the discussion became they are presented to the the success of the committee, leadership and student disagreements, the ~rection and more intense. There was an Pres~dent. There was general according to Gati, is basically participation. The report rejects principles of the report were fully amendment, proposed by Donald agreement on this point, and it · due to the cooperation and trust both e~tremes (too much power supported. The proposal carried Kessler and the group whose was passed by a voice vote. A among its. members. in the hands of th( by a vote of 38ul. · proposal for governance counter-proposal to make it In summarizing the report Administration and too mucll Professors Charles Gati and appeared in Concordlensis last apply only to standing itself, Gati sited major. ContinuedonPag~3 week, which called for the committeeswasdefeated. advantages wbich the report will Finally, there was a proposal give to students. Two students w .... -a. ·r·r·. e. n c· .·o· ·.m.· .m·lss· ·l·on·. A· w· .. h.ltewas· H? that the composition of the will become associate members . college Senate as recommended of the Board of Trustees, and as in the report be altered in a :~~; a~~e~e y~teu::-1~c~t!:~ . A' ·s· ·~s: .. -,-.a· '·· , .... ·s .. ··l·n- --at·l··o·~n· -' 'l·n· v· ·e·st·l·,g· .a· to·: r_ y· alk' .S :::::~s ::~ch ra:U~~d e:~~~ voting members. Students will be representation on . all matters, given majority vote on the By DAVID CONTI example of tbe Commission's two different bullets must have including academic issues. Again, College Senate in regard to non- The assassination of John F. questionable finding, the fact hit the .rnen, and \the same man there was much debate, academic matters, and a 33 % Kennedy was the subject of a talk that Kennedy and former Texas could not have shot both bullets.\ concerning whether .the ratio vote .in the Senate on ~cademic presented Tuesday . evening in Governor John Connally \could Furthermore, Saltzman should in fact be equal and, que.stions. Student~ wtll have SS016 by· Bob Saltzman, a not have possibly been hit by the presented slides that showed the whether such a proposal would voting. representatives on all member of the '\National same bullet,\ as the Commission view an assassin would have of be appr~ved by the faculty. It colleg.e and most faculty Committee to Investigate ·declares. Working with that the presidential limousine from was pomted . out tha! the comnu!tees, on the . College · Assassinations.\ assumption, he continued th\at the sixth floor of the Texas Book proposal,. as It stands m !he ~enate s Agenda Comtnlttee and Saltzman described the ACC '·' o·te~ Depository Building at the time rep?rt: giVes students a VOti~g 10 all departm~nts. ..Committee as a loose y 1 ~ the first shot was fired - maJonty . on aU non-acaderruc Th~ .. chauman of . ;the organization that acts as a ·according to the Commission. matters. The proposal to alter the comnuttee also gav.e three clearing house for information Endorsem nt The man's view of the car. is report was defeated by a vote of responses. to }he questio~ some pertaining to assassinations, and ·. • . . e 'completely obscured at this point 17 - 13 ·. . . . have as~ed Why wasn t rno~; showed slides and films which he Of R J \ proving, as Saltzman maintained, Havmg been ~ sesslon for an P?Wer glve!l to the students. (eels prove that the Warren eso UtJOI1 that the first shot could not have hour and a half, It was clear that Ftrst, he pomted out, a ~u~ey of Commission was totally wrong in possibly come from the building. the full report coul~ not be the student body here mdu;:ated stating that Lee Oswald was the The All College Council, Without pushing a theory of completed .m one mght. ~e that the students themselves wa~t lone murderer of President meeting in a room devoid of his · own, Saltz.man was Senate decided. to meet a~n 28 - 30 % of the vote on academic Kennedy. Saltzman stated as one spectators Wednesday night, attempting to challenge the ~ext. Tu~ay mght to contmue unanimously endorsed the · tts dtscusston. Concordy and WRUC Select New Top Chiefs MJames E. Stewart of Rochester, Minnesota, has been elected Editor-in-Chief of Concordien!lis. ihe results 'Of the vote, held last nigl}t in the editorial offices, Were announced by retiring Editor Peter J. Weingold. Stewart's previous position of Managing Editor now will be ass11JP.ed by Louis S . Sb.itkoff, a sophomore f.r:om Brooklyn, New York, and Doug Wong, .a sophomore from Tb,e :Bronx, New York. Associate News Editor, Peter Dickerman, a sophomore from Bayside, · New York; will fill the post of News Editor. Stewart is a senior interdepartmental major in electrical engineering and the arts. His election is the culmination of a rapid rise within the :ConcorcUensis hierarchy. Two Concotdy chiefs remain in their present jobs: Features Editor Daniel Shocket, a junior who lives in Rockville Center, New York, and Sports Editor William J. Holleran, a junior from Silver Springs, Maryland. WRUC has also announced the results of its recent elections. Bob Ditter who joined the station in his freshman year refused to run for re-election and a junipr from NeWington, Connecticut, Don Francolino, will succeed him as the general manager and ·president. The WRUC radio staffers also elected Art Forsdick to continue as station manager; Dennis Fazio to be technical director; Bob Smith as. program director; and Sandy Mercaldi as sales director. Francolino indicated that there would be little basic change in station operations. WRUC will continue to concentrate o.n improving its airsound and listenership through increased disc jockey training and off-the ... air station participation. There will be three remote broad casts. from D' Andreas in the Spring and more contests. The· new station general manager said that anyone interested in working on the station is welcome and should contact him. Report of the Ad Hoc Continued on Page 3 eos~~~·o~~~r=cew•\'' father Murphy AttendS Spencer, in a Concordiensis interview, quoted from memory p • p T lk !!:oluti~~.t of A~~:r~~;ov~~ ar1s . eace a • s Spencer, the endorsement (introduced bY. Professor Thomas Kirshner) reads as follows: ''We highly endorse the Report of the Ad Hoc Committee on Governance. We compliment the Committee on its comptehensive, well thought-out Repor~. We consider it a workabh• and forward-looking model for governance at Union in the 1970's.\ In addition, three substantive Continued on Page 3 The Ullion, and Bradford Junior CoUece Glee Clubs will present a concert tomonow, at 8:30 ln Memorl.-l Chapel. The featured work will be Cantata No. 106, by Johann Sebastian Bach, with Keith Kibler and Steven Cole, as soloists; The Bradford Club will also sing choral ·works by Plerluigi and Monteverdi, while Union's G.lee Oub wiD oft'er Handl, DaNola, and GabrieU. , MARC LUST Father James Murphy, assistant pastor at St. Columba's Church and Newman Club advisor, left on Wednesday, March 3, for the Paris Peace Talks as part of a fact-fmders committee sponsored by Clergy and Laymen Concerned About Vietnam, Fellowship of Reconciliation and American Friends Service Committee. Father Murphy said that the trip basically had -two purposes: one is education - to· meet with the parties involved~ speCifically South Vietnamese and French groups and to find out the actual facts concerning Vietnam; the other is to report on his findings. Before leaving, Father Murphy wrote to m;:ijor news bureaus and notified them that he would be willing to ask any questions that they would want answered concerning the Vietnam situation. He received a few responses. Murphy said that the group ofl65 people going to the talks were going as an independent group with a basic desire for peace, to obtain the facts and report back to the local communities. At this time, Father Murphy is in favpr of a total U. S. troop withdrawal from Vietnam. He said that.tfthe U. S. would withdraw, tt would open the doors for a coalition government to replace the 'uppet government currently in existence in the south. He added that there is a basic agreement among the parties involved for at least a · provisional coaltition government, maintaining that only the Saigon ·egime has not come out for a coalition government. Father Murphy said that he was interested primarily in hearing th., opinions of the people concerning the present South Vietnam regime. ·He will discuss the trip in greater detail at a press conference which will be held following his return, on or about March 10.

Page 2 CONCORDIENSIS, MARCH 5, 1971 ,···r·~ -~,o_..,. -.,.,~l: I-A ' _! LETTERS TO THE EDITOR C!!nnrnr ~,: ititttsis :~~ Mue~i~~~Edltor James E. Stewart News EditGr Louis S. Snitkoff A-c. Newt Editor· Peter Dickerman Features Editor Daniel Schochet · Layout £ditor Doug Wong Edlter-bt-clalef Peter J. Weingold ..... Manater Lloyd Dims Aat .... ,.._ Manapn Joseph Achenbaum Doug Binder National Ad\. Mer. Mark Shulman Sports Editor William J. Holleran Asst. Sports EdHor Mark. Shugoll Editon EmerHi WiUiam Ouzer Henry G. Fein CantriblltluJ EcUtor Richard L. K.tainer_ Pbotopaphy Editor Jody Saslow Alst. Photoaraphy Editors Charles Long · Dave Conrey STAFF: Pattv Sipe, Les 'Goldman, Jay Hobart, Marc Lust, Harris Samuels, Judy Steinbach, Tom Conley, David Conti;, Greg Hamlin, Michael Holla11der, George Kaplan, Robert A. Levme. M1ke Meserole; Thomas Morante, Ruth Molton, Barbara McDonald, Tom ·Mitchell, Len Solomon, George 'Bain; Marty Bennan, Reid Russel, Gail Goodman, Kevin Roberts, Michael Rosenberg, Howard Stone, Mark Zubres, Mark Urman and Gary Leiderman. l'ubli!lhod l'IICiidays and l'rid!IJil> durin' the school year by tile student hody ol Union Cnlqe, SChenectady. N.Y .. Natm1111l Advcni.o;ing Repn:sentativc, National EducatiON!! l\d'IICI1ilii1113 ScMa:. Inc., College Publishern Rcpraentativc, 360 l.e:l<injton '\'\'-· N.v:c. Edit<>rial olfa, Old (iy~. URion ColleF. Publil:aliPn Otroa:. The World l'ublicationli. ?71 Sllotc Street .• S.:henccilldy. 1\1. Y. UJO?, 346- 2356. l:lllercd in lhc ScheD!x:tady J'O'II oiTIOC as Second C1au Mail Matter .__~~Su~ription 211 cents a copy. $6 a yar delivcn:d anywhen: in t!M: Unilo;d Slatc_s. Pass the Governance The intention of the editors in publishing the Kessler-Hyman· Galdston-Coven was to stimulate discussion within the College community on the question of governance in general. We wish to note that, while the Ad Hoc Committee's Report is not as advantageous to students as is theoretically possible, it does represent a substantial move toward truly representative government on campus. Therefore, it is our view that the general thrust of the Report should be accepted by both students and faculty. The need for an overwhelming endorsement is crucial, in that such a display of unity will tend to push the Administration and the Board of Trustees toward acceptance of the governance package. In their zeal for perfection, some students and faculty may forget that the Governance Committee proposals, if approved, are likely to have tremendous impact in changing an essentially autocratic rule to a dynamic system encouraging participation, if not. \participatory democracy.\ This is not to\ say, however, that the Report cannot be improved. Constructive modifications should be seriously considered, perhaps including· the rotating chairmanship plan for the College Senate. We would like to remind the College community that governance is a matter which directly affects each person here; those who shun activism and fail to show interest concerning this issue deserve the highest reprobation. CHANGE OF ROOMS FOR WINTER TERM FINAL EXAMINATIONS COURSE Comp. Ed. 26 Comp. Ed. 67 Comp. Ed. 68 Biology 12 Biology 170 Biology 180 Mathematics 12, section 3 Mathematics 32, section l Psychology 24 Engineering 11, section 3 Engineering II, section 4 Engineering 24 E.E. 32 E.E. 41 E.E. 144 c.s. 20 c.s. 131 c.s. 134 c.s. 140 NEW ROOM ~L 202 PL 202 CH 201 PL 202 PL 202 CH 201 PL 202 PL 202 py 113 ss 113 ss 115 ss 117 CH 201 CH 206 ss 115 CH 201 CH 206 HU 115 CH 207 DAY AND TIME Tuesday, 2:00P.M. Tuesday, 2:00P.M. Tuesday, 2:00P.M. Thursday, 9:00 A.M. Monday, 9:00 A.M. Monday, 9:00 A . M . Thursday, 2:00 P.M. Thursday, 2:00P.M. Wednesday, 2:00P.M. - Monday, 2:00 P. M . Monday, 2:00P.M. Tuesday, 9:00A.M. Tuesday, 9:00A.M. Tuesday, 9:00A.M. Monday, 2:00 P. M . Wednesday, 9:00 A. M . Wednesday, 9:00A.M. Wednesday, 2:00 P.M. Friday, 9:00 A. M . SPRING TERM REGISTRATION Spring ter91 classes will begin at 8:30 A.M. on Monday, March 29th. Student schedules will be distributed to college addresses prior to the beginning of classes. Students who do not receive a copy of their class schedule will be able to secure a copy at the Gymnasium beginning at 8:00A.M. on the first day of classes. Formal registration and payment of spring term charges will take placy in the Gymanslum on Tuesday and Wednesday, March 30th and 31st, from 8:30 to 11:30 A.M. and from 12:45 to 3:30 P.M. Students· should report as f01lows: · LAST NAME A-F G-K L-Q R-Z REPORT Tuesday morning Tuesday afternoon Wednesday morning Wednesday afternoon Students may report at a time other than above should classes interfere. A late payment fee will be aS!Il!ssed after Wednesday afternoon. Adjustments and changes in schedules may be made at the Gymnasium Monday through Friday, March 29~April 2 ~rom. 8:30 A.M. to 3:30P.M., except for the noon hours. Fnday, April 2 1s the last day for making schedule adjustments and \Pass-Fail\ elections. To the Editor: In the la$t week, and in 1 particular the last two days, we have been strongly questioned as to the nature of our criticism of the Governance Report. We have been questioned on two counts; one, that our criticism was solely an attack on certain individuals involved in the_ governance of this college, and secondly, that we are dissatisfied with the entire Governance Report and with the . work.ofthe Ad Hoc Committee. The first critich:;m is simply untrue. We have differed with members of the college community on many issues in the past and will, when differences arise, do so in the future. However, this is not the foundation for our criticism of the Governance Report. Secondly, we are not dissatisfied with the Governance Report. We are of the opinion that the Ad Hoc Committee did an excellent job and should he congratulated for encouraging the college community to take a substantial step forward in college governance. It should be noted that our proposal was submitted to the Subcommittee on Models a number of months ago. In its present form, it is presented only to suggest a number of improvements to what we consider to be an outstanding governance plan. Finally, we feel compelled to state that we are not proposing . an alternate plan of governance. We are in support of the Ad Hoc Committee's plan and are only suggesting a number of modifications. Sincerely, Philip Galdston '72 Mark Coven '72 * * * * To the Editor: Last October, along with three other students, I proposed a model of the way in which I thought campus government should be organize<!-. Last Friday, CONCORDY reprinted this proposal. Many people have The Best Wines & Liquors construed the reprinting of this proposal to mean that I r:;till · advocate its co.nsideration. However, this is not the case. Mter careful reading of the. report of the Committee on Campus governance, I no longer support my original proposal .. Instead, I beleive , the model drawn by the Gati Committee to be a more workable and reasonable statement about how campus government should be structured. The Committee on Campus Governance report' is a progressive and insightful document. It is a 'Positive proposal, offering a practical means by which the college may improve itself. This proposal has judiciously factored in my views._. as well as those views of all others in the college community. Therefore, it is my hope that the members of the college community will recognize the excellence of this report and work toward its speedy implementation. · Open Letter: Respectfully, Donald A. Kessler * * * * We, the undersigned, have worked toward the goal of responsible campus government at Union. We believe the Committee on Campus Governance report to be a creative, thoughtfu!l and reasonable statement about how campus government should be organized.. We, therefore, urge 8ij tb.e college community to immedtately ratify and implement this proposal. Ed Young Robert Teittinen Katblee~ Whyte Ann McNamara Jeff Walker Roy Weise Paul Pfmgst Swtt Bo:wen Donald Kessler John Brown Jalnes Kadamus Dave Robbins reter Weingold Phil Robinson John Thromulous Karen Auslender Richud 'Steinwurtzel r.r.._• THE PEANUT STORE --~---~ Featuring 'PLANTERS HOT ~OASTED . PE/\HI,JTS _ ~BRING YOUR DATE ~!l§i~' 14ile 1.0% OFF For Students Sol Lipstein Enterlainmenl 7Nites A week Twin Dance _Floors LIQUORS, Inc. 827 McClellan St. Sehdy. 372-0386 135 :Nott Terrace Rce. 9 , 1JathaN1, ~Yhfl ®f. nf2e Cii~Gie Now Appea~ng the Mon.- Thurs. · 10 a.m. - 11 p.m. Fri.-Sat. 10 a.m. - 12' a.m. Sun. 10 a.m. - 11 p.m. TIKIS COUPON ·····--·· I • I H~ve a drink on us! 1 I I I · FREE (Pepsi) I I with the purchase of a I 1 3·Decker Club Burger I 1 or,Sea Filet I I I· 1 with the coupon I I I I I• Good only at I I· 135 N ott Terrace I I . 'I E-xpires March 21. I I Bring this coupon todav : ........... . • COUPON ,_'f'\ meeti1 9th, Psych Counl Thi: pm, Earsi~ Richa: about Sugar radio on y01 The offeree reachf Anyot readin attend evenm inSS WR class c betwe1 640kc have t. ProJ Histor will b 10:30 Tuesd: no p arrang Hug at ~ Associ Union recital organ Unior Chape: time \ Bach, Bach,~ Liszt. The series which present The PI ofTob Mozar: Dupre, The on Ma key boa joined for twc harpsic Blanco works 1 Pri 11 cc

CONCORDIENSIS, MARCH 5, 1971 Page 3 .Assassination ·Was A Conspiracy Earn two course credits plus independent study. Oriental Study Program ~ London, Japan, Russia, France. For further infarmation, come to a meeting at 3:30, Tuesday, March 9th, at 3:30 PM, . Room 113 Psych Lab; or see Mrs, Clark in Counseling Center. * * * * This Sunday, March 7, at 9:00 pm, WRUC will present the Earsight Theater's production of Richard Brautigan's much-talked- about work, In Wat4!rmell>n Sugar. The triumphant .retlirn of radio theater: Sunday night, 640 on your .diaL * * * * The evenilig · Hebrew class offered by Hillel, has now reached the conversational stage. Anyone with a background in reading Hebrew is invited to attend. Class is on Wednesday evenings, from 8: 15 to 9;00 p.m. inSS 115. * * * * HUlel . is sponsoring a Purim Party tomorrow night in Hale House, beginning at 8:00 p.m. There will be drinks, refreshments, and songs and dancing, as well as girls from Sage, Skidmore, and Albany State. * * * * Bertolt Brecht's early work, \Baal will be presented by the Mountebanks tonight and Saturday night at 8:30 i!' the Nott Memorial Tli·eatre. Admission is free for Union students. \' \' * * Frederick Douglas Klrpatrick, a noted Black folksinger, wili perform in the Nott Memorial Coffeehouse on Sunday March 7 at-7:30 P.M. Mr. Ki-rpatrick, an ordained Baptist Minister, has been active in Civil Rights for many years. Admission is :free and there Will be free coffee and donuts. * \' * * WRUC announces legitimate \The Large Ensemble Sound,\ class cancelatiolls every morning a concert this Sunday afternoon between 7 and 9 a.m. Tune in to_ at 4:00 P.M. in Memorial 640kc and find out if you really Chapel, will feature the Albany have to get up for that ~:30. Lab Band and tlie Union-Albany P fi B * *k* \' that : Brass Ensemble. T.he Lab B.and is ro essor er announces ·. . . . . H . t · ·1··59 Th s -· t ·p · d. · an 18 p1ece b1g band under the 1 s ory . , .. e . ov1e .eno , d\ . f Th B ill b · s · T rm at uect1.,on o omas . rown. w . · e given pnng e Henry Carr and Dr. James 10:30 to . 11;20, Monday, M · ill- a· t th b' d · · · · d F ··a· orr1s w 1rec e com me Tuesday, Thursday, a.n n ay, b h · · f Alb St t d . · . . rass c 01rs o any a e an no prevmus appomtments or U ·. Th rt - t d · . mon. e conce . 1S presen e arrangements are necessary. b th M · D rt t f * * * * y e us1c epa men s o Hugh Allen Wilson. organist at Memorial Chapel and Associate Professor of Music at Union College, will present a recital of German music for organ on March 14, 1971 .at Union College Memorial Chapel. The pr()gram at that time will include works of J. S. Bach, J. J. Froberger, C. P. E. Bach, Joseph Ahrens, and Franz Liszt. The second program in this series will be on April 18, at which time Mr. Wilson will present French music for organ. The program will include works of Tobias Richter, Vierne, W. A. Mozart, J ehan Alain, Marcel Dupre, and N. deGrigny. . The third concert in this series on May 2 will be music for two keyboards. Mr. Wilson will be joined by Allen Mills in music for two organs and for organ and harpsichord. Music of Soler and Blanco will be featured as well as works for solo organ. SUNY A and Union in cooperation with the: Union College Jazz Workshop. * * * * There will be an organizational meeting for the French Drama Workshop in the Mus~c Room of the Library at 7:30 P.M .. Tuesday March 9. . All interested · are ur,ged to attend. The first play to be worked with is' Ionesco's \Rhinoceros.\ If you callllot attend please contact: Bill Blum, 360 Fox or Barbara McClure, I OJ Richmond. ATTENTION SKIERS Bromley (the sun mt.) stin has lots of snow and special student rates $S wkday (with I.D.) $7 wkend (with I.D.) ,for information call Bruce Kowalski 346-9272 . ·Continued from page. I . modes of investigation of the Warren Conunission and Ute · final results of those investigations.. He referred to \the umbrella man\ who, in the ·famous Zapruder film, appears to open his umbrella just before the shots were fired and closes it after the final shot. The Warren Commission, he noted, did nothing to find the man and his presence was \shunned over like it was poison.\ Saltzman feels that this was a tragic oversight but typical of the Commission's work .. \The assassination was a conspiracy. The conspiracy involved a lot of people,'' Saltzman declared. Fifty-one people, he is sure, wert immediately involved at the site of the murder. A slide was shown of three men standing behind a ledge whose testimony, he said, might have been revealing. No attempt was made to find them. Deliberations ,Continued fro.m ,Page 1 amendments to the Governance Report were approved. The first amendment would give any two student senators the power to place business on the College Senate's agenda. The second proposed change would lower the number needed for successful initiative; under the revision a petition signed by one•third of either the faculty or the student body would result in the placing of an item on the agenda of the College Senate. According to the third amendment, the number of student representatives within the Divisions would be determined on a 3-1 faculty-student ratio. Another amendment was . introduced at the meeting, which proposed that a rotating chair manship system be established regarding the College Senate. This proposal was defeated, with only two affirmative votes. The following members of the ACC were present at the session: Professors. Patrick Allen and Thomas Kirshner, Deans Martin Lichterman and Edward Malloy~ students Ron Aines, Terry McManus, Bob .teittinen, and Mark Klein. PROFESSIONAL TYPING SERVICE IBM Selectric Experience in Doctoral Dissertations; Reasonable Rates; Call462-6283. Jo.--....---~----· -· .. ·~- Waterbeds FRAMING CANDLES • GIFTS Originql Graphics ARTISTS' SUPPLY 163 Jay St. RAY ROGERS Printing Contractor, Inc. · 300 Ninth Street Troy Phone 273-2505 INSTANT QUALITY PlUNTING SPIRAL BlNDING THESES COLLEGE MAtE;RIAL A SPECIALTY A LIQUID LOVE-IN Special Student Price $64 Sold tmlv at KING OF ROSES WATERBEDS FORMERLY NOTT STREET WATERBEDS 250 'LARK STREET ALBANY 434-8390 WE CARRY A FULL LINE OF GROCERIES, MEATS, BEVERAGES, ASSORTED SNACK ITEMS, ETC. MEMBER BUY-RITE STORES OPEN 8 A.M. TILL 10 P.M. 7 DAYS A WEEK 1..--------------~---------- - -- -----------· Other photos show a woman , . Knoll and found a man there taking movies of the limousine as vho showed Secret Service the shots were fired. Again, the :redentials and was allowed to Commission did not bother to 1eave. Subsequent investigation look for her, Saltzman added. revealed that no Secret Service The ramo:.~s Grassy Knoll was agent was in that area at the discussed and films revealed time. The Commission, Saltzman crowds of people looking toward implied, was negligent in not it and then congregating. in that following up this incident. The area. Satlzman noted that man could, he noted, have been seventy percent of the witnesses part of the plot against the called before the Commission president's life. Other questions said that at least one shot came and inconsistencies were from the Knoll. The presented to show thar the Commission's reply was that they Commission~s report is totally were \obviously mistaken.\ unsatisfactory. Saltzman Would A story was related concerning like to know why the apparent l .policeman who rushed to the whitewash took place. · Gati On Ad Hoc Report Continued from Page 1 power ~n the hands of the students) and hopefully wil 1 fulfill these needs. Gati ~ optimistic in this respect; h' stated that the proposal .give. students more power· than ir, 99.9% of American schools, and hopes that because of this, the students at Union will support , the proposals enthusiastically. The procedure for amending and ratifying the governance report was then discussed. Gati stated that there is room for amendment in the report, but that thr. delicate balance of power (between the Administration, Students and Faculty) was the subject of much consideration and study and is therefore not subject to hasty amendments. If the Student Senate wishes to ~tdopt an amendment, it would be passed on to the General Faculty meeting for approval, then to the Administration. The three Deans of the College have signed the report, and Gati stated that it is \fair to assume the President supports the report\ since he has described it as a good report and \certainly is no opposed to it.\ A significant point was tha\ the report was a unani~ous report of the seventeen members, and no block voting occurred. Gati feels that is is unreasonable to assume that the Administration, Faculty and Students will vote in blocks when. the proposals go into effect. A question was raised about the decision to classify an issue as academic or non-academic. Some concern was expressed that the Student Senate could pass a resolution which was· ineffective because it could not be put on the Agenda of the College Senate. Professor Gati answered both of these questions by explaining the Agenda Committee's function. If the Committee receives a resolution from the Student Senate, it can send it back to the Senate for further study, send it to the General Faculty Meeting, or to the Division meetings, or put it on the Agenda. It would not have the option of shelving the resolution. In this way, the Student Senate could not be made powerless because of inability of having its re~olutions acted upon. Assuming that the report is ratified by the Faculty and Administration, its disposition will be in the hands of the Board of Trustees, and will presumably be acted upon in a meeting in June. Gati emphasized that he will do everything he can to \carry out the letter of the report,\ and to assure that no crippling amendments (especially concerning the distribution of power) are passed. The five faculty members and the three deans will work for the ratification of the report, and the President will most likely support the proposals, according to ----- I rPi'ICI. I bril tunny, •ovina Dl•.\-·-- Nightly at 7:30 & 9:30 Andy Warhol presents Joe Dallesandro in Sunday Continuous 3:15-5:15 7:15-9:15

Page 4 CONCORDIENSIS, M~RCH 5, 1971 · Concordy Sports Matme·n, Swi·m, Track All Union Cagers Snubbed By BILL HOLLERAN . . . ·r u·. . . d a., ·fn w· .. ·•eeke. nd Tournaments Just what does it take to make then p.roceeded to select. restnct10ns 1 · ruon recetve. it into a NCAA post-season Montclair and Hartwick for the bid, but the committee decided basketball tournament? That is a ' remaining two berths. · that they wanted to fill the question that hundreds of Garnet \That's the bone of contention tourney field as soon as possible. basketball fans have been asking on my part,\ commented Walters The NCAA does not. want- to themselves since Wednesday, on the wait and see policy ·Of the waste a. tournament bid on a when Union College was selection group. \The extra week school that may not accept the overlooked for a bid to the New should have improved our invitation. York-New Jersey NCAA chances.\ Athletic Director Bruce regional tourney. Why did the selectors snub Allison summed it aU up sadly: I'm very disappointed, and both Union and Albany, \We should have gotten very unhappy for the players,\ apparently the two stronger c?nference .approval .or reacted a nonplussed Gary teams? Hartwick's strong dtsapproval pnor to selection Walters Union's first-year coach. schedule was certainly in their time!' As it was, Union was slow \When 'you do a good job and favor, but Albany's slate was in ~porting their availability a~d you deserve it, you should be the comparable and the Danes even \Presto!\ - no tournament b1d best.\ defeated Hartwick on the for Union. The .Garnet ~rtainly proved to Oneontans' court, 70-66. Coach Walters has had. few most people this season that they Union's supposedly weak kind words for the Colonial ranked with the best small schedule was definitely the Conference restrictions whic~ college teams in the region. The Garnet's biggest handicap in their caused. aU the trouble in the fi-rst Dutchmen played their way to an fight for a berth, basically place. \Champions are being impressive 18-3 record, an because the Dutchmen played discriminated against by this incredible turnabout from last two Canadian teams, Loyala and league,;, he fumed yesterday. \In year's dismal 7-1'5 mark, and Queens, along with hapless Drew the future, we'll have to either were ranked third in New York and Stevens Tech. petition the league presidents State at season's end. (Only \But we didn't let down in earlier or try to do away with the Buffale State and C. W. Post those games and played like we rule. This post-season rule must were rated ahead of the Garnet, were expected to,\ explained be straightened out.\ and no team in the State could Walters. \We kicked the do better than Union's miniscule daylights out of them.\ . ·total ofthree losses.) · ·\Maybe if we hadn't played the Nevertheless the regional Canadian teams,\ he continued, selection committee, chaired by \it might have gone the other Albright .College's Director of way. We were only 16·3 against Althletics Dr. Wilbur Renken, American teams. Maybe we decided to pick 17-4 Montclair should go out and play Syracuse (N.J.) State and 19-5 Hartwick and Cornell instead. and lost for the remaining two bids. Post those games. Then people an Buffalo had' already received wouldn't argue about our weak invitations a week ago. schedule.\ Only Post and Buffalo were As it turned out, probably the selected at the committee's first most important factor in Union's meeting last .. week because the failure to get a bid to the selectors wanted to wait and see tournament was the Garnet's how the remaining contending association with a new and teams would fare in their final prestigious league, the Colonial outings. Conference, which frowns on and The Garnet, of course, downed is trying to prohibit post-season Hamilton 89-81 in their last game play among its members. The of the season, and Albany St. main reason the Garnet did not whipped Utica by 22 points in get a but to the tourney was their second to last start. In their because the NCAA feared Union season finale the Great Danes would not accept the bid if battered Oswego State to close invited, because of the Colonial out the season with a 10-game Conference restrictions. win streak and a 16-5 mark. President Harold C. Martin On the other hand, Montclair offered to petition the league lost to Jersey City and Hartwick executive committee for an was defeated by RIT. Using their exception to the league'.s keen-edged logic, the committee . Tedisco Cops All-Star Nod Union's Jim Tedisco was named last week to the final ECAC all-East Division III All~ Star team. It was 'the 5-7 guard's fifth selection to the squad this season. Tedisco earned the All-Star honors by bucketing 30 points in the Gamet's season fmale, an 89- 81 win over Hamilton College. The junior was instrumental in Union's 18-3 performance this season, their best basketball showing in history. Tedisco also shattered every offensiv~ record at the College this winter, including all single game, season and Memorial Fieldhouse marks. The Schenectady native is Union's all- time leading scorer with 1, 167 points in only two seasons of varsity play. Mermen Fall To Hamilton ·.····FINAL· STATS-.·. By WOODY The Gamet ,grapplers will be· sophomore Tim McCabe have going for ·the New York State turned in strong perfermances invitational title tomorrow at this ·Season in the middle di$tance Rochester lnst.itute of events and should fare well at technology, While the Dutchmen Cortland. Jaszczak and McCabe, swim and track tearns will also be along with sophomore AI in action over ~he, weekend. . Prysunka and junior S te~e Gerry Everhng s wrestlers, who Wood should ·be contenders m fir,tished .their ~ual . meet season , the mite ·relay.. Another Garnet w1th an 1mpr.ess1ve 11~1-1 record, hopeful, junior high jumper Mike have an outstde shot at the team Rich has been . sidelined title in the 16-team ~eet at Rn:. indeffuitely with. an:'ankle injury Fresbman How1e Bened1c~, and will not participate. · • who pasted a 13-1-1 record th1s The Dutchmen swim team ·will season, is rated the top be at St. Bonaventure Saturday Dutchman hope for individual for the New York S\tate honors,· wrestling in the 190 Championships. The' Dutchmen, pound class.. Teammates AI with a 3-7 final record, are not Calabro at 115 and Mark Zullo expected to challenge .for team at 126 should also be seeded on honers but senior Dave Seward the strength ~f 14-1 and 13~2 could finish high in the free$tyle records respectively. . . sprints. · The indoor track team will be , ·· at the . Cortland Invitational Saturday hoping to improve on last year's fourth place finish. Junior Rich Jaszczak and · IT'S NOT TO· LATE TO LEARN ABOUT WINE. Join Our Wine Tasting Club Moffett's Liquor Store (Across The Field) 1505 VanVranken Ave. • .1. ... ' - ' - ' Graubart & Sons ·may run sniall ads, but they hav~ big values. . # ·-_---:_.-:~..ill ~-- ..... 11.....2<'.'.'·'7 ~ ........ ,.._. ... .. . ~. . \!:·~·\\' Sclieaec&ady' a famou · dJa__, sbop, (fw three poenUODS) t&G ~aySt. THREE UNION GRADUATES - FAMil.Y (iGOOOlJJR'-I~~~ers 118 BROADWAY · SCHENECTADY, NEW YORK 12305 (5lB) 374-7550 The Garnet swimming team closed out its dual meet season Wednesday afternoon on a low note with its worst defeat of the year, a 78-35 thrashing at the hands of Hamilton. The Continentals fmished the season at 12-0, while the Garnet ended at 3-7, down significantly from last year's record of 541. Player G FG FGA % FT·FTA % ' Reb. Asst. Pts. Avg. Hamilton put on an impressive show, taking fi·rst place in aU but three of the thirteen events, and sweeping the required diving, 500 freestyle, and 200 yard individual medley, backstroke, and breaststroke. In addition, the Continentals set two new Foote Memorial Pool records. Dave Bently clipped 33.2 seconds off of the old 1000 freestyle mark of 11:47.3, winning the event in II :13.9. Doug Schloerb's time of 2:23.6 in the breaststroke shaved only a mere 0.4 seconds off the previous record. . On the other side of the ledger, junior Tom Klinkow took first place in the 200 free in 2:03.9, and sophomore Steve Hill captured the 100 free with a :53.5. The third Dutchmen win came in the freestyle relay, where various Garnet combinations have maintained an undefeated record this year. Tedisco, Jim 21 Doyle, Mike 2! Bacher, Tom 21 Shames, Dave 21 Walker, Geoff 19 Eichinger, Rein 18 Goldberg, Rich II Bolz, Jim 12 Others 20 Team 21 Opponents 21 175 366 133 224 134 252 63 158 58 123 34 58 15 41 12 31 23 56 .478 .594 .532 .399 .471 .586 .365 165 88 67 29 24 16 '4 211 136 95 41 52 25 7 .782 46 .646 252 .705 180 .707 59 .461 122 .660 44 .571 31 .387 7 11 .636 41 .410 14 37 .378 83 647 1309 .494 414 615 .673 908 43.2 .430 311 468 .665 . 892 42.5 567 1Jl8 SKI SALE. 20%- \50% O·N All •-CLOTHING • SKUS • BOOTS \I • '\ 117 515 27 354 33 '335 74 155 7 140 5 84 8 34 3 31 7 60 280 1708 - 1445 TOWNE MARINE, INC. 2015 CENTRAL AVE. ALBANY TEL. 869•8409 MON-FRI- 9:30 to 9:30 SAT- 9:30 to·S 24.5 16.9 16.0 7.4 7.4 4.7 3.3 . 2.6 3.0 81.3 68.8 A CERTAIN SHIRT (and where to find it l You'll find it here of ·course. From the welter of colors and pattern,s, we've set ourselves the task of finding the certain ones closest to our cus- tomers' tastes. You'll find only the right shirts (ties, too I) right here. We're certain of it. ~ ' ~quirt ~Itnp- . 420 State St. - Open Thul's. 'til 9 •••. . . ;II 1. .,., f.} fl' ~ , • • n: tt c p a: F c ( t I ( I

q,) ftw M;ll , ·~ .. .. \' •• • • Founded • Union Col/flit .1877 ' . ' -. ' - . VOLUME 100 NUMBE-R 35 _SCHENECTADY, NEW YORK MARCH 10, 1971 ~ Price Tw~nty Cents Senate Continues Gouernance Talks Faculty Council Rejects Required Language End · The stupent Senate met last night to continue its 4iscussion of the report of the Ad Hoc Committee on Governance. Preceding this, however, the annc;n.~ncement was made that the. Faculty Council tied on its vote concerning the foreign language requirement. The wh,ole problem was sent back to committees for reworking. A proposa;l was passed, supp.orting the right of Freshmen to have cars third term. Also, names are being . requested by the Committee on Committees for Positions on the Ad Hoc. Committee on the Effective Life ofthe College. The meeting picked up where the last meeting le!t off, with discusslon of the first proposal. Tbe first amendment suggested that the. terms of Faculty members of the College Senate be limited to one year, as opposed to the three years now stipulated, After so.me debate, the vote was called, revealing a 17- I 7 tie, with one abstention. Stu.dent Body President Walt Spencer broke the deadlock, downing the proposaL Several significant amend- ments were passed by the Senate. Suggestions that any College~·S·enator ma~r be 1'eca:lled to stand for re.-,election on a: petitian of 40% of his constituents and that all meetings of the College Senate be open to any intereste4 member of the Union community, were passed by large margins. The· discussion of Proposal 2 of the report yielded two attempts at revision. The Senate - MacKendrick · Convocation The time of the Convocation Thursday has been changed from 11:30 a.m. to 8:00 p.m. in SS16, the speaker will be Professor Paul Mackendrick, the Phi Beta Kappa Lecturer, and he will . speak on the Topic \A Humanist at Bay.\ Paul, Mackendrick is a Professor of Classics at the University of Wis.consin. After post-doctoral studies at Balliol College, Oxford, he began his teaching career as an instructor passed with only three dissenting votes, an amendment giving each ,college committee the right to ch~ose its own chairman_, and to forward ·his name to_ the President for ratification. The report had originally given the President the poWer to choose the committee chairmen. A second ·proposal, to have members of any Presidential Ad Hoc Committee chosen by th¢ appropriate Committee on Committte~s, was defeated by a by PETER DICKERMAN F · 1 c ·1 S · · Th F 1 · C . 1 . ac~ ty ounc1. pencer c1~e~ a knowledge. Spencer acknow- . .e acu ty . ?\.1° 01 • m. a special Student Senate opm10n !edged that the learning m.eetmg held :ruesday afternoon, sample, which showed that 77 of foreign languages IS cli~xe~ anf~nvolved de.bate. by percent of 1300 replying students educationally valuable, but the votmg, m e ect,. to reJect ~he favored abolition of the language same can be said concerning proposal to abo~sh . the foreign requirement. He explained that many other subjects which are la~g~ag~ reqUirement. !he there exist several major not academically required. reJeetwn, actually a recomm•t.tal argumepts against retention of After Spencer's talk, Dean to t~e Curncul~r Affatrs the present language Martin Lichterman officially Cof!lnnttee, was. decided on ~he requirement. Firstly, Spencer moved the abolition proposal, :basis of a tie vote wh1ch t d h h'J h. l · · 1 · · f d. · p . ;d H ·· · . no e t e p. 1 osop 1ca pos1t10n p acmg tt open or ascusswn. rest ent. arold C. .Martm that educatiOn to the fullest Professor C.W. Huntley, refused to brea·k t t f th h · ld 'b D' · · III Ch · d narrow margin. For Proposa.l 3, the D' . . · , . ex en o . e term s ou e av1saon aarman, propose ~scuss10n of .. the langu~ge devoid of coercion. Furthermore, that the proposal be separated. re~u~r;ment ~bohtton began wtth Spencer stated that many that is, to detach the abolition of ~ r~~ spe~ by Student Senate students here take a foreign requirements from the proposal h r~si. ent alter Spencer, ~ho language course merely to to place language courses under t: r~huested and k had receiVed complete the requirement, not Comprehensive Education. This recommendation that the necessary size of a petition caJling for a referendum he reduced. from one-thivd of either e ng t to spea before the for tlie accumulation of motion to separate the proposal Abolition of Language Requirement ~~~n~~e:asa~~~~:\?~~~s wti~~ . . . . . · the proposed abo h taon of Rejected By Divisions I and II :z.i;~~~:;·,:\~~: Co~~~ -· regarding faculty sentiment. Divisiqns II a,nd I, in meetings proposed by the Curricular Governance Report has received Divisions 1 and I I had bot It held Friday . and Monday Affairs Committee, approached a favorable initial reception from rejected the proposal, while it respectively, both rejected a the foreign language problem most members of the College had received endorsements from proposal to abolish the foreign from a rather unique standpoint. community. Gati then listed Divisions III and IV. language requirement. In both Professor Frederick Klemm, various aspects of the new Professor Robert Sharlet sessions, lengthy discussion of Chairman of the Department of governance model which he stated that \I am against the the foreign language issue had Modern Languages, submitted believes will strengthen the status-quo\ on the language the effect . <>L precluding full . an;;.;Uternati\'e mo~ion stating that position of the faculty. These issue, but he said that serious consideration of the Governance all students in Divisions I, II, and changes include the following: \procedural objections\ would Report. III be required to take one term there will be two faculty prevent him from voting for this The Division II meeting began of a foreign language. This would members serving on the Board of proposaL Professor Sharlet's with the unanimous election· of serve to fulfill the foreign Trustees; a Faculty Committee prime objection seemed to be · Profel)sor Manfred Jonas to language requiremeJ;J.t, regardless O!l Committees will appoint that the proposal offers no assume the post of Division ohhe grade received. faculty members to various constructive alternatives to Chairman; Jonas Will complete Professor Klemm claimed that committee slots; the Committee complete abolition. Professor the term in office to which the that the Ad Ho~ Committee on on Budget and Priorities will be William Martin expressed late Professor Sherwood Fox the Foreign Language chaired by a faculty member; all concern over the possible effects was elected. · Requirement \has not truly committee reports will go directly of abolition on the College's Faculty members present, who represented the feelings of the numbered approximately twenty- faculty or even the students.\ five, went on to consider the Professor Paul LeClerc then merits of eight new courses listed the statistical findings of approved . by the Curricular the faculty-student poll on Affairs Committee.. Seven of foreign languages. In his view, these courses, involving history, the majority of the College political science, and philosophy, community desires change, not were approved without objection. abolition, of the requirement. However, a proposed course in Professor Klemm noted that the \Contemporary Economic Modern Language Department Issues\ was criticized by several faculty voted unanimously for members of the Economics modifica~ion of the existing Department as little more than a requirement. Music From Marlboro In Weekend Concert repetition of introductory Objections to this alternative economics courses. Action on motion were generally focused on this proposal was deferred. the principle of free choice, and The next order of business the belief that such a requirement concerned the recommendation would be too minimal to have of the Ad Hoc Committee on the substantial value. Dean Foreign Language. Requirement, .Lichterman doubted the that 'this requirement be desirability of retaining academic abolished. Professor JQseph requirements \against a Finkelstein, who served on the continuing trend.\ The original committee, and Dean Martin proposal to abolish the Lichterman both attempted to requirement entirely was rejected defend its con<;\usions, but they by the wide margin of 18-2, with were clearly in the minority. 4 abstentions. Professor Klemm's ~ There was widespread concern substitute motion was then voiced over the future of high approved by a vote of 1.5-5, with school language programs and five abstentions. \MUSIC FROM MARLBORO\ artists who will perform at Union College on March 12 are (from left): Nobuko lmai, Craig Sheppard, Nathaniel Rosen, Richard \ Stoltzman, and Isidore Cohen. at l>hillips Academy. Besides teaching in this country, he has served as director of the School of Classical Studies of the American Academy in Rome, of which he is now a trustee. Among his more popular texts; which cover th~ foundations of, Western civilization, are The Roman Mind at W t.;~rk, The Athenian Arist~cracy, and The l.,erian Stones Speak. this College's foreign study At each of the Division programs should the language meetings, the subject of requirement be abolished. Others governance was relegated to a spoke of the intrinsic and unique comparatively few minutes. \cultural value\ of foreign Professor Charles Gati, who language study. Pr.ofessor chaired the Ad Hoc Committee Stephen Berk asserted that the on Governance 1 spoke at both • drive for abolition of language sessions. Student Senate r~uirements represents a \fad President Walter Spencer told which students will regret in Division II of student support for future years. When the vote was the Governance Report, while taken, the proposal to abolish the John Witherspoon, '73, foreign language requirement performed the same function was defeated 12 to 7, with 4 before Division I faculty. abstentions. Professor Gati, in delivering a Division I, afier unanimously virtually identical talk to both approving all the new courses meetings, noted that the Music From Marlboro, a chamber musk ensemble composed of outstanding artists . appearing at the summer music festival in Marlboro, Vt., will present a concert at Union this coming Friday, March 12. The concert, to be given in Memorial Chapel, will begin at 8:30 p.m. The program is the latest in the series sponsored by the college and the Schenectady Museum. Appearing for the concert, which is under the artistic direction of Rudolf Serkin, will be Craig Sheppard on piano; Richard Stoltzman on clarinet; Nathaniel Rosen on cello; Nobuko I mai on viola; and Isidore Cohen on violin. Cohen was at Union in late February, playing wit~ the Beaux Arts Trio of New York. Scheduled for the Friday program are Beethoven's \String Trio in G Major, Op. 9, No. I\; Bartok's \Contrasts\; and Faure's \Piano Quartet in C Minor, Op. 15.\

• \Page 2CONCORDIENSIS, MARCH 10, 1971 ~-:'\. . !::.110 :.J~l~ Q!itnrnr ~:3;,; lltrnsis .,t. ·\.~( ..... ~ .. Maa.PI!Edltor James E. Stewart News Editor Louis S. Snitkoff A.oc. News Editor Peter Dickerman Features Editor Daniel Schochet Layout Editor Doug Wong ~ Peter J. Wcinsold 'blae•M.aaer Lloyd Birns AIM. \•' en Maaapn Joseph Achenbaum Doug Binder National Adv. ·Mar. Mark Shulman Sports Editor William J. \Holleran Asst. Sports Editor Mark Shugoll Editon Emeriti William Ouzcr Henry G. Fein Ccin1ributia& Editor Richard L. Kramer Photop'apby Editor Jody Saslow Alit. Photocnp~y Editon Charles Long Dave Conrey . . l'ubli!lhed luadap and t'ridlrl\' durin\! tho: ochool year hy 11\e st~M~cnl. body· (II tlnion.\CnlleJie. Schencclady. N.Y .• 'llatMUIIII Advertising Ref'reo~e~tllltive. N•tii>nlil EdiiQitto-nal t\dYCrtlliill¥ !M:rvic:le. In<:.. (\ollcac 1'\ihlishcr, Reprnentativ~. 3tA l.uington fl.ve .• N.V.C F..ditocial olfoa:. Old Ciym. Utti<!n Collql:. Puhlir;alioo Olf~tt. The Wortd 1'\ibliattioft.._ 771 Slllt~ Slft>et .• Sc:hene<:tady. N.Y. 12lll1. )46.. 23St.. I.McRld an the Sc:heacctlody poll oiTooe as Second Cllll\l Mail Maller !whscnptHIII 20 o:nts a C<lfll'· Sf. a :IC\' dclivo:rcd ilnywhcn:' in the Un~ SUI~ .._ __ There have been nothing but specious arguments presented in Divisions I and II and the Faculty Council, for retention of the foreign language requirement. In this blossoming age of a faculty-administration awareness of students as serious participants in the governance of the college, and at a time when \relevance\ is being striven for and the \free university\ is being glimpsed, it is difficult to understand the fac.ulty rationale behind rejecting the abolition of the requirement. Except for the comp~ ed. program which has been radically liberalized in the strictness of its required courses, there are no required courses except in a specific major, and even majors may revolve around themes of the student's choosing. Why, then, should a student with no interest be forced to take foreign language courses? The foreign language department and the foreign study programs would not suffer unless they have become deadweight, no longer of interest to students. In view of the recent large increase in inquiries about junior year abroad programs and the success of the one term comp. ed. programs in France, Austria, and Colombia, there seems to be no case for the requirement being based on the fear that the d.epartment will immediately close down if required language 1s abolished. If, however, the true feelings of the faculty members are that students don't really know what they want or what is best for them in this instance, then dangerous ground is being trod upon. This is the very same attitude so loudly decried in other academic and non-academic fields _here. If the programs .,are not appealing to students, they should be dropped, regardless of whether or not two terms of required language may or may not be. an \important part of human development.\ There is no question that foreign language study is interesting and beneficial to some, but there is also no question that to argue that it should be required because of the havoc its abolition might wreak on high school language programs is ridiculous and irrelevant. If there is serious concern among the faculty, and we do recognize, generally, a larger field of experience there than among students, that the study of a foreign language is beneficial and worthwhile, then the requirement should be abolished and a workable, attractive, elective program should be worked out with an emphasis on foreign study programs ... But the implication of the present abolition rejection, that there is worth in the program as it now stands, 1s unacceptable. IT'S NOT TO LATE TO LEARN ABOUT WINE. Join Our Wine Tasting Club Moffett's Liquor Store (Acro~s The Field) 1505 VanVranken Ave. I I I BRING YOUR DATE Jackets Rtquired 1617 Union St. Scb'dy Headshops: New Display of ttCapitalism In BeUbottoms\ by RAY KRISE, JR. The headshop falls int. same category as recorc<i ,.,f , . music, in that it is a pa. · ~; ·' ·. the counter-culture as the> for money in return for what you want. What the counter-culture is into, as I wish you all knew, is that everything should be free and available. Things like headshops and dope dealers fall under the heading of vanguard capitalism, which could cynically be defined as capitalism in bellbottoms (e . .g., the Fillmore), but is more nicely defined as capitalism for the purpose of helping to support those mem§;ers of the counter-culture who ''refuse to get jobs in the straight world. Once you get over the obstacle of their shaky philosophical basis, however, headshops are a real gas. I mean, they have all this stuff you've always been looking for but never been able to find. Like pipes. If you've always been into j's, try a hookah, especially _ one with several hoses, enough so that aU of your friends can have one. Not only does it help to foster a greater feeling of community, but with aH those people sucking, the pipe always stays lit! Or you can get into stuff like having just one· guy suck and the rest all 'blow gently (not too hard, or the water'll -go _up into the bowl; To the Editor: The vote of the Faculty Council to send back to Committee the proposals dealing with the foreign language requirement does not represent a defeat of .the Student Senate position. Rather, it represents a rebuff of the Curricular Affairs Committee and the lack of supporting material fot their proposals. It is unfair to ask the Faculty Council fo legislate such a major Curricular change on the basis of a six line proposal. The idea of granting Comprehe.nsxve Education credit for language courses certainly needs more study than it has received. Two fundamental facts remain. First, students are going to learn language when they are motivated to do so. Many are not motivated by the present requirement. Even those who are motivated do not develop a fluency by taking one thirty level FERRO· PHARMACY 575 NoH Street Schenectady, N. Y. FR 7-0510 One bloclc from BrowneU Gate I The Best Wines & Liquors 10% OFF For Students Sol ·tipstein LIQUORS, Inc. f 827 McClellan St. I Schdy. 372-0386 }· which is a real bummer). And if pipes don't get to you at all, checking out all the different ·vpes of ·papers--chocolate, •, heat, flag--is a real trip, too. I should parenthetically admit that any refeFences te the taking of illegal drugs is strictly second- hand. I got all this stuff from Ernie Lundquist. Once you're beyond the range of smoking paraphernalia, it's difficult to .generalize about headshops. Some of them will be real schlock, superhype places like the Crystal Mansion, with all these clothes ahout the same quality {and design) as your first Hallowe'en costume. These are the kind ofplaces you find fat 13- . year~old girls from Long Island draggin,g mom and dad thtQugh, :H~ying, \i want that, hippies use that.\ The best way to approaj;:h these places is not at all. Then there's the general- , purpose headshop, built around no real theme, j:ust with intere~ting stuff lying around. Surprisingly, Schenectady has two of these-Escape Productions (next to the lovely bus station, of all places), and The Other Side of Today (on Jay Street). Both of these places are run by really nice people wha aren't out to rip anybody off. Escape Productians has probably the best selection of pipes around, and also a model Led Zeppelin; they're expecting course. Second, many students have been waiting to plan spring term schedules until the Faculty Council met. The Faculty does have a responsibility to make every possible effort to arrive at a decision prior to spring term registration. Sincerely, Walter A. Spencer Jr. Student Senate President an electric pipe in 1 soon, which l think is sorta decadent. The Other Side of Today is in business to raise money to build a \theater on its second floor, something Schenectady could c.ertainly use. Also, they. sell tickets for aU Palace Theater concer~-the closest suc\1 outlet to this schoot My favorite headshop, though, is where all the stuff has been made by the people who own it. The one I'm thinking .of now is in Syracuse, New York, and it's called Dragon Emporium, and if you're ever stuck in Syracuse, you owe it to your sot~l to check this place out. Maybe i like it best because it's · not really capitalism (you're getting money for your own work); maybe I like it 'cause it helps to support . skilled people who otherwise'd have to work for GE or something, maybe I just like }?.andmade stuff--any of those reasons is valid, you can choose· your own. It's just such a kick to buy something from the man who actually made it.\ Like you can talk to him about it and he'll know everything about it there is to know, and he can fix it if it · e.ver messes up, only those kind of things--whether they're clothes, candles, jewlery or soap- somehow never ever seem to mess tip-they're too honest. I guess that's the key to the difference between a good and a bad headshop (or a good and a bad anything)--whether it's honest or not. I have never found an honest headshop where the people running it were anything short of beautiful, and that's not something I say lightly. It's not an easy existence. You catch shit from the cops, you catch shit from ·the neighborhood. Sometimes you get beat up. Sometimes you get ripped off. But you're making people happy, sometimes with the products of your own hands. Y au can's ask for a better life than that. WATERBEDS ARE HERE Therapeutic-Comfortable-Fun Everynight (Special Student Prices) KING OF ROSES WATERBED SHOP (Formally \Knox Street Waterbeds East\) 250 Lark Street, Albany 434-8390 Raffle f\Very week-Winner drawn for free night at the Hyatt House o_n a Waterbed. Free entry Blanks at shop ...... .. EXCLUSIVE ENGAGEMENT! --~~~~-------~----- Opening APRIL 16th -ONE WEEK Only . At The PALACE in Albany MAIL ORDERS P·ROMPTLY ·FIL.LED CHECK DATE WANTED -------------· PLEASE NOTE ALTERNATE DATE: QFRI. Apr.16at B::iO ----~--~-----~-~- I QSAT.Apr.17at 6:00 ALL PRiCES EXCEPT SUNDAY MATIN.EE QSA T, Apr.17at 10:00 ORCHESTRA: $8.50, $7.50,$6,00- LOGE: $8.50 QSUN.Apr.18ot 7:30 . .DA LCONY: Lower S7 .50, $6.00- l:Jpper $3\.50 QSUN.Apr.,l8ot 2:30 ....... ~ .......... ·- --~~~- ----- ·-----·. SUNDAY MATINEE $LOO loss In AU Cotogorles QMON Apr.19at 8:3.0 Mall Payable Tot AMERICAN THEATRE LEAGUE, Inc .• 0TUE'Apr.20at 9:30 QWt::D Apr,21 at 8:30 . r.o. Bor 901, Scttenectadr 12301 I Send me . . tickets @l $ . each I aam d ·• · nvaloe. pt , ••II addraSiad • £nc oaa a I p I I I I Name.,.... -----------Phone--.. _ ___, __ 1 . IAddreaa . I laity · · · State . Zip . -·I ~-----~-~----------~ < - ' • • • w:l \'') . I'\, fi·' ~ 1.. ·<111 ~i ,, _ ... -.~ i r·j ~~~ •: ~ g. I~ ~I . I ,, l 1 i '\' ~1 ;(, j \ ! ! ~} ' ~J ,, I ~_; ; \f ., I. ·-· ; of!, • ~ .... .l! \ • ..., ~ \.l' ~ * ~ ... ..!i' (· ] l (; ' i c t t ' ! ] e c p a Sl d tl 0 p 0 r· ·d c \1 b y y [ it d it fc l< a p E 0 tc g \ 0 II e: \' y b Sl p it tl E Sl h rl 1 E fl - -

ec::lt .... p ' r J ;, ~ 1 1 •. ill ,. ,, .. _ ... \ .\ i~~ !c< g. ,, ~ £1 ll· • I 'I l' ,, (I .r _. ~ ,y, * I I ~} ttl ~ ' ~) :I Iii· ·-~ ' \f ~· , I •-\ f 4'· ,) l·j ( I I I CONCORDIENSIS, MARCH fO, 1971 Page· 3 . .... PASSIONATE WORDS OF A CHRISTIAN FELLOW Editor's Note: The following is an explanation of the convictions of a student who wishes to be identified only ·as a \Union Christian.\ We feel an article of this type is the only fair editorial treatment of the Inter-Varsity Christian Fellowship. * * * * wonders of the divine reality and truth. · There is one who p;assionately wants you. Who caUs you. Whose arms are outstretched to you. Who would lead you as a shepherd would lead his beloved flock. Who has a perfect path for you ~ if only the foolish pride be surrendered - the path which There is something in the air. you were meant to traVel and There has been some love, and upon which ·only he can take some peace, and. some sensitivity you. This is his world. Although and some talk of human worth. there is another whG now has :Eyes are even turning to God many ·of us .. And ·it pleases God once more - and now Jesus is to reach us through the coming back. And the Holy foolishness of preaching - I Spirit is talking to our hearts don't know why! So come along. once again. And this time - ate Think, Trust. Love. But don't we going to listen? Are we· .really prejudge cause if you going to get it ALL together? sincerely and humbly seek the How do you love? Lord's. face you are going to be I rea.lly needed help _ and lovingly shocked . enough satisfaction-Just was not Now he teaches me- to live coming. I mean, this was my life. with you and the wori:d and And being lonely and push~d myself. He talks with me and he about and unable to give is my God. something and worse _ lacking And one day we will all stand and naked. And if we are not ready, our consciences will go off like sirens. And if there is one thing for which you are responsible it's yourself. Forget about the - Christian hypocrites, Jesus is talking to you. Why not become your brother's keeper. Love. Why not spend eternity within the Living Truth - in the presence of the Lord. Seek and ye shall find. You will see many Jesus people. Some happier than others. But there is one thing you will notice about a sincerely saved child of God ~ we all have Jesus. And life. And rivers of living water; Of course we are just learning - but we have got eternity. Praise the Lord. Amazing Grace. Blessed are the pure in heart, for they shall see God. As Paul wrote, Be ye therefore followers .of God, as dear children, And walk in love, as Christ also has loved us, and given himself for us. This weekend's Coffeehouse concert has been moved to Saturday March 13, at 8:30 p.m: in N ott MemoriaL The free coffeehouse will feature Barbara Michela, AI Cohen, Bob Bernhardt, Paul Andrews, Paul Delfin and.others. * * * * The American Telephone and Telegraph Company will have a recruiting representative in the Placement Office on Thursday, April I, 1971 for the purpose of recruiting for their summer management program. Qualifications are Bachelor's or Master's Degrees in Engineering, Physical Sciences, Liberal Arts and Business Administration who have one year of study remaining and have an above average scholastic record, male or female. If you are interested in this employment, sign up in the Placement Office for an interview, and sign up early. * * * * Opportunity for a rewarding experience is being offered by the Eleanor Roosevelt Develop- mental Services for those who wish to help mentally retarded people. It may involve as much time as you can offer in doing recreational work, tutoring, or socialization either in a one-to-one basis or in a group. There is a great need for you anytime. Call Miss Mary Ellen Downs at 372-6477 (leave a message if she isn't there) and she will place you where you are most suited and needed. Immediate help is needed to work this Wednesday and Friday anytime during the day; transportation will be provided. For · further information or questions call Marie Bednar at 346-9212. * * * * On Tuesday March 16, the Cercle Francais will present the film \Ruy Bias\ at 7:30 p.m. in SSOI6. * * * * defini~e existential meaning ... all. before him, and yet each alone thiswasadrag.Anditallhurt. Th . ''F. ht f th c t '' E d w·th ou;s~~ve~ef~ea~lygos~~ ~~:~e.:~~ e .. · lg .• ·. 0 e en ury n S • I This Saturday the Garnet track team will host the Union Invitational. Eighteen teams are expected to participate in the meet, which gets underway at I 0 a.m. And feel joy! And look at F' . ' T v o· F lf·l·l d ~:~~~~; 5 rro~a~hiswt~ t~~f~n~t~~ raz1er S . · en- ·ear ·. ream . U. I • e . ·deep where Jesus would take us. by MIKE MESSEROLE \ALI ALI,ALI\ rolled up to the . Can you find yourself? Are you The fight was over. Joe ring from the far reaches of the who you really ought to Frazier, his body exhausted and mezzanine. . These were Ali's be want to be? Can you find his face painfully inflated after supporting actors, and as the yourself? Are you grounded in fifteen of the hardest rounds· the fight progressed, \the people's yourself? Can you stand yourself? Heavyweight Championship has champion\ was playing to his Do you. ignore yourself? Guilt - ev~r seen, turned away from people; wagging his head \no\ it will only go inward, driving Muhammad Ali and faced his every time it looked as. though deeper - till you can't even see manager, Yank Durham, who he'd been hit, patty-caking his it- but its got to you. And you had ascended the ring with the gloves in Frazier's face, and feel it. How's your heart? Do you final bell. - insisting on staying on the ropes love me? Do you love yourself? The look on Durham's face to prove that he could take And .I had failed myself, and told the whole story; Joe Frazier anything and' ev.erything failed you; hurt you and failed was finally the undisputed _.Smokin' Joe could cook up. The my ideals and goals. I didn't Heavyweight Champion of the fans loved it. really knoW it - but I was World, apd Durham, wh,o had For Frazier, the only avoiding myself. That's guilt. takep. a young, overweight, part- supporting actor was Ali, and That is what sin is all about. time slaughterhouse . employee with Joe, the supporting cast was Deep inside, deeper than I under his wing ten years ago in a to be punched apart, not realized, - I knew my guilt and musty South Side Philadelphia entertained. However, at one was desperately trying to get gym, was beaming like a father point in the fifth round, Joe around it - and away from as Joe threw his punch-weary suddenly dropped his guard and myself. ,arms around his neck and they yelled \Hit Me!\ letting Ali But God would speak to me embraced each other in front of bounce a volley of his best shots and try to lay hold on his 300 million people. The decision off his face. The crowd; tiring of prodigal son: people, the Holy was academic, they knew they Ali fooling around on the ropes, Bible, my thoughts. The mystery had won. started turning to Frazier. By the of the Holy Spirit. And one day I The slugger had beaten the eleventh round, when Frazier took my whole self to the cross boxer in the super-heralded hooked two left fists off Ali's jaw - where he had born my own \Fight of the Century\ that had, and sent the former champion guilt. The guilt I could never indeed, been just that. lp. a fight reeling around the ring in a daze, work out. The guilt we took out that provetl beyond a shadow of the crowd was· shouting on him when we killed the a doubt, the courage and stamina ''JOE,JOE,JOE,\ innocent one. Aqd kill others. of both fighters, Joe Frazier had Ali, who was piling up points We steal from each other. Lie beaten Muhammad Ali in a by working over Frazier's face to each other. Seek to impress unanimous decision. More and then losing them by each other~ Hurt each other. And importantly, however, it was the initiating the clinches and letting we need each other so badly. And determined Frazier who defeated Joe box him into the corners, you can say we are getting better, the multi-tracked AlL To Ali, came back in the twelfth, and but. . . _ t!lis was a fight of great social going into the fifteenth and final We ignore one another. - and political significance that he round had Frazier's left eye starvation, sickness, loneliness. had to win for his black brothers swollen and closing. But the And it's you. And it's me. And and sisters, and the people of the fifteenth . was Joe's round, it's the nature of his game. Yes, world in general.. In the process, reaching back to the farm for a the devil just open your eyes. he unfairly lal;>eled Frazier an devastating left hook and jack- But there is JesuS'.;, , , · ~· • · ' - ·.· · , · ··''Uncle Tom,\ and a \white man's And he came to me in a special champ.\ Frazier, on · the other way · - and told me that hand, saw the fight as one man everythill,g· ;Was alright - that I against--another, period. All the was_ forgiven ::_._ and to follow people in the world did not him. Out of Divine mercy, for matter come fight time, because some reason unknown to me, I then it would be just Joe and Ali, have been allowed to see the and· Joe never forgot that. <l:uuto9r. hammering it into Ali's right jaw, dumping him to the canvas and later to the hospital for x-rays. Up immediately, Ali had the look of a loser for the first time ever, professionally. Frazier continued to offset Ali's reach advantage by fighting in close, but it was just a matter of time now before the title would be entirely his. When the bell finally sounded, Frazier lifted his arms and hugged Yank Durham while Ali walked slowly to his corner. Everybody watching the fight, even the ones who said the next day that Ali should have won, knew that he was no longer \the greatest.\ Blame it on his 3V2 years out of the ring, or his ·childish taunting of Frazier, or whatever you like. But the fact is, that Ali didn't lose the fight, Joe Frazier won it, and he won it because it's all he has thought about for the last ten years. ··ICE fAPADES THE SHOW FOR ALL SEASONS * * * * A First Aid Course will be offered by the Athletic Department next term. If you are interested please contact Coach Gentile in his office at the gym * * * * Union College music professor High Allen Wilson will give a recital of German music ·for organ Sunday, March 14 at 4 p.m. in· Memorial Chapel on the campus. Featured in the program will be selections from Bach, Froberger, Ahrens and Liszt. The recital is the first of three Prof. Wilson has scheduled for the spring. The second program, featuring French selections will be given April 18 and the third, will be held May 2 with organist Allen Mills joining Wilson in a concert for two keyboards. All three programs are open to the public with no admission charged. TUES., MARCH 30 through SUN., APRIL 4 EVENINGS: Tues. thru Thurs. • 8 P.M. Fri. 8:30 P.M. • Sat. 9 P.M. MATINEES: SundClY • 2 P.M. and 6 P.M. PRICES: $5.00, $4.50, $4.00, $3.50 Youths (18 yrs. & under) HALF PRICE thru Thursday l\I Schenectady tickets at Boston Store - Mohawk - Troy - Field House Box Office open Mon. through Sat. 9 A.M. to 5 P.M. For information nearest Ticketron Agency call 270-6262. _.:._ NO PHONE ORDERS. RPI FIELD HOUSE, Troy, N. Y. 12180 Mon.-Thurs. 10 a.m. - 11 p.m. Fri.-Sat. 10 a.m. - 12 a.m. Sun. 10 a.m. - 11 p.m. COUPON .......... I • I Have a drink on us! 1 reality of God, of faith, of Christ. At the pre-fight weigh-ins and The truth of his word - the the closed-circuit TV interviews Bible. There have been little prior to the main event, Ali was flowers most every day. Strange customarily confident and ============:::· boiSterous \I'm gonna straighten 135 ·Nott· Terrace I I' I FREE (Pepsi) 1 l I with the purchase of a I I I 3-Decker Club Burger I l I or Sea Filet I i Students who are planning to this Pless out,\ and predicted that take Mr. Peck's Introduction To Frazier would \fall in 6\ after Ali Shakespeare (English 145) in the had properly exposed him for the Spring Term, should be aware of amateur he was.· In contrast, · the following requirements of the Smokin' Joe calmly replied to the course: each student will be prediction saying, \He's entitled asked to choose a passage of to say what he wants, you know? some 20-40 lines from each of the All I can say is that Clay's gonna six plays on the reading list, know he's fightin' a man.\ · which he will a) commit to When the bell rang for Round memory and, b) write a 2-4 page One, Frazier was psychologically commentary upon. In other the underdog. The Madison words, the course requirements Square Garden crowd had include six plays to read, six greeted Ali with a thunderous short essays to write, and six ovation when he. entered the ring, passages to memorize, as well as but acknowledged Frazier's a final exam. \ appearence with boos. Shouts of I •I 1 with the coupon I I I I Good only at I· I 135 Nott Terrace · I I ·1 Expires March 21 I 1 Bri~g this coupon today : ........... . COUPON

- Page 4 CONCORDIENSIS, MARCH lO, 1971 I, 11 Keep Languages • ·Continued from pace 1 to the College Senate, rathet· than to the President; a Committee on Liason and Governance will be established, with the power to evaluate tbe performance of administrators on a ' 1 regular basis;' 1 the Presi<l.ent's veto power will extend only to budgetary questions; and a Rese1!;rch Committee will regulate the distribution of research funds. discussion was: needed before. any definite commitment should be made. Professor Jonas then proposed that J)ivision II meet again on Friday, March 12, and this was approved, There wete several substantive objections voiced by Divisicm ·I. faculty. These includ.ed an objection to the so•called \two- tiered•• committee system., The Social Committee presents Seatrain in concert in Memorial Chapel on Friday night; April 2, at midnight. Tickets are $3 in advance, and $3.50 at the door. Tickets will be placed on sale Monday, March 29 at the Student Activities office. Seatrain features an interesting sound with jazz ./lute; electric violin and guitar, as well as ?ass, keyboard and drums. Their diversity of talent affords the group great flexibility in terms of sound and style. Professor Gati stated that amendments to the Repqrt are not unwe'lcome, and that several may prove useful. However, Gati emphasized that the basic \equilibrium between faculty, students, and admirti.stration\ is. a crucial element of the Report, __ artd therefore should not be tampered with. He urged that the faculty be aware of the e~istence of different interests within the College. Professor Finkelstein moved that Division II accept the Governance · Report ''in principle.\ Howevl'!r, it was the consensus view that further ·meitii.ng the establishment of subcommittees, as overly \cumbersome.'' One professor· disapproved of the plan to elect student members of the. College Senate on the basis of DivisiQnal affiliation, while another qilestioned why the President should nave the power to ap.point committee chairmen. Division I Chai~man Profes!;or Carl Niemeyer announced that ,governan~e discussion will continue at the next meeting, scheduled for Monday~ March lS. According to present plans, the. ·general faculty wiU start to vote·· on prov,isions of the Governance Report itt their More Faculty Council ... Continued from Page 1 foreign study programs. Professor Frederick Klemm, who is Chairman of the Department of Modem Languages, noted that, aside from Division IV, the vast majority of faculty voted against total abolition of the language requirement. Professor Klemm stressed that his department favors modifications, but still feels that students should be exposed to foreign languages on the college level in order to secure a \broad enough base\ for future languag(!_ programf. He admitted that no solution to this problem appears entirely satisfactory. Dean Lichterman, speaking in favor of the proposal, called Klemm's argument \not very persuasive,\ and Professor Daniel Driscoll questioned the need for special treatment for foreign languages. Professor Carl Niemeyer countered by asserting that \language is an important part of human development, .. a real educational experience. Professor Sharlet added that social scientists see language primarily as a \tool\ for better perception. ~one of the participants in the discussion doubted the educational worth of fareign languages, but the real issue in dispute appeared to Senate on Governance Continued from Pa~e I the students or faculty to one- fifth was carried by a large vote. A second point on that same section, calling for the elimination of a Presidential voice in the consideration ·of a referendum, was clearly defeated. Proposal 4 of the report produced more suggestions for change than any other section outside of the first. A motion to change the suggested ratio of voting students at departmental meetings was approved, so that representation would be one student in departments of three or fewer, two students in departments of four to six members, three students in those with seven to nine faculty, and four students voting in departme.nts with more than nine faculty members. In addition, motions that departments having more than one student representative would have both junior and senior students, and that all departmental meetings (excluding executive sessions) would be open to anyone interested were also passed. Suggestions that student representation in departments be made equal to faculty minus one, and that sophomores be eligible for election as student representatives to the departments were both defeated. Finally, ~n amendment was brought up· concerning Proposal 5, dealing with student representation on the Board of Trustees. It was proposed that the term of student members be extended from two to four years: from June of sophomore year to June, two years following graduation, with full voting priviliges to be conferred at the time of graduation. There was a great' aeal of support .for this, and it was passed with only 3 opposing votes. At the conclusion of the meeting, the Senate passed a resolution, identical to that of the All~College Council: \We highly endorse the report of the Ad Hoc Committee on Governance. We compliment the Committee on its comprehensive, well-thought-out report. We consider it a workable and forward-looking model for: governance at Union in the l970 1 s.\ Only four Senators were opposed to the resolution. RAY ROGERS Printing Contractor, Inc. 300 Ninth Street Troy Phone 273-2505 INSTANT QUALITY - PRINTING SPIRAL BINDING THESES COLLEGE MATERIAL A SPECIALTY SHAFFER - GRIMM BUILDING SUPPLY CO. incorporated Lumber & Mason Supplies Fixed or Adjustable bookshelves Available 315 Green .. Street · at Erie Boulevard, Schenectady Near Alco FR 7-2239 VIe Deliver Stop at our show room for help & service. involve the realism of maintaining special requirements. The actual vote on the motion to abolish the language .requirement was a 5-5 deadlock, with four abstentions. President Martin then stated that this was essentially a faculty matter, and therefore he Would not vote on it. A subsequent motion to recommit this proposal to the Curricular Affairs Committee was approved by a vote of 8-5. In other action, the Council unanimously approved seven of the eight new courses submitted by the Curricular Affairs Committee, dealing with history and philosophy. A course in \Contemporary Economic Issues\ was tabled due to opposition within Division II. Dean Licterman presented an emergency proposal to allo'\¥ students in Sociology 10 to take the course on a pass-fail basis, due to Miss Beechy's extended illness. This was passed without dissent. Martin Abramowitz, Director of the Upward Bound program, was appointed to the faculty by the Council, in a move necessitated by state law. Immediately · prior to adjournment, President Martin announced that several members of the faculty will meet with the Committee on Salaries, Promotion, and 'Tenure, presumably for a discussion of that committee's operations. DIAMANTE'S Enjoy Our Fine Home Cooked ltolion Food in Ou• Cbmfortabte Oining Room Opp. The BroYt.nell G~e on Nott Street Open Daily I 0 to I A.M. Slffldavs 5 P.M. to 1 A.M. ~For three Generations.' fhose Who Know ... Have been recomm~nding • · Match ·16 meeting. . ..... Starts FRIDAY M~~cH E\clusive Area Showing Fr .. Sat Su·n 2:30-4:30 WEEKDAY 1- . . . . . 6:30•8:30 7~9 HERSHEL MAURICE B WALTER \3 Union Graduates in Graubart Family\ 166 JAY' ST. FOR HONEST SERVICE AND GOOD JEWELRY ·--~-- -·---·-·· .. ·--·------·-- ---· .. ·-·-'-~·--- .. -' --~-----· ._,_J \' . ' tJ I 1 re ,., (! ) () '4

Page 4 CONCORDIENSIS, MARCH 10, 1971 I, • II Keep languages Continued from page 1 to the College Senate, rather than to the President; a Committee on Liason and Governance will be established, with the power to evaluate the performance of administrators on a \regular basis;\ the President's veto power will extend only to budgetary questions; and a Research Committee witH regulate the distribation of resea:rch funds. discussion was needed before any definite commitment should be made. Professor Jonas then proposed that Division II meet again on Friday, March 12, and this was approved . . There were several substantive objections voiced by Division ·I faculty. These included an objection to the so-called \two- The Social Committee presents Seatrain in concert in Memorial Chapel on Friday night, April 2, at midnight. Tickets are $3 in advance, and $3.50 at the door. Tickets will be placed on sale Monday, March 29 at the Student Activities office. Seatrain features an interesting sound with jazz flute, electric violin and guitar, as well as ~ass, keyboard and drums. Their diversity of talent affords the group great flexibility in terms of sound and style. Professor Gati stated that amendments to the Report are not unwelcome, and that several may pmve useful. However, Gati emphasized that the basic \equilibrium between faculty, students, and administration\ is a crucial element of the Report, and therefore should not be tampered with. He urged that the faculty be aware of the existence of different interests within the College. Professor Fin.kelstein moved that Division II accept the Governance Report \in principle.\ However, it was the consensus vrew that further tiered\ committee system, meaning the establishmen.t of subcmnmittees, as overly \cumbersome.\ One professor disapproved of the plaa to elect student members of the College Senate on the basis of Divisional affiliation, while arwther questioned why th.e President should have the power to appoint committee chairmen. Division I Chairman Professor Carl Niemeyer annoanced that governance discussion will continue at the next meeting, scheduled for Monday, March 15. According to present plan.s, the general faculty will start to vote on provisions of the Governance Report at their March 16 meeting . More Faculty Council ... Continued from Page 1 foreign study programs. Professor Frederick Klemm, who is Chairman of the Department of Modem Languages, noted that, aside from Division IV, the vast majority of faculty voted against total abolition of the language requirement. Professor Klemm stressed that his department favors modifications, hut still feels that students should he exposed to foreign languages on the college level in order to ~ecure a \hroad enough base\ for ·~ H future languag~- programs. e admitted that no ~olution to this prohlem appears entire!) ~atistactor:-.. Dean Lichterman, speaking in favor of the proposal, called Klemm's argument \not very persuasive, and Professor Daniel Driscoll questioned the need for special treatment for foreign languages. Professor Carl Niemeyer countered by asserting that \language is an important part of human development ... a real educational experience. Professor Sharlet added that social scientists see language primarily as a \tool\ for better perception. 1'\ one of the participants in the discussion doubted the educational worth of foreign languages. but the real issue in dispute appeared to Senate on Governance Continued from Page I the students or faculty to one- fifth was carried hy a large vote. A second point on that same section, calling for the elimination of a Presidential voice in the consideration of a referendum. was clearly defeated. Proposal 4 of the report produced more suggestions for 1 change than any other section outside of the first. A motion to change the suggested ratio of voting students at departmental meetings was approved, so that n~presflntation would be one student in departments of three or fewer, two students in departments of four to six members. three students in those with seven to nine faculty, and four students voting in departments with more than nine facultv members. In addition. motio-ns that departments having more than one student representative would have both junior and senior students, and that all departmental meetings (excluding executive sessions) v.ould he open to anyone interested were also passed. Suggestions that student representation in departments he made equal to faculty minus one, and that sophomores be eligible for election as student representatives to the departments were both defeated. Finally. an amendment was brought up concerning Proposal 5. dealing with student representation on the Board of Trustees. It was proposed that the term of student members be extended from two to four years: from June of sophomore year to June, two years following graduation, with full voting priviliges to be conferred at the time of graduation. There was a great deal of support for this, and it was passed with only 3 opposing votes. At the conclusion of the meeting, the Senate passed a resolution, identical to that of the All\College Council: \We highly endorse the report of the Ad Hoc Committee on Governance. We compliment the Committee on its comprehensive. well-thought-out report. We consider it a workable and forward-looking model for governance at Union in the 1970's.\ Only four Senators were opposed to the resolution. RAY ROGERS Printing Contractor, Inc. 300 Ninth Street Troy Phone 273-2505 INSTANT QUALITY PRINTING SPIRAL BINDING THESES COLLEGE MATERIAL A SPECIALTY r I SHAFFER - GRIMM BUILDING SUPPLY CO. I incorporated Lumber & Mason Supplies Fixed or Adjustable bookshelves Available 315 Green Street at Erie Boulevard, Schen~ ctady Near Alco F R 7-2239 We Deliver Stop at our show room for help & serv1ce. ............ involve the realism of maintaining special requirements. The actual vote on the motion to abolish the language requirement was a 5-5 deadlock, with four abstentions. President Martin then stated that this was essentially a faculty matter, an.d therefore he would not vote on it. A subsequent motion to recommit this proposal to the Curricular Affairs Committee was approved by a vote of 8-5. FRIDAY M~~CH In other action, the Council unanimously approved seven of the eight new courses submitted hv the Curricular Affairs l:ommittee, dealing with history and philosophy. A course in \Contemporary Economic Issues\ was tabled due to opposition within Division II. Dean Licterman presented an emergency proposal to allow students in Sociology 10 to take the course on a pass-fail basis, due to Miss Beechy's extended illness. This was passed without dissent. Martin Abramowitz, Director of the Upward Bound program, was appointed to the faculty by the Council, in a move necessitated by state law. Immediately prior to adjournment, President Martin announced that several members of the faculty will meet with the Committee on Salaries, Promotion, and Tenure, presumably for a discussion of that committee's operations. DIAMANTE'S En,oy Ovr Fine Home Cooked lralion Food in Ou• C¢mfortable Dining Room Opp. The lrownell Gcrte on NoH Stre_. Oprn Doily I 0 to A M Su-ndov' 5 PM. to 1 A.M 'For three Generations.' rhose Who Know ... Have been recommending Exclusive Area Showing Fri-Sat USE YOUR STUDENT DISC CARD HERSHEL MAURICE B WALTER \liJnion Graduates in Graubart Family\ 166 JAY ST. FOR HONEST SERVICE AND GOOD JEWELR'Y J ·' .,, 111 .. ~ t ~'~ I ,, I ( ) ••

,,, .. . ) \· \\·· ~· CONCORDIENSIS, MARCH 10, 1971 Page 5 .-~----~----~----------~------------~------~--. Invitational Track Meet AN ODE TO A DYING LAKE As lakes fill up with algae which phosphates fertilized, ,. they_ l31owl¥ :turn· .to. s.wampl.and.. Some more clear water 1 s died. So do not feed the algae. Stop right now .... it's urgent! When you do your laundry, use ·phosphate-free detergent. Arm & Hammer 1 s made one, and it 1 s guaranteed to give Bright-as-ever w~shes, and it helps our waters live. On Saturday· Defending champion Cortland State heads an 18-team field for the 15th annual Union College Invitational Track Meet Satl,lrday. More than 260 athletes are expected at Memorial Field House for the meet with eight track events, including two relays, and four. field events scheduled for the competition whch begins at 10 a.m. In addition to Cortland, other teams entered in the Invitational include 1970 runner-up Springfield, RPI, B.uffalo (NY) State, Albany (NY) State, Le Moyne, Brockport (NY) State, Oswego (NY) State, Williams and Westfield (Mass.) State. Also Niagara, Hamilton, Alfred, Utica, and the University of Rochester, Plattsburgh (NY) State, Oneonta (NY) State and Union. The meet is open to the public with no admission charged. ~ \0 '\' .... 0 C.l .... = ~ '\' - .... ~ ~ ~ = ~ ~ ·s = \E' ~ (l,j QC ~ .... =:l .... M ~ l 0\\ I ~ 0\\ ~ \C QC ~ l C.~ .... = '\' ~ 0 (l,j rll .c ~ rll ... = ·- .. ... .c:l [.:l:;q . .. ~ ~ Comics Are Becb;l-ning Awa;re Of \-Socia:l Problems PROFESSIONAL TYPING SERVICE fry Type Boots IBM Selectric Experience in· Doctoral Dissertations; Reasonable Rates· . ' NEW YORK _:_ Comic books fire hydrants instead ol Call 462-6283. are taking a new direction and swimming pools and-auto dumps ... ______ _ becoming more contemporary in~;itead of playgrounds. 'Could and relevant to the problems you survive in this jungle without facihg our .current generation. your super.,powers'?' he's asked Examples in recent issues show by a black resident. Superman Superman as neurosis-ridden, wonders, and so begins to B.~bnan. becoming pollution develop a social conscience.\ conscious and Green Arrow In anoth.er episode; \The Man coping with bigotry and of Steel\ ponders on his discrimination, existence. \I'm Superman. The This is a radical departure wealth of the world. is at my from the days when most comics command. I have powers beyond · ...... -heroes encountered. monsters the dreams of mere mortals. Yes, from outer sPace, super-villains I'm the man who ~s everything! and mad scientists. The problems · But 'what wouldn't I give to have of today are civil rights, racism, a .son like Dan!\ So the pangs of poverty and pollution from alientation begin to set in. without; alientation and self- doubt from •111ithin, and the super-heroes ~te involved in all of these. LOST BLACK PUPPY German Shepherd Ears Brown Eyes White tipped tail l¥2-2ft high If \Heintz\ is found .•. Room 116 N. Davidson Phone 393-5153 Lou .. REG. $30.00 - - OUR PRICE ' $24.95 Wide Selection of Styles To Chose From. At Up To 40% SAVINGS Est. 1951 1816 STATE ST I (Nt>xt to SWAN CU:ANERS) WOODLAWN-·SCHENECTAOY' L...---~~---------------·-- ·-· Comic heroes; entire life styles and thought processes are changing in this new era. Viewing the changes, one article in a natic;mal magazine notes: \Superman he of the impervious 'kishkas', finds him~elf in a slum where kids have MAMA BIANCHI'S RESTAURANT ~~------------~~--~ 1135 Barrett St. ---~-- ·~·---\\'· ATTENTION WANTED SKIERS Brondey(the sun mt.) Part Time Real Italian Food Cooked· To Order still has lots of snow Help and $2.25 Hour We Cater To Students special student rates Warehouse SS wkday (with I.D.) The Friendliest Place in Town 57 wkend (with l.D.) WORK · 1 for information call Call 356-0133 · Bruce KowalsRi 346-927} _ ··-·--·-.:... .. ·' ' OPEN T·O 3 A.M. FRI. a11d SAT.

,_ \\ 'l\1 ... I .. ) -• CONCORDIENSIS, MARCH 10, 1971 Page 5 .-------------------------------------------------------~ AN ODE TO A DYING LAKE -~-~-·.-.' As lakes fill up with algae which phosphates fertilized, They slowly turn to swampland.. Some more clear water's died. So do not feed the algae. Stop right now ••. it's urgent! When you do your laundryi use phosphate-free detergent. Arm & Hammer's made one, and it's guaranteed to give Bright-as-ever washes, and it helps our waters live. Invitational Track Meet On Saturday Defending champion Cortland State heads an 18-team field for the 15th annual Union College Invitational Track Meet Saturday. More than 260 athletes are expected at Memorial Field House for the meet with eight track events, including two relays, and four field events scheduled for the competition whch begins at 10 a.m. In addition to Cortland, other teams entered in the Invitational include 1970 runner-up Springfield, RP I, B.uffalo (NY) State, Albany (NY) State, Le Mayne, Brockport (NY) State, Oswego (NY) State, Williams and Westfield (Mass.) State. Also Niagara, Hamilton, Alfred, Utica, and the University of Rochester, Plattsburgh (NY) State, Oneonta (NY) State and Union. The meet is open to the public with no admission charged. j \'0 ,_ ' 0 C.J ' ~ ~ ,_ - ·- ~ Q., :; c: ~ ~ ·a ~ 'E' ~ .:u QO ... = :::,.._ ... M ~ l 0'\ I ~ 0\ ~ \C Qe ~ ~ tJ ·- c \\\ ~ 0 Qj \' .c t:':l \' .... c ·- - - e.:! 1-o.. - Q.. ~ __j Comics Are Becoming Aware Of Social Problems PROFESSIONAL TYPING SERVICE fry Type Boots l IBM Selectric Experience in Doctoral Dissertations; Reasonable Rates; NEW YORK - Comic books are taking a new direction and becoming more contemporary and relevant to the problems facing our current generation. Examples in recent issues show Superman as neurosis-ridden, Batman becoming poilu tion conscious and Green Arrow coping with bigotry and discrimination. fire hydrants instead ol Call462-6283. REG. $30.00 -- OUR PRICE $2 4. 9 5 This is a radical departure from the days when most comics heroes encountered monsters from outer space, super-villains and mad scientists. The problems of today are civil rights, racism, poverty and pollution from without; alientation and self- doubt from •.vithin, and the super-heroes are involved in all of these. swimming pools and auto dumps - instead of playgrounds. 'Could you survive in this jungle without your super-powers?' he's asked by a black resident. Superman wonders, and so begins to develop a social conscience.\ In another episode, \The Man of Steel\ ponders on his existence. \I'm Superman. The wealth of the world is at my command. I have powers beyond the dreams of mere mortals. Yes, I'm the man who has everything! But what wouldn't I give to have a son like Dan!\ So the pangs of alientation begin to set in. Comic heroes' entire life styles and thought processes are changing in this new era. Viewing the changes, one article in a national magazine notes: \Superman he of the l§lGOODWR~~:;~fers impervious 'kishkas', finds us BROADWAY SCHENECTADY, NEW YORK 12305 himself in a slum where kids have (51Bl 374·7550 ATTENTION SKIERS Bromley (the sun mt.) still has lots of snow and special student rates $5 wkday (with I.D.) $7 wkend (with I.D.) .for information call j _ B!_uce !{ow_alski 346·927~ . ----- -·-------- WANTED Part Time Help $2.25 Hour Warehouse WORK Call 356-0133 ·' LOST BLACK PUPPY German Shepherd Ears Brown Eyes White tipped tail 1 Yz-2ft high If \Heintz\ is found ... Room 116 N. Davidson Phone 393-5153 Lou Wide Selection of Styles To Chose From. At Up To 40% SAVINGS Est. 1951 HH6 ~T~TE ST. fN<>xt tn SWAN Ct t=ANFRSl WOODLAWN- SCHENHT/111¥ '--------------- -·-·-- --------- MAMA BIANCHI'S REST AU RANT 1135 Barrett St. Real Italian Food Cooked To Order We Cater To Students The Friendliest Place in Town OPEN TO 3 A.M. FRI. a11d SAT. I I

Page 6 CONCORDIENSIS, MARCH 10, 1971 . . CAN YOU BE IND:I.FFERENT? The baby seal in the photo was one of 50,000 killed in the Gulf of St. Lawrence, one of over half a mUiion seals clubbed, speared, shot, gaffed during the 1970 Canadian- Norwegian slaughter in the Atlantic. Don't believe furriers who would persuade you that Friends of Animals has been ~~misleading\ you, that any slaughter anywhere is done for the benefit of the seals. I, Alice Herrington, testify that on March 21, 1970-the 'second day of the Canadian season on seals- I saw the same brutal massacre against which Friends of Animals, of which I am president, has been protesting for years. As the bubble-domed helicopter flew low over the first day's kill, I saw mother seals nuzzling the skinless corpses of their babies. Standing ten feet away from the killers on the ice floes, twenty miles out in the Gulf, I saw baby seals, clubbed twice, raise their heads as they were sliced open. Other babies were battered as many as fourteen times while ·the mqthers watched in terror and stress. If You Are One Who Cannot Be Indifferent to the Suffering of Other Creatures YOU CAN HELP First-by refusing to garb yourself in the agony of another, by refusing to buy the skins of wild I ife. Second-by causing this advertisement to be inserted in your local newspaper. (A mat will be sent upon your request to Friends of Animals. See coupon.) . Third -by sending a tax-deductible contribution to Friends of Ani.mals, Inc., a non-profit organization that photo by Brian Davie~ ... ; ,•. '~ f\' •. ·i/':':'':.:-~~-, ~ :;:. '.; -;=--~:~':; \' '~.Gil =\·; .':··.: . .':,-/-:~--' :=. _.· .. ·._:c;,l:=·~,;- •.:-·} intends to pound on the world's conscience until sentient men and women everywhere are made aware of the unnecessary cruelty and destruction being inflicted upon animals. Your contribution will be used to plead fdr those cre.atures who cannot speak for themselves but .who dumbly implore your pity. ,. ...... -~-----..-------~, ·1 1 Friends of Anim. als, Inc~ l 11 WEST 60TH STREET I I . ONEW .YORK, N.Y. 10023 .. 1 Enclosed is my tax-deductible I contribution to help stop the slaughter 1 . of marine mammals. Please adri l my name to your mailing list: I 0 Send me a mat of this advertisement so I ·that I .can place this advertisement in . ·I I my local paper at my own expense 1 . (also tax-deductible). I I I I l NAME ADDRESS CITY STATE ZIP I I I I I I I L ..... _ ..... __ . ._. ____ . __ .:.__.J \ ' ' • '.'II) ·., ~ f'l It-• ~ I 1 ] ( r ·( f 1 ·~ ' 1 [ I - - t ( I i j ( ·- - I

' • . ' _,, <\t } . ·,, \'I • CONCORDIENSIS, MARCH 10, 1971 Page 7 ·The Bard Aired ,Thursday on T.V. By BRUCE H. HUSTEN If you're a theater lover, a Shakespeare fanatic or an admirer of Maggie Smith, don't miss ••Much Ado About Nothing\ at 8:30 p.m. Thursday on WMHT, Channel 17, where you'll find all three. Miss Smith (who won the best actres~ oscar for her performance in •'The Prime of Miss Jean Brodie\} stars with her husband, Robert Stephens, as Beatrice and Benedick respectively in the British National Theater Company's production of this Shakespearean comedy. and most sarcastic dialogue, finally accept their fate and marry one another. Miss $mith is undoubtedly one of the best comediennes the theater world has ever seen and her husband, although not as well known in this country, has also proven himself to be one of Britain's finest actors. Stephens' latest film, \The Private Life of Sherlock Holmes,\ opened in New York at the new year to mixed reviews with Stephens in the title role. He also starred opposite Miss Smith {as the art teacher) in \The Prime of Miss Jean Brodie.\ THE BISTORYOFDAIR BROA,DW AY ROCK HIT Part I will be aired at 8:30 p.m. thursday and Saturday and part two, next Thursday and Saturday (March 19 and 20) at 8:30. This production is a TV adaptation of the version staged in 1965 by Franco Zeffirelli on the London stage. Its appearance in England stirred controversy because of its free adaptation of the Bard's classic. They have both just completed a season with the National Theater Company in London, playing opposite each other in Farquhar's restoration comedy, \The Beaux' Stratagem\ and in Ibsen's \Hedda Gabler\ under the direction of lngmar Bergman. Miss Smith received the Evening Standard's Best Actress Award for her novel portrayal of the neurotic Hedda. \ 50,000 MILES OF \HAIR\ It had been so long since even one song from a Broadway musical hit the very top of th,e country's best-seller charts, that few people thought it would ever happen again. Then, suddenly, an American tribal-love rock musical called HAIR was all ovet the nation's airwaves. It's original cast album was No.. 1, destined to become the biggest seller of all time, and four of its songs, \Aquarius \Let the Sunshine J.n,\ \Hair\ and <;Good Morning Starshine\ were gracing the Top 10. HAIR was on ' its way to becoming an international institution, with new colll:panies springing up in the United States and throqghout the world. But it didn't quite begin that way. It wa.s back in the cady part of 1967 that two disreputable- looking characters named Gerome Ragni and James Rado walked into the office of music expert Nat Shapiro, carrying a withered briefcase filled with notes and drawings on brown paper bags, napkins and old envelopes, which, when pieced together, turned but to be the first draft for the lyrics and script of HAIR. They and their work were dedicated to the non- philosophy of non-violence, love, exploration of the senses and a demonstrative rejection of materialism. HAIR began making the , munds, but no one knew what to do with a free-style, 25-character folk-rock-oriented musical about a . tribe of lovable kids who smoke pot, burn their draft cards and trade their chicks. Jerome Robbins, with whom Ragni had been studying and working, loved it, but was too busy. A few other producers and directors were intrigued but unconvinced that it coma be commercially practical. Some were offended by ••Protest and Communication,\ the sixth film in the CIVILISATION series will be presented March 1 S, Monday, at 7:30 p.m. in the Schacht Fine Arts Center, Russell Sage College. Admission is free. This wiD be the last issue · of CONCORDIE:NSIS for the Winter Term. CONCORDY will resume publication on Thursday, Aprill, after Spring vacation. There wiU be a ~pring Tenn organizational meeting on Thursday, the 1st, at 7:00 p.m. in CONCORDY'S offices in the Geology building. At tbat time, Editor-in-Chief- Elect Jim Stewart will announce plans and policy changes for the coming term. Anyone who has worked with CONCORDY~ and anyone interested in working next term in any capacity should come to this meeting • its four-letter words and others by its violent put-down of the establishment. Then along came Joseph Rapp, Who chose HAIR as the vehicle to launch his partially subsidized New York Shakespeare Festival at the downtown Public Theatre. It opened for a ·limited eight-week engagement and was an immediate sell-out, bat it soon had no where to go. Michael Butler, a young, attractive, energetic, resourceful Chicago millionaire, was turned on by the show and then fell hopelessly in love. He was determined to keep it alive. HAIR was meved lock, stock and props to Cheetah, a mid- town disco~heque, which, it developed, was in a building abouf to be torn down. It looked like HAIR would again he cut off in its prime. Butler then took over completely, buying the rights from Papp, allowing the authors to revise the work without any restriction, and bringing in Tom O'Horgan to enlarge the show's scope and give it a new dimension. The work was begun and on April 29, 1968, HAIR was firmly transplanted at the· Biltmore Theatre on Broadway. That the night would prove historic was something no one at that time could predict. But the reviews quickly confirmed that HAIR was indeed a milestone in the American musical theatre and that Broadway would never quite again be the same. Union Worksh.o.p ~·· In~ College Jazz Festival The Union College Jazz Workshop is proud to announce it's formal acceptance to participate in the American College Jazz Festival at Quinnipiac College, Conn .• April 16, 17, and 18. This fourth- annual jazz event, sponsored by the John F. Kennedy Foundation for the Performing Arts, will bring together for competition over 100 college jazz ensembles in the Northeast. The Workshop auditioned by submitting a tape recording made in late January. According to Frank Gambardella, General Chairman of the festival, the Union tape was rated \very highly\ among those received. Representing Union will be junior Greg Chesson, piano; sop~omore Matt Finley, flugelhorn; freshman Jeff Avrin, bass; and junior Dave Herzfeld, percussion. The group, having played five informal on-campus concerts this year, hopes to concentrate on practicing for the festival during the first weeks of the Spring term. \Much Ado\ is the story of quarreling brothers Don Pedro (Prince of Arragon) and Don John - and of witty lovers. The latter pair, as played in this production by Miss Smith and Mr. Stephens, are both confidently determined never to marry and, after engaging in a duel of wits which contains some of English literature's funniest CANDLES MOBILS GIFTS Creative Framing Original Graphics Posters ARTISTS' SUPPLY 163 Jay St. They are scheduled to arrive in Los Angeles this week to open shortly there in Noel Coward's \Design for Living.\ Evert if you're not a theater lover and even if you · don't particularly like Shakespeare, I'd be willing to bet their performances would be more than enough to make you glad you tuned in. THINGS FOR THE MIND & BODY THE OTHER SIDE OF TODAY 138 Jay St. ,..----.:;;;;::;;~---- Now Appearing the . TIKIS 'Amlslaroiece.a Iunny, moving lilm. \- .. IIDIItiH Nightly at 7:30& 9:30 MON & TUES. BARGAIN NIGHT 1:00 ALL SEATS EXCEPT HOLIDAYS . Andy Warhol presents Joe Dallesandro in l ·¥ Sunday Continuous 3:15-5:15 7:15-9:15

