of a \It is etsity of have the is pre- to in in' niors plan of Ellis bad kept was be ever, to a set for 18 the ood of the erm II on past pus. to the the at the aS of I t.. • Founded at Union College 1877 V()LUME 100, NUMBER 18 SCHENECTADY, NEW YORK: JANUARY 8, 1971 Price Twenty Cents Mountie Blackout Is Ooer New light Board Obtained 1he recently sanitized and enclosed third floor of Nott Memorial, made possible through the brave efforts of a group which calls itself the Technical Pigeon Control. With the advantages of cleanliness and light, the Mountebanks finally have reason for optimism, by PETER DICKERMAN The future of live theatre at Union, which appeared to be in serious jeopardy at the end .of last semester,. has been bolstered by several encourag.ing developments. For those who may not remember, prospects for further play productions were greatly imperiled by the fin&]. failure of the College's aged lighti:ng board. While the Mountebanks succeeded in ratsrng approximately $6,000 in funds to be used toward the purchase of a new board, this appeared to fall far short of . mip~ urn cost requirements. To add to the prevailing gloom, the college administration implied that it could not afford to subsidize the purchase of the needed equipment. However, Mountebanks' President Steve Katz now reports that the aquisition of a new lighting board is \virtually definite.\ It will cost about Hoop Hopes Are. Soaring As Cagers Romp To 6-1 By MARK SHUGOLL The Union basketball team sent hopes for the 197()...71 season soaring to dizzying. new heights by sweeping four games over the holidays and in the process upping their record to 6*1, The Garnet five romped over Drew and Loyola of Montreal, and then for encores captured the Capital District Tournament by setting aside area rivals Siena and Albany State. · The start marks Union's best on the court since the 1964-65 season when the Dutchmen WRUC In Critical Straits Money, Manpower Needed by TOM MITCHELL technique. He said that for some Dave Robbins, sitting in for time it was thought that the \Uncle\ Bob Ditter at station woul<l not broadcast for Wednesday night's:' WRUC the entire Winter Term and carry meeting, discussed the station's out an extensive teaching critical need for men and money. program instead. However, this It was announced that a g<;)al plan was dropped by the of $2750 must be met in order for Executive Board in the belief that the radio station to continue the best way to learn technique is broadcasting. This mean!! that to spend time on the air. students working for WRUC Teaching efforts will center about · orientation of new radiomen and must begin selling advertisement ·.·· .. i~~fiasis 0 ~ \good air sound\ as spots. to local and national !#\){ companies and. businesses. \Each '·:,W~ti as the specifics of radio member of the station must carry .·'technology. . . one account and follow it up :, . .... In. an ~xecutlve Board throughout the year,\ Robbins , :M.e.etmg Which .. preceded . the said. .W'eqnesday . m~ht meeting, The shortage of manpower ·At.thur Forsdtck, 73 was name~ seems to be almost as ctitical as to succeed G~orge Malanowski the need for money. There is a as WRUC Station Manager. opened with five wins in thetr first six games. In that case, however, the success was short lived as the hoopsters won only three more times all season and finis,hed at an 8-11 clip. That year was the start of a six season consecutive sub-.500 streak on which the Garnet are currently riding . Union opened its season in disappointing fashion bowing by two · points · to Harpur. Since then, the year has been anything but disappointing. The Garnet bounced back with pre~holiday wins over Middlebury and Norwich. Against Drew, Jim Tedisco, Mike Doyle, and Tom Bacher helped Union dominate all aspects of the game in posting an easy 91-59 win. Doyle and Bacher did most of the Garnet's first half scoring and Tedisco took over in the second half and dazzled the Rangers with his shooting,. passing, and dribbling. Tedisco and Doyle finished with 25 points each while Bacher added 17. Union nearly ran Loyola out of Memorial FieldhOuse in the second half, polishing off the Continued on Page 4 need for people who want -to r--------------......_ ______________ _, have regular shows as well as The first Convocation of the winter term will be held Tuesday, . those who want to produce January 12, 1971 and 11:30 a.m. in Memorial Chapel. Robert Paul shows, students to work in ·the Wolff will speak on \Who Should Run the College\. news bureau and music Robert Wolff is an exponent of a. unique brand of responsibie department, and art accountant. anarchism, Dr. Wolff is an. associate professor ef philosophy at The need fot manpower became Columbia University. He is an authority of the works of Kant, painfully obvious after it was writing viVidly on the philosopher in Kant's THEORY OF discovered that delay in handling . MENTAL ACTIVITY KANT: A COLLECTION OF CRITICAL · incoming mail caused the station ES~A \'S. It is on the subjeet of per!im'ial freedom, however, that he· to lose an opportunity to obtain is most outspoken. Addressing a group of lawyers discussing the . $1800 in funds. topic \Is Law Dead?'', he said that ''it does not matter. No one, not Robbins placed great emphasis• evan a citizen of a true democracy, has an obligation to obey the on a program to ··turn over law.'' He also proposes re\Vising the purposes and structure of the greater control··of ther station to univenities, tvrmng their operation over to a coalition of students · the students by introducing them and faculty. · . to the finer aspects . 9f radio Memorial Chapel, 11:30 1\•111• $12,000, considerably below the original projected expense; this is due to the fact that the board will arrive on campus in cemp0nent form and will be assembled by the students themselves. ·Moreover, this light board represents a substantial technical advance over the defunct apparatus, in that it will be possible. to set the proper lighting one scene in advanc.e. The new board would provide a total of 72,000 watts, in comparison to the old board's theoretical (but unattainable) limit of 48;000 watts. Katz explained that the required funds, in addition to that which has already been contributed, will originate from the Coliege's contingency plan and a bank loan initiated by the College. Incidentally, those who pledged money to the · Mountebanks but have not yet paid·should do so immediately at the Student Activities Office according to Katz, $1 ,400 is still outstanding. If present plans hold, components for the light board should start to arrive in twQ to three weekks, and the board could be completely ready by the onset of the Spring semester. Meanwhile, the Mountebanks will continue with their planned winter productions. This semester's first production, entitled \Tango\, will be presented ori January 28-30 and February 4-6. Another major source of good news for the theatrical club is that the pigeon plague has apparently ended. Two students (whose names are not known) spent part of their vacation cleaning up the mess which existed on the third floor of Nott Memorial. In addition, they repaired the cefling, so .that that area should remain safe from any prospective invaders. As Kat~ asserted, the anonymous philanthropists ''did a really fine job.\ In apparently concluding the light board controverxy, it can be said that student efforts did have a substantial effect. Certainly, as Steve Katz stated, the administration \has recognized its responsibility\ to supply financial aid to the Arts,. at least to some extent .. CONCORDII.NSIS wishes to .:orrect some infonnation which was presented in an article in the · last issue, concerning Faeulty Coun£il deliberations. Calendar change suggestions were presented to the Council not · as proposals t.o be voted on, · but rather as topics of discussion. This is obviously an important distinction, and we regret any implication to the effect that the administration was tryin3. to force through a . calendar change without student consent Foundations Aid: Union With Christmas Grants . . During the Christmas recess the college received a $20,000 gr~nt from the Stephen J. Potter Memorial Foundation for the further endowment of a fellowship for research in the uses of bituminous materials in the construction and safety of public highways. The gift complements the $40,000 grant received from the foundation earlier this year. The fellowship is awarded annually with the research to be conducted in conjunction with the Stephen J. Potter Memorial laboratory dedicated ;at Union College in 1968, and used as a universal testing facility for .structures and materials. The grant, like the laboratory is named for the late Stephen J. Potter, a native of Ticonderoga, wJto died in 1951. The foundation bearing his name was established in his will to aid eharitable and edu.cational organizations. In 1913, Potter established the Defiance Corporation of Fort Edward, a firm primarily engaged in the sale and application of emulsions for asphaltic or bituminous paving materials and in the manufacture and sale of prepared paving products and similar road materials. The company is now the Defiance Asphalt Company; a wholly owned subsidiary of Peckham Industries Inc. In addition to his business interests~ Potte.. was active in community affairs, serving at one time as president of the · oard of directors of the l•~onderoga Community Building, director and vice president of the Ticonderoga National Bank, dir~ctor and president of the board of the Moses.-Ludington Hospital and director and president of the Ticonderoga Country Club. Recipients of the Potter Memorial Fellowship will be regularly enrolled undergraduate or graduate students at Union. selected by the dean and committee from the center for science and engineering at the college. Preference will be given to qualified applicants from Essex County or the Ticonderoga area. Judge · Robert W. Bascom of Fort Edward, is secretary- treasurer of the foundation which is headquartered in Fort Edward. Union lias also been awarded an unrestricted grant of $2,500 by the Esso . Education Foundation of New York City. The grant, to be used at the discretion of the college, is a part of .Esso's PresidentiaL Contingency program. The foundation this year has awarded a total of $505;000 to 181 colleges in the country as part of this program .

II of a \It is of have the is pre- to in in· niors plan of sting nior, Ellis bad kept was ents be s to or a set for 18 the ood of the II on ing of to the the at the cal of . ~· : ~ ,, )\. I ! ' 'J .t i r' .t . ,, ... i 4 ! \. ), \ I I I ~ Founded at Union College 1877 VOLUME 100, NUMBER 18 SCHENECTADY, NEW YORK, JANUARY 8, 1971 Price Twenty Cents Mountie Blackout Is Ouer New Light Board Obtained by PETER DICKERMAN The future of live theatre at . Union, which appeared to be in serious jeopardy at the end of last semester, has been bolstered by several encouraging developments. For those who may not remember, prospects for further play productions were greatly imperiled by the final failure of the College's aged lighting board. While the Mountebanks succeeded in raising The recently sanitized and enclosed third floor of Nott Memorial, made possible through the brave efforts of a group which calls itself the Technical Pigeon Control. With the advantages of cleanliness and light, the approximately $6,000 in funds to be used toward the purchase of a new board, this appeared to fall far short of minimum cost requirements. To add to the prevailing gloom, the college administration implied that it could not afford to subsidize the purchase of the needed equipment. However, Mountebanks' President Steve Katz now reports that the aquisition of a new lighting board is \virtually definite.\ It will cost about Mountebanks finally have reasonfor optimism. Hoop Hopes Are Soaring As Cagers Romp To 6-1 By MARK SHUGOLL The Union basketball team sent hopes for the 1970-71 season soaring to dizzying new heights by sweeping four games over the holidays and in the process upping their record to 6-1. The Garnet five romped over Drew and Loyola of Montreal, and then for encores captured the Capital District Tournament by setting aside area rivals Siena and Albany State. The start marks Union's best on the court since the 1964-65 season when the Dutchmen WRUC In Critical Straits · Money, Manpower Needed opened with five wins m their first six games. In that case, however, the success was short lived as the hoopsters won only three more times all season and finished at an 8-1 I clip. That year was the start of a six season consecutive sub-.500 streak on which the Gamet are currently riding. Union opened its season in disappointing fashion bowing by two points to Harpur. Since then, the year has been anything but disappointing. The Garnet bounced back with pre-holiday wins over Middlebury and Norwich. by TOM MITCHELL Dave Robbins, sitting in for ''Uncle\ Bob Ditter at Wednesday n ight's.,.· WR U C meeting, discussed the station's critical need for men and money. It was announced that a goal of $2750 must be met in order for the radio station to continue broadcasting. This means that students working for WRUC must begin selling advertisement spots to local and national companies and businesses. \Each member of the station must carry one account and follow it up throughout the year,\ Robbins said. The shortage of manpower seems to be almost as ctitical as the need for money. There is a need for people who want to have regular shows as well as those who want to produce shows, students to work in the news bureau and music department, and an accountant. The need for manpower became painfully obvious after it was discovered that delay in handling incoming mail caused the station to lose an opportunity to obtain $1800 in funds. Robbins placed great emphasis• on a program to turn over greater control of the, station to the students by introducing them to the finer aspects of radio technique. He said that for some time it was thought that the station would not broadcast for the entire Winter Term and carry out an extensive teaching program instead. However. this plan was dropped by the Executive Board in the belief that the best way to learn technique is to spend time on the air. Teaching efforts will center about orientation of new radiomen and emphasis on \good air sound\ as well as the specifics of radio technology. In an Executive Board Meeting which preceded the Wednesday night meeting, Arthur Forsdick, '73 was named to succeed George Malanowski as WR UC Station Manager. Against Drew, Jim Tedisco, Mike Doyle, and Tom Bacher helped Union dominate all aspects of the game in posting an easy 91-59 win. Doyl~ and Bacher did most of the Garnet's first half scoring and Tedisco took over in the second half and dazzled the Rangers with his shooting, passing, and dribbling. Tedisco and Doyle finished with 25 points each while Bacher added 17. Union nearly ran Loyola out of Memorial Fieldhouse in the second half, polishing off the Continued on Page 4 The first Convocation of the winter term will be held Tuesday, January 12, 1971 and 11:30 a.m. in Memorial Chapel. Robert Paul Wolff wiiJ speak on \Who Should Run the College\. Robert Wolff is an exponent of a unique brand of responsible anarchism, Dr. Wolff is an associate professor of philosophy at Columbia University. He is an authority of the works of Kant, writing vividly on the philosopher in Kant's THEORY OF MENTAL ACTIVITY KANT: A COLLECTION OF CRITICAL ESSAYS. It is on the subject of personal freedom, however, that he is most outspoken. Addressing a group of lawyers discussing the topic \Is I.aw Dead?'', he said that \it does not matter. No one, not evan a citizen of a true democracy, has an obligation to obey the law.\ He also proposes revising the purposes and structure of the universities, tyrning their operation over to a coalition of students and faculty. Memorial Chapel, 11:30 a.m. $12,000, considerably below the original projected expense; this is due to the fact that the board will arrive on campt~s in component form and wiii be assembled by the students themselves. Moreover, this light board represents a substantial technical advance over the defunct apparatus, in that it will be possible to set the proper lighting one scene in advance. The new board would provide a total of 72,000 watts, in comparison to the old board's theoretical (but unattainable) limit of 48,000 watts. Katz explained that the required funds, in addition to that which has already been contributed, will originate from the Coliege's contingency plan and a bank loan initiated by the College. Incidentally, those who pledged money to the Mountebanks but have not yet paid should do so immediately at the Student Activities Office according to Katz, $1,400 is still outstanding. If present plans hold, components for the light board should start to arrive in two to three weekks. and the board could be completely ready by the onset of the Spring semester. Meanwhile, the Mountebanks will continue with their planned winter productions. This semester's first production, entitled \Tango\, will be presented on January 28-30 and February 4-6. Another major source of good news for the theatrical club is that the pigeon plague has apparently ended. Two students (whose names are not known) spent part of their vacation cleaning up the mess which existed on the third floor of Nott Memorial. In addition. they repaired the ceiling, so that that area should remain safe from any prospective invaders. As Katz asserted. the anonymous philanthropists \did a really fine job.\ In apparently concluding the light board controverxv. it can be said that student efforts did have a substantial effect. Certainh. as Steve Katz stated, ·the administration \has recogni1ed its responsibility\ to supply financial aid to the Arts. at least to some extent. CONCORDH1,NSIS wishes to correct some infonnation which was presented in an article in the last issue, concerning Faculty Council de Iibera tions. Calendar change suggestions were presented to the Council not as proposals to be voted on, but rather as topics of discussion. This is obviously an important distinction, and we regret any implication to the effect that the administration was trying to force through a calendar · change without student consent Foundations Aid Union With Christmas Grants During the Christmas recess the college received a $20,000 grant from the Stephen J. Potter Memorial Foundation for the further endowment of a fellowship for research in the uses of bituminous materials in the construction and safety of public highways. The gift complements the $40,000 grant received from the foundation earlier this year. The fellowship is awarded annually with the research to be conducted in conjunction with the Stephen J. Potter Memorial laboratory dedicated at Union College in 1968, and used as a universal testing facility for structures and materials. The grant, like the laboratory is named for the late Stephen J. Potter. a native of Ticonderoga, who died in 195 I. The f~undation bearing his name was established in his will to aid charitable and educational organizations. In 1913, Potter established the Defiance Corporation of Fort Edward, a firm primarily engaged in the sale and application of emulsions for asphaltic or bituminous paving materials and in the manufacture and sale of prepared paving products and similar road materials. The company is now the Defiance Asphalt Company, a wholly owned subsidiary of Peckham Industries Inc. In addition to his business interests. Potter was active in community affairs, serving at one time as president of the oard of directors of the -f I .. t.mderoga Community Building. director and vice president of the Ticonderoga National Bank. director and president of the board of the Moses-Ludington Hospital and director and president of the Ticonderoga Country Club. Recipients of the Potter Memorial Fellowship will be regularly enrolled undergraduate or graduate students at Union. selected by the dean and committee from the center for science and engineering at the college. Preference will be given to qualified applicants from Essex County or the Ticonderoga area. Judge Robert W. Bascom of Fort Edward, is secretary- treasurer of the foundation which is headquartered in Fort Edward. Union has also been awarded an unrestricted grant of $2,500 by the Esso Education Foundation of New York City. The grant, to be used at the discretion of the college, is a part of Esso's Presidential Contingency program. The foundation this year has awarded a total of $505,000 to 181 colleges in the country as part of this program.

PAGE 2 CONCORDIENSIS, JAN. 8, 1971 NEW STIJDENT ISOLATIONISM The Schene.~tady Human Rights Commission is presently · involved in a county•wide survey to determine equ!ll employment opportunities in this .area. The Commission has appointed Charles Holme!i, an assistant professor of History 11t Union College, to lead this group in gathering the infonnath)D fm the survey. Managing ·Editor James E. Stewart News Editor Louis S. Snitkoff Assoc. News Editor Peter Bickerman Features Editor Daniel Schochet Layout Editor Doug Wong Editor-in-Chief Peter J. Weingold Business Manager Lloyd Birns Asst. Business Managers DougTosh Doug Binder National Adv. Mgr. Mark Shulm;tn Sports Editor William J. Holleran Asst. Sports Editor Mark Shugoll Editors Emeriti William Ouzer Henry G. Fein Contrib}lting Editor Richard L. Kramer Photography Editor Jody Saslow Asst. Photography Editors Charles Long Dave Conrey STAFF: Hartis Samuels, Judy Steinbach, Michael Goler, Less Goldman, Joseph Achenbauin, David Conti, Greg Hamlin, Bruce. Garber, Michael Hollander, George Kaplan, Robert A. Levine, Mike Meserole, Thomas Morante, Ruth Morton, Barbara McDonald, Torn Mitchell, Jay Hobard, Len Solomon, George Bain, Marty Berman, Reid Russel, Gail Goodman, Mark Zubres and Michael Rosenberg. Published 1 uesdays and Frid••ys during the school year by the student body of t!nion College. Schenectady. N.Y .. National Adverti>ing Representatiye, National Educational Advertising Service, Inc .• College Puhlishc\ Representative, 360 Lexmgton 1\vc., N. Y.C. Editorial office, Old Gym, Union Co'll\'ge, Publication Ortice, The World Publications, 771 Stale Street., Schenectady, N.Y, 12307, 346- 2356. Entered in the Schenectady .post ol'licc us Second Class Mail Matter, Subscription 20 cents a copy. $6 a year delivered anywhere in the United Statc_s. Censorship The question of censorship is never an easy one to resolve, especially when dealing with a newspaper like CONCORDIENSIS. Intended primarily for college students, this paper is also sent to parents of students where it is likely read by those on both sides of the generation gap. The likelihood that some eight year old will be titillated by an occasional four letter word or subverted by a discussion of the radical left is a minor consideration. What is more worrisome to their elders is the probability that they themselves will be reminded ofthe freedom-they do nQt have to express themselves and . discuss · ideas outside their realm of _ direct experience. CONCORDIENSIS has been privately criticized for u~ing ''four letter words\ and \other language which certainly does not reflect well upon Union College.\ In defense we can only say that there is no reason to change the words used in a direct quote simply because they may be \offensive\. We do, in fa:et, restrict our language to what is \proper except when colloquial language is pertinent and relevant to the article m question. There is no reason to arbitrarily restrict the use of certain words when the subculture or organization or individual being discussed actually communicates in such a manner. If a reader feels his sensibilities are being violated by what we think is a reasonable treatment of both the message and the medium of what is said, then we hope he will try and change this outlook, or, this bdng impossible, he can restrict himself to \acceptable\ literature. by RAY KRISE JR When they start discussing something on the late-night talk shows, you know it has to be a pretty obvious topic. Lately, they've been rapping on how quiet the campuses have been since the spring. That's how pervasive the tum-around .of student activity has been: it's even made Dick Cavett. The big question, of course, is Why; why the new student isolationism? Take this column as an example - last y:ear I was screaming off the pig, this year rm writing goddamn concert review. Am I disillusioned with political activity, do I agree with Kurt Vonnegut that \the kids have lost, the military h~;ts seen to that\? No, but ... Speaking realistically,· the problem is that the student activity of the past few years has been based in large part on contagion. Everybody else is doing it, it looks like fun, maybe I'll try it, etc. Group psychology has always played a large part in politics, and in leftist politics as much as any other. Okay, so there's maybe one answer: apathy could be just as contagious as activism. But there was, at its roots (think about that), a reason - love of humanity - to the hoo-ha of the last few years. It follows logically that there's some rationale that kicked off the pull-in-your-horns balL That rationale is, I. think, that everybody's tired. Remember the Moratoria two years ago? Wow, we're gonna add one day to the activities each month, remember? Yeah, that lasted a big fat long time. After Washington (the second month), everybody figured his dues had been about pltid. So let's- 'go home and smoke some dope. That's pretty much where we _are now, people. Some alleged observers of mankind (Good evening, this is Eric Severeid, the Voice of God) wonder aloud if the kids/students/left/ humanists libertarianists haven't turned inward out of despair. If that were true, we'd have a !ot more pig buildings blown to smithereens by now, and that just is not happening. I think there may possibly be a greater disillusionment with the usefulness of elected politics, which would explain why there weren't many people working for candidates this fall, but you guys should know by now that I Graubart & Sons may run small ads, but they have big values. CLEARANCE SALE ~#;,;< __ , ... \ ..• :~~,_ - __ .., .. •.· ~ .. ; .... ,~ .. Schenectady's famous diamond shop, (for three generations) 166 Jay St. THREE UNION GR.l\,DUATES ,- IN FAMILY NOW 2nd BIG WEEKl \Srilliantly Done! Devastatingly Funny.\ ~N.Y. Daily \A TRIUMPH!\ -Jud1:11 Crisf, New York Magazlnl • SPORT SHIRTS • OUTERWEAR • SUITS • RAINCOATS • SPORT COATS • SWEATERS • SLACKS • DUNGAREE- (Regular & Bells) 20% to 50% OFF DAVE'S DAILY at 12:55 - 3:05 5:15 - 7:30 and 9:40 Men's Wear- Boys' Wear • Under 17 Not Admitted • TELt~HQNE H: 4.9609 4.53 STATE STREET wouldn't think that's bad:..-and I don't. Working to elect a politician is sorta like Jim Brown handing Lester Maddox a pick (not an axe) handle. A lot of use, myself most decidedly included, seem to think - o·u.r ,committment to saving this planet was taken final care of during the .rinky-dink student strike last spring. No, it was not. Some say we 4ave nothing left to do, I mean, Nixon's ''winding down\ the war in Vietnam, and he's \reformed\ the draft and :all. Leaving aside the fact that Dick would sooner miss a football game than make those refonns on his own without some potent pressure brought to bear on him (ahem!), people ar~ still being poisonec;l, jailed, robbed, killed, castrated, and brainwashed • by this dying rnonolith we .call Amerika. The students .of the 1950s were called the Silent Generation, but they really didn't know much better. ·If the students of the 1970s ate called the Silenced Generation, that will be obscene, and we can point the damning· fingers right .into our mirrors. So far, the gr()up has solicited statements of p.olicy from many local bWiinesses and mQDjcipal otganizatio.-s and hils receiVed a · most gratifyi.-g r.esponse. Tile acquisition of the pol'icy statements will lead to more specific analysis of the participating fii'IDs. Professor. Holmes stated that tllis :survey will be completed by March at which time a report of the findings will be subinitted to the Human Rights Commission. For further .information, contact: Andrew M. Crisses 377· 9312, Davidson 214 * * *· * The;: Mountebanks have announced that. tryouts for \Baal a play py Beitolt Brecllt, will be held on Wednesday and Thursday, January 13 and 14 ~t 7:00 p.m. in Nott Memorial. All who may be interested are invited to attend. · * * *' * ' ' -~ •' ', •• ' : -' ~ • • ~ ' ' - ' • ' • \ ' ' ~ :- ~ ;> -~ • ':· . : :c ' ' • . ' •• ' ' \' .. ' ' . • ' - • ~ . - ' ~· ..... . . ' . . . ... E • .• . ng1neenng & Science Graduates The Xerox Representative will be on campus · Sign up at your placement office, totlay. XEROX An Equal Opportunity Employer (mlf} XEROX IS A REGI~TERED TAADI;MARK OF XEROX CORPORATION , \

., r t The President's third QED session will be held Monday, January 18, at 7:30 in Hale House Student Lounge. Topic will b~ \The College Center.\ * * * * A:tr elementary Hebrew course will be given by Mr. Wellouix at 8:30 - 9:30 on Tues(lay ·evenings at the Beth Israel Educa.tion~rl Center, Ea!!tem Parkway (near Halltown Road.} Hillel announces three non- credit evening courses all given on Wednesdays from 8:15 - 9:00 to begin 1anrtary 20, 1971. They are: Elementary talmud ... Rabbi R:osenblmn Hebrew Conversation- !Vir. Welcovics Jewish History-instructor tQ be annotmced. * * * * Interested in volunteer work with the YWCA as an Assistant Leader with a group of junior high . school girls at Oneida School (near Ellis Hospital)? Time commitment would be two afternoons a month. See Mrs. Beam in Old Gym Hall * * * * A representative frolli the Peace Corps will be in the Placement Office on Wednesday, February 17; 197l to interview students interested in this branch of se.rvice Any interested students should sign up in the Placement Office before that date. There is plenty of available infomtation in the Placement Office, IN Wells House. FERRO PHARMACY s1s Nittstieei - Schenectady, N, Y. Fl 7-0510 FOIJNTAIN SERVICE One bloc'k frCim Brownell Ga~e Information on Fellowships, Grants, Loans for Graduate Study is available for review in Mrs. Beam's office, Old Gym Hall. On next Monday ·a draft counselor training course will begin at the Schenectady Peace a:nd Draft Information Center. If you can spend two hours each New information is in the week .counseling at the Center following area·s: wild.Iife a1,1d want to learn the draft laws consetvatio:n, educational to do this, call Chades Lynch, measurement, psychology, law Director of the Center. Call enforcement assistance, modern Saturday 10-3 or no later thart foreign. languag~s. hi_gher ~ Mondiy 12-5. Phone: 374-3561. educatwn . p.rof·essron.s, The Center is located at 514 jeurnalistn, radiation science, State St. and prote.ctiort, library education, . city and regional .planning for black students, 1abor relations, education of handicapped children. Also av:;tUable for review are announcements for Summer .study prograr:rt& and/ or study abroad information received from Jackson Lab in Bar Harbor, Maine, Rotary International, and Oxford. The next session of the Student - Faculty. Bridge Club will be held on January 19, 1971 in the Hale House Faculty Lounge at 7:45. All those interested in participating are welcome. * * * * A collection of oriental rugs, wall hangings and woven objects will be on display through Feb. 7 in the Schaffer Library at Union College. The articles exhibited are owned by Union professors Carl 1. George and Hugh Allen Wilson. * * * * Le Cercle Francais again invites all students interested in speaking in French to the French Table in West College, every Tuesday and Thursday at 12:30. • WRUC HAS- BEGUN BROADCASTiNG FOR THE WINTER TERM. ANYONE INTERESTED IN J-OINING THE STATlON IN ANY CAPACITY IS URGED TO CALL GENERAL MANAGER, BOB DITTER AT 343·8650. CHOICE AIR..:TJME IS STILL AVAILABLE. OPPORTUNITY, spareti_me, addressing envelopes · and circulars! Make $27.00 per . - thousand~. -Handwritten or typed, .in your home. -Send just $2. for INSTRUCTIONS and a LIST OF FIRMS USING ADDRESSERS. Satisfaction. Guaranteed! B& V Enterprises, Dept. 12-30, PO Box 398, Pearblossom, Calif. 93553. ·- CONCORDIENSIS, JAN. 8,-1971 PAGE 3 - Letter to the Editor · To The Edito~: Last term, a minor uproar was raised over administration interest· in a calendar revision. Many students believed that the administration was atteril,pting to enact such a revision without considering student opinion. In a conversation with a member 0f the Faculty Council, I learned that although a new calendar was discussed at the Faculty Council meeting, it was not formally proposed. Thus, the commotion raised ovet the issue was more the result of a lack of mutual understanding than a lack of faith or judgement. I believe that this incident is but one of many clear indications that out nresent svstem of campus·governancesuffers serious deficienCies for this reason I eagerly await the report of the Ad Hoc Committee on Go'l/ernance of the College, which is due to be released this term. I trust that the committee report will address itself to the problem of governmental communication on campus. Phil Robinson '71 The Social Committee · pre§ents Cannonball Adderly in a free workshop Friday, January IS, at 4:00 p.m. in SSOI6 and in concert Saturltay, January 16 at 8:00 p.m. in Memorial Chapel. Ti~kets for the concert are $3.00 for Union students and $3.50 for aU others and at the door. They may purchased at Student Activities . TEACHERS NEEDED Opportunities for beginning and experienced candidates, private schools, coast to coast. Also public schools in the northeast. Especially sciences, math, languages. Write today for particulars. SCHOOL SERVICE BUREAU Post Office Box 278K Windsor, Connecticut 06095 Tel: 203-688-6409 CLIP THIS COUPON Buy 2-Get 1 Free Jllb'S Giant SUBMARINE with this.coupon Wth• NEll R~tBeef SANDWICH OFFER EXPIRES JAN. 31, 1971 GOOD AT ALL LOCATIONS OPEN 7 DAYS A WEEK CLIP THIS COUPON GENESEE BEER POSTER COMPEnTIOH FIRST • SECOND • THIRD ·- FOURT.H PRlZE-SSOO EACH 1. Competition is·open to all persons 18 years of age and over. No proof of purchase or other consideration Is required. 2, Competition period, January 1 thru Marcl\31, 1971. Ali' entries must be received by March 31., 1971. 3. Wiru:jers will be reproduced In lull color lithogra- phy, 20\ x -28\. Ali entries must be 20\ x 28\; either horizonlal.or vertical. 4. ·each.rmtry must.showor depict, In some manner, RULES AND CONDITIONS • somewhe(e in the design the Genesee name or logo- type, or a Genesee packagE! (Genesee Beer, Genesee Cream Ale or Fyle & Drum Beer). 5. entries will be jydged or1 a basis of originality, art technique and suitability for reproduction, without limitation ·as tei theme or content, subject to final ap- proval of Stele alcoholic beverage control agt:~ncles. 6. Each of iour winners will receive $500.00. Winning entries become the proparty of The Genesee Brewing Co., Inc., and will be used in the sales ·promotion activities of the Company. 7. All entrants will receive a set of the four winning posters. ll. E:ach entry must be identified, in upper left hand cotner...gf the reverse side with entrant's name, ad- dress, age, and address to which entry should be returned after March 31,1971. g, Judges will be Leo Kllplan, Artist, Rochester, N' Y.; ENTRIES SHOULD BE SENT TO: John Sidebotham, Creative Director, Wm. Esty Co., New York City; Laurene Ostrowski, Design Major, SyracuM University School of Art. 10. Employees ol the sponsor, members of their lam· illes, and sponsor's advertising, agel'cy, are not eli- gible. State alcoholic bevenige control regulations also prohibit participation by retail or wholesale li- censees and members of their famiiies. 1i. Competition is void where prohibited by $tate alcoholic beverage control regulations GENESEE BEER.POST,ER COMPETIT-ION c/o GREAT LAKES PRESS • 439 CENTRAL AVENUE • ROCHESTER. NEW YORK 14605

\ PAGE 4 CONCOROIENSIS, JAN. 8, '1971 Concordy Sports Depleted 0-1 Mermen Face Harpur Saturday · '7 4 Hoop Off To Fast Start· by GEORGE BAIN Lead by co-captains · Burt Yankivet and Mike Horwath, the varsity swim team swings back into action this Saturday afternoon, traveHing to Binghamton to play Harpur. The depleted squad, which had four members quit on it aver the Christmas layoff, sports a 0-l record, losing to the University ·of Vermont 76-37 on December 3. The strong Vermonters took firsts in ten of the thirteen events, sweeping the 200 yard freestyle, individual medley, and backstroke events and both diving events. Dave Seward gave the Garnet its first win with a 23.5 clocking in the 50 yard freestyle, and he finished second to Burt Yankiver in the 100 yard freestyle. The co-captain's winning time was 53.1. Union's freestyle relay team, intact for its second year, embarrassed the visitor's team with a 49 second victory. Sophomore Steve Hill combined with the three seniors - Yankiver, Seward, and Horwath - for the uncontested victory in the time of 3:38.5. · After two more road meets, against Norwich and Hobart, the team hosts King's Point on January 30, for the first of the four remaining home meets. . ' Skaters Pounded By Lenox In Wednesday Opener, 9-4 by BILL HOLLERAN The Hockey Club opened its season on a sour note Wednesday afternoon, bowing to the Lenox School on the Martins' rink, 9-4. The contest was no improvement over last year's 9-:-5 loss at Lenox, and was the fifth consecutive defeat for the pucksters. Union aropped all four of its games last winter. The Garnet was in the game only during the opening moments of the contest. After Lenox opened the scoring early in the first period, Chris O'Neil drove home a feed from Tom Goss at 3:48 to knot the score at 1-1. . From then on it was all The third period featured some well-played, even-.up hockey as the Garnet struggled to come back. The . pucksters, und~rstandably out of shape with only one practice under their belts, nonetheless played the Martins on even terms. The two squads traded solo goals and managed six shots on goal apiece in the period. Lenox moved ahead 9-3 with a score at 4:30 of the stanza, and Goss tallied for the Dutchmen at 7:05 to complete the scoring. Goss' line, with O'Neil and Brad Hastings on the wings, accounted for three of the four Union goals and seven of eight Gamet scoring points . by MARTY BERMAN The Frosh hoop squad opened up its season with two big vic:tories, over Albany State and Rockwood Academy, before Christmas vacation. The Albany game was quite an upset as the yearlings battled back to a come-from-behind Victory. Stan O'Brien came off the bench to spark a late surge, and his running ten-foot bank shot at the buzzer gave Unian a dramatic 6()..58 win. A substantial home crowd witnessed some fine disciplined basketball an the part of the Dutchmen and · an· exciting display of \playground basketball\ on Albany's behalf. The State squad appeared to be the Tri-Cities' answer to Herman \Helicopter\ Jones and Harlem River Drive hardcourt basket ball. They rarely set up in any formation, preferring individual efforts for their scores. While disdaining the pass, they repeatedly made fade-away jump shots from the head of the key or off balance drving shots underneath. The Dutchmen fell behind early at 18;.11 dUe to some poor· shooting, but managed to stay close on the hustle of Herb Reichenbach and the overall play of Bill Carmody. The Garnet left the court at halftime leading 31- 30. The see-saw battle continued into the second half: With 7:06 to go in the tilt, Reggie Smith put State up by seven with an J 8- footer. It was at this time that O'Brien came off the bench. With a little u.ttdei: three minutes showing on the clock, his steal and resulting fast break layup narrowed the deficit to four points and picked up the tempo. Union's press started to tell and Albany was unable to score downhill for Union, as the Martins reeled off five straight tallies. The Garnet did JlOt score again until the six minute mark of the second p~riQd, and went into the dressing room at the end of the middle stanza trailing 8-3. Cagers Amaze in Posting 6-1 Record, Tourney Win Surprisingly, the Dutchmen were not as badly outplayed in the first two periods. as the score might indicate. The skaters were only outshot l9-f5 and at times 'outplayed Lenox, putting together several fine rushes on net. The pucksters, h.owever, were victimized time and again by a slow defense that was constantly caught up ice and out of position. Lenox outshot Union overall, 25-21 S·wimming, Outi\g Notes Continued from Page 1 visitors, 115-83. The Garnet used a second half press and 30 points from Bacher to open a six point lead into the eventual 33 point margin of victory. The- 115 total points set a . Dutchmen and Fieldhouse record. In the Capital City Tournament, Union drew Siena as ;heir first round foe. A year ago, the Indians embarrassed the· Garnet, 94-70. This year was sweet revenge for Coach Gary Walter's squad as Union managed an 83-73 win. ,; In the finals, Union put five men in double figures in a come from behind 7l..Q7 upset over . host Albany State. Senior co- captain Dave Shames and sophomore defensive star Geoff Walker, who had been averaging a combined total of less than seven points a game, scored 18 and 13 points respectively. The winter scuba class needs Bacher and Doyle each had 14, more pupils and meets four times while Tedisco settled for 11, the a week ~ at l :30 on Monday lowest output of his varsity and 2:30 on Tuesday, career. Wednesday, and Thursday. See The junior did, however, turn Coach McMurray at the Gym. in an outstanding overall floor Lifeguards are heeded· for. ~ .game; Ie'ading· tJte tealn both Wednesday afternoons - and' · nights in- assists.· Tedis!iiO · was Saturdays from 2:00 to 4:30. See Coach McMurray. * * * * Ski touring and snowshoeing . wiU he the main activity of t·he Union Outing Club winter term. All interested in participating in future outings are asked to meet in Carnegie Hall tomorrow, Saturday, at 1:00 p.m. to fit equipment. lntramurals Any student interested in officiating intramural basketball games shoUld sign-up for the games they wish to referee in Coach Lawrence's office In the gym. Pay is Sl.OO per game. named the tournament's Most Valuable Player. In addition, Doyle was named to the All- · Tournament Team. The story of the Garnet's success .thus far has been its team balance. Union has three men, Tedisco, Bacher, and Doyle, all averaging in double figures. Tedisco was the only player in that department a year ago. This season the 5' 7\ star is averaging 23.5 points a game with six assists per game, while Bacher is averaging 18 points and · is shooting at a .616 percentage, and Doyle 17.2 a game and a .586 percentage. As a team, Union is shooting better than 50 per cent, Tonight, Union will put its six game winning streak and five game Memorial Fieldhouse victory skein on the line against Alfred. The Saxons sport a 3-2 record and boast four starters averaging in double figures. On Saturday night, Hobart will b~ at the Fieldhouse with five double figure scorers and the nation's leading rebounder in 6.' 5\ Bob McDowell. McDowell has been clearing the boards at a pace of 27 per game. Freshman Bruce Beswick leads the visitors in scoring with a 20.5 average. It is expected that senior ~;:o­ captain Rit Gallucci and sophomore Jim Bolz, both 6'4\ will be available for full time duty. The pair both suffered early season injuries. Rich Goldberg, however, a 6' 3\ junior, is still recovering from a bout with pneumonia and may not see action. in the last 3:14 of the game. With 1:55 still left on the clotck, . O''Brien!s follow up cut the lead · to two _and Carmody tied the score on a 20-footer with 77 seconds still remaining. This al:l set the stage for · O'Brien's final heroics. Union gained possession of the hall and held for the last shot, which O'Brien banked in at the buzzer. Carmody was high man for the Dutch, hitting for 14 points, while Reichenbach and Tom Combs each had eleYen. Top man for the game was Albany's Reggie Smith with 20. Rockwood Academy was the first test for the yearlings but failed to even serve ,as a prep for the Albany contest. The scouts will have to cough this one up as highly regarded Rockwood was · poor even by prep school standards. The outcome was never in doubt as the Dutchmen held Rockwood scoreless for 4.:57 and without a field goal for the first 6:04. Mter nine minutes the score was 32-5. Union awned the boards and completely dommated play.. Only su}l•par shooting kept the score \cfose\. Rockwood battled :back to near respectability in the second half before finally bowing,.82-47. . Carmody looked good and led :the Gamet scorers with 16 points. AI Westbrook~ sporting a hot band, bad 14 points. O'Brien with nine, along with Reichenbach and Gino Quirlc with eight each, {Qllowed in the scoring parade. Rockwood saved some face in that their center Dave Robinson led all scorers with 22 points. · This weekend the yearling hoopers put their . unblemished record on the line against tough · squads from Alfred and Hobart. Both games are at the Field House 'and will begin at 6:15p.m. * * *· * . Ski touring and snowshoeing · wtll be the main activity of the Union Outing Club winter tenn. All interested in partidpating in future outings are asked to meet in Carnegie Hall tomorrow, Saturday, at 1 :00 p.m. to · fit equipment. FANTASTIC WINTER CLEARANCE 20 - 50% OFF Leathers Sweaters Outerwear Pants Suits Sports Coats m~~... .· .. ~l}utrt ~bnp· · 326 STATE STREE'.r, 377 ·3061 Open Thurs~ 'til 9 '

ar a . n • Founded· at Union College 18'17 SCHENECTADY, NEW YORK,. ,JANUARY 12, 1971 Price Twenty Cents Renovations Planned As Science Center Finishes The Social Committee presents Cannonball Adderly in a free workshop Friday, January 15, at 4 p.m. in SS 016 and in concert-on Saturday, January 16. The time. of the Saturday concert has been changed to 8:30, in ,Memorial Chapel. Tickets for the concert are $3.00 for Union students and $3.50 jdr all others and at the doqr. They may be purchased at Student Activities. by LOUIS S. SNITKOFF Th·e new Science and Engineering Center, after gracing the campus with its various stages of incompl~tion for three years, is new open for classes. Although, construction of the building, slated to end last April, ·has not been completed, the Biology department has been the first to move into the new complex. Chemistry will follow suit, beginning February 1. The delay in completion of the $6 million center, said Professor Raymond Rappaport of the Department of Biological Sciences, can be attributed to several strikes and to the massive South Mall undertaking in Albany. The $1 billion Capital city project created· a severe shortage of craftsmen in the area and resulted in recruitment of workers from Canada for the Science center. . The complex, virtually all laboratories (there are only two classrooms in the new building) offers a solution to the acute lack of laboratory space which has Computer Gains ·p~pu larity In Social Sc1ence Courses Five years ago, a course m macroeconomics at Union regularly attracted only a handful of students and generally was considered a \gut\ course by undergraduates. Now the students not only hear what can happen, they can see concrete evidence of the various factors which interrelate and determine the national economic picture.\ Others in the social sciences and the humanities make similar use of the computer in projects ranging from analysing election result.> and voter patterns to verifying the authenticity of works attributed to certain authors and establishing word use groupings that make the tea~hing of foreign languages eas1er. paper work has been done by the computer center since its opening in 1962. However, with the dramatic increase in student interest over the past three years, computer availability is now restricted to undergraduates and faculty members on a first come basis 10 hours a day. One enterprising user determined that in the Schenectady area, it is less likely to rain on Wednesdays than any other day in the months of July and August. So he planned outings for a local summer program on that day and hasn't been rained opt in two years. plagued Center II course programming. \Students can now work in three freshman Biolegy Labs instead of one, and three freshman Chemistry labs instead of one and one-half,\ said James D. Palmer, Dean of the Center for Science and Engineering. With Bailey Hall and Butterfield soon to be vacated by the Biology and Chemistry Departments, renovation has begun, to convert the structures into classroom and lecture buildings. Due to the age of the buildings and the fact that they are structurally inadequate' to support heavy machinery, nothing radical in the way of change has been planned. !he ceiling will be dropped in Bailey Hall, and many of the offices originally formed by wooden partitions will be reconverted into classrooms, as will the laboratories. Bailey Hall 304, a large lecture hall, will probably be converted for individual student research purposes. According to Dean Palmer, a \safe estimate\ for the completion ·of the renovation work is Winter term '71-72. At this time, Physics; Psychology and Carnegie Hall will all be vacated by their res.pective inhabitants. Palmer is reasonably certain that some of the vacated _space will be used by the Counseling service which desperately needs adequate space. Physics will probably be used fer faculty offices, and Carnegie will be vacated for \student use.\ However, he said, there is much work to be done in Carnegie before it will be adequate for the students' needs. However, problems caused by the new center, in terms of programming, cannot be minimized. Without the use of Bailey and Butterfield, the Biology and Chemistry departments are f o reed to schedule classes in Psychology, Physics, Electrical Engineering and Carnegie, as well as in Humanities and Social Sciences Buildings. The consequences, said Rappaport, have been more 8:30 classes and morning labs. Programming problems have also been compounded by the fact that .. there are more closed courses than ever befo.re, as more instructors are placing upper limits on enrollment. And since there are more students taking more courses, the whole day must be used to accomodate the needs,\ he added. In addition,. he cited the ••prime time problem\ in that there is really an oversupply of lecture rooms, except during the period from 10:30 to 12:30 - the time during which students and professors most prefer to hold classes. A cursory examination of the interior of the new center will prove quite demonstrably that its facilities are far superior to those of any of the existing science Continued on Page 1 Class Representatives Elections Next· Week This coming week, Union students will ·have their third opportunity in seven months t~ elect class officers. Elections held during the third week in May 1970 were voided by the Student Senate due to lack of adequate participation. A second election, scheduled for early October, again failed to draw candidates and voters. • This winter, more than 75 students have signed up for that same course which deals with broad economic theory and national policy. and the enrollment had to be limited because of ovetflow demand. The renaissance of interest in macroeconomics is not unique at the college nor is it necessarily indicative of the sometimes fickle academic taste of students.· Rather, a major appeal of the course is the increasing use of computers as part of the teaching method. The. use of the computer in economics illustrates the rapidly expanding areas touched by data machines. hi academic circles, instructors in the social sciences and the humanities have joined the scientists, engineers and mathematicians in making the computer an integral part of the college curriculum. \A person who doesn't understand computers risks becoming an illiterate in modern society,\ says Theodore G. Schwarz, Dire.ctor of lnformation Systems and Computer Services. Schwarz,. whose computer center runs 22 hours a day, Action Commit.tee Plans Activist Guest Speaker. The Senate has subsequently abolished the offices of Class Vice-President, Class Secretary and Class Treasurer. Students will be voting to elect only representatives from their respective classes. These representatives will become members of the College Discipline Board and the Student Senate Committee on Committees. The Committee on Committees has the responsibility of choosing students for student committees and of recommending to the President the names of students to sit on College Committees, such as the Admissions Committee and Curricular Affairs Committee. In macroeconomics, Thomas R. Kershner of the Department of Economics has constructed a model of the American economy in the college's computer, a gift from the General Electric Company three years ago. Using the simulation, students attack problems such as the nation's unemployment rate or tax level and are able to see what effect changes will have on the total national economy. . \I can lecture at length on · policy and theory,\ says Kershner. \But when students can feed data into the computer and quickly see the consequences of expanding the money supply or raising the taxes, it is much more vital and exciting and has more meaning for them.\ estimates that presently 70 to 80 The Student Action percent of all Union students will Committee will hold its first have some experience with the meeting _of the semester on data machines before they Thursday night, January 14 at graduate. 7:30 p.m. in SS 115. The general Highlighting this student meeting, which is to be chaired interest is a new computer by Committee President Skip science major which, although Mowry, will be preceeded by a only a year old, already has 40 guest speaker who will deal with undergraduates enrolled. _ the subject of corporate social Routine tasks including much . responsibility. of the college's administrative Evan Stark will deliver a talk Freshme~J, Sophomores and Juniors interested in studying abroad for a term or more are urged to visit the new Foreign Study Information Center, 2'11 Humanities. The Center has catalogues, and - other information to help students plan a program of study at almost any foreign University. Mrs. Warde ·will be in the office Monday and Wednesday afternoons to help students with their plans. entitled \Up Against the Corporate Wall,\ which, according to Professor Malcolm Willison, will . be largely concerned with the presence of the military industrial complex in the United States. Moreover, Stark may. outline several modes of action aimed at lessening the power of the conglomerate among corporate and military chieftains. Stark, who has been described . by Professor Willison as a \radical academic,\ has a masters degree in sociology . and has ·- taught at several universities. He served as one of the leaders of a program known as the Honeywell Project, which was an attempt on the part of a group of stockholders to pressure the Honeywell Corporation to stop the production of anti-personnel weapons. In addition to this speech, Stark is scheduled to attend a special seminar sponsored by the Sociology Department on Friday morning, January 15 at 10:00 A.M. in the Social Sciences Faculty Lounge. Students as well as faculty are invited to attend. The actual Student Action Committee meeting will involve itself in a variety of tentative proposals. There may be sentiment to launch a progtam modelled after the Honeywell Project, involving local industrial concentrations. Those who may be interested in proposing a plan or in working on socially significant issues are urged to attend. Petitions will be available tomorrow morning in the Student Activities Office. Each candidate must submit a petition signed by 80 of his or her classmates in order to be listed on the ballot. Petitions are due in Student activities at 9:00 A.M. on Wednesday, January 20. Elections will be held on Wednesday evening in the dormitories and fraternities. If no student in a particular class receives a majority in the first vote, a run~off will be held between the top two vote-getters. The students elected next week will serve through June, l97l.

. I PAGE 2 CONCORDIENSIS, JAN. 12, 1971 Grimsby And Eyewitness News· Team T raoeling Notepad. Acclaimed As Man of the Year T·:e.· Us A.ll .. · Sec. rets by MIKE MESEROLE The choice .here for Man of the Year in 1970, is Roger Grimsby and the Eyewitness News team. Immediately recogniza:ble to all New York City ~ metropolitan area residents, Grimsby and company make up WABC-TV's Emmy a ward winning 6 and 11 o'cloc.k Eyewitness News. by RAY KRISE JR picked up because the Albany airport was going to burn them.\ \Boston pay-phones are a rip- off.\ \The degree Qf Iikeability of a person is determined by his degree of unpretentiousness.\ The primary concern of television news departments should be to present the news, unpleasant as it may be, to the public, which is directly affected by it, without putting the public to sleep or resorting to cheap sensationalism. In New York City this is being done at W ABC (Channel 7) with the Eyewitness . . MEN OF THE YEAR: Roger Grimsby; Tex Antoine, Melba Tolliver, Jim Bouton and Bill Beutel. Plus Cosell, Schubeck, Noble, Lewis, Rivera, Johnson; Miller, I have this notebook that I · carry with me whenever I travel, and I write all kinds of important stuff in it - like how to get from the Boston airport to Harvard Square; the addresses of people I can crash with if I have· to; reminders like, \steal razor blades from work;\ all kinds of stUff that's of value, really, ·Only to me. But I also write down little things to use in stories, maybe, someday: There's some stuff I know is never really goin.g to fit into anything, but I hate to see it go to waste; so, if I may, I'd like to share some of them with \Liberated people (be they kids, women, entire countries or whatever) always fuck-up at first-..- they require time to· learn how to use their new-found freedoms. ~ until that time, they are arrogant, overheating lk obnoxious; those who point damning finge.rs at tbe newly-liberated peoples should remember what the long-time- liberated did with the atomic Aylward, Lape, and Al Primo. News format of news director AI killing entertainment critic John Pri.nlo. In a long overdue Schubeck; investigative dynamo departure from the conventional Milton Lewis; the irrepressible anchorman-sportsman-weather Howard . Cosell; soft spoken (wo)man set-up, Primo has charmer Melba Tolliver; · best personalized the news to a great selling \Ball Four\ author Jim degree by having the reporters Bouton; and for a touch of who actually covered a local respectability, former ABC event narrate the newsfilm in the European correspondent Bill studio. Beutel. The personal touch is the Mixed together with the on the important thing here. In the little scene commentary of several over two years since Eyewitness other reporters, Eyewitness News arrived on the scene, News, running for an. hour at viewers have been impressed by 6:00 and a half hour at 11:00, is a the earnestness of this reporting very good' news show. The and the refreshing way these presence of Roger Grimsby, reporters care about the people however, makes it a great news who make 'the news, not just show. Indeed it is the Great because they are good copy hut Grirnsby who is the show's star, b~cause they are people. In the presiding over it with well-placed television studio, too, the · wisecracks (on Hugh Addonizio's newsteam is an encouraging Newark: \If Diogenes. were to break from the dreary, no-funny- visit Newark these days, he'd put business reporting of· the past. out his lamp.\) and an uncanny These guys can actually laugh; ability .to deliver the news almost not the fake- 'fade into the as if he were reading it right off commercial' ;smirks, but. real the '1e.'Yers.fa~e. ; , . , .: , . . . • laughs. They are relaxed and At first glance, Gnmsby looks encourage the viewer to sit down as if he goes around kicking over and take it easy. old ladies' shopping carts at the Although the emphasis is A&P. The harpoon-like nose, the, stressed on t,eamwork, to the .. shifty eyebrows, the cold, tired ' extent that all team members are eyes, the fi:izzy sideburns, and the attired in sharp blue blazers with facial tan that runs out of gas an a gold \7\ sown on the breast inch from the hairline, all seem pocket, Eyewitness News is top to make him appear evil. Like heavy with individuals. The crew Canada's Pierre Trudeau, Roger inch1des, among others; the would not look at all out of place world's greatest and only in a misty graveyard at midnight. understandable weatherman - Looks aren't everything, Tex Antoine; debonaire ladY.;;,~w 1 ,though, and the fact is that '~}tt~ . ~-~·.;,;·~~ . . Q!nur nr · 17 ~c.~!f~ 95 ~tttt!li s Managiitg Editor James E. Stewart News Editor Louis S. Snitkoff Assoc. News Editor Peter Dickerman Features Editor Daniel Schochet Layout Editor Doug Wong 9:;~·~~tt/tt& . ,~L~ .. ~ \'ct~· Editor·in·Chief Peter J. Weingold Business Manager Lloyd Birns Asst. Business Managers DougTosh Doug Binder National Ad~. Mgr. Mark Shulman Sports Editor William J. Holleran Asst. Sports Editor Mark Shugoll Editors Emeriti William Outer 'Henry G. Fein Contributing Editor Richard L. Kramer Photography Editor Jody Saslow Asst. Photography Editors Charles Long Dave Conrey STAFF: Harris Samuels, Judy Steinbach, Michael Goler, Les Goldman, Joseph Achenbaum, David Conti, Greg Haml!n, Br~ce Garber, Michael Hollander, George Kaplan, Robert A. Levme, Mtke Meserole Thomas Morante, Ruth Morton, Barbara McDonald, Tom Mitchell, 'Jay Hobard, Len Solomon, George Bain, Marty Berman, Reid Russel, Gail Goodman, Mark Zubres and Michael Rosenberg. Pu~lished Tuesdays and Fridaysy du~~~fo~~~ ~~~.~~i~~~ :~p~:.~:~~~~.t ~~~~n~~ Umon ~olleg~lche,n~c;'~,;~~e ··Inc. Colle\c Publishers Representattv~. }60 Edu.catlona~ v;r~·~ Editori~l offi~e. Old'' Gym. Union College, Pubhcauon :Xfi::':tn:e ~~~ld P~blications. 771 State Street .. Schenectad)'• N.Y. 1~?0~. 3:6- 1 ·Entered in the Schenectady post office as Seco~d Class. Mm . ~~cr. ~~ 5 b~~ription 20 cents 3 copy:$6 a year delivered anywhere m the Untted States. --------------- ..... ........_~....--.....----- For Pants With a Flair Lafayette 416 State Street Downtown Grimsby is the best anchorman on the best local news show in the country. From the moment he opens the program with \Good evening, I'm Roger Grim§by, here now the news\ (aU the great ones have a snappy opening), the only thing the viewer can be sure of is that here comes. the news. On most news shows, this is all you expect __,_ and all you g~t. Not so ·with Grimsby and company. It is .not uncommon to see Eyewitness reporter Geraldo Rivera doing a story on the dangerously low supply of blood in the city's blood banks, while flat on his back giving blood himself. Or to see Doug Johnson reporting from in~ide one of the incredibly decrepit city Welfare Hotels on the plight of a family of eight ·living in ·one· ·room with np running water. Or to hear Melba Tolliver discuss how unfair it is that women are not allowed on the playiiiR (ield at Shea Stadiu111 before a Met game. you now: · \When we say something is sacred, it implies that we should use it sparinglyM-e.g., 'don't take the Lord's name iw vain' - yet, those things we consider sacred are precisely the things We should use most often. ''--Hell should be sacred \--Heaven should be profane.\ \Playboy has the widest circulation among virgins of any magazine other than 'Boys• Life.\ \Bill- Rogers' last name is really Rodereguiz, but he changed it. He has a · face like a crow, but eye~ like a raven (or maybe a stoned eagle). He comes from New Bedford, the whaling city, and he's one of those guys who's worked all over (at least, all over the Northeast). His toothless mouth has halitosis, but widens like a clown~s • whenever he smiles, which is about once every sentence. He loves to travel. He has three degrees in engineering from .. International Corres- pondant's School. He was carrying some flowers which he bomb.\ \What would the world be like if the lie had never been invented?'' \In a democratic state, the more people there are,. the less power each of them has.\ \underneath the sign that says 'Welcome. to Albany' in ·the Albany, N:Y., arport, is a big,. full-color picture of a Tobin's ham.\ \written on the side of a building: 'Kathy Rendirto (word crossed out) For Everyone'.\ Graubarf & Son$ may run srriaU .ads, but they .have big values •. Scbeoecady'a famou · dlaiDOad shop. (fOI' three pnerattou) 166 ~aySI. THR£E UNION GRi'\DUATES IN .FAt.iiLY - Not only tlta1, b4t \YOU also get Milt Lewis' great Walter Winchell impersonation, Cosell's super sincerity, and Jim Bouton trying to rationally describe the NFL's ridiculous play-off possibilities (laughing himself hoarse in the process). And right in the middle is Roger Grimsby; straight-faced, mean, sarc~stic, loved by New York City dog haters, and hated by Women's Lib. Put it all together (if you'll pardon the expression) and you've got an Emmy, climbing ratings, 'a news show that is fun to watch, and 1970's Men of the Year. . . Nusbaum's 'fOutfitters to Men andY oung ~en\· 447-451 STATE ST. SCHENECTADY FILM Haps Presents Zero For Conduct One of the most beautiful films of all time. the predecessor to IF. WEDNESDAY, Jan. 13 7 9 11 ss016 $1.00 • A MAMA BIANCHI'S REST AURA NT 1135 Barrett St. Real Italian f,ood Cooked · To Order We Cater To Students The Friendliest Place in Town OPEN TO 3 A.M. FRI. a11d SAT.

Albany them.\ a rip- of a by his be they or at first,.- how to ~ those rs at tbe should atomic j be like been the the less says ·in -the a big,. Tobin's of a (word ATES . The President's third Q E D session will be held Monday, January 18, at 1:30 P.M. in Hale House Student Lounge, Topic will be ''The College Center\. * '* \' * . Walter Spencer will be hosted on WRUC's \Open Air with Dave Robbins\ this Thursday night at 9:00 P.M. Walter promises to tell a few stories he's collected during his stay a:t ''Union.\ (State of Union Address) * * * \' Skiers!! Do you need riders to fill up your cars on ski trips? Do you. want a ride to a ski area for a day or weekend outing? Give me your name and 'I will match riders and. ride~. Also, for information on Sugarbush (Special Student Monday through Friday lift ticket rate for January only: $20.00 .~ Regular Daily Student rate is $8.00 with .college Lb.), Mt. ~now .(Nastar on . Weekend~), or ~tamount _, (Nastar) Coptact: I,arry Langmore, Theta Delta Chi, 346- 9272. * * \' * The Philomatheon Society will live again. Any students interested in debating or other forensic activities should come to the Ha-le House Student Lounge on Thursday, January 14, at 7:0t> P.M. * * * * The Riverside School on Front Street is looking for volunteers (men or women} for their Day Care Center for 3-5 year olds from 3-6 P.M. If interested please contact: Miss Ferwilliger 393-5360 or Mrs. Schwab 372- 0518. ' '. - * *. -\' -~ The Gay Liberation Front of Albany wishes to announce that it · holds its llleetings every Thursday night at 8:30 P.M. at the Unitarian Church, 405 Washington Ave., Albany, New York. \' \' * * Students are reminded that Carnegie Hall is open all night ·Monday-Thursday and until 2 A.M. Friday-Sunday. This is in addition to the all-night study room in the Library. Please leave aU rooms free of litter. * * \' \' EXPERT Je'\tvelry and WATCH REPAIR ~ y FREE ESTlMATES Our Work Is Furly Guaranteed DOWNTOWN 163 Jay St., Sch'dy . -... 372·0540 OPEN TUSS. & THURS • 'TIL 9 P.M. \ CONCORDIENSIS, JAN. 12, 1971 PAGE3 Biology Moves To New Headquarters From Page I around the building and the you're not using something, you The cross country ski trip sponsored by the Union Outing Club, for this weekend wiH be planned Wednesday afternoon, 4:30 P.M., in the Fox House Lounge. All students who have indicated their intention to participate are urged to attend or call Randy Sutter. structures. Every lab is equipped adjustable swivel chairs, the send it off to the basement, with sinks, an exhaust hood and heating system is certainly worth ·whereas you would always have outlets for gas (for use in bunsen mentioning. The reason for the to leave it out on a table,. taking burners.) The philisophy behind surprisingly comfortable up valuable research space.\ * * * * Female student interested· in starring in student film please contact Art Frazer at 370-1599. Only girls seriously interested need apply.' \' \' * * this, says Palmer, is \integrated atmosphere created by the Plans for the immediate future thinking - to maximize the system, says l>rofessoi .nclude the completion of utlization of space and facilities. Rappaport, is that wann air unfinished work on the building, In this manner, each laboratory continually enters the room from as well as continued renovation room is extremely versatile in its the sides, while the overhead of Bailey and Butterfield. In the capabilities. If one department ducts introduce a mixture of hot spring, outdoor landscaping of grows and another shrinks, the and cold air controlled by the the grounds surrounding the change can be easily thermostat. center will include several accomodated.\ In addition, each · On the issue of professors' courtyards for the students' use. labOFatory has -two smaller, research facilities, Rappaport In addition, a lecture hall is in adjoining rooms that do not face asserted \the quality of space is the planning stage. The hall the corridor. These rooms are infinitely better. Although there would be enclosed in a building designed for use as storage areas has been some contraction in to be situated near the new as well as for specialized terms of squ!lre footage, there is science complex, would seat 200- preparatory work. much more storage space when 400, and could conceivably be Besides the color of the walls,- one considers the size of the us.ed for Mountebanks AmoqJhous Lives the elevators the new pavement unfinished basement. Now, when productions as welL 'i:Ii!i!:tHI!l:t::l:!tl:Ii!l::Jrlmi:nl:::r:IIIJH!i:~::ri:i1~~iH1liltil1m:::l:flfli~:rl:::rr::rrrm::::::::::mit11II1tt::::r:rrrrr::m:r:tm:tiJ:r:mr:::m::::::u::tt::rrm::.::::mt\tt:rrttt:Itt:rrr:m:nm:rrr:~rt:J::::=_:,:t::,:uu::tt/:,: If you are a senior. •• could be the most im~ortant year of your life. As you contemplate one of the'most important decisions of your Hfe, you will want to remember this: it is not just \a job\ you are seeking-it should be the beginning of a career. And if it is to be succe~sful, both you and your employer must need and want each other. To help you with your decision, we invite you to con- sider the opportunities at Pratt & Whitney Aircraft. Cur- rently, our engineers and scientists are exploring the ever-broadening avenues of energy conversion for every environment ... all opening up new avenues of explo- ration in every field of aerospace, marine and industrial power appli.cation. The technical staff working on these programs, backed by Management's determination to provide the best and most advanced facilities and sci- entific apparatus, has already given the Company a firm foothold in the current land, sea, air and space pro- grams so vital to our country's future. We select our engineers and scientists carefully. Moti- vate them well. Give them the equipment and facilities only a leader can provide. Offer them company-paid, graduate-education opportunities. Encourage them to push into fields that have not been explored before. Keep them reaching for a little bit more responsibility than they can manage. Reward them well when they do manage it. Your degree can be a B.S., M.S., or Ph.D. in: • MECHANICAL ENGINEERING . • AERONAUTICAL ENGINEERING • ENGINEERING SCIENCE • ENGINEERING MECHANICS If your degree is in another field, consult your college placement officer-or write Mr. Len Black, Engineering Department, Pratt & Whitney Aircraft, East Hartford, Connecticut 06108. • Pr8tt & Whitney ~ircraft u DIVISION OF UNITED AIRCRAFT CORPORATION ·~ EAST HARTFORD AND MIDDLETOWN, CONNECTICUT An Equal Opportunity Employtr ..

PAGE 4 CONCORDIENSIS, JAN. 12, 1971 Concordy Sports Streaking Hoopsters Push Skein To Eight Unbeaten Mats Top Harpur by MARK SHUGOLL The Union basketball team drew two capacity crowds and won two more ball games. over the weekend. Before 2,200 fans each night, the Garnet held off Alfred .81-75, and Hobart.59-57 to raise their won-lost record to 8- 1. The Dutchmen have already won more games than they did in all of last season. On Friday night versus Alfred, the Garnet fell behind at the outset but bounced back to take a 30-18 lead. By halftime the Saxons had cut the margin to 40- 34. The Saxons shot reasonably well and quietly stayed within striking distance throughout the second half. The closest they could get, however, was five points as the Garnet chalked up their seventh in a row. Jim Tedisco led all scorers with 24 points, while Mike Doyle poured in 23 and Tom Bacher 15. On Saturday night Hobart proved a stubborn eighth victim for the Garnet. Union again shot poorly as both Bacher and Doyle had sub-par ball games. Walker, however, picked up the slack, shining at both ends of the court notably in the second half. Frosh Wins Hoop Twice by JAY HOBART The Union freshman basket ball team extended U1eir winning ways over the weekend. with victories over Alfred and Schenectady Community College in Memorial Field House. The Garnet yearlings handily defeated Alfred Friday night, 74- 58, in a contest where the outcome was never in doubt. 5- 10 guard Bill Carmody, who poured in 26 points against the visitors, led the Dutchmen attack. Union opened a 37-28 halftime lead as Herb Reichenbach scored 12 points. Carm,ody added 18 markers in the second half to assure victory for the hosts. Richenbach's second half production of 7 points gave him a game total of 19. Saturday night saw the Garnet gain another easy victory over Schenectady Community College, 89-76, in a game characterized by sloppy play. sec lacked height and was severely outclassed. Union raced to a 49-31 halftime lead that was never threatened. David Hughs lead Union with 22 points while Harry Sianford of sec was high for all scorers with 26. Carmody, who leads the Dutchmen with a 16 point average. collected 9 points in the game. The Gamet's two victories boosted their record to 4-0. and they put their unbeaten string on the line tonight at 7:30 against Siena at the Field House. DIAMANTE'S Enjoy 0\!r Fine Home Cooked holion 'Food in Ou• Comfortable Dining Room Opp. The Brownell Gate on No\ Stntet Open Ooily I 0 to I A .M Sundoyw S PM. to • .A.M Notec;l. primarily for his defense, the sophomore popped for twelve points and got the Dutchmen back into the game after they fell behind 37-26 at the half. Walker and the rest of the Garnet came out fired up at the start of the second stanza, a,nd brought the screaming crowd to its feet when the hoopsters pulled even at 43 with thirteen and a half minutes to play in the game. The Gamet shoo)< off their cold-shooting woes by gunning over the tenacious Statesmen zone defense. The Garnet also switched into a pressing 2-3 zone themselves, a move which confused Hobart and was instrumental in the Garnet comeback. With the Dutchmen on the long end of a 58-54 score and one minute left to play, Miller converted a three-point play to bring Hobart to within a point. but then missed a short jumper 50 seconds later with his team still down by only one. The Statesmen had one more chance when a jump ball was called after Miller's shot. Walker, hawever, stole the tap, and the Statesmen were forced to intentionally foul Tedisco. The junior made only one of the two attempts from the line, and a desperation fling by the visitors at the buzzer fell short. Tedisco finished with 20 points for Union, while Miller tallied 22 for Hobart. Union returns to the boards on Long Island Wednesday night against Kings Point. The Garnet do not return home until Saturday evening, January 23 when they host Wesleyan. Saturday, at Binghamton, the Garnet Grapplers continued their winning ways by easily defeating a strong' Harper College squad, 22-12. The triumph brings the team's mark. to 2-Q; they also placed first .at the Albany State Tournament for the second year in a row. Harpur was supposed to be a serious test for the freshman dominated Union team. The Colonials sported a 4-l record, losing only to Oneonta 26-18. Coach Everling felt that a win this past weekend could indicate another fine season for his young team. Three outstanding per- formances sparked the Garnet . win Saturday against the 4-1 Colonials. Frosh AI Calabro turned in his fourth pin of the season at 118 to open the match and Pat Wardell (177) won his second pin to seal the victory. Gary Gurney at 158 lbs. did a fine job, decisioning ·his opponent, 5-0. The other Union winners were Mark Zullo (12-5) captain Gary Morris (5-2), and 4th BIG WEEK! 11 Brilliantly Done! Devastatingly Funny.\ -N.Y. Daily DAILY at 12:55 - 3:05 5:15 - 7:30 and 9:40 • Under 17 Not Admitted • LUIGI'S RESTAURANT SPECIALIZING IN Italian· American Food Schenectad.y Dl 6-97+4 Enjoy Sizzling Steaks and Chops Visit Our Cocktail Bor CLEARANCE SALE • SPORT SHIRTS • OUTERWEAR • SUITS • RAINCOATS • SPORT COATS • SWEATERS • SLACKS • DUNGAREE- (Regular & Bells) 20% to 50% OFF DAVE'S ME!n's Wear- Boys' W-ear TElt?r:ONE F~ 4·9609 .453 STATE STREET Howard Benedict(I0-2). Coach Everling is pleased with the team's overall ptogress, especially Saturday's p-er- formance. Though Len Solomon (134) and Penn Sheldon (150) have yet to win, they are wrestling \up\ (in heavier weight classes than usual), and they both lost close decisions at Harpur (5-2 and 10- 7, respectively). Everling .also cited the improvement of frosh Bill Benedict (142) and Tracy Rich .(167). R.P.I. is the ·grapplers' next foe, the Garnet travel to troy to take on their arch-rivals on Tuesday, Jam1ary 19. Union's last visit to the Engineers' gym two years ago was the scene of one of the team's nost memorable victories. Down by a 16-12 score going into the final bout, the Dutchmen took the mate}]. when heavyweight Pete \Ox\ Kenyon pinned his opponent to give the Garnet a 17-16 win. Last year's match in Alumni Gym saw R.P.I. soundly trounced, 24-13, in a match accompanied bytt.as many bouts in the stands as on the mats. DARI-TREAT 2049 Van Vranken A Place To Eat and Meet Steak Dinner $1.99 Veal Dinner $1.75 Chicken Dinner $1.75 All Kinds of Fish Dinners & Sandwiches E • • ngtneertng & Science Graduates The Xerox Representative will be.on campus Thursday, Jan. 21 Sign up at your · placement office today . XEROX An Equal Opportunity Employer (m/f} · XEROX IS A REGISTERED TRADEMARK OF XEROX CORPORATION

the \' FounJetl at Union College 1877 VOLUME 1~0, NUMBER 20 SCHENECTADY, NEW YORK, JANUARY 15, 1971 Pass-Fail Change Heard, Calendar Plan Discussed Division I, while not 'voting on any substantive issues,,. discussed a number of topics which are importartt to many students, including the fut:Ure of comprehensive education and the expansion ·of .pass-fail, at a meeting yeste:rda y. Shortly after the beginning of the meeting, Professor Carl Niemeyer (who presided) presented a motion calling for the g~thering to dissolve into a Committee. of ·the Whole for discussion of what the Faculty Council Agenda calls \long-range program planning.\ The motion carried, and for nearly ninety minutes faculty members dealt with a variety of topics. · Orte professor stressed the importance of having some G.E. Peace Project A Community Program definitive news on the future academic calendar; in his view, this was the first priority for discussion.N terneyerread aloud a. memo from President Martin, which seemed to indicate that the administration is in the process of formulating sev~tal options as regards possible changes in the calendar. Presumably, these options will he presented to the entire college community for consideration. A faculty member stated that· he had heard rumors to the effect that the \umbrella will be withdrawn\ from the Comp. Ed. progra·m. • This 1 e d to a About torty students gathered projects were then proposed. A discussion during which several last night to hear Evan Stark market where food bought at people expressed dissatisfaction . explain the G. E. Production For wholesale prices and sold at with Con:rprehensive Education · Peace Project and the unveiling wholesale prices is already in the as it is presently constituted. Talk .of proposals for v·a io us formative stages and a collective also concerned the desirability of · community projects .including a garagewassuggested. modifying departmental \food conspiracy.\ Students will be needed to structures and major field Priee Twenty Cents The G.E. Project is composed corttact various civic, church, and requirements. Ort these subjects of people inthe Capital area who union· groups; their main there appeared to be a wide speaking in. Memorial Chapel Tuesday. desire 1)' discontinuation of all function Will be to cCOrre]ate divergence of opinion regarding G.E. research and production for information obtained by .listening specific proposals. military purposes; 2) conversion to these groups. A large, all- There was general agreement, of the great resources of G.E. - inclusive platform of community however, that communication both human and techni~al - to demands will then be presented, within the faculty should be socially creative production used . hoping to unify the many improved, especially as this may in constructive ways; 3) more disparate groups. involve the teaching of democratic control of what is There will be a meet.ing for all interdepartmental, thematic produced and how, of working interested students on Monday, courses. It should be noted that a conditions,.b.y_.alLemployees .. oL .. Janu!\ry )8. ;<tt. 7:30 .in .ss015 ... majority of those present. seemed G.E. and other community Commumty mteres~ ts. mtegral to favor the retention of Comp. people, as well as fairer for the success of the project. More on Page 3 ::~:.~ti~eth~ .. ~~ p~~~ts.inc~~:. Bett,·e·r y· o ·LI·g· .ht A• C an·dl··e research, educat10n, soul force . . · · ·. radical non-violence as a way of life including non-violent direct action). and the development of community among all those who Than Curse Mainten·ance become persuaded of the urgent Robert A. Welch, Director of need for these changes and the Physical Plant, discussing commit themselves to working Tuesday night's power failure, together for them. said tbat the cause was located in Schenectady workers are a faulty switch. employed in· the construction of: The defect caused a • short 1) the ·•people sniffer\ now being circuit which, each time the used against the general ·Maintenance Crew would population of Southeast Asia; 2) energize the power system, would do the research and development result in the immediate overload on airborne personnel detector of all power lines. removal. ··we try to get the roads and ' lots cleared before the faculty and staff arrive, and then we have to plow the walks before classes start,\ Welch said. Commenting on the efficacy of auxiliary lighting systems, he described those now being installed in newly renovated campus buildings (including Richmond, Silliman and North.) These are self-contained exit and emergency lights which, in the event of a power failure, kick over onto a battery which has a lifetime of five years. Current auxiliary light batteries burn jor only one hour. Wolff on Colleges: uStudents Trapped\ by PETER BICKERMAN Professor Robert Paul Wolff, dealing with the question of · \Who Should Run A College,'; told a convocation audience Tuesday that the liberal arts college '\ought to be a community of teachers and scholars devoted to the pursuit of education,\ and that therefore \'no one\ should run the college because \'there ·is no authority involved in education.\ Professor Wolff continued by stating that his ideal mode of education would be a \purely anarchistic community,\ having nothing to do with the awarding of degrees or the exchange of money for services. In such an environment, Wolff asserted, education would occur whenever one person feels that he has something to teach and another person feels that he has something to learn. This type of situation would leave \no place for governance, because the nature of the relationship 1s incompatible with that.\ Turning his attention to the real world, Professor Wolff emphasized that colleges presently serve several functions distinct from education. Modern universities can be regarded as being both \certifying institutions\ · {awarding degrees which are highly valued by society) and institutions which act as \employers and dispensers of services.\ Furthermore, colleges are non-profit institutions supported by private donations and/ or state funds. used in combination with the The failure affected the entire G.E. minigun made in West campus, although auxiliary Lynn; 3) make the main power supplies restored power to propulsion equipment for ths most buildings within a couple of SSN 688 class, High Speed hours. However, Fox, Davidson Nuclear-powered Submarine and Humanities remained produced at Medium Steam without lights for fourteen hours. Turbine Generator and Gear The crisis, which began 10:16 Department with initial funding p.m. on Tuesday night, forced for 1969 of $16.4 million (the Welch's Maintenance Depart- total funding for all contractors ment to run wires from the Old for this program ·was $611 County Library to Fox million in 1970 and is expected to and Davidson, and from Social be $475.5 million in 1971) 4) Sciences to Humanities to restore make motor generator for heat to the affected buildings, Firebee Drone planes used for .while auxiliary systems were hostile territory reconnaisance ·insufficient to support both training and weapons evaluatio'n;. heating and lighting systems. Misleadin·g Gazette Report Captures Schenectady Ire Since he defines American colleges as, in effect, multi- purpose organisms. Wolff believes that the power of governance should be divided among several parties. Firstly, Professor Wolff noted that society as a whole has a stake in collegiate institutions, due not only to public financial support but also derived from the fact that colleges are certifying their students to fill certain roles within society. According to Wolff, the faculty also have a valid claim to governance, as they fulfill the knowledge-transmitting role which is required for the college's continued operation. The professor, whose specialized field is philosophy, added that students have a basic claim to governance, in that proper certification is crucial to their future lives. Wolff stated that \Students are trapped [within the existing educational system] .... in that there is no alternative path . to the future world of careers and professions.\ 5) have done $100 million worth . Mr. Welch- asserted that the of research and development at cause of this week's failure was KAPL on two reactor atomic by no means the same as the plants for high endutance cause of the power problems over nuclear-powered attack aircraft vacation, which !eft the campus carriers, the E~terprise and the without electricity for three days. Nimitz (the Departmertt of \The problem then,\ he said, Defense is expected to reqUe!Jt \was a defective cable, which had $480 million for the production to be remo·Ved and then of the Nimitz in the next two replaced.\ years). To be sure, this term has not Stark noted that the elitism the been an easy one for students have toward the maintenance thus far. Many of Schenectady community is as the men, attending to the vicious a form of rascism as any electrical problems, worked other kind. Students who believe continually from Tuesday they can live outside the morning until Wednesday night. community are ''fools.;' Most of the ctew returned at Various community organizing dawn yesterday to work on snow Apparently trying to increase circulation by using inaccurate reporting and misleading headlines, on December 14, 1970, the Schenectady Gazette published an article on the Comprehensive Education program for communal living containing a number of erroneous statements and others badly quoted out of context. The main thrust of the articie, and the accompanying headline, was that the participants in the project were eight men and two women, sanctioned by thecollegeto live in sm. As soon as the article appeared, former alumni and other watchdogs of campus morality telephoned and wrote members of the faculty and administration inquiring as to the exact nature of the \commune\ (a term used repeatedly in the article but not by the Comp. Ed board or the stu·dents themselves). Many felt the campus was going out of its way to allow stUdents certain illicit freedoms. The readers of the article were not totally responsible for drawing such an unfortunately mistaken conclusion, the article having stated that some of the students would not be required to do anything, which is completely false. The administration has chosen to answer the allegations privately, and hopes the community · has forgotten the article. R. Gordon Bingam, Assistant to the President, was considering writing an explanation to the Gazette, but now feels it is not necessary. In commenting upon the governance claims of other factiqns, Professor Wolff mentioned the right of college •!mployees and private donors to have some part in decision- making, but he rigorously limited the proposed role of college administrations. Wolff More on Page 3

P'AGE 2 CONCORDIENSIS, JAN. 15, 1971 ·HAll the Presents Past'' Letters To The- Kremlin May Aid Russian Jews A Turn Toward the Future Ill view of the recent inciclents involving the politicJtl problems of Jews in Soviet Russia,Hill~~in conjunction CONCORDIENSIS offers. the following as a sample of a letter wbich may be written to ·the KremUn to express one's pei\$~)Dal discontent with the Soviet · By ALAN COHEN Changes do not come easily at Union College. In some cases of surface alterations over the past few years, a show of strength threatened confrontations of the sort one gets to read about in the l'l{ew York Times that happen at other colleges. It is the nature of change in any non-revolutionary situation that time must be spent issuing reports and discussing all aspects before action can be taken. It was fairly wasteful for me to have to be involved in a movement to rid the dormitories of parietal hours. It was all too obvious that the move toward self-determination of one's affairs is how things ought to be. There is a movement now to bring self- determination to the academic level, especially from the free school movement not especially at Union College. It was fairly wasteful for me to have · to be involved in a movement to rid the dormitories of parietal hours. It was. all too obvious that the move toward self-determination of one's affairs is how things ought to be. There is a movement now to bring self- determination to the academic level, especially from the ·free school movement not especially at Union College. There is a professor at Union who believes in changing teaching methods to help free people from authoritarian socialization. He was hired as a one year replacement for a professor who is on leave, so he will not be back next year. This professor, who we will call John, no, that's too common. How about Dennis? Dennis had been doing things which the college community should at least want to know about and perhaps understand their implications. Competition and authoritari- anism are two of the society's worst manifestations in our classrooms which perpetuate themselves and reinforce themselves in the society. Most professors deliver a limited · amount of knowledge within one subject area and test the student on how much he can recall or on how well he can phrase it. In knowing what is demanded of him, the .student denies himself . the development of his own thoughts and interpretations; he is rarely asked to relate knowledge to his personal struggles and growth. The student hesitates to let his curiosity wonder, knowing the exact material upon Which he will be tested, and stymies his creativity. Exam week is a traumatic experience which can destroy a person's aspirations if he fails to measure up to the external standards. It is not the student's fault that he cannot overcome his socialization, nor is it only the college's. Graduate schools and businessc:;:s specify that they want the students with the top marks. Alumni withhold needed funds when they don't agree with current trends or experiments that the college is trying. As well, the college's standing in the academic community motivates it to fear experimentation. Professors should .shed light on subjects whenever they can, but it is more important to help the student develop. his autonomy. Dennis would like to create \leaderless struggles\ in class. In his freedom and authority comp. ed., he tried for a time to exert extreme authority. It resulted in a backlash and \Fuck off, Dennis\ on the blackboard. Perhaps this is a better example of understanding freedom afid authority than reading and writing about it. Bringing form and content together makes for an experienee which can be en;1.0tionally recalled, not just intellectually reproduced on paper and then forgotten. It makes learning a part of one's growth. Dennis was also put on trial by the class for hi's methods, and acquitted. Grading is a traditional process in American education. Some people come to believe that the more difficult good marks are to achieve in a class, the better the professor. Dennis feels that · grades only inhibit the learning experience. He gave .the same mark to everyone m the comp. ed. class. Still, attendance was at least equal to the typical :Union class where attendance is not mandatory. A distaste for reading, a fear of being wrong, strategies based on reward and punishment and respect for non-proven authority are remnants of a child's upbringing in public schools which tend to carry on right through college unless they are stopped at some point. Dennis has had to answer to administrators for his attempt to break down the cycle. He has even been acct.JSec;i of being too friendly with students and \going down to their level.,. To support some of Dennis' goals, we can turn to Robert ltltllBi!1 Paul Wol£f who was .applauded at Tuesday's convocation. (But then again, Dolf D:rodge and WilliamK.unstlerboth received a good deal of applause.) Wolff says that in high school: \ ... the ever present imperative to do welt in an objective and measurable way is intensified, to the detriment of real education, or even of non-eaucational growth experiences.\ (R.P. Wolff, \1he College as Rat Race\) · · Wolff feels that the energies which should be used for growth are instead diverted to \useless and deadening 'college preparation'.\ Being aware that this is the situation in high schools, colleges do enroll some students who \smell right.\ But the colleges do not seem to realize that they perpetuate the ills through \graduate school preparation.\ Wolff recognizes that to have a course in Freud or Marx m~~ms to be \intellectuallyimmunized by being inoculated with small weakened dosages of the author\ and not necessarily to · ha.:ve \grown through his struggle to understand them.\ Wolff wants to stop the sacrifice of \each present ''to the future, until the presents are all past and the future an empty present.\ Changing one college will not reform society. Wolff wants to see a policy of random college admissions. Dennis would like to see Union admit some children of local workers. . Perhaps Wolff and Dennis do not agree on all relative issues, but there are many. And Wolff was applauded and Dennis will not be back next year. I have to confess that I have been struggling to Write articles which are worthy of a reply by someone who strongly disagrees - in this case, perhaps a college official or professor, who can defend the. traditional process of \all the presents past.\ political poticies: · Premier Aleksei< N. Kosygin, The Kremlin, Moscow, u~s.s.R. Sit: In the Soviet Union today, tens of thousands of Jews have applied fot exit permits to rel.lnite with the dispersed remnants of their families in >Israel. With few exceptions, their applications have been turned down time and again. Several hundred of the more audacious among t-hem, frustrated with repeated rejections, have written individual and collective open letters and appeals to you and your colleagues, to the United Nations Commission on Human Right~, to Secretary-General U Thant, to Premier Golda Meir, to world public opinion. · The burden of their appeals is simple and clear: it is impossible to live with pride and dignity as Jews in the USSR. As human beings and as Jews, they seek fulfillment and family reunion in Israel,. which they regard as their ancestral homeland. Thhty-five of them have been arrested and held incommunicado or have been tried .and jailed, for their daring persi~tence. Thes~' Jewish political prisoners, and the hundreds of their fellows, have done nothing more than rely on the Universal Declaration of Hu.man Right~, which the USSR has repeatedly endorsed, and whtch categoncally assures evecyone of the \right to leave .any country, including his own ... \ (Article 13/2). They even rely upon you, Premier Kosygin. For you yourself, in response to a question on whether · the. USSR would allow emigration of Soviet Jews in order t-o be reunited with their families in Israel, said in Paris exactly four years a:go on December 3, 1966: AS REGARDS THE REUNION OF FAMILIES, SHOULD ANYONE WANT TO BE REUNITED WITH THEIR FAMILIES, OR WANT TO LEAVE THE ·SOVIET UNION, THE.ROAD IS OPEN AND NO PROBLEM EXISTS HERE. . (Izvestia, December 5, 1966) I appeal to you: uphold international obligations and grant what you yourself regard as a just· request. Set the... prisoners free! Let those who wish go to Israel! (Signed). - Let-ter to the Editor To the EditoR In the first issue of Concordiensis for the Winter term there appeared an article about the poor health of the college radio station. A subsequent article appeared in the · Schenectady Gazette on Mon~y. January 11. I would like to take this opportunity to express thanks to Mr. Francis Outo of the college maintenance crew who,_ out of his f,!oneern for the continuation of WRUC, presented me with a check for twenty-five dollars. The gift will \be used toward the purchase of a badly needed piece of equipment used for tuning transmitters. I only wish . that there were more students who shared Mr: Schenectady Punishes Polluters Under Law Duto's concern. On that subject I might comment that it is people that WRUC needs more than money. I might also mention that a plea for letters in support of the FM station, which are needed in order to file for a frequency allocation, was answered bY only a handfti.I of students. FM will never be a reality at Union unless support can be shown for the station. Letters are still being accepted in the Student Activities . Office. by KEVIN ROBERTS by the city engineer. The city Students interested in aiding engineer may demand payment Schenectady's struggle against of the costs by the owner of the pollution can be the catalysts in . land. If he has not paid within the apprehension and conviction ten days the city engineer sends a of polluters. bill to the director of finance Who Schenectady law prohibits adds the costs to the net bill of ~~J?ing of wastes, either by the.o\Vner of the lot on which the mdivtduals or corporations, dumping occurred. If the owner exc~pt in places officially of the land does not pay the designated as dumping areas. taxes on his land it is sold at Section 32-2 of the Schenectady public auction. GOde forbids \any person to run,. Any persons who sees illegal Editor-in-Chief Peter J. Weingold drop or remain or to be thrown, dumping or conditions created · cast or deposited in or upon by previous illegal dumping are any ... plot of land ... except at such asked to record the place, kind, place or places ... d-esignated and time of the illegal dumping by ... the city, any waste, leaves, along with their name, address, brush, hay, weeds, straw, litter, and phone number and deposit wastepaper, boxes, shavings, or the complaints in the PYE any filthy or combustible or mailbox in the student activities flammable materials, rubbish office. We request your name garbage, dirt or stagnant wate; and address merely to aid us in One further comment on the state ·of operations at WRlJC: things have this tenri improved greatly over last term. The key is that more people are doing more thing~. The station can always use more help, and we are open to suggestions from any interesteq party. Mrs. Marra in the Student Activities Office can refer people to the person to see about any department at the station. {indeed, Mrs. Marra knows all). Manapqg Editor • James E. Stewart News Editor Louis S. Snitkoff Assoc. News Editor Peter Bickerman Features Editor Daniel Schochet Layout Editor Doug Wong Business Manager Lloyd Birns Asst. Business Managers DougTosh Doug Binder National Adl. Mgr. Mark Shulman Sports Editor William J. Holleran Asst. Sports Editor Mark Shugoll Editors Emeriti William Ouzer Henry G. Fein Contributing Editor Richard L. Kramer Photography Editor .Jody Saslow Asst. Photography Editors Charles Long Dave Conrey STAFF: Harris Samuels. Judy Steinbach. Michael Galer, Lcs Goldman, Joseph Achenbaum, David Conti. Greg Hamlin, Bruce Garber, Michael Hollander. George Kaplan, Robert A. Levine. Mike Meserole. Thomas Morante, Ruth Morton. Barbara McDonald, Tom Mitchell, Jay Hnbard. Len Solomon. George Rain. Marty Be1'man. Reid Russel, Gail Goodman. Mark Zubres and Michael Rosenberg. ••_.•~•-•-•u---·--~9------•-u-•--·-------~~----------=------~------~ whereby a fire hazard, substantiating the complaints. unhealthful, noxious or PYE will lodge formal dangerous condition .. .is created.'; complaints with the city. Sincerely, BOB DITTER General Manager WRUC Th~ only area presently · designated for such dumping is CLIP THIS COUPON. the Schenectady San.itary B 2 G 1 , ... Landfill on Cheltingham Ave. . u y .. ·. ·et· . . re e· I Any dumping in other areas is illegal. Section 32-6 of the code authorizes the city engineer to correct the condition caused by such illegal dumping, if the person responsible for such illegal dumping (the owner of the land), does not correct the conditions it created within five days of the notice given hirn. Section 32-7 provides for payment of the expense of correcting the illegal conditions MIKE'S Giant SUBMARINE With this COUpOJI tlithar NEBA Roa.st Beef SANDWICH OFFER EXPIRES JAN. 31, 1971 GOOD AT ALL LOCATiONS OPEN 7 DAYS A WEEK CUP THIS COUPON~l~Dl~l!I§ ,j . ,;j ~ Ill ... ~' t t~ <l j t t s ~ s t \

.. Saga Practices Exposed: -r.oNr.ORDIENSIS. .JAN. 15.1971 PAGE 3 You Are What You Eat by RAY KRISE JR The old joke about the only tWngs in life which are inevitable are \death and taxes\ is ammended at Union College by the addition of \ ... and ·Saga . Foods.\ Since all of you guys out there have had considerable experience with eating in West College, I'm sure most of you have formed opinions about the place, and really don't need me to give y()u another one. Well; I'm not about to offer any new conclU$ions, r:m just here to tell you that everything you've ever expected about the ol.d compulsory-for-freshmen food ·lS. precisely .and scandalously correct lady who's making the meal if the three cans of beans are safe to use. \No she replies. \They're spoiled, and I shouldn't use them. But I have to.\ And she does, and .some of you cats out there ate it . Example: ants are found crawling em a wall behind the serving area of the first line .. The wall is sprayed with a bug-killer, and the ants are instantly poisoned and die. Unfortunately, just a bit beyond where the wall was sprayed, sit two trays of .glasses of orange juice, waiting to be put out for brC~tkfast. Some of the bug-killer drifted into the jUice. Some of you drank it. Example; a student worker is maki:qg hamburgers .for lunch. - He drops some rneat on the floor .. He picks it up and puts it to the side of the grill. A few minutes later a.nother cook takes over, and cooks the hamburger. Somebody ate it. AU of · thls stuff, my sources inform me, happened last week, gang. That gives \one pause to Wonder. We can leave aside such thlngs as never having fresh , dessert put out until all the stale stuff from the night before is used up; hassles with the lady at the door over whether it's before nine o'clock and you can still eat breakfast, or not; selecting headwaiters w:ho seem to be majoring in Nazism; insisting on sticking a cruddy brown piece of lettuce under every salad; and never letting you know that \chocolate drink\ isn't milk at all - those are all little things, tWngs which are unpleasant but Example: one student who works in the kitchen opens four cans of beans to be used in the preparation of . soJiie dish f~r 1 unch. In three· of the four cans 1s flo~tting all this unhealthy- looking crud. The kid asks the Plans Anno·unced For Bookstore· Face-Lifting by MARC LUST often ord.er fifty books for the Mrs. Kitty Frankel, Manager students pre-registered for a of the Campus Bookstore, has course, only to find that tWrty announced plans to institute- students- actually enroll in the several .,::hanges in bookstore course. In addition, instructors policy in the imiliediate future. often order a title whlch is Mrs. Frankel, in an interview plentiful in the stockroom, but with Concordiensis earlier this due to unfavorable cQnditions, week said that the face-lifting neither the bookstore staff nor would result in the formation of the faculty knows about it. The a ••book center\ which will carry faculty and the • bookstore more books of interest to management must work students and faculty members in cooperatively toward ordering terms of extracurricular reading. books if tWs problem is to be Currently in the process of. alleviated, Mrs. Frankel said. straightening out and cleaning up After the current stock is the present stock of books, Mrs. organized, she hopes to add Frankel hop~s to remove. much seperate Afro, Ecology, Pisse-nt; of the old selection of books Mystery, and Science Fiction occupying vaiuable shelf space. sections. Mrs. Frankel hopes that \These books will be replaced witWn the next year and a half, by a more up-to-date and the store will be able to move to indepth collection of books, • a roomier location, possibly in other than required texts,\ sbe the new student center planned. said. The philosophy beWncJ. tWs for .Carnegie Hall. TWs would proposal is that it will encourage afford the bookstore adequate faculty and students to ••browse\ room to ~tdd paperback and in the bookstore, and to look for hardcover sections as well as a enjoyable reading material in a medical section and a cWldren's place where they know they can section. • find it. Another proposal calls for the_ A problem confronting Mrs. initiation of a \Used Book\ Frankel is getting rid of much of policy whlch would help combat an over~abundant stock of non- the, ~sing cost of books. Under reading items such as beer mu~s such a program, Union students and pi~ure post cards.- There 1s could sen· their ilsed books to the no reason to carry twen,ty bookstore for 30-50% of the different types of mugs, y.rhich. original cost, depenc:Ung upon the only occupy valuable space m the. co.ndition Qf the books. badly cramped stockroom. Many Similarly, .students could buy books which exist in large used books at reduced prices. - quantities in the stockroom are Mrs. Frankel, who came to now obsolete.. teachers having Union highly recommended after either changed texts, or acquired having heen successful with more recent editions .and · similar programs at Loyola publishers will only accept up to College and Harvard University, 20% of an order on return. welcomes any suggestions from Another reason for the students or faculty which would accumulation of large quantiti~s help improve the bookstore. . of books is that professors will , ''It is only if we all work Chaplain David Byers of Oberlin College wiU speak on the · C(}oed Dormitories at Oberlin, Slltlday, January 17; at 8:30 p.m • in the Fox Lounge. Byers wiD describe Oberlin's housing arrangements and comment on some of the social and ethical issues related to a decision to have co-ed dorms. . BLITHE:R _- :_-: .. ' . - ' ~ ' ·. together that we will have the unique bookstore that we .are all striving for,\ she added. which do not pose actual threats to your health. The three examples I give, however, are outrageous to Union College as a whole, and to the freshman class in particular. There have already been freshmen whose doctors have asked that they be granted an exemption from the compulsory meal-ticket plan, as the .fuod at Saga was banning them - too much grease. Little did the doctors know. Monopolies are allegedly forbidden by law, because people know what happens when they can get a good or service at only one place ~ they get screwed. rm sure we all recognize the necessity of having a cafeteria on campus; but there is absolutely no reason in Heaven or Earth why, simply because the school has to be able to guarantee a minimum income for Saga Foods by indenturing the freshman class to the cafeteria, that the operation cannot be run in such a manner that people would actually want to eat there, if God had given them free will. I realize that one can walk into some of the best restallfants in the world and fmd health prac.iices equal to, or worse than, those of Saga Foods. But one also has the option_ of eating or not eating in those places. West College has already caused too many pimples, and too many sleepless nights from having a feeling like a big cotton cork in your stomach. Let's not see it kill , anybody. All power to the:: Board of Health. More On Wolff From Pagel emphasized that the administration is not \an independent locus of legitimate authorityf' rather \it ought to be the instrument, the servant of the other groups.\ In concluding hls talk, Professor Wolff reiterated several major points; perhaps foremost among these was his belief that non-authoritative modes of education should be encouraged, so that colleges can concern themselves exclusively to the furthering of knowledge as a good thing in itself, ra~her than as a means to an end. ' . The Social Committee presents · Cannonball Adderly, newly named Playboy Hall of Fame musician, in cor.cert tomorrow, January 16, at 8:30 in Memorial ChapeL Tickeis are $3.50 at the door. Senators Discuss Drug, Gym Issues by HOWARD STONE perennial pro01em -ot snow The Student Senate, held its falling off the roofs of buildings first session Tuesday night, in a. around campus. In addition, meeting distingushed primarily Spencer reported that he had by a lack of action. been assured that the problem of The meeting was called to black-outs this fall was fully order by student body president under control and that there Walter Spencer at 7 p.m., and would not be any more. the first order of business, the However, two hours later, a roll call, set the. to~e of the· rest power failure left the campus and of the session. Of the 45 Senate Spencer in the dark. members, 20 representatives were The mythical student center absent. will become a reality next fall, as Spencer proceeded to list the space becomes available in events that have occurred on Carnegie Hall, after the Math campus since the end of the fall and Engineering departments term. A drug committee with move to their new quarters. student and faculty members, has Propsals for an automated snack been .formed to investigate the bar-coffeehouse, ping pong and drug problem here and to come pool tables, all night lounge- up with some constructive study areas and acoustically- proposals concerning methods of sound jam rooms were heard. dealing with it. Keeping the gym Other suggestions are requested. open at night, the upcoming class Finally, there was some representative elections, and the discussion of the several forthcoming blood drive proposals for revision of the (January 26-27) were also calendar. A . memo from mentioned. In addition, the President Martin concerning the results of the foreign language specifics of the various proposals poll are not yet complete, will be sent out to students thls Spencer said. week, and discussion was In other matters, it was postponed until an informal pool mentioned that because the loan of student opinion could be obtained to buy the taken. Mountebanks' new light board was signed for by the college does not mean that the college is, in fact, willing to take the responsibility for its repayment. The question of just where the money would come from, particularly irt view of the Tax Committee policy of not making capital purchases, was raisc::d, out there was no further discussion of the issue, · Spencer revealed that his conversations with the maintenance staff indicated that little could be done about the The President's thlrd QED session will be held Monday, January 18, at 7:30 P.M. in Hale House Student Lounge. The topic will be \The College Center.\ More Division ,I Ftom Page 1 Ed., at least in pnnciple. • Finally, there wa!l much support for an increase in the permissible scope of pass-fail courses. A strong supporter of such a change asserted the view that grading may be destructive of the true purposes of education. One tentative proposal, upon which no vote was taken, involved adoption of the plan used at the State University at Albahy, where the freshmen and sophomores are all marked on .a pass-fail basis. It should be repeated, however, that no specific motions were presented at the meeting. HAVE TROUBLE FACING THESE COLD MORNINGS? set your radio alarm for 640kc and a little warm personality ·All Gatesmen who were not at the winter organizational meeting <l January 12 are cordially required to stop by the Admissions Office' before Wednesday; January 20 to sign up for tour times. Those not ll signing up win be dropped from the organization. THE FALL OF THE HOUSE OF USHER PHIL ROBINSON AND THE MORNiNG SHOW EVERY MORNING;MONDAY THRU FRIDAY FROM 7 TO 9 AM ON WRUC PRESENTED BY CRIBARI WINE OF CALIFORNIA ---..

PAGE 4 CONCORDIENSIS, JAN. 15, 1971 Concordy Sports Jaszczak Cuffy Le~ Thincl.ads In Opener The Union track team inaugurated its indoor season last Friday night, traveling to Dartmouth to compete in the Easte.rn Track and Field Championships. A conting~nt ()f four runners and two field men made the. trip for the Gamet. he neared the bar. The mile relay team, comprised of Jaszczak, Steve Wood, Gred Hamlin, and Titn McCabe, entered the meet with high hopes. However, the quartet didn't run until 12:00 midnight and consequently .their perfonnance was way below par. Cagers Top Kings · Point; Have Won Nine Straight All-American Rick Jaszczak, bothered most of last year by a pulled hamstring, and frosh long- jumper Jerry Cuffy, were the two outstanding performers in the competition. Jaszczak copped a third in the . 600 yard event, clo·cking a 1:13.8 time. Although the junior was the defending champion in his specialty, he was somehow put into a slow section, which he won easily. The eventual winner of the fast heat bettered the Gamet speedsters time by less than a second, despite the aid of the stiffer competition. Cuffy, who had only been jumping for the week before the Dartmouth meet, surprised everybody with his fine performance as he leaped 21' 7\ good for a fifth place. Cuffy might well soar 23' before the season ends. High jumper Mike Rich also garnered a fifth place. His 6'~ 2\ jump, though, was far below the height he had previously cleared in practice. Rich's relatively poor showing was caused by the slipperiness of ··the approach to the jumping pit, which made the junior lose his footing each time Swim Rally Tops Harpur by GEORGE BAIN Not bad for a week of practice. Fielding but nine swimmers and one diver, the Union swimming team defeated a fifteen man squad at Harpur last Saturdav, 66-4.,, for their tenth victory -in a row over SUNY Binghamton. The Gamet. spotted Harpur a seven point lead by ·not even entering in the opening medley relay but then roared back, taking firsts in nine of the last twelve events. Rei iable co-captain BuTt Yankiver took first in the 1000 yard freestyle, 200 yard backstroke. and anchored the freestyle relay team to lead Union to its first win of the season. The relay team's time of 3:32.8 missed the Harpur pool record by one second, and Dave Seward's winning time of :23.5 in the 50 yard freestyle tied the pool record. The other co-captain, Mike Horwath, finished first in the 200 and 500 yard freestyle events for part of an impressive day's work. Steve Hill and Bruce Goldberg swept the butterfly, and Alex Bodenstab and Horwath finished 1-2 in the breaststroke. Tom Klinkow completed the third Garnet sweep, finishing second to Yankiver in the 1000 freestyle, and freshman Mark Foster clinched the meet for Union in the next-to-last event, winning the 3 meter diving with 85.30 points. The depthless Garnet swimmers put their 1-1 record on the line yesterday afternoon at Norwich. Although Union had not lost to the Cadets in six previous outings, the Dutchmen were looking for more outstanding individual efforts in hopes of scoring their second win. The cindermen's next meet will be a week from 1'hursday, when the Garnet host Mohawk Valley Community College in a 7:30 P.M. meet. by MARK SHUGOLL The Union basketball team broke a six-year losing jinx to Kings Point on Wednesday evening, edging the Merchant Marines 66-59 on the road. The win was the Gamet's ninth in a row after a season-opening loss to Harpur. Tom Bacher, Mike Doyle, and Frosh Hoop Beats Siena But Falls To. RPI .In Upset by MARTY BERMAN A heavy schedule caught up with the Frosh hoop squad Wednesday night in Troy, as the Engineers of RPI were able to snap Union's five-game winning streak, 63-59. A far from capacity crowd of 15 boisterous spectators witnessed the startling upset. Playing their fourth game in six nights, the flatfooted Dutchmen were unable to keep up with the Engineers, who pulled away in the last minutes behind the foul-shooting of Tom Gorman. Gorman led all scorers with 17 points. The Gamet, who led at the half 31-29 and 48-41 with 6:52 to play, were paced by Herb Reichenbach, Stan O'Brien, and Al Westbrook with 12 points each. Overall, however, Union hit on only 39 percent of their floor shots and sank only 55 percent of their free throws. February I 0 is the scheduled \grudge\ match with the Engineers, in the Memorial Field House. Tuesday evening told a different story. Playing after a three-day rest and mentally \up\ for favored Siena, the yearlings grabbed their fifth wm m succession. Tom Combs and Westbrook had 22 and 19 markers, respectively, on the strength of hot shooting hands from the outside. Reichenbach pulled down 16 rebounds and muscled in 11 points, going inside on Siena's 6' 10\ center Ric Stappen:bach. The yearlings trailed by six at halftime but used a tight man-to- man full court press to run Siena off the court m tne second stanza. Westbrook hit for 14 of his total in the second half. Next Wednesday night the frosh take the court at Utica College against the Pioneer yearlings, while the next home game for the Dutchmen is January 23 against Wesleyan. Tip-off time for that contest is 6:15p.m. Matmen Set For RPI Tilt The undefeated Dutchmen wrestling team has the weekend off to prepare for arch-rival R.P.I. The match will be held at the Engineers' gym in Troy on Tuesday afternoon. The grapplers moved past Harpur last Saturday to score a 22-I 2 victory after falling behind 12-ll. The Garnet also won' the Albany State quadrangular meet over the Christmas vacation, downing Williams, Dartmouth, and host Albany State. -~~··;5 TAT--E~·· J'se..t·u~.aecrAo · '. ~ . '- . JAZZ UNION WORKSHOP The UNION COLLEGE JAZZ WORKSHOP Will play in the Rathskellar Friday, 9:30 P.M. This concert will augment the Social Committee's Cannonball Adderly workshop and concert for this winter's first JAZZ WEEKEND. BE THERE ...... . Featured wil1 be: GREG CHESSON, electric piano MATT FINLEY, fluglehorn & trumpet JEFF AVRIN, electric bass BOB~HIGGONS, percussion JAZZ WEEKEND Jim Tedisco did most of the damage again in handing the Mariners their seventh loss in eleven outings. Bacher poured in 19 points while Doyle added 17 points and 19 rebounds, and Tedisco _had 16 points and six assists. Geoff Walker, star of Saturday night's win over Hobart, chipped in with sile points, as did Dave Shames, while Rich 6o1dberg scored two points to round out the Uniqn offense. The Garnet jumped off to an eight-point lead and led by eleven a:t the half in a game in which FILM HAPS Presents \PETULIA\ Starring, Julie Christie and George c. Scott With Richard Chamberlain , Directed by Richard Lester (Director of the Beatles Films) SAT. Jan.16 7:00, 9:00, 11:00 SUN. Jan.17 SS016 $1.00 STA ., SCHENECTADY NOW PLA:viNG HERE THE ULTIMATE EXPERIENCE . FOR EVE.RYONE! . \DISNEY'S GREAT PIONEERINIJVENTURE IS THE SEASON'S. HIT REVIVAl/\ IN•••\\' \AN INCREDIBLY REVOLUTIONARY FILM ••• THE MIND CAN RUN RIOT!\ TM«YU ToOker \A WILD, PSYCHEDELIC'DISPlAV, .. REALLY TURNS YOU ON I\ Ponsburgh rrm '}I MUlTI-MEDIA MASTERPIECE!\ Leo< \A TOTAL EXPERIENCE IN SIGHT, SOUND AND COLOR ••• MAKE FANTASIA A MUST!\ Boc Sa1m2gg1, Group W Network thc;ly never trailed. Kipgs Pomt did manage to .pull even at 5f .... all with just under seven minutes t0 play, but the Dutchmen held on for the win. ' Tedisco played the entire secon<l half with four personal fouls, but was helped out by a . tough defensive performance by Shames. Union does not see action again until next Wednesday, when the hoQpsters travel to Utica College. The cagers make their next home start the following Saturday, January 23, with a big game against Wesleyan. The Cardinals are 4-3 thus far but are ranked as the number eight small college team in New England. SPECIAL GUEST ARTIST Sat. Jan. 30 at 7:30 & 11:30 p.m. PAlACE Theatre ' Tickets $5.50 & $6.50 ON SALE NOW at ALBANY- Armadillo, Van· Curlers • SCOTIA- Rip11;.Apothccary TfiOY .... The Musi' Shack Drome Suu·nd- TROY ' SCH. Crystal Mansion-lATHAM, &MOHAWk MALL Information (51 I) 434-3345 CLEARANCE SALE • SPORT SHIRTS • OUTERWEAR / SUITS • • RAINCOATS • SPORT COATS • SWEATERS • SLACKS • DUNGAREE-- (Regular & Bells) 20% to '50% OFF DAVE'S Men\s Wear- 'Boys 1 Wear TELfrriwNE Fi\ 4·9609 453 STATE STREET

t'omt at 51-all nutes ta held: on ,. entire personal by a. by action to make rt the 23, against are 4-3 as the team .... ~ . . . . . . . . '• . Founded at Union. College 1877 VOLUME 100, NUMBER 20 SCHENECTADY, NEW YORK, JANUARY 19, 1971 Price Twenty Cents Faculty Council Meeting: New Courses, New Debate by PETER BICK:ERMAN engineering course in x-ray The Facu1ty Council, meeting diffraction and an industrial Monday afternoon for the first administration course de!lling time during the winter semester, with quality systems approved the addition of several management. In addition, a new courses to the college program ' of study involving curriculum, and then proceeded physiological aspects of to _di~cuss possi?le changes in the psychology was adopted, along eXIsting academic structure. .. .' . with a psychology course in child The ap~roved courses, ~htch study. After brief discussion, the were submttte? to the Council _by Council also gave credit to a the _Gurncul~H Affatrs class dealing with the Committee, mclude an handicapped child, which will be Byers Tells Students Of Oberlin's Coed Dorms by MARC LUST PRESIDENT MARTIN Speaking in Fox Lounge Sunday Night before about forty students, Chaplain David Byers of Oberlin College discussed the humanizing possibilities of co- educational living at Oberlin and other colleges in the country. He also discussed what it would entail to set up a similar {lrogram at Union, which may be necessary in the near future, due to lack of sufficient dormitory space. Chaplain Byers described co- educational housing at Oberlin as \not terribly radical, limited and rather. latecoming.'' He described co-educational housing as a part of the basic residential living philosophy of colleges.· He turned to excerpts from memos compiled by Deans at Oberlin College on residential housing to substantiate his argument. (photo by Steve Ente) College Center Fact F·or::·N·ext-: w·inter~ Term President Martin estimated last night that the new College Center in Carnegie Hall will be able to start operations next winter term. The President discussed plans for the new College Center with about twenty-five students, in the Hale House Student Lounge during the first Q.E.D. session of the Winter Term. He introduced several aspects of the new Center for discussion in order to learn just what facilities students want tb have there, Martin prefers the term College Center to Student Center because it will be for the use of the whole college community. The College has $ll5,000 to spend on the Center, $25,000 of which must be put toward the construction of a lounge since it was granted to the College for that purpose. Alo·ng with the lounge, there is a good p0ssibility that the bookstore will be moved over to Carnegie. That way it will be possible to have room for a wide selection of books in one area, and keep all the other items now sold in the bookstore in another room. The first topic of discussion was what type ·of eating facilities will be installed in the new Centet'. With Union's enrollment increasing by one hundred every year for the next few years, Martin cited the need for more food services on campus in the future. Students at the meeting preferred the idea of vending machines to the idea of another cafeteria or Rathskeller type of operation. Vending machines would be cheaper as there would · be no labor costs involved, and also there is a possibility that they could be used 24 }lours a day,. an idea which .is hot feasible if someone is there preparing and serving the food. The next topic of discussion was a rev1s10n of the mail delivery service at Union. All student mailboxes would be in Carnegie instead of being in the vaious dorms as they are now. The cost of this change is undetermined but i1 is not expected to be more than a few , thousand dollars. Many -of those present . favored this idea; mail would be delivered earlier than it is now in some dorms. Also, under this plan off-campus students could have campus mailboxes, enabling them to receive the material distributed to the rest of the students. On the other hand, going to Carnegie to get mail would be an inconvenience to some students. Continued on Page 3 Though Oberlin' College was the country's first co-ed co11ege some 138 years ago, it was not unt_il the last couple of years that Oberlin in fact became \co- educational.\ Byers said that up until two years ago at Oberlin, members of the opposite sex were allowed but 3 Y2 visiting hours in dorms on Sundays, \both parties had to have both feet on the floor at all times, and the door had to be ajar at least the width of a wastebasket.\ Byers concluded that \progress is a slow and relative process.\ Spencer's ustate of Union\ States Status Isn't Static by PATTY SIPE Student Body President Walter Spencer, featured on \WRUC Presents\ last Thursday evening,presented his analysis of the major problems to be faced by the next president. According to Spencer. these problems are: Implementing the governance report, which is to cpme out in February; the continuing drug problem; and working out alumni relations to improve present financial problems; . Spencer stated that many of the problems which arise under the present system of college governance are a result of a fusion of roles -roles of the faculty, administration, and student. Another major pwblem is simply a lack of information about the proper channels to use in dealing with a particular problem. The student body president considers the governance report to be one of his major achievements during his involvement with student government at Union, and he hopes that his main failure (to bring new faces into student government) will be remedied in the upcoming class elections. . When asked how he would distribute the power among the students, faculty and administration were he to create a college, Spencer replied that he would have a college senate, composed mainly of faculty, quite a few students, and a few administrators to consider academic problems. Non-academic problems would be handled by a separate committee, with fewer faculty, more students, and more administrators. Spencer emphasized two major points in his discussion of the drug problem at Union. First, he said that the rumor that there are narcotics agents on campus is false. Uniop. College neither requests nor sanctions narcotics agents on campus, and it has never given students' names to officials because of involvement with drugs. All reports to the counseling service and other services of the College are kept in strict confidence. Secondly, he stressed the fact that students must realize t~at a drug pro.bletn does exist at Union. There has reportedly been an increast of 70% (Winter term, 1970, compared to Fall, 1970) in the C vntinued 011 Page 2 These Deans found that the dominant influence on the education of students in college is peer groups, with professors and books being only secondary influences. It is through peer groups that one's ideas are challenged and rechallenged, changed and rechanged. Students are pushed rather than pacified. Individuals confide emotional feelings and opinions in one another. Each person is judged as an \individual being.\ This, Byers said, \is the hope of an enlightened residential college.\ Byers stated that the failure of many educational institutions is their failure to perceive the students' total education. The students' personality and intellect must not be seen as individual diffuse factors, but as intertwined. Co-educational housing, Byers said, can be thought of as an improvement over separate residential housing since it helps to further increase the students' development as an individual being. Chaplain Byers next related the rationale . for co-educational housing as formulated by the Deans of Oberlin College in 1969. It was observed that Oberlin students: (I) were socially inept; (2) had heterosexual relationships which entailed either a neutral sexuality and the subordination of a woman's womanhood \and all that implies,\ or a totally enveloping relationship, where members were totally dependent on one another physically and felt the need to intertwine both in private and in public, ( 3) confused in regard to the question of sex vs. love because they didn't know the opposite sex well enough, (4) didn't know one another psychologically since they were not able to meet in natural situations, (5) in need of help in defining peer relationships, and (6) did not know one another in non~dating ways. It was believed at Oberlin that through co-educational housing interactions between men and Continued on Page 2 held off campus and which will be open to graduate students only. Professor Carl Niemeyer of the English Department presented an emergency proposal on behalf of Division l and the professors concerned which dealt with two junior-year projects, presently being offered. The professors in question desire that their courses be graded on a pass/fail basis. Opponents of such a plan argued that this would be a profound departure from the rule that Comprehensive Education subjects cannot be evaluated using pass/fail. The Coundl eventually decided to refer this proposal to the Divisions for further discussion. Political Science Professor Robert Sharlet suggested that the Faculty Council reconsider its policy toward class bells, which have not been operating since last Spring. While Professor Sharlet stated that this was \not a matter of intense concern.\ he did say that the bells served as a \technical convenience.\ Seven\! others, however, defended the \silent\ policy as an educational aid. Finally, it was resolved by the Council members that some consideration be given to the possible activation of outdoor bells which could coincide with class changes. The latter part of the Council meeting was devoted to a lengthy discussion of a subject described by the agenda as \long-range program planning.\ President Harold C. Martin. who chaired the proceedings, commented regarding the rapid proliferation of what he called \lateral disciplines\ ( interdjsci p li nary majors). An example of this new type of major program at Union, as cited by the President, is the major now being offered in Comparative Communist Studies. President Martin believes that \the construction of majors is probably going to have to be more topic-oriented\ in future years, and he emphasized his desire that the College seek Continued on Page 2 G.E. Grant For G.E. Research Union has received a one-year $24,000 grant from the Large Steam Turbine De.partment of the General Electric Company for continuing research on the fatigue strength of Ct-Mo-V low alloy steel. The research will be conducted by Dr. Raymond Eisenstadt, professor. of mechanical engineering and departmental ~assistants Jonathan Wright, John Stalker, Krishnamurthi Rajan, all graduate students. and S. Nicholas Lezzi, a junior. electrical engineering major. .,. Part of a program sponsored by GE to generate desigh data for large steam turbine materials, Dr. Eisenstadt and his assistants will be subjecting the metal to various stress levels at elevated temperatures to measure its resistance to cracking.

. 'I ·'' '' PAGE 2 CONCORDIENSIS, JAN. 19, 1971 Managing Editor James E. Stewart Editor·in·Chief Peter J. Weingpld Business Manager Lloyd Birns News Editor Louis S. Snitkofl '· Pu~li•hcd I uc;days and 1-rid;•y• durin~ the 'chnol year hy the ;tudcnt ho<ly of. IJmnn C'nllege. Schenectady. ~- Y .. Nati<mal 1\dvcrllsmtt Kcprc;cntativc. National l·.ducatiOnitl Ad\'crtlsmg Scrvtcc. Inc., ( 'ullt;gc l,uhli:-.hcr~ 'Rcpresernuti.,.c. 360 l.cxm!!lnn 1\vc .• \'· Y.C. l:dlturml_ office. Old <iym. Uniun College, l'ublicatmn Olllcc. I he World Publiciotlnn;, 771 State SlfCCI.. Schcncctad}. N.Y. 123()7, 346· 2JSO. l.ntt:rcd m lhc Schcnl..~tady po't olhcc a~ Second Cia~\ Mail Matter, Suh!-.cnptwn 20 cent~ u cupy. $11 a year ddivcrcd any\-hL·n; m lh!.!' tJmtcd St~tc~. Radical Fringe It is very easy to dismiss the alleged coaches' edict concerning clean-shaven athletes as a Mickey Mouse issue of little importan~. However. this totalitarian whim of the coaches to recreate students in their own ideal is the antithesis of every aim a liberal arts college should hold. Students are attracted to Union because of the academic intimacy of the institution; only in a small college can a person receive individual assistance. The coaches\ apparent banning of beards and long hair is an attempt to standardize the appearance, and consequently the attitude, of the athletes .. The army knows the importance of standardized appearance to quash individual action; obviously this has · not escaped the attention, of our physical education department. It is important to note the distinction between coUege athletes aiming for a professional sports career and students who also play basketball. The members of the Union team are students who are matriculating in this college with the hopes of attaining an education; any capricious appearance code on the part of the physical education department undercuts that education. by GARY LEIDERMAN It recently came to my attention that one cannot participate on a Union team if he sports a beard (or moustache or \improperly\ long hair.) Investigating further, I discovered that \George Jock- strap\ ancJ several Union students like him are not participating for that reason a:loile, which means that we may not have our best men, athletically (and otherwise), on our sports teams. This is important now in light of the enormous ··amount of publicity our sensational basketball team is cap~rble of receiving if it continues to win. Determined to change this standard or at least discover a rationale for it, I sauntered up to the gym last weekend and asked to see the athletic director, George Flood; but because Mr., Flood was away, I had to settle for Coach Gary Walters (basketball). He sat at his desk, hard at · work, his dark-rimmed glasses firmly in place, his firm jaw set, hair neatly in place with a little dab of something-or-other {there isn't enough to be mussed' anyway), sidebum~ trimmed at mid-ear, with the button-down white shirt and tie that is cUstomary of Princeton grads. I excused myself and said I'd like to ask him a question. l-ie agreed. I asked: \Is it true that one cannot play on a team if he has a beard?\ \Yes it is.\ \Why is that?'' I cannot quote his reply verbatim, but I remember Mr; Walters mentioning so-called \certain standards· that must be adhered to;\ Well, I didn't want to be sidetracked, so I said: \But that doesn't answer my question. Why are beards forbidden? I feel that this is discriminatory: · ·I can quote ~he coaches reply to t!lat: \lCs too bad. Take a walk.\ His thinking was clarified for me by a certain member of the freshmen basketball squad. As he explained, Coach Walters is extremely dedicated to his work. Furthermore, one .has three ways to go on a team ~ the right way, Further F acuity From Pag,e 1 modes of viable structural innovation. This topic of change m academic structure evoked a great variety of opinions from those present. Professor Niemeyer in stating the case for the wrong way, and the cQac!l's w~:~:y. If one wants to play on a team, he has standards fo live by and sacrifices to make- he can't drink, 'smoke,. stay up late, etc. Fine! But beards? the coach's view is that if you want to grow a beard or long hair, do it; but that means you don't want 'to play on my team. Make the sacrifice or we don't want .you - an \either- or\ situation. Members ·Of this year's football team were told: \Either you are · football pll.l.yers or nature people, and never .the twain shall me~t; If . you are nature people, you're not football players.\ Do you realize, fellow Union students, that if my name were Jim Tedisco, I'd . have three alternatives: I. Shave off my beard .and play (No way); 2. Leave ft on and be bounced off the team for insubordination (or would they call it :'\lack of hustle\ for public relations?) 3. Transfer to a school with coaches tha,t look for great hustle and ability (which Tedisco ,., possesses in abundance) in a player and ign0re his appearance. I do wear a oeard; beards ate acceptable in Union's culture {if not elsewhere). Fortunately, I am not Jim Tedisco (and he· isn't I-eapin' Leiderman), so our great basketball team will continue to win games as Tedisco continues' to star. But just what W()Uid happen if Tedisco decided to grow a beard'? Think about it. As I see it, our athletic department believes as follows: \People with beards do not want to play ball; they are not team men.\· Added Coed Discussion the abolition of academic reqUirements, noted that such a trend is becoming \part of the pattern of American education.\ He cautioned against any tendency toward excess structural rigidity in the formation of new programs. Several other participants expressed themselves as opposed to a total abolition of required courses; some cited evidence This is as true as the .statement, ''All students are commies:\ Unfortunately, many people believe that one, too. From PaK•' I housing, it was found, causes deep and lasting relationships with members of the opposite sex. It was also fo.und that sexual attraction often gave way to common interests, values, and opinions. which·indicates that students are Byers concluded that though conservative in the curricular co-educational housing, like any sphere, and do not utilize ·such freedom, is kind of scary at alternatives as the thematic times, its goals are sound and major program. Dean James · indeed necessary to the Palmer asserted that the bulk of development of the student as a students in Center I 1 would not more complete, individual being. be interested in pt.Jrsuing lateral DIAMANTE'S Enjoy Our Fin• Home Cooked lrolion Food· in Ou• C6mfortoble Dining RQ6m women would cause the formation of Iaborities of human relationships and would help to eliminate the six factors which characterized Oberlin students and many other college students in general. It was believed that social concerns would be humanized and personalized through \heterosexual interaction.\ Letter to the Editor .· ·(interdisciplinary) programs because of their predominant goal of reaching graduate or professional school. · ' Opp. Th• Brown•ll Gate on ~ott Street. In response to a question ot whether co-ed floors would he more desirous than the system of having every other floor co-ed. He said that the plusses of co-ed housing don't depend on that kind of proximity and that there is some advantage to having some degree of privacy. Citing reports on co- educational housing at Stanford University, Byers pointed out that co-ed housing a voids the over-idealization of the opposite sex and possibly causes a profound modification and strengthening of marriage. The more natural interaction and coexistence caused by co-t:d Although I don't ordinarily read your newsp~per very carefully, my attention was called to an article in your last issue concerning a \misleading report\ in the December 14, 1970, Schenectady Gazette. I have since reread my Gazette article on the Union commune (yes, commune: why are you reluctant to call something by its nam~?) and am afraid I must beg to differ with the criticisms levelled against me ~rld my newspaper by your reporter and indeed by the members of the commune itself. To my knowledge there are no \erroneous statements\ in the artide. More On Spencer ... From Pa:;e I number of incompletes given. supposedly as a result of drug problems. He urged students to recognize the fact that sonic students have been faced with serious problems - both academic and otherwise - as a result of involvement with drugs. Spencer brought up the point that any increase in government aid to private colleges cannot be allowed to cause a reduction in their autonomy. He attributed part of the problem as it rdates to Union to the fact .that over half of Union's alumni. graduated in the Class of 1959 or later, meaning that they are young men who have limited incomes. He foresees a possible inc:rease in alumni support as th~se men grow older. Also, a decrease in alumni support has occurred recently for various reasons, among which are campus disruptions and coeducation. He concluded that although we may han: difficulties for the next few years, Union is basically a financially sound school. Spencer predicted that there will be co-ed housing at Union next year. The form that it will take is uncertain. Possibilities ate co-ed dorms by floor, wing, or roo·m. in any of the dormitories specifically mentioned were Fox. West. and Richmond. He said that he felt students were not given enough say in curricula changes, and that if the suggestions proposed m the governance report were implemented, · this situation could be remedied. Spencer's interview was the first of the series \WRUC presents\. This week, the show will feature Dean Malloy. ·If you infer from my comments that •\the main thrust of the article, .and the accompanying headline, was that the participants in the project were eight men and two women, sanctioned by the college to live in sin,\ you are telling more about your own consciences than about my article. , When I asked Mr. Bingham whether this \experiment\ was being referred to as a \commune he explicitly answered, \No.\ I asked him why and whether by definition this wasn't in fact a commune. He answered that he guessed it was. In youP' own lead paragraph you refer to tht:: project as ''a program for communal living.\ In my article I said. in the conditonal subjunctive, that· some students \may not have to do anything,\ but I also said, in the same tense, that \some may write papers\ and \some may have examinations.\ These are . the facts as told to me by Mr. Bingham. In addition, I find it humorously ironic that a reporter for Concordiensis should accuse the Gazette of \apparently trying to increase circulation by using inaccurate reporting and misleading headlines.\ May I suggest that you reprint my article in your paper and let the unbiased Union College community make up its own mind? Ultimately, I'm sure, they will find my article both informative and factually correct. Ultimately, I'm afraid, the name of your game is paranoia. Humbly yours, BRUCE H. HUSTEN Schenectady Gazette Others, however, argued that a broadening of options would be of great aid to many students. Open Doily I 0 to A.M. Sundays 5 P.M. to I A.M. THE COFFEEHOUSE PRESENTS .\RAT\ guitarist, banjoist, singer Friday, Jan. 22 8:30 p.m. Nott Memorial • Coffee and Chaos, plus Introducing for the first time DOUGHNUTS All For Just $1.00 WRUC PRESENTS A SPECIAL SHOW ON \THE POSSIBILITIES OF FM AT. UNION\ TONIGHT AT 9 PM ON .. WRUC BROUGHT TO YOU BY CRIBARI WINE MAKE YOUR PARTY Something Special with Music By . THE STAR SPANGLED BAND CALL 377-4651 Rick DeForest

s on a ve·by can't a that. or are· et If. not were .and need of - with tie isco .,., a ate {if am to to pie f} '* ·A Quiet Explanation Of An, Author's Poetic License CONCORDIENSIS, JAN. 19, 1971 PAGE 3 Coffeehouse Features\Rat\ Pie·d Piper of Pied Pipers by M. PAUL AND'REWS dollar, with coffee and d'oughnuts provided free. by RAY KRISE JR I dislike ·writing on the same spedfic topic more than once ever, let alone twjce in a raw. Howev.er, after the column on Saga Foods appeared last Friday, two very important things happened ~ the people of Saga; after several conferences, complained· that they feared the students· (and- their parents and the Administrati-on) mis- understood the general thrust of the column; and, more important, I discovered that one of the persons I used as a source for information on Saga had eh:mged his story. To cover this last point first: in the column_ of January 15, I cited three . examp'les af incidents questionable to the health of< the students · who eat in West College. The first example --- and this was the one that bugged me the most and forced me to apply the description \scandalous\ to the Saga operation ~ was where a student worker opened four cans of beans, found strange stuff floating in the top of three of the cans, asked one of the ladies who work in the kitchtm if the beans were safe to use, and she said they weren't, but that she had to use them. Now, let me say this as loud as possible: this story was NOT TRUE, repeat, NOT TRUE. The kid I relied upon l now says that, while the beans did not look right- to him, nobody ever said they wete spoiled, and Harold Richardson, the manager of Saga at, Union, declares Saga has never used spoiled beans, and I believe him because he is an honest man - a point I'll return to in a bit. By way of further explanation: every journalist, from time to time, finds it either necessary or desirable to rely on witnesses other than himself in the· constructing of a news story, and I think you will recall I stated right in the article that I had indeed used other witnesses - referred to as \sources\ - in compiling the examples given. As sometimes 1,mfortunately happens, one of the kids I talked to apparently embellished his story to make it sound better, even though I told him it was · going into the newspaper, and that a lot of people could get into much trouble if anything untrue Were printed. The kid's girl friend, one of his room mates, and I, all remember him giving the story as I printed it, but now he says he did not, and there is nothing that can decently be done but retract that one example. Okay. . Now, on to the other main point - what the article was about. The column was intended . as a public statement of what I (and everyone I've spoken with, other than tl;J.ose insulated by the walls of Saga Foods) felt to be the common sentiment regarding the West College cafeteria; and it was a plea that, since the freshman class has to eat there, couldn't everybody who handles the food please try to be more ·careful. ·And that's all it was. I never meant to imply that Union's Saga was demonstrably worse than the food services of other schools, and - in the light of the falsity of the Spoiled beanS example - I can in no way say that Saga is either deliberately -out to screw the students, or that it has a simple c~Uous disregard for them. I cannot say -that, because I -do not believe it to be true. However, simply because Saga isn't any worse than most other food services, -that doesn't mean that no improvements can be made - which is, agajn, the main reason I wrote that damn thing. The food is greasy. The silverware is ·often cruddy. The lady at the door is often a hassle. The . dishwashing machine is often full of garbage. The crews working the three meals take delight in screwing each other. Sexism is indicated in job placement among the student workers. But these <;an be ironed out. I would like to emphasize that the column was not intended as a personal attack on the integrity of any of the permanent employees of Saga Foods. {Indeed, probably more than half of the foul~ups that happen are the fault of student workers-or, when it comes' to things like crud on plates and silverware, it is the fault of the student diners themselves. Yo u should . see some of the disgusting messes on trays handed in: by some' who have the gall to call themselves college students.) To return to a point I sattl I would, Harold Rfc:hardson and the ladies of Saga Foods are genuinely concerned about the health and well-being of the people who eat their food and - although I know some of them would like to take me over their knee (or worse) -l have a high degree of respect for the ladies of Saga .. As for Mr. Richardsqn, he is one of the most honest, compassionate and understanding men I have ever met, let alone at Union College, which suffers from a positive dearth of such types, especial.ly in the higher positions of responsibility. He can in no way be held responsible for any of the incidents of brain-fade which happen in the cafeteria, and I did not ever mean to imply that he was or should be. Concern For Center From Page 1 Also; considerable crowding may result with 2,000 students all picking up their mail iri the same place at the same time. Martin then. tried to ascertain what games students were interested in having in the College Center. there was not much response to this question, but two things were restablished: First, we would have at least one pool table, and second, bowling alleys would be impossible because of the walls in Carnegie. Other ideas were presented concerning the usage of space in the new center. For one thing, the Jazz. Workshop and Coffeehouse :equid have a .place to perform. Another possibility raised by a student is moving the Dean of Students' office and the Student Activities Office to Carnegie. At · :first:, · President Martin and Dean Malloy did not like the idea .. of· putti·ng administrative offices in the College Center, -but the students present did not seem to mind, so the idea will be reconsidered. Another idea raised was that measures should be taken to prevent the College Center from being \plastic\. One way of achieving this would be the students taking part in the painting and decoration of the center. ----·~------------~ AMERICAN HANDICRAFTS Co. • PLASTIC FLOWeR SUPP.LIES • DECOUPAGE • LIQUI·D PLASTIC • MOSAICS e COPPER ENAMEL • LAMPS • CANDLE SUPPLIES • KITS FOR GROUPS FREE CATALOGUE MAIL OROERS Located With The Radio Shack COLONIE I S~~~~~~G . 459M 1362 To recap, then: The story Featured at the coffeehouse at about the beans was all wrong. The article was not a personal 8:30 p.m. in Nott ,Memorial this attack on anybody\. The food Friday will be \Rat banjoist, guitarist,. and singer. service is no worse than any other school's - indeed, it has \Rat a well-known Saratog& definitely improved over the past Springs resident, has had a long few years ~ but, since people musical career beginning with the have to buy meal-tickets, there is fabled television Mouseketeers, most certainly\ room for where he went by ·the name of \Mouse.'' improvement. And this. is the last time I ever use anybody as a . \Rat\ once led an entire \source.\ townful of Pied Pipers to a \' watery doom with his enchanting · ·The Comprehensive Education singing and playing. He refuses Bo~trd invites any student or to tell people what his real name is, and when asked once if it was group of students who wish to propose a CED course for next his real name he replied in his thick Southern drawl: \That's year to do so. These do not 'Rat.\' include \Comp. Ed. 90's\ which The coffeehouse, under the are one person-ind.ependent combined leadership ·of Paul study courses. Students should: Delfin, general .manager; Jeff 1. Contact a facuUy member Alifanz, lighting director; and qualified in the subject area Nancy Warner, cook and bottle proposed who will agree to teach washer, has flourished with the course; increased patronage and finer 2. Work up a course proposal performers this year. With help with that faculty member (faculty from his friends, Delfin has transformed the coffeehouse members know the procedure.) from a shoddy and undependable 3. Submit the prQposal to C organization into a tightly knit omp. Ed. Board chairmen, R. . b d f . Gorden Bingham, by Feb. lS. an . o. mus1c de~otees. As with any course proposal Delfm and his troupe hope there is no guarantee of eventually . to make the approval. Students or faculty coffeeh?use fre~. of charge; for with questions should see Mr. 1 the . ~lme be.mg, ho wev.e r, Bingham. adm1sswn remams at one thin . . · . BliTHER ' .. i ' On Friday, January 22, at I p.m. in Social Sciences, Ron Young will speak about his trip to Southeast Asia, last December. He visited North Vietnam last ]Jlonth and was also in South Vietnam during the summer. Young was the leader of Moratorium 1969-70; * * * * The Tutorial Services for Union College are located in R~OJ.? 22 Old Geology buildmg - for any student in need of academic assistance. Students qualified to assist as tutors in any subject please phone Mrs. Maclay, extension 297. Beam, Old Gym Hall. * * * * There will be a rehearsal of Union College Wind Ensemble Thursday, Jan. 21, from 4:30 to 5:45 in Memorial Chapel. All interested musicians are urged to attend. For information see Larry Gutter, Matt Finley, Greg Paradis, or Mrs. Hamilton. * * * * Veronica Beechy will be interviewed on WRUC Thursday night at nine. Miss Beechy is an outspoken advocate of Women's Liberation and a member of the Sociology Department for the academic year 1970-1971. * * * * The Union College Hillel The Elections for class * * * * The coffeehouse a week from Friday will be free, beginning at II p.m. in the Rathskellar after the Mountebanks production that night. Rosalie Sorrels, who performed last week at the Caffe Lena in Saratoga, wit! be featured entertainer on guitar. Another frequent Caffe Lena performer, Bruce \Utah\ Phillips, the Golden Voice of the . Great Southwest, will be featured at. the coffeehouse February 12, Wmter Weekend. Phillips, a recent performer at the Gaslight Cafe in New York City, has undergone a revival with his corny puns and good-time country music. He is a prolific composer. The coffeehouse mentors also hope to have Dave Van Ronk popular city blues singer wh~ appeared at Lena's two weeks ago, and Jerry Jeff Walker, author of \Mr. Bo Jangles,\ during spring term. Ohio Stop plus San. Fran. Guest Artist Sat. Jun. 30 at 7:30 & 1 h30 p.m. PALACE Theatre Tickets $5.50 & $6.50 ON SAlE NOW at ALIA NY- Armadillo, Van Curlers SCOTIA-Iip111 A,ottiecny TI.OY- The Music Shack Drome Sound- TIOY t. SCH. Cryttal Mansiart-lAtHAM, & MOHAWK MALL Information (5111) 43--3345 announces two evening courses representatives will be held on beginning the week of January 25: Th 11 ~u:rs:d~a~y~. ~----~---...::_~~~~~~~~~~t .. Elementary Hebrew, Mr. r Wilkovics Wednesdays, Social Science Building Room US- 8:15-9:00 P.M. Talmud, Rabbi Rosenblum; Tuesdays, Social Science Building Room 115- 8:bo-9:00 P.M. All interested are invited to attend. * * * * If you are interested in the Montessori method of primary teaching, information is available for review in the office of Mrs. FILM HAPS PRESENTS \THE WILD ONE\ Starring MARLON BRANDO and LEE MARVIN \The first of the motorcycle epics\ Wed. Jan. 20 SS016 $1.00 7:00, 9:00, & 11:00 Quality Clothei .•. Quantity P.tlce§ ... Save .l'{gw c§lt /elti'§ \where style begins!' 416 State St. \Dowt~+owii.. Durin.g Our Annual Winter

; ' PAGE 4 CONCORDIENSIS, JAN. 19, 1971 \ ' Concordy Sports On Today's Scene Hoop F eve.r Strikes with BILL HOLLERAN Swimmers Thrash Hapless Cadets But Future Is Dim Basketball fever has finally struck the Union College campus basketball games is some old- fashioned high scho~I-style rooting. by .GEORGE BAIN junior, won the 50 yard freestyle and touched out teammate Tom Hough in the loo yard free. Hough's time was :54.9, and the winningclockingwas :54o8. team's,mernbets, tl}e Coach is noi . ttaining ~rr a_meet:,.by-meet basis hut is flOW shooting fOF a good performance in the State meet in March. and with good reason, because the varsity hoopsters just happen to be sporting a 9-1 record so far this winter and riding the crest of a phenomenal nine-game winning streak. And if the madness continues, the Garnet may even be headed for post-season tournament play. Basketball used to be the forgotten sport at Union College, a campus usually occupied during the cold waves and blizzards of a Schenectady winter with the feats of a jock wrestling team. the grapplers were usually quite good, rolling to an undefeated season in 1968, for example, and a 7-3 mark last winter. Coincidentally, it also happened that the basketball team was oftentimes abysmally lousy. 'Union hasn't had a winning hoop season since 1963- 64, and last season the cagers added to the seemingly endless ineptitude by parleying their talent into a 7-15 record. Accordingly, the basketball \crowds\ at Memorial Field House have, been sparse and hushed up until now, giving the place the atmosphere of a very t(Uiet morgue. On the other hand, the throaty, overflow wrestling crowds at Alumni Gymnasium, ringing the mat and hanging from the ceiling. often terrify Union opponents with their clever imitation of the Roman Coliseum during a Christians- lions matchup. This winter the grapplers are undefeated after two matches and the animal wrestling 'crowds still inhabit Alumni Gym. However, things have livened up considerably at the Field House for a change. The seating capacity of the place has been enlarged to accommodate larger crowds, and the Garnet basketball team was actually treated to the uncommon spectacle of two capacity crowds in a row. including cheerleaders. during a two-day weekend home stand ten days ago. The first gathering understandably showed up on Friday night to see if the hoopsters, who had won four straight games over the Christmas vacation, were for real. Their fears t(Uelled after Union's 81-75 win over the Saxons, they returned Saturda} night to root on their heroes in the Hobart game. The cagers are finally treating Union College to some excellent basketball .and deserve all the support the campus can muster. But the homecourt advantage in college ball means little if the crowd sits on its hands and watches the play in silence. What good old apathetic Union College needs at its It's nothing to be ashamed of, you know, to stand up and go bananas for your team, even if you are a grown-up, sophisticated college kid now. Such all-out support can begin Wednesday night, when the cagers take the court on the road against Utica College, starting at 8 p.m. It's not a terribly long ride out the Thruway to Utica, about 1m hour and a half, and· just about anyone on campus could grab an early dinner and be there by 7:30 with no sweat. So why not make the trip to Utica tomorrow night and show the basketball team that the campus is just a little bit affected by j,ts fine play so far this season? And by all means show up this coming Saturday night at the Field House for the game against Wesleyan, one of the to.p teams in New England. Maybe a large, boisterous home crowd can give the cagers the lift they need .to gain a measure of revenge for last year's embarrassing 85-66 Wesleyan win. Despite Coach Bob McMurray's guarded pessimism, the Union swimming team now boasts a 2~1 record, as a result of last Thutsday;s 77-36 trouncing ofNorwich. · The winless Cadets haplessly watched the visiting Garnet take first place in ten of the thirteen events and s:weep four events for their second win in a row. Norwich has not defeated Union in seven years. McMurray, however, !n .a turnabout from his optimism during last fall's soccer season, will be happy with one m0re win. The roughest part of the nine- meet schedule is ahead of the Garnet, and, \We'll. be lucky to finish l'lt 3-6,\ says he. Against Norwich, seniors Burt Yankiver and Dave Seward, and sophomore Steve Hill led Union, as they each captured two events. Yanki:ver won the backstroke and individual medley, and Hill took first in the butterfly and 200 yard freestyle. Seward, captain last year as a Thin clads Face MVCC In 1971 Home Opener The Garnet indoor track team returns to action on Thursday night, when the cindermen face Mohawk Valley Community College starting at 7:30 p.m. in the Field House. The meet will be the harriers' home opener, and will feature such performers as All-American Rich Jaszczak (600-yard, mile relay), Mike Rich (high jump), Jerry Cuffy (long jump), and Tim McCabe (1,000-yard run. two- mile relay.) Meanwhile, both Rich and Jaszczak have been named co- captains of the 1971 edition of the indoor track squad. Both are college record holders. Rich, a junior, holds the Union NOW 5th BIG WEEK \Brilliantly Done! Devastatingly Funn.y,\ -N.Y. Daily DAILY at 12:55 - 3:05 5:15 - 7:30 and 9:40 • Under 17 Not Admitted • high jump record with a 6-6 leap, while Jaszczak is the College 600- yard run record holder and owns a share of another record as anchorman of the mile relay team. I THE EUROPE I . . l Round-trip DC-8 JET j from New York I For only $210* round trip, · Icelandic Airlines flies you di· I rect to luxembourg in the heart of Europe for ~t connections to everywhere. Dally Jets. No groups to join. Stay one day or up to 45. Fly Icelandic-for lOW· est fares to Iceland, luxem- bourg, England, Scotland, Nor· way, Sweden and Denmark. &pedal fares for students and croups rem•lnlncov•rsus more . tluln 45 clays. Major credit cards -or Pay Later Plan. Mall coupon; then call your traver agent. *Add $20 onewayon Fri. and Sat. ~-------------------, I l To: Icelandic Airlines 1 . 1 630 Fifth Ave., N.Y. 10020 : : (212) PL 7-8585 I r Send folderCN on Lowest Jet : l Fares to Europe 0 Student , 1 Farese. : I 1 1 Name 1 I ,, 1 Street 1 I I ~ City : I I LUIGI'S RESTAURANT I State Zip_ I I I . : My travel a1ent1s 1 I ~ :-~------~~--------~J 'SPECIALIZING IN Italian .. American Food 1125 BARRETT ST. Schenectady OJ 6-9744 Enjoy Sizzling Steaks and Chops Visit Our Cccktail Bor ~ ' .. '>. lt:I/.ANI/1 AJ.~'IIu.~w.~'EIJ- ·• }tJJ'/1.1fl!)!JJJ LOWEsT AIRFARES 1 1'0EUAOPE of any schl;ldUIP.d airline Co-captain Mike Horwath took the 500 yard freestyle, Alex Bodenstab and John Horwath finished 1-2 in the breaststroke, l:lnd the Garnet captQred both reiay events. In the final freestyle relay, Union fielded ,a new team, of four underclassmen. Instead of the usual aggregation of Mike Horwath, Yankiver, Seward, and Hill, Tom Hough, Totn Klinkow, Mark Shulman, and Lloyd Mayer swam an uncontested race, turning in a time of 3:49.1. The next meet is Saturday against powerful Hobart at Geneva, and McMurray see~ no chance for a repeat of last year's thrilling Garnet upset. Despite discontent among some of the Pessimism seems to he the official word, and Union fans will have their chance to evaluate the team in the next meet at Foote Pool, January 30, against Kings Point. FERRO P.HARMACY 575 NoH .Street Schenectady. N. Y. FR 7-0510 FOUNTAIN SEi!VICE On4! btodc from Brownell Gate FANTASTIC WINTER CLEARANCE 20 - 50% OFF Leathers Sweaters ' . Outerwear Pants Suits Sports Coats· Opt>n Thurs: 'til 9 . I

not et basis a good meet in be the fans at against ,J I t· • Founded at Union College 1877 ··f . VOLUME 100, NUMBER 22 SCHENECTADY, NEW YORK, JANUARY 22; 1971 Priee Twenty Cents Student Housing Poll: People Prefer Privacy Mountebanks On St8ge Cynical Comedy Comes The Mountebanks, whose very existence as a viable theatrical group appeared to be severely threatened just a few weeks ago, gladly bring word of their first production of the winter semester. While the aged, erratic lightboard has not exactly returned from the dead, it has been given a very temporary renewal of life. The College Maintenance Department has managed to make enough of the old apparatus work so that (hopefully) six performances of the play, entitled \Tango\, can be delivered. Mountie sources report that the ·new lightboard partially assembled within a few weeks, meaning that this may be the las~ . time that the aspiring actors Wlll have to contend with unceltlin illumination. reverse generation gap). Mr. Katz assures us that there is a surprise ending to the .conflict, such a surprise, in fact, that no one is being told anything about . it. . \Tango\ is the work of a playwright named Slawomir Mrozek, who .was one of the leaders of the dissident Polish intellectual community. Mrozek left his native land following protests against the Soviet invasion of Czechoslovakia in 1968; he now lives in Paris. \Tango\ was written in 1967, and made its New York theatrical debut in January, 1969; the play had a rather lengthy run. Performances will be held on the nights of January 28, 29, 30 and Feb_ruary, 4, 5, 6. Curtain time in the N ott Memorial Theater is 8:30 P.M. and the theater box office will be open on Monday. Tickets for Union students are free, while tickets for their dates cost $1.00. All others are required to pay $2.00. by PETER DICKERMAN R. Gordon Bingham, Assistant to the President,. has released the results -of a housing . survey designed to elicit the preferences of students in regard to several housing options. At the same time, Mr. Bingham revealed that there is an \imperative\ need for the construction of a new dormitory in the very near future. The preferential housing survey, which wa~ conducted during winter term registration, received _responses from 1118 people, constituting 69.9% of the student body. Findings from students of all classes combined showed that the most popular option {insofar as total number of votes received) is that known , as the ''Fox-Davidson suite plus bath and kitchenette plan.\ This was described in the preference form as a suite with two double bedrooms and a living room, with its own bath and kitchenette. The projected cost for this type of arrangement is $600 per person per year. According to those polled, the second most preferred option is the so-called \North College renovation plan.\' .Such a plan is supposed to involve a residence hall consisting of singles and doubles, in which six to eight persons would share a bath, and which would contain a kitchenette on each floor. It is expected that these living quarters will cost $500 to $600 per person per year. It is interesting to note that the option .-eceiving the most first- place votes (although it finished in fourth place overall) was that which simply stated the existence of privately owned off-campus Mountebank's President Steve Katz has called ''Tango\ • a •:satirical, cynical comedy, filled with timely satire. To state the· plot simply, a young man named Arthur lives with his family in conditions approaching self- imposed poverty. However; in this case the parents are the proponents of a Bohemian life- style; young Arthur appears to be a born \straight.\ Displaying a desperate need to bring some order into his life, Arthur decides to take drastic action; he stages a coup d'etat within the family (evidence of a Professor Stone Receives Bailey Mathematics Chair William C. Stone, Professor of Mathematics and former Chairman of the Mathematics Department, has been awarded the Marie Bailey Professorship in Mathematics. Stite Senator .John Marchi The Bail-ey cltait in will deliver the Convocation .Mathematics is named for the T~esday, January 26, 1971, i~ Wife of the former Union SSOl6 at 8:00P.M. the topic will tr-easurer and life- trustee Frank · be \Responsive Federalism in .the · .Bailey. Seventi'es.\ D St · h r h · r ... one 1s t e 10urt faculty John Marchi; State Senator member to hold the Bailey from Staten Island, was the Professorship since it was Republican nominee for mayor - established in 1952. He succeeds of New York City against John Augustus H. Fox, professor Lindsay in 1969. He has a solid emeritus, who retired in 1968. reputation as one of the state;s Professor Stone, when asked most diligent political workers. to comment on how it felt to Called a \Staten Island sized receive this distinction, stated Eugene McCarthy\ he is a that he. was \honored surprised, conservative proponent of Jaw and delighted about receiving the and order in the truest sense of hon?r. ·: In answer to a question, the words. His detractors have he mdtcated that receiving this called him a potential Inquisitor professorship has little effect on capable of unknowingly Who one can teach. Furthermore, inflicting evil in the name of he said that Judging from other good, but his dedication to the winners of special professorships local community and state · is there is usually 'no real change in unquestioned. An observer has teaching approach associated noted that \Marchi has a vision with receiving a special chair. of the city, a decent, rational It is customary in these thing under laws justly and circumstances for the winner of thoughtfuUy arrived at and such an honor to give a public rigidly enforced.\ lecture. Dr. Stone will be giving his lecture on February 17, 1971. He will be speaking on the topic of \String Figures and the Olivier Models.\ Professor Stone commented that \Union owns the original set of Olivier models. They were purchased some years ago by Professor William Gillespie.\ The Olivier models themselves, are over 140 years old and were originally used as aids in teaching descriptive three- dimensional geometry. The string figures mentioned in the title of Dr. Stone's lecture are two dimensional models which he ha~ constructed himself. Pr~fessor Stone is a graduate of Union and received his Doctorate from the University of Chicago. He was originally appointed an instructor in Mathematics at Union in 1942. However, he left the college two years for military service, but returned in 1951 and has been on the faculty since: He was departmental chairman in 1966- 1967. On leave from Union, Dr. Stone has twice taught \abroad at th~ American University in Benut, Lebanon, as a visiting · professor,and at Robert College in Istanbul, Turkey on a Fulbright grant. apartments._ To quote the conclusion of the administration report: \Students appear to favor the privacy of an apartment-type setting with all facilities available to the occupants (rathe-r than shared). This accounts for the popularity of the 'Fox Davidson plus' and 'off-campus apartment' plans. As students progress to the upperclasses they increasingly lean toward living off-campus in preference to aily on-campus arrangement.\ In an interview which took place Thursday afternoon, Mr. Bingham emphasized the urgent need for immediate College initiatives in order to keep the campus housing situation reasonably solvent. According to his information, the Schenectady market for private apartments is now completely saturated; thus off-campus housing can no longer serve the function of a Continued on Page l Gati Given Fellowship On EUropean Outlook Political Science Professor Charles Gati has been awarded a senior fellowship for the 1971- 1972 academic year by the Research Institute on Communist Affairs at Columbia University. Professor Gati will spend the f~llowship period at Columbia to engage in research for an extensive study concerning directions of East European foreign policies in the 1970's. The project, which is planned to be done in manuscript form, will constitute another of Gati's many works on the subject of international relations. The professor has been a member of the Union faculty since 1963 and currently serves as director of the interdisciplinary program in Comparati·ve Communist Studies. Columbia's Research Institute on Communist Affairs, which Gati has described as a \think- tank,\ is directed by Dr. Zbigniew Brzezinski, a noted foreign policy scholar and a former member of the policy planning staff of the State Department. During the course of an interview held Thursday afternoon, Professor Gati noted that while working on this project he plans to use the \content analysis method;\ this was defined as a technique intended for the study of policy motivations by means of ''the systematic .analysis of key words and key phrases\ being \used by governments. In other words, Gati c;eeks to examine the actual impact of political symbols in the sphere of international relations. It is Professor Gati's belief that ••Europe is once again becoming ~ the key area of world politics,\ and a region in which future power · relationships will differ markedly- from the present situation. G'ati asserts that there is already the development of a common European outlook involving both Western and Eastern Europe. This incipient continental identity is perhaps based on a growing hostility toward super-powers, meaning the United States and the Soviet Union. As Professor Gati concluded, such a trend would appear to historically both the North Atlantic Treaty Organization and the Warsaw Pact. The Bloodmobile will be at Ahimni Gym11asium on January 26, and 27, from 11 a.m. to 5 p.m. Anyone 18 years old or over is eligible to give blood. You may not give blood more often than once every eight weeks. So if you gave blood in last term's blood drive and have not given since,. you may give again. Last year 175 Union students gave blood; this past fall, the number was 300, narrowly edging Skidmore's 274 donors. But last December the local blood bank ran out of certain types of blood and the need is still critical. Since Union community members are using ·blood bank services more and more, the Red Cross hopes Union students will give blood generously on the scheduled days.

PAGE 2 CONCORDIENSIS, JAN. 22,1971 · Carman Named To Study Letters to the Editor . - - . '~-:..:.., ' ' . . Alumni Rag Mortality by DAVID CONTI Bernard R. Carman, Union's Director of Publications and Public Relations, has been elected to a two year term as chairman of the publication~ section of District II of the American Alumni Council. Carman described the American Alumni Council as \a professional organization for people involved in alumni relations work.\ The Council works within three areas: the administration of alumni programs, alumni fundraising, and alumni publications. A major aim of the publications sectign of the Council is, as Carman explained, the improvement of alumni magazines through the exchange of views, ideas, and publications. Another goal, he stated, is \the developing of profession a I standards for editors and professional conditions for employment.\ He also hopes to develop programs in which more experienced editors of alumni publications will assist in the training of beginners in the field. \I have been asked, Carman said, to undertake a study on the general problem of mortality among alumni magazines.\ He used the Union College Symposium as an example of magazines forced to cease publication. One more issue of the Symposium will be distributed before publication stops. He added that the move is a purely economic one on the part of the college. When asked if he saw any repercussions arising as a result . of. the loss of the Symposium, Carman replied: \No but the more serious problem is how much can you afford to reduce communications with alumni before you begin to reduce the level of understanding among alumni as to what is happening at colleges.\ He- feels that in today's fast changing society a man who graduated from college in 1965 is as out of touch with what is happening at his alma mater as a man who graduated in 1950. Carman stated that one of the problems the American Alumni Council is trying to resolve is what exactly an alumni magazine should be. \Should it,\ he asked, \inform entertain, reassure and soothe, or keep t:he mental adrenaline going?\ As editor of the Symposium, Carman tried to make the magzine serve \as means of communication between the campus and people who are · looking at· the campus through eyes that sometimes cannot really see what is happening.\ Alumni, Students, Rap by HARRIS SAMUELS At the suggestion of alumni and the urging of students, a series of programs is taking place this month with Union undergraduates addressing alumni club meetings throughout the Northeast. Both alumni club presidents and a group of Union students had indicated an interest in the meetings. Jonathan Pearson III, Union's director of Alumni Affairs, responded to their wishes by setting up five such student programs for alumni meetings in January. Alumni meetings with student programs have been held \in Boston, Pittsfield, Hartford, and Schenectady, with one scheduled for Utica next Thursday. According to Pearson, the response to these meetings so far has been generally favorable. Referring to the alumni, he said, \They want to know what's happening on the campus. They want to understand.\ He cites coeducation, student attitudes, and changes in Union College as areas of alumni interest. Mr. Pearson feels that alumni are more interested in hearing students speak than in hearing faculty or athletic coaches, the latter groups having basically one specialized area of interest in the college. Pearson decides which students are asked to participate in these groups, after consulting with some students and faculty members to find out which students would speak well. If possible, he tries to have students from a certain area address alumni clubs in that same area. The goal of this program is to reach alumni and keep them informed of what is happening at Union. There are 32 alumni clubs, and Pearson hopes to send students to speak at more of their meetings in the future. He wants to get more alumni to go to the club meetings; he also hopes to revive some presently inactive clubs. . Pearson urges any students interested in participating in this program to contact his office in Lamont House. Editor-In-Chief Peter J. Weingold Managing Editor James E. Stewart News Editor Louis S. Snitkoff Assoc. Newt~ Editor Peter ~ickerman Features Editor Daniel Schochet Layout Editor Doug Wong Business MIIIUiger Lloyd Dims Alist. Business Manacen DougTosh Doug Binder National Adv. Mgr. Mark Shulman Sports Editor William J. Holleran Asst. Sports Editor Mark Shugoll Editors Emeriti William Ouzer Henry G. Fein Contributin& Editor Richard L. Kramer Photoarapby Editor JodySaslow Asst. Pbot~phy Editors Charles Long Dave Conrey STAFF: Harris Samuels, Judy Steinbach, Michael Goler, Less Goldman, Joseph Achenbaum, David Conti, Greg Haml!n, Bf~:~ce . Oarber, Michael Hollander, George Kaplan, Robert A. Levme, Mli'e Meserole Thomas Morante, Ruth Morton, Barbara McDonald, Tom Mitcheii.'Jay Hobard, Len Soi!Jmon, Georg~ Bain, Marty Berril.an; Reid Russel, Gail Goodman, Mark Zubres and Mtchael Rosenberg. l'u~lished Tu~)l> and l'rid~ys durin~ the school .Y.ear by the stu~ent ·Dn~Y of Un10n College. SchenccUldy. N,V .• Nauonal Advcrt!smg Representative. {'lat10nal Educational Advertising Service. Inc.. CDIIcgc ·publishers Rcpresen~atovc, 360: l.cxington 1\ve .. N. Y.C. Editorial oflicc. Old <lym, Vnion C'a!lcgc, Publication Ofticc, The World Publications. 771 State Street .. SO!Jencctady. N.Y. 12307. 346- 2356. Enlered in the Sehcnectady post <•fficc !Ill Scl:ond Cia•• Mail· Matter, Suh,.,ription 20 cents a copy. $6 u year delivered nywherc in the Uni!ed Stat4:f· \ \ To the Editor: In your Jan. 19 editorial, \Radical Fringe,\ you speak of the ap·pa,rent ''capricious appearance code of the Phys. Ed. depart111ent.\ It .seems that this so-called ''code\ is all the more capricious because such a code does not exist. A bearded student can play on the swimming, lacrosse, and soccer teams, but is excluded from the football, baseball, and basketball teams. I spoke to Coach Coleman, who sees his policy as a kind of compromise. Long sideburns and moustaches are permitted. Last year, one member ·Of the track team grew a beard; he was, thereafter, a non- participatory member of the team, but was not excluded from it. Numerous students did not participate on this year's football teams, because they weren't willing to patt with their long hair or beards. One member of last year's baseball team had to remove his moustache. Such diversity in standards is incredible. Members of our teams who are not WASPS should be thankful that their coach isn't a bigot, or they, too, would be excluded. Perhaps the most questionable incident occurred at this year's freshman basketball tryouts. Freshmen got dressed, and then warmed up in anticipation of the actual tryouts. No one was aware of any observation or trial during this period of time. However, when the group assembled, Gary Walters told Neil Meisel, the only bearded participant, that Walters had watched Meisel warm up and had decided that Neil wasn't good enough to play for the team. {Walters is coach of the Varsity basketba.ll team.) At no time· was Meisel asked to shave or allowed to try out. To my knowledge and that of certain members of the freshman hoopsters, no one else has been cut from the squad; a spot on the team was given to those who · wanted it. I leave it to the reader's judgement: Was it a coincidence that the only bearded student to try out for the team is the only one who isn't good enough to play? (And good enough in what way?) , GARY LEIDERMAN * * * * To the Editor: There is nothing more discouraging than to place trust in someone and then discover that he is somewhat less than · sincere. Many students were bitterly disappointed when Dick Ottinger and Senator Goodell showed that they weere really more interested in their own careers than in electing a liberal candidate. Campus liberals faced another major disappointment when the faculty council met Monday afternoon. A proposal was made that two of the junior year projects in comprehehsive education be graded on a pass - fail basis. The most outspoken opponent of this~ suggested innovation was none other than Professor Robert Sharlet. Professor Sharlet was regarded as a champion of liberalism by most students last spring and he did not reject the role. A role, as Professor Sharlet will tell you, implies an expected -pattern of behavior, Professor Sharlet has certainly not behaved in accordance with the role he seenied to enjoy last spring, howe'!'er. In one of his library plaza speeches. Professor Sharlet expressed great confidence in the potential of our generation to improve the political system itself. It seems incredible that he now opposes a minor innd'vation in the educational system suggested by those same students that he expressed such confidence in last spring. If pass ~ fail grading is too radi~l an educational innovation for Professor Shar.let 1 then perhaps he is not as open-minded towards change as he seemed to be last spring. Or perhaps he feels that too J;i:luch · change results in the loss of \technical conveniences\ such as class bells. In any case, I find this conservative behavior to be very unfitting for someone who spouted liberal philosophy such :a short time ago. Sincerely, Steven Spellman '73 * * * * To the Editor: . I just finished reading your last issue, and I'd like to co111ment on the article entitled 8eards: Bummer for Jocks.. Gary was correct in stating that there are many good athletes not out for sports, I wrestled varsity in my four years of high ·school. I was sectional champion for two years, and second in New York State in my junigr year, The reason I'm not out for the sport here is that l really don't feel like cutting my hair or shaving. Just because I might look different from the rest of the team does not mean that I wouldn't be dedicated to the success of the team and all that. I see no logical reason that people ml)st look the same to pursue a common goal. The assumption that individ!lals cannot function as a team is the basis for the shaved heads in the service. The Navy and Army are beginning to see the light and abolish their ridiculous rules. Why can't athletic departments see the light too? Perhaps the underlying reason is that the Phys Ed. teachers were jocks in high school, in college, and are now professional jocks. They did their things that right way,· and they won't stand for anyone who isn't as dedicated to sports as they · are; that : is, enough to sacrifice their hair. Their unwillingness to accept anyone different from themselves _ was epitomized for me last year, when a U. Col. wrestling coach, discussing freshman who didn't go out for sports, referred to me as \the worst shit of them all.\ I think, perhaps, that some pressure should be put on the athletic department to accept people according to their ability rather than by their appearance. John SteadweU, '73 * * * * ar,e involved (in varying proportions) in all the Projects (reading lists, papers, progress ,reports, etc.). :Projects were not approved until the Board was satisfied that a disc~plined, rigorous academic 'program was charted. · All of this does not seem to me ·to be what· the public thinks . of when the word \commune\ is used. The program is. nl.uch clo.ger in character and philosophy to an Experimental College, or a Co-operative Residence than it is to a ,commune. this, coupled with the unhappy connotations often attached to th.e word \commune leads me to insist on what l consider to be a more · accurate name for the program: The Experiment in Residential Living. This explanation . was given to Mr. Husten and he chose to ignore it. Let's face it, a \Commune\ sounds a lot more exciting, looks better in a headline, etc. I much prefer accuracy. I have said privately and now say publicly: I stand ready to discuss the academic merits of this program with anyone, on or off campus. who wishes to do so. If you have a gripe or · don't understand what's going on, let's talk about it. R. GORDON BINGHAM Director C()mprehensive Education Program More Housing Continued from Page 1 safety-valve preventing excess campus <:;rowding. Bingham • stated that at present 300 to 350 students live off-campus. The factor which appears to necessitate the building of a new residence hall is the continuing expansion in the size of the student body; if present plans are followed there will be approximately 1900 attending undergraduates by 1973. Originally, the College intended to convert the. physics and psychology buildings into residence halls. However, rec'i!ttly revised fire regulations require the installation of a fire- prevention sprinkler system. In Bingham's terms, the cost of such installations would make the entire project \unfeasible.\ To the Editor: Therefore, the most apparent Your January 15 issue quoted solution would be the me as saying that I did not intend construction of a new facility, to re.;pond . to the Gazette's under the assumption that the inaccurate story on the College could receive extensive Residential Living Experiment. financial support from both the Bruce Husten's letter in your state and federal governments. January 19 issue, however, Only under these circumstances prompts me to clarify a point or could the College absorb the two for campus readers. costs of more construction. In The Residential Living group any event, a definite decision consists of 8 students (not ten), concerning such a plan will have each of whom has submitted to to be made within one yea~. the Comp. Ed. Board an outline -========::;::~.=-=_;:: of study in connection with their participation in the. group. Each Project has a faculty advisor and each was approved by the Board. If anyone doubts the academic quality of the Projects being undertaken, they are welcome to read the original petitions in my office at any time. I do not recall saying (or implying) to anyone at any time that one or mote of these students \may not have to · do anything\ as part of his Project. The usual kin9s of work · fABIAN'~ PROC·TOR'S Schenectady. NOW THRU TUE$.· THE UlTIMATE EXPERIENCE FOR EVERYONE! - \DISHEr'S 11/ftATIIO/ImiMIJ Vlll'fti8E IS 111i SEASON'S H(THtvw~U\ I- 'll /111/W.MlD/A MASTIIIfiECEI\ L ... t CIVILISATION. The first in a series of B 50 minute color films exploring the history of the past 1600 years of CIVILISATION through its art and architecture, entitled \The Sldn of Our Teeth\ will be presented in the Schacht Pine Arts Center, Russell Sage College, Feb. 8, 1971, at 7:30. Admission is free and the public is welcome. * .. * * FILM HAPS PRESENTS · \THE CHASE\ Starring · kiJBERT REDFORD JANE FONDA' MARLON BRANDO Directed by Ar_thur Penn (director of \Bonnie & Clyde\ \Little Big- Man\ \Alice 1 s Res~urant'; Sat. ,sun.- Jan. 23·24 SS016 $1.00 .. 7:00, 9:.00, 11:00 il ,.

rying not was was to me .of is niuch and a the on more .was j; he it, a a now to of or SO. let's 350 to new the are oe jing 73 . ded ons In the the ces In a ll' • CONCORDIENSIS, JAN. 22, 1971 PAGE 3 There will be a meeting Jan. 28, 1971 at 4:00p.m. in SS016 of all Big Brothers, Big Sisters and any others interested in the program. ID cards will be distributed, plans for group ·activities will be completed, and any problems that have arisen will be acted on. * * \' '* the Second Introductory Lecture in Transcendental Meditation will be held on BLITHER . Friday, Jan. 22, 1971 at 8:00 p,m. inSS01·6; * * * * Thete will be an important meeting of the Protect Your Eitvironment Club, Monday at 4:30 in the SS lounge. All interested students are invited to attend. * * * * There will be an important meeting of the Sailing Club on We-dnesday, Jan. 27. The meeting will be held in SS 112 at 4:30 p.m. and all those interested in spring sailing should attend. - * \' * \' The faculty basketball team is looking for games against any floor, fraternity, or organized team. Most of the faculty's openings are oil Tuesdays and Thursdays around the noon hour. Any team interested should contac! Prof. Wells at 346-8751 ext. 370. THE COFFEEHOUSE PRESENTS \RAT\ guitarist, banjoist, singer Friday, Jan. 22 8:30 p.m. N ott Memorial Coffee and Chaos, plus Introducintffor the first time DOUGHNUTS All For Just $1.00 ····~ .. ~.beautiful do9 collar· .. · ·,1' . ._. ,.,· ···w···· .... · · ....... ·. ma·· ·y·c····l·ce·· col:lars -.··· ··i.·.~·,:.~ ':, .. ~ :···:\\ft:'· i; '' · .... · .. ···.· .... ·.· ·. . . .· ·.: .·· ·. • .· .. . -· .. · -,. ' .·· . ' . .. ;.;.----·-- And~'t~t~~ a grea~. traqe .. Ju;st fil'l in diFferen.tcameos: pink, green, or blue. l.he order-·51anil<·htilb'W~ enct~$i two In the .bargain, you'll discover that ~~n~ck .eoUars\ from any size ·bottle Rejoice leaves your hair rea:Jiy man- ·~'F: RtjQi:C,f! (o,nditioning Shampoo, age9bfe, truly workable ... right after ,~~nd Vo{e''fl'. send you this. synthetic ·shampooing. And that's nrel!ldy-to- .. ~~(:.:tie cameo· t'dog col,faru free. You go\ bair. So send your order. today .l~n ~vtn• ·~lay-e. vour choice ~f three and start u putting on the dog.\ )i..dL:~;~~~--~=---~-----------------------------1 \;l Please send me my free \dog collar:' I enclose 2 \neck collars\ from Rejoice Shampoo. I ·;·.':·:.:·,'!'_1'.,);::ii;':·i;i\~:;1(~·.';:·;··:,.:·:;.;:.' ·•: ·. ·;I Please send to: Rejoice \Dog Collar\ Offer, 1 .. ·' ,·.:. ·.: .. ;.·,:: ,,:.·, ...•...•.• ~!J P.O. Box 132A, Cincinnati, Ohio 45299 I -~~=~=: ·:'f ..... ·· ..:: ... -·· ·;: •. ·---- .• ·:·:·!·:=. ··t: .·.·: '· ·' ··:-·: ·~-Green_._ Blue I Name------------------~------~--------~ AddresS·----~------~---------- I I I I City State Zip f Offer good only in Stdtes of New York, Vermont, dod Massdchuse:tts. limit one per I , .. ;-- ·· person. Hurt'yl Offer expires June 30, 1971. Pledse allow 3 weeks for delivery. I' B . . . . . . CASH VALUt ~· cou•o•-•l•c•\ c<.rj ~~f:------------------\TiAR\Ai\ON\G-ooni\o-LiN\E __________________ _ jjf ·. t

PAGE4 CONCORDIENSIS, JAN, 22, 1971 Concordy Sports Hoop Rally Upends Utica For 10th In .. ~ow by BILL. HOLLERAN The Garnet basketball team just doesn't seem to want to see their phenomenal winning streak, • the longest here in fourteen years, come to an end. Wednesday night in Utica the winning skein was in grave danger at the hands of a surprising Utica College five. The Pioneers outplayed the Dutchmen on their way to a 42- 32 lead at the half and a 51-34 bulge with but 14 minutes left to play. The Garnet, however, came alive late in the game, breaking things wide open with a Jim Tedisq()-le9 scoring spree to win going away, 89-79. Union outscored Utica in the last 14 minutes, 55-28. The triumph was Union's tenth in a row after a disappointing opening loss. to Harpur, and solidified the Garnet's claim to the number four rating in New York State. The Dutchmen are currently ranked behind Buffalo, C.W. Post, and Brockport. The last Union hoop squad to win as many games in succession was the 1956-57 team that won II straight ' and finished the season at 13-3. The Garnet have already won three more games than last year's 7-15 team, and barring a total collapse seem headed for Union's first winning season since 1963-64. The first half was a disappointment for the handful of Union fans who accompanied the Garnet to Utica. The Dutchmen appeared to be tight, often hurrying their shots, while the Pioneers couldn't have shot better. The Garnet'!i cold-shooting worries continued into the early moments of the second half, as the hot-handed Pioneers upped their lead to 17 at the six minute mark. At that point Coach Gary Walters instailed a pressing defense and almost immediately the Utica lead began to evaporate. The fired-up Garnet pulled to within four, 61-57, at 9:48, and Dave Shames knotted the score at 73 on a beautiful assist from Tedisco with six minutes left. Shames hit again 40 seconds later to put the Dutchmen on top for good, 75-73. Tedisco was dazzling in the second half, bucketing 24 of his Jl total points and capitalizing on a foul-plagued Utica defense time and again. The Pioneers were in foul trowble throughout the second stanza, with three starters in danger of foUling out, and Tedisco took advantage of the cautious Utica defenders with pell-mell drives inside. During one span the junior sensation threw in 12 straight points. Doyle added 19 points to the Garnet total and hauled down ten rebounds. Bacher chipped in with 18 tallies and grabbed .a game-high total of 19 Febounds. High scorer for the 3-4 Pioneers ·was 6,.2 guard Doug Knapp with 24 points. · Lyszczarz had all left the game with five personals. The Utica game wou:nd up Union's two game road trip, with the hoopsters returning to ~the Memorial Field House court tomorrow night at 8:15 p.m. against a strong Wesleyan squad. The Cardinals have battled their way through a tough early season schedule to a 4-3 mark and boast all five starters averaging in double figures. Jim Aiken, a 6-5 center, leads all Wesleyan scorers and rebounders with 15.8 points and 14 rebounds per game. In . Three Pins Spark Matmen Tedisco's moves to the inside did the. job on the three foul .. troubled Uticans. With two minutes left, Knapp, guard Arnie Westervelt, and forward John · addition to Aiken, forwards George Fenton, at 6-4, and Brad Rogers, at 6-5, will give the Cardinals a pronounced height advantage over the Garnet NOW 5th BIG Paced by three pins, the Garnet grapplers defeated arch- rival RPl on Tuesday night, 24- 16. Once again, the sparkling performances of the Garnet freshmeA, who have held up strong thus far this season, told the whole story. AI Calabro at 118 and Pat Wardell at 177 recorded their third and fourth pins, respectively, for the Garnet. Bill Benedict (150) added the third pin. Following Calabro, who has yet to lose this year, another unbeaten freshman, Mark Zullo, recorded his fifth victory, 16-5. After Zullo's win the Dutchmen Pioneers Fall To '74 Cage by MARTY BERMAN The Union frosh basketball squad won its sixth game in seven outings Wednesday ·night, topping the Utica College yearlings, 93-77. Although the Pioneers were a formidable opponent, they didn't play up to par and the game was never in doubt. Bill Carmody hit for 18 points and AI Westbrook popped in 13 to lead the Dutchmen. Herb Riechenbach and Stan O'Brien each added 12 tallies. Utica came out running but they weren;t hitting their shots in the first half. This, coupled with Union's. hot hand, paved the way· for the easy victory. At the half the Garnet lead was 46-28. Everybody played in the contest, which provided an excellent chance for the Gamet ran into a bit of trouble, as Len Solomon was decisioned at 134 and Mark Lanes was pinned at 142. Benedict, however, came through with his pin to put the Garnet ahead, 13-5. RPI fought back to tie things up when Penn Sheldon was caught in the third period. Tracy Rich put Union back on top, 16-13, as he recorded his first win at 167, 9-4. With Wardell's pin, the Garnet lead rose to 21-13. Gary Mortis, at 190, came up against a toUgh opponent in RPI's Bob Coleman and lost his first match of the year by a 4-0 score. Howie Benedict topped the match off by keeping his own record intact with a 16-0 decision. Coach Gerry Everling was slightly disappointed with Tuesday's match in that he felt the Engineers should have been an easy victim for the Dutchmen. Nonetheless, the results were pleasing. What has kept the Garnet in such good shape so far this AMERICAN HANDICRAFTS Co. • PLASTIC FLOWER SUPP.LIES e DECOUPAGE • LIQUJD PLASTIC • MOSAICS • COPPER ENAMEL • LAMPS • CANDLE SUPPLIES • KITS FOR GIOUPS FREE CATALOGUE MAtt ORDERS Located With The Raclio Sflacl:: COLONIE . I s=n~G . 459-1362 bench to show off their skills. H#HHHHH#HH#HH#H4 Taking advantage of the . . season is. the team's good balance. Losses at one weight have thus far been compensated by wins elsewhere. Barring any injuries and provided the team continues to progress the way it has, last year's 8-3 record should be at the very least equaled. Tomorrow and Wednesday the Person. or group intereSted in running a branch of the School Pool non- computerized dating service write to: SCHOOt POOL Sage Hall Cornell University Ithaca, N.Y. 14850 . WEEK .\Brilliantly Done! Devastatingly .Funny.\ -N.Y. Dally DAILY at 12:55 - 3:05 5:15 - 7:30 and 9:40 • Under 17 Not Admitted • . Dutchmen are on tlie road to face Hobart and Dartmouth. Wins in those bouts will bring the team back to Schenectady with a 5-0 Fecord for their first home match in two months, . against Kings Point on January ~---------- 30. ~~------~--------~------------~--~ .,CAMPUS REP. I ' ~EEDED I Write to: Jack Green j International Tent Retreats 350 East 84th St. New York, NY 10028 SOMETHING NEW IN RADIO AT UNION WRUC SUNDAY THRU THURSDAY 9 P.M.-10 P.M. Sun: Paul Delfin and \Earsight\ Tues: Uncle Bob Wed: Steve Kaufman and \Bluespower\ Thurs: Bear Robbins and \Openair\ WRUC 640kc ~MAMA .BIANCHI'S RESTAURANT . . . 1135 Barrett ·St. Real Italian Food Cooked· To Order We C .. ter .To Students The Friendliest Place in Town OPEN TO 3 A.M. FRI. aqd. SAT. situation were Kevin Donnelly'lfour fufute ~- .... and Byron Jackson, who threw · ':' ' ~~~~~~t points apiece (personal Awcdf.c tke, Teet.~ ::==========:::::::===================::::;::::==~ Dave· White also hit a season high of six points while Holly Cornwright, Gene Parker, and Ike Fitzgerald were equally impressive on the court. Saturday night the ·Dutchmen • Prcpat.~~tion for tests required for admission to post-graduo1to f , b school, go a ter Win num er seven • s;, and twelve,..,;\\ co\''\' • Le!~on !chedulu can b\ +ai~ lored to meet individual r~eeds. lessons can ba spread over 1'1 period ·of sav&ro!ll months to ~ year, ar lor out ol town stu• dents, o!l ocrlod nt \\\'· ........ t. against always tough Wesleyan. : t~:~~~~:~P:,.dv \'•'o•l•' fo• This year the Cardinals boast of ~~':::' ~~~~~~hp~=~ ... d bv ••· Dean Richlin, a sta·ndout forward who is expected (o be STANLEY He KAPLAN one of the school's alltime best. EDUCATIONAL CENTER lTD. Fortunately for the Dutchmen, Richlin, who has been averaging 26.7 points a game so far, will miss this tilt as h~ has been hobbled with crippling injuries to his knees. Tip-off time for th•! contest is 6:15 P.M. in Memorial Field Ho..Jse. TUTORING AND GUIDANCE SINCE 1938 1675 East 16th St., Brooklyn, N.Y. (212) 336~5300 ,Y,;m;u ~ . . 1~~ ( 51.6 ). 538'--4555 I>Jum&M \:::: STANLEY H. KAPLAN, AFFilliATESj3 . · In Bostan • Phllldalphlo ~ • WMhh\gton • r;lec1rolt The Tutoring School with lhe Nationwide Reputation 'For three \ Generation$/ Those Who Know •.• Have been recommending • HERSHEL MAURICE B WALTER ''3 Union Graduates in Graubart Family\ 166 JAY ST. FOR HONEST SERVICE ANI) GOOD JiWELR'V - ~·· / ,,

game up· with •the court P·!ll· their boast in leads and and In Brad the • • .. ~· .... -' WOLUME 100·, NUMBER 23 SCHENECTADY, N.EW YORK, JANUARY 26, 1971 Price Twenty Cents ... L . . . . . . . ..... . . • ' - § ·wRUC Announces .Plans To Initiate 'Toga Show by KEVIN ROBERTS From an article published in ·Concordiensis earlier this year,. many student, faculty, and staff members inferred that WRUC was in dire straits. The Saratoga campus rebuilt by WRUC .specifkally for that purpose. letters to WRUC, stating preferences in terms of programming possibilities as well as expressing the need for FM here at Union. Letters may be submitted in the Student Activities Office. Peace Corps Director Joe Blatchf(Jrd talking with Peace Corps Volunteers ove_rseas. 'misconception that WRUC was doomed to he shut down is an e'?(aggeration of the fact that the station is merely seeking an incre!lse in student participation and in advertising subscriptions. the statien also announced plans to resume remote broadcasts from D' Andreas in Saratoga, as well as coverage of two varsi}y basketball games, against Williams on February 16,. and the season finale against Hamilton on February 24. WRUC, Ditt~r said, is now in the final stages of filing an application for an FM frequency. Students are requested to send Work on the application is being carried out in two phases; technical research concerning the location of a tower must be completed, along with the actual completion and submission of the application to the Federal Communications Commission. Expanded Opportunities In The Peace . Cor.ps .. In addition, the sum of $1800, feared lost due to tardiness in answering incoming mail, was '!lltiniate!y procured. . · Bob Ditter, General Manager of WRUC,. now points to a significant improvement in the station's status. A recent recruitment drive increased the number of students actively i'nvolved in operation procedures from twenty to fifty. C~eds · ·surueged : B,y Senate ttPrefer Alterngting Suites\ ·In a special message to the Concordiensis, Peace Corps Director Joseph H.· Blatchford annol.lnced new opportunities for graduating Union College students to serve overseas with the Peace Corps. \Union College alumni have made a tremendous contribution over the past decade ·to Peace Corps programs throughout the world, ... deClared the 37:..year-old Director, noting that a total of 36 Union College graduates have already serVed abroad as Peace Corps Volunteers since 1961. \We look forward· to continued support Jrom Union College in the '70's.\ According to Blatchford, who himself has spent much of his adult life in volunteer social service, applications for two-year tours are currently being accepted to. staff new programs in virtually every one of the 61 countries in Africa, Asia and Latin America where the Peace Corps operates. The Peace Corps requirements of today, Blatchford pointed out, are somewhat different from those of the 60 1 8 when the Peace Cbrps consisted primarily of · generalists inyolved in tommunity planning or teaching English. Now,- the development needs of the host countries are becoming more specific, and the Peace Corps is responding with more diverse and specialized programs than in its early days. To staff these programs, the Continued on Page !J The sale of advertising time, Ditter reports, has also shown a significant increase, and for the first time, women are involved with the students' operation. Beginning on February 8, Skidmore will begin broadcasting in. the \Schenectoga Circle\. for two hours a day, Monday through Friday, provided a phone line b~tween the Schenectady and Saratoga studios can be installed ·in time. The installation is being delayed by a recent strike of local telephone company employees. The Skidmore broadcasts will come from a studio on the by PATTYSIPE The results of the Student Senate-sponsored survey on co- ed housing were announced by Walter Spencer yesterday. The purposes of the survey were to determine how many women would be willing to live in any form of coed dormitories next year; to determine th,eir preferences among the different forms of coed dorms; and to asc~rtain how many women would be willing to live in West College if it were the only coed dorm. The res:ponse was The idea of living in West College next year if it were the enly coed dorm certainly did not appeal to the Union coeds. A maximum of twenty students would be willing to live there if it were coed by alternating rooms. Even fewer would be willing to live there if it were coed by floor or wing. This indicates that there doesn't ap,pear to be much of a possibility for eli.minating West as a freshman dormitory by converting it to a coed facility. Coach Flood Resigns Union Duties Takes U of .Mass Coaching Post overwhelmingly in favor of coed housing and eighty-eight of the one-hundred nine women students surveyed indicated that they would be willing to live in a coed dorm next year. Those students who were willing to live in coed dorms were then asked to indicate a preference among ·three possible forms of coed housing. The women showed a marked preference for a plan in which men and women would live in alternate rooms on the same floor, especially in dorms like Fox and Davidson which have four-••man\ suites, offering more privacy. Under such a plan, separate plumbing facilities would be required by t.he New York State Health Code. Abramowitz New Head Of Upward Bound A Buffalo native, Martin Abramowitz, was named director of the Capital District Upward Bound Project at Union last week. by BILL HOLLERAN In a surprise move yesterday afternoon, Union's athletic director and head football coach George Flood resigned to take an offensive coaching position at the University of Massachusetts. Flood announced his resignation, effective February l, late· Monday after.noon. He will take over the assistant backfield ceaching-duties for the Redmen ofUMass. Flood declined to comment on a possible succes~or to his football coaching position, although Garnet · defens i've coordinator and wres t.ling mentor Gerry Everling appears to have lhe best shot at the job. Last season Everling directed a stingy Union defense which allowed by' 11 points per game and was in.strumental in the team's S-4 showing. Flood was also non-committal when asked to name a successor to his athletic director post. Most signs, however, point to the Garnet's outstanding lacrosse coach Bruce Allison as the next director of athletics at Union. Flood's move to UMass has to be considered a step up for the Springfield College graduate. Even though he is giving up his job as director of athletics for a post as an· assistant football coach, Flood commented, \It's a move in the right direction.' 1 Flood . apparently felt that he was leaning move towards administration in his duties at Union. To avoid such a pigeorihoie he selected the Massachusetts offer which he first- received two and half weeks ago. Flood added that the UMass job \will open mqre doors in the football area. It will mean footballl2 months a year.\ . Although he declined to admit that he was moving on .to a higher level of. intercollegiate football play, Flood confessed that the situation at Massachusetts is \more competitive.\ He remarked that he \enjoyed\ his seven years at Union. After his graduation from Springfield in 1953, where he played. football and baseball, Flood served with the Marine Carps in the Far East where he coached a service team in Japan. Flood took over the head coaching reigns at Rome Free Academy in Rome, N.Y., in 1957, where he posted two undefeated seasons and three conference championships before moving to Union in 1964. Flood has served as Union's athletic director since 1969. . Flood's s;ven Garnet football teams compiled an overall record of 26-28-3, including a 7~1 mark in 1968 which was good for a fourth place rating in the Lambert Cup voting for the. top ECAC Division III team, A strong proponent of the overland route on offense, Flood installed a triple option attack last season and improved the Garnet's running game considerably. The collected papers of the iate Samuel P. Nixdorff, an engineer with the General Electric Company in Schenectady for 46 years, have been donated to the College, it has been announced. The documents, which include daily work journals and laboratory notes, supplement and support the papers of Nixdorrs . colleague, electronics pioneer Ernst F. W. Alexanderson. The Alexanderson papers were donated to the college last spring. Nixdorff worked for GE from 1910 until his retirement in 1956, much of that time with Alexanderson who is credited with giving the first public demonstration of television, in 1928, and with the invention of the color television receiver in 1955. In addition to the Nixdorff and Alexanderson records, the Union College manuscript collection includes many of the papers of eleutrical engineering pioneers Ernst Berg and Charles Steinmetz. The Nixdorff papers, donated by his widow, Mrs. Evangeline Nixdorff, have been added to the manuscript collection of the Schaffer Library. - Responses to the other two plans showed a very slight preference for a coed dorm-by- wing arrangement rather than by floor. In the first plan, men and women would live in a wing-by- wing system, sharing a common lounge. In the second, there would be alternating all male and all female floors: At 8:00 p.m. on Thmsday, January 28, the International Relations Club will pte11ent Professor James C .. Thomson Jr ,, speaking in SS016 on \China Policy Reconsidered.\ He is generally considered an expert on American policy toward China. Professor Thomson served with the State Department and the White House from 1961 through 1966. He has written an analysis of the growing U.S. role in Vietnam ·during that period in the Atlantic Monthly artitle, \How Could Vietnam Happen?: An A11topsy.\ Following the talk there will be a reception upstairs in the Faculty Lounge. Refreshments will be served • ....... ) Abr.amowitz left high school at 16 but seven years later, he resumed his studies and ear:ned a bachelor's and master's degree 1n the New York State university system. His appointment to the post is effective immediately. For three years he taught in the Buffalo public schools, and in the surrounding area, working primarily with mentally retarded students. Since 1969, he has been working in the computer field, most recently with the National Cash Register Company as account manager in Albany. Abramowitz succeeds Peter M. Crawford as head of Upward Bound. He resigned last August · to accept a position with the Urban Center of the State University at Albany. . This is the· fifth year for the federally funded program at Union. The project takes high school students with unfulfilled academic potential and offers a wide variety of educational and cultural activities with the aim that those enrolled will continue on to higher education. Last year, students from Troy, Amsterdam and Schenectady attended the six week summer session on the Union campus. Follow-up services are maintained throughout the. regular school year. Union is one of twenty colleges and universities in New York State which participate in the Upward Bound program.

PAGE 2 CONCORDIENSIS, JAN.-26,.1971 ~ ... i .. ~ ~,o ...... ~'V\:'l~ Qtnuror ~\(;. -llirnsts: :: . ~~~. MaaaaiazEdltor James E. Stewart News Editor Louis S. Snitkoft' Ancx. News Editor Peter Dickerman Features Editor Daniel Scbochet Layout Editer . Doug Wong ·~ Peter J, Weingoid BudoeuManapr UoydBims Atilt. Business .Manapn DougTosh Doug Binder National Adv. Mar. Mart Shulman Spoi'ts Editor William J. Holleran · Aut~ Sports Edkor Mark Shugon :Edlt ... Emalti William Outer Henry G. Fein Contribllllnt Editor Richard L. Kramer Pbot9papby •or JodySaslow AMt. PhotOF,tpby Editon Charles Long :DaveCo~y STAFF: Patty Sipe, Les Goldman, Jay Hobart, Marc Lust, Harris Samuels, Judy Steinbach, Joseph Achenbaum, David Conti, Greg Hamlin, Michael Hollander, George Kaplan. Robert A. Levine, Mike Meserole, Thomas Morante, Ruth Morton, Barbara McDonald, tom Mitchell, Len Solomon, George Bain, Marty Berman, Reid Russel, Gail Goodman, Mark Zubres and Michael Rosenberg. Published Tuc.days and 'l'ridvY'! durin~ the school.~car ·by the 5t~nt lio<!Y ol Union College. Schenet1ady, N.Y .• !llatounal \dllf:rt1•1ng RcpiCljenljiiiVc, !l'atoonal· Educational Advcrti•ing Scrvk<:. Inc.. Collesc Publisbcrs Rcprescntiltov~. ~00 l.cKington Ave .. N. v:c. Editorial office. Old <iym, U~tion College, Pubhcauon (lflicc. The Wor.ld Publications, 771 State Street., Schenectady, N.Y. l:pl)7. J46. 23S6. l:ntered in the SchellCCiady po•t oUicc as Second Clas.1· Mail Mauer,. Suhsc:ription 20 cents a copy .. Sf> a year delivcri:d anywhere in the United States. To the Editor: In light of the jock-centered controversy over hair length and beards, it is time to report on an interesting occurence involving hair length and beards, though in a non-jock field. Three weeks ago, I applied for a grant-in-aid job at the Student Aid Office. Mrs. McManus referred me to Mrs. Sarnacki the head nurse in rhe infirmary. I inquired there, and w.as told that this particular job involved sleeping over at the infirmary two nights a week and every third weekend, and my. duties would be to admit patients and, at the most, to take their temperatures; nothing more than to assist the nurse if things got busy. I said I would like the job, and the head nurse, Mrs. Sarnacki told me that I'd have to be neat and clean-cut. I asked if this meant that I'd have to shave and get a haircut, and she replied \Yes.\ As to my appearance, my· hair is a good three inches from my shoulders and my beard is· very close-cropped. Well. I said I wouldn't shave and that I would not take the job. I wondered why hair was such a large factor in employment at the infirmary. Af~er all. I work four hours on Wednesdays in the pyschiatric ward at Ellis as a \'olunteer. and they don't say anything about my hair there. True, working in the infirmary means dealing more with physical. rather than mental disorders. and for hygienic reasons I could see short hair and no beards as a requirement. But for that matter, I sincerely doubt that I would have to pe.rform surgery. or that a representative from the Mayo Clinic would drop in at 2 a.m. and be appalled at my appearance. Hell, the nurses hair is longer than mine, and tnost of the patients have hair longer than mine. I was at a loss as to why I must be clean-cut and neat. hair edict, and had told Mrs. McManus that that was the reason. Well, Mrs. Sarnacki replied to Mrs. McManus that she only wanted the boys to be CLEAN, with CLEAN beards, but not necessarily with SHORT hair and NO beards. J was not told this three weeks ago. Then, l would have been forced to shave and get a haircut. Now, it looks like l could have had the JOb from the start. Now the job is taken. · After discovering from Mrs. McManus that 1 need only :be clean, I spoke to Mrs. Sarnacki. She also told me that l need only be clean. I asked if this meant washing my face. She said yes. Well for Christ's sake, anyone in college to begin with has to have enough goddamn sense to wash his face! Jesus, I SHOWER everyday, much less wash my face! · I am NOT calling anyone a liar by any means, but three weeks ago I was refused the job because of my hair and beard. Now it seems that I can have a CLEAN beard. I have a - temporary job at Saga, but I need a steady job. Mrs. McManus has me #I on the list for a job at the infirmary. Well, good. But why didn't I get that job in the first place!'? I don't like being told one thing three weeks ago, and then another NOW, especially when it costs me a job. I am not crying that I should be given the job ·. instead of the guy who's got it now, but I am saying that something should be done about all this crap about hair and beards, Harvey L. Civins '73 \' \' * * To the Editor: One of the Pass/ Fail petitions before Faculty Council last week that Steve Spellman referred to in his criticism of Professor Sharlet (Concordy, January 22) dealt with my course on the \Politics of Dissent in American Higher Education.\ The report I received from the Chairman of Division I on the action of Faculty Council led me to believe that Professor Sharlet had been the primary opponent of this petition, and I communicated this information to my class, who including Steve Spellman, had unanimously initiated the Pass/Fail petition in the first place. I spoke to Dean Malloy about the situation, and since he hadn't done anything as of Friday the 22nd, I decided to find out for myself. Yesterday, Monday, the 25th, I asked Mrs. McManus if there were any grant-in-aids available. I was told no. Then she told me the infirmary job was already taken, but that Mrs. Sarnacki had asked her why no .one was interested in the job. Mrs. McManus told her it was because of the hair requirement. It seems that other guys were refused the job because of the In fact, Professor Sharlet's questioning of this petition was based on a misunderstanding of the course, not on any opposition On . The Appeal -Of \Love Story\ A Receptive · Study In Death . style, of the way he· says things. the story. So, what about the by RAY KRISE JR in this respect, Erich Segal is in story? I finally read Love Story, about the eleventh grade. He I like it. It's. a little mawkis~ something I've been meaning to tries hard to be cute and but so is Led Zeppelin, and l like do for a long time. Admittedly, 1 charming, For example, he · them, too ~ in small dose&. was consciously t:cying to be several times has a character Jennie's father, a'lthough sort of open,.minded when I was .going thinking a thought in the last line an asshole, is a touching. asshole. thr.ough it, as l almost certainly of a paragraph, then saying the Oliver's father is an untouching would have been all set to hate it exact line in a piece of dialogue asshole, :but possesed a greater from everything I'd heard about illl)nediately following. His degre~ of c<:>mpa~sipJLthaii Otiver it (after all, you don't get a best- utilization of chic cur~ing ~ ga,ve him credit for, .possibly even seller by writing literature). The especially by Jennie - is almost more than old . Olivet bad only thing that saved the book self-conseious; iCs unconvincing. himself. Jennie was a good girl, was Erich Segal, who's struck me While we're on the subject of but she deserved to be kicked as a pretty out-front type of g11y, unconvincing, young Oliver down a flight of stairs a ,couple· of and he'd said he hadn't intended Barrett IV comes in f<)r. tneo.tion. times. (lfs funny hew girls see to write about anything deep in Segal has, in Oliver, made the things ~this girl asked me what Love St(lry, he just wanted to same mistake Robert H. Rimmer Fd thQught abeut Jennie being entertain people. .made in The Harl'ad E~periment Olivefs strength; funny, I hadn't Well, since he was right about he sets himself up with a seen it that way at all.) not having written anything character who is too smart for · The love stary is, l think, as deep, Love Story must be judged that particular author to be able much be~ween the fathers and on whether it's entertaining or to portray. Rimmer asks us to their children .as it is between not. This is a difficult question believe the students .of Harrad Oliver and · Jennie themselves. for me to answer since, as a are the absalute top graduating That, I think, is why so many, writer and lin English major, rm high school seniors in the especially of my generation, h:we highly conscious of a writer's .country, but ·they are too dumb. clasped love Story to themselves to Pass/ Fail petitions in the hope that Mr. Allen's petition for his project in experimental education might be approved while mine could be referred back to the Divisions for further consideration. Both petitions are there now and, hopefu1!y, will return again to Faculty Council. .David Stineback Department of English * * * * To the Editor: I really must decline the titles \champion of liber-alism,\ \most outspoken opponent\ of pass-fail grading, and ex-champion of liberalism, all conferred upon me by Steven Spellman in the last Concm;dy. These just aren't my style. I try to take the issues as they come, one at a time, without ideological predisposition. This is what I have always understood as meaning \open-minded towards change.\ One ot,her· thing, I'm .also very keen on accuracy. Robert Sharlet Department of Political Science DIAMANTE'S Enioy Our Fine Home Cooked Italian Food in Out C~mfortable Dining Room Opp. Th• Brownell Gote on NoH Str..t Open. Doily 10 to A.M. Sundays 5 P.M. to I A.M. Segal asks us to believe Oliver - it's a very comforting, and, Barrett IV graduated from yes, sentimental book. Love Harvard magna culh laud~, but means more than never h~ving to he is too dumb. No, it has say you're sorry. Love means absolutely nothing to do with his always being there when you're being a jock~ jocks can be just needed. · as smart as anybody else - it has to do with his imperception of his father, with his goals in life - but I guess I'm being an elitist. But to hell with Segal's style. Obviously, the American public has never really been able to tell good writing from bad writing, so we- have to restrict ourselves to PYE TIPS Our affluent and highly productive society also produces much waste. The average American produces 5.32 .pounds of garbage daily. This is as much as 50 Indians create in the same time period. Please pick products that· don't waste packing materials or are recyclable. --- The Wind Ensemble will hold an important rehearsal on Thursday, January 28, from 4:30 to 5:45 p.m. in Memorial Chapel. If you can blow come and join us; we need you.. Without a good turnout, continuation of plans for the ensemble wiD not be possible. 1 I Person or group interested · in running a branch of the School P.ool non- computerized dating service write to: SCHOOL POOL Sage Hall Cornell Univ~rsity Ithaca, N.Y. 14850 With Rod Stewart Kenny Jones, Ronnie Lane, lan Mclagen & Ron Woad THE GREASE BAND {formerly with joe Cocker) Coming: pyrds, Cactus, 10 Yrs. After, Elton John, ·Hot tuna, Willie Dixon, stapple Singers and many, man:Y others Publicity: New Concept Assoc's, Inc. Production & sound: Nat' I Student Productions, Inc. N.Y.C. & Campbell, Calif. Programming: ,Ashwood House, Ltd, Peter Pause Except where ·Indicated!· 2 .shows nightly at 7:30 & f1 :30 P.M., seat ng by sectlon!Tic-et Info: (518) 434-3345 ~ Business offic~: (518) 434~2179- N.Y.C. (212) Jll2·0909. \Be SUfi! to get stub and han~ stamped upon entering show.\ Mall oraers: Check ·or money order payable to \Nat'l student PredliCtians, Inc.\ Box 712, Alb., N.Y. 12201. Enclo~e self-ad· .dressed stamped envelope & specify date & time. Orders'receh,led 1 wk. before show will be held at box office until show time. Box offic.e opens at 2 P.M. day of show. Remain· lng tickets available one week prior (through diJY preceding show): -Albany; MABOU, 238 Washington Ave. 434•3290; Schenectady: THE OTHER SIDE OF TODAY, 135 Jay St. 346·9108~ Mohawk Mall: CRYSTAL MANSI.ON & DROME SOUND; Troy: THE MUSIC SHACK, 97 Con· gress st. 273·1400. ·535 Nott Street

the I' like dose&. sent of asshole. greater Otiver even had girl, kicked :of see what being hadn't as rs al)d many, h~ve and, Love to means you're at (518) sure order Inc.\ & W Will Box 238 ROME Con· COl'{CORDIENSIS, JAN. 26,1971 PAGE 3 Impasse As An ~Institution Coffeehouse. Sponsors Victory, Defeat, Compromise F!!,eSo,!~~~!!r .. ~~~!'!\ regular and a fine composer, will come Winter Weekend when be featured during a free concert Bruce \Utah\ Phillips, the at ll p.m. in the Rathskeller Golden. Voi~ of the Great following· the Mountebanks play Southwest, will bring his country- on Friday night, picking fingers to Nott The fOllowing is - el!'cerpted from an article entitled \After Impasse: Nothing,\ from the e1111ent issue of \Group Process~\ It is intended to · stimulate thought and discus~don, 1\Pd replies wiD be printed at tbe discretion of · the editor. Dr. J{erman is P:rofessor of Economics and· Pub lie Administratio~ at Union. ~y ROBERT S. HERMAN Pope John XXIII procllrlmed 'in Pacem In Terris that \There can be no peace between men unless there is peace within each one of them''. But what happens wlien \tnen\- combine into \nations\ and behave inter- · necessary as the only alternative to planetary holocaust. In nuclear confrontation· there are no winners~ oll}y Iostrrs. Barring a death-wish fantasy, there can no longer be purpQseful provocation -of massive conflict amon,g nucl~ powers. Compromise, rather than winning, must ·become the paramount objective. Compromise ~comes equated with -survival, and, in the case of inter•nationai coriflict, surVival therefore becomes eqJiated with winning. Survival, then becomes the goal, the •'win\. If survival is winning an<J if the means to survival is conciliation and compromise, then impasse is not only· tolerable and necessary, but it becomes the goal, the prize ·sought for and awarded to the \winners.'' How does this get accomplished? How does impasse supplant .victory as our cultural symbol for winning? Who .are the new leaders, the transformers, the therapists who bring this abo'!lt? What techniques,· what ex~rience, what insights are available to help us (the planetary \us\) reach this transformation? faith. Faustian man must not be allowed to commit .suicide because his ,perception of victory is archaic and hopeless, Victory died at Hiroshima. Impasse began when the Soviet Upion demonstrated its nuclear capability. International politiCians have had considerable experience with impasse situations over the past 20 years: Korea, Berlin, the Pueblo incident, and many others. Can they become accustomed to it, and view impasse as the normal, rather than the unusual, result of international crisis? Can international politicians sell impasse to . cultures that for centuries have grown accustomed to rejecting it in favo.r of the win- or .. lose opportunity? The answer to these questions is: \We don't know\. But we do know that it is imperative to find out. We also know that decisions are made by men, either individually or· collectively, but by men nonetheless. The starting P,lac~, therefore, is man and his decision-.making apparatus. Miss Sorrels, guitarist and Memorial. He is not to be missed. songstress from Salt Lake City, composed \The Baby Tree,\ a children's song. which the Jefferson Airplane perform on their \St_arship\ album. Miss Sorrels's performance comes on the heels of l~st Friday's successful gig by ••Rat,\ who had just returned from l~ading a guitar workshop at J(en.t State University in Ohio with Andy Cohen, ragtime guitarist and pianist. ••Rat,\ who, a year ago was picking country guitar and banjo, has ventured into blues and ragtime guitar a Ia \Blues in the Bottle,\ \Going Down Slow,\ and Paul Geremia's ••something Different.\\' Fo-r the Union Cellege Cohen and Geremia fans, the report that those two superb performers will return to Lena's in the upcoming weeks comes as good news. One of the highlights of this More Corps Conttnued.from Page I . Peace Corps is seeking people with a wide variety of backgrounds. The call today continues to be for the liberal arts generalists - especially for those with summer job experience in such skills as farming, construction, business or nursing - but also for students who are majoring in the sciences, engineering, education, agriculture or business. Kiwwledge of a second language, especially -French or Spanish, continues to be most helpful. -nationally? To what extent are they behaving \inter-personally\ but· on a broader scale? How critical are \the cultun~l, military, historical, economic; territorial, religious,. ideologicill, and oth_!!r institutional factors? D<i th~y overwhelm the pei'!;onal? - Or is every response \personal\ in the sense that our ••person ... encompasses everything, that our ·~person\ represents at every moment the totality of all of our experience, our tr\lirting, and our judgment? We have. so many hang-ups over impasse. I am not sufficiently knowledgeable to understand all its psychoanalytical aspects. But impasse is certainly culturally abhorrent to us. We have been brought up to \win\ and to accept ••losin(', if it should become necessary, We must, however, land- on one side or the other: win or lose. We have been nursed on such catechisms as ••Go for broke\. ... Winner take all\ \Be a good loser\. We are the victor or the vanquished! Lefs try to appiy everything we know about the personal and the inter-personal to the inter- national. We are working against a short time fuse, so let's not fret over the theories ·of analysis. Instead, let's take the next step - of developing ways of putting this approach to inter-national impasse to an operational test, The Concordy Shopper The Best Of The N,ew \Our applications this year are dramatically up,\ Blatchford explained, ••but so are our requests from overseas! Right now, we are filling positions that cover mare than 360 ~eparate job categories. Regardless of what your background or interest may be, the chances are that you could put it to good use with the Peace Corps.\ Blatchford stressed that potential applicants need not possess or be expert in their skill or fluent in a second language. But they must be willing to learn. After acceptance and tentative assignment to country and job, Peace Corps Volunteers receive intensive professional, language and orientation training at centers in Hawaii, Puerto Rico or in the country of assignment. The Peace Corps now teaches some 180 different languages and dialects, as well as countless skills and specializations. Our social mores glorify winning artd acknowledge losing, but do not accept impasse. Even tlie words we give to impasse betray our discomfort with it: deadlock (how terrifying), stalemate (does stale still tneah horse urine?). A tie game is said to be like kissing your sister. We must have extra innings, not to resolve the conf.lict, but to remove the impasse. The world series must have an· odd nu:rnbe:r of games (with extra innings, when needed) to guarantee. against impasse. In football \sudden death\ is called for to resolve a tie game. Can Faustian man with his compulsive urge for victory ever settle for impasse'? Is there a role between winning and losing? Our present technology dictates that there must be. The capability of complete nuclear devastation, with time for equally destructive retaliation, makes global llllJJ'\~~~c In spite of our cultural distaste for tie games, in our inter~ personal and inter-group relationships we constantly settle for compromise and impasse, . usually without such acknowledgement. Our domestic political system has endured because of its tolerance of impasse between men, between sections- of ·the. country, between religious commitments, and even between ideologies. In Congress, the White House, State Capitols and City Halls, on Madison Avenue and Wall Street, even in pubs and taverns, reconciliation of diverse wills has been achieved, generally without bloodshed. We have often demonstrated that seemingly noxious and unyielding conflicts (and impasses) can be turned to productive results by fiberating and conc:iliating personal and inter-personal impediments to problem-resolution. With good leadership, a web of tensions can be made pliable and benign; frictions can become fruitful; and dissatisfactions can be blended into a crucible of agreements. This must be our faith and we must behave as if it is the true The Mountebanks will present participating are asked to attend \Tango\ by Slawomir Mrozek on a meeting tomorrow, January 27 Thursday, Friday, Saturday, in the Fox House lounge. For January 28, 29 and 30; and further information, contact February 4, 5, 6;. at 8:30 in Nott Randy Sutter, 377-1305. Bring The fdllowing items· have been tested by the Concordiensis Consumer ~Research Board, and have been found to be of the highest quality and the most reasonable priced: l) Gas Stop - enclosed in a packet much like a \Wash 'n Dry,\ it is actually a• handkerchief covered with petroleum jelly. It is unconditionally guaranteed to protect those who find themselves in clouds of tear gas, pepper gas, etc. It is sold whereever radical l)uttons may be purchased. Box of 20 - $4. 75. in playing the profs should contact Professor Wells at 346• 8751 ext. 370. * * * * Memorial. Tickets and twelve dollars ($12) as a deposit The student activities office is reservations are available at the for the overnight accomodations. coordinating a monthly calendar box office from 1-S p.m. * * * * ·Of events sponsored by school . * * * * Hillel is offering two weekly organizations. Any club or group Student Board workers are evening courses, beginning this interested in receiving a listing needed at West College. Ten week. Tonight will be t-he first for an event scheduled any time hours of work entitle the worker session of The ialmud, taught by - ln February should contact Barb to free Lunch- and Dinner. Rabbi Rosenblum in SS 115 Sherman at 370-2282 by Twelve hours of work, free from 8 to 9 p.m. Tomorrow night Thursday. Breakfast, Lunch· and Dinner. marks the beginning of a course See Don or Hal in the West in elementary Hebrew taught by * * * * College Dining Room. ~ Mr. Welkovics. The Hebrew * • \' • class will meet in SS 115 from Ski Stowe with Skidmore! The 8:15 to 9 p.m. on Wednesdays. Outing . Club is sponsoring a Anyone interested in either weekend of Alpine skiing at one course is welcome to attend. of the best ski resorts in the East. * · * * * Reservations for February 19-21 have been made for twenty people. Transportation will . be provided. All interested in The Faculty Basketball Team is still looking for games. Any, organized team ·that is interested 'Tickets for the Social Cofumittee•s Winter Weekend offering of Poco will be placed on sale this coming Monday .at Student Activities. Tickets are $3 for Union students in advance and $3.50 for all others, and at the door. The concert is scheduled for February 13, at midnight. 2) The Lance Rentzell Easy- open Raincoat - This garment is similar to a high quality trenchcoat except there are no buttons or zippers. A guaranteed favorite for nature lovers who so like the outdoors that they cannot wait to e.xpose themselves. $35 each. )2 The Jennifer Cavillei'i Death Doll - Direct from the novel Love Story, this doll, which has a varied, ••Now\ wardrobe which can be bought separately, is wound up and slowly dies from a blood diesease. It is so realistic that the figure seems to shrivel right before your eyes. A Jennifer Burial Kit will soon be available After completion of training Peace Cor.ps Volunteers serve abroad for a period of two years, during which they live in the style .of. the host country. Their housing, food, transportation and other out-of-pocket expenses are fully covered by the Peace Corps, with an additional $75 per month banked for them in the U.S. They also qualify for draft deferments for the period they are abroad. Students interested in additional details about Peace Corps opportunities abroad are invited to contact their local Peace Corps office or write to: Peace Corps, Department P, Washington, D,c. 20525. complete with mourners, 1\1\\ ....... ---- ..... -......-.~~=---t · · t · k 'd . STARTS ... mtms er, a JOC wt ower, a 1 · paisley coffin, and a tombstone WE. D that reads: \What can you say i •'* about a twenty-five year old girl who dies?\ $8.98 complete. 4) Limb Pipe This conversation piece is a used wooden leg that has been hollowed out; the foot becomes a bowl for the smoked substance,· and the calf and thigh are the stem. Simply insert your head 1 into the thigh and inhale; a; sureftre crowd pleaser. $47. I [THINK Of THE. POSIIIILITilS) \ •• A sax tllm of lhe strongest kind ••• rtoes as tar .as possible ••• \ IJACil:STAGE (1(RATED X) DAILY AT.1:30 .3:30 - 5:30 \\:\' 7:30 - 9:30 .. - . .... ~ .. . ..... LUIGI'S RESTAURANT SPECIALIZING IN Italian· American Food 1125 BARRETT ST. Schenectady OJ 6-974-i Enjoy Sizzling Steeks and Chops Visit Our Codteil Bar

PAGE 4 CONCORDIENSIS, JAN. 26, 1971 . - .. Concordy Sports ~ ' .. last Second Jumper Lifts Frosh Lead Grapplers . . . . . Over Hobart, 24·12 ·C·. ·a.r·. ·d. ·s· . ·0. ve .. r Hoop·· .,. 71-70 . On~'s:.M':'ELGa<Del . . • grapplers upped their dual meet by MARK SHUGOLL Union basketball fortunes received a stunning setback on Saturday night as Wesleyan University shocked the Garnet, 71-70, with a game-winning last second basket. The loss put an end to Union's ten-game winning skein and upped the Cardinals slate to 5-3. Bruce Hearey provided the heroics by swishing a 25~foot­ shot with two seconds showing on the clock to· end the Garnet's amazing victory streak before one of the largest croweds in Union basketball history. The standing-room only throng was estimated at 2,800, filling all available bleacher space and , spilling over onto the press balcony and the running track behind both baskets. The teams battled on even terms throughout most of the first half until the Dutchmen came up with a cold . shooting . nand, and Wesleyan took advantage opening up a 43-36 halftime lead. Union tried to come back in the second' half but was held off by a torrid shooting Cardinal team. Finally, with 7:21 remaining in the game, Dave Shames found the range from the comer to deadlock the score at 59 all. Sharnes connected on two free throws to give Union a lead of 69- 65 with l :52 remaining, but Joe , Summa again brought Wesleyan to within a buckiet when he somehow hit on art incredible twisting desperation shot. Jim Tedisco then dribbled the clock down to the 54 second inark before being fouled. The junior could manage only one ·Of two . foul shots to give Union a 70-67 lead. Fourteen seconds later, substitute Bob Alevaya connected from the corner for his only basket of the game, bringing the visitors to within one point. Wesleyan got the ball back on a Union turnover but · Summa Track Routs Mohawk; MillroSe Invites Relay The Union College track team accomplished the expected last Thursday night, vanquishing a hapless squad from Mohawk Valley Community College by a lop-sided 74-26 score. The Dutchmen captured eight out of a possible twelve firsts in registering the impressive triumph. Games. An invitation to participate in the meet is roughly equivalent to a basketball team's being invited to compete in the N.l.T. Such nationally known teams as Villanova, Adelphi, and Temple will be featured in the relay event. On Saturday, the enrire team journeys to Ithaca to compete in the Cornell -Invitational Track and Field Meet. record to 4.-0 with a 2+12 victory missed from the outside with 21 over winless Hobart. Freshmen seconds to play. The Garent's filled eight of th~ ten Geoff Walker rebounded and weight classes, and again all was immediately fouled. winning wrestlers were frosh. Walker missed the key one and Remaining urtbeaten were AI one a~d, after a j~mp ball~ . the Calabro, Mark Zullo, and Howie Cardu.1als agam . game.d Benedict, ail with 6-() records. po~s_ess10n and . called hme out, · Calabro, ll8, recorded his flfth trallmg 70-69 Wtthl2 sec~nds to go . .straight pin at 4:46. Zt,tllo, 126, Summa took the mbol,lnds decisioned his man 8-6, and pass and fired c~oss co~rt . to heavyweight Benedict notched H~arey W~o flung mthe wmrung his first pin of the year at 3:41. pomts as tlme ran out. Fred Lanes, wrestling at 134 in The last second dr~m~tics place of the inJured Len ?ve.rs.hadowed a bnlhant Solomon, droppe.d a 5-l md1v1dual performance by decision. The Garnet came back Union's Tom Bacher. The as \the Greek\ Jon Andreadakis, sophomore hit for 32 points, 20 made his offi~ial varsity debut a of those coming jn the first half when he connected on his first . '74. · eight shots in a row. Bacher also Ho·op~rs Win Seuent-h pulled in 11 rebounds. Tedisco tallied 20 points despite a dismal five for 19 shooting performance from the field. Shames added nine points, Mike Doyle seven, and Walker two. by JAY HOBART Wesleyan received a fans as they topped the Wesleyan tremendous team effort and great yearlings 81-57 at Memorial help from a depleted bench. Field House. The win upped the Summa led four double figure Garnet's record to 7-I,. while the scorers with 18 points, while Cardinals dropped their fourth The Union freshman cagers started off Saturday .night on a pleasant note for Gamet hoop Hearey had 13, George Fenton decision in seven games. 12, and Walford I I. The outcome. was never in The Cardinals pulled out the doubt as the Dutchmen clearly ball game without their star outclassed Wesleyan. Union center Jim Aiken, who sprained rolled to a 42-30 halftime lead his ankle in the pre-game and the Cardinals never made it warmups. The 6' 5\ junior leads close. his club in scoring and Union displayed a balanced rebounding, and set a school-- attack with five men finishing in rebounding record versus the double figures. AI Westbrook Garnet last season. 10-2 Union lead all scorers with 19 points, returns to action Friday evening while Tom Combs added 16 and when they travel to St. Lawrence. Stan O'Brien threw in 12. The following· night the Gamet Herb Reichenbach and Bill are entertained by Queens' Carmody rounded out the University of Kingston, Ontario. scoring with 10 points each. Steve Burton lead Wesleyan's Tim McCabe and Mike Rich were the stellar performers for the Garnet. The fiery McCabe anchored the victorious two-,mile relay team. recorded the fastest leg in the mile relay, and scored a stunning upset in the 600 yard run. In the latter race, the sophomore just edged out All- American Rick Jaszczak in 1:17.4. Coffin, Powerful Genevans Splash Swimmers, 62-51 attack with 16 markers. The Gamet have eight games remainirtg and appear to have a winning season in the bag. Coach Bill Scanlon will take his team to Albany State Saturday where the Gamet will face the Danes' by GEORGE RAIN yearlings. · ~oe'd. one · by setting back his opponent 7-5 in the 142 weight class, despite a penalty for a vicious cross-face: · In the 150 class, Bill Benedict upped his individual record to 4- 2 with a win by default. He was leading his·opportent 11-l in the second pt;,riod. whep the Hobart grappler called- it· quits. Penn Sheldon was decisioned in the 158 class, 7-5, . but then Tracy luch, .. l67, scored his second -win in a row with a 6-3 decision. In the 177 bout, Pat Wardell dropped . his first dual meet match, 6-4, to bring .his overall record to 4-2, Gary Morris, wrestling 190, lost 7-5 for his second straight loss after winning his first four matches. Tomorrow the -wrestlers travel to Dartmouth to meet the team they .previously mastered in winning the Albany State Tournament earlier this season. .This Saturday, at 2:30 p.m. in Alumni Gym, the matmen meet tough Kings Point in the first home match smce early December. Mid-Town BARBER \\ SHOP. - 377-4010 By Appointment 515 Union St. ' 66 AUSTIN Mini850CC Body, Engine; excellent condition, needs paint, 35-40 M.P.G., New Machine, Workshop manual; 12 Volt · Battery; $600 or best offer J.72-S173 . Mike Rich, who is under the tutelage of the track coach of the Austrian National Team, tied his own school record in the high jump. The junior cleared 6' 6\ out-distancing his nearest competitor by a foot. Rich, incidentally, has set his sights on a 7' jump before he graduates. Paced · by distance star Bob Coffin, the powerful Hobart swimming team took first place in nine of the thirteen events as it beat the Union varsity 62-51 Saturday at Geneva. Co-captain Burt Yankiver and sophomores Steve Hill and Alex Bodenstab provided the Garnet with their only individual winners. Yankiver won the 200 freestyle with the good time of I :55 .6. Hill copped the individual medley in the time of 2:24, and Bodenstab swam to a 2:38.6 clocking in his speciality, the breaststroke. Union's final victory of the meet. Their time was 3:32.6, another best so far this season. The loss dropped Union's record to 2.;2, The next meet is Saturday at 2:30 at Foote Pool, as the Garnet host a tough Kings Point squad in their first home meet since December. The COFFEEHOUSE presents ROSALIE SORRELS Bruce Mathias, Jerry Cuffy, Bill Clayton, and Dick Thickens were also outstanding in the victory .. Mathias led a trio of freshmen across the tape in the 50 yard dash. The speedster out,. leaned team-mates Cuffy and Skip Jameison at the finish. Cuffy and Jameison also finished one-two in the long jump, leaping 21' 9\ and 20' II\ respectively. Pole-vaulter Clayton, who received little attention last year as second man to Union record- holder Grey Watkins, cleared a career best of 12' 6\ to take his· specialty. The final Union winner was junior Dick Thickens, who came up with an excellent toss of 44' 11;4 in the shot put. This Friday, the mile relay team, composed of Steve Wood, AI Prysunka. McCabe, and Jaszczak; will travel to New York City's Madison Squan Garden to compete in the Millrose Hobart's Hayes . touched out senior Dave Seward in the 50 . free, as they each turned in a .:23.1. It was Seward's best time of the year. But other strong Dutchmen performances including co-captain Mike Horwath's second in the butterfly, not normally one of his events - were overshadowed by Statesman Coffin. The Albany Academy alumnus won both distance vents with fantastic times, an J.l :52,3 in the 1000 and a 5:25 in the 500 freestyle event. The Garnet freestyle relay team, back together in a meet after last week's layoff. won again, for Remarking on the prospects for the meet, Coach Bob McMurray gave his squad little chance for a victory: .. Kings Point is too strong. We'll never be in the meet.\ FRIDAY NIGHT- IN THE RATHSKELLAR 11 P.M. (AFTER \TANGO\) Absolutely FREE NIAMA BIANCHI'S RES7AUR.ANT 1135 Barrett St. Real Italian .Food Cooked · To Order We Cater To Students The Friendliest Place in Town OPEN TO 3 A.M. FRI.· aJid SAT.

his a to 4- was the the win his ning in tate son. . tn It . • •• Founded 111 Union ·Coliese 1877 VOLUME 109, NUMBER 24 SCHENECTADY, NEW YORK. JANUARY 29, 1971 Price Twenty Cents . . - .. . \ Reuenue Sharing Marchi Endorses by l»ETER DICKERMAN. of justice should be established to end the harmful \Balkanization\ Favors Present Calendar Senate Lets Vote Stand, John Marchi, lea(,ling New York Coll$ervative, tol(,i a convocation audience Tuesday night that the American federal system of .government- \cannot survive another decade\ without a basic change in the preseot mode of revenue distribution. concerning the administration of by HOWARD STONE caused the Senate to ~eriously law .. On the subject of foreign The Student Senate meeting consider voiding the elections for affairs, Marchi stated that the Tuesday night, di·scussed the third time. However, after United States · has certain problems of class :elections and considerable debate on the unavoidable international calendar change, as well as the alternatives, it was decided that responsibilities apd he attacked issue of co-ed dorms. the Freshman, Sophomore and so-called \neo-.isQlationists.\ Elections held last week for Sellior class election results be In response to a question class representatives, under the allowed to stand, primarily regarding campus unrest, auspicies of the Senate proved because the committees on which Senator Marchi stated that while once again that the student body representatives must serve have college students should be treated doesn't seem to be interested in been unable to meet while as adults, society must intervene who represents them. The waiting for the four members to on the campus when dissent so_phomores' turnout of 34% was be chosen. Marchi, who is a State Senator representing Staten Island, noted that concepts involving sophisticated intergovernmental relations have come into use only in the past two decades, prior to which time there had · been virtually no coordination among different levels of gove:rnment. Within the New York Senate, Marchi, as Chairman of ~ the Committee on the City of New York, speci~lizes in the field of intergovernmental cooperation. expresses itself \criminally\. the largest of any class. This The Junior class presented a . special problem, because not Swimmer .. Speaks Out On Beards In his . talk, entitled Oownplays Ivy League ·Standards .. Responsive Federalism,'' Many 'members of Union's Senator Marchi stressed the basketball team have new importance of new revenue haircuts. Likewise, freshmen are measures. _He pointed out that being told to get haircuts and while two-thirds of the tax shorten their sideburns, which, in revenue collected within New some cases, are less than an inch York State goes to the federal below the ~arlobe. Coach government, the state and local Scanlon -is not involved in this governments maintain direct apparent scourge of his yearlings; responsibility for the delivery of Coach Walters is. services. Therefore, he eoncluded The situation is reversed on the that \We are facing our problems swimming team. At the with a serious disequilibrium in beginning of this season, Coach revenue.\ McMurray hinted to his team President Nixon's recently participants that they should get announced revenue-sharing plan ' ·haircuts; they simply ignored was endorsed in the following him. If McMurray had enforced terms: ''The President's program any standard to that em·ct, he or a variant of it .... should be wouldn't have a swimming team. adopted at the earliest possible \There's only one reason we're moment.\ Marchi saw revenue- here - to learn, not to swim! sharing as ooe of a series of When a sport interferes with events which has encouraged a your ·learning or your general swing back toward local outlook on thingS, then it's your governmen4ti· authority. As an responsibility to straighten things example of this trend, the out (in terms .of priorities).\ Senator cited public support for. These are the words of senior the decentralization of the New Burt Yankiver, one of our star Y'ork City public school system. swimmers whose attitude typifies By such methods, ·he indicated that of our swimming team in that the institutions of general. He's got a moustache government can become more and goatee as well as almost reponsive to popular will. shoulder-length hair. His view of Senator Marchi, who Was the Coach McMurray's acceptance Republican-Conservative can• of his hair is that McMurray didate in the 1969 New York would rather keep the team City mayoralty election, together and happy than spoil commented upon a wide variety what bas turned out to be a good of issues during the course of his thing because of some useless speech and the subsequent ' rule. audience questioning.. He· I asked Burt the o.bvious: what asserted that a state department would he do if the coach had The Mountebanks will present \Tango\ by Slawomir Mrozek on Thursday, Friday, Saturday, January 28, 19 and 30; and February 4, 5, 6, at 8:30 in Nott Memorial. Tickets and reservations are .available at the box office from 1-5 p;m. enforced a short-haired; cleanq s),laven edict? _ He replied, ''Spend the next few weeks skiing!\ . He added, \Union College . athletics is not big business. We're not in the Big Ten or the Ivy League. We shouidn't be coached 'as such. As soon as a Coordinators of the second annual Intercollegi3te Photography Exhibit, invite students to participate in a display of meaningful photographic expression. This year's tbeme will be 1 '1971 - This is Our World.'' · The aim flf the exhibition will be to -demonstrate to the public the creativity and artistry of the photographer and to serve as an outlet for his self-expression and inilividualism. The exhibition will be h~ld -t the State University of New York AgricUltural and Technical Colll!ge at Cobleskill {rom April 4th to April 30th. The exhibit will be open to the public and there is a ten dollar ($10) entry fee. SubsU.ntial awards will be given · to the exhibits judged to be the best by a panel of professional photographers. sport i$ no longer fun and enjoya\>le and rewarding to the individUal, it loses its value.\ Burt foresees the ultimate downfall and termination of team sports in small rolleges without athletic scholarships, unless things are changed dfastically. He cites evidence of this at Union in the ever- decreasing participation in try- outs for teams, especially by bearded football buffs who are outlawed from the team; at the same time, he con~inues, skiing is becoming a favorite avocation. and the gym at Union is crowded daily with students working out on their own. Coach McMurray allows his swimmers to grow their hair and beards to their hearts' content. As a result, Union's swimmers, at , least, do not feel alienated in any way because they are on a team, as may very well be the ·case in a situation like that of basketball teams. Rabbi To Spe·ak T omo.rrow On Jewish Communal Life Rabbi Ronald Hoffberg, of the Jewish Theological Seminary Rabbinical School, will speak tomorrow night at 8 p.m. in SS 115, in a program sponsored by Hillel. Hoffberg will discuss contemporary Jewish communal life in the United States. Several Nazi propaganda films including \The Triumph of the Will'' covering the Nuremberg Rallies and \Conquest of Poland\ will be presented in conjunction with the discussion. Next Monday, February 1, at 8 p.m. in SS 115, Mr. Shaul Peer of tpe Kibbutz Aliya desk in New York City will speak on the Israeli Kibbutz. A movie on Kibbutz life will be . part of his presentation and information about Kibbutz and study programs in Israel will be distributed. The kibbutz in Israel is a unique experimental society aimed at enabling · individuals and the community to realize their highest human potential through daily sharing of life and Work. Members of kibbutzim engage in agricultural, industrial, and educational projects, placing high value on labor as a form of selffulfillment. The kibbutz movement has made significant strides in developing new forms of family, # community, and Jewish life. fulfillment and the satisfaction of meaningful achievement. There are several programs designed for students interested in work-study programs in IsraeL The Kibbutz Aliya Desk, Peer's organization, represents all the kibbutz mo¥ements in Israel, operating as a clearing house, helping applicants to select the proper kibl)utz program. only had very few people voted, but no one had filed a petition for the job. As yet, no decision has been reached on what action will be taken. A committee was - formed to investigate possible reforms of the election system, with preliminary suggestiQns ranging from having one central polling place to eliminating elections altogether. Once again, . the question of calendar revision was bro•.1ght up, this time witli most senators reporting results of informal floor polls. A general senate vote was taken on the two options for next year: staying as we are now, favOFed by an 18 to 10 vote, or moving to a split three system. No decision on the issue has been reached by the Administration, and these results will be used as a partial indication of student opinion on the matter. In other major business, the results of the women's questionaire on co-ed dorms, printed in Concordiensis Tuesday, were discussed. A question about whether men would answer a similar questionaire was raised, and then tabled. To put a damper on several rumors 'that seem to have been circulating, it was asserted that the Administration has made no decisions and has not ruled 6ut any of the possible options that have been mentioned. A statement supporting the right of all students to appeal directly to the Committee on Student Standing in cases where they are requested to leave for academic reasons was passed, as was the constitution of the newly formed Spanish c1ub. Finally, it was announced that the Curricular Affairs Committee has finished its discussion on the foreign language requirement and its report will be out within the next two weeks. '_:;:~~!~\~~- :. ~~. >\ ,. C.U Mr. Miller, 134-5319 or Miss Murray 234•5644 for further details, . or write the Second Annual Intercollegiate Photography Exhibition, State University of New York Agricultural and Teehn,ieal College, Cobleskill, New. York 11034. Some ldhbutzim ate traditional and ke~p kosher, while others are not. Israeli kibbutzim offer the opportunity to participate in kibbutz life and work to any Americans who seek personal HEAP BIG FILM ISSUE INSIDE

Muqin& Editor James E. Stewart NewsEdltot Louis S. Snitkoff AIIIIOC.. NflWI Ytor Peter Dickerman FeatUres Editor Daniel Schochet .. , ..... Editor DouaWong Budd•Mutaeer Uoyd Bims Alit. Ind-.. MaDqen DougTosh Doug Bin~ National Adv. Mp. Mark Shulman Sports I'Altor WilliamJ. Holleran .\Ill. Sports Editor MarkShugon EciMGn Elllerld WiUiamOuzet Henry G. Fein Centribulllall'.clltciJ Richard L. Knuaer Pltotopepll)' Edltar JodySaslow Alit. ~piiJ Edlton Charlcl Long. O.veConrey ST~FF: Patty Sipe, Les Goldman, Jay Hobart, Marc Lust, Harris Samuels, Judy Sternbach, Joseph Achenbaum, David Conti, Greg Hamlin, Michael Hollander, George Kaplan, Robert A. Levine, Mike Meserole, Thomas Morante; Ruth Morton, Ba_rbara McDo~ald, Tom Mitchell, Len Solomon, George Bain, Marty' Berman, Reid Russel, Gail Goodman, Mark Zubres ~nd Michael Rosenberg. . l'u!\isbed T~ys and i:ridPYs durin$ the SGhool year by the studeat body or· :!;10n ~oue.,. Sche.~dy. 11!· Y .• Nauonal Adwrti!dng Representative, .National ~ltonal 1\do;er:IIJI!D& Se.rw:c. Inc., ('olk:gc Puhlilhcn; RCP!el!Cntativc 360 l.c~lnJ!Ion 1\w: .. N. Y.C: f'A!Ilorial oflic:e, ~ Gym, U11ion COllc:ll', Publkation om 23 .a:. The Wo~ Pu~IIOIIS. n1 Slate Stm:t., Schcncc:tady. N.Y. 1001-; 346- 56. f\!ercd m_ the SChcDCCtady JI<ISI oll\ICC u Second Clau Mail Maner, Subscnpt10n 20 c:enls a eopy. S6 \ year delivered anywhc~~: in the Un~ Sta~e;~o Unworthy Contro,versy The current controversy about the right of athletes to wear the length of hair and beards they wish would be funny if it were not so pathetic and possibly indicative of a general attitude toward free thought among some of the members of the athletic department. Union's athletes and athletics will no doubt be better off without the marine · corps type rigidity now apparently fostered in that department. And perhaps the next director of athletics will be able to answer criticism by responding to the issues and not the personality of the reporter. In choosing a successor to Coach Flood the most important parties are, of course, the other coaches, and the athletes. A good start could be made. toward updating the department if the students involved have an instrumental role in choosing a new .athletic director; and everyane involved bears in mind the overall educational goals of Unicin, and the current position of athletics here. lack of Interest · Last w~&k·s class elections clearly point out that the days of rough and tumble political battles for class offices have gone the way of \block U\. haircu!s and the _haz~ng of freshmen. The latter two now defunct fraditions are' not missed but the demise of class officers by default is not a step in the right direction. Perhaps the fault is not entirely in the lack of interest apparently shown in the elections, but is also due to a lack of understanding of the function of a class representative because that role was not publicized by either the elections committee or the Student Senate. The class representatives as members of the committee on Committees exert a great deal of influence on the choosing of members of student, and student-faculty committees. This is an important role in a college professing to be headed toward some idea of a freer university, and the lack of interest shown in the positions hopefully does not indicate a similar lack of interest in the future of the educational process. Dear Editor, fve been reading your recent articles and letters on the subject of beards for jocks, and felt my own case worthy of mention. I was on the Illinois all-state basketball team for five yeats (8th grade thru 12th), and averaged 56 points and ~9 rebounds per game during my senior year. (earning the newspaper nickname of ·~gatling gun Veres'') My persona~; highlights were my 118 point11 against Woodbrook and my 41 rebounds against Marymount. In the state aU-star game I scored 73 points and was voted most valuable player in a close 73-71 overtime victory. After turning down ·several lucrative professional offers, I finally decided to enroll at Union on an academic scholarship. l came to Union with high hopes of founding an Eastern basketball empire, and walked onto the floor the first day with an open mind. I was bitterly disappointed. Not only did the coach insist that I wouldn't be allowed to play on the varsity (citing some obscure technicality), but he kept babbling something about me shaving off my goatee. When I informed him that he was crazy, he became unreasonably upset, and ordered me off the court. As I'm sure you can readily see, the stupid policy of not allowing athletes to wear beards at .Union has cost .this school a real gem. All I can say to the coaches is \tough luck\ as that's the last chance they'll ever have to get me to play. Bob \Gatling Gun\ Veres \' .... \' \' To The Editor, In an intetview on WR UC, departing athletic director Flood remarked on my recent article Beards: Bummer For Jocks. ~\The Concordiensis article is completely wrong. Leap in' Leiderm(l.n has got problems ... That (the hair· issue) hasn't concerned me that much because I don't have any friction on the squads. Leapin' Leiderman is not a member of the athletic program, and I think if you talk with the athletes of the teams right now, there is no problem. We're having the most' success in athletics at Union that we've had in years,... so I don't see any problem there at all, except (for) some guy (who) wants to write an article in the Concordiensis and the Concordiensis people A Modest Proposal For Seniors For. The Speech Is .The Thing by RAY KRISE JR index, pure and simple. The kid One of the big things about with the highest cum got to speak college is the maintenance of for the seniors at com- traditions; in fact, that seems to mencement. That, in this day of be the public's main conception people misunderstanding eachi of the worth of a bachelor's other and hating each other · degree - not that you've spent because of these mis- four years screwing off, getting understandings, hardly seems to stoned, and going to Skidmore, be the way to run a railroad. but that you've spent four years What I propose, therefore, is a pursuing an education with its contest wherein all interested roots going back to Plato and seniors would submit their Socrates. In ~ way, the public is potential speeches to some sort corre~t - tf a degre: means of panel (although, God, how I anythmg more than s~mply a .~hate panels or committees), penance of four y~ars, tt m:ans. probably best composed of all four yea~s of askmg questwns seniors in the Student Senate, and makmg changes, an attempt plus members of the English at ~etting the bf:st educ~tion Depa:tll1ent, 1 plus Kurt Vonl}egut posstble, a!ways b~mg co~mzant Jr, and, possibly; Spiro Agnew's of c~angmg phllosophtes in ghostwriter . (if he likes educatiOn. . something, that automatically . Wha_t all thts ~om~ous-ass rap eliminates it). From this panel ts leadmg up to IS thts: I have a would come the selection of the pro~~sal for a c~a.nge in a Union particular graduating class's vale- traditiOn, a tradttJOn most other dictorian/ valedictory address ta- schools also practice. Since the daa! ' dawn of rn.;tn. the valedictorian Admittedly, this proposal of the semor class has been doesn't have much to do with chosen on the basis of grade · education per se, either here at Union or anywhere else. But it does, I think, serve two emerging and vital concepts of both life and education · of the approaching millenium - first, that grades really don't mean very much except to the moss- backed graduate schools; and second, that communication - true communication - is far more important than symbolism. This changing of the method of selecting the commencement valedictorian is obviously not a very big thing, really. It certainly doesn't · rank with coeducation, elimination of grades, the elimination of the comps, or the retaining of Dennis Peskin - these are all thing we might have, someday. But merely because something is rather minor doesn't mean, it should be overlooked. There is no aspect of life too trivial to grok to its fullness. A valedictory address should be just as grokable as Jackson's Gardens. '. PAGE2 CONCORDIENSIS, JAN. 29, 1971 want to allow anything to go in it that Wants to be put in it.\ The key words used by Flood are \the athletes on the te~ms right now.\ If he were not (directly or indirectly) concerned in any · way with making discriminatory policies that determine who these athletes are then it is true that Mt. Flood would have no problem. However, he shows a callous, even pompous disregard for the numerous students excluded from the \Athletic Program,'' excluded solely because they would refuse to become standardized conformists, like soldiers, with neat hair and clean- shaven faces. I congratulate Mr. Flood for attaining \the most success that we've had in years.;, Unfortunately, many alienated· potential- ·athletes, particularly disenchanted upperclass, would be gridders, are frankly happy to see the man go: (Coach EverUng, rumored as· Flood's Head Football Coach replacement, won't exactly strike joy in the long-haired Union Athlete's heart, either.) At any rate,. I look for a more progressively open-minded athletic director to replace Mr. Flood. J only hope this man will recognize that any. further discrimination on the part of our Athletic Department is and will continue to he a problem at Union College. (Bruce Allison, rumored for· the post, is on record, as lacrosse· coach,· as being unopposed to bearded, hairy athletes.) . . Leapin' Leiderrnan \' * * \' Dear Sir: This is in response to a letter that the Hillel at Union College sent to you in regard to your nation's treatment of Jews. I feel that humanitarianly our Hillel people have a point, but I would rather look at things in my own way. First of all it seems to me that any minority in any country, if it is not able to compromise and assimilate itself into the · majority, is leaving itself open to persecution by the power structure which represents the majority opinion. My definition of majority is not which side has the most votes, but which side can . muster the most votes, by hook or by crook, or fairly, though ra;·ely that. happens1 if ever. Obviously in your country your power structure is in the majority position, and until the oposing forces in your nation can muster up enough of their own· forces to overthrow you, your rille is law. It is the same there as it is in America; we just dress differently and· speak with different fork in tongue, and different tongue in cheek. Therefore, if you follow my logic, you have a perfect right to persecute anyone you want, and are f{ee to do so, as long as they can't stop you. But I must protest this dis- crimination in the persecutory IT'S NOT TO LATE TO LEARN ABOUT WINE. Join Our Wine ·Tasting Club Moffett's Liquor Store (Across The Field) 1505 VanVranken Ave. powers that you wield. If it is a basic facet if the Marxist theory that religion is the opiate of the masses, then why this persecution of the Jews, when Zoroasterians, Hindus, Moslems, Buddhists, (:opts, and even, God forbid, Christians are free of it. . For Christ's sake, We :christians have just as much tight to be persecuted aJ the Jews! In fact I think we are probably more of a thorn in your .side than they are, since we consider your atheistic brand of Communism to be more terrible than the Jews probably consider itto be. My God, if you don't believe it, you ought to listen to the radio over here on Sunday Morning. Your regime is not a favorite .of the :Qible belt. And if aU this pe~;secution of Soviet Jewry is racially motivated, you a-re again guilty of tokenistic persecution. My knowledge of Russia contains the fact that there are thousands of other races living there just waiting to be persecuted. Why keep them waiting? If you are going to do anything at aU, you might as well go the whole hog at it. If you must persecute, why draw the line at the Jews? What - makes them so special that they receive your undivided attention, , while all the rest of your national minorities sit twiddling their thumbs, ·bored that the Fatherland doesn't even seem to notice them? Anyway the Jews are very good at drumming up sympathetic support in situations like this. In the Western world Hitler•s treatment of the Jews is considered to be more awful than the Inquisition 7 ·the Reign of Terror, or even Papa Joe's treatment of almost everyone who stepped out of line, even though more people died in those ventures than in the concentration camps. Their trick, I feel, was not to discriminate, as Hitler did, but to persecute as if persecution were going out of style,. and since persecution is quickly becoming passe, 1 suggest that you do while the doin's good, or· else you can never tell what might happen. Who knows? The Jewish conspiracy may becaome a reality. And you know those Jews, they know a good thing when they see it. Thoughtfully yours, Alexei, George Wayman, '72 SCHAFFER LIBRARY Union College BOOK SALE Feb.2 Commencing 2 p~in. BRING YOUR DATE Entertainment 7 Nights Jackets Required 1617 Union St. . Sch'dy t. ~

Mana&~nc Editor James E. Stewart News Editor Louis S. Snitkoff Aaoe. Ntw~ Editor Peter Dickerman Features Editor Daniel Schochet Layout Editor Doug Wong BU~~neu Mauaer Lloyd Dims Aat. Buiinaa Manqera DougTosh Doug Binder National Adv. Mp. Mart Shulman Sportl EcUtor WiUiam J. Holleran Asst. Sports FAUtor Mark Shugoll Edilora Emeriti William Ollzer Henry G. Fein ContributiDC Editor Richard L. Kramer Photop'llpb:r Editor Jody Saslow Alit. Photolfapb:r Editors Charles Long Dave Conrey ST~FF: Patty Sipe, Les Goldman, Jay Hoban, Marc Lust, Harris Samuels, Judy Stembach, Joseph Achenbaum, David Conti, Greg Hamlin, Michael Hollander, George Kaplan, Robert A. Levine, Mike Meserole, thomas Morante, Ruth Morton, Barbara McDo~a.Jd, Tom Mitchell, Len Solomon, George Bain, Marty Berman, Reid Russel, Gail Goodman, Mark ZubPes and Michael Rosenberg. Publis~ Tue.od~ys and fridoY. durin~ the school year hy the student ·body ot ~_!'ton ~ nllel!l'. ScfM:~dy. N.Y .. Naticmal Advertising Repn:5Cnlativc. Natianal \\~ll?'IIonal Advert•s!ng Sc.m~. Inc., College Publimen; Rcp,.,.,ntative, 360 l.cxmgton Ave., N. Y.C: ~tturial office, Old Gym, U11inn College, Publication Omt:c, The WorJd Pub~tton._ 771 State Street .. Schenectady, N.Y. 12307, 346- ~lSt.. ~nten:d m the Scheoec:tady post. office as Second Class Mail Matter, Suhocnpticm 20 a:nt5 a copy. S6 a year dehvercd anywhen: in the Uni~ Sta~. Unworthy Controversy The current controversy about the right of athletes to wear the length of hair and beards they wish would be funny if it were not so pathetic and possibly indicative of a general attitude toward free thought among some of the members of the athletic department. Union's athletes and athletics will no doubt be better off without the marine corps type rigidity now apparently fostered in that department. And perhaps the next director of athletics will be able to answer criticism by responding to the issues and not the personality of the reporter. In choosing a successor to Coach Flood the most important parties are, of course, the other coaches, and the athletes. A good start could be made toward updating the department if the students involved have an instrumental role in choosing a new athletic director, and everyone involved bears in mind the overall educational· goals of Union, and the current position of athletics here. lack of Interest Last week's class elections clearly point out that the days of rough and tumble political battles for class offices have gone the way of \block U\ haircuts and the hazing of freshmen. The latter two now defunct traditions are not missed but the demise of class officers by default is not a step in the right direction. Perhaps the fault is not entirely in the lack of interest apparently shown in the elections, but is also due to a lack of understanding of the function of a class representative because that role was not publicized by either the elections committee or the Student Senate. The class representatives as members of the committee on Committees exert a great deal of influence on the choosing of members of student, and student-faculty commit.tees. This is an important role in a college professing to be headed toward some idea of a freer university, and the lack of interest shown in the positions hopefully does not indicate a similar lack of interest in the future of the educational process. Dear Editor, I've been reading your recemt articles and letters on the subject of beards for jocks, and felt my own case worthy of mention. I was on the IHinois all-state basketball team for five years (8th grade thru 12th), and averaged 56 points and 29 rebounds per game during my senior year. (earning the aewspaper nickname of \gatling gun Veres\) My personal highlights were my 118 points agaiast Woodbrook and my 41 rebounds against Marymount. In the state all-star game I scored 73 points and was voted most valuable player in a close 73-71 overtime victory. After turning down several lucrative professional offers, I finally decided to enroll at Union on an academic scholarship. I came to Union with high hopes of founding an Eastern basketball empire, and walked onto the floor the first day with an open mind. I was bitterly disappointed. Not only did the coach insist that I wouldn't be allowed to play on the varsity (citing some obscure technicality), but he kept babbling something about me shaving off my goatee. When I informed him that he was crazy, he became unreasonably upset, and ordered me off the court. As I'm sure you can readily see, the stupid policy of not allowing athletes to wear beards at Union has cost this school a real gem. All I can say to the coaches is \tough luck\ as that's the last chance they'll ever have to get me to play. Bob \Gatling Gun\ Veres * * * * To The Editor, In an interview on WRUC, departing athletic director Flood remarked on my recent article Beards: Bummer For Jocks. \The Concordiensis article is completely wrong. Leapin' Leiderman has got problems ... That (the hair issue) hasn't concerned me that much because I don't have any friction on the squads. Leapin' Leiderman is not a member of the athletic program, and I think if you talk with the athletes of the teams right now, there is no problem. We're having the most success in athletics at Union that we've had in years,... so I don't see any problem there at all. except (for) some guy (who) wants to write an article in the Concordiensis and the Concordiensis people A Modest Proposal For Seniors For The Speech Is The Thing by RAY KRISE JR One of the big things about college is the maintenance of traditions; in fact, that seems to be the public's main conception of the worth of a bachelor's degree - not that you've spent four years screwing off, getting stoned, and going to Skidmore, but that you've spent four years pursuing an education with its roots going back to Plato and Socrates. In a way, the public is correct - if a degree means anything more than simply a penance of four years, it means four years of asking questions and making changes, an attempt at getting the best education possible, always being cognizant of changing philosophies in education. What all this pompous-ass rap IS leading up to is this: I have a proposal for a change in a Union tradition, a tradition most other schools also practice. Since the dawn of man, the valedictorian of the senior class has been chosen on the basis of grade index, pure and simple. The kid with the highest cum got to speak for the seniors at com- mencement. That, in this day of people misunderstanding each other and hating each other because of these mis- understandings, hardly seems to be the way to run a railroad. What I propose, therefore, is a contest wherein all interested seniors would submit their potential speeches to some sort of panel (although, God, how I • hate panels or committees), probably best composed of all seniors irt the Student Senate, plus members of the English Department, plus Kurt Vonnegut Jr, and, possibly, Spiro Agnew's ghostwriter (if he likes something, that automatically eliminates it). From this panel would come the selection of the particular graduating class's vale- dictorian/valedictory address, ta- daa! Admittedly, this proposal doesn't have much to do with education per se, either here at Union or anywhere else. But it does, I think, serve two emerging and vital concepts of both life and education of the approaching millenium - first, that grades really don't mean very much except to the moss- backed graduate schools; and second, that communication - true communication - is far more important than symbolism. This changing of the method of selecting the commencement valedictorian is obviously not a very big thing, really. It certainly doesn't rank with coeducation, elimination of grades, the elimination of the comps, or the retaining of Dennis Peskin - these are all thing we might have, someday. But merely because something is rather minor doesn't mean it should be overlooked. There is no aspect of life too trivial to grok to its fullness. A valedictory address should be just as grokable as Jackson's Gardens. PAGE 2 CONCORDIENSIS, JAN. 29, 1971 want to allow anything to go in it that wants to be put in it.\ The key words used by Flood are \the athletes on the teams right now.\ If he were n.ot (di~rectly or indirectly) concerned in any way with making discriminatory policies that determine who these athletes are then it is true that Mr. Flood wo11ld have no problem. However, he shows a callous, even pompous disregard for the numero11s st1:1dents excluded from the \Athletic Program,\ excluded solely becawse they would refuse to become standardized conformists, like soldiers, with neat hair and cleaR- shaven faces. I congratulate Mr. Flood for attaining \the most success that we've had in years.\ Unfortm:tately, many alienated potential athletes, partic1:1larly disenchanted upperclass, would be gridders, are frankly happy to see the man go. (Coach Everling, rumored as Flood's Head Footbal'l Coach replacement, won't exactly strike joy in the long-haired Union Athlete's heart, either.) At any rate, I look for a more progressively open-minded athletic director to replace Mr. Flood. I only hope this man will recognize that any further discrimination on the part of our Athletic Department is and will continue to be a problem at Union College. (Bruce Allison, rumored for the post, is on record, as lacrosse coach, as being unopposed to bearded, hairy athletes.) Leapin' Leiderman * * * * Dear Sir: This is in response to a letter that the Hillel at Union College sent to you in regard to your nation's treatment of Jews. I feel that humanitarianly our Hillel people have a point, but I would rather look at things in my own way. First of all it seems to me that any minority in any country, if it is not able to compromise and assimilate itself into the majority, is leaving itself open to persecution by the power structure which represents the majority opinion. My definition of majority is not which side has the most votes, but which side can muster the most votes, by hook or by crook, or fairly, though ra. ely that happens 1 if ever. Obviously in your country your power structure is in the majority position, and until the oposing forces in your nation can muster up enough of their own forces to overthrow you, your rule is law. It is the same there as it is in America; we just dress differently and speak with different fork in tongue, and different tongue in cheek. Therefore, if you follow my logic, you have a perfect right to persecute anyone you want, and are free to do so, as long as they can't stop you. But I must protest this dis- crimination in the persecutory IT'S NOT TO LATE TO LEARN ABOUT WINE. Join Our Wine ·Tasting Club Moffett's Liquor Store (Across The Field) 1505 VanVranken Ave. powers that you wield. If it is a basic facet if the Marxist theory that religion is the opiate of the masses, then why this persecution of the Jews, when Zoroasterians, Hindus, Moslems, Buddhists, Copts, and even, God forbid, Christians are free of it. For Christ's sake, We Christians have j1:1st as much right to be persecuted aJ the Jews! In fact I think we are probably more of a thorn in your side thaa they are, since we consider your atheistic brand of Communism to be more terrible than the Jews probably consider it to be. My God, if you don't believe it, you ought to listen to the radio over here on Sunday Morning. Your regime is not a favorite of the Bible belt. And if all this persecutiom of Soviet Jewry is racially motivated, you are again guilty of tokenistic persec1:1tion. My knowledge of Russia contains the fact that there are tho1:1sands of other races living there just waiting to be persecuted. Why keep them waiting? If you are going to do anything at all, you might as well go the whole hog at it. If you must persecute, why draw the line at the Jews? What makes them so special that they receive your undivided attention, , while all the rest of your national minorities sit twiddling their thumbs, bored that the Fatherland doesn't even seem to notice them? Anyway the Jews are very good at drumming up sympathetic support in situations like this. In the Western world Hitler's treatment of the Jews is considered to be more awful than the Inquisition, the Reign of Terror, or even Papa Joe's treatment of almost everyone who stepped out of line, even though more people died in those ventures than in the concentration camps. Their trick, I feel, was not to discriminate, as Hitler did, but to persecute as if persecution were going out of style, and since persecution is quickly becoming passe, I suggest that you do while the doin's good, or else you can never tell what might happen. Who knows? The Jewish conspiracy may becaome a reality. And you know those Jews, they know a good thing when they see it. Thoughtfully yours. Alexei, George Hayman, '72 SCHAFFER LIBRARY Union College BOOK SALE Feb.2 Commencing 2 p.m. BRING YOUR DATE Entertainment 7 Nights Jackets Required 1617 Union St. Sch'dy l r . 4) ' ; ') . I' \ ,~.., I t/'. • r I I• \01 ~'I ( I! ' (. : I .,,. j,. ' I 4 !~ •l' '!,. ,, I \' 'I l I Q I

1971 is a the rbid, .For be I of a are, tic you to on is of My the of just N'hy are you ion, the to ews up s is of ven as if of is tell a . ' Tr-ends ift· American Filin 1 ~~~o~~~!'~~r~.f~~~~~Eand tensiOn m the Am.-ncan film T .h B ·il . . 1 industry- The Sound of Music .. ·e . ·e·st ·F·I .. I·m·s of 1··970 syndrome came to a definitive · · · · · · · . · : . · . · · · . · · · halt when its last manifestations, Bud Cord, in flight gear,. aloft in the Astrodome in \Brewster McCloud.\ Paint Your Wagon and Dltrling LiU proved to be awesome box office failures. Multi-.million dollar musicals apparently no longer appealed to the public. Large, expensive extravaganzas in other film genres encountered a similar fate. CromweD reflected the box office beheading of historical dramas of British kings and queens. Tora, Tora, Tora Richard Zanuck's- attempt to follow in the footsteps of· his father Darryl. Zanuck (The Longest Day) proved to be a bigger bomb than any of those dropped in. the film. Several years ago, when the large-budgeted films were beginning Hieir decline, · The Graduate and Bo~e and Clyde were. exhibited, garnering unexpected 'but awesome. critical praise and fmancial success. The film .industry was shaken and abruptly caine to the realization that perhaps films did not need the.i:nsurance. of big stars or large budgets. Then along came Easy Rider; .unknown ac.tors, miniscule budget,, ad-libbed screenplay - but a major money- maker. Furthermore · the youth market that seemed to be a significant factor in the success of The Gr.aduate and Bonnie and Clyde ~rov~d to be the major CONCORDIENSIS, JA~. 29, 1971 PAGE 3 reason for Easy Rider's success. (Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Hollywood had discovered a new Kid, Midnight Cowboy, trend in films and immediately M* A*S*H, and Joe). Most of began to grind out derivative them were critical and financial Easy Rid~rs. disasters (Zabriskie . Point, The Overlapping and combining Strawberry Statement, Bloody With these youth-oriented fihns Mamma, Soldier Blue, The Magic were the message films. Youth Garden of Stanley Sweetheart, and adult alike were concerned R.P .M.). about the problems facing And so, at the end of 1970, all Americans -. the widened of the trends of the 1960's.. seemed generation gap, the youth to have outlived their ·popularity. culture, alienation, sexual For the first time in years of promiscuity and in the American film history no exploration of these social syndromes appeared insight. co~cer:ns an .unprecedented There were no bandwagons upon explicitness. erupted. Sex and which to jump. Hollywood violence · in all their e~ecutives were. aghast and manifestations were intricately frantically tried -to figure what detai'led in films. Some type of film the public wanted to filmmakers used them tastefully see. The two most fmancially or at least as a means for successful films of 1970 were the legitimate artistic expressio~. freshly unconventional (Sam Peckinpah~s The Wild M*A*S*H and Airport, the Bunch, Robert Altman's throwback to the Grand Hotel M* A*S*H, Mike Nichol's Catch- films of the '30's and '40's, 22, Arth1;1r Penn's .Little . Big replete with the all-star casts and ·Man). Others mad~ money, interweaving plot lines. Which of h~sed on blood, .gore, and sexual the two could be developed into perversion (Russ Meyers' Beyond a trend and could either film The VaHey of The DoDs). initi!lte a successful syndrome? The youth-market - message The leaders of the. industry didn't films were \in.\ Sonie were know. Their problem was literally cycle ftlms, while others complicated by (and to some followed the figurative youth- extent a result of) the economic market cycle. A few garnered inflation with which the country critical praise (Medium Cool, was burdened. Tight money They Shoot Horses, Don't They?, meant fewer films and less Butch Cassidy and The Sundance expensive ones at that. Kid, Mjdnight Cowboy, Then, in . December, 1970, M* A*S*H, Cateh-22, Five Easy Love Story opened in theaters to Pieces, and Little Big Man(. varied critical opinions, but Some. a.chieved box office success continued on Page 5 CONCORDIENSIS 1970 SPECIAL FILM ISSUE Film Haps, Film Series· Reviewed · · by MARK URMAN We all went through a stage when we thought that war stones and James Bond were the most exCiting and immediate film experiences. Then we read and watched sopt~ more ~nd, in many cases, our tastes changed. As soon as we laughed at a Chaplin or a Keaton film, we realized that the \Dead End Kids'' were not the height of comedy; as soon as we discovered the sophisticated romances of the thirties, we understood why critics found Doris' Day ftlms stale and flat. When we were finally exposed to great films, we could no longer he satisfied with the poor or even the mediocre. Perhaps this refining process - this development of a comparitive sense - is the key to film appreciation. A moviegoer may not he able to isolate the exact qualities which determine the. greatness of a Chaplin film, such as \The Gold Rush\ but at least he'll know that, for whatever reason, it's better than most comedies he's seen. But the necessary thing in developing this comparative sense is the exposure, and good films are hard to firid. Therefore if one ·glances ·through the entertainment section of the \New York Times\ and . looks at the art house revivals, he sees dozens of strange names - Renoir, Truffaut, DeSica, Felljni, Antonioni, Kurosawa, Bunuel, and so on. Most people know nothing more about these men than that they are \artists\; few people who live outside of New York City have ever gotten to see their films. Since many of these films are old, few are popular, and most are in a foreign language, these great men will forever remain strange and mysterious names to the larger public. But for those who do get to see a Renoir or a DeSica film, there is a change in perspective; these are the very films which give rise to a comparative sense. After one has seen .Renoils .\Grand Illusion\ most' war films grow pale by comparison. One realizes that \The Great Escape\ \Stalag 17\ \The Defiant Ones\ and, in short, most of the old favorites are cheap and inferior imitations. Although one may not be able to articulate just why ''Grand Illusion\ is a great film, it will be apparent to him that it is far superior to most other films. The Union College Film Series, under the direction of Mr. Peck (with suggestions by Mark Urman and Bob Levine) is therefore invah.1able to both Union students and the Schenectady cortlmunity. This series has already brought us Renoir's \Grand Illusion\ and '•1he Golden Coach\ and DeSica's \The Bicycle Thief' and \Two Women\ along with films by Chaplin, Keaton, Gdffith, and Eisenstein. Already there have been opponunities to le!!tn and to experience a change. The DeSica films, for instance, represent the triurtlph of rteo-realism in film. When we watch \The Bicycle TWef' and. \Two Women'', the screen and the audience seem to disappear and we are Watching life. When these films tell us .so simply and directly about the failure of experience and the shame of poverty, our reaction is real and deeply felt. Compare this to the neon~realistn of ''Midnight Cowboy\ a film in which authenticity means sex 1 drugs, and dirty fingernails. Last year, many people might have said that \Midnight i Cowboy\ represented. the u.Itimatel in emotional film ; expetibnce, but after seeing these De Sica 'films: ~ieWers are forced to refine their ·standards. · John Voight cowboy, though beautifully played, is suddenly exposed as a phony and commercial invention. One can no longer accept Voight's facile Freudian motivation after he has seen Sophia Loren grapple with degra~ati9n and poverty in \Two Women\. Because this se_ries is such a unique and profitable offering, Union students are urged to attend. The ftlms which are planned for the rest of the term are further opportunities for a broadening of awareness. Scheduled for January 29 and February 5 are two films by Max Ophuls, \Letter ·From an Unknown ·woman\ and \Lola Montes\. Ophuls, (a personal favorite) is an artist who appeals to limited tastes, simply because he deals with a lost world of elegance, grandeur, and romanticism. The opulence and visual fluidity in these films is inherent to Ophuls' examination of love and the varying attitudes toward love, but undoubtedly it will be alien to audiences who have been raised on cold, flashy and consciously modern films. Many people may find Ophuls irrelevant or even decadent, but this, in itself, is a comment, We live in an age which is devoid of illusions, romanticism, and old world splendor. This is exactly what Ophuls laments and, in his films he tries to recapture an image of lost elegance and honors. Today, people who are starved for romance are running to see \Love Story\ -a film which is a mere photograph of people in love. They would do much better to see \Letter\ or \Lola\, two films which are meaningful treatments and examinations of love and its many faces. On February 19 and 26 the film series is showing \Throne of Blood' and \The Seven Samurai\ by Akira Kurosawa. Although neither film is ever shown in this area, audiences will nonetheless find the material familiar - \Throne of Blood\ is a Japanese version of \Macbeth\ while \The Seven Samurai\ is the original \Magnificent Seven\. Kurosawa is a director who is noted for his excellent craftsmanship and his complex visuals; characters and motivation are simple and subordinate. In both films, the concentration is on violence and action and they are such raging works of overpowering immediacy that the audience is left both exhausted andexhilarated.Kurosawa's exaltation of force and power is so successful that his . films transcend the extretne culture barrier between Japan and the United States. Again, one would do better to see \The Seven Samurai\ than \The Magnificent Seven\. Although the latter is an American film, made with familiar stars, it lacks the necessary skill that makes a Kfuosawa film such a visceral experience. Many people have stayed away from the film series because they equate \art\ with tedium. Impossible films like Resnais' \Last Year at Marienbad\ or Hiroshima Mon Amour\ have given art a bad name. But for every Resnais there is a Renoir and those who have seen Renoir, have responded; they have realized that an artistic film is nothing more than a meaningful story which is presented well. Unfortunately, on Friday nights in Schenectady thete is only television (which means the worst films of the fifties) and Sc(\tia Art (which means no art at all). But, by attending the Union College film series on , . fpdar pights, on~ ~an make art ~ par;t, qf his cop1,mon e~eneltce. Surpnsmgly enough, 1t can be done - and not wfth pain, but with pleasure. .•\ Peter Falk (left) and Ben Gazzara loosening up in London in Jofm Cassavettes' .. Husbands.\ * * • * U.st term, Filn1 Haps partners Bob Levine, Ron Berkowitz, Mike Hollander, and Mark Urman departed from routine; they too tried to make art a common experience with such films as \Wages of Fear\ \Masculine Feminine\ \The Lower Oepths\ and \The Magnificent Ambersons\. Unfortunately: most students stayed away either because of \lnfamiliarity or because, again, they associated \art\ with bad or boring experiences. This term they have returned to a collection of more popular films. Of course, \Bonnie and Clyde\ \Zero for Conduct\ \Stolen Kisses\ and \Stagecoach\ are uncontested works of art, but the other selections represent high quality in purely entertaining genres. Perhaps \kitsch\ is the only word for such unabashedly entertaining films as \Across the Pacific\ or \Casablanca\ but there is also a certain art e.xpressed in the smoothness and economy of these films which must not be underestimated. No matter how much we refine our tastes, we will always long for the well-made films which tell us solid . . ' unpretent10us stones. So many films leave us with nothing, (I would use \Myra Breckenridge\ or \The Baby Maker\ as examples if I thought that anyone would remember them) that if a film does nothing but make. us cry, or laugh, or scream, relatively speaking, that IS a good deal. So, if we remember Audrey Hepburn's ter~o~. in . \Wait Until Dark\. or the~ egg ~atmg contest m Cool Hand Luke\ or Maggie Smith m \Oh What a Lovely War\ or the wheelchair race in \The Notorious Landlady\ it is to the credit of these films that we do so. If we cart marvel at Hitchcock's efficiency in \Foreign Correspondent .. , at the antics of the Marx .Brothers in \A Night at the Opera\ or at the campychche's of \The Oklahoma Kid\ then these films are surely worth seeing. ., 'None of these films pretends to be profound but most of them are so well made that they too can be used as standards of one sort, just as Renoir is a standard o.f anothe_r. so~ 1 Film ,Haps, ~as l~ft. it to 1 the, col_Iege s~t'tes to bnng. great art Jo, Un~on;, they are domg more than enough by bringing good movies.

I ~ tJ ~ ';! < I ~ ~ ; f• a the ' i''j,. sts, bid, ·: ft ave be I .. :t. a stic ! ' .f! J ... .~. to 4) .• on ·: '.l is of -1 I~ liy ilty . I' the ~ !I_ of I I just tl'· ', r are I at I I ~ '~ hat I on, ,I nal <Iii , I ( to .1) 1.._ up I • II. lS of I' ·/}1' ·, ... I ; I .'• I \' i ~ ( he I ck, i ' . as I if ll> l'• of is I ' I f t \' ' lj . l (. a . I \\ 1~~ I I I !~co ,fj •I' it.. ,, ' t \' '} I i ' ' ,, I ( ·I 'Q I { : .. !f' . Trends in American Film, ~~~o~~~!~:ar~.f~u~~~~E~nd tenston m the AmPncan fdm h • 1 industry - The Sound of Music T e Best F II m s 0 f 19 7 0 ~~:x:~~ i~:~:s/~a~if~s~~~~~vs~ Bud Cord, in flight gear, aloft in the Astrodome in \Brewster McCloud.\ Paint Your Wagon and Darling Lili proved to be awesome box office failures. Multi-million dollar musicals apparently no longer appealed to the public. Large, expensive extravaganzas in other film genres encountered a similar fate. Cromwell reflected the box office beheading of historical dramas of Bri,tish kings and queens. Tora, Tora, Tora Richard Zanuck's- attempt to follow in the footsteps of his father Darryl- Za:nuck (The Longest Day) proved to be a bigger bomb than any of those dropped in the film. Several years ago, when the large-budgeted films were beginning their decline, The Graduate and Bonnie and Clyde were- exhibited, garnering unexpected but awesome critical praise and fmancial success. The film . industry was shaken and abruptly came to the realization that perhaps films did not need the insurance of big stars or large budgets. Then along came Easy Rider; unknown actors, miniscule budget,, ad-libbed screenplay - but a major money- maker. Furthermore the youth market that seemed to be a significant factor in the success of The Gr-aduate and Bonnie and Clyde !(roved to be the major CONCORDIENSIS, JA~. 29, 1971 PAGE 3 reason tor Easy Rider's success. (Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Hollywood had discovered a new Kid, Midnight Cowboy, trend in films and immediately M*A*S*H, and Joe). Most of began to grind out derivative them were critical and financial Easy Riders. disasters (Zabriskie Point, The Overlapping and combining Strawberry Statement, Bloody with these youth-oriented film·s Mamma, Soldier Blue, The Magic were the message films. Youth Garden of Stanley Sweetheart, and adult alike were concerned R.P.M.). abollt the problems facing And so, at the end of 1970, all Americans ~ _ the widened of the trends of the 196@'s.seemed generation gap, the youth to have outlived their popularity . culture, alienation, sexllal For the first time in years of promiscuity and in the American film history no exploration of these social syndromes appeared insight. concerns an .unprecedented There were no bandwagoNs upon explicitness erupted. Sex and which to ju.mp. Hollywood violence in all their executives were aghast and manifestations were intricately frantically tried . to figure what detailed in films. Some type of film the public wanted to filmmakers used them tastefully see. The two most financially or at least as a means for successful films of 1970 were the legitimate art1st1c expression. freshly unconventional (Sam Peckinpah's The Wild M* A*S*H and Airport, the Bunch, Robert Altman's throwback to the Grand Hotel M* A*S*H, Mike Nichol's Catch· films of the '30's and '40's, 22, Arthur Penn's Little Big replete with the all-star casts and ·Man). Others made money, interweaving plot lines. Which of based on blood, gore, and sexual the two could be developed into perversion (Russ Meyers' Beyond a trend and could either film The Valley of The Dolls). initiate a successful syndrome? The youth-market - message The leaders of the industry didn't films were \in.\ Some were know. Their problem was literally cycle films, while others complicated by (and to some followed the figurative youth- extent a result of) the economic market cycle. A few garnered inflation with which the country critical praise (Medium Cool, was burdened. Tight money They Shoot Horses, Don't They?, meant fewer films and less Butch Cassidy and The Sundance expensive ones at that. Kid, Midnight Cowboy, Then, in . December, 1970, M\' A*S*H, Catch-22, Five Easy Love Story opened in theaters to Pieces, and Little Big Man(. varied critical opinions, but Some achieved box office success continued on Page 5 CONCORDIENSIS 1970 SPECIAL FILM ISSUE Film Haps, Film Series Reviewed by MARK URMAN We all went through a stage when we thought that war stories and James Bond were the most exciting and immediate film experiences. Then we read and watched some more and, in many cases, our tastes changed. As soon as we laughed at a Chaplin or a Keaton film, we realized that the \Dead End Kids\ were not the height of comedy; as soon as we discovered the sophisticated romances of the thirties, we understood why critics founcl Doris Day films stale and flat. When we were finally exposed to great films, we could no longer be satisfied with the poor or even the mediocre. Perhaps this refining process - this development of a comparitive sense - is the key to film appreciation. A moviegoer may not be able to isolate the exact qualities which determine the greatness of a Chaplin film, such as \The Gold Rush\ but at least he'll know that, for whatever reason, it's better than most comedies he's seen. But the necessary thing in developing this comparative sense is the exposure, and good films are hard to find. Therefore if one glances through the entertainment section of the \New York Times\ and looks at the art house revivals, he sees dozens of strange names - Renoir, Truffaut, DeSica, Fellini, Antonioni, Kurosawa, Bunuel, and so on. Most people know nothing rnoreaboutthese men than that they are \artists\; few people who live outside of New York City have ever gotten to see their films. Since many of these films are old, few are popular, and most are in a foreign language, these great men will forever remain strange and mysterious names to the larger public. But for those who do get to see a Renoir or a DeSica film. there is a change in perspective; these are the very films which give rise to a comparative sense. Mter one has seen Renoir's \Grand Illusion\ most war films grow pale by comparison. One realizes that \The Great Escape\ \Stalag IT, \The Defiant Ones\ and, in short, most of the old favorites are cheap and inferior imitations. Although one may not be able to articulate just why \Grand Illusion\ is a great film, it will be apparent to him that it is far superior to most other films. The Union College Film Series, under the direction of Mr. Peck (with suggestions by Mark Urman and Bob Levine) is therefore invaluable to both Union students and the Schenectady community. This series has already brought us Renoir's \Grand Illusion\ and \The Golden Coach\ and DeSica's \The Bicycle Thief' and \Two Women\ along with films by Chaplin, Keaton, Griffith, and Eisenstein. Already there have been opponunities to learn and to experience a change. The DeSica films, for instance, represent the triumph of neo-realism in film. When we watch \The Bicycle Thief' and \Two Women\ the screen and the audience seem to disappear and we are watching life. When these films tell us so simply and directly about the failure of experience and the shame of poverty. our reaction is real and deeply felt. Compare this to the neon-realism of \Midnight Cowboy\ a film in which authenticity •neans sex, drugs, and dirty fingernails. Last year, many people might have said that \Midnight Cowboy\ represented the ultimate in emotional film experience, but after seeing these DeSica films, viewers are forced to refine their standards. John Voight cowboy, though beautifully played, is suddenly exposed as a phony and commercial invention. One can no longer accept Voight's facile Freudian motivation after he has seen Sophia Loren grapple with degradation and poverty in \Two Women\. Because this series is such a unique and profitable offering, Union students are urged to attend. The films which are planned for the rest of the term are further opportunities for a broadening of awareness. Scheduled for January 29 and February 5 are two films by Max Ophuls, \Letter From an Unknown Woman\ and \Lola Montes\. Ophuls, (a personal favorite) is an artist who appeals to limited tastes, simply because he deals with a lost world of elegance, grandeur, and romanticism. The opulence and visual fluidity in these films is inherent to Ophuls' examination of love and the varying attitudes toward love, but undoubtedly it will be alien to audiences who have been raised on cold, flashy and consciously modern films. Many people may find Ophuls irrelevant or even decadent, but this, in itself, is a comment, We live in an age which is devoid of illusions, romanticism, and old world splendor. This is exactly what Ophuls laments and, in his films he tries to recapture an image of lost elegance and honors. Today, people who are starved for romance are running to see \Love Story\ - a film which is a mere photograph of people in love. They would do much better to see \Letter\ or \Lola\, two films which are meaningful treatments and examinations of love and its many faces. On February 19 and 26 the film series is showing \Throne of Blood' and \The Seven Samurai\ by Akira Kurosawa. Although neither film is ever shown in this area, audiences will nonetheless find the material familiar- \Throne of Blood\ is a Japanese version of \Macbeth\ while \The Seven Samurai\ is the original \Magnificent Seven\. Kurosawa is a director who is noted for his excellent craftsmanship and his complex visuals; characters and motivation are simple and subordinate. In both films, the concentration is on violence and action and they are such raging works of overpowering immediacy that the audience is left both exhausted and ex hila rated. Kurosawa's exaltation of force and power is so successful that his films transcend the extreme culture barrier between Japan and the United States. Again, one would do better to see \The Seven Samurai\ than \The Magnificent Seven\. Although the latter is an American film, made with familiar stars, it lacks the necessary skill that makes a KJrosawa film such a visceral experience. Many people have stayed away from the film series because they equate \art\ with tedium. Impossible films like Resnais' \Last Year at Marien bad\ or Hiroshima Mon Amour\ have given art a bad name. But for every Resnais there is a Renoir and those who have seen Renoir, have responded; they have realized that an artistic film is nothing more than a meaningful story which is presented well. Unfortunately, on Friday nights in Schenectady there is only television (which means the worst films of the fifties) and Scotia Art (which means no art at all). But, by attending the Union College film series on Friday nights, one can make art a part of his comrr:.on experience. Surprisingly enough, it can be done - and not with pain, but with pleasure. Peter Falk (left) and Ben Gazzara loosening up in London in John Cassavettes' \Husbands.\ * * * * U.st term, Film Haps partners Bob Levine, Ron Berkowitz, Mike Hollander, and Mark Urman departed from routine; they too tried to make art a common experience with such films as \Wages of Fear\ \Masculine Feminine\ \The Lower Depths\ and \The Magnificent Ambersons\. Unfortunately, most students stayed away either because of unfamiliarity or because, again, they associated \art\ with bad or boring experiences. This term they have returned to a collection of more popular films. Of course, \Bonnie and Clyde\ \Zero for Conduct\ \Stolen Kisses\ and \Stagecoach\ are uncontested works of art, but the other selections represent high quality in purely entertaining genres. Perhaps \kitsch\ is the only word for such unabashedly entertaining films as \Across the Pacific\ or \Casablanca\ but there is also a certain art expressed in the smoothness and economy of these films which must not be underestimated. No matter how much we refine our tastes, we will always long for the well-made films which tell us solid. unpretentious stories. So many films leave us with nothing, (I would use \Myra Breckenridge\ or \The Baby Maker\ as examples if I thought that am·one would remember them) that if a film does nothing but make. us cry, or laugh, or scream. relatively speaking. that ts a good deal. So, if we remember Audrev Hepburn's ter:or in .. Wait Until Dark\ or the egg eatmg contest m \Cool Hand Luke\. or Maggie Smith in \Oh What a Lovely War\. or the wheelchair race in \The Notorious Landlady\ it is to the credit of these films that we do so. If we can marvel at Hitchcock's efficiency in \Foreign Correspondent\. at the antics of the Marx Brothers in \A Night at the Opera\ or at the campycliche's of \The Oklahoma Kid\ then these films are surely worth seeing. None of these films pretends to be profound but most of them are so well made that they too can be used as standards of one sort, just as Renoir is a standard of another sort. Film Haps has left it to the col.lege series to bring great art to llnion; they are domg more than enough by bringing good movies.

PAGE 4 CONCORDIENSIS, JAN. 29, 1971 This Year's Fifteen Best Films ~tfantasia'' An:d Drugs The Eye of th:e Be.ho·lde:r And Those Who Made Them Great by MIKE MESEROLE 1 MOVIE:. (tie) \The Out of It's time to hand o_ut so~e ! Towners,\ and \Woodstock.\ coveted: year-end, cmemat1c Most Original Ending to a ~ardwar_e for the Best and Worst Va~pire Flick: \House of Dark m moVIes for 1970. The past Shadows\ - blond~haired hero twelve m?nths, \':hile not noted socks it to vampire Barnabas . f~r consistent filt,n excellence, right through the heart via a did, howeve_r, provide some very cross~bow, in s'low motion. Best good . movies - some even Make-Up Job Since Herman bordenng on greatness. The ~est, Munster: \Little Big Man\ _ Worst, and any other select10ns Dustin Hoffman in the guise of mad~ here are leveled only at 121 year old Jack Crabb. movies actually seen'here. \Myra Grossest Scene Of The Year· Breckenridge,\ therefore, will not \Gttch-22\ _ the bombardier'~ get any award this year because a guts falling out. Sweetest Scene: conscious effort was made not to \Love Story\ - Jenny and Ollie see it. throwing each other in the snow Before choosing the best and at Harvard. Funniest Scene: wor~t in actors, actresses a~d \Brewster McCloud\ - Stacy moVI~s, plus a bundle of special Keach, as the third Wright mentions, there has to be a Brother, rolling down the snappy n.ame to give theseawards.l boulevard in his wheelchair We'll call them the \Rosebuds a behind his Rolls. Drunkest pretty hip name by movie Scene: \Hus·bands\ standards, if you remember Cassavettes Falk Gazzara and ~i~i~en Kan::s problem . in friends ~irin'king a~d singing with Citizen Kane. So, the followmg gusto m a New York City individuals and productions have tavern. SICKEST SCEN'E:· been selected by the Rose~ud \Husbands\ - Cassavettes Falk Movie Review Board as winners and Gazzara blowing lunch with of the 1970 Rosebuds - the gusto in the washroom .of that envelopes, please. same tavern. The Fi've Best Actors: 5) SILLIEST SCENE OF THE Melvin Douglas, \I Never Sang YEAR: \Kelly's Heroes\ For My Father\; 4) James Earl WWH hippie Donald Sutherland Jones, \The Great White Hope\.; leading his crack tank crew into 3) Ben Gazzara, \Husbands\; 2) battle vs. the Nazis, with band Peter ~oyle, \!oe\; 1) George C. . music blaring and fake .gun Scott, Patton . nozzles. OUTSPOKENEST The Five Best Actresses: 5) SCENE: \Joe\ - Joe at the bar, Stella Stevens, .:'The Ballad ?f in the beginning, telling it as it Cable Hogue ; 4) Carne really is (42% of all liberals are Snodgrass, \Diary of a Mad queer, the Wallace people took a Housewife\; 3) Jeanne Moreau, \Monte Walsh\; 2) Ali MacGraw, \Love.. Story\; I) Tuesday Weld, \I Walk The Line\. The Five Best Supporting Actresses:, .5) Ruth Gordon, ''Where's Pappa\; 4) Cloris Leachman, \Lovers and Other Strangers\; 3) Karen Black, \Five Easy Pieces\; 2) Lee Grant, \The Landlord\; I) Sally Kellerman, \M* A*S*H\. The Ten Best Supporting Actors: l 0) Karl Malden, \Patton\; 9) Rene Auberjonois, \BFewster McCloud\;· 8) Peter Falk, \Husbands\; 7) Frederic March, \tick .. tick .. tick\; 6) Noel Coward, \The Italian Jeb\; 5) Dom DeLuise, ''The Twelve Chairs\; 4) Jack Palance, \Monte Walsh\; 3) Stacy Keach, \Brewster McCloud\; 2) Gene Wood, \M*A*S*H\; J) Chief Dan George, \Little Big Man.\ THE FIVE BEST SONGS: 5) \Last of the Unnatural Acts,\ (\'Brewster McCloud\); 4) \Burning Bridges,\ (\Kelly's Heroes\); 3) \C.C. Ryder,\ (\C.C. and Company\}; 2) \Suicide Is Painless,\ (M* A*S*H\); 19 \I Walk The Line,\ (\I Walk The Line\). THE FIVE WORST MOVIES OF 1970: 5) \Beyond the Valley of the Dolls\'; 4) \R.P.M.\; 3) \C.C. and Company\; 2) \The Adventurers\; 1) \Zabriskie Point.\ Tuesday Weld (wielding hook) zeroes in on Sheriff Peck for 1970's \Worst Ending.\ poll,). Distastefulest Scene: \Brewster McCloud\ - near the end when Suzanne, the racing driver-Astro guidg, throws up and asks her boyfriend to kiss her, and he does (yeech!). • Year: Elliot Gould. Best Movie Company: Director Robert Altman's All-Stars - the actors and actresses who did hoth \M*A*S*H\ and \Brewster McCloud.\ Best War Picture: \Patton\. Best Western: \Monte Walsh.\ Best Car Chase: \Brewster McCloud.\ Best Yelli~tll and Screaming: \The Boy,s in the Band.\ Best Legs: Candice Bergan, \Getting Straight\. Best Nostrils: Ali MacGraw, \Love Story. Best SmHe: (tie) Jeanne Jeanne Moreau flashes year's \Best Smile\ (female division) at Lee marvin in ·~Monte Walsh.\ Moreau ... Monte Walsh'; and James Earl Jones, \The Great White Hope.\ Funniest Single Word: \birdeedo o\ (\Brewster McCloud';). Best Line: \Where you goin' General?\ \Berlin I'm gonna personally shoot that flh·per hangin' son of a bitch.\ (\Patton\), Biggest Waste of Money: \Tora! Tora! Tora!\ Biggest Tear Jerker: \Love Story\. Best On Stage Performance. In A Movie: Wayne Cochrane and his C.C. Riders (\C.C. and Company\). Best Skywriting In A Movie: \The Grasshopper.\ Most Confusing Movie: \Rider In the. Rain.\ Be8t Bit Of Youth Exploitation: .. The Strawberry Statement.\ Best Double Feature: \tick .. tick .. tick\ and \The Italian Job.\ Best Triple Feature: \The Secret llie of Romeo and Juliet,\ \Dracula's Women,\ and \I Can Do It All.\ Best Coming Attractions: ''I A WoPllln. Part III.\ by MICHAEL CANTWELL The problem with reviewing a film like \Fantasia\ is not in judging the merits of the work itself, but in judging the condition of the audience. If a film is. being protnotecl as a head film {the ads for the movie describe it as \the ultimate trip?'), is the reviewer obligated to see the film three times in three different conditions - straight, stoned, and .tripping? When a friend tells you that a film ·must be seen. stoned or tripping, is he implying that the drug is a necessary complement to make the :film. enjoyable,, or that the drug will make a good film more ·enjoyable? I have a friend who has never seen \2001\ because he has never had a tab of acid at the same time the film wa:s being shown locally. Another friend loved the same film stoned even though the print was in wretched condition, 1 'but the music wa·s great.\ \Woodstock\ was a great mescaline film 'because there were constantly fluctuating, unrelated images .constantly assaulting the viewer, not to mention great, very loud music. It was a great time, but that does not make \Woodstock'' a great film. ambitious work praduced by the Disney studios, :it was also. the most financially unsuccessful film Disney ever produced. The film begins with the· oreliestta members' shadows reflecting against a blue backgrounc;l. After an intrusive an(! pa.ironizirig introduction, the orchestra me.m:bers fade into abstract imases suggested by the music. Th.is is followed hy five more animated segments suggested by ·various classical works. In the beginning, the film se~ms remarkably ima·ginative and origin!ll, bu,t the limits of Disney's vision or ambition are soon apparent. Each segment anthropomorphisizes mythological figures or animals, and undercuts the beauty of mood with low comedy. It's as if Disney were afraid of. losing touch. with the mainstream of his audience. . This does nQt mean the fil~ is not a worthwhile film.. There is much to enjoy in each segment, and the technical ability displayed in the film is a~tou.nding (the difference between the film's animation and what passes for animation on Saturd!IY mornings is reason enough to see the film). My favorife segment involved the ••coldly scientific\ dl;)piction of the 1:1artb:'s beginnings inspired by Stravinsky's \Rite of Spring.\ There is no attempt to be cute, and the subtle switches between abstract ,beauty and realisitic horror are fascinating. On the other hand,_\20GI\ was a great film, no matter· what condition the viewer placed himself in. ln fact, drugs took away from the majesty of the film. The film was an explanation of the audience; why many find it necessary to use drugs to cope with a mechanical society. Actually, the \dope-quality\ equation is an inverse ratio - the worse the film, the more dope you should use. An excellent film shou1d always be seen straight at least once but \True Grit\ was a whole mess of fun stoned. Grass can tum a movie that is embarrassingly bad into hysterical comedy. Contrary to popular report, I do not think it is a. film to see stoned. The film establishes its own leisurely pace, f,l.nd a viewer who has smoked marijuana may be bored; however, until the boredom sets in, it should be a I viewed \Fantasia\· straight, judging the film on its own merits. However, at the end of the review there will be· projected guesses on how the ftlm would complement various drugs. It is no great revelation that \Fantasia\ was critically lambasted when it was first released in 1940. Easily the most fine time. · Kill. for some mescaline! The colors are - brilliantly choreographed, and the changing rhythms of the color scheme ~hould keep the tripping viewer constantly astounded and amazed. Since Proctor's, where the film is being showri, refuses to turn t~e music up, and the s~teen size is small to begin with, stt up close. . SKIN -FLI~KS . There is a Walt Dism;y short about a dog trained to hunt mountain lions that alternates between absurd and tasteless. You might get some giggles if GOING . you're stoned, but. if you're UN . . .. DE R tn.·pping avoid it at all costs; 'the , • close-up of the lion's fangs may . kill you. by LEONARD SCHNEIDER As nudity in films becomes The result has been that many commonplace, and as the. shock have become as inured to the vanishes, the inescapable sight of a nude figure as we are conclusion is that many directors to seeing or hearing four-letter couldn't do an erotic scene if th·ey words. You used. to be able to see tried, and many have tried very a Playboy centerfold and observe hard. It is the past master of the the line just beyond good taste; perverted, Russ Meyet, who used now Playboy is getting more and the new censor-freedom to make more daring in a vain attempt to two dirty films, \Vixen\ and find the line itself. Perhaps our :'Cherry, Harry, and Raquel,\ children are doomed to spend mstead of being boringly obvious. their adolescence under the Colony Art · 133() State - 346-7582 NOW ENDS TUES. WHAT IS OBSCENE? THE 4 WORST \ACTORS\ AND \ACTRESSES\: 4) Ann-Margaret, \R.P.M.\: 3) Ann-Margaret, '\C.C. and Company\; 2) Joe Namath, \C.C. and Co.\; 1) · Mark Frechette, \Zabriskie Pmnt.\ Uncomfortablest Scene Of The Year: \Catch-22\ ~ nurse Paula Prentice calmly replacing a hospital patient's empty blood plasma bottle with a full urine bottle. Most Embarrassing Scene: \M* A*S*H\ - Hot Lips and Burns making love live and on camp-wide radio. Stupidest Scene: \Zabriske Point\ - the two groovy, now, relevant kids doing their sex thing in the middle of the desert. Messiest Scenes: \M*A*S*H\- all camp hospital scenes (\Nurse I need a . big hunk of sponge or something.\). Mickey Spillane says he writes covers eating an egg. what he likes to read. N 0 Of course, as l mentioned cynically bad novel has ever before, it is not impossible to WE ARE DEFENDING YOUR RIGHTS AS CONSENTING ADULTS TO SEE \SEXUAL fREEDOM IN DENMARK\ BY Slt(WIING IT UNCut AND UN- CENSORED AT EVERY PERFORM· ANCE. The Fifteen Best Movies of 1970 (can yon stand the suspense?): 15) \Kelly's Heroes\; . BEST BEGINNING: 14) \I Walk The Line\; 13) ••1 \Brewster McCloud\ the · Never Sang For My Father\; 12) movie opens in the Astrodome. \Lovers and Other Stra~ers\;ll) with, the National Anthem and ; \The Twelve Chairs\;. 10) \Catch- the credits role, but half way 22\; 9) \Five Easy Pieces\; 8) through, the Anthem stops and · ''Love Story\; 1) \Monte Walsh''; starts all over - so do the 6) \Joe\; 5) ''Husbands\; 4) credits. BEST ENDING: \Kelly's \Patton\; 3) \M*A*S*H''; 2) Heroes\ - Eastwood, Savalas, \Little Big Man\; 1) \Brewster 'Rickles & Co. steal the fortified McCloud.\ German WWII gold supply - Villain Of The Y~ar: Gen. and don't give it back. WORST George Custer, \Ltttle Big ENDING: \I Walk The Line\ - Man.\ Hero Of The Year: Gen. Sheriff Gregory Peck finally George Patton; .\Patton\. catches up with his mistress Dummies Of The Year: Hitler's Tuesday Weld, and sh!! nails him Krauts {for the 25th straight in the shoulder with an ite pick. year), \Patton\: and , \Kelly's become a best~eller strictly on its make a lewd and lascivious own demerits; the public can tell movie, but you have to want to when it is being laughed at. In do it. The artistic instincts must every bad, successful work, the be made to complement the author brings his ingenuous action; a zoom lens and a rock honesty; his interest in his work score may be in, but the zoom shows. When making skin-flicks lens is distracting and the rock was almost not worth the hassle, music drown~ out the obviously the industry was made up of men phony grunts and groans. If the who actually liked making dirty director's instincts are mvolved in films. Now, with the promise of a the fihning of Crime arid wide distribution, many people Punishment, he;s going to seem are becoming involved for absurd filming \Mary Does it To . ac-~ vanous and sundry reasons, usually having to with using It may be an omen of the their film as a Jumping-off point times, but the market for \X'; to bigger and better things. And ftlms is dying,· and · those- as strange as this may sound filmmakers who are the slaves of !hey si~ply do. not hav~ enougb trends are making horror. films .. MOST EXHAUSTIVE Heroes\. Ov.er~Exposure. Of The mterest'In the product to make it. ' , Hopef~y, ~~is wi~. r<;tuJl1, the, ~rt: : , any gooo: . to the dlrty old men. . . WHAT 'IS SEXUAL FREEDOM REALLY ALL ABOUT? The· otlgin~l. the mot:~t explicit, and tile most controversial . film on matters of sexual activity and pornography continues uncut and uncensored. I ' ' Nigl:itly 7:2(1.;.9:20 p.M.

PAGE 4 CONCORDIENSIS, JAN. 29, 1971 This Year's Fifteen Best Films And Those Who Made Them Great by MIKE MESEROLE . MOVIE: (tie) .. The Out of It's time to hand out some Towners,\ and \Woodstock.\ coveted, year-end, cinematic Most Odginal Ending to a hardware for the Best and Worst Vampire Flick: \Hcmse of Dark in movies for 1970. The past Shadows\ - blond-haired hero twelve months, while not noted socks it to vampire Barnabas . for consistent film excellence, right through the heart via a did, however, provide some very cross-bow, in slow motion. Best good movies some even Ma·ke- Up Job Since Herman bordering on greatness. The Best, Munster: \Little Big Man\ _ Worst, and any other selections Dustin Hoffman in the guise of made here are leveled only at 121 year old Jack Crabb. movies actually seen here. \Myra Grossest Scene Of The Year: Breckenridge,\ therefore, will not \Catch-22\ _ the bombardier's get any award th1s year because a guts falling out. Sweetest Scene: conscious effort was made not to \Love Story\ -- Jenny and Ollie see it. throwing each other in the snow Before choosing the best and at Harvard. Funniest Scene: worst in actors, actresses and \Brewster McCloud\ - Stacy movi~s, plus a bundle of special Keach, as the third Wright mentiOns, there has to be a Brother, rolling down the snappy name to give theseawards.: boulevard in his wheelchair We'll call them the \Rosebuds a behind his Rolls. Drunkest pretty hip name by movie Scene: \Husbands\ st~~dards, if you remember Cassavettes, Falk, Gazzara and ~~t.t~en Kan~:s problem . in friends drinking and singing with Citizen Kane. So, the followmg gusto in a New York City individuals and productions have tavern. SICKEST SCENE:· been selected by the Rosebud \Husbands\ - Cassavettes Falk Movie Review Board as winners and Gazzara blowing lunch with of the 1970 Rosebuds - the gusto in the washroom of that envelopes, please. The Five Best Actors: 5) Melvin Douglas, \I Never Sang For My Father\; 4) James Earl Jones, \The Great White Hope\; 3) Ben Gazzara, \Husbands\; 2) Peter Boyle, \Joe\; I) George C. Scott, \Patton\. The Five Best Actresses: 5) Stella Stevens, \The Ballad of Cable Hogue\; 4) Carrie Snodgrass, \Diary of a Mad Housewife\; 3) Jeanne Moreau, \Monte Walsh\; 2) Ali MacGraw, \Love. Story\; 1) Tuesday Weld, \I Walk The Line\. The Five Best Supporting Actresses: ~ 5) Ruth Gordon, \Where's Poppa \; 4) Cloris Leachman, \Lovers and Other Strangers\; 3) Karen Black, \Five Easy Pieces\; 2) Lee Grant, \The Landlord\; 1) Sally Kellerman, \M*A*S*H\. same tavern. SILLIEST SCENE OF THE YEAR: \Kelly's Heroes\ WWH hippie Donald Sutherland leading his crack tank crew into battle vs. the Nazis, with band music blaring and fake gun nozzles. OUTSPOKENEST SCENE: \Joe\ - Joe at the bar, in the beginning, te!Hng it as it really is (42% of all liberals are queer, the Wallace people took a Tuesday Weld (wielding hook) zeroes in on Sheriff Peck for 1970's \Worst Ending.\ Year: Elliot Gould. Best Movie Company: Director Robert Altman's All-Stars - the actors and actresses who did both \M* A*S*H\ and \Brewster McCloud.\ Best War Picture: \Patton\. Best Western: \Monte Walsh.\ Best Car Chase: \Brewster McCloud.\ Best Yelling and Screaming: \The Boys in the Band.\ Best Legs: Candice Bergan, \Getting Straight\. Best Nostrils: Ali MacGraw, \Love Story. Best Smile: (tie) Jeanne Jeanne Moreau flashes year's \Best Smile\ (female division) at Lee marvin in \Monte Walsh.\ Moreau, \Monte Walsh\ and James Earl Jones, \The Great White Hope.\ Funniest Single Word: \birdeedoo\ (\Brewster McCloud\). Best Line: \Where you goin' General?\ \Berlin I'm gonna personaliy shoot that _pnper hangin' son of a bitch.\ (\Patton\). Biggest Waste of Money: \Tora! Tora! Tora!\ Biggest Tear Jerker: ••Love Story\. Best On Stage Performance In A Movie: Wayne Cochrane and his C.C. Riders (\C.C. and Company\). Best Skywriting In A Movie: \The Grasshopper.\ Most Confusing Movie: ••Rider In the Rain.\ Best Bit Of Youth Exploitation: \The Strawberry Statement.\ Best Double Feature: \tick .. tick .. tick\ and \The Italian Job.\ Best Triple Feature: \The Secret Life of Romeo and Juliet,\ \Dracula's Women,\ and \I Can Do It All.\ Best Coming Attractions: \I A Woman. Part III.\ HFantasia\ And Drugs The Eye of the Beholder by MICHAEL CANTWELL The problem with reviewing a film like \Fantasia\ is not in judging the merits of the work itself, but in judging the condition of the audience. If a film is being promoted as a head film (the ads for the movie describe it as \the ultimate trip\) is the reviewer obligated to see the film three times in. three different conditions - straight, stoned, and tripping? When a friend tells you that a film · must be seen ston.ed or tripping, is he implying that the drug is a necessary complement to make the film enjoyable,, or that the drug will make a good film more enjoyable? I have a friend who has never seen \200 1\ because he has never had a tab of acid at the same time the film was being shown locally. Another friend loved the same film stoned even though the print was in wretched condition, \but the music was great.\ \Woodstock\ was a great mescaline film because there were constantly fluctuating, unrelated images constantly assaulting the viewer, not to mention great, very loud music. It was a great time, but that does not make \Woodstock\ a great film. On the other hand, \200 l\ was a great film, no matter what condition the viewer placed himself in. In fact, drugs took away from the majesty of the film. The film was an explanation of the audience; why many find it necessary to use drugs to cope with a mechanical society. ambitious work produced by the Disney studios, it was also the most financially unsuccessful film Disney ever produced. The film begins with the orchestra members' shadows reflecting against a blue background. After an intrusive and patronizing introduction, the orchestra members fade into abstract ima5es suggested by the music. This is followed by five more animated segments suggested by various classical works. In the beginning, the film seems remarkably imaginative and original, but the limits of Disney's vision or ambition are soon apparent. Each segment anthropomorphisizes mythological figures or animals, and undercuts the beauty of mood with low comedy. It's as if Disney were afraid of. losing touch with the mainstream of his audience. This does not mean the film is not a worthwhile film. There is much to enjoy in each segment, and the technical ability displayed in the film 1s astounding (the difference between the film's animation and what passes for animation on Saturday mornings is reason enough to see the film). My favori'l'e segment involved the \coldly scientific\ depiction of the earth's beginnings inspired by Stravinsky's \Rite of Spring.\ There is no attempt to be cute, and the subtle switches between abstract beauty and realisitic horror are fascinating. Contrary to popular report, I do not think it is a film to see stoned. The film establishes its own leisurely pace, and a viewer who has smoked marijuana may be bored; however, until the boredom sets in, it should be a fine time. Actually, the \dope-quality\ equation is an inverse ratio - the worse the film, the more dope you should use. An excellent film should always be seen straight at least once but \True Grit\ was a whole mess of fun stoned. Grass can turn a movie that is embarrassingly bad into hysterical comedy. I viewed \Fantasia\ straight, judging the film on its own merits. However, at the end of the review there will be projected guesses on how the film would complement various drugs. It is no great revelation that \Fantasia\ was critically lambasted when it was first released in I 940. Easily the most Kill for some mescaline! The colors are brilliantly choreographed, and the changing rhythms of the color scheme should keep the tripping viewer constantly astounded and amazed. Since Proctor's, where the film is being shown·, refuses to turn the music up, and the s~reen size is small to begin with, sit up close. The Ten Best Supporting Actors: 10) Karl Malden, \Patton\~ 9) Rene Auberjonois, \Brewster McCloud\; 8) Peter Falk, \Husbands\; 7) Frederic March, \tick .. tick .. tick\; 6) Noel Coward, \The Italian Job\; 5) Dom DeLuise, \The Twelve Chairs\; 4) Jack Palance, \Monte Walsh\; 3) Stacy Keach, \Brewster McCloud\; 2) Gene Wood, \M*A*S*H''; 1) Chief Dan George, \Little Big Man.\ THE FIVE BEST SONGS: 5) \Last of the Unnatural Acts,\ (\Brewster McCloud\); 4) \Burning Bridges,\ (\Kelly's Heroes\); 3) \C.C. Ryder,\ (\C.C. and Company\}; 2) \Suicide Is Painless,\ (M*A*S*H\); 19 \I Walk The Line,\ (\I Walk The Line\). poll.). Distastefulest Scene: \Brewster McCloud\ - near the end when Suzanne, the racing driver-Astro guide, throws up and asks her boyfriend to kiss SKIN-FLICKS There is a Walt Disney short about a dog trained to hunt mountain lions that alternates between absurd and tasteless. You might get some giggles if you're stoned, but if you're tripping avoid it at all costs; the close-up of the lion's fangs may kill you. THE FIVE WORST MOVIES OF 1970: 5) \Beyond the Valley of the Dolls\; 4) \R.P.M.\; 3) \C.C. and Company\; 2) \The Adventurers\; I) \Zabriskie Point.\ THE 4 WORST \ACTORS\ AND \ACTRESSES\: 4) Ann-Margaret, \R.P.M.\: 3) Ann-Margaret. \C.C. and Company\; 2) Joe Namath, \C. C. and Co.\; I) Mark Frechette, \Zabriskie Pomt.\ BEST BEGINNING: \Brewster McCloud\ the movie opens in the Astrodome with the National Anthem and the credits role, but half way through, the Anthem stops and starts all over - so do the credits. BEST ENDING: \Kelly's Heroes\ - Eastwood, Savalas, Rickles & Co. steal the fortified German WWII gold supply - and don't give it back. WORST ENDING: \I Walk The Line\ - Sheriff Gregory Peck finally catches up with his mistress Tuesday Weld, and she nails him in the shoulder with an ice pick. MOST EXHAUSTIVE her, and he does (yeech!). • Uncomfortablest Scene Of The Year: \Catch-22\ - nurse Paula Prenticl! calmly replacing a hospital patient's empty blood plasma bottle with a full urine bottle. Most Embarrassing Scene: \M*A*S*H\ - Hot Lips and Burns making love live and on camp-wide radio. Stupidest Scene: \Zabriske Point\ - the two groovy, now, relevant kids d0ing their sex thing in the middle of the desert. Messiest Scenes: \M*A*S*H\ - all camp hospital scenes (\Nurse I need a big hunk of sponge or something.\). The Fifteen Best Movies of 1970 (can you stand the suspense?): 15) \Kelly's Heroes\; 14) \I Walk The Line\; 13) \I Never Sang For My Father\; 12) \Lovers and Other S traQP:ers\; 11) ••The Twelve Chairs\; 10) \Catch- 22\; 9) •'Five Easy Pieces\; 8) ••Love Story\; 7) \Monte Walsh\; 6) \Joe\; 5) \Husbands\; 4) '•Patton\; 3) \M* A *S*H''; 2) \Little Big Man\; 1) \Brewster McCloud.\ Villain Of The Year: Gen. George Custer, \Little Big Man.\ Hero Of The Year: Gen. George Patton, \Patton\. Dummies Of The Year: Hitler's Krauts {for the 25th straight year), ••Patton\ and \Kelly's Heroes\. Over-Exposure Of The GOING UNDER by LEONARD SCHNEIDER As nudity in films becomes commonplace, and as the shock vanishes, the inescapable conclusion is that many directors c~uldn't do an erotic scene if they tned, and many have tried very hard. It is the past master of the perverted, Russ Meyer, who used the new censor-freedom to make two dirty films, \Vixen\ and :~cherry, Harry, and Raquel,\ mstead of being boringly obvious. Mickey Spillane says he writes what he likes to read. No cynically bad novel has ever become a best-seller strictly on its own demerits; the public can tell when it is being laughed at. In every bad, successful work, the author brings his ingenuous honesty; his interest in his work shows. When making skin-flicks was almost not worth the hassle the industry was made up of me~ who actually liked making dirty films. Now, with the promise of a wide distribution, many people are becoming involved for various and sundry reasons, us~ally having to with using thetr film as a jumping-off point to bigger and better things. And as strange as this may sound they simply do not have enough interest in the product to make it any gooa. The result has been that many have become as iimred to the sight of a nude figure as we are to seeing or hearing four-letter words. You used to be able to see a Playboy centerfold and observe the line just beyond good taste; now Playboy is getting more and more daring in a vain attempt to find the line itself. Perhaps our children are doomed to spend their adolescence under the covers eating an egg. Of course, as I mentioned before, it is not impossible to make a lewd and lascivious movie, but you have to want to do it. The artistic instincts must be made to complement the action; a zoom lens and a rock score may be in, but the zoom lens is distracting and the rock music drowns out the obviously phony grunts and groans. If the director's instincts are mvolved in the filming of Crime and Punishment, he's going to seem absurd filming \Mary Does it To a Cow.\ It may be an omen of the times, but the market for \X\ films is dying,· and those filmmakers who are the slaves of trends are making horror films. Hopefully, this will n:turn the art to the dirty old men. Colony Art 1330 State- 346-7582 NOW ENDS TUES. WHAT IS OBSCENE? WE ARE DEFENDING YDUR RIGHTS AS CONSENTING ADULTS TO SEE \SEXUAL mEEDOM IN DENMARK\ BY SHOWING IT UNCUT AND UN. CENSORED AT EVERY PERFORM· ANCE. WHAT IS SEXUAL FREEDOM REALLY ALL ABOUT? The original, the mo~:~t explicit, and the most controversial film on matters of sexual activity and pornography continues uncut and uncensored. Nightly 7:20-9:20 P.M. ~· I I rt I\ n s~· 'I J ~ II i I 1,._ :1 i ' :I r! 'I '\~ I I 'I ~ l' rt '; u r 'l :I I II ' . ' L ;C. tljl( ·:!\ ' ' I I -··1~\· {., , ..... 6 ... ' •

r ,y the o. the tl film the· dows blue rusive 1, the into y the more :d by l the e~ms and of 1 are ment nals, ' of as if Jsing ,f his m is re is 1ent, iii ty IS :nee and on lSOn My the of i by ng.\ :ute, reen sitic t, I see its wer nay the e a rhe tly jug :me Ner nd ere ses the th, ort mt tes ss. if 're he ay - .. ..- '( (, . tt 1\ More Film ·Trend:s From Page 8 overwhelming box office success. It will apparently make more money that Ai~port (seventh largest money-maker in history according to Variety) and possible even come close to surpassing The Sound of Music (second largest money-maker) and Gone With The Wind (largest money-maker). With Love Story, the leaders - of Hollywood found the film upon which to start a trend. A recent advertisement of Twentieth- Century Fox contained a quote The Film Look for '71 is the look of love - that all·time box Qfnce pulling emotion that has been re- established ·as an i·ndustry cornerstone for success in the se.venties.\ This seems to -be .the opinion .of most film industry executives. Simple, emotional stories, particularly love stories, ate · ''in.\ Socially conscious, message movies, tired of the problems that surround them, tired of reality. The public· wants old-fashioned stories, simple a:nd sentimental. As Robert Evans, vice president of Paramount (and the man most responsible for the ~'packaging\ of Love Story) recently stated, \Love St~ry has already altered the 'new' Hollywood beyo.nd ready recognition.- The place where e~ecutives put away their cigars and grew sideburns overnight, the industry that was welcoming kids from U.C.L.A. with a Bolex and a two-page outline suddenly it is in show business again. At Paramount, we learned a long four-year, expensive lesson. From now on we make our kind of pictures. No directors who have fittai cut. WE have final cut. Paul Newman may be one of our best actors, but he will not be allowed to make more WUSA's to salve his liberal conscience. From now on there will he no concessions to swingers or stars over here. The story .is the.. star.\ Edd Henry, vice president ·of MCA agrees: \The old film styles will be popula& again. There will be wann, pleasant love stories.\ The \return to -romance\ is already beginning. Ryan's Daughter has opened and marty other love stories, · modem and classic, are on the boards at every major studio. - People are tired of explicit sex . and violence (Beyond The Valley of The Dolls, .Myra Breckinridge), films exploiting the ·youth market (Strawbeny Statement, Zabriskie Point), messa·ge movies that overbearingly - preach- (S.;tldier Blue). But hopefully, people will never tire of well-done films that are thought-provoking and meaningful. There is something very disturbing and, indeed . simple- minded, about the new trend in the industry. First _of all, Love Story is a terrible film., by no means a :fi4t1. upon which any trend should be based. Its failure . is not so much that it is merely a simple, sentimental, romantic \story\ that aspires to be nothing more than entertainment. Some of the most interesting and delightful films ever made offer nothing more - than these qualities. This type of movie is called \kitsch'; ;_ but there iS a good kitsch and bad kitsch and Love Story is defmitely the latter. It is inadequately conceived, technically in-executed, and for all its. contrived sentimentality and programmed - emotional responses on the part of the audience, a cold, lifeless, unappealing film. At any rate, the greater question: is not whether Love St~ry should be the basis of a trend, but whether any film should be the basis o:C a 'tFend1 <It is- quite obvious that American film industry executives and filmmakers are extremely concerned about making the type of movies that the public wants to see. After all, film in America is for filmmakers and executives foremost a business, and for the public,- primarily an entertainment. It is considered an art by a relatively small percentage of each. group. Therefore, it is not surprising. or even sh.amefu1 that the film industry is obsesst:;d with pleasing the public. The disa.ppeintment with this obsession is that rn• st industry .leaders are concerned about public taste to the exclusion of a concern about the artistic quality of the films they make. Films that are critically and finanoia.Uy successful can be made (M• A•s•H, Bonnie . and James Earl 'Jones. polishing off the white hope in \The Great White Hope.\ Clyde). H()wever, the Hollywood attitude seems to be \money talks.\ If a film .makes money, it means that the people iike it and if the people like it, the film is good. Favorable reviews .from critics who reflect average public taste are considered beneficial. Favorable reviews from critics who . write for . sophisticated newspapers and periodicals are appreciated, but are far less important. Became the most certain way to tap public taste is to imitate previously successful films, fiim industry leaders rely heavily on trends .. The irony of this method rests upon the fact that few of the films are ever as popular or successful as the one that started the trend and mast of them tum out to be unquestionable failures. Nevertheless, following a trend is considered easier and less expensive th.an gambling on unproven content or style. Following a trend; if not completely safe, is still the safest way to make a film. This may be the way to make a financially successful film (although by historic precedents, evert this is doubtful), but it is certainly n()t the way to make a \good\ film. Observing the better films that have been made, it becomes apparent that concern for the quality of the film must be primary and concern for the money it can make must be secondary ..1 if considered at aU. The makers of the;: film must have a concern and feeling for the subject matter as well as . a I I • commensura-te ta ent m execution; Thus, the better film is usually the personal film, whether it is made under studio auspices (Ritchcock, Fotd, Hawks, Cukor) or in a freer attnosphere .(Welles, Peckinpah, Altman). That is why tnany of the ''great\ directors· (Renoir, Truffaut, Chabrol) are Europeans work:ing independent of any studio c·ontrol For even Welles and Peckilillah, although more or less independent, have suffered drastically from the slightest , relationships with studios. • • • * not as gQod. Nevertheless, whatever explanation is offered for a critic's li~tt of the best films many people are inevitably dissatisfied with his choices. They are disturbed about the films lie does choose and disappointed about those he doesn't. Perhaps, the people's most violent reactions occur when the critic chooses films that they haven't even heard of. Unfortunately, it is often the case that many of the year~s better films are given little publicity and - limited distribution. This is particularly true about last year's group of film.s. Therefore, i have composed my list with the hope that people won't react against my choices because of unfamiliarity, but rather -will accept the choices and attempt to see the films. The following are the films I consider to he the best of the year. The order in which I will discuss them, however, is not meant to be .reflective of their comparative ex(.:ellence. To start off with, there is M• A*S*H, directed by Robert Altman and starring Elliot Gould, Don;tld Sutherland, and Sally Kellerman. One of the most popular and financially successful films of the year; (the only film on my best list that has had such good fortune) it is an hilariously irreverent black- comedy about the. U.S. Army (its officers men and women, doctors, and enlisted • men) stationed in Korea during that war. The extremely witty dialogue and comic situations cause a relentless flood of chuckles and bellylaughs, but the f req uen tly scathing h u m o r suggests a more serious underlying statement about the absurdity of the army way of life and the horrors of war. In addition to boosting the carrers of Gould, Sutherland, and Kellerman, M*A*S*H established ·Robert Altman as a major directorial talent, particularly in the area of fmadcap comedy, laced with rational overtones. George C. Scott. pausing en route to turning the tide against the /l(azis in \Patton.\ Altman's next film, BREWSTER McCLOUD, affirmed this judgment. It is a brilliantly absurd comedy-fantasy that is like no other film made in recent years. (By comparison, it makes M*A*S*H look sane.) It satririzes .corrupt government officials, policemen, the film BULLIT, -films in general, and many aspects of society. The comedy operates on . several neatly interwoven levels and is presented both verbally and visually with great style. Yet, (more so than in M*A*S*H) there is an. underlying seriousness, a pervasive tragic mood, that makes BREWSTER McCLOUD more than just a fun film. LOVING, directed by Irvin Kershner and starring George Segal and Eva Marie Saint, is a film about a frustrated artist who desi-gns advertisements. Completely harried by -the rat These criteria for \good'.:; race ~f life, .he seeks desperately, filmmaking _ meaningful bu~. •!i. v~m, the lover, t~e subject ~tter, belief, personal satlsfymg JOb, an~ the financ1al vision, imagination, creative and 1 success that he believes can of~er artistic ability - pften make the' fulfillm~~t .. Se~8f .a~ t~e ~~1st difference' beK'Veen the· best films and Samt . as bt~ : wtfe gt~~, of the year and those which are flawlessly natural performances CONCORDIENSIS, JAN. 29, 1971 PAGE 5 Robert Altman directing \M*A*S*H also brought \Brewster McCloud\ to the screen in 1970. and Kershner, in his direction, conveys with amazing accuracy and effectiveness, the frantic pace .of the lifestyle with which this artist is forced to cope. THE BALLAD OF CABLE HOGUE, directed by Sam Peckinpah and starring Jason Robards, Stella Stevens: and David - Warner, is the third Peckinpah film dealing with the westerner facing the onslaught of civilization at the beginning of the twentieth century. Robards, Stevens, - and Warner offer stylized performances which are quite good, but THE BALLAD OF CABLE HOGUE is Peckinpah's film. He is definitely one of the best Ameican directors in film today. As in his previous projects, RIDE THE HIGH COUNTRY and THE WILD BUN€H '·he·· demollStrates a- thorough knowledge of an feeling for his subject and treats it with a mixture of humor, sadness, 1 sentiment, nostalgia, realism, and lyricism that is extremely effective and absorbing. MISSISSIPPI MERMAID, ·directed by Francois Truffaut and starring Jean-Paul Belmondo and Catherine Deneuve is a sentimental, tongue- in-cheek melodrams and love story. The plot is Hitchcockian, the direction is Truffaut tinged with Hitchcock, the film is dedicated to Jean Renoir, and the result is delightful. Belmondo plays a plantation-owner (on an island off the coast of Africa) who falls in love with his mail- order bride (Deneuve.) She absconds to France with all of his money and he goes to look for her. Belmondo and -Deneuve as usual g.ive exceptionally convmcmg performances and Truffaut, imaginatively using his knowledge . of film history and technique, proves once again that he is one of the most talented directors in the world today. Truffaut's THE WILD CIDLD is also one of the best films of the year. It is a simple, crisply objective film about an eighteenth century doctor who tries to educate a wild child found in the forests of Southern France. It is vastly different from MISSISSIPPI MERMAID in style and content, but Truffaut demonstrates that same brilliant knowledge of film technique. THE Wll.D CIDLD is a rare experience, intellectually stimulating and emotionally . moving. TRISTANA, directed by Luis Bunuel and starring Catherin Deneuve, is a haunting psychological drama about a sexually repressed girl who as a result of certain events in her life, slowly moves from a state of innocent joy and feeling to a state of bitter hatred and coldness. Deneuve handles her role skillfully with the gradual changes of character that are necessary. Bunuel, also one of the best directors in the world today,. skillfully weaves - an intriguing psychological spider web. -l have not yet had the opportunity to see Chabrol's THIS MAN MUST DIE, Rohmer's MY NIGHT AT MAUD'S, · or Petri's INVESTIGATION OF A CITIZEN ABOVE SUSPICION. but based upon the articles that I have read about these films and my experiences with Chabrol's previous films, I have little doubt that they too should be included among the best films of the year. THE PASSION OF ANN.A (A PASSION) is good Bergman, which means that it is better than most films. It is the most comprehensible film that he has made in the last few years and quite fascinating to watch; but I found the film too \cold\ to relate to it in a more than objective way. Some of the better films of 1970, films that because of some basic flaws do not make the best list, are Arthur Penn's LITTLE BIG MAN, Mike Nichols' CATCH-22, FELLINI SATYRICON, Frank and Eleanor Perry's DIARY OF A MAD HOUSEWIFE, Bob Rafelson'sFIVE EASY PIECES, ·and Costa-Ga vras' THE CONFESSION. Films not already mentioned that are worth seeing, specifically because they contain particularly good acting performances are: PATTON starring George C. Scott, WOM-EN IN LOVE starring Glenda Jackson and Alan Bates, HUSBANDS starring John Cassavettes, Ben . Gazmra. and Peter Falk, and THE GREAT WHITE HOPE starring James Earl Jones and Jane Alexander. .FUm ~ap~ Presents \STOLEN KISSES'' directed by FRANCOIS TRUFFAUT SAT. JAN. 30 and SUN •. JAN. 31 7:00 ~:00 11:00 S$016 · · · $1.00: , \ ' \

y the the film the jows blue usive the into y the j by the and of are of if his is e is lity is nee and on My the of by een I see its Ner he nt if re &. .,(. •\·'' f 1,. I • !( (., ' ..... e S . I ,, . 1'.1 More Film Trends From Page 3 overwhelming box office sHccess. It wm apparently make more money that Airport (seven.th largest money-maker in history according to Variety) and possible even come close to surpassing The Sound of Music (second largest money-maker) and Gone With The Wind (largest money-maker). With Love Story, the leaders . of Hollywood found the film upon whicll to start a trend. A recent advertisement of Twentieth- Century Fox contained a quote The Film Look for '71 is the look of love - that all-time box office pulling emotion that has been re- established as an industry cornerstone for success in the seventies.\ This seems to be the opinion of most film industry executives. Simple, emotional stories, particularly love stories, are \in.\ Socially conscious, message movies, tired of the problems that surround them, tired of reality. The public wants old-fashioned stories, simple and sentimental. As Robert Evans, vice president of Paramount (and the man most responsible for the .. packaging\ of Love Story) recently stated, \\Love Story has already altered the 'new' Hollywood beyond ready recognition. The place where executives put away their cigars and grew sideburns overnight, the industry that was welcoming kids from U.C.L.A. with a Bolex and a two-page outline suddenly it is in show business again. At Paramount, we learned a long four-year, expensive lesson. From now on we make our kind of pictures. No directors who have final cut. WE have final cut. Paul Newman may be one of our best actors, but he will not be allowed to make more WUSA's to salve his liberal conscience. From now on there will be no concessions to swingers or stars over here. The story is the star.\ Edd Henry, vice president of MCA agrees: \The old film styles will be popular: again. There will be warm, pleasant love stories.\ The \return to romance\ is already beginning. Ryan's Daughter has opened and many other love stories, modern and classic, are on the boards at every major studio. People are tired of explicit sex and violence (Beyond The Valley of The Dolls, .Myra Breckinridge), films exploiting the youth market (Strawberry Statement, Zabriskie Point), message movies that overbearingly . preach. (Soldier Blue). But hopefully, people will never tire of well-done films that are thought-provoking and meaningful. There is something very disturbing and, indeed simple- minded, about the new trend in the industry. First of all, Love Story is a terrible film, by no means a ·film. upon which any trend should be based. Its failure is not so much that it is merely a simple, sentimental, romantic \'story\ that aspires to be nothing more than entertainment. Some of the most interesting and delightful films ever made offer nothing more . than these qualities. This type of movie is called \kitsch\ - but there is a good kitsch and bad kitsch and Love Story is defmitely the latter. It is inadequately conceived, technically ill-executed, and for all its. contrived sentimentality and programmed . emotional responses on the part of the audience, a cold, lifeless, unappealing film. At any rate, the greater question is not whether Love Story should be the basis of a trend, but whether any film should be the basis of a trend. It is · quite obvious that American CONCORDIENSIS, JAN. 29, 1971 PAGE 5 film industry executives and filmmakers are extremely concerned about making the type of movies that the public wants to see. After all, film in America is for filmmakers and executives foremost a business, and for the public, ~rimarily an entertainment. It is considered an art by a relatively small percentage of each growp. Therefore, it is not surprising or even shameful that the film industry is obsessed with pleasing the public. The disappointment with this obsession is that w >t industry leaders are concerned about public taste to the exclusion of a concern about the artistic quality of the films they make. Films that are critically and financially successful can be made (M*A*S*H, Bonnie and not as good. Nevertheless, whatever explanation is offered for a critic's list of the best films many people are inevitably dissatisfied with his choices. They are disturbed about the films he does choose and disappointed about those he doesn't. Perhaps, the people's most violent reactions occur when the critic chooses fiJ.ms that they haven't even heard of. Unfortunately, it is often the case that many of tlle year's better films are given little publicity and limited distribution. This is particularly true about last year's group of films. Therefore, I have composed my list with the hope that people won't react against my choices because of unfamiliarity, but rather . will accept the choices and attempt to see the films. The following are the films I consider to be the best of the year. The order in which I will discuss them, however, is not meant to be reflective of their comparative excellence. To start off with, there is M*A*S*H, directed by Robert Altman and starring Elliot Gould, Donald Sutherland, and Sally Kellerman. One of the most popular and financially successful films of the year, (the only film on my best list that has had such good fortune) it is an hilariously irreverent black- comedy about the U.S. Army (its officers men and women, doctors. and enlisted Robert Altman directing \M* A*S* H,\ also brought \Brewster McCloud\ to the screen in 1970. James Earl Jones polishing off the white hope in \The Great White Hope.\ Clyde). However, the Hollywood attitude seems to be '\money talks.\ If a film makes money, it means that the people like it and if the people like it, the film is good. Favorable reviews from critics who reflect average public taste are considered beneficial. Favorable reviews from critics who write for sophisticated newspapers and periodicals are appreciated, but are far less important. Because the most certain way to tap public taste is to imitate previously successful films, film industry leaders rely heavily on trends. The irony of this method rests upon the fact that few of the films are ever as popular or successful as the one that started the trend and most of them turn out to be unquestionable failures. Nevertheless, following a trend is considered easier and less expensive than gambling on unproven content or style. Following a trend, if not completely safe, is still the safest way to make a film. This may be the way to make a financially successful film (although by historic precedents, even this is doubtful), but it is certainly not the way to make a \'good\ film. Observing the better films that have been made, it becomes apparent that concern for the quality of the film must be primary and concern for the money it can make must be secondary J if considered at alL The makers of the film must have a concern and feeling for the subject matter as well as a commensurate talent in execution. Thus, the better film is usually the personal film, whether it is made under studio auspices (Hitchcock, Ford, Hawks, Cukor) or in a freer atmosphere (Welles, Peckinpah, Altman). That is why many of the \great\ directors· (Renoir, Truffaut, Chabrol) are Europeans working independent of any studio control For even Welles and Peckinpah, although more or less independent, have suffered drastically from the slightest relationships with studios. * * * * · men) stationed in Korea during that war. The extremely witty dialogue and comic situations cause a relentless flood of chuckles and bellylaughs, but the frequently scathing humor suggests a more serious underlying statement about the absurdity of the army way of life and the horrors of war. In addition to boosting the carrers of Gould, Sutherland, and Kellerman, M* A*S* H established Robert Altman as a major directorial talent, particularly in the area of !madcap comedy, lacec! with rational overtones. George C. Scott, pausing en route to turning the tide against the Nazis in \Patton.\ Altman's next film, BREWSTER McCLOUD, affirmed this judgment. It is a brilliantly absurd comedy-fantasy that is like no other film made in recent years. (By comparison, it makes M*A*S*H look sane.) It satnnzes .corrupt government officials, policemen, the film BULLIT, . films in general, and many aspects of society. The comedy operates on several neatly interwoven levels and is presented both verbally and visually with great style. Yet, (more so than in M* A *S*H) there is an. underlying seriousness, a pervasive tragic mood, that makes BREWSTER McCLOUD more than just a fun film. LOVING, directed by Irvin Kershner and starring George Segal and Eva Marie Saint, is a film about a frustrated artist who designs advertisements. Completely harried by .the rat These criteria for \good'.:' race ~f life, .he seeks desperately, filmmaking _ meaningful bu~ t? ':am, the lov~r, t~e subject matter, belief, personal sattsfymg JOb, an~ the fmanc1al vision, imagination, creative and 1 success that he believes can of~er artistic ability _ often make the fulfillme~t. Segal .as t~e ar~tst difference between the best films and Samt as hts. Wlfe gtve of the year and those which are flawlessly natural performances and Kershner, in his direction, conveys with amazing accuracy and effectiveness, the frantic pace of the lifestyle with which this artist is forced to cope. THE BALLAD OF CABLE HOGUE, directed by Sam Peckinpah and starring Jason Robards, Stella Stevens, and David . Warner, is the third Peckinpah film dealing with the westerner facing the onslaught of civilization at the beginning of the twentieth century. Robards, Stevens, and Warner offer stylized performances which are quite good, but THE BALLAD OF CABLE HOGUE is Peckinpah's film. He is definitely one of the best Ameican directors in film today. As in his previous projects, RIDE THE HIGH COUNTRY and THE WILD BUNCH · he demonstrates a thorough knowledge of an feeling for his subject and treats it with a mixture of humor, sadness, sentiment, nostalgia, realism, and 1 lyricism that is extremely effective and absorbing. MISSISSIPPI MERMAID, ·directed by Francois Truffaut and starring Jean-Paul Belmondo and Catherine Deneuve is a sentimental, tongue- in-cheek melodrams and love story. The plot is Hitchcockian, the direction is Truffaut tinged with Hitchcock, the film is dedicated to Jean Renoir, and the result is delightful. Belmondo plays a plantation-owner (on an island off the coast of Africa) who falls in love with his mail- order bride (Deneuve.) She absconds to France with ail of his money and he goes to look for her. Belmondo and .Deneuve as usual give exceptionally convmcmg performances and Truffaut, imaginatively using his knowledge . of film history and technique, proves once again that he is one of the most talented directors in the world today. Truffaut's THE WILD CJDLD is also one of the best films of the year. It is a simple, crisply objective film about an eighteenth century doctor who tries to educate a wild child found in the forests of Southern France. It is vastly different from MISSISSIPPI MERMAID in style and content, but Truffaut demonstrates that same brilliant knowledge of film technique. THE WILD CIDLD is a rare experience, intellectually stimulating and emotionaliy moving. TRIST ANA, directed by Luis Bunuel and starring Catherin Deneuve, is a haunting psychological drama about a sexually repressed girl who as a result of certain events in her life, slowly moves from a state of innocent joy and feeling to a state of bitter hatred and coldness. Deneuve handles her role skillfully with the gradual changes of character that are necessary. Bunuel, also one of the best directors in the world today, skiUfully weaves. an intriguing psychological spider web. . L have not yet had the opportunity to see Chabrol's THIS MAN MUST DIE, Rohmer's MY NIGHT AT MAUD'S, or Petri's INVESTIGATION OF A CITIZEN ABOVE SUSPICION. but based upon the articles that I have read about these films and my experiences with Chabrol's previous films, I have little doubt that they too should be included among the best films of the year. THE PASSION OF ANNA (A PASSION) is good Bergman. which means that it is better than most films. It is the most comprehensible film that he has made in the last few years and quite fascinating to watch, but l found the film too ••cold\ to relate to it in a more than objective way. Some of the better films of 1970, films that because of some basic flaws do not make the best list, are Arthur Penn's LITTLE BIG MAN, Mike Nichols' CA TCH-22, FELLINI SATYRICON, Frank and Eleanor Perry's DIARY OF A MAD HOUSEWIFE, Bob Rafelson's FIVE EASY PIECES, and Costa-Gavras' THE CONFESSION. Films not already mentioned that are worth seeing, specifically because they contain particularly good acting performances are: PATTON starring George C. Scott, WOMEN IN LOVE starring Glenda Jackson and Alan Bates, HUSBANDS starring John Cassavettes, Ben . Gazzara, and Peter Falk, and THE GREAT WHITE HOPE starring James Earl Jones and Jane Alexander. _Film Hap~ Presents \STOLEN KISSES'. directed by FRANCOIS TRUFFAUT SAT. JAN. 30 and SUN. JAN. 31 7:00 9:00 SS016 11:00 $1.00

·'PAGE6 CONCORDIENSISn JAN. 29, 1971 Job Opportunities LIDRARY CADETS With five months relilaining before summer vacation, many summer job opening!' are quickly disappearing. An opportunity for early application to the 1971 Library Cadet Corps it! being offered by Library Careers, federally funded program to recruh fot librarianship in a 14,000 square mile area in Central and Southern New York State, Using as the year's theme, The Age .of Librarious, the Library Cadet Corps is in its third year of interesting college students in the vocational and community challenge of library work. No matter what astrological sign a student may have, he or she may qualify for appointment as a 1971 Library Cadet if: l. the junior year in college will be completed by June, 19'71, and 2. The home residence is in the area served by one of these five library systems, Chemung-South~;:rn Tier, Finger Lakes; Four- County, Mid- York and Onondaga. Included are the following counties: Allegany, Broome, Cayuga, Chemung, Chenango, Cortland, Delaware, Herkimer, Madison, Oneida, Onondaga, Otsego, Schuyler, Seneca, Steuben, Tioga, Tompkins and Yates. This is one of the best summer job opportunities open to students, paying $90 per week for eight weeks while the Cadet receives practical on-the-job experience in a field that may prove to be a life work, according to Miss Mary D. Quint, director of Library Careers. The 1971 Library Cadet program is scheduled for June 14 to August 6. As nearly as possible, work assignments . will be made to libraries located close to each Cadet's home. Supplementary tours , and discussions also are planned to· give the Cadets a well rounded view of the library profession. Application blanks are available from the college placement office, area libraries or by writing to Library Careers, 731 James Street, Syracuse, New York 13203. Deadline is March 31, but early applications may be sent now. * * * * JOBS IN EUROPE vaining. The purpose of this program is to afford the student an opportunity to get into reallivio,g contact with the people and customs of Europe. In this way, a concrete effort can be made to learn something of the culture of Europe. In return for his or her work, the student will receive his or her room and board, plus a wage. However, student should keep in mind that they will be working on the European economy and wages will naturally be scaled accordingly. The working conditions (hours, safety, regulations, legal protection, work permits) wiU be strictly controlled by _the labor ministries of the countries involved. In most cases, the employers have requested especially for American students. Hence, they are particularly interested in the student and want to make the work as interesting as possible. They are all informed of the intent of the program, and will help the student all they can in deii,Jinglthemost from his trip to Europe. Please write for further information and 'app.lication forms to: American-European Student-Service, Box 34733, FL 9490 Vadu~;- Liechtenstein (Europe). Students Work At T.V. Station by RICHARD LEE KRAMER For the first time in the college's history numbers of Union students have become involved with the operation of a television station. Several students, under the aegis of the course in filmmaking and television, became volunteer work interns at local educational UHF Station WMHT- TV channel 17. Those students enrolled in the greatly oversubscribed course m filmmaking found their way into production, documentary cinematography, studio operations, film editing, and acting. In addition to volunteer positions at channel 17, other Union students have made use of station facilities in order to create community programming. For · example, Michel A. Williams '71, appeared with children from the Hamilton Hill Art Workshop in a special program featuring tribal dance. Donald Jones arid other interested Union students currently plan to produce programming on housing and other vital community problems. Students who wish to become involved with Channel l7 are invited to telephone Mr. Willard Stone at tbe WMHT-TV studios at 356-1700. Students in need of transportation to the station, located in Rotterdam, are requested to call Rich Kramer at 377-9280. Channel 17 is now in preparation for its annual fund- raising television auction June 6- 12, and is in need of students to help in all phases of auction planning, publicity and production. Last year, Union student Dennis Fazio took part in the station's tech crew during the auction, but the station looks toward greater student involvement this year. All pledges must change over meal cards with, SAGA 'FOOD service before February 1st. Any house having pledges with reguhu' meal cards · will be be reimbursed for pledge meals. Job opportunities in Europe this summer ... Work this .summer in the forests of Germany, on construction in Austria, on farms in Germany, Sweden and Denmark, on road construction. in Norway, in Industries in France and Germany, in hotels in The COFFEEHOUSE presents ROSALIE SORRELS FRIDAY NJ.GIIT - IN THE RATHSKELLAR 11 P.M. (AFTER \TANGO\) Absolutely FREE Switzerland. Continental Study Projects, Inc., specialists in study/travel . holidays abroad, again announces its Coll~g~ Budget special for the sum:mer of 1971. The 60-day holiday bargain starts June 28th and returns on August 26th.. lt includes: scheduled roundtrip transatlantic jets, overnight in Paris, one month ef living and study at an accredited University, a two months Eurailpass for extensive travel. ' Students can choose from a list of accredited Universities in Britain, France, Spain, Austria and Italy. Courses include language, literature, history, the arts, and others. there is also a choice of living accommodations in student residences or with selected families. Excursions,::ate included to points of interest; plenty of time is allowed for social events and sports. The Eurailpass allows unlimited travel for two months. Students may go anywhere they like on the continent of Europe, stopping over as long as they wish. Continental has othe:r programs escorted a:nd unescorted·- appealing to those with special interests, many of which allow students to use their own schooJ charters. For more information and. a copy of the 1'971 brochure, contact Continental Study Projects Inc., 527 Madison Ave., New York, New York, 10022. Telephone (212) PL2-8887. * * * * The next session of the Student.:Faculty Bridge Club will be held on Feb. 9 at the Hale House Faculty Lounge at 7:45 p.m. All those interested in participating are welcome. * * * * \WRUC Presents., Leapin' Leiderman at ·9:00 P.M., Monday night, February 1st. * * * * PYE (Protect Your Environment) will meet on Mon., Feb. 1 at 4:30 p.m. in the S.S. Loung~. Any interested persons are cordially invited to attend. AMERICAN HANDICRAFTS Co. • PLASTIC FLOWER SUPPLIE~ !t DECOUPAGE • LIQU•o PLASTIC • MOSAICS • COPPER ENAMEJ. • LAMPS • CANDLE SUPPLIES • KITS FOR GROUPS FREE CATALOGUE MAIL ORDERS Located With The Radio Shack COLONIE I s~~~~G 459-1362 Well there are these jobs available as well as jobs in Ireland, England, France, Italy: and Holland are open by the consent of the governments of these countries to American university students coniing to Europe the next summer. For several years students made their way across the · Atlantic through A.E.S.-Service to take part in the actual life of the people of these countries. The success of this project has caused a great deal of enthusiastic interest and support both in CrQmming f f • . I. I . or 1na s. Feed your brain at America and Europe. ' . The Bloodmobile will return to Union on Monday, Feb. 1 from 10 a.1Dz.-4p.m, No appointment is necessary. * * * \' There will be a Spanish table· every Mon. at 12:30 in West College. * * * * There will be a French Table every Mon, and Fri. afternoons at 12:30 in the West College dinning room. * * * * Anyone interested in an expanded Drama Department at Union should attend a meeting on Monday, Feb. l at 12:50 p.m. in Hu 019. The meeting will be with Prof. Curtis who wants to hear wbat students have to say on this subject. * *' * * There will be a meeting of those members. of Union College's Intercollegiant Bridge Team who are going'to R.P.l, in Feb. Please meet with Hob Lavin in room 321 Davidson . or call him at 393-0086. * * * * with Rod St~war.t Kenny Janes, Ronnie Lane, · lan McLagen & Ron W11o~ THE GREASE BAND (formeriJ with Jne Cacker) Saturday and Sunday, Feb. 13 & 14 SUPER SHOW The English Rock, Blues, Jazz film with Led Zepplin, Steve Stills, Eric Clapton, Buddy Mills, M;J.Q., Roland Kirk, Dallas Taylor, Coleseum, and others Continuous at 7:15, 9:15 & 11 P.M. Admission $3.00 Coming: Byrds, Cactus,, . 1 Q Yrs. After, Elton John, Hot Tuna; Willie Dixon, stapple Singers and. many, many others Publicity: New Concept Assoc's, Inc. Production & Sound: Nat'IStudent . Productions, Inc. N.v.c. & campbell, Calif. Progr!)mming: Ashwood llouse, Ltd. .~:135 Nott Terrace Every year, the program has been expanded to include many. more students and jobs. Already, many students have made application for next summer · b A rt'can European Except where Indicate!!• 2 shows nightly at J o s. me . · - 7:30 & 11:30 P.M., seatfng by section/Ticket Student Service (on a non- Mon.-Thurs. ln.fJII (518) 434·3345 ~Business office: (518) Profitab le basis) is offering these 434·2119 - N.Y,C. (21~). JU2·0909. \Be sure 1 0 · ·11 to get stub and hand stamped upon entering jobs to students for Germany, · a.m. - p.m. show.\ Mail orders: Check or money order Scand inavia. ' England, Austria, F . s· t payable to \Nat'l Student Productions, Inc.\ rt.- Q , . BoX 71:2, Alb., N.Y. 12201. Enclose self-ad· Switzerland, France, Italy· , l;l:nd ' dressed stamped envelope & specifY date & 1 Oa m 2 a m time. Orders received l wk. before show will • Spain. The jobs consist of • • · • • be held at box office. l.lntil show time. Box f k h 'ld k 5 n office opens at 2 P.M. daY of $how. Remain· orestry wor , c 1 care wor · U · • lng tickets available one .week pr.ior (through (females only), farm work, hotel 1 0 1 2 day preceding show): Albany.: MABOU, 238 ) . a.m. O.m. Washington Ave. 434·3290~ Schenectady: THE work (limited numbrr available , OTHE.R SIDE OF TODAY, 135 Jay st. 34.6·9108~· . k d m Mohawk Mall: .CRYSTAL MANSION & DROM construction wor , an so e · souND; ·troyt THE MUSIC SHACK, 97 Con· other mo·re . qualified johs , · ·; ; ~ · '·' •; gres.s st. :2'7a·t400, · · requiring more spw~lized~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ;• ·' J 1 •

0 f y at rder nc.\ & will Box 238 THE Con- . ) ., {. ·' J CONCORDIENSIS,· JAN. 29, 1971 PAGE 7 ''Jango/~Satirical. Comedy Students To See by BRUCE ll. HUSTEN Des.pite the incredible (aud I mean th.atliterally) 1,1nevenness of the entire productio,n, the Mountebanks have finally hit on a real winner in their current production ·of \Tangn a satirical comedy py Slawomir Mrozek. I have long been critical of the Mountebanks in their insistence on choosing Pintersque plays which are inherently difficult to comprehend and thereby. almost impossible for am.ateurs to stage successfully . But this time, happily, they have compremised by choosing a · play which is neither incomprehensible oil the one hand nor undramatically-simple on the other. Aild they have done it justice. \Tango\ places us m a situation in which there is a Macbethian reversal of values, where the aging parents and grandparents live in an amtrchistic world of neither rules nor expectations. In comes .son Arthur, however, craving rebellion of one sort· or another but frustrated in his quest becavse his elders \have been nonconformists so long that there aren't any conventions left to rebel again&t.~· So Arthur plots a series of coups. His first attempt to revert to the old standards falls, so he res«,>rts to a game of power in which the lives of his relatives are placed in his hands. That fails too and there is nothi'lg left for Arthur to do but ·to ,be killed himself. Underlying the .,.entire 1 ,lay is the built-in assumption that the very absurdity of the whole situation is in fact just the opposite, that the events we are witJ;J.e~ssing on stage are part'-of a vel'¥ normal day-to-day existence of a very normal family. In this sense \Tango\ is reminiscent of Joe Orton's plays (\What the Butler Saw,\ ••Loot,\ ''Entertaining Mr. Sloane\) whose success rests on their ability to pull off the reversai of values not jus~ hysterically, but primarily with enough sul?tlety so that the audience's acceptance of the new values makes up the very foundation .of the play. . I must qualify my initial criticism that this is an \uneven\ production with the note that this review is based on a dress rehearsal and not a scheduled performanct!. Besides the obvious observation that many changes are made after a dress rehersal in all aspects of production, in a comedy such as \Tango the audience has a particularly- important role in the consideration of the play as a complete entity. While I am sure, therefore, that the quality of the play will be enhanced when it is performed with an audience, I would venture the guess nevertheless that all the uneven spots will not be ironed out. Don Tomei as Arthur, for example, has a difficult time in the first two acts giving any conviction: to his lines. When he announces to Ala at the end of Act I that he will \now explain everything,\ he doesn't even seem to have the courage pfhislack of convictions. It is a potent line with which to end an act and i hope Tomei puts some more gumption into it (and other similar lines) in the future. Similarly, Grace Sardell as Eieanor and with one notable exception, Elliott Bardsley as ~tomil have the same problem throughout the play. Bardsley's best moment comes in Act I when, as the spineless · father who spends his time on \artistic experiments,'' he puts on a nightmarish puppet show for his relatives. He has . obviously devoted a great deal of time to this scene and has made it into one of the best in the play. Tomei's pompous apathy of the first two acts is . ironically matched by his command of the last. There are more serious moments here which call for traditional, loud, emotional drama, I disagree with those WhG claim this type ·Of acting can be mastered by anyone. And even if that is so, Tomei exhibits such a metamorphosis in attitude that his effect in this last act is overpowering. I have come to the conclusion (having reviewed other student productions and having been accused of beil).g both \too soft\ and \too hard,\) that a critic of amateur theater must not apply standards of professional theater to an amateur production. Very · few student actors ever make - or indeed intend to make - the big league. Having said that, some words abeut the rest of the acting. I must pay tribute to Marnie Delaney who interprets the role of Ala as I had never anticipated when ·reading the script. I had thought of Ala as being of somewhat the same emotion.al makeup as Arthur, but Miss Delaney convinced me I was wrong. Her Ala is soft-spoken, naive, innocent, and loveable and, much to my surprise, there ~asn't amoment in the play when this interpretation seemed · incorrect. Abl;ly Schutzer has once again taken on a difficult role as Eugenia, the grandmother. I fear . she has gone a bit too far in her attempt to imitate the physical instability of the old but vivacious woman. The facial contortions, the wobbly legs, the V-shaped walk and the shaky voice are all overdone. Spencer Gates pulls off the role · of Uncle c Eugene with aplomb sulking here, grimacing there. He is a competent actor who sustains his performance throughout and was doubtless one of the outstanding contributors to this production. I cannot say enough about Bob Harders' reading of Eddie. Although I think he has flirted with the part by turning what was supposed to be a genuine villain into a hysterical caricature, he has done it so masterfully that there is room for nothing but praise. Throughout the play, when Harders' stage business is supposed to be secondary to the main action on the platform, his exaggerated gum-chewing and his ability to contort his face divert our attention to him. He has mastered the stereotyped strut of the shady hoodlum and uses it to his best advantage from beginning to end. Of all the Mountebanks actors I have seen; Harders (who did a commendable job last term in the difficult role of Wyzeck) seems to be the most versatile. It woul~f be tragic if he were not to pursue a career in acting. He and Gates, in fact, end this play by joining hands and giving a virtuoso Tango performance (under the able tutelage of Mrs. Carl George) th~t leads into the curtain calls. Doubtless it is the high point of the play. A special note o~ praise to the makeup people who have aged Miss Schu'tzer an<;l Mr. Gates very convincingly indeed· and who have blessed Mr. Harders with a scar that looks as if it is there for life. The light crews too deserve credit for pulling off \Tango\ so that one would never know the Nott Memorial Theater lighting board was worldng at far less than capacity. Henry Weil has proven in this play to be a masterful director who takes best advantage of the sometimes-awkward theater-in- the-round. I suspect several of the novel character readings in the play originated from him. And, as always, he 'has cast his actors with great sensitivity. You owe it, I think, not just to the Mquntebanks to see this play, but particularly to yourselves. I think that after seeing it you might feel the urge to take part in a Mountebanks production yourself. But even if • not, I'm sure you'll come away as pleased as I was that with \Tango the M<>untebanks have at last put theater on the Union College map. The Bejart- Ballet For Saturday, Feb. ,6th, Gail George and the modern dance students have chattered a bus which will leave Memorial Chapel at Union College at 8:00 a.m. for downtown Manhattan, picking up the passengers at the . Brooklyn Academy of Music after the evening performance of the Maurice Bejart Company, 1- Ballet of the 20th Century. Roundtrip bus fare is $6.10. A leading European ballet company based in Brussels, this company is now having its first American season, after critical acclaim in Europ'e, South America, Mexico, Montreal, Is rae!, and Leba non. The company is noted for its youthful vibrancy, evocativeness.. and sensuality. These traits will be well illustrated in the program scheduled for 8:30p.m., Feb. 6th: Choreographic Offering, Nomos Alpha, Erotica, and Le Sacre du Printemps (The Rites of Spring). Performance tickets are: Balcony $4, $3, $2; Mezzanine $6.50, $5.00 Orchestra $6.50, $5.00. 20 tickets at $3.00 have been ordered and will be sold to the first people requesting them. Jf you wish ones at another price, please just indicate that when you make your reservation. As Bejart said a few years ago, \Dance is a ritual. Each era must create its own rituals; those of our fathers have become empty and meaningless, cold and limited ... and young people who gather by the thousands to yell through the twist or the rock- n-roii their need for a new ritual, have deeply felt this necessity. The renovation of the dance is not a problem of esthetics and reaches beyond the world of art. It is a social question; a spiritual attitude, of a deep need where in· all notions of the separation of · body and mind become hollow and futile because in man they are indivisibly united.\ Differing with some others in the field, he asserts also that \the only art with which dance is intimately linked is music. Dance is not, as I have said sometimes before, sculpture in movement; dance is visual music. \And I believe that this, well understood, will aid us doubly. First of all, in studying the laws of music and the progress of musical thought through the centuries, we are able to apply in a valuable way these laws to choreography. Since music is infinitely tnore rich than dance in creative genuises and skillful theoreticians, we are able, thanks to music, to find examples and rules which transposed are immediately utilizable in the field of choreography. \Furthermore I believe that once we truly and profoundly understand those elements which unite dance and music, we will then much more easily be able to free dance from music. To see clearly the links which connect these two arts is also to be able to remove them. To understand how much dance is music and how much dance must think in terms of music should enable one to do without music sometimes; it allows ballet to exist without music and independently of music.\ WE CARRY A FULL LINE OF GROCERIES, Anyone is welcome to Jum v .... excursion for both the bus trip and Bejart performance or just for the bus trip. Since we need 41 people to fill the bus and thus make the price quoted viable, we welcome any who might just like a day in New York to make use of our good bus fare - but those wishing to go to the performance , also will be given priority. The deadline for reservations for performance and/ or bus, reservations is tuesday, February 2nd (if there is not enough intere('lt by then, we will MEATS, BEVERAGES, ASSORTED SNACK ITEMS, ETC. MEMBER BUY-RITE STORES OPEN 8 A.M. TILL 10 P.M. 7 DAYS A WEEK · cancel the trip.) No reservations will be held without receipt of the full amount of money payable by mail to Mrs. Carl George, c/o Biology Dept., Campus Mail or ~-~-----~-------------------~~ 1 in person at the old Chapel, ~ Monday 4:004:30 p.m.

•. PAGE 8 CONCORDIENSIS, JAN. 29, 1971 Concordy Sports Hoopsters Head North To B~ttle Tough 10-2 tarries by MARK SHUGOI.L Union's basketball team will attempt to rebound from last week's. streak-stoppirig loss to Wesleyan when they travel to St. Lawrence and Queens University of Kingston, Ontario, this weekend. A week ago Saturday, the Cardinals broke the Garnet's ten game winning skein with a 25 foot jump shot at the buzzer that dealt Union a 71-70 loss. The Dutchmen's only other loss came in their season opener when Harpur's Tom Gomulka hit from the top of the key in the Player G FG Tedisco, Jim 12 92 Bacher, Tom 12 85 Doyle, Mike 12 72 Shames, Dave 12 36 Walker, Geoff 12 23 Eichinger, Rein 11 20 Goldberg, Rich 6 10 Others lO 12 TEAM 12 350 OPPONENTS 12 329 final second to send Union to a 56-54 defeat. Thus, the Garnet's two losses have come by a total of three points and three seconds. At St. Lawrence on Friday night, Union will put its 10-2 .~ecord up against a 10-2 St. Lawrence team. Once again, the Garnet will be facing a significant height disadvantage. The Larries boast the Jenkins brothers, Jim at 6-5 and Bill at 6- 4, frosh guard Gerry James, and 6-3 forward Greg Lewis, who recently broke the school career scoring record. Last season, the Larries ran over Union 84-60 in FGA % FT .FTA % 209 .440 92 ll7 .786 150 .567 49 68 .720 126 .571 48 75 .640 93 .387 20 28 .715 59 .390 14 33 .424 34 .588 l1 18 .611 22 .454 3 4 .750 30 .400 4 11 .363 725 .482 241 352 .685 762 .431 165 258 .639 On Today' s Scene with BILL HOLLERAN Schenectady. On Saturday evening, the Garnet will make their first trek over the Canadian border in years to face Queens. The Canadian team features a predominately American lineup. Among Queens' outings this year is included a ten point loss to Utica College, who gave the Dutchmen fits oefore succumbing 89-7~ last week. Union r~turns to Memorial Fieldhouse on Tuesday night, hosting another Connecticut nemesis,. Trinity College. Reb. A sst Pts llo.Vg. 30 69 276 23.0 117 21 219 18.3 146 14 192 16.0 43 47 92 7;6 69 5 60 5.0 27 3 51 4.2 13 6 23 3.8 57 1 27 2.7 ... ICF'\\ 520-43.3 166 940 78.3 487-40.5 823 68.5 -I ·.NOW ,.. --, Balanc;:ed scoring and improved defense appear to be two of the big factors in the success of the 10-2 Garnet hoopster!. thus far this season, according to the latest team statistics released this week. are holding the opposition to a mere 68.5 points per outing. One big reason for the Garnet's vastly improved defense is their vastly improved rebounding. Last season Union could boast of only .one consistently good rebounder, Rit Gallucci, who pulled down 305 rebouuds in 22 games. Jim Getman, with. his total of 104, was the only other Union player to grab more than 100 rebounds. DIRECT FROM DENMARK When Gary Walters assumed the head coaching reins , after Chris Schmid's retirement last winter, he stated that he wanted to see Jim Tedisco scoring less this season. Many people gasped in fear that the youngest mentor in Garnet basketball history would attempt to tamper with the magical Tedisco, one of the most dazzling players in Garnet history. Walters qualified his statement by saying that he was not interested in shutting off Tedisco's point totals, but that he wanted to see more balance among Garnet scorers. Balance was hardly a term to be applied to the Union offense last winter. Tedisco dazzled opponents and crowds alike en route to a sensational 29.6 average, but ,he was the only player to average in double figures. Dave Shames was next on the year-end scoring parade with an 8.6 average. So far Walter's strategy appears to be working. Tedisco once again is leading all Garnet scorers, but his average has plummetted to a mere 23.0 points per game. Meanwhile, sophomore front court men Tom Bacher and Mike Doyle have chipped in with 18.3 and 16.0 averages, respectively. Tedisco is scoring less, but Garnet fans are enjoying it more. Last spring Walters also stressed that he would bring defense back to Union basketball. The 1969-70 edition of the Garnet cagers were not exactly stingy on defense, allowing 85.3 points per game · while averaging 78.1 on offense. This winter Union's scoring output per game is virtually the same, 78.3. The big difference is on defeflc::e where the Dutchmen This season the better- balanced Garnet have two strong 100-plus rebounders up front in boyle and Bacher, both 6-3. Doyle leads all Union rebounders so far with 146, while Bacher has grabbed 117. \ ••• A .. x film qf the afrongeat lclncf •.. ro .. •• l•r •• po .. lbl• ••• \ BAC~STAGE (1(RATED X) DAILY AT 1:30 3:30 .... 5:30 - 7:30 - 9:30 ,.. - _., ... . \\' COME SEE US FOR A SUNDAY OR A HOT CHOCOLATE 8tewaJtt.'8 ICE CREAM STORE 834 McClellan St. •For three Generations.' Those Who Know ••. Have been recommendi':'9 - HERSHEL MAURICE B WALttR •'3 Union Graduates in Graubart Family't 166 JAY ST. FOR HONEST SERVICE AND GOOD JEWELR'r .Mat.s' 31-11 lri.u.m·ph Default· Of Dartmouth by MARK MINDEL With ~one pin, one default,, and three forfeits the undefeated Qarnet grapplers amassed their highest point total of the season in demolishing a weak Dartmouth team, 31-11, on Wednesday. Frosh grapplers AI Calabro, Mark Zullo, and Howie Benedict raised their perfect records to 7-0. Dartmouth literally gave the match away by forfeiting the first three matches to Calabro, Zullo, and junior Len Solomon, but then closed the gap by taking t'he 142 class with a pin, and the 150 class by decisien. However, Union iced the victory \Vhen Gary Gurney; 158, recarded the team's second fastest pin of the year at 1:2l. Tracey Rich won his third straight match in the 167 Cla'ls when a sheulder inJury to his opponent stopped the match with Rich leading 2,0 in the third period. Pat Wardell, who owns the fastest pin of the year in one minute, ran into last year's 177 pound New England Frosh Champion; dropping a l2\'0 decision. Then Gary Morris raised hi& record to 5·2 with a 3-0 decision, and heavyweight Benedict took his man, s- .. 4. Tomorrow the 5-0 matmen face their toughest challenge thus far this winter against Kings Point. Rated a toss-l!p, the match could be swayed by a rowdy Garnet crowd. Key matches in the 2:30 contest should be the three lightweight rqatches and the heavyweight a1Iairs. And be sure not to miss Howie Benedict's warm-up. It's priceless. DOLLAR DAYS Gro,ups of SUITS SPORTCOATS OUTERWEAR PANTS SWEATERS SHIRTS NECKWEAR LEATHERCOATS SAVE 50% . ID{Jt . ~quirt ~bnp· _ - 3.26 STATE STREET, 377-3061 (!pell Thurs: 'til 9

