• ' ' '· - . ' 'New Politics FUn In Fitchburg Vol. 101, No. 44 ' photo by Mike Meserol~> • • . . by DAVID ENGEL By now, we !{re all aware of the victory of George McGovern of 46% to 11%; Time confidently McGovern in last week's Massachusetts' Primary. reported that the Maine Senator would win no less In that contest, the man from South Dakota than 90 of the Bay State's 102 delegates to the \easily\ smashed the remnants of the Muskie Convention in Miami. But with the spark pr()vided Bandwagon. I use the term ·~easily\ with a great by a strong finish in New Hampshire and an deal of reticence be.cause the landslide victory was impressive win in Wisconsin, the organization in gained only through the hard work, skill. and Massachusetts, with strong grass-roots support, dedication of thousands o~ vo.lunteers.. . • developed an attitude of c 0 nfidenc<,: to match its The McGovern Orgamzatwn, as tt operate~ m considerable .expertise am!. was able to piece Massachusetts, wa~ a most .power!ul, q~tckly · together an unbeatable coalition of workers, manufa~tured m~ch~ne. It was a .. machm7 _as .. flrml_Y . students, the poor and minority group members. root7d m ~he prm~1ple~. of the old pohtt~s as 1t With men and women in almost every precinct, was m the new pol.ltlcs.. There. was an obv10us lac~ the McGovern people were able to deliver the vote. of the starry-eyed Ideah~m which marked so much The McGovern Campaign worked in Massachusetts of the McCarthy Campaign of 1968. . because it was organized as an attempt to win votes, Th_ree months ~go, t~e Boston Globe reported not as an effort to conduct a moral crusade against that 1ts polls gave Musk1e a comfortable lead over Continued on Page- 3 founded at Union College. in 1877 SCHENECTADY, NEW YORK Wednesday, May 3, 1972 20.cents FAGA, SHERMAN IN RUN-OFF; JOIN: McCABE & MS. MILLER Students TO Pay For Overloads by PETER BICKERMAN At 1 this morning the smoke- filled rooms of Student Activities began to clear, and the only certainty for those who had been present was that no candidate in races of at least three persons by PHYLLIS R. EDELMAN At. the . April meeting of the Board of Trustees. the administration issued a policy statement concerning c-oUrse overloads and early . graduation. The proposal allows students who wish to accelerate their studies one course free of charge each academic year. It recorrirnends a surcharge of two hundred dollars for· each additional course taken above a course foad of ten. Pending recommendation and discussion the Trustees will vote on the proposal at their June meeting. A five page statement, issued from the Office of the Dean of Students, Charles Olton, outlines past administration po li.cy tow.ard·s fourth courses; alid reasons for the current pr0.posal. With the institution of the current 3-3-3 calendar in 1965, the enrollment in a fourth c~urse was to be considered a \rare exceptien,\ a \privilege granted primaril~ -to those students with high academic standing.'' Since that. time undergraduates have increasingly enrolled in fourth courses. Increased tuition costs and/ or less demanding curricula have spurred students to take overloads to graduate early. Last spring; · l(};% ( 16.1) · of the total number of· undergraduates were enrolled in fourth qmrses. In tbe.. fall and winter terms of 1971-1972 14% (247 . and 241 respectively) were taking fourth courses. Though no data can be supplied for this current term, indi((~ti~ns are th~t ep:r?lJrm~nts in fourth; fifth and even sixth cmfrses ate significantly higher. The taking of extra cotirses. has put an increased ~ehi~n~t · .. on faculty teaching capacities. ' . .Q* to the current buqg~t , P,rO:bl~ms ?f tli~., $a \lege; ;·,:tacli!!~Y. ~a,:la~y mcrelheiit& , have not nsen m accorda:lice with their increased teacliili~Joad. The . number of students eligible for ·early graduation has steadily grown due to their accumulation of sufficient credits to graduate early. Though the College realizes that many have a(fqUited the&e credits from Advanced Placement courses taken . in,' high school, or at · ! '.- • ' • ~ ~ : •.• : : . \ ' '~ '' ' \! . ~ ·-' ) ',. . ' summer school courses ta~en was able to attain a majority, a elsewhere, many also have taken situation which has resulted in fourth courses here, free of numemus runoff election.s charge. . · tortight. To the College, students who The contest attracting the fail to register for their spring greatest number of votes ( 1,063) - semester , .. represenr te~d-~lost- \was lhaf; of the referendum income ... for it ·is impossible to asking students to allocate 10% replace them with transfer.\ of their tax funds for the Since 1968-69 the College has recruitment of minority group lost for tuition alone, fro~.eleve~ applicants. This proposal was thousand dollars up to thirty ... five rejected by the following vote: thousahd dollars for this current 607 against, 456 for. Mark year~ Coven, one of 'those who . ' .,. .... u uy :.-.cott t•ordon Pre.slde!t~i.al hopeful Marty Sherman (right) sits o:Jt close 1ote. The following contains spearheaded the campaign Independent division of fragmentation in this election. portions of the proposal, supporting the referendum, preference was apparent but not The position of student recommended b·y the commented that the vote did not absolute_ The fact that 270 member on the Board of Trustees administration to the Board of .go \as badly as I thought the people voted for other candidates · was hotly contested, wtth the Trustees: Union campus would vote,\ and indica. tes the uncertainty of the f allowing results: Tim McCabe students wishing to accelerate he added that with continued runoff. 387, Peggy Miller 322 (out of their studies may enroil in one effort \we'll win some day.\ In the contest for the vice- . 1,041). McCabe .and Miller now additional course each academic The presidential race, in which presidency Don Foley gained a face each other in a runoff year free of charge; 1,045 votes were cast, ended in a clear lead with 381 votes, but centering around the \swing other additional courses may somewhat expected first-round Tom Burbank joined him in the vote\ which had gone to the be taken o~ly upon payment of a deadlock: Tony Faga 440, Marty runoff with 235 votes. The total other candidates. $200.00 tuition surcharge for Sherman 349. Fraternity- of 912 ballots is evidence of the There were no races for each such course:. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~-.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-~crdary·Woon Boohleyw~t~ ..... - ·~ only candidate) or On The Road representatives to the College · Senate from Divisions I and III: Gentleme~ Blow Your Lunch ~.~y~~:·~::~1v~'·~:;:;~:~~ victors. by JOHN QUiRK The Division II race has and SEV BONNIE resulted in a runoff between Dan If you were there at the G.E. Wolfe with 88 votes, and gate in 1970 your experience at Howard Kritzer. with 75 votes Union has had some meaning. If (out of 263). Division IV students you were there in the fieldhouse were presented with a two- for Hamilton v. Jimmy i.'s candidate election, and they traveling. roundball revival chose William John Hartman you've had excitement and over Robin Waring by a count of happiness enter into your college 126 to 115. The contest for at- career. But if you were at the large representative, which First Annual Chi Psi 1nvitati6nal attracted three candidates and Beer Ralleye last Tuesday you 720 voters, has evolved into a may as wen quit· school because runoff between C. Elliott nothing more can b.e Bardsley (266 votes) and Sam accomplished you've \lived your King (228 votes). life with . all the gusto you can It is difficult to draw . any grab.'' important conclusions from these Perhaps out of desire to make .RALL·EY. E STALWARTS·. Bob H pbotdo byMEm.okMartin · initial results; perhaps the runoffs the northern run up Route 50 a esse an l e will tell us more about the nature little less desolete, or perhaps out Sciacca loosen lfP with their respective strengths. of College voting behavior. One of the college desire to attain the from the crew had to sprint from reporter, are given. question that may be answered coveted ricense to be obnoxious, D'Andrea's to the Hub and then Anxiously waiting the tonight is that of the existence or a contest was instituted to see inhale their last beer before their, countdown for the start, 1 check absence of the fraternity .. bloc which team of five (four drinkers time could be validated. my gloves, helmet, gas, making vote.\ There is one certainty - and a driver) could cover the In order to present an sure all my unsuspecting students may be relatively designated route in the least overview unique enough to befit passengel's are ready for a violent apathetic concerning the amount of time after stopping in so unique an event th.e start to gain a quick advantage. governmental process here. but the eleven appointed taver~s on observations of two participants, With the top down, our maroon when they do vote their loyalties the way and consume a beer a one the worthy driver of the third convertible shudders at the are clearly divided among a man. As a fitting finale two men place team and the other a cub Continued on Page 4 variety of contenders. olijiJJ'~)JtllJ#

CONG_ORDIENSIS, Wednesday, May 3, 1972 CONCORDIENSIS founded at Union College in 1877 \Money talks, nobody walks,\ -Denison Clothiers MIKE MESEROLE- editor-in-chief PETER BICKERMAN, DAVID ENGEL - ass~ciate editors JOE ACHENBAUM .... business manager Flag Heist Last week, a Liberation flag was stolen from the front of Davidson House, just a little over a day after it had been put up by the Black students who live in that area. GEORGE BAIN- managing editor MARK MINDEL- sports editor It is hard to .consider this a prank when one learns that library cards within the Davidson lounge were mutilated. Deeds of this nature do much to destroy many fine efforts to achieve a sense of togetherness involving everyone in this academic community. It is time we all realized that the banners are very important symbols to sotne of our Black students .and should be respected as indicative of their beliefs. Now is the time for all of us to practice what we claim we are - members of a fr~e academic community where each may speak out to support his own convictions. We .cannot allow the racism of petty individuals to undo the efforts of a great majority of our campus members. DAVE CONREY- photography editor MIKE HURLEY~ MARK SHULMAN- advertising TOM CONLEY - subscriptions STAFF: Tim Cain, John Quirk, Patty Sipe, Ken Gilpin, Jim Patrick Smith, R. Treat Rinear, Jr., Gil Church, John Calender, Pat Bunn, Luke Dillon, Bill Killen, Mark Campbell., M.ark Urman, Les Goldman, Ruth Morton, Frank DeLucia, Joel Roslyn, Bill Holleran, Tom Hudak, Steve Manus, Rick Judd, Paul Rieschick, The Eaty Gourmets, Joe Chapman, Sam Brody, Alison Sloat. Popularity Contest~ In the midst of the present campus electoral activity perhaps it is time to pause for a moment and consider how the existing voting procedure might be improved. The first suggestion that comes to mind involves the sudden emergence of better candidates, hut that may be an unrealistic hope. One thing that could be done, however, would be to change the date of the run-off elections to one. week after the first vote. Any system requiring two elections within 24 hours tends to confuse the voter; without an opportunity to amplify the contrasts of the . candidates, runoffs often are reduced to popularity contests. A one-week interval would hardly begin to correct the serious ills which beset student government, but at least more people would gam a clearer understanding concerning the consequences of their vote.. Once A Week John Arbuckle always used to say that ••you get what\ you pay for,\ which is terrific if. a, you get soll)ething, and b. you've got the money to pay for it. It is with a gushing sense of immodesty that we think Union College has been getting an entertaining and informative newspaper over the past four weeks. However, the money that guides this paper through the presses is rapidly evaporating, and it is with some (but not an awful lot of) regret that we announce, with this issue, that Concordiensis will appear on your local newsstand only once a week (at eight pages) for the remainder of the term. Letters Abortion Alternative Ed.ward J. Malloy Broadside ln the Friday, April 28th Concordiensis, titles were provided by Concwrdy for all statements of student political candidates. Not only· did these titles indicate a lack of intelligence and imagination in their composition, but the one that headed the sole female candidate's article was disgusting. It was a direct insult to that person, it made a mockery of a serious, political statement, and it was indicative of a rather sickening fact that there are still boys on this campus who can't overcome their fascination with mammary g.Jands and start viewing women as people. Yes, I want Concordy to be more than a bulletin' board, but I don't want it to he a means for some adolescent to voice his perverted idea~. Kate White '72 Black & White Up until 1969. then: were on!~ t\l.o blacks at~ery9ing 'Union College. The present senior class that entered in the fall of 1968. was a whitewash of st ud~nts. A furor arose among .tne campus communi!) and a great effort was made to recruit blacks for the school year beginning in Fall 1969. There were approximately eighty-five black applicants. excluding those applying for the AOC program. All in all. approximately thirty-four blacks enrolled. The number of applications· by blacks rose during 1970 to approximately one hundred. However. the yield dropped off (the number of acceptances who actually enroll) to a total of thirty-four. including both AOC and transfers ... 1971 brought a decrease in applications and still fewer (about twenty one) decided to enroll at \Union. The trend appear-.; to be continuing - acceptances and enrollment by blacks are decreasing. Why the decrease? With black identity becoming of key importance in~.our society today, the black college applicant is looking for an education !:lt a school which will respect and preserve his blackness; not try to assimilate him into a white middle- Seeing an ad for an abortion referral service in a recent issue of Concordiensis has prompted me to write this letter. I would like to point out to your readers that there is an alternative to abortion. . . class culture. What, if anything, has Union l feel \·ery strongly about this .for College to offer the black student? A black personal re.asons. I have two. beautiful house??? Sure. if the idea of living in the adop~ed. children whose. value IS beyond old Beta Frat House turns you on ... A descnptwn. And there IS no way I can blaek cultural center?? Sure. give them the adequately thank the young mothers who living room of old Beta, insist on one allowed them to be b?rn. . ·. thousand dollars for use of the whole In the capital district right now there are scores of approved adoptive parents waiting for infant children. And very few babies are being born and released for adoption. The fact is that every healthy baby born in this area - of any race or combination of races -- is assured of immediate placement in a loving permanent home. I ask only that anyone considering abortion also consider the alternative. It means several months of inconvenience. discomfort and pain for you. The joy will belong to people you will never know. But consider it. If y~u ~ould ltke to discuss thiS bottom floor and see what they can do alternative With a case worker. you may with it. .. (what does the black culture have c~II the. Schene~tady County Departme.nt to offer anyway'!}... Curriculum?? Oh, of Soci.al Serv.Ices. Schenectady Fa~IIy there must be at least four black related and Ch1ld Service, or any other adoptwn courses at Union, most of which are agenc\1. f J • taught by white professors and a few o Smcerely, which are being eliminated in next years Roger H. Hooverman curriculum anyway... Social fl:mctions?? Hey' Wasn't that Roberta Fla... (forget that, she cancelled) ... So what's left?? Oh yes, a dub, the Black Alliance, which can organize black functions on campus. How much money is it that the tax committee -----~-----------------~---------~oot~m~W~.t~~sa~eysho~fur Concordiensis is puhlishcd ~H·r~ Wc•dnc:sdn~ dur.in!! tht• Spring r~·rm . .''\t'cpt change.... but With an all-white during examinauon and ,acutiun p~riods. hy th~ studt•nt hod~ ot limon ( nllc•gc:. censervative Board of Trustees, and Editorial offices arc located ,,n the second lluot of the: (i,•nlng~ Blllldmg mer the primarily white administration? With a Rathskellar. Publication office: w,,rhl Puhlieatwns. 771 Stat~ S_tre~t. Schenectad~ · basically apathetic student population? N.Y .. 12307. Represented for national ad\ertising 11) :'oialional Educational With board scores being such important Advertising Sen ice. Inc. College Publishers· Represent:lti\t' .. J~O .Le:o.ingt~m A\e .. New York City. Second class postage paid at Schenectady~:\.': Suhsc~tptlnl~ n~te: credentials for admittance? With Union 20¢ per tssue. $8,00 per year; delivered anywhere in the tinned S!lltt•s. Suhscnptwn progtessive1y ·becoming geared to an orders. undeliverable copies. and change of add res~ noti~~s shmild he mmlcd 10 the academic elite? With whites refusing to newspaper at Union College. Schenectady. N.Y .. 1~30~. kler.h<ll~t'S: area code. 511!. ret. ognize the fact that they· are the Publisher: 346-2356. Editor-In-Chief: 346-9330. ~ews. cdtttlnal. and llusmc>• offices: 370-6155. 370-6t56. Letters to the Editor and. Blither should he typed. problem, that they created, that they double-spaced. written in English (or a reasonable fa~simile thcrcol). an? w the_ condone and that they maintain racism point. Unless signed. editorials represent the nptnwns ol the edllors ol and racist attitudes????? Concordiensis. Looking at .thes.e matters ·mo:re closely and deeply, it's a wonder. th~t the black students at Union have .rema;ned here, let alane encouraged any other blacks to a,ppl:Y- or enroll at Union!! Jill Manning Mary Ann>leiifi'gbam Virginia Lyle .·n Steve Cassella·· : ( . ;; i·,·~) Why Stucco?'·:··~' The last PIJiflg,t;aJ?h of last week's tenure article by George, Bain disturbed us somewhat. It stat.ed that the Humanities and Social Sciences buildings were to he re-finished in grey stucco. Our first impression, as we sat in a room in West College, was why doesn't the college use that money for some mote sensible constwction. For example, the funds could be used for re-d9ing West, . §Q it would look at least. half as nice as;. ,say, Fox. Then, we further thought, the. ful;lds could even be. u.se9' 1. :~Y the Arts Department for the renovation of the old Physics. Building, .or for our theater. Peter Bickerman's article reminded us of the poor condition of the gymnasium. Possibly au argument in favor of the stucco is that it will make the campus look more unified. However, .no one had that in mind when they built .. the~ Sci~n~e and Engineering burlding, Carnegie H~?.U, F,ox, or Davidson. · · Finally, with all these things on the table, we asked a reliable sout:ce if he knew anything' about the plan to stucco these buildings. According to him, one of the trustees donated a fabulous amount of money to the College, ear~arked only .for this purpose. Perhaps this announcement is .part of a trade-off -· the trustees. will give in to reconsider the tenure problem. if the rest of the campus community ~ill allow some ridiculous w;:~ste of money ·to come to pass. . In any case. we really do not think that we can force the monev into other, more useful channels, but we- do think that this reflects something about the Union I'rustees they are still . concerned on I~ v. ith the image of Union College, or. at least that is their foremost s.:oncern. This i~ high!~ unrealistic thinking '\'hen there arc 'n man\ real. internal prnhlem~)acing !he < <lllcgc Respectfully, . . Jeffrey P. Ginther, '74 Marc B. Perlrna·n, '75 Gerald F. Irwin, '75 Frank H. Krautter, '75 Peter H. Leitch, '75 Bruce Turecamd, '75 Philip Rising, '75 . Frank DeLucia, '75 Steven Buchsban, '75 Jim Heller, '75 · David Pangburn, '75 John Gondela, '75 David Stineback, . · Department of Englis~ ! • 1. ' .• Wet Paint Several persons have recently questioned me regarding. plans to. fai.nt (not stucco) the Humamtles and ~0c1al Science Buildings. Since some seem to be confused, I take this opportunity to lay out the facts. When the two buildings in ques.tion were on the drawing board in 1965, the intention was to construct them of a type of brick which, after proper weathering, would best hold a heavy paint. It was felt by many, including Tru,Mees who had donated major portions ·of the funds necessary to construct these building~ ~nd the Library, that all three should 'tj( a harmonious color and that those three should. in turn, be in harmony with North and South Colonades, since all constitute a reasonable likeness of the original Ramee plan for the central campus. The buildings were eventually constructed of just such a brick. By the time the current red brick had weathered propeHy, the question of an addition to the Library had ·been raised, and action on painting was put off so that the current Library addition, and satellite buildings, could all be painted with the same paint in order to insure uniform color and curing chanicteristics. Bids have now be~n opened on the Library addition. and the Trustees have reiterated their intention to harmonize the Library~satellite complex in accordance not only with the wishes of the major benefactor of that addition, but also in accordance with the original plans for the decor of these structures. R. Gordon Bi,.gham · Assistartt tC) the Presid~nt : . \' ..

j '\'· In Fitchburg \T .LOOney Funes-\ Continuedfrom Page 1 , A:m~Fican involvement in- Indo- Chin~. If a working .. man was goi~g to be won over to McGovern, he had to be appealed to on issues such as tax reforms and Nixon's failmes in general economic policy. The slogan read: uu you really want ' tax relief, VOTE MCGOVERN!\ or everl more simply: ulf you want loWer property taxes, you want George McGovern!\ The techniques worked, the votes were won. Of course, detailed brochures about the issues were distributed, but the basic thrust was 'Clear: avoid preaching ~ talk about the bread and butter issues. voters were based on ·the discontent over inflation, high taxes, and the genera:! feeling that government has become an impotent force to handle the situation. The System in Operation spent April 25th, Primary Day, in the polling place in Fitchburg's C precinct of W atd 3.' I had lists of the names of people who had indicated that they would vote for McGovern; my job was to check off the names as the voters came in. Every few hours, a worker from the downtown headquarters would arrive and pick up a copy All-American of the list; the people whose I spent seventY days in the City names were not checked were of Fitchburg. Fitchburg is ugly, then called and reminded to vote. very ugly. Fitchburg possesses The method worked. By late two outstanding characteristics: afternoon and evening, most of A beautiful cemetery on the the voters filing in cast ballots biggest hill in the center of town were the people on the list who and a river whic~ changes color had indicated, when canvassed, every day, depending on the type that they supported McGovern. The Muskie Collapse of · ·rra~er ·being produced at If you sit in a room with the Fitchburg Paper Mills. same people for ten hours, you The people in Fitchburg don't do get to know them. I sat next really like having a rni.tlti-color to a cop fot six hours as he river, but the people who run the observed the proceedings and mill say that they can't afford to saw to it that everything was pay their share to clean it up. orderly. We had a good talk After all, as the argument goes, about politics, baseball, sex, Fitchburg Paper is a sm~ll dope, and Howard Cosell. We operation; it wDuld have to go bought sodas for each other and out of business before it could decided that America was not a pay the bill for clean water. lost cause. Most of the people in Unfortunately, most people in the polling place were regular the grimy city seem to be organization people from the two unaware that Fitchburg Paper is major political parties. They were owned by Litton Industries, a very suspicious of my presence at conglomerate which probably first, but by mid-afternoon we could pay the bill for cleansing were all real pals. They even every river in Massachusetts. shared their dinner with me. One Fitchburg is. a typical New of the men at the polling place England factory town. Fitchburg showed pictures of his recent trip was probably an o1d town even to Spain and Morocco: \Those when- it was · founded. The Arabs are so filthy.\ An elderly factories were likely to have been woman worcking at the polls told old buildings when they were how ·her fri'ends had to_ moVe . first throw.n up, because a Bla~k family moved Fitchburg is an ethnic city. T.he into their building. They all lived town is a political canvasser's up to Look · magazine's nightmare because every name designation as AU-American. The seems unpronounceable:. highlight of t.he day was when the \Hello Mrs. Krzansonu former mayor of Fitchburg came How do you pronounce that'!\ in to vote. He proudly Aside from your standard announced that he was casting variety of ethnic grou:ps, his ballot for the only \honest\ Fitchburg has a bonus; the city is candidate, Geerge Wallace. But dominated by French Americans. the former mayor was an (Canucks, Mr. Muskie'?) As with exception, because of the skill of many ottier ·s~cond' and third organization, George McGovern generation American , garnered the largest share of populattons, the J:thnic Fitchburg'svotes. Fitchburgers are _ noL ;)ike ly The Boston Tea Party coddlers of the • unpatriotic '; Shortly after the polls closed, elements in our society. the Fitchburg McGovern A few years ago, Look Workers jumped into waiting cars ma&,az\ne named Fitchburg as an and sped down to Boston for a AII-Am.erican City (Look has massive victory celebration. We since gone out of business and zoomed through Leominster, lies in the great eternal twin city of Fitchburg. wastebasket}. But the Leominster is famous only as the Fitchburgers, All-Americans, are birth place of Johnny Appleseed. not without their share of (That's what the statue says.) On contemporary problems. towards Boston, we zipped along Aside from .:t~e pro,blems of the super highway ripping gopu~ion, th~, 7 ti~qhbpr~%S suffer through Thoreau's Concord trRlJI serious labqr dtf(i(fulties. At countryside and raced past tlie Fitchburg Generai. Electric Lexington and finally into pl~pt management · constantly Boston. We parked next to the threatens to move operations to Boston Playboy Club and ran Schenectady when the gripes of into the Statler Hilton, site of the labor become too intense. (Guess party.· what the management at The Hilton was beautiful; it Schenectady G.E. threatens.to do was loaded with McGovern ev~ry so 9ften?) '' · · workers students, labor- \Have a care where there is more sail than ballast.\ William Penn b:v J. B. BOARD The Pennsylvania and Massachusetts primaries have for all practical purposes put an end to the active presidential candidacy of Senator Edmund Muskie. Only a few short months ago it seemed as if it would have taken an act of God to deny him the nomination of his party. Teddy l(ennedy, who might have challenged him, continued to play the reluctant Dragon from Camelot; Hubert Humphrey, the inertial guidance system of democratic politics, had not yet managed to get his campaign off the ground; and few people with any political experience thought that ·George McGovern had the remotest chance of being nominated. From the very first primary, the seemingly inevitable M uskie cause has been receding steadily, to the point where the Senator must now content himself with the unlikely prospect of serving as a compromise candidate :at a deadlocked convention. 'One may wonder what happened to the campaign of this decent and honorable man. Even more important, what has the Muskie collapse revealed about the state of American politics i.n this year, 1972? The most superficial explanation for the Muskie failure is that his strategy was misconceived, that his campaign was based largely on his image as a trustworthy man who offered the best chance to unify the party and beat Richard Nixon. Muskie had emerged in 1968 as the most refreshing novelty in an otherwise tedious election and he had delivered one rather impressive television speech on Editor, Wicker and I spoke for a half-hour, carefully evaluating this year's world scene. When Frank Manckiewicz, McGovern Campaign Manager, arrived to inform the thousands packed into the Hilton's East Ballroom that George would be arriving soon the throng screamed with delight. Not bad for a .man, who after speaking at Union a few years ago, could attract only a handful of students to discuss things with him after his speech. Manckiewicz charged up the high crowd with news about the amazing dimensions of the Massachusetts' landslide and According to a Fitchbmg cop, organizers, and unemployed the city is begimi1ng. ,,t~;> ~ave veterans - carrying packs and serious. racial pi,o9Jems. sleeping bags. The scene was Although .the city· hi:is· ;a' small symbolic; people, black and Bl~ck population,. 1 am told that white, who had been left out by \militants\ a.'r~ ~tarting to create the Big Business-licking Nixon probl~fusi'.~t least, th~t's what the Administration, were .o~cupying ('jlP,~~~· My[riend, the cop, als.o the ov~rly plush - ndiculo~sly reported that the drug problem ts /. pretentious symbol of AJ_l1encan ~ffiri'i\g, it~ ugly head. \Why can•t • co.rporate ~ecadence. With the tfi~se kids just go out and down a dnnks flowmg freely, the sce~e sfi, ·pack like we used to do.\ became surreal. I found myself m That is Fitchburg's answer. It packed ~oorrt, shoulde.r to ·'McGovern ran well in shoulder wtth Tom Wtcker. Fitchburg because the campaign Wicker had a silly grin on ~is was 'aimed tp take advantage of ~ace; he was very happy. and satd the discontent that the people felt that McGovern reall~ dt? have a ov~lir·riib~~ atlundapce of their shot at the nommatwn. . A,s Illi9Bl~ti :1:!J~,i !i~~~~ to woo Associate Editor to Assoctate . the surprisingly strong showing in' the Pennsylvania Primary of the same day. When Big George arrived on the scene, the crowd exploded. For many at the celebration, it was the first victory party after years of working; in campaigns which never had a chance. After the eve of the 1970 elections. It may be a · commentary on Democratic politics that · such modest accomplishments as these could · establish him as the overwhelming favorite to capture the nomination in 1972. From the very beginnjng, his support was about 3000 miles wide and an inch deep. While widely acknowledged to be everybody's second choice, there were precious few, even among his closest adherents, who waxed enthusiastic about the candidate. The Muskie organization began by making a crucial decision to obtain the nomination by collecting the endorsements of established party leaders, to the almost total neglect of the grass roots. Such an inverted pyramid might have worked had this been 1968, but the times had changed and the Muskie organization seemed unaware ot it. Some say that Muskie is too unexciting a man to have built a grass roots organization even if he had made the attempt. But George McGovern, for example, is if anything, an even less exciting personality. The real difference, I think, is to be found in the simple fact that McGovern has been able to give the impression of standing for something; All too often, Muskie's attempt to capture the broad center ground of the party made it appear as if he stood for everything, which is to say, for nothing. In the use of this approach he was bound· to be mismatched with Humphrey, who is a man of almost infinite elasticity, and who has had considerably more practice at this particular exercise. The waning of the Muskie effort tells us something about the nature of our rather· exotic system of primaries, namely, that they do not necessarily produce McGovern made his way through the crowded ballroom, with Secret Servicemen cutting a path for him, the candidate spoke for several minutes. He thanked his volunteer workers, his staff, his family, and Kathleen Kennedy, who had worked for McGovern in the last week of the effort. McGovern invited Kathleen, Bobby's eldest daughter, to bring the rest of her family along for the rest of the campaign. Kathleen smiled and looked really good. (I am told that an obscure law passed. in the early sixties requires all Kennedys to look really good in public.) After McGovern finished his speech in which he had quoted from Yeats and Emerson, the crowd began breaking up. Many volunteers were flying out to Ohio on McGovern's chartered jet; others went to various smaller parties; and most simply went liome with big smiles. I had the best candidate to oppose Nixon. They are not really very satisfactory testing grounds for national elections. For the primaries tend to magnify local rather than national issues, and they tend to amplify the candidacy of non-centrist candidates able to attract intensely committed voters, especially in primaries with more than two or three candidates. While such intensity may lead to favorable primary results for a candidate, it often tends to alienate large numbers of voters in the general election. Given his kind of candidacy, Muskie would have been in an incomparably stronger position today if he had not entered a single primary. But perhaps the most disquieting lesson to be drawn from the Muskie failure is the extent of the disarray into which the Democratic party organization has fallen. Here it is, leaderless, out of power, unable to pay its phone bills, torn by factions, more internally affected by contemporary social turmoil than its Republican rival, and faced with a politically artful President. The result of the primaries to date is to set the stage for a replay of the 1968 convention. In the wake of the M uskie withdrawal, the movement has becorne one of polarization between the old politics and the new politics, between the increasingly conservatized remnants of the old New Deal coalition and a new Reform Coalition struggling to be born. In such a situation, the smart money would ha·ve to be on Humphrey, but then again, the smart money was on Muskie until recently. Professor Board is chairman of the political science department at Union. to meet several people for a ride back to Schenectady; we all got together and agreed to meet later at midnight for the trip. I bounced around the Hilton taking in the sights, sounds, and smells of victory. After running into a drunken Jack Nicholsen and Kathleen Kennedy, who just looked OK after the public eye was closed, I packed up my gear and took off With five other people for the Mass. Pike and home to Schenectady. The details about the trip back to Schenectady are many, but I won't burden the reader with them, just a few highlights: We rriet some nice Massachusetts' State Police, the fire in the Buick was put out with very little trouble, and the garage workers fixed the car· for a cut-rate because they said they were for McGovern. The flight back to Albany was comfortable. .,

CONCORDIENSIS, Wednesday, May 3, 1972 Continued from Page 1 starting line as the Chi P.si Lodge flog restrains it from lurching Fonvard prematurely. Adrenalin /low.s as the count comes tlow.n ... 3,2.1... The dust rises frotn hehind as - we careen towat:ds Union Ave. where one 'of our pit crew stands in the street waving us on, signaling that the light just changed and we have to go up Lenox Rd. to aveid red lights. We squeal around the corner and shoot off irtto the dark (remember the speed limits? ~ sure!). Cutting C(Hners over curbs, we quickly . accelerate to the alloted 45 mph limit (so what if Lenox is only 3()) :and head for Little Richards Tavern. The Great Race , Continued ~<O\>~ TOTAL.STATS ;~~«\> .. ,\\1'..:..; ::·-~~-~-<·~ lst Bacher, Bacher, Grey, 50 min. Clowe, Doyle, Tedisco; Time 45 6th Simpson, penneh~~- Faga, min. Lam~ert,. Ul~r~; S!mtP.. 1:::'. · 2nd Holder, Martini, Hesse, 7t~ Lega,_ Apkariah, 'Morris, Sciacca,. Fillmore; 47 min. . Goldberg, Denney; 53 min. 3rd Bonnie, Jenkins, Warner, ,~:th Christie, Wo.oqs, Manus Bottom, Bloom,· 48.5 min. M. •• H. d ' ' · ·rxer, u ek;. 54.5 min. 4th (tie) Murphy, Brickley, 9th Mantling, Taylor, Burrell, MacLeod, Hansen; 50 H{ncher, Kenyen, Nelsen; 55 min. min. I Oth Benfield, M c Man u.s, 4th Newto_n, Ing.ersoll, Murray, Feamen, Taylor; 57.5 Henderson, Ktrcher, Stnckland; min. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ *** . MVP-B(Jb Hesse *** Most Lunches by a single contestant, Mike Sciacca .. 8 .. Ent·itling him to a free. Chili lunch at Newest Lunch. Sitting at the starting line my mind passed beyond the fact that I was penniless and cigaretteless but still going North. True, some of the ex hila ration of the conte~t had affected me but this was not my primary concern ei.ther. Rather mine was a feeling of paranoia trying to recall all the useful criticisms of my first aFticle.. trying to set up an operationa.J form in my head for this article, and trying to decide · what to use and what to omit. However, when the flag went down, the tires squealed and the run was started. From here on you fcHget about tests, papers, and newspaper articles and are photo by Emo Marlin THE WINNERS: arrayed from port to starboard with Car Ill; Fl. Bacher, Jim Tedisco (with shades), T.J. Bacher (with beard). Kevin Clowe (u'ilh troph_1), Mike ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ALL-TOURNEY FIRST TEAM ALL-tOURNEY SECOND Frank Bacher Bob Hesse TEAM Sandy Taylor Tom Jenkins John Strickland Ken Grey Doy~e. and Ed Grey. only a mile away ... Terry McManus Mike Doyle T. J. Bacher (driver) P.F. Holder (driver) '-0'1\0'>~<.0'><Q';<Ql<.&::<Q>0\>~~~~<0>~<Q><Q'>~<Q>tq t otal'l:y engu I fed by the competition. I became the brow- mopping, bread-passing, puke- dodging manager of team n urn ber eight. The warm beer also took its toll on my fired up chl.Jggers. Every time they were told how fast they were in the respective inns their desire was intensified, they would not be denied victory. Even warm beer would not stand in their way. But anyone who has ever partake! in the pursuit of intoxication via beer knows that the combination of warm beer (especially Genesee) and cold draft is about as feasible a combination as bombing to attain peace or having intercourse for the sake of chastity. The two just don't mix and the natural. process is out the worst in everybody. Two rejection. As we again drove off quick draft stops cJt John's and toward Ballston Spa, the Shady Club 77, and all four were Rest gained a souvenir of the wea,ving their way across the ralleye which could be best street to the car holding their described as a memorial to Mike stomachs. Now, nobody knew Sciacca's menu of the previous exactly where Ken's Griil was in week. Ballston Spa brought up and Continued on Page 6 Meditate Like The Maharishi Out car hums across the Rexford Bridge and we slide into the parking- lot at Little Richard's and WE''re still got·ng about 15 mph as my team ,.leaps from the back seat and sprints for the door. Turning the car around, I notice the paper for the bartender's signatures on the floor. /jump from the car and as I raa inside, the ho rs are finishin[ up,: the bartender had had rour beers lined up un the har and a pen in his hand readr for his fohn Hancock. With an encouraging \You're the fastest here so far.\ (little did we know how marty more times we would hear that). we hustled hack intu the car. With a hasty glance hack towards the bridge, we hit the road again serenaded by several helches from the back seat. by BOB HAHN The early 60's were marked by a turn of the young to expansion of consciousness. Ten years later, · the scientific community has not only taken a serious interest, but has published some rat her substantial findings in this .field; articles appear in the Journal of the American Medical Association, American Journal of Physiology, Scientific American. Science Magazine. to name just a few. There has been a considerable amount of research conducted on amount of research conducted experience of meditators, has stimulated great interest in TM. Doctors Wallace and Benson, from Harvard Medical School, have reported t.tJ.e following: Decrease in metabolic activity indicates a degree of rest for the Nervous System. Decrease in metabolic rate: in deep sleep, 8% in 8 hours, in TM I 6-20% in 30 min. (American Journal of Physiology, Sept. 71) Decrease in Cardiac output indicates a degree of rest for the Nervous System: Cardiac output decreases 25% in TM (Science Magazine) March 70) We were going good, the pre- tourney plotting of the side streets was working well for the occurrence of red lights and stop signs was minimized. Rexford B'ridge coming up, HOLY CHRJS1, we're on two wheels on persons practicing {TM), a simple, effortless, technique which requires no concentration. TM is preparation for activity. One meditates 15-20 minutes in the morning and evening, sitting comfortably. No physical exercises or strange postures are involved. TM is for the active person, it is not something which contributes to the reclusive way of life, it involves no sort of renunciation, or change of diet. Furtherm.ore, TM has nothing to do with religion and requires no belief. A special lecture and slide presentation will be given Tuesday, May 9 at 8:30 p.m. in Old Chapel, by Joseph Clarke, East-Coast Coordinator for the Students International an Assistant Professor of Art; Gretche~. a graduate student in American Studies; Barbara, a Why are most of these people smiling? Decrease of Blood Lactate (a chemical cons~ituem found in blood in conjuction with anxiety neurosis) indicates a restfulness Meditation Society {SIMS). SIMS is an educational, non- profit organization, and as a movement has grown at a phenomenal rate in the last few years. In the last I Y2 years nearly I 0% of the students and almost 10% of the faculty at Union have started meditating. In the· Schenectady-Albany area, the number of meditators has grown from a handful to nearly 800. A few years ago there were less than 50 trained teachers of TM working full time. There are about 2500 teachers now in the US and there will be about 3000 by the end of this summer. Presently, there are 6 teachers at Union, all who have been trained personally by Maharishi Mahesh Yogi at an intensive 3 month teacher-training course; Peter is Psychology-Art major; Alan, an and decrease of tension: Blood English major; and Bob, a lactate decreases over JO% in TM philosophy major. Obviously, (Journal of the American TM is not restricted to certain Medical Association, Jan. 72) kinds of people. In the last few Decrease in tension, as years, the number of meditators measured by Galvanic skin in the US has doubled and there resistance: skin resistance are now more tha 1 IOO,OOO. increased as much at 800% in WIJY? TM which indicates profeund ... a truck coming the other way ... I close my eyes and am absorbed by the same feeling one gets when he swordfights Zorro or draws on Matt Dillon ... INSTANTANEOUS DEATH. Someh<>w we rnade it. Maybe the truck was a mirage. A quick turn into Little Richard's, a quick jolt from a large pothole and the boys were in a.nd out in no-time. These troopers are psyched! Back on 50, speeding off, I offer bread to my charges. The more I think about it the more this was a symbolic last supper for many stomach linings would be lost ,special student in Art; Brian, a that night and eating was an r:: 0 entity to be forgotten for days to a] come. Roc's tavern was routine; flash in and out, vaulting back into the car and foot to Jhe floor. But our real troublr was at the Shady Lane whetl! the boys couldn't find the door until they were 0 a: Ul ~ z -4 0 ~ >. =:l (./) 6-8 u 7. Lll ~ 0-12 ~ w (.') ...J HY~ ·osrs \' ' ~- I t--1 .... ~ I -· -·- ~ motioned around back hr a gleefully s-miling patron. Pretious seconds we~e lost and worst of all. it was lvarm Genesee, in .a bottle. This was onlv the third bar and a/read}' warm brew and partially digested dinner gushed onto the pavement from two of the four contestants. Now we knew why tfzose locals in there were smiling, those bast*ds. Definitely a tough start 14'ith eight more IY.ars to go. It took only two more stops before the remaining two christened the sidewalks. Artd the next one is ~ (J-16 t- -~. TJiAN ~ CEN~ -20 .._ 0 2 3 r....... DEEl SLEEJ -.... \\\ --.._r TAL M t>DITAT 'LON 4 HOURS 5 6 v-- ·- I- ·t- 7 Meditators claime' that TM relaxation. · ' ;. · provided a very profound This is only a small sampling relaxation, greater ability to of the scientific verification think more clearly and act more which now appears in a efficiently; many found that they multitude . of medical and were less tired in activity and had research journals. more enjoyment for what they The increase of stres-s in life were doing. Many persons find, has grown to fantastic that even within 'the first few proportions .. 'flie . whole qual#y days of meditation, the results of life is found ·uncomfortable are clearly experienced and u~satisfyin~ on most I~veJ~. profound relaxation, greater of soci.ety. Man's very nature' 1s enjoyment of activity, improved to grow, develop, and progress. clarity in thought, perception, We know that we enjoy greater and action. energy, intelligence, and The technique of TM comes happiness. Somehow, this from art ancient tradition in I'iatural tendency to grow and India,· and quite understandably develop has not been satisfied. people are skeptical about such What is needed is some way, things. The teaching, however, is some technique, by which we can a scientific one - it is set and continue to progress and yet systematic. This has two eliminate unwanted stress. TM advantages: I) the subject's provides f0r s•tch a possibility. skepticism does not .interfere with Joseph Clarke, Regional the nature of the results, and 2) Coordinator of the East-Coast TM can be objectively verified. It for SIMS will be giving this is for this reason that research on lecture and slide nresentation of TM has begun to grow so 1 the medical resear< h, entitled The quickly; results can be measured ' Physiology of Cot sciousness, on objectively, and as there are now Tuesday, May 9, &.t 8:30 in Old many meditators throughout 'the Chapel. There will be a pre- World,. there is a plentiful supply paratory lecture for an upcoming of subjects for investigation. The ' COUTS€>- in TM on May n at 8 scientific community has p.m. in Old Chapel. completed a considerable amount Arrangements for >tarting the of research at this time, and the course in TM will be made at results are. quite interesting. The that time. If!~f:lF~Jlre anyJ..ux:th!lt:r, .. ·; medical data, objectively questions please call Bob Hahn ~ verifying the subjerj :ve at 370-4302. r t 0 0 E l sl tl tl ir P' d: al B, T til B~ lt a!. sh th sc~ thl

s, .. 'Wednesday, May 3, 1972 5 A'rt~s Collection PrfcelessAfield; 1 Club·-·Doing Little Things Right phQto by Scott Gordon PRIDEFUL STRIDE: Bob Mitchell eases home· with final run against Siena. Mitch blasted a triple ofjthej'ence with the bases full, then scored on deep sacrifice fly. Gross(man), Sandy Power Sticks by Panthers; 14-3 by JOEL ROSLYN What happens when a talented lactn~~c team plays up tu their potential'! The answer wa~ in L'\ idence Satt~rday afternoon, as the (iarnt'l LaXmen s\.\amped tht Panther~ of Middlebury, 14- -~. f-\or those v.ho were sober enough to appreciate it. the Dutchmen put on a show. the likes of which has not been seen on Dale} Field in many a day. The game did not Htrn into a rout until the third quarter, when the Garnet outscqred . the~r opponents 6-0. The offensive star of the game had to be freshman Bobby Grossman, a product of Long Island lacrosse. Grossman showed' some fine moves behind the cage in his efforts to set up the Garnet offense. He pumped in three goals in the big third period, giving him five for the day. There must be some magic about that name \Gross\ - for Barry Gross also had a hot day. The lanky seniqr .~c~red .four times and assisted ori two others. Barry's t6tal for the yea'r is up to 16, aTref:1dy more than he scored all oflast year. Sandy-Gross-Grossman Mark Sanderson continued to show why he has starred for three years at U. Colt Sanqy scored twice and assisted on three other goals. The one two BREATHER: Taking time ot~t from their scoring duties are Dutchmen stickmen Paul Hauk, Dennis . Walker, and high scorers Barry Gross and Mark Sanderson. punch of wise, old Sanderson .ttnd young Grossman is shaping up to be a very formidable tandem. All three Middle lines were exceptionally sharp particulariy the second. Donnie Klein showed some poise and tickled the twine for his second goal of the campaign. Co-captain Stan White gave the Garnet, as be has done for the Whole year, a l<Jt of offensive and defensive strength up the center of the field. When a lacrosse game is won 14-3, much of the credit must go to the defense. B-More was sensational in the nets as he made 15 saves. The Garnet defensemen, Young, Reif, Peng and Drummondini, all did a fir,. job of harassing and checking ti .: Middlebury attackmen. A special compliment should be paid to the ·Garnet Middies for their fine SPORTS SCHEDULE, 1\1A Y 3RD ....... MAY lOTH defensive game. Middlebury's top scorer was well contained by the Dutchmen '\D\ the whole afternoon. Maybe too much praise i~ no good, but the Garnet desene it. Incidentally, Middlebury \\a~ _coming off of a 6-5 win over Dartmouth. If the God~ had willed it, the Garnet would have a much more impressive record than their present 2-3. After Wednesday's encounter with Trinity, the LaXmen's schedule really gets tough, as they take on Hobart, Cortland, Colgate and Syracuse. Joe \Willie\ is making no predictions, except that the Dutchmen will not be destroyed by any of these teams. I H 0 PE!! Thursday, May 4, at Clark Friday, May 5, at Pace Saturday, May 6; at Drew *l\1pnday. May 8, Utica Tuesday, May 9, at Hamilton TRACK: Saturday, May 6, SlENA Wed., May 10, at Roch, St. L. *tentative ', '' ., LACROSSE: TODAY, May 3, at Trinity Saturday, May 6, at Hobart Tuesday, May 9 1 CORTLANDT TENNIS: Thursday, May 4, SIENA Friday, May 5, ROCHESTER Wed., M.ay 10, R.P.I., home GOLF: TODAY, May 3, at SUNY A by BILL Ki.LLEN The difference bet\\tcn winning and losing in h;t,..:ball comes in doing tht: little th111gs right. And with a perfect 6-0 ~la:e going into the three week.-nd co-n tnt~. l'niun'' .: ,,.: tl; t;g baseball squad is doing a lot ..t those little things ngnt defensively. Case in point '.Va~ Monday's 10-1 rout of Siena where the defense did all those little things with ama7ing precision in holding Siena to its lone tally. ~TU FISHLER - For example: 2nd inning. Siena runner on s.:cond, I out. Long drive to deep right center. Gene Quirk off and running. hauls it down, whirls, throws. perfect strike to Westbrook who turns. t h rows. b u II e t t o Bernhardt's glove right on third base bag, runner trying to advance, out by an eyelash! Instead of man on third, two out. side is retired. And the first two men the next inning singled increasing the play's importance. Nets Split Doubleheader Or how about the fourth inning? One out, grounder to third, Bernhardt up, throws, low into the dirt, but hey, dug out by Ruschak, batter out! Next batter, line shot down third base line, looks like trouble. Bernhardt dives to right, knod,<s it down, saves extra bases! Instead of second and third one out, man on first, two out. Side now retired on force play. Such sparkling play ha:-. characterized Union\ succes~ tu date. Mitchell Blast However, the bats haven't been silent either. Four runs camt: across in the first inning against Siena on two run hits by Rick Arons and Skip Lega. Boh Mitchell unloaded a booming. bases-loaded triple to the fence in left during the four run 8th !() put the game way out of reach. With firepower like this. third base coach Dale Long may be getting a sore arm from waving an average of nine runners acros~ the plate per game. ·Monday's victory went to frosh Jon Gould who went all the way in his first varsity start. Gould was not overpowering a~ he struck out but 3 men and gave up 10 hits, but he did exhibit excellent control and was tough when he had to be. The complete game was the third straight for the Garnet p.itching staff. b~ PAUL RIESCHICK After starting the season otr with three straight losses. Union's tennis team now finds itself with a 3-4 record and a chance to climb to the .500 plateau with a victory against Siena on Thursday afternoon. Two closely fought contests were playe~.' over the weekend with the Ci trnet coming away with a sJ lit. On hrida) afternoon, OL r netters defeated Albany State. 5-4 but on Saturday the t.:.wis team saw its three game winn1.1g ~treak ended. losing by the same 5-4 -;core to . Hamilton. Stu Fishier sparked the team, taking all four points hy winning his single~ and double~ matches on hoth day~. He teamed with Marty Cukierman, our number one man, for straight set double~ victorie~. 6-4, 6-0 against Albany State and b-2. 6-1 against Hamilton. Cukierman has been looking better every time out after ~itting out last season with mononucleosis. Besides Fishier\ heroics. Jim Skiff -and f-reddy Kaplan won Friday\ singles matches. But the contest wasn't really decided until Skiff and Jack l.areusch combined for a straight set deci:;ion to giw lJ niun it~ fifth and winning point in the last match of the day. Saturday's lms was a tough one since the four p(lints we did win were all straight ~et victories. Along with Fishier, fre~hman Kevin Crawford won in both singles and doubles, teaming with Kaplan in the latter. Part of the tennis team's recent success can be attributed to Bud Ornstone. He has come by to assist Coach Walters in teaching our netters the finer points of championship tennis. Tuesday's rainout at Clark has heen rescheduled for Thursday v..hich will mark the first of three (('Jgh road games. The team t. tvels south Friday and Snturday for games against Pace ard Drew. The Utica game, onginally rescheduled for today, \\ilt be played next Monday, h Thursday's match against Siena is a pivotal one for the team so lets show our support by cheering them on against our arch rivals. POWER: Skip Lega who powered home three runs; Monday.

6 CONCORDIENSJS, ·wednesday, May 3, 1971 . Duffers Drop Four As Faga Campaigns byJIM SMITH The Union Golf team, lecl by captain Bob Qronauer, matclied strokes with Hobart and Middle bury yesterda)' ~.. The Dutchmen took the short· end of the stick in the three-way\ match, falling to Hobart ·by seven strokes, and to Middlebury by 16. Scott Palmer was low man for Union's linksrnen with a 79, good enough for a split decision. Scott's Middlebury opponent carded an excellent 73. Gronauer, who has been the Dutchmen's most consistent player, finished with a score of 80, even 40's on front and back. Grons has tallied 81 on both his previous outings, and has the lowest average on the team with an 80.7. But he has been low scorer only once. John Quirk con tri bu ted another 80, while Gary Friedman and Tony Faga added 83's to the Union cause. Tony was under a great deal of pressure at the time due to his campaign hopes. The double loss brought the go!fers' reco~d to 1-6 .. They gamecl the ftrst victory of the season last Friday against Pl~ttsburg. This time Gary Fne~man took top honors, cardmg a 76. The day was not a :total success however, .as the Garnet had to settle for a split. They lost to Siena by a score of 327to 307. Things should begin looking up for the Iinksmen, as the trend of their first four outings shows. Their average scores for these matches has steadily improved, dropping from 345 against Utica and Oswego, to 322 against Hobart and Middlebury. Coach ~canlon's \duffers\ will compete m the SUNY Championships today at Albany. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ The Great Race his drinkers.} John's wasn't bad, Club 77 a little worse, but Ken's Grill had a river of regurgitation in front so foul that it could .knock you into next week. But my men were stouthearted, Saratoga lay ahead ... Onward. Fiji's .Hopes Dim In A.L.· lnd 's Seek NL Showdown . by STICK MANUS ' .. - . · . ·.· :. The past week in softball brilliant on the mound, yielding SOFTBALL STAN\:I;jJNQS served to reinforce the positions one hit and retiring 19 men in •s of Tuesday, Ma,y 2nd. of the top teams. In the National succession. Against D U, the AMERICAN .. LEAG:lJE League, the Independents swept offense took over, scoring l9 D Phi 3~0 - 1.000 three games, knocking two teams runs. Larry Kenney, not the T 0 Chi J•O _ 1.000 from the ranks of the unbeaten Yankees' Lobo, had another fine Fiji · 2-:1 .667 and moved closer to a late seaso~ day, with 7 RBI'S. Kraft again :S~g Chi 2-1 .667 showdown with Psi u. The showed poise on the mound,. and ·P·fiiS,~g l-1 1!!:! .500 pitching of Tom Combs was backecl by .some fine fielding, DU I-2 2 .333 highlighted the 8-1 trouncing of particularly that of Rookie-of- Phi D I-4 3 .200 Chi Psi while defense was the the~Year candidate Olaf Nielsen Faculty 0~4 3% .000 focal point of the 8-2 win over D at third base. Chi, ·and the 5-4 squeaker over Theta Delt remained unbeaten tough KA. Psi U, the only other with a 7-6 victory over the unbeaten team in the NL, has faculty. At this. point in the been plagued by lack of action to season, though, it is difficult to date. evaluate this ballclub, due to the Elsewhere in the National relative ease of its schedule. League, Chi Psi claimed its first However, they will soon be tested win, 8-6, over Sigma Phi, but with hack•to;;back games against soon fell to AD Phi in extra Sig Chi and Fiji. ~nnings, 9-8. The only other game In action Tuesday, May 2nd, m the loop saw D Chi rebound Psi U got back imo action with a ~~om its first loss to trim Beta, 6- relatively easy victory over a surprisingly hapless Chi Psi . In the American League, o squad. The· 13-2 game was Phi continued to roll, while one highlighted by the hats of Sev of its chief competitors saw its Bonnie and Rick Judd, while playoff picture clouded. That Emo Martin played his steady unfortunate squad was Fiji, defensive game and Peter Kircher which was upended in a close 6-3 ·earned to mound win. · contest by Sigma Chi after two Across diamonds, T D Chi still impressive wins, including a 31-1 remained unbeaten at 3-0, but wrecking of the Phi Oelt crew. had their backs against the wall Despite this loss, Fiji is still in when a patchwork Phi Delt the playoff scene. They seem to squad, consisting of only seven have a fine offensive squad, players, scrapped their way from although their defense is suspect. a 8-1 deficit in the last inning to a With exlinksman Paul Kabb on situation with the tying ·runner the mound, they may be able to on second base, but the defense NATIONAL LEAGUE hi.d's Psi U DChi KA AD Phi Sig Phi Chi Psi Beta · 4-0 - 2-0 1 3-J. 1 ,, 2-l 1 Y2 1-2 2!1:! 1~2 2!1:! .,,. 1-5 4 0-3 3!1:! J. V. Lax In Upset by FRANK DeLUCIA 1.000 1.000 .750 .. 667 :.333 .333 .167 .ooo Delighting a highly partisan fraternity _gathering, the J.V. Lacrosse squad evened their season's mark at 2-2 Saturday, by upsetting Middlebury 5.4. Continqed from Page 4 Ballston, but we caught a glimpse of a glistening sidewalk and liquid trails across the street and knew we had to go no further. This stop was devastating; spitting the last gulp of beer into the street, all four added their blessings to the concrete, further marking the station for the remaining three cars. Helping the heavily belching drunks into the car, we took off again only to have one poor soul eliminate the wax job on the trunk and side fender with one of the more With a fifth floor audience peering down on the insanity in D'Andrea's, our team raced in to consume (?} their second to last rather large draft beer. As I was explaining to our elevated observers that the next people coming from the bar would polish the street with puke, they did. The two to ride in the car were bent over with hands on their knees for final purgation while the other two began mindlessly running in the general dil'ection of the Hub, vomiting without breaking stride. beat D Phi and throw the playoff stiffened to take an 8-6 win. situation into a three-way scramble. (Note: Due to Commissioner Lawrence's handling of the Player's Strike, All-Star Ballots w!ll not be distributed, by G!lette. Fans are urged to send their Au:star nominations to Concordiensis~) Russ 'Porno' Weiner led the agar~s~ive Garnet offense to a 1-0 advantage in the first period scoring U nion''s first ·goal and assisting on goal number four. Sandwiched between Weiner's stimulating performance were goals by Mike \Star\ Elmes, a hard bouncer in the- second period, Rich Hallahan, and Chris Nadherny, staking the Dutchmen to a 4-0 lead. gracefully executed pukes of the night: Ballston Spa was the spot where the race woul'd be won or lost. There were three bars, three beers a man within five minutes and the ever present Spa police, Joe Friday's finest. (It was out of this respect for the Spa's Tau Tau Macute that Jim Tedisco got out of his double parked car and checked the tires as a cover for D' Andreas was upon us as the sprinters readied their legs but the stomachs were beyond relief. The audience cheered but brains being alchohol-logged could not respond. Knowing the end of both the race and physical endurance was imminent a quick prayer was lifted to the wise-man of Rangun, the God of the wayward intoxicants, and the car and the sprinters staggered toward the finish. \ MCAT-DAT·GRE LSAT-ATGSB NAT'L. B.DS. * Prsparation tor tests required for admiSsion to graduate and profes- sional schools \ Six and twelve session courses * SmaU groups * Voluminous material for home study prepared by experts in each field * Lesson schedule can be tailored to _!Tleet individual needs. * Opportunity for review of past lessons via tape at'the center Summer Sessions Special Compact Courses Weekends- lntersessions STANLEY H. KAPLAN I EDUCATIONAL CENTERLTD. 1675 E.,t 16th Street B•ooklvn. N V y_ g ' {212) 236--5300 /:'-:' tr.f . {516)538-4555 ~ DAYS EVE NtNGS. WEEK ENOS SINCE 1938, The Hub was a circus of the drunk, the deathly ill, and the hysterical onlookers. Team captain, Ballentine Bob Hesse vaulted the bar, set up four, drank two, scrambled out the door and liquidated the streets. The sprinters came, drank, recorded their times, and left to join Hesse. The contest finished shortly after and we were a close second to the Doyle, Grey, Bacher, Clowe, Bacher, and manager T edisco contingent who turned in an incredible 45-flat time, averaging less than 35 seconds per bar. Any foreigner who still believes that the streets of America are paved with gold hasn't been to Saratoga recently and in retrospect, if you were there that night don't quit school yet There will be more meaningful times, more happiness, and yes another beer Bo!;tOn • Ph1la • Wash•ngton • Detra1t ~ Los Angelas. • M 1 ami The TutorincSchool wllh th~ Nationw1de Reputation ralleye after the year of recuperation is spent. .r~~~~~0>\'><. Peter Pause Restaurant D Phi, however, showed no signs of weakness this past week, routing both P4i Sigma Kappa and D U. In the first contest, Barry Kraft was nothing short of Second and third period scoring by Middlebury, caused by .gambling defense by the Garn~t, sliced the point s.pread to 4-3 mid-way through the third stanza.· ' l'·,. ·,.( Q . ·~ ~ If you think Kodak i~ rost pretty piCtUreS, yOU OUght tO na\irA/ your chest examined. \\fun 1 •h• I~ ro·. !, ..... !IJJI '\''1 .. ,, P••l•·nt,,l kdl•·r ldH 'I·H or. n••.• • ,. ,, •.• , 1 t• n. IH'I'lf' Btllrt ~ .111 nnporLmt prd.uro l·•c ,,,., ·•, t; 1 ., l1·th• •J,,.f,,trJ,1rC't :u1d c:Hch thr· ktiiPr int.Jm• Whr·n doctor ... .1r• ,,,.! ''•' •t• I lhf·<,r JlflfE•III'i;Jl killl'r\. H1£'v \'lrrmt t.Ju-..,h:,rpt·..;l • I• ,,., d' r , .. tt!n, .. lllf'\ ccm gd Ar1d thnfs Wll\ j!l·opl1· :ft f\rul,~ ·I • ,,,., ...,,, '\ tn\ hour ... crr·.JtJJn: nf'l,l,· and fn·lh·r 'r J\ fihtl•·•llllf•IJ•• n• \lr, ,~h th' t-r·\lil1'- 1 n dwlE· !'onH·rtu:nf•r· fnr r·ht· p:tf11·111 \('lll~<orn\ fOl tlu ho .... p1t.d .tll f'Yt·n morr thr•ful.t11ol f\r ttu· rmholn~r-.f .mrl.mo<..t imp(Jr t:mt. rc~ducPd r;Jdiaf.ion pxpn .... tm· Resr•arehin,u and r•rf•ating l\'tlf•r x-rAv films ii='l f.Wod fnr nur hu~in(\Sl'. which i~ why \W wront itJtn thPtn in thP fh·.st j.}.lacP But it dof>s our suci(•ty goorl. too which i~n't n had [(•Piing. AfiPr all, our hUF;in<·o.;~ df•Jlf•nrl~ un Ollr•Rnnt'lv so \VP cart> Wh;tt happf·n~ lo Jt · ~ More than a business. ~ ..... - ....... _ .... ···- \~-\\\'\''\'' .. ~, ...... _ __.,~·--' ·--- ... --~ ..........

. 7 \T , ·o· 1saac ·'Pens Tonite At Nott At The Bijou The Union CoHege Mountebanks will present The Last Sweet Days of Isaac, a rock musical by Gretchen Cryer and Nancy Ford, on May 3, 4, 5, and 6, at 8:00 p.nt. in the Union College No.tt Memorial Theater. Isaac is directed by Jay Kohn, with musical diFection by Don Mirate. Danny Dashman stars in the production . as Issac, and Cheryl Btown plays· both Ingrid and Alice. The ''Zeitgeist,\ or spirit of the times, is portrayed by Joan Levenson, Tom Parisi, Peter Leitch, and John Bridger. Hiya Kids, Hiya by MARK CAMPBELL Ecological backlash is the keynote of Frogs which leaped into Proctor's theater in downtown Schenectady over the weekend. However, it does not portray the subtle revolt of the environment which gradually chokes off human life, instead it portrays an all-out assault on the idyllic island of a rich, southern industrialist, Jason Crockett (Ray Milland). James Cotton wilt appear in Memorial Chapel this Friday, May 5, with tickets .now available in the Student Activities Office. They are $3 for Union students and their guests and $4 for others. ;(qtton is a master c;pj the blues harp and one of blues' Isaac in two parts, the first taking place in an elevator, and the second in a jail cell. According to Cheryl Brown, it not only has an excellent musical scare, but it is a well written drama that has certain themes and sym9ols carried throughout General admission to The Last Sweet Days of Isaac is $2.00. Studeilts with I.d.\s will be admitted free.. For information and reservations call 3 70-6153 between 1:00 and 5:00p.m. The title Frogs is misleading, for the vicious onslaught, although mastermined by the frogs, is carried out by all t-he oppressed ,creature~ of the swamps. The singling out of the frogs for top billing is not only confusing to the viewer, but it is also down-right counter- revolutionary. it is. a shame that much of the publicity for Frogs is of this same misleading nature. greats. « ,, -~ :.~~:~~ l!>-.cv··, ~ silver wings as an Air Force pilot or navigator. OTS is your chance to break away from the crowd andberecognized.Forall the facts, ~ail in the coupon. Or, call800.-631 .. 1972 toll free: ~ ......... . ~-~-<- ~WW' The guerrilla tactics of the frogs and their comrades are impeccable, and to be sure. their only motive is freed om from exploitation and extermination at the hands of us humans. How one could characterize their valiant struggle with the imperialistic phrase, \Today the pond, tomorrow the world!\ I just do not understand. Leapin' Lizards! In spite of any ideological biases one might have, one cannot help but admire the ingenuity of the revolutionary forces. One particularly cunning lizard manages to trap one of the enemy in a greenhouse, and asphyxiates him with poison gas. Although the daring lizard was not named in the credits, I suspect that we will be seeing more of him in futur.e revolutionary, environment&! epics. . This brings me to one of my few criticisms of the picture -· the lack of a strong leader for the revolutionary forces. Rumor has it that Ben the rat was prevented from being cast in a lead because of a threatened frog boycott. Lassie was also considered but she was felt to be simply too much of a lackey to be credible in the part. The absence of any frogs capable of handling the part is a sad commentary on the state of the acting profession. . On the human side the performances are all appropriately terrible. Karen Cr0ckett (Joan Van Ark) and Pickett Smith (Sam Elliot) are the frog-crossed 'lovers who escape the revolt by fleeing. Their sang-froid in the face of overwhelming numbers is inspirational. It is doubtful that Ray Milland will be nominated for Best Actor, but he is a shoo- in for best party-man. Even as his family is being decimated by the revolting reptiles and amphibians, he refuses to Gunga Ram the elephant buy, with Andy Devine and the mischievous Froggie. postpone his Fourth of July- birthday celebxation. l would strongly recommend that anyone interested in ecology, the revolutionary struggle, frogs, snakes, lizards and horrible movies go see Frogs. But, even if you do not see it remember, \Be kind to your web-footed friends, for the revolution is coming.\ . . SPECIAL DISCOUNT To Union Students GEORGE'S MUSIC STORE 509 State Street It's graduation day and there you stand ... diploma ih hand and future in doubt. You could go on to gr.aduate school. Or youcould look for a job in today's ever ... tighten~ ingjob market. Or, you could put your education to work immediately QY:flPplying for the Air Foree;s Officer Train-- ing Schqol program. Upon qualification, you'll find yourself begin~ ning 12 weeks of specialized study designed to prepare you for the challenge and responsibilities of an officer's commission. And, give you the chance to go on to flight school to earn those famous Remember, with an Air Force future, the sky's no limit. *In New Jersey call tl(Xl-962-2803. r~;:- FORCUEcru;.;;:;G SERVICE :;:;:;--~ 1 I . DIRECTORATE OF ADVERTISING ( RSAV) RANDOLPH AIR FORCE BASE I ·r-----~------~---, ,· · FERRO • WISDOM OF THE AGES ! WISDOM OF THE. AGES ! GETCHA SMARTS RIGH.T HERE ! I TEXAS 78148 1 Pleas~ send me more information on Air Force OTS. I I Name I Adoress I I DateofBirt Sex I I City Count)' . I Staie Zip I I Date of Graduation-- . __ S;hool I I I understand there is n<> obligutinn. I , Find yourself in the Air Force~ '----. -· -. -· ------- FOR A MERE 6 CANS OF SCHAEFER BEERE, GOOD SIR, ETERNAL KNOWLEDGE CAN BE THINE ... ' Ph ' • · ·. armacy : t f . One block from f FOUNTAIN SERVICE 8 . 11 G t f t rowne a e . FR 7-0510 575 Nott Street •. L----------------- ~~~~'imeJ:l3 Sc:lleefer Breweries, New York aAd Albany, N Y., Balf1more, Md., Lenig(> Valley, Pa. ~-----------------------------------------~--------~------~---------~---------------

! ' I I I ! I I I I • t 8 CONCORDIENSIS, Wednesday, May 3, 1972 The American war effort in' B'T['PUVD_ Vietnam has taken a new and L .l 1-:l.L.l.l more deadly turn; it has become _________ ....,_ .... _ a technological war. Through· The Schenectady P.Y.E. Club automated warfare, Americans will meet on Thursday night, are now able to continue the May 4th, at 7:30 p.m., in the killing of the people of Indo- P.Y.E. Office, located in the China with few Americans basement of Silliman Hall. All participating. members and interested persons Apathy towards this situation are urged to attend as projects· is an expression of support for for the remainder of the term will American policies. Demonstrate be discussed. your opposition Thursday, May * * * * 4th, National Moratm:iwn Day. On Saturday, May 6th, Comp. ·A rally will be held in protest of Ed. 44 students are going on a the air war in Vietnam and trip to New York museums and American corporative the~tres. Departure is at 8 a.m. particip.ation in the war. The from Memorial Chapel . and rally will be held at I 1:30 at return at II p.m. from Lincoln Library Plaza,. followed by a Center. The fare is set at .8 but march to City Hall and $1 will be returned if all seats are Schenectady recruiting centers. filled. Students interested in Prefessors Enteman and Snider, joining us, please · contact Mr. Father Murphy, and Mark Freund, Hum. Center, Ext. 6208. Coven will be speaking at the * * * * rally. A Die-In will be held at A six-week field project on the Library Plaza on Thursday from old Erie Canal in ~orne will be 10:15 to 10:30 a.m. to protest the open this summer to inhumane .bombings of the . undergr;=tduates from I) nion Vietnamese. College. * * * * · . . Six credit hours will be offered Th~ lottery fo~ housing will be 'for archeological and historical held m May Wlth dates to be field work done on t·he canal and announced .l~ter. Off-campus scheduled June 19-July 28. students desmng 1? return !? Spons0ring the project is the ca~pus should regast~r ~t the · College Center of the Finger Res1den<:e Program Office m Fox Lakes, a collegial consortium House m order to . enter the based in Corning. These offerings lottery or be considered . !or are Field Biology I, a preliminary placement on campus. Deadlme investigation, June 25-July 29, May 10. and Field Biology I I, an in-depth * * * * Need a Rider or Riders? Tune study, July 31-September 2. in WRUC's RIDE BOARD. Just Inquiries about applications, leave a note at 'RUC any time tuition, and , .housing for all before 5:00 Thursday and be courses should be addressed to d I I 30 the CCFL, Houghton House, listening at 7:30 an :· p.m., Corning, New Yorl<, 14830. when all ride announcements will 'be aired. \' * * * * * * * Mr. Edward Dolinsky, Psychology Prof. Clare Graves and Philosophy .Prof. Wiiiiam Enteman will be the two speakers in the final session of the discussion series \The Professor as a Scholar,\ on Thursday, May 4, at 7:30 p.m. in the Hale House Student Lounge. Refreshments will be served. Director of Health Care Research for Metropolitan Life Insurance Company will speak on Historical Perspective of HMO's in Hale House Student Lounge, on Thursday, May 4. at 3:00. * * * * FOR LIQUOR & WINE Try JAKE LIPSTEIN'S 464 State Street FR 4-1888 LUIGI'S RESTAURANT SPECIALIZING IN Italian • American Footl 11'25 JARRETT ST. Schenech1dy Dl 6-9744 Enioy Sizzling Ste<!lh ond Chops Visit Our Cocktail Bar Collegiate Research & Advisory Service 2 Sylvan St. Rutherford, N.J. 07070 (201) 933-6117 (3979) \A complete line of writing services S-Monday-Friday 10-2 F \.LJ~-Sir..KlNG-Mon.-Fri 9:30-4:30, Sat. 11 .. 4 t's Weekend) Squire Motel Rt. 20 & 146 from Thruway Ex. 25 close to Schenectady & Albany Restaurant, Lounge, Pool Adjoining family rooms TV- Phones (CARMAN) 3898 Carman Road, Sch'dy N.Y. 12303 Phone 110 - ............. \\ ........... - .... ,. \\' ... ~r\' ... --; ... ~-:-:-. , ... ;. :~_,; ':-:..:. ...... . - ..... ,~.)~/ ' ... ·· ·\' .. '\:. ...,, ~·'-') 'l':~J,:'~ j\ ., ·~, -· Anyone interested in planning the Biology Dept. picnic please meet in the Social Science Building lounge at 7:30 p.m. on Wednesday, May 3. Volunt~ers. ar~ now needed for Senator Ge0rge Mct:Jovern's ·Presidential campaign in the Schenectady area. Anyone interested in helping in any way :should call Neil Kane at 377·4734. Information on Study: Abroad Programs. (summer, s~rn~ter and year) and domestic ;'summer language programs at American * * * * ... * * * . Universitites · is available in Humanities 211. The Wild Times Begin . ,May 4·5·6 This we~kend, follow the lights in the sky, to the grand opening of the Varsity lnnr· · the Capital District's newest happening plaCE?~. ... ... *' * The \V.I.\ ... with a dance floor alive with a ra.itl'bQW of pulsating lights, hig, beautiful drinks and gobs of parking. The Varsity Inn where g·ood times are an everytime thing. Make it to the \V.I.\ At. 20 Route 155 (halfway between Rt. 5 and Rt. 20), Colonie ;'<t I • .. , . ~· . ~. r: . .. ~:

·suRPLUS I·SSUE ~~~~~~~ . . - ·Ray K.rise, J:r on Richard ·Nixon 'Robert Sharlet on the· Su-mm.it Phil Joh-nson on Loyalty Day Phil Galdston on the Spring of '70 Mike Meserole on Al Gyurko & Co. Don Morenstein on Don More!nstein founded at Union College in 1877 Y ol. J:Ol,. No. 45 · SCHENF;CTADY, NEW YORK! Wednesday, May 10, 1')72 ' • -- - ' ~ > ' ' • - • • -- •• 20.cents Provost Candidate Nixon Revives Protest Stresses Challenge by PETER DICKERMAN Without ·any substantial advance notice to students, candidates for the office of provost have begun to make campus appearances. Dr. William H. Macmillan, whose visit ·of 2~ days was the first by such a · candidate, spoke informally to an open meeting of students Monday night. photo by Jeif Weilburg Dr. Wm. Macmillan Dr. Macmillan, originally a professor of pharmacology, is 48 years old and Dean of The Graduate College at the University of Vermont. Questioned at the outset as to the reasons why he wanted the provost position, Dr. Macmillan told the audience that his job at Vermont has been basically . completed, and he desires a new \challenge.; Furthermore, he stated: \1 believe in what Union is trying to do.. in mixing its St\ldent body . evenly between sciences and liberal arts. When asked how much fJ:eedom of action the provost is likely to have un<ler the new system, Dr. Macmillan acknowledged that a precise answer would be difficult. He cottfinued, however, by asserting that starting next semester the provost wilL be .. the primary officer on the campus\ as the . president becomes concerned mainly with external affairs. After being \pressed on this point photo by Jeif Weilburg · of the provost's scope of action, Dr. Macmillan added that \I am Protest Leader Ann Me Namara on the horn to dissident not a good yes man,\ and that if Union students yesterdaY: . the job involved no real initiati·ve ~~~~8e:a<ii:e!!!a2e:8<::e!!!a8e~~!!a2e:8<:~~~@<!~~~~ and autonomy \I wouldn't come.\ . Discussing the present tenure situation here, Macmillan said that he is \'very l~ery about arbitrary figures\ for limitations orr faculty· temrre. Stating--that theoretically tenure should p.rotect academic freedom and . not job security, he mentione(,i the possibility of alternatives to the tenure system, perhaps in the form of extended contracts. Regarding qualifications for granting tenure, Macmillan told '1f his dislike of any \publish or perish\ standard, and added that teaching effectiveness has become an increasingly important factor in tenure consideration. He spoke of the need for student input, but interjected that because of their transitory role students should not have the responsibility of making final tenure decisions. More on Page l Senate OK' s Bills < - To· Lighten Loads In its meeting last Tuesday, the All College SeFlate passed a number of proposals which had previously been rejected by the Curricular Affairs Committee. The proposals were introduced by Student Body President Dave Robbins, considered by the CAC, a.nd brought up in the Senate last week. The proposals as passed by the ACS appear below with some of the major arguments presented m the meeting. A. A student will be able to decide, with the consent of his advisor, to take· fewer than three courses in a given term. Dean Lichterman pomted out that with proper permission. in unusual circumstances, I igh t loads are possible under the present system, and for this reason, a change in rules is unnecessary. However. the motion allows students to take underloads with the consent of their advisor only, instead of obtaining the consent of the Dean, which is now required. llVHBJllEW Faga, McCaOO JJi!nl,~ Pm Some felt that the motion allows the students who take advantage of it an unfair competitive advantage over students with three or more courses. Others felt that this argument is invalid because Union's function is to educate, not to foster competition. Some felt that an undesirable academic atmosphere would result because a student would have an easy way out of a difficult academic situation. Others objected on the grounds that it led to the following proposals, of which they disapproved. byTIM CAIN On Monday of this week, Tony Faga and Tim McCabe were the subjects of a Concordiensis interview. Faga, a Junior English major from Utica, was recently elected President of the student body. McCabe, a five- year engineering major, is also a junior and is the new Junior Representative to the Board of Trustees. The following is the result ofthat interview: Do you think your election will produce or accentuate a split between fraternities and independent students? Tony Faga: \I hope it won't. Since fraternities make up only about 25% of the student body, it seems that any independent- fraternity split would not benefit frats. I hope that fraternity people voted for me because they thought I would do the best job. I want to represent the whole student body.\ Tim McCabe: \It's an issue only if someone wants to make it an issue. A fraternity man wouldn't have a chance in hell of doing anything if we went strictly photo by Les Kernan Student Senate President Tohy Faga fraternity. The issue is only there is somebody wants to push. I don't think my fraternity background will hamper me, from my point of view. I'm going to think the way I think, and it's not going to be determined by where I live.\ Do you anticipate that your election will in some way increase interest in fratemUies? Faga: \I hope the fraternity image is improved. With this election, fraternities are sort of moving out of their shell and back into the forefront of campus leadership. I'm gla<f McCabe and I got elected because it shows that fraternities ate not only interested in beer parties and so on. McCabe: \It might in that incoming freshmen will see the role that frats are playing on campus. 1 don't think that it will havea drastic effect.\ Do you have any specific plans or proposals .for the future here at Union? Faga: \I'd like to see the inner campus closed off to cars. Parking shoUld be limited to the' lot behind Richmond, the area near the Science and Engineering Center,\ and the lots behind Fox and Davidson. \I think the chances are pretty good of imp.osing some limitations on parking. I also want to restore confidence in the Student Senate. I'm going to make myself easily available to every student on campus for questions or problems.\ Co!l~inued on Page 7 Supporters of the measure, in general, felt it would permit fn;edom of choice and eliminate some of the \patronizing attitudes\ in the present system. Most felt that it is desirable to allow a student to work at his own pace. The measure was passed 15-3. B. A student may drop a course (no permission required unless the change would leave him with less than three courses, in which case the permission of the advisor is necessary) at any time until the end of the sixth week. A \W\ will be recorded on the student's transcript. A student must notify the registrar. Many of the arguments in the discussion of this proposal were similar to those cited above. There was a lengthy debate about the notation to appear on the student's record. Many Continued on Page 7 by AL REISCH Union College responded to President Nixon's re-escalation of the war in Indochina with a spontaneous meeting held in Humanities 115 Monday night at 11:00. The meeting was open. with all points of view present being expressed. After an hour of discussion a consensus was reached about the action to be undertaken 011 Tuesday. It was decided that the action would he non-vi9lent and would be aimed at reaching members of the Schenectady community. It was decided that any action would be far more effective if the students acted as citizens first, and this is the course that was undertaken. A suggestion 'was made that the group rally at Library Plaza and then march to Veteran's Park for a silent vigil. During and after the vigil, letters would he distributed stating concern with the actions undertaken h:y the President and serious concern over the future course of events in Southeast Asia. The rally at Library Plaza was attended by about three hundred fifty students and faculty. Plans for the day were announced and the march to Veteran's Park began at 10:30. Marchers were met at the corner of Library Lane and Union Street by Captain Miller of the Schenectady police force who wished us a good morning and apologized for waking selected individuals up at eight in · the morning. We reached Veterans Park and assembled at the end facing lower State Street for the vigil, which lasted until 11:30. After the rally, which was attended by people from Union and area high schools along with some Schenectady residents, there was canvassing of the city of Schenectady with the aforementioned letter. There were die-ins throughout the city and in several public buildings. By four o'clock on Tuesday afternoon slightly more than 1,400 letters were turned in at the Student Activities Office. These letters have been presented by several students to the editor of the Schenectady Union Star, who will write an article on the entire matter; then they will be sent to the White House with money raised at the rally in Library Plaza and at the vigil in Veterans Park. A meeting was held Tuesday night to plan for long range activities. Few are certain of the outcome of this meeting, yet the consensus at this time is that the support for some type of action will continue and, possibly, spread to a wider number of students here at Union and in area high sch-ools. Organizers have requested that students watch for leaflets outlining future plans and attend any subsequent meetings which will be held.

, I ' ---- 2 CdNCORDlENSIS, Wednesday, May 10, 1972 CONCORDIENSIS founded at Union Collel!e in ,1877 MIKE MESEROLE ..... editor-in-chief PETER BlCKE.RMAN, DAVID ENGEL - ass<:>ciate editors JOE A CHENBA UM - business manager t;EORGE 8AIN- managing editor MARK MINDEL- sports editor DAVE CONREY - photography .editor MlKE HURLEY, MARK SHULMAN- advertising TOM CONLEY ..:_ subscriptions Rub-A dub-Dub Not much can be said after Nixon's address of Monday night. It is safe to say that the President has not ended the war; he has always lied to the American people; he has murdered thousands; he has forced America's poor to pay for criminal policies which can only help the super rich. Nixon says that the '\weapons of war., must be kept \out of the hands of the international outlaws of North Vietna1,11.\ It should be clear by now that what is really needed is to keep the weapons out of the hands of the real threats .to world peace - Nixon, Kissinger, Laird, and Abrams. We must now work to remove Nixon from office. We must demonstrate that the Nixon policies are unwanted. There is very little we can do to change the course of events while the Nixon administration rules~ but we can act in this year's campaign to replace a man of murder with a man of peace and justice. If we do not act - if we allow Nixon to be reelected, then we are condemning the entire planet to at least four more years of Nixonian disaster. It is not just a question of Vietnam; it is a matter of having a President who really is dedicated to peace and justice and not just concerned with saving his own ass in the name of honor. Concordiensis\ puhltshcd e1cn \\'ednesda~ during the Spnng I errn. except dlmng cxammauon and •acollon pertod,, O} the student hod} ol Unton C<Jllege. Edllorial otlicc> ate lllcated on the 'ccllnd floor of the Gcolog} Building ~ner the Rath>kdiJr. Puhlication office: World Pu~licatit>n,. 771 State Street. Schenectad~. N.Y.. 12307. Represented lor national ad\erttstng h~ ~atwnal Educattonal Advertising Sen tee. Inc. C ollegc J>uolt>her,· Representati•e • .160 Lexington A 1e. :lie\\ York Cit~ Second class postage paid at Schenectad}, N Y Suh,criptinn rat~: 20.: p~r tssue. $X.OO p~r ~ear: delt1ered iiii\V.here m the •United States. Suhscripl!on llrd~r~. und~ll\erahk copJes, and change t)l address rtollc~' ,bould he mailed to the ncv.~paper at Unton c,,llegc. Schenectad~. '< Y. 12.10X. Telephone;: area code 51!L Puhltsher: .146-2356. Editor-In-Chief: .146- 9330. 1\ie\\s, editorwl. and busmess offtces: 370-6155. .170-6156. Leuer' to the Edttor and Blither should be t~ped. double-,paced. \\ritten m English (or a n:asonal>le facsimile thereof). and to the point. Unless signed. editorials represent the opinions of the ~ditors of Concordiensis. Letters Mirror, Mirror The defeat of the Referendum Issue which was included on the Student Ballot forces a re-eva!luation of the character of the Union College student body. The trustees, on one of their rare visits to the campus, commented upon the · \lack of commitment\ among the students; .even Concordiensis,. probed the depths of student opinion and found the students to be \apathetic\. The assumption underlying both of these evaluations is that Union College students are {deep, deep, deep inside) people of unreproachable morals and that, even in thei.r silence, even amid their torpqr, they possess a profmmd moral vision. The defeat of the Referendum represents the students' effort to· realize their profounq moral vision; their attempt to shape an instittJ:tion according to their values. The Union College of the Future will stand alone, isolated' from an unseemly reality. Everyone will be a track star, running to their meaningless, insipid classes on Tartan surfaced sidewalks. People will be able to meet and mingle with their social equals in a new Student Union building. Its students will graduate, mate, and 0ut of the narrowness of their minds, out of their festering racism, they will build their own nutshell world. You, the students of Union College, have showri a distinct inability to reason and a bovine complacency amid a rotting institution. Your profound moral vision is a tunnel vision, and at the end of the tunnel is a mirror which reflects pleasing, perverse images of yourselves. Cranston Dize Group Benefits In response to the letter of May 3 concerning the racial situation at Union, I feel that the singling out of blacks for special priveleges is uncalled for. Why should the college offer black students a black house? Why should the tax committee allot money to the Black Alliance - the Black Alliance is formed to benefit a specific group of people, and if the benefits cannot be shared by everyone on campus, why should the college pay money to support it? The whole idea of a Black Alliance seems to be quite self-defeating - if blacks complain about racist attitudes by whites, the way to eradicate this feeling (if it exists) is through an understanding of each other; but an organization which perpetuates segregation, such as the Bla9k Alliance, is not promoting but indeed delaying the achievement of this understanding. The whole idea of a black identity at Union College seems to be an uneducational experience that benefits no one. Respectfully, Mark Wallace '75 Poor Taste someone is always reprehensible. M1: .. The cops com·ment on \militants\ arousing the small Black population smacks of the infamous \outside agitators\ line of honky horseshit, the one that explains the mess away so as to forestall settling with the rea] problems of the people. The people in power and the people at large in Fitchburg may or may not push such a line, but Mr. Ef!gel_ probably has no w~y of knowing. Are the people (a good number) who voted for a decent human being like George McGovern guilty by .their association with the racists he mentions? And who is to speculate as to what personality factors made up their minds for them? Maybe a longer talk with Tom Wicker would have taught Mr. Engel how either I) to be impartial or, if that is not his purpose, 2) to lend a more subtle and judiciou~> bent to his prose. Tht! fact that some statements may have been made half in Jest 1s not a valid e.11.cuse for them. , Sincerely, David Druschel '74 She.rman Thanks As I sit down to write this letter my emotions are a bit mixed .. The reli~f ~me feels at a time like this is most welcome; the hurt, of course, is not. Most of all this. letter is te thank those people · who supported me in the election. It is also meant to express the hope that we ·can begin to think of ourselves as students first, members of one community, with problems in common. Throughout the \campaigning\ many issues were d·iscussed. They ranged from a re-vamped fieJdhouse to the tenure limit. AU of these questions are important. But how many of us felt that the deep' and serious divisions on campus presented the most formidable ebstacle to a resolution of any of these questions? Tonight somehew, I don't feel like a loser. The \good lucks\ and warmth that many friends offered are the most gratifying results .any election could have provided. . -'\ I want to wish the new administration well for the future ·with the hope that we can begin to recognize out p0tenri'a'l ~as a community. Thank you all very much. Marty Sherman '74 Spiffy Keeno We are glad to see that Concordiensis has finally become a responsive newspaper. Your last article, entitled, \Gentlemen Blow Your Lunch,\ was really spiffy keeno, bringing back memories of monogrammed beer mugs and the days when people painted the Idol. We didn't mind Concordy's 'Wide World of Sports' extensive coverage of last week~s interfraternity softball games, including pitchers' E.R.A's. Nor did we mind reading about the guy who walked to Saratoga and stopped to lubricate his innards at every l>ar along the way. But how come we didn't get a four-page spread, complete with pictures, about the time we went to ~heck our mailboxes in the lobby of Fox., and stepped in a steaming heap of dog doody. Was . it because we didn't have a can of M&ximus Super in our hands, o'r was it because our fntternity folded? E~gerly, Sorne brothers of Phi Epsilon Pi I found David Engel's article on McGovern in Fitchburg to be for the most part interesting, done with an appropriate amount of enthusiam. It is flawed, however, by an ugly and unwarranted casting of aspersions. As one who has fairly recently been won over to the McGovern side, I have my doubts as to how well Edmund Muskie is equipped to operate from the White House. Still, I have no quarrel with M uskie's personal integrity, and it seems to me that Mr. Engel's reference to Canucks is an unfair insult to it. Spiro Agnew's racial faux-pas, obviously upon examination of circumstances more i·ndi.cative of dangerous attitudes, are quite possi~ly enough to characterize him as an asshole; yet, even in Agnew's case, we should only direct our attacks to the ways his attitudes manifest themselves in his role as a man of political muscle. To keep alive in any way something . that has acted to smear Engel's remark was in poor taste. And hell, hockey teams are named the Canucks. Bombshell Further on, Mr. Engel's cop friend, discussing kids, drugs and beer, cleariy shows himself to have his billy club up his ass, being unable to see the different psychologies of different times. Okay, but this serves to color the other subject of the paragraph, perhaps inaccurately. It strikes me as quite misleading to claim· that this person, as an extension of Fitchburg's power structure, has \Fitchburg's answer\ to anything, including its racial problems. In your continuing attempt to assert your masculinity by ridiculing the views of the women on campus, you have only succeeded in substantiating the criticism expressed by Kate White in her letter appearing in last week's Con.:ordiensis. Her letter was not uncalled for, and Its title was demeaning and poorly conceived. Despite your weekly vain-glory, there are a growing number of readers who are dissatisfie·d with your idea of entertainment, especially when it is at the expense of one campus group. Much of the humor in your newspaper seems to be the antithesis of that which appeals to intelligent, open-minded people. No wonder Skidmore calls Union the . school that's \close but gross.\ Gail Goodman '74

CONCORDIENSIS, Wednesday, May 10, 1972 Believe Id Or Not by RAY KRISE JR. BOSTON, MASS. (April 29) When i woke up this morning, I reali~ed that, one year ago, I had been awaking on a hard ground which was part .of the lot across from the Lincoln Memorial in D.C. It was the weekend of May Day, and I was with a group of people from Skidm,ore and Union who were back-packing it because, 1-2-3-4, we don't want your fucking war. That weekend was good, for it was a learni.ng experience, :but there was another May Day called again this year, so a.pparently the only ones who were doing any learning were the demonstrators. Once this is understood, it becomes simple to comprehend Nixon's see.mingly Quixotic moves in Narn. Pear Richard is a very frustrated man: it has taken him years to attain the office he now holds so sweetly, he has been humiliated by the press as a body, he values wealthy men as ego-projections of himself, he gives physical manifestations (ask Dr. Graves) of ego-constriction, and he isn't even especially taU or good-looking. As with all grey- flannel men, the ,only way he can flex his muscles is indirectly. The President ofthe United States 3 Two years ago, about, I walked onto the Union campus to find a group of people sitting on the ROTC building (the old one - I guess it's Beta's house now) porch, having liberated the building with the ultimate intent of ending Union's complicity with the nation's war machine. That was cool,. 'cause ROTC not only produced leaders who thought control of men was soniething to be learned from a text book, it also offered college credit for courses which were the academic equivalent of sand-box. The quasi-religious fervor of the day was exacerbated and doubled ·by the announcement that Tricky Dick (you loved him Unfortunately, when Nixon flexes his muscles, it's different from Jack LaLanne. For one thing, he kills people. Although news has been heavily blacked- Oilt concerning the recent escalation of the adventure, most sources seem to agree that Nixon reached his decision to resume the bombing on his own and very quickly, as a response to the people's offensive which was decimating the mercenary army of Thieu. None of his advisors was called in pursuant to the original decision. To charge that such an action is both puerile and a breach of public trust -:- for we are neither officially at war with the Vietnamese people, nor could any American citizens seriously be considered in danger which ,could only be averted by immediate action by the Executive- is correct. Summit Should Survive NIXON WAS THE ONE IN '08 ••• HE'LL BE A BIGG.ER ONE IN '72! as Lyndon Johnson) had \incursed\ Cambodia with US forces. This was, of course, being done to end \the war.\ The Commies weren't playing fair - they were hiding in Cambodia instead of slaying in Nam and getting pacified like conscientious gooks should. This cosmic blunder by the Prez precipitated the Great Student Strike, a gathering: of energy which went down the .tube for lack of a focal point. h is not really the purpose of this discussion to look very deeply into the student strike in specific, or student activism in general. Let me simply comment in passing that, if an activity has always ultimately proved fruitless in the past, giving it \one more try\ is not likely to bring forth any more fruit. Just about all the _major schools in the Boston- Cambridge area are either on strike, or are thinking about it, and I don't blame them 'cause Spring is just finally hitting the city. The point is, idealism ain't worth shit if it Is not compounded with true commitment. Marching and sloganeering is no real commitment; neither are position papers nor the objective -approach of the intellectual the answer to the over-throwing of a tyranny. When it comes to a cusp, it comes down to whether one, as an individual, is committed or not; one commits oneself with one's life. What I would prefer to talk about is the nature of America's adventure in Southeast Asia. I had a revelation a few weeks ago that, just as the Moon Pre, ram America's version of a spiritual experience - is the manifestation of this land's superego, so too is the US machismo in Viet Nam the manifestation of the nation's id. The New York Times is back to talking about destructive students as being \arrogant but the adjective applies to Nixon and' small men of his ilk so well that it is overlooked. There is nothing in this WQrld that Richard Nixon wants more than to be a two-term President. Tha~ is fact. The counter-fact of his cavalier escalation of \the war\ proves how deeply burns the bitterness and arrogan.ce of this constricted little man. If one is looking for a solution, it lies in commitment: either kill Nixon, or vote him out of office. The two actions, vis-a-vis the man's psychological ll'iakeup, are one and the same. by PHYLLIS R. EDELMAN With Pr~sident Nixon's announcement two night·· .-=tgo that all entrances to vrth Vietnamese ports will be mined to prevent delivery of supplies to North Vietnam, one question raised in some minds Is the affect this action will have on the Soviets, in light of the summit th~y are to hold with the United States at the end of this month in . Moscow. A second question raised is what affect does this presidential decision have on the war itself. Posing these queries to Professor Robert Sharlet, director of the Program in Comparative - Communist Studies, herewith is the gist of his answers. \The · presidential action will not result in cancellation of the summit. It will not be cancelled by us, and it is up'to the Soviets, as Nixon .indicated in his speech, to take the initiative if they plan to cancel. The Soviets have much more at stake than Vietnam. \'To begin with they're waiting for the West German legislature to ratify two important treaties to normalize relations between West Germany and the Soviet Uni(m. The Soviet Union needs these treaties as they don't want conflict and tension on two borders at once. They want to stabilize the Western European frontier to deal more effectively with the China fr.ontier where they have over on7 ~illion troops. \Another reason the Soviet Union will not cancel the summit concerns nuclear arms. Having Nixon go to Moscow lends ·prestige to the American side of the SALT talks currently taking place in Helsinki. \A third reason for the Soviets . to continue plans for the summit concern their domestic programs. They are allocating more resources to the consumer section ·of the economy, which in turn means more trade with the United States. We have the specialized technology which they can borrow or buy to increase production. There is also the possibility of setting up long term trade relationships invoiving export of our surplus grains. \The summit won't be quite as Loyalty Day In Hudson by PHIL JOHNSON Hudson. \'. Y. is located 30 miles s-outh of Albany on the east bank of the river for which it is named. Once a wide open port city with reportedly the gamiest whore houses in the region, it was raided by state police, bypassed by the New York Thruway, and generally been .left as one. of those places whose past was more full than its future will be. The first Saturday in May, Hudson celebrates ''Loyalty Day\ an annual event in the city, highlighted by an afternoon parade and an ocean of keg beer. \A lot of publicity - that's why there's so much excitement about this year's parade\ said a middle-aged patron of Joe's Bar and Grill as he bellied-up an hour before the start of the event. \Better have just one more quick one then get downtown to find a parking place. Going to be tough today. Everybody's psyched up and getting there early to find a spot near Main Street.\ The bartender, just back after a year in Vietnam, wasn't interested in the parade. He said he hadn't been there in years and didn't plan to make it this time. In the next five minutes, he almost changed his mind anything to get away from an irrepressible member of a notoriously pesky breed - a life insurance salesman who suddenly accosted him at the bar. \Only six cents a week ... We only collect twice a year... You remember Mrs. Wendell over in •. Claverak... Poor Woman ... Husband received $4,000 ... What happens if you lose an arm? ... $2,000... How I hate to have to pay off these things... Always sad ... \ The embattled bartender did break away long enough to pour a round and note that all the whore houses in Hudson were now gone with the exception of one. ••But she hasn't opened up for the-season yet!\ That remark was allowed to pass. The parade was scheduled to begin at 2 p.m. and a full hour before, representatives from the Army, Marines, Coast Guard, Sea Bees, Air Force, local fire departments, the Cub Scouts, 4- H Club and every Hudson civic and fraternal group were in place at the base of the Main Street. The parade took two hours. Four divisions of participants marched, rode or strolled the two mile route, pausing to salute a1 the reviewing stand that was set up directly under a large vertical neon sign for Hughes Dry Cleaning. The entire route was lined with spectators; several deep near the reviewing stand. The number of American Flags along the way reached well into four figures. And it was the only flag of political significance in evidence all day. Also along the route were what seemed like an inordinate number of fire stations, civic clubs and fraternal headquarters and there wasn't a dry mouth in any of them. Hands were for holding beer cups and no one was shirking his duty. Having shed the Cub Scouts, the 4-'H and the ever-present Drum and Bugle corps with their moppet baton twirlers, many of the marchers retracei!, the parade route back to the VFW on the Main Street with its. bounty · of grand as planned, but I do think it will go on. They may give Nixon very little news coverage, and may shorten the whole visit. Something symbolic of that kind will be done, as they tend to do such. \ln answer to the second question, I believe there will be no immediate effect on North Vietnamese operations in South Vietnam. I base this on a report in the New York Times a few weeks ago when the bombing started. The report claimed the bombing would not have any effect on the fighting for two months. The mining of the harbors will have no perceptible effect for two to four months. This action is taken to deter Soviet ships from bringing in heavy arms and fuel. The sea journey from Vladivostok and then the assembling ·and servicing of the armaments might take up to four months before they can be sent ou.t to the divisions. \Hue the traditional capital of all of Vietnam, is the objective of great symbolic and strategic importance to the North Vietnamese. The civilians of Hue, streaming south to DaNang are a good indicator that the communists will take it, stop there and consolidate, setting up a provisional revolutionary government. \The North Vietnamese have set up a provisional government in the provincial city of Quangtri. They would not do such unless they are fairly certain they are going to stay. If they could not maintain themselves they would lose prestige. \I don't think the North Vietnamese intend to go on to Saigon. They would over-extend themselves by doing that. Relying heavily on mechanized transports and heavy Soviet tanks which will need maintenance and resupply, they will not want to keep exposed to merciless bombing by the United States, should they try for Saigon. \Nixon's decision is saving Saigon only for the moment. brew inside. \I remember the Coast Guard. One of you guys almost stole my girl when I was overseas\ said a large jovial man pointing to a woman across the room. A block and tackle would be needed to steal that woman now as both she and her husband were apparent veterans of the dinner table in the years that had passed since the war. There was no question about which war we were talking. It had been nearly 30 years since most of the men in the VFW had donned a uniform and during the passage of time, waistlines had kept pace with advancing years. The young vets in attendence were the ones in uniform havingjust marched. Continued on Page 8

I , I I ' I .I I I I I r , I I I I i I I I CONCORDIENSIS, Wednesday, May 10, 1972 Spring, 1970 by PHIL GALDSTON and MARK COVEN For most Union students who were here, the Spring of I 970 is best remembered for a brief flurry of so-called \radical\ .incidents that centered around Been This Route Before Richard Nixon ~s announcement of a Cambodian invasion· to protect American lives (Sounds familiar, doesn't if?). Visions of mass sit-ins at the main gate of Genera!l Electric and at the intersection of State and Erie linger and dominate most memories of Union's Student Strike. The feeling that frustration was leading to concrete action and action would lead to some sort of significant change was rampant then, as it had been throughout the Moratorium · era. Perhaps the fact that Union's marches and sit- ins are the dents that are best remembered two years later tells us something about the minds of students here and across the country. For along with the short moments that brought the exhilirating feeli1~g of unity and power were the long hours,. days, and weeks of dedicated organizational activity designed to bring about some rneasuree of that significant change the marches and sit-ins were said to symbolize. by DON MORENSTEIN This past April 23rd, I found myself in New York City's Bryant Park; a participant in the \massive\ emergency' demon- stration protesti·ng the continuation and recent intensification of America's involvement in VietB.am. As I looked around at the raindrenched protestors, posters, and N.L.F. flags, I felt a strange sensation of not helonging. This sensation surprised me because A had taken part in dozens of previous peace demonstrations. I considered many things that might have caused it; my inability to despise Richard Nixon; my inability to wave a Viet Cong flag; and even my inability to refrain from laughing when I heard a 15-year-old girl authoritatively shout as John Lennon and Y oko Ono were being introduced, \Women don't cheer. He's a male chauvinist... He treats her like shit!\ None of these seemed quite right though. Reflecting deeper. I suddenly realized that this sensation stemmed from the fact that I did not know why the hell I was there. I had awakened that morning to the buzzing of my clock radio at the ungodly hour of 8:30. Evidently, having retllrned from the \Hub\ the night before \'Feeling no pain\ I had, (just before passing) missed the alarm. Probably because the hammering in my head, chicken feathers in my mouth, and hurricane in my stomach, made the thought of returning to blissful sleep impossible, I stumbled out of bed and into the bathroom. After utilizing the toliet for almost every bodily excretion . in the human repetoire, I entered the shower. There. under the cleansing influence of soap and water, I came to a profound realization. \Donny boy\ I said to myself. \You've been doing too much tanking, toking, and bloating lately. It's time you left Schenectady and did something useful. Hmmm ... How about the Peace demonstration? Yeah that's a good idea... I mean with the media always saying that the peace movement is dead because the kids on the campus are \into\ clean fun, studying, and worrying about their future because of the state of the economy ... it's about time someone showed it that it doesn't know everything. Right On!\ Still, obviously, under the spell of \Spa\ water I shaved. dressed, and ran down the block (Park Place) to \Rosy's\ house to see if he wanted to come with me. I found Rosy asleep so I kicked him once or twice to wake him. Sensing, from his emission of an enormous belch, that he had awakened I asked him if he wanted to go to the anti-war rally in New York. He grunted and yawned. I took this to mean that he felt protest rallies were a useless gesture at this stage, which in giving aid and comfort to the enemy, posed as a threat to Vietnamization. Shocked by his reply I asked him if he was serious. He grunted twice, scratched his belly, and rolled over on his side. l was relieved, for I took this to mean 'no, but he did think the recent North Vietnamese offensive was a cheap, inhumane, political maneuver designed to arouse anti- war sentiment in this country.' Still undaunted, I was about to invoke my powers of persuasion when he jumped out of bed and said: \Don can't you see I'm into clean fun, studying, and worrying about my future because of the state of the economy. Now leave me alone, I've got to catch up on my 1's.\ Realizing that Rosy wasn't going to come. I left. hopped in my Ford van, and began driving toward the city. The lingering effects of the \Spa\ water wore off rather quickly. In fact, by the time I crossed Rte. 5 I was beginning to seriously question why I was going to the demonstration. What force was driving me? Arriving at no suitable answer, I stopped, just before entering the Thruway, to pick up a hitchhiker bearing a sign \N.Y. C. Peace Rally\. I figured maybe he could tell me why I was going. His aone, gawkiness, and Adidas shoes gave him away as a high school student. Therefore, when he introduced himself to me, through a ·scraggly beard, as an idealistic youth I was hardly surprised. In hopes of gaining insight into my own reasoning I asked him why he was going to the peace rally. He told me that although he didn't really understand politics yet, weekly body counts and photos of fleeing refugees had convinced him the war was inhumane - an evil - and therefore something he had to protest against. I thought to myself, \\' eah I've been that route before, but it doesn't explain what I'm doing now.\\ We drove along in silence as far as the Mass Pike inter-change where I stopped for another hitchhiker bound for The Demonstration. Dressed in combat boots, faded jeans, and an army fatigue jacket covered with anti-war buttons, this second rider jumped into my van and introd1:1ced himself as a \movement person.\ He told me. how, as a student he had been '\clean for Gene\ in '68; led the occupation of a college administration building in the spring of '70; and joined 72Y2 peace organizations each bearing different initials. Hoping, as before, to gain an understanding of what was prompting my p.resent trip I asked him why he was going to the rally. He told me that he was convinced that the Vietnam War was a cancer upon the land; that it had destroyed the economy; impinged upon the poor and underprivileged: bred racism, and revealed the social and political inadequacies of ''the system\. It was therefore an evil whose existence he had to protest. I briefly reflected upon what he had said and concluded; \Yeah I've been that route before, but it doesn't explain what I'm doing now. At the New Baltimore service station I stopped for another hitcher. I knew at once that he was both different from my other passengers and headed foi' the rally by the football helmet on his head, the gas mask under his arm, and the Viet Cong flag with which he waved me down. He entered the van and proclaimed himself a disciple of Mao, Che, Lenin, Ho, and Marx (Karl). When, still looking for insight into myself, I asked him why he was going to the ratly he tlnleashed a diatribe of revolutionary rhetoric. In ~ssence, he said that he was going to New York to protest (and if possible promote the \People's Revolution\ by provoking a confrontation with the \pigs\) because the Vietnam War was a \Cold War Anachronism\ which had re\ealed that this nation was run by self-serving pluralistic corporate interests who shielded a fascistic, exploitative, and imperialist. c philosophy behind such myth . as \'the democratic process\ and the \two party system\. Although I respected him for his longwindedness, l concluded for a 3rd time; \Yeah . I've been that route before, but it doesn't explain what I'm doing now.\ At New Paltz a fourth hitchhiker entered my van. His sign, - New York or I'm Busted - coonskin hat, pink shades, bottle of wine, knee length beard, beads, bracelets, and stack of \Zap Comix\ had prompted me to stop. He flashed the peace sign, snorted some funny powder which had been wrapped in tin foil and introduced himself as a stoned-out, \revolution for the hell of it\ Woodstock Nation C9ntinoed on Page 8 The anatomy of the eleven day period that began the Student Strike at Union is confusing and complex. Looking back at those hectic days, the Strike resembles a fantasy piece with numerous bizarre characters. It started on Tuesday night, April 28, with a directionless Be-In organized by /'.I an (Brother Free- Will) Gyurko that quickly escalated into a pointed march to and rally at Hoadley House, then headquarters for ROTC. A rally the next morning, after a group Hall of Fame by MIKE MESEROLE Call it what you like; Spring Fever, Spring Cleaning, Spring Byington . - whatever, not long after the magical reappearance of daylight savings time each year, an uncontrollable urge to demonstrate about something descends tipon this campus. It has only been in the past four years, however, that this urge has been especially apparent here at Union. Taking a quick jaunt down memory lane, let's see what has happened. Three years ago, in the spring of 1969, Union was lounging around doing nothing when the first rumblings of anti-ROTC sentiment, led by English teacher Joyce Harvey, started to circulate a.round campus. Little came. of it, though, as '\Rotsie's Gotta Go\ rallies were consistantly outdrawn I 5-I by afternoon softball games. Apathy, however, was an empty word as hundreds turned out for the big midnight warehouse fire, below campus, across from the Big N Shopping center. Two years ago, U-Coll took its now famous Cambodian Holiday in the wake of President Nixon's incursion into enemy rice caches. It was a spring stab at the big time that saw students march on G.E .. tie up lunch hour traffic at State and Erie. and garner a much sought after sentence in Newsweek. The highlights that spring were numerous - among them; AI \Brother Free Will\ Gyurko's heralded presidential Be-In which proved, before Nixon said a word, that someone could actually draw people out of the Library for a midweek rally; and the sit-in at the General Electric gates which broke up only when a Wells Fargo armored truck tried to run everybody oVer with Friday's payroll. ' ...... - ••• ~. - \ .... lo - • Brother Free Will Last spring, Unio.n finally had its Administration Building taken over in a comedy of errors that saw Dennis Peskin and the White Funk Coalition try ·to he!p the Black Alliance achieve some needed demands, and then forgot about them in the face of· extended media microphones and Foiling television cameras. The highlight - who can forget - was the reading of the occupiers' 'list of demands', which was read, in Union's shining moment of student protest, by a Skidmore girl. All of which brings us to this spring and yesterday's upheaval in reaction ta the President's latest war strategy. The mood to demonstrate is still apparent, but the cast has changed. The troops are new, untegted and, alas, possessed of faces that have never gazed on the likes of Harvey, Gryurko or Peskin. The old guard, though, is still around. Mark Coven finally ma~e the Channel Ten Big News. of stude1;1ts had slept on Hoadley's steps, provided a foreshadowing of the roles many participants would play in the coming events. Dean Malloy and Student Body President Waiter Spencer tried to placate the angry stuclems i:nto moderate action. A flustered Dean James Palmer, speaking at President Martin's beh·est, uttered a remarkable serie.s of contradi.ctory statements that only served to annoy many of those present. A _disorganized group of frustrated students took the floor to vent their .anger at the College, and society in general, and to exhort the campus into action. And a motley collection of newsmen, drunks, security guards, teachers, maids, dogs, and students,. from the sympathetic to the hostile, lounged, slept, spat, shat, and applauded whHe the show went on. The same characters, at tirnel> cast in slightly different roles, appeared throughout 'each scene of the production. What followed April 28 is fairly well knoWn and too lengthy to describe here. Suffice it to say that Nixon's inflammatory speech Thursday night prompted his burning in effigy at the flagpole. This was followed by a marcn to the draft board and a sit-in at the Payne Gate. With classes cancelled Friday, a large rally of students gathered to hear an exhausted President Martin. His hands shaking, Dr. Martin urged the students to keep their protest on campus so as to avoid antagonizing the community. The students chose to ignore his request and left a worried group of administrators and faculty in Library Plaza as they began a permit-less malich· to G.eneral Electric. The long march and sit- in at the main gate of G.E. preceqed the occupation :Of the intersection at State Street and Erie Boulevard and a rally in· front of the draft board. Many .. speeches were made, a fair amount of money for letters ta Washington was raised, and the demonstration broke up. There were more rallies in the days ahead and the murders at Kent State set off increased actiVIty born of increased frustration. An academic plan to free students to work on the strike was hammered out. With all this behind us, the real work of the Strike was to begin. For some it did begin and for the authors the possibilities of the future eclipsed the first eleven days of the Strike. An economic boycott of major corporations, intensive canvassing for anti-war candidates, . and petitioning for the McGovern-Hatfield Amendment were initiated. A nationwide radio network linking campuses, a strike newspaper, and a liason committee with the high schools were set up. The United National Draft Opposition (UNDO), a movement to return all draft cards to the government, was founded at Union and spred across the country .. While all these activities were initially infused with enthusiasm, they briefly flourished and slowly withered. Amid charges that Strike Central was dominated by a clique, participation in anti-war activities declined in direct proportion to the proximity of thE' term's end. Whether this decline was due to frustration and a feeling of ·impotence or rather to a lack of commitment and dedication cannot be determined. However, two things seem cleat to us about Union: First, that the Union student often lacks the patience for a long term struggle. He seems to come out in the Spting and hibernate the rest of the Continued on Page 8 ... !9., Dt E11 Or Tb do an' Ur Rf deJ SiJ un do Un thf aw ex< W! 46' tea RF 10( bn 22( WI! Te: 51. Me pa< 1:5 J Di< pia hw intc for eac l poi cai Jac fini jun the Flc an< I we1 Pa1 po< hoi the 1 teal at Ro1 lo\\ clu1 bee tea1 yea. rerr goa F Ion rou Fre secc sav out ~ loo wa! maJ strE teal ROI dot the lea< the: and Th(

.. Wednesday, May lO, 1972 Bes-t Squ.ad In T~o D~cades Track Soars· Two Standards RPI Falls .after 20 yrs. by ALISON SLOA l' It's been a long time! Not since 1952 have the Union College Dutchmen defea,ted the R:f>I Engineers in track competition. On Sat-urday the hex was broken. Three schools were involved in a doubJecdua.! meet, RP:I. Siena, and Union, and it was scored Union-RPI, Union-Siena, and RPI·Siena. The Garnet thinclads defeated RPI 81-68 and downed Si.ena I I 8-26 to rem a in undefeated. The Ui1iort-RPI battle was close down to the wire,. with the Union victory not clinched until the last two events, the high jump and the triple jump. Boosting the excitement · wa.s frosh Pete Walrath's record breaking leap of 46'3\ in the final event. After the Dutchman 440 relay team sped to a quick victory; RPI bounced back to sweep the lOO yd. dash and the mile. Tri-captain Rich J aszczak brought home two firsts in the 220 and 440 yd. dashes with winning times of 22.5 and. 50.0. Teammate David White ran a 51.3 440 to grab third place. -Another · tri-captain, Tim McCabe, broke loose from the pack -to win the 880 yd. run in 1:57.7. Jim Johnson, Mike Rich and Dick Kern each took second place in the three mile, high hurdles and the 44<l yd. intermediate hurdles respectively for Union's only showings in each event. Union picked up 41 team points .in the field events. T ri- captain Mike Rich and Stan Jackso!l soared 6'2 and 6'0 to finish one and two in the high jump. The story was the same in the pole vault. David Ricks and Floater Clayton grabbed first and second, each clearing 13. First place in the long jump went to RPI but after Brad Patterson and Pete Walrath pocketed second and third place honors, they came back to aid in the Garnet sweep of the triple Netters Eye .500 Season The hapless Garnet tennis team went down to art 8-1 defeat at the hands of a powerful Roc~ester squad Saturday, lowering their record to 3-5. The club, which was expected to become the first Union tennis team to break .500 in a dozen years; must now . win both its remaining matches to reach that goal. Freddie Kaplan was Union's lone winner in the Rochester rout. After losing the first set 6-1, Freddie stormed back to take the second and third sets, 6-3, 6-3, saving Union from being shut out. Marty Cukierrn.an; who is looking better each time he plays, was no match for Rochester's top man. Marty went down in straight sets, 6-3, 6-0. He also teamed with Stu Fishier to give Rochester their toughest battle irt doubles play. Stu and Marty won the first set easily, 6-2, and were leading in the second by 5-3, but they were unable to sew it up, and ended up yielding the set 8-6. They then lost the third set 6-4. Clean Slate 1st Since •52 by MARK MINDEL The Dutchmen Track squad. fresh from their victory O\ er RPl, accomplished their se-:ond goal of the season they finished unbeaten in their dual meets. The Garnet thinclads ran up 95 points to easily outdistan,e homestanding Rochester's ~ 1 points and also-ran St Lawrence's 27. The track. record now staads at a perfect 7-0. Thu~ both goals were attained b} matching the 1952 team's perfect standards. The team was \rich'' in the · . photo by Stott Gordon sprints - Rich Jaszczak won the TRACK RICHES: Mike Rich, middle,· and Tracey Rich, 220, (22.7) and 440 (50. 7) along r;ght, led the Dutchmen sprinters andfieldmen. Mike scored with anchoring the winning mile and quarter-mile relays ( 3:29- infour eve~ts against the latest Garnet track victim. and 44.2): Tracey Rich led off the jump. Needless to say, Walrath's between Union and Siena. With 440 relay winner; and Mike Rich 46'3\ jump won while Patterson a final score 118-26 this meet finished third in the hurdles, leaped 45'11\ and John De might not have been as exciting besides winning the high jump Stefano jumped 43'2\ to close out but no less gratifying. and placing second in both the the event. In this ,contest the Dutchmen discus and javelin. In the weights, Bill Mowrey swept the 100, 440, mile, high Sprint Surprise took a first and a second in the hurdles, pole vault, high jump, The big surprise in the sprints, shot put and the discus with long jump, and triple jump. however, was frosh Chris respective distances of 49'1 1 W' Jerry Cuffy, Tracy Rich, and Doulides; from Mohonasen High and 132'5''. Frosh AI Gilewicz Jeff Hirst combined for nine School in Schenectady County's put the shot 43'1!/z\ to take third team points in the 100 yd. dash. suburb of Rotterdam. Doulides place in the event. 174'8\ was Jaszczak's 50.0 was good to take took the 100 in 10.2, the fastest Buzz Backstrom's toss in the first in the 440 against Siena recorded time this year for a javelin, bringing a second place while David White and Steve Garnet sprint man, and finished to the Garnet total. Wood ran 51.3 and 52.8 for third in the 220 in 23.4, as well as Burn, Rick, Burn second and third. Jaszczak's 22.5 running third l~g in the 440 relay. The mile relay proved to be in the 220 was also a first place Tim McCabe proved that his especially exciting f<1r two time for Union. win in the election race was no reasons. First, Union needed a Tim McCabe grabbed first fluke by grabbing the 880 in a win here to be safely within place from Siena in the 880 yd. 'slow' I :59. I, and turning 1n a distance of an overall victory, run and Mark McKinley brought brisk leg in the victorious mile and second, in the final leg of the in a third place honor. relay. race, RPI's anchor ·man passed Dave Rice, Rick Maisano, and Once again the fieldmen carne the Gamet's own .. Chunky\ Rich Greg Hamlin crossed the finish through .. Bill Mowery won both Jaszczak on the first turn only to line ], 2, 3 against Siena in the the shot and the disk; Dave be smoked in the end finishing 15 mile. Rice's winning time was Ricks floated to 13' and a win in yards behind Jaszczak. The four 4:34.3. the pole vault, although his relay men, David White; Steve Kenyan \Keeno\ partner had floated elsewhere. In Wood, 1'im McCabe, and Siena's .. Joe\ Rukanshagiza of the high jump, the Garnet Jaszczak. aU contributed to a Kenya ran an impressive 14:47.4 grabbed the first four places 3:23.2 finish, their best this year. in the three mile run. Garnet behind tri-captain Rich's winning Since the meet was run as a distanc<; man, stamus Johnson leap. The supporting cast was double-dual, times were also and Jim Smith, garnered the Stan Jackson, John DeStefano, recorded and a · score tallied second and third place honors. and Mmm. Wilber. · Continued on Page 6 Pace Ireaks String At Six, Drew Feels Revenge, 14-3 by BILL KILLEN walking four men and a dropped After having their perfect record stopped at six games with a heartbreaking 10-9 loss to Pace, Union's basketball team hopefully began another long skein with a 14-3 pasting of hapless Drew in last weekend's two game southern road trip. Tuesday's attempt to stretch the win streak at Hamilton's ~:xpense was rained out so the Garnet tried for the third time to battle at. Clark today. Steve Stockman Was scheduled to take the mound. Parent's Weekend finds two exciting home games on the bill, Hobart on Friday and Kings Point on Saturday. Fenway In N.Y.C.? Last Friday's loss was dealt to the Dutchmen on a lone tally in the bottom of the ninth coming on a single, a misplayed pickoff between reliever and loser Bob Mitchell, and another fatal single. It o:vershadow~d an awesome hitting display featuring three home runs as the Garnet battled back to tie the score in the top of the , ninth on pinch hitter Greg Breedlove's 3 run pop fly by shortstop Ron Westbrook. Jon Gould came on through the 4th, and Mitchell finished the contest. Saturday's game against lowly Drew, winner of only one previous outing, was a field day for Union bats. Mitchell and ,, West brook each had two run .;:! ,)ubles in helping frosh Joe ! rschel to his fifth win without a Bobby Bernhardt belt;. i two home runs over the weekend clout over the fence. The blast came on a two out, 0-2 pitch to the big catcher. Bob Betnhardt also crashed two over the wall sending home five runs. Steve Stockman starred the game but went only 2 3 of an inning, victimized by wildness in lSS. r'•ayer -\•·on~_ \l.tchell '.(ctrk Be• nhardt l.au' er \\ e•' hrook \'.\J .iel Andrews R u,chak Others Totals Pitcher \.lnchell ~!llck man t: rschel Ciould STATISTICS ab r h 33 10 15 36 H 13 34 14 12 38 II 13 21 22 33 16 12 20 25 rbi 10 13 6 12 6 5 6 0 2 0 8 pet .454 .361 .353 .342 .333 .272 .210 .18B .167 .150 .320 290 7S 89 68 .307 IP W • L ERA 20 I - I IJS 9 0 - 0 1.00 2X 5 - 0 3.90 16 I - 0 4.60 5 For' Allie-s un.' Allie Is Rain byJOEL ROSLYN It rained and poured Tuesday afternoon, and most people stayed inc;loors. Unfortunately for the Union LaXmen, the Cortland team did not. Cortland came into the contest ranked fifth in the country, and those stout-hearted souls who braved the rain now know why. The final score was 11-6 in favor of Cortland , but they could have named their score and the Dutchmen would not have h11d anything to say about it. The field wa~ a quagmire and this certainly helped the underdog Dutchmen. !Cortland did not even warm up prior to the game, and it showed. 1 t toek them almost 4 minutes to put a tally on the scoreboard. Union had several good sconng qpportunities early in the game, ou' failed to capitali1e. On a fine pa-., from Dennis Waler. fn.:,hman Dennis DeMuth scored his first U. Coil. goal, and the scorL was knotted -- brief1y. This was tt for the Union offense, until with the game seemingly out of reach, Stan White fed Barry Gross -- score at halftime, 8-2. \More'\ In Goal The .Cortland team showed some fint: lacrosse skills. Their goalie was outstanding and really put the lid on the Garnet shooters. Tl'e final tally was ll-6, but this is .10 indication of the relative strengths of the two teams. Cortland played much of the second halt with their second string goalie and fourth, fifth and sixth Mid-field lines. Barry Gross, after having been shut out against Hobart, came back to score three goals against the stickmen of Cortland . Stan White had a goal and an assist and was brilliant the whole afternoon. Stan never stopped hustling and hitting, despite the score. B-More was not as sharp as he has been, but he did hold Cortland to only three second- half goah.. Mike Peng continues to play excellent defense and even flashed some fancy moves yesterday. Split on Road The LaXmen's record now stands at 3-5. Last Wednesday they easily defeated the Bantams of Trinity, 12-4. Bobby Grossman had three goals, and Mark Sanderson added a few more points to his team leading total. Saturday the Garnet journeyed up north to play Hobart. Hobart, current!)· ranked tenth in the;, nation, kept their championship hopes alive by \nipping\ the Dutchmen, 18- 6. The Garnet actually led 3-2 at the end of the first quarter. Like yesterday's game, the first quarter of the Hobart tilt was played in the rain, Maybe they should play ail their games in the Varsity Sports Schedule May 10-May 17 Baseball: ~ TODAY, May 10- at Clark ~ *Friday, May 12 - Hobart, (3 ~ p.m.) *Parents' Weekend ~ *Saturday, May 13 - Kingst Pt. (2:30p.m.) ~ Lacrosse: ~ *Fri., May 12 - Colgate (3 ~ p.m.)&JV ~ Track: ~ Sat., May 13 - NYS Meet at Rochester t Tennis: : 10 TODAY, May 10 - · RPI ~ tSat., May I-3 - at Harpur = . ~ ('' Golf: *Fri., Mav 12 -:- Syracuse~

I I ! i : 'I .. I I l i . ,, I I 6 CONCORDIENS!S, Wednesday, May 10, 1972. Frats vs. Indy's For School Crown by STICK MANUS The past week in softball was \irtually \\>iped out as only two game~ were ahle to avoid the rains which cmercd the campu~. The~c cuntinu~d pustpon~menb will indefinately dela; the playoffs. until the contending teams can complete their :-.chedulc~. A~ of thi~ poi'llt, the playoff f:l\orites are P~i l. and the I nd's in the National League, v.ith D Phi leading the American teague, Thi~ year it is hopeful that the final playoff v.ill he a tv. o out of thn:e game >erie>. No Fault, hidy's! In the Independent League, there are a number of teams competing f(lr final playoff ~pols. The lack of coverage of the Independents in Concordiensis, is no.t a matter of oversight or discrimination by this reporter, who is himself an independent. Rather, it is a reflection of the Unbeaten ... Continued from Page 5 The triple-:iumpers . took I ~3-4 behind a 45'6\ leap by Pete Walrath, while the long jumpers took 2-3-4-5. First year Coach Ken Michelsen has to he pleased with his unit. In a pre-season exclusive interview he projected an unbeaten season for the Garnet hut wished it be kept out of the papers. Back in '52, the last time the Garnet heat RPI, was also the last undefeated squad. Thus our first year mentor has hurdkd two longstanding ( 20 year) o bstac!c~. I guess you made it. Coach! oA - difficulties involved in covering this larger <tnd less organi.zed league, and is no reflection on the ability of the par.ticipants. Thi~ season we11ther permitting, the champion of the Independent League, will meet the Fraten'lity v.inner in a duel for the ~upremacy ot the school. In the game-. that were pla)ed, pre\ i<HJs!y-unheater1 Theta Delt \\a~ upended by SignamChi, 8-7. 'l railing X-0 late in the game, T D Chi rallied for 7 runs hut I'. as t urncd hack hy firte defensive \\ork hy Sig Chi, which kept its pla~off hopes alive. Delta Phi almost rekindled the ral·e in the American League barely escaping with a 4-2 \lin o\er the faculty. Barry Kraft's efforts on the hill were matched by the faculty's mystery hurler from VITA. However, D Phi's hats rallied for two big runs in the sixth inning to clinch the wi'il. This sets up a big game on Thursday, if the weather clears, with D Phi facing once-beaten Fiji. AMERICAN LEA CUE D Phi 4-0 1.000 Sig Chi 3-1 . 750 Theta Delt 3-1 . 750 Fiji 2-1 .667 112 Phi Sig 1-1 . 500 2 [) u . 1-2 .333 212 Phi Dclt 1-4 . 200 3 !t2 Faculty 0-5 .000 4Y 2 NATIONAL LEACU E Ind\ Psi lJ D Chi KA A D Phi Beta Sig Phi Chi Psi 4\0 1.000 - 2-(.J I. 000 I 4-1 .xoo Y2 2-1 .667 1!12 l-3 .250 3 1-J .250 3 1-3 .250' 3 1-5 . 167 4 . ATTENTION ·~ ~ • ~ • • • ~ ~ l ALL UNION SOPHOMORES Come In And Pick Up Your Union College Key GRATIS Maurice B. {}au hart & So:ns \' f!11i01l (;rmluafps in Graul)(lrl family'' 166 Jay Street . ' . ~- Nusbaum's rro utfitters to Men and Young Men, 447-451 STATE ST. SCHENECTADY Collegiate Research & Advisory Service 2 Sylvan St. Rutherford, N.J. 07070 (201) 933-6Il7 (3979) \A complete line of writing services SUMMERS-Monday-Friday 10-2 FALL-SPRING-Mon.-Fri 9:30-4:30, Sat. 11-4 • FOR LIQUOR & WINE Try JAKE LIPSTEIN'S 464 State Street· FR 4-1888 ~ • ~ • Preregistration materials for the fall term 1972-73 became available in Room · 2, Administrative Building, today, Wednesday, May lOth. All students not graduating this coming June should report to secure their materia!s or to give notice that they do not intend to return to Union for the fall term, whatever the reason. Meetings with Faculty Ad\ iscrs will take place during the week of May 15-19. Students should be alert for announcements hy some departments that ~pecial hours have been c,tablished for advising students. Likewise, individual advisers may establish their own arrangements or schedule. Consequently, students should ascertain in advance what procedure will be in effect. Students are urged to promptly obtain their preregistration materials. Several days have been provided for students to do their .. homework\ before meeting with advisers. Fvrthermore, some courses will require a preliminary sign-up, and the deadline for this is Monday the 15th, Details of this procedure are contained in the instructions that accompa,n:y the preregistration materials. * * * * TheFe will be a coed floor next year, siiite by suite on third floor Fox, south side, if enotlgh interest is shown. Among the housing l0tteries wi:ll be a separate one for the coed .floor. See your RA for details. * * * * There will be a meeting in SS 016 of all members of the junior class who are planning to go to graduate and professionals schools (not including medical and dental schools or allied health professions) on Thursday, May I I at 4:30 p.m. Application procedures, financial aids and admission examinations will be discussed. * * * * The IEEE, ASCE, and ASME will hold the annual: Spring Picnic at Thatcher Park on Saturday. May 27, from 12 noon till 6 p.m. There will be plenty of hotdogs, hamburgers, and BEER, all for the donation of only 50¢. Reservations must be made in the EE, CE, or ME offices hy May 17. * * * * Due to an oversight. several committees were not included in the original list for applicants. Applications are now available for the following C. ommirtees: Salary, Promotions and Tenure, Foreign Students, Honors and Fellowships, Standing of Students, and Study Abroad. There are two corrections to the original list. The Conduct and the Committee on Committees are not open to Student applications. * * * * On Friday. May 12, the ASCE will be sponsoring a field trip to the Gilboa Pumped Storage project. We will be leaving from Potter Lab at 12:00 and should return for supper. Anyone who would be interested in seeing this construction site can sign up in Butterfield Hall, or call Peter Tavino at 346-9211. * * * * BLITHER The latest in fine drama at Union College will unfold at N ott Memorial Theatre when the Mountebanks present Harold Pinter's A SUgtat Ache on May II, 12 and 13. Pinter examines the conflict between two old married people and the difficulty with ~which they cope with the minutest problems. Directed by veteran actor Tom Hord, the cast includes seasoned actors Steve Kronish, . Abby Schut:cer, and J 0hn Devlin. Tht:re will be no fee for admission to the play; however, it is .suggested that those students wishing to attend the production should put their :names and number of tickets needed on a reserVation list in the Box Office by phoning (370-6153) or by stopping in the theatre. Box Office hours are between 1 and 8 o'Clock every day. . * * * * The last session of the Student- Faculty Bridge Club will be held on May 23 in the Hale House Faculty Lounge at 7:45 p.m. All those interested in attending are welcome. The results of the last tournament were as follows: I. Paul Chansky-Tom Hartman 2. Bob Lavin-Marc Maller 3. Prof. Sowa-Mr. Usher The winners of the Union College Bridge Tournament held over the entire year were as follows: I. Bob Lavin 2. Paul Chansky 3. Marc Maller * * * * Dr. Yo:nah Alexander, Professor of International Studies at SUNY Oneonta, will deliver a speech sponsored by Hillel, ihursday at 8:00 p.m. in HU 115. A graduate of Roosevelt College, Dr. Alexander holds an M.A. from the University of Chicago and a PhD. from Colurpbia University. In addi:ion. he has also studied at Hebrew University, Yeshiva U niver~!ty, Syracuse, and the University of Toronto. And, he present]} teaches at American llniversity and Columbia when not at Oneonta. Dr. Alexander is a specialist in International Affairs, the Middle East, Africa, and Jewish Studies. He is the author of four books on the U.N.. Israel, and the Middle East, and some twenty articles and study guides on the Middle East, Africa. and Israel. His topic for Thursday's lecture will be \Israel's Social and Economic Problems.\ The entire college communi!\' is invited to the lecture and t.he informal discussion which \Vill follow; coffee, donuts and sherrY will be served · * * * * Anyone who has any mounted prints to be shown in the Photo Society exhibit should give them to Mike Milsom at 313 Davidson hy May 15. Contributions from all members are invited. All photos must have photographer's name and address on the back. * * * * There are 109 delegates from New Jersey. Want to help elect ones who favor McGovern? Call Joe Chapman at 370-0715. * * * * MEMORIAL Sherwood Fox died a year ago last February. Most of us who had contact with him still feel a great sense of loss at his passing. I have recently learned that a memorial to Dr. Fox is being planned in the form of a tree to be r:anted in Jackson's Gardens. Dr. William Stone of the Math Department is currently collecting funds for this project which wiH include a small plaque at the base commerating Dr. Fox. Several years ago I went through a very troubled time and decided to leave school. Sherwood Fox was one of the few · people on campus who seemed to understand where I was going and why. For his advice and counsel at this-and other titnes I have always been grateftil. If you share my feelings about Dr. Fox I urge you to support this project. Sincerely, DavidS. Robbins This Friday 'nigp.t, May 12, at 8:30 p'.m., the ·Union College· Coffeehouse will present Bob McCarthy and Patterns. Bop is a Cambridge folk-blues composer an,d performer, in the style ·of Paul MacNeil and Jaime Brockett, while Patterns offers a variety of old, traditional music a' Ia Peter, Paul and Mary. Admission is still only 50~. the coffee ami donuts are as free as ever, and it's all in the Old ChapeL * * * * The following members of the faculty have been appoimed to serve on ad hoc committees. for the purpose of investigating the qualifications of Professors Helen Birecka and Willard F. Enteman for continuing tenure: For Professor Birecka: Edward J. Craig, Electrical Engineering, Chairman; Raymond Rappaport, Jr., Biology; Kenneth L. Schick. Physics; Robert S. Sharlet, Political Science. For Professor Enteman: Arnold Seiken, Mathematics, Chairman; Sven R. Peterson, Philosophy; Michael Shin~gel, English; Manfred Jonas, History. Any member of the student body or · faculty who · has personal;· first hand acquaintance with the faculty members _being judged for tenure may make representation in writing to the Chairman of the relevant ad hoc committee. This should be done within the next week in order to permit the committees to . meet the deadline for its report. A $10.00 reward is being offered for the return of a Tenor Baroque Recorder and its accessories intact. It was taken from 202 South College Friday evening 5 May. No questions will be asked upon its return. Ask for Peter. * * * * Heck's Travel Bureau Inc. No Service Charge • 2 Locations DOWNTOWN 149 Barrett St.,. Ph, 346r3431 MOHAWK MALL Ph. 310-0824 l>'o by He<~ amlleal'e the rest '\us. ~ ~ ~ M LOWEST t JET-FARES jlO EURIP£ Whatever your age,~ SA\l.E money on Icelandic AirJ.ioes' Jets from New York to lux- embourg in the heart of Eu- rope. Our fares are lowest of any scheduled airline. UNDER 21?-0ur roi.R'Jd-trip Youth\ Fares are $180. {win- ter), $205 (spring, fall), and $270 (summer), ages 12 thru 21. Also, exclusive one-: way Youth Fares. OVER 21?-Stay overseas 46 days up to a year and you'll SAVE $27 4 this sum- mer, $247 this spring and fall against lowest compara- ble fr;,res of other.,scheduled airlines. Great for teachers and grad students. See your travel agent for valiQ dates, reservations. --------.,. .... ~---sa.~ To: Icelandic MrHnes 630 Fifth Avenue, N.Y.l0020 I (212} PL 7-8585 I Sei'ld folder CN on Lowest Jet I Fares to Europe. I Name, ________ 1 Street I City I State Zip_l My travel agent is ____ I -----~------------- All tarts Sllbject to change. ICElANDIC !: (!, l • \ \) - I 1 [ anc the ad'< exp diff fro1 In me1 pre con .tha stre sol• roo pro sor sho am gra to I< sea m pro lim I \an a mir !\ to bef< poll cou dor mee Tru pul bef< at mee det, opil up; v faci F go, prir ?ep lS I sho nee' Col rea( it ~ this for the The pre1 stuc uniJ wh<

at a er a y. t, 1, g s y --------- CONCORDIENSIS, Wednesday, May 10. 1972 7 In Concert otton Is King In Chapel THE PROPOSITION: An improvisational revue H'ith music, stories, and g~es. Each show is improvised from beginning to end, bast?d entirely on situ(ltions, words, and topics suggested from the audience. The show will appear on Parents' Weekmd, May 13, at 8:30p.m .. in the Chapel. Tickets are $2.00for Union College student-s and their guests (including parents) and $2.50 for all others. They are now on sale at Student A ctivitil;s and will be available at Parents' Registration on May 13 and at the door. Provost Candidate Continued from. Page 1 by TOM HUDAK I never quite believed the story of the Pied Piper ·of Falmouth. Living creatures. just couldn't be so fascinated by a musician, but that was before 1 saw James Cotton and his blues band Friday night. The people who were lucky enough to at.tend the concert would ha·\'e followed him anywhere. The James Cotton Blues Band is composed of some of the most talented musicians I have ever been- fortunate enol:lgh to see. Cotton played with blues greats B. B. King and Mw;ldy Waters i.n 'his ead~' career and his vocals and harmonica ; playing are substantial proof of his experience. When lead ~uitarist Mat.t Murphy played · It was impossible to distinguish any individual movements of his finge:r s. His hand flowed up and down the neck of the guitar, his finger t\ps a blur, and aU the time he was almost motionless with only his biceps bulging or an occasional big smile breaking from his mollth. Jesse Green on drums, Robin Anderson on bass, and Jesse Hawkins on tenor sax rounded out Jimmy's band with no less than exceptional talent. Standing Ovations The band 'Game on stage and played two jams one of which was Johnny River's \Seventh Son\. Then, James Cotton walked on stage with a giant beer belly on his six foot-two frame and a smile large enough to match. The audience was thrilled as five black, talented musicians played the blues. On every jam each member showed that they knew their style of music. Anderson's bass solos were fascinating and Cotton was impressive with his harp playing. photo b~ Rick Judd James Cotton at the harp No one sat down the last half of the concert and the ovations from the crowd that filled only two thirds of the chapel were as loud as those of a capacity crowd. The frenzy peaked when Cotton descended the stage stairs, microphone in hand, to walk down the aisles singing in his powerful blues voice. .The crowd that stood the atsles parted effortlessly as if he were a saint. Halfway down the center aisle he dropped to his knees still singing. Back ort stage he finished with a somersault across the floor. The ovation that followed was deafening. Cotton, his shirt soaked in sweat. was coaxed back for two encores. As the audience left they were still hungry for more. It's unfortuante that more people weren't there to enjoy this tremendous concert. Clapton,' Mayall, Allman . Brothers: and Johnny Winter to name JUSt a few, have their roots in blues and they are top names anywhere. but James Cotton, a blues veteran of some fifteen years. is ignored. For what he gives of himself, he deserves much mtm: in return. send Mom a sweet SUrprise: Dr. Macmillan responaed to another question by discussing the \definite educational advantages,\ particularly the exposure of the student . to different points of view, resuitmg from transdisciplinary programs. In the matter of ~eaching methods Macmillan said that he prefers ' the instruction of conceptual information rather .than mechanital materiaL and stressed the value of problem- solving. In his words,. \there is room for an experimental program at Union,\ but some sort of \structured education\ should be maintained. Students anxious about the growth of graduate programs here were told by Macmillan that large- scale graduate programs are \not in the cards,\ but that these programs remain valuable on a limited basis. provide remedial programs for them, but cautioned that such remedial activity should not extend throughout the student's four years. Answering a hypothetical situation involving student protest, Macmillan stated that while he personally could approve an antiwar statement he could not commit the College to such a position. He indicated that he would not move immediately again1>t stud~nts occupying buildings as long as property damage did not occur, Senate OK's Bills Dr. Macmillan asserted that \an institution such as Union has a responsibility\ to recruit minority group students and Those present at the meeting probably left with a variety of opinions concerning Dr~ Macmillan, but there is general agreement· that his personality appears conciliatory and low- key.· To cite his· own words, \You don't want an environment where things are done by edict.\ Another candidate for provost, Dr. George Leppert, is scheduled to be on campus the latter part of this week and will meet with students Friday evening at 8:30 in SS117. Continued from Page 1 questioned the significance of a \W\ on a record, and some . pointed out that it merely · conveyed information, ther~fore it is not necessarily negative. Some, including Division Ill representative Professor Roth pointed out that its presence on the record would be preferable to complete absence of notation. The motion carried, 9-7. C. The only one of the proposals to be approved by the CAC allows a student to enter a Faga, McCabe I~ervi~w McCabe: \The athletic South Africa is an example of Continued from Page 1 facilities are so far behind every the ultimate in racism. I don't , other school. Union used to be feel it is fair to put Union on that McCabe: \I hope to get back an initiator, an innovator in level.\ to the student body more than things like the Field House ba~k What kind of relationship will before. I could do this through in the Fifties' and Colnp. Ed. m. you have with the polls of the student bod~, and. I the Sixties'. But we've fallen Administration, the Board of could also hold meetmgs m behind. When we talk about Trustees 1 faculty, etc? dorms before I go to the Trustee athletic facilities,. the. first t~ing Faga: \Well I plan to me~t meetings. The agenda for the that comes to mmd IS the Fteld with all the Trustees, and I will Trustee meeting, which could be House. Intramurals. are also v~ry go to every meeting of the published in Concordy important. In the Wmter, the ftrst Trustees up until graduation so beforehand, would be discussed game begins at seven and the last that they will understand the at these dorm meetings. These game begins at e~even.\ M~Cabe position of students on the issues. meetings would be useful in indicated that this was evidence 1 want to have full student body determining what student of the kind of student interest in participation when decisions are opinion is on the issues to come the athletic facilities. \We were made. We can make these people up at the Trustee meeting.\ an initiator but we've sat on our responsive to us.'' What about the athletic duffs and fallen,behind .. \ McCabe: \I hope I can have a facilities or .a student center? Is Union a racist institution? good relationship with the Faga:: \Well as far as prior!ties Faga: \No I don't think we're Trustees. I know a few of the go, the library should be. given racist at all. Unioh College has Trustees, and just knowing them prime consideration. Then, moved rapidly towards some before I go Into a meeting is depending on how much money kind of socio-economic diver.sity helpful. I also feel that this rests is left over, the student center ... I think the Referendt:m might partly with the Board of should receive some funding. We have been passed had there been Trustees. I'm willing to do my need a student center. And if the tnore planning on the part of the best and I hope they try their College can get Carnegie Hall organizers, i.e., how much money best.\ McCabe also added: \It is ready .for occupancy, i.e., so that would be spent, how it wo~ld be important that when you meet it will pass the bUilding codes, spent, who would spend 1t, t~e with the Trustees you must k_now this would be a good opportunity school, students, or faculty. As tt how the student body feels about for students to work fogether on was worded it just had to go.\ the issues. When they ask 'How the completion of the building. McCabe: \Racist is too strong do the students feel about this?' !here are a lot of kids who are a term. Union might be a .little and you say 'Well, I personally pretty handy with tools, and the behind the times as far as feel .. .' That's not good enough, student center might be sort of a discrimination is concerned. you've got to know how the unifying work project for the 'Racist' is a strong term, the student body feels.\ whole carnpus. strongest term I can think of ... course until the end of the third week. D. A student will be allowed to drop a course without penalty until the day of the scheduled final examination, for any reason approved by his instructor and advisor, or dean. Some Senators felt that such a measure would be harmful to the student because it would give him an easy way out of failing grades, undermining the integrity of the grading system. Others felt that the student should be allo'wed to make such a decision without penalty. The motion passed, 8-7. E. A student may take an incomplete for any reason with the permission of his instructor, who may refer the student to the dean. There was extensive discussion of permission required to obtain an incomplete. Many faculty members felt that, as instructors. they accepted some responsibility in the granting of an incomplete; therefore they wanted to have the power to grant them. Other faculty members were reluctant to involve themselves in matters which the student might prefer to keep private. For this reason, the provision that the instructor be allowed to refer the student to the dean was included. F. A student may change his advisor at any time if the new faculty member, who woul? be the student's new advisor. consents to the change. G. A student may have until the end of the third week to decide whether or not to take a course pass/ fail. Robin Waring, Division IV student representative, asked the Senate to give emergency consideration to a motion to urge all interested students and faculty to attend the Moratorium rally. The measure- was given the requested consiqeration, but defeated. FTD sweet surprise #I Usually available for $1500* less than . When you'd like to be there and can't, let Mom know you haven't forgotten Mother's Day. Send her a Sweet Surprise by FTD. But send it early. Place your order today. FTD will send a beautiful Mother's Day bouquet in a bright and happy, imported cer- amic watering pitcher to your Mom almost anywhere in the U.S. or Canada. FTD sweet surprise#2 Or send Mom a hardy, green and growing plant. .. some· thlng she'll cherish year 'round. The plant in the im- ported watering pitcher is usually available for less than SI2SO· And send it early. That11 really surprise her. • As an indepen<l!lnt businessman. each FTD Member Flonst sets his own prices. © 1972 F\orisls' Trans\\orid Delivery As- sociation. ·

' I :. I. I I I j I , 8 CONCORDIENS!S, Wednesday, Mqy 10; 1972, Morenstein I've been lhose routes before (well sort of) that doesn't ·explain what I'm doing now,\ Continued from Page 4 yippie. He said that he was thumbing down to New York to \celebrate life\ and look for ·'chicks\ at 'the \off Nixon Be-in\.- Realizing that he had answered my question before I had even asked it, I concluded for a fourtll time \Yeah I've been that route before (well' almost) but that doesn't explain what I'm doing now. As I wheeled onto the Major Deegan 1 looked into my re~r view mirror and gazed upon the strange collection of people I had gathered. Despite the fact that they were all engrossed in the creations -of R. Crumb, I came H> a stark realization. I realized that since leaving Schenectady, not only had I been exposed to the entin; spectrum of reasons for attending a peace demonstration, but I had also. w:itnessed, in an exaggerated form, my own political evolution. I was impressed, and yet -confused. \How was it then, \ I asked myself \that I couldn't understand why I was going to this demonstration?\ Desperately I scanned the road ahead for the final hitchhi:ker; for that wise old man; that \Mr. Natural\ character~ who could explain my actions to me. He was nowhere to be seen. On the approach t.o the Tappan Zee Bridge I pulled over to give another two \men of the open road\ rides. Other that the fact that these two hitchhikers. appeared to be identical twins, they were rather nondescript. Each seemed to be· about thirty, was bespectacled, wore his hair in a butch cFew, and was d~essed in deck .shoes, duck pants, and a Beethoven sweatshirt. In introducing themselves to me one said that he was an ~anarchist\ while the other described himself as a \political cynic for peace'' Ollt ·Of habit as much as out of intellectual curiosity, I asked each why he was going to the rally. The \anarchist\ answered ·first. He began by saying that in his mind societal structure was innately evil. It necessitated both rigid values and. an hierarchical \hain of command, which together, inevitably resulted in conflict and the detatched intellectual abstraction of human difficulties. He cited the Vietnam War as proof of this assertion and went on to say that he felt the best ~ociety would be that in which everyone did as he pleased. He acknowledged that this was an impossib·ility given the interdependent nature of modern man, but- declard, nonetheless, that he was determined to live by his own rules, neither imposing upon others nor ·expecting anything from·~ them. He concluded by explaining that he was going to the rally, to define himself, only for himself, as an individual opposed to the death and misery of war. Everybody yawned, and ihe other twin, the \Political cynic for peace\ spoke. He said that after seven years he really did not understand the war anymore. The only thing he knew was that he didn't trust politicians. He asserted that he was going to the rally because he felt demonstrations against the war served to keep Nixon in line: that they were thorns in his side which made sure that he directed his Vietnam policy towards disengagement. I reflected upon what each brother had said only long enough to realize \Yeah. Galdston Continued from Page 4 year. Second, that the faculty and administrators at Union lack any real moral commitment to the causes some of us feel most strongly about. . Sadly enough. the Strike and the two years after it have brought one truth home. We are a new generation, but beyond our superficial social habits, how differently have we acted from those we so vehemently criticize? Silent majority or vocal minority, the noise often sounds the ~arne. Johnson Continued from Page 4 The youth of the town that clay had watched from the sidelines. There were no protests and no incidents. But from the blank looks on the faces of some, there was no appreciation and little understanding. However. like the man in Joe's had said four hours earlier, many people were psyched up today. Most of those in attendence had enjoyed themselves during the parade and were enjoying themselves after. There was plenty of food and plenty of drink. The chatter was neighborly, animated and happy. The sophistication that dictates how such events are to be eschewed or at best, barely tolerated, was absent. \Loyalty Day\ in Hudson, N.Y. was that kind of holiday. Phil Johnson has been a Coast Guard reserl'ist for the past .flve years, l/ 1 !2 months. PORK SURPR\~E f££\. O»E 6-~ACK SC~AtfER StERE. ~~~ ~~li'MS '··:·.----~~ Schaefer Breweries New York and Albany, N.Y., Balt~rnore, Md, Leh1gh Valley. Pa. . .. 2 . GARBAGE COLLECTION WINS PRIZE Paul Dale won first place in the IEEE .Paper Contest held on May 2. 1972, with his entry entitled \Garbage Collection in LISP\. Robert Saltzman and Te)( McCarg of the venera! up wi~~ his ent·ry. entitied \A Eloectric Research and Charac.ter · Rec.ognition Develop menf Lab oratories Algorithm\. judged his presentation of a Dale will compete in the Upper method of finding and ejecting New York area of Region I unnecessary computer memory in Contest, which will be held at list processing as the best paper; Rochester Institute of Evangelos Cosrp.i~is wa~ runner-, Technology on May 12, 1972. ' + The Wild Times Begin · May· 4·5·6· This weekend, follow the lights in the sky, to the grand opening of the Varsity Inn, the Capital District's newest happening place. The -\V.I.\ ... with a dance floor alive with a rainbow of pulsating lights, big, beautiful drinks and gobs o:f parking. Th€ Varsity Inn where g.ood times are an everytime thing. Make it to the \V.I.\ Flt. 20 Route 155 (halfway between Rt. 5 and Rt. 20), Colonie

r I t f Examination Schedule Inside founded at Union College. in 1877 Vol. 101, No. 46 SCHENECTADY, NEW YORK Wednesday 9 May\17, 1972 ·20.cents Leppert Urges Student Voice by PETER DICKERMAN Dr. George Leppert, the second in a series of provost candidates to visit the campus, told a small audience of students last Friday night that in the office of provost he would work toward greater studen·t participation in the decision- making process through information and open discussion. Currently Chairman of the Department of Mechanical Engineering at Clarkson University, Dr. Leppert explained that he Wanted the job here because '\I can . function much better in a school that's liberal education-oriented.\ He Dr. George Leppert described Union as a place where a student can and should receive a liberal education in addition to preparatory professional studies. Asserting that colleges have a \great\ responsibility to the outside community, Leppert spoke in support of academic projects which would serve the community and provide students with experience in solving actual concrete problems. He stated that minority group applicants should be encouraged to enroll, hopefully witlr financial- aid, but that these prospective students should be made aware of the nature of the, College environment before they make a fiinal decision. According ' ) Leppert, minority group recruitment with concurrent remedial work when desired is necessary. for Union to preserve its academic reputation in the contemporary world. Dt, Leppert assured the students present that the provost wiii possess .a high degree of internal administrative autonomy, and further that .. a yrovost couldn't function\ if )lis. authority were to be ignored or circumvented. In his words, \'l see the provost's job ... l\S getting the students and faculty to face the real questions,\ such as the problem of raising funds. Leppert said that whenever possible the provost should keep his door open to students, including contacts beyond the eight-hour work day. Questioned concerning his educational philosophy, Leppert indicated his support for the establishment of a student- faculty committee to study this matter and submit proposals. He added that an initial decision must be made as to what Union should attempt to accomplish, and this decisio.n cannot be made by one administrator. Dr. Leppert talked of the need to ••reduce the arrogance level\ Relaxing by the new swimming hole, a trio of Chi Psi's finest sun•ey God's ~;'Yath. More photos inside on pages 4 and 5. which tends to separate academic by PM CAIN Ferkiss Stresses Need To . Control Technology stirrup, the horse· rider could ... - d · ,. F k., - d disciplines (perhaps through Doctor Victor Ferkiss, a ttansdisciplinary programs), professor of government at and mentioned that Union's..,. Georgetown University and Center system \bothers me.\ author ef several books, was Responding to a hypothetical VITA's guest speaker last sittuation involving seizure of a Thursday night. Fer.kiss was on a, building by students, Leppert panel with Professor Roth of stated that he would speak with the Biology department and the protestors while allowing Union's president, Dr. Harold them to occupy the building for Martin. Ferkiss, who spoke first, \a reasonable length of time•• if talked about the myth and reality the demonstration is peaceful of \Technological Man.\ and does not cause \personal There has been an anti- injury.\ technological element throughout After the discussion had American history and English ended, members of the group literature, Ferkiss said. In talking seemed impressed by two points about technological change and of emphasis: Dr. Leppert's urging social control, he said, we must that academicians innovate and ask whether or not we are the \change direction,\ and his masters of technology or to what assertion that the administration extent technology is an has a responsibility to lead independent variable. Or, Ferkiss withoutactingunilaterally, asks, is technology an Another candidate for provost, autonomous force compelling us Dr. H. Donald Rouse, will meet to act or move in a c!ertain iriformally with students on direction? Thursday, May 18 at 8:30p.m. in Ferkiss gave the example of HU 115. All those interested the stirrup as a significant are urged to attend. technological change. With the 1mme mcy, er 1ss asserte , withstand a great deal of shock the implications of which are not without being turned over. As a completely clear at this time. result, horsemen dominated the Ferkiss at this point related an warfare of the medieval period. incident that occurred ' at- a Also, since horses were conference on Latin America relatively expensive, only a small that he recently attended. Several minority of gentry could keep of the conference . participants them. Society, Ferkiss said. from Latin American nations passed into control of the claimed .that American television \horsed gentry.\ The whole code was just \another method of of chivalry, the basis for life in imperialism, an insidious medieval society, can be traced to propaganda tool.\ This incident thestirrup. serves to illustrate the In modern times the ' importance attached to television automobile and television have as a technological force. had tremendous effects. Television has a certain Continued on Page 3 Senate Steams Referendum Due Meeting for the first time under the Presidency of Tony Faga, the Studenf Senate attempted to deal with a variety of topics Tuesday night amid much debate. Murray Named Trustee The senators present were handed ballots for the special referendum which is to take place during the next few days. This situuation dervies from a somewhat complicated background. At its last meeting the AU College Senate approved three proposals dealing with curricular affairs, specifically with the student's right to drop courses during the term and to take less than a full course load. Dr. Robert F. Murray Jr., Chief of Medical Genetics and Pediatrics at the Howard University College of Medicine has been elected an alumnus trustee of Union. Dr. Murray, a 1953 graduate of the College, will serve a fo11r yeaF .;t.@rm as one of four alumnus trustees on the 24 m~mber governing board. He succeeds Ralph D. Semerad of Troy, N. Y., who has served two terms as an alumnus trustee and therefore was ineligible for re- election. Dr. Murray was named to the Trustee post at the annual spring meeting of Union's Alumni Council. A native of Newburgh, N.Y., he was an honors graduate of Union with a pre-medicine .' Dr. Robert Murray, Jr. major· and in addition, was an outstanding college athlete earning letterg in cross country, basketball and track, captaining the latter sport in his senior year. He won the Bailey Cup in 1953 as the student who had given the ··greatest service to the college. He earned his medical degree at the University of Rochester Medical School, taking a year off in the process to study biochemistry at the University of Heidelberg, Germany under a Rotary Foundation Fellowship. He later did post doctoral work il'l genetics at the University of Washington. After working with the U.S. Pubblic 1-Iealth Service as a staff surgeon and investigator, he joined the Howard University faculty in 1967. He became head of the tnedical genetics unit in the department of pediatrics tHe following year. Dr. Murray is married, has three children and lives in Washington, D.C. However, the Governanance Report provides that a referendum be held if one-fifth of the faculty or one-fifth of the student body sign a petition challenging an action of the All College Senate. In this case, one-fifth of the faculty has signed such a petition, resulting in separate student and faculty votes on the issue. If both students and faculty agree in support of a proposal, it will pass; if both factions reject a proposal, it will obviously fail. Yet, if students and faculty disagree on a given proposal in the voting tabulation, that proposal would return to the College Senate and could not be approved without a two-thirds vote. There was some sentimeilt at the Student Senate meeting among those who support the course proposals that a segment of the faculty is using the referendum as a tool for defeating these proposals, as a split vote in the referendum would almost certainly mean that such changes would be ruled out for this semester. 'In other matters, the Senate agreed in preliminary votes to · expand the size of the Social Committee from 5 to 12 members and to invoke a compulsory attendance jaw for student senators. Positive votes are necessary at the next Senate meeting before these actions take effect. The Senate constitution was debated and eventually tabled. Observers reported that the meeting was marked by relatively good attendance and an unusually high level of acrimony. /'

' I l ! I I I , ' i' I, I i 2 . CONCORDIENSJS;'Wednesday, May 17, 1972 CONCORDIENSIS rounded at UniQn CoUece in 1877 \SURF'S UP!\ -Ed Kanowitz, May 16, 1972 MIKE MESEROLE - editor-in-chief p.[JER BICKERMAN;DAVID ENGEL.- ass9ciate editors JOE ACHENBAUM- business manager GEORG·E RAIN- managing editor MARK MINDEL-.. sports editor DAVE CONREY - photography editor MI·KE HURLEY, MARK SHU~MAN- advertising TOM CONLEY - subscriptions STAFF: Tim Cain, John Quirk, Patty Sipe, Ken Gilpin, Jim Patrick Smith, R. Treat Rin~ar, Jr., Gil Church, John Calender, Pat Bunn, Luke Dillon, Bill Killen, Mark Campbell, M.ark U rmaa, Les Goldman, Ruth Morton, Frank DeLucia, Joel Roslyn, Bill Holleran, Tom Hudak, Steve Manus, Rick Judd, Paul Rieschick, The Eaty Gourmets, Joe Chapman, Sam Brody, Alison Sloat. Four 'Year Term Who should speak for the Class of 1972 on Graduation Day next month? Tradition assigns the role of Senior spokesman to the class valedictorian, that student with the highest cumulative academic average· over his or her stay at Union. So be it, but this June the valedictory address will be delivered by a transfer student who has been at Union for only two years. Technically, the qualifications are sound - consistantly high grades - but is a person who has been here only half as long as the majority of the graduating class, really qualified to deliver the class' commencement address? It is the view of this newspaper that such a ,person cannot begin to truly reflect the growth and voice of the Senior class, and Concordiensis supports the movement to assign another class spokesman to speak for the graduating seniors June lOth. Graduation ceremonies are boring enough without listening to a person who is supposedly speaking for the graduating class, but who never spent freshman or sophomore year here. -Referendum: Advise & Consent To: Union College Faculty and Students in time for the final meeting of the College From: Liaison and Governance Senate on May 25th. Thank you for your Committee cooperation and. participati0n in this At the May 2nd meeting of the College referendum. Senate this spring proposals 17, 18 and 21 According to the Constitution, a simple were approved. The Constitution majority vote \for\ these proposals by requires that the Liaison and Governance both faculty and students affirms the Committee conduct a referendum on proposals passed by the College Senate. petition of one-firth of the faculty or one- Similarly a simple majority vote \against\ fifth of the student body challenging an these proposals by both faculty and action of the College Senate. The Agenda students rejects these proposals. And a Committee has received a faculty petition divided vote between faculty and students. signed by sixty-three members of the 'whereby the referendum is approved by a faculty opposing proposals 17, 18, and 21. majority of either the student body or the and President Martin has asked the faculty and rejected by the other. requires Liaison and Governance Committee to that two-thirds of the College Senate conduct a referendum of the faculty and reaffirm the proposals, individually, for student body of Union College on these may .or all of them to be implemented in proposals prior to the last scheduled the fall of 1972. meeting of College Senate on May 25th. Proposal 17: Listed below are proposals 17. 18, and A student, with the consent of his 21. Please register your vote on each advisor, may take less than a full course proposal by marking an X in the load during a given term. appropriate hox. Faculty ballots should Proposal 18: be returned in the envelopes provided. A student may drop a course up to the signed and addressed to Professor end of the sixth week of a term for any Michael Shinagel. Department of English, reason and without penalty. upon proper Humanities. Building by Monday notification to the Registrar. afternoon. Student ballots should be Proposal ~1: returned to Student Senators with an A student may drop a course without accompanying signature (students living penalty after ~he end of the sixth week of off campus should complete ballots' in the a term ?ut pnor to the end of the t~.nth Student Activities Office by seeing Mrs. week of classes or the date of the hnal Mara). All ballots should be turned in examination, whichever is later, by Monday. May 22. at 5:00 p.m. so that provided th~ instructor and the student's the results can he validated and tabulated faculty advisor. or the dean. approve. Contordiensis is published every Tuesday and Friday during the college year, except during examination and vacation periods,. by the stude1lt bod>< of Union College. Editorial offices are located on the second floor of the Geology Building over the Rathskellar. Publication office: World Publications, 771 State Street. Schenectady, N.Y. 12307. Represented for national advertising by National Educational Advertising Service, Inc. College. Publishers' Representative, 360 Lexington Ave .• New York City. Second class postage paid at Schenectady, N.Y. Subscription rate: 20~ per issue. $8.00 per year; delivered anywhere in t!!e United States. Subscription orders, undeliverable copies. and change of address notices should be mailed to the newspaper at Union College. Schenectady, N.Y. 12308. Telephbnes: area code 518. Publisher: 346--2356. Editor-In-Chief: 346-9330. News, edi~orial. and business offices: 346--8614. letters to the Editor and Blither shoulc! be typed. double-spaced, written in English (or a reasonable facsimile thereot), and to the point. Unlcs.~ signed. editorials represent the opinions. of the editors of Concordlenais. Letters Hypocrites drawin& by Sandy Hulfaki!r Wallace has been shot by someone. Is he dead? No. Shit. I don't know for sure but I think a lot of people had that reaction at Union. A lot of people were laughing. Others didn't really care, just hoping it 'Would keep him out of the race. I say those people are hypocrites and fools. Hew. can someone who· laughs or doesn't care abQut the fact t,hat Wallace was shot condemn those who did the same thing when Martin Luther King or the Kennedys were shot? They Were Right and Wallace is Wrong, huh? Forget the fact that Wallace is a human being and has the right to life like anyone else. Look at it politically. If all you have to do is .shoot someone to get them out of the race, why not McGovern? Also, are you really that liberal and high-minded if you .are glad that ·a candidate that appeals to a largf segment of our country (some of these same people like McGovern) is literall_y shot out .of the race. Are you any better than what you say Wallace is if you hopt; he dies or can't run? And if you'd rather see him forced out of the race than take his ideas to the people (and hopefully lose fairly), aren't you really undemocratic, afraid and' intolerant? White is saving everybody~s soul exc(!pt your own. Paul T. Johnson '73 Get Hip, G.B. Dear Mr. Group Benefits, In response to your letter of racial concern . of May lOth, 1 feel that a more \Thorough an understanding of each other\ must be attained. We must repair your logic and build a greater balance of awareness, not only of the blacks, but of ourselves also. Your editorial began with the statement \I feel that the singling out of blacks for special privileges is uncalled for.\ This statement presupposes that your values and culture are applicable and desired by everyone. They are not! To believe that your values should be proclaimed as best for the group is taking a heavy resp•msibility upon your shoulders. It's the type of dis~ased responsibility known throughout history as the \white man's burden,\ mercantilism, or Vietnarn. It is superior paternalism. You react to the blacks calling for a cultural center, and your letter seems to indicate that their values are not your values. And therefore they are not valuable? Do you believe that your values are their values? Why should the \whole idea of a Black Alliance seem to be quite self-defeating\? Self-defeating for whom? for you? or the blacks? Now that you have spoken for .. the Group Benefit,\ let us examine the group! It seems as if there are many group activities upon Union College's campus. Fraternities flourish. Are they beneficial to the entire community? Or do they benefit that 25% of the student body, who can exercise their rights to friendship and common ideas by living together. There are football teams, swimming teams, track teams, Rugby clubs, and Outing Clubs - all these teams and groups are composed of a few individuals who share a common interest in sports. And groups can function for the betterment of the community. The administration 0r student council aid student affairs - these are groups with similar interests in the college. The faculty is a group which tries to educate another group, the students. Each group has its own special interests, its own ideas, its own special character or individuality. Why should such a furor be raised about a group of blacks living and relating together just as the whites do all over campus? Perhaps, someone feels they could relate too much? Are you afraid Mr. Group Benefits? It see{lls as if your opinion, your vaLues, will suffice for the entire community. Well they do not even suffice for me, so put down your idealistic paternalism and awaken to reality! There are many .groups on this campus which reflect and protect the individual views within their confines. The job of Union College is to coordinate the groups, to preserve and develop the integrity of the individuals which each group represents. Bl_ack people would like. to form a group. Would not this group benefit the community if it were admitted? And why is it not admitted? Because secure in your little room where you wrote your article, Mr. Group Benefits, you were surrounded by your f-riends.' Your friends are a group who respect your individuality, and allow you to speak without misunderstanding or degradation. I would imagine any human being wishes friends. Are not blacks human beings? And so from your secure standpoint what is self-defeating about the Black Alliance? Is it self-defeating that a black tries to be ah individual and voice himself, but that white administrators, white faculty, yes, even white Concordiensis seem to be · unaware of his words. When no one listens to you, do you feel defeated, mad, or dispirited? Racist attitudes will be only understood when we can span two cultures and live easily in both. Can· you live comfortably with the blacks, Mr. Group Benefits? Write down all the street language you know, man. Write down 'all your black football heroes. Write down ten black writers you have read. Write down the number of black writers for this paper! Hey, do you really know everything about a black? Anything? You don't even know much about yourself if you believe that you don't need integrity to live. White institutions destroy black integrity through imposing white values. lf!tegration, Hke your letter, means letting the blacks sHare your white culture and values. Can't you understand that that is a superior and paternalistic attitude which destroys another's integrity? A black cultural center is needed because black culture is different than white culture. So, why not teachih.mh sides? Or are you afraid to learn? · .. Bruce Cobb !J j l ' · . ~~ r Coffee Grounds There is a • tendency to blame all inconsiderate and destructive actions on the students and \townies\ wh·o inhabit the campus. But as with all generalities, this is not always the case as can be seen in certain recent-events on campus. In particular, the Arts Department is refusing usage of Old Chapel to the Coffee House. This is especially disheartening since the Coffee House has secured the building for its concert Friday night by going through all the proper channels! Also, in setting up their art display, they cut the chains securing the tables and stacked the tables to a height that is damaging to the table legs. It would have taken very little time and effort to ask for the key to unlock the tables and then stack them properly in a eonveni~nt place. Their inconsiderate actions have not only inconvenienced the Coffee House; at least twice in the past two weeks, their lack of respect for another campus· activity has inconvenienced the Social Committee, jeopardizing two of their functions. · Union College is supposed to be an environment where the students and faculty are able to \peacefully coexist.'' Are these actions the means to promote this coexistence? How could they be when the actions are so blatantly oblivious to the rights of the others involved. Respectfully, · Jeff Alifany Becky Grant DaveRobb

• . lr '. CONCORDIENSIS, Wednesday, May ll, 1972 Prize Day: Frost Hauls Cool Grand Walter A. Spencer Jr. of Homer, N.Y., and James T. Tedisco of Schenectady, won the top individual awards last Sah1rday as Union honored outstanding students in the annual Prize Day ceremonies. Spencer received the Frank Bailey Cup, awarded to the senior who has done the greatest service to the college. A political science major, he has been active in college organizations throughout his undergraduate career and last year served as president of the. student senac~e. Tedisco won the-Joseph Daggett Prize, given each year to the senior judged outstanding for his character and conduct. An exceptional athlete, h~ gained All-American horrors for leading the basketball team to its best season ever.and irr the process, broke all previoqsly standing individual records. · Both the Bailey Cup and the Daggett .Prize are voted by the faculty. The George H. Catlin Prize, oldest of the awards presented, was' giverr to seniors Theodore W. Berger of Poughkeepsie, N.Y., Paula Maras Frost of Schenectady, Robert W. Levis Jr:,· of 'Rochester, N.Y. and Els VanderWal of The Hague, the Netherlands. The Catlin Prize, begun in 1867, is awa·rded to seniors in the liberal arts fields who have the highest academic averages and are considered the most promising for graduate study and careers in celllege teaching, Mrs. Frost, a political science major who will be in the first group of women to graduate in the college's history this June, won the most individual awards, four, with a total cash value of $960, In. all,,...tP..ore th,~n.30 students received awards at the oqtdoor ceremonies on the steps of Library Plaza. The cash value of the awards thi~ year was more than $10,000; \'~IZ.t i.Jf.\'f,, J: .t/~~t e;l~1 i<.l:.bv' ,~ , 1\ il\:\'i 1:;:1/G I n.:.: 1\ ..... ,\IA<;,ffi UF THII\C: /JI~GTt-ti?i'- 1~ ~~~ lll-l 1 .:t\t~k t'(t. I<..<; ·Df.\ ~ ... H:rv.:Jti-! @ ;h\ 1 ~ ~\lift.: I: t'J.j ~~ t:.t: R.v ;J~IJ;~.Y R> \- \:}''~ .... T\-\,t-\:r.. l r\<-'f / ;Jif(\1 1ev 1~ Ul-r' vo~~N 't l!if\-T' • 1-€tl~..C. ;.,'1C~ C:.' ·~ W'i' \Ill- N.Jf\1rth-~ ~ t (. v..''til\ I (\~C J r 11-t!J~:;; \. c, :.'ZJ•\Y:-- • 1\l~ f..\{ l';:. ,·Jit J ... J, ........ t;.-.;'·, l..l ..-1\\.:.:-v £\ T\-1..:. ~~vt..._ \\(\ \· L.:~\f\\\lit:~{ 4 -~~~~I '\\1r.JrJ 1.1·1::. . 3 Linebacker Shifts 1he Eaty Gourmets '''·'!~ . ~'\ itr;u~ Breakfast In Schenectady For those who feel a need tO' start- the day with a nourishing, satisfying, well prepared, and above all inexpensive meal, Schenectady has what you're looking for. In spite of the generally low level of taste and refinement of the clientele to which Schenectady's better known ·breakfast establishments cater, there can be f.ound among these \}oints\ a surprisingly high level of consistency and quality. While prices do vary from place to place most are extremely reasonable if not down right cheap. Once again, as is the practice with the Eaty Gourmets, we have deliberatly neglected to review any of the chain establishments, (e.g. Howard Johnson's, etc.)· whose food and decor is altogether too bland .and plastic for the \cultured\ Union student. Topping our list of places where a great breakfast can always be found is · the Silver .~nit\et .. on . Erie Blvd. Generally speaking, we; found the Silver D. · tO' be ··1ow on grease, high on quality, and low in price, For example, two eggs, any style, with toast:· goes for' 55¢ or the same order with sausage for 85¢. Our personal favorite was their cheese omelet which went for $1. 10. Only two things annoyed us about the Silver Diner, first, the service is sometimes a bit shoddy and the waitresses have an amazing facility for being able to screw up your order, and second,. the Sunday morning after church crowd doesn't dig long hairs. Also in the diner category, we discovered three other places, Wally's on Erie Blvd.,Cavalier's also on Erie, and Crosstown Diner on Brandywine Ave., all of which compare favorably in most respects to th~ Silver Diner. Wally's, especially, is noted for Election Elections for Editor-In-Chief of Concordiensis for the next two terms will take place Tuesday_, May 23. All candidates must present written notification of their intentions to any member of the Senior Board of Concordiensis by next Tuesday. The Senior Board will determine wl;to is eligible to vote, based on work done for the paper this term. The election will be held that Tuesday night, May 23, at 7:30 p.m. in the Ce>ncordiensis office . , ip the Geology Bujlding .. The Eaty Gourmets take a brief time-out at the ballgame to digest breakfast. its generous . servings and, unfortunately, also for its grease. Grease also seems to be the major problem with Cavalier's and CrosstQwn, although if isn't quite bad enough to make you ill- unless, of course, you already have a weak stomach,· in which case you should stay home and eat cottage cheese. If you can take the prices and don't mind cleaning up your act just a bit, the VanDyck can be a -real treat, especially if you are an aficionado of eggs Benedict. The menu may be limited, but what is available is great. by PHYLLIS R. EDELMAN With pre-registration this week, students are choosing their Fall term· courses and their professors with care. Assisting the student with this task. credit must be given to Linebacker. tht: Union College Student (\ our~t: Evaluation. \Based solely on student opinion of the courses and their professors ... \ Linebacker questionnaires are handed out only by faculty members who wish to participate in the evaluation. In an effort to make Linebacker a more comprehensive evaluation of Union's courses and professors, students are urged to request faculty members to hand out questionnaires and cards the last week of the term, or during finals. Questionnaires answered as of the end of the Spring term will be keypunched and tabulated over the summer in order that Linebacker will be available at Fall registration. Though used by students to help them in determining their courses and professors, Linebacker also aids the Advisory Committee of Faculty in their decisions concerning faculty salaries, promotion, and tenure. In fi !ling out Linebacker questionnaires. students arl.' urged to real all yuestions carefullv. A~ ma\ he noted in tht: Winter .Term C~urse E\aluation. question 21. \'If ~·ou were to grade your instructnr \\·hat gr~tdt: would he rect:i\e?\ was omittt'd from the- data results. /\ecording to 3l.inehacker this tH.:curn:d because students failed to co- ordinate the grade given with the instructor's rating. Of those students whq gave their instructors \F'. 7!.4C( abo gave tht: instructor a rating of 1\0- 1000(. In a further effort to makt: Linebacker of greater value to both students and faculty. the format of rhe questionnaire will he changed as of this term. The questionnaire will he divided into four parts concerning the class. the instructor, data on the student. and optional space for faculty members to propose questions relevant to their course. These too will be tabulated hy the course evaluation committee. Run entirely hy students, those interested in working for Linebacker should send a note to Box #1229 or any student listed on last term's committee in Linebacker. For a mere 55q:, Crosstown provides a generous and delicious plate of hotcakes that, along with juice and coffee, is a meal in itself. Hotcakes, in fact, are Crosstown's specialty. If you want a real show while you're eating, you should stop in to Crosstown sometime between 3 a.m. and dawn and watch the night cook flip hotcakes. He's the best! For the really adventurous we suggest Nicholaus! You'll find no eggs or corn flakes on their menu but you will enjoy the best knockwurst and bloody Mary breakfast found anywhere in town, particularly on a Sunday morning. Well, in brief, that seems to be the story on breakfast in the electric city. Be sure to look· for our next column in which we will be revealing the Maxim's of Schenectady. Until then, happy eating and remember that the infirmary is willing to give you all the Bromo you need. Just tell them the Eaty Gourmets sent you. }.,erkiss Stresses Genuine Americana Coffee, by the way, at all of the above diners is generally good, but not quite the stuff from which great Maxwell House- wives are made. Sometimes you really need both lumps of sugar. _ The cuisine of all of these places is .pretty much what you'd expect. They're just simple run-of- the-mill diners, with simple people cooking simple meals for other simple people. It's what you might call genuine Americana. While we have so far tried to limit ourselves to establishments which ot rered the best compromise between price and quality we also understand that even the biggest spendthrift loosens his belt once in a while, artd, therefore, we have decided to also review two of the more classy hosts of the breakfast trade, Nicholaus' on State St. and the Van Dyck on Union St. Garbalogy Continued from Page 1 Today we find, Ferkiss said, \even in this remote part of the world\ there ate demonstrations in response to Nixon's latest policy change in Southeast Asia. This is a new way of responding to the world, Ferkiss asserted. A persuasive case could be made that the immediacy of television leads us to different political forms, he continued. Impatience is probably one of the spin-off consequences of television in the Paul B. Dale won first prize in electronic age. the Upstate New York Area In the future biology will IEEE Student Prize Paper probably be the \cutting edge\ of Contest held at Rochester change in modern societies. Institute of Technology on Possibilities are extant now, Friday, May 12.' His · paper, Ferkiss ·continued, of changing entitled \Garbage Collection in a IQ using drugs, determining sex Paged LISP Processor\ dealt before birth, and other practices with software design problems in which would have incalculable translating the LISP potential social consequences. programming language into \We realized now that the total machine language. society is subject to human Dale will now go on to the manipulation,\ he said. I.E.E.E. Region I Paper Contest. The variety of consequences This is the second' consecutive produced by new technology year that a Union College must be predicted and assessed. student has been chosen to The problem facing our society, represent Upsate New York in Ferkiss added, is to predict and the Region I tontest: · · a~sess · the s.econd or.der consequences of technological change, assess the extent of these consequ.ences, and .to 4uestion and evaluate these assessments. \We begin to make choices in terms of values,\ he :;aid, \and we are led inevitably into an ideological realm.\ Obviously, the idea will arise that everyone who b in some way affected hy technological development should have some voice in the direction the change will take. \If we are going to democratically control the destiny of our technological society . \ Fer kiss asserted, \we must come to grips with the power relationships among competing groups 1n our society.\ Ferkiss' opening remarks were followed by some hrief commenb from Doctor Roth and Pre~ident Martin. Ferkiss responded to the points made by these panelists. and then a general question. and answer period followed. Doctor Ferkiss was also a Peace Corps consultant at one time, so his lecture was particularly relevant to· the VITA personnel who made up a large share of the audience of thirty-five oeople in SS 016 last Thursday night.

4 - BENCHED: Beach boy Bill Simson looks for a good wave to ride amid the shooting rapids. CONCORDIENSIS, Wednesday, May 17, 1972 pholo by Les Kemam HANG FIVE:. Daredevil · -~~imson displays practised ·' ·· bench-riding artistry: • • SINK OR SWIM: EXAMINATION SCI Examinations will be held in the assigned rooms. Listed below is the code of the buildings to be used. AR - Arts Building BH - Bailey Hall BU - Butterfield Hall HU - Humanities Building NW - Science-Engineering Center (North Wing) OC - Old Chapel PY - Psychology Laboratory SS - Social Sciences Building Sl-1 - Steinmetz Hall SATURDAY; JUNE 3 9:00-11:00 A.M. Economics 10 (Elementary Economics, Part I) Sec. I ~ SS 117- Prof. J. E. Smith Economics 133 (Public Policy and the American Economy) · SS 112 - Prof. Herman English 166 (Modern English Fiction)- SS 016 - Prof. Niemeyer .. ' History IS (Modern America: The New Deal and After) ~ SS 115 - Prof. Jonas History 153 (English Society Since 1760) - SS 113 Prof. Finkelstein French l2 (Basic French Ill) -~ HU 116 - Prof. Thomas French 134 (The french Language in Practical Use II) Sec. I HU 016-- Prof. LeClerc ~ Spanish 12 (Basic Spanish Ill) -- HU 112 - Mrs. Asti7 Philosophy 21 (Symbolic Logic)·- HU 115 -~ Prof. Ludwig Accounting 10 <Accounting Principles) ~- OC - Mr. Malik, Mr. Roy Biology 12 (The Cell -- Core II) · BU 204 - Prof. Lambert Biology 159 (Plant Physiology) ~ SH 100 - Prof. Birecka Biology 160 (Functional Histology and Organology) AB 202 - Prof. Roth Mathematics 30 (Ordinary Differential Equations) Sec. I BH 104 - Prof. Fairchild Sec. 2 ~~ BH 20 I - Prof. Seiken Mathematics 33 (Abstract Algebra II) - BH 106 - Prof. Loughlin Physics 14 (Elements of Modern Physics) -- SH I 10 Prof. Pilcher E.E. 144 (Principles of Communication Systems) ~ SH 106 Prof. GalantowiC7 ••••••••••• • # ~- ''f',-.,_ ,..' SATURDAY, JUNE 3 2:00-4:00 P.M. Comp. Ed. 11 (Freshman Commons in Science anp Engineering) . Sec. 17 (Experimental Approach to Structural Behavior) - BU 109 - Mr. Pikul Comp. Ed. 80 (Individual Liberty and Social Order: Areas of Conflict) - SS 113 -- Prof. N. Allen Economics 11 (Elementary Economics, Part II) Sec. I - SS 117- Mr. Kershner Economics 131. (Microeconomic Analysis)__:_ SS 014 -Mr. Peno Economics 149 (Contemporary Economic Issues) - ... HU 110- Prof. Herman History 159 (The Soviet Period)- SS 115- Prof. Berk · Hebrew 12 (Basic Hebrew III) - HU 119 - Mr. Welkovics Sociology 38 (Sociology of. Deviant Behavior) HU 116- ·Prof. Nygard Statistics 10 (Introduction) Sec. I - BH 106- Mr. Hoiska Chemistry 134 (Organic Chemistry Ill) -:- SH 101 - Prof. Martin · Mathematics 127 (Numerical Analysis)- BH 102- Prof. Roulier Physics 136 (Classical Mechanics) - NW 222 - Prof. Wylen Psychology 30 (Theory of Personality) Sec. 2- SS 016- Prof. Graves Psychology 36 (The Psychology of Man-Machine Systems) - PY 113 - Prof. Berthold Psychology 50 (Educational Psychology) - PY 102 - Prof. Girdner C.S. l2 (Fortran Programming) - BU 204 - Profs. T. Schwarz, G. Williams C.S. 127 (Numerical Methods in Differential Equations)- BH 102- Prof. Roulier •••••••••• MONDAY, JUNE 5 9:00-ll:OO A.M. Comp. Ed. 11 (Freshman Commons in Science and Engineering) Sec. I (Introduction to Computer Programming) - SH 110 - Prof. Zavisca Comp. Ed. 40 (The Beginnings of Democracy) - SS 016 - Prof. Reece Comp. Ed. 63 (Introduction to Astronomy) - BH 207 - Prof. Titus Economics 134 (Financial Analysis) - SS 117 - Prof. Behrens English 151 (Chaucer).- HU 110 :,_Prof. Murphy French 130 (Readings in Contempbrary French Literature)- HU 116 ~ Prof. Robetts.~1- German 11 (Basic German II) - HW< 117 - Mr. Kruger Biology 36 (Invertebrate Zoology} t.c,t BH •;H)4Ji+. · Prof. Dalgleish Biology 138 (Biology of Animal Parasites (Helminthology) - BH 108 - Prof. Styles Biology 140 (Biochemical and Molecular Genetics) - SS 115--,- Prof. Butzel Chemistry 16 (Inorganic Chemistry I) - NW 116 - Prof. Festa Chemistry 152 (Physicai Chemistry II) - SS I B- Prof. J. Daniels Geology 51 (Oceanography) ~ BU 204 - Prof. Zimmerman Mathematics 18 (Introduction to Abstract Systems) Sec. 1 - BH 201 ~Prof. Maddaus Sec. '2 ~ BH 102 - Prof. Behan Mathemati~s 134 (Differential Equations)~ BH 106 - Prof. Leach Psychology 10 (A First Course in Psychology) Sec. J - PY 102- Prof. Huntley Psychology 20 (Statistical Methods in Psychology) - PY 1 13 - Prof. Berthold E. 20 (Mechanics)- SH 219- Prof. Panlilio C.E. 30 (Structures) - BU 109 - Mr. Pikul •••••••••• MONDAY, JUNE 5 2:00·4:00 P.M. Latin 134 (The Aeneid: A Critical Approach) - HU 119 - Prof. Testroet English 154 (Special Studies in Shakespeare) - HU 110- Prof. Murphy Sociology 164 (Contemporary Sociological Theories) - SS 113- Prof. Gracey . o<JJ.Lo~!w! .••• Mathematics 12 (Calculus II) ,.i!_ .. •1 .. ;. ' , Sec. I- BH 201- Prof. Behan 1 'i· _, Sec. 2 - BH Z07 - Prof. Leschen ,L Mathematics 14 (Calculus Ill) Sec. I - BH 203- Prof. Stone Sec. 2 - BH 205 - Prof. Roulier Psychology 10 (A First Course in Psychology) Sec. 2- PY 213- Prof. Girdner Psychology 30 (Theory of Personality) Sec. J - SS 016- Prof. Graves Psychology 38 (Child Psychology) - PY 1Q2 - Prof. N.H. Walhek E. 12 (Systems, Computers, and Design - UI) Sec. 1 - SH 101 -Prof. Driscoll GAME CALLED: The Ratheskeller was jlooaect wun up to a foot of water, which necessitated evacuation procedures and called off eating and drinking exercises EROSION: The ground gave way in spots around Fox dormitory under the deluge of Tuesday's rain. The Book Store, library, and town of Schenectady· also succumbed to the ravages of Nature. for the night. t:~:i •. ~l ·sec. 4- Bl --.. E. 33 ~Tuid s~ Shanebrook KE. 33 (Appli1 Prof. Gaji;ar :•J tl ... ~eltU(Gree lGit~k t33 (Ae ·am 11~ - Pro ~~din 12 (La1 l:~roet Eteno.mics 142 L S'SO'ftit,- Mr. ~«i/nomics 1~ Econc}mics)- S~ •.. ,Epgli. 12 Vidarianand M< Englisb 144 (R· 1'£5, ~ P'lWf. Nien fllto~ 140 (F Wan$) ........ :SS 012 · !llis_toq; 166 (I ~~; ll;Z~ ProJ . Ftencf~: 134 (Tl !if); $e.c. 2- H(J Gernt&pJl2 (Ba Warde · Nosepby 11 ( ProJf.. Peterson - 1 · Sac:ioilf,m- 12 (I Nygatd Sbiisti.U 10 (In Sec~,2- BH · s.t.&~ 201 Staii5ties-),l ~ BH J ·Bi~oglf 13 (Bio ~ Prof~ Urban a Biology Si (Eco Chemistry 40 ( ( Prof. Schaefer 1 ·c;eoi~'gy 11 (Hi Zi.mmerma:n; - Mathematics 13 ~rof.,\:Fa.jj:child P~y.thoftltY 10 (. Sec. 3- PY l • • • • r·o(<..,, BREA1 • Buffalo topsoil.

CONCORDIENSIS, Wednesday, ;tfay 17, 1972- • HIGH TIDE: in Jackson's Gardens came at 3:05p.m. yesterday afternoon. RIVERBOAT CAPTAIN: Riv Viera casts glance downstream . • SCHEDULE SPRING TERM, 1 97·2 ~'~c:' 2 ~ SH 106- Prof, Craig S.ec:. 3 - BH 102 - Prof. Aubrey · Sec. 4 - BH 104 _:_Prof. Ha.ag , E. 33 ~Juid Systems Analysis)}-t+- SH 110 ~ Prof. Shanebroak E.E. 33 (Appfied BledUonic Devices) - SH WO - Prof. Gajj;ar · :·l (l ·····-····· ·TUESDAY, JUNE 6 9:00-11:00 A.M. ~el; 12 {Greek Reading) -· HU 119 - P,rof. Reece !Giteek ll33 (Aeschylus, Sophocles and Euripides) - ·am 11;. - Prof. Testroet , li..lltin 112 (Latin Reading) ::_ HU ll3 - Prof. t~roet . E~no.mics 142 (Macroeconomic Theory and Policy) L S'$0~- Mr. Kershner !EC .. ·• · u/no.mics 151 (Resource and Environr:tental Ecojlc)miCs)- SS 115 ~Prof. Me Namara ... ]~pgJiljlt 12 (The English Literary Tradition: Victariam:and Modern)- HU 114- Prof. Murphy Englisb 144 (Repr~entative English Dramas) - HU HS: ~ P'POf. Niemeyer flilto~ 140 (Fascism and Socialism Between Two War,$) ........ :S:S 012 - Prof. Hansen !llistol'l! 166 (Latin America and the United States) ~ ~-1 liZ- Prof. Bristol · Ftencf~: 134 (The -French Language in Practical Use I.E): . &.<;. 2- HtJ 112 - Prof. Thomas . Gum~ 12 (Basic German III) - HU 116 - Prof. Waa:de . · Nosopby 11 (Philosophical Classics) - HU 117 - Pruf.. Pe~on - 1 · Sudoff;gy, 12 (Human Society II)- SS 110- Prof, Ny~ S'falistiies 10 (Introduction) , &:~a- Bll 205 - Mr .. Lackey StUn~ 201 (IntroductiOn to Probability and Sta:ti!Sties-)J ~ BH 108 - Prof. Bick . -Billllog:w 1!3 (Biology of Plants- Core II) - SS 014 ~ Prof~ Urban and T obiessen · · · BrologySi (Ecology)- BH 312- Prof. George Chemistry 40 (Quantitative Chemistry) - BU 204- Pro£. Schaefer 1 \Geol~y l1 (Historical Geology) - BU l09 ~ Prof. Zimm:ermaoi:t · - MAttltematics 130 (Complex Analysis)- BH 104 - ~rof.,\)'' a.jj:child P's~thology 10 (A First Course in Psychology) Sec. 3- PY 102- Prof. Weitz BREATHER: · John \The • Buffalo\ iJatche/t;ler claps topsoil from his hands at mid~· river waystation . •• E. 29 (Introductory System Theory) ~ SH llO - Prof. Goodheart E.E. 148 (Digital Circuits) - SH 100 - Prof. Hoffman ••••••••••• tUESDAY, JUNE 6 2:00..4:00 P.M. Comp. Ed. 11 (Freshman Commons in Science and Engineering) Sec. 2 (Introduction to Computer Programming) - SH 110 - Prof. Craig Sec. 14 - (Introduction to · Contemporary Mathematics)- BH 201- Prof. Loughlin Comp E·d. 26 (The Nature and ·Functions of Law) - SS 016- Prof. N. Allen Comp. Ed. 29 {East Asian Ideas and Ideologies) - AB 202 - Prof. Thurston Comp. Ed. 59 (Sound and Music) - BU 204 - Prof. Driscoll Comp. Ed. 66 (Sex and Sexuality) - BH 207 ~ Prof. Lambert Economics 10 (Elementary Economics, Part I) Sec . .2- SS 115- Mr, Hoiska · German 60 (Goethe and His Legacy) - HU 115 - Prof. Warde Russian 12 (Basic Russian III) - HtJ 110 - Prof. Weston Mathematics 100 (Orthogonal Functions and Boundary Values)- BH 108- Prof. Tornga Mathematics 101 (Advanced Calculus for Engineers) - BH 203 - Prof. Leschen Psychology 10 (A First Course in Psychology) Sec. 4 - PY 102 - Prqf. Berthold I.A. 152 (Fundamentals of Behavioral Science II) - BH 104 - Prof. Griesinger •••••••••• WEDNESDAY, JUNE 7 9:00-11:00 A.M. Comp. Ed. 34 (Pmpaganda and Public Opinion) - SS 016- Mr. P. Johnson Comp. Ed. 86, (Law in a Democratic Society) - SS 113- Prof. Anderson Music 135 (Music in the 20th Century)- AB 101 - Prof. Parks Economics 140 (Labor Economics) - SS 112 - Mr. Cipriani History 187 (Modern Jewish History) - SS 115 - Prof. Berk ' French 146 (Entre Les Deux Guerres)- HU 119 - Prof. Roberts BANZAI! In this rare and faded photograph taken by an innocent bystander, we see the now legendary Ed Kanowitz heading west in his rqft. In search of the perfect wave, Kanowitz rode the Pipeline down to Seward Place. Spanish 143 (The Contemporary Spanish Novel) H U 116 - Mrs. Astiz Sociology 10 (Human Society I) -- SS 117 -- Mr. Katona Chemistry 12 (Fundamental Chemistry II) Sec. I~ BU 204- Prof. Maycock Sec. 2- BU 204- Prof. Werner Mathematics 10 (Calculus I) Sec.·l- BH 108- Prof. Tornga Sec. 2 - BH 106 -- Prof. Leach . Physics 11 (Mechanics)- BH 207- Prof. Jones Physics l3 (Electric and Magnetic Effects and Optics) ~ BH 20 I - Prof. Hooverman Psychology 60 (Colloquium I) - PY 113 - Prof. Pearce C.E. 106 (Environmental Engineering II) - BU 109 - Prof. Sykes •••••••••• WEDNESDAY, JUNE 7 2:00-4:00 P.M. Economics 11 (Elementary Economics, Part II) Sec. 2- SS 117- Mr. Peno Chinese 12 (Basic Chinese III) - HU 119 - Prof. Woo · Chinese 132 (Modern Chinese Ill) -- HU 119 Prof. Woo Chinese 142 (Modern Expository Chinese lll) HU 119- Prof. Woo French 62 (Intellectual Trends in Twentieth-Century France)- HU 114- Prof. Thomas German 143 (German Naturalism and Modern Literature)- HU 116- Mr. Elfe Philosophy 63 (Philosophy of Literature) -- H U 117 - Prof. Peterson Political Science 10 (Comparative Political Analysis) - SS 112- Prof. Board Mathematics 31 (Linear Algebra) - BH 201 Prof. Stone Physics 11 (Mechanics) (For Biology, Science and Center I Students) - BH 207 - Prof. Wylen Physics l3 (Electric and Magnetic Effects and Optics) (For Biology, Science and Center I Students) -- BU 204- Prof. Schick Physics 22 (Electronic Circuits) - NW 116 Lewis Prof. Physics 134 (Physical Optics) -- NW 222 - Prof. .C. Swartz E. 24 (Electric and Magnetic Circuits) - SS 115 Prof. Ingvarsson C.E. 41 (Legal Aspects of Engineering) -- BU 109 -- Prof. Harlow M.E. 40 (Engineering Design and Project Planning) - SH 101 -Prof. Eisenstadt STAMPEDE: Buffalo Batchelder catches up on a little roadwork 5

• • • CONCORDIENSIS, Wednesday, May 17, 1972 ..---~~-~ ,.,. . ~:1\'-\'<-· .....,.,. ,-. c. '<®rm~: HIGH TIDE: in Jackson's Gardens came at 3:05p.m. yesterday afternoon. RIVERBOAT CAPTAIN: Riv Viera casts glance downsrream . • SCHEDULE SPRING TERM, 1972 ~· c:'l2 - SH 106- Prof. Craig Sec. 3 - BH 102- Prof. Aubrey Sec. 4 - BH 104- Prof. Haag E. 33 ~Fluid Systems Analysis) - SH IIO - Prof. Shanebrook E.E. 33 (Applied Electronic Devices) - SH 100 -- Prof. Gajj.ar .. •••••••••• TUESDAY, JUNE 6 9:00-11:00 A.M. Greek 12 (Greek Reading)- HU 119- Prof. Reece Gr.eek 133 (Aeschylus, Sophocles and Euripides) - HU II Jj. - Prof. T estroet Latin 12 (Latin Reading) - H U 113 - Prof. Tes:troet Economics 142 (Macroeconomic Theory and Policy) - SS 01\J- Mr. Kershner Ecc/nomics lSI (Resource and Environmental Economics)- SS I 15- Prof. Me Namara Engli$ 12 (The English Literary Tradition: Victorian and Modern)- HU 114- Prof. Murphy English: 144 (Representative English Dramas) - HU 115 - Prof. Niemeyer Hit-!tott; 140 (Fascism and Socialism Between Two Wars}-- SS 012- Prof. Hansen History 166 (Latin America and the United States) - ~,f; 112'- Prof. Bristol Frencf1 134 (The -French Language in Practical Use II) Sec. 2- HU 112- Prof. Thomas Germ~ l2 (Basic German HI)- HU 116 - Prof. WaFd:e Philosophy ll (Philosophical Classics) - HU 117 - Prof. Peterson Socio!'PJgy 12 (Human Society II) - SS 110- Prof. Nygard Sbtistics 10 (Introduction) Sec-;l- BH 205- Mr. Lackey Statistics 201 (Introduction to Probability and Statistics) - BH 108 -Prof. Bick Bie~logy 13 (Biology of Plants - Core II) - SS 014 - Profs• Urban and Tobiessen Biology 51 (Ecology)- BH 312- Prof. George Chemistry 40 (Quantitative Chemistry) - BU 204- Prof. Schaefer Geol&\y 11 (Historical Geology) - BU 109- Prof. Zimmerman Mathematics 130 (Complex Analysis) -- BH 104 - Prof. Faj'child Ps)'chology 10 (A First Course in Psychology) Sec. 3 - PY 102- Prof. Weitz • • • • BREATHER: John ''The • Buffalo\ Batchelder claps topsoilfrom his hands at mhf~ river waystation. E. 29 (Introductory System Theory) SH 110 Prof. Goodheart E.E. 148 (Digital Circuits) SH 100 Prof. Hoffman •••••••••• TUESDAY, JUNE 6 2:00-4:00 P.M. Comp. Ed. 11 (Freshman Commons in Science and Engineering) Sec. 2 (Introduction to Computer Programming)- SH 110- Prof. Craig Sec. !4 - (Introduction to Contemporary Mathematics) - BH 20 I - Prof. Loughlin Comp Ed. 26 (The Nature and Functions of Law) - SS 016- Prof. N. Allen Comp. Ed. 29 (East Asian Ideas and Ideologies) -- AB 202 - Prof. Thurston Comp. Ed. 59 (Sound and Music) BU 204 Prof. Driscoll Comp. Ed. 66 (Sex and Sexuality) BH 207 Prof. Lambert Economics 10 (Elementary Economics, Part I) Sec. 2- SS 115- Mr. Hoiska German 60 (Goethe and His Legacy) -- HU 115 - Prof. Warde Russian 12 (Basic Russian Ill) - HU 110 -- Prof. Weston Mathematics 100 (Orthogonal Functions and Boundary Values)- BH 108- Prof. Tornga Mathematics 101 (Advanced Calculus for Engineers) - BH 203 - Prof. Leschen Psychology 10 (A First Course in Psychology) Sec. 4 - PY 102 - PrQf. Berthold I.A. 152 (Fundamentals of Behavioral Science II) - BH 104- Prof. Griesinger •••••••••• WEDNESDAY, JUNE 7 9:00-11:00 A.M. Comp. Ed. 34 (Propaganda and Public Opinion) - SS 016- Mr. P. Johnson Comp. Ed. 86 (Law in a Democratic Society) -- SS 113 - Prof. Anderson Music 135 (Music in the 20th Century)-- AB 101 Prof. Parks Economics 140 (Labor Economics)- SS 112 -- Mr. Cipriani History 187 (Modern Jewish History) -- SS 115 - Prof. Berk French 146 (Entre Les Deux Guerres) - HU 119 Prof. Roberts BANZAI! In this rare am/faded photograph taken h1 an innocent hy.stander, lt'e see the no~-t· legendan f:'d Kanowit:: heading ~t:est in his ra/i. In 1earch ol rhe pe~lect lt'O\'e, Kanowit:: rode the Pipeline dm\'11 ro Seward Place. Spanish 143 (The Contemporary Spanish \mel) HU 116 -- Mrs. Asti1 Seciology 10 (Human Society I) SS 117 Mr. Katona Chemistry 12 (Fundamental Chemistry II) Sec. I - BU 204 Prof. Maycock Sec. 2 -- BU 204 Prof. Werner Mathematics 10 (Calculus I) Sec. I -- BH lOX Prof. Tornga Sec. 2 - RH 106 Prof. Leach Physics ll (Mechanics) - RH 207 Prof. Jones Physics l3 (Electric and Magnetic Effects and Optics) - BH 20 I - Prof. Hooverman Psychology 60 (Colloquium 1) PY I IJ Prof. Pearce C.E. 106 (Environmental Engineering II) Bl! 10~ -- Prof. Sykes •••••••••• WEDNESDAY, JUNE 7 2:00-4:00 P.M. Economics 11 (Elementary Economics. Part II) Sec. 2- SS 117 -~ Mr. Peno Chinese 12 (Basic Chinese Ill) Hll 119 Prof. Woo · Chinese 132 (Modern Chinese III) HlJ 119 Prof. Woo Chinese 142 (Modern Expository Chinese III) HU 119 -- Prof. Woo French 62 (Intellectual Trends in Twentieth-Centur) France) - HU 114 - Prof. Thomas German 143 (German Naturalism and Modern Literature)~- HU 116 Mr. Elfe Philosophy 63 (Philosophy of Literature) H U I 17 -- Prof. Peterson Political Science 10 (Comparative Political Analysis) - SS 112 - Prof. Board Mathematics 31 (Linear Algebra) BH 20 l Prof. Stone Physics ll (Mechanics) (For Biology. Science and Center I Students) - BH 207 Prof. Wylen Physics 13 (Electric and Magnetic Effect~ and Optics) (For Biology, Science and Center I Studenh) - · BU 204 - Prof. Schick Physics 22 (Electronic Circuits) \ W 116 Pro!. Lewis Physics 134 (Physical Optics) \W 222 Prot .C. Swart1 E. 24 (Electric and Magnetic Circuits) SS 115 Prof. I ngvarsson C.E. 41 (Legal Aspects ot Engineering) Bl! 109 Prof. Harlow M.E. 40 (Engineering Design and Project PlanmngJ - SH 101 Prof. Eisenstadt STAMPEDE: Bu!ta/,1 Batchelder caTches up on a little roadwork 5

4 BENCHED: Beach hur Bill .\'un1on /uok1 fin· a Koud tu ride amid rhe .1/wuring rapids. CONCORDJENSIS, Wednesday, May 17, 1972 photo by Les Kernam ;.--'\'~~ ,' t ~ .. ,U}< - ~i. .. ~ HANG FIVE: Daredevil · -~imsun di!:>plays practised ·' bench-riding artistry. • - :, ~ • •• \' •• • SINK OR SWIM: EXAMINATION SC Fxammatiom \\ill he held in the assigned rooms. l.i~tcd he low Is the code of the huilding~ to he u~ed. AR Arts Building BH - Bailey Hall Bl' - Butterfield Hall Hll - Humanities Building NW - Science-Engineering Center (North Wing) OC - Old Chapel PY - Psychology Laboratory SS - Social Sciences Building SH - Steinmetz Hall SATVRDAY, Jt:NE 3 9:00-11:00 A.M. Economics I 0 (Elementary Economics, Part I) Sec. I SS 117 Prof. J. E. Smith Economics 133 ( Puolic Policy and the American Economv) SS 112 Prof. Herman English 166 ( M odcrn English Fiction) SS 016 Prof. N iemcy~:r History 15 (Modern America: T'hc :-.lew Deal and After) SS I I 5 Prof. Jonas History 153 (English Society Since 1760) SS 113 Prof. hnkdstcin French 12 (Rasie French Ill) HlJ 116 Prof. rho mas French U4 (The !·rench Language in Practical Use II) S~:c. l Hl: 016 Prof. LeClerc Spanish 12 (Basic Spanish Ill) Hll 112 Mrs. Astit Philosophy 21 (Symholic Logic) HlJ 115 Prof. I. udwig Accounting 10 (Accounting Principles) OC Mr. Malik. Mr. Roy Biology 12 (!he Cdl Core II) Hlf 204 Prof. l.amhert Biology 159 (Plant Physiology) SH 100 Prof. Bin:da Biology 160 (Functional Hi!itology and Organology) AH 202 Prot. Roth Mathematics 30 (Ordinary Differential Equiltions) Sec. I BH 104 Prot. Fairchild Sec. 2 H H 20 I Prof. Sci ken Mathematics 33 !Ahstract Algehra II) HH 106 Prof. Loughlin Physics 14 (Elements of Modern Physics) SH 110 Prot. Pilcher J<:.E. 144 (Prmctpb of Communication Systems) SH !On Prlll. Galantowiu •••••••••• '·~· .. ~~~:\ .<-{ll • ' ... ·~. SATURDAY, JUNE 3 2:00-4:00 P.M. Comp. Ed. It (Freshman Commons in Science anp Engineering) Sec. 17 (Experimental Approach to Structural Behavior)- BU 109- Mr. Pikul Comp. Ed. 80 (Individual Liberty and Socml Order: Areas of Conflict) -- SS 113 - Prof. N. Allen Economics 11 (Elementary Economics, Part II) Sec. I·-- SS 117- Mr. Kershner Economics 131 (Microeconomic Analysis)-- SS 014 Mr. Peno Economics 149 (Contemporary Economic Issues) - H U 110 -· Prof. Herman History 159 (The Soviet Period) - SS 115 - Prof. Berk Hebrew 12 (Basic Hebrew Ill) - HU 119 - Mr. Welkovics Sociology 38 (Sociology of Deviant Behavior) - HU 116- Prof. Nygard Statistics 10 (Introduction) Sec, l - BH 106 - Mr. Hoiska Chemistry 134 (Organic Chemistry Ill)- SH 101 Prof. Martin Mathematics 127 (Numerical Analysis)- BH 102- Prof. Roulier Physics 136 (Classical Mechanics) - NW 222 - Prof. Wylen Psychology 30 (Theory of Personality) Sec. 2 - SS 016 - Prof. Graves Psychology 36 (The Psychology of Man-Machine Systems) - PY 113 - Prof. Berthold Psychology 50 (Educational Psychology) - PY I 02 · Prof. Girdner C.S. 12 (Fortran Programming) BU 204 - Profs. T. Schwarz, G. Williams C.S. 127 (Numerical Methods in Differential Equations) - BH 102- Prof. Roulier •••••••••• MONDAY, JUNE 5 9:00-11:00 A.M. Comp. Ed. II (Freshman Commons in Science and Engineering) Sec. 1 (Introduction to Computer Programming) - SH 110 - Prof. Zavisca C'omp. Ed. 40 (The Beginnings of Democracy) - SS 0 16 Prof. Reece Comp. Ed. 63 (Introduction to Astronomy) -- BH 207 Prof. Titus Economics 134 (Financial Analysis) - SS 117 Prof. Behrens . ' English 151 (Chaucer)- HU 110- Prof. Marphy French 130 (Readings in Contemporary French Literature)- HU 116- Prof. Roberts German 11 (Basic German II) - HU 117 -- Mr. Kruger Biology 36 (Invertebrate Zoology) -- BH 104 -- Prof. Dalgleish Biology 138 (Biology of Animal Parasites (Helminthology)·- BH 108- Prof. Styles Biology 140 (Biochemical and Molecular Genetics) - SS 115 - Prof. Butzel Chemistry 16 (Inorganic Chemistry I) - NW 116 - Prof. Festa Chemistry 152 (Physical Chemistry II) - SS 113 - Prof. J. Daniels Geology 51 (Oceanography) - BU 204 - Prof. Zimmerman Mathematics 18 (Introduction to Abstract Systems) Sec. I - BH 201 - Prof. Maddaus Sec. 2 - BH 102 - Prof. Behan Mathematics 134 (Differential Equations)- BH 106 - Prof. Leach Psychology 10 (A First Course in Psychology) Sec. I - PY 102- Prof. Huntley Psychology 20 (Statistical Methods in Psychology) - PY 113 - Prof. Berthold E. 20 (Mechanics) - SH 219- Prof. Panlilio C.E. 30 (Structures) - BU 109 - Mr. Piku1 •••••••••• MONDAY, JUNE 5 2:00-4:00 P.M. Latin 134 (The Aeneid: A Critical Appmach)- HU 119- Prof. Testroet English 154 (Special Studies in Shakespeare) - HU 110- Prof. Murphy Sociology 164 (Contemporary Sociological Theories) - SS 113 - Prof. Gracey Mathematics 12 (Calculus II) Sec. l - BH 201- Prof. Behan Sec. 2 - BH 207 - Prof. Leschen Mathematics 14 (Calculus III) Sec. I - BH 203 - Prof. Stone Sec. 2 - BH 205 - Prof. Roulier Psychology 10 (A First Course in Psychology) Sec. 2 - PY 213 - Prof. Girdner Psychology 30 (Theory of Personality) Sec. I - SS 016- Prof. Graves Psychology 38 (Child Psychology) - PY 102 Prof. N. H. Walbek E. 12 (Systems, Computers, and Design - III) Sec. I - SH 101 - Prof. Driscoll GA\1E CAttED: The Ratheskr:l!er 1ms .f!ooaea ~nrn llf! to a fool o/ \raler. 11 luch nen'.\\itatl'cl l'\'aczwtion I' rncedure.\ and called of( catinx and drink inr; exercises EROSION: The ground gm·e Hay in spots around Foy dormitory under the delu{?e c?f' Tuesday's rain. The Book Srore, lihrary, and town (~{ Schenectac(r also succumhed to the rm·ages o( Sature. for t hi' mglu. ~· c. 11 2 - 5 Sec. 3 - I Sec. 4 - I E. 33 .. Fluid 5 Shanebrook E.E. 33 (Appl Prof Gajjar (> .. Greek l2 ( Gre Gr.eek 133 (A HUII,_-Pn La.tin 12 (L~ Testroet Economics 14 - sso1t- M1 Ecc/nomics l Econc!mics) - S En:gli? 12 Victorian and M English: 144 (F liS -Prof. Nie Hit.~to•J 140 ( Wars}-- SS 012 History 166 ( - ~£ 112 - Pr< Frencf1 134 (1 II) Sec. 2- Hl Germ~ 12 (B Warde Philosophy 11 Prof. .Peterson Socio~gy 12 ( Nygard Statistie.s 10 (l1 Sec'i12- Bf Statistics 201 Statistics) ~ BH Biology 13 (Bi - Profs• Urban • Biology 51 (Ec Chemistry 40 ( Prof. Schaefer Geol~y II (H Zimmerman Mathematics I Prof. Fa¥-child Psychology 10 1 Sec. 3- PY • • • • BREA • Buffa!~ topsoi,

Wednesday, May 17, 1972 6 Lawrence nears 200th Union Nine Sweeps Weekend Bill YOU'RE OCT.': Boh Mitchell takes throw from catcher Skip LeJ<a to nail Hohart's would-he hase- .1'/ea/er. 3- Way A.L. Deadlock As Fiji Upsets DPhi by STICK MANUS While whitewater (or \bro~A- n\\ater'\) oody-surfi ng seems h~ have taken over as the Number One Athletic Pursuit on campU!i, the softhall season marches steadily toward a conclusion. This past week's play truly reflected the tightness of competition. especially Ill the American League. !he games which were postponed stand little chance ol heing rescheduled except for those which have a direct bearing on the final standings. due to the late start of the Independent League. It is indeed a shame hat the students of this school who are interested in \friendly strife\ have nowhere to go. Fiji Looks Strong On Wednesday. May 10. the rains subsided for what seemed like the first time in eight days. The sun stayed out long enough for Sigma Chi to romp over Phi Sigma Kappa. X-3. keeping their playoff hopes alive. On that same day. Fiji rebounded from their first loss to hand Theta Delt a 14- 11 loss. This loss eliminated Theta Delt from the list of championship hopefuls and brought about Thursday's Fiji-D Phi showdown. Unlike many other highly- touted spectactulars. this clash of g.iants lived up to its hilling. In the end. Fiji emerged a 7-5 victor in 10 innings, throwing the American League race into a three-way deadlock. The crowd at South Library Field saw the lead change hands three times as tiji's Paul Kabb and D Phi's Barry Kraft battled down to the wire. In the end, D Phi was betrayed by its usually airtight defense, which misplayed two fly balls in the final inning to set up Fiji's final two tallies. Meanwhile; Fiji's 'defense refused·· to allow D Phi its usual \big inning\ and gave Kahh fine support. Faculty Wins One The final contest in the American League saw the Faculty capture their first win with a 13-4 drubbing of Phi Sigma Kappa. It has certainly been an uphill fight for the Faculty hut they deserve a lot of credit for this crowning victory. In the National League Psi lJ and the Independents remained the only two unbeaten teams, although there were some anxious moments, as Psi lJ squeaked by D Chi 8-7. The loss was only the second for the D Chi outfit which refused to quit and scored four runs i~ the final stama before capitulating. Thus there remain· five. teams in the playoff picture. The scheduling of remaining games affecting these teams has not yet been determined. American League D Phi Fiji Sig Chi Theta Delt DU Phi Sig Phi Delt Faculty 4-1 .800 4-1 .800 4-l .800 3-2 .600 1-2 .333 2 1-3 .250 2Y2 1-4 .200 3 1-5 .167 3Y:! Those people that have completed this year's NAUI Scuba Course will have their final water checkout dive on Sunday May 21st at Lake George. The pool will be open for practice on Thursday the 18th from 1:30 to 3:30 p.m. Directions will be given at that time, or contact Coach McMurray in the Athletic Dept. by BILL KILLEN With twq more crushing victories under their belt over Parent's Weekend running their record to 9-2. l'nion's hasehall team need~ JU~t two more Win). t;o give Coach Art I awrence an amallnt: 200 career \Ktorie-, in 33 years of coachmg. Aller downmg Hohart 9-4 last 1-riday and King's Point 11-0 on Saturdav. the Dutchmen set their sights on vi~itin!! Middlehury toda\·. and then rl;n a 'home and home '-t'flt'' ~~ rt.h R 1'1 l-rrcb1 and S;tltlld.tl I he· '-.tltnd.tl !.';1111•: \I til ;,,. !'l.t\c·d il• ,,, . .t! \ic·\;t.flt!c·r I rc·lcl I .til l,'lh\ ,ll,•t!kl .dlltt>,[ hl' ,·,·rt.tlll I·· L'.ci:l '11:!1 'tilltit llill ~~' !\\11 td th·· L1'! t'tlfct· .!.2.!fll~· .... d'll' 111 thL· .,tiL'.t llhl'rc· th<' Cr;trnel ·h.tlc· \c·[ I<> J·,,\. !hi' \r:;tr luttliL·r. Rl'l ,IJt>ttld 'lll'l'lltllh l'~l\!1\ :l' !hl·~· \'l'~!'dlfl f'L'i,.'il!d Uh . .:luJc::, lu:,~c:~ lu >> t:ak Stt:na auJ Hobart, teams Union handily defeated. Two Laugbers Both games over the weekend were distressingly -;imilar in that they were decided long bt . ore the contest was ove . but it was awesome to watch a hitting attack that Dick Allen himself would have enjoyed. King's Point found themselves four runs down after the first six Unio'n hatters had reached base. Ron Westbrook's two run single was the big hit. Westbrook,after getting beaned in the second, blasted a homerun up on the hill in left center in opening the three run sixth that put the finishing touches on the Mariners. Bob Mitchell evened his record at 2-2 as he allowed only 5 hits and walked none, in going the distance. His fellow moundsman Joe Urschel also went the route against Hobart in picking up his sixth win in as many decisions. Urchel was again hardly overpowering in yielding 10 hits and fanning but four men, but when a team behind you scores nine runs and plays exeeUent defense it is tough to lose. Play by the Rules Regardless, ·Urschel's main attribute of fine control was AND SO ARE YOU!: Bob Bernhardt applies tag to . another cut-down Hobart baserunner. again with him all the way and he actually should have only been touched for two· runs. Hobart's Frank Carey was handed a two-run homer in the ninth inning on a hit that rolled up the hill and through the fence in left field. and should therefore have been onfy a ground-rule double. Coach Lawrence, howeve.r, apparently forgot to go over the ground rules before the game and with a big lead was content without protest to let Carey circle the bases. Stars were abundant in both contests as they have been all year. Besides those already mentioned, Bob Bernhardt scored three runs and stole three bases and Skip Lega knocked home three runs against King's Poi_nt. Mitchell smashed two triples, a single and a sacrifice fly and Gene Quirk had two hits and two stolen . bases against Hobart. Leading hitter Rick Arons was four for eight over the weekend. ' Despite their amazing sueeess in losing only to Pace and Cla·rk, the Dutchmen's tourney outlook appears to be doomed to the same fate as their basketball couterpart. VARSITY SPORTS SCHEDULE May 17- May 24 BASEBALL: Today, May 17 at Middlebury Friday, May 19 at RPI ;\. ,- '!·.o Sat., May 20 RPI, H, (2}t':.W.) LAGffr~.SSE . Today, Ma,y; tl~t Syl;'acusf; Sat.;.May 20; ¥,~1, H, (2p,.m.) GOLF Friday, May 19 at RPI leading hitter on squad went 4--8 ov-er n-'eekend. · · · - ' ' · > .t ) •) :1. ·J '.) '· 'l' t'' t· '.l ! (j ( \ ] ·s· tl E \1 tl \1 * F a s * < .. * c: .. * ' ~ * I r * ( I - El: 16: (~ (S

• ) 'J CONCORDJENSIS, Wednesday, May 17, 1972 7 R.P.l. Beaten, ~ Nette.rs 4-6 Cross, Sandy Combine for 8 Goals As Lacrosse Brushes Colgate~ 11-3 by JIM SM'ITH At the beginning of this season, the Union College tennis team looked like a sure bet to be. the first tennis team in over a decade to end the season with a winning record. Coach Gary Walters, aided by former Junior . Davis Cup competitor Bud Ornston, had a fine group of returning veterans, headed by co- captain Marty Cukierman, and his doubles p11rtner Stu Fishier. in addition, freshman Kevin Crawford showed fine promise .of becoming an excellent player. The netters headed into last weekend with a 3-5 season and one last chance to break even. They won the RPI meet by default, as the engineers refused to show. The Dutchmen's final hopes went down the drain on Saturday, as the netters were defeated by Hatpur, 6-3. Once again Freddy Kaplan was the sole winner in singles play, ending the sea~~m as l!nion's winnin.gest netter. St·U and Marty won their doubles match, along with Jim S'kiff CJ.nd Steve Wayne. The Garnet were scheduled to meet the lndiaris of Siena thi~ afternoon, but there . was some doubt that the Siena Racket me'n would show up. MOISHE!: Mike Peng loomed awesome and spelled disas,ter for Colgate attackers. Ricks Vaults To Record Height; Union's undefeated track team G · F • • h 4 h I s approached last Saturday's New . arnet . IDIS . t· n tate .York State Championships with · · · . · · · · an air of cautious confidence. Coming off a relatively easy victory over Rochester, considered to be one of the prime contenders, the Dutchmen knew that they had more than a good chance to change their second place \habit.\ Last year, under coach Ron Colel)lan, the Garnet were runners up' in the indoor and outdoor state meets, as well as· last fall's cross country championships. Fate was not kind however, as the Dutchmen were able to score no more than 24 points, slipping to fourth place among the 16 teams competing. Colgate captured the State Champs' title, avenging • Jheir close loss to Cortl~.n,~~; 'in t~ indoor state meet. · Union's 24 pltints came on the ·strength of th.te,~} f~rst places in the field events,' ·a:w by freshmen. Bill Mowery Wort the shot put with a sub-par 48'8\ toss, while the triple jump fell to Pete Walrath ', with a leap of 45'9'' MCAT-DAT-GRE LSAT-ATGSB NAT'L. BDS. * Preparation tor tests .r'equ ired for admission to graduate and profes- sional schools * Six and twelve session courses * Small groups * Voluminous material for home study prepared by experts in each field * Lesson schedule can be tailored to meet individual needs. * Opportunity for review of past lessons via tape at the center Summer Sessions Special Compact Courses Weekends -lntersessions Tim McCabe ran a blistering 1:56.3 half-mile to capture fourth place in the state meet. Meanwhile Dave Ricks, the luck , since they were robbed of Baron, was pushed to a record the services of the most prolific breaking performance before scorer in Union history, .Carlos getting his pole\ vault victory. Jaszczak, as well as three other Dave decisively bettered Gray big guns, Dave White, Tracy Watkins' Union College record, Rich, and Buzz-Bang Jim soaring over 13'11 Y-1\. Backstrom. McCabe 1:56.3 Lame Game Jerry Cuffey long jumped Ric}S, who has been scoring at 20 'll\ for third place. Union's a pace of 20 points a meet, pulled scoring was rounded out by Tim up lame: in the trials of the 440 McCabe, fourth in the 880 yd. yd. dash, still taking second in run . with a I :56.3 effort, and his heat. Dave White replaced Mike Rich, fifth in the high jump Jaszczak in the 440 yd. relay at 6'2\. Mike was the only senior event, and was leading the pack point scorer for Union, and he when he too pulled a muscle, all will be back -neXt year,. since he is but ending Union's hopes for a five year student with one year victory. Another sprinter, Tracy of eligibility left. Rich, was hampered by a slight The Dutchmen had good cause pull, while Buzzy, a javelin to feel particularly cheated by thrower, injured his elbow in the 1r~~~~~i~ ~~ p··· .· .. t p ~ ~ . · e · er .· aus:e ~ STANLEY H. KAPLAN ~ . ~ EoucATIONALcENTI!Ruo .. ~ Restaurant ·~ 1675 East 16th'.Stroet Brooklyn, N. V · ~ ! .9\- . . ~ I RPI dual meet and was unable to throw. Jaszczak and White alone, all but guaranteed Union firsts in the 440 and 220 yd. dashes and the 440 and mile relays and a probable second in the 440. Those 28 points would have given Union a total of 52, enough to win the meet. Another Record Ricks was the fourth Union trackman to break a Union record this year, and the fourth freshman. He was preceded bv slamas Johnson, holder of th~ 9:36.1 two mile· record since February 5, Bill Mowery, who heaved the shot 50'8\ against Trinity on April 19, and Pete Walrath, who triple jumped 46'3\ against RPI. They are joined by four upperclass record holders, all of whom will be back next year. Tim McCabe holds the 440 yd. intermediate hurdle record of 57.7 as well as the 880 yd. run record of l :53.1. Rich Jas1czak has run the 440 in 48.1 seconds, while Mike Rich has cleared 6'6W' in the high jump. (In fact, Mike cleared 6'10\ while in Europe last spring.) Coach Michelsen, who has never coached an undefeated team before, said that he was very happy with the team's 7-0 record, and that he could not be disappointed with the performances· on Saturday, though he was of course disappointed that we did not win. A few Union runners who hope to qualify for the IC4A or NCAA National championships, will travel to Colgate this Saturday for another chance to meet the qualification standards. SPECIAL DISCOUNT To Union Students GEORGE'S MUSIC STORE 509 State Street by JOEL ROSLYN Friday was a beautiful day in Schenectady. The sun was out (for a change),. and the Garnet LaXmen destroyed the Colgate stickmen by a score of ll-3. A large crowd came out to catc.h the rays, and they were treated to a show by Barry Gross and Mark Sanderson. The 2 senio-rs combined for a total of II points in leading the Dutchmen to their fourth victory of the year aga·inst 5setbacks. 5 .. G's\! The game was never really in douht. as the Garnet kd at half- time hy ·a 7-2 margin.. Harry Gross, wh(.\ is closing out his fine career in st) k, seored the fint ~ goals of the game. Barr) t inishcd the game in the same manner, \lith the fina:l 2 goals-he finished the afternoon ~ith 5 \G\\. Sandy. the team's leading s~:mer showed his \l'rsatilit) h) scoring Jgoab and assi~ting nn .1 other-... Harr\ \(larho'\ (l,trah,·J 1an. Drnn1-. \\'alkLT ;~nd l'ck \!1lk·r ai::L'tlllfl(l'd 1\ll thL• 1 tllht.•J (i,llllL'I ~l:l) J:l''o. I ht.· 'I >utdun~.·n nllddtt.'' ktd \ f1111 . .' al·tnnwnt ·\II thrL·,· lint.'\ rn~uk l;tlu;thk L·ulttllhtlll•llh ''' the \Ill. I ht.'\ thd <t. llllL' lllh td contain1n!! th,· Ked Ka1Ja-. up anJ do\\11 thl· lil.'id. and \\L'IL' quick to pick up most ol the loose balls. Battle of Goalies Many of the Garnet players felt that the Colgate goalie was one of the finest they've played against. He made some fine saves but unfortunately for him, his dt>fense was like a sieve. At the other side of the field, B-More was superb. His job was made much easier by the spirited play of .. Moishe\ Peng. There was a lot of hard hitting and the Garnet defensemen made several Colgate men sorry that they ever suited up. The best thing about a game like this one, is that everybody gets to play. Some of the younger players made the most of their playing time. Sophomore Kevan Norris gave the fans something to cheer about with his hard- nosed style of play. Seniors Bow Out There are now only 2 games remammg lor this year's campaign. The LaXmen journey to Syracuse Wednesday, and then return for their season finale against RPI at Daley Field on Satmday. It's only fitting that the seni-ors wind up their ca~eers against the \men\ from Troy. Tom Reif, Ed Young, Mike Peng, Bob Erlandson (B-More), Rein Eichinger, Barry Gross, and Garry Drummond will be wearing the Garnet for the last time on Saturday afternoon. For • co-captain Mark Sanderson, it's the end of a brilliant career. The Syracuse product had started for 3 years and has provided a lot of thrills for folks around here. The whole team has earned my respect and admiration there's only one way to show them how you feel. BE THERE ON SATURDAY!!! The first day of the intramural track ·.,ret was held today, and tbe second day will be held tomorrow (Thursday) at 4:30 p.m. on Alexander Field. .Heck's Travel Bweau Inc. No Service Charge • 2 Locations DOWNTOWN 149 Barrett St., Ph. 346-3431 MOHAWK MALL Ph. 370-0824 Gn by Heck and leave the resi '\us. (212) 236-5300 ::t 11;1. . . ;· .. j FOR LIQUOR&: WINE r (516) 538-4555 ~ 535 Nott ·St'-'eet ~ SINCE· 1938, . • ..... ·~ DAVS, EVENINGS, WEEKENDS Try JAKE LIPSTEIN'S 464 State Street .. FR4·1888 .. ' .. .. ' . 1 j

8 CONCORDIENSIS, Wednesday, M~y 17, 1972 BLITHER :~:~:ZJ;:~:~:l[~¥:~!~, ·. Carnival Weeke.nd Linebacker. the Union College m Old Chapel, as previously The Soctal Committee would · · Course Evaluation, wishes to announced. like to announce plans and •(sppecific times to be announced point out that the ratings given * * * * activities for Carnival Weekend later); Scavenger Hunt - team for ART-030 (Cal.! # 1230-0l) There will be a meeting of the beginning this Thursday, May of four; Roller Derby- team ·of \Color -- Painting H\ ar,e Christian Scientists on campus 18, and running through Sunday, four, one pair of roller skates incorrect. We apologize for this next Tuesday at 7:00 p.m. in May 21. Unless specified, all per tea~ and please bring any error, but must point out that it Humanities 015. The topic is activiities are FREE! extra pa1rs; Beer Chugging Relay was out of our hands. The class communication. Everyone is Thursday: 8 p.m. - Modern -team of ten (minimal entrance was given the wrong welcometoattend. Dance Workshop, Nott feeforbeer).Prizeswillbegiven. yuestionnairc. We will not * * * * Memorial; 7, 9, II p.m. ~ 2 p.m. - 1950's concert and attempt to print the correct The International Relations Woody Allen's movie \take the dance contest, \The Shittons\ (if answers here but please note that Club will hold a meeting on Money and Run,\ SS ·016, $1.00. rain, Field House); S-'6 p.m. - •the instructor rating should have :rhursday, May '18, at 4:30 p.m. Friday: 8 p.m. - Modern Saga Buffet and Bar-B-Q on be~n closer to 75% than the 25% m SS '112 for the purpose of Dance, Nott Memorial; 8 p.m. - West College Field (1neai cards prmted. Students should check to electing officers for next year. AU The Coffee House .presents Fred honored). make sure they fill out the st Hdents with previous and Pam Sang and Bob During the afternoon, the correct questionnaire ·- NO participation in club activities are Bernhardt, Hale House· Interfraternity Council will sell ARTCOURSEISALAB. urged toattend. ··' beer, proceeds ef which will be * * * *· * * * * All seniors are invited to dona,ted to.the Cancer Research The entries in the PY.E-U. Any group who would like to imbibe in a contest of· alcoholic ·Folksinger Patrick Sky Fund. There will also be a bake Coli. Photo Society sponsor an activity on Sunday of endurance(not skill) this Friday, sale for the same benefit, with Environmentaal Photography Carnival Weekend is asked to May 19, in the Chi Psi Lodge, Midnight - Horror movie and b~ked go<:>ds being donated by Contest are not on display in the contact either Jill ManniQg, 377- at 3:30 in the afternoon .. To the cartoons, \Invasion- of the Body- girls at Umon. Library Music Room. Over 30 4994 or Barb Sherman, 370-3601. victor (survivor) of this beer snatcbets,\ outdoors at Library Sign-ups for the contests P!ints were received in the * * * * drinking maratho,n, the Plaaz!L(ifrain,Sundayat9p.m.). requiring teams sho\lld be made categories \Beauty of Nature\ The I.E.E.E. will sponsor a honora,ble title of the Class Saturday: 8 p.rn. ~ Modern at the Student Activities Office and \The Ravaged Earth.\ The lecture en tit led \Systems Keeper of the Jug shall be Dance, Nott Memorial; 10 p.in. by Friday. judging will take place later this Dynamics: An Evaluation\ on bestowed, as well as all rights - Folk concert on Library Field All are welcome. Anyone, or week, winners will be notified on Tuesday, May 23, in the old and privileges thereof. Formal with Patrick Sky (if rain, any group, Who has any ideas for Friday, May 19. PYE and the Chern lecture room (.Butterfield recognition shall be given an Memorial Chape·l). Sunday, please contact Jill Photo Society would like to Hall) at 7':30 p.m. Dr. Guillermo Class Day ceremonies, on June 8 . Sunday: I p.m. - Library Manning, 377-4994, or Barb thank all students and faculty Prada, of the IBM Components at Girling Center. Entrance fe~ Fteld, games and contests begin Sherman, 370~3601. who submitted their Division, East Fishkill, New for contestants is fifty cents, and · ' ..,.. -- p~otographic efforts. The prints York, will be the featured all others are welcomed to come ll IT d .(\' d ('f w1ll remain on exhibit through speaker. and ~heer on (help support} their 1r10 · ~qua JJef May 29. In recent years, there has beel} favonte lush. • * * * * a growing sense of frustration as * * * * ~ 7\ T D Sign-ups for any of the team efforts made to reme-dy The Black Student Alliance . OT 1 \'Off . ·. a nee contests which will he held deficiencies in socio-economic will sponsor its second ann?al , The Union College Modern Sunda} of Carni\al Weekend sy~tem~ haH.: failed to improve Alack Talent Show, featuring Dance Workshop will perform ~hould he made ;it the Studen; systems' operation. Perhaps no young performe_rs _fr~m with guest artists Thursday '\cti\itc~ Office h) Frida), Ma) other ~ingk \\ork to anal}te lh~oughout the C'apttal D1stnct, through Saturday at 8 p.m: in 19. Thts would include The these systems has generated as Fr1:Y· Mh ay 26.. . Nott Memorial Theater on the Roller Derh;. the Sca\enger much interest as J. Forrester's e ~ ow, set for _8 p.m. in college campus. ~unt or thl· Beer Chugging ''Systems Dynamics\ approach. Me\?onal Chapel, Will feature Major work by the Union ( onte~t. 1 n this lecture, which will be of music, poetry, dram~ and _dance dancers will be George Crumb's * * * * special interest to people a~d four cash pnzes Will be :·Ancient '(oices of Children,\ an· Anyone who is willing t'o lend involved in engineering, a arded ~o performers by _a mterpretatwn of poetry of a pair of their roller skates for industrial administration panel of JUdges. The show will Federico Garcia Lorca. The the Roller Derhy is asked to sociology, and economics, Dr: be open free to the public. worksshop will also do a series of leave their name and phone Praada will present the * * * * variations derived from Henry number with Mrs. Marra m the fundamental concepts of Systems Internationally prom in en t Cowell's \Tone Clusters\ for Student Activities Office. Dynamics as well as an sculptor James Rosati will give piano, and '\Union H,\ which * * * * evaluation of its advantages and· the annual Jaffe Art Lecture resulted from group discussions deficiencies. Thursday, May 18 at 8 p.m. i~ about issues of current concern George Sedlack; uptights:. LOWEST YOUTH FARES TO EUROPE of any scheduled airline · Fly Icelandic's Daily Scheduled Jets From New York To Luxem- bourg In The Heart Of Europe. $J65 round-trip jet YOUTH FARE. Ages 12 thru 25. Show proof of age. Add $10 each way for Peak Season departures eastbound June 20 thru July 25 and west- bound July 20 thru Aug 31. Good for overseas stays of up to a· year. $).95 round-trip jet STUDENT FARE. Ages 26 thru 29. Show proof of age and enrollment in bona fide school. Add $10 each way for Peak Season departures east- bound June 1 thru Aug 31 and westbound July 1 thru Sept 30; Good for overseas stays of up to a year. $J.25 one·way jet YOUTH FARE. Ages 12 thru 25, Show proof of age. No extra chatges. For youths wishing to remain over- · seas more than a year 1 this fare is an exclusive .with\ Icelandic and is less thart nAir .~fi~ com- parable one-waY. '~r:e.: -Of ·any other schE!duled atrijo~~;\ 1 ' ----------...--.-,.~:----- To: Icelandic Ai 630 Fifth AV.!}JiJ;~e 1 . (212) PL 7-8585. Send folderCN on Fares to Europe, Street ______ ...._.....__ City _____ __....,._ __ ~ state ____ zip ___ _ My travel agent is __ _.. _ ___._ ------------\\-\------ ' ~t ICELANIIIC The puhlic is cordially invited; Room 202 .of the Arts Building, This structured improvisatio~ Greek and Syrian music, will he refreshments will be served. The presentation , will be presents \the different rhythms in . th~ se~ond work presented by * * * * illustrated by slides and is open the human pace ofliving.\ Mtss Pnchard. Dr. William BeVier of the free to the public. Guest artist for the May 18 For t~e M~y 20 performance Department of Mechanical * * * * and 19 performances will be guest artists Wtll be Amy Darley Engineering will speak on The Union College Big Helga Prichard of the Capital of the New . York University Assessing Community Health Brother I Sister Program will hold Area Modern Dance Council. School of the Arts dance Needs in the Hale House its annual picnic on Saturday, She will perform tWo works departme'?t and David Linsey, Student Lounge, Thursday, May May 20, at the Girling Center. choreographed by Carl George. who studies. at The ~pa~e with 18, at 3 p.m. Transportation will be provided The first, \Eclipse has music Murray L~ms and Alvm Nrkolais. Dr. BeVier will discuss a to the Center, leaving the by Pril Smiley, who won first :he Unwn w?rkshop, led by project undertaken by Union Richmond House Parking Lot at finalist in the first International Gall George, mcludes Cheryl College students and other II :00 a.m., returning 3-4:00 p.m. Electronic Music Competition at Baucheau, John Collins, Daniel communit)' residents to assess All seniors are asked to drop a Dartmouth College in 1968, Miss ~ashman, Na_ncy Eppler, Sharon heallth needs and utilization of note in the Big Brother/Sister Smiley, of the Columbia- FJsc~s, Va!ene Hoffman, Hope services hy residents of Hamilton box in Student Activities Princeton Electronic Music Karim, Lisa Kotner, George Hill. Hamilton Hill is the regarding contingency plans Center, will be present for this Se~lack . Jr., Gt~ce ~#r,~~ll, designated urban renewal area of which either have been or premiere dance presentation of Mich_ael Schere~, ·Ricardo·Srmth, Schenectady. should be made for their little her work. Mana Slown;qek, Carol \' \' * * brother/ sister for next year. \Trilogy on a Folk Theme,\ Val!ghn, Samuel W¢ems and Ken danced to Beethoven, mandolin, Wyse. AT_TENTION ALL UNION SOPHOMORES Come In And Pick Up Your Union College Key GRATIS Maurice B. G-anbart & So~ \3 Union Graduates in Craubart family\ 166 Ja~ Street' :·~, , . L U I Q.l ' S ~-. Jt E S T A. U R A N T SPECIALIZING IN. Italian· Ameri~!J Food 112~ BARReTT ST. Schenectady Dl 6-9744 Enjoy Sizzling· Steaks ~nd Chops Visit Our CoHtaii''Bal\ ·• r-----~----------, : FERRO : : Pharmacy 1 f FOUNTAIN SERVICE One bl.ock fr~m f f FR 7 _ 0510 . Brownell Gate f L--~-~--~--..:!~t~=~-J There will be a Picnic for all 1najors in economics, their dates, and the faculty on Sunday, May 21st at 1:00 p.m. at the Girting Center. If you intend to come, there is a sign- up sheet in the secretary's office in the economics department BEER - HOT DOGS - HAMBURGERS - r and_l~.ts of jollies will be served . ····) •' • • • •• ' •. •' .. .. .. \ I ' ;) . '-~ . • \ .. ~ Wit - ;~ p .l ~··B p T·~ G 111 :fr .. p, ln w Rt DE AI YesteJ of stu to. thj Rung, Tooth .<itatue Arthu repeat Cryint. Millar Tooth a .visi N.J., 1 o.fj thE

8 CONCORDIENSJS, Wednesday, May 17, 1972 BLITHER The Coffee House performance of Roh Bernhardt this Frida:, at X p.m. will be in the Hale House dining room, not 1 In Old Chapel, as pre1iousll announced. · . . Carnival Weekend fhe Socwl Committee would linebacker. the l 'nion College Cour~e haluatton. wishe> to point out that the ratings given lor ART-<>.~0 <Call ;: 12~0-01) \C(1lor Pai ntmg II\ ~m· incorrt·ct. We apologi~t: tor tht> error. hut mu't pnmt out that It 11as out 11! nur hand,. The cia\ like to announce plans and · (sppecific times to be announced activities tor Carni1al Weekend later): Sca\'enger Hunt -- team * * * * ·r here 11 iII he a mr:et mg of t ht: beginning t~is Thursday, May of four: Roller. Derby team of IX. and runmng through Sunday, four, one patr of roller skates Chri,tian Sctentt!-.h on campu~ next I w.:,da) at 7:00 p.m. in Humamtie~ 015. ·1 he topic h communication. E ~r:none 1 , Ma: .. ~I. Cnbs specified. all per team and please bring any acttlttttcs are 1:-\REl' extra patrs: Beer Chugging Relay Thursday: H p.m. Modern -- team of ten (minimal entrance Dance Workshop. :\ott fee for beer). Prizes will be given. 11 a ' g 1 1 e n t h e \ ro HI:! que,tionn;urt.:. \.\'e \\til not 1\ekorne to attend. . * * * * \1emorial: 7. 9. II p.m. 2 p.m. -- 1950's concert and Woody Allen's mmie ''Take the dance contest, \The Shittons\ (if attempt to pnnt the correct ans\ICT~ here hut please note that The International Rei a tiom (~luh will hold a meeting on I hu~-,da), May I H. at 4:30 p.m. m SS 112 tor the purpose of electing officer!- for next vear. All -.tudent' V>ith p~eviou~ rarticipation in cluh acti\ittes are urged to attend. Money and Run,\ SS 016, $1.00. rain, Field House); 5-6 p.m. __ _ Friday: H p.m. Modern Saga Buffet and Bar-B-Q on ·the in!-.tructor rating should have heen clo~er to 7sr·; than the 2sr;; prinled. Studenh should ched. to ma kc \Ltre the~ till out the correct quc~llonnaire · \:() ·\R I COt RS!·. IS:\ LAB. Dance, Nott Memorial; 8 p.m. - West CoHege Field (meal cards The Coffee House presents Fred honored~. and Pam Sang and Bob Dunng_ the afternoon, the Bernhardt. Hale House; Interfraternity Council will sell * * * * I he entrtl'' in the PYf:-l'. * * * * An;. group who 11ould hke to ~pon~or an acti\ itv on Sundav of Carni1al Weekend i!-. a~ked- to contact either Jill Manning, 377- ~994 or Harh Sherman, 370-~601. * * * * The I .F. E. F. will sponsor a Folksinger Patrick Sky Midnight ~- Horror movie and cartoons, \Invasion of the Body- snatchers,\ outdoors at Library Plaaza (if rain, Sunday at 9 p.m.). Saturday: 8 p.m. - Modern Dance, Nott Memorial; 10 p.n1. Folk cmtcert on Library Field with Patrick Sky (if raiFJ, Memorial Chapel). -· Sunday: 1 p.m. -- Library held, games and contests begin beer, proceeds of which will be donated to the Cancer Research Fund. There will also be a bake sale for the same benefit, with b~ked goods being donated by gtrls at Union. Sign-ups for the contests requiring teams should be made at the Student Activities Office by Friday. All are welcome. Anyone, or any group, who has any ideas for Sunday, please contact Jill Manning, 377-4994, or Barb Sherman, 370-3601. Coli. Photo Societ\ 1-.n \ trDnnh: n t a a I I' hot og rap h) ( onte!-.t are not on display in the l.torar) l\.1usic Room. (her 30 prmh \\ere recei~t:d 111 tht: catcgorit:~ \Heaut;. of ~ature\ and \Thc R;naged Earth.\ The judging\ Ill take place later thi-, \1,-ek. V>inners will he notified on htday. Ma) 19. PYE and the Phnto Soctct;. \\ ould like to thank all \1 udenh and Ia cui t\ \\ h o 'u h rn it t e d t he i ·r photographic dlort~. I he pnnt~ \\Ill remain on t:.'l.hihit through \.Ia:-,. 29. lt:cture entitled '\Svstems Dynamics: An Evaluati~n\ on lue-,day, Ma;. 23. in the old Chem lecture room (Butterfield Hall) at 7:30 p.m. Dr. Guillermo Prada. of the IBM Components I>i\ is ion, Fast Fishkill, :-.Jew York. \\Ill he the featured -.peaker. All ~emors are invited to imbibe in a contest of,alcoholic endurance (not skill) this Fridav, May 19: in the Chi Psi Lodg~. at 3:30 m the afternoon. To the victor (survivor) of thi~ beer drinking marathon, the honorable title of the Class Keeper of the Jug shall be bestowed. as well as all rights and privileges thereof. Formal recognition shall he given an Class Day ceremonies, on June 8. at Girling Center. Entrance fee for contestants is fiftv cents and all others are welcomed to ~orne lilT d ('I d (Y and ~beer on (help support) their J Yl 0 J1q UU J€ [ fa vonte lush. * * * * S1gn-ur' lor an} of the t~:am Lllntcq.., \lhtch \\Ill he held <.;unda:-- o! ( ·arnlla! Weekend. ,hnuld ht· madt· .11 the Student ·\(( 1 lite.·, < llltcc h1 hu.la \. )'.fa\ ltJ lht' 1\uuld. induje lh~ l<nllcr I >crh\. the Se<llenger Hunt or th~· Bcer Chugging ('on h''l. * * * * :\m(}nl' 11ho 1' V>i!ling til lend a pall ul tlll·ir roller ... kate~ J(}r the R(}lkr Derh1 1' a~ked to lea\l' their nan;,. and phone numi1a 1\ith l\1r!-.. \larra m the Stud~.·nt \cti1 ttie:-. ()it ice. * * * * LOWEST YOUTH FARES TO EUROPE of any scheduled airline Fly Icelandic's Daily Scheduled Jets From New York To Luxem- bourg In The Heart Of Europe. $J6S round-trip jet YOUTH FARE. Ages 12 thru 25. Show proof of age. Add $10 each way for Peak Season departures eastbound June 20 thru July 25 and west- bound July 20 thru Aug 31. Good for overseas stays of up to a year. $)9·5 round-trip jet STUDENT FARE. Ages 25 thru 29. Show proof of age and enrollment in bona fide school. Add $10 each way for Peak Season departures east- bound June 1 thru Aug 31 and westbound July I thru Sept 30. Good for overseas stays of up to a year. $J25 one~way jet YOUTH FARE. Ages 12 thru 25. Show proof of ilf:;e. No extra charges. For youths wi~hing to remain over- seas more than a year, this fare IS an exclusive wi-th Icelandic and is less than half the com- parable one-way fare Of any other scheduled airline. ---------~~---- To: Ice!Jndic Airlines 510 Fifth Avenue N. (212) PL 7·'3585' Sr>nd told,· r CN on Yo fares to Europe Name ____ __;; Street---------- City _________ _ State _____ Zip ___ _ My travel agent is------ In ret:ent ~ear!-, there has he en a g:ro\\ ing ~en'e ot I ru,tration a~ l'ffort' made to nme<h Jd iuencie> 111 '-ocio-cconom i~ '~'term h;ne tailt:d to improw '~'ton,· operation. Perhap~ no othl'l '-Ingk 11 ork to anal\ tt: t hesl' '~ qerm ha~ gl'nerated · a> much mtere't a\ .1. I-orrester\ ··s;. 'term l )~ nar111c-.\ approach. In thi' lecture. \\hich \\ill he ol \pecial Interest to people Illloiled 111 engineering, tnduqrial admini!-.lration, '(ll'iolog~. and economics. Dr. Praada \\Ill present the fundamental concepb of Svsterm I>}namtc~ as \\ell a~ an c1aluation lll Ih ad\antages and· d d i <.·iencie,. l'he puhhc i' cordial!\ invited· refrco,hmt·nts 11 ill he -.er\~d. ' * * * * Dr. William ReVier ot the Department of Met:hanieal Engineering \ill speak on Assessing Community Health Needs in the Hale House. Student Lounge, ThursdaY. Mav IX.at~p.m. - · Dr. Be\' ier \iII discus~ a project undertaken h} [inion ( ·olkgc 'tudents and other ~.·ommunit) re~idenh to asse~s heallth need!-. and utt!i;ation o! 'en ices hy residents of Hamilton Hill. Hamilton Hill ~~ the destgnated urhan rene\\ al area of Schcnectad). * * * * * * * * Th•' ~ Black Student Alliance 1'. ill sponsor its second annual Hlack I alent ShoV>. featuring ~oung performers from throughout the Capital District. hid a 1\ Ma v 26. Ih~ sho~. set tor H · p.m. m \1 emorial Chapel. will feature music. poetry, drama and dance and four cash prizes will be awarded to performers by a panel of judges. The show will he open free to the public. * * * * Internationally prom in en t sculptor James Rosati will give the annual Jaffe Art Lecture, Thursday, May IH at H p.m. in Room 202 of the Arts Building. fhe presentation will he illustrated by slides and IS open free to the public. * * * * The Union College Hig Rrother1 Sister Program will hold its annual picnic on Saturdav May 20, at the Girling Cente-r: Transportation will be provided to the Center, leaving the Richmond House Parking Lot at 11:00 a.m., returning 3-4:00 p.m. All seniors are asked to drop a note in the Big Brother Sister ho.x in Student Activities regarding contingency plans v.hicl\! either have been or should he made for their little hrothn sister tnr ncxt ~t:ar. For Nott Dance The Union College Modern Dance Workshop will perform with guest artists Thursday through Saturda) at X p.m. in :\ott Memorial Theater on the college campus. Major work by the Union dancers will be George Crumb's \Ancient Voices of Children,\ an interpretation of poetry of Federico Garcia Lorca. The worksshop will also do a series of variations derived from Henry Cowell's \Tone Clusters\ for piano, and \Union II,\ which resulted from group discussions about issues of current concern. This structured imprmisation presents \the different rhvthms in the human pace of living.;, Guest artist for the May 18 and 19 performances will be Helga Prichard of the Capital Area Modern Dance Council. She will perform two works choreographed by Carl George. The first. \Eclipse has music by Pril Smiley, who won first finalist in the first International Electronic Music Competition at Dartmouth College in 1968, Miss Smiley, of the Columbia- Princeton Electronic Music Center, will be present for this premiere dance presentation of her work. \Trilog) on a Folk Theme,\ danced to Beethoven. mandolin, George Sedlack, uptights. Greek and Syrian music, will be the second work presented by Miss Prichard. For the May 20 performance guest artists will be Amy Darley of the New York University School of the Arts dance departme~t and David Linsey, who studtes at The Space with Murray Louis and Alvin Nikolais. The Union workshop, led by Gail George, includes Cheryl Baucheau, John Collins, Daniel Dashman, Nancy Eppler, Sharon Fiscus, Valerie Hoff man, Hope Karlin. Lisa Korner. George Sedlack Jr., Grace Sardell Michael Scherer, Ricardo Smith' Maria Slowisczek, Caroi Vaughn. Samuel Wet>ms and Ken Wyse. ATTENTION r-----~----------, : FERRO • ALL UNION SOPHOMORES Come In And Pick Up Your Union College Key GRATIS Maurice B. G-aubart & Sons ••,'J Union Graduate.~ in Graubarl family\' 166 J a~ Street _ LUIGI'S \ita IE S TAU RANT SPECIALIZING IN Italian • American Food : Pharmacy ! f FOUNTAIN SERVICE One block from f f FR 7 _ 0510 . Brownell Gate t L __________ _s!::t~~~-t There will be a Picnic for all majors in economics, their dates, and the faculty on Sunday, May 21st at 1:00 p.m. at the Girling Center. If you intend to come, there is a sign- up sheet in the secretary's office in the economics department. BEER - HOT DOGS ----~- ~ 112_5 BARRETT ST. Schenectady 01 6-9744 - HAMBURGERS- and l~ts of jollies will be served r /CElAND/C Enjoy Sizzling· Steeks and Chops Visit Our Codtaii Bar • .. . l • , .. \ .. J A : 11' • i . ~' • 1 ! l I : .... • • . ' •• • II • . ., f • • • Witl - E \ p L• B p T~ G In Fr p, In w RE De Ar Yester ofstw to th~ Hungt Tooth statue Arthw repeat4 Crying Millar( Tooth, a visil N.J., ~' off the

.• t . .. '') • • • l • t: •· •••• . ; • . ~· • r CON·CORDY 20c With Apologies to the Nation~i :Enquirer Vol. 101, NoA7, May 24, 19'12 Enquirer ExclusiVe on on Incredible Underwater Odyssey ..• : M.etal Freak !'Proclaims Kinky : love for lncas ·Page 3' .··Blue Ribbon Panel Conc'lu·d'es: T.elevision Is ·Good Ftlr Youl Page 6 lncredlble: Frost on the ·Pumpkin.- lnJ·une I Page2 Weirdo Troupe Ready To ·Desecrate American D,ream. · Page 7. Yesterday a/iernoon, in the presence ofstunned onlookers at the entrance to. the famed Garden de Jackson, Hungarian-porn Bolivian Las/ow Tooth climbed the treasured bronze .itatue of the beloved Chester A. Arthur and proceeded to 'take repeated blows at the immobile President With a hammer. Crying out more than once, \!am Millard Fillmore!\ the deranged Mr. Tooth, caught in this photograph by a .visiting tourist from Paramus, N.J., was apprehended after falling oj] the statue and his nose and left arm. I by ED KANOWITZ,. with JOHN. QUIRK \The thought that really bothered me while I was down there was that ·my folks would hear that their sondrowned inasewer pipe.\ ... Ed Kanowitz What is it like to face death? What does a dying person think of! How does one faced with immediate death react? In its first issue the Concordy Enquirer reveals the answers to these questions through Ed Kanowitz, the new American folk legend. The man acclaimed by Field and Stream, \to have performed a labor of Hercules\ by swimming through an overflo.wing 250. foot . long sewer culvert and living to tell about it. (reprinted with permission of Simon and Schusboomer Inc. from the book, \Sewercide\, all rights reserved.) I can vividly recall tbe bleakness of that afternoon. The sky was overcast and gray seemingly f01;etelling the danger that was to occur. The hard rain had fallen and departed but left the campus so inundated that I decided to try out my new rubber raft in the accumulation in front of Chi Psi. 1t was peaceful and enjoyable but inside I want<;:d more, so when told about the current in Jackson's Gardens, I was off. As l think back on that day I realize that this was a decision that almost cost me my life. I hurried across campus, my raft over my shoulders, my paddles in my hand. At the Garden gate I met Dean Malloy who in passing mentioned, \You better watch out, the water is polluted.\ \Dorlt Worry,\ ·I replied, .. 1 don't plan on taking a swim.\ Little did I know. The situation inside that area was all that was promised, ·so I quickly hurried to launch my raft into the murky waters and join the students that were already enjoying the aftermath of the spring torrents. The current was very ·strong and immediately I realized that my small craft was uncontrollable in the surging sewerage. However, I was reassured by the Words of my nautical engineer, Ken Grey, who had assured me at embarkation that my fears were unfounded - the current would quietly move downstream and exit into a peaceful lake a~·ea to the right. Although I knew that the water must be gomg somewhere, never did it cross my mind that the culvert was there, submerged by the high tide. Heroic Gesture, Then ••• Suddenly, I was aroused by some commotion. Man.y on. the shore thought that my roomate's dog, Cambridge, was m senous danger for he lay lifeless near the shore seemingly drowning. Immediately, I was put of my raft swimming recklessly toward the sinking animal. Although the dog and I have had words_ I couldn't Continued on ?age 7

.. l • • . ~· 1 l .I I I c o. ' . '· • • -.,· . ' •• . t I ... ·~ • II • • . ., , Ill ,j o\ • CONCORDY 20c With Apologies to the National Enquirer Vol. 101, No. 47, May 24, 1972 ~-. c -:,, ~ . .. 9 Boys with' Clubs Try to Beat Victim Twice for Old Man Enquirer Exclusive on an Incredible Underwater Odyssey ... Metal Freak ' Proclaims Kinky Love for Incas Page 3' Blue Ribbon Panel Concludes: Television Is Good For You! Page 6 Incredible: Frost on the Pu:mpkin.- In June J Page2 Weirdo Troupe Ready To Desecrate American Dream Page 7 Yesterday afternoon, in the presence of stunned onlookers at the entrance to the famed Garden de Jackson, Hungarian-born Bolivian Las/ow Tooth climbed the treasured bronze statue of the beloved Chester A. Arthur and proceeded to take repeated blows at the immobile President with a hammer. Crving out more than once, \!am Millard Fillmore!\ the deranged Mr. Tooth, caught in this photograph by a visiting tourist from Paramus, N.J., was apprehended after falling off the statue and his nose and left arm. ' --,~t by ED KANOWITZ, with JOHN QUIRK \The thought that really bothered me while I wa~· down there was that my folks would hear that their son drowned inasewer pipe.\ ... Ed Kanowitz What is it like to face death'? What does a dying person think of? How does one faced with immediate death react'? In its first issue the Concordy Enquirer reveals the answers to these questions through Ed Kanowitz, the new American folk legend. The man acclaimed by Field and Stream, \to have performed a labor of Hercules\ by swimming through an overflowing 250. foot long sewer culvert and living to tell about it. (reprinted with permission of Simon and Schusboomer Inc. from the book. ''Sewercide\ all rights reserved.) I can vividly recall the bleakness of that afternoon. The sky was overcast and gray seemingly foretelling the danger that was to occur. The hard rain had fallen and departed but left the campus so inundated that I decided to try out my new rubber raft in the accumulation in front of Chi Psi. It was peaceful and enjoyable but inside I wanted more, so when told about the current in Jackson's Gardens, I was off. As I think back on that day I realize that this was a decision that almost cost me my life. I hurried across campus, ;... .• ·---:,:::q.J %¥;,;<&\\\'»\'. \'f j, \':~ : •. L\ my raft over my shoulders, my paddles in my hand. At the Garden gate I met Dean Malloy who in passing mentioned, \You better watch out, the water is polluted.\ \Dont worry,\ I replied, \I don't plan on taking a swim.\ Lit.tle did I know. The situation inside that area was all that was promised, ·so I quickly hurried to launch my raft into the murky waters and join the students that were already enjoying the aftermath of the spring torrents. The current was very strong and immediately I realized that my small craft was uncontrollable in the surging sewerage. However, I was reassured by the words of my nautical engineer. Ken Grey, who had assured me at embarkation that my fears were unfounded the current would quietly move downstream and exit into a peaceful lake area to the right. Although I knew that the water rn ust he gomg somewhere, never did it cross my mind that the culvert was there, submerged by the high tide . Heroic Gesture, Then ... Suddenly, I was aroused by some commotion. Many on the shore thought that my roomate's dog, Cambridge, was in serious danger for he lay lifeless near the shore seemingly drowning. Immediately, I was put of my raft swimming recklessly toward th.e sinking animal. Although the dog and I have had words I couldn t Continued on Page 7

2 CONCORD/EN SIS, Wednesday, May 24, 1972 CONCORDIENSIS founded at Union College in 1877 \/got 200 wins two weeks ago, the records are wrong.\ -Coach Art Lawrence MIKE MESEROLE - editor-in-chief PETER BICKE~MAN, DAVID ENGEL .... associate editors JOE ACHENBAUM - business manager GEORGE BAIN - managmg editor MARK MINDEL - sports editor DAVE CONREY - photography editor MII(E HURLEY, MARK SHULMAN- advertising TOM CONLEY - subscriptions STAFF: Tim Cain, John Quirk, Patty Sipe, Ken Gilpin, Jim Patrick Smith, R. Treat Rinear, Jr., Gil Church, John Calender, Pat Bunn, Luke Dillon, Bill Killen, Mark Campbell, Mark Urman, Les Goldman, Ruth Morton,. Frank DeLucia, Joel Roslyn, Bill Holleran, Tom Hudak, Steve Manus, Rick Judd, Paul Rieschick, The Eaty Gourmets, Joe Chapman, Sam Brody, Alison Sloat. Absolute Powero .. The following case involves the domination of the student segment of College governance by a self-appointed and self- perpetuating elite. This domination is institutionalized in the Committee on Committees, an organization which, in effect, controls the entire process of student selection to committee posts. Granting that the members oLthe Committee on Committees are hard-working individuals Oedicated to the improvement of the College community, there is stili simply too much power given to this group. This concentration of authority can lead both to sloppiness and (in the minds of some) the appearance of impropriety. Both elements were present in the procedure of selecting applicants for assignments to the Admissions Committee. Approximately thirty applicants were told to appear for personal interviews late Tuesday afternoon. As it turned out, however, the interviews were' hardly personal. Groups of 7 or .S people were ushered before the Committee on Committees for group interviews which lasted no more than fifteen -mi-nutes. After the session had ended, most participants seemed to regard it as essentially worthless. In such a setting there seemed to be little to choose among the candidates. Those in charge, however, apparently perceive things better than the common man, for within two hours the names of those selected to the Admissions Committee were announced to the Student Senate. It must he noted that one of those selected is presently a member of the Committee on Committees and participated in the interviewing process; while not illegal, this is what is meant by the appearance of impropriety. Split on Referendum The following are the results of the balloting on the referend urn concerning the proposals I 7. IS, and 21, which are explained below. Both faculty and student votes are tabulated. Proposal 17: A student. with the consent of his advisor. may take less than a full course load during a given term. Faculty 46 For. 50 Against Students 447 For, 52 Against Proposal 18: A student may drop a course up to the end of the sixth week for any reason and without penalty. upon proper notification to the Registrar. Faculty 35 For. 61 Against Students 456 For, 52 Against Porposal 21: A student may drop a course without penalty after the end of the ('oncordiensis\ puhl\hcd Clt'r\ \\~dnc,d.11 dunn)! the Spnng lerrn. cxn•pt dunn)! t\\ .111d 1acatton period,, hi the stud em hod~ ••I t i llt<m College. Edttorml <>flic.:s art.• l<•c;tted nn lht.• \'nmd .floor of the Geolng~ Hutldtn)! o1er the Rathskcllar Publication office: World Puhltcanons. 771 State Screet. Schenectad). :'>I.Y .. 1~.107. Repr~scnted IM national , adv·erllsing hy !'\ationul Educatwnal Advertising Sen·ice. Inc. College Publishers· Representative. )60 lexington Ave .• Nev. ·York <'itr Second class postage paid at Schenectady. N.Y. sixth week of a term but prior tO the end of the tenth'week of classes or the date of the fin a I examination, whichever is later, provided the instructor and the student's faculty advisor, or the dean, approve. Faculty 29 For, 67 Against Students 426 For, 78 Against A total of 96 faculty members and about 500 students voted on this referendum. The students who voted generally endorsed the proposals, as can easily be seen, and the faculty rejected the three proposals. This failure to arrive at a concensus means that the proposals will be resubmitted to the C~llege Senate. If two~ thirds of the College Senate vote in favor of any or all of the proposals, the approved proposals will be enacted. If a proposal is not endorsed by two~thirds of that body, it is rejected. SutN·npnon r;llt\ 2flc per tssut•, SX.OO l't'r ~c:tr: ddt\Ctt•d .1111\\ht•n· m tht.• l mtcd Star..-s. Suhs.:nprion Mdt•r,, und~hlcrahl..- <'IIPI<\s. and o:hapg~ ol addn:s~ twli<'t.'s should he mailed to the \\'\~pap~r at llnwn (-.1llc:ge. Scho:liectud). \.Y .. 12JOX. Tclc:phones: ar~a code 5111. Puhlish~r: J4b-:!J56. Ediwr4 n-Chid: J46- 9.UO. !\iel.H. cditonal. and hustnl!ss <ll'ficts: -370-6155. J711-6151l. l.euers 11• the Editor and Blither ~hould lle trpl!'d. doublt-spuced. \'ritt<\n in English (<lr a reastmahle facsimile theret\0. and to the point llnlcss. signed. edilonals rcpr~enl the opinions <lf the cdit()rs df Concordlensls. Letters Back in·theUSSR In the Soviet Union, dissident intellectuals are put· in insane asylums or sent off to Siberia. In the U.S., our penalt-ies are more humane and subtle. Step out of line ... challenge the establishment ... react to controversial issues and Z-A~P, you may find yourself eased out of your job. At least that is what has been happening to prefessors at Union College and other universities over the years. MARZ ... MOSS ... SNIDER ... three individuals that stand out in my association with Union Coll~;:ge. This relationship began 25 years ago as a student. These are the names of creatiVe, committed teachers who were refused tenure at Union College. Professors Marz and Moss taught at Union for a few years and then moved on, leaving a significant Vote for Voice void on campus. Their political and social As the originators ·of the proposal to activism was one of the decisive factors in enable Seniors to choose a representative the denial of their permanent status by the student speaker for Graduation, we would power elite of Union College. like· to make it· clear that our motion is After leaving Schenectady, Prof. Marz based solely on the principJe of a and Moss made many vital contributions representative student voice in the to their professions in their new Commencement program. In no way do communities. Now, Prof. Dave .Snider will we desire to question the ability of a be added to the list. We will miss him very woman and/9r transfer student to much ... but it should help keep future represent this year's· graduates. Nor do we generations of teachers in line and that is question the ability of the academically probably the name of the game. top ranking student to speak for Seniors. David Coplon·~'\ The question of representativeness can • 1 · only he answered by the members of the S ·p· ring Swa.l ow· Class of 1972. They alone .should decide · · who speaks for them. Tribute should be paid to two students who finally took it upon themselves to make Union College a more interesting place. Mark Belsky and Tom Hartman jointly organized the \Faculty as Scholar\ series this term, which consistently drew 60-70 people. Union students frequently complain about how \apathetic\ or \boring\ life on campus is. Mark and Tom are the first people I know who chose to do anythipg about it; they merit the thanks of all segments of the College. One swallow never makes a Spring - but one The following motion is designed . to do just that. We have proposed that no arbitrary decision be made in choosing the student Commencement speaker. Rather, all Seniors who desire to give a short address at Graduation would compose a three minute summary of their major points. These prospective speakers would then present their summaries before a Glass meeting. After hearing these summaries, all Seniors present would vote for the student speaker of their choice. The result of this simple procedure would be· a student speaker chosen by the people he or Byron A. Nichols she is supposedly speaking for. Dept. of Politic~) Science The speaker could be a man, woman, dares to hope. Frost Warning five-year, four-year, three-year, two-year, one-year student - it would be up to the Seniors. Whoever the class selected would certainly be more .representative than In response to your editorial of May 17, someone chosen under a statistical rule. would like to clear up several Perhaps Paula Maras Frost, the misconceptions. designated valedictorian, would be chosen. First, the premise upon which you base We are not opposed to Mrs. Frost per se. your argument that a transfer student, as If she should desire to speak for the Class, valedictorian, cannot truly represent the we are sure she, or any other interested· senior class is fallacious. The purpose of a student, would gladly air a summary of valedictory address is not to represent the her (or their) views before the Class. views of the graduating .class (which would The student who speaks at be impossible to do, anyway) but to Commencement is speaking for the Class represent the views of the speaker, a right of 1972. The power to choose who that which is earned through academic speaker will be should rightfully belong to excellence, not endurance. the Seniors. Secondly, a four-year Union student has If you agree with this proposal, please been designated as co~valedictorian and sign the petition currently circulating on was invited to speak at commencement; he campus. declined. Sincerely, Henry Kass Mark Coven Phil Galdston Third, I do not believe that the quality of a student's relationship with a college can be judged solely in terms of length of tenure. By this reasoning, no transfer student,. or student who has taken a term, or a year abroad, or a leave of absence for Fox Memorial any reason, can ever be valedictorian. More than a year has passed since the Sincerely, death of Professor Sherwood Fox. A Brian E. Frost group of his friends, colleagues, and Qua.l ..• ,.·catl•ons former students have discussed some kind of memorial to this man who touched our In the editorial of May 17th you complained that a transfer student was to represent the Senior class as valedictorian and undoubtedly would be unqualified for the job. The reason you presented was that someone who had been here only half the time the rest of his or, in this case, her class had been here could not reflect the feeling of her classmates. Maybe the fact that a girl has come to represent the second to last class that was originally all male has rankled some, but this to me is not the real issue. I can't see wl.ly someone who has achieved the highest academic rating of their class is immediately qualified to represent that class on graduation day. It would seem that someone who was chosen through a system of balloting would more closely reflect the class that elected her or him. I suspect that few people are aware, until it is announced, who holds the highest rank in .their class: but I also feel that many people could suggest classmates they would like to have as Valedictorian. Peter B. Paeh lives. After consulting with his widow, we have decided that a tree planted in Jackson's Gardens in his memory would be an appropriate symb<>lic gesture. All members of the college community who wish to contribute any sum may do so by leaving or mailing a contribution to :Professor William Stone, Department of Mathematics. Checks should be made out to Union College. Frank Gado Cooking Cancer I'd like to publicly thank all those girls who baked food for the benefit bake sale on Sunday. Over $26 will be donated to the Cancer Fund as a result of those efforts. Also, a thanks to those girls who gave up some of their dancing and/or drinking and/ or frisbee time in order to sell the bake sale food. Your multiple contributions were greatly appreciated and helped in making Carnival Sunday a big success. · JiU Manning • ~, e I i e t f v F b c d a tl ( p n p Sl e· p Sl '\ 1 0 p 0 p p e1 VI

iJ f CONCORDIENS!S, .Wedn(?sday, May 24, 1972 3 - ,. Ro1.1se Stresses· Moderator's Role Carnival Big Success Shy Shines On Rodeo by PETER DICKERMAN :or. H. Ronald Rouse; . the third in a series of provost candidates to visit, the campus, rnade his appearance late last week, . and a combination of carnival weekend actiVities and mild weather reinforced student disinterest in the provost selection p.rocess. A Student Senate meeting with Dr. Rouse scheduled for last Friday had to be cancelled due t0 virtually total non~attendance, and the previous evening an informal session with students atiracted an audience of less than ten. Questioned as to the position of a provost within the Union system; Rouse, who is currently National Director of the Wo0drow Wilson National Fellowship Foundation, acknowledged that \there's a certain amount of gamble\ to the job. However, he added t,hat his past work in formulating solutions to problems through extensive consultation has been \veny swces~?fu.l\ . in surmounting apparently autocratic systems. By Jeff Weilb!lrg H. RONALD ROUSE He expressed interest in a potential system which could preserve academic freedom without perpetual job security. Rouse added that the future may contain widespread collective bargaining for faculty, but that at Union there is ''mote to be lost than to be gained\ by such a change. In summary, Dr. Rouse stressed that the provost will have the task of promoting informed discussion and narrowing differences on the issues, but further that the administration has a responsibility to lead when various groups are in conflict • by RICK JUDD and TOM HUDAK The Social Committee was again successful in the difficult job of providing talented musicians for the entertainment of the student body. Coupled with the Coffee House, this was one of the finer musicial weekends this term. · Bobby Bernhardt lent his musical talents and natural showmanship to the Coffee House Friday night. The overflowing crowd in Hale House thoroughly enjoyed Bobby as he played his way through selections ranging from Neil Young's \Cowgirl in the Sand\ to the Dave Clark Five's \Glad All Over.\ While cnticJsms of Union College students in the past few weeks have included everything from apathy to racism, there is one that can be definitely verified. When it comes to concert etiquette, we have some rea·l assholes. Saturday night Patrick Sky, a songwriter with impeccable credentials, was rudely received with constant chatter and outright discourteousness. \Sounds like a Speaking of the need to recruit more minority~group students, Dr. Rouse stated that applicants should meet the College's academic standards, but that these standards may require modification, with greater emphasis on factors other than SAT sco.res. He also favored the hiring of more black faculty, while saying that this group· is presently somewhat scarce. Jaffe Lecture In Dr. Rouse's view, an increase in socio~economic diversity in the College should occur as the culmination of a detailed process of consultation and preparation; however, he mentioned that in certain circumstances the provost should use administrative \muscle\ to create more socio~economic diversity. Rosati On Sculpture byTIM CAIN . . Confronted with a hypothetical situation involving occupation of a campus building by a group of students, Rouse replied that \Things like that do not happen out of a clear, blue sky,\ but often reflect an accumulation of past administrative failures. In such a situation, he would favor a maintenance of channels for negotiation. Dealing with the issue of educational innovation, Dr. Rouse referred to his experience jp a program of experimental education at Tufts and asserted that the educational validity of a pr-o:p,osal• cannot be determined without limited experimentation. Rouse stated that excessive ''departmentalism\ has become a burden to the academic community, since most academic distinctions are \merely an administrative convenience,\ and the dividing lines between Centers have become too sharp. Concerning the tenure problem, Dr. Rouse said that methods of student evaluation of professors should be strengthened and that such evaluation be placed m the professors' permanent records. This year's Jaffe lecturer in the Arts was sculptor James Rosati. The Jaffe lectureship was established by the late Union alumnus and Trustee William B. Jaffe, who, according to President Martin in his introductory remarks, had \a lifelong concern for the Arts at Union.\ Martin said t:hat he has been \tremendously impressed\ by what has been happening in the Arts here at Union over the past seven years. By Jeff Weilburg James Rosati Rosati, an internationally known sculptor, does not often give ,lectures to groups such as' last Thursday night's crowd of sixty people in room 202 of the Arts Building. In fact, he said, this is \the second time I've done this really in my whole life.\ Rosati's presentation consisted of slides of many of his more 600 Protest 25% Slash During the last four days nearly six hundred Union students have signed a petition currently being circulated by students concerned with proposed budget cuts that would effect the Counseling Center. The petition reads, \I would not object to an assessment of $3.00 on my annual college bill (at $1.00 per term) to help ctaintain the present level of counseling at th.e Union College s:ampus.\ Tpe petition is an effort by members of the Union community to overturn an administration decision to cut three part~time professionals from the counseling center. The salaries of the three psychologists total $7,500.00. Members of the counseling staff feel that these cuts will emasculate the center and make it impossible to supply needed and wanted services to students. Larry Weitz, director of counseling, said h\e felt Jhat it was counter~productive to slash by 25% a pro grath tHai' serves nearly 40% of the student body during the year. Important pieces constructed since 1962. The audience was encouraged to ask questions, and an explanation of Rosati's art was the result of this exchange between the artist and his audience. \This is really difficult,\ Rosati emphasized, ••t t's sort of like standing in front of your father and explaining why you want to marry the girl you want to marry.\ The pieces of sculpture that were shown in the slides were mostly simple, abstract, geometric forms. The sculptures varied in size from several inches high to twenty-five or thirty feet igh. Rosati has, in the recent past, worked almost exclusively with metal, and the questions from the audience dwelt mainly on the problems to be encountered in working with such unyielding materials as stainless steel, brass, and zinc. He briefly discussed the problems of cutting the metal to size, filing it, and getting a proper fit for his finished sculpture. When someone from the audience complimented him on getting \a pretty good fit\ on one of the pieces of sculpture, Rosati replied, ''I'm a pretty good man ... \ Rosati sa1d that he wants to \do with the' eye what the composer does for the ear.\ He emphasized that he is \interested in exhausting a concept\ with his sculpture: ··when I have a concept I push it as far as I can.\ As far as influences on his own sculpture are concerned, Rosati said, \I've been in love with the Incas; you kno·w, Macchu Picchu: i still think that after years and years, they've done the best thing I've ever seen ... \ Rosati, although not a polished speaker, used slides of his work and his own explanations to communicate some interesting aspects ofthe.creative experience. One of his largest pieces and admittedly one of his personal favorites is the stainless steel creation that stands in Wichita, Kansas, and is known simply as \The Wichita Piece.\ There will also be two other pieces of Rosati sculpture in Albany on the South Mall, upon completioh ef that complex. 8y Jeff Weilburg JOE KAKNES exhibits dance contest-winninK j(mn as THE SHITTONS throw down some steps of their own. rodeo in here,\ Sky joked as he counterpart to Sha Na Na acted, attempted to play through his set. danced, and sang the hits of the The concert itself c·onsisted of early sixties with adept skill: weU~performed music when one while the audience proved adept was lucky enough to hear it at getting shitfaced and enjoying through the din of the crowd. He some of the best all~time music. skillfully played, on banjo and The warm summer.;like day, blue guitar, songs he had written for sky, beer, and the tunes like, ••My such well~known performers as Boy Friend's Back,.\ \Heat Merle Haggard, Buffy Sainte Wave,\ \It's My Party,\ \Johnny Marie, and John Kay. Sky Angel,\ \Leader of the Pack,\ should be commended for \Chapel of Love,\ \My Girl,\ keeping such a warm rapport and \I Will Follow Him,\ with the audience although they brought back days of high school continual.ly pushed the cruisin'. The appreciation due the obnoxious~meterintothered. Shittons for their fine Sunday afternoon the Shittons performance is truly deserved provided a suitable finale for considering the fact that they did Carni:val Weekend. The female the concert for only travel costs. Ca~nival Gallery •' -··· -···-· ........ , ........... -~ ~ .. ,.,.,_ -- ··. -~ ~,,~ ,' .............. ~ 8} Jeff Weilburg STRUMMING AWAY a Sunday afternoon is Bohhr Bernhardt, who broke up Hale House last Fritlay night. By Stan Jackson THE DRINK and THE DRINKER during Sunday's beer chugging ~arnival finale. By Stan Jac~son

Wednesday, May 24, /972 4 Union Nine Lights Art's Cigar Big Resurge Falls Short by .. GENTLEMAN\ JOEL The season should have ended last Wednesday, for the Union LaXmen. On that day they upended a mighty Syracuse team, 13-12. In the season finale, last Saturday against R.P.I., the Dutchmen took it on the chin by a score of 10-6. It was a dismal day as the Garnet took the field to battle the Engineers, and it was particularly disappointing as the final gun sounded leaving the LaXmen's record at 5-6. Unlike last year's contest which was played in brilliant sunshine, this year's affair was played in conditions which have come to he expected for this Spring. The fi.:ld, especial1y in front of the cages was saturated with water and provided no traction for the .players. Despite the inclement weather, a large crowd turned out · including a few gentlemen who had tipped a number of beers on the previous day. A win over lt.P.I. would have salvaged an otherwise disappointing campaign. However, after the first 16 ;econds of the game things were not looking good, as R.P.I. put the first score of tile game on the hoard. As a matter of fact, they went on to score 6 more goals in Qthe first period before Union finally scored. Coach Allison lifted R-More after the 5 initial goals, and put Mike Peng in the net. Moishe fared no better. Good Comeback The LaXmen were down, but they made a strong comeback in the second half, and at one time trailed by only two goals, 8-6. R.P.I. then scored twa more times, and that was all the scoring done. The Garnet seemed to be lost in the first quarter and let the game slip out of reach. The 6 goals tallied by the LaXmen were scored by the men who have been pro\Viding most of the offensive punch the whole year. Stan White had 2 goals, and Barry Gross, Bobby Grossman. Denms Walker and Mark Sanderson a II scored one. For the seniors it was a sour note to end their careers on. The game against Syracuse would have been much more appropriate. 'Poly Finishes Lacrosse, 10·6 By Jon Philipson ANOIHER TALLY: Barry Gross scores his last goal of the season in the loss to R. P.l. In what has to have been one of the most exciting games ever played by a U. Coli lacrosse team, the Garnet scored twice in the final 28 seconds to nip the OrangeMen. The Dutchmen had led 11-8 going into the final quarter, but- fell behind 12-11. With 28 seconds to go, Mark Sanderson beat the Syracuse defense on a great individual effort and found an open spot in the cage. On the ensuing face-off, Stan White took the ball and raced down the field. Just 5 seconds after Sandy had knotted the score, Stan out maneuvered and out ran the Syracuse team to score the winning goal. The Colden Jet Dennis Walker had a fine afternoon with 4 goals and an Continued on. Page 5 BASEBALL STATISTICS AB R H RBI 2B 3B HR SB BB AVG. Rick Arons 57 16 25 17 5 I 0 5 8 .440 Gene Quirk 57 20 21 8 4 0 I 7 8 .370 Gary Lauver 27 6 9 7 I 0 0 2 5 .333 Scott Burns 6 l 2 l 0 0 0 I I .333 Steve Stockman 3 0 I I 0 0 0 0 0 .333 Bob Mitchell 58 15 19 1.6 2 4 I 4 7 .327 Skip Lega 47 7 15 II 5 0 0 0 8 .320 Greg Breedlove 19 4 6 6 2 0 I 0 5 .315 Joe Urschel 17 5 4 I 0 0 0 0 6 .294 Bob Bernhardt 63 16 18 13 2 0 2 5 4 .287 Ron Westbrook 53 14 15 12 4 0 I 9 9 .283 Pete Feaman 4 I I I 0 0 0 0 I .250 Rolf Wandel 20 3 3 0 0 0 0 0 4 .150 Randy Rushak 40 5 4 3 2 0 0 2 6 .100 Steve Andrews 22 2 2 2 0 0 0 0 3 .091 Jon Gould 4 0 0 0 0 0 0 3 .000 PITCHING RECORDS IP H R ER RB SO CG ERA Record Joe Urschel 53 1 /-' 51 21 18 21 22 4 3.04 7-1 Bob Mitchell 441jJ 35 17 5 9 21 3 1.01 3-2 Jon Gould 17 19 8 8 2 6 I 4.23 1-0 Steve Stockman 5 1(1 3 6 I 7 4 0 1.69 0-0 Total 120 107 52 32 39 53 8 2.40 ll-3 But Engineers Spoil Urschel a~d Finale,4·3 'by MARK MINDEL ~ports Editor \It looks like Art Cigar is getting off to a slow start on his next two hundred',\ said . an astute observor after the sixth inning of the RPI-Urrlon baseball game Monday .aft\ernoon. The young gent was right, as the Engineers held off a final burst by a seemingly lethargic Garnet nine to upend the Union squad, 4- 3 and put a sour finishing note on an otherwise sweet season. Union finished the season at 11-3, and the loss thwarted the Dutchmen's hopes of sweeping all their capital district foes. Union beat Siena and Albany twice, while bumping off RPI on Friday, 5-I~ clinching the Capital District championship for the second straight year. The loss could also conceivably hurt Union's ratings. In a bi-weekly .. Collegiate Baseball\ publication. the Garnet were mentioned honorably. RPI's victory Monday also rneans Coach Art Lawrence must wait until next season to go after his 20lst win; Friday's win was the golden . one for Lawrence, putting him into the two ~,;entury mark. Appeal Play Union opened the scoring in the second inning when Gary Lauver hit his first of two line shots bringing home Ronnie Westbrook, who had walked, all the way from first. The score was disallowed however when RPI appealed the play, claiming the fleet-footed West brook had missed second. Umpire Tommie Brennan was right on the play and upheld the appeal. Ibis run was to prove costly, and doubly so, as Lauver was in . scoring position at second. The play was also fairly representative of the lustless overall play of the Union squad. It seemed they thought all along that they could win, and did not feel in jeopardy until the ninth inning when it was too late. RPI drew first blood on the scoreboard when center-fielder . Glenn W altsak tripled with one out in the fourth. Union's dauntless Quirk-MitcheH- Bernhardt relay was bobbled. Then catcher Herb V anDeilsen ripped a line shot to left center, but Geno Qu~rk caught in and in one fluid motion rifled a shot that would have caught Waltsak by a least 50 feet: but the Engineer w.is~ly ~held his· g}jouhdc Rightfielder Bill- Susetka then singled home Waltsalk. Union came right back wl;l.ePc, Lauver got what would have been his sec()nd RBI knocking . ByLes Kernan fHE BEST HUSTLE: Batting leader Rick Arons home Rick Arons, who had doubled. Two Cheap Runs In the sixth, Union's ,fielding lapses paved the way for two more runs. First-sacker Tom· Taylor doubled, aod after a Wfll~ 1 ~ to Waltsak scored on a groundball that just rolled its way p~~ ~ second1'sacker, -,.Bob Mitchell. 'G\ary Lau~r'·c'a'm-..\ip throwing but there w~ nothing on the bal~ and what looked like a good chance to get the runner at the plate turned into a sliding run. After a sacrifice ount by Susetka.. pinch-hitter Lloyd Askew check-swinged a cheap run-scoring single after Urschel had worked him 0~2. Continued on Page 5 Coach Art Lawrence: 11-3 season; 200-149 Lifetime . :. :. : ~ .. ,. (1. l J!l• <1. .\\ .. \' ' • AN ( b G A tlleh excu for 1 lack links to \t Tl squa evet; the s Kabl decic rewa Tl Durr wasn ,. ' (east ·!} ( they Tb howe wher scra;r Ot Mike AI' said : varie M<

.. 11J I ,. r·, ; • CONCORDIENSIS, Wednesday, May 24, 1972 5 By 'l.es Kernan 'SAY IT AIN'T SO JOE!t: Coach Lawrence removes Joe Urschel from RPI game in .eighth inning. Urschel pitched well in the heat but was touched for his first loss in eight starts. By Les Kernan By Jon PhiUpsoJl ANGUlSHED: . Gene Quirk and Mickey Peng Coach Al/ispn's squad preparing to take the field before the RPI Lacrrft.Jse match. J J•' I Go/£~~~~,·Rinish 1 ~8 in \D ~·. -l ()' \ rre 1m 1 ~or ;:,ummer by KRAM LEDNIM After batting at a .Ill clip the Union College Golf team hung up their clubs for the spring. Acting spokesman John Quirk had no excuses for the squad's showing. He called the sport a \preliminary for the summer\ and noted that due to the poor weather and the lack of practice in the pre-season, (several of the other area linksmen head south for pre-spring activities) the boys were unable to \turn on the gas.\ Scrambled Eggs The starting lineup looked something like this year's Siena hoop squad (or the head-coaching job for that matter) - a new face every time out. Part of the reason for this was that two members of the starting unit called it quits part way through the season - Paul · Kabb headed to the pitching mound for Fiji and Big Bob Gronauer decided teaching the little ladies of the game a few tips was more rewarding than playing in the rain. The resulting scramble looked like what happened to H urnpty Dumpty before all the kingsmen carne. King Tony Heading the squad was the quintet of JQ, King Faga, (no he wasn't elected president of the team), Scotty Palmer, Bob Fillmore, (east), and Gary Friedman. Friedman turned in the lowest care of the year with a Mohawk-Golf-Course-scored 76 versus Hobart. The only team that feU to this stouty crew was Plattsburgh, however the team was never outclassed save for the Oswego match where the NCAA regional runner~;~ps made mincemeat out of ou~ scrappy swingers. Other members of the team who occasioned the line-up were Mike Rubel!, Mike Schaefer, and Bill Adzit. Although 1-8 talks clearly enough· for itself, one good point can said for the boys. They were fairly consistent and their scores never varied much from one anothet. Maybe next year Coach Scanlon? Fiji Over DPhi in Playoffs lnd's Fall to PsiU Bats by STICK MANUS scored the final run on a hit by The teams vying for softball Chris O'Neill, then bore down honors finally found a place to and retired the Independents play yesterday and now two of over the last two frames. For the them are sorry that this discovery disappointed Independents, it was ever made. The first of these was a case of a good defense teams was the Independents, being less than the best offense. which fell to Psi U by a score of D Phi Falls, 3-2 4-l: This victory gave Psi U the An identical situation National League title. prevailed on the makeshift Fiji now moves on to play Sigma Chi for the American League title. In their initial meeting, Sigma Chi was the winner by a 6.-3 margin. The winner of that contest will play Psi U for the Fraternity League crown. Action in this . .AL-NL playoff will commence on Monday, May 29; at 4l45 on Library Field. FINAL STANDINGS Throughout the early going, diamond of Daly Field as the the game was a pitcher's duel, as league's best defense, Delta Phi, Torn Combs of the Independents came up punchless and was locked horns with Psi U's Pete ousted from contention by Fiji; 3- Fiji Kircher. Combs yielded only one 2. As was the case in the Psi U- · Sig Chi hit over the first four innings, independents contest, the D Phi while. Alex Utecht's two-base hit excellent pitching can be held and Herb Reichenbach's run- responsible for the low scoring. .833 - American League 5-1 4-1 .soo .667 .600 .333 .250 4-2 scoring single provided the right- D Phi's offensive show was bander with a 1-0 lead. Olaf Neilsen, who homered for However, Combs ; succumbed the first run, then reached third to the deluge in the fifth as Psi U on an error in the fourth and scored all four of its runs. A hit scored the final D 'Phi run. Fiji, and an error put two men on. after trailing early in the game, base ahead of Doug Warner, capitalized on an outfield who promptly singled in the misplay to score two runs in the tying run. A sacrifice and an fourth. In the following inning, unusual call of catcher's they bunched three singles for the interference filled the bases for winning run, with second- Emo Martin, who delivered yet baseman Gary Lynch delivering another clutch blow for two the game-winning shot. Theta Delt DU Phi Sig Phi Delt Faculty 3-2 1-2 1-3 l-4 1-5 .200 .167 I~ 2~ 3 3Y.i 4 National League Psi U In d's D Chi KA AD Phi Beta Sig Phi Chi Psi 5-0 1.000 5-I .8S3 4-2 .667 2-1 .667 1-3 .250 3~ 1-3 .250 3h 1 1-3 .250 3Y.i 1-5 .167 4Y.i more runs. Pitcher Kircher, who RPI, 10-6 Union Nine Loses 4-3 Continued from Page 4 assist to his credit. Dave \the Golden Jet,\ (alias Paul Houk) Hochshartner gave Coach Allison something to think about for next year, as the ::;ophornore from Long Island put 3 tallies on the board. Mark Sanderson and Harry Garabedian each had two goals, and Bobby Grossman and Stan each had one. Although Syracuse scored 12 times, B- More was stiU tough in the nets as he made 17 saves. In the J. V. contest, the Garnet made It a sweep over Syracuse I 2- 10, Bert Dingley had two goals for the squad. Well, it's over. After last year, a lot of people were looking for a winning campaign. Coach Alliso.n and his team have to be disappointed, but if a couple of breaks in those close games had gone their way .... The seniors will be missed next year. The 2 leading scorers on this year's club, Mark Sanderson and Barry Gross are leaving, as are the 4 key defensemen and B-More. There's a lot of young talent which will all be back next year. With a couple of good freshmen, who knows how next year might turn out? Rumor has it that the \Wild Bear\ who scored two goals for Lexington in his latest effort, is Garnet bound. MARATHON ON DIAMOND Attention softball players of the College community! The incredible, undefeated team from second floor Davidson, ·south wing is continuing a one year old Utrion tradition by taking on all challengers this Friday, starting at 11:30 p.m. Athletic pursuits will be tempered by the presence of beer and other refreshments. Those teams wishing to sign up for games during this marathon should contact Pete Weiss (259 Davidson) at 370-0651. CHALLENGE! Team 12 from fourth floor West in the Independent softball league is undefeated and wishes to play the winners of the other · divisions. If any team wants a playoff, contact Greg Sullivan or .Bob Carney. .Heck's Travel Bureau Inc. No Service Ch~r2e t~ 2 Locations DOWNTOWN 149 Barrett St., Ph. 346-3431 MOHAWK MALL Ph. 370·0g24 Continued from Page 4 In the eighth. Unionhanded RPI the eventual winning run on a silver platter. Van Deusen was hit by a pitch, moved up on an error; and with two out, scored on Bobby Bernhardt's two-base throwing error. Although not normally the orthodox play, Bernhardt was in a good position to tag the slow Van Deus en who had run right up to Bob when he fielded the grounder and was stopped in his tracks. In the bottom of the ninth Union woke up to the fact that the game was RPI's if they did not score. Too Little, Too Late Skip Lega ripped a single, and Scotty Burns went in to run for him. Westbrook laced another single and Burns risked his life by stretching for third-but h~ made it safely on a poor throw as Westbrook backed into second'. Union was in good position to j score big, but Lauver who had I already come through . twice grounded out, (scoring Burns.\ i and subbing first baseman Pet..: · Feaman flew out (scoring Westbrook). *********** LACROSSE STATS Scoring M. Sanderson R. Grossmann B. Gross D. Walker S. White D. Hochschartner H. Garabedian R. Eichinger P. Miller D. Demuth D. Kline M. Deshler M. Fine T. Steckman Union Opposition G A Tot. 15 19 34 16 14 30 26 3 29 15 5 20 II 8 19 6 2 8 6 0 6 2 3 5 3 0 3 I 2 3 2 0 2 I 0 I 0 l 0 I I 105 57 162 87 * * >I< * * * * Goaltending B. Erlandsoh M. Peng G Saves A~. ·II 142 12.9 2 8 4.0 Pinch-hitter Steve Andrews lined a hard shot into the gap in left-center but Waltsak put it away for the victory. Joe Urschel was tagged for his .first loss and finished the season at an impressive 7-1. Joe led the squad in K's striking out 22 men. Mitchell, who had the best E.R.A. on the team with a 1.0 I average, got the win Friday giving up only four singles whtle fanning four. Mitch had 21 K's for the year. Union scored all it needed in the first inning with the big blow a triple by Rick Arons. Arons finished the year with a- lean-leading .440 average and 17 RBI's. Last Wednesday Joe !Urschel fanned eight in pitching a five-hit shutout over Middlebury. Ronnie Westbrook had two RB.I's and Greg Breedlove doubled twice. MCAT-DAT-GRE LSAT-ATGSB NAT'L. BDS. * Preparation tor tests required for admission to graduate and profes- sional schools * Six and twelve session courses * Small groups * Voluminous material for home study prepared by experts in each field * Lesson schedule can be tailored to meet individual needs. * Opportunity for review of past lessons via tape at the center Summer Sessions Special Compact Courses Weekends- lntersessions STANLEY H. KAPLAN EDUCATIONAL CENTERLTD. 1675 Eost 161h Stret Brooklyn, N. Y (212) 236-5300. u (516) 538-4555 DAYS. EVENINGS, WEEKENDS SINCE 1938. . Boston· • Ph1la~ • Washington • Detrqi1 • LM: Ango1es • Miami The Tutori~~SSchool with the Naltonwtde Repulotion LUIGJ'S RESTAURANT I SPECIALIZING IN lfalial'il ... American Food 112~ BARRi;:'IT ST. Schenectady Dl 6-9744 Enjoy Sizzling· Steaks and Chops Visit Our Coi::ktoil Bor . .

6 CONCORDIENSJS, Wednesday, May 24, 1972 Hey Kids, What Time Is It ? A TELEVISION WINDFALL CONCORDY TELEVISION SPECIAL For lack of anything better to do one night last week, an editorially commissioned, blue ribbon panel of media experts set about to draw up an all- time prime time line-up of television programs of the last twenty years. Their deliberations, fruitful and otherwise, resulted in the all-star schedule preseated below. The commission, in its wisdom, also turned in Best Actor and Actress lists which appear .further down the page. It should be noted, that placing every program in its specific timeslot was practically impossible, except in obvious places. The Best lists, for the most part, were given in alphabetica'l order to avoid crushed egos.. .EJ\1\·ard R. Jfurruv., Now. in See It The panel, hea;<:led by the co-chairmen of the Ken Osmond Fan Club, Barry Gross and Mike Meserole, also included;. Kevin Clowe, Mark Campbell, Bob Michaelson, Emerson Martin, John Quirk, Rick Arons, Bob Bernhardt, Phil Johnson, a·nd Steve Manus. As is the custom with blue ribbon commissions, their report should be read and ignored. Raymond Burr as lawyer Perry Mason. All-TilDe Pri10e TilDe SUNDAY NIGHT Backup 7:00 The Bullwinkle Show Lassie 7:30 The Jack Benny Program You Are There 8:00 ~The Ed Sullivan Show ~Wah Disney 8:30 9:00 ] ] The Smothers Bros. 9:30 ]Bonanza ] Comedy Hour 10:00 ~The Rogues Candid Camera 10:30 What's My Line? 11:30 Late Movie: Sherlock Holmes Late· Movie: C. Chan MONDAY NIGHT Backup 7:00 News: Walter Cronkite Topper 7:30 ~Maverick ~Wagon Train 8:00 8:30 f\1-Squad Mary Tyler Moore 9:00 Peyton Place The Real McCoys 9:30 Dragnet N.Y.D.D. 10:00 ~Mr. Novak ~I Spy 10:30 11:30 The Tonight Show, Starring Steve Allen fUESDA Y NIGHT Backup 7:00 News: See It Now Car 54 7:30 Mr. Peepers Our Miss Brooks 8:00 Dobie Gill!s Burns & Allen 8:30 jThe Ernie Kovacs Show ~.Garry Moore Show 9:00 9:30 You' Bet Your Life $64,000 Question 10:00 ~The Fugitive ~·Alfred Hitchcock 10:30 11:30 The David Fros.t Show WEDNESDAY NIGHT Backup 7:00 News: Huntley-Brinkley I Love Lucy 7:30 McHale's Navy Ozzie & Harriet 8:00 All in the Family Father Knows Best 8:30 Sgt. Bilko He&She 9:00 ~Columbo ~The Invaders 9:30 10:00 ~Naked City ~Riverboat 10:30 11:30 The Tonight Show, Starring Jack Paar THURSDAY NIGHT Backup 7:00 7:30 8:00 8:30 9:00 9:30 News: Eyewitness N ewsteam F. Troop Leave it to Beaver The Goldbergs The Dick Van Dyke Show My World & Welcome The Honeymooners The Life of Riley ~The Untouchables ~Combat! Gary Moore Show; 3) Ann B. Davis (\Schultzy\), Love That Bob; 4) Valerie Harper, The Mary Tyler Moore Show; 5) Gertrude Hoffman (\Mrs. Odetts\) My Little Margie; 6) Sheila James (\Zelda\), Dobie Gillis; 7) Anne Jeffreys, Trooper; 8) Zazu Pitts, Oh! Susanna; 9) Vivian Vance, I Love Lucy; 10) Tuesday Weld, Dobie Gillis. DRAMA Best Actors: 10:00 ] 10 : 30 ] East Side/ West Side 11:30 The Dick Cavett Show FRIDAY NIGHT 7:00 News: Smith-Reasoner 7:30 ] 8 :00 ]Wild, Wild West 8:30 ] !):OO ] Star Trek !):30 Twilight Zone 10:00 ] 10 : 30 ] 77 Sunset Strip 11:30 The Tonight Show, Starring Johnny Carson SATURDAY NIGHT 7:00 Rin Tin Tin 7:30 Wanted~Dead or Alive 8:00 ] 8 : 30 ] Your Show of Shows 9:00 ] 9 :3o ] Perry Mason 10:00 1 lO:JO ] Gunsmoke 11:30 Chiller Theater ~Dr, Kildare Backup Highway Patrol Hogan's Heroes The Millionaire ln, hid~·· .. l . -~~w ~:r:;;;.e;; · \ _ :~r~t:~t· ,:t:?l' \•t\.1 Tliat Was The Week r ... ] Ma~ fron1; U.N,~,;L.E. Backup ~Secret Agent ~The Defenders ·1Have Gun-Will Travel ~Mr. Lucky Creature Features !:'the/ and Fred Mert:: (Virion Vancl' and William Frall'ley) drop hy to \'isit .wmefriends. 1) Richard Boone, Have Gun - Will Travel; 2) Raymond Burr, Perry Mason; 3) Peter Falk, Columbo; 4) James Garner, Maverick; 5) Ben Gazzara, Run For Your Life; 6) Jon Hall, Ramar of the Jungle; 7). David Janssen, The Fugitive; 8) Lee Marvin,' M-Squad; 9) Darren McGavin, Riverboat; 10) Patrick McGoohan, Secret Agent; 11) Steve McQueen, Wanted - Dead or Alive; 12) Vic Morrow, Combat! 13) George C..· Scott, East Side/ West Side; 14) Robert Stack, The Untouchables; · j) Jack Warden, N. Y. P. D. The late Dan Blocker and the departed Pernell Roberts join Ben and Little Joe Cartwright on a visit to Virginia City. COMEDY Best Actors: I) William Bendix, The L[le of Riley; 2) Richard Benjamin, He & She; 3) Jack Benny, The Jack Benny Program; 4) George Burns, The Burns and Allen Show; 5) Sid Caesar, Your Show ol Shows; 6) Leo G. Carroll, Topper; 7) Wally Cox. Mr. Peepers; 8) Jackie Gleason, The Honeymooners; 9) Ernie Kovacs, The Ernie Kovacs Shor:; 10) Tim Moore (\Kingfish\), Amos 'n\ Andy; II) Carroll O'Connor, All in the Famizr; 12) Soupy Sales, The Soupy Sales Show; 13) Phil Silvers, Sgt. Bilka; 14) Dick Van Dyke, The Old Dick Van Dyke Show; 15) Jack Weston, The Hathaways. Best Actresses: I) Gracie Allen, The Burns and Allen Show; 2) Eve Arden, Our Miss Brooks; 3) Lucille Ball, I Love Lucy; 4) Imogene Coca, Your Show of Shows; 5) Joan Davis, I Married Joan; 6) Barbara Feldon, Get Smart; 7) Phyllis Kirk, The Thin Man; 8) Audrey Meadows, The Honeymooners; 9) Mary Tyler Moore, The Mary Tyler Moore Show; 10) Paula Prentice, He & She; II) Irene Ryan, The Beverzr Hillhillies; 12) Jean Stapleton, All in the Family; 13) Gale Storm. My Little Margie; 14) Ann Southern, Suzy; 15) Jane Wyatt, Father Knows Best. Best Supporting Actors: I) Eddie \Rochester\ .\nderson, The Jack Benny Program; 2) Edward Asner, The Mary Tyler Moore Shov.:; 3) Hugh Beaumont, !.Rave it to Beaver; 4) Art Carney, The Honeymooners; 5) Jack Cassidy, ( .. Jetman\) He & She; 6) Bob Denver (\Maynard G. Krebbs\) Dobie Gillis; 7) William Frawley, I Love Lucy; 8) Maurice Gosfield (\Doberman'\ Sgt. Bilko; 9) Billy Gray, Father Knows Bes.t; 10) Werner Klemperer (\Col. Klink\) Hogan's Heroes; ll) Don Knotts, The Andy Griffith Show; 12) Louie Nye, The Steven Allen Show; 13) Ken Osmond (\Eddie Haskell\) !.Rave it to Beaver; 14) Jack Sao, Valentine's Day; 15) Larry Storch, F-Troop. Best Supporting Actresses: I) Barbara Billingsley, Leave it to Beaver; 2) Carol Burnett, The Best Actresses: 1) Barbara Bain, Mission: Impossible; 2). Gladys Cooper, Maurice Gosfield as Private Doberman in Sgt. Bilko. The Rogues; 3) Gail Davis, Barbara Hale, Perry Mason; 4) Annie Oakley; 4) Mia Farrow, Barbara Hershey, The Monroes; Peyton Place; 5) Susan 5) Margot Kidder, Nichols; 6) Hamshire, The Forsythe Sag(!; 6) Noel Neill (\Lois Lane\) The Glenda Jackson, Elizabeth R; 7) Adventures of Superman; 7) Ida Lupino, Mr. Adams and Eve; Joanna Pettet, Trials of O'Brian;· 8) Diana Rigg, The Avengers; 9) 8) Dorothy Provine, The Minerva Urecal, Tugboat Annie; Roaring 20's; 9) Susan St. James, 10) Elizabeth Wilson, East The Name of the game; 10) Side/ West Side. Connie Stevens (' 1 Cricket''), Best Supporting Actors: Hawaiian Eye. 1) Ben Alexander, Dragnet; 2) X. Brands, Yancy Derringer; 3) Ten Best theme Shows: Edd \Kookie\ Byrnes, 77 Sunset 1) Car 54, Where Are You? 2) Strip; 4) Clint Eastwood, Dragnet; 3) Looney Tunes; 4) Rawhide; 5) Ross Martin; Mr. Mr. Lucky; 5) Peter Gunn; 6) Lucky; 6) Raymond Massey, Dr. Route 66; 7) Secret Agent; Kildare; 7) David McCallum, S) T.H.E. Cat; 9) The Mickey U N C L . E b Mouse Club; l 0) Victory at Sea. Man from . . ... ; ,o) Th F. T Marvin Miller (\Michael e Top ive V Animals: Anthony\) The Millionaire; 9) l) Cleo, The People's Choice; Barry Morse, The Fugitive; lO) 2) Lance link, Lance/or Link, Leonard Nimoy, Star Trek; .J 1). Secret Chimp; 3) Lassie, Lassie; · Warren Oates, Stony Burke; 12) 4 J Mister Ed, Mister Ed; 5) Rin Pernell Roberts, Bonanaza; 13) Tin Tin, The Adventures of Rin Jay Silverheels, The Lone Tin Tin. ' Ranger; 14) William Tallman, Twenty Best Kiddie Shows: . .Perry Mason; 15) Dennis I) Andy's Gang; 2) Betty Weaver, Gtmsmoke. Boop; 3) The Bugs,Bunny Show BestSupportingActresses: (including Tweedie and 1) Lola Albright, Peter Gunn; .RoadruiiiJer); 4) Qyi.G.Jl.. <:;argg; 5) 2) Amanda Blake, Gunsmoke; 3) Continued on )Page 8 •· I I I ,, ' \1 ... .<I J ' ' ( . tl ·• ) ;' . I) (· - '1 sat Cll tw' Ta pel anc 27 at : a 1 the bri inr :be on asl ea( the ea( a 1 th~ 4 wil -c>-< To Wm be j1 neat abili code: con disti Prof Felo Biljk hurl ques they tenii in cit r- t ' • • f t L-

ti '~ ( ' ,. .~ J . .: ) -, ' ·• CONCORDJF:NS/S, Wednesday, Mll.l' 24, 1972 7 ( .· ; ,· . Mickey Mouse 'Disnetia 'On Thurs. \Disiletia a musical-comedy satire using \Mickey Mouse Club\ characters and written by two Union seniors Pete Tarshis ··and Mark Boylan, will be performed this Thursday, Friday, and Saturday, May 2~. 26, and 27 in the Nott Memorial Theater at 8 p.m. The theater will become a multi-media stUdio, and since the playis in bad taste, do not bring children. Gee Wli.iz (:ontests The creators of \Disnetia the innocent musical f roiic that will be presented at Nott Memorial on May 25-27, are almost ashamed to announce that before each performance of the play there will be a different contest; each will be in bad taste and have a tenuous relation to the drama that will follow. On Thursday, May 24, there will be the \Student Most Likely party and an AAA Triptik from Schenectady to Disney World. Prospecti¥e contestants should sign up ·at any time before Thursday at N ott MemoriaL On Friday May 25, the winner of the essay contest will be announced, aad the prize- winning essay will be read. The essay is entitled, \I always wanted to make love to Annette because ... \ All entries must be 25 words more or less, and cannot mention breasts; however, any substitute for ''make love\ is acceptable. the judges have not yet been named, but it is hoped there will be representatives from the English and. Psychology Departments. Prizes include an invitation to the cast party and a souvenir falsie. Submit ail essays to Nott Memorial before friqay. Saturday's featured contest will be the \Mickey Mouse Look- Alike\ contest. All students and · Jimmie Dodd and the Mouseketeers. BSA Plans Weekend The Black Student Alliance of Union College is presenting a weekend of activities this Friday and Saturday. Friday night, the BSA will sponsor its· second annual Black Talent Show, featuring young performers from th:-oughout the Capital District. The show, set for 8 p.m. in Memorial Chapel and open free to the public, will feature music, poetry, · dFama, and dance, and four cash prizes wHl be awarded to performers by a panel of judges. Afterwards, there will be a band party in Davids,on, featuring Genesis. Saturday · night, the Black Spectrum Theater Group will appear in· Memorial Chapel, performing skits, dances, and songs. The show is set for 9 p.m., and there will be a $1 admission fu. A ~rty ~u ~ h~ afterwards. ***** The Plight Of Ed Kano,witz Continued from Page 1 couldn't let him drown. Incredibly, Cambridge seemed to gain his second wind and vault out of the water and on to land. (when interviewed afterwards Cambridge recollected that he was only researching ·an oceanography paper and there was no cause for alarm.) My immediate reaction was relief that the dog was fine, however I had to get my boat back. As I turned to retrieve my vessel I was caught m a tremendous undertow and suddenly everything went black. I thought, \Holy Shit, it's all over\ as I remembered that I must be in the culvert whose opening I had noticed freshman year. My initial reaction was that I had never thought it would happen this way. True, I had always had the premonition that I would die at an early age; but drowning in a sewer was too much. I was being hurled down this dark passageway at what seemed to be an incredible velocity.· I was waiting for the first process of drowning, blacking out, to occur so I would not have to think The Eaty Gourmet~ Rotterdam Fair Back in the days when Rotterdam's favorite son Jim Tedisco thought that a dribble was just something that ran down his bib, the Rotterdam Fair was already an established tradition among Union men. Under the auspices of the Rotterdam volunteer fire dept., the Fair is staged every year during a week in May. lt might be argued by some, and understandably so, that reviewing a fair is a bit out of line for the Eaty Gourmets. After all, what kind of epicurean pleasures could one .possibly find there? Quite frankly, the Rotterdam Fair has over the years presented Union men with a number of appetizing dishes that are wort11y of mention. Among the more prominent taste delights to be found on the Fair grounds are the classic candy apples. For years these delicious apples on a stick have been painstakingly prepared by Gino Garabaldi, an Italian wino from the Bronx, especially for the Fair. In recent years Gino has bought out neighboring cotton candy and sno-cone stands thus making him one of the largest Junk Food retailers on the fair circuit. Candy apples, however, remain his staple item and Gino is happy to report that business is booming. Peanuts & Popcorn Peanuts and popcorn are favorites at all fairs. and the Rotterdam Fair is no different. While they may skimp on quantity there are no holds barred with respect to quality. At the Rotterdam Fair the peanuts and popcorn are every bit as good as can be found on the sidewalks of New York, and we mean on the sidewalks. If you like to eat peanuts at the fair go to the Peanut Store on State St. beforehand and fill up. Your stomach will thank you. One section that we urge our readers to avoid at all costs is the hot dog stand near the entrance to the Fair. Never in our extensive travels around the world in search of the supreme gastronomic treat have we ever encountered such rot. If you dig grease all that much you might as well buy a can of Crisco and stay home and stuff your face. It's cheaper and probably better for you. Despite the ample selection of taste tantalizers that can be found at the Fair, such as the aforementioned goodies, there exist some Union men who long for something a bit more exotic. For those who think of more than just food whey they go to the Fair there is plenty. Game booths that are virtually guaranteed to rip you off and rides that break down on a regular basis can be found everywhere. And then, of course, off beyond the kiddie attractions are the strip shows which we have appropriately dubbed \sleaze row\. These anatomical exhibitions seem ideally suited to the typical deprived Union man. vintage 1965. For just $2.00. a mere pittance to the famished pervert, you can vicariously and sometimes even actua'lly satisfy your libidinal instincts. Unfortunately, displays of r\\\\h are the essence of the A had reilctiun ji-o111 Ho/lerclatll Fair peanuts. Rotterdam Fair tradition at Union. Well, that pretty much seems to be the &tory on eating out in Rotterdam. The Fair may be over this year but memories of times had there will most assuredly linger in the minds, and in some cases on the taste buds, of many Union men until next year. Next week, in the final Concordy, be sure to look for the Eaty Gourmets long awaited disclosure of Schenectady's premier dining spot. To Be Employed At Disney World\ contest. Contestants will be judged on cuteness, prettiness, neatness, affability, and the ability to project a strong moral code. There will be a talent contest in which the distinguished panel of judges, Prof. David Stineback and Felons Mark Phillippo, Harvey Biljk, and John Nicolais, will hurl vulgar and obscene questions at the contestants, and they must be answered with even- tempered friendliness. Prizes include an invitation to the cast faculty who feel they bear a striking resemblance to the world's most famous rodent should sign up immediately at Nott Memorial. Prizes include. the omnipresent invitation to the cast party and another prize so valuable that the Security Police have asked us not to name it for fear that some malcontents may rip it off. about dying anymore. It was --~----------------------­ One final note: the authors of \Disnetia\ have stated that no person will be admitted if he or she did not cry when Bambi's mother died. r~~~~t.O'>~~ about this time that I was turned around and slammed into a bulkhead, and hit the onty air pocket in the tube. I had time for only a quick breath as the current drove me onward. Although, I had no idea of where the tube· would end I proceeded . on, judging that taking the chance of ending up in the Mohawk River was a more feasible alternative than waiting to drown. Like a Plane Crash Peter Pause Restaurant § Suddenly, the black water was ·§ turning lighter and for the first § time I regained the hope given up a long way back. Suddenly, I was thrown out into daylight and 53.5 Nott· Street r-----~-~----~~-~, t FERRO • ' Ph • : · · armacy : f FOUNTAIN SERVICE Onebloek from f t Browneii·Gate t -· FR ?-OSlO · 575 Nott Street ~-~~~~~~~-------~~ landed on wet, hard concrete which was the best feeling I can ever recall. A voice rang out .. what the hell are you doing in there?\ It was a Dept. of Public Works workman with a large The identificatfon cards issued this year are of the permanent variety and should be retained for use next year. The same card will be in effect · and validated at . registration time. It is .intended that cards wiD be issued only for .new students, but lost cards may be replac:ed in the faD by payment of a fee. hook fishing out debris, \Would you please help me out sir?\ I pleaded. Obviously, he did not regard me as debris so I made my own way out into the crowd that had gathered thinking I was gone. Bob Pezzano summed up the atmosphere saying that, \it was like running to a plane crash that a friend was on.\ Afterward I was asked many questions and provided many answers, but what was most pressing on rrty mind was that I had been confronted by death, knew what it felt like, and how l survived I don't know. I'm just glad to be able to reminisce. BEFORE KANOWITZ: Several brave Dutchmen ready their sturdy craft for The Brook That Bounds.

') •. .... ·'• ·< I ' CONCORD!F.NS!S, Wednesda_r, Mar 24, 1972 7 Mickey Mouse 'Disnetia 'On Thurs. \Disnetia a musical-comedy satire using \Mickey Mouse Club\ characters and written by two Union seniors Pete Tars his ··and Mark Boylan, will be performed this Thursday, Friday, and Saturday, May 25, 26, and 27 in the Nott Memorial Theater at 8 p.m. The theater will become a multi-media studio, and since the play is in bad taste, do not bring children. Gee Whiz Contests The creators of \Disnetia the innocent musical frolic that will be presented at Nott Memorial on May 25-27, are almost ashamed to annouHce that before each performance of the play there wiN be a different contest; each will be in bad taste and have a tenuous relation to the drama that will follow. On Thursday, May 24, there wiN be the \Student Most Likely party and an AAA Triptik from Schenectady to Disney World. Prospective contestants should sigrr up at any time before Thursday at Nott Memorial. On Friday May 25, the winner of the essay contest wil'l be am1ounced, and the prize- winning essay will be read. The l!ssay is entitled, \I always warrted to make love to Annette because ... \ All entries must be 25 words more or less, and cannot mention breasts; however, any substitute for \make love\ is acceptable. The judges have not yet been named, but it is hoped there will be representatives from the English and Psychology Departments. Prizes include an invitation to the cast party and a souvenir falsie. Submit all essays to Nott Memorial before Friday. Saturday's featured contest will be the \Mickey Mouse Look- Alike\ coHtest. All students and Jimmie Dodd and the Mouseketeers. To Be Employed At Disney World\ contest. Contestants will be judged on cuteness, prettiness, neatness, affability, and the ability to project a strong moral code. There will be a talent contest in which the distinguished panel of judges, Prof. David Stineback and Felons Mark Phillippe, Harvey Bilik, and John N icolais, will hurl vulgar and obscene questions at the contestants, and they must be answered with even- tempered friendliness. Prizes include an invitation to the cast faculty who feel they bear a striking resemblance to the world's most famous rodent should sign up immediately at Nott Memorial. Prizes include . the omnipresent invitation to the cast party and another pri?e so valuable that the Security Police have asked us not to name it for fear that some malcontents may rip it off. One final note: the authors of ''Disnetia\ have stated that no person will be admitted if he or she did not cry when Bambi's mother died. 'r.Q>CQ><Q><.Q><Q>~~<O'>~<Q>~~~t.Q>~ f Peter Pause ~ Restaurant ! 535 Not t Street i ~,~~~~~~~~,~~~~~~~~~~·~ r----------------, 1 fhERRO : : P armacy 1 f FOUNTAIN SERVICE One block from f A Brownell Gate t ' FR ?-OSlO 575 Nott Street L-----------~----J BSA Pla~ns Weekend The Eaty GourmetJ Rotterdam Fair The Black Student A..J:liance of Union CoHege is presenting a weekend of :1ctivities this Friday and Saturday. Friday aight, the BSA will sponsor its second annual Black Talent Show. featuring ~oung performers from th:oughout the Capital District. The show, ~et for 8 p .. rn. in Memorial Chapel and open free to the public, wi'H feature m usi<:. poetry, drama, and da11ce. and four cash prizes wiU be a wa rd:ed to performers by a panel of judges. Afterwards, there wiU be a band party in Davi,dson, featuring Genesis. Saturday night, the Bhtck Spectrum Theater Group will appear in Memorial ChapeL performing skits, dances. arrd soRgs. The show is set for 9 p.m .. and there will be a $1 admission fee. A party will be held afterwards. ***** The P'light Of Ed Kanowitz Back rn the days when Rotterdam's favorite son Jim Tedisco thought that a dribble was just something that ran down his bib, the Rotterdam Fair was already an established tradition among Union men. Under the auspices of the Rotterdam volunteer fire dept., the Fair is staged every year during a week in May. lt might be argued by some. and understandably so, that reviewing a fair is a bit out of line for the Eaty Gourmets. After all, what kind of epicurean pleasures could one possibly find there? Quite frankly, the Rotterdam Fair has over the years presented Union men with a number of appeti1ing dishes that are worthy of mention. Among the more prominent taste delights to be found on the Fair grounds are the classic candy apples. For years these delicious apples on a stick have been painstakingly prepared by Gino Garabaldi, an Italian wino from the Bronx, especially for the Fair. In recent years Gino has bought out neighboring cotton candy and sno-cone stands thus making him one of the largest Junk Food retailers on the fair circuit. Candy apples, however. remain his staple item and Gino is happy to report that business is booming. Peanuts & Popcorn Peanuts and popcorn are favorites at all fairs and the Continued from Page I couldn't let him drown. Incredibly, Cambridge seemed to gain his second wind and vault out of the water and on to land. (when interviewed afterwards Cambridge recollected that he was only researching an Rotterdam Fair is no different. oceanography paper and there was no cause for alarm.) While they may skimp on My immediate reaction was quantity there are no holds relief that the dog was fine, barred with respect to quality. At however I had to get my boat the Rotterdam Fair the peanuts and popcorn are ever_v hit as back. As I turned to retrieve mv · good as can he found on the vessel I was caught r n a sidewalks of New York. and \\e tremendous undertow and suddenly everything went black. I mean on the sidewalks. If you thought. \Holy Shit, it's all like to eat peanuts at the fair go over\ as I remembered that 1 to the Peanut Store on State St. must be in the culvert who!ie beforehand and fill up. Your stomach will thank _vou. opening I had noticed freshman year. My initial reaction was that One section that we urge ()Uf readers to avoid at all costs is the I had never thought it would happen this way. True, l had always had the premonition that I would die at an early age~ but drowning in a sewer was too much. I was being hurled down this dark passageway at what seemed to be an incredible velocity. I was waiting for the first process of drowning, blacking out, to occur hot dog stand near the entrance to the Fair. Never in uur extensive travels around the world in search of the supreme gastronomic treat have we ever encountered such rot. lf you dig grease all that much you might as well b•Jy a can of Crisco and stay home and stuff your face. It's cheaper and probably better for so I would Hot have to think you. Despite the ample selection of taste tantalilers that can be round at the Fair, such as the aforementioned goodies, there exist some Union men who long for something a bit more exotic. For those \o\ho think of more than just food v-.hey they go to the Fair there is plenty. Game booths that are Yirtua lly guaranteed to rip you off and rides that break down on a regular basis can be found evervwhere. And then, of course. off beyond the kiddie attractions are the strip shows which we have appropriately dubbed \sleaze row\. These anatomical exhibitions seem ideally suited to the typical depri\ed l! Rion man, vintage 1965. For just $2.00 a mere pittance to the famished pervert, ymr can vicariously and sometimes e\en actually satisfy your li hidinal instincts. Unfortunately, displays ot r·,,n,-h are the essence of the ·1 hud reu, r iu11 trot// l? J/lcnlani Fa rr f't'l.lllUf 1. Rotterdam f-air tradition at Union. Well, that pretty much seerm ,o he the ~tory on eating out in Rotterdam. The Fair mav he over this year hut memori~s nt times had there will most assuredly linger in the minds, and rn some cases on the taste buds, of many Union men until next year. Next week, rn the final C'oncordy, be sure to look for the Eaty Gourmets long awaited disclosure of Schenectady's premier dining spot. · about dying anymore. It was--------------------------- about this time that I was turned around and slammed int() a bulkhead, and hit the only air pocket in the tube. I had time for only a quick breath as the current drove me onward. Although, I had no idea of where the tube would end I proceeded on, judging that taking the chance of ending up in the Mohawk River was a more feasible alternative than waiting to drown. Like a Plane Crash Suddenly, the black water was turning lighter and for the first time I regained the hope given up a long way back. Suddenly, I was thrown out into daylight and landed on wet, hard concfete which was the best feeling .[ can ever recall. A voice rang out \what the hell are you doin~ in there?\ It was a Dept. of Public Works workman with a large The identificatfon cards issued this year are (){ the permanent variety and should be retained for use next year. The same card will be in effect and validated at registration time. It is intended that cards will be issued only for ruw students, but lost cards may be replaced in the fall' by payment of a fee. hook fishing out debris. \Would you please help me out sir?\ I pleaded. Obviously, he did not regard me as debris so I made my own way out into the crowd that had gathered thinking l was gone. Bob Pezzano summed up the atmosphere saying that, \it was like runniHg to a plane crash that a friend was on.\ Afterward I was asked many quest ions and pro\ ided man)' answers. but what wa~ most pressing on rriy mind was that I had been confronted by death, knew what it felt like, and hov-. l survived I don't kno\\. I'm just glad to be able to reminisce. BEFORE KANOWITZ: Several hral'e Dutchmen ready their sturdy craft for The Brook That Bounds.

CONCORDIENSIS, Wednesday, May 24, 1972 Hey Kids, What Time Is It? A TELEVISION WINDFALL COl'iCORill TELEVISION SPECIAL f·or lad ol an:-thing hetter to do one night last \\t:t:k. an t:ditoriall~ ~:mnrni~>ioned. hluc rihhon panel of media expert; set ahout to dra\\ up an ali- t i lllt: prime tune line-LIp of teJe\·isi on programs of the la;t tv.enty year1. Their deliberations. fruitful and otherwise, resulted in the all-star schedule presented below. !he commission. in its wisdom. also turned in Best Actor and Actress lists which appear further down the page. It should he noted, that placing every program in its specific timeslot was practically impossible, except in ohvious places. The Best lists, for the most part. were given in alphabetical order to avoid crushed egos.. \I urru11 . in Ser It \'()\\-. Th,· panel. hqded hy the co-chairmen of the Ken O;mond Fan Cluh. Harry (iross and Mike Meserole. <tl;o included; Kevin Clowe. Mark Carnpheli. Hoh \!1ichaehon. Emermn Martin. John Quirk. Rick Arom. Boh Bernhardt, Phil Johnson. and SteVL' 1\!l an m. As is the custom with blue ribbon commissions, their report should he read and ignored. Rarrnond Burr as lawyer Pern· Mason. All-Time Prime Time st:NDA Y NIGHT Backup 7:00 The Bullwinkle Show I .assic 7:30 !\he .laL·k Henny Program You Arc There 8:00 ~The Ed Sullivan Show J . 8:30 I Walt Disney 9:00 l 1 The Smothers Bros_ 9:30 ] Bonama l Comedy Hour 10:00 lThe Rogues Candid Camera 10:30 What's My Line'! 11:30 !.ate M ovic: Sherlock H olrnes Late Movie: C Chan MONDAY NIGHT Backup 7:00 News: Walter Cronkite Topper 7:30 ] Maverick l Wagon Train 8:00 l 8:30 M-Squad Mary Tyler Moore 9:00 Peyton Place The Real McCoys 9:30 Dragnet :\f.Y.D.D. 10:00 ~Mr. Novak ll Spy 10:30 11:30 The Tonight Show, Starring Steve Allen fl!ESDA Y NIGHT Rack up 7:00 ;\\ews: See It \:ow Car 54 7:30 Mr. Peeper~ Our Miss Hrook. s 8:00 Dohie Ciilli~ Burns & Allen 8:30 1 ] 9:00 jThe Ernie Kovacs Show J Garry Moore Show 9:30 You' Bet Your Life $64,000 Question ]:0:00 ~The Fugitive ~ Alfred Hitchcock 10:30 11:30 The David Frost Show WEDNESDAY NIGHT Backup 7:00 News: Htmtley-Brinkley I Love Lucy 7:30 McHale's Navy Ozzie & Harriet 8:00 All in the Family Father Knows Best 8:30 Sgt. Bilko He & She 9:00 ~Columbo ~The Invaders 9:30 10:00 JNaked City ~Riverboat 10:30 11:30 The Tonight Show. Starring Jack Paar THURSDAY NIGHT Backup 7:00 7:30 8:00 8:30 9:00 9:30 :\fews: Eyewitness Newsteam F. Troop Leave it to Beaver The Goldbergs The Dick Van Dyke Show My World & Welcome The Honeymooners The Life of Riley JThe Untouchables l Combat! Cary Moure Show; 3) Ann B. Davis (\Schult7y\'), Lu1·e That Boh; 4) Valerie Harper. The .'\.1 an Trier .\.1oure S'how; 5) Ciertrude Hoffman ('\Mrs. Odetts\') .. \.ll· l.iule Jfar!{ie; 6) Sheila James ( .. Zelda\). Dohie Gillis; 7) Anne Jellreys. Trouper; ~) Zalll Pitts. Oh.' Susanna: 9) \\i \'ance. I /_m·e l.zwr; 10) I ue~da) Weld. !Johie Gillis. DRAMA Best Actors: 10:00 ~East Side/ West Side ~Dr. KHdare 10:30 11:30 The Dick Cavett Show FRIDAY NIGHT Backup 7:00 News: Smith-Reasoner Highway Patrol 7:30 ~Wild, Wild West Hogan's Heroes 8:00 The Millionaire 8:30 ~Star Trek ~Rawhide 9:00 9:30 Twilight Zone That Was The Week 10:00 ~ 77 Sunset Strip ] 10:30 ] Man from U.N.C.LE. 11:30 The Tonight Show, Starring Johnny Carson SATURDAY NIGHT Backup 7:00 Rin Tin Tin ~Secret Agent 7:30 Wanted-Dead or Alive 8:00 ~Your Show of Shows ~The Defenders 8:30 9:00 ] ~Have Gun-Will Travel \ ] Perry Mason 9:30 !0:00 ~Gunsmoke ]Mr. Lucky 10:30 ] 11:30 Chiller Theater Creature Features lrhel and Fred \len:: (I n·wn I i//1( c llllil ll\i//i{ml Frmdc1) dror />r ro \'i1i1 \0//11' ti·1enc!l I) Richard Boone. Haw (jun - Will Travel; 2) Ravmond Burr. Perrr Jfa.wn: 3) ·Peter Falk. Columhu; 4) .James Garner. '\.fat·erid: 5) Ren Ganara. Run For rour l.{le: 6) Jon Hall. Ramar o( the Jun!{le; 7) Da\id .I anssen. The Fugitive; l\) Lee Marvin. Jf-Squad; 9) Darren McGavin. Riwrhoat; 10) Patrick McCioohan, Secret Agent; 11) Steve McQueen, Wanted - Dead or Alive; 12) Vic Morrow, Comhat.' 13) George C. Scott, ta.H Side/ West Side; 14) Robert Stack, The Untouchables; )) Jack Warden, N. Y.P.D. The late Dan Blocker and the departed Pernell Rohert.\· iuin Ben and Little Joe Carllt\rif{ht on a \'isit to Vir!{inia City. COMEDY Best Actors: 1) William Bendix. 711e l.i/e ol Riley; 2) Richard Benjamin. He & She: 3) Jack Renny. The Jack Henm· Program; 4) George Hurns. 77u' Burns and A lle11 .<-lho11: )) S1d Cae;.ar. rour Sho11 of Sh01n: n) Leo Ci. Carroll. liJ{I{Ier; 7) \\'a II) Cox. .1./r. Peepen: !\) Jada: Gleason. 11w llonermounen; 9) Ernie Kovac~. 77w Ernie A\o1·an Sho11; 10) Tim Moore (\Kingfish\). Amo1 ·n· And1: II} Carroll O'Connor. All in the Familr; 12) Soupy Sale,. !he Soupr Safe1 Show; lJ) P'hll Sil\t:r~. Sgt. Bi/lw; 14) Da:L. Van Dyke. !he Old 01rk ~·an f)l\ke Show; 15) .lack Weston. The 1/athawar.l. Best Actresses: I) (iracJe Allen. The Burn.1 and Allen .'-!hou; 2) he Arden. Our .\.fis.1 Hruok.1; 3) I.ucille Hall. I l.m·c l.un. 4) I mogcne Coca. >\our Sholl' o( Shot1·1·: 5) Joan Davi~. I Jfamed Joan; li) Barbara hldon, vet Smart; 7) Phyllis Kirk, The Thin Man; 8) Audrey Meadows, The Honermooners; 9) Mary Tyler Moore. The Mary Tvler Moore .\\lum: IU) Paula Prentice. He & She: II) I rene Ryan, ihe Beverlr Hi/lhillie.l; 12) Jean Stapleton. All in the Fami(•·; 13) Gale Storm. Mr Urrle Jfarr.;ie; 14) Ann Southem. Su.::r; 15) Jane Wyatt. Father Anmt·s Best. Best Supporting Actors: I) Eddie \Rochester\ .\nderson. The Jack Bennr ProRram: 2) F dw ard Asner. The .'vlarr Tl\ier /l!oort.' S!u 111; 3) Hugh Beaumont. leare ir to Bt•a\·er; 4) Art Carney. The llmze1·moonen·; 5) .Jack Cassidy. (\.letman'·J. He & She: 6) Bob Denver ( .. Maynard G. Krchhs\) Ool>ie Gilli1; 7) \\'ill iam Frawley. I l.o\'e l.w·y; H) Maurice Ciosfield (\I>oberman''l. Sf;t. Bilko: 9) Rilly Gray. Father A.\no1t·s Be.\t; 10) Werner Klcmperer r·'Col. Klink\). Holan's lleroe.<;; I I) Don Knotts, 77le Amfr Gnf{ith Sho1r: 12) Louie ~yc, Th!! .\>'m•en .41/en Show; 13) Ken Osmond (\Eddie Haskell''). I.em'e it tu Bea1·er; 14) .lack Soo, J \alent inc'.\ Day; 15) Larry Storch, F-Troop. Best Supporting Actresses: I) Rarhara Billingsley, Leaw it to Beatrer; 2) Carol Burnett. The Best Actresses: I) Barbara Bain, /Hission: lrnpussihle; 2) Gladys Cooper. Mauria Gosfield as Private Doherman in Sgt. Bilko. The Rogues; 3) Gail Davis. Barbara Hale, Perry Mason; 4) Annie Oakley; 4) Mia Farrow, Barbara Hershey, The Monroes; Peyton Place; 5) Susan 5) Margot Kidder, Nichols; 6) Hamshire, The Forsythe Saga; 6) Noel Neill (\Lois Lane\) The Glenda Jackson, Elizabeth R; 7) Adventur,!s of Superman; 7) Ida Lupino, Mr. Adams and Eve; Joanna Pettet, Trials of O'Brian;· 8) Diana Rigg, The Avengers; 9) 8) Dorothy Provi.ne, The Minerva Urecal, Tugboat Annie; Roaring 20's; 9) Susan St. James. I 0) Elizabeth Wilson, East The Name of the game; 10) Side/ West Side. Connie Stevens (\Cricket\), Best Supporting Actors: Hawaiian E1·e. I) Ben Alexander, Dragnet; 2) · X. Brands, Yancy Derringer; 3) Ten Best Theme Shows: Edd \Kookie\ Byrnes, 77 Sunset I) Car 54, Where Are You? 2) Strip; 4) Clint Eastwood. Dragnet; 3) Looney Tunes; 4) Rawhide; 5) Ross Martin, Mr. Mr. Lucky: 5) Peter Gunn; 6) Lucky; 6) Raymond Massey, Dr. Route 66: 7) Secret Agent: Kildare; 7) David McCallum. 8) T. H. E. Cat; 9) The Micker Mouse Club; I 0) Victory at Sea . . Man from U. l\'. C. L. E.; 8) Marvin Miller (\Michael The Top Five TV Animals: Anthony\). The Millionaire; 9) I) Cleo. The People's Choice: Barry Morse. The Fugitive; 10) 2 > Lance Link, Lance/at Link. Leonard Nimoy, Star Trek; II) Secret Chimp; 3) Lassie. Lassie: Warren Oates. Stony Burke: 12) 4 ) Mister Ed, Mister Ed; 5) Rin Pernell Roberts, Bonana::a; 13) Tin Tin, llle Ad\'entures of Rin Tin Tin. . Jay Siherheels, The rone Ran~er; 14) William Tallman, Twenty Best Kiddie Shows: Perry Mason; 15) Dennis 1 ) Andy's Gang; 2) Berty Weaver, Gunsmoke. Boop; 3) The Bugs Bunny Show Best Supporting Actresses: (including Tweedie and I) Lola Albright, Peter Gunn; Roadrunner); 4) .Q!:'t£.1J Cargq_; 5) 2) Amanda Blake, Gunsmoke; 3) Continued on /Page 8 ., <11'· 41 ..• •< .. .. I) - '1 sat Cll (WI Ta pe1 anc 27 at : a 1 the bri mr be on asl eac tht ea< a t th~ c wil -<?'--<: To Wor be j1 neat abili cod<: con disti Prof Felo Bilik hurl ques they temr in elL r- t ' ' t f t L-

8 · CONCORDIENSIS, Wednesday, May 24; 1972 . BLITHER Anyone who has registered for \Contemporary American Fiction\ in the Fall of 1972 must sign up with Prof. Stineback to Tonight, Wednesday, at 8:00 be in the course. There are 32 Continued f~om Page (i p.m. in SS 115, A. Walton Litz, openings left, and you must si.gn Crusatjer Rabbit; 6) Farmer Professor of English at Princeton up by this Friday, May 26, Gray; 7) George of the Jungle; 8) University, will speak on T. S. * * * * Hot Dog; 9) The Howdy boody Eliot's The Waste Land and On Thursday, May 2~, a Show; 10) King Leonardo; ll) · James Joyce's Ulysses. · This contemporary Episcopal Mass Lance Link; 12) The · Little lecture will commemorate the wi-ll be celebrated in the Hale Rascals; 13) The Mickey Mouse 1 · fiftieth anniversary this year of House student lounge at ten Club; 14) Popeye; 15) Rocky and I ... the publication in 1922 of these o'clock in the evening. All are Bullwinkle; l6) Sesame Street; !. two central texts of modern welcome. 17) Supercar; 18) The Three 1··· western literature. * * * * Stooges; 19) Top Cat; 20) Winky ·. Prof. Litz, a graduate of Room in Faculty Home in Dink and You. Princeton and of O·xford and a return for work about the house. Top 13 Daytime Quiz/Gam~/ former Rhodes Scholar, is the Men interested should talk with Greed Shows: author of four books; The Art of Mrs. Huntley, North College. I) Beat the Clock; 2) J~mes. Joyce, .·~· study qf thl! A green *Pe~ge~t bicycle was Concentration; 3) G-E College manusc.~rpt re\tsron~ of Ulyssc> ~tolen from in front of the gate to Bmd; 4) It Could Be You; 5) and fmneoans Wake· Jano 1 . k · . (' ·' . - Jeopardy: 6) Le(s Make a Deal.· _ \' ' ·· ' .ac ·,on., •arul'ns. T uesda v. Austen. The Development of Her ;rhout 5 :00 tu 7 00 P.\1. · 7) .Vame Tha( Tune; 8) Queen/or Art. James Joyce. arr ll anyone has sl'en t·he bicvck a Day; 9) The Dating Game: 10) mtroduct1on to Jo~c~:\ \\or!.. hH \lould they please i.nform the.nl'~ The Price is Right; II) Treasure non-~pe~rali't'; and _thl' rl'centl~ \l\llll!r that thl' bike has great Hunt; 12) Videu Vii/age: 13) puhhshed _Introspective Voyager. ·per,onal value to me. It was Whom Do You Trust? a. study of the poetry of Wallace bought in Europe, and carried The Five Worst Shows Ever: Stevens. At the annual meetmg !me 2000 p'lu. . 1 · E . I) Camp Runamuck; 2) Hank; j . h E . . . . · - · · s m1 es m · urope, as 3 -r 1 Ll o t e .ngh~h lnstrtute this fall. well as countless miles in the ) ,.ze oyd Thaxton Show: 4) Professor Lit7 wrll presrdc at a 'United States. If the new owner . The Survivors; 5) Turn-on! conference . o~ the. poetry and .does not have the decency to News, Sports & Weather: plays of I. S. Eh_ot. Professor return the bicycle, would he Newsmen: Edward R. l;rt7 has taught smce 1957 at please treat it with respect. It's a Murrow; Bill Lawrence; John I nnccton, where he gives an valuable piece of machinery. Cameron Swayze; Charles extremely popular undergraudate 1 Mark Otis. K uralt; Jack Perkins; Harry course in maJor modern Rritish * * * * Reasoner; Robert Trout; Mike :.tnd American writers. The Department of English Wallace; Morley Safer; Walter * * * * picnic is scheduled for this Cronkite; David Brinkley; and Tickets are now on sale at Thursday, May 25th, at the Edward R. Murrow. Good night Student Activities Office for the Girling Center. To sign up, see and good luck. Billy Gray, Robert Young and Jane Wyatt share a TV laugh in Father Knows Best. Sportscasters: Haywood Hate 15 Top Moments in TV Broun; Jim McKay; Keith History: · Jackson; Howard Cesell; Les 1} The Beatles on The Eil Kiter; Mel Allen; Paul Sullivan Show; 2) The final two Christman; Henry Longhurst· episodes of 171e Fugitive; 3) Bud CeHins; Yin Scully: Walter Cronkite's play-by-play of \Whispering Joe\ Wilson; and Man's first step on the moon; 4) Dale long. Edward R. Murrow taking. on Weathermen: Tex Antoine Sen. Joe. McCarthy; 5) Lee (New York); Bob Mills Harvey Oswald's murder; 6) The (Rochester); Mark Rudd (?). Kefauver Crime Committee ~ommentators: Paul Harvey; Hearings; 7) Bill Mazeroski 1960 Enc Sevareid; Gene Shaiit (New Werld Series winning home run; .June 8th Senior Class Day. Mrs. Gleason in the Humanities It has long been a tradition of office and pay $1.00 if coming Union College's Senior Class to alone, $2;00 if bringing a friend. present a class day shortly before : The picnic begins around 2:30 graduation. However, two years · p.m. and should run until 6:30 ago the picnic was cancelled p.m. - or later. Beer and soda because of strike activities that and ham and cheese and pretzels occured after the Olmbodian and other like favorites will be invasion. Last year for unknown available in ample quantity. York); Len O'Connor{Chicago). 8} Live film of the sinking of the 1\'\-----~F~O~R---L-/Q......_U_O_R_&_W_l N-· _£ __ :..._......:::..:...---.. · \Andrea Dorea\; 9) Elvis Presley .. on The Ed Sullivan Show~· 1 0) reasons the class day was * * * * forgotten. But this year, in one of Computer Science Majors: its typical bursts of enthusiasm, Reminder of tl:!e picnic scheduled\ the class of 72 is reviving for this Monday, May 29, to tra~ition and sponsoring a begin at 5:00 P.M. up at the picnic, swimming, and_ games at Girling Center ... you should get Girling Center from 1:00 _ 6:00 a flyer this week ... please try to p.m. on the Thursday before get your $1.00 donation to Mrs. graduation. Tickets are $3.00 per Dodge in the Computer Center person and must be purchased in Office by this Friday, May 26. * * * * advance any afternoon from All students interested in the • Try JAKE LI:PSTEIN'S 464 State Street FR 4-1888 Nusbaum's \Outfi.tters ·to Men andY oungMen\ ·447--451 STATE ST. SCHENECTADY Adlai Stevenson at the U.N. during the Cuban Missile Crisis; II) Ed Ames throwing the tomahawk on The Tonight Show; 12) Abba Eba:n at the U.N. during and after the 1967 · Six Day War; 13) The 1968 Chicago \police riot\; 14) John Glenn's thn;:e orbital space flight; 15) The unscheduled showing of pornographic movies after what a technician thought was sign-off - in: San Diego, 1969. SPECIAL DlSCOUN1' To Union Students GEORGE'S MUSIC STORE 509 State Street Mrs. Marra or Kate White. winter term abroad program in I The festivities will include all Israel a·re urged to see Prof. Berk the food and beer the Senior in SS 2DA within the next two Class can consum~: and k :·:::::::::::;~j~·~-~~-~-;·~~·;·~~~;·~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ wee s. numerous awards, such as the · ' legendary pipe and jug, will be presented to deserving Seniors. * * * * Maps for the Engineering picnic to Thatcher Park may be picked up in the EE office. We will he leaving from behind the Engineering Building at 12:00 noon on Saturday. * * * * Wanted: Live-in babysitter staring sometime in June, free room and board and $60 a month. work mainly from J p.m. until II p.m. Contact Andre Rerthe, 12 Morris Avenue (within walking distance of campus). 393-9389. * * * * Lost: Gold nameplate necklace- Ra;dk. It lound. pkasc ~:all me <tt .~77 :9R97 * * * * Graduation announcements which have been previously paid for are now available from Mrs. M. in the Student Activities Office. * * * * Miss Evelyn Flook, associate director. National Center for Health Services Research & Development, Rockville. Maryland will speak on History of the Development of Health Services Research in the Hale House Student Lounge, on Thursday, May 25, at 3:00. Miss Flook will discuss the evolution of Health Services research and R & D. Several separate lines of research related to the delivery of health services will be traced. The relationship and non-relationship of the research. in particular units of time, to critical policy issues and events of the same periods wi II he explored, also .. \' \' \' \' ATTENTION ALL UNION SOPHOMORES Come In And Pick Up Your Union College Key GRATIS Maurice B. G-aubart & Som \3 Union Graduates in Graubart family\ 166 Jay Street ~~~~NN~~~~~~~~·~~·~~~~~~~~~~ (Graduation Weekend). Country Squire Motel corners Rt. 20 & 146 3 mi. from Thruway Ex. 25 close to Schenectady & Albany Restaurant; Lounge, Pooi .· Adjoining family. rooms . . . r TV -Phones 3898 Carman Road, Sch 9 dy N.Y. 12303 Phone 518-355-3110 SUMMER: A TIME TO GET IT TO:GETHER 'AT SCCC! . Register NOW for Summer Study at SCHENECTADY COUN.TY COMMUNITY COLLEGE . . Summer B an exeellent time to: • Make Up DefiCiencies • Accelerate Your Program • Satisfy Your Intellectual Curiosity Two Sessions- 1st Session: July S - July 18 (Day & Evening Courses) 2nd Session: July 19- Aug. 2~ (Day Courses Only) . More than 100 sessions available in Art, Social Sciences, Police Science, English and Literature, Business, Hotel Technology, Secreterial Science, and other areas. TUITION IS STILL ONLY S 17 PER CREDIT HOUR I Call SCCC's Office of Continuing Education NOW for Information (346·6211, Ext. 205) or Come in for a Visit any Weekday Between 8:30A.M. and 8:30 ·P.M. SCCC Will Satisfy. Your Summer Educational Needs.!. ,. #J ), I ,. :~ Vol.

