I I Ill V Ql. 103, No: 1 Frosh· Ai·d ;;:• by LAUREN WEILBURG If you wexe to tell a student at Union that there i:s a new program on campus called \RO.G. they would probably think that it is a code name for the Saga f'ood service. In actuality, 8.0.0. is an acronym for a new Federal financial aid plan, ·-the Basic · Educational Opportunity Grant Program. B.O.G. was passed under the Educatien Act of 1972 and W.:a& desig.ned to provide financial assistance to those who need it in order to attend post-\high school educational institutions. The program is arranged' so that the maximum award is $1,400 minus the amount the student and his entire family can contribute toward the cost of his education. The amount that the family contribution should be is decided by the American College Testing board of Kansas City. The size of the grant is determined not only by the family contribution,. but also by ;the actual amount of funds availahle for that year. Also, the gnant may not exceed one-half · of the student's educational costs. To qualify for a· grant under this program family income must be less than $11,000. (for a family of four), unless both parents work, ·~he family is- larger -than four people, there is more than one member of the family enrolled in post-high school educational programs, or if there were unusually large emergency expenses in the previous year. When this program was sponsored in 1972 by Senator Pell of Rhode Island, it called for a budget of I .3 · billion dollars. Unfortunately only 1.22 billion dollars was allocated to B.O.O. because of cuts in Federal spending. This difference of 80 million dollars has lowered the maximum award to $452 and changed the minimum award from $200 t-o $50. Since this program works in conjunction with· the \?ther Federal assistance programs, such' as the National Direct Student Loan, College Work Study, abd Economic Opportunity ·Grant programs, a student receiving money through B.O.G. could further supplement his funding. Questions on eligibility for this program and requests for applications can be referred to Mr. Joseph Maras, the Direct~r of Student Aid, whose office is located in the Student Activities Building. the lour de Union cycling race will be held on 'Saturday, October 13, at 10:00 A.M. The race is a relay, :;;plit into four legs of approximately fout miles each. The race course is laid out on the Union campus, and generally attracts many spectators. Four~man (or woman) teams may sign up with Mrs. Marra in the Student Activities Office through Friday, October 5; only the first 15 teams will be allowed to race. Fot more information, call Dan Miley at 346-9272. founded at lJnion Colkgt iit 1877 · Tuesday, September 25, 1973 20 cents Martin Addresses College The Social Committee announces a night of ROLLER SKATING Monday., Oct. 1, 7·10 P.M. at Rollerama in· Rotterdam.· 75¢ for skating, · 50¢ for bus transportation both ways (if needed), Sign up this week in Student Activit~es by giving you.r money to MRS. MARRA. Come roller skate · with us. by JUDY DEIN As 'President Harolc.l C. Martin announced l1is resignation, another era in the history of Union Colleg~ came to an en(!. On Monday, September 24, 1973, President Mitrtin gave his last Conv<:>cation address in Memorial Chapel. He has been President of U rtion for the last eight years, and his resignation will go into effect no late!' than June, 1974. ·The . Convocation ceremony consisted of the faculty entering the chapel in full ceremonial dress. The Glee Club performed several numbers to entertain the la.rge audience, and Dean Lichterman welcomed the new faculty. Provost Enteman then gave a .brief, rather humetous description of the role of the Provost~ a.s, in short, someone between the Dean and the President. ' The Provost's speech was followed by President Martin•s address.· It was not geared towards praising Union, or Dean Smith Speaks . Of Change for Union by NANCY GOLDEN The other night I had a meeting with the- girls on my floor to acquaint them with myself and with the school's policies on dorm living. I spent the majority of the time talking about the importance of a sense of \community\ on the floor; a continual caring and sharing. I wonder if they truly understood the seriousness of the matter. I wonder if most people do. The Union .College ·~community\ is not. what it should be. It seems that with such a small population, we should not have ·to be plagued by any anonymity and/ or callousness. But this is not the case. If you have met and talked with Mark Smith, the new Dean of Students, all of this becomes more and more lucid. Dean Smith is a powerful figure physically (I come up to about his navel) and he is amazingly eloquent without a trace of stuffiness. Listening to him talk about Union, one feels almost as if there are possibly no other schools in the country worth talking about. I have never heard the school praised so highly or so ·often. And he has very definite and constructive ideas for change, the primary one being a strengthening and remolding of the bonds between each and every member of out community including students, faculty, and administration. A change· such as this is not easy. It will not happen overnight, and it win not happen without total commitment from all .sides. We are not talking about changing a curriculum or consrructing a building. What we . must do . is change .attitudes. Everyone must be aware of the indignities sutrounding us here. Women students are still thought of as second class citizens; racism is omni-present; thievery is rampant; people are ionely and unhappy. These things must be remedied and we are all quite fortunate to have a man like ';;·-:.···· . \ \ Mark Smith ~·- •• >. ,~, Mark Srr1itlt to help us to implement these changes. We will be seeing more and more activities in which students, faculty, and administration will be able to· come together and interact. We seem to know too few professors outside of those in our own particular field. of study, and relatively few students have had the opportunity to come into contact \\dth members of the administration other than for purely business reasons. One of the most attractive features of .a small college such as Union is its excellent student·t~acher Tatio, · yet so few of us seem to ·take advantage of it. How·many times have you sat do.wn and talked to one of your professors over a beer? Other than the limited number wbQ seem to frequent the Rathskellar so regularly, the vast majority seem to be cut off from their students as soon as the .class ends. An increase· in this sort of ·interaction is an important. step t o w a r d:s t i g h t en i n g o u r commllnity. Dean Smith has an open-door policy, In fact, his. door is so open . Cqntimled on page 7 condoning his decisien to leave. Rather it was a description of what Union is, and what it wm hop.efully become. As he said, \Union is more than its buildings and its endowment; it is those who were graduated from it in the .past, and those still to be graduated from it. lt is the connections it has off-campus, with the town and the state and the nation. It is a history, a current fact, and a future.\ A change will be taking place at Union, .a change from the type of growth the College has. been experiencing. President . Martin was quoted in the Union College Chronicle as saying that the College has reached \a kind of stabilization after a period of growth and change... a different kind of development from that which has characterized the past decade must now take place.\ President Martin, in another interview with this reporter, described the growth and change of his administration as basically one of physical, and financial growth, giving the College a strong foundation for future improvement. He lists his major accomplishments as upgrading and expanding the faculty, strengthening the alumni support and developing a strong Board of Trustees. Along with these accomplishments must be included the completion of two new dormitories, Humanities and Social Science Buildings, and the new Science and Engineering Center. Union has also become co- educational under President Martin's administration, and has increased its enrollment to close to 2,000 students. This growth has not hindered relationships among students and faculty, according to President Martin. He claims that \it is not just the numbers that count, but the character of the relationships between students and other · students, and the faculty with which he comes in contact.\ The meaningfulness of the relationship between students and students, and students and faculty has not decreased; it is just that all students will not know every student or teacher. The change of the future will basically be one, the President feels, in the area of curriculum. Colleges will have to find out what the often-quoted word \relevant\ really means. Along with the cry for \relevance\ in the 1960's, came the idea that students ought to learn by directly participating in the \world and coming face-to- face with the problems confronting society. As President Martin explained in his convocation address, this idea taken to its extreme leads to \the work commune, the learning-by- doing unit.\ The opposite \Of this method of teaching, the idea that all learning ,should take place in $chool and from books since students must have the knowledge of how to handle the problems of society before they face them, is also not the perfect solution. This idea, also carried to an extreme, \produces the ivory towet, that place of withdrawn reflection and debate. 1 ' President Martin feels that all institutions will choose a path somewhere between the . ivory tower and work commune in determining future curriculum changes. As he explained in his speech, President Martin feels that every school will have to ask itself the following question: \Given what we are now as a result of our history, given what we have and shall be able to get to Wvl'k with, and given the emerging changes in the social temper of this country, what are the wist: moves for us to make this year, next year, and for the remainder of this decade?\ President Martin will leave the school with the knowledge that the facilities for many future changes are here, and ready to be used. There exists an excellent faculty, buildings and laboratories available for research and study, and a sound financial statement. In his interview, President Martin explained that he does not know whether there will be a consolidation or expansion in the number of academic fields available. Under the present administration there have been no new divisions of study offered. Instead there has been an increase in the graduate program, Arts ·Department~ and Inter- Departmental majors. President Martin. feels that since Union does boast a first..,rate faculty, Inter-Departmental courses of study do not reduce the value of education and do not end up with the students learning a little bit of nothing. One reason for the new type of growth in curriculum, along with the social changes which are occuring constantly, is that, due to a lack of funds, many private colleges have moved from the buyer's market to the seller•s. Schools no longer have as much choice concerning who will fill their freshman class. Many students, especially those from the middle class home where the mcome level is too high to warrant a l!trge government scholarship, are finding themselves unable to afford a private college. ·(Lack of enrollment, however, does not seem to be a serious problem at Union.) Schools now, in an attempt to attract more students, find themselves committed to creating a climate and curriculum popular with the students. Another reason for the new trend towards changes in curricul!J.m and student activities on campus is that a new type of student can be found. President Martin claimed that since he has not been teaching, he does not note the change himself. However, when he spoke to Professor Jonas of the History Department, Jonas claimed that better prepared and more serious , students are now attending college. Board scores do not show the change, but it may be partially due to the fact that more students have had the opportunity to travel alone, and consequently experience and see more than did students of previous generations. Presently, there is a committee looking for President Martin's successor. The committee consists of six Trustees, seven faculty members, four studentS 1 and three administratbrs. President Martin ended his Convocation speech by saying that he is confident that his Continued on Page 7

Page2 CONCORDIENSIS, Tuesday, ~eptember 25, 1973 CONCORDIENSIS founded at Union College in 1877 CONCORDIENSIS STAFF Editor in Chief.. .............................................. Al Reisch Managing Editors ...................... , .............. Rita Morandi Dave Strom News Editor ................................................ Geoff Taylor Features Editor ................. , ................... Phyllis Edelman Sports Editor .............................................. Bart Mercer Investigative Editor ..................................... ,Don Krone Business Manager ...................................... Alan Gnessin National Ads ................................................ Steve Kelly Photography Editors .................................. Bill Erichson Les Kernan Jeff Weilberg Copy Editor ......................................... , ...... Phil Alcabes Our Philosophy In recent years this column has held, during the first weeks of the new school year, dire warnings of dea:th through apathy. and followed such threats with stirring appeals for assistance. We need not. For the first time in recent history we have a functional staff and we are sure that as time passes this staff will steadily rebuild itself. We would instead offer several assertions. They are the blocks that will form the basis of our purpose this year. We intend to follow them closely; and all that we ask of you as a body is to let us know when we deviate from our stated purpose, and to bear with us until we get ourselves back on course. We are not professionals, and we will make numerous technical errors. This is not a reflection upon our content, however. Through in depth reporting, analysis, and comment we intend to bring issues that affect the campus ~mmunity as a whole to the fore. We are tired of rumors. We are tired of badmouthing behind backs and we view. ourselves as one of the Jew groups on this island who .can begin to be as honest as all of us must be if we are to get anywhere at all. We will never apologize for anything that ,we print for we will not print anything until we are satistic;;d that it is accurate in both substance and spirit. If we are lied to and fail to realize this We may print untruth. When we are shown this to be the case we will publicly correct the · error determinedly, never apologetically. Due to paper shortages (they're real) and lack of funds to meet higher costs (no one here's to fault, really) we have decided to publish once a week and put out a larger paper each issue. This reduces total cost while giving us the same amount of space as we formerly worked with. Look for the paper on Thursdays from this point on. If all of this sounds pompous, it is not meant to. We simply view this as what our function has to be as we enter our ninety-sixth year. It is what we would be paid to do; if we were paid. Concordiensis is published every Wednesday during the school year except during examination and vacation periods by the student body of Union College, Schenectady, N.Y. National Advertising Representative: National Educational Advertising s~rvice, Inc .. NYC. -Editorial office, Old Gym Hall, Union College. Publication office, The Jewish World Publications. 771 State Street, Schenectady, New York, 12307 (346~2356). Entered in- the Schenectady post office as Second Class Mail Matter. Subscription rate: 20. cents a copy, 8 dollars a year delivered anywhere in the United States. Deadline for all copy. which must be TYPED AND DOUBLE SPACED. is 1 p.m. on Tuesday· at the Concordiensis office, located third floor Carnegie. The office phone nurQ.ber is 370-6155. but the office is in use only on Monday and Thursday nights. FOR ALL EDITORIAL MATTERS CALL THE EDITOR-IN-CHIEF AT 370-61.26, FOR INFORMATION CALL MRS. MARRA IN THE STUDENT ACTiVITIES OFFICE AT 370-6118. tevrs Dave's. Mens. Shop ~3 State St. (downtown Schenectady) _J, gorl' jar-gon, \' .1. the language~ a s~ial group or pr~ssion Ci.e., doctors,show-biz~pes,et.c.) 0 0 0 LAFAYETTE Radio • Electronics· associate~stoies of SEIDEN SOUND, INC. i4fErie Blvd. ' with Tel. J4(i-6ltl V fi- . Sch'dy., N.Y. US rst. 2. gibberish; cort.P(.Ised and rneaningless talk or writing. (i.e., p~Hpsophe~s, pec;!ants, . te.tel/t$1011 engtneers, etc.) 0 00 by DON KRONE Capturing the fancy of the conversations. summer soap-opera addicts, the Haldeman's unexpeeted Senate Watergate hearings, with a revelations gave Ervin an·d mind..:boggling plot and a cast of Special Pr-osecutor Archibald hundreds, became a ,part of Cox the ammunition they needed American history. ·for a yet to be resolved. court For- those fortunate enough to - battle over the tapes. devote their mornings and John Mitchell, Richard Helms, afternoons to one of the Nixxon and L. P-atrick Gray lU were Administration's biggest blunders, other big names to take the stand. Sam Ervin an<! his charges But, it was Maureen Dean and directed the greatest day-time attorney John. J. Wilson who show ever seen on television. garnered considerable ink. The old country lawyer, Ms. Dean, strikingly feautiful, was the aim of every photographer in the Old Senate Caucus Room. Wilson, gained fame for hi~ legal: battles with Chairman Sam and: his name- calling tactics with I rtouye. Unfortunately, :those who missed th¢ ·summer~ Watergate h€aring~ won't see much of the €Xplosi:ve v.erbal displays in the present Phase II of the hearings and most certainly will not be able to tune tn re-runs of this political escapade. sporting quotes from the Bible and Civics lessons on the Constitution, questioned, harassed, and interro~ated top members of the Nixon clan. Joining the distinguished Senator from North Carolina were Howard \Presidential Potential\ Baker of Tennessee, Lowell \Emotional\ Weicker of Conn., Edward \Nixon's Man\ Gurney of Florida, paniel \The Jap\ Inouye of Hawaii, Joseph \How Did I get Elected\ Montoya of New Mexico, and Herman \Southern Drawl\ Talmadge of Georgia. tJnion Governance Along with chief Counsel' $am Dash and his assistant Fred Thompson, the senators revealed !oheir law backgrounds and the remarkable tendency to ask questions bordering on the absurd. Easily the most impressive witness in the summer-long TV replacement show was John W. Dean III. lhe July 9th issue of Newsweek magazine be.st portrayed Dean with the . following, \Yet Dean all by himself took on a sort of authenticity through his week on Four-network TV (ABC, NBC. CBS, and PBS), droning out I names, dates and places tonelessly as a CPA reading back an adding machine tape ... \ The carefully- prepped White House aide opened with a voluminous ~tatement and 47 supporting ex hi bits. Despite Gurney's attempt to discredit Dean, the bespectacled mastermind of the Watergate coverup emerged unscathed. . After Dean's five-day stay, the average Middle American, beginning to feel the demise of his symbolic reassurance, protested so vigorously that three major TV networks volunteered a rotating coverage schedule. The back-to-back appearances of John D. Ehrlichman and H. R. (Bob) Haldeman, Nixon's longtime political cronies, highlighted the later stages of the testimony. ''His ceaseless bobbing and nodding in the witness chair precisely mirrored the way he dodged and wove through the committee's questions \ Newsweek wrote after Ehrlichman tied Dean's longevity record of five days. Careful not to slip, thus escaping possible perjury charges c.at a later date, Ehrlichman pleaded innocent to all charges and protected the President. Haldeman, showing an out-of- date \drill-instructor\ brush cut, contrasted his colleague t rem en do us I y. Despite threatening not to prepare an opening statement, Haldeman turned in a lengthy report, including his own reflections on two of the White House taped (Note: onl~ one pro~ssiori has per.\1ect~ the art o~ hogwash: Educatot$. They ha-~e so palished their jatgon ... C> 0 00 by PHYLLIS EDELMAN In 1971 an Ad Hoc Committee on Governance, appointed in the previous .year, made recommendations to President Martin suggesting a new system of governance fot Union College. In general, the proposals made by this committee were accepted ·by the faculty, students, and trustees resulting in the present system of governance, instituted in I 97 I. W h a t i s p r o b,a b l y incomprehensible to freshmen, and most upper-classmen, is exactly what this system of governance is at Union. The diagram of the governance system is ·rather confusing, with t'he lines and arrows between the different bodies. Try first to disregard th~se and focus on the All•College Senate. . The All-College Senate is the legislative body of Union College. It deals with both academic and non-academic affairs of the College with its membership elected by its different constituencies. The President or his representative is the Chairman of the College Senate. The two academic deans and the Dean of Students are also members. The faculty sends 12 elected members to the College Senate, three from each of the four different divisions of the College (l - Humanities, II - Social Sciences, III - Natural Sciences, IV - Engineering.) Four student members are also elected to the All-College Senate, representing students from each of the four divisions. There are also elected one undergraduate and one graduate student, both members-at-large. The President of the Steering Committee, which functions as the Student Government is also a member of the All-College Senate. The Agenda Committee, composed of members from the All-College Senate, decides which proposals will be brought before the Senate. These proposals come before the Agenda Committee as suggested by the College Committees. There are ·eleven College Committees as follows: Admissions, Athletics, Budget· and Priorities, Conduct, Curricular Affairs, Development, Faculty and Staff Benefits, Graduate Studies, Liaison and Governance, Library, and Special Events. There are also sub- committees under several of these committees. Membership to these committees generally consists- of faculty, students and members of the administration. Students petition to become members of these committees in the spring and are appointed by the Committee on Committees. ... Educators ca11 110 longer understand one another.) ~ 0 T;he Student Committee on Committees makes the recommendations to the Steering . Committee for the appoint!Uent of members to the College Committees. The Student Committee on Committees consists · of members from the Steering ,Committee, the student government. These Steering Committee representatives are elected in the spring in a campus- wide election, with two rep'resentatives per class. The President, Vice-President, and Secretary are elected by the general student body.. The freshman class has yet to elect their representatives to the Steering Committee. These elections will be held on Oct. 30th. There is no slight meant to the ·faculty by not describing how representatives are elected to their Division meetings or to Faculty Committees. For the sake of simplifying matters for the stude.nts the autonomous concerns of the faculty will not be explained. . Besides the Student Committee on Committees, which .presents student nominees to the Steering Committee for all-colleg~. student, and faculty committees, there are also four other student committees. These are Elections. Social, Student Life, and Tax. Like the College Committees, students must petition for membership with their names ultimately approved by the Steering Committee. The faculty committees cannot be entirely ignored by students because membership on two of the five committees also comprises students. The Advisory Committee on Promotions, Salaries and Tenure on general policy has students as advisory members. The four semi- autonomous subcommittees of the Standards Committee also has student members, some only in an advisory r.ole. The roles of the President and the Board of Trustees are not in the least being overlooked. The President, or his representative, has .the power of appointing all administrators or staff which are to be members of any College, faculty or student committees. The President also has the power to appoint any ad hoc committees needed to study a concern when there is no _regular standing committee. The President is responsible for po.Jicy implementation. He also is a voting member of the Board of Trustees. The President and the Board of Trustees have paramount power with respect to budgetary issues of the College. The Board of Trustees includes campus members. There are twt> faculty members with votes, elected by the faculty. There are also two students who, are associate members. The students are elected in a campus-wide ·election for a two-year term, one student frotn each of the juniot and senior classes. If, a\fter reading this expla·nation, the governance system at Union stiB remains a Continuf!d on Page 3 I I I by RC Sept. interview Enteman three qt flinctiom Union commun on the n1 The I president report in!! Presiden1 provost underg1 operatiot operatiOI (the u curricula .prograrn, Mainte Bookstot services. the exte to the C At U11 commun what a Union s descripti• necessar) club atm that give educatio1 should atmosph1 attain th elitist ex1 be turni . commun the rea: should paradise Schenect We h~ passing (and not particula atmosph• formatio have losl longer S• same int• as they ourselve! of ind accompli out for. Our compose These f G.E. pi~ unions, individul along 1 structure Here institutic which ' change c weren't administ and the, each ·c

· COWCORDIENSIS 1 Tuesday, September 25, 1973 Page3 I ~ . . <t • SCHEMA OF GOVERNANCE SYSTEM ~ - -----·--- -- ..... . . J .. l}oai'd of .. . . Tr:Ustees ~· ·~\ Committee · · . ' ·r- -~---- ----- ......... _ .......... ___ .. _~ \' ' ~' . Admi11. appts. only . f President I. ' · All appts. ~I .. . -. . . . .. . \ ..,_ __ {\ --- ---~ ~. . Ul' ~·· (!) ** 'I; \\ Ql .I ~; , 'I; \\ dl \: Q): ALL ' . ' COLLEGE SENATE ' ~ ' ..0 ---------- I Alumni J Ad Hoc I Comms. -~, I I I I I~ lfll ,g ,:; I~ ·~ (I) 1!3 Continued from page 2 mystery, don't despair. It is a rather complicated and confusing system which is not understood by many who participate in its workings. Hopefully though, after mulling over this, some sense will be made out of it, and perhaps a little light shed. ~: ~. Joint Com. ,g WPI ~ ..... , ·~-~~ Agenda Mtgs .• 11'1 - CD ~. ' Committee I \\ Faculty :\ ~- ~, I 0 . j· I > ' I .. CO!lTas. I ' I , ! ' I ~· ''\ .I --- --·-~ _________ _. Continued from Page 8 ' I ' . , . College ' I ' I Committees ' ' ' , ' ' I !\ ' I - , j \' ' I '~ ' .~if. '.l ! Center (or ' .ST!,i:ERING COMMITTEE - . Div.) Mt:g;:;. ., Fa.c • comm. St;. Conm. on Comms. on Comma. . I I I I * Provide for referenda ** Exclusive of budgetary mat·ters Key to the Diagrams ____ , indicates an advisory relationship whether ·by· appoi'ntment or election. ==~ indicates the binding na.ttue of the decisions in the diract ion of the arrow. by ROB M_ON.DSCHEIN Sept. 24 (Schenectady)... An interview with Provost Willard F. Enteman yielded his views on three questions: What are the functions of the provost? Has Union College a sense of community? What are your views on the new New York drug law? The provost is the internal president of the College but reporting to and under the President of the College~ The provost is overseeing the whole undergraduate curricular operation; he oversees the operation of the Dean of Studen.ts (the undergraduate extra- curricular activities), the graduate program, budget operations, Maintenance, Security, Bookstore, food, and health services. The President carries on the externaJ functigns necessary to the College. At Union, is there a sense of community? · Before describing what a sense of community at Union should and could be, a description of what it is not is necessary. It is not the country club atmosphere of many schools that give social enjoyment but are educationally bankrupt. union should not have the \clubby\ atmosphere of many schools that attain that air through the use of elitist exclusion. Neither should it be turning the College into a . community that is separate from the real world. The , College should not try to obta:in a paradise on a walled-in section of Schenectady. We nave all become like ships passing in the night. Our world (and not just the United States in particular) has created the atmosphere that prevents the formation of relationships. People have lost their perspective and no longer see that others have the same interests, feelings, and goals as· they themselves. We all split ourselves into contending blocks of individuals and never accomplish the goals that we set out for. another, if the artificiality of these groups could be rem~:>ved and if ea<;h could work with one another,. then something could be accomplished, bonds could be developed, person t;o, person, person to society, person to caring. College should be a sta,ge in the development of people: educationally, emotionally, socially. After' an expe~ience like this has taken place, the student leaves with a new }Jerspective. Enter the bureaucratic mega structures of society with the knowledge that a different system, a different approach can be accomplished. The sense of coinmunit.y is that underlying tension of activity that envelops a community involvement? It is the involvement and co-operation amon~ people at the College, and ha.ving people in Union who see what must be done and what could 1Je done and who will do it. . Though many st1.1dents are much more concerned with obtaining a high cume, the Provost feels that these students ~ould be easily seducedinto being a part of the co-mmunity, to have the sense of concern. ltle feeling of caring. To de_scrii>e this sense of community by use of an analogy, everyone cannot be the football player, but the team is not a team, if it doesn't have fans rooting for it.' The provost seetns to want Union to have a sense of community, but sees t.he constant social pressures that prevent this from occurring. He wa:s sincere when he expressed the opinion that it would be great if Union could just produce a few doctors, lawyers, and engineers ,who could bring with them the vigor and drive, the knoWledge that there is a different way to accomplish goals at Union. Finally, the Provost was asked about the new New York State drug law. For those students from out of state, New York( ()r should ,it be Rockefeller) O()Vi boasts of having the strictest drug law in the country. The law is far- reaching; to say that putting too much monosodium glutamate on your food will get you 7 to 10 is an exaggeration, but it isn't too much of an exaggeration. Over a hundred new judges were Levrs ap.poiilted just to handle the increased flow. (No new prisons are being built so they'll just get a bigger shoehorn to cram all the \criminals\ in.) It cost the state a lot of money for all these judges, and it even spent over half a million to educate the people in a multi-media campaign the theme of which was -·~if you don't stop we're gonna get you and lock you up for a long time.\ Provost Enteman disagrees with the law, but does see it as a part of the present reality and sees the danger that ex.ists. Students should be particularly wary. Publicity must be made .to show how effective the law is. A college with plenty of bag-holding students is easily accessible and \raidable.\ Union had a raid last year; why won't it have- another one now with this new law? The Provost sees no point when the penalties are so ominous. He hopes nothing will occur but... First impressions of the Provost are that he is a very rela•xed, very sure, and very concerned individual. He did not appear to be a hypocrite, and he was far from g1vmg th.e appearance of an idealist. If our newly-appointed Provost helps to bring to Union his idea of community, then we just might have something on our hands., punt return and a one-yard plunge to close the scoring. ' \ ...... ----- -- , For Union, running ace Ronnie Westbrook battered his way to 54 yards on twenty c~rries behind inconsistent blocking. The Union front line also allowed Dutchmen yuarterbacks Joe Urschel and Gary Lauver to be sacked countless times for a total of 57 yards lost. I I l Student .. ., Comms • --~) indicates appointive elective voti.ng participation. Union rests next Saturday but runs into the mighty Alfred University, Saxons Oct. 6 in another away match. Lambert Bowl winner Alfred, 7-l last season, has outscored Union 58·0 in the last three meetings of the two schools. Provost Willard F. Enteman APEX MUS.It KO_RN'ER. Announces New Student Discount For UNION STUDENTS. UPON PRESENTATION OF COLLEGE I.D. YOU GET $100 OFF Regular List Price On 'All Album~. & 1 Ol Discount or sale price with a 10% discount CORNER BROADWAY AND STATE ST. Our world has become composed of huge institutions. These free-floating forms: the G.E. plants, the Pentagons, the unions, etc. composed of individuals who are dragged along in them. The family structure is even being torn apart. Here at Union (another institutional container through whi~;h various people pass) a change could be attained. If there weren't these categories of administration, faculty, students, and the various blocks of students each ·contend.h1g with one Dave's' Mens Shop 453 State St. (downtown Schenectady) In eonce:rt, Saturday, Sept. 29, 8:30 P.M. in Memorial Chapel: BONNIE RAITT and RANDY NEWMAN.~. Tickets are $2.00 for Union Students, available at Student Activities all week.

.. Page4 CONCORDI:ENSIS, Tuesday, September 25, 1973 crossword puzzle ACROSS 1 Swig 4 Capital of Latvia 8 Cancer 12 Tonal language 13 Rickenbacker and the Red ~ron 14 Occurs by chance (arch.) 15 Drama: Joe··· 16 Dbg 1-8 Flanders flower 20 Usedwith shift and box 21 Comparative suffix 22 Bog 23 Shade of green 27 Finished first 29 Jolt 30 Character from Peanuts 31 Article 32 Range of knowledge 33 Catcher in the--· 34 Steamship (ab.) 35 Fragrance 37 View 38 River in Scotland 39 Soccer hero 40 Insect 41 Symbol: helium 42 Used with drome and nautical 44 Kind of hemp 47 Character from Peanuts 51 Australian bird 52 Sea eagle 53 Saber's cousin 54 Fabulous bird of prey 55 Exploit 56 Auld lang •·•• 57 Attempt Promoted DOWN 1 ·Footfall 2 Othello's nemesis 3 Character from Peanuts 4 Risque' 5 --- Iiebe dich 6 Kind of counter 7 Pallid 8 Character from Peanuts 9 (2ridiron cheer 1 0 Movie: The World of··· 11 Youth organization (ab.) 17 University of Arizona (ab.) 19 Abbreviation used in adver- tising 22 Aficcionado 24 The doctor is -- Three members of the Union College faculty have ·been promoted to Associate Professor, the College announced today. Advanced to the senior rank were Stephen M. Berk and David H. Potts of the History Department and William W. Thomas of the Department of Modern Languages. Prof. Berk, a Russian history specialist, has been a member of the Union faculty since 1967. A. :'\ew York City native, he is a graduate of the University of 1\:nnsylva nia. has a master's degree from the University of ( 'hicago and a doctorate from Columbia University. Prof. Potts. an American 25 Terpsichore, for eKample 26 Being (·Lat . .) 27 Sociologist's term 28 One time 29 Acettain set 30 Soap in·gredient 32 Sqt,Jeezed 33 Soak 36 ··Dorado 37 Character from Peanuts 38 Gobi, far one 40 Palacio de Bellas ----- 41 Greeting 43 Plural suffix 44 Travel on thin runners (var) 45 Love Spanish style 46 World's greatest fussbudget 47 Splieed· 48 Bauxite 49 Any number divided by itself 50 Period of time (ab.) Distr. by Puzzles. Inc. No. 109 © / : .... Feeding time at tbe zoo. ------~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Photo by Bill Erichson Bob Bernhardt returned to Union to welcome the Class of 1977 and reminisce with old friends. Also featured were Chet Arthur and His Flying Aces who provided continuing fun and entertainm~nt with their Fifties style performance. Photo by Bill Erichsen LOWEST YOUTH FARES TO EUROPE .$i00 · Ages 12 thru 23 ~~ Civilization specialist, joined the Union faculty in 1967, after he earned his doctorate at Harvard University. A native of Bridgeport, Conn., he received his under-graduate education at Wesleyan University. Prof. Thomas, who teaches French, carrie to Union in 1969. A Buffalo, N, Y ., native, Thomas is a graduate of Hamilton College and earned his doctorate from the State University of New York at Buffalo .. • Quality With Hipp Round-trip jet, New York to Luxembourg in the heart of Europe, Sept thru May for stays of up to a year. Show proo.f of, age. Book within 30 days of your flight. YOU CAN BE IN EUROPE TOMORROW! The three promotions are effective Sept, I. rJAKr~ UPSTEIN'S ~ LIQUORS § Tel. 374-!888 ~ Mon.-Sat. 9 a.m.-9 p.m. 464 State St. Downtown Schenectady ~ by CURT BROWN Despite skyrocketing food costs, the Saga Food Service \will not sacrifice quality under any circumstances,\ says Gary Hipp, the Saga Food Service Manager at Union College. Mr. Hipp pointed' out that although food prices have risen 12-20% in the past year. board prices have only increased five dollars for the 14-meal plart (from $205 to $210 per term, a 2.4% increase), and ten dollars f-or the 20-meal plan (from $220 to .$230 per term, a 4.5% increase). How does Saga plan to make up the 'difference? \We will cut hack the frequency of meat,\ said Mr. Hipp, which will cut costs substantially. Steaks will be served only one Saturday per month. (Last year steaks were served every Saturday.) Saga will integrate high protein, non-meat sources into its menu, probably .increasing the nutritional value of food served to Union students. H ipp emp·hasized that he has in the past and will continue to buy only U.S.D.A. choice meats, U.S. No. I produce, artd top brand name canned goods. Mr. Hipp is constantly working ~m methods to impr.ove the quality .of Saga food. He recently attended a four-day seminar in Richmond, Virginia, where he learned new and better techniques for meat cookery, buying rroduce. and making gtavies and sauces. Hipp has changed the format ·of the 14-meal plan, giving it a flexibility unsurpassed by any board plan in the country. Under the new format a student wiU be allowed to eat any combination of 14 meals per week. Under the old plan, the stud;ent skipped hreakfast. Gary H:ip.p is a man dedicated to his job. \I am here to serve the students of Union College,\ he said. He is always around West College during meal time, and enjoys meeting People. (He is currently planning· a \Meet the Manager\ party for students.) He is Very interested in any comments or criticisms a student may have about the food service program. Icelandic Airlines also offers one-week car, rail and ski tours to Europe, Nov. thru March. Get details on our Youth and student fares and lowest-cost tours to Europe, of any scheduled airline. See your travel agent. ------~---- ...... --, r To: lcelarittic Airlines . ' 1 636 Fifth Ave., N._Y., N.Y.l0020 1 I (212) 'PL 7·8585. Toll Free outside I N. Y. State (800) 221-9760 I Send folder CN on Lowest Youth I I Faresto:EuropeD Tours 0 I I Namet_,_ _____ _,_~ I Street ________ _ I I CitY~·--------- State Zip._.. --- 1 'I My travei agent is---~- 1 --------~---'-~- 1/CEIANDIC L ...... ~-----------J ·F·t . . 1: •r This yc projection e' picture ente1 Ad miss George and 30~ Jn:P generals, wh is produce1 Scl1affner. J. The Be the FinziCc The fi:Jm, se Continis' fa edicts. At 7: If you Harold am pyschiatry, . a necrophil GoPdon anc 11:00 both l Belle I Catherine I .and 11:00 o Ever fe Rosemary's fear arid ir Cassevettes. nights. Bullit i in .this, one seen it you' miss them and lf:OOo Filtn ¥. on Nov. U adaptation Arthur, hi: Richard H: nights. Now a the traged) middle clas ·his. wife. D 7:00,9:00 a The l~ Virginia \ -with Sand~ 7:00,9:15 a ALL I May bt i § ~ ~ :sc.h~f, ~ (forth §THREE U~ IN l <Q>~c \A 12~ Bud b ._..,._ Jea1 ' ~ for aJ Carl

CONCORDJENSJS, Tuesday, September25, 197:3 Page5 Film Hops Fall Flicks ' !his year ·with a top selection of films. and b~and new projection ~qu~~ment, FILM·H~PS il'! offering the finest in motion picture entextamment ever at Umon. Admission for each film is only a dollar. George C. Scott refused the Oscar on the film shown Sept,, 29 and 30• In :Patton, Scott plays one df the Army's most controversial generals, who is praised and reviled by hawk a~d dove alike. Patt~n is produced by Frank . McCarthy and duected by Frankhrt Schaffner. At 7:00 and 10:00 on both nights. The Best Foreign Film Award-winning movie 'Ehe G?rden of the Finzi ,Continis fina~Iry will make it to Union on Oct. 6th and 7th. The fi:lm, set in 1938 in lta,ly, depicts the. Jewish, aristocratic Finzi Continis~ family as they become victim of Mussolini's anti-?elnitic edicts. At 7:00, 9:00, and I 1;00 on both nights. If you l'ike to laugh your chaeyce is on Oct. 13th and 14th. Harold and Maude makes fun of motherhood, the military, pyschiatry, and ~omputer dating through the incredible romance of a necr0philiac teenager and an so~yeat-old lady. :It stars Ruth Gordon and Sud Curt. Directed by Bal Ashby. At 7:00; 9:00 !).nd ll:OQ both nights. Belle De Jour will be shown on O(Jt. 20 and 21. It stars Catherine Deneuve, a,nd is directed by Louis Bunuel. At 7:00, 9:00 .and ll :00 on both nights. Ever feel Iike you've been screwed by the devil? Rosemary ihas. Rosemary's Baby penetrates deep into the subconscious and creates fear arid irresistable terror, Mia Farrow is Rosemary with John Cassevettes. This one is a must. At 7:00, 9:20 and 11 :40 on both nights. Bullit is back aga:in on Nov. 3rd and 4th. Steve McQueen stars in this, one of the most action-packed films ever .made. If you've seen it you'H want to see it again and if you haven't then you can't miss the mov,ie that made the chase scene what it is. At 7:00, 9:00 and 1 f:OO on both nights. Filtn Haps brings its first musical to the Union CoHege screen on Nov. lOth and lith. Camelot is the Academy Award~winning adaptation of Lerner and Loewe's Broadway show about King Arthur, his knights, . and his lady, starring Vanessa Redgrave, Richard Harris, and David Hemmings. At 7:00 and 10:00 on both nights. . · Now a classic, John Updike's Rabbit Run hauntingly portrays the tragedy of a man desperately trying to escape the. snares of middle class morality. James Caan is Rabbit and Carrie Snodgrass ·his wife. Don't pass this one. up. It's on Nov. 17th and 18th. At 7:00, 9:00 and 11 :00 on both nights. The last film of the ·term is the famous Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolfe. It stars Elizabeth Taylor and Richard Burton, -with Sandy Dennis and George Segal. Mike Nichols directs. A.t 7:00, 9:15 and 11:30 on both nights. ALL FILMS ARE SHOWN IN SS 016. May run Small ads, but they have big values. § ~:~ ~ _ Schenec~~g;.s famous § .. ,. diamond shop, ~ (for three generations) 166 Jay St. . THREE UNION GRADUATES IN THE FAMILY <Q><.b><Q>~.q>~ ' _...., ______ , John& Mr. Ed tt Invite You To See Our ff Nuts t AT 1 t T ... t ,t • HE t :BED FOX~ f INN f t \A Quiet Bar'' t : 12~ - '\ Street l t Bud b., c Pitcher t •- .... ----.-..-~ @rs Webster After 70 years, the old Schenectady Public Library on the corner of Union St. and Seward Place is now a home for students rather than books. The three-storey building is now owned by Union College and this fall has been opened as a dormitory. It has been named Webster Hous~;:, for Harrison E Webster, an 1868 Union graduate who was the College's eighth President, ~erving from 188!1 until 1894. The building was constructed in 1903 on land donated by Union C o II e ge . a n d s e ~;v e d a s Schenectady's public library until 1969 when the new downtown facility was completed. The College purchased the building from the city at auction in 1970 for $40.000 and prior to this fall has used the former lihtary as a home for the Volunteers for 1 nternational I echnical Assistance (VlT A), the Capital District Library Council, Project Upward Bound and 'several student organizations. Webster House, after extensive interior remodeling, is now home to 50 undergraduates. Included in. the .. three-fioor dormitory are single and double rooms, six lounges, and kitchenettes, laundry, and typing facilities. · Cost of the refurbishing project. including furniture, was put at $400,000 by Union Treasurer Dal'e F. Timberlake. Guarding the Library this year who doubt this should ask any upperclassman who uses the library. There will also be the problem_ of missing pages from -books, etc. Why? Probably by GEOFF TAYLOR In a meeting of Resident Advisors last week, Dr. Tolan disdosed a figure of 1'000 missing books tha:t were n:turned to the library in June. I certainly applaud the students; faculty,and visitors whose consciences got the better of them. The problem of stolen books has not ended, however, and each of us can expect to reach in vain for a magazine or book that has been permanently borrowed. Fr~shme!l because the person who ri{!ped them out felt semi-guilty about taking the whole book and only wanted a part of it. Unfortunately this mutilation of literature is just as appalling as stealing the entire book. For those of us who doubt that, ask the librarian how much is involved in replacing pages of books. Photo by Bill Erichson This mutilated book is just one of many that were· destroyed or stolen from Schaeffer library. Some 1,000 books were returned to the :library in June, but the In my last letter to the students and faculty (in the May 4, 1973 issue of Concordy) certain figures which many peopl'e found staggering and downright upsetting were mentioned. The library last year kept a tally of the number of returned books that were not charged out as of May 1, 1973. The total was 728. This is deplorable and must be changed. Why can't people check books out? It doesn't cost them a cent! Dr. Tolan said that there is no indication of the total number of books missing, but there is no doubt that the numbers run into the thousands, Another figure mentioned was found by two inventories. One of them was before the summer of '72, the other was during that same summer. Combined, the total number reached a startling total of I 020 missing books. This figure is more horrible than it appears; the inventory was taken only in the 300 section, which includes soc ia I sciences ( eco~omics, government, law, etc.), If this is to be the year for action then we must do something! The cooperation of RA's has been promised. A fair problem still exists. Co,ntinued on Page 6 tevrs Dave's Mens Shop· 453 State St. 1 (downtown Schenectady) _Q .. • : e .J. THE· PEAN·ur STORE Featurinf( PLANTERS HOT ROASTED PEANUTS ancl Nutmeats from all over the world M·offet's Liquors 1505 Van V rank en Mon.-Sat. 9:30-9:00 346-0392 Join Our Wine Tasters Club Free. WRD JEFF L . .,... JeHiamb Fine Ribbed Turtle Feather light rib pullover in luxuriously soft and cozy 1 00% fine gauge lambswool. Gener- ously tailored for comfortable fit. All this lux· ury is machine washable. In ripe colors. Jean's Ea-sr Shop Ace Stationery DAVE'S for the Newest and Latest in Styles Carl's Main Fioor 1715 Jay St. Cards for all Occasions 372-2008 Mon.-Sat. 9:30-5:30

.. \ Page6 CONCORDIENSJS, Tuesday, September 25, 1973 • • op1n1on We're Back by DON HAMMERMAN Back to school, back to work, back to books and late nights and inedible food and discovering oneself and meeting new friends and. frustration and, well, life. Ah back to Union, to the Electric City; to the Coffeehouses and Concordy and the films and the fraternity pa.rties and the football games and tenure and, well, ... and back to work. But summer wasn't that fantastie was it? Those hot days at the job for which you should have been getting twice the pay they were paying you and summer wasn't that great, was it? No after-hours books to read or papers to write assignments to meet but ain't that half the fun ain't that the essence of higher education? Pressure? Hmmm? Now being a freshman and getting to dig orientation and Saga food and, well,... being a freshman one gets to see the college from the virgin perspective - from the outside before being sucked down to the abysmal depths of college life. You can see from the outside before falling into the routine when one is tempted to grow too close to observe and criticize; you can see Union through the glass. And then orientation is over, done with, a memory ... a mere bad dream. Oh don't get the idea that I don't like UColl - it is, well... Anyway, Orientation fnished and now you have to pick your own seat in the cafeteria and. bang, the classes start and two weeks fly by and you realize you are behind .... ,but I just got here, how am I behind?\ Oh blessed summer, I long for your sweet caresses. BLIT:HER FITNESS PROGRAM A keep-fit program including isotonic and isometric exercises has been proposed. Many of the exercises will be set to music, giving a continual rhythmic- endurance movement, the essence of fitness. My goal is to keep people fit so they can enjoy their lives to the fullest. 1 hope to achieve a total fitness and feeling -of well-being by improving tht: cardiovascular and musculoskeletal systems. Exercise will break up fat around lazy muscles. Weight then reproportions itself as muscles __ tighten and f!rl!l· . - There is no shortcut to fitness. Methods will be those learned in a Sports Hall in England. If you are interested, sign up in the Gymnasium. Janet Weick A registered nurse. * * * * Attention all engineers! Lay down your slide rules and come to a Beer and pizza party on Thursday, Sept. 27 at 8:00p.m. in room NWIOO in the Science and engineering Center. Sponsored by the IEEE and ASCE. An excellent opportunity to meet the engineering faculty as well as other engineering students. FREE Complete listing of magazine subscriptic,ns at discount rates. Write: GIFT TREEt ColJege Dept. Bx. 5922, Grand Central Sta. New York;, N.Y. 10017 Married couples needed for Baby Sitting Fulltime-Part time, $16.70 per day. Free Room and Board. Ask for Jean- Tel. 456-0998. Moffett's Liquor Store 1505 VanVranken Ave. _Schenectady, New York 12308 -ADD TO YOUR EDUCATION- -LEARN MORE ABOUT WINES- Join Our WINE TASTING CLUB No Admissions Charge- No Requirements Each month we select a different wine to he tested. There is a card describing the wine in great detail so you can learn about .it. On this card there is a picture of the label so you can remember the wine iJ1 the future to impress your date when you dine ·out or simply want a good bottle of wine. Union College College Center Wednesday, September 26 noon to 8 p.m. A. 0. C.'s Opportunities - \What the programs' might mean to you . . .. or why ifs purpose doesn't really matter unless you decide to give a damn .... With such a dramatic introduction, l'pi sure that you as readers have visions possibly of the ~eginning of an. interesting movie plot or of a new Watergate expose.· Well, I hate to disappoint you, but the story that I'm about to tell is neither new nor adaptable for movie production. H is merely an account of a very disappointing look at the reactions of a college community towards the existence of a worthwhile program which seeks to deny education to none. I offer my observations to you in both the belief that in making you a more informed ·community, you can more accurately respond to your environment ancl in the hope that we can work together to e I i m i n a t e s o me · of t h e misconceptions which affect not only the A.O.C. Program but campus relations as a whole. As a source of authority for my observations,. f offer you three . years of experience with the Adrqi&sions Office at Union which, as _you know, is tantamount to an equal number of years of indirect association to 'the College and a total of two months as having become official co-ordinator of the A.O.C. Program. But regardless of the time spent here, I have felt,. and tolerated, and regretted a lifetime of similar reactions, And l feel that now it's \time to git down.\ A.O.C. are the initials of Academic Opportunity Consortium. The program, which has other components on the campuses at Skidmore, R.P.I.. Siena, and Russell Sage, is designed to ( I) guarantee that the underachiever, the financially and educationally disadvantaged student may find acceptance in a college program and (2) to support the student in academic ateas that demonstrate fundamental deficiencies in developmental skills. This purpose, one with which I think we can all agree, supports. a 377-0510 by Leroy Moore Asst. Dean. of Students foundati~n which any college should be proud of. It both provides forand protects thedght and the opportunity for disadvantaged students .to gain access to higher education. 1 n 1969, at the inception of the program a.t i.Jnion, I'm sure that the tot?l C()llege community was excited by this concept arid anticipatecl its necessary role in carrying out such a worthwhile involvement. For us thi~ involvement, regardless of its moral or hllmane overtones, was dramatically called for and sincerely wei<Jomed. History dictates, however, that we face the fact that in successive years thereafter the program (at least externally) has been allowed to faU into a state of virtual disrepair and disG~ntent. The following are just a few of my observations of what ,has contributed to the malaise. First, the program seems to enjoy a very low level of visibility. l·n some <JUarters in fact, there is the rather extreme sentiment that it should have no visibility at all. Reasons diTectly attributed to these reactions, it would seem to . me, stem from a number of insensitive elements in the Union atmosphere: (I) general lack of knowledge on the part· of the Union. community as to the . nature of the program, (2) an omissioll: from the system of education here of any sensitivities . ~to specific deficiencies in students' fundamental skills, (3) debilitating stereotypes of the participants in the program, and (4) an unconsdous victimization of the A.O.C. student who himself comes to believe the disparaging things reported about him. From all <>f this, I believe that there i5 so.me degree of amazeme11t as to how the program lias lasted this long. And it is by no stretch of the imaginati<>n · an unheralded truth that the continuence of this program has been paid ~r by the frustratio11, anxiety, and failure of the A.nc. students whom Union each year actively recruits or enrolls. Second, with respect to the question. concerning the value of 346-9309 recruiting disadvantaged students, dae following attitudes emerge. 'It is felt th&t admissions standards are being jeopardi~ed, financial n id to the students is being squandered, and tnat eyery A.O.C. student is either ineducable .Cil.t least as prescribed by the elitist Ivy League Syndrome at Union) or Black. I submit that these p.revalent attitudes are direct violations of the way ihat.any college hopes to reinforce a stade.nt's self-concept of worth and the respect of others. ln place of this racist environment should be .a more pruductiv~ ~nv,iron,ment of confidence, respect, am;l support. Until this is achieved: not only is A.O.C. in· danger but all of human relationsat Union as well. Finally, my last observation is one of hop,e. A.O.C.; in practice just as in theory, can Work. In its short history, fi:ve students have already survived the almost insurmountable odds against success. Thirty other students remain. I would hope that we can make their lives less hectic than those who've suff~red before them . There are a few Union College professors, students, and administrators who care. I haye called upon them to assist me in returning the program to its rightful position of visibility and· worth and in re-building it to a system of education and humanity that denies none • Won't you help? Library Continued from Page 5 number of faclllty members are cqmmitted. WIIat ·is needed mo~t of all is student cooperation .. Ferro's Pharmacy Has anyone· gone into a state university library! Chances. are there were guards at the door who checked the people leaving the library ... 1984..:ish, but necessary. The question is ~ will it be necessary at Union? Only time will tell . , . Please, don't wait for this. Check all library books out and return them by the due date. If you aren't through using the book, renew it! If you see another person tearing pages out of a librl!;ry book - shoot him! If everyone did 'What some do in terms of stealing books, our library's name would have to be changed to the Memorial Library of Schaeffer Library. 575 Nott St., Schenecta-dy Welcomes Union Students ······------········ 10% Discount With This Coupon 10% (Note: Any gripes or suggestions for the library should be brought to Dr. Tolan or one of the students on the Library Committee.: Meredith August, Carol Meyer, Hunt Eggleston.) -----------····---· Levrs Dave's Mens Shop 453 State St. ( downto.wn Schenectady) EARN TOP MONEY! . Part time promoting student travel. Call or write (include your telephone number): VAGABOND TOURS; 242 .East 80th Street, New York, N.Y. 10021 (212) 53$· 9840. Georg~'s Music Store· 508 State St. Schenectady Tel. 374·5921 College Discount DRUG • PBOBLE'-S CAN RAVE A SOLUTION IN NEW YORK CITY CALL: 246,9300 ELSEWHERE IN NEW YORK STATE CALL: 800-522-2193 (toll-free) Theater T1 by charten October 20·. theater or trB Ullmann in week for det * Ther:e wi Committee r October 1st, House Stm meeting is < who wish te M '• . Continu successor wi strong an(! changes tha future. He ·I the wish that say to myst from now,, 1 about-Unic faculty, and strength wis given whoe· President th give in a c because U nic to them or simply becat Continu that it is maintain a fr various peor In fact, while the other da) and demandc the Dean ros think he m foot-six) the off in terror was merely appointment later time w~ ·busy. I hope tha administrat menibers wii: Hav

CONCORDIENSlS?·, Tuesday, September 25, 1973 Theater Trip to New York City hy chartered bus: Saturday, October 20·. Those interested in theater or transportation see Prof. Ullmann in H umani.ties 214 this week for details. * * * * There will be a Steering Committee meeting on Monday, October lst, at 9:00P.M. in Hale House Student Lounge. The meeting is open to all students who wish ta attend. * * * * Martin Continued from .page 1 successor will find that Union is strong and ready to handle the changes that will come in the future. He then concluded with the wish that \I hope to be able to say to myself two or ten years from now,, whcil I read or hear about-Union,... that students, faculty, and staff have used that strength wisely, that they have given whoever serves next. as President the best they have to give in a common cause, not because Union belongs to him or to them or to anyone else,. but simply because Union belongs.\ * * '* * There will be an 'organizatitmal meeting for all members, new and old, of the Concordy Photo Staff on Mond,ay, October I, at 7:00 P.M. in the Concordy Office, 3rd floor Student Center. Everyone and anyone is welcome. Be there! * * * * Anyone' interest~d in working nn the '74 Yearbook in any capacity is welcome to come to an organizational meeting on Thursday, Sept. 27 at 8 P.M. in R,oom 304 in the Student Center. All questions will be gladly answered. * * * * SPORT ·PARACHUTING!!! We're trying to get a club to promote the sport at Union. If you are a jumper ot would like to learn, contact Mark Foster at Phi Sigma Kappa or call 346-9735. •* * * * The Pet Court reminds everyone that the only pets allowed on c~mpus now are dogs registered last year. Starting October l the court will accept complaints and issue\' fines of not less than $50 to offenders. If yo~ have any questions or complaints. please. contact John Van Horne at 107 South, 346-9396. There are still some 1977 Freshman Records available. The cost is $1.00 for freshman and $4.00 for upperclassmen. They can be bought in the Student Activities Office or in 215 Fox. A few 1974 and 1976 Freshman Records are also available. * * * * All students wh.o are ~esidents of Nassau County and wish to apply for an absentee ballot for the November election, contact Robert M ondschein, 113 South. Tel. 346-9396. * * * * The Fa11 Term Blood Drive will be held on October 9th and IGth between the hours nf II :00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m. in the Alumni Gym. The dormitory floor or fraternity house with the greatest percentage of participation in the blood drive will receive, free of charge, ' one half keg of beer. Please - your participation ir:. the drive is very much needed. The blood collected might be badly needed, either by someone else or by a loved one of your own. * * * * \Dear--~..... .Dean . Smith On behalf of the tutorial program at Union, I'd like to thank you for the interest and concern that you've demonstrated in donating your time and assistanc;e in the effort of helping us to help othe'rs. We consider that your assistance is not only vital to the success of the program but is essentia·l for the academic . . Continued from page 1 that it is often difficult to maintain a train of thought as the various people pour in and out. In fact, while I was talking to him the other day, a squirrel barged in and demanded equal time; When the Dean rose to his full height (I. think he must be about eight- foot-six) the poor squirrei. toak off in terror, although the Dean was merely trying to .set up an appointment with him at some later time when he wouldn't be so busy. I hope that more students and administration and faculty members wiil follow suit. Stop for , growth of some of your fellow a minute and find out what makes students. the other guy tick. You'd be Now that you have volunteered surprised how much you can to tutor ... \ learn. . . This is the beginning of a letter So now we have the impetus. which could be sent to you as We have added. a tremendously volunteer t~tor:s. If you don't talented and personable man to receive one this year IT'S ONLy our already impressive staff, and BECAUSE YOU DC>N'T CARE' we have an intelligent and For information on. how t~ involved_ st~dent ~?dy. These are join, please contact the tutorial the bas1c mgredtents. What we office located in Stoller Hall or need to .add now . ~s more call D~an Leroy Moore at 6i 79. understandmg, compasswn, and Thank you. genuine .goodwill among all of us. * * * * The task is not impossible; with The Oswald D. Heck School dedication and universal for Handicapped Children needs commitment definite .change is help: Friday's (all day). Everyday foreseeable· for the very near Il-L Call Karen Collins 370-2995 future. or (home) 783-0446. It goes to your head Have The New York Times delivered on campus Mon-Sat Mon-.Sun Contact James Benfield Beta :rheta Pi Union College 377-9837 Fall Term $ 6.85 13.60 Full Year $22.30 44.80 Daily subscription rates are below the newsstand price. Hortense Calisher, the prolific writer whose most recent books are the novel Standard Dreaming and the auto-biographical Herself, will give a reading of her works Wednesday, Sept. 26, at Union CoJiege. The program, the first in the 1973~74 lecture series, is set for~ P.M. in the auditorium of the Social Sciences Building. Originally a short story writer, critic, and essayist' Miss Calisher was almost 40 years old before her first novel was published. Nine books later she came out with Standard Dreaming and Herself, published simultaneously a year ago this month. The autobiographical work was nominated for the 1972 National Book Award. \They do not love that do not show their love.\ William Shakespeare Choose Keepsake with complete confidence, because the famous Keepsake Gt.!.aJ;an.t~e ~ assures a perfect · \ engagement diamond of precise cut and superb colar .. Thereis. no finer diamond ring. T-M Reg. A. H. Pond Co. HOW TO PLAN YOUR ENGAGEMENT AND WEDDiNG l Send new 20 pg. booklet, \Planning Your Engagement and Wedding\ plus 1 full color folder and 44 pg. Bride's Book gift offer all for only 25¢. F-73 I Name I (PlCI.l.St Print) I Md~n I I City Co. I I l' St~:~te · · · . . . ·. Zip . . I :_ ~~:~~~ ~~~ND_R_!_~S.:_ ~:: ~·_!::.~::r~·-N~Y.:_ !:,2~ -~

I ' Page8 Tuesda~. September 25,, 1973 Union Embarrassed X-Country Wins by Worcester 20 ... 0 by BILLY MARKS· Union's ~illy Galarneau, who The Union College cro~s- attend~ Albany Pharmacy of .country .team previewed its season Union Univetsity, garnered fourth last Wednesday Q.y nipping >the. place in 30:24 an<j: Union iced the Siena harriers 27-28 in a pre-· victory by grabbing 6th, 7th and by MARK W. MINDEL The best defense is .a good offense, but Union's was impotent enough Saturday to set up aU three scores in the Garnet's opening 20-0 loss to Worcester Poly. lt was the first loss to W.P.I. since 1944. The two teams battled scorelessly in ~he opening half. Snph linebacker Brian. Colby snatched up an Engineer fumble ! ! SENIORS ! ! The fall interview schedule is rapidly filling up. Do NOT forget te get to the Placement Office and sign up. Even if you are not sure of your future plans - it is a good experience to have as many interviews as possible. Visit the Placement Office and sign up!!! By October 5, 1973. OCTOBER 10 Chicago OCTOBER 16 Amos Tuck OCTOBER 16 Johnson Service Company Columbia OCTOBER 17 Peace Corps and VISTA OCTOBER 18 University of Pennsylvania - Wharton School of Finance OCTOBER 18 Claremont College Grad Schools of Liberal Arts, Claremont, California. OCTOBER 22 University of Rochester OCTOBER 23 New York University OCTOBER 30 Electronic Data Systems, Training Program OCTOBER 30 Syracuse University NOVEMBER 12 Fe de r a 1 H i g h w a y Ad ministration ( C i vi I Engineers) NOVEMBER 14 lobe-Coburn School of Fashion Careers - Retailing NOVEMBER 15 Harvard Business School NOVEMBER 16 Northwestern NOVEMBER 16 University of Michigan NOVEMBER 16 -Combustion Engineering NOVEMBER 28 Firestone Tire and Rubber Co. - (Management, Financial, and Tech.) Pan American Airlines will be interviewing in Albany on October 16 and 17. Pick up application in Placement Office. Written exam for Foreign Service Officers - December 8, 1973 - Applications in Placement Office. Admission Test for Grad St11d~ in Business. Confused???! Hiding your head in the sand?! Work or Grad School?! What to do after graduation?! Visit the Placement Office and we'll talk about it!! AU students interested in business school - Please note that Wharton University of Pennsylvania has been added to the list. Will all seniors who have signed up for fall interviewing please come to Placement and fill out a green form, if you have not already done so! on the W.P.l. 46 but Coach Ger.ry Everling's charges ground to a halt on the ten and a Lou Mi:ller 27-yard field goal attempt went wide. Worcester marched inside the Garnet ten at the end gf the half, but a spirited tJ nion defense strengthened to stop the threat. In the sec<:md half the offense and its punting unit handed Poly the game. Midway through the third quarter Gary Schwartz returned a MiNer punt 40 y:uds to the Dutchmen ten. Bob Simon swept around end for the first of two TO's and Worcester converted for a 7-0 r~ad. In the fourth quarter the Engineers turned a Union fumble on the 26 yard' line into a. score, and came right back on a 43-yard Continued on Page 3 season scrimmage. Sopb strider Sth places. · · Steve J«mes paced the TeQ Bick John Dolen was a pl~asant coached squad by taking second surprise in sixth ;place, while place behind Siena super nrnner s(;':nior captain Crawford Cutts Joe R ~kunshigisha, who set the and co-hort Mark Mind,el ins:Ured new course record at 27;59;. the victory with good J onesy did the 5!;4 mile course in performances over the last half 29:04 and outkicked Siena~s other mile. top notch n,mner Chris Dailey. Cutts shook off nagging pains to overtake Siena's 4th man up the Nott Street hill, while Mindel outleane<l the sa·me man at the Another Pre-Seaso,n Soccer ·Story tape. The haTriers, thinned by the fall · ineligitbili:ty of NCAA half-miter Tim McCabe, hope fer improved performances from sophs Clete Boyer, Paul Spence, Greg Meyevs, John Hallenbeck and Bill Fellows and junior Marine sargeant Freddie : Pressley. freshman Stan Wiskowski, who just came out, ran im unbelievable 29:.55 performance in a time trial. by LEE RlMSKY Every year, just aboutthis time, the same thing happens in every school throughout the country. Preseason soccer draws to a close and the introductory · soccer article is printed in the school newspapers. And in eVery single instance, that article raves about how great the soccer team is and what a great season they're going to have. It boasts of what great individual performers are retnrning and what team honors they will undoubtedly win. However, the team invariably never pans out to be as spectacular as the article predicts. In fact, rarely does it reach heights any more dizzying than mediocrity, finishing instead with winning percentages very similar to those that were in the past and will always be in the future. It is up to me and this year's Union soccer team to break with this tradition. And interestingly enough, I have no intention of writing anything different from all those other preseason soccer articles I mentioned above. What will be different, however, is that this year's team will live up to my highly optimistic predictions - it will be a great team, they will have a great season (barring any key injuries), they do .have some great individuals returning, and they may very well win some prestigious team honors! Now the details. First year coach Bob McGee has done a remarkable job· of getting the squad ready for the oncoming season. They are tough, disciplined, in shape, and· confident. Anyone who was witness to their only scrimmage against Berkshire Community College, whom they easily disposed of 6-2, has no choice but to agree. And there is one main reason for the team coming along as quickly as it has: competition. Of the 22 members of the team ( 12 sophomores), not one has clinched a starting pos1t10n. Forwards Craig Jeffries, . John Serbetzian, Richard Earl, John Denio, Dickie Samuels, Miles Hirson, and Jim Philip; halfbacks Mark Brickley, (co-captain), Doug Moran, Don Ward, Dave Van Arnum, Dave Sanderson, Torn Richardson, and Steve Hill; fullbacks Sandy Wilder (co- captain), Olaf Neilson, Bob Grossman, Tim Fitzgerald, Jim Bacharach, and AI Ritchie; and goalies John Busterud and T.om Baca are all fighting to win those coveted eleven starting positions. And to make matters even more confusing, Mark Brickley is seeing a lot of action at inside, Dave Van Arnum at fullback, and Olaf Neilson at halfback. Then, to top it all off, Coach McGee is . experimenting with tWo -different formations: a 4-2-4 and a 4-3·3. There's one more thing I'd like to discuss .. When I go to a game (it doesn't matter what sport), and I'm unfamiliar with the team,- I like to know which individual players I should ·pay particular attention to. That's not to say that soccer is not a team sport, because it is. That is just to say that some individuals play a lar.ger role than others, or may just be more exciting. Anyway; Craig Jeffries and John Serbetzian will probably be the starting insjdes and high scorers for the team. They both have excellent moves, strong shots, and are very interesting to follow. Sandy Wilder is the other one to watch. He plays fullback and will undoubtedly be the maifispring of the defense. He also has good moves ani:J is a masterful ·defensive player. If you are an inexperienced soccer fan, these three individuals will never fail t9 s'how you good soccer. The team is away at Rochester and WiUiarns on October 3rd and 6th, respectively. Their first home game is October lOth with Hamilton. Get ouf and support your team, it's a great sport! tevrs· Dave's. Mens Shop 453 State St. (downtown Sch~nectady) NO.TICE: THE LAYOUT SESSION SCHEI)ULED FOR, NEW CONCORDY MEMBERS ON WEDNESDAY EVENING HAS ·BEEN CHANGED TO THURSPA Y. IT WILL BE HELD IN THE CONCORDY OFFICE ON THE THIRD FLOOR OF THE STUDENT CENTER AT 7:30 P.M. ALL THOSE WHO ATTENDED MONDAY NIGHT AND ANYONE INTERESTED IN NEWSPA~ER LAYOUT PLEASE COME ON UP. · . Starting September 1st, the toughest drug law in.the country begins in New York State. Its purpose is to force the addicts, the junkies, the pushers to get help for themselves or get off the streets. ·Narcotics are not the only drugs involved. - Barbiturates, amphetamines, hallucinogens and other types of drugs are included in the law too. . You may be using. prescriptions that have these drugs in \them. But as long as you have a legal prescription for them, you will. not be affeCted by the new law. A legal prescription for legitimate mediCal reasons. Issued by a . physician or practitioner.. · . However, if you don't have a legal prescription for your drugs, you could be in trouble. . Find out more about ·the law. Fo:r more inforiP:ation call24S~9300 in New York City: Anywhere else m New York State call (800) 522~2193. TolUree. Or write: Drugs, Box 8200, Albany; N.Y. 12203. Do~J'I gel caught holding.lhe bag. ·rhe New York State Drug Abuse Program. F11il ' ! Ot ~:? I (; ~ I !:. WP j

