bers, 1 is te in an f. vhile you 1 the tion port also It a out 'u r ~ed. ing to on IOn \he s1a ce. nt. >th ed ift ed In ry ld lg 1e ld founded at Union College ~,; 1877 · · ~ Recycle ~his .Paper~ - Vol. 102, No. 52 Friday, June 1. 1973 Former Editor Reflects by LOUIS S. SNITKOFF Ed. Note: Mr. Snitkoff is a former edito.r-·in-chief of Concordiensis. Colleges s~em to be unique in their ability to adapt to the demands of society with constant internal change and, at the same time, with little evidence of major revitalization. In many respects, this is a necessar.y defense mechanism. required to preserve the college as a place which must be more concerned with learning than with politics and more interested in the intrinsic problems of an educational system than in the broader enigmas lurking beyond its gates. Indeed, many observers have scored Union students for their collective lack of interest in \the world around· them\ and have lauded the faculty for · being \more liberal,\ as a group, than the student body. But spending . four years at Union is a uniquely personal experience for each student, as well as a group-shared experience, ideally involving the entire College community. For the student whose experience is limited to the inside of the library or for the, one who fails to maintain his individuality half of the process is mis~ing. · · ·Because we tend· to take things for granted, it is difficult to notice ~hange on a daily basis. At most scho(}]s, and especially at Union, significant things usually don't happen overnight. But, over a long period of time, change is much easier to discern, and it is clear that - in many respects - Union is not the same \small liberal arts college\ described in Barron's College Guide in 1968. Four yea.rs. l:lgQ, . <;:oncordy prrnt¢$:1 'tf-i,a.~e a~.n'?uncing the appointment 1 of a girls' de<,1n, to help deal with the problems of coeducation. At that time, the only Union females were in faculty and staff, and North College housed the Concordy offices and the few guys who were closed out qf the pther dorms. Another article spoke of a tuition raise to $2400, and a third reported .several cases of parietal abuse. Now, of course, tuition nears $3000 and - despite reservations in some sections - open dorms are the assumption everywhere. The announcement of a 1969 campus lecture by an anti-war senator named George McGovern leaves uneasy echoes of a disastrous November. 1972. But, countless articles about Vietnam and the Moratorium resurrect memories of some of the finest hours in the last four years at Union, ancl some of the darke~t in the history ofAmerica. Memories of Spring 1970, of Kent State and Cambodia, of Strike Central, David Snider, and Brother Free Wi11. Memories of the one single effort in four years where Union knew a unity and solidarity which everyone thought could \never happen here.\ People who wonder about the change in atmosphere and activism since then often overlook the fact that the last group of students present that spring is graduating this spring. But, the inability to see myself as an alumnus is as hard to overcome as is the tendency to reminisce and to categorize. Despite all the mediocre days, the Schenectady Grey Days, the rainy days, and the frozen days, certain things remain particularly outstanding. These aFe retrospectively categorized below: The Ten Most Memorable Occasions: The Davidson Fire, Jean Shepherd, The 1970-71 Wrestling Season, B. B. King, Spring 1970, Jimmy Tedisco vs. Hamilton, The MCAT's, Patrick Sky, The ECAC Basketball Tournament and The Bernhardt-Delfin-·' Drayton-Parisi Coffeehouse. The Ten Most Memorable People: Prof. Hans Freund, Mr. D.Y. H ohnes, Prof. Clare (}raves, Mrs. Lorraine Marra, Mrs. Audrey Snowden, Prof. Raymond Rappaport, Prof. Ruth Stevenson,· Mr. Jonathan Pearson, The Pre-Medical Advisory Committee, Mr. Joe Gottwald. The Thirteen Worst DisasteJ:s: The Davidson Lounge, Five- Man Suites, Tenure, The old registration system, The old infirmary, The new infirmary, The power failure in the SCience Center; The emergency showers in fhe Science Center, The Flood in Jackson's Gardens, Freshman Orientation (stand up, Ross), The Sage Mixer, Commencement 1972, West College. The Worst Administrative Decision: The legalization of dogs in 1972. The Best Administrative Decision: The banning of dogs in 1973. The Most Overrated Issue: The stuccoing of Humanities and. Social Sciences. The Most Underrated Issue: Security. The· Yearly Departed: Prof. David Snider, P;rof. Alan Maycock, R. Gordon Bingham. Dean Malloy and Prof. Carl Niemeyer, the Class of 1973~ Of cOurse, summaries of this type cannot do justice to the time and ,energy any of us have spent here. Inasmuch as they are an inadequate means of portraying . . A program Hlat will include formal groundbreaking ceremonies for the new wing of Schaffer Library will be held this Saturday (June 2) beginning at 4:3C..P .M. in SS 016. The program will include a discussion of the true story of how the stolen Audubon prints were returned to tlnion. starring Texas book dealer John .Jenkins. Jenkins will receive a medal from the College during the ceremonies. A major part of this affair will honor Henry J .. Schaffer; the chief benefactor of the Library and of the new addition. Mr. Schaffer has donated several millions .of dollars to the Library. He will attend the ceremonies, and all students are invited to come and show their appreciation of his efforts in the Ubrary's behalf. this writer's feelings, their • applicability in a ·collective sense is even more dubious. It is only hoped that, as each of you read this. some of the figures and in.cidents mentioned seein familiar t6 your mind's eye. For every student, faculty member, and administrat0r leaving Union this year, there are at least three people staying on. They are the basis of continuity, tradition and change. But, our re~ponsibility to the College is not any less than theirs. To them, and to Union, we owe our support in the years ahead, with the hope to contribute, in some way, toward achieving the goals not reached while we were here. v:~mna and Seville Spring term abroad .programs for 1974 are beginning to take shape now. See Prof. Warde in Modem Languages for • r t\ d J\ • ~ Jr•,orma JOn an app J•':ltJons. ~ President Harold C. Martin who received a comhined good-excellent rating of 56% in the Concordiensis survey. For more survey results see page ,tight ol this issue of Concordy. Concordy Interviews;. Dr. Willard ~Roth . by MITCH WEISBURGH Concordy: What problems have you had conductin,g your research at a small college .like Union that does not have some of the expensive equipment that you had at Harvard? Or. Roth: With regard to specific details of equipment - nobody will join the Union faculty if there is inadequate equipment for him to conduct his research. Thus, shortage of equipment influences more specific details in my individual case, arid I believe in the cases l>f many of my colleagues in the Biology Department. The biggest lack in terms of hardware are maiqtenance facilities, such as anjmal rooms, greenhouse facilities, etc., i.e. the paramount problem for anyone conducting research in biology is obviously organisms. Here we hope to improve the situation when we can obtain adequate funds to build major maintenance facilities in the basement of the Science a~d Engineering building. This was part of my long range planning when I came to Union, before I actually physically was on campus. Former Dean Palmer and I went to Washington to ascertain whether federal funds might be obtained if we had proper buildiflg facilities. Their reaction was favorable and President Martin responded by getting the unfinished part of the basement under the Biology wing constructed according to the specifications they outlined. However, I hope I will not have to detail what has happened to Federal funds since that time. Nevertheless, it still has remained a long term plan of the College to add these facilities, and I have assisted in making proposals to private foundations in an effort to obtain funds. Here it was clear from the outset that such facilities would require time before they could be realized, and therefore when I came to Union it was with the knowledge that I would have to operate for an indefinite amount of time on such facilities as the College and my own Federal grants could provide. The College community has been very good in assisting with constructing a temporary greenhouse, and in helping us equip the limited animal facilities we have so that present facilities can maintain ad.equate research and teaching programs, and new faculty members understand that when they make a commitment to come here. The difficulty for us is more imposed by the current' severe restrictions in support of research in general than by the specific physical limitations at Union, l believe it is not arrogant to postulate that were the national priorities for research as high as they were 5-10 years ago, that nearly all of the Biology faculty at Union would enjoy a high level of outside support. Now, the limitations of biological research are as much imposed by the lack of personnel for assistants as they are. by equjpment shortages. I believe that most of the Biology faculty could achieve substantial, indeed impressive, increases in research output if they could obtain more in the way of research assistants. Clearly, personnel is one of the greatest and least flexible costs for a college, and therefore it just is not feasible to ask that they incorporate expenditures in this area at the present time. Fortunately, all of us here are committed to teaching, as much as to research. Most of us find the two inseparable in our attitudes towards scholarship in general. We also have the advantage of the substantial numbers of Union students interested m doing research with us. Concordy: Does the lack of research facilities and equipment affect the type of professors you try to attract? Dr. Roth: Clearly certain fields of Biology are categorically excluded fr.om our faculty because they require elaborate and expensive equipment which we cannot presume to seek. Among these are such fields as advanced neurophysiology, certain aspects of molecular biology, and the like. Concordy: What type of professor do you try to attract? How old, with what attitude toward teaching, at what level of achievement? Continued on page 8 Saga's Provisions Special to Concordy Mr. Harold Usher. Director of Business and Facilities Operations, disclosed Wednesday the provisions of the contract which Union has just signed with Saga Food Service. At this point the terms are conditi~nal -- they are subject to final approval by Usher and the new Dean of Students. Next fall. all freshmen will take the twenty-meal plan at West College: as in the past. this will be mandatory. This plan. consisting of all: twenty meah offe1·ed each week. will cost $230 per term, and will also be available for upperclassmen. A fourteen-meal plan will he offered in addition to upperclassmen. with an alteration that ·the student would be permitted to take any two of the three mceals each day: he might choose to eat breakfast and lunch, and is not limited to only lunch and dinner. as the present fourteen-meal plan stipulates. The student need not be consistent: he may take breakfast and dinner one day. and lunch and dinner the next. This plan will be offered to lreshrneri too. beginning winter term. The cost of fourteen meals per week for nne term will he $210. No seven·meal plan will be offered.

Jers, is e in an hile you the ion lOft 1lso t a :lllt ur ~d. rig to on [)n he ;ia :e. lt. th :d ft d n· 'Y d g e d '· I founded at Union College in 1877 · · ~ Recycle ~his _Paper~ Vol. 102, No. 52 Friday, June t. 1973 ·F·ormer Editor Reflects by :LOUIS S. SNITKOFF Will. Memories of the one single Ed. Note: Mr. Snitkoff is a effort in four years where Union form.er editor-in-chief of knew a unity and solldafity which Concwdiensis. everyQri.e thought could \never Colleges s~em to be unique in happen here.\ their ability to adapt to the People who wonder about the demands of society with constant change in atmosphere and internal change and, at the same activism since then often overlook tim.e. with little evidence of major the fact that the last group of revitalization. In many- respects, students present that spring is this is a necessa•ry defense graduating this spring. But, the mechanism, required to preserve inability to see myself as an the college as a place which must alumnus is as hard to overcome be more concerned with learning as is the tendency to reminisce than with politics and more and t9 categorize. Despite 1111 the i nteres.ted m the intrinsic mediocre days, the Schenectady problems of an educational Grey Days, the rainy days,. and system than in the broader the frozen days, certain things enigmas lurking beyond its gates. remain particularly outstanding. Indeed, many observers have These are . retrospectively scored Union students for their categorized below: collective lack of interest in \the The Ten Most world amundc them\ and have Memorable Occasions: lauded the faculty for , being The Davidson Fire, Jean this writer's f~elings, their ~ applicability in a collective sense is even more dubious. lt is only hop.ed ~hat, as each of you read this, some of the figures and ·intidents mentioned seem familiar t6 your mind's eye. For eve.ry student, faculty member, and administrator leaving Union this year, there are at least three people staying 011. They are the basis of continuity, tradition and change. But, our re~ponsibility to the College is not any less than theirs. To them, and· to Union, we owe our .support in The years ahead, with the hope to contribute, in some Way, toward .achieving the goals not reached while we Were here. v;enna and Seville Spring · term abroad programs for 1974 are beginning to take shape now. See Prof. Warde in Modern Languages for • r t• d I' ' ~ 'r'10rma JOn an app J•':ttlons. 4 President Harold C. Martin who received a combined good~excellent rating of 56% in the Concordiensis survey. For more survey results s.ee page ,f!ight of this issue of Concordy. .. more liberal,\ as a group, than Shepherd, The 1.970..,71 Wrestling the student body. But spending. Season, B.B. King, Spring 1970, four years at Union is a uniquely Jimmy Tedisco vs. Hamilton, The personal experience for each' MCAT's, Patrick Sky, The ~ student, as well as a group~shared ECAC Basketball Tournament ~ experience, id~ally involving the and The Bernhardt-Delfin~/ entire College community. For Drayton-Parisi Coffeehouse. the student who.se experience is The T~n Most Concordy Interviews: limited to the inside pf :the library . Memorable People: or f<>r the_ one who fails to p· 'f H - F d Nf o y . ro . . ans . reu11 , ·r. . . maintain his individuality half of Holmes, Pro:f. Clare Graves, Mrs. the process is missing. Lorraine Marra, Mrs. Audrey -· ~s~cause: we tend· to take things Snowden, Prof. R.aymond · for gtanted, it is difficult to notice R a p p a p 0 r t , Pr 0 f. R u t h yhange on a d~ily basis. At most Stevenson,· Mr. Jonathan schools, and especiaUy at Union, Pearson, The Pre~Medical significant things usually don't Advisory Committee, Mr. Joe happen overnight. But, over a Gottwald. long period .of time, change is The Thirteen much easier to discern, and it is Worst Disasters: clear that - in many respects - The Davidson Lounge, Five- Union is not the. same \small M s ·t T Th ld an ·m es, eaure, e o liberal arts .college\ described in Barron's College Guide in 1968. registration system, The old . · infirmary, The new infirmary, Four · .~e\~f;S • _pgp, · · (:oncordy · The power failure in the Science pr.i:nte.(i ~fi.,a~¥-fe a?.Uf?Uncing the . C-enter, The·en'ietgency showers in appointjlU.!n~ of a gitl$' de~n. to· the Science Ceitter, The Flood in help deal with the .problems of coeducation. At that time, the Jackson's Gardens, Freshman only Union females. were in Orientation (stand up, Ross), The Sage Mt'xer, Com'mencement faculty and, staff, and North College housed the Concordy 1972 • West College. offices and the few guys who were The \Vorst closed out, Qf th~. pther dorms. Administrative Decision: Another article spoke of a tuition The legalization of dogs in tais~ to $2400, and a third 1972. reported several cases of parietal abuse. Now, of course, tuition nears $3000 and despite. reservations in some sections - open dorms are the assumption The llest Administrative Decision: The banning of dogs. 'in 1973. The Most Overrated Issue: '· everywhere. The announcement ·of a 1969 campus lecture by an anti-war senator named George McGovern leaves uneasy echoes of a disastrous November, 1972. But, countless articles about Vietnam and the Moratorium resurrect memories of some of the finest hours in the last four years ~t Union, and some of the darkest in the history .of Ame~ica. Mem~ries of Spring 1970, of Kei:lt State and Cambodia, of Strike Central, David Snider, and Brother Free The stuccoing of Humanities and, Social Sciences. The Most Underrated Issue: Security. The- Yearly Departed: Prof. David Snider, Prof. Alan Maycock, R. Gordon Bingham, Dean Malloy and Prof. Carl Niemeyer, the Class of 1973~ Of. course, summaries of this type cannot do justice to the time and ~nergy any of us have spent here. Inasmuch as fhey are an inadequate means of portraying :· ' .... A program that ~ill include formal groundbreaking ceremonies for the new wing of Schaffer Library will be held this Saturday (June 2) begbming at 4:30.P.M. in SS 016. The program will include a discussion of the true story of how the stolen Audubon prints were returned to Union, starring Texas book dealer John Jenkins. Jenkins will receive a tn~clad from the College during the ceremopies. A major part o( this aff~ir will honor Henry J. S~haffer; the chief benefactor of the Library and of the new addition. Mr. Schaffer has donated several millions .of doliars to the l.ibtary. He will attend the ceremonies, aod aU students are invited to come and show their appreciation of his .efforts in the Library's behalf. Dr. Willard ·Roth i by MITCh ~EISBURGH Concordy: What problems have you had conducting your research at a small college like Union that does not h!lve some of the expensive equipment that you had at Harvard? Dr. Roth: With regard to specific details of equipment - nobody will join the Union faculty if there is inaQequate equipment for him to conduct his research. Thus, shortage of equipment influences more specific details in my indi~idual case, arid I believe in the cases. uf many of my colleagues in the Biology Department. The biggest lack in terms of hardware are mail}tenance facilities, such as animal · rooms, greenhouse facilities, etc., Le. the paramount pro'blem for anyone conducting research in .biology is obviously organisms. Her~ we hope to improve the situation when we can obtain adequate funds to build major maintenance facilities ilJ. the basement of the Science and Engineering building. This was part of my long range planning when I carne to Union, before l actu,ally physically was on campus. Former Dean Palmer and I went to Washington to ascertain whether federal funds might be obtained if we had proper buildil'lg facilities. Their reaction was favorable and President Martin responded by getting the unfinished part of the basement urtder the Biology wing constructed according to the specifications they outlined. However, I hope I will not have to detail what has happened to Federal funds since that time. Nevertheless, it s-till has remained a long term plan of the College to add these facilities, and I have assisted in making proposals to private foundations in an effort to obtain funds. Here it was clear from the outset that such facilities would require time before they could be realized, and therefore when I came to Union it was with the knowledge that I would have to operate for an indefinite amount of time on such facilities as the College and my own Federal grants could provide. The College community has been very good in assisting with constructing a temporary greenhouse, and in helping us equip the limited .animal facilities we have so that present facilities can maintain ad,equate research and teaching programs, and new faculty members understand that when they make a commitment to come here. The difficulty for us is more imposed by the current' severe restrictions in support of research in general than by the specific physical limitations at Union. I believe it is not arrogant to postulate that were the national priorities for research as hi~h as they were 5-10 years ago, that nearly all of the Biology faculty at Union Would enjoy a high level of outside support. Now, the limitations of biological research are as much imposed by the lack of personnel for assistants as they are. by equjpmeot shortages. I be'Iieve that most of the Biology faculty could achieve substantial, indeed impressive, increases in research output if they could obtain more in the way of research assistants. Clearly, personnel is one of the greatest and least flexible ~osts for a college, and therefore it just is not feasible to ask that they incorporate expenditures in this area at the .present time. Fortunately, aU of us here are committed to teaching~ as much as to research. Most of us find the two inseparable in our attitudes towards scholarship in general. We also have the advantage of the substantial numbers of Union students interested 1 n doing research with us. Concordy: Does the lack of research facilities and equipment affect the type of professors you try to attract? Or. Roth: Clearly certain fields of Biology are categorically excluded f.rom our faculty because they requfre elaborate and expensive equipment which we cannot presume to seek. Among these are such fields as advanced neurophysiology, certain aspects of molecular biology, and the like. Concordy: What type of professor do you try to attract? How old, with what attitude toward teaching, at what level <>f achievement? Continued on page 8 Saga's Provisions Special to Concordy Mr. Harold Usher, Director of Business and Facilities Operations, disclosed Wednesday the provisions of the c-ontrnct which Union has just signed with Saga Food Service. At this point the terms are ~ondifional -- they are subject to final approval l>y Usher and the new Dean of Students. Next faR all freshmen will take the twenty-meal plan at West College: as in the past, this will be mandatory. This plan, consisting of all twenty meal's offered each week. will cost $230 per term, an<l will also be aval.lahJe for upperclassmen. A fourteen-meal phm will he offered in addition to upperclassmen. with an alterntion tlmt tlte student would be permitted to take any two of the three meals each day; he might choose to eat breakfast and lunch, and is not limited to only lunch and dinner. as the present fourteen-meal plan stipulates. The student need not be consistent: he may take breakfast a11d dinner one day. and lunch and dinner the nc~t. This plan will be offered to 'freshmen too. beginning winter tern1. The cos.t of fourteen meals pet we.ek for nne term will he $210. No seven-meal plan will be offered.

'l 'l: I•: -! i ·i ' ,; :·,I i iq ' Page2 C.ON.COR.DJENSIS, Friday, June:f,\ 1973 Schaffer Actual Survey Text We, as students, have an opportunity this Saturday at 4:30 to show our appreciation to an individual who has shown tremendous interest in Union and who has, through his generosity, vastly increased the qual·ity of Academia here. Henry Schaffer is the epitome of a Trastee who cares. We strongly urge all student:; who can attend to show up at SSOI6 Saturday at 4:30 and help honor Mr. Schaffer. {see page I box) Messa's Survey 'fhe Concordiensis · Survey .of Life at Union is now completed. We would li~e to thank Frank Messa, and all those who assisted him, for their efforts in this regar.d. They tabulated, without the aid of the comp\.lter (due to the time crunch) almost 400 of these surveys: t·he first major block of their analYsis appears in this issue of Concordy. The survey will now be placed on tape. and ;tccess to it will tie available through Nucross. It is, we feet an accurate and enlightened piece of research. The response rate was almost 80 per cent, a truly phenomenal rate, and we thank all those who took the time to complete the survey for their efforts. . FQr survey Analysis see page 8. The survey randomly· distributed to the students is as foJJows: Many issues are presently being discussed on the campus. Concordiensis is interested in finding out student and faculty attitudes on various issues. You have been randomly selected to make known your opinions by compl.eting this ·short questionnaire. You are in no way expected to identify yourself. The results of this questionnaire can become 'important inputs into t·he system if a high response rate is obtained. The entire questionnaire will take no more than 10 minutes of your time. All individual responses will be kept anonymous, so please be honest. These forrl).s should be returned to your RA or Fraternity President. If you have any questions or if you lose the form, get in touch with Frank Messa, Room 212 Davidson, phone no. 346-9342. Thank you, Analysis S.ans Investigation deceive- I. to make (a person) believe what is not true; delude; mislead. The single most important word, in my opinion, which has surfaced in 1973 is the word deceive. Fraud, subterfuge, trickery, and chicanery, the euphemisms for deceit, have become much more evident since the watershed cases of the Pentagon Papers and the Watergate. Deceit iS' not a special case germane to national affairs or politics but is a universal disease, and has even reached epidemic proportions on our own campus. The administration deceives students, students deceive faculty and administration, and faculty too is guilty. I speak in general terms but certainly there are exceptions. An example which may epitomize the above is taken from track and field. A student member of the board of trustees needed a I :53 half-mile to qualify by DON KRONE for the lC AA track meet and the nationals. However, on one day he recorded ~ creditable I :54,2, which somehow emerged as a 1:53 flat in the local papers and even in Concordy. It seems that the time was changed because those in charge determined he was worthy of the national recognition, Such an act is quite similar to the New· York State legislature turning back the dock because it could not finish its backlog of w~rR before the legal deadline. On a national level, men like Ehrlichman, Haldeman, E. Howard Hunt, Gordon Liddy, etc. decided it was in our \national interest or security\ to deceive the American public or to act in a secret manner because of moral commitment. · It has become increasingly more difficult to find ouj about our involvement overseas because of .rigorous classification systems which make what should be general information into top CONCORDIENSIS founded at Union College in f877 Editor-in-Chief.. .............................................. AI Reisch Managing Editors ..................................... Rita Morandi Dave Strom News Editors ................ , ....................... Phyllis Edeh:nan Marty Sherman Features Editor ....................................... ,John Perlstein Investigations and Analysis ............................ Don Krone Associate Editor ....................................... Chuck Sabatt National Advertising ...................................... Steve Kelly Sports Editor ....................• · · · · Bart Mercer · Subscriptions ......................................... Mike -Bernstein Business Manager ................................... Chris O~Connor Photo Editors .......................... Les Kernan Offk:eStaft' Phil Alcabes Doug Carpenter Gary Lovett lllyria Puharich Dan Rothblum Jeff Weilburg Bill Erichson Robin Waring Bill West Concordiensis is published every Tuesday and Friqay.during the >chool year except dunng examination and vacation peniods·b¥ the student body of Union College, Schenectady, N.Y. NatiOnal Advertising Representative: National Educational Advertising Service, Inc., NYC. Editorial office, Old Gym Hall, 'Union College. P\ublication office; The Jewish World Publi()iltions, 771 State Street, Schenectady, New York. 12307 (346~2356). Entered i.n ~he Schenectady post office as Second Class Mail Matter. SubscNptlon rate: 20 cents a copy, 8 dollars a year delivered anyv;here in the United States. Deadline for all copy, which must be TYPED AND DOUBLE SPACED, is 7 P:m. on Monday and Thursday at the Concordiensis office, located in Stoller Hallabove Old Chapel. The office phone number is 370-6155, but· the office is in use only on Monday and Thursday nights. FOR ALL EDITORIAL MATTERS CALL THE EDiTOR-IN-CHIEF AT 346-'9396; FOR lNl'ORMATrON CALL MRS. MARRA IN THE' STUDENT ACTIVITII:S OFFICE AT 370-6118. - secret documents. That is deceit in its first phase because the truth is hidden from view. Deception takes place in everyday relations between people. People hide from the truth and · reality of their perception and emit responses and behave behind a facade. This deceit is the result of the role- playing and acting people do. Certainly one cannot expect people to understand first level reality unless the respondent supplies that information. But the actor can only be viewed in second level reality, which paves the way for deceit, since the observer is unable to determine if what he s.ees is what is really inside the person. We have been deceived in our education by being .socialized with the current values of our teachers and parents. Only openness and honesty can overcome the deception which has always run rampant and has recently come to the forefront of national' interest. Some people seem uninterested in the actions of the Watergate hearings or the result of the Pentagon Papers trial. Deceit, though, can only be attacked and defeated if people take an interest in these matters to see that such actions are not spurious examples, but are. the same empirical reality which exists .in common human relations. PROCTOR'S W}.~~ ST 13 TJ ST.. SCHENEG·T ADY CLINT E,ASTWOOD • 10 \HIGH PlAINS DRIFTER\ FREE Complete.listing.of magazine snbscriptions at discount . rates. Write: GIFT TREE. College Dept. Bx:. 5922, Grand Central S.ta. New York, N.V.l0017 Please circle or fill in the appropriate answer. I, What year &f'e you presently in? a) freshman; b) sophomore; c) junior; d) senior · 2. What is your sex? a) mErle; b) female 3. What is you,r race? a} black; b) white; c) other 4. What is yo.~u: home state? 5. Which description be.st characterizes your \lome town? a) met.ropolitan area {pop. over 100,000); b) subutb; c) rural 6. Do you belong to a fraternity? (Yes, No) 7. What is your major subject? 8. What 'is your rel'igious affiJiati0n? a) Catholic; b) Protestant; c) Jewish; d) Other; e) None· 9. Have you ever used the computer facilities at Union? (Yes, No) 10. Have you ever used the time sharing terminal at Union? (Yes, No) ' I L Who is the best professor in your major department? · 12. Who is your favorite professor at UHion? 13. On a scale ·Of l (worst) to iO (best), how would you rate Concordy as a newspaper? 14. How many hour.s pe'r week do you spend on · ·schoolwork ,(including classes)? 15. How do you accouAt for the recent .cumulative index inflation ·at Union during the past few years? · a) increasing quality of students; b) lower standards of academic;: achievement; c) faculty bowing to student pressure to change grades; d) other (please specify);. e) don't know. '16. It has bet;!n ·argued that independent studies indirectly increase tuition because of greater demands which ate plac~d ot1 faculty members. Do you believe that .this justifies placing a limit on the number of independent studies which a department may offer each semester? (Yes, No) 17. MY social life OA campus has. been hampered by the following (please rank) a) poor choice of available social activities; b) academic pressures; c) male- female ratio; d) not enough activities; e) other (please specify) 18. What are the three biggest problems at Union? (please rank) 19. The primarv function of a Letters To the Editor, It ·gives me great pleasure to announce to your readers the fotmat.ion of a Women's Outing Club here at Union. A group of interested co-eds frorri all over campus have banded together to pursue those traditionally male activities such as hunting, fishing and camping. We plan to begin our activities in the fall with a trip to Lefty's Hunting Lodge on Saranac Lake, and more trips to such outdoor places as the Catskills, lake George, and Vermont, and anyone who is interested in joining the club should C(:)ntact Barbara · Palindrome in Room 200 in Fox House at 346-0325. There will be a meeting in the Hale House Lounge on Monday, June 3, at 7:30 P.M. for all who are interested in this venture. I hope to see you there. Sincerely, Deborah Dearth, '75 * * * * To the Editor: Was there any slgnl:ficance to the fact that in your last issue. directly under the final eXam schedule, it read in bold letters the heading: CLASS OF '73 MEMORIAL? Still hoping to graduate, we are Mark Shugoll '73 Lester Kritzer ·'73 Tom Parisi '73 Tom Swartz '73 * * * * tenUTe limit at. -Union is: a} to. provide greater diversity of subject matter within the various departrneJ}ts; b) to insure .a. flow of \new blood\; that is, an influ;x: of bright, young :ptefessors into the college faculty; c) to k;eep instructional costs down; d) to provide a flexibility of facutty which would be responsive ~o changing student interests; e) other .(please specify) 20. The main function of the college center is: .a1) to provide an environment in which students and faculty may informally get together; b) to provide various entertainment · facilities to students and faculty; .c) other (please specify) 2 b. The computer facilities at Union are (excellent, good, fair, p.oor). Circle one. 2:2~ The library facilitks at Union are {excellent, good, fair~ poor). - Circle one. · · 23. The cafeteria facilities at Union are (excellent, good, fair, poor). Circle one. . 24. The athletic fac.ilities at Union are (excellent, good; fair., poot). Circle one. Z5. The housing .maintenance at the Union dormitories is {excellent, good, fair, poor). Circle one. 26. lhe system of determining housing assignments)s (excellent, good, fair, poor). Circle one. 27. For the most pa:rt, President Martin has done a (excellent, good, fair, poor) job in running the college. Circle one. 28. How might the grading system at Union be improved? .a) adding. ~s and -s to th,e grading system; h) switching to a straight pass-fai'l system; c) switching to a pass-fail- honors system; -d) eliminate grades ,completely; 3) other (please specify); f) no changes in present g1~ading'_ system 29. If you had tl:!e choice to make again, would you select Union? (Yes, No) Please answer the follo.wing questions according to this format: (0) inappmpriate (don't know enough about subject) (1) disagree strongly (2) disagree so!llewhat (3) neutral · (4) agree somewl1at (5) agree strongly 30. There should he a limit on the number of independent studies that one student may take in one year. 31. Because students who are permitted to take more than nine courses per year ofte.n graduate early, resulting in a tuition loss for the college, there should be a limit on the number of courses that one student may take in one year. 32. There should be a limit on the numbe.r of pass-fail courses that one student may take in one year. 33. ln general, the administration is responsive to student need·s and demands. 34. The Student Senate is a useful institution. 35, The present calendar .for the school year ought to be changed. 36. Comprehensive education ought to be aholis~ed. 37. The new Gove~ance System at Union has given students a bigger voice in college affairs. 3R. I am satisfied with mY social life at Union. 39. For the most part, Union students are anti-intellectuals. ·40. ·For the most part, Union students are fhroats. 41. With a few exceptions, the Union College faculty are good classroom instructors. 42. Union College provides an adequate cultural environment for the academic community. Dave's; Mens Sbop I 453 State St. (downtown Schenectady) ...

Paf{e 2 CONCORDIENSIS, Friday, June I, 1973 Schaffer Actual Survey Text We. a~ ~tudcnb. ha\c an opportunity this Saturday at 4:30 to sho\\ our appreciation to an indi\\idual who has shown trcmendoth interest in l :nion and \\ hn has. through his generosity. 'a st I~ i ncre aseJ the qua I i 1 \ ol Ac..:ademia here. llt'IH\ Schaller i-, the epitome 111 :t l rusteL' who earcs. We 'trongl\ urge all student.:-. \\ lltl L·:rn attl'!Hi to >.ho\\ up at SSO 16 Saturda~ at -!:.10 and hL·Ip hontll \h. Schaffer. hce page I htl\) Messa's Survey I he Concordiensis Suney td I ilc at l'nion i~ now l'tllllplett:d. We \\ould lih· 111 tll:tnk I· ranh \1L·,~a. and all tho-,c \\ ho as;-.istcd him. IPr their dltll'ts in thi, regard. They LrhubteJ. without the aid PI tilL· cornputu iduc to the time crunch) almmt -tOO of thesL' sun e: :-.: t hl' tint major hlock of their analy:-.ts appears in this is'>llt' ot ('oncordy. The suney \\ill no\\ he placed on tape. <tlld :recess to it v:i-11 he ;nailahlc through '\ucross. It is. we Icc!. a.11 accurate and enlightened piece of research. The re ... ponse rate \\a' almost XO per cent. a truly phenomenal rate. and \\e thank all tho~e >vho took the time to complete the sunn lor their crtorts. For survey Analysis see page 8. The survey randomly distributed to the students is as follows: Many iswes are presently heing discus~ed on the campus. ('oncgrdiensis Is interested in finding out student and faculty a ttit udt.:s on Yarinus issues. You han: heen randomly selected to make known your opinions hy c (l m p I e t i n g t h i s s h o r t t.:JUestiommire. Y oll are in no way expected to identify yourself. I he results of this lJ uestionnaire can hccorne -important inputs into the system it a high res pons~: rate is ohtained. The entire lfUCstionnaire will take no more than 10 minutes of your time. All individual responses will he kept anonymous, so please he honest. These forms should be returned to your R A or fraternity President. If you have any lfUestions or if you lose the form. get rn touch with Frank Messa. Room 212 Davidson. phone no. 346-9342. Thank vou. Analysis Sans Investigation deceh~e - I. to make (a person) helinc \\hat i~ not true: delude: mislead. rhe single most important word. in my opinion, which ha~ 'urfaccd 111 1973 i~ the word decei\e. Fraud. subterfuge. trickery. and chicanery. the euphemisms for deceit. ha\e hccomc much more evident since the watershed cases of the Pentagon Papers and the Watergate. Deceit is not a specia I case germane to national affairs or politics but is a universal disease. and has even reached epidemic proportions on our own campus. The ad ministration deceiws students. student> deceive faculty and administration. and faculty too is guilty. l speak in general terms hut certainly there are except ions. An example which may cpitomite the ahmc is taken from track and field. A student mcmher of the hoard of trustees needed a 1:53 half-mile to qualify h~ DOl' KRO~E for the ICA/\ track meet and the nationab. However. on one day he recorded a creditable I :54.2. which somehow emerged as a I :53 nat in the local papers and even in Concordy. It seems that the time was changed hecause those rn charge determined he was worth\' or the national rccogni.tion. Such an act is quite similar to the New York State l.cgislaturc turning hack the clock hcc.:ause it could not finish its backlog of work before the legal deadline. On a natit)na I level, men like f:hrlichman. Haldeman. E. Howard Hunt. Gordon Liddy. etc. decided it was in our \na tiona I interest or security\ to deceive the American public or to act in a secret m-anner because of moral com mit ment. It has become increasingly more difficult to find ol.ij ahout our in\ohcment o\erseas hccause ol ritwrou~ classification systems which make what should he general information into top CONCORDIENSIS founded at t:nion {'ollege in 1877 Ed . . r·h· 1· - AI R ·~ h _ Jtor-Jn-\,_ le_................................................ CluC- Managing Editors ..................................... Rita Morandi Dave Strom 1\;ews Editors ........................................ Phyllis Edelman Marty Sherman Features Editor ........................................ John Perlstein Investigations and Analysis .......................... Don Krone Associate Editor ....................................... Chuck Sa batt National Advertising .................................... Steve Kelly Sports Editor ................. - . - .. · · ·Bart Mercer Subscriptions ......................................... Mike Bernstein Business Managcr. ................................. Chris O'Connor Photo Editors .......................... Les Kernan Office Staff Phil Alcahe' I>nug Carpcnt<:r (i;!l\ lll\L'll til: na l'uh;mch llan Rothhlnm Jeff Weilburg Bill Erichson Roh1n Waring Bill Wc,r ('oncordiensis '' puhli,hed t:\ery I ue,daj and Friday during the ,chool \'ear cxt.:cpt dunnf! examination and \acation period5 by the ~tudcnt. hnd\ of Union College. Schenectady, N.Y. National Ad1 ertl~mg ·Represent am c: :-.<ational f:ducational Advertising: Sen ice, Int.: .. :\'iT. [:ditunaloflice. Old G;rn Hall, Union College. l''uhliratwn office. lhe .Je\\i;h World Publications. 771 State Strecl. Schenectadl. \c\\ York. 12307 (3411-2356). Entered in the Schcncctad} po't t;ffll'c a' Second Cia\ \Lui \1atter. Suhscription rate 20 cenb a cop\. X dollars a :- c.1r dclllt'r<:d anyvo. here 111 the l nllr.:d Statr.:' fleadlmt· lor ;dl cop\. 1d11l'h must hL· II PI D A:\D l>OliBI.L \P,\CIIl. \ \ r m tHI \11lndii) and I hunday at the Concordien!>i'> ofl1ce. loeakd 111 Stoller flail a holt' Old ( 'hapcl. I hc office ph<Hle numher \370-1>1 55. hut the otflt:C ''Ill u'c onl1 on \lond.tl .nul I hur,da\ r11ghb I oR ,.\I I. IDt .lOR tAl \J.\f II R\ ( ·\!! THI llltlOI<-l\-Clllll AI 346-'1.1%; IOH 1'-1 OR\!\ lltl\ ( \!! \1R\ \1·\RH \ I\ I III. Sl I Dl \l \C fl\lli~StlliiC I \I nrr.lf~ sec ret docwments. That is deceit in its first phase because the truth is hidden from view. Deception takes place in c1eryday relutions between people. People hide from the truth and reality of their perception and emit responses and behave hchind a facade. This deceit is the result of the role- playing and acting people do. Certainly one cannot expect people to understand first level reality unless the respondent supplies that information. But the actor can only be viewed in second level reality. which paves the way for deceit. since the ohservcr is unahlc to determine if what he sees is what i~ really inside the person. We ha\'e heen deceiYed in our education hy heing sociali7cd with the current Yalues of our teachers and parenb. Only opennes~ and honesty can overcome the deception which has alv;ays run rampant and has recently come to the forefront of national interest. Some people seem uninterested in the actions of the Watergate hearings or the result of the Pentagon Papers trial. Deceit. though. can only be attacked and defeated if people take an interest in these matters to see that such actions are not spurious exarnples. but are the same empi rica! reality which exists in common human relations. . PROCTOR'S Wi-lli: S1ATJ Sl., SCHENEC-TADY CLINT EASTWOOD • 10 \HIG PLAINS DRIFTER\ FREE Complete listing of magazine s11bscriptions at discount rates. VI/rite: 1 ~ GWT 1'REE, College Dept. ~ ~. Hx .. 'i922. Grand Central Sta. ?~ ~ NewYork,N.Y.IGa17 , ~ , ~~---- ..... Please circle or fill im the appropriate answer. I. What year are you presently in? a) freshman: b) sophomore: c) junior; d) senior 2. What is your sex? a) male: h) female 3. What is your race? a) black: h) white: c) other 4. What i~ your home state' 1 5. Which description best charactcrites your home town? a) metropolitan area (pop. over IOOJJOO): h) suburh; c) rural l'l. Do you belong to a fraternity? (Yes. :\o) 7. What is your major subject'! ~. What is your religious affiliation'' a) Catholic: h) Prot~stant; c) Jewish; d) Other: e) :--;one 9. Hme you ever used the computer facilities at Union? (yes, 1\; 0) 10. Have you ever used the time sharing terminal at Union? (Yes, No) II. Who is the hest professor in your major department'! 12. Who is your favorite professor at Union? 13. On a scale of l (worst) to I 0 (best). how would you rate Concordy as a newspaper? 14. Hov. many hours per week do you spend on schoolwork (including classes)'? 15. How do you account for the recent cumulative index inOation at Union during the past few years'? a) increasing quality of students: b) lower standards of academic achievement: c) faculty howing to student pressure to change l!rades: d) other (please specify); e) don't know. 16. It has been argued that independent studies indirectly increase tuition because of greater demands which are plact;d on faculty members. Do you believe that this justifies placing a limit on the number of independent studic~ which a department may offer each semester? (Yes. ~o) 17. My social life on campus has been hampered by the following (please rank) a) poor choice of availahlc social actiVIties; b) academic pressures: c) male- female ratio: d) not enough activities: c) other (please specify) I X. What are the three biggest problems at Union? (please rank) J(). The primarv function of a Letters To the Editor, It gives me great pleasure to announce to your readers the formation of a Women's Outing Club here at Union. A group of interested co-eds from all over campus have banded together to pursue those traditionally ma·lc activities such as hunting. fishing and camping. We plan to begin our activities in the fall with a trip to Lefty's Hunting Lodge on Saranac Lake. and more trips to such outdoor places as the Catskills. Lake George, and Vermont. and anyone who is interested in joining the club should contact Barbara Palindrome in Room 200 in Fox House at 346-0325. There wili he a meeting in the Hale House Lounge on Monday. June 3. at 7:30 P.M. for all who arc interested in this venture. l hope to sec you there. Sincerely, Deborah Dearth, '7'5 * * * * To the Editor: Was there any significance to the fact that in your la~t issue. direct!~ under the final exam ... chedulc. it read in hold letters the heading: U.ASS 0!· '73 \.1Pv10R I \I,, Still lwrm!! to graduatl'. we arc Mark Shu~:oll '7.'\ Lfc;ter l\ritzer '7.'\ Tom Parisi ·n Tom Swart7 '7:1 * * * * . . tenure limit at Union is: a) to provide greater diversity of subject matter within the various departments: h) to instue a flow of \new blood\; that is, an influx of hright, young ~fcssors into the college faculty; c) to keep instructional costs down; d) to provide a flexibility of faculty which would be responsive to changing student interests: c) other (please specify) 20. The main ftmction of the college center is: a) to pro\'ide an environment in which s,tudent;, and faculty may informally get together: b) to provide Yarious entertainment facilities to students and faculty: c) other (please specify) 2k The computer facilities at Union are (excellent. good. fair. poor). Circle one. 22. The library facil.itics at Union are (excellent. good. fair. poor). Circle one. · 23. The cafeteria facilities at Union are (excellent. good. fair. poor). Circle one. 24. The athletic facilities at Union arc (exccHcnt. good. fair. poor). Circle one. 25. The housing maintenance at the Union dormitories is (excellent, good. fair. poor). Circle one. 21'l. The system of determining housing assignments is (excellent. good. fair. poor). Circle one. 27. For the mo~t part. President Martin has done a (excellent. good. fair. poor) joh in running the college. Circle one. 2X. How might the grading system at Union be improved? a) adding +s and -s to the grading system: h) switching to a straight pass-fail system: c) switching to a pass-fail- honors system: d) eliminate grades completely: 3) other (please specify); f) no changes in present grading system 29. If you had the choice to make again. would you select Union? (Yes. :-.io) Please answer the following questions according to this format: (0) inaptJropriate (don't know enough about subject) (I) disagree strongly (2) disagree somewhat (3) neutral (4) agree somewhat (5) agree strongly 30. There should be a limit on the number of independent studies that one student may take in one year. 31. Because students who arc permitted to take more than nine courses per year often graduate early. resulting in a tuition loss for the college. there should be a limit on the number of courses that one student may take in one year. 32. There should be a limit on the number of pass-fail courses that one student may take in one year. .B. In general, the administration is responsive to student needs and demands. 34. The S.tudent Senate is a useful institution. 35. The present calendar for the school year ought to be changed. 36. Comprehensive cd ucation ought to be abolished. '!.7. The new Governance System at Union has given students a bigger voice in college affairs. 3X. I am satisfied with my social life at Union. .19. For the most part. Union students are anti-intellectuals. 40. For the most part. lJ nion st~1dent.s are throats. 41. With a few exceptions. the llnior:J College faculty arc gnod classroom instructors. 42. l'nion College provides an adcqllate cultural en\'ironmcnt lor the <Icadcmic comrmtnitv --- Dave's. Mens Shop I 453 State St. '--..:..( d_o .... w_n_to_w_n_S_c_he_n_e_ct_a_d.:..y);_.,; l ~ '

s; a) to. of va·iious fl'ow ninflux into k;eep , d) to facutw s.ive ~o sts; e) of the an .get to other at fair, Union poor). es at , faif, at is IIent, ident stem ding. b) nate In ake on? ne a e ~cONCORDlENSJS, Friday, June J, 1973 Page3 phato by Cindy Wolfson photo by Steve Tytko ,. photo by Dave Strom photo by Sandy Wilder

is: a) to of various a flow influx into to keep d) to · faculty to csts: e) of the an ally get various cs t 0 ) other ities at fair, lJ nion poor). at fair, Union poor). nee at 1 s poor). ellent. C. sident nning b) ate other 111 this now the one are oss ea ~· on nd he m a n e r r ; CONCORDIENSIS, Friday, June 1, 1973 Page] photo by Cindy Wo(f:Son photo hy Steve Tytko photo hy Dm·e Strum photo hy Sandy Wild£•r

. '\· ,. . I . ·' . ,, ft' . I . .l 'l' .:;- .· ;. . f I' ~ i / Page4 ' CONC.ORDJENSJS. Friday, Jun~ I, 1973. photo by Malcolm Snowden Photo hy P. Todd Alexander · . Oue to the small number of entries received, the Concordy staff has taken the liberty (journalistic license?) to change our contest format. Instead of awarding designations of relative merit (First prize, etc.), we ha.ve opted to present in pictorial essay form some of the better entries submitted, complemented by a few staff goodies. · Concordy sincerely thanks those photographers who did take the time and effort to submit their work, and bopes through this eleventh-hour revision to provide each of them with an opportunity for exposure of his or her work. Submitted pictures may be reclaimed next week in the Student Activities Office .

Page4 CONCORDIENS/S, F.rirlay, June I, 1973 photo hy Malcolm Snowden photo hr /'. Fudd A ll'xandcr Due to the small number of entries received, the Concordy staff has taken the Iibert~· (journalistic license?) to change our contest format. instead of awarding designations of relatiw merit (First prize, etc.), we have opted to present in pictorial essaJ form some of the better entries submitted, complemented b~ a few staff ~oodies. ConcordJ sincereiJ thanks those photographers who did take the time and effort to submit their work, and hopes through this eleventh-hour revision to provide each of them with an opportunit} for exposure of his or her work. Submitted pictures may be rerlaimed next week in the Student Activities Office.

·coNCOR[)IENS/S, Friday. June I, 197~. - , _, '-- \ ' PagtY5 photo by [)ave Hardman photo hy Ste\•e 1)·tko photo h_r Dm·e Hardman

CONCORD! EN SIS, Friday, June 1, 1973 Page5 • photo hy Dal'e Hardman plzo!o hr Jeff U\cilheJg / photo hy Slew J)·r/..o photo hr nm·<· Hardman

': ~ j ' . ,r • . i l ! . -.~ photo b)' Dave Strom photo b}· Jejf Wet/berg photo by Bill Erickson • CONCOR,DI£NSJS~ Friday~ June I, 1973 ·- ~\\ . photo by Steve 1)•tko -Photo by Cindy Wo(f'soh I J a tl e tl 1\ p i\ p aJ tl p C<

photo by Dave Strom photo hy Jeff Wei/herx photo hy Bill Erichson • photo hy Sieve T_rtko photo hy Cindy Wo(f.\on

, I CONCORD!ENS!S, Friday, Jun(! J,l97f\ Pagel Fraternity Softball ,,, ... . d. . d' t ,, n.- epen .. ens Tht: fraternity softb<dl season swings into its final week as Art Cigar~s tw0 division, 18 te~:tm league tries to crowtrr a champion. Deadlocked in a .first place tie at 6-2 in the nine team Eastern loop were the Loqgemen from Cbi Psi and an unheralded young squad from Phi Delta Theta. A D Phi and Sigmn Ph,igarnered third and fourth place.>>· In the exdtittg playoff game for the EasterH Pennant, Phi Delt surprised the Lodgemen 11~0 behind a superb three hit shutoUt performance by southpaw hurler _Bob Nesbitt. The phi Delfs avenged an earlier 11-lO extra- by PHIL UNZ inning loss to Chi Psi with souhd defense .- and a ·healthy hitting attack. The play of the _gaine oc<;urred when shortshop George Huttig fired to first basemen G1;1.y Roemer for a force and Roemer riffled a buliet to · third sacker Clete Wilson for the tag on charging Mike Doyle to complete a ntlly-killing 6-3-5 double~play. ln the highly regarded West~rn Division four teams are in the thick of a pennant scramble. The rain has postponed several games but pitcher Randy Ruschak and Sig Chi have remained unbeaten at·· 6-.:0, their most recent win a come frotn bepind 7th inning 8~ 7 victory over the now twice beaten pre-season Cavorites, the defending champions from Fiji. down. Sigs 3-0 Chuck Abba and Luke Dill<>n's lndependant team, at 7~1 1 is -hoping that fmmer powerhouse by BART MERCER and JlM BACHARACH Psi Upsilon, 5-2, which has a A team composed of twelve crucial upcoming game with Sig freshman and one sophotnbfe, six Chi, can knock off the of whom were on last fall's JV or Cl.a~~ak~rs to force the Western Varsity soccer teams, rose to the Dtvts!on mto .a playoff.. . .challenge of the brethers of Ph• De~t wt!l ~eet the wm?er · Sigma Chi and defeated them 3~0 of the ~emor ctrcuit at !he earhest on George ·naley Field last convemence for .both squads, Tuescfay night. presumably so~e time next week. John Bustetud struck the first The ~est~rn wmne.r should. be a blow against the Sigs in the first mornmg h?-e f~vonte to wm the period when he cut across tqe World Senes nngs. goal mouth and~ ripped in a shot In the second half, Sigma Chi's offense woke up quite a bit, but still could not score as Mark Walsh smothered some honers by the Sills. · In tbe third period, Jim Collin, who scored one of Delta Chi's goals in last week's game, scored again, bringing the final score to 3~0. ·:BLITHER· [ Track I while the goalie, Tom \Mac\ Macaulay was screened J,y two ·Of . .. his own defenders. fhe first period continued for the most part in Sigma Chi's end of the field as the ••independents\ T4e f0urth period was scoreless as both Macaulay and Walsh both came up with some spectacular saves on blistering shots by both teams. Although the teams were a bit unevenly matched, a good time was had by all. lt is hoped by many that these games will be the start of inter-fraternity competition in soccer. Phi Delta Theta is leaking for two persons to wait meals or wash dishes (we have an auto·matic dishwasher) for next year, For pay the workers will be given · .a full meal plan plus free sdciaL If interested, contact Mark Mindel or Guy Roemer at 346- 9730. We are also opening sumrp_er housing for students w.ho plan to Jive here over the summer at $.10 per Week, with free use of the kitch~n offered. Anyone interested _pl¢!!:4e contact us soon at the saniernimber, ··*· ·'* \' '* The Coffeehouse will present the Finals Freebie on Friday, June I, at 8:30 in the OJd Chapel, This will be the last Coffeehouse of the year, and will feature' the return of Cliet Arthur and His Flaming Aces, the Glee Club version of Sha-Na-Na. Of course, w.e will have our usual su.pply of ' Dunkin' Donuts and coffee. The show will be a long one, so please try to get there early so we can start .at 8:30 sharp. * - * * * ]he judging in the Photo Society PYE photography contest has been completed. The winners are: First prize: Chuck Booth Second prize: Chuck Booth Third prizes: Richard Maid and John Dowling Fourth priles: Jessica Sobiech, Richard Maid and Chuck Booth Fifth p:rizes: Roy Rubinfeld and Lew Kjnter · These. prizes were selected from .the seventy entries recei'ved. The entries will remain on exhibit in the Library Music Room until Monday. Photographs may be picked up in 214 Fox after Monday. Prize money may be picked up in Mrs. Marra;s office after June 14. Congratulations to the winners. S.tatt getting PSYCHED for next year's contest. * * * * The movie, ··once Upon a War\ is to be shoWn in SS 016, on Tuesday evening, May 5, at 7:00 P.M. The movie is on tbe . children of Vietnam, and was f~)lhed by the American Friends Service Committee. Admission is free. - * * * * The Cabaret on Saturday, June 2, unde~: the leadership of Hoyt T, Shoemaker, will attempt a free- form ·p.r.esentation featuring a jazz group and a poet from Union, . Joel Passinault. The campus community is encourageq to bring any refreshments they wish, and there- will- be no charge. The evening's entertainment is sponsored by the Union College Symptomatology Club and' the College's Department; of Extra- . curricular Affairs. The show will be held in Arts 202, and please note that the time is 8:00 P.M., not 8:30 as was incorrectly noted in \Union's Week.\ * * * * Present plans call for the classes of 1974 and 1975 to get new lD cards .next fall, along with the incoming freshmen. After this year, it will be .a regular practice 11) have the incoming junior and freshman classes receive new cards in the · fall at no cost. The chiss of 1976 should retain the present ID cards since replacement will involve a char{!e of $5.00. THE- BEST KELLY'S 501..()3 Hattie St. Schenectady, N.Y.12308 Phone 346·5059 The F:raternity-In:tramural Track Meet will :be run T1,1esda:y · and Wednesday by Coach Ken Michaelson, with Chi Pshtnd· D Phi expected to wage a lively.. battle. Longest event is the featured 440, with D Phi's Chip Murphy and Phi Sigma Delta's .George Schwab dusting off the old spikes for a renewal of their annual feud. Speedy John Quirk heads the sprints and anchors the Lodge's tough relay units, while D Phi's Richie Burrell looms the Weightman favorite. kept on the pressure but were held back by a strong Sig defense. The . next goal came in the second ·period i!S Jim Collin smashed in a point blank shot as. Craig Jeffries occupied most of the Sig defensive line. Sigma Chi had a few chances to score on ~reak aways by Bruce Freeman, Ed Rowley, and John Taylor but were stifled by Jim Bacharach's tough defensive efforts. Delta Ch'i ' A 'Vengf!s ·.Loss by FREJi. UMANE . '- \ .,·. After having thrown the· Dave KawecKi, D _Chi's gauntlet back in Sigma Chi's face, ·satisfied coach, remarked after the Delta Chi~s soccer team the· ganie, .. Tbe first game was a · trounced Sigma Chi 5-3 in an fluke. In thi& game, my boys came historic rematch. The game was through, like I knew they would.\ played Wednesday, under the Anyone interested in playing lights, on Daley Field. D Chi the second-best team should get played an over-powering game, in tough with John Taylor in despite having to overcome the Sigma Chi (346-9582). handicap of using two townies, Pat and Mike. The Delta Chi team was sparked by a hat trick . and two assists f.t:om F. Roman Rakoczy. Another Delta Chi goal was scored by Larry Brown, and ·Zabo the Boot added two assists.- Steve Arnold played a sterling goal and made numerous brilliant saves. The defense was sparked by :Coach Dave Kawecki, Ed Wagner, Bill Rudich, i!Ild Ira Greene. * * * * LOST: Two Jabberwock feet. If found, please call Bill Brender at 346-9688. Thank you muchly. Bulletin Sigma Chi Beat Psi U in the final game of the season I -0 in 11 innings to clinch the Western Division Crown of the IFC Softball League. Tom Macaulay hit an opposite field single with tnen on first and second to wrap up the game. Tremendous defense on both sides marked the unusually low softball score. The Sigs will meet Phi Delta Theta for t-he overall Championship - sometime nex.t week. An interest in the game has been shown by the fact that no less than nine fraternities have shown their readiness to play Sigma Chi as a result of the challenge in last week's paper. It is doubtful that all of these games wilf be played, but it does show the wide interest in soccer that is growing across campus. Quality food Dinner 4-8 p.m. Reasonable Prices RedFox Inn Charcoal Burgers 8-Midnight Cold Sandwiches Jay Stteet ASK ABOUT THE \llfor 10 CLUB\ ~~<Ylsabella 's,f '~. ';&~ $.. \g/ PHARMACY, INC. }'Accuracy 527 Union St: Sclteneetad_y N..Y~ Pll. 370-2300 WELCOME UN/0/11 STUDENTS Levrs Dave~s- Mens Shop. 4~3 State St. (downtown Schenectady) 1 block east ~\.,:' Richmond(Foster Ave.) ·~ .li\ ffiVTj_· __ ..-'--~--'-----.--~-------------------t .···._,,y· ;;·:::'~··;,,,,/ ~ w .(J,J,JJ. ONCE, A DRAGON OFFERED A BALD SHEEPE TO A KNIGHT FOR THE PRICE OF A 6-PACK OF SCHAEFER 6EERE ... AND WHEN THE KNIGHi LOOkETH ASKANCE AT SUCH A CREATURE, THE DRAGON SAYETH 'TIS A MAGIC SHEEPE, SIRE 1 FOR IT GROWETH GOLDEr>./ FLEECt, AND WilL MAI<E THEE R:ICH ... / WH HICE .f N A BURST OF GREEDE THE KNIGHT CRIETH 'DONE!; THr.NKING HE HAD AT lASi BESTED HIS FOI:, .. BEARING OUT THE ANCIE~TGREEKADAGE 1 lroPTOTf SOUVLAKlTA' OR}HE WHO BUYS A BALD, MAGIC SHEEPE IS CSRJAIN TO BE FlEECED! Schaefer Breweries: New York, N.Y. Baltimore. Md., lehigh Valley, Pa·.

' J ··. ' I, CONCORD/EN SIS, Friday, June/, !97J Fraternity SoftbaU Pa!?e 7 \Independents\ down Sigs 3-0 The fraternity softball season swings into its final week as Art Cigar's two division, I X team league tries to crown a champ,ion. Deadlocked in a first place tie at 6-2 in the nine team Eastern loop were the Lodgemen from Chi Psi and an unheralded young squad from Phi Delta Theta. A D Phi and Sigma Phi garnered third and fourth place. In the exciting playoff game for the Eastern Pennant. Phi Delt surprised the Lodgemen I 1-0 behind a superb three hit shutout performance by southpaw hurler Bob Nesbitt. The Phi Delts avenged an earlier 11-10 extra- Phi Delta Theta is looking for two persons to wait meals or wash dishes (we have an automatic dishwasher) for next year. For pay the workers will be given a full meal plan plus free social. If interested, contact Mark Mindel or Guy Roemer at 346- 9730. We are also opening summer housing for students who plan to live here over the summer at $10 per week, with free use of the kitchen offered. Anyone interested please contact us soon at the same number. . * * * * The Coffeehouse will present the Finals Freebie on Friday. June I, at 8:30 in the Old Chapel. This will be the last Coffeehouse of the year. and will feature the return of Chet Arthur and His Flaming Aces, the Glee Club version of Sha-Na-Na. Of course, we will have our usual supply of Dunkin' Donuts and coffee. The show will be a long one. so please t.·y to get there early so we can start at !UO sharp. * * * * The judging in the Photo Society PYE photography contest has been completed. The winners are: First prize: Chuck Booth Second prize: Chuck Booth Third prizes: Richard Maid and John Dowling Fourth prizes: Jessica Sobiech, Richard Maid and Chuck Booth Fifth prizes: Roy Rubinfeld and Lew Kinter These prizes were selected from the seventy entries received. The entries will remain on exhibit in the Library Music Room until Monday. Photographs may be picked up in 214 Fox after Monday. Prize money may be picked up in Mrs. Marra's office after June 14. Congratulations to the winners. Start getting PSYCHED for next year's contest. by PHiL LINZ victory t>Ver the now twice beaten pre-season favorites, the defendiNg champions from Fiji. inning loss to Chi Psi with ~ound defense aAd a healthy hittiNg attack. The play of the game occurred when shortshop George Huttig fired to first basemen Guy Roemer for a force and Roemer riffled a bullet to third sacker Clete Wilson for the tag on charging Mike Doyle to complete a rally-killing 6-3-5 do!lble-play. Chuck Abba and Luke Dillon's lndependanrt 1eam, at 7-1, is hoping that former powerhouse Psi l!psilori, 5-2. which has a crucial upcc>ming game with Sig Chi, can knock off the ('Jambakers to force the Western Division into it playoff. by BART MERCER and JIM BACHARACH In the highly regarded Western Division four teams are in the thick of a pennant scramble. The railil has postponed several games but pitcher Randy Ruschak and Sig Chi have remained ur:tbeaten at 6-0. their most recent win a come from be~ind 7th inming R-7 * * * * The movie, \Once Upon a War\ is to be shown in SS 016, on Tuesday evening, May 5, at 7:00 P.M. The movie is on the children of Vietnam, and was filmed by the American Friends Service Committee. Admission ts free. * * * * The Cabaret on Saturday, June 2, under the leadership of Hoyt T. Shoemaker, will attempt a free- form presentation featuring a jan group and a poet from Union, Joel Passinault. The campus community is encouraged to bring any refreshments they wish, and there will be no charge. The evening's entertainment is sponsored by the Union College Symptomatology Club and the College's Department of Extra- curricular Affairs. The show will be held in Arts 202, and please note that the time is 8:00 P.M., not 8:30 as was incorrectly noted in \Union's Week.\ * * * * Present plans call for the Phi Delt will meet the winner of the senior circuit at the earliest convenience Cor both squads, presumably some time next week. The We~terr; winner should he a morning lim~ favorite to win the World Series rings. r Track I The Fra.ternity-Intramural Track Meet will be run Tuesday and Wednesday by Coach Ken Michaelson, with Chi Psi and D Phi expected to wage a lively. battle. Longest event is the featured 4-40, with D Phi's Chip Murphy and Phi Sigma Delta's George Schwab dusting off the· old spikes for a renewal of their annual feud. Speedy John Quirk heads the sprints and anchors the Lodge's tough relay units, while D Phi's Richie Burrell looms the weight man fa \Vorite. Delta Ch.i A team composed of twelve freshman and one sophomore. six of whom were on last fall's JV or Varsitv soccer teams, rose to the challe~gc of the brothers of Sigma Chi and defeated them 3-0 on George Daley Field last Tuesday night. .John Bustcrud struck the first blow against the Sigs in the first perind when he cut across the goal mouth and ripped in a shot while the goalie. Tom \Mac\ Macaulay was screened by two of his own defenders. i'he first period continued for the most part in Sigma Chi's end of the field as the \independents\ kept on the pressure but were held back by a strong Sig defense. The next goal came in the second . period as Jim Collin smashed in a point blank shot as Craig Jeffries occupied most of the Sig defensive line. Sigma Chi had a few chances to score on break aways by Bruce Freeman, Ed Rowley, and John Tavlor but were stifled by Jim Ha~harach's tough defensive efforts. AVenges Loss by FRE~ UMANE .. After having thrown the· Dave Kawecki, D Chi's In the second half. Sigma Chi\ offen~e woke up quite a hit, hut still could not score a~ Mark Walsh smothered some honer!> hy the Sig,. · In the third period, Jim Collin, who scored one of Delta Chi's goals in last week's game. scored again. bringing the final score to J-0. Th,e fourth period was scoreless as both Macaulay and Walsh both came up with some spectacular saves on blistering shots by both teams. Although the teams were a bit unevenly matched. a good time was had by all. It is hoped by many that these games will be the start of inter-fraternity competition in soccer. An interest in the game has been shown by the fact that no less than nine fraternities have shown their readines~ to play Sigma Chi as a result of the challenge in last week's paper. It is doubtful that all of these games will he played, but it does show the wide interest in soccer that i~ growmg across campus. Quality food Dinner 4-8 p.m. Reasonable Prices RedFox Inn Charcoal Burgers X- Midnight Cold Sandwiches Jay Street ASK ABOUT THE \11./or 10 CLUB\ classes of 1974 and 1975 to get new ID cards next fall, along with the incoming freshmen. After this year, it will be a regular practice to have the incoming junior and freshman classes receive new cards in the fall at no cost. The class of 1976 should retain the present ID cards since replacement will involve a charl!e of $5.00. gauntlet back in Sigma Chi's face, satisfied coach, remarked after the Delta C\hi's soccer team the game, \The first game was a trounced Sigma Chi 5-3 in an fluke. In this game, my boys came historic rematch. The game was through, like I knew they would.\ played Wednesday, under the Anyone interested in playing lights, on Daley Field. D Chi the second-best team should get played an over-powering game, in tough with John Taylor tn despite having to overcome the Sigma C\hi (346-9582). ·~~~ Purity/sahel/aS.§ 13\. ?&~ ~ s--- .. ~~~~~~.~ THE BEST KELLY'S 501-03 Hattie St. Schenectady, N.Y. 123 08 Phone 346-5059 I block east of Richmond (Foster Ave.) handicap of tiSillg two townies, Pat and Mike. The Delta Chi team was spar.ked by a hat trick and two assists from F. Roman Rakoczy. Another Delta Chi goal was scored by Larry Brown, and Zabo the Boot added two assist~. Steve Arnold played a sterling goal and made numerous brilliant • saves. The defense was sparked by Coach Dave Kawecki, Ed Wagner, Bill Rudich, and Ira Greene. * *' '* * LOST: Two Jabberwock feet. If found, please call Bill Brender at 346-9688. Thank you muchly. Bulletin Sigma Chi Beat Psi U in the final game of the season I -0 in I I innings to clinch the Western Division Crown of the IFC Softball League. Tom Macaulay hit an opposite field single with men on first and second to wrap up the game. Tremendous defense on both sides marked the unusually low softbaH score. The Sigs will meet Phi Delta Theta for the overall Championship sometime next week. ~ \91 PHARMACY, INC. § ;t Accuracy ~ 527 Union St. § Schenectady N.Y. ~ Ph. 370-2300 ~ WELCOME UNION STUDENTS ·Levrs·· • Dave's. Mens Sbop 453 State St. (downtown Schenectady) ONCE, A DRAGON OFFERED A BALD SHEEPE TO A KNIGHT FOR THE PRICE OFA 6-PACK OF SCHAEFER BEERE ... AND WHEN THE KNIGHT LOOKETH ASKANCE AT SUCH A CREATURE, THE DRAGON SAYETH 'TIS A MAGIC SHEEPE, SIRE, FOR ITGROWETH GDLOEt-J FLEECE, AND WILL MAKE THEE RICH •. ' WHENCE IN A BURST OF GRE'EDE THE KNIGHT CRIETH 'DONE!; THIN KI~G HE HAD AT lAST BESTED HIS FOE. .. BEARING OUTTHE ANCIENT GREEK ADAGE 'lfOPTDITSOUVLAKITA' OR,'HE WHO BUYSA BALD, MAGIC SHEEPE IS CERTAir.J TO BE FLEECED!

:r~·\: ' ·~_..., ,,..,, Page8 CONCORD!ENSJS, Friday 1 June 1, 1973 ~·.· .... COncordy . ResUltS by FRANK MESSA stude!'lts. E~;onomiCs: . l(ershner Several of the qu~stiopsde~'Ii.ng number of undecided . students In the balloting for favorite A second o:bservation History: Berk ' with academic matters and·~ (predominately fr~Jhmen}. . professor at Union, 51 Instructors con 1 serning ·the.fls.tiil& -deals :with· Political Science: ·Sharlct and perceptions.- were· meiii-ioned in··· A·- questi0n.r:d(~l 1 )~fig. with the· . from every major' field rece.ived thefbase of sl:lpport::Of the various Nil!hOis (tie) WednesdaY's lSStle ,of Concordy function of a. tenure limit was more than one vote. Of these, professors. While mearly all of the SodolQgy: Kusterer and the fimll .result~ ha.ve now split in.to thtee major categories .. Professor Byron Nichols of. the professors receiv~d. most of their Mathematics;._ Stone· . . - been totallecl. The .g~ading system lhe answers receiving the· most Political Science Depa-rtment was votes . from · withJn their own Cernp,uter Sctence: G. WIIhams at Union received' the,.., most support were \to insure· a· .flow of selected as- most popular, departments,. there was Biology: Rotlr . criticism as. 64 per cent of the . new blood; that is an influx of followed closely by Professor considerable fluctuation. As an Chemistry: Werner students p.referred a change of bright young professors into the Stephen Berk of the History exarrtple, whilll 72% of the -~-Physics: Swartz ' : some sort. The overwhelming College faculty'' ( 40' pet cent), ''to ....::: Depa-rtment. Below is a list of the Niichols vote ·carne fiom Po'litical · .M ec:Iurn-ical Engineering: ' majority of tho-se who desired .· · keep · instructional' costs doWn\' 15 professors receiv;ing the most ScieHc~ ·fu~jors,· .only' 38% of the Shanebr4lok some change ment-ionecl the (26 per cent), and .'.'to prOvide a votes in respo.nse to the question; ~erk' · yote was. from History · E'le~tt!cal Engineering: Craig' addition of pluses and minuse~ to . flexihiHty ·of faculty which wbuld \Who is your favorite pr:ofessot af •· ·majors.' . .. Psy.dbology: Graves . the ·existing: ·grading system (40 be responsive to cbangi:ng student Union?\ It -is a.fso. interest·ing to note that . Arts:. Curtis. per cent) while 1'4 per cent . ;interests~; (23 pet cent). l. Nh:hols, Political Science about one-half of the top 15 Fina1'1y~' t~. general question . p·referred a pass-faH · honors.. Student 'perceptions of the 2 .. Ber.k, History· professors ate ·~ntenu'red. coHcern i·ng -·,the qua,N.ty of system, and the remaining 11 per academic attitudes of their tello'V. · 3. Graves, Psychology I-n ·;:rddition ~t~ the question .of dassr0om inst·Fl:ktion ·at· Union cent were ~plit among a straighr students· produced interesting 4. Craig, . E I e c. t rica 1 \favorite th.e. questionnaire pr.oduced . a favorable response. pass-fail system, eliminatioH of all relmlts. Sixty percent . ·of· the . Engineering . asked responden-ts to se·Ject the 74% of the s,t.udents agteed.with grades, and ot:her variations, respondents felt that .::union : 5. Butterstein, Biology \best\ professors i·n tbeir the statemerif:rilat, in genera:(,' the The recent cumulative index. students ·are'· anti~inte:I1ec1uals, ;:~ 6. Wells,' History particular majm'~ The- results are·· professors at Union ·are- good inflation was explained most .. Wh·ile 19 't)er ''cent took 'the .-.. 7. ·P. Allen, English shown below: classroom instructors while only often in terms of increasing:. oppositest;,rnd.-On the other:'hand 8. Hartw.ig, Political Science English: Gado I l% disagreed. The rem~ini-ng · quality of students (2:5 per cent}, 44 per ceqt of the respondents felt 9. Reece, Classics Ph~Iosophy: Ludwig 15% were undecided. There was lower standards of academic that Union students are fot the 10. Finkelstein; History Classics: Reece almost no difference ·in voting- achievement (23 per cent), females most part throats. whi,Je 34 per 11. Maddaus, Mathematics · Languages: Thomas patterns between. the two Centers. ( 10 per cent), and 'graduate school cent di~agreed. I 2. Tb om as, M od·ern pressures (6 per cent), with .a large ••••••••••• .. •• ~~·~;:::·~,~~~om~, · · Unioll·: ~~~:~:~:;:,~:~!':~!~:.~~., Problems al Union G ' . · ~~y bf~r~ad:ton~~i~~ng ~~e 1 !~~ by LARS BANG-JENSEN concern of 39 studen'ts. A number · (4), fraternities (2), and drugs ( i). OV t. · ' predominance of Center I Alarmed by . the continuing of students stated that Union TOP TWENTY PROBLEMS (especially Social Science) faculty. . . h. f 'd . students were ap;=tthe,tic about AT UNION H. t d p r . I S . mcr~ases m ~ ~ ~ost o e ucatwhn, everything except getting into I. Increasing Educational Costs IS ory an . 0 ltica .. Cience students r-esp<?nd'ing to t. e g·,ra,duate school. .. Inadequate. professors alone a~count- for ·Con.cortliensi!i.'. survey, rated , 2. lna:dequate Social Life nearly··one-~W~:Of the list:. Upon~',·, sprtiihng:~ tli:it_m'll':. :;frid· rbqm atl:rletic I facilities·· .. --~9-eJve~t .. a· 3. Student Apathy I · • . Po • • 1 , · · · som.ewhat surprisinglY. · strong· 4 1 d t A h 1 t · C oser examlll~t!Oil Qt ,-~J:!e. SUrVey . -expenses~:. as·· ~-tfti<\m~st pressing response ana. it ranked as 'the . . . n 3 . e qUa e . t e I C re~ults, a p~ausibte exp.Timaflon problem at Unior}. · Tne quality of follrth most importan:f prt)~'lem_. Fadlitie~ ·· mtght deal With the nature qft!'te wcial life . ~nd· ~tudent apathy with 35 responses. bu'fside 5, Housing Problems ~ourses in the 'rwo_ centers. foHowed ·C'i.o.seh, ·_:ranking. basketball co_urts; better facilities 6. Administrative Weaknesses Whereas many Center ll majors respectively as tJniorl's second for girls •. and additional hanc:JJ)al! 7. Tenwe Issue take electives in Politic!fl Science and , third -IJ.l~$t .: important and sq'uash courts. were among 8. Throats and-. English in· \Yhich · t~ey are. problems. · ' , · . theathietk desires of studentdn 9~ Male/female Ratio exposed to. Cerit.er l ·faculty, ' these findrl).gs-w~r,~el'idted in · · · ··· \·~ .10. Large Classes .. and relatively few s'tiiderits ·or Political response: to -'a. :quest:ion which· addition to the rennovatiorf oftne . Increasing Si?:e of Student Body· Science and English l!Se their asked 350 r-irndorril_y selected field. house scheduled for thi~ I I. StQdent Services (food, . ~ummer. lche housing. crunch and · · b k ) electives in Biology or Civil students to list the three biggest ,., rnamtenance, secunty, . oo ·store · . other dormitory .related problems 12 L k f s d o· · Engineering, and thus have no problems at' Union. Two hundred . · ac o tu ent 1versity were ·considered fifth in 3 s h 1 c 1 d chance to become a_cq uainted and seventy .students answered I-. · c oo a en ar . . importance with 27 answers. 14 p c · · with the faculty in these maJ_ors. this question and a total of '665 . oor ommumcatwns The top twenty. problems as 5 R · 1 T · d Many Center II students named responses wer-e obtained. .· d b ._ d. t d 1 I . acta · enston an professors in the other center as ):ncreasing educational costs percel~ve d. · bylresponThmg hs u. en sf· Problems h . f · .b h d'd . . . are 1ste- eow. etrusto 16 · L k··fc o· 't t en avonte, ut t e same 1 which by next fall w11I have nsen . · . . ac o our~e : Ivers• Y not hold true for Center I. by weil ·over $1000. ($900 in '\ t_hese top twenty problems would I?· Lack of Money for Needed Roth ' Continued from page 1 Dr. Roth: With .regard to level, we have no objec{ions to looking at established individuals. However, we would cert?inly expect such people to bring )'lith them grants or support commensurate with any reputation and special needs they might have. Certainly; .it's implici'tly part of our · recent policy with y'oung men to ascertain whether they are both able and willing te maintain research programs on the ))asis of the facilities we now -have ·or in a , very limited way can obtain for them. · 't' 1 ) r·. . seem to be that many s_.tudents · Pro•ects and Improvements tuJ Ion a one · over a 1ve year ' . , f - 1 · - ' '-' . d . 't .d b 44 t d . t· feel that Unwn s aCJ Ities are 18 Academic Pressures peno . were ci e ' y .· s u en s · . h h . · 1 · · · ( b t 16 f1/.) th t mediOcre at best, t at t e socm 19 Library · a ou , 0 as . e mos . · · d · · . t t bl F t environment ·Is madequate an 20 Inadequate Com_Puter 1mpor an pro. ·em. or Y ·h· . . , d ·t · . . : . ·. ·. . . · students indicated that the social t at t?o many stu en 8 .. are FacJhtie~. Ltmtted Fmanctal A1cl 'life. at Union aside from the ap~thetJc ~hroats. ln additiOn, and Campus Jobs (tie) I If ] t . Umon students demonstrate a \\\\--~--~ . ~a e e ~a e. . r a 10 . w a 8 real con.cern with the. college's These survey results and .the madequate. Abuut two-thirds of f' . . 1 bl ot· h the students responding in t·his . man~J_a pro , e_ms.. . er ensuing analysis are not, by d . . f\ d .th th mterestmg resp_ onses to the survey any · means, complete. There way were 1ssaus 1e· WI· .. e . k' h ( d b · d d' \t f · 1 not rna mg t e top twenty an are still many_ areas of th·e nu~. ~r an :versi Y 0 . socta perhaps conspicious for their · survey thaJ have not been actiVIties at U mon. . . absence) inclu.cled: dogs (8), poor analyzed and this analysis will Student apathy was a prmcipal profs (8), Comp. Ed. (7), Hebrew· appear in the first issues oftbe Moffett's Liquor .. Store 1505 VanVranken Ave. Schenectady, New York 12308' . . ~ADD TO YOUR EDUCATION- .. -LEARN MORE ABOUT WINES-- Join Our WINE TASTING .CLUB No AdmissiOf!S ( 'harxe -- No Requiremenis Each mortth- ·we ~elect a dilfcrcm wine to oc tc,tcd; ., here i' .,. card dl·;crihing .the 11·inc in grcm detail ~o ~ou cah 'learn ab<:llll it. On thi• c;trd-thcrc [,a ritturc of the lalicl w· ym.l ~:m remember the wine in ·the future to imprc'' ~tJlil' dale when you clinc.lli.Jt or ,;mpl)· want a ~ood b\ttlt: of 1\_int:. fall term next year. The text arid results 'of this survey·will·be put on computer- tape and made available to anyone w.ho wishes . to 'use them through N ucross. If you have any questio11s see 'Frank Messa or AI Reisch. -· -~~ Levrs . ' Dave':~: Me~-s Shop . . 453 State St~ · · · · (doW11tOWJ1 Schenet;tady) Four .questions, dealing with the . governme.nt at Union · were . included in the questionnaire. The . fi.r~t . was li general question · concerning President Martin's . overall performS}pce in runniilg the College. The final ratiQg distributed _. ar_ndng ·the f:oui: · choices was 9 Ptir '?ent excellent, 47. per cent goo~, 32 peF cent fair, and 12 per cent' poor. Freshman arid. upperdassmen differed slightly in their appraisal of President Marti11. While 52 per. cent of the Upperclassme-n rated t·)le President as either good or excellent, 60 per cent of the freshmen h~d a favorable valuation of Martin. · In contrast to the positive attitude , toward the College President, the administration in genera-l was .viewed as more unresponsive to students. 45 per cent of the students disagreed with the statement that the administration is responsive to student needs and demands while 28 per cent agreed. The remaining 27 per cent were undecided. As far as the utility of a Student Senate (Which is no longer in operation at Union) is concerned, 40 per cent did not consider it useful. in college goverl}ment, while 26 per cent tnought it wa:s a useful institution. · The question of governan·ce system at Urifon was paf.ticuhirly · interesting in fhat 3:? per cent of the responsents indicated that . . they did not know enbtlgh about· the. subject to answer the ·question. Of the 50 per cent of the respondents who did answer the ·question, the majority. (32%) believed that students have . . . .. ·n·. . . . .received .a bigger voice in college ·affairs. while · . rW per . cent disagreed with this position. The other factors of recruitment are not related to the facilities and equipment. They concern our current tenure . problem, and the fact that it is' undesirable, particularly in a field that is exploding . as rap.idly as biology, to have. a· department typified only by older individuals, no matter how capable they may be. APEX MUSIC KORNER ·~i~~==~fit:~::::~:~:r::::~::~:::;::?::~:=:~==~~:::~:~i::ir:::::::~:::~::::~;;::::::::::::::::;:~:~:;r:i~:~:~;:;ii~;:;~::::::::::~::::~::::~::::::~::::~:::.:~::~:::::::~::::~:::::~:~::::::::~:::::::::r;.;:~:=~;:~?.~:::~~:;: - ~illl ·Mauriee B. Gr·aubart & So-ns- ~j] Levrs I Dave'~· Mens Shop· I . 453 State St. . (downtown Schenectady) _ __} ' . . Announces New Student Discount For UNION STUDENTS- UPON PRESENTATION Ofi~. COLLEGE J.D. YOU GET .Qegular List Price Qn All Albums. & 10iDiscoiJIJt ' ' \ or sale price with a 10% discount CORNER BROAJ)'WAY AND STATE ST. !!:~: · · - · · -- - . · j 7\/it' S1 Jet l ·elt.'r? ~:?: ·Ill .. . . . . . . . II· :~1 ~For three ~::: Generations' * 1'66 Jay St. For Honest S~·rVice ~~~j And Cio,od .ieweiO' HERSHEL. MAUIUCE 8 WALTER ~lfJ. . ~:;:;~~f~:;*~=~~~~;:*:;:~::~:::;:;~::::~:::::::::r:::::~:~~:::::::::::~::~::::::::~'!~~~::~::~;:::~~~~::::::~;::::!::;::~~;:::;.~;:~;:~~::::~~~:::~:~~~:f.::::::;::~:::::~~$.::;~~::::~:::::~::~:::;;~~~~3?-~

