I l; ~ I 66T !XPRt6SeO. I, founded at Union Cofkg~ in 1871 Vol.103, No.2 It's hopeless. What? Friday, October 5, 1973 I can't think of a community that exists today. In the past? Maybe one or twoo Maybe we s'houldn't have kids anyway .. The world's so fucked up. Not my kids. Wbo the hell are we foolil,tg anyway? Trust. Union's a microcosm. Wha1? You can't say you're going to do something. Just do it. Challenge people. Shit. If we can't .... Who can? 2500 individuals? I can only see double standards hurting people. Only if it's legitimate. You for real? You bet your ass. No, 2500 of them. Get a grip. Why be so pragmatic? Why don't- we just lapse? We're not good enough to be cynics. Cynicism is just a rational for laziness. You're not. Throw me your lighter. 20 cents r oor CL08B6RW. ~G~r~ -ro wve. rcwse MLISBL.f ro wve: .. Publishen,Hall Syndiea.t.e · r S6L.F- t7£STRvcr. ro~ Ml/S6f...F TO I?B'SPAIR~ '~~ j 5AF&.

:I Page2 CONCORDIENSIS, Friday, October 5, 1973 . Union College Security Operations Security Analyzed . by AL REISCH This will attempt to summarize the authority of Kleinkauf as well. bodt the impressions received of One need not search far to find an the campus security system during individual who has called the desk the past week and more and received no answer. Thete is important will present some no rational reason for this. The· analysis of the security system in number 6178 is the campl!s general. It is not an easy task, it is emergency number and there is not one that we embark upon no way in the world that an li,ghtly and it is one that cannot be emergency can be handled if the put off any longer. phone is not answered. Kleinkauf The purpose of the campus has heard of these occurences security system is ob¥iously to several times and assures all of ke~p the campus secttrt:. Let us the complainants that he will take' begin with the premise that it is care of the matter. Fine, but how not, at this point in time. Mr. he goes about this is the problem. K.leinkauf states that \a good . It seems that the security force rapport\ exists between the has become same sort of club in security staff and the students. which friendship arid familiarity True. He views this as the take precedence over all.else. This indication of a successful security cannot work effectively. '\'•It is operation. False. necessary for a -strict mle to be that K..leinkauf refuses to handle dogs. T·his is a security matter. How can he refuse? Finally. it was stated by Mr, Kleinkauf that most of the theft here involves outside people. This assertion is naive at best. It is easy to operate under this assumption, but the fact of the matter is that in order for the amounts stolen to have been taken 'even predominately by ''Townies,\ we would have to have some sort of mass grouping of them on c~nJJlus.~;ach night. It is just not realistic. Until the fact of in-house theft is squarely faced, the problem will not be solved. You must identify your assailant before y<>u can protect yourself. Conclusion We know that John Kleinkauf stated and then to be enforced ... is an extremely likeable man. He Talking things over is fine if it This is the end result of a long cares about students and students works. It ha!'l not. and in valved pedod of photo JOHN B. KLEINKAUF and security officer. in return seem to care about him. The patrol of the campus is investigation and· research, which This is cer(ainly not the extent of carried out in cars. Fine .. Again, it involved tnany individuals and is a security operation, however. obviously has not worked. The close to the type that has been We stated that the campus is road near Davidson,. Fox:, and. carried out by a new efficiency D • f s • not secure. One source estimated South (South Terrace Lane) is a exper.t. We understand that his . Irec tor 0 ec uri ty approximately 100,000 dollars high crime area. 'it is. a conclusions parallel ours. It is our lost to the College community thoroughfalfe fo.r drunks to pass feeling that it is better to have by aJ.ow·IE· LAX .. k . . . . due to theft and vandalism last from one side of town ··o.· the these disclosures come from n. ttc ets ls luthle to be hit wtth a d . W't·h h b ~ students than fwm an outsider. A · $25 ft.'ne in ad'd·I.tl'on· to ·the·cos·ts of· aca emtc year. 1 · · · t e num er other at night. This is fact, watch cancature of a security f · We ha,'e ch ·k d nd r ·h k d · · k w· h 1 o ·articles already lost this year, it it some. ti':\'e .. ·It 1 ·.u· st ·seem· .s that' y • ec e a. · eo ec e officer. usually depicts the officer .prevrous tic ets. H · · on Y two · ld b f u• t. ·he ve ... ac1'ty of u · r· · t' h 'f · d'ff' \' wou ·· e olly to assume that this patr. ol her.e wou·.Id be· ·mo~e •·. · · o r m .ormaton as anything but a friendly person. men on a 8 1 t rt proves 1 tcutt · 11 d · ,. and we ·ha· ve·· not re·port d a p' t 11 h I II h . a111?unt Wl . ecrease. It !s~asy to effective on foot. ln.deed, . . . . . . .. . . e . ·Ieee However, such is not the 0 survey a . t. e ots a t e ttme. b 1 h · ff of information unless we received d . .. · · Many. people have questt;one· d ·. ·ame t ·e secunty sta effectiveness is a rea' 1 catc-hword tsposttton ofJohn.H. Kleinkauf, h 1 · ~ ,·t from·· at least tw·o u the poor response to alarms t emse ves. when talking about security, For · · · · · ·. · ·· sG rces, our own head of security. Under Upon some i-nvestigation, som· ·e reason ·M· .r. K·Jet\nka.uf \.ee·Js whom we feel tG be reliable. Our the official title of Director of whiCh are (for one reason or · i' pu· rpo · · 1 · · d t be h f . however,. it becom. es. ap_paren. t t'hat he can d·o notht'.n.·g. a·b. out . se IS simp e ... we nee. o S 't d s f M anot er) set of. It seems that the ecun y an a rety; .. ·r. that the problem hes ·m the . mot.orcycle· s. ·t·h·at .race .ac.ross. the secure here if We are to have any Kl · k f th h security office doesn't know when f · em au comes . roug . as a the alarms go off, as the alarm organization of the .operation an~ grassy parts of campus at. night. sense o. community at all We calm, friendly, and interested 1 • . h b . . the m. an. resp.onsrble for th.· 18 Why?. \'l;'he a.1Jswer· most .usually need to be safe .at least in our day- individual. With 32 years of on Y nngs m t e mlduJ.g it is 1 to day d a!' gs 1 , orgamzatto. n IS the Secu. nty recel'ved l·s .that we can't catch ; - ·, . e .In • . Servl .ce t th F B 1 h' ocated m. The only a. !arms with M K 1 k f ·. . o e .... , IS Director. Through a.n analysis of t'hem .anywa.y T·l .. t h . .r,.. elil au !S a personal Credent .al t b t' d central controls are the pull boxes · . . · · 1e pom · ere IS f · d 11 · · 1 k · d 1 s canno e ques wne . 'the actiOns-of John Klemkauf we that-.there should ,at leas.t be a.n . nen . e Is tru y a m and With his \open door\ policy, Mr. (for fires) whicfi are located about h h f d Kleinkauf feels he is available to campus. In other words; the force · ope to 8 ow some 0 the attempt. The same holds true for Continue ·on Page 6 k · h d · can't act until they are called. Mr. deficiencies of this system. dogs. For some reason it seems spea Wit stu ents anytune and to get to know them as well. Kleinkauf explained that the men Tbe Director of Security As Qn most campuses acrosS' have to log in when they get a call Let us start at the beginning. the nation, Union College has and again when the alarm is reset. The first time that most students been plagued with thefts. When · In a survey,: he claimed it took an come into contact with the questioned on the matter Mr. · average of. ·fifteen minutes foi'· a security system here is when they Kleinkauf suggested that the call to be answered. are ticketed for a parking amount of thefts were normal and On the whole he feels that there violation. Mr. Kleinkauf states mostly had to do with bicycles. , is \good rapport\ between the that he is convinced that the He also said that a few students students and the security force. . ticketing procedure is fair. All were caught with school property Mr. K!einkauf also keeps in infractions that are discovefed are and that these students were contact with the RA's, certain ticketed. Over the course pf the turned over to the Dean of students, and frats. last ten days we have built up a Students. Interjecting his own T.he, only reason claimed by sizeable parking fine fe;e in opinion on the subject he also Mr. Kleinkauf for placing the proving that this is just not the said that \a great pe!7centage of security office above the cas\!. One night last week four thefts came from outsiders.\ Rathskeller is its the central student cars weJ:e parked outside On the drug quest-ion he location. . of South CoHege overnight. The refused to give his own opinion, next morning two of the cars wer.e but Kleinkauf did say that \the •. · . • .. _ . ticketed and two were not. None law is a tough one and the • ·. of the owners of these vehicles indications are that it will be • had any reason for not being enforced.\ Talking of the tough D , ticketed, and yet for some reason attitude on drugs coming from aves· Mens Shop there was an inequality here. We the Dean's office, Mr. Kleinkauf J 453 State St. saw the tickets being placed on emphasizeh? 1 hthe .P 11 arbticulakrly h~rdh ~=(:d:o:w:n:t:o:w:.n=S:c:h:~n:ec:=t:ad:y:)::~t:_ t?ek cadrsWandd onlyk two where s ance w 1c w1 e ta en Wit ~\ t1c ete . 'e o not now w y. dealers. The security force has not M CAJ- ·o· AT- GRE A reliable source has told the yet busted anyone. · following: Mr. Kleinkauf feels it With a force of nine officers s T ATGS 8 necessary and proper to rip up and one fire inspector he has ·L A - · parking tickets of some students if never found it necessary to call in . . . he feels that these students could outside assistance but, he admits 0 c·AT be useful at some later date. We to having to use the entire force . . find this intolerable. Sure, its nice back in the spring of '71 when the ·NAT' L • 8 D·S • to have a ticket cancelled, yet this student sit-ins were on. However, kind of blackmail can only serve Mr. Kleinkauf believes that the to e.Xpioit students in the long * Preparation for tests reqo ired tor school temperament has moved admission to graduate and profes- run. away from campq.s protest. sional schools Alon,g the same lines we have Not having any official • Six and twelve session courses learned of an instance in which affiliation with the local • Small groups Mr. Kleinkauf enli'sted the help of authorities, Mr. K.Jeinkauf feels it *Voluminous material for ttome study· a student who had previously run preparlld by experts in eachfield unnecessary to call in the police afoul of campus security in the . · \'Le9SOn schedule can be tailored to k f · · except m cases concermng meet lndi.vidual needs. Lessons tas o recovermg a stolen object outsiders. In other words, he said, can be Spread over a period of and capturing a thief. This is we ·~try to keep our own house several months to a year, or for again an instance of the clean.\ out of town students, a period exploitation of a stUdent and of one week The question of parking seemed ·•Opportunity-for review of past could again lead to severe· to be very cut and dried. There lessons via tape at the center problems for both that student are spaces set aside for student and for the Security system. It is parking, usually adjacent to the Speciat Cot11pact Courses during not even so much the act itself but dorms and frats; there are certain Weekends- lntel1essions the spirit in which it . is lots reserved for faculty and two Summer Sessions perpetrated that makes this so lots for commuters. According to STANLEY lt. KAPLAN sick. There is no excuse for the Mr. Kleinkauf, .. the men are EDUCATIONAL CENTER LTD. Director of Security, at any time, instructed to ticket for any 16'i5.Eost 1 6th StrHI BroolciVn. N. v u· . . . to make deals with students. This ·violations.\ The first fine is $1, (2121336-5300 '?c;!', : sort of collusion can only serve to and all subsequent fines $5. (516) 538--4555 · . r. limit the effectiveness of both However, the owner of an DA'>'s.EveNINGs,w~el<eNos parties. unregistered car; after a few Branches in Ma.jor Cities in U.S.A. The Richmond desk is under f.ht Tut<>ri~ Schot>l wlrh lh!! Nation wid• llepalalwrt More Security SECURITY FORCE Over the past week interviews were c<mducted among· several students concerning the security force. !'he general question was \What is your impressicm of the security force at U rtion College?\ Minor individual questions were . also asked in some cases to get the person's feelings. It mUst be kept in mind that these interviews are limited and do not necessarily reflect the opinion of the entire student body. (Fresllman): I guess that they're okay. There haven't been any killings or rape so far this. year. It's only been two weeks. I know they need mote (street) lights. It doesn't make me to happy about my bike tire being slit. They don't have much real authority. (Fresllman): l don't set; them much except wandering around campus. From what I hear they do a pretty good job. I feel better knowing that they're there if I need them. .(Soph.): My impression is not much. I don't see them much. I don't ]mow of any incidents around campus. It's not dangerous. It's hard (for me) to judge. (Juni()r): I never run into them much. I have nothing to do with then:'. Everybody does what they say ... obeys them. There's never much problem. They have been effective but there hasn't been any situation Where they really had to assert tbemselves. The main problem is with firecrackers. When they show up the fireworks stop. They look pretty old .. They don't look like the type of guy to respect but they get it anyway. (Juni«Jr): They seem to enjoy playing with their walkie-talkies. Basically I think they're O.K. I haven't had anything ripped Gff yet. I can't see why they do some thingS'tlley do, like why they lock up all the doors of .the science building except the computer terminal. (Senior): Gro~sly inadequate, they were always very short of men. Some are really archaeic but cool guys. Only one could really do anything. If you call them, it's a hig joke on campus, but they show up. They're pretty reliable. lf's so easy to knock anything on camp~. ·Well, there's nothing you can dq., you . know, if a bicycle is stolen. You can only report it. It's hard {for me) to put them down because they're such gteat guys. It's a long .standing joke that no one has to pay (a parking ticket) ·if they wanted to try to talk their way out of it. You always could. If they weren't there, if ... anything got . ripped off you would have no one to report it to .... It probably wouldn't be much different. * * * * THOUGHTS OPINIONS . ,;; . ~. AND 0 F THE SECURITY O.F WEST COLLEGE Student #1 \The biggest need of security Continued on Page 6. ' --- ---.--, John & Mr. Ed · t 1 Invite You To See Our ~~ Nuts f AT f t T.· .. . t t DE t t BED Fo· x··t t. .· ·t t INN f I ~'A Quiet Bar'' t ~ 123 Jay Street . l 1 Bud by the Pitcher 1 ·~-------· De a by ( Leroy Assistant D now Assist: sees himselJ of hats; an wear those numerous Assistant [ Moore is Academi Program, ~ advisory C• Bound. He Student Committee! works close and Ad1 recruit in! conducting latter. Mr. Mo( University Middletowt worked wi1 recruiting students. S graduation Assistant r: at Union. for three named A Students. r the new a· \Assistant 1 new job or but rather student ne being met. Dean of and Moore \Open Oo1 they want f come and wish to be problem a whether it academic. The lac feeling Qn concern ·of He is curre to promote Also of c campus ra~ among som coeducatior Dean of interested i in ways ( .. commented Dean r.. colleague, 1 of an \i: energy.\ H has probler1 with, but Leroy Moo of being th( Seniors!!l of the end. be taken 0 18. Sign Activities 0 The hours p.m. and 1: sitting fee i tax). Appeat Coffee} McCar-; group, starts a

CONCORDl-ENSTS, Fri~ay, ~ctoJ:er'5, 1973 . · Upward Bound · Page3 Dean·Moore by CURT BROWN Leroy Moore, the former Assistant Director of Admissions, now Assistant Dean of Students . sees himself as ••a man with a lot of hats; and a man who tries to wear those hats:• Aside from his numerous respansibilities as Assistant Dean of Students, Mr. Moore is also director of the A c a d em i c 0 p p o r t un i t i e·s Program, and a member of the advisory committee of Uowatd Bound. He is on the Conduct. Student Life, and Drug Committees. ln addition, Moore works closely with the Placement and Admissions Offi·Ces. recruiting students and conducting interviews fot the latter. photo by Hershel Rqff LEROY MOORE of Amsterdam Troy and . Because the Economic by BILL TALIS Schenectady. ' ' Opportunity programs have In the affluent surroundings of Director Anthony Sharp received reduced financ~a~ supi?ort Union College, jew students are explains that Union's Upward under the present Admmtstratwn, aware <>f the organizations Bound Program is divided into Upward Bound has taken over working within the Coll~ge two sections, a summer program the. void left by .these prog~ams community performing vttal and an academic year program. whtch ha? pro~1~ed vocational services for disadvantaged Since the program deals with low and techmcal trammg. Mr. Sharp students. U,pw11rd Bound is one of i n c 0 me · ·s t ud en t s wit h states, \Our students. can '?ore those organizations. It provides motivational problems, Mr. readily see getting Jobs educational aid for low-i11corue Sharp states, \We try to reflect immediately because the rewards . high . sch.oo J stud·ents with the target population we serve, . are more tangible th~~ coll~ge, academic abilities who have not and maintain a balance of and they can see the difficult tt~e had th.e o·pportunity or .students among the communities college students have searc?mg motivation to develop those participating. ·Students are for jobs upon graduation. abilities. . recruited by means of high school Upward Bound P!esents t?e · Upward Beund of Union counsellors recommendations, various o.ptions available to _Its ·College is o11e of approxima~ely and many social service students:~ Mr. Sharp exp!ams Mr. Moore attended Wesleyan University. While at the Middletown, Conn., school, he worked with its admissions staff recruiting minority gr.oup 350 locations across the Umted organizations, with which ·we that Upwa~d Boun.d . actlv~ly States, and .is federally funded by maintain contact.\ follows up Its as~ocmtwn w~th the, Office of Education. The The summer program is a six- stude~, by _hel~mg out -w:•th program serves the high schools week program, during which colleg · apphcat1ons, seek~ng students reside in Hickock and finan · · I aid for college and JOb Edwards Houses. Faculty placement for those who do not includes certified public school seek fmther education. Says Mr. teachers and Union College Sharp, \All students in Upward faculty. The ratio of students to Bound who want to go to college counsellors is 5-l, and classroom do so. Th<ise that decide not to go size is 3-7 students per class. on to college, do so by their own Governance students. Shortly after his 1970 BY GERARD QUINN graduation be was app.oi~tec:J If you have expressed Assistant Director of Admtssions contumacious contempt for the at Union. He held this position contemporaneous collegiate. for three years, before being constitutional contrivance, you named Assistant Dean of may be pleased to learn that plans Students. Moore daes not view are being formulated to clear the the new administrative position murky waters of the laws \Assistant Dean of Students\ as a goveming the Ste.ering new job o:r position to· be filled. Committee. According to Cathy but rather as a \response\ to \\I!melli, · Steering Committee student needs which were not. Secretary, and Mark Young, S.C. being met. . Vice,. President, the clarification of Dean of Students Mark Smith a \very ambiguous\ constitution and Moore intend to maintain governing the. student government \Open Door Policies.\ That is. may be one of the major projects they want students to feel free to to he undertaken in the upcoming come and talk with them. They year. wish to be made aware of any · More mundane topics were problem a student may have, discussed at the ·first meeting of whether it be academic or non- the Steering Committee held academic. ' Monday, October l, however. The lack of a community Mr. Larry Brown opened the feeling on campus is a major meeti11g by announcing that concern of the Assistant Dean. elections for Freshman He is currently working on plans Representatives will be held on to promote a community fee!in~. October 30. Petitions requiring Also of concern to Moore Is the signatures of 20% of the campus racism and the feeling freshman class will be available in among some people that Union is the upcoming weeks. coeducational only in name. \The Mr _ Donald Leach reported Dean of Students Office is that bulletin hoards scheduled for interestecl in these problems. and erection in the Student Center in ways <If solving them\ he this s11mmer are not yet up, but .. commented. has the assurance of Maintenance Dean Moore described his that tbey will be installed this fall. colleague, Dean Smith, as a man Mark Young reported that the of an ''incTedible Wealth of Computer Science Committee is energy.\ He realizes that Union investigating possible solutions hQs problems which must be dealt for the program congestion which with but remains optimistic. occurs at the end of each term. ., ' .. Leroy Moore gives the impressum Several recommendations made of being the same type of person. by the Committee on Committees --------·--· ~· ...._. · were approved including the . B L 'J T H E R·'.. ap~~~~:e~o~~rd to Comp. Ed. · ·S~niors!!! 'This is the beginning Richard Semble to College of the end. Senior portraits will Center _ be taken October 15 through the · Ste-wart 1 Abramson to Student 18. Sign up in the Student life Activities Office with Mrs. Marra. RDsemary Rice to Elections, The hours are from 9 a.m. to I and · p.m. and 1 :3() p.m. to 5 p.m. The Linda Young to Presidential Search Committees. sitting fee is $3.00 (plus 12 cents In addition, Bruce McLauglin tax:). Appearing tonight Friday~ Oct. 5 at Union College Coffeehouse is Boston singer-songwriter, . Bob McCarthy. Peifarming on the same bill will be Union group, the Edward Fo:x Wooden Band. The show starts at 8:30p.m. in the Old Chapel. Admission ·is 50 cents. was approved as Chairman of tne College Center Committee, a11d Stewar-t. Abramson was ma<le head <Jf the Student Life Committee. Mitch Weisburg will investigate the terms of a contract with the Saga Food Service because of several complaints that students should have the option of buying a meal ticket. Several students attending the choice. We're not looking for all Upward Bound program in past 'A' students, but rather to help years now go to Union College. disadvantaged students realize \The drop-out rate ftom the their potential:'• In m)' interview with Young and lanelli, l learned that they feel that a change in the presellt form of student government is necessary. They poilit out that •when tbe major govermnent:al changes were instituted in 1971, the constitution ·Of the Steering Committee was only nominally altered. Some great changes may be necessary in order to provide for more cohesion in the general scheme ~f the campus. When questioned about th~ - possibility of a · repeal of the mandatory student fees, neither saw much interest in the stude:nt body on tbis question, nor any feasible altemative to the present system. A general uneasiness among commuters has been observed at Union b:y some, and inclusion of commuters in student affairs and government to a greater extent is certainly desirable. Miss lanelli felt that a. commuter who took consistent interest in · student concerns has a good chance of standing for election to the government or appointment to ~- vario_us c_<_?!l:lmi~~~s~ , . p= program\ Mr. Sharp points out, \is very low, because the students realize Upward Bound•s committment to them., Upward Bound has an excellent record of students entering college. with a drop-out rate that is below the national average. The academic year program involves bringing students to L 1 nion College on Saturdays for classes and cultural activities in addition to tutoring. Volunteer help by Union students during the academic year is encouraged and needed. The national program began in 1967, and was established at Union College in 1968. Originally funded by the Office of Economic Opportunity. Upward Bound's. funding changed to the Office of' Education in 1970. Gerald Cooke, Assistant Director of the Upward Bound program and a Union graduate in ~73, says, \There seems to be a trend of less interest in coltege. At the same time, there seems to be a shifting interest toward vocational training.\ This trend continues despite the Nixon Administration's reduction ·of vocational school opportunity programs . n coNcORDIENSIS founded at Union College in 1877 Edit()r in Chlef.. ......... 1 •••• ~·.; ............................. AI Reisch M • Ed\ · Rita Morandi anag:tng . I tors .. : .............. -................... . Dave Strom News Editor ..................... ········-···········-..... Geoff Taylor Features Editor ..................................... Phyllis Edelman Sports Editor .............. ,. ............................... Bart Mercer I · · Ed\t . . Don Krone nvestlgattve · 1 or ......... ,. ........................... . Busi11ess Manager ........ _ ......................... , ... Alan Gnessin Naticnal Ads ................................................ Steve Kelly Photography Editors ........ ,. ........................ Bill Erichson Les Kernan Jeff Weilberg CopyEditor ................................................ Phil Alcabes S ·b · · ·- - Mike Bernstein Q- scr.l.pti()ns ..................... - ....................... . STAFF: Celeste Lindsey; Dotsie Whitney, Karen Sokoloff, Linda Mackey, Steve Klal<:., Lisa Baron, Fred Abott, Kevin Scoles, Jon Sargent. C()JJcordiensis is published .every Wednesday during the. school year except during examinati<Jn and vacation periods . by. the student body of Union College. Schenectad~, N.Y. Nat1?~al Advertising Representative: National Educational .Advertl!nng Service. Inc., NYC. Editorial office, Old Gym Hall, Umon College. Publi.cation office, The Jewish World Publications. 771 . State Street, Schenectady, New Y <Jtk. 12307 (346-2356). Entered 1.n ~he Schenectady .post office as Second Class M~il Matter; Subscr!ptlon rate: 20 cents a copy. 8 dollars a year delivered anywhere m the United States, Deadline for all copy, Which must..be TYPED AND DOUBLE SPACED, is 7 p.m. on Tuesday at the Concordiensis office, located third floor Carnegie. The office phone numberis 37C-6155. but the office is in use only on Monday and· Thursday nights. FOR ALL EDITORIAL MAilERS CALL THE EDITOR-IN-CHIEF AT 370-6126, FOR INFORMATION CALL tviRS. MARRA IN THE STUDENT ACTfVITIES OFFICE AT 170-6118. plloto DY Bill Erichson GERRY COOKE The College Center Committee has set the opening date of the Center on . Monday, October 1, and the hours for use of Strauss Lounge, the game room and snack bar as follows: S110., 10 am-midnight Mon., 18 am-2 am Tues., 10 am-2 am Wed., 10 am-2 am Thurs., 10 am·:Z am Fri., 10 am·midDigbt Sat., 10 a.m.-midnight Grants will cover the first floor during the following hours: Sun., 10 am-midnight Mon., 4 pm-2 am Tnes., 4 pn-2 am Wed., 4 pm-2 am Thurs., 4 pm-2 am Fri., 4 pm•midnight Sat., 10 am•midnight _ In that the 24-hour study room on the third floor Will be open soon (we hope), the building itself will be open 24 bouts. All facilities, however,· should be locked by Security at the end of the \open\ period and unlocked at the beginning of the open period for the ne:xt day. llnd ANNUAL INTRAMURAL CROSS-COUNTRY MEET On Friday, ·Oct. 12th at 3!10 the Second Annual Intramural Cross-Country Meet wiD be beld. The meet wUI be directed by Prof. Ted . Dick and officiated by members of the Cross- Country team. It is open to all students, faculty, staff and alumni. Ribbons wlll be awarded to the top tltree individuals and to the t()p three three-man teams. After this race a special one- inile race for women will be held. The prizes are identical to those tor the open race. All interested parties should sign up in the Gym office before noon on Thursday, October t lth. ·

l I 'I :1 Page4 CONCORDIENS/S, Friday, October 5, 1973 Housing With· a Smile by SUSAN OUFEL Debbie Kilgus is Director of Housing for Union College. Because I am a new student on campus, the. only contact that .J have had with the Housing Office has been through reading a series of stories on last years' Director of Housing, Dean Shelia Beam. Through the grapevine I heard that she had been replaced with a 1973 graduate of Union College, Miss Debbie Kilgus. My apprehension had its basis in the unfavorable reports from previous years. Now, it was mv interests. A 1973 graduate from Union, with a degree in psychology, Debbie had transferred two years earlier from a women's college in Pennsylvania. Following a .series {'>f interviews after graduation, she hecame Director of Housing at lJ nion. I asked her exactly what responsibilities a Director of Housing has. She answered that, \The Housing Department works with most of the other offices on campus, such as Security, Business, SAGA, and Dean Smith. I work with the RA's to plan programs for the dorms, and with Maintenance to see that rhings are in good repair in the dorms, and, of couse, I place students in rooms and dormitories upon admission to Union.\ ~kiing and tennis. Debbie is a-lso taking a course in American Studies. I left Debbie's office with a restored faith in administrators; my previous assumptions about her had proven false. I felt that I had found a person with a genrri'tt'~interest in students as well as fellow administrators and faculty. * * * * The Schenectady Museum Union College Concert Series will present the Belgrade Chamber Orchestra on Wednesday. October lOth in Memorial Chapel at 8:30 p.m. It is FREE to all Union students with an l. D. P.Jease come and please be prompt. * * * * OPI,NION Once again, Union College has been ~nvited to nominate foqr ~andi«<ates for the Watson Traveling Fellowship Program. AU :graduating seniors are eligible, regardless of sex, race, nationality, under:graduate programs, .previous · foreign experience, draft status, or career plans. The Fellowships are worth $7,(100 each (or $9,500 for married students) a•1d are generally intended to help newly•graduated students spend a ye~u ubroad in the study of almost any conceivable topjc. · · Last year, Union!s applicants were extremely successful, with three of the four nominees receiving Fellowships. Any interested senior should prepare a formal letter of ~pplication, .stati:Qg tb.e reasons that tile applicant is interested in a Fellowship, together with a fairly detailed statement of the prpgr;~m whi.ch will be followed if the Fellowship is awarded. this.letter should be no longer than .five double-spaced typed pages. In addition, a letter' of recommendation should be obtained from at least one member of tile F acuity who ~nows the applit:ant ~nd the applicl:int's work. These docu~nents sbould be delivered to Professor Charles Swartz in room N3ZO of the Science-Engineering Center. More detailed instructions al'e available from Professor Swartz, or from the Physics Department Secretary (Room N308 of the S-E Center). TRE DEADLINE FOR ALL APPLICATIONS AND LETTERS OF. RECOMMENDATION IS 12 NOON ON MONDA. Y, OCT. 8. photo by Bill Erichson DEBBIE KILGUS During the course of our conversation, students came into her office to re4uest room changes. Some students were unhappy in their present room a rta ngement and wished to change rooms or dorms. After listening to each situation ~eparately and attentively, Debbie arranged to have their living quarters switched. I asked her if there had been any serious problems with students insisting on room and dorm changes. \If you let people know the situation and the possible alternatives, they are cooperative and generally very helpful if problems arise.\ Higher Education job to interview an administrator ·with whom hone of my peers had . any previous contact. My biased presumptions were dispelled as 1 walked into her office. I was warmly greeted by a friendly young woman who enthusiastically agreed to chat with me and to answer any 4uestions I might have. For the next 20 minutes, we spoke about her job as Housing Director, Union College and her outside The Director of Housing job lleems to consume most of Debbie's time but she has some time to enjqy a few sports, such as by JOHN PIZZUTO Help Wanted The ostensible purpose of the drug law that went into .effect on September I of this year was to force addicts off the street and into clinics. \Don't get caught,\ the advertisements warned, \get help!\ I'm not quite sure how many drug addicts there are at Union College this fall, but nevertheless there are the disturbing reports of student narcotic agents and phone taps in each dorm. Student narcotic agents! It's goood to know that help is so close at hand. It'!> good to know .that the guy next to you in your Comp Ed class might just love to help you seek help. It's good to walk ar.9und campus and eye each new face suspiciously; it keeps you alert. It's nice to know that someone might be jotting down the particulars of your conversation with your girl friend on the phone. And those maids and maintenance men ... hmmm. AU in all, it provides a healthy academic ·atmosphere where ~tudents can get together with other students to relax and enjoy themselves. They might have to limit their topics to baseball and the weather, but what else is there anyway? by FRED WEINSTEIN In these troubled times, when so much of our attention has been focused on the Watergate scandal and its revelations of powerful people engaging in criminal activity, we have tend.ed to overlook the work of fine people helping others. One of the organizations we have overlooked is the Schenectady County Humane Society. The Society operates a childrens' shelter (at 210 Union Street) which serves as a temporary home for children who have been neglected, tormented., or abused by their parents. Some of the children have been subjected to the neglect of alcoholic parents, others come from homes where one of the parents has abandoned the home and still others have been subjected to physical abuse. ln any ·case, there is no doubt that the child has endured a great deal of suffering and is in need of much care. The shelter attempts to provide this care by serving as an emergency home (usually for just 90 days) for the child until a ·decision is made by a case worker as to whether or not the child should return to his original home or enter a foster home. Although the shelter provides for such things as meals, instruction from a certified teacher, and the care of Yolunteer \house mothers\ more is needed. The lives of these children have heen thrown into a state of chaos ~ince they are without parental guidance. Although the Society attempts to rehabilitate each child's parents by paying for the services of the appropriate rehabilitative agencies, children frequently re-enter the shelter after returning to their homes. where the parents remained abusive. The absence of parental ·zuidance for the child results in a ~eed for direction from another :-.ource. The fact that there is just one social worker for the 30 children that live at the shelter makes it difficult for the child to receive the personal attention he or she needs. Mrs. Ethel Dowalihy. Executive Director of the Schenectady Humane Society, feels that Union students can aid in· supplying some of this personal attention by coming to the shelter on a constant basis, perhaps once a week, and. interacting with the children on a one to one basis. She suggested activities such as walks, tutoring, or going to the Schenectady Boy's Club. The most important thing is that t~e ~t udent should honor a commitment since as Mts. Dowaliby related, .. the children have been exposed enough already to people showing no concern for their feelings.\ A sad commentary on Union students was the fact that in the past, fraternities ·an,d independ~ts from Union were constantly coming to the shelter and working with the children but now not a single Union student can be found there. It is inexcusable for Union students to ignore the needs of these children. Working with these children can he very rewarding and when we are needed by others we should help them. The shelter is a short walk down Union Street from the campus. The phone number of the Society is 346-4521. The Society will be very grateful to those who volunteer. As a result of the siege, the Union College campus has practically run dry. Following the first week of classes, marijuana become a scarce novelty. With the exception of a s.tray Quaalude here and there, barbiturates, a,mphetamines, and hallu- cinogens have disappeared entirely from school. Apparently this trend will continue to dominate the rest of the term. In the meantime, alcohol consumption l'fas risen steadily, as well as the number of anxiety attacks. Floor parties have hecome. especially subdued for fear of attracting undesirables. Acute xenophobia prevails. A ~eneral mood of discontent seems pnoto by tslH J:<..rlchson turntables ~ no more excuses for scratched records. t,o be mounting day by day, as ~tudent reaction to the stifling atmosphere bccom.es mofe and more severe. So what if a couple of pre-meds get busted? There are plenty of dectors in the world already. And who need's lawyers and engineers? Ruin a few careers and .set some examples for the rest. God damn wide-ass college kids! Gotta keep 'em in line. Oh yeah. the first arrests made under the new drug law were in Nassau County, where police grabbed two teenagers at 12:01 am on September I, with three joints each. The next day, the first ·organized raid broke . down the door of a middle-aged woman's apartment in NYC and frightened her into falling thnmgh a second- floor window. Needless to say, it was the wrong apartment. But ~uch boundless enthusiasm is laudable in an otherwise dull environment. I'm sure the woman would agree. So, to all the public enemies under attack in the dorms, keep the curtains closed and be very careful the next time someone comes knarck, knarck, knarcking at your door. Jesus, it's only 1973. George Orwell was off by eleven years. Newcomer Nancy Smith by HEADLESS I k II AND BUGGY LA SELLE Schenectady is difficult to spell; total ignorance ofits whereabouts makes this ''Electric City\ an even greater enigma. Consequently, Nancy Smith's (Dean Smith's wife) ini,tial reaction to Schenectady and Union probably paralleled you.r guidance counselor's: \Where's that?\ Nevertheless, the month of J1,1ne found Nancy and her husband, Mark, tra\Veling to Schenectady with all the,ir possessions, including one car, piled · in the back of a rented truck. In her new role as wife of the Dean ot- Students, Nancy sees great potential in Union. Using her alma mater, Dennison (a small co~ed school), as a comparison, she recognizes the need for additional community action at Union. At Dennison, a well-equipped student union, in addition to a more natural co-ed environment, helped the college maintain a greater sense .of unity. Nancy feels that an i~crease in · Union's female population and a centraliz.ed meeting. ~lace could hegin to eliminate some of the fact'ions that she sees. as existing at Union. Nancy thinks that this focal poin~ could also keep the photo by Hlair Reischer NANCY SMITH faculty on campus, making professors more accessible to students. Still, Nancy remains optimistic, !laving been encouraged by those friendly and impressive Union students that she has already met. Her job as a program analyst in the computer center· has given her the opportunity to meet people. In order to increase their acquaintances, Nancy and her husband have opened their home to students and faculty. All are invited to drop by.· · :BLI'r.HER Ski Patrol meeting, Thursday, ()ct. 1 I at 4:30 p.m. in Strauss Lounge. Questions:- 374-7342. * * * * Unselfish:ness - think of your friend and then of yourself. Tuesday night at 6:45 in HU IB we cordially invite you to a Christian Science informal organization meeting. :he meeting will include Bible readings and testimonies of the daily use of Christian Science. Join us f0r an .hour of thinking of vour friend and then of yourself. ·unselfishness. * * * * There will be a yearbook in~eting at 7:30 p.m .. Monday, October 8 in Room 304 Carnegie. Be there! * * * * Oesk Blotters are now available -~ Off' in the Student ActlVltieS Ice. ·~--~ .. · .•.. ~ ... Dave's·.M,ens Shop 453 State St. (downtown Schenectady) ·c The form~ College Cent on Monday 1 of cha1lenge community. Center is d upon its sub! upon stand policies, and future. A .geneml first floor comfortably Lounge (whit for pr,ivate kitchenette, : ping pong ta bar a.rea o tables, and ~urprisingly c serviced by rr its initial ! eventl..!ally ex by PAl Think bacl doing on ·~ probably: we classes were !! they started you were Admissions first matricul• class of I 978 dozen high s been accept< Union next ) J.A. Sht Admissions l that these stt under the \E Under this submit their September Is interview rec their app September. Not all s under the \I are accepted Shupe was < Many are d~ are told tha will be revie\i the Decembt program admissians p year. A few their record • meet the admitted to One of th \Early Bird\ senior year i pressured. ~ devoted to worrying th~ that fifteer • ••••• • • • THE 5Oth i of' • • • • • • «u a an( ·fmpo. 135 • Tel. ••••••

CONCORDIENSJS, Friday, October 5, 1973 Page5 College Center Opens The formal opening of the College Center in Carnegie Hall on Monday unleashed a number of challenges to the ~ol'lege community. The success of the Center is aependent not only upon its substantial facilities but upon standards and hence policies, and proposals for rhe future. A genera'! runaown teve:;l!ls the first floor as comprising the comfortably furnished Strauss Lounge (which may he reserved for private par-ties) with a kitchenette, pool, biiliards, and ping pong tables, and the snack bar area of wooden booths, tables, and chairs, which is :surprisingly congenial since it is :serviced by machines only. Still in its initial stages, the Center eventually expects to serve as the nucleus for all student activities. In time the St.udent Activities Office will move, the -mail and package pickup system may be transferred t·here, and extensive bulletin board space should be available shortly. The sec.ond and third .. floors boast numerous activity rooms, some in which WR UC and Concordiensis have alreacly taken up residence. And finally, the all-night study .room, complete with a cigarette machine; will be located on the third floor. Quite seriously, the College Center is ours and anything is possible. And because it truly does belong to us as members of this College community, we carry the responsibility of maintaining as well as enjoying it. Fact: The Center could well have been opened two and a half weeks ago were we not such a tremendous security risk. Even as it stands now, opening at 10 a.m. every morning and locking up at 2 a.m. on weeknights and 4 a.m. on Friday and Saturday \nights\ leaves the Center unguarded and thus most vulnerable some thirty h.ours a week. Becaus.e it is our Center, consider that it is we who are susceptible to loss - and should we lose, there are few alternatjves as to the fate of the Center. With sincere intentions of encouraging people to come and use what is there, we are invited as well te respect and preserve the Center as it stand:; now in order to as~u.re continued access to this welcomed addition to Union. photo by Kohel Haver Studying in the Student Center? Steering Committee Meets October I, t 973 The meeting was convened at 9:05 p.m. with Larry Brown presiding. There were no absentees. Larry Brown opened the meeting by introducing the members of the Steering Committee to any new students present. He then announced that the electiens for Freshman Representatives would be held on October 30, 1973. . ph9to by ·Kohel Haver PINBALL WIZARD Don Leach reported on the progress of getting the Ride Board and the bulletin boards put up in the College Center. Maintenance did not get the boards over the summer, but they will take care of it this fall. Don informed the Committee that it would probably be another month before the boards are put up. Early Birds · Mar Y oling reported that the Computer Science Committ~e has been looking into solufions that would alleviate the program build up at the end of each term. by PATH CURRAN Think back to what you were doing on September 19th - · probably: worrying about what classes were going to be like when they started the next day. While you were doing that, the Admissions Office received its first matriculation deposit for the class of 197&. Now, more than a dozen high schoof students have been accepted as freshmen at Union next year. J.A. Shupe, Director of Admissions at Union, explained that these students were accepted under the \Early Bird'' program. Under this plan, students who submit their applications before September I st and have a campus interview receive a decision on their application during September. Not all students who apply under the \Early Bird\ program are accepted at· that time, Mr. Shupe was quick to emphasize. Many are deferred, that is, they are told that their applications will be reviewed in the context of the December \Early Decision\ program or the regular admissions program later in the year. A few are even told that their record as it stands does not meet the criteria for being admitted to Union that year. One of the advantages of the \Early Bird\ program is that \the senior year in high school is less pressured. More time can be devoted to one's work without worrying that what one got on that fifteen-minute quiz in =·············· I THE I i Other Side 5 i of Today 5 I uHandcrafted & : ; ·Imported Items', • ~ 135 JAY ST. 5 • . Tel. 377-0477 • •••••••••••••••• History is going to influence wllat goes on the school's transcript to Union;\ according to Mr. Shupe. A factor in favor of those applying under the \Early Bird\ program is the fact that Union is their first (and probably only) choice. · This obvious enthusiasm for Union is one of the things the Admissions Office is looking for in prospective students. These are the students that have been accepted for' the Class of 1978. Do you recognize any names? David Brezzano, Northville Central, Northville, N.Y. Janet Chapman, Linton H.S., Schenectady, N.Y. Gary Cohen, Harborfields S.H.s:, Centerport, N.Y. Sharon Crean, Cheltenham S.H~S.; Elkins Park, Penn. Elizabeth Holston, Briarcliff H .S., Briarcliff Manor, N.Y. Marcia Hurwitz, Oceanside H.S., Oceanside, N.Y. Maxine· Klein, Spackenkill H.S., Poughkeepsie, N.Y. Susan Lein, Eastchester H.S., Eastchester, N.Y. Elissa Pariser, West Morris- Mendham H.S., Mendham, N.J. Raymond Piascik, Bishop Gibbons H.S., Schenectady, N.Y. Janet Raber, Northern H i g hI and Reg i·o n a I H . S . , Allendale, N.J. Kathy Shaw, Upper Dublin· S.H.S., Maple Glenn, Penn. Betty Small, Tenafly H.S., Tenafly. N .J . Nancy Taub, Albany H.S., Albany, N.Y. Larry Brown then informed the Committee that in order for the LaCrosse Club to play this tall the Activity Req ujrernent # 1 0 has to be waived. If an activity is being offered by the college, a. college program or a college department during the year, it will not be equip.ped. This will be waived for the LaCrosse Club. The Committee on Committees report recommended that the following appoinqnents be made to committees: Comp. Ed., Pamela Howard; Colleg~ Center, Richatd Semble; Student Life, Steward Abramson; \' \ ~ ~· AND WINE DISCOUNT CENTER \Lowest Legal Prices'\ \ ~ ~· II \Free Delivery'\ ~~ -~~ Te.l. 374-9.285 ~~ 1142 STATE ST. t~~ .... ~ ......... ~ LUIGI'S Italian Restaurant BARRETT ST. D16-9744 Elections, Rosemary Rice; Presidential Search, Linda Young. All appointments were approved. Mark Young then moved that Bruce McLaughlin be made chairman of the College Center Committee and that Stewart Abramson be made chairman of the Student Life Committee. The motion was approved. The next item of busin!!ss was the progress of the ad hoc ;committee investigating possible calendar changes. Cathy lanell informed the Committee that numerous calendars have been examined and that the committee is in the process of narrowing down the possibilities by seeking out feedback from the college community. The split three calendar se.ems to be the most feasible alternative to date; however, this is still tentative and the committee is not ready to make a recommendation or proposal at this time. Mark Young then 'brought it to the attention of the Steering Committee that he had been informed that the person who was appointed to the Social Committee as Assistant Chairman does not want the position. Mark said that the Social Committee has also told him that of the four rpembers on the committee who will be returning next year no one is interested in the position of assistant chairman. A motion was made that the Committee on or replacing the assistant chairman; The motion was passed. A question was then entertained about the Freshman obligation to eat their meals at West. Someone complained that there should be an alternative to buying a Saga meal ticket. No one had any definite knowledge about the contract that Saga has with the college. Mitch Weisburg said that he would try to find out about the contract and inform the Steering Committee about the agreement with Saga. Meeting was adjourned at 9:45 p.m . * * Submitted by Catherine lanelli Secretary * * Seniors!! Mechanical and electrical engineers, industrial economics majors. Another company has signed up to recruit. New York Air Brake will be here on Thursday, October 25. Please come to Placement Office and sign up!! Immediately!! * * * * Juniors!! Mechincal and electrical engineers, industrial economics majors. New York Air Brake Company would like to interview you for summer 1974 jobs. Please sign up in Placement Office •. to interview with them on Friday, October 26, 1973!! Come in immediately!! * * * * Committees look into the ,--------~ problem, and perhaps investigate ' the possibilities of replacing a I R·u· DNIC.·K'S, t member of the Social Committee ·t ROOM FOR RENT . Located over Peter Pause Restaurant, 535 Nott St. 3 Beedroonis, living room, bath and kitchen. SIS per week (Heat, water, electricity included). See Peter Pause Proprietors for Info. Levrs· Dave~sMens Shop· ~' 453 State St .. ( (downtown Schenectady) wnv . t t t tHEADQUARTERSt t FOR t I LEE t I DUNGAREE'S I • t 1 308 State St. t t ________ t YOUR UNION I.D. CARD IS WORTH 10% MORE AT THE COMPLETE RECORD & TAPE STORE * * * * * APEX MUSIC KORNER * * * * * CORNER OF STATE & BROADWAY

'i ' ~ ,. ., \ L I' II 1-.- Page6 CONCORDIENSIS, Friday, f?ctober 5, 1973 Interviews There will b~ a meeting of all those interested in Joining the sailing club on Wed. Oct. 10. The meeting will be held at Social Science Lounge at 12:30. If unable to attend, please contact Ruth Morton at 372-'6328. Continued from Page 2 on the entire campus is younger officers. If there was trouble on campus these guys couldn't do shit!\ Concerning the security at West, \It is non-existent. Good examples would be the two or three IO-speeds that have been ripped off not only from the bike racks but from inside the dorm at night.\ Lights are needed over the parking lot and bike rack. A good security system would be the \saf!le system at West as in Fox and Davidson, where to get in the front door you need a door key to one of the rooms. The cost would be very small for locks on two sets of doors.\ Student #2 A suggestion for the entire campus would be to have officers ••move around at night and not guard the faotball field.\ Concerning bicycles, \'there should be a room for bikes with the same lock system as the front doors,\ This would require a room key to get in. •• A room key system would also be best at the front door as in Fox and Davidson.\ Student #3 \I've never seen any security guards at West.\ The biggest security need at West is \lights in the laundry. I could get raped in there and nobody would know.\ Another need at West is locks on the windows. \Anybody could come into my room at night because my windows are always open, since it is at least 90 in the rooms.\ Student #4 The security on Campus needs ••an increase in the size of the force. It's ridiculous for just two guys to be patrolling at night.\ \A new department should be formed so that security doesn't have to worry about unlocking doors, etc.\ Concemint West, the only suggestion was .. a room for bikes which is always locked.\ Student #S The basic need at West is \locks mi the front doors like 'at Fox and Davidson. If not locks, a security guard at the door lik.e Richmond.\ Ideally, \a phone in every room would be best so if there is any trouble you could call ·someone. This is done at a lot of colleges.\ Another basic need for West is locks on all the windows. * * * * INEFFECTIVE The .general consensus, derived from a random sampling of various students, is that the security force here at Union is relatively ineffective. According to the sample, the basic purpose of the security is to check the parking lots, and protect the students from outside theft or harassment. One particular student protested that too much time is spent in handing out parking tickets., rather then protecting the cars from theft. JAKE.· LIPSTE_IN'S LIQUORS Tel. 374-1888 Mon.-Sat. 9 a.m.-9 p.m. 464 State St. Levrs • Dave's' Mens Shop .f53'Sta~~ St. J (downtown Schenectady) 1 One student explained that the purpose of the security force is that \they are meant to be a threat to outside people.\ He also· thinks that their jobs are minimal and, consequently, \the only time you see them is when the .fire alarm goes off.\ Another student remarked, ••They're fun guys to talk to but they don't serve any purpose other then to look official.\ As far as patrolling the dorms is concerned, only North and. Richmond have regular secutiry. According to one girl from Richmond, the security there is sufficient. Although there are guards on duty in several dorms, anyone can apparently enter the buildings. A student who worked as a guard in Richmond last year said that anyone who wants to enter the dorms can, because no one is questioned or stopped. This defeats the purpose of having the guards there in the first place. Students generally agree that there should be more security patrolling during the night on foot, rather then driving around campus in their cars. This wo1,1ld give the students a chance to see them a little more often. As it is now, most students said they very rarely, if ever, see the guards. As the system of the security force stands now, most people do not have much confidence in security, and feel that there is no need for them on cam~us. BLITHER . . In September, 1881, an assas.sin's bullet ended the life of President James Garfield. On that same day, a quiet, obscure man assumed the leadership of America, taking the helm at a confusing time. Chester A. Arthur accepted his responsibilities and brought the country through difficult days. Few people realize that our 21st President was a Union student. The Union College community . can be proud to claim Chester as an alumnus. His tenure was highlighted by his civil service legislation. For the third consecutive year, Delta Chi Fraternity, at 1481 Lenox Road, will ·celebrate President Arthur's birthday. This Friday night, Oct. 5th, at nine o'clock, every student, faculty member and administrator is invited to this important occasion. * * * * All girls who are mteresteo m cheering for basketball this winter: the first practice will be held in the Alumni Gym at 7:30 p.m. on Monday, October 8. Please come prepared to work out! Should you have any questions, or are unable to attend, please call either Barbara at 346- 9220 or Sandy at 370-64ll. * * * *· The Union College Women's Chorus meets every Tuesday from 4 to 5:30 in the Arts Building, Rm. 104-6. Auditions are required. See Irma Hamilton for appointment. * * \' * Married couples needed for Baby Sitting Fulltime-Part time, $16.70 per day. Free Room and Board. Ask for Jean- Tel. 456-01)98. OOPS! photo credi:t John Josephs * * * * Whoever lost a .purse in the library a few days ago sho'Uld contact Bria11 Cook at KA. You must he able to describe the contents. * * * * Field Hockey - Actual game practice Frida:ys at 2:30. Drill practice Mondays and Tuesdays, 2:30. Meet at Gym. Questions call 6498 - Mr. Alison. * * * * BLITHER . ... ' . ~ The Mountebanks will sponsor a film, \New Actors For the Classics\ performed by the City Center Acting Co. Narration is by Stacy Keach. Tuesday, Oct. 9 at 10:00 p.m. in SS016. Admission :is free. * * * * The Graduate School of Public Affairs of the State University of New York at Albany will recruit at Union on Tuesday, November 13, 1973 from 9:30-12:00 a.m. Come sign up for an interview! * * * * Girls Fall Tennis will begin practices as soon as the weather permits. They will be held from 4:00-6:30 p.m. Monday through Thursday. The aim is to play surrounding girls' teams this fall. All interested girls should contact Barbara McDonald, 305 North, 346-9220. * * * * The New World Theatre will present Tennessee Williams' The Glass Menagerie Friday, Saturday, and Sunday, Oct. 5-7; and again, Oct. 12-14 at .8:30p.m. at the upstairs theater, 135 Jay Street. Diane Dougherty, a Niskayuna High School senior, will play Laura, the extremely shy, crippled daughter of Amanda a former southern belle. Ticket reservations may be made by telephoning 370-0477 between 12 and 5 p.m., Monday through Saturday, and after 8 p.m. evenings of performances. The New World Theatre \is above The Other Side of Today, at 135 Jay St., Schenectady. Security Continued from Page 2 . caring man. He is also, unfortunately; the Director of a secuity operation that has failed in its primary task. He knows, I am sure, that the responsibility is his. The problems can be solved through reorganization and a re- evaluation of the methods employed by the force. We hope this takes place within the very immediate future. The report from New York looms larger each and every day. Wanted: Tw() boarders to eat The 1974-75 competition f()r meals at Smith Bouse, $160,00 grants for graduate study abrQad per term. Four home-cooked offered under the Fulbright-Hays dinners a weel, the rest do-it- Act and by foreign governm~nts, yourself. Call 346-9935 and ask universities, and private donors for Betsy. will close shortly. Only about two * * * * weeks remain in which qualified College Special: Ski Aspen or graduate students may apply for Vail for $199.00~ l'ncludes: Round one of the 590 awards which are trip TWA tickets to Denver available. Full grants, which (Depart Dec .. 15), Bus charter to provide round-trip the ski area. 7 Nights transportation, tuition, and accomodations, {Wo-minutes walk maintenance, are available to 33 to all .lifts. Mountain picnic and countries. Fulbright-Hays, Travel college ski race program. Grants are offered to 12 Contact Mrs. Marra at Student countrie~; and private donor Activities. awards to 33 countries. * * * * Candidates must be U.S. All persons from Nassau dtizens at the time of application, County who need either to apply hold a bachelor's degree or its for an absentee ballot or who equivalent by the beginning date wish to register for the November of the grant, have language ability elections: ccmtact Robert commensurate with the demands M()ndschein, 113 South College, of the proposed study projects, (946.9396). and good h·ealth. Prefere11ce is * * * * given to applicants between 20 I f a n yo n e knows t he and 35 years of Me. whereabouts of a blue Schwinn Appli~ation forms and further girls 10-speed Super Sport bicycle information for students currently (serial No. M H027494), please enrolled at Union College may be call 393-9195. There's a reward obtained from the campus and it's really very important. Fulbright Program Adviser, Thank you. · ' Professor William Bristol. He is * * * * located in Room. 214, Social The Social Committee is having Sciences Building, with office an open meeting this Thursday, hours M,T.Th.,. Fri~, 2:30-4 p.m. October ll at 7:00 p.m. in the The deadline for filing Strauss Lounge of the Student applications on this campus is Center. The purpose of the October 15, 1973. meeting is to acquaint people with * * * * the committee, answer questions, All student activities who taave . discuss future preferences for · not fi!Jed out budgets and talent (winter and spring terms), returned them to the S1udent and explain how people can help Activities Office are requested to with concerts. Anyone interested do so as soon as possible. Budget in working with the committee forms may be had in the SA.O. and anyone with ideas for future Any questions, see Mrs. Marra in entertainment should plan to the A.A.Q. or call John Bridger attend this meeting. 7:00 this at 370-0569~ Thursday in the Strauss Lounge. * * * * There will be a Film Workshop meeting at eight o'clock on Monday, October ~ in Humanitres 113. Anyone interested in filmmaking is invited. No experience is necessary. DAR/~ TREET SATURDAY .. SPECIAL . Spaghetti & Meatball Dinner with Salad &. Bread $1.69 REALE'S CAMERA SHOP 2049 VAN VRANKEN Mon.•FJ'i. 6-9 Sat. 8·9 Tel. 377-4~61 NIKON LEICA MINOLTA \Supplies for the Professional & Amateur LENSES • FILM • PAPER HOURS: Mon.-Fri. 11-9, Sat. 11-5 1957 Foster Ave. (offNott) .Tel: 377-4446 ROOM AN~BOARD in e:xehang e for light housekeeping. Call after 8 p.m. Monday, Tllt$day, and Friday. .Phone 377-3838, 1718 Van . · Vrilriken. lr=~===========~?=====~===~====,=~=================~!''''~''''''''''~'':''''~,,,,,,,,,,~,,,,,,,,,,,,,,~,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,~,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,*''~'''~''''''~==,~=,i=~==j==~===~====~======~-g,,,,,!,~====~==========ij- ~tl Maurice B. Graubart & Sons :1~~~;; f:;~; • 1he Jar St Jew•·ler' ~=~ 'For three Generations' •166 Jay St. • For HortestService m And Good Jewelry . . :::::: ;~::: . MAURICE B WALTER :;:;:; ;::~;~~=~~::::;:::;::::~:~:~::~:::::;~:::;:::;:::::::;:;:::::::::::::>.~~=::::~::::::~:~~=?<:::~:::::::::~:::::::::::::::~::f.:~:::::::~:::::::::~::=~==~:::::::~:::::~:~s::~::::::~:=:~~~::::~:~::::~::~:?::;::::::::::;:. CAMPUS BOOK STORE t Gold Keeps Climbing t NOW'S THE TIME TO PUR~HASE YOUR RING r---------~-....-.-- ..... ~ I $500 Off I I · · I .. ..._.. ____________ .._. __ ..,.. During October Dollar Value Days Basic Ring s73.oo now S67 .oo Cust()m Ring $79.oo now s74.oo ( by CHA Under th( coach Pro concern an' tea'm is not1 approach ··cautious 1 instilled rna been lackin: team spirit he has instil ofsuccess tl Team may about this on weekda workouts, ~ run are all season's hal Accordin. Cutts, the vastly impr squad. Th1 juniors Bill Dolan, Sor and Fresh• will .provid with which contend. -I trials, wo· indicated tt have the r successful ran wen a challengi'ng Mark Mir getting intr well. lmr keynote of runners. In their 4 the thincl!l Siena. Nex1 after two w squad wil their tou~ bitterest ri· Union co an xious'l) opportunit~ defeat and school, vic' by ·~E~ Coach C basketball has resigne varsity jot Princeton. almost on pre-season. take on rh and ·recrul \Chool wt 1964-67. It J:calm. of m a move wl Union had The ba program principals 'desire be players. 1 team any saw ample On the cot free lance advantage Tedisco < importa,ntl aggressive Doyles a combined that captu entire stud support o· appreciate part of Un unusual fc a gym at wonder if Dutchmen cow bell become : campus li: is a part Much Union wa

Cross· Country by CHARLES KELbER Under the auspices of new head coach Prof. T. Bkk whose concern and dedication for the tea·m is noteworthy, the team will approach the season with '\cautious optimism.'' Bick has instilled many qualities that have been lacking in past years. If :the team spirit and motivation which he has instilled are any indication of success the 1973 Cross Country Team may well be optimistic about this Fall. Ten miles a day on weekdays, double Saturday workouts, and a 15-mile Sunday run are all in the week of this season's harriers. According to Captain Crawford Cutts, the team appears to be vastly improved over last year's squad. The nucleus of Cutrs, juniors Bill Galarneau and John Dolan, Sophomore Steve Jones, and Freshmen Stan Wiscowski will provide a strong front fi~e with wbich opponents will have to contend. · Last Saturday's time trials, won by Steve Jones indicated that this year's team will have the necessary depth for a successful season. Paul Spence ran well and proved that he is chalfengi'Itg the top five. Senior Mark Mindel showed he was getting into shape by finishing well. Improvement was the · keynote of the trials for all the runners. In their only un0fficiai contest, the thincl;:tds narrowly defeated Siena. N·ext Wednesday afternoon after two weeks of hard work, the squad will encounter· perhaps their toughest opponent and bitterest rival, Hamilton, on the Union course. The team · is anxious·Jy awaiting thi.s opportunity to revenge last year's defeat and with the support of the school, victory seems possible. CONCORDIENSIS, Friday, 'October 5, 1973 Pagel Fraternity Razzle photo by Kevin Scoles Dutchmen Defensive Unit Huddles Art Cigar's Inter-Fraternity Football League began its season for ''73 last Monday with two night .games slated. , Beta won its first game of the season by forfeit over D.U. Beta was ready to play but D. U. just ·didn't show up. On the other end of Daley Field, Sigma Chi was startling defending champion D. Phi. 16-7. Kevin Crawford got the game underway with a 25 yard interception-run. The rest of the Dutchmen take .on Alfred Union's Varsity Football team travels this Saturday to Alfred, N.Y. to meet the mini-powered · Alfred U. Team. The Dutchmen haven't scored on Alfr:ed in three years and after the last game (20• 0) against W.P.l. things are definitely not looking up. Last Saturday Alfred beat R.P.l. 31-0 without much problem so a big letdown will be necessary for not only a Union win but a Union score, The two week layoff could do nothing but help as the Dutchmen have had to literally· start over again on offense .and defense alike. If fortune is with the team, the final offensive statistics could Referees for Inter- ' Fraternity Footba:ll games are ·. · needed. Anyone can sign up with Coach Art Lawrence in the Gym and will be paid $2:00 per game. · · A listing of the rules can be • obtained from Coach Lawrence and a schedule of · all the games. Refs get paid · · and get to watch some . exciting football (razzle- dazzle) at the same time. creep above the negative scale and provide them with a moral victory. Good luck to all the players and coaches alike. You're going to need it. ;:r;.e: = by_SMILEY ln 1969, the New York Mets arose from the depths of the National League to win 100 games, finish first in their division and win the World Championship. There then passed three years in which the Miracle- makers could manage only 83 wins in each; the result being three consecutive third place finishes. With this in mind, one mus~ be amazed that by winning their 1 82nd game of the season on ·October lst, the Mets elinqhed their second N.L. East crown. half dragged out with D. Phi threatening as time ran out. In the second .half, the Sig defense collected two safeties and two interceptions by Jeff White. Randy Ruschak flipped a 15 yarder to .Bart Mercer for 6 mc>re points to the final Sig score. D. Phi scored after a long cross-field pass from Joe Giovannone to John DeStefano went out of bounds at the 3. From there, DeStefano took another pass and wriggled into the end zone for the score. The extra point was good, and the score stood for the rest of the game. Two out of the four gam.es scheduled for Tuesday were eitller rained out or forfeited. K.A. forfeited to D. Chi, and A.D. Phi and the Independents had a mutual agreement to play later. Meanwhile, Phi Sigma Kappa and Sigtna Phi elected to ban the R:u.zle Dazzle play in the rain and suffered through dropped passes and poor footing to a 6-0 Sig Phi win by default. The rain didn't stop Chi Psi however as they trampled Fiji, 42- 2. Brian Tucker scored 2 TO's • one on an interception and the other on a pass. Scott Burns and Marty Rucco had one TD apiece, Rucco's a 40 yard strike from Joel Fisher. Tucker and Les Kernan had two interceptions apiece and Jeff Hirst had one as the \Chipsy\ defense smothered Phi Gamma Delta. Fiji scored its only points on a safety to avert the shutout. ·In future games, the winning teams will be responsible for making a resume of the game including T.D.'s, T.D. passes, interceptions, etc. and sliding them under the Concordy Pffice's door, third floor Carnegie, anytime. Information on ~he losing team should al~o be inch,1ded. M ir ac le II ::;;o::::;;;; c====::::J::::r::r::::::t: :::::::::::::~c.:: :::::::::n::::a the regulars, who the Mets then had, had. their best years: Cleon Jones hit .340, Tom Seaver won 25 games, Art Shamsky hit .300, etc. In 1973, the Mets won with their regulars experiencing off years: Cleon Jones was mired around .250 most of ~he year, Rusty Staub hit only 15 home runs,. Jon Matlack stood 3-10 at one point and Jerry Koosman 8- 14. The injuries p.iled up .early and brought many to write off the Mets early in the year. It is now on to Cincinnati ' where the powerful Reds are waiting to see if the Mets are for . real. Position for position, the Reds would seem to be out of the Met's league. Howevet, pitching- wise the Mets rate the edge and if the bats of the Reds are silenced it could very well be on to th; World Series and visions of '69. e.s. - The Mets in 4. ~soccer by LEE RIMSKY A Player's View How can one explain this? The Pirates and the Cubs, , rated the top choices in the divisioa, never consistently showed the form expected of them. For the Pirates, a lack of pitching and defense proved to be the downfall, while the ·Cubs missed a consistent attack and the usually stellar performances of Ferguson Jenkins. The Montreal Expos and the St. Louis Cardinals proved to be the surprises of the division as they took advantage of the mediocrity of their eastern Foes to cha.lJenge until the last day of the season. In reality, neither really had !he '\horses\ to put on an all out drive at the end. One must not forget the Phillies, who made it tough f 0r all the Eastern contenders and shook off their perermiel role of patsies. A number of factors, finally turned a so-far disastrous sumtner into a happy one for Met fans. Down the stretch, the walking wounded returned to duty and played at top form. Jones hit 6 home runs and drove in 14 mns in the last 10 games of the season. Rusty Staub once again provided clutch hitting to the Met's attack, Bud Harrelson carne back frpm assorted injuries 'to\hlt .'260 'and play a spectacular shortshop. Combine this with the steady hitting of Felix Millan and the emergence of Wayne Garrett and John Milner as power threats and the hitting once again existed. If you read my last article you~ll know that I went way out on a ljmb by saying that this year's Union soccer team was going to have a great season. And Wednesday's 1-1 tie with Rochester will in no way cause me to eat crow. In fact, I even think that the game supports my prediction. Rochester was a tough soccer team. They made Jew mistake~. hand led the ball well, and hmtled throughout\ the game. Their record was 3-0, having heutcn Alfred, Syracuse, and Hamilton. And just recently they were ranked one of the top fifteen teams in :'~lew York State. Enough said? by ~EVIN CRAWFORD Coach Gary Walters, varsity hasketball coach for three years, has resigned to take the assistant varsity job at his alma mater, Princeton. In a move that comes almost on the eve of the 73-74 pre-season, Coach Walters will takt? on the duties of chief scout and -recruiter at the Ivy League \Chool where he starred from 1964-67. It marks a move into the Fealm. of major college basketball: a move which his great record at Union had forecasted. The basis of his basketball program is anchored on the pri~cipals of character, pride and destre both in coaches and players. Anyone watching the team any of the last three years saw ample evidence of all three. On the court, Walters theory of a free lance offense, which took advantage of the talents of a Tedisco or. Bacher and more importa.ntly, a hustling and aggressive defense in which the Doyles and Walkers excelled, combined to produce a winner that captured the attention of the entire student body of Union. The support of the student body was appreciated by Walters as a big part of Union•s success. It was not unusual for someone walking into a gym at a Union away game to wonder if he indeed wasn't on the Dutchmen's home grounds. The cow bell and \silent cheer\ have hecome as integral a part of campus life as the Nott Memorial is a part of the campus itself. Much of his success here at Union was· due to the amount of rlSABEiu·s - l F & H Pharmacy 527 UNION ST. Phone 370-1.300 extra effort he put into coaching and scouting. It was often -the case that a Union defender knew what the opponent was going to do before he himself did. It was this same extra effort that he demanded atJ.d got from his players that made the difference 1 n many games. In the coming year. it is certain that Coach Walters will be missed hoth for J:iis coaching and by those who carne in contact with him in his three years. Taking over for Coach Walters will be former frosh coach BiH Scanlon, a man whose previous record and dedication assures Union of continued excellence in coaching. * ·* * * The Union LaCrosse Club opened ifs season with a convincing II to 4 win over Capital District rival R. P. I. The attack was led by senior club president Dennis Walker, with 4 goals and 1 assist. Defensive captain Dave Hochschartner played his typical excellent game by not allowing his man to score. During the latter part of the game, Hock traded his defense stick for a tniddie stick and breezed past two R.P.I. defenders for a score. Next game: vs. Williams. Saturday, Oct. 6 at I :00 p.m. on library Field. f~TamT1 . Bianc.hi' s ~ u Banquet Facilities'~ Available Free to ~ X College Groups\ 1135 Barrett And then there were the Mets. As late as August 30, the amazing ones were dead last. At one point they stood 13 full games under the .500 1evel. Their hitting was non-existent and their usually reliable bullpen was slumping badly. Throughout the summer, Manager Yogi Berra's head was on the chopping block. Then, suddenly the Mets began to play good baseball, something that no team in the division was doing. From 13 games under .500, the Mets rose to 3 games over .500 and first place. If the 1969 season was a miracle, then the 1973 season was even more miraculous. In 1969, Moffet's Liquors 1505 VanVranken Mon.-Sat. 9:30-9:00 346-0392 Join Our Wine Tasters Club Free. I The strong point of the team in the end was their pitching staff, which ranks at the top of the \;ational League. Tom Seaver won just 19 games, but managed to nail down ERA and stri~eout honors in the league. Jon Matlack rebounded from a fractured skutl to win ll of his last l7 decisions. while Jerry Koosmah won 6 of his last 7 0utings. George Stone. who came to the Mets with Millan, won 12 of his 15 decisions for the season. Tug McGraw rebounded from at: horrendous slump to record 25 saves and 5 wins mostly over the last month of the se·ason. George's Music Store 508 State St. Schenectady Tel. 374-5921 College Discount - ... ' -= L, mon scored first on a pen~lity !->hot by. Sandy Wilder in the middle of the first hal{ The teams stalemated after that until Rochester launched a flurry of shots with twenty minutes left in the game and managed to get one past goalie John Busterud. Both Husterud and Wilder had outstanding games, along with halfback Doug Moran and fullback Bob Grossman. ,_ \\\' ..... ~ ~ .h. .... ~ ::Griubarf.& -sons~ c May run small ads, ( ~ but they have 1 b_ig v,alues. < ~ CtA¥> : ~ Schenec~~J;.s famous ~ § diamond shop, ( ~ (for three generations) < 166 Jay St. s. ~YUATES~ . !Q>~ --- ._,..-- .• \OCTOBER DOLLAR VALUE SPECIAL\ 11 RECYCLED HARDCOVERS: $1.98 EA. Popular Fiction and Non Fiction CAMPUS BOOK STORE - - ---- ----- I I I~ I I ., ,, I I !i

:\.1 iJi. ,, Page8 CONCORDIENS/S, Friday, October 5, 1973 Hoop Coach Walters Goes to Princeton photo by Ed Schultz Former Coach Gary Walters congratulates new Head Coach William Scanlon. by DON KRONE Gary Walters outgrew the Union basketbatl program and had to travel to Princetbn, N.J. in search of a proper fitting. On September 26 Walters unexpectedly resigned as head coach of the hoop squad to take a position at h-is alma mater. It was made official the following day at a press conference in the Block U Room of Alumni Gym. Bill Scanlon, the successful Dutchmen freshmen coach who compiled a 39-10 mark. in three years with seasons of 13-3, 10-6 and 16·1 last winter, was_named the official replacement, pending approval of the Board of Trustees. Scanlon, 29, graduated in\ 1966 from Springfield College where he was a member of the basketball team for three years: After earning a . master's degree at Springfield. he served as director of athletics and a three-sport coach at Holyoke, Mass. . Community College and .then joined the Union staff in 1970. . Walters, an •extremely well- liked personality on campus, became the winningest coach in Union history in his short three year stint. Compiling records of 18-3, 19-3 and 16 .. 7 for an overall mark of 53-13 (.803) the Princeton grad surpassed the . 785 (52-16) mark of F. Dawson fram 1912-17. \Our game will be pretty ~imilar to the one we've played for the last three years,\ Scanlon said at the press conference. He added, \Our coaching methods are very similar and the program will not cjlange that much.\ The Rexford native credited former Union coach Chris Schmid with leaving the basketball program in a healthy state and Walters for maintaining the condition. \Basically we'll be the same offensively and defensively. We lost our entire front Court (Geoff Walker, Mike Doyle, a·pd To•m Bacher) and they wiil be sorely missed, but we have a fine group of freshmen,\ Scanlon stated. WalteFs' resignat.ion leaves the basketball staff ane short. Chuck Le.onelli, i}n I.!Iisa•laried assistant for the past three years, is expected ta return, but Scanlon ami athletic director Bruce Allison must seek a freshmen coach. \The position will be filled pend.ing authorization from the administr:ttian. H we can't find someone fulltime, we may have to go far a part~time replacement,\ Allison projected. For Walters the move is a step up the ladder on what seems to be his search for a major college head coaching position. _ \I am leaving a fipe position here.\ Walters emphasized. ''We have a good sound program here, but the opportunity at Princeton was just too promising to turn down.\ if _gou've llliltriculilt~d' at union-for a·· ear OP more, -oo proba l_g knold of us. nof, then .!JDU ou ht- to _get aquatnt~d •th tL2 best hi-fi 5toPe in folUn. this week, for instance: AA -92.E exact sarne specs as the M-91E $11IE ~' '-. j);JJo __..... -1-he now- famous rno/LJAA R£& • ..t6(l. 0/JLY: $36.8)$ ALTEC model 70\-- receivc;~..- 12 wa+l-s r.ms. pe.- cha>'l'lel sf a+ all {t-eq_uellcies fM Si?<l5i1i\li}y OVl~ 2..5\pV. -lt>~?'lf) needless +o salJ, +here i.s hard~ room in +his or~ +he drop we're.. ad +a +ell ~ou w~ and how we bes+. buf when chance, ~au get a ( ahd. hear) where. wha+ we can do -For _you. ..J.hahk you. - _you can se.e and Cr-Oz blank ca.sse-l+es C-60 ~1-92 each Ce;J: ~.2.99 C-90 $2.35'~- . ~: $;:3.74 llr..\2 lok. o~....!l ,. \\' ster~o I, -'./ sound .. (l£2 iaY st.) The resignation of Tiger assistant Butch van Breda Kolff several weeks ago left the crucial opening. Walters' fcmtler high school coach Pete: Cartil, the current Princeton coach, asked him to return to the Ivy Le~gue institution. . Walters attended Reading High School where he played under Carril for three years and was an All-State selection. At Princeton,, he was. a starter at guard for three years from 1964- 67, and played on the 1965 NCAA semi-final tournament team with prese.nt New York Knicks star Bill Bradley. · Walters averaged 8.3 points and 5.5 assists per game, dt.uing his collegiate career, and was a standout defensive player as was evident from his coaching tactics. He gained All-Ivy honors as a junior and senior .. After graduating fN>ril Princeton in 1966, Walters became freshman basketball coach at Lehigh for one year and then moved to a similar position at Dartmouth. He was the head coach at Middlebury for the 1969- 70 season before coming here. Reflecting on his time spent at Union, Walters said, \The most difficult thing about moving is· leaving sorrte quality relationsnips I've developed with people on campus and in the community.'~ '.'1 felt that if I stayed it would he like experiencing one year for the fourth time. It's a period of growth and development for me. I have to see if I can make it in the big time. The exposure to major college basketball will help me determine if I can make it,\ Walters added. Cecil Walker of the Sch.enectady Gazette best summarized Walters' accomplishments. \He combined the talent of his players with a pressure defense approach to the game that carried the I 970-71 team to an 18-.3 record, winningest at the school. Victories over Siena and Albany State en route to the Capital District Tournament championship highlighted Union's first winning season in seven years and provided the initial spar for the school's rocket into eastern small college cage prominence. As Union's basketball fortunes soared, so did its following. The throngs that attended games . forced the school to expand the capacity of Memorial Fieldhouse. The team's popularity peaked in the 1971-72 campaign when it went 19-3, including 15 straight. A crowd estimated at 4,000 attended the final home game against Hamilton to see Jim Tedisco make his Schenectady career finale.\ Despite the loss of Tedisco's All-American presence, Walters' charges went 16-7 last season. Gary Walters started a basketball tradition that activated the student body and more than anything else began to create a sense of college community. Bill Scanlon will assume a very difficult task on November I when practice starts. Howev·er, Walters has confidence in Scanlon's ability to handle the situation. \If he's not ready to be a head coach, I don't know who is. -, Levrs Dave's· Mens. Shop ..,3 State St. (downtown~Stbenectady) Vol. 1 With WRU College Cente. Gym Hall is It -- which cou · Dean of Studt into the sam office of the The problem 1 organizatio1 Maintenance ' · poor commur department it Office of Dea: OriginaHy, •. the idea of ut according to ~ Director of PI to provide a Moore and ;.ecretary on tl hall. The nort office for hou of this, accon Pirector of . Facilities Ope (which also ir housekeepers). too much mo1 reduced plan i i~ being pla1 asked how planning stage he replied th< but referred t Welsh (Dire , Plant). Howe1 that the op . completed f01 fall or by Chi Dean Sm · looking forw, assistant in , with him communicatio of Dean of St waiting to Maintenance Mr. Moore' meantime, \L1 hands in the waiting for so: Taking Mr ~peak with ~ reporter w minutes, onl) Mr. Mills wa: ·. · After meet in reviewed the · ~aid, \The ne · cheaper way , or only half tl Mr. Moore's that the first ~ummer was estimate last r as well. Meanwhile. and noth accomplished · t·here is mo planning. \W. on many othe ~tarted and getting done time on thh

fowuJed.tlt Union Collq~ m 1811 Vol. 103, No. 3 Friday, October 12, 1973 20 cents Students Pol·led On Maintenance Functions photo by Hershel Raft Site of old W.RUC Studios. The Use Of Old w·RUC With WRl.k movmg to the College Center in Carnegie, Old Gym Hall is left with extra space -- which could bring Assistant Dean of Students, LeRoy Moore into the same building as the offiqe of the Dean of Students. The problem seems to be one of organization within the Maintenance department due to · poor communication within the department itself and with the Office of Dean of Students. said, \Sometime this week, I'll be getting in contact with Mr. Smith and work this thing out.\ Later in the conversation Mr. Mills said, \I don't really know how much of a hurry Mr. Smith is in.\ Immediately following the interview I discovered from Dean Smith that he had received a phone call from the Assistant Director of the Physical Plant. Essentiaily nothing had been done at the time I spoke to Mr. Mills. The problem is obviously in the organization of the Physical Plant and the Business Office, in that no one knows what the other's function is in this operation. The Business Office sent this reporter to Mr-. Welsh, who referred nie to the office of Mr. Mills. Dean Smith, in the meantime, has been waiting for Lontmued on l'age !> By HARRIET·KAPLAN When asked about Maintenance at Union, an administrator commented: \The Maintenance Staff is underworked,. unorg;lnized, and poorly managed.\ An aware senior, familiar with the functions of Union, expressed a similar opinion. He felt that the maintenance at Union was inadequate because the staff is \underpayed underworked, and understaffed.\ He did not, however, neglect to mention the outstanding job that Dick Mills has been doing, Another student complained that Maintenance was not doing a good enough job. He cited an example where lights were broken in Fox House two years ago and still have not been replaced. A freshman, when asked his opinion on Maintenance, seemed a little surprised at the question, shrugged his shoulders, and explained that \they are doing a fairly good job. I never see them but I know the bathrooms and hall' garbage are always cleaned up.\ Another freshman disagreed; .. They aren't doing a good job at all! They don't clean up the halls well enough and do a minimal job in washing the floors.\ .. He mentioned that his fourth-floor bathroom is full of mildew and has a peeled ceiling. \There should,\ he added, \be some kind of antiseptic spray available in each bathroom.\ One cbed said fhat the bathroom appearance ••teft much Originally, over the summer, the idea of utilizing old WRUC. according to Mr. Mills (Assistant Director of Physical Plant), \was to provide an office for Mr. Moore and an office for his :-.ecretary on the south side of the hall. The north side would be an office for housing.\ The estimate of this, according to Mr. Usher. l)irector of Business and Facilities Operations, was $2,000 (which also included a room for housekeepers), and consequently too much money. Usher said, \A reduced plan for only Mr. Moore i~ being planned now.\ When asked how far along in the Usher Speaks On Union Maintenance . planning stage this operation was, he replied that he didn't know, but referred this reporter to Mr. Welsh (Director of Physical Plant). However, he did mention that the operation would be completed for Mr. Moore \this fall or by Christmas at least.\ Dean Smith is obviously looking forward to having his .. m;~istant in the same building . With him to tighten communication within the office of Dean of Students. He has been waiting to hear word from Maintenance on an estimate for Mr. Moore's office. In the meantime. \LeRoy'l> sitting on his hands in the Plllcement Office w~iting for something to happen.\ faking Mr. Usher's advice to ~peak with Mr. Welsh left this reporter wa1tmg forty-five mmutes, only to find out only Mr. Mills was to be spoken with. After meeting Mr. Mills, he re~iewed the original plan and ~a1d, \The next step is to find a cheaper way to do this operation or only half the operation for just Mr. Moore's office.\ He asserted that the first estimate over this ~u~mer was too high and the estimate last reached was too high as well. Meanwhile, the summer is over and nothing has been •· accomplished. Mills felt that now · !·here is more time fot better planning. \We have been working . on many other things since school ~.tar~ed and now that they are ~ettmg done we can spend more hme on this project.\ He also Q. What is the exact function of Maintenanee on this campus? A: To maintain the physical plant. Q: What is your ex:act position in relation to maintaining the physical plant? A: Organizationally the physical plant department comes under my -office. It is broken down into two main areas, and that is the maintenance and operation of what is known as auxiliary enterprises, which are all the dormitories, dining halls, things other than academic and administrative office buildings, and that is.. the other main breakdown. Within the physical plant department itself it is organized into. five basic sections, that break the Work apart functionally. One section is the strtJctural section; this has to do with the maintaining of structures such as the ~:oof and painting, that kind of thing. In that section are the masons, the painters, the carpenters, the furniture repairmen, and those kinds of jobs. The next would be the electric and control section, this has to do with all the electrical systems, and the heating and control systems. The third section is what we cafl the mechanical section. This has to do with all the steam lines, the heating ~ystems, the boiler plant, the plumbing, and the automotive repair. The fourth section is the grounds section. This has to do with taking care of all the outside grounds; Then we have what we call a building services section. That has to do with all the maids, the janitors and a group of men we call the ••genera-l maintainers\ who are really minor repairmen, a handy-man type of repairman - small things when you don't need a fully-qualified mechanic to come in and do it. Like putting in a window or changing a hinge. Then there are also truckdrivers- laborers who either drive trucks or dig ditches, manual labor. Well those are the five basic operating units within the Maintenance department td handle those two major functional ·areas of the campus. Now there is an -office group that handles the payrolls and purchase orders and the head of the physic~! plant is the Director of Physical Plant and there is an Assistant Director of Physical Plant who is more involved in the planning of work Continued on Page 4 Perky Francis Harold L. Usher. Director of Maintenance at Union College. to be desired,\ partly due to the other girls on her floor but also to the Maintenance Staff. No curtains had been put up in her poorly-drained shower despite repeated effmts on the part of her. Resident Advisor. She also felt that when living with so many other people, additional antiseptic should be sprayed in the bathroom to .guard against germs, athlete•s foot and other- contracted diseases. (Sophomore) \They do a decent job, but nothing spectacular. The quality of the work is only fair and the q uanity is only minimal.\ (Sophomore) \It would be very east to condemn the Maintenance Departinent; often it seems that really essential tasks - lighting, plumbing, are left undone. But any condemnation must come with knowledge of the problems that the department faces. The small staff has a large number of responsibilities and sometimes things just have to wait to get done. The problem appears to be a lack of personnel rather than low productivity.\ (Freshman) \I didn't know there was a Maintenance Department!\ :(Senior) ~·t think Dick Mills, Assistant Director of the Physical Plant, is cme of the most capable and efficient people on campus. He is amazingly fair and one hell of a good person. When something does get done in Maintenance, he's usually behind it. Otherwise, with three or four exceptions, none of the foremen are working up to their capacity. If competent foremen were put in charge, things would definitely get done. The whole operation is sloppy because of widespread individual incompetency.\ (Junior) \They're cooperative, but there are so many different aspects of Maintenance - the grounds crew,. electricity, plumbing, etc. Maintenance is a rounded-off term for a highly varied task.\ \Some of the Maintenance men are more efficient than others. Generally, the management is very good, but there are some weak links which detract from the efficiency of the total operation. The weak links know who they are.\ (Sophomore) •'This year I've been very disillusioned with what they've done at this particular house - like locking the room downstairs where our bicycles were stored and capping the shower instead of fixing it. Generally they get their job done, but not in the most efficient manner.\ (Sophomore) \It seems that there are not enough maintenance men. Major type projects which look impressive have a way of getting accomplished, but minor things that make life on campus more livable are neglected. \A lot of things that Maintenance does are inscrutable, to say the least Witness the Great Urinal Scandal of last winter.\ (Freshman) ''I have no personal gripes, hoVJever it's their lack of action which appears to be a problem. I know of at least one ; window in Fox that has been ' cracked since the students arrived. Other windows are simply 'boarded. More than one complaint has been filed a,bout. these situations. Anyway, considering the size of the College, they probably do an O.K. job.\ (Senior) \The calibre of their work is generally good, but there are serious delays in the work orders. This is because they have so many different people doing different tasks. For instance, one man may measure the window, another cut the glass, and another put in the new glass. There are simply too many steps involved in getting the work done.\ (Sophomore) •'They are very, very, very slow. I had to wait one week to get paint for my room, and I had to pester them every day. Also, there's a broken outlet which hasn't been fixed in my room. In general, they seem pretty lackadaisical.\ Continued on Page 4 Analysis by AL REISCH The Union College Maintenance operation is one of the most complex bureaucracies any of us has come across in recent months. lt is characterized by a ·lack of communication between the parts of the system and a lack of general communication between the Maintenance department and other agencies of the College. The director of Business Operations for the College is Harold Usher. There are many stories of his mishandling .of contracts and the like. We refer you to the article in thi~ issue by Don Krone for one such example. Mr. Usher is a man who is obviously dedicated, in that he feels a very real concern for the College. For some reason ·his efforts often seem to go astray. We have been trying for quite a while to find the reason for this, and it wasn't until we viewed his job in relation to the entire maintenance picture that we arrived at what we feel to be a viable answer. He is strangled by a system that suffers from mismanagement and lack of coordination between its component parts. Of course, Mr. Usher himself is responsible for much of the organization of which we speak, but let us hold this in abeyance until later on. Mr. Welch is second in command to Usher. We intended to interview him in the course of this investigation. When we approached him he said that he could not answer any of our 4 uestions until we had first cleared the list of questions with his superior. This we did (after overcoming the initial shock of Welch's statement). Unfortunately, the time lag involved in such a process prevented our interviewing him in time to have the information included in this analysis. __ Every desert has its oasis and the Maintenance department has Dick Mills. Mills is the one man in the entire structure who would ~tand behind his assertions and continually takes the responsibility for the things tllat have obviously gone wrong. The one problem is that we don't really believe that these things a.re Continued on Page 5

Page2 CONCORlJfENS/S, Friday, October 12, 1973 Are You Conscious? Black lnformati.on Center This was going to be the year()[ the big detente, remember? Those wonderful TV meetinJrs at Peking and Moscow, a time of brotherhood. Remember watchin!; \our man,\ elected in a mandate from the people in '72, do those peaceloving-compassionate-?:reat-H'Or!dun!f~·ing things? Remember? By PHYLLIS JAMES l\hree years ago there existed a Bla.ck tibra.ry. Occupyin.g Davidson's north wing, originally the first Black House, is the I >1\vid son Co-Op. The Black I it> ran was moved to Stoller Hall. • This proved to be un~uccessful; space was limited And now, does it really matter whose h food is shed: and there were unsatisfactory jew, arab, muslim, christian. russian? ~tudy conditions. The Library's Does it matter that those cities we allread about when we were kids,\Biaqk Information Center\ will nazareth, riberius, copernium, Jerusalem now take up permanent residence · · fi , 'l .r. · h b · · · ? at Hickok House, the black dorm. me JUSt a. e~-1- m1 es 1 rom t. e ombmgs. r-h hi t h d ed · · · · ere are roug y wo . un r . · What about the victims in Damascus? voh.unes on hand to be used for Why? resource purposes, to give Can't we remember graduate information to minority those times qfpeace, and learn from those senseless times of war? ~tudehts, and to give scho'larship felf()wship information to the ~tudents a·.t Union and the community. Stephen. Lewis, head of this pr()ject says: ··we are hoping to hui ld a repetoire of graduate catahgues pertaining to minority ~tudents, helpful to juniors and ~en iors iJt the entire college and outside community. Op'inion \The B.S. A information center provides a collection of books. lllaga7i.nes, newspa~.ers and reriodicals which serves as a re~ervoir of relevant hlack material and information .. \ Some of the materials that~ will he available are \Ebony \Jet \New York Times'' and \Wall Street Journal.\ Mr. Lewis goes on to say, \Too often the tex-tbooks and history books used in the classtoom prese.nt a limited \ iew of the Black's place in history. The end resul.t is mis- education · or underedutation. Literature that K<;:vin Willis and I have selected offers a more accurate and complete picture of the Black man's historical position. It is my hope that not only wHI Black students make use of this valuable source of irtforml:}tion, but the entire campus and the community will ~hare in the knowledge which the information center has to offer.\ Certainly every one should ~now about the black man\ historicl;l'l position, and this Information Center wlH prove <henefitial to .rna;ny pe.op)e. Ihomas Wyatts has commented nn how he feels about t.he coming of tne information ceRter. ''When .l was a senim in high sch.ool· working for the Blac.k Sttident t Inion's paper, I interviewed a orother who said 'We are looking f0r truth. Too many history hooks (used in Philade.lphia ~chools) are written by pe()ple who often know not~·ing of the black. experience.' He .hopes the information center provides a perspective of American l'ife cliffe.rent from that presented in the Union College classroom. There is a bright and useful future ahead for the lnformation Center. Let's hope that. it is put to full use by b'laek and white ~tudents alike. Much work has gone into installing 1:l library wstem that will be run bv :-tudents, a library system that wiil give Black information to anyone interested in finding out about the true Black Experience. Student Affairs photo by Hershel Raff These students are among many Union students and faculty who participated in the Red Cross Blood Drive held in the Alumni Gym on Oct. 9 and 10. Committees· All students who are currently members of any College, Faculty, or Student Committees are urged · to contact their chairmen as soon as possible. Some committees have already met this fall without full student representation; other committees will not meet regularly at all if their members display no interest. Below is a complete listing of the various committees- their chairmen and where they may be found - as released from the Office of the Provost, 28 September 1973. locate your chairman, and find out when your committee will meet. The complete list of committee members' released by the Provost may be referenced in the Student Activities Office at any time; Mrs. Marra has a copy. COLLEGE COMMITTEES Academic Opportunity, Bick. Mathematics, 6246 Admissions, Kilburn, English, 6207 Athletics, Kershner, Economics, 6218 Budget and Priorities. chairman to be elected, Allison. Klernm, Martin, Nichols, Schick, Shanebrook, Stineback, Thimm ·Comprehensive Education, Thomas, French, 6213 Computer Science, .T. Schwarz, Computer SCience, 6274 Conduct, Gillette, Mathematics, 6246 Curricular Affairs, Fairchild, Mathematics, 6246 Development, Hunt ley, Psychology, 6257 Educationa.l Innovation, Zimmerman, Civil Engineering, 6262· Enrivonment, Tobiessen, Biology, 6245 Graduate Studies, Griesinger, Industrial Administration, 6236 Liaison and Governance, Board, Political Science, 6224 Library, Hansen, History, 6222 Special Events: Honorary Degrees, Evans, Librarian, 6278 Lectures, Concerts, and Films, La Barba, library, 6278 Religious Activities, Calabria, Psychology, 6257 Student Aid, Aubrey, Mechanical Engineering, 6264 CONCORDJENSIS founded at Union Colleee in 1877 Concordiensis is published every Friday during the school year except during examination and vacation periods by the student body of Union College. Schenectady. N.Y. National Advertisinl! Representative: National Educational Advertising Service. Inc .. NYC. Editorial office. Old Oym Hall, !Inion College. Puolication office. The .Jewish W ol'ld Publicatiom. 771 State Street. Schenectady. New York. 12307 (.146-2356). Entered in the Schencctad\ pmt office a~ Second Clas~ Mail Matter. Suhscription rate: 20 ccnb a c:opv. II dollars a vear delivered anvwhete 111 the I 'nitcd State,. . . · DcHdline fnr all cop1. \'-h1ch rm1st he IYJ>E[) .1\f\;1) DOUB!I' Sf'ACTD. ~~ 7 r.rn on ·luc,dal ''' the foncordiensi~ olfi<..:L·. located third lloor Carneeie I he office rhonL\ numher '' .<711-nl <;~. nm the ntltcc ,, JtJ ·u,c onh nn \-londa1 ,Jnd I hur,dal IH~ht-. l-OR t\1 f F.Dil ORI·\1 \1,\ f f f K :-. ( \ l I I HI I Ill I 0 R-ll\.('111 H \I 1711-n 12h. I OR I\.Hll<'vll\110\ C!\11 \<1f{S '..1/\RJ<-\ I'\ !HI· Sll 1 0Ei\1 ,\Cfl\'llli\OHJCI \f 1\11-idll\ . ,. 'ROB MONDSCHEIN This. st~tement is a trial balloon to the students who now compose Union College. It is my idea on how Union can develop, in one aspect~ what has become known as ... the sense of community;\ a ~ens.e of community which I unders.tand to mean the creation of bonds between students, faculty, administration. The crea1i()n of more than an educational institution but of a group of people having an experience with one another as well as gaining a superior· educa:t.ion. R UrtJinating in my mind how this ce>uld be accomplished I was totally puzzled. Just by proclaiming in article after article in the newspaper that we need a ~ense of community would not cau:,;e anything to change. People would a11 say yes, that would really he excellent and then they ~ continue on as things have. There must be repeated iniatives made by students, faculty, adm.inistration on themselves in order for some physical change to occllr. More than catch -phrases must be made; realistic or even idealistic goals must be made and action taken before this concept of community can be acc()mplished, Possibly having the members of the college just trying to form goals and plans to bring a !!>ense t>f community to the college • • •••• FACULTY COMMITTEES AdvisorJ< Committee on Salary, Promotion and Tenure, Russ. Elect rica! Engineering. 6273 F~»reign Students, Bristol, History, 6221 Honors and Fell~wships, C. Swartz. Physics, 6254 Standing of Students, Hutzel, Biology, 6242 St ully Abroad, Klemm, German, 6211 STUDENT COMMITTEES C~llege Center Committee, Bruce M cLaughHn, 315. · Davi<lson. 346-9422 Committe~ on Committeils, Mark Young, l I 7 Davidson. 346- 9126 Elections Committee, Harrv lcs~i n. J 54 Davidson. 370-6560 S()cial Committee, Peggy Mille-r. 699 Huron Street. 370- 241JJ Student tife Committee, :-. tc>~<:tr:t A hra mson, 351 Fox. 346- \)t'>IJ2 ] a-x tfommittee, John Bridger. I 1.2 Park Place:- 370c0569 l J»W&lrd Bound. Sharr. Stoller ILdl. 616~ will in fact bring a sense of community to the co II e ge. Not a single person I know is a.pathetic. Everyone is interested in their own personal needs of life: we all have our own patterns of behavior, our own perspectives on life. ln certain areas ·that :-ociety labels as beneficial to the community, many do not take part. But this is not because people are apathetic, not because people do not care. They do not participate because they have not incorporated that pattern of behavior i·nto their lives. lniatives are needed that bring people into the wider scheme rather than ask them to participate; that break down older behavior patterns and let new ones develop. These iniatives made by students on !>tudents, faculty on faculty, administrators on administrators . I . and all on one another will be the only way the sense of community will be developed. What are these initiatives? I have no idea, but they must be general so that bonds will be thrown between many different people. They ca.nnot be secular, for this will not form community hut factional cliques. Cliques would be more divisive to the larger community than if nothing was done to begin with. I myself have come up with one idea that deals with a change in how student government is run on campus. We are a small college and even though we are small we have a relatively large student governmental bureaucracy. Though this government allows for large mnnbers to participate in its various elective posts and committees. the representational ~ystem by ·its very nature gives powe.r to a few and takes it away from the mass. Just as an experiment I. feel that Union !-.hould try to go back to a New England town meeting form of government. lf for no other · reason than to give a sort of excitement of experimentation to the college and to develop more interest in the operation of the !-.tudent government. But I feel. this more democratic form of government, as well as being a !-.incerely viable form of government for U nioil, will bring all members of the college into ·active engagement and con~ern for the college on a whoJe. I don•t believe it will be .a novel experience that will wear off in time, for this form of government would be experienced by relatively few anywhere else but on campus and would continue to be an involving activity. This participation of the whole -college in running the college would I believe be one facter m developing a true sense of community. This is just one idea that I hope will receive some thinking and ~orne feedback. To repeat, this is just an idea made by me and if it is rejected. hopefully more ideas will be made by many others. Union College will be mote than buildings and people but will be a whole co·mmlinity working together and accomplishing goals. Editor in Chief.. .............................................. AJ. Reisch Managing Editors ..................................... Rita Morandi Dave Strom ·, News Editor ............................................... Geoff Taylor Features Editor ..................................... PhyHis Edelman Sports Editor ........................................ , ..... Bart Mercer Investigative Editor ...................................... Don Krone · Business Man.ager. ..................................... Alan· Gnessin National Ads ................................................ Steve Kelly Photography Editors .................................. Bill Erichsen Les Kernan Jeff Weilberg Cory Editor. ............................................... Phil Alcabes Subscription~ ......................................... Mi-ke Bernstein STAFF: Celeste Lirid~ey, Dotsie Whitne\'. Karen Sokoloff. Linda Mackey. ·Steve Klak. Lisa Baron. ·Fred Abott. Kevin Scoles, Jon Sargent. .· .. ' . . ; - ,. \-'' • . r : -~: \ ~ ·: _. ,; . . ~' : . , .. '.\·'··.· .. ·-··\'- ,, ';(· .... ·:,.~~~',. ,,:··{ ' ' I ' ) ' r • • • '• ' • 1 ',\ \\. \• •,'' ' • ,'• ,,·· • .. ,·.-~' .:••'\\::,t,· .... i·,:· .. :.·;~~~ .. -::J_.\·-~-- ~ . '. ~' .· . 1 l: o- ~,~ \ 0. 't_ ... ,.. - • L ~ ·~ j \. 1 BE ByPHYLl Marilyn Ch only one be~i1 The men m reside behind : doors. all of th Renovated Webster HoU! VITA and public Libnu House is th€ Union rnen. corner of can Place and U security remai A visitQr entrance to W front doors n built but loci is several yar The lobby OJ nowhere, unle mag·ical key locked gree: Lacking thi! pounding o necessary for From the green doo~:s remain an o l More pound the locked friend's room While it Webster is IJ fortress tha r dorm, the furniture anc ripped off imagined. Wardell, R.1 living there people walk furniture. l second fi< c\onsidered stopped an c one ofthdo Despite t the dorm, se expressed t college woul the peiipher they feel, we from gainin dorm from Unioh Stree1 The men the facilitie Double- anc into lounge carpeted an chairs, tabl lounges hav sterile atmo rootn of a 1 the magazi1 the lounge socializing. There unanimous Webster ,/'>~'-< § J LIP LIC 1 Mon. 4

CONCORDIENSIS, Friday, October 12, 1973 Page3 Behind The Green Doors By PHYLLIS EDELMAN Marilyn Chambers is not the only one behind ·the green door. The men in Webster House reside behind at least three green doors, all of them locked. such facihttes as the kitchenettes, a laundry room,. a .study room, and a reqreational room. One r.esjdent, Ian Gluck, claims that ;•Webster House make:; North College look like a tenement.\ A bjt of an exaggeration, but one can not deny that the men at Union now have their \palatial\ residence hall. conditions,'' but he preiers to ''socialize around Fox a.nd Davidson.\· The guys are rather anxious to see a few female faces 'li.round their dorm, to gloat over their comfortable surroundings. They are extremely friendly, hospitable, and entertaining, (you may even be offered a genuine New York City bagel if you're nice to them). If one .can manage to get behind the green doors, one wiH find that Webster House is as nice a place to visit as it is to live. Phi Beta Kappa Visiting Scholar Renovated a-nd refurbished, Webster House formerly housed VlT A and tbe Schenectady Public Library. Now, Webster· House is the res.jdence of 49 Union rnen. Tucked in the far corner of campus where Seward Place and Union Street meet,. security remains a tough problem. A visitQr wishing to .gain entrance to Webster must use the front doors rather than a newly. built but locked entrance which is several yards from Davidson. The lobby of Webster leads to nowhere, unless one possesses the mag·ic:al key which opens . the locked green ·corridor door. Lacking this key, a bit of pounding on tire- doo·r is necessa·ry for entrance. From the cetTidor the locked green dom:s of the lounges rernain an obstacle for a visitor. More pounding, and then only the locked green door of a friend's room IJtust be overcome. While it may appear that Webster is mote like the king's fortress than a Union College dorm, the fear of having furniture and personal property ripped off is more real than imagined. According to Pat Wardell, R.A. · at Webster, men living there ha'Ve already c~ught people walking off with lounge furniture. David Wydra,. a second floor resident, is c'onsidered a hero for having stopped an outsider from stealing one of the· lounge lamps. Despite tight security within the dorm, several of the residents expressed the hope that the college would run a fence around the periphery of the dorm. This, they feel, would. prevent oUtsiders from gaining easy access to the dorm from Sewatd Place and Unioh Street. . The men have few gripes with the facilities within the d~>rrn. Double' and single rooms open into lounges which are fully carpeted and replete with sofas, chairs, tables, and ·tamps. The lounges have a faint· tinge of the sterile atmosphere in the waiting room of a doctor's office, minus the maga?ines. Oespite this air, the lounges are conducive to socializing. There appears to be unanimous approval among Webster residents concerning r~ LIPSTEIN'S i LIGlUORS i Tel. 374-1888 Mon.-Sat. 9 a.m.-9 p.m. 464 State St. Downtown Schenectady Orte . of the ma;iot complaints most residents have is that the dorm is \too quiet.\ Michael 'l3aum, another resident in Webster. daims that tl'te dorm provides \!!ood academic photo by David Wydra. .center, the hero of second floor Webster surroundedby other residents. Firesign Out. tenunings Perform It was Tuesday evening when the agent for Proctor & _Bergman, a cornedy act contracted to perform at Union on Saturday, called to inform Union that.the contract would be broken. Proctor and Bergman were going to work straight through to . completion of a new album, cancelling all their upcoming concerts. . The unfortunate news left the Social Committee With 300 useless posters and a scheduled concert with no artist only five days away. Fortunately, N ATlON AL ·LAMPOON's LEMMINGS was available on October 13: their engagement in Toronto had been cancelled by the producer (it works both ways). And so, an unfortunate series of events culminate in a pleasant ending: LEMMINGS is scheduled to be performed in Memorial Chapel at 8:30 P.M. this Saturday evening, October 13. LEMMINGS opened in New York less than a year ago and was met by loud appl ·nd instant success. lt 1 ~ a 1 ·'let play written and directed by members .of National L mpo'on Dave's Mens Sllop 453'Sta~ St. (ciOWftiOWJl Se~tady) magazine's staff .. The first act is a series of short sketches on contemporary issues, occasion- ally ad-libbed or totally improvised. '\But it is in the second act tha~ the brilliance of the writers and actors is truly demonstrated.\ According to The Nutley Sun (6/28/13). The Woodshuck Music Festival unfolds . right before your eyes, complete with 'guest' stars Leon Russt'll; Mick Jagger, Joe Cocker, Bob Dylan, Joan Baez, and Jaines Taylor (all portrayed by the five actors, two of whom were members of the original New York company). LEMMINGS is a refreshingly original evening of entertainment, writte.n and produced by the people who bring you National Lampoon each month. Tick.ets for this unique performance aFe available at the door; $2.50 for Union Students (10, please), $3.00 all others. Ticket holders for Firesit• Theatre may use their tickets for LEMMINGS, or refund them at the Student Activities Office on Monday. The Social Committee invites you to treat yourself to a treat. Married couples needed for · Baby Sitting Fulltime-Part time, $16.1() per day. Free Room and Board. Ask for Jean- Tel. 456-0998. On October Z2 and 23, Dr. Phillips Talbot will spend two full days on the Union College Campus as a Phi Beta Kappa Visiting Scholar. Dr. Talbot is President of the Asia Society and has been both a U.S. Ambassador and Assistant Secretary of State under Presidents Kennedy and Johnson. His interests have focused on India and the rest of the South Asian sub-continent. Dr. 'Talbot will give a Public Lecture on Monday evening, October 22, at 8:00 p.m. in the Social Sciences Auditorium; the topic will be \Americans and Asians: What Futures Have WeT All interested members of the Union College community are invited to attend the lecture and a reception afterwards. In addition to his public lecture, Dt. Talbot will spend his two days on campus meeting formally and informally with interested students and faculty. On Tuesday afternoon, October 23, Dr. Talbot will meet with all students · interested in Asian affairs; the meeting will be held at 3:00 P.M. in the Social Sciences Faculty Lounge. Dr. Talbot is the fourth distinguished individual to visit the canipus as a Phi Beta Kappa Visiting Scholar. He will be the guest of the local chapter of Phi Beta Kappa, whose president is Prof. Joseph Finkelstein of the History Department. President of The Asia Society since 1970, Mr. Talbot served as Assistant Secretary of State for Near Eastern and South Asian Affairs from 1961 to 1965, and as Ambassador to Greece from 1965 to 1969. In the 1950's he was executive director of the American Universities Field Staff, a university-based program for the study of for~i.gjl. areas. and before that was a correspondent for the Chicago ...... •: ..... UNION COLLEGE FILM HAPS PRESENTS A Homecoming Special, the hilarious HAROLD AND MAUDE, with m~sic by Cat Stevens. SATURDAY AND SUNDAY 7 9 11 Oct. 20 & 21, Film Haps will present BELLE DE JOUR, directed by Luis Bunuel, whose latest fdm, The Discreet Charm of the Bourgeoisie has gotten rave te\!iews. BELLE DE JOUR stars the beautiful Catherine Deneuve, the sophistica.ted French bDmbshell of Chanel perfume eommercial fame. This film is brought back to Union by pDpular demand, after sell-out performances here three years ago. Film Haps also announces a change in schedule. Dec. l & 2 we will present Alfred Hitchcock's FRENZY. Virginia Woolf will be shown here this spring. Dear Future Educators of the World, Daily News in India,. Paktstan, and Southeast Asia. Phillips Talbot received his B.A. and B.S.J. degrees from the University of Hlinois in 1936. In 1938-39 he attended the Londcn School of Oriental and African PHILLIPS TALBOT Phi Beta Kappa Visiting Scholar Studies. The following year he continued his graduate work at Aligarh Muslim University in India, and in 1954 he obtained a Ph.D. in International Relations from the University of Chicago. A trustee of the Aspen InstitUte for Humanistic Studies, the China Medical Board and the JDR HI Fund, Mr. Talbot is a member of the Association for Asian Studies and the Royal Central Asian Society. He is on the board of governors of the Middle East Institute and is a trustee of the American Farm School and of Anatolia College, both in Thessaloniki, Greece. Co-author of India and America, Phillips Talbot has been a visiting professor at the University of Chicago, Columbia University, and the University of Hawaii. In 1952 he was consultant on Far Eastern programs for the Economic Cooperation Administration and from 1954-56 was study director of a project on Indian-American relations for the Council oil Foreign Relations. George's Music Store 508 State St. Schenectady Tel. 374-5921 College Discount I have recently opened the King of Subs a_t 102 Jay Street. My\ name is Sue and I would be honored to meet you person. I also· have a King of Subs . giving large discounts to you. on State and Erie. I will soon be Sincerely Yours, SUE King o.f· Subs Subs of Kings

.. · Page 4 CONCORDIENSJS, Friday, October 12, 1973 Maintenance: Where Are You? Students' Soy MAINTENANCE V:IEWS FOX HOUSE By CINDY SHEPPARD \The maintenance seems to be satisfactory,\ comments one freshman woman who resides in Fox House ... They're nice guys,\ claims a male resident of Fox, .. yeah,\ he continues,. \they're a good bunch of .guys who do work. If you don't make yourself known, it's hard to deal 'with . them, but if you go down and talk to them in person and show some Usher interest in them, then things get done.\ Another student praised the Maintenance department, relating that they requested a Iamp and that it· was delivered the same day. Her roommate added, \I guess that's where the desk came from, too.\ On the other hand, one individual pointed out that certain things are in a constant state of disrepair. She explained, \Nothing is repaired unless someone complains about it, so the lounges aren't in very good shape. I guess it's because they don't belong to any one person.\ She then said that this wasn't a Continued from Page f fault of Maintenance, but a problem with the entire system. to be done than in the estimating A freshman said, ··we haven't of jobs and the scheduling of jobs, had any problems. l don't know m<>re involved with that than the anything about Maintenance,\ actual operational control of the which appears to be common men in the field among freshmen. Q: Are there ~ny problems th~t \Just look at all the holes in the you are experiencing right now .in walls,\ replied one student as she tile maintenance of the school? gestured toward the corridor, A: Well, probably the biggest \and then you'll see just how problem is the amount of effective Maintenance is. She maintenance to be done in continued, \Chunks of paint and relation to the amount of people plaster are missing, and I've never we have to do it and the amount seen any attempt at repair.\ of money we have to do it with, in * * * * being able to do things in a timely MAINTENANCE SURVEY manner. There are things that we \The grounds are kept have to delay too much really, beautifully, b1,1t th.e dorms are in simply because of the work load. generally poor condition. Also, Q:- Tllen is it mainly money that when you do have a problem, hclds you up? Maintenance is very slow getting A: No it's not just money. It's to it.\ just volume of work and time of \I think they should spend a lot people to get it set up, scheduled, more time on housing, because its and done. important... The housing. is bad Q: Are there any big projects or enough, but the fact that they i~ it just the everyday work load? neglect it makeS it worse. They're A: If we didn't have some of incompetent.\ the big projects that we~re also \I think its good - I've never trying to handle there would then had any complaints.\ be more time that could be \I've had h!~,lf a rug since I've dev<>ted to this straight:. been here ... Theyare anicebunch maintenance, the big projects that ~ of ineffectual guys.\ rm talking about that are, well \They really try, but they they're mostly done now but they . operate 011 a typically Union were under our supervision College lever and get nothing directly and took the time of our done.\ people. This was Webster House \I have no really big which we had to get ready for the complaints. We haven't come in fall and the work we were doing contact with them much.\ in the College Center, and the \It's unfortunate that they can't work we were doing in the be more efficient and conscious of Fieldhouse to get the floor in. their duty to maintain Union. These were mainly the major Take a careful look at the j>rojects that we were also dormitory upkeep -or lack of it l'landling tbis summer. That has - for an excellent illustration of an inevitable effect on a force, not what I mean.\ t.hat our mechanics were doing \Everything I ever asked for ... this but in terms of our they always took their damn supervisory time. sweet time.\ Q: Are there any future projects \They seem to be a bit and/or problems that you expect disorganized.\ to arise? \I want my vacuum cleaner!\ A: I don't forsee immediately any projects of the scope of a Webster House or a College Center. Q: Then everything should be going smoothly from here on in? A: Well hopefully, hopefully. Q: How many years have you been here Mr. Usher? A: I came in the summer of '61. Q: Have you any views on the change in the students, or any opinion on Union College students at all? A: Well, yes. Q: Have th~y caused your job to be an any way different? A: Well they have when I first came here the students were'nt all LeVfS Da_ve's· Meas Shop . I . 453 State St. ~downtown Sc~nectady) 1 CLIFFORD BOURST ARCO 80 NOTT TERRACE SCHENECTADY School of Managemen Syfacuse University, Syracuse, N.Y. will be Mills: Hard at Work Concordy; What do you see as the main functions of Maintenance? Mills: To take care of the operation and maintenance of the College physical plant. C: And what do you mean by the \~oll~gc:- physical plant?\ M: By that I mean the buildings, the grounds, and the utilities of the school. You see, ideally the students shouldn't even know that Maintenance is there. If everything went as planned, then you wo.uldn't even notice our presence. C: What exactly is your position? M: I am !he Assistant Director of Physical Plant. I report to Mr. Walsh,~~Vho is the Director and he in turn reports to Mr. Usher who is the Director of Business and Facility Operations. C: As Assistant Director of Physical Plant, what are your specific duties? M: Well, I suppose you would ~ay planning and work control. C: What do you see as the mafn problems right now? M: Simply that there's more work than there is time to do it. Every area has its own problems. C: Why weren't the basic room problems such as no chairs, lights, shades, etc., taken care of before the stl:ldents came so that your work load would be easier now? M: We started working at one end of the campus and by th.e time the stud~nts arrived, we ha<l run out of time. You see, last year the dorms were left more of a mess than l can ever remember having seen. (: How do you feel. about Union students? M: I suppose anybody who gets in here is in the top 5% of 'intelligence in the country. What we ha-ve here is the cream of America's young generation. But in every large group there a·re always a few bad apples. Unfortunately, people tend to see the entire st·udent body by what they see ·Of the bad apples Who ~tand out In general, I think we have a good group of .students. C: Do you think that the new philosophy that we ate trying to ~tress of faith and responsibility will work out? M; It's an admirable idea and I hope .it works. If everybody on campus -worked on it, or if 909'[ worked on it, there's no reason they couldn't .get the other lOo/r into line and make it work. Efficiency 1 AN INCIDENT WITH A MAINTENANCE WORKER Wondering where our vacuum cleaner was, 1 walked down to the Maintenance Building and inquired of one of the maintenance workers where our vacuum clea.ner was and why we haven't received it. Fall of Usher As the man looked down on me and said, \Why do you care?\ I shook ~ little and took a step backwards, assuring him that I only wanted to clean my room. By DON KRONE \That vacuum cleaner is for the Maid's use only!,\ he thundered. When most students left school last spring they were under the assumption that, upon returning Memorial Fieldhouse, home for the basketball, indoor track and intramural sports would be sporting a new artificial floor. Usher issued assurance that the laying of the floor and the painting of the lines would start yesterday. The delay stems from the fact that the firm in question is also doing a similar job at the Troy Armory for Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute. I said, •'But while she's not ·l,lsing it I can use it, can't. I?\ To most everyone's surprise the work has not yet been completed and may not even be ready for the start of basketball practice on Nov. I. When athletic director Bruce Allison was questioned about the situation he was dismayed ... It has been delayed and I do not know why.\ \My understanding was that the firm who is going to put the artificial (Tartan) smface down was supposed to be here Sept. lst, but the~e is no floor yet,\ added Allison. On July 24 the Vappi Construction Company arrived to initiate action on the $300,000 renov,ation project which displaces a dirt floor and a portable wooden basketball cotirt. A check with Business Manager Harold Usher found that the cement work, done by the Vappi organization, was completed in II days. The cement was poured in strips, with three days allowed · between pours and adjacent strips. The strips were saw-cut to account for expansion and contraction during the settling process. Usher stated th&t the cement work had to be completed by the middle of August, (which it was) and then a 28-day curing period had to follow, .. It took some time to complete the bidding on the work,\ usher said in response· to a question concerning why the cement was not put in until the end of July. Informed sources reported that the Vappi firm was ready well in advance of July 24 and arrived to start work the day they were informed they had received the bid. Allison revealed several weeks ago that R.P.I. had put a penalty clause in their .contnct to insure that the work would be done by Oct. 15. \In spite of my urging, the Business Manager (Usher) deClined to put a penalty clause in our contract,\ Allison said. In defense, Usher stated, '\If you p.ut a penalty clause on a contract you will end up paying it in the bid. We felt it was not necessary.\ Although the firm installing the floor · feels the task will be completed by Nov. I, Usher disagrees. \I think it is likely that they will go over the Nov. I date, despite the fact all the materials are being stored in the Fieldhouse.\ If the floor is not completed by that date, the basketball team will find Alumni Gym home for several days. Fortunately the first home game is not until Jan. 23rd against Williams, which will give Coach Scanlon's squad enough time to get used to the new surface. · One can only conclude that the campus was not given the proper facts on what would be the completion date of the construction. We were told that ' when we arrived for fall term the facility would he ready. It also seems questionable that no penalty clause was utilized. R.P.l. · appatently found it acceptable and the threat of monetary loss had some effect on the work being completed on time. The Athletic Department is certainly not at fault. The actions of Mr. Usher must be questioned as not being in the best interests of the student body. r---.----------------r---, I Sl I DISCOUNT WITH AD ll Sf I '~\'No.·· \Oh.\ With a smile to assure me we were still friends, he explained, \The maid has to meet a .schedule for being in 1 different places at specified times. So if you were using the vacuum cleaner when she wanted to use it she'd be in trouble.\ \But if that occureq,\ I sjtid, \I'd gladly give it. to her.\ \Others wouldn't.\ \Oh.\ Another smile and then~ he further set my mind at ease when he said, \There's an efficiency expert here on campus to make sure that the maids are in their proper places, and if a situation like a missing vacuum cleaner occured, that maid could be terminated!'' : I started to giggle a little but quickly recovered before he beat me up. Leaving there I thought. \Wow this efficiency expert really is pretty strict. I wonder if he meant liquidate?\ \' Moffet's Liquors 1505 VanVranken Mon.-Sat. 9:30-9:00 346-0392 Join Our Wine Tasters Club Free. =········~~:····-- •• • • THE • . active in the parts of the College that didn't directly concern them in the sense that it wasn't ~a part <>f either the educational or recreational interests that they had over the yeats. I've seen their intefest grow in these other areas that we're concerned with and I think that's a very good thing. They should be interested in the things that affect the cost of going here and the kind of environment they have. Because of this it has put certain pressures on us that we haven't had, but pressures that should be th~re. . ,, interviewing interested ' ·1 1 --~-·-Tfe~~:::t-~1 CONVERSE \ ·II ·! Other Side E 5 of Today· ! applicants for the Masters in Business Administration and M.S. in Accounting Program oq Tuesday, Octo-ber 30, 1973 ~ 2 p.rn.-5 p.m: For further at the I MOCCASINS I 1 1 Lined & Waterproof Winter & Hiking Boots .:1 - Complete Line of Dance Ace. -· I I ' 147 JAY ST. . ' L . .Tel. 374-7777 . Hr. 9•5:30, Tb. !)-9 . . . 1 1 -------~------~~-~--~--- • • • .. Handcrafted & • : Imported Items', I = 135 JAY ST. I • . Tel. 377-0477 I ···:·······,········ B While. the pre: communi ameli ora laudable, they chc every OJ along rna of some example tendency support boycotts chic's fa• Chavez. In the Farm meQ!;ed Worken and soo union. Worker! simply committ The gro opening field fo Because did n unioniz Worker free e whethe1 wanted were f Labor 1 union could agreem force worker It w NFWP in th< statem \bringi wages worke1 . C< his res s:uffen 'theM does, finally d~tern This~ Harol featur appen efficie comp York. Se\ peopl alreac exam time the or feel nevet entire slips! stud< and: to be time thrw decli reasc are .I impt the rep a imp' day~ lr litth out( syst will fror on wai

• I I I I I I I • I I I I I I I I I· t f CONCORD lENS IS, Friday, _October 12, 1973 Page5 Cesar's. Lettuce Prey By G. W. QUINN down the spines of liberals It was the lettuce mess that While the commitment which everywhere. 1t is p.erhaps really allowed Chavez to show the pr~ss and the liberal unfortunate that this rhetoric was his creative powers however. community has towards the not based on truth. The workers Despite the fact that 85% of amelioration of society is were neither impoverished nor the growers had signed contracts laudable, it is regrettable that migrant, and they rejected with the Teamsters Union, and they choose to go ~a-ga over Chavez and his union. A terror that Chavez had agreed not to every opportunist who comes campaign launched against the interfere in lettuce in return for a along masquerading as the savior workers (for their own good) free hand in grapes, Ceasar called of some particular group. An proved as ineffectual as peaceful a strike. example of this unfortunate persuasion . and gentle lies. He said (and the Ne.w York tendency is the wide-spread Indeed, although Chavez claimed Times thus reported) that 7500 support of the grape ahd lettuce that \thousands\ of workers had workers had walked out. (In boycotts inspired by the radical participated in the strike, the peak season there were only 5600 chic's favoiite la,.bor boss, Cesar California Department of workers in California). Chavez. Human Resources Development He claimed, and CBS reported In the early '60's the National was only able to report 100 on the horrid conditions of the Farm Workers Association strikers in all of California in the states migrants. (They comprise merged . with the Agricultural yea~s 1966-196:7. If these figures only 9 percent of the agricultural Workers Organizing Committee are doubted, it may be added labor force and almost none of and soon became a recognizable that California grapes were the lettuce pickers). union. Chavez's United Farm picked in record . amounts in His parent AFL-CIO reported Workers Nationa:l Union is these years. that farm worker income was less simply this early organizing A lesser man might have than $2000 a year. (Included in committee with another name. admitted defeat, but little Cesar this average is 60 percent of the The group had as its purpose the remained undaunted. The tactic work force made up of opening up of the agricultural of appeal to the American people temporary . workers like field for labor union expansion. through the medium of a liberal housewives, students, and men Because the federal labor laws press proved to be a successful with other jobs). did not cover agricultural one for Chavez. as millions He cl!iimed that salaries unionmng, the United · Farm boycotted gn1pes. And so the averaged $1.60 an hour. (Most workers was not fo.rced to hold American people were able to were over $4.00 an hour and the free elections to determine force innocent workets into Teamsters Contracts offered whether the werk:er.s actually Chavez's power when violence \)r higher wages than the few UFW wanted the union. The employers deceit would not. The grape contracts signed). were forced by the California growers were faced with He did not tell us that the Labor Code to negotiate with the bankruptcy and satisfied the Salinas cutters were earning from union however, and. the UFW people by recognizing the United $ 8000 to$lO,OI>O a yea.r. Co uld thus sign a closed shop Farm Workers as the sole ·· the He did not teH us that agreement with the grower to bargaining agent for the workers. be workers did n(')t want to force the ·compliance of the The growers and the governor controlled by the UFW. workers. had suggested elections, but It was in 1965 that the then Chavez declined participating in NFWA began serious organizing what was to him an alien form of in the grape fields. Chavez's government. Lastly, he .qid not tell us that, rather than rotting in the fields, the lettuce was in fact picked in record volume. statement that his union was \bringing the hope of higher wages to impoverished migrant workers\ sent thrills up and I Am Innocent Analysis · Continued from page 1 his responsibility. In a system that SJ.Iffers.from poor organization, as 'the Maintenance system ,..certainly does, the responsibility must finally rest with the people who dt:;,termine the organization itself. This eventually leads one back to Harold Usher. We offer this feature on Maintenance as an appendix to the analysis. of the efficiency people who . are now completing their report in New York. Several of the efficiency By DON KAPLAN \I Will Fight To Prove My Innocence,\ or \W~ve Got Your No-Good Ass Legal, Now.\ All Union College student or faeulty members interested in applying for the position of \Vice President of the United States\ should send their resumes to Washington care ·of Concordiensis. lt is suggested that minimal qualifications include graft on State level concurrent with the ability to talk of \lawandorder\ in one word. Also, insensitivity to ethnic feelings and distaste for those who are trying to get a college education might be helpful. ' recogmzmg that \The name Spiro Agnew is not a household word. I certainly hope it will become one in tne next couple of months.\ He needn't have worried. How about \If you've seen one city slum you've seen them all,\ or, \an effete corps of impudent snobs · who characterize themselves as liberals.\ He was talking about Schenectady and us, respectively. Speaking of radical groups, such as \hippies and yippies\ he said \I'd rather swap the whole zoo for one platoon of the fine young Americans I saw in Vietnam.\ The funny thing is that he was talking about those he drafted unwillingly. It only depended where ybu wanted to do it - fight it out over there or fight it Frosh Elections Elections to determine the two representatives to the Steering Committee from the Class of '77 wiil be held on Tuesday, October 30. For those who are not familiar with this organization, a brief summary is in order. The Steering Committee is concerned solely with student affairs on campus, and is composed entirely of students .. (As opposed to the All-College Senate, which is composed of students, faculty, and administration.) The AU-College Senate deals with affairs that affect the entire College community. Elections for this organization are not held until the spring. The Steering Committee is made up of two representatives from each class, along with the President, Vice-President, and Secretary of the Student-Body. It takes care of issues that affect students only. Recent topics on the agenda have included the placement of bulletin boards in the College Centero appointment of students to College commtttees, regulations for student activities, and an investigation of freshman meal plans at Saga. · Each of the two elected class representatives is appointed to either the Conduct Committee or the Committee on Committees. · These are two of the most important committees in which students are involved. The Conduct committee, as its name implies, deals with infractions of the rules of the College by students. The Committee on Committees is responsible for the appointment of students to all of the other College committees. · These· appointments are su~iect to the approval of the Steering Committee as a whole. Those freshmen who are interested in running for the two available positions can pick up nominating petitions from Mrs. DARJ;_. TREET WEDNESDAY SPECIAL CLAM DINNER French Fries, Cole Slaw and Dinner Roll - 51.69 2049 VAN VRANKEN Mon.-Fri. 6-9 Sat. 8-9 Tel. 377-4261 Levrs Marra in the Student Activities Office, Old Gym Hall, starting one week from today, Friday, October 19. A minimum of 105 signatures will be required in order to get on \the ballot. All petitions must be returned by noon on Monday, October 29. Position on the ballot will be determined by the order in which petitions are returned. AH petitions will be checked by the Election Committee. Any candidate wishing to have a statement printed in Concordy can do so by placing a typed statement in the Concordy mailbox by 5 p.m. on Thursday, October 25. Students will cast their votes for any two candidates appearing on the ballot. In case two candidates do not receive enough votes to win, a run-off election will be held on Thursday, November 1. Voting will be held in the Strauss Lounge of the College Center from 9 a.m. - 10 p.m. on both days. Anyone, who for one reason or another, will not be able to vote on the· specified days, and who wishes to do so, can cast an absentee ballot by contacting the Election Committee or by giving such a ballot to Mrs. Marra. Absentee voting will be conducted on a write-in basis. All absentee ballots must be in by noon on Friday, October 26. If there are any questions, or if anyone desires furth:er information, contact Harry Lessin at 370-6560. Old WRUC Continued from page 1 the phone call. Admittedly there were many operations for Maintenance to perform - ·but how much does it take to get an estimate? The next step after this will be Dean Smith's going to the Provost for allocation of funds; if this estimate had been given earlier, perm1ss10n would probably have already been received for the allocation of funds. Then, when Maintenance decreased its concentration of jobs, (which always come in the beginning of school) they could have started right in working on Mr. Moore's office. people's recommendations have already been put into effect. For example, the maids are now on a time .schedule. This is fine in theory, but most students seem to feel that the bathrooms have never been so dirty and that the entire quality of service is slipshod. Fine; We ask these students to bear with the system and give it a chance. It ta:kes time to become used to working on a time schedule, and when one is thrust into it quickly panic and decline in quality may be reasonable results to expect. We are hopeful that this situation will improve in the near future. In fact the residents of South College report that the service has improved in the past two· or three days. Seriously, though, what does Mr. Agnew do now? He did receive at least $85,000 from . issuing shady state construction contracts; some of it even was delivered to him at his place in the Executive Office Building. But that won't last hitn for long; he has to pay that $10,000 fine. Maybe 'Mr. Agnew will tour the nation and tell all. the Union College Social Committee could hire Spiro. Better than Buzzy Linhart or the Charles Mingus quartet. Think of the nostalgia produced by bringing back those great phrases of the late 60's, Remember? He started out by out here. D , M Sh Finally, who will replace aveS~ ens op· From the standpoint of LeRoy Moore, the office of the Dean of Students is caught in the middle of this, along with any student Who desires to speak with the Assistant Dean. In the words of one student trying to locate Mr. Moore's office, \Placement Office? Whete's that?\ In summary, there is obviously little that can be improved in the output of Maintenance until the system itself is cleaned up. This will not take place until the report from the city arrives and is placed on the Provost's desk. We can't wait. ~?><Qlt.b>il::':'~. ' i · mama ~ Bianch.i' s § u Banquet Facilities~· Available Free to § College Groups\ 1135 Barrett Tel. 346-9261 ~~•th>V.A Agnew? Is it true that President 453 State St. Martin had advance waming of (downtown Schenectady) the impending decision and ~;;j~~;;~~»;\;«~~~icU. resigned from Union accordingly? He doesn't have a Texas accent, nor did he impose the strictest drug laws in the nation. He does, however, have a Texan hat. Lastly, what will the National Lampoon's Mrs. Agnew's Diary say? \Spiggy you done wrong?\ Columbia University Graduate School of Business \Unusual Solid Copper Gifts ... For Every Occasion\ Maintenance Interviews Prof. Gus Grammas will be on campus Oct. 16 to speak with students from all disciplines who are interested in a graduate management education. Nine possible concentrations are offered, plus a variety of joint degree programs in conjunction with other graduate divisions of Columbia University. ·For COPPER GIFT SHOP Two of the Maintenance workers were interviewed with the same questions posed to Usher and Mills, and this is what they had to say: Question: What is the function of maintenance? Worker #1: \Anything they can handle either inside of buildings or outside. All trades are included.\ Worker #2: \We have to maintain the boilers and hea.ters and see to it that everything is operating.\ Question: What are your specific jobs? Worker . #l: \Plumbing and heating.\ Worker #2: \I take care of the boiler room.\ Question: What problems do you see -wi·thin maintena·nce~\' Worker # 1: \None.\ Worker #2: \We don't have contact with the maintenance outside the boiler room, so any problems that might arise are ~olved here. •• · Question: What problem~ do you see in the future? Worker #l: \There is a manpower shortage which will cause problems in the winter.\ Worker #2: See previous response. Question: What is your general opinion of Union College !-.tudents? Worker #l: \Union students are all right. They don't cause me problems ~nd I don't cause them problems. They are people just like everyone else.\ Worker #:Z: '\The ki~s are all right. They're good kids.\ . further details, contact the Placement Center. 133 Jay St. ___ ..__ ..... ~--- 10% Discount ------------- ..... WITH THIS AD -~GOOD UNTIL 10~19 _ _,..., REALE'S CAMERA SHOP NIKON LEICA MINOLTA \Supplies for the Professional & Amateur LENSES • FILM • PAPER HOURS: Mon.-Fri. 11·9, Sat. 11·5 1957 Foster Ave. (off Nott) Tel: 377-4446

i I· ·' Page6 CONCORD~ENSJS, Friday, October 12, 1973 BLITHER. Celebration of Succoth The International Relations Club will sponsor a discussion of the Arab-Israeli War and American Foreign Policy with Profs. Berk and Board on Monday, Oct. 15, at 4:30 p.m. in SSO 16. Everyone is urged to attend and bring questions.. * *.* * October 16. The main purpose of the meeting is the election of a class representative and an alternate. The Senior class represmtative and alternate will be present at the meeting to discu~s the role <:>f class representatives. * * * * ByJUDYDEIN Standing unobtrusively near protection given to the Israelis the gate inside Jackson's Gardens during their 40 years of is a small booth. Made of wood wandering through the desert, with a twig roof through which fell on · Wednesday evening; one can gaze at the stars, the October 10. The holiday will last building, a succah, was built by a for seven days·, ending with the . few members of the Hillel Jewish holiday ·of Simchas Torah. O rganization at Union College. The funds for the succah carne ·I-he Polit1'cal Forum will [') ·F- J ef Strauss · · r. ranz os · · · · The succah was built to help from the Hilh:~l treasury, and the ~ponsor a pand discussion gn President of West Germany's celebrate the Jewish holiday .of plans for its construction. were ·'Political Dissent\ on Tuesday, ('h · t·a 'Soc1'al1'st Unt·on w1\ll · ns 1 n · · · · ·, Succoth,- which fa:lls on the 15th drawn up by Professor Eisenstat October 16th in SSOI6 at 7:30 k · Old Ch 1 Monday · ~pea In · ape · · ' day of the month Tishri of the Mechanical Engineering P .m. Faculty members from the o t ber 15 at to· a.· m on the d c 0 · · · · · · · according to the Jewish calendar. Department. Dinner was serve· De.partments of PhilosoiJ, hy, b. t f. \T.he Germ· an Role in W d d ~u ~ec 0 · · · · ' · ' In America this year, Succo.th, at the succah e ·nes ay History., Political Science, and th 1 t nat1'onal Monetary 'd' .e n er · · '· · · a holiday celebrating the harvest evening, with: Saga provt mg Sociology will discuss their ideas System.\ Dr. Strauss held several and commeni.orating the food for all those on a meal plan. on dissent. All interested. a.re cabinet posts, including terms as Services were led by Bob welcome to* at~en~ * minister of finance and minister .B·~ L·· ~··· T·· H· _,· · E·· • ·.R• . Kaslovsky. of defense in the Adenauer . . . . In A Book of Jewish T6 all Seniors interested in administration. Concepts, Philip Birnbaum attending law school. Professor Albert Coppe from Bio majors: Need any help? des<;ribes the succah 1n the The following representatives University Louvain in Belgium Have any questions? If we can't following way: from law schools will be available will speak Wednesday, October he of help perhaps we can find \The frail sukkah, which must for inte.rviews in the Political 17 at .3:00 p.m. in SS Ul6 on \The ~omeone who can be. Don't not exceed the height of twenty Science Department Office. Future Course of the Emopean hesitate to call. Cathy Toye, 406 cttbits (thirty feet), is said to I. Oct. 17, 2 to 4: Dean Roy L E con om i c Communi t Y. '' North, Estelle Cooke, 102 conVey the idea that man should Steinheimer, School of Law, Professor C,oppe has held several Edwards H 0 use, Richard never be haughty. The walls of Washington and Lee University. cabinet posts in his country Sommer and Howard Eisenson, the ~ukkah must be sufficiently 2. Oct. 23, 10 to ll a.m.: Prof. including that of Minister of 425 South. strong to withstand ordinary B. J. Tennery, Washington Economic Affairs. * * * * gusts of wind ... The stars must be College of Law, The. American Both lectures are open to the visible through the roof-covering. University. Union College community. The Idol presents a workshop of twigs and leaves as a constant 3. Nov. I, 9 to II a.m.: Prof. * * * * for writers of poetry and f~ictiond reminder that all blessings reach Melvin Shimm, Duke University The Tour de Uni()n race will be Bring Your Stuff ~ this an us fr.om our heavenly Father.\ Law Schcwl. held Sunday at 1:00 p.m. nc;>t every Wednesday evening ~ 7 : 30 Traditionally, Jews moved out * * * * Saturday as scbeduled. in Carnegie'!' St!au!s ~ounge. of their homes and lived· in the Health Service Hours: * * * * succah during the holiday. Nurse on duty; 7 days a week eco0,nmomicr 1 _cosn s?oecl 1 .teat.y.Epwsi 1 .lsohi1e,st .ht 0 e l ISABELLA'S . •! According to Maimonides 1 by -- 8 a.m.- II p.m. . . , ~ . living irt the succah man is forced Physician on duty: Regular invite all membe~s of the u mon F & H· Pharm-acy· to remember bad times despite clinic hours: Monday-Friday, 8 College commumty to an open · . . . . . his present wealth, and will a.m.-10 a.m.; seminar entitled: \Food Energy 527 UNION ST. therefore live modestly. The GYN clinic: Tuesdays, 12:30 to and Solutions: The Economics of Phone 370-2300 tr-adition of living in the succah 2:15 (by appointment); . Shortages.\ · has been modified in most areas, Allergy clinic: Thursdays, The discussion will begin in the and now most Jews who do build 12:30-2. Strauss Lounge of the College a succah just dine in it and do A nurse or a responsible Ce.nter at 7:30 p.m. - on not move in for the week. Ltudent aide is on duty to answer w d d o t 17 When asked if the present war ~ e nes ay, c ·. . . . . , emergency dills, 24 hours a day * * * \' in the· Middle East put a damper (3-70-6120), 7 days a week. Dave's Mens Shop on the holiday, Haim Goldsten, * * * * What is now the -Food Co•Op -4SJ State St. Secretary of Hillel and one of the There will be a meeting of at Davidson in the north wing builders of the succah, replied, Junior Political Science Majors in was formerly the l3lack Library. '\It is in times of wat that it is eyen more useful to ex press a feeling. of unity.\ Evert those Jews .ia Israel caught in the middle of a war will .celeb:rate the holida_y. As reported in the N.Y. Tiroes on Thursday, Oct. n, ··1he Sinai D~ser·t was dotted with cer.errionial booths today to mark the feast -of Succotn .. .This will enable religious Jewish soldiers to fulfill the Bibli.cal iDj urtction, ''Ye shall dwell in booths seven .days, that your generations· may know that I made the children of Israel dwell in booths whtm I ·brought them out of the land of Egypt .. \ There ·is little doubt that Jews the world over, while celebrating .the joyful holiday of Suceoth, will take time out and once again pray for peace. ~Double Feature~ MAN CALLED HORSE ~PLUS~ . LITTLE BIG MAN TIMES: Mon.·Thurs HORSE, MAN, 9:00; Fri.-Sat; .. lJO!t.SE 10:50; BIG MAN-8:30 THESUSP FrLM OFTHEYEAR THEDAYOF THE JACKAL Show Time~ 7:0Q,'};JO College Students With Pic I. D. $1.51! Sun. thru Fri. S.S. 115 at 4:30 O'n Tuesday, , ~~-~~\\\'. • ...,~,..-..,~~,....,..,..,...,~,_~::o:;~=!\:!''l:~~-~~~.~~~:::'!-~~:o:;;-~-~~~::>;;jl~~~-~~~-~~- S:~~-~~~--~- ~· ~-~~· ~~~~· ::lS-~~'-'~~~·~, S:~i\;:~.;:;;~~- ~-c,;;~~-lJi:~S:_ -~:~-.~~- ~-;:;-~;:::- :S. ~~ . ( \ Your·hel is needed • ·- ISRAEL EMERGENCY FUND Cash, or checks payable to Israel Emergency Fund, will be accepted by: P'ROF. S. 'B·ERK- Social Sciences Bldg. LAURA GREENE -~Nqrth Rm. 411 B In a which 1 of the Marchi Macdo1 deserve howeve Gerty needed a powe For th Garnet point a The footba,l hetwee Union mouth ~chool points Alfn 1-lockeJ to opel firsf 4uarte1 (Charli fancy later; Alfr, into t The team c Williat face t.; Williat won 1 oppon made to the It v was tl play e from- Willia penetr but v. good Friedt lead \ the b: close 1 The attack and sc penalt the sc first h Wil sec on< soon· kick, a shot

;· Page6 CONCORD{ft.NSJS, Friday, Ottober 12, 1973 ~LITHER. Celebration of Succoth The lnternational Relations Club will sponsor 11 discussion of the Arab-lsr.aeli War and Americd:ln Foreign Policy with Profs. 8erk and Board on Monday, Oct, ·15, at 4:30 p.m. in SSOI6. Everyone is urged to attend and bring question&. * * * * rbe Political Forum will ~ponsor a panel discussion on ··Political Dissent\ on Tuesday, October 16th. in SSO 16 at 7:30 p.rn. Faculty members from the Departments of Philosophy, History, Pot.itic.al Science, and Sociology will discuss their ideas on dissent. All interested · ate welcome to attend. * '* * * October l6. The main purpose of the meeting is the election 'Of a class representative and atJ a.lterna:te. The Senior class representative and alternate will be present at the meeting to discuss the role of class representa,tives. * * * * J)y JUDY DEIN Standing unobtrusively near protection given to the ls:taefis the gate inside Ja~kson's Gardens during their 40 years of is a small booth. Made of wood' wandering through the desert, with a twig roof .threugh which fell on Wednesday eve1;1.ing, one can ga1;e at the stars, the October 10. The_holic;lay will ht$t .building, a suc.cah, was built by a for se:ven days; ~;:hding witl_l_ th¢ few members of the Hillel Jewish holiday of Simchas Torah. Organization at Union College. 1he funds for th~:: succah came Dr. Franz Josef Strauss, The succah was built to help from the Hillel treasury. and the Pr.esiaent of. West Germany's celebrate the Jewish hOliday . 0 f plans for it's constructi0o · were Christian Socialist Union, will Succoth, which falls o.n the 15th drawn up l',ly Professor .E~~~:nstat ~peak in Old Chapel Monday. day of. the month Tishri of the Mechanical Engineering October 15 at 10 a.m. 011 the according ~othe Jewishcalend~u. Department. Dinner was served ~ubject of \The German Role in In America this year, Succoth, at . the succah Wednesday the International Mo.netary a holid~ay celebrating the harvest . evening, with Saga providiug System.\ Dr. Strauss held several and commemorating the food for all those on a meal .plan. ~,:ahinet posts, including terms as Services Wel'e · led by Bob minister of finance andA' md· in.ister _'?_:_. L· ··.· .. I'. r.· .. B.:_·.···.· 'E•. · ...... · R· ....... ·. Kaslovsky. To all Seniors interested attending law school. of defense in the . enauer D In . A Book of ,Jewi&h in administration. Conc~pts, Philip Birnbaum Professor Albert Coppe from Bio majors: Need any help? describes the succah in the The following representatives fr.om law schools will' be available for interviews in, the Political Science Department Office. I. Oct. 17, 2 to 4: Dean Roy L. Steinheimer, School of Law, Washington and Lee University. 2. Oct. 23. 10 to ll a.m.: Prof. B. J. Tennery. Washington College of Law, The American University. J. Nov. I, 9 to II a.m.: Pr.of. Melvin Shirtun, Duke University Law Scllool. * * * * University Louvain in Belgium Have any questions? If we c_an't foilowing way; . will speak Wednesday, October be of help perhaps we can find \the frail sukkah, which must 17 at 3:00 p.m. in SS 016 on \The ~omeone who -can be. Don't not exceed the height of twenty Future Course of the European hesitate to call.. Cathy Toye, 406 cubits {thirty feet), is said to Ecenomic Cornmun·ity.n North, Estelle cooke, 102 convey the idea that man should Professm Coppe has held seve.ral Edwards House, Richard ne:vetbe h!lughty. The w·a:ns of cabinet posts in his country Sommer and Howard Eisenson, the sukkah must he sufficiently including that · of Minister of 425 S.outh. strong to withstand . ordinary Economic Affairs. * * * * gusts of wind ... The stars must be:; Both lectures are open to the · visible through the roof~overing. Union College community.. The Idol presents a workshop of tWigs. and leaVes as a constant * * * * for writers of poetry and fiction. reminder that an blessings reach The Tour de u._ion race will be Bring your Stuff ~ this and us from our heavenly Father.\ . held Sunday ~,~t 1:04) p.m. not every Wednesday evening ~ ?: 30 Traditionally, Jew$ moved out S d h d I d in Carnegie Strauss Lounge. of .the.ir. hom.es an.· d Jived· in the atur ay as sc e . u e _. '!' * * * . Heaith Service Hours: * * * * succa.h during· the holid'ay, N~rse on duty; 7 days a week Omicron Delta Epsilon, the. £iSABELLA'S ·. · .... ·1· According to Maiinonides 1 by -- 8 a.m.•ll p.m. ecqnomics society, wishes . to r . living in the succah man is forced Physician on du.ty: Regular invite all members of the Umon F· &• H.. P·h·. . . . te remember bad times despite clinic hours: Monday~Frid;ry, 8 College community to an open . · . · . . . . .• armacy his prese:fit wealth, and will a.m.-10 a.m.: seminar ·entitled: ''Food, Ener-gy 52.7 UNION ST. therefore live modestly, The GYN clinic: Tuesdays, 12:30 to and S6lutions: The Economics of· Phone 370-2300 tradition of living in t-he succah 2:15 (by appointment); . . Shortages.\ · has been modified in ·most areas, Allergy · clinic: Thursdays, The discllssion will begin in the and now rnost Jews who do build 12:30-2. Strauss Lounge of the College a succah just dine in it and do A nu ·rse· .o. r a re· spon.sible c t 7· 30 · n not mo.ve In for the week. e;nter a. ·: . p.m. o >tudent aide is on duty to answer Wednesday, Oct. 17. - When asked if the. pre~ent war ertuJrgen<.;y calls, 24 hours a day * * * * in the, Middle East ·put a damper tJ?0-6120), 7 days a week. Dave's Mens Shop on the holiday, Haim Goldsten, * * * * What is now the..I:;'ood Co-Op -iSJ State St~ SecretarY of Hillel and one of'th'e eyen more useful to express a feeling of up.ity.\ ·Even those Jews in Israel caught in thl! middle of a war will ce1(1brate the holiday. As reported in the. N.Y. tianes. on Thursday, Oct. 1' l, ·••the Sinai D~sert was dotted with ceremonial: booths today to mark t'he feast .of Su.ccoth ... This will enable religious Jewish soldiers to fulfill the Biblical injunction,. \Ye shall dwell in booths seven day$. that your gl;!herat\ons' ,may kpow that i made the children of Israel dwell in booths when I brought them o.ut. of the land of. Egypt.'' . , There is little doubt that Jews the world over, while celebrating the joyful holidayof Succot,h, wili take time o.ut and once again . pray for peace. : ~1Joub/e Featz.rre- , ... \\·' .. CALLED llORSE -PLUS.~ · · LITTLE BIG MAN T!MJ!:S; Mo.~··TJ!urs HQRS~, 1\iA:N, 9:00; Fri.·Sat; .UQRSE 10:50; ~IG MAN'8:30 THE FILM. OFTHEYEAR THEOAYOF THE .JACKAL. Show Tim~s 1:00~9:30 Tllere will be a meeting of at Davidson in the nort~ wing builders of the succah, tep1ied, Junior Political Science Majors in was formerly the Black Ltbrary. , .. It is i.n times· of war that it is . S.S. 115 at 4:30 on Tuesday, · , · \ -· - . . :\ • ~ ,., ,. J ~) ~ . • ' . Your.hel IIi d·,,_. d' IS·nee·.·e·. - • ISRAEL EMERGENCY FUND Cash, or checks payable to Israel Emergency Fund, will be accepted hy: PROF.· S. BERK - Social Sciences Bldg. LAURA GREENE -~Nqrth Rm. 411 1 ·' B) In a ! which p of the Marchit Macdol1 deserve hewevet Gerty needed. a .powe; For the Garnet point aJ The football hetweer Union 1 mouth ~chool points l Alfre Hoc ken to open fir !if quarter (Charlie fancy I later, Alfre into tl The team c Willian face tw Willian won t! oppone made t to the l It w was th play e~ from· Willi~r p~ti~tfl but we good Friedn lead w the ba dose r; The attack and so penalt~ the sc first h~ wm second soon r kick, t a shot c ,~s, \ I l \~ ,, ~~ ,, ...... .,, ...... ,, ~~ 4' l \ ~ .... ,, \ .. , .. ,, 1 .... I. ~ ..... ~

CONCORDIENSJS, October 12, 1973 Page 7 Garnet Soccer takes Two Ry LEE RIMSKY I hate to say I told you :>o, but. . The Union soccer team is · playing ju:.t as I said it would . great. In the past week they've ric ked U>p tWO overpowering wins; 5-0 mer William~ and 6-2 over Hamilton. and it seems that nothing'::. going to stop them. !)hoto by Kevin Scoles Sandy Wilder and Tom Richardson close in. I he five goal margin of victory 1n the Williams game was quite a ~ll rpri,e. considering that last year William::. beat Union by the :;arne ~core. Union played dose to laJ:Iltless soccer, however, John Alfred downs Union By MARK MlNOEL In a gala halftime performance which proved to be the highlight of the afternoon, the \Hornell Marching 100\ struck up the Macdonald theme song, \You deserve a break today . . -., however it failed to help Coach Gerry Everling's eleven who needed rnore than breaks to beat a powerful Alfred football team. For the fourth straight year the Garnet failed io score a single point against the Saxons. The 25-0 rout in the last football ga·me ever to be played between the two squads leaves Union with a bad aftertaste in its mouth know.ing that the Western :-.chool has rac.ked up the last 90 points ever to be scored. Alfred's kicking specialist Don Hockenberry stroked a 35 : yarder to open the flood gate early in the firsf period, and reserve quarterbacl.; Kris Kristoff hit Bob (Charlie's brother) Young on a fancy 11 yard pass play minutes later, Alfred took the 10\0 advantage into the lockerroom, but only after thwarting . Union\ best ·offensive dri-ve of the year, inside the ten. A long Gary Lauver to Jim Collins pass and run set up Union inside the Saxon twenty, · but Ronnie Westbrook was :-.topped on .a fourth down run. In the third quarter, regular :.ignal caller Tommy Vredenberg hit Greg Thomas on a 31 yard TO pass. Alfred finished its scoring in the ,fourth quarter when Kristoff hit :-.peedy wingback Rick Hansinger on a short pass play which the Alfred flash turned into an 83 yard TD. Alfred then trapped Joe UrscheL for a safety to clC'>se out the scoring. lJ nion suffered three crucial injuries in the game. All-purpose back Dave. Ricks was knocked out in the first period whe11 he :.topped 1000 yard running back Henry By~dak. Union's other defensive back, Jeffy Cuffey wrecked his knee in the game, and Mr. Workhorse, Ron Westbrook, who carried 28 times in the game for 65 yards, came back with bruised ribs. Westbrook, should Frosh Soccer By GARY FEDER The Union freshman soccer team opened its 1973 season at Williams, October 6, and had to face two opponents. One was the Williams freshmen squad, who won the game 3-2; the other opponents were the referees, who made two key bad calls that led to the Dutchmen's defeat. It was obvious that Williams was the better team, controlling play early in the first half. Right from· the opening minute, the Williams offense consistently penetrated into tJ nion territory, but were turned back by some good plays by goalie Joe Friedman. Williams took a 1-0 lead when Union failed to clear the ball, and Williams put in a close range shot. The Dutchmen picked up their attack after the Williams goal, and .soon knotted the score on a penalty kick by Gary Levy, and the score remained tied as the first halfended. · Williams stormed out in the second half, and their pressure· soon paid off, when, off a corner kick, the ball was headed in after a shot hit the post for a 2-1 lead. ~~~~~~i ~STAR LIQUOR f ~ AND WINE ' ~ DISCOUNT ~ \ \ \ ~~ CENTE,R. ~~ ~ \ ~ \ ~~ ''Lowest Legal ~~ :~ p . '' ~~ :. nces ~\' Union managed to come back, and another Levy penalty kick tied up the game. It was here that the referees went into their act. On a play in Union territory, a Williams player hit the ball with Continued on Page 8 Cross Country By CHARLES KELLER Led by Tim Delaney's 27:41.8 minute course record run, the Hamilton CGllege Continentals defeated the Union Cross Country team 16-46. It was H amiiton's 22nd consecutive dual meet victory over the past three years. Sophomore Steve Jones, the first Union finisher, placed fifth with a 28: 17 outing. Through tff'e.first three miles it was a close race. with the - five Hamilton runners leading the pack. In the final two miles the superior conditioning of the Hamilton Continue~ on Page 8 Found one srnaiJ dog wh. approxim~tely 20 lbs. German- Shepherd-Husky. Contact Alpha Delta Phi. Generations~ at least see action against Rochester this weekend. Union's passing game was ~urprisingly strong against Alfred, as Urschel and Lauver combined for 14 completions .in 27 attempts, for 184 yards. AI Gilewicz latched on to 7 aerials to lead the receivers. Although Union has not yet ~cored this season, and Rochester, 2-1, is fresh off a 21-7 victory over Williams, it seems to me an upset is in the making for this Homecoming contest, Union's first home game of the year. Froshball By JON SARGENt The Freshman Football team · dropped their opening game of the season to Albany State Monday, 19-14. In a game marked by numerous early season mistakes by both teams, Albany State opened the ~coring with a TO but failed to add the extra point. It was the only scoring of the first period. The Dutchmen came back in the second quarter to take their only lead of the game. As a result of tough defense, Ken Clough recovered an Albany fumble in the end zone for six points. The conversion was good and the ~core stood at 7-6. Albany State regained the lead, and ended the first half scoring by returning a pass interception ~ixty-one yards for a touchdown. At the half Union was down 12-6. Throughout the game defenses dominated on both sides. The only scoring came as a result of key defensive plays. The Union defense was especially strong in :-..topping a tough wishbone attack. The offenses were rusty, hut the timing should improve as the season progresses. Albany State again scored first in the second half. But Union came right back with the final :.core of the game on a touchdown run by Bob Mathias to make it 19-14. The closing minutes. saw the Dutchmen attempt several comeback efforts all of which fell :-.hort. The next game is at Union, Friday, Oct. 12, with Middlebury at 3 p_m_ Let's see another good crowd! - '•' Dave's. Mens Shop 453 State St. · (downtown Schenectady) Serhetzian ( 2). Craig Jeffries, .I ohn Denio. and Dave Sanderson \\ere the scorers; Jeffries added three as~ist~ and Richard Earl one. Sandy Wilder tllrn.ed In an ..:xcellent defensive effort and halfback Olaf Neilson dominated the m.iddle of the field_ Union broke the .game open early with three goals in the first half. and the o.nly offense Williams could generate against goalie :f'ohn ku~terud wa:s a shot that hir the po~t in t·he :;econd half. !'he script of the Hamilton ·game was written ~ little bit differently, but the final cmtain dropped with the same result, a crushing Union victory. A:fteta l- 1 ~tandoff in the first half. Union finally got rolling and outscored Hamilton five goals to one in the ... econd. Jeffries (2). Mark Brickley (2). Wilder. and St:rhetlian bagged the six goals \\ith assists bv Serhet7ian (2) and .leffrie~.. - llnion':-. record stands unblemished by a loss. 2-0-1. !hey have established themselves a~ a soccer power; and when the ~ew York State rankings come out this week don't be surprised if they're right in the thick of it. Their next match is against a good Hobart team on Saturday at f.2:00, don't miss it. Go out and ~ee for yourself just how good they really are. Berra's Boys QySMILEY The New York Mets are once again on top of the Nati()nal League. I~ took five, nerve- racking games for the Arnazins to dispose of the favored Cincinnati Reds and Eeclaim the pennant which they fir-st won four yeats ago. This victory only reaffirms the , old axiom .of baseball that in a short series, superior pitching rates the edge ovet superior hitting. The lvlets pitching was, as usual, stellar. In the first ba\lgame, the Mets lost with their best on the mound. Tom Seaver, who only days before had complained .of a stiff shoulder, struck out 13 Red s but tired in the late going and yielded home runs to Pete Rose and Johnny Bench. Be11:ch's blast was the game•winner, breaking a 1-l tie in the ninth. Any Met fan would have had to have been disheartened in that despite a fine showing by Sea:ver, the Mets were- able to manage only a single tally off Cincinn:ati's ace. Jack Billingham. The second game turned the series around as the Mets blanked the lt'eds behina ~Jon Matlack's 2 hit shutout. the c:>nly word to describe Matlack was awesome; he yielded but two singles to Andy Kosco in .his nine innings of work. Although held in check by Don Gullett a!kd a core of Cincinnati relievers, the Mets went to the top of the il.inth- ahead 1-0. They then staged a typical rally, consisting of a string of singles, which boC>sted the score to the final of s-o. After splitting the initial' two games in Cincinnati the Mets moved back to Shea Stadium on Monday. Although the lightly regarded Met batters pounded out a 9-2 rout behind lt.usty Staub's two homers and a complete game victory by Jerry Koosman, the game will be remembered for the brawl which broke out in the fifth inning. The incident occurred after Pete Rose, in a futile attempt to ~reak up a double play, took a clleap shot at Bud Harrelson, the Met's 146-lb. shortstop. After Harrelson expressed his displeasure in so many wovds, Rose, by far the bigger of the two, shoved Harrelson and started a fight which emptied .the benches. Rose was greeted in left field by assorted thrown debris which included a whiskey bottle. In the fourth game, Cincinnati bounced back from their humiliating defeat of the previous day to register a 2-1 win in 12 innings. Although the scoring was low, the Mets were in constant trouble over the last few innings, as the Reds started one rally after another which died. In the eleventh inning, only a spectacular catch by Rusty Staub saved the go ahead run from scoring. In the end, it was Monday's villain, Pete Rose, who socked the game winning home run. It appeared as if the Met steamroller had been derailed- The prospects for Wednesday's · game were even bleaker when it was learned that batting hero, Rusty Staub, would he out of action with an i~jured shoulder. On Wednesday, the Mets struck early. They loaded the bases in the bottom of the first and Ed Kranepool, Staub's replacement, lined a two run single to left off Jack Billingham. Tom Seaver allowed the Reds to tie it, but the Mets were never to be headed. In all, the Mets tallied seven runs to only two for the demoralized Reds as Seaver and Tug MacGraw combined for the win. As the game finally ended, the field at Shea, once again became a mass of humanity in a scene reminiscent of 1969. In the end, the much maligned attack of the Mets outshone the vaunted Big Red Machine. In the five games,. New York scored 23 runs to only 8 for the Reds. The \punch and jndy\ hitters of the Mets accounted for almost three times as many runs as their opponents. At this writing, Baltimore and Oakland are on the eve of a deciding fifth game for the American League Championship. The winnder, whoever it may be, will undoubtedly be rated a favorite over New York. Once again, the Mets will be facing a team with a superior offense. The opposing pitching, however, should prove to be almost on a par with the Mets, especially if the World Series opponent is Oakland. Nevertheless, Met fans can be secure in the knowledge that the National League pennant once again flies over Shea. YOUR UNION I.D. CARD IS WO:R1'H 10% MORE AT THE COMPLETE RECORD & TAPE STORE * * * * ~ ~ ~~ ''Free Deliver.v\. ~~ ~ \ ~ ~ ~' r el. 374. -92\85 ,~ * 166 ~ay St. \ :./ r---l i\PEX l\11JSI c: KORNER ; .. ~. * * * ~ . \ ~~ 1142 STATE ST. · ~t t~~\'~'f;\;?b~ ... ~~~~#,J,~~ ,·;· f'nr ll<llll\'>l '->er\ll.:t' And (rood .lewcln , .•. ,. * * HERSHEL ,. I

CONCORDIENSJS, Friday, October 12 1973 Page 7 Garnet Soccer takes Two By LEE 'RIMS I\ Y 1 hate to say I tol'd you so. but. . The Union soccer tearn is playing ju~t as I said it would gn;at. In the past week they've picked up two overpowering wins; 5·4) ln:e.r Williams and &-2 over Hamilton, and it seems that IH>thiti'g·~ goiHg to stop them. photo by Kevin Scoles Sandy Wilder and Tom Richardson close in. I he tive goal rnatgin of victo.ry m the WH'liams game was quite a ~urpri~e. considering that last year William~ beat Urhon by the same ~eote, Union played dose to faJJitle~s soccer. however, John -· Alf·red .d:owns Union ... ' ' \' . - - ' . . - . -- - ,. ' .. -. By MARK .MINDEL In a gala halftime performance which proved to be the· highlight of the .afternoon, the \Horne II Marching 1:00\ struck up th.e Macdonald theme song, \You deserve a break today · . . ..• however it failed to help Coach Gerry Evetling's · eleven who needed more than breaks to beat a .powerful Alfred foetball t~am. For tbe fourth straight year the Garnet failed to sc;ore a single point against the Sal\ofl:s, The 25-0 rout in the last football game ever to be played between the two squad!! leaves Union with a had aftertaste in its mouth knowing that the Western ~chooJ has racl<,ed up the last 90 points ever to be -scored. Alfrect•s kicking specialist Don Hockenberry stroked a 35 : yardet to open the flood gate early in the firsf period, and reserve quarterback Kris Kristoff hit Bob (Charlie's. brother) Young on a fa>ncy Il yard pass play minutes later, · Alfred took the 10-0 advantage into the lockerroom, but only -- after thwarting . Union's best ~)ffensive drive of the year, inside rhe ten. A long Gary Lauver to Jirn Collins pass and n,m tiet up Union inside the Saxon twenty, but . Ronnie . West:brQ.ok was ~topped on a .fourth down run. In the third quarter, reg\llar ~lgnal caller Tommy V Fedenberg hit Greg Thomas on a Jl yard TD pass. · Alfred finished in .scoring in the ~fourth quarter when Kristoff hit ~peedy wingback Ri~ Hansinger on a short· pass. play which the Alfred flash turned into an 83 .Yard TD. Alfr.eci then trapped Joe UFschel for a safety to close out the scoring. at least see a.ctie>n against Rochester this weekend. Vnion's passiQg game was ~.urprisin,gly su:ong.against Alfred. a~; Urschel and Lauver combined for 14 completions. in '2,7 attempts. for 184 yards. AI (iilewicz latched on to 7 aerials to lead the receiven;, Although Union has not yet · ~cored this season, and Rochester, 2-1, is fresh offa 2'J .. 7 victory over Williams, it seems to me aq u,pset is in the making for this HomecomiQg contest, Union's first home ga,me of the year. Py JON SARGEr~n tJ nion suffered three crucial injuries in the game. All-purpose back Dav~ Ricks was knocked out .in the first period when he . Thil Fresh.man F?otl>all team · iltopped f:OOO yard running back dropped thetr opemng game of Henry Byzdak. Union•'s other the season . to Albany State defensive · hack, Jeffy Cuffey Monday, 19-14. wrecked his knee in the game, and In a game marked by numer.o1.1s Mr. Workhorse, Ron Westbrook, ea·rly season. mistakes by both who carried 28 times in the .game teams, Albany State opened the for 65 yards, came back with ~coring with a TD but failed to bruised ribs. Westbrook, should add the extra point. It was the only ~coring of the fir~t period. Frosh Soccer The Dutchmen came back in the second quarter to take their only lead of the game. As a result of tough ·defense, Ken Clough recovered an Albany futnble in the end zone for six points. The conversion was good 1\nd the ~core stood at 7-6. By GARY FEDER lhe Uniort. freshman soccer team opened its 1973 season at William!'>, October 6, and had to face two opponertts .. One was the Williams fr-eshmen squad, who / won the game J-2; the other opponents were the referees, who made two key bad calls that led to the Dutchmen's defeat. It was obvious that Williams was the better team; controlling play early in the first half. Right from · t11e opening minute, the Williams offense consistently ' penetrated into Union territory, but were tt1rned back ' by some good plays by goalie Joe Friedman. Williams took a 1-0 lead when Union failed to clear the ball, and Willia'ms put in a dose range shot. The Dutchmen picked up their attack after the Williams goal. and soon knotted the $core oil a penalty kick by Gary Levy, and the score remained tied as the first half ended. ' Williams stormed out in the second half. and their pressure· soon paid off, when. off a c-o.rner kick, the ball was head-ed in after a shot hit the .post for a 2-llead. Union managed to come pack, and another Levy .penalty kick tied up the game. It was here that the referees went into their act. On a play in Union tetritoty, a Williams player hit the ball with Continued. OJl Page 8 Cross Country 'By CHARLES KELLER Led by Tim Delaney's 27:41.8 n'tin!Jte course record.- run, the Hamilton Cojlege Continentals defeated the Union Cross Country team 16-46. It was Hamilton's 22nd consecutive dual meet victory over the past three years. Sophomore Steve Jones, the first Union fifiisher, 'Placed fifth with a 28:17 outing. Through t!fe.first three miles it was a close . . race. with the- five Hamilton runners leading the pa~;k. ln the llmll two rniles the superior conditioni,ng of the Hamilton Continue~ on Page 8 Albany State regained the lead, and ended the first chalf ~coring by returning a pass interception ~ixty~one yards for a touchdown. At the half Union was down 12-6. Throt~ghout the game defenses dominated on both sides. The only scoring came as a result of key defensive plays. The Union defense was especialiy strong in iltepl)ing . a tough wishbone attack. The offenses were rusty, out the timing should improve as the season progresses. Albany State again scored first in the set:ond half. But Urtion came tight hack with the final ~core of the .game on a touchdown run by· Bob Mathias to make it 19-14. The closing minutes. saw the Dutchmen attempt several comeback efforts all ofwhkh fell ~hort, The next game is at Union, Friday. Oct. 12, with Middlebury at J p.m. Let's see another good crowd! 1.evrs ~erbetzian (2). Ctaig Jeffries, John Denio. and Dave Sanderson \lere the scorers; ..Jeffr.ies added three as~i!o;b and Richard E&tl one. Sa·ndy Wilder rurned in an excellent defensive effort and halfback Olaf Nells.on domina·ted the m.iddle .of the field. Union hmkc the .game open ,early with thtee goals in the first half. and t,he only offense Williams could generate <J,gainst goalie John Busterud was a shot that hit the pmt in the second half. !\he ~cript of the Hamilton ·g.ame was written a !little bit ·differently, but the finai curtain d~opped with the same .result, a crushing U niort victory. Aftel,' a 1~ I standoff in the :fir,st half. Union linally got rolling and outscored Hamilton five goals to one in the 'econd. Jeffries ( 2). Mark Brickley ( 2).. Wilder. and Serhet7ian b<:~gged the siK goals ,\itil asliisls. hy Serhet7iari ( 2). and Jeffrie~ .. Pnlon's rec('Jrd stands ,unblemished bv a loss, 2-0-L !\hey have established themselves a~ a soccer power; and when the f\ew York State rankings rome out this week don't be surprised if they're right In the thick of it. Their next match is Q.gainst a good Hobart team on Saturday at 12:00; don't miss it. Go out and l>ee fo.t yourself just how good they really are. Berra's Boys llySMJLEY The New York Mets aie once again on top of the National League. It took five. ilel'Ve- r:ackiQg games for the Amazins to disp.ose of the favored Cincinnati Re(ls and reclaim the pennant wn.ich they first won tout years ago. This victory only reaffirms the • old axiom of baseball that in a short series, superior pitching rates the edge over superior hitting. The Mets pitchi11gwas, as usual, stellar. In the first ballgame, the Mets lost :with their . best on the mouud. Tom Seaver~ who only days before had complained of a stiff shoulder, struck qut l3 Reds but tired in the late going :and yielded home runs to Pete Rose and Johnny Bench. Bench's blast was the gatne~winner., breaking a I-1 tie in the ninth. Any Met fan would have had to have been disheartened in that d!'!spite a fine showing by Seaver, the Mets were~ able to manage only a single tally off Cincinnati's ace. Jack Billingham. The second game turned the series around as the Mets blanked the RedS· -'behind ·Jon Matlack's 2 hit shutout. lhe only word to describe Matlack was awesome; he yielded but two singles·to Andy Kosco in his nine innings of work. Although held in check 'by Don Gullett and a core of Cincinnati relievers, the Mets went to the top of the nintlY ahead 1.0. They then staged a typical rally, consisting of a string of singles, which boosted the score to the final of 5-0. After splittipg the initial tWo games in Cincinnati the Mets moved back to She~t Stadium on Monday. :Although the lightly regarded Met batters pounded out a 9.:2 rout behind Rusty Staub's two .homers and a complete game victory by Jerry Koosman, the game will be remembered for the brawl which broke out in the flfth inning. The incident occurred after Pete Rose, in a futile attempt to break up a d<)Uble play, took a cheap shot at Bud Harrelson, the Met's 146-1 b. short stop. After Harrelson ex pressed his displeasure in so many words, Rose, by far the bigger of the two, shoved Harrelson and started a fight which emptied the benches. Rose was greeted in left field by assorted thrown debris which included a wbisl<eV bottle. In the fourth game, Cincinnati bounced back from their humiliating defeat of the previous d~y to register a 2-1 win in 12 innirtgs. AlthOugh the scoring was low, the Mets were in constant trouble over the last few innings, as the Reds started one rally .after another which died. ln the eleventh inning. only a spectacular catch by Rusty Staub saved the go ahead run from scoring~ In the end, it was Monday's villain, Pete Rose, who socked the g11rne winning home run. It appeared as if the Met steamroller had been derailed. The prospects for Wednesday's · game were even bleaker when it was learned that . batting hero, Rusty Staub, would be out of action with an injuted shoulder. On Wednesday, the Mets stwck early. They loaded the bases in the bottom of the first and Ed Kranepool, Staub's replacement, lined a two run single to left off Jack Billingham. Tom Seaver allowed the Reds to tie it, but the Mets were never to be headed. In all, the Mets tallied seven runs to only two for the demoralized Reds as Seaver and Tug MacGraw combined for the win. As the game .finally ended, the field at Shea, once again became a mass of humanity in a scene reminiscent of 1969. In the ertd, the much maligned attack of the Mets outshone the vaunted Big Red Machine. In the five games, New York scored 23 runs to only 8 for the Reds. The \punch and judy\ hitters of the Mets accounted for almost three times as many runs as their opponents. At this writing, Baltimore and Oakland are on the eve of a deciding frlth g!ltne for the American League Championship. The winnder, whoever it may be, will Undoubtedly be rated a favorite over New York. Once again, the Mets will be facing a team with a superior offense. The opposing pitching, however, should prove to be altnost on a par with the Mets, especially if the World Series opponent is Oakland. Nevertheless, Met fans can be secure in the knowledge that the National League pennant once again flies over Shea. YOUR U~ION I.D, CARD IS WORTH 10% MORE AT THE COMPLETE RECORD & TAPE STORE ,. i

PageS CONCORDIEN§IS, Friday, October 12, 1973 Here's what's happening every night of the week at the Varsity Inn: MONDAY AND TUESDAY-Free Nights No admission. Kingsize drinks regularly priced. WEDNESDAY-Daily Double Two shots for a dollar. Only 50¢ admission. THURSDAY ~Beer B.last Admission guys $2.00, girls $1 .00. Free beer all night. FRIDAY AND SATURDAY-Anything Goes Nights Admission $1.00. Continuous music from 9 p.m. to 3 a.m. SUNDAY-Appreciation Night Only 50¢ admission. Wrap up the weekend at the V.I. 'Urbt lJarsttp lfnn 255 New Karner Rd. Colonie Doyle Returns Mik~ Doyle, a standout in Union history. He also pulled basketball player· for Union down 704 rebout<lds. College the past three years,. will The 22~year-old 'Doyle capped return to his a:lma rpater as his varsity career last spring by assistant coach in that ·sport this leading Union to the winter. championship in the first Eastern Doyle, who received his degree College Athletic Co.nference in History la.st June, will assist\· Upstate New York Tournament. first-year head ' coach Bill He was named Most Valuable Scanlon and will coach the Player in that four-team Union freshman team. tournament. The . Schenectady native and Doyle is the sop of Mr. and former Linton H.S. performer Mrs. Thomas F. Doyle of 1111 started ev.ery game in xhis three- McClellan St., Schenectady. year varsity career at Union. Over that span. the Dutchmen won 53 while losing only 13 games. Known principally fo:r his defense and rugged rebounding as a player, Doyle still managed to score 922 poi·nts in his three years, the fifth highest point total To · the Editor: I was very disappointed to read . the article concerning the Alfred . football game in the last· Concordy. W)roever wrote the article (it had no byline) could not find one positive thing to say about the varsity team. Instead of giving them encouragement as they faced a tough rival, this person chose instead to cut them down, and said, \Good luck... you're· going to need it.\ What kind of attitude is this for someone on the Concordy staff? . Is this typical of the Union spirit? I'm disappointed ·in that person's attitude, and I hope\' a lot of people feel differently. Good luck to the football team: You're a young team and you have a lot to look forward to. Sincerely, Kurt Schumann * * * * from preceding page team proved to be too much for the Union squad. It should also he noted that while Union started their season with this meet, Hamilton had raced four previous times. Coach Ted Bick was more than pleased with the performance of his team. It was his observation that the runners' times were excellent for this early point in the season. The team is prepared for this Saturday's outing with Trinity and hopes to be on the ~hort end of the score, so as to even its record. · Boots from preceding page his hand, but the referees did not make a call. About half a minute later, Williams' scored the winning goal when a shot deflected off Friedman's shoulder into the net. Had the referees called the penalty. Union would have taken possession of the ball, and Williams might not have scored. The Dutchmen tried The attitude expressed in the football article may have seemed . desperately to tie the score again, too harsh and uncalled for by ·. but again fell victim to a bad call many people but it was definitely by the refs. Williams had an not an expression of lack of spirit attack, but one player was or ;nthusiasm for the Varsity · offsides by ten yards. Everyone watching saw · the play squad. everyone except the refs. Luckily, l want the Team to play up to Williams did not score on the its potential and possibly win a play but the bad call left Onion few games as much as you or frustrated as they then put little anyone else does. pressure on the Williams goalie. However, our approaches to When Union coach Bill Scanlon :-eeing these things come to pass asked the ref why he didn't make are quite different. An article the call, the official said the sun could have been printed patting was in his eyes, even though the everyone on the back and saying play took place away from the good try and all the rest, and sun. everyone would be happy. This In their second game of the would be okay except that this season, October 9 at home. the makes everyone too self~satisfied Dutchmen put together a better in just trying. There has got to be offensive attack, and pulled out a more to this game and that 1-l tie with Oneonta. something is called emotion. · Neither squad scored in the College football is a game of first half. Union again was led by emotion as opposed to the more Friedman's good play. and an all matter-of-fact approach in around strong defense. In the professional football. second half, the Dutchmen There should be more emotion showed the hustle and movement in the game so it wasn't my intent that had been lacking in their to encourage the anyone on the first game. Still, Oneonta tallied team. I wanted instead to make · first when they intercepted a players mad: Mad at the paper, at pass, and put the ball past goalie themselves, or anybody. One Jim Felix. who had replaced mu~t admit that it worked, Friedman at the half. although unfortunately, the.paper Once again, Union had to didn't come out until the bus was come back, which they did. With half way to Alfred. The Team did less than five minutes left in the however, play a very fine game game, Keith Gaspard blasted a against a tough and well direct kick past the Oneonta disciplined Alfred Squad. goalie. I wi~h that any additional fury (~~;£ will be saved for Homecoming ~~ ST. Aft LIQUOR ~~ and Rochester this weekend. ~~ •' I would hope though that this , . approach would not dampen the · I fans' spirit for the game, even in a losing cause. This coming weekend especially. I think that regardless of how good or bad the Team is, the throngs of people will still come to the game and have a fine . time as they should. I'm sure the Team will play its best to show us what they can do on the field and they have my full support. Still though. a little anger and · emotion never hurt anyone in a football game and ifs not about to. \ ~ . ~ ~ AND WINE DISCOUNT CENTER \Lowest Legal Prices\ \' ~ ~ v As the continuing Forum pres \Dissent Society\ Ia Social Scit were Profs H·istory; Philosoph) Wernette, S Carlile,. Soc Charles M. Science. Profs. \\ spoke first, of dissent. Wells' apj)r• historical p4 dynamic pr various t: [ by The Unic in an effm passed by t spring, he!< October 15 packs of de campus ar organic fe such unli Compute dormitorie~ resolved b~ to halt the permits for involves a program • campus. The law enforced ac the Dog minimum: The on!: presently dogs regis1 (cat OWJieJ include th1 dog that is master on may not b1 unaccomp; permitted that provi facilities, Center or A dog c regularly violating ~pokesma1 catcher ha the line o presence c Once impounde· five days the anima payment 1 well as a1 dog cour their can should Applic H. Le Fellowsb Public Interna.1 availablE office. , should 1 as pos Fellowst for up graduah doctora approve. York St open t< llnited · re$idenc

Vol. 103, No. 4 Friday, October 1'), 1973 lRA Secr~tary to. S~eak Focus On Dissent As th(; first offering in a continuing !!eties the Political Forum presented a discussion on \Dissent in Contemporary Society\ last tuesday night in Social Sciences 016. Speaking were Profs. Robert V. · Wells, History; Robert Baker, Philosophy; Oee Richard Wernette, Sociology; Franklin R. Carlile,. Sociology; and moderator Charles M. Tidmarch, Political Science. Profs. Wells and Baker who spoke first, developed the concept of dissent. Em{J'hasized •in Prof. Wells' approach was the theme of historical perspective. Dissent is a dynamic process ch&racterized by various types of short-.term by ANNE GEMM.ELL events, but the importance of these events lies in their long\'term ' influence on the e:volution of dissent. Prof. aa·ker in turn enlarged on the idea of dynamic dissent. He maintained that the. American liberal tr~tdition is tolerant of the concept of dissent but incredibly. intolerant of promulgation of alternative life-styles, Dissent as an action was the focus of Prof. Wernette's presentation. His principal concern rested with dissent as represented in social movements, their oq~anization., goals, successes, aird failures. The point of whether dissenters define their goals· in terms of acceptance w i t hi n t he s y s t e m wa:s subsequently debated by Profs. Baker and Wernette. Finally, Prof. Carlile spoke on the importance of the mode of dissent within conte01porary society. He maintained that dissent, as communication b::y the use of the mass media, demands the integration of both the concept and the action of dissent. While no consensus on the definition of dissent was exposed at this particular panel discussion, the scope of the problem of dissent was revealed and enlar.ged. The next spea:ker in the Political Forum's series on dissent wili be Sean Kenny, International Secretary of the' Irish Republican Army, on Wednesday, October 24 in SS 016 at 8 P.M. lOeents Photo .by Bill Erichson Winners of the Tour de Union on October 14 were, left to right Chip Murphy, Dick Samuels, Ted Blandy and Paul Ferguson. Steve Rhinehart (center) presented the oward to the jubilant victors. Dog Issue Again by BILL TALIS Security to see if their animal has been impounded.. Dogs who are not claimed within five days will either he sold or put to sleep. Union'~ own ·Campus Security is paying the Dog Catcher $1200 per year to perform his duty. Security will be reimbursed by fines collected by the dog court. Lichterman Comments The Union College Dog Court, in an effort to clarify the laws passed by the College Senate last spring, held an open meeting on October 15. The controversy over packs of dogs roaming about the campus and an abJmdam;e of organic fertilizer deposited in such unlikely~ places as the Computer~ Center and dormitories, was not fully resolved by tfie Senate's decision to halt the issuance of registration permits for animals. The decision involves a three-year phase-out program of all animals from campus. The law, which will be strictly enforced according to members of the Dog Court, involves a minimum $50 fine for violations. The only animals allowed presently on campus are those dogs registered as of last spring (cat owners beware!). Violations include the apprehension .of ariy dog that is not on a leash with his master on the other end. Dogs may not be tied to trees, or be left unaccompanied. Dogs are not permitted in any area on campus that provides dining or kitchen facilities, nor in the Computer Center or science labs. A dog catcher v.isits the campus regularly to pick up dogs violating the law. A reliable >pokesman stated that the dog catcher has already been bitten in the line of duty as proof of his presence on the campus grouQds. Once a do'g has been impounded, its owner has only five days with which to reclaim the animal, which would involve a payment to the animal shelter as well as any fine imposed by the dog court. Students who find their canine company missing should check with Campus Applications for the Herbert H. Leh·man Graduate Fellowships in Social Sciences, Public Affairs, or lnterna.tional A-ffairs al'e .• available in Dean Lichterman's office. AU s~niors intt!rested should pick them up as soon as possible. The Lehman Fellowships provide awards for up to four, years of ~raduate study leading to the doctoral degree . in any approved university in New York State. The competition is open to any citizen of the llnited States, regardless of · residence. Petitions are circulating around campus urging the Senate to reconsider its decision not to issue any further registrations; While it is still too early to see the effects of that decision, there are signs that the Senate may let Man's Best Friend have a second chance, for the matter will most probably be . brought up on the agenda within the next few weeks. Several critical issues are raised by the law as it ,presently stands. First, it is unclear whether a visitor or an off-campus student may bring a dog onto campus grounds. Second, because only registered dogs are allowed on campus, the status of research rats in the Psychology Department is jeopardized. Third, it is hoped that the law will result in diminished quantities of dog feces on the campus grounds. But, as one Union student observed, \The lawns looked much greener last year.\ Finally, certain members of the dog court, officially titled, \The Court of Pets and Parking\ would like to see the name changed to the \Court of Parking and Petting.\ by JUDY D.ElN Looking up the .exact wording in the catalogue, Martin Lichman explained that his title is \Dean of the Faculty\ _at Union College. The position places him in charge of all the undergraduate academic programs in the school. As Dean of the Faculty, he serves on many school committees, including Curricular< Affairs Committee; Promotion Salary and Tenure Committee and the new Presidenes Consultation Committee which determines how many tenured openings there will be in the next three years. Tenure The tenure debate caused much controversy on campus during the past few years. A maximum of 60% of each department is allowed to be ten.ured. Union was finding itself in a positi()n of losing excellent teachers simply because they could not be offered tenure as their department's quota was filled. The result of the tenure debate was a new program which offere9 teachers who taught during the probationary six-year period and were qualified to remain but who could not be offered tenure. contracts for three to five years. The normal contract is for five years, unless the department has a great deal of curricular enrollment turnover. This This Saturday, Oct. 20, the Union ·College Coffeehouse will present Bill Staines, Evolution recording artist. Join us in Old Chapel at 8:30 P.M. for an evening of fine music; fancy pickin' and classic yodeling. Also appearing will be Union student Dennis Burstein situation exists in the Engineering Department, where enrollment dropped considerably a few years ago, and is now once again on the rise. Excellent Faculty Lichterman had notlimg but praise for the faculty at Union College. The school has, he feels, a wide variety of faculty and each department is strong and productive. He singled out the Political Science Dept. as having the best undergraduate program in the United States. Praise was not lacking for the other departments in the school as well. Dean Lichterman conceded that the job market for teachers is very tight. He feels, however, that Union is choosing only the best faculty available. Since Union competes for the most qualified teachers with other high-ranking schools, Lichterman was of the opinion that teachers who do come here want to teach in the small school atmosphere. While the job market is tight, good faculty is in demand. Therefore the faculty here continues to be one interested in the personal development of the students. The faculty also consists of many known in their field throughout ~he country. There is a lack of unity among faculty. This, however, seems to be common among all liberal colleges' faculties. The rift conies from the idea that people in the. social sciences often feel that they· have little in common with, for example, an engineer. This is unfortunate and untrue according to the Dean. He feels that the time has come when engineers must be able to deal with the politics of society, and those in the social sciences must be able to deal with the basic analytical parts of science. This is why the , trans-disciplinary programs are so ! appealing. They offer students a wide field of knowledge covering both the natural and social sciences. Faculty Salaries Although Unton boasts an excellent faculty, it cannot claim to have a h\ghly-.paid one. Dean Lichterman, comparing the ' salaries of Union faculty to the faculties at the State Universities of N.Y. which use the salary and fringe-benefit scale set up by American Association of University Professors ( AA UP), explained that Assistant Professors at Union earn approximately S3.000 less than their peers at SUNY; Associate Professors earn ~4,000 . less at Union, and Full Professors earn up to $7,000 less per year. Increase in salaries of the faculty is an important issue now facing. the school.. In rec~nt years the rate of increase in salaries has not even kept up with inflation. Student Body Although the Dean of the Faculty is not directly involved with students per se, Dean Lichterman does come into personal contact with many who serve on committees with him. He has seen a trend towards the social sciences since Union went coed. He feels, however, that this trend began before the enrollment of girl's. At this point, enrollment in Center I and Center II is about even. This is the goal of Union. There is no quota to the number of girls admitted, as a quota will soon he illegal for Union (since it has been coed for 4 years already, and is fairly well-established). The only restriction used in admission is the one which tries to keep Engineering arid Physical Science enrollment large, so as to keep Center I and Center II equal. This limits the number of girls admitted since girls, to date, continue to stay away from the Engineering Department. This type of quota is not illegal. Dean Lichterman feels that girls should take advantage of the majors offered in Center II. The Dean still sees racial tension existing on campus. While blacks constitute a small percentage of the student body, there is a trend toWards strong · self-consciousness and pride. This is also true among the Jewish students who constitute a larger percentage of the school population. The only unfortunate consequence of the movements toward self-consciousness is that they often lead to separatism. Whereas Dean Lichterman feels that the idea behind the melting pot theory is wrong, and all people should not give up their heritage to fit the mold which is commonly -known as the ideal American, he does feel that all racial and ethnic groups should retain a feeling of unity with each other. The trend towards separatism is a sad and harmful movement.

Page2 CONCORDIENSIS, Friday, October 19. 1973 Opinion: Those Union Blues Union has a morale problem. It can be seen in the student body, the faculty, and the administration. There is a kind of sluggishness in the student body, a sense that Union is a four-year process rather t•han a constructive segment ·of life. Consequendy, much of the student body buries itself in its academic work. The end result of this tendertcy is the formation in lJnion students of what I call the Union Blues. \ by _PAN MILEY junior year, they tend to cheer up a little, although the solitude and unhappiness of sophomore year may leave a legacy; periods of isolationism. Senior year . is ba~ically ;;1 downhill proposition, once the grad schools let you know, the pressure is off. The first two year~ are the critical ones. From a junior who endured an impressively devastating attack of the Union Blues last year, maybe some recommendations carr help: I. Academics are important, but they probably make up only half of your college education. The people you meet and the aqjustments you have to make are the greater part of your education. Don't make the library and slide rule supreme. 2. Worship of the Cume is hazardous to your rnental health. 3. The people you see around you, including your roommate, have the same problems you do. A little genuine. communication can help everyone. Don't let the food get you down. It's really fairly good. After three years of it, I'm still alive. 5. take an interesUn what goes on around the College. Concerts, Coffeehouses, and club activities can make life a little more interesting. 6. Get out of the room on Friday night. The books can wait. But don't feel that you have to have a date. Free-form socializing is nice, too. 7. Get out and see the rest of the school, Even closed ... living organizations li'ke fraternities are happy to take you in, so don't be shy. ~ S. Make an effort to know the people on your floor. A little floor spirit is a good thing. 9. People are basically nice, if you a.pproach them right. That includes students,,_ faculty, and administrators. · 10. Don't be afraid to smile. What are the Union Blues? Let us examine an immaginary student's four years at school. The first year, he (or she) arrives at school with a very idealistic view of what college will be like. This view is started in High school, as our future freshmim becomes increasingly bored with the high !>chool environment. It is further' nourishe~ by the whole SAT I Achievement's! Applications procedure that adds a larger-than- life aura to college. As a result, when our freshman shows up here, he is not prepared for the envirortment he is entering. He is also on his own for the first time. And the work load is heavier and more difficult than anything he A Modest Proposal* by CHRIS O'CONNOR has run into before. It seems lately that a Union L·etter to the Editor. Socially, he is far from student can do nolhing right. We comfortable. His home-town are bombarded with accusations honey writes him, and calls him of apathy, unfriendliness, sometimes, but the distance factor excessive throating, and just puts a heavy strain on the about everyting else that could relationship. Male freshmen tend possibly be wrong with students To the Editor: An investigation was made recently of Campus Security. There is no doubt that a lot of time and effort went into the investigation and no argument as to how many times each of the criticisms -was verified; however, in an investigation of this sort it would seem, that the one or ones being investigated, should be given an opportunity to give an explanation as to why the condition exists. It is common knowledge that Union, just as many other institutions of learning, does not have an infinite supply of working capital, therefore Campus Security is called upon to extend t ~.:mselves beyond their normal duties. The following is a list of duties of Campus Security, some routine, some unscheduled. Some were mentioned in the investigation, some were not but nowhere in the printed report was the frequency with which these un~cheduled duties are performed, and apparently no effort made in this direction. One of the time-consuming nightime duties is an insurance regulation requiring use of the Detex Clock (referred to as Key Wind). At this time seventeen buildings are involved. T h e r e i s e m e r g e nc y transportation of students from the College Infirmary to or from Ellis Hospital or a doctor's office. There are calls to re-set fire- alarm systems (99% or more of which are false alarms). ate overloaded. to get crowded out by upper at a \small liberal a_rts school\ h \ di:tssmen for the resident females. (somewhere near Schenectady'.). T ere are calls to let students Female freshmen get too much Wht'le admt'ttt'nCI that the into dorm rooms. (Keys locked at·tentt'on t'f they're good ·looki'ng, . . \' · ·d ) alleged deficiencies of the average msi e.· h\ h b f · d w 1c can e con usmg, an too Union student are too great for Other duties include turning on little if their looks are not eye- one man to handle, 1 would like Campus lights at night, securing catch·t·ng. h bl ft\ th b \Jd' d · h to urn· y 0 1er a .s[\ggestion · e Ul mgs an reopenmg t em But fresh.men can have an h' h · h · · w 1c could deal effectively with 10 t e mornmg, checkmg boilers enio:uable year. The experience is I f h and chillers for maintenance on ~ :1 at east some o t e problems. the weekends, keeping an eye out new and challenging, they do In _particular, I propose to deal for Townies or trespassers while meet new people, and it's good to with two issues: the so-called 'lack d f be away from home. So, a good of a sense-of-community' at on uty, tra fie duty for social fre\hman- year 1 ·s normal. u · f f Th 1 r·t\ \ \ mon, and a related problem: the unc IOns. ey a so 0 .er the Sophomore y\\a·r .I·s the kt\ller. · · t f d · · f \ poor socml hfe at our College on cour esy 0 nvmg emale This is the year of The Question; the Moh~wk vale. Allow me to ~tudents across campus at night if \Why am 1 here?'' Many peo. pie I' h they so desire. Then the out me t ese problems briefly, Pack up their stereos and go before I explai·n my prop ·d undesirable job of ticketing · ose illegally parked' cars; this of home during their sophomore ~olution. course where there are more and y_e_a_r._O•n•c•e-t·h-ey--ge_t .. _i_n..,i,to-\\th•e•ir ... _ .. T•h•e...,;,h.a ... l.lo•w•e·d-•pa.,;g.,e..,s_o_f_t•hrris more cars with · less and less , · parking area. .. Mention was madein Concordy of the one man in charge of fire prevention facilities. There are approximately 40 buildings that he is responsible for in checking the alarm systems and maintammg fire fighting equipment. (Extinguishers). Did anyone take the time to find out how many times in a ~chool year many of these extinguishers have to be refilled and replaced in some dorms where it is known there was no fire-fighting done? (Water- fighting, yes.) This is ridiculous and cannot be termed anything else, hy one who is interested in the Union Community. It is true the Security Force is small, but there is so much that -could be done by interested members of the community that would leave Security more time for security. CONCORDJENSIS wunded at Union College in 1877 We really needed a break and, from what we've heard, so did you. So. we have decided to go back to a time when the Chairman of the Board of Trustees ' Samuel Fortenbaugh was edit.Qr of Concordiensis. The middle pages of this issue are filled with some of Mr. Fortenbaugh's best efforts. Union is truly an institution with a past and some of it, as you will undoubtedly realize if you read this 1922 issue of Concordy, is unbelievable. Com~ordiensis is published every Friday during the school If community is what is wished r------------ for then all members should work II SNAPPY Ill fo~~t~e wished for more foot There are calls to re-set circuit breakers in dorms where outlets year except during examination and vacation periods by the student body of Union College, Schenectady, N.Y. National Advertising -Representative: National Educational Advertising Service. Inc ... NYC. Editorial office, Old Gym Hali, Union College. Publication office, The Jewish World Publications, 77 I State Street. Schenectady, New York. 12307 (346-2356). Entered in the Schenectady .post office as Second Class Mail Matter. Subscription rate: 20 cents a copy, 8 dollars a y~ar delivered anywhere in the United States. Deadline for all cepy, which must be TYPED AN'D DOUBLE SPACED. is 7 p.m. on Tuesday at the Concordiensis office, located third floor Carnegie. patrol. In view of the fact there I M. E . I are but two men on duty at most I . · N 'S S H 0 pI times and they are called for I · I emergencies from Silliman Hall I . I plus the fact that it is difficult to I TO UNION MEN: I answer the fire alarms soon I I enough to please, as it is, foot I 5 01£ I patrol seems out of the question. I I . o· II Mel· Kilgore Campus Security I I I Discount With This Ad I { ... ~ -~~ I \Schenectady's I ~ISABELL\! ,S ! 1 Largest Men's Store\ 1 F & H Pharmacy I Hrs. 9:30-S:oo I 527 UNION ST I Th. 9-9:30 .• . • L--~~!!!.~!:..., __ j · Phone 370-2300 The office phone number is 370-6155, but the office is in use only on Monday and Thursc;lay nights. FOR ALL EDITORIAL MATTERS CALL THE EDITOR-IN-CHIEF AT 370-6126, FOR INFORMATION CALL MRS. MARRA IN THE STUDENT ACTIVITIES OFFICE AT 370-6118. . Moffett's Liquor Store 1505 VanVranken Ave. Schenectady, New York 12308 -ADD TO YOUR EDUCATION- -LEARN MORE ABOUT WINES- Join Our WINE TASTING CLUB No Admissions Charge- No Requirements Ea~h D?onth we sel~ct a.different wine to be tested: There is a card describing the wme 1n great detail so you can learn about it. On ·this card there is a picture of the label so you can remember the wine· in the future to impress your date when yoq,dine out ur ~irnply want a good bo~tle of wine. . newspaper have . recen•tly highlighted the 'sense-of- community' problem. Union students don't relate to each other, to the faculty, ot to the administration. In their inevitable pursuit of the almighty cumula- tive index, they become cold, impersonal creatures of academic habit. This is not the ideal to which this College wa.s dedicated, say the critics. The second problem I mentioned relates closely to the first, for the deadness of Union's s0cial calendar is often blamed on this archetypical - Union throat I student. These, then, are the problems we face; I apologize to the reader for delaying so long in outlining my solution. My suggestion is as follows: PROPOSAL: The College ::.hould install coin-operated prophylactic dispensers in each and every men's room on campus. The cynics may not immediately see the logic in this idea, but I hope to justify the proposal on the following grounds. If the College truly is suffering from a lack of communal spirit. what better way to get people tog.ether? Union students, engrossed in idyllic love (free instruction courtesy Prof. Lambert's Comp. Ed!!!), would once again become the warm, friendly folks that once upon a time brought a twinkle to the ~yes of old Eliphalet Nott. This proposal, of course, would solve the problem of establishing a !>Qund co-ed commu:nity, but it would also encourage better feelings among the sexes. Male students, in the same spirit of friendly competition fhat made this country great, whould grow closer to each other by the attempt to out-perform one another. The use of the new multi-colored brands would also provide stimulating morning-after conversation for the ladies.. In addition, enough money would be raised, in a very short t'itne, to fill the Social Committee's schedule with top-notch rock groups for years to come. 1 n short, then, this is the only logical solution to the pressing problems that Union faces today: why not give-it a try to see if it holds water? * Apologies to Jonathan Swift! * * * * Notice to commuter students:~ !here will be a meeting Thursday, October 25th at 12;30 p.m. in the Richmond basement lounge for all commuters interested in converting the lounge to a commuter lounge an<l overnight room. Miss Kilgus, Director o( Housing, will be there. Reac 1\L •. ,w· . ' ... VOLUMI -.-- ---·· Gar ] U:1.ion. t The l' Saturday af in one oi th Chadwick ~ and ahout t tral iield. Hoban tr> gain am teams liner! meet Hoha FRESH I JOIN Bill Hare String: ner W Frosh j The can' ball report >it!' ~quad year the f are to be ' tem so t'h can be us quintet. coach the ner ''\ill in Hardman Accordit are son1c of 1926. played pa· ;..[akofski, of last yc probahilit) will he u, ;;oon as tl So far · only with Harold S ~crin1tnag, day aftrrt for the fit of prac tic The :-d time this against !- Tea•hers. in 1 ht· alt The fol var,o.ity sc clre\' '· L• Sandrrsp1 Faber, Dodd, Lo on the f, out for l week aft present t eel of G. C' ord, l Tryon, Jo Affin l At thE society, nnion, tr decision that the fied to 1 and bee

.I j. I ' Page6 As Jews across America began observance of Yom Kippur, the Day of Atonement on Saturday, October 6th, word spread across this country and the world that war had broken out again between Egypt, Syria, and Israel. This most recent outbreak of war propitiously began at a time when Israelis were least prepared to rebuff an attack. Prayer and fasting, and instrospection on the ~ins one has committed in the past are the occupations of Jews on Yom Kippur, the holiest of days. . On this day instead, Israeli army units were mobilized to repulse army units of Egypti~ns who had crossed the Suez Canal into the Sinai, and Syrians who had entered the Golan Heights. Solidarity Rally To show support for the Israelis, a solidarity rally was held on this campus Monday night October 8th. The turnout at the rally was somewhat disappointing, according to Laura Greene, Chairwoman of the Israel Emergency Fund of Union College. Approximately 185 attended, including St\ldents, administrators and faculty. War is never a particularly pleasant affair. Yet, the Israelis are determined to fight, to fight literally for their survival. The memory of the Holocaust and the death of six million of their brethren hangs like a dark ::.hadow over the Israelis. They are determined not to let the whole- ::.ale slaughter of their people and their culture occur again. And they are determined not to forget all those who have died for the independence of Israel. According to historY. professor Stephen Berk, speaking at the rally, this war will cost the Israelis an extra one billion dollars a week to run their country. As the Israelis drain money from other areas of their economy to support 'the war, funds are still needed to provide food, medical supplies and other social services to the people. Without these funds to aid the social services, Israel will he financially as well as morally crippled. Money was solicited at Monday's rally, and is still being solicited, not to buy weapons, but for food, medical care, and other I ife necessities. Those who wish to aid Israel in this time of emergency may contact Prof. Stephen Berk of the History department or Laura Greene, Chairwoman of the Israel Emergency Fund of Union College at 377-9867, According to Prof. Berk the fund drive was very successful, but the need is ~till great. Petitions showing that all Americans as well as Jewish Americans support the Israeli cause were distributed and signed hy those who attended this rally. These petitions are addressed to members of Congress, to the President, and to embassies of nations which are either anti- hrael or have not acknowledged support either pro-or con-Israel. The Mid East War Since the surprise attack on , Yom Kippur morning the Israelis realized that this war would not he a repeat performance of the '67 war. Egyptian forces that crossed the Suez Canal had better equipment, were better trained and outnumbered the Israelis considerably this time. The Syrian forces on the Golan Heights, according to New York Times reports, outnumbered Israeli forces ten-to-one, 850 Syrian tanh were to have crossed the cease-fire line of '6 7. Staging a massive mobilization nf their re~crvc forces, the Israelis .. ought first to contain the Arab military advances According to Prof. Hcrk of the History Jcpar1ment. these first 24 houn;- 1\ c r c \ 1.' r u ci <l l \ t o t h c t·~ta hi ish men! oi the l sraeli . CONCORDJENSIS, Friday, October 19, 1973 War In Mideast---- Union Rea·cfs · defense position. Focusing forces on the Golan, by the Wednesday after war had begun, the Israelis had driven the Syrians out of the area. New York Times reports indicated .that Israeli jets were raiding strategic by PHYLLIS .E.DELMAN previous month's sale, startmg with the level of sales in September, aecording to New York Times sources. targets in Syria, including· In the meantime, Arab nations have called upon Pres. Nixon to p a rt i c i p a t e directly i n the mediation of this conflict. President Anwar El-Sadat .of Egypt has called for a cease-fire in area is. concerned, Prof. Berk said he \cannot believe the Israeli government would give it up.\ The Golan Heights overlooks a fc.!rtile, dense.ly populated Israeli ··egion. lhe Golan is strategicaily important to protect this area, and to prevent easy access across Israel to Haifa which lies in a downhill path from the Golan. is extremely hard on the Israelis, .hut they have not yet had to ration food Sl!pplies, Ptof. Berk ~aid. If the U.S. continues to wpply military aid to Israel, even if Soviet support continues for the Arab nations, the Israelis will be able to continue this war. Mor~le in Israel, Prof. Berk said, is now high and he assumes that it will remain high for as long as the war continues. Damascus airport and fuel depots. By the next day, Thursday; Israeli armor was rolling inte Syria on the road to Damascus. The Israeli force was within 20 miles of Damascus. The New York Times reported that as of Sunday the Israelis had destroyed more than half of the 1400 Syrian tanks. Since Friday of last week, the Syrians were also rece1vmg contingents of military supplies and infantrymen from Iraq. Jordanian forces entered on Saturday, aiding the Syrian front, .To the present, Israeli units have been able to hold their own against the Syrians and their allies. The New York Times wrote that Israeli forces. l,iad already knocked out the Iraqi units. On the Egyptian side of the battlefront, Israelis have had less ~ucces. The Egyptians were at one point holding positions ten miles . east of the Canal in the Sinai. Egyptian forces are still on the east bank of the Sinai, engaged in heavy tank battles with the Israelis. Appwximately 750 tanks and between 50,000 and 70,000 Egyptian troops are thought to be entrenched in the east bank, according to New York Times reports. As of this last Tuesday, an Israeli \task force\ was said to have crossed the Suez to the west hank. Egyptian sources have since disputed Israeli reports that this task force remains on the western hank. While fighting has conti'nued the Soviet Union has supplied equipment to the Arabs, including their effective surface-to-air missiles. Prof. Berk noted that the Soviet SAM~6's have \neutralized\ the effect of the Israeli Air Force, taking a heavy toll of Israeli planes. With the Arabs recetvmg military air lifts from the Soviets, the Israelis turned towards the United States. As of this past Monday, United States military aid to Israel has been forthcoming. li.S. involvement !\ question on many minds is the result United States aid to Israel and Soviet aid to the Arab nations will mean in diplomatic ter.ms between the two countries. Secretary of State Henry Kissinger and President Nixon have described the Soviet aid to the Arab nations as \moderate.\ This stand has conceivably been taken because of their wish to continue the movement towards a Soviet-U. S. detente. Prof. Berk, commenting on this, considers the Soviet aid to the Arab nations as \massive.\ From a personal viewpoint, Prof. Berk feels that the \Soviet Union is responsible for the war.\ Without Soviet military supplies and training, the Arabs, Prof. Berk said, could not have undertaken the war. With the United States sending military ::.uppiies to Israel, the question of ::.ending American troops has .also arisen in American minds. Prof. Rerk noted that there is a \possibility\ of U.S. troop involvement, but it is \not likely,\ a:. there is no need. Soviet troops have not taken, (and probably will not take) combat positions in Egypt or Syria, making it unnecessary for U.S. military forces to become involved. llndouhtably, any decision to :,end U.S. troops to the Mideast would cause considerable uproar in thi:, country. . One re:.ult of U.S. aid to the braclb has been an Arah embargo on oil to this country. I here will he a monthly ·reduction of five per cent from each 'the Middle East, with Israel moving back to her pre-'67 borders. The possibility of the Israelis moving back to all pre-'67 lines does not appear likely. Prof. Berk l\'tlted that the Canal area which I he Egyptians invaded was offered by the Israelis in negotiations in 1967. Arab pride, Prof. Berk ::.uggested, may have been the reason they did not accept it then, preferring to win this land back militarily. As f41r as the Golan Heights Review: ,With the first Israeli casualty figures released this week - over 600 dead and 1500 wounded, (according to New!lweek this is proportionately e!ifuivalent to almost twice the number of Americans lost during the entire Vietnam War), the question of how long Israel can continue this war arises. The answer, according to Prof. Berk, is \indefinitely.\ The Israelis are fighting for their ~urvival' and therefore have \no alternat.ive\ but to fight, claims Prof. Bet:k. Economically this war Syrian and Egyptian losses have also been extremely heavy. An estimated I 2,000 de&d and wounded, have been reported by Newsweek. The Arabs, howewr . . , have a gistinct manpowe.r advantage over Israel. As long as Soviet military aid continues the Arabs can continue fighting. Hopt;!fully,' though, their aim ·is not to annihilate the State of Israel, but to gain hack sqme of their lost pride, prestige, and land from the '67 war. A Lampoon Rough to Bear In the words of Peter Brook, a contemporary avant-garde director (The Empty Space), National Lampoon's \Lem- mings,\ is part of the Rough Theatre; it is the Theatre of Dirt. \The Rough Theatre doesn't pick and choose; if the audience is restive, then it is obviously more important to holler at the trouble- makers or improvise a gag ... filth and vulgarity are natural., obscenity is joyous: for by nature the (Rough) theatre is anti- authoritarian, anti-traditional, anti-pomp, anti-pretense.\ Rough Theatre is also the most popular theatre, popular in the ~ense that it draws the crowds, and popular in the sense that the audience applauds more, laughs more, and asks for more. Proctor and Bergman had cancelled. Good luck came our way when it' was found that \Lemmings\ was available. Many people had heard about it and some had seen it in New York. The word was that it was a sharp ~atire on the 60's - the rock and folk stars (Woodstock) and politics (Viet Nam). So we paid our money and settled back for a good time. \Lemmings\ started with an I.S D trip that seemed straight out of Mash. It was slapstick. It was \sick\ funny. The rest· of the first act was a series of scenes that centered around the impeachment of Richard Nixon. Martha Mitchell was a good bitch. We laughed. We applauded. Watergate was again very funny. Can we ever stop marveling that Allen Drury and Fletcher Knebel had nothing to do with the greatest Washington novel of all time? May it always he in the back of our minds. Was- it drawn out? If we had seen the original New York production 9f \Lemmings we would have seen Richard Nixon approach the ~tand. and when asked if he had anything to say, drop his pants to the microphone. (incidently, there were a few other scenes that were not presented at Union for one rea_;<;on or other: a Gay Liherationist, Goldi Oldie singing by LAUREN GORDON they are the real thing? We should get serious about the \Returning of the POW's.\ Some of us stopped laughing. Why does National Lampoon insist on making jokes about the assassination of John Kennedy? At one point a paraplegic. crawls to the microphone to tell his ~tory. Some ef us still laughed That, \Lemmings\ leave& up to us to decide. It presents the facts in Rough Theatre tradition so as to get the most reaction out of the audience, whether it be shock and indignation, or fun and laughs, but hopefully in both cases, thought. and applauded. I couldn't help ~i&uu@\'@$siLa\\i!U.'\\!!I!!I~ thinking that there might be a POW veteran in the audience, or ~omeone who knows one. We understood later that if by chance rhis offended us, as would other things that would subsequently follow, that was the purpose. When we come to a performance, why is It automatically assumed that we are going to enjoy ourselves? I didn't enjoy the show. The Rough Theatre likes to shock people, to sicken them, to .get a reaction out of them that is one of disgust instead of pleasure. Yes, there is an exaggeration, but of what? Something that has happened, something that is real. ''Woodstock was a festival of peace and love and life. \Woodchuck in the second act, was a festival of the celebration of death. It was saying: Follow me into the sea of death and I'll give you your choice - junk, starvation, electrocution, violence. Was it saying that we were poor misguided fools to allow ourselves to believe that our generation loves peace and life while all around us our heroes couldn't care less? Witness the fine performances of \Jesus Zimmerman\ (Dylan), Joan Bae·z, James Taylor, \Freud Adler, Rank, and Jung,\ Farmer Yasgur, not to mention Janis Joplin, Jim Hendrix, and Harry Truman (?), telling us how it really is. This was brought to a climax by the Hell's Angel. His presence was absolutely chilling. Why did he get such a favorable response? Was it our embarrassment covering up the fact that we had had enough? Alice Cooper was the bone-crushing finale. Was it ~aying take that and that and that? (Or was the noise level the result of the feud betWeen the cast and Roberta Flack's sound crew. ~ which was filling in for the \Lemmings\ one?) In the first act we were asked to ,.. laugh at the establishment's hangups and traditions, in the ~econd act we were asked to laugh SENIORS Dean John Lewis of the Woodrow Wilson School of Public and International Affairs will visit Union to interview Seniors on Friday, October 26 from 9 a.m. to 12:30 p.m. Come to Placement Office anCil sign up. 1\ DNCE-IN-A LIFETlME OPPORTUNITY. * * * -. SPECIAL- OCT. 26-27 11 P.M. NIGHT OF THE LIVING DEAD (THE CLASSIC HORROR FILM) .This Year's Easy Rider ELECTRA GLIDE IN BLUE Showtimes 7:00-9:00 (College students $1.50 with pic. I.D. Sun. thru F:ri.) Dave's Mens Shop .as3 State St. (dawntO»ta Schenectady) BOOK SALE SCHAFFER LIBRARY UNION COLLEGE October 21, commencing 2 Po m. at ourselves. Parts of \Lemmings\ ~ \\ere ~ick, disgusting, and ~ demented. But which parts? Could it he what was offensive to one wa~ hilariou~ to another. and ~Miscellaneous Subjects a medley of her greatest hits, and a· brilliant imitation of Mick Jagger. But they Were not visited hy Martha or Johnny Mitchell, as we were). One of the dynamite moments of this whole sequence was Nixon's impeachment speech His actual voice and actual words were spliced together so cleverly a~ to say everything Nixon never would: this tape should be offered a~ evidence to Judge John Sirica that, ~hould Nixon hand over his own tapes, how will it he l<nown 1 a minute later the tables reversed? Itt . ( b Altt permis and t follow. t hir,; s~ Union that a« here at The made t ad min crimes campu! court < ~tand, formal Smith admini Condw to rnee ~ays, \I its dea ~erves discipli1 hehavi<J Cenduc the con may ha may 1 pro bat perm an. The! there campus, functior ~up pose against Bl - Sugge If yot interviev a great research or comp with tl ~chool Place me Office. compani Office. I Thinks 1 It is when ) interviev. fleeting appearar you Jool what'~ ~ometimt moment they get · like.Do t dress or announct to them 1 campus i and last chance t' that com 1

Student Conduct Committee . . by PHY.LLIS JAMES Although we live in a permissive society, there are rules and regulation~ that we must follow. We must likewise follow this same order of conduct at Union College. There is a· body that acts as the judiciary board here at Union: The Conduct Committee is made up of faculty, students, and administrators. Should any crimes or civil offenses occur on campus, the commiUee acts as a court and brings the accused to ~tand, before them, following a formal complaint or charge. Dean Smith is now a member of the administrative part of the Conduct Committe.e. He has yet to meet with the committee, b,ut ~ays, \I do not know too much of its dealings. 1 do know that it ~erves the purpose. of handling disciplinary problems and unfair behavior done by· students. The Conduct Committee decides on the consequences that the student may have to pay. The committee may place the student on probation or expel him permanently from the college.\ The student should know that there is a court system on campus, s-hould be aware of its functions and know that it is ~upposed to work for him and not against him. B.L-ITHEll. Suggestions for Job Seekers: If you have signed up for any interviews to be held this fall it is . ' a great help if you do a little research on the· graduate· school or company before your interview with the recruiter. Graduate ~chool brochures are in the Placement Office and Registrar's Office. Brochures on all companies are in the Placement Office. He/ She Who Plans, and Thinks Ahead - Gets Job!! CONCORDIENSIS, Fri,day, October 19, 1973 I he next meeting of the Student-Faculty Bridge Club will be held on Tuesday, October 30th ·at7:45 p.m in Hale House Upper Lounge. All bridge ·players, good or bad, are welcome. The results of the last tournament were: First place: Hartman and Chansky Second place: Profs. Goodheart and Bacon. Third place: Weinberger and Schur. * *' * * The Union College Social Committee is presenting, in concert on Sunday, October 28, Ike and Tina Turner. There will be a matinee and an evening show. Tickets are available at Studen't Activities Office at Union. the Music Shack in Troy and Van Curler Music in Albany. Tickets bought in a-dvance ate $3.50 for Union students and $5.00 for all others. Tickets bought at the door will cost an additional 50 cents. * * * *' Any perso·n or persons interes.ted if! booking movies for win.ter term please contact Jim Alberg (346-9527 or 254 Fox) or Mrs. Marra in Student Activities (Ext. 6118). Wednesday and Friday nights are still mostly open. Y.ou need not book more than one. night and the College handles (for a fee) showing the movie. * . * * * Anyone interested in Foreign Study, Travel, o.r_ Work should go to the Foreign Studies Office, 211 Humanities Bldg., for further information. Hours: Monday and Fridav 9:30~12:30 Tuesdav and / Th~rsdhy 9:30:...10:30. * * * * The Union College Mountebanks Theatre Group will present its first production of the fall season, Indians, by Arthur Kopit, from Tuesday October 30th through Monday, November 5th. The curtain wiU rise promptly at 8 p.m. Tickets are on f>a!e now at the box office in Nott Memorial Theatre from l-5 p.m. and 7-9 p.m., Sunday through Thursd~y and at l-5 p.m. on Fridays and Saturdays. Admission is free for Union College Students; Others $2.00 .. Please call 370-6153. * * * * SENIORS DON'T FORGET Monday, October 22 Rutgers University Monday, October 22 U. of Rochester Tuesday, October 23 New York University Thursday and Friday October 25 and 26 ..... New York Air Brake Friday, October 26 Woodrow Wilson School * * * * There will be a steering committee meeting on Tuesday night, October 23rd at 7:30 p.m. at Chi Psi Lodge. Discussion will include freshmen elections, social committee appointments and the prop.osed calendar change. Everyone is invited. \' * * * Photo by Scott GoNion \Indians\ is coming to Nott Memorial Theatre October 30th to November 5th. Tickets go on sale next week. Union students, reserve ;:our tickets early. Ace Slationery I / HILLEL will be resuming t1ormal ac~ivities as soon as the war end~. At that time our weekly Israeli dancing will continue after a one-week period as a memorial to all those killed in the fighting. Some of our forthcoming activities . include a lecture by famed Yiddish author Isaac Bashevis Singer on November 18 at a· local synagogue. Plans are also underway for a Jewish Cab-aret. This performance will incmporate Israeli dancing, Israeli music (which will soon be a weekly activity in addition to the dancing), and other aspects of Jewish culture. Watch for announcement of a genera:! meeting where all interested member's can choose a committee to work on and become involved in the planning of this year's activities, Remember, there are weekly Friday night services on campus. Kiddush is made and candles are lit every week in the back party room at West. Services follow dinner. . With your help Hillel can have a very successful year. * * * * Workshop on Zen Buddhism. Sat., Oct. 27. 10 a.m.-4:30 p.m. Sharon Spril)gs Zen Center, donation - $'15; includes lunch. Contact by mail at Box 515, Sharon Springs, N.Y. 13459 or by telephone at 1-518-284-2670. Center located on Rt. 10, 1/3 mile north from intersectiop of Rts. 10 and 20 or 10 miles south of Canajoharie (Thruway Exit 29) DARI- TREET· FRIDAY SPECIAL HADDOCK DINNER French Fries, Cole Slaw Dinner Roll- $1.69 2049 VAN VRANKEN Mon.-~ri. 6-9 Sat. 8-9 Tel. 377-4261 CLIFFORD BOURST ARCO 80 NOTT TERRACE SCHENECTADY =·············-. I THE ~ I i Other Side 5 i of Today i I uHandcrqfted & : 1 Imported Items\ = • 135JAYST. • Pagel AUSTRIA • FRANCE l·week, per · Q\ ~~~:~l_·?:~· Acid $98 from Chica· go. Singles add $11. Features round-trip jet to Luxembourg, RT bus to Kitz- buhel, 2 meals daily, double room in chalet, Dec. 14 and weekly in Jan. Add.$10 Feb. and March, Also, 1-week ski tours to Chamonix and 2 weeks to Kitzbuhel or Chama- nix. Lowest-cost ski tours to Europe of any scheduled air- line. $250Caror Rail Tour* One week, per person, double, features round-trip jet from New York to Luxembourg and car with unlimited mileage- or $~60* unlimited rail travel in 13 European countries for singles. Add $98 from Chica- go. Offered Nov. thru March. SEE YOUR TRAVEL AGENT All prices subject to change. r------~------, 1 To: ICELANDIC AIRLINES (212) 757-8585 I 630 Fifth Ave., N.Y.,. N.Y. 10020 1 Outside N.Y. State: Toll Free I csool 221-9760 Send folder CN on tours to Eumpe from N.Y. o, from Chicago o, from Miami/Nassau D. Name, ________ _ Street.-.--~------- City _________ _ State _____ ZiP'---.- My Travel Agent is; _____ _ ICELANDIC I 3056 I L---·-----------' ~,u:~,,~~ STAR LIQUOR ~\ \ AND WINE DISCOUNT CENTER \Lowest Legal Prices\ \Free Delivery\ <t. \ It is strongly suggested that when you appear for. your interviews you give at least a fleeting thought to your appearance. We know that how you look says very little about what'~ in your head, but ~ometimes recruiters only have a moment to spend with you and all they get to know is what you look Iike.Do think about putting on a dress or suit or something that announces your profesllionalism to them right from the start. Your campus interview may be the first and last time you ever get a chance to talk to a person frotn that company. Don't Blow It!! :; 175 Jay St. := Cards for all Occasions • • • Tel. 377-0477 •· •••••••••••••••• ~~ Tel. 37 4-9285 - ~~. 1142 STATE ST. i~., .. ~ ...... \' 372-2008 Mon.-Sat. 9:30-5:30 REALE'S CAMERA SHOP NIKON LEICA MINOLTA \Supplies for the Professional & Amateur LENSES • FILM • PAPER HOURS: Mon.-Fri.ll-9, Sat. 11·5 1957 Foster Ave. (off Nott) Tel: 377-4446 George's Music Store 508 State St. Schenectady Tel. 374-5921 College Discount ~ LIPSTEIN'S LIQUORS Tel. 374-1888 Mon.-Sat. 9 a.rn.-9 p.m. ~ 464 State St. ~ Downtown Schenectady tevrs Da-ve's· Mens Shop . 453 State St. (-downtown Schenectady) LUIGI'S mDus Afloat: Italian Restaurant BARRETT ST. D16-9744 Sails each September a February. This is the way you've always wanted to leam ... and should. Combine accredited study with a fascinating semester of travel to Africa, Austral- asia, the Orient, and the Americas. Over 8500 students from 450 colleges . have already participated. Financial aid is available. Write now for free catalog: WCA, Chapman College Box 1 000, CA 92666 MCAT-DAT-GRE LSAT-ATGSB -ocAT NAf·L. BOs.· • Preparanion for tests required tor admission to graduate .and profes- sional schools • Six and twelve session courses • Small groups ·v~uminousmaterial'for home study pr~red by e•per:ts in each field • Lesson schedule can be tailored to meet ind~vidual needs. Les;;ons can be spread over a period of several months to a year, or for out of town students, a period of one week •Opportunity for review of past lessons via tape at the center Special Compact Courses during Weekends - lntersessions Summ.- Sessions STANLEY H. KAPLAN EDUCATIONAL.CENTER LTD. 11711 E_. 16th sw.t lmoltlyn, N. 'f u (2121336-6300 :.;; . (516) 538-t!i66' Dot. VS, EVENINGS. WEEKEND& Branches in 'Major Cities in U.S.A. ,.. r.eon., ScluMlwil4 ,.. N.~Mn..- ...,.. .........

·: ,, Lateral? CONCORDIENSIS, Fri(iay. Octobe~ 1-9, 1973 Love Story, Soccer Style by LEI RIMSKY What can I say about the .. fuilbatk Sandy Wilder abo Union soccer team? lhat they turned in excellent .efforts. That have a 4,0-1 record. That they are t·he scorers against Syracuse were great. That they score, pass, ·and' Craig Jeffries, Sandy Wilder, handle the ball with as much John Denio, and Mark Brickley. efficiency as you'll ever see from That the assists were tallied by college\aged Americans. That Doug Moran, Craig Jeffries, and they have disposed .of their last ·John SeJibet.zian. That the foward two oppQnents, Hbbart and Hne (John Serbetzian, Mark Syracuse, by the one-sided scores. Brickley, Craig Jeffries, John of 3-0 aild' 4-1, respecti:vely. That Denio) play€d an excellent game. Craig Jeffries booted home two That the team has outscored their goals ln the Hobart game and opponents 19-4. That they are Dickie Samuels had one. That very exciting to Watch and a lot of Where is the ''0\ ? Olaf Neilson and John Serbetzian fun to write about. That love were cr-edited witlt the assists. rfieans ... an undefeated Union That goa:lie John Busteru_d and soccer team~ Frosh lose to Middlebury 35~ 12· by J AND S As in the past, the defense has been the torch bearer of Union College football. The final scores of the previous three games are not indicative of the defenses ability. If he Wt<reto look at the first half scores of the games against W.P.I. (0-0), and Alfred (0-10), an observant individual, player or fan would have a ray of hope. As it turned out, a. ray was all it was, the outcome of both these games was a total of zero. The Rochester game came close to being a disaster before it got going. The secondary had been riddled with injuries to veterans: Dave Ricks and Jerry Cuffey; neither of whom was able to play.' U.C.'s offense was worse off than ever; the amazing Ron Westbrook had sore ribs. At the 'start of the game the secondary had only one ~tarter from the previous two games; John Ballard, a converted quarterback J o.hn had an interception and I'm sure he'll need a brand new pair of shoulder pads for the upcoming game. Way to go J.B. Credit to Ken Grey who brought Mr. Jarret, (# ~ETER PAUSE REST A·URANT 44) Rochester's fuliback down, to earth several times with authority. Even though the half time scare was 2'1-0 in favor of Rochester, credit must be given to the Ucoll's defense for it's effort It is difficult as hell to go on the field as a defensive unit week after week and hold an opponent to a minimal n1,1mber of points while watching your offense stall, time and time again. Just six points can keep a defense going for one more half. This week the opponent is R.P.I. (0-5). R.P.L did manage 21 points against Alfred though, so it could be another tough weekend for the \D\. If there is any secret ta the way J.B. got himself psyched up for Rochester, he'd better give the offense the formula. The injuries keep piling up though, and the secondary seems to have a monopoly on them. Joe Zolner will also be out this week with a knee injury and Cuffey will he out for yet another game. Dave Ricks is back though; he and Zolner must be trading weekends off. Good Luck gang and remember pre-season. fhafs about all there is to· remember. P.S. Ron Westbrook, the fleet footed, ho hum kid from Holyoke, Mass. scratched, kicked and bit his way to 100 yards on the ground and another 87 in the air. Go offense; I mean Ron. I'm sure he would appreciate some sup.port. Cross Country U Col's Cross Country team posted its first win of the season last Saturday as they shut out Trinity 15-49. The Dutchmen took the first six places as BiJI Galarneau, Steve Jones, Stan Wiscov.zski, Crawford Cutts, Mark Mindel, and John Dolan swept to victory. Wednesday however, at Middlebury, the Union squad was downed 17-42. Galarneau took 4th, Wiscowski 7th, and Cutts 8th in the tough meet which saw the first 8 men come. in within .30 seconds. Steve Jones was out of the meet with an injury which hurt the Union cause. The next meet is this Saturday versus R. P.I. at Troy starting at 11;30 AM. Photo by David Hardman r---,----------------r---, I Sl I DI~~o,r~ m~:sAD l Sl I 1·----•---------------l.----·1 I The Bootery I I CONVERSE I The Freshman Football team dropped its second .straight game, 35-12 to Middlebury last Friday. The game was highlighted by the running of Dave Boggs, who scored 2 touchdown!! and r:ushed for. t80 yards in 27 cariies. Coach Gale Kinill cotnm.ent.ing Here yougo; take it! .BLlTHER All those Freshmen interested in running for the two positions for the Class of 1977 on the Steering Committee may pick up petitions in the Student .Activities Office, Ol<l Gym Hall, starting Friday, October 19. Petitions are due by noon, Monday, October 29. A minimum of 105 signatures from the class of '77 is requited. NOTICE!!!! THE DATE OF THE ELECTION HAS BEEN CHANGED FROM TUESDAY, OCTOBER 30, TO WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 31. The date of the runoff election is not affected, and remains Thursday, November I. Voting will be held in the Strauss Lounge of the College Center from 9 a.m. to 10 p.m. on those dates. All members of the (]ass of '77 are eligible to vote. For further information, call Harry Lessin at 370-6560. \For tflr(:'e G . • e rw rat1ons I MOCCASINS I :{ I Lined & Waterproof Winter & Hiking· Boots I I . I 1 - Complete Line of Dance Ace. - I 1 'Student Discount~ ·:· * 16~Ja~· St.* ~i:~:. t·.:~ t!.~n\,· .... : \t.:·· on the season so far says, \·for only being t 0 gher since September 19, the fellows are doing very well.\ He expects improvement in Upcotning games, the next being this Friday at 3 o'clock at Alexander Field. Photo by BiD Ericbson The Union Collegll Football squad puts its 0•3 recprd on the line this Saturday at 1:30 p.m. when they v~a,ture to Troy to tackle the Turkeys. This will definitely be a struggle of the super-powers as R.P.I. with an even better record of 0-5 will be out there scratching and clawing. Try to make it to the game if at all possible for the traditionally best game of the year. The Dutchmen, with a .tittle crowd support and encouragement could go on to crush the Turks. Projected score: Either a scoreless tie or a 42.0 Union Win. There's no way R.P.I. can score; its just a matter if we can. Besides, after a bit of a dry spell in the luck category, the odds have got to be on Union's side. :·:·. Mon.-Sat. 5:30·7:30 535 NOTTST. L l .· l47JAY ST. I . ·\nd ( •l}<·,t_! .Je~A.t•::-, ·: ::'if::.::·:: .. : ... ·:: .,. ·. ,,, . :·.::·, =: ....... .... : Hf:.~S~iE~l.: ..... ~~.~R .. I.~E B.: ~~::.7-.~~.·-·:. .. ::· .. ,f' ':··. . Tel. 374-777'7 Hr. 9 .. 5:30, Tit. ,.9 .. . . . . 1 ____ ...__... _ _. ____ ~--w• ... __ _ . ·. ~ UniQ and Tii Tickets Strauss Tickets others; Vo by PJ Ilene Treasure MovertH reunifica at Union Political night. Civil emphasiz the nort !Jefore tt ~ix nortl ~outhern Rep res of the I Ms. Sh civilian l promoted of the I Sheerin c polarizin! Protestan than join aim of th Accord current sl only tht difference and the ·f result of e exist in I. Beginni noted, Ia~ outlawing and di! Catholics office or J ~ervice. Tl in 1829. During anti-Cathc British insurrectic and Cathc Througl the Btitisl economic hy British want indu Ireland p1 Revoluti01 there. Th~ today rer agrarian r industriali; prevented coming fn heing abs< class pop ~tressed unemployr both the f working. standard due to lac Sheerin no Fearing and the P' Catholics, ~eo a rated

Uni«m Colleg~ .presents in concert on Sunday, October 28, Ike and Tina Turner. Tbere will be two shows at··(i p.m .. and 9 p.ru. Tickets ,are available at Student Activities during :the week, and at Strauss LC)unge~ Student Center from 1 p.m.-4 p.m. on Saturday. Tickets 'in advance are $3.50 for Union students a.nd $5;00 for .aU others; tickets bought at the dllor will cost an additional 50¢. Vol. 1:03, No. 5 Friday, October 26, 1973 Profs. React to .Nixon Gracey Q: }.f().w is Nixon. a product of American society? Would .all Amerh:ans act the same in his situation? Well, rno:;t people wouldn't get in his si.tuation. Most' men that get :that far have more finesse. Nixon has painted himself in a cerner, and hal:i hecome aware of his position, and is now trying to find a way out. He saw that he was probably going to lose in the Supreme Court and, to get out of that embarrassing situation, aceepted Judge Sirica's ruling. By doing so he has gotten back in the legal stm.cture of society. I think Nixon's basic goal this term was to make a Republican Party with a large national constituency. Now the Democrats outnumber Republicans, and the Republicans must run a hero 20 cents candtdate wtth large ~upport like Eisenhower, or must have the · election handed to them, like this past election, in order to win in a nf}tional election. To this end, Nixon was trying to reorganize the Federal bureaucracy: the White House would have control over all departme.nts, and benefits gf :the system, like HEW grants, contracts, could be;> parcelled out to gr~mps he wanted to win over to the Republican Party. He was woeing the middle Class and the upper class in the South, from l.os Angeles to Florida. This was to be Nixon's gift to the Republican Patty, a national constituency which could compete on equal footing with the Democrats in the Presidential election. Q: Was Nixon aciirtg within society's norms in his firing of Cox; reneging of promises, and extra-legal campaign practices? Nixon's individual goals are those accepted by our society: wealfh, power, and status. He gained power through the political system, and through using his power, he increased his wealth. However, to achieve these accepted American goals he is using illegitimate means within the American power system. good government, and in a more volatile society there would be the potential for a revolt. There is still tbe implicatio,n that the ~overnment might lose its 1 legitirnacy. I think we're in abqut a~ serious a crisis as we've ever been in. In genenH, groups can't function without legitimate authority unless they are held together by threats of force and violence. I was hoping .that the President would name a man of real stature a~ Vice-president, someone Iike Earl Warren, someone who could restore confidence- in the government. But perhaps Nixon does not want to be embarrassed by ~tanding next to someone of that stature. Q: Would I be safe in assuming, then, that you don't think Nixon will get Time's \Man of the Year\ a ward this year? Sheerin on Irish Unity Haldeman was cited by a court for illegal campaign practices in Nixon's unsuccessful campaign for Gavernor of California in J.962, and Nixon used the same men to }.Yin his presidential election. I can't believe that Nixon didn't know what Haldeman was doing rn California in 1962. Maybe tile award for the most immoral, or the most disrespected man. We need Somebody to write a Greek tragedy about this man. Someone has written a play bassed on Shakespeare's King Richard III - King Richard I - but, even more, we need a Greek tragedy. Greek tragedy is moral tragedy, the inversion of political ·power leading to the fall of the house of Atreus, only this time it will he the fall of the House of Nixon. Perhaps Nixon does not have the stature of a subject of such a drama, but the story of this administration is \tragic\ from his point of view. He could have won the election by quite legal means - the Democrats pretty much handed it to him - and gone on to achieve his goal of a large contributing Republican party. Now, due to the used illegitimate means which have been observed, his administration and his own. standing in America are destroyed in terms of political effectiveness and the victim Republican party will he in a :-hambleso.. by PHYLLIS EDELMAN Ilene Sheerin, National Treasurer of the Irish Republican Movement, called for the reunification of Ireland, speaking at Union College as guest of the Political Forum on Wednesday night. ('ivil rights, Ms... Sheerin emphasized, must be granted to the northern. Catholic rnin·ority oefore the renunification of the 'ix northern counties to the 26 wuthern counties can succeed. Representing the Official wing of the Irish Republican Army, Ms. Sheerin condemned the civilian bombing that has been promoted by the Provisional wing of the IRA This action, Ms. Sheerin claimed, only succeeds in polarizing both the Catholic and Protestant working class, rather than joining them together, the aim of the IRA. According to Ms. Sheerin the current struggle in Ireland is not only the result of .religious differences between the Catholics and the ·P-rotestants, but also the result of economic conditions that exist in Ireland. . Beginning in 1639, Ms. Sheerin noted, laws were passed in Ireland outlawing the Catholic religion and discriminating against Catholic-s from holding public office or posts in the army or civil ~ervice. These laws were abolished in 1829. During this same period of anti-Catholic discrimination the British stifled a popular insurrection of both Protestants and Catholics. Throughout the 19th century the 8ritish held the Irish under economic domination. Pressure by British merchants who did not want industrial competition from Ireland prevented the Ind.ustrial Revolution from developing there. The result is that Ireland today remains very much an agrarian nation. This lack of industrialization in the cities has prevented the unemployed coming from the rural areas from being absorbed into the working class population. Ms. Sheerin stressed the fact that unemployment is high and that both the Protestant and Catholic working . Classes nave a low standard of living. Emigration due to lack of opportunity, Ms. Sheerin noted, has also been high. Fearing the national movement and the political strength of the Catholics, in 1920 England seDarated the six counties .of Northern Ireland from the 26 :-outhern counties, which became the Irish Free State. Ms. Sheerin mentioned that discrimination against Catholics i n the north in cl ud e s disfranchisment and the Special Powers Act. This Att, still in effect, permits houses to be broken into and searched at any time, an<i _persons to be detained indefinitely by the British army. In 1967 Ms. Sheerin said, the civil rights movement began in Northern Ireland. Since its beginning it has been a bloody affair. The Protestants have refused to share any power with the Catholic minority. In August of 1971 British troops invaded Irish working class neighborhoods. Since that time the IRA have set Up barricades and vigilante patrols to warn the people of the appearance of British troops. - In 19.70 the Provisional wing of the IRA broke from the Official wing,. according to Ms. Sheerin. The Official wing would like to unite the Protestant and Catholic working classes through the process of education. To achieve u-nity Ms. Sheerin noted that the Special Powers Act discriminating against the Catholics must first be abolished. The Provisional wing of the IRA wou.ld like to alleviate the depressed economic conditions in Ireland. They call for cooperative farms instead of huge mechanized farming which would further increase u.nemploytnent. Provisional tactics call for militant action, including bombing, in contrast to the educational campaign of the Official wing of the IRA. Ms. Sheerin, however, emphasized that despite the difference in tactics, both factions of the IRA want a united Ireland. Nixon's defense is that these tactics are used by everybody, in other words, that they are not illegitimate. But it is clear that they are illegal and that Nixon is violating the customs and norms of American politics and society. Nixon is unable to distinguish between the illegitimate and the legitimate, and this is the same for the Committee to Reelect the President. Q: To what extent does Nixon's crisis represent the stresses of modern society? America puts importance on this kind of worldly success in terms of power, wealth, and status. This pressure leads to a great deal of deviant behavior in America, with many people using illegitimate methods to achieve their goals, from the cop who takes handouts, to the contractor who pays off politicians, to basketball players who accept · bribes to throw games, to Agnew who takes kickbacks. · There is a crisis of morality in American society, I mean half the people in the U.S. cheat on their income tax forms. This crisis pervades all levels of society and puts a constant pressure ort moral norms. A: Was the President acting illegally? Jt is within the power of the President to fire Cox the Attorney General and the Assistant Attorney General; a1I serve at the President's pleasure. The only way we could get an independent investigation is if Cox were appointed by Congress. However Nixon went back on his word: he said that he would make all files available, then reclassified Haldeman's and Erlichman's files unaer presidential papers. It must be that there is evidence of presidential complicity. What else can it be? Q: But you do think that Nixon's behavior was wrong? His behavior is absoiutely wrong. This man is in a completely immoral position, and the vast majority of American people feel this way now. This is leading to a most serious legitimacy problem. When people feel that their leaders are wrong, a crisis of legitimacy is the result. If the situation gets worse, it could lead to a problem with government. The American 'people feel they are not getting Potts In an interview, Professor Potts of the History Department stressed that \there was a sufficient moralistic outlook generated by the press to put some limits on the actions of the , President in the dimensions of the corruption involved.\ He continued, \It turned out, I think, not so much to be the courts but the public outcry in this most recent case.\ Potts believes that this moralistic outlook, wbich he refers to as a \nerve in American Society,\ had its pay-off with the most recent news that Nixon agreed to turn in .the tapes. He mentioned that \as an historian it is difficult to assess the situation in terms of an analogous situation because there aren't any. The closest president which parallels Nixon in terms of · taking extremely strong executive action is that of Andrew Jackson, but this analogy breaks down because Jackson was a very popular President during these actions.\ · · He followed with another example, but again saw the lack of analogy for the intense conflicts within the Executive Branch during this administration. Summarizing, Potts, said, \There is a lot of truth in what the commentators say about . this situation, 'an historic and unprecedented event.•\ On the prospects of impeachment, Potts had this to say: ''Impeachment proceedings won't get very far. Congress, especially the House of Representatives, never had much of a stomach for undertaking this.\ H·artwig The following are the condensed answers of Professor Frederick Hartwig to a series of Continu~d on Page 11

j, ', ' :: . Paqe2 CONCORDIE,NSTS, Friday, October 26, 1!}73 ·Union on the Warpath He Is or He Isn't Our heads are spinni1,1g. As of two days ago we· were prepared to present in this column an editorial ~ritten by two staff members of the Amherst Student calling for an immediate investigation into the impeachment of Richard Nixon. Then King Richard released the infamous Watergate tapes. All of us, the editors at schools like Yale, Smith, Amherst, Princeton and others, were in a quandry. We could no longer run the editorial that we had prepared and we did not have the time to circulate a new text to the approximately 120 schools that were involved in this enterprise. We decided, after consultation with several other universities, to act on our own. We will no longer call for the impeachment of Nixon, we don't think that it is at all necessary. Instead we present several analysis of the situation by Union faculty, (some were conducted prior to the tape release). We ask you to read them carefully and draw your own conclusions about the Presidenfs actions. Political analysts are doing handsprings, the American polity is confused and Congress seems to have awakened at long last. Think about the last week in the context of government m general. Can Richard Nixon govern any lQnger? If he .can, to what extent should -his actions be constrained by Congress? And, if you feel in the mood, ask yourself what actions should be taken by responsible members of the 'United States (iovernment if it is concluded that Nixon cannot govern:·any longer. Can we afford to have an ineffectual President? In the final analysis the answer ·may indeed lie in impeachment. Dear Sir, Letter to the Edifo,r however at a loss to explain why the volume of theft for certain articles increases during vacations. Many malicious Arthur Kopit's brilliant play INDIANS opens at Union College on Tuesday, Octob~r 30th . for a one-week run, ending on Nov~mber 5 .. It is a ••must-see.\ Besides the provocative dialogue of this social allegory, the cast is almost entirely comprised of freshmen, whose ebullience and enthusiasm for the theater guarantee that this production, the Mountebanks first\' of the season, will be a smash hit. The production is an extension II U~ aJJoUt fhose I RICHARI) B. THA U of the Orientation Program; tryouts were held during the first week of school. Of the cast of forty eight, only eight are upperclassmen; yet the show is better for this, D~r:ector Barry Smith believes that the freshmen \do not feel threatened, ·as they would if playing under a lot of upperclassmen.\ -Their eagerness to perform, their optimism towards the play's success. shines thrm,1gh and the production is infinitely more exciting. because of .. r· For all the .witches and ghouls running loose on campus the Social Committee is sponsoring a Monster Mash on Halloween Eve., October . 30. WR UC will provide the · !>ounds from 10 p.m. until 2 a.m. for all the skeletons to twist, tango, and cha-cha their hones. To quench the thirst, free brew, but watch out, it's potent! Come dressed in your hest coffin suit. Fot 50¢ admission, it'll be a fantastic fiasco. If luck is with you, you may even win one of the many students must be remaining on Campus during Thanksgiving. The problem this College has with regards to security can not be analysed by using information gathered from a few friends or even by placing the blame for all our problems on a single person or group. Instead we should look to ourselves for the answer, perhaps the studerit at Webster ~ terrific door prizes. ~ who prevented the theft of - SPECIAL- furniture is the start of a trend of OCT. 26-27 students that care. Hans Black '74 NIGHT OF THE James Brennan '74 LIVING DEAD Tom Lundquist '74 Shown Only at ll:30p.m. John Walker '75 -SPECIAL - Oon Leach '76 .- ..... iii ~!!!!~ Fred Lanes '74 Attention Juniors and Seniors: The 1973 Union Book has arrived! Piek up your copy Mon. Fri. (October 29-November 2) from 3-5 p.m. in Room 304 Carnegie. Your ID is required! We the undersigned feel that your analysis of the Union College security force was an exaggeration and does not place the security force here in the proper perspective. Thefts do indeed plague universities all over the country, Union is not an exception, but we are . still considerably better off than the majority of other schools. You ~eem to think it unfortunate that Chief Kleinkauf is such a kind and caring man, perhaps we ~hould find a new director of ~ecurity that does not take the time. and the trouble to see ~tudents at any time. Nor then will we need a man that goes out of his way to help students recover lost items, even when they admit that their room wasn't locked because they just wanted to go to the library. Richie Burrell '74 Notice: There are still some You also enrich us with the knowledge that mass groupings of \townies\ do not invade the Campus during the night. We are Marc Horowitz '74 ID cards at the Dean of Oave Matteson '73 Student's Office which have Dave Kodl '76 not been picked up. If you Steve DiCesare '76. FR. 7-8290 don't have yours, stop by and Janet Dwyer '74 ~;;;;~;;;;;;;;;&;•;· ;;~~;g;e~t ;it;R;I;G;H~T;A;;W~A~Y~-;;;;;;-' Concordiensis is published every Friday during the school I year except during examination and vac<ttion periods by the student body of Union College. Schenectady, N.Y. 'National Advertising Representative: National Educational Advertising Service, Inc., NYC. Editorial office, Old Gym Hall, Union College. Publication office., The Jewish World Publications, 771 State Street, Schenectady, New York, 12307 (346-2356). Entered in the Schenectady post office as Second Class Mail Matter. Subscription rate: 20 cents a copy, 8 dollars a year delivered anywhere in the United States. Deadline for all copy, which must be TYPED AND DOUBLE SPACED. is 7 p.m. on Tuesday at the Concordiensis office, located third floor Carnegie. The office phone number is 370-6155, but the office is in use only on Monday and Thursday nights. FOR ALL. EDITORIAL MAITERS CALL THE EDITOR-lN•CHIEr AT 370-6126, FOR INFORMATION CALL MRS. MARRA IN THE STUDENT ACTIVITiES OFFICE AT 370-.6118 . REALE'S· CAMERA SHOP NIKON LEICA MINOLTA \Supplies for the Professional & Amateur LENSES. FILM • PAPER HOURS: Mon.-Fri. 11•9, Sat. U-5 1957 Foster Av~. (offNott) Tel: 371-4446 the freshmen participation. Ali sixty~six of the costum~s used in the J)rodllctiort were made by Union students. Furthermore, the scenery of the performance was built entirely by students who took apart seven old barns from the surrounding ar:ea and converted the wood · into the 'play's backdrop. · On the surface, INDIANS is the story of huffalo hill's Wild West Show of the 1880's, c.omplete with Cody, Sitting Bull, Chi~f Joseph, and Ned Buntline. Yet underneath the obvious is the message .of dehumanization of individuals, of· the manipulation ofinnocent characters, and of the unfortunate depravity of American society, Buffalo 8iU, the greatest American hero of the bygon( frontier, is portrayed as a pathetic individual whose very behavior comes not from within, but as a. response to the needs of the audience; and on a larger scale, to the desires of our society. The man who was a legen<J in his own time and a figure · for reverence by all is reduced by Koplt to a weak and pitiful creature under the control of the despicable Ned Buntline, who represents. our exploition of the people we want to use. The interaction between Cody (Gerry Silberstein) and Buntline (Bob C. Todar()) is both touching and sickening. While Buffalo Bill strives to tiold onto the rapidly disappearing West, Buntline takes control of the man he made into a heto and ex.ploits Cody for his own financial benefit. But we exploit Buffalo Bill to a greater degree. Director Barry Smith feels that \we sap Cody, we use him _for our own pleasures.\ Kopit uses Buntline to represent what has gone wrong with society, while Cody is portrayed as a symbol of the innocence of a helpless society, watching its decline and vainly grasping for remnants to Q.old on to. Bill's use of Sittin_g Bull and the other Indians in his show represent his failing attempts to hold onto what has already passed him by. Consequently, Cody is ;told by Sitting Bull ''we never killed you, because it wouldn't have made a difference.\ If INDIANS has a hero, it must be Sitting Bull. He never compromises his beliefs and inevitably is killed in the massacre at Wounded Knee. This massacre is Kopit's representation of the tragic deaths at Kent State, made even more pathetic as we see. it justified by Cody in his search for immortality. His justification is a biting parallel to our fighting in Vietnam under the pretext qf protecting democracy. INDIANS is non-sequential in its set-up and is tnore of a \collage or mosaic of events\ than a logical progression of thoughts. The thirteen scenes that comprise the performance are tied together hy the quasi-conscience of Americans, as represented by Buffalo Bill. However, the sudden change of scenes from the Senate investigation of Jndian grievances to the Wild West Show to the Cody-Buntline confrontations makes this production even more dynamic. The Mountebanks' production, working on the largest theater budget <Jf the year, will thoroughly entertain the audience. It is a play that acutely points out what we Americans have done to ourselves, to the Indians, and to the subjects we chose to rnake out heroes. This play makes one laugh. but more importantly it makes the viewer :.ee the manipulation and dehumanization of individuals for the pleasures of sodety. * \' *· * Tickets VIII be on sale at the theater in N ott Memorial everyday from I :00 to 5:00 p.m. and 7:00 to 10:00 p.m. lnt« l In campu the ~ Adviso .Outsid1 Father pastor at the ( Streets. Chapel on can likely t all ove various commu answeri discus anybod Duri1 Con cor opinio: commu and fa< their o· ~ach cornmu those I> rea kin. Murph) in local knows does. F Schenec the nun projects Fa the Se1 Articlt \By-Law .. tates, .. , .. ubmit t 1\ ritten year to t the Colh The C follows: 1\dmissic and Pn Educatio Conduct. Develop lnnovat F~culty Graduate Degrees, Library, committe and Stud !\:, of five of th had sut (Budget ~ Developn and Lihn three had according This mo good are followed committet proposals' members ..,hows tha minutes ~ future mt what has ..,uch diso1 in the a taken on RO(J · Located • 535 Nott! bath and water, ele Pause Pro ~~ .. § • LIP Ll< 1 Mon.· ~ 4 ~ Downt ~

\II In )y he as 10 m ld 1e is ld s ' I, 1e ,f n e f I, e a v ' f r CONCORDIENSJS, Friday, October 26, 1973 Page3 lntervi.ew Father Murphy New School Calendar A vote to recommend a Split• I H ca.Jendar to the Agenda Committee of the All-College Senate and to the student body was unanimously passed at the Steering Committee meeting on Oct. 23. The proposed calendar change would begin and end the academic year earlier. The Winter term would begin after Thanksgiving Vacation and run for three weeks until Christmas Vacation. School would then resume for seven weeks until a Spring Vacation (which would be about 2Y2 weeks). Spring term classes will then meet for ten weeks without a break. In all cases, exams will be given prior to the vacation periods. getting out of school earlier · would benefit students in search of more and better jobs. Another positive aspect of the Split-HI calendar is that Union would be in session at the same time as the other Consortium colleges (.Skidmore, RPI, Siena, and Russell Sage). defray costs. A Roving Grievance by PA TTl CURRAN In his official capacity on campus, Father Jim Murphy is the Catholic Chaplain and Advisor to the Newman Club. .Outside of his duties at Union, Father Murphy is the assistant pastor at St. Columba's Church at the corner of Emmet and Craig Streets. He has ail office in Old Chapel, but is rarely there when on campus. Rather, he is more likely to be found on his travels all over the campus, talking to various members of the College community, gathering opinions, answering questions, and just discussing anything with anybody. During the past few weeks, ('oncordy ha::; printed many opinions on the lack of rommumty at Union. Students and faculty seem to divide into ·their own cliques, isolated from each oth.er and from the community around them. For those who are interested in i'>reaking out of this mold, Fr. Murphy suggests getting involved in local projects; and if anyone knows a.bout such projects, he does. Father Murphy is a native Schenectadian, and can advise on the number and diversity of these projects. Father Murphy is personally ~ Senate Law Article IV, Section I of the ''By-Laws of the College Senate\ 'tates. \College committees shall 'ubmit their proposals and their 1\ ritten reports at least once a year to the. Agenda Committee of the College Senate ... \ The College committees are as follows: Academic Opportunity, Admissions, Athletics, Budget and Priorities, Comprehensive Education, Computer Science, Conduct, Curricular Affairs, Development, Educational Innovation, Environment, Faculty and Staff Benefits, (iraduate Studies, Honorary Degrees, Liason and Governance, Library. Special Events, Sub- committee-Religious Activities, :md Student Aid. !\~ of Wednesday, October 24, five of these nineteen committees had submitted their reports. (Budget and Priorities. Conduct. Development, Graduate· Studies. and Library). Of these five, only three had handed in their reports according to the By-Laws. This may seem petty, but what good are By-Laws if they are not followed? What good are committees without reports and proposals? An inquiry by two members of the Concord.y staff -.hows that in some committees no minutes were even kept. How are future members going to know what has happened? The result of ~uch disorganization is. the delay In the action which could be taken on certain issues. ROOM FOR RENT Loeated ()Ver Peter Pause Restaurant, 535 Nott St. 3 Beedrooms, living room, batlJ and kitthen. $15 per week (Heat, water, electricity included). See Peter Pause Proprietors for Info. . ~ LIPSTEIN'S LIQUORS Tel. 374-t88ft Mon.·Sat. 9 a.m.-9 p.m. 464 State St. Downtown Schenectady involved in many projects and in the past a number of Union ~tudents have worked with him. Among the projects are the Hamilton Hill· Food Co-op, which is an independent food ~tore operated by concerned residents of the Hill (one of the older residential areas of the city, hut commonly imagined to be a ··ghetto\) the People's Advisory Serivce, which provides information to people on Wl:)lfare and is aided by Fr. Murphy in his role as ombudsman, and the Peace Center on State Street. The Peace Center will be involved in a discussion of the Arab-Israeli War with speakers from two of the countries involved on Monday, October 29 at the Unitarian Church on Wendell Ave. at 7:30 p.m., and a'll are invited. B·LlTHER . ·- - . . The Philosophy Department would like to invite the College Community to the following events: Thursday. Nov. I, at 8:00p.m. in SSOI6 - Pulbic Lecture - \Art Works and Real Things,\ by Professor Arthur C. Danto, Professor of Philosophy, Columbia University. Reception in Humanities Faculty Lounge following the lecture. Friday, Nov. 2, at J:OO p.m. in H U213 - Seminar- \Language and. the Tao,\ by Professor Arthur C. Danto, Columbia University. * * * * Anyone interested in joining an Ad Hoc Committee to investigate the possibilities of hiring a new food service to replace Saga, please sign up at the Steering Committee mailbox at the Student Activities Office in Old Gym Hall. * * * * There will be a Social Action Committee meeting on Tuesday, Oct. 30, at 7:30 in S.S. 115. * * * * The Political Forum will hold an organizational meeting on Wednesday, Oct. 31st, at 4:30 p.m. in SS 115. Future plans will oe discussed. Davidson House dormitory is ~ponsoring a party, Saturday night (October 27th) commencing at 8:30 p.m. it will be held in the Davidson Lounge. Come one. come all!!! Michelob, munchies and music. Free. CLIFFORD BOURST ARCO 80 NOTT TERRACE SCHENECTADY Larry Brown, President of the Steering Committee, felt that Electrical Engineers & Computer Science Majors! Sperry-Rand wants You!! They find that their employment needs are such !hat they want to reci·uit at Union in the Fall as well as the winter. They will be here November 6, 1973, Tuesday, from 9 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. Be sure to sign up, especially if you expect to comple.te your coursework in December or March. Sign-Up in the Placement Office Immediately! * * * * There will be a meeting of the Photographic Society this Monday afternoon in Fox Lounge at 4:30 p.m. Membership • cards will be distributed this time and future plans will be discussed. * * * * To all commuter students: On November I a lounge for commuter students will be opened in the basement lounge of Richmond. The lounge will be open at all times. At night, for ~ecurity reasons, students will be required to show ID cards. Contact the Housing Office with any questions or suggestions. * * * * Reminder! The next session of the Student-Faculty Bridge Club will be on Tuesday, October 30th· at 7:45 p.m. in the Hale House Upper Lounge. All bridge players are welcome. Any questions, please call David Gordon, 346- 9895. George's Music Store 508 State St. Schenectady Tel. 374-5921 College Discount 783 ALBANY ST. We Deliver Until Midnight ..... Call 374•5600 Dave's Mens Shop -153 State St. · ( dawncOWASc.benectady) fiiABELLA·s· . -~ F & H Pharmacy 527 UNION ST. Phone 370-2380 DARI- TREET. FRIDAY SPECIAL HADDOCK DINNER French Fries, Cole Slaw Dinner Roll - $1.69 2049 VAN VRANKEN Mon.-Fri. 6-9 Sat. 8-9 T .1. 377-4261 . • The Steering Committee also • • set up an Ad Hoc Committee to investigate the possibilities of hiring a new food service when the present contract with Saga expires. There is nothing in the Saga contract stating that freshmen must take meals for all three terms (it only says fall term). The College requires three terms of .meals because it guarantees Saga a minimum of 500 students on the meal plan to This Friday, Oct. 26, the Union College Coffeehouse is proud to present Kirk Edwards, country- blues musician and songwriter. Also appearing with Edwards will he Union student Gary Myszkowski. It all starts at 8:30 p.m. in Old Chapel. Admission is 50 cents and the coffee and doughnuts are free. * * * * Committee was discussed at the meeting in order to develop better relations between the administration and the student body. This committee, composed of Deans Smith, Wy!en, and Lichterman, Steering Comm. Pres. Brown, and three other students, would go from dorm to dorm every two weeks and listen to studem complaints and answer questions. · In other Steering Committee actions the Girls' Tennis Team and the Soccer Club ~ere approved. The Parachute Club was tabled for further discussion and a request to establish a Karate Club was defeated. There will be a Ski Patrol meeting on Thurs., Nov. I at 4:30 p.m. in Straus~ Lounge. All members and candidates should bring $10.00 for registration. Plans for the November party will be discussed. 1t is important that anyone interested in joining attend. * * * * ***************************\ lttut·n ~quite ~~op \The Biggest Selection of Suede and Leather Outerwear in the Capital District\ 420 State St. Downtown Schenectady OPEN TUES.& THURS. 'TIL 9 P.M. c****************************:

Page4 CONCORDIENSIS, Friday, October .26, 1?73 , '• !•,, . , .... ~ '•r i . }') New York State Drug Purpose ~e following is intended to answer general ques~ hons that New York State citizens may have regard- ing the new drug laws as they relate to law ertforcement and drug abuse treatment programs. Jt should be noted that this information is of a general nature and not intended for individual situ- ations. Specific cases concerning the law should be discussed with appropriate legal counsel. Individuals seeking treatment should c;;ontact the New York State Drug Abuse Control Commission .at these telephone numbers: In New York City, 246-9300. Elsewhere in New York State (toll free) 800~522- 2193. Program The New York State Drug Abuse Program is a spe- c:;ially created State-approved program to achieve these ends: · l) to deter all citizens from abusing certain types of drugs, cailed \controLled substances\ by State law, and 2) to help rehab!litate any citizen who is, or may be in imminent danger of becoming, depen- dent on these drugs. The Program is based on New York State laws. pertaining to public health, mental hygiene, penal codes, and other related areas. It further represents the efforts of the State gov- ernment through the New York State Division of Criminal Justice Services and the N.Y. State. Drug Abuse Control Commission (prior to September I.. 1973, the New York State Narcotics Addiction Con- trol Commission) to implement and publicize the law enforcement and drug abuse treatment provisions of these laws. A \Controlled substances\ are drugs classified by New York State law (Controlled Substances Act) into five groups or schedules (Schedules I- V). These schedules follow federal law scheduies for the same drugs. · The salient features of the five schedules and examples of drugs included for each schedule ere as follows: 1) Schedule I drugs are highly abusable substances which have no current ac- cepted rnedical use or lack accepted safety for use in treatment under medical supervision (heroin, LSD); 2) Schedule II drugs include substances with a high potential for abuse but wM;:h have an accepted or restricted medical use (cocaine, demerol, amphetamines, methadone); 3) Schedule III substances may lead to moderate or low physical dependence or high psychological dependence, but have currently accepted medical uses in treat- ment of patients (the more potent bar- biturates and depressants); · 4) Schedule IV drugs include tranquilizers, sedatives and other depressants; S)Schedule V substan;:;es are cough prep- arations with minimal narcotic ingredients. Broadly described, these schedules include nar-cotic drugs (opium and opidtes, heroin, mor- phine, codeine, etc.), amphetamines (\ups\), d,epressants (barbiturates, \dovms\), and hallu- cinogens and hallucinogenic substances (LSD, mescaline, peyote). Alcohol and nicotine are substances not included in these schedules or laws~ . A complete schedule of the drugs is listed in The New Drug Laws the back of this leaflet. l) Q .. Wha~ are the new df\lg laws and when do 4) Q. To whom do these laws apply? they go mto effect? A. Any individual, 16 years of age or older, in the A. Generally stated, the new drug laws (Public State of New York, who may be sentenced ac- Health Law: Arl!cle 33; Mental Hygi~ne Law: cording to the laws described herein. Drug of- ~rllcle 81; Penal La~: Arllcle 220) provide that It fenders less than 16 years of age may be subject IS unlawful lot ~:my c11Izen to sel~, or possess cer- to different provisions under the Juvenile Delm- tam dr~~s, defmed by law as controlled sub- quent provisions in the Family Court Act. stances, except as expressly allowed by law. . . . ln the event that a person is arrested and S) Q. Is there any d1shnctlon between first and charged by the State with violation of these Jaws, second o~fenders? the laws provide--a schedule of crimes (classes ~· Not With regar~ to Class A or B drug posses- of felonies and misdemeanors-) and related pen- sion and sale felomes. . a !ties under which the person will be indicted, . Second offenders of drug possessiOn and sale tried, and acquitted or convicted. Clas~ C and Class D Felomes are classified re- , . . spectively as Class B and Class C offenders and These laws go mto effect throughout New subject to mandatory prison terms York State September L 1973. · 2) Q. How would these classifications of felonies and misdemeanors be described? A. The new law prescribes four classes of felo- nies (prison terms of more than one year) and one class of m1sdemeanor (prison tenn of up to and including one year). The most serious classification is the Class A Felony with three levels of penalties: A-1. A2, A-3. All of these crimes, involving the unlawful sale or possession of any narcotic drug or certain other dangerous drugs, carry mandatory life Im- prisonment sentences with mandatory minimum sentences before a person can be considered for parole. If paroled, an individual will remam on parole for the rest of his life. Certain cases m- volving Class A-3 feloni8S may be eligible for hfe probation in lieu of life Impnsonment Class B Felonies, with a mimmum 1 -year and a maximum 25-year prison term, cover the unlawful sale of any quantity of a narcotic prepa- ration to anyone under 21 yoorz of age, as well as a second offense of a Class C Felony. Class B Felomes also include 1-year to 25-year pnson tenus for a person committmg a Class C Felony possession drug offense for a second !Ime- ex- cept for mariinana. Bribery and bribe receiving dunng a drug case are classified as· B Felomes. Cons;Jiracy to commit an A Felony is classified as a B Felony. No probation is permitted if a person is convicted of this felony. Like B Felonies, Class C Felomes also pro- vide no probation except for marl)uana cases. These felonies carry !-year to 15-year pnson terms for the unlawful sale of narcotic preparations. danaeroos depressants (barbiturates), mariJuana and for unlawful possession of varymg amounts of certain drugs. Second offenders of D Felomes (sales) are mcluded in this classification. Receiving or givmg a reward for official misconduct with respect to a Class A Felony is a CFelony. Class D Felonies provide definite. mdeter- minate, or mtermittent prison terms for lesser druq offenses. Probation is avcrilable, Clas::; A Misdemeanors cover unlawful pos- session of any controlled substance m smaii amounts With a one-year maximum pnson sentence. 3) Q. What drugs are classified as \controlled substances\? 6) Q. Can anyone possess controlled substances without a prescription? A. No. You must have the drugs pursuant to a lawful prescription. These drugs do not include those purchased over-the-counter in any phar- macy without a prescription, e.g., cough medicine. Remember: It isn't a legal prescription if \you fooled the doctor.\ And you cannot give these drugs, legally prescribed for you to another per- son for whom they are not intended. 7) Q. Who is permitted to sell or possess controlled substances? A. Generally, licensed manufacturers, distribu- ters, practitioners (physicians, veterinarians, dentists and others), pharmacists, institutional dispensers (hospitals and others), certain public officials and certain individuals under specified conditions. The types of the drugs these groups may handle is prescribed by law (Controlled Substances Act). Individual citizens, not included above, may . possess any of these drugs pursuant to a lawful prescription issued by a practitioner in the course of professional treatment for legitimate medical purposes. 8) Q. How is marijuana classified in the new laws? A. Marijuana is shown as a Schedule I drug but not treated as other Schedule I drugs under this law. Unlawful sale of any amount of marijuana is a Class C Felony and unlawful possession a Class C or D Felony or a misdemeanor, depend- ing on the quantity involved. Probation is available for nearly all mari- juana first offenses. Under certain conditions in criminal prose- au tion, if the only charge is one of misdemeanor possession or of loitering (first degree), and where the only substance is marijuana, the court can order adjournment in contemplation of dismissal. not to exceed 12 months. If the individual com- plies with the terms set by the court. the charge will be automatically dismissed at the end of this time. 9)Q. Will plea bargaining be permitted? A. For Class A Felonies (after indictment), plea bargaining is restricted within the levels of the Class A Felony structure. However, if a person charged with a Class A Felony cooperates with the State concerning a drug offense case, the charge can be changed to life probatiqn. Generally, for other felony classifications. plea bargaining wiil be restricted to require that the plea be at least to a jelony charge when there is a rscord of a past felony conviction. 10) Q. Does the law provide any bounties for drug offenders? A. Yes. A $1.000 bounty for information leading to the arrest and convid~on of individuals unlaw- fully selling or possessing controlled substances 1 mder a Glass A Felony is offer!:ld. However, the reward is not given to the individual providing the information unless he is registered with Stdte authorities and the co:se results in conviction. The Difference .Between the New and Old Drug Laws U)Q. What are the differences between the new and old drug laws? . prison sentence. j' Arrested narctt1 ·.· ~da,ct commitment to the flstody Drug Abuse Control ~~omm occused has not 4f' prtl'vio¥-sJ a felony, (b) previo;u~lv' ~Em cotic addict purs.uant t~ the lv and, either (c) the charge age other than a Cla::. .{). ,Fsk4'Zly tomey consents to <Its '::l:l1::er chargeagainst him is \ misdE After a proper ;1edica court Can certffy tt-fe ::l.dic~ tc comm,.ission for one ar anc nal action in contem .lation charges. ·fl . 1 t!l· A. With regard to the Penal Law (Article 220), · these general changes have been made: Depending on th. ;,1r em colic addicts can be c51'Tt·Jhed and placed on probati~n by tl missi_on for in-patttnt it1{ ~.m maxnnum penod of one ye approve further afterc'~re tre< vision for a total o~five yews nies, and generally i~r e y:®bn (including in-patient reatmE l) the schedule of felonies and penalties has been increased to provide more levels (Class A2 and A-3 Felomes); 2) the· penalties are stricter with mandatory imprisonment for A. B and most C Felo- nies and rnaximum sentences of life prison terms for a11 A Felonies (or life pdrole if paroled); 3) the qudntit1es of drugs set for felony classes are considerably smaller, te .. sale of one ounce or more is an A-1 Felony under the new law, but sclle .of 16 ounces or more was the corresponding amount for the old law (quantities for possession offenses are similarly reduced); 4)more stringent penalties have been man- dated for second felony offenders gener-. ally, and a second offense of certain drug possession crimes constitutes the next· higher grade of felony; · drcumstances of eac · case individually to det3 lnet-af laws. These provisions o not , dent persons other th l. nqrc drug· dependent p~rs ns l'hu mitted, either prior to :::xny aJ prosecution, or after cquittc criminal prosecutioj. · ~. 17) Q, Is the criminal\ ... ~il'1ca1 narcotic addicts the '.!;·~(!.t-rite as previous laws? .., i ' \ ( A. No .. ~e pro:rision~ f. r~iin cr. narcotic add1ct have een a. to the conditions of probation of the State Drug ~~;1\.buse fb Criminal certification of h<ls been virtually elin:·mateci offenses. • fl 5) plea bargaming has been limited so that a Class A Felony cannot be pleaded down to less than a Class A-3 status and second- felony offenders cannot plead dc:Jwn to misdemeanor level (there are no restric- tions on plea bargaining under the old laws); The Drug-Dependent Person a 6) several new crimes have been created, Drug Abuse Treatment which are related to conspiracy to c?mmit · 18) Q. Where can a d~-drgp~dE an A Felony (B Felony), bnbery with re- drug abuse treatment pro&arr spect to an~ Felony CBFelony),o~d g~v- A. He can enter state (jr pnvc mg or receivmg a reward for official miS· _ difference betwee* the l\'d:\O conduct.(C Felony). follows: · ., f:~ The Drug-Dependent Person and the 1) for the state program (p New Drug. Laws l, 1973), he must first be . • il 12) Q. What is the definition of a drug-dependent person? A A drug-dependent person means a narcotic addict or a person who at the time of examma- lion IS dependent upon a controlled substance . listed in Schedules I-IIL except manjuana, or who by reason of the repeated use of any such sub- stance is in imminent danger of becoming de- pendent on such substance. A narcotic addict means a person who is, at the time of examina- tion, dependent upon opium, heroin, morphine, or any derivative or synthetic drug of that group or who, by reason of the repeated use of any such drug IS m imminent danger of becommg dependent upon these drugs. 13) Q. Is it a crime to be a drug-dependent person, even if he does not sell or possess unlawful drugs? A. No. It is not a crime to be q drug-dependent person or narcotic addict. The Penal Law applies to the unlawful sale or possession of the drugs outlined. 14) Q. Is there any distinction between a drug- dependent person and a pusher under the new drug laws? A. No distinction exists, The laws apply to any individual who unlawfully sells or possesses con- trolled 'substances. As indicated in the chart, distinction between sellers and possessors of con trolled substances exists according to amount under the felony penalty classes. 15) Q. What happens to d drug-dependent person or drug offender who is caught for committing another type of crime but does not unlawfully possess drugs? A. The individual is arrested and charged with the cnme he has committed. In the event that the mdividual is unlawfully possessing drugs at the time of his arrest. he will be charged and tried for both cnmes. If convicted, he may serve con- secul!ve sentences. 16) Q .. Is there a distinction between a non-drug- dependent person who is a drug offender and a drug-dependent person who is a drug offender under these laws? A. Genera!Iy, the law applies to anyone. be he drug-dependent or not. · However, certam provisions dre rnade in the law for the court to place certain narcotic addicts who have been conv1cted of certain Class C. D and E. Felonies on probation to State or pri- vate drug abuse treatment facilities in lieu of a under the law to the prog mg which preserves hiS cess of law as prov1ded b He will also bEJr~u ire-i· tc cal examination to certrf) dence. After SepJf).11Per J , quest and ret,jOlive J~m up to seven days while civil commitmentgoes.on 2) for the private1Pro1rrart1. r time and start tr~a~&ht. 19) Q. How does a drug-5y~endE the New York State Drug Abu mission's rehabilitafion pro~ra A. The procedure for civil co; custody of the commissiOn is as: l) Peti lion- the written ~q court asking for the certif dependent person to the ! Control Comm1ssiMn for· habilitation; • r q;> 2) Examination -'the pn:J'..:e~ statement of opm1on by as to wheth~ the Pers upon controi'led subs~dr III except mari)uana); ' 3) Evaluation- the court aJ port of the m~ical e.:c--m other evidence available 4) Determinal!on- the cour sion whether or not the · dependent peYson. 11 ' · If the couri deterrrnnes th drug-dependent per5Cin. then j the custody of the ,..Shte [iu~ Commission for a panod of pot yeors. A spouse, relative, fner dependent persorl'\Jtimself \'t.:i petition. If the drug-dep~nden petition the court. he is or;dered of the court. He is gi\en Q cQpY de-scription of the certification r him, and he is advised 'of his orders a medical examination- that the individual rmty be d~u~ A report of the medic;::al exa to the court for review. ~ · :he c< drug dependence pro ~~~' ~xil of the medical repo(.to • ~~·~IE dent pe~son and remin -~ ~~ the poss1ble outcome of rhhcc If the alleged dn~-d~pe;gdE in the petition does not bdmit

Pqge4 CONCORDIENSIS, Friday, October26, 1~73 ~ :]:§~ Pages S-6· 7-8 ~~: ~i~~::::::::====~=====:~=~=~;:::;:::~::::i~~:;:::::::::::::::::::::~:tfr~1 New York State Drug l:'urpose The following is intended to answer general quesc lions that N~w York State citi~ens may have regard- ing the new drug laws as they relate to law enJorcement and drug abuse treatment programs. .It should be noted that this information is of a general nature and not intended for individual situ- ations. Specific cases concerning the law should be discussed with appropriate legal counsel. Individuals seeking treatment should gontact the New York State Drug Abuse Control Commission at these telephone numbers: In New York City, 246-9300, Elsewhere in New York State (toll free) 800-522- 2193. Program The New York State Drug Abuse Program is a spe- cially created State-approved program to achieve these ends: · 1) to deter all citizens from abusing certain types of drugs, called \controlled substances\ by State law. and 2) to help rehabilitate any citizen who is. or may be in imminent danger of becoming, depen- dent on these drugs. The Program is based on New York State laws. pertaining to public health, mental hygiene, penal codes, and other related areas. It further represents the efforts of the State gov- ernment through the New York State Division of Criminal Justice Services and the N.Y. State Drug Abuse Control Commission (prior to September L . 1973. the New York State Narcotics Addiction Con- trol Commission) to implement and pubhcize the law enforcement and drug abuse treatment provisions of these laws. A. \Controlled substo:nces\ are drugs classified by New York State lo:w (Controlled Substances Act) into five groups or schedules (Schedules I~ V). These schedules follow federal law schedules for the same drugs. · The salient features of the five schedules and examples of drugs included for each schedule ere as follows: · l) Schedule I drugs are highly abusable substances which have no current ac- cepted medical use or lack accepted safety for use in treatment under medical supervision (heroin, LSD); 2) Schedule II drugs include substances with a high potential for abuse but which have an accepted or restricted medical use (cocaine, demerol. qrnphetamines, methadone); 3) Schedule ill substances may lead to moderate or low physical dependence or high psychological dependence, but have currently accepted medical uses in treat- ment of patients (the more potent bar- biturates and depressants); · 4) Schedule N drugs include tranquilizers, sedatives and other depressants; 5) Schedule V substances a·re cough prep- arations with minimal narcotic ingredients. Broadly described, these schedules include narcotic drugs (opium and opiates, heroin, mor- phine, codeine, etc.), amphetamines (\ups\), depressants (bc;:trbiturates, \doVIms\), and hallu- cinogens and hallucinogenic st~h:;tances (LSD, mescaline, peyote). Alcohol and nicotine are substances not included in these schedules or laws. A complete schedule of the drugs is listed in The New Drug Laws the back of this leaflet. 1) Q .. Wha~ are the new drug laws and when do 4) Q. To whom do these laws apply? they go mto effect? A. Any individuaL 16 years of age or older, in the A. Generally stated, the new drug laws (Public State ot New York, who may be sentenced ac- Health Law: Article 33; Mental Hygi~ne Law: cording to the laws described herein. Drug of- Article 81: Penal Law: Article 220) provide that 1t fen~ers less than 16 years of age may be subject IS unlawful fot any cJ!Jzen to sell or poss8ss cer- to different provisions under the Juvenile Delm- tOin dr~p-s. defined by law as \controlled sub- quent provisions in the family Court Act. stances, except as expressly allowed by law. . . . In the event that a person is arrested and 5 ) Q. Is there any d1shnchon between first and charged by the State w1th V1olat1on of these Jaws. second o~fenders? the laws provide a schedule of crimes (classes ~- Not With regard to Class A or B drug posses- of felonies and misdemeanors) and related pen- Slon and sale felomes. . allies under wh1ch the person wiJI be indicted, SecondoffendersofdrugpossesSlonandsale tried, and acquitted or convicted. Clas~ C and Class D Felomes are classified re- , . • spectlvely as Class B and Class C offenders and These laws go Into effect throughout New subject to mandatory prison terms York State September L 1973. · 2) Q. How would these classifications of felonies and misdemeanors be described? A. The new law prescribes four classes of felo, nies (prison terms of more thc:tn one year) and one class of misdemeanor (prison term of up to and including one year). The most serious classification is the Class A Felony with three levels of penalties: A-1. A-2. A-3. All of these crimes, involving the unlawful sale or possession of any narcotic drug or certain other dangerous drugs, carry mandatory life Im· prisonment sentences with mandatory minimum sentences before a person can be considered for parole. If paroled, an individual will remain on parole for the rest of his life. Certain cases in· volving Class A-3 FeloniP-s may be eligible for hie probation in lieu of life imprisonment. Class B felonies. with a minimum I -year and a maximum 25-year prison term, cover the unlawful sale of any quantity of a narcollc prepa- ration to anyone under 21 yea;-3 of age. as well as a second offense of a Class C Felony. Class B felonies also include 1-year t, 1 25-year pnson terms for a person committmg a Class C Felony possession drug offense for a second 11me- ex- cept for mari i1mna. Bribery and bnbe receiving dunng a drug case are classihed as· B Felonies. Conspiracy to commit an A Felony is classified as a B Felony. No probation is permitted if a person IS corwicted of this felony. Like B Felonies, Class C Felomes also pro- vide no probation except for man1uana cases. These felonies carry !-year !o 15-year pnson terms for the unlawful sale of narcotic preparations. danoeroos depressants (barbiturates). man)uana and for unlawful possession of varymg amounts of certain drugs. Second offenders of D Felomes (.sales) are mcluded in this classification. Receiving or givmg a reward for official misconduct with respect to a Class A Felony IS a CFelony. Class D Felomes provide defimte, indeter· minate, or mtermlttent prison terms for lesser druq offenses. Probation is available. Clas:;; A Misdemeanors cover unlawful pos· session of any controlled substance m small amounts with a one-year mmomum pnson sentence. 3) Q. What drugs are classified as \controlled substances\? 6) Q. Can anyone possess controlled substances without a prescription? A. No. You must have the drugs pursuant to a lawful prescription. These drugs do not include those purchased over-the-counter in any phar- macy without a prescription, e.g., cough medicine. Remember: It isn't a legal prescription if \you fooled the doctor.\ And you cannot give th~se drugs, legally prescribed for you to another per- son for whom they are not intended. 7) Q. Who is permitted to sell or possess controlled substances? A. Generally, licensed manufacturers, distribu- ters, practitioners (physicians, veterinarians, dentists and others), pharmacists, institutional dispensers (hospitals and others), certain public officials and certain individuals under specified conditions. The types of the drugs these groups may handle is prescribed by law (Controlled Substances Act). Individual citizens, not included above, may. possess any of these drugs pursuant to a lawful prescription issued by a practitioner in the course of professional treatment for legitimate medical purposes. 8) Q. How is marijuana classified in the new laws? A. Marijuana is shown as a Schedule I drug but not treated as other Schedule I drugs under this law. Unlawful sale of any amount of marijuana is a Class C Felony and unlawful possession a Class C or D Felony or a misdemeanor, depend- ing on the quantity involved. Probation is available for nearly all mari- juana first offenses. Under certain conditions in criminal prose- cution, if the only charge is one of misdemeanor possession or of loitering (first degree), and where the only substance is marijuana, the court can order adjournment in contemplation of dismissal. not to exceed 12 months. If the individual com- plies with the terms set by the court. the chetrge will be automatically dismissed at the end of this time. 9) Q. Will plea bargaining be permitted? A. For Class A Felonies (after indictment), plea bargaining is restricted within the levels of the Class A felony structure. However, if a person charged with a Class A Felony cooperates with the State concerning a drug offense case, the charge can be changed to 1 ife probation. Generally, for other felony classifications. plea bargaining wHl be restricted to require that the plea be at least to a felony charge when there is a record of a. past felony conviction. 10) Q. Does the law provide any bounties ·for drug offend era? A. Yes. A $1;000 bounty for information leading to the arrest and convict:on of indivicluals unlaw- fu1ly selling or possessing controlled substances , mder a Class A Felony is offered. However, the reward is not given to the individuol providing the information unless he is registered with State authorities and the case results in conviction. The Difference Betwe$tl the New and. Old Drug Laws 11) Q What are the differences between the new and old drug laws? A. With regard to the Penal Law (Article 220), these general changes have been made: l) the schedule of felonies and penail!es has been mcreased to provide more levels (Class A-2 and A-3 Felomes); 2) the penalties are stncter with mandatory imprisonment lor A. B and most C Felo\ nies and maximum sentences of life prison terms ·for all A Felonies (or life parole if paroled); 3) the quantilles of drugs set for felony classes are considerably smaller, t.e .. sale of one ounce or more is an A-1 Felony under the new law. but sale of. 16 ounces or more was the corresponding amount for the old law (quantities for possession offenses are similarly reduced): 4) more stringent penalties have been man· dated for second felony offenders gener· ally, and a second offense of certain drug possession crimes constitutes the next· higher grade of felony: maximum p~nod approve further VISion for a total nies, and generally (.including in-rv<t•cm · circumstances of individually to laws. These provisions dent persons other drug dependent milled, either prior prosecution, or after criminal prosecutlo;i. 17) Q. Is the crimincrr narcotic addicts the previous laws? '3. A. No. The provisiomt. a narcotic addict have to the conditions of of the State Drug 5) plea bargaming has been limited so that a Class A felony cannot be pleaded down to less than a Class A3 status and second- felony offenders cannot plead down to Criminal certi misdemeanor level (there are no restric- has been virtually lions on plea bargaining under the old offenses. laws); The ug·-DElpendent 6) several new crimes have been created, Drug Abuse which are related to conspiracy to commit · 18) Q. Where can a an A felony (B felony), bribery with re- drug abuse tro:>ntrno:>1nt spect to an A Felony (B Felony), and giv- A. He can enter \'rr'\\\ ing or receiving a reward for official mis- difference bet.,veers:. conduct (C Felony). follows: · The Drug-Dependent Person and the l) for the state New Drug Laws l. 1973), he \\'-''\Ill l2) Q. What is the definition of a drug-dependent person? A A drug-dependent person means a narcotic addict or a person who at the time of examma- tion IS dependent upon a controlled substance listed in Schedules I-III, except mariJuana, or who by reason of the repeated use of any such sub- stance is in imminent danger of becoming de- pendent on such substance. A narcotic addict means a person who is, at the time of examina- tion. dependent upon opium, heroin, morphine, dr any derivative or synthetic drug of that group or who, by reason of the repeated use of any such drug is m Imminent danger of becommg dependent upon these drugs. 13) Q. Is it a crime to be a drug-dependent person, even if he does not sell or possess unlawful drugs? A. No. It 1s not a crime to be a drug-dependent person or narcotic addict. The Penal Law applies to the unlawful sale or possession of the drugs outlined. 14) Q. Is there any distinction between a drug- dependent person and a pusher under the new drug laws? A. No distinction exists. The laws apply to any individual who unlawfully sells or possesses con- trolled ·substances. As indicated in the chart. distinction between sellers and possessors of controlled substances ex1sts accordmg to amount under the felony penalty classes. 15) Q. What happens to d drug-dependent person or drug offender who is caught for committing another type of crime but does not unlawfully possess drugs? A. The individual is arrested and charged with the cnme he has committed. In the event that the md1vidual Is unlawfully possessing drugs at the tlme of his arrest, he will be charged and tried for both crimes. If convicted, he may serV-e con- secutive sentences. 16) Q .. Is there a distinction between a non-drug- dependent person who is a drug offender and a drug-dependent person who is a drug offender under these laws? A. Generally. the law appl!es to anyone. be he drug·-dependent or not ' However, certam provisions are rnade in the law for the court to place certain narcotic addicts who have been con v1cted of certainClass C. D and E Felomes on probation to State or pri- vate drug abuse treatment facilities in heu of a mission's rella.l>ili.ta1!iorU A. The procedure for custody of the cornm.issit l) Petition- the court asking for dependent noreor. ... Control habilitation; ., 2) Examination statement of as to whethe.{ · upon control'ioo III except 3) Evaluation-the port of the mc.rl other evidence 4) Determination- sian whether dependent~\·\\'~ If the court rl<=>.t<=>rmll' drug-dependent \'\''\\'\'' the custody of the , Commission lor a ,..,,.,,.;\\· • (I ,. ... • (/.

• (I ,. ,·r ,/ ' ••• • ' ... ·Voi.2No.1 The Uni,on College Black Student's Alliance Newspaper October 26, 1913-. . . ' CARVER HEALTH. CENTER Supportive Health Care 'the Carver Comprehensive Community Health Center provides much needed health !lervices to the residents of the Hamilton Hill community. Services inclUde: adult medical care, pediatric tfa~e, dental care, and pap smear testmg. Supportive aid is given by three health related agencies; The Well Baby Clinic, which is sponsored by the City Public Health Department, the Planned Parenthood League of -Schenectady, and the Mental Health extention of the Ellis Hospital. Backup clinical support ill given by the Ellis Hospital in relation-ship to laboratory !lervices, X-rays, EKG's, and !>pecialist consuitation. · family centered health care is provided for the community on an ambulatory basis which is the foundation of preventive medicine. At the health center patients are registered, given appointments, and scheduled for routine physicals and lab tests. When all the results are known, a problem list is developed and the patient is treated in order of priority. On completion of treatment, the patient is then referred to oth.er providers of health care within our system. There is also a neighborhood health outreach program where patients learn about home health care: In this program, follow-up Sonia Pearso~ l-ervices are rendered and health education is taught. The Carver Comprehensive Community Health Center was funded for .J973. Funding was passed on to Carver by this method: HEW took the Regional Medical Program Services in Washington D.C. and gave it to 54 regions through-out the U.S.A Albany Regional Medical Program is one .of these regions and they fund 24 projects in upstate New York. On April II, 197 3, they received word from the Albany Regional Medical . Program saying that they were not going to be funded after June 30, 1973, therefore, the Health Center looked for other sourcesof funding. In early July of 1973, there was a change in the political tide in relationship to the federal government. President Nixon ~igned the bill for continuing :.upport of medical programs and it was to be effective July I, 1973 until June 30, 1974. During that time, it was anticipated that some guidelines would be developed for a three year continued funding. to enable on-going health centers to become self-supporting. On September 13, 1973, the Carver Comprehensive Community Health Center was informed by the Albany Regional Medical rrogram that they were !opecifically advised not to fund two patient service projects namely the Carver Comprehensive Community Health Ce!lter and the South End Neighborhood Center in Albany, t0 ~e effective immediately. Mr. Bishop, the Project Director for the Carver Comprehensive 1 Community Health Center, had this to :-ay, \In accordance with Regional Medical Program ~ervice guidelines and their established priorities, I'm assuming that that was the reason they stopped funding the patient l-ervice projects.\ Fiscally, the Carver Comprehensive Community Health Center can only survive until OcMber Jl, 1973 without emergency funding. Mr. Bishop l-aid. \We ltave been successful in our appeal to the local government~ the City Council of Schenectady, for emergency funding of $10,000.00 which would enable us to provide ~ervices for the community of H ami! ton Hill until December JIst of this year. No firm commitment ,has been made on a l~ng range basis for fiscat 1974, and unless we do receive funds for next year, unfortunately, our center may have to close. Our main concern is if we are forced to close, where would our patients go for the types of services we have been providing?\ . . I the brothers a·nd his old lady hope it doesn't happen again come in and told how a group .of because there are a lot of quiet white students had just asked brothers and sisters around like them \Where do you think you her, and if a.ll of them ever get nigger bitches are going?\ as the . mad . couple strolled across campus. The two could only walk on, being out-numbered. Well - - --- ~ ;photo by Gene's Studios Mrs. Margeret Cunningham, who organized the benefit, starring the Burundi Dancers, for the Hamilton Hill Drop-In Arts Center given on Sunday. Oct. 21. Black Business November 1st marks the grand opening of the J. and J. Music Hut (boo\ks and boutique) at 705 Craig Street, Schenectady. The ~tore is being opened by two young brothers, W. C. Johnson and James D. Johnson, who will be selling the following items: records (45's, LP's) and tapes (8 track, cassettes), Black greeting cards, Afro jewelry, African art, posters, Afro literature, incense, body oil, patches, liberation decals, picks, combs, wigs, afro· conditioners and a line of Black newspapers. Adding to its unlimited variety of merchandise, the J. and J. music hut will be original in design and location. The store will be open Tuesday- Saturday, 11:00 a.m.-7:00 p.m., and closed Sunday and Monday. The owners feel that there is a need for the Music Hut in the Black community. - This is the first installment of an off-and-on series depicting experiences of Blgck students on Union's campus. The series is entitled \The Case Against Union\ and is designed to give outsiders an idea of what Black l-tudents have to put up with at this great, white, liberal institution of higher learning. * * *' * needless to say, nobody in the House wanted to let such a question go un.-answered, so a delegation went forth to give the rroper and righteous response. Luckily, the sinners were not found, because some of the .Controversial Name Ralph Ellison showed how white folks· think we're \Invisible\ .,..men. I had originally intended to prove the·sanie point by showing how the administrators of Union have \forgotten\ Black students during the first weeks of this term. My mind was changed. however, when two incidents illustrated to me that we aren't as invisible as Bro. Ralph thought we were. The first incident began innocently enough when someone pointed out the forbidden word ''niggers!\ written on the side of the Black House. I was only half- angry because I learned the word had been there since the beginning of school. And besides, the culprit most likely needed an l\Utlet for his frustration beca·use 'omeohe ·had probably told hi.n;J 1 hat his gra:ndpa used to htH1g out in the .slave quart~rs. Anyway,.· ... orne, peop.le in the House were 'till talking about it when on~ of Black Student .Alliance brothers meant to do some heavy During the Jast meeting of the rreaching. After all, when all of· BSAtthe proposal ofchanging the God's chillen get mad, the devil name of the organization to the has got to step aside. Third World Alliance (TWA) or The other incident happened the Black and Latin Student the following night. One of the Alliance (BLSA) was presented to ~isters was called to the phone- the floor. lHe suggestion was <ind she was grinning all big overruled by the majority of the hecause she just knew it was one members. After the meeting, I felt of her fellas. Anyway, her caller that the true meaning of the told her \You niggers ain't shit\ \third world'' W<\S unclear in and hung up. AI first she was many of the members' minds. only surprised, but then she got W. Andrew Axline, in his book madder than my momma used to The Global (()mmunity, describes get at my daddy and started the third world as being .. cussing and ·kicking things fot Third World. m the about 5 minutes. Frankly, the call underdeveloped countries of made me even mad because I was Latin America. Africa, the trying ·to rap to her and. now, I Middle East. and Asia don'£ know if cl want to if she gets .\VirfuaHv everv state in the mad. over hearit1g something her lhird WOI'Id · includes large captor\s been trying to tell her unassimilaNe minorities.\ As we ~::ver !Iince she was .b0Tri. I just can see. frim1 tl1ese assertions from t ..... ·' j f Axline's book, the people in the Third World are not Caucasian, (except for the power leaders in !lOme commonwealths, territories, ... ) but ''colored,\ (dark-skin, dark races). The word ''minorities~· also supports my optnton. Therefore, if the mganization ~hanged its name to the Third World Alliance, it would include all people of color ~uch as Indians, Chinese, Spaniards, etc. The argument that if one is colored then one is considered black is true in the I lnited States, but not necessarily true in one's native lands. For example, if L as a Puerto Rican. went to Puerto Rico. I would he classified as a ''iriguena,\ which meam of light brown ~kin. If I were of darker 'kin. l would he classified as \de riel rnorena\ or '''\legra.\ In essence, what I would like to make more clear is, in the United States I am black and ·consider myself black, however, on my island I am black, but a shade called \triguena.\ Therefore, again I state my position now as being indifferent. Alter all, what is in a name if the organization has no accomplishments? My point is that there were invalid arguments against the title TWA and I wanted to set the facts straight. I !>Uggest that in later meetings when a subject of this nature arises, that the chairman suggest the proposal, have'peopJethink of the matter for a few days, discuss tl!o pros and cons at the next meeting-and then \ote. In this manner. people w11l be able to have logical and valid arguments c'it her tor or ngainst an issue. s. ,H.

Page6 Definition When you start a project for the good of your own people, such as a community . newspaper, you run into a lot of resistance that slowly begins to affect even you. After a while, you begin to ask yourself, uls it important? Will it help my people? Do people take noter, After a while, you begin to realize that your own doubts lie very , J;t •• · •• close to the surface and need only the slightest scratch to become visible. If you are a Black person, you have discovered that you are not really sure if what you are doing is really BLACK. You have discovered that you really don't know what H Black'' means - you do not have a proper definition. We can all name Black heroes, but few of us realize that our heroes have differing philosophies about the right thing for Black people. Marcus Garvey, Elijah Mohammed and Martin Luther King are all generally recognized as Black heroes, even though two of them advocated complete Black/ White separation and the other encouraged integration. Each has a different definition of what it is to be Black. All of them influence Black political thinking and all of them have strong and loyal followers who work to carry out the goals of the leader. The trouble with Black people is that there are too many heroes with strong and loyal followers. That is why the \Superfly types can easily call themselves Black while selling hard drugs to 15-year-olds and prostituting beautiful black women. Besides encouraging some of us to destroy our minds, bodies and souls, ~'Superfly', influences even more of us to believe that a big shiny car and usupefjly'' clothes mean we are Black (as long as our jros are the proper length.) But we know that that just can't bell because there are still poor, starving Black people suffering at the hands of the slave-master: and there are more poor Black people than there are u Super fly's.,, With our skills and knowledge, we can build the Black Nation. And in the Nation, there will be room for all of our Black heroes. But the only way we can build the Nation is to get rid of the confusion and define uBlack'' in the right way. uBlack, is anything that makes all non-white people free. * * * * Last Spring, we asked the Community for financial help to assist us in publishing another issue of Perspective. Although we didn't raise enough, we did raise some funds. We have decided to donate half of the proceeds of last spring's art exhibit to Mrs. Margaret Cunningham and the Drop- In Art Center on Hamilton Hill. We would like to thank Mrs. Cunningham and the other peop;e who helped us last spring: Mr. Pete Thomas, Mrs. Marzola LeFlore, Mrs. Dix, Mrs. James Bishop, Mrs. Reid, Mrs. Lorretta Walker, Reverend Taylor, NAACP, Carver Community Center, and all the rest. All power and all praises. The percussion section of the Burundi Dancers. From Pla,n t.o Planet Bro. Don L. Lee, poet, author, instructor at Howard U.and publisher of Broadside Pr$!SS has ~et forth this book as a ground breaking work from I PE (.Institute of Positive Education) and directed itself to working and building of Afrikan minds and institutions so that we as black people will be able to deal with ourselves and White America. This article is intended .to bring to light the main ideas of Don Lee's work. The central message Bro. Don Lee focuses upon is the adoption of Nguzo Saba (Black Value' System) which, as he puts it, \incorporates all known religious· and political systems and adopts them to our Afrikan .selves.\ The ~even principles of Nguzo Saba as originated by Maulama Karenga, founder of US and reactivated by lmamu Baraka are U moja (Unity), Kujichagu·lia (Self Determination), Ujima (Collective Work and Responsibility), Ujaonaa (Co-operative Economics), Nia (Purpose), Kuumba (Creativity), and lmani (Faith). He emphasizes that the adoption of such a lifestyle is not an overnight process and does not allow for accepting whichever principles that may suit your frame of reference, but must be a total comhlitment. ·A·s Don Lee puts it, .. to accept Kuumba without the other six Principles is like accepting an arm without the body: If the arm is disconnected from the body, you'll get a few ,, William L. Shockley ~econds .of use, but it will soon die because· the .ann can't .stand alone. f'rom Plan to Planet d~lues upon many aspe~ts of Blackness and expresses points which require recognition and consideration by any black person. I have summarized and hrietly described the more ~ignificant points below. , (I) The basis of blackness is color, consciousness, and Culture. The three criteria for culture are awareness. acce.ptance, and practice. (2) The universal basis of existence stresses the heed for identity, purpose, and direction. ( 3) He emphasizes the need for a positive assessment of life instead of the negative exemplified by his advoc;ation of being \pro-Afrikan\ not \anti~ white.\ ( 4) Guard against allowing ourselves to fall prey to three corruptors of the mind: money, nower. and sex. i-laving had the fortune to have heard Bro. Don Lee lecture at Fisk U. in Se,ptember of the year, with an address primarily intended for the freshman class !·here. but a lecture I feei relevant to all students, he emphasized the •need for Wod<, Study, and Creation. He sarcastically 4uipped that the 3R's ·Of learning have become \ripple reefer, and rappin\ cautioning us to take heed. Finally, in his message he ~tated that it is our duty to relate to the community and not come to college and cut ourselves off just because there exists a gate ·between the college grounds 11nd the community. From Plan to Planet is a work l consider masterful in every sense in that it\ interesting reading, literally \relevant informs us to · the centext of an ideology, and ~hows the brilliance of a man of rhough.t, man of action. I consider this book well worth your time. PERSONNEL Sabe Araya, Marilyn Beeton, Sadama Horns, Stephen B. Lewis; Roger A. McDonald COMMUNITY PERSONNEL: Kris Upshur, 377-0173 James Houstonf 372.;2585 T. Watts, Editor, 1301 Lenox Rd. Schenectady, N.Y.l2308 The deadline for the next issue is Mon., Nov. 5, 1973 • • • , CAtV~t) 1'. t! 't. . . ~~,~. 1 I . I) ,, : \\ . ' • '.0:~ ...., 1.\\' C !I ..... ~I\\' (?r I ' 't .. io. ·ll ~ I ... '· ,!l) li! ... il\ ~ ... -- .... D • • :tl' • ... ~ .s~-, ,- ~- ~ p f\. \ (l .. '• \) .~ ,, ( ~ t ./ ' .Th .J!P. ~ •

• t\ tt. ' 1(1• .. ~ . d; ~ .. ..,. ' :. -(~ \'~I\\' 0 II I <Ill .. ,, '~ ·1} 4l l ... lll .. ... II\ ~ ... ~ .... • • :!J' • \\ ol: ~---' ,~ Ill, ~ ~~ \,I 1!11' ... . P ERSPECTJVE; Friday, October 26, 1973 Page 7 Political action! ON ••• OFF! Well, another school' year has begun and along _with the school year !iocio-political interel?t has intensified, Summer partying was fine and so was the break from the helter-skelter of academia. But, with the continuing developments of Waterg~te, the battle over t-.he tapes, Spiro's voluntary-involuntary \vacation black people coUldn't help but be drowned In the political goings-on !!Hd goings-off, of the p.oiitical power structure of \these United States of America,\· to which all fhe toilet seats stand. The only plus in being in the position t:hat Black Ame·ricans ·ate \in is that they didn't have anything to do with or any influence in the election af Nixon or his cronies. RAM Massachusetts doesn't have the only people able to say ' 1 1 told you so ... \ .But the sad thing ·is that Black Americans have never had the chance to change the ou.tcome or. infl'wence such a powerful · political election on a nat·ional level. This is mainly because of the small minority of eligible. electors and its small population percentage. Tile Qnly position Black Americans have held was that of the innocent bystander, whether participating or not. When the. hearings on Watergate are on, or the news media is flooding the headlines with \political corruption in the administration\ you will see black neople watching with disinterest Judas and Upward Bound Oo,.. Haren Carl Anderson, theatre star of hot h the Motion Picture Industry's venion ant;! the controversial Broadway Musical Production of Jesus Christ Superstar, layed a visit on Union, Saturday, October 20, 1973. The dynamic Black vocali~t ~poke to the students of the lipward Bound Program, and proved to be the highpoint of their weekly Saturday program. Students, as well as other member~ of the community found. and used this opportunity to pose varied questions to Carl. Each answer, in my humble estimation, was more than adequate, in fo.rce and substance. Most of the inquisition was directed to the dynamics · ~urrounding the birth of a star; hut attention was found to be directecf to a bit of the reality of Judus arid Jesus Christ Superstar. J. Anthony Sharp, Director ·of the Upward Bound Program, ~erved as .the medium necessary to acquire the noted performer for an enriching experience for the Co-eds of Upward Bound. Mr. Anderson and Mr. Sharp are friends of old, a.nd have a mutual sense of dedicat·ion to the uplift of disaffected people, as depicted by his answers and comments to the audience. The magnetic vocalist also mentioned the scheduled release of his first album, which should he launced around the beginning of the \New Year.\ The Brother's album will undoubtedly begin ina \rush\ and end as if it were an all conquering Bomb Carl Anderson!!!!! or Iin1ited disinterest which is inevitable of an invisible. people. It's n<Jt their problem and they didn't make nor create the problem. 1he coneentration must he of lbcal interest, for it's the only outlet' - like it or not! Nex:.t issue - Black Woman and Woman's Lib!? Community Happenings Voiunteers are needed to drive a van on Saturdays for an hour or two to distribute dona ted furniture to needy pefsons in· the community. Contact Mrs. Marzola LeFlore, or call the Black House at U.C. The House phone number is 372·9772. * * * * The Black Student Alliance of Schenectady County Community College is having a Fall Fashion Show Sunday, October 28 in the Ballroom of SCCC.. The program ~tarts at 6 p.m., and tickets are $2.00. Call Kris Upshur (377-0173) or f.ames Houston (372-2585) for notices for this column. * * * * The Hamilton H iU Drop-in Arts Center is in desperate need of financial and volunteer help to carry out its community program. Contact Mrs. Margaret Cunningham or anyone at the Arts Center, located at 421 Schenectady St. Discover Upward Bound photo by Gene's Studios The Burundi Dancers, who donated their services for the benefit given for the Drop-in Arts Center. ~=-:-::·;=======+r .~ ... .. Georg~'s ') v.Jere ~ ovT\D M-e;, (TW~ (il) r-e {.ord; 'Music Store'· .. ~ 508 State St • Schenecta~y . , Tel. 374-5921 College Discount =········~····· = THE I ·a Other Side ! 5 of Today 5 I ~~Handcrafted & I • Imported Items\ li • • • 135 JAY ST. • • • • Tel. 377-0477 8 ••••••••••••••••

PageS I . PERSPECTIVE ·. Friday, October 26, 1973' GHETTO SONG by CALVIN ANDERSON 125th street 1-2-5 street and Lenox Av. $1.25 street and Park Av. Black collage of human combat in the midst of rat ana roach racial warfare. Where blond colored Black minds find peace and solitude when they hear black music soul music, the only music, . Jazz. Where Black Minds find solitude doin' the penguin to the heart beat of Thelonius Monk And yet we's emanscipated ... Harlem Har-lemm and I wanna get some sleep I wantsta close my eyes, I wantsta close iny eyes and let my emotions fall through their paths in my face: I want to fill my face with sparkling emotional streams and close my eyes I wantsta, I wantsta but as John tickles my toes Ben licks my~.face and I been robbed, I been robbed. \ I been rob bed as the sun shines through the cracks in my walls and magnifies the silouettes of the Rat and Roach Quintet of my pad. I been robbed as some nigger from across the street at the Apollo Theater sings maybe tomorrow Maybe tomorrow a gentle wind will float between the tenement teeth of Harlem's decaying mouth Maybe tomorrow .... somebody's gonna pour some scope in the streets of Harlem and . cool Harlem's hot breath. MAY-be tomorrow ... constitutionalized cannibals gonna REALize that Biafra ain't in Africa, India ain't in Asia, and Hungary ain't no country it's my empty stomach!. And as the moon light settles anc:f my only comfort is Monk, Mingus, Parker, Lewis, COL-TRANE and hallucinations, and my mind recalls my kingdoms my mind recalls my kingdoms as the sax o:phone screams and the images of Black ladies dance aro~nd prismic fires, and the saxophones screams. and my mind recalls my kingdoms a~ ·Coltrane Screams ... and Mingus fondles the strin~s of my soul and the walls of my mind are swollen_ with Black thoughts as flutes scale my castle and Monk brings it down to grassroots, and as his hands float down the key boards my thoughts come tumbling down, down to t4_e earth of present time reality. Reality where my eyes fall from my mind to concentrate on the realism that although Fred is dead Ben ain't. .. and the time is right to move on ... and the time is right to move on Past the world where mama's tit's are tired of injections. Past the world where John is the eldest male of the household. Past the world where heroin adicts dream of white christmas's as long as it exists in ceHophane sacks as I Walk downtown downhome through the grass roots of I 25th street , 1-2-5 street and Lenox Av. , $1.25 street and Park A v. I ·i -.) t;' . . ,., . ,,.. ~quest r cerlificatio the State] for treatn '

.. ·•· , ' ~~ ...... . 'I,,. • I • 11 tence. j' narctti ·.:~da'lc:ts can apply for CJV!l to the .'tstody Df New York State se Control tlijommission provided the not-~' prtf.lVio.'f;siy been convicted of previoiUPiy'bilen found. to be a nar- pursuant to the Mental Hygiene Law (c) the charge against him 1s d felony a Cla:;Jt A ,:~k§ny and the d1stnct at- to <Its '.::1:\. \tertHication or ~d) the him is : misdemeanor. a proper :1edical examination. the ~e ::l.did' to the custody of the for one ar and ad)Ourn the criml- in contem lation -of dism1ssal of the ft . I ~ on th' ~1r cases. conv1cted nar- Is can be c6yrt·1hed as narcotic addicts · on probation by the court to the com- in-pattfTJdt~~ment for a statutory period of one year. The court can r· rther afterc~re treatment with super- total o~hv . yewsprobation for felo- f~r ~ y®ars for misdemeanors in-patient reatment). However. the of eac · case must be reviewed to d~ tnet'appllcation of these .CONCORDIENSJS, Friday, October 26, 1973 law Information he has the right to have the issue determined by either a judge or jury. . During all steps of the certification process the drug -dependent person has the right to coun- sel (~ourt provided, if he cannot find his own). 20) Q. What kinds of treatment does the State Drug Abuse Control Commission offer? A. A variety of programs including residential. _ex-addict directed, methadone maintenance. among others. The first concern of the Commis- sion is to find an in-patientand aftercare program tho:t is suited to the individua:J needs of the drug- dependent person. Trained personnel evaluate . each case individually and. based on that evalu- ation, determine what immediate and long-term steps should be followed. This program is ad- justed as the individual·progresses through rehabilitation. 2l}Q. Is the methadone maintenance program available to everyone? A. No. In !oct, qmte stnct requirements must be met for anyone to enter the program to minimize potentially severe consequences. The physical condition, age .. length of timedependen ton drugs are among the factors consideFed to deterrnme if a persun is eligible to enter this program. 17) Dimepheptanol. 18) Dimethylthiambutene. 19) Dioxaphetyl butyrate. 20) Dipipanone. 21) Ethylmethylthiambutene. 22) Etortitazene. 23) Etoxeridine. 24} Furethidine. 25) Hydroxypethidine. 26) Ketobemidone. 27) Levomoramide. 28) Levophenacylmorphan. 29) Morpheridine. 30) Noracyrnethadol. 31) Norlevorphanol. 32) Normethadone. 33) Norpipanone. . · 34) Phenadoxone. 35) Phenampromide. 36) Phenomorphan. 37) Phenopetidine. 38) Piritramide. 39) Proheptazine. 40) Properidine. 41) Racemoramide. 42) Trimeperidine. provisions o not cover drug-depen- other th 1 narcotic addlCts. Other p~rs ns ~nust be Civilly com- prior to :::1ny arrest and criminal or after . 'cquittal of charges in a ·The New York State Program and the b) Unless specifically excepted or unless hsted in another schedule, any -of the following opium deriv· atives, their salts, isomers, and salts of isomers whenever the existence of such salts. isomers, and salts of isomers is possible withm the specific chemi- cal designation: ~ ' ''l \l ,~ 1 ~ii.~cation provision for the f~· e as the one under the .. ...._; \. ~. l r,;¢i'tuninal certification of have een altered with respect of probation under the custody Drug 1(;1\buse €ontrol Commission. certificatJon of convicted addicts elin:·mated except for lesser • ll dent J?erson and •• . d); a dru!i-df-Jp~dent person enter a treatment program? state cjr pnvate programs. The betvvee• the 1'4:·o programs is as ~-· f .... r~ state program (prior to September 3), he must first be civilly committed .. a. the law to the program in a proceed- preserves hts ttghts to due pro- law as prov1ded by theConshtu I ton. alsobEJrequire.:: to undergo a medi· to certify his drug depen- Sep~;n\:>er j, 1973. he can re- and r6q3ive 1!llmediate treatment days while the procedure of goes on. New Drug Laws _ 22) Q.How does. the State plan to enforce the new drug law? A. The State has developed a comprehensive plan that does more than enforce the new drug law. The State is spending $66.3 million to pro- vide more fac1lities ·and personnel not only for law enforcement but also for drug abuse treat- ment. These funds will add up to 100 JUdicial parts (personnel and facilities to conduct trials). ex- pand detention and prison facilities, and increase drug treatment programs for accommodation of 65,000 drug-dependent individuals. As pomted out in the introductory statement. the intent of this program is to deter people from drug abuse and to rehabilitate those persons who are, or may become, dependRnt :.n those drugs indicated in the new law. 23) Q. What can the individual citizen· do to abide by this law? A. If you use prescriptlon drugs, be sure that you have these drugs pursuant to a lawful prescrip- tion issued by a practitioner (physician, dentist. erc.1 m me course ot proress1ona1 treatment ror legitimate medical purposes and that you keep the drug in the original container in which it was dispensed. If you use any medicines, follow these steps: l) read and follow all label directions carefully; 2) date all medicines; l) Acetorphine. 2) Acetyldihydrocodeine. 3) Benzylmorphine. 4) Codeine methylbrom1de. 5) Codeine-N-Oxide. 6) Cypremorphine. 7) Desomorphine. 8) Dihydromorphine. 9) Etorphine. 10) Heroin. 11) Hydromorphinol. 12) Methyldesorphine. \\5''- 13) Methylhydromorphine. 14) Morphine methylbromide. 15) Morphine methylsulfonate. 16) Morphine-N-Oxide. 17) Myrophine. 18) Ntcocodeine. 19) Nicomorphine. 20) Normorphine. 21). Pholeodeine. 22) Thebacon. c) Unless specifically excef>ted or unless listed in another schedule, any material. compound. mixture, or preparation, which contains any quantity of the following hallucinogenic substances, or which con- tains any of their salts, isomers, and salts of isomers whenever the existence of such salts, isomers. and salts of isomers is possible within the specific chemi- cal designation: l) 3, 4-methylenedioxy amphetamine. 2) 5-methoxy-3, 4-methylenedioxy amphetamine. Page9 eluding their isomers, esters. ethers, salts. and salts of 1somers. esters and ethers. whenever the exts· tence of s.uch Isomers. esters. ethers. and salts ts possible withm the spectflc chemtcal des1gnat1on: 1) Alphaprodme. 2) Anilendme. 3) Bezitram1de. 4) Dihydrocodeme. 5) Dtphenoxylate. 6) Fentanyl. 7) Isomethadone. 8) Levomethorphan. 9) Levorphanol. 10) Metazocine. 11) Methadone. 12) Methadone- Intermediate, 4-cyano- 2-dimethylamino-4, 4-dlphenyl butane. 13) Moramide-Intermediate. 2-methyl-3- morpholino-l. 1-diphenylpropane- carboxylic acid. 14) Pethidine, . 15) Pethidine-Intermediate-A 4-cyano-1-methyl- 4-phenylpiperidine. 16) Pethidine-Intermediate-B. ethyl-4- phei;ylpiperidine-4-carboxylate. 17) Pethidine-Intermediate-C. l-methyl-4- phenylpiperidine-4-carboxyhc acid. 18) Phenazocine. 19) Pirninodine. 20) Racemethorphan. 21) Racemorphan. c) Unless specifically excepted or unless listed in another schedule, any moterial. compound, mixture, or preparation which contains any quantity of the following substances having a potential for abuse associated with a stimulant effect on the central nervous system: l) Amphetamine. its salts, optical ISomers. and salts of its optical isomers; 2) Phenmetrazine and its salts; 3) Any substance which contains any quantity of methamphetamine. indudmg its salts, iso- mers. and salts of isomers; 4) Methylphenidate. d) Unless specifically excepted or unless listed in another schedule, methaqualone or any salts. !So- mers or salts of isomers of methaqualone. Schedule III a) Unless specifically excepted or unless hsted m another schedule, any material. compound. miXture. or preparation which contains any quantity of the following substances having a depressant effect on the central nervous system: 1) Any substance which con tams any quar1tit¥' of a derivative of barbituric acid. or any salt of a derivative .of l:xrrbituric acid. 2) Methyprylon. 3) Glutethimide. 4) Lysergic acid. 5) Lysergic acid amide. 6) Chlorhe:>cadol. 7) Phencyclidine. 8) Sulfondiethylmethane. 9) Sulfonethylmethane. 10) Sulfonmethane. p.rivate~Jrotqrazt1, h. e may. enter any start l!w · ·&ht. a: drug-' 1pendent person· enter State Drug Abuse Control Com- pro~ram? 3) check your medicine .chest regularly (approximately twice a year) and throw away those drugs whose prescriptions may be out-of-date, or which may be no longer needed; 3) 3. 4, 5-trimethoxy amphetamine. b) Nalorphine. for ctvil commitment to the commiss10n is as follows: the written !j3qUest rnade to the for the certification of a drug· person to the State Drug Abuse Comm1ssiMn for treatment andre- ' , ~ nation -'the prdcess resulting in the of opmton by a medical doctor wheth~ the Person is dependent controi!OO. subs~dnce (Schedules I- ,. the court analysis of the re- the m~ical e.:nmination and any available; the court's or jury's deci- or not the person is a drug- dent pe~son. \' determmes that a person is a perSQn, then 11 ceriifies him to of the 1:Sbte [iug Abuse Control for a panod of pot more than three relative, fnend, or the drug- \\:.in make omt the drug-depE:mdent person did not ourt, he is or;dered. to appear in front is gi\en 9. cqpy of the petition, a the certifica:tion process is read to is advised 'of his rights. The court examination- i£ it still believes ~be d~ug-dependent. of the medit;al examination is given re. vie. ij~.·. :he .. court believe.s that pro ,~ 1Xists. it gives a c.opy repod!to · ~:,}<1,lleged drug-depen- and remin'~\ him of his nghts and of ~rtifica\ion. dr\.1@'-d~pe~dent person named does not bdmit his dependence. • 4) keep all medicines out of the reach of chil- dren. When disposing of drugs, do so safely- for example, fiush drugs down the toilet, if possible, to avoid children and pets finding them. If you know anyone who is in danger of be- coming dependent on the drugs indicated in the new law, tell them about the new law and en- courage them to enter a treatment program. A treatment program is ovailable 24 hours a day. All you have to do is call: In New York City- 246-9300. Elsewhere in New York State- 800-522-2193. NEW YORK STATE SCHEDULE OF CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES Schedule I a) Unless specifically excepted or unless listed in another schedule, any of the following opiates, in- cluding their isomers. esters, ethers, salts, and salts of isomers. esters. and ethers. whenever the exis- tence of such isomers, esters, ethers, and salts is possible within the specific chemical designation: l) Acetylmethadol. 2) Allylprodine; 3) Alphacetylmathadol. 4) Alphameprodine. 5) Alphamethadol. 6) Benzethidine. 7) Betacetylmethadol. 8) Betameprodine. 9) Betamethadol. 10) Betaprodine. 11) Clonitazene. 12) Dextromoramide. 13) Dextrorphan. 14) Diampromide. 15) Diethylthiambutene. 16) Dimenoxadol. 4) Bufotenine. 5) Diethyltryptamine. 6) Dimethyltryptamine. 7) 4-methyl-2, 5-dirnethoxy amphetamine. 8) Ibogaine. 9) Lysergic acid diethylamide. !OJ Mescaline. 11) Peyote. 12) N-ethyl-3-piperidyl benzilate. 13) N-methyl-3-piperidyl benzilate. 14) Psilocybin. IS) Psilocyn. 16) Tetrahydrocannabinols, other than Cannabis. d) Cannabis. Schedule II a) Unless specifically excepted or unless listed in another schedule, any of the following substances whether produced directly or indirectly by extrac- tion from substances of vegetable origin. or inde- pendently by means of chemical synthesis. or by a ·combination of extraction and chemical synthesis:. 1) Opium and opiate, and any salt, com- pound. derivative, or preparation of opium or opiate. 2) Any salt. compound, derivative, or prepa- ration thereof which is chemicolly equivalent or 1dentical with any of the substances referred to in clause (1), except that these substances shall not include the isoquinoline alkaloids of opium. 3) Opium poppy and poppy straw. 4) Coca leaves and any salt. compound, de- rivative, or preparation of coca leaves, and any salt, compound. derivative. or preparation thereof which is chemically equivalent or iden- tical with any of these substances, except that the substances shall not include decocainized coca leaves or extraction of coca leaves, which extractwns do not contain cocaine or ecgonine. b) Unless specifically excepted or unless listed in another schedu.le, any of the following opiates, in- c) Unless specifically excepted or unless listed in another schedule. any materiaL compound, mixture, or preparation containing limited quantities of any of the following narcotic drugs, or any salts thereof: l) Not more than 1.8 grams of codeine per 100 milliliters or not more than 90 milligrams per dosage !Jnit. with an equal or greater quantity of an isoqu inoline alkaloid of opium. 2) Not more than 1.8 grams of codeine per 100 milliliters or not more than 90 milligrams per dosage unit. with one or more active, nonnar- cotic ingredients in recognized therapeutic amounts. 3) Not more than 300 milligrams of dihydro- codeinone per 100 milliliters or not more than 15 milligrams per dosage unit, with a fourfold or greater quantity of an isoquinoline alkaloid of opium. 4) Not more than 300 milligrams of dJ.hydro-. codeinone per 100 milliliters or not more than 15 milligrams per dosage unit. with one or more active, nonnarcotic ingrecitents in recognized therapeutic amounts. 5) Not more than 1.8 grams of dihydroco- deine per 100 milliliters or not more than 90milli- grams per dosage unit, with one or more active, nonnarcollc ingredients in recognized thera- peutic amounts. 6) Not more than 300 milligrams of ethyl- morphme per 100 milhliters or not more than 15 milligrams per dosage unit. w1th one or more active, nonna:rtotic ingred1ents in recognized therapeutic amounts. 7) Not more than 500 milligrams of opium per 100 milliliters or per lOO grams, or not more than 25 milligrams per dosage unit. with on,e or more active, nonnarcotic ingredients in recog- nized therapeutic amounts. . 8) Not more than 50 milligrams of morphine per 100 milliliters or per 100 grams with one or more active. nonnarcctic ingredients in recog-' nized therapeutic amounts .

• f ... l.t !Pala,c:ts can apply for civil of New York StQ!e au.'\'\'·\\\ provided the been convicted of found. to be a nar- the Mental Hygiene Law against him 1s a felony and the d1stnct at- or (d) the emeanor. exammation. the to the custody of the and adJourn the cnrru- \\\'\u\J of dismissal of the Ill· cases, convicted nar- ·ft:I!J!Jed as narcollc addicts the court to the com- t for a statu tory year. The court can treatment with super- \'\'\'·n-ro probation for felo- 1'<1'\'\'\''\\' for miSdemeanors 'bfr~t.rr1ant). However, fhe must be reviewed of these .CONCORDIENSIS, Friday, October 26, 1973 law Information he has the right to have the issue determined by either a judge or jury. Dunng ail steps of the certification process the drug-dependent person has the right to coun- sel (court provided, if he cannot find his own) I . . - • 20} Q. What kinds of treatment does the State Drug Abuse Control Commission offer? A. A variety of programs including residentiaL ex-addict direct.:;!d, methadone maintenance~ among others. The first concern of the Commis' sion is to find an in-patient and aftercare program that is suited to the individual needs of the drug- dependent person. Trained personnel evaluate . each case individually and, based on that evalu- c:Hion, determine what immediate and long-term steps should be followed. This program is ad- justed as the individl!al progresses through rehabilitation. 21) Q. Is the me,thadone maintenance program. available to everyone? A. No. In fact, qUite strict requirements must be met for anyone to enter the program to minimize potentially severe consequences. The physical condition, age., length of time dependent on drugs are amc:mg the factors considered to determme if a persun is eligible to enter this program. 17) Dimepheptanol. 18) Dimethylthiambutene. 19) Dioxaphetyl butyrate. 20) Dipipanone. 2!) Ethylmethylthiambutene. 22) Etonitazene. 23) Etoxeridine. 24) Furethidine. 25) Hydtoxypethidine. 26) Ketobemidone. 27) Levomoramide. 28) Lev:ophenacylmorphan. 29) Morpheridine. 30) Noracy:rrtethadol. 31) Norlevorphanol. 32) Normethadone~ 33) Norpipanone. . 34) Phenadoxone. 35) Phenampromide. 36} Phenomorphan. 3.7) Phenoperidine. 38) Piritramide. 39) Proheptazine. 40) Properidine. 41). Racerrioramide .. 42) Trimeperidine. · not cover drug -de pen- :narcotic add1cts. Other ,nust be Civilly com- arrest and c:nminal of charges m a ·The New York State Program and the New Drug Laws b) Unless specifically excepted or unless listed in another schedule, any of the following opium deriv- atives, their salts, isomers, and salts of isomers whenever the existence of such salts, isomers, and salts of isomers is possible withm the specific chemi- cal designation: 'I.~'nrrlm<::tl certification of altered with respect fll-yt,,.,~ under the custody Control Commission. of convicted addicts .,.,,..,,,,.... except for lesser (prior to September be civilly committed .. ina proceed- nghts to due pro- by theConsl!tu lion. to undergo a mech- his dmg depen- 22) Q. How does the State plan to enforce the new drug law? · A. The State has developed a comprehensive plan that does more than enforce the new drug law. The State is spending $66.3 million to pro- vide more facilities ·and personnel not only for law enforcement but also for drug abuse treat- ment. These funds will add up to 100 JUdicial parts (personnel and facilities to conduct trials), ex- pand detention and prison facilities, and increase drug treatment programs for accommodation of 65,000 drug-dependent individuals. As pointed out in the introductory statement, the intent of this program is to deter people from drug abuse and to rehabilitate those persons who are, or may become, depenr:i.8m .::.n those drugs indicated in the new law. 23) Q. What can the individual citizen· do to abide by this law? A. If you use prescnpl!on drugs, be sure that you have these dfl.Jgs pursuant to a lawful prescrip- tion i:;;sued by a practitioner (physician, dentist, l) Acetorphine. 2) Acetyldihydrocodeine. 3) Benzylmorphine. 4) Codeine methylbromide. 5) Codeine-N-Oxide. 6) Cypremorphine. 7) Desomorphine. 8) Dihydromorphine. 9) Etorphine. 10) Heroin. ll) Hydromorphinol. 12) Methyldesorphine. ,...,, 13) Methylhydromorphine. 14) Morphine methylbromide. 15) Morphine methylsulfonate. 16) Morphine-N-Oxide. 17) Myrophine. 18) N1cocodeine. 19) Nicomorphine. 20) Normorphine. 21) Pholeodeine. 22) Thebacon . ere.) m me course ot proress10na1 treatment ror legitimate medical purposes and that you keep the drug in the original container in which it was dispensed . · If you use any medicines, follow these steps: 1) read and follow an label directions carefully; 2) date all medicines; c) Unless specifically excel\>ted or unless listed in another schedule, any materiaL compound, mixture, or preparation, which contains any quantity of the following hallucinogenic substances, or which con- tains any of their salts, isomers, and salts of isomers whenever the existence of such salts, isomers, and salts of isomers is possible within the specific chemi- cal designation: 1) 3, 4-methylenedioxy amphetamine. 2) 5-methoxy-3: 4-methylenedioxy amphetamine. Page9 eluding their isomers. esters, ethers, salts, and salts of rsomers. esters and ethers, whenever the exrs- tence of such Isomers, esters. ethers. and salts rs possible withm the specific chemrcal desrgnatron: .)) Alphaprodme. 2) Amlendme. 3) Bezrtram1de. 4) Dihydrocodeme. 5) Diphenoxyla.te. 6) Fentanyl. 7) Isomethadorte. 8) Levomethorphan. 9) Levorphanol. l 0) Metazocine. 11) Methadone. 12) Methadone-!nterr:rtediate. 4-cyano- 2-dimethylamino-4, 4-chphenyl butane. 13) Moramide-Intermediate, 2-methyl-3- morpholino·l, l-diphenylpropane- carboxylic acid. 14) Pethidine. . 15) Pethidine-Intermediate-A 4-cyano-l-methyl- 4-phenylpiperidine. 16) Pethidine-Intermediate-B. ethyl-4- phel)ylpiperidine-4-carboxylate. 17) Pethidine-Intermediate-C. 1-methyl-4- phenylpipendine-4-carboxyhc acid. 18) Phenazocme. 19) Piminodine. 20) Racemethorphan. 21) Racemorphan. C) Unless specifically excepted or unless listed in another schedule, any material, compound, mixture, or preparation which contains any quantity of the following substances having a potential for abuse associated with a stimulant effect on the central nervous system: !)Amphetamine, its salts, optical isomers, and salts of its optical isomers; 2) Phenmetrazine and its salts; 3) Any substance which con tams any quantity of methamphetamine, includmg 1ts salts. iso- mers. and salts of isomers; 4) Methylphenidate. d) Unless specifically excepted or unless listed m another schedule, methaqualone or any salts. iso- mers or salts of isomers of methaqualone. Schedule III a) Unless specifically excepted or unless listed m another schedule, any materiaL compound, mucture. or preparation which contains any quantity of the following substances having a depressant effect on the central nervous system: 1) Any substance which con tams any quantity of a derivative of barbituric acid, or any salt of a derivative .of barbituric acid. 2) Methyprylon. 3) Glutethimide. 4) Lysergic acid. 5) Lysergic acid amide. 6) Chlorhexadol. .7) Phencyclidine. 8) Sulfondiethylmethane. 9) Sulfonethylmethane. 10) Sulfonmethane. 3) check your medicine chest regularly (approximately twice a year) and throw away those drugs whose prescriptions may be out-of-date, or which may be no longer needed; 4) keep all niedicines out of the reach of chil- dren. When disposing of drugs, do so safely~ for example, flush drugs down the toilet, if possible, to avoid children and pets finding them. 3) 3, 4, 5-trimetho.xy amphetamine. 4) Bufotenine. b) Nalorphine. commitment to the is as follows: ~quest made to the certification of a drug- the State Drug Abuse for treatment andre- c:; \\~~~\'''\' resulting in the by a medical doctor is dependent (Schedules I- that a person is a it certifies him to l:iug Abuse Control pot more than three I . f fnend, or the drug- lf\-un make c:eJt the ,ndent person. did not · ered to appear in front of the petition, a process is read to his rights. The court - if it stili believes dt.ug-dependent. . examination is g.iven court believ·es that it gives a c.opy \'\·'\\\\':u drug-depen- 'li\~J<•~±uu of his rights and :l-'=~t<-< 1 ~::r t person named his dependence, If you know anyone who is in danger of be- coming dependent on the drugs indicated in the new law, tell them about the new law and en- courage them to enter a treatment program. A treatment program is available 24 hours a day. All you have to do is call: In New York City-246-9300. Elsewhere in New YorkState-800-522-2193. NEW YORK STATE SCHEDULE OF CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES Schedule I a) Unless specifically excepted or unless listed in another schedule. any of the following opiates, in- cluding their isomers, esters, ethers. salts, and salts of isomers, esters, and ethers, whenever the exis- tence of such isomers, esters, ethers, and salts is possible within the specific chemical designation: l) Acetylmethadol. 2) Allylprodine. 3) Alphacetylmathadol. 4) Alphameprodine. 5) Alphamethadol. 6) Benzethidine. 7) Betacetylmethadol. BJ Betameprodine. 9) Betamethadol. I 0) Betaptodine. 11) Clonitazene. 12) Dextromoramide. 13) bextrorphan. 14) Diampromide. 15) Diethylthiambu tene. 16) Dimenoxadol. 5) Diethyltryptamine. 6) Dimethyltryptamine. 7) 4,methyl-2, 5-dimethoxy amphetamine. 8) Ibogaine. 9) Lysergic acid diethylamide. 10) Mescaline. 11) Peyote. 12) N-ethyl-3-piperidyl benzilate. 13) N-methyl-3-piperidyl benzilate. 14) Psilocybin. 15) Psilocyn. 16) Tetrahydrocannabinols. other than Cannabis. d) Cannabis. Schedule II a) Unless specifically excepted or unless listed in another schedule, any of the following substances whether produced directly or indirectly by extrac- tion from substancE?s of vegetable origin, or inde- pendently by means of chemical synthesis, or by a combination of extraction and chemical synthesis:. 1) Opium and opiate, and any salt, com- pound, derivative, or preparation of opium or opiate. 2) Any salt, compound, derivative, or prepa- ration thereof which is chemically equivalent or identical with any of the substances referred to in clause ( 1 ), except that these substances shall not include the isoquinoline alkaloids of opium. 3) Opium poppy and poppy straw. 4) Coca leaves and any salt compound, de- rivative, or preparation of coca leaves, and any salt, compound, derivative, or preparation thereof which is chemically equivalent or iden- tical with any of these substances, except that the substances shall not include decocainized coca leaves or extraction of coca leaves, which extractions do not contain cocaine or ecgonine. b) Unless specifically excepted or unless listed in another schedule, any of the following opiates, in- c) Unless specifically excepted or unless listed in another schedule, any material. compound, mixture7 or preparation containing limited quantities of any of the following narcotic drugs, or any salts thereof: l) Not more than 1.8 grams of codeine per 100 milliliters or not more than 90 milligrams per dosage :unit, with an equal or greater quantity of an isoquinoline alkaloid of opium. 2) Not more than 1.8 grams of codeine per 100 milliliters or not more than 90 milligrams per dosage unit, with one or more active, nonnar- cotic ingredients in recognized therapeutic amounts. 3) Not more than 300 milligrams of dihydro- codeinone per 100 milliliters or not more than 15 milligrams per dosage unit, with a fourfold or greater quantity of an isoquinoline alkaloid of opium. 4) Not more than 300 milligrams of d1hydro-. codeinone per 100 milliliters or not more than 15 milligrams per dosage unit, with one or more active, nonnarcotic ingredients in recognized therapeutic amounts. 5) Not more than 1.8 grams of dihydroco- deine per l 00 millilitGrs or not more than 90 milli- grams per dosage unit. with one or more active, nonnarcotic ingredients in recognized thera- peutic amounts. 6) Not more than 300 milligrams of ethyl- morphine per 100 milliliters or not more than 15 milligrams per dosage unit. with one or more. active, nonnarcotic ingredients in recognized therapeutic amounts. 7) Not more than 500 milligrams of opium per 100 milliliters or per 100 grams, or not more than 25 milligrams per dosage unit. with o~e or more active. nonnarcotic ingredients in recog- nized therapeutic amounts. . 8) Not more than 50 milligrams of morphine per 100 milliliters or per 100 grams with one or more active, nonnarcctic ingredients in recog. · nized therapeutic arnounts.

Page 10 CONCORDIENSIS, Friday, October 26, 19'13 Allende Overthrow Analyzed The following is an analysis of the Chilean coup that has been compiled by Liberation News Service· it is based on accounts of the cou'p which they have received from their contact in Chile and. from the Reuters News agency among others. We present it with the full knowledge that few people will be willing to .accept the conclusions reached m the piece, but with the even cle~rer knowledge that the only medmm open to the dissemination of these ideas is the college press. The Coup And The Aftermath Since the popular unity government of Salvad0r Allende was overthmwn by right-wing military forces, Chile has been virtually cut off from the rest of the world. All press communications must pass through what ene correspondent in Chile tenned \the most extreme censorship ever . ., Every report out of Santiago ~h~t ap.pears in the U.S. mass media IS no more than what the four-man junta would like Americans to hear. However news is coming out via other ~hannels, news that is causing many around the world to fear for the lives of thousands of Chileans, as well as the 13;000 foreigners labeled \alien elements., by the junta. Most of these foreigners are political refugees from rightist regimes in Latin America. Many were granted asylum by the Allende government and face torture and certain death if they are forced to return to their countries. From the reports of people who ha,ve managed to flee Chile, from etbbassy personnel still loyal to the ousted government, from sources monitoring Chilean ham radio broadcasts, and from a few people who have .mana¥ed !o contact friends and relatlVes m Chile via restricted telephone communications, the following inf0rmation has been gathered: Nearly 20,000 people have been killed by the junta so far. The junta admits to having caused only I 00 deaths and 4,000 arrests. However one Mexican journalist who made it out of Chile to Mendoza on the Argentine border, reported that he saw. a sports stadium- with a ~apactty of tens of thousands- filled by · arrestees awaiting transport to deserted islands off the coast where, it is reported, camps are being set up to hold them. The junta has announced that the arrested Chileans as well as some foreignen will face mi~itary tribunals. Numerous eyewitness reports of \summary executions•• in the streets of Santiago have been rendered, and people in Santiago have been quoted as saying they had seen dozens of bodies left lying in the streets. Suspected leftists are being tortured according to reports by International News Service. a loyalist Chilean agency which set up operations in Argentina after the coup. These reports were corroborated by Prenas Latina, the Cuban news agency. Also, a Reuters news agency correspondent, Stewart Russell, who was arrested as a suspected sniper in Santiago, reported seeing arrested Chileans taken into the basement of the Tacna barracios where he was held. The officer in charge of Russell threatened to take him down too, noting that he would find it \most interesting.\ During the four hours that Russell was detained he did not see the Chileans come out of the basement. Witnesses report that the Chilean Air Force has bombed workers quarters, and factories that resisted the coup. No estimates of deaths from the bombings have been made, except for the bombing of the Sumar textile factory in Santiago, where at least 500 people were killed. These facts, along with statements by the junta asserting that \no quarter will be given to anyone who shows the slightest resistance,\ have led many people outside of Chile, including the World Council of Churches and Amnesty International, t.o .~e~r that the \Djakarta solutiOn Is being applied to Chile.. , The \Djakarta solution refers to the 1965 massacre of more than 500,000 leftists a~d suspected leftists in lndonesta, after a CIA-sponsored coup overthrew the Sukarno government. In fact, in July and August, the word \Djakarta•• had begun to appear as graffiti on the streets of Santiago; leftist newspapers, including the daily Ultima Hora, report that they ~ecei~ed. small printed cards saymg Djakarta will come\ during the same period. The fate of many persons closely associated wi~h the Allende government IS still unknown, although some disturbing reports have come out: Cuba's Prensa Latina reports that members of the Allende government have ?een dro~ped from helicopters, m executions reminiscent of US military practice in Vietnam. There are reports that Carlos Altamira~o, leader of the Socialist party, died in the bombing of the Sumar textile factory. Contrary to previous reports, General Carlos Prats, Allende's strongest supporter in the m.ilita~y until he was forced to restgn m August, is not leading a march of loyalist soldiers and wo~kers. Prats was captured by the JUnta and forced to go on television to dispel remors of the march. He was then deported to Argentina. The fate of Chile's poet laureate, Pablo Neruda, is uncertain. There have been reports from sources in the junta that he has been hospitalized for cancer. However, Neruda is an internationa.lly-known anti- imperialist and Ch_ilean patriot, and if he should dte now, many would doubt that it was of natural causes. The fate of the foreign exiles also remains unknown. The junta has issued virulent propaganda against all foreigners, ch~rging them with bringing ••ideas ahen to the Chilean nation,\ into Chile. Already, according to International News Service, 300 exiles have been executed and many more airlifted to ~razil and Argentina where certam death awaits them. There are fears that the junta, with the encou~ageme~t of the military regimes m Uruguay. Brazil. Bolivia, and Paraguay, will use the .co~p a~ a means of ensuring the hqmdat10n of · the hard core of Latin America's leftist movement. By successfully wiping out the 13,000 refugees, the anti-fasc~st movements of those countnes and, to lesser degrees, other Latin American nations would be seriously damaged. Finally, in their strenuous effort to \save the fatherland from the yoke of Marxism;• .the junta has sent squads '!~ soldters into libraries, universities, and public schools to search out and burn any \suspect books. CIA Involvement in the Coup The charge of US State Department and . CIA involvement in t'he Chilean coup was given new substance on September 14, when the Nor!h American Congress on Latm America (NACLA), a research group based in New York and Berkeley, presented a list. of members of what they termed a CIA \Coup Team.\ The coup team contained men who had assisted in planning and ca~r;ring out coups in the Dommtcan Republic and Guatemala, as well by AL REISCH as directing a pacification program against lC:ftists in Guatemala at a later ttme. NACLA, which maintains two extensive research libraries and which has published a book on the Allende government, New Chile, charged that a team of eleven men, led by US Ambassador Nathaniel Davis, was present in Santiago at the time of the coup. They had filtered into Chile, using the embassy as a cover. Most of them were listed as \political officers\ in the embassy. NACLNs charges must be seen in the context of all the information which has come to light as a result of the Waterga~e revelations. It has become public knowledge that ITT offered the CIA one million dollars to finance Allende's overthrow (Allend.e's government . had nationalized ITT's Chtlean holdings. as well as those of Anaconda and Kennecott). Also public knowledge is the fact that E. Howard Hunt planted taps on the Chilean embassy in Washington, hoping to find out more about the ITT affair. · Furthermore, US policy toward Chile, outside of the covert activities so far revealed, also helps to complete the .Picture. of US intentions regardmg Chtle. The Nixon administration sought to bring the Popular Unity government to its knee~ by choling it to death economically. In a recent Washington Post article, it was pointed out that the US pressured foreign banks to deny credit to Chile. Jn !9.72, Chile received only 35 mllhon dollars in credit, compared to 220 million dollars in previous years. At the same time, the US approved loans and credits. to the military regimes of Brazil an~ Bolivia, even though thetr economies were at least as shaky as Chiles. The effect of this credit cut-off was evident in the two truck-owners• strikes which contributed heavily to Allende's difficulties. The truck-owners complained that they were unable to get parts for their foreign-made trucks. Without credit, though, Chile could not buy parts. Nor could the government buy the consumer goods which the Chilean upper and middle classes had to do without. The US was directly responsible for these shortages. Besides this evidence of US interference, more has been revealed since the time of the coup to support the charg~ of CIA involvement. The Chilean ambassador to Mexico, who resigned on September 17, was quoted on CBS national news !laying that he had seen documents which proved the existence of a plan known as Operation Centaur. According to the ambassador, Allende saw the documents, but then it was too late to stop the coup. In the light of this, the char/?e that a \Coup Team'• existed m Santiago cannot easily be written off. An examination of t~e purported members ~~d th~1r areas of previous activity gtve added credibility to the charges: I. Ambassador Nathaniel Da-vis: Davis went to Brown University, along with E. Howard Hunt and Charles Colson. Hunt was charged with bugging the Chilean embassy in 1972. He was also sent to silence Dita Beard, who leaked the ITT memos. Davis was Ambassador to Chile at the time of the ITT affair. Davis served as U.S. Ambassador to Guatamala during J968-71. In this period Guatamala underwent a \pacification program\ in which it is acknowledged that 20,000 suspected le.ftists ~ere assassinated. Davts was appomted Ambassador to Chile in October 1971. On September 8, a few days before the coup, Davis flew to Washington to meet ~ith ~enry Kissenger. Kissenger IS chairman of a \Committee of 40\ which has authority over aU covert activities in foreign countries. It opera~es under the National Secunty Council. On September lO, Davis returned to Chile. The coup began on Septem her II. 2. Dean Roes.ch Hinton: Hinton left the State Department to join the CIA in 1955. He directed the U.S. Agency for International Development (AID) mission in Guatamala from 1967 to 1969, serving there wi~h Davis. Hinton then went to Chile, when Allende was elected, t0 direct the AID .program there. 3. Daniel N. Arzac: He has worked for the CIA since 1953. He served in Cambodia from '54\ '55, following the French defeat. there. He served in Uruguay from '57-'58, while E. Howard Hunt was CIA station chief there. He joined the U.S. embass;v in Chile as a \political officer\ m 1971. 4. James E. Anderson: He was in Air Force hnelligence from '5J- '57. He served as a Foreign Service officer in Santiago ~e .los Caballeros in the Dommtcan Republic one month before the coup against Juan B<:>sch. and. the subsequent U.S. Manne mvaswn, in 1965. He served in Mexico City from '66-'70. In 1968, the infamous massacre of 500 CIA agent, served in Panama. He arrived at the Santi~go embassy, as a ·~political officer\ in May, 1969. 12. Harr:y W. Shlau~e~an: Shlaudeman, not p.ositively identified as a CIA agent, is well known for the role he played in the Dominican Republic in the mid..,60~s. He served as chief political officer in s.a:nto Domingo from 1962 until he joined the Santiago embassy as beputy Chief of Mission (s~co~d in command, under Davis) m 1'969 and has been there ever since. J.n 1he Dominican Republic, he play-ed a prominent role during the coup against Bosch and the Marine invasion. * * * * Of the I 1 team members, two served in Guatamala at the time of the 1954 coup against Arbenz, two served in the Dominican Republ:ic at the ti~e o~ the 1965 overthrow and mvasmn, o~e served with E. Howard Hunt m Uruguay and one .is a ~ontact with the fascist Patna y Lrbertad group in Chile. All ~~cept Shlaudeman have been positively identified by NACLA as CIA agents. .a.evrs. Da\e~s Men$ Shop 453 State St. (downtown Schenectady) Mexican students protesting the c- 1 ------------ .... -'\\\l Olympics in Mexico City occured. Listed as a CIA agent, Anderson arrived in Chile under the cover of \consular officer\ two months after Allende's inauguration. 5. John B. Tipton: He join~d the State Department and CIA m 1958. Trained in labor relations, he served as a labor officer in Guatamala from '6F68. He arrived in Chile as a \political officer•• in January of 1972. 6. Raymond Alfred Warren: Warren joined the State Department and CIA in 1954 .. He served in Guatamala at the time u Unusual Solid Copper Gifts ... For Every Occasion\ COPPER GIFT SHOP 133 Jay St. -=----...------ 10% Discount -------------- WITH THIS AD of the acknowledg!!d CIA- t sponsored coup against the Arbenz government in 1954. He arrived in Santiago in October, 1970 when Allende was confirmed by the Chilean parliament. ~ __ GOOD UNTILIO/ 19 ~ .,...._ COFFEEHOUSE SCHEDULE FOR FALL TERM 7. Arilold M. lssaes: He served in Argentina from '66 until he arrived in Santiago in February, 1970. He is well known ~y t~e North American commumty m Santiago for his attempts to penetrate it. 8. Frederick W. Latrash: Latrash served in the Office of Naval . Intelligence from '48-'49 and from '51-'54. In 1954 he participated in the CIA co~p against the Arbenz government ~n Guatamala. He also served Ill Ghana during the period when Kwame Nkrumah was overthrown. He joined the Santiago embassy in May, 1971, two months before U.S. owned copper mines were nationalized. 9. Joseph F. McManus: He arrived in Chile in September, 1972 and is a known CIA agent. 10. Keith W. Wheelock: Wheelock worked in the .State Department and CIA from October '60 to March '62. He arrived in Chile in 1966. In 1969, as Allende was coming into political prominence: .h~ shifted his cover to a ctv1han one. Communiques from . No.rth Americans in Chile, ~ecetved JUSt before the coup, linked him with · the far-right paramilitary Patria y Libertad (Fatherland and Liberty), which has taken credit for several assassinations and terrorist acts against the Allende .government. In the week just prior to the coup, Ro~erto Thieme, leader of Pa.trta y Lilfertad, announced Ill an interview that his group was preparing for a coup. . 11. Donald Winters: Wmters, a Oct. 26 - Kirk Edwards (country-blues) and Gary Myszkowski Nov. 2 - Tom Damphier (country-folk) Nov. 9 - Ellen Warshaw (back again!) · No:v. lti -· John Roberts and Tony Barrand (bawdy English drinking and music hall songs) Nov. 30 FINALS FREEBIE! (anyone interested in performing - contact Barb Carabell in Smith House or leave a note in the coffeehous~ mailbox in Student Activities). * * * * There will be an important Yearbool< meeting on Monday, October 29 at 7:30 a.m. in room 304 Carnegie. The publisher will he the guest, so please come. * * * * The Student Life Committee would like to announce open grievance meetings, starting Tuesday night, Oct. 30 at 7:00 at West College Library. Each week, we will meet at a different dorm or fraternity. We exped also to have t?e newly revised Student Ltfe Handbook out shortly. If there are any questions, feel free to contact any of us: Jerry Comatos. 108 Webster, 370-6427; Lauren Gordon. 302 Richmond, 370-6452; Lynn Sutton, 212 Fox, 346-9227; Mitch Weisburgh. Sigma Chi, 346-9582; Stew Abramson, 351 Fox. 370- 6520. :r ' l f ,,. \ ~ l:> . ; ., ) ., ( r ( r ( I I (' 1:

,.. .. ' l [ ) ') ·~ ) I ,. ll ... CONCORDIENSIS, Friday, October 26, 1973 Page 11 Profs' Reactions Candidates' Statements Continued from p~g~ ~ questions posed 24, October, 1973 concerning ~he present crisis in government: Q: :Does the partial. disclosure of som~ of the tapes by President Nixon take some of \the steam\ out of the impeac::hment movem~nt? A: Yes, the .major stimulus for clear..cut legal action is removed. He feels, · however, that the President has violated his oath of office to \preserve ;protect, and defend the constitution of the United States.\ He sees this as !:-tomething which in his · mind .!.hould be grounds for removal of office. He citeS> ·the . secret bOmbirig in lndo.;China as an example of this violation of the oath.. He also thinks the \lieing\ (as he calls the refusal of the President and his aides to admit to bombing) is grounds for removal of President. Eventually however, he feels the scandal ovet the dairy i'ndlistry payments and .the !.Ubsequent alleged manipulation of pu:blic affairs will weigh most heavily against President. _ .. Q: How do you explain reversal of public opinion after the vast . . , landshde for Nixon? Notice Elections for two positions on· the Stef!ring Committee for the Class of 1977 will be held . · on: Wednesday, October 31, · 1973. in the Str~Uss Lounge of · the College Center, 9 a~m.- 10 · p.m. If ne~ary, a runoff election will be held on Thursday, November l, 1973, same time and place. All Members of the Class of 1977 are eligible to vote. PETER PAUSE RESTAURANT ,HStudent Discoun( Mon.-Sat. 5:30-7:30 535 NOTT ST. ~..--~-~~~ ~ .. STAR LIQUOR ~ ~ . AND WINE A: The '72 election results were anti-McGovern, not primarily pro-Nixon. The AmeFican public has never had a great love affair with Nixon. In contrast the scandal$ in the Eisenhower and Johnson adrninist~atiom; were not taken too seriously. The Watergate scandel has been particularly harmful because the facts have trickled out, arousing public ·indignation anew every week. If the President had released aU the evidence at once the explosion . would have been tremendous. but it would have died after a few weeks. the people feelthat the President does not know how to handle the government and that the fault rests with h-im. Q: What part did the press play in the mounting anti-Nixon movement? Was press Wrong in their actions toward Nixon and Agnew? A: Press was '\dogged'ly · determined to pursue the case (Watet:gate and Agnew trial).\ Sees the \right to know\ as very importent function performed by press. He admits that some hypocrisy was shown by the press as they condemned news leaks on the editorial page and printed them on the front page. He Was beginning to-:believe Agnew until the resignation took place. Q: Is the· Republican party hurt by the Agnew resignation and the entire Watergate mess? A: Thinks the national party in presidential and senatorial elections may be hurt. Does not think that the individual problems of Nixon and Agnew necessarily reflect on the G.O.P. In conclusion, he feels impe~c?ment (not necessarily conviction) was a \50-50\ chance on Monday. Now the chances are considerably less. He feels Nixon !>hOuld be removed, but does not hase this on strictly constitutional grounds. It should be noted that Professor Hartwig is a liberal Democrat and his answers should naturall~ be j_udged in that light. STEADY INCOME AVAILABLE For a few honest married couples. Call 399-4264 for an appointment. HARRIET KAPLAN would like to announce ny candidacy for the offi~e of Freshman Representative to the Steering Committee. I have been active in Student Government throughout high school. Frern ~peaking to members of the Committee and by attending the meeting held on Tuesday evening, I. am familiar with what tny responsibilities to the office would he. A student committee such as this can and should be a :,ignificant part of college life, a11d I would very much like .the opportunity to represent the Fre11hman Class in this respect. * * * * HOWIE LAX If. I were to give you wise words, would they be sufficient? If the masses were to revolt a11d all the other candidates were obliterated, would you have a choice? If the cows are hungry a11d want to graze in the grass, wily must the albatross hassle them? If mountains climbed above tile ~ky and rivers melted into tile night, would . the sun still set in the east? . If the world was to lie on ,its ~ide and the moon was to sta11d on its head, would reality just sit on its ass? If sanity prevailed, would I exist? The name is Howie Lax. The room is 418. lhe dorm is West. Trudge on up and check it in. Vote for me; I'm the only candidate that makes any sense. * * * * BLAIR REISCHER I seek one of the·two Freshman ~eats on the Steering Committee because I am interested, willing to work, and I want to help. I favor· a student referendum ()0 the dog policy, and I will work vigorously for the implementatit>n of its results. I will work for a change in requirements to allow Freshmen the option of not taking a meal plan during the winter and spring terms. I favor the proposed split three calendar change - Starting earlier in September, finishing the fall term before Thanksgiving, coming back right after Thanksgiving for three weeks before Christmas, a ~hort Christmas break, seven weeks after Christmas to finish r _____ .,.. ____ ...:,_ the winter term, and then finish SNAPPY I the year normally in May. As I 1 1 / I ~ee it, the advantages to this an that we get out earlier in the I · I ~pring so we can get better job~ I MEN'S SHOP I ~ooner, and it will match our I calendar with the other schools in DISCOUNT I I' the Consortium so we can take I TO UNION MEN: I courses at the other schools in the \ I I ~pring. The obvious disadvantage 't. I 5 %. 1 of this proposal is the split.term.. ' l CENTER \Lowest Legal Prices\ \Free Delivery\ \ ~~ Tel. 374-9285 ~ 1142 STATE ST. ll~.~ ....... ~~# .. I 1 If this takes effect, it would have I 1 to be agreed that there will be no I 1 papers assigned bl'!fore the 1 Discount With This Ad 1 Christmas break which are not 1 1 due before the break, and that 1 \Schenectady's I reading required not be more 1 Largest Men's Store\ I than that for a normal weekend. I H · There will be a referendum on ~. I ~h~~~:;i~OO II t~is proposal s~on, and I ~ould !Ike to take th1s opportumty to . 1--~!f! ATE ST. I urge you to vote for it. · -------J In sum, I would like to stress ilTilE3lrTTE3ITrErrrrE3TITE:mTIBTTTE3TTn::::::rn'l1=:::::rrm==::mr~==rrm::::m=rrm=-rn=::rrrr= the three issues I have just YOUR UNION I.D. CARD IS WORTH 10% MORE AT mentioned above, and that all I have to offer is myself. If elected, I will try to justify your action in electing rne. lam available to talk to anybody about anything at anvtime. I live in 329 West, TeL J46-921 I. * * * * RARRY GREENE I. Barry T. Greene, am running for the Steering Committee as representative of the Class of 1971. The Steering Committee is the representative organization of the ~tudents and FOR the students. In order for it to be effective, the ~tudents must elect those of their peers who are most capable and will give them the utmost in representation. I believe that I can fill this positiOn. This is bec:ause ,there is a tendency to think of a had representative as one who keeps his door shut and does not welcome ideas, · and a good representative as one whose door is open and welcomes ideas and ~uggestions. This is not completely true because what is 'thought to make a good representative as just mentioned, ,j!» in actuality only a description tlf an average representative. A good representative does not sit hack and wait for people to come to him, as he only associates with ihis limited clique of friends. He goes to the students to get their views, their ideas. their feelings. He speaks to everyone, as everyone is important to a good representative. I am this type of 'f'erson. If I am elected as your representative, I will be in communication with ALL freshmen throughout the year. I will be passing out sheets to ALL freshmen which I will make up whenever the Steering Committee meets in order to inform ALL freshmen about THEIR government. I also oeJieve that being a good representative entails other qualities, one of which is drive. In order to transform ideas into reality, the good representative must be able to work hard to get these ideas accepted by the Senate, the voting body of our ~chool. He must have the extra competitive edge, that extra drive to support the freshmen he represents. I am that type of person. I will push for what freshmen want and see that our dass remains a happy one. The good representative must he able to understand the issues well, to debate well, and to seek Facts. l have found that because -of my interest in seeking primary ~ources for facts, I am a forceful debater. This is necessary for a good representative who might have to convince the Senate to accept various ideas by the :.tudents. I know I can accomplish this. The good representative must also have one other extremely important quality. To him, every ~ingle student is important. When ~omeone he represents tells him of a problem or a suggestion, he must do his utmost to rectify the problem or fulfill the suggestion. This means that the representative WILL accomplish these goals. I never give up and say \die\ when I must help someone or when I 'Will represent the class. I have attended every Steering Committee meeting held this year and am thoroughly familiar with its mores. I know that if 1 am elected as YOUR representative, I will work hard and I guarantee you, my friends, the Class of 1977, that I will do the best job of any other person running for representative of our class. This is hecause I ·would fulfill TH.E COMPLETE RECORD'& TAPE' STORE Freshman Class of 1977 Kindly Stop In At * * * * * APEX MUSIC KORNER * * * * * Ma·urice B. _Craubart & Son:~ .. JEWELERS 166 JAY St. . . . CORNER OF STATE & BROADWAY position as representative by representing EVERY freshman. I will also enjoy working and contributing and trying to do my :.f\lall part in making our first year at Union College a most enjoyable and interesting one. I mean this from my heart · and once I am elected, you will see that this is true. Thank you. * * * * JAY KASNER My name is Jay Kasner and I am running for representative of the Class of '77 on the Steering Committe~. The Steering Committee is referred to as the major organ of student opinion on the Union Campus but for many freshmen, th~ir opinions don't get heard, much less acted upon. Consequently, I feel the most importailt aspect of representing the Class of '77 is to lay the foundation for increased communication between student faculty and administration. T~ this end, I will try, through the Steering Committee, to gain an ·audience for any freshmen complaints ·or criticisms concerning life at Union be it academic or social; concerning housing or the number of bees in the. classroom. Seriously, though, actions speak louder than words and only if elected will what you read here be translated into meaningful changes. I would greatly appreciate your vote. * * * * KEN SIMON My name is Ken Simon and am running for freshman representative to the Steering Committee. The Steering Committee is where student opinion is most effective on campus. I am making no pwmises or pledges since recent political developments in the national government have tended to cause people to be cynical of · all government. This cynicism is terribly wrong today when people !:-thould be striving for effective changes in the political system. This same cynicism has to be avoided here at Union College. It is disappointing that only about ten people had the interest or inclination to try to obtain the I 05 signatur~s necessary to be placed on the ballot. The effectiveness of participatory democra~;y here at Union will be evidenced by the number of freshmen voting in the election. This election will take place on Wednesday, October 31 at the Strauss Lounge in the student center. Voting will take place from 9 a.m.-10 p.m. so there is no excuse for anyone not to vote. I can only say, I will try my best if elected. After only six weeks of ~chool. no candidate can have a platform. The only position one can take is to make even better a college which has• pleased me so much. Above all. take part in an election which affects our school. * * * * TODD HARDING All of us are relatively new to this campus, and we're still acclimating ourselves to it. To try and build a platform around what few issues there are this early in the year would be at best a contrived and trivial effort. Rather, I'm basing my candidacy on the contention that I can do the best job when issues and wants do arise. I don't claim to be the panacea of Union College but I will do what I can to improve it and keep the people jolly. · * * * * . ama., ~. Btanchl s \~ u Banquet Facilities~ A-vailable Free to § ~ ~ College Groups\ ~ ~ 1135 Barrett ~

Page 12 CONCORDIENSIS, Friday, October 26, 1973 Union rallies over RPI 18 14 by BART MERCER llnion's football team scored its 14-9. first points and gained its first The defense held and picked up vidory of the season Saturday a few funbles and interceptions when Joe Urschel and Lou Miller that gave the offense some more got together and had their shots at scoring. Thanksgiving Day celebration a The big play was a 54 yard pass little early at the expense of from Urschel to Miller that ended R.P.I.'s Turkeys. up. on tbe nine yard line. A few In a classic battle between the plays later, Urschel rolled to his anCient rivals, the Dutchmen left and ag;tin found Miller open rallied for two toudtdowns and a in the end lOne and Union took field goal in the last quarter to the lead. The conversion failed overcome RPl. ·· and the Garnet clung to a 15-14 Lou Miller, who accounted for edge for over 10 minutes. every point on the scoreboard, The defense was ag;tin an l'lnt Downs Rustling. 'Y ardQglt Passln~J ¥ ardage Passes · I. R eturrt Yar .. d Ogt! PuMs FumbiGS Lost Vard5 Penalized Uni'oli l1 101 18~ 12-27·3 6'1 a-:u ·l 51i. . RPI 6 :'l5 ,~ $.22·:1 104 22-31) 2 62 Head Soccer Coach Magee has causefor conaern. opened the game's and Union's important factor as they forced seasonal scoring with a 32 yard numerous turnovers and kept the · field .goal that drew a standing ball in RPI tenitory for most of ovation from the several hundred the 4th quarter. Garnet fans that were at the • .Finally, Union .got close A Well .Piayec/ Soccer Game game. enough for a field goal try that A few plays later through, RPI would. just about wrap up the struck back with a 74 yard bomb game. With 90 seconds left, Lou that dampened the hope for a did it again chipping a 25 yarder victory that just .a minute before to add to his persona) collection seemed so possible. of points making .a total of 18. The half was played out and The game was then over and the score stood: RPI 7 - Union llnion kept the \Dutchman's 3. Shoes\ for another year. H()pes for a second half rally Everyone had played well and were nearly crushed half way was relieved that the vidory through the third quarter when aJ.I. didn't get away in the last few errant Urschel pass was pic;ked off seconds. at the 25 and run in for the score. The game was an exciting one After an exchange of punts to watch for players and Union though, Union finally got going fans alike and .it was an especially when Ron Westbrook left the enjoyable v.i.ctory being the first of backfield and inst.ead was the the season and being over the .. target for Urschel bullets. It took Turks of RPI who now \lie\ at 0- but three of these completions to 6. bring Union from its own 17 to Next game: Hobart at home the RPI 29. Jim Collin made one 1 :30 PM Saturday .oat Alexander of the largest ground gains of the Field. P.S. Hobart is day for 8 yards and then Urschel t:ndefeated and just beat Alfred hit Lou Miller with a 21 yard 30-28. strike that brought the score to by .LEE RJMSKY I just came from a well played ~occer game. The team in white won. They won because they played better and because they were smarter. Their strategy was to play defensively and wait for the other team to make the mistakes. It worked. The othet team, wearing garnet and white, made some careless errors and the white team capitalized on them, ~coring twice. But this was not enough. They employed another ~trategy. Knowing that the key to their opponent's offense was high ~<coring forward CFaig Jeffries, they marked him all over the field. Rarely did he touch the ball without at least one white shirted player on his back. That worked too. White did. not let up a goal and so proved themselves to be an excellent soccer team. The school they represent, Colgate, should be very proud of them. Mark Brickley had the assists. Hut the secend half was a totally different stmy. Union got so ~loppy that R P·l almost looked good in comparison. The most they could muster was one. goa;l, ·however, and Union upped. its record to 5-Q- I . Then Colgate came along to mar that perfect ~:ecord, But all is not lost. A one loss season is anly one game wor,se than than going Hndefeated. (I think it was Confucius th-at said. that}. i\nyvmy, Uni·on takes on Middlebury Saturday and theri returJJs home to play Albany State Wednesday at 2:30. · · Rugby Club The other team, in garnet and white, played well also. But they were just not experienced or ~killed enough to break through Colgate's cluttered defense. Except for a penalty shot that they missed, they never really tested the goalie. They played. well in the middle of the field and their defense was sufficient. Dave Van Arnum, Bob Grossman, and Doug Moran were outstanding, hut Colgate's dual strategies pa-ralyzed their offense. It was a frustrating loss, and a sorrowful end to their hopes for an undefeated season. Final score: photo credit Saturday's passing star Joe Urschel. Notches First by RICHARD B. THAU The Union Rugby Club notched · its first victory of the still-young season in a hard- fought and bruising encounter with St. Michael's. After losses in the opening two games to Albany Law and the Albany Knickerbockers, the Garnet came alive to soundly defeat their opponents fifteen to six. Union took the lead in a tightly called first half when Jeff Hurst ran for a four-point try and Mike Goldsmith kicked the .point after. · St. Michael's came back with a penalty kick but still trailed at the half, six to three. Outstanding defensive play by team captain Bruce Eggleston and Mitch Luba1t sparked the team throughout the half. Lubart himself was credited with nine tackles. The Garnet broke, the game open in the second half as the ~turdy right leg of Goldsmith accounted for the remaining nine points on three penalty kicks. Great defense by Union limited St. Michael's to but three more points in the second half as freshmen Greg \the Hooker\ . Cohen, Chris Taylor, Dave ''the · Red Moose'' Kirk, and seniors Johnno Walker and Bob Halsey all had standout performances. Andy Walsh, Ted Blandy, and Jeff Brooms were also instrumental in the Dutchmen's fifteen to six triumph. The entire game was marked by ~trong tackling and fierce runs which prompted one participant to call the game \an experience in asthetic annihilation\ and \artistic mayhem.•• In the \B\ game which followed, Union was set back by a ~trong University of Vermont ~quad by the score of twelve to 7ero. Inexperience and the forced use of tiFed personnel marked the Garnet's downfall in this contj::st, as Eggleston. Lubart. Goldsmith, Ted Blandy, and Pete Perrone had to play a second time despite near-physical exhaustion. The Rugby Club continues its ~eason in a home game Tuesday against a Schenectady area team rated as one of the top squads in the east. The game will be played at seven o'clock under the lights on the soccer field. All those with ~adistic tendencies are urged to attend, though all Union students will be welcome. Moffett's Liquor Store 1505 Van Vranken Ave. Sclienectady, New Yor.k 12308 -ADD TO YOUR EDUCATION- - ,LEARN MORE ABOUT WINES- Join Our WINE TASTING CLUB No Admissions Charge- No Requirements Each month we select a.differcnt wine to be tested There is a card describing the wine in great detail so you can learn a6out it. On -this catd there is a picture of the label so you can remember the wine in the future to impress your date · when yoq,d!ne out or simply want agood bottle of wine. Colgate 2 - Union 0. Earlier in the week, Union had ripped RPI for only the fourth time in the twenty-five year history of the series between the two schools, 3-1. Union played great soccer for the first half, especially Olaf Neilson, Bob tirossman, and Sandy Wilder, and jumped to a 3-0 lead. John Denio (2) and Craig Jeffries tallied the goals and Doug Moran, John Serbetzian, and Frosh by JON SARGENT The Freshman football team won its first game of the season Friday, defeating Williams 14-7. l Inion opened the scoring with a , touchdown pass· from Mark Broomfield to Rick Nalle, but failed to add the extra point. In the second half. Williams responded with a touchdown pa~s of its own. They added the conversion and Williams led 7-6 . . (] nion with another TO pass from Broomfield, this time to Barty Pannell, ended scoring for the -afternoon. By adding the conversion via a Broomfield run, the Dutchmen led, 14-7. The strong Union Defense, led hy middle linebacker Barry Rothman, maintained the lead and lfeld off any chance of a Williams comeback. Cross Country by ALISON SLOAT ... and the Engineers cheered as the announcer sa-id, \In cross country - Union 24, RPI 31,\ only to hear him add, \By the way, the low score wins!\ Thus the Union harriers contributed to a Dutchman sweep versus Rensselaer last Saturday. Bill Galarneau broke the tape to finish the 5.0 mile Troy course with a winning 27.08 time. Close behind was fellow Dutchman Steve Jones. Recavering from an injury sustained in the Hamilton meet, Jonesey fought to finish hard in 27:17 for second. Finishing 6th and adding to team points was Stan Wiskowski. \Wisconsin a promising freshman, did the course in 27:50. Wrapping up the scoring for Union were tearn captain, Crawford Cutts and senior Mark Mindel. The two crossed the line t.ogether in 28:18. This togetherness was seen again on 1 Wednesday, versus Oneonta, when Mindel and Cutts finished the Union 525 mile course in 29:3 J minutes, a personal best for both. When asked, Capt. Cutts explained it as the best way for each to keep the needed strong pace for the last I Y2 miles. Steve Jones was awarded first place versus Oneonta and was clocked in 17:43.2, just :01.6 !'.econds off the course record estabtished by Delaney of Hamilton. · .I ohn Kearney, who ·entered Union as a. freshman two years ago only to transfer to Oneonta in mid-year; was first across the line for the State team in 28:16. Kearney and Jones ran even until the end of the third mile. By the fourth. mile all point scoring places had been established. Jones moved up and Kearney never made UJ> the difference. Veteran runner Bill Galarneau was strong and steady as always and turned in his best time to date, 28:23, and grabbed third place. Close behind Cutts and Mindel came Stan Wiskoski in 29:35 for ~eventll. The Dutchmen tallied 22 point,., frolli their 1, 3, 5, 6th, and 7th places. This Saturday nine qualifiers from the UCol team travel to Albany for the SUNY A Invitational. Making the trip will he Cra~ford Cutts, John Dolan, Steve Jones, BiU Galarneau, Stan Wiskoski, Mark Mindel, John Hallenbeck, Paul Spence, and Scott Kalina. ~-~-------------~--------,. I . I J T)l_e _!J_~~_te~y J I I 1 I 1 1 CONVERSE 1 I I I L_MOCCXSINS ___ J I I . Lined & Waterproof Winter & Hiking Boots 1 I -. Complete Line of Dance Ace. - I . . 147 JAY ST. . . I L Tel. 374-7.777 . Hr. 9-5:30, 1'11. 9·9. . 1 · ~~~-~--~~----~~----------

