t all is only gomg was that). on theri y was of ered in line 16. ring to for 22 Iers to tan ' I I I I I I I I I I Tina Turner as she turns on audience. r~----~ I Jourrd<d 111 Union~ ;n./877 ~Please Recyc!O 1\~ I Vol. 103, No.6 Friday, NoveJilber 2, U73 ZflceJIIs I Grading System Enacted by PAUL CORWIN Another issue discussed at the The AH-C01lege Senate passed meeting was a motion offered by a prop0sal to institute a new Division I, instructing the marking .system, with twelve R~gistrar not to release the grade gradations. The new system will distribution of individual courses utilize pluses and minuses with fer publication. It was mainly the lett~r grades; it will go into aimed at stopping the practice of effect starting in fall, 1974. printing .grades in Linebacker. After lengthy discussion, the The major argument for the Senate decided that the present proposal was that publication of :;ystem of five gradations was grade distribution serves no valid outdated. and inadequate. It was educational purpose, and that it pointed out that unless a change encourages students to choose ~as forthcoming, Union students courses on bases other than would not rema·in in a quality and content. By a close competitive. position in relation to vote, the proposal was defeated, students from other and the pUblication of grade 11ndergraduate colleges when distributions will continue. applying ta graduate OT A third proposalto requi~e that pr-ofessional schools. .Professors students · who receive an also indicated that a twelve-point ''incomplete\ for a course system would enable them to be complete all course work no later more precise in their evaluation of than two weeks after the last day students. of that term's final exams was For the purpose of index discussed. Numerous alternative calculation, the Senate decided to plans were put forth to change the value A at 4.0, A- at 3.7, B+ at present rule on the completion of 3.3, B at 3.0, B- at 2. 7, etc. There '\incompletes but the original will be no changes made on proposal was eventually passed. grades awarded before the plan Extension of the deadline can still gees into effect. be made under exceptional because of the guarantee of law ~chool admission. It was pointed out that the program will begin next year, and that students presently enrolled cannot be considered. The Coikge Senate, as stated in its By-Laws, is the \superior legislative body of Union College and ... will deal with academic and non-academic matters.\ As such, it deals with most of the .problems facing the College, from approving new courses to regulating pets and from reviewing the actions of al~i committees to regulating traffic on campus. The Senate was the body which considered such volatile issues as}he Hebrew issue and whether to allow dogs on campus last year, and those issues outlined above this year. d . R d u· . . , circumstances by an academic R . e I . e . · • · . · · dean. The Senate felt that two · · evtew: D · 1ans · · RI .. · DIOll ·weekswasanequitableamountor , · time to allow students to Student opinion on the Senate is voiced by the four Divisional Representatives,. one representative elected at-large, and the President of the Student Body. They share the decision- making tesponsibility with members of the faculty from each division, and with the deans (and Provost) of the College. If any student would like to find out more about the Senate, and its meetings, contact: by R. B. THAU handling of the character Buffalo Arthur Kopit's Indians opened Bill makes the play a success. at Union's Nott Memorial Silberstein rises to the occasion Theater on Tuesday, initiating time after time in the production's another exciting Mountebanks most difficult role. His dealings ~eason. with Sitting Bull, convincingly The play is set in the last three portrayed by Alan Hu-mbert. are decades of the nineteenth century. very potent in manifesting Kopit's Settings and scenery are utilized th.eme of dehumanization. as a means of conveying the Each facet of the productiolt' is author•s themes of capablymanaged,butwithoutthe dehumanization, character genius of Director Barry Smith manipulation, and the violent the play would fail badly. Smith degradation of American society~ coordinates every factor involved The production is an extension of in the performance with precision; the Freshman Orientation the final preduct ~swell above the program; it includes a small ~urn of the parts. Smith brings the minority . of upperclassmen, yet most out of each performer and !.Uffers not at all by the lack of each technician in order to make experience. In . fact, the Indians as effective as It is and to Wednesday night performance insure the clarity of eacti of went without a hitch, with no Kopit's points. bungled lines or missed cues. In Buffalo Bill, depicted in our any play this should be taken for history books as the ultimate granted, but the framework of western hero, is portrayed in this Indians separates it from just production as. a pathetically weak \any play.\ Sudden changes in individual whose very being is ~etting - the scenes shift thirteen controlled by his manager, Ned times durit1g the performance - Buntline. But this matter are mandatory. The stage crew transcends its application to Cody handles this task·so professionally and speaks of our own culture. It that the effect desired by Kopit is is the tale of a society that uses its quickly felt by the audience and heroes to further its desires; the they grasp a better undetsatnding tale of a people who create heroes of each particular situation. of innocent individuals and then Although upperclassmen Gerry control and manipulate them in· Silberstein and Bob Todaro are an attempt to cleanse their own brilliant as Buffalo Bill and Ned 1 ~ouls of guilt. Buntline, it is freshman Alden But Kopit's play does not stop Sherman whe is the most at this point in detailing what has convincing, in his role of Wild go·ne wrong with America. He Bill Hickok. Though not a major uses Sitting Bull as a symbol of charlicter in the performance, what happens to a man who is Sherman plays Hickok with such unwilling to compromise his zeal and enthusiasm that he - beliefs, no matter how justified or dominates those scenes in which how right he may be. The death he is involved. His exchange with of this Indian c·hief represents the Buffalo Bill at the White House is demise of faith and of optimism one of the strongest points in the in our society. It is society which production, and his biting rises against the man in comment to Cody about the irrepressible pursuit of good to latter's self-respect evokes an make th.e attempts futile. immediate feeling .of pity for the P~si.tllism is further manifested in protagonist. th.e actions of the Russian duke, Bob Todaro, handling the _ who. .not to be outdone by demanding chores of stage Buffalo Bill, searches out and kills manager as well as playing Ned an innocent Sioux, then leaves the Buntline, is hilarious as Cody's ~cene shouting \l atn Buffalo ~hady manager. The very capable Bill.\ This attempt by Kopit to Todaro, a veteran Mountebanks portray our greatest western hero, perfortner, is in total command of the man who millions of children any situation he might encounter. were taught to model themselves His manipulation of Cody is as afte.r, as a violent, unmerciful pathetic as it is humorous, and being who used fotce if necessary Todaro's craftmanship in this role to immortalize h•imself, is only heightens the desired effect. especially effective in arousing the Gerry Silberstein is wonderful audience. Kopit continues along as the protagonist; his inteJiigent this path When he uses Cody in the final scene as a symbol of complete course work that others American justification of our completed in the ten weeks of the heinous Indian policies. When tetm. Buffalo Bill states that .. the white Finally, a program was passed man has a moral obligation to at the meeting for a new \Law vanquish the Indians,\ and that, and Public Policy., major. \\any man who thinks we did Students could apply for this anything .wrong is himself program during their senior year wrong.\ he speaks not only for in high school, and if accepted by himself hut for all of us. both Union and Albany Law The fact that the audience can School, enter a six-year pro_gram. get So much out of this At the end of that time (three production speaks as highly for years at Union and three years at the Mountebanks' performance as Albany) both the B.A. and J.D. it does for Kopit's work. The degrees would be conferred. The precision blending of the actors' program would accept a limited convincing portrayals, as well as number of very qualified st1.1dents the indispensable technical work, every year, and would help attract makes Indians a great triumph. more students of superior quality (President) Larry Brown, Delta Chi; (At-Large) Paul Corwin, Sigma Phi; (Division I) Howie Mastroianni, 256 Davidson; (Division II) Marty Berman, 114 Fox; (Division III) Sue Hick, 207 Richmond; (Division lV) Peter Tavino, 107 South. Combined Glee Club Messiah O.n Saturday evening, November 10, the Union College and Mount Holyoke College Glee Clubs will p.resent George Frederic Handel's The Messiah (Parts I and II) in Memorial ChapeL The program, beginning a:t 8 p.m. will be directed by Professor Hugh Allen Wilson. The Messiah, Handel's most ~uccess:ful· and' best-known ~ratorio, was composed in the year 1741 in twenty-four days. It was first performed at a concert .given for charitable purposes in Dublin~ Ireland, on April 13th, I 742; Handel conducted the f>erformance in person. Thereafter, Handel presented The Messiah every year in London to great applause, but left the work, as a whole, unchange~; thus l>earing witness that this primitive conception of the work was likewise the enduring one. Soloists featured in Saturday's !!)erformance will be Ruth Lakeway, soprano; Patricia Deckert, alto; Richard Shadley, tenor; and Keith Kibler, bass. \ccompanying will be a twenty- ()ne piece , orchestra, including many musicians from the Albany S.ymphony. Ruth Lakeway is Associate Pt:!)fessor of Music at Skidmore College. She has appeared extensively in concerts, recitals, f>'rograms of chamber music, and ()ratorlos. Mis.s Lakeway r>erformed with the Union College Glee CJ.ub two years ago in Bach's 'St. Matthew Passion. · Patricia Deckert, a native of St. Louis, received her voice training at the University of Michigan and she presently studies with Cornelius Reid in New York. She is a member of the Capital Artists Opera Group, and was recently awarded a scholarship to study lieder and chamber music with Yale University m Norfolk, Connecticut. Richard Shadley made his New York debut with the New York Philharmonic and has received wide recogmtton from his performances throughout the United States, Canada, Europe, and Africa. He sang the part of the Evangelist in Bach's St. John Passion last April with the Union Glee Club. Keith Kibler, a Union College student, is well known in this area, recently singing solo parts in Hayden's Creation, Henegger's King David, and Bach's St. John Passion. The recipient of severaJ. vocal scholarships, Mr. Kibler has ~ Professor Charles Swartz, chairman of the Honors Committee, has announced tlie names of four Union students who will be nominated by the College for the Watson Travelling Fellowship. The four nominees for the $7,500 gmnts are Charles Booth, who would like to prepare a photo- journalistic essay of Paris; Paul Marean, who proposes to spend a year st.udying flora peculiar to New Zealand and neighboring South Pacific islands; Anne Pebley, who wants to travel to Japan and !ttudied voice at the Hocllschule for Musik in Vienna. Glee Club director Hugh Allen Wilson was educated at Yale University with graduate study at Yale and under Paul Hindemith, Leo Schrade, Leonhardt, and Marcel Dupre. He is Chairman of the Department of the Arts and Organist in Residence at Union College. Admission for the November lOth performance of The Messiah (Parts I and II) is two dollars for adults, one dollar for students and Union College faculty, and free of charge for Union College students with identification. Tickets will be available at the door. On Saturday evening, December I the Union College Glee Club will present a concert of \Mostly American Music\ at 8:00 p.m. in Memorial Chapel. I Taiwan to continue her study 1 of caliigraphy, a highly refined : East Asian form of painting; 1 and Abby Schutzer, whose project involves travel to Italy, Paris, and Vienna in order to study the works of Michelangelo, Rodin and Gustav Klimt through the medium of drawing their masterworks. In the event that one of the four Union candidates is forced to withdraw before the interview with the Watson representative, Tim McCabe will become a Union nominee. ~·

Pagel CONCORDIENSJS, Friday, November 2, 1973 , Now, More -Than/\Ever hnpeachment is a process designed by the· Founding Fathers not only as a means to remove an illdividual from office, but also as a means towards thorougll investigation,b)' a Congressional Committee, of actions deemed either legally questionable or unacceptable. Impeachment should not be feared, rather it should be viewed as a part of the American poli~ical system that, although seldom empl()yed, is as valid as the processes of recall and referendum ... it is a legitimate and important tool in the democratic process. · Richard Nixon is presently under investigation by the Congress of the United States within the context of impeachment proc~dings. We must believe that the Congress will carry out an insightful and thorough investigation in this regard. Public confidence in the President is at .an all-time low. Reaction to the firing of Archibald -€ox a11d the almost mocking reaction to the recent disclosure of two tapes that do not exist point boldly at this fact. We seriously doubt that the President can ·any longer govern effectively. For the sake of the continuation of the processes of government we feel that he must be impeached. But what of our actions? We must confront the question of whether or not the judiciary and the Congress can deal with the President anf~ return the government to legitimacy. In this regard members of the academic community have a ·special responsibility. They must articulate the principles which are at stake. They must impress upon Congressmen and other national leaders the gravity of the current situation and their duties under the Constitution. Most importantly they must communicate the strength of their convictions to the public at large and join with others in a nationwide struggle for the preservation of democratic rule. The methods of response are numerous. Now, more than ever, we must write our Congressmen; the balance of sentiment in mail they receive in the next few days will be crucial. Massive public expression of opinion - no matter what form it takes- is·equaUy important. The weeks ahead could represent either the redemption of American democracy or the prologue to its collapse. We remain silent at our own periL ·Are WE being heard'? Union College, as of next academic year; · ·will be operating under a twelve-point grading system. This may come as a surprise to some of you ... Understandably so. The grading change may not be · a revolution in academics, yet it can hardly be denied to be of crucial importance to students who, of necessity, are forced to exist within its confines. We admittedly know little of this new grading scheme, and we therefore do not intend to comment on the new system per se. We . are extremely concerned, however, with the conditions that have brought about our lack of knowledge in this regard. It takes a lot to aggravate Union Colfege .students to the extent that they will make an effort to confront someone about a problem. Within the past two days we have been approached by almost 80 students regarding this change. The sentiment ran heavily (almost 75 per cent) against the new system, but that is not what concerned the students most of all. They were, to say the very least, distressed at the total lack of communication that had existed between themselves and their representatives to the All-College Senate ... we stand in total agreement with these students. Suffice it to say that the student members on the Senate did not, for whatever reasons, contact the student body in regard to this rnatter. Let us start at this point and move on to the really vital issue involved here. It is apparent to many of us, including at least one member of the All-College Senate, that there is no provision in the present Governance structure that allows student representatives either the means or the time to contact their constituents, the student body. It is our understanding that the agenda for the last All- College Senate was distributed ten days prior to the meeting. This is certai11ly enough time to allow for reflection upon the issues, but not nearly enough time to allow for adequate consulatation. It is not realistic to expect these representatives to walk door to door and see students; they, as all of us do, have commitments which make this almost impossible. There is no meeting of student divisions wher~ the reps could present the issues and have opinions expressed. The faculty has this means of communication at their disposal, but we do . not. We hope to present some concrete recommendations aimed at increasing the degree of linkage between students and their representatives next week. Any ideas, questions, or comments should be directed to a member of the editorial staff as soon as possible. Letter to the Editor October 30, 1973 To the Editor: It ~hould be noted that the ~tudent who interviewed me for the ''Profs React to Nixon\ article is a conservative Republican and hi~ questions and summaries of my answers shouW naturally be judged in that light. , Frederick Hartwig Assistant Frofessor Dept.. of Political Science An Historical P·ersp·ec·tive Crisis in gove.rnmenf Marty Glickhlan: \Well Red, who do you think will take it?\ Red Barber: \I don't know Marty, that's why they play the g~tme.\ Marty Glickman questioning Red Barber on the outcome· of the 1956 World Series, prior to the first pitch. The dilemma that faces the government and· the governed of this nation has,. in the time since the elction, grown with startling rapidity. A day seldom passes without a disclosure that one year ago would have been a great ~hock to the bulk of the American populace. The abundance of analytical treatments about the ~ituation known as Watergate, the constant barrage of fast-breaking ~tories, the polls that indicate an enormous loss of confidence in the institutions of government and in the people who govern, an of these factors have contribUted to a familiarity with crisis in government on a scale not paralleled in the history of this nation. The continued functioning of a vital press has made it possible for a citizen to get \new\ information on the scandals and their effects in terms· of public reaction to them, at the same time as· does the highest government official. This aspect of the events now confronting the United States is certainly one of the most intriguing. Each new revelation brings a nearly simultaneous reaction. Thus, events unfold quickly and What would have contented the news-hungry journalist for months occurs in one afternoon. Surprises are old- hat in an hour and avid interest is maintained by the steady flow of new, usually more provocative discoveries, accusations, or resignations. by MARlY SHERMAN I appears before the American people in the fall of 1974 looks tired and wound up both literally and figuratively. His . words ·are not carefully measured; tlley are ~trained. The Cox matter may be the most important indicati.on that the President's judgment i:i 1oliffering under tile :press of events. Yet Nixon is. perllonaUy involved in the otttcome of Watergate. We the people, are collectively entangled. The stakes' involved in any mQve towards impeachment cannot .be th,t same for the people and the Pre~ident. He could be impeached, we cannot. The President will not lose interest, The President cannot afford to be !.keptical, The President will relent, but will the people? This cannot· be known at ·this :time. What seems clearer now than it did just several monthsa-80 is that this is no ordinary scandal. Watergate does not represent ~orne momentary indiscretion. Rather, it is a manifestation of 1>omething familiar to the historian. There have beenctucial times in history when a society is at present confronts what that ~ociety must become, if it is to endure and grow. This society is now at such a crossroads. At odds are the spirit of elitism and competition which have made this nation .so powerful, and the spirit of cooperation which is so vital if we are to remain in a position of world leadership. At odds with the circumstances in which we find ourselves are the beliefs that few are capable, few are to be trusted, few are to govern. The testimony in the first phase of the Senate investigation reverberated with statements one could have expected from Stalin men in the early 1930's. The tactics espoused are ugly, and without scruple_ For what purpose did these men · engage in this perverse game'! .Assuming the :best, in pur.sult of a hette.r America. Butthr.ough what' means? What is implicitly stated thrqugh the.ir deeds? l'hat the · peGpJe are fool~~!.Tbat they are to be manipulateq? That if that ~-hould fail coercion Is an effective antidote? That some gr.eat manifestati:on of a . human organism knows what.is best for his flock'! What confronts Amerl.ca is the challeng~ that periodica-lly arises in all .civili.!':at~ons. Are we to let the horitons of t.hought expand to l>Uit our -cir~umstances ·or· are we going to try to restrain progress in ordet to maintain a paradigm that is convenient' only by its presence? The three basic issues before the House the Special Prosecutor, the Ford nomination, and the impeachment inquiry - are all being acted on:. The questions of a new , Special Prosecutor and the meth<>d of his appointment, and the Ford nomination will probably be disposed of in relatively short order. The ih1peachment inquiry will not. As more active controversies appear in the. courts, . the constitutional issues that are at the root of most calls. for impeachment will be tested and tested again. That there will, at ~orne point, be a court order the President feels he cannot follow is a distinct possibility. That ·as these battles intensify and repeat in their form, the President may persist and vehement public sentiment may wane is also a· possibility, but no longer a likely one. There .exists the possibility that Nixon, one day, will be remembered as having greatly influenced the psyche of America for the better, however inadvertently. The durability of the \American political conscience\ has been and will be sorely tested in the light of Watergate. There was, before the \uncovery\ of the White House tape system, every indication that the public was tiring of an already grave matter. Since. that development there have been few lapses in what appears to have been a mood of political skepticism. That Needed: -Moralizer · !>kepticism has in the past two wee1<s. given way to public outrage over the Cox affair and most recently the mystery of the missing tapes. A knowledge of Nixon's pa~>t may, in some way, be useful in indulging in speculation as to the course futute events might take. Adlai Stevenson, iri the 1956 election for the Presidency, remarked, \Richard Nixon is the kind of ~<ln who would chop down a Redwood tree and stand on the stump to make a speech about conservation.\ Indeed duplicity has been a characteristic impression left by the Nixon Administration. The Nixon of the late 1960 presidential campaign may also provide an interesting memory at this time. By the end of that campaign he was tired, worn, and under immense pressure. His ~peeches' .lost themes before they were finished; grammar went the way of the Wind on several occasions. The Nixon that by FRED WEINSTEIN - Although it will be some time (perhaps never) before we hear the entire story of what wrongs were perpetrated in the Watergate S_candals, l would like to speculate as to how we might right the wrongs that have been revea-led up to this point. Since it would be presumptuous for me to assume that I alone could answer this question, I have sought the insights of Professor Charles Tid march. Gnerally, the wrohgd oings of Watergate have involved the abuse of authority by men in powerfu.l positions. One's immediate hopes for the prevention of future wrongdoing of this sort might rest with the Senate Watergate Committee,, w h i c h w i I J m a ke recommendations to Congress as to what legislation will enable us to correct the evils of Watergate, but unfortunately, as Professor Tidmarch points out, .. you cannot legislate morality.\ He cited two reasons; one that \there is no consensus as to what morality is,\ and second, that there is no reason to believe why men who broke the law in the past will obey new laws in the future. REALE'S CAMERA SHOP NIKON LEICA MINOLTA \Supplies for the Professional & Amateur LENSES • FILM o PAPER HOURS: M~n.·Fri. 11•9, Sat. tt.:5 1957 Foster Ave. (off Nott) Tel: 377-44~6 If laws cannot place ·checks on the abuse of authority by men in power, one wonders how we can put checks on them at all. Professor Tidmarch suggested the creation of a permanent \Fourth party\ (independent of the Executive, Legislative, and Judicial branches), who would perform the duties of a special prosecutor. He would be \a watchdog\ who would scrutinize government .actions and investigate and prosecute where he saw fit. In order to preserve the integrity of such an office, Professor Tidmarch suggested the following guidelines: I ) The Special Prosecutor would be an elected official so that his job status would not be dependent on having amiable relations with government officials. 2) All candidates for the job would be initially screened in order to be certain that they were qualified. The candidates determined to be unqualified would be removed from the race. 3) The campaigns of candidates would be publicly financed and the elected official would receive \a generous salary\ in order to prevent outside influences on the prosecutor. Howeve .. r, the proposal for the creation of such an office may not be a very practical one because, as Professor Tidmarch explained, \it is a revolutionary idea,\ and as ~uch, its chances of government approval are slim. Tidmarch felt a move which would be more discreet and yet just as effective would be providing for the election of the United States Attorney-Genera'! instead of allowing the President to appoint him. One of the I - Continued on Page 7 ... - The the p: into a facts ~ and d The begin term Than~ three Christ split t vacati resum until would le.ngth meet' The are ob ~umm benefi calend sessio1 of the and vacati' colleg~ sports in tht :,imila Alo are di term, :.orne taugh1 weeks enjGy over ~ being studer Then btuder be no Yar body, were \Wha1 recent Steeri1 Ill ca below. ST1 a grea the h peoplt the 1 exper vacati, The the d look f They wppo the s1 vague week work AD favor and v. or pn large imme< from 1 Rea opinio this i especi: feasibi type ( excess along week follow Qut opin • recom C\omn caleml ''Go out e~ to see there'< work holida this y for anywa me to (

The Split-UI'calendar issue for' the past week bas put students into a quandary as to what the facts are as well as the advantages and Qisadvantages; The calendar proposed would begin the fall term earlier. Winter term would· begin at the en~ of Thanksgiving vacation and go for three weeks until the three-week Christmas vacation, which w<>uld split the term, At the end of this vacation the winter term wcmld resume for sev.en more Weeks until Spring vacation, which would be two-and-a..;half weeks in length. S,pring term would then meet without a break. The advantages to this system are obvious. Students in search of mmmer employment would benefit by getting out earlier. This calendar would put Union in session at the same time as most of the other Consortium Colleges and would give us similar vacation pedods as many other colleges and universities. The sports program would also benefit in the long run by a calendar ~imilar to other schools. Along with advantages . there are disadvantages. With a broken term, students may tend to forget l>Ome of the material- that was taught during the first three weeks. Many students do not enjoy the idea of \studying at all over a vacation. Wi-th mid-terms being the fifth week of the term students will have to be cautious. The month vacation which many ~tudents hold in high esteem will be no longer available to them. Various members of the student body, faculty, and administrators were posed with the question, \What i~ your opinion of the recent recommendation by the Steering committee of the Split-_ III ca·lendar?\ Their remarks are below. STUDE,NT OPINiON shows a great deal of support in favor of the issue, but there are many people opposed to It - especially the upperclassmet1 who have experienced the Christmas vacation month: The FACULTY particularly the division representatives - look favorably upon the Split-Ill: They hare an attitude . of wpporting the best interests of the students; however they are vague when speaking of the fifth week mid-term in the amount of work students may be assigned. ADMINISTRATORS are in favor of the split-three calendar and want to arrive at some form or provision which will prevent large assignments or tests immediately following the return from Christmas vacation. Read over - the following opinions and keep informed on this issue. It is controversial ' especially among students; its feasibility seems to rest on the type of provision to prevent an excessive work load winter term along with preventing tests in th~ week of winter term immediately following Christmas. Question: \What is your opinion of the recent • recommendation by the Steering Committee of the Split lii calendar?\ STUDENTS ''Good idea. I would like to get out earlier, whether for a job or to see my friends. I don't think there'd be much trouble with work over the Christmas holidays. By the. time we started this year all my friends had left for their respective schools anyway. There was no reason for me to stay home. It was wasted George's. Music Store-··· 508 State St. Schenectady tel. 374-5921 College Discount CONCORDIENSIS, £.rid_ay, November2, 1973 ·split Trimester Analysis time .• \ \lt\s a pretty good idea but I dori't know ,jf it will go over with the other students. I wonder how much lime will be gaiQed anyway. One advantage to this present l>ystem is that in the Chrjstmas holidays you can forget· about l>Chool. Even if there weren't work .assigned you wot~ld still have to remember all the first three weeks (for the final). Maybe it would be o. ~- if there was a mini-final for the first three weeks and the final final ,covered just the last three weeks. l just don't think the term l>hould. be split up.'' \Each of the points is valid but it\s a hell of a nice feeling to be finished with finals. When you return you can ease back into the flow of things. You don't have to pick up from where you left off.\ \It's a good ·schedule but this change makes it perfect.\ \I'd probably like to get out earlier, but I don't like having Christmas vacation after winter term has started. I'm not sure really.\ \ would like that better because we'd get out earlier and !>tart earlier.\ \Anything that gets us out earlier is better. It's ridiculous that Union gets out so much later than most other schools.\ \I don't like it. I kind of like our schedule to be different from other schools.\ \I don't like it because it breaks up the winter term. I don't want to have work on Christmas vacation and ifs not good to break up the winter courses.\ ''The only problem with the present schedule is that it's hard to line up summer jobs when we get out so late.\ \I like it the way it is now. It ends right before Christmas so that you can relax over the vacation.\ \I am definitely for it.\ \I like the new schedule better ex.cept for the idea of breaking up winter term over Christmas.\ \.lfs rotten. What we have now is. terrific.\ It is good to be on the same ~ched ule as. other schools.. One drawback is that we might have to do work during Christmas.\ \l'm in favor. It is easier to find ~ummer jobs and it coincides with other school calenders.\ \! like it because I don't like ~tarting as late · as we do ~nd ending as late. Ending so late is a disadvantage for summer jobs. A disadvantage is that you will have to work over Christmas vacation but rd be willing to put up with it .•• \lt may be a good idt;!a if there were fairly stringent rules set up ~0 the professors could not set up projects or reading that would, because of most students' tendency towards procrastinating, end up being done during vacation.\ \l'm in favor of it because of vacations, especiaily summer. A1so spring vacation is longer.\ \I like it because it is the same ~chedule as other colleges and you get out sooner.\ FACULTY (Di.vision I) Professor Jan Ludwig: \I can't ::.peak as r.epresentative of the division. because I don't know how everyone else feels. But I personally feel that probably on balance it is a better calendar. =········~~:····· I THE I 5. Other Side i ·• fr· d · • .1·0 O·OY: I 'IHandcrq(ted & : 1 · Imported Items\ 1 • 135JAY ST. • • • • • Tel.377-0477 8 •••••••••••••••• by GEOFFREY TAYLOR The rea~;ons are the usual ones - it would mean better interaction with ihe Consortium, and we'd be out earlier, which students and fa~ulty would prefer. I've alwayli l>illd that the Split-Ill is no worse · than the regular calendar, which creates a very anti-climactic last week of fall term. If a term ,is to be split it would be better at the beginning.'; . (D~vision II) . PFof. Kershner: \I'd probably hsteil very carefully to the debate in th.e College Senate. I've talked about this with a number of people this fall and a majori(y of !-ltudents seem to be in favor of this change. I have no idea of where my department stands because we have not yet discussed it. The arguments in favor are that this change would put us in keeping with the Consortium and it would cut down the period of classes in May and June. Also, it i!. not very exciting to teacli in these months, even tbough the faculty works hard to maintain the students• interest. It might lead to a better teaching and learnjng atmosphere. First of all it costs a great deal of money t~ come here, and if our students feel that they are hindered in getting summer jobs, we should work to remove this disadvantage, even though with President Nixon's economic policies it is hi:nd to say how many student jobs will be available nex.t summer. The only question is whether the split term proves to be a handicap. The third week, may become a period of negotiations over the vacation work load with the fourth week a new period of adjustment. Of course the faculty wouldn't make unreasonable· demands about work but the ~tudents must realize what the fifth week is mid-terms and work would be due on the fourth and fifth week. The students will have to be ready to work the fourth week of classes. The arguments for and against this issue must come from the ~tudents. I will follow their preference.\ Prof. Jonas: \The calendar is an i~!>ue which agitates us on various occasions, and I feel more time is l>pent on it than is worth. The P.resent calendar has the major VIrtue of reducing the student's work load to three courses a term, and the evidence is fairly clear that this is beneficial. The proposed change would not alter this characteristic yet would and my major complaint with the rresent calendar which is the lack of sufficient time between Winter and Spring term. Yet this, nor the compatibility with the Consortium, which will really not create more cross enrollment because the problem is more of transportation and scheduling, and S. U.N.Y. and R.P.I. will ~till have different calendars, is not really a strong basis for altering. our calendar. The change will really only effect the students, because the faculty's -schedule is really determined by the local public ~chools· calendar than Union's. With all things equal, I would prefer to start and end earlier. This would relieve our students of the handicap of having to rush in filing grant and schotarship DARI- TREET, FRIDAY S..PECIAL HADDOCK DINNER Fren~h Fries, Cole Slaw • Dinner Roll .... $1.69 2049 VANVRANKEN Hoo.1Fri. 6-9 Sat. 8•9 Te,. 377-4261 a.pplications, of the handicap of getting summer jobs and the PfOblem of a seemingly endless ~pring term. The previous proposition to alter the calendar was . dropped due to student apathy. · The only solution to our !>Cheduling problem would be to return to a semester system, which no one wants or to a four courses for two terms arrangement. The mmt-term concept is not very workable and !>eems to be good for only one third of the students with the remammg two thirds doing nothing frui·tful. The only thing we can do is use this porposal to 'vhich I see no great objections . .It ~plits one term which is already of !-.hort tertn but I don't see anything terribly hazardous in this. The main problem is one of exams. If they are given before the break it suggests that the term ha~ two separate parts, almost creating two mini-terms. I can !.ympathize with students about a work load over vacation, but it Would be necessary· as the fifth week is a week of mid-terms, and continuity in a virtually 13-week term is a necessity. The main problem would be to cope with the \lapse time.\ Students would have to realize that this increase in time would increase teachers' expectations in the quality of work and that assignments over \ acation would likely be a reality. These problems are all considerations in the formation of the students' and faculty's opinions, ones which are posed b,ut n~t solved by this proposal. (Division III) Professor Rot~ Qfl.d. three angles from which to study such a recommetldation: As Division Chairman of the Sciences, as Department Chairman, and as an individual faculty member. In his role as the first two, he said he could make no formal 'Statement' a!> the matter had not been di:scm:sed within the division. As a combination of division .chairman. and individual faculty· member. Professor Roth's views were as follows: lf a change from the current trimester system is necessary or de:Jrable, the Split Ill is preferable to alternate programs ~uch as 4-0-4 or 4-1-4. The split term would provide more problems for the Biology and Chemistry Departments than for other departments (e.g. lab ~pecimens and experiments that mu!>t be kept fresh) but these difficulties would not be imurmountable. While favoring the change tn Split-HI at U r\-ion. Professor Roth also made the point that the advantages of the change must outweigh the disadvantages. Academically a split term is not advantageous. However, greater participation in the Consortium, which the re-scheduling of terms would allow. would be. In conclusion he stressed the point that if the Split-Ill would benefit the greatest amount of students at {Inion the division w0uld almost assuredly back it. (Division IV) Prof. Potter: \Since I am being proxied right now by Prof. Aubrey, 1 haven't heard much about the Split-Ill calender recommendation, but I feel it PETER PA-USE RESTAURANT . ·~~Student Discount, \ . Mon • ..Sat. 5:30-7:30 535NOTTST. .Page3 would be all right to split a term. In fact, I'm in favor of it since I understand it would benefit the )\tudents in their search · of !-.Ummer jobs by ending the academic year earlier. Being proxied I cannot vote, but I am definitely in favor of the SpliHll calendar.\ Prof. Aubrey: \I would say that serious thought should be given to the implementation of the Split-Ill calendar. The major reason for the change is that the Split-HI calendar would break up the stretch ·of classes that we now have between January and June. This stretch is too much for me and I imagine for the students too. or course there is the potential hazard of getting loaded down in the split. which would call for some ethical practice on the part of the faculty to prevent, out other than that I feel it is a good idea.\ Prof. Schwartz: \Starting and ending the academic year earlier il> a good idea. I agree that the )\tudents should get out sooner.\ ADMINISTRATORS Smith: Mark Smith, the Dean of Students, has no opinion on the Split-HI issue at this point. Smith, who was named Dean of Students last July, said he \hasn't been around long enough\ to formulate a strong opinion, and <tdded that it would be \unfair\ for him to choose sides until he was \absolutely sure what I'm talking about.\ Enteman: ''I understand ~tudents want it for employment purposes,\ said Provost Willard Enteman. \If this is the case, it's important that we go to the Split- Ill.\ Enteman believes that \Calendars are a · matter of convenience,\ and that the Split- ! H would put Union \more in gear with the Mohawk-Hudson Comortium. which would be important for students.\ \This has been an issue for )\everal years ·now.\ the Provost ob1>erved. \It's not going to go a way until it's tried out. I think the )\tudents can· get it if they really want it.\ Lichterman: Dean of Faculty Martin Lichterman IS an enthusiastic supporter of the Split-Ill. \I've been an advocate for ~everal years.'' he said. / He pointed out that the Split- Ill would \put Union in line with other colleges, locally and across the country.\ The proposed <:alendar change would make it ea~ier for cross-enrollment hetween Union and other local )\chools. Lichterman sees a great advantage in having fall term exam11 before Thanksgiving, and in extending the break between the winter and spring terms to two weeks. However. Lichterman conceded di:,advantages in the Split-Ill with regard to some lab courses. such al> biology. Nevertheless. the Hiology Department feels that · thi!-1 disadvantage would not ju~tify blocking a calendar change. Licterman also expressed fear that the Split-Ill would complicate sports scheduling, hut Director of Athletics Bruce Allil>on disagreed. \Putting Union hack in phase with other schools \ill help our sports program,\ <;ontinued on Page 6 tevfs Dave's. Mens Shop 453 State St. (downtown Schenectady) ~~~~~~~~; mama t Bianchi's ~ u Banquet Facilities~ Available Free to ~ s College Groups\ 1135 Barrett

Page4 CONCORDIENSIS, Friday, November 2, 1973 Timberlake The Numbers Man. Both Dynamic and Effective by JUDY DEIN The man. behind the numbers (of the budget, that is), at Union College is Mr. Dale F. Timberlake. Although he was hirect in December of 1964 as Comptroller, Mr. Timberlake's duties have been extended to include those of treasurer and assistant secretary of the College. Along with the President and the Provost, Mr. Timberlake has the final word concerning exactly how the money will be allocated each year. As C o m p t r o II e r, M r. Timberlake is . in charge of internal financial affairs and keeping accurate financial books and reports. Each year the books are audited by an outside Certified Public Accountant. The present and proposed budgets are on file in the Library. Each member of the Budget and Priorities Committee also has a copy. The idea that the students have no right to know about the financial status of the College is no longer accepted. lf one is interested, the numbers are there to be seen. Mr. Timberlake is a member of the Budget and Priorities Committee. The committee's rep01ts plus the individual department's requests are all influential in making up the school's budget. The Board of Trustees and the Finance Committee must approve the budget. An outside investment management firm is employed to help decide how best to invest the school's money. For the first time in six years, lin ion College is operating with a ~urplus budget. At this point, however, the future does not look ~o bright. Plans have been proposed that call for $11 million to opera.te the College at the level to which Union is accustomed. Mr. Timberlake has found only $10 million available for the 1974- 75 year. The budget, however, is tentative at this point. The fitst proposed budget is not submitted to the Board. of Trustees until January. Then much of the expenses are still unknown, especially since faculty contracts will not as yet have been sent out. A revised budget is submitted to the Board in April, and the final plan in June. Revisions continue to be made throughout the year if · It is far too easy to take for granted that the majority of weekends will include some sort <1f campus social function, never · recogmzmg the phenomenal amount of time, e~pense and aggmvation the SociaiCommittee exerts in its sponsoring of concerts and other events. This article is not an attempt to , glorify Peggy Miller and the other members of the committee,. but tather to increase the awareness . 1 111\** : of the. student body as to the ,jj};:· 'behind the scenes' of an end Photo by Fred'Abb~ production. · How little most of us have The man with the money~ probably realized, and it is necessary. Hearings r::oncerning each department's requests for 1974-75 will begin on Monday. The College is trying to avoid any increase in tuition, despite .the possible deficit. Mr. Timberlake does not predict any major cut in ~cholarships either. However, he does forsee a trend towards more package deals including ~cholarships, loans, and grant-in- aid jobs. lf necessary, Mr. Timberlake, acting as treasurer, is authorized to borrow \lP to $500,000 with the permission of one member of the Finance Committee. Building on campus was not paid for from tuition fees; cash drive brought in $9 millio.n. This was not enough to cover all the cost:,, so gifts not specifically a.llocated for other purposes were u:,ed, There has been an increase in alumni gifts during the past :,everal years. Alumni now contribute over $300,000, their donatiom having fallen sharply due to student unrest on campus in 1968, but have risen since then. Union is losing money on ~everal of its operations, Among these are the Saga food service and the Girling Center. The ~chool collects all board money each term. At the end of the term Saga submits a bill to V nion for (he' total ·number of students ~erved. Union supplies all the machinery at Saga, and may keep a~. profit . the difference between Saga's bill and the board money collected. Up to now however, the expenses for maintaining the food ~ervice have been larger than predicted, and there is a deficit, not a profit. The goal, according to Mr. Timberlake, is to break even on the food service. imperati-ve to have some of the facts. The Social Committee has a hudget of $25,000 for the year, comprised of $12 from each ~tudent's $60 a year Student Activities fee. (It is for this reason that our tickets are less expensive than those of non-Union ~tudents.) There is also a projected intake of $13,500 from ticket sales for this year. From the top: Booking a con ce:rt ( severa I weeks m advance), usually through a commissioned agent, is the beginning of complexity. Big name concerts (e.g. the Beach Boys), cost in the general area of $12~ 15,000 a performance, and expenses do not end here. Anticipated other expenses for this year will include $350 on advertising, $2700 for security. and approximately $150 per concert for printing tickets and po~ters. Additional {O the appearing artist is an opening act, u:,ually costing in the neighborhood of $1000. Adding two spotlights, at $50 each for a ~how, and rental of a sound company, not to mention picking the artist up at the airport, dinners, etc.\· a $12,000 concert hecomes, 'at a conservative estimate, $15-16.000. Now, Memorial Chapel has a capacity of I ,000 seats. It has· heen impossible to rent Proctors or the Armory. We are not allowed use of the Field House or · Ciirling Center, and there is no need or desire on the part of neighboring colleges to do a concert in conjunction with llnion. Some simp'le arithmetic reveals that even selling out a concert at an average of $8.00 a ~eat, the Social Committee would ~till lose a blatant $7-8,000 on a big name concert. No Split Ill This past weekend, the loss of $8,200 on the Ike and Tina Turner Concert was an absolute fiasco, with Peggy Miller admitting it to be the \biggest by JEFFREY BROOMES '75 JAMES KANE '76 CUCHIBOULLOSA'77 This small piece is merely to ask a few questions about the calendar change. We only want to get a few people thinking. What's the purpose served by .the calendar change? From what I've been told it's to allow :.tudents to get out of school earlier to have a better chance for a job. This is reaUy great, but how many more schools get out before the first and third weeks of June? Not many right? What I mean is, if this change is to help our job opportunities any we will have to get out in May. Think for a while Larry Brown!!! How many schools get back at t·he beginning of September? Most of them. Our book store, in the opinion of most, is very prompt in getting books for us when ordered. This; sweetheart, will not nearly be 1he same if this desired (by whom?) change goes into effect. What about aur much welcomed terms abroad? We will no longer be on the same schedule as the other countries. Now doesn't that mean that unless We are willing to sacrifice an extra term, this program will soon have to go through many changes. And what about those students who ' ' wish to study own? abroad on their mi.scalculation in several years on Yet another question. About those of us who live in somewhat distant areas. What can we do with ten ,. days for Christmas? so·me of us love spending this holiday with our families. Do you know that it is more expensive to go to Europe or the Caribbean for one week than it is to go for three weeks? It also takes almost ten days to travel to and from one part of the country to another part. What's left? How about those Pre-Med majors who have to leave their labs refrigerated, or what ever, for those p.recious ten days for Christmas vacation? And don't ~orne of us forget enough during the weekends as it is? I guess the first two weeks after Christmas hreak will be spent refreshing our memories. Hey Professors, I know you wm not be refreshing anyones memories!!! The calendar change may be good for sqme but let',s wait four years. Give the incoming freshman class something none of us here was given. A chance as to whether or not they want to live with that- system: Don't make a change just for the sake of change. We love Union the way it is. Allow us to keep feeling this way. ~eating capacity.'' lt is unfortunate, and although there was 'only' a loss of .$2500 on the Bonnie Raitt Concert and $2200 lost on the Lemmings Prod:uction, the Social Committee will have to function next semester in terms of the mistakes of this term • Speaking of winter term, it may also be pointed out that the concerns/ interests· of the Social Committee do not rest solely in concerts. This winter, especially, (due to both the lack of money and the fact that groups generally do not tour during this time), the agenda will include more dances and events such as the recently ~uccessful Halloween Monster Mash, a possible wine-tasting party,. a Blues Weekend, or some ~ort of 'educational' workshops. The Committee intends to hold (more) open meetings, and they are receptive to student sentiment beyond their official members. The Social Committee is truly at tile mercy of performing groups. Appearing artists often demand, in contrac;,t, that a sound company be used, and it is usually a ~pecific one of the . artisfs choice. And, more often than not, the performer will insist on a particular opening group as well, or he will not play here. Among other things, Firesign Theatre cancelled their e11gagement here only after tickets and posters for it had already been printed at the c.xpense of the Social Committee. And, most recc;ntly, Peggy Miller ~igned a contract for lke and Tina Turner to play two 60 minute ~hows. When it was returned with. the tatters' (agent's) signatures, it had been altered to read that they would play two 45 minute acts. Groups are often unreliable, and this is not the fault of the Social Committee ~ whether it be cancellations, or late arrivals as ·in the Ike and Tjna TurnerConcerl. ·There are n·umer~ms ins. and ouN, and inev·itable C(}mplications with provid'ing campus e.ntertainment. If nothing else,· it i~ · certainly ohvious that the Socia;l ·Committee · i:> one committee which is seeking to be hoth dynamic and effective. The Better Judge by BI>LLY DeBE~R Next Tuesday, for the first time in over 50 years, the voters of New Y qrk State will elect the Chief Judge to the Court of Appeal:;. The victor w.ill serve a 14-yea.r term as the. premier judge in the state. The major contestants are J1,.1dge Cha.rJes Breital (Repuh-Lih.) and Jacob Fuchsburg ( Dem.). The Conservative candidate, James l.eff, does not· appear to be a major threat, and my comments will therefore center on the former pair of candidates. Fuchsberg .has been a practicing attor.rtey since graduating N.Y.U. Law School in 1935. Tluol!ghout this often bitter and expensive campaign, one of his central issues has. been the argument that Breitel's past record is weak in the area of civil liberties. He proposes that the ~tate judicial system would become more efficient if full use of present facilities is made and ~o-called \lazy\ judges are made to produce. Judge Brei tel received his law degree from Columbia Law ~chool in 1932. In direct contrast to Fuch~berg, Breitel has 23 years of state judicial experience, the last ~even of which have been as an Associate justice on the Court of Appe<Jls. He advocates making the courts more effici~nt and responsive to the needs of N.Y. State, centralized control under a professional court administrator accountable directly to the Chief Judge, and a commission to handle and act on complaints a hout judges. It is my belief that Judge Breitel's election to this crucial );fate position would gr-eatly henefit the citizens of New York State. It ·is evident that Fuchsberg and Leff lack the judicial expetience needed to effectively perform the duties .of Chief Judge. Jw.d.ge Breitel's ample L'Xperience with the Judicial ~y~tem, ana pal'ticularlv his ::;even year~ on the Court of Appeals, afford him the background to fully un~erstand the problems faced bv the courts and tc> !-.UCcessfu-lly implement the pte) per changes that will modernize the !-.Y~tem, and particularly his seven yean on the Court of Appeals, afford him the background to fully understa.nd the problems faced by the courts and to :-.uccessfuHy implement the proper changes that will modernize the :--ybtem and increase· its efficiency. In addition, Mr. Fuchsberg was not found qualified by the Democratic Party's screening committee during the primary, in which he harelv won the nomination. This· ~arile panel approved of Judge Breitel's 4 ualificatio.ns. Furthermore. the A~~ociation of the Bar of New York City rated Fuchsberg \not approved,\ although in fairness to the candidate they did not elaborate on this. The gap in qualifications is obvious enough that Mr. Leff (a registered Democrat) remarked in a New York Times interview Wet. 27). that if he had two votes his ~econd vote would go to Breitel and not to Fuchsberg. One last point that should be made is that too much credence ~hould not be put into the· party More on next page founded. at Union College m 1877 Editor\ in Chief .. ., •.... u •••••••••••••••.•••••••••••• ,. •••••••••• Al_Reisch Managing Editors· ......................... ._ .•......•. R.ita Morandi Dave Strom N·ews Editor ·······-····················· .. ··········· ..... G~off Taylor Features Editor .................................•... Phyllis Edelman Sports Editor .....................•.... ~ .•................. Bart Mercer Investigative Editor ...................................... Don Krone Business Manager ...................................... Aian Gnessin National Ads ................................................ Steve Kelly Photography Editors .................................. Bill Erichson Les Kernan Jeff Weilberg Copy Editor ................................ ···········•.o••Phil AI!!O.bes subscriptions......................................... Mike Bernstein STAFF: Celeste Lindsey, Dotsie Whitney~ Karen Sokoloff; Linda Mackey, Steve Klak, Lisa Baron, Fred Abott, Kevin Scoles, Jon Sargent. Coneotdiensls is published every Wedn'esday during the school year except during examination and vacation periods by the student body of Union College, Schenectady, N.Y. National ·Advertising Representative: National Educational Advertisiil8 Servi~ lnc .• NYC. Editorial office, 'Old Gym Hall, .Onion College. Publication office, The Jewish World Publications, 771 State Street. Schenectady, New York, 12307 (346-2356) .. Entered ln the Schenectady post office as Seeon<FCI~ Mail Matter. Subscription mte: 20 cents a copy, 8 dollars a year delivered anywhere in the United States. ' Deadline for all copy, wbich must-be TYPED AN.D DOlJBLE SPACED. is 1 p.m. on Tuesday .at the Coo~or&.- office. located third floor Camegie. · The office phone number is 370-615.5. but the office is in use only on Monday and Thul'sday nights. FOR ALL . EDITORIAL MA'ITERS CALL THE EDITOR-IN-CHIEF AT 370-6126. FOR INFORMATION CALL MRS. MARltA IN THE StUDENT ACTIVfriEs OFFICE AT 31o-6U8. ...... .. (

CONCORDIENSIS, Friday~ November~. 1973 •••. ANti· t't> \.\V..E A5 THt;; G~\.NC. CooL. &R MAk'E IT \'01;)< ~ EP.. W\\i 'tov t'nE. ue '\)ON 1 1 S~\)T l\E.L L \ \ \ .. - mR. A a ou-r G:.C>\NG (J) f» ~ES\ OE:.N \T \-\0~ \0 o '/~u ?Etl,.. YCJ..>f!.. foPULA~\-ry ~A1'\Ni0 6 €. LCIW · \30 \'/ 0 NEX1 QV'ES1lON Elections from preceding page affiliations of each candidate. Mr. I.eff is a registered Democrat, but is the Conservative .::andidate. Mr. Fuchs berg . had difficulty gaining his party's nomination and probably is not the candidate of a majority of Democrats. Finally, although Breitel is a Republican in a bad year for federal Republicans, he also enjoys the backing of the Liberal Party. Thus, it is apparent in my mind that Judge Breitel is the man best ~uited for the important position of Chief Judge. Regardless of whether readers will take my advice and vote for Breitel, it is important that potential voters be made aware of this election that will determine who will hold the top judicial position in New York fHr at least the next fourteen years. Geo,rge's Music Store- ~~ 508 State St. Schenectady Tel. 374-5921 College Discount ------1 ONCE BENI:ATH A CAMPUS TREE, A KNIGHT DID COURT WITH LITTLE ,SUCCESS A COMELY MAID, KNOWN BYo.U; AND ALL TO BE A CULTIST. UNDAUNTED BY RESUI<E, HE DID AtiD eVEN LESS WITH HIS JAGGER. WHEREUPON A FRIENDLY DRAGON DID PULL HIS COAT AND SAY THAT THE MAIDEN WAS, IN FAC'f; INTO THE CULT OF THE FROG, AND THAT THE KNIGHT MUST DON A FROG SUIT AND CARRY TWO SIX- PACKS OF SCHAEFER BEER (SCHAEFER 6f!NG THE IRRJ;FUTA!3Lf SYMBOL OF ENCHANTMENT BECAUSE OF ITS ENCHANTED FLAVOR THAT NEVER F.ADES GOBLET AFTER FROSTY-COLD GOf'L.ET ). AND THE KNIGHT DID .APPROACH THE MAIDEN FULL OF HOPE THAT SHE WOULD FAll,. FOR THE OI.D PRINCE~ IN- IHE\' FROG RO.UTINE AND P-LAIH A 1<156 ON HIM . . : ATTEMPT, BY CUNNING AND GUILE, TO DISCOVER THE EXACT CULT TO WHICH 1HE MAID WAS COMMITTED AND THEREBY PREY UPON HER SYMPATHIES. BUT SHE PROVED LITTLE IMPRESSED WITH HIS BOGART. AND SHE DID, . AS PREDICTED, KISS HIM MOST FONDLY. WHEREUPON, ZOUNDS.' Schaefer Breweries, New York, N.Y., Baltimore. Md., Lehigh Valley, Pa.

Page6 CONCORDIENSJS. Friday, November 2, /973 Opinion Union's Athletic Confer·ence (This is the first o_f a seri~s ~f articles dealing watll Unaon s relationship with the New Engl~d Small Coli ege Atllleti«: Conference) Hiding in the depths of anonymity despite its vast importance, the New England Small College Athletic Conference, an informal agreement betwee~ liberal ar.ts ~chools, has begun and wtll continue to shape the athletic program at Union. Signed by the presidents of Amherst, Bates, Bowdoin, Colby, Hamilton, Middlebury,. Trinity, Tufts Union Wesleyan, and WiJii~ms in May of 1970, this unique contract ~stablish.ed guidelines for scheduling, practice regulations, post-season c.ompetition, recruiting, financial aid awards and several other items. The basic principles ate as follows: I. The program in intercollegiate athletics is to be kept in harmony with the e~!>ential educational pur,poses of the institution, 2. Competing players are to be representatives of the student hody. 3. The academic authority in each college is to control interc-ollegiate .athletic policy. (emphasis added) Quoting from the conference brochure, · \It is : based on an agreement among Amherst College. Bowdoin College, Wesleyan · Univer.sity, a_nd Williams College which was flfSt drafted in 1955 ·and has been ~ubseguently amended on the oasis of experience.\ Dissatisfaction with various rules has been communicated, c~pecially when the b~sketball team was denied entry m post- ~eason play two years ago, by ~orne coaches and players. :\ow that NESCAC is past its Hedging stage, an exa.rnination of its performance and Its effect on Union in particular is in order. Research and an interview with Athletic Director, Bruce Allison provided information. f~LIGIBILITY Pending further review, freshmen at colleges with less than 1000 men are eligible to compete in varsity football. (Inion is not allowed to use frosh in both football and basketball unless it appeals to the President's Executive Committee. l Inion is placed at a severe recruiting disadvantage since it can~ot play freshmen. We are among a minority of . sc.hools \\hich may not (Williams, Wesleyan, Trinity, and t~e Ivy I eague are others), despite the n.ew NCAA regulation allowing freshmen to compete on varsity team~. !\ majority of the schools on the basketball and football ~chedules can use first year athletes. Allison 18 in favor of imtit utional self-determination concerning the use of freshmen. By DON KRONE \If a quality student can take advance placement. tests and by- PilSS his freshmen year, then qualiiy student-athletes should be able to play varsity sports,'' Allison said. \We are hopeful that this change will be implemented in the future.\ POST SEASON COMPETITION According to the confe~ence ru]es, \Participation in regJOn;;t-1 tournaments during the academic year shall be limited to events played on coJlege campuses which do not lead to further competition or .conflict ~ith examination schedules, provided that such tournaments do· not extend the season more than 7 calendar days beyond the Saturday of the final week of scheduled competition.\ . At the time the agreement was drafted, only those s~hools playing hockey could qual~fy for ~uch tourneys. However, m the fall of 1972 the ECAC .expanded its Division II Tournament from four to eight teams thus knocki~g Hamilton, Williams, Bowdom, Amherst, Middlebury, and Colby out of contention, since the event would last too long. Bowdoin College President, Roger Howell vigorou~ly protested the ECAC expans.wn (Bowdoin was .defend.lng champion at the ·time.) Smce then. N ESCAC has been ~uccessful in influencing the EC AC to create regional tourneys in basketball, baseball, soccer, and lacrosse. However, these events do not lead to further play and the competition is in general much inferior to those. tournaments which do go beyond the regional level. It appears that the initial ruling favored the New England Division II hockey schools over other post-season de~ands. Th.us. inequities existed In allowmg :-everal members to compete and others not to. , SCHEDULING According to the NESCAC rules \In view of the diversity of arra~gements and traditional a~~ociation of mem.ber in!>titutions each institution ts to retain full freedom of scheduling, with no obligation -to play given teams in any sport. \While the member institutions are encouraged to compete with one another, there are to be no conference championships or rankings in any sport.\ • Being a member of. a conference that has no standmgs and no conference championships i!> completely ludicrous. NESC AC also limits the number of playing dates for each ~port and regulates the sta~Hn_g dates for practices. No log1c 1s presented in the conference · document stating why the number of games or the starting times for practices were selected: For example, practiCe for an winter sports cannot start. bef~re LeVfS Dave's. Men~ Shop 453 State St. (downtown Schenectady) r-Ma:ri:e-aG~~ 'For three . ' Generations ~~:~: * 16ci Jay St. ~t m .:;:. l-or H unl.'>l Sen n;e . ~~~~!: }: And G(wd .lewclfy HERSHEL M~t.J.~!£.~ ... ~.- ...... ~.~:~·nm:.:::::::::~J~~\ Wi,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,::~::=:=:=:=:=:::=:=:=:::=:==::=~==:=:=:====:::::::=::::=:~~,,,,,,,,,,,,.,,,,,,,,,,,,,,~,,~,,,,~~=~·::=:=~=~:='=~:=:===:=:::=~::==:~;,:,:,,,,,~,,,,,,,::.,::::::~-=·=<·:·::=·=·:·=·=·=·=·=····················· ;-Jov. 1. The basketba11 team is hindered in that it compet~s ~tgainst schools which begm ~e~sions on Oct. 15th .. There is no iegitimate reason for this arbitrary date. RECRUITING By joining the conference, (] nion had to accept a ngorous. !-oet of recruiting directives. Coaches may not visit prospective !-otudents in their homes or otherwise seek private intetviews. Contact can be made only b~ mail, telephone, or at an alumm .or secondary school-sponsored event. \There certainly has been a change of method,\ AllisQn st~!ed in relation to the new recruttmg rules. \Despite the restrictions I think we can make it work. We are getting better alumni support,\ he added. Allison pointed to the f~ct.that this year's freshmen basketball. candidates are exceptional and were recruited under the new rules. \The face-to-face meeting with the prospective athlete and the alumni are very important,\ Allison said. Several arguments have been waged against this method of obtaining athletes. Rather than the coach conducting his pitch in the open, the approach is .now covert in nature and seemmgly directly the opposite of the philosophy of the rest of the regulations. Schools such as Williams have much better alumni organizations, thus t~ey have an advantage. Also, Umon ~till schedules many schools who ;lperate under much more lenient NCAA guidelines and must compete with these institutions for the student-athlete. CONCLUSIONS Despite the fact that the athletic directors of the participating coileges recommended the name of the conference be the Colonial Small College Athletic Conferenc~, they were overruled by the presidents. Schenectady, New York is not in New England. It is an affront to Union College's dignity to accept that title. The AD's also requested that po~t-season competition be left ~p to the individual school. Agam their advice was ignored. Although the general concepts of the agreement are acceptable, the restriction and intramural outlook of the complying presidents is illogical. The integrity of the schools involved does no1 have to be lJUestioned. Union and its counterparts are not t~e institutions of this country m need of extreme supervision. Academicians have limited background in the formulation of athletic policy. This task shoul.d he returned to the athletiC directors and their staffs. King of Su~s COLLEGE SPECIAL SPICED HAM SUB 99¢ WITH UNION I.D. 102 JAY ST. and Corner o( State & Erie ll a:m.-12 p.m. MON.-SAT. 4 p.m.-12 p.m. SUNDAY \ )1 Split Three commented Allison. Continued from Page 3 . that the present calendar ts advantiigeou;t; to .Union ~tudtmts if an employer ~~ lookmg for ~ummer help who must be able to work until Sept. 15). The President also mentioned that \~tudents and faculty start to slip If the new calendar is adopted, Dean Lichterman would attempt to institute a policy whereby tests could not be given during the ~rs~ week after Christmal! vac~ItJOn. He predicted little _faculty opposition to such a policy . .,. . , Martin: President Harold C. Martin favors switching to the Split-HI. He cited severa.J advanta~es in the propo~ed new calendar. One was that It would enable Union to \start and finish ~eq.uence. with other colleges without .giving up the three~~er~ ~vt-.tem.\ Another was that It ~ould enable a student to start a ~ummer job by June I, som.etimes considered the starting pmnt for !-<Urumer jobs by employeFs. (However, Ma.rtin ·p.ointed out ·in June.\ Under the Split-Ill, . ~p_ring term exams would be concluded •by June I.. . .. Martin sees potential har.m tf the Christmas break in the Split- II 1 were to be more than two weeks long. He fears a \loss ~f momentum'' if the winter term 1s broken py any vacation longer t•han. two weeks. Interviews were co~ducted by Usa Barron, David Dale, Nancy Mu~pby, Paul Lazor, Laureen w eilb .. rg, Elaine Paolucci, Steve Klak and Curt Brown. Future Ca:reers FEDERA.L CIVIL SERVICE ENTRANCE EXAM On Friday, Noveltlber 9, from 2:00 until5:00 in room SSOI2, the Federal Civil Service ·Entrance -Exam will be offered to studen.ts on a walk-in basis. Fifty federal agencies hire only from the list of those who have taken and passed this test. so it ~s well worth the hour or so that It takes. One need not be a senior, or even interested in an· immediate job with the government to take th~ exam, but it may even pay off m terms of future job opportunities. Take advantage of the convenience of having tiJ.e exam given right on campus! * * * * FEDERAL GOVERNMENT CAREER. DAY Jf you're interested in someday working fot: the federal government but you ge·.t headaches-when you try to decide how when and where to do it, then' you should make it a point If your answer to any or all of these questions is ye~, then ~ou !>hould be interested m attendmg a seminar sponsored by the Placement Office. It is designed to answer the very questions you may he asking. VVe are very proud to be bringing to the campus two women who have been successful in the. realms of writing and publishing. They are Cla~re Ly?ch O'Brien, a senior managmg editor with Random House, and Gay Negel, a travel writer with East- West Publications. The seminar will be held in Hale House Lounge on Thursday, November 8, from 7:30 Until 9:30 with a reception to follow. Neither of these fields does any recruiti~g, and each year hundreds try to enter them but fail. Find out how these women made it, and find out how you can try. . f STAR LIQUOR .. ~ to drop i·nto Strauss Lounge. \ College Center, on Friday, November 9 between 10:00 a._m. . and 1:30 p.m. AND WINE DISCO.UN.T CENTER \Lowest Legal Prices\ Here under the auspices of the Placem~nt Office, there will be ~ representatives of many differ~nt ·-~~ government services and agencies ready to give straight answer~ to vour questions. This is not JUSt ~eeruitment for Seniors! The Career Day is specifically designed to help the confused ~tudent find out what opportunities are available . fo.r him with the federal government. \'Free Delivery\ j Tel. 374-9285 it 1141 STAT.E ST. i~.,.~A If you don't know what your options are in government work, 11top in and find out. * * * * THINKING ABOUT PUBLISHING? Are you thinking about publishing as a career? . Does magazine work interest you? Are vou confused abou.t how to ~'break into\ the closed world of professional writing and editing? ~~-- ~.......__ JAKE -LIPSTEIN'S LIQuORS Tel.374-1888 Mon.-Sat. 9 a.m.-9 p;m. 464 State St. YO·UR UNION I.D. CARD IS WOR-TH 10% MORE AT THE COMPL.ETE RECO.KD\& TAPE' STORE * * * * * c APEX MUSIC KORNER * * * * * CORNER oF· STATE & BROADWAY \ - rea arg an< ''th Att bee Th Ge sin' the De pol l pre Ge ass wil aut we w~ unc Pn tha wo in De upc sig1 Pre is pai ch~ ,, Th ta1 Fa of ob,J Fa sic m.t WE ria W1 I l 1 Wi 1 ] (

CONCORDIENS!S, Friday, November 2. 1973 Maraliz.er Needed ' . . .- ' . ;'· - .. l • Tfte film, ''The Selling of .the Pentagon\ will be presented by the Political Forum on Tuesday; November 6th at 4:30p.m. i.n S.S. 0-16. A brief meeting will follow the presentation. All are we!C'ortJed. Contin1.1ed ffom Page 2 reasons why Professor Tidma.rch argues such a move is less radical and thus .more practical, is that \the pn;cedent of ~Jection of the Attorney··General has already been established in the states.\ The election of the Attorney• General would be Jeffective as well since .it would serve to circumvent the President's use of the Department of Justice as a political weapon. The proposals· of a permanent prosecutor and elected Attorney- General are both based oo the assumption that n:ten in power will on occasion abuse their authority. Perhaps the best wa,y we can right the wrongs of Watergate is by electing men .of unquestionable integrity to office. Professor Tidmarch estimated that at least 50 Republicans would lose their seats in Congress in 1974, This would mean that the Democratic primaries in the upcoming year will be especially significant attd it also mea~s, as Professor Tidmarch .stated,, .. this is an ideal time for politi®l participation.\ We can effect change by supporting and electing ''humane, moral individuals\ to Congress, which has proven to be ''an effective counter .. balance to the Executive.\ Tile only way we can be assured that the De.rhocrats will not nominate second'-rate candidates is by our involvement in the primary fights of the upcoming year. Those of us who are committed to the welfare of this c<n.mtry should. take this to heart and not just sit back when .Congressional elections commence in the upcoming year. Nor should we stop after the elections l!ince corruption takes place after the attainment of a pesition. The lesson of Watergate is not that all politicians are bad but that we have not scrutinized our elected officials . carefully enough. * * * * 'Attention Big . Brothers and Siste.-s: A Halloween Picnic-Party has bt;en planned for Sunday afternoon, Nevember 4. The action will start at J p.in. in Jac.kson~s Gardens (inclement weather location - Old Chapel). All involved in the program are urged to come! IN ~·~ ... ,; ... IN INTERESTED IN INTERESTED IN * * * * Tile International Relations Club of Union College will hold an organizational meeting on Monday evening, November 5, at 7:30 p.m. in Strauss Lounge (Student Center). Any and all interested students are invited to attend. Emphasis will be placed upon up,eoming activ,ities and participation by those interested will he greatly appreciated. For further information, please contact Tom Burbank at 346~9582 ·(Sigma Chi); * * * * Sunday, Nov. 4, SUNYA Gym at 9:00 p.m.: Earl Scruggs Revue, David Bromberg. and Jesse Colin You11g .. $3.50 general admission ... presented by State Univ. Concert Board. * * * * Any()ne interested in competing in Indoor Track, please contact Coach\ Michaelson, Alumni Gym. l'vlales and Females are eligible. * * * •* The next session of the Stud~nt-Faculty Bridge Club will be held on Tuesday, November 9 • POTENTIAL? INTERESTED IN . ·POTENTIAL? INTERESTED IN GROWlH POTENTIAL? INTERESTED IN GROWTII: POTflliAL? INTERESTED IN GROWTH POTENTIAL? ·INTERESTED IN GROWTH POTENTIAL? B·LlTHER 4 - • •• • .. • * * * * On Wednesday, November 7, at 4:30 in S.S. 115 there will be an informational meeting for all ~tudents interested in the possibility of enrolling in the Comprehensive Education project course, .. The State Legislature in Action.\ The course includes an internship in the New York State Legislature for each student. Enrollment is limited to about 18 !otudents, no more than four of whom may be Political Science majors. The meeting will cover topics such as criteria for admission to the course, course format and requirements, and internship arrangements. * * * * The Ford Foundation and the INTERESTED IN GROWTH POTENTIAL? Page 7 National Fellowships Fund are offering graduate fellowships to Black Americans, Mexican Americans, Native Americans a.nd Puerto Ricans who intend to pursue a career in higher education. Applicants must be U.S. citizens and they must plan ;to pursue full-time study toward the doctoral degree in Arts or Sciences in preparation for a :career in higher education. If any students have questions abQut these fellowships ~ please visit the Placement Office. The deadline for submitting completed applications and aU supporting documents is January S, 1974. * \' \' * The Mountebanks of Union College in cooperation with the Black Student Alliance of Union will present \No Place To Be Somebody,\ 1969-1970 Pulitzer Prize Winner written by Charles Gordone. . The play will be staged November 9 thru I i, and 14 thru 17. Curtain each night will be 8:00 p.m. at Nott Memorial Theatre. In addition, the nights of November 16 and 17 will be benefit performances to aid the Hamilton Hill Drop-in Arts Center and the Carver Community Health-Care Center, with prpceeds from both nights to be divided equally between these two organizations. Reservations can be made by calling Nott Memorial Theatre box office at 370-6153. For additional information, please call Gregory Freelon at 377-2261 ·ext. 215. * * * * The Physics and Philosophy Departments would like;to .invite interested persons to a seminar on November 9 in N 116, at 2:30 p.m.: \Laws of Physics and Ideas of Time,\ by Professor David Park, Williams College. Professor Park is a graduate of Harvard College, and obtained his Ph.D in physics from the University of Michigan. A widely known theoretical physicist and the author of several books, including Quantum Theory'- (1964 ), Conttmporary Physics ( 1964), and Strong Interactions ( 1966), Professor Park is also ~eriously concerned with the philosophical problems 01 physics. * * * * CLIFFORD BOURST ARCO 80 NOTT TERRACE SCHENECTADY . INTERESTED.·IN GROW'TH ·POTENTIAL? INTERESTED IN ·GROWTH .POTENTIAL? INTERESTED IN GROWTH POTENTIAL? jiSABELLA.'S -~ F & H Pharmacy 517 UNION ST. . Phone 378-llOO Then you.. should consider these interesting and impor- tant facts abmtt Pratt & Whitney Aircraft. Fact 1: H. J. Gray, presidertt and chief executive officer of United Aircraft Corporation, has annoumed an objective to double sales tk1:yyugh the e'K,Idofthe decade. Fact 2: Pratt and Whitney Aircraft is the largest divi- sion of United Aircraft Corporation and accounts for a ma.ior portion oftotnl corporate sales. We expect to share in this growth ... and share mate- rially. Here's how and why. With ..... advanced aircraft engines generating up to electricity for commercial, light-industrial and residential applications. With ..... even more efficient and powerful industrial gas turbines to join the almost 1,000 units already sold tor generating electricity, pumping gas and pro- pelling marine vessels. If you want to prove-out your abilities .at the frontiers of the state-of-the-art, P&WA is a great place for that important personal testing. Further, our projected growth-rate suggests faster-than-usual advancement opportunities for those <!apable of innovative thinking. 60,000 pounds of takeoff thrust that will ensure our continuing world leadership in powering the majority of commercial\ air· transports. With ..... pollution-free fuel cell power plants to help solve the World's energy needs. Experimental units have already amassed over 100,000 hours of operation producing Pratt&· Whitney·· Aircraft We have attractive career opportunities for · engineers and scientists in virtually every technical field. See your College Placement Office for requirements, interview dates and our descriptive brochure. Or write Mr. Len Blacl~ Professional Placement, Pratt & Whit- ney Aircraft, East Hartford, Conn. 06108. An Equal Opportunity Employer . u bovo•,oON O• u N~A•\C OAF t C .OOP Facilities in East H~.l\t:tirwrl . . . . ~ . .. Palm Beach, Florida . ' fSNAPi>Y 1 !MEN'S SHOPI I I I TO UNION MEN: I I I I 5% I I I I Discount With This Ad I I La \Schenectady's I 1 r:gest Men's Store\ 1 1 Hrs. 9:30-5:00 I I Th. 9•9:30 I 1--~!.~!!..E_S!~--' Levrs J>aye•s Meas Shop 453 State St• · . (dawntowa SCMaectady ., '! t· j ,,.1 '

Page8 CONCORDIENSIS, Friday, November 2, 1973 << Hobart Railroads by MARK MINDEL Garnet 37-14 Despite an heroic effort on the part of Joe Urschel, the Union College football team fell to an unbeaten Hobart eleven last Saturday. The Statesmen's powerful running attack, which ground out 461 yards, simply bulldozed the Garnet defense while accoun,t.ing for four touchdowns in the 37-14 win. Hobart hopped to a·n early 14-0 lead after an impressive XH yard march capped by big sophomore Rich Kowalksi's 7 yard TD run. and then only a minute later, a one yard plunge fot the score by fullback .Jerry Hanley after a l inion fumble on the ensuing kickoff. Albany, Williams by ALISON SLOAT On Tuesday, harriers from Williams and Albany State< travelled to Schenectady to contest the Dutchmen in a double dual meet on our own 5\.-4 mile cross country course. Union entered as obvious underdogs to the State team. Albany had already beaten the Middlebury team, who in turn defeated the Dutchmen. In comparison. chances were better for Union against Williams. Later however, as the runners came across the finish line places were sorted and points were distributed leaving the Garnet thinclads defeated in both encounters. Albany State runner Jim Shrader seemed to soar with the wind in the brisk autumn air. Breaking the tape 27:13.4 minutes after the race had begun, Shrader established a new course record: The record was previously held by Delaney of Hamilton with 27:41.8. .. The Statesmen clinched the meet when Reda and CheFibino finished numbers two and three with respective times, 27:35 and 27:36, both faster than the old Take Meet record. Fourth and seventh places were taken by Burns and Woodcock thus totaling Albany's 17 points. Steve Jones was the first Dutchman to come home turning in a 28:02 time for fifth against SUNY A. A distance behind .Jonesey but good for sixth, came Bill Galarneau clocked in 28:13. Stan Wiskoski, Mark Mindel and Paul Spence rounded out the Union score, totaling 43, with their 9th, lith, and 12th place finishes. In battling the Ephmen of Williams the Garnet spikers fared better but were still overwhelmed. McGarr, of Williams, turqed in a 27:40 clocking to take the first place honors followed by teammate Potter with 27:42 for ~econd. The times turned in by the Dutchmen increased in value as .Iones and Galarneau took places three and four with their times, 2X:02 and 28:13, respectively. Likewise, Stan Wiskoski's position was bettered by one, ~etting him eighth. Williams totaled 21 points for th~ win as Union settled with 38 and the loss. LUIGI'S Italian Restaurant BARRETT ST. 016-9744 783 ALBANY ST. We Deliver Until Midnight- Call374-5600 I hen Urschel, hi~ back to the wall as it would be aU afternt)()n, went to the task of playing ca:tch- up football. Joe · hit Ronnie Westbrook on a spine-tingling 76 yeard pass and run touchdown· . play early in the second ttuarter. Photo I he ~cor~ marked Ron's first of the season, and who would have helieved that before the season. Lou Miller added the extra point and Union trailed 14-7, but would never get closer. Hobart pumpkin brought down last Saturday. In fact, five plays after Miller's kickoff, Hobart had ground out another impressive sco-re. KowaJski and Hanley accounted for 50 ya·rds of tne drive or\ two plays alone and the awesome ~ophomore trounced in the final five, for six. and aftef the extra point it was Hobart 21, Union 7. The score remained the same at the half when Union fumbled its chance for a closing score on the Hobart five, with less than a minute left. Frosh Soccer End Seaso,n · Hobart went right to work in the second half, grinding out the clock while grounding out the yards. Their initial drive of the half was halted at the Union one yard line. but Union fumbled in the end zone and only a Westbrook recovery saved another touchdown; the safety however, put Union more than two touchdowns down, and for practical purposes, out. Hobart· iced the contest eight plays later when big 44 plowed through Union's line unharmed for a five yard score, and a 30-7 Hobart lead. Jim Collin and Hanley traded touchdown runs in · the final period to finish out the :-.coring, although neither team ever gave up trying to score. Hobart wanted to run up a big one for the Lambert Bowl ratings, and Urschel kept firing away for another TD bomb. Kowalski finished the day with an impressive and well-earned 275 yards on 43 carries, while Hanley ran 26 times for 193 yards. Union, 1-4, plays Williams away this weekend. by GARY FEDER I he Union freshmen soccer team was unable to duplicate last year's squad's undefeated mark, hut did finish its 197 3. season with a fine .3·3-J record, winning three of it~ last six games. After losing to Williams and tying Oneonta early in tile season, the Dutchmen went on to record wim over Siena, RP1, and Albany State. by socres of 3-1 •. J-2, and 2- 1. respectiVely. Union lost its other contest against Albany State. 3-1, and fell to Middlebury. 4-1. ·~ Coach Bill Scanlon sa.id he could not really label the season ~uccessful or unsuccessful because ''with a freshmen soccer squad, yQu never really know just how good you are until you play other teams.\ He added that the main purpose of the freshmen system is to help build the varsity team. and that if same freshmen players do that, then the year is !>UCcessful. Coach. Scanlon felt that while the team might not. have played tfp to par offensively. defensively they peliormed better than expected. He praised his two goalies. Joe Friedman and .Jim Felix. who shared the netminding. adding that either one would make a fine varsity goalie. Coach Scanlon felt two thirJgs probably hurt the team practice cQnditions and scheduling of late cla~~es. He said ·that due to late classes, some of the players \\e.ren't able to get to pra_ctice l!ntil 4:30 or 5:00, and could practice for only an hour or so . 1\~ to .practice conditions, both the freshmen and the varsity ;.quad had to share the same field. Coach Scanlon added that the players showed patience and understanding in regard to this ~ituation. According to Coach Scanlon. Williams was the Dutchmen's toughest oppone.nt. calling it the ·he~t team he's faced as freshmen l'oach. He added that most of the team~ Union faced were better than last year. When asked to single out an out~tanding player or players, Coach Scanlon said that he really couldn't. He felt all the members of the squad played well throughout the season. Levrs Dave's Mens Shop 453 State St. · (downtown Schenectady) ~~Both in music and visih\e hea~ty the r.•cture IS a continuing del'ightZ' -ARCHER W/NSTEN. NV. Post ~~Impossibly beautiful to the eye. Visually exquisite:' ~:A special film for special audiences, for devotees of Hesse's novels., for admirers of the exotic, and for everyone who wants to he adventurous -BERNARD DREW, Gannett News Service ~~ visl!-a}ly exqu1s1te film ... an unusual and welcome experience.\ -WILI:IAM WOLF, Ciie in film going.\ -GENE SHALIT, WNBC·TV COLUt.!BIA PICTU.RES PRESENTS A FILM. BY CONRAD ROOKS· HERMANN HESSE S SIIIDHAJl1HA • STARRING SHASHI·KAPOOR • SIMI GARE WAL PRODUCED biRECTED AND WRITTEN FOR THE SCREEN BY CONRAD ROOKS • PHOTOGRAPHED BV SVEN NYKVIST -~-.v<S•o•• . !~!.!~~!~(.~_] STARTS TO·DAY' AT THESE 2 THEATRES CINE 1·2·3-4 NORTHWAY MALL CO.QNIE DEL,A WARE THEATRE 290 DELAWARE AVE. ALBANY Bi Th:o toe ·c and I Athlet meetii additi· •.The 1 Tuesd A was f1 the lo Co1Ie1 of tht the com11 yester ·Thl first stu de their Ke dechd that meml we lee So consi athle Astn and: Re prop been IS t COUfl roon r lc I

Page8 CONCORDTENSIS, Friday, November 2, 1973 .. ,Hobart Railroads by MARK MINDEL De>pite an heroic effort on the part of Joe U n;chel, the Union College football team fell to an unbeaten Hobart eleven last Saturday. The Statesmen's powerful running .attack, which ground out 461 yards, simply bulldozed the Garnet defense while accounting for .four touchdowns in the 37-14 win. Hobart hopped to an early 14-0 lead after an impressive 118 yard march ca.pped by big sophomore Rich Kowalksi's 7 yard TD run, and then only a minute later, a one yard plunge for the score by fullback Jerry Hanley after a l Inion fumble on the ensuing kickoff. Albany, Williams l>y AU SON SLOAT On Tuesday, harriers from William:> and Albany State travelled to Schenectady to contest the Dutchmen in a double dual meet on our own 5% mile cross country course. Union entered as obv·ious underdogs to the State team. Albany had already beaten the Middlebury team, who in turn defeated the Dutchmen. In comparison, chances were better for Union against Williams. Later however, a~ the runners came across the finish :line places were sorted and points were distributed leaving the Garnet thinclads defeated in both encounters. Albany State runner Jim Shrader seemed to soar with the wind in the brisk autumn air. Breaking the tape 27:13.4 minutes after the race had begun, Shrader established a new course record: The reco.rd was previously held by Delaney of Hamilton with 27:41.8. .. The Statesmen clinched the meet when Reda and Cheribino finished numbers two and three with respective times, 27:35 and 27:36, b<>th faster than the old Take Meet record. Fourth and seventh places were taken by Burns and Woodcock thus totaling Albany's I 7 points. Steve Jones was the first Dutchman to come home turning in a 2H:02 time for fifth against SUNY A. A distance behind .lonesey but good for sixth, came Bill Galarneau clocked in 28:13. Stan Wiskoski, Mark Mindel and Paul Spence rounded out the Union score, totaling 43, with their 9th, II th, and 12th place finishes. In battling the Ephmen of Williams the Garnet spikers fared better but were still overwhelmed. McGarr, of Williams, turned in a 27:40 clocking to take the first place honors followed by teammate Potter with 27:42 for ~econd. The times turned in by the Dutchmen increased in value as Jones and Galarneau took places three and four with their times, 28:02 and 28:13, respectively. Likewise, Stan Wiskoski's position was bettered by one, loetting him eighth. Williams totaled 2 I points for the win as Union settled with 38 and the loss. LUIGI'S Italian Restaurant BARRETT ST. 016-9744 183 ALBANY ST. We Deliver Until Midnight- Call374-5600 I hen Urschel, hilo back to the wall as it would he aH afternoon, went to the task of playing catch- liP football. Joe hit Ronnie Westbrook on a spine-tingling 76 yeard pass a.nd nm touchdown · play early in the second qu11rter. I he :.core marked Ron's first of the season, and who would have helieved that before the season. l.ou Miller added the extra point and Union trailed 14-7, but would never get closer. by Leslie Steineker Hobart pumpkin brought down last Saturday. In fact, five plays after Miller's kickoff, Hobart had ground out another impressive score. Kowalski and Hanley accounted for 50 yards of the drive on two plays alone and the awesome ~ophomore trounced in the final five, for six, and after the extra point it was Hobart 2 I, Union 7. rhe score remained the same at the half when Union fumbled its chance for a closing score on the Hobart five, with less than a minute left. Frosh .Soccer E·nd Season Hobart went right to work in the second half, grinding out the clock while grounding out the yards. Their initial drive of the half was halted at the Union one yard line, but Union fumbled in the end zone and only a Westbrook recovery saved another touchdown; the safety however, put Union more than two touchdowns down, and for practical .purposes, out. Hobart iced the contest eight plays later when big 44 plowed through Union's line unharmed for a five yard score, and a 30-7 Hobaft lead. Jim Collin and Hanley traded touchdown runs in· the final period to finish out the ~coring, although neither team ever gave up trying to sc6re. Hobart wanted to run up a big one for the Lambert Bowl ratings, and Urschel kept firing away for another TD bomb. Kowalski finished the day with an impressive and well-earned 275 yards on 43 carries, while Hanley ran 26 times for 19.3 yards. Union, 1-4, plays Williams away this weekend. by GARY FEDER I he Union freshmen soccer team was unable to duplicate last year\ squad's undefeated mark, hut did finish its 1973 season with a fine 3-3-1 record, winning three of it~ last six games. After losing to Williams and tying Oneonta early in the season, the Dutchmen went on to record wim over Siena, RP,I, and Albany State. by socres of J-1. 3-2, and 2- 1, respectively. Union lost its other contest against Albany State, 3-1, and fell to Middlebury, 4-l. - Coach Bill Scanlon said he could not really label the season ~u~:cessful or unsuccessful because \with a freshmen soccer squad, you never really know just how good you are until you play other teams.\ He added that the main purpose of the freshmen system is to help build the varsity team, and that if some freshmen players do that, then the year is ~uccessful. Coach Scanlon felt that while the team might not. have played up to par offensively, defensively they performed better than expected. He praised his two goalies, Joe Friedman and Jim Felix, who shared the netminding, adding that either one would make a fine varsity goalie. Coach Scanlon felt two thirms probably hurt t-he team practice conditions and scheduling of late da~~es. He said that due to late classes, some of the players \\eten't able to get to pra.ctice Until 4:30 or 5:00, and could practice for only an hour or so . !\~ to practice conditions, both the freshmen and the varsity ~quad had to share the same field. Coach Scanlon added that the players showed patience and understanding in regard to this ~ituation. According to Coach Scanlon, Williams was the Dutchmen's toughest opponent, calling it the he!>t team .he's faced as freshmen coach. He added that most of the team~ Union faced were better than last year. When asked to single out an out~tanding player or players, Coach Scanlon said that he really couldn't. He felt all the members of the squad played well throughout the season. tevrs Dave's Mens Shop 453 State St. (downtown Schenectady) l'~Both in music and visible beauty the eicture is a continuing delight~' -ARCHER WINSTEN. N.Y. Post l'('lm possibly beautiful to the eye. Visually exquisite:' ~~ SP.ecial filn1 for special audiences, for devotees of Hesse's.novels,for admirers of the exotic, and for everyone who wants to be adventurous in film going.'' -GENE SHAL/T, WNBC·TV -BERNARD DREW. Gannett News SeTVice l'~ visually exquisite film .•. an unusual and welcome experience.\ -WILLIAM WOLF. Cue COLUM!liA PICTURES PRESENTS A fiLM BY CONRAD ROOKS· HfRMANN HESSE S IIDDHAfiTHA • STARRING SHASHI KAPOOR • SIMI GAR~WAL PRODUCED DIRECTED AND WRITTEN FOR THE SCREEN BY CONRAD ROOKS. PHOTOGRI<PHED BY SVEN NYKYIST PANMnsoo•• [!tj_ !~~~-~~~~.-~] STARTS TODAY. AT THESE 2 THEATRES CINE 1-2-3-4 NORTHWAY MALL COLONIE DELAwARE THEATRE 290 DELAWARE AVE. ALBANY Th~ the C and 1 Athle1 meetil additi ,'fhe 1 Tuesd A wasf, the lo Colle: of th• the comr yeste1 Th first stude their Ke deds: that mem welc< So cons1 athle Astrt and Rt prop been 15 I cour roon

ConcordY. PoU A,nnounced: Reaction to Grading Switch; .... t'' Governance Change Proposed . , Btg· Brothers aniiSistets pi~nic on Sunday, November 4 in Old Ch4tjl, provjdedfunjor kids of all ages. '• Photo b~ Bill Eriebson .u. ·-=- .- V Q}. lCJ3, No~ 7 . FT:icby, November 9, 1973 The reaction to the restmcturing of the grading system has been intense ewer the past we~k and shows few signs of decre\ising in intensity. Last week's Concotdi(msis contained a· page on~ article detailing the workings of this. new grading system and a~ editorial calling for review of the process that led to the implementation of immediate consideration and this system. The following events alteration. have transpired during the last PROPOSAL: week, and shed some light on the A. An;y motion by th~ Steering steps being taken towards Committee President to allow reconsideration of the grading time for ~xpression of student change: · opinion by the · tabling CJf a Fir,it: Larry Brown, Pn;sident motion is automatically approved of the Steering Committee, has unless l/3 of tbe All-College scheduled talks with each Senate overrides that decision. dormitory floor on campus B. All student llhision during ·the next Week. These talks representatives are req~airecl to will concentrate on the proposed can ail open meeting with thllir' calendar change b~t will also, constituents, before ea~;h All· .according to Brown, give students College Senate meeting to discuss a chance to voice their opinions the content of each iten ~.11 the on the matter. agenda; Secon;d: Brown a·nd C. The Steering C«»inmlttee JOck Rooms Rap Concordiensis have co~sponsored President shal~ go to the Steering a proposal that will be submitted CoiJlmittee before . eac:ll All· to the appropriate committees College Senate :Meeting. If a aimed at somehow revitdizing the majority of the Steering · goveman<:e structure. It is Committee representatives move p~sented here in crude form, to ~nd to the student bcl43' any subject to revision prior to item on the 'agenda,· campus submission to committee and questionnaires will be distributed. _ . : : . ~6y ~ll6N 'l<:RONE senate. PlJRPQS~: Third: Concordiensis will carry Th:omas Kershner;· chairnian :of: : ,fac!lity~· :discussion has tollChed on already begun practice on the rtew To give students the same out a poll during the next 'Week. the ·~oJlegi!. Athletic Committee,: - sqbj~~ts rat)ging . .from a small ice artificial floor - and will be opportunity . as faculty and This poll will be based on a and: -Bruce: Allison,· Directof ;of. ·pond· to a full .. size Indoor hockey completely ready in January. administration to , consult w\th sampling of Union stiKients' Athletics, have ~alled a campus: ·rink. The trustees have also their eleded repreSentatives ~n opinions on the new grading meeting to • ui~cuss poss~ble \We want to reach the needs of authorized the addition of · · system. We plan to draw up the additions to.the athletic facilities. men 'and women,\ said Kershner tempor'l;lry lockers at the issues that directly effect each '· questionnaire for this poll over '·The meeting will be in SSOl 6 in relation to the .. goals of the Fieldhouse. The women's locker student. the weekend and distribute it to Tuesday, N<?v. '13'at .7:30p.m. . comtn:ittee. room (the. former basketball RATIONALE: ·RA's for distribution to :their A: trustees ad~ hoc· committee . ••w.e recognize real land facility) has been completed .and The grading proposal pointed to a floor and. subsequent collection was formed last June to look into limitations.\' The Athletic: another 150 men's lockers will be defieieney in. the Governan~e on Tuesday, November 13, 1!)73. the long term athletic needs of the Committee is exploring ways to added shortly. St~uc~~re whJch we feel ..-ents College ... We wanfto. ~h~pie: sqm~ · hr.ipg:the .c;iir:ling Ce;ntetdntP\f · · . . of the pt'¢'limil1ary suggestimis of tCli·h·ea,·r:mEacnonaodmd .. eidc.s Department 'S·. '· .. om· :·. ·e· b·.: .. · .o··d·. ·. y ' the comm~tiee' ·.with. _the community/-' . '&er-sh·rief. .said~ · .[{~r.stmer.,· ~a'nd. A'llil!en ate. · · · · · · ' . · · · · Comes· to Union ~ yesterday. · · . attem]lting to open a dudogue in ·· ·· . · The open meeting wHl be the s.earell of student and faeulty by, KATHY GEMMELL the whites, thinly veiled by' a first of several · cha:pces· for id¢its. \We )Vailt to estimate. the No Plat:e to. be so.n~bqdy, a professed interest in the need for students ' and , faculty· te express . ne~d~ . and then · es~i'tnat~- the . \Black•black-comedy\iby-Ch~tles · .p.olitica.t....-activ1sm. In -·fact; their opinions. . pnonttes for meehng those Gordone, is to be performed by Johnny's small~time operation, ends up losing as a result. of a crooked judge, .police cnrruption, . and just. plain bad luck. Kershner stressed that no needs,\ said Kershner. the Black Student Alliance and Which consists largely ·of pimping, decisions ·have. been made and It i~ expect~d that the a:d .. ho<:: the . Mountebanks starting js-being seriously curbed by the that input from any interested comm1ttee wdl soon make a · November 9th. It is a melodrama Mafia. He keeps going by member· of the campus is ·· report to the Board of Trustees in bar talk. · dJ;eaming of the day when Sweets welcome. -on tl:t.e ne~ds of. the campus. The Thi& Pulitzer Prize winning Crane, an old gangster and father Some of the things being trustees wtll have to. accept the play, directed by former Union figure to him, Will be released considered include a new indnor report before fund-raising to student Greg Freelon has from prison so that together they athletic buildjng, ·an ice facility, finance the improvement b~gins. s 0 met hi n g g.e nu in e and can make it in the big time. But Astro-Turf for the f-ootball field, Kersl:tner reported .that the worthwhile to say, aside from SWeets (Kris Upshur), comes and an outdoor track. trustees have .approved two being a great piece of home with his health and spirit Recommendations for the platform tennis courts for entertainment. It is a play of broken. Johnny .perseveres, trying proposed athletic building have outdoor use. These are to he opposites forced to interact _ to take on the Mafia alone, and been a new pool, a gymnasium; ready for the start of winter term. black and white, love and hate IS to 18 squash ·~hd handball Memorial Fieldhouse will be f~ce and mask. The actors grab courts, and gymnastic and weight open for limited l)se in a few days one's attention and hold it. Their rooms. Concerning the ice - the basketball team has work sh_ows a great· deal of care and undetstanl:ling for the play. :i:~[~~m\~j~~[@![t~jll~fjjjj[li[!~j~j[jjj[~j[fijiH!jl!l~j){!mi~~W@!!~\f Gabe Gabriel, played by Greg :;:~ Freelon, is the lead character. Elections Gabriel is a writer and an actor . . . He is a man so nearly white that. he .ca:':lno~ get a role as a black in any play he auditions for .. Gabe, as construed by Mr. Gordone, contains in him the whole world of race relations. He imagines th~m as coming together for a stand-off ip a Village bar. Gabe can drop into the bar or make it disappear as he chooses. In his soliloquies the whole world is only himself. He remembers his attem.pt to move into a \clean · . white\ neigh,borhood, only to be · thought of as a \dirty black.;' The bar, Johnny's Bar, has : black and white whores competing with each other, and : yet essentially caring deeply for If Johnny is teying to make himself a bad white man to get what he wants, Shanty is trying to· become a talented black. Their failures hit hardest when J()l!nny's white whore, realizing tnat he doesn't want her an.y more, smears black grease on her face. No Place to be SomeblKiy is a play that shouldn't be missed by anyone. It will run from N~>v. 9th- 11th and Nov.- l4-l7tn. Curtain time is 8:00 p.m. at Nott Memorial Theater.' .:Elections for Editor of J)e fcund j)_l 'Room 406, South Cc>ncordiensis will be held ·college. ·u- a candidate cannot next Thur~day night from find the ·editor he may · leave seven o\clock until ten o'clock his statement, consisting p.m. Any member of the silnply of· his name and the student body is eligible for the · •facl: :that ·he intends to run, position, but only staff iritli\ · Mrs. Marra, in the members of Concordiensis· :.·Student AcUvitits Office. · one another. Black Johnny, (Bernard Carey) is loved by white Dee (Karen Bernhard), and white Shanty (Tom D; Aloisio} is loved by black Cora (Virginia Lyle). Shanty boasts that he is \black that he plays drums with black \No Place to be Sombody\ as directed by form~r Union student Greg Free/on, is being presented November 9-ll and November 14-17 at 8:00 P.M. dt rnay vote. Staffers can vote An individual may consider only b.etween the houri!. of ' ·nimself/herself a member of sevena.nd ten next Thursda:yl - the Concordiensis staff if he. in. the offices on the third · or she. has either written an floorofthe Student Center. article, conducted ail All candidates, for· office·· interview, or worked on must hand in tbe~ stat.en'lent\'\'\ layout during the fall term of of intent to run to ,the Editor- 1973. . · in·Chief ·no later than Any questions should be midnight on Tuesday, directed to the EditO-r-in-chief No'Ventber 13. The editor can ·at 370-6126. ' soul. Cora, trusting and loving, buys. him the drums, unaware that she is c·onfronting him with a challenge to make good his words. He starts playing, . loses himself, and finishes in a flush of glory. He doesn't realize that he has exposed his non-talent to his betters. Johnny is irt the rackets. Hh motive is personal revenge agains. the Nott Memorial Theatre. NOTE: t:oncordiensis is only running 4 pages this issue because Perspective was unable to publish this week, · Photo by Scott Gord~D and we were not nO'ti!ied in • time. We will resullle the 8 · page format next week as usual.

Concordy .Poll Announced: Reaction to Grading Sw.itch; •• r Governance Change Proposed The reaction to the restructuring of the grading system h&s been intense Qver the past we~k and shows few signs of decreasing in intensity. . Big Brothers anif.'Sisters pi~nic on Sunday; N~vember 4 in Old Chc;p~l) providedfunfor kids of all ages. Last week's Concordiensis contained a· page ane artide detailing the workings. of this new grading system and an editorial calling for review of the process that led to the implementation of this system. The following events have transpired during the last week, and shed some light on the steps being taken towards reconsideration of the grading change: Fir!it: Larry Brown, President of the Steering Committee, has scheduled talks with each dormitory floor on campus •. Photo by, BiU Erichson during the next week. These talks will concentrate o'n the .proposed calendar change but will also, according to Brown, give students a chance to voice their opinions 1r$. f~ 111 Unton·Oillqt in JB~ .It Please Recycle- 1'~\~~ 1 ii .. - .. ... . ·-- ... . . . ~\~ on the matter. Sec~nd: Brown and Concordiensis have co-sponsored a proposal that will he submitted to the appropriate committees aimed at somehow revitalizing the governance structure. It is presented here in crude form, subject to revision prior to submission to committee and h. VQI. 1D3, No.. 7 ' Friday, November 9, 1973 ZOcents ·=:~ ::« . ... .. . .,. Jock Rooms Rap - . Th:otna$ K.eJishn'et,- chahnian :of the CoJieg~ Athletic Coinmittee,- and Bruce Allison, Director of .Athletics, hive called a campus- meeting to discuss possible additions to. the athletic facilities. 'The meeting will be in SS016 Tuesday, N~v. 13 at _7:30 p.m. . senate. 1 liy DON \J{Q.ONE PURPOSE: ,facility; ·discussion has touched on already begun practice on the new To give students the same ·subjects ranging from a small ice a;rtificial floor ~ and will be opportunity as faculty and pond to a full-siZe indoor hockey completely ready in January. administration to, consult with rink. The trustees have also their elected representatives on \We want to reach the needs of authorized the addition of issues that directly effect each men 'and women,\ said Kershner temporary lockers at the student. in relat-ion to .the . goals of the Fieldhouse. The women's locker RA 'JIONALE: committee. room ~the former basketball . \We recognize real land facility) has been completed and The grading proposal pointed to a limitations.- The Athletic another .150 men's lockers will be deficiency in the Governance Structure which we feel merits Committe~ is exploring ways to added shortly. , immediate consideration alteration. PROPOSAL: and A. Any motion by the Steering Commit!~ President to allow time for expression or student opinion by the · tabling of a motion is aut()matically approved unless 2/3 of the All-College Senate overrides that decision. B. All student division representatives are required to call an open meeting with their· constituents~ before each All- College Senate meeting to discuss the content of eaeb item on the agenda. C. The Steering Committee President shall go to the Steering co.,.mittee before each AU- College Senate Meeting. If a majority of the Steering Committee representatives move to send to the student body any item on the 'agenda, · campus questionnaires will be distributed. Third: Concordiensis will carry out a p.oll during the next week. This poll will be based on a sampling of Union students' opinions on the new grading system. We plan to draw up the . questionnaire for this poll over · the weekend and distribute it to ·RA's for distribution to their floor and s1,1bsequent coJlection on Tuesday, November 13, 1973. A trustees ad-hoc committee was formed last June to Io(>k into the long term athletic needs of the College. ••we wanf:to. ~h~re·sqrn~ of the preliminary suggestions of the committee···with. the community.;! \K:~rshn'el'. .said'. bti!lg~the 6ir:ling Ce11te:r int~:vuse,\ · · . . the Economics Department ' s . h. -d· ' Chairman added. ·o·m· e . ·0 .. y · -Kers~ner.,· .and· A'll~s~fl a~e- · · · ' · · . · · · . Comes to Union yesterday. · · The open meeting . will be thl! first of several chi\nces· for students: and f-aculty to express their opinions. Kershner stressed that no decisions have been made and that input from any interested member of tbe campus is welcome. Some of the things being considered include a new indoor athletic building, ali ice facility, Astro-Turf for the football field, and an outdoor track. Recommendations for the proposed athletic building have been a new pool, a gymnasium,- 15 to 18 squash . and handball courts·, and gymnastic and weight rooms. Concerning the ice attemptmg to open a dialogue m · · .. . search of student a\lld faet.dty by KATHY GEMMELL ide~s ... We want to estimate the No Place h~ be Som~bqdy, a needs and then esthnat~- the · ''Black-black-<::omedy\ by-·ebarles . pnonttes for meeting those Gordone, is to be performed by needs,\ said Kershner. the Black Student Alliance and It is expected .that the ad-hoc the Mourite·banks starting committee will soon make a ·November 9th. It is a melodrama :report to the Board of Trustees in bar talk . on the needs of the campus. The Thi& Pulitzer Prize winning trustees will have to accept the play, directed by former Union report before fund-raising to student Greg Freelon has finance the improvement begins. so met h in g genuine art d Kershner reported that the worthwhile to say, aside from trustees have approved two being a great piece of platform tennis courts for entertainment. It is a play of outdoor use. These are to be opposites forced to interact - ready for the start of winter term. black and white, love !ind hate, Memorial Fieldhouse will be f~ce and mask. The actors grab open for limited use in a few days one's attention and hold it. Their the basketball team has work shows a great deal of care and understan<iing for the play. Gabe Gabriel, played by Greg Freelon, is the lead character. Gabriel is a writer and an actor . . He is a man so nearly white that. he ca.nnot get a role as a black in · any play he auditions for. Gabe, Elections as construed by Mr. Gordone, contains in him the whole world of race relations. He imagines them as coming together for a stand-off in a Village bar. Gabe can drop Into the bar or make it disappear as he chooses. In his soliloquies the whole world is only himself. He remembers his attempt to move into a \clean white\ neighborhood, only to be thought of as a \dirty black.\ Elections for Editor of \!>e found in. Room 406, South Conc()rdieitsis will be held College •. If a candidate cannot next thursday night from find the editor he may Jeave seven o'dock until ten o'clock his statement, consisting p.m. Any member of the simply of his name and the studeilt body is eligible for the fact ·that be intends to run, position, but only staff witb· Mrs. Marra, in the members of Concordiensis· ,,. -student A:ctivities Office. may vote. Staffers can vote An individual may consider only between the hc:mrs of himself/herself a membe1: of seven and ten next Thursday, · the Concordiensis staff if he. in the offices on the third or she. has either written an floor of the Student Center. article, conducted an All candidates. for office· interview, or worked on must 'hand in their_ statement- layout during the fall term of of intent to run to the Editor· 1973. in-Chief no later than Any questions should be midnight on Tuesday, directed to the Edito.r-in-chief, November 13. The editor can at 370-6126. The bar, Johnny's Bar, has · ·black and white whores · competing with each other, and yet essentially caring deeply for one another. Black Johnny, (Bernard CareY) is loved by white Dee (Karen Bernhard), and white Shanty (Tom D'Aloisio) is loved by black Cora (Virginia Lyle). Shanty boasts that he is \black that he plays drums with black souL Cora, trusting and loving, buys him the drums, unaware that she is cunfronting him with a challenge to make good his words. He starts playing, loses himself, and finishes irt a flush of glory. He doesn't realize that he has exposed his non-talent to his betters. ::=~:I:n::::\\1i~:mt::imlm\:\I1\\\1~\:::::::\:I\l!\Im@:;:\:::ml[i1:\\~,\1 Johnny is in the rackets. Hif §l · : · motive is personal revenge agains. the whites, thit!ly veiled by' a professed interest in the need for .p.olitical.-activ'ism.. In fact, Johnny's small-time operation, which consists largely of pimping, is being seriously curbed by the Mafia. He keeps going by dreaming of the day when Sweets Crane, an old gangster and father figure to him, will be released from prison so that together they can make it in the big time. But Sweets (Kris Upsbur), comes home with his health and spirit broken. J oltnny perseveres, trying to take on the Mafia alone, and ends up losing as a result of a crooked judge, police corruption, and just plain bad luck. If Johnny is trying to make himself a bad white man to get what he wants, Shanty is trying to become a talented black. Their failures hit hardest when Johnny's white whore, realizing that he doesn't want her any more, smears black grease on her face. No Place to be Somebody is a play that shouldn•t be missed by anyone. It will run from Nov. 9th- 11th and Nov.- l4-l7th. Curtain time is 8:00 p.m. at Nott Memorial Theater.' \No Place to be Sombody\ as directed by former Union student Greg Free/on, is being presented November 9-11 and November 14-17 at 8:00 P.M. at the Nott Memorial Theatre. NOTE: t:oneordiensis is only running 4 pages this issue because Perspective was unable to publish this week, Photo .by Scott Goi'don and we were not notified in· time. We will resume the 8 · page format next week as usual.

Pag~2 COft!CORDlENSIS~ Friday, November 9, 1973 Reco.nsider Grades :.Le·tfers . . _\ ' ' . . ' To Union students a.nd faculty: Whose Workets have gone ou~ on be sure that your planned stri·ke to r·etain -their .scne4ule for .graduati(!.n would representation by UFW.. Gallo .. not. b~ adversely affected. When-a situation arises that ~rouses a body poutic, it behooves the elected representatives of that body to act in a manner that will in some Way demonstrate real concern for. the feelings of their constituents. We stated last week that the · elected student representatives to the All-College Senate erred in their handling of the grading proposals. This was met with ready agreement by several senators, and the issue of governance reform was batted about. Phones rang into the early hours of the morning and meetings were held almost hourly in every conceivable corner of this campus. It was fascinating ... people really seemed to care. In recent weeks there has been some confusion surrounding the struggle of the United Farm Workers, and their boycott of scab grapes and lettuce. As a result a great deal o:f misinformation has been circulated. First of all, the \agreement\ by the Teamsters to cease their interference with UFW ;;tttempts at organizing field worekers has changed very little. In effect, it has only ended the myth of a \conflict between two unions,\ and clarified the true nature of the struggle, that is, one between workers and growers. IncidentalLy, these growers are not your friendly family farmer, but agro-businesses such as Tenneco, Bank America, and Dow Chemical. Ten of these corporations control 2/3 of the California lettuce industry. Seven percent of the farms in California occupy 80 percent of the a~~ble land. To counteract growing support of the UFW boycott, agro-business has been circulating a number of .lies and distortions. wines i!lcJude Boone's ·Firm~· - this junior: year abroad in a Spana,da, Tyrolia, an~;J, illas, German speaking land is both an Ripple, as well as aU wines honor and a pleasant education. bearing a label ffom Modesto, If you need ·.more. German, you California. Fipally, yoti a-r.e urged might pick some lipin Derman or to boycott Price Ch()ppers you· might arrange to live with a aUogether ~ince the;: local l.;-riends Swis:; family for a month before of the Farmworkers groups ate cl~sses .at the E.f.H. begin, or involved in a campaign .to have you, -mght · attend a , Goethe P.rice Choppers carry UFW Institute during the ,summer. produce: · Whatever· the, case, ·llnless ~e 'In addition to the ·above, teceive ·fair applicati<Hi '(Which is people should also investigate . dotre me-rely -- by leaving your What type of produ<;e is purchased name and sche_dule of class hours by SAGA or their fraternity, and with Nancy Sierleja,. Chemistry sheuld demand that only UFW Secretary, Scienc~ Center S 328,) produce be. purchased. Those we sh&\U have no way of knowing interested in helping out in this. of your interest,. We hope· all of type of action should get in tou~h you eligible will ha:ve heard of this with the Social Action Committee , already by personal letter. It is through Amy Titus at 346-9060, easy to leave your name and or can stop by the librazy and talk schedule with us, and yo1,1 may to Dan McNett. Viv!tla Causa! withdraw from this application if This would all, of course, mean absolutely nothing if tangible proposed courses of action did not result from these maneuvers. The important point is that out of all this jockeying for time and ,confused communication there have· emerged several developments that tend to push us towards a position of cautious optimism. Fijst, there has been a proposal drawn up which appears o:n page . one. It appears in its rough form and is subject to modification, yet its aim is clear. Students need time to consult with their representatives and if the only way to assure the realization of this time is to legislate its existence .(we think this to be so), this proposal is the basis for that legislation. We urge its serious consideration. Second, Concordiensis will, during the course of next week, distribute a questionnaire to every student dealing with the grading system. It is aimed at ascertaining accurate student opinion. The grading issue is not dead. We strongly urge all students to complete the poll and return the sheet to their RA's. We ask RA's to drop off the completed questionnaires at the Student Activities Office when they check their folders in the Housing Office: The same will hopefully hold for fraternity presidents. If the students stand firmly opposed to the gl-ading change, this poll will be an accurate measure of this opposition. If we can achieve a significant rate of response it is hoped that some .·clout will accrue at the next Senate meeting. Finally, we strongly urge all students to consider the grading change as it applies to them. We urge all members of the All-College Senate to weigh the sentiment garnered in the poll and, if it runs strongly in opposition to the change, to reconsider the modification of the system. AMR COT\JCORDIEf\SIS ' . '.' \fOunded at Ullicau Collep ~ Ji7'1 -- . m- -. ·: ··z;: z. :· ., .. .z:~.~-- :·~ ' ' • . - .. ).£, Editoi in Chief .~ ...•....... , ........ ~·········~· ... ~ ... : •. :.~ .. AI Reisch Managing Editors ....................................... Rita Morandi · · , · · --Dave Strom News Editor .: .... : ........................................ Geof( ,Taylor Features Editor ......... ~ .............. : ............ Phyllis Edelman Sports Editor ·························~··············· .. ~·~·Bart Mercer Investigative Edjtor .. , .................. 1 .. ~ .............. Don Krone Business Manager ............. ~ ........ ~ ............... Alan Gnessin National AdS .• .: •. , .... _ ........ ~··················· .......... Steve ·Kelly Photography Editors ............. _. ............. ; ...... Bill Erichson · · Les Kernan . Jeff Weilber~ Copy Editor ........................... ~··················· .. PhU Alcabet ~ ,- St:ibSc:*iptioriS ............................. ~.~·~~···'!·~· Mike Bemsteiil S'!'AFF: Celeste Lindsey, Dot.sie Whitney~ Karen Sokoloff, Linda Mack_ey, Steve K~, Ltsa Baron, Fred Allott, Kevin Scoles, Jon Sargent. CONCORDIENSIS is published every Friday during th~ school year-except during examination an~ vacation periods by the student body of Union College, Schenectady, N.Y. National Advertising Representative: National Educational Advertising Service, Inc., NYC. Editorial Office: third floor Carnegie Hall, Union College. Publication Office: The Jewish World Publicilti~ns, 771 State Street, Schenectady, New York, 12~07 (346-2356). Entered m the Schenedady Post Office as Second Class Mail. Matter. Subscription rate: 20 cents per copy, 10 dollars per year delivered anywhere in the United States. Deadline for all copy, which must be TYPED AND DOUBLED SPACED, is 1 p.m. on Thursday at the CONCORDIENSIS office, located on tliird floor Carnegie. FOR ALL EDITORIAL MATTE~S, CALL THE EDITOR-IN-CHIEF AT 370~6126. FOR INFORMATION, CALL MRS. MARRA IN THE STUDENT ACTIVITIES OFFICE AT 370·6118. Letters To the Editor: themselves in their rooms and study all the time. They therefore involve themselves in sports, committees and other formal and inf orma I e xtr a-curricu Jar activities. While all these activities help contribute to the formation of the \well rounded\ individual ·that they were sent to college to become, these activities do take away from actual study time. Union College is a pressure school. When someone warned me of this when I was a~ incoming freshman I just laughed; after all, how much work could three courses a term possibly entail? Many students have come to realize, much to their dismay however, that their courses can and do require quite a bit of time and effort. Since each term is so short, papers and exams seem to be right around the corner. Also, many students don't want to lock Union is also a pre-professional school. This means that a great~ · part of the student body Will be applying to, and hopefully attending, graduate schools. With the goal of furthering their education in mind, many students find themselves competing not only with tim~ to ~ all their , Continue() on Yage 4-- • One of these lies is that migrant workers really aren't so impoverished. The facts are that: ~their average salary, for a (amily of four, is less than $2700/year -their ratio of deaths from infectious diseases and accidents is three to four times that of the national average -the infant mortality rate is 150 .percent higher than the _national average -90 :percent of the housing lacks any indoor plumbing, ,.since Federal housing regulations are not enforced in migrant camps. Perhaps the most blatant of these· distortions is that · the· workers do not really want to be represented by the UFW. The fact is that in the more than 50 elections that the growers. have allowed, the workers chose the UFW to represent them in every case but one. in which the labor contractor illegally intimidated Filipino workers ('~If Chavez wins you will all be fired and replaced by Mexicans.\) There .are several ways people from Union can support the UFW. The most fundamental is by not buying scab grapes and lettuce. As of this time all non- local grapes are scab and should be boycotted. UFW lettuce can be recognized by the Aztec eagle printed on the label, and has been available sporadically at Gr.and Union and Pantry Pride. The boycott now includes Gallo wines, George's !Music Store'·._-: 508 State St. Sch~nectady Tel. 374-5921 College Discount Jay O'Brien you wish --.but we must have the To the Editor: For tho.se Dean's List sophomores or five~yeat degree junior:s who have some Germari language ability a·nd who are science or engineering majors, we wish to call your attention to the :E.t.H. Scholar Search in November. If you are interested in this honor, :consult the Union College catalogue, visit the Studies Abroad Center on the second floor of the . Humanities Building, talk with our Swiss Scholar now at Union (Sigtpund · Eggenberger), or with our Union Scholars of last year - .Chris Kelley and Paul Atcheson. Talk it over with your advi~ors, too, to ~ ~ JAKE - ·LIPSTEIN'S . ·LIQuORS Tel.374-I- Mon.-&t. 9 a.m.-9 p.m. . ' 464·· State St. ~ontown Schenectady, ~~n:: .... ~~~- . mama § Bianchi's § \Banquet Facilities! Available Free to § College Groups\ 1135 Barrett names of those interested by November 24. We will then schedule interviews ·with the selection committee for the following -week, and hopefully submit our recortunendation to the E.T.H. in Zurich, Switzer.land well before Christmas. Cordially yours, William B. Martin Studies Abroad Committee JVST OFF CAMPUS APTS. 1 & 2 Bedroom Includes: Rang~, Ref;, Heat Fro~t.~l~O mtly. Jim. 372-8574 r ... --.'\'\'!'_.__,._...., ____ ; 1 SNAPPY I •.. . I IMEN'S SHOPI I I I TO UNION MEN: I I _. I I 5%, I I J I I I Discount With ThiS Ad I I ''Schenectady's I 1- Largest Men's Store\ 1 I Hrs .. 9:30~5:00 I ·1 .. T_h. 9-9:30. . . I l--~~.!~!..~.!~~-1 1r,~=~=~r.:::!i:~=:::::~:::::::::::::::::::~==m=:~=::::::::::::~~~=::::::::::::::=:=:::=:====~=:=:::::=~====='''''''''''?.~:''''''''''~==~~~==~=::::::::::::::f.:~::::::::::::=:~~=====~:::::::::::::~~=======::::m:::::::::% i~~~! Maurice B. Graubart & Sons· ~~11, 'For three Generations'· * 16(j Jay St.* For Honr~t Scnice i!!!!! And Good Jewelry HERSUEt MAURfCE B WALTER @l :::if::~:;:::::::;:;:::::::::::::~;::~::::::::~:::::::::::::::::::::;::::::::::~:;t;~:::;::*:::::::::~:::::t:::::::::::::::;::::::::::::::!::::::::::i::::::;:::::::::::~:::::::::::~:::::::::::::::~:::::::::::::~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~:i~: U N I 0 N C 0 L L E G E of Union Univerfity, m Schenectady, New York. OTIC E i s h e .r (: b y g i v e n, t h a t there wi 11 be performed, in the Chapel of tbis College, on Saturday the lOth Day of November Inft. a Sacred Oratorio called M E S S I A H. Compofed by G E 0 R G E FREDE-RIC H A.ND.E L, Efq; To begin at Eight o'Clock in the Evening; precifely. *** Featured will be the UNION COLLEGE and MQUNT HOLYOKE C::OLLEG..E GLEE CLUBS; Mifs RUTH I:AKEWAY, Soprano; Mifs PATRICIA DECKERT, Alto; Mifter RICHARD SHADLEY, Tenor; Mifter KEITH KIBLER, BaJ s; an ORCHESTRA of Twenty-one Mufidans; Mifter HUGH ALLEN WILSON, Conducting. *,X<* Tickets, may be had at the Door, at Two Dollars for Adults, One Dollar for Students, and Free of Charge for Union College Students. - ,, ·r '

,. \( ' \\\' , ..... Page3 CONCORDIENSIS, Friday, Novemb¢r9, 1973 • . . A Student Reacts To War ' < • \ \ • '. ... ' by . DEBBIE GLASSER always gone to synagogue out of habit, iDebbie has been in lsrael tllrougboQt the parental influence, or to satisfy someone else. · recent l.iOilOiet, ed.) · -This time 1 went out of actual desire. There _ The- ordeal beg~n at 2 p.m_ en October 6. I ·was nowhere else I would have preferred to be tem~mber the time so. exactly probably that fateful afternoon. becaus~~J ,.ha~ _never before =:}wakened so The service calmed me some. It was a wise suddenly, . . . . . • . . . ' decision to go. It's difficult to describe the sort . _ -.Jt .was _ Y.om .Kipp'Ur and after a long of ·chills that went through me when the shofar morn~ng walk unde.r· the hot Jerusalen1 sun, was blQ,wn. witl:t no food or 4rink, I was. tited. I had Not until afterwards did I finally go to the walked aU_ through the Old City; watching Institute, where 1 had friends and people I families going to shtd, hearing tl!_e wailing could talk with, in my own language. Their voices of the religious .men praying in their experiences .a•nd feelings were similar. There ancient synagogues, p,raying at the Western were already kids taping up cardboard on the Wall (the only remnant of the Jew-s' Second _windows. That was to be only the first night of Temple, which was destroyed hy ·the Romans the blackout~ a time when a whole city must in the first century), and just generally taking stop after sundown. itt the solemn and meditative at)nosphere of More English news reports were broadcast. this most holy day. There was not a car on the The reality came into focus. The situation was roads, as every Israeli, Whether religious or quite $erjous. Most .of the reserves were being not, \respects. the sanctity of Yom Kippur. I'd called up. One of our counselors,. a 29-year old never felt a cj.ty so at peace. It was a perfect paratrooper, was downstairs packing his - afternoon ,to just lie down and rest fot a few things. The director was_ filling up pails with hours. . . . water and sand. Kids were beginning to call As cahn•Y. as this peace had floated down and send A;nessages home. Dinner was served. over Jerusalem, so was it suddenly shattered. Despite the situation, every()ne ate. After a 24- That's wh~:;n. th.e air. raid sirens began. I .had hour fast, hunger isn't so easily forgotten. _ ne:ver heard. real air n~iq .sirens before. How i telephoned my family at 8.:30 p .. ll1. - it could I possibly know what these ominously was 2:30 p.m. at home. My father had just -frightening tones were? l tried convincing returned from shu! and had not yet heard the myself that they would soon end, that it was news. How I conveyed the country's situation just a loud fire alarn:L ·But I knew. TheFe is and my own safety in Jerusalem aU in three something in .these alarms that can be rninutes is still beyond rne. It was marvelous to instinctively recognized. 1 prayed that the call. Simply hearing my father's voice after JQreboding .that .l felt·· in my heart was really three months' separation was a tremendous not to be the grim rea:lity. But I ha:d to be boost to my spirits. I returned home late that assured. . evening, emotionally and physically exhausted, . .It \vas then that I went .to ask m·y landlords and even slept. what those horrible \loud: noises\ were. Wlten The next morning I returned t:o find many ( opened th~it door, I found thelll briskly sad faces - some had been awake all night, moving around - nervously dressing, shutting either unable to sleep or waiting to get phone wirid~O\\IS, searching for. valuables. When my calls through. One of my best friends was a _ landlady looked up at me, I. saw the tears and wreck ...... she'd been trying to get in touch with fear in her eyes. There could be no deubt left her boyfriend, on active army duty, since I'd in me. ''War/' was all she could utter. \Hurry left her. There was much activity, though. We and dress, --we must go downstairs,\ her tried everywhere to find places needing husband adi:leil: · · · -voluhteer help,· all to no avail. Jt's hard to We rushed down to the first floor explain that feeling of helplessness and apartm~nt, .the building's .sh.eltet. 'f!JeRe. .'!'ere. ·uselessness that :.v,e all .felt that mprniqg. When. · alread·y 'mimy there' ~. most!Y-._older·people, '· 'i' went in to get some breakfast, 1-found a few women, and children. 'I am convinced that it girls there helping the cook prepare the day's was not only. coincidence that the only.yol}ng • . meals .. The two regular kitchen workers are man I saw' was'. running upstairs to get his young Arab boys and hadn't shown up. They uniform - his reserve unif had already ·been still haven't. called up for duty. Since those first 24 hours, things have No one krtew what was happening. Some lhapperied more slowly !tnd \less dramatically. 'people had almost. forgotten the air raid Now, contrary to the first impressions that warning procedures -·they hadn't hear<! any . were culled from the newscasts, we know that since '67. All the radios had been turned on. In this is not going to be a shliirt or easy war. suspense we ')Vaited for the news. Within ten Every day I listen for a great dramatic change, minutes it came; what we all feared was \true. but nothing of the sort comes across. The Arabs were attacking us on two Life goes on. It has to .. But it isn't the same. fronts ..• and with such suddeness ... and on Yom City buses are crowded and come at 20-minute Kippur. It was .almost beyond belief. . intervals rather than five (most drivers have Not even ·a· half hour later, the sirens were been called up). Mail stopped coming in from blasting again, but this time with bne overseas. Many of the little shops ate dosed. continuous tone. AU clear~ All clear?! I was Classes are cancelled at the Institute. Many of told that that meant the immediate danger was us are busy volunteering, and half of the over. W;e ~o1,1id go upstairs, \outside even back teacher!l are in the army. Shaul, our counselor, to shul. My-_-heart was -pounding. I was i~ gone. Everyone is knitting, crocheting, or shakin~. · · · ' smoking.. There is only one topic of .. ·I · followed my landlords back to the conversation. _ . apartment. Mr. Zand was concerned with The war has been going on now for over two controlling his wife's sobs. Their grandson was weeks. The other day, as I was walking home, stationed on the Suez Canal. I saw a young soldier in his twenties. I couldn't I decided to continue with the day's plans to believe it. It has been a long time since I'd seen , attend Nehilah services (these are the closing a young Israeli guy. Then I noticed the clean services on Yom Kippur, when the shofar is white bandages on his arm and right eye. So blo~n to herald th'e end of the :fast). I had this is war ... ROOM FOR RENT . LocatetJ. QV~ Peter Pause Restaurant. 535 Nott ~t. 3 Beedroonis 1 living room. bath and rdtc.hen. SIS per week (Heat. water, !llectricity illd!lded). See ·Peter . Pailse Proprietors for info. • CLIFFORD BOURST ARCO 80 NOTT TERRACE SCHENECTADY .c ~ETER PAUSE. RESTAURANT ' ~ YOUR UNION I.D. CARD IS WORTH 10% MORE AT u Student Discount,, ll ~ Mon·.-sat. 5:30•7:30 ~35 NOTT ST. I .~ J There will be an important meeting. of the Chemistry Club Monday, Nov. 12 at 4:30 in NW 116; the election of a Trea~ur~r will take place; Treasurer must be a freshman. Please attend if you care abeut your representation in the club. A~lso to be discu&sed are by.,laws and the constitution, as wen as the possibility of a square dance and other social functions for next term. * * * * The Student-Faculty Bridge Club will hold its final meeting of he term on Tuesday, November 13, at 7:45 in Hale House Upper J.ounge. All bridge players are ~welcome to attend. · * * * * The Northeastern New York Youth Orchestra willl:le giving a concert in Memorial Chapel, Tuesday, November 13, at 8 p.m., conducted by .Emory Water-s of the Music Department. They will be playing a composition especially Written for them by Mr. Waters who, before coming to Union, taught composition with emphasis on electronic music. Also on the program will be Jean Sibelius' Karelia Suite and Tchaikowsky's Symphony #lin G minor. Paul Stankavich '74 is concez;tmaster, Mark Slawson '74> is Librarian, Dan ~abasin '76 is in charge of personnel and Phil Kass '76, as Treasurer, collects the dues from all non-Union College members of the orchestra. The concert is free to all Union College faculty, staff and . students. * * * * The Provost has announced the formation of an ad hoc committee to evaluate Professor P. Frederick Hartwig for \tenurability.\ Students wishing to submit 'testimony should do so in \Yriting and may give a copy of their statement to any member of the ·committee. · These are: Prof. Theodore Bick (Math.), Chairman; Pr0f. Neal Allen (Hist0ry); Prof. Joseph Board (Pol. Sci.); Prof. Hans Frttund (English). * * * * The Prague Madrigal Singers, aa 18-metnber ensemble of the National Museum· of Prague under the direction of organist Miroslav Venhoda, will perform in Memorial Chapel on November 14, at 8:30 p.m. All Union Colleg~ students are invited and are admitted Free. * * * * The Economics Department . announces a new course for winter term: \Women in the Economy,\ to be taught by Prof. Irene Lurie. The course will analyze the position of women in the Labor market, the economic . ' Michaelsen's office for ·the time and place. Men and women may compete. * :4< * * Attention field hockey fans! Come one, come all and see the Lady Dutchmen (?) challenge the Lady Engineers (Turkettes?) of R.P.l., this Sunday, Nov. 11 at 2:00 on Library field. * * * * Girls interested in forming intramural volleyball teams for winter term contact Alison 6498. . * * * .• Union Book Be Honest With Yourself! Attention campus community: There is a shortage of 1973 Union Books because we were unprepared for the overwhelming positive response. Many people who really want the book have not received one. If you are the proud owner of a 1973 Union Book, and if you really don't feel that it is indeed close to your heart, please return it to Student Activities so that someone else might possess it with joy. This is a gift of love. Think of the other guy. We thank you. Sentimentality - it gets you everytime ~ when you are least expecting it... it is something to share and to appreciate ... * * * * Friday, November 9, the Union College Coffeehouse presents Ellen Warshaw (of Merrick, N.Y.) in Old Chapel at 8:30 p.m. Also appearing with Ellen will be Bob Bain. Admission is 50 cents; coffee and doughnuts are free! Next week: John Roberts and Tony Barrand; Bob Fields. * * * * 1 Freshmen: Buy the 1974 Union Book now - $10;00. Sign up at ·dinner at West on Monday, November 12th, or in Student Activities all week (see Mrs. Marra). Remember, get your hands on the Union Book. You'll never let go. . I . ~ STAR LAQUOR ~. AND WINE DISCOUNT CENTER \Lowest Legal Prices'~ \Free Delivery' fact.o.rs influencing marriage and '~' T I 3 .. 7 \· . nlsc. j· fertility, and the treatment of ., -~ e . \1'\7 ~ wo~en. by the tax l~ws and labor . 1142 STAT.E ST. . Jeg1slatwn. Econom1cs I 0 and 11 i . are suggested but not . required . .--:~4' .. ~,...., .· T.F 11:30-12:20; W 10:30-12:20. Meeting* f;r *in;oor track~ MCAT-DAT-GR Monday, Nov. 12. Cheok Coach•, (SA,J • AtGSB DARfREET NAT'L..BDS. DAILY BREAKFAST· SPECIAL 99¢ Eggs, Toast_ Home Fries and Coffee 6 a.m.-10:30 a.m. 2049 VAN VRANKEN Mon.-Fri. 6-9 Sa.t. 8-9 Tel. 37·7-4261 . * Preparation tor tests required for admission to graduate and profes\' sional schools \ Six and twelve session courses * Small groups * Voluminous material for home study prepared by e:xperts in each field \ Lesson schedule can be 1ailored to meet individual il~eds. * Opportu[lity for review of past lessons via tape at the ce_nter Summer Sessions .. TH.E _.(:OMPL·ETE JlECORD\& TAPF}STORE. LUIGI'S Special Compact Courses Weekends- lntersessions * * * * * italian Restaurant APEX MUSIC KORNER. BARRETT ST. * * * * * CORNli!R OF STATE& B~OADWAY Dl6-9744 STANLEY H. KAPLAN EDUCATIONAL CENTERL.To.: 1675 e .. t ·16th s ..... Brooklyri, N. v ... (212) 236-5300 ·f'-J ' - {516) 538-4555 DAYS: EVENING!t, WEEKENDS . SINCE 1938, ' 8MtO!l • Ph\la. • Washington • Detroit • Los Angclii'J • Mi1mi The Tulorifr& School wilh th• Nationwido ReputatiM

Page4 CONCORDIENSIS, friday, Nove!!l~_er~. 1973 t:n like a Lion Out l,ike a :Lamb Rugby by LEE RIMSKY by ALAN SCHUR Imitating the month of March, after Dick Samuels had hit the and FRED SIMON the Union varsity soccer team post with a booming shot from Thirty athletes, dissatisfied with went in like a lion and came out just inside the penalty area, and organized athletics at Union like a lamb. In their first six John Serbetziam Gapitalized 011 an College, displayed their talents on . games, they jumped off to ~ Albany fullba.c:k's mistake by Library Field Tuesday afternoon superb 5..;()-1 record, and idealistic co n v e r ti ng a p oint- bl a nk in the final Ru~by game of the hopes and dreams abounded. Eut opportunity into a line drive goal. season. Playing with the slogan, reality came crashing down upon Albany came bac.k to tie the score \if you don't use it, abuse it,\ the them, as it inevitably does. and then went one goal ahead. Union College Rugby team Colgate, Middlebury, and Albany but John Denio's .breakaway gallantly fought to a H) to S loss State: Union's .next tht:ee score at the cbse of the firsthalf to the Schenectady Rugby Club. challenges; proved to be too much knotted the g;ame at 4·4. The A well seasoned Schenectady to handle. Broken-hearted after second half was all Albany· State. Club needed all of the'ir these three losses, Union bowed Despite so'! id efforts by experience t<»- overcome a to Jowly Trinity in its final game defensemen Dave Van Arnum hardhittirtg, aggressive, Union and finished the season at 54-1. an~ Bob Gros~man, Albany Club. Midwwthtough the first The Middlebury contest, ta'lhed t?ree stra1ght goals a.nd half, Uniori ·opened the .scoring following Unian's first Joss at the sent u.mon. d~':\ll for the thud · when Alan Schur and Freddy hands of Colgate, was actually a successtve \trn~ m defeat. . Simon teamed up on a beautiful good showing by Union. They A crushed and demoralized run whic:h seemed to set the controlled the ball well, passed Uni~n sq~a? took the ~eld emotional tone of the game fo~ well, and there were no glaring agamst Tnmtyr! and . the fmal Union Cpllege. Playing the best breakdowns in the defense. re~u~t reflected: 1!: 2\1 m fa~o~ ~f they have an ~ear, the Union Middlebury was just too good. Trtmty. The wm was Tnmty ~ serum held' thei.r own against a, They were undefeated going into first of the s~ason. To be perf~ctly 1 a rger, 0 1 d er, and more the game and also had been honest, Unton played ternb~y: experienced Schenectady scrulil~ undereated the previous season. lt they we~e lackh.Jster an~ letharl?tc; In the second half Schenectady was to Union's credit that their T~~ bnght spe>ts, ~ratg Jeffnes· quickly scored twice and goal, rammed .. in by John Denio bf:tlha~t geal on a fme pass fror;t converted only one of two extra after a pass from Richard Earl, Rtchard Earl, ~nd .. T~ Baca:s points. Union botmced back when was the first score against the fine goal play tn hts ftrst start, our fearless leader Bruce stingy Middlebury .defense all were the. only ~hings that saved Eggleston forced the play that year. Mark Brickley, Doug the day from be:tng a total loss. It enabled Mitch 1ubart to score Moran, and Craig Jeffries also · was a fitting end to a Union's second try of the played well, but Union needed disappointing season. afternoon. much more to overcome a team 5-4-J... what a shame. And I To give credit to only a few as powerful as Middlebury. Final thought they'd; go undefeated. Or individuals would be an injustice score: Middlebury 3-Union I. at least lose C3nly one or two to the rest of. the team. Rugby is a . The. Albany State match games. It goe:. to show that team sport, and Tuesday's effort provided an interesting contrast there's no substitute for exemplified just that. General of soccer styles. Albany; laden experience. TIJ.ere are certain ipe;thpe~s was tll~ .marl< .of_ t{le with foreign piayers, eiriployei:l a things that )list can't b.e · failght. Union serum consisting of: Andy deliber~te, highly s~illed type of You've got to learn ~hem_t~r~~~h Wals.cfl, Dave . Kirk, . Dave play, with a: ~neavy emphasis en playing and making· 't:nista,kes: Fiardniari, Bold,JoU; Ted 6lahdy; positioning. Uniou, on the other And since . Union was such. a Greg Cohen, Mi.tch Lubart, and hand, played classic American young team, t~¢1ve sophomores Dave Dimarco. J'he Line p.layed soccer, a lot of speed and contact and four juniors'out ·of twenty- excellent defensiv~ ball with credit in order to offset Albany's two team members, this season going to Chris Taylor, Jeff Hurst, obvious edge in finesse. The 7-4 was witness to lots of learning, and Mike Goldsmith. final score was testimony to the but.also a tre.mem.dous amount of Despite losing 1·3..6, the '113\ fact that American soccer still mistakes.· It w~:as these mistakes team of union managed to score has a long ways to progress.' The th?t .made ~he.<fifference between for the first time this. seas~;m .• game itself was very exciting. flh uridefeat~d ·se.ason and a 5-4-l -For all tho-se ••dedicated\ Union jumped off to an early 3-0 record. . Rugby fans, the team resumes lead in the first quarter. John But the fac:t · that it was play next spring. Denio redirected Doug Moran's inexperience that undid them, and pinpoint pass just beyond the nof Jack 'of manpower for goalie's straining reach into the instance, augers well' for Union's far corner of the goal, Craig soccer future. While seniors Jeffries slammed home a rebound Sandy Wilder; John· Serbatzian, ·=·•••••••lir••••lii ~r~~:ley, Va~ick Ar;aur:els, M:~~ •. THE · I Steve Hi)l will be sorely missed, • there are some good and eager ··Letters the chang~ wi:ll affect the· trqe purpose of .. education. -if ~he purpose of education is for a student · to really . leatn and· Co.-~~ed from. ~~e .2 understand a subject (and I feel · wo~k done, but also· with other that this should be its goal), then · students to obtain the best grades puUing an even greater emphasis · in.. the class. It is coqnnon on grades is defeating its purpose, knowledge that entram;e into . A common complaint of many graduate schools (especial~y students is that Jhey,~r~~:wor~it:~ medical and law schools,•. ·and . fo_r ·l! ,grape .and ;nqt for; le:!l'T~ung·li what else is there) is be.co.riltrig : :s'a;~e.: lYltli an incr~as.e:tn; pr~ssur~ more and more difficult:~ for:guutes;. n;)are·~'ho\\!tq.sllcceed Consequently impressive -· gr&~e.~ : : ~itho;Ui, : J':~!!lly:: im.<te!stanQing~' are necessary for admittance., meth9ds Wlll be !0. use . Everyone admits that grades. .How . _the new gradin.g syster;n, are not always a fair evaluation of wtll affect each s~ud7~t ts how much knowledge a stut;lertt d~pendent upon th~ md~v1dual. has gained in a course. However, Smce. the program has been since each s'tudent is on¢ in' passed by the AlH:ollege Senate thousands applying either for jobs a~ready (and may 1 ~dd that. t~e or schools, a uniform, practical btll was passed desptte a defmtte assessment . of each student is lack of student awareness of the necessary. No one has come up issue . ~ see \Are We· Being with another system which varies Heard\ in last ~ee~·s C«!n.,:ordy:!. greatly from the present grade- there seems to · be :little that point system. students c&n do about it. Now Union plans to revise the However, they can decic;le whether system to a 12-point program. or not they will study to learn, or Not only wili student~ be st_udyfor a B+_. . competing for A's and B's, but .If the 12-pomt gradmg system also for A.,.'s and B+~s. The wtll truly mcrease acceptances ar.guments supporting the. new into graduate sch?ols (althou?h I . system is that it is fairer for the am doubtful ofthts), then let it go . hord·erline student who rect:ives into effect.. The pressure upon the lower grade under the present students will be increas:d, ~ut system. The premise seems to be stude~ts ~lust learn to rationaliZe that graduate schools will now the sttuatton. Grades are here to have applican~s with higher stay.,. Stu~e~ts ~us.t . p!ay ~~e grade~point averages, apdthis w.ill ~ gam~s of t~e ·e\duc~tors. ~n o~der:.1o facilitate acceptance. The counter ?bt~nn the enc;:I th~y destr~, t.e.}he argument is that students who did JObs that the students - W!!}lL receive A's may have been Stu.dents must _make 'a~ seriC?lis borderline cases between A and effort to learn for learnhJg's sake. a, and in this case the new system One day studeil1is will be called on. will lower their cume. to use the knowledge that they've But the most important issut; supposedly gained. Sudc;lenly they ·should not be whether- or not the will n() loJ?.ger. .b~ ~hie. to fool new system· will raise averages. anyone. , What must be considered is how Judy Dein ''WHEN YOU'RE SMALL YOU HAVE TO BE GOOD\ ,J ... ,_ • ' \' .. •• ~ • ' • ''\.¢ ·,, ~\f.& . \ .. . ~\~.· ·p·. . IZZ8fiQ 783 ALBANY ST. w~ Deliver UntirMid~igbt\ ~ Caii314~5600': : ;. ~ l·.· ·a· ther s·,·de •• sophomores and juniors ready to fill their vacated spots. 1s an e~qu·· ·. · isitemovte\: · , · . · , , , : • ~~~X; Rfi,ED, ,SYndic~ted Colum,n/81 i :of Today 5. I ({Handcrafted & I· 1 Imported Itemsn 1 · ~~B·. L • .. d · ot•·t 1n must~ an . ·~:A s:r.ecial film fo;r ·spe.chil • 135JAYST. • • • • Tel. 377 .. 0477 • ••••••••••••••••• r-----------------------~ I TJ~-~-!3-~Qt~~y ' I I . ·I I f 1 CONVERSE 1 I ~ L--~--------J I ~ MOCCASINS I' I Lined & Waterproof Winter & Hiking Boots I 1 - Complete Line of Dance Ace. - II I . 147 JAY ST. L Tel. 374~7777 Hr. 9·5:30, Th. 9•9 .. . . II ----------------------- ·~.-·· .- --- Moffett's Liquor Store 1505 VanVranken Ave. Schenectady, NewVor'k 12308 -ADD TO YOUR .bDUCATl{}N-· -LEARN MORE ABOUT WINES- Join Our WINE TASTING CLUB No Admissions Charge- No Requirements Each month we select a different wine to be tested. There is a card describing the wine ip great detail so you can learn about it. On this card there is a picture· of the label so you can remember the wine in the future to impress your date when you dine. out or sitr\ply wa:nt a gllOd bottle of wine .. - visih~e bea11;ty · the P.ICtl!re is a. . . continuing debght~' -ARCHER'NIIJSTEN, N.Y. Pool ('~Impossibly beautiful to the eye. Visually exqmisite:' -BER/1/ARP JJREW, Gannett News. Service ~~ visL!a~ly __ exqtusite film .•. an unusual and welcome experience.\ -WILLIAM W'OLF, Cue COLUMBIA PICTURES PRESENTS A FILM.BV IIODifAiiTHA • ST .ARRING SHASHI K1.PQOR • F'AODUCEO. DIRECTED AND WRITTEN FOR THE ·pHQTOORAPHEO 't!Y SVEN NYKVIST P'\\\'~'O\\' ·· aodi~nc~s, for d·evotees: of Hesse's noveis·for · admirers' of the 'e~otic,'. ~ ' . and for everyo~e . · who wants to he adventurous in film going.'' -GENE SHALIT. WNfJC·TV • HELD OVER 2nd Week - - CINE 1-2·3-4 NORTHWAY MALL COLONIE THEATRE 290 DELAWARE AVE. ALBANY /J ' - \ forr whc refu spec will Mo 1 Uni pro M€ Uni inc! Alb Col Ob1 F a.m sen sta l:).dr As~ cha De I wa1 ( Uni uni Pol con coil pro inc ins1 Da mo in inc ins1 Na Un Un 1 C011 rep pol thr• cl h fJ 0 ( a s 1\ tl v .. ' s \ s [ E F ( J J ~ J ~ • \ [ ~ I ( \ r ) i ( I ~ I ~ J

. Page4 CONCORDIENSIS, friday, Nove!!':\!!_er_~. 1973 '. 1. ·1·k L. In -1 .. e a ._.- 1on . . the change will affect th.e · trqe purpose_ o:(. edQcation. -i'r the pQrpose of education is for ·a student · to · really . learn and Out l.ike a. Lam·b·• Rugby . ~onfih~' fr«JII! pas~.~ understand a subject (!md I fee1 .. ·· .·· work done, but also· with tither . that t:his sboul~ be its goat), then · · students to obtain the be$t gr~des .putting an. ·even greater empha$is · ·in . the class. It .is- comtnon on gradeS is. defeating its purpose. by LEE RIMSKY by ALAN SCHUR ~nd FREDSIMON -- kn~wledge that entrance · · irtto . A common complaint of ma~y · graduate schools . (especial~y . stJ14e~ts is that ·~th~~ ~~t~,wor~it},g medical . and law sch 0 o1s·i~ and _f:or\l! -~rape ,and :nqt. {orJeJit1;11llg-~ what else is ther,e) is b~c'oJili.'llg : :S:;l:ke~ lYltli an incl~a~i,_ri: ,r:~ui:~ more and mote diffic:uft: ~. for::gt~-es;. -n).ore- ~·~o\'l tq ·s.)lc:Cee.d, Consequently impressive·· gtac:l~$ _;:..yftho:rii: ~;'f~~fly ~ :;-uoa~stimding:• Imitating the monlh ef March, the Union varsity soccer team went in like a lion and came out like a Iamb. ln their first six games, · they jumped off to a; superb .5-o-1 record; and idealistic hopes and dreams abounded. But reality ca:me crashing down upon them, as it inevitably does. Colgate, Middlebury, and Albany State: Union's .next three challenges; proved to be too much to handle. Broken-hearted after these three los~es, Union bow~d to lowly Trinity in its final game and finished the season at 5-4-1. The Middlebury contest, following Union's first Joss at the ·hands of Colgate, was actually a . good showing by Union. They controlled the ball well, passed well, and there were no glaring breakdowns in the defense. Middlebury was just too good. They .were undefeated going into the game afld also had been undefeated the .previous season. lt was to Union's ctedit that their goal, rammed.· -in by John Denio after a pass from Richard Earl, was the first score against the stingy Middlebury defense all yeat. Mark Brickley, Dopg Moran, and Craig JeffFies also played well, but Union needed much more to overcome a team as powerful as Middlebury. Final score: Middlebury 3-Union L . .. The,· Albany State match provided an · interesting contrast of soccer style~. Albany, laden- with foreign' piayers, eiliployetl' a deliberate, high:!y skilled type of phiy, · w'ith a ~Jiea vy\ ei:nphiisis \ on positioning. Unioq, on the other hand, played classic American soccer, a lot of speed and contact in order to offset Albany's obvious edge in finesse. The 7-4 final score was testimony to the fact that American soccer still has a long ways to progress.' The game itself was very exciting. Union jumped off to an early 3...() lead in the first quarter. John Denio redirected Doug Moran's pinpoint pass just beyond the goalie's straining teach into the far corner of the goal, Craig Jeffries slammed home a rebound ·=············· ITHE . I after Dick Samuels had hit the post with a booming shot frotn Thirty athletes, dissatisfied with just inside the penalty area, and organized athl~tics at Union John Serbetzian capitalize<) on an College, displayed their talents on Albany fullback's mistake by Library Field Tuesday afternoon converting a point-bl:ank in the final Rugby game of the opportl.lnit¥ into a line drive goal. season. Playing with the slogan, Albany came back to tie the score ••jf you don't use it, abuse it,\ the and then went one goal ahead, Union Colleg~e R-ugby team but John Denio's breakaway ga:llantly fought to a 10 to 8 loss score at the Close of the first half to the Schenectady Rugby Club. knotted the game at 4'-4. The A well seasoned Schenectady second -half was all Albany State. Club nee<Jed. an of the:ir Despite sol.id effoTtS· by ex.perience to overcome a defensemen Dave Van · Arnum hardhitting, aggt-e~sive 1 Union and Bob Grossman, Albany Club. Midw~y through the first tallied three straight goals and· half, Uniori · opened the scoring sent Union down for the third · when Ala:n Schur anc! Freddy succe!lsive time in defeat. Simon teamed u,p on a .beautiful . A crushed and demoralized run which seemed to set the Union squad took the field emotional ten~ of the. game for against Trinity, ~nd the final Union Cpllege .. Playing the. best result reflected it: 2-1 in favor of they have all ye~r, ·the ·Union Trinity. The. win was Trinity's serum held tlleir own against a first -of the season. To be perfectly larger, older., .and more honest, Union played terribly: experienced Schenectady serum. they were lackluster and lethargic. 1 n the ~e~ond bidf Schenectady Two bright spots, Craig Jeffries' quickly · seated twice ~nd brilliant goal on a fine pass from converted only one of two extra Richard Earl,. and. Tom Baca's points. Uhion bounced back when fine. goal play in his first star.t, our fearless leader Bruce were the only things that saved Eggleston forced the play that the day .from being a total loss. It enabled Mitch Lubart to score was a fitting end to a Union's second try of the disappointing season. afternoon. 5-4-1... what a shame. And I To give credit to only a few thought they'd\ go t.mdefeated. Or. individuals woul~ be an injustice at least lose only one or two· to the rest of. the teain. Rugby is a games. It goes to show that team sport, and, Tuesday's effort there's no substitute for exemplified just that. General experience. There are certain tpe!lhrie§s was ·the. marl< .o( tbe things that just can't be. fatiglit~ Unien serum com;isting of: Andy You've got to learn them through Walsc.Jl, Dave .. .Kirk, • Dave playing and making; 'iltistakes: Rkrdman, Boh'fl.oll;.]ed SlabdY', And since . Union was such. a Greg Cohen, Mitch Lubart, and young teatn, t\\:~Ve sophomores Dave Dimarco. The Line played and four juniors' out ·of twenty- excellent defensive ball with credit two team members, this season going to- Chris Taylor, Jeff Hurs.t, was witness to lots of learning; and Mike Goldsmith. b.l.l~.alao a tre.m.en,dous amount of Despite losing 1'3 . ..6, the. ·~B\ mistakes.' It was these mistakes team of Union managed to score th~.t .made ~h~. difference between for the first time this se?SQn. _ flQ upaefeat~d·s~ason and a 5-4-1 .For all those· ·\dedicated\ recc>rd. ., · Rugby fans, the team resumes But the fact · that it was play next spring. inexperience that undid them, and are nec~ssary fot admittal1<;e .. ' ·, .. ·~: :rneth9.d!! 'Will be: •!n lise. · • Everyone admits .that grades, · How _the new ·gtading·syste~ are not always a fair evaluatio:n of wiU affect each .. s!ud~~t . is' how much knowledge a. stud~nt d~pende~t upon th~ md~vtdual. has gained in a course. However, Smce the . program <bas been since each s'tudent is one in' pas.sed by the AlH::ollege Senate thousands applying either f.;>r jobs a~ready (and may I ~dd that t?e or schools, a uniform, practical btU was passed desptte a defimte assessment . of each student is· lack -of student awareness C)f the necessary .. No one has come up issue . ~· see ''A.re We· Beiri,~ witlt another system which varies Heard\ Jn last }.Vee~'!.! C«!rtc:Qrdy_l greatly from the present gn\de• there seems ~o · be little that point system. students can do about . it. Now Union plans to revise the However, they cap deci4e whether system to a 12:..point program. or riot they will $ttidy to -learn, or Not o 0 ly will. students be·' study for a B+ • competing for A's and. 'B's, but If the . 12-point ~radiilg system also for . A-'s and 8+'s. The win .truly i,ncrease acceptances arguments supporting, the. new into graduate sch~ols(althou~h: I . system, is that it is fairer for the, am doul>tftd ofth1s), then let 1t go . boril'erline student who rece:ives into effect.. The pressure upon the lower grade under the present . !ltndeilts will be . increased, but system. The :premise seems to be stude~ts ~ust learn tQ rationalize that graduate schools will now the Situatton.. Grades are here to have . applicant,s, with higher . stay .. _ ~tu~e~~s w~st . p~a~ !he grade-1point average$, a11<!,thi$ will . ~am~s oft~e :e~u~,!itors_ ~ o~deqo facilitate acceptance~ The counter ?bt~m the en~ th~y des1r~, I.e. Ihe argument is that students whQ did JObs . that the students· . Wl\]lt. receive Ns .. J;Day have been: · St~~ents ~ust ~fttake :a,~S.etigus borderline cases between A and: effort to learn for learn1J;Jg's sak~. a, and in this case the new system· One day stud_ems y.rill be called on. wi]J lowet their cume. to l;lse lbe Rnowledge th;it they've But the :mo!lt. important issue supposedly ·gained. Sud(ienly they should not be whethel' or not.th~ will no. ~Q~eJ: -~~ ~l?le. to fool new system· will raise averages. . anyone. · • What rriust be considered is how Judy Dein \WHEN YOU'RE SMALL YOU HAVE TOBE GOOD\ • •\'~' .. Jot:\' ....... •·• • .... ~~~ \\\'O'I\' .. ~.,.,.j> .. \\··\\· ... ,·~.+\'q; .... ~ .. ~? ~ ~ . 783 ALBANY ST ... ' . . We Deliver Untir:Mid~lght' ~ Cait 374~5600~ :·: .;. ~ (5 .bth~r Side ! not' ·lack bf\ manpower for instance, augers well for Union's soccer future. While seniors Sandy Wilder; John ·serbatzian. Dave Van Amum, Mark Brickley, Dick Samuels, and Steve Hi}! will be sorely missed, there are some good and eager sophomores arid juniors ready to fill their vacated spots. • • •.•.•• ~· r ' 1s· an e~qu·· . · ··tstte··'lllOVte~:~~ i : of Today i. I ~'Handcrafted & I· • Imported Items\ • · • • • 135 JAY ST. • • • • • Tel. ·377..i0477 ··• •••••••••••••••• vs .. llii.u·s . \'j . F & H. Pb...,_ey , ~J7 UNIOf!l ST. .· j··. . .. ,..37 .. 2311 . r-~------------~~-------1 I . . . I I TJ~~-\l-~~-t~~y I , : CONVERSE l I r L __________ J 11. ~ MOCCASINS t Lined & Waterpro~f Winter & Hiking Boots I I - Complete Lme of Dance Ace. - ·I· ·· 147 JAY ST. L . . . . T~l. 374'-7777 Hr. 9-5:30, TIJ. 9•9 . . .. . . . .• . ------------· ·-------- ' - ' ~;-·- ,..- Moffett's Liquor Store 1505 Van Vranken Ave.· Schenecta<ly, New York 1230.8 -· ADD TO YOUN .t:JJUCATION- · -LEARN MORE ABOUT WINES-· Join Our WINE TASTING CLUB No Admissions Charge - No Requirements Each month we select a different wine to be tested. There is a card describing the wine ip great detllil so you can learn about it. On this card there is a picture· of the label so you can remember the wii1e in the future .to impress your date . when you dine out or simply W!l'nt a good bott.Ie of ;vine. _ . _ .. . . . . , . , . , , , . : , -FJ~x; RE 1 Ep, ,syndlcrte~ CQtum,nlot ~~B.o!h in musie and ·._ ·~~.s:eecial film fo:r'spe~iill ·' ·, ·'~ ::, vJslh\e beau!y . ·· au~fi~nc~s; for devotee~- · · . ·the P.1ct~re is a.. . . c,f H~sse\s n~-y:t:ls;.f~:.::· ..... ~ .. · .... continUing dehghtZ' _ admirers of the .exotiC, . and f~r everyo~~ -ARCHER WINSTEN, N.Y. Post ~~Impossibly beautiful to the eye. Visually exquisite!' -BERNARD IJREW. Gannet! New• Service ~~ visl!aJly _ exquuute film .•. an unusual and welcome experience.\ -WILLIAM WOLF, Cue . who wants to be adventurous in film going.~' --'GENE SHA/:It; WNBC-7V • - HELD OVER 2nd. Week - CIN'E 1-2-3-4 NORTHWAY MAtL COLONI~ THEATRE 290 DELAWARE AVE. ALBANY ,, (t. !J • - I w forir who refw spe.c will Mer Tl Un.ic pro~ Me Uni' inch Alb: Coli Obs R an-d sem sta1 qdn: Ass cha1 Der F was 0 · Uni1 uni 1 Poli com colh pro! inc! insti Dar mos in 1 inc insti Na1 Uni Uni T COlli repc poli thrc d ht fr, 01 0 ar S1 1\1 . th vc H V\ Sl \ S1 D 81 R (' .J< J·i S: . J: ·rv H \' D .JV I, (' V\ p A K G ·J,. S1 p . s, H

Vol. 103, No. 7 Ruckelshaus ·To Speak WiUiam Ruckelshaus, the former Deputy Attorney General who was ·fired last month for refusing to dismiss Watergate special prosecutor Atch.ibald Cox, will speak at Union College on Monday, Nov. 19. The talk, a part of the 1973 Union University Centennial program, is set for 8 p.m. in Memorial Chapel. The University, founded in 1873, includes Albapy Medical College, Albany Law School, Albany College of Pharmacy, The Dudley Observatory and Union College. Ruckelshaus, an Indiana native and one-time Republican senatorial candidate from that state, joined the Nixon. ~dministration in 1968 as an Assistant Attorney General in charge of the Civil Division of the Department of Justice. From 1970 until last spring, he was Administrator of the U.S. founded at Union Colleg~ ;;; 1811 F~day, November 19, 1~)7~ 20 cents A Fair Shot at Success En vir on menta! Protection Agency; Kuckelshaus left that post in April for a three month stint as . Acting Director of the Federa:l Bureau of Investigation. From July of this year until the weekend of the Cox dismissal, he was Deputy U.S. Attorney General~ the second in command at the Justice' Departm~nt. by PAUL LAZOR and GERALD QUINN tutoring during the following years. Over fifty students have benefited from the program in the \Compensatory education\ is past three years, and only ten or one of the most discussed and eleven have failed to succeed. debated concepts of 'modern Students may seek aid in only one colleg~ate policy. Some claim that course if need he, and professors high level institutions sacrifice are encouraged to provide their standards in a frantic information on any student who attempt to balance rolls and might benefit from the program. appear open-minded. Others see Dean S m i th says the compensatory education as a compensatory idea as a whole,\ ... totally ·correct and proper represents speci;il provisions to technique for incorporating increase the likelihood of an previously disenfranchised underpriviliged student qualifying elements of the society into the for admission, and gives him a educational establishment. Dean fair shot at succeeding.\ Be Mark Smith and Assistant Dean believes the program is of S~udents 'Leroy Moore were compensating for \years of interviewed and gave their exploitation.\ He adds that opinions on the subject. present grading. systems at Union The .Academic Opportunity tend to be prejudicial and that Consortium (A.O.C.) is the raw test scores or class ranks do visible, institutionalized form of not always judge all students the phenomenon of which we equally. speak. Dean Moore explained Smith states that, \We must go that the A.O.C. consists of a out ef our way to convince them summer program before the (blacks) that they are here for freshman year which can give the reasons other than tokenism.\ disadvantaged student a head Furthermore, \Union is trying to start at Union, and subsequent include an increasing number of by many that admissions standards have been lowered by the A.O.C. program, Qean Moore felt that standards had been made \more sensitive.\ Students who have been tracked into non-academic schedules since the seventh grade will naturally have difficulties in gaining admission and making good grades. Great motivation and latent ability compensate for generally lower board scores and writing abilities. Moore feels that , the great success which has already. been displayed by some · A.O.C. students has shown the program to be viable and those involved in it worthy of respect. Push Button Research disadvantaged students. It is positively, openly making attempts to offer special opportunities.\ He cites the insertion of Perspective into the newspaper and the cooperation of the Concordy staff and the Black Alliance as an example of what should be achieved. The Stigma which is often attached to participants in A.O.C. was of great concern to both deans. Smith said, \Students who object to special opportunities as subtracting from equal opportunity must take a look at the poor environment from which an underprivileged student comes.\ Dean Moore also made this point and felt that as more students became involved in the program the rumors and prejudices surrounding the matter will disappear. Upperclassmen ·who are On August I st of this year, Union College joined the Inter- university Consortium ~for Political Research (!CPR). The consortium consists of over I 90 colleges, universities, and non- profit research organizations, inclu.di.ng such prest1g10us institutiens as . Harvard, Notre Dame and Princeton. Though most of its members are located in the United States, the ICPR includes several foreign institutions, such as Australian National University, the University of Kiev, and Tel Aviv University. The main purpose of the consortiut!l is to provide a central repository for machine-readable political data and the facilities through whjch this information Elections for the editor-in- chief of Concordiensis will be held Monday, November 26th from 7 to 10 p.m. in the offices on the third floor ·of Jhe f'oll'ege Center. The candidates are Don Krone and Dave Stroni, Phyllis Edelman, and Kobel Haver. The members of the staff who are eligible to · vote are: Paul Lazor, Gerard Quinn, Howie Lax, Jack Pitney, Fred Weinstein, Judy Dein, Marty Sherman, Curt Brown, Lauren Weilburg, Elaine Paolucci, Steve , Klak, Lisa Barron, David Dale, Nancy Murphy, Bill Talis, Nancy Golden, Jane Rudder, Amy Juskowitz, Claudia Herman, Liz Pava, John Pizutto,- Fred Abbott, Jeanne Neumann, Jon Sargent, Patti Curran, Phyllis James, Chuck Agnew, Rob Mondschcin, Chris O'Connor, Harriet Kaplan, Mitch Weisburg, Joanne Laufer, David Neifeld; David Moskowitz, Illyria Puharich, Linda Mackey, Helen Billak, Celeste Undsey, Ootsie Whitney, Karen Sokoloff, Pansy Wong, Kevin Scoles, Anne Gemmell, Paul Corwin, Kathy Gemmell, Lauren Gordon, Richard Thau, Harry Lessin, Jane Rudder, ·Leslie Steineker, Blair Reischer, Perky Francis, Jim Tremlett, Scott Gordon; Kohel Haver, Hershel Raff. by JACK PITNEY representative, Dr. Fred Hartwig, sees this as a particularly may be disseminated among significant move. According to member institutions. Thus, the Dr. Hartwig, graduate programs heart of the ICPR is its sysj:em o{ in political science are becoming computerizt;:d data archives, increasingly behavioral and more Concerning the fears expressed interested in the program may contact Mrs. Reid and work in tutorials. It should be emphasized that black and white students alike may benefit from the A.O.C. located at the University of reliant on statistical· analysis. ·C . A • I Michigan ill Ann Arbor. The first With the constricted job market on sumer s rISe archive cr>Htains survey data; for potitical scientists in the past · ~ · · · · · · · . · · · · ·· · 8 originally, these data were limited four years, many graduates of to the findings of the Center for these programs have accepted Political Studies, but now the positions outside of the large archive includes a much broader colleges; hence, their need for range of information. The second data through the ICPR is archive is concerned with substantial. Dr. Hartwig points historical data, especially useful out that the executive director of to scholars .interested in long-term the I CPR, Richard Hofferbert, historieal trends. The third taught for several _years at archive holds information about Williams College and understands internati()nal relations; though the problems of these researchers. this section is only three years Because of this, Hofferbert helped old, researchers are already make it easier for the small making heavy demands on its colleges to join. holdings. Dr. Hartwig sees membership In addition to the archives, the as especiaily advantageous to consortium has developed a Union College. He notes that the trammg program to enable members of the Political Science scholars to get the most out of the Department are all profesionally- archival data. The lCPR summer oriented, each currently engaged program trains social scientists in in scholarly research. However, data processing and analysis, Dr. Hartwig explains that there giving them practical experience has been a decline in academic in computer methodology and grants over the past few years, providing opportunities for making it more difficult for advance<! work in research political scienti~ts to conduct technique. research requiring the collection Each member institution has a of original data. Membership in say in these activities through its the consortium will allow the \Official ~epresentative,\ who Political Science faculty to obtain serves as the link between much needed data at no personal individuals ,on campus and the cost. !CPR staff. Annually, these Students will benefit as well Representatives meet m Ann from the {CPR. As Dr. Hartwig Arbor t~ discuss policy and elect says, ·\with a minimum amount of the nine members of the !CPR training in statistics and data CounciL The actions of the ICPR processing, you can start to do are based on joint decisions made projects that can really be by the Council and the staff at the exciting.\ He points out that Center for Political Studies. student work with the ICPR data (Though it works in close can be particularly rewarding, cooperation with the Consortium, \because to paraphrase John the Center is actually a separate Dewey, you learn more by doing body.) than just by hearing.\ The basic means of operation The ICPR resources are not of the ICPR are the annual dues meant to supplant the library as paid hy its members. Institutions the main center of research. offering graduate work Ill Rather, Dr. Hartwig says, \The approprtate content areas must consortium offers possibilities we Several .Union stu9ents hav~.­ begun orgamzmg a \Ralph Nader-styled\ action force, a Student Public Interest Action Group (PIRG). Originally inspired by Nader's work, the number of these groups has grown to over 25 since 1971. Student work in the public interest has proved to be very effective, occasionally resulting in Congressional action and reform. The theory of the nationwide association is to bring concerned students together with experienced professionals to seek out and solve social problems. Full-time staffs of attorneys and secretaries are retained by these groups to process and act upon the information uncovered by students. With the State's facilities at Albany, Union students can initiate and conduct their investigations into ·any and all agencies not delivering their potential to the people. Our students will also be lobbying in the Legislature as well as researching the records of Assemblymen and Senators. Research will also be done to reveal any unfair practices by local merchants. What is critical for Union's group is obtaining sponsorship by the school and the student body. The PIRG group must receive the endorsement of Union in order to be affiliated with the National chapter and receive professional assistance. If interested in seeing a public interest group here and helping with its investigations, come to an important meeting on Monday, Nov: 19 at 4:30 in SS I 15 or contact Henry Clay at 372-6231, or Robert Ruggeri at 393-8587. pay $5,000, while most under- 2< >lk · \'k . )ll,.: >i BAWDY, BRAWLING, AND BUXOM Tartuffe, hy Moliere, will he presented hy the Mountehanks Jn the middle of Fehruarl'. TRYOUTS will be held in the Nott Memo~ial Theat;r Nov. 26 and 27 from 2:30 to 5:00, and.from 7:30 to 11:00. Sign-up sheets now available in the Green Room of the theater. graduate institutions are assessed Tonight!!! Friday, Nov. 16. for $2,900. This year however, the Union ·college Coffeehouse I CPR rn&de a special provision presents' John Roberts and Tony for small colleges such as Union, Barrand and Bob Fields in Old Wil1ia ms, and Wesleyan, Chapel at 8:30p.m. Admission is requiring annual dues of only 50 cents. FREE BEER! $1,500. Union's ·official.x >lk! ~~<===::;)l>cH:· =::)~>«: -Photo Collage by Scott Gordon

JJ ' .. Vol. 103, No. 7 Ruekelshaus To Speak William Ruckelshaus, the former Deputy Attorney General who was fired last month for r!!fusing to ·dismiss Watergate spe.cial prosecptor Archibald Cox,. will speak at Union .Coll~ge on Monday, Nov. 19. · The talk, a part (}f the 197.3 Union University Centennial · program, is set fot 8 p.m. in Memorial ChapeL The University, founded in l873, includes Albapy Medical College, Albany Law School, Albany College of Pharmacy; The Dudley Observatory and Union College. R qckelshaus, an Indiana native and one .. time Re:publicau senatorial ·candidate from that. state, joined the Nixon. l:)dministration in 1968 as an Assistant Attorney General in charge of the Civil Division of the Department of Justice. F torn 1970 until last spring, he was Administrator of the U.S. founded at. Union College m 1877 Environmental Protection Agency. Kuckelshaus left that post in April for a three month stint as :Acting Director' of the Federal Bureau of Investigation. Frol;Il July of this year until the weekend ef the Cox dismissal. he was Deputy U.S. Attorney General, the second in command at the Justice' Departm:nt. . . Friday, November 19, 197~ ....,..:-.:: - ~ · Ple~se.!t~ecycle · ')': 20 cents A Fair Shot at Success by PAUL LAZOR . and G'ERALD QUINN \Compensatory education\ is one of the most discussed .and debated concepts of 'modetn colleg~a:te policy. Some claim that high level institutions sacrifice their standards in a frantic attempt to· balance rolls and appear open-minded. Others see compensatory education as a totally correct and proper technique for incorporating previously disenfranchised elements of the society into the educational establishment. Dean Mark Smith and Assistant Dean of Students Leroy Moore were ·interviewed and gave their opinions on the subject. The . Academic Opportunity Consortium (A.O.C.) is the visible; institutionalized form of the phenomenon of which we spea.k. Dean Moore explained that the A.O.C. consists of a summer program before the freshman year which cari give the disadvantaged student a head start at' Union, and subsequent tutoring during the following years. Over fifty .students nave benefited from the program in the past :three years, and only ten or eleven have failed to sucqeed. Students rnay seek aid in onlY one course if need be, and professors are encouraged to prov.ide information on any student who might benefit from the program. Dean Smith says the compensatory idea as a whole~ \ ... represents special provisions to increase the likelihood . of an und.erpriviliged student qualifying for admission, and gives him a fair shot at succeeding.\ J-le believes the program is compensating for .. years of exploitation.'' He adds that present .grading systems at Union tend to be pr~judicial and that raw te!!t scores or class ranks do not always judge all students equally. by many that admissions st11ndards have been lowered by the A.O.C. progl.7am, pean Moore felt that standards had been made \more sensitive.\ Students who have been tracked into non•academic schedules since the seventh grade will naturally have difficulties in gaining admission and making good grades. Great motivation and latent abitity compensate for generally lower board scores and writing abilities. Moore feels that . the great success which has already. been displayed by some A.O.C. students has shown the program to be viable and those involved in it worthy of respect. Push Button Research Smith states that, \We must go out 0f our way to convince them (blacks) that they are here for reasons other than t<;Jkenism. •• Furthermore, \Unian is trying to include an increasing number of disadvantaged students. It is positively, openly making attempts to offer . special opportunities/' He cites the insertion of Perspective into the newspaper and the cooperation of the Concordy staff and the Black Alliance as an example of what should be achieved. The Stigma which is often attached to participants in A.O.C. was of great concern to both deans. Smith said, ••students who object to special opportunities as subtracting from equal opportunity must take a look at the poor environment from which a.n underprivileged student comes.\ Dean Moore also made this point and felt that as more students became involved in the program the rumors and prejudices surrounding the· matter will disappear. Upperclassmen ·who are On August lst of this year, ·Union College joined the lnter- univers.ity Consortium lor Political Research (ICPR). The consortium consists of over 190 colleges, universities, and non- profit· research organizations, inc! ud.ing such prestigious institutions as - Harvard, Notre Dame and Princeton. Though most of its members are located in the United States, the ICPR includes several foreign institutions, such as Australian National University, the University .of Kiev, and Tel.Aviv University. The main purpose of the consortiu:r;t is to provide a central repository for macltine-readable political data and the facilities through whjch this infQrmation Elections for the editor-in- chief of Concordiensis will be held 1\foliday, November 26th from 7 to lO p·.m. in the .offic.es on the third floor 'of ,the College Center. The candidates are Don Krone and Dave · . Strom, Phyllis Edelman, and . l\ohel Haver. The members nf . the staff who are eligible to · vote are: Paul Lazor, Gerard Quinn, · Howie Lax, Jack Pitney, Fred Weinstein, Judy Dein~ Marty Sherman, Curt Brown, Lauren Weilburg, Elaine Paolucci, Steve . K!ak, Lisa Ba·rron, David Dale, Nancy Murphy, Bill Talis, Nancy Golden, Jane Rudder, Amy Juskowitz, Claudia Herman, Liz Pava, John Pizutto,- Fred Abbott, Jeanne Neumann~ Jon Sargent, Patti Curran, Phyllis .James, Chuck Agnew, Rob • Mondschein, Chris O'Connor, Harriet Kaplan, Mitch Weisburg. Joanne Laufer, David Neifeld, 9avid · · Moskilwitz, lllyria Puharich, Unda Mackey, Helen 8illak, (' eleste Undsey, D otsie Whitney, Karen Sokoloff, · · Pansy Wong; Kevin Scoles, · Aime Gemmeil, P~tul Corwin, Kathy Gemmell, Lauren Gordon, Richard Thau, Harry Lessin, Jane Rudder? Leslie Steineker, Blair Reischer, Pel'ky Francis, Jim Tremlett, . Scott Gordon, ):{())lei Haver, Hershel Raff. by JACK PITNEY representative; Dr. Fred Hartwig, sees this as a particularly may be disseminated among significant move. According to member institutions. Thus, the Dr. Hartwig, graduate programs heart of the ICPR is its system or in political science are becoming computerized data archives, increasingly behavioral and more located at the University of reliant on statistical· analysis. Michigan in Ann Arbor. ihe first With the constricted job market archive contains survey data;. for political scientists in the past originally, these data were limited four years, many graduates of to the .findings of the Center for these programs have accepted Political Studies, but now the positions outside of the iarge archiv~ includes a much broader colleges; hence, their need for range of information. The second data through the lCPR is archive is concerned with substantial. Dr. Hartwig points historical data, especially useful out that the executive director of to scholars interested in long-term the ICPR, Richard Hofferbert, histo.rical trends. The third taught for several _years at archive hold.s information about Williams College and understands international relations; though the problems of these researchers. this section is only three years Because of this, Hofferbert helped old, researchers are already make it easier for the small inaking heavy demands on its. colleges to join, holdings. Dr. Hat~wig sees membership In addition to the archives, the as especially advantageous to consortium has developed a Union College. He notes that the training pmgtam to enable members of the Political Science scholars to .get the most out of the Department are all profesionally- archival data. The lCPR summer oriented, each currently engaged program trains social scientists in in scholarly research. However, data processing and analysis, Dr. Hartwig explains that there giving them practical experience has been a decline in academic In computer methodology and grants over the past few years, providing opportunities for making it more difficult for advanced work in research political scienti8ts to conduct technique. research requiring fhe collection Each member institution has a of original data. Membership in say in these activities through its the consortium will allow the \Official F.epresentative,\ who Political Science faculty to obtain serves as the link between much needed data at no personal individuals on campus and the cost. IC'PR staff. Anrtually, these Students will benefit as well Representatives meet in Ann from the ICPR. As Dr. Hartwig Arbor t~ discuss policy and elect says, k'with a minimum amount of the nine members of the ICPR training in statistics and data CounciL The actions of the lCPR processing. you can start to do are based on joint decisions made projects that can really be by the Council and the staff at the exciting.\ He points out that Center for Political Studies. student work with the ICPR data (Though it works in close can be particularly rewarding. cooperation with the Consortium, \because to paraphrase John the Center is actually a separate Dewey, you learn more by doing body.) than just by hea:ring,\ The basic means of operation The ICPR resources are no.t of the ICPR are the annual dues meant to supplant the library as paid by its members. Institutions the main center of research. offering graduate wotk 1n Rather, Dr. Hartwig says, .. The appropriate content areas must consortium offers possibilities we Concerning the fears expressed interested in the program may contact Mrs. Reid and work in tutorials. It should be emphasized that black and white students alike may benefit from the A.O.C. C A • I onsumers ... r1se. Several .Union stupents havl begun orgamzmg a \Ralph Nader-styled\ action force, a Student Public Interest Action Group (PIRG). Originally inspired by Nader's work, the number of these groups has grown to over 25 since 1971. Student work in the public interest has proved to be very effective, occasionally resulting in Congressional action and Feforrn. ihe theory of the nationwide association is to bring concerned students together with experienced professionals to seek out and solve social problems. Full-time staffs of attorneys and secretaries are retained by these groups to process and act Upon the information uncovered by students. With the State's facilities at Albany, Union students can initiate and coflduct their investigations into ·any and all agencies not delivering their potential to the people. Our students will also be lobbying in the Legislature as well as researching the records of Assemblymen and Senators. Research will also be done to reveal any unfair practices by local merchants. What is critical for Union•s group is obtaining sponsorship by the school and the student body. The PIRG group must receive the endorsement of Union in order to be affiliated with the National chapter and receive professional assistance. If interested in seeing a public interest group here and helping with its investigations, come to an important meeting on Monday, Nov: 19 at 4:30 in SS 115 or contact Henry Clay at 372-6231, or Robert Ruggeri at 393-8587. pay $5,000, while most under- k >i\i · :Ak >ik >,:. BAWDY, BRAWLING, AND BUXOM Tartuffe, by Moliere~ will h~ presented hy the Mountebanks,in the middle of Fehruary. TRYOUTS will he held in the Nott Memorial Theater Nov. 26 and 27 from 2:30 to 5:00, andfrom 7:30 to ll:OO. Sign-up sheets now available in the Green Room of the theater. graduate institutions are assessed Tonight!!! Friday, Nov. 16, for $2,900. This year however, the Union ·college Coffeehouse lCPR made a special provision presents' John Roberts and Tony for small colleges such as Union, Barrand and Hob Fields in Old Williams, and Wesleyan, Chapel at 8:30p.m. Admission is requiring annual dues of only 50 cents. FREE BEER! $1,500. Union's ~official .k ::>t\' Hk==HkC:· =::::Hi'l~ -Photo Collage by Scott Gordon

Page2 TO: Mer.'bers of the llnion College f·:.mmunity The C · mmittee on Conduct exists and shall take action to assure that every memher of the [ :nion community shall h<tvc: CONCORDIENSJS, LETTERS TO ·, Nol'emher 9, 1973 · · . should stop and con~id . ED· I·. ro·R· . individ!JatlY: :r-es.pecially urge t ·• · · ·· · · · · · : ·: +:reshmen ·clas1i ·!lot to come tn I. Free access to and usc of College facilities. Hctivities. and nrportunities. represc.ntat1ves of each fnHernity. While few fra.ternity representatives ta·ke advantage of this privilege right. I have been appointed by the President ofmy I r.uternity to a-ttend these often lengthy sessions. At this tinie rrohlems which R.A.s encounter in their respective living units are disc-ussed and possible solutions offered hy the group or the Dean J,Jimself.. lhree cJistinct functions ~eem to he served here: first. the and that I had better \get I my) ass out e)f here.\ l again asked why nn- fraternitv (fr anv fraterni~v sh.ould ·not he tepre~ented, ··rh~ I >can came up with the reasoning that \I also go to the bathroom qt ):00 in the morning.\ I told him of the irrelevancy of that statement and again l was told to \get (my) ass out of here.\ I immediately aro~e. apologi7ed to the R.A.s (many of whom a1'e my friends) for tabng up their time, stated that it wo11ld he my intent to let the student hody hea-r of· this situation, and t•hen slammed the Hale House Student Lounge door hehind me in utter disgust and outmg~t. My last Hction, l feel, was probably the only seriou~ and childish misrake on my part. My account of the rroceeding~ ca'tl he verified by any R.A. present at tile meeting and hy Dean Wylen. who was also present. · · · . ~ . · , . i•oy h;tsty conclusions. While it is l am ·.told, to the SltUatron Of · this class that ·.will be m in~ependents living in h(msing ;t·frected by the change, it is trntts on Lenox Road, HiJe oJ ·-this 'dais·. ·which has 1\hich is Sigma Chi: I perso11a~ly. · ~omrletel)/ ·e~ped~uced Un · 2. Privacy. 3. The right to live in a crime- free environment. 4. Pr()tectinn against and freedom from bodily harm or threat t~> health. 5. hec:dom from maticinus harassment or persecution. fl. Freedom from blatantly ohsccne or offensive hehavior. meetings enable an R.A. who has encountered a pro.blem too large nr complex for his or her handling alone to make the problem visable and to seek possible solutions to it: second. they allow for a constantly expanding mindfulness among all R.As of problems that they may encounter and the rossibk '(·llutions to them previously attempted hy other R.A.s: and third. it allows for closer personal and social con.tact among R.As, gr·eatly enhancing the chances for expanded dormitory frater- ni?<UiuA. 7. Protec:tion against willful or irresponsible clestruction of personal or commun.ity property. On the basis of a clear charge hy an individual or a group made in writing through the Office of the Dean of Studenb. the Committee \\ill take action in respomc to any violation of or interference with the~e ba,ic right~ and assurances. This action shall he binding unkss and until changed by appeal to the President of the College. The Conduct Committee: Prof. E. F. Gill.ette, Chairman Miss Janet Gregor Prof. D. I. Potter l.eroy Moore, Asst. Dean of Students Don .J. DeCesare '74 Donald B.. teach '76 Patrick R. Wardell '74 Mitchell t. W eisburgh '75 Mark W. Smith, Dean of Students . * * * * To the Editor: The ad hoc committee considering the granting of tenure, to Pmfessor W. Loretta Walker, Head of Reference and Science Lihrary, would appreciate receiving written statements from any students or faculty who believe they can throw some light upon the quality of her work at the library. We are .. sure you realize how important such statements are hoth to Mrs. Walker and to the Colle.ge. Please send your comf)1ents to one of the undersigned. Thank you. Samson Ullmann, chairman Henry Hutzel Erik Hansen Delia Gene Moore * * * * To the Editor: [ 1 ntil last year, R.A.s were limited to dormitories and co-op houses on campus. However,. the jurisdiction of the Resident Ac;!viser Program has expanded to include college-owned huildings in which fraternity men and independents cohabit. Hence, \taxation without representation\ may have been used as the basis for fraternity representation in the R.A. meetings. On Tuesday, November I J, a \special\ R .A. meeting was called. ~ot having received notification of the meeting (which is the usual practice) but· rather \by word of mouth,\ I· was again In attendance, representing the interests of my fraternity. The following account' is not entirely directly quoted, since I do not have the capacity for rememberihi't any conversation word-for-word. At the outset, Dean- Smith remarked !hat, due to the nature of the meeting. fraternity presidents or representatives might not he interested in its content. l immediately asked the Dean why it was that we would not be As I mentioned. was absolutely disgusted and outraged at .this seyuence of events. I was insulted as an individual, I was insulted as a student of Union College, and 1 was insulted as a representative and member of a lraternity. That a Dean of St.udents would blatantly degrade any individual unde-r his jurisdiction is ahsolutely inexcusable. My 4uestions and comments were made with absQIUt·e respect (to which any of those present can attest), and ye,t 1 was dealt with in an ignorant manner, not one at all associated with the level of stature bestowed upon a Dean of a college. We as Union students have the acknowledged right to free expression of opinion and equally lair reciprocal treatment by our college and its administrators and faculty members. The 1973-74 l :nion College Academic Register reads, \The College encourages students to develop their sense of c1v1c concern by the means appropriate to democratic action. In order to preserve and improve the democratic structure of the College itself, it provides through student -f acu lt y-administra lion feel tf1at J would not have oeelil an present tri-mestef.· Sure it unriecessa.r-y burden· upon the nice t·o watch eve'rybody leave t Dean and his R.A.s and ir:~ t!Jis September or perhaps even thr particular situation I may have< end of August ltrwwing that you heen of infinitely lJ10re help than still had three weeks of vacation tlie Sigma. Chi R.A. him~>ej.f. ,First hut i't is not so nice in the Spring of all, as I mentioned before, I when everyone else is finished h1 have been an R.A. once hefor.e, in t•he end of May and you still ha\-e addition to having some source of two weeks of school, TaHng i-nowledge concerning the finals when ·it is xoo is not m1 fortune~ or p.IighHi of idea:offun.Aiso,l~eenousei;l independents I(ving~in Sigh1a Chi. ·having four weeks of vacation f'or Second, with regards .to the effort Christmas. If the reason for thh and effectiveness of the R.A. in long vacation is that you can Sigma Chi presently, I tefer to a \\ork during Christmas break eo m men t made hy o l1 e wowldn't it he better to start indepe.ndent living here, who earlier on a better paying fall time ql:lestioned another R.A. on the joh in the summer than to have a duties and responsibilities of part time job in the Winter. Man~ R.A.s since he h1:1s almost never people feel that if a term is split seen his and didn't know who he they wi(J he loaded· with work ~\as. ··It is also a fact that, if questioned, nearly half of the indepelldents living in Sigma Chi (all freshmen) have seen their R.A. no more than one time since the heginning of !ht· term. Finally. if it was indeed true that the meeting was open only to the Dean, his assistant, and the funded members of the R.A. grbup, why was Herbert Wylen, Assistant Dea'n of the College, and completely removed from the Resident ·Adviser Program, during the vacation. I have a rmmher of· frie.nds who n<l\1 a·ttend scnools on the spli>t-thret• ~chedule and have fo.und that the~ have little or no work during their break. I .am sur.t\ that the professors at Union are not out to ruin everybody's vacation. The question of gea.ing a summct joh has been constantly breught up in favor of the proposal and is a \a lid point, even if it is. not ~!'In much a question of getting a Job hut as to what type of summer jobs are still available by m.i'd- allowed to remain'! /\side from claiming not to he a trouble-maker, f a'lso claim to he ·-one not content to sit idly by !Jnd be insulted as an individual, as a student of this college, or as a fraternity memher and representative, while an administrator o( our college attempts to exert 'his personal will over the entire college community in the name ·of \changing and bringing Union together again.\ !'he Dean himself has pledged his June. · 1\ lthough I arn definitely in · favor of the calandar change, I am not asking that· ever:-'hody agree with me· after reading th i~ letter hut stop and consider this y·uestion carefully and agree with themselves. Respectfully, Bob Henkel '76 ~~,... .... ~., ~ . . ~ '! Coqrse fequests f<lr winter ~~ j \ teim: .. pre-;r~gi~trl!<tit~n. are due ~~ in the Office of the Registrar, ~' Room 2, Ad ministration ~~ ~ +. Bu_ ilding, no later than , .. ' ~ ~ :\ov.ember 21st.. '1\- ~ After the due date, a ten ~~ f, dollar ($1 0) late fee will be \ ... \~ assessed. ~~ ·committees hoth a guarantee of due process and rich opportunity for collective study and action.\ ( p. 29). While at ll nion, since the fall of 1971, I have been a representative to the then..:Student Senate. have run for Vice- President of !lie Student Body, efforts to these goals, and to eliminate those forces whic;:h pull !Inion apah. It appears then that the issue runs much deeper than a sil'lgle incident · on a Tuesday l'\ ening. It hrings into focus the fact that we have irt the person of Mark Smith, Dean of Students, an individual bent on '\doing things my way'' and not doing things to necessarily benefit the college community which he ts supposed to serve. ·The •oean might consider achieving his avowed goals. by starting with a long and- honest look in the mirror and realizing' that \his way\ may not be the only way or ! ~ Students • are urged to ~~ promptly secure and return ~~ ,., registration materials. Those ~' ~~ who do not plan-to return 1o ~~ ~~ l'nion for tbe . winter term, 5} ~~ l'Xcept for graduating seniors, i ~' ~hould also report and give ~~ notice of their plans. , \ ~ ~ ~~ Often. letters are written to publications in the heat of a situation, providing for their inaccuracy and (sometimes) exaggeration. While 1 openly admit that I write after having harely taken time to pull off my coat, it occurs to me that the urgency of my message warrants as quick a recall of the immediate situation as possible. The situation is one which, on the surface. affects only a small and favored number, hut deep inside this college's fiber affects all of us as members of the Union College community. · · in\terested. He replied hy saying that the· message to he conveyed concerned the Resident Adviser system. I made the point that, this being the first year our fraternity had housed an R.A. that our brotherhood would he extremely interested in anything relating to the program itself. It was at this point that. he informed me, and all the R.A.s, that the meeting was \closed.\ I asked him why it was closed and to whom it was closed. He said it was open only to funded members of the R.A program, funded just as his own staff is funded, and that the topics to be discussed dealt with particular R.A.s and their contacts with the Dean and other R.A.s. I pointed out that nowhere in the blue notice printed hy the Housing Office was there mention of the word (or implication of the word) \closed.\ have run for Class of 1975 rerresentative to the Steering Committee, have been a member .of the Student iax Committee. have heen Secretary of the Sigma Chi f:'raternity. and have lettered in swimming. In addition, I have a I so served as a Resident Adviser and therefore have some idea of how the R.A. program works (or fails to work). the right way. _ [~:~,.;..t\~~.. In closing, I urge response to me, to f'oncordiensis, to your Steering Committee and All- r-------- ..... ---· College Senate representatives, to I SNAPPy·· I lhe Resident Adviser program at Union is a controversial one. The process by which R.A.'s are chosen should come under closer investigation by the Steering Committee, which represents those students most directly affected by the program itself. But this issue is related to but clearly separate from my point. I also inquired as to whether topics dealing with such personal matters as contacts with the Dean could perhaps be better served in rersonal meetings with each R.A. rather .thun in front of an entire group of ones peers. Not having a suitahle answer to any of my yuestions {presumably). the Dean First said that I \had a hell of a lot to learn.\ and closed hy sa·ying · again that the meeting was closed Currently. the R.A. program mcludes bi-weekly meetings of all R.A.'s and their Dean of Students and his As~istant in Charge of Housing. The~e meetings have heen opent,;d. hy choice of the Dean and hi:, R.A.'s, to \;:;.;:;,,:::.:::::::;:;;:::······••::::;.,:;:;:•:=:::•:::•::::, •. : •. : •• :::;;:,:: .. ·.·.·:·.·:·:·:···:.·.·.;.;.;.;.;.;.; •.• ;:·.·:·:·.·:·:···:·:·:·:·:·:···:·:·:·:·:·:··::·::.;.·.;.;.·.; •. ;.;c.; •. ; ••. ;.;;.;.;·.,.; ••. ;:.;:;.;.;:::;.;:;:;;.·.;.; Maurice ··ij:·· .... ·G·~·~·;;·I;\·~·;t\·.·.-~ \·s·~·~·.~ .......... ·.·.·fr:rf • For thr~'f' G«·rwrat ion~o.' ~ U)i!'• Ja .•. ··H. • I ':: I! ,.,_ '. \ · .. ' .. ·. \nu t\'\'l lt-1\c:r. k .. \' :r . HER~HE£.. MALP.!CE 8 WALTER I am not a trouble-maker and my record proves that I am wncerned about the student life at lJ nion and the school's reputation elsewhere. My fraternity's concern about the R.A. program and my past association with same were the reasons 1 felt entitled to remain at the meeting. Insofar as the content ·of the meeting not falling \\ ithin the interests of fraternity representation. my conversations with several R.A.s in attendance proves this position absolutelY false. Topics discussed dealt with the effectiveness of the R./\. program in general and how it could he improved. There was ·rurticular reference. at one point. your pmfessors, and to the Dean I 1 of Students directly in order that J 1 we may return the now of efforts .MEN'S SHOP I hack along the mainstream of the I . · .. · . .I Interests of the ~'ollege · community and not the desires of I TO UNION MEN: I . nne man. Sincerely, I Thomas R. Burbank '75 5 ~· J To the Editor: .·. ·0.. I !\t this time it looks as though I the proposed calandar change will Discount With TIJis Ad I he defeated. I feel that one of the I reasons for this neg!!tive attitude \Schenectady's 1 is the fact that many students are Largest Men's Store\ 1 not taking the ti·me to seriously •. Hrs. 9:30 .. 5:00 1 consider all of the aspects of the I Th. 9-9:30 J proposaL This is not something . . 1 on which vour opinion should be I 334 STA_TE ST_. 1 ~ ------~------· hased on how your roommate or ~our best friend feels. but ~ o meth i ng 1 hat each student ,t:l'COQ-Qo::Joi=-::>::x:-e:-::-::-c:~ LUIGI'S PETER PAUSE RESTAURANT Italian Restaurant BARRETT ST. 016-9744. I liStudent Discoun(',, Mon.~Sat. 5:30-7:30 535NOTT ST. ·~=-=-c. Q.Q ==-==-= ~ Can What Can y( to be a I kne\\ 1 fine si: interpa before knew wouldr Yes, Becaus and I r I lean learnec ·in my on d stTeets, dear P• to be : from. strollin Thase the he! for loo wrong eration p tor Congr !\nnu; have 1 Pan-r' develc affain De leg In wh held, people as we have. AI !\mba A mba Natio Tanza the Indep .. Cape princi Thi Rece~ from West natj<H Natio lnde !UNI event Wald 50th !\nnu acto · Comt Cong revoh the 1 · Newi Tic $.15.0' used of the as w' toritr effort dona1 to P1 Th spom the r leave: Com1 1973. Alba in for .1420

CONCORD[ENSJS, Friday, Nrwemher 9. 1973. --------~~----~----~- Pa~e3 . Opinion: Martin Speaks on Sports Split Calendar Several of. the bad aspects of the prop~1sed new calendar have 1 et to be ·brought out. A ~omprehensivc view of all bf th.e dt:taHs of ~he calendar make It undesirable when compared to lhe present calendar. ad\ antage of the new calendar is better alignment with the Consortium Colleges. I xamination of the calendars of nearb\' colleges shows that the onlv ~av for Union College to improve- its alignment with these colleges is to go to a two semester llnder the proposed Split-J ~\stem. The new calendar would calendar we will start the fa fl. term ,iiii fore~ Union students taking a at the verv beginning of course at a Consortium College to September. ln .this way we lose 2 attend classes through both the 1, weeks of working time when lhanksgiving and Spring n;m;t temporary summer johs are \acations. It should also he noted available because every(me else that the number of students at has gone hack to school. This is tlnion that take part in the :tlso some of the best vacation Consortium is very sma<Il, mainly lime of the summer. '\as the result of trafls'pnrtation and .fhc fall term will em! at tlailv scheduling problems. 1 hanksgiving and a l Y. to 2 1 /c If one examines the new '\ eek vacation will he necessary to ca.lendar C<\ refullv, the majority - -·allow time for the Registrar to of the student h~dv is forced to prepare for the winter terin. A oi~e tm manv of the-advantages of i\eek and a half vacation at this ~1e o.Id caiendar for just two time is a worthless intermediate 11eeks at the beginning of summer hetween the summer and winter \acation. It is simply not worth ·,easmis. It's also much too short a it!! time for a studL'nt to travel a long I et us all convey our opm1ons distance home~ or wherever he ~)r to our student representives and she might wish to spend this make sure a complete student (This is ·the concluding article of an examination of t:nion's relationsllip wit}l the Nen England Small ( 1 ollege Athletic Conference) I >espite several incongruencies in Union's athletic philosophy, President Harold Martin ~tands tirm on acceptance of the l'iew rngland Small College Athletic Conference. In an interview last week. Martin defended Union's participation in N ESCA.c but ~tated that he would contmue to lobby for changes In the agreement. Concerning academic control of athletic policy. Martin stressed the need of the administration and faculty to balance special athletic i~terests. \There are instances of actual corruption of the admissions and scholarship processes, as well as pressure p~t on academic teachers .• \ Martin stated. \These problems are minor m New England hut common in major colleges,\ he by DON KRONE addt•d in defense ol academic oversight. Prc~ident Martin recogni1es tln:. non~acc~ptancc of athletic director recommendations in the past . but kels the Presiden.t':, I' x~Jcuti \ e Committee and the ·\D\ of the conference sthoob mav be moving in the right dir~ction. ''It was onlv last vcar that the pTesidents hav-e been. meeting with the athletic directors. The two group~ are moving much ~los~r together. I don't think that 11 will he a ~eriom problem.\ One of the ignored AD rL'commendation~ was the actual name of the conference. President :\1artin wa:, not distressed with l'nion's association with a league named ~ew E'ngland. \It's a little uncomfortable. for 1· nion and Hamilton, hut it doesn't do us any harm\ the affable administrator claimed. J\1 art in d'ffered three reasons lor practice restrictions infringement oH academic work. 1 a cation period. rcfe~ndum is held on the issue. !he winter term would start Tom Matthews '75 Decemher 2nd and run for three Torn Baca '75 B·LITHE-R . \ . . we~ks ending• just four days Heien I(t!Rpjcott '76 hefore Christmas. We would * * * * supposedly have the \guanmtee\ Department of Physical rhat no professor would make a rducation Co-Ed Course paper due or give a fest during the Offerings for the Winter Term as first week hack from vacation. follows: !\his is e4uivale.nt to the present Keep Fit instructor, Mrs. Janet \'guarantee\ that .no exams can he Weick. Ar.i opportunity to given in the •l Oth week of classes. devel(lp and, or maintain the sii.m Many people have had the line. Exercises set to music. experience of feeling obligated to Mondays and Thursdays 12:30- take \optional\ tests in the lOth 1:30 p.m. Wrestling Room. 1\cck to improve their grades. The Handball Coach Allison. idea that no professor would give 1-undamentals of play, strategy, an exam in the fourth week of rules, actual play. For heginners classes i~ far more absurd. Most and intermediates. Mondays and ~rofesst~rs. esp~ci~llly !n Science, Wednesdays 2:30 p.m. gym. hnd thi!i _restnctlon. ':!11~ 1 I~rahl~. . .PaddlebaJI. ,_c.:o.<wbing. $taft. .\-1>,;'.h~tih@!F--~'·#ris, ·uhd:erstarn:d'Jng--:·.:s· -- It;:;T~~~ ·fundamentals, strategy, spccifi~;?d or not, ma~y have said .. ~:ourt play. Beginners· and 11atly that th~y wtll pay no i nterme:diate Tuesdays and attention to It. ~11 students ihursdavs, 2;30 p.m. Gym. sht1uld serious!~ consider whether \'olleyball Coach Allison. <H ~ot they W!~h to s~udy ~lver Rules. fundamentals, \ drills, Chrzstmas vacatwn. It Is o?v1ous ~trategy and play. Beginners of (hut students as well as . faculty power volleyball. Tuesdays and 1\ ould no longer he lree of fhursdavs 2:30p.m. Fit:ld House. academic concerns over Baaminton Coach Knull. Rules ( 'hris!inas vacation. ~or many t~e and . fund.;~ mentals of play Ci.rst three weeks ol clas.ses .w1ll Mondavs and Wednesdays I :30 also . h~ a \'(aste ol time.. p.m. Field House. cons1~ermg ~~~ am<J.ll nt ol Water Safety Instructors, Part n'l<tlerta.r that w11l _?c .torgotten 1. Coach Magee. Red Cross over vacati<m. 1 he shorter Course. Mondays and Thursdays 1acation period would again 1:30-2:45 p.m. Gym Pool. m:tke It impractical for students Basketball Coach Scanlon, to travel long distances on l-undal11entals. drills. ru Ies. play, \ acation, or just home. The 1 uesdays and Thursdays 2:30 rnesent calendar with a 4 week p.m. Field House. break, is much more conducive to Skiing West Mountain, Glens travel. The new Split-3 calendar 1-alls. N.Y. Ask for separate sheet a I so eliminates the opportunity of for details. getting 11 job over 'Christmas Sign up at registration time at \ acation that a ·lot of students the Physical Education Booth. l1are utilized. The split term idea Classes begin 2nd week of term. will make it impossible for (Inion College Department of 'tudents spending a term abroad Phvsical Education, B£tsic Ski t<~ en,·ov~ the holidays with their · 197, 74 A - Instruction for _,_ . ( lamiiies. For people who minimum of 25 students is needed appreciate a long vacation in the for this program). skiing season. t.his will no lnnger Place: West Mountain. Glens he the case, Your vacation time Falls. N.Y. West Mountain Road. ,, ill be transferred ·to II · Hours: 7 p.m. to ·· p.m. Th;mk~glving! 1 uesday, beginning, January 15, Spring vacation at the end of 19 74-. the winter term ·hits another Lessons: 1 ~ hours duration per inopportune time. We're to he \\ eek for 5 weeks (followed by 21!;. thrilled that we have 2 to 2 1/2 hrs. free skiing) Headway Meth<'>d \eek s ;of vacation · when most taught. r cople would be content with the r • !\ '1 b'l t Rental c.qmpme,nt: vat a e a llSllalJ IJ2 Weeks. SO that summer ski area. Bus Service provided: Leaving from West College parking lot time. 5:45 p.m. Costs: Lift fee $2.25, Lesson fee S2.25, Rental fee $2.25 (skis. hoots, poles), Bus fee $3.00. Lift, Rental and Lesson fees for the season will he payable luesday, January 15th at the ski area (Total: $33. 75) !'iON-REFlfNDABLE: Bus fee payable at the time of sign up. for the program. Sign up deadline: hidav, January ll. 1974 in the Department of Physical Education Office (Total: $15.00) * * * * \\\\\· . -~-\.n~~ne interested in taking an lnverieorate Biology course this Spri:ng. Term should sign the lists posted in the Biolngy Department (3rd floor). The course will only he given if enough interest is shown; so please sign up soon .. * * * * Law school admission review (,'ourse: Evening classes· at College of St. Rose. For information contact: Joseph Urso. 42 :\orwood. Ave., Albany. N.Y. l220X. 489-1254. * * * * The Economics Department announces a lecture and discussion on The Economics and Politics of the Energy Crisis h)' Mr. Joseph C. Swidler. Chairman of the New York State Public Service Commission, on :\ovembe~ 29 (Thursday) from 1 :30 to 3:00 p.m. AU are invited to attend Room SS 115. * * Au Pair' for Private room campus. Two Call 370-3099. * * * * terms II and Ill. and hath near preschool boys. * * The hawdv, brawling, and huxom Tartuffe, by Moliere. will be presented hy the Mountebanks in the middle of February. TRYol:Ts wiii he held in the :\ott Memorial Theater Nov. 26 and 27 from 2:30 to s:oo and !rom 7:30 to 11:00 p.m. Sign up -;heets are now available in the (ireen Room of -the theater. In addition · to Tartuff(.', the \a cation would come a little mtlicr. Again this 1 acation falls hctwcen the winter and summer 1 :lcation seasons. and is har·dly Inn~ enough for distant'travcl. \'WHEN YOU'RE SMALL YOU ~lAVE TO BE GOOD\ \ proposed ad\ ant age nf' .the nell calendar is that it will give m t\~O extra weeks in June to secure a sunimer jnh. Most people \\ ho l!et. summer j(~h~ secure them l'ld(Hl' school ~nds. i\Jt extra tV.<l '' ecks gi\ es little advantage when \.ou compete with schools that get ;1ut in the beginning to middle of 'v1ay. '> t i II a n (·) t he r p r o,p o ~ L' d ''\.\¢ ·'' . ~~\tS ~~ · Pizzeria 783 ALBANY ST. ·\ ........... __ -- ·- ' We Deliver Until Midnight- Call374~5600 -- Mountebanks will also he rresenting The Cave Dwellers hy William Sarovan, to be directed hv Bernard C~rey. and The Boor, h~· Anton Chekrov to he directed h~· .lav Kohn. Tryouts for these piays ~ill be held next tern:. * * * * Did vou know: The equipment cage i~ the Gym basement has hasketballs. racquets and halls. handball gloves and halls, lacrosse sticks, and other types of e4uipment which you may borrow for a time during the day? •\II vou need do is show up '' ith v·our I. D. card. A sjmilar e4uipment cage will he established off the main floor of the Fieldhouse for ,the second if. - - - term. .... ..... ~,.~A> ~ -~~ ... ~ 1oo' * * * !he P.olitLo-al Forum is presenting a· -second panel discussion dealing with the crucial events related to Watergate. titled Watergate II. a distinguished panel of professors \\ill talk about the Watergate affair: its issues and implications. I he panel will consist of Pmfessor Hartwig on public opinion. Professor: Tidmarch talking on congressional reactions, Professor Gati on in~ernational implicati?ns ~nd Professor Jonas discussmg impeachment. This discussion will he held Mondav, Nov. 19 at 4:30 p.m. in social s~ience 0 In. For an interesting 'afternoon and for ~ o m e g o o d h a c k g r o u_n d information before William R uckleshaus addresses Union College. stop hy and listen. tl\ eremphasis on inter-t:ollegiatc at:tivitv. and cost \H'I't' given in ddens~ of the date~ e-,tahli:,hed lor start of practice' \The date~ 1\LTe decided hy consultation with the coaches.\ he said \(nst was :t major factor in tf1l· final det~rmination. l\specialh for loothall,\ Martin addnl I he llninn loothall program costs $90.000 per year. with a gate return in the range of $_1.{.)00- <;;7.000. Mart in explained that \\ith an impending deficit m next \ear's budget. fin- ol l :nion\ ~·Ieven interco.llegiate sport~ ma) he dropped. However. he failed to mention the specific 'ports that \\ere heing considered. \1artin ~a-- ortimistic on the issue or 'cheduli.ng and nwferent.•e ~tanding,. ··rhe scheduling decision w:t\ the result of histon. \\e had long commitmen-ts that haJ to be maintained.\ he l·nmmented. \! \>ould project a stagc-h~ -stag, increase in scheduling. it will just take some time It• adju~t.\ Meanwhile. the lame dud rresident disagrees with thl' :\ ESCAC rule on refusal to allo\\ league standing!>. \My own feeling is that it would do no harm. But. some presidents are uptight about it:' . he stated. Taking an adamant stand on careful observation of athletic~. Martin was in complete consent with the stringent rules of :\ESC A C. \You can't even trust your own school,\ Mart in hesitantly stated. \Although we haven't had any problems at Union, things haw notten out of hand in other ~chools. It's one of the thing~ most of us (the presidents) feel str(lngly about.\ I he President was less glih \\hen asked to respond to a lJUestion about the favoring ul Division II hockey schoo Is in post-~eason competition 1n formulating the agreement. H,· stated that, \It was understood at the time.\ President Martin feels that there is a great potential for changes in the rules, hut does not expect immediate results. One of the acrimoniou~ issues among the conference schoob I> freshmen e.ligibility. Martm ~tated. \I will continue to argue the logic used prohibiting freshmen from varsity sports.\ However. he revealed that the probability of changing the polic~ this year is slim. jisABiLU·s ·~ F & H Pharm~u:y 527 UNION ST. Plume 370..2300

i P_age 4 CONCORD/ENSIS, Friday, November 9, 1973 ~~~~----------------------------~~--------~~~~~--~-~--:-.~~--~-~-~-~-~-·.~-~-~-~~--~·~-~-~~~~~-~----~~.----~.~~--~·~th:e~ir~-~re:s:p,:ec:t~iv:e~ch~a~m~p;i~o;n:h~hip~. BLITHE&' Fros·h. · · Rtram-u·ra · ru:fng~~~:~ue!~r~~~\h/~~: last year.· a harsh rule will be The results of the last Student- Faculty Bridge Club tournament were: First .place: P. Chansky and T. Hartman. Second plac~: P. Millman and J. Mills. Third place: R. Strassman and S. Gullans. The next meeting will be at the beginning of the winter term. Check Concordy for time and date. * * * * Ad hoc committees have been established for the purposes of making recommendations on continuing tenure for Professor Byron A. Nichols of the Department of Poli!ical Science, Professor Thomas R. Kershner of the Department of Economics, Professor Robert V. Wells of the Department of History, ancl Professor Loretta W. Walker in the Library. All members of the College community who may have useful inputs which will assist the c0mmittees in arriving at their recommendations are urged to make them in writing to Professor William B. Bristol of the Department of History, Chairman of the Nichols ad hoc committee, Professor Edwin F. Gillette of the Department of Mathematics, Chairman of the Kershner ltd hoc committee, Professor Frank Gado of the Department of English, Chairman of the Wells ad hoc committee, and Professor Samson O.A. Ullmann of the Department of English, Chairman of the committee on Mrs. Walker. * * * * Students free transportation. Drive a U-Haul truck o'neway from Albany or Schenectady to New York City or Long Island, Must be able to drive standard transmission, have valid drivers license. We pay aU gas and tolls. For further information call the U-Haul Company. Weekdays, except Saturday, between 8 a.m. and 4 p.m. 356-1200 or 356-1264. * * * * All those interested in participati-ng in the Union College Hockey Club th.is winter should contact either Don Ward at 372- 9759 or David Sanderson at 346- 9330 anytime before Christmas,· * * * * There will be a meeting of all Arts majors and Arts Faculty on Monday, Nov. 19th, at 4:3() p.m. in Room I 04 of the Arts Building. F .. 00 . t·b.a.l·.·l by RICHARD B. THAU implemented subjecting any team The intramural basketball that fai'is ~o appear for its program, which in fhe past has scheduled game .to possible been caiied a failure by its most ejection fron) tlfe progra.m. The by JON SARGENT a-rdent supporters. and a \heinous mistakes of last year's intramurals In the season's final game cdme a,gainst society\ by its have been looked into and Friday, the Freshman Football opponents, will be back this year corrected. P~ovided. that the team lost to Rochester, 13-lO. after a major off-seasonoverfia:~;ll. student body still wants The loss dropped the season's Indefatigable work by the intramurals, this year the record to 2-3. Committee on Athletics, and pr.ogratn will- be there. a:s long as Union led throughoHt thegame unique determination and the participants show a desire to as a Tesult of a Carl Walker dec;lication by Coaches R. Bruce make it work touchdown run and a 35 yard Allison and Art Lawrence to see Plans for an initiation of field goal by Rick NaHe. The the pr0gram. succeed, will intramura'is have been tentatively possibility for a winning season transform last year's travesty into scheduled for the first Wednesday seemed very bright until a blocked a viable .project. Gone will ~e the .after the winter recess. In addition punt was turned into a Rochester plethora of forfeits- and games to basketball, there will be field goal, and a 13-10 Union loss. _ with missing referees. Standings programs in badm:inton and Discounting the fact that the will be recorded and a weekly v oileybaH. In or,d·et for season ended under .500, at 2\3 column in Concordiensh, intramurals to get off the ground, there was a definite improvement complete with scores and game it is 'requested that all team in the team as the season summaries, will be dedicated to rosters, complete with captains progressed. From the mistake- the program. and te'lephone numbers, be filled earlier season games, the Now that 'tartan 'furf has been submitted to Coach Lawrence in team progressed to an improved installed in the Pieldhouse, twice the gym before we leave for the and exciting football team. as many games as last ye~r can be * * * * ·Anyone interested in organizing a Student Public Interest Action Group (P.LR.G,) here come to SSliS at 4:30 on Monday, Nov. 19th. If unable to attend, call Henry Clay at 372-6231 or Robert Ruggeri at\393-8587. I played. This could ·mean~ that as many .as ten to twelve games will be scheduled in addition to the playoffs. Yes, playoffs. Believe it nor not there will be playoffs at the end of the season, with the top teams in both the fraternity and dorm leagues competing for .... • CONCORDIENSJS •. . {\0\'1C'ORDJF~S1S I~ publbh1d e\tr) F.-ld'!' dutillll: th~ ~chuol ll:llf e,_eep! dufln·R e:o;ifu!natllln and ·v.Ra~llq~. pr!IVd\ b) the '>ludrnt bud~ .ur_ l nlrm C'oll_eir. Sehcnftl•dr. N:\'.' N•tlon~l >\d,ertldnJi· Rc)irtsen1Q1iU: \'iath:m•l Ell~e.ilrlnll .\d.trr1lVna Wnkt. Jm .. .,, (. ~.llilnd•l orne~: ·lhlrd ft{)dr C' ' • ' ' ()fficc: The Jt\hh Wmjd \mw .,·ork, lllOT C3.:.1ti-l.lS6t. Office u Second (!an 'hll 'latin 10 doll~~ ~ei JU.r llfll~i!nd·lin,,.,..llerc In . ' lle!!d!lnr filr.alicop~ •• ,.IJh:lr mu1t bt l\1!~.1> .-. ... p P<H BU. I> SP.U 1-1). is 7 p.!Jl. on T!Jun;~•t Mf l,he- (\01-;( OIU>I•:.'iSIS orJlcC,IIlCIIItd un IIJitd flllUI c-~nfc~:,ie. FOR Al:l. EOITQRJ,\1. M.\TTE-:R!>o, (,\JJ: Tllf. UlllOR-1:\-tUIH >\T J7b-6126. FOR IN..ORM.\.TIO~. ('.\.(I MR\ \1·\ltR<\ I' HU ~T1'DF.Nt .\Cti\'ITit:.S OFI'J(,f AT ,\!lQ-6118. ONCE A KNIGHT WAS ADVISED BY HIS F'RIEND AND ROOMMATE, A DRAGON, THAT THE PURSUIT OF ACADeMICS MIGHT NOT 13E BEST SUITED TO ONE OF SO ARTISTIC A TEMPERAMENT 1 AND THAT THE KNIGHT COULD BEST ACHIEVE fHE GREATNESS THAT WAS HIS DESTINY BY PURSUING A COURSE IN FII..M MAKINo. THE KNIGHT DID SEE THE WISDOM OF THE DRA60N'$ ADVICE AND DID REGISTER FOR THE. COURSE AND COMMENCE WITH STUDIOUS PREPARATIONS. WHICH PREPARATIONS WERE SOON INTERRUPTED BY REVERIES OF CINEMATICGCELEBRIJY. HE DREAMED HIMSELF DIRECTit-.IG ~ CAST OF THOUSANDS IN A CINEMASCOPE RENDITION OF THE LIF~ OF IMMANUEL KANT. OR ENGAGED IN A FILMIC HIGH NOON SHOWDOWN WITH DIRTY JOHN, IGNOBLE VILLAIN OF A FILW\ 6ASED ON A THIRD-RATE JOI<E CALtED ''THAT'S DIRTY JOHN'S GIRL_/' YOU SEE, SCHAEFER COMES ON CRISP AND BRIGHT, BEER AFTER BEER. WITH FLAVOR THAT NEVER FADES. AND THAT'S WHY SCHAE!=ER IS THE ONE BEER Tb HAVE WHEN yOU'RE HAVING MORE THAN ONE. TAKE IT FROM YOUR OLD BUDDY. OR, PINNACLE OF Pfi\INACLES, APPEARING AS AN URBANE. SPOKESMAN IN A GENUINE SCHAEFER. BEER COMMERCIAL. BUT, ALAS, HE WAS CAI..LED BACK FROM HIS REVERIE5 1 AND WA5 GIVEN BY HIS INSTRUCTOR HIS FIRST ASSIGNMENT: HE WOULD, OH,JOY, BE SPECIAL-EFFECT9 MAN FOR A DOCUMENTARY FILM TEt.ITATIVELY TITLED 11 THE MATING HABITS OF THE CliFF PIGEON.\ Schaefer Breweries, New York, N.Y;, Baltimore, Md.,.lehigh Yillley, Pa. 1/ {1, I N b T sta11 Col day 1\80· ·Pre: cho first an: his Jac aris out 178 und carr 11 by pro for sep: at c wa~ exc the I Tuc to c of des ori1 C'o abE fun its fou but ' l pre pre Po Po wa pre cer fas sty 1 wa dec Nc the sta fro do ne' me qu thi Ur Ta frc no mi we n (Y the

thi~ the you Spring h1 ill ha~~, Takf.ng m~ in ion !'or thh can 'break. start timl' have :t , Mam split work ave :t n·o\\ the:-. thl'ir the .to The joh up in is a ~~.o a ioh rrti'd- .Y in I th i~ this with '76 I I I I I I I 2 N The Union College Black Student's Alliance Newspaper Vol. o. l November 9. 1973 _ A Di.stant Voice Can you tell me wha:t it is? What it means·? To be a man? Can you tell file what it means, is to be a man? I know, and .I knew. I knew long before J looked at a 'fine sister and felt those strange interpal stirrings. I learned long before my father's funeral artd knew that the tears shouldn't, wouldn't show. Yes, I learned what a man was. Becal!se I was Black and young, and I played in those hard streets, I learned what 'man' means. I learned how to be proud, because in my almost-ragged clothes out on ~hose cold, P!VIadelphia streets, pride was one of my few, dear possessions. And a man has to be proud. I was taught pride from . those cool, processed; strollin' and steppin' brothers. Those brothers who would beat the hell out of their closest friends for looking at, or talking to, the wrong sisters. You know, a gen- eration-to-generation thing. Pan-Afrikan Reception And cool, I knew h,ow to be cool. A rnan had to be cool. Walk right to be cool, talk right to be cool, and laugh right (never giggle) to be cooL Just had to be cool. Cool to still those internal screamings and horrors that might -make you do or say something un-cool. Uh~huh, that's why. Yes, but don't laugh because I alinost learned that lesson too late. Hard. Thought cool meant you were ha.rd - and a man had to be hard. Hard on his woman, hard on hisself, hard on his people and {wait till I get home) hard on white people. Hard because of the times, and hard because he had a hard way to go. A man had to be hard. · · Yeah... I was a man and I was cool and proud and hard·. But I wasn't Black. Living in those cold, Black streets - I wasn't Black. I didn't become Black until I learned why my people had to be cool, and proud, and hard, or great basketball players, or great singers, or cooks, or servants. I wasn't Black until I saw I knew I learned that. But I learned it young, and I learned it ·before coming to Union. Carne to Union young and gifted and Black (almost militant) and thought/ knew I was a man. owners. tsut not . oecause you knew mt,!. You told me ·I had to prove myself just because ... Just because I was Black and proud and striving to be freeee ... And then I confronted you.· Your eyes·· crinkled and you started grinnin' and you tried to converse with me. Hoping 1 wouldn't, and daring me not to, notice. But how could 1 not notice? Did you really believe because I had a Black skin and mind that I was only a fool, a singer, a servant? But I am angry. You say, he's cryipg because someone called him. a name. Not a man. He's a child, not a man. But I am angered. Angered because of what I feel and what I hav\e learned. I feel the frustrations of those brothers and sisters. All those brothers and sisters living on those same cold, hard, Philadelphia streets I learned about manhood in. They'll grow old there, and all they'll have is a cool walk and a hard way to go. And they'll learn/see/know that they are prisoners, that they can't escape, that it shouldn't be. Unless they want to be football players or cooks. But I learned something else about manhood. Wnen all you have is pride, and cool-ness. You don't let anyone take any of it from you. You beat the one who makes you un-cool, and you destroy the one who tries to take Bro. Greg Free/on. who directs as well as pe~forms in \No Place to be Somebody,\ a pla_v hy Bro. Charles Gordone. The play is at the Nott T!uatre and the final pe~{o11mances will he Nov.15 and 16. · tor the past 3 years the But·the white man. and his white- Congress of Afrikan Peoples like colleague, told me Annual Delegates Receptions something. Told me I wasn't as have been high points -of concrete good as the regular students. Told Pan-Afrika!\ political and social me I wasn't ready, that I had to development. At each of these prove I was a good student, affairs, together with the Afrikan ready, a man to the son of slave Delegates to the United Nations your pride. And you, white man, =·=·=·=·=·=· have tried to take the pride of a. · !i!i!Ni nation of Black people~ i~~~imt !1111111111· Nobody Place In whose honor the Reception is held, a diverse group of Black people-in the U. S., West Indies, as well as the Afr.i_kan continent have attended. I Black Arts At last. year's Reception. This Year Commemorated the Ambassador Salim Ahmed Salim, Third Annual Black Arts Festival Ambassador to the United held in Albany. The Sponsors of Nations from the. Republic of the Festival were Mars Hill and Tanzania, and Gil F~rnandes of Ms. Deloris Brown. The two have the Afrikan Party for the been instrumental in bringing Independence of Guinea and Black Community related .. Cape Verde {PAIGC) were the Cultural events to this area for a principal spel!kers. number of years. Bro. Hill has This year the Delegates been the head of the Black Reception will feature speakers 'Ensemble Experience Troupe from the Republic of Guinea in since its inception five yeats ago. West Afrika, the East Afrikan This year's festival continued nation of Somali, and from the on the vein of bringing Black Arts National Union for the Total to the community for the lndepend.ence of Angola enrichment and enjoyment of the (UNITA~. The November 23rd people of the community. event w1H ta~e place at the· The first night (Thursday, Waldorf Astona (Park Ave: and October 25) started the festival off 50th St.) Also f.eatured will. be with plays by Yusef Imani's Annual Master .of Ceremon~es, Weusi Kuurnba troupe. The . a.c tor . ? S s •. e . . . D a v 1 s • actors are professionals from New Commumcat10ns. Mmtster of the York City and proved to be every C'ongre~s of Afnkan People and bit as po!litive as the festival itself. revolutionary poet Don_ L. Lee, On Friday night, the Burundi the Arthur Hall Dancers, and · NewArk's Malaika Singers. Dancers (SUNY A) performed like the very good group that they are. They thrilled the audience with five dances from West and South Africa. The coordinator of that group is Sis. Moye Cooper and the dance announcer was Bro. Cleveland Little. After the .dancers performed there were plays by Mars Hill, performed by . independent actors, also out of New York City. On Saturday there were bazaars, talent shows, and of course, a dance with music by \Sound System.\ On Sunday, c.hoirs from Philadelphia (The Victory Choral Ensemble) and local areas perfo.rmed for the final day of festivities. It was a. very Black occasion and the audience seemed to have enjoyed it completely. All praises to Mars nnd all the other Bros. and Sisters who made the festival possible. Tickets for the Reception are $15.00 each and receipts Will be used to support the ongoing work . of the Congress of Afrikan People ·· as well as making a substantial contribution to the liberation · · efforts of UN IT A. Last year a donation of $1 ,000 was presented PERSONNEL to PAIGC The Afrikan Council is sponsoring a bus free of charge to the reception in New York: Bus leaves in front of Arbor Hill Communitv center. November 23. 1973, at 3:00p.m., SO·'Lark Street, Albany, N. Y, For any information ca'll Daliht at 372~ ) :1420 or 393-R311. Saba Araya, Marilyn Becton, Sa\ama Horns, Stephen Lew.is. RQger McDonald, T. Watts, Editor, 1301 Lenox Rd .• Sch'dy, N;Y. 12308. ('ommunity Personnel: Kris l'p~hur, 377..0173, James Houston, 372·l585. The next deadline Mon., Nov. 26, ·1973. The BSA and the Union College theatre group are presenting \No Place to be Somebody,\ a play by Bro. Charles Gordone, and directed by Bro. Greg Freelon. Bro. Greg graduated from Union two years ago and has directed two plays with the BSA since then . Bro. Gordone wrote \No Place\ for a Black audience, which means that the dictates of traditional. white theatre are not applicable. The drama has a traditional story line arnd mo.ral, but to present them without saying anything about some of the meanings within the play would be an injustice. In brief. the main story is: if you go against the system, you die, nigger. The plot revolves around the happenings of a small bar which could be in Harlem, North Philly, Bannecker City, Watts. Los Angeles, or Newark, ;New Jersey - places where it's hard to be somebody. The main characters all lead lives typifying an unusual ghetto phenomenon: they are all in a constant state of changing sameness. The bar owner. Johnny Williams. played by Bro. Bernard Carey. is a pimp with an almost white mentalitv. even to the point of hating Black people. He redeems. himself by conning his white g!:irl friend into stealing incriminating documents about her father. For daring to change from whiteness into Blackness. another brother kills him. Johnny's change was from a mentally-dead man trying to be white, into a physically dead Blackman. Johnny's Black whore, Evie, played l>y Sis. Shawn Brown, decides to give up her life of whoring to prostitute herself as a token for IBM. Dee, Johnny's white -whore played by Karen Bernhard. kills herself because Johnnv refuses to return her love. She had been emotionally dead ever since her drunken father had raped her: changing sameness. The other characters follow the same pattern, except for Gabe and Machine Dog. Ga-be, played by Greg. is the poet who envisie>ns the entire scenario. and intermpts at various times to explain why what he shows is truth. Machine Dog, played by Bro. Anthony Sharp, is the conscience of Black people and makes his appearance to cause Johnny to change. Bro. Sharp is a new-comer to Union and the stage, bu1J. his performance is righteous and hip. Other members of the cast who deserve mention because they perfo1T11ed in such a way as to show ex.actly what Bros. Greg and G<irdone wanted to say are: Virginia Lyle, as Cora: Tom D'Aioisio. as Shanty: · and Sharon Grollman. as Mary Lou. Brother Kris Upshur. playing Sweets Crane, has done another of his exceptional jobs. All )'>raises to Bro. Freelon and his ca!'>t.

B PERSPECTIVE, Fridali, Novemher Black Story by DON HARRELL And it came to pass that the Blacks were sorely tired of promises heaped upon them by the White Power Structl!lre. And the ghettos were filled with the unemployed, anc:l the debris of shabby, overpriced Christmas merchand-ise, and the sick lt'>o poor to obtain medical attention, and most of all, rats and roaches. Now, there :lived in the ghetto of Harlem a young man na tned Booker T. Booker T. looked about the filth, and crime-ridden streets and said~ \This is bad!\ And he looked 'into the home of Harlem and saw the rats and roaches, and he said, \This is had!\ And ·he joined the P.TA. and peeped the school systems, and then Boeker T. said . ' \'Wheew!\ So Booker T. went to his leaders, and they listened to his story, and they cried with him and gnashed theil' teeth with him, but made no move to help his people. And Booker T. said, \Hey what is this:· And Booker T,, being cancer by birth and therefore a sensitive soul, was unable to keep these things .to himself, for it was not his way to .suffer in silence. Now, Whitey was a powerful man in the land, and although Booker T. :thought hi in degenerate for allowing his people to live thusly, he was unimpressed by Booker T.'s ()pinion of him. And Whitey mocked Booke,r T. and said, \Surely God has favored us. Look at all the good things he has given unto us.\ And when Booker T. heard these things he gnashed his teeth, and rent his clothin'g .asunder and put on a dashiki, for he knew it was not God who gave these things to the Whites. And after these things had come to pass. Booker T. found himself without funds. and he had to go to the Welfare Department \.\.a~ not sympathetic with Booker l'.'s anger. and they were moved not. for they found him to be intelligent and capable of W<)fk. So they gave him funds for food and rent and sent him to a place of employment. But straightway the new employer said, \This man is not ahle to work with us. He is sick and filled with hate. Moveover, whosoever shall not like us. shall not earn bread by the sweat of his hrow.\ And Booker T. Said, ··oo unto others as they do unto you.\ Hut the Whites had hardened their hearts. and chanted unto Booker T. in unison, \That is no excuse? The Rible says to love one another.\ And Booker T. said. \You people are full of shit!\ And \\hen thev heard these words t'hev locked Hooker T. in a melllil hospitaJ for they found him to be dangerous. After spending forth day and lorty nights in Creedmore. Booker T. found an escape route and be-bopped into the. woods and concealed himself among the trees. And there Booker T. spoke to his Lord. And he endured. And God was good to Booker I., for there was an abundance of opossum and berries in the woods, and Booker T. prepared oppossum .and berries and he grew fat. And it came to pass one day, Hooker T. was preparing oppossum outside his cave and he had no salt or pepper to flavor his l'ood, and he cried out. \Oh~ Lord! How sanctimonious these hastards be! They kill and cheat, and rob and plunder. Moreover, they engage in sodomic wactices in their boudoirs which they teach unto my people. Surely yo.u ~hould bring them low for what they have done to us! Evil :~bounds in the land.\ And a voice cried out, \Booker 1.! Booker T.! Leave the caves. the woods and return to the ghetto of your people.\ And Booker T. said, '\What will do with this oppossum~!\ And the voice cried out, ··we will use it to bring your enemies low.\ :\ow, Booker T. returned .to Harlem but was unable to find a room, for the people did not like the smell of his oppossum, so he \\as forced to spend his nig:hts on a Harlem roof. And when the . stars a·nd moon came out, Booker T. saw the filth of Harlem and was sadde.ned in heart. And Booker T. thought, \.If the Irish have .left their shanties, same some, and ~he Italians have left their tenements, save some, surely we, the \Blacks can leave the ghetto, or transform it. into a good place to live for the people;\ And then he looked to the east· and saw luxury apartments rising to the sky, and he saw the constantly swept streets, and the uncrowd-ed schools, and he said, \That is good.\ And then he looked at his oppossum and laid it down, and he said, \Lord what woul'd you have me do?'' And then a voice said, \Booker T., watc·h your oppossum and pray, and you would know these things that I would have you do.\ After these things were said and people had closed their windows, stillness fell over Harlem. All were asleep save Booker T. who was wat!:!hing his oppossum and praying. And when morning came, nothing had happened, and Hooker T. cried out: \My 6od, Why have you forsaken me? Why Lord? Why?\ Then an army of roaches and rats crept, crept from all over Harlem and filled the roof and commenced to consume the oppossum, and Booker T. marvelled at God's work. StiU Booker T. did not understand, hut he questioned God not. Then the wind blew and the rats and roaches and the oppossum blew off the roof onto the street bela.w. \ow it came to pass that some White sociologists were walking the streets of Harlem, studying \1 hat the White power structure had done to people for the umpteenth time, and the rats <ind roaches fell before their feet, and the sociologists commenced to !!nash their teeth and rand their cloths as -they ran away in fear. All these things Booker T. save. I hen Booker T. knew what the I .ord would have him do to save bis people. I hen one day. the voice came hack. and it said. \Booker T., tell ~our people to come out into the 't reels and bring with them their rats and roaches.\ And In and he hold. all the Blacks of Harlem \.\ere assembled into the streets, \\ith their rats and roaches parading to their left flank, their right flank. their front and their rear. 1 \nd the people with their life long friends, the rats and roaches, prayed and marched to the east ~ide of town, and to the four corners of Long Island and Staten Island. And they went to aU the places the Whites called home. The rats and roaches, being well versed in guer~lla warfare, plagued the Whites with their tactfu·l indulgence. until the Black man's enemy gnashed their teeth, rended their clothing, and. took haths in the East River. Whew they Cried!! Then Booker T. said, ••we will march and bring you these gifts until we have peace, and a piece of the action in this land.\ And they did march. And when the Whites saw that the Blacks would march until they received a piece of the action, they began to relent their sins for their comfort was very important to them. Whew!! And the slums were cleared, and the rats and J'oaches had no place to hide, and they disappeared from the land or discerned themselves to the Active Heserve, ·And the land rejoiced, and there was peace in the land. and the Blacks got a piece of the action. And Booke.r T. went to the highest building in t-he land so that he could be c.(oser t·~l his (iod, and he prayed to him and thanked him for the wonders that his people had received. And tAe l.ord cai'Ied unto Booker T. and said, \Booker T. Booker T. be glad not, Booker T., for you have only received a piece of the same old shit! Gird your loins, for vou·r \\ork has mrly just hegan!!\. Harrell, who plays Melvin Smeltz, in \No Place to be Samehodp.\ Heightened Respo_nt;e: Bla,ck A ware ness by ZELD.IA WOODARD There is a kind of intensity that permeates our living today~ It demands action and· makes you impatient about dojng meaningless things that devour. time. It causes you to be angry and unappreciative toward meaningless and ineffective people who occupy meaningful positions in life. It would do well to remove these things from life and to improve the ineffectiveness of those who are ineffective, or remove them Jrom such positions. Once you begin to engage in doing this, those around you will remark: \Oh you certainly have changed.'' They can never seem to deal with the idea or the reality of your seeing the need for chang~ or that you have quite carefully t.:valuated its relevance to you and your needs - in essence, to your \ery survival. lhi~ is the idea and work to which all conscious Black people are to address and devote themselves. We are to he aware of the need for changes and our responsibilities in making those changes a reality. For too long. we have saturated ourselves with d ' . .. helieving that we do not have ail to consider seri.ously the alterna.tive to our state of affairs. alternatives and prepar~ ourselves THis had led tc;> a continuation of as the initiators of those compromising, minimizing; alternatives. It is necessary for- us denying, and negating our to acquaint and align ourselves Blackness .and its underdeveloped with Black leaders who are potentialities. We have effective, strong, and those who thoroughly convinced ourselves· have .a.nything of value to disclose that we cannot do; and if we can, to the people. We must begin to it won't be as good as what it prepare our minds and bodies to already is. Thus, we became the fulfill the supportive and chief defender of the \goodness\ leadership roles that all of what already is, and there is so movements create. little that is good. Washington You must begin to see the need with its scandals, the communities for change in order for you to li-ve of Troy and Albany and the and be ~dive. At ~his point, we are public innercity ·schoels, should no longer interested in mere afford us some obvious factors in survival. Our forefathers fought revealing how rotten things are. . the battle of survival, when they This is, 1.973 and there is no . 1 sur:vived slavery. W:,e ,need more; excu'se for the lack ·of we are ready for more, therefore, eonsciousness, involvement, ..and we must do more. This need must insight so prevalent among our he tnet and dealt witl'l. or else, it Hlack college \degree\ seekers, \\ill prove itself to be of a and h·olders. It is lime to qualify cancerous natu.rc; producing more our Blackness, sin.ce we have cra1y negroes with dull proclaimed, \Black is beautiful.\ ~.·onsciollsness and unseeing eyes, We must be about the kind of !\ brother once stated, ''It has Blackness Don L. Lee writes nothing .to do with how good you ahout in his poetry, and that .is, are. it is only concerned with how positive .Blackness -created from much better you must be.\ It is Blac.k positivity. We must begin ~ignificant of a better. brighter, hroader Blackness. If you and I deal. it will \)e a determining bctor in the kind .of legacy we \\ill leave for our younger sisters and brothers.

s s s j e e )-'<' •1- , I s s I e PERSPECTIVE, Friday, November 16, 1973 c Changes 1n Black Theatre • Going to t:he theater can do a W?·rld 9f good for your head. lf · the script <lnd the actors· are good endug[r, you can lose yourself in a dream of makeup, costumes and tines. If the script is dynamic enough, it can make you think,' forcing you to expand yottr mind, like it or not. I'll venture to say that we alllil<e to have our minds ~omething having to do with white oppression. Whether or not t,hese themes have been successful in developing our coUective minds or even successful in changing them to set us all on the stmight and narrow, the fact remains that people tend to reject or ignore things t'oo overheard or too over- l:mphasized, a-nd to keep on~ pushing the same old themes will he a mere futile attempt. same themes with a brand new way of producing them or, more preferably, situations dealing with our people, us, not reminding us or haunting us with white people aU the time, and played by an all Black c~st. Aftet all, we don't need to be a-lways opposed to \\hi.te in order to be Black or to get a Black point across. If there \\ere no strand of blond hair, no flake of white. skin or no blue eyeballs .Ooating around earth, we'd still be the same Black we always were. Community Happenings The Congress of Afrikan People presents their 4th annual ,presentation of ''A pan-Afrikan reception,\ Friday, November 23. at X:OOp, m.\midnight. This year's reception will be held at the Waldoy Astoria's Starlight Ballroom, 18th floor, Park Ave. at · 50th Street in New York. Contributions; $1:5. per person, $25.00 per couple. For more information, contact Ndada Dalila of .the A.frikan Council, ·' 72-342(). * * * * * On Sunday, November 18, from 3:00 to 9:00, the Hamilton Hill \Dr<Jp In'\ Arts Center of 421 Schenectady Street, Schenectady, will present' \Evening in Africa.\ rickets are: Adults-$2.00, at door-$2. 25, Children-$. 75. * * * * * Vassar College's Black Community presents \Black Vibes,\ an exc1tmg Black weekend November 16-18. For further i1fotmation contact: . taken in different directions just for the hell of it. The beauty of theater is that it can do just that. I( can cha·nge minds,, break down harriers, ansWe17 4 uestions, raise questions and elevate self- <\Wareness. Or, if you ar.e not into tJ:Iat, go anyway and sit and wait for that great moment when .an <Wtor forgets his cue or can't stop laughing in a crying scene - or maybe when the lighting crew fails to fade out while a nervous act or is wondering how: to tell them that the scene is over .. Whatever your interest in theater The greatest motivation always comes ·with the newest thoughts or the newe.st ways to express an old thought, so by now, our thoughts bei:ng well worn are not too receptive. Our minds, being sieves at this f<Joint, are being t·urned away from Black theater simply because, we no longer want to. be reminded to do something we have been trying-to do for years. And, because· we have not yet produced fhe ideal Black atmosphere doesn't necessarily mean that we are guiltily lazy, it is just that some folks take longer to get to where they are going. As for those other folks who seem to be without the least forward advance, they probably have caJioused and unsensitive buttocks from being prodded too much i·n the wrong place with the \\ rong stkk. New Prof Autrey Jacobs or Michelle Thomas at, 914-452-9240. 'is, many good times .are to be had. Of course. nothing is all good. As it stands now, we could he facing a major downfall in our theater. The trouble is that our people have outgrown the played out themes. More often than not, Black plays deal with white folks, Black fol'ks trying 'to be white, or What we need now is either the Editorial BLACK PERSPECTIVE White· folks on campus are very excited -about a proposal to change the present grading system. Right now, the grades given an~ A, B, C, D or F, only. The pr.oposal is to add pluses or minuses to the letters so that the possible ·range ~f-C·gntdes would be C~, .C; C+. Supposedly. such a · system · is a rriore accurate indication of a student's pe•formance, and it is possible that the new system :would be fak if it is administered as objectively as a grading system should be. But, recall that this is Union College and that will not be the case. ' Under the old grading system, Black students automatically received grades of C, at best, on the first day of class. (The reason is, of course, that Black students have to prove they a:re good students to their professors). With the new system. the C wili magically change into a C- or D+. J?on~t get me wrong, though. l know that the intention of the new system is not to put Black students down any more than they ha,~,e been. The originai proponents of the system probably came to the objective conclusion that a B'- is a tnore accurate comparison of two student's performances than just a B. But in the case of Black students, a plus or. minus will be more an .indication of a professors' racially biased opinion than an objective evaluation. How do I know I'm right? Conversations with other Black students. and tny own experiences with professors on campus lead me to make such un-called for accusations; and a Knowledge of the history of relationships between white and Black folks in Amerika further encourage me. The o.r-iginal purpose behind slavery was not a heed to subjugate Black people hut old fashioned economics. Also~ American I.ndians were nearly exterminated only because they had land .white folks needed, and not because Indians were Inferior.. So, the new system isn't meant to _hurt Black students- but that doesn't mean it won't. All power an<;l ali praises. . YOUR UNION I.D. CARD IS WOR·TH 10% MORE AT THE COMPLETE RECORD & TA.PE' STORE * * * * * APEX MUSIC KORNER * * * * * CORNER OF STATE& BROADWAY In the massive halls of the science building the walls talk about the new faces that have appeared within. One of the new faces that they are talking about is a new Black Professor, Dr. George Smith. Professor Smith will teach a freshmen and Junior course in Biology starting in the winter term. He was born in Montgomery Alabama, is married <md has two daughters. He lived in Florida and then in Virginia, and it was in Virginia that he did his graduate work, at Virginia State College. He has also taught at Virginia State before coming to Union. The professor likes sports. He , expressed his like for basketball, s<9ftball, handball, and table tennis. Attention all table tennis ,pros, here is a new challenger for vou. When asked what advice he would give to students here at llnion, Professor Smith stated: \Students should go out and meet ptwple, to get involved in things that you might be interested 'in, get as good grades as you can, and to get a general overview of what is going on.\ He also stated that we should try and not get over-anxious, to do the best that we can in a given situation. I found Professor Smith a very enjoyable person. He has a personality that makes him delightful to be with. If you can find the time, go up and have a little talk with him. If you are interested in microscopes, he will even show you the electron microscope which happens to be his specialty. In closing I would like to say, welcome Professor Smith, and I hope you have a good year. G.J. * * * * HELP!!! If you have in your possession a blue nutshell notebook containing Statis.tic and Economics notes and it does not belong to you, please contact: Alan Gnessin Alpha Delta Phi 346-5405 CLIFFORD BOURST ARCO 81» NOTT TERRACE SCHENECTADY A few o.fthe Brothers and Sisters helping to finish the /1SA 's Information Center. Bro. Steve Lewis, in .tut-off dunf{crtees, is in charge of the Center. which l-Vill open by the first of Mon:-sat. 9 .a.m.-9 p.m. 464 State St. Decem her. ~-----------------------------...1~ ( TJ~-~-ll-~o_te;y 1 I I I I 1. CONVERSE 1 I L_MOCcASINS ___ J I Lined & Waterproof Winter & Hiking Boots. 1 -Complete Line of Dance Ace.- I . 147 JAy ST. L . Tel. 374-1777 Hr. 9-5:30, lh. 9·9 ·-------------------....---------

D • PERSPECTIVE, Friday, November 16, 1973 I t ' '',-1 ·%· \ ·.:! '\:!,_:.:.._,,,,_T.a\'~-\\-f'l<~ ~. Scenes .from '(No > :;; -.&,.:-;.--:/ ··~ ' Place to ··.;,, be • I 1 . b d , Some o y. } ;1 '

/} (t .. (() foUnded at Unit>n c_ollege ~n 1877 '(' Recycle ~his _Paper~ V()l. 103; No. 8 Tuesday, November 27, 1973 20 ~ents Energy Alternatives Union's historical monument ana.former library, Nott . Memorial, in all its glory. photo by Scott Gordon • Nott Memorial by :BILL TALIS The so-called energy cnsts facing the United States is one of m'any complex.. ·dimensions, and its ramifications a.re critical to economic and foreign security .of the country. Unfortunately, analysis of the situation is· very difficult bec.a use of the unreliability of information ori the subject Rep. Silvio Conte (D- Mass.) states that, \All information ·of this kind comes from the fuel indu~tries. There are no government :stu.dies in this area.\ If a;n energy crisis may be defined simply as demand outstripping .supply, than indeed America presently faces a shortage. However, data The Center of Things by ILLYRIA PUHARICH The idea for a memorial to stand in the center of the Union College Campus originated in the days of Dr. Eliphalet Nott. In 1\804 Eliphalet Nott became ·President of the· College and chose a new catnpus site in his first year of office. In looking for an architect to design the campus his attention was drawn to Joseph Jacque Ramee, a French aristocrat who fled France at the outbrea'k of the revolution in 1789. Dr. Nott induced Ramee to undertake the design of the campus in 1814. Ramee's design was dominatd by a ~und building which would provide balance and integration for the other groups of buildings, separated .bY a broad lawn open at one end. Most of the building was done quickly, with the exceplion of the round building in the center of the campus. A relative of Nott, Edward Tuckerman Potter (class of 1853) was employed as architect in I 855 to design a building for the center of campus. Potter produced a design that vaguely resembled the. original drawing of Ram~e. Construction began but was soon abandoned because of lack of funds. So all the campus had at its center in 1857 was the foundation of the now famous, but elusive, round building. • T :wo decades passed until the project was renewed under the presidency of Eliphalet Nott Potter, Nott's grandson. Another Potter, Wil'liam (class of, 1864), was employed as architect and he produced a grandiose plan for the center of campus in the then- fashionable Gothic-Romanesque style. Under his direction the building was completed in 1872 and dedicated to Eliphalet Nott. Nott's statue was to be on top of the building; even though the statue was apparently ordered from Italy and 30,000 dollars was donated to- finam;e it, the statue never .got to the top of the memorial. Also at that time the quote which encircles the top of the building was chosen by a Union professor of philosophy, Taylor Lewis. The quote ·is taken from the Talmud. The Hebrew, \' now difficult to read because of missing pieces, translates, \The work is great, The day is long, The master presses the workmen.\ (Yes- it is from the Talmud, not the ·Communist Mardfesto): U tiliz:ation of the building continued to be a problem until 1897 when Andrew Carnegie gave a gift to the College to convert the building to a: libr~ty. The library was opened in 1903, at which time a tablet was unveiled by a great- grandson of Eliphalet Nott which read, \This building stands as a memorial of Eliphalet Nott, President of Union College from 1804..1866, one of Am.erica:'s greatest educatiors - a man of genius, of persuasive eloquence and of rare personal power. Through the efforts of his grandson Eliphalet Nott Potter, President of Union College from 187l to 1884, this lasting memorial became possible. The final adaptation of this building' to the purpose of a library is due to the generous gift of Andrew Carnegie.\ From the day it opened, the library had many difficulties because of its shape. A round library does not \lend itself to good spacing, simply because books are not pie-shaped. At the time Union was fortunate to get arch-shaped study desks from Columbia University, which had declared its r·ound library unworkable. Almost from the day the library opened a host of Union College librarians gave piteous cries to be let out. When Helmer Webb, now deceased, assumed duties as head librarian in 1936, he opened his statement on needs of the library as follows, \The most critical 'need of the library is a new library.\ Needless to say, Union's librarians rejoiced when Schaffer Library was completed in 1961. The memorial was then converted to a theatre in the Tound for Mountebannks, and the. Coi!ege bookstore ·was put in the basement. In November of 1972 Nott Memorial was placed in the National Register of Historical . ENERG.Y MEETING NOT TONIGHT It was inadverta:ntly spread around eampus last night that there would be a town meeting about the energy situation tonight at seven thirty. The meeting was never officially called and information wiil be dis- seminated as soon as reliable statistics and possible alternatives have been established. Places, a national inventory of sites that are detevrnined to have historic or aesthetic significance io the United States and that should be preserved. The Nott Memorial, aside from its aesthetic value, is also considered to be a fine example of architectural skill. InciJsion in the register means that federal funds can not be used to destroy the building unless specialcourt acti() n is taken (i.e. if a .highway were to be built where the historical site was). It also opens the wa¥ to receipt of scarce federal funds for restoration. Such funds would only be partial; a substantial am<>unt would have to be provided b:y the College. Union has nC>t 'neglected the future of Nott Memorial. Bernard R. Cannan, Director of Publications and :Public Relations and knowledgeable on Union's historical site; heads - the restoration project. Within the next few weeks ·his office will publish a Restoric Structures Report on damages in the memorial, its futlue use, and its restoration. The damages are extensive but do not place the safety of the building in jeopardy. The entire dome structure needs replacement. Set into the slate roof are cole>red glass bull-eyes, supposedly representing stars in the sky. Astronomers viewing the spectacle have f:Jeen unable to identify any cons,tellations, which indicate how much the architect knew about stars. Most of the \&tars\ leak. Tlu point of the dome is 10 I feet fr()m the ground and 60 feet above the level of the second story. At the peak is some sort of ventilator or skylight, which also leaks. The rainwater and pigeon <lroppings do not reach below only because of the interposition of subsidary stmcture of fiberglass. Many of the windows need replacement. The ivy is tal<ill:g its toll of the outside structure, eroding much of the mortar. In addition t.o this obvious damage, John Mesick, the architect working on the restoration project, maintains that the present use <>f the building is destructive. For example, the tiles in the floor, whic::h have a design, are from Englan'<l and were given by a relative of Eliphalet Nott for the building; these are being broken by b~lting down of theatre seats and drilling for sets. Mr. Carman said the Restoric Struc~ure Report, brought about Continuecf o~ page 2 concerning energy supply and reserves is very much in question. The Federal Trade Commission study, released on July 6, 1973, concluded that the major oil companies have \attempted to increase profits by restricting output.\ The pet.roleum industry is distinct from most American industries in that a large amount of revenue from the sales .of their products must be invested into seeking and developing new petroleum resources, The oil companies claim that they do not have the revenue to sustain a vigorous discovery and development program at present energy prices. Indeed, gasoline prices in the United States are substantially lower than in other industrial nations. The cost per gallon in 1972 was 81<!: in France, 99¢ in Italy, 77¢ in W. Germany, but only 37 Q: in the U.S. Critics of the American oil industry argue that the oil depletion allowance could have been used for greater drilling effort. They have noted that President Nixon's re-election effort was well-financed by oil men. While exploration for domestic o.il supplies has decreased substantially in recent years, oil discovered per foot explored has also decreased. It is obvious that oil prices must rise in order to increase oil production. However, the oil industry itself controls that price rise. Whether or not oil wells and refineries are producing at peak capacity, and what sfze oil reserves are to be maintained are decisions from which the government and the publiC are excluded: Rep. Sam Stratton (O- N. Y.), speaking at Union on April 5, 1973, stated that production reports, \support the view that many wells and refineries are not producing at full capacity.\ The solution to the demand- supply gap would involve one or a combination of the following: increasing supply, finding a substitute energy source, decreasing demand. Efforts to increase domestic petroleum supply involve the encouragement of off-shore drilling, and construction of the Alaskan p i p e I i n e f o r i n,c r e a s i n g production. If government perceives the existence of an energy c~isis, the oil industry's demands for such action has greater appeal than the traditional argument of environmental constraints. Critics maintain that the shortage is contrived so as to give companies access to these cheaper supplies. Increased imported energy supplies involve many domestic and foreign policy consequences. The cost of increasing imports will magnify the balance-of- payments deficit and the instability of the dollar in foreign markets. The United States has historically imported 20% of its petroleum consumed, and the bulk of· these imports has\ come from Canada, Venezuela, and other Western Hemisphere nations. Projected increases of imported oil could only be supplied by nations in the Middle East. This year, imports have increased to · 35%. By 1980, according to the National Petroleum Council projections, 2/3 of our imported oil w.ill originate in the Middle East. The potential political leverage of these oil-producing states is fantastic. King faisal of Saudi Arabia, which possesses the greatest oil reserves in the world, has already admonished nations whose foreign policy is oriented toward Israel. With the possible ex<;eption of Iran, all Middle East oil producing countries are Arab states, in conflict with Israel. Should the United States seek foreign oil supplies, coercion in foreign policy may be inevitable. Perhaps even more threatening, though not as prominent, is the possibility that the United States will develop a Middle East alliance with Iran. The huge sales of militiJ.lY hardware to Iran might be interpreted ·· as a consolidation of that alliance, which may prove a future threat to peace in the Middle East. The development of alternative energy sources is a possibility. Pressure within the United States is mounting for the implementation of nuclear power at an accelerated rate. Nuclear power plants now operate by nuclear fission, which generates energy to boil water into steam. The steam turns turbines which generate electricity. Thermal pollution and radioactive wastes are still critical problems of nuclear power generation. Other types of nuclear power are in developmental stages. A limited reduction of petroleum utilization could result from conversion to coal and other existing energy sources. But . for the most part, the United States is locked into present energy patterns for the next ten years. The third possible action for balancing the supply-demand gap involves reducing energy demand, which is politically unpopular. Altering life styles may not be very pleasant, but in order to avert a severe long-term shortage, demand reduction may be necessary. Incremental steps such as implementation of transportation modes, may help provide for a smoother transition from the era of petroleum energy to nuclear energy. No politician who desires re-election will advocate any truly innovative conservation practice. · The problem is that currently we have no way of knowing just how severe the energy crisis is or will be. While the energy bite of the early 1970's may be just a temporary miscalculation of industry and government, it is paradoxical that we should ride around in Cadillacs, and open cans and brush our teeth by the push of a button, if the well has finally run dry. For all those interested in taking an upper level Hebrew course, Hebrew 133 will be gi'Ven in the winter. It will be gi'Ven in the evening, the exact hours will be determined by the teacher and the students. The eourse will involve an intensive grammar review and practice in reading and writing modern Hebrew. Prerequisite Hebrew l2 or the equivalent. CON CORDY ELECTION Kobel Haver was elected new Editor in chi:'ef of Concordiensis, for the winter and spring terms. This is the last issue of Concordy for the fall term. Haver is a sophomore, who campaigned under the banner \Come Home Concordyt\

.• Page2 CONCORDIENSIS, Tuesday, November 27, 1973 Concordy I~terviews: Jonathan Pearson by JUDY D.EIN Once students graduate. from Union College and go on in search of their fortunes, they forget about their old alma mater, right? Wrong! According to Jonathan Pearson III, Director of Alumni Affairs, himself an alumnus of Union CoUege and Director of Admissions here for 20 years, many graduates retain their interest in their fellow graduates and the school itself. Mr. Pearson feels that his job is basically to serve the alumni. A few months after graduation, and then every three to four years, computerized forms are sent to the last known address of each graduate. The forms carries information such as all degrees that the graduate is known to have obtained and the type of job that he has. The graduate is asked to update the form and return it to the alumni office. Due to the cooperation of the graduates, Mr. Pearson feels that the College's records are very complete and up-to-date. More personal correspondence is often held between Mr. Pearson and the alumni. Letters arrive continuously asking for the whereabouts of classmates and about ·events happening at Union. Each letter is either answered personally by Mr. Pearson, or referred to someone who can better answer the questions. Alumni contributions play a role in Union College's affairs. Placement Office Susanna Miller, Director of Placement and Caree:r Counseling. . photo by Perky Francis by CURT BROWN \Many students don't give enough thought .. to their careers while they are at Union,\ says Susann;l Miller, the Director of · Pl·acement and Career Counseling. \l don't think students are as career-directed here as some people are at llluch lesser elite schools. I also. think that the atmosphere of this school is such that the emphasis is on a cad e iii i c p e} forman c e, professional orientation, and theoretical abstract as opposed to . a nittN~ritty career plan. Fot example, there is oJ.J,ly one. undergraduate accounting course offered here which economic$ Nott History maJors can take, The Internal Revenue Service .needs people who have 24 C·redits of accountiflg. As we protect our intellectual atmqsphere by saying that economics majors are not accounting majors, they {eco, majors) . are l?eing a t,iny bit deprived in . that they are not going to get jobs that someone from a lesser school with 24 aclwunting credits will get.\ Nevertheless, Mrs. MHler predicts goo(! job opportunJties for students majoring in technicaJ fields, but the outlo<Jk is not as encouraging for m:m-technical (f:nglish, foreign lallguage, history, psychology, political science, etc.) majors. She has .planned a series of career seminars particularly oriented to non-technical students. Unfortunately, the first two, '()n goveTnm.ent caree.rs, and publishing, lVere p<:>orly attended, and this will ·not help to attract potential empl<;>yers or speakers to future seminars, · Consequently, the policy of Union, and most other colleges, is to keep iR as close tou,ch with as many graduates as possible. The hope of the College is that the graduates will Iielp it financially, and also recommend applicants. The Alumni Council (consisting of a graduate from every year) raises money for such projects as the beautification of the campus and investigations co'ticerning the future of the Nott Memorial. Continued from Page 1 jointly by the Alumni Council and Trustees, will be presented at the Trustee' meeting in January of 1974. He doubts, however, that any action will be taken at that time. Once structural repairs are made, the restoration plan proposes to open the two encircling galleries, (one is now closed off), and to remove the structure now blocking the view of the dome from the inside, allowing one to stand in the center of the building on the first floor and look all the way up to the top of the dome. The report proposes that the top gallery be used for Admissions offices, with an elevator on the flagpole side to take prospective Union applicants to the offices. The first gallery would be used for a museum to display art_ works by Union students. The main floor could be returned to its original purpose, an assembly hall -helding about 400 people. This would provide the College ,with an assembly hall larger than SS 016 and smaller than Memorial· Chapel. Conceivably, concerts of Chamber music and other events could be presented there. The restoration of the building, however, also involves .the problem of finding a new theatre for the Mountebanks. Mr. Carman noted that ·the College's most prominent building concern i~ that ·of gym facilities,. therefoFe he feels the restoration . of N ott Memorial holds second pnonty. It is conceivable that action may be taken within five, .certaiqly ten years. Thus Nott Memorial, \the Nipple,\ to Union students; may see some changes in the not too distant future. · She also intends to get alumni involved in the placement problem. Letters will be sent to alumni requesting career _ information on their particular professions. They may be asked The alumni sponsor two main fund-raising campaigns. There is the Annual Fund which raises money to contribute to the payment of the College's operating expenses, and the Capital 'Fund, which adds to the College's endowment. A part of each student's graduation fees goes towards financing homecoming weekend. Mr. Pearson's office does not solicit funds from the alumni. He does, however, acknowledge many of the gifts. For the alumni, the major source of information concerning College affairs is The Chronicle. The paper comes out ten times per year, and is sent free of charge to all graduates and friends of the College. The alumni office is. hoping to print an· entire magazine instead of, ·or in addition to, the four-page .. Chroni_cle. The money has been allocated for the magazine, but the office is waiting to hear the opinion of President Martin's successor on the suggestion. One event sponsored by the alumni office is Homecoming Weekend, which includes a social evening at the Girling Center, with free liquor, and an annual boat cruise on Lake George. Travel specials 'such as ski trips to Europe are offered to alumni and their friends. Reunions ·are 1ield''for each class every five years. A new type o( r~u_nion, ,p:qe involving all graduates of a decade (as opposed ·hi grao:tiates of a single year only), is being attempted. An alumni art show has also been suggested, to involve more graduates. A common complaint of faculty is that there is not much of an intellectual atmosphere during alumni events. However, it seems that the graduates do not want to get together to intellectualize. but rather to socialize. Lectures and discussions have never been well-attended. The trend seems to be towards more involvement in alumni affairs by recent graduates. As an inducement to attract recently graduated Unionites, Homecoming Weekend is free to members of the last five graduating classes. Many alumni have been coming back, having a look at the old school, and remembering when ... .. c - I Anyone wishing to take meals ~ · at D.V. for winter terin, call 346- 9776, ask for Bill Spelman for details. * * *- * Designed tiles from England tm the floor of Nott MemoriaL photo by Scott Gordon Concordiensis is pt,~blished every F r i4·a y during the school year except during examination an<! vacation periods by the student body of Union College, Schenectady, N.Y. National Advertising Representative: National Educational Advertising Service, Inc., NYC. Editorial office, Old Oym Hall, Union College. .• Publication office. The Jewish World Publications, 771 State Street.. Schenectady, New York, 12307 {346-2356). Entered in the Schenectady post office as Second Class Mail Matter. Subscription rate: 20 cents a copy, 8 dollars a year delivered anywhere in the United States. Deadline f~;n ail copy, which must be TYPED AND DOUBLE SPACED. is 7 p.m. on Tuesday at the Concordiensls office. located third floor Carnegie.~ · The pffice phone- number is 370-6155, but the office is in use only on Monday and Thursday. nights. FOR ALL EDITORIAL MATfERS CALL THE EDlTOR-IN-CHIEF AT 370-6126, FOR lNFORMATlON CALL MRS. MARRA IN THE STUDENT ACTIVITIES OFFICE AT 370-6118. ~ PETER PAUSE • RESTAURANT. r~-------------~--------• I I to participate in semina-rs related to their particular fields. Thirdly, Mrs. Miller will ask them to contact the Placement Office if they learn of any job openings. ~The job situation looks brightest for engin~ers. \Our el)gineers· are going to do just fine,\ Mrs. Miller commented. \We're back in that era where engineers may get four or five offers apiece.\ She also added, \The opportunities. in fhe pure sciences are also good. \Anytime engineering picks up~ the sciences wiU pick up.\ Finally,· the Director of 'Placement and Career: Couns~ling added, \Eventually . everybody ~is going to have 'to work. One will have to earn a living, or at lea:>t participate in some activity that makes his life meaningful, even if they don't need money. One qm. choose to major in a certain .field · because he enjoys that field, but there is no guarantee that he will be able to make a living in anything that is relevant to that field. There are skills (other than the skills of one's particular major) which are important to develop, and students should be aware of this. I encourage students to talk to anybody they know who is working, in order to .find out all they can about the world of work.\ Levrs. Dave's. Mens Sbop 453 State St. l (downtown Schenectady) I, . : ~\Student Discount\-. ~ I . . I I TJl-~Jtf!o_t_~~y f REALE'S CAMERA SHOP ~ Mon.•Sat. 5:30-7:30 5}5NOTTST. --· - . . § STAR LIQUOR ~\ AND ·wiNE. DISCO.UNT CENTER \Lowest Legal Prices'' \Free Delivery\ .. ~~ Tel. 374-9285 · ~~~!!!;~ I 1 CONVERSE. .J I .. I I 1 I I L ___________ J 1 1 I MOCCASINS .. ~ Lined & Waterproof Winter & Hiking Boots I 1 - Complete Line of Dance Ace . ....-.- I I . . 14? JAY ST. . l IL. . Tel •. 374-7777 Hr. 9-5:3·0, Th. 9-9- . -1 ·---~----------~----~----. \WHEN YOU'RE SMALL YOU HAVE TO BE GOo'D\ 783 ALBANY ST. We Deliver Until Midnight- Ca11374-5600 NlKON LEICA MINOLTA \Supplies for the Professional & Amateur LENSES • FILM •-PAPER . . . HOURS: Mon.-Fri.tl-9, Sat.H-5 1957 Foster Ave. (offNott) _,. Tel: 377-4446 'For three Generations' * 166 Jay St . .,. For Hom:~t ~t.:nice · And Good Jewelry ' - J) l ' (! (IM und Div 1 'Se~ ann eo: REl OF MO Exa belc B'H BU HU NVt PY ss SH F F We ( Pre ,]! :E P:rc E and } I 15 } Pre } Arr ( F F ( s I Lw ) Ka' I To I ,I Ro I ( 10€ ~ BH ~ 201 ~ Pn l Sci J NV J Pr' J ) Gr, ] De ) Ga ·~ Be l ·] l Le l l Pr l

J) l FINAL EXAMINATION SCHEDULE FALL 1973 FirstTerm -1973-74 (IMPORTANT ...... This exam· schedule is for regubtr' day undergraduate courses. A separate schedule .for \Evening Division 1 ' courses will- be i!nilounced, and students in 1 'Section 51 or 52\ courses should be alert for the announcement of the e.xam time for those courses;) CONFLICTS IN EXAMINATIONS SHOULD BE· REPORTED TO MRS. DE GROFF IN THE OFFlCE OF THE . REGISTltAR NOT LATER THAN MONDAY; NOVEMBER 26,1973. Examinations wiU be held in the assigned rooms. Listed below is the code of the b1.1ildings. to be used. BH .,.... Bailey Hall BU - Butterfield Hall HU - llumanities Building. N:W - Science-EJ}gineering ·center (:Nor,th Wing) PY - ;psychology Laboratory SS - S9dal Sciences Building SH- Steimet;z Hall - MONDAY, DECEMBER 3 9:00-li:OD' A.M. F.E.lO-BiU of Rights, HU 117, Prof. Murphy F.E. 22-The. Evolution of Human Society, SS 014, Prof. Wernette · Comp, Ed. 57;. The Nature of Math~matics, BH 207, Pref. Gillette : .Econl,!mics tO-Elementary Economics, Part I; Sec. 4, SS I 17, Mr. Phaup . Economics 132-Labor and Industrial Relations, SS 112, Pr.ef. Prosper English 10-The English Literary Tradition' Medieval and Renaissance, HU 112, Pr.of. Stevenson History lO~Colonial Period of America, 1607-I776, SS I 15, Prof. Wells History 35•Europe in the Early Modern Era, SS 010, Prof. Hansen History 64- The Spanish and Portuguese· Empires in America, SS 012, Prof. Bristol · Chinese 10-Basic Chinese T, HU 119, Prof. Woo·. French 10-Basic French I, HU I 14, Prof. Thomas Frencb 12-Basic French III, HU 110, Prof. Gouraige German 10-Basic German I, HU 116, Prof. Klemm Spanish 10-Basic Spanish I; Sec. 1, HU I 15, Mrs. Vinick Sec. 2, HU 016, Prof. Riggio Philo~ophy 12-Philosophi~;al Problems, lfU 014, Prof. Ludwig. . . · , Accounting 10-Principles of Accounting, BH 312, Mr. Kauth · · - Biology 13-Biology of Plants, Core Ill, BU 109, Prof. Tobiessen · ·Biology 14-Bi~logy of Animals, Core I, SS 016, Prof. Roth Biology 145-Protozoology, SS 117, Prof. Styles· Geology 120-Recertt Sedimentary Environments, BU I 06, Prof. Zimmerman . . Mathematics 18-Introduction to Logic ami Set Theory, BH 106. Prof. Loughlin _ Mathematics 30-0rdinary Differential Equations, BH 201, Prof.Leach _ Mathematics 136-Real Variable Theory I, BH 108, Prof. Fairchild Physics J3,Intreduction to Physics II, for Physical Science and Engineering, SH 110, Prof. Schick Physics :il8-Instr.urnentation for Science and Medicine, NW I I 6, Prtif. Lewis Physics 132-:Electricity and Magnetism I; NW .222, Prof. W. Schwarz , Psychology 10-A First Course in Psychology; Sec. 2, PY 103, Prof. Newman Psychology 30-Theory of Personality, PY l02, Prof. Graves , Psychology 48-Clinical Psychology I, PY 213, Prof. Dowling E.E. 3D-Transmissions Networks, SR, 100, Prof. Galantowicz MONDAY, DECEMBER 3 2:00-4:00 P.M. Comp. Ed. 54-.Psychological Concepts of Man and His Behavior, SS 016, ProL Graves Latin 10-Prirtciples of Latin, HU 016, Prof. Sorum ·Economics tO-Elementary Economics, Part I; Sec. 5, SS 113, Mt. Shulman F1·ench 141-The Tl:i'eatre and Classicism, HU 116, Prof. LeClerc Philosophy13-Ethics, HU 110, Prof. Baker Philosoph~ 20-Classical Logic, HU 014, Miss Vetterling Soci!»logy 10-E~olution of Human Society, SS 112, Prof. GraceY . E.S. lO-Systems, Computers, and Design I; Sec. 1, BH 29-l; P!'of. Goodheart Sec. 2, B11207, Prof. Aubrey Sec. 3, SH 110, Prof. Eisenstadt Sec. 4, BH I 02; Prof. Galantowicz LeVfS • Da\le;s. Mens Shop 453 State St. (4ownloWn Sch.;nectady) 1. TUESDAY, DECEMBER 4 THURSDAY: DECEMBER 6 9:00-11:00 A.M. 9:00-11:00 A.M. Economics 138•Quantitative Methods in Economics, SS Comp. Ed. 123-Modern Jewish History, SS 117, Prof. 117, Mr. 'Phaup Berk Chinese 130, Modern Chinese I, HtJ 119, Prof. Woo Art 20-Ptoblems in Art I, AB 202, Mrs. Bittleman Chinese 140-Modern E~pository Chinese I, HU 'I 19, . Classics 29-Epic Poetry in the Greek and Roman Prof. Woo World, HU016, Prof. Sorum Mathematics IO.Cakul!ls I; Greek tO-Principles of Greek, HU H9, Prof. Testroet Sec. I, BH 207, Prof. Maddaus Economics tO-Elementary Economics, Part I; Sec. 2, BU 204, Prof. Seiken Sec. 3, SS 115, Miss Kent Sec. 3, BH 201, Prof. Fairchild Economics 11-Elementary Economics, Part II, SS 012, Sec. 4, BU 204, P·rof. Seiken Prof. Prosper Sec. S, BH 102, Prof. R~ynolds Economies 131-Microeconomic Analysis; Sec, 6, SS 115, Prof. Stone Sec. 2, SS 113, Prof. k~nney Sec. 7, HU 1 IS, Prof. Ling History 14-Emergence of Modern America, SS 11.2, Sec. 8, BH 106, Prof. Loughlin Prof. Jonas Mathematics 12-Calculus II; History 124-From Slave Power to Black Power, SS Sec. 1, HU 115, Prof. Ling 014, Prof. Potts Sec .. 2, BH 104, Prof. Gillette History 143-Modern France: The Paris Commune to Mathematics 14-Calculus III; De Gaulle, SS OW, Prof. Hansen Sec. I, BH 108, Prof. Torn-ga History 187-Modern Jewish History, SS 117, Prof. Berk Sec. 2, BH 203, Prof. Hick French 13l•A General View of French Literature l, HU Sec. 3, SS 115, Prof. Stone 112, Prof. Le Clerc E.S. 30•Mechanics of Deformable Solids, BU 109, Mr. Russian 10-Basic Russian I,HU ll6, Mrs. Jernakoff Mason ·· Spanish 12-Basic Spanish Ill, HU I 10, Mrs. Vinick TUESDAY, DECEMBER 4 2:00-4:00 P.M. F.E. 31-Flie~ Have Dirty Feet, BH 201, Dean Smith F .E. 60· tight and V,ision, S H 1 ro, Prof. Goble Comp. Ed. 25-James Joyce, HU llO, Prof. Peterson Comp. Ed. 40-The Beginnings of Democracy, SS 016, Pro[ Reece Comp .. Ed. 62-Principles of Digital Computers, SH 101, Prof. Hoffman . Comp. Ed. 67-Perspective on Computer Languages, BH 205, Mr. McKeown Economics 133-Public Policy and American Industry, SS 014, Mr. Shulman Economics 134-Financial Analysis, SS I 17, Miss Kent English 153-Studies in Shakespeare, HU 117, Prof. Murphy .. Histor-y 158-Russia in the Imperial Age, SS I 15, Pfof. Berk German 12-Basic .German III, HU 116, Pr.of. Klemm Spanish 130-~eadings in Contemporary Spanish and Spanish American Literature, HU 114, Prof. Riggio Philosoph~ 30·Greek Philosophy, HU 112, Miss Vetter ling Sociology tO.Evolution of Human Society, SS 112, Mr. Carlile · · Sociology 37-The Urban Community in Transition, SS 010, Prof. Gracey Biology 153-Advanced Ecology, BH 203, Prof. Tobiessen Physics 121-Physital Meteorology, NW 222, Prof. Windsor Psychology 10-A First Course in Psychology, ·Self- Paced Format Section; Sec. 1, PY I 02, Prof. Berthold Sec. 2, PY I 13, Prof. Nancy Walbek WEDNESDAY ,.DECEMBER 5 9:00-11:00 A.M. F.E. 64-Weather and Climate, BU 109, Mr. D. Stone F .E. 71-Electric Power: How it's Generated and What it Costs, HU 110, Prof. Sutter Comp. Ed. 52-Scientific and Technical Photography, NW 116, Prof. Jones Comp. Ed. 66-Sex and Sexuality, SS 016, Ptof. Lambert Classics 22--History of Rome: The Republic, HU 114, Prof. Reece Biology IS-Genetics and Evolution, Core IV, HU 115, Profs. Boyer and Butzel Chemistry 40-Quantitative Chemistry, BH 102, Prof. Schaefer Chemistry 152·Physica1 Chemistry U, SS I 13, Prof. ·Frosch ~ . Physics 11-Introduction to Physics I, SH 106, Prof. Titus · Psychology 10-A First Course in Psychology; Sec. 1, PY 102, Prof. Huntley · Psychology 46-Physiological Psychology, PY I 13, Prof. Berthold E.S. 13-Electtic Circuits, SH 100, Prof. Ingvarsson E.S. 20-Mechanics, SH 110, Prof. Panlilio C .E. 42-Soil Mechanics, BU I 06, Prof. Harlow _ E.S. 42-Servo Systems and Control, SH 101, Prof. Russ WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 5 2:00-4:00 P.M. Comp. Ed. 86·Law in a Democratic Society, SS ll2, Prof. Anderson Economies 10-Elementaty Economics, Part I; Sec. I, SS 016, Prof. Herman Sec. 2, SS 016, Prof. Herman Economics 143-Economic Growth and Development, SS 113, Prof. Lee German 140-German Literature from the Middle Ages to the Enlightenment, HU 119, Prof. Wa,rde Political Science 20-Political Data Analysis, SS 012, Prof. Hartwig Sociology 136-Social Movements ·and Collective Behavior, SS 014, Mr. Wernette Mathematics 41-Linear Algebra I; Sec. 1. BH 203. Prof. Maddaus Sec. 2, ·BH 205, Prof. Reynolds Psychology SO-Educational Psychology, PY 213, Prof. Girdner · E.S. 22 ... Science of Engineering Materials, SH 110, Prof. Potter · Political Science 163-Political Parties and Interest Groups, HU 115, Prof. Tidmarch Biology 32-Biology of the Vertebrates, SS 016, Prof. Butterstein Chemistry 118-Inorganic Chemistr-y II, BH I 02, Prof. Weick Geology tO-Physical Geology, BU 204. Prof. Zimmerman Mathematics 101-Advanced Calculus for Engineers, BH 104, Prof. Tomga Physics 13-lntroduction to Physics II, for Biology, Science and Center I, BU 109, Prof. Swartz Physics IS-Principles of Modern Physics I, SH 106, Prof. Goble Physics 140-Introductory Quantum Mechanics. NW 222, Prof. Jones Psychology lO·A First Course in Psychology; Sec. 3, PY 113, Prof. Calabria : ·· Psychology 24-Social Psychology, PY 102, Prof. Newman Psychology 38•Child Psychology, BH 201, Prof. Nancy Walbek E.~. 26-Thermodynamics and Heat Transfer, S H II 0, Prof: Ketchum THURSDAY, DECEMBER 6 2:00-4:00 P.M. F .E. }.2:-\Anarcpy .an.d Authority,\ H U 016, Prof. Baker Comp. Ed. 122-Crisis and Authority in East Europe, SS 115, Prof, Gati Musi~lQ-Intro9uqtion to Music, AB 202, Pwf. Wilson PolitlearScience Hf-Comparative Political Analysis; Sec. 2, SS 016, Prof..Board Sec. 3, SS 016, Prof. Board Political Science 157-Crisis and Authority in East Europe, SS 115, Prof. Gati Statistics tO-Introduction to Statistics, BH 312, Mr~ Hannan Psychology 62-Practicum in Child Study I, PY 213, Prof. Girdner Computer Science tO-Introduction to Computer Science, BH 207, Prof. G. Williams . Computer Science 12-FORTRAN Programming, BH 20 I, Prof. Goodheart Computer Science 20-Machine and Assembly Language Programming, BH 207, Prof. G. Williams · FRIDAY, DECEMBER 7 9:00-ll:OO A.M. F.E. 18-Nonviolent Dissent: Thoreau, Gandhi, and King, SS 014, Mrs. Flynn F.E. 27-Freedom, HU 012, Prof. Enteman F.E. 65-Introduction to Computer Programming; Sec: I, SH 110, Prof. Gajjar Sec. 2, BH 106, Prof. Ingvarsson Sec. 3, BH 108. Mr. McKeown Comp. Ed. 26-The Nature and Functions of Law, SS 016, Prof. N. Allen Comp. Ed. 64-Great Ideas of Modern Physics, SS 010, Prof. Wylen Philosophy tO-Freshman Seminar in Philosophy, HU 012, Prof. Enteinan ' C.E. 45-Water Resources, BU 109,. Mrs. Jorque FRIDAY, DECEMBER 7 2:00-4:00 P.M. . Economics 131-Microeconomic Analysis; Sec. I, SS 014, Prof. Lurie PoliticalScience 1 0-Comparative Political Analysis; Sec. 1, SS I 12, Prof. Nichols Political Science 11-The American Political System. SS 012, Mr. Wacirah Sociology 140-Mass Communication and Social Structure. SS 010, Mr. Carlile· Chemistry tO-Fundamental Chemistry I; Sec. 1, SS 115, Prof. Scaife Sec. 2, HV 115, Prof. Weick Sec. 3. SS 115. Prof. Scaife Sec. 4, H U I 15, Prof. Weick Sec. 5, HU 114, Prof. Wang Chemistry 30-0rganic Chemistry I; Sec. I, BU 204, Prof. Sheffer Sec. 2, BU 204, Prof. Hull

Page4 CONCORDIENSIS, Tuesday, November 27, 1973 Biological Research Of Union Professors Union Tops Hamilton by BART MERCER Ron Westbrook led in interceptions and fumbles, Dave Kates led in rushing, and Lou Miller led in scoring as Union's FootbaH team led Hamilton 7-3 · and hung on to the score for the \ ictory which ended the season on a winning note. Dutchmen have won this year. \Junior Lou\ has scored all of the team'S' points, the first win coming at the hands of R.P.t Professor George Butt~;:rstein by DAVID NEIFELO said that his current research Although most people realize -concerned various aspects of that research is going on in the pregnancy; rats are his subjects. Biology Department, chances are In particular, he is looking at they do not know exactly what endocrine control of growth of research is being d 1 one and who is the placenta, which forms during doing it. It woul'd seem pregnancy oand provides the fetus appropriate to find out what with nourishment. types of research the professors Professor Peter Tobiessen are involved in. described his main interest as The first professor interviewed water relation with plants. He is was Dr. John Boyer. Dr. Boyer, a especially interested in how plants population and · evolutionary adapt to stress. To aid in his biologist, stated that his main research, the College has received field of concentration is a growth chamber from G. E. determining what in the genetjc This will enable Dr. Tohiessen to make-up of animals enables them continue his research through the to cope with their surrounding winter. He is also planning to environment. Working with a submit a request for a grant from particular type of flower beetle, the National Science Foundation Dr. Boyer is studying changes in for his studies with pine tree its environment produced by the populations. oeetle itself, including changes in Professor Twitty · Styles the food supply due to crowding concentrates his study on the and competition. He is also immunity of rats to a certain studying what he terms infectious protozoan, \reproductive compensation.\ ·Trypanosoma lewisi. Dr. Styles The beetle is exposed to a has sought to determine the role stressful situation, which causes played by the thymus and bone her to· postpone egg-laying until marrow in protection of the rat the crisis has passed. Dr. Boyer against this invading organism. has observed that to compensate He has submitted this branch of for the delay in egg-laying, the his reasearch for publication. l>eetle will deposit a greater He is also interested in number of eggs; hence the stress zoonoses, which are diseases that offers a reproductive are found both in animals and compensation. man. In particular, Dr. Styles is N.ext, Professor Frank Lam bert interested in those diseases that was asked about his research. Dr, are transmitted from animals to Lambert, who concentrates on man. He has recently submitted a physiology. stated that he has monograph on this subject. l>een Working with crayfish. In Professor George Snrith is particular, he has been studying working with what he termed the chemical effects of drugs on ''primitive motile syste~s.\ He is neutral components in certain trying to discover how things muscles of the cr~yfish. Professor move on the most primitive basis. Lambert regrets that he has.heen Dr. Smith, an electron tied up with the Comp. Ed. microscopist, is directing his program and has not been able to study towared the mitotic devote the time he would like lo apparatus of a dividing cell, his research. which provides an attachment for Professor Henry Hutzel's main the cell's chromosomes. field of investigation is ··Dr. Smith has three main goals developmental genetics in in his research. The first is to pmtozoans. He is trying to see if study the fi~~ structure of the it is possible to relate certain apparatus itself. The second is to genetic mechanisms of these determine by various techniques primitive organisms to higher (gel-electrophoresis, for example) ~.nimals. what types of protein\s are present MCAT~DAT-GRE LSAT-ATGSB NAT't. BDS. * Preparation tor tests required for admission to graduate and profes- sional schools * Six and twelve session courses * Small groups * Voluminous material for ·home study prepared by experts in each field * Lesson schedule can be tailored to meet individual needs. * O.pporturtity for review of past lessons via tape at the center Summer Sessions Special Compact Courses Weekends - I ntersessions STANLEY H. KAPLAN EDUCATIONAL CENTERLTD. 1675 E .. t161h Strn1 Brooklyn, N. V (212)236-5300 ~~ . (516) 538-4555 . DAYS. EVENINGS', WEEKENDS SINCE 19311. Boston • Phil&. \ Wethington • Detroit • l,.os Angeles • Miami The TuloriJ18 School with lh• /Varionwilk Repul<!ti.,.. in the apparatus. Finally, he hopes to find out if there are any proteins of t·he skeletal muscles of the body found in this structure. Dr. Smith, who has developed his own technique for isolating the apparatus, is in effect trying to find out what causes it to contract. The contraction ultimately leads to cell-division. The implications of his work are immense. If, we can determine how a cell divides, and what stimulates it to divide, we may ultimately discover what causes cancerous cells to divide out of control, as they do. Smith is hopeful that he will obtain positive results. ••••••••••••••• • • I THE • 5 Other Side ! 5 of Today ! I \Handcrqfted & I 1 Imported Items;' 1 • 135 JAY ST. • • • • Tel. 377-0477 _ - • ................. Come To Moffett's Liquor Store and try one of our fine wines We Have The Lowest Prices in New York State Professor Carl George explained his main atea of research as the effect of large projects on various ecosystems. He cited examples such as the effect :of the Aswan dam on certain fisheries in the Mediterranean Sea, and the impact of cities on the surrounding environment. Or. George is particularly interested in the Lake George area, and the effect of the increasing presence of man via boats, etc. on the fi11h in the rake. Professor George also explained that he is a 'field ecologist, so his work requires him to be at Lake George most ·Of the time, not in a laboratory in l1 nion CoNege. He has been working in association with the Fresh Water Institute of La·ke George. Professor Helen Birecka has recently published a paper on the physiological role of an enzyme, peroxidase, in plant cells. Her study included de.te.rmining whether or not certain plant hormones enhance or inhibit ,the act-ivity of this particular enzyme. She also studied the relation of injury to the plant to the activity of the enzyme. Her work can be found in· the July issue of Plant Physiology. Professor Willard Roth has been focusing his attention on the study of the pineal gland. He has been trying to determine the exact endocrine function of this gland. At this time, there are several students working with Dr. Roth on the pineal gland and the effect of its removal in rats. The game, a-lthough an enjoyable one to watch, wasn't much from a coaches standpoint; Hamilton edged Union in turnovers 8 to 7. Hamilton put the first points on the scoreboard in the third 4uarter on the strength of a 40- y a rd field .goat after being. stopped cold at the Union 30 by the Dutchman defense. Hamilton received the ball there by intercepting one of Joe Urschel's 13 passes. Union wasn't to be frustrated, however, as they imr'neqiately drove 80yan:ls to scor-e with Dave Kates doing most of the rushing with two long gallops around right en<!. The, score came on a fourth and I 0 play as Urschel tossed to Lou Miller who strode in for the 24-yard score. In the two games the A new Union Study· Abroad program win be initiated beginning nekt year, fall term of 1974 in Florence, ·. Italy. Elementary. Italian will be offered this spring term (1974) as a preliminary · preparation for the term a))toad. Anyone interested in further information is urged to contact Professor Klemm, · director of the progr11m, 2nd . floor, Humanities Building as . soon as possible. · The scoring could have been a lo,t higher in Union's favor except for ii .few inopportune fumbles .which halted qeep . pene.trations into· Hamilton ground. . _ The fi.rst fumble came in the . initial quarter. A 58-yard drive came screeching to a halt on the 2-yard line when ,the ball popped loose on the handoff and was ·joyously rec-overed by a ·continental, as everyone in the crowd shook his head in disbelief. Ron finished· the day with four interceptions and four lost fumbles. His few offensive miscues were more than made up for on defense. Dave Kates led all rushers with 96 yaTds In 16 tries. He surprised everyone with his unique running ability and style. But again, it was the Union Defense which hit havdest when it had to, to halt the Hamilton thrusts. Although giving up over 250 yards in total iJ(fense. the Dutchman \D\ allowed most of this p~oduction in Hamilton's end of the field where it was for the most part worthless. Just as Hamilton seemed to be mounting a drive, the line would clamp down on the run or the secondary would pick off an aerial. So. Gerry Everling's Boys finished the year at 2-and.:6 and sent Hamilton home for its first winless season ever at 0-and-8. External Affairs WANTED a female student who is interested in room and board and a small salary in exchange for babysitting with a four year old boy Monday t).tru Friday nights 3:00 to 1:00 A.M. Prefer a serious minded young woman who would be happy to benefit from the time child is put to bed to study. This is not a job for a swinger, but for sorneo11~ who needs a place to live arid eat and study. plus would enjoy taking care of a child ap<{ guiding his pre-schoo·l experiences. If you have any racial hangups this is not the job for you. Location near the school. Call Mrs. G. Baughns at 372-3105 before 3:00 p.m. (JOB effective Jan. 3, 1974}. byJOANNE LAUFER While the people of the External Affairs Office at Lamant House work hard, they also have a good time. So says Mr. Howard Thompson, Vice- President of Enternal Affairs. He is mainly concerned with fund- raising. He explained that although money is received through bequests, the major thrust is in the deferred-giving program, and life-income contracts. Many alumni WOl,!ld like to give money to Union because they love the school and would like to help to further the education of others. But since they naturally worry about their own future, the deferred-giving program is the solution to the problem. In the simplest terms, the money is put into a poQled trust fund, and the interest from that . money is given to the alumnus or whomever is named by him. In this way. he is assured of a steady income after his donation. CLIFFORD BOURSt ARCO 80 NOTT TERRACE SCUENECT ADY Levrs Dave's. Mens Sbop . 453 State St. (downtown Schenectady) Tel. 374;.1888 Mon.-Sat. 9 a.m.-9 p.m. 464 State St. Ms. Mary Van Loan, Supervisor of Office Procedures, is in charge of directing the Work flow in the various divisions of the External Affairs Office: Alumni Affairs, News Bureau, Publications, Development, and Funds. The office, because it has the equipment, also han,dles publications and duplication for other offices on campus. \Tartuffe A Bawdy, Brawling and Buxom Comedy of Manners, will be presented by the Mountebanks riext term. Tryouts will be held Mon.-Thurs., 11/26·11/29, · 2:30-5:00 p.m., 7:30-10:00 p.m. Sign . up in the Green Room, Nott Memorial. r---lllllllill------- ........ 1 •- SNAPPY ,•_ fisABiLLA·s . • . -~ F & H Pharm .. ey 527 UNION ST. Phoae 37~l300 Levrs Deve's MeD$ Shop 1 M. •E. N'S SHOPI S~teSt. . I . . . I . (dGWD&CMA. . . ) I TO UNION MEN: I ~ 1 J 1 5 m_ · 0 1,. Bianchi's · § /l •i Banquet Facilities I Discount With This Ad I Available Free to \Schenectady's 1 C l'' G ,, I Largest Men's Store\ I 0 ,.ege roup$ 1 Hrs. 9:30-5:00 I 1135 Barrett I Th. 9-9:30 I I 334 STATE ST. I ----..--.-------~: LUIGI'S Italian Restaurant BARRETT ST. Dl6-9744 Downtown Schenectady lV>t.Gi~~n<q\>~\'~\\' . \ Ol t i)) l)) ~ - m pl cc w at .st .tc tt GJ d sl tJ aJ nc U1 a1 o· k the Cc ca up Pr Ac wi ad or pr C'c ne re M re ar ar fo pr ar tli c PI he di st Sl rv H ~~ nl d n1 tf HI A h m cc It' p l't b Cc $ I~

.Rage4 CONCORDIENSJS, Tuesday, November 27, 1973 Biological Research Of Union Professors Union Tops Hamilton by BART MERCER Ron Westbrook led in interceptions and fumbles, Dave Kates led in rushing, and Lou Miller led in scoring as Union's football team led Hamilton 7-3 · and hung on to the score for the 'ictory which ended the season on a winning note. Dutchmen have won this year. \Junior Lou\ has scored all of the team's· points, the first win coming .at the hands of R.P.I. by DAVID NEIFELD Although most people realize that research is going ol'l in the Eiology Department, chances are they do not know exactly what research is being dpne and who is doing it. lt would seem appropr.iate to find out what types of research the professors are involved in. The first professor interviewed ~·as Dr. John Boyer. Dr. Boyer, a population and · evolutionary hiologist, stated that his main field of concentra.tion is determining wl:Jat in the genetic make-up of animals enables them to cope with their surrounding environment. Working with a r>articular type of flower beetle, Dr. Boyer is studying changes in its environment produced by the heetle itself, including changes in the food supply due to crowding and competition. He is also s t u d y i ng w h a t h e t e r m s ·~reproductive compensation.\ The beetle is exposed to a stressful situation, which causes her toe postpone egg-laying until the crisis has passed. Dr. Boyer has observed that to eompensate f<>r the delay in egg~laying, the beetle will deposit a greater rnm ber of eggs; hence the stress Clffers a reproductive compensation. Next, Professor Frank Lambert ;vas asked about his research. Dr. Lambert, who concentrates on pohysiology, stated that he has heen working with crayfish. In [)articular, he has been studying the chemical effects of drugs on neutml components in certain muscles of the cr~yfish. Professor Lambert regrets that he has. been tied up with the Comp. Ed. program and has not been able to devote the time he would like to his research. Professor Henry Hutzel's main field of investigation is developmental genetics in protozoans. He is trying to see if it is possible to relate certain genetic mechanisms of these primitive organisms to higher animals. MCAT~DAT-GRE LSAT-ATGSB NAT'L. BDS. * P\reparation tor tests required for admission to graduate and profes- sional schools * Six and twelve session courses * Small groups \ Voluminous material for home study j>repared by experts in each field * Lesson schedule can be tailored to meet individual needs. * Opportu~ity for review of past lessons via tape at the center Summer Sessions Special Compact Courses Weekends - I ntersessions STANLEY H. KAPLAN EDUCATIONAL CENTERLTD .. 1675 Em 16tll SITftl Brooklyn, N V (212) 236--5300 ii:.tf . (516) 538-4555 DAYS. EVENINGS'. WEEKENDS SINCE 1938. Professor George Butterstein said that his current research 'concerned various aspects of pregnancy; rats are his subjects. In particular, he is looking at endocrine control of growfh of the placenta, which forms during pregnancy '!lnd provides the fetus with nourishment. Professor Peter Tobiessen described his main interest as water relation with plants. He is especially interested in how plaHts adapt to stress. To aid in his research, the Col.Jege has received a growth chamber from G. E. This will enable Dr. Tobiessen to continue his research through the winter, He is also planning to submit a request for a grant from the National Science Foundation for his studies with pine tree populations. Professor Twitty Styles concent.rates his study on the immunity of rats to a certain infect·ious protozoan, ·Trypanosoma lewisi. Dr. Styles has sought to determine the role played by the thymus and bone marrow in protection of the rat against this invading organism. He has submitted this branch of his Feasearch for publication. He is also interested in zoonoses. which are diseases that are found both in animals and man. In particular, Dr. Styles is interested in those diseases that are transmitted from animals to man. He has recently submitted a mom>graph on this subject. Professor George Snfith is working with what he termed \primitive motile systems.\ He is trying to discover how things move on the most primitive basis. Dr. Smith, an electron microscopist, is directing his study towared the mitotic apparatus of a dividing cell, which provides an attachment for the cell's chromosomes. Dr. Smith has three main goals in his research. The first is to study the fine structure of the apparatus itself. The second is to determine by various techniques (gel-electrophoresis, for example) what types of proteins are present in the apparatus. Finally, he hopes to find out if there are any proteins of the skeletal muscles of the body found in this structure. Or. Smith, who has developed his own technique for isolating the apparatus, is in effect trying to find out what causes it to contract. The contraction ultimately leads to cell-division. The implications of his work are immense. If , we can determine how a cell divides, and what stimulates it to divide, we may ultimately discover what causes cancerous cells to divide out of control, as they do. Smith is hopeful that he will obtain positive results. ••••••••••••••• • • I THE • E Other Side 5 5 of Today 5 I \Handcrafted &. I 1 Imported Items\ I • 135 JAY ST. • • • Elosto.,'Phila • Wamington•Det•oit' LosAll911,.. • Miami • Tel, 377-0477 . • The Tutorin6 School with the Nationwide llepulalim! • B •• B ••• B ...... ... Come To Moffett's Liquor Store and try one of our fine wines We Have The Lowest Prices in New York State Professor Carl George explained his main area of research as the effect of large projects on various ecosystems. He cited examples such as the effect :of the Aswan dam on certain fis,heries in the Medite-rranean Sea, and the impact of cities on the surrounding environment. Dr. George is particularly interested in the Lake George area, and the effect of the increasing presence of man via boats, etc. on the fish in the lake. Professor George also explained that he is a field ecologist, so his work requires him to be at Lake George most of the time, not in a Ia boratory in l'nion CoHege. He has been working in association with the Fresh Water Institute of La,ke George. Professor Helen BiFecka has recently published a paper on the physiological Fole of an enzyme, peroxidase, in plant cells. Her study included determining whether or not certain plant hormones enhance or inhibit the activity of this particular enzyme. She also studied the relation of injury to the plant to the activity of the enzyme. Her work can be found in the July issue of Plant Physiology. Profess or Willard Roth has been focusing his attention on the study of the pineal gland. He has been trying to determine the exact endocrine function of this gland. At this time, there are several students working with Dr. Roth on the pineal gland and the effect of its removal in rats. The game, although an enjoyable one to watch, wasn't much from a coaches standpoint; Hamilton e\dged Union ·in turn overs 8 to 7. H ami! ton put the first points on the scoreboard in the third 4uarter on the strength of a 40- Y a r d field goat after being. stopped cold at the Union 30 by the Dutchman defense. Hamilton received the ball there by intercepting one of Joe Urschel's 13 passes. ll nion wasn't to be frustrated, however, as they immediately drove '80 yards to score with Dave Kates doing most of the rushing with two long ga;llops around right end, The, score came on a fourth and I 0 play as Urschel tossed to Lou Miller who strode in for the 24-yard score. In the two games the A new Union Study· Abroad program win be initiated beginning next year, fall term of 1974 in Florence, Italy. Elementary Italian will be offered this spring term · (1974) as a preliminary · preparation for the term abroad. Anyone interested in further information is urged to contact Professor Klemm, · director of the program, 2nd floor, Humanities Building as . soon as possible. The scoring could have been a lot higher in Union's favor except for a few inopportune fumbles .which halted deep . penetrations into· HarnHton ground. _ The first fumble came in the . initial quarter. A 58-yard drive came screeching to a halt on the 2-ya rd line when .the ball popped loose on the handoff and was joyously recovered by a Continental, as everyone in the crowd' shook his head in disbelief. Ron finished the day with four interceptions and four lost fumbles. His few offensive miscues were more than made up for on defense. Dav.e Kates led all rushers with 96 ya<rds in 16 tries. He surprised everyone with his unique running ability and style. But again, it was the Union Defense which hit hardest when it had to, to halt the Hamilton thrusts. Although giving up over 250 yards in total offense, the Dutchman \D\ allowed most of this pmduction in Hamilton's end of the field where it was for the most part worthless. Just as Hamilton seemed to be mounting a drive, the line would clamp down on the run or the secondary would pick off an aerial. So. Gerry Everling's Boys finished the year at 2-and-6 and sent Hami It on home for its first winless season ever at 0-and··S. External Affairs WANTED a female student whB is interested in room and board an.d a small salary in exchange for babysitting with a f()ur year old boy Monday thm FTiday nights 3:00 to 1:00 A.M. Prefer a serious minded young woman who would be happy to benefit from the time child is put to bed to study. Tllis is not a job for a swingeY, but for someont! who needs a place to live arid eat and study, plus would enjoy taking ~are of a child apd guiding his pre-schoo·l experiences. If you have any racialllangups this is not the job for y()u. Location near the school. Call Mrs. G. Baughns at 372-3105 before 3:00 p.m. (JOB effective Jan. 3, 1974). by JOANNE LAUFER While the people of the External Affairs Office at Lamant House work hard, they also have a good time. So says Mr. Howard Thompson, Vice- President of Enternal Affairs. He is mainly concerned with fund- raising. He explained that although money is received through bequests, the major thrust is in the deferred-giving program, and life-income contracts. Many alumni WO(!ld like to give money to Union because they love the school and would like to help to further the education of others. But since they naturally worry about their own future. the deferred-giving program is the solution to the problem. 'In the simplest terms, the money is put into a pooled trust fund, and the interest from that money is given to the alumnus or whomever is named by him. In this way. he is assured of a steady income after his donation. CLIFFORD BOURST ARCO 80 NOTT TERRACE SCHENECTADY Levrs • Dave's. Mens Shop . 453 State St. (downtown Schenectady) Tel. 374-1888 Mon.-Sat. 9 a.m.-9 p.m. 464 State St. Downtown Schenectady t.QI~~~~_.,. l Ms. Mary Van Loan, Supervisor of Office Procedures, is in charge of directing the work flow in the various divisions of the External Affairs Office: Alumni Affairs, News Bureau, Publications, Development, and Funds. The office, because it has the equipment. also han,dles publications and duplication for other offices on campus. \Tartuffe A Bawdy, Brawling and Buxom Comedy of Manners, will be presented . by the Mountebanks next term. Tryouts will be held Mon.-Thurs., 11/26-11/29, 2:30-5:00 p.m., 7:30-10:00 p.m. Sign up in the Green Room, Nott Memorial. fisA.a.ELLA·s . • 1 F & H Pharm.-ey 5Z71JNION ST. Phue37W3oo r--------------j I SNAPPY l n.v.e'sMeasShop 1 ME.N'S SHOPI -IS3~teSt. Levrs I I (dawm~Scbuectady) I ~~~ 1 ro UNION MEN: 1 ~ mama 1 J 5 at 0 l Bianchi's · 1 -/£ 1 1 nBt1nquet Facilities 1 DisC:ount With This Ad 1 Available Free to I I \Schenectady's 1 C l'' G u Largest Men·s Store\ I . . 0 r.ege roups I Hrs. 9:30-5:00 I 1135 Barrett I Th. 9-9:30 I I 334 STATE ST. I ------111]1111!11!11..-------~· LUIGI'S Italian Restaurant BARRETT Sl'. 016-9744 lJ ,» \ Vo - ( m pi C( w ar st to th OJ el st th at n( U1 at 01 kl th< Cc ca1 up Pr A< wi ad on pr C< ne re] M m• de HI 25 re an ar: fo pr ar th c. pr h< de st su M H cr ol cl ra tc a1 A hi m Ct m pi re h' Cl $: Ia

