, .. , Jar he eir ad rit of of ns a 9- founded at Union College in 1877 Friday, J!~e~ruary 2, 1973 20 cents ··Job Performance In Housing Office by BARB DEWEY Angry assaults upon the character of Sheila. Beam ha·, c subsided since the first weeks of last term. In fre4uency and volume perh!:J.ps they \\ill ncH: r match the accusation~ made (privately) by every Marty,. Sue, and Howie during the Fifth Man and Hickok scandals. ls it the commonly felt despondency we've experienced with had wan, ... frustration'! Or is everybody happy'? Everybody's not happy. Some people are still upset enough to want this article written, but even they must kno~ its ~urthfcs::.m;::.~ as an \expos~\ of sorts. Bored Concordy fans ~ould thriH ll:l tales of wrruption and hack- ~tabbing, and I searched in uin for evidence of lust and intrigue in the Housing Office. There is none. Neither is there evidence of much success in problem-solving. That is unfortunate and, I feel. sufficient proof that the office of Dean Beam can be characterized as incompetent. Sure, it's a bureaucracy. Confusinn, even mismanagement, is inevitable. But this is a small comrrmnity of j)ec.;)ple WhO\\ are supposedly organized (Resident Advisors, Head RAs, dea·ns, etc.) in a way that facilitates communication a:nd understanding, if not sollJ.tion, of problems. Confusion and mismanagement have become the rule rather than the exception. Student Task Communication is lacking. Peter Logan will not walk across the hall to find out what Mrs. Beam has to say. President Harold Martin does not think he should have to. Mrs. Beam . will not talk to the student in charge of campus mail because, \He doesn't listen to me.\ She refuses to relay maintenance problems to anyone who can deal with them. Instead, RAs and students must talk with maintenance men wh.o, particularly if the caller is female, assume she doesn't know what she's talking about. It's a fortunate accident if a stud~nt representative to the Board of Trustees learns of yesterday's meeting before next Monday and it takes three days to send mail from Student Activities to Fox. Centrex phones (one of Housing's answers td the problem) were installed in dormitories with difficulty by the fifth week of last term and it was possible to hear \Please dial 0 for further assistance\ six times regardless of what you dialed. Can Do Better? Communication is Mrs. Beam's problem, pe~haps simply because she is part of the Administration's bulwark. But if anyone can be expected to overcome the breakdown, it must certainly be she. Within her department she has full authority and jurisdiction. She is the staff as well as administrator, and there is no excuse for \passing the buck.\ She both makes and enforces decisions and should be willing to take responsibility for them. Referring a prob1em to .a superior is understandable administrative strategy, Mrs. Beam, however, refers most of her comptainants to her inferiors. Fot example, if you want to know something a bout Orientation, she will refer you to the Orientation Committee. h it too much to expect the Dean of Housing to know as much as those people who work under her jurisdiction'? . All right. Having come to the conclusion that Dean Beam is incompetent, I wonder if anyone could handle her position better. Some students feel they could. 1\t first. that struck me as a bit prcsumptuo.us. Few people kno\\ the extent of Mrs. Beam\ n.:spun~ibilitics. She is Dean of Women, Head Head RA, in charge of Orientation, Housing, and campus mail service maybe more. The Housing Department consists of one secretary and two grants-in-aid. With Dean Malloy's guidance Mrs. Beam struggles through each job, hut it may be she suffers from \spreading herself too thin.\ Her · attention never seems focused. If 'someone someday decides to improve this neglected department, they should consider, as an .alternative to replacement, addition of personnel -- and division of responsibility. Mrs. Beam, of her own admission, would be the last person to be offended, though 'I'm sure the reluctance to hire personnel is not grounded m consideration. No Quotations. scene peculiar at UCol until this yPar- ltUYS and girls sharing a dormitory .floor. Photo by Bill Erichson Co-ed Success In Fox by DEBLlE GLASSER Open doors ... a constant murmur of a conversation .. . a suite . full of girls and guys bullshitting after a tiring day ... all kinds of music flowing from adjacent rooms ... giggles ... roars ... the aroma of marijuana ... twenty kids sitting in the hall, singing along with their R.A. and his guitar .. . a game of cards, killer, or musical chairs ... a certain. special warmth ... It is all felt and experienced on third floor Fox south, \The Co- Ed Floor.\ It seems natural and common to any one of the 50 students living there, but probably sounds a little too unreal to an oUtsider. lt is quite a place. For a little background, the idea of a co-ed floor at Union had been talked about for a number of years. It was not until last spring, though, that the idea was finally realized. A separate lottery was held for any students was considerably high. The girls' and guys' lotteries were separate simply so that there would be a 50·50 ratio in the end. It was all over in a matter of an hour or two;. the fate of the floor had been determined. Of the original members. most of whom are still living there, about 45 were to be sophomores, with a few freshmen, juniors, and seniors mixed in. Fifty-two students arrived in September, determined to make the floor work. The first few days before classes began were noisy, wild, and meant to start the expedition off with a bang. Well, they di<l. Unable to handle all the excitement and not overly determined to become a part of the experiment, the girl R.A. moved out within a week. The floor had already earned itself a reputation. . It's now five months later. rather the single sex .floors that are unnatural. The distinctive quality on the co-ed floor 1s a sense of community. It resembles the feeling in an excited crowd at a football game, only a bit quieter. There is some intangible tightness, pride, closeness, friendliness, and alliance associated with the floor. It's a good and secure feeling. Last term, two guys on the Resident Advisers that I've spoken to, for the most part (taking a cue from the hierarchy) don't want to be quoted. They were slow to answer the admittedly blunt question: What do you think of Mrs. Beam? RAs have repeatedly told me she's a really \nice\ lady. No one disputes that. On this campus, I've been urged to add, \nice\ is something outstanding ... they are both extremely ambiguous terms. That's the extent of many commentaries on Mrs. Beam. Several RAs don't know anything about her, aside from what is said in their memos. Few come in contact with her unless they have a problem and those that do still have little insight into why she does what she docs. \She is :very understanding sometimes,\ remarked one. ·desiring to become pioneers in the experiment, and the interest People are into their own little existences, losing all curiosity concerning events not affecting their own lives. One hears little comment or questions concerning third floor Fox, and few references to its past reputation. The co-ed ,floor's existence is simply a known fact, although not many non•members ever wonder much about its success (or failure). · floor ran a detailed study of the situation for a Sociology course. They analyzed statistics from a questionnaire that was distributed to male and female sophomores, on and off the co-ed floor. Their numbers :verified quantitatively what they and their friends had been sensing qualitatively. The report showed that the co-ed floor members felt greater contentment in their living situation. Most of the members showed a tendency to have good friends both on and off the floor (a good balance), but were more particularly , iented towards their own floor Continued on Page i The Union basketball teams Sl>'.'ept another double header on Wednesday night .. See pagf.' 5. Photo by Bill Erichson But to the residents of third floor Fox, the experiment continues. Its challenge, vitality, and ever-changing character are present every day. A new friendshi.p, relationship, or activity can happen and does quite often. · The co-ed floor is different. It is a success. Surprisingly enough. though, the most distinct quality of the floor is not in its being co- ed. In fact, the reality of girls and guys li-ving together is the most na.tural aspect of it. The sexes live together in all other' periods of life, so it is cot:npletely natural for them to do so now. It is • Ill other students. Most of the t ;ationships are as desired by the floor members of each other, with most people having close social friends. Although a few kids indicated a desire for intrafloor dating relationships, only two such relationships Continued on Pagel As a result of the instances last term where windows were broken in South College and West College by snowballs, a new policy has been initiated. Effecti-ve immediately, anyone caught throwing snowballs at dormitories will have their ID•s revoked and turned in to the dean's office, where 11 $5 fine will be charged. Any datmages caused by snowballs will also be paid.

Page 2 CONCORDIENS/S, Frfday, Fehruary 2. 1973 ~·~~----~--------------------------------~~------~-4--------~------------~------------~-- Damn It AIH Incompetence is a word laden with nuances and· charged with emotion. Assistant Dean of Students Sheila Beanf may indeed be incompetent. Yet it is our intention to make our feeli..ngs lucid and to be certain, to our own satisfaction, that our feelings will not be misunderstood nor misrepresented. .If Barb Dewey's story on Mrs. Beam makes one point leap to the fare it is that the job of Director ol Housing is one that is unwieldy, demanding and, we feel, too hnmense in both time demanded and knowledge needed for any one ptlrson to handle. Mrs. Beam does have dcfinit~.: shortcomings. and there is no one who will admit this more readily than will she. These shortcoming::. do, in our opinion. ~eriously affect the job that she has performed. Yet we '~i-ll not ask for her resignation, that is far too easy. It docs little good to remove an individual from an office if all of the problems remain as they were prior to the removal. '- Undoubtedly there are persons who could perform at a higher level of competency than has Mrs. Beam ... undoubtedly there are persons who are better suited for any position than those in the position of responsibility. ·The important question is whether or not any one person could do a significantly better job as Director of Housing than the present Director is doing, given the problems and strew'' of the office ·a~d the present housing· situation. The ans,.,, is a definitive \No.\ The problem, lies in the position, not in th.; individual asked to fill the post. What is needed is a re:distic Jttitude on the part of all administrators. Wha ( is needed is a sense of concern for students. This general rack of concern is the force operating to subvert the condition ,.,f students, and this lack of concern is one held by virtually all members of this college's administration. We have reached the point where there is literally no administrator whom we feel we can :rctst. Each individual seems set on a course of self-preservation, relegating students and faculty to the background of his conceptual framework. We have no respect for this administration, and this bother§ us. It will serve no purpose to crucify Sheila Beam; indeed it will serve no purpose to crucify any individual. What is needed is a thorough and realistic evaluation of the administration as a whole, for it is a body with one supposed purpose: the ·education and well-being of the student body at Union College. It is becoming increasingly apparent that we have no set purpose at this institution, and no guidelines for those in positions of responsibility to follow. As long as this is the case, administrators will continue to cater to their own egos and their own desires, leaving the students and the faculty (yes, even the faculty) behind to wallow in the mud ... royally screwed with no place to turn. a.m.r. g.s.b. New Doors For Davidson, Fox by ANOV PEARCE fvl rs. Sheila aeum, assistant D-ean of Students. ha~ announced the upprO\ul of expenditures lor nc~A- front doon for Fox and Du\idsun dormitoric~. Along \.~ ith the doors. there will be a rnajo1 0\ crhauling ol the rox ancl D:l\ idson lounge~. l he total cost or these prujec'ls will he approximately S21.500. ami the) should he completed by April. The plans .fur the ne\~ t ront doors have been i.n the making for the pa:;t fe\\ years. [he problem is security. lhe prcsllnt glass doors. are .easil) forced open even when they are locked, and this poses a pro[)lem which has been steadily increasing in severity. Mrs. Beam stated that Fox and Davidson have needed new front doors for five )ears. She acknowledged that \security is a big problem on campus, let's face it.\ Students have been complaining for a long time about the lack of security. The present doors, which are not considered adequate, are blamed for the bulk of the recent thefts being ·experienced in Fox and Davidson. People have c0mplained about \townies\ walking in at their own pleasure. When these two dormitories were completed in 1965, thievery was not a problem, and tpe doors were not designed to keep people out. As thefts from rooms and lounges has increased, more criticism has been leveled at the efficiency of these doors. Locks were installed but have proven to be woefully i nadeyua te. Therefore, the doors will be replaced by specially designed ones. constructed of heavy duty steel, with glass plates. There will be no outside hinges, thereby thwarting anybody who might tamper with them. Mrs. Beam is confident that these new doors will provide \positive security for students.\ Soon to be replaced The cost of the Fox-Davidson doors (Fox and Davidson being the only dorms on campus with this 111ajor security problem) will be approximately $16.500. The money is not availa~le to Union College out of its reserve funds. In order to secure the capital. Dale Timberlake, the College comptroller, reyuested the sum from the Morgan Guarantee Trust, which is authori7ed as the trustee for federal funds coming to Union for use on Fox and Davidson. When the two dormitories were being built, the college applied for a. federal loan, with the Morgan Bank as the slated trustee. The money supplied f-m the doors will be employed to purchase six sets, enough to cover the entrances Jor both of the dorrns and the fraternities situated In these buildings. As for the Fox-Davidson photo by Bob ~ax the lobby of each of the two dorms. Concordy repor·tecl the plan as \having four l;iasic purposes. These include p rotccting the existing furniture against further vandalism, to provide adequate lounges in Fox and Davidson, to provide game areas in Fox and Davidson, and to provide alternative study areas ... \ ALthough a relatively small ameunt of money has been authorized to complete this project, Mrs. Beam is confident that with the help of student labor. the new lounges will be wnstructed. She stated that many students have expressed a desire to work i n t his undertaking. Maintenance will be Performance In Housing 0 f f • · Lounge. Project t~e idea be!ong~d . Ice to the Head Resident Advisor in Fox House, Lewis Kinter. The proposal. reported in Concordy on September 26. 1972, will be taken verbatim. The plan calls for the construction of two partitions extending from the corner of each mailroom to the corner 0f the existing partition in experimenting with many ideas as t0 how student aid can help facilitate the building of the lounges. One such idea which has gained popularity is for students to help transport several of the materials necessary, such as cinder blocks and cans ·Of paint. Mrs. Beam is happy with these suggestions and stated that ··students can help in many ways. They can paint the wa lis Contin~ed from Page l RAs Who have gone to her with suggestions about housing. it seems to me, are duped. When rm told what goes on during a discussion of a problem's possible solution. I can never understand the teller's satisfaction. For example. an RA recently discussed with Mrs. Beam the tdea of North College's going co-ed. She began by telling me this was an example of Mrs. Beam's good intentions. which finally meant she was not against making Bronner House a co-ed co-op. Bronner House (North End) accommodates 12 people! Well. she'd like to put kitchenettes and carpets in South and maybe make Richmond a co- CONCORDIENSIS founded at Union College in 1877 . -- - ~ Editor-in-Chief. ....................... George Bain ' News Editor ............................. Tim Cain Managing Editors .......... : ......... Rita Morandi Dave Strom Features Editor .· ......................... Al Reisch Sports Editor .. ; .................. Bruce Batchelder Photo Editors . . . . . . . . . . . . . ............ Les Kernan Jeff Weilburg Business Manager ................. Michael J:Hurley National Advert\ising .................. Stephen Kelly Subscriptions ....................... Mike Bernstein Contributing Editors ... : .... , ...... Peter Bickerman Louis S. Snitkoff Office Staff Phil Alcabes Doug Carpenter Gary Lovett l.llyria Puharich Dan Rothblum Rohin Waring Rill West oncordiensi~ ,, puh \fled ,·,cr~ tu<·,J.r~ .rnd lmla~ dmrng !Ill' 'dwnl ~,·ar· ~\n>rt Ullflll!! L'\,lllll/l;ill<lll and \ .IL'all<lll rcn •• d, I\>) I lie 'llltkllt O!ld) (I( t 111<111 Col!cg,·. SchcllL\L'Iild). \ \ \alr,>nal .rdl,\r!l l<'l''.<''<\lll.rlriL'. '\.,~rnn.rl l·duralrnnal ·\dlt\rll'lll!! s,·nrL\L'. Inc Cnllc•)!l' l'uhlr,Jwr' lh'.PI<''L'Iltilll\c. 'alrnnal f ducalrnnal -\d~c·rr\rll!! :-,,•ri!L'L'. lnL· .. '·' C I dr!l>ll;tl OlltL'L'. O!d (i 1 m. ('nr<>ll ( 1 >11C!!L' Puhlrcatrnn OIIIL\L'. lh,· . .lc\\l'h \\,uld l'uhlr,·altnlh. 7. I Si.atL' Slrccl. s,·h,·nc·cradl. '\ y 12JIJ7 .. 1-lh-~.156. lnlclcd Ill lhL' :-.dll'IIL'L\l.id) post olllt\L' .,, •:,•,·nnd Clir\ Mail '11altl'l\ Suh\·nptrnn 2(l,·rnh .1 r<>P 1 5~ ·' )L'al dch1cr.:d .• m\ ncrc rn I he ( lnrtcd State,. l>eadlmc j,,r all ruJl}. \lhrrh musl ht• t)pt·d and duuhlc•·,pan•tl. 1> 7 p.m. '\' Monda\ , nd I hur,dal at the Concord~ <lilt.:,-. ahnH' Old t ·hapcl. . ·)ffic.: tdcph11nt' nunlOCI' I' J7D-t>J55. i\>tll lhL' Ill! ICC,, <1111} Ill ll>c' ,,,, \lunda) and 1 ttursda) night,. tor all ,•ditorr;JI lllalt,•r,. c·all till\ <'UIIul·tn-dul'l ar .N.1- . • n4v; lor rnlorm;~trnn call Student 1\L-tu itll'' 011 i,·,· at .170-6 !IX. . . ed dorm all of which completely avoids ti-le question of North going co-ed. I pointed that out a·nd she agreed with me, hut wasn't it fine of Mrs. Beam to discuss co-ed dorms'? Writing this, thinking about it again, is as frustrating as running around asking for information. Speak to Provost The potentially controversial aspect of this article is ·not a nc\\ issue. It simply concerns .t·be question of incompetence ·- a common administrat·ive problem. Mrs. Beam's position is unique because her job, specifically, is to work for and with students. and the value of her decisions can only be decided in regard to their affect on us. It's our responsibility, as students directly affected by her decisions, not to complain to each other but, if we want anything done, to speak directly to the Provost. If the RAs are satisfied with a n.ice lady who sits down and chats I guess it would take a proldarian uprising to \Ban the Beam,\ if that's what we want. I tend to agree with local critics who have claimed we like· to complain and don't necessarily want to change anything. If things got better, what would we talk about'! Or write articles about'? The voices and bumper stickers have disappeared perhaps because something threatened to get better. * * * * The International Relations · Club and the Non-Western Seminar invite you to attend a lecture by Mr. Stewart Scheuer on \The U.S. and Japan- The Best of Friends on a Collision Course Again!\ on Monday, February 5, in the Social Sciences auditorium at 8:00p.m. ·· certainly.\ Robberies In South Prompt New Locks Four rooms in South College were broken into Tuesday night. A total of $57, two watches, and a ring were stolen. It was pointed out by residents of the two floors on which the four burgled rooms lie, that the locks on the rooms were not broken. At least two of the rooms were \definitely locked\ the night the to bheries took place. It was suggested by one of the burglary victims that the lock on his door was either picked or opened wlth a pass key. These robberies apparently prompted the institution of a new security system in South College by Director of Security John Kleinkauf. There are new locks on the building's three entrances, which will be locked every night at II :00. Only residents with room keys can open these locks. The doors will be reopened every ~ morning at 7:30. The fall term's campus prowler pleaded guilty to a reduced charge of simple trespass and was given a conditional discharge in court on January 23. The prowler had pleaded not guilty to the original charge of criminal trespass, and in trial changed his plea to the reduced charge. . The conditions of the discharge forbid his presence on campus property. He is now in a drug rehabilitation center until officially discharged. In reference to these robberies and the occasional acts of vandalism in South College, K.leinkauf said that .. That the crnly way we can stop this is if all students keep their eyes and ears open.\ This may cause some inconvenience, Kleinkauf said, but '\an active student body'; is necessary to completely halt the vandalism and robberies. · tHE MINUTES OF THE STEERING COMMITTEE MEETING OF JA.NUARY 22, 1973: Tbe meeting coitv.ened at 1):3() P.M. in the Beta Lounge. \Rob Ingersoll was present to answer any questions pertaining to the Squash Club. :After discussion, the Steering Committee voted unanimously to ratify its constitution. The meeting adjourned at 10:0() 'P.M. There will be an open meeting of the Steering Committee on February 5, · 1~13 at 9:30P.M. in Hu. 116. Dis(u$sion of the constitution willtake place at this meeting. PLEA.SE PATRONIZE· OUR ADV.ERTtSE\RS .

{ . f' ~ .... 1 ;/· . i ... .'\ ·- . CONCORDIENS/S, Frida_1·. Fehn1ar;t' 2, 1973 Page3 The Natural Environment On Coed Floor .continued.from Page 1 present·ly exi~L One other inter.estmg point - (although pwbably of littl~ interpretive value) is that '\co-eqs\ have higher cumulative indexes and study less than the average student on the single· sex floors. · Indeed~ these observations acre true. There is a group consisting of at least twenty of the \co-eds\ who regularly spend late evenings and many weekends doing things together. One night there was a game of musical chairs in the hall,. a trip to the Varsity Inn, a night at fhe roller skating rink, plus many an informal get together for smoke, drink, and conversation. There are few inhibitions among floor members, as the closeness prevails even between the sexes. The advantages and justifications for considering Union·~ co-ed floor such a huge success is obvious_ Living in such a nat ural and friendly atmosphere is one of the most healthy environments for the typical insecure, screwed-up college student. Many a shy girl or guy has. learned to relate and open up whh members of the opposite sex. The open doors and friendly music all add to the sense of community. If you as·k one of the members where he lives, the answer will invariably be something like \our floor\ or \the co-ed floor,\ rather than third floor Fox. The final question now is why the success, and can it be RESIDENTS GATHER FOR AN INFORMAL FLOOR MEF.TING_ photo by Bill Erichson Traffic: Supergroup by ROBERT SHUGOLL Traffic's history is marked by bursts to the height of public attention then a fall fo11owed by a ret urn with something fresh and exciting. The group was· formed in 1967 by Steve Winwood, the teenage \genius\ who gained widespread recogn.ition as guitarist. keyboard player, and lead singer for the Spencer Davis Group. After· making· four hit ~ingles, including \(iimme Some Lovin\ and 'Tm a Man,\ Winwood left Spencer Davis to form a. band with. three friends who lived near him in Birmingham, England. With Dave Mason, Jim Capaldi, and Chris Wood joining Winwood. a single entitled \Paper Sun\ was recorded, soon to be followed by their first album. Mr. Fantasy. So Traffic was born. Between this premier LP and their next, Traffic, several classics. including \Mr. Fantasy,\ .. 40,000 Headmen,\ \Feeling Alright,'' and \You Can All Join In\ emerged. Following their third record. Last Exit, th~ group parted. Winwood jumped around from Blind Faith to Ginger Baker's Airforce to a solo venture_ In 1970. Winwood, Capaldi, and Wood rejoined forces and re'!~orded John Barleycorn Must Die. Traffic became active again a year later with Capaldi giving up his drun1sticks to Jim Gordon in order to concentrate on vocals and lyric-writing, while Rebop K waku Baah was added on African drums. Mason, too, joined the act upon his return to England from the U.S., to do a short tour from which came the Welcome to the Canteen album. Next on the agenda was an American tour and Traffic's first American release on Island Records, \The Low Spark of the High-Heeled Boys.\ Coming to the present, Steve , Jirn. and Chris. along \\ith new group members David Hood (bass) and Roger Hawkins (percussion). have just completed a new record, Shootout at the Fantasy Factory, and are in the midst of a 1973 tour ofthe United Sttes. Shootout at the Fantasy Factory is evidence that Traffic is a supergrpup and as such will distribute nothing less than Grade-A material for the public's consumption. This album is not overwhelming, yet it has superb yuality and consistency. Ste\c Wjnwood's production effort is nearly flawless and his songwriting outstanding, but it is the whole band that makes the music work. Traffic sounds as tight and as smooth as ever: except For the album's first tunc, the title song, they've settled into a more easy going, slightly jancd up style. On that first number we're introduced to the pounding rhythms beat out by conga man Rebop Kwaku Baah. It seems that since Santana rose to popularity a few years ago, more and more rock bands are using this sound; the congas have added a welcomed nc\.\ dimension to Traffic's music, The next song. \Roll Right Stones,\ is the longest cut ( 13 minutes). It is an excellent song in which each musician gets his licks. Featured are Winwood's piano, Wood's flute, and Capa.ldi's fine harmonies. The tempo of the tune itself interestingly switches speed at various points. The one drawback on \Roll Right Stones'\ is excessive repetition at the end. Side Two is mellower than the first, containing three fine songs: one acoustic. one jauy. and one a slow rock tunc. Although Jim Capaldi's lyrics arc hardly mind- opening. Winwood uses his pleasant and pure Yoice \cry well. He is one person that knovvs how to sing words· correctly. not just mouthing the lyrics, but really expressing them. repeated and expanded? The kids on third floor Fox worked hard and in their determination have made the floor succeed. Many of them are similar types of people; although there have been differences, the differences have been put at a lower priority than community feeling and security. H could happen aga.in s<:>mewherc else with other pe~ple. It should . happen again. because floors like these help make the Union College experience all the more natural, true-to-life, meaningful, and most importantly, enjoyable. The R.A.'s, Boh Bernhardt and Maria S!owiac=ek photo by Bill Erichson New Channel to Open for Student ·faculty Feedback bJ LOl}IS S. SNiTKOFF In a recent letter to Concordy, Professor Daniel A. Driscoll . (Electrical Engineering) wrote of a plan which could open channels for stud.ent~facul.tj. communication on academic affairs and teaching methods at Union. The program, instituted for a trial period at the University of Illinois, is called \S.T.A. F.!-.\. an acronym for \Student-to- Teacher Action Fast Feedback.\ The primary motivation for its inception was student concern with instructional methods in the School of Engineering at Illinois, and Professor Driscoll that such a program impkmented and useful Union . be-lieves can be here at STAFF would involve a student committee which hears any student complaint concerning an academic problem thought to be at least partly dw: to irtadeq ua te instruction a! methods. The student STAFF committee will meet and speak with the plaintiff in an attempt to pinpoint the exact problem. Th~ defined problem is then tak~n b) STAFF to a number of ·•expert instructors\ who \\ill. from their O\\'ll teachi.ng expcn.ence, recommend a solution so the problem may he a\erted by the student and the instructor in the future. The basis of the potential efficacy of STAFF is that it will then inform instructors. confidentially and 4uickly. that u .problem exists and that. in the past, certain methods have hccn successful for other faculty in dealing with a similar problem. Each case handled by STAFF will become part of a perpetual file (without the name of either the student or his\' instructor) [rom which recommendations for future cases may be drawn. Marowi tz Hainlet Furth.er .. STAFF can demonstrate to students that they can affect change if they take u responsible. conscientious interest in their own academic affairs. It must he emphasitcd that STAFF cannot sene as an evaluation. critique. or judgmenL M 0 ' ount1es bySAPPHO I despise Hamlet. He is a slob, A talker, an analyser, a rationalizer. . Like the parlour liberal or the paralyzed intellectual, he can describe every facet of a problem, yet never pull his finger out. Is Hamlet a coward, as he himself suggests. or simply a poseur, a frustrated actor who plays the scholar, the courtier, and the soldier as an actor (a very bad actor), assuming a variety of different roles? And why does he keep saying everything twice? And how can someone talk so pretty in such a ·rotten country with the sort of work he's got cut · out for him? You may think he's a sensitive, well-spoken fellow, but. frankly, he gives me a pain in the ass. This poetic policy-statement is offered by Charles Marowitz, artistic director of the Open Space Theatre in London, in the preface to his adaptation of Shakespeare's Hamlet. The Mountebanks of Union College are preparing a production of Marowitz's version, under the direction of senior Bob Harders. Marowitz's approach to the character of Hamlet is obviously one of cynical disapproval, and his disdain extends t'o his treatment of the play as a whole. Following are Harders' own comments on how this affects the structure of his production, culled from a recent on-set interview: \Marowitz has created a script that defies conventional theatrical interpretation. He has termed the play a collage, meaning that we .tre exposed not to a chronologically-narrated story but to a series of juxtapos,ed images which hopefully offer us a finn I impression involving character relationships. The problems Newest posed for both actors director are tremendous .... and It's sole purpose is for the charrnel'ing of information. \The Marowitz Hamlet can perhaps more productively be compared lo\a dream than to our waking reality as most of us understand it. Life consists of changing realitiell, but in The Marowitz Hamlet the shifts are stylized, without the time between them to logically justify (according to normal thinking) contradictions in behavior· and attitude .... \The Marowitz Hamlet also dismisses the sanctity of Shakespeare's work. But I think the dismissal is indirect and not the sole purpose of the project. As part of the process of compiling this script, Shakespeare's play was reorganized, characters were omitted, chronology was dispensed with. and the story, as focal point for the ac~ion, '!Vas thrown out. What is left are fundamental human .relationships and the problem of expressing them onstage. This is the primary concern o(The Marowitz Hamlet as I see it.\ The cast is a strong one, with Paul Delfin as Hamlet, Ber.narcl Carey as Fortinbras, Keith Kibler as the Ghost, Laura Chakrin as the Queen. Mark Walsh as the King, Peter Tarshis as Polonius, Victoria Darling as Ophelia, Gene Gouss as Laertes, and John Collins and Paul Johnson as Rosencrantz and Guildenstern. There will be an open dress rehearsal of the play on Tuesday, February 13, at 8 p.m.: the play will officially open on Wednesday the 14th and will run through Saturday the 17th, all performances at 8 p.m. in ~ott Memorial Theater. Non- stUdents will be charged $2.00 admission. This Hamlet promises to be a very powerful and moving experience. and seats in the smali theater are likely to go very quickly, so the Mountebanks are asking everyone to please reserve their tickets at the box office (phone: 370-6.1.53) as so.on.as possible. In a discussion with Professor Driscoll earlier this week, he said that a STAFF system could be instituted and maintained at Union with a minimal investment of time and energy. The only requirement is three or four interested students who will form the committee. Driscoll said that. although most faculty arc concerned whh their Linebacker ratings, a system such .as STAFF would compel a professor to seriously evaluate himself. Linebacker, he said, is an after- the-fact evaluation; STAFF could handle problems before it is too late. In a preliminary discussion yesterday, Dean Herbert E. Wylen viewed the proposal with enthusiasm. \There is,\ he agreed. \a need for communication and feedback between students and faculty here, and this would be one way to achieve it.\ The entire idea of feedback is the basis of the new college \withdrawal\ pol icy. added Wylen. Under the new rule; a student must obtain the signature (not the approval) of his instructor before he drops a course. The reasoning behind this. according to the Dean, is that if a student drops a course for reasons other than illness the instructor deserves to k no·w what. if anything, he i.s doing wrong. This is precisely the aim of STAFF. Sharing the hclicfs of Wylcn and Driscoll, I think that a program such as STAFF could be '1.-ery helpful in the . realm of academic here. Armed with the support of Dean Wylen. I rroposc to puhlicite the rossihilities of instituting STAFF at l'nion as soon as possible. Further information and specilks may he found in Concordy (and elsewhere) next \\eck. In the meantime. am student who sees the need (or student-faculty communication and feeuhack is urged to hecomc imolved. Please call me at 370-4561 iltlmediatcl\. . .

.. CONCORDIENS!S. Friday, Fehruary 2,_!_!!7}. Schema of Union's Governance System ---------------------------------------------------~~~--~--~--~~ - .~ \.· Board of ' Faculty Coums. ' ' \. ' , , , / , Trustees ~ ·~~· ~~ \ \ ' ~ \ President . '~ All appts. -f !;' ~~- ..... - _..,. __ ~ ..... ----~~ . \ ** \\ COLLEGE SENATE* Agenda Committee ~ ' ~, ' ' \' \' ' . ' \ ~'J!\'o\\.!i_n.. -.• - Mtgs. Alumni Ad Hoc CQDlttls. ! College· · Committees ' .--------- ,... ,111\ ' . ' . ' ' . I ' '~ . ..! ' I '.1 ! Center (or Div.) Mtgs. Fac. Comm. on Comms. I I * Provide fer referenda Steering Committee St. Comm. on Comms. I Student .... , .__c_o_l1_m_ns,... _..,. ** Exclusive of budgetary matters Key to the Diagrams ____ , indicates .an advisory relationship whether by .appointment or election. · COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP 1972-73 COLLEGE SENATE Faculty: Division 1: Nelson, Evans, Stineback_ Division II: Jonas, Kershner, Sharlet Division Ill: Roth, Schaefer, Seiken Division IV: Ketchum, Driscoll, Zimmerman Administration: H. Martin, chairman; Lichterman, Malloy, Weifenbach Students: Bardsley, Cassella, Kauth, Sacerdoti, Wolfe, F aga, Hartman COLLEGE COMI\111'TEES ACADEMIC OPPORTUNITY Faculty: Daniels, chairman; Aubrey, Butterstein, Kenney, Ling, McNett, Pearce, P<Jtts; Wernette, Bick (on leave) Admin: Hannon, Maras, L. Moore, Reid, H. Smith; Wylen, Davis (ex. off.) Students: Dize, Kern, Kessler, Lyle, Preuninger, Willis Admissions Faculty: Kilburn, chairman; Galantowicz, Hansen, C. Jones, Ketchum, Kusterer, McMurray, Pikul, Schaefer, Walker, Wilson Admin: Admissions staff (ex. off.) Students: DeSaiz, Karotkin, P. A. Miller, Sabatt, Willis ATHLETICS Faculty: Kersnner, chairman; Allison, Harlow, Sheffer, T ornga, Werner Admin: Martin Students: Fine, Garabedian, Heilberg, Kritzer, Rosen, Wilder BUDGET AND PRIORITIES Faculty: McNamara, chairman; Allison (one term), Fairchild, W. Martin, Nichols, Shanebrook (spring), Shinagel, Stineback, Thimm Admin: Enteman, Lichterman, Timberlake Students: Billak, Riehl, D. Robbins, Spellman COMPREHENSIVE EDUCATION Faculty: Lambert, chairman; Berk, Driscoll, Loughlin, Thomas Admin: Wylen Students: Glasser, Kessler, 1,.-uxenberg, Williams COMPUTER SCIEN <:E Faculty: T. Schwarz, cl).airman; Berthold, Cutter. Hartwig, Hoffman, Hoiska, Hull, LaBarba, Maciatiello, Phaup, Roulier, G. Williams Admin: Daniel Students: Fox, Grant, Waring CONDUCT Faculty: Nelson, chairman; Gillette, <Joble Admin: Beam, Malloy Student$: Goldberg, Just, Lauer, Wardell ===:!, indicates the binding. nature of the decisions in the direction of the arrow. CURRICULAR AFFAIRS Faculty: Seiken, chairman; Finklestein, Goodheart, Lewis, Panlilio, Scaife, Thomas, Ullmann (fall, winter, Underwood, Wells (winter and spring) Admin: Lichterman, Schmidt, Wylen Students: Fishman, Levinson, Mancuso, Siegal, Stone DEVELOPMENT {with sub-committees for Buildings and Grounds, Girling Center and Searls House, Security and Safety) Faculty: Huntley, chairman.;....BeVier, Evans, George, Harlow, Maddaus, G. Williams Admin: Pearson, Usher Students: Morandi, Nadherny, Rudigh, Tavino, Sportman, Schwartz ·Staff: LeRoy, Mills EDUCATIONAL INNOVAUON Faculty: Panlilio, chairman; P. Allen, Gado (fall), Seiken, Norman Walbek Students: Roth, Eppler ENVIRONMENT Faculty: George, chairman; BeVier, Dalgleish, Lape, Schaefer, Underwood, Urban, Zimmerman Admin: Carman, Decker, Welch Students: Baker, Connors, Nielsen, Poellmitz, Weilburg FACULTY AND STAFF BENEFITS Faculty: Pilcher, chairman; Eisenstadt, Prosper, Sowa, Stone Admin: MaGill Staff: Gleason, Duto GRADUATE STUDIES Faculty: Griesinger, chairman; Jonas, Ketchum, Klemm, Ludwig (winter and spring), Roth, Yee, Hartwig (fall), Birecka, Lewis (Liaison CAC) Admin: Lichterman, Timberlake, Weifenbach Students: Schwartz, Slavis HONORARY DEGREES Faculty: Peterson. chairman; BeVier, D. Bittleman, Herman,. Sheffer Admin: Pearson Students: Calender, Seife LIAISON AND GOVERNANCE Faculty: Craig, chairman; Gati, Nelson, W. Schwarz Staff: McManus, Neuhaus Students: Bickerman, Bullard, P. Johnson LIBRARY Faculty: Hansen, chairman; Astiz (winter), Birecka; Bristol (fall, spring), Craig, Frosch, Testroet, Tolan Students: Conley, Mitchell, Taylor SPECIAL EVENTS Faculty: Peck, chairman; Curtis, Gado, George, Stephenson, Nancy Walbek, Wilson Admin: Johns<Jn Students: Kass, Pinkston --~) indicates appointive elective voting participation. ,_ ....... ~ S1JB~COMMITTEE - RELIGIOUS ACTIVITIES . Fac~lty: Gillette, chairman; Leach Admin: Miller, Murphy Students: Schwartz, Terry STUDENT AiD Faculty: Aubrey, chairman; Girdner, Kent, Kilburn Admin: Maras, Timberlake Students: Jones, Pfifferling . FACULTY COMMITTEES -ACADEMIC FREEDOM, TENURE AND PROFESSIONAL CONDUCT Fac:ulty: Rristol (1973), W. Schwarz (1975), W. Stone ( 1978) ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON SALARY, PROMOTION AND TENURE Faculty: Finlelstein, chairman; Huntley, Reece, Russ, Stineback, Urban Admin: Enteman, Lichterman Students: Bernhardt, ldelkope, Sherman COMMITTEE ON COMMITTEES Faculty: Gado (1974), chairman; N. Allen (1975), Butzel (1974), Roulier ( 1973), T. Schwarz (1973) FOREIGN STUDENTS Faculty: Roberts, chairman; B. Smith, Thurston Students: FitzAlan-Howard, Richmond HONORS AND FELLOWSHIPS Faculty: Reece, chairman; McNamara, Murphy, Russ, C. Swartz, Tidmarch Students: Brussman, Donald, Markell, Perlstein RESEARCH Faculty: Rappaport, chairman; Elliston (spring), Ga.iiar, Gracey, Klemm, Potter, Sharlet, Titus, Ullmann (fall, winter) · STANDING OF STUDENTS Faculty: N. Allen, chairman: Butzel, Nelson, Russ, To biessen, Warde Admin: Lichterman, Malloy, Schmidt, Shupe, Wylen Students: Aines, 1\lifanz, Small, Sussman STUDY ABROAD Faculty: Thurston, chairman; Astiz, lngvarsson, Roberts, Schrrtee, T. Schwarz, Stone, Weick Students: Goldberg, Karotkin, Seife 'STUDENT COMMITTEES COMMITtEE ON COMMITTEES Students: P. Corwin, DeCesare, Quirk, Sostek ELECTIONS Students: Dolan, chairman; Bridger, Bullard, Downsbrough, Schwartz, Vieira, Waring SOCIAL Students: Shugoll, chairman; Brustman, Cook, Corwin, Fein, Forsdick, Manning, ~artini, Miller, Milsom, Sherman, Winpick ·Continued on Page' . I I I I , 1 i. ! '

Friday, Fehrumy 2, 1973 Hoopsters Outclass Trinity 67- 55; Frosh Denio Leads Attack by BILL KILLEN With freshman guard John Denio playing his best game of the year, the Dutchmen hoop team ran their season record to 7- 4 in outclassing Trinity 67-55 Wednesday night at the Fieldhouse. Denio poured in 21 points and looked smart and confident in directing the Garnet attack. He also played tight defense, making several steals ·and even led an occasional fast break, unseen before in Garnet play this year. In fact, this was the first game Union won out of the backcourt this season. Chuck Abba rang up . 12 points, giving the Garnet backcourt half of the team's output, while the Bantam guards could manage only nine points and did not handle the hall well under pressure. Trinity's frontcourt, though, showed 6'4\ Nat Williams, who was the .games leading scorer with 28 points. Only his two free throws produced any points from outside his operating range of 5 feet frorn the basket. He also pulled down 13 rebounds but gq( little other help as the Garnet managed to control the boards, esp.ecially on the offensive end. The game was styled in typical Union fashion as Trinity folded ea,rly under the man to man pressure defense. Mike Doyle tapped in a basket for Trinity to bring the Bantams to an 8-8 tie, but Union hit on nine straight points, six on Bacher jumpers. Trinity then fought back to 23-21 with five minutes left in the half behind Williams' play underneath and an impressive basket h,anging goaltending~ technical foul on Bacher. But the T:dnity personnel had neither the talent, desire, or coaching to stay with the Garnet and another nine point flurry cap.ped by . Denio's steal and breakaway three point play actually put the .. game away for the evening. By halftim(i it was 36-25 and there was more of the same in the second half as Union pulled out to 47-29. Trinity then gave up their zone to no avail as they could move no closer until the Union subs came in to finish it off. «> The Garnet failed to shoot well once again, hitting on only 25 of 75 shots for 33%. There were other good signs besides Denio's play, though. Luke Dillon saw his first action since his knee injury almost a month ago. Charlie Gugliotta hit for 8 points coming off the bench and Tom Combs seemed unaffected by the healing torn tendon on his shooting hand. Thus, Union moves into February in their best shape in over a month. With Combs healthy and Gugliotta available, tlle Garnet are five deep in the frontcourt and with ·Denio's emergence and Dillon's return to play with Abba, the Garnet have three top guards for the first time since Bill Carmody was injured at the start of the year. All the guns will be needed as the Dutchmen are at Utica tonight, face Drew here tomorrow and have three games next week. With only one loss in January the prospect of a very successful season is on the horizon. Frosh Roll Ove·r Trinity, 86- 61 by BILLY DeB EAR second half, and caused a The freshman Bantams of technical to be ca,!lled on Coach: Trinity traveled to (J nion Scanlon. This led the Union Wednesday night, and in the long mentor, who has yet to coach a run proved to be as bad as their loss in any sport this year, to varsity counterparts, permitting remark that the technical was the Union an · 86-61 victory. first good call of the game. This Although Trinity hung close witicism was as g.ood an during the initial ten minutes of indication as any of the overall action, trailing only 22-20, it disdain for the refs on the part of seemed as though the Garnet both teams. But the calibre of the were toying with their opponents Trinity team was as poor, as they and waiting for the proper were too busy sulking because of moment to blow the visitors off the calls to play ill the game. In the court. That moment didn't fact, in two instances, Trinity come until the second half, but players were downcourt sulking the Gamet still played well while Union was putting the ball enough . to open l~p a 40-26 in play. margin by halftime. Steve Kelly, The frosh received a good all- Who has been on a torrid scoring around game from Dave spree of late, led the first half Malkowich, who tallied nine attack with 12 points, while points and made several grabs of center John Raymond added 1 l. errant Bantam passes to set up Union scored six straight fast break baskets. Brian Breton · . points to operi the second stanza and Mark Gillum turned in fine Freshman guard John Denio, as Bill Henson began to hit his performances, · as they scored who led all Gamet scor~rs with shots consistently. But the play nine and eight, respectively. 21 points .against r:rinit.~·· that broke the game wide open However, scoring honors a:gain photo by Bdl Enchson came at 14:48 as Kelly an<! went to Steve Kelly, whose unton 1 Henson executed a perfect two· deadly shooting produced 24 G F T on-one fast break that brought points. Raymond enhanced his ~ ~ ;~ the crowd to its feet, and put the first half performance with seven Trlnltv. G P T I Wlllloins 13 2 28 .Doyle 3 2 a Garnet ahead, 55-30, points, to finish with 18, while \ 412 h . '1 7 21 Anot. er poor JOb on the part Henson added eight, to go with Sokolowsky S 4 14 ·Bacli.-,r Fenkel 2 It 4 Walker 'water& o 2 2 Abba. Klevlll 3 I 7 Deni D 2 ~ 1 ~ 6 ~. of the referees characterized the his numerous assists. · Gugliotta Totals !3 9 55 Totals . * * * Trinity Froah .. Union Frosl1. Haydasz Pickard Williams 8urre5!! Aro .. son -Rose RileY. Sowle Totnls G.PT GPT t1 2 2 \\are'W!i~l 1 0 2 It 9 2s Raymond 8 2 111 8 4 20 Kelly 10 4 lM o 1 1 Gllivm 2 4 B 3 II 6 Vln\or 1 2 A o 3 3 H~nson 4 0 8 1 o 2 Coppulu 1 1 3 1 o 2 Glil7er 1 0 2 Breton· I! 5 9 Mall<owlch A 2 1() 21 19 ~1 Total* ~ 2Q 89 CORkECTION- In Tuesday,'s \Concordy in particular, the track story .. on page 4, the name of the new,.sh~ put record holder was inadvertently misspelled. It should have read \Bill Mo,wery\ instead of \Bill Mowrey.\ tevrs Dave's Mens Shop 453 State St. (downtown Sc1le0«1tady) Frosh hoop center John Raymond, who points in the 86·61 stomping (~!' the Trinity frosh - Wednesday night photo by Bil( Erichson Page5 MARK ZULLO photo by Les Kernan Sports Profile Mark Zullo by MARK W. MINDEL With so much attention having been paid to Coach Walters and the Union College basketball team for the past three years (18- 3. '70-'71 and 19-3, '71-'72) the Union College wrestling team has been somewhat overlooked. This year's dual meet record of 4-4 and last year•s record of 6-8 have not helped pack Alumni Gym as in years gone by when grappling, not hoop, held the heart of the true Garnet rooter. However, Union has graduated only one contributing wrestler from the squad which in the '70- '71 season was 11-1-1. That year featured a formidable freshmen foursome of Mark Zullo, Howie Benedict, AI Calabro, and Pat Wardell who combined for over fifty wins among them. Union seemed to be set for four years of excellent wrestling squads. Then came last season's disappointments. The schedule was impossible, Calabro wrestled two weight classes heavy, and the breaks which had led to exciting victories the year before now seemed destined to go the other way. This year, Calabro &nd · Wardell are not wrestling, Benedict has been injured, and besides sopholllore Burce Freeman, one of the few light- weights who did not quit wre_stling, there is only one wrestler who has been a consistently brilliant performer. Mark Zullo, now a junior and for the second straight year captain of the wrestling squad, has quietly compiled a dual meet record of 36-7 over his two and a half years as master of the light- weights at Union, including an impressive 12 pins and 8 major decisions. Three of his seven career losses have come at the\ hands of the Pearse brothers, Ken and Dan, the 126-134 pound NYS champions; now graduated, from St. Lawrence and R.I.r. Zullo's records break down as sucl1. Freshman year he was 13-2, including an undefeated string of 12 matches to open his college career. He recorded three pins that year, and came up with crucial wins against Kings Point and Colgate, the latter on a strategical move to the 134 pound weight class. Last year Mark was 14-4 with five pins and his duties as captain ran the gamut from reorganizing morale to just about coaching the team. This season Zullo is off to a fine 91- start. His only loss came after his opponent, last year's Massachusetts High School champ, dazed Zullo with a - \potentially dangerous hold.\ Again this year he has shown great leadership to the team and has proven his dedication by wrestling at I 18 pounds seven times. He wrestled at the low weight once before in his career as asoph. Along with his outstanding dual meet record, Zullo has led his team to three consecutive Albany State Tournament Crowns by grabbing the individual 126 pound championship every year. He also finished second in the NYS Intercollegiate Invitational Tournament last year at 126 and went to the National Tourney, ,losing early to the eighth seeded competitor. Zullo's success comes from pure hard work. His best record in high school was 15- Hl' as a senior at Uniondale in Masapequa, New York. He finished fourth in Section 8 competition. Continued on Page i . - Levrs Dave's. Mens Shop 453 State St. ·(downtown Schenectady)

Page 6 CONCORDIENSIS.-Friciay. Fehrum:•· :?, 1973 Letters fc'l'l more large, \1. hite rocks or metal ,posts he better strategicall) placed ncar hoth ends of thi~ ~idc\'.alk. And I \'.ould also like to urge that any ~tudcnt~ \\IHJ To the Editor: must step off a sid~.:walk to IL·t a since now few people get the opportunity to play. if they get to play at all, it is better than what now exists as a system of play. We feel that this will alleviate the inconsistencies and will gi\c everyone equal consideration for play. I would like to shan: an student in a car pass. should experience \\ith the student hod) report the license number of tht: which I feel dcscnes l'arcful car to the campus ~ecurity police. attention. 1 know that if I :-ee another car * * * * Last Friday night, January 26. on this sidewalk. I \\ill do exactly To the. Editor: at I I :00 p.m. sharp. I \a~ what I urge, hut this time I \\ il'l We the undersigned have come walking in the direction of South not Jet the matter drop until to accept the deplorahlc state of College on the sid~.:walk 'Ahich appropriate diseiplinary action the physical cducatim1 facilitie!> goes by the flagpole on Lihrar~ has been taken. at Union College. In some l'a!>es Field. A small foreign car drme Sincere!), these facilities mav cwn he the onto the side\\alk at the south John Brewer '76 cau~u of a few Ja.ughs. One thing end and drove directly to\\ard~ which we cannqt accept though is me. I became \cry annoyed at * * * * the misuse of these facilities. this situati0n, as I feel that can Due to such things a~ should not use puhlic walk\l.ay~. To the Editor: Freshman Basketball pract.il'e, I stopped and remained on the A!> we have explained and intramurals, Varsity Wrestling, sidewalk, and this small <.:ar outlined in our letter to the and the individual student's <m n stopped in front of me. I Athletic Department, we lcel that classes. the gym is really onl;. deliberated that I could stand the use of the- handball- open for \fr>ee\ playin2 to most here for several minutes and \\ai! pactdleball court Union has, individuals for about two or for the driver to either hac!\ np should he reorgani/ed. At the :threl.! hours 'l'lei.!kday afternoons or dri.ve around me on the grass. mcm1ent the system leaves the and all day weekends. Due to the I decided she would prohahly opportunity for playing solely up crowded playing conditions, the drive around tne on the grass so I to. chance and the kindness of actual playing time is much less. stepped off the sidewalk and other players. As these are not Why then must maintainance walked to the side of the car to particularly strong factors to rely take approximately 3/4 of an ask her why she insisted on on, we hope that our new hour of \prime\ playing time to driving on the walkway. As soon proposal will he seriously remove the wrestling mat'? Why as I stepped out of the way she considered and supported hy the couldn't this have been done dro~;e forward right past me, Union community. during the early morning hours whereupon I hit the hack windo\\ Sincerely yours, when the gym Is not being of her car thinking she might Richard E. Gardiner '73 utili.t.ed? stop. She did slow down hut David E. Jones '73 Secondly. why wasn't the gym continued on her way. The * * * * open on Sunday, Jan. 14'! incident might haw ended then. To: The Athletic Department Granted, it was Super Sunday, except right behind this car \\a::, Regarding: Handball and hut the ten people outside the another small vehicle. This time i paddleball court gym around I p.m. didn't want decided not to step off' the On sevt:;ral occasions. we ha\c to wear a hole in their ·rug pacing sidewalk. hut to make the car come to the gym with the intent the floor waiting for the game to either drive around me or bach. of getting in at least a half an go on. The gym is open other up, hoping that he would do the hour of paddleball but due to the Sundays, why not this one'! latter. I stQpped on the sidewalk confusion as to the rules A third case of. mis.use also ready to jump aside if he chose to regarding use of the court if there occurs on the weekends. Often accelerate, hut he slowed dm\ n are several people waiting, we one enters the gym only ·to find to a crawl, humped me with his have only been able to play a fc\\ it unusea.ble due It> large humper, and stopped. rhis minutes in the last week. As we numbers of \townies\ who haw enraged me so much. that I see it, there are several reasons usurped it for their own us!.!. stepped back, memori;ed his for this. The first is the, Students usually take no license number, walked up to hb \winner's\ system whereby the initiative in dearing them off the window which was open. and winners of . a particular game floor, and we feel they shouldn't asked if he always drove on continue to play all comers until have to. Why aren't they treated pedestrian rhoroug.hfares. He they tire and then leave. by Security and the immediately drove off. and I Secondly, because there arc Administration in the same ;mmed;atoly cepocted h;m to cegulaciy -.heduled classes the man nee as any othec .\espassecs~ campus security. Within a Ycry open court time is limited. And Until some benelactor con~cs short tim<; we 'Were in the securit) thirdly is the use of the court by along, we must make due With office confconHng one another. I people who want to play the pcesent gym \t-up But so,n>c maintained that I had stopped. handball as well as those playmg common sense and consideration and he drove into me. He paddleba!l so that it is impossible by others in the college would naturally maintained that he had to play doubles if there are two make the gym Immensely more stopped the car, and that I had groups who each want to play useable. Lew Insler'76 walked into it. It was my word singles of a different game. Jim Thompson '76 against his so nothing could he Because we find the situaton Jim Mori '76 pro~;ed. and luckily I \\as annoying and not really to John Glover '76 uninjured. However. whether I everyone's advantage (also the Alan Schur '7() was the one who hit him, or construction of new courts is no Steve Andrews '75 whether he hit me is not the doubt· economically unfeasible) Mitch Silverman '76 crue;al matter. The po;nt ;, that we would like to prope., a set of How\'d Sowdsky '76 his car was on the sidewalk. a regulations that would be fair to Richard B. Thau '76 special thoroughfare designed all those who desire use of the Lew Kinter '73 especially so that pedestrians can court. Matt Swartz '73 walk in safety without having to I, Post a schedule for the week Brian Ziegler '7(, walk in traffic. His car should on Monday mornings, brokc.n Peter Weiner '7lJ not have been there at all. into .one hour blocks. (The Needless to say, the first car Athletic Department would of should not have been there * • * * course get first chance to reset\ c either, or an) other car. Wdl. court space for lessons. etc.) after a hrief volley of words, thi~ ••• , driver admitted that he was 2, At least two people m~.st Your letter has not gone Dear Donna, Lisa, June, Lynne, Nancy, Esther, Joan, Sue, Vicki, wrong in driving on' the sidewalk sign up for the court so that unnoticed. The Student Life and apologized. the security regular games would be played. Committee has been, and will officers issued a slight reprimand 3, No one could reserve court ~ontinue, investigating the and recommended that I drop time for more than one hour possibility of improving or the issue, and I complied. block a day. (However, if no one replacing Saga food service. However. I do not think that shows up after their hour is up, Hopefully something will be this should be the· end of the they may continue playing, hut done by Spring term. event. My room in West College cannot put their names on the ,.,~ -- .. overlooks Library Field, and I sign-up sheet. leaving it open for ~- have seen many students rapidly others.) move off the sidewalk hecausc ol 4, If two singles players wish a car or cars taking a shortcut to ask two other players to pia) between :'1/orth and South doubles, they may, but are under Colleges. At night I have seen no obligation to do so. headlights tra\erse this sidewalk 5, The '\WINNERS\ systl.!m at alarming speeds, and I am would of course he aholished oy infuriated at this .lack of respect these regulations. for the safety ol any students . B h (' h db II , . lk · , ·l'r k 1 . \' • 6. ot sports I.e. an a who may be wa mg ac r~m d addleball) will be equally the. .Ratheskeller or any other ~npre:ented by these regulations loc.ttJon. . as neither will have precedence I would ltke to urge, o: rather, . th th (Th old rule of implore that ~tudents With cars over ~ 0 er. e. b . 1 . d . h. .d Ik h 1 alternatmg sports WJII o vtous .Y not nve on t IS SJ. ewa , u be abolished by these new take the roadway around the 1 . ) • d . . d regu atwns. campus. (I can un erst.tn . . pedestrians taking shortcuts. but 7, The s1gn up sheet shall be for heaven's sake why can't you posted at the court along with other st·IJ ''lts since you'rlJ the set of regulations here Levrs .. Dave's Mens Shop 453 State St. (downtown Schenectady} CulerinK to Parties, BanqulJis C/amhakes, Weddings KELLY'S RESTAURANT AND GRILL 501-503 Hattie Street Schenectady tel. 016-5059 Should you have any further complaints and. or ,o;ugges,tiom. ahout studt:nt life. please leave a note in our mail box in the Student Activities Office. or see one of us in person. Leslie Herman, 352 Fox, 346- 9'692 Valerie Hoffman, 214 Richmond, . ~~9~1 Student tire Committee: Jerry Jaiven, Sigma Chi, 346-9582 Judy Male, 352 Fox, 346-9692 RobinWaring, 312 Fox, 346-9304 Continued from Page 4 STUDENT UFE Faculty: D. Moore. Sutter, Wheeler Admin: Malloy Students: Hoffman, chairman; Herman, Jaiven, M;.~le, Waring TAX Faculty: Robison, Steckler Students: Guida, chairman; Bridger, Calender AD HOC COMMITTEE ON RACE RELATlO!'IS Faculty: Tobiessen, Underwood Admin: Malloy, L. Moore Students: Clements, Faga, Kingham, Rowe, J. Smith, Timms Ji'ACULTY PATENTS COMMITTEE Faculty: Hoffman, chairman; Panlilio, Rappaport, Sheffer Professor James Q. WiJson, from Harvard Univ.~rsity, will speak on \Heroin and Public Policy in America\ next Tuesday evening, February 6, at 8:30 p.m. in SS016. Professor Wilson is Chairman of the Department of Government at Harvard and a former Director of the Joint Center for Urban Studies of MIT and Harvard. He has written a number of books and articles on urban government, crime, Jaw enforcement, public policy, and poJitical attitudes. His latest book ~s entitled \Varieties of Police Behavior,\ and among h1s recent articles are analyses of the problems _of court reform heroin abuse, and. university governance. In ' . . ~ .1967 he was Chairman of the White House Task Force on Crime and today he is Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Police Foundation, His latest publication was in last Sunday's \New York Times Magazine,\ and he comes to Union the day after the Harvard Government Department meets tQ decide Jhe fate of Henry Kissinger's position in the Department. COLLEGE A RCO 717 NOTT ST. (Near VanVranken Ave.) EXPERT REPAIR SERVICE tevrs· Dave's' Mens Shop 453-State St. (downtown Schenectady) IS NOW IN PROGRISS SAVE AT LEAST 2 0% ~~~' prle .. We o,.r a flnt ael•dlon of winter '- • SU.TS e TOPCOATS It OVERCOATS e SPORT COATS 8 SLACKS 41 SUIU118AN COATS 8 e SPORT SHIRTS 8 kNIT SHUtTS • CARDIGAN SWEATERS e PULLOY.ER SWEATERS >,•\ driving a c:.r, go around'!) Since / proposed. . douht th~t any verbal imploring We realize that this system wJJI •vii. do any good, I urge that a limit the number of players, but PLEASE PATRONIZE · OUR ADVER11SERS • NECKWEAR alid many other llenisl ~ .,; - u, ·-- ............ ,__,., \''; ·~~------------------~ v e



Page 8 • * • • There wil1 be a PYE meeting Wednesday night at 7 \).m. in Silliman Lounge, which is in the basement of the infirmary. People are still needed for paper recycling and other projects. * * * * Anyone interested in the formation of a noncredit English Seminar in the spring term please contact Margie Bucheit at . 346- 8043. Reading list will be designed by the students and faculty in the Seminar. Current faculty enthusiasm seems optimistic. Would like to find . some students who are also. * * * * There will be an Open Meeting of the Steering -Committee on February 5 at 9:30 P.M. in HU I 16. A general discussion of the constitution will be held then. * * * * Burroughs WeHcome Company (Pharmaceutical Company) will be in the Placement Office on Tuesday, February 20, 1973. They are interested in males and females regardless of degrees. Please sign up in the Placement Office if you are interested. * * * * General Dynamics wiH ·be in the Placement Office on Friday, February 23, 1973. They are interested in seniors with E.E. and M.E. Degrees. Please sign up in the Placement Office if you are interested. * * * * The RPI Players .present Ann Jellicoe's comedy .. The Knack,\ also known as \The Knack, and How to Get It,\ on Feb. 16, 17, 23, and 24 at Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute. Show time at the 15th Street Lounge is 8:30 p.m. Tickets are $1.50 and may be purchased at the door or reserved by calling 270-6503. (The 1 Sth Str~! Lounge is on Routes 7 and 40 in Troy across from the old armory.) PROCTOR'S Wi-~g STATE ST.. SGHENECTIWY Jan 23 • Feb 8 Waft Disney's Classic SWORD IN THE STON.E and The Silver Fox and Mr. Davenport Feb 9 · Feb 13 SNOWBALL EXPRESS Purity Isabella S f ® PH?.~!. ONC ¥Accuracy 527 Union St. Schenectady N.Y. Ph. 370-2300 WELCOME UNION STUDENTS RESEARCH MATERIALS All Topics · Send for your descriptive, up-to-date, 128-page, rna il order catalog of 2,300 quality research papers. Enclose $1.00 to cover postar;e and handling. RESEARCH UNLIMITED 519 GLENROCK AVE., SUITE 203 LOS ANGELES, CALIF. 90024 (213) 477-8474 • 477·5493 \We need a local salesman;' PLEASE PATRONIZE OUR ADVERTISERS CONCORDJENSIS, Friday. Februaiy 2. 197. 1 • • • • President Mattin is anxious· to provide with each issue ·of UNION'S WEEK a. ''news\ section which will give more detail about campus activities and scheduled events. The news section will communicate items of concern to students ·as well · as information. pertaining to social events and committee and group meetings. UNION'S WEEK is processed at Lamont House each Tuesday morning while .school is in session; therefore, a deadline for submission of items for the news section has been established, ·- not later than 4:00 p.;m. the previous Friday. Copy should be left in the Student Activities Office, typed and signed with the name of the person submitting the item and the telephone .number where this person can be reached. Please caU Mrs. Van Loan on 370-6165 if you have any questions or wish to discuss the project. * * * * Elections for H.ILLEL officers will take place at 8:30 P.M. Tuesday night in Hale House Lounge. It is urged that all interested people attend. BLITHER The Union College Coffeehouse will present Alan Stowell and Bob Field on Friday night at 8:30 in Old Chapel. Admission will be 50~~: and, as usual, coffee and doughnuts will be free, so come and enjoy! * * * * Seniors: draduation· announcements -- Please place your order as soon as possible with Mrs. Marra in Student Activities Office. Deadline is March 2, 1973. * * * * The Pine Hill lee Cream Company will give a presentation on a student summer job opportunity in the Tri-City area as an ice cream truck driver on Tuesday, February 6, at 7:30 P.M. in the Hale House Student Lounge. For working from April to September, one could earn in excess of $3000. For more information, call377-3582. ' . __ .., LeVI~S • Dave's\ Mens Shop 453 State St. (downtown Scheneetady) • • • • The Carver Commu'nity Center, locateq at 700 Craig Street, Schenectady, is ~n need of volunteer tutors to assist_ young people in grade school and high school Uunior nigh included) with their academic problems. The tutoring program now has all tutors meeting with the students during' the after-school hours, with the majority of the sessions being . held · in early evening. We are attempting to place some tutors in the schools during the day to work with the students during their free time. and study hall periods. Those tutors working with a grade school or junior high school student generally focus on ' remedial skills in re1.1<liog and math. Most of the high l>C)iool students have a m()re specific problem, such as biology or intermediate algebra. If you are interested in this program, conta·ct Raber! McAndrews at the Center.. The ~umber is .374-8456. Or eall Dave Stevenson at J72-0640. * * * * Matthew Troy, New Y<Jrk City · Cottndlman and Queen~ County Democratic leader, wil1 speak in Old Chapelon Monday, Febru11ry 5 at I :30 p.m. The sul:,ljectofTroy's talk, which is being sponsored by the Political Forum, is \Should New York City Be the 51st State?\ • • • • Before Saturday's Home Game Come To and try one of our fine wines We Have The Lowest Prices in New York State ' • people who can: If you can spend some time, even a fe\v hours, with someone \vho needs a hand, not a handout, call your local Voluntary Action Center. Or write to: ~'Volunteer,\ Washington, D.C. 20013 We need you. The National Center for Voluntary Action. ~ \'~ Q advertising contributed /or the public.gpad 0 o<. 11 ,.c'\\ e \. f • I ·~ r ' p tl s h a v s p a a a t c j f ( t I

Pa~e 8 * * * * There will be a PYE meeting Wednesday night at 7 p.m. in Silliman Lounge, which is in the basement of the infirmary. People are stili needed for paper recycling and other projects. * * * * Anyone interested in the formation of a noncredit English Seminar in the spring term please contact Margie Bucheit at 346- 8043. Reading list will be designed by the students and faculty in the Seminar. Current faculty enthusiasm seems optimistic. Would like to find some students who are also. * * * * There will be an Open Meeti~>.g of the Steering -Committee on February 5 at 9:30 P.M. in HU 116. A general discussion of the constitution will be held then. * * * * Burroughs Wcllcomc Company (Pharmaceutical Company) will be in the Placement Office on Tuesday, February 20, 1973. They arc interested in males and females regardless of degrees. Please sign up in the Placement Office it you are interested. * * * * General Dvnamics will be in the Placemeni Office on Friday. Februarv 23. 1973. They arc intereste-d in seniors with E.E. and M.E. Degrees. Please sign up in the Placement Office if you are interested. * * * * The RPI Players present Ann Jellicoe's comedy \The Knack,\ also known as \'The Knack, and How to Get It,\ on Feb. 16, 17, 23, and 24 at Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute. Show time at the 15th Street Lounge is 8:30 p.m. Tickets are $1.50 and may be purchased at the door or reserved by calling 270-6503. (The 15th Stree.t Lounge is on Routes 7 and 40 in Troy across from the old armory.) Purity Isabella s ~®PH~~~ONC 'i Accuracy 527 Union St. Schenectady N.Y. Ph. 370-2300 WELCOME § UNION STUDENTS ~ ~~~~Krf.~~ RESEARCH MATERIALS All Topics Send for your descriptive, up-to-date, 128-page, mail order catalog of 2,300 quality research papers. Enclose $1.00 to cover postage and handling. RESEARCH UNLIMITED 519 GLENROCK AVE., SUITE 203 LOS ANGELES, CALIF. 90024 (213) 477·8474 • 477-5493 \We need a local salesman\ PLEASE PATRONIZE OUR ADVERTISERS CONCORDIENS!S, Friday, Fehrum;_1· .?, /97? ... • * • President Martin is anxious to provide with each issue of UNION'S WEEK a \news\ section which will give more detail about campus activities and sclleduled events. The news section will communicate items of concern to students as well as information pertaining to social events and committee and group meetings. UNION'S WEEK is processed at Lamont House each T11esday morning while school is in session; therefore, a deadline for submission of items for the news section has been established, not later than 4:00 p.m. the previous Friday. Copy should be left in the Student Activities Office, typed and signed with the name of the person submitting the item and the telephone number where this person can be reached. Please call Mrs. Van Loan on 370-6165 if you have any questions or wish to discuss the project. * * * * Elections for HILLEL officers will take place at 8:30 P.M. Tuesday night in Hale House Lounge. It is urged that all interested people attend. BLITHER The Union College Coffeehouse will present Alan Stowell and Bob Field on Friday night at 8:30 in Old ChapeL Admission will be 50q: and, as usual, coffee and doughnuts will be free. so come and enjoy! * * * * Seniors: Gradua.tion announcements -- Please place your order as soon as possi blc with Mrs. Marra in. Student Activities Office. Deadline is March 2, 1973. * * * * more Dave's' Mens Shop 453 State St. (downtown ScheneCtady) • • * • The Carver Community Center, located at 700 Craig Street, Schenectady, is in need or volunteer tutors to assist young people in grade school and high school U unior high included) wi.th their academic problems. The tutoring program now has al:l tutors meeting with ·the stwdcnts during the after-school hours, with the majority of the sessions being held in earls evening. We are attempting to place some tutors in the schools during the day to work with the students during their free time and stwdy hall periods. Those tutors working with a grade school or junior high school student generally focus on remedial skills in reading and math. Most of the high school students have a more specific problem, such as biology or intermediate algebra. If you are interested in this program, contact Ruben McAndrews at the Center.. The number is 374-15456. Or call L>avc Stevenson at 372-0640. * • * * * Matthew Troy, New York City · Councilman and Queens County Democratic leader, wiH speak in Old Chapel on Monday. Febrl!lary 5 at I :30 p.m. The subject of Troy's talk, which is being sponsored by the Political Forum, is \Should New York City Be the 51st State?\ . . ... . Before Saturday's Home Game Come To Moffett's Liq,uor Store and try one of our fine wines We Have The Lowest Prices in New York State ' • . people who can: If you can spend some time, even a few hours, with someone who needs a hand, not a handout, call your local Voluntary Actton Center. Or \vrite to: ~~vblunteer,\ \Vashington, D.C. 20013 Weneedyou. ofitQ \'~ advertising contributed for the public good \ou Nc'\e The National Center for Voluntary Action. ·.rJ ! r~ (~ '· i ' l4 i [ I : ' r r •• j ., ', ' ~ , I I J. ~r· r i 'I, !. ' ! t .L r ll -r· ,f • 1 ( I •: ' r r

' ool or his Jil • I ... r ' r~ , founded at Union College in 1877 Vol, 10~, No.· l8 Assault~. Rais.es Security Concern by G.EORGE RAIN \There is no 100 percent foolproof method to prevent this type of incident. I can onlY emphasize one of the best pte¥entive measures not traveling alone at night.\ So _commented Director of Security John H. Kleinka1,1f after last Sunday morning's incident of an assault on a Union coed in the vicinity of Norrh College. The student had attended a fraternity party Saturday night, accompanied a group of people by automobile to a pizzeria afterwards, and had been let out of the car near North to return to her off-campus residence at about 3 A.M. concerned for each other in order to diminish that possi-bility. Union is located in an urban area and borders on the fringe of parts of Schenectady where the risk of ct:{ine is high. The area to the north ang west of campus is the most d~ngerous, and the section north of N9H Street is a potential source of trouble, Mr. Kleinkauf pointed Ot!l¥. He identifies the most rlsky points on campus at night as alo.ng North Terrace Ume beyond North College and the area along the road Continued on Page 2 Tuesday, February 6, 1973 20 cents Science Center Still Dark THE TRANSFORM!:'R photo by Jeff Weilburg by JEFF WEILBURG .The lights in the Science and · Engineering Center are dim,.and so is the prospect of full power being restored to the building before the middle of next week. The problem started with the short power failure that struck the campus last week. While the exact cause of the trouble is unknown, the surge of power, delivered by the Niagara-Mohawk lines to the transformer in the basement of the building. created an overload in the middle coil of the giant three-phase transformer. This coil, amidst the applause of the popping fuses (whic·h are about four feet long and as thick as your leg) cheerfully self- destructed, and in the process damaged the other two coils, rendering the whole apparatus useless. On North Terrace Lane, a dark, four-door car approached the girl, and the driver asked if she wanted a lift. When she declined, he came out of the car, beat her, and forced her into the car. After the assailant released her, she made her way to the Richmond Security Desk, where the guard on quty notified the Schenectady police. Hamilton Hill Tutoring Each coil weighs about 1000 pounds; each is composed ·of thousands of turns of insulated wire, and each of the turns is precisely placed. Together they supply the entire science complex with the I 50,000 Watts it uses at peak hours. · The police took the victim to Ellis Hospital, where she was treated and released. They are now investigating the case but had only a sketchy description of the assailant as of Monday noon. Mr. Kleinkaufhas \dreaded this moment. We've been :coed' .. f0r two-and•a-half year~> now, and we've been extremely fortunate so far. This has been our first instance of assault.\ But he said he could not see how such an incident could have been preventep \even If we had ten times the present number of security men.\ The \irre&ponsibility'' of the lack of concern for a female student shown by not returning her to her room annoys Mr. Kleinkauf. He emphasized the l}eed for students to be on the · lo(lk-out for the welfare of each other and warned against a \feeling of complacency,\ which ought to be elimin11ted by Sunday's incident. He hopes that another assault never occurs but realizes that it could happen~ students will have to become more by DON KRONE The 1960's were a time of great change in American society, but perhaps the most affected institution in this upheaval has been education. We emerged from the scientific surge of the Cold War to the humanistic concern of LBJ's Great Society, and then to a total lack of such concern under the 'Mad Bomber.' In this time the reverence for the American school system has slowly decayed .to the poiRt ~-where we~ are.,- on .. the thresh·old of dis-learning. At Union College, in the true spirit of academics, we too often forget about the real world outside our gates. Jonathan Kozel came and went and we failed to heed his warnings about the destructiveness of the inner-city school and its chaotic and corrosive imp~ct on the disadvantaged of America. However, some have attempted to answer the call in an effort to comb.at the deficiencies of elementary and secondary education. It is too easy for a student in an elitist institution to shroud the cold empirical world from his eyes. On a recent visit to the Carver Community Center - a United Fund supported or~anization on Glee Club Performs Feb.18 .The Union College Glee Club and the Wheaton College (of Norton, Massachusetts) Glee Club will present Arthur Honegger's symphonic psalm, King David, on Sunday afternoon. February 1'8, at 4 p.m.in the Union College Memorial Chapel. The performance will 'be under the direction of Union College's Hugh Allen Wilson. King David was horn out of Honegger's musicalaccompaniment for the play King David by Rene Morax. The music was so well received in its 1921 debut that Honegger rearranged it into the present oratorio. The musical numbers were linked by brief narrations ~nd organized into three parts. The text of the work tells of David the shepherd, the king, and the prophet. Featured in the performance will be Carol Randles as alto soloist and the Witch of Endor; Eric Herbst. tenor; and Ellalou Dimmock, soprano. Onion College President Hawld C. Martin will narrate. Honegger's original orchestration will be followed. Carol Randles has appeared as soloist with the Albanyand Vermont Symphony Orchestras and has given numerous recitals in this area and in Canada. Mrs. Randles has taught voice at the Emma Willard School in Troy for twelve years and is now also teaching at the College of Saint Rose in Albany. Her most recent appearance at Union College was in April as alto soloist in J.S. Bach's St. Matthew Passion. Ellalou Dimmock has _appeared throughout New England in performances which nave included works from the medieval period to the contemporary. For twelve years she was soloist with the Camerata of the Museum of Fine Arts in Boston. This season she has appeared with the Wheaton Trio at Wheaton College, where she is Associate Professor of Music in Performance. Tick'ets for King David will be available at the door. Admission is two dollars for adults and one daollar for students. Union College ·students with identification will be admitted free of charge. Schenectady's Hamilton Hill - I met with Larry McAm;lrews, the center's Educational Director, to gather some information for a story on his tutoring program. An interview with the affable Oneonta State graduate reaffirmed a belief that we must do more than just talk about real world social problems. A Blither article ih the Jan. 16th issue of Concordiensis asked for \volunteer tuturs to assist young people in grade school and high school Uunior high included) with their academic problems.\ The response to that announcement consisted of one interested stude'nt who wanted to tutor but thought the walking distapce too far for his feeble body. We cannot take this attitude (we are probably all to blame) 'if we really want to confront and correct the educational ·problems of the disadvantaged student. Some 25 junior· high and elementary students from Steinmetz, Martin Luther King, and Horace Mann schools are enrolled in the center's tutorial program. The tutors presently working include engineers, physicists, and secretaries from the Knoll's Atomic Power Laboratory, and several housewives and teachers ... They (the students) gain · a lot out of a one-to~ol)e relationship with concerned persons,\ said McAndrews, who once worked for the Schenectady public schools in a small capacity but became dismayed with the bigness and bureaucracy involved. McAndrews' frustrations led him to take a job as an aide in the center's day-care operation )now in jeopardy due to Nixon'sslashing of the social welfare sector of the budget). This carried him to his present position as head of the tutoring program. During the afternoon McAndrews runs the library at the 700 Craig St. facility. Over 30 per cent of the Hamilton Hill community is black, and the Due to the loss of power in the Science Center and the subsequent shift of classes to the Humanities Building, the Red Cross blood drive will be held at an as yet unspecified off- campus locniion on Thursday and in the Gymnasium · on Friday from 11 a.nt. until5 p.m • Please give blood despite the confusion, and call Mrs. Marra at 370•6118 for information about Thursday's location. entire area encompasses the lowest socio-economic status in the country. In the evening McAndrew tutors students in math and remedial reading. \Students mostly ask for help in math but their fundamental problem is reading. It takes a while to get to know the kids because the whole process has to be more than spoon- feeding knowledge.\ Steinmetz (for 7th-9th grades) has a prescriptive reading laboratory approach, but McAndrews feels \it just cannot really attack the heart of the problem. Students just can't relate to machines as well as they can to concerned individuals.\ McAndrews would like to start a R IF program (Reading Is Fundamental) because \the kids have more incentive to read books they own themselves.\ However, funding seems impossible at the present so McAndrews Is interested in building up his tutoring staff to accommodate between 35-50 students. If anyone is interested in doing more than just complaining about the system they should contact McAndrews at the Carver Center at 374-8456 after 2 P,M. During the first few days after the blowout, Maintenance, assisted by workmen from the G.E. service shop and Niagara- Mohawk, were working 24 hours a day in an effort to remove and rewind the coils. The hectic pace has slowed somewhat in recent days, since Niagara-Mohawk, the manufacturer of the coils, has agrecu to wind the coils for the college at their plant in Buffalo. If all goes well, the coils will arrive at the College on Friday, and installation will begin immediately. If all goes well with the installation,. which is a tedious and delicate job, power wUI be restored to the buildings by Wednesday of the coming week. If, however, any problems arise In the manufacturing, shipping, or installation of the coils, we cannot expect any electrons to whiz through the wires for another two weeks. Besides the emergency auxiliary power now being delivered to the building by the small emergency Continued on Page 3 Tri-captain Mike Doyle paced Union's tll'o 11·eekend wins over Utica and Dreu· ~rith a comhined total r?f 35 poims. See page 4 for details on the l'arsity 1rim and another pair of ll'ins for tlu' und(~/(•att>dfrcslunen photo hy Bill Erichson SSS%%%%\%%S%%S%¥%S%biSSSSSSSS-S%%%%$SSi:SSSSS5

and or en in by [1 r .t ' ' . .~~ \ 1 i ' I j u r \ : .~ .• . \ l I .!. \f'. ~· . l j I . I ' l ' : !jf. ' \ ' I·. t .L r I. founded at Union College in 1877 Vol. 102, No. 28 Assault Raises Security Concern by GEORGE BAIN \There is no I 00 percent foolproof method to prevent this type of incident. I can only emphasize one of the best preventive measures not traveling alone at night.\ So commented Director of Security John H. K leinkauf after last Sunday morning's incident of an assault on a Union coed in the \ICII1Ity of North College. The ,tudcnt had attended a fraternity party Saturday night. accompanied a group of people by automobile to a piueria afterwards. and had been let out of the car near North to return to her off-campus residence at about 3 A.M. concentcd for each other iB order to dimini~h that possibility. tl niom is Inca ted in aH urban area and borders on the fringe of parts of Schenectady where the risk of crime i> high. The area to the north and west of campus is the most dangerous. and the section north· of :\ott Street is a potential source of trouble. Mr. Kleinkauf pointed out. He identifies the most rl:;ky points on campus at night a> along :\orth I\crrace Lime beyond :'\orth College and the areu along the road Continued on Page 2 Tuesday, February 6, 1973 20 cents Science Center Still Dark TH /:' TRA.V.\FO!Hfi:R photo hy JdT Weilhurg by JEFF WEILBL!RG .The lights iH the Science and Engineering Center arc dim. and so is the prospect of full power being restored to the building before the middle of next week. The problem started with the short power failure that struck the campus last week. While the exact cause of the trouble is unknown. the ~urge of pov.er. delivered by the l\iagara-!\1nhawk lines to the tramformer in the basement of the building. created an o\erload in the middle coil of the giant three-phase transformer. This coiL amidst the applause of the popping !uses (v.hich are about four ket long and a> thick as your leg) cheerfully ..,elf- destructed. and in the process damaged the other tv.o coils. rendering the whole apparatus u~elcs~. On North Terrace Lane, a dark. four-door car approached the girl, and the driver asked if shewanted a lift. When she declined. he came out of the car, beat her. and forced her into the car. After the assailant released her, she made her way to the Richmond Security Desk, where the guard on duty notified the Schenectady police. Hamilton Hill Tutoring Each coil weighs about I 000 pounds; each is composed of thou>ands of turns of insulated wire, and each of the turns is precisely placed. Together they supply the entire science complex with the 150,000 Watts it uses at peak hours. rhe police took the victim to Ellis Hospital, where she was treated and released. They are now investigating the case but had only a sketchy description of the assailant as of Monday noon. Mr. K!einkauf has \dreaded this moment. We've been 'coed' for two-and-a-half years now, and we've been extremely fortunate so far. This has been our first instance of assault.\ But he said he could not see how such an incident could have been prevented \even if we had ten times the present number of security men.\ The \irresponsibility\ of the lack of concern for a female student shown by not returning her to her room annoys Mr. KleinkauL He emphasized the need for students to be on the look-out for the welfare of each other and warned against a \feeling of complacency,\ which ought to be eliminated by Sunday's incident. He hopes that another assault never occurs but realizes that it could happen; students will have to become more by DON KRONE The 1960\ were a time of great change in American society, but perhaps the most affected in~titution in thi!> upheaval has been education. We emerged from the scientific surge of the Cold War to the humanistic concern of LBJ's Great Society. and then to a total lack of ~uch concern under the 'Mad Bomber.' In this time the re\erence for the American school system has slowly decayed to the point where we are on the threshold of dis-learning. At Union College. in the true spirit of academics, \lie too often forget about the real world outside our gates. Jonathan Kozel came and went and we failed to heed hi~ warnings about the destructiveness of the inner-city school and its chaotic and corrosive impact on the disadvantaged of America. However. some have attempted to answer the call in an effort to combat the deficiencies of elementary and secondary education. It i~ too easy for a student in an ditist institution to shroud the cold empirical world from his eyes. On a recent vrstt to the Carver Cummunity Center a United Fund ~upported organitation on Glee Club Performs F eb.18 The Union College Glee Club and the Wheaton College (of Norton, Massachusetts) Glee Club will present Arthur Honegger's ~ymphonic psalm, King David. on Sunday afternoon, February 18, at 4 p.m. in the Union College Memorial Chapel. The performance will be under the direction of Union College's Hugh Allen Wilson. King David was born out of Honegger's musical accompaniment for the play King David by Rene Morax. The music was so well received in its 1921 debut that Honegger rearranged it into the present oratorio. The musical numbers were linked by brief narrations and organi1ed into three parts. The text of the work tells of David the shepherd. the king, and the prophet. Featured in the performance will be Carol Randles as alto soloist and the Witch of Endor: Eric Herbst, tenor; and Ellalou Dimmock, soprano. Union College President Harold C. Martin will narrate. Honegger's original orchestration will be followed. Carol Randles has appeared as soloist with the Albany and Vermont Symphony Orchestras and has given numerous recitals in this area and in Canada. Mrs. Randles has taught voice at the Emma Willard School in Troy for twelve years and is now also teaching at the College of Saint Rose in Albany. Her most recent appearance at Union College was in April as alto soloist in J.S. Bach's St. Matthew Passion. Ellalou Dimmock has appeared throughout New England in performances which have included works from the medieval period to the contemporary. For twelve years she was soloist with the Camerata of the Museum of Fine Arts in Boston. This season she has appeared with the Wheaton Trio at Wheaton College. where she is Associate Professor of Music in Performance. Tickets for King David will be available at the door. Admission is two dollars for adults and one daollar for students. llnion College students with identification will be admitted free of charge. Schenectady's Hamilton Hill met with Larry Mc/\ndrc\J\s, the center\ Ed uca tiona! Director, to gather some information for a story on hi:s tutoring program. An in ten icw with the affable Oneonta State graduate reaffirmed a bclit:f thut we must do more thanjust talk about real world social problems. A Blither article in the Jan. I 6th issue of Concordiensis asked for \volunteer tuturs to assist young people in grade school and high school Uunior high included) with their academic problems.\ The response to that announcement con:-.isted of one interested student who wanted to tutor but thought the walking distance too far for his feeble body. We cannot take this attitude (we arc probably all to blame) if we really want to confront and correct the educational problems of the disadvantaged student. Some 25 junior high and elementary students from Steinmetz, Martin Luther Kin g. and Horace Mann schools are enrolled in the center's tutorial program. The tutors presently working include engineers, physicists. and secretaries from the Knoll's Atomic Power Laboratory. and several housewives and teachers. \They (the students) gain a lot out of a one-to--one relatiomhip with concerned pcr!>on~.\ ~aid McAndrew~. who once worked for the Schenectady puhlic schools in a small capacity hut hccame dismayed with the higness and bureaucracy involved. McAndrews' frustrations led him to take a joh as an aide in the center's day-care operation )now in jeopardy due toN ixon's slashing of the social welfare sector of the budget). This carried him to his present position as head of the tutoring program. During the afternoon McAndrews runs the library at the 700 Craig St. facility. Over 30 per cent of the H ami !ton Hill community is black. and the Due to the loss of power in the Science Center and the subsequent shift of classes to the Humanities Building, the Red Cross blood drive will be held at an as yet unspecified off- campus loc~ !ion on Thursday and in the Gymnasium on Friday from ll a.m. unti15 p.m. Please give blood despite the confusion, and call Mrs. Marra at 370-6118 for information about Thursday's location. entire area encompasses the lowe>t 'ocio-economic status tn the country. In the evening McAndrew tutors students 111 math and remcd ial read in g. \Students mostly ask for help in math but their fundamental problem i' reading. It takes a while to get to know the kids because the \\hole pro,;e~s ha~ to be more than spoon- feeding knowledge.\ Steinmetl (for 7th-9th grades) ha:-. a pre~cripti\e reading laboratory approach. but McA.ndrews feels \it just cannot really attack the heart of the problem. Studenb just can't relate to machines as well as they can to concerned individuals.\ \1c/\ndrews would like to start a RIF program (Reading Is Fundamental) because \the kids ha \ c more incentive to read books they own themselves.\ However. funding seems impossible at the present so McAndrews IS interested in building up his tutoring staff to accommodate between 35-50 students. If anyone is interested in doing more than just complaining about the system they should contact McAndrews at the Carver Center at 374-8456 after 2 P.M. During the first few days after the blowout. Maintenance. assisted hv workmen from the (i.E. service ·shop and :'\iagara- Mohawk. were working 24 hours a day in an effort to remove and rc\li ind the coils. The hectic pace has slowed somewhat in recent days. since :\iagara-Mohawk, the manufacturer of the coils, has agn:t'u to wind the coils for the college at their plant in Ruffalo If all goes well. the coils will arri\eat the College on Friday, and instullation will begin immediately. If all goes well with the installation. which is a tedious and delicate joh, power will he restored to the buildings hy Wednesday of the coming week. If. however, any prohlems arise in the manufacturing. shipping, or installation of the coils, we cannot expect any electrons to whi7 through the wires for another two weeks. Resides the emergency auxiliary power now being delivered to the building by the small emergency Contirmed on Page 3 ··-~ Tri-captain ,\.like Doyle fJOccd l 'niun\ fll'o IH'ekend 11·im m·cr L'tica and [)rei,. 11 ith a co111hinn/ total of 3'i poinls. Sec page 4 .for dctai/.1 c~n the ,·anitr a·in' and mwrher flair of lt·im.for the unde/i'atl'd /n•,hmcn. photo oy Bill Erichson S\>.%S-%%%%%SSSS%%SS%%%%%SS%'4%S%%%%%%!0illlS$'4%i3%%1

' '. Page2 •..201 CONCORD/EN SIS. Tuesday, Fehruary 6, 1973 Letters United States of America passed into law a flag code: \Resolved .. , Sec. 2 S.T.A.F.F. In Need· 0£ To the Editor: Recently I have become aware of rampant incompetence among the student workers in the West College mail room. I work in the Registrar's Office and sometimes I help sort mail which for some reason cannot be delivered. (a) It is universal custom to display the flag only from sunrise to sunset on buildings and on stationary flagstaffs in the opeH. However, the flag may be ~isplayed at night upon special conditions when it is desired to produce a .patriotic effect. More Student Cooperation The Student-to- Teacher Act ion- Fast Feedback (STAFF) proposal is still in need of student volunteers, according to its student coorinators. A few gems which have come my way last week: I. A letter with .correct name and school address, but mysteriously marked as being \not listed,\ 2. A letter dated December 6 which was brought up for checking February 2. 3. A letter dated January 24, marked \FTF\ - Fall Term in France - which 'outwardly seems to be an incredibly stupid inscription. lil addition, we regularly get letters without box numbers which are marked \not here\ or \not listed\ which, upon inspection, are found to be here and listed. It seems that whoever was sorting the mail just didn't bother to look up names in the directory. I hope something· will be done about this situation. Sincerely yours, Steven Jandreau, '74 * * * * To the Editor: On February 2, 1973. almost everyone in Schenectady realized that it was raining, but it seems that the administration of Union College did not notice this weather condition. This was demonstrated by the fact that, while it was raining, \our flag was still there,\ on the flagpole. Most likely, very few people took serious notice of this, since it flies 24 hours a day. In 1942, the Congress of the (c) The flag shou:ld not be displayed when the weather is .inclement.\ In 1968, Congress passed into law a penalty for breaking the provisions of the flagcocle- $.1000 fine or up to J year in jail or both. While Sect. 2 (a) doesn'tactually specify that it is illegal to fly the flag at night, even if it is spot·lit; it is considered outside the spirit of the law to do so without congressional permission, and is also thought disrespectful to both our flag and the country. . Is it too much trouble to give the flat its proper resp6ct? We feel that it isn't. Therefore, we call upon the officials of Union College to ensure that the f:lag will be raised atsunrise and lowered at sunset in accordance with the law, Mar~ Schever Gary Russ and a concerned group of Union College Students * * * \' Seniors: Graduation announcements -- Please place your order as soon as possible with Mrs. Marra in Student Activities Office. Deadline is March 2, 1973. * * * * James Q. Wilson, Chairman of the Department of Government at Harvard University, will lecture on \Heroin and Public Policy in America\ at 8:30 p.m., Tuesday, February 6, in SSO 16. Baker New Coach · contributions to our football program.\ The program, which is intended to provide a channel for information transfer on the matter of instructional problems, can b~; implemented by as early as next week if things continue as planned. ~he STAFF project, announced for the first time in ·Concordy last Friday, is student-run, although its success depends 1argely upon faculty cooperation. Logistically, STAFF will consist of a small committee of undergraduates which will meet with students having a complaint about the instruct,ional methods ·of any course at Union. The STAFF committee will try to discern the exact natme of the probem, and, once it is clearly defined, will seek the advice of instructors who are thpugh.t (by their chairmen or peers) to be particularly effective in handling academic problems of a similar nature. Once a possible solution is forwarded to STAFF by the faculty \expert the: solution will then be forwarded by mail to the instructor against whom the complaint was filed. The major asset of the STAFF procedure is that every problem will be handled as confidentially as possible .. The instructor will not know the identity of the student plan tiff; the faculty expert will not know the name of the student, or of 'the instructor against whom the complaint was filed. Similarly, this instructor will not know the name · of the faculty expert who suggests the solution. Each case handled by STAFF will become patt of a permanent file which may he used by the committee for future reference. After routine follow-ups in which the student plaintiff iscontactedto determine the efficacy of the recommended solution (if, in fact, it is implemented by the instructor), the name of the student and his instructor ar:e discarded, and only the problem and solution are kept in the file. Thus, STAFF may be used to criticize (or laud) any instruction!!! method, incases wher<e the student is reluctant to confront his professor on a personal basis. Although STAFF :is not intended to serve as an evaluation of any sort, it nonetheless allows the student to play a more responsible role in his .own education. Ultimately, the STAFF file could supplant the need for faculty AU student car owners whose license numbers have changed with the advent of a new year should report to the Security Office and· record the change on their registration forms. · * * * * Hutroughs WeUcome Company .(Pharmaceutical Company) will be in the Placement . Office on Tuesday, February 20, 19.73. They are interested in males and females regardless of degrees. Please sign up in the Placement. Office if you are interested. * * * * General Dynamics will he in the Placement Office on Friday, February 23, 1973. They are interested in seniors with E.E. and M.E. Degrees: Please sign up. in the Placement Office if you are interest~d. * * * * The R PI Players pres.ent Ann consultants, but at the outset, the student committee will rely heavily on faculty support. lnnq c.ase will the studen.t committee issue any recommendations With0ut consulting either a faculty member or its fi'le ·Of previous ca,ses. · Clearly, then, the success of STAFF as an effective mechanism depends upon serious student pa,rticipation as well as faculty understanding and cooperation, Extensive publicity (for students and facultyr is planned fer this week and next. Any student who wished to work for sr AFf is urged to calla student coordinatOJ: iinmediately: Kathy Mitchell, 370~ 1 2493 (107 North); AI McCI~Hand or Lou Snitkoff, 370-4561 (321 Davidson). Any student with an academic problem may call ' StAFF sometime next week. als.o known as .. The K.n~ck, and How to Get It,\ on Feb.\ 16, 17, 23, and 24 at Ren$$elaer Polytechnic Institute. Show time at the 15th Street Lounge is 8:30 p.m. Tickets are $1.50 and may be purchased at the door or reserved by calling 270-6503. (The 15th Street Lounge is on Routes 7 and 40 in Troy across from the old annory.) Assault Continued from Page 1 up to the buildings on Lenox Road, from the Maintenance Building to the Field House. He aavises that no Qne travel alone anywhere on campus and that everyone always be alert to suspicious persons. . Union College has announced the appointment·of Gerry Baker of Schenectady as a part time assistant football coach. Baker, a physical education teacher at Oneida Jr. High School in the city, has been head football coach at Schenectady's Linton High School for the past seven years. During that period he compiled a 30-20-3 record overall with his 1966 team undefeated 6-0- A 1957 graduate of Springfield College, Baker began his football coaching career as an assistant at Hudson Falls and after a year moved toG loversvi'lle H .S. as head coach. He left Gloversville with a 34-10-2 record after six seas9ns to take over at Rome Free Academy and there in two years, his club never lost a game, winning 15 against a single tie. He has been at Linton since 1966 where his teams have been noted for playing excellent defense. Jellicoe's comedy \The Knack,\ Basketball at 9-4 Doyle,·Bacher Star As an added measure of safety, Mr. Kleinkauf reminds all female students that if they have any qualms about returning to their dormitories after dark, they should call the Security Department, which will provide an escort back to the dorm. This service will be extended to include apartments within a reasonable distance from 1. . At Union he will work with head coach Gerry Everling, who said of his new assistant; \Gerry Baker is recognized by those who have seen his teams as a top-grade coach. He · is a fine addition to our staff and we are looking forward to his Baker will continue to teach in the Schenectady public school system. • • • * CONCORDIENSIS founded at Union College in 1877 Editor-in-Chief ..................... ~ .. George Bain News Editor ............................. Tim Cain Managing Editors .................... Rita Morandi Dave Strom Features Editor .......................... Al Reisch Sports Editor ..................... Bruce Batchelder Photo Editors .......................... Les Kernan ·Jeff Weilburg Business Manager ................. Michael J. Hurley National Advertising .................. Stephen Kelly Subscriptions ....................... Mike Bernstein Contributing Editors ............... Peter Bickerman Louis S. Snitkoff Office Staff Phil Alcab.:s Doug Carpt:nter Gary l.mctt lllyria Puharich Dan Rothblum Rohin Waring Bill West · foncordiensis '' puhlt;h,·d •• ,·,-r~ lu~'d•'' and I nda~ durin!! till' ,cfhlol 1car nn·rt dminp ,·-..umnation and '·ll.'<lli<lll P<'nmb h~ th<· ,,u,knl ·hnd~ ,,, l r'll<lfl Cnli~)!<'. Sch,•ne,·tad~. \ Y \atwnal oidlnli>~ll,!! tl'pre,,·nt;lllle. \.~tntml l·du<'Hilonal ·\d1crti'tll)! S,•r\tt'<\. Inc ( ·nlk·l!c' l'uhli'h'·\ Rq'l'<''t'llliiltll,'. \attonal lducatt\nal '\dlcrtt~lll!! Senti.'~. Inc \) (' I dti<'tial Olftt'<'. Old (i)m. l 1 nwn (\ l'ttl>ltcatton Olfll't'. I h,· .k111~h \\,111<1 l'uhltcatinn,. 7\ I Stalt' Strt'l'l. Sdlt'llL'ctadl. \.\. 12.1117 •. l.J/1-2.156 f-111<'1\'d 111 tit,· Sdll'llt•<·ta!l\ pn<t oflicc \' St:wnd n;,\ Mail \lal!t'l'.,'otllhLTlj'>linn 20 t'Cilh .I '\P) .s~ a ~, .. ; .. ddhcrcd <111~1\hcrc inth.: l'nit<•d State,. Deadline lor all cor~. 11hich mtt'l he 11 ~cd <tnd dtlllhk-'l''IL'<'d. \ : p.m ,,n !'vlonda~ and lhur,da~ atlhc Concord) of itt:<' . .thmt• Old Ch.tpd. Office tclcphnm· numhcr i,, .nO·nl55. hut the· offtct• '' \'\' tir W•L' <HI \1,uJda) and I hursua) nighb. Fnr all .:duonal tWtllt•r,. eall tlw ,·ditot-tn-dul'f at .W.1- 1640; for tnlormation call Stt!dent Actl\tli<'' Olfit'l' at _17().(l) IN. Continued from Page 4 Doyle went to work, looking like a professional among amateurs, and piled up 19 points in a quick span, 13 straight in a three minute period, before fouling out. After Underhill's heroics, the crowd went for Kevin Crawford who responded with four points. With time running out and Union three points snort of one hundred, Doyle fouled out and Walters appointed Luke Dillon to do the job. Responding to the challenge little Luke swished a 20 footer to register 99 for Union. Dillon became an instant hero as he intentionally fouled the Drew ballhandler with nine seconds to go so Union would get one more chance. As th_e free throw swis_hed\.in Combs mbounded to Demo who found CraWford streaking for the bucket. Denio's pass hit Crawford who banged home the clincher at the buzzer. If Ed Varno had called that traveling he would have been lynched! The Utica game saw Unionopen up a 32-19 lead which dwindled to 32-31 at the half. But behind Tern Bacher's 21, John Denio's 16, and Mike Doyle's 14 Union remained victorious. Union's streak will be seriously tested against tough Hartwick at Wrestling Continued from Page 4 triangulars in 4 days. 011' Wednesday they travel to Hobart, to meet their host and Binghamton. With 6 matches remaining before the end of the season. they must taRe both of these meets to hope for a winning season. Oneonta, Wednesday, and then.the campus. The telephone number is Dutchmen return to the Field 370-6178, or·6178 from dormitory house for contests against Ho.bart Centrex phones: · ''' Friday and Stevens- Saturday -----~--~--...,...--~ night. Indeed the propsect of a Ad hoc committees have been 'iUccessful season is here. established for the purposes of Box scores: Union Bacher Doyle Walker Denio Abba Utica G FT 10 1 21 Wllllcim$ 6 2 14 Owen 3 0 6 Benrtett 8 D 16 Wolfe 6 1 13 Spann Cloutier Kelly Davis Totals 33 o4 70 Totals * * * G FT 3 2 8 7 0 14 ~ 1 9 . 4 0 8 4 0 8 1 0 2 4 0 8 4 0 8 31 3 65 Union Frosh Utica Jl/ G FT G FT Raymond· 5 1 11 Reid 2 3 7 Kelly 4 o BMonfg<om ery 1 2 4 Hens on 1 0 2Karozeolfk 3 410 Henson 1 0 2Karozeollk 3 4 .1 D Vlnlar 3 0 6 Grant 1 0 2 G8ooum 4 0 8 Hill 2 0 4 Breton S 1 11 Gardner 3 0 6 MorclnoW!lkl 4 3. 11 Slymer 6 0 12 Malkowfeh 3 o 6 Mock 1 0 2 Coppulo ·5 1 11 Ingersoll 1 1 3 Glazer 1 0 2 Totals 35 6 76 Totols 20 10 50 ·orew JV Union Fresh · G FT ·. Anderso11 Brown Dorsey Levine Siegel Garr Marks Gillespie •Bradley 6 3 15 Kelly 3 3 9 Ra,mond 1 1 3 Henson 1 0 2 Mar'owskl 2 1 5 C~ppula 5 3 13 Glazer 1 0 2 Gillum 2 1 5 Vfnlor o 2 2 Mofl<owicll Breton Total$ 21 14 56 ·Totals * * * Union G FT Drew Shephard 2 4 8 Bacher Jonas 5 3 13 Doyle Osterhout 4 4 12 Abba Frankhouser 2 2 6 Denio CIJ3rlanl 1 4 6 Combs Brown 2 6 10 Gugliotta Rosow 1 2 4 Maisano Anderson 1 () 2 Olilon UpderhUI Crawford Walker Totals l9 27 65 Totals Levrs G FT 3 1 7 2 1 5 4 0 8 1 4 6 4 0 8 4 0 8 6 2 14 ~ 2 14 5 0 10 3 1 i 38 11 87 G F T s 1 11 7 7 21 .. 0 8 4 0 8 7 2 lb 1 3 fj S D JO l 0 2 1 1 .3 1 2 A 6 1 3 ~7 17 101 Dave's Mens Shop 453 State St. (downtown Schenectady). making recommendations on continuing tenure for Professor W.iiJiam W. Fairchild. of the Department of Mathematics. and Professor Delia C. Moore in the Library. All members of the Colle.ge community who may have useful inputs which will assist the committees in arnvmg at their recom- mendations are urged to make.- . them in writing to Professor . Thomas R. Hoffman of the Electrical Engineering .Department, Chairman of the Fairchild ad hoc committee, and Professor Frank Gado of . th.e English Department,. Chairman of the committee on Mrs. Moore. PROCTOR'S Wi~g . STATE ST., SGHENEGTADY • , 'Jan 23 .. Feb 8 Walt Disney's Classic SWORD I:N THE STONE and Tbe Silver Fox and Mr. Davenport Feb 9 • Feb 13 s,NQWBALl EXPR:ESS· .. ~ ... ,. 4; trl • ,. ~ .. •

- the vily wiii 111y >U t ber of ism ent llty on, :nts this vho · is. ItO( ·70~ \ md 321 an (:aU' md 17, aer :eet are at .ing on oss ox 1ce He me I at to ty, ale ny eir lid nt, iCk be ~ts lm · is 1ry • • • .. It CONCORDIENSIS,_Tue.l'day. Fehruary.r,; 1973 Page] Attention Big Brothers and Sisters: Becau~e of a \townie\ problem at b.fisketball games the Athletic Dep~rlment has in~tituted a $1.00· cover charge for all non Union students. You m!ly still . attend games with your litt'le brother; sister free of charge if you let the Athletic O{fice know a day in adVance so that they may have a ticket waiting at the door. * * . * * The Big Brother,s and Sisters are having a roller skating party at ·· Rollo-Rama this Sunday, February .IJ, from 2 to 5 p.m. T 0 reserve a spot call Nancy Reardon at 377-4994. See yotJ there. * * * * ihe next session of the Student- Faculty Bridge Clubwillbe:held oh February l3 in the H!ile House dining room at 7:45p.m. All those interested in attending are welcome. The results of the .last .~ourn:al11ent are as-follows: t Mike Levinson-Bob Feller 2. Bob :Lavin-Dave Gordon 3. Jeff Alifhanz~Denise Ruthenbe~g * * * * . Wanted (needed): Perso11 to wait .ot_ dishwash in return for meals. Lunch and Din net, Monday· to Frid:ay. Call 346-9330. (Psi Upsilon) \' * * * Come To A Dance Saturday night, Feb. 10 in the GYM, compliments of the. Social Committee. Admission free with a Union ·College l.D... Dance to FAST HURRY, that'sthenameof the bandl * * All students interested in movement a!J.d good JYhysical conditioning ar.e cordially invited to join a three-week workshop in Tai-Chi-Chuan, led by Ahmer Khan, beginning Tuesday, · February 6th. The workshop will be held on Tuesdays, Thursdays, and Fridays, from A:30 to 6:00 p.m., in Humanities 019. All interested should c<>me in tights and leotards or sweatclothes. No experience · necessary; come one, come alL Sign up in the Nott Memorial Green Room. Brought ' to you by the Social Committee and the Mountebanks. ·Levrs BLITHER Regulation$ for Use of Handball Court Beginning Monday, FePruary 5, 1973 I. You may reserve the handball court (on a first come first served basis for I hour per day. .(a) Minimum of two required to sign up (h) Failure to show will result in loss of priviliges for one week (if you are unable to make it call 370- 6284 and tell secretary) 2. The pair reserving the court may invite others in during their block of allotted time if they wish (not obligated). · 3. If no one shows up after a group's time .is up, they may continue to play but cannot sign up, leaving ~he period free for other possi'ble late-comers. · 4. ihe periods are generalty considered. to be from half past the hour to the nex.t half hour. Exceptions; ( I) Class Hours not conforming (2) Noon hours (faculty reserved) 5. Disputes will be rel!olved by a member of the Physical Education Staff. 6. Sign up sheets will be available the Friday prior to the week of play. The gym will also be open for students and faculty only from 12 noon to lO p.m. on Sundays unless posted otherwise. * * * * Freshmen have the opportunity to chose either the 14 or 20 meal plart now for the Sprirtg t~rm. Your Resident Adviser has the listing. If you do not indicate a choice, you will automatically be continued with the plan you chose for the winter. * * * * Tickets are now available in the Nott Memorial box \office fbr the coming production of The Marowitz Hamlet. There will be an open dress rehearsal on Tuesday the 13th, and performances Wednesday the 14th· through Saturday the ·l7:th, all b.egjnning at 8 p.m. Union students will be admitted free~ all others will be charged $2.00. Don'tget stuck on a waiting -list: reserve your tickets now. The box. office is open every after~oon until 5:00, and evenings from 7-9. Phone 370-6153. * * * * · The Idol's publication of its Ditve's· Mens Shop interview with author John Barth 453 State St. is now available free of charge in (downtown Schenectady) the Library and the Student '------------_........::;.;..--~;. Activities Office. FUR LIQUOR •••••••••••••••• AND WINE 5 JAy 5 Try : Billiard : § Jake : Lounge : ·~ 1 16. 7 Jay St. I § Lipstein's • -· RELAx - • ~ . . . . ·. : PLAY POOL E § -464 State Street § 1 Daily 1 0 _ 10 p.m. • & FR4-1 883 . ~- • Sunday 2-8 p.m. ; ~·~r.<r>~ .!!. •••••••••••••• . -BOULEVAR.D BOWL 1315 Erie Blvd. 40 AMF BOWLING LANES 374-4171 Bowl for Health LUIGI'S RESTAURANT SPECIALIZING IN Italian -American Food 1125 BARRETT ST. SCHENECTADY 016-9744 · b\n Sizzling Steaks and Chops Visit Our Cock tail /Jar Everyone: Here is your big chance to talk to your representatives on the Board of Trustees. Peter Pach and Tim McCabe will meet with all interested persons in Fox Bouse Lounge Thursday, Feb. 8, 1973, at 8:00 p.m. Why don't you drop by, for many of you will be surprised when you find out who we are. * * * * Weather perm1ttmg ice skating rink at Girting Center wiH be open each Saturday and Sunday from I to 9 ,p.m. 25 ce.nts admission, and hot chocolate. tea, and coffee are avaliable at 20 cents per cup. F0r private parties, contact Mrs. M ar.ra, 3 70-6118. * * * * Anyone interested in the formation of a noncredit English Seminar in the spring term please contact Margie Bucheit at 346- 8043. Reading list will be designed by tbe students and faculty in the Seminar. Current faculty enth:usias.tn seems optimistic. Would like to find some studentswh()c are also. * * * * Films on Umberto D.- Vittorio de Sica's 1952 film \represents undoubtedly the apex of what can be considered the first phase of the Italian neo- realism\ (Film Culture). An old civil servant lives in a cheap room with his sad dog. Only a pension stands between him and utter cl est it u t ion. A series of humiliations bring him close to suicide. He decides on merciful death for his dog and throws him in the path of a train. But the dog shows the wi:ll to live and Umberto decides to persevere, though he doesn't know how orfor how long. Not to be missed by anyone with an interest in film as a,rt. Wednesday, February 7. 2:30 p.m.; friday, February 9. 3:00 and 8:00p.m. Targets -- Now that Peter Bogdanovitch has gone on to such things as The Last Picture Show and What's Up Doc? people have forgotten this. his first and most interesting film. The story concerns a sniper in Los Angeles. It is an Campus- excellent study of ·violence; the scene in which the sniper runs loose in a drive-in theater provides a superb visual cllmax. Stars Boris Karloff. Wednesday, February 7. 7:00 and 9:00 p.m. Film Haps. Adtl)ission $1.00. The Boy Friend ~ Ken Russell, an outstanding contemporary film- maker, takes a flimsy but delightful play and turns it into a very witty and masterfully filmed musical. The subject, in a sense, is the sprightly pastiche of the style. Twiggy debuts - and is quite charming. Also features Glenda Jackson and Christopher Gable. Saturday and Sunday, February I 0 and II. 7:00, 9:00 and II :00 p.m. Film Haps. Admission $1.00. Eclipse Part of the Michelangelo Antonionni trilogy which catapulted the director to fame, this is also a complete film in itself. Monday, February 12. 2:30 p.m. Lab fee course. Sports Comes of Age by R. B. THAU In times of tension and stress the American . p~:ople have turned towards sports as an escape from real world problems. The sports wor'ld has represented a temporary return to the yeats when you were a child and playing ball was something you did solely for the enjoyment of it .. No matter how poorly things went in the outside world, sports.rernained the same. It was the last bastion of sanity, a place where 'the greedy paws of failure and frustration of the real world never .reached. Today, however. even !,>ports is no longer sacrosanct as the worst of society's evils have invaded this sanctity. The 1930'swere the golden years of sports as people turned to this alternative rather than face the Depression andtherise of Hitler in Germany. The athletic world * * * * WRUC ·Program Notes Tuesday 9-10 p.m. George Lipsky's \Performing Live,\ featuring Marcy Schwartz. Wednesday 9-IO p.m. New Albums with Chuck Rothman, featuring John Mayall's new double album \Down the Line,\ which includes Clapton, Bruceand Taylor. Thursday 9-10 p.m. \Now the War is Over What Happens to All These Songs?\ Sunday \The Turn Down Day.\ I 0-noon Footsteps with the Hangover Show. Noon-6 p.m. Classical. 6 p.m.-2 a;m. Jazz and Blues. Puri:haT:ii7s1 ~®PH~~~'NC ~ 'i Accuracy ~ 527 Union St. t Schenectady N,Y. Ph. 370-2300 WELCOME § & UNION STUDENTS ~ ·b-.~~~<Q . ._..,.,..._..:._. - RESEARCH MATERIALS All Topics Send for your descriptive, up-to-date, 128-page, mail order catalog of 2,300 quality research papers. Enclose . $1.00 to cover postage and handling. RESEARCH UNLIM1TED 519 GLENROCK AVE., SUITE 203 LOS ANGELES, CALIF. 90024 (213) 47'l8474 • 477·5493 \We need·a local salesman\ Lev.-s Dave's Mens Shop 4S3 State St. (downto\Vn Schenectady) responded with the creation of the Orange Bowl, the Sugar Bowl, and the Cotton Bowl, three of today's most prestlgwus pos~ season games. These class-ics were all established in the four year period betWe!!n 1933 and 1937, but were just the beginnings of a mass exodus to the world of sports. In baseball, 1931 saw the first Most Valuable Player award, while in 1933 the first All Star Game was played in Chicago and the Bears whipped the Giants for the first National Football League crown. The Thirties also saw the inception of the Sum van Award for the finest amateur athlete oft he year, and the Heisman trophy for the best collegiate football player. By 1936, even horseracing had responded to the call with the first Preakness run at Pimlico Racetrack in Baltimore. The 1930~s was a decade where sports v:as just sport!>, with no politics and no infiltration by big business. The story is totally different today, though, as sports serve as the safety valve for many of the public's hostilities. With the invasion of business and politics into American athletics, the entire conception of what sports is has changed. The Heisman Trophy has become big business, though only amateurs are eligible. All top candidates have a staff of agents working for them supplying various coaches and sportswriters throughout the nation with propaganda sheets about their man. Joe Thiesman of the Canadian Football League, changed the pronunciation of his name when he was at Notre Dame so that it would rhyme with the name of the trophy. Vida Blue threw away the past season squabbling over another fifteen thousand dollrs to be tacked on to his fifty thousand dollar yearly salary, when he undoubtedly earns at least five to ten times that in outside endorsements and commercial advertisements. In college football, where the games are supposedly played solely for fun, Ohio State's robust coach Woody Hayes threw a temper tantrum in front of a national television audience and broke a yard marker in half when a poor call was made against his team in the Michigan game of a year ago. Hayes showed that it didn't matter whether he won or lost, it was how he played the game. The crowds at games are no longer just innocent bystanders either, as examplified by several incidents at college basketball games. At one poorly reffed game, the crowd augmented the usual \cat it, ref' by heating pennies with cigarette lighters and hurling them towards the court. One unfortunate ref was hit in the eye and was blinded, which shouldn't help his calling of the game any. The culmination of the infiltration of politics into the sports world was obviously the Munich massacre at the past Olympics. The kidnapping and murder of the eleven members of the Israeli team was the final step in bringing sports into the real world. ihe Olympics have had its controversies in the past few years: Olga Connolly refusing to dip the American flag as the team marched by the German heads of state, the protests of John Carlos and Tommie Smith in MexicoCity, the apparent nonchalance of Wayne c;ollett and Vince Mattbews during the playing of the national anthem at Munich, and Mark Spitz carrying a pair of sneakers to the medal cerernony and being called for advertising them. But no one could have expected the brutal killings by the Arabs. The Munich Olympics at l~ast made us aware that the sports world was no longer separate from the real world. It may have been a long time in coming, but there is now no doubt that sports has many of the disgusting qualities that mar American society. Despite the pureness of little Cathy Rigby and the smile of figure skater Janet Lynn, American sports is no longer the escape from the unpleasantness of life that it once was. * * * * Science Center Continued from Page 1 generator in the basement and the 30 kilowatt generator in the courtyard (which together supply only enough power to keep the hall lights on and the heating running at a low level) no outside- power ~ill be imported, since the installation of such facilities, which would only be temporary, would cost the College $40,000. The entire replacement operation will cost Union about $30,000. Both Dean Lichterman and Mr. Usher Were unsure as to how much of this cost would be defrayed by insurance payments. While many classes and most labs were canceled last week, classes are now being held in Humanities, Social Sciences, and Butterfield. Most labs remain canceled, . but Dean Lichterman mentioned the happy prospect of holding labs on Saturdays and on weekday nights. There is not much to do now but wait. All estimations and predictions now hang on the outcome of a series of ominous \·i fs ..... PLEASE PATRONIZE OUR ADVERTISERS

Page4 Tuesday, Fehruar.1· IS, /973 Garnet Hoop Rolls 9 -·o Frosh Hoop Sweep Weekend Over Utica And Drew by MARK W. MINDEL Gliding to their fourth and fim straight victories, the Union College basketball team recorded wins of 70-65 and 101-65 over outclassed Utica and Drew over the weekend to raise its record til the impressive rank of 9-4. This includes victories in seven of its last eight games. The Drew game Saturday, played before a somewhat less than capacity crowd, marked two 'firsts~ for the year for the Garnet. For one, the Dutchmen, who are known for their defense, not. offense. rolled up over one hundred points. and for another every player who suited up, scored. The first is all the more remarkable in that Coach Walters began substituting freely in the first half and played mostly second stringers the entire second stanza. Union opened the game with a full court press and Drew folded under the p.ressure immediately. The Dutchmen, however, could not capitalize at first and after four minutes held only a 6-2 lead. Off The Rag But the Garnet shook off its early raggedness and cold shooting and began to pull away, leading by as much as 21-4 at one juncture. Tom Bacher, who did not see any action in the final half, scored eleven in the first half and along with Geoff Walker (10), Tom Combs (9), and John Denio (8) was a top performer in the first half pull-away. Denio was very effective in leading the newly-found Garnet fast break as his quick acceleration to the middle from the outlet pass opened up the Dutchmen offense. Two plays, picture perfect, were representative of the Garnet's new type of play. Leading 29-14 with about seven and a half minutes to go in the first half, Geoff Walker skied for an errant Drew shot and quickly released the ball to Denio. The frisky frosh flashed downcourt and led Bacher to the hoop with a perfect pass which T J converte.d into a nifty three point play for a 32-14 Union lead. Minutes later another Orew attempt missed and caromed high into the air. Tom Combs leaped and batted it back, 'a Ia volleyball, to Bacher at the foul line. Denio broke down the left side and T J was on the money, and the Garnet were on the board for two more. Union began scoring at will and led 51-24 at the halL The second half was just for fun as Walters, leaning· back and smiling throughout, started Rich Maisano, along with semi-injured Tom Combs and Luke Dillon, and regulars Mike Doyle and Chuck Abba. 'Dollar Bill' Underhill Maisano began throwing in long lefthanded bombs and as Union's lead began to rise, Walters cleared -his bench. The rest of the night was pure lark as Bill Underhill battled the Drew cheerleaders for the height of the Garnet fan support. Despitebig Bill's three points (which came after three missed field goals and two frissled free throws, much· to the sympathy of everyone) the Cheerleaders won. <!! The excitement of the last half, provided by anttctpation of everyone scoring and reaching the century mark, may have overshadowed a mammouthjob by forward Mike Doyle. Doyle had only two points at the half, but after Charlie Gugliotta fouled out he was reinserted into the line-up. Continued on Page 2 by BILLY DeBEAR After important victories over Siena and a weak Trinity team last week, the freshman basketball team faced the possibility ofletting down in consecutive night games against Utica and Drew. But, the undefeated fmsh did anything but let down. as they posted' easy victories over both opponents. 'MHch of the credit has to be given to t.he outstanding coaching talents of Bill Scanlon. According to the players, it is Scanlon who mentally prepares the team for game~ against obviously inferior competition, figuring that the players are able to ready themselves for the rougher ' competition, such as RPI and Siena. But if Scanlon did not arouse his team, by whatever methods he deems appropriate, the squad could easily drop at least one game because of the so-called \let <town'' that affects many teams of this calibre. However, Scanlon must have performed this task last weekend as the Garnet thrashed Utica 76-50, and Drew, 87~56. On Friday night, the visiting Garnet ran the Running Utes off the court, as. they ,opened a 10-0 lead after only fi.ve minutes. From this point on, the fitst half \was fairly even, as was reflected by the 36-26 halftime score. Union was paced in the early going by. Bill Coppula. Although ·his. , . . is defense, Coppola dembnstrated the weaknesses in Utica's ins·ide defense q.s he · scored on three driving layups. This led to an alteration in the Union offense, as the Garnet were able to forsake the outside shot and concentrate on work.ing the ball inside via picks and backdoor plays for ·e.asy baskets. . To combat this, Utica returned for the second half with a zone defense, but the Garnet quickly shot the zone fu.H of hol.es !:lnd the perplexed Utes returned to their unsuccessful man-to-man defense. But this only allowed Union to revert to its o.riginal game plan of working inside for .layups, anc:l the Garnet coasted to· a 76-50 win. Union relied on halance scoring as Bill Coppula, John Raymond, Ray Marcinowsk( and Brian Breton each scored eleven points, while Steve Kelly, Mark Gillum . and Dave Malkowich all added eight. The most notica:ble and important aspect of the Drew encounter was the near perfect defensive work of the starting five. The visitors managed only eight points all night against the starters, who only played to.gether · for seventeen minutes. During those minutes Union opened a 25-61ead and afforded Scanlon the luxury of playing his subs over half of the entire game. Although the second string could not fl}atoh. the starters on defense, they did niaihtairi a 46~ 26 halftime advantage. Tom Bacher, 21 point scorer \'('r.ws Uti('(l FridcJI' night. photo hy Bill Erichsen The starters returned for the second half and departed nine m~nutes later with the score 62-28, after outscoring their opponents 16-2. During the remainder of the game, the Union subs, who outscored the starters 53~38, lengthened the lead to the final score of 87-56. Mark Gillum and Dave Viniar each tallied 14 points to pace the freshmen, and no starter played long enough to score in double figures. H<!wev~r, Bill He.ns-on was pa·rticularly impressive in scoring eight points to go with his seven assists. Mark Glazer also had a fine evening, as he single handedly broke open a Drew zone late in the first half with some fine long range shooting. Matmen Split; Now at 5-5 by FRANCESCO ISGRO In a triangular meet held- Saturday at R.P.I., the Dutchmen grapplers managed to keep their record even at 5-5 by shading the arch-rival Engineers 21-20, and\ bowing to St. John Fisher 13-22. The Garnets had travelled to Troy for a single match, and due to a \misunderstanding\ as Coach Everling put it, they ended up facing two teams back to back. The sad thing was that the only ones who suffered were our own grapplers who received notice of the extra match only 2 minutes before the meet. As one member of the team explained, .. We were psychologically prepared for one match, and you just can't get yourself ready for two bouts in a row in two minutes.\ Nevertheless, Union put on a good show against St. John Fisher, who is now 7-0. Walker is Back The I 18 weight class was forfeited, gtvmg team-captain Marc Zullo a chance to nurse his injury. Sophomore Mike Walker made a courageous comeback and wrestled 2 matches with only 3 days of practice. He buried his opponent from R.P.I. Il-l, with an added point for riding time. His decision gave the team 4 points instead of 3 and that extra point gave the Garnets the victory. In his other match he dropped a 3-2 decision, due to his opponent having riding time. 134 pounder Bruce Freeman decisioned his opponent from R.P.I. 9-5, and dropped his seco.nd match of the year to o~connell from Fisher, 10-6. • His overall record now stands at 8-2-2. Freshman Scott Media ( 142 lb.), came out even also by decisioning his opponent from R.P.I. and dropping a 8-4 loss to Fisher. Freshman Tom \Speed_Y\ Everett won his 6th consecutive match of the season by a pin in 29 seconds. He added a seventh win by decisioning his opponent from Fisher 6-2. His dual meets record stand now at 8-1-1. Jeff White finally managed to win his first bout after 6 consecutive losses. He nipped his opponent from R.P.I. 6- 5 and lost to his foe from Fisher 4- 0. Gary Gurney also won one match and droppe<! the other. He upped his record to 4-6. In the 190 lb. weight class, freshman· Greg Lyons buried his opponent from Fisher 18-2, and was handed a 8-4 . set back by his foe from R.P.I. IJaw Viniar, ll'ho scored 14 points to lead the Ji·osb lo a 87- 56 l'ictory ol'er Dreu·. photo by Bill Etichson The freshmen, now 9-0, will be on the road tomorrow night as they tangle with Hartwick. Levrs Dave's Mens Shop 453 State St. (downtown Schenectady) Gutsy Schutzer- t.:,_~-~~-~~~~~--~~ .... ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Junior Steve Schutzer, who has ... - - - been filling the 190 lb. gap, dropped both of his matches. 1 . Steve, who ·only weighs 150 lbs., ~ has given a tough time to his opponents who carry more than one-third his own weight. Every 1 time he loses by a decision, he is giving the team three points. Coach Everling must be proud of this ''gutsy\ wrestler. Heavyweight \Champ\ Howard Benedict, for the second time this season, took a draw against his opponent from R.P.I. To tell it like - it is, he has tied both these matches 1 because the referees have called him for stalling, and in both instances have awarded two points to his foes. Now let's face it: would \Champ\ Benedict ever stall? 1 . The Garnet wrestlers face a tough week ahead. They have 2 1 Continued on Page 2 PLEASE PA TRONIZB OUR ADVERTISERS Brothers III WEEKLY SPECIALS LUNCHEON SPECIAL J;.i lb. Roast Beef Sandwich w /french fries & a draught beer $1.25 (other sandwiches available) Wed: 9•11 p.m. Reduced Draught prices Thurs: Wine & Cheese night A Plate of Cheese & Crackers & a glass of Wine $1.00 FOLK SINGERS cover charge 50¢ Sour Hour 4~9 P.M. drinks 50¢ Friday Nite: 9:30-1:30 A.M. Cheese & peanuts availahle at all tin1es. - - - I I t 1 -

~d :le ee tn as 1e >l'l ks sy \\ :Jr e. to of 1e n. as ly >n le ld t. ld w ct e. Itt ·s, )f >e id )f te id rs 6~ 1e 1e 8, ts 1e \0 8. al .d ts 0 ·e II y ts k IS a h y • ·\ founded ot ·Union College in 1877- v ~~: 102, No:.z9 Friday, Feb:mary·9, 1973 20 cents .Polite Polemics Between Buckley and Greenfield by GEORGE STANWICK The Froman Distinguished Professorship at Russell Sage College recently sponso·red a series of topical lectures by William F.\ Buckley, Jr. and ensuing discussions with several ideological opponents. Most r:ecpntly, _ Buckley __ and Washington political consultant Jeff Greenfield bantered about the issue of governmental tax reform. Greenfield boasts an impressive record of political internship as a legal aide and speechwriter to the late New York Senator Robert F. Kennedy and as an assistant to New York Mayor John V. Lindsay. He is the author of The Advance Man and The Populist Manifesto and describes himself as a cynical leftist. Buckley draws upon a well-seasoned stint in journalisttv and politics as editor of \National Review,\ as the Conservative .Party candidate for Mayor of New'York in 1965, and as the Executive Whip. of the National Committee to Horsewhip Drew Pearson. His· newest literary foil is · Inveighipg WeWiUGo. ·During the interview before the lecture, Buckley dismissed President Ni'!-on's Phase Three .econo<mic program as \witchcraft\ and judged the action to be economtc and political pandemwiium. When a ponderous young reporter asked ~ilckley if he. agreed with recent j}JOposals in ''National Review'' advocating the decriminalization of marijuana, the intrepisi journalist grinned · impishly. Buckley poi~tely' referred the sheepish interviewer to a concurrent article that he himself had written. in the magazine . endorsing the decriminalizatioh of marijauana. The inte~viewing group therewith launched into an animated discussion about the realization of· tax revenue ·from the sale· of marijuana. Buckley cast some animadversions on the ·viability of fair!).' high ta:x rates on marijuana. He contended that it would be 'easy for anyone with ·nominal energy and dedication to grow his own ·Crop, thereby · haying no' reason to buy 'commercially . processed marijuana. When queried about his feelings toward the forthcoming . tertpin~~ion . of \Firing Line,\ his weel<ly show on PBS, Buckley stated that he saw n<> reason why Congress should pay for programs dealing with !)Ublic affairs and that his was no. exception. recommendation of achieving simplicity was not through the elimination ·of the corporate income tax as the \innocent rightist\ had proposed, but through the education of the public in .the scheme of tax laws. Greenfield defended · the inscrutability of the tax laws. Buckley merely winced, smiled and readjusted his clipboard. Buckley and Greenfield punctuated the high seriousness of the discussion with humorous references to the deplorable financial status of the New York Yankees, Connecticut Yankees, and the city of Milwaukee; and weighed the advantages and disadvantages of having a har_psichorq lesson from Rosalyn Tureck and seeing a concert by the Rolling Stories. All in all, the · evening was reminiscent of the series of discussions held on network tel.evision between William F. Buckley, Jr. and John Kenneth Galbraith during the 1972 Democratic Convention in Miami - two old friends talking about the politics of the ·day. All that was missing in Troy were the persoo.al deck chairs of the commentators, the ·balmy rays of the Florida sun, the aimless cries of the sea gulls, and tile distant specter of George McGovern. Euckley•s '\veil-tanned complexion bore tHe vestiges of a good day sail and a warm salt spray even in the artificial light of the barren courtyard as he vigorously strode off after the program, wrapping a long crocheted scarf about his neck to brave the cold night air. The crowd that attended last Monday's open meeting of the Steering Committee. _ photo by Jeff Weilburg Minimal Interest Bothers Committee. by PHIL ALCABES The Union College Steering Committee held an open meeting last Monday night; any student, at such a meeting, has the right to speak and voice his opinion. The meeting was called to o(der by Don Foley, in the absence of President Tony Faga. The major item treated was a proposed change to the constitution, and a counter- proposal. These two plans called for alternative processes of election and. appointment for the Tax Committee and Committee on Committees. The first proposed electing the Tax Committee and having the Steering Committee appoint members to the Committee on Committees. The se<:ohd proposed electing only Steering Committee melnbers, who would appoint the Committees on Committees, which in turn would appoint all other committee:>. The Steering Committee will vote to approve one plan, draft an amendment, and set it before ·the entire student body for the May election.· Another suggestion considered was the abolition of the present institution of a two-year tenure for the junior class Steering Committee members, giving all classes' representatives a one-year seat. h was pointed out that the idea of the existing &ystem is to ensure, as in the U.S. Senate, that ther'e are always some experienced members on the committee. After shuffling SQme papers arounli on his ever~present clipboar~, Buckley went out of the an:teroQm to tne Stage of the auditorium .of the Schact Fine Arts Center to begin the lecture. He S-'Upplemented the formal introduction of the· speakers QY quipping that Mr. Greenfield was \an inno\Cent leftist.\ Buckley tchen qocked his neck and fired away; reading from the 1nternal Revell.ue Code 509 <>f the Tax Reform Act of 1969 which he termed ·as \that' venture in lucidity.\ The audience revelled in Ruckley\s invective as he .9rit.icized the inscrutability of tax 1aws. After· having· c.Won . $pe empathy of his listeners, the Permanent State of Emergency The business of the meeting was conducted predominantly in informal discussion. Mr. Foley !Panaged the direction of, and lent some order to, the talk. Parliamentary procedure had no place at this meeting; it was not raucous, but neither was there the stiltedness of a formal assembly. We visitors were able \to speak our minds as freely as the committee · members themselves. .lecturer proceeded to outline a by JEF·F WEILBURG simplistic set of taK. reform It seems that the God of proposals. Briefly: Electrons who directs the magic 'I. laxation ought t<> be equal of electric power that we mortals and it should not attempt to claim to understand has not been change the level in spending looking favorably on the Science habits because the financial center of late. By his command at residf:le <>f the affluent man tends the beginning of this week, the to be socially useful. . power . in the new section of the 2. Oniy ttue income should . be complex we~t from low to no, as taxed. Mr. Bucklc:;y defined Jr.ue the emergency generator in the income as that money which fs. ... ba&erp.ent ~~nt out of operation. left after abs·olute needs of the . The events concerning tbe individual are paid for. repair of ·the -generator, which 3. Capital gains ,SIJ;!?·l.l,!O.:·.:ibe finally resumed operation at taxec:iat the same.ra.te~s:·incotne. about 1:45 p.m. Thursday, sound adjustments being mad,e for like they were taken from the · inflatiotl. script of a tragi-comedy. The 4. Tax:.es on busines& should be valve spring needed to repair the altogether eliminated because it generator was promptly flown in is the consumer wllo- pays for from Wisconsin but it was sent to these taxes in the end through Albany. When it VJas finally paying higher prices for goods. found and received at Union, it 5. All deductions not related to turned out to be the wrong size. the making of money. should be When the correct spring finally eliminated. · · did arrive, maintena.nce noticed <i. · The .Intern~} ... Revenue that the generator Vias leaking oil. Service should be ·the ·only tax As of Thursday night, the collector, implying .. a more situation has finally stabilized in localfzed assessment an·d ·What. professor Ray Rappaport distribution of the tax dollar. of the Biology department &uckley's. themes were succinctly put as a \permanent simpli'City and uniformity and his state of emergency.\ The building apponent's short presentation is once again receiving heat, and hinged· on the definition of these the hallways artd stairways are t\V() terms with regard to tax law. lit. There is some emergency Greenfield empathized With the power being used to operate labs,· doornail, although it has some heat, and it has been officially closed off. Many of the doors in the new building have been locked, in order .to conserve heat. Butterfield and Steinmetz halls have full power, as they have their own transformers, situated in the basement · of Steinmetz. Cables have been running power from Steinmetz into critical areas of the new building. Labs and classes are being held as usual in Steinmetz and Butterfield. Reactions to the failure. and to the administration's handling of the situation were mixed. Most students• don't really seem ' to care, and .have rather placidly reacted to the situation either by groaning about work ·that ·will have to be made up a,t the end of the term or by'making. the best of the ridiculousness of the situation by laughing. Professor Byron Good heart of Electrical Engineering praised the administration higqly for their handling of the affair, and said that ••.... they did exactly what they should have done.\ He said that it was surprising that this ptobleni did occur and that is is improbable that the same problem would arise again. He stated • further . that the secondary cit.cuits were being checked and tbat. everything seemed to be in order. Professor Goodheart was Steering Committee meetings are open to all students every . three weeks. Although only eight (of II) Steering Committee representatives were present Monday, they outnumbered the (five) students who attended out of interest. So it has· been for the open meetings all· year. The members of the committee are disturbed by this situation. The Student Senate was done away with and replaced by the Steering Committee in hopes of involving students more in government; it was hoped that such a group would be more responsive than the formal organization of the Senate. Bruce Sostek, class of '75 representative to the Committee on Committees, remarked that students complained about lack of student involvemeh.t in governing the school~ now that they have a role, .. they're not using it.\ . The possibility of calling a Town Meeting, an assemblage of the entire student population to decide on a pressing issue, has not been exploited a single time. A petition carrying 200 signatures must be presented in order to have a Town Meeting called. Don DeCesare, class of 1914 Steering Committee member, observed, \Do you know how easy it is to get 200 signatures?\' Students don't turn . i:deals of Buckley's proposals but which has been. patphed out of believed that uniformity and non- live emergency outlets in the pr()gressivity in taxation were not research'labs and animal i'omns. · mtttuaHy excludve. His Bailey Hall is dead as· a • Continued on P<tg~ 2 '\conJinued on Pa{e _! 1

Pagel CONCORDIENSIS, Fridav, Fehruary 9, 1'173 Letters To the Editor: We would like to take this opportunity to strongly support the ideas behind the new tenure policy. This plan has a variety of important advantages. Most importantly, the new tenure policy dictates that employment be based not on artificially constructed limits but on ability. The basic purpose of a . college is to provide a good education for its students. To that purpose, the college sets up rules and regulations which can aid it in accomplishing its stated goal. When such rules begin to interfere in the achievement of that goal they are obviously no longer necessary and must be discarded. The new tenure policy is for the most part much more consistent with the needs of the college than the old rules. The new tenure program, while discarding much that was wrong with the old system, incorporates many of its good points. By still providing tenure for some faculty it insures the defense of academic freedom. It also protects those who have worked hard to achieve tenure by continuing theirstatusas tenured professors. We feel that the new tenure policy is completely and totally in the best interests of the college. We therefore strongly urge its passage. Larry Swartz '73 Cornelia Jones '73 Marty Berman '74 Ellyn Roth '74 Jonathan Levin '75 Valerie Hoffman '75 Arnold M. Hiller '76 Jill. S~h~eier ry 6 * * * * To the Editor: For each student there is a different reason for being or stayil').g in college. In fact, there are many· life styles,- motivations, colors, ideas. philosophies ... I think you get the idea. The thing that gives life to any given concept is the people who seek to embody it. It is their needs that have to be · satisfied. However, it takes a Lord of the Flies kind of arrogance to presume thatanyonelifestyleis the only or even the best approach to provide fulfillment for all. The comment in \Co-ed Success in Fox\ (Feb. 2 issue, Concordiensis) that the former R.A. was \unable\ to deal with the situation, while no doubt meant to be a simple statement of fact, came across as uninformed carping or at best just poor editorializing. There is a distinction, I believe, between· \unable\ and unwilling. I do not think anyone would deny that we are all (R.A.'s included) entitled to a choice of life style. To blanketly generalize with \the typical insecure, screwed-up college student\ is unjustified. Though, without this premise the dramatic element of success in terms of satisfaction in the male- female relationship is somewhat diminished· as success is tempered relative to the point at which one began. It is d~fficultto understand how this new found liberation seems to imply restriction in terms of a male female quata as an absolute for a true \sense of community\ or the enhancement . of a ••more natural, true to life, meaningful, and most importantly, enjoyable\ experience at Union. A return to the true spirit of the world liberal toward not only tolerating the existence of a variety of preferences but viewing our own as one in the greater context of many more would mutually benefit interpersonal relationships of all kinds. Sincerely, Cathy Toye '74 \' * * * Dear Boarding Students: This letter is being written to help in explaining the whys and wherefores of the new meal ticket system. I know this system takes more time for the checker, and the ticket itself is a little clumsy to work with. The reason we have gone to this system is fourfold. I. We have an obligation to the boarding student not to use his food dollar to feed non-boarding students. 2. The two (2) meal plans, together with fraternity credits, necessitate a more sophisticated system. 3. Some students were taking advantage of the system, and \rip- offs\ were high. 4. The attached I.n adds greater importance to this valuable ticket. As you may know the price of your boarding plan is based on a miss meal factor. It is anticipated that each boarder will attend approximately 70-73% of all available meals. If you have a 20 meal contract. y.ou are actually only paying for approximately 14 to 16 meals per week. Naturally, some students will eat more, and some less. The daily meal checker system is not designed to be a \Hassle.\ It is designed to prevent unauthorized persons from having free meals on you. We are always open for suggestions on how to improve your program. In fact, we discussed the new ticket system with renresentatives of the Food CONCORDIENSlS loui'lded at Union Colll)ge in 18'/1 . . Editor-in-Chief .......................... G.eorge Bah. News Editor ............................. Tim Cain Managing Editors r ••• ••••••••••••••••• Rita Morandi Dave Strom Features Editor ... ~ ...................... AI Reisch Sports Editor .................. · ... Bruce Batchelder .. Photo Editors .......................... Les Kernan Jeff Weilburg Business Manager ..... : ... '· ....... Michael J. Hurley National Advertising .................. Stephen Kelly Subscriptions ........ • ............... Mike Bernstein Contributing Editors ............ ~ .. Peter Bickerman Offlee Staff Phil Alcabes Ooug Carpenter Gary Lovett lllyria Puharicr Dan Rothblum Louis S. Snitkoff Robin Waring Bill West foncordlJnsis \J1tthhslwd 1.'\c'r) lth:sda) and Hidu) duritl!)thc• \:IH>lll )c·ar c\CcJ1l durin~ e\.umn:lliim and \acatinnpcrinds h) tlw sllttknt hod~ ,,r l'nion Collc!)c. Schcnectad). .-,. Y. '>at t<>nal ad\ t'rt t>~ng rcrrcsc·ntat h ,.. \a4tona I Educational /\d\ crt ising Sen K·c, ln.:. Cui kg<' l'uhlish~rs R,•prt''<'lllltlt\ ~;. ~atinmtl Fdut:ati<>nal 1\d\..-rtising Sm tc<:. lnl'.. '\.'.C. I dtturial ()!fie,·. Old Gym. linton Ct>llege. l'uhlicntwn OITiec. I he \''\tsh World l'uhlicalinns. 771 Statt: Street. Scht·ncctad\. '>.Y. 12307. J.Jll-2.'56. rnt<'rcJ ill tht· Sch,•twdad\ . post office as Second ('(;, .. Mail \.lattcr.Stlhst•ripttnn 20 cents a cop) .SK a )c;;r ckli\ered amv.here in the United States. Deadline i·or all cop). \\.hich must he l)!'ed and douhlc··sp;tc<'d. is 7 p.m. ,m Mondu) and rhursda) at the Concord) <ilfkt'. aoO\t' Old ChliP<\L Office telephone numher ~' J70-ld55. hut th~ ollkc i~ onl~ ill u-.· 111i \l<>ndll~ and Thursdav nights. For all cditnrial m;tttcrs. ~·otll the cditur·UJ-dlil'l at .19~- 1640: for inf~rmottion call Student Actiliti<~ Oltic•· ott 3?0-f>l ~~- . . .· , .•. ',,., Committee, and four additional students prior to implementation. So please feel free to come in and talk with any representative about any asp.ect of your food service program. Sincerely, SAGA FOOD SERVICE James R. Hagadone District Manager Harold Richardson Food Serv.ice Director John Lane Food Service Manager * * * * -- To the Editor: We the undersigned are disgusted by a growing campus problem. We are referring to the quantities of dog feces that are rapidly accumulating on campus sidewalks, steps, and playing fields. We arerepulsedat the sight of feces in the living areas; specifically the fact that the owner of one dog has allowed his animal to urinate on the internal walls of Fox House and defecate (2/3/73) on the lounge carpet (which he has yet to clean up, 2/6/73). This final act of inconsideration seems due to the fact that this student is too lazy to walk his own dog, or even open the dorm doors to let said dog out. We feel tltat the legislation for dog ownership is quite liberal and puts the responsibility for these animals in the hands of their owners. We . have read the comments of some dog owners in past issues of Concor~y and hope that their concem expressed in said letters will be translawd into more respect for the rights of the student body for healthy living areas and campus grounds. We feelthatifthe owners refuse to meet these obligations to the campus community, with respect to. these dogs, that serious steps be undertaken immediately to throw the dogs off campus permanently. Lewis B. Kinter •73 John R. Glover '7(, Joel R. Buckberg '76 Terry Timberlake '73 Luke Dillon '74 Elissa Rothstein '75 Sirkka Sinnemaki '75 Jim Alberg '74 Ducky Marks '76 Steve Sedlak '76 Lance Jacobson '75 James C. Mori '76 Peter Weiner '76 JeffreyS. L~ck '76 Paul J. Connors '74 John Toner '73 Sincerely, Robert B. Wilson '73 William C. Sibert Jr. '75 Lew lnsler '76 · Michael Walker '75 Mark Glazer '76 * * • * - To the Editor: There is an injustice being committed against the Freshmen of this college. Freshmen at this institution are forced to eat meals at West College. What are the reasons for lhis rule? On the outside it would look as if the rule exists for the good of the Freshman. Freshmen, being Freshmen, are too irresponsible to be able to make the decision as to whether or not it is better for them to be on a meal plan, or on their own eating the food they prepare or someone else prepares. Since this is the case, we shall tell them they must take meals from the West cafeteria; this will insure an adequate diet for thetn, right? Wrong. Many Freshmen wake up in the morning, look at the cl!>ck, think of what is awaiting them at West (in some cases this means·the other side of campus), roll over and go back to sleep until their first class. As I just mentioned, there are some Freshmen who live on the. other side of campus from West. This means that for the meals that do not coincide with a class, EdWards and Hickok Freshme-n must make up to three pilgrimages tevrs n· Dave's' Mens Sbop a day to the house of good nutrition to receive their daily nourishment. I am ·one of these students. As a result ofthe time and energy that it takes to walk the length of campus I find it very inconvenient and often impossible to eat many of the meals that cost my parents an ·average of about $1 .00 per meal. distrib!I.tlon · of the paper as follows: 500 for subscriptions mailed off campus; 200 for faculty ~nd staff; 1900 for students; and 200 \extfl.\ Protect Your Environment Club of Union College feels that Concor.ticn~is is perpetrating a great w.aste of paper by printing 2800 cc;pies for each issue. For, first .of all, 200 papers cannot even bee accounted for. And, seoondl.y, a PYE member counted. left-over copies of the January 30, 1973, edition of the newspaper. Eight buildings were checked. 320 extra ·copies were found. It is not necessary to print 1900 copies for the student body. For, even if every student read Concordiensis, each person does not need his or her ow.n private copy. Many people read their neighbo.r's or roommate's paper... The Club~ de.niands that Concoi'IIicnsis immediately cut · down 011. the ·~extra\ 200 copies per edition. After pwduction is cut the Club requests that Concor<liensis, by virtue of the evidence presented, seriously considers cutting dowri at least · anotheF 200 copies. Sincer~ly, Marcy Kate Schwartz * * * * To prevent my going hungry I keep a small supply of food on hand. This however costs monj.!y, and some of the students at this school are fighting to pay once for their meals. In addition to having to play \Abraham Lincoln'' for meals, Freshmen must P1lt up with crowds similar to those one might encounter at a county fair in order to be served and seated. Next time you have the privilege of eating at West sit back and imagine yourself sitting atop a Ferris Wheel, you will see what I mean. Food quality is in the eyes of the gourmet, but most students, after afew weeks of experience could probably do better on their own, at least in their eyes, than through Saga. In the long tun the cost is probably less, tao~ Freshmen, it is my opinion that this rule does not exist for our benefit, but ratherfor the benefit of Saga. Should we be forced to support Saga for the rest of the College's benefit. We are cutting the press run Sincerely yours, this isszu by 300 copies. - The Woody Lauer Editor * * * * To the Editor: According to George Bain, editor-in-chief of the ·c~»ntinuedfromPameJ Concordiensis, 2800 copies are wearing -a \shirt and his office printed for each edition of the was well lit, and warm. Professor paper. Mr. Bain estimated the Rappaport's office was dark and C • rather c;hilly when I .spoke to Offiffilttee him. He was wearing a sweater, Continued from Pa!!e 1 and his feelings about the matter out foi.any 01 tne open meeungs, were different from Professor he said. They show up only when Goodheart's. While he indicated they have a personal complaint. that ruffled biological feathers Art Just, the sophomore were <lnce again smooth, he and several .Qther members of the ' representative on the Discipline Committee, shares Sostek'~ biology department had been dismay. The Steering Committee, annoyed last week that the the two sophomores maintain, is administration had not kept a \direct link to the All-College them sufficiently informed about Senate.\ Both Faga and Foley th~ details of :he situation. H~ have seats in this student-faculty- said t:h~t there . could ha.ve been administration board. Student better mJormatton ~andhn~. ~n~ complaints considered by the · ·bett.er u~;e of op~ratmg fac1ht1es Steering Committee could follow durmg the earher days .of the this easy route to the higher proble .. m. strata of decision-making. Yet . ~e- fee~s. however, that the this mechanism is not bein\' situatio~ ts now under control, utilized. o and pratsed .the studen~s, faculty, The Steering Committee, apd espeCially . mamten~nce Sostek affirmed is \more than a department for their cooperatiOn. rubber stamp ~ommittee.\ Just Profes~or Alfred Goebles: of agreed that there is .. a lot of . the Phys:~cs depart~ent. had httle potential.\ Formation of the Ad comment on the situation, as he Hoc Committee .on Housing was felt that h~ and most ~ther · cited as an example of the professo'=s dtd not have .eno~gh Steering Committee's capacity mform~t1o~ about the situation for positive change. Another ~t t~e1r disposal. to make any might be the · fact that four mtei!I9ent ~valuatwns of how the constitutional amendments will adnnnlst~;at!on ~ad handled the be proposed and voted upon in problem. He dtd tell .me that May. most upper.class phfSics .l~bs Some of the Committee were back ~n operatwn •. usmg members campaigned hard to power supplied from Stemmetz, win their posts. They consider and th~t freshman labs should be that important functions ~re operatm~ by next week. fulfilled by the group, and are . Profe~sor C.D. S~hwartz, also willing to devote . their time to m phystc:s, laughe~ m answer t.o serving on it and being elected to m:r: ~arnest ques~tons .. about hts it. Yet, for Union students, as ?Ptntons on the sttUatiO~. He .has Art Just put it, \elections here JUSt take11 the. pro?lem m ~trlqe, are a joke.\ How can a because, he satd With a smile, ~e popularity contest yield never really expects any of th1s conscientious workers? fancy technology ever to work The students, though, seem not anyway. to care what the Steering Committee do~s. or how it is accomplished. 'There seems to be no commitment to changing things at the school through the committee system. \If the interest were there,\ Sostek said, \students would attend meetings : :.\ ~pathy is a realit~.\ KELLY'S. RES-T AURA NT AND GRILl 501-503 Hattie Street Schenectady PR nGTOR'S rHF.~nR u J74-;;3!l0 STArE S1., SCHENECTADY .feb. 9·14 SIOWBAlL EXPRESS . Coming Soon ·The life and Times . of J11dge Roy Bean - . I Lady Sings the Blue.s. 453 State St• _,_ .\' (downtown Scb¢Qech!dy,t :· 1 ! .a.:...; • ..-....-... .............. , ... -\ . ..,_~- .. ~·-~ .... ,,.,~ Tel. D16-5059 - ( b3 A Uni COlli cou but mer I b abo faci sevi pla· bet! we Cli cor Ha tha 4 eat ar{ th( Stl o.b m• ac an pc in th A re Ol Cl hi m tl c: d il t! I t c ( r u • fl tr ·.· \). ·\) .

' . ) ::·,,t ,, . G , • ·\) . ' . CONCORD!ENSJS, 'Friday, Fehruary 9, /973 Page3 The View From Clinton: Contrast of Union, Hamilton by R. GORDON BINGHAM As the class of 1973 entered Union, it was asked: \What other college is most like Union?\ Of course there were !llany answers, but the college most often mentioned was ·Hamilton. When I began talking to people here about joining up l shared many facets of that perception. As the several rounds .of interviews took pla<:e, ho'A!ever, my notions began to change and, now that we have spent six months in Clinton, I am increasingly convinced that Union and Hamilton are much less aHke than one might suppose. Kirkland. The colleges share a new library, health and counseling centers, registrar, financial aid and maintenance staff but have otherwise separate faculties, and administrations. Kirkland is designed to be an ·innovative institution: classes mostly small, evaluations instead -of grades, some student taught courses, and a great deal of self evaluation. ln short, Kirkland's very ~non-traditional ways are mu~h in contrast to Hamilton's mode of operation. The fact that students here may take Kirkland courses fairly freely has surely lessened the move toward expe.rimental courses and teaching methods at Hamilton. I have the clear perception, however, that many of the really good courses in the Union Comp. Ed. program, for example, would never see the light of day here. Internally, Union and Hamilton operate very This, coupled with our relative isolation on a hilltop outside a village of 3,000 people, presents a situation in which a high degree of interchange between students and faculty can hardly be avoided. AU of these physical and location factors aside, there is a genuine4 closeness and friendliness about the place. Students here, as elsewhere, continually complain ~bout the need for more ways in which they may casually get together (especially ways for Hamilton and Kirkland students to mix more freely), but in comparison with other small colleges with which I have acquaintance, things are much more together here. Perhaps it is this sense of closeness that contributes to good faculty and student morale. Now that l can look at Union from a distance (and have another place with which to compare it), I have the definite impres$ion that morale in variou~ substantial segments of the College is low indeed. If I had to single out a reason for this phenomenon, I would noint without hesitation to the tenure hassle. Since Hamilton is creeping up on a situation of 60C}l of the faculty tenured with good young Assistants coming up, I've been doing my· best to alert people here to the dangers inherent in replicating the Union experience. It is my hope that the pian you are cutren tty considering for alterations in tenure procedures will eliminate a good deal of the ill will and, incidentally; provide a possible · model for many other institutions caught in the same bind. So, which is the \better place?'' I certainly would not try to ~nswer that one. The point of this little exposition is .simply to report my sense that Hamilton and Union are a good <leal different, especially in style and atmosphere, than they seem on the surface. We were very happy in Schenectady and made many good and lasting friends; so far we're finding the same to be true · of our life in Clinton. I have been most privileged to be associated with two fine institutions, both of which provide outsta.nding educational opportunities within the limits of their resources and abilities - to suggest that one should be placed \above\ the other would be to suggest a kind of discrimination unfair to both. IDOL Theme Is \Creativity\ ls the creative process by which the scientist makes a discovery different only in content (but not in form) from that process by which the artist conceives and completes his work? With all the differences in backgrounds and interests, do we all share anything in common?, desire for greater fulfillment?, increasing happiness? What is the process by which we seek to achieve these ends? Creativity, as a subject, is so broad a consideration that it at once is. an integral part of all life and yet seems to resist definition. Man's act 'creation' and 're- creation' is somehow different from specific disciplines e.g., chemistry, theatre, literature, football, eL al. yet all of these various activities ex,..press creativity. lf we can consider that creativity, in the widest sense, has something to do with the flow of energy from 'within' which expresses itself in the diversity of life, then we have set a parameter for further investigation. One thing that struck me very early is that students at Hamilton are a good deal \straighter\ than those. at Union. Time has only strengthened my early o.bservation. Students here are more serious about their academic work, work harder, and are slightly to the right politically {though certainly not, in general, Conservatives) of their counterparts at Union. Although there are no course requirements here except that one must major in something, the · curriculum itself reinforces this hard-working image: there is much less independent study than 11-t Union and relatively few non-traditional courses. Students take four courses per semester and one in January. While a number of students ·do off- campus or independent projects during January (law office internships, practice teaching, travel groups to USSR and England), it is generally assumed that this part of the 4-l-4 curriculum is a time to bear doWn on a single topic of interest rather than, as at some places, a chance to ease up. differently. This would not be readily observable to an outsider (or even to many insiders), and is simply a matter of the way organizational patterns have evolved. There is nothing at Hamilton comparable to the College Senate at Union; in fact, goven1ance. here resembles superficially that at Union five or six years ago with the faculty being the center of power on almost all matters. Student committees run parallel to~ those of the faculty. Joint meetings are often held but student input is advisory only. The Student Senate controls distribution of the student fee but has very little power beyond that. Students seem generally satisfied with this arrangement although it is perhaps more accurate to say that most are simply not interested. Wrestlers Split 'The IDOL has chosen 'Creativity' as the theme for its next. publication. We invite all the students at Union.to contribute to our 'creative' project. We would like essays (200 words or less), poetry, photography, scholarly papel's, stories, graphics, etc. Which deal with the problems of determining what creativity is and its scope of application to all fields of life. Submissions can be left at . the Circulation Desk in the Library or at the Student Activities Office. Due to a printing deadline, we can: · accept no material for publication after March 10, 1973. It may be appropriate to interject here some words about Kirkland College. Five years ago Kirkland was founded by Hamilton design as a \coordinate college for women.\ Its campus adjoins ours and the 600 or so women enrolled there may do course work at Hamilton just as our students may take work at . R. Gordon Bingham, Assistant to the President of Union College until last summer, is now Dean of Students at Homiltoh Colle~e. :NEWEs···y· ·LUNCH t·or-·the best h~ldogs and sauce in town. ' M-F 8 a.m.-2 a .. m. W,eekend$ 8 a.m.-4 a.m. ~15 Albany St. 346-9424 Another fairly obvious difference to rp.e ,is .a much clearer sense of. community here than at Union. This is partially a result of physical factors: the College is about half the size of Union and over half the faculty live within a five minute walk fr~m the campus. Also, twelve of the ninety fulHime faculty (and all of the Admission staff) took their undergraduate degrees here. - Dave\s~ Mens Shop 453 State St. (downtown Schenectady) COLlEGE ARCO 717 NOTT ST. (Near VanVranken Ave.) EXPERT REPAIR SERVICE _,_. -~- --- Before ~aturday,s Home Game Come To Moffett's Liquor Store and try one of our fine wines We Have The Lowest Prices in New York State FIVE ROOMS AVAILABLE .FOR PARTIES AND BANQUETS Featuring italian-American Cuisine 'fflot£er :J.erro ~- · Je:Jtauranl 1115 BARRETT STREET SCHENECTADY, N.Y. F:REE PARKI}JG -Tel Dl6-9554 or FR7-l64:t OPEN 7 DAYS A WEEK Continu~d from Page 4 . After aiO minute break, the Dutchmen were back on the mat to face the grapplers of Binghamton. With a record of 7-2-0, they threatened to fight a good battle, but Union was determined not to fall. Mark ZuUo brought in the Gamet's first three points with a superb battle over Bill Keefe, winning 17-11. Bruce Freeman, putting up a long fight, suffered his third loss of the seaso .1, losing 6-7 .. Bruce got a point for riding time but still fell one short for a draw. Freshman Scott Media came through with a 1-l tie to give Union another two points, totalling five against Binghamton's eight. By the end of six matches, the Garnet . . ' Seniors: Graduation announcements - Please place your order as soon as possible with Mrs. Marra in Student · Activities Office. Deadline is • March 2, 1973. * *. * * Attention Big Brothers and Sisters: Because of a \townie\ problem. at basketball games the Athletic Department has instituted a $1.00 cover charge for all non Union students. You may still attend games with your little brother I sister free of charge if you let the Athletic Office know a day in advance so that they may have a ticket waiting at the door. * * * * The Big Brothers and Sisters are ha:ving a roller skating party at Rollo-Rama this Sunday, February 11, from 2 to 5 p.m. To reserve a spot call Nancy Reardon at 377-4994. See you there. * * * * All students interested ir. movement and good physical conditioning are cordially invited to join a three-week workshop in Tai-Chi-Chuan, led by Ahmer Khan, beginning Tuesday, February 6th. The workshop will be held on Tuesdays, Thursdays, and Fridays, from, 4:30 to 6:00 p.m., in Humanities 019. All interested should come in tights and leotards or sweatclothes. No experience necessary; come one, come all. Sign up in the Nott Memorial Green Room. Brought to you by the Social Committee and the Mountebanks. Levrs ,1\avo.:e.d Dy; l'be llnloA Altbletic :r:eamsl• , • , , \ . • , • ~ , ·, t : .· . . ·:· .... ~ . '. ' '' ........ ~~~~~~~:.:..w grapplers were moaning behind a scare of 5-14. It was then that 167 lb Steve Schutzer stepped on the mat and brought home six big points with a pin over Ed Goden in 0:53. After a long and depressing opening in the season, Steve managed to anchor a win - and a first class win at that. Howie Benedict pulled in an easy six with a forfeit. This put the score at 17-20 and the pressure. on freshman Greg Lyons who had a make-it or break- it match facing him. He battled a good one and brought the Dutchman a tie by decisioning. This Saturday, Union will travel to Amherst to faceanotherdouble dual meet with Amherst and Worchester Polytechnic Institute. :Spring Term Pre-Registration\ Notice: Pre-registration materials for spring term will be available at the Office of the Registrar, Room 2, Administration Building, beginning Monday, February 19th. Students are urged to promptly secure their copy of these materials. Students who do not, plan to return to Union for the spring term; except for graduating seniors, should also report and give notice of their plans. Students should confer with Faculty Advisers during the four days of February 20-23. Some departments may announce special arrangements for advising. Please be alert for such announcements. Course requests are due at the Office of the Registrar not later than February 26th. * * * * All engineers are invited to a joint ASCE-IEEE-ASME meeting on Wednesday, February 14, at 7:30 in Butterfield 109. Mr. Lawrence Mollander, the secretary to the licensing board for professional engineers, will speak on the P.E. licensing test. This should be of particular interest to seniors an<! juniors. Refreshments will be served. *' * * * The Students International Meditation Society will present a 1st Introductory Lecture on Transcendental Meditation on Tuesday, February 13, in Old Chapel at 8 p.m. On Thursday, February 15, a 2nd Introductory Lecture on TM will be given at 8 p,m. in Old Chapel. ' PLEASE PA 'fRONIZE OUR. A.D,YERTlSERS, *********** ~ANTA DANCE? How about this Saturday night, February 10, at 8:30 in the gym! , Live band - FAST · · HURRY. J<ree admission with . Union J.D. Sponsored by the· · UColl S@cial Committee. *********** Wanted (Needed): Person to wait and dishwash for banquet on Saturday night, February 17th. Would pay $5 plus excellent meal and extras. Please call Psi Upsilon, (346-9330) as soon as possible. * * * * Anyone who is interested in working on the Mountebanks Radio Theater is asked to sign up in the Green Room of the theater and to attend a meeting Tuesday afternoon at 4:30 in the Green Room. Everyone is welcome to come join. * .- * * l would appreciate it if there is anyone on campus who would like to read a textbook · for. Organizational Psychology on tape. The reader will be paid by the state through Mr. Holmes, bursar at Union College. The rate will be $2.00 per hour. l would prefer that the reader have his or her own machine. Please · contact me. Diane Devlin, 331 Hulett Street, Schenectady, Phone number, 377-5735. * * * . * ' Tickets are now available in the Nott Memorial box office for the coming production of The Marowitz Hamlet. There will be an open dress rehearsal on Tuesday the 13th, and performances Wednesday the 14th thtough Saturday the 17th, all beginning at 8 p.m. Union students will be admitted free; •• all others will be charged $2.00. Don't get stuck on a waiting list: reserve your tickets now. Tile box office is open every afternoon until 5:00, and evenings from 7-9. Phone 370-6153. All candidates for baseball •itchers and catchers are to report to Coach Lawrence's office in the Gym, Monday, Feb 12 at 1 J!l.m.' \ .. ll<' * i!c

; 1 ' Page4 Friday, Fc~lmtwy 9, 197 3 'W. k' B H - · 1c urns . oopsters; . . Fro:sh CagerS Streak Stopped at Five As Doyle Excels A • Finally, Lose by BILLY lleBEAR It came as quite a surprise to U. Coil basketball fans when they Ie~rned that the frosh had returned from Hartwick ·w.~dnesday night w1th the first blemish on their otherwise untarnished record. Hartwick,. better than their 2-7 record indicates, but not of Union's calibre, pulled off the startling upset mainly because of theirdesireto knock off the ll- 0 Garnet. by MAR·K W. MINDEl lead down to eight with four The streak has stopped. minutesleftbutcouldnotgetclose Hartwick College, from Oneonta, enotlgh to pull within contention. raisint..it.l! record to 12:4 with its ' One of the main reasons Union sixth consecutive win of the season, feU behind in the contest and halted Union's own five game win eventually lost the game was' a lack skein, with a 72-60thumping of the of offensive discipline. The pace of Dutchmen. The 'Wick' held as the game was set by Hartwick and much as a 27 point lead before Union can not afford to let this Union could get any type of offense happen again. rolling. Mike Doyle, who shines in away Hartwick was obviously high for ball games, hit his second straight this contest. Last year Union twenty point night (with 22) along humiliated them 75-53 in a contest with grabbing 15 rebounds to pace played amid word from NESCAC Union. Doyle has now scored 57 that Union could not accept a points in his last three starts .. tournament bid. The. 'Wick' had GeoffWalkeraddedfourteenfor come full of confidence that they, Union as the only other double not NESCAC, would be the ones · figure scorer. Bacher,whowasheld. to KO Union. The 'Wick' learned to only six points, relinquished his their lesson on the court, as did team leadership in total points and Union Wednesday. average to Doyle, by one point, 197 Hartwick played a tight man to to 196. Doyle now leads Union in man defense which effectively shut almost every offensive category, in off Tom BilCher at the post. fact eight of eleven, including Union's guards-could not work the scoring rebounding, assists, and ball into T J and the flow of the free throw~. offense was' stopped. Luke Dillon. is now officially lost Hartwick opened up quickly and for the season, because of torn led 15-5 with twelve minutes cartilege in his knee. Little Luke remaining in the opening half. will face possible surgery in his Union's trap press, the mail\- knee for the offense. This loss is a weapon responsible for winning ·big one to Coach Walters, inspite eight .of the previous nine contests, ofthe fine play ofChuck Abbiund was broken by Kevin Mulcahy, a John Denio, because itnarrowshis former high school teammate of possible manuverings during the Bacher's at Catholic Central in game with his backcourt. It also Troy. forces Denio and Abba to play a Mulcahy risked leaping high in full game, including pressing, the air above the trap to be able to without fouling .. To help alleviate spot and hit the open man. the problem, Walters has been Mulcahy's ability to hang using Bill Henson of the freshmen suspended in the air was the key to team in practice. breaking the press. The trip to Har.twick was an Hartwick built the lead to 39-16 add'ed burden to Union as Coach with three minutes left before Bill Scanlon lost his first game of Union closed the 'gap to 41-22 at the season, including soccer in the t.he half. fall and the first part of the hoop Hartwick outscored Union 10-2 season. Greg Peterson, a former over the first five minutes of the Niskayuna standout, led the second half and opened its biggest Hartwick JV's in the upset with lead of the night 51-24. 21 points. . Charlie Gugliotta replaced Union plays Hobart here Friday · Ba~her at the pivot and Union's night and follows up with Stevens offense, which had been forcing Tech on Saturday afternoon a:t 4 bad shots in an attempt at playing p.m. Hobart has beaten Ithaca: and quick 'catch-up' ball, returned to H~!.rpur, fine teams, this year who its normal fluidness. Union promises to· be tough. Former . controlled the game for the first Guilderland .star, Kevin Legg leads time and ran up II straight points, Hobart. Stevens is hard to assess. and outscored Hartwick 8-3 over They gave Union aU it wanted l~t the next five minutes to close the year at Stevens, thanks to 31 points score to 54-42. from Tom Cress, and tough Union eventually whittl~d the rebounds by bearded Tom Union Freshman Basketball Statistics 2/5/73 · Games Raymond, Jon Kelly, Steve Coppola, BiD Gillum, Mark Marc.iJJ,owski, Ray Henson, Bill Viniar, Dave Breton, Brian Glazer, Mark Malkowich, Dave Others II II 11 II 11 9 9 II 6 4 Points ··14;8 142 94 .9J 78 76 59 49 46 42 40 Avg •. _ 13.5 '12.9 8.5 8.5 7.1 6.9 6.6 . 5.4 4.2 7.0 10.0 Aga(n, Vhion's leading scorer, Mike Doyle photo by Bill Erichson Mclnerry. Yet this seasonthey beat Drew by only one point. As for the afternoon starting time, word has it that Mike Doyle has been upset for having to miss the Mary Tyler Moore Show every Saturday night. ~l !!!!!! g~~~. ~ ~ : !!!II I ;~wocf i:i I :1~11 ~:~;.~ ~ ; I! 111 Totals . 32 8 72 * * * * UNIONFROSH G F T Kelly 8 2· 18 Coppula 2 1 5 Raymond 5 2 f2 Glazer 4 0 8 Breton 3 0 6 Gillum 2 0 4 Totals 24 5 S3 HurtwickJV G F T Pieri 5 3 13 Med'scy 2 !l 4 Law'nce 3 3 9 Hopkins 4 1 9 Pel'son 8 5 ;21 . Totals 2Z 12 56 ~~~::::::~::::::::~:::~:::;~:~::::::::::!:::::::::;:::::::;::::::~::~:~:::::::::~~:::;~;;; In losing, the freshmen appeared to be off in m~st ;~bases of the game. Bersides allowing Hartwick to set the tempo of the game, the Garnet shot and rebounded poorly and no player was able to effecti~ely take charge. Even at the foul line :the visitors could~nage only fiVe points in eleven attempts; the hosts benefitted from twelve char·ity points. But the crowning blow that ultimately cost Union the game was the fact that the players could not convert the many easy layups that they took. While they had relied heavily on inside baskets· to easily defeat Drew last week, in this. corttest upwards of ten layups were muffed. · Union was hurt frotn the beginning by fouls as Bill Henson accumulated three early ones. He and. starting forward Bill Coppula eventually fouled out and this necessarily diminished the team's scoring potency. Only the good shodting of Mark Glazer, who scored all eight 0f his. points in tb.e fitst half, kept the Garnet-within range, as Hartwick opened a 32-24 halftime lead. · But, unlike previous games this season, the fxeshnen were unable to t:everse their poor first half .perfortQance du,ring the .final twenty minutes of regulation time. ln fact, in tire Jatter stages of the contest Union fell behind by as much as fourteen ·points: But,-wllenfaced with the reality that· Hartwick might inflict thecinitiar loss of the seasoh on the. G~rnet, the team responded !lS they pegan tQ whi,ttle~.away 'the • deficit, as Mark Gillum led the waywith:sevetal quicJc-steals. However,· the poor foul shooting, especially in the bonus,situatioh, qombined . with _several missed layups came ·b'ack to haunt the ftosh, as the rally feU three points short at the final buzzer. · Gteg Peterson, who ironically resides in Schenectady, paced the elated winners with 21 point&, and there was no Union player.who could match his performance. For the once-beaten Gar-net, only Steve Kelly and John Raymond could score in double figures, as they tallied 18 and 12 .respectively. Coach Scanlon and his players were understandablyupset with their performance, and don't intend to allow this to happen again. The coach believes that his team knows wbat it feels like to lose and doesn't like it. The freshmen will quickly have a chance to avenge the loss as they face Albany State tonight before the varsity contest. The G;eat Danes should provide excellent competition and an interesting matchup, considering the fact that both teams earned close victories over a good Siena club earlier in the season. Garnet Matmen Win And Draw by KIPP The Garnet grapplers have broken their streak of an even 50:50 record; they now hang on to a new and better one of 6-5-1. In the double dual meet last Wednesday at Hobart, the rnatmen overcame Hobart by a score of 27-21 and _ pulled in a draw with Binghamton, 20-20. Again, as in the last double dual against RPI and St. John . Firsher, the grapplers were at a slight disadvantage because they wrestled back to back, but being prepared for it this· time, they managed to emerge S'!lCcessful. In the first round, the Dutchmen came head to head with the Statesmen of Hobart Col~egy, whose record. up until then W{l.s 2-6- 0. Leading -Qff was. Mike Wal·ker, back at ·118 lbs, who battled a tough and .exhausting match, finl!.lly bowiog out witb a Loss of 6- 7. His opponent claimed the winning point with riding time- a great effort for Mike none-the-less. ·Breaking through for the Garnet score were Captain Mark Zullo VARSITY STATISTICS and team-mate Bruce Freema·n, · each of whom pinned his man, in 6:13 and 3:04 respectively: Frosh Tom Everett added another six to the, Garnet effort by a pin in the second perfod in 2:51. A 'decision from Gary. Gurney at l77lbs arid a loss, despite a commendable ~ffort from Greg Lyons 'at 190 lbs., put th.. :eat a 21-2ltie. It was.all,o.n Howie's shoulders, who pinned his foe in 4:38, giving· Union the win over Hobart. After 13 Games Player G Pts. A vg. Bacher, Tom 13 188 14.5 ~ontinued on Page 3 Doyle,, Mike 13 175 13.5 Walker, Geoff 13 146 11.2 Levfs Abba, Chuck 13 127 9.8 Denio, John 10 60 6.0 Combs, Tom · 11 55 5.5 Dillon, Luke 9 41 4.6 Dave's· Mens Shop Gugliotta, Chuck 12 41 4.4 453 State St. . . Others 7 24 3.4 tdowntown Schenectady) ti:::;;:::~;:;::;:;:;:;~:;:;~;;:;:~~;:~;:;:;:;:::;:::;:;:~;:::n:::;:;;:;:;f.:?,;;;:~::;:~;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;~;;~:;:;:;:;:;:;~:;:::::::::::~;:;:~~:;:;:::::;::~:;~:;:;:;~:;:;:::;:;:;:;:;:;?::;:;:;:;:::::;:;:::::;:::::;:;:;:;~~;,. ~llillllllllllllllilllllliiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiHIIJilllfilililllllll~ ...,.._......;. __ _. ___ .......,. __ .....,_... __ .;........., ....... ___ .....-;ofoiiiiliiiill! 1!~1! Ma:urice.I.J. Graub,ar 7 ·J & .. Spns. ~!!1:-i ··M· ·. ·I···K· \·E ,.S_ .. §· .·M·'A· .. · M·.~ .. ·.A.·\.·B· .. fAN-··-c .... H· .. I'S\ Generations' . '•; ·. •. · . ., :;: ·:: '': '. ;:§;: ~ . . .. . • · ; nl.' • ~t. Je•reler' !*f. ii!' · · · · =: ~~1~1 . . l!!L~ ERIE' BLVD ~ ' ··REStAURANT \For· three ' HOt DOGS ,l\ <·, ··• .. ~1135 ~ B_,,.~t ·St .. ,. HB~~:~~~!~~ Real,. Italian.,- ·Food· Cooked To ·order :·:·: •t66_jay st.... :::::: 1 sANDwicHEs = Wt .c,ater, To· Students 1 ~. :1 For Honest Service ~:;:: = * * * * § The Frie11.dliest Place in ;rown · i~ And Good Jewelry . . . . . m111 i ll. 35 EI·r.e u' I··..J .§ .. ttPE·M· TO 3 .A M, FRI. a. 114: SA1. . :~:::~ HERSIIEL MA UltiCE 8 WALTER :::::: !! . · :.· . Y.u. . 5L ~,.-...-~......::;,:..::::.:.;..~~...:r.-:~\-=-==:...;;.~\' ..;;.;.;.;.;..;.------ :*l!:!lr:;;:;~m::::::~~:;~;~:~:::!:::~:::;:;:;:;~,;:~:~;~:;:;:;:~;~:::::::;:;:::~;:;;;:;~:::::::::::;:;:::;:~;:::¥:;~::~:;:;:;~:;:;~::::::::::::~:;:;:;::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~::?;!;~:;:;:t;:::::~::::~M:~!l!li .. :fiillllllllil lllllli.II!.IIIJI.IIIIIillii!IIII1111.111~1111!1111~11~ .. 1F __ . . : 1 ~ : . .: ~~ ,> t • .. ' <IJ) • ,, . <IJ) • Q:' •

.ey rht :k,.' ed 11- he he to .ge .ve he .sy ~ts · ps 011 da r1's· ed as to lty st, .th Em he - ~r. ed · Uy he llO , ve ed ~ir he as :at ng ies ~cr, -6- er, a ;h, 6- he -a ss. 1et llo L·n, · in •sh to he on ia >rt fUt ().D ttis rin I t: il 1 I.:- t • '·· ' <1)) • fJ • . ~ •. .(1 • .. , • «' • foundedat Union Colltge in 11177 Vol. 102~ No. 30 Tuesday~ }~ebruary 11, 1973 Martin, Timberlake Maku Annual Report for '71-'72 by ILLYRIA PUHAIUCH successful basketball season~ President Harold C. Martin and Union has experienced in the Dale F. Timberhi.ke, Comptroller previous two years. Permission and..Treasurer, w;entlycreleased a was requested of the NESCAC to report on. \the state of Union, 1971- participate in post-season contests, 72,;, not to be confused with but was denied .. The issue is still President Nix·on's State of the unresolved:,. the options being to Union Address. Th·e. report .r.esign. from the conference or includes a.co.mprehensiva•review of accept the decision of the administration decisions in the NESCAC. President Mattinhopes past year and a financial report. that \a compromise may develop President Martin begins his OHt of the Eastern College Athletic commentary by stating that, Conference discussions, nowgoing although political activism has lost on, to deve.lop brief regional its fervo,r on campus, the energy tournaments in place of the seems now to be focused ·on issues· · comprehensive area tournament of sp·ecific to the <;ampus. j past years, but .that too is 'on the Last June the Board ofTtustees agenda'.\ set a limit ofsixty per cent tenured . Academic changes were seen in positions for the faculty overall, the engineering program. New allowing for up to sixty-five pe_i programs were instituted to cent in any particular department. accommodate declining interest in Because of student and faculty the engineering fields, a decline protest more flexibility was put which has been experienced in into the program. Again these many educational institutions. The decisions have come under attack new program takes an with the recent withholding of tenure for several pr0fessors. It was the hope of the administration that the decision of last June would solve the tef\ure problem., but t<he- . · issue is again up for comideration:. and is unresolved •. · . .;_ · President Martin cites three. considerations to be made when dealing with ten . .ll.r~e ,pol.icy: ''fle).{.ibility fo meet tfiedemands-af-- educationaf . changes; constant strengthening of the. faculty by acquisition of men and women fresh fro.ffi university centers where. the fFontiers of I,carning are to be . found, and economy.\ · · .. approved. but there is no money that may be used forthesech<:1nges at this time. The changes brought to Union in 1971-72 were not dynamic by any means, yet they show the continual reassessment of the College environment, goals, and facilities which are essential to any academic institution so that it may not stagnate and wither away. Economically, Union did as well as any other institution of its size and nature in the year 1971-72. Comptroller and Treasurer Dale F. Timberlake reports a deficit of $216,636 for the fiscal yearending June, 1972. !his compares favorably with a deficit of $389,332 in the previous year. Mr. Timberlake states that \preliminary projects for 1973-74 indicate a surplus, but less than enough to offset last year's loss.\ The financial table from the Annual Report is printed below: Cumf)im!ler Dale F Timherlake photo by Lcs Kernan Where the money came from ••• 1971-72 How the . money was spent. 20 cents · Major changes were made in .1972 in the scholarship pr.ograrn directed t-oward· the children of employees. The program began in 1962 \as a fringe ·benefit to offset relatively low salaries for those families on which the cost of higher education would fall most harshly.'' Tile program was reconsidered because the number of faculty and staff children attending the College has risen considerably. The trustees changed tw,o aspects of the program for those presently· included in it. The maximum scholarship has been set at $1250 (one-half of .the tuition charge at that time) and the maximum total outlay has been set at 50 thousand dollars. For employees hired after September. 1972, the program is limited to two children in each family and the actual saholarship given is related interdisciplinary approach; coupling variol,ls fields of engineering with work in the physical sciences. Early response to the new program has been favorable, and it is the hope of the administration that it will provide a needed revitalization of the engineering program. Dog Court H~ears Case . to the tuition charge in public universities in New York State. lhe third. major alteration in school administration came in governance. The College Senate was formed censisting of elected representatives from the facalty and students, and appointed members from the administration. The body's function. is to provide· advice or decisiohs (which would then be subject to approval by the \ trustees) on matters of campus- wideilJ\P.ortance. President Martin comrnenis here t~at the system has yet to pFove itself and, if it is found to be.' unsatisfactory, further adjustments will be made. In. 1971-72 a topic of great concern,, wa& Uniein College's participatig.n.· tn a newly-formed athletic conference. The question arose because the league would not allow us to compete in eastern regional competition.' Concern for alteration .of participatory poI icy arose ?ecaJise of t~JreQii:m~,pus.)y The Biology Depattment has been besieged by pre-meds, and although this is a testimonial to the College's success in placing its graduates in major medical schools, it has caused difficulties. The Biology D.epartmertt feels that, because of this trend, discipline is being slighted: Thus, the .. concern of the Department has been in part to diversify its population and to encourage more of its students to consider graduate study in the field. Some success has been shown in this area. . Projects that President Martin would like to see become realities include renovation of the Hale 'House kitchen and conversion of Old Chapel into a less formal dining room so that the one inHale House might be reserved for form,al dinners. The Gymnasium, built in 1913, shouldbereplaced by a modern building, which could better accommodate increased enrollment. A high priority is a composition froor in the Field House and· retractable b teachers so that the space of the building may be more effectively used. Changes for the Field House l1ave beeh ., rLEASE PATRONIZE . OU~ AI;lVERTJSERS by ANDY PEARCE On Thursday, February 8, Union College's Traffic and Pet Court met at 7:00 P.M., in the faculty lounge in the Social Sciences Building. The defendant was a small black and white dog named Buffy. Buffy was charged with defecating in the halls of [)avidson south. After a fifteen- minute discussion between the owner, Alan Schur, the four complainants, and the four members of the court, Buffy was found guilty and fined five dollars. Buffy's case is memorable because it is the first time that anyone has charged a dog and its owner with negligence and violation of the pet guidelines. The four who brought Buffy in for trial are Lou Snitkoff, Donald Mirate, Alan McClelland (of 321 Davidson), and Peter Bickerman of 252 Davidson. They daihl that, although Schur and Buffy live in 358 Davidson, the dog always crosses the buildi':lg and arrives <>n the second and third floors, attracted by another canine, Danny, who lives there. However, Buffy's v1s1ts are always punctuated by feces dropped on the .hall ciupe.t; or garbage bins upset. In pleading his case to the judges, Schur claimed that Buffy was ''85% trained\ and he, Schur, . could not' be considered responsible for her actions on other floors. Schur continued by claiming that \90% of the dogs in school violate the regulations,\ so why should only Buffy be punished? The court stipulated that this makes no difference in dealing with offenders, since nobody filed complaints about these other dogs. The court is made up of four students: John Van Horne. Estelle Cooke, Audrey Kupchan, and Peter Tavino. After an ·eight- minute deliberation, the cdUrt reconvened and came out with the following statement: \We impose a five dollar fine for past violations under Two and Seven.\ These two of the nine regulations in the pet code state: (2) Animals must be on a leash of maximum length 15 feet and under the direct and immediate cohtrol of the owner when moving from place to place on campus; this means that the leash must be held by the pwner. At all other times, animals must be housed under conditions adequate to their welfare and to the safety of members .of the community. (7) Owners hold full liability for all damage and harm done by their animals; the College assumes no liab'ility whatever. The cour.t continued, \If another valid complaint is brought here, it will result in BufTy being remove.d from campUs' and, to avoid further· complaints, we ask Mr. Schur to restrict her from other floors and to train her better.\ When asked later to whom the five dollar fine would go, (fines may run to as much as twenty-five dollars. or a dog may be expelled from campus) the dog court answered that they did not know. They thought that perhaps it would go to Dean Edward Malloy, who attended the trial, but they could not be sure. During a discussion period, while the court was recessed to make their decision, Mr. Schur began to argue with the collected audience, reiterating that all dogs violate the regulations, and that people should be more tolerant of them. At this point, Mr. Malloy, showing signs of anger, asked. \Why should everyone have to conform, just because you want a dog?\ Dean Malloy expressed some views about the trial and pet control in general, after the final verdict. When asked what was the effectiveness of the dog court. Dean Malloy replied, \Let's hope this is the beginnings of it.\ Malloy implied that the court is limited in its power. Only dogs who violate the regulations in dorms can be brought to trial. Also, only dogs about which people make specific Continued on Page 3

\ Page2 CONCORDIENSIS, Tuesday, Fehruary 13, 1973 Letters To the Editor: explain your unjust and administrationshouldbecutmost unwarranted attack. sharply. While I have tried to To the Editor: Wilson pointed out, youth gangs As you know, I despise allowing disputes to degenerate into personal attacks, but your editorial of February 2 is nothing but a character assassination of the administrative personnel at Union. In your editorial you say (I) you find a \lack of concern\ for students \held by virt,uall;y ai.J members of this College's administration.\ You s~y (2) you \have reached the point where there is literally no administrator whom you feel you can trust,\ and (3) you \have no respect for this administration.\ These are sweeping and broad charges and are nothing short of a personal attack u_pon the integrity..o,f ·each person who is an administrator in this College. Minimally they demand complete and thorough evidence. l have no doubt that you have little more than mere passing acquaintance with most of the administrators; I am at a loss to It is said we should worry about suppress the elass interests dividing student morale; it is ~aid we should fac u 1 t y. students and worry about faculty morale. We administrators, the facts remain should. Do you assume that we that the total faculty size· has need not worry about the morale of increased slightly, the Student Aid those who are administrators? budget has increased generously Certainly you can and should point under the circumstances, and the out mistakes; certainly you can administratio·n has shrunk. even .say the mistakes are so (Rumors to th:e contrary. numerous that the person notwithstanding, administrators responsible should resign or be are fited.) President Martin The lecture by Professor James are being organ,i:r.ed anew in many Wilson on the. \heroin epidemic\ of of these areas and are \turning the 1960's set)med to me to reach againstdrugs,\forbiddingdruguse the crux of the problem when QtJ . among their memb<;rs and driving described' the. prime (though ·iwi '\\~the drug pushers.' off the streets. sole) location of this· phenomenon Th~ new ga;ngs .•. indeed sec as among big-city, inner-city, low- themselves as \ setving their income youth. To a sociologist thiS' communities. Perhaps they will observation raises the question of become part of an or-gantz~tibnal whether this probl~m could be and p.olitical. respons~ 'td the more fruitfully seen as a n:sult of problems o'f poverty in thid970)s. poverty (after .aU, unemployment One hopes s.o. Thetl 11 ~o'cietal rates among inner-city youth were managers may content themselves, and remain as high as 35%; family as Professor Wilson suggested. income in these urban ghettos is with seeking ways of · eady generally well below the poverty identification and effective line) than of increasing numbers of coritainmen\t of such epitlernics of youth in society as a whole, and self-destructive liehavior as heroin any increasing rebeLliousness a-nd addiction. Social scientists, thrill-seeking among youth, to however, cannot be co.ntent with which the speaker seemed to this managerial ~;tp.proach to attribute the phenomenon. societal problems. They .must Technological change and racial ccintinue to seek the 'causes of discrimination have systematically behavior in the life situ~ti&rls'.hf the excluded inner city blacks from ·groups in which they occut·. And effective participation in the social reformers and political economy, and heroin use in the activists must address themselves slum could be seen as a personal to finding ways <.>f -removing response to an intolerable (and p-overty, as the· 4:efining unalterable) social situation rather characteristic of the poor and the than si!Jlply a hedonistic seareh for most probable. source of their life · fired. No one . is perfect. No thought he did it out of concern for administrator I know hl:is wrapped students; you think it was his himself or herself in an · special ego-trip. On what grounds? unassailable cloak of perfection. Perhaps -we should increase the But to accuse each and every one of Housing staff. Perhaps you would being untrustworthy, and to do so li~e to suggest means of payment: with such scant evidence is more even sharper increases in tuition'? than any of us should be asked to less student ai<!'? less salary raised? tolerate. Mature people can disagree on With respect to the only these issues, and the Budget and t*iirtdples you raise, there is no Priorities Committee is one place doubt Mrs. Beam's position to try out ideas arid express demands herculean efforts. opinions about relative priorities. Whoever denied it? When it The columns of Concordiensis are became clear that the College was another perfectly legitimate place going to face serious budgetary to express alternative views. They constraints, President Ma.rt·in are not, however, the place to made a decision that the launch dirty and unsub&tant·iated Our Reputation When a college newspaper seeks to reach beyond the realm of merely disseminating news and attempts to deal with the 'greater' issues of institutional life, that newspaper can get 'burned' quickly if it does not act judiciously. Co~cordy has a dubious reputation of never getting all the facts straight and acting irresponsibly when it seeks to challenge anyone under the guise of aggressive or investigative journalism. For this reason, interest in this newspaper is at a low level throughout the Union community, and few people (whether they read this newspaper or not) have much respect for it. In our \Damn It All!\ editorial in the issue of February 2, 1973, we acted irresponsibly by publishing a blanket indictment of all of Union's ad~inistrators on the. gro\lnds. of tJ:!eir .lack of ·c~~cern f~r students and our subsequent lack of trust in them. We made a mistake in pr;,:ring those loose and unsubstantiated charges. We still have questions about the entire operation of Union, questions that bother us deeply, questions that are brought to our attention by people without the Administration, and questions which we have an obligation to investigate fully (if that is possible) before we lambaste the entire Administration as we did. Ours was a mrstake of alluding to accusations we ·had not substantiated, but we would hope that in the future, if we honestly uncover inability or inefficiency, we can present the situation in a mature manner. And what about our image of irresponsibility, inefficiency, and blandness as a newspaper? Concordy is not now a dynamic newspaper because it operates with only a minimal staff. We are unable to do the job we would like to do because we do not have enough people working for us. It is a simple fact .that more student participation would make this a better newspaper. Concordy's irresponsibility is the fault of those students who complain but do not choose to help us out. - gsb CONCORDIENSIS founded at Union College in 1877 Editor-in-Chief ......................... George Bam News Editor ............................. Tim Cain Managing Editors .................... Rita Morandi Dave Strom Features Editor .......................... AI Reisch Sports Editor ..................... Bruce Batchelder Photo Editors ........ : ...... .' .......... Les Kernan Jeff Weilburg Business Manager ................. Michael J. Hurley National Advertising .................. Stephen Ke!ly Subscriptions ....................... Mike Bernstein Contributing Editors ............... Peter Bickerman Office Staff Phil Alcabus Doug Carpenter Gary Lovett lllyria Puharich Dan Rothhlum Louis S. Snitkoff Robin Waring Bill West . . . t'oncordiensis ., ruh!J,ht•d l'\l'f\ ., lll'\'··~ and I f·ld;tl Lhll in~ th,· \\hoof yl'al c\t'<'Pt dtmng c\,lllllll<lth>ll and· l,t<'alulll fl<'ltnd' 1'>1 tit,· 'ttllknt \'''\ ol t 111<111 C'ull.:g,·. Sdlt:ll<'<'tadl. \\ \ati<>IHtl .t<hc'lthlll!! '''l'l'''\nt.IIIIL' \.;ltttlll.tf f·dut·atJ<>n;tl ·\dlc•rf\l\111!! Sen•r,·. Inc. <\oil Puhft,h,·t, ih·pn·,,·nt.ttl\1,'. :\ational hhtc;itlt>nal o\d1erti,1n!! Sen.,., .. ltll\ .. \.\ .(. I d•t•u ml Ollt<'<'. Old (ilm. tfnion CtlffL')!e. f>,uf>lit·atwn Ollie,•. I he· .ln11'h \\<>lid f'ul'<ft<·;lti<lm. Tl siuto: Str.:ct. Sd1enerrad.1. '\.Y. 1~.1117. l.t6-2.15\1l. I nt,·r,·d 111 th,· Sdwn,·,·tad~ pnsl nlfict: n~ s~cond ('!;,,,Mail \lan,·r.Suh,ci\I\Jilit>ll 20 <'Cill,;t t'<l[I~-Sil ll yl'OII dcli\crcd :In\\\\ here in the l 'mkd State,, attacks upon the motivation, honesty,. and respectability of any group of people. But, apparently, you want none of this reasoning business. You want to mount personal attacks on over~rked, decent people, who (believe it or not), along with the faculty, make substantial sacrifices in the natne of their desire to helr. educate students. You do a disservice to your newspaper and this community. Willard F. En ternan Acting Provost * * * * Happy Valentine's Day to all. The Edit or * * * * · To the Editor: fhe letter concerning the display of the flag reminded us of the events of May 4, 1970. We all know that on that day four students· (including a high school cla~smate of mine- Jeff Miller of Plainview, Ll.) were killed at Kent State by the National Guard .. During that week, Union had already been in an uproar. Nixon was hung in effigy on the flagpole, we marched on G.E., etc., and after the deaths, the administration of Union College promised that some sort of memorial plaque would be placed on the flagpole. Almost three years have passed, and the only metallic addition to the flagpole has been th.e lock-box which will forever prevent Union students ft'om lowering the flagand stringing up effigies of their national heroes again, besides making it inconvenient for Security , to take in the Stars and Stripes as the sun sets over G.E. In addition to respel;ting the flag, we should remember the senseless deaths of four young Americans. Frank J. Allocca '73 Steven J. Shapiro '73 Howard N. Zaleznak '73 Timothy P. Cross '73 David A. Silberman '73 * * * * To the Editor: I am attempting to accumulate some meaningful data for a serious study on American communes. To that end, I wish to re-ach as mapy communes as possible by mail and in some cases for personal interviews, if aggreeable. I will be gratef1H if students, graduate and undergraduate, who are living in communal situations, will .write me indicating wiillingness tO: receive a· questionnaire. Size of commune i& unimportant; 3 or 4 people, up to any number. Sincerely, Mae T. Sperber 26 West 9th Street, 9E New York, New York 10011 * * * * Levrs an \ever greater high.\ · problems. Widespread heroin use in the big-city slums in the early 1960's coincided with the disarming and disbanding of the fighting youth gangs of the 1950's. As Professor yours sincerely' Harry L. Gr.acey Chab·man, Department .of So~iJUogy * * ·~~- :;~ :~-~j;i~ . \ ~ ;.. ' P/'(?ff>ssorJmw',\' Q. Wilson photo by Bill Erichson Frosh Hoop at 12-l Contin._t from Page4 the foul line in the bonus situation with I :07 to go, Albany had mOYed to within two points. Henson connected on the first attempt, and after missing· the second, raced down court to corral an errant Albany sh:ot. Union then went into a stall during the final 50 seconds, but after lulling State's inside defense to sleep, Kelly teamed with Raymond to tally on a perfectly executed back dcor play and sew up the victory. Union offense to just 21 second half points. However, they la¢ked the balance and talent thatenahl¢d the Garnet to extend their record to 12 and I. All!any JV Eisenmdn Kapner Boyer Al.icea Russell Ruiek Theberge Merrit Tolals * * \\ Union Ft'O~h G F T 10 2 22 Raymond 2 0 :1 Kelly 1 0 2 Coppula 2 0 4 Gillum 1 0 2 Marc'ski 2 0 4 Henson 1 0 2 6 l 13 25 3 53 Totals * * * * G 8 4 4 1 4 3 FT 0 16 6 1.i 2 10 0 2 0 8 2 !i 24 10 ss The Jazz Workshop will be The team's leading scorers, Raymond and Kelly, again paced the attack, as they netted l6 and 14 points respectively. Coppula finished the night with ten points, Henson and Marcinowski each had eight, and Gillum added a single bucket. playing in the Skellar Thursday,\ January 15, from 9:30 untilclm;ing (12:00). Jim Eiseman, who led the State comeback with 22 points, and the entire Albany defense deserved to . be commended on the fine job they · did in holding the. normally prolific ~~~~~~~~~ FOR LIQUOR AND WINE Try . ~ .. Jilt<e· \· * * * * PROCTOR'S WP:J: STATE ST .. SCHENECTADY Starts Feb. 14 .. . . . 1. h; i ·\ The Ltfe and T1mes·· of ·Judge Roy Bea'll'.· SiA~{JIJ.(hw · .. PAUl. ·NPYW~N. ~ ~!i!i~!!!i!~iB!iB!li~!i!ii~1!i~!!!~i~ .. ·· ,, Deadline i·or all cop~. 11htch mu;.r he t~ r<·d and douhk-,paced. j, \ p.m. un Monda\ and [ft(lrsda\ at rhc ('qncordl olfi,·L·. ;rhul<' Old Clr••f1d. Offic~ tclephnn<' nu~her (s .170-t>ISS: hltl tlli: ofli,·,· j, only 1ir u-.· n•1 \lontlitl aild Thun;da~· nighb. hu all editorial mutter,. •.::til rh,· .:dii<>Nn·,·hid at .NJ- . IMO: for information call Studcnr lklh il ies Olfico: ;u rO-(lfl K Dave's~ Men~ ~hop 453 State St · · (downtown· Sche~ectady) l Lipstein's t 464 State Street § .L~~~~. · Comfng Soon · Lady Sings the Blue·s. -. .. .-·-··· .,. . \ ·~

, ,1 \': \' . ·~ . ~· CONCORDIENSJS, Tuesd(ly. Fehrum:•·/3, 1973 Track Takes 1st Place Dog Court At R h t R I Continued. from Page 1 '· ,: ·'· 0 c e s e r e a y s complaints can be tr·ied. Free- . .. :;JfiJ . ; · • · . . roaming canines are beyond the · · · When d1e results were given the ·contri·buting a 2:02.5 leg, scope of the Traffic and Pet Court. 0 ~- ''ill))' AUSON SLOAT Garneiteatn, David White, Fred equivalentto a sub two minute half \The pet court can't do anything . . n:· was. a proud Coach K11n PFessley, Paul Spence, and Tim mile. . . about the free-roaming dogs, Mi~llaelsen who came home. from McCabe had picked up 2% points In a dose £ight, Dutchmen Milt because 1 don't know who they 'R'ochester Saturday night. This in a 3:43.3 secone place tie with Herring, Freddie Pressley, Paul belongtoinmanycases,\statedthe .~as the first time that Uni0n McMaster, while Rochester Spence and David White Dean. CQ'ilege brought home the. first collected only one point for a combined to tie with Rochester's When asked if Buffy's t:rial.could place trophy from the Roche~ter fourth slot finish in 3:47.8: Varsity four lap relay team for be call~d a. test case for tuture Relays. from among twenty etght In one of the four new events second place, both schools .aetions against dogs, Dean Malloy competing schoo'ls U ·Col emerged listed for the daysactivities Union's finishing .3 seconds behind winner replied that he felt that it not be victorius. In 1972; the Dutchmen three sophomore weightmen, Bill Oneonta. consideredassuch.H~ereasonsthat placed foutih, two points b¢hind Mowery, Bob Cable, and AI All together Union placed in each case is brought in by an winner U. of Rochester, This year Gilewicz combined to win the shot seven out of eight events to bring individual with a specific Union nudg!!d out second place U. put relay and establish a record home the gladly accepted first complaint, and cannouherefore be of R. by a mere !.4 point. distance of 134' 10\-f'. place win. considered in a general nattern. The meetwasdecidedonthe last Three vaulters from U. of event ~ the eight lap relay, Rochester established the pole · ·' · ·' Rochester' answer to a one mile vault relay record at 37' 6\ but the '' ~ r~l'a~'. Going into the race Union Garnet trio ·of stavhoppers, Bill ''' 1 'w~s down one point to U. of R. Clayton, Dave Ricks and Bob Baribeau, was right up there at 37' 6\ bowing to second place on misses. Greg Hamlin, Scott Kalina, Mark Mindel, and Tim McCabe joined forces to turn in a '8:26.6 time and win the Varsity 16 lap relay. Mindel had another fine day ROCHI:STER RELAYS Teams Union 29, Roche.ster 28'12, Syracuse .1a. · R.IT 14'\· OneGnlo 6, McMaster 5 1 ,;, Os· J'lego s, Alfred 4, Srocl<port 3, Niagoro 3, 5t. Lawrence '2''• Hamilton 2, Mohawk Valley CC ~. St: Bonaventure 1. events Shot put~Union {Mowery, Cable, Gile- wtcz), -Rochester, Rit, 134-lO'h, (recordJ, 16·1ap relay-Un.ion (Hamlin, Kalina, Mindel, McCabe), Rochester., Alfred• 8:26.6. (Meet record). · Sprint mcdley~Syrawse, Union (Me> ro»e, Herring, White, Cutts), Rochester, 3:51. t-'Oie vault-Rochester, Union (,Ricks, ClaYton, Bcrlbeou), RIT, ~H .. Four~lqp ret<w-svracuse, un·ton !Her- ring, Pressely, Spence, While), MeMos• ler, 1:4().1. '\As.anyone who has had to stand on a waiting line in th~IQ'bby of N ott Memorial can tell you, there are invariably more people that come to see Mountebanks plays. than there are places to put them. This becomes painfully obvious when one calls for a ticket a week in advance, only to be informed politely that all performances are sold out. . . Part of the problem (aside from the tiny theater space) 1s that students take advantage of their free-admission status by coming to see plays three and four times. ~h~red.oes~xistanold ticket policy to the effect that the free admtsswn Is stnctly a one- performance-per-run deal, but it has n~ver been enforced. Never, that .is, until now. Faced w1th greater and _greater demand for reservations, the Mountebanks have dectded ~o bring back the old policy. Henceforth, any Union stude_nt Will be entitled toone free ticket to any one performance dunngthe run ofeach play of the season. If he/ she wishes to se~ t~e play again, she/ he will be required .to pay the $2.00 adm1ss10n fee charged to nonstudents. . . . . It is hoped that, through implementation of thts pohc~, each student ·will get his/her tax-money's worth of theater, Without also keeping someone else from exercising the same opportunity. .B-LITHER~ When questioned about dogs on campus, Dean Malloy expressed many definite opinions. As to the presence of the dogs themselves, Dean Malloy indicated that he did not appreciate them .. \I am certainly not for the free~roaming dogs here. They are a danger when they're in packs. The interests of the larger community have to come first. ·• . R~alizing that \the enforcement of the present regulations is the toughest part,\' Dean Malloy appeared somewhat skeptical about people obeying them. \Present regulations are fair, if people abide by them.\ The Dean then added in a sarcastic tone, o ·''And 'some·people do.\ This is the first year that dogs have been .legally sanctioned to hold residence at the College. However, the problem appears to be ge\ting out of hand, as Dean Malloy indicated. ''Unless the Environment Committee can come up with some way of enforcing the regulations, I think we should go back to the old way, and ban the dogs.\ As a final note, Dean Malloy was asked where he thought the five dollar fine would go. \l haven~t figured it out yet; maybe it'll he~p pay for the dog tags ~ I'm certainly not going to get rich on the money collected.\ * * * * Eight-lap relay-Syracuse, Union (While Prfrssely, Spence,. McCabe>. St. Lawrence, 3:42.5, High jump-Rochester, Alfred, Oneonlllo Union (Jackson, D!iStefanG, Gllewlcz). 18-1. The Big Brothers IS isters program will be showing Buster Keaton's \The General\ this Saturday in SSOI6 at 3:45. Refreshments will be served, and admission is free. Faculty children are welcome too! Crew work for Moonchildren. We've got a proposition for you .. Get it? A prop-position! Don't get up-set, we're not making-up any of this. We'd pay but it would ·costume much. Get it? Cost too much! Hah! We've got a million of 'em? Sign up today at the Nott MemoriaL The Union College Course Evaluation announces. with regret, that F'an Term's issue of Linebacker will be delayed a few more weeks. The cards for this term's evaluation are to be distributed soon·and we anticipate that there will be n:o delay in putting out that issue. Delays have been due to implementation of a new sy~tetp on the computer. All evaluations for this year will be computed using the median rather than the mean. . ~. . .. - ... .. ... ,.. . ~ Tim Mc'Cabc andunwf /11'(1 winning relay teams .fin· Union '.1 l'il'tury at the Rochester rela.n last Saturday. photo by Bill Erichsson ~ ~ Travel Bureau § § MOHAWK MALL § 370~0824 . ~- . § 151 Barrett St. § 346-3431 . § & · No Service Charge . ~ ~<Q><Q><Q><q•~;Q>~ '. MCAT-DAT-GRE LSAT·ATGSB OCAT NAT'L. BDS. * Pr~paration for tests required for admission to araduate and profes- sional school$ *Six and twelve session courses \' Small groups \Voluminous material for horne stud prepared by experts in each field . •Lesson ~hedule can be tailored to meet indi.vidual needs. Lessons cari be spread ovet a period of several months· to a year, or for oQt ~·f6'Nn students, a period • oHine week . • Opportunity-for review of past le5$0ns.{iia tape at the ;enter .. 11--lf.-¥-lf...lf¥•••• WRUC PROGRAM NOTES Tuesday, George Lip.sky's \Performing Live\ feat}lri~g Andy Rodgers and frif;!ttds. Wednesday; WRUC Brings Union Basketball starting· at 7:45 until C9ll]P~!!1ion~-. - . w ednesaay, New albums with Chuck Rothman starting a,fter the basketball game going until I 0 P.M. featuring Mississi.ppi John Hurt. · . Thursd.ay, 9-10 P.M. Roots of k.ock - Thursday, 10-Midnight \Smokey Joe's Cafe\ Gold by request. Saturday, Midnight-2 a.m. Bob McMichaels Sunday, from 10 a.m.-2 a.m. \The Turn Down Day\ Levfs Dave's· Mens Shop 453 State St. (downtown Schenectady) * * * * Ticket sellers are needed for the Mark-Almond concert during the week .Feb. l6-23rd. Anyone interested, please call Rita at 346- 9935 immediately!! * * * * Mr. ·Peter Greenwood, a candidate for a positi?il in the Department of Economics, wiJJ visit the camp,us on Wednesday, February 14, 1973, at 3:00 P.M., for an informal meeting with students in the Social Sciences Faculty ·Lounj;!e. ... - ...•...•..••.• i JAY- 5·· : ·Billiard : 1 Loun--ge : : 167 Jay St. : • -RELAX- • • • • PLAY PDOL • • • • Daily l0-10 p.m. • • • • Sunday 2-8 p.m. • .~ ..............• APEX MUSIC KORNER Announces New Student Discount For UNION STUDENTS UPON PRESENTATION OF COLLEGE I.D. YOU GET $1 00 OFF Regular List Price On All Albums & 1 OIDiscount or sale price with a 10% discou11t CORNER BROADWAY AND STATE ST. Rensselaer Union and Festival present: BETTE MIDLER FRIDAY ... FEB. 23 AT 8 P~M. R. P.l. Field House All seats reserved. $5, $4., $3 Now on sale at all Ticketranlocations * * * * Country Granola is a six piece electric rock band, singing songs of football, Lucy Ricardo, and cheeseburgers. Country Granola will be appearing at the Coffeehouse in Old Chapel on Friday night at 8:30 p.m. Admission will be 50 cents .and, as usual, coffee and donuts will be free . * * * * Seniors: Graduation announcements - Please place your order as soon as possible with Mrs. Marra in Student Activities Office. Deadline 1s March 2, 1973. * * * * There will be a meeting of the staff of Linebacker at 8 P.M. on Wednesday. February 14, in NW 327 of the S & E Center, unless the power hasn't been fixed, in which case it will be in the Computer Center Conferenee Room. Anyone interested in working (n-o experience or liking of the computer needed) please come . * * * * The Professor As a Scholar presents Prof. David Potts (History) and Prcf. Helen Testroet (Classics) on Wednesday evening, Feb. 14 at 7:30p.m. in Hale House Lower Lounge. They will discuss their own research and how it relates to their role as teachers. Rtfreshmeots served. * * * * Films This Week The Red Desert- Michelangelo Antonioni's first color film, which has arguably, the most imaginative use of color in arty film. As in most Antonioni films, the pace is slow and the .plot is negligible, but the compositions are magnificent. Monica Vitti gives her usual performance as the lost donna moderna. Lab fee course. Wednesday, February 14; 2:30 P.M., SS016. THX ll38 - Scheduled for a date earlier this term, the film was drawn into Union's own \black hole\ (the registrar's office) where it has lain until now. Thissuperior science fiction film is a visually exciting depiction of a future socit;ty in which sex is verbotenand people have numbers instead of names. Also on the same program, a short, Great Love Scenes. Film Haps. Admission $1.00. Wednesday, February 14,7:00 and 9:00p.m. tevfs n DaYe's Mens Shop 453 State St.· (do:wntown.S(:benectady) The General - One of the greatest of the silents, and Buster Keaton's masterpiece. Based on an actual Civil War incident in which a band of Confederate soldiers commandeered a Union train, this film is at once poignant and funny. A .. must\ for any film buff - or anyone else. Sponsored by Big Brothers/ Big Sisters. Also: the GreatChase,aneight-minute W.C. Fields comedy. Admission free. Saturday, February 17, 3:45 p.m. SSOI6. Sweet Sweetback's Badaaass Song - This chase melodrama, written by, directed by, and starring Melvin Van Peebles, was the first successful .. blaxfilm.\ Designed to shatter black stereotypes, the .picture has a distinctive brand of raunchy humor and rowdy sex. Film Haps. , Admission $1.00. Saturday and Sunday, February 17 and 18,7:00, 9:00 and ll :00 p.m. · Juliet of the Spirits - Fellini's sequel to his 8112, which examines the state of ex.istential drift from the woman's angle. Stars Marcello Mastroianni (of course) and f'ellini's wife, Giulietta Massina. In flagrant color. Lab· fee course. Monday, February 21, 2:30p.m.

\ Pai;e 4 rue.wla r. Fehrzwr.t· 13. 1973 Walker. Abba Lead Hoop Over Hobart And Stevens by MARK W. MINDEL The Union College basketball team rolled to two easy victories over the weekend, downing lifeless Hobart and Stevens 77-56 and 63- 39, respectively, on Friday night and Saturday afternoon. The twin victories raise the. Garnet's record to 11-5, tops among the big four area schools, as Albany dropped to 11-6 after 'losing to Siena (I 0-6 ). R.P.L, meanwhile, is also 11,;,6. · Another side effect of the two wins is that the defense, in allowing only 47 and one half points per game, dropped their previously 19th nationally ranked defensive point average to 59 points per game. It had been allowing 60.8 per game. Geoff Walker was th~;: offensive star for both games, posting game honors in both contests, 18 and 13, for a .total of 31 points. Chuck Abba was second high in both games and totalled 26 points ( 14, Friday and 12 Saturday), while Tom Combs combined for 22, Charlie Gugliotta for 21 and John Denio for 14. Both games were similar in that the opponent jumped to an early lead against a seemingly lackadaisacal Union offense, only to be buried in the end of the first half and sfart of the second half. Union's dynamic fu~l court press and fine disciplined ou~side sfiooting ( 16-29 in tl.~; first half) combined to pull Union away from a close· 17-16 contest with eleven minutes left in the first half against Hobart. Union opened'a 29-20 lead with 3:30 left which widened to 39- 25 at the half. Mike Doyle's three point play with 13 minutes left, however, gave Union a 13-12 lead which was never relinquished, Tom Bacher was injured with I :40 to go in the first half against Hobart and played no more the remainder -of the weekend. His \sprained knee,\ the result of a painf•1l twisting fall after a diving steal\ _off .the full .cour.t .press, hopefully wiH be ready for the Coast Guard game Saturday if not for the trip to Clinton Wednesday for the Hamilton contest. Hobart's Kevin Legge, a Guilderland High product, hit the first bucket of the second half to cut the lead to twelve, but it neve!\ got tloser. Union's press and ten points by Walker and Abba opened the lead to 18, 49-31, then six straight points by Doyle, Walker, and Gugliotta gave Union an insurmountable 55-31 lead, wtth II :42 left. The lead hovered in the twenties the rest of the game. Tom Combs, who replaced Doyle with eighl minutes left put on quite a show down the stretch scoring all ten of his points. His bucket at 4:24 gave Union its largest lead ef the night, n-46, and another Combs' bomb at I :05 again stretched the lead to 25. At 3:09 however, Combs made the play of the game when, on a feed from reserve guard Kevin Crawford, he made a spectacular reverse lay-up after an incredible fake which left two Hobart players sprawled on the floor and stood the cheering section to its feet, for their loudest cheers of the night. Stevens came into Schenectady after a 92-41 pasting fromR.P.I. in Troy the night before. Stevens opened a 19~11· lead with eleven· minutes left in the half thanks to a hot 9 for 16 from the field. But Union, playing calm ball, outscored Stevens 15-3 for the remainder of the half and took a 26-22 lead into the locker room. The Dutchmen kept the spurt going over the first ten minutes of the second h~lf, outscoring Steven~ 23-3, and led 49-25: The largest lead of the afternoon contest came. with 8:42 left when Joh·n Denio hit a jumper for a 25 point gap, 52-27. · Union's big guns for the year, Doyle and Bacher, saw less action th~n any time this season as Walters played sophomore Charlie Gugliotta and junior Tom Combs much of the time. Both answered the call with excellent play and gained much needed playing time and maturity for next year. John Oenio,.who is also gaining game savy for next season, narrowly missed being named to the EC AC rookie squad of the week after his 45 points in three games against Wesleyan, Trinity, and Williams. Union Doyle 1 7 9 Abba 5 4 14 Bacher 4 I 9 Walker 6 & 18 Denio 4 0 8 Combs 4 2 JO Gugliotta 4 1 9 Totals 28 21 77 Hobart Cornwell 6 0 12 McLaurin I 0 2 Blumenthal 2 0 4 Silveri 6 0 12 Felix 2 0 4 MacDowell I 1 3 Legge 3 0 6 Devaney 5 1 11 Millbrund I 0 2 Totals 27 .l- 56 • • • • Stevens G F T Cress 5 1 11 ,Casameto I 0 2 Mcinerney 4 I 9 Meredith 2 2 6 Nathansin 1 I 3 (')'Keefe 2 2 6 Rubino I 0 2 Ma~sano 1 0 2 .l'.l!mls 16 7 39 Union G F T Walker 5 3 1) Abba 5 2 12 Gugliotta 4 4 12 Combs 5 2 12 Denio 3 0 6 Doyle 1 0 2 Underhill I 0 2 Kelly I 0 2 Totals 26 II 63 Frosh Avenge Hartwick Loss by BILLY De BEAR The freshman basketball team reoounded from its surprising loss to Hartwick with an important victory over a good Albany State five. Not only did the Gaw~t ~et back on the winning side of t 1 1e decision, but they defeated a ball club that had won five ofits last six encounters. In posting the 58-53 win, the Garnet looked outstanding in the opening half. but had to withstand a furious rally oil the part of State during the late stages of the contest to clinch the victory. The first twenty minutes belonged entirely to the home team, as they were obviously prepared, both mentally and physically, to reverse the lapses that had plagued them in the Hartwick loss. Going with the usual starting lineup of Steve Kelly and Bill Henson in the backcourt, and John Raymond, Ray Marcinowski, and Bill Coppula in the front court, the Garnet were able to open up ali impressive 37~20 bulge by halftime. During the early stages of the second half, Union easily maintained the lead, which reached its highest level at 49-31 with thirteen .minutes remaining. However, at this point, Albany began to click on its shots, as they tallied 12 of,the next 14 points to close within eight of the Garnet. It wa-; apparent that the starters were beginning to show signs of tiring slightly. This was understandable considering the fact that the only non-starter to see action was Mark Gillum, who played briefly at the forward slot. When Marcinowski scored with 7:05 left. Union's lead returned to the ten point plateau, but this time the Great Danes ran off six unanswered points and closed to within !our. at 53-49. But again it was Marcinowski, the only Union player that maintained his shooting touch down the stretch,- who halted this Alban/ rally with another short jumper at 3:30. However, when Henson stepped to Tri·c:aptain Oeoj}' Walker led Union with 18 points against Hobart and 13 points against Stevens. Continued on Page 1. photo by Bill Erichson .. , BOULEY ARD BOWL 1315 Erie Blvd. 40 AMF BOWLIN-G LANES 374-4171 Bowl for Health ' j Grapplers Sweep Amherst, ·WPI Walker Leads by FRANCESCO INGRO The Union CoHege wrestling team secured itself a winning season by burying Amherst 35-1 J, and disintegrating W.P.I. 42-2. With two tough matches remaining . to complete the dual meets season, the grappler's record nuw stands at 8-5-1. Saturday's performance as hosts to Amherst was \the most outstanding team effort of the season,\ commented C0ach Everling. Out of a combined total of 20dual matches, the Garnet won 15, drew 3 and allowed only 2 losses. Zullo & Freeman Lead Sophomore Mike Walker, wrestling at the 118lb. weight class scored two smashing victories. He decisioned his opponent from Worchester 18-1, and blanked the other 13-0, thus scoring.a recurd of 3l points in two matches. The ''little man\ upped his record to 3- · 3. Team Captain Mark Zullo, continued to keep up his impressive record, by decisioning his highly }outed foe from W.P.I. 12-6. He pinned his other opponent in one minute. Zullo, with an overall record of 14-·1, is currently Iea(!,ing the team with a total of 57 po'ints. The Junior from Massapequa, N.Y., has been wrestling most of his matches in the 126 lb. division, but plans on entering the coming State Meet at 117. Bruce \The\ Freeman, continued to \crush bones\ as he pinned both of his opponents, on Sattmlay. He now noidstberecord of this season's most pins. He has scored 7 of them. His overall record stands at·l1-3-2. He isalso 2 points away from reaching Zullo's tptal team points. Freeman hopes to drop-his weight to 126lb. forth¢ State meet. Freshman Scott Media, the 142 _pounder, took a 6-2 decision against Amherst and battled to a I- I draw with his foe from W.P.I. His record stands at 3-4-4, and with 2 matches remaining he will have a chance to secure a winning season. Speedy Black Eye . above. his eye. He has an overall record of 12-3-1. He has accounted for 47 team points, and 5 pins, ir:tcluding the year's ·fastest, 29 seconds. Sophomore Jeff . WMte seems to be gainin~ the:,oonfideq~e so much needed in wrestling. A~ter a disastrous streak or' 8 straight losses, he won Z matches, tied 1, and lost none, in 4 starts. Saturday he drew his opponent from Amherst 1-1, and nipped his other, 5-4. His dual meet record now stands at 2-10-1. ' Senior , Gary Gurney split his two matchel). He dropped a close 3-1 dedsion,. and pinned his foe from Atnhetst in 5:07. He has now a 5-9 r~cord. Junior Steve Schutzer W<W .. :his second match of the seasnn ~y firmly decisioning his oppont)(lt from Amherst 6-3. Against W.PJ., he faced the undefeated captain !ilf the team and was pinned in 2:+$. He wrestled both of his matches in the 177 lb. weight clas$ . Greg Lyons the ex-state Champ of Vermont, battled to a 5-5 draw against Amherst; and won -his second bout by forfeit. He upped his record to 4-9- I. · Heavyweight champ, Howard Benedict, crushed .both of his opponent!), pinning his first in J:oo and his second in 42 second~. He remains the only undefeated grappler of the team, with an overall record of 9 wins and two draws. Tomorrow afternoon at 3:00 P.M. the Union grapplers will host powerful Colgate University. lt will be t.he l!);st. hQme match of the season for the Dutchmen, and a capacit'' crowd is expected to fill Alumni Gym. Coach Everling feels that the team at this stage has the .., \momentum\ to take the two remaining matches, and that the meet against Colgate will be a very close one. Freshman & Sophomore APARTMENT FOR RENT From July on, \12 Block from Campus Call Joe - 370-0666: ·. , .. Levrs Tom \Speedy\ Everett whose 8 match winning streak was broken by an undefeated grappler from Binghamton, came right back by pinning his opponent from Amherst in 5:08, and taking a close Dave's. Mens Shop 7-5 decision over the other. He 453 State St. battled his second match with a cut (downtown Schenectady) L.~~~~-- .. ~-~---~-~-~~~~~ - I - - - - Brothers III WEEKLY SPECIALS LUNCHEON SPECIAL 1 ,4 lb. Roast Beef Sandwich w/french fries & a draught beet · $1.25 (other sandwiches available) 'l Wed: 9-.J l p.m. Reduc~d Draught pr.ices Thurs: Wine & Cheese night A Plate of Cheese & Cra.ckers & a glass of Wine $1.00 cover charge 50¢ . Sour Hour 4 .. 9 'P.M. 1 drinks 50¢ · · :Fri.&: Sat.'bil~~this week ·, _,,. '!:_~, Live Entertainment 9:30 P.M. 1679 Van Vranken 374-5679 Cheese & peanuts avai/ahle at a/1/inws .. . .:. I - - ,, .. )' :-t. -.,_ _, ~~. f ' \• .. r~- -; ·) i't l,l ft ~ ~ '? ; . ·! .,~ ') : i ., h'.l ' 'J / '.• '! \ •. • •

ns, 29 ·I:, I' · nd m an It a els .. :: i •' •r :iw. I ' ';; , r. ' ··! 1 .'~r~ I·'J •r \.iP ' l ( ·,· ~/'! t : <j .l: ·r <·~ :1 ~ ij® ~; ·'· 41\ !+ \''' l·~ {i'l ·~ ~·· ·~~:_}~ \. : \:: -~ ~ lr : {: . .~ ,, .. ( ·} ', {~ l i ~ )(;! \( ·1f; ·f l .:·[ . ,_. founded at Union College in 1877 Vol. 102, No, 31 Friday, February 16, 1973 20 cents Malloy Recommended for New Post Hainlet and Pulunius photo by Jeff Weilburg .Marowitz Hamlet ... _\ . -:; ··: .. \'-; _,..,.J....,.. Qualified Success by DANIEL J. VALENTI . The Marowitz Hamlet is a good slaughter of a great play; any resemblance to Shakespeare is purely the resuh of intent. Taking the story of the man who couldn't decide, and adapting it to fit the restless and vibrant chaos of the modern· theater, Mamwitz hits upon an ideal metaphor for expressing his disgust of modern man's condition. Much of the dialogue is taken out of context and re-assigned to different cha;racters to empha~ize that words, as a form of communication, ultimately fail to express complicated inner feelings because of their specificity. That Marowitz has decided to use, verbatim, . Shakespeare's embellished .language to eXpress such fundamental disgust is the brilliant irony of the play. One thing I think director Bob Harders correctly senses is that, indeed, the dialogue must take second place to Cc;mtinued on Page 3 · Plans Announced to Find ·Successor .by GEOR~GE BAIN Acting Provost Willard F. Enteman has announced th~t the Administration will recommend to the Board of Trustees that Dean of Students Edward J. Malloy he named to fill a newly-created administrative position, Director of Career Counselling and Placement. Anticipating the Board's approval of the recommendation, Errteman also announced the fo-rmulation of a Search Committee to choose a new Dean of Students. The creation of the position of Director of Career Counselling and Placement seeks to expand the Placement Office to meet the complex demands of Union seniors in the face of the restrictions of the tight· jab market .. Consultation between department chairmen and the Dean afthe Faculty had resulted in the preposal of the new position. Having accepted this proposal, Acting Provost Enteman determined that the Director of Career Counselling and Placement should come from within the present Union community, have a9ministrative experience, and be mature in dealing with such people as corporate executives and law school deans. Enteman stated that Malloy \became the obvious candidate,'' that he offered the position toM alloy, and that, after much deliberation, Malloy accepted the offer pending Trustee approval. Concluded Enteman, \we have the right man for the job.\ Dean Malloy is glad to \'have the opportunity to serve and work with Union students without being totally immersed\ in the Dean of Students job. He would like to have more time to devote to his family and s-tu~ies of his own aJ'ld pointed out-that he started · his administrative career as a vocational guidance cmmsellor. He is \anxious to keep working with students,\ aud to help them through an expanded Placement Office. Of his pending new appointment, he concludes, \'I l-ike Union and am happy to continue here.\ · A Search Committee to locate~ a new Dean of Students will be formulated next week. As determined by the Liaison and Governance Committee in consultation with the Acting Provost, the Search Committee will consist of three underclassmen, two faculty members, and two administrators. Dr. Enteman will select the two faculty members from a list of professors recommended by the Liaison and Governance Committee, choose the two administrators, and appoint the chairman, from either the faculty or Administration members on the committee. The Liaison. and Governance Committee will choose the three student members, and insofar as possible, will choose one freshman, one sophomore, and one junior. All those students interested in serving on the committee should submit their applications io the Provost's office in the Administration Building (only the applicant's name is required) by !'ext Friday, February 23. Depending upon the number of student applicatiens~ the Liaison and Governance Committee will, without the assistance of i.ts student members, conduct an initial screening process without interviews, then interview some ten to twelve applicants, and choose from that number the three students to serve on the committee. The Acting Provost warns that only those students who \'are interested in doing a lot of work\ should apply. The search will involve reading many files and attending a number of meetings. Dr. Enteman estimates that the decision on a new Dean of Students should be made \'some time around May I.\ In a related development, the current Director of Pl-acement, Henry J. Swanker, will become Director of Institutional Research at Union, performing data- collecting and analysis for the College. Also, Howard A. Thompson, Vice-President for External Affairs, is resigning that position and will assume a new post within the External Affairs Department, developing deferred-giving. President Harold C. Martin will appoint a new Vice-President for External Affairs. The Academicians: Their Teaching and Research by SCOTT REITER Last Wednesday the continuing \Professor as a Scholar\ series had as its guests Professors He len Testroet (classics) and David Potts (history). Professor Potts began by pointing out that the decision as to who should begin was a bit difficult. If he were to let Prof. Testroet go first it might be rt>garded a~ male chauvinism. yet if he began it would seem to be male arrogance. So they decided to follow the \time-honored system\' of seniority. professor as a scholar. Although specialization usually involves consulting a limited body of primary sources, such was not the case with his major special research project, his doctoral-research. In his thesis Potts investigated the great number of denomi\national institutions of higher education founded in the pre-Civil War nineteenth century. In order to gather information about Baptist colleges. he travelled a seven thousand mile circuit for four months, visiting sites of these •'lieges east of the Mississippi. By searching out primary material, he was trying to determine how denominationally- Continued on Page 3 Prof. Potts explained that he has had three lives as a researcher. The first is research directly connected with teaching; that is, the synthesis of a lecture. This involves the same thought process of gathering different sources to be presented r-------------'\\' according to various possibilities, Reminder: as is used by a researcher dealing The Union and Wheaton with primary sources. There is also College Glee Clubs will research for an entire course, as present Arthur Honegger's was the case with his Jacksonian King David this Sunday America course. afternoon at 4:00 P.M. in As for his second life as a Memorial Chapel. Professor researcher, Prof. Potts uses this Hugh Allen Wilson will label on his past six months' work; conduct the twentieth century during this time he has been doillg work. public policy research for the State Featured in the concert are President ·Harold C. Martin Education Department. He was investigating the probleril of narrating, and soloists Ellalou doctoral education in New York Dimmock (soprano), Carol · State, including the oversupply of Randles (alto, Witch of Professors PoNs and Te~<,·IJ'oel di.w•us.\' tlu!ir l'l'\'eanh during the ·• Prcd(•s.wr lll a, Scholar series. Ph.D.'s. HEndor)( and) junior Rick Specialized research makes Ltp erbst tenor · Prof. Potts' third life. This, he said, Admission for Union photo by Nelson Wei! f .t · t th t t f students is free with an ID 1 s m o e s ereo ype o a card ..

\ Pa;:;e Z CONCORDIENS/S, Frida)·, F'c>hruar.r In, 1973 photos .by ie-iKeman Support Library Extension Another deadline 1.).r nt.~mg the fund:; necessary fc.r a partial extension of Schaffer Ubrary is approaching, and it is time f(Jr the members of the campus ':'1mmunity to emphasize the urgtncy ·of meetmg this deadline in order to begin t:'<pension of tr. I:cady overcrowded Library. J ti l'le 3(:) {the end of fiscal 1973) is the date on which the Kresge Foundation challenge grant of $250,000 will expire. If the College can raise $774,000, add it to the $926.000 already acquired and the Kresge grant, it will reach the $1 ,950,000 needed tu finance the construction of a partial addition, which would extend the basement, first floor. and mezzanine of the present Library. Plans that have been drawn up include extension of the second floor, but that work· would involve an additional $500,000. To raise $2.45 million and build the entire extension would double the total book capacity, reader seats, and staff working space of the existing facility. amply accommodated a school of I l'OO(Unio!l. 's size when the present Library opened ,in 196;1 ); but it now desperately needs expansion to meet the varied t'leeds of a school Of HOO. The extension of Schaffer- Library is Uni~n's 'te>p financial priority- more important thana nevv dormitory, new gymnasium, additions to the Field House, or anything else. Yet, as costs for the proposed addition have risen while the needed money has yet to be r,aised, the campus community - students and faculty -has remained silent on this issue. It is now time to express the importance of raising the rest of the required sum of $1.95 million byJtme 30 in order to expand Schaffer Library as soon as possible. We urge yot.l to sign the petiti0nat th.e Circulation Desk in the Library which ex presses the campus community's feeling that tile extension of Schaffer Library is our to-p priority as an academic institution and that all possible efforts should be made to raise the necessary money by June 30. The petition will be presented to the Board of Trustees in April. Schaffer Library is already much tO() overcrowded tod~y, and the plans for the extension have been drawn up. All that is needed now is the impetus to push the fund drive over the The densit~ of-loose dogs on campus is rapidly approaching critical mass. Thus, if the present disregard for the pet code continues. we can .shortly expect tempers, both admini~trathc and student. to explode. This explo:~ion will be shattering tu all of us. sin..:.: it \\ill c.:c..m~ist uL according to Dean Mallo}, a ne\\ regulation \'\ hkh \\iii Uih:onditionally ban aJJ dogs !rom the campus. An uncond 1tional han wouJd he quite a sorry state of affairs. and it seems tha(. a rnaj,ority of the campus co1rimunity would stand to loose by its ;mph.:mentatioil. It i~ ther.,:f!Jte,\a situation whk:h wu should try toavoi.d... - · The way t~> avoid the ban is simple: all j:)arties, dog o~ners and those who object to,:Joose dogs, must respect tFie rights of the other group., and compromise. A fair compromise, one in which no person's r·ights arc violated by anyone else is outlined in the present pet r.cgutation .in which qogs\ .~:tre. allowed on campqs if they arc leashed and under the control of their OWn€r. ·' · An appeal to d'bg.'o\viiers to \l:Oluntati:l¥ obey the ~I'es~~~ regulations can· be ·based on a oiscussion that shows i)ow\ . - everyone's freedom will . be .. maxirnized by obeying . tlte regula_i.ions. Firs~. ;an fi)ernbcrs of the t01nmunity are i'r~e t:fr.om the hazard; ~f being bittctt. or harrassed by dogs if .the 1 dogs are leashed. Next, the College is free from the problem of being subject to an expensive lawsuit whi·ch could result if anyone on campus is injured by a loose dog. The dog owners. are free to be with their dogs, and the dogs themselves are free from the problems of beif'.g hit by a car, or being picke~l up by the Schenectady Pound shoul<d they stray off campus. Last, we are all free (assuming that the discretion of the owners ·is somewhat greater than that of their pets} from walking from place .to place, both inside and out, on a veritable carpet of shit. The only benefit of allowing the dogs to run loose accurf;!s not to the dogs, since they are often neglected or placed 'in dangerous situations by their frecd.oii), but to the owners of the dogs, who are free f,rom their responsibility to their dogs and to the other members of the community. If the above argument does not convince dog owners that they should obey the pet regulations of their own accord, as they have not done in the past, let me conclude with a statement that hopefully will be convincing. If you do not immediately start complying with the regulations, you will screw yourselves, since the College will announce and enforce, with outside help, the unconditional ban. - J.b.w. -coNCORDIENSIS founded at Union College in 1877 We are at Union to pursue acc;demic studies above all else, and the Library is a most integral feature of the academic environment. But the present facilities in Schaffer Library are inadequate for a campus of 1900 students. The Library's capacity has heen reached in terms of shelf space, seat space. and work space: Schaffer top. - ~sb~ Editor-in-Chief ......... , ............... George Bain \i ews Editor ... ~ .......................... Tim Cain Lecture o:r.a Soviet Union The Union College International Relations Club will present as speaker, Professor Roger E. Kanet of Columbia University, on Tuesday, February 20, at 7:30p.m. in Old Chapel. The topic of his presentation will be \The Soviet lJ nion and the Middle East.\ Professor Kane! received his Ph.P. in Political Science from Princeton University in 1966. Presently, he is a Joint Senior Fellow at the Research Institute on Communist , Affairs and the Russian Institute of Columbia University. As well, he has. been an Associate Professor of Political Science and Slavic and Soviet Area Studies at the University of Kansas, now on leave. In addition, Professor Kanet was editor of The Behavioral Rev,olution and Communist Studies ( 1971) and co-editor of On the Road to Communism (1972). He has authored several articles on Soviet foreign and domestic politics, which have appeared in scll()]arly journals· and books. Currently: he is working on b<loks dealing with Soviet policy toward developing countries (1to be published in late 1973) and East European economic and political . integration, as WeH as a bibliography oh Soviet and East European foreign affairs (both of which will be published in early 1974). The ent.ire college community is invited to hear Professor Kanet speak. Managing Editors .................... Rita Morandi Dave Strom Features Editor ..... - ..................... AI Reisch Sports Editor ..................... Bruce Batchelder Photo Editors ................... , ...... Les Kernan Jeff Weilburg Business Manager ................. Michael J. Hurley National Advertising ............... ; .. Stephen Kelly Subscriptions ....................... Mike Bernstein Contributing Editors ............... Peter Bickerman Louis.S. Snitkoff Office Staff Phil /\1\:ah..:~ [),ug Carp,·ntcr (/an !.<nell Ill }l'i<; Puharich Dun Rothhlum Rohin Warin!! Bill West · a > .., rn il!~:tWSJi · ·- ( oncnrdien.~i\'.! I' piihiJ.,hc..:J \,.'\ 1.'1\ lk.: ... ,Lt\ oilld lt.d.i\ li~.IITl~ lhc.:.· \\h,• ,, _\l..',lf L''~l·pr J•:r:n~ .... '\.lrli'IJ,I(IIlll ,!lld \ll.dhll1 P~o.\!tllh ''· t!h .. t;ul,;d h,ld\ t 1 ! t ntt'J: C't·.!kJ.!L . .._,,:hL'I1t'd;uf\. \ '\ \\ .td\l'lll,l!i,;.; f,p,.'-.t'Tl!.lti\t;. 'll\t.lll.LI ldtll\llloll.tl \d\!.:rlt,tnJ.! ~'..'1\ Ltl'. ln1.·. l Pllevc l~nhlP·Ih .. 'l' RL'pt~..· ... '-'ntafi\i.~­ \,.-t,,llldl I dt ... lll<lll.il \tiiClll\n~ ...,~1\l<e-. Ill<. \\ ~- I dllt•lt,d Oil•u·. Old (i\m. (' llh'll (nlln.:!~.. Puhllr.ttum ()!.ltl~. llh.: l·\11'h \\t)lld l\\tthltt.'.tlltlil'-. ...... , StalL' '-;11<'<'1. Schr~t·rt.tdl '\ \' 1~_111-. 1~1··~'1\· I illt'l<'d 111 !he 'ocht'IIL'c 1 ... ll pno..,t nffll't..' ~, ... s(.~l • .'nnd ('!a ... , \btl \f.ttt~.·t \tth ... L'rtp1tln ~~~ .. ~en\· ..... ll\lr\.~r: ,j \l.ll ddlll'retl all\ 11 herL' \' 1 hr l nlil'd ..,l.tlc' l.lc-.1dltnl' jl11 dil ~·· • 11h1Lh 11111.,1 [1,• II(Wd ,Jlld tl<lllhk-'l'·l<'l'tl. '' 'r111 <ill '\lunda' and lhlll'd· .llllh· ( onrcmh ··111,·,· ·\\'''Old ( h.l['•.l ()lite~~ lt.'lt.-flhnne nwnh~:r I'- 17(}.(11 ~<hut tllr t,IJh .. 'l· 1'• tllll\ 111 ll\L' 1'll \f1,nd~t· 1 and lhw·,da) mght,. h1r .tll·edtinn.d ill.llh'l,. rail the· ,·cJn,, -Lil·<hl<'i .11 N.1. lo40; l.or ml nrmat1on L'Hii SttHknt \-<'II\ !Ill'' OIIIL'c' al .1-o.f> I II' On Saturday, February 24. at 10:30 P.M., after the basketball game, the Mark-Almond band will appear in concert at Memorial Chapel. Tickets go on sale Monday, February 19 at the St-udent Activities Office. For students, tickets will he $2:.50 each with a Union ID. For info, call Mrs. Marra, 370-6118. * * * * All items for Blither must be typed and double spaced !1y those of you who submit them. * * * * Cyclists: Anyone interested in organizing a 45- or 50-mile road race, to take place in May, please contact Dan M ilcy ( 346-9272) or sign up in the Student Activities Office. * * * * Political Science Upperclassmen: A memo on \Direct Pre-registration\ has oeen mailed to each of you. If you did not receive it, please pick up a copy in the PS Dept. Office, SS-216. !\'•: L:~~ \ _;'i )'\' ·•;,.~. : .-, f ~~x.: . ~ ~: 'f;o I : ~ ' ' • I 1) .·~;:. I . ! ' \i ~ . '. ·< :' ' ~ . t •i'r ! J, ~ ': ~ ' .... I . ' .,

\ Page2 CONCORDIENSIS, Fr-ida)·, F:.ehruary 16, 1973 photb\s by Le; Kernan Support Library Extension Another deadline I•Jr ra;:. ng the funds necessary fer a partial extens on of Schaffer Library is approaching, and it is time for the members of the campus '~')nununity to emphasize the urgency of meel!ng this dttadline in order to begin expension of tL lrca<iy overcrowded Library. June 30 (the end of fiscal l973}is the date on which the Kresge Foundation challenge grant of $250,000 will expire. H the · College can raise $774,000, add it to the $926.000 already acquired and the Kresge grant, it will reach the $1,950,000 needed to finqnce the construction of a partial addition. which would extend the basement, first floor. and mezzanine of the present Library. Plans that have been drawn up include extension of the ~econd floor, but that work· would involve an additional $500,000. To raise $2.45 miHion and build the entire extension would double the total book capacity, reader seats, and staff working space of the existing facility. . amply accommodated a school of llOO(Union's si:ze when the present Library o.pened .in 196.1), but it now desperately needs expansion to meet the varied needs of a school .()f +900. The extension of Schaffer· Library is Union'S top financial priority~ more important thana new dormitory, new gymnasiUJ11, additions to the Field House, or anything else. Yet, as costs for the proposed addition have risen whi·le the needed money has yet to be J:aised, the campus community - studet:lts and faculty - has remained silent on thisisst.Ie. It is now time to express the importance of raising the rest of the required sum of $1.95 milliqn by June 30 in order to expand Schaffer Library as soon as possible. We urge yotJ to sign the petition at the Circulation Desk in the Library which expresses the campus community's feeling that the extension of Schaffer Library is our top priority as an academic institution arid that all possible efforts. should be made to raise the necessary money by June 30. The petition will be presented to the Board of Trustees in ApriL Schaffer Library is already much too overcrowded rod:,ay, and the plans for the extension have been drawn up. All that is needed now is the impetus to push the funddrive over the Man's Best Friend The density of-loose dogs on campus .is rapidly appn;Hichh:Jg critical mass, Thus, if the present disrega·rd for the. pet c.ode cominues. we can shortly e xpcct tempers, both aomi:riistrati n and student, to explode. This explosion wiH be shattering to aH of H!'i, sin..:..: it \\ill consist oL a.cc~rding to Dean Mafloy, a hew regulation \Vhi(.:h \\ il.l un~onditionaHy ban ali dogs from the campus.· An unconditional han would he quite a sorry state {).f affairs. ·all·d it seems that a majority of the c<}mpus commu.nity \would sta,nd to loose by .i-ts imple1n~nta:tiou: It is ther~fQ{(1:·a sit~tation which wt: shoHid try to uv.oid.-. -:; .·· ~ .The way to avoid th~ ba·n is .simple: all p-arties, dog ,.o:?n,ers and those who objeCt to loose dogs, ffiHSt respect t;f:ie tights Of the other group, and compromise. A fail\ compromise, one l:n which no persop's ·~ights arc. violated by anyo.rte .else is outlined in the . present, pet .· r.egu!ati9n .in .. y.;h_idJ dogs ,~:re . allowed on catnpu~ J( they arc Ieash~d and under the control .of their ·O·W·ner. . . ., ;.~~·· An .appear fq dog:owtiers, to it>Iuntar!J:t ·obey the gr.~~eil~ regulati~ons cari\ be' :based o·n··.a a.iscnss1on 'tha:t shoW's .\how\ everyone's freedot:n \'{ill.. be,, max.ipl,ized bY-: obeyi:ng :the regulqi.i:ons. Firs_t,.5,af:l :members; of~ the t::omniunity are;, .fr~e ifr.o4i tJte hazttrd,: ~f l>eing bitte~~o..r- har.ras-sed by dogs · ,jf tlie 1 dogs are leashed. Next, the CoHege is f.n~e from the problem of being subject to an expensive lawmi1 which could· result if an&'pne on campus is injured by a loose dog. The dog owners. are free to be with their dogs,. and the dogs themselves are free from. the :Problems of bei:r-g hit by a car. or being picked (~p by the St::henectady Pound should they stray off campus. Last; we are all free (assuming that the discretion of the owners is ~omewhat greah:!r than . that of their pets) from~ walking from place ;to place, both inside and ()Ut, on a veritable carpet of shit. _ The only benefit of allowing the dogs to tttn loose accures not to the dogs, since they are often neglected or placed ·in dangerous situations by thei~ freedort):., but to the owners .of the dogs, who are free from their responsibility to their dogs · and to the other members of the community. · If the above argument does not convince clog owners that they should obey the pet regulations of their own accord, as they have not done in the past, let me conclude with a statement that hopefully wiU bo convincing, lf you do not immediately start complying with the regulations, you will screw yourselves, since the College will announce and enforce, with outside help; the unconditional ba11. , -~ -:- j.b.w. ·cONCORDIENSIS foun~ed at Un.on Coilege in 1877 We are at Union to pursue academic studies above all else, and the Library is a most integral feature of the academic environment. But the p·resent facilities in Schaffer Library are inadequate for a campus of 1900 students. The Library's capacity has been reached in terms of ~helf space, seat space, and work space: Schaffer top. _ - 2sb~ Editor-in-Chief ......................... George ~ain ~ews Editor ... ~ .......................... Tim Cain Lecture on Soviet Union The Union College International Relations Cluh will present as speaker, Professor Roger E. Kanet of Columbia University. on Tuesday, February 20. at 7:30p.m. in Old Chapel. The topic of his ptesentation will be \The Soviet Union and the Middle East.\ Professor Kanet received his Ph. D. in Politi~al Science from Princeton University in 1966. PresentlY.. he is a Joint Senior Fetlow at the Research Institute on Communist.- Affairs and the Russian Institute of Columbia University. As well, he has been an Associate Professor of Political Science and Slavic and Soviet Area Studies at the University of Kansas, now on leave. In addition, Professor Kanet was editor of Thi,! Behavioral Rev,olution and Communist Studies ( 1971) and co-editor of On the Road to Communism { 1972). He has authored several articles on Soviet foreign and domestic politics, which have appeared in . scholarly journals- and books. Currently:he is working on books dealing with Soviet policy toward developing countries (to be published in late 1973) and East European economic and political . integration, as well as a bibliography on Soviet and East European foreig.n affairs (both of which wiU be published in early 1974). The entire college community is invited to hear Professor Kanet speak. Managing Editors ............•....... Rita Morandi Dave Strom Features Editor .......................... AI Reisch Sports Editor ..................... Bruce Batchelder Photo Editors •......................... Les Kernan Jeff Weilburg Business Manager ................. Michael J. Hurley National Advertising •.............. : . . Stephen Kelly Subscriptions ....................... Mike Bernstein Contri butit1g Editors ............... Peter Bicker man Louis S. Snitkoff . . Office Staff !'btl Akah.:~ Dt•ug Carpc·ntl'T Gary l.O\ Ctl lllyria Puharich Dan Rothblum Robin Waring Bill Wc!it . . w foncordien\i\ h n11hh-.ht.·cJ \.'\t,.'i'\ flll''d,l\ tJ.IlJ f Ld .. i\ ~,.h·:rl\flt!.tht: ,~·Jh;,l] \.~;rl ,_'\\l'r! JHf;!1~ 1.'\,111;1ll~lll1lll ,IJfd \,H.ozlH·ll\ p~~:'ll'J.., h, lb<. •ochid~o.i~l htld\ t·\l t ;HHII ( ·,~lk.t!.l. t...dwn~._·,_tad' . '\ l \.a(·lnnal ~tth '-'J'.l'l'•lf1J.! 1l·p~ ~·,• .. :r11.tiJ\ c. ,.ri-h·•n.~! I dlll;,;tii>Il.ll \th~ll I' I fl)! Sc·1 1 ll'l' _ [uc·. ( t>lk~,· Puhl\ lWI' Rt'Ph''<·J11nlt\ ~·. '\,11-ton,d I du,·.uwilal ·\dl<:l.tl,lllf: \''I \.Icc l1.tt. \- \ t. I dllol·~;d OH~.:,·. llid (i.\111. i 111\11 ( n'lk~c· l'uhitL'<IIItll\ OiilLc. lite· k•11'h \\,>tid l'uhltc,lllt·•lh, ~-I Stall' Strc't'l. Sdlt:l;t'l'lad\ _ \ Y l.:'.lO~ . .j.ft.•-~ 1''· l ntclc·d .111 ·the• 'it··hc'tl(d.,,ll ptl,ltlllicc• a., Sct:ond Cia\ '>Lui \.1attn'iuh,cnpt;,,n ~lit'Cill•' \ ,, \L.1r dch1ercd llll\\lhcrt• 111 tilt' t n11.:d 'lhll<''· lkadllllc i·or aile.· . \\hlth mu't he 1\ PL'd ,111d tft.iuhk-,p.ICL'd. I' - p.m. ''\ 'v1ond.11 and lhur\l' .1tthc (onrouh odl1.:r. ,d\t>h Old ( 1t.1pt'1 <ll'l•r;. telephone numhc1 j, ~70-i>lf.< hut·th,· o>l·li<'<' I' •>Ill\ 111 IN' •'II \J,,nd:n and I hur-da~ nrghb. l-or all edt·lon,d maUL'I'. c:all t·lw c'dlhll·I.U-dllt'l at .N.~. IMO; lllr mlorma.uon call Studcrit l\L'!r1 1!1c'' Oltit>t: at· VtH•.IIS On Saturday, February 24, at 10:30 P.M., after the basketball game, the Mark-Almond band will appear in concert 11t Memorial Chapel. Tickets go on sale Monday, February 19 at the Student Act,ivities Office. For students, tickets will be $2.50 each with a Union ID. For info, call Mrs. Marra, 370 ... 6118. * * * * All items fot Blither must he typed and double spaced by those of you who submit them. •l< * * * Cyclists; Anyone interested ·in organizing a 45- or SO~mile road race-, to take place in May, please contact Dan Miley (346-9272) or sign up in the Student Activities Office. * * * * Political Science Upperclassmen: A memo on ''Direct Pre-registration\ has been mailed to each of you. If you did not receive. it, please pick up a copy in the PS Dept. Office, SS-216. ,' .. , '. I ':t .. i~ ··I ·i J'.,.l ... ~~ I . ~~I~· i' <1. ' '

\l' to a Bl of ty ~a In lS re if a a e • c····~~ ·' .;·.;~. ~ \ ' ·.~·.·f r~· •!<r ... ·· ii, r · i 4~.:.· Ff ~. ::r 1 ~·r· .... ~ ' ' >' ·'. 1) .·!;:. I I . (~~- 1 :, I .. ! (., I \ r; CONCORDIENS!S, Fridar, Fehrwtn 16, 1973 Page 3 ·\The Play's the Thing\ photo by Jeff Weilburg -~ .......... ·-----·-.....-- • Potts and T estre,ot Jbe' Classical . Historians · ·. Cpntinued from ·P~ge ·J orient~d the~e schools ac,tu~lly were. ~!Ytts feels tha~ this type of research is· also connected with teaching, because articles and books which he publish~s on one subject may' be used by oth~r teachers; it is:thus associated ·W:ith his first life as a tes~arch~r . ., Pr.of. ·Potts ex'pr.e-~sed the· sentiment that he does not separate research and teaching to any great degree. Since there is little time in the school year · for . specific research, however, he admits, that his work must often be compartmentalized into summer and school year. The questio.n, \Is there aJohnny UHit&s of classics or history'!\ led into a long discussion with the audience about the search for absolute truth. Prof. Potts ' answered that the ideal historian . must transcend the times with skept,icism .in order to weather a few generations. The ideal classicist, according to Prof. Testroet, must combine technical knowledge with a literary sense. This led to a discussion of which discipline can best find truth and reality (with a capital R). The answer depended on the biases of various zealous members of the audience, both students and teachers. Whether truth can be found in literature, history, biology, or philo~ophy is obviously a moot question, or at least unanswerable in the context of one ~ession Or \The Professor a~ a Scholar.\ · Continued from Page i the action. For the most part, he avoids the main pitfall thut lies lurking in such avant-garde expressions: that of letting the freedom which is so intense become inhibiting. When OFle has the options of doing so much in theater. ;:ts is the case with Tbe Marowitz Hamlet. it is easy to go overboard, This is a pro-blem that the director of an lbsenesque drama does not face - structure defines form for him. But here, the lirpits must beset uphythedirecto:r himself. Tbere are times when li.arders kts certain elements become ov.e.rextended, such· as the scene where F'ortinbras is tryingto rou-se Hamlet into action; basically, though, I feel that the director is in cont-rol. Hamlet, as Marowitz presents him, is not an inspiring, noble figure but a weak, cowardly, anq insecure character for whom morals are a side issue, a man who will not face up to his responsibilities. His mission of revenge for his father's deatl) .is foiled by his own weak will. This is the· point of the switching of dialogue as it concerns Hamlet's more Well-known lines; he does not know his own mind. I think, right away, of the scene when Fortinbras becomes the one to say, \Thus conscience doth make cowards of us all.\ Hamlet cannot act on his own, or even with the aid ofothers. and because Marowitz is really speaking of present-day life. Hamlet becomes representative of today's brand of man as aggressive jellyfish. There is no contradiction in this term, for Hamlet is a real Prufrock with claws. He is assertive in his attempts to keep the unpleasantries out of his mind. but white-feathered when put on the spot by his conscience. Marowit? further ex tt:nds Hamlet by splitting him up . .as it were. with the figures of Polonius and 1-'ortinbras. Each becomes an alter-ego for H a.lh let, each represcnti,ng a different part of hb mind. Polonius is that part of Hamlet's character that ~·ontrols his outward attempts at avoiding duty; he instructs him on how to compose his demeanor: \Do not slice the air ... Suit the action to the word, the word to the action.\ But Polonius does not ha-ve the strengt-h to hep away Hamlet's conscience, who is represented by Fo.ttinbras. In fact, at some level, Hamlet \rea.liz:es\ this as he kills Polonius. Fortinbras acts as Hamlet's defense in the trial sequence ·(he loses the case), and later, if I may mildly put it, urges him to direct action. But Hamlet remains the fence-sitter, the man who will nut make his choices in life, the trt~e existential villain. In the end, he is. even mocked by the Ghost, as is the very condition of Man himself, brutally pawdied by fortinbras: ''What a piece of work is ~man'. How iwble in reason.\ (There is no \reason\ in the p.lay.) \How infinite in faculty.\ (Faculty, at best, is merely clever, at worst, pitiful and dangerous.) \In form and moving, how express and admirable.\ (Forms neither express nor inspire admiration, but only anguish.) \In actions, how like an angel.\ .(There are as many deaths in the play as there are in Capote's In Coid Blood.) \In apprehension, how like a god.~' (How like a god who has completely lost control of his universe.) Even Hamlet's love for Ophelia fairs to provide a resolution of his absurd dilemma. He can, at · best, \\ reak his vengeance on imaginary 'ictuns. He says it all: \My thoughts be bloody or be worth nothing.\ What are they worth? This is the 4uestiun we arc left with. Although I feel that the Marowit7 play hinges to u lesser degree on Hamlet than on Prof. Testroet sees her research as falling into the dichotomy of ··useless\ and \useful\ research. ln the first category she places the paleographical work she 15 presently doing. which she described as playing with old Latin manuscripts. She is currently trying to find out from where a twelfth century English monk got his material. He is important in the history of the st udv of Latm classics. because he ~iewed them for their literary value. He read for content and not, as did the Church, for practice in the language or for moral observations. Professor Tc<;troet enjoys this type of detective work which includes decoding strange scripts, a great deal. Attending a Trustee Meeting Although it sometimes seems to her that what she is doing is worthless, she sel's it as relevant because there is a \handful\ of people awaiting her conclusions, which will then be used for teaching. which she feels makes it more relevant. In her \useful\ category, Prof. Testtoet includes the research she does to prepare lectures and courses. She is currently researching mythology and the writings of the Greek poet Hesiod. The mythology course will deal with the stories of Oedipus and Elektra and allusions to these tales in European literature. As for Hesiod, she is trying to determine why he wrote two different versions of the same story. This .type of research, although specific. is not publishable, she explained, since after two thousand years of criticism of the classics most ofherideas have been thought of in some form before. ·Nevertheless Prof. Testroet sees this research as very important hecause it helps her teaching, her primary goal. Both Professors Potl~ and Testroet put great emphasis in the role of research upon their teaching. When asked. during the question-and-answer period. whether they would continue their ' specific research were there no demand for it. Prof. Potts said he probably would not. However Professor Testroet admitted that she enjoys indu.lging in paleography despitt' the small demand. by LOUIS BARASH Last Thursday night in Fox. House lounge, the two student representatives to the Board of Trustees held an open ·meeting to explain recent developments with which the Trustees have heen involved and to heat what some student~ ieel the Trustees should be doing. And, well. the turn6ut was a hit sparse. Actually. no more than fifteen people were present for the meeting. But lim McCabe and Peter Pach, the two representatives, did • not seem disappointed in the least. conducting the meeting without regard to the skimpy attendance. The two major topics of discussion were the tenu.re situation and the new proposals foT dormitory space for next year. The problem of dormitory space is of cour.se obvious to anyone whb has spent any time in a \five-man suite\ in either Fox or Dm idson Also contributing to the need for !ll~w dormitory arrangements will bet he prcscnc~: nf even mo:;.· girl~ on campus next year, as the last all- male entering class graduates this June. Possible solutions include tramforming more space in West College for girls and taking over space in the hasemegt of Hickock House. Also sugge;tcd is the renovation of the old County Library building. soon to he vacated by VITA. The tenure issue was rehashed, the main point being the trustees' willingness to approve the new proposal. Pach and McCahe agreed that the proposal would be passed, unJess there was significant opposition to it among the faculty. This seems unlikely, although it was mentioned that certain faculty members have voicud· some S-E Blackout: A Satire by HANS BLACK Last night, in a rare but decisive move. Union College Security Chief Edgar J. Voover in collaboration with officers of .the Schenectady Police Department arrested several suspects. believed to be involved with the Science Center power failure. The suspects arrested were Prof. J. Adaculp of the Arts Department and two students whose names will be released as soon as their parents are notified. The Security Office was first alerted last Monday -when an observant member of the Maintenance Department discovered some mysterious paint- splattered brush bristles among the debris in the transformer room of the Science Center. In the swift investigation that followed. undercover detectives hired by the College found several guano covered volumes of transformer circuitry among the pigeon dust on the third floor of N ott Memorial. The investigators, however, were not fooled; they soon discovered footprints Ieadmg frGm a broken wind9w which undoubtedly served as an entry into Nott. Furthermore, it was shown that the paint found on the bristles in the Science Center. matches with a white house paint which Continued on Page 4 objections. A not her topic dealt \\it h \\'1' the College's fund-raising ~1tuation. Pach said that he felt that the remainder of the money needed for the Library addition would be raised and that construction\\ ould be initiated soon. possibly hy June. The next fund-raising O! i1e will. hopefully, be directed to\\ ards new athletic facilities (a gym. that is). There was agreement that new facilities are sorely needed, but it is impossible to stage fund-raising activities on two fronts at the same time. Some time was also !->pent discussing the situation in the West College dining hall, with the ... student representatives pointing out that the trUstees have little to do with the meal plan. The opening of Carnegie Hall was also spoken of, leading to talk about the lounges, the mall room. and the· new studios of WRUC. The new Student Center is supposed to he open by springtime. and the feeling is that it i~ possible that some of the building may in fact be used by that time. When asked about what he had hc)ped to accomplish with this meeting, Pach said that he and McCa,he had hoped to become known to students whn were interested in the problems of the College. Despite the meager number of students who attended, Pach said he was not disappointed. He felt that he had gotten to know . some of the problems that the students believed to be important and could, therefore. better act on these ideas. He also said that the people \vho did attend now know whom they can contact to discuss something they feel requires action. For those of you who could · not attend (and there were a few), the names are Peter Pach and Tim McCabe. · Shakes pearc (because of the Polonius- H a mle t-F urti n bra~ ·~trinity\) there i~ no 4 ues tiun that the role of Hamlet i~ still the key one in the play. Paul Delfin\ interpretation is expressive of a genuine talent. His rna in asset is his flair for the tongue-in-cheek, a ~tacca·to-like way of \suiting the words to the actions.\ He plays the Marowitz Hamltjust right: instead of acting angry, he acts like a fool. He evokes a successful juxtaposition of moods, ranging from agony to derisiveness, from haughtiness to humility. He is ably supported by the rest of the Mountebanks players. Mark Walsh as the urbane, suave King- in- Tux, Victoria Darling's innocent yet devilish Ophelia, Keith Kibler's swooping, vulture- like Ghost, as well as the explosiveness of Bernard Carey's Fortin bras and Peter Tarshis' inept . Polonius, are indicative of a highly vital. and ver~atil~ group. Gene Gouss is maybe a bit too \swashbuckling\ as Laertes. and Laura Chakrin completely ov~rplays the Queen. My main objection to this 0\erall successft~l p.roduction was the poor diction. It was very difficult t~ understand many, if not most, of the lines, especially inthe first half-hour or so. As the play went on, the dialogue was less slurred, but was no.t delivered so well as it should ha v ... been. This made h very difficult, especially for those who had not read the script, to follow the \.story.\ lt also dampened what I feel was one of the script's potential strong points: the humor. For example, theword- play was missed. Two instances that occur off hand were Ophelia's .-.ong: \Young men \\l)Uid do it, if they come to it By cock thev are to hlame\ and this ex~.:hangc b-etween Hamlet and Ophelia: Hamlet: I.adv. shall I lie in vour Jar'? . - Ophelia: :--;o. mv Lord. Hamlet: i mean·. my head upon your lap. Ophelia: Ave, mv lord. The timing·. for- the most part, was excellent. There v.as a missed l'UC by Ophelia durial! the trial ~u;ne, but 11 v.a~ ~:mered up nicely b~ ~orne ad-hb laughter. Pete! i ,trshis 1~ a delight as P·•lonnts; his :-l<)ut·h, his manner of spt:el'h {his \had\ diction v.a~ one ,11 the few c\amples ot consistent good diction in the play), drooping trousers and fingering around his pockeb are consistent with the character he is presenting. !'he audience responded well to him. amL at least once, he rescued what could have been a very poor scene. that is, when the King warns Ophelia to stay away from Hamlet; it was hard to make out the words, but Polonius, who is lying stage right on the floor, with Hamlet. speaks with such amusing (unintentional) ironv: \Well spoken with good accc~t and good discretion.\ The set seemed to me not quite 11minous enough, but it was, in e'ery way, suitable; its well- ;nrentioned suggestion of a castle \\-Hs a definite plus. The lighting (~!robes included) was flawless. as was the characterization. that is, the way in which the daracters wert: hrought I o life. All in all, the play is definitely \\orth seeing. \\'hat fault~ there are do not impede too much, though the ponr diction {in places. ...urious!y enough, and not in the whole play) comes close. Those who expected a more q·aditional presentation. and who had trouble understanding what was taking place. were left with an additional \last\ 4Ucstion: To boo or not to boo. The noticeable lack of applause disturbed me. Considering how difficult The Marowitz Hamlet is to present, The M ountcbanks' production can be called (with ·the 4ualif.i.cations I have mentioned) a success. Go see it; the play's the thing.

in· tv , a ~)f . ity o.r i:n lS p:e. if ee m a es lll a ·~ r~· . ··<) ·- ·-. ' \ CONCORDIENS/S,.Fridar. Ft'hruan· 16, 1973 Page 3 ·photo. by Jeff WeHburg . . . ..... -r-~-- ................. Potts, and ·I estreat lhe: Classical.·. Historiaas · · · . Cpntii1!Jed frQm ·P~ge ·t . ; · . orieht~d· :th¢se: . sch,ools. ac.tu~H,r . The question, \Is there a Johnny were,: Potts feels that this type of Unitits of cla&sics or history?\ led research is· 'also' connected wit!l' : into a long discussion with the teaching: because'' articles. and' : audience about the. seatch fer 'hooks which ·he puhl!sh~s on oQe , :absolute truth. Prof. Potts subject rnay· be · u~sed by 6th~r ,. l!ilswe.red that the ideal historian teachers; it )s:thus' ~soci&.teg '\v,ith ~must· transcend the times with his first life as a :researcher, ·. · skepticism in order to. weather a P~;pf. Potts expr.e'ssed · . the' ·rew 'generations. The ideal sentiment that 'he does not separate classicist, according to Prof. resear.c'h and teadi.ing to,a'ny great Testroet, must combine technica'i degree, Sin~e there is little time in knowledge with a literary sense. the s.cho€ll ye,ar · for · specific This led to a discussion of which reseaTch, how.evet, he admits that discipline .Can best find truth and his· work must often be reality {with a capital R). The compartmentalized into sumrner answer depended on the biases of and school year. va'rious zealous members of the Prof. Testroet sees her research audience, both students and as falling into the. dichotomy of teachers: Whether truth can be \useLess'; and \usefu.l\ research. In found in literature, history, the first category she places the biology, or philo~ophyis obviously paleographical work she · is a moot question, or at least presently doing, which she unanswerable irt the contex,.t of one described a~ playing with old Latin session of \The Professor a~ a manuscripts. She is currently SehHlar.\ trying to find out from where a - . - - · ''The Play's the Thing'' • Continued from Page 1 'the action. For the most part, he avoids the main pitfall that lies lurking in such avant-.garde expressions: that of letting the freedom which is so intense become inhibiting. When one has the options of doing so much in theater, as is the case with The M~tr.owitz Hamlet, it is easy to go overboard: This is a problem that the director of an. Ihsenesque drama does not face - sttQcture defines form for him. But here, the H?t'its must he s~tupbyfhedirecto'r himself. There are times when Harders lets certain elements become ·overektended, such as the scene whet~ Fortin~ras is trying to rou-se Hamlet . into action; basically, though, I feel that the director is in control. · Hamlet, as Ma:rowitz presents him, is !lOt an insp,iring,. noble . figure but a weak. cowardly, ~nd insecure· character for whom morals are a side issue, a man who wit! not · face trp te his respon5;ibilities. ij is m.ission of revenge for his father's dea,tl} is foiled by his own weak wilL This is the' point of the. ·switching of dialogue as it concerns H~tl'l'let's tnoreweJI..:known lines; he does not know his own rni'nd. I think, right away,. ofthe sceilewhen Fortinhras becomes the one to say, \Thus conscience doth make co·wards of us all.\ Hamlet cannot act on his own, orevenwith the aid of others, and because Marowitz is really speaking of present-day life. Hamlet becomes representative of teda:Y's bran(! of man as aggressive jellyfish. There is no contradiction in this term, for Ham let is a real Prufrock with Claws.. He is assertive in his attempts to keep the unpleasimtries out of his mind. but white-feathered when put on the spot by his conscience. ' Marowit7 further extends Hamlet by splitting hjm up, as it were, with the figures of Polonius and FortinbFas. Each becomes an <!ltei·-ego for Hamlet, each repres~nting a different part of his mind. Polonius is that part of Hamlet's character that controls his outward attempts at avoiding duty; he instructs him on how to eompose his demeanor: \Do· not slice th~;: air .. , Suit the actio.h to the word, the word to the action.\ But Polonius does not have · the strength to keep aw&y Hamlet's conscience, who is represented by Fortin.bras. In fact, at some level, Hamlet '\realizes\ this as he kills Polonh1s. Fortinbras acts as Hamlet'~ defen~e . iiJ. t:he trial sequence (he loses tne case), and later, if I may mildly put it, u~;ges him to direct action. But Hllmlet remains the fence-sitter, the man w.ho will not make tris choices in · life, t\le true existential villain. In the end, he is. even moc-ked by .the Ghost, as Is the very condition ofMan himsdf, bt:Utally.p~~;odied . by Fortinbras: ~'What a piece of ·work is ~man·. How noble. in reason.\ (Th~re is no \reason\ in .the play.) \How infinite in faculty ... · (faculty, at best, is merely clever, at worst, pitiful and dangerous.) . \In form and moving, how express and admirable.\ (Forms neither express nor inspire admiration, but only (ln;guish.) \In actions, how like an angeL;. (There. are as many deaths. in the play as there are in Capote's In Cold ,Blood.) \ln apprehension, how like 11: god.~' (How like a _god who has completely lost control of his universe,) Even .Hamlet's love, for Ophelia failS to pro.• ide a resolution of his absurd dilemma. He can, at · best, v. reak ·hi~ vengeance on imaginarr victims. He says it all; \My thoughts be bloody or be worth nothing.\ What are they Worth? This is the question we ~re left with. Although I feel that the Marowit? play hinges 10 a lesser degree on Hamlet than on Shakespeare (becaus~; of the P.o1oniu s- H a rnle t -Fu rt i nb r'a ~ \trinity\), there is no 4 ueslion that the role of Hamlet i:. still the key one in the play. Pa\ll Delfin's interpretation is expressive of a genuine talent. His main a~set is his flair for the tongue-in-cheek, a staccato,;Jike way of \suiting the words to the actions.\ He plays the Marowitz Hamlt just right: instead. of acting angry, he acts like a fool He evokes a successful juxtaposition of !TIOods. ranging . from agony to derisiveness. from haughtiness to humility. He is.ably supported by · the rest of 'fhe Mountebanks players. Mark Walsh as ~he urbane, suave King- . in- Tux. Victoria Darling's innocen.t yet devilish Ophelia, Keith Kibler's swooping, vulture- like Ghost, as wdl as the explosiveness of Bernard Carey's Fortinbrasand PeterTarshis' inept . Polonius, ar;e indicative of a highly vital· and versatil~ grou.p. Gene G(mss · is · rrtaybe a bit too \swashbucklint' as Laertes, and Laura Chakrin completely overplays the Queen. i'vty main objel;:tion to this merall successful .production was the poor diction. It was . very difficult to understand many, ifnot most, of the lines, especially in the fir~t half-hour or so. As the play went on, the dialogue was less slurred, but was no.t delivered so well as it should ha v ... bc;!en. This made h very difficult, especially for those who had not read the script, to . follow the \story.\· It also dampened what I feel was one of the script\ potential stronll poif!tS: lhe humor. For example, the word- play was missed. Two instances that occu:r off hand were Ophelia's >:ong: \Young men would do it, if they come to it· By cock they are to, hlame\ and this e.x:~:hange between Hamlet and Ophelia; Hamlet: Lady, shall I lie in your lap'? twelfth century English monk got his material. He is important in th~ history of the study of L.~tin· classics, because he viewed them for their literary value, He read for content a:nd not, as did the Church, for practice in the language or for moral observations. Professor Testroet enjoys this type of detcctiye work which includes decoding strange scripts, a great Ophelia: No. my Lord . . . M' Hamlet: i mean, my head upon A. tt·e.'nding a Trustee.· .· .. eeting yo~rp~a~ia:Aye,myl.ord. The timing, for the most part, deal. · Although it sometimes seems ·to her that what she is doing is worthless, she sees it as relevant because there is a \h~wdf\11\ of people awaiting her conclusions, which win then be used for tea.ching, which she feels makes it more relevant. In her \useful\ category, Prof. T estroet includes the research she does to prepare lectures and courses. She is C\lrrently researching mythology and the writings of th.e Greek poet Hesiod. The mythology course will deal with the stories of Oedipus and Elektra and allusions to these tales in European litei:atttre. As for Hesiod, she is trying to determine why he wrote two different versions of the same story. This type of research, although spedfic, is not publishable, she e~plairied, since after two thousand years of criticism of the classics most of her ideas have been fhought of in some form before. ·Nevertheless Prof. Testroet sees this research as very important hecause it helps her teaching, her pFimary goal. Both Professors Pot!~ and Testroet put great emphasis in t·he role of research upon their teaching. When asked, during fhe question-ftnd-answer period,. whether they would continue thei.r specific research were there no demand for it, Prof. Potts said he probably would not. However Professot· Testroet admitted that she enjoys· i n~uJging in paleography despite tlw small demand. by LOUIS BARASH Last Thursday night in Fox House lounge, the two student representatives to the Board of Trustees held an open ·meeting to explain recent developments with which the Trustees have been involved and to hear what some students feel the Trustees spould be doing. And, well. the tUn1out was a bit sparse. Actually. no more than fifteen people were present for the meeting. But Tim McCabe and Peter Pach, the two representatives, did • not seem disappointed in the least, conducting ti)e meeting without regard to the skimpy attendance. The two major topics of discussion were the tenure situation and the new proposals for dormitory space for next year. The · problem of dormitory space is of course obvious to anyone who has spent any time in a \five-man suite\ in either Fox or Davidson. Also cont~ihuting to the need for new dormitory arrangements will be the presence of even mm ,_. girls on campus nex.t year, as the last all- male entering class graduates this June. Possible solutions include transforming more space in West College for girls and taking over space in the basement of Hickock House. Also sugge~ted is the renovation of the old County Library building, soon to be vacated by VITA. The tenure issue was rehashed, the main point beit1g the trustees' wtuingness to approve the new proposal. Pach and McCabe agreed that the proposal would be passed, unless there was significant opposition to it among the faculty. This seems unlikely, althoug-h it was mentioned that certain faculty members have voiced some S -E Blackout: A Satire by HANS BLACK Last night, in a rare but decisive move, Union College Seeurity Chief Edgar J. V 0over in co-llaboration with officers. of the Schenectady Police Department arrested several suspects believed to be involved with the Science Center power failure. The suspects arrested were Pro( J. Adaculp of the Arts Dep~ttment and two students whose names will be released as soon as their parents are notified. The Security Office was first alerted last Monday ·when an observant m,etnber o.f the Maintenance Department discovered some mysterious paint- splattered brush bristles among the debris in the transformer room of the Science Center. ln the swift illvestigation that followed, undercover detectives hired by the College found several guano cavered volumes of transformer circuitry among the pigeon dust on the third floor of Nott Memorial The investigators, however, were not fooled; t'hey soon discovered footprints Ieadtng frem a broken window which undoubtedly served as an . entry into Nott. Furthermore, it was shown that the paint fouiid on the bl'istles in the Sciei1ce Center. matches with a white house . paint which Continued dn Page 4 objections. was excellent. There was a missed Another topic dealt with v.a\ the rue by Ophelia during the trial ('nllege\s fund-raising ~Huation. ~ccne, but it v.as cmert.>d up nicely Pach said that he felt that the h~ :;orne ad-lib laughter. Pete!' remainder of th~: money Heeded for 1 mshis is a delight as P•lloniu:;; his the librarv addition would be ~!ouch, his manner of spee~:h (his raised and iha t construction v.. ould \had\ diet ion was one of the few he initiated soon, possibly by June. examples oJ consistent good The next fund-raising d1 i1c will, didion in the play), drooping hopefully, be directed towards new trousers and fingering around his athletic facilities (a gym. that is}. pockets are consistent with the There was agreement that new character he i~ presenting. The facilities are sorely needed, but it is audience responded well to him, impossible to stage fund-raising .and, at least once, he rescued what activities on two fronts at the same could have been a very poor scene. time. that is, when the King warns Some time was al~o spent Ophelia to stay away from Hamlet; discussing the situa;tion in the West it was hard to make out the words, College dining hall, with the / but Polonius, who is lying stage student representatives pointing right on the floor, with Hamlet, out that the trustees have little to speaks wit.h. such amusing do with the meal plan, (unintentional') irony: \Well The opening of Carnegie Hall spoken with good accent <1nd good was also spoken of, leading to talk discretion.\ . about the lounges, the mailroom, The set seemed to me hot quite and the ·.new studios of WRUC. (•minous ehough, but it was, in The . new Student Center is t\ ~ry way, suitable; i·ts weB- supposed to he open by springtime, ;n!entioned suggestion of a castle and the feeling is that it i~ possible l.Ht~ a definite plus. The lighting that some of the building may in (~trobes included) was flawless, as fact he used by that time. was the characteri1ation. that is, When asked about what he had the way in which the daracters hoped to accomplish with this wen.~ brought to life. All m all, the meeting, Pach said that he and play is definitely worth seeing. McCabe had hoped to become \\'hat faults there are do not known to students who were imflcde too much, though the poor interested In· the problems of the d.ictinn (in places. dirinusly C'ollege. Oespite the meager enough, and no,t in the \'w hok play}· number of students who atteuded, comes close. Those who expected a Pach said he was not disappointed. more t~aditional presentation, and He felt that he had gotten to know who had trouble understanding some of the problems that the what was taking place, were left students believed to be important with an addition(ll\last\ question: and could, therefore, better act on To boo or not to ho(). The these ideas. He also said that the noticeable lack of applause pco1ile w.ho did attend now know . disturbed me. Considering how whom they can contact to discuss difficult The Marowitz Hamlet is something they feel requires to pres.ent, The Mountebanks\ action. Forthose ofyouwhocould productiOn can be caNed (wuh-the · 11ot attend (and there were a few), qualifications I have mentioned) a the names are Peter Pach and Tim success. Go $ee it; .the play's the McCabe. . · · thing.

\ Page4 Letters To the Editor: As an R.A. and therefore a member (by definition) of\a small community of people who are supposedly organized,\ I feel qualified, if not obligated, to respond to Miss Dewey's article of the February 2 issue of Conc:ordy. Had Miss Dewey spoken to me, she would not have received an ambiguous comment about the Housing Office or Mrs. Beam's competency. There 'are serious problems within the Housing Program at Union College. These problems are a direct result of administrative. policy, not the competency of Mrs. Beam. Apparently, not every Marty, Sue, or Howie knew that the decision on the Hickok scandal was tedious<ly considered in the Administration Building with minimal input from the Housing Office. As for the approximate sixty freshmen who found themselves subjected to a now relieved fifth-man status, whom have they to blame? Was it really Mrs. Beam with her 530 rooms on campus and no budget for off-campus housing, or might it have been either a miscalculation. in the Admissions Office or an administrative attempt to relieve an economic deficit? I don't intend to attempt a listing of what the Housing Office can not do, but what Mrs. Beam and her \team\ can do and what they have done. Miss Dewey was concerned about the communication of maintenance problems. The present policy where RAs and students contact maintenance directly, was instituted for specific reasons. (I) The student qr R.A. can-call the problem in at any \time of the day, and does not have to expect a delay through the housing office. (2) Inaccurate reports are avoided since maintenance is talking directly to the party confronted with the problem. (3) The student receives some information as to · what will be done and when. He need no longer wait to find out if and when something will be fixed. If the problem is not taken care of, he can call back and report this. Maintenance does not want to be confronted with numerous calls about the same problem; they are more apt to repair the situation or give explanations for a delay to an irate student who is directly affected by the problem rather than to a \second\ party. The problem of resolving maintenance problems is a responsi'bility of the maintenance department, not the Housing Office. Communication of these problems is the responsibility of the RAs, since they are in closest contact with the living units. Maintenance, this year, has been much quicker to act upon a problem than in previous years. If your problem has not been taken care of in a reasonable amount of time, it is possible that your R.A. failed to call it in. This is his responsibility; he is being paid by you to perform; if he is not doing his job, only you can make the Housing Office aware of this. If an R.A. finds it necessary to talk to Mrs. Beam, they all know where her office is, and she Is willing to talk to them and any other students. Of course it is less time consuming for someone to say \She doesn't lister · .... me,\ than to actually talk · For this reason, each R.r •. nas a folder in the Housing Office. Each day, memos are placed in this file that pertain to the RNs living unit. This procedure was implemented in ·order to speed up communications between the office and the students directly. The R.A. is also a student. His time is valuable, and it should not be wasted in meetings with· Mrs. Beam When infomation can be as effectively transmitted in a memo. (f the information is not passing on to the students in the living unit, then it is the fault of the R.A., not the housing office. Again the performance ofthe R.A. is best CONCORDIENSIS, Friday, Fehniary 16, 1973 _ judged by his living unit. Their input is necessary in evaluating his performance. · · These consil:lerations may seem small, but in truth, that is about all the power Mrs. Beam wields. l tis one thing to say that she is in charge of housing, and a totally different one to say she has \full authority and jurisdiction.\ .Before any other student attempts to evaluate Mrs. Beam's performance, l strongly suggest they investigate the \bag of tools\ the administration has equipped her with. I am certain they wili find it extremely limited. Sincerely concerned, Jim Huod H.R.A. Davidson * * * * To. the Editor: Last Friday's Concordy left me with a number of i~nteresting thoughts. lt Was Prof. Rappaporfs comment (abJ,Jut the Science Center blackout) concerning his annoyance with the administration for not having kept the faculty -better informed aboutthe problem thus affording a \better use of operating facilities,.\ thatstruck.rne first. I had to laugh, though. Isn't that the administvation's way of doing things. They feel that iftbey ''know\ what Is going on, there is no need to tell anyone else. After all; what is-a little confusion anyway? There was also the story about the five people who attended the Steering Committee's open meeting. Bruce Sostek's statement that students only show up when they have a complaint is so true. But, even then, when did any student activism last more than a couple of wee'ks before \school\ got in the way. The long-term pressure needed to change a decision is hard-to come by. The administration's .. staying power'' is something which effectively blocks all but the most constant pressure. It is used by the administration as an excuse for preventing the whims of the \tr-~nsitory students\ from controJling college policy. And then, I read Gordon Bingham's contrast of Union and Hamilton. lie succeeded in reinforcing something which I didn't already comprehend; Union students have the opportunity to take part in college government- something seldom available to students elsewhere. But, it is not a reality. the constraints of school work, I propose the institution of a Student Advocate to deal with' the administration on a regular basis to protect student rights. Such an Advocate would be a full-time, paid employee of the s·tudent Government. The position would be monetarily equivalent to an assistant director of a:dmissions and would be paid out of student tax money .. Finally, I believe that the Advocate should be a recent Union Graduate. With the institution .of such a person, st)ldent desires c<:>uld rna,intaincontinuity fmm one term to the next an'd the staying power of the administration would be . countered by another permanent force .. Being paid out of student money, the allegiance of such a person, could n0t· bei:,q;u,est1oned·. And, as a fuJI-paid emplt:>yee t'he Advbcate would be able to represent students in arty serious misunderstanding involving the administration. Joseph W. Schw.artz '73 * * * * . To all Union students with opinions and/ or aU opinionated Union students: Your student representatives on the Cotnp Ed Board want your opinions of your Comp Ed courses. Have the Comp Ed's you've experienced been tremendous, exciting, and challenging OR boring, wasteful, and \gutty\ 0 R just plain mediocre, average, and OK? We and the faculty members of the board very much want to know. Your input could mean the continuation or cessation of a course, If there is no response, it could mean that some naive or powerless Union student in the future could be stuck in that despicable Comp Ed 0 R that same student could miss out on one of union's most excellent courses. Final decisions on next year's courses are being made in the next few weeks. Also, we are open to any and all suggestions for any additional Colllp Ed courses. We'd love to speak to any of you or receive written comments in the boxes we've put in the library and in Dean Wylen's office. The paper accused t'he <:;oUege administration, o·f bdn,g untrustworthy; which is similar to a more weiJ•known cry -against a credibility gap. The Acting Provost cal:ls the paper's statement a \character assassination ..... ·· read' '· the statement as a final shock effort to gain some sort of communication, not . as an invitation to hostility, The Acting Provost :then points out· .that the administration knew Dean Beam has her hands more than fulL The q1,1estion is, Who came out from the administration and explained that, as a cornmwnit)' the College was .going to be faced with problems due to budget ,considerations, and students as respected members of t'hat .community could help the situation by at least understanding the problems'? · It makes little sense to me t-hat the Acting ProV-ost spent most of his time defending the .administtators. They, after all, are a self-contained group in the r oli t kal sense. . Th c administration is respOrtsible for hiring those who administer, Students are here only four years and their chief role is not the evaluation of the various administrators. The only time students eoncern themselves with t'he administration is when all is not well from the student viewpoint. If indeed all is well, or as well as can be .expected, all limitations considered, then why are there complaints? Because no one bothered to explain the community's health to the students. lt would seem this is a far more constructive course than the tearing counter-attacks on an editorial. This is not to say that the newspaper is blameless. The retraction printed alongside the Acting Provost's letter is an admission of guilt. The editor is giving in to the weight of the Actrng Provost's criticism. The editor apparently had not been saying the things for which I gave him credit. I wonder if the sudden pressure applied by the administration caused this editorial collapse. Does the editor, who one . Week sees administrative failings, change his . thoughts because of ~ letter that says the administration won't tolerate the conclu~:~ions'! I doubt it. I hope the newspaper has not been castrated. The sent_iments expressed. in the - .. original e~!itorial were based on .~enUine stq9ent . feelings and should not be regarded lightly as simple~rninded attacks, i ho.pc · the paper cart remain a college paper; a forum for campus concerns,· not a· testing ground for administrative o.r student strength. A rgum:ents for communication, not for minding your own business. Peter B. Pach '73 * * * * Continued from Page 5 Union wound up the ni.eet in u. flash of glory as our 400 yard freestyle relay, consisting of Alex Bodenstab, Tom Hough, Bruce Eggleston, and Fog Shulma;n tore through to a fin;t place with a 3:41.7! The final score was 66A7, which was a super win, especially bedause N'Orwich had neglected to send us the results of their last three meets. Therefore, we were unaware of their incredible irnprovetnent. Nevertheless, 0 ur. naivete did not prevent us from our final victory ... _ Reginald Wilson, a bla~k clinical psyc,hologist whose specialty is human development in the urban community, will lecture on Monday, Feb. 19. Wilson, who is President of Wayne County Community College in Detroit, will speak at 8 p.m. in the auditorium of the Social Sciences building. The talk is open free to the public. Wilson earned both his bachelor's degree and doctQratc from Wayne State University. He is a former Detroit public schools psychologist and director of the Center for Black Studies at the University of Detroit. • We'll be anxiously awaiting to hear from you all ... Chad Luxenberg, 404 S., 346-9895 Nancy Kessler, 216 N.; 370-4771 Dave Williams, Fiji, 372-0172 Debbie Glasser, 356 Fox,346-9692 S-E Blackout * * * * To the Editor: When dealing with the administration one must be very careful not to step on any toes too hard. Anyone involved in criticism of the administration is obviously a party to half-truths and a lack of information. Faced with the problem of a hostile press the administrator is forced to one solution. In short; if no one else will beat my drum then I will beat it for myself. Ideally of course it would be preferable to let others (perhaps those administered) s~ow their approval of what has or has not been· happening under the administration. What does an administrator do if his best avenue of public expression is blocked or is in the hands of persons against his cause? He attacks the press for gross incompetence. A person speaking from high office cannot be ignored by the press. The press becomes more sensitive to criticism and finds itself backing down ... but this is not a letter about Nixon. Continued f,~otn Page 3 Mountebanks o'ften uses. Warrants were finally issued when one student, involved in the latest Mountebanks production The Incredible Life of Eliphah;t N ott, reported that Prof. Adaculp and two other students had been frequently seen spending late hours \working on important electrical systems.\ Indeed the entire blackout seems premeditated. Although it is as yet unknown how the tninsformerwas short-circuited, the choice of this critical component was damaging. It appears that the transformer was installed in the early ~hases of construction of the Center, and that subsequent removal is impossible. This obvious security measure does, however, have the drawback that large replacement components for the electrical system must be assembled in the basement of the center. Despite the embarrassment to the College over the entir-e matter, administration officials were obviously relieved that a solution to the baffling problem had been found. After the arrests, Chief Voover commented, \It became increasingly apparent to our department that the blackout at the $7.2 million Science Center (completed just two years ago) could in no way have been accidental.\ Chief Voover further explained that he had been suspicious of foul-play from the onset of the disaster when it appeared that the expensive ultra- modern circuit breakers and fuses in the center had failed. Mr. Milo, in charge of College maintenance and grounds, agr.eed with the chief: \Our electrical architects had ' assured us fro Ill the very beginning that this sort of spontaneous failure was entirely impossible with existing equipment.\ The students (and the faculty) of 'Union just are not a part of the decision-making apparatus. This is evidenced by many recent administrative decisions that have been made under either the president's economic a:uthority or simply as a usurpation of legitimate authority. I do not deny the fact that the president has authority in budgetary matters, but I do resent the fact that a decision such as tenure limitations or the limitations placed on the teaching of new courses is decided on in private and then announced as \policy.\ While such decisions do in fact lie in the president's hands, the college government does provide for more than administrative inputs in these decisions. And, there is no reason to believe that these inputs, while not in line with administrative thinking, cannot lead to a much more equitable decision. After two years of conflict over the tenure question, the college and President Martin seem bent on following a \contrat policy,\ first proposed outside of the administration two years ago. But,may I point out that this decision was ·also decided outside of tlt'e esfa,blished college government org:anization. In another context, Dean Malloy has just announced that he will personally fine artyone who throws snowballs at college buildings. But, I seern to remember that we have a Discipline Committee for such instances. Again, it is withinthe,rights ofthe dean · to prosecute snowball . throwers, but it is the Discip)ine Committee's job to punish them. In an editorial on February 2 CoJJcordiensis made statements about the . administration that Were serious in import. The Acting Provost reacted in a very sensitive (defensive.) manner to the newspaper's editorial stance. Maurice B. Graubart & S.ons The Jay Street Jeweler FOR HONEST SERVICE AND GOOD JEWELRY But, since it· is so hard to change administrative policy because of ·tevrs Dave's Men~ Sbop 453 State St. (dow~town .~cheneetady) \For Three Generations\ 166 JAY STREET, DOWNTOWN 374-5404 '·''· ' '-i -. ' .. )· -:.,;: '• \ '~ f«>~ ~· '.• • _.J;

change ~ letter istration I wspaper d. The in the on and ghtly as i ho.pc college campus ground !itudent s for '73 in U, yard Alex Bruce with 66A7, pecially last were redible our s from' black whose will of at 8 of the . The IC. his l-Ie of the at the to were been Chief our the ago) been been the it ultra- fuses Milo, nance chief: had' neous _:.,: \ ·'! ~t · .. . ' .. , ~·· '·· I Friday, Fehruary 16, 1973 PageS Garnet E'mbarrassed By Hamilton, 75-70 Frosh Roll Past HamiJto;n, 82-64 by MARK MlNDKL In the biggest upset on Union's basketball season, previously 3-10 Hamilton, behind the play ef 6''5'' junior co-captain Ernie Found, crushed U nion;s hopes of an E,C.A.A. post-season tournament bid, with a 75-70 death-blow. Playing without the services of injured Tom Ba~her, Union could not pull a way from the young and· hustling Continentals, and scored only six points during the final twelve minutes of play to bloW its Qiggest lead of the night, 64-56. The first ten minutes of the contest was a prelude to the excitement which was to follow. After Union jumped tO an early 5..0· · lead Hamilton fought back and took .its first lead ofthe night, 12- 11, on a Mark Badger 25 footer at 14:20. The lead see-sawed until a Chuck Abba jumper at 10:40 gave Union a 21-19 lead. The Garnet held the lead until one minute remained in the half and built up as much' as a seven point lead, 37-30, behind the defense and shooting of John Denio. With 3:20.1eft in the half, Tom Combs, in for Charlie Gugliotta,- hit a jumper to give union a 39--32 lead, but Hamiltan ·came on strong, fired by the spirit of a crowd sensing · an upset, and outscored Union 12-2 over the final three minutes of the first half. With the score 44-41 Hamilton, Tom Combs went to the line and sank the first shot of~rf apparent one, and ohe; 'but 'the confused referees who must have read the ping pong paddles wrong, decided Combs should not have been allowed a foul .shot because the Continentals were . not in the penalty situation. The point was erased and the score stq~d at 44-41 at the half. Running and gunning on the momentum it had established .at the end of the first half, the Continentals hit three bu,ckets to Union's one for a quick 50-43 lead after a minute and twenty. Combs Finds Spot For the next six minutes Combs threatened to blow Hamilton right out ·of its own gym. Finding the range frorn his 'spot,' 19 feet from the hoop, Combs tossed in six bombs, one per minute; to turn the tables on Hamilton and open a 62- 56 lead with 12:40 left. Mike Doyle hit from underneath on Union's next trip down the court on a nice assist from Abba and Union opened its eight point lead after outscoring Hamilton 21 to 6. With Hamilton playing Combs tight, things began to slow down for the Dutchmen who were fated to he outscored 19~6 over the remaining twelve minutes of play. Hamilton cut the lead to 64-62 on three unanswered buckets and after Abba hit another jumper the Continentals closed to within a point on a three point play with 7:50 remaining in the game. _ Combs, who had checked out of the lineup to oe replaced by Gugliotta, came back in and hit Denio for a big hoop at 5:20 to reopen a three point Union edge, hut Hamilton hit two baskets over the next two minutes to take a 69- 68 lead with 3:20 left after Geoff Walker was.called fot travelling on his way to an apparent Union two- pointer. Union's shooting became stone cold down- the stretch, but their defense and hustle, marked by two straight Hamilton offensive fouls and complete control of jump balls kept the contest alive.- At 2: I 0 Walker hit a rainmaker to give Union its last lead of tl:te night, 70~69, and ten seconds later Geoff forced another offensive foul on Hamilton to give Union the ball and the lead. Badger Bomb But Hamilton carne tlp with a ·clutch steal just eight seconds later and at I :40 Mark Badger, the celebrated pint-sized wonder from Niskayuna High, threw in a bizarre 38 foote.r which drove Hamilton fa11s. wild, and .gave the Continentals the upper hand for good, 71.:10. Combs missed a jumper on Union's attempt to answer and the ball went off Denio out ofbounds giving Hamilton the one point lead and the balL Hamilton called timeout and decided to freeze the ball but Dertio came up with a clutch steaJafterthe inboundspass. Five seconds later, however, Walker was :called for turning the ball over at the top of the key, a costly mistake for the Garnet. Hamilton once again began to freeze but Denio fouled Jerry Garcia at 0:51 in an attempt to get the ball back. It succeeded as Garcia missed the foul attempt at Gugliotta, in for Combs for the foul shot, graobed the rebound, Combs came back in for Charlie after a timeout with 40 seconds remaining. Union worked for a good shot and with 30 second~ left Abba missed a key jumper. Combs, however, stole the ball back but his forced shot also missed and\hi going for the rebound, Tom fouled Fallon. At 0:20 Fallon put the Continentals up by three with two clutch free throws. Combs reentered for .Gugliotta, who was in for rebou-nding again, but Hamilton threw a man to man full court press at Union, and Tom was called for an·•offensive foul, his fifth, with nine•seconds to go. Ernie Found iced the contest by sinking both ends of the one and one, for his 22nd and 23rd point~ of the evening, and Union was finished. 75-70. Abba, Combs and Walker led Union with 17, 16 and 16 points, respectively. Badger had 16 also for the Continentals. Union plays new foe Coast Gurad Saturday away. Union G F T Doyl\ 2 3 7 Abbll 8 117 Gugliotta 1 0 2 Denio 6 0 12 Walker 8 0 16 Combs 8 0 16 Totals 33 470 Hamilton G F T Badger 8 0 16 Found 9 5 23 Fallon 4 4 12 Garcia s 2 12 Wright 1 0 2 5 0 10 GUY Totals 32 11 57 Union Frosh G F T Glazer 0 4 4 Coppula 2 0 .4 H,enson 3 2 B Kelly 1 4 8 Raymond 14 4 32 M' cinowskl 3 1 7 Breton 1 0 2 Viniar 0 2 2 Molkowlch 3 0 6 'fotals 33 16 82 tfammon JV Gelber Johnson Neville Revnolds Vllh:mova Totals G FT 2 4 a· 6 2 14 8 0 16. 6 2 14 5 2 12 27 10 64 The intramural indoor track meet will be held next Friday, February 23, and on February 26. A schedule of events can be obtained in Coach Lawrence's office. * * * *· Tum Comhs, 1.rho scored in points in Valentine Da,r's fuss tu Hamilton. photo by Bill Erichson * * * * Attention Big Brothers and Sisters: Because of a \townie\ problem at basketbatl games the Athletic Department has instituted a $1.00 cover charge for all non Union students. You may Still attend g a me s w i t h y o u r I it t1 e brother f sister free of charg!: if you Jet the Athletic Office know a day in advance so that they may have a ticket waiting a.t the door. - ., * •* * * by BILLY De BEAR The Union fresheme-ri stretched their latest winning streak to two games Wednesday night, as they upended Hamilton, 82-64. In the process, the Garnet reversed the form exhibited in the Albany contest, as they turned in a fine second half after a sluggish openirrg stanza. ' , ' , Actually, it was the hot shooting hand of Hamilton that kept the game close during its early stages. The home team had entered the contest with a 4-7 record, but utilized an early fast break offensive style, and what Coach Scanlon estimated to ·be 60% shooting accuracy to ·stay in contenti0n throughout the first twenty minutes. This run-and- gun sttategy, which produced many long and nmmally low percentage shots, held Union's lead to only two points, as the half ended with the score40-38. However, the second half was quite a different story, as the Garnet returned to the court prepared to solidify their lead_ Dave Malkowich was inserted into the starting lineup and he sparked the team with determined defense and several quick two-pointers. Union steadily built on its scant halftime lead, as a safe twelve to fourte.en point ·margin was established after eight minutes. During much of the second half the frosh operated aut of their version of a four corners offense · and> this produced numerous layups off of generally Howie Still Champ But Team Isn't by FRANCESCO ISGRO The Union College grapplers suffered a 15-25 setback Wednesday against powerhouse Colgate. The Garnet were forced to forfeit the 118 lb. weight class thus giving their opponents a 6 point lead from which they never recovered. Colgate University upped its team recora to I I -6-2, while the Dutchmen slipped. to 8- 6-1. Team captain Mark Zullo, wrestling in the 126 lb. weight class was handed his second loss of the season. Zullo took a 2-1 lead early in the second period, but a reversal from his opponent, along with a tight rid() placed the score at 3-2. A point of riding t·ime, made the final tally 4-2 in fa-vor of Colgate. Zullo's overall record slipped to 13-2, while his opponent, Steve Ernst, upped his record to 16-2-2. Bruteful Freeman Sophomore Bruce Freeman, the little fellow from the hill, provided some highlights for the hungry wrestling fans. He immediately took his opponent down, and with a half-nelson turned him on his back. His first period 5-0 lead was overcome by his opponent in the second period. Freeman found himself glancing at the ceiling twice, but was able to get out of his opponent's leg-scissors. Near the end of the bout he trailed 9-6, but with a supreme effort the was able to reverse his opponent and put him again on his back. He finally won an 11-9 decision. Freeman's recmd stands now at 12-3-2. Scott Media, the 142 pounder, wrestled a good match against a highly touted foe, who placed fourth in the Eastern Championship last year. Media took his opponent down, taking a 2-0 lead, but was eventually decisloned 7-2. Continued on Page (i · · ' Wrestler Scott .Media in action agailist Colgate in the Garnet «•rest:fing team·,~ last home match <?/'the year. The Garnet tral't:'/ to Rochestn· 'on Saturday. excellent assist passes. lt was dur-ing this time that center John Raymond tallied many of his 32 points for the night, most of Vlhich came from short range. !he entire team had a hand in Raymond's personal high game of the season, as he constantly con.v~rted rneir assists, ·and ' in particular from Bill· Henson. An improved 16 for 21 from the foul line aided the visitors, as they stretched the lead to a final 82-64 score. Also, !he defense, led by l\1alkowich and Bill Co.ppula, held Hamilton to just 26 points, as the run-and-gun offense could not ·sustain its earlier pace. Raymond's high scoring total somewhat overshadowed an excellent 18 point performan<;:.c on the part of guard Steve Kelly. 'The remaining players sacrificed points in this game as they found it to the team's advantage to set up Raymond and Kelly, who vvere usually able to convert.. The remaining 32 points were split among seven other players, led by Henson's usual eight and. six each by Malkowich and Ray Marcinowski. Garnet ·Me,rmen by SANDY TAYLOR The meet last Saturday at Norwich University started off -with a big splash as Tom Richardson, Tom Burbank, Bruce Gold'berg, and Fog Shulman took the medley relay in 4:04.2. This win incited the entire team after the neverending, lumpy busride to Norwich. :Huffer (Tom Hough) then won the tOOO yard freestyle with a 12:41.5 -- the best for him this :year! In the 200 yard freestyle, Eruce Eggleston came in second Vlith a 2:02.7. Alex Bodenstab finished second in the 50 yard freestyle, losing first place by only .l of a second. Tom Richardson, our super- freshman, whipped through the 200 yard individual medle;y placing first in 2:{5.7, followed closely by Tom Burbank, who came in second with this fastest time ever -- 2:27.3. ln the required dives, Bob Field gave us a first with 146.65 points, and Mark Foster gave us a third with 121.45 points. We pulled a second, Bruce <Joldberg with a 2:28.1 (a slow day for him), and a third. Fog Shulman, with a 2:52.7 (a bad day fpr him. too) in the 200 yard butterfly. In the 100 yard freestyle, they put two of their big guns against us. But even so, Phil Mueller came in third with a 58.5, and Eruce Alspach came in fourth Vlith his best time ever ·- I :04.4. Tom Richardson zipped into first place in the 200 yard backstroke in 2:15.8, missing the pool record by a mere .8 of a second. We brought home second, Huffer with a 5:56.6, and a third, Bruce Eggleston with a 6:01.0 in the 500 yard freestyle. In the 200 yard breastroke, we had two super guys, Alex Eodenstab took first with his all time best time -- 2:35.1 and Tom Eutbank who placed second with his best time -- 2:35.5. Bob Field broke the Union College record for the optional diving_ He won it with 210.75 points! The old U. Coli. record 'Was 202.0 points. Continoed ·on Page 4

Page 6 CONCORD!F:NS!S, Friday. Fehruary lfJ, 1973 Collegiate· Sports: Varsity Wrestling A Matter of Priorities Contin~ed from Page 5 Speed=Evereft t·Jmes and he took him down three times. by R.B.THAU have often wondered about what purpose varsity sports serve colleges and universities around the nati0n. h seems that collegiate sports can be broken down into two distinct categories that classify whatpart of collegiate life athletics play.· The first category contains the scheols that use their programs to send athletes imo professional sports and to attract attent·ion for the college. In· this class we have such schools as UCLA, USC, Notre Dame, Ohio State, Texas, Nebraska, Michigan State, and the other top football and basketball powers. It is the ~esponsibility of these unjversities to make every possible arrangement so that once they have enrolled a top high school atll;Jete his, path toe the nros will be mo.re ~ccessible; The school The tall.le am/the ef(i'<'f, Freshman & Sophomore APARTMENT FOH RENT From July on, liz Block from Campus Call Joe - 370-0666 Dave~s· Mens Shop 453 State St. (downtown Schenectady) seems obligated to take whatever steps necessary to become a winner because winners attract national attention and professional scouts. By this process, the top high school athletes are attracted to the most powerful sports. schools and thus have the best chance Gf gaining access to the ;pros. In turn, the colleges benefit by the increased national publicity and alumnus support. The second category includes schools whose first priority is to educate its Student body and prepare them for gnatluat~ work or for their career vocations. Union falls into this class where sports should be a form of entertainment that is shared· equally by all members of the.college. Schools in this group ~hould not stress winni•ng as much as the schools in the other group do because few athletes who attend col:Ieges of this sort have aspirations of playing professional ball Since colleges in this class are generally smal1 .and personal, \lnlike the gi-ant universities of the first group, thl! student body feels more a part of sports exhibitions beca;use of personal knowledge of-the players. In cases suahas this; running up·the score against a,n opponent serves no .purpose for there are no polls to compete in and no trophies to be given out at the end of the esason. Along these lines, since we have · nothing· to prove as a sports power here. at Union, why can't our athletic . department . be .· more responr:;ive to the wa.nts .of the student body .. In basket.ball games. that are out ofreach with five or ten minutes remaining is it so hard to empty the bench and give both the subs and the crowd some fun? Will winning by thirty be any more impressive er make the crowd any happier than winning by ten? The most enjoyable part of a game for me, and I believe that I speak for many in this case, is to see the last men on the tearri come in and play ball f o.r the remaining few minutes. , The crowd never .goes more berserk than when Bill Underhill cans a bucket with time running out. After seeing the response of the crowd to the emptying of the bench, I couldn't understantl why they were shuffled into the game in the waning moments rather than several minutes before when the outcome became decided.· At colleges such as Union it is obvious that funds will go towards academics and not athletics, for we are here to learn. But it still seems that too much emphasis. is put on winning and not enough on actually enjoying the athletics. HI didn't know better. I'd t)link that we had misplaced our priorities. and our players were working tirelessly and winning not for their own personal pri·de and satisfaction but for the sake of the futures of certain coaches. * * * * photos by Bill Erichson ~ountry Granola, a six piece folk-rock band, will be appearing at the Coffeehouse in'Old Chapel on Friday night at 8:30. This is a versatile group, specializing in rock, blues. folk, bluegrass, and jan. and it should be quite a show. Admission is only 50<; and coffee and donuts will be free, so come on over! JVOW PLAYING The life and Ti·mes of Judge Roy Bean Coming Soon Freshman sensation Tom 'Speedy' Evetett, grappling at 150 !h., proved to the spectators that he is the speediest cookie on this year's team. He astonished the crowd with his quick takedowr;s .. He took a solid ll-5 victory, pushing his individual record to 12-2-1. Jeff White, grappling at the 15& lb. divi~ion dropped a I 3-5 decision against ·a former Massachusetts State Champ. It was his II th loss against 2 wins and a tie. Stepping on the Union mat for the last ·time in his college wrestling career here at Union, Senior Gary Gurney took a eonvincing 12-9 decision. He uppeq his individ·ual mark to 6 wins· and 9 losses; .Oreg Lyons, the 177 pG>under, was decisioned 13-3. He S·lipped to a 4-..JO-l record. Lyons, who is just a freshman, has .great prospects for becoming a top wrestler next season. Juniot Steve Sch utzer, wrestling three class weights above his normal one, lost by a fall in l :57. Before he was pinned his opponent used him to break ~he takedowns record of Colgate University. He let him escape 3 \They do not love . Still a Champ . Heaveweight champ, Howard B'enedict, again made the crowd roar as he instantly took his man down and put him on his back. He was unable to pin. him. in the first period, but answered the fans' .request in the third period by f.lattening his oppo.nent on the mat and forcing him to look at those tu$ty steel beams. The time was 7:20. Benedl'ct remains the only undefeated grappler on tho team with a record of 10~0-2. lhe team travels to Rochester this Saturday to meet R.l.1'. Team captain' Mark Zullo is attempting to wrestle at I 18 lb., while teammate Bruce ·FFeernan . . .. . will grapple at 126 1~. Freshman Andre .Paquette will then· take the 134 spot. Should the team assume this lone1,1p on·. Saturday, they .will 'be favored t~ ta,ke otheir opponents. ' · * * * * Those Madrigals who are . · qshering for the Glee Club's. ' concert on Sunday sho'l-!ld be at the Chapel at 2:00 P.M. Sunday afternoon (the concert cregins at 4:00 P.M.). If you signed Up to usher btit can't (or vice versa) pleas.e l,et Bruce knovv immediately at 346-5142 .. · .. that do not show their love.\ William Shakespeare Choose Keepsake with complete confidence, because the famous Keepsake Guarantee assures a perfect engagement diamond of precise cut and superb color. There is no finer diamond ring. sake DIAMOND RINGS Rin~s from S 100-SJO.OOO T·M Rei!. A. H-:'Pond Co ENGA~MENT \AN; WEDDING l Send new 20 pg. booklet, \Planning Your Engagement and Wedding\ plus I full color folder and 44 pg. Bride!s Book gift offer ail for only 25¢, S-73 Name ________ ~----------------------------- Address---------~----------------~~ City __________ ~-----~Co., ___________ _ Lady Sings the Blues I I I I I I I I State Zip I : ._ _!~~~=- ::r:~~- RIN~S.:._ ~:. ~,_s::_R~~~·-N..:_ Y..:._ ~2~-: .. f' .; . . ·;' ' . ' i # r \:: I .. , . \ ; . ~~ ..... r.),}\ ._ ·. } ! •) J 11'\ . ' \ •. \1 I' ~ ·' . •·

down crowd man bac'k. m the the period on the ook at time ns the tha R.I.'T. IS 18 lb., shman take team urday, otheir ar~ . · ' be at at to I I I I I I '\· ,. ~· ' : ... ~ ·:~ .. ~i :· . ~- .; .. ~ J ·., 't ..... {.}::.: . ·. i ri't.' . ''~-. \ .t . ,. C0l\.'CORD!ENS1S Friday, ,F('nruary In, /973 · Paw: 7 A.MUSIC UNCR .. OSSWO·R.D PUZZLE Be the first on your campus to correctly fill out this nifty crossword pun:lc and submit it to Mrs. Marra in the Student Activities Office and win a super keen record album from CONCORDY! Enter now! ACROSS 9 Singer of \Pretty The Acid Queen (first Women\ name) 2 Class Clown (initials) 4 One-time · relative John Phillips of 12 Townshend's Me her 15 Alice Cooper LP 16 Peculiarity of Raspberries fi:rst album cover APEX M'USIC .K·ORNER Announces New Student Discount For UNION STUDENTS . UPON PRESENTATION OF . . COtLEGE I.D. YOU GET , : :l $7 00 . OFF ~egular List Price On All Albums & 1 Ol Discount 1 or sale price with a 10% discount CORNER BROADWAY AND STATE ST. 17 Velvet Underground 22 Crazy Horse O.D. victilJl 23 The Amazing Ji uman. leader 18 Former Burrito now on his own (init.) · . . · :. · 24 Lea Zep. LP _Q_· I 9 Ace oft he Dead 21 Sub Stewart for (abbr.) Palmer 26 Hi~ album · ··•s:wiss Movement': (fnit.) 28 Who's the drummer? FIVE ROOMS AVAILABLE FOR PARTIES AND BAN·Q.UETS Featuring Italian-American Cuisine · mother :lerro ~. leatau-ranl 1115 BARRETT STREET SCHENECTADY, N. Y. FREE PARKING Tel 1)1.6-9554 or FR7-2642 OPEN 7 DAYS A WEEK Favored By The llnion Athletic Teams! 29 \You're_ Vain\ .3 I ________ I. a \\ t o n : Ramatam · 33 Opp. of Fragile rock group 34 Genya's old group (abb'l'.) 36 Chantilly---· 37 __ of Love 3S Possible fastest lead guitar 39 ___ on Main St. 40 Wrote soundtrack to \Sounder\ (in it.) DOWN ·.I Jorge Santata's group 3 Drug of the year: 1972 4 Buddy : drummer 5 Her danc:;:e is in Peer Gynt 6 Van or Jim 7 An 8 Tull guitarist lO ·~1· Kr.ww You .. \ · J 1 Wrote \The Love's Still Gr~wing'; \ . 12 Ziggy Stardust 13 Lady Soul· !4 · \l got a thi·ng and it stings like hell\ 20 The Turners (abbr.) 22 Fillmore or Leslie 2·5 Yoko 27 Liv, James, Kate and 28 An encore call 30 'Tm a night baby\ 32 Nine: Dead pub. co. 37 Mountain drumrna (init.) HEY! PSSSTT. 1 BEATRICE! YO~RE NOT BE.ATRICE:! WHAT HAVE YOU DONE WITH H~R? WELL, ONE MIGHT SAY SHE 1 S OUT TO LUNCH RIGHT NOW ... Wh 1 LE THE KNIGHT IS ON HIS W'A'I U~ l.f.·~- ME. MENTION THAT vV! T H A LIGHT SNACK Y~UVE EATEN MY BELOVED 1 OR EVEN BY ITSELf; SCHAEFER BEER IS DELICIOUS ... TRUL-Y THE ONE BEER TO HAVE WHEN YOU'RE HAVING MORE THAN ONE. l SUGGEST YOU TRY IT. AH, '{ES. NOW, IF YOU'LL EXCUSE ME ... THERE'S NOTHING LIKE A KNIGHT WrTH BEATRICE. Schaefer Brewerie.s, NP.wYork, N.Y., 8al11rrorP, Md., Lehigh Vi:JIIE'y, Pa.

' Page8 BLITHER Spring Term Pre-Registration Notice: Pre-registration ·materials for spring term will be available at the Office of the Registrar, Room 2, Administration Building, beginning Monday, February 19th. Students arc urged to promptly secure their copy of these materials. Students who do not plan to return to Union for the spring term, except for graduating seniors, should also report and give notice of th('ir plans. Students should confer with Faculty Advisers during the four days of February 20-23. Some departments may announce special arrangements for advising. Please be alert for such announcements. Course requests are due at the Office of the Registrar not later than February 26th. * * * * Seniors: Graduation annom~cements ~- Please place your order as soon as possible with Mrs. Marra in Student Activities Office. Deadline IS March 2, 1973. Every Friday night at 7:30 there are Shabbat services in Arts 202, followed by a small Oneg Shahhat. All are welcome. * * * * The Union College Christian Fellowship will be holding two meetings the week of Feb. 19. Rev. Peter Letchford will be speaking on Monday, Feb. 19, at 9:00 in Old Chapel on \Jesus Christ as Lord and Saviour.\ Then on Wednesday, Feb. 21, at 9:00 in Hale House Lounge, Keith Greer will speak to us concerning the Christian's call to discipleship. All welcome. * * * * There -will be a party held for all those who were in Renncs, France, last fall, on Wednesday, February 21, at 9 p.m. Anyone who would like to help in the preparations memorabilia arc v.clcome please contact Robin P. Symonds (ADP) - 346-9688, or Tom Warger (South) 346- 9895. tevrs Dave's MensShop 453 State St. (downtown Schenectady) Purity I sa bella s Ia\. ?&~ ~ \S) PHARMACY .INC. ~·Accuracy ~ 527 Union St. § Schenectady N.Y. ~ Ph. 370 .. 2300 § WELCOME § ~ UNION STUDENTS t\ b><Q>~<Q>~<Q><Q>t,c'} Da~e's· Mens Shop 453 State St. (~o)llntovm. Schenectady) Catering to Parties, Banquets Clambakes, Weddings KELLY'S RESTAURANT , ~ND GRILL 501-503 Hattie Street Schenectady Tel. 016-5059 I - D-ave's Mens Shop 453 State St. (downtown Schenectady} CONCORDIENSJS, Flid~y. February 16, 1973 An introductory workshop on Zen Buddhist practice will be held at The Zen Center, Sharon Springs, N.Y., from 10 A.M. until 4:30 P.M. on Sunday, Feb. 25th. It will be conducted by Richard Clarke, the director of the center, a disciple of Roshi Philip Kapleau, In addition to discussions of self-liberatio.n through Zen, there will be demonstrations and explanations of Zen methods of body-mind training and periods of guided meditation (zazen), with opportunities for participants to ask questions throughout the day. There will be a contribution of $I I for the day. Persons wishing to participate should contact the center by telephone. S.pace is limited. Call the Zen Center (518) 284-2670. * * *• * fliere wi)l i}e a Steering Committee Meeting on February I 9, at 9:30 P.M .. in the lounge of Beta Theta Pi · Political Science: Under a new policy of last year, non-m~jors with sophcH10re standing .or higher may enroll in any upperclass Political Science course, except seminars. * * * * Culling all singers and Hvufd~ he singers: A new singing group is a bout to be formed! · Composed basically of last term's Girls' Glee Club and Mountebanks Singers, this is a lively hunch who like to sing and welcome new members. lf you are interested in singing everything from Gregorian Chants to the New Music, and in learning how to do ·it with both fun and ease, C()me join us on Monday and Welnesday afternoons, 4:30 to 5:45, m Humanities 019. P.S. No auditi{lns! We begin this Monday. 19 february. See you there! Sa.lly Sears Mack, director. Tel. 377-.:8455. * .* * \' MAMA BIANCHI'S RESTAURANT 1135 Barrett St. . Real Italian Food Cooked To Order Wa Cater To Students The Friendliest Place in Town OPEN TO 3 A.M. FRI. a11d SAT. * * * * For those .who do not know, we are now in the mrdst of the Inter-fraternity Council Winter Weekend, and two major events have been scheduled. Saturday afternoon from 2:00 to 4:30 Alexander Field will be the site. for a series of cold weather activities, .including sled racing and cross-country skiing (snow conditions permitting). Beginning at 9:00 Saturday Night and continuing until about I :00 A.M., the IFC Hall w,itJ be held at Girling Center, semi-formal and by invitation only. * * * * Tuesday night, Pehruary 20, will he a ''Maximus drink-in'' at the Rathskellar. Bottles of \Max\ will be only 30Q: and there will be door prizes. The fun starts at 8 P.M., so drop by and have good brew and a good time. * * * * There will be a PYE ~meeting Wedn~sday night, 7:00, in the basement of the infirmary. * * * * There will be a General HiUel meeting Tuesday night, 8:30, in Hale House Lounge. Committees will be ~ gotten underway and some activities will\ be planned. · All are welcome. * * * * ~llllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllliiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii,!S I MIKE'S I i ERIE BLVD. ~ = - . .. : = = i HOT DOGS ~ = = ~ HAMBURGERS § = = ~ BEST STEAK ~ - - i SANDWICHES § I 1135* E~r: ~lvd. i ·ffilllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllii!IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIF Moffett's Liquor Store 1505 Van Vrpnken Ave. Schenectady, New York 12308 -ADD TO YOUR EDUCATION- - LEARN MORE A BOUT WINES·- JuinOur W!Nt.' TASTI.VG CLUB No A:dmi.1sivn.1 ( 'harxt' - ,\'u R£•quirement.\ i. Each month we 'elect a d·oiiNent wone to h.: ·l<:.,f.c·d. I here'' a t:atd Ul'\<;FJomg the Wine in gr~ut dL·t;.ul \' ~ou '''\learn alwut It On thi' card ·there\ a pi<.:tlllc of the Ia he'.\' ~ ou c<m temetTi her the \me .tn t·hc f utur}' to 1mpre\· } OLif· d; 1 tc ·When }OU don~ OUI onornpl~ w:uit a gnod huttk <if·wmt:. : ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .. ~~ The America they'll grow up in depends on all of us. Pretty soon you'll be in the driver's ·seat. \1\(ith a res pons ibi I ity for the way things go in this country. If you're like most young people today, you'd like to do something for people. · But you're also interested in a career in business. Why not do both? In a career with a company that be.lieves investment in people is . as important.as .. investment in thi:ngs. Sure, we invesflots of money every year in American busin(i)ss. But we'remaking other kinds of investments, too. Investments in people ... with millions of dollars wedirectinto the fabric of American Hfe. This money helps rebuild cities that are falling apart. Creates jobs f.or people who need them. Improves and expands hospita Is and clinics. And gives young people a decent shot at the education they missed. You can be part of it. At Pruden~ial we offer opportunities An Equal Opportunity Eimployer. in marketing management, investments, applied computer technology, saies, accounting, actuarial, and other areas. As well as responsibility and challenge in a company that's committed to socia'l involvement. A Prudential representative will be visiting your camp.ws soon, Check with your Placement Office for the exact date and make arrangements to talk to him • Pmdent1al . ' \ ' i ' l ' ' ' i l j ' I, I I I ,. ~

Par;e 8 BLITHER Spring Term Pre-Registration Notice: Pre-registration materials for spring term will he a\ailable at the Office ot the Registrar, Room 2, Administration Building, beginning Monda}, hhruary 19th. Students arc urged to promptly secure their cop) of these materials. Studcnb v.ho do not plan to return to l nion for the spring term. e .'\cept I m graduating ~eniors. should abo report and gi\ c notice t)f tht·ir plam. Studenb should confer \\ ith }·acttlt~ /\d\ iser' dunng the !uur day' of h:hruar~ 20-2~. SotllL' departmt:nb ma~ antHlunu· 'P e cia l a r r a n gem en t ' I or alh 1'mg. Plt:a'e he alert lor 'uch an nou nct:ment'. Cllllr'~: r~:que~h :.ne due at thL' Ottrce o! thL' Regi,trar nut later than }·ehruan 2oth. * * * * Seniors: <.iraduatiun announcements l'lea~e plan~ ~our order a' soon a' ro,,i hk \\ith :'vlrs. Marra m Student Acti\itie' Oltiee. Ikadlrnl..' h \larch 2. l97J * * * * her~ I-rida~ night at 7:30 then: are Shahhat '~:nice' 111 Arb 202. lolkmed h~ a ,mall Onq.: Shahhat. All are \\elcome. * * * * I he l' nion College Christian f-elhm,hip \\ill he lwldrng t\\o meeting' the \\eel-.: o1 !·eh. llJ. RC\. Peter Letchlord I\ ill b~: \peaking on Monday, hh. 19. at lJ:OO in Old Chapel on ... k:-.u:-. Chri~t a:-. Lord and Sa1 iour.\ !hen on Wedne:-.day, hh. 21. at 9:00 in Hale Home l.oun!.!c, Keith (ll·eer \\ dl :-.pt:a~ tu ll' l'tJOcnning tht: Chri~ti:m\ call to J i-.,ci plt:~h ip. r\11 \\elm me. * * * * I hcre-\\lil he a part~ held lo1 ,til tho~e 1\ ho 11 ere in Rt:nnc:,. }·ranee, la\t faiL on \\'edn~::-.da1. h·hruar~ 21, at <.) p.m. :\n~lli;L. \\hu '' ould ll~~: to help Ill the preparatitlll' memorahilia arc 1\dcollll.' plea:.L' contact Rob1n 1'. S~llltlllLb (.\DP) 346-lJIJXX. tll I tllll \\ ,tr):!cr (Snuth) .1--ll> 9X9) . •• Dave's Mens Shop 453 State St. (downtown Schenectady) --l Dave's· Mens Shop 453 State St. (downtown Schenectady) ( ·lllerinfi to Partil'.l, Ranl/IICI.I C!umhakc.1, Wedding1 KELLY'S RESTAURANT AND GRILL 501 -503 Hattie Street Schenectady Tel. DI6-5059 - Dave's Mens Shop 453 State St. {downtown Schenectady) CONCORDIENSIS, Friday. Fehruary 16, 1973 An introductory workshop on Zen Buddhist practice wiH he held at The Zen Center, Sharon Springs, N.Y., from 10 A.M. until 4:30 P.M. on Sunday, Fch. 25th. It \\ill he conducted h\ Richard Clarke, the director ~f the center. a disciple of Roshi Philip Kapleau. In addition to discussions of self-liberation through Zen. there \\ill he demonstrations and e.'\planations of Zen methods of hody-mind training and periods of guided meditation (/a/en). \~ith opportumtll'S tor participant:-. to a~k 4uestiom throughout the day. There \\ill he a contribution of S II for the da~. l'er:-.on~ \\ ishing to particirate ;.hould contact the center h~ telephone. Space h hmrted. CaLl the Zen Center ()IX) 2X4-267D. * * * * lhcrl' \\ill 1-jL' a Stenin,t: Comm1ttee :Yieetrng on h~hruan 19, at '.UD 1'. \I. in the loUil):!e ol Heta I heta Pi Political Science: Under a new policy of last year, non-majors with :;ophc :uc;~ standing or higher may enrol'! 1n any upperclass Political Science course, except seminars. * * * * Callinr, a!/ sinKer.\ and 11 oufd- he sinxers: A new singing group is abowt to be formed! Composed basically of last term's Girls' Glee Club and MoJjntebanks Singers, this is a lively hunch who like to sing and welcome ne\\ members. II you are interested in singing e\ er_\ thing !rom Gregorian Chants to tht: :\e\\ Mu~ic, and in learning ho\\ to do it \\ ith both fun and t:ase. come join us on \fonda) and Wcdnc;.da:- alternoom, 4:30 to 5:45, 111 Humaniti~:' OllJ. P.S. :\o au d 1 t i om! \'v e he gin t h i ' \fonda~, 19 1-ehruan. See \ou there! Salt~ Se~m \lad.. director. l el. .177-H455. * * * * MAMA BIANCHI'S RESTAURANT 1135 Barrett St. Real Italian Food Cooked To Order We- Cater To Students The Frieildliest Place in Town OPEN TO 3 A.M. FRI. and SAT. * * * * For those who do not know, we are now in the midst of the Inter-fraternity Cmtncil Winter Weekend, and two major events have heen scheduled. Saturday afternoon from 2:00 to 4:30 Alexander Field will be the site for a series of cold weather activi.ties, including sled racing and cross-coun.try skiing (snov. condi,tions permitting). Beginning at 9:00 Saturday night aHd continuing until ahmtt I :00 A.M., the I FC Ball \ill he held at Girting Center, semi-formal and hy imitation only. * * * * f uesday night, February 20, \\ill he a \:Yl<nim m drililk-in\ at the RathskeUar. Bottles of .. Ma\\ will he onl)· :we and there \\ill he door prizes. The fun starts at H P.M., so drop by and have good hrew and a good time. * * * * There will be a PYE meeting Wednesday night, 7:00, il'l the basement of the i·n.firmarv. * * * * There will be a General H ilk! meeting Tuesday night, H:30, in Hale House Lounge. Committees will be gotten underway aHd some activities wiN he pla•l'lned. All are welcome. * * * * ~ 11111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 g i MIKE'S I I ERIE BLVD. I = = § HOT DOGS ~ = HAMBURGERS = = = = = !5 BEST STEAK ;_; i ~ I I~~~~~~~::~ i ii 111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 II F Moffett's Liquor Store 1505 VanVranken Ave. Schenectady, New York 12308 - AD!J TO YOUR EIJUCA TION - - 1./:AR/v' MURE ABOUT WINE.s·- !om Our W!.\L JA.'>rt.\ (1 CU 'B .\o Admt.\.\Wnl ( hurge \u l<l'lfllll'ement\ } ctch monlh \\(,_' 'dl:l..l dJdh:rvnl \I,Jnt.• to ht. lL' ... hd IIH.'TL' , ..... ! l.tlt.l u ... ,c..tlhlln~ !hl' \\lOt' In l!rl'.tl tkt..Jil '\ll \t,I'II..JTlit:~.trn ..thol!l 11 ( J11 thl\> o...trd thlll. ,.., .1 ru.lttl~ 1J! lh~o: l~h~.:l ..,P \~1tJ ~.~,n rc:rnt·rt;hrf tht \\tilt. m th ... lulur( !11 lfllrH\'\ \!1!11 ll.l'l. \\hl'n ~ou dmc nut or ''mrh v •• ult .1 t!~H~U h11tlll ol \\Jill _ _ The America they'll grow up in depends on all of usa Pretty soon you'll be in the driver's seat. With a responsibilityforthe way things go in this country. If you're like most young people today, you'd like to do something for people. But you're also interested in a career in business. Why not do both? In a career with a company that believes investment in people is as important as investment in things. Sure, we invest lots of money every year in American business. But we're making other kinds of investments, too. Investments in people ... with millions of dollars we direct into the fabric of American life. This money helps rebuild cities that are falling apart. Creates jobs for people who need them. Improves and expands hospitals and clinics. And gives young people a decent shot at the education they missed. You can be part of it. At Prudential we offer opportunities An Equal Opporturnty Emplover in marketing management, investments, applied computer technology, sales. accounting, actuarial, and other areas. As well as responsibility and challenge in a company that's committed to social involvement. A Prudential representative will be visiting your campus soon. Check with your Placement Office for the exact date and make arrangements to talk to him. Pmdenf1a/

E _meeting in the HHlel 8:30, in and planned. I ·=_-==~ ERS AK I i § 12308 pi<.:llll<.: Ill/ dtHt' be , .. i ; i ') ~ ' ·1 l . l ! . t' ~ ... ' I I . . . founded at Union College in 1877 Vol. 102, No. 32 Concordy Election Set for March 18 Elections for the position of Editor~in-Chief of Com()rdiensis for the next two trimesters (spring and fall 1973} willl)e held at the last newspaper meeting of the term, \Fhurs-Qay March 8; th~ last issue of this term will appear on Friday, March 9'. Anyone is eligible to run for the office of Editor-ip.-Chief, whether tf.i~y are presently working for Concordy 'or not; however, only cunent staff members a:re eligible to vote. Sinoe the editor-in-chiefs term of office goes for two terms (into the next ~cademic year), only underclassmen can throw their hat into the ring. Anyene who cliooses to run for the office should:submit their name in writing to the present editor-in-chief, in the Concordy mail box, Student Activities Office, Old Gym Hall. A,biding by its Constitution, Concordy now presents its current· Staff listing. All of the following people, in additiQn to those people listed on the masthead, are eligible to vote on Thursday, March 8: Billy DeBear Bill Etichsori lllyria Puharich D-oug Carpenter Gary Lovett Phil Alcabes Bill West Dan Rothblum Scott l~eiter Nelson Weil Daniel J. Valenti Rob Mondschein Tuesday, February 20, 1973 20 cents photo by Jeff Weilburg Robin Waring Mark W. Mindel Robert Shugoll Debbie Glasser Francesco Isgro Alsion Sloat Those students interested in serving on the Dean of Students Search Committee must submit their applications to ,, the Provost's Office (..second floor, Administrati()n :Building) by Friday, F ebma-ry 23 in order to receive consideration. Applicants for the Search Committee need only leave the.ir names; interviews will be h!!ld shortly to determine who gains ·the committee assignments. Applications will be accepted from freshmen,. sophomores, and juniors (no seniors). The selection of a new administrator whose position links him most closely with students should be a matter of vital importance to us, and the Sea~ch Committee will serve as a vehicle for campus opinion if students work toward that end. Union· Wheaton Glee Clubs Andy Pearce ' Perform ''King David\ Phyllis Edelman Marcy Kate Schwartl Louis Barash Da\itl Wagenknecht Judy Dein ' Mitch Wcisburgh Kipp Kelley P<.~t Bohca Barh Dewey R. B. Thau Don Krone G~orgc Stanwick Bob Sax Scott Gordon Dave Hardman by DANIEL J. V ALENTl Mark Almond Saturday Night The performance of Arthur- Honegger's \King David,\ presen-ted Sunday in Memorial Chapel by the comhined Glee cluhs of llnion and Wheaton Colleges, was a pure delight. The story is that of David's rise to power in Israel: set. however. to ~uch intrinsically apropos music and enchanting vocals. the story hecomes almost an aside. Simply reading David's work in the Old Testament restricts its application only to those matters that can be filed undcr\R\ for \religious or, to those of us less theistically inclined, under the concerns of great literatur.e, thus making it something to be scrutinized but not enjoyed. By setting the writing to music and chorus, though, Honegger has given \David\ a new life, a new pertinence to today's super- inundated culture. It very much exists on its own, not as the word of God, nor as a literary epic, but as an artistic experience concerned mainly with how it arranges itself, a true example of musical choissisme. The concern in Honegger's \King David\ is not with motivations, nor, in the traditional sense, even with people, by ROBERT SHUGOLL I he final Memorial Chapel concert of the Winter term will take place this Saturday night at 10:30, featuring Mark-Almond. The late starting time will make it possible for Union basketball fans to see the entire home game plus the concert. Tickets for the performance are $2.50 for Union students and $3.50 for all others, available now at the Student Activities Office. An added attraction to the music will come in the form of a \Cartoon Festival.\ .. The Mark-Almond Band originally evolved from an album (The Turning Point) and a tour with John Mayall, on which Englishmen Jon Mark and Johnny Almond played. After this successful excursion, the latter two formed their own group and recorded for Blue Thumb Records. Their first two albums were heard primarily on progressive FM stations; particularly noted songs were entitled \The City\ and \One Way Sunday.\ They've recently switched to the Columbia label, releasing an LP, Rising, and a single, \What Am I Living For.\ Mark, who had a bad accident this fall and supposedly lost a finger, has apparently recuperated enough to play finger-style guitar along with singing lead vocals. Almond is an extremely versatile instrumentalist who works on flute, vibes, organ, an\ various saxophones. His versatility points to the group's style which varies greatly and includes elements of jazz. rock, blues, and everi folk music. Other members of the group include bassist Colin Gibson, pianist Ken Craddock, trumpeter Geoff London, and drummer Dannie Richmond. The lntrafraternit)' Cound/ l'elehrated last ll'eekend's cold snap .\1-'ith a series of ra('('S on Alrxander Field as part vfthis Winter Weekend. On~l' fcmr house~ hrmwl the single-digit temperatures on Saturday afternoon tn participate in the races. Durin~ the I FC hall that ni~ht, the tetrl}Jerature at the A lhan;~· County Airport In' ather station dropped to 21 degrees he/ow ::ero, the coldest of the winter. photo by Bill Erichson HUGH ALLF.N WIL~ON photo by Jeff Weilberg but is with the arrangement of orchestra, chorus, soloists, and narrator. This harmony is responsible for the coherent beauty found within. When one tries to explain why something such as \King David'' moves one so deeply, one must conclude that it has something to do with the chorus. The composer has chosen the most sublime of all musical instruments: the human voice. There is a kind of pathos involved, a pathos which emanates from the yearnings of our shared humanity. It is the way one feels ' when listening to Beethoven's Ninth Symphony. It fills one with awe to consider that, for his final symphonic message; Beethoven used man's voice. I was immensely impressed at how conductor Hugh Allen Wilson succeeded in bringing the two singing groups together with so much tightness and fluidity, There were, except for possibly the most musically knowledgeable ears, no mistakes; even the transitions between \episodes\ were done w1th no fuss. The result was a presentation that sounded more like the work of a single club that had been together for years, rather than the work of two schools that sang together for only weeks. The accoustics were handled admirably, and there was no trouble in making out the words to the music. Soloists Ellalou Dimmock (soprano) and Carol Randles (alto) were stunning, and while Eric Herbst seemed at times unable to generate enough volume to be heard over the 21-piece orchestra, he was nonetheless creditable. (I speak, however, from a fourth-row seat.) President Harold Martin's narration was beautiful, and even-tempered enough to provide a link between the selections. All in all, it was a professional presentation, well- received and appreciated by those who came to see and hear it. Those responsible have plenty to be proud of.

meeting iH the Hii'lel H:30, in and plaNned. I GS HES d. II F 12308 'C.. t rhm~ ,1 ru.l till. Lf,l'f, g, I be ice founded at Union College in 1877 Vol. 102, No. 32 Concordy Election Set for March 18 Elections for the posi:tion of Editor-iN-Chief of Concordiensis for the next two trimesters (spring and fall 1973) wiH be held at the last newspaper meeting of the term, Thursday, March S: the last issue of this term will appear on Friday, March 9. Anyone is eligible to run for the office of Edi,tor-in-Chief, whether they are presently working for Concordy or not; however, only current staff members are eligible to \Ole. Sinoe the editor-in-chiefs term of office goes for two terms (into the next academic year), only underclassmen can throw their hat iHto the ring. Anyone who chooses to run for the office should submit their name in wri:ting to the present editor-in-chief. in the (oncordy mail box, StHdent Activities Office, Old Gym Hall. Abiding by its Constitution. Concordy now presents its current Staff listing. All of the following peoph:. in addition to those people listed on the masthead. are eligible to vote on Thursday. March H: Hilly DcHear Hill Erichson lllyria Puharich Doug Ca rpen tcr Cia ry I. 0\ ett Phil Alcahes Bill W c~t St·ott Reiter :'\elson Wei! Daniel .J. Valenti Roh Mond>chein Tuesday, February 20, 1973 20 cents photo by Jeff Weilburg Dan Rothblum Rohin Waring :vlark W. \llindcl Robert Shugoll lkhhie Cila-.~cr hancescn hl,!rt' Abion Slo;tt 1\ mh Pearce Those students interested in serving on the Dean of Students Search Committee must submit their applications to the Provost's Offil;e (second floor, Administration Building) b)· Friday. Februar) 23 in order to recehe con'tideration. Applicant'> for the Searrh Committl't' need onl~ leaH' Union-Wheaton Glee Clubs Perforn1 '•King David~ I'll\ lit' I tklntan \l.ttt.\ 1\.,ll•. <..;,h\\.111/ I ''I''' ltll.t,tt I l,t\ td \\ .t,•,·n r .. lt:r:il luth l)t'lll \ltkh \\c·t,hl;r~h 1'.'1'1' 1\.,·Jk\ l'.tt ll\hcr1 H.11 h I >nt c 1 R B. r ILILI I lou 1\. rotlt.' < it.·<>rgt.· St.tll\\ r, h Boh \a\ Sct•lt ( iorJ\n l>a\C Hardman their name'; intenil''\' vlill he hdd -.hortl~ to detrrminr \\ ho ~ain., thl' rommitlt'l' a,..,ignment-. ... \pplication'> ~~ill lw ant•pted from fre.,hmt•n. 'ophumorr,, and junior., (no .,t•niur-.j. ·1 he 'elrctiun of a nt•VI admini,lrator '1'1 ho'e po..,ition link' him mo~t dml'l~ \ith .. tudenh should be a matter of \ita I importancr to m, and the Search Committee will sene a!. a Hhicle for campu!. opinion if students work toward that end. I he \rthur lf,•nt'~l-'- '·, .. K 1 Tlc' ! 1.1 '. d \ ;'rc·\:ntt.·d '-.titld;il 111 \ki11•'11al Mark Almond Saturday Night t ·t!.tpt\i h, rh~· l-, ·rnhll:~·d < 1 ~-~·l· 1. :11h\ ~~~ l 111•'!1 ,!lhi \\h.__.tttlll ( 1 11 1~-~~·-... \\,J,,I j'lllc•klt~•hi I h,·,t•'i\ ''that \' I >.11 ttl\' r ;,l. !<> r•'\\ t'' 111 \' ,t,·l. ,,.!. h••\\t''-<'' l\ '\'\ ll'tllll'i·.•illv .tpr\r\' 1111:''· anti . tl< h., I,! ill!! \tll',ti'. tih' 'l<'T\ ht'L<>Ilit'' ,tilll<\t :111 .t'idl' '\!rnpl\ r,·,Hlrn~· I l.rl td', 11 <>rh Ill t lw <lid I e't.ti11L'Ill r,·..,tr icts ih :tpplic:t!T<IIl onh 1n thn,e rn,1tter' that ran he tiled ttmkr '\R\ j,,, \rdtgitllb.\ <ll, to tiH\l' ,,j us lc~s thei~ticall~ inclined. under the concern' nf great literature, thus making it something to be scrutinitcd hut not enjoyed. By setting the writing to music and chorm. though. Honegger has gi\en \David'\ a new life. a new pertinence to today\ super- inundated culture. It very much ex. ists nn its own. not as the word of God. nor as a literary epic. hut as an artistic c'l.perience concl'rned mainlv with how it arranges itself, a true- ex.ample of musical choissisme. The concern in Honegger's \King David\ is not with motivations, nor, in the traditional sense, even with people, by ROBERT SHllGOLl. I he final Memorial Chapel concert of the Winter term will take place this Saturday night at I 0:30. featuring Mark-Almond. The late -.tarting time will make it possible for Union basketball fans to sec the entire home game plus the concert. lickets for the performance are $2.50 for Union students and $3.50 for all others, available now at the Student Activities Office. An added attraction to the music will come in the form of a \Cartoon Festival.\ The Mark-Almond Band originally evolved from an album (The Turning Point) and a tour with John Mayall. on which Englishmen .Jon Mark and Johnny Almond played. After this successful excursion, the latter two formed their own group and recorded for Blue Thumb Records. I'hcir first two alhums were heard primarily on progressive FM stations; particularly noted songs were entitled \The City\ and \One Way Sunday:· They've recently switched to the Columbia label, releasing an J.P. Rising, and a single. \What Am I Living For.\ Mark, who had a bad accident this fall and supposedly lost a finger, has apparently recuperated enough to play finger-style guitar along with singing lead vocals. Almond is an extremely versatile instrumentalist who works on nute, vibes, organ, and various saxophones. His versatility points to the group\ ~tyle which varie~ great!) and include~ demenb ol J'ill. rock. blues, and e\cn folk mu~1c. Other members ol the group include bassist Ctllin Gibson, pianist Ken Craddock. trumpeter Geoff London, and drummer Dannie Richmond. The lntrafi·aternit r Cmmcil c('/ehrated /rl\1 1reekmd1 cold snap. 1rith a .~·eries of' race\ on . He nmder Field '\ fJOrt oj' this Winter 11-'eekend. Onlr .f!!llr hou\n hnn·ed the sifwle-digit temperatures on Saturdar a/iernoo11 rn participate in the races. During rlw I FC hall rhat nighr. the temperature at the Alhany Counll' A ir{)(Jrt \\Cather station drofJped to 2 I degrees he/o11· :ero, the co/de1! of' the \\'inter. photo by Bill Erichson HUGH A l.l.F:l\' W 1/.SON photo hy Jeff Weilherg but is with the arrangement of orchestra. chorus, ~oloists. and narrator. This harmon) i~ rc~pon~iblc for the coherent beaUt) found within. When one tries to explain why something such a~ \King D;n id\ mo\es one so deeply, one must conclude that it has ~omething to dn 1\ith the chorus. The cornpnser has chosen the most -.ublime of all mu~ical instruments: the human voice. There i~ a kind of pathos irn ol\ ed. a pathos v. hieh emanate~ from the yearnings of our shared humanity. It is the\' ay one feels when listening to Aeethmen\ ~inth Symph,my. It fills one with awe to consider that for his final symphonic message. Beethoven used man's voice. I was immensely impressed at how conductor Hugh Allen Wilson succeeded in bringing the two singing groups together with so much tightness and fluidity. There were, except for possibly the most musically knowledgeable ears, no mistakes; even the transitions bt:t\\t:t.:n \epi~odes .. were done\\ 1th no fu:-.s. The result was a presentation that sounded more lil..e the work of a ~inglc club that had been together for ~cars. rather than the worl.. of t\Hl schotlls that ~ang to get her for only \\ l'cks. !\he accnust ics were hand It'd admirahlv. and there was nl1 twuhle i~ mal..ing out the \\ords Ill the mus1c. Soloists Ellalou Dimmock (soprano) and Carol Handle~ (alto) were ,tunning, and whik Fric Herbst seemed at timt's unable to gl'ncrate crwugh \ olumc to he heard over the 21-piece orl'hestra. he was nonetheless creditable. (I speak. howe\er, from a fourth-row seat. l President Harold Martin\ narration \\as beautiful. and even-tempered enough tn provide a lin!.. between the selections. All in alL it v-.as a professional presentation, \Veli- rcceived and appreciated hy those who carne to see and hear it. !hose responsible ha\c plenty to he proud of.

\ Page2 CONCORDIENSIS, Tuesday, Fehruary 20, 1973 Letters In response to the artiCle by R, B. Thau on collegiate sports, Dear Mr. Thau, If you have ever played the .game of basketball you know that it is very enjoyable to win. I'm sure that guys like Mr. Underhiii give it their best and do not simply go out on the court for the amusement of persons sue has yourself or for the \sake of the futures of certain coaches.\ It is the essence of sports that when two teams come into competition each tries to defeat the other. It is a matter of personal pride to walk away the victor, perhaps proving that you can do something better than someone else. The way you arbitrarily categorize schools as to the purposes of their athletic programs is absurd. Are you trying to tell me that schools such as UCLA, etc., have no fans, no spectators that can feel a part of the game? Do you really believe that the C()aches and players on such teams have no respect for the game ofbasketball, don't feel the thrill of competition and play solely for the purposes of making it to the pros? Don't such teams also have a bench that they put in at the ends of their games? Sure there are a lot of guys in it for the money - but everyone? With papers falling due and finals approaching, the overcrowded library is increasingly coming to resemble a type of brig. Despite the best efforts of the library staff, facilities arc simply inadequate; the building cannot handle Union's larger and apparently more studious enrollment. For several years there have been plans for library expansion, but unless ·the College can match a Kresge Foundation grant by June 30 improvements might be indefinitely delayed. We urge you to sign the petition at the Schaffer Library Circulation Desk which expresses the sentiment that library extension should be our foremost priority, and t,hat all possible efforts should be made to raise the necessary money. This petition will be presented to the Board of Trustees in April.., photo by Bill Erichson CONCORDIENSIS founded at Union College in 1877 Editor-in-Chief ................ ~ ....... George Bain News Editor ............................. Tim Cain Managing Editors .................... Rita Morandi Dave Strom Features Editor .......................... AI Reisch Sports Editor ... , ................. Bruce Batchelder Photo Editors .......................... Les Kernan Jeff Weilburg Business Manager ................. Michael J. Hurley National Advertising ......... ' ......... Stephen Kelly Subscriptions ....................... Mike Bernstein Contributing Editors ............... Peter Bickerman Louis S. Snitkoff Offiee Stall' Phil A lcabcs Doug Carpenter Gary Lovett IIlyria Puharich Dan Rothblum Robin Waring Bill West ( 4 d 1 1 hi I d I . d · . i on~or tens:s \put' 1C ,.,, ... , til'' .11 and l nda1 du1111c the ,,·Jwnl 1ear ~\t·~p; dttrllli( <'\,IJlllll<lii<Hl and '<;<'ill loll p~l'l<><h h1 till' qudc'l;l hnd1 nl t ·ilion Coli~!!<'. Srh<:ll~L'Iild~. '\.Y \a!ltlll'tl adlcrll\11;~ ll'f'IL''l'lllalll<< '\ijlwn;d ! d ll<:a llllllal '\d1 L'rt 1'111!! s,·n1ce. l nl'. Cr>ll<·~e Pu hh'h''\ lh·pr\''<'ntat \'-'· \;at ronal Fduc;lllt>llal ild\crlr'lll!! ~en lee. Inc .. \.\ .(. I d11o1 r.d Oil rn:. Old Gym. trnwn ('nile~~- Puhlicatinn Offin-. lit,• .Jn\\h \\mid l'uhll.:atrrilh. Tl State Strc~t. Schenectad). \. Y. l ~.107. q.(1.~J56. lnt,-rcd rn the Sc.lwnc·c·tad' post office''' Second Cia•• M<til \1:rttcr::Suh,cnpt 11 >n ~II cent'\ n>p~ .SX .1 l<'a.l ddi\crcd am 11. here rn th~ I 'nitt•d State,. Deadline inr all COp). \\hich IIlli'! nc :, pcd and dnuhk··,jiill'Cd. \ \ r.rn \11 Mr.nda) and: rhur,da~ at the C'oncordJo ofli,·c·. ahmc Old Cl!ilJ><'I Office tclcpht>ne numh,•r\ J70-hl55. hut tlw ullin· i,., .nnl\ 111 IN'''\ \lund:\ and l hursda) nt!!hb. !·or all cd1torral maltt\. call th<' <'tlrtur -111·d11l'l at .N:i- 1640; lor 1nformatwn t<ill Stud~nt Acti-.rtrL'' Ollie'<' at .nll-niiX One sentence of your article that particularly bothered me was, \Schools in this group (meaning Union and the like) should not stress winning as much as the schools in the other group do because few athletes who attend colleges of this sort (Union) have aspirations of playing professional ball.\ The desire to win and aspirations of playing professional ball have noth<ing to do with each other. Everyone who plays baH wants to play well and plays to win. Otherwise, what is the sense of com pet it ion. Watch any intramural game. Those guys are for the must part just as competitive minded as any member of the varsity team. I like to see the Iast men on the bench play just as much as anyone else, a-nd I am much in agreement with you that they should see more playing time, especially in games well out of reach. But don't overlook ,the fact that these men. are basketball players and not clowns. Sincerely, Dennis Silverbloom '74 \\' * * * * To the Editor.: l read your headline article in Friday's issue with a fair amount of sadness. The positions of\Ditector of Career Counselling and Placement\ and .. Dean of Students\ both need a person of considerable energy, experience, and human warmth. I do not doubt that Dean Malloy will be able to take on the responsibilities of that new post and at the same time be able to do a good job. But at the same time I know that right now Dean Malloy is doing a DAMN good job. I have had the Track .Condnued&omPqe4 Unbeaten in dual and triangular meets, sophomore Bill Mowery once aga_in displayed his strength with a 50' 61,1\ put. Another sephomore, AI Gilewicz, blocked any Albany or R PI hopes for second place with a put of 44' 10l4 \. Freshman Milt Herring literally won the 50-yard dash by a hair. Herring leaned it out to beat McCarg of Albany, both runners crossing the line in 5. 7. Another freshman, Steve Jones, collected a few points by taking se.cond in the mile run and then returning to take third in the two-mile run. Tom Regan of R PI took top honors in the long jump, leaping 20' 111;4''. Dutchman John DeStefano was in foul trouble but managed to pull off a 20' 7 :X\ jump for second place. John De came back to grab a fourth in the high jump. Stan Jackson jumped 5' 10\ in the high jump to finish behind Malone of Albany, who also cleared 5' I 0\ but beat Stan on misses. Despite a valiant effort by Tim McCabe, who ran a 50.8 anchor leg in the mile relay, the Dutchmen were not able to catch · the Engineers, who had built up an early and solid lead. The R PI relay team finished two seconds ahead of Union with .a time of 3:37.6. This Sa-turday ··:·the Garnet thinclads return to Rochester to compete in the Rochester Invitational. The next meet to take place in the Memorial Fieldhouse will be the Union Invitational, on Saturday, March 10. experience of being in and around his office a lot this term and I have seen how valuable he is. in his present position. From my point of view, the Oean of Students must be a person to whom the students can go at any time with the assurance that the Dean will listen and try to be of all and any help that he/she can. Problems are usually the impetus for the student going in the. first place, so the Dean must be able to handle problems of aU sorts, but at the same time the Dean cannot be cold ·and calculating. The Dean must be warm, sincere, and open. Dean Malloy's door is open whenever he is there. He prefers that you feel free to walk in without knoeking. I have seen him, with a scheduled 3:00 p.m. meeting, at 2:55 come out of his office for a cup of coffee, see a student in. his waiting room, stop an,d ask them to wait a minute. He then pro.;:eeded to get his coffee, returned and ushered the student into the office, staying there 15~20 minutes w!lile the scheduled outsiders had towait until that problem was taken care of. I know.of no one on this campus 'who is more concerned with the security of the students than Dean Malloy. I know of no office on this campus that is more open to the students, that has tht: students so much in the forefront of its mind, than .that of the Dean of Students' Office. I can omly lay the credit h1 the lap of Dean Malloy himself. The office is !:ike a ship, the way it .trave·Jsdepends upon the captain of a vessel. I don't profess to pe an English major, so perhaps .rny metaphors are poor. But Dean Malloy's persoaality is the major factor in causing that Gfflce to be that way. If Dean Malloy is intent ln changing his position- here at Union, then I am sure that the seniors wiH have an ably equipped person to help them with tlleii- job placement problems. But t):le rest of the student body is .going to be losing an administrator, a member of the \establishment whose main concern is the student, and-nothing else. I wish Dean Malloy good· fortune in his jew job, but at the\. same time I regret our loss. Eric I.,. \Elf' Fox!Dail '76 Brothers Ill now has a sign out in fhmt arul on Thursday night il ll'i/1 ha\'f WRUC. The Social Committee has it's photo by Les Kernan dance, the I. F.C. its baH, and dancing and high times. SQmc The Brothers Three has WR UC say the Brothers Three arc this Thursday night Reports celebrating their new sign, hut from Old Gym Hall say that the most people maintain that the staff of WRUC is going all out WRUC remote is simply a good for the remote which starts at 8 way to start the Winter p.m. The tech staff (crack crew Weekend. In a final note about that they are) has been working the remote, a WRUC spokesman long hours to get the equipment said, \There is absolutely no into shape. The rest of WRUC's truth to the rumor that Nelson staff have been hard at work Rockefeller will attend or speak getting records and gene-rally at this week's remote.\ A good preparing for hours of good time is guaranteed for all. Freshman Hoop Continued from Page 4 the home team, while none of his Also, the Garnet received only two teammates could tally more than personal foul calls, while their seven points. opponents quickly exceeded the Bill Coppula, who has been limit and this allowed for the bonus touted in past articles for his situation and extra Garnet points. outstanding defensive play, led In fact, for the entire game, Union Union with fourteen points. Ray outscored Coast Guard 13-2 from Marcinowski added three to his the foul line and this was a major first half total, to close out with factor in the twenty~point victory. thirteen points, and John Coast Guard, who entered the Raymond added nine for the night. contest with a 6-8 record, could not The Garnet, who have been muster much of an attack when the somewhat erratic from the foul line teams returned for the second half. in recent games, shot !3 for 20 Again, they fouBd themselves over against the Academy, for a the foul limit, which considerably· respectable 65%. Mark Glazer, upset any plans of a late rally. The who tallied four of his six points Union defense again held Coast from the foul line, leads the team Guard in check, and only Jim with an 81% free-throw accuracy. Hanks could hit double figures for Levrs Dave's Mens Shop 453 State St. (downtown Schenectady) PROCTOR'S W:.~a: ST.ATE ·sT., SCHENECTADY' NOW PLAYING Moffett's Liquor Store The life an.d. Times of Judge Roy Bean 1505 VanVranken Ave. Schenectad)', New York 12308 -ADD TO YOUR EDUCATION- - LEARN MORE ABOUT WINES- Join Our WINE TAST/N(i CLUB No Admission~ Char!{e ·- No Requiremett/s Each month l'.c 'elect a d1tfcrent v.inc to he lt,ted. ·I hurt: I\ a card dt·,uihlnf! the v.m~ in gr~al detail\' ;c~iu c.in learn ahout rl. On th\ card there h a prtture of the lahcl '>0 )·OU can retncmhcr th,· uirrc 111 the lqture to rmprc\ ;our datu 11-hcn )oU d1nc out or '1mpl:.. v.an.t a good hotlk ol u.tnc· STARRING PAUl. NF:·WMAN Coming Soon Lady Sin_gs the Blues ~ J '·. r: ... ;., ,·: .. · h'' l: !'I 1.; ' J.d ',·j I rl !J

campus with the Dean on this to the stt.Idents so its mind, Students' he credit ln oy himself. , the way it ecaptainof to j:)e an my But Dean major to be intent Jn here ·at that the y equipped t·heir job tb.e rest to be . ,a member Nhosemain good· but atthee· loss. '76 ()I/ es. Some hree arc sign, but that the y a .good Winter about man utely no Nelson ot speak A good of his than been for his led nts. Ray to his out w.ith John he night. been line for 20 for a Glazer, points team I '! . i I . ,-f l '·'• <, ' . L; '.i ' ' ;·., ~ l I •'•J .· ( i:j ·, . ' CONCORDIENSIS, Tuesday, FehrualJ1 20, 1973 Page 3 Films on Campus The Silence- The last film in Bergman's trilogy. God's Silence. Two sisters (one representing sensuality, the other bankrupt spiritualit}) and a boy are in a foreign (;OUntry, Timoka (Estonian for \To the Hangman\). Hope. at the end. b iHlponed to the boy. Wednesday, February 2l. 2:30p.m. Lab fee course. The Balcony - Jean Genet's \is ion of the \\orld as brothel. Joseph Strick (\vho has made a cureer of adapting modern classic~ t,o the screen) directs. !:.ike Strick\ lilysses and Tropic of Cancer, much of the original's f1amr has been lost; e\cn so . .the play has been handled with reverence and care. Stars Peter Falk and Shelley Winters. Wednesct'a;, February 21. 7:00 & 9:00 p.m. Film Haps A<imission $1.00. Steven Sakal is the winner (:/ 1/w Crosnrord puzz/1! contest, printed a hove. He may pick up hi.<> a/hum ,af 357 Fox at his CU/7\'enh•f!('e, The Garden of the Finzi Continis - Based upon a novel by Giorgio Basani, one of the best regarded of contemporary Italian authors, this sweetly lyrical and nostalgic film treats the tragedy of a wealthy Jewish family trying to hide from M ussotini's anti- semitism by ignoring it. This film, which won the foreign language Oscar last year, marks the return to pt'ominence of Vittorio De Sica, a major force in the Italian Nco-Realist school (Bicycle Thief, Umberto D) who has not had, a success since T'WO Women. Saturday and Sunday, February 24 & 25, 7:00, 9:00, & I I :00 p.m. FHm Haps. Admission $1.00. On the Set of Moon Children Hot on the heels of The Maro~itz Haiitlet, Mountebanks will be presenting Moonchildren, a ,play of a completely different nature. Moonchildren will run March 1-4, in the Nott Memorial Theater_ Tickets are on sale 110w, and may be reserveo by calling the Box Office after I p_m, at 370-6153. Sappho was on the set of Moonchildren, and with much fortitude and cunning, managed to secu,re this interview with the director, Richard Mendoza. Sappho: Rich, what's S: That'& aU a little redundant, don't you think? M: Yes, well, it's a long play, almost three hours, you knGW. S: It sounds like another in a .too- long line of ··youth-culture\ theater pieces. M: Not really. l 'look on it more as a slapstick \Long Day's Journey Into Night.\ S: I'm afraid I don't understand. M: Neither did O'Neill. S: What is it that separates \Moonchildren\ from the run-of· the-mill comedy? M': I think the play combines all' the best elements of modern play that would not only have something worthwhile to say, but also be fun to do. Those were my original intentions, but now I've dropped them completely, and will settle for see'ing my name up in lights. S: Is there any significance in the title \Moonchildren'?\ M: Yes, of_ course there is. WRUC PROGRAM NOTES Tuesday 9-10 p.m. George Lipsky's '\Performing Live\ featuring Gary Myszkowski. \M()onchildren\ about? Mendoza: Well, it's about hour ... S: .. _and a half. I know. an theater. In the first scene Tevy.c meets Harold HilL They decide to take the ·showboat overland to Wednesday 9-10 p.m. Ne~ albums with Chuck Rothman featuring J_J. Cale. Thursday WRUC LIVE and. REMOTE from THE BROTHERS THREE. all the M:. Yes, well sorry. Actually it's a play about seven college seniors who live together, during their last year of co'llege, in the same apartment all together. It's a comedy-drama, often very funny, and yet occasionally humorous. Colorado ... S: Can we get off this? What were yo1:1r intentions in doing this production'! M: My original intention was to bring t<lgether a congenial group of actors with the structure of actiorl begins at 8 p.m. Remember Earth· News at 6 p.m. and 10 p.m. Ride Board Wednesday and Thursday (except this Thursday) between 10 & 10:30 p.m. The good neighbor needs a little something from you. A little something called blood. Sad to say, a mere three percent of all the people contribute one hundred percent of all the blood that's freely donated in America. And that's not all. This freely donated blood is ten times less likely to cause hepatitis in the recipient than is blood from commercial sources. So the blood you give to the American Red Cross-America's Good Neighbor-not only may sav·e a life. In today's serious blood situation, it also just might prevent a death. Or serious illness. Giving blood is easy, takes only a few minutes. Ask any donor. Be a good neighbor. Help The Good Neighbor. Today. the go_od ne1ghbor. The American Red Cross ~.._p;,T's, .:'~~ advertisihg contnbutcd for the public good ~ C'Out.~C'\Jo Persona - Bergman's masterpiece and easily one of the best films ever made. Both Liv Ullman and Bibi Andersson register magnificent performances. The plot is simple -~ an actress has chosen to retreat into muteness rather than go on with the lies of the world; after months in the care of a nurse, she concludes no escape is possible and she returns, without hope, to the role she had left. The play of themes, however, is complex -- illusion confronts reality, the artist must resolve the immorality .of his art, action is defeated by a cosmic void. Monday, February 26, 2:30p.m. Lab fee course, BLITHER Intramural indoor track meet will be held this Friday, February 23 and Monday, February 26. Schedule of events may be picked up in Coach Lawrence's office. * * * * Tickets are now on sale in the Student Activities Office for the Mark-Almond concert. The concert, to be he.ld on Saturday night, February 24th, at 10:30 P.M., will be opened by a cartoon festival featuring all your favorite cartoon characters!! Tickets are only $2.50 for Union College students (Don't forget your 10!). So top off the evening after the Union-Pace basketball game by coming to the concert, at Memorial Chapel. Any questions, call Mrs. Marra at the Student Activities Office,,370-6118. * * * * The Coffeehouse will present Ellen Warshaw and Union's Bob Bain and Dick Cittar on Friday night, February 23, at 8:30 in Old Chapel. Admission will be only 50(1:, so come on by for some good music, as well as free coffee and doughnuts. •••••••••••••••• i JAY 5 * * * * The Capital District Satsang Society will present a lecture entitled \Eckankar the ancient science of soul travel\ on Thursday, February 22, at 7:30 P.M., in Old Chapel A question period will follow the talk. * * * * Thursday night is girls' night at the Field House. From 7:30-9:00 P.M. students, student wives, and faculty wives are al'l invited to join in playing volleyball, basketball, and badminton. No skills are required; just enthusiasm. * * * * Attention Junior pre-meds: There will be a meeting on Wednesday, February 21 for all those interested in the Brody- Alsofrom prepping course for the MCATs. Humanities 112, 7:30. * * * * Experience Love. Come to our Christian Science Organization meeting Thursday night at 6:45 in H'U 018. The meetings will include Bible readings and testimonies of the everyday use of Christian Science. Freshman & Sophomore APARTMENT FOR RENT From July on, Y2 Block from Campus Call Joe - 370-0666 : Billiard : ) ,: Lounge : r LeVIS.: I 167 Jay St. = • -RELAX- • • • • PLAY POOL • • • • Daily 10-10 p.m. • • Sunday 2-8 p.m. : s. •••••••••••••• NEWEST • LUNCH For the best hot dogs and sauce in town. M-F 8 a.m.-2 a.m. Weekends 8 a.m.-4 a.m. ,_:;'15 Albany St. 346-9424 r:. r.i;;;;,;;n;;; ~~ '9&~ f\91 PHARMACY,....tNC. ~·Accuracy ~ 527 Union St. I § Schenectady N.Y. § Ph. 370-2300 . § WELCOME § f.. UNION STUDENTS ~ ~r..Q>r..Q><-O'>r..Q>'-(;ht.(;nt.O\><.<::n«' Dave's Mens Slaop 453 State St. . (downtown Scheneetady) MCAT-DAT-GRE LSAT-ATGSB OCAT NAT'L. BDS. * Preparation for tests required for admission to graduate and profes- sional schools • Six and twelve session courses * Small groups *Voluminous material for home stud prepared by experts in each field •Lesson schedule can be tailored to meet individual needs. lessons can be spread over a period of several months to a yea.-, ()r for out of town students, a period ofone~ek •Opportunityfor review of past lessons via tape a~ the center Special Compact Courses during Weekends - I ntersessions Summer Sessions STANLEY If. KAPlAN EDUCATIONAL CENTER ·LTD. 1675 East 16th Street Droolclvn. N V S:::..., ~ (212) 336-5300 -::~' (516) 538---1555 ~~ DAYS, EVENINGS, WEEKENDS ~ Branches in Major Cities in U.S.A. .The TUtJting School w1th lhe Notlonw•dt Reputol•o~

\ Page4 Tuesday, Fehruary ~0, /973 Varsity Hoopsters Stop CG In Low On 41-34 .··· ... .,·· Chuck Ahha, who lf'd Union scorers Smurdrn 11igh1 ll'ifh 13. photo by Bill Erichson by MARK MINDEL tournamentisexpectedtodrawsix Union Col.lege's successful teams this year rather than the basketball squad heads in to its previous four. final week of action with a 12-6 The victory over Coast Guard record after a super low scoring 41- Saturday saw the immovable . 34 victory over Coast Guard object face the immovable object. Saturday, in the first meeting ever With Union heading down to New between the two teams. Union London, Connecticut carrying an plays three games during this make impressive 59.8 points per game or break period, facing streaking defense, ranking them in the top arch-rival R.P.I. tonight, traveling twenty small schools in the nation, to Binghampton Thursday night and facing an Academy squad for a game against Harpur, and ranked lOth in the nation with an wrapping the year up with a even lower point per game allowed Saturday cantest against Pace. rating, many people were With a sweep of the three games expecting something close to a Union could conceivably receive scoreless tie, and that's just about an invitation to the ECAC post- what they got. Union and Coast Guard then traded baskets as the score soared to 35-34, hut the Dutchmen ripped off the last six points ofthe night to silence the Academy. R.P.l., meanwhile, has come charging oui of the Capital District Tournament audits upset victory over Siena, to post the best record in the Capital. District since the Christmas holiday affair. In fact, the Engineers~ playing many similar foes a.sUnion, ha::; swept to seven stra,igllt victories. The Engineers are led by guard Tom Juknis and forward Cary Cassetti and the Bill Kalbaugh coached tea:.m has shown an aggressive defense and improved confidence siuce being defeated by Union 61-56 in the tournament. Word hash that Billy Carmody, the ace blue-chipper from Spring Lake, Ne-w Jersey has been working out slowly and his knee, feared damaged for his career, is responding. Carmody, who would have been the key player in directing Union~s attack this year, could be a formidable addition to what may be a strong, if untested, squad next season. tJnion Doyle Walker Aoba Denio Gllgliotta Combs Totals COCIIt Get. G F T 2 ~ 7 Shl!Ck l :! 4 McGill 5 l 13 PG!!<o 3 1 7 Dul'!ccn 3 ~ B Trenchard 1 o- 2 Willwliit;; 15 11 ·41 Totals G F T 3 0 6 1 0 2. 1 2 4 5 2 12 0 4 4 3 0 & 13 8 34 UNION :IC, ~OCHESTER 12 118-Zullo {U) by fortel!. 126-Freemtm (U) dec. Barnhclrt, 15-2. 134-PaqucHe (U) pinned Parker, 3:29. 142-Medla CU) dec. Shady, 6'2. 1SCJ-!:verett ·JU) pinned· Schaefer, 4:05. 158-Kane ( Rl dec. White, 4·1. 167-Barrett JRJ pinned Schuf;zer, 1:25. ln-Gurhey (U) dec, Sflchnoth, s~. 19CJ-King (Rl <:lee. Lyons, 14-S. Heavyweight-Benedict (l}) by forfeit. UNION 63, ALBAMV 38, RPI 24 POLE VAULr-B~rlbeau (U), ClaytGn <UJ, Ricks < Ul~ by fOt\felt. · SHOT PUT-'MoWrey (U), Gllewicz (U), Gutman (AJ, Low~tl !RPI), 50-63. LONG JUMP~Rt>gon <RPI) OeStef\:mo [UJ, Mc:Carg (A),. Glgo CAl, 20·11VJ. HIGH JUMP- hf\alcme (A), Jackson [Ul, Reynolds CAl, DeStafa11o · (lJJ, 5-19. TWO·MILE RELAY- Union lHomlln, Cutts, Mindil;l, 1\1\cCabeJ, Albany, 8:21.5. MILE-Sore! (A), Jones (U), Hower '(A), Shirley· (R.PIJ; .4;30. ~McCal>e (U), White (U), •Rodri guez (Al, Crow-ley (A>, 1; 16.0. 55 HIGH HU~DLt:S-Frledman (RPIJ Seradokowskl IRPI), Kil'llm~ver (RPI), M<Jione (A), :07.7. ·so.- Hertlru~ tUJ,. M«<~r~ (Al, Tate (RPIJ, Sa',el ·(A), :05.7. !GOO-Mindel ( U), Hamlifn (U), Cutts (U), Catella (U) 1 2::~;8. TWO MILE-~hrcdtr '(A), Chtr'ilblno (A), Jortes (U), S~nllh '(U), ~:37.9. MILE RELAY.-.RFI, Uni-on, 3:37.~. Grapplers Topple Roch,este.r 34-12 by FRAN~ESCO ISGRO The Union College wrestling team closed its season by humbling highly regarded Roche$tet University 34-12. The high-spirited Gamets jumped to a 25-0lead after the first five matches, and. allowed the astonished Yell0wjackets to win only three bouts. The memorable victory upped the Dutchmen's record to 9-6-l. Quite an admirable ending for. the Everling coached team, whiCh, throughout the season, was.· plagued with sporadic drop-outs. Team Captain Mark Zullo, hungry to grapple at 118 lb., was left disappointed when he stepped on the mat and was a warded a win by forfeit. Zullo closed his dual meet season with a 12·2 record, and a first place finish at the Albany Tournament. Ace Freeman Tops Sophomore ace Bruce Freeman posted a stunning triumph over his highly touted opponent, who held Winter Track by ALISON SLOAT Two Union sweeps in the pole vault and <he 1000-yard run gave the Dutchmen twenty-one point~ which led to a 63-3X-24 \'icton over area rivals AI hanv State and RPI. . Mark Min del crossed the finish line in 2:2J.g for a first in the 1000. Minner was followed closely by Greg Hamlin, Crawf-ord Cutts, and Jim Catella at two-second intervals, to· bring home all four places in the ·event. Previously, Minner, Hamlin and Cutts had teamed up with Tim McCabe to beat Albany in the two-mile relay by over 14 seconds with a time of 8:21.5 Co- captain· McCabe came back to take the 600-yard run in l: 16.0. David White nosed out Rodriguez of Albany for second in 1:18.7. Continued on Page 2 ' a 7 -·! record. The Garnet ace buried his foe with a 15-2 decision. The win upped Freeman•s dual meets record to .Jl-3-2. He.abo won in the Albany Tourney. Andre Paquette, the 134 pounder, closed his season by· pinning his opponent in 3:29. 1t wa-s Paquette's fourth pin and fifth victory against qnly cine ·set-back. Freshman Scott Media, the' 142 pounder, clinched his fourth victory of the. year by firmly decisioning his opponent 6-2. Media's r~cord stands now at 5-6- 4. Speedy Tom Everett cruised to his 14th win of the season with a 4:05 fall over his helpless opponent. It was the sixth pin for fhe Garnet wrestler. Everett closec;l his season with an amazing overall record of 14-3-l. · The White Tragedy S0phomore JeffWhite dropped: a 4-1 decision to his foe, who was awarded one point due to a questionable penalty call by the referee in the third period. Trailing 2-I White was forced to get a takedown to win, but unfortunately his opponent outsmarted him and secured the move. Steve Schutzer, grappling at 167 lb., made an incredible start by <JUickly til king his opponent down. He then ·threw a Manchurian move, but the Manchurian hold turned against Shutzer who fell in 1:2-5. Senior Gary Gurney marked the end of his college wrestling career by blanking his opponent 5-0. The -win left the Senior with a 6-9 record. Gurney, who has wrestled at 167 lb. weight class, wi11 attempt to grapple. at 158 lb. in the coming State Championship. Greg Lyons, the modest 'Vermont grappler, became the 111ain attraction of the meet, as he 'Wrestled Rochester's captain, a senior with an undeleated season. Lyons suffered a 14-5 setback but mvertheless, he gave all that he had. · Benedict Getting Rusty season tournament, an affair Union felt the Coast Guard legitimately playable according to clamp first and dropped behind 8-0 NESCAC rules. With the NCAA before rallying to grab an ll-8 lead collegiate division tournament on a three point play by Mike scooping most of the cream of the Doyle with eight minutes gone in crop up for post season play, this the game. smaller scaled tournament may With the defenses tough and the have to go.afterlesstalentedteams. shooting extremely cold, Union Thus, R.P.I.'s 13-6and Union's 12- helil em to a 17-15lead at the half, 6 records before the outcome of for. ·one of the lowest scores at tonight's contest may be halftime in the past three seasons. Frosh Netters Stop CG 61-41 Notorious Howard Benedict kept his unblemished record alive by stepping on the mat and receiving a forfeit. Rusty Benedict remains the only undefeated VJrestler with an 11-0-2 record. The team will travel to R.I.T. this weekend to compete in the New York State Championship. Over 20 teams are expected to compete, including nationally ranked Buffalo University and Brockport State. The Dutchmen v.~ill definitely have competition. respectable enough for Playing a frontline of Doyle, consideration. Charlie Gugliotta, and Tom by BILLY DeBEAR Another factor making tonight's Combs much of the seco,nd half, contest and the winner's chance for Union jumped to a quick nine tourney consideration more point lead, 26-15 with fifteen powerful is that the NCAA minutes left to play, as they shut off ,..---=======-----::o.'!'r~ _ Cq~st Guard for almost five full ':;~ r,. '~l'rflhutes. . • tevfs. • Dave's Mens Shop 453 State St. . \oiO'XO\l\o(;~~?XQ>t~<b>~. F'OR· LIQUOR Coast Guard staged somewhat of a rally over the next eleven minutes and a basket by Joe Willwhite at 3:42 closed the gap to one, 33-32, but Union stiffened qown tlie str!:!tch. .... .. ~ . .. ~ . ~ ' ...... \\ - ' . The Union freshman basketball team upped its record to an impressive 14--1 mark, with a convincing 61-41 win over the Coast Guard Academy. After the longest bus ricle of the season, the frosh arrived in New London and promptly opened up a quick lead which they sll stained throughout the evening. The first half proved to be a rather low scoriug affair, as the AND WINE Try , .. 4L T; . i !< LUIGI'S RESTA·URANT -- J Jake Lipstein's SPECIALIZING tN Italian • AID8rlcan FOIGd 11'26 BARRETT ST. SchtnectJCiy Dl 6-9744 464 State Street ~ FR4~1888 . ~joy Sizzlinc;J Steaks and Chops Visit Our Coektait tier ~~~~ Garnet managed a 27-17 margin. Ray Marcinowski, with ten point~, and Bill Coppula, with nine points, accounted for the majority of Union's scoring punch during the first twenty minutes of action. A tenacious team defense was able to hold the Academy to only seventeen points; which constituted Union1s best defensive work of the season, point-wise. Continuea on Page 2 tevrs Dave's Mens Shop 453 State St. (downtown Schenectady) BOULEVARD BOWL 1315 Erie Blvd. 40 AMF BOWLING LANES 374-4171 Bowl for Health ; ~. I ' I ! ''· t ·. •. i:' : ;~ J-,• I I I I ~ ' ' i ; .... I I '• 'i \' l I ·i i ! i I : 'j ' I

ace buried The dual meets won in the the 134 season by· in 3:29. 1 t pin and fifth ·set~ back. the' 142 his fourth by firmly 6~2. now at 5~6~ cruised to with a helpless sixth pin for closed overall agedy hite dropped: who was due to a call by the Trailing to get a but opponent secured the pplingat 167 ble start by onent down. Manchurian hold who fell in marked the career 5-0. The with a 6~9 has wrestled wi11 attempt the coming modest became the as he captain, a ated season. setback but all that he Benedict record alive mat and sty Benedict undefeated record. el to R.I.T. in the to nationally and Dutchmen mpetition. Shop I: . . ~ : ·t 'i ) i 'f, ' l ' ,l- i 1 • i l I I u I 1 I ; i I l \ I ' l i '! I. l i i u !l : 1 l } i I . .~ I I. 1-l !<l .. ·. ~ l . I '! '' .. founded at Union· College in 1877 Vol. 102, No. 33 ,, Friday, February 23, 1973 Wilso:n Talks Q,n College Racism by DONALD HAMMERMAN Dr. Reginald Wilson, President of Wayne County Community College in Detroit, spoke to an audience of stud~nts and faculty Monda:y night in the Social Sciences Building. The title of his talk was \Racism Revisited: Is Higher Education the Enemy?\ reflected in the cunriculum, for · blacks are taught to view their culture as abnormal, necessitating a re-education of :the black student after leaving college. Changes are needed, he said, for \black studi~s have been introduced in a relati:vely 'sanitized' form.\ As to what may remedy the blatant perpetuation of racism, Dr. Wilson said; \nothing less than a sustained attack on academic imperialism will do.\ DR. REGINALD WILSON 20 cents Maras Notes Changes In Financial Aid by PHYLLIS EDELMAN To keep students aware of the ways in which they may meet their future financial needs While in college, Mr. Joseph T. Maras, Directer of S.tudent Aid, indicated the possibility of changes in some Federally sponsored financial aid programs, Changes have already been made in the Guaranteed Loan Program under the New York Higher Education Program. Dr. Wilson believes that the institution of higher learning is racist and perpetuates the racism . in our society today. \Institutions of higher educ:;1tion have been reflective of the social stratification in our society,\ he said. President Wilson began the body of his talk by outlining the three ways that institutions of higher education are racist. The first is the exclusionary role of the university. The society is reflected in the students by the admiss~on of students that conform to ·the university, thereby preserving the status quo. Wilson also finds the SAT's to be specious because they are \class bound'' and give an \unfair advantage to the verbally competent,\ causing a \s)(stematic denial of skills to blacks.\' \Institutions have gone on the offensive,\ he said, and a less blatant form of racism is fourishing with \aU'egedly scientific support for inequality.\ There has been. a \massive repression (which) has seen diminishment of the· student movem~nt,\ but, Dr. Wilson said, \the struggle to humanize society must be carried on:\ Farewell To The Tri -Captains The Federal programs affected would be the National Direct Student Loan (NDSL, formerly the National Defense Student Loan), the Economic Opportunity Grant (EOG), and the College Work/ Study Program. Changes. would only occur if another federally funded program, the Basic Opportunity Grant {BOG) was instituted. This latter program according to Mr. Maras is an entirely new concept. The BOG entitles any student receiving post~secondary education to receive the maximum amount of $1400 minus the family contribution as determined by a qualifying system like the Parents' Confidential Statement. The negative socialization of blacks is the second reality. That is, the chance for the minority to maintain and . strengthen a cultural identity is crippled beca:use .blacks ..are not rewarded with respect to their achievement, but as they come to approximate whites. Dr. Wilson, stating the third racist attitude, said, \the context of the curriculum is the most racist aspect of the university . milieu.\ The status quo is Bask ethan Bo:unce·a .. thon The Brothers of Phi Gamma Delta are sponsoring a \Basketball Bounce.,a~thon\ on Fel>ruary 23 and 24 for the benefit of the Schenectady County Big Brothers. They plan to bounce a basketball continuously for about 34 hours and have been soliciting pledges for each hour the ball is bounced and asking for donations from the community. The bouncing will take place in the Gazebo in the Mohawk Mall, and a group of Fijis will spend tonight and early Saturday morning in the Mall to keep the ball bouncing. The bouncing started at noon today and wiil continue until late Saturday night. The Big Brothers will also set up some information stands in t he M all t o d iss e m i n a te information about the Schenectady Big Brother Program to passing shoppers. Also, two basketball hoops will be located right outside the Gazebo in hopes of collecting co11tributions from shoppers.· As in all events like this, co11tributions are still urgently needed. The Fiji house is appealing to the College community for support in this event. If you would like to pledge or donate some money, please call the _Schenectady Big Brothers at 374-4523 or Phi Gamma Delta at 372-0172, or . stop up at the Mohawk Mall tonight or ~atllrday. And while the university is an active reinforcer of racism while claiming to be the vety opposite, Dr. Reginald Wilson said, \there is hope - in the young whites and the Third World scholars who are struggling to change the disciplines in which they are working.\ FINANCIAL AID APPLICATIONS Applications for all forms of financial aid are no.w available at the Office of Student Aid, Old Gym Hall. Students desiring renewal of aid as well as those seeking an original grant of assistance must submit applications. In addition to scholarships, applications must be filed for Grant~in-Aids, board jobs, room jobs, concensions, .and loans. Applications for aid must be submitted no later than May I st. by MARK W. MINDEL \With cannon booming and crowd roaring,\ wrote the Gazette's Cecil Walker last February 22, .. sensational senior guard J.immy Tedisco ... bid an emotional farew·ell to Schenectady.\ This Saturday, February 24, three rnore seniors, perhaps not as sensational in playing talent as Tedisco, but as deserving of applause for their hard work, de d i c. at ion, competitiveness, and leadership abi·lity, .will be bowing out,. playing their last game for Union College. .. Losing those three,\ moaned Gary Walters, smiling ironically, \will leave an incredible gap. Tom is the heart of our offense, Mike, our defense and rebounding, and Geoff, our press. From a personal standpoint, next year is just not going to be the same without them. Players with those three's attitudes make coaching worthwhile. I could coach twenty more years and not find tnree players on the same team with their moral character and make· up, let alone three guys in the t:~JTIP ,-.1-.:~~t;:~ ,, The Mark-Almond Band, preceeded h)' a cartoon festival, will appear tomorrow night in Memorial Chapel at 10:30 P.M. Tickets are on(r $2..50 fi:)r .rinion students with IDs and will he on sale at the door. Perhaps not so coincidentally, Mike Doyle (Linton), Tom Bacher (Catholic Central), and Geoff Walker (Colonie), all graduated from area schools. Bacher was by far the most highly touted. He was recently named to the all-time Troy area high school squad at center behind ex~NBAer Luther Rackley, but Walker and Doyle were not far behind. Geoff, named as an honorable mention to the aU~time Suburban team, was also a standout in track in the 440 and long jump. Mike, the unsung player on Linton's #I ranked NYS team, was picked as Player of the Year in the Class A League. At Union .the three current tri~ captains took separate paths to their starring roles. Bacher sat out his freshman year, Walker proved versatile and participated in track then started in football, while Doyle concentrated solely on basketball right from the start. All three have started since their sophomore year, the year Walters came and initiated his disciplined, yet winning, ways. In fact, Doyle has started in every single game in what will be a 64 game career save for the Hamilton contest last season whell Walters briefly started his grad.uating seniors. Over this three year span Mike, Tom, and Geoff have compiled an outstanding record of 49~ 13 pending the outcome of the Harpur and Pace games. Bacher leads the three in scoring average over the three years with a 14.4 average, but Doyle, averaging f4.0 has scored more points, 853-836, while leading in rebounds with 650 to 445 for Bacher. Walker has scored 643 points, hauled down 387 rebounds and scored at a I 0. 9 clip. Doyle, by far the most aggressive of the three on the court, has hit double figures in rebounding and points in the same game 17 times, while Walker has done it 7 times and Bacher three. While statistics measure to a certain degree the efficiency of a ballplayer, there is no unit of measurement, no method of determining rhe value of these three players to the Union College basketball program for the last three years, and, because of their impact, on the seasons to come. Gary Walters cannot express in words what these three have meant to him as well as he Continued on Page 7 Mr. Maras stressed that there is \a great degree of uncertainty\ regarding the institution of the BOG program. According to the Education Amendments Act of 1972, effective as of July I, 1972, the NDSL, EOG, and College Work/ Study programs must be fully funded at the same level as last year before the' BOG Program could receive any monies. The Federal Government, Mr. Maras noted, may attempt to siphon off funds from the NDSL and EOG programs to implement the BOG program which would not be fully funded. While offering up to $1400 to a student who shows need, the average BOG program grant would be approximately $400, due to the amount of money allocated to this program by the Federal government. Most important to note are the changes in the Guaranteed Loan Program effective March 1, 1973 as part of the New York Higher Education Program. This applies to all students, both those on aid and those who may wish to borrow. Federal legislation has made $2500 the ceiling level that can be borrowed, though each state is allowed to set its own limits below this ceiling. New York State limits the amount to $1500. Most states, Mr. Maras said, have similar programs to New York State. If a student resides in a state that does not participate or have its own program, a loan could be secured through the United Student Aid Fund. Specifications that must be met in order to borrow through the GLP include the completion of an affidavit by the student, before a notary, declaring that the money will only be used for educational expenses. Penalties are set for any violations in the use of the funds. The college financial aid officer is required to compute a financial aid analysis for each student applying for Federal Interest Benefits. Students who qualify for these benefits on the basis of financial need will have the interest on their loan paid for by the Federal Government while they are attending school. Those not applying for such benefits or disqualified will still be able to borrow under this program. Interest rates would have to be Continued on Pa.ge 2

,. \ Page 2 CONCORDIENSIS, Fridaf; Fchnufi'T' 23, /973 Stalemate In The Middle East by ROB RATHBUN This past Tuesday evening was marked by a surprisingly numer-ous (in the eyes of the guest speaker) turnout in Old Chapel to listen to Professor Rober Kanet speak on the role of the Soviet Union in the Middle East. \friends and allies\ that still remain non-communist. The Soviets are mainly concerned with receiving raw materials, especially oil, which is cheaper for them to import than to produce in their own eountry. They have shown political support for Arab goals and have provided economic and military aid to Middle Eastern countries without overtly supporting local Communist Professor Kanet, a very confident and amiable speaker, began his talk with the history of Russian policy towards the Middle East. The Soviets had interests in revolutionary activity earlier in thfs century, but internal problems forced the Soviets to withdraw their concentration to themselves, so from 1921 to 1939, the Russians ignored the Middle East. With their success in Wotld War 11, the Russians felt they deserved a slice of the ~ie and the Middle East was a ripe piece for carving .. But western opposition to the communist inroads in the Middle East, particularly in Libya and Iran, plus the Russi.ans' own lack of resources to extend' to the communist insurgents, thwarted Russian desires. From 1948 to 1954, the Soviets ignored the. Middle East, labelling the leaders of the countries as \lackeys\ and othe.r such warm-hearted expressions. But with the death of Stalin in 1953, they began to completely reverse their stance. The Soviets began to arm and provide Egypt with massive economic aid by I 955. Although they funded the Aswan Dam for Egypt, but they met with failure in Iraq as a coup overthrew a leftist oriented government. As the United States withdrew its interests_ the Soviets reciprocally increased their aid to Turkey and Iran. The Russians continued to build its ties with Egypt and the 1967 set back for the Egyptians actually benefitted the Russians, for the Egyptian government would be more dependent than ever on Russia. By early 1972, the Russians appeared to be dominant in the Middle East, but in a surprise move this past summer, Sadat expelled the Russians in his country. The situation between the two countries now appears to be a stalemate. movements. The Soviet policy is largely reactive; they seem to shape their policy as a response to specific events. Joseph T. Maras, Director of Student Aid, discusses new changes in financial aid at Union. What was most interesting was Pmfessor Kanet's comment that the Russians don't have anything to gain by a solution to the Arab- lsraeli conflict. Except for the opening of the Suez Caoal, the stalemate as it now exists is most beneficiaL The constant push- push, high\risk confrontations ma-ke the Arab countries dependent on Soviet aid to back their threats, but the lack of total war eliminates the high cost of all-out aggression. The Soviets have been rather successful at playing upon western mistakes in the Middle East, but they are surely not the controlling factor, for the Arab countries still can dictate their will and make it stick. Financial Aid Continued from Page l. paid for by the student while attending school. To meet increased college costs for next year, Mr. Maras disclosed that the College scholarship budget has been increasd by· $100,000 to $670,000. While still uncertain as to the status of the NDSL, EOG, and Work/Study programs, Mr. Maras plans to keep the student boey informed .of any changes that might go into effect. War With God by DANIEL J. VALENTI What the whole history of Russian intervention in the Middle East shows is that the Soviets are attempting to find What one concludes about the existence of God is always, at best, a disciplined form of speculation. If one, however, is willing or able to put aside the socialization process which :has taught him from the first available opportunity that there is a God (simply that one exists, with no reasons why), and is willing to assume and embrace the clarity of an open mind, he cannot avoid concluding, in the light of the social, cultural, and psychological need for a God by humans together with the physio- chemical explanations of life offered to us by modern science, that the idea of God is just an idea. Man was conceived without order, or in the midst of un-order. Actually, the situation neither CONCORDIENSIS founded at Union College in 1877 Editor-in-Chief ................ ~ ....... George lJ,ain News Editor ....... , ..................... Tim Cain Managing Editors .................... Rita Morandi . . . Dave Strom Features Editor .......................... AI Reisch Sports Editor ...................... Bruce Batchelder Photo Editors . , ........................ Les Kernan Jeff Weilburg Business Manager ................. Michael J. Hurley National Advertising .................. Stephen Kelly Subscriptions ........ · ............... Mike Bernstein Contributing Editors ............... Peter Bickerman Louis S. Snitkoff Office Staff Phil Alcabcs Doug ·Carpenter Gary Lovett lllyria Puharich Dan Rothblum Robin Waring Bill West Conrordiensfs 1' puhh'hL·d ~~~n lut·,d.ll and I rid.11 durin!! tltL' ,clloul ~~ar C\l'L'pt Ullrill!! l'\,Jillinatitlll and li;l'!ltiOil Jlt:riotJ, n; tfi~· 'tlldc•t;t Ot>J) t>l \·;1Jtll1 . Coll~g~. Schcncctad~. \.Y. \atronal athcrtl,ing rcprc'l'lllatllc. \\:.~.titlnal 1:-.dtmttitlll<ll ·\d\ dt1,1ng Sen 1c·c. l1il'. CniJi:~,. l'tihft,IIL'I, RL'J'I'C'L\Illutll <.\. \ational Fducational Ad\t.\rti~ill!! Scl'lll\e'. lnL· .. \. Y.C. I ditnrial Otlict·. Old Gym. 1 1 nion Colle!!C. l'uhli~atitln Oflil'c. I hL· .IL\\\i'h \\ tlrld l'uhli.\ation rJ State Strcc•t. Schcncc·tad\. :\.\ . 12.1()7 . .1-lh-2.15h. I ntc·rc•J 111 t he• Sl'ltc•ncc·tmh post ol'ficc a' Second Cl;1,, Muil \1attci'.Siih•cnpttt>n ~() ccnr- a e'tlfl) .$X a .1 ea·r dcli\crcd nn}\\hcrc in th~ ttnitl.'d Stall',. Deadline for all cop). 11hich llll!St hL' t} pcd and dnubfto-,pac·c·d. i' 7 p.rn. ••n Monda} and l'hursda) at the• (\oncord~ ollit-c. aholt' Old Charel. Ofl1cc telephone numher j, J71l-fll55. hut thL· t•flit'L' i' tllll\ in u,c lli1 \1,mda\ and fhursday nights. For all editorial maltcr,. tall t he• t•tiiwr-uHhicl at .N.i. 1640: for inft\rmntitincaliStudcnt Actilitics ()!'lice at .170-61 IK, requires nor merits any further moral speculation, i.e., conclusions or judgments. But because man thinks, and is separated from the other (lower) animals by his tremendously complex brain which seeks to scramble out the vignettes .of experience from the nada of un- order, he febels at the meaninglessness, thereby creating the \need\ for further speculation. He pursues the riext logical (if it can be called that) step - he creates order. This is done in an infinite number of ways, some more effective than others, but none totally effective. His most successful attempt at order is the creation of God, usually in his own image. Having a directive Force or Being above us, a force who has \the plan,\ immediately gives the accident of life a focus, a point to which it can aspire which goes beyond being simply a means. God becomes an end ~ he (God) secures that each part of fife, every act~on and inaction - no matter how unexp'lainable; how tragic, how meaningless - h'as a purpose and exists for a purpose. This then shifts the ' responsibility (and the potential problem) of existence from the believer (the person) to the idea (God). While this process is vitally important -to our society, a:nd should be preserved as an integral (although not dominant) component of our culture, we would be doing the ingenuity of man a gross iQjustice if we said that the idea was based on \Truth or at least a \True\ external reality. Of course, the idea is true, but it is not based on \Truth.\ It amounts to this: man accentuates the limits of birth and death on his existence, and then reasons thus: every limit implies something beyond it, therefore there must be a God. The fallacy here, unfortunately, is painl'ully obvious. All student car owners whose license numbers have changed with the advent of a new year should report to the Security Office and record the change on their regjstration ~forrs·., •. photo by Les Kernan BLITHER Despite the many housing difficulties which this year has been , witness to, some progress has been made in ttie· improvement of living .conditions in residence halls this year. The lounges in fox and . Davidson are presently being refurbished. Ping pong tables have been installed in Hickok, Edwards, West, and Davidson; one wiU be placed in the Fox lounge shortly. Front doors on both Fox and Davidson are to be replaced soon. Work will begin on February 26 (Monday) on the installation of laundry facilities in West College. They will be situated on the first floor, adjacent to the Ladies Lounge. * * * * Hillel Friday Night Shabbat Services take place every week at 7:30 p.m. in Arts 202. Services are organized, run, and led by students. All are welcome. * * * * Very Important HILLeL meeting on Monday, 7:30 p.m., Hale 1-!ouse Lounge. Several major items must be discussed and decided on. Please try to make it. * * * * There will be a PYE meeting at 7:00 p.m. in the basement of the infirmary. As usual, people are needed and everyone is welcome. * * * * The Chuck Mangione Quartet, a jazz ensemble from Rochester, will be heard in concert March 9 in the Cohoes High School Auditorium. T'he concert, which will begin at 8 P.M. will be for ehe benefit of the Cohoes Community Center. Tickets on sale all day, March I, at Student Activities Office, donation $3.00. * * * * Anyone interested in taking meals at Delta Upsilon this spring term please contact Tom Anacker or Bill Spelman, 346-9776. * * * * There wil1 be an organizational meeting for anyone interested in working on the Freshmax:t Record 1977, on Tuesday, February 27, at · 7:30 P.M. in the Social Science Lounge. If you are interested but can't make it, or if there are any questions, call Denise Ruthenberg, 346-9220. * * * * The next session of the Student-Faculty Bridge Tournament will be ·held on Marth 6th, at 7:45 P.M. in the Hale House Faculty Lounge. All those interested are welcome. The results of the last tournament are as follows: I. Dubious Lavin,..Marc Maller 2. Paul Chansky-Wilfred Guare 3. Danny Lui-Dave Gordon * * * * Anyone interested- in playing at the Finals Freebie Coffeehouse on March 2, please see either Barb Carabell (346-9935) or John Pe.rlstein (370-4228) as soon as possible. * * * * tetter To tbe Editor: Last week the Ad Hoc Committee on Housing offered sevenHsolutions for.alleviating the forthcomiHg housing shortage and concluded their memo by advising that \in all systems it must be pointed out that someone wins and so!Ueone loses.\ I propose that we replace the present school motto, \we are all brothers under the spirit of Minerva': with \in aJ.l systems it must be pointed out that someone wins and someone loses.\ Instead of French, the ne;vv motto should, be printed in computer langull.'ge. When we are closed out of courses, forced off campus, crowded into living rooms •. walk th~oughf~-a campus that· ~is · deferiofaf&g physically, dine· with dogs at our tables, .Jack ·adequate campus security, Hve in the midst of dormitory destruction, and are taxed annually with in~reas.ed tuition, it is not the spirit of brotherhood that permeates Union but the spirit of win and lose. . Sipcerely, Chuck'Sdbittt 1 73 . ', ~' .. ' _·. *' * * * The Coffeehouse will.~pr~sen! Ellen Warshaw and Union's own · Bob· Ba·in · and Dick · Cit tar tonight, February 23, at '8:30 in Old' Chapel. Admission will be only 50¢, so come on by for some good music and some free coffee and doughnuts. * * * * All candidates for Varsity Baseball are to report in the Field House next Tuesday, February 27, at 3 P.M. * * * * \Underwater Construction'' will be the topic of a U.S. Navy presentation at the next A.S.C.E. meeting on Tuesday, Feb. 27 at 7:00 P.M. in ~U 204. Also, officers will be elected for; the following year, and the March 6 dinner at Hale House will be discussed. Refreshments will be served. For further information, contact Peter Tavino, 346-9396. * * * * Tickets are available now for Moonchildren, the Mountebanks' latest piece of peanut-butter-and- poppycock-phoolery, which will be brightening up your winter evenings from Thursday through Saturday. March 1-4, beginning at 8 p.m. in Nott\ Memorial- Theater. Don't be left out in rhe cold! Reserve your tickets now. They're free for Union students and $2.00 for nonstudents. The box office is open daily after I P.M. Come on over, or phone 370-6153. * * * * Anyone wishing to take his little brother or her little sister to a circus on March 10 or I I, please call Theron Russell before March I at 346-'9114. Tickets furnished ftee. * * * * \The Professor As A Scholar\ series ·will present Professor &obert Wells (history) and Professor H owqrd , , . ~rJ:fhold (psychology) . , on .. W'edp~e~qay; 'February 28 at 7:30 in >l i4'ale House St.udent I.:ounge. Tli~y·will discuss their research and how it relates to their tole as teachers. Refreshments will definitely be served. * * * * Course requests are due at' the Office of the Registrar not later than February 26th. * * • * Very Much Wanted: A copy of Duncan Wallace's The Mountebank. If you have leads, tips, secret stockpiles, call Buckyat 346-9330. The newly-formed Social Relations Club will present a panel discussion on March 6 in the Hale House Lounge, on \The Future of the Vietnam Settlement in the United States and the World.\ The panel members include Profess9rs Kershner, Thurston, Tidmarch, and Wernette. * * * * ' 'i r. .\ l r l ' j I · t I 1 I . ~ 1, '.) 1 . i J I I F Confl De Gro Thursda Exam Listed t Qf,i ..,.., . BU-: HU ..... oc ..... PY- i NW- (N' ss •:-\ ~ ~~(:.:- Com Photog1 EcoOt Sec Eco01 Mr. Ph Econ' Prof. J\. Engli ~ Ptol Hi stu - ss Histu - ProJ Fren1 Robert: Fren• - HU Gern Warde Gern Kruger Span Vinick Socic 014- BiOI( . - Pro Bioi< Bireck~ Cher -- Pro Mat I Tornga Phy~ 116 - Psyc Prof. r Psyc Prof. r E.S. E.S. Goodh c.E. Harlov E.E. Prof. l , Com Engine T( Mathe Ecm - ss ''· Hist .'~ ~;bf'-'1! v . ',ifltefJ Hist - ss Hist Pre sen Hist SS II\ Frer - Hl Soci 014- Biol Lamb~ Bioi 114- Che 110- Gco Zimm1 Ma1 Theor ·Ma1 s

.\ CONCORD(ENSIS, Fridar. Fl·hruarr .?3, 1973 - . Page3 FINAL EXAM SCHEDULE, WINTER TERM,_ 197 3 Conflicts in Examin~tions should be repor.ted to Mrs~ De Groff in the Office of the Registrar not later than Thursday, March 8, 1973. Examinations will he held in the assigned rooms. Listed below is the code of the buildings to b~ used. SH ..,., Bailey Hall· BU - Butterfield llall HU ..-. Humanities Building OC ..... Old Chapel PY - Psychology Laboratory NW - SCience-Engineering Center (North Wing) SS ,~ Social Sciences Building ~~:(:.:.. ~teinm~tz Hall - . THURSDAY, MARCH 15 9;00-11:00 A.M. C()mp. Ed. 52 (Scientific and Technical Photography) - BH 205 ~ Prof. Jones Economics 10 (Elementary Economics, Part I) Sec. I ·- SS I I 5 - Prof. Prosper Economics 141 (Monetary Economics) - SS 113 - Mr. Phaup Economics 145 (Industrial Econimics)- SS 010 - Prof. Me Namara English 122 (The American Short Story)- HU U4 -Prof. Gado History tG (Colonial Period of America, l60J-1776) - SS ll2- Prof. Wells History 158 (Russia in the Imper~al Age) - SS 012 - Prof. Berk . French 11 (Basic French .II) - H U 117 - Prof. Roberts French 132 (A General View of French Literature 11) - HU 016 - Prof. Thomas German 10 (Basic Getman I) - HU ll5 - Prof. Warde German II (Basic German II) - HU 014 ,_ Mt. Kruger Spanish 11 (Basic Spapish II) - HU Il2 ~ Mrs .. Vinick Sociology 10 (Evolution of Human Society) - SS 014 - Prof. Wernette Biology 14 (Biology of Animals - Core I) - SS 0-16 Prof. Roth · . Biology 180 (Biochemistry) - BH 201 - Prof Birecka · Chemistry 118 (Inorganic Chemistry II) - BH 106 Prof. Weick Mathematics 28 (Probability)- BH 108 -.Prof. Tornga Phy!!ics 133 . (Electricity and Magnetism II) - NW 116 - Prof. W. Schwarz Psychology 24 (Social Psychology) - BU 204 Prof. Newman Psycl•olt»gy 38 (Child Psycholo·gy) - PY 113 Prof. Nancy W albek E.S. 20 (Mechanics) - SH I 10 - Prof. Mit'taJ. E.S. 24 (Electric Circuits) - SH 101 - Prof. Goodhea~t C.E. 44 (Engineering Planning) - BU 300 - Prof. Harlow E.E. 143 (Electromagnetic Theory) - SH 100 Prof. Driscoll *************** THURSDAY, MARCH 15 2:00-4:00 P.M. Comp. Ed. 11 (Freshman Commons in Science and Engineering) . Topic 3 (Introduction to Contemporary Mathematics) - BH 312 - Prof. Strait Economics 142 (Macroeconomic Theory and Policy) - SS 012 - Miss Kent _.;~.;lJ_.IJ,~l~oq 15 (Mode;n America: The New Deal and . ;,1-ftep - SS 115 - Prof. Jonas · History 36 (A Survey of Modern Europe, i 715-1945) - SS 112 - Prof. Berk Hist~ry 48 (History of Modern Britain: 1688 to the Present) - SS 113 - Prof. Finkelstein History 137 (The Age of Democratic Revolution) - SS 117 - Prof. Hansen French 133 (The French Language in Practical Use I) HU 117 - Prof. Roberts Sociology 60 (Methods of Social Research) - SS 014 - Prof. Kusterer Biology 12 (The Ce.ll ~ Core II) - H U II S - Prof. Lambert Biology 15 .(Continuity of Life - Core IV) - H U 114 - Profs. Butzel and Dalgleish Chem~stry 142 (Chemical Instrumentation) - SH 110 - Prof. Werner . Geology 10 (Physical Geology) - BU 204 - Prof. Zunmerman Mathematics 18 (Introduction to Logic and Set Theory.) ...:- B H 205 - Prof. Stone · Math~matics .30 · (Ordiqary DifferentiaL Eq~~tions) Sec. 2- BH 201 ~ Prof. Tornga · Mathematics 128 (Vector and Tensor Analysis) - BH !04 - Prof. Seiken Mathematics 138 (Multivariable Calculus I}- BH l 06 - Prof. Gillette Physics 17 (Principles of Modern Physics II)- NW 116 ,__ Prof. Goble Psychology 20 (Statistical Methods in Psychology)- SS 016 - Prof. Berthold Psychology 31 (Abnormal Psychology)- PY 102 ~ Prof. Pearce E.S. 22 (Science of Engineering Materials)- BH 207 - Prof. Potter . E.S. 30 (Mechanics of Deformable Solids}- SH 100 - Prof. Panlilio C.E. 30 (Structures) - BU W9 - Mr. Pikul E.E. 141 (Energy Conversion and PQwer Electronics) - SH 219 - Prof. lngv11rsson ***************** FRIDAY, MARCH 16 9:00-11:00 A.M. Comp. Ed. 11 (FFeshman Commons in Science and Engineering) Topic 4 (Introduction to Computer Programming) .Sec .. 1 - BH 20:1 - Prof. Gajjar Sec. 2 ~ BH 207 _:__ P·rof. Hoffman Comp. Ed. 20 (The Modern Temper)- SS 016- Prof. Gado (:omp. Ed. 89 (Problems in Administrative . Responsibility) - HU 115 - Prof. Enteman Economics 10 (Elementary Economics, Part I) Sec. 2 - SS 112 - Prof. Wile Economics 140 (Labor Economics) ~ SS 115 - Prof. prosper · History 194 (Seminar in Asian History: Comparative Modernization) - SS 010 - Prof. Thurston Philosophy 20 {Classical Logic)- HU 114- Prof. Peterson Political Science 162 (Judicial System) - SS 117- Prof. W. Daniels Sociology 112 (Dynamics of American Society) - SS 0 12 - Prof. Gracey Psychology 50 {Educational Psychology) - PY 102 - Prof;Girdner C.S. 12 (Fortran Programming) - BU 204 - Prof. !-l~rtwig C.S. 22(Num~rical Methods for Computers) - BH 108 - Prof. Craig FRIDAY, MARCH 16 2:00-4:00 P.M. Economics 10 (Elementary Economics, Part I) Sec. 3 - SS 115 - Mr. Phaup History 132 (Late Medieval and Renaissance Europe) · - SS 117 - Prof. N. Allen German 142 (German Romanticism and Realism)- HU 117 - Prof. Warde Philosophy 13 (Ethics) - HU 114 - Mr. Bynagle Political Science 166 (Presidential Politics)- SS 112 - Prof. W. Daniels ~ociology 124 (Political Sociology) - SS 113 - Prof. Wernette Biology 170 (General and Comparative Endocrinology) - S.S. 016 - Profs. Butterstein and Roth . E.S. 11 (Systems, Computers. and Design II) Sec. I - BH 201 - Prof. Driscoll Sec. 2 - BH 207 - Prof. Galantowicz Sec. 3 - SH I 10 - Prof. Eisenstadt Sec. 4- BU 109 - Mr. Pikul - *************** SATURDAY, MARCH 17 9:00-11:00 A.M. Chinese 11 (Basic Chinese II) - HU I IO - Prof. Woo Chinese 131 (Modern Chinese II) - HU 110 - Prof. Woo Chinese 141 (Modern Expository Chinese II) - HU 110 ::- Prof. Woo Chemistry 12 (Fundamental Chemistry Il) Sec. I - SS 0 16 - P·rof. Scaife Sec. 2 ::..._ SS 016 - Prof. Schaefer Sec. 3 - SS 016 - Prof. Hull Sec. 4 - SS 016 - Prof. Sutter Chemistry 32 (Organic Chemistry II) Sec. l - BU 204 - Prof. Sheffer Sec. 2 - BU 204 - Prof. Sowa Mathematics 171 (Topology II)- BH 201 - Prof. Fairchild C.S. 126 (Advanced Software Design)- BH 203 - Prof. G. Williams . 2:00 • 4:00P.M. , E~onomics 11 (Elementary Economics, Part JI) ~ec, I · SS ,J 12 ~ Miss Kent . ·Sec. 2 - SS 115 - Prof Kenny . Ec-onomies 139 (Public ~inance) _ s.s. 0 !6 _ p · f Herrnan ro · Physics 11 (Introduction to Physics I) Sec. l - SH 100 : Prof. Windsor Sec. 2 - SH lOl - Prof Hall C.S. 18 (Introduction to Digital Computers) - BH 20 I - Mr. McKeown **************** MONDAY, MARCH 19 9:00 - 11:00 A.M. Corqp. Ed. 10 (Freshman Commons in Humanities and Social Sciences) Topic 10 (The Evolution of Human Society) - SS 112 - Prof Kusterer Russian U (Basic Russian II) - H U 112 - Mrs. Jernakoff Accounting 10 (Principles of Accounting) - OC - Mr. Kauth Biology 149 (Biophysical Aspects of Cell Physiology) - B H 207 - Prof. Lambert ~iology 156 (Animal Organogenesis) - NW 116 ~ Prof. Rappaport Chemistry 10 (Fundamental Chemistry l) Sec. I - BU 204 - Prof Schaefer Sec. 2 - BU 204 - Prof Scaife Chemistry 154 (Physical Chemistry I II) - SS 0 I 0 - Prof. Sutter Geology 51 (Oceanography) - BU 109 - Prof. Zimmerman Mathematics 30 (Ordinary Differential Equations) Sec. 1 - BH I 02 - Prof. Leach Physics. 1.3 (Introduction to Physics II)- SH 106- Prof. Titus Physics 24 {Statistical Thermodynamics)~ NW 222 - Prof. Lewis Psychology lO (A First Course in Psychology) Sec. I - PY 113 - Prof. Huntley Psychology 48 (Clinical Psychology I) - PY 102 - Prof. Dowling E.S. 26 (Thermodynamics and Heat Transfer)- SH 110 - Prof. Aubrey C.E. 49 (Environmental Engineering I) - BU 300- Mr. Carlson 2:00-4:00 P.M. English 144 (Autobiography) - H U 110 - Prof Gado :Spanish 131 (Introduction to Spanish-American Literature) - HU 112 - Mrs. Astiz Statistics 10 (Introduction to Statistics) - SS 112 - Prof. Hoiska Mathematics 10 (Calculus I) Sec. 1 - BU 204 - Prof. Ling Sec. 2 - BU 204 - Prof. Roulier Mathematics 12 (Calculus II) Sec. I - BH 207 - Prof. Stone Sec. 2 - BU 204 - Prof. Maddaus Sec. 3 - BU 204 - Prof. Leach Sec. 4 - SS 016 - Prof. Loughlin Sec. 5 - HU 114 - Prof. Gillette Sec. 6 - SS 016 - Prof. Fairchild Mathematics 14 (Calculus III) Sec. I - BU 204 ·- Prof Maddaus Sec. 2 - SS 016 - Prof. FSeiken Psychology 56 (Seminar in Counseling II) - PY I 13 - Mrs. Conable · E.E. 32 (Introduction to Semiconductor Devices and Circuits) - BH 20 I .:_ Prof. Gajjar *************** TUESDAY, MARCH 20 9:00-11-00 A.M. Comp. Ed. 65 (Evolution and Man) - BU 204 _ Prof. Dalgleish Comp •. Ed. 68 (Engineering Control Systems and Cybernetics) - BH 205 - Prof. Russ Comp. Ed. 80 (Individual Liberty and Social Order· Areas of Conflict) - SS 113 - Prof, N. Allen - Greek 11 (Principles of Greek)_ HU 110 _Prof. Testroet Greek 134 (Homer: The Odyssey)- HU 1!0- Prof. Testroet Latin 11 (Principles of Latin) - H U 1 10 - Prof. Testroet German 131 (Introduction to the Study of Literature) HU 116- Prof. Warde Philosophy 12 (Philosophical Problems) - H U 117 - Prof, Bynagle Political Science 145 (The Chinese Political Behavior) - SS 014 - Prof. Thurston Sociology 35 (Social Conflict and Peace Research) - HU 115 - Prof. Wernette Mathematics 42 (Linear Algebra I't) - BH 201 - Prof. Fairchild . Mathematics 137 (Real Variable Theory II) - BH 203 - Prof. Roulier . Physics 123 (The Planet Earth) - SH 100- Prof. -~s~.u · Continued on Page 6

Page4 CONCORDJ£/VSIS, fr.iday.'Fl'hnM:t•23, /973 A Night at Schaffer's or \the watering hole of the ocaderriic jet set of Schenectady'' or \a candid collection of Bill's stilts., all photos by Bill Erichsen f .' :·· ·t·' .. l . ' .. ~,- l I. ; 1 •• i ' : I, .< I . . \ I• I ', :. ' \ . ~ t I. ' I l I l l . i i .;.'•

Page 4. CON COR Dl FNS!S, Fridar. 'F£·hrurrry 23. /973 A Night at Schaffer's or \the watering hole of the academic jet set of Schenectady\ or ~ \a candid collection of Bill's stills\ all photos by Bill Erichsen

!'· i I .< ,) I 'i I ' : ',, i I i ' I I I i CONCORDIENS/S, Friday. Fl·hruary .?3, 1973 Page 5

CONCORDIF.NS/S, Friday. F<·hruar_l·13, 1973 Page 5 I

Pag£' 6 Hoop Continued from Page 8 wee:ks. Tomorrow at 6 P.M., before the varsity encounter with Pace, the frosh will take on the alumni. A fellow by the name of Jimmy Tedisco will be the main attraction in this game, which should make for an exciting prelude to the varsity finale. Boxscores: F~A i=GM FTA FTM R A TP RPI (62) Juknls 13 7 6 4 Dassaltl 15 9 · 6 . S 7 6 18 7 3 23 .. 3 2 1 0 0 7 .),. 8 4 I S 2 I 6 Dunn 2 1 0 0 Coole 0000 Go~mon 5 4 o 0 Susetka 5 1 7 3 . McO.OOnell 1 0 o · o Totals •• 47 24 !ll 14 un1oti c.uJ 41 13 62. Doyle 18 5 6 o& 13 2 14 · Walker 10 5 T 0 5 3 10 Abba s o 2 o :3 .0 0 1 Combs · 5 2 i· 0 3· 1 5 ' GIJiilTotla 12 4 7 ~- 7 0 13 ' 1 Bather' 3 1 0 0' 1 0 ·3, · Totals .. bl 19 .1~ 10 37 6 4& , RPt ................. ~•···-········ 32 :ta--62 Union ...................... ~·····\ 24 ~~ Fauled Out: RPI-Ounn; Unlon-L>o.yle. , Technitol Fouls: Uni!Jn:-Coa-ch Wolters. ' *Include~ team rebounds. * * * RPI Frosll • Union- Frosh Lausch Veith McElroy Hilts OeGroce Murray GFT GFT 4 1 9 Raymond 2 1 5 5 5 15 Kelly 11 5 27 6 3 15 Henson 2 · 0 4 2 3 7 Morcin's-kl 1 o 2 3 2 8 Vlnlar 1 0 2 o 2 2 Breton 3 1 7 • · c;t:~ppola. 4 ~ 1 o I Totals 20 16 56 Totals 24 9 57 Union Doyle Bacher Walker AbbCJ Denio Combs Gugliotta Totals Binghamton GFT • GFT 5 3 13 Stein 7 6 20 6 0 12 Lipshutz 1 0 2 3 1· 7Moll~n 1 0 2 4 1 9·Brody 5 o 10 6 0 12 Marian I !116 3 0 6 2 3 7 29 a 66 Totals 22 6 50 - . tevrs Dave's. Mens Shop 453 State St. (dqwntown Schenectady) CONCORDIENSIS, Frlda.J'. Felmwry 23, 1973 TUESDAY, MARCH ZO ~}:00-ll:OO a.m. Continl(edfrom PagP 3 Psychology 10 (A First Course in Psychology) Sec. 2- ·PY 102 - Prof. Nancy Walbek Sec. 3 - PY 113 - Prof. Berthold C.E. 41 (Legal Aspects of Engineering) - -BU 109 - Prof. Harlow 2:00m4:00 P .M, Hebrew II (Basic Hebrew II) - HU 117 - Mr. Welkovics Spanish 144 (The Generation .of 1898)- H U I 10 - Mrs. Astiz Mathematics 32 (Abstract Algebra I) Sec. I - BH 108 - Prof. Loughlin Sec. 2 - BH 104 - Prof. Ling Physics 11 (lntroduc.tion to Physics I) (for HioloE)', Science and Center I) - BU 204 - Prof. Schwarz Psychology 10 (A First Course in Psychology) _ Sec. 4 ~--:. PY 102 .~ Prof Newman Seniors: Graduatio·n announcements ~- Please place your order as soon as possible with Mrs. Marra in Student Activities Office. Deadline is March 2, 1973. * * * * Gatesmen applications are now available at the Admissions Office. They may be picked up at any time during the day, Monday through Friday. Applications must be completed and returned by March 13. Anyone interested in playing, at the Finals Freebie Coffeehouse on March 9, please contact either Barb Carabell (346-9935) or John Perlstein ( 370-4228 ). * * * :f< TERM-JNAL OFFER: Want 2 copies of Ouncari Wallace's \The Mountebank.\ \Viii pay $1'0 each for used books. Call 346-2356 weekdays, ask for Bru.ce. * * * * Waiter needed at Sigma Phi Fraternity. Monday through Friday - Lunch and Dinner. Inquire immediately, 346-9225. MAMA .BIANCHI'S REST AURANl. 11~5 BaJJttt St. Real Italian food Coo-.ked 1 o ·O-rder We Cater To Students The Friendlif!st ?lace .in _Town OPEN TO 3 A.M. FRI. a11~. SAT. Ma,uriceB. Graub·art & Sons - The Jay Street Jeweler FOR HONEST SERVICE AND GOOD JEWELRY \For Three Generapons\ 166 JAY STREET, DOWNTOWN 374-5404 APEX MUSIC KO'RNER Announces New Student Discount For UNION STUDENTS UPON PRESENTATION OF COLLEGE l.D. YOU GET $1 00 OFF Regular List Price On All Albums. & 1 O' Discount or s~t.Je price with. a I 0% discount CORNER BROADWAY AND STATE ST. .· PR •. ·o· c· _-r·. ··o· ·_.R· 'S\ .· r_HEATER . ·. . . . . . . . 374-3308 .. . • STATE ST .. SCHENECTADY NOW PLAYING The Li.·fe and Times of Judge :Roy Bean Coming Soon lady Sings the Blues ONCE, A KNIGHT PREPARETH TO WASTE A DRAGON, WHEN HIS HAND WAS STAYED BY AN OFFER! NG ... THAT PROMISETH GREAT RICHES AND THE ACCLAIME OF ALL ... ENTRANCED BECAME THE KNIGHT,. At-.10 HE PURCHASETH THE KIT FOR TH~ TWO Sl X- PACKS OF SCHAEFER BE ERE HE CARRIED ... AND HE WORKETH ON HIS ACT FOR MANY HOURS ••• BEFORE GOING OFF TO AMUSE THE KING WITH HIS FIRST JEST ... .' .. EIGI-IT KINGS, SIRE., ONE. Klt-!G TO HOLD THE L JGHTBULB AN[! SEVEN TO TURN THE LADDER ... I WHICHE ALSO WAS HIS LAST... \,Y C> t> . ··.· I> \1 A ,..-. TI 1 ;~0;'. ~·~,· .. }. : ' ~ ( .express1 face. If emotim by his . ,;~ say, a .v,i h t' , J t ose '·. <1 We ; · ;r ~ ' . ~ ·,. \~ . . -~ ; . . ,\ ' J

1 i I - .. ~ .,, ; . .:.1 ' ' ··:1 \j: ' ' '·' ' J \ CONCORD/EN SIS, Friday, Fehruary 43. 1973 Tri-Captains Bow Out I ~·. \ . . . . ::;l1 Continu~ from Pag~ 1 expresses it just by the look on his face. If a coach can ever feel as emotionally moved and affected by his ballplayers as he can by ~ay, a son, Gary Walters loves those three. photo by Bill Erichson and Geoff next year, and all I calf hope for is that Union will continually be blessed with the likes of these three players. My only wish is that they be treated Saturday night with the same emotional farewell as Tedisco. We will all miss Tom, Mike, photo by ijill Erichson - - Brothers Ill I I SPECIAL I 1;4 lb. Roast Beef I French Fries $1.25 l Draft Beer ., . Come to the post-game ( l . festivities Saturday night I -after Pace I I I Folk si!l ger s: t Kitchen and Bonno I SOc Cover 9 p.m ... 1 a.m. I Cheese & peanuts availahle at afl times. I Career .Highlights 1970-71: Union 66 Kings Point 59 Doyle 17 points, 19 reb. Union 80 Pace 65 Walker 16 points(8 for 10) 8 rebounds Union ~4 Trinity 79 Bacher 23 points ( lO for 13) 15 rebounds Union~~ Drew 59 Union 115 Loyola 83 (Bacher 47 points, 20 Feb.) (Doyle 47 points, 23 reb.) Union 70 Wesleyan 71 Bacher 32 points, 14 reb. 1971-72: Union 77 Pace 71 Walker 18 paints 16 reb. Union 77 Kings Point (;5 Bacher 20 pts, 1-2 reb. Union 83 RPI 66 Doyle 17 points 16 rebounds Union 72 Wesleyan 53 Doyle, Walker combine for 19- 20 FT's Union88 Williams 71 Bacher, Walker combine for 46 Union 65 Bridgeport 75 points(l9 for 30) 'Doyle 22 points Union 64 Amherst 63 Doyle, Bacher, 28 pts., 24 reb. 1972-73: Union 70 Utica 65 Doyle 14 pts, 10 reb. Bacher 1 .1 points Union~ 7 i Kings Point 65 Bacher : S points (13-16) U nioll 6t Rochestell' 55 Doyle; V alker combine for 29 points, 24 rebounds Swimming Continued from Page 8 Foote Memorial Pool on Saturday afternoon against a tough squad from Hamilton College. The action starts at I :00 p.m. and a good turnout would undoubtedly help the team out tremendously. While this year's team, coached by one~time standout (at Cortland) Bob McMurray has suffered depth problems in their dual meets, their enthusiasm and hard work in those long dreary hours in the pool has paid off in greatly improved times all season long. Come see the Garnet natators in their final home meet of the season. 'KE.LLY'S RESTAURANT AND GRILL 51} 1-503 Hattie Street Schenectady Tel. DI6-5059 12 reb. Discover the World on Your SEMESTER AT SEA Sails each September & February Combine accredited study with educational stops in Africa, Aus- tralasia and the Orient. Over 7500 students .from 450 campuses have already experienced this interna- tional program. A wide range of financial aid is available. Write now for free catalog: t. . - ..... - -- WCA, Chapman College. Box CC40, Orange, Cal. 92666 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-~-~~~~~~~-· L-----~--~----~~~~--~~--~----~----~ J:,. ... -- '\\'' ............... \ - _,.. ...,..,. .. ~· - ,_- • ~ ,. - ·-· ... L'Oo • • ... -~ -00 .... ~ , .. L - - ~ •>' • - ... W .. .. L ,, .. - . -- ~ ___ ..... ~ .. .---~ ... ~· . Page 7 photo by Les---nrnan Union 60 Hartwick 72 Doyle 22 points 15 rebs. photo by Bill Erichsen .. Dave's Mens Shop 453 State St. HELP WANTED $100.00 weekly possible addressing mail for firms - Full and part time at home - Send stamped self-addressed envelope to HOME WORK OPPOR· TUNITIES, Box 566 Ruidoso owns, New Mexico 88346. LeVfS • Dave's~ Mens Shop 453 State St • (downtoWil Schenectady)

Page8 Friday. Fehruar,r 23, /973 Turkeys Avenge Earlier Loss To Garnet, 6 2-48 by B(LL KILLEN Arch rival RPI returned to the scene of an earlier 61-56 defeat in the Capital District Tournament, and this time • came away victorious as they defeated the Garnet hoop team 62-48 Tuesday night at the Fieldhouse. They also ended Union's three year upper hand in rhe series and marked the first time that Coach Gary Walters has lost to the Turkeys. It seemed that the Engineers had this game on the drawing boards for some time as they came prepared to handle what the Garnet do best. To attack the tight Union man-to-man, RPI ran a shuffling double high post offense, completely clearing out from underneath the basket. Time and again, the Dutchmen's overplaying on defense backfired as an Engineer would cut to the hoop off a pick or on the old back door play and an easy lay up .. would result. This method enabled RPI's Carey Dassatti to pick up 15 first half points and 23 for game-high honors. The game began well enough for Tom Combs, subbing for injured Tom Bacher, Geoff Walker, and Mike Doyle all victimizing RPI's 6' W\ center Jim Dunn for fouls in the first three and a half minutes. Doyle's offensive rebound and two free throws had Union ahead 4-3 at that point. But poor shooting victimized Union and they fell behind 22-12 only to pull back to 22-19 ott a Denio three point play off a thread~the-needle pass from Combs. Union's Charlie Gugliotta dril'es against R PI's Carey Dassatti in the Garnet's 62-48. loss to RPI Tuesday night. Gugliotta had 13 points for Union, hut Dassatti led both teams with 23. photo bv Bill Erichson Kelly's Shot Tips Gobblers by BILLY DeBEAR An off-balanced, hurried shot by Steve Kelly that swished through the nets with two seconds remaining brought the Union freshmen a hard fought 57;.56 victo.ry over RPI. ln what must be c0nsidered the most exciting ·finish of a game this season, the teams repeatedly traded baskets and leads before Kelly hit the clincher. Those who witnessed the opening minutes of t·he game saw a completely different Union team, one that had great difficulty penetrating the RPl defense while posing a porous one of its own. When the Engineers opened a 13- 5 lead after eleven minutes, it appeared that an early season 66- 62 loss to the Garnet would be avenged. Both of Union's big men, Jon Raymond and Ray Marcinowski, found themselves in early foul trouble which gave the visitors a decisive advantage, and a 25-17 lead with six first half minutes left. When Marcinowski incurred his fourth foul, Dave Viniar was inserted into the lineup and immediately led a Union rally. Viniar quick_ly scored to cut the deficit to six points, and then was instrumental · in two of three straight steals that culminated in a Brian Breton three point play and a mere 29~28 deficit. RPI tallied .the final basket of the half, but Union had shown signs of life and was definitely back in a game they bad seemed to be out of early in the evening. When the game resumed, Raymond promptly committed his. fourth foul. which was exactly what he was trying to avoid. However, Steve Kelly took control of the offense and . produced seventeen vital second half points. Scoring on strang drives to the basket. often off of the deft passes of Bill Henson, and on consistent· jumpers, Kelly tallied more th;;~.n half of the team's points in the second. stanza. ·. · • · '· But the pattern that emerged. throughout most .of the second half was one in which Union would creep within two or three points of the lead, but no closer. After nine minutes, Coppula also garnered his fourth personal foul and the prospects for a victory were again diminished, for RPI led 44-41 and the entire Union front line was in serious foul twuble. But, just when it appeared that tile Engineers might duplicate their early lead, Henson a.nd Kelly worked the back door play to stem the \rally and keep Union close. That was, however, three of the five points Union scored out of the backcourt all night and from that point on the Dutchmen could not keep close. RPI pulled to a 32-24 halftime margin and 36-26 threeminutes intothe second half. Then a five point play by RPI's Tom Juknis on a basket, technical on Coach Walters for voicing his opinion on the bloodletting occurring on the court, and another basket off the out of bounds play gave the visitors a 15 point lead. Union 66, Harpur 50 Garnet Swimmers Drop Two Meets The_ G~:~-rnet earned their first break of the night, when starting forward Harry McElroy was sent to the bench with five fouls, and the exasperated R,PI coach was hit with a technica:l for arguing the call too vehemently. After the technical was missed,- Henson proceded tQ spot Raymond wide open under fhe basket and when the center scored, Union trailed 5l-5Q. · 4we .. minute!>, Jat~r, Kelly converted a three pofnt play to give Union a 55-54 advantage, and when the Garnet regained control of the ball with I :21 remaining, Mark Glazer entered to help ·stall away the final minute. But, RPI elected to foul Breton who missed the shot, and after acquiring possession, Larry McElroy scored what seemed to be RPI's winning basket, with only 12 seconds remaining in the game. However, Kelly had saved the best part of his act for the dosing seconds. After a time out, Henson hit Kelly ctowncourt and the guard attempted to drive the baseline. When_ his path was bl0cked, he reversed direction, proceded to sink an incredibly difficult twelve footer, and draw a foul in the process. . Kelly purposely inissed the ensuing foul attempt to expire the final two seconds and give Union the win. Union's shooting hand was cold, and there was little they could do in the way of driving inside. RPI played their own tight man-to-man and again showed they were well prepared, as Doyle's man camped out in the lane conceding the outside shot to Mike while preventing the drive. But when Union began to press all over the court and Tom Bacher made a brief appearance, the Garnet forced several turnovers and battled back to 43- 36 with 9:02 left. . RPl managed to hold that seven point margin the rest of the way despite the hustling Union defense and added seven easy points in the last minute to up the winning margin to 62-48. Union's high scorer was Mike Doyle with 14 while Charlie Gugliotta came off the bench to add 13. Doyle also had 13 rebounds. Union shot a miserable 31% to RPI's 51%. The Garnet's last game cf the season is tomorrow night in the Fieldhouse against Pace. Don't miss the 6:00 PM preliminary as the Freshmen, led by Steve Kelly, go up against an amazing 1cast of Alumni headed by Mr. Amazing himself, Union's own Nate Archibald, Jim Tedisco. Box scores on Page 6 Getting a shot in the arm from hobbled Tom Bacher, the Union basketball squad overcame a 22- 14 deficit near the end of the first half, to knot the score. 26 all at halftime and went on to post a 66-50 victory over SUNY at Binghamton. Bacher, who scored 12 points in all, netted eight of them in the last five minutes of play in the opening stanza. Mike Doyle added 13 points for the Dutchmen, who avenged a buzzer shot loss two years ago in Coach Gary Walters' and the tri- c;;~.ptains' Union College debut. Bacher started the second half and along with freshman guard John Denio sparked the Garnet to a 39-34 lead over the Harpur team before his knee acted up again on him. Denio had 12 points in the game, seven assists, and seven steals, as the Union press forced 26 Harpur turnovers. Chuck Abba had 9 points, and Charlie Gugiliotta and tri-captain Geoff Walker added 7 !!piece as the Union basketball team posted its 50th victory in the last three years under the leadership of Coach Walters and the tri- captains, Bacher, Doyle, and Walker. Never before has Union won so many games over a three year span. The Dutchmen shot 29 for 70 as they advanced their record to 13-7 going into tomorrow night's finale against the Pace Setters. Harpur, which shot 22 of 56, saw its record drop below .500 to 8-9, but had the game;s high scorer, Bob Stein at 20 points; Bill Marian tossed in 16 for the Colonials. Union's swimming team spent a busy weekend last week, with a home meet on Friday afternoon against Kings College from Wilkes Barre, Pennsylvania and an away contest the following day against the University of Rochester. Though the mermen lost both meets (to Kings by a score of 63-47 and to Rochester by 62-45), times in most cases were once again improved in preparation for the Upper New York State Championships, which will take place next week. Against Kings, the 4xJOO yard medley relay team of Tom Richardson, Alex Bodenstab, Bruce Goldberg, and Tom Hough splashed its way to victory in 4:03.7. In the required diving event, record-breaker Bob Field was joined by freshman JohA Dowling, as the two swept the event, with Field scoring 136.10 points. The 200 breaststroke was won by Tom Burbank in a relatively slow time of 2:39.4, which was his initial win of the season. Field once again broke through in the optional diving, winning with 195.35 and being helped in another sweep by Mark Foster. The 4x 100 yard freestyle relay team of Tom Hough, Bruce Eggleston, Bruce Goldberg, and Alex Bodenstab raced to victory in 3:43.8. On Saturday, following a long bus ride (accompanying the- Dave's. Mens Shop 453 State St. victorious wrestling team), the team swam in perhaps the worst pool (excluding their own) that they will ever see. Even se, Bob Field once again took both diving events-- the required, hitting 132.50, and leading a sWeep (with .John Dowling again) with f73.50. In the 200 yard butterfly,Bruce Goldberg swam to an easy victory in 2:27.6. Tom Burbank took his second victory in tWo days by winning the 200 yard breaststroke, just nipping teammate Alex }3odenstab, with a time of 2:37.9. The only other Garnet victory came in the final event of the day, the 4x 100 freestyle relay, with Bruce Eggleston, Mark (Fog) Shulman, Tom Burbank, and Phil Mueller turning in a 3:50.2. As the team prepares for their championship meet, this year to be held at Canisius College in Buffalo, some of the swimmers will be swimming the last home meet of their careers at Union. Seniors Alex Bodenstab, Bruce Goldberg, Mark Shulman, and five-year man Tom Hough will make their final appearance in the Continued on Page 7 Coacli Scanlon felt that several of his play,~ers had sub-par evenings, but he was quick to point out the fact that everyone had kept the.ir composure throughout the tumultuous final minutes. Kelly, who rushed into the lockeroom to change for the varsity contest did not have the time to discuss or savor his 27 point game. His performance, which was truly outstanding, should, not take away from the fine play of other Garnet, notably Viniar and Coppula. The freshmen conclude their season tonight as they travel to Albany to tangle with the State J.V. for the second time in two Continued on Pa~e6 Before Saturday's Home Game Against PACE Come To M~offett' s Liquor Store and try one of. our fine wines We Have The Lowest Prices in New York State • t ( i . i \I I ' J ., A Gazt citec Law Fedc area go in goa« plan Libr $60( of E to Nixe OE< refu budJ Coli the mist Vv calli adja was to 1 fron Urbi to Und was to tl total sum Ho~ $2.3 avai Stat' like I requ char fun' org~ Dep of \1 the seeir furtl N. plan avai there the 1 gran goo< the,.: PJ that the addi with assu fund new stud• boo! spac libra chan has ofn thre addi Ac ope stu cat me leg ant SUI COl , .me , ·,AiJ ma Mi or Da ST dea

'· '• . : ·.~ I ' l ... . ·~ < f :,(' ~·~ ' ·~ ~ . 'i i .. ! ' ; - ·~: 3 ' ' ' ' ,1 i 'I ~ \ ;] I :; ' I f ' I I ' ( l : '·~ 'J l 1 ' ' ' ' founded at Union College in 1 ~77 Vol. 102, No. 34 Tuesday, February 27, 1973 20 cents Martin Refutes Gazette, Molley Was Not Forthcoming by .PHit ALCABES An article in the Schenectady Gazett~ of Friday; Fehruaty 9., cited a local a;~tip.overtcy worker, Lawrence Welsb.; as .saying that Federal budgetary cutbacks in areas on the domestic scene were .going t.o cost Union College a good part of the funding fqr the planned addition to Schaffer library. Welsh claimed that a $600,000 grant through the Office of Economic Opportunity was not to be forthcoming, since Mr. Nixon called for the abolition of OEO. President Harold C. Martin refuted the idea that Federal budgetary ·changes will cost the College part of the funding for the library, and clarified the misunderstanding. When the library addition, calling for four f1oors to be added adjacent to the· present structure, was proposed, the College applied to New York State for a grant from the Federal Housing and Urban Development Department to subsidize the construction. Under exi'st.ing guidelines, Union was entitled to apply for money to the extent of one-third vf the total cost of con:>truction; this sum came to about $600,000. However, last year only ·about $2.3 million in BUD funds was available for all of New York State, which indicated little likelihood of recetvmg the requested money. In addition, the channels for applying for such· funding include a state organization and then the Department in Washington, both of which would have to ap.prove the request. The probability of seeing the $600,000 was thus further diminished. Nixon's new revenue-sharing plans will eliminate HUD money available to the · state; it is therefore no longer possible for the College to obtain the Feaeral grant. Yet, the chances were not good anyway. Union never had the,.$(i00,000 to lose. President Martin emphasized that this will in no way imp~de the construction of the library addition: \We are going ahead with om~ plans, making no assumption at all about Federal funds.\ He sees the need for the new wing as tlireefold: increased student study space, increased book space, and increased work space for the operation of the libr.ary staff. The only major change from the original proposal has been to cut down the number of floors to be added from four to three. The current plan calls for additions to be made on the levels STAFF (Student-to-Teacher Action Fast Feedback) is now open for business, to deal with student academic problems . caused by poor instructional methods on the teacher's behalf. STAFF will handle legitimate complaints on an anonymous basis and transmit suggestions to the professors concerned; it is not another , -method of student evaluation. ' \ .$tudent with .a problem .may contact either Kathy· Mitchell, 107 North (370-2493) or AI McClelland, 321 Davidson (370-4561), a.nd. STAFF will determine if it can deal with it. of the p.resent basement, ground floor, and mezzanine; the fourth floor is not considered neces~ary and might make the cost of the project prohibitive. Were a fourth level to be added, according to the President; it would be of little use now, but would function if the size of the College were to increase in the next decade. Such an increase in population is not planned at this time. the decision to sc~ap the fourth level was made, importantly, before · H UD funds were even applied for. The architects formulated an estimate of the cost of the new wing with a fourth floor (at the level of the present second floor). When the bids came in from the builders, though, it was feund that a fourth floor made the project too expensive. At that time, before Federal f11nding was consid(;red, was the decision made to add only three levels. Whether or not, as Mr. Welsh indicated in the ·Gazette story, Federal budget reshuffling is costing Schenectady and V nion money will have no bearing on the fate of the library addition. Campus Dogs Harbor Disease JON MAI<.K by MITCHELL WEISBURGH Almost every student here at Union Coliege is aware of the presence of man's be!!t friend. Ample evidence of this fact is provided by the abundance of dog feces wherever one loo.ks. What most people do not realize is that these dogs a~.;e hosts fot: certain parasitic diseases which can be .passed on .to man. -Visceral lar:va rpigrans syndrome · is a prime example of such a disease. It usually occurs in small children between one and three years af age, who have a history of soil ingestion. These children develop this syndrome when they eat soil containing embryonated eggs from dog feces. Visceral larva migrans syndrome is characterized by enlargement of the liver, pulmonary complications, and hyper- eosinophilia.· As a project for his . Parasitology course last year, . Mike Busmari collected 16 fecal samples from all corners of the carv.pus, and tested them for parasitic content. Critical· examination of the samples revealed that six of the dogs, or 37 .5%. were parasitized with one or more .parasites. All six dogs were infected with Toxocara canis, which has been identified with over 150 cases of visceral larva migrans and has been traced to three deaths caused by larval destruction ·of nervous tissue in the human brain: The figures obtained at Union are dange.rously h'igh, for an incidence · of 7% infection is considered to be a hazard to the httman population. Two of the six dogs infected were found to have concurrent infections in addition to T. canis. One dog was found to also be parasitized with Dipylidium caninum (6.2%) and the other with Trichuris vulpis (6.2%). The definitive hosts of Dipylidium caninum are dogs, cats, and wild carnivores, although man occasionally is an abnormal but adequate host. Most infections occur in children under eight years of age and · about one-third are in infants under six months of ' age. Transmis'sion of the disease results from acciden.tal swallowing of infected fleas' from dogs, either · through the contamination of food,: by hand- to-mouth, or by a dog nipping an infected flea and then licking a . child's face. The picturesque and touching habit of adults and children kissing a canine should be discouraged. photo by Jeff Weilburg Mark .;_Almond The dog whipworm Trichuris vulpis can also be a hazard to the human popula:tion. It is exhibited throug·h symptoms of nervousness. Gets It Together Dr. Styles of the Union College Biology Department reported in 1971 that 73.4% of the dogs in Schenectady were infected with Toxocara canis, and 5% were infected with Dipylidium caninum. Though there have been very few reported cases of Visceral larva migrans syndrome, this :survey demonstrates that the present dog population on the Union College campus, and in the ~urrounding community, harbors a reservoir of infection. by ROBERT SHUGOLL The :key to a good live perf<Jrmance is togetherness. Often', of course; this :element is clearly estal>lished on a mixed studio LP, but too many times the live output doesn't stand up to the potential pointed to on records. Mark-Almond was quite together Saturday night in Memorial Chapel, putting on a delightfully smooth &how. The seven musicians complemented each other ex.tremely well, a small wonder considering that they've only played in their present fo~m for a month, Another surprise is Rebuilding the Ruin of Vietnam by BJLL T ALJS On Wednesday, February 2Stli at 1:00 P.M., Professors Dee Wernette and Norm ·walbek, ;:tnd Rev. James Murphy of St. Columba's Parish will hold an Americans Friends Service Meel:ing in Old Chapel. The AFSC is a non-partisan relief organization that is dedicated to aid people of war-torn Vietnam. A. film portraying the life and culture of the rural Vietnamese before the war will be presented. Steve Bedard-Parker, a 1972 Williams graduate and director of the uppe.r New York State AFSC, explains that the AFSC hopes to raise $1 million through fund- raising activities from campuses, churches, and communities. Steve stresses the differences between gov.ernment aid and people's aid io Vietnam after .the war. \Since 1963, massive numbers of people hav.e been moved from rural to urban areas. Saigon, for example, has increased from one half million people to about 4 million, and most are quite vulnerable to. ti)e Saigo,n government. A private organization such as the AFSC would .provide direct relief to peopie.\ Steve fears that a government . reconstruction program might serve American economic needs' more than the total needs of the Vietnamese. \The floating labor force of the cities offers great possibilities for corporation relocation. Corporations receivtng government aid are interested in financial returns and don't have concern for the best interests of the Vietnamese people.\ The AFSC has been .providing war relief !() all needy nations since World \Vat I. In Vietnam, the AFSC has provided artificial limbs for <:ivilians injured in the war and has financed the only civilian hospital in South Vietnam. lllte AFSC has also supplied penicillin to the National Liberation Front. lhe AFSC is similar to organizations such as Medical Aid to Indochina, which rebuilt the Bach-Mai civilian hospital after it was destroyed. Steve believes that government aid is important but there is a great demand for people's aid in addition to government aid. The great obstacle that the AFSC faces is in raising the necessary funds in order to carry out its operations. Union is one of fourteen upstate colleges called upon so ·that American may c~rre~t its .. rna ny i.t~ustices to the . Vtetnamese pe-ople and preserve a culture that has , been almost atmih!llated. . the quiet recogmtion they've received on American soil. In part this can probably be credited to their style, which is not dynamic or overpowering, and because they're from England which limits their availability in this country. The Mark-Almond Band, whose name refers to leaders Jon Mark and Johnny Almond, plays an indistinct b'rand of music closer to rock and roll than any other category. They work with an excellent blend and great variety of instruments, all of which are played by topnotch musicians. Displaying true finesse and mastery on saxophone, flute and organ, Johnny Almond can be considered the group's premier talent. But he certainly doesn't dominate the band which is a very tight unit, and you can't discount Jon Mark, a fine finger style guitarist, or their likewise enjoyable trumpet player, conga mand and drummer. The drummer, formerly with. Charles Mingus, employed a very unconventional style, playing games with d·ifferent sound combinations, which became particularly noticeable during a ten minute solo venture. Playing· rhythm guitar, an important but not very impressionable instrument, was Alun Davies who played with Cat Stevens for several years. The 80 minute set didn't get going till II :25, due to a late scheduled start and a cartoon festival_ which preceded the mu~>ic. _c;:on!inued on Page 2 Over 400 signatures have been collected on the petition to aid the extension of Scbaffer Library, but many more than 400 people inhabit this community. Please - students, faeulty, and others - sign the petition, which is located at the Circulation. Desk ·and will remain there until the Board of 'Jrustees in April. Let us see how many . members of the Union community can join together in t~is expression of sentimlnt. · •

Page2 CONCORDIENSIS, Tu('sday, February 27, 1973 Mark- Almond Well Received War With God: Part I· I Continued frmn Page ·t The group reached a low p()int on the first two songs, which thankfully wasn't matched for the rest of the evening. The band wasn't loose or fin~d up, the vocals were unimpressive,. as they .were all night, and, further, the vocal mikes were screwed up. But from song three en, everything came together and beautiful music kept flowing. The song that got Mark-Almond going was .. The City,\ a three year old tune and probably their best known. The long number sounded like a jam, yet the timing and unity of sound was too remarkable to be an unrehearsed number. Their music didn't build to fiery peaks bllt rather maintained a solid level of energy, keying at each moment on one of the instrumentalists while the vocal parts . held minimal importance and added nothing. In fact, the lead singer Jon Mark sheuld~ve kept his mouth closed completely. It was a shame to see h irn lower himself to respond vociferously to the obnoxious outbursts that always accompany Mem()rial Chapel concerts. The overall crowd response to Mark-Almond was enthusiastic, and deservingly so. PFeceding the music was a 15 minute cartoon set. Shown were the u·sual assortment of \good guys\ beating the shit out of ••bad guys,\ and most everybody gets off on cartoon violence. Forgetting this co11centration of violence in carto()ns, they do * * * Letter To the Editor: This letter is written in response to an item appearing in the \Blither\ ()f February 16, submitted by the IFC. We thank them for cordially informing us (\in case we didn't already kn.ow\). that we were in the midst of IFC weekend, and fur.thermore, that they were spollsoring a semi- formal ball by invil!ltion only. We are certain that .the conveyance of this informatil) n was of importance t() those who were not already aware of it. Esther Greene Andrea Casson Davis Heussler Lynn Brown Tom O'Connor provide fine visual stimulation and fantasy, a welcome addition to an .evening of good music. by DANIEL J·. VALENTI I walked in on hirn unannounced. I could see that something was bothering him. He was biting the ends of his hair, and~ had his hand forlornly placed on his forehead. He saw me and gazed in disbelief, then broke the Divine Miss M Melts The Ice by RIC LYNESS It was \freak-out city\ in Troy last Friday night as the \Divine Miss M\ rolled into RPl fieldhouse on the first leg of a tour that would take her to all the \tacky\ towns along the East Coast -and Troy. touted as ·~the armpit of the nation,\ has to be among the tackiest. Not only many first-timers came, but all the local \gar-bahgge'' had turned out in fuii force to support their cult-heroine in her rapidly accelerating bi.d toward superstardom - to be able to say \l experienced her on her way up.\ suffers from and generates as \the Divine Miss M.\ This lady is hot ~ she must have breathed several lifetimes of steam down in the \pits\ - the Continental Baths in NYC where she starte<;l her career performing mostly for gay clientele. Her onstage performance would seem to indicate that Miss M is embarked on some kind of .personal campaign to increase the entropy in the tmiverse. She frantically gyrates every muscle fiber of her sweet young body in an attempt to purge herself of a·ll her pent-up energies. Bringing the tour \farther uptown\ ·than she had ever been. and to play \a hockey rink at R.P .I.\ no less, Miss M was determined to melt the ice out from right beneath the -boards. And she did just about that. Many, ·if not most, people who entered the fieldhouse for the 8:00 show didn't know what to expect, but around 8:20, within moments after the house lights went out and the musicians were basking in the sensuous blue lighting Because they come out ••and . pay $2.50 and freeze their sweet onstage, a pervasive anxiety clearly indicated to the audience asses off' to see her do her stuff, that they could expect either \the Divine Miss M\ obligingly delivers. What the \trash\ want, something fantastic, or something fantastically rotten. Big Brother the \trash\ is gonna get. \And now here's a song from the dirty ... with the mellow voice quickly th t f'lth . f th f·r 1 · · d d h b k . a 1 y group rom e 1 1es ... mtro uce t e ac up group over th t b 1 h f b ·1 s · · · the P:A. system. Out come ·the ·- e, a u <;>us, ~- ·.a. u ?.us angn- .. H 1 tt. ,, - M\dl , \d' ,; las. And shes mto Leader of ar- e es - 1 er s trt - · . . the Pack.\ Or to the openmg a trashy tno of raven-hatred tarts t · f 'L R ll' dressed in black. A drum roll, the· s rams 0 eon usse s tension mounts - and now \the .. Superstar\ - \here's a song Divine Miss M.\ Everyone's made famous by ... \ and she clears craning his neck now. Enter Miss her throat, \Karen Carpenter and M idler, walking slowly, her brother Richard ... they're just hesitatingly - like a baby's first so- clea-n... Don't laugh, she steps- bedecked a'la 19,;tO's, with made it a hit... it's just her a_red·· rose-.in her nafr, ·a: childlike drumming that sucks.'1 smile on her face, and sweetly Miss M's show is camp through acknowledging the applause _ and through. The concert renditions of John Prine's \Hello the audience's acceptance of her. The lilting introduction of her in There\ and \Boogie Woogie Buzzy Linhart theme-song Bugle Boy\ were good but didn't reinforces the impression of sweet quite measure up to the quality little Bette, so innocent that produced on •'The Divine Miss butter would melt in her mouth. M\ album on Atlantic Records. Probably the most amazing But, as she energetically launches number of the evening was a real into the fast part of \Friends it becomes evident that the butter in show-stopper called \Your Love her mouth would melt not out of Keeps Lifting Me Higher\ in Bette's sweet innocence, but which Miss M works herself up to rather from the b't hl heat she an unbelievable frenzy. As the . 1 ':,. Y audience really gets ••hot\ she ___ ...., ____ iiii __ .... _......;;.- _____ ..,;,;,illlllliiiii..-llliiio'li&l sheds the bottom half of a form- CO'\CORDIENSIS fitting silver lame gown, though she is scantily attired underneath. Her red, red rose fell to the floor a few times during the number, but each time Miss M found an appropriate moment to restuff it carefully within her abun<lant cleavage. (~u~ded at Union College in 1877 .. . Editor-in-Cilief ......................... George !lain News Editor . . _ .......................... Tim Cain Managing Editors, .................... Rita Morandi Dave Strom • Features Editor .......................... AI Reisch Sports Editor ..................... Bruce ]3atchelder Photo Editors .......................... Les Kernan Jeff Weilburg Business Mana.ger .........•....... Michael J. Hurley National Advertising ........ ~ ......... Stephen Kelly Subscriptions ........ · ............... Mike Bernstein Contdbuting Editors ............... Peter Bickerman Louis S. Snitkoff Offi<:e Staff Phil Alcabcs Doug Carpenter Gary Lovett lllyria Puharich l);w Rothblum Robin Waring Bill West oncord ens1s 1' pullhs 1~d <'l<:r~ I tic•,d,l) and hida) duriill,! th<' ,dwnl )~ar \'\\·PI dunn); <\..llllinilllnll and \HCalu>n l'<'rtnJ, h) the >tll<knl hnd) <>I l 111nn Cnllqr,·. ~dlcn.:ct.~~J). '\ Y 'al1onal .ld\~lli>lll!! l<'('l'<\'<'lllalil<'. \~thmal I-ducll!l<>nal \d1~1ti\n~ Sct:li.:c·. Ill<:. (\>llc)!c' l'uhli~hL'r' R<'lli<''L'Iltall\~. ~·<ttllillal l'dm.ltlllll<ll o\dl~rtiW1!! S~r\I<\L'. itw .. '\.).C. I dtt<llt.<l Oll1c~- Old (i~nl. l'ninn (',>11~~.:. I'Lthhcallnn Ollic:c:. lh,· .1~1\l'h \\,Hid l'uhlicatllln'. 771 Still<\ Slrc:cl. Scht•n.:.:l.ld\. '.;.Y. 12JO'. J+6-2J~h. llllL'I\l·d Ill lilt' s ... h,·n~<\lillh . post office a\ Sc-c<tlld ·CI;t\ Mail \1ull.:r.~tlh\•riptu>n ~tl .:cnh il .:op~ .SX a ll'i;l dcli1crcd ill!\ wlier~ in ·the l 'mtcd Stale,. Deadline i·or all·cop). 111lich rnltsl he: t) pt•d und dnuhic-,pa.:cd. \ 7 r.m. ••n Mnnday and Fhursda) at th.: Concord~ tlllleL' .. a hole Old Chapd. Offic~ tclcphnncllunlhcr.l:-. .170-6155. hut thc ullicc j, nnl~ 1nu~e on \1ond.t~ a lid I hursda~ night,.. h>r all cditnrml lllilllcr~. call till' cditor-1n-ch1l'l at WJ- IMO: lor mtonh<t!ll>n call Student o\rlilitl<.:' Oil in· .11 .P0-!111}( In the end, one can reasonnably conclude that Midler is extremely versatile. She is not only a fine singer but an even bette< performer. She possesses a rare ability to relate and interpret yesterday's songs for today's audience and make each one uniquely her own. Listen to her album or, preferably catch her the next time around at a live concert. But if you can't do either, catch a glimpse of her on the Burt Bacharach special at 10:00 p.m. on Wednesday night over ABC. <Q>eq.....,..~~ . All student car owners whose license numbers have changed with the advent of a new year should report to the Security Office and reco.rd the change on their registration forms. * * * * tevrs Dave's· Mens Shop 453 State St. (downtown Schenectady) sdence. ••You dare show your face up here? After what you've· ·done?\ Playing the fool, but secretly . sharpening my tongue and popping a Lifesaver in my mouth (being a bitch goes best with clean breath), I said in mock innocence ••rm sure l don't know what you mean.\ His veice rose. \You know damn well what I'm . talking about. That article - (in derision) 'War with God..' Do you know what is going to happen to you for this. Such a mdckery, such an attack on my holiness; such an 0utragel Besides; from what I hear, it was even pooily written. You pretentious scoundrel; I need but snap my fingers and a host of angels shall de.scend on a fiery chariot and pluck out ~\ I let the hurt little man go no further. \Now just you hold on a sec fella.\ 1 was feeling my Lifesaver like needles by now. \You can't hurt me. You ·can't even scare me. You are an empty shell.\ I could see him fidget. \I give the orders now. Got it?\ He had made a fatal mistake when he told me that he hadn't actuaHy read the article. From that point I knew 1 had him ... Let me ask you something straight. Did you read it yourself?\ A pause. \No.\ \Ah- haa\ I laughed. I knew that if I could make him hear even a sentence of it, he would not survive. By now he had become extremely defensive. You know, I even felt somewhat sorry for him. ··But why was it written so aloofly; so vague - uh - so sterile?\ \By design, friend, by design. l have even set you up with my scientism. Prepare to drink your fate as I ordain it.\ o This broke him. He ran for the bathroom, went in, and locked the door. I called. N.o reply. \My grandparents never took a sex- course, but, here I am! You can't escape!\ l kicked open the door. He stood in the corner, shivering. I reached into my pocket, and pulled out a copy of the article. It was as if I had pulled out a .45 automatic and held if to liis head. \Now I requested politely, \please repeat after me. •The idea of God is just an idea.\' This did it. He began choking. He grabbed his throat. \Wine... bread... I must have bread ... you shall be sorry... it is for me to command .. .'' I went to the kitchen and came back with a bottle of vinegar, which I offered to him. But he fell with a thud (carpeting in a bathroom will do that to a noise). I had killed God. The throne was mine . That was last Friday night. Since then, I have been ruling the orbs, conttolllng destiny. The next day, Saturday, I saw a priest on State Street wearing his cassock half-mast. I had succeeded. Since then, I have found out something. A real truth. Being God is no fun. I. mean, its okay and everything, but its not Fun. The worst thing about the position is you cannot die .. You can only be jack-in-the-box crucified. You really have- no future. You only have your memories; only dull grim beauty of what has passed. Even the throne is a disappointment. Its simply a plain ugly old chair. Undoubtedly stolen from Fox lounge. There's a cigarette burn ********** WRUC Program Notes Tuesday 9-lO p.m. George Lipsky's \Performing Live~· featuring Bob Field. Wednesday 9-lO p.m. Chuck Rothman with New Albums featuring \History of SmaU Faces,\ \History of the Grateful Dead.\ Monday, Wednesday, ·and Friday 9-10 a.m. Don Kaplan Monday-Thursday 2-4 a.m. Lee Lensky ''Early Morning Music.\ Monday-Friday 6-7 p.m. Chris Fink \Music to Munch By.\ Sunday 10 a.m.-noon Footsteps \The Hangover Show.\ on ~he right arm and a wad of used Bazooka gum under the left. It'll have to do. Well, at the first chan~e) called ' home and told my parents what ~lad happened. They had 'already heard of it on Channel ten's ••Action News.\ Ron Smith had done me justice. \He wi'll be rewarded,\ 1 remember saying to myself. Getting back to Mom and Dad, they were, understandably enough, quite proud of their Son. I mean, it had advantages for · th.em also. Well, just an .examp1e ~ I promised them -+hat if they went to any Bingo games, I would see to it they'd win. And win big . At their first opportunity, they went out and changed their names to Mary and Joseph. Not bad, eh? They promised to send me a . ~care'' package with a crown of thorns and three nails. I would have to supply my own lumber. l argued for four nails, but they assured me that one would hold down two feet. (fm not a math major.) For the first time in a while, I felt important. Hell, I was important. But now, I am being sought out for parties every night - it gets a little rough. I mean._ not only do 1 have to run the universe, but I have to get through a lot of Hemingway before Wednesday. There's a paper due. At one point, l was going to call a news conference and announce that I would only appear for a fee. Fifty bills slipped under my door would do the trick. But n(). Keep quiet I'd better. Twere better not to breath or speak ' Than·. to cry for strength, remaining Weak, and seem to find But still to seek. I tried once to pray. I fell to my knees, eyes uplifted, asking heaven to hear. But 1 stupped: · ~q·• \Hey THAT'S ME!\ By next week, l shall have grown tired of the position. In my next \War with God,\ we, that--is . !UYSeJf and rny .beloved readers, in whom I am well pleased, will begin the serious problem of getting a new figurehead for the position. If you would like to nominate anyone for God, send the name, along with your reason(s) why ·to Box 987, Union College. The name nominated the most times, or the name that is nominated with the best reason will be the winner. Prize will be one whole swig. out of my own bottle of \Leroux's Mystically Flavored Brandy.'; (One drink of this stuff, and :you too, can become Got~shit, the.spe!ling ~- 1 mean \God\.)- In any case; my decision is finaL Remember, 1 ain Valenti, upqn whose rock this whole absurd business is bl!ilt. I . will remain with you forever and ·ever. Amen. Or for at least the next ten minutes. P.S. - I must do one more thing. I have promised certain people the mystery of life. It is much too overwhelming to reveal . all at once. But I will give you the, main component of the Secret, which, once you become armed . with it, will make the rest of the picture fall into place. First, 1 wishing to know the Secret automatically assumes that one is deficient, and that his deficiency causes - oh, what is the word ~ depression. When you feel this way, repeat this one sentence: ••t have met the enemy,, and I AM l'r.\ ~~~·~~~~~~~ FOR LIQUOR AND WINE Try § Jake ~ Lipstein's ~ 464 Stat~ Street § g. FR4wl888. ~ ~~·<.O'>~<Q>,q-. •. el There 1977 tonight and are Denise need pictures The l·nterna1 Music. Schenec College Wind ( Sa turd~ P.M. :i additio1 Barber, by thl Dreyfw didjerid note he by anA The 1 branch holiOWf exam pi the et Schem quintet Cubbin oboe; bassoo1 horn; a A fe per hap are ava in Stol Any4 the Fin March Barb ( Perlste possibl F The Bergm A me ric film in an Ar goes •tc an imr m a c woma1 marria brings life 2 forces beings The acting some red em direct< Da Tl La

'l CONCORDIENSJS Tuesday, Fehruary 27, 1'973 • 1 - . ~ - . --- . . Page3 There was a Freshman Recor~ 1977 organiz~ttional meeting tonight at 7:30. If you missed it and are,interested in. working, call Denise Ruthenberg, 346-9220. We need photographers and/ or pictures. - . . '*. * \* * The~· fo~rth concert in the International Festiv:H of Chamber Music. sponsored by the Schenectady Museum and Union College will feature the ·Adelaide Wind Quintet from Australia on Saturday, March lOth, at 8:30 P.M. :in Memorial Chapel. ln addition t~ works by Reicha, Barber, and H.indemith, a se;tetet by the Australia,n composer, Dreyfus, will feature the primitive didjeridu, a si~-foot long two- note hOrn which will be played by an Australian ~borigine. · The didjeridti is made from the branch of a tree which has been hollowed out by termites, an example of which is contained in the ethnic collections of the Schenectady Museum. The quintet is made up of David Cubbin, flute; Jiri Tancibudik; oboe; Thomas Wightman, bassoon; Patrick Brislan, French horn; and Gabor Reeves, clarin~t. * * * * A few copies of the first (and perhaps only) issue of 'Perspective are available in Mrs. Reid's office in Stoller Hall. * * * * Anyone interested in playing at the Finals Freebie Coffeehouse on March 9, please contact either Barb Carabell (346-9935) or John Perlstein (370-4228) as soon as possible. * * * * Films on The Touch Ingmar Bergman's first film for an American producer and his first film in English. The story is about an American archaeologist who goes •tp; Sweden and discover.s (l) an immured statue of a madonna in a church; and (2) a Swedish woman, immured in a zestless marriage, lpnging for life. He brings both into the· sunshine of life and activates destructive forces which eat away at their beings. The story is fascinating, but the acting of Elliot Gould proves that some things are beyond redemption even by a great director. Wednesday, February Levrs Dave's Mens Shop 453 State St. (downtown ScheneCtady) .PR.OCtOR'S Wi.'Jl~ STATE ST.. SCHENECTADY. NOW PLAYING The . Life and Times of Judge Roy Bean STARRING PAU./. NF:WMAN Coming Soon Lady Sings the ·Blues « - - B.LlTHER. Gatesmen applicati(;ms ar:e .now avaHable at the Admissions Office. They may be p\icked up at any time during the day 1 Monday through Friday. Applications must be completed and returned by March 13. * * * * The Coffeehouse will present 'Dave Kiphuth, a veteran .of the New Haven folk circuit, and Union. favOFite Bob Ruggieri on Friday night, March 2, at 8:3.0 in Old :Chapel. Admission will a15ain be only 50¢ and, as usual, coffee and doughnuts will be free, so drop by .for the last regular Coffeehouse of the term. * * * * Richard Jackson, editor, and Michael Panori, co-editor, of The Poetry Miscellany, will read their own poems in the Music Room of Schaffer Library, Wednesday, FebruaTy 28, at 8 P.M. Refreshments. * * * * New York Times reporter Neil Sheehan, one of the principals in the publication of the \Pentagon Papers,\ will speak at Union College on Thursday, March L The talk is set for 8 P.M. in Memoriltl Chapel, and is open free to the public. · Sheehan joined the limes in 1964 after a stint as bureau chief for United Press International in Vietnam. He now is assigned to ' the newspaper's Washington bureau, where he was the journalist to break the \Pentagon Papers\ story. Campus 28, 2:30 p.m. SSOI6. Lab fee. course. Johnny Got His Gun - An adaptation by Dalton Trumbo of his controversial anti-war novel. The film traces the protagonist's journey from vegetable (all his limbs and his face have be¢n blasted away in World War 1) to prophet. Stars Jason Robards Jr., · Donald,Suther.lancl;. a.nd Timothy Bottoms. Saturday and Sunday, March 3 & 4, 7:00, 9:00, & H:OO p.m. SSOI6, Film Haps. Admission $1.00. Contempt J ean-Luc Godard's film, based on an Alberto Moravia novel, which deals with a group of movie people making a film of Ulysses. It is rather untypical of Godard. Incomprehensibility is not its virtue (which perhaps helps explain why the anarchic Frenchman disowned it). Monday, March 5, 2:30 p.m. SSOI6. Lab fee course. Maidstone - Nprman Mailer's very own film. Wa.cky, suburbanly erotic, it tells how Norman Kingsley (played by Mailer) plans to be President of the U.S. Not at all slick, but moving and disturbing. Wednesday, March 7; 2:30 p.m. SSOI6. Lab fee course. ·······~·······~ = ·J·Av·· : . - - . •- Billiard· • • • 1 Lounge 1 I 167\Jay St I • -RELAX- II •• • • PLAY POOL • • • • • Daily 10-10 p.m. I· • . Sunday 2-8 p.m. . •. •••••••••••••••••• I Brothers Ill I ' I I I SPECIAL tA lb. Roast Beef French Fries Draft Beer· $1.25 Cheese &'peanuts avaNable at all times. - - -- I t I ' t Vita is moving its headquart~rs from Schenectady. to. Washington, D.C. and volunteers are needed to help pack and move. This will be done on Mat:ch 12, 13, &-nd 14. Anyone inter:ested should contact Jerri Forlenza at 374-3581. .. * * * * \The Professor As A Scholar\ series . will present Professor Robert Wells (history) and Professor Howard Berthold·· (psychology) on Wednesday, February 28 at 7:30 in Hale Hohse Student Lounge. They will discuss their re:>earch and how it relates to their role as teachers. Refreshments will definitely be serVed. * * * * Tickets are available now for Moonchildren, the Mountebanks' latest .piece of peanut-buHer-and- poppycock-phoolery, which will be brightening up yeur winter evenings from Thursday through Saturday, March l-4, beginning at 8 p.m. in Nott Memorial Theater. Den't be left out in the cold·! Reserve your tickets now. They're free for Union students and $2.00 for nonstudents. The box office is open daily after I P.M. Come on over, or phone 370-6153. * * * * Hillel Shahbat Services every Three of Union's contenders to the state wrestling competition, Mark Zullo, Bruce Freeman, and Tom Friday night at 7:30 in Arts 202. El'(•refl. photo by Sill Erichson Services are student-organized w ,, • and studen. t*-led*. A*ll a*r.e welcome. . r·e.s· t. ·In· g were .eliminated in the preliminaries and thus, from the Remember - PYE meeting C . . _ consolation bracket. Freshman Wednesday night, · 7:00 in the . ontmued f!9m Page 4 __ Greg Lyons dropped his second basement of the infirmary. New ~!so suffered the same fate, when round bout, but was. able to members are welcome. m . t.he next round he was advance through the consolation * * * * declSloned 8-1, by a wrestler he bracket and take fifth place. Track hacl defeated early in the season. Howard Benedict remained Again fate brought the two top then, the only undefeated seeded wrestlers in the same wrestler; with a record of 14 wins consolation bracket, and then and 2 draws. Asked after his Continued from Page 4 battled for 4th place, with Everett victorious final match as to defeat· Roch~ster 1 s Ron Parry_ by ·losing by a dose 6-5 d.edsion._ H,e whether he deserved to be called two seconds. The 100'0 proved to won his next match and placed \Champ\ he humbly replied, \I be a close battle in which co- 5th. have had some breaks. Someone captain Greg Hamlin's sprint to Senior Gary Gurney, followed up there must be taking care of the tape just fell short of Neill of by .Jeff White ;tnd Steve Schutzer, me. You know I'm just a bum.\ Cortland. ' · , - · · . ' : r White and McCabe returned to Em m ' H combine with Freddie Pressley . • . . a us ·. ous e and Dave Ricks to defeat both U .of R and Cortland, respectively, I t • • in the eight lap (mile) relay. The . n er·v· •I e·wl·n· -g four Dutchmen joined forces to turn in a 3:40.9 winning time Rev. Austin Ford, director ot . leaving Rochester to cross the Emmaus House in Atlanta, Ga., receive room and board and finish line three seconds later. will be o.n campus Friday, March twenty-five dollars a week. Super soph Bill \Muscle\ 2. and Saturday, March 3 , to Union students have been Mowery wort the shot put with a interview students who are employed at Emmaus House for toss of 48' 7Yz\ over two feet interested in summer employment several years now, and the better than that of the second as staff members of Emmaus exchange has been mutually place Cortland Weightman. House. beneficial. Students· on campus But it was. Dave Ricks to whom Emmaus House is a community who have worked one or more co-captain Tim McCabe awarded center in the ghetto of Atlanta. summers in Atlanta include Steve the \game ball.\ Ricks passed There are many programs that Spellman, Virginia Lyle, Frank until 13' in the pole vault and run through Emmaus House, Isler, Aaron Clendenon, Tom cleared the height on his first including a food co-op, a poverty Rembetski, Rita Fishman, and jump. He then passed at 13'6\ in rights office, three children•s Fran Coolidge. order to join the mile relay team programs, a baby-feeding There will be a luncheon on aiming for a needed win. When he program, and numerous political Friday afternoon with Fr. Ford returned to the pole vault pit he programs.. Staff members take for all interested parites. failed on his three attempts to part to some degree in all of Interviews will be held on Friday clear 13'9\. However, by that these, but their m aj 0 r afternoon and Saturday morning. time, the first place in the mile responsibility is in the children's Anyone interested in applying relay and his third place in the programs. Transportation to and should contact either Steve pole vault were all that were from Atlanta will be provided for Spellman at 393-8130, or Virginia needed for the one point victory those students who are selected. Lyle at 370-6125, or Fr. Murphy over Cortland. In addition to this, they· will at 3 77 - 8559 · Next week, the Dutchman travel to Cortland for the annual Invitational there. Ho\\ever, the Garnet will be minus senior Tim McCabe, who will be at Princeton University competing in the 1C4A meet. .Levrs • Dave's· Mens Shop 453 State St. ·(downtown Schenectady) ·Purity Isabella s ta\ ';&'ri' ;;,_ \SJ I=>HAt<I\'IM.v I ..... INC '!l Accuracy ~ 527 Union St: § Schenectady N.Y. ~ Ph. 370-2300 § WELCOME § &. UNION STUDENTS ' b-.<0>~'-0~t.(;n<Q><.Q>~ / / HECK'S MOHAWK MALL 370-0824 • Travel Bureau 151 Barrett St. 346-3431 No Service Charge LSAT PREPARATION THE LAW BOARD REVIEW CENTER OF ALBANY The Law Board Review Center wlll be offering intensive review sessions in preparation for the Law School Admission Test taught by professionals r • .t the Howard Johnson's in Latham. Enrollment is now open for the April 14 LSAT. Review sessions begin March 24. Call or write for details. 8 Pine Street, Glens Falls 12801 (518) 793-6631

Page 4 Tuesday, Februm:v 27, 1973 Varsity Netmen Destroy Pace; Finish At 14-7 Geoff Walker, the leading scorer in the last game of the season vl'ith 19 points. · by MA.RK W. MINDEL Union's defense-minded basketball team throttled its final opponent of the season Saturday, and aided by early balanced scoring, easily trounced a disheartened Pace five, 66-47. The Dutchmen, plagued with injuries throughout a tough season, never gave up and finished with an impressive 14-7 record. Tom Bacher~ whose injured knee hampered his play, started his last Union contest along with fellow senior tri-captains Geoff Walker and Mike Doyle. Along with the 6'3\ frontline were junior Chuck Abba and freshman John Denio. The starting five hopped to a quick 16-4lead as each of the players hit for at least one score, then with II :33 left an Abba 15 footer raised the lead to 24-6. At this point, Bacher, Denio, and . Abba had 6 points each, while Walker had 4 and Doyle, 2. Union's patented pressure defense continued and the Dutchmen opened to a 34-181ead on a Chuck Abba twenty footer with 4:21 left. Union held on for a 38-25 lead at the half. The visitors took up the pace at the start of the second half and closed the lead to 38-29. But with the score 44-33 Union, the Garnet went on a scoring binge, thanks to six straight lay-ups, and outscored the Setters, 19-5 for a photo by Les Kernan 61-38 Jead with 4:40 left. Soon after, at 4:21, Walters substituted for DUer Walker and Chi Psi roommates Bacher and Doyle, and three illustrious careers seemed sealed with a well- deserved ovation. However, as Pace closed the gap with eight straight points and cries for the three to encure grew louder, Walters sent the trio back in with 0:23 on the cloc~, reminiscent of a similar move last year. · Doyle hit a foul shot with twelve seconds left for his 880th career point. But the closing play of the game and year for Union was a perfect career finish for the three graduating stars. As the ball popped free of the rim on Doyle's missed second attempt, Walker tapped it back to Mike, who head faked a jumpshot and hit Bacher underneath for a pretty two pointer. Bacher'~ hoop was good for hjs 860 and 861 st career points. Walker finished up with 679 points, thanks to a fi.ne 19 point final game. Chuck Abba had 15 points most on a hot-shooting 70% performance from the field. Denio and Bacher hall 10 each, while Doyle added 7. The win was Union's 51st in the last three years, compared to only thirteen losses~ over the same period. LUIGI'S RESTAURANT SPECIALIZING IN Italian -American Food 1125 BARRETT ST~ SCHENECTADY 016-9744 · J:.:njoy Sizzling Steaks and Chop.fl Visit Our Cocktail Bar Union, still in consideration fm an. ECAC bid, finished the year With an incredible 58.4 point per game defensive average. Offensively, the team was extremely balanced, led by Tom Bacher's 12.6 scoring average. Doyle hit for 12.2 per game, Walker I L 7, Abba 9.9, Denio 6.9, Combs, who came on strong at the end, 5,8, and Charlie Gugliotta 4.6 .. Doyle led in six offensive categories including p0iots scored, assists, rebounds, free throws attempted and made, and games played. Bacher led in field goals made and shooting percentage, while Tom Combs led in free throw percentage. Abba and Walker tied with Doyle for playing in the most .games, all three playing every single game. With thoughts of next year set aside, the Garnet's 51-13 record over the past seasons was gayly · celebrated Saturday night at Chi Psi. Paca Union G F T G FT Sekowskl ' 4 0 8 Doyle 3 1 7 Bosche 1 .0 2 Bacher 5 tno ardner 5 0 10 Wolker 6 7 19 Kelly 4 2. 10 Abila 7 1 15' Rowinski ~ (112 Qenio 5 0 10 McMullen 1 0 2 Combs 0 1 1 Reardon 1 I) 2 Gugliotta 2 0 4 Craig 0 1 1 T.otals 22 3 47 Totals, ~8 10 ¥ W·inter Track by ALISON SLOAT This Saturday · the Garnet thinclads returned to Rochester to compete in the U of R IrY!ta~i~nal. Norinally, tqe 440 y:p dash and the 880 yd run are strictly outdoor track events, but Rochester had decided to include both in their indoor festival. It would be an understatement to say that the Union team is just healthy in the middle distances. These two added events just gave Union points on points. When the points were totalled, Union held 47 of them, just enough to nip second place Cortland by one point. Host U of R was out of sight with 38'lS points to finish thi~. . From the middle distances alone the Dutchmen came away with three firsts and a close second. Senior Tim McCabe set a new meet record in the 600 crossing the line in I: 15.1, Dave White beat Cortland's Jim Murphy, a former Guilderland sprinter, to take the 440 with a 0:53.7 clocking. Reliable Mark \Minner\ Mindel came in with a 1.:59. 7 time in the 880 to solidly Continued on Page 3 Dave While, winner ~r the 440 and n-iember of th.e winning mile relay .team. at .the U R lnvitdtional n1eet. . photo by Bill Erichson · Frosh .Stop. Alba JV And J~mmy T by LOUIS BARASH . 011 Friday night, the Union Freshmen Basketl>all team· travelled to Albany to complete a home-and-home series with the Albany State J. V. The \Great Dane Pups\ ha,d earH~r suffered a pefeat to the Garnet at Union. · =' ;. - Union won 72·54. Albany st~rted off quickly, and if not for .Ray Marcinowski who scored Union 1 s first 9 pointS; might have jumped to a large lead.. ·, ·· State was led by Harold Merrit, a strong 6-5 center~ Merrit controlled the boards and penetrated .for layups and short jumpers. In all, he had fifteen points in the first half, Meanwhile~ the Union offense was having trouble getting un-tracked, and only the hot shooting ef Steve Kelly kept them in the game. The half ended with the score tied at 33. · At the start of the second half, in an attempt to curtail Merrit; Dave Viniat was inserted. He quickly drew two fouls as he was trying to push the big center away from the basket, but the job of intimid1;1tion worked as Merrit onlY scored two points in the second half. Meanwhile, the offense started to click. Brian Breton, who came into the game to cover Albany's top guard Jim Eisenman, had ten points, as did Mark Gillum. The team effort produced a lopsided second half, in which Albany could only muster 21 points and was outscored by 18. Friday night's game was the .last in a fine season for the frosh. ' The win gave them a final record of !6-1, the lone defeat coming to Hartwick on the road. [· Saturday night the freshmen took the floor for one last time in ~·- •.·. · the annual freshman-alumni game. The freshmen suffered quit~ a .· ·: · ' . scare, as the alumni~s Jimmy Tedisco put on quite a show. The \. · .. · fr~shmen did. not seem to be too worried about the game as they substituted freely (they platooned two different five ;man teamsJ. But it would have taken an army to stop Tedisco. Even though he 1 appeared to be. slightly out of shape, he ran the team, hit several 1 shots outside of 'thirty feet, led the fast break, and put o.n some 1 moves that one would expect only of J.T. His thirteen points in the j .. first half put the alumni up 'at the half. But,eve.n though he was just as incredible in the second stanza he co1Jld not k~ep it up the 'whole way. The freshmen eventually prevailed l;>ut tli.e ·outcome ·seemed quite irrelevant compared to the fun that was had all around. Howie Fir-st, ln State; Team 5th by FR.i\N C~SCO ISGRO . ~ ~ ... .. ,.(, ... . .. ' ' ' 1. ! I. Howard Benedict, .. the lean, mean machine at 215\ (as he characterized himself in a recent interview with Bill Arsenault, Sports Editor of the Times Union),. was crowned New York State Champ in the heavyweight division for the second consecutive year' by pinning his fimd opponent, Rudy Vido of Alb1my State, in 3':34. advance~ br taking a 6-5 decisio.n \· and· a pm m · 4:25. . He lost hts \ next bout I 0-2, but came right i back in the next round and 1 pinned the ·6th se~ded grappler in 'i 1 3:07 to capture 5th place. Freeman. who boosted one of the f ·; team's best record wasn't even 1 · The fourth annual New York State 1 ntercollegiate Wrestling Championship, held at Rochester Institute of Technology, attracted 16 teams, and the Garnet grapplers placed well ahead of II of them. After the first and second round of the tourney, things looked dim for the Union team. Only three wrestlers remained unbeaten: Zul,lo at 118 lb., Everett at 150 lb., and Benedict in the Heavyweight class. Zullo advanced by pinning his first opponent in 3:48 and decisioning the second 13-7. In the semifinals, Zullo, dropped a 14-4 decision to the second seeded wrestler in his bracket, and along with Everett., who was decisioned 8-1, fell in the consolation bracket. It was there, that the young Garnet team put up an outstanding effort, and picked up some valuable team . points. Zullo decisioned his next foe, but then dropped a close 7-5 bout, and ended up 4th. Freeman seeded. He' dropped his first bout \ · .. ·· to Doug Rutter, who was voted 1 the most outstanding wrestler of 1· ,~ the tournament. I· · :\'\ Freshman Andre Paquette I ; \4 advanc~d in the second rou.nd by \ . f{ a forfe1t but was defeated m the ,13 quarter finals. He then advanced ·' l '~ in the consolation bracket by ., taking two wins, and fought for ,j 5th place, which he lost in over ' :·-: time 8-2. ! . The 142 pounder; Scott Media, ,, took an 8-4 decision in the first round, but dropped his next two matches. His first loss was inflicted by the eventual champion of his weight class. Freshman Tom Everett, who was seeded second, became the favorite to take his weight class when the top seeded grappler was upset in the second rourid. But he Continued on Page 3 LeVfS Dave's. Mens Shop 453 State St. 4downtown Schenectady) · BOULEVARD BOWL 1315 Erie Blvd. 40 AMF BOWLING LANES 374-4171 ' Bow! for Health - Vo - Pt. Th Colle Presi immt Prov Th Adm rang1 Dep1 resp< a cad D1 l.od Col11 and Deg1 Mas Uni' by Wh1 Is corr out'! stud en ''Grow world never it is r that i collegt trying Micha altern: with l obvio accept of est they r Ret it slo.• peoph thrOUJ stude1 back thems Mike hand can.n t-hey < a wa• stuffe~ the .p respo Tht rebel! prcve from other way. one a With the ~ Co.Jl Rl o.( incid1

