' .' &1 • ~) !}) ~ ' f 1~ ' Indeed l tremble for my country when I reflect that G,od is just.-·.· T.-Jefferson Vol. 103, No. 9 · CONCORDY~· Our \To sin bv silence when they should protest makes cowards of men.\ (A. Lincoln) Silence also leads to uncontrollable malaise, ·for only when. problems are verbalized do Phey suddenly become tangible, and. consequently, s.6lvable. When unhappiness remains smoldering. when questions remain unanswered; situations seem overwhelming and solutions remain hidden. Concordy's goal this term is to serve as a sounding board for all .students; COJ:Tlnients and cdticisms Wi)l be rteard, questions Will try to be matched with answers. Conc~rdy is Union's paper, and since there are many different types of students at Union. many different 0pinions wiH he expressed. We .are not here'to pass on the \mling dite's opinion\ of what is wrong with this school ;:tnd hoW things shou'ld he changed. Rather. we are here to learn about Union from those Who know it best, the students. aH the students. Since Concordy's editors are not goin:g to pretend to represent and '\understand\ all the students on camptts, a large, active staff is needed. in which each member will help contribute to the understanding of Union as a community. I:f students do not share their opinions with others. if nightmares and dreams are not made PB-bli9, then they can never be prevented or fulfilled. No o.ne can help the \silent majority\''.if no one even knows where to find it. the editors Thursday, January 31, 1974 President Harold Martin Presidential Search Progresses by PFfYLLIS EDELMAN Three c&:ndidates applying fo( the position of President of Union College have been brought onto campus· during the past month. upon recommendation of the Presidential Search Campus Advisory Committee. These candidates <Jpenly met with students, faculty~ and administrators on campus. This is. one of the final steps in the procedure set up by the Committee in charge of finding a new President for the Colle-ge to repla~e President Harold C. Ma.rtin who retires this June. Dean. Lichterman, one of the members of the Comtnittee, described its working procedure. He explained that approximately 250 folders containing applicants' credentials and letters of recom- mendation were screened hv the Committee membt;rs. Applfcants were judged on the basis of their strengtlu in Hve areas.. These included the candidates• abilities )n the field of fund~raising; on- campus leadership, including setting the academic tone and sense of di,rection of the College; managerial and administrative experience: and his public appearance at ceremonial affairs and with the constituencies· both inside and outside the College. Most of the nominees. according to Dean Lichterman, were recommended by '\distinguished leaders of other institutions. The Dean said that the \quality of Union was demonstrated by the kinds of names sent to us\ from other members of Academia. \The kinds of people recommended to Union looked very, very good.\ Nott Facelift A completed \histor.ic structure report\ sets the cost of repairing and remodeling N ott Memorial at an estimated $1,546,000. Funds for the 150-page study were provided by the Board of Trustees and the Alumni Council. lhe report was submitted to the Trustees by President Harold C. Marti.n, Who suggested' that it provided the information the hoard would. need to make basic decisions about the ~;entury-old structut:e. !'he report may also be used to support an effort to have Nott Memorial designated a Na tiona I H istCHic Landmark. It is now entered on the National Register of Historic Places, a lower classification than the Landmark rating. The building is conside.red to have national significance as an artifact of the history of American architecture. The report reviews the building's tmubled history and m!lny teincarnation·s as a ceremonial meeting center, museutn, library, and theater. It proposes a re'novatiofl program to restore the physical fabric of the building. Those repairs would cost a total of $907.000 1 with a $275.000 bill for roof repairs the largest item, The proposal also envisions a; wtertor to tts original ~:oofiguration as a single columnar space reaching all the W<\Y to the dome, with two galiet:ies encircling the outer walls. l'he ground floor would again become a meeting space- with hasic seating for 3 25 on removable chairs .. rhe first gallery would become a C<lllege museum, housing early scientific equipment, portraits, and other memorabilia of the CGIIege's long history. The second gallery would be adapted for use as an Admissions Office, reached by elevator from a new entrance into the basement on the west side of the building. The Student Aid Office would he installed in the basement. Fotal cost of the remodeling for adaptive use would be $309,000. ·- CONCORilY ·ELECTIONS Elections for Editsr•in- Chief of Concordy will be · held 'Within two weeks of this · notice, on February 12. All 4 persons who desire to be candidates for editorshil> are urgell to submit their names to the Student Activities office. Registration deadline for candidates will be next thursday, February 7, at 4:30 p.m. All Concordy staff· members are eligible to vote. - -· - . •. . l$ruce Sostek, one of the student members of the CQmmittee, . echoed Dean Lichterman's opm1on, saying that the \academic qualifications of the candidates by and la~ge appeared very impressive. On the whole they appeared to be highly respected pillars of the academic community.\ Letters were sent to those reeommended, inquiring as to their interest in the position of President of Union College. Many qualified people. said Dean Lichterman chose not to pursue an interest in the position. According to Dean Lichterman the Committee was given the responsibility of initial screening of the candidates, with the Trustees reviewinJ:i the Committee's list. After review of the candidates' folders by the Committee, those who looked strongest on paper were brought to the campus. The candidates met confidentially with the Committee, said Mr. Sostek. Due to confidentiality, those who were unable to meet on ~ampus were interviewed off campus by either a Trustee or Search Contin~ed on Page 9 ELECTION COMMitTEE NOTICE!! A special election will be held in order to fill one of the Class of '76 positions on the Steering Committee that has vacated this term. Those · · wishing to ruit must be members of the Class of '7 6. Petitions will be available in the Student Activities Office in Old Gym Hall on Friday,· Feb. l. A minimunl of 100 signatut~s, aU of which must come .from the Class of '76, are necessary. Petitions are due back in the St.udent Activities Office by 12 Noon . on Monday, Feb. ll. The order of appearance on the ballot will be determined by the order in which completed petitions are received.. All petitions will be checked by the Elections Committee. The election itself will be held on Tuesday, Feb. · 12, trorn I) a.m. to 9 p.m. in the STUDENT ACTIVITIES OFFICE. If neeessary, - a runoff will be held on Wednesday, Feb. 13 at the same times and location. ·For further inforrnation, eon~.:t.llarry Lessin: 37:!-9730 Harold Clark Martin, 57, Pi'esident of Union College and Chancellor of Union University, ha·s been elected President of the American Academy in Rome, the Academy announced today. Selection of Mr. Martin was confir-med at a meeting of the Aca<lemy's trustees in New York nn Tuesday, January 29, according to Walker 0. Cain, C'hairornan of the Board. rvt r. Martin, President of tl nion for the past nine years, submitted his resignation to the College last July. to take effect on June 30, 1974. He will assume his new post Aug. I. The American Academy in Rome is a non-profit educational institution, chartered in 1905 by the Congress of the United States. By providing fellowships, which are awarded on the basis ·of merit, the Academy enables promising younger American artists and scholars to develop their abilities and pursue their interests in Rome. Advanced work is carried out in music and fine arts, classical, post-classical studies, .and the history of art. As President of the Academy, Mr. Martin will be the first f ul It i me paid exec uti v e administrator to deal with operations in Rome and in the New York City headquatters of the organization. A. graduate of Hartwick College in Oneonta, N.Y., he received an M.A. from Michigan in 1942 and a Ph.D. from Hanard in 1954. He holds honorary degrees from Trinity (Conn.) College and from Hartwick, Siena, Elmira, and Concord Colleges. Before coming to Union in 1965 as its 14th 35 cents president, Mr. Martin was Director of General Education and Lecturer in Comparative Literature at Harvard. Martin has held numerous professional positions, including the chairmanship of the Commission on English of the College Entrance Examination Board, 1961~65, and has' been a director of the Council for the Humanities since 1959. He is. a trustee of Roxbury (Mass.) Latin School, Hartwick, and Union. Locally, Martin has served for four years on the Board of Directors of the Schenectady Chamber of Commerce and is immediate Past President of that group. He is a member of the Board of Directors of the Schenectady Trust Company, the Schenectady Museum, and the Volunteers for International Technical Assistance (VITA). He was also chairman of the planning committee of the Human Services Council for Schenectady County and was co-chairman of .(he Governor's Commission on Compensation of the Legislature and the Judiciary. He is a member of the senior vestry at St. George's Episcopal Church in Schenectady. During his nine years at Union, the College has increased its enrollment from I ,300 to I ,900- i-ncluding the first women students, admitted during the College's !75th anniversary year in 1970; ·established a small graduate program; completed two dormitories, two classroom buildings, the Science- Engineering Center. and a major addition to its library; and increased total assets from $30 million to more than $50 million. print by KG Halton Opening the new modern exhibition space in the arts department will- be an exhibit of woodcuts. /inocuts and other relief prints by Uni~~ College students in Art 25/ Comp. Ed; 79. The class studied the techniques of cutting and printing. developing a sensitivitv {or two- dimensional spatial balance. Work rep~~sents a concern for the interaction between p'asitive and negative space (black and white) in a wide varietv of graphic images. The course will he offered agai~ i~ spring term. The Student Prints will he open from January 31-February 8. 2-5:00 p.m.

lJ ~) f Indeed'/ tremble for my country when !reflect that God isfust -· T .. Jefferson Vol. 103, No.9 · CONCORDY:- Our View \To ~in hy silence when .they should protest makes cowards of men.\ (A. Lincoln) Silence also leads to mwontrollable malaise. ·for only when problems are verbalized do they sudde~ly becom~ tangible, ~nd. consequent;Jy, solvable. When unhappme.ss remams smolden!lg· when questions r,emain unanswered; situations seem overwhelmmg and solutions remain hidd.en. Concordy's goal this term is to serve as a sounding ~oa.rd ~or all students: COlllments a·nd criticisms will be he(lrd. questions will try to be matchecl with answers, Concor.dy is Uniun's paper, and since there are manv different types ·of students at Union, many different opinions will be expressed. We are not here\to pass on the \ruling elite's opinion\ of what is wrong with this school and how things should be changed. Rather. we are here to learn about Union from those who know it. best. the students. all the students. Since Concordy's editors are not going to pretend to. represe~t and \understand\ all the students on carnpus. a large, active staff 1:; needed. in which each member will help contribute to the understanding of Union as a community. If students do not share their opinions with others. if nightmares and dreams are not made public. then they can never be prevented or fulfilled. No one can help the \silent majority\- if no one even knows where to find it. the editors Thursday, January 31, 1974 35 cents Martin's -Future in Rome President Harold Martin Harold Clark Martin, 57, President of Union College and Chancellor of Union University, has been elected President of the American Academy in Rome, the Academy announced today. Selection of Mr. Martin was confirmed at a meeting of the Academy's trustees in New York on Tuesday, January 29. according to Walker 0. Cain, Chairman of the Board. Mr. Martin, President of Union for the past nine years. submitted his resignation to the College last July, to take effect on June 30, 1974. l-Ie will assume his new post Aug. l. president, Mr. Martin was Director of General Education and Lecturer in Comparative Literature at Harvard. Martin has held numerous professional posi,tions, including the chairmanshi·p of the Commission on English of the College Entrance Examination Board, 1961~65, and has been a director of the Council for the Humanities since 1959. He is a trustee of Roxbury (Mass.) Latin School, Hartwick, and Union. Presidential Search Progresses The American Academy in Rome ,is a non-profit educational institution, chartered in 1905 by the Congress of the United States. By providing fellowships, which are awarded on the basis of merit, the Academy enables promising younger American artists and scholars to develop their abilities and pursue their interests in Rome. Advanced work is carried out in music and fine arts, classical, post-classical studies, and the history of art. Locally, Martin has served for four years on the Board of Directors of the Schenectady Chamber of Commerce and is immediate Past President of that group. He is a member of the Board of Directors of the Schenectady Trust Company, the Schenectady Museum, and the Volunteers for International Technical Assistance (VITA). He was also chairman of the planning committee of the Human Services Council for Schenectady County and was co-chairman of the Governor's Commission on Compensation of the Legislature and the Judiciary. He is a member of the senior vestry at St. George's Episcopal Church in Schenectady. by PHYLLIS EDELMAN Three candidate~ applying for: the position of President of Union College have been brought onto campus during the past month, upon recommendation of the Presidential Search Campus Advisory Committee. These candidates openly met with students, faculty, and administrators on campus. Thjs is one of the final steps in the procedure set up by the Committee in charge of finding a new President for the College to replace President Harold C. Martin who retires this June. Dean Lichterman. one of the members of the Committee. described its working procedure. He explained that approximately 250 folders containing applicants' credentials and letters of recom- mendation were screened bv the Committee members. Applicants were judged on the basis of their strengths in five areas. These included the candidates' abilities in the field of fund-raising: on- 'campus kadership, including setting the academic tone and sense of direction of the College; managerial and administrative experience; and his public appearance at ceremonial affairs and with the constituencies buth inside and outside the College, Most of the nominees, according 10 Dean Lichterman, were recommended by \distinguished leaders of other institutions. The Dean said that the \quality of Union was demonstrated by the kinds of names sent to us\ from other members of Academia. \The kinds of people recommended to lJ nion looked very, very good.\ Nott Facelift A completed \historic structure report\ sets the cost of repairing and remodeling Nott Memorial at an estimated $1.546,000. Funds for the 150-page study were provided by the Board of Trustees and the Alumni Council. lhe report was submitted to the Trustees hv President Harold C. Martin, who suggested that it provided the information the hoard would. need to make basic decisions about the century-old structure. l'he report may also he used to support an effort to have Nott Memorial designated a National Historic Landmark. It is now entered Oil the National Register of Historic Places, a lower classification than the Landmark rating. The building is considered to have national significance as an artifact of the history of American architecture. The report reviews the huilding's troubled history and many reincarnations as a ceremonial meeting center, museum, library, and theater. It proposes a renovation program to , restore the physical fabric of the huilding. Those repairs would cost a total of $907 ;000 1 with a $275,000 bill for roof repairs the largest item. The proposal also envisions a 1ntenor to Its original t:onfiguration as a single columnar space reaching all the way to the dome, with two galleries encircling the outer walls. l'he ground floor would again hecome a meeting space with hasic seating for 325 on removable chairs. l'he first gallery would become a College museum, housing early scientific equipment. portraits. and other memorabilia of the College's long history. The second gallery would be adapted for use as an Admissions Office, reached by elevator from a new entrance into the basement on the west side of the building. !\he Student Aid Office would be installed in the basement. l\otalcost (1f the remodeling for adaptive use would he $309,000. ... Hruce Sostek, one of the student members of the Committee, echoed Dean Lichterman's opinion, saying that the \academic qualifications of the candidates by and large appeared very impressive. On the whole they appeared to be highly respected pillars of the academic community.\ Letters were sent to those recommended, inquiring as to their interest in the position of President of Union College. Many qualified people, said Dean Lichterman chose not to pursue an interest in the position. According to Dean Lichterman the Committee was given the responsibility of initial screening of the candidates, with the Trustees reviewing the Committee's list. After review of the candidates' folders by the Committee, those who looked strongest on paper were brought to the campus. The candidates met confidentially with the Committee, said Mr. Sostek. Due to confidentiality, those who were unable to meet on campus were interviewed off campus by cit her a Trustee or Search Continued on Page 9 - - - ELECTION COMMITTEE NOTICE!! A special election wil1 be neld in order to fill one of the Class of '76 positions on the Steering Committee that has vacated this tenn. Those · wishing to run must be members of the Class of '76. Petitions will be available in the Student Activities Office in Old Gym Hall on Friday, Feb. 1. A minimum of 100 signatures, all of which must come from the Class of '76, are necessary. Petitions are due back in the Student Activities Offke by 12 Noon on Monday, Feb. 11. The order of appearance on the ballot will be determined by the order in which completed petitions are received. AU petitions will be checked by the Elections Committee. The election itself will be . · held on Tuesday, Feb. 12, from 9 a.m. to 9 p.m. in the STUDENT ACTIVITH!S OFFICE. lf necessary, a runoff will be held on . ·Wednesday, Feb. 13 at the same times and location. For further information, contact Harry Lessin: 372-9730 As President of the Academy, Mr. Martin will be the first f u 1·1 tim e paid exec uti v e administrator to deal with operations in Rome and in the New York City headquarters of the organization. A graduate .of Hartwick College in Oneonta, N.Y., he received an M.A. from Michigan m 1942 and a Ph.D. from Harvard in 1954. He holds honorary degrees from Trinity (Conn.) College and from Hartwick, Siena, Elmira, and Concord Colleges. Before coming to Union in 1965 as its 14th During his nine years at Union, the College has increased its enrollment from 1,300 to I ,900 - including the first women students, admitted during the College's !75th anniversary year in 1970; established a small graduate program; completed two dormitories. two classroom buildings, the Science- Engineering Center, and a major addition to its library; and increased total assets from $30 million to more than $50 million. print by KG Halton Opening the new modern exhibition space in the arts department will be an exhibit_ of woodcuts, linocuts and other relief prints by Union Colleffe students in Art 25/ Comp. Ed. 79. The class studied the techniques of cutting and printing, developing a sensitivity for two- dimensional spatial balance. Work r~presents a concern (or the interaction between positive and negative ~pace (black and white) in a wide vmiety of graphic images. The course will he offered again in spring term. The Student Prints will he open from January 31-February 8, 2-5:00 p.m.

Page2 CONCORDIENS!S, Thursday, January 31. 1974 :\l,a'OliDJJV ~Id~$~ ~~~-·~ <lrnnrnr ~ ~~~ hirnats ... C5 ~~~~\~ Editors-in~chief.. ............... Judy Dein, Bill Talis News Editor ............................. Phyllis Edelman Culture Editor .................................. Pete Sobol Sports Editor ................................. Bart Mercer Photo Editor ................................. Bill Erichson Copy Editor ................................... Phil Alcabes B . Ed' usmess Itor. ............................ Alan Gnessin N . I Ad .. at10na vert1smg ....................... Steve Kelley Subscriptions Editor .............. Genie Rosenblum Lay Out.. ............... Dave Strom, Linda Mackey ~oncordiensis is published every Thursday by the student body of Umon College. Old Gym Hall, Schenectady, N.Y .. Publications Office The Jewish World Publications, 771 State St .. Schenectadv, N.Y .. 12307 (346-2356). Entered in the Schenectady Post Office as -Second Class Matter. Subscription Rate 35 cents per copy, $8.00 a vear delivered anywhere in the United States. Deadline for copy is Tuesday5:00 P.M. Let my people know Hear ye! Hear ye! All ye library hasementdwellersand hardened catatonics! Be forewarned that the Union rag, Concordiensis, has fallen under new management. That's right, folks. And although we cannot promise to reset your leaders and gutters and recaulk your windows and doors, we can, and will present you with a list of the changes we intend to wreak on this vehicle. As you may have gathered by now, we on the editorial board are bent on. bringing Union students more lively reading material. We will have news which affects YOU, the student. We know you. You're the guy who takes a stack of books off the shelf to save himself a desk in the library. You're the girl who has her deck shuffled in the input drawer at Keypunch City. You're the Center I student to whom all- nighters are a close friend. You're the Center II student who still feels guilty about fudging data. Our news will hit you where it counts, and you know where that is. We will be a forum for student opinion; we will encourage the writing of letters to the editors, be they vicious rumors, righteous propaganda or the broad spectrum between. In a nutshell, we intend to be well read. We intend that the next issue of Concordy should be looked forward to for more than the exam schedule. Speak to us and you will be answered. We hope you will find that this new improved Concordy fills the gap in your life which has come, in many people, to be between their ears. The editors Silence is not gOlden The search for new leadership can be one fraught with many a trial and tribulation, be that for leadership of the United States, or of Union College. Just as the American public has a role in the replacement or displacement of its leadership, the students of a college should be involved, either directly or indirectly in the decision process. At Union, we are fortunate to have such access to vehicles of administrative influence. A committee in which students participate has been established for purposes of presidential search. Three candidates visited the campus, making themselves available for student scrutiny. · Further opportunity for scrutiny on any issue must be made available through a student press .. Any attempt to deny such opportunity can only serv.e to the detriment of a vibrant academic community; judging from past experiences, we find the student body to be as vibrant as a graveyard. In our policy statement, Concordy refuses to be intimidated by any means other than open and free discussion. So why all the brouhaha? The process of selection of Union's President is far too sensitive a matter for comment in the student press, apparently: after one candidate appeared on campus, two student-elected representatives serving on the committee approached Concordy's editors stating, \clon't print anything on the candidates.\ Their arguments for such action were \confidentiality\ and \displaying a sense of fair play to all candidates.\ When a candidate makes himself publicly accessible for scrutiny, it is unreasona hie to request an open press to remain silent. The search for a new President has not been an easy procedure, and the June deadline of President Martin's departure is becoming perilously close. Regardless of the underlying issues, the fact remains clear that Concordy will not bow to pressure from any individual who attempts to suppress free expression in this newspaper. t & d JAKE r THE LIPSTEIN'S OTHER SIDE LIQUORS OF TODAY Tel. 374-l88ft Mon.·Sat. 9 a.m.·9 p.m. Handcrafted Silver, 464 State St. Gifts-Books-· Posters Downtown Schenectady l3S JAY ST. \. 370m0477 ~ Union crowd. Race & 1.8. by PETE SOBOL Un I hursday, January 24, Dr. Richard Golds!,y gave a talk entitled Race and Races on this campus. Never having seen the man, this reporter was struck by the friendly greeting received fro·in a black man at the door to SS 016. This man was Dr. Goldsby, who both humorously and seriously impressed the capacity crowd during his talk; o f f e r in g a cas e f o r t he hiochemical differentiation hetween the races without too much Center II talk~ showing a ·rare sense of humor and doing an excellent job in handling what could be a very sensitive subject. The subject was the purported 15 point difference between the average ·IQ score achieved by hlacks and by whites. Dr. Goldsby. after offering folk tales (one from personal experience) and scientific ex'planations. for the origin of races, made an outstanding presentation of both sides of the IQ question. Dr. Goldsby defined the IQ for the audience as .a measure of an individual's ability to succeed in a training program. He then stated that the IQ was for the most part an inherited trait, while environmental effects were minor. Two studies were then presented; one indicated the 15 point difference; and one did not. The validities of these studies. and of any study which has been or can be done on whether blacks performed lower on IQ tests due to genetic or environmental conditions were then called into question. Dr. Goldsby said that the IQ question is a project which should be at the very bottom of :my socia.l research priority. Dr. Goldsby, who acknowledg- ed the !5 point difference but who was not convinced that the difference was hereditary m the United States, did not allow his position to affect his presentation of the situation to any noticeable degree. Dr. Goldsby can be reached at the following address: l Department of Chemistry University of Maryland C'ollege Park, Maryland Women Unite! by ELAINE DIMPELFELD providing an atmosphere for women to get to know one another. Many who at-tended were eager to set a date for the next .meeting, so it has been decided thut the group shall meet fr:om _now, on, every Monday 11_1ght In Strauss lounge at 9:00 p .. m. fhe Women's Caucus informal reception, Tuesday night, was r> robably the largest group of women ever gathered at Union. ·ney maintain that there is a lack ()f opportunity for w'omen to k now each other on camp us. Men have fraternities and sports which provide !:hem with a strong feeling .of brotherhood, but the only women's gatherings ar:e (he Women's chorus and, just recent'ly, the gym. Basically, they see the women here pitted against each other in academic The members of the Women's Caucus feel that Union was very shortsighted when it decided to go ·co-ed. The only concessions made were to provide \dormitories and some bathrooms without urinals.\ They feel like visitors to an alJ:- male campus, The College's attitude towanf its women has been . to Ignore them and their needs. Women moved into a frate rn'i ty-orien ted soc ia I situation, and it hasn't changed. Another notable example of the Jack of planning in incorporating women into Union is the dearth of athleti.c facilities for them. This has resulted in a factionalized society, with little sense of total community because no place was made for women here. They are just now trying to make a place competitiOn and in social competition in this high,powered, katernity-dominated life. About seventy people attended tile reception. They were mostly upp.erclasswomen 'alo.ng with s()rne women administrators, faculty and facu'lty wives. There were also several dogs (sex undetermined) and a male student. At first everyone talked informally, then the members .of t'he Women's Caucus introduced themselves and explained their goals and feelings toward Union, the organi7.ation itself, and the forthcoming Women's Week. A question session followed. after which the meeting broke into small Eroups to talk. Discussions covered various topics, some related to Women's Caucus, some not. The original somewhat stilted air did disappear and most people delt directly, non-cattily, with other wotnen, without being embarrassed. It succeeded in funds Willed Union College has received slightly more than $905,000 as its share in the estate of the late Margaret Woodbury Strong of Rochester, N.Y. The bequest is a portion of a $77 million estate, most of which will go to establish the Margaret Woodbury Strong Museum of Fas-cinations in Rochester with the remainder divided equally among 19 other institutions including Union College. The 'Strong bequest carries no stipulations and the sum has been adcled .to Union's funds f~1nctioning as endowment. The money has been invested with an !V·i annual return expected. $72.000 has already been allocated to help eliminate the present $1 million deficiency in next year's budget. for themselve~. · Last fall term, a group of women began meeting to discuss the problems they had become aware of at Union. 'fhey met with Dean Smith on Thursday nights. The meetings were not exclusive to women or to students alone. Eventual_ly they decided that they should try to do more than talk and should try to· attain some of their goals. They therefore became a formal organization. drew up a constitution and called the group the Women's Caucus. There were about 25 members, with a small core which attended regularly. They have tried to avoid forming an elitist ruling faction. They have no president or chairwoman and are loosely directed and organized.· They welcome anyone as a member. They have formed several small committees concerned with different problems. Members join those committees they are personally interested in. Some of the topics of the various committees. are Career Placement for Women, Athletics, Women's Studies in the Curriculum, Admissions Policy, Women in Administrative Position, Health Services, and Women's Week. Women's Caucus is not affiliated with any nationaily known organi7.ation and could not be called radically feminist. All members have their own concerns, though for the time being all efforts are being devoted to Women's Week. Mrs. Strong, heiress of the pr~~inent Rochester family whtc:h owned Woodbury Whip Co., died in 1969. Her father had been one of the early backers of George Eastman, and at the time t>f her death, she was the largest single shareholder in Eastman Kodak. She was the widow of lawyer Homer Strong, a Niskayuna native and 1!!98 graduate of Union College. He moved from Schenectady to Rochester and with his brothers founded Homer Stro11g & Co .. a tool and steel company. He died in 1958. Women's Week will be held Sunday, February 24 through Saturday, March 2. Plans so far include state Senator Mary Anne Krupsak as the opening night speaker, lectures, including topics such as Women in Law, Politics and Education, films, panel discussions, feminist therapy, and a dance to end it all. The group is hoping to get support from other campus organizations as an effort to overcome the factionali7.ation of Union into groups: fraternity men, independents, black students, and women students. Maurice Graubart & Sons The Women's Caucus welcomes inlJUines and new members, whether they plan to participate or to listen and become aware of others' concerns. They have found the administration responsive once needs have been made known and therefore want to know what people want. They are providing a chance for the women at Union now to get the c;hanges they want. THIS IS. HERSHEL, MAURICE. AND WALTER GRAUBART. AT GRAUBART & SONS. S('HENECTADYS OLDEST FAMILY JEWELERS. WE VERY SELDOM ADVERTISE OUR REPAIR DEPARTMENT BECAUSE WE ARE KEPT BUSY MOST OF THE TTME, WE'D LIKE TO MENTION THAT WE OFFER A COMPLETE REPAIR SERVICE ON WATCHES AND .JE'WELRY ITEMS. OUR WATCH REPAIRS ARE DONE BY EFFICIENT. HIGHLY SK1LLED WATCHMAK,ERS. AND OUR WORK IS' GUARANTEED TO BE SATISFACTORY. OlJR REPAIR SHOP WITH OUR OWN JEWELERS AND DIAMOND SETTERS CAN I'ERF()RM MOST JEWELRY REPAIRS. REMEMBER GRAUBART & SONS FOR RELIABLE SERVICE. Hi6 JAY ST. SCHENECT Al> Y ~ ............. ~..-..IIJ!I!IIIII! ......... _____ _. ... ' ,~··r.· .• , ·#: ·~ 1··.::.~ ..• •~·.!l't•·< ~..\', 0 .. ••• •·•• -~ _., • ~·. t~t' LeVfS Dal'e's Mens Shop 453 States~. (downtown Schenectady) .. \ ~ .. ' ' l .~. 'f< m th be te or (\\ or !Ill H ('J (b m ev we to ca d pi gc af of en fo fo S< · re ar fe M af sic of lit g.r fo b< w: m m re sc th kJ I fo cr !II D ar w, w le at H 01 lo V< qt li Cl tc Cc IS fc yc pi tt a! yc tt sl ll fr 01 () n It fa al 0 L IT B a. st h s tl p a a 't

' . ·' ' l .~: .,. • ~~~ .. ,\,\\\. ~ ·~ \:').'~ CONCORDIENSIS, Thursday, January 31. 1974 Page] FUELING AROUND by RUFUS T. FIREFLY As we are aU well aware, modern America and the rest of this spaceship called Earth, is beset by an energy crisis; Oh, how terrible it is. Our economy, built on the sweat of our forefathers (who art in heaven), doesn't run on the stuff, it runs on oil. And to anyone who has seen the Beverly Hill billies, the stuff that Jed Clampett made his fortune on, oil ~black gold, Texas. tea) is running m short supply. Woe's me, everything from the clothes we wear, to the gas we put in our car, to the aspirin\we take when we can't get the car to run ot the clothes to wear, is made from the planktons of the past; that black goop: oil. Well we k.llow how it has affected the economy, the object of this inquiry is how has the energy crisis affected \magic forests.\ Your typical. small magic forest is situated somewhere m!ar Sc~enecteedee. Situated in a hilly reg1on, behind a commanding array of snarpened, speared fences next to the mighty Mohawk of Cooper fame in the aforeme\ntioned pastoral and sleepy (or is that .comatose) town of Schenecteedee our magic forest lies. The forest is maintained by a g.roup of dwarfs who keep the forst oh so nice and pretty. This botanical inclave boasts that it was the first planned magic forest in the nation. The forest contains many trees, some old, and some recently planted. But wait, I see someone coming. Dwarf: Hey buster, what da ya think you're pulling? Don't· ya know this is a private forest! Rufus: I'm from the press, and I carrie to inquire how this magic forest .is meeting the energy crunch. May I ask sit, who you are? Dwarf: You heard of Daffy the Duck, R umpelstiltskin the elf, and of course Bilbo the Hobbit, well I'm Dildo the Dwarf. Rufus: What do you do here? Dwarf: Well, i run this place, well almost the whole place, I leave the external affairs to another of my fellow dwarfs, Harold. He's going through, no one knows when, seems like there looking for a dwarf like me, but vou know guys with my qualifications are pretty hard to find. Rufus: I would think so. Damn straight. Now cut the crap. What the -- do you want to know? Well, Dildo, you don't mind me calling you Dildo? That's what I am. Well, Dildo, my first question is how do you maintain your forest? What I mean is how do you have the money to keep this place in its present condition? Oh yes, we raise turkeys. The turkeys come here and pay us a bout $5,000 a year for four years. We fatte.n. them up and then send them out for the slaughter. We have many types of turkey; the local variety, some from Pittsfield, Boston, and the nether corners of the earth. But our most famous kind, and most numerous is the Longisland turkey. I thought long Island was only famous for its ducks? · Ducks, pigeons, ostrich, they're all the same. {Aside) As a matter of fact there are some of those Longisland turkeys I wouldn't mind having for a quick goose. But in the end, they're all turkeys; all waiting to leave and become stuffed with a lot of bread. We hoard these turkeys in the hollow stumps of the trees, and we fatten them up in other trees. Here's the problem with those turkeys: they all need heat to keep them warm, and light to see. Anyway, we give 'em light and heat, and we don't even· ask them for a thank you. H·oVI nice. Buster, you're a nice guy, but if you don't stop interrupting, I'm going to have to punch your------ - mouth ·in. Now. where was I. Oh yes. so we give them light and heat. We get the electricity from the Niagra-Mohawk power cornpany. and we get our oi·l frorn Paragon Oil. a subsidiary of \Fexaco. You know 'Texaco. \We can he very friendly.\ Also, they can also give one hell of a screwing_. Up to the energy crunch. Central heating facilities worked fine. When we were able to ram doVIn as much steam as we wanted', the system worked great. If the trees got too hot for those turkeys, they could rip some bark off the tree, and let some air in. Tl'le cost of oil, as you know has skyr()cketed, .and we can't ram the heat down any more. Just take a look at these facts: TOTAL FUEL COST (approximate) Pre-Crunch Estimate (August) 1973-74 1974-75 $108,150 $152.700 Post Crunch Estimate (Dec.) 1973-74 1974-75 $175,000 $252,375 If you .know how to read these chart8, they tell you that the cost of fuel in the past year rose $6 7,500 over the estimate, and that the fuel cost estimate in the forthcoming year has risen approximately $100,000. But don't forget, that this $ 100,000 increase includes the 20,000 additional gallons needed to heat the ne,w branch we put on the lil>rary. Besides just the rising cost, you just can't get the #6 cr.,.de we use. whell you want it. ihe oil distributor cut our allocation of fuel this Janu&ry to 75% of what we used last January. Now if you keep track of the weather charts, y()li~ll have noticed that this January was 20% colder than last .Ia nuary. But does the distributor care'! Nope. But it does appear that we'll have e.nough oil to make it through this month. The federal government, on January 15th, issued its oil guidelines which are supposed to include a provision that adjusts the amount of fuel the distributor must provide to account for degree days_ 8asically, Dufus- TIIat's Rufus, Dildo. Degree days is the difference of 65 degrees F. to the outside temperatUre. But nobody knows how 111uch fuel we're going to receive. We think we'll make it, all we can do is wait and pray to the great oil men in the Bahamas. .Tur.ning to the power situation, we are on firmer .ground. We have reduced our energy intake by 56%. W.e have examined our lighting system, and see that we were overlit, and have turned many lightbulbs off all over the [()rest. We ask all the turkeys to turn lights off when not needed and this goes fo.r their feeders to turn off classroom lights that they vacate. I understand that you extended the VJinter recess by two weeks. Was this necessary? As I said before, the system works fine when we can ram d.own as much heat as we want. Levrs Dave's Mens Shop -153 State St. (dawntow.A Schenectady) ~~;;~~M~~i·~·s·t·;J : : S 727 STATE ST. S i PHONE: 374-7433 ! f .................... i••••••• .. •i••••••••i .... i NoVI t-hat we want to keep the system at a nice 68 degrees, controls that we never used (and hy this my little Rufus, I mean never used to that great an extent) must now operate effectively. We are seeing that many don't. Secondly, we just can't lower all the trees to the same temperature. For example, a room may be the desired temperature, but a pipe that is adjacent to the outside may become cold enough to do damage to it. Another example is the -trouble we found at the North tree. On the westerly side, the winds hit it, arid it gets much colder than the other rooms in the North tree. What I'm saying basically, is that we were ignorant of our heating system, of all the nuances that it contains; and it contains many. The period over the vacation when the school was empty gave us the chance to learn about our system. I'll tell you another of our problems: we want to build i·nto our system thermostats and other control devices. But like everything else, they're in short supply. For example, a valve that controls the heat for Richmond is broken, but the part has a three month backlog in orders. Therefore the turkeys over there will probably be staying on the warm side. Is there anything else you want to say, Dildo? Why yes, there is. We are learning about our system, and therefore, since we aren't going into the turkeys rooms to check temperatures, if either extremes in temperature occurs, or something . funny happens, please you turkeys, call up the Dwarfs over in maintainence and tell them about it. The energy crisis has added to our costs and among other things have given us a $1 million overrun in the budget. We were able to eliminate this overrun without the elimination of any personnel and without any increase in tuition for the coming year. In the long term, a committee of dwarfs has been formed to see what solutions there are for the present condition. The obvious are how to correct the present system, to work as we want it to. But the less obvious, that have been bandied about, is the removal of hotplates, and possible changes in the school calendar. This committee's final report has not yet come out, so these statements are in effect just speculation. Well, Dildo, it's been nice speaking to you. Never met a nicer dwarf. ---you. - -DARI- TREET 'Student Discount' (with I.D.) 2049 VanVranken Mon.-Fri. 6-9, Sat. 8·9 377-4261 783 ALBANY ST. WE DELIVER UNTIL MIDNIGHT .Call 374-5600 photo by Cliff Langweiler Two members qf the Star Spangled Washboard Band contemplating where to go for a beer after the show. The Washboard Band, toKether with the orKanic group, Country Granola, gave a superb servinJ? of Swanee swinging to semi;.,stuporecl students and sever~! sundry sinister saunterers who stopped to see the sight and sample the sound. You Said It I Editors, Concordiensis: The issue of racial inferiority of blacks was first advanced into the realm of science in 1969 when Dr. Arthur Jensen published his article in the Harvard Educational Review. Jensen theorized that, based upon data indicating lower average black performance on IQ tests, and the generally .accepted heritability of intelligence, the black race contained the characteristic of lower intelligence, as inherent as its skin color. A furor was raised involving scientists and educators across the nation. This furor raised an issue of vital importance to our society. Is scholarship to be unchecked? Date we restrict the freedom of inquiry upon which our heritage is based? The answer, as I see it, is clear. With any freedom comes responsibility; whether in the scientific community or in society at large. When an issue so socially sensitive as race comes under scientific scrutiny, larger interests that the search for truth must be considered. Science, in order not to be a danger to society, must maintain a social conscience. Thus the study of intelligence and genetics of course must continue; however, attempts must not be made to come to socially applicable conclusions at this early stage. While I in principle endorse freedom of speech, and condemn those who would tear speakers down from the podium, I do condemn scientists for releasing demons such as the atom or genetic inequality of races on an unprepared public. We must be protected from ourselves. It has heen borne out that indeed we cannot cope with such theories. A Professor Shokley, an outsider to the field of genetics, urges incentives for sterilization for hlacks in order to weed out lower genetic pools? Jansen himself suggests that social projects aimed at improving conditions of blacks are of no use since inherited characteristics cannot be altered through social programs. All of this is fuel for those who have advanced such racist theories on other levels for centuries. It must never be forgotten that whatever discoveries science makes about the human mind we must never· cease trying to improve the lot of the underprivileged. We must Levrs Dave's. Mens Shop 453 State St. (downtown Schenectady) ··.•,•.·.•.•·•.•.•.•·.•.·.·.·.····· . . always recognize that differences among humans, whether of genetic or environmental origin, are not to be evaluated as to their relative worth to society. Does Professor Jansen do right hy the black man? Certainly not, as is made clear by Professor Goldsby, the U. of Maryland chemist who addressed Union students last week. Since I have become interested in this issue I've read the views of perhaps a dozen scientists and educators in scho1arly journals, none t:>f whom are black. h is for Dr. Goldsby finally, to speak to us as a scie11tist and a black man as to the full extent of this ethical issue. As he indicated the human brain is still one of the great mysteries. Less mysterious is the need of a man for the dignity afforded by the respect and accept(Jnce of this fellow man. · Daniel Mausner Saga: I h1s column is primarily aimed at upperclassmen not on the hoard plan who are eating in their room, at restaurants, or not much at all. You must know that the United States is in the midst of a world wide food shortage. We expect for the next 12 to 18 months that raw food supplies are not only going to cost more, but that much will be in short supply. This means less food for even more money. For example, since December '72 to December '73 milk prices have risen $.23 a gallon or 26%. eggs 83% hamburger 32%, ice cream 37%. potato chips 33%. We at Saga have a solution. Through mass huying and national contracts, we can pass some of the savings along to you. The 20-meal plan includes Breakfast or Cont inenta I Breakfast, Soup and Sandwiches or Lunch. and Dinner, Monday thru Saturday: Brunch and Dinner on Sunday. This costs $230 per term or $23.00 a week, $3.29 a day, or $l.l2 a meal. The 14-meal plan includes any 14 meals Monday thru Sunday. This costs $210 a term or $21.00 a week, $3.00 a day, or $1.50 a meal. Both plans offer as much as you can eat with unlimited seconds (excepl steak night) and a wide variety of items not usUally Continued on page 10

Page 4 ·' Events CONCORDIENSIS, Thursday, January 3/, /C)74 Feb. 1... The Schenectady Public Library will sponsor a discussion on Great English Writers of the Twentieth Century conducted by Prof. Carl Niemeyer, covering: Sons and l,overs and Women in Love by D. H. Lawrence. No charge, 3 p.m, Fight of the Flicks Film Series: \II Bidone\ SSO 16, X p.m. Faculty 8ridge Club, Hale House Lounge, 8 p.m. Feb. 2 ... Band and Beer Party at Alpha Delta Phi, at 9 p,m. Feb. 3 ... Union College's Hugh Allen Wilson will perform an organ receital at 4 .p.m. in Memorial Chapel. The program will include works . by Vierne, l.anglais, Liszt, aHd Bach. by PETE SOBOL • This college has never had enough scanda~. Today, however, it is-this reporter's great pleasure to bring you. the first of many campus capers which have l1eretofore gone unspiced into the publ'ic eye. as \the airless wonder\ due to t·he innt!endos. He dares this marveLous ventilation system. The chailenge at the tisk of losing that film screened was Girl Happy which we· l!ll bold dear,_ but he starring \Elbow ParsJey,\ with a · knows that next time, he may do short feature consisting of t:he · mare than break even. first Roadrunner ca·rtoon ever It is with rapt anticipation that n1ade. (I'll bet you didn't know this reporter, yea even the entirety that papyrus strips were found in of the staff of this publication, a tomb in - but that's another awaits the titanic battle which story.) looms on the horizon of, the Film Haps presents Sometimes a Great Notion, Sunday only. There will be three shows: 7, 9, and II p.m. Tickets are $1 at the door, SS 016. Feb. 4 ... Rev. Rudolph Nemser of the Unitarian Society of Schenectady will review Seduction of Spirit :by H. Cox, at the Schenectady Public Library at noon. \The Pos.t-War War,\ a documentary slide presentation, will be shown in P. S. 012 at 8:30 a.m. Feb. 5... Hillel Film Festival presents The Juggler in SS 016 at 9 p.m., free admission. Feb. 6... Red Cross Bloodmobile at the Gym, I l a.m.- 5 p.m. \World Order Problems and World Politics: The Need for Change\ is the topic of discussion by Prof. Norman Walbek at the Schenectady Public Library at noon. Basketball, Union vs. Hart wick. at the Fieldhouse, at 9 p.m. Feb. 7 ... Hillel Israeli Dancing in Old Chapel at 7:30 p.m. Pro Cons \The Alberg charisma\ Clint Again REVIEW OF MAGNUM FORCE by JACK PITNEY Magnum Force is a sequel to Dirty Harry. Detective Harry Calahan (Clint .Eastwood) discovers that a se\cret cad.re of motorcycle cops is executing San Francisco's top criminals. As he catches on to their plans he become a farget himself. Here's the scorecard: killed by Harry's .44 magnum: 3; killed by Harry some other way: 10; killed hy the \Bad Guys\ with guns and bombs: l4; killed by Drano: I; women who offer to sleep with Harry: 2; women who actually get to sleep with Harry, I. The chase sequence is straight out of Bullitt, with cars leaping over hills, barely avoiding collisions and using up San Francisco's entire gasoline allocation. Hal Holbrook superbly underplays his role as Harry's antagonistic superior. And Clint is doing what he does best: killing people, What have you got to lose? Every Union student, from the most grateful senior down to the most hopeful freshman, knows about Film Haps. Well, do we all remember packing in to see such greats as The Devils of Lou«ton and' Sweet S weefbac k 's Baaaadassss Song (I never could spell, anyway). We also remember, as we fum!bled for our dollar bills, a feeling that t:his cannot go on. And who has not oeen disappointed by tlo seund. too much sound, an out-of-focus picture or no picture at all. lt has probably crossed the minds of an industrious few that a~ competition was necessary: a rival company. After all, competition breeds love for the customer. Now before proceeding with our expose, a few rumors need to be Cirmly set te liberty: I) Film Haps win be eut of business before the end ef the current academic year beoa use 2) Film Haps is at this m.oment in danger of becoming involved in a lawsuit to the tune of five big ones for violation of the One-Night-Stand clause of the lease contracts. Makes you stop and think doesn't it? Most people can't walk and think at the same time anyway, don't worry. It may come as a surprise to you, as many things probably do, that a rival film company has heen formed and held its first screening Sunday, January 20 at H:OO in SSOI6, commonly known It is in the wind that this new future; a struggle from which only rival company, known as UCoH the winner shaH emerge solvent. Cinema, took a loss on that Each Weekend, the bulletin production. But what can they hoards shall become !'heir battle have expected on the evening of fields, A·t stake: control ofSSOl6, everyone's first day back at this a.nd of the entire moviegoing monastery? · student bo.dy. Brazen poste·rs will The man behind the scenes of announce each warriors' newest this new film company is none ammunitiOn, each teaching other than the one and only further and further towards an Union College entrepreneur, excellence, a zenirh, of cinematic .lames Alberg. yuality as yet unrevealed to the It is a tribute to this man's Union Campus! determination and drive that a We have sai/ all that can be rival film company Was founded said for now. But be assured that on the rocky shores of student this reporter will keep his ear to catatonia. He stands as a the grindstone and his Hose in Rushmore. a (i i bra It 11 r , a other people's business, so that veritable Chester A. Arthur, who you, the student, will be towers above the .petty concerns. informed. And remember: only of lesser pre-meds. He st&nds as a you can conserve the Union model for us al:l; as one who dares College fuel bill. Sleep in the to challenge trad·ition at the risk hailer room! of receiving rebukes and For the Hillel of It Hillel. is alive and active at Union College. Weekly activities will continue this term, and new programs are being planned. Candlelighting and Kiddush are held at 5:45 p.m. every Friday evening in the back party room of the West College Dining Hall. At 7:00 p.m., all students are invited to join us in Strauss Lounge for Shabbat services and discussion of Judaic topics. Schenectady .I ewish Youtfu Council's semi-professionallsraeli dance group has invited Union's Hilld members to participate with them. They ho.ld their dance sessions on Strnday nights at 7:00 p.m. in the Jewish Community Ceriter on BaHtown Rd. by JACK PITNEY Any movie that begins with the r£!gtime tunes of Scott Joplin cannot take itself too seriously. Thank the Lord in Heaven, The Sting never does. This film aspires to no more than providing two solid hours of entertainment, and it succeeds beautifully. REVIEW· ''Heat rp .{ '' 1 rans 1 er \Heat Transfer,\ a one-act play hy Kathryn Poppino, will be presented at the New World Theatre at 135 Jay Street, Schenectady, on February 8, 9 , and 10 at 8:30 p.m. Helga Prichard, a member of the Capital Area Modern Dance Council, will also perform a piece entitled \Eclipse choreographed by Dr. Carl George of Union College. Academy, Carnegi Hall and at Daykanhanova School for the Stage. As director and acress, she worked for six years with ·the American Actors' Company. Marion Foster, who plays the role of a competent, no-nonsense wornan in \Heat Transfer,\ has perforfi!ed with the Schenectady Civic Playhouse, the Union College Mountebanks. the Saturday evenings the Sabbath is concluded with a beautiful ceremony ca'lled Havdallah. It is only five minutes long, but a nice way to start out the week (and a great way to start a Saturday night). Meeting for Havdallah is in 116 Fox at 7:15 Saturday. Israeli dancing will begin on Thursday, Feb. 1, at 7:30 p.m. in Old Chapel. Also, the A!so in the planning are Kosher dinners and special presentations in conjunction with Friday night services. Collective Kosher meat orders facilitate delivery. Anyone interested in Kosher meat should contact Nina Halpern, 364 Fox. 346-9692, Anyone who would like to join the planning committee for Hillel activities, or in attending Surtday night dance sessions at the J.C.C., con tact Scott Reiter, 151 Davidson, 370-6521. All one can say about the plot is that it revolves about the scheme of two small-time grifters in 1936 Chicago to fleece a big- time gangster out of half a million dollars. To reveal any more might spoil your enjoyment of the film. The performances of Paul Newman and Robert Redford in this film cement their reputation as the best comic-adventure team in the movies today. Newman is perfect as Henry Dorfmann. the more experienced of the two con- men. His \drunk act\ during a crooked card game is worth the price of admission by itself. As upstart bunco artist Johnnv Hooker, Redford is a superh match for Newman. He executes his con games so well that he often foots the audience as well as the bad guys. The direction itself is old-fash- ioned: iris shots and vertical wipes leading into new sequences are straight out of the early talkie era. The overall effect is delightful, for it recalls a time when the world of the movies was a world of fantasy and escape. If super-sex and ul- tra-violence have become a little tiresome for you, The Sting provides a great change of pace. The play is concerned with the problem of treating people in trouble a~ if they can be repaired like machinery. Two women, Marie and Joan, assume the tranditionally male role of fix-it- men. \Heat Transfer\ centers around the conflicts that arise \\.hen Joan's compulsion to fix things extends from machinery to repairing human relationships. \Heat Transfer\ · is being directed by Mary Bee, well- known for her fine work in direct- ing several Schenectady Civic Playhouse productions, including \'No Exit,\ \Spoon River Anthology,\ and \The Effects of Gamma Rays on Man-in-the- Moon Marigolds.\ The cast stars Phyllis Carver Smith as Cora and Marion Foster as Joan. Mrs. Smith received her acting training at Wolton Schenectady Light Opera Company, and the Galaxy Players. Other cast members are Kay Barta, who is making her stage debut as Marie; Ted Farell, who has had several Foles with the Union College Mountebanks: and l.orrie Schurenberg, winner of two acting awards for her work in Cincinnati, Ohio. Mrs. Poppino. the writer of the play, has had two other plays produced locally. fov · ticket reservations telepl10ne 399-7877. Tickets may also be purchased at the door. \WRUC reconnaissance runs rampant. The RedFox Inn 123 JAY ST. 'A QUIET BAR ... A PLACE TO tALK' Bud by the Pitcher u . .

Union College Course Evaluation Supplement to Concordiensis ~ Page A UNION COLLEGE \ COURSE EVALUATION Fall Term 1973 74 UNION COLLEGE COURSE EVAL.UATIOII! F\ALL TERM 1973 - 74 CALL SEC COURSE TV~'E DESCR I PTl ON INSTRUCTOR ENR RPT PCT A B c D r COURSE INSTR WORK 010010-01 F\E ~ 010 R BtLL OF\ Rt GHTS W MURPI-lY 17 D O% 0 3 13 0 1 \10 ReSPONSE 010011\'01 F'E -ou R SPF.CULAT lifE FICTION K lL.B URN 21 0 ox 4 7 10 0 0 NO RESPONSE 010012-01 F'E - 012 ~ IMfiGINAT\ION IN LIT CO LET 20 12 60; 9 9 2 0 0 4,00 4.25 3,08 010013-01 F'E - 013 ~ USES OF' TI-4E PAST MANSFIELD 10 10 100% 3 5 2 0 0 3,90 4.20 :5.50 010017-01 F\E -017 ~ RFV OL UTI Qt\1 I LATlN AM SRISTOL 13 11 84~ 1 7 3 l 1 3,54 J,90 3,36 01001!HJ1 f'E ~ 018 ~ NnN;VIOl..EIIJT DISSENT fLYNN 14 0 ox 3 5 5 0 1 NO RESPONSE 010018-02 F'E - 018 ~ NnN:VIDLE~T DJSSENT fLYNN .., 0 o; 2 2 2 1 0 NO R&SPDNSE 010022-01 F\E - 022 ~ l-lt'IM AN SOCt Eh WERNETTE 20 19 95% 3 10 6 1 .c a,47 2,50 3,68 010024-01 F\E -0?.4 Q MDsrc COM~OS1TION CURTIS 16 12 75\ 5 6 4 0 c 4,33 4.58 3,25 010027-01 F'E - 027 ~ F'REEDOM ENTEMAIIJ 10 10 lOOt 0 a 1 1 D 3,~0 5,00 3,50 010031·01 F'E - 031 q F'Lt ES HAVE DRTY F'EET MARK SMITH 26 0 0% 4 19 2 0 1 NO RESPONSE 010032-01 F'E .. 032 ~ ANARCHY & A'UTI:IOR lTV PAKER 13 11 84% 11 2 0 0 0 4,09 4.27 2.80 010060-01 F'E - 060 ~ LiGHT AND VISION GOBLE 27 0 0~ s 15 4 0 0 NO ReSPONSE 010062 .. 01 F'E - 062 ~ U~B~N TRA~SPO CRISIS MITT AL 32 0 0~ 11 18 1 D 0 NO RESPONSE 010064-01 F'E - 064 q WEA:fHER A\lD CLIMATE DON STONE 28 26 92\ 4 15 9 0 0 J,23 3.19 2.24 01006!!i-01 F'E - 065 ~ t~tQO CD~~ PRnGRAMMG llo\JJAR 25 24 96\ 9 8 5 3 0 3,04 2.87 3,45 010065-02 F'E - 065 ~ tNtRO CO~~ PROGRAMMG INGVARSSON 31 26 83X 1- 12 4 1 0 3,26 2.69 3,26 010o65~o3 F'E - 065 ~ lNtRD COM~ PROGRAMHG MC KEOWN 15 11 73% 4 5 5 1 0 2. 72 3o36 2.54 010069-01 F'E .. 069 q SnCIAL CHEMISTRY SCHAEFER 22 a 95\ 4 11 7 0 0 3,~8 4.28 3.47 ·010070-01 F'E - 070 ~ ENERGV ! ENVlRONMNT SHEFFER 12 12 100% 5 5 2 0 0 ~.16 2,58 3,66 010071-01 F\E - 071 ~ ELECTRIC ~OWE~ COSTS SUTTER 22 21 951 3 11 5 2 Cl 3,66 3,8§ 3,28 020070-01 F'E - 070 I. E~ERGY B ENVIRONMNT SHEHER 12 0 0~ NO RESPONSE 100021~01 CEO- 021 J:l WnMEN IN LITERATURE Mo\RINOF\F 28 20 71\ 6 19 2 1 0 2,45 2,50 2,60 100025-01 CED- 025 ~ JAMES JOY·L:E-Ul.VSSES ~ETERSON 13 0 0% 2 7 3 0 1 NO REiSPONSE 100026-01 CED- 026 R PtJ'JCT IONS OF' LAW N ALLEN 67 40 59\ 12 31 17 6 0 J,52 3,76 3,46 100039-01 CEO· 039 ~ MOO FRENC~ JNTELCTLS THOMAS 20 14 70\ & 10 4 0 0 4,57 4,78 3,42 100040•01 C:ED• 040 ~ BEG!NNING DEMOCRACY REECE 65 50 76% 10 38 17 0 0 3,74 4o40 2.52 100042~01 CED- 042 ~ H6MANITIES•ORIGINS FREUND 51 42 82% 15 22 14 0 0 4,38 4,64 3.31 100047-01 CEO- 047 q ltiEALISM JN GERM LIT WARDE 25 20 80% 7 16 2 0 0 3,65 !J,6Q 3.10 100052•01 CEO• 052 ~ Stt&TECH PHOTOGRAPH¥ JCNES 20 0 0\ 8 8 4 0 0 NO RPiSPONSE 100053-01 CEDw 053 ~ E~PERlENClNG ARCHTRE DUGGAN 7 6 85X 1 2 3 1 0 J, 16 3.00 4.50 100054-01 CEO· 054 R Mi~ ~NO ~15 86HAVIOR f,1RAVES 80 0 0% 9 44 20 3 4 NO RESPONSE 1M056-01 CED· 056 ~ ~OW THINGS WOlaK LE~IS 77 45 58\ 1' 26 20 8 6 4,5:3 2.57 2. 73 100057-oi CED· 057 J:l Tke NATURE OF MATH G lLLETTE 42 29 69X 1,3 20 8 1 0 3,06 3,96 2. 41 100062·01 CEbw 062 J:l DiGiTAL COMPUfR P~IN ~OF F\MA N 9 B 88\ .. 3 2 0 0 3,87 4.62 3.oo 100064•01 CEO .. 06 .. ~ 16EiS OF MOD PHYSICS tYLEN 6 0 O\ ~ 3 0 0 0 NO RESPONSE 100066·01 CED- 066 R SEX AND SElUALITY AMBER'!' 99 72 72\ 20 59 18 0 2 3,73 3.75 3.01 10006'7·01 CED- 067 ~ CnMPU'1'EF! LANGUAGES MC .KEOWN 11 10 90\ • 3 3 1 0 4,00 3,70 3.33 100071-01 CEO• 071 Q CnLOR IP A INTI NGi I 0 B l.TTLEMAN 6 7 116\ 3 3 0 0 0 3,!57 3.16 3.66 100072-01 C:~D· 072 R B.SIC DRAllllNG A BlTTI.EMI\N 9 7 77X 0 5 1 3 0 3,5'1 3.71 4.00 100074-01 CED- 074 R Bjs!C: DES!GN • 2-D MOORHEAD 8 6 75\ 1 5 2 0 0 3,130 4.00 3,00 ' ·~ 100075-01 OED· 075 It M~SIC: COMPOSITION ~ATERS 24 tB p5x 7 12 2 1 0 ;s,es 3o00 2,94 100076-0 I CED\ 076 ~ BASIC GflH 1 HlCS Ill 8 1 TTLEMAN 11 19 172\ 0 6 5 D 0 3.68 3o63 3,63 100078-01 CEO· 078 ~ P~ACT1CAL THEATRE aARRv SMIT!-1 18 0 0'-' 10 8 0 0 0 NO RESPONSE! 100081-.01 c;eo .. 081 ~ C6N~LICT OR CONCORD fiiOTH 40 42 85~ 29 18 1 a 0 2,83 3.59 2,64 100081~01 CEll• 061 ~ Ct~\!~LIC'T OR CtjNCORD ~UTZEL 40 '2 85\ 29 18 1 a 0 a. u 2.76 2.80 U·OO 82-01 CEO• 062 ~ sex,'L IT & CeNSQflSHIP SHINAGEL 28 22 18% 14 8 4 1 1 ;s. 77 4,31 3.27 100082-02 CEO• 062 ~ SEX;'LlT & CENSORSHIP Sf.llNAGEL H 12 85% 5 5 4 D 0 4,50 4.58 3,33 100086-01 CEO· 0!!6 R LiW IN DE~OCRAYC SOC 11\NDERSON 21 24 sax 2 15 a 2 0 3,83 3,70 3,12 . 100087Q01 CED· 067 ~ ATOML~ EN&PUB POLICY P.ILCHER 20 18 90% 5 10 4 0 0 3,44 3.55 3.00 . 100121-01 CEO· 121 R Lif A;ER POL SVSTEMS NICHOLS 6 5 83% 0 0 4 2 0 4,40 !5,00 3,80 100122-01 CED· 122 ~ ~~~iTICS OF E EUROP& rl AT I 11 10 90X 3 1 5 2 0 4,10 1.50 3,40 100123-01 CE,D· 123 ~ MnDERN JEWISH r.IJSTRV EiERI< 20 19 95% • 8 8 a 0 4,51 4.94 3,&4 101019•01 ee:o .. 019 R I'·ROjECT !Ill F\\RANCE ROaERTS 31 0 ox 17 13 1 a 0 NO RI!SPONSE 11005~·01 ceo .. O!i 2 L S~i~T!CH IHOT9~~APHV !JONES 10 0 ox NO RISPONSE uso52ug2 CEO· R'2 1.. S~i~T&C~ PWOTOGRAPWY ~ClNES u 18 0~ NO R&SPONSE 12 010 .. 1 ART~ 10 R C!H_;OR - PAINTING I B ll'TLEMAN «)OX :11 6 2 0 0 3,10 2,70 J,on 120011-01 ART• 011 R DRAWING I ~ BITT~EMAN 1.0 7 70l!' D 3 4 2 0 3,!;$7 3.42 3.26 ·~ 'Z '.

Supplement to Concordiensis- Parw B uNiON COLLEIE CaURSE EVALUATION CAll SEC ·COURS! TYPF 120o13·o1 120014~.o1 120020-01 120025-01 120 o.3 2 -o 1 140030·01 16001!l-01 160020·01 160040-01 160131-01 180022-01 180029-01 200010-01 2200111-01 220143-0l 240010-01 240010-02 240010-03 240010-04 240010-05 240011-01 240131-01 240131-02 240132-01 240133-01 240134q01 240133-01 240143-01 260010-01 260013-o1 2601'15-01 260015-02 260121-0:1. 260124-01 260130-01 260144-01 260153-01 260160-0i 260166-01 260167-01 260171-01 2601 7L01 260175-01 2801i10~01 2801)14-01 280035-01 280064-01 280124-()1 280127-01 280143-01 280158-01 280187~01 280194-0:t. 30001o~ot 320010-01 320012-01 320062-01 320131-IH ART~ AR'l'-. ART- ART- ART- DRM- MUS ... MUS- MUS- MUS- CtS- CLS- GRK- LAT- LAT- Eco- Eco- ECO• ECO- ECO- ECO- ECO- ECO· ECCl- ECO- ECO- ECO ... ECO- EGL- EGL- EGL- EGL\ 013 l::t 014 ~ 020 ~ 25 R 032 R 030 R 010 R 020 R 040 ·R 131 q 022 R 029 R 010 R 010 R 143 R 010 R 010 R 010 R 010 R 010 R 011 R 131 q 131 \ R 132 R 133 q 134 R 1:58 R 143 R 010 R 013 \' 015 q 015 \' 121 'l 124 q 130 q 144 q 1'33 q 160 hi 166 q 167 q ·EGL- EGL- EGL- EGL .. EGLc EGI..~ EGL- EGL- EGL- EGL- EGL .. HS'l'- 1-jS?~ 1-jS'f- HSY- HSf• HS'I'- HS\i'\ HSl'- HS'I'· HST· Ci-1!- II'RNw j:\RN\ tRN\ rRNo 171 q 173 q 175 q 010 q 014 q 035 Q 064 q 124 q 1?7 q 143 q 158 q 187 q 194 q 010 q 010 q 012 q 062 q 131 q DESCRIPTION BASIC 2.;.0 DESIGN GRAPHICS I ~ROBLeMS IN A~T I ~RiNTMAK!NG SCULPTURE 1 ACT!NGI MOVEMENT l~fRonuCTN TO MUSIC M~SIC COMPOSITI~N I BASIC KEYBRO HMM I B~RQQUE ERA MUS!C MtST ~DM&·REPUBL1C GRKAROMAN EPIC POETy P~!NcPLES OP IREEK P R Y N.C Y PLE S OF LA T l N RMAN DRAMA ELEMEN ECONOMICS ELEMEN ECONOMICS ELEMEN ECONOMICS EtEMEN ECONOMICS ELEMEN ECON(}M!CS El EMEN ECONOMICS I I MfCRO!:CONOM!C ANALVS MiCROECONOMIC ANALVS L~80R A~D INDUST REL Gnvr ~CONOM!C POLICV PTNANCIAL A~ALrSIS O~ANT MET~ODS IN ECO EtaNOMIC ~EVELOPMENT EMGL LIT: M~D & REN At-11;R I CAN AUTHORS lNTRQ TO LifERATURE INTRO TO LITERATURE EiRLY AME~ICAN NOVEl CONTEMP AMER riCTION ELEME~TS OF STYLE AI,ITOB!OGRAPNY EARLY SHA~ESPEARE 1~E EARLY ROMANTICS ~no E~GL!SH F!c?!DN \lf}!:JERI\J DRAMA STUDIES I '.J POET~Y STUn!ES I~ rtcTfON CRE;ATIVE 1!/Rf'fiNG CnLON!AL AMERIC~ HST EMERG~CS OF MOO AMER 1A~i7 C6N EUR SOC1ET SPAlN & PORT IN AMER fWe NEGRO IN AMERIC~ AMERICN ECON DEVELMT 3~0 R~PUB·DE GAULLE R~SSI~N I~PER!AL ArnE MnDERN JEWISH HIST HYST SMNRI!MP~RIALSM BASiC CHI\JESE I BAS!C FRE\'C~ I BASIC F\RENC~ Ill Mnry F\~E~CH 7NTELCTLS S~qVEV OF FREMC~ LIT INSTRUCTOR MOORHEAD .A_ !3 I TTL EM AN P BITTLEMAN ~'I'ECK.LER MOORHEAD f;lAR~V SMITH WILSON CURTIS ClJRiiS WILSON REECE SORUM TESTROET SORUM 'TESTROET ~ERMAN \'ERMAN ~ENT PH AUP SHlJLM AN PRQSF'E~ LI.JR IE KENNEY PROSPER SHULMAN KENT PH AUP LEE STEVENSON ST!NESACK NE'LSON 1t1 MURP~><y STI NEBACK 11 ALLE\' NFL. SON KILBURN ~~ MURPJ.iy fREUI\JD SHINAGEL ULLMAN\' S'i'EVENSON i.1AD6 MANSF'!ELD !:!ELLS .JONAS HANSEN 11RISTOL @OTiS f!NKELSTE!I\J fjANSEN !3ERK aERK f!NKELSTE!N ~DO THOMAS l.iO!JIH! GE '!'HOM AS L.E CLERC UNiON COLLEGE COURSE EVAl.UAT I ON CALl. SEC COURS11i TV~E DESC~!PT!ON IliSTRUCTOR 3~o1:s6 .. CI1 F'RN .. 136 ~ r~~NCH AF~ICAN LIT \OURA!GE 32Q{Hnlh f'RN\ Hi ~ 17 CNT PRENCH TMEAT~ LE CLERC U1135·b1 F'IHJ~ 135 ~ PRENC\' LANG A9ROAD QOBERTS 321147-01 F'RN- 147 ~ STYLIST! cs ROBERTS H0010-Cl1 GER- 010 ~ BASIC GER\iAN I KL.EMM 340012-01 GE~- 012 q BASIC GERMAN ! I l KL.EI'IM 34006tl.Q1 GE~· 060 ~ IDEAl T SM IN GE~M LIT l!JAROE 340140-01 GER· 140 ~ EARL !I!R GERMA~l LIT ~ARElt: 350010-51 HEB~ 010 q BASIC HEBI:lEW l WELKOV!CS 3~0010-01 RUS· 010 ~ 8/.S!C RUSSfAN I .JERNAKDH 38001El-01 SPN~ 010 R BASIC SPA~ISH I VI NICK 35001QMI)2 SP\'- 010 q BA«;!C SPA\JlSH I RIGGIO 380012-01 SPN- 0:12 q BASfC SPA>.JISN III VI NicK 380130-!11 SPN- 130 q CO\JTE4P SPA~[SH LIT R!Gr&!D 380141-01 SPN· 141 q 19 CE\iT'f SPI>.N!Siol Ll'f RIGGIO 400011-01 PHL~ 011 Q P~LOSOPH!:L C~ASSICS EL..LI STON 400012-01 PHL- 012 ~ P~!~OSO~HICAL PROBS .. L'DW! G 400013-01 P>-~L- 013 q ~r\l!C~ SAKER 400015~01 PHL- 015 q PwtL ~ EX!STENTL LIT El..li STIJN l\001'12!l-01 PHL~ 020 q C1 ASS!CAL LOGIC \ltTTERL 1 \G <i100030~01 PI-lL- 030 Q CiR>=FK PH!LOSOPHV IJE'fTERLl \JG o~OOD 34 ·0 1 PI-lL· 034 q Al,it\L'!''i'J~ OH!LOSDPHy b.LIOW!G 400rl61:~01 Phi..- c ll '· Q Pin: oSOPHv DF QEt,IGN .. L.DWIG 42ont0-01 PS . OiO q C0'-41'Aq pt\l' ' v AIIIALYS 'nCHOLC) ur....o 420n10-c2 PS ~ 010 q Cll>.!~'Aq t:!Cli.!'f ANA:_YS tlDARD 4~0010-03 PS ~ no q Cn•H'AC'i fiOL! 7 Ar>~Al. YS t:lCARf'l 420011-01 PS J11 tl AMI=R POL!i'!CL SVSTEM I!IACIRA4 420020-01 PS Q 020 Q PnLIT!CL, 11AYA AIIJALVS rt.ARTW!G 4~0143-01 PS ~ 143 ~ LAr AMER POL svsrEMa ~!CHOU 420155-01 PS - 1'55 q YNTFR~L POL BE~AVIOR NORMAN WAL.AEK 420156-01 PS ~ 156 q f N TL ORGA\-J&WRLD PLTS NORMAN WALBEK 420157-01 PS - 157 q PnL!T!CS 'JF E EUROPE GATI 420163-0l PS - 163 R PnL!TICAL PARTIES 'f'IDMARCI-I 420170-51 PS - 170 R CiVIL LIBER!TIES I-JELL HOUSE 42018:J-01 PS - 183 ':( SEXUAL POLITICS .JANCAR 421010-01 PS 010 ~ Ctl\'fiAR PQL(T ANALYS 1-!ART~IG - NICHOLS - \ CARLILE 440010-01 SOC· 010 ~ lNTRO TO SOCIOLOGY 440037-01 soc- 037 'l UR8.AN COMMUNI Tv GRACEY 440136-(11 soc- 136 R SnC MOVEMTS&BEHAVIOR ~ERNETTE 440140-01 soc- 140 q C.nMMU\JCTN&SOC STRUCT CARLILE 441010-0l so e. 010 q !NTRD TO SOCIOLOGY GRACEY 460010-.01 STA- 010 n !~JTRO STATISTICS HANNAN 460201-51 STA- 201 R PR'18 ~ STATISTICS MIRABILE 470211-51 AM 211 R !NTRO MANAGERL ACCTG KAIJTH - 470211-52 AM - 211 R INTRO MANAGERL ACCTG ROy 480062-01 AM$~ 062 q AM ~TUDIES JR SEMINR p ALLE\J 490-010-01 ACC· 010 ~ ACCDU~T~G PRINt!PLES KAIJTH 510013-01 BIO~ 013 q BiOLOGY or ~LANfS TOBIESSEN 510014-01 BI\~ 014 ~ ANIMLS•OR!GYN&OVRSTV ROTH 510015-01 BIO- 015 q GF\JFT!CS & EVOLUTION aunEL- c-;if~ 510021-01 BID- 021 q BY:JLOGICAL COMM ANAL DALGLEISH 510021-01 BIO- 021 q 9IOLOG!CAL COMM ANAL 'f'OBIESSEN 510022-01 8!0- 022 R ~=\iELD STUDY I SPECIES DALGLEISH 510022-01 9!0- 022 q F'i~LD STUDY! SPECIES TDB!ESSEN 510032·01 sro- 032 R Bi~L oF VERTEBRATES llUTTERSTE!N ENR RPT PCT 10 1i 9 5 21 7 70% 1 9% 9 100\ D 0~ 0 0¥ 1'1 23. 0 0% 22 95\ 7 77\ 6 65% 10 11U 9 ., \ 29 19 65\ II 4 9 4 30 44 47 41 20 37 17 28 49 1.8 14 11' 10 24 24 1l Ht 23 22 . 9 ~ 14 5 12 20 16 u 12 49 41 15 18 34 28 20 30 21.1 '! 14 24 1!:'1 6 22 ENR 14 15 25 10 19 1' \ 5 36 12 22 141 11 13 9 7 21 1a a 17 11 s 2S 29 33 2t; 24 19 1B 23 17 23 40 22 18 0 O% 0 ox 7 77% 0 ox 24 .80~ 36 BU 39 B2% ~9 95X 13 65% 0 0% 0 0% 26 92% 0 0\ 14 77~ 12 85X . 0 Ol 0 0% 19 79% 21 87% 0 0% 0 0% 16 69% 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 0 Ol& 6 120% 10 83% 18 90% :14 an 0 0% 10 83% :55 7:U 39 95% 15 100% 17 94% • 29 85% o o% 15 75% 22 73X 21 ll7\ 0 O% 13 92% 24 100,. 13 S6% 6 100~ 0 O% RFIT PCf 13 9211: 5 33\ 0 0\ 0 0\ 18 942: 16 1062: 6 1001'( 5 1001C 0 0\ 1'2 100% 19 86¥ 11 78% 9 8U 12 92% 6 66~ 7 lOOt 14 66% 12 65% 8 100% 11 64% 9 81% 0 0% 23 ft2% 25 86% 0 0% 0 0% 18 75% 18 94% 15 83% 14 60% 12 70% 22 95% a ox 0 0~ 0 O% 29 26 89\ 34 32 94'i 11 11 100% 15 11 73'-' 6 5 83% 14 14 10:0\ 13 0 0% 33 0 0% 35 0 0% l\ 0 0% 19 0 o:c 31 b d% 40 35 87% 98 82 83% 5~ 48 85~ 7 0 0~ ' 0 0% 9 0 0% 9 0 0% Union Colle2e Course \Evaluation F\ALL TERM 1973 • 74 A 6 2 0 1 7 B ,;s 3 2 1 c 1 6 4 2 1 0 5 2 1 2 9 0 1 3 1 3 4 7 D F'. COURSE INST''A WORK 11 6 2 3 3 6 1 1 3 2 13 6 13 18 12 6 j. 14 :! 8 12 a J 7 3 5 5 0 c 3 Iii :1 1 !; 4 3 4 l 3 6 5 d ~ 5 ~ ~ 3 :§ 4 ~ 4 11 '7 0 \ FALL A 6 ~ 1 5 8 6 ~ 2 1tl 6 5 2 2 6 !i 1 2 9 0 5 4 1 d J J 3 8 7 1 9 7 7 u 3 2 2 12 3 1 2 t u 21 23 18 9 9 6 8 20 7 5 7 6 13 13 7 3 9 10 3 4 1 p 4 u 10 5 2 16 20 4 11 H 17 6 16 10 5 6 8 5 5 11 TERM B 2 6 12 3 6 5 4 3 8 4 - !1.0 5 3 7 2 3 16 5 7 7 5 6 15 5 10 7 10 9 9 9 tO 7 12 23 13 4 ' 8 4 12 14 6 12 6 1i 12 1 6 :t 1 2 5 3 8 9 a 3 2 7 0$' 4 3 2 2 0 25- 12 6 1 9 1 7 9 9 0 3 1 3 1 6 1973 c 4 6 12 2 3 3 0 0 12 2 4 6 4 0 1 3 3 0 0 4 2 1 9 17 16 16 4 1 7 4 0 4 2 4 3 8 9 12 10 3 5 2 0 0 Q 0 3 0 ~ ·0 D 0 0 0 1 1 0 1 1 0 1 1 :! 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 D o 'D 0 • 0 3 D 2 rl 2 0 I 0 1 0 5 0 Q 0 0 0 1 1 0 0 1! 0 0 tl 1 1 1 2 a o c 0 a o 0 0 1 0 0 0 1 0 ::l, 0 il 1 1 0 0 0 2 1 s 1 0 1 1 f.l 13 / 1 I 2 1 0 1 0 1 0 0 c Ci 1 0 81 0 0 0 0 1 0 - 74 D F 1' 0 0 0 0 0 a 0 1 1 1 () 0 0 0 tl 0 0 0 0 2 1 1 0 2 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 D 0 I} 0 a 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 2 2 0 0 0 0 2 0 1 0 1 0 0 1 0 0 2 0 0 i 0 1 0 0 1 1 0 2 1 0 3 8 4 . 0 0 2 1 2 0 0 1 5 4 3 1 3 3 1 4 2 12 12 9 0 0 11 13 5 J 0 0 1 3 0 0 2 9 6 1 0 ~ 11 6 8 0 9 14 12 J 2 22 35 34 5 1 13 32 10 1 Q, 2 5 0 0 0 ~ 5 0 0 0 2 4 2 0 0 2 4 2 0 0 4,57 4,17 2.11 I N'Stlf'F' l C I EN T R!:•!JPONSE ~.22 2,22 2.22 .NQ R!iSPONSE '· NO IU!-SPO.NSE . NO RESPONSE 4,63 4.86 3.09 4 , ·f2 • • a~ 3 • 5 7 4.~0 1.33 3.50 4,00 4.20 ~.40 3,84 4,42 2,73 NO R.SSPONSE NO Rl!SPONSE •.oo 4.~o 3.28 NO ~E$PONSt: ~ ., o a 4 • 33 3, 11 3,97 4o22 3o27 3.$~ J,76 1.76 4 t 12 •• 60 :.L 05 2,84 2.92 2.84 NO ReSPONSE NO RiSI'ONSE 4,30 4,50 3,69 NO IHiSF'ONSE 3,28 3.28 3,14 -.~3 •• 18 3,36 NO RijS.PONS.E NO R&SPONSE ··~' 4,84 3.47 4.19 4.!7 3.57 NO RfJSPONSE NO RNSPONSE 4,to 4,12 3,56 NO R!!SF'CNSE IIJO R!!SP.QNSE NO ReSPONS£; !VO RtiiSP.tJNSE! •.~s •.as J.oo 4,~0 4,50 3,80 ~.16 4.~1 3,22 a,a1 t,a5 ~.85 ii!O Rf!SPONSE 4,~0 ~.oo ~.4o 4,!1 ~.51 3,37 3,89 J.at 3.35 4,~0 •• 33 3.2~ 4,e3 4•11 3.23 4,10 4o34 3,44 NO Ri!SI'ONSE 4,40 4.86 3.46 4,81 4.72 ~.72 ~.9o s.oo J.so NO R!iSPOMSE 4,30 4o46 4,07 4,45 4o91 3;08 4,23 4o30 3.15 4o50 4o83 3,33 NO RUPON.SE COUiiiSE INSTR WORK 3,61 .s.oe 2. 76 INSUFFICIENT RESPONSE NO RE!SF'ONSE NO Rf:!SPONSE 4,16 4.50 3.33- 3,50 4.18 3.50 4,00 4.50 J.16 4,$0 4.20 3,60 NO RESPONSE 4,08 4,66 3,27 3,!'i2 3.84 J. 63 3,63 4.27 3.54 4,22 4.11 3,55 3,75 3,41 3,50 3 ,3,6 3.oo 3,50 4.!ii7 4. i4 4,14 :5,?3 4.14 3.50 3,08 3,75 2.83 4,37 3,75 3.25 3,90 4,18 2.50 4,55 4,44 3,'35 ~0 RESPONSE 3,39 4,04 3,34 4,56 4,68 3.84 NO R!:lS-PONSE NO RESPONSE 3,1<14 3,61 3,05 4,05 4j ·11 3.88 4,40 4,86 3.86 3, ~H 3.42 3.50 3,91 4.25 4.33 3,95 3,95 3:38 NO RESPONSE NO RESPONSE NO RESPONSE 4,38 4.50 4.00 3' 09 3.21 3,21 3,54 3,72 3,45 3,36 3,63 3,45 3,40 3.20 2,40 2,92 3.15 3.28 NO Ri!SPONSE NO R~SPONSE NO RESPONSE NO RE!SPON.SE NO RESPONSE NO RElSPONSE 3,62 4.08 3.51 3,68 3,85 3.52 3,54 3,61 3,85 7i 66 92% 13 37 11 9 1 4,30 4.36 J,7o un: '.- ,} .,. ..• • i ·I> ~ ~

Union College Cour$e Evaluation Supplement to Concordiensis - Page C uNiON COLLEGE GOlJRSE EVALUATION FiLL TERM 1973 ~ 74 CALL SEC COURSE TV !=IE DBC~IPHOI>I INSTRUCTOR ENFI RPT PCT l 8 c I) F' COUBS~ INSTR WORK 5i·0052-01 BIO\ 052 ~ MA·R IN·E BIOLOGY' G.EORGE u 0 ax ' B 0 0 0 NO RISPONSE · StOI'L52~01 8 ro- 052 'R MARINE BIOLOG'i' LA·MBERT 13 0 ox !5 a 0 0 0 NO RUI'ONSE 510145 ... 01 8!0· 1115 R flRO'I'OtOOLoG.V STYLES 28 25 89X 8 15 5 0 D 3_. •a 3.60 3,36 510153 ... 01 810~ 153 R I\6VANCED E~OLDI!i'f lOBI ESSEN 22 19 86tl 4 15 3 D D 4 .u 4,26 3,<42 520013~01 !310- Ot3 l. BirH nfly OF' Cl A.Nf ~ \ll1REC 11 A 36 31 e6~ ;s.n 4,03 3,46 .. '· ~ J% NO P!ISPON$E 520014.:01 B!O· 014 L. 1\ N I M L S- 0 R l G I N &lllf RS T Y iifVLES 18 0 Ot; NO RUPONSE 520014-02 8!0- 014 L. A~IMLS~ORI;IN&DV~STV GeORGE 24 16 66\ 3,90 3. 20 3, S1 S20P1A .. o4 BIO· 014 L 1\NI ML$ .. 0RYG I N&DifRSTV BOYE~ .\ 22 40 U!U: 2.;), 2,35 ~.95 520014•05 BJ.O .. tJ14 L. ANfML5-GR!G!N~~~RSTV :BOYER 16 16 HI a\ 3,06 3.06 3,4:5 520·015~01 8!0• 015 L. GF'\JETICS & EVDt:.LJTI ON :ooYE:R 15 13 86% 3. 3•0 :..46 II , 1!1 520015-02 SIO~ 015 1.. ~EI\IET I CS & EVDUJTl ON ~U'fZEL 16 13 8U 4,15 •• 3:5 4,1)0 520015 ... 03 810· 015 t. GE\!ETICS ~ EVQUIJH ON ' u 11 lln 3, Ul :!I,?D 4,18 520015·04 B I 0• . 015 L GE\'ETICS & EV~.t.lJH ON aurzEL 16 0 ox NO RfSPONSE 5\2 0 032-01 8!0., 0:32 l. BTOL OF' VERlEBRA..cTES 6UHERSTE IN u 19 105% 4,~, 4,42 i,16 520032-03 Bin- 032 L. BiOL OF V ER T'EBRJ .. TES BU'rTERSTEIN 17 16 94~ 4,31 4.50 1.75 520032~04 8Jr) .. 032 1.. B f OL or VERTEBRUES BUTTERSTE IN 18 16 88\ ·;~., \. 62 1.18 520145-02 BlO• 145 L_ PiWTOZ:OOL-DGV P 'I'YLES 10 8 8·0\ 4,!7 4.50 2,75 520145-03 810- 145 L .P Rr) To ZQ OUIG Y STYLES H 9 B1~ ~.~:5 '' 11 3.00 54oo1o~D1 CHM~ 010 ~ F'tJ\'D C:HEM I S'I'RV' I SCtdF'E 26 23 aa,; 6 5 10 4 1 3,119 •• 43 i,69 540010~02 CHM- 010 q F'LJIIJD 'trHEMI ~TRY 't WEtCK 2B 26 92% 10. 8 7 2 1 3,11 2,80 ,88 540010-03 Cl'lt-1~ 010 ~ F' lJIIJ D CHEMISTRY 't SCAIF'E 29 28 96% 3 14 8 s 1 3,35 4.29 3,85 540010-04 C:HM- 010 ~ r:'[JIIlf) CHEMISTRit r WEICK 2'! 25 92% 1 10 12 J 1 3,84 2.76 3,72 540010.-05 CI'IM~ 010 q F'LJ\'fl CHEM IS fR\\ r WANG 21) 21 72% 6 12 8 2 1 3,D4 3,70 4,04 540030-01 CH'-1~ 030 ~ ORGANIC C~EMIST~Y J. SHEFFER 46 37 80% H 12 15 3 0 ·3,!1 S,51 4,51 540 030-02 CHM- OJO R OR(;AN!C CHEMISTRY I ioiULL 55 45 a a 17 19 15 4 c 3,77 •• 47 4,73 ?40040-01 CHM- 040 R 00A~TITAT!VE C~EM SCI'IAEFER 2~ 16 72\ 4 12 6 0 0 3,61 4.12 :L1Il 54 o us ~o 1 CHI'~. 118 q INoRGANic.c~.EM rr WEICK 11 10 90% . :Jl 4 3 0 0 3,60 3 .·50 2.90 540:1,52-01 CHM- 152 R PHYSICAL CHEM n JROSCH ·1\ 17 89% 8 '5 4 a 0 3,•U 3.!52 3,76 550010-01 CHM~ 01 0 L F' ll\1 0 CHEM!S'I'R'r t ill E.! C K 24 0 0~ NO RISPIONSE 550 010-02 CHM- 010 L F' ll Ill D CHEMISTRY t liANG 22 20 <;10% 3,U 4,1!5 :§,65 55 0 01.0 ~ll4 Ci-1~1- 010 1.. r:\LJ.\JO CHEM!STR't'! SUTTER 26 0 0% NO ReSPONSE 550010-05 CHM~ 010 L. rt'r'IJ o CHEM!SiR'r f. SUTTt:R 21 13 61% 3,68 ~4, ll4 13,07 550010-06 CH4~ 010 L. rt'J\'D CHEMIS'I'Rif' t w MARTIN 24 23 95% 3,95 4. 73 3.52 550o3o~o1 CH\'- 030 L. .ORGAN l C C4EM[STr.!y HULL 17 0 0~ NO Ri:!SI'ONSE 55oo30-o2 CHMw·030 L 0RflANlC CloofEM!STRY SHEFFER 14 12 35% 3,90 4·00 3.66 550030-04 CHt~~ 030 l, ORGANIC C>lEMISTRY WANG 15 6 40% INSUrf'ICtEill'f t:IESPONSE 550030-05 CHM~ 030 L DRr;AN!C c ~EM 1 Srl'l?v 5HE:FF'EI'I :!.4 12 85% 3,66 3.8:5 3.50 550o3o-o6 CHM- 030 l, ORr.ANIC c WE M [STR'Y ~1ART!N 17 13 76% 3.92 4·30 :;.76 550030~07 CH'1- 030 L ORGANIC C »~·EM! Sr~v ~ANG 12 15 125% 4 • iH.l 13,73 3,86 550030-08 c.r~\'~- 030 L. ORGANIC C\'EMIST~Y HULL 15 8 53% 3,3'7 4.25 4.00 550040-02 c H'-1- 040 L. Q[JA 'liT IT AT I.VE CH~M GCHAEFER 1i 11 100% 4,27 4.36 2,18 550152-02 CHM- 15 2 L P~vSJC:AL CHEM n 'SUTTER. 10 8 80% 3,25 :?.62 il,Sfl 560010~01 CHM~ 010 I( r:'t.J\l 0 C:HEM!S'I'R\\ 'f 5CAIF'E 141. 112 79!1; 3,42 .1,09 :ll,a3 610010-01 GEO- 010 ~ P~~vs r CAl ':iEOLOG.,.. ZIMMER\A\ 42 17 40% 7 20 12 ~ 0 !NSLJHICIEN·i f:tES!30NSE 61012o~o1 GEo~ 120 1 RFCE'N'l' SE'Jl\'EN ENVIR ZlMMER\AN 4 0 O% 3 1 0 B 0 NO R!HiflONSE 6200:1:0-01 GEO~ 010 L P~vs I CAL GEOLOG\\' Z!Mt<iERMAI>J 36 0 Q% NO R!!SPONSE 620120-01 GEO- 120 I. Rr::CEN'I' SE!)[MEN ENV!R liMMERt->AN 4 0 0% NO Flf,!SFIONSE 640010-01 MHI~ 010 q CALCULUS I MADDAUS 34 26 76~ 14 9 7 2 2 4,19 4,57 :s .19 640010-02 t-1 TH- 01 0 q CALCULUS J fiE P<EN 30 21 70% B 8 5 .;1 5 3,61 :!J, 7l. :3.19 64 0 010 ··03 MTH- 01 0 q CALCULUS I fAIRCHILD 31 29 93% '7 7 12 ~ 1 3,44 :'J,S2 3.31 640010-04 \MTI-l~ 010 >< CALCULUS I SE!KEN 38 31 81% 6 10 13 7 2 3,61 3.93 3. H> 640010-05 MTH- 01 0 ~ CALCULUS ! REyNOL,DS HI 16 88% 5 8 3 1 1 ~.68 3.87 3.06 640010-06 MTJ:.l- 010 R CALCULUS ! STONF 30 23 7611: 7 4 8 (; 5 3,,!5 .s.:s~ 3,56 640010-01 M TJ~- 01 0 q CALCULUS I ~lNG 25 25 100\ i 12 4 i 1 <!,DO a,4a 3.16 640010-08 MTH- 010 R CALCULUS I LOUGHLIN 27 25 92% g 9 7 1 2 4.i52 •'lo 60 3.92 640012-01 MTH- 012 R CALCULUS !! h!NG 26 23 88% 10 9 6 1 0 3,9!3 •• 21 3.39 640012-02 MTH- 012 R CALCULUS I I GILLETTE 24 22 91% '7 11 4 it 0 3,40 :S.86 :s. 27 UNiON COLLEGE ~OURSE EVA~UAT!OtiJ FALL lERM 1973 - 74 OALL. SEC COURSE TVPE DESCRI!=ITlON INSTRUCTOR ENR RPT PCT A B c D F' COURSE lNSTR WORK 640014•01 MTI-!• 014 ~ CALCULUS !II fORNGA 24 0 on :3 5 11 4 0 1\JO R~SPONSE 6400.14•02 MT~· 014 q C~~C:ULUS III 13ICK 22 18 B1~ 5 7 8 1 1 3,94 •• 35 3.22 640014-03 MTiol• 014 R CALCULUS II! STONE 28 25 !!9~ 3 9· 7 5 4 3,60 4.32 J.76 640thS·01 MTI-I• 018 R l~fRD LOGIC ~seT T~ ~OWGHLt N 11 9 au \ 2 2 3 0 4,44 4. 77 3.66 640QJ0 .. 01 MTI-l• 030 ~ ORD!N OIFP EQ~A~l~NS ~EA·CH 27 24 88% 1' 4 3 4. 0 3,66 4.16 J.oo .640041·01 MT!o!• 041 ~ L.tNEAR ALGEE!RA l MADDAUS 17 15 ea:,; 8 4 4 1 0 3,26 3.53 3,33 640041~02 MTI-l· 041 R LiNEAR ALGEBRA 1 aEVNOLDS 13 11 84% 8 2 2 0 1 3,09 3.27 3.27 640101-01 MT~- 101 R A6V CALC F'OR iNGlNRS fORNGA ' 0 0% 2 1 2 2 tl NO R!'!SPONSE 640136-01 MT~ .. 136 R REAL VARIABLES 1 fAlRC~!LD 16 12 75% 6 5 3 1 1 2. 91 3.50 4.00 640170.et MTM- 110 q 'I'OPOLOGY t BICK 10 10 100% 4 2 1 J! 0 3,50 4, JO 3,30 660013~01 f!HV• 013 R INTR(l f-'HYSICS I l C SWARTZ 28 24 S5~ 7 17 3 0 0 3,66 ti,66 2.91 610011•01 PHV .. 011 R l~TRG PHYSICS I 'fiTUS 15 10 66% 5 4 5 1 0 3,40 J,7Q 3.60 6'10013-tll PI·Pt .. 013 ~ l~TRG PHySICS I l SCHICK 27 23 85% 6 9 11 l 0 3,,2 3,78 3,47 6'l'001S.fl1 PJ.lV• 015 R MODERN PHVS ICS I t;iOSLE 9 0 0% 1 4 3 (j 0 NO RESPONSE 610121m01 PH¥• 121 ~ AT~<HlS!!'HER!C PllivS!CS WINBSQR s· 8 tOO% 1 4 3 0 0 3,62 3,75 3,00 670128~01 fl'l-l'l'~ 128 l:t lNStRUMN fOR $c1&~ED L.EwiS 8 8 100% 3 3 ? 0 0 :5,12 3,00 3,50 6'70132~01 PHV· 132 l:t ElECT a MAGNETISM I W SCHWARZ '3 0 0% 3 2 0 0 0 NO ReSr>ONSE 610140 .. h PHV• HO q YNTRO QUA~YUM MEC~AN C .JO\JES 9 0 0% 2 5 1 0 1 1\JO RgSPONSE 680Q119C1 PHV,. OH ~ I riJT~O TO PHVS lc'S· I T lTUS 17 9 52% 2,88 3,77 3,33 eaOOU-01 PHVA 013 l. INTRO PHV!ilCS [ l PlLCflE~ 18 11 61% 3,18 3 .18 3. 27 6800U.02 fl'H¥- 013 l. !NTr.IO PHY~ICS ( 1 PI!...CHER 21 14 66% 3,14 3.69 3,07 680013-0::l PHV .. 013 l. !NTRO PHY'ilCS ( l C SWAR'l'Z 17 16 94% 3,!16 11.50 3. 12 1580(l1!:i·01 PMYP 015 I. Mf'lt:JERN PHYSICS ! CiOBLE ~ a 0% NO Rf!SPO~SE 660132-0:1. PHV• 132 I. ELECTilMAGt.JE'Y! SM I b S C l·l\.fA R l 5 0 0% NO RE SPO~SE 71001.0-6:1. PSV- 0:!.0 R !N'i'RO PSYt;HOLOG'I riUNTt.EV 21 0 Q•i 13 9 7 5 2 ~0 RESPONSE .. 710010-02 PS't\~ 010 li l N1'PO PSYCHOL OG V NEW!o4AN 36 0 0% 4 12 16 ~ 0 NO RESPONSE '710010-03 PSV~ 010 R !~TRO PSYCHOLOGY CALABRIA 33 28 R4% 6- 8 12 5 ? 3,32 3.28 3,03 '.- ~ 7i0010-04 I'SY~ OlD !:! !Ni'RQ P5YCHtlL0GV PEARCE 9 0 Q% 2 1 5 0 0 NO RE SF'ONSE H0024-01 pgy .. 024 q SOCIAl PS~CHOLOGY IIIEw,..AN 36 0 0% 6 15 10 4 1 NO RfiSPONSE 710030-01 ~»sv- 030 q THEORY, OF PER sn NAL TV t.RAVES 38 0 0% 2 16 14 5 0 NO R!!SPONSE 710031~61 Psv~ 031 q ABNORMAL PS'ICHDLOGV PEARCE Q 0 0% 4 3 2 0 0 NO RESPQNS.E 7:i.0031!~01 PS¥~ 0:58 R CHILO PSYCHOLOGY f'IANCY WALBEK 31 --c2 70% 5 14 10 1 0 3,50 2.66 3.90 J .. 710041-01 PS¥~ 041 ~ H~~AN!STIC PSYC~DlGV CAL.ABRIA 31 0 0% 13 11 7 0 0 NO R~SPONSE 710042 ... 01 Psv- 0~2 R MENTAL lES'I'!fti~ PEARCE 6 0 0% 1 5 0 0 0 NO R~SPONSE 71004!5-0i Psv- 045 R EXPER!M PSYCKOLGY II J.IUNTLEV 10 0 0% 6 4 0 0 0 NO RESPONSE 71004tt~01 PS'fo 046 ~ P~YS!OLOG!CL ~S VC HOL l:lERTHCL.D 32 0 0% 11 7 14 0 0 NO RESPONSE .} . .;,. 710048-01 PSV• o•8 q CllNtCAL ~SVCHOLGY I iHl'WLl NG 29 0 0% 10 16 3 0 0 NO RetSPONSE 7100!50-01 Psv .. 090 R EOUCA1'ION.L PS VG HO LG\' GIRDNER 20 0 0% 7 9 3 1 0 NO RESPONSE 710062~01 PSV- 062 ~ C~ !LD STUD¥ I Glt<ONER 1~ 0 O% (I 5 8 0 Cl NO RE SPOIIISE 71006~-01 PS¥• 064 R PSYCHOL SEN I ~1\R I (l!RllNE~ 12 0 0% 5 • 3 0 0 lllO R~SPONSE 711Q10~01 FSV· 010 R !~'!'RO PSVCHOLOSV I:JERTHOLD 22 0. O!l 5 17 0 0 0 NO RESPONSE 711010-02 PS'I- 010 ~ l NTRO PSVCHOl..OG V NANCY WALBEK 20 0 0% !'I B 3 1 0 NO RESPONSE 720045-01 PSY~ 0\15 l. E~PERlM PSYC~OLGY ll ~UNTLEV 10 0 0% NO RESPONSE HOQ10-01 ES .. 010 R lNfRO ENGIN SVST~S 1 \OOOHEART 27 0 0~ 6 14 4 a 1 NO R6SPONSE ..• • 740Q10~D1 ES .. 010 R !liJ'I'RQ .ENG IN SYS Tto1S l AUBREY 27 0 0% 8 1-i 4 0 1 NO RUF'ONSE 740010-02 ES - 010 R lNi'RO ENGIN SVSTt.'IS 1 AUBREY 28 0 0% .., 12 6 :! 1 NO R~SF'ONSE 740010-02 E.S • 010 R l~tRn ENG!N SV~Tt.'IS 1 G OO.DHEA RT 28 0 0% 7 12 6 2 1 NO RtiSF'ONSE 740010•03 ES - 010 f1 lN+RO ENG!N SYS~~S 1 l:i l5ENS'I'ADT 29 27 9 3% '5 12 7 4 1 3,07 2.25 4,22 740010-03 ES .. 010 R !~fRO ENG!N SY&fMS 1 ~ALANTOWICZ 29 27 93X 5 12 7 4 1 3,48 3.88 3' 07 7tf001C.OI4 ES • 010 R t~TRO ENG!N SYstMS 1 GALANTnWICZ 22 22 100~ 3 B 8 3 0 4,45 4,72 2,90 740010.04 ES • 010 R tNTRO ENG!N SVSTMS 1 \EISENSTADT 22 0 0% ~ 8 8 3 ~ NO RESPONSE 740013-01 ES w 013 i:l E~ECTR!C CIRCU1TS INGVARSSON 7 0 on 0 6 0 0 1 NO RESPONSE 740020.;01 ES .. 020 R Mr;C~ANiC:S PANULIO 27 25 92% 2 4 13 $ 0 2,52 2,56 4,64 !,_ ~ 740·Q22~01 ES .. 022 R set OF' ll:NGIN MA.TERLS PO iTER 2B 26 92% 6 12 10 Q 0 3,42 4.15 3.50 740026 .. 01 ES .. 026 R THERMO ovN&I-4EAr rRsv KETCHUM 28 26 92% 7 13 5 i 2 3,07 3,30 3.23 740030-01 ES .. 030 R MFCH OF D!FOR S~l..IDS MASON 32 JO Q3% 3 14 14 1 ll 3,10 3,20 3,40 H02Q1 .. !51 ES :!\ 2il1 f:! r:RAV D!F~RtCTrnN I? OTTER 5 0 0% 2 3 0 0 0 NO ReSPONSE ~ 7!J0020-o1 es • 020 ~ MeCHANICS PANL.tL!O 27 0 ot: NO R!SPONSE

Supplement to Concordiensis - Page D CALL SEC COURSE 750030-01 ES .. OJO noo2o~o1 CE - 020 710042-fJi CE - 0·42 770045·01 CE . 04~ 770045-02 CE - 0·45 780042-01 CE - 042 810030-01.· EE - 030 810042-01 EE - 042 - ' 3C:0042-01 EE . 042 820042-02 EE . 042 820042.03 EE - 042 840001-01 ME 0.01 840120-51 HE . 120 840234-51 ME - 234 87001'0-01 cs - 010 870012-01 cs . 012 870020-01 cs - 020 870128 .. 51 cs - 128 870330-151 '1 . c:s - 130 870242-51 cs - 242 UNiON COLLEGE eouRSE EVAL.UATION l'VPE DESCRIPTION INSTRUCTOR liN~ t. MecH Or 'DEF'OR SOLI D!i MASON 3~ R LA\JD MEASURiiMEN'!'S MALE 14 R SinL MECI'IANICS i'IARLOW 22 R W.ATER RIESOURCiiS .JORQUE 11 q WATER RESOURCES J.ORQUE 23 I. So it \'E CHAN I CS HARLOW 21 R 'I'RANSMISSN NETWORKS f.lALANTOWlCZ H R SfRVO SYS & CONTROL fi!USS 22 I ·t I. S!:RVO svs & CONTROL li!Uss 8 l. S!!RVO svs & CONTROL J;~Uss 7 I. SERVO SYS & CONTROL RU~S ll R M!;C!-1 ENGR~JG SEMINAR I<ETCHUM 12 R DVI\JAM&CONTR Pld¥S svs ~ITTAL 12 R viscous FLUYD DYNMCS SHANEBROOK ' q !~tRO COM~UfE~ SCI G WILLIAMS 2? ~ P~R+RAN PRO~RAMMING INGVARSSON 41 R MACH LANG PROGRAMMNG G ~ ILL!AMS 23 ·R !NPORMATION S'I'S DSGN MC LANE u R AS\'Ft4BL.Y ~At\JG PJ:tOGRM R n•''IEL 30 ! ~ q At,.7flMATA THEOii!V II MC KEOWN 11 FAI.L TERM RltT PC 'I' 8 0 OS 13 921 21 9'5~ ., 6 8 7 9 SiX 21 9U 21 :100. 2 5 1 5 11 841 i9 e6n J 5 ~ -- 1:0 0 01i' 'D 0~ 0 0\ 0 0\ 9 .75. 6 85~ 27 100~ 0 0% II 4 1 5 8 a 111 1.2 18' 78% u 6 9 56X 7 4 0 0~ 10 :tO' ' •I 10 9011: 3 ... 7 Union College Course Evaluation 1973 - c D 1 II 4 • 3 1 8 1 4 , 6 1 0 a 1 a 11 0 8 iJ 2 2 3 a 4 2 0 0 74 F 0 1 0 2 0 1 0 0 D 0 0 0 1 i COURtE fNSTR ~OAK NO R&S,.ONSe ~.13 3·23 3.38 4,t9 4.61 3,33 2,i6 2o22 2,33 3.09 2.95 3,00 3,t7 4,61·· J,OO 3,9~ 4,4S 3~09 3,1~ 3,31 !,57 NO RISPDNS.E NO RISII'ON.SE NO RISPONSE _ NO RISIIIDNSE 3,77 3 .• 88 3.88 ,,~6 s.o~ 3.83 3 .•• 8 11,14 3.14 NO RISIIIONSE ·~16 .. ~,0 3,72 3,.~ 3o22 3,66 CLASS NO'S IBYASSO.TED ~.40 2,50 3,30 NO RESPONSE - NO CARDS WERE RECEIVED FRC»vl THE INSTRUCTOR, OR THEY ARRIVED TOO LATE INSUFFICIENT RESPONSE - LESS Tlii\N 50% OF THE STUDENTS ENROLLED RESPOWED CLASS NOT EVALUATED - CARDS WERE LOST~ DATA WAS FOUI'l> TO BE INVALID OR OTHER LINEBACKER ERRCR NOTES The Union College Course Evaluation is a survey of student attitudes towards the courses offered in the Fall Term. Each instructor of any;;..class with over four students was asked to distribute questionnaires and mark-sense answer cards to his students. These cards were then keypunched and tabulated by the college's Honeywell G-415 computer. A summary of this tabulation follows. A more complete version is available at the reference desk of Schaffer Library. It should be emphasized that the primary intention of Linebacker is to serve as a supplementary guide to the students. faculty, and administration in their own evaluation of the courses being taught at Union College. Linebacker does not pretend to be a flawless measure of the courses and faculty. One must be especially wary af courses with low enrollments where one student's answer could drastically change the rating. as will always happen with small samples. We would like to thank everyone w hC> helped in this effort, including Mrs. Lorraine Marra; Mr. Calvin G. Schmidt, Registrar; Mr. Richard M. Daniel., Systems Analyst; Mrs. Nancy Renzi, Programmer~ Mr. Wil1iam. F. Williams; Prof. Theodore Schwarz; and William Talis. James L. Alberg '74 Editor Lester 1\1. Feintuck :75 Robin L. Waring '75 Sam Cte-venson, Publisher January, 1974 • • A J -, put C())l cdi1 Er:t! I Wr vol taU We Per Ba! '(. int vol Syr for rar thr' Bo1 I on filn bee fac gra do( Fir Co I th< Co in hUi He car go1 Un I Co ser wh me COl the Fw ma wil WI be De Sn ha' a pi I adr anc me the Gr Bir M~ Mr Otl Mt: Mi

CONCQRDIENSIS. Thursday. January 31, 1974 Page9 ·New Book The Union College Press has published its third book, a C()lle.ction of literary interviews edited by Associate Pmfessor of Er:tglish Frank Ga<lo. First P~rson: Conversations on Writers an·d Writing, a 207-page volume, contains transcripts of talks with novelists Glenway Wescott, John Oos Passos, Robert PeRri Warren, John Updike, John Barth, and Robert· Coover. Or. Gado·s extensive introdiuction cornpletes the· volutne. The hook,. distributed by Syracuse U niv.ersity Press, ·sells for $9.50· clothbound, $3.95 in paperback. It may be pt!rchased through the Union College B-ookstore. Dr. Gado, who is also at work on a book ~ about Swedish filmma·ker lngmat Bergman, has been a member of the Uni0n faculty since 1963. He is a graduate of Dartmouth with a doctorate in English from Duke. First Person is his first bo.ok. ·SEARCH Continued from Page 1 Committee menwc::1. Dean Lichterman indicated that the members of the Committee were mest interested in finding out what \type of human being the candidate is.\ He said that many of the candidates were \.people with good ideas, but not quite right for Union.\ Mr. Sostek said that the Committee was expressi'rig its serious interest in the candidates whom they brought to campus to meet openly with the _Co-llege community. It now appears that the Board of Trustees and the Faculty Comm~ttee are left to make the final decision as_to who will replace President Martin. When the Trustees' decision will be made remains unknown. Both Dean Lichterman and Bruce Sostek claim that the Trustees have appeared as pleased with the applicants as the Committee. Mr. Sostek also expressed his admiration of the very hard work and dedication of the Committee members. The other members of the Committee include Prof. Griesinger, (Chairman). Profs. Birecka, Board, Klemm, William Martin, Potts, and Shanebrook, Mr. Pearson and Mr. Timberlake. Other student members are Messrs. Garbo and McCabe and Miss Young. B:LlTHER . . '.. . ' ... ~,. . . . - Attention all past, present, or aspiring Concordiensis photographers, There will be an impor.tant organizational meeting, Monday, Feb. 4, at 8 p.m. in the Coneordiensis Office on the third floor Carnegie~ If unable to attend, 'please contact Bill Erichsen at 324 West or 346-9211. ·* * * * NOTICE TO ALL FRESHMEN FROM THE lJ'lRECTOR OF STUDENT AID: There have been some . modifications in tl1e requirements for part;icipation in the new entitlement program of the Office of Education referred to as Basic Economic Opportunity Grant Program (:BEOG). The deadline for filing has been extended to April L 1974, and if a student qualifies for this award, (ranging from a minimum of $5() to .a maximum of $452) payments can be retroactive and cover the full year. The. original stipulation statttd tha.t if you didn't apply for the first term of school you would lose that portion of your yearly entitlement. If your family inc@me is in the area of $11,000 or less, you may qua:lify. Applications. are ava,ilable in the Student Aid Office. There is no charge for filing. It's worth a go! * * * * Anyone interested m working on the gubernatorial campaign of Congressman Ogden Reid (Dem. Westchester County) should contact Ellyn Roth at 370-6403. * * * * There will be a meeting of the Women's Caucus Monday night at 9 p.m. in Strauss Lounge. Anyone interested is .urged to attend. Plans f<;)( Women's Week and fot additional projects will be ·discussed. * * * * ' Seniors: Time to order gra·duation -announcements. See Mrs. Marra, Student Activities Office. * * * * There will be a meeting of the Photo Society at 4:30 p.m. in Strauss Lounge on Monday, Feb. 4th. All those interested, as well as old members are urged to attend. * * * * On February 8, 9, and 10 a gathering of students involved in Jewish organizations from all colleges in New York State will gather to a convention for the Diaspora of Israel. This convention will be held in Rochester, N.Y. All intereste.;l students are urged to call Nina Halpern at 346-9649. * * * * GREENHOUSE IN THE DOGHOUSE... Due to the energy crisis and resulting shortages, the people that bring you Jackson's Gardens and assorted ec6logical delights are in trouble. Union's supplies of pots, containers, etc, are extremely low, and all students are encouraged to bring any available containers to Dick Luniewski at the greenhouse for r:ecycling. * * * * The Berliner Research Center desires to have someone attend conventions, technical and scientific meetings in Schenectady from time to time to secure copies of programs, literature. and published papers. Students will be paid fees ranging from $15;00 to $50.00 for each assignment.. Anyone interested is urged to write: Berliner Research Center, Berliner Bldg., Danbury, Conn., 06810. * * * * The Red Cross Bloodmobile will be at Union College on. February 6th and 7th, from II a.m. to 5 p.m. The blood supply for Schenectady presently is critically low, so do your share! * * * * Whoever borrowed my math 12 notes last spring and promised to return them, please do! Call Cindy Wolfson, 3 70-6406. 1\DY(ime ••• Graceful modern jewelry handcrafted in solid f?old and silver hy M. Grauhart & Sons • - ' 0 0 - ~ -- - - - ~ • • j 0 L ' • ' . ' ' ' ' . ' . MAURICE GRAUBART AND SONS 166 JAY ST., SCHENECTADY Here's what's happening every night of the week at the Varsity Inn: MONDAY AND TUESDAY-Free Nights No admission. Kingsize drinks regularly priced. WEDNESDAY -Daily Double Two shots for a dollar. Only 50¢ admission. THURSDAY-Beer Blast Admission guys $2.00, girls $1.00. Free beer all night. FRIDAY AND SATURDAY-Anything Goes Nights Admission $1.00. Continuous music from 9 p.m. to 3 a.m. SUNDAY-Appreciation Night Only 50¢ admission. Wrap up the weekend at the V.I. \1!be lnlr5itp Jfnn - Dave's' Mens Shop 453 State St. (downtown Schenectady) 255 New Karner Rd. Colonie ~evrs Dave's Mens Shop 453 State St. (dawmowa Schenectady)

Page 10. CONCORDIENSIS, Thursday, January 31, 1974 Grapplers begin 7 4 Season fhe Union College W restlmg Team opened its long delayed season January 23 at Hanover, :\iew Hampshire, under the direction of new head coach, Gale Knull. The Dutchmen have had four meets so far and have won two of them. The two losses were inflicted by New England defending champion, Springfield, a n d power ho use Cent ra I Connecticut. Springfield almost shut-out Union 53-2, with Doug Wingerath scoring the only two points. The Union grapplers· overpowered Dartmouth JI-IJ and nipped Kings Point 22-IX. Zullo Captain I he I I 8 lb. weight class has been rotating among Ray Walker, Frank Giamartino and Howie Mastroianni, with the latter UNION 31 118 W. Ray WBF 126 M. Zullo WBF 134 L Dagostino 9 142 B. Freeman WBF !50 S. Media 7 158 T. EveFett ll 167 D. LoCascio 3 177 M. Paquette 3 190 G. Lyons 4 Hwt SPRINGFIELD 53 I J 8 C. Stevens 10 126 M. Anderson WBF 134 S. Mowetis WBF 142 B. Gifford WBF 150 K. Piette WBF 158 P. LeBlanc 0 167 R. Munroe WBF 177 B. Tuarde WBF 190 S. Bock WBF Hwt B. Fiore WBF C. CONNECTICUT 19 I I 8 E. Sally 13 126 A. Specian 4 134 J. Hamilton 5 142 B. Fresher 5:48 150 J. Day 4 158 E. Novak 4 167 M. Smith 5 177 B. Christensen 12 190 J. Lensi 3 Hwt D. Rousseau 10 UNION22 118 H. Mastroianni 9 126 M. Zullo 8 134 L Dagostino WBF 142 B. Freeman 0 150 S. Media . WBF 158 T. Everett 17 167 D. LoCascio 5 177 M. Paquette 3 190 G. Lyons 2 Hwt D. DeCesare 4:02 emerging as .the regular of the- season with apresent record of I- I. Senim Ma~k Zullo. <;aptain for an unrnecedented fh,ree seasons. \.\ill start regularly in the 126 lo. division. The Massapequa native has a 40-6 record in individual mee-t com petit:ion here at Union. He is J-0 cunently. coming with piAs. Sophomores Scott Media and Tom Everett, hoth re-turning lettennen are v. re-st ling in the 150 and 158 lb. v.eight classes respectively. Both hav•e started the s.eason impressively with a combined record of 6-0. In the 168 lb. weight class, Don LoCascio a f rosh, hasn't yet won a tnatch, but is improving steadily. Mike Paquette also ·a frosh, is in a similar situation. He lost a close 4-J bout against Kings Point. Larry Dagostino, a J tmior Schenectadian who was sidelined last season due to an injury, is grappling in fhe I 34 lb. weight class. He has won two out of three matches, one victory being a pin. Junior Br.uce FreernaA who turned an imp1:essive perfmmance last sea son, is finding out that v.restling one dass weight a hove- his normal isn't too easy. As a 142 pounder he currently holds a record M 2-2, both of his victories Greg Lyon~. the only returning letterman in the upper weight classes. is starting as a 190 pounder. He has a record of l-3. The- heavy-weight class vaccum, left by Champ Howard Benedict has been filled by Don DeCesare and Frosh Randy Balcom, the latter dropping his last match lO- X. DARTMOUTH 13 Aponte 5:00 D. Hanaway 0 C. ()ueenin 4:41 K. Keves 4 M. H0ttowe I R. Clarck 17 J. Conterato 11 D. flarrnon 3 K. Witte WBF UNION2 F. Giamartino 3 R. Walker 5:35 D. Blumestack 3:41 B. Freeman 4:46 B. McClintock :52 D. Wingerath 0 S. Shutzer 3:46 G. Ly{)ns 1:54 D. DeCesare :57 UNJ()N tS H. Mastroianni 2 M. Zullo 13 L. Da,gostino 0 B. Freeman WBF S. Media 7 T. Everett 10 D. LoCascio 3 M. Paquette 3 CregLyons 0 R. Balcom 8 KINGS 'POINT 18 Miller 3 Zindler 6 McAteer 6:15 Schrock 8 Samuels 6:16 Aiello 4 Tanton 9 Wolken 4 Kennelly 8 Vermish WBF The Union Grapplers will appear three times in Alumni Gym. They will host RPI, on Saturday Hobart, and next Wednesday, Albany State and Rochester. GARNET SWIMMERS Continued from page 11 Sophomore . co-captain Tom Richardson was barely touched HUt by K i.ngs Point's A ten in the 200 backstroke and similarly by Aten again in the 200 individual medley. Junior co-captain Tom Burbank took second to Kings Point's Rauf in the 200 breast- stroke to round out Union's top l~nishers. However, the mermen turned the tables on Wednesday after- noon by beating Trinity College in a close, exciting meet. Last year at Trinity, the Garnet swimmers had to swallow a difficult one-point loss, but on Wednesday revenge was in the air, with Union coming out on top. The team of Richardson, Burbank, Weisburgh, and freshman sprinter Rich Norman swept through the 4x 100 medley relay to outdistance Trinity in a crisp 4:11.2. Junior Dave Bernat, recently transformed from, a oackstroker into a sprint freestyler, copped a close victory in· the 50 freestyle, with Norman Get 2 Bucks for Blo·wing a Wh is tie That's what you can get by refereeing some basketball and volleyball games. at any time of vour choice during the week. Go an hour early to your own game <~nd ref or better yet take a few hours off some evening, ref 4 games and take home 8 bills. Not had for blowing a whistle. For those interested, it's as easy as dropping up to the gym and putting your initials next to any spot on the schedule in Coach Lawrence's office. finishing third. Richardson and _..;: 9 ~·=i~;;:;iiiiiiiriPiiP•I Weisburgh took Trinity's ~,.. \ .,.. ............ ,.. .... .... .... • · Williams by surprise with a clean ~ JNTRAMURAL and ~ ~weep, in the 200 individual .. INTER .. FRATERNITY • medley, which pushed the Garnet ,.. SPORTS BULLETIN morale to new heights. In the ~ reyuired diving, Eva Schmeck- ~ Coach Lawrence wants to~ cnbecher remained unbeaten by make it known to those who, nudging out Trinity's two female !~\previously hadn't realized that~ ~ntries. Weisburgh came back, ,. in order to participate in the despite a painful shoulder, to take ~leagues, one must be a fuily' enrolled underclassman. No the 200 butterfly. In that race, ~graduate students are~ gutsy workhorse Irv Kaufman ~~\permitted to participate. came from out of nowhere to • surprise Trinity's Simons, leading lJ nion to a one-two sweep. Mark Foster came back in the optional diving to edge Trinity's Tyson and· Haydn, making the divers' overall record 4-0 (in first-place show- ings). Other notable performances included strong, two-three finishes in the 1.000 freestyle hy Burbank and Kaufman, the 100 free with Norman and Bernat. and the 200 breaststroke with IlL .......................................... ..... BUY THEM NOW! FOR THE COLD- WEATHER AHEAD GLOVES ... 1000's of Pairs Famous Johnstown- Gloversville Makers LEATHER GLOVES PIGSKIN - DEERSKIN FUR & WOOL LINED photo credit Blair Reischer Scanlon turns his back to the hall. Burbank and freshman Jeff Marston. Freshman hackstroker/freestyler Rob Magaziner rounded out Union's 'ictorious afternoon, with a close finish to Trinity's Cecil in a fast ·------------------------, I I ~00 hackstroke field.· DRIViNG GLOVES w/Pigskin Palm Ladies Dress Gloves FIND THEM ALL HERE For the Whole Family! BROADWAY GLOVE SHOP FERRO'S PHARMACY f The Bootery f I I I LINED AND WATERPROOF - I til No. B'way 377-2912 Schenectady, N.Y. :i1!'.il!'.i&1 photo by Cliff Langweiber Food Service Continued from_pa\e 3 found in a college food service: Salad 'Bar Three entree selections Serve vourself ice cream There ·are also no hassles of grocery stores, cooking, washing dishes, and cleaning up your own mess. We have also done s()mething about the long lines here at West, so that that problem has lessened. Figure out how much money you aFe spending on food, put a price tag on your time, which would he more valuable channeled in a different direction. Think about it. What are you eating today, tomorrow, the end of the semester when you are out of money and need more time to study than to cook? If you would like further information on the meal plans or the economic food situation our office is open from 8:00 a.m. to X:OO p.m. Feel free to stop in. Harold Richardson Food Service Director Gary Hipp Food Service Manager . MCAT-DAT•GR ; . LSA.T. AtGS,B NAT'L. BDS .. . * PB:_.eparation tor .tests required for admission to graduate and profe$-1' sional Sc:hoois . • Six and twelve 5e$iOn courses * Small groups * Voluminous·material forflome study prepared by experts in each field • Lesson schedule can t;le tailored to meet individual h!Mlds. · • Opportur\~itv for review of past lessons via tape at the ce.nter Summer Sessions Special Compact Courses Weekends -lntetsessions_ STANLEY H. KAPLAN EDUCATIONAL CI!N;TI!ft~; 'STUDENT DISCOUNT' 575 Nott St. 377-0510 346a9309 I WINTER AND HIKING BOOTS I. I -Complete Line of Dance Ace.- I I llndother Fine Foot Appart!l 1 I I . Levfs Dave's' Mens Shop . 453. State St. · (downtown Sch~nectady) 1· 11175 Etst 16th SIIMI llroolclv!l. N. Y ~ • . • ; . (212) 236-5300 d ' {516) 538-4555 . I 147 JAY ST. ' I L l . . Te1.374-7777 Hr. 9-5:30, Th. 9-9 1 -~~~~~------------------ . SINCE 1938. · ' DA vs: EVENING!t, WEEKENDS BostOn • Phila.' ~injjton·'·O.trolt • LosAngilos • Mlaml . · ·n.. Tut~&•f101wirllr6 .. NatiOfiiiJide R•p.t.oliolt ) (\ ci !I r tl ft s (!I a \' sc ( [\ tl k a h Il [\ 0 k 0 h

CONCORDIENSJS, Thursdav, Januar!' 3/, 1974 - - Grapplers begin 74 Season I he l I FJion College W rest11ng I cam opened its long delayed season .l.anuary 23 at Hanover, '\t'\1. Hampshire, under the direction of new head coach, Clale !\.null. rnc Dutchmen ha\ e h<Id four mcL·ts ~o l~tr ar.u.l h;ne ~on 1\\o of them. The t\\o losscs\\.ere inflicted hy :\Jew England defending champion. Springfield, <Ind powerhouse Central Conneetic ut. Springfield almost ~hut-out Union 53-2, with Doug Wingerath scoring the only two points. The lJnioFJ grapplers merpowcrcd Dartmol!lth Jl-13 and nipped Kings Point 22-IX. Zullo Captain I he I I~ lh. weight class has heen rotating among Ray Walker. Frank Giamartino and Howie Mastroianni, with the latter UNION 31 118 W. Ray WBF 126 M. Zullo WBF 134 L Dagostino 9 142 B. Freeman WBF 150 S. Media 7 158 T. Everett I I 167 D. LoCascio 3 177 M. Paquette 3 190 G. Lyons 4 Hwt SPRINGFIELD 53 118 C. Stevens 10 126 M. Anderson WBF 134 S. Mowetis WBF 142 B. Gifford WBF 150 K. Piette WBF 158 P. LeBlanc 0 167 R. Munroe WBF 177 B. Tuarde WBF 190 S. Bock WBF Hwt B. Fiore WBF C. CONNECTICUT 19 118 E. Sally 13 126 A. Specian 4 134 J. Hamilton 5 142 B. Fresher 5:4& 150 J. Day 4 158 E. Novak 4 167 M. Smith 5 177 B. Christensen 12 190 J. Lensi 3 Hwt D. Rousseau I@ UNION 22 118 H. Mastroianni 9 126 M _Zullo 8 134 L Dagostino WBF 142 B. Freeman 0 150 S. Media WBF 158 T. Everett 17 167 D. LoCascio 5 177 M. Paquette 3 190 G. Lyons 2 Hwt D. DeCesare 4:02 emerging as the regular of the season with a present record of I- I. Senior Mark Zu-llo. captain for <In unprecedented three seasons. \lill start regularly in the 126 lh. dn 1~ion. I he Massapeq~Ia nati\e l1a;. a 40-n record in Individual llleet com petition here at ll n-ion. lk 1s 3-0 currently. wmir~g with pins. Sophomores Scott Media and Tom F\,crett. hoth returning lettermen are 11rcstling in the 150 and 15X lb. 11eight classes respcctiwly. Both ha \ e 'tart ed the ~ca~on llllpre,,i\t•1y \lith a combined JL'C<l,rU of fl-0. In the I6H lh. VH·ight class. Don I oCt,l'io a frosh. hasn't yet worl '' match. hut i;. improving 'lead ily. Mike Pay uette also a frosh. is in a -.;irnilar situation. He lost a dose 4-3 hou't against King~ Point. I arry Dagostililo, a Junior Schcnectadian who was sidelined last season due to an injury. is grappling in the 134 lh. weight class. He ha~ won two out of three matehcs. one victory heing a rin. Junior Hruce Freeman who t urncd an impressive performance last season. is finding out that \\ re~tling one class weight a hove ilis normal isn't too easy. As a 142 pounder he currently holds a record of 2-2. hoth of his victories ( ireg l.yons, the only returning letterman in the upper \\eight rlasses. is starting as a 190 pou ndL·r. He ha~ a record of 1-J. I he heavy-weight class vaccum. left by Champ Howard Benedict has been filled by Don DeCesare <md Frosh Randy Balcom. the latter droppiAg his last match 10- K DARTMOUTH 13 Aponte 5:00 D. Harrawav 0 C. Queenin 4:41 K. Keyes 4 M. Hott-owe I R. Clarck 17 J. Conterato l I D. Harmon 3 K. Witte WBF UNION2 F. Giamartino 3 R. Walker 5:35 D. Blumestack 3:41 B. Freeman 4:46 B. McClintock :52 D. Wingerath 0 S. Shutzer 3:46 G. Lyons 1:54 D. DeCesare :57 UNION 15 H. Mastroianni 2 M. Zullo 13 L Dagostino 0 B. Freeman WBF S. Media 7 T. Everett 10 D. LoCascio 3 M. Paquette 3 Creg Lyons 0 R.Balcom 8 KINGS POINT 18 Miller 3 Zindler 6 McAteer 6:15 Schrock 8 Samuels 6:16 Aiello 4 Tanton 9 Wolken 4 Kennelly 8 Vermish WBF I he Union Grapplers will appear three times in Alumni Ciym. They will host R PI, on Saturday Hohart. and next Wednesday, Albany State and Rochester. GARNET SWIMMERS Continued from pillge 11 Sophomore . co-captain Tom Richardson was harely touched out by Kings Point's Aten in the 200 backstroke and similarly hy !\ten again in the 200 individual medley. Junior co-captain Tom Burhank took second to Kings Point's Rauf in the 200 breast- stroke to round out Union's top finishers. However. the mermen turned the tahles on Wednesday after- noon by beating Trinity College in a close. exciting meet. Last year at Trinity. the Garnet swimmers had to swallow a difficult one-point loss. but on Wednesday revenge was in the air, with Union coming out on top. The team of Richardson, Hurhank. Weishurgh. and freshman sprinter Rich Norman swept through the 4x 100 medley relav to outdistance Trinity in a crisp 4:11.2. Junior Dave Rernat. recently transformed from a backstroker into a sprint freestyler, copped a close victory in the 50 freestyle, with Norman Get 2 Bucks for Blowing a Whistle That's what you can get hy refereeing some basketball and \ olleyhall games at any time of your choice during the week. Go an hour early to your own game and ref or better yet take a few hours off some evening, ref 4 games and take home R bills. Not had for blowing a whistle. For those interested, it's as easy as dropping up to the gym and putting your initials next to any ~pot on the schedule in C'oach I awrence's office. finishing third. Richardson -and ~v;;w-.;;-.~roP'iiiii:ii-.;;;iii;;;iiii Weishurgh took Trinity's ...,.. T .......... \ ... '\' .... y ...... \\\~ Williams by surprise with a clean : INTRAMURAL and • ~weep. in the 200 individual • INTER-FRATERNITY • medley. which pushed the Garnet ..- SPORTS BULLETIN morale to new heights. In the ~ rc4uired diving. Eva Schmeck- enhecher remained unheaten hy nudging out Trinity's two female entries. W eisburgh came hack. despite a painful shoulder, to take the 200 butterDy. In that race. gutsy workhorse lrv Kaufman came from out of nowhere to 'urprise 1 rinity's Simons. leading l inion to a one-two sweep. Mark f--oster came hack in the optional Coach Lawrence wants to• \make it known to those who, previously hadn't reali7ed that~ . ,_in order to participate in the ~leagues, one must be a fully • enrolled underclassman. No • Jiving to edge Trinity's Tyson and· llavdn, making the divers' overall rec~1rd 4-0 (in first-place show- ings). Other notable performances included strong. two-three finishes in the 1.000 freestyle hy Hurhank and Kaufman, the 100 lree with Norman and Bernat. ;1 nd the 200 breaststroke with Burhank and freshman Jeff Marston. Freshman ~graduate students are • ~permitted to participate. _.._ ..................................... _.._ ..... · BUY THEM NOW! FOR THE COLD WEATHER AHEAD GLOVES ... 1OOO's of Pairs Famous Johnstown- Gloversville Makers LEATHER GLOVES PIGSKIN - DEERSKIN FUR & WOOL LINED photo credit Blair R eischer Scanlon turns his hack to the hall. hackstroker freestyler Rob \1agalincr rounded out Union's 1 ictorious afternoon. with a close finish to Trinity's Cecil in a fast ::'00 hackst rnke field. DRIVING GLOVES w /Pigskin Palm Ladies Dress Gloves FIND THEM ALL HERE For the Whole Family! FERRO'S PHARMACY 'STUDENT DISCOUNT' 575 Nott St. 377-051() 346-9309 r------------------------, I I I The Bootery f I I I I LINED AND WATERPROOF I I WINTER AND HIKING BOOTS 1 BROADWAY GLOVE SHOP Ill No. B'way 377-2912 Schenectady, N.Y. -~evrs I -Complete Line of Dance Ace.- I I I and other Fine Foot Apparel 1 I Dave's\ Mens Shop 453 State St. I 147 JAY ST. J 1~-...:C~do;;;..;wn.;.;;,;,toMwn_s_c_he_nec_ta_d...,Y).._.. L l Tel. 374-7777 Hr. 9-5:30, Th. 9-9 1 ~~--~-~------------~--~-- photo by Cliff Langweiber Food Service Continued from_page 3 found in a college food service: Salad Bar Three entree selections Serve vourself ice cream There ·are also no hassles of grocery stores. cooking, washing dishes. and cleaning up your own mess. We have a I so done something about the long lines here at West so that that problem has lessened. Figure out how much money you are spending on food, put a price tag on your time, which would he more valuable <.:hanneled in a different direction. I\hink ahout it. What are you eating today. tomorrow. the end of the semester when you are out of money and need more time to studv than to cook? J( vou would like further information on the meal plans or the economic food situation our office is open from 8:00 a.m. to X:OO p.m. Feel free to stop in. Harold Richardson Food Service Director Gary Hipp Food Service Manager MCAT-DAT·GRE - .. ..... '·. -LSAT- ATG.SB NAT'L. BDS. \ P'=eparation tor tests required for admission to graduate and profeSJ sional schools * Six and twelve session courses * Small groups * Voluminous material fo; -home study prepared by experts in each field * Lesson schedule can be tailored to meet individual n_!*!ds. * Opportu~ity for review of past lessons via tape at the center Summer Sessions Special Compact Courses Weekends - I ntersessions STANLEY H. KAPLAN ~!EDUCATIONAL CI!Nl\ERLTD 1675 Em 16th Stroot Broolclyn, N. V ~. ! (212)236-5300 ·i=f~ . (516) 538-4555 DAYS: EVENING!f, WEEKENDS SINCE 19311. ' Boston • Pilif.a. • Washington • Detroit • Los Angates • Millmj The TrdoriJI& School~<~ilh lh• Nalionwidt Reputaliolt . ,,

, (\ CONCORDIENSIS, Thursday, JanuarJ.•3/, 1974 Track - Field House Debut by ALISON SLOAT . Saturday marked the christening of the new tartan track in Union's .Memorial Fieldhouse. Before a .large, cheering crowd of fans, teams from Hartwick, Williams, Springfield, RPI, and Oswego, as well as the thirtclads of Union battled for points in this eatly encounter. Picking up where he left off last year, Junior muscleman Bill Mowery heaved the 16 lb. shot 47'8'' for the win. Teammate AI (iilewiC?. copped fourth place with a 42'1 0\ put. Sophomore Bob BaFibeau's absence was felt as Dave Ricks was Union's only scorer in the· pole V!lult. Clearing 13', Ricks finished .-second behind Springfield freshman Chumas. losing on misses at a lower height. Union picked up five points in the long jump, with third and fourth place distances by Roger McDonald and John DeStefano. An already obvious battle hetween the Dutchmen and Springlield thickened as the latter collected seven points in the long jump to tie the score at 17. Later in the triple jump John De was the lone point getter for the Garnet with a 41'3\ hop, skip, and jump for fifth where as Springfield picked up nine points. Two freshmen debuted Saturday and showed great promise for Union in the high jump. Clavin Anderson and Dave l'luiner soared over respective heights of 6'5\ and 6'3\ as Ephman Dave Parker cleared 6' lor a Williams third. The running events got under way with the two mile relay. After solid legs were turned in by Crawford Cutts and Ron Warner, Mark Mindel broke loose to close the gap between himself and the leading Springfield man. Union's anchor. Tim McCabe ran on the heels of Conte, Springfields last man. throughom their RSO. When McCabe made his move to overtake Conte on the gun lap his kick was not enough to stay his opponent, who had also saved himself for the final lap. Amidst d1smay, Conte crossed the hnish line capping a 7:57.1!. winning relay time followed by Union's 7:51!..0. \\as Witnessed in Union's Memorial Fieldhouse. Union \\omen in intercollegiate competition. Although Union's - This upset was repeated when tlll:ager six woman team was. ('onte and McCabe met in the totally outclassed by Springfields 60.0 yd. run. McC'a'be, noticeably depth ridden squad of seventeen, favoring one Coot, was not able to the Garnettes managed a second match Conte and was again in the shot put (Louise Dunn) and beaten in the end as Springfield's a third in the 1!.1!.0 yd. run superb middle distanceman broke (Rosemary Rice). A humble the tape in I: 14.2. beginning, but a beginning none Having ap.parently a'lready the less. given their aH to the two mile I his Saturday, February 2, the relay, Cutts and Minner came Dutchmen will once again play hack to face the outrageous host to several schools meeting Charlie Duggan of Springfield in for competition. .I ourneying to t,he 1000. Duggan copped the win Schenectady for the days evel)ts in 2:16.5 but not without real \\ill he RPI. SUNY Binghamton. challenge from Mi11del and Cutts and Hamilton. Jf you haven't seen who were close behind. the new track this is a golden throughout the race, something opportunity to see the place in Duggan probably hadn't full swing. Field events start at expected. I :00 p.m. . Surprising no one, Oswego's Fred Swarez cleaned up in both )~H+ll+H+.ll+N~i:o+M+JII+Ht> the one and two mile runs with rimes of 4:16.7. and 9:23.9, THIS WEEK . respectively, leaving his nearest · IN HOME SPORTS ~:.·ompetitors yards behind. ~ S' t 2 d· T k RPI and l l • •, 1· • t · th , . a . n . rae vs . . ~•.on s. o.n Y pom ~ m e Hamilton 1:00 pm; Swimming ~1stances came from s.ophomore .vs. Hobart .' :00. p.m. : Wrestling· Steve Jo!les who ran h~rd for a .vs. Hobart 2:00pm. 4:2?.1 mile, good fo~ th1rd. . Wed. 6th: Wrestling vs. Sophomo.re s.pnnter Mtlt Albanv and Rochester 4:00 H.erring, having greatly improved pm: ·Frosh Basketball vs. Ius start from t.he blocks, zoo~ed Hartwick 6:00 . pm: Vars. down the straightaway, crossmg Basketball vs. Hartwick 8:00 the line in 5.5 seconds for the win. pm. Another promismg . freshman. Alden Sherman, was clocked in 6.0 for fifth place. As the meet came to an end, a disappointing and sloppy mile relay wrapped up the days events. Williams took an early and unchallenged lead while back in the pack elbows flew and runners were nudged and pushed, making for a ragged race. Conte and McCabe met once again on the ·anchor leg but without drama seen earlier. Springfield claimed second place with 3:32. Well back in third· Union was clocked in 3:37.7. When points were tallied, Springfield emerged victorious, 63 points to Unions· 57 and Williams' 41. In addition to the inauguratio.n of the new facility, another first Women's Sports Continued from Page 12 a team. !he gymnastic facet of the intramural program is far- reaching and novel. The. equipment presently available for use is as follows: the horse, ~wedish box, trampoline, parallel nars afld the low bar of the unevens. Floor exercises (which include both stunts and dance and \\ hich ultimately will work into an individual routine) will be an integral part of the program. /\gain. emphasis will be placed (;n instruction, and no previous training is required. Aside from the formal intramural programs, numerous athletic facilities are available to \\Omen individually. The Fieldhouse now houses a full- sized tennis court which may be used at any. time except the 3:30- 5:30 slot during which the varsity teams practice. The court must be reserved for the evening hours and this may be done on friday afternoon at 3:30 in the gym office. The same proceedure holds for reserving the paddle hall court in the gym. Women are welcome in both the gym and Fieldhouse to participate, to inquire, or to \\ atch. When asked about the possibility of intercollegiate \\Omen's athletics at Union in the future, Dr. Hinkley stressed that team organization depends upon the motivation and the willing- ness of girls to work together and deyote time to practice - if the interest is there, the demand will he met. .. YOUR UNIONieD. CARD IS WORTH 10% MORE AT GET THE COMPLETE RECORD'& TA.PE'STORE * * * * * ·APEX MUSIC KORNER * *. * * *' CORNER OF STATE & BROADWAY ACTIVE tevrs DaYe's Men$ Sh'Op 453 State St. (downtown SChenectady) . . ' Page 11 Denio pops in a one-handed ton~ue shot. Garnet swimmers at .500 ll nion College's swimmers Union's nata tors were literally {lpened their 1974 campaign last swamped from the opening relay. '\eekend with a lopsided 77-35 Laboring under nearly unbearable loss to Kings Point, but bounced conditions, (provided with no back Wednesday afternoon to towels, no bathroom facilities for overturn Trinity by the score of one diver and one manager, and 59-54. competing in a poolwhoseshallow Competing against the nation's end registered no more than two- · tenth-ranked small college and-a-half feet in depth), fine swimming power in Kings Point. performances were turned in +,.·•+++H+++.,.++++++H II: nonetheless. Union's first-ever GIRLS INTRAMURAL · woman intercollegiate athlete, SPORTS sophomore transfer Eva Any women who desire to Schmeckenbecher, copped the participate in intramural , first of three wins by taking the sports are encouraged to just required diving event, out- show up for the sports listed distancing teammate Mark Foster below at the de!iignated time. and Kings Poinfs two entries. There is no commitment other Later on Foster came back to win . than the time which you the optional diving, with K.ings spend. How women sports Point again finishing in second fare at Union is contingent and third places. The third Union upon the support its programs win came in the 4 x 100 freestyle receive. Volley ball at the relay, which closed out the meet. Gym, Monday, Thursdays, The relay team, composed of 4:30-5:30. Basketball at the Mitch Weisburgh, Bill West, Fieldhouse, Mondays. Chris Ketcham, and Keith Tbursdays from 7-9 pm and Jacobson came through with a Tuesdays from 9-11 pm fine 3:49.4. In other events, Gymnastics at the Gym, Tuesdays, Wednesdays, and Continued on Page 10 Fridays from 3:30-5:30 pm ~nue·a ~qtti.t·e ~~op II Dollar Days II SAT., MON., & TUES. Suits, Sportcoats, HALf PRICE Leathers & Topcoats · SLACKS Regularly Up To $29.98 NOW $6.00 DRESS SHIRTS Regularly Up To $15.98 NOW $4 .. 00 SWEATERS Regularly up to $29.98 NOW $10.00 PEN MON.-SAT. STATE ST • . UES. & THURS. TILL 9 PM DOWNTOWN S<:HENECT A;DY ' -.. ~ - .. ~;.. .i I .,

.. j'\ jo (I CONCORDJENSTS, Thursday, Januarr 31, 1974 Track - Field House Debut by ALISON SLOAT . Saturday marked the christening of the new tartan track in Union's Memorial Fieldhouse. Hefore a large, cheering crowd of fans, team~ lrom Hart\\ick, William~. Springfield, RPI, and Os\\ego, as \\ eU as the t hinclads of lJ nion hattlecl for points in this early encounter. Picking up where he left off last ~ear, Junior muscleman Bill Mowery heaved the l 6 lb. si:Jot 4TW' for the win. Teammate AI (iilewic/ copped fourth place with a 42' [.()\ put. Sophomore Roh Baribeau\ ahsence was felt as Dave Ricks v. as Union's only scorer in the· pole vault. Clearing LV, Ricks finished p second hehind Springfield freshman C'humas. losi.ng on misses at a lower height. Union picked up five points in the long jump with third and fourth place distances by Roger McDonald and John DeStefano. An already obvious barttle between the D11tchmen and Springfield thickened as the latter collected seven points in the long jumptotiethescoreat 17. Later in the triple jump John De was the lone point getter for the Garnet with a 41'3\ hop, skip, and jump for fifth where as Springfield picked up nine points. I wo freshmen dehuted Saturday and showed great promise for Union in the high jump. Clavin Anderson and Dave Plumer soared over respective heights of 6'5\ and 6'T as l'phman Dave Parker cleared 6' lor a Williams third. I he running events got under \\ay with the two mile relay. After 'olid legs were turned in by < 'rawford Cutts and Ron Warner. Mark Mindel broke loose to close the gap between himself and the leading Springfield man. Union\ anchor, Tim McCabe ran on the heels of Conte, Springfields last man, throughout their XXO. When McCabe made his move to 0\ertake Conte on the gun lap his kick was not enough to stay his opponent. who had also saved himself for the final lap. Amidst ~llsmay, Conte crossed the lm1sh line capping a 7:57.X wi1ming relay time followed by llnioll\, 7:5X.O. I his upset was repeated when CnrHe and McCabe met iJ.J the (l()() yd. run. McCabe. noticeahly lavoring one foot, v.as not able to match Conte and was again heaten JH the eNd as Springfield's 'uperh middle distancema:n broke the tape in I: 14.2. Having apparently aliready gi\en their all to the two mi·le rL'lay, Cutts and Minner came hack to face the 011trageous Charlie Duggan of Springfield in the 1000. Duggan copped the win i.n 2:.16.5 hut not without real d1allenge from Mindel and Cutts \\ho were close behind througho11t tbe race, somethil1g Duggan probably hadn't expected. Surprising no one. Osweg0's 1\ a~ v. 1tnessed 111 l1 n ion's lJ nion \!t:morial Field house. 1\(llllen In l'( Hllpct it i.t>n. i ntercollcgia tc Although lJ nion's llll'agl'l\ six \\oman team was.· total!~ l>Utclas~ed hy Springfield~ depth ridden squad of ~c\entecn. I he ( i a r nl't tc~ ma.nagl·d a ~ccond in the shot put (Louise Dunn) anJ a third in the XXO yd. run ! Ro,emary Rice). !\ hurnhk hegirmi·ng. hut a heginning none 1 he les;,. I his Saturday, February 2. the I )utchmcn will once again p-lay host to several schools meeting I or competition. J owrneying to Schenectady for the days evetlts \\iH he RPL Sll~Y Binghamton. and llami:lton. If you haven't ~een · the new track this is a golden opportunity to see the place in l'uH swing. Field events start at 1:00 p.m. Fred Swarez cleaned u-p in bo.th r:;+++++++t :lluil. the one and two mile runs with times of 4:16.7 and 9:23.9. THIS WEEK respectively, leaving his nearest IN HOME SPORTS competitors yards behind.~ S t 2 d· T k RPI d ll · • 1 · · '- · a . n • rae vs. . an + · moR s on y pmnts m h1e H . 11 1 . 00 . S t'mmJ·. 0 ~ . .. . . f . h ami on . pm •. w n,. ~1stances. came rom sop omore vs. Hobart 1:00 pm: Wrestling· Steve Jones who ran hard for a H h rt 2·00 pm 4 27 I 'I d f h' d 1 vs. 0 a . . : . · m1 e, goo 0 ~ t Ir · . Wed. 6th: Wrestling vs. Sophomore sprmter Milt ~ Alhanv and Rochester 4:00 ~ ll_erring, ?aving greatly improved pm: ·Frosh Basketball vs. l11s start I rom the blocks, 7oomed Hartwick 6:00 pm: Vars. down the straightaway, crossi1~g :Basketball vs. Hartwick R:OO the liRe in 5.5 seconds for the win. :t pm. Another promising . freshman. + :J: 1\lde.n S~erman, was clocked in ::toJo++++++++ff T+oJo++++++i: (1,() for ftfth place. - .-\s the meet came to an end, a disappointing and sloppy mik relay wrapped up the days events. Williams took an early and unchallenged lead while hack in the pack elbows flew anrl runners \\ere nudged and pushed, making lor a ragged race. Conte and McCahe met once again on tl1e anchor leg hut without drama ~ecn earlier. Springfield claimed second place with 3:32. Well hack in third Union was clocked in 3:37.7. When points were tallied. Springfield emerged victorious, 63 points to Unions' 57 and Williams' 41. In addition to the inauguration of the new facility. another first Women's Sports Continued from Page 12 a team. I he gymnastic facet of the iNtramural program is far- n:aching and novel. The. l'l)Uipment presently available for use is as follows: the horse, \~Aoedish box, trampoline, parallel hars and the low bar of the unevens. Floor exercises (which include hoth stunts and dance and \hich ultimately will work into an individual routine) will he an integral part of the program. ..\gain. emphasis will be placed <in instruction, and no previous training is required. :\side from the formal intramural programs, numerous athletic facilities are available to '' o m e n i n d i v i d u a II y . T h e I· ieldhouse now houses a full- 'i7ed tennis court which may he used at any time except the 3:30- 5:30 slot during which the varsity teams practice. The court must he reserved for the evening hours and this may he done on Friday afternoon at 3:30 in the gym office. The same proceedure hrllds lor reserving the paddle hall court in the gym. Women are welcome in both the gym and Fieldhouse to rarticipate, to inquire. or to \a tch. When asked ahout the possibility of intercollegiate \\omen's athletics at Union in the future, Dr. Hinkley stressed that It: am organil'ation depends upon the motivation and the willing- ness of ~Lirls to work together and devote time to practice if the mtcrest is there, the demand will he met. YOUR UNION I.D. CARD IS WORTH 10% MORE AT GET THE COMPLETE RECORD\& TAPE' STORE * * * * * APEX MUSIC KORNER * * * * * CORNER OF STATE & BROADWAY ACTIVE tevfs Dal'e's Mens Sb'Op 453 State St. (downtown Schenectady) Paf(e 11 ohn Denio pops in a one-handed tonKue shot. Garnet swimmers at .50,0 llnion College's swimmers Union's natators were literally opened their 1974 campaign last swamped from the opening relay. \\eekend with a lopsided 77-'35 l.abori11g under nearly unbearable loss to Kings Point. but bounced conditions, (provided with no hack Wednesday afternoon to towels, no bathroom facilities for overturn Trinity by the score of one diver and one manager, and 59-54. competing in a pooh\ l][)sc shallow Competing against the nation's end registered no more than two- tenth-ranked ~mall college and-a-half feet in depth), fine ~wimming power in Kings Point, performances weFe turned in o!o+++oi+++++++++++++++lot• nonetheless. Union's first-ever GIRLS INTRAMURAL \\oman intercollegiate athlete. SPORTS ,ophomore tra11sfer Eva Any women who desire to Schmec kenbecher, copped the participate in intramural 1 rirst of three wins by taking the sports are encouraged to just required diving event, out- show up for the sports listed distancing teammate Mark Foster below at the designated time. and Kings Point\s two entries. There is no commitment other l.ater on Foster camt.: hack to win than the time which you the optional diving, with Kings spend. How women sports Point again finishing in second fare at Union is contingent and third places. The third Union upon the support its programs \\in came in the 4 x 100 freestyle receive. Volley ball at the relay. which closed out the meet. Gym. Monday, Thursdays, lhe relay team. composed of 4:30-5:30. Basketball at the Mitch Weisburgh, Bill West. Fieldhouse, Mondays, Chris Ketcham, and Keith Thursdays from 7-9 pm and .laeobs<ln came through with a Tuesdays from 9-11 pm fine 3:49.4. In other events, Gymnastics at the Gym, Tuesdays, Wednesdays, and Continued on Page 10 Fridays from 3:30-5:30 pm !lnut·n ~quirt ~IJnp B Dollar Days U SAT., MON., & TUES. Suits, Sportcoats, HAlf PRICE Leathers & Tope oats · SLACKS Regularly Up To $29.98 NOW $6.08 DRESS SHIRTS Regularly Up To $1598 NOW $4.00 SWEATERS Regularly up to $29. 9R NOW $10.00 PEN MON.-SAT. STATE ST. UES. & THURS. TILL 9 PM DOWNTOWN SCHEN-ECTADY '

.. . i Page 12 CONCORD!ENS!S, Thursday, January 31, 1974 Hoop off to Quick Start by HANK B'ERNSTElN and BRIAN TUCKER \It's difficult to compare the 'two teams,\ said Coach Scanlon, prior to Union's opening game a,gainst Middlebury. discussing this year's basketball squad as opposed to the fine 16-7 Upstate :\ew York ECAC champs of last year. He noted how young Union \\as with seven sophomores on the 13-man roster. Three J-year starters, Tom Bacher, Mike Doyle, and Geoff Walker, were graduated last June. In the starting line-up was only one senior. Also, Un-ion's \more than ~:hallenging schedule\ pointed to ~ix consecutive road games to commence the season. This, of course. meant inexperience. Yet, Bill Scanlon in his first year as varsity coach. now finds the Gamet with only one loss to Siena. lhis fine 7-1 start, including a second place finish in the Capital District Tournament last month. can be attributed to many factors. As always, carrying over from the WaIters' era, defense is stressed ... drawing the offensive fouls. coming up with .important steals, scrambling for the loose balls, fighting through picks. Every player on the squad is continually hustling-moving with or without the ball and \talking\ with each other. This Union team also is offensively strong, frequently 'A-orkmg lor the good shots and even using the \back door\ on occasion. It should he mentioned, too, that four of the five starters are currently averaging double ligures. Most of all, there is a deep feeling of pride which, like the emphasis on defense, has been carried over from the past. Union hasketball teams do not like to lose. I he Dutchmen got things rolling this season with a strong ~howing at Middleburry ( Vt. ). defeating the always tough home team by an impressive 70-5!i margin. This avenged last year's opening heartbreaker to the Middies. \ext. Coach Scanlon took his rlayers south and unleashed them against Drew University (N.J.) rosting a 66-5!i win and followed the next night with a 59-46 romp over Pace in New York City. After taking a shorter holiday than the rest of us, the Union t:agers came back to prepare for the Capital District Tournament against Siena. Albany State. and arch-rival R.P.I. In thefirst game. the Garnet soundly trounced the R. P.l. 1ooers 79-55. an especially sweet victory. In the championship game. Union took an X2-6X beating from a superior Sie;1a team. the number one ranked small college team in :'\lew York State. Scanlon next took his touring show to Wesleyan <Conn.) and demolished the home stjuad B8-7L lhe Dutchmen finally returned home for their first horne game on the new Memorial Fieldhouse lloor and before a near sell-out crowd, sent visiting Williams back 11 ith a 6J-52 whipping and a long bus ride to Williamstown. Last Friday night W.P.I. of Worcester also had a long ride home, having heen battered !i9-69 before another 'large home crowd in the Fieldh~mse. . Many questions in the minds of hoth C'oach Scanlon and the !Inion followers have been answered as the young Garnet team has proven its strength both up front and in the back-court and its ability to play well together. Playing at the center positiOn is junior Charlie Gugliotta of Huntington Station. \. Y .• a reserve last year. Charlie has been dominating both ends of the court, averaging 17.6 points per game and over ten rebounds. His aggressiveness and his shooting <thility won Charlie a spot on the All-E.C'.A.C team last week as he racked up 21 points and 16 rebounds against Wesleyan. Rounding out the front court are senior Co-captain Chuck Abba of Schenectady and sophome Steve Kelly of Port Washington, N.Y. Chuck, a starting guard on last \ ea.r's team. has made the iransition to forward easily and has paced the team with his qead iness and consistency. Kelly, ~tuhoing his toe on the rim, has displayed great potential with his key rebounding and inside shooting. ••te Roy\ has been averaging over eleven points per game. In the hackcourt, sophomore .John Denio of Melrose, N.Y. has wntinually bewildered opposing teams with his 4uickness and fortv minutes of pestering def~nse. \W.E.O.\ has sparked the team with his key steals. lrequently leading to easy huckets. Quarterbacking the club has been junior Hilly Carmody of Spring Lake. N.J. Returning frorr, a year layoff to rest his fragile knees. Mody has been incredible. making up for his average speed 11ith enthusiasm and amazing court sense. Billy has been ~hooting over 50C(- from the field and 9.V\i from the charity stripe in · tevrs Dave's Mens Shop~ ~State St. (downtown Schenectady) . ~ < ~ : MOTHER FERRO'S : ~ ~ ~ \Featuring Italian-American Cusine\ ~ ~ ~ ~ HIS BARRETt ST. ,. ~ SCHENECTADY 016-9554 ~ ~1ii:;i.,..;:::iii~;=i ... r-¥=,.:iii\T;;=;Y\r:.-= ....:iii,..;=;.,.r;iij.,.;:::iii..,.p:;;,.r;iij,.~.,.;=;r,.iij •. ~ .... ;;; .... ro.- .~.~P'J.I.~ Ace Stationery VA LENTINE'S DAY CARDS & GIFTS 177 JAY ST. 372-2008 Mon.-Sat. 9:30-5:30 averaging close to 12 .points per game. ll11ion can easily go to its bench if necessary. Senior Co~captain Tom Combs from Penfield. N. Y. is probably the best shooter on the squad. \Beanet\ is frequently called Upon to help the frent- court whether it be defensively or breaking open a wne with his sharp shoot1ing ability. First reserve in the backcourt is senior l.1:1ke Dillon of Worcester, Mass., a quality performer with his court kadership and ball handling. Adding strength to the front court are sophomore forwards Ray \Stretch\ Marcinowski. Dave \Bones\ Viniar. ;tnd sophomore c.enter Jon \Tubby\ Raymond. Rounding out the backccmrt are sophomores Willy Henson, Mark \Space~man\ Glazer. and junior Kevin Crawford. Charlie Gugliotta leaps for two ,against Williams. Women's Sports by MEREDITH AUGUST I hus. a team which in the pre- season appeared to be young and inexperienced, now has shown rtself to be mature. High morale. team depth. and ofcourse defense are key factors which could make Coach Scanlon's s4uad one of the hest in Union's recent fiRe tradition. Bulletin I uesday night. the Union Ba-sketball teams swept Hobart the varsity winning 70-51 and the Jrosh taking their game 94-72. ( \harlie Gugliotta and Steve Kelly led the Garnet with 14 and 12 points respectively. Gary Borgese led the frosh with 26 points. Wednesday night, the Varsity \Hestling team stomped on RPI. 37-IJ to up its record to 3-2. I )ctails in next week's edition . Winter tam is now upon us and along with the perpetual cold comes the ter.Jdency to stay indoors and remain sedentary. Because no physica:l' educ<1tion . requirements exist at Union, any participation in athletics. be it ,intercollegiate. intramural. or individual, is strictly on a \ oluntary basis. For women on campus, the problem of fitness and recrea:tion is rather more acute .. Most women seem to regard both the gym and the Fieldhouse as bastions of male sport and consetjuently off limits. To d:ispel this notion we want to make l Inion co-eds aware of the programs being offered this \\inter. l>r. Nancy Hinkley is a new member ·of the physical education staff at Union and she has Ia unched an ambitious, rounded intramural program for women \\ hich is radically different from the feeble attempts of previous years. What must be emphasized is that Dr. Hinkley's position is conditional upon the interest and need of the female community. !\he Women's Caucus fought hard to secure someone in her capacity; it must be shown that girls' athletics has lagged in the past due only to lack of an organ- i1ational head and tatr aHotmen~ and not because of lack of interest. The format of the gi'rls' intramural program this winter i~ roughly as follows: both volley- b a I l a n d b a s k et b a II w ill wmmencc with a two-week instructional pedod in which basic skills will he either taught or reviewed. In the case of volley- hall. special emphasis will then he placed upon the 'power· game and -.kills such as spiking, blocking. ;11id digging will be demonstrated ancl practiced. The basketball lorma.t will be more or less identi.cal to the men~s intramural program. The five-man teams will he organi7ed after two weeks of instruction are completed. Thus the pressure of getting a team together .(which usmrlly implies the coercion of reluctant friends) as a requisHe to participation in the program, no bnger exists. I ournament play wiiJ begin only after each girl has been placed (>lfl Continued on Page 11 LeVI'S • Dave's' Mens S.hop 453'Sta~ St. (downtown Se~nectady) BREAKING BOX OFFICE RECORDS . .. MOST CONTROVERSIAL FilM OF THE YEAR! ''WE lOW HAVE THE AWFUL KNOWLEDGE TO MAKE EXACT COPIES OF HUMAN BEINGS!\ -The New York Times FAST MOV/NC EXCITEMENT AND TERROR! ... ONE MlN FIGHTING TO SAVE HIMSELF AND MANKIND IN A MIND·BENDING TRIP FROM THE BEGINNING· ••• TO AN END YOU CAN't FORGET! . SYD CASSYD \CLONES\ Hollywood Repclrt PROVIDES CHILLING AMUSEMENT \It is a swift and often skillfully directed adventure ... wonderfully eerie. The performances are surprisingly good, as is the effectively jazzy photography ... and percussive score. -John Koch Boston Herald American CINE 1·2·3·4 NORTHWAY MALL PROCTOR'S THEATRE SCHTDY LIMITED ENGAGEMENT 0/VE WEEK ONLY! · NOW Playin1 At Your Favorite MADISON Theatre 1030 MADISON AVE. ALBANY - Free P'ROCTOR'S THEATRE TROY -- - • ..

