.. st ] .. · n ~~­ • • • c;.) l ,. ~' .: '~·.~, •tt:i Jimmy and Santi's Band performing in the Coffeehouse; Friday. 8;30.;.0ld Chapel, 50¢ Vot 103, No. 14 \The road to Hell is pa.ved with good intentions:\ Anon. ~hursday, March 7, 1974 35 cents Don't miss the Mohawk River Submarine Races! Good Seats Still Available · Strea;k:ers have Raw. C-ourage_. ' Bonner Named -~ Nothing to Hide New President · Union College has cracked LUJder the academic pressures as str.eakers came witn their wares, arniving by foot, hike, and auto. !\bout 350 eager spectators, hacked by cowbells and' music, t;urned out on thursday morning at 1;00 A.M., filliRg Library Pfaza for 2 hours of pandemoneum. One streaker, when asked if the eelebration was related to Or. llonner's &.nnouncement responded, \Hell I didn't know ~·e had a new president. We're doing it 'because we don't have ;my hangups, see?\ ••super Str~aker\ One Union student, who described himself as .. Super Streaker\ telephoned i. V. Channel 6 on Wednesday March 6. and informed them that he would streak to the General Flectric main gate. fhe T.V. 6 camera crew was ass~mbled at GE as the \Super Sr.r~ak~r\ proudly · stomped by, with the T.V. crews in dose pursuit. Super streaker plit on fuU-stea.m an@ shook the tlisgrun~Ied media in downtown Schenectady, as traffic came to a grinding halt. \'Super Streaker\ later called hack T.V. 6 and boasted that Union would break the smalJ:.. school streltking record. presently held by Mahopac -Vocational College at 207. Inclement Weath~r Poor weather is predicted for Saturday nite's festivities, but many fra-ternities will brave the \\Cather. 1\n informed source ~fated that l l·nion's cheerleaders just might be upstaged at half-time during the LC. A. C'. basketball playoffs this \\Cckend. Police Baffled S.ecuritY Was frustrated in its attempt to disperse crowds of I hursday morning. Schenectady police arrived on the scene; and realizing there was little ·to be done, enjoyed the show. No l lnion students were arrested, but dscwhere in the n(ltion, .a 19 year l'>ld Mercer Community College Student was arrested for \open lewdness.\ Streak in Daylight I WO streakers erne-rged from parked cars Thursday morning March 7, to dance across the Lihrary Courtyard before 125 students at the II :30 a.m. break in classes. The streakers allegedly representing the D. U. fraternity, were clad in orange and yellow masks. h<~ckey socks and sneakers. One streaker was \\Caring a Timex wristwatch. After crossing in front of the Shaffer Library,. the streakers jumped into a get:-away car and sped off. Obese Streaker Of the 50 or so streakers of the lhutsday morning early hours, perhaps the most interesting of all \\Us the obese streaker, who \\obbled acnoss West College with his · massive stomach wobbling like a bowl of jello. Spotlights were set up in the third floor of West, which highlighted streakers. Psych Analysis Psychol·ogists at l)niQn College have left their gerbils running \in drcles to contemplate the ramifications of the campus rage. One spokesman termed streaking as a \healthy outlet to the tension manifested on campus.\ Another l:ritic, speaking with Concordy shortly before the daylight spectacle said, \Tell them to streak in the daylight.· They're yellow-bellied.\ Witnesses to the daylight streaking knew better. Isolated Incidents incidents of the previous '' cekend touched· off the streaking explosion of the past day, while incidents of Sigma Phi and A. D. Phi streaking to Smith II ouse have been reported as ''routine.\ '\ext week, foncordiensis will bring you play by play coverage of the week's sfreaking, plus a ''big\ pictoral. essay. by BILL TALIS The search for Union's next president c-ulminated 'on Monday, March 4, when University of New Hampshire Presii:Jent Thomas Bonner announced that he would serve as the 15th President of Union College. In a press conference held at UNH, he stated that he would take over the reins of Union on July l. work at Northwestern. ln a te le ph one interview with f\oncordy Dr. Bonner said, \We kept in touch <!fter we graduated. In 1962, he ran for the Senate in his state while l ran for Congress. While I lost, he won, and invited me to come to Washington as a legislative aid. I worked with ·him for a year, but wanted to get back to the academic world.\ Goals at Union Conflict With Loeb. Dr. Bonner was attracted to Union because of its \smaller campus and its closer contact with students and· faculty. Union College has commanded respect throughout its history, and has been innovative as a quality institution.\ Dr. Bonner's liberal administration and previous Once he has assumed the presidency, Bonner intends to \define what the unique strengths of the College are and develop a long-range plan that has the support of the campus and is exciting to aiumni and supporters. After informing .the different constituencies on college polit:y, then I will go out and find the money to do it, and develop a lot of enthusiasm, building a higher morale.\ association with Senator McGovern resulted in a protracted conflict with William Loeb, publisher of the Manchester Union-Leader. The paper is the largest newspaper in New Hampshire, and in the 1972 presidential race was responsible for a series of unsubstantiated. claims leading to Sen. Edmund M uskie's defeat. Because of his liberal reputation and association with Sen. McGovern, Dr.. Bonner pointed out, \our initial conflict came even before I arrived on campus. Mr. Loeb began doing a very slanted series about my background. The Union-Leader sent a reporter to Cincinnati to do an eleven-part series, interviewing unnamed persons, but no one who knew tne. •• The c h a r ism at i c and controversial president of UNH has a distinguished record as an eminent historian and capaBle administrator. The new president graduated from the University of Rochester in 1947 and took his doctorate in history at Nmthwestern University in I 952. Prior to serving as pr.esident of UNH, Dr. Bonner served at the University of Cincinnati as Professor of History (1963-68) and Provost (1967-71). Dr. Bonner received widespread recognition for the manner in which he ran UNH. During his three years -there he secured much public and legislative support increasing the budget and lowering tuitions for tw\o successive. years. M«,!ets George McGovern Dr. Bonner became associated with George McGovern while they both were doing doctoral The Manchester Union-Leader refused to comment to Concordiensis ·about any material contained in that series, or on its editorial views. After \arnvmg in New Hampshire in 1971, Dr. Bonner felt compelled to meet the challenge of the Union-Leader. He explained, \I toured the entire state, meeting with people and facing questions head-on.\ Of the 1972 campaign, Dr. Bonner stated, \Everyone was looking for me to become involved in the primary. Senator McGovern Was sensitive of my position, for when he came to lJNH as a primary candidate, he said that he understood the best t~ing he could do to help me would be to attack and denounce me.\ The students enjoyed the joke, but the press did not. lf pward Bound I he Union Leader, in attacking Honner's Upward Bound program made. \one of the most brutal and callous attacks ever leveled against a young person in the qate.\ Dr. Bonner said. \Our program was criticized and called a v.aste of money because a Black ~tudent had been arrested while he Was on the program. His picture in prison attire appeared on the front page and the editorial page, that reaches 63,000 homes. This boy's life was taken l\omplctcly out of context in the press. He is now doing very well. .. ln defending the program, Dr. Bonner said, .. what better way is there for rehabilitation than through education, and Upward Bound provides such an opportunity.\ Handled Legislature Despite the tremendous N. }ijieenth President College. s«?cunty of the university, .Honner explained, \A first rate communication program was developed that kept in touch with key people in the legislature and state educators, and virtually every town in the state.\ While the intensity of. the press's attack peaked in April and May of last year, the budget discussion was being processed, and Bonner stated, \They couldn't muster enough support in the legislature.\ Dr. Bonner secured a reduction in tuition from $1,000 to $900. Enjoys a Challenge When asked if the political fighting was a reason for his decision to leave UNH, Dr. Bonner. responded, \On the contrary, this kind of challenge was something I enjoyed. I left for basically two reasons: first, the personal sense of accomplishing what I set out to do three years ago at UN H; second, the attractions I saw in Union College, which were of a different. challenge. Warren Report Rohert Salllman. a Union graduate. will present a visual examination of all the evidence available to the Warren ComfTlission concerning the Kennedy assassmation. The lecture. entitled \The Warren Report: Fact or Fiction?\ will represent the Washington-based Committee to Investigate 1\ssassinations. and will be presented at Union on Thursday March 14 in SSO 16 at 7:30 p.m. · Saltzman proposes that Union's own rhythm and blues band, the Edward Fox Band, willplay with the Roomful of Blues on Saturday March 9. The dance is sponsored by the Pnion College Social Committee. The seven-piece band, comprising Jim Corwin, Carl Schwartz, Chris Fink. Hershel Raff, JJob Zastrow, Bob Bentley, and influence of the conservative press, Dr. Bonner developed a Larry Levitz .. will start off the dance with an program to overcome the threat hour of good boogie music before the of withholding state aid money. \ . , . .· The difficulty of Mr. Loeb~s Roomful comes on. Th~ Edward Fox ~and accusations was compounded by has played recently to Wlld crowds at Sz!(ma the election of Loeb's protege, Chi and Psi Upsilon fraternities. The cost of\ Mendon Thompson, to Governor the dance on Saturday is $1.00. · of New Hampshire. photo by Les1ie Steineker \without a doubt, ·the Warren Commission came to the wrong conclusion,\ and plans to show information available to the Commission which was ignored. He also comments that \the phenomenon of cover-up is a relevant issue.\ To support his arguments, Saltzman plans to show slides and films, including a. portion of \Executive Action,\ a recently released motion picture dealing with the Kennedy assassination. !\. 4 uestion and answer period is scheduled to follow the program. In order to secure the financial I

Pagel. CONCORDIENSIS, Thursday, March 7, 1974 Editors-i~-chief ...... u ......... Judy Dein, Bill Talis News Edit~r ............................. Phyllis Edelman Culture Editor .................................. Pete Sobol Sports Editor ................................. .Ba·rt Mercer Photo Editor .............. .- .................. Bill Erichson Ass't Photo· E•di'to·r Le. I' S · · k · .. .. .. • .. .. .. .. .. • • . · s te te1ne er Copy Editor ....... : ........................... Phil Alcabes . Blithering Editors ..................... Ro·l> Modschein B - . . . . Chris O'Connor us~ness Editor ............................. Alan Gnessin Nahon!ll ~dverti~ing ...................... Steve K:el1ey SubscnptiOns Edttor .............. Genie Rosenblum Layout_ ..... : .. : .......... Dav~ Strom, Linda Mackey <;onc:ordiensis is published every Thursday by the student body of Umon C:ollege, Old Gy~ f!all~ Schenectady, N.Y., Publications Office, The Jew1sh World P~bhcat1ons~ 771 State St., Schenectady, N.Y., 12307 (346-2356). En~er~d m the Schenectady Post Office as Second Class Matter: S~bscnpt1o_n Rate 35 cents per copy; $8.00 a year delivered ~nywhere m the Umted States. Deadline for copy is Tuesday 5:00 P.M. - . - .. - . - -- Make the G:rade The issue of cha'nging the grading system at Union will be decided' by the All-College Senate at its next meeting, on March 21. We would hope that the Senate will at -thattime take action representative of student opinion; To determine student sentiment on the issue, the Senate will take a poll next week. The arguments for and against the various grading systems are complex. Considerations of graduate school o'pinion, fairness, and distinction hetwe~n plus and minus grades must be reconciled. We feel that this is a difficult question; nest resolved by the opinion of a plurality of students. The editorial staff of Concordy -itself was split on the issue, as the student body will surely be. The time for demagoguery, on the part of this newspaper, the Steering Committee, or the All-College Senate, is past. The issue should be quickly and decisively acted upon by the . Senate, on the basis of student support for one of the proposed systems. The student body must go out of its way next week to express itself to the Senate, so that this issue may, with finality, be dealt with. th., editors · Whcit we have here ... Thomas Bonner announced his acceptance of the office of Union College President, Monday afternoon, March 4, at the University of New Hampshire. It seemed to come as a surprise to no one save the Union College community. Saturday, the Union College Public Relations ·Bureau mailed out Union news releases, announcing the decision of the Board of Trustees to ask Mr. Bonner· to be the next President of the College and his acceptance of that decision. Presumably, the mailing (through the local New York State and New England media) was distributed by mail on Saturday, March 2, for it was received on Monday the 4th. The message of Dr. Bonner's. acceptance had Tuesday's date, at the request· af Dr. Banner ·who wished t<> ·keep the story quiet until he had had a chance to make his acce.ptance public. On Friday night, the Knickerbocker News-Union Star called Dean Mark Smith to verify the news on Bonner. As Dean Smith had not been informed, he could not respond to the inquiry. On Sunday, March 3, the Boston Globe printed a story speculating that Dr. Bonner would be Union's next president; prior to this, newspapers in New Hampshire, including UNH's student newspaper, had surmised the same thing. Neither Concordy, nor faculty members~ nor at least two Deans, Moore and Smith, were informed before the weekend as to Dr. Bonner's wishes not to have the story revealed early. By Tuesday everyone knew, as the story was carried over radio and television Monday night. It was an unfortunate delay in the intra-campus communications system which brought the official announcement to us over 12 hours after it was broadcast on the radio. When the announcement was released, Union College ppblic relations gave the outside world .a higher news priority than its own community. On I\fpnday afternoon, according to the Knickerbocker News. Phil Johnson hand- delivered information of Dr. Bonner's acceptance·. Concordy wished to know why deans, Concordy, and all other interested parties were not contacted while preparations were being made to inform the outside world. Mr. Johnson, when asked, said tha.t it was the Administration's responsibility to inform the community; his job was only to contact the media, and not t() decide whom to contact personally. When asked about the working relationship between ( 'oncordy and the information bureau, Mr. Johnson said that the College paper should be treated on an equal oasis with the other local media. Concordy feels that it should have priority over local media, as Concordy has a vested interest, impact, and responsibility to.the Unio11 community. ' You Said ltf . . Profs Rate Grades •A--. I might be persuaded to use 'the more discriminating system. . Note, though, that the logical Roth & Butzel Editors: Concordiensis: We are in constant close touch with graduate and professiona-l schools and know that most admissions deans or committees stl'ongly prefer fine tuning in grading systems. Such institutions feel that understanding and evaluation of individual students is enhanced by a+/- system .. Union students may be suffering in some cases through competition with students from comparable institutions which do use the more intensive system. In addition, we believe· we can make such disttinctions validly and equitably, and prefer to have tile opportunity to do so since the distinction of a whole grade .point between two students separated by relatively small differences in actual performance seems unfair. Clearly faculty who cannot or do not wish to make finer distinctions would not be compelled to use all the steps available. Thus it seems to us that at least some students and faculty would benefit and none would be penalized by the proposed change to a +/- system. Professor Willard D. Roth Professor Henry M. Butzel Kenney . . Editors: Concordiensis: circumstances this might be true, it would be awfully nice to have the option of making such- distinctions when the need arose. The only rea'l differenc;e between ~n 8~point and 12-Qpil~t approach IS the degree of <hshnctton one. wants built into the system; the adoption of either one would be beneficial to both students and faculty. Sincerely, Jim Kenney Asst. Prof. of Economics Wylen Editors:. Conco~diensis: I am in favor of the twelve point grading .system for a variety of reasons: (Given i.n no particular order). I) Many professors feel that they can differentiate grades to the twelve point degree - such differentiation would be a useful indicator of student perfor- mance. (Many professors already grade on a twelve point (or higher) scale and convert to the five point scale.). 2) Some professors feel that they cannot differentiate grades to the twelve point degree - these professors need not use all twelve points. 3) A student nearing the end of a course with a \B\ average might be motivated to work extra har.d (and thereby learn something more) to achieve the \B+\ or·\ A-,\ whereas now the leap from \B\ to \A\ might require more e!tort than the student is willing to make. 4). Deans list and Honors decisions might be more meaningful under the twelve point system. e~tension of the propo~ed changes would r;equ•ire a continuum af grades from. 0 to 5. Tnus, someone might receive the grade 2 -.iT!n some course; and I can•t help picturing a graduate scl\ool· admissions committee interpreting that. T.A. Bi~k Perspective Editors: Concordiensis: If there is a resentment towards Perspective~ it may be due in large part to the anta:go'nistic manner in which many whites perceive it to be written. While I freely accept that blacks are in a somewhat disadvan~agecl position on the Union College Cam,pus, the way to change that position is to try a kind of reconciliation with their could-be supporters, net to antaganise (sic} them. It is my feeling, and th.e feeling of a good nttmber of· my associates, that Perspective is now on the later (sic), self-defeating, antagonistic track. lf the expressed purpose of the Black Stugent Alliance is to promote lack natwnal · and cultural feelings, and that is what most of their activities are aimed at, why does the purpose not extend to the BSA newspaper. In the most recent .issue, the paper basically fulfills those aims. However, antagonistic items such as a .. Don't Tread On Me\ rattle snake. and cartoons depicting blacks in chains reprinted from Given that there is a need for a grading system at Union (at least from the point of view of graduate ~nd professional schools and prospective employers), it ~eems to me that the best system 1s one that renders the most accurate possible evaluation of each student's performance and thus minimizes the arbitrary decision-making in the case of \borderline\ students. The weakness of the existing five point •grading system is that evaluation is not very precise and the number of borderline dedsions can be significant. f-Iaving always graded on a 12-point scale myself (except, of course, for the formal submission of grades at Union) .. I would estimate that about 1/3 ·()f the students to whom l have given grades at Union have not fallen unambiguously into the prevailing letter-grade classifications. As long as we believe that grades measure something I think that we should fry to make our measurements as accurate as possible. My own teaching experience indicates to me that a twelve point system is . the optimum. Nnth Carolina and Philadelphia papers temLto undo all the good of the rest of paper. A front page article on \political prisoners\ in North Carolina, something that, if true, most Whites at Union would condemn, also seems to be . somewhat out of place in a newspaper that, if read, would have a mostly white readership, It is fine for a paper with an almost completely black readership, but since Perspective is distributed through Conc:ordiensis, the white students' newspaper, one can only presume that it is not meant for an almost completely black The proposed 12-point system offers much finer distinction in performance and is appealing for that reason alone. It also greatly reduces the likelihood of \agonizing\ over the a11signment of any grade and assures greater equity in the grading process. The argument has been made that the fine distinctions required by the 12-point system simply cannot be made. Although· in some Bick Sincerely, H.E. Wylen Editors: Concordiensis: The present five-point system is fine enough for me, but it is conceivable that some instructors require a more precise scale. I would not want to impose my grading system on such an instructor, and since I can continue to use· the five-point scale, any of the proposed changes are acceptable; indeed, if someone can explain to me the ·difference between a B++ and an photQ by Leslie Steineker Guest speaker for the newly-:formed Canine Club approaches the podium. readership. · . If the BSA really wams to integrate blacks into the Union College community as fully functioning members with their own identity, I would like to make . the following suggestions, First, since in order to get whites to listen to Perspective.they must · first read it, write Perspective with a -little more attention to how whites will view it. Second, make an effort ·to associate with the ' 4 White\ campus. If blacks just . stick ·to themselves, they reinforce popular misconceptions and simply make things harder for themselves. And finally, continue to sponsor black cultural events, like Black Experience II and the Art show of last spring. If, however, the BSA wishes simply to remain separate, then I must insist that Perspective not be part of Concordiensis, and that if Perspective is written solely for a black audience; it be distributed separately from Concordy, which is written for a mostly white a lid i en ce. This separate distribution may be a step towards lessening tension, as many of the whites whom .It now antagonises (sic) would feel no reason to be antagonised (sic) by it. In the hope that the Black Student Alliance will take the first of the two possible tracks, I am sincerely yours. · Marc S. Altman Pre--registration materials for Sprihg tc'rm are now available in the office of the Registrar in the Administration Building. Cou-rse requests due by :\larch 18 so hurry! ',\ ' ~: i' ·' ., :~ \ ~ . i '. ·,. .Aef. :., ; '·

·~~· ,· ··t'' :1 . J ~-~l ! I ~ I ,, t(l <1 . ' ' I ·' .,.,. a ~~\ I '1 ;,\ '! I ; '~ f .~ ~· f ·\ ~ i' ., ,. 0! ' :ti,i 1 l ' { I .;i' ' ·\ '. 'i I I : t .. , . ·~ ~i' . '• .·., ! -'rf.:.; I ' ' ' ~·-~ ¥' ~-~ ;. '~~ ;! ' ' ~~J - :r :.· ~ \ ·) .'~ ·-~! 'I ' ' . ~ ·~') 11'1 !· ! 6 ·· .. ij +'~~ ' .. : ~ ! '; ~ ,,, ; 11 ~> ·~-~ \ , I $'~ ' . ·.·' ~{:. ~ • CONCORDIENSIS, Thursday, March 7, 1974 Page3 -Opinion E. . h. . n . p· ·. . ~ I d. •· · .. · · . 1g· .. t rolnts .· re 1 erre .. Soon, for the second iime, a new grading system . will be brought to a vote. Effo_rts li.ave been made to instruct buth the faculty and the students in what a change to an 8 point .system (A, Aj B. B ... ) or a 12 or IJ point ~ystem (A. A\ B+, B. .. with the 13th point being a.n A+) would really mean. Reading some letters to the editors, and speaking to many others, it seems that several lallad:ous expJanations for the proposed change are s.till commorily accepted. Clarification is apparently ne.cessary. A change to a more specific system is not '!n attempt to either raise or lower overall indexes: only time will tell wha,t the general affect wtll be. Under the present system, it appears that for ~very borderline A/B. that has been reported as an A. there have been numerous ones that· have gone on re<;ord as a B. What this means is that students have not been rece1vmg higher ~:umes · because they have been squeaki.ng bv with borderline A's or lower c~mes because they have gotten B's. In the end it all evens out. There are several valid reasons lor a more specificgradingsystem, the primary one being that it is fairer to the· students. Grades, however painful they may be, are considered an evaluation of the student. Since, in the opinion of the rest of the world (i.e. graduate schools, employment 'agencies). grades are deemed necessary, as equitable a gradeu as possible should be given. It is my belief that a change in ~he grading system is acceptable if it wil'l enable Union students to compete more fa.irly for graduate school' admissions and jobs. An H point system would give the professors the opportunity to make the distinctions they feel necessary in grading a class fairly. Contrary to popular belief, most professors are not out to destroy the students. Rather, they would like to give the most accurate judgeme.nt of the student's ability. I do feel, however, that the 12 point system would be self· defeating. By asking teachers to differentiate between a B+ and an A-. one is leaving them open to the accusations of personal preferences: \He lil<es me, so .he'H tdvc me the A-... \ While several teachers have claimed that they can fairlv make the small distinction~ between the two grades. (and this .is very debatable.), I feel that it will also only increase apple polishi-ng since the· difference is so small. Leave us some pride in ourselVes as students of knowledge, don't force us to be students of grades. In a 12 point syst~m. students will· not he content with a B+ because with a little more effort or smiling, perhaps they could have hit the A- category. Consequently, I do advocate a Naked Truth. The campus populace has taken up a new craze with all the fervor with which old collegiates greedily swallowed goldfish. The new activity has caught like wild-fire and continues to hecome more popular each weekend. Some conservatives may question its merit. but many students foresee a real \loosening- up\ of the superficial, tight \friendships\ of the recent past. exhilaration. To date, the small college streaking record is 137, held by MahOpac Vocational College. l.ast Saturday night saw an historic event for Union College. Twelve hearty streakers took a leisurely tour of Union's star-lit campm\ making a brief call on several strategic dorms and a party at Delta Chi. After talking briefly with one streaker Who exclaimed how invigorating his charades were, his comrade retorted, \We're going for the record next week- .end: 200 streakers.;. change to a more specific grading system, if the system is an 8 point one. If graduate schools find this unacceptable, l wo~:~ld strongly urge the students to vote for no change. The distinction between an A and a B is great enough t0 v.arrant an intermediate grade, •lmt the distinctions called for under the 12 point system are unnecessary and would only increase the stress on grades. Guest Speakers jgd On March 12 in SSOI6, the Politic~l Forum presents a pro·gram on overthrow of the Allende Go vern me nt,\ pt:esented a movie at 4:30 p;m. · el1titled \When the People Awake'' and at 8:00 Steve \':olk. a member of the North Ameriqm Congress of Latin America will speak on the · subject and lead a discussion. Refreshments too!!! * * * * Russian affairs expert Marshall :D. Shulman will lecture on \Detente .after the Middle East,\ Wednesday, March 13. The program, set for 8 p.m. in SS 016 will be free and open to the public. A specialist in contemporary Soviet affairs, Shulman is Director of the Russian Institute at Columbia University, where he Is Professor of Government. A former U.S. State Department official. his books on S0viet affairs include Stalin's Foreign Policy , Reappraised, and Beyond the Cold War. The Wednesday lecture is sponsored by Union's Comparative Communist Studies Program, the ·International Relations Club, the Political Forum, and the Lester Fund. Skyjacking Talk by ROBERT GERBER B y i n vita t ion O· f -the International Relations Club, John Gatch of the State Department spbke on .. Terrorism and Hijacking.\ Gatch is a member of the Presidential Cabi.net Committee to Combat Terrorism. The committee was commissioned in Sept., 1972 and its members include the Secretaries of State. Defense, Transportation, the Attorney General, and the Directors of the CIA and FBI. The committee was mandated by the President \to prevent terrorism at home and abroad and to manage all crises.\ Several times it was mentioned that all resources are at the committee's disposal. The four ways in which these resources· could be used were outlined. They are, intelligence. physical security, making success in hijacking improbable aqd remove aU underlying reasons for terrorism. The first method includes the John Gatch, of the U.S. State Department, lecturing on \Terrorism and H~jacking.\ \Mission Impossible\ methods of · . . adventure, counter-terrorism, and to the new atrport secunty the not-so-glamorous methods. A new law will go into international agencies. The effect in a month which will set second deals with the ac.tual minimum requirements on aiiport physic a I security of security for all ~lanes COIP;ing into establishments like embassies and the country. airports (bullet-proof · glass: The possibility of future armour, etc.). The method of internal terrorism by oppressed making a successful hijacking groups was brought up. The unlikely includes denying them Wounded Knee trial was singled sanctuary in other countries. out as a possibility. The F.B.I. Doing so is difficult'because, says has had great success so. far a~d, Cia.tch. \One man's terrorist is as a result. the domestic poh~y another man's patriot.\ has been to grant the terronst The fourth method was defined v.hat he wants and then try to as beyond the scope of the apprehend the culprit. committee; they can not deal with Politically motivated terrorism terrorists groups. is a relatively new phenomenon. After talking about terrorist When asked if stricter sanctions incidents such as the Munich v.ould deter it, Gatch responded. Massacre. the speaker said that \When people are willing to the United States would not ~acrifice. their lives to publicize sUbmit to blackmail on the their cause sanctions will have international scene. He pointed little effect;\ the speaker was out that there has not been a optimistic, nevertheless. successful skyjacking in the United States since November. 1972. Gatch attributed this mainly The new craze is called \streaking.\ U consists of a bunch of drunken revelers roaming the campus in the wee hours of the morning. A pair of Converse sneakers (and possibly a watch) is the widely, accepted attire. Not in a long, long time has there been a sport that offers such freedom and physical We of the \Union Campus Streaking Society\ fervently hope that the student populace will he'artily support us, cheer us on, and even join in the nocturnal festivities! All-College Senate Dirty Harry Winner of the \World Film Favorite\ Award, Clint Eastwood is the international top box office attraction. In real life, Eastwood is an animaJ lov:er who ab}lors any kind of cruelty, a complete pushover for kindness and consideration. Route of the Rowdi~s. \A QUIET BAR ... A PLACE TO TALK\ THE Red Fox Inn PIZZA FRIDAY& SATURDAY 5·12 P.M. BUD BY THE PITCHER 123 JAY ST. SCHENECTADY by PETER T AVINO The All-College Senate met for the second time this term on Thursday, Feb. 28 in Old Chapel. After the Senate accepted the minutes of the previous meeting .they ratified the courses approved hy the Curricular Affairs Committee as well as Transdisciplinary Studies in the Multi-National Management Progrnm. · The Committee o'n the Standing of Students proposed changing governance laws so that students on the Committee would be considered full committee members. Arguments in favor of the proposal included the feeling that \student understanding of students may well be better than . that of faculty and administrators.\ and that \overall student suspiCions about the Committee's procedures, motivations, and its basic fairness will b~ allayed.\ In opposition to the proposed change are those who feel that some students appearing before the Committee because of poor academic performance may object to the presence of student Committee members when cases are discussed. Two members of the Committee, Professor N. Allen and Bruce Downsborough, spoke to the committee, against and for the proposal, respectively. The · proposal was then voted and lost. Provost Enteman next reviewed the Master Plan of the College for 1974, which defines Union's goals irt the future. There was some discussion concerning facilities and construction on campus. Dean Smith noted that it would be wise for the school to set priontlcs and meet them as money becomes available. The Senate next considered a motion by Larry Brown concerning Union's participation in national post-season sport competition. The New Englaad · Small College Athletic Conference, to which we belong, prohibits such competition. The advantage in belonging to the conference is that practice times, ·game scheduling, and high-.school recruiting methods are regulated. However, some students from other colleges in NESCAC are also disturbed by the tournament rules. Professor Wells stated that Union should take a serious look at the importance of the entire athletic program here as it affects us. T~e Senate decided not to pass any resolutions but to send the issue to the Athletic Committee for their considerations. This means that the matter Will be placed on the agenda for the March 21 meeting. It was hoped hy some Senators that the issue will still be of major importance, even after our basketball team finishes its season. The Provost reviewed two calendar plans; one provides for a long winter break from Thanksgiving to January 6; the other has a split winter term. l'hese will be considered at a future meeting. ' I Hut he's got a screen reputation for violence that grew out of his tough roles in such ··spaghetti westerns\ as A Fistfull of Dollars and For a Few Dollars More, in which his ruthlessness made him a disreputable but admired kind of movie hero. With his enorm<>us success in those roles, he kept the ruthless image when he resumed making pictures in America. He was tough cowboy, or a tough soldier, or a tough deputy sheriff, and right now he's a tough police detect.ive in Dirty Harry. Eastwood plays the title role in this action-suspense drama, the epithet indicating that Harry always gets the worst jobs on the force. This time he's after a maniacal killer who has vowed to murder one person a day until sufficient ransom is paid. Starring with him in Dirty Harry are Harry Guardino, Reni Santoni, Andy Robinson, John Larch and John Vernon as The Mayor. Filmed entirely on location in San Francisco, the Technicolor feature is a Warner Bros.-Malpaso Company Production, and is the latest in a series of four films made by Eastwood and director Don Siegel. Dirty Harry wilt be shown by Film Haps, Sat. and Sun. March 9th and lOth, at 7, 9 and II p.m. in SS 016. $I .00 admission.

Page4 CONCORDIENS!S, Thursday, Mo,rch 7, 1974 Women's Week In Retrospect Women's Week (Feb. 24- March 2) comprised a series of panel discussions, lectures, films, and workshops concerned with all aspects offemaleparticipation in society and in their families. It was sponsored by the Women's Caucus, a new orf?anization which has extended its irifluence past the women on campus, and has successfulty made the college aware oft he changing roles of women in our society, Porker Speaks by PHYLLIS EDELMAN Speaker during Women's Week at Union College, Gail Tha·in Parker, President of Bennington College, noted that the \Women's movement is alive and well and better than I've ever seen it.\ Ms. Parker commented that women are \making real progress in the courts,\ with the Equal Rights Amendment coming right along. Speaking autobiographicaHy, she said that the \freak\ element in the women's movement is dying down, She has considered herself a \notable national freak\ for the past year and a half as a result of her Presidency and her husband's role as her second..:in~ command at Bennington College. On a recent trip to India, Ms. Parker claimed, none of the Indians thought it unusual for her to he! President o{ an institution of higher learning. She explained that in India all presidents of female institutions of higher learning are women. calculate the number of children they plan to have and when_ On a somewhat disheartening note, Ms. Parker mentioned that there are \very good, women for t:Very job available, hut there are too few jobs to go around. \I hope,\ Ms. Parker said, ••that more and more women will work and enter the working force on levels they have been barred from in the past.\ Ms. Parker claimed tht it is unfortunate that women who are already within the working force \will be beaten out of the higher positions .Oy the htight, young women whe are just entering the working world.\ Finally; Ms. Parker predicted that \the obnoxious phrases of ·women's lib' will not he heard. I hope more women Will refer to themselves as feminists. not libbers.\ .WOmen & -Law b.Y BARBARA ROSLYN The third .night of. Women's Week a panel discussion entitled \W.ome·n and L.aw,\ was presented, · The first speaker, Meg Opalka, represents. a Schenectady group staffed by para~professionals who l!lispense free legal advice. Many of the members started 0tit knowing virtually nothing about counseling: or law. They received money from the Schenectaqy Community Action Program and they were trained lily :U~gal Aid. Originally they deaJ;t with women'S matrimonial problems: separa.tio.ns !!·tid divorces: Soon they were able to diverge and work with j-uveni.le courts handling custody cases. They presently are involved in handling uther C!lses, such as consumer \\ ork <1 nd tenant problems_ Th~ group also now works on a project dealing with young single mothers, and is In the process of producing leaflets whic.h would inform students of their rights. Besicles providing legal adVice. the volunteers advise indivi.(Juals how to make their way through the bure~:~ uctatic set-up. There is a lay advocate who can represent an individual in court. Ms. Opalka seemed to feel that The wives of the foreign service officers she met in India \'!ere \parodies of what wives were like in 1952.\ The,se wives are totally \dependent upon their husband's job and his social position ... their lives are swallowed up with domestic cares, as it is difficult to survive as an upper-middle class American in Indian society. A few years ago my perception was that they led somewhat enviable lives._.Yet, not only was I depressed, but they were depressed.\ As a result of the impact of \Women's lib\ on these women, they \now find their lives intolerable.\ Women and Equality women face a great number of problems in court. She said that \Good decisions can be as sexist as bad decisions.'' The Legal Aid Society is located over the Firehouse on · Albany St. Volunteers are needed to counsel clients and do legal It is now \permissible and wholesome for women to have a life of therr own,\ Ms. Parker ·emphasized. Consequently, more . women delay having children or limit the size of their families. Birth control methods have gained wider acceptance, perhaps in part due to what Ms. Parker cha racteriies as the \depression mentality.\ Due ~o the expense of raising children, families. tend to by ELAINE DIMPELFIELD ·•our society will mature when we recognize people as individuals.\ maintained New York State Senator Mary Ann Krupsak at the opening of Women's · Week last Sunday. ••There is a subtle underpinning of discrimination: women are not taken seriously ... People should be considered as equals. · \Women should get involved in many aspects of politics: in running campaigns, projecting views, running for office. forming c.ampaign structures, and Self Defense by CINDY SHEPPARD \Wonien· are basically· better suited to fighting than men,\ said senior Skip Jameson. He and Todd Cavalier addressed a small !!(oup attending a self defense workshop as part of Union's Women's Week, last Saturday in the Arts Building. I hey demonstrated several lobbying,\ she said. Lobbying like politics. is not always a dirty ' word;\ it may be a legitimate means of letting legislators know the issues. facts and opinions of f.he constituents_ \The real role of women is not treading watet or filling time. but looking ahead and planning. · ·\The laws already have eql!ality huilt in, but we need the cou'rts to apply them fairly,\ she said. Since the 14th amendment should already guarantee women equality, she sef'!S the Equal Rights Amendment as redundant. Ms. Krupsak spoke of early feminist movements which wanted the vote not as an end, hut as_ a means for \women to influence agendas and decisions 11f legislatures.\ These women received the right to vote, but not the influence or equality they sought. She fears that the Equal Rights Amendment wan't achieve cljuality for women either. \Equality will come if more women come into office and take leadership roles. defensive techniques for thwarting an attacker, and then participants tried them out in pairs. The moves consisted of defensive act ion which would surprise the · · aggressor, making it possible to Ms. Krupsak still feels she is \an ignored member in an unresponsive legislature.\ However, she expects to run for l.ieutcnant Governor of· New York State in the 1974 election. Although she feels she h~:~s better qualifications and more cc'<perience than the candidates for <iovernor. she admits that it llee the scene. The leaders pointed out that \cry of'ten an attacker is so surprised when a·woman puts up a struggle that this in itself is a 'alua ble aid in defense. 1\ftcr a period of discussion and then trying out the techniljucs. participants watched a demonstration of more advanced forms of the martial arts. Although there is no such instruction available on campus. there is a club foi the martial arts \\hich meets three times a week at 2 p.m.. on Monday and Wednesday in the Old Chapel and on Friday in the Arts Building. room 202. Jameson urged all to attend. and noted that Women c~pecially would find them \aluable. ··!.•. ,~ •. ••.•• , ···~···~·~~···· ·.:·:.._ . ·;:::..: .... ~ ... ~f.~--· .... •· . ·~~·='«-· •.0:•. :ac'v. ·-::-;•. .,.... ~,. ••• •\• ._..., ..,.,,, . Correction: In an articte entitled \Don't Count Your Chickens Before I hey Hatch,\ in last week's issue. Concor:dy enoneously indicated that the surgicalprocess of\ Men- strual extraction'' is an abortion. In this par.ticulat procedure it is never known if pregn~ncy is terminated. which is an Important psychological factor to the \\oman involved. The Editors research. \\ould be untealisfic to run for that office, both ' because of financial considerations and prejudice towards the female sex. Marge ,Ka:rc;:iwe: :·the second ' speaker: 1s a third-year law student at Albany Law School. After 17 years as a housewife, this Smith graduate and mother of six decided to enter Law School. She was deeply concerned with events occurring around her. \law might be effective in helping to bring about changes.- It is a S e v e r a I exam p I es we r e presented of ways in which men and women are treated differently: women do not get t:qual pay for equal work; widowers do not get social security benefits from their wives' earnings; insurance companie~~ give different premiums and benefits to men and women. magnificent stud:r of human relationships, and we ought to know how the law governs our lives,\ Ms, Karowe said. Ms. Karowe credited the women's moveme.nt with bringing about many of t'he changes in our society. Ms. Karowe is presently involved in· a women's organization which is located at many 'other law schools; it is working to bring about a revision in textbooks used at law schools. l'he schools lack \a kind of perception about . women and their position in the Ia w and in society.\ Ms. Karowe claimed • .Jn the lectures as well as the textbooks women are portrayed as incompetent, having estate or matrimonial troubles .. There is no sensitivity to family structures or relationships on the part of the professors.\ Senator Krspsak's point in bringing up these topics was to show that areas of discrimination freljuently cannot be dealt with directly by the law; whether or not the law is actually enforced is often the determining factor in whether equality is achieved. Unfortunately, many people cannot afford legal aid and many agencies already have a large hack load of ca~es. it would help, K rupsal< claims, i( the legislature gave more aid to t}le ·Human r{ ights Budget and others. Levrs; · Da'Ye's Mens Shop. -83 State• St. '(clQwa&~ Scbenectady) The third speaker, Cathleen · Katz. is a graduate of Albany l.aw School. When she entered I.aw SchGol in 1966 she was the only woman there. Like Ms. Karowe. she was married and had two children when she entered the school. She is presently a partner in the only female law firm in Albany. Powers & Katz. Womeh need a special reason for attending law school, she said. Some clients do not think women should charge as much as men do hecause they are not as capable .as the men. . ~- -- LeVI'S ·~.· .. , ,.~t~ ~ . '.? ~t1 (. · .. ~ '.•\ ·' .. : . ,;· >.1 ' Jr) '>';\-.! , .• 1-, . ·: i 'i '·•,j '\ ~r \ i ) l I . . r ;~ I ... -\'!.{· i! 1i ' .

ith rts a of nt at st is l. X e r t ' ' ~- '\ I • Vol. 2, No.4 Perspective's View The turbulent sixties was marked by a high degree of student involvement an(l concern for campus administrative policies. Yet today, in direct contrast, we witness widespread apathy among many college students. This particularly touches home when we examine the attitudes and the lack of interest that a considerable number of our brothers and sisters at Union display with regard 'to conditions here. What we as Black students should do is to focus our attention on those conditions which are in need of change. We must, in essence, direct our energies to instituting progressive change,theFebypushing Union College into the mid-l)eventies. This can occur· only if we sensitize our minds to our environment and the events whiCh are happening all around us. Too long our bl~ck awareness has been anesthetized by the sterility of this small, private, college environ- ment. One condition in need of change which immediately comes to mind is the lack of Black personnel on Union's campus. At present, aut of a professional and faculty staff of well over 250, there are only about 10 bla~ks. To compound the issue, Union College has not made any serious attempt to increase the number Qf Black professionals ner has it felt the need to. For our college environ- ment to. be truly representative of the society at large, efforts should be made to increase the diversity of the campus community ther.eby creating a pluralistic and wholesome college population. Such a goal can not be achieved merely on the student level, attemptsmust be made to recruit not only minority students but also qualified minority faculty, minority administrators and other needed professionals. We as Black students and members of the Union College community should make efforts to encourage the hiring of Blacks by Union College; and also become more aware of other unfavorable conditions. Blacks and Sports Am I going blind or is there a shortage of brothers involved in Union College sports? Let's take a look at what I call the three major. sports: football, basketball, and track. First let's look at football. If you just judge this year you might think that there was a shortage but let's look again. There were five brothers on the Varsity and two on the Freshman team. Well counting the fact that I saw only one brother on Van~ity this year I began to wonder and this is what I found. The other f'our were on the injury list and were unable to play. Those of both t·eams with whom I was able to talk with said that they were given a fair shake. They were given the chance to play as much as anyone else on the team. So there is no problem in Football so let's go to the track team. \\'ell l found out that last year there were about five brothers giving their all for Union in 'arious events of track and field. I his year there are about six brothers giving their all. I have not found one dissatisfied note uttered from any of these brothers. They are all giv~ a fair shake and allowed to let their talents expand in order to help their team win. Now let's go to the final of the sports and the one I found the most disturbing: Basketball. that the coaches dQ not let the brothers play. Now from my own observations and from those of an extremely reliable source, this is what went on this year. Out of the 14 games played up until this article, the one brother on the l'reshma n team played 3 times. Twice he played for less than I min. and the third time when he played, he played for over 25 min. and he played great. It was evident in this game· that this brother Could play. He played relaxed ahd natural as all the brothers on campus play. He did not play the robot style' that the other team members played. Could this be the reason why the coaches do not let the brothers play: because they can't be Continued on Next Page PERSPECTIVE Mareh 7, 1974 .Gerald F. Cooke: \Jerry's Upward Bound ... '' Recently, Gerald Cooke, who is Assistant Director of Project Upward Bound, submitted his resignation. Jerry's resignation wiU become effective March J,J, and he will be taking a well- earned vacation · in London, England. Jerry will be continuing his formal education in a M.B.A. pro.gram. Being hilingual • in Spanish and English. he has his eye toward a career in international business administration. Upward Bound Last March, Jerry officially became the Assistant Director of Upward Bound here at Union College. Upon commenting on his career at Upward Bound he said, \Upward Bound has made education at Union relevant.\ He feels that the program has given him the oppor.tunity to use the skills he has gained and in return, \share these skills with others who are trying to maintain an education.\ Upward Bound. has a considerable enrollment of Spanish, Black and White students. The program is struct1:1red to meet the \ ... needs and struggles... \ of ·these students. He feels that Union has done something for the program, however, it can always need more help. Assistance, needles·s to say, should come from all channels of the Union community. He stated that. \ ... the students of Upward Bound look forward to meeting college students. To them one five-minute meeting is worth a thousand words.\ Moreover, Jerry went on to say that, \ ... there are a number of Union students who d.rop in the Upward Bound office, simply to rap, ask yuestions, offer suggestions and/ or assistance. The program thrives off such people and I would like to see this number of interested persons increased.\ School Life While Jerry was a student at Union College, he said he had\ ... encountered more social Jerry Cooke, Assistant Director of Upward Bound, and Mrs. Janet Brown, College Coordinator of Upward Bound in their office on the second floor of Stoller Hall. Both are leaving Union for better stomping grounds. difficulties than academic. I think it was difficult for whites to relate to me just as a person and not see me as a Black person. Blacks who have gone to school like Union learn how to deal effectively in a white environment and at the same time, maintain their identity and dignity. It's difficult to go from an educational structure without seeing social and ethnic differences ; nevertheless, instead of capitalizing such differences we should acknowledge them, accept them, and strive to go beyond them.\ Hints and Intuitions \I don't think Union's ideology behind accepting Blacks has changed very much in the past four yeats. Union accepts Blacks as students who are interested in securing some academic back- ground and discipline, and at the same time maintain some semblance of a Black culture (social life). It is not the responsibility of the college to provide that Black culture, but it is their responsibility to assure Black students of the privilege to maintain their culture oh campus. I think Union has progressed toward this goal and .at this point, I think students are now actively engaged in academics, the cultural aspects of Union, and the Black culture that has been created. I do think, however, there is room for growth on both parts. Blacks at Union· have come a long way since I 969, but there will always be obstacles, which are not necessarily institutional. Blacks will be needed and should be able to 'J>roductively overcome those obstacles and institute change. Final Thougbts \In retrospect, I've .~een that Union does not make it easy for the Blacks as they have done for the whites. I have found my relationship with Union and nearby communities extremely ·productive and rewarding, and I only hope that each and every Black student who completes Union can honestly say the same. Of course,. unless you can\ you haven't taken full advantage of the opportunity for which you have worked all your life. 'Keep 1)11 truckin ... !' Gerald F. Cooke with Special Assistance by Aseba B. Harris The Black Experience II will be presented by members of the Black Students Alliarice on Friday, March 8. The performance is a production showing the Black performing arts. The production will sample the theatre, modern dance, poetry and live music. \\'hen one outside of Union ( 'ollcgc asks a brother is he is on II nion's basketball team. the most t!Cncral response is \Me! On That team! You Must he cra7.y.\ Since last year and this year together, ahout four brothers have tried out and only two were accepted: one lor each vear. Now for a brother to make s.uch a negative statement about a sport that is !>Ccond nature to him. something must be 11 l'ong. So I did some question a~king and a lot of observations and I c<Hildn't believe what I lou nd. One point jnst a bout all the brothers mentioned at'ld one t h;rt I saw with- my own eyes is GEMS OF THE FUTURE will play at the d_ance March 8 after the performing arts presentation the B.S.A. is presenting in Memorial Chapel at Union. The group will cut an album during the second week in March in Syracuse for the Continental Records Co. Last year members of the Alliance organized an art exhibition showing samplings of the visual arts of Black Americans. The proceeds from that exhibit (including a dinner) went for office supplies for Perspective. lhe proceeds from this production will go to the Hamilton Hill Drop-in Arts Center.

PageB PERSPECTIVE, Thutsday, March 7, 1974 T. Watts, Editor, 1301 Lenox Road Schenectady, N.Y. 12308 Sadama N.. Horns, Assistant Editor Roger A. MacDonald, Photography Mailyn· Bedon Gloria V. Jones Stephen B. Lewis lsidra Person Sonia Pearson COMMUNITY PERSONNEL James Houston, 372-2585 The deadline for the next issue .is Sunday, March 17, 1974 Editor Resigns Dig: Thomas Watts is resigning as editor of Perspective. Far from leaving angry, bruthas anq sistus, I am resigning for very real reasons both personal and political. The personal reasons I will only gloss over. As editor, I was finding \that I was not always being as sensitive to my closest friends as I know I should. I found that I was often too preoccupied to act towards them properly. My political reasons ax:e far less transient, however. I have come to the conclusion that my resignation will be far more beneficial to the paper than my continuation in the position. It was all very well for one person to handle arid know about most of the workings of the paper last year when we were just learning. Now, however, the work load is such that a more specific division of labor is imperative if Perspective is to attain the stature for which it has the capacity. Since I will not be around, the division of labor will be attained. I cannot turn away from my committment to the struggles of Black peoples in this world, nor can I turn away from my committment to this newspaper. My intention is to continue working with the newspaper, but only in a specific area. What I desire is to devote my time and energies to communicating with other Black newspapers, Black alumni of Union and the people in the community. This is an undertaking I consider more important than having the title of \Editor.\ In addition, this is an area Perspective has to pursue in order to become im\portant to the Schenectady community. Because the newspaper was not as comprehensive as it must be, I became infected with the bourgeoise disease of \commandism.\ My actions, as editor, were not actions whjch would benefit the newspaper, but uc::~ions that uplifted my ego. My position became more important than the work I was doing. These, alone, are adequate reasons for a true revolutionist to make a radical personal change. In any event, I am resigning. I hope that no Black person, claiming \I'm too busy,\ \'lill say that they cannot help. Remember, those really interested in the struggles of Black in amerika do not ask \What can I do?\ but always \What else can I do?\ Black F'rom Precedirtg Pag~ programed like the other players? You can't tell me that the brothers can't play either. The Majority of the brothers are on the BS\A team. Since the team was put together I hree years ago and including this year, they have been undefeated in basketball. They are number I in the school. The brothers want to prove to the coaches and to those who have never seen them play that they are good enough to Play on Union's team. Why have the Varsity refused to give us a ves or no answer when we asked io play against them in a game? Are they afraid of us? From what I can see, the coach is afraid of the brothers. He is afraid that his \star\ players will lose their fame and glory. I will never acknowledge Union's basketball team as number\ I\ until they can . give the BSA a good run for their money or even beat them and there are many that feel the same as I do. I will. also never acknowledge Union's basketball team until they give the brothers a fair shake as to the other sports. As one Union College student r=::::-, t~ i EXPERIENCE II\ ~~jjj ~!f FREE, FREE FREE ~~ Sports shouted out at a game when one of lJ nion's \star\ players was t:alled for a foul that he wrnmitted against a black player ·of the visiting school, \Hey ref, helping the blacks is orie thing, hut this is ridiculous!\ I say, Hey t:oach. the way you are treating the brothers is ridiculous!! Vanita tetter frOm. Barbados Dear Tom, I am extremely s·o-rry not to have written yo-u sooner. received your letter .less than a \'.cek after it was posted, but there were certain development$ in Grenada (an island in the West Jndies) that made it hard for me to think of writing anyone. There is an opposition political group in Grenada ca.Jled the New Jewel Movement, a Marxist- oriented group. which has been seeking the ove.rthrow of the Gairy (the Prime Minister) r·egime. Now I support the group, 'hut the problem has been, with my mot heF as Governor (appointed by the Queen of ·England to serve as the queen's r:epresentative to the island), l ha:ve had to keep quiet about my political views. Since my mgthds appointment depends on the government, the Premier C!!.n make life very uncomforta:ble for her, even thpugh he cannot actually dism-iss her. In ai:ly case, the situation taok a turn for the worse in December with a high. incidence of police hrutality which culminated in a sa.vage attack on the leader of the Jewel Movement on Dec. 18th in Grenville, the island's second largest town. Since then, a strange hedfellows situation has arisen with people of all ideologies united in one aim to get rid ·Of Ga iry. They have been organizing daily demonstration in St. George:s. the capital, against the government. The demonstrations ha·ve heen moving from st·rertgth to strength as 1.7eg~rds the num,her of demonstrators. A num·ber of them called for my mothe.r to resign. As Governor, she a~ked for expressions of support from all political bodies in the State. When they denied her this support, she resigned her office. Where I have be.en catching my arse is that, while I .support the . people in their efforts to over\ throw Gairy, l find it very hard to accept the aHacks of the poli- ticians on· my mother ~ even· though I know' the attacks ate nminly to 'embarrass the present goveFnment. The fuel crisis has everybody uptight down here. llickiily, Trinidad is an oil producer and exporter. The islands are in the process of forming an economic \Common Market,\ so Trinidad has given preferen..tial treatment to us. Food is very tight also, ~:specially in Barbados which, alt'hough an agriculturally based nation, is not much' given to production of.food crops, I will be organizing two slibs.criptions to newspapers frotn dt)Wn here as so<:m as possible. Walk on the right side. Zion, Roland Bynoe * * * *, :Editors Note: The letter from· Roland (see, \Letters\) came th.ree weeks hcfore February 7, when Oren- ada received its independence from Brit,ish imperialism. Grenada is, then, our .newest predominantly Black nation. It is obvious from the Iettet and, talks with o~her West Indians, that Grenada has already laid the foundations for ~upport of, and participation in, the community of the West .Indies, endthe rest of the Third World. t\s the Jette~ indicates, however, independence from British domin- ation is not all the peoplf! of (irenada's desire. Th!;!y want, also, t-o be free froin the still British- dominated . Eric Gairey, who remained as Premier after independence. Ga\ir:efs orientation {white) is sugge~ted by the letter. The clinching evidence, however, is found in h\is words after indepen- dence, as reported in the Feb~uary 23 issue of The Afro- American.'' He said (referring to the· activities of the New Jewel Movement, primarily, but generally to the \strange bedfellows\ coalition Which .sprang up opposing his regime): \Some people !lave behaved like naughty children and need to IJe spanked, but we have no blacklist.\ Sounds moFe like the babblings of most Europeans concerning non-whites, rather than the words of a Black chief- of~state. · Atlanta Compromise If you are wondering why Roland used \Zion\ as a closing· s~1lutation, just remember your g. ra:ndmother's \ol' time religion.\ Zion is heaven - the place where ~·ou can find peace and freedom, \\'hen you die. In the letter's context, \Zion\ is an assertion of a committment to a liberation struggle to bring about . some peace and freedom while we are alive. The people of Grenada are a lot closer to tllat goal than are Black people in amerika. ••today in black commumttes <lcross the nation, one finds too little agreement on too many important issues. there is one glaring r-eality which every segment of .the community agrees the schools in our communities ;fre failing our children!\ in tile . typical hit and miss fashion which is so genuinely amerikan, solutions are being sought. the first swing was at integration. sending black kids to white schools in quest of some amerikan scheme, OOps, dream. \\ell anyway, as reality would have it. they missed and quality ~ducation went right on by. strike I! the next swing was at busing. sending black kids to white schools and white kids to black schools, but that cost money, and you've been black long enough to know the man ain't going to get off no bread. strike 2! next time a round he went to court... to say the supreme court has reversed itself would be an under~ statement. the supreme court plain outdid itself. before whitey ~:ould turn his head, the stennis amendment was strike 3! now it \\<IS his turn to cry \foul play,\ and the question of quality education and civil rights has been high on the supreme court list ever since. in the midst of all this confusion, black folks in atlanta seem to ·have found the answer. in the words of a iocalleader, \what \\ c needed was to get more soul into the top positions. people who understand something about the hlack life style.\ to meet this need they have enacted a \school compromise plan.\ according to this plan, busing will be limited to 3.000 of the city's 95,000 students. the school superintendent must be hlack, and 9 of the 17 school administr:ative job·s are guaranteed the black community. as if to· say \take the bus and ·leave the driving to us,\ blacks in atlanta have begun to control the ~·®cation system. a significa.nt · step in these days and times. what time is it brothers and sister&'? HIGHT ON! ~ours iri the struggle. ••gemini\ from A11 Albany State l,ublicatioll On Stage \'Greg Freelon-On stage, Off Stage\ :\1any young Blacks have talent i\·hich is expressed in one form or another. One m<lnner which it may be accomplished is on the stage. A few months ago, ••No Place to Re Somebody,\ was performed in \ott Memorial by members of the Montebank Players and the Black Student Alliance. The play was skillfully and successfully directed by Greg Freelon, who Faduated from Union Collegr;: in 1971 as a Political Science major. (ircg became interested in the stage while at Union and even hcforc. Since his graduation, Greg hcelon has been involved in producing and directing plays on ~tage as well as with television. (i reg believes that, \'the Black thc:ttcr is oile of the best assets t'hi1t talented blacks have today. \ot only on stage, but also hchind the scenes. Many oppottu11ities are av.ailable for t.hosc blacks who are se,riously inte.tcstcd, in this type of career.\ lie also says that although it is hard work, the rewards from this f..ind of work are quite satisfying. \\'hen asked about his future plans. Greg began speaking very t:tmfidently. He is riow working in 1'11c WG Y huildi11g on Halltown Road here in Schenectady. In the · process of producing a television slww. he's very busy ,but quite .. :xdted. It is must for eVery.oile to ~~c. so be looking out for it. 1-.inally, Greg believes that the Black students here on campus that arc interested in acting :-.hould pursue tllis career. but makir'lg sure one has something dsc to fall on to. ..It's il tough business, · and there is no 1[l,,3.;::;:;:;:;;~:~;;;;:;:?,;:;:;~::::::::~:::::::::::::::::::::?.::;:;:;~:;~:;~:;:;:~;l!;:;::::l:::::i:~ll~ With nose to the Grindstone, Jsby atld Leonarq,g_et down in the new Black li,brar'y. <\ontinued on Page D ' ' \ '

t s s t j f ' ' tr i i. :'I I I 1. f'ERSPECTIVE, Thursday! March 7, 1974 .Page C Afrikan COuncil Is It Really Impossible? Several years ago a group of young Black men and women took a{ivantage of an opportunity to take classes in Newark, New Jersey on how to educate Black childr.en to their true selves and the original id~nt-ity - anofher Africa. Upon completing the fiive week-end course, they returned to Albany to .start an African Free SchooL Today, the African Free Sc.heol does not exist ~ but what does is a macrocosm of those men and women who rtow call themselves mem.bers of the Afri'kan Council. They are respon~ihle for many cultural series presented in the Td-City area, and more recently, for the Fel>ruary 16th speaking engagement . of hnamu Amiri Ba,raka. Somewhere along the road of my dreams, l met a thought. It seemed big, and beautiful. Jts contents were of dreams and future happiness. His name is Educiltion: hostile. I walked into one of _Education's offices and sat down. An Appointed-One handed me a p;tper that both I and Education had worked very hard on. I was so happy to see a good mark, and I was excited to see 'him so I On the final n.ight of celebration for Black History Week, the Afrikan Council presented a two...;hour film and Brother Bataka as the highlight speaker. The film, \State , of Seige,\ is about the revolutionary struggle being waged in South America, and· countries like her threughout the world. Jt dealt mainly with the employment .of Mr. Micheal Phillip Santare by the A.J. D. to supposedly help unsnare traffic jams in a small South American city. After being kidnapped, (and prior to his assassination); it was discovered that Mr. Santare was teally hired by the government to teach the \protective forces\ how to torture <md kill subver!>ive elements. The guvernment had made. an agreement with the C.I.A. (remember them?) to protect American investments in return for help from the more advanced American police forces. The story ends with the government waging all-out war on the \subversives\ and attempting to d,estroy their movement: Santare is killed; and the last scene is of another A.I. D. agent coming to take his place. Haraka's speech, which came immediately after the movie, dealt \\ith the goals of the Afrikan Council. The two predominant goals of their organization at this point are to develop a Black polrtical system througheut the United States so that there might he one united voice to speak for the Black American; another is to instill a sense of Pan-Africanism in the brothers and sisters here and across the globe. The accomplishment of the first is hopefully to be obtained by making Black voters aware that it is not necessary to be ,either After Education and I rapped for. a while, I decided to apply to Union. We both thought, that- Union was the best place Where Educa,tion and :1 could know each other and, maybe, share ideas together. could tell him the good news. Then it happened. The truth was revealed. The Appointed-One raised his voice in a loud roar and looked at me with death in his eyes. ••1 do not beiieve you wrete this ,paper~ I believe you are not capa@Je of such good work. There can he just 'one explanation, Education alone wrote this paper. You could not have done this in a joint effort. Because if it was so, thm your ideas would have certainly brought this paper to the BTother lmamu Baraka, who spoke recently at the Arbor Hill Community Center in Albany. Democratic or Republican, but to unify in order that the needs of the masses are taken care of. Pan-Africanisrn is the need for all brothers and sisters across the globe for uniting to confront the forces that oppress African people wherever they may be. The ideology is shared :by many Black n&tionalists' organizations who ultimately hope it will be the ideology of all Sun People. Yours in the Struggle, Donnel E. Underwood When I finally came to Union as a student, I, was very excited to meet this man. He was everywhere. His books were lascinating to me, the people who talked about his ideas and concepts (professors) were to me, brilliant men who Education had appointed to carry on his work. I was very happy. Then a strange change began te happen to Education. 1-[e seemed less friendly and his ideas seemed to be of another type. People told me it was called awareness. ,I hegan to notice that, for some reason, some people didn't want me around. And some of these same people, were the appointed niessengers 'of Education. The key Word was capability. They did not believe that Education and I were capable of maintaining our relationship. Finally, orte day it all came out. The world (Union College Campus) was in a fervor. There was something in -the air which was hard to distinguish, but Education and I knew it was . least possible mark. I'll tell you again as l know many others _ must have told you by now, there is no way you can help Education. Let Education go free, let him go to Long Land, whete the Fewish communities are. They can do a lot more for him, than you can.\ I lo()ked at him with tears in my eyes, and I silently whispered, \No I can't let him go. I love Education and he's the only one I trust. Maybe it is selfish, but he is my only hope in life.,. I turned away, and I met Education between the Hope artd Happiness building. I saw in his eyes his tenderness and l told him the whole story. I cried in his arms a11d he comforted me almost .as if I was his child. When I J.C.A.'s Coach Perry Ashley ll nion 's freshman b&sketball team suffered a 61-66 loss on February 8 of this season against the Junior College of Albany. This loss was somewhat noteworthy because the team was all Black, as was the coach. The win for .J.C.A. helps the team's chances for attending the New England Little Athletic Association tournament. At the time of this interview, the team only needed a win against Albany Business College to receive an Invitation to the tourney. J .C.A.'s record was 6 wins, 6 losses, Coach Perry Ashley is a native of Troy. New York. He is the first, as far as he knows, Black coach in this area, but does not consider it too important. In 1966. he· graduated from Troy II igh School and went on to J.C.A., where he earned his A.A. in Business Administration. From .I.C.A., he went to Xavier College and graduated in 1970. He came hack to Troy H.S. as a counselor and stayed for three years, while earning his M.S. ·in Guidance and Counseling at SUNY of Albany. He is. now, an HEOP Counselor, the Athletic Director and head hasketball coach at J.C.A. Coach Ashley said that the win against Union co ula be attributed to better defense. Poor defense caused the team to get off to a slow start with four straight losses Crazy? \I saw my doctor and said that I ·knew I was not \crazy and that I did not belong in a hospital. I wanted to be with friends away from all pressures and to think about myself all(l try fo get some answers and also to get some questions. The doctor responded by I )increasing the medication so that I was totally · unable to think any more and 2) threatening to send me to state hospital if I insisted on learning 3) no friends were allowed to vist, and my mother was out of town, Ml that no one came for two \\eCks. I decided to tell the doctor that I was really cra7y and that I \\anted to stay in the hospital. I did this so he would allow friends to Visit and lower the medication. lie did all of this after three days. I he hospital was an open ward. and a week after he lowered the medication and allowed friends to \ isit, I ran away. . * * * * * If I could I would go into every mental hospital and tell the people that they are not cra7.y, that they are led to believe that myth. I would say ~hat they have a right to be happy, that they can he happy.\ Signed: A dear friend of Preston Wilcox ( Afram Associates Action Library llumanizer No. 58) including one ag&inst Siena. Since they were in early foul trouble .against Union, they experimented and found that the tone p:tess worked best. The coach said his team is better conditioned and that they didn't tire d Ufi ng the end-game: /\bout his win, he said his team played against a \good team -- they could have given up.\ He told Union's freshman coach: \Your k.ids came back, but they got nervous.\ ( ·(Jach Ashley was tenured as a counselor at Troy High, but partly attributed his leaving to his , efforts to change the \situation\ at the racially tense school. At I roy, he counseled freshman Bill , Collins who, according to Black sources. is not getting enough light on Union's freshman haskctball team. finally looked into his datk eyes, he said, \Baby I'll never leave. Because no matter what-you'll make it through this world. We'll make it 1ogether. There are so many dreams we can put together. Don',t give up hope now and throw away your happiness in the future. But now I realize that not only are we together, but we will fight this world together and prove to all the Appointed- Ones that we can master this world-together!,. I asked him, .. is it impossible?\ And he whispered in my brain- ·•nothing is impossible.\ Sada:ma N. Homs Town News The Black Students' Alliance of· Union College presents \THE BLACK EXPERIENCE II,\ An Experience in Black Creativity, March 8 <J:OO p.m. in Memorial Chapel, Admission Free. .., 1\ \GIG\ Afterward in the Gym. Music by \Gems of the Future,\ A<lmission $1.()0 .. LOPSA Activities Committee of S.U.N.Y. at Albany presents \An Ebony Affair Weekend,\ Featuring: \'Kooi and the Gang,\ plus .. The Manhattans,\ Sponsored by: Pee Wee Harris; Ticket-stub dance afterwards, Admission: $5:00 w/tax card. $6.00 with~ut. Location: Gym; Time: March 15. Also, \EIJony Affair.\ March 16 -- 9:00 p.m. - 3:00 a.m. &t Campus Center Ballroom. Admission: $4.00 single -- 6.50 coUple w Ita x card. $4.50 single -- 7.00 couple Vlithout tax card, Live hand, Fashion Show, (Evening Attire only!) TilE. BLACK STUDENTS' AI.LIANCE OF UNION COLLEGE PRESENTS OnMarch8 A Performing Arts Festival_ \The Black Experieqce II\ wal!!t&r. '!

I . ' : i PageD PERSPECTIVE, \Thursday March 7, 1974 Squeezing the Teamsters Out Promise Poem Boycotts are pre,sentl.y considered to be rather jive. If ypu g~ve ample attention to their implementationin .the struggle to achieve some workers tights, you would find substantial reason for an optimistic coloration of their worth. Three years ago a massive consumer boycott dragged grape 'growers kicking and screaming into the folds of the just, even though it did take the concerted efforts of the grape consuming populace. Now., when the United Farmer Worker's hard-won- contracts are up for renewal, along come the Jackal-Teamster ;honchos, who without a word to the workers, sign a ready-made contract with the growers. Thi: Teamster contract reinstitutes the notorious· Labor-Contractor hiring system, reduces the worker's already minimal pay, imposes no restrictions on the use of man-killing pesticides, and 'leaves the workers without any effective medical benefits. There ate other cruel inadequacies in the Teamsters' contract, but the , above should prove enough to make the \concerned\ consumer lc>se his taste for grapes. Yes, the farm workers are resisting: seeking r-edress via the courts and by petitioning the growers for secret-ballot elections. Unfortunately, the wheels of justice do not move as fast as nature grows grapes. As a result, the Teamsters are now importing scab-labor (many of whom arrive not knowing that they are strike- breakers, and, therefore, committing an Hregality, and who are coerced into continuation of work by the Teamsters' inelegant persuasions!). The bitter fruit of this labor is now arriving at stores in our neighborhood. If these grapes sell, the next bunch of growers with U FW contracts to renew (in July) will follow the lead of their Coachella peers and invite the Teamsters to \organize\ tile fields on their terms i.e., a I<YWer hourly wage; no restriction on the use of condemned sprays;, reinstitution of the slave~labor contractor system; a medical plan that neatly excludes seasonal workers! Unsuprisingly, those great humanitarians of the Teamsters' Western Conference aren't squeamish about growers using a derivative of nerve gas. Well, one could ask himself why ~hould they be - these well-paid teamster \negotiators\ will never have to work in those deadly fields! Is there any way out_ of the squeeze play the Teamsters and growers have executed? To strike will cause some workers to go hungry, and for many workers it will mean going to jail (and all that goes with it). In the words of a farm worker, striking Will cause some hardships, \But strike we will. Strike we must, even knowing this will not preVent the harvest. We strike to reinforce our only real hope, you, the buyer of table grapes.\ · We are caliing. you, you who are our last line of defense. You are the one critical element the Teamsters cannot control. If you are sickened by 'this injust attempt to return Farmer workers to the status of cattle, then the workers' cause is not yet lost. Remember, most grape workers are Mexican- Americans: Third World People. Greg Freelon From Page B guarantee that a person can make it, no matter how much talent one has. So its always safe to have another goal in mind.\ (ircg Freelon would like to tlirect another Black play soon, here on campus. We hope to see him soon, and we wish him luck in the future -Of his career and dreams. Sadama N. Horns. The growers understand sales, so we are asking, once more, with feeling: All people of goodwill please support the farm workers in their non-violent resistance to the Neanderthallic conditions imposed on them by the Grower- Teamster consortium, by I) Boycott table grapes, start-ing now! 2) Contribute money to help the workers who now will miss If' the few months of work which comprises their annual irtcome. The money will be .used for basics: food, clothing, medicine. Their need is staggering, and 3) Continue to boycott Iceberg lettuce and Safew.ay stores. ZION! Final Say \Whites who are sincere should organize among themselves and figure out some strategy t@ break down prejudice that exists in white communities. This is where they can function more intelligently and more effectively.\ \You get your freedom by letting the enemy know that you'll do any thing to get your freedom. Then you'll get it. It's the only way you'll get it.\ \I'll do my fighting right here at home, where the evening looks me in the eyes every day of my life. I'm not talking against the flag, I'm talking about it!\ \There's only one way to be independent. There is only one way to be free. It's not something someone gives to you. It's something you take. Nobody can give you independence. Nobody can give you freedom.\ Brother Malcolm was shot to death February 21, 1965. Not too many so-called knee-grows, or so- called Black people remembered. Some of the hip people are ~aying: \Work within the system,\ or \When I finish school and get <P 0 000 ·~ - In the cleansing tide of revo-LU-shun we will wash away the last taint of the oppressor's hate so that all.those different-colored brut hers & sisters and even those so-called Knee-grows wilt cast Black Shadows. . We will sing and dance at last for real and with the white mist removed from our eyes we will be able to com-MUN-icate in Black/ talk with real meanings the way it's s'posed to be. We will melt down our guns and build us some mounuments and cities of Black/love Black/ness love! Black/ human/ ness.' And those others will sit back (with they mouth open) and say: Damn! Them some baaaaaaaaad people. my shit together ... \ They don't realize that working within the syst_em helps you forget about brothers like Malcolm X and 17- year-old Bobby Hutton (I know· you didn't forget little Bobby) died in the cause of Black liberation. Sly Stone said about \within the system:\ \Dying young is hard to take, selling out is harder.\ Selling out is hard to take. And if you wait too long to T. Watts get your shit together, you gonna wake up to find yourself \a successful Black (fill in),\ but you will be spiritually dead. You will be as dead as Sammy Davis Jr. who is so decomposed and rotted that he gladly wears his hair conked, now, Do not be afraid of the whi-te boy .. As brother Chairman Mao says. \American imperialists are paper tigers.\ · THE Revol ut1on WILL NOT . BE TELEVISED \ \' .<i

\a Jr. i-te \ ' h I + ii llo are ... . ,. CONCORDIENSIS, Thursd4y, March 7, 1974 Page 9 ----~--~----------------------------------~-- \Clique\ the Photographic Society's Winter Exhibition, will be held in the.. New Gallery in the Arts Building during the week of March 10-16, from 2 to 5 p.m. The exhibition is free and all memb.ers of the college community are invited to attend. ''Clique'' Opens Sunday At New Gallery Contributing student photographers to the exhibit are: Greg Cohen, Paul Downkontt, Priscilla Francis, .Jeff Levine, Arthur Miller, Jessica Sobie,ch, Leslie Steineker, and David Strom. ., . ) \· Up corning events include a contest during the beginning-of May ·and several guest lecturers from the Schenectady community. 1. 2. 3. 4. 5. 6. 7. 8. 9 . Curtis Enterprises and New Era Records present /pring Get Away OVER $10,000 IN PRIZES TO BE AWARDED! ENTER NOW! YOU COULD WIN THE VACA'f.ION OF YOUR LIFETIME! Grand Prize five, sunfilled days - four fantastic nights at the posh \Pier 66 Motel\ on the ocean at FT. LAUDERDALE, FLORIDA! First-Class round trip transportation from winner's locatron to FT. LAUDERDALE! Honda rental bike during the duration of your stay! Dinner for tWO ·at the ifabulous..-'Pink Pussy Cat\! Dinner. for two at the \Windjammer\ Dinner for two at ''Pier 66'' -.the worfd's most fantastic suppP.r club overlooking the beautiful blue ATLANTIC! $100.00 credit account in your name at \She\ - the swingingest singles spot in Florida! Top name entertainment seven days a week! $!i0~00 credit account in your name at \The Button\ - Lauderdale's leading after'hours club! $100.00 cash - to spend as you please! \ · 10 Each Second Prizes 1. Three days, two nights at Holiday Inn, on the ocean, at FT. LAUDERDALE, FLORIDA. 2. Roun!f trip transportation (from winner's location). 3. Oinn!lr for two Cit \The Windjammer.\ · 4. $2$.()0 credit account in your name at \She.\ . . . t.... ~- ' ..• . . ., • ~ oloo. • • 5. $25.QO cash - to spend as you please. 1,000 Third Prizes --~~--- ---=-..e. - ~ - . - . ·~- . , 1. Any one stereo LP or 8 track tape of your choice listed in t~e current New ~ra Records Catalog . RULES AND REGULATIONS 1. Contest open only to bonaf•!le students of an accredited college or umv.erslty. 2. Winners Will be selected by the W A. Wilhoit Corporation. an independent judging orgaruzauon. Winners will be selected at random and the dec1sion of the judges will be lena I. A .fist of all winners will be available upon written request to New Era Records. 3 To reg1ster. pnnt informat1on m spaces provided on coupon.__. 4. Enclose $1.00 for processing and handling. Remilby check or postal money order only ,PAYABLE TO: \Nt;W ERA RECOROS·CEI.\ 5. Mail)lour registration to· NEW ERA RECORDS SUITE 109 175 WEST WIEUCA ROAD, N.E, ATI,.ANTA, GEORGIA 30342 6 E~tnes must be postmarked NOT LATER THAN March 8th. l974. • ••n••• •• •••• ••••••• •••• •• a. Ilea • 111 ••••• •• ••a••oa •• •• •••s•••\• t!l•••• •••• • • • I CURTIS ENTERPRISES - NEW ERA RECORDS : \I c11rtify that I am a student at------:------'-- • (name of school) • • • : Name~----~--------------~--­ • • - . • : Address---~-------------------- • • • : • City ___________ State -----Zip~--- • • • • • : Phone _________ _ • ' . ':.: .. I . . . ~ it' ~ ..

Page 10 CONCORDIENSIS, Thursda,y, March 7, 1974 Trackmen Nipped at Cortland by ALISON SLOAT Thoughout the day total scores were close. Cortland led, then Rochester led, then Union led. Then a long jumper named Ly.nch and a distance runner named Suarez, both from Oswego, combined for 26 of their teams 27 points and that botched up every- thing! Coaches started working their pencils trying to figure out when and where they coutd pick up how many points. \If we can win this ... \ \If we just beat ... ., \Just as long as they don't. .. \ Finally, total!) found U of Rochester victorious with 29 points. Oswego second with 27 ;points, Union Y2 .point further hack in thir place, and a bright a-nd eager Binghamton State team .in fourth with 18 points. happy hccause they had never before s core d i n ·t he Co rt Ia nd Invitational. Excitement never stopping,. the meet disclosed sevefal upsets in numerous events. Probably the happiest moment ror the Dutchmen came when senior co-c&ptain Mark Mindel sped past Fred Suarez, Os., just prior to the gun lap of the 1000 yd. run. Minner hummed to maintain his lead and win the event in 2:17.8, bettering Suarez by :01.6 seconds. 'R oehester':; Bill \Crow\ Shaw finished thir-d with 2::;!0,2. Suarez had come 'back after a win in the mile at 4: 17. L Later he again pounded the track to a 9:22.6 second in the two mile behind Pallack of St Lawrence. Pollack's 9:16.8 win ·established a new meet record. Ducks Do It by BUBBLES LATOURRE {rom which Sigma Chi never The Phi Delta Theta Ducks recovered. The Ducks tightened ·defeated defending champion up on defense and won the game Sigma Chi in three games 15-5. Monday night to win the I he game ball goes to Rich · fraternity volleyba,IJ champion- Earl of the Ducks. Rich's ship. The Ducks made it to the quickness at the net saved many a finals by defeating T D Chi.. Sig point. Other outstanding Duck Phi. Chi Psi and Fiji, with players were Pearl, Duffy, Henry, defaults from Flappers and D U. Phipps and the Hammer, with~ Sigma Chi made it to the finals by Beantown doing the job as coach. defeating D Chi and A D, with Poor play was noted in Duck forfeits from Psi U. K A and D George Huttig, who lost many a Phi. point by stepping his big webbed In the ((rst game Sigma Chi feet under the net. took off to a· 5-0 lead over the ., hermodynamics claimed Ducks. but the Ducks came back Sigma Ch,i's two best men for the strong in the end, pulling from a. night of the tournament, but John 12-7 margin to win the game 16- laylor. Timmy Moran and Jeff 14. The second game was a mirror White played well for the Sigs. image of the first, with Sigma Chi Art Cigar called the net as well recovering from an early five as he could through his private point deficit to win 15-13. smoke screen. Both teams are I he third game began with a e.ag:rly awaiting a l'ematch in the .:ight point streak by the Ducks Spnng tournament. .. ------ .... - . . - .............. ~-----:-..~~~:.,- ... ~-~~4 .......... -.-..,...Tg,g_\,CW .... .,...,.,.,.,,.,.,.,. UNION COLLEGE BASKETBALL STATISTICS- 21 games WON: 18 LOST: J* Player G FGA FG % FT A FT %Reb. A vg. Asst. Pts. A vg. Gugliotta.Charlie21 255 137 53.7 125 89 71.2 182(8.7) 29 36317.3 Jr., Huntington Sta., N.Y. Kelly, Steve 21 207 101 49.1 44 30 68.2 163(7.8) 23 232 I 1.0 So .. Pt. Washington. N.Y. Carmody, Bill 21 194 89 45.9 37 32 86.5 50(2.4) ;105 210 I 0.0 Jr .. Spring Lake. N.J. Denio. John 21 183 91 49.7 13 6 46.2 42(2.0) 59 188 9.0 So., Melrose. N.Y. Abba, Chuck 20 175 73 41.7 38 26 68.4 97(4.9) 52 172 8.6 Sr .. Schenectady, N.Y. Combs. Tom 21 106 55 51.9 15 1 I 73.3 70(3.3) 25 121 5.8 Sr .. Penfield, N.Y. Raymond,Jon II 45 19 42.2 18 8 44.4 31(2.8) 5 46 4.2 So .. Milford, N.H. Crawford, Kevin 15 19 12 63.2 18 I5 83.3 13(0.7) 7 39 2.6 Jr., Cranston, R.I. Dillon. Luke 18 50 18 36.0 14 9 64.3 7(0.4) 27 45 2.5 Sr .. Worcester, Mass. Marcinowski, Rayl3 25 9 36.0 18 II 61.1 30(2.3) 2CJ 2.2 So .. Easthampton, Mass. Viniar,Dave 13 22 12 54.6 5 2 40.0 14(1.1) 7 26 2.0 So .. Bronx, N.Y. Henson. Bill 16 26 II 42.3 7 4 57.1 15(0.9) II 26 1.6 So .. W. Hempstead. N.Y. Glazer. Mark 13 13 4 30.8 8 5 62.5 4(0.3) 7 13 !:0 So .. Jersey City, N.J. Union · 21 1326 631 47.8 3()0 248 68.9 835(39~8) 3581510 71.9 Opponents 21 1288 522 40.5 305 188 61.6 849(40.4) 1991232 58.7 *Siena used ineligible play~r. UESULTS Union Opponents 70 Middlebury 58 66 Drew 58 59 Pace 46 79 RPI 55 *68 Siena 82 88 Wesleyan 71 63 Williams 52 89 WPI 69 70 Hobart 51 59 Rochester 68 t=t> FLASH!~ R ~. I. . l!> c.ct'\ uiGr -ro U~o~\oN- 1\1\ftfN\T ~ b,llsett I!'Nt> tcr ~ULL.~ g FC:w 70 Hamilton 48 56 Hartwick 51 75 Kings Point 51 77 Trinity 66 66 Hamilton 56 81 Coast Guard 64 71 Utica 53 95 Tufts 71 Binghamton ... 71 52 51 RPI 54 86 Clark 56 Levrs Da•e's Mens Shep 453 States~. (downtown Schenectady) 1\·IIULHCJ upset came in the 600 yard run as Shuford of Hinghamton won with a I: 15.0 cloc'king. Shuford had rwt even oeen seeded into the fastest heat. The 60 yd. dash w&s the scene of disappointment for the Garnet spikers. In the final, Milt Herring crossed the line in 6.3 as did Stephens of UB. Although the decision was contested, Stephens was awarded the win. in I be second letdown for· the Union squad came when high jumper Cal Anderson was disqualified at 6'. With the absence of Dave Plumer, ·.the Garnet .failed to score m the event. .I unior Peter Walrath, a state champion in his freshman year, finally got his steps down and leaped 21'8·X\ for second in the long jump behind Lynch's 22' win. Now a Binghamton State hoy. former Dutchman Daryl lomsa jumped 21'51;2\ for a third in the event. ·swim Meet over the weekend as he took 11th in the 100-yd backstroke. Two relay teams {400 Medley and 800 yd) took 12th places. On the teams were Tom Burbank, Mitch Weisburgh, Bill West, Rich Norman, Dave Bernat, and Richardson. photo credit Dave Hardman Lacrosse Is Sprung Bill Mowrey got the best of his painful ha.rid and chucked his season's best, 48'9y2\ to beat his evil adversary Trunzo of Colgate. However. 48'91;2'' was not enough to top the 49' winning put of Lowell of RPI. SUNY Binghamton put together an impressive mile relay team to buzz to a 3:29.3 win and establish themselves as a threat in the coming state meet. Continued on Page It by FRANCESCO ISGRO Spring weather has finally hit the Capita,) District area, and the t Inion C allege Lacrosse team has taken the opportunity to begin training for the upcoming 12\ game season. The Garnet Laxmen v..ill try to improve last year's 5-7 record.\ and if no key injuries occur. and if the . squad can achieve a certain degree of cohesiveness. there will be no doubt that they will better their previous mark. Two of the ·top returning letter- ·~*1i~~!~f~~~l~i~f:;~ili§m:[:m~~;~~:~~~=~:l:i:~i:i§.:~l~:1:~~§.:~:~:i:ili:r:~m~:i:1~=~;;:~mm§§!*m;milil~;ill;l~;~i;~i~4~ili1ilil~;;r:~m;;~~;~~;~~*1i~ilil~ill1;~®1 SPRING COLl<~r.. )t l<'l!.RINGS - 1974 . THE DEPARTMENT OF P.E. ANNOUNCES THE FOLLOWING COURSE OFFERINGS FOR THE SPRING TERM. SIGN UP AT SPRING REGISTRATION COURSE LOCATION DAY TIME INSTRUCTOR Tennis Courts Mon.-Wed. 10:30 & 11:30 Hinckley , Tues.-Thurs. I 0:30 & II :30 Alden Archery Gym Office Mon.-Wed. ' IJO Hinckley Weight Training Gym Mon.-Wed. 1:30 Michelsen General Conditioning Tues.-Thurs. I :30 Michelsen Lacr-osse(girls) Gym Floor M.-W.-F .. 3:30-4:30 Hinckley Paddle ball Cou.rt Tues.-Thurs. 10:30-11:30 Everling Slimnastics Wrestling Rm M.W.Th. · 12:30-1:30 Weick Golf Fieldhouse Tues.-Thurs. I :30 Scanlon Student Trainer Course (See John Alden, Training Room, Gym) Swim-Begin Pool Tues.-Fri. 1:30-2:15 Magee -Intermediate Pool Mon.-Thurs. ~:45-3:30 Magee LSI Pool Mon.-Thurs. I :30-2;45 Magee Field Hockey Gym Floor Tues.-Thurs. 3:30-4:30 Hinckley ENGINEERS men are Robert Grossman and AI Ritchie. A Junior from North Bellmore, New York, Grossman will be the key attack man of the squad. Last year he led his team v..ith the highest number of assists. 36. and also tallied 13 times. Ritchie is a sophomore from Hamden. Connecticut. As a goalie. he was Qne of the stars of the squad as he enchanted the spectators with countless incredible sa~es. In 12 games he stopped the ball from going into the net 154 times, an average of 12.X saves per game. Other top returnees are Dennis DeMuth, Bob Grabo and Jerry Dwyer, the ~ophomore trio of Don Ward, Mark Wlash and Jim Thompson and also Bruce .David, Chris :'\adherney and Mike Garone. Coach Allison will also be using some top freshmen at the \arsity level. John Thompson and .?('hr:is Osborn will both be playing d. efensive positioq, while J ol~n I· klund and .John 'fhompson will he on the attack . .lim Felix and sophomore Charlie Howe will play in the midfield. It is too early to get a clear picture of exactly who will be playing in the starting team, but one thing is already clear, Coach Allison has in his squad some H:ry talented young players. Chemical ... Mechanical ••• ln~ustrial •.• Metallurgical •.• Ceramic ••• N L INDUSTRIES OFFERS NOT JUST A lOB ••• BUT A FUTURE. N L Industries is a diversifieGl, multi- natipnal manufacturer with sales in ex- ces$ of 1 billion dollars. Our product emphasis is in chemi- cals, metals, die castings; pigments, bearings, plastics, and nuclear an_d oil well materials and services ... de- signed, manufactured, and marketed Our openings are for results- oriented engineers interested in ad- vancement to managerial positions. If your interest is in production, design, sales, plant engineering, or research and development, N L Industries wants to discuss a job with a future with you. -by 29,000 employees in our more than 200 plants, offices, and laboratories throughout the world. let's·meet on campus N! to discuss the career op- 1P' portunities for you with · N L Industries. INDUSTRIES OUR CAMPUS INTERVIEW DATE~ MARCH 11 Maurice Grauhart & Sons THIS IS HERSHEL MAURICE. AND WALTER GRAUBART AT GRAUBART & SONS. SCHENECTADYS OLDEST FAMILY JEWELERS. WE VERY SELDOM AJbVERTISE OUR REPAIR DEPARTMENT-BECAUSE WE ARE KEPT BUSY MOST OF THE TIME. WE'D l.IKE TO MENTION THAT WE ,OfFER A COMPLETE REPAIR SERVICE ON WATCHES AND JEWELRY ITEMS. OUR WATCH REPAIRS ARE' DONE BY EFFICIENT. HIGHLY SKILL ED WATCHMAKERS. AND OUR WORK IS GUARANTEED TO BE SATISFACTORY. OUR REPAIR SHOP WITH OUR OWN JEWELERS AND DIAMOND SETTERS C'AN PERFORM MOST JEWELRY REPAIRS. REMEMBER GRAUBART & SONS FOR RELIABLE SERVICE. • . 166 JAY ST. SCHENECT AD\' . An Equal Opportunity Employer. Male/Female. DARI- TREET 'Student Discount' (with I.D.) 2049 VanVranken Mo~.-Fri~ 6-9,'Sat. 8·9 j77-4261

h n a is \ -· CONCORDIENSIS, Thursday, Mareh 7, I974 Page II The next session of the Student Faculty Bridge Club will be held on Wednesday, March 13, at 7:45 p.m. in the Hale House Upper Lounge. All bridge players on campus are welcome to attend. The results of the last tournament ~re: 1st: T. Hartman and D. Gordon; 2nd, Profs. Goodheart and Bacon; 3rd,. Millman and Mills. * ... \' \' * Students who have iQst 11nything around campus are urged to check with the lost and found department at the Security Office, where there are hnndreds of goodies just waiting to be claimed. * * * * * There will be a meetingfor those wishing to try c;~ut for the tennis team on Tuesd~y. March 12 in the Block U Room in the Gymnasium at 3:30 p.lJI. * * * \' * Seniors: Time to order graduation announcements. See Mrs. Marra in the Student Activities Office. \' * * * * Stephen Wood, a recent Union graduate, will be on campus on Tuesday, March 12 and Wednesday, March 13 for interviews of candidates interested in the School of Public and Urban Affairs of Ca-rnegie-Mellon. If nterested, Please contact Mrs. Miller in the Placement Office. \' * * * * A concert performance with orchestra of Mozart's Magic Flute will be presented as a benefit by the Capital Artists Resident Opera Company, sung in English at the Troy Music Hall on Saturday, March 23 at 8:00 p.m. Tickets may be reserved by _writing: OPERA, RCCA l892nd Ave., Troy, N.Y .. or byca:lling 273-0552. * * * * * Freshmen! Union College .offers a wide variety of activities in which students may participate. Many students are unaware of the opportunities at their disposal. At the Student Activities Office, Mrs. Lorraine Marr:a. and Dean of Students Mark Smith, are at the disposal of studel)ts for any questions about activities, problems, or just a good conversation and a cold beer. . * * * * * The' Women's Caucus will hold its next meeting Monday, March 11, in Strauss Lounge at 9 p.m. Plans for renovating offices arid consciousness-raising groups will be discussed. Consciousness- raising: is not therapy. The groups are simply a way for people to give and get support. Anyone, male, female, or other, is invited to attend. * * * * * The Women's Chorus will perform in Old Chapel on Friday, March 8 at 12:.30 p.m. Bring your lunch for a delightful experience. Nina Feltman will be the solo oerformer .. \' * * * * In celebration of Phi Sigma Kappa Fraternity's Founders Day, the Beta (Union College) and Gamma Tetarton (RPI) Chapters of P.S.K. are co-sponsoring a Band Party in the RPI Student Union on Friday, March 15, from 9 p.m. to 1 a.m. The entire Union College community is cordially invited. Admission is free,, beer is cheap! * * * * * Anyone tnterested in applying · to the Social Committee xs r~commended to work now. apply later. \' * * * * There is a photograph display at the New Gallery in the Arts Building. \fhe prints, discovered and developed by Chuck Booth, will be appearing throu,gh March 9, from 2-5 p.m. * * * * * _Don't miss \Jimmy\ at the Coffeehouse on Friday nite at 8:30 p.m., Admission is 50 cents. • * * * * Connecticut Attorney -General Robert Killian, 1 42, will be speaking before the Hartford Alumni Club on March I 8. Killian is a candidate for ·governor in the state of Connecticut, and faces a tough fight to unseat the incumbent. His son, Bob Jz:., is also a Union grad ('69), and is following his father's footsteps as an attorney in Hartford. • \' * \' * An organizational meeting fot the Freshman Record 1978 will be held on Tuesday, March 12 at 8 p;m. in the First Floor Lounge of North College. All interested students ate invited for Writing and photography. For additional information. call 370~6519. * * * * \' Hamilton and Kirkland Colleges are sponsoring the Northeastern Inter-Collegiate Folk Festival, May 2-5, 1974. Free workshops, crafts fair, and a square. dance in addition to the usual music competition will be held. Competition will be limited to the first 50 amateur college student performers. April 8 is the deadline for competition applications. For information concerning the festivals and applications. write: J;Jox 748, Hamilton College, Clinton, N.Y., 13323. • • \' * * As if to foreshadow excitement exposed on Saturday nite, fourth floor residents of South College were reportedly \mooning much to the distraction and dismay of people passing by. The reported incidents of mooning took place at the same location where last spring South College residents played German marching tunes during the Hebrew protest. One observer said of the streakers, \No big thing.\ • \' ... •· * The International Relations Club will hold a very important organizational meeting _on Wednesday, March 13, at 4:30 p.m. in SS 1 15. Future programs will he discussed. Everyone interested, ·and old and new members are urged to attend. * * • \' \' Wanted: Students who can sing or play for the Union College Coffeehouse Finals Freebie March 22, 1974.If interested call or see Doug Alcaide - 346-5405 or Rich Maisano - 346-921 L * * \'~-*- .. * IDOL ENTRIES Idol presents a chance for glory, recognition, and bucks t~ all the hidden genii of U. Col. ln sponsoring a creative writing competition with a fifty dollar first prize for both fiction and poetry. the Idol requests that typed copies of original work be submitted to Mrs. Marra in the Student Activities Office no later than March 22. To insure impartiality in the judging, all those making entries will sign their work with a pseudonym, placing the real name and \identification in an envelope to be given to Mrs. Marra. The winning submissions and hortorabl'e mentions will appea,r in the spring edition of the Idol. What's· Happening 11hursday, March 7 8 p.m. John Simon, fiJm and drama critic of New York Magazine, and author of lngmar Bergmaq 'Directs, will speak at SSOI6 Friday, March 8 12:30 .p.m. Noontime concert, Women's Chorus, at Old Chapel, hring your lunch. 2:00 p.m. Ba,kesale at Humanities to benefit the Union Child Care Cooperative, at the Faculty Lounge ~:00-12:00. Black Alliance Performing Arts Festival, Memorial Chapel ~ :30 p.rn. Coffeehouse featuring \Jimmy.\ 50 cents admission 9:00 E.C.A.C. Basketball, Union College Varsity team X:OO' College film Series: Bergman~s \The Communicants ............... t HARTWIGTENURE t t COMM. !t t An ad hoc. committee to 1 t (~inter L~ght)': free admission Saturday, March 9 2:00-:5:00 Photo Society Show, New (iallery in Arts Building, today through March J 6 ~:30 Faculty Square Dance, Old Chapel 9:00 p.m. E.C.A.C. Basketball, Union Varsity R:OO p.m. Social Committee Presents Edward Fox Blues and \Roomful of Blues:· Memorial Chapel, admission $1 .00 Sunday, March 10 Film Haps: \Oirty Harry,\ Admission $ 1.00, SSO 16, 7, 9, II p.m. Wednesday, ~artih 13 Russian affairs expert Marshall Shulman speaks on ••Detente after the Middle Fast,\ in SSOI6 at 8 p.m. Thursday, March 14 Kennedy Canspiracy, Robert Saltzman lectures, SSOI6, 7:30 p.m. ·1. consider the tenurability . oft.; ·Professor Hartwig has been ti ' ~ · · formed. It consists of~~ '11 .. · 11 . · -=-· -Professors E. Hansen ~; ·\ d 1 1 .(History) W. Thomas : · . ·. ~~~~~'' .. ~ .. ~· _ t<Modern Languages), J. t · ~ft~J4 _ tlJnderwClod (Political:! .'' ·Pi~l.;. . · . t Sdence ), and R. Shane brook ·~· •• · (Mechani~al Engineering),· 713,(LIIANY ST. Chairman. Member.s of the t· No delive~t· charge with Colle~e community may •. · t'lf.•o 8 cut pizzas. submit written opinions on •. · : WE DIU¥111 Professor Hartwig to any t .......... MIDNIGHT member of the committee 37~ tbefore March 20,1974. - t •--·-------· .. ........... . . . Sports Continued from Page 10 This Saturd_ay over twenty· schools will make the trek to Schenectady to compete in the Union Invitational. Among them are Colgate, . Springfield, Williams, Maine Maritime, Corland, RIT, and Binghamton State. Interestingly, University of Rochester will fail to enter as a team. Any competitors from the U of R will be here as individuals, their coach claiming that they do not have the funds ... remembering - the last time they came and ran against us at Memorial Fieldhouse, and got trounced! All fans are encouraged to come out and cheer the Dutchmen on to victory. It's FREEEEEE! - - - ~---------- -- ' LeVI'S .FERRO'S PHARMACY 'STUDENT DISCOUNr .S75NGUSt. 377-t511 .MHliJ RID.IN' RDPIN' WP.ANGLIN' and all that WESTEBN :BULLSHIT . pullecl. togethe:r 'bog MEL BROOKS inhis.new COMEDY CLASSIC 61'tJVf:hl to yov bY ~rnef'b'Mf-~he!JeO!Jie 1/;af g'flve you ''llle chrz Singre~\ 1/ · [!!] ~ From Warner ~ros. OA Warner Communication• Company .1. STARTS FRIDAY, MARCH 8TH .J /

Page 12 CONCORDIENSIS, Thursday, March 7, 1974 Concordy Sports E.C.A.C. in Deptb . . by HANK BERNSTEIN and BRIAN TUCKE.R It's tournament time in Schenectady! Union College clo:;ed out its regular season campaign this week in a different fashion ~- in the sense that a common ·l0psided win was sand- wiched between an unusual heart breaking loss to arch rival RPI and a dramatic come from behind victory at Amherst. This \leaves the Dutchmen at 19-3 tying the Union all time win ma·rk set two years ago during Jim Tedisco's senior year. The fina.! win also ,gave the Dutchmen a perfect 8·0 ,:ecord against its New England Small College Athletic Conference oppone,nts and the top seed in the ECAC Upstate New York tournament this week- end in Memoria;!. Fieldhouse. to contend with 6 ft. 10 in. Jim Dunn whe block.e<i. 6 shots and grabbed his share <Jf rebounds as the taller Engineers :~eat us off the boards by a 45-21' margi~. It was a very i-ntense, emotional contest m; each team. ·having well scouted the other, seemed \to stifle ·their opponent's offense_ John Denio, taking a p.hysicat beating, still exemplified' the art of fine defense, while Leroy Kelly eontinued to spark the offense, ·pumping in 13 points in the first half and finishing the .night with 17. However, their height and h·ome court advantage proved too much for the Dutchmen as we spa·tked by seven . points from Denio and six by Gugliottq, ran off the next 15 points and. were t-ied at. ,54 all wi:th 4 minutes r~maining; After trading hoops, !'rye Garnet scored 5 unanswered ,points to clinch the victory. . A !though there was little n1o.vement in the front court due to Amherst's tenacious I ~3-1 tone, the dyaamic duo of Carmody and Denio clicked from !lie backcourt pumping in 1.9 apiece. ln reference to this and last week's games Coach Scanlon observed: \It seetned that sinc.e we are top seed in the. tournament, the_ intensity has been lacking, t'!kmg away from gur game to ,game strategy. Th,ey seemed. to be looking past these games to the tournamenL\ photo credit hm Gluck Opening Tip Playing in the RPI zooercs' match box gym proved to be the difference in Union's 54-51 loss to the Engineers last Thursday. The 11arrow court bottled up the Ga:rnet offense, forcing us inside were often forced to settle for one shot at the hoop and never got the tip on a jump halL \I thought we played a good game,\ · concluded' Coach Scanlon; \we were beaten by a real good team, especially at horne_ We played hard; IJard enough to win any game, just not well enough. ' Comi.ng off the t()qgh upset loss to R PI the night before, the Dutchmen traveled to Worchester and thorougly outclassed Clark X6-56. At first the Clark Z!me caused some trouble. Brea~.ing it Thus the regular season is over and ·it all boils down to the tournament this weekend. Second seed in the tourney will be Brockport (1'6-9), who won the Division 3 ECAC ·last year. and went on to the quarterfinals of the NCAA only to be beaten by Assumption. Albany State, se.:;ded third, and Genesee State, seeded fourth, both bring their 16-7 records to round out the field. Coach Scanlon displayed disappointment at not getting another crack at RPJ who was not named to the tourney. Friday night finds Brockport against Albany State at 7 p.m., while the Dutchmen face Geneseo at 9 p.m. The losers will play a consolation game Saturday night at 7 while !'he championship tilt is scheduled for 9 p.m. All games are in the Fieldhouse. Seniors Chuck Abba, \Beanet\ Combs, and Luke Dillon will suit up lor U-Col for t-he \last time, closing out fine careers. So be there! \You won't want to miss it! Turks Edge Union 54 .. 51, open, however. the Garnet. hut Miss Tourney Bid by PHIL JOHNSON The Dutchmen won last year's EC AC inaugural with a 69-64 triumph over Albany State, avenging an overtirne loss to the Great. Danes in the finals of the Capital District Tol!rnament earlier that yea·r. streaked to a 32-18 llalftirne lead and cruised to the final .P-targin. Scanlon emphasized that Union's defense was the key as Clark was _,h.ut out fo·r the first several minutes of the second half. As he continued. ''t,he good thing about SCHENECTADY, N.Y. Defending Champion and top seeded Union College will face Geneseo State and Albany State will take on Brockport State at Union's Memorial Fieldhouse Friday, March 9, in the opening · round of the second annual Eastern College Athletic Conference Upstate New York Regional Basketball T ourna- ment. lJ nion 19-3, will play Geneseo, I 6-7. in the 9 p.m. game the opening night, preceded at 7 p.m. · by Albany, 16-7, .against Brockport, 16-9. The winners of the two games will' meet Saturday, (March 10} in a 9 p.m. championship game after a 7 p.m. consolation contest. Tickets both nights will go on s(lle at Memorial Fieldhouse beginning at 6 p.m., one hour before the first game. There will be no advance or reserve seat sales. Union rates the top seed on the ha sis of . its 19-3 record as first year head coach Bill Scanlon has ~een his club prosper with a tight pressing man to man defense that has allowed opponents only 58 points a game this winter. Guards Bill Carmody, a 5-11 junior, and John Denio, a 5-9 sophomore. key the defense and mntrol play at the other end as directors of Union's patient offense. The leading scorer for the Dutchmen is 6-5 junior center Charlie Gugliotta. who averages 17.3 a game. followed by 6-3 ~ophomore forward Steve Kelly v.ith an II point average. Carmody is the third starter in double figures with an even 10 point average, followed by Denio at 9.0 and forward Chuck Abba, :1 fi-2 senior at 8.6. 147 JA.Y ST. 1\lbany coach Dick Sauers has blended the talents of three freshmen guards with a veteran front court to chall< up his 19th straight winning season with the Danes. The seniors in the fore- court are 6d Byron tvJ ilk:r, a J.6.5 a game scorer, who is capable of do{llinating a game up front, 6-2 ·Reggie Smith, another regular the past. three seasons, who is currently scoring at a 12.6 pace, and 6-3 Harry Johnson, with an X.3 scoring average. Panaggio's team are 5-11 senior Dan Gilliu, who averages 16.5 a game, teamed at guard with the coach's son Dan Panaggio. a 5-11 freshman, who has a 9.7 a game scoring mark .. In the frontcourt is another Panaggio, Mike, a 6-2 junior with a 16.7 average; also 6- 4 senior Guy Vickers, a 12 point scorer and 6-8 sophomore Kevin Williams, a 5.0 scorer, at center. ('ieneseo, a 94-91 overtime loser to Brockport, but a 93-71 winner ()ver Albany, bring in the highest scorer in the ECAC field in 6;.2 junior forward Harry Ward, who sports a 20.4 a game average, Ed Robata, a 6-5 junior center, has a 16.5 average for the Blue Knights, who afso get double figures from 6-2 senior guard Pete Turner, a 12.6 scorer. Coach Tom Pope also starts 6-4 senior Tom Basher und 6-1 junior Gary Witter, with 6-4 junior Dave Silliman also seeing regular action. The Upstate New York tourney is one of four regional events begun last year under sponsor- ship of the ECAC. a game like this is tllat everyone J'lhlyed and everyone scored.\ Charlie Gugliotta 'led all scorers with 18 points, wbile Kelly and Denio chipped in 10 points apiece. The second team also played well. Poor Clark lJ niversity had played Union at the wrong time; after .an uncommon loss. Last Tuesday night, the cagers were again Ol! the road, this time against conference opponent 1\mherst. The. Dutchmen were in far more of a contest than they expected as the Lord Jeffs proved to be a much better team than their record indicated. .. This was evident as U.Col found itself down by 5 at intermission and 12 with 8 minutes showing on the dock. Yet Collch Scanlon was quick to point out the character of this squad, never letting up. \The guys hung in there and ended up winning by6. It's a real credit to this team.\ At that eight minute mark. the Dutchmen, ·Frosh Hoop by ANN TAUB What has brought the Danes up from an alleged building yea.r has been the play of first Year guards Ed Johnson, Mike Suprunowicz and Gary Trevett, who have avoided the major pit- falls of inexperience, and have averaged 12.6. 8.6 and 5.7 in regular action. Pete Koola, a 6-4 junior center has come on to help ~ince becoming eligible at mid- season, and is averaging 5.3, while 6-2 junior Rich Kapner is back after losing his starting role with an injury earlier in tile season. Union lnvitatio~ Union Frosh Basketball closed out their season losing two of their last three games. The RPI Engineers turned a close game into a rout with a 73-57 win. avenging a previous loss at lJ nion. AI Walker led the Dutchmen in the losing cause with 16. Brockport has on hand three ~tarters from last year's club that finished fourth in the college division tournament in Evansville, Ind. And the current team finished only a basket at the buner. away from going the national route again as the Golden Eagles dropped a 71-70 decision to Buffalo State on a tip- in in the final second -to lose out on the State University Conference Championship, and the automatic bid to the NCAA. Top performers for Mauro l47JAY ST. I >efending champion Cortland State, Springfield and the Univer- ~ity of Rochester are expected to 'ie for team honors at the 18th annual Union Invitational Track Meet, Saturday. March 9 at l Inion's Memorial Fieldhouse. Cortland won the event by one point last year edging Union, v. hich has never won its own invitational.49\t2 to 48!-t5. Spring- field. on the basis of a strong ~howing· at Union earlier this season, and Rochester. winner of its own and· the Cortland lnvitationtfl this season, are figured the best bets for the title. !Inion. Colgate, and the Coast (iuard Academy are given outside ~:hances to take the team honors. Other teams entered · in the event are Albany State, Amherst. Binghamton State, Brockport State. Buffalo State. and llartwick. 1\lso: Rensselaer .Poly. Rochester Tech. Siena. Westfield State. ~nd-Williams. With Union's Memorial Field- Muse now sporting a new tartan .,.., ~urface. records in ali tile runnmg events are expected to be challenged in the lileet. I he Invitational gets under way at noon with the field· events, \\ hile the eight track events .that include two relays. are set to hegin at I :Jo. p.m. THE BLACK STUDENTS' ALLIANCE OF UNION COLLEGE PRESENTS OnMarch8 A Performing Arts Festival \The Black Experience II\ The perfor111anee \'!'ill ~nclude · A.frican dance. modem ·dance, a skit, live music arid a Martial Arts demonstration also a poerty presentation done b:f the members of the B.S.A. The- p~rformance starts at 8 pJD. in Memorial Chapel . I he Garnet rebounded with an X4-76 victory over Clark. A balanced scoring attack. (Steve Hahn 14, Peter Meola and Gary Borgess 12, and AI Walker 9), accounted for the victory. 1\mhcrst was awar-ded a 62-61 \ ictoty over Union on a very questionable foul \at the buzzer.\ Meola and Walker paced the Dutchmen with 21 and 14 · respectively. Coach Mike Doyle's Yearlings finish their season 10-7, led by Pete Meola averaging 13.4 points H game with 227 season total. AI Walker with 12.9 and 219 total, Hnd Gary Borgese with 12.0 and 205 total followed the lead. Rich Gorman helped the team effort in his own way by averaging 4.4 fouls a game. i I ..

from ra:n and. were 4 minutes hoops, victory. little court due ous 1~3-J duo of icked from in 1.9 this and Scanlon sinc.e we lacking, game to med to be to the on is over n to the Second will be won the year. and 0f the eaten by State, State, ing their out the getting was Friday against the 9p.m. 7 while in the k Abba, Luke for fine won't closed of RPI game win. at the cause an A (Steve er 9), 62-61 very j the j 14 rlings by AI total, and Rich in 4.4 \lntegf.ity of vjews more th-an their soundness, lS the basis of-esteem\ Thomas Jefferson Vol.103, No. ,15 Thursday, .March 14, 1974 35 cents .. Critically Speaking future however. and especially in besides only being trained to run the field ofreviewing. Mr.. Simon to the kitchen dunng commercials believes that within the field of art or intermission for a quick snack, an elite. group should exist; all the movie buff. suffers from New Card-Eater by BILL-VALLEE Do movie or drama critics ever sp.eculate about each other's ta1ents and. reviews? Do t:hese writers haVe any training othe.r than watChing a, dozen movies and plays a week? Last Thursday night was the time to find out first hand from John Simon, drama and cinema critic for New York Magazinf.!• In a hilarious discussion of t·he modern movie critic, Mr. Simon, with . keen cutting edge, carved away at a bou.t . 9~c;i ·t1f all , other reviewers' of movies, and c~1mpletely laid flat IOOC/(· of a'll American movies. producers and directors. - !he only 4uestion, in fact. which caught Mr. Simon at a loss was who he .thought the great American directors today were. \There are none,\ was his pe.ople are not equally capable of creating or judging art. He also claims·· that a higher form of Hteracy ~hould be ach·ieved within the spe.eific .fie.ld of reviewing a.nd within art itself. Mr. Simim pointed out that most of today's movie critics are simply \movie buffs,\ people who were raised in a most hearty and invigorating way ~ sitting all day if! ·front of the television or in movie ho·uses, and have consequently become Hollywood- oriented, popularly-opiniona.ted, anti-intellect·uals. Simon stated: ·~such a critic hopes only to create a loving 1:eadership, not truly honest· and literate r.eviews.\ lhe \movie buff' critic has another fault which hinders him tesp.onse. from creating anything He dia rais.e hopes for the worthwhile. according to Simon: Mid-East Detente by CHRIS O'CONNOR Prof. Marshall D. Shulman, Director of the Russian Institute at Columbia Univer·sity, addressed a large audience on \Detente After the Middle East.\ Stating that revolutionary changes have· taken place in the international system, Pro-f. Shulman said this was due to the advance of weapons technology, the emergence of oil as a tool of policy and the widening gap hetween deve1oped and underdeveloped nations. The result is that the U.S.-Soviet relationship has become less important, less effective in dealing with the pmblems of the international syst-em. This is also the time, says Prof. Shulman. when the industrialized countries including U.S. ahd Soviet 'Union ~++++++++++++++++++++++* i Gasoline+ I Concordiensis conducted an~ informal sur'tey of selected gas \!a.t_ions this week. Judging .b,y ~he 111111ted response. (:gas statiOn · attendants are reluctant to a\\av trade . ~ecrets over the phone.) it looks as though the.re ''ill he enough gas to get home. Other gas stations would not di' ulge their plans. hut as +accurate a pictur.e CIS possible of ~·th~; gas situation w·HI he provided. 1 in this space. + Only one station (Jacob's I AMOCO, 5X5 Broadway) eXpects to run out. Fred's EXXON at l 'nion and Jay Streets has the he~! prices we know of (4X.9 cents lor regular and 52.9 cents for ~ pl'emium)~ although they might· j ~tart restricting hours and amounts near the end of the. month. . ::f! <iershon GULF. l6.iX Union :J; Street, has the highest prices we j know of (5X.9 ce?ts regular and -+ (>19 cents premiUm). out the :1: manager says that gas is sold by :1 the tankful. · ~ Denny's SUNoc.o. at 1~55 + Hroadway. has , pnces rangmg :1: I rom 51 cents to oJ cents. + dependii1g on the 'vintage. Again. + . ]' . d +amount purchased ts not 11111te . ~ Johnny's ARCO. at 716, Nott + Street. sells regular for 55.7 cents :f: and premium for 61.9 cents, and + expects to have a good supply for t tht: rest of the_ mo11th. · i+.+++++++++++++++++++++ are turning inward, becomint, more concerned with domestic policies. ln response to these changes Prof. Shulman sees six factors effecting Soviet policy. The first is the economy, where growth has. slowe,d, especiaiJy ln thP. . agricultural and technological sectors. Shulman sees. the Soviets opting for a large intl.ux of goods. capital. and technology. hence the improvement in economic relations. Second. Prof. Shulman sees the Soviet Union as having \drawn abreast o( the U.S. in strategic weapons competition.\ making it possible for them to engage in the Strategic Arms Limitation Talks. this factor relates to the first in that the USSR spends a greater portion of its national product on \\eapons than the U.S. Thirdly, the Russians see '•the U.S. as having passed the zenith of its power. · This provides the opportunity for an increase if! .the relative influence of the U.S.S.R. vis a ·vis the U.S. with the rest of the world. Fourth. .the Soviet Union perceives the growth of W. Europe into one of the major industrial powers in the world. J'his poses a threat and a promise to the Russians, depending on how closelv tliis major eco-center is allied to\ the U.S. Fifth, the apprehension of tht: Soviets about the role ofChina in future events. Soviet fears about Chinese actions also recommend a policy of reduced tensions with the West. Lastly, the Soviet system of contro 1 in E. Europe is not resilient enough to maintain its previous hold on E. Europe. These factors together argue for a policy of recluced tensions with the W'est. As tensions relax ahroad. controls are tightened at home in order to maintain control the party. acc~rding to Prt>f. Continued on page 7 The College Senate polls. 'hould be distributed to ail, · ~tudents. Off~fa.mpus residents. ~hould pick up a poll at Student_ Activities. Please return the, itnswered poll to your R.A. by Friday, March 15th.. Yom· t•ooperat ion is greatly appreciated. matinee idol syndrome, He needs to become soci·al!y acquainted with the people of the industry. a fault which will prevent him fl'orn ever laying low any work by one of his friends. John Simon's advice for prospective reviewers: (A) avoid Hollywood (worship of stars, Following only popula.r opinion. looking to the box-office for reviews), (8) don't think of how you can please yo\ur readership at the sacrifice of (C) delivering literate and honest reviews. Mr. Simon recommends a liberal arts hackground with graduate work wi·thin film. If the reviewer really is not part of that elite corps with real (::reativity within art then he can look forward to someday heing talked ahout at a lecture by a fine reviewer such as John Simon. · by JOHN FOSTER If you've ever used the co-mputer, you should have twticed, with great frustration. the turn-over time problem. Turn-. over time (the time between submitting a deck of cards and receiving the computer output) increases from minutes at the beginning of the term, to hours by the middle, and approaches infinity by the tenth week. In 1969. 10 courses used the computer; by 1972 the number had risen to 35, and it continues to grow. These courses cover Computer .. Science, Electrical Engineering, Comprehensive Education, Economics, Political Science, Engineering Science, P~ychology, and ma,ny independent studies. It has been estimated that at least 551,:(, of the student body uses the computer. Yet this is less than half of the total load. The administration also use~ the computer, in such areas <•s external affairs. Student Life The Student life Committee has finally emerged from obscurity. and is once again d force to be reckoned with. Student Life will take an active role in the housing arrangements that will he made in the Spring. Students that have questions or suggestions about the, ml!-nner in which dorms will oe set up, or the housing lottery are urged to contact members ·of the Student life Committee. for they have <l direct route to the Housing Office. The Student Life has recently set up a new 24-hour-a-day IN FORMATION SERVICE, that informs the students on lectures. movies, sports, parties, nieetings. streakings. and virtually everything else happening on campus. The phone is 370-6000 ICe nt rex dial \0\ ). · All presidents. chairmen. and organi1ers of activities are urged to inform the Information Service hy contactmg Mrs. Marra in the Student Activities Office. Also. since the switchboard will not let anvone know what one's centrex ph~me number is. students are urged to drop hy the Housing Office and let Mrs. Baxter know vour name and number. . The Student Life Committee will hold a meeting on Tuesday. March 21 at 7:00 p.m. in the basement lounge of Richmond. All interested students are urged to attend and ask yuestions. give suggestions or make demands. ~nformation will be disseminated concerning coed dorms, squatter's rights, the housing lottery and current issues of the day. rhe members of the Student life Committee are (and Concordy urges you to call) Mitch Weisburgh (.J46-95li2), Lynn Sutton (346~9227), Judy Male (370-6432), Lauren Gordon (370-6452). Jerry Comatos (346- 9~95). Stew Ahraman 070~6520). Steineker Speaking to a lar!(e crowd in SS0/6 on March 12. Steve Volk explained the factors behind overthrow of the Allende Government. The program was sponsored by the Political Forum. admissions, accounting, the registrar's office, student pre- billing, and the payroll. With more and more work being done on the computer, the inadequacies of Union's G-415 becomes more and more obvious. Last year, the Computer Center staff prepared a report on computer facilities at Union. The major alternatives covered were: I) the status quo; 2) purchasing a new computer; 3) pu-rchasing a used computer; and, 4) upgrading the G-415 to a G-435 by purchasing additional memory, and other changes. The report recommended upgrading to a G- 435, because it was the least expensive alternative, and this recommendation was made to the Board of. Trustees last spring. During the summer, Trustee Whalen talked with the Burroughs Corporation, which responded by offering Union a corporate gift of a B-5700 computer, an upgraded version of one which Union had considered huying. The s6le stipulation was that Burroughs be allowed to learn about the systems being developed at Union under an Exxon Foundation grant, a condition Union would have no trouble meeting. In October the Hoard of Trustees voted to accept Burroughs' offer. ·1 he B-5700 is a used computer. approximately the same age as our G·415. though far more sophisticated. It contains four times the memory of the G-415, and is capable of three times the throughput (the number of jobs done in a given time). The new machine will have two card readers. two pri\nters and four remote CRT terminals, with two more to be added later. The B- 5700 is larger than the G-415. so a new 2000 sq. ft. computer center will be huilt adjacent to the existing center. between Steinmetz and BJJttcrfield Halb. The new center will have a student area. containing the four terminals and a card reader, hopefully minimizing deck thefts. Output will be placed in one of a IOxiO matrix of boxes. divided by student user number so that all the programs for one course won't be together. The new ~ystem is expected to be in operation by February 1975 with the CJ-.415 being removed in February 1976. During the year of simultaneous operation. the many software packages <primarily .administration programs) will be converted for the B-5700. The conversion process will require 6-9 man- \ cars. necessitating the hiring of i\our new people for the 4-:(Jll\crsion period. as well as one new computer operator. The cost will be $230,000 for the new huilding and $170.000 for the l·onvcrsion effort. !here are two other important advantages of the new system. I wclvc other colleges have B- 5700's allowing Union to obtain software from other schools. Also, there are tw.o similar machines in this area, giving tf nion the potential of a back-up ~vstcm in case of emergency. '\either situation exists with the (i-415. The new computer, along with the recently acquired PDP-8 mini-computer, will give Union ~tudents access to a modern and more co.mplete computer system, perhaps with a little less frustration than before.

Pdge2 . CONCORDIENSIS, Thursday, March 14, 1974 ·. ,Editors-in-chief .................. Judy Dein, Bill Talis ~News Editor ............................. Phyllis Ed~Iman Sam Johnson Editors, Concordiensis: Culture -Editor ............................. : .... Pete Sobol The 4uotation appearing in the heading in the March 7 issue is a pamphrase of Samuel Johnsoro (c. 1775): ''Sir, Hell is paved with Sports Editor ................................. Bart Me~r Photo Editor ........................... ; ..... Bill Erichson Au't Photo Editor .. ~ ................. Leslie Steineker · Copy Editor~ .. ~··.~·······u~······ .. ····~~·~······-P~.l :AicabeS good intentions!\ · BUthering Editors ..•. ; ............... Rob Mondschcin. ·Chris O'Connor Boswell's Life of Dr. Johnson; Everyman Ed., Vol I, p .555. E. J. Oaig EE Dept. .Busine5s ~itor .. : .......................... Alan Gnessin · National Advertising ..................... :steve Kelley Subscriptions Editor .............. Gene Ro8enblum Layout •..•. : ........... ~ dav.e Strom, Linda Mackey .·: Perspective ·· CGDCIOI ill_m• is pu~lilhed every Thursday by the student body .or Un~on COllege, Old~ Hall. Schenectady, N;Y~. Publications Offtce,, The Jewish World Publications, 771 State St., Schenectady, N.Y., 12307 (346-2356). Entered in the Schenectady Post Office as Second Class Matter. Subscription Rate 35 cents per copy, $8 •. 00 a .year .deli,cred 11nywhere .in the United States. Deadline for copy is 'Tuesday 5:00 P.M. - . - .. . - ·~ ·Editors, Conwrdiensis: 1n the Perspective of March 7, there was an article entitled \Shtcks and Sports,\ which requires some discussion. Admittedly, a persan would have to be both blind and deaf were he to say that the racial situation at Notes on School Policy Union is ideal. The backgrounds of many Union students may leave them unaware of problems -rurrounding Blacks and other minority groups. A Free Press Perspective can serve as an ideal vehicle of expression for membel's of such minorttles; Perspective can be the voice which eases racial tensions and by WILLARD ENTEMAN A crucial element of a free democratic society is a free press. In preparing young men and women to advance a functioning democratic society, we attempt to give them as much freedom as possible in the production of student newspapers. I hardly need say that neither I personally nor Union institutionally approves of or condones all Concordiensis says or does. As I understand the sequence of events in question, Perspective was a . fledgling . student paper produced by some • black students on campus. It had promise (in fact some thought more promise than Concordiensis).- However, it lacked financial resources. The then editors of ('oncordiensis ugreed to take Perspective unger Course Dropping by H. E. WYLEN So You Want To Drop A Course After The 6th Week? After the end of the sixth week· of the term (which was March I for the current term), students dropping a course receive a grade of F \unless the student's adviser and the Assistant Dean of the College agree that there are extraordinary personal circumstances, in which case the grade sh;}ll be WP or WF. .. \ (pp. 69-70. Academic Register 1973- 74). Many students, it appears. are unaware of the College regulation quoted above and, even if aware, unsure of the meaning of the words \extraordinary personal circumstances.\ My views of the interpretation of the legislation can best be expressed by a few examples: doing poorly in a course is not in and of itself \extraordinary nor is the fact that a student is not enjoying the course (he or she has had six weeks to make that decision). \Extraordinary\ circumstances would include illness or injury (documented). emergencies which require the student to leave campus for a period of time, and external pressures, such as employment. which are not avoidable and which make excessive demands on the student's time. There may, of course, he other legitimate cases of \extraordinary personal Continued on pa~e 7 .. their wing and give Perspedive problems at Union. But an article some room in Concordiensis. such as \Blacks and Sports\ is not \-aS a decision made by only irresponsible journalism - c:ditors of Concordiensis; as far for it rna kes many gross 1 know, it is a decision continued generalilations which have little ny the present editors. It seems .or no basis in reality - but it is me that within the context of the irresponsible in the sense that it development of students for a only serves to further the functioning democratic S<>ciety, hostilities which presently exist. we should not interfere on this We do not object to the idea of a issue however much we may · Hlack newspaper at Union; disagree with their decision. however, we must object to a I do not want to appear to hide newspaper that refuses to hehind an administrative decision recognize how much it can do to t() exercise restraint from control alleviate an intolerable situation. of the press. In fact, I applaud the Sincerely, decision the editon 0 Gary, Luks, Fred Weil, ('oncordiensis made. They saw a <;ary Geller, Ken Undahl, fledgling paper in need and Vincent Scarpinato, Steven ~ought to keep it going. Perhaps Wollins, Peter Tavino, Greg one day Perspective will have McNamara, David Gordon, Cliff enough strength to go it alone. tangweiller, Ted Twonbley, Greg a 11 d w i 11 h rea k f r 0 Luntz, Steve Levine, Mitch Kahn, Concordiensis. A campus with111·~-itelllhE!n B. Kelly two newspapers is, in my opinion, hetter and more democratic than a campus with one. I am not 1\ orried about other newspapers. If thev could he started and could ~urvi;e (either alone or under the \\ ing of (oncor«Jiensis), I would <ipplaud that, also. After all, the history of journalism in America does reveal many papers and maga7ines self-consciously aimed at specialized (and in some cases t:thnic or racial)' audiences. I do think it is important to point out that Perspective does not receive financial support from the College as such. Its support is from Concordiensis and Concordiensis is supported in part by student taxes which are distributed by student !!overnment officers. Since the ( 'o!lege never \listed\ Perspective, .I am not sure what the effect of \delisting\ might he. At any rate, I can see no reason even t() request Perspective to cease publication. · Streaking Editors, Concordiensis: I sincerely hope that Union students will have the good sense to refrain from entering into the tad of \streaking\ which, in my \ iew.. ranks along with the goldfish swa·llowing and 'phone booth crowding episodes of a few rs ago. If oweVer. it is not my intention to sermonize the students at ll nion regarding what they should or should not do. but rather to inform them of a very limited kind of streaking which was revalent sixty years ago. It should be remembered, of course, that we had no coeds in tho.se days and the wives of professors \1 ho lived on campus could he pretty well bet upon to be asleep hy tflt: time of night when this particular form of streaking. l'OmmonLy called \strip poker,\ took place. I shall select one episode about . - . . A pleasant way to spend a lunch hreak :..__ the women's chorus performed on Friday. Match 8 at 12:30. You Said It! \Beta streaking team show.s their true form.\ photo by Vi which to tell you, to Wit: It was 2:00 A.M. and there was a strip poker game going on in a certain residence, w·hich shall remain unidentified. The game is played \\ithout money; but when any participant loses a pot he must remove one piece ofdothing. The First person to become completely stripped is obviously the loser and his penalty is to \streak\ around the Nott Memorial and back t.o his place of resi4ence. Incidentally, this was not a Springtime actiVIty. One ~equirement was that there had to he snow on the gro·und. Fortunately the loser was traditionally allowed a pair of ·bedroom slippers. On t·he specific occasion about \\ hich I am telling you, there was an unfortunate result which had nothing to do with either the city police or the campus patrolman. rhe loser on this occasion was a track man and he really streaked around the \round building\ and hack home in time which bore a close resemblance to his condition of dress. But alas! The household help at his place of residence (a man and wife) had been out on a ·. lale party and these three (one c:ompletely bare) met, face to !'ace. at the front door. The next morning everybody wondered 1\ hy no breakfast had heen prepared. The answer was simple. .l'he outraged help had packed up its belongings and fled this den of iniljuity. Apparently times have c:hanged as they always do. Yours sincerely, H. J. Delchamps '15 Former Editor of The ('oncordiensis Waste Time I Editor.<J.: Concor~emii:. 'After reading in the Schenectady Gazette about the ''streaking\ ... I wrote a letter to the Editor of the paper ... stating what a RIDICULOUS waste of time it is. You mean to say all of your students('?'!'?'!) have nothing better to do than run around naked - for no reason'!'?'?'? If your college students .really \lant to do something worthwhile \1. ith their \spare\ time - (and as , College students - you couldn't possibly have too much of it - if you were stud-ying.) ... then why not try to help out some of the hospitals, lonely elder people. scouts. become a \Big Brother\ or \Big Sister,\ etc. Come on college students ... let's see you do somethi:ng REALLY USEFUL with your 4th Floor South Editors,. Concordiensis: Regarding the untoward remarks appearing in Concordy•s \Blither\ column of March 7, 1974 concerning activities on fourth floor South, several comments would seem appropriate. In taking violent exception to the inaccurate statements which <.lid appear. I would llke to first make clear that, although many of the occupants of fourth floor South have labored, not unwillingly, under the epithet \Moonmen at no time have they engaged in the widespread and 11agrant flaunting of the fantail. Admittedly, several exceptions to this rule do exist. and the rather unseemly pastime to which you refer is not totally· unknown in these quarters (be they hind or otherwise). However, the.se base astions. remain, and must be seen: as . flukes - as the flashings of only a few of our more degenerate fellows. One thing is clear: the association of those who· live ·on the fourth floor of South with the sport of \mooning\ has no hasis in fact. :\OW to proceed on to a rtlore ~erious matter: namely, the state- ment that \German marching tunes\ were played during the llebrew protest. To say that we are dismayed at the implications of such a slanderous charge is to understate the case. If Conco,rdy's reporter had been conscious at all, he would have recognized, not <ierma.n marching music, but the skirl of Scottish bagpipes, which have been heard upon many occasions, this being merely one of them. That such an innocent incident could be made to seem. contrary to the facts, as an anti- Semitic outburst indicates a serious lack of responsibility on the part of both reporter and c·ditors. All members of the college community would be he.tter served if, in t'he future. the 'taff of C'oncordy made a more conscientious effort to ascertain the facts, and to portray ~ituations accurately. Sincerely yours. David McCourt '76 .Jonathan Scheer '76 I· ditol's' Note: Concordiensis \I as in error regarding. the type of music played during the Hebrew Protest. it must be pointed out. however, that attempted disruption and llagrant disrespect lor a protest can only serve to promote misinterpretation of the lacts. * * time. • I .. IHH-IIHHIH-IIe-IIIIIIIUIII ' :'-/a me withheld ~~ ·\tt.entwn: . 1-\ro~pec~IVe tour ·~ f<ir obvious reason: ~u1des; App-hcatwns for • P.S. NO r am not a ; (;atesmcn will he avaialble this 1 crotchetY old maid __ 1 am a 39 • :\l(mday, March 18, in the ! yr. old i 10 usewife and mother. i ..\.dmissions Office. Deadline for ~~ i their return is Friday, April 19, : 1974. • j••••n•••••• .. ••••••••\'''''\•••••••••~••• .. •••~

by Vi 7, ties on several seem ption to which to first h many noor not epithet they and nd the which or e base seen: ngs of rate the IVe ·on ith the hasis more state- g the at we is to us at not the Nhich one anti- s a y on and the be , the '76 '76 nsis of rew to the , ur i i ; 1 t I. I You Said It! WRUC J<3ditors, Concordiensis: Once again .it is time to go through that lri-annual event, dubbed the 'agony of the apathy.' :-.;H, Vm not talking about finals, hut of the· elections of yet another student organization, Last term we had Concordy, this term it's WRUC. In _case you're not one of those select few ~about 90) disc jHckeys, let me fill you ,in. Every \·ear at about 'this time, WR UC ho'l{!s elections for five big officers and various other positions. For the past year, the station has been under the expert guidance of Chris Fi.nk, soon to t>ecome the expert guidance of yet anoth.er diw·rgarii7:a:!ion, the Social Committee. During the reign of Fink, the ~tation has seen little recognrt10n of. its existence, except for last week when W R U C ~Nas. as if by wizardry, turned into \Streak CentraL\ But that's another story. rhe point of this plethora of cvnicism is that Once again, what c~1uld be a very fine radio station v. ith a wide I istening a,udience and 1 aried musical programming is getting yet another chance to go down the drain of disgust due to ineffective ( act1:1ally non,existent) management. apathy in almost eYery place,. and what will he termed 'the ego trip syndrome.' lhis syndrome is characterized hy each D.J going to that other hothed of apathy, the \~tudent center,\ plays his favorite bland of muz(!k, and gets his jollies for that week thinking that the entire 11orld (or at 'least downtown Schenectady) is listening t<l him. \VR UC could do ~ometiling to increase its listenership, and coincidentally, heighten its programmihg· :hy some small, easily obtaihafllC\'goals' (small and easy jf people are willing to care). One of them is to get rid of the present non-management. This is easiJ.v done since elections f'or a new- supervisory staff are this Monday. Another JS to atte1npt to organi1e some kind of programming. Each OJ has his different outlook on the musical \\orld why not use those \arious opinions effectively'? And publish a program guide as welL ~o that listeners know what to expect (or what not to expect) \\hen they go for the friendly 640. Have more direct I istener contact. such as what happened last Thursday night. only on a less ~cnsationalistic scale. Fliminate those .[)refah announcements (or at least reduce them), fhlln the registrar or 'tudent aid, ad infinitum. We hil\e other places for this information, why pound it into uur heads while one wants music'! ,\nd finally. this point: Have the DJ's he required to do more than DJ'ing every week. There are <lhvays · people lacking in sales, reviewing, technical capacities, and those other dirty johs_ Let's 'tor all this fantisi1ing about hci ng a not her Pete Fornatale or Cnusill Brucie (depending on \Our musicallv tastes) and have a ~ood ~tat ion.' C)therwise, we might <Is \\ell shut off WRUC and let people come into those Jllusi,l S50.000 studios for the sheer .. .-njoyment of listening to all thost: 'l'fatched rec·ords. For. after all, t h·a t ' s w h a t W R lJ C h a s degenerated inti) now. David Slrom Union Lettuce Editors: foncordiensis Several months ago, members of the Student Social Action ( 'ornmitt.ee solicited signatures for a petitio·n requesti.ng the curtailment nf lettuce purchases hy the Saga Food Service at West College. The lettuce is produced in Caf.ifornia by corporations resisting the unionization of the rons:id era bl y impoverished migrant agricultural laborers· by the United Farm Workers .. under the leadership of Cesfir Chavez and Do·lores Huberta. More than half of these people who regularly eat at West College signed the retition, and it was l!.greed that only UFW ·lettuce or lettuce rrod:uced in areas not subject to lJ FW organizing efforts would be purchased - thus supporting the nationwide boycott of .non-union California lettuce. After a period of misunderstanding on the part of Saga purchasing agents as to \\hat constituted union lettuce. it v.as discoVered that it was tJ,i fficult to get lettuce accord'ing to the criteria implied in the \lording of the pe.titlon, and that the only alternative was to purchase lettuce substitutes such as romaine, when local or UFW lettuce was not available. As a result, a letter was posted by the Saga managers, Harold Richardson and Gary H ipp, that not only explained the policy with regard to lettuce purchases, but \\ent considerably beyond that. to the point of including what was essentially a ballot sheet that \\ould, as they indicated, provide the opportunity for reversing ttie original decision to support the hoycott. The following is a response t9 the letter of March 6, that was posted near the 'Beef Board' of the West College cafeteria: One assessment of the sncial consciousness here at Union Colle·ge would reveal that there is a considerable preiportion of ·lli1ion students only marginally interested in ameliorating socii! evils. Some of us in the Student Social Action Committee were therefore very pleased when mote than three-fourths of the Students eating at West College signed the petition to hleck the purchases of non-U FW-produced lettuce, and hy implication supported the 1-armworkers' efforts to better the atrocious living conditions of migrant agricultural laborers. If is in this regard that I object to the content of the letter p(')sted by the Saga managers. Contrary to their assertion that \we don't plan to take a stand on the issue.'' 1 helieve that the letter is indeed standing on t.he issue. My critcism is this: in the light oC many students' ambiguous and rather uncommitted positions on active movements for social change, especially • when it affects such ~elf-interest as the sa·tisfaction of the palate. it is indefensible for the supposedly neutral managers, in a sufficiently powerful positi<~n to influence studen:t opinion, to unilaterally provide the niechanism for overturning the intial decision to support .the 1-armworker bovcott. I helieve that any decision to maintain or withdraw support l'rom the Farmworkers should be made on the has is of a student- initiated examination of issues. and a st udenhorgan ized referendum. In the meantime. present purchasing policies sh('iUld he continued. ,Jim Landen Member of the Student Social Action ('ommittee -~- LeVI'S ·Dift'aM .. A~tt ...... ( ... MI. Hi •. CONCORDIENSIS, Thursday, March 14, 1974 Page3 Notes On Nudes A seven year old boy crossing Union's grounds dryly comments, \If people were supposed to be naked, then we wouldn't have clothes.\ A Union College Professor Emeritus predicts of streaking's future, ··There's no end to it aiL\ Union College, the first school' in the nation to hang Nixon in effigy, but in recent years a bastion of academic solit.ude, has heen overcome with the craze known as streaking. It .all hega.n in the wee hours of Thursday morning, March 7, as hundreds of students left their Organic books, slide rules, and causal models to be placated by the graceful and sleek streakers who pranced across West College. The weather was balmy, and many a mild-mannered student disrobed his former self to assume a new personality. Daring Daytime Later in the morning, In the class break at 11:30 a.m., two streakers dashed across the Librarv Plaza. Concordy was there.· The streak was well-exe~ cuted. and advance publicity allowed a good-sized crowd to turn out for .the spectacle. Beta Streaking Team The Beta Streaking Team, whose self-admitted desire is \returning to nature, wherever she_ may be,\ l.ed the way in Thursday night's streaki the most populous streak in Union's history., Some ~0 students performed' before 500 delighted spectators: The route involved a flash visit at Dean Smith's, a jog through the Rat·hskeller, and numereus sprints past the Library and Student Center. Basketball Streak On Friday evening, half-time monotony was broken with what must be described as the finest streak of the season, during the EC AC playoffs. The streaker, in a record 3.6-second haul, caught his unsuspecting audience off-guard, \Who was that masked man?\ many witnesses would ask. foncordy had several photographers on the scene. Most were unable to catch the streaker on film. However, Concordy did !,,cate and secure photographs from a successful camera-hawk, which are shown below. f'hill Factor Streaking this past week has heen stymied by the cold weather. Union's attempt at breaking the small College streaking record on Saturday night collapsed with a few cases of frostbite 10 embarrassing localities. Seeking solitude in Library . \~ ....... ~ ....... . \I ' ' ,. Interview :uNION COW:6E k---- ''Super Streaker\ by CHUCK ROTHMAN Super Streak started it alL His daring daylight streak in front of the GE building at rush hour was witnessed by press and police. Super Streak got the idea of streaking from an article in Newsweek. . Streaking is a rather difficult task in the beginning. \At first.'' he said, \it's like planning a bank job. Once you get through your first attempt at streaking it's cake after that It's no different than just running along with your clothes on.'' The importance of planning was stressed. One does not run a successful streak on the spur of the moment. The run past GE was · planned to the second. Super Streak waited in th~ area wearing some old clothes he no longer wanted. At the proper moment he jumped into some nearbv hushes. tore off his clothes. put on a 'mask and charged through the parking lot and across the nearby railroad track. where a get-away car was waiting. What has this courageous soul planned for the future? Super was vague as to what his plans are. but he J?entioned several possibilities. A streak streak. a streak of streakmg. was proposed and streaking activities during parents weekend hinted at, along With expeditions to nearby shopping centers. As for records: \Size records are out of the question but we are going to find some interesting things for streakers to do. Possibly sommersaults across 1 the l;mn in front of the SS building with no clothes on.'' The idea of coed strea.king a p.peals to Super Streak. He considers a ll'malcstreaker a liberated woman. \If women feel they are liberated they should display this by going out there and streaking with the guys,\ he stated. Before Super Streak left to pursue his chosen profession (he will not be doing any endorsements for fear of losing his amateur standing) he left the streakers of Union this message: \Before the administration cracks down on all the streakers I urge everyone to get out and 'streak. Streak now or forever hold your peace.\ Field, a streaker nearly fell victim to a hit-and-run attempt. Security's investigation revealed that it was mef.ely a case of a· curious motorist~ Wind Ensemble by PHIL KASS The concert by the Netherlands Wind Ensemble on March 6th was an out-of-the-ordinary performance. The musicians wore everyday clothes on stage rather than formal attire, and took an informal approach to their concert. During intermission, they presented a very humorous slide show, which further added to the relaxed mood that night Their program was an all- Mozart concert consisting of the Divertimento in F, K. 270, the Serenade in C Minor, K. 388, and the Serenade in B-Oat, K. 361 (Gran Partita). Wind instruments are the most difficult ones to control, and it was a joy to hear a group w.ith such beautiful articulation and balance. That these men could perform large ensemble works with the balance and precision of a string quartet is something to be marvelled at. The performances were fresh and clean, always tastefully done and musically rewarding. The real treat, though, \\as saved for last Their performance of the Gran Partita · was one of those rare occasions in which all the performers act and think as one; the result was a truly outstanding performance, one to ~erve as a goal in performing in years to come. If any movements could be singled out. they would be the ensemble's versions of the Adagio and the Finale. As an encore. an aria from Don Ciiovanni was performed, with the ohneist walking downo the aisle and the bussist playing his bass like a guitar. fhe next concert, the final one in the series this year, will feature the Cleveland Quartet on April I Xth. in a program of Beethoven, lves, and Mendelssohn. Admission is free to the Union community. hy DEBBIE GLASSER The .Freshman Record, that little book that one tends to 'alue more and more with advance in college standing, is ,- compiled every spring term b)' a small group of dedicated l 'nion veterans. This year's small group met for a first organizational meeting on Tuesday night, March l2 and wish to make their purposes and needs known now, early. Any and all students interested in helping on the book are strongly encouraged to Jotn the team. Photographers and darkroom technicians are particularly needed. In fact, the funds of . the record are available to photographers wishing to shoot pictures that could be appropriate for the book. Near the end of the spring term, help in typing and layout will be needed. In addition, criticisms, sugges.ions, and ingenious ideas are welcomed and encouraged. Editor Jeanne Harris (370-6519) and Advisor Denise Ruthenberg (370-6428) are the people to call. Mrs. Marra in Student Activities, is now taking orders for next ,·ear's Freshman Record. The ~tudent price is $4 for bound and $3 for unbound copies; the faculty prices are $1 higher for l.'ach.

Page4 CONCORDlENSTS, Thursday, March 14, 1974 A Roster of Committees Selection Process The time of · year during which student members are selected ·for the various College; faculty'; and student committees is upon us all once' again. This year, the Student Committee on Committees is taking a slightly different approach to the selection process. · In previous years, the Committee has placed the bulk of its emphasis on the personal group interview; the application has been used merely as a means of soliciting names of interested students and the particular co~mittees for which they wish to be considered. We have judged, however, that the amount of useful information gained from these interviews, does not at all warrant the expenditure of time and energy required to coordinate, schedu'le, and conduct interviews for all applicants. Although we may from time to time conduct some personal interviews at our own discretion, for they can be informative in makii:tg final selections in some cases, our major emp·hasis, this year, will be upon the amount of information furnished to us by each student, in writing, on his own persona-l application. All of our selections are made contingent upon steering committee approval. _ We are interested, of course, in any kind af experience or specialization a student may have that helps to qualify him for appointment to a particular committee, but most of these committees are not the kind for which ''experience is a prerequisite. The mere fact, that as an applicant, one is a student of Union College, is a primary qualification. The Student Committee on Committees is responsible for selecting this spring the student mem~rs of all the College, faculty, and student committees appearing below. In view of the magnitude of this task, we will be employing all the information we have available to us about individual committees and individual students. We will be in communication with the chairmen of each of these committees, seeking evaluations of each of this year's student members and any general information pertinent to individual committees regarding criteria by -which we might select students for assignment to those committees. With the exception of these sources, however, ·our judgements can be made initially only on the basis of the content of each individual application. Hence, ·we do hope that serious consideration of this fact will be reflected in th~. applications we receive. It will be difficult, for example, for u·s to consider any individual application more seriously than it appears the applicant has treated it himself. We have taken pains to compile the following information about the committees to which we must make appointments next term. It includes a general stiiiement of each committee's responsibilities and, wherever possible, information about the particular activities individual committe~s have recently been engaged in. Following the summary of each committee is a list of its current members (for various reasons, the number of places on each committee - in parentheses following its name - may not be equal to the number of members listed). We do encourage interested students to make an effort to contact any of these individuals about their respective committees, for they will most likely be better equipped to provide a tnore in-depth understanding of their particular committee. For additional information concerning this matter of the selection of students to committees, please feel free to contact any member of the Student Committee on Committees or the Student Activities Office (370-6118}. Application blanks for all committees will be avaialble in the Student Activities Office, Old Gym Hall, during the ninth week of this term. They are due back in the Student Activities Office on Monday, April IS, 1974. Student Committee on Committees Mark Young, chairman - 370-6579 Don DeCesare '74 - 370-6544 John Dolan '75 - 372-9716 Hank Bernstein '76 - 346-9973 Haniet Kaplan '77 - 370-6459 The Committee on Basketball seconds the motion. About C \ omm1ttees The information in parentheses following the name of each committee is its membership in terms of the number of faculty (F), students .(S), administrators (A), and staff (Sf) that sit on the committee. Th,e sizes and membership ratios of all the College and faculty committees· \~ere reviewed and updated as of the College Senate meeting of 2H \ ovember l97J. * * * * Admissions OIF, 6S, 2A): In selecting membership for this committee, the College seeks to represent the hroad divisions of academic disciplines which students may elect. The committee advises on the criteria observed in accepting ~tudents and· passes upon applications for admission. Last ) ear the committee m'et seven times to first discuss pelicy matters and then to vote on individual admission cases under those policy decisions. The committee is also empowered to review both the procedures and decisions concerning admission. Faculty: Kilburn; D. Bittleman, 1· ise nst ad t, Cia Ian to wi.cz, Hartwig, Hoffman, Kenney, Maddaus, McKeown, Scheafer. I cstroet. Students: Marc Horowitz. Kathleen Hurley. Peggy Miller, Lllyn Roth, Lois Timms. Administrators: Admissions Staff (ex officio). * * * * Academic Opportunity i 3 F. 2S , I A): T h is ~ubcommittee of the Admissions Committee is autonomous on matters related to the administration of the Academic Opportunity program. · The committee works closely with the administrative offices on regular term and summer programs for ~tudents whose formal preparation for admission differs I rom that expected of the entering dass. Faculty: Bick; Aubrey. Danchak, Ling, Pearce. Walker. \orman Walhek. · Students: Aaron ('lindinin. I >on DeCesare, Milton Herring, Patricia Truax, Alonso Wilson I >ebriano, Robert E'arney. · Administrators: Maras, L. Moore. Reid, M. Smit'h. Wylen, I >avis. * * * * Athletics (4F, 5S. 2A): This committee may. at its discreti{)n, review the policy pertaining to intramural and intercollegiate athletics, physica I education, and rccrea tiona! opportunities at the College, \ind is expected to make recommendations. This year the committee has made a concerted effort to shift the emphasis upon athletics at Union College from the varsity and intercollegiate· level to programs and facilities that will be more attractive and oeneficial to the College comri1unity as a whole. Extensive \ork has be'en done bv the committee in p.lanning ~ new htiilding to be built s<.>me time \\ ithin the decade as an addition to the Fieldhouse. Faculty: Kershner; Allison, Ilarlow, · Sheffer, Nancy Walbek, Werner. Students: James Bacharach. John Husterud, William Garofalo. Donna Hincher. Lewis lnsler. Richard Thau, Sanford Wilder. Cindy Wolfson. Administrators: H. Martin, M. Smith. • * * * Budget and Pr-iorities (·oF. 3S. JA): This committee, \hose chairman is elected by and ft<Jm the faculty members of the committee, is responsi·ble for keeriing campus constituencies informed on ·budgetary matters. rhe committee does have acce-ss to all non-J}ersonal da•ta concerning the financial operation of the College. U reviews annually College priorities and consults hoth whh appropriate offices of the administration .and' the Board's Finance Committee, the Committee on .Env·ironmental Resources and Campus I >evelopment. ancl the Long l{ange Planning Committee. Its recommendations, if any, are submitted to the College Senate. Faculty: Schick; Allison, Klemm.· Mart in, N icho.ls, Shanehrook, Stineback, Thimm. Students: Helen Billa.k, Barbara ( ianey. Ala, A Reisch, Brian Shoot. Administrators: ·Enteman, I ..ichterman, Timberlake. * * \' * ('omputer Science (6F. 4S, 2A).: To make most effective use of a relatively new technical resource, this committee \\ orks with the Director of the Computer Center on program. In the absence of an actual ··Department of ComputeT Science,\ the committee 1s responsible for organ1zmg rriorities within, and fhe services provided by, tile Computer (·enter. I he committee does work on curric:ula, courses, requirements, and scheduling relating to the interdepartmental programs in Computer S<;ience. Last year the committee arranged seminars in ( 'omputer Science and specifically concentrated on the problems of ~tudent usage that present themselves as increasing numbers of students begin .to use the facility. The Student Committee on Committees may select only two of the four students that sit (.)n this committee - one each from Center I and Center II - and they may not be Computer Science majors. The other two ... tudents are elected annually by and from the Computer Science majors in the College. Faculty: T. Schwarz; Cutter, Hartwig.. l.u rie, Newman, Schmee. Tornga, G. Williams. Students: James Alherg, Jon Silverman. A dmi11istrators: Daniel. * \: * * (·urricular Affairs !XF. 5S. 2A): This committee advises the College Senate on all matters concerning academic prqgrams at the College. It may receive materials from other committees (particularly its own ~uhcommittees on Comprehensivt~ F ducat ion and Educational Innovation). departments, and. special committe~s; it may initiate its own recommendations concerning curricular matters. Its decisions on individual course proposals are binding unless the ( 'ollege Se,nate overrules. The ( 'ommittee also participates in the process of determining the num her of positions available for tenure. Faculty: Fairchild; Goodheart, Ketchum, LeClerc, Moorhead, Styles. Thomas, Ullmann, l J ndcrwo(ld, Wells. Students: Judy Dein, Thomas W. Hartman, Lisa Kaston, Cheryl Miller, John Perlstein. Administrators: l.ichterman. Schillidt, Wylen. \' * * * ( · omprehen~ive Education f4F. 4S, I A): A subcommittee <,f the Curricular Affairs Committee, the Comprehensive Fducation Committee is responsible for policy affecting development and. operation of the \.'11tire program rn Comprehensive Education. After consultation \\ifh the Curricular Affairs Committee, the committee submits specific, proposals relative .to Comp. Ed. to the College Senate for approval. . F;lcuHy: Tho.-nas; Berk, lngvar~son, Lambert. Ludwig. · Students: SusaR B.reehe.r, ( 'harles Luxenberg, Pamela Ya,rus, Pam~la Howard. Administrators: Wylen. * * . * * Ed.:u:ational i~novation (.fF, 2S, OA): A:rtother sub~ommittee of the Curricular Affairs ~ommittee, this group investigates and proposes to rhe ( 'ollege Sen!tte creative. unusual programs. The corilrl-littee spent c(ll1siderahle time last ·year arnvmg at what it felt the functiow t)f the Committee should !_lc and establishing ·<! (ra-mewQrk \itliin which to work. In his report at the end of the year, the L'ommittee's chairman indicated. \A rough consensus was that, aside from discharging tasks assigned to it hy the· Senate, the committee should {a) try and !,!enerate from within its own member-ship .innovative approaches. to ed·ucation in any of its many aspects, a.nd {h) serve as tme forum for the evaluation of innovative proposals fn>m \\ ithout. wit·h the responsibility to propose formal action for such pro-posals as it deemed wmthy of lmther consideration!' hut in coric·lusion the chairman did rrote that. \Union College is nowhere ncar readv for educational innovation. . simply because it makes little sense to try and cxht,rt members of the faculty (and students) to think of and come forward with anything educationallv innovative which, in the l)et, ~ill not cost' .any ad\ditional faculty . time or, L\quivalently additional funds.\ I he committee . <J.id, 'last · year, compile and produce a very l'omprehensive report on the issue of grades in general, including proposals of alternative grading ~ystems with arguments both pro and con. F!lculty: Zimmerman; P:. Allen. Birecka, Maciariello. Students: Linda ·Burns, Reed Russell. Administrators: none. * * * * Environmental Resources and Campus Development · (4F, · JS. I A. 2Sf): ·rhis committee was formed at the ( 'ollege Senate meeting of 2S '\ o'vember 1973 by consolidating the l)ld Environrilental Resources Committee and the old Committee on Campus l>e'velopment. It reviews the conduct of the College regarding its impact on the environment; it \I orks toward the development of l'Ourses and seminars related to eliVironmentaJ concerns; it plans lor the application of existing resources, personnel. and facilities of the College to the abatement of l:egi(>nal environmental problems. I ast year the Environmental Resources Comillittee concentrated their efforts in three major areas: I) drafting rccommendafio,ns for an l·nvironmental Studies component for the· I ransdisciplinary \Program. 2) investigating the \dog problem.\ and 3) considering topics related to environmental studies at Union College which might be added to l'Xistiilg courses ·or .presented as new courses. I he committee is· also responsible for making recommendations to the College Senate or the Trustee Committee nn Buildings. Plant, and lquipmt;-nt. \\'ith the assistance and advice of the Director of Security and Safety. the com111iitec is responsihk for regulatlv ~uneying the conditions of wotk· apd rcsidcrrce for all Illelllhers of I I f) ! I the Coil devel<~p procedure~ \ isitors t( make l'ec College program. these llJat I Faculty: He Vier, · llarlow. Zimmerm• Studen Clifford. :>'1 oessi ng~ :lack Ros Peter T: Andrew \ Admin Decker, L Staff: L HI <4F. 2: committet nomina tio the Specia Honorary t.he rej candida,t< honorary Committe correspon to prepar -.ubmilted honorary pa rticipat' ( 'omm itte H onora.ry \l:ar hy s I rustees :o Fa cult~ (iati. Lot Studen l.alll'ence Admin l.iais( (4F. 1esponsibi to a.ct as <: on anylhi1 -.erves to .. pike th~ lo unda tio committe< procedur ~:\ alua tior L'<llllpUs distributi< tlc~asions niajor posts oc academic L'Oillllli He' ( lor rcvie• faculty L\Ommitte' to dei L'mployed new ad111i past vcar. itselr\ in s proposed procedll a d m i n is t President procedurt appointm Provost, , the assis1 'earch co of Sttidc :rrranged govermi n, its recom report. 4) the Cr committe l'hainnen committe size and 5) Ill HW: inherent 'tudents and th' (·om mit-:

CONCORDIENSJS. Thursday, March 14, 1974 Page5 the College community, to develop security and safety procedures affecting them and , isitors to the campus, and to make recommendations to the College Senate on (lO.Jicy, program, and facilities related to these matters. Faculty: Huntley, Tobiess~n; BeVier, · A Bittleman, Evans Harlow, lewis, Mittal, Zimmerman. Students: Paul Conn,ors, Clifford. La.ngweiler, John . ~'1 nessinger, William· PoeHmitz, ;lack Rosko, Mary Beth Smith, Peter Tavino, Fred Umane, Andrew Walsh, Alfred WeH. Administra:tors.: Carman, Decker, Usher, Welch. Staff: LeRoy, Mills. . * * * *\ H onotary Degrees <4F. 2S. lA): This College committee is responsible f{}r m)minations· (milt the faculty to the Special ·rrustee Committee ·On ll onorary Degrees and also for the r e com men dati o n o.f · ~:andidates for appropriate honorary degrees. Annually, t:he Committee meets with the ~:ortesponding Trustee Committee to ,prepare a· list of names to he -.uhmitted to the Pres.ident for honorary degrees. It also partiCipates with the Trustee Committee in the selectiqn of an J I onora.ry Chancellor for each /ear hy sending to the Board of ·1 rustees a list of ~uggested names. Faculty: Ev.ans; BeVier. Gado. ( iati. Loughlin. Students: Parnela R oward. l.auFence Primack. Administrators: Pearson. * * * '* Lillison and Governance (4f. 3S. lA, 2Sf): The 1csponsihility of this committee is to a.ct as a corporate ombudsman .. n anything in the College. lt also -,erves to investigate rumors and -,pike those that are without loundation. In addition, the wmmittee. establishes the proper procedures for systematic t:\aluat:ion of-administrat<)rs on l'<Utlpus and arranges for the distrihution of its results. On occasions when vacancies for n'i<;jor academlc~administrative posts occur at the level of academic 1 deans or above, the l'ommittee determines procedures proposed a procedure by which these stu~ents might be selected h.y their con!!tituency, and 6) it recommended amendments to hoth the Faculty Constitution and the By-Laws of the College Senate bringing each document up to date. Faculty: W. Schwarz; Board,. Elliston, Parrlilio. Students: · Alan Gnessin, 'ITnwthy McCabe, Nelson Wei!, Peter Weiner. Administration: Entema:n. Staff: Matusak, Neuhaus . ·*· * * * Library (6F. 3S, OA): In art effort to represent . the various academic d'isciplines within the Col'lege, this committee advises the Librarian on librcu)' policy. l'n the past, the l'ommittee has dealt with isswes such as: l) requests for more hooks in the library and for the l'eplacem~nt .of ho.oks lost, niissing, or stolen, 2) tneans· of financing t·he acquisition of more books·, 3) the employment of proctors to quiet npisy students, 4) solut.ions to the problem of t;heft of book~ from the Hbrary, 5) adequacy of lighting in the library. 6). problems of noise gc!'Jerated hy radiators, lack of ~·arpeting. etc .. 7) orientation and ·iocation of facilities in the library. X) . setting of priorities for ~:xpenditure of funds received by t h e 1 i h ta r y , a n d 9 ) 1·ec0111mendations concerning departmental allocations of funds lor the purchase of hooks. The committee a !so advises the ( 'ollege administration on policy concerning the College Bookstore. Fact,lty: Hansen; Bristol. Craig. heund. Hull, Pearce. Tolan. Students: Meredith August. llunt Eggleston, Carol Meyer. * * * * Special Events (5F. 3S. lA): Upon request of the President. this committee makes recommendations and assists in pianning for special l'Vents. In providing programs at the College 'for a·n academic year. the committee assumes responsihi!.ity for the selection and arl'angement of such programs, for hospitality to performers, and for alerting the rative offices ,,..,:r ;,Sf Can !join too? photo by Leslie Steineker · lor review of the candidates hv faculty and students. Th~ l'Ommittee also reserves the right to deiet'mine procedu.res l'mployed in creating and filling new administrative positkins. This past vear. the committee involved itsel( in six major activities: l) it proposed and iniplcmcnted a P roc e d u re for eva l ua.t in g administrators. 2) at the President's request, it set up procedures for the permanent appointment of the then-Acting Provost, and later organi7ed. with the assistance of the Pmvost. a '>ean:h committee for a new Dean of Stlidents.. 3) the committee :rrranged ~for a review of the new governance svstem and included its recommendations in its <mnual report. 4) it conducted a l'eview ()f the College and faculty L'ommittees. hy polling their l'hairmen, as · to what each mmmittce thought its respective size and cnnstituencv should he, 5) in awmertess of tile ,prohlems inherent in assign-ing graduate .,tudents to the College Senate and the <iradtlate Studies Conln'\,iHee. the comrnittec nn the arrangements necessary for lectures and concerts. It may a is<) review the policy concerning the Hffering of such programs. The committee doel! discuss the range nf religious activities appropriat~ to the College and may make recommendations concerning llther actiVIties which may ... up:rort the religious activities of the campus. Faculty: LaBarba; Curtis. (iadn. Gohle, Stevenson. C. S\lart7. Tidm<lrch. Students: Carol Meyer. David Strom. \dministrators: Johnson. \' * * * Student Aid f4F .. 1S, 2A): This committee reviews College policy relative to the awan,ling of financial aid to -.tudents: Recommendations for l'hange. if any. are forwarded. in the appropriate form. to the < 'ollege Senate fnr action .. l·n addition. tl\c Committee assists the Dir'ector 6l Swdent Aid in the ddermination of individual aid pnck~1gc.s. Student memhers of the Committee participate on!Y in decisions involving matte.rs of policy, not in the determination of individual ~twanls. Faculty: Aubrey; Girdner, Kent, W. Schwa·rz. Students: Barbara Burek, Marcia Cantor, Fred Lanes. Administrators: Maras,· I imherlake. Faculty Committees Advisory Committee on Promotion. Salary, and Tenure ( 5f:'. 3S, 2A): The faculty members of this committee are elected hy the faculty an_9 join \ith the Dean <lf Fact1lty and the Provost in reviewing the criteria for p rornotion, salary increases, and the granting ~lf tenure. The L'oinmittee also reviews the c\ atuations submitted by d'ep.a.rtme:nt chairme-n 1 n preparat,hln of instructional -.alaries for a subsequent year. rhe committee receives and makes recommendations to· t'he President on all requests for promotion and tenure. The ~tudent mentbers of the wnim itree. arc merely advisory on general policy and do not participate in the committee's consideration on individuaL cases. Faculty: Russ; Gati, Potter, Reece, Roth,. Stinehack. Students: Mark Belsky. Herta Hershkowitz. Nancy Kessler. Administra-tors: Enteman, I ichterman. .. * \' * Standards: This committee consists of the following three semiautonomous subcommittees. Ho11or~_and Fellowships (4F, · 2S, OA): This su bcom mi ttee has the responsibility of reviewing the evolving pattern of College ~nd departmental honors programs within the · College, and of recommending to the faculty changes to guarantee parity in these programs within the College. The committee, from time to time, also reviews the College's fellowship programs and policies and makes appropriate recommendations. Faculty: C. Swartz; Freund, Moorhead. Nichols, Phaup, Russ. Students: Lois Brustman. David McCourt. John Perlstein, Richard Sommer. * * * * Study Abroad and Foreign Students (5F.4S,lA): This subcommittee \\as formed at the College Senate meeting of 28 November 1973 hy consolidating the old ~ubcommittees on Study Abroad and Foreign Students. The committee receives and evaluates applications from students at the College who wisn to study ahroad, either under one ·of the -.pecial .programs offered by the C<)lJege or by individuaf arrangement. It is also charged witlt developing new programs of studv ahrnad. ri1e wmmittee also reviews the credentiah of those foreign students seeking to enter Union College. Faculty: B.ristol, Klemm; Calabria, lngvarsson, .Jancar . Panlilio, Schmee, Weick. Students: Hans Black, Richard Lyness, Fabien Michel. Thomas \Varger. * * * * Standing of Students (oF.4S.4A): This subcommittee is resp()nsihle for reviewing the records of those students receiving less thatt a satisfactory term average. It also deals at length with student petitions ft'>r readmission and for exceptions or modifications in graduation re4u irements. I he Committee may review those College policies affecting, aild those criteria determining, the academic standi.ng of students at the College. The Committee is l1H rtic.Ularly charged · to re• examine, at regular intervals, the Committees is charged with criteria for Dean's List standing selecting, each year, a sophomore and graduation honors. The for assignment to the Social student · mem.bers of the Committee to be trained during Committee may pmticipate only his junior year to be chairman of on mattc::rs of general policy and the Committee in his senior year. are ex c I u de d f.r.o m the Any sophomore applicants to the Committee's considerations on Social Committee interested in! individual cases. • this commitment will please so· Faculty: Bu'tzel; N. Allen, Kent, ·indicate on their appication. :-.;elson, Russ, Tobiessen. Students: Peggy Miller; Anne Students: B-ruce Downshrovgh; . Honvou:]oir'. I.ois Brustman, .John Glever, James Rosten berg,. Craig Jackson, Stephen. Lewis. .Judy Small. Frica Lorber, Jill Manning, Administrators: Lichterman, Daniel Miley, James Mori, Kelly M. Smith, Schmidt; Shupe, :-.;ewton, Fred Umane,, Jeffrey Wylen. Wisoff. Cause for another committee? Studen.t Comm'ittees College ('enter !5S): This COJTlm'ittee is empowered to set general policy in the operations of the College Center (Carnegie). Its purpose is to ensure the efficient running of the Center. acting as final arbiter in matters of the allotment of time and space. The Committee is l·harged with responsibilities involving student staffing m l'oord ination with the Office of H11ancial Aid and the Dean of Students, and, .further. to in\-estigate all pmsibilities for funding the operations of the College Center. Students: Bruce McLaughlin; I eslie Herman. Kathy Mitchell. !'li1aheth Pava. Richard Semble. \\'illiam U nderhiiL \' * * ·* Elections !5S): This · com rnittee is resp(lnsible for th.e arrangement and supervision of all College- \\ ide elections and referenda in \\ hich members of the student body participate. Included among these responsibilities are the dection held every fall for the ... election of the freshman representatives tn the Student Steering Committee ~nd the dection hdd every spring for the -,election of the balance of the -.tudcnt representatives to the Steering C(\mmittee and to the ( 'ollege Senate. Students: l-larry Lessin; Philip \kahes, John Dolan. Rosemary Rice. Steven Wayne. * * * * Social 11.2S): The purjlose of this wmmittec is to provide student- -,ponsorcd social and cultural activities and entertainment for the College community. in addition to. and in coordination \\ ith. that pmvided hy the fraternities on campus, the ( 'offee.house. and the rilm ( 'omtnittee. I he Student C(lmmittee on Student Life ( 5S): This committee is concerned with matters of student life in the fraternities and ·dormitories; it does not supplant the activities of the Inter- !· ratern ity Council. The Committee works closely and in coordination with the Dean of Students and the Director of II ousi ng. and may. from time to time. i·nvolve itself with the 'arious other student activities ;1 nd committees as they relate to tl ifferent aspects of student life. Just this year, the Committee has assumed the responsibility of organl7lng. implementing, and maintaining a 24-hour information service through the College's switchboard telephone n umher. Students: Stewart Abramson; (ierard Comatos, Lauren ( inrdon. Judith Male, Lynn Sutton. Mitchell Weisburgh. * * * * Tax I .~S): This committee is responsible for the distribution of the Student Tax Fund, collected each term through the Student :\ctivities Fee, to various student organizations. Any organi1ation \\ ishing student tax subsidy must annually submit a budget to this committee. On the basis of these budgets and the criteria set by itself and the Student Steering ( 'ommittee, the Tax Committee allocates Student Tax funds. contingent upon approval hy the Student Steering Committee. It may also recommend any changes in the Student Tax rate to the Steering Committee and the Board of Trustees .. The Student Committee on Committees must -also appoint, each year. a sophomore to the Tax Committee to be the secretary of the Committee his junior year and automatically chairman of the Committee his senior year. In applying for the Tax Committee, please indicate which position it is that is being applied for, viz. secretary or at- large representative. Students: John Nicholas Coward, Thomas Burbank. representative. Bridger; secretary; at-large

Page6 CONCORDIENSIS, Thursday, March 14, 1974 Concordy Sports Union Basketball Power: '70.'71 r~ord: 18-3 gd: TEDISCO,jr. gd: SHAMES, sr. fwd: 'DOYL:Ii:, so. fwd: W ALKER,so. c: BACHER, so. &bench hero: '71-'72 '7~-'13 '73-'74 . re~o: 19-3 rec.: 16-7 rec.:.:Z0-4 .. TEDISCO, sr. · ABBA,jr. . CARMODY, ir· · C'MODY-ABBA, so. DILLON/DENIO, jr./fr. illE~lO, so. PaSt, Present, and Future . UOYLE,jr. DOYLE, sr. KELLY, so. . WALKER,jr. WALK>ER,.sr. . ABBI\./COMBS,srs. BACHER;jr. . BACHER,Jr. •; GUGLIOTTA, Jr. by MARK W. MINDEL For the basketball. connoisseur the best thing about coming to Union four years ago was that he did not know what was ahead. lhe '69-'70 squad was a dismal 7- 15, despite the fabulous show- manship or sophomore Jim Tedisco; wrestling was the winter rage. Then, behind the fallen curtain of summer the scenery was quietly changed. Princeton's Gary Walters and Bill Scanlon from Springfield arrived, and the combination more than clicked. lhe team began to play with the intelligence and class of the Ivies. \~hile show.ing a very physical ruggedness and toughness. I )efense became the pride of the team and the standard which other schools would strive for. To \V alters, drawing a charge was more important than scoring. It ~as this demanding defense <!round which Walters molded his team. I he team began as three inexperienced :sophs, and a one- man show, but t'he so-called \talentless\ Mike Doyle, \clumsy\ (leoff Walker, and \black-sheep\ lorn Bacher together with a disciplined Tedisco found out that \defense\ mear:~t dedication and that winning was merel'y a tangent, yet pleasant, side effect. l'he \Walters Gang\ was primarily local. and area fans hegan to flock the old dirt;-filled, fenced-in arena to watch Union ''dust off' opponent after upponent. And the spirit which this lX-3 team infected the \:ampus with carried over onto the next three seasons just as Walters new-found defensive hustle did. Both kept improving and growing. Dream Team 1971-'7.2 saw the \dream team.\ Bill Carmody, a scarecrow-like 'ophomore, added defensive ha Ia nee and a scoring punch in replacing Dave Shames. The team lost two early games due to injuries but still beat mighty Bridgeport, and then bounced hack to surprise favored Siena and Albany State in the Christmas Tourney. I he team went on to win 15 !.!might games before losing to Rochester away in their finale and finished with a record 19 wins. And it was a stunned and hitter ,quad which played without the incentive of an NCAA bid due to a \escac ruling, yet managed to hom b tourney-hound Hartwick hy 20 points and thrill 4000 fans ~,.~E -~~ ·~''' .. es··c ... ~ 'J\tU~\. ~I · Pizzeria 4:1 78.3 ALBANY ST. NO DELIVERY CHARGE WITH TWO PIZZAS WE DELIVER UNTIL MIDNIGHT CaD 374-5600 JAKE LIPSTEIN'S UQUORS Tel.374-llll Mon.·Sat. 9 a.m.-9 p.m. 464 State St. \\.hen T edisco bowed out at home against poor Hamilton. Given a twenty minute reprieve from team duties in the second half, Tedisco put on an amazing show, while scoring over . 40 points and keeping everyone hut Mrs. Badger on their feet shouting praise. 1 n proof that basketball fever had stung the campus over 500 lana tics crowded Chi Psi · fraternity at 4 a.m. to laud their returni~g heroe.s from the Rocheste~ loss. The ghost of Tedisco did not haunt the '72-'73 team, but injuries to Cannody and replacement Luke Dillon, did. Hut the hard-nosed frontline trio of Doyle, Walter, and Bacher teamed with frosh Denio and :--.; Y U transfer Chuck Abba, (all five locals) to, accomplish more than anyone expected. Quattrochi shouts \WEO!\ l r nion finished second to Alhanv in the Christmas event, and then without Bacher, went on to stymie the Great Danes in the Albany-hosted ECAC tournament. Doyle played perhaps his best game in his finale, and Little Denio showed State's .I ohn Quattrochi what defense is all about. As people had been !>peculating, Walters stepped down (to his alma mater) and an untested Scanlon took over. Scanlon's record at Union, with freshmen teams, had been phenomenal, but this was a big ... tep. He was handed a team devoid of its starting frontcout line which had been playing together for. three years, and a hackcourt Which was questionable hoth experience and health-wise. ro sav Scanlon succeeded '' ould h~ understatement. He performed a more miraculous operation than even the carpenter '' ho .changed the Memorial Dust Bowl into a winter wonderland. With snph Denio as the only returning starter at his own position. Union was seeded last in the Christmas Tourney, and faced a luck and energy-plagued sched- ule which made the season seem more like 4 separate ones. But ~the Dutchmen placed ..,econd to powerful Siena in the tournament ahd went on to have the finest season ever put together at the school winning 20 games. lhe team reached its high point MCAT -OAT -GRE LSAT-ATGSB OCAT NAfL. BDS. , • Preparation for tests required for admission to graduate and profes- sion~ I schools · • Six and twelve session courses • Small groups *VoluminOus material for home study prepared by experts in each _field • Lesson schedule can be tailored to mee~ ind~vidual needs. lessons can be Spread ove.r a period of several months to a year, or for out of town students, a period of one week •Opportunityfor review of past lessons via tape at the center Special Compact Courses during Weekends- lntenessions . Summer Sessions STANLEY H. KAPLAN EDUCA'T'IONAL CENTER LTD. c212t 336-...5300 .12 ,r t175 Eat16tll·- a.ooklvn,N. Y u· (!ii16t 538 .t556 &.,.;.;. . • . DAYS. EVENINGS, WEEKEND& . . Branches in .Major Cities in U.S.A. :ht 'f1111<1ri116 ScAIHII will! lit~ Na#011wiM Repu,.fioll (Goldberg) (RoselYn) '(Underhill} (Rmyrnond) a ft. e r beat in g top-ran ked I htrtwick and later clobbering highly-regarded Tufts. Both games were won with super·ior coaching and disciplined play, and Union dese.rved its ranking in the NYS poll. 11 __ ...._ .... ~---·· ~------· ._ ... _...._.. ____ --~~----· - Capital District - CD Champs! Christmas Tourney - All-Tourney: runner-up,,to Alb. · MVP: Tedisco - all-tourney teain Doyle - CD runnerups to Alb. in o.t. - AJI, Tourney: - CD~~nnefllps to Siena ~ All·Tourney: Carmody reps.: Tedisco ·- ranked 2nd. Doyle, Abba - Sth In state - ranked lst for - ranked 3rd In state fu state - ECACCHAMPS! · 3 weeks, ended 2nd - NCAA snubbing - NCAA I NESCAC - All· Tourney: MVP: J)oyle Walker, Denio · - ECI\.C rlmnerups says\NO!\ · - AII·Tourney Gugliotta Somewhat developed hy Scanlon and court-mate Carmodv, and somewhat burned hv his absense on the All-tourney (;apital District team, Denio impmved by leaps and hounds from game to game. Walters' \'denv\ defense became the ··oe~io\ defeAse and for the 'first tcime since Walters attemp.ted to get t:he fans to appreciate Union's deliberate style, fans leaving the fieldhouse would be heard murmuring about the wizardry of Union's. super tandem backcourt. At their best, Carmody and · - Walters: NYS Coach of Year ' -Scanlon: NCAA R~gimial C<1ach of Year Denio, complementing each other's efforts, completely neutrali7e t.he opponents .attempts to set up an offense. TGss-Up Asked to compare this year's 1H-4 squad with the '71-'72 19-3 team. Gazette sportswiter Cecil Walker hedged. \Of the four n:ars of Union basketball ~·xcellence this vear's team has a little more offe~se. They sniff out ..,.. Super ·streaking Sigs with socks striding over the slippery surface. photo credit Bob Haynes the .good shots. and find Charlie ~ fLA <::_ u I (iug.liotta on more. hack doors _ ...; n • ~ than I've ever witnessed. And . , -R ~ Ut.~' N Sreve Kellv is one of the hest - \ · . '~ c.o~ IIIIer \Tc 10 - • . . · .. , ef.I!'Nt> l'orwards the school wtll ever see. '1\MtN\T~ w£ -- -- Levrs · O.•e's Mens. Sllop, .S State· St. · ~ · lheyshootoversoc:; .. have good~~\) LL~ q ~ punch rebounding agamst taller ·-;~~~~;;-i;·-·~~~~;~;~~;;;;;;~~;~~~~~~~~~~~il -.chm)ls ... hut that Tedisco team had a lot ·of firepower. It's a tuss up.\ I he 4uestion is debatable. but tllere may be an answer in next 1\eek's Concordy when senior Bill Ki lien pits the four ~quads against l:Uch other in a \Computer Tournament.\ It may be a mute roint, however, lor next year Gugliotta. Kelly, Carmody, a!ld I>ertio are all hack and wtth Walker and Pete Meola, two MOTHER FERRO'S \Featuring Italian-American Cusine\ 1115 BARRETT ST. SCHENECTADY 016-9554 1 re sh men. added on. they could · ~;::::;:ii:;iPiiiii=vo;;;i:;i;::iiii;::;:iip:iiiii=iP=ii\:iiiio:iii;::;:iir:;p;r;p~-.-.~~iji:ll.l he the best vet. l Colonie Motors, Inc. 2242 Central A~e. Schenectady 372•6441 \WE WOULD LIKE TO GE·r TO KNOW YOU\ Peyton Bowler • Harry Accurso • Joel Aroeste Colonie Motors Used Car Dept. HOT LINE: 374-2147 During this critical period of waiting in long gas lines, accomplishing the essential day to day tasks is not very inspiring. We would like to help ease some of these burdens in order to lighten the problem. We offer the largest selection of small and medium size cars in the area, providing you with better gas mileage and more car for your money; which is inspiring. Colonie Motors, Inc. also provides other serv.ices which make it advantageous for you to own one of our cars: SATURDAY SERVICE 16 MECHANICS- LESS WAITING FINANCING VICO INSURANCE- GOOD RATES COURTESY BUS LARGEST PARTS DEPARTMENT IN AREA : . \ I I I l ' ihe E Reha:bilit World F Bishop G from the This F at the Stt The St Service t this week activities must be s In cele the Beta P.S.K. ;il on, Frida~ all are ir Saturday beginninl Summ~ Watkins include experime concerniT Summer. Extern: 7:30p.m. the two· end of th Anyon Kappa fc Breakfas1 at $200 f dinnersn Anyon please co The C Student\ at 346-54 An ov Geneva i course in and will Further i the Cent State, Ke *3 Wha interestec March 1: communi informal 9973. Anyon to return Phi 0. March 1: you can 1 Don't Gallery .i There College ' Strauss I Coffee admissio Film I evenings Dr. Be part oft Center)£ ,. ........... r\ny (student they can two (2) against t piayers, wager a Kevin Weisbur

CONCORDTEWSIS, Thursday, March 14, 1974 Page 7 BLIT·HER 'fhe Bridge Center of Schenectady, Drug Treatment and Rehabilitation Program at 70 Union Ave. will present the Joyful World Folk Group in concert on Wed., March 20, at 8 p.m. at Bishop Gibbons High S0hool. Tickets are available at the door or from the Center, 346-127'1. * * * * * ·This Friday is the 'last day in Which to get senior announcements at the Student Activities Office. * * * * ·* The Student Life Committee is instituting a 24-hour Information Service tied in with Unioh's centrex number (370~600~). Starting this week, anyone calling that number will be able to fmd out any activities happening on campus. If an activity Is to .b.e. inclu~ed, it must be submitted to Mrs. Marra at the Student Acttvlttes offtce. * ·* * * * In celebration of Phi 'Sigma Kappa FY:aternity's Founders' Day, the Beta {Union College) and Gamma Tetarton (RPI) Chapters of P.S.K. are co-sponsoring a B~nd .Party in the R~I ~tu~ent Union on. Friday, Ma-fch 15, from 11 p.m. to 2 a.m. Admtsston Is free, and all are invited. The celebration moves to the Union campus on Saturday nite, March 16, when Phi Sig will ,present a Band Party beginning at 9 p.m. featuring \Warm Grass.\ Free beer oli tap! * * * * * Summer studies in environmental courses at field stations in Watkins Glen and Pine Lake are--open to undergrads. Courses include parasitology in .aquatic animals, bas.ic limnol?~· experimental limnology, and physical oceanography. lnqumes concerning the courses, tuition, and housing should be addressed to SummerDirector, DDFL; Houghton House,. Corning, N.Y., 14830. * * * * * Extemporaneous speech competition will be held on April 5, at 7:30p.m., in SSOJ6. The Goodrich-Duane Prize will he awarded to the two best speakers. Entrants must notify Prof. Kilburn by the end of the term. * * * * * Anyone who would like to join the meal plan at . Phi Sigma Kappa for spring term should contact Steve Sedlak at 370-'6~91. 8reakfast, lunch, and dinner are available Monday through Fnday at $200 for the term, lunch and dinner are available for $175, and dinners. may be had at $125 for the term. * * * * * Anyone wishing to take meals at Delta Upsilon for spring term please contact the steward at 346-9776. . * * * * * The Coffeehouse presents the Finals Freebee, a showcase of Student Talent on March 22. If interested in playing, contact Doug at 346-5405, or Rich at 346-9211. * * * * * An overseas study program on the United Nations System in Geneva is sponsored by Kent State. The major po~tion o\ the course involves study at the European center of the Umted Natlons, and will take place from August 19 through December 21, 1974. Further information and application forms can be obtained from the Center for International and Compatative Programs, Kent State, Kent. Ohio 44242. The application deadline is April30, 1974. -·~·~~~- .. ~ -· ~-\7~·~\\ .-.·---~ . -~- -.~·. if( -*~- -~~ \* . *\ \.._ . ·-i'\- • • .. ~ \ ....... *3 What does it mean to be a man? If y()u are curious or interested, there will be an informative meeting on Monday night, March 18 at 8:30p.m. in the Hale House Lounge for Men in the community, concerning consciousness raising. For further information, call David Boggs at 377-9742 or John Brewer at 346- 9973. * * * * * Anyone who picked up papers in Mrs. Marra's office is requested to return them. * * * * * Phi Delta Theta will hold a Band Party at 9 p.m. on Friday, March 15. With plenty offree beer, you should have a great time, if you can find Lenox Rd. Placement News Senior Bic:llogists, Biochemists, Social Workers - On Tuesday, March 19, 1974 the Community Health Educlltion Service of the Albany Regional Medical Program is planning a Capital nislr ict Health Services f:rnployer•s F>ay from 10:00 a.m. hl 5:00p.m. in the Colonie Room at Colonie Center. At least 25 hospitals and nursing homes from Xor~heastern New York State will he represented and are anxious to talk about positions with graduating seniors. Although 99 percent .of the jobs are for nurses, d.ental hygienisis, and physicaltherapists, there a, ... curren~ly three openings for biochemists, three for B.S. 'in Hiology and two for social \\orkers -(although an M.S.W. is prefeHed, B.S. and B.A. degree holders will be considered). * * * * * Chemists; Biologists, Physicists, (;eologists ~The State Department of Civil Service will give a written examination for Professional Careers in the Natural Sciences on May II, 1974. Trainee salary - $10, I 18. You must apply by Aptil 8, 1974. Obtain information and applications at Placement Office; Schulman Speaks fonti11ued from Page I Shulman. These factors have produced a system of U .S.·Soviet relations along seven planes, with varying degrees <Jf detente achieved. These are I, nuclear arms competition, where little progress has been made, 2, convent,ional arms. where the situation is unstable and danger imminent, 3, political c<Jmpetition, where some competition has continued, 4, economrc relations, where competition remains, but where increased cooperation has occured, 5, cultural relations, artists, tourists and student . exchange programs, where progress has been made, but restricted by the asymmetries -of ·the two societies, yet progr.ess has heen ''substantial,\ 6, functional cooperation, science space environment, where uneven progress has been made, and 7, ideo logica I competition, a plane of competition that the Soviet Union continues to insist on, in order to keep the party in power. Partly because of the uneven relaxation of tensions on the above levels, a relationship that does not progress smoothly exists. The results of the Middle East has been to \scale down overly optimistic expectations of d etents.\ Prof. Shulman suggests that what is happening is \limited detente\ or stage one of detente. The limits of detente are the codification of political . . c o o p e r a t i o n b e t we e t1 superpowers. The main objective of this limited detente should be elimination of the threat of nuclear weapons and nuclear war which is in the best interests of nodi.- nations. Improving economic relations, which the Sov.iets \urgently\ l)t!ed, says Prof. Shulman, can be made contingent on Soviet policy, in . order to encourage moderation,. especially in the military and strategic arms sectors. Shulman sees the Jackson amendment, which ties improved economic relations to relaxed Soviet emigration policy as counter-productive and prefers individual and citizen protest to a direct government to government confrontation. The Professor sees a prolonged period of relaxed tensions as the best way to resolve the human rights question allowing forces within the Soviet Union to effect the needed changes. Courses Continued from Page 2 circumstances\ - each case rs decided on its own merit. All course withdrawals are initiated formally · with 'the student's adviser who, if he or she approves, will give the student a \drop\ slip or a note of permission. After the sixth week, the adviser should confirm that extraordinary personal circumstances exist. The or by mail or in person from the State Department of Civil Service: State Office Bldg. Campus, Albany, New York, .12226. * * * * * Summer Institute in Biomedical ·Engineering - From June 3-Aug. 2. '1974, for undergraduates with ·senior status by June, 1974 a stipend of $130/ week is available l'or 9 weeks. Application deadline is March 31, 1974, to Howard University School of Engin- eering/College of Medicine. See Placement Office for· Information. Municipal Personnel Tech- nician Trainee - $10,118. - One position in Schenectady County and one in the City of Schenectady are open. A candidate must have been a legal resident of N.Y. State for one year and of Schenectady County for 4 months, and must apply by March 20, 1974 to take the test on April 20, 1~74. See Placement Office or obtain application at the Office of Schenectady County Civil Service Commission, County Office 'Building, 620 State Street, Schenectady. * * * * * Senior Art Majors - State Civil Service exam for Junior Artist-Designer ($7,616) or Artist- Oesigner ($9.029) will be given May II. 1974; apply by April 8, 1974. See Placement Office for information by the end of March . * * * * * Fngineers (Mechanical or Flectrical March or June graduates) Engineering Fore man post ($11 ,820) at B. F. (ioodrich Tire Company is open. See Placement Office for info. * * * * * Positions are now available in ~ummer maintenance program gangs. starting May I. 1974. C(mtact: Harry E. Schultz :\ ss'istant Chief Engineer-Staff Delaware & Hudson Railway Co. 40 Beaver Street Albany, New York, 12207 :::::::::::::::::::=~==:~:::::::::::::~=~=::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::2!=: * * * * * ~!i! SPRING TERM ~:~: Don't forget the Photo Society Exhibit Match ll-16 in the New :;:; RE(;ISTRATION :;:; instructor of the course should be consulted, preferably before the formal withdrawal procedu're is initiated. The penultimate step is to secure the approval of the Assistant Dean of the College: the final step is to· turn in the completed withdrawal slip to the Office of the Registrar. LOWEST JET FARES TO EUROPE Gallery .in the Arts Building. ···· ···• * * * * * !;:; Spring Term classes will begin :;:; There will be a Mike Johnson concert sponsored by the Union :::: at 8:30 a.m. on Monday, April :::: · ;:;: 8th. Student schedules will be ;:;: College Christian Fellowship. Friday. March 15, at 8:00 p.m. m .. .. Strattss .Louncre. Free admission. !;!; distributed to College addresses !;!; \' * * * * * :;:; prior to the beginning of classes. :;:; C ff h F 'd t 8 30 Old Ch -1 50 cents ;:;: Students who do not receive a ::;:: 0 ee ouse - n ay a : p.tn. m · ape · :::: copy of their class schedule will ::::: admission. ···· h ···· ' * * * * * :;:; be able to secure a copy at t e ;:;: :·:· Alumni Gymnasium at 8:00 a.m. ·:·: Film Haps. presents Portnoy's Complaint Saturday and Sunday evenings at 7. 9, 11 p.m. Admission is $1.00. * * * * * Dr. Bennett will speak on \The Future of Electrical Vehicles\ as part of the Energy Series on Tuesday, March 19 in N210 (Science Center) at 4:30 p.m. ft111M111•1Maiiiiiiiii1UIIIIIIIIIII~IIIIIIIII Any women tennis players (students at Union) that think they can take two (2) games in· lwo (2) se.ts in a doubles game against two (2) male chauvinist players; and who are willing to wager a dinner, please contact Kevin Crawford or Mitch Weisburgh at 346-9582. ,.. .... - ....................................... ,. - DARI~ TREET 'Student Discount' (withi.D.) 2049 VanVranken Mon.-Fri. 6-9, Sat. 8-9 377-4261 :~;j on the first day of classes. ill! ;:;: Formal registration and :::! :;:; validation of I.D. cards will take :;:; !;!; place in the Gymnasium on ;:;: ;:;: Monday and Tuesday, April 8 ::;: ;!;! and 9. fFom 8:45 to I 1:30 a.m. :;:; ;!;! and from I :00 to 4:00 p.m. ;;:; :;:; Students should. report as follows: :;:; !:l:' LAST NAME REPORT :::: ;!;! A-E Monday morning ~!l! :;:; F- K Monday afternoon :::: ;:;: L- R Tuesday morning :;:; :;:; S-Z Tuesday afternoon ;:;: ~ . ~ :::· Students mav report at a time :·:: ;:;: other than above should classes :;:; ·:::: interfere. :;:; :;:; Schedules will not he made ;:;: :;~; ;1\ ailable nor registration ;~;j .;:;. permitted iif a student has not ;:;: ~· ;~;: 'L'ttled his srring term bill and ~~;j · t :::: a n \' o .t h e r o u t s t a n d i n g :::: IRIAIM'IWV.INIIIftiM\N\'\'IAIC!;i: ind~htcdness to the College. The :;!; !;!; Bmin.ess Oftice will handle late !;!; .,., . •.•, :::J·paymcnt of term htlls and resolve :::: !;!: hilling problems 111 the Old j;j; .,., ('I I \ :·:~ 1 ape . .:.:·· mi Completion of and changes in !l~i :::: schedules will be nandled at the :;:: ····• G . f · 8 45 •.•. :·:· vmnastum rom : a.m. to :::: ~!;: 4:00 p.m.. ex.cept for the noon ;:;: :::; hour. Frida v. April 12, is the last ;:;: !;!: dav for ·making schedule :;:; :::: ad fustrrtents. :::: i... .. F '!'' b .•.. :::: .. Pass- a1 · requests may . e :::: :i:: filed during the first three weeks :::; 147 JAY ST. 147 JAY ST, 1:l: nf the term. l~he deadline is April j;~: • •••••••••••••••••••••••••• ~::::' 26th. :::· N • ~ :~\~;:;:•:~:~:~:~=~=~:!:~:~:~:::~:~:~====:::!:::::::::::::!:::t:::::::!::::::::::::::::~:~~ So You Are Contemplating An \Incomplete\? Another regulation which many students and faculty are not aware of is the regulation governing the \lncompfete.\ After the 1973-74 Academic Register · went to press, a new regulation was passed by the College Senate which requires all course work in courses where \Incomplete\ was received to be made up by the end of the second week after the end of the term in which the \Incomplete\ was received. The \end of the term\ is the last day of th~ exam period or, if there is no exam perio'd, the last day of classes in a given term. Students \\ho qualify for an \Incomplete\ (usually given only under emergency conditions) should make arrangements with their professor for such action. Administrative approval is unnecessary, In truly exceptional circumstances the deadline for \Incomplete\ make-up work may he extended by the Assistant Dean of the College. Levrs Dave's Mens Shop 453 State St. · '(dawntGU~~A Sc:benectady) of any scheduled airline from from NEW YORK CHICAGO 1 187 1 228 One way to luxembourg through May 31 Effective for individuals on scheduled jets to Lux- embourg in the heart of Europe. SAVE $72 to $101 on overseas stays of over 45 days against lowest comparable fares of any other scheduled airline. SHOW INITIATIVE! SAVE MORE MONEY! Students can arrange their own Affinity Groups of 25 or more passengers and qualify for Icelandic's low- est-cost one-way affinity fares. No other airline of- fers one-way affinity fares. SAVE via Icelandic no mat- ter when you leave or how long you stay. SEE YOUR TRAVEL AGENT. Prices subject to change. To: Icelandic Airlines 630 5th Ave., N.Y., N .Y.l0020 (212) 757-8585 Send folder CN on Lowest Youth Fares to Europe 0 Name----~--- Street _______ _ CitY-------- State ____ Zip __ _ My travel agent is ___ _ ICELANDIC AIRLINES

Page8 CONCORD!ENS!S, ThlJrsday, March 14, 1974 Sports Garnet Lose to Brockport E.C.A.C. Finals 72-67 • In by HANK BERNSTEIN and BRIAN TUCKER E.C.A.C. Upper New York State Tournament; second place; Fr.iday night;. whipped Geneseo · State; 84~?6; 58% from fleld; many layups; free 1throw advantage; forced 29 turn overs;. pressure defense; Mody and Denio; potent . {Jffense; Gugliotta and Kelly; halftime 39-32; streakers; \excellent basketball for· first 30 rninutes\JScanlon); 17 point lead with 4 minutes left; reserves saw action; Gugliotta 9-10 from floor- 23 points; Leroy 17; Carmody J4; Abba 10; Denio 10~ Carmody 9 assists;, Brockport over Albany; :Player: G FGA FG % FTA FT% Reb.(Avg.) Asst. Pts Avg Gupiotta, Charlie 24 297 162 54.5 146 91i 67.1 207(8.6) 42 422 17.6 Jr., Huntington St~ •• N.Y. Kelly, Steve 24 237 liS 48.5 51 35 68.6 181(7.5) 30 264 J 1.0 So., Pt. Washing•on, N.Y. Carmody; Bill 24 225 104 46.2 48 41 85.4 60(2.5) 128 249 10.4 .Jr.,. Spring Lake, N.J. Denio, John 24 214 109 50.9 20 So., Melrose, N.Y. ll 55.0 48(2.0) 68 229 9.5 Abba, Chuck 23 201 84 41.8 46 31 67.4 104(4.5) 55 '199 8.7 Sr., Schenectady •. N.Y. Combs, Tom 24 113 59 52.2 22 15 ()8.2 80(3.3) 26 133 5.5 Sr., Penfield, N.Y. Raymond, Jon 11 45 19 42.2 18 8 44.4 31(2.8) 5 46 4.2 So., Milford, N.H. Dillon, Luke 19 56 20 35.7 14 9 64.3 8(0.4) 28 49 2.6 Sr., Worcester, !\lass. ·Crawford, Kevin 16 19 12 63.2 18 Jr., Cranston, R.I. 15 83.3 13(0.8) 7 39 2.5 Marcinowski, Ray 13 25 9 36.0 18 II 61.1 30(2.3) 29 2.2 So., Easthampton, Mass. Viniar, Dave 14 23 13 56.5 7 4 57.1 14(1.0) 7 30 2.1 So., Bronx, N.Y. Henson, Bill 16 26 H '42.3 7 4 57.1 15(0.9) II 26 1.6 So., W. Hempstead; N.Y. Gliizer, Mark 13 13 4 30.8 8 So., Jersey City, N.J. 5 62.5 4(0.3) 7 13 1.0 Union 24 1494 721 48.3 423 287 67.8 921(38.4) 415 1729 72.0 Opponents 24 1473 614 41.7 344 214 62.2 977(42.4) 232 1442 60.1 Dave Ricks .from Pt. Pleasant, N.J. clears 14' in the Pole Vault at the Union Invitational Meet last Saturday. Union won the Meet for the first time in the meets I .f$ year history. photo credit Leslie Steineker Swim Meet ( NION COLtEGE Intramural Swimming Meet 1974 Wed. March 20 4:45 p .J\11. 50 yd. freestyle - q'fying 50 vd. hutterflv 50 yd. freestyl~ 100 yd. individual medley (fly. hack, breast. free) 200 yd. medley relay 4 individuals (hack. breast, ny. free) Thurs. March 21 4:45 P.l\1. 100 yd. freestyle 50 yd. hreastst roke 50 yd. hackstroke 200 yd. free re Jay - ( 4 Individuals) Scoring of Points five contestants qualify for points lhe 50 yd. freestyle event will necessitate qualifying for final ,~wim off fot fst. 2nd, 3rd, 4th. 5th. Relays I st · 10 pts 2nd 6 3rd 4 4th 2 5th I Individual Events 1st 6 2nd 4 Jrd .~ 4th 2 5th I ~CAA rules used in judging of >troke. Minimum of 6, from a gi·oup to gain entry. points. Enter as many as you wish in any individual event .. two teams only in relay events. An individual may enter a maximum of J events. No one who has earned a Block lJ -,wim award at any time. or who \\as on Uniori Swim Team this ~ear is eligible. Entries will he taken in pool - 30 minutes prior to start of meet. Dutchmen/ Golden Eagles in ·finals; Saturday· night; SRO crowd; Garnet upset; first home loss; 72-67; nip & tuck; decided in fina·l minute; Feal close; half-time down 6; 47C/r from field; out- rebounded; tough officia,ting; calls could have gone either \lay; \nothing to be ashamed of-well fllayed\ (Scanlon); good (} both \\:ays; turnovers; good passing; won at foul line; clutch Panaggios rallied Brockport; Gug-game high 21 points; Kelly 16; Deni(l 12; Abba 10; Gugliotta on All l'o1,.1rnament team; finally over; season is done; 20-4 overall; most \\.ins ever~ fine campaign; no serious injuries; a little luck; great hunch of guys; ·sorely miss seniors; Ahha; Combs; DHlon; dedicated to basketball and their team members; . Abba-very versatile -- \Mr. Consistency;\ Combs great off hench -- sixth man \played very, very well;\ Oilhm leadership qualities · · \plavs with all the heart and desire you could want;\ Walters gone; ~ew Scanlon Era; maintain tradition; pride on carnpus; pride \Vithin team; one of the hest teams in state; next year even better! Graduating forward Chuck Abba pu.shes one in Friday versus f]eneseo. photo credit Ellen Radock Dutchmen Win Track Meet , by ALISON SLOAT - tlashed to a 5.5 win in the 50 yd. <i1eg Meyer's 4:34.4 clockiBg won t .•. Eighteen years ago the Union mitational was conceived; and mtil Saturday everyone else had ,\on it at wme time. except the Dutchmen. Then this year Union not {lnly won. they named with a 41 point victory and an eight point margin over second place Colgate's 33 point total. Springfield. the 1972 victors, sat third with 26 p{>ints, and Cortland. last year's winner. was out or sight wit!;, IX. Times were fast and distances -were great on the new fieldhouse ~urface. and as expected, many records bit the dust. or rather . tartan. Dave Moller. U. of R. ~ha ttered the old field house record, which he also held, when he flew to a 9:0 I .4 win in the two mile run. Shrader, of Albany, was well behind in second with 9: 10.1. and Charlie Duggan. Springfield. crossed third with 9:15.2. <iary McCarthy of Buffalo St. broke the long jump record lor the new surface with a leap of 23\ !\. Mark Lineweaver of Brockport was second with 22' 10-5 X.\ John DeStefano !(iok off to a 22' l-·:4\ leap, his season's he st.. hut only fifth place in the tough competition. t ·o-captai.n Dave Ricks soared over 14' for a new surface record in the pole vault. Paul Ksionzyk. dash bettering Mike Lawrie of his heat arid took more seconds Cortland and Jones. R,PI, at the off 11is personal hest. line. I he mile relay saw annther I he garnet two mile relay team, record shot as the Westfield St. C. Cutts. S. Jones, M. Mindel team joined fm a 3:27.6 win. The <lnd T. McCane. combined for the l'nion team, Dave Ricks, Jeff 11 in and a new record in 7:55.5. Broomes, Mark Sheuer. and Tim Cohwte was 'ecoml in 7;57.2. :\le('ahe came over for s~cond Senior Tim McCabe came 6ack place with 3:27.7. to s-hake off the competition and In the wotuen's events C,indy hu; 1 to a 1: 14.3 win for his Bartlett of Springfield sped· to a liirewell 600 vd. run in Memorial 1 ' in in the 4uarter mile and also heldhous.e. Fast heats anchored the winning four Tap contributed to fast times for relay team, t:heir time 1:29 .. l For runners as Clete Royer, Jim l 'nion. Nancy Nelsnn, Sue Harp. Catella •. Jess Broomes. and Paul Barb Dewey, and Carol Hill. Spence all turned in yualifying combined for ·a I :3R.X second. . time~ for the stages. · I his Saturday all qualifim; /\s the rivalry continues, lrom the (iarnet syuad will tra'Vel Muscle Mowery, let h>o 8 e a 49' to Cortland to compete in the New 1 0-W' l1eave for a win in the shot York State meet, after which put. once again bettering second practice for the '74 outdoor place Trunzo of Colgate-, this time 'caM>n wJII begin. hy a foot. Springfield's Charlie Duggan kicked in a 4: 14.X mile time for a \lin in the event. as S.iena's tevrs -Kenyan :-.uperstar, Joe D ,. M · Hukanshagiza. came across in aves· . ens Shop ct: 15.7 for second place. Although ., llfSJ St•te St. not a placing time, sophomore .......... Cd_o ... w ... n ... t_o_wn ... _._s_c_h.;;.enet;.;.;.. ;.;t;;;ad;;;Y::,· !.)-I \A QUIET EAR. .. A PLACE TO TALK\ THE Red Fox Inn ' ~:~:: Cortland .. and Chumas. ,::l Springfield. placed second and l PIZZA third with jumps of I~' 6\. In a .f_:;::.=~:~;.:; repeat of the week hefore. Dave FRIDAY& SATURDAY 5·12 P.M. I ander. Cortland, failed ·to clear It!; BUD BY THE PITCHER his statting height and was . 123 JAY ST. SCHENE. CTAD. y eli\mi na ted. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.'' :\-1 ilt Herring. hack in form, ~ :i;illJ FERRO'S PHARMACY 'STUOENi DISCOUNT' . 575 Nott St. 377~l0 ~9~ Maurice Graubart & Sons THI·S. IS HERSHEL. MAURiCE, AND WALTER GRAUBART AT GRAU13.'\RT & SONS. S.(:'HENJ:;CTADYS OLDEST FAMILY JEWELERS. WE VERY SELQOM ADVERTISE OUR REPAIR J?,EPARTMENTBECAUSE WE ARE KEPT BUSY MOS=f OF THE TIME wE'D !-IKE TO MENTION THAT WE OFFER A COMPLETE REPAili S!lRVk.E ON WATCHES AND JEWEI;.RY ITEMS. OUR WATCH R.EPAIRS ARE DONE BY 'EFFICIENT. HIGHLY SKlLLED WATCHMAKERS. AND OU!J. WORK IS GUARANTEED TO BE SATISFACTOR.Y. OUR REPAIR SHOP WI'flf OUR OWN JEWELERS AND DIAMOND SETfERS CAN PERFORM MOE;T JEWELRY ~~:¢:~~.. REMEMBE~ GRAUBAR:T & SONS FOR RELIABLE 166 JAY ST .. SCHENECTADY End Gb Flasl4 beak Be with' At tl! Oil ·] Terez reality i the way centers. age of I 1942 ar con den; Poen created found under AnothE have bt Charle! perf0r11 by thf Me mol perforr to Yo1 apart f million concet progra and is comml CantoJ perfon The descrit the hl Saw fJ ''Wh herded so-callE look m which l and h grown- queues human them, shouts saw oz me ado the vi!. hird~. saw th

End·of-terltl Sille Glassware Kits Flasks, condensers, beakers and inore! Dr. Bonner will meet with Students on Monday, March25in . Memorial Chapel at 4:30p.m. Bottle of glue with each purchase. At tlleOrg!!nie Lab One week only! ~cwh~m the Gods shall .destroy, they_(irst makefat.~' Anon. VQI. ~03, No. 16 · Thursday, March 21q 1974 35- Young Nazi Victims Steering Comm. Marches On - ' - - ·- New Social Chairman Tell of Dreams Chris Fink has been selected as · the new Chairman of the Social Committee. The Steeting Committee rendered its decision on Thursday, March 14. The decision came after weeks of pro- crastination and controversy. Fink was unanimously approved, following the recommendation of the Committee on Committees. The Committee on Committees is dominated by Steering Com- mittee membership, and its decision was contrary to Social Committee Chairman Peggy Miller's recommendation of Dan Miley. -by JUDY DEIN Terezin was called a ghetto. In reality it was a stopping place on the way to the Nazi extermination centers. 15,000 children under the age of 15 entered Terezin between !942 and 1944. All of them were condemned, in advance, to die. Poems, stories, and drawings created by these children were found and publisfied in I 964 under the title I Never Saw Another Butterfly. These writings have been put to music by Cantor Charles Davidson. They will be performed on Tuesday, April 9th by the Columbus Boychoir in Memoria:! Chapel. The date of the performance is significantly close to Yom ha-Shoah, the day set apart as a memorial for those six million Jews who died in concentration camps. The program will begin at 8:00 p.m. and is free to the Union College community. Jewish folk songs by Cantor Davidson will also be performed. The children's writings were described in the following way in the blurb ef the book I Never Saw Another Butterfly. ''When the children were herded with their parents .into the so-called ghetto, they began to look around the strange werld in which they were to live. Thel' saw and heard ever_vthinK that the grown-ups did: the endless queues, the funeral carts and the human beings harnessed to pull and painted; all this they described in their poems.'' The concert, under -the direction of Canadian conductor Donald Hanson, has been paid for by Union College. The evening's entertainment is 'CO- sponsored by Temple Gates of Sc-anlon O.K. them, the executions, and the -[;;;,'~.... ,, shouts of the SS-men. But thev _ 1!116:f~\'\1t;~ saw other things too: the green Coach Scanlon, Reuional meadows and bluish hills bevond \ the village Kates, the animals, the \coach of the Year'' bird~. the butterflies. And thev The National Association of saw things that grownups cann~t Basketball Coaches (NABC) has see: princesses with coronets, named Union College's Bill wizards and witches, insects with Scanlon its District II College human faces, a land of happiness Divisien \Coach of the Year.\ with cookies, candv and soda S~anlon, who led the pop. All this they ~ecretlv drew Dutchmen to a 20-4 season in his --- - · - first year as head coach, is one of ::·«· six regional winners who are in ~ Union College students the running for the N ABC's Jj hedged against changing ~~t~~~.al \Coach of the Year\ ~l the status quo, according S 1 29 k h j_'~_ •. :J_~:_; to .findings in the College can on, , too over as . ead , .. ~ S t p· II 869 · ' . .--. coach last fall after three years as lti ena e . 0 • students fi assistant to Gary Walters. A J.j responded to the m Springfield graduate, Scanlon is a f:i\ questionnaire. The results ~:] R_exfo~d. N.Y., native and, with ;m are: m hiS Wife and son, noW lives in :,·.·:.- @ till ~=~ Ballston Lake, N.Y. .-:·.·· K=» ill Preferred Gr~ding System 11 G t • i~ 41.5% ..• 5-point system ~ll . a 1 M 37.1% ... 8-point system ~ p Jj 147.22~ ... 012t·hpeorintsystem ll . romoted ~s:~ • ·70··. :::8~ . _ ~~$~ ?.*:~ o o I WJ ~f? Charles Gat1, a specialist in jj Do you support a@ ~ussian. foreign policy and the M b · h N. . . * mternat10nal politics of Central ~~ c ange Ill t e . ew England i'J Europe in the Department of ~i'.l Small College Athletic ffij Political Science, has been ill Conference rule which W~ promoted to Full Professor, the ~l prohibits post-season ir:f College_ announced today. The t~ thl f . · · . . ~ promotton of Prof. Gati to the @ aN . e IC compehhor~ • Ill !m highest academic rank is effective l w CAA and other similar *i Sept. l, 1974. t ~ A ournaments? b§ graduate of Indiana ~i 77.8% ... Yes m~ U_niversity, where he also. ~a~ned i1~~ 6.2% ... No ~& his doc~orate, Prof: GatJ Jomed :~:i~l 0 ~l the l:Jmon faculty m 1963. For ~~ 16.0% ... Don't Care j~fl three years he has been director of @. !@the College's Comparative ~ Preferred Calendar Plan ~ Communist .~tudies P.rogram. tJ. 44 5()1. T d't' . 1 PI ?t; Prof. Gat! IS the edttor and co- M · .-to... ra I 10na · an @j author of Caging the Bear· !il 7 .2% •.. Long WinterW~ Containment and the Cold Wa; tJ Vacation f-4· being published by Bobbs Merrill ~· . W. 43.5% ... Split Winted~~ this year, and is the editor and co- ~~~~ Term m author . of The Politics of !~~ 4.SM . D ·'t C ~~~l Modernization in Eastern • IO·.. on are :-:-:-~ E t b · d b p ~~=~ . urope, . o e Issue y raeger illl~mmm:~m:m~milili~l~~ml!~~*~~!:1~:1t:l:~!?~~l:~!~:j!~~m.::~ m 1974 · Heaven and Union College's Hillel organization. \\' Comm11nity Service Corps The Temple will be in charge of selling tickets to the community. All money collected will be contributed to the Temple Community Service Corps, a I o c a l Peace C orp.s - t y p e organization. The idea behind the program, according to the Service Corps, is to help \increase the rapport ,between the Jewish population of Schenectady, and the larger community of which we are a part.\ Because Fink was not a current member of the Secial Com- mittee, the Steering Committee was confronted with the problem The temple provides $50 per week for a few cellege students to work in the community during the summer. Some orga'nizations for which the temple hopes to provide workers are the Refreshing Springs Day Care Center, the Golden Age grollp of the JeWish Community Center. the Carver Community Center Day Camp, the Schenectady Volunteer Bureau, and the Boy's Club. of allowing a transitional period ' for the new Chairman. After ,, , requesting the resignation of . several Social Committee members, so that Fink could · serve under Miller until taking over the chairmanship, Steering Committee President Larry Brown .accepted that Fink would serve as the 13th ex-officio member to the Committee. UCoH Participation The College's participation in the April 9th program will enable a Union College student to work in the Temple Community Service Corps this· summer. Applications will he available in April in the Student Activities Office, and Professor Berk's offiqe. Completed applications should be handed in to Prof. Berk. All students are invited to apply, the only requirements being that the student provide his own transportation and place to live for the summer. The Temple's selection committee plus some representatives of Union College will choose the student who will participate in the program. Chris Fink, Class of '75, brings with him a solid background of expertise to the Social Committee. After serving as stage manager for the Social Committee, Chris resigned last year to accept the position of President of WRUC. In addition he belongs to the Edward Fo~ Blues Band, and has considerable ,experience in booking groups and organizing social activities. Film Committee The Steering Committee also voted on the slate of Film Committee members recommended by the Committee on Committees. The members ele~ted are H~wie Epstein, Matt Bnef, Jay Heck, Andy Pearce, In Memoriam PATRICK EMORY KILBURN 1923-1974 _Concordiensis, o!l behalf of the Union College community, w1sh~s to. extend tts deep-felt sympathy to the family of Patnck Kilburn. Professor Kilburn passed away on Friday, March 15. 1974, of an apparent heart attack. \What is this I hear of sorrow and weariness, Anger, discontent and droopil1!( hopes? Degenerate sons and dau!(hte-rs. L(fe is too stron!( for vau- lt takes life to lo\;e l~ie.\ Edgar l.ee Masters from Lucinda Matlock 'JPI rhofessor Kilb.urn greatly influenced all who knew him He WI e greatly m1ssed. · Chris Fink new Social Committee Chairman photo by Vi and Cary Siegal. New Meal Plan The Steering Committee is presently negotiating with SAGA Fo()d Service on the possibility of instating a meal plan with options of taking some meals at Hale House or the Rathskeller, Outside the meeting, President Larry Brown boasted, \After this, we're· going to be the most popular organization on campus.\ Women's Glee Club Bruce Downsbrough, President . of the Union Glee Club, presented ·the Steering Committee with the Constitution of the Women's Glee Club. Although it was unclear about the financial status of the men's counterpart, the Women's Glee Club Constitution was approved, and the Steering Committee indicated that Student Tax money would be available. Conspiracy by BILL TALIS When President John Kennedy was assassinated, did the Warren Commission determine th6 truth ()f the circumstances surrounding the murder? Robert Saltzman Union Class of '68 and researche; for the National Committee of Inquiry, provided an explanation before a packed crowd in SS016 last Thursday. According to Saltzman, John Kennedy was murdered by a large conspiracy, which required a government coverup in order to maintain its anonymity. \An understanding .of the coverup in Dallas might help us understand the phenomena of coverup in Watergate today,\ he suggested. Photographic Proof The prire of the presentation was an original copy of the Continued on page 7 Vtlt#:&Wtlti:C:,.-., •• ---JIV'Itltr,.- 'lJ .... _\L Committee applications are now available in the St11dent Activities Office in Old Gym Hall. Students who will be aw~y from school during sprmg term and who are interested in applying for e01nmittee membership next year are asked to do so before they leave. AU applications are due in the Stlldent Acti.vities Office on Monday, April 15, 1974.

P£!ge 2 . CONCORDIENSIS, Thursday, March 2/, 1974 -Editors-in-chief ................. Judy Dein. Bill Talis N · Edit . · ews ~r ............................. Phyllis Ed~lman CUitul\e Edttor. ····~·······-·····················Pete Sobol Sports Editor ......... , ....................... Bart Mercer .Ph~ Editof .... $,_ •••••••••• u~ ......... ~ ••••• Biil ErichSon Als't Photo Editor ................... , Leslie Steiaeker Copy ~or ....... e ••• ., ..... \······;·········~··Phil ~&ei Managing Editors ................... lto'b MOnuschein ·Chris o•eonnor. B •. Ed... . . ~ ~ness . ttor .................... ~ ......•.. Aian Gnessin Nati Dal Ad . • . . o . vert.ISillg ...................... Steve Kelley SJ~bacriptions Editorr ............. Gene Rosenblum layout. .... : .... ..-~ ...•• f>ave Strom. Linda Mackey u.!'ion ~· is ll\blilbed CWIY 1\unday by ~be ~~t body of .. . Old Gym Hall. Schenectady. N;Y., Publications Oftlcc. 1'be .kwilla World Publ~ns.. 771 State St •• ScheDectady, N.Y •• 12307. ~. Entered in tJie Sc:henectady ·poet Office as S'ceond Clus . :Matter. Sublcription Rate lS cents per copy, $8.00 a year .deliVered ~ywhcre.iia ~United States. Deldline for copy ii\Tuaday 5:00P.M. . ' -. ... . . - ·- Raise Your Consciousness Special to Concordiensis The emergence of the Women's M o~~ment, questioning the trad1t1onal societal role of wom~n, has also brought into question the role which society has traditionally dictated for men. To discuss what it means to be a man, a~d how that idea might be changmg, a men's conscious- ness-raising group has been formed by several men in the community. alternative life-style free from undue societal pressures. More information on this type of 'alternative' can be gained by calling David Boggs; 377-9742, or John Brewer; 346-9973. WRUC Reaets Edit()rs, Concordiensis: The management of WRUC felt it .very necessary to respond to the distorted attack on the radio station in last week's edition of Concordiensis. . The major complaint voiced in the letter had to do with progra:f!lming .. To correct any wrong 1mpress10ns created by the letter, Chris Fink, the General Manager, has nothing to do with pmgramming it is not part of his job. This aspect of station operation is the responsibility of the ·Program Director. In the past two years two people have held this post: Mike Milsom and Chuck Rothman. The position is dift]cult and time consuming. Contrary to what the letter might imply, the management is aware of the so-called ' 1 ego-trip syndrome.\ It is something that :even the author of last week's letter does not fail to indulge in. A mention of one's name on the air is quite in keeping with accepted professional procedure, as everyone knows. If we find a DJ. is ~oing less than a good job, he 1s giVen a chance to correct his fail~ res .. If this fails to take place, he 1s relieved of his show. W_RUC has, in the past, always published a program guide in Concordy. This year the schedule changed constantly to meet the needs of the station and its listening public. It would have been difficult to supply a running schedule. Our format does not change so drastically from one hour to another that this would even be necessary. ·rhe group addresses itself to the idea of roles: roles that societal pressures force upon both men and women. The \traditional role of the man - that of the strong, unemotional breadwinner - is now being questioned by some men, partly because many women no longer accept the corresponding role given them. Some married members of the group have found that their wives now want a more independent po~ition in their . relationship. Th1s,. naturally, brings into quest•on the role of a man as the dominating member of a relationship. WRUC makes frequent college- related announcements because it -is expected to do so by the ·- Federal Communications Concordy Editor contem- plating male role in societv. photo bv Alan Gnessin Co':llmission. WRUC is required by Its own constitution to act as a source of information for the college community. The radio station is one of the larg~st organizations on campus. It ts also one of the most demanding on its members for time. No other organization insists that every member appear every week without fail. We can't realistically expect to make each member spend uncountable hours at the station. How could one fOr . . ' mst.a~ce, work on building the unfmtshed production studio with no technical knowledge? We l1ave made a concerted effort to improve the station by Since many men are not at ease talking about their emotions, the first task of the group is to attempt to break these barriers to d-iscussion. Then, when men can talk honestly with one another about their experiences and emotions, the group hopes to be able to define What men can do in order to avoid being forced into a stereotyped pattern of behavior. Eventually, a group such as this would hope to meet with women who also question the traditional sex roles, in order to discuss how to eliminate stereotypes from male-female relationships; and allow people the freedom of expressing, without sexual restraints, the feelings that they hold. Photo Exhibition Obviously, not everyone wants !his type of \freedom.\ The point 1s not that traditional relationships are somehow bad and that everyone must assum~ unisex life-styles. Rather, the objective is that those who feel uncomfortable with the traditional roles of 'man' and 'woman' (with whatever conn.ot~tions of superiority or mfenonty they may contain) should have an alternative, and should be able to pursue that ~~ ......... ~~~ .. Applications for Orienta- · tion Advisors are now available at the Dean of Students Office. They will be handed out until April 12, and must be returned by April IS. Note: \Orientation Advisors\ were once called \Orientation Counselors.\ \Recent Photographs\ Current Show at New Gallery The present show at the New Gallery in the Arts building is a collection of recent photographs by Chuck Booth. This thesis-exhi- bition is presented as partial ful- fillment of the requirements set up by the Arts Department for its graduating art majors. Although Chuck has a sound background in the other areas of art offered at Union, this show reflects his recent concentration in phot0graphy and. has a unified impact on the viewer. The photographs consist of nature studies, personal portraits and abstractions. Although there are some 35mm shots, the emphasis is clearly on large format photography which vields the richness of clarity and detail obtained by printing from 4 x 5 and 8x I 0 inch negatives. The opening of the New Gallery is filling a vital need of the College community to have exhibition space for student and professional work. In recent weeks the New Gallery has hosted several fine shows of specia:J interest. \The Student Prints\ opened the term with a fine collection of woodcuts from the Printmaking class. \The Second Dimension\ followed with a show of some of the work from the Two Dimensional Design class. Next came \The Steinmetz Collection \ a collection · of fascinati~g photographs made from the turn- of-the-century glass plate negatives of Charles P. Steinmetz. Just last week the Photo Society put on a well-attended show of their students' work. The present show, \Chuck Rooth-Reccnt Photographs,\ excellently caps off a full term of fine shows and we anxiously await the exhibitions in store for us next term. - FINALS FREEIUE The Coffeehouse presents llnion's own in their finest hours. Come March 22, 8:30 .p.m. in Old Chapel. You Said' It! having the new studios m Carnegie Hall built, and by filing a complex application for ari FM station in Washington. We have reason to believe that the permission for an FM station will be granted within a year's time. We have done all we can in this aspect and it only awaits action by the FCC. We hope this has set things straight. If you have any interests in working in any capacity for the· station, there will he a meeting you should attend at the hegin11ing of next term. Chris Fink, General Manager Don Kaplan, Station Manager Chuck Rothman, Program Director Steve Reinhardt, Technical Directo!:. * * * * SAGA Reneges Editors, Concordiensis: The Student Social Action Committee would like to bring to the atten~ion of students the violation on the part of Saga West College managers of the agreement to halt purchases of lettuce produced by California agri-cor:porations opposin~ the unionization of migrant laborers and perpetuating the oppression these people. On the basis of a petition signed by rn01:e than three-fourths of those students who regularly eat at West College, the Social Action Committee and the Saga managers made a verbal agreement to the effect that lettuce purchases would be made in a way that would not work against the organizing efforts of Cesar Chavez, Dolores Huerta, and the UFW. It was known by the ma~agers that such purchases. would mclude not only the often unobtainable UFW-Califomia lettuce, but also non-California lettuce, local lettuce when, available, or · lettuce substitutes such as romaine or chicory. Evidently some students questioned the Saga managers about the quality of the salad· on the basis of those complaints :and a very small scale quasi-refer- endum .initiated unilaterally by the Saga managers, two separate salads were made available ont1 in accor~anc~ with the agree.:Uent, and one m VIolation. Presumably, students were to choose one or the other salad after assessing the relative importance of their dietary needs and the needs of the effect upon the national boycott; but no explanation f th 0 e situation was posted by the Saga managers. At any rate, this action was a l'l\1{lf -~ flagrant violation of the S.A.C.- Saga agreement, since it was clearly decided that no purchases would be made that went against the national boycott struggle. If students feel that they need more information about the boycott and would like to hold a referendum on the issue, the S.A.C. will be available to organize it. Anyone i.nterested m the Farmwol'kcrs struggle should ~ontact the S.A.C. through the Student Activities Office. · Jim Landen, Member .of Student Social Action Committee * * * * Walker Returns Editors, Concordiensis: A recent Corcordiensis article e_ntitled \Lacrosse ls Sprung\ by Francesco Isgro gave a preview of the Union College Lacrosse team, except for one very important fact. Nowhere in the article was anything mentioned about l)ennis Walker. Besides the fact that he is one of the outstanding returning letter.man, along with the people m~nt10ned by Mr. Istro, he is also one of the most outstanding Lac~osse players in the country havmg received honorable mention All-American honors for his 42 goals and nine assists last season. We believe a little more research and editing would have prevented this sort of irres- ponsible reporting. A lack .of giving credit where credit is due seems to be a recurring problem of Conc~rdiensis si!lce nothing v.:-as mentiOned of th1s last spring erther. Dennis is one of the hardest working and most dedicated members of the team and for this reason we think this oversight should be con:ected. Mr. Isgro also failed to mention David Hochschartner and Willie Garofalo. Sincerely, J. Kevan Norris '74 David Wastz '74 Mark Nutano '74 Jeffrey Wirst '74 Lawrence Caruso '74 Susan Harp '75 Nancy Nelson '74 Sandy Wilder '74 Levrs. · Dll'e's 1\Jens Sllop · . 453 State St. - '(dQWDtOMID ..: .. ..___.._.'\' ) .- . -· -...uy MCAT -OAT -GRE LSAT-ATGSB .OCAT NATL. BDS. '\~'ES\ a~ 1) ~ Pnzerit~ • Preparation for tliSts rtquired for admi8on to gniduate and prates- ' 783 ALBANY ST. slonalscltools • Six and twelve lillian cou~WS NO DELIVERY CHARGE • Small group~ WITR TWO PIZZAS *Voluminousmatwlal for home study WI: DELI¥1!:.11 I P,.,_red by experts in each field UNTIL MIDNIGHT • LfiiOn schedule can be tail~ed to CaB 374-5600 meet individual needs. lesasons can be Sp111ad over a period of several montils to a year, or for out of town students, a period ,. of one week DARI- •Opportunity for raview of past IMSOns via c..,. at the center TREET Special Conil*t Courses dwing Weikends - ll'itei•e•ians Summer S41ukJns 'Student Discount' STANLEY H. KAPLAN (with I.D.) EDUCATIONAL CENTER LTD. -----··u • 2049 Van Vranken 1212) 331-s:iDo .tl :;·\ M()n.-Fri. 6-9, Sat. S·9 (511) 631 . tK& ,..,.._ 377-4261 O<P.YS, EVENINGS,WEEKEN08 ' Branches In Major Citi .. in U .. S.A • . n. fewiott·SeAN~ ..tdl ill• NetlM..- a.,...llltiM ~-:~~4.ij; ~i:':·i=*'~~·

Pagel CONCORDJENSIS, Thursday, March 21, 1974 ,Editors-in-chief .........•....... Judy Dein, Bill Talis News Editor ............................. Phyllis Edelman CUI Ed' · . ttrre stor. ............ - .................... Pete Sobol s Ed'. ports ttor ................................. Bart Mercer Ph~to Editor .............. ~ ............ ; ..... Bill Erichson Ass't Photo Editor ............... ~ .... Leslie Stemeker Copy .. Editor ..................... ·~~ B•• •e•·······Phil .Aicat;.e.s Managing Editors ................... R.ob Mondschein ·Cbria o·eonnor. B . Ed' ·. . Ullnes& llOru ........ u.······u•••••••••Alan Gnessin Nati nal Ad . . . . o verusmg ...................... Steve Kelley s :bseri . ., ..ll' ~. . ptions .&Ultor~ ............. Gene Rosenblum Layout ..... : ............. Dave Strom., Linda Mackey <? · iM, • is I\Jblitbed every Thursday by tbe student booy of Ua1011 Co .. Old Gym Hall. Scbenectady. N~Y., Publicatiom Off'tce The.JRilfl World ~bli.cations. 771 State St., Schenectady. N.Y .• t2307' (~~. Entered m the Sebenectad.y Poat Office u Suond Class Matter. Sublcription Rate 3S cents per copy. $8.00 a year .delmn-ed d!_Dywhcre.in ~United States. Deadl~ for ~py ~-T~y 5:00P.M. Raise Your Consciousness Special to Concordiensis The emergence of the Women's Mo~~ment, questioning the traditiOnal societal role of wom~n. has also brought into questiOn .. ihe role which society has traditiOnally dictated for men. To discuss what it means to be a man, a~d how that idea might be changing, a men's conscious- ness-raising group has been formed by several men in the community. The group addresses itself to the idea of roles: roles that societal pressures force upon both men and women. The \traditional role of the man - that of the strong, unemotional breadwinner - is now being questioned by some men, partly because many women no longer accept the corresponding role given them. Some married members of the group have found that their wives now want a more independent po~ition in their relationship. This,. naturally, brings into quest10n the role of a man as the dominating member of a relationship. alternative life-style free from undue societal pressures. More information on this type of 'alternative' can be gained by calling David Boggs; 377-9742, or John Brewer; 346-9973. Concordy Editor contem- p!atinfi male role in societ\'. photo hv Alan Gne~sin WRITC Reaets Editor§, Concordiensis: The management of WRUC felt it .very necessary to respond to the distorted attack on the radio station in last week's edition of (' oncordiensis. . The major complaint voiced in the letter had to do with progmr:tming .. To correct any wrong 1mpresswns created by the letter, Chris Fink, the General Manager, has nothing to do with pmgramming it is not part of his job. This aspect of station operation is the responsibility of the Program Director. In the past two years two people have held this post: Mike Milsom and Chuck Rothman. The position is dif(icult aNd time consuming. Contrary to what the letter might imply, the management is aware of .~he ~o-called \ego-trip syndrome. It 1s something that even the author of last week's letter dt?es not fail to indulge in. A mention of one's name on the air is quite in keeping with accepted professional procedure, as everyone knows. If we find a DJ. is ~oing less than a good job, he 1s given a chance to correct his fail~res .. If this fails to take place, he Js relieved of his show. W_R UC has, in the past, always published a program guide in Concordy. This year the schedule changed constantly to meet the needs of the station and its listening public. It would have been difficult to supply a running schedule. Our format does not change so drastically from one hour to another that this would even be necessary. WR UC makes frequent college- related announcements because it is expected to do so by the Federal Communications Co~mission. WRUC is required by Its own constitution to act as a source of information for the college community. The radio station is one of the larg~st organizations on campus. It IS also one of the most demanding on its members for time. No other organization insists that every member appear every week without fail. We can't realistically expect to make each member spend uncountable hours at the station. How could one fOr inst~~ce. work on building' the unf1mshed production studio with no technical knowledge') We have made a concerted effort to improve the station hy You Said It! having the new studios in Carnegie HaH built, and by filing a complex application for an FM station in Washington. We have reason to believe that the permission for an FM station wiU be granted within a year's tim~. We have do1:1e all we can in this aspect and it only awaits action by the FCC. We hope this has set things straight. If you have any interests in working in any capacity for the station. there will be a meeting you should attend at the begimting of next term. * Chris Fink, General Manager Don Kaplan, Station Manager Chuck Rothman, Program Director Steve Reinhardt, Technical Director. * * * SAGA Reneges Editors, Concordiensis: The Student Social Action Committee would like to bring to the attention of students the violation on the part .of Saga West College managers of the agreement to halt purchases of lettuce produced by California agri-corporations opposing the unioni1ation of migrant laborers and perpetuating the oppression these people. . On the basis of a petition s1gned by more than three-fourths of those students who regularly cat at West College, the Social Action Committee and the Saga managers made a verbal agreement to the effect that lettuce purchases would be made in a way that would not work against the organizing efforts of Cesar Chavez, Dolores Huerta and the UFW. It was known by the ma~agers that such purchases would mclude not only the often unobtainable UFW-California lettuce, but also non-California lettuce, local lettuce when available, or lettuce substitutes such as romaine or chicory. Evidently some students flagrant violation of the S.A.C.- Saga agreement, since it was clearly decided that no purchases would be made that went against the national boycott struggle. If students feel that they need more information about the boycott and would like to hold a referendun1 on the issue, the S.A.C. wilil be available to organize it. Anyone interested in the Farmworkers struggle should ~ontact the S.A.C. through the Student Activities Office. Jim Landen, Member of Student Social Action Committee * * * Walker Returns Editors, Concordiensis: A recent Corcordiensis article e~~titled \Lacrosse Is Sprung\ by Francesco Isgro gave a preview of the Union College Lacrosse team, except for one very important fact. Nowhere in the article was anything mentioned about Dennis Walker. Besides the fact that he is one of the outstanding returning letter;nan, along with the people mentiOned hy Mr. lstro, he is also one of the most outstanding l.ac~osse players in the country hav1ng received honorable mention All-American honors for his 42 goals and nine assists last season. We believe a little more research and editing would have prevented this sort of irres- ponsible reporting. A lack of giving credit where credit is due seems to be a recurring problem of Conc~rdiensis since nothing ~as mentiOned of this last spring erther. Dennis is one of the hardest working and most dedicated members of the team and for this reason we think ~his oversight should be corrected. Mr. Isgro also failed to mention David Hochschartner and Willie Garofalo. Sincerely, J. Kevan Norris '74 David Wastz '74 Mark Nutano '74 Jeffrey Wirst '74 Lawrence Caruso '74 Susan Harp '75 Nancy Nelson '74 Sandy Wilder '74 Since many men are not at ease talking about their emotions, the first task of the group is to attempt to break these barriers to discussion. Then, when men can talk honestly with one another about their experiences and emotions, the group hopes to be able to define what men can do in order to avoid being forced into a ~tcreotyped pattern of hehavior. Eventually, a group such as this would hope to meet with women who also question the traditional sex role~. in order to discuss how to eliminate stereotype~ from male-female relationships; and allov. peoph: the freedom of expre~sing, without sexual restraints, the feelings that they hold. Photo Exhibition questioned the Saga managers about the quality of the salad; on the basis of those complaints-and a very small scale quasi-refer- endum initiated unilaterally by the Saga managers, two separate salads were made available, one in accordance with the agreement, and one in violation. Presumablv, ~tudenb were to choose CHic t;r the other salad after assessing the relative importance of their dietary needs and the needs of the effect upon the national bovcott· hut no explanation or\ th~ Dave's Mens Shop _,53 State St. ( clown&GM~~;a. Sdlenectady) Obviously, not evervone wants thi~ type of \freedom.:' The point Is not that traditional relatiomhips are somehow bad, and that everyone must assume unisex life-styles. Rather. the ohjective is that those who feel uncomfortable with the traditional roles of 'man' and 'woman' (with whatever connotations of superiority or mfenonty they may contain) ~hould have an alternative, and ~hould he ahle to pursue that ~~++++++++++++++~ .. Applications for tion Advisors are available at the Dean of Students Office. They will be handed out until April 12, and must be returned by April 15. Note: \Orientation Advisors\ were once called \Orientation Counselors.\ \Recent Photographs\ Current Show at New Gallery I he present ~h<m at the :\ew <iallcry in the Arts building is a collection of recent photographs by Chuck Booth. This thesis-exhi- ~ition is presented as partial ful- fillment of the requirements set up hy the Arts Department for its graduating art major~. Although Chuck has a sound background in the other areas of art offered at Union. this show reflects his recent concentration in phot<,graphy and, has a unified impact on the viewer. 1 he photographs consist of nature studies, personal portraits and ahstrar.:tions. Although there arc some 35mm shots. the emphasis is clearly on large format photography which vields the richness of claritv and detail obtained by printing· from 4 x 5 and Rx 10 inch negatives. lhe opening of the New Gallery is filling a vital need of the College community to have exhibition space for ~tudent and professional work. In recent weeks the New Gallery has hosted several fine shows of special in !crest. \The Student Prints\ opened the term with a fine collection of \ituation was posted by the Saga r--M---C-A-T--- 0 -A-J---G-R_E_ managers. At any rate. this action was a woodcuts from the Printmaking ••••••••~~~-~~~~~---~~~~ class. \The Second Dimension\ ..tf\ ~ ~ followed with a show of some of l'l} \I ... t;. 11 r--\- .... =-~ the work from the Two ~ CIS ~ · ·'i) I>imensional Design class. Next ~\t.\t.\\~ • (.d'~·'-1 came \The Stcinmet7 Collection,\ ,ft\' a collection of fascinating Pizzen,. photograrhs made from the turn- I 1111 of-the-century glass plate 783 ALBANY ST. negatives of Charles P. Steinmet1. NO DELIVERY CHARGE .lust last week the Photo Society WITH TWO PIZZAS LSAT-ATGSB OCAT NAfle BDS. ,. Prepsr~nion for tests required fu admission to graduate and profes- slonel schools • Six and twelve SII!SSion courses • Small groups put on a well-attended show of WE DELI'Vt.:K • V otuminous material for homo study ' prepared by experts in each field their students' work. UNTIL MIDNIGHT I he present show. \Chuck Call 374-5600 Booth-Recent Photographs,\ •••-••••IJ!IIII••••III excellently caps off a full term of tine. shows and we anxiously await the exhibitions in store for m next term. FINALS FREEBIE The Coffeehouse presents t:nion's own in their finest hours. Come March 22, 8:30 p.m. in Old Chapel. • I I 4 4 : i DARI- J ... _ TREET 'Student Discount' (with I.D.) 2049 VanVranken Mon.-Fri. 6-9, Sat. 8-9 377-4261 I I •LHIOn schedule can ba taii~ed to meet individual needs. lessons can be spread over a period of several months to a year. or for out of town students, a period of one week •Opportunity for review of past lessons via tape at the c:mter Special Compact Counes during Weekends- lntenesstons Summer Sessions STANLEY H. KAPLAN EDUCATIONAL CENTER LTD. '16llhol111h- ._,,..,N.·V u (212) 336-5300 :-r (516t 638-4566 OA'I'S, EVENINGS, WEEKENDS ' Branches in Major Cities in U.S.A. n. r.,...,..s.,,_, .,. ,.., Nt.Uea..w R.,....,riaa . i ~ i ) { ,, '' ; .~ I'; ! \.:1 ·' . J • ' . f· ~' i

l r ' Photo by Vi .. CONCORDIENSIS. Thursday, March 21, 1974 Photo by Vi Photo by Leslie Steineker ;~~~-:. Page3 Photo by Jim Tremlett j ''···> ~ Photo by Leslie Steineker

CONCORDIENS/S, Thursday, March 21. 1974 Page3 I· l . . ! r ·l J . .,l} '' . 1 ' Photo by Vi Photo by Jim Tremlett ·' j Photo by Leslie Steineker f· Photo by Vi Photo by Leslie Steineker

Pagte 4 CONCORDIENSIS, Thursday, March 21, 1974 Photo by )Jill Erichson Photo by Cliff Langweiler Photo by Leslie Steineker Photo by Bin Erichson Photo by Cliff Langweiler Photo by Bill Erichson i I ~ L I ·- -

Page 4_ CONCORDIENSJS, Thursday, March 21, 1974 Photo by Bill Erichson Photo by Bill Erichwn r ' \ . •• Photo b~ Cliff l.ang.,eilrr Photo by Cliff Langweiler .. Photo by Leslie Steineker l ... ! Photo by Bill Erichson

CONCORDIENSIS, Thursday, March 21, 1974 PageS Photo by Dave Hardman Photo by Bill Erichson i f Photo by Ellen Radack !SEfUi!i! Photo by Ellen Radack Photo by Leslie Steineker (' ;·

i '• p! ' \ ' I r l. I I ~ i· ! ,.· \, CONCORDJENSJS, Thursday~ March 21. 1974 PageS ····~··'· \'%'\' Photo by Dave Hardman Bmt!ft Photo by Bill Erichson Photo by Ellen Radack Photo by Ellen Radack Photo by Leslie Steineker ,

Photo by Ian Gluck PbotQ by Jim Tremlett Photo by Leslie Steineker Photo by Leslie Steineker Photo by Leslie §teinekel' The Classe hospit 370-6~ FRl receiv, andP< this ye for nc Office An~ contac year, l Th~ comp· in aH availa Roorr 20415 Ch1 Watsc receiv year i in JaJ Un result Mgr., Sales Reinl OF quest Activ An conta Th< Monc The t Kelle Swan I. Fo W< be rv Libra He 9730. Is 1 Sen a work Satm Ea Delt~ limite build Boys and t open T11 at hie offer Fran 1 , I • 201t A Rl Kl 81

,/ 1~ Photo by !an Gluck Photo by Jim Tremlett Photo ~y Leslie Stein~ker Photo bv Leslie Steineker . I ,, '·« ' j1 Photo by Leslie Steinel!er The Classe~ hospit< 370-65 FRE receive and pa this ye1 for no Office. AHy contac year. b The compu in aH 2 avai•lal Room 20415. Chu Watso receive vearir in Jap: Uni' results Mgr .. Sales Reinh: OFl questi' Activi Any contac The Mond The te Kel!Jey. Swam 1. Fm Wo be M I.ihra1 Ho' 9730. Is tl Senat' worki Sa tun Ear Delta limite buildi Boys and rr open: ThE athlet offers Fran~ I 20th 1'11 RC Kf ,, Bl

CONCORDJENSIS, Thursday_, March 21, 1974 Page 7 . . BLITR!R The Passover Seder& are Saturcfay and Sunday April 6 and 7. Classes start Monday, April 8. If you would like community hospitality for either Seder, contact Scott Reiter, 151 Davidson, 370-6521. * * * * FRESHMEN: To avoid any misunderstanding, if you wish to receive a copy of the 1974 ~ni~n Book, you must, s?bmit an order and payment of $10.00. This will ensure your receivmg a yearbook this year plus the •75, '76, and '77 yearbooks, which you will receive for no extra charge. Place your order at the Student Activities Office. * * * * Anyone interested in renting a refrigerator for riext term should contact Kitty Lawrence at 370-6461. She has rented one for the year, but will be away in Vienna spring term. * * * * The U.S. Civil Service Commission operates a national computerized application bank which makes referrals to Vacancies in all agencies throughout the country. Information for engineers is available by writing: Office of Recruitment and College Relations, Room 6All. U.S. Civil Service Commission, Washington, D.C., 20415. * * * * Chuck Booth and Anne Pebly have been awarded Thomas J. Watson Fellowships for a year of travel and study. They will receive a $7.000 stipend for the year of study. Chuck will spend his year in France on photographic studies; Anne will study' calligraphy in Japan and Taiwan. * * * * Union Radio Station WRUC has held its winter elections and the results are: President-General Mgr., Don Kaplan, '75; Station Mgr.. Steve Sokal, '75; Program Director, Rich Forselius, '77; Sales Director. Lou-Anne Beauregard, '76; Tech. Director, Steve Reinhardt, '76. * * * * OFF•CAMPUS STUDENTS: Please mail or bring the questionnaire pertaining to off-campus housing to the Student Activities Office as soon as possible. The deadline is March 22. * * * * Anyone interested in taking meals at Delta Upsilon in the spring contact Tom Pastore at 346-9776. * * * * The first women's intramural volleyball season was completed on Monday. March 18. The first place team was 4th floor Richmond. The team included A. Sloat, D. Jenkins, J. Lundstrom, R. Rice, K. Kelley, L. Feldman, L. Yelton, D. lssacks, J. Rothensteain, and M. Swam. The second, third, and fourth place teams· were Richmond I. Fox 2 and West 2. respectively. * * * * Women: organize your softball teams! Softball intramurals will be Mondays and Wednesdays, 4:30-5:30, beginning April 10, on Library Field. * * * * How to eat well this Spring! Eat at. Phi Delta Theta. Call 364- 9730. * * * * Is there justice in America? Ramsey Clark, candidate for the U.S. Senate from New York, faces a tough fight. Those interested in working for him are invited to an organizational meeting this Saturday at I :00 p.m. in the Social Science Lounge. * * * * Early Saturday morning, March 9, the Brothers of Phi Gamma Delta aided the Boys Club of Schenectady. This organization of limited financial resources was in the process of restoring a church building in Mont Pleasant for the Mont Pleasant branch of the Boys Club. The Fiji's worked for six houts, painting several rooms and making the kitchen operational. The effort enabled the Club to open· several days ahead of schedule. The Boys Club has requested volunteers to work with kids in athletics, music, arts and crafts, and other activities. The Club offers coed activities. If you are interested in helping out, please call Frank Daggett at 372-7040. THE FILM COMMITTEE PRESENTS: - - ~ WINNER Of 4 ACADEMY AWARDS! • INCLUDING BEST SONG 20th CENTURY·FOX PRESENTS PAUL NEWMAN ROBERT REDFORD KATHARINE ROSS BUTCH ta&SIOV aND THE SUNDANCE KID co(tRN:.'\;~ol~~e• ~ Saturday and Sunday, March 23 and 24 in SS016 at 7, 9, 11 p.m. Only 99¢ JAKE LIPSTEN'S lJGi.JORS ' Tet.374-I- Mon.&t. 9 &.m.:-9 p.m. ~State·St. Dowato~ Sdlencc:tady FERRO'S PHARMACY SSTUDENT DISCO~ . 575 Nott St. 3'77-1511 346-9319 Job News Graduate Assistant openings at SUNY at New Paltz, New York. Housing, a $4,000 stipend, and partial tuitien payment are avail'able for students pursuing a graduate degree at New Paltz. Work is with the Associate Dean of Housing in a counseling and in an administrative capacity with the dormitories. More information is at the Placement Office. Engineers - Summer jobs with American railroads: A selected list of railroads offering summer employment for engineers, who are interested in investigating the possibilities of a career in railroad engineering, is at the placement office. The jobs are nationwide and provide excellent pay and experience. What will the job market be like in the 1980's? The editors of The Christian Science Monitor have attempted to answer part of that question in a special news section entitled \Careers for the 1980's:' In this ten page section of the March 18, 1974 issue are articles dealing with education and employment: changing values, job-supply lag, new educational programs and predictions about how today's students will fit into the changing job situation. A few copies of the paper are on hand for distribution. Come into the Placement office and share a copy with some friends. 147 JAY ST. Kennedy Coverup Continued from Page 1 famous Zapruder film, which suggests that the Warren Commission misinterpreted the facts of the assassination. The shots at Kennedy were fired too fast for Oswald's rifle to have fired, asserted SCJ.ltzman. The physical reaction of Kennedy's head and body to the shots may be observed in Zapruder's film. His motions indicate that Kennedy was being fired upon by more than one individual, and from locations other than the Texas Book Depository. Physicians Testimony Saltzman cited the discrepancy in medical testimony. When Kennedy was shot he was brought to Parkland Hospital, Dallas, where he was treated by surgeons. 1 Those surgeons, later in the day, held a press conference which was covered by the national rnedia. The physicians stated that Kennedy had been struck by bullets in the front of the neck, 1 the back, and the head. After he was pronounced dead, Kennedy's body was flown back to. Washington and rushed to Bethesda Naval Hospital for autopsy. The findings of the military do~tors_wer~...£_ont.ra~y- to --- ' LeVI'S. · D.e's Mens Sllup, · aJSiate·SL· - . . '(danM ) 147 JAY ST: those of the physicians at Dallas. The military doctors claimed Kennedy was struck by. bullets fired from behind him. No autopsy report was produced for the public to witness, nor X-ray photographs, only the physician's conclusions and an artist's rendition of the bullet trajectories. Saltzman pointed out that it was indeed strange not even to produce X-rays, when the government had gone to great lengths to analyze Jack Ruby's pubic hairs. In concluding his presentation, Saltzman asserted his belief that none of the assassinations or attempts upon the lives of prominent political leaders in the 1960's were accomplished by lone assassins, because their political impact was too great to have been accidental. In no presidential election since 1960 has a major contender not been eliminated by bullets. Coverup And what of the coverup? The Warren Commission which officiaily investigated· John Kennedy's assassination comprised some of the most respected men in America, including Vice President Gerald Ford. Members of the Warren Commission themselves were not actively involved in research, stated Saltzman; he emphasized that the information flow from CIA, FBI, and Dallas Police sources was often erroneous and misleading. Saltzman cited actions of coverup in 1963 by men who 4 would later become involved in the · Watergate Affair. Frank 1 Sturgis, who broke into the Watergate complex, involved himself in Kennedy's murder by writing letters under an alias, secured by the Warren Commission, which stated that Oswald was involved in a Communist plot to murder Kennedy. Saltzman claims that the evidence points to a domestic conspiracy. \'BLAZING SADDLES' IS A TERRIFIC M.OVIE! iT'S MARVELOUSLY CRAZY. I THINK IT'LL MAKE YOU LAUGH UNTIL YOU'RE BLUE IN THE FACE.\ GENE SHALIT, WNBC-TV

',J ·~.·~ ,, 1 I ,I i ,.; l • . ~ It 1 •• CONCORDIENSIS, Thursday, March 21, 1974 Pase 7 BL·ITH·ER -- ...... -·· The Passover Seder!\ are Saturday and Sunday April 6 and 7. Classes start Monday, April 8. If you would like community hospitality for either Seder, contact Scott Reiter, 151 Davidson. 370-6521. * * * * FRESHMEN: To avoid any misunderstanding, if you wish to receive a copy of tl:!e 1974 Uniolt Book, you must submit an order and payment of $10.00. This will ens11re your receiving a yearbook this year plus the '75, '76, and '77 yearbooks, which you will receive for no extra cl:!arge. Place your order at the St11dent Activities Office. * * * * Aayone interested in renting a refrigerator for next term should contact Kittv Lawrence at 370-6461. She has rented one for the year, but will be away in Vienna spring term. * * * * Tl:!e U.S. Civil Service Commission operates a national computerized application bank whicl:! makes referrals to vacancies in aH agencies tl:!roughout the country. Information for er:1gineers is avai•lahle by writing: Office of Recruitment and College Relations, Room 6A 1 L U.S. Civil Service Commission, Washington, D.C., 20415. * * * * Chuck Booth and Anne Pebly have been awarded Thomas J. Watson Fellowships for a year of travel ai~d st11dy. They will receive a $7,000 stipend for the year of study. Chuck will spend his year ir:J. France on photographic studies; Anne will study calligraphy in Japan and Taiwan. * * * * Union Radio Station WRUC has held its winter elections and the results are: President-General Mgr., Don Kaplan, '75; Station Mgr .. Steve Sakal, '75; Program Director, Rich Forselius, '77; Sales Director. Lou-Anne Beauregard, '76: Tech. Director, Steve Reinhardt. '76. * * * * OFF-CAMPUS STUDENTS: Please mail or bring the questionnaire pertaining to off-campus housing to the Student Activities Office as soon as possible. The deadline is March 22. * * * * Anyone interested in taking meals at Delta U psi Ion in the spring contact Tom Pastore at 346-9776. * * * * The first women's intramural volleyball season was completed on Monday, March 18. The first place team was 4th floor Richmond. The team included A. Sloat. D. Jenkins, J. Lundstrom, R. Rice, K. KeJ!lev, L. Feldman. L Yelton. D. Issacks. J. Rothensteain, and M. Swam. The second, third. and fourth place teams were Richmond 1. Fox 2 and West 2. respectively. * * * * Women: organize your softball teams! Softball intra murals will he Mondays and Wednesdays. 4:30-5:30. beginning April 10, on l.i hrarv Field. * * * * How to eat well this Spring! Eat at Phi Delta Theta. Call 364- 9730. . * * * * Is there justice in America\ Ramsev Clark, candidate for the U.S. Senate from New York. faces a tough fight. Those interested in working for him are invited to an organizational meeting this Saturday at I :00 p.m. in the Social Science Lounge. * * * * Early Saturday morning, March 9. the Brothers of Phi Gamma Delta aided the Boys Club of Schenectady. This organi?ation of limited financial resources was in the process of restoring a church building in Mont Pleasant for the Mont Pleasant branch of the Boys Club. The Fiji's worked for six hours, painting several rooms and making the kitchen operational. The effort enabled the Club to open several days ahead of schedule. The Boys Club has requested volunteers to work with kids in athletics. music. arts and crafts. and other activities. The Club offers coed activities. If you are interested in helping out. please call Frank Da,e:gett at 372-7040. THE FILM COMMITTEE PRESENTS: WINNER Of 4 ACADEMY AWARDS I 20th CENTURY·fOX PRESENTS PAUL NEWMAN ROBERT REDFORD .KATHARINE ROSS '\ BUTCH CASSIDV AND THE SUNDANCE KID co~;:::~~ol~~E· IGPI Saturday and Sunday, March 23 and 24 in SS016 at 7, 9, 11 p.m. Only 99¢ FERRO'S PHARMACY 'STUDENT DISCOUNT' . 5'75 Nott St. 377--8511 346-9309 lob News Graduate Assistant openings at SUNY at New Paltz, New York. Housing, a $4,000 stipend, and partial tuition payment are available for students pursuing a graduate degree at New Paltz.. Work is with the Associate Dean of H owsing in a counseling and in an administrative capacity with the dormitories. More information is at the Placement Office. Engineers- Summer jobs with American railroads: A selected list of rai.Jroads offering summer employment for engineers, who are interested in investigating the possibilities of a career in railroad engineering, is at the placement office. The jobs are nationwide and provide excellent pay and experience. What will the job market be like in the 1980's? The editors of The Christian Science Manitor have attempted to answer part of that question in a special news section entitled \Careers for the 1980's~· In this ten page section of the March 18, 1974 issue are articles dealing with education and employment changing values, job-supply lag, new educational programs and predictions about how today's students will fit into the changing job situation. A few copies of the paper are on hand for distribution. Come into the Placement office and share a copy with some friends. Kennedy Coverup Continued from Page l famous Zapruder film, which suggests that the Warren Commission misinterpreted the facts of the assassination. The shots at Kennedy were fired too fast for Oswald's rifle to have fired, asserted Saltzman. The physical reaction of Kennedy's head and body to the shots may be observed in Zapruder's film. His motioHs indicate that Kennedy was being fired upon by more than one individual, and from locatioHs other than the Texas Book Depository. Physicians Testimony Saltzrnar:J. cited the discrepancy in medical testimm1y. When Kennedy was shot l:!e was brought to Parkland Hospital, Dallas, where he was treated by surgeons. . Those surgeons, later in the day, held a press conference which was covered by the natioaal media. The physicians stated that Kennedy had been stru~k by bullets in the front of the neck, 1 the back, and the head. After he was pronounced dead, Kennedy's body was flown back to Washington and rushed to Bethesda Naval Hospital for awtopsy. The findings of the military doctors were contrary to bawe's MaE Sltop~ ..m~·a . - ) those of the physicians at Dallas. The military doctors claimed Kennedy was struck by bullets fired from behind him. No autopsy report was produced for the public to witness, nor X-ray photographs, only the physician's conclusions and an artist's rendition of the bullet trajectories. Saltzman pointed out that it was indeed strange not even to produce X-rays, when the government had gone to great lengths ~o analyze Jack Ruby's pl!lbic hairs. In concl11ding his presentation, Saltzman asserted his belief that none of the assassinations or attempts upon the lives of prominent political leaders in the 1960's were accomplished by lone assassins, because their political impact was too great to have been accidental. In no presidential election since 1960 has a major contender not been eliminated by bullets. Coverup And what of the coverup? The Warren Commission which officially investigated· John Kennedy's assassination comprised some of the most respected men in America, including Vice President Gerald Ford. Members of the Warren Commission themselves were not actively involved in research, stated Saltzman; he emphasized that the information flow from CIA, FBI. and Dallas Police sources was often erroneous and misleading. Saltzman cited actions of coverup in 1963 by men who • would later become involved in the Watergate Affair. Frank 147 JAY S1'. YOU 147 JAY ST. 'Sturgis, who broke into the Watergate complex, involved himself in Kennedy's murder by writing letters under an alias, secured by the Warren Commission, which stated that Oswald was involved in a Communist plot to murder Kennedy. Saltzman claims that the evidence points to a domestic conspiracy. '\BLAZING SADDLES' IS A TERRIFIC M.OVIE! iT'S MARVELOUSLY CRAZ:Y. I THINK IT'LL MAKE YOU LAUGH UNTIL YOU'RE BLUE IN THE FACE.\ GENE SHALIT, WNBC-TV NGER.'• 2ND VERY, VERY FUNNY WEEK.t

Page8 ~JJNCORDIE_NSIS, Thurs_~ay, Marc~ 21, 1974 '74 Squad Wins Computer Game by MARK MINDEL and 8lLL KILLEN Down by twelve points in the waning minutes of play, Bill Scanlon's 1974 basket-baH squad staged a last ditch rally and in a hectic finish forced an overtime period and then went on to defeat Gary Walters' 1972 team ,in a computer \dream\ match-up. The wild scene at the end was marked by two \buzzer ·shots.\ (see attached computer print-out of last five minutes.) With six seconds remaining, Tom Bombs sun-k his third straight \bomb\ to give Scanlon's team a short-lived lead, 64-62, but then Jimmy redisco streaked downcour-t and threw in a thirty footer at the buzzer to force the extra period. Tedisco, whose heroic shot gave him 40 points on the evening, was fouled by Denio on the long shot, but missed from the line in his attempt to end it all. Two clutch steals by Carmody and Denio in the last four minutes of the game (with Tedisco on the bench with four personals) and clutch shooting by Combs and Chuck Abba sliced the twelve point deficit down in the end game. Then, with Tedisco back in the game, Walters' team held for one shot, with the score knotted at 64. But a Geoff Walker turnover permitted Scanlon's team the privilege. Denio and Mody chipped in 15 and 13 respectively for the winners. The consolahon game was won by the !97I team, 61-58. * * *' * Program Note The program was wr:itten in FortFan and made extensive use of the random num~er generator. Each decision was based on a random number compared against a statistically or humanly weighted probabi!Jity of an event occurring. For example, the computer woulcl pick first the time for a play and then decide on the play, such as shot, foul, turnover, etc. Suppose a shot was chosen. In order to decide who was shooting, the computer would pick a random number between 0.0 and 1.0 say, 0.21). Th~ r.angc 0.0-0.32 was Jim Tedisco, while 0.33-0.44 was Geoff Walker because Tedisco took 32 percent of his teams' shots, while Walker took II percent Tedisco's shot then went to another sub-program to decide in similar fashion the distance and accuracy of the shot. Subjective judgements such as how often did Tedisco shoot from each distance or how often did ,John Denio draw an offensive foul was decided by the co- authors. We also made decisions used in programming such intangibles as steals, match-ups, substitutions and deliberate style of play. Trackmen Take Third by ALISON SLOAT What appeared an almost certain victory for the Dutchmen early in the day resulted in proibably the singly most disappointing encounter of the season. After the field events, Union~s 18 point total was only five points behind leading Cortland in the 9th annual sta-te meet. Garnet long jumpers Roger McDonald, Pete Walrath, and John DeStefano picked up six points with ~hird, fourth and fifth, places in the event McDonald and Walrath each leaped 21'-1 3/4\ whi·Ie John De was close with 21% \. McDonald 'later returned to hop, skip and j.ump 44' 2 'h\ for a fifth in the triple jump. Freshman Dave Plumer had a good day. missing the win ofi a miss, ha-ving cleared 6':2\. Likewise junior muscleman Bill Mowery missed the mark by a mere 3! 4 of an inch in the shot put as Trunzo of Colgate heaved the shot 49'-3 1 4\ for the win. Cortland pole vaulters Ksion7vk, Lander, and Ross picked· up II points· in the jumping event with first, second and fifth places. Dutchman co- captain Dave Ricks failed to match the 14' jumps of Ksionzyk and Lander, to rest third with 13'- :04.9·seconds off the record set by last years Garnet combo, Cutts, Minner, McCabe and graduated Greg Hamlin. Then Rate dealt the death hand. Not another indi:vidual Union team member picked up a single point in the rest of the events. Sophomore speedster Milt Her- ring failed to qualify for the finals of the 60 yd. dash. Senior Tim McCabe was disqualified in the 600. Co-captain Mindel failed to score in the 1000 yd. run. Soph. Steve :Jones' time, although his personal best, was not good enough for points in the two mile run. So as Dave Moller added ten points to Rochesters total with a win in the mile and a second in the two mile behind' Fred Suarez, and Mike Lawrie sped to a 6.3 win in the 60, while Jimmy Murphy grabbed third, also in o.3, hoth contributing to the Cortlaud total; Union's total seemed to be in a state of equilibrium, with \no net tedency to ·change.\ Until the mile relay, Union's Dave Ricks, Jeff Broomes, Mark Shetier, and Tim McCabe combined fot a 3;29.6 second place behind SUNY Binghamton~s win in 3:18.0. ResUlts were sad, almost pitiful. There were so many possible places to pick up points. Then without scoring for so long Union sat third p'lace in total team scores ,only five points behind Cortlan<!l's 33 point winning total, and four points behind Rochester. There seems to be no relationship among performances from week te week. Hopefully the :;pring weather will co-operate for a decent outdoor season ami just as hopefully the spikers from ol' U Col can get it together for t-he success t-hey ar.e more than capable of obtaining. Softball lntram.urals 6 \·W.th th t t f h . Spring intramurals - Softball event. 1 · e s ar o t e runmng · h\ h The f t. · 1 t f th t th tl k . 11 teams wts mg to. enter t e Irs specia even o e even s e ou . oo was stt · 1 · '11. b h F · b b · ht c· f d C t St mtramural softball eague sprmg term w1 · e t e r1s ee ng . raw or ut s, eve - d Cb · h' t b h ld J M k M' d 1 d T' program are requeste. to turn ampmns 1ps o e . e M onces,b ar m. e, thaln Imd into the Athletic Department a Wednesday. April 17th on c a e ran smoo Y an f h · b f L'b f' ld t 4 30 It · b\ d ~ 7 57 2 . . . h copy o t e1r roster, on or e ore 1 rary 1e · a : p.m. IS com m_e 1 ° 1 r a T: h ·. wm m t · 1 e Tuesdav, March 26. Following hoped that all frisbee conscious two ml e re av. elr time on Y the 26ih deadline date, league (or unconscious. for that matter) With both Denio and Charlie Gugliotta out, Walters' squad looked the choice in overtime, but after canning a twenty footer to open a 68-66 lead, Tedisco fouled out. Luke Dillon cut the lead to one by making the front end of Union Pong schedules will be prepared so that aspirants. will ready themselves games may start with the opening over the vacation, for this event. of the spring term. Other special events will include This year the team designated kite flying, archery, tennis, soccer as the home team will be (six per side) for male and female responsible each home game, to participation, track and field furnish an umpire: to officiate meets. horseshoe ·tourney. the game and confirm the score platform tennis and \fleeceball.\ to the Athletic office. Leagues No one issue of the \('')ncordv\ will be established for both could fully cover these eveJ!ts so Fraternity and independent play. watch the athletic department As a large number of teams are bulletin board and plan on anticipated. it is requested that enjoying an active spring. the two-shot foul, and then Steve ·Kelly grabbed the rebound off Luke's missed second attempt. Then Sca-nlon's charges (apparently) held on for one \do- or-die\ shot and cool Bill Cqrmody swished a 15 footer with two seconds left to ice the contest. The game was the final in a one-loss elimination tournament. In the semi-final rounds, the 1972 squad soundly whipped the 1971 team 88-62. Senior Tedisco scored 32 in that win, while sophomore Carmody canned 24 and Mike Doyle grabbed 20 rebounds. Junior Tedisco scored 24 off himself (or the losers. Scanlon's team almost did not make it to the finals. Afte~ racing to a 50-30 lead off of Walters' 1973 team, Gugliotta fouled out with ten minutes remaining and Mike Doyle and Tom Bacher led a 15-2 point charge which even- tually closed the gap to 56-51. Doyle scored 19 and hauled down 18 rebounds, for the losers, while TJME PLAY . • by JAY KING For those of you who do not know. Union College has an active and functioning Table Tennis Team. The members of this team are selected from the Table Tennis Club. On Sunday, March 17. the Union College Players answered a challenge to compete in a Tri- City Intercollegiate match between Albany State. Union College. and R. P. I. Union was represented by Moon-Chen Lo who was seated in the No. I position, Jay King seated No. 2, Deepak Gajjar No. 3, Stan Wiskoski No. 4 and Chris Whitney No. 5. Union's top five players make up a very solid first string. On Sunday. Lo had the misfortune of learning that the No. I seat was a very tough one. R.P.I. who has taken table tennis seriously longer than the other two schools matched Lo against Sr\OI'!E PYS ru 4, 58 TEDISCO 1 n Cl-lAII~E~ DE•I!O TEOiSCO OUT,ABBA j~ 64 ~52 36 • DENIO MAKES, DENICl 'lAKES 4,03 BACMER M!SS~S 15 f'f REBnUND GUGLI~ 3, 50 ABBA 20 FT 3.4B CARMODY STEAL 3.44 CARMODY 1FT TED1SCO IN, ABBA OUT 2. 5~ GUGI I 0 SlUF'PS DOYLI 2,41 COMRS 30 rr 2. 06 GUGI IO I'\OULS IIIALKEIV GUGI IO OU,T, K!!'LLV IN WALiiER MISS~S 1,49 COMRS 25 rr 1.4~ DENiO StEALS l. 40 A~BA 1 f'T 0,15 WALKER TURNOVFR 0.06 COMRS 25 rr O.Ot TEDtSeO 30 rT D~NiO ;OULS TEDISCB DFNiO OUT, OILLON t'J TEDTSC:O MISSES 0.00 rtNAL SCORE 4,51 4.3'1 TEOTSCO 2n n TED !.S CO F-OULS 0 ILL O'J TED!SCO OUT, ABBA !Iii 64.:.54 12 64-56 6 64.:.58 9 64e§Q 6 5 64-62 8 64 •64 8 64.:.66 tO 66;66 40 5 66·66 66.:.66 42 !I o·. 02 0. 0 0 61'1.:.67 1 6Bw69 11 D l L1 0 N 1-1 AKE S, D I L:::_L !!.li 'J:.__;_~c:.I.::.S S:.:.~\:.:.S ___ ___c~~--+--- CARMOilV H n I'!NAL SCORE 68·69 a Professor who is rather well known. around as one of its best players. In the first game Lo managed to keep the score fairly close, losing 17-21. In the second gameLowasbeaten 12-21. Working from the second seat. Jay King also faces a very strong R.P.I. player. Jay got off to a good lead in the first game but was quickly quieted by a vicious forhand that retired him with two consecutive losses. at 16-21 and 14-21. In the third seat, Deepak Gajjar. a transfer from SC'C faced a more evenly matched opponent. Deepak crushed his opponent in the first game winning 21-10. But in the second and third games R.P.I. recovered to win the set. 21-16 and 21-18. In the fourth seat. Stan Wiskoski who never has time to practice and only this year switched over to the eastern style table tennis bat and grip was the only Unionite able to steal a victory from the R. P. I. competition. It took him three very demanding games and the final scores were. 21-8. 14-21 and 25-23.· Chris Whitnev. seated No. 5, although a very promising and practicing freshman suffered a cold streak against his R.P.I. opponent. His scores fell at 13-21 and 14-21. In the final event. Lo and Jav. playin12: as a doubles team bewildered R.P.l. Union easily won the match with scores of 21- 15and 21-13. Although this is Union's first year of official competition. the team is not one to be looked upon lightly. Union could very well become part of the national intercollegiate circuit including teams like M.I.T .. Columbia, and f;:.or'l•~ni':oeiieiitetii•el';eei:'euetr;lul:.eeii'ui:'efie•ii .. iiini;.,i:',iiuii .. lr. .. :ileaio'oMt;;n,;,,;.,;,;,MiiNiim=iiieR;;Ii'Mi .. HmuiiHii:.t:i:e-i:iitiia•:..,:;:,.;; .. ;: .. ii.:.ealiluiii•!!!!l Pri ncet on who travel as far as ! SPRING couRsE OFFERINGs -74 ! Seattle. Washington and Miami t.ev•·s ' : covRsE t.OCATION DAY TIME INSTRrcroR!. to com-pete in Table Tennis : Tenniso Courts M.-W. 10:30 & 11:30 Hinckley ! i • T·Th tO:Jo & 11:30 Alden : matches. Arrhery Gym Orfice M.·W. 1:30 Hinckley : WeightTraining Gym M.·W. 1:30 Michelsen i ---~======-...;.--; General Conditioning T.-Th. 1:30 Michelsen i Lacrosse( girls) Gym Floor M.·W .-I'. 3:30·4:30 Hinckley Paddleball Court T.·Th. 10:30-11:30 Everling Z Sllmnastlcs Wrestling Rm. M.-W.·Th. 12:30-1:30 Weick I Golf Fieldhouse T .. Th. 1 :30 Scanlon st~~;:,:rolner (See John. Alden- Training Room. Gym) Da11e'$' MenS Shop Swim-Begin Pool T.·F. 1:30-2:15 Magee ! ·t· 453 State St. ·Intermediate Pool M.-Th. 2:45-3:30 Magee 5' .. -(dQwnto- Sch.•n-'tady) WSI Pool M.-Th. I :30-2:45 Magee i . w·aa .., \\' F_leld Hockey Gym Floor T .·Th. 3:30•4:30 Hinckley : . •••a•••e••••••••esella••••••eeMtiHHtMIIDIIIIIII ... &tM ...... illltt&I&I•••••••D•••••••n•••••••= rosters be turned into the athletic Intramural department (Coach Magee) as Swimming Meet soon as possible - prior to To be held Wednesday, March Tuesday. March 26. Please!! 20 and Thursday, March 21 at Other Spring Intramurals . 4:45 p.m. for fraternity and This spring in addition to the House teams. This meet will be actively participated in softball open to men and women, with leagues, a number of special the one restriction that a mini- events-will be presented for both mum of 6 from a group is individual and team recognition. necessary to gain entry points for The special events will be of one their team. This meet is not open or two days duration, and will be to varsity swim team members. promoted by the athleti~ Swim coach, ·Bob Magee, will department a week prior to the conduct the meet with swim team , .•• , .. _, ........ .- ... , ... , . .,..,. ~--\-_ •• ¥,;MP;..'\····- .. - ·:a~ members serving as officials. -~ ..... .I.'•···~\\!''TI:\\\';:~ ......... .;,-.;; .. :. .. ~ ... ~;;,,~~;;.;c. .. !411'ir.'~·;~~~~\\':.:..~ ' f: Anyone interested in~ -- · - I writing short weekly articles ~ q on either Varsity Tennis, Golf, .~ · I or J.V. Lacrosse, please call ~ -LeVI'S ~) Bart Mercer, Sigma Chi, 346- ·•· Dave's' Mens Shop· ~ 9582. Don't forget, the first }: 4S3 State St. M home Baseball game of next ~ I tennis the first Wednesday of ;1 (downtown Sc:hencctady) ~~~~i:~:a:!:i:~c~*~-~~- .....,:.:;:.;.;.:.:.;,;;..;.;.;;;;.;;;;.;;;.;;,;,;;;;.:;;;:;;~ ....... II \A QUIET BAR ... A PLACE TO TALK\ THE Red Fox Inn PIZZA FRIDAY & SATURDAY 5-12 P.M. BUD BY THE PITCHER 123 JAY ST. SCHENECTADY ;, ....... .. .. ~ Maurice Graubart & Sons THIS IS HERSHEL MAURICE. AND WALTER (:;RAUBART AT GRAUBART & SONS. Sc;\HENEC\TADYS OLDEST FAMILY .JEWELERS, WE VERY SELDOM ADVERTISE OUR REPAIR DEPARTMENT BECAUSE WE ARE KEPT BUSY MOST OF' THE TiME WE'D I.IKE TO MENTION THAT WE OFFER A COMPLETE REPAIR SERVJC'E ON WATCHES AND JEWELRY ITEMS. OUR WATCH REPA!Rf; . ARE DONE BY EFFICIENT. HIGHLY SKILLED WATCHMAKERS. AND Ol!R WORK IS GUARANTEED TO BE SATISFACTORY. OUR REPAIR SHOP WITH OUR OWN JEWELERS AND DIAMOND SETTERS CAN PERFORM MOST JEWELRY REPAIRS. REMEMBER GRAliBART & SONS FOR RfiiABI F SERVJC\E. . , . . . 1.66 JAY ST. SCHENECTADY Vol. Vot. office~ May ( the I electio on W same.· Peti availal 19, il Office petiii(l Frida~ Activi be cl Comn A b follow Juil This i memb winne: Board studer eligibl Pre1 presit comm the studer vote. Vic1 Body: Comn studer are eli Seer Secret All st and t< Cla1 There Class that c Cla1 There memb Votinl This i Dh There down major sits 01 theca the c runnit divisi< follow Div

Page8 CONCORDIENSIS, Thursdav, March 21, 1974 - - - • • • • F '7 4 Squad Wins Computer Game by MARK MINDEL and BILL KILLEN Down by twelve points in the waning minutes of play, Bill ScaBlon's 1974 basketball squad \laged a last ditch rally and in a hectic finish forced an overtime period and then went on to defeat Garv Wal,ters' 1972 team in a computer \dream\ match-up. !he wild scene at the eBd was marked by two \buner shots.\ (see attached computer print-out of last five minutes.) With six -.econds remaitling, Tom Bombs -.unk his third straight \bomb\ to give ScaBion's team a short-lived lead. M-62. but then Ji mm) I edist:u !Mea ked du-wm:ourt and t!Jrt:\- Ill a thirty fullter at the huner to fon.:e the extra periml. I eJi,Lu. whu~e heroic \hot ga\e him 40 ptlint' on the evening. v.as luuled h! Denio on the long :-hot. hut missed from the line in his attempt to end it all. I v. o dutch steals hy Carmody and [ knio m the laq four minutes of the game (with I edisco on the bench with four personals) and clutch shooting hy Combs and Chuck Abba sliced the twelve point deficit down in the end game. Then. with Tedisco hack in the game, Walters' team held for one shot, with the score knotted at 64. But a Cieoff Walker turnover permitted Scanlon's team the privilege. Denio and Mody chipped in 15 and 13 respectively for the v. in ners. ·r he consolatwn game was won by the 1971 team. 61-58. * * * Program Note I he program was written in Fortran and made extensive use of the random number generator. Fach decision was based on a random number compared against a statistically or htimanly \\ eighted prohability of an event occurring. h1r exarnp I e. the computer v.ould pick fi nt the time for a pia) and then decide on the play. 'uch as ... hot. ftml. turnover, etc. Suppn~c .J >hot wa~ chosen. In nrd cr to dct:idc 1d1LJ \\as shooting. the o.:omputa \\ould pick a random nuntt\>cr hetv.cen 0.0 and 1.0 ~a!, 021). lh~ range 0.0-0.32 v.as .Jim l'ediscn. while O .. U-0.44 \\a-., (icoll Walker hecausc I edi~co touk .12 percent of hi, tearm' shot~. \\hilc Walker took II percent. Tedisco\ 'hot then \\ cnt to another su h-program to decide in similar fashion the distance and accuracy of the shot. Subjective judgements such as how often did Tedisco shoot from each distance or how often did ,John Deni(l draw an offensive foul was decided by the co- authors. We also made decisions used in programming such intangibles as steals, match-ups, substitutions and deliberate stvle of play. - Trackmen Take Third by ALISON SLOAT What appeared an almost certain victory for the Dutchmen early in the day resulted m probably the singly most disappointing encounter of the season. After the field even.ts, Union's 18 point total was only five points behind leading Cortlar~d in the 9th annual state meet. <iarnet long jumpers Roger Md)onald, Pete Walrath, and John DeStefano picked up six points with third, fourth and fifth. places in the event. McDonald and Walrath each leaped 21'-1 J 4\ while John De was close \\it h 2 1' 1 ;4 \. M cDona!d later returned to hop. skip and jump 44' 2 v~ .. for a fifth in the triple 1ump. f·reshman Dave Plumer had a good day, missing the win on a mi~s. having cleared o'2''. I ikewise junior muscleman Bill \lower:-· mis~ed the mark hy a mere .~ 4 of an inch in the shot put as Jru n10 of Co !gate heaved the shot 49'-J 1 1\ lnr the win. Cortland pole vaulter~ K-.;iontvk. I ander. and Ros\ pided up I I points in the jumping event with first. second and fifth places. Dutchman co- captain Dave Ricks failed to match the 14' jumps of Ksionzyk and Lander. to rest third with I J'- :04.9 seconds off the record set by last years Garnet combo, Cutts, Minner, McCabe and graduated Greg Ham!.in. Then Fate dealt the death hand. Not another individual ll nioA t'eam me~:nber picked up a '>ingle point in the rest of the events. Sophomore speedster Milt Her- ring failed to qualify for the finals of thle 60 yd. dash. Senior Tim \llcCabe was disqualified in the hOO. Co-captain Mindel failed to -.core in the 1000 yd. run. Soph. Steve .Iones' time, although his personal hest. was not good enough for points in the two mile run. So as Dave Moller added ten points to Rochesters total with a v.in in th~: mile and a second in the two mile behind Fred Suaret. and Mike Lawrie sped to a 6.J \'in in the 60. while Jin~mv \1urphy grahbed third, abo i;,l h.3. hoth contributing to the C<:Jrtlar.d total, Union's total seemecl to be in a state of equilibrium, with \no net tedency to change.\ Until the mi:le relay, Union's [)ave Ricks, Jeff Broomes. Mark S heuer. and Tim McCabe t'om hined for a J: 2\> .6 second place behind SlJ NY Binghamton's win in 3:18.0. Results were sad. almost pitiful. rhere were so many possible places to pick up points. Then without scoring for so I <JAg Union \ltthird place·in total team scores tmly five points behind Cortland's .13 point winning total, and four points behind Rochester. rhere seems to be no relationship among performances from week to week. Ht) pefuHy the ~pring \o\-eath~:r will co-uperate for a ~ecent outdoor seaM)n and just as hopefully the spikcrs from ol' ! : Col can get it together fnr the ~uccess they are rnore than ~·apahle of obtaining. Softball In tram urals n·~. \vl .th 1 f h . Spring intramurals - Softball event. t 1e start o t e runnmg · h. h Th f t · 1 f h h I k . 11 teams w1s mg to enter t e e Irs spec1a eYent o t e events t e out oo was stt . - · · h hrl .ght. c· f d C' S mtramural softball league srmn!! term will e the Frisbee raw or utts, . teve Ch · h' b h Jd 1 M k M. d 1 d T program are requested to turn . amp10ns Ips to e e .Monces,b ar 111 e' haln rmd into the Athletic Department a Wcdnesdav. April 17th on c a e ran smoot v an · 1 'h r· Jd 4 ~0 I · h . d f 7 57 2 . - . h copv of t hetr roster. on or hefore .I rarv 1e at :. p.m. t rs com me or a : · Wtn tn t e T · d M h \6 F II· · helped that all frisbee conscious ·1 1 Th · · 1 ues av. arc _ . o owmg: two ml e re av. . eu time on y the 26th deadline date. league (or unconscious. for that matter) With both Denio and Charlie Gugliotta out, Walters' squad looked the choice in overtime. but after canning a twenty footer to open a 6R-66 lead. Tedisco fouled out. Luke Dillon cut the lead to om by making the front end of Union Pong schedules will he prepared so that aspirants. will readv themsel\'es games may start with the opening O'-er the vacation. for this event. of the spring term. Other special events will include This \·car the team designated kite fh·in)!. archerv, tennis. soccer as the home team will be !six per side) for male and female responsible each home game. to partiCipation, track and field furnish an umpire: to officiate meets, horseshoe tournev. the game and confirm the score platform tennis and \fleecehall.\ to the Athletic office. I.ea!!ues \; o one issue of the \C0ncordv\ will he established for hoth could fully cover these e\ents so Fraternitv and independent plav. watch the athletic department As a large nitmber of team~ are hulletin hoard and plan on anticipated. it is requested that enjoying an active spnng. the two-shot foul. and then Steve Kelly grabbed the rebound off Luke's missed second attempt. !'hen Scanlon's charges (apparently) held on for one \'do- or-die\ shot and cool Bill C<\rmodv swished a 15 footer with two seco\nds left to ice the contest. !'he game was the final in a one-loss elimination tournament. In the semi-final rounds, the 1972 '4uad soundly whipped the 1971 team RR-62. Senior Tedisco scored n in that win, while sophomore Carmody canned 24 and Mike Doyle grabbed 20 rebounds. .Junior Tedisco scored 24 off himself for the losers. Scanlon's team almost did not make it to the finals. After racing to a 50-JO lead off of Walters' IY73 team, Gugliotta fouled out v. ith ten minutes remaining and \1ike Doyle and Tom Bacher led a I S-2 point charge which even- tually closed the gap to 56-51. I>ovle scored 19 and hauled down I X rebounds. for the losers. while TI\'F PLAY byJAY KING For those of you who do not know. { 1 nion College has an active and functioning: Tahle Tennis Team. The members of this team are selected from the Table Tenni~ Cluh On Sunday. March 17. the Pnion Colle)!e Players answered a challenge to compete in a Tri- City Intercolle!!iate match between Albany State. Union College. and R.P.I. {Inion was represented hv \!loon-Chen I .n who was seated in the ~o. I position . .lay King seated ~o. ~. Decpak Gajjar :\1/o. 3. Stan Wiskoski :'-! o. 4 and Chris Whitney :\I o. 5. lin ion's top five players make up a ver~' solid first string. On Stmday. Lo had the misfortune of learning: that the \>: o I seat \\as a verv tough one. R.P.I. whn has taken tahle tennis seriously lon~er than the other two schools matched l.n against 4.5~ TEorseo 1 ~· CHAA~E~ nE~,, TFD!SCO O~T.ABBA iN c:; ro~'~E 6<1-52 PlS 36 DE~!O MAKES, 'lE'-ln ~AKE~ 4.0~ BACH~~ ~l~SFS 1? rT . 3. i)jj 3.48 3.44 1.4Q 1,4::> 1. 40 ~ o: 1 ~ 0.01> 0. 01 4.51 4. 3<; RFBI':.J~D GUGL!CI 488\A 2il r~ CAR~QDY S'EAL CAR~OOY 1 1'1 Tf'D!SCO !\l OJT GUGI JC STurF\S 0MVLfll S1~RS 30 >T G•;•IIO ~QtJcS WALK!'~ G·iGI !0 OUT, KP.LLY t~ WAcKER ~!SSf'S S~~RS 2~ I'T DF~!O STEALS ARBA 1 rT WA.i(FQ i'ui'i~'1VFll C~•RS 25 I'T 'FDt sea H r:-r t•~t C FOUL 5 TFD l S:A DF~lO QLJT, l:llll~~ t\ r<nrseo ~!SSE~ FFJt:t_ seo<iE 'FDt s:o ~n n TED!SCD ·~JLS D!LLO~ 'DISCO ~JT. ABilA 1\ :)]c< D~ \AI(O') 01LLO~ '-'!~S\c; c.\li;;ioi)v 1\> rT •t~AL SCJ~t 6 4;54 ~ 4•6_i 64~66 b6~()6 .. t.6=-6T r. a: 6 e 12 9 .. ~- T 8 .e I 0 4 0 42 1 u-- --~--- -- a Professor who is rather well known around as one of its best plavers. In the first game Lo managed to keep the score fair]~· close. losing 17-21. In the second _game l.o was heaten 12-21. Working from the second seat. Jay King also faces a 1 er\· stron!! R. P .I. player. .Ja~· got off to a good lead in the first game hut was quick lv quieted hy a vicious forhand that retired him with two consecutive losses at I o-21 and 14-21. In the third seat. Deepak Gaiiar. a transfer from SCC faced a more evenly matched opponent. Deepak crushed his opponent in the first 11ame winning 21-10. But in the second and third games R. P.l. recovered to win the set. 21-16 and 21-IR. In the fourth seat. Stan Wiskoski who never has time to practice and onlv t hi\ \·ear switched mer to the eastern stvle table tennis hat and grip was the onl\· { Tnionite ahle to ~teal a \ icton· from the R. P. I competition. It took him three \'Cf\. demanding p:ames and the final scores were. 21-X. 14-21 and 25-23. Chris Whitne~·. seated So. 5. althou)!h a verv promising and practicing freshman suffered a cold ~treak al!ainst his R.P.I. opponent. His scores fell at IJ-21 and 14-21. In the final event. l.o and .Ia\'. plaving as a douhles team bewildered R.P.I. Union easil~· won the match with scores of 21- 1 5 and 21-13. A lthou)lh this is Union's first vear of official competition. the team is not one to he looked upon I ip:htlv. {Inion could verv well hecome part of the national intercollegiate circllit includin!l teams like M.I.T .. Columbia. and fi:.a~oi:oiiuOioo~ooii•iiu:O,ooiioiioo:iioo;'i:ooi'ioii .. :ii .. iioliuii'iuiiooiio'iiooiiiniiooiiioa:=-ie:oiiuii~e~;;;ioMii:NNiioNh;;;;;;;;Ui .. iUlattiiioiiaiitHiisieltti'ioouo:eieoiiniioiioo:iiunoo~•'!/~ Princeton who travel as far as ! ~PRI\<, ro1 R~t <Jf·FIRI\c;~- 74 ! Seattle. Washin_gton and Miami :. Cfli'R'>f I 0< \TIO\' nH· H'\11 I\'STRt'(TOR: to compete tn Table T enni~ ; Tenni'P Court' '11.-W. IO:.'~O.& 11:30 Hinrkle~ • i T·Th to:.lO& Jl:.lO 1\lden matches. I • -\rch<ry c;ym ()ffire 'VI.·W. 1:10 Hincklo) V.eight Training r;vm 'VI.·\\. 1:.10 'VIichel'\n c;eneral C nndirioning T .- Th. 1:10 'VIichel,en l.nrro.-o(~irl'l r.vm Floor 'VI.·\\ .·1 . .H0-4:30 Hincklo\ Paddlehall ( ourt T.·lh. I11:30·11:.10 Everling Sllmna,tir. Wre•tling Rm. 'VI.·W,·Th. Jl:.lO·t :.lO V.ekk ( .olf Heldhou<e f.. Th. HO 'icanlon 'iiudent Trainer (See John I\ !den - Training Rnnm. c;,m) ( CJUflif' 'iwim·Begin ·lntennediate .... ..,, f-Ield Hflrkc• \\\' Pnnl Pnnl c;vm Floor T.·L 1:10·2:1<; 'VI.·Th. 2:4-.·.l:.lO \>1 ·Th. 1:\0-!:4<; l.·lh. 1:10-4: lO \1aJ!t'r \1aj!N' \It agee Hinckle\ IGill:tl~tnCIDC!tG6aa811DifHIIICI•I••trtltlt•t .. 018I!IIMMIMIIIItHIMMIIJeltostDaaUIDit811111t·····llleiiWZ!: Dave\s· Mens Shop 453 State St. (downtown Schenectady) - rosters he turned into the athletic Intramural department (Coach Magee) as Swimming Meet soon as possible prior to To he held Wednesdav. March Tuesday. March 26. Please!! 20 and Thursdav. March 21 at Other Spring lntramurals 4:45 p.m. for fraternit:v and This sprin_g in addition to the House teams. This meet will he actiwlv participated in softball open to men and women. with leagues. a number of special the one restriction that a mini- cYents will he presented for hoth mum of 6 from a group is individual and team recognition. necessary to gain entry points for The ~pecial events will be of one their team. This meet is not open or two davs duration. and will he to varsitv swim team members. promoted hy the athletic S·wim coach. Boh Magee. will department a week prior to the conduct the meet with swim team •• , ..... , ..• r.-~····.r.-. ··-.r··~-~·· -.·.- ..... r.- .... 311 r.1Cm hers serving as officials. \ ....... ._~ ............ ~ .••• _ ........ ~41!--. ···'!~.ti-··· .•• • ... ~-.-~·!~---.~~·fliP' .. ~ ... ~ \\ ; . .:> Anyone interested in~--- $ writing short weekly articles~:} 1111 .. (.~ on either Varsity Tennis, Golf, 1 I or J. V. Lacrosse, please call J~ ~ y ~ Bart Mercer, Sigma Chi, 346- ~ Dave's. Mens Shop ~ 9582. Don't forget. the first ::~ 453 State St. ;. •• < home Baseball game of next ~ I term is the first Wednesday of E\1 (downtown Schenectady} ;~ the spring term at 2:30 p.m. ~~·. ~::.;:;.:.;.:;;;;;;..;.;.;,;;.,;;.;.~;:;:,;:;;:;;~--1 ~~~;:~~t4§;~~:~•~:-:~!sr,:::~~~~::;:§D~~~?~ FRIDAY & SATURDAY 5·12 P.M. BUD BY THE PITCHER Maurice Graubart & Sons ~HIS IS HFRSHFI. MAliRICF. A\J ll WAI TFR GRAl'flAR r AT (,RAliRAR T & SONS. SCHF\'FC !ADYS 0! OFST f'A'VIll y JFWFI FRS WF VFRY SF! DOM <\DVFRTISF Ol'R ltFPA!R DF~<\RTMFNT RFCAPSF WF 1\RF K~PT Rt'SY MOST OF- THF fiMF ~Fill TKF TO MFNT!O\J THJ\T WF Clf-FFR A COMPIFTF RH'AIR SFRV!Cr. ON WATCHfS A\D TIWFI RY !TFMS m•R WA TCII RFPA!RS ARF llONf RY IHICIF\Jl. Hf(iHIY SKII!!Tl W~IC. HM.AKFRS 1\'IJJ) Ol'R WORK IS <il'I\R ·\'\ T H!J JO Bf SA_T ISl--A( fORY (WR R! PAIR SHOT' Wl!H Ol'R OW'\ .II W fl TRS \-'<T ll!AMOI\ifl '-;1 Ill R<, < -\'\ PT Rl<lRM \f{Jt..;! lf'Y\IIIn Rl T AIRS RFMPviRI R (,R'\l'lli\Rl & t..;O'\S HlH Hll IAflll SIR VIC! ., 166 .lAY ST. SCHENECTADY i ' !f: j ,. I ; I !~{ I ! I I ~ i 'I l I ( . ! ,{ \f II,! :~ !! r r (),' 'r ' ~ ' t. l. &l ._ i' I! 1\ :I \:!' ·\) i I '' ! Vol. Vo: 0ffice May the dec tic on v same Pet availa 19. Offic~ petiH4 Frida .-\ctiv be c Comr A I follov Jur rhis meml winn( Boar< stude e ligib Pn pres1 comn the stude vote. Vic Body Comr stude are e: Se( Secre All s and t Cia Then: Class that ( Chr There: meml Votin This Di' Then down majoi sits o the c; the runni d ivisi folio\ Di, ~ 7 .I t 1!~: ·\ Ji h ti 7

