-0 IY Jt 1e h, ly .o st d a :r d d i. g I, g t, . ' - m >nth. ·and ating 'ry in yDe. e w.in a·ting with :aver Trow :vent won but 1 to 1ally •thet j up r for ctor ents the .ann ond 'ints 1mp ond The annual me~norial services fot the Union College sense of . HumQr will not be held this year due to lack of Interest. two d~tys after p11ttlng. •a -new bulb in the •long-defunct Jpmppost on the path to Lent11.; Road, Maintenance removed the entir.e lamppost and replanted lt down <eampns• Way-to go,.Maintenance. \This constitution ... reaffitms the role of the Student Body in promoting the· welfare of the College Community.\ Q. -····- ---·-- ---· ~S&QJ:Zl .... \; ..... > . .. j ;rtrr'i?.' r - ·- __ \-- J'r\ ~-.-./. a:~•* ~­ . 35 centS ' .. ur--·e · _;II. 1 .. •• Vol. 104, No. 22 Wednesday, May 7, 1975 .... . . .el·~·.~ltLUdt.S . i. L.i.-~ ~t1U':\iii®l# \ . . f - (\' ''tiitfl 'n··· • Hugh Sidey, Chief of Time-Life News Service i'n Washington. Sidey ·to Speak One of the nation's top journalists, Hugh Sidey, Chief of Time-Life News Service in . Washington, D.C., and a regular columnist for TIME, will be here on Thursday, May 15 to spea~ at 8:00 p.m. under the sponsorship of College Lectures Committee and Political Forum on the subject \Th.e Nature of Leadership ... In 1960 Mr. Sidey traveled with Brain -G:hild Presidential Candidate John F. Kennedy on his campaign trail and was one of the reporters in Dallas with the presidential party three years later when President -Kennedy was assassinated. During the summer {)f 1963 his book John F. Kennedy, President: A Reporter's Inside Story (Athenaeum) was published, and quickly made the best seller list. Beginning in April 1966, Hugh Sidey's column, \The Presidency,\ appeared in Life. Upon the demise of that magazine Sidey returned to Time, where he had been Washington correspondent since 1969, with the same by-lined column. In this column Mr .. Sidey has reported ort the Johnson and Nixon administrations. He has accompanied both Presidents on their trips abroad and most recently traveled to the People's Republic of China and to the U.S.S.R. with President Nixon. His second book, A Very Personal Presidency: Lyndon B. Johnson in the White Hou!le (Athenaeum), was published h1 July, 1968. Legit.imacy of New -Student Constitution • 1n -;bY .JONATHAN SCHEER In. the culmination of a most controversial' process, the Steering Committee voted recently to accept and ratify a new student constitution, thus rendering void the previous one, issued in 1971. ln doing so, the framer.s of the;: document, as well as the rest of ..the Steering Committee, entirely circumvented the stringent amendment clause of the previous document, which stated that \a petition signed by one-third of the student body in favor of the amendment must be presented for passage.\ In ratifying the document, which is riorrilally done by either a constitutional convention comprised of elected representatives for that specific purpose or by a plebiscite, the Steering Committee justified their decision to ratify the document by claiming that, in the words of one Question of the members \we are the elected representatives of the students in all matters concerning students.\ The vo_te was unanimous. Two conflicting interpretations concerning the legitimacy of the new document have surfaced in recent week.s. The first, invoked by supporters of the Steering Committee's move, alleges that the destruction of tl).e previous constitution and the implementation of a new one should not proceed under the amendment clause of the old constitution~ because destruction of the document is not equivalent to amendment. Professor William Daniels. in arguing that \the letter of the. old constitution does not prohibit such a move,\ sees the annihilation of the old document as legal and legitimate. In deciding that Union College needed a new constitution, the Steering Committee assigned a sub-committee to author a new document. The sub-committee was composed of two members of the Steering Committee and two members of the College community at large. \In order to get input from the students in this matter,\ said Lee Rimsky, a member of the sub-committee, .. we held four public meetings, two in the fall, and two in the winter.\ Concordiensis has learned that no more than· twenty students were present at any one of the meetings. New Committees . The mosi controversial section of the new constitution·• is found in the by-laws to the student forum, which states: \At the inception of the Student Forum, the two juniors currently representing their class on the Student Steering Committee shall <:ontinue to do so on the Student Forum during their senior years.\ This clause states that not only will the two current junior class members (Jim Kane and Lee Rimsky) of the Steering Committee remain on the fon-1m next year, but they will also serve as student representatives to the All-College Senate without having been elected to that body. Both members voted in the affirmative for the ratification of the constitution. In defense of the clause, Rimsky, co .. authot of the document, stated that the section was included so that \a smooth transition\ to the added power and responsibility of the offices could be effected, and so that \a greater sense of continuity and communication could be realized between members of the Senate and the student body as a whole.\ The Committee on Committees would like to clarify the new committee situation. Every committee except·Social, Film, College Center, Election, and Student Life will decrease in size: the student committees remain the same size. Admissions, Library, Athletic, and Standing of Students Committees remain the same in functions but will experience a decrease in size. Some ·committees have been cqnsolidated and/ or merged, to form a new committee from what was two committees before. They are: Support Services This committee replaces the old Academic Opportunity Committee and the Foreign Students Committee. It will be responsible for policies of these· former committees plus the Upward Bound Program. Presidential Advis~:~ry Board - This committee acts as an advisory committee to the President in· all matters which may be brought to it. It may suggest reassigning of problems to various other committees, and it may appeal any issue directly to the College Senate. It will also act as a corporate ombudsman to handle grievances about anything in the College. On occasion, when vacancies for major posts occur at the College, the committee shall review the particulars for the selection of candidates as well as, perhaps, commenting on the need for the position, From time to time, it may reassess· .the forms and processes of governance. Finally, it shall be responsible for the Continued on Page 10 Both students and faculty have objected to this argument, and they claim that the seating of members on a govetning body witl:!out the direct consent of the community is a violation of the public trust. Professor Charles Tidmarch of Continued on. Page S Peggy Napear, the mother who successfully \did something about it.\ will describe in a lecture in Strauss Lounge at 10 a.m. Saturday morning, May 10, how her daughter developed to the point .of taking .ballet lessons, speaks in ••sentence language,\ and has no learning disabilities - only ten years after she was medically diagnosed as .. spastic, functionally blind and deaf, cross- eyed, hyperactive, mentally retarded, cerebral palsied, and autistic.\ Jane ·now has none of .,... these symptoms - and she never underwent any operation. nQr used braces or crutches during her development. New Chairman Mrs. Napear's book, Brain Child, published last year by Harper & Row, provides the first full account of the step-by-step development to health of a brain injured child. The book is a day- to-day diary of Jane and her family and the hundreds of friends and neighbors who helped Jane work her way to becoming well. In . ·~::r lecture Mrs. Napear will particularly dwell on the first year of life of a child - any child,. well or brain-inj\Qred. She will deal with six areas that are neurologically controlled: visual, auditory, tactile competence, mobility, language, and manual competence. She holds that the neurologically organized and the disorganized brain child are really '\older and younger sisters of the same potential person.'' Refreshments will be served. Sociology Saved The appointment of Dr. Eugene Stewart Schneller of Duke 'University Medical Center's Dep.artment of Community Health Sciences as Associate Professor and Chairman of the Union College Sociology Department has been announced by Dean Martin Lichterman. At Union College, Dr: Schneller will continue his research as the principal investigator of the Physician;s Assistant Career Study he is conducting with a .grant from the Bureau of Health Resources Development in the U.S. Department of Health, Education and Welfare. In. this fol!r-Year study he is directing exploration into the nature of paramedical roles and commitment to careers in primary care • Born at Cornwall, N.Y., April 9, 1943, he prepared for college at Poughkeepsie High School. After first attending the New York State University at Buffalo where he obtained an associate degree, he transferred to C.W. Post College for his bachelor of arts degree. Professor Schneller received his doctorate in sociology at New York University. Dr. Schneller has been, since September 1972, assistant professor of community health sciences at Duke University Medical Center and assistant professor of sociology at Duke University. He was project director of a health services research study at Montefiore Hospital and Medical Center in New York, 1970-72. Schneller is regional liaison officer of the American s·ociological Association section on occu·pations and organizations, and is a member of the medica'l sociology section of AS A. New Chairman of Sociology Department. Dr. Eugene Schn(!ller.

Page2. CONCOR.piENSIS, Wednesday, May 7, 1975 ·. '-~2t ·_ Clhtnrnr8;btnb~ts ... 4~- . Ed1tors-m-ch1ef. .......... .;; .. :;·:.-; ........ Jonathan Scheer Peter Sobol Features Editor ................... Lee Rimsky Culture Editors .................. Mike Affinito .. · David Moskowitz Sports Editors ................. Kevin Crawfo.rd . Barb Dewey Managing Editor .............. · . Lance Travis Copy Editor ..................... Phil Alcabes Contributing Editors ............... Judy D~in Rob Mondschein Bill Talis Business Manager ............... Robin Pellish . National Advertising .............. Betsy Barnet Subscriptions .................... Shelley Gold . Lisa Tietz Photo Staff: Greg Cohen, Dan McManamon, Rich Guardian, Rudy Lu, Arthur Miller, Don Hammerman, Dave Grossman ' · Staff: Bill Plaus, John Busterud, Sue Brickman, Jack Pitney, Matt Brief. Joe Friedman, Clare Walken CONCORDIENSIS- is .published ~very Wednesday by the student body of Union College, Old Gym Hall, Schenectady, . N.Y.; to which Postal Forms 3579 are directed. Publications Office: The Jewish World Publications, 416 Smith St., · · Schenectady, N.Y. 12305 (370-5483). Entered in the Schenectady · Post Office as Second Class Matter. Subscription Rate 35 cents · per ~opy. $8.00 ~year delivered anywhere in'the United States. in the interest of the governed The procedure followed by the Steering Committee in ratifying the Student Constitution (the Constitution took immediate effect when adopted b.y a unanimous vote of' the committee) is nothing short of an affront to .the Student Body of this College. By denying the students - through either constitutional convention or plebiscite - the right to ratify their Constitution, the Steering Committee has flagrantly violated the democratic spirit of Union College. In stressing expediency and efficiency at the expense of proper procedure, the Steering Committee has betrayed the public trust in that body. The question of the legality of the new document has not adequately been answered. The old Constitution did not contain a self-annihilation clause, and in circumventing the amendment procedure outlined in that document - which calls for a petition signed by one-third of the student ·body in favor of the amendment before it can be passed - the members of »the Steering Committee have taken advantage of a loophole in order to work their own will. ln an effort to properly adjudicate this matter, Concordiensis urges the Student Body to petition the Chairman of the LiaisoJ]. and Governance Committee so that that body may resolve all legal complications resulting from the Steering Committee's actions. Upon completion of a proper investigation, we further urge members of the Student Body to call for a town ·meeting, at which time the students can decide whether to accept or reject the document. It is inexcusable to let pr~ctical considerations, such as student elections, to interfere with the implementation of proper parliamentary procedure. Furthermore, although Concordiensis does not doubt that the members of the Steering Committee-acted in what they thouglit to be the best interests of the students, the fact that the two Junior Class representatives, who will knowingly sit on the All-College Senate next year without an election, voted in favor of ratification indicates not only a disregard for ethical standards, but also a lack of faith in their electorate. If the present Junior Class representatives wish to sit on the Senate next year, they should submit themselves to public scrutiny in a general election, offering a platform based on thei.r previously sound performances in Student Government. If they should refuse to do so, the Editors-in-Chief of · Concordiensis are left with no option but to v<;:hemently urge the members of the Junior Class to recall their representatives frorn office and subject them to the will of the electorate. JMS Darryl LiGtion ..... you said it take that pg~ Editors, Concordiensis: Viva the University! The free flow of ideas, the intellectual nucleus of the nation! Life beyond the Ivory Tower may not affect the editors of our witty publication. but it does affect Concordy's constituynts. I for one can't see how destructive (and continual) criticism of Achilles rink d'eserves more attention than campus o.ptntons and interpretations of national and international events. I am not advocating turning Concordy into the Week in Review, but, (like it or not. PGS) the international situation affects us, and some of us find it more \readable';. than a humorous (?) \lift from an otherwise colorless day.\ Jeanne Neumann '76 · ·elarifieation Editors, Concordiensis, I feel I must clarify some points that were made in a letter written. in last week's Concordy entitled \Hale Hell.\ To begin with, I meant no insult to freshmen at Union College. Understandably, many freshmen were upset with the tone of my remarks. Perhaps I was a bit harsh. However, to state my stance in another light, I direct my attack at Saga. for it is their doing, not the freshmen. I should hope that Saga will realize the inadequacies of Hale House, and that plans for the future take into account these inadequacies. Before concluding, l should like to r-emark on the comment appended to my letter. lt must be remembered, Mr. Sobol, that an \important issue'\ is what is personally important.. For myself, and for several others I might add, the situation of meals is most relevant. The quip regarding my seeking ·urban employment was humorous. However, one of the benefits (at least in my mind) of attending a \small'\ school such as Union is that it allows one to get away from the mobs and rushes of bigger universities. If I chose a quiet school for four years, perhaps you can at least understand my being mildly upset with the growmg crowds encountered at the dining halls. In closing, I hopq that other readers of Concordy are not fearful of expressing their views about any issue that they feel is important at Union College lest they too receive the ominous and powerful \PGS\ editor's criticism. Respectively submitted, David Neifeld stomaeh pumps To the editor, Let's hear it for Saga Food (West College Brand)! I've been at Union for 4 stomach pumps (less than a year) and the sheer delight of savoring a mouthful of Saga food still makes me cringe with delight. Why ·· do we let Saga get away with feedmg us this stuff they call food? Why are we being penalized for eating 10 or 14 meals a week? Why can't we let someone else use our meal ticket to eat (as long as we have knowledge of the factT) Why can't we use the back punches on our meal tickets? We paid for them. I've worked for a fast food establishment (Howard Johnson's) and I .k;now it's impossible to make a lot of good food fast. I frankly think Saga is Continued on Page 10 ambiguous Editors, Concordiensis: The attitude expressed in the response to my letter of April 30 contributes immensely to the mediocrity of Concordiensis. Your response was ambiguous. It grossed out Editors, Concordiensis: One weekend last February glimpsed part of a movie sponsored by the freshman class of Skidmore College. It had been advertised in the school newspaper and with little else to d? . on that particular SatUrday mght I called a companion and we went to view the film. What we saw during the next thirty minutes was an insult to our intelligence and to our sensibility as somewhat compassionate beings. We left after half an hour an,.d I wonder how many other people had entered not knowing what they were about to see. That movie was ·Pink Flamingos, which is scheduled to be sho~n b~r~_Q.nJ!._Tuesdav night Continued on Pagt 10 moun tie-s Editors, Concordienses: While reading Clare Walken's article entitled \Drama Department plans several new programs,\ I was very disturbed that Mountebanks involvement in all of the ,f!.rogranis was not even mentioned. Yes, a point was made in discussing the Montebanks' play currently in production, Our Town. but one might be Jed to believe by the context of the article that Our Town is a pmduct of the deJ1artment and not of a student acti'V'ity. Continued on P~ge 1 o hypoerisy diverted attention from the Editors. Concordienses: emphasis of my letter and gave\'a I understand that Mr. William distorted. and thus false, Count Basie will be given an impression· of what I was honorary Doctor of Fine Arts attempting to convey. degree at the annual Prize Day You seem to believe that I am ceremony held during Parents insisting upon the creation of Weekend. There are no doubts in some type of \International my mind that Mr. Basie, through Events\ column which would his many contributions to Jazz, consist of c.omprehensive, deserves an award for his· objective reporting. Though I accomplishments. However, I believe our 'school newspaper Continued on Page 10 should do this I understand the t\'::'::-:::-=~=-----------. editors· reluctance to do so.· CORRECTION What I am requesting is that The letter titled \Overlooked\ Omcordy should be responsive to ~hich appeared in the April 23 any and all opinions of Union Issue of Concordiensis should not College students. This have been included in \You Said responsiveness should manifest lt.\ It was submitted unsigned for itself in the printing of any Speak . Put which no longer intelligently written letter to the. appears In Coneordy. 1t does not editors (opinion), addressing itself _represent, the view of the . to pertinent issues of the day - W om~ n . s Caucus or the 0 Commtsston on the Status of continued on Page 1 Women. --------------------~ •

t ry I ovie to and our her nk to w s' 0 a • CONCOR1JI£NSIS, Wednesday, May 7, 1975 .... , Ned Hark.Dess: The Ice~- Man Conteth by DAVID EILBOTT and STEVEN LEVINE On Friday December 5th, 1975 the Union College ice hockey team will open its home season against the Royal Military College of Ontario, Canada. At the helm will be Ned Harkness, in his 26th year of coaching college hockey. Harkness has directed the Cornell and RPI ice hockey teams to national pr<>minence, and also coached the Detroit Red Wings for 5 years. Upon leaving the Red Wings. where he was \not able to control his own destiny,\ Harkness desired a return to the college ranks, where players \want to win for hockey's sake, the winning sake and the school's sake.\ He picked Union because of its reputation as an excellent small college; in addition, his father coached hockey and la£ross here, his brother is 'a Union graduate, and his wife is from the area. Players Express Interest The U\!lion ice, hockey team in its maiden season will be playing 24 games, mostly against Division II opponents. Harkness envisions a strong forechecking and skating club where finesse and speed will be stressed (a ia the Montreal -c a n a d i e n s ) . S i n c e t he announcement of the hiring of Harkness, almost J 15 high school hockey players have applied to Union; m~ny, however, have been rejected for lack of academic credentials. Harkness believes ·that a strong academic background is essential for anyone inv()lved in intercollegiate sports. and he asserts that \the best player is a smart player.\ In regard to recruitment, since NESCAC guidelines prohibit a coach from personally approaching a potential athlete, Harkness has worked extensively through Union alumni and. through the many contacts he has accumulated over the years in all ranks of the hockey establishment. He anticipates that the hockey team will be predominantly composed of Americans, with a few Canadians on the team each year. Social Skating In trying to develop the Achilles rink into a viable· athletic and student center, Harkness, as rink manager, has been working closely with Dean Smith, Bruce Allison, Tom Kershner of the Athletic Committee, Doug Alcaide of the Social Committee, and Gale Knull of the Intramural Pwgram. The rink will be open 21 hours a day, from 5 a.m. to 2 a.m. Time will be allotted for ho·ckey team practice, intramurals, figure skating, and free skating. While at Cornell, Harkness developed an excellent intramural program, and he predicts that intramural hockey here at Union will generate great student interest. Schenectady residents will also be able to utilize the rink on a limited basis. and the Schenectady school system and Youth Hockey programs may make use of it during the early morning hours. Such a utilization of the Achilles rink. Harkness predicts, will lead to a strengthening of the \town- and-gown relationship.\ Even though the hockey and basketball seasons coincide, Microcosmic College by R.B. THAU A common criticism of colleges recently, and Union is certainly no exception, is that they are not microcosms of the so-called \real world\ the phase of our lives that we enter after graduat~on. The real world, was a competitive, . dog-eat-dog, Tilt -race where everyone cared only for themselves, concerned only with their· futures and not with the future of their community or society. It was a world where people made no active effort towards improvement, but where they criticized and complained freely and boisterously that nothing was getting done. In a last gasp of my fading idealism I defended Union, our venerable and staid institution of higher learning, as being different from the real world, as being \out of touch with reality\ in a certain way. But then, as I looked back in retrospect at my chauvinism for this place, I noted with horror just how wrong l was about things. To defend Union as not being a microcosm is to , deny relevancy in our education. It then became obvious that by saying Union was not a microcosm I was in effect insulting the school. We should Phi Beta Kappa Forty seniors and nine juniors were elected to membership in Phi Beta Kappa, the national scholarship honor society, at a meeting of the Union College Chapter (Alpha of New York) on May I. Those elected were: . Stephen E. Beck Jeffrey M. Benay Michael A. Bernstein Helen M. Billak Patricia D. Bohen Susan W. Brecher Lois E. Brustman Laura J. Chakrin Larry D. Edmonds Howard J. Eisenson Robert P. Fein Paul D. Ferguson Debra L. Glasser Nina L. Halpern Valerie J. Hoffman JeffS. Holik Janet Klosko Frank H. Krautter Patricia Krejci !1ichard H. Lamm SENIORS JUNIORS Moira Lang Robert S. Lazar Barry S. Markman Thomas G. Matthews Marjorie R. Mitchell David M. Neifeld Christine L. Nielsen Marc B. Perlman Robert G. Pfifferling Marcia E. Podgorski Laurence A. Primack Deborah A. Scribner Darby Siegel Michele S. Silver Babs R. Soller Richard M. Sommer Arthur R. Vakienier. III John M. WalkeF Stephen D. Wayne Alison J. Winhold Michele A. Paludi William J. Plaus Mark E. Rosenthal Richard D. Semble consider ourselves extremely fortunate that we are a microcosm because we have the built-in advantage over other schools of not being surprised by what will be encountered after graduation. Union is so good at what it does, though, that is goes past the point of merely reflecting what the major components of the real world are, for the school epitomizes them. In fact, it might be said by the over-enthusiastic -that \Union is where it's at.\ Those who say that the outside world is competitive have not seen this place. We transcend the dog-eat-dog world with our own brand of student -eat-student attitude. The most aroused this campus has ever been was during· the controversy over the possibility of changing the system of grading. It was one of our greatest failures that the twelve- point system was not implemented, for that would have made us even more competitive and better prepared to meet the challenge of the outside world. We have wronged the pre-meds here by insulting their competitive, get-ahead instincts as bad for education. Yet the pre- meds were correct straight from the beginning in judging the value of the Union College experience. Only this group with their reputed backsta:bbing and throat-cutting knew that these attitudes are valuable in preparing for the world that lies beyond· graduation. We have also insulted the mass of students for its apathetic approach towards virtually all facets of college life. It is necessary now to apologize to the apathetic for the attacks upon their character. They, better than Page3 Harkness guarantee& that there will be no conflicts between the two teams on home dates. He adds that \there will be no more dark weekends in regard to sports activity,\ since there will almost always be scheduled either a home basketball or hockey game. New Concert Hall In working with the Social Committee, Harkness has been preparing the Achilles rink for concerts and other social events including ice shows and perhaps even exhibition professional · hockey games. For hockey games AchiUes rink will have approximately 3000 seats, but for concerts the rink will accommodate up to 5500. Such a seating capacity may create parking .problems, and Harkness has been working with the Athletic Committee in attempting to solve that problem. An Answer to our Problems . In addition to an extensive intramural hockey -program, there will be skating fundamental courses and hockey clinics offered. Harkness foresees that, in time, the rink will become the focal point for athletics on campus. The locker rooms during the hockey off-season will be used for other sports, and the new enlarged trainer's room will be utilized throughout the year. Harkness believes that Achilles rink will be the most beautiful and efficient rink of its size in the country. and he predicts that if it is used properly, it will provide the answers to many of Union's athletic and social problems. anyone else, have shown us the right direction. In a nation comprised of good, solid citizens we are. a democracy . of the apathetic. We can best prepare for good citizenship and what lies ahead. by not caring or doing anything about it. And since this attitude is the keynote of Union, we are indeed a microcosm of society in this important respect. Fortunately, it is understood even by the lowliest here that every quality and every characteristic of this College we are responsible for. For each accomplishment we afe deserving of praise. and for each failure we are to blame. It is aLo reassuring to know that if we are not satisfied in being a microcosm of the real world, the talent and ability is within our midst to alter that which is inconsistent with what is deemed beneficial t~ us. We may only have the powers and abilities of mortal men, but that is usually enough. Philip G. Alcabes Thomas 1: Baca Helen C. Kennicott Alan Kusinitz Robert S. M orette These newly elected members will be initlated at a ceremony. in the Hale House garden on Monday, May 26. What kind of man reads Concordy? The connoiseur, the man with discrimination. FACT: More people read Concordy than can be h~used in the Schenectady County jail.

.CONCORDIENSIS, Wedne~dqy, May 7, 1975 .. , •' ~ ' 'i . ' . ~. '._ .... } :~--,....::~ .. ;r .·. Clams Come to College photos hy L.N. Kadack 11. by R.B. THAU and SKWITZ There was a clambake Saturday. It was fun. Alice and Jerry were there. They had fun. John was there, too. He had fun. P.S.: They had .clams, too. They were good. (Some had · sand in them though. The sand wasn't good.) ., . . .•. • •, tL < ~~· I,;'./ f• ·,/\>:.•':·-\ \.·--[;,~::~~~:·: '·i:~:~~ ·'--·~·· ,,; . : · .. _· .. : .. r,,.'. ~ .... t!J~ ... ~-~. ~7--;ntt::.h !t} 4 ••• ·!.

- _' i I <;' ' ' • 1 f ' .: ;· ' •' ·' ,• \ ~ ? \ ~ I : ' ( l ~ ( : ) f ( I' } CONCORDIENSIS. Wednesday, May 7, 1975 . . . . -.r·· . ~· - - - ~«I :I Page5 Wild Wild West Publish or Perish Fifteen-hundred miles glued to a saddle, the Big Dipper your ·rooftop, Mother Earth your mattress, Texas Longhorns your bunkmates. The northern cattle drives drag~ed oil forev.er, eating away at the trailhands like the harsltest of Dakota winters. So after three inonths of rustlers, coyotes, and baked beans, the lonesome independent cowboy of the old West anxiously anticipated some lively times at the end of the tumbleweed trail. And if he couldn't find them, he made his own. But most times there awaited enough fast hands, quick deals, and cheap booze to keep him more occupied than General Custer at the Little Big Horn. And the western oasis that most often corralled him in his eager quest to quench his fr6ntier lusts was the 'f own Saloon, a sinner's paradise of boozing, gambling, dancing and catting; where you bumped into all kinds of wayward characters, steel-eyed gunslingers, fast-talking con men, big-hearted saloon girls; all of them seeking some sort of action. No one could ever ,predict the outcome of an evening's activities in one of these prairie palaces, but nobody grew bored; <leaq - maybe, but never bored! night, May 17th, The Lodge recaptures the wild,- and reckless spirit of an era that barely survived one generation, but yet captivated the hearts and minds of millions, the Wild, Wild West. The entire house will be transformed. For ope night the Chi Psi .Lodge becomes the Chi Psi Saloon, complete with an old- time' casino and separate beer (15 kegs) and booze bars. A seven-. piece .banjo . band will play the dance hall. There will be plenty of .our ancient recipe \Dodge City Death Punch,\ granting the · unique opportunity to test your· absorption ability with Kid Cheleene and Calamity Jane. Prizes for best costumes will be awarded, and like last year· everyone is urged to dFess smoothly if they cannot round up some sort of western garb. by JUDY DEIN Several of the recent tenure decisions have caused much discontent among the students and faculty ·(.)f Union College. Since the tenure criteria are shrouded in mystery, the cry was often raised that it was the old \publish or perish\ syndrome which ended the Union career of several promtsmg faculty members. Concor~y decided to discover the true importance of publication in deciding salary increments, promotions, and tenurability. What was found was an even more complex mystery. Apparently there is no written position on the issue of publish or perish. The significance and evaluation of published reseaFch does not follow any set criteria, an<!_. . .is based on mere oral traultion. What follows comes from an interview with Provost Enteman. The Provost is now involved in setting up Union's policy, in writing, on publishing requirements. He has completed a draft of a proposal but it is far from complete, and is based only on his perceptions of the situation. He is opell to comments and criticisms of his ideas. The positions stated in the following interview are Enteman's alone, and do not represent those of the ad, ministration. argue that publication is overt evidence~ of scholasticism and dedication to a field of study. The Proyost, on the other hand, makes a sharp distinction between publication and research, and, while he stresses the need for professors who are \deeply dedicated to their discipline,\ he disagrees strongly with the supposition that publication means scholarly work and dedication. Enteman considers research necessary while publication, in his opinion, is not. He is strongly opposed to professors'taking time away from their students to engage in work on topics in which the professor is not interested, or whiCh have nothing new to offer to their field. Such publication, according to the Provost, is not evidence of dedication; it is merely a waste of titne and an- inconvenience to students and faculty alike. You .remember last year: flappers, follies, and bathtub gin. ' This time around it's bar girls and \Do~ge City Death Punch.\ Chi Psi announces its third annual S.pring Happening. On Saturday But it has been declared a Chi Psi Weekend, and so it will be. Friday evening, the 16th, The Lodge is proud to present a coffeehouse, featuring the folk- rock group, August. This quartet from Long Island has played at numerous bars on the Island and performed on college campuses as far away as western Pennsylvania. The donation for the entire weekend (both parties) is $2.50, for Saturd,ay only is $2.50, and Friday alone, $1.00 (pay at the door. that is if room is still available). Both events will begin at 9 p.m. Proceeds will go to the National Hemophilia Foundation. Mittal and Energy Special to Concordiensis A · five-:day intensive technical Administration. Also included institute on \Effects of Energy will J>e Donald Hill, ·of the public Constraints on Transportation accounting firm of Peat, Marwick Systems.\ will take place at Union & Mitchell, Washington, D.C.; College this summer, Aug. 4-8. Jemme Hinlde, of the U.S. Dean Weifenback, head of Environmental Pollution Agency; graduate studies and special Dr. Robert McGillivray, of the programs. announced that the Urban Institute, Washington, course director for the institute D.C.; Michael Miller, of the wifl be Dr. Ram K. Mittal, Boeing Commercial Airplane Co.; Assistant Professor of Mechanical Henry Peyerbrune, director of Engineering and director of planning, New York State Dept. Un!on's professional engineering of Transportation. review courses. A Union College Certificate Mittjil.has organized a national will be awarded to participants grouP of energY and upon successful completion of transportation experts who will· this summer course. Tuition has present their work and lead been reduced to $300 and will institute discussions in seven include a manual of course notes. P r i n ci Pal are as : energY Participants, and their spouses, consumption within the will be able to live in campus transportation .sector; historical residence halls. and future trends in energy ln speaking of the importance consumption; modal energy of the institute's subject matter, comparisons; strategies for energy Dr. Mittal said: .. American conservation, car pools,. e,fficient society is dependent upon ~odes of transportation, petroleum energized behavioral changes, rationing, automobiles, buses, trucks, trains, etc.; study of effects of various airplanes, and ships for urban patterns on personal travel movement of passengers and needs; study of innovative freight. During the past t venty tee h no I o gi ca 1 modes of years. railroads and ships have transportation for both passenger shifted from coal to diesel oil fuel, an d go o d s move men t s; and gasoline-powered air travel environmental, energy, and has greatly increased. Energy transportation interfaces. efficient modes of transportation In addition to Professor Mittal, such as buses and trains have the institute's faculty members declined.\ · will include: Professor Frank The nation's dependence upon Cesario -of Cornell University; imported oil \can be moderated,\ Professor Jerry Edwards, 1 · M' 1 b \ University of Minnesota, cairns .Itta' Y ~ew energy Minneapolis; John Edwards, conservation . strategt~s. as a deputy director, N.Y. State consequence of .decis.tons ~y Em F I Off . governmental bodies, mdustnal .. ergency ue tee; · d · d' 'd 1 \ Lectwres Dr. William T. Tucker, Jr. of General Electric Company's corporate research and development center, will deliver a lecture on \Bayesian Allocations\ on Thursday afternoon at 4:15 p.m. in Bailey Hall. Sponsored by the Institute for Administration and Management at Union College, Dr. Tucker's talk will pr.ovide management executives and those preparing for management careers his first hand observations of the employment of Bayesian methods in reliability analyses. Dr. Tucker is a statistical consultant for General Electric. He develops and applies statistical techniques to problems in the areas of business and engineering, quantitative methods, modeling in geophysics, time series analysis, and st()chastic 374-5921 GEORGE'S MUSIC STORE Student Discounts 508 State St. Schenect~dy Alexander French U S compa.mes, .an m !Vl ua s. D f T ' . · · RegistratiOn for the Summer epartm~nt 0 · ransportatiOn; Institute should be made with the TYPING Reasonable Rates Fast Service Dr. David Hartgen, New York· · · . . · State D - 1 f T t f . U mon College Office of Spectal ep · .? , ranspor a 10n, Programs, I Union Ave., Pr~fess?r Timothy J. He:;tly, Schenectady, N.Y. 12308. Umverstty of Santa Clara (Cahf.);' Dr. Eric Hirst, Federal Energy Vernine's ; Plant Room FERRO'S PHARMACY 'STUDENT DISCOUNr . 575 Nott St. 177-1511 346-9319 393 .. 2233 721 ALTAMONT AVE • NO DELIVERY CHARGE Wlffl._ TWO fiZZAS WIDIUYU .,..._MIDNIGHT CaDJ7UM This article is .the first in a series which will . e:x.pound the different points of view on the importance of publication at Union. The opinions expressed in the series, along with the feedback gained by the Provost who is circulating a few copies of his proposals, will hopefully be coordimtted into a full' report, and faculty will know what exactly is expected of them in the field of publication. It must also be noted that the issue of publish or perish being discussed is relevant only to Union College and what is best for this school. _ The Provost repeatedly stated that not demanding_ publication does not diminish its importance. F acuity should be encouraged and supported in their publishing endeavors. However, people should not be forced to publish, they should do so only if they want to, and/ or have something new to say. In regard to recent tenure decisions, the Provost denied emphatically that lack of publication has ever been the sole reason for denial of tenure. He also stated that faculty members without any publications have, at times, been tenured. In conclusion, the Provost wrote in his proposal, \we have every right and every reason to expect that faculty members at Union will be engaged in substantial, sustained, and significant research, and we have every right and every -reason to evaluate the quantity and quality of that research. We take the position (l do) that genuine scholarly research on the part of the faculty is necessary to good teaching and necessary to the kind of institution we wish to develop here.\ __ Accordipg to Provost Enteman, ''the fundamental business of this institution should be the education of undergraduates. Everything else should serve to enhance that mission. Education is provided in many ways, but the Enteman also distinguishes between different fields of study and the ability to get research published in each field. \lam told (and I believe) that in some fields any research which is of a significant nature will end up in a referred publication. l am told (and I believe) that in some other fields, a considerable amount of serious scholarly work could be done and it might never find its way into a referred publication.\ The Provost cited the Arts Department as a prime example· of the harm which can be caused by reqmrmg publication. Members of that department are hired because of their artistic abilities. and while they may not be encouraged to continue their art work, they may he required to publish literary woFks. The Provost feels that this is a great misuse of the faculty's talents. Enteman is as adamant about the necessity for faculty to do scholarly research, however, as he is in his claim that publication cannot always be equated with dedication or scholarship. Instead of \publish or perish,\ Enteman would like to see \research or perish\ at Union. He is a great believer in a professor's need to keep abreast of the new theories and ideas in his field. Enteman feels that Union is now and should continue, moving towards demanding of faculty memb.ers evidence of their research. While the evidence should be written, it need not necessarily be published. He feels that no one will really have difficulty in showing evidence of their studies if they have done the work. As for evaluation of faculty research, Enteman proposes the following procedure: \One might ask the faculty member to explain, perhaps to the department chairman, what the central way is through teaching. Thus. nothing is more important to this institution than the quality of the teaching which we provide for students.\ An argument for requiring publication by faculty members is that it ensures continued research on their part. Many feel that such research can only enhance the quality of toaohing -h':'s ~\' · natu~e of his research project is, how 1t would fulfill a test of being substantial, significant, and Continued on page 7 ))aye's Mens Shop ( $.State St. It do-esn't come every day It doesn't t~ke ·very long It doesn't hurt to help THE BLOODMOBILE Will be at Union from 11:00 until 5:00 on Thursday, -May 8 and 9:00 untif3:00 on Friday, May 9.

Page6 , t ~ ' · l ' 1 ~ .. t • 1 • , •ts:ON!!:O'RDTENSJS, Wednesday, May 7, 1975 arts Santi's Jazz Group returns to the Union College Cabaret on Thursday night. Stop by for fine fare and the best in entertainment. photo by Greg Cohen Records: Lampoon's 'Turkey' fails to amuse by DAVID MOSKOWITZ Perhaps the. cover of Gold Turkey says it best: a bunch of people staring mesmerized at an enormous, sparkling gold-plated turkey. This scene is representative of a great deal of the material on Gold Turkey - elaborately produced, but in the end unsuccessful, sick humor. Gold Turley is the third album produced by the same minds responsible for 'National Lampoon magazine. For the. reader of the illustrious example of warped thinking, nothing on Gold Turkey will be surprising. On the other hand, the unindoctrinated may be startled by the bluntness with which the album inundates the ivory towers of. society. Gold Turkey is comprised of 20 cuts representing the self- proclaimed \greatest hits\' from the Lampoon's now defunct Radio Hour program. As an advertisement for Gold Turkey expounds, Radio Hour was \the program with too much courage to stay on the air.\ In reality, what doomed Radio Hour was the growing number of alienated and offended listeners and sponsors. Reactions like this help explain the humor basis of the National Lampoon : absolutely nothing and no one is sacred. Targets of the Lampoon include politicians · (from the Left and Right), magazines. nostalgia, sentiment, all religions, minorities, majorities.... everything. A perufoal of a National Lampoon collection usually arouses more gasps of amazement at deviant Lampoon visions of reality than outright laughs. Lampoon humor does not consist of 'jokes' in the traditional sense, but rather a representation of reality viewed through semi- CrJized eyes. This realistic approach is handled easiest on paper: magazine type-styles can be imitated, ads can be redone, photographs can be staged. Lampoon stage efforts (Lem- mings is an example) are far less successful- relying on individual talents for copying reality. Lampoon's best hours can be seen in works like the .. 1964 Highschool Yearbook\ parody, in which an actual yearbook is recreated and satirized at once. Transferred to vinyl the effect is less successfuL Gold Turkey's startlingly realistic audio imitations of football coaches, newsreels, folk singers, Patricia Neal, AI Jolson, sci-fi serials, et. al., sound so much like real life that they are impossible to laugh at. The laughs that do exist are those that can be seen more through a comic eye. . Looking at the few highlights of the album there is first \The Immigrants,\ a travelogue-like tale describing the great hillbilly migration to the United States. Satirized are the ,hillbilly's countries of origin: \I don't like it here in France... everybody's so snobby!\ \Yeah and I can't read the menus;\ the dr,eam of the land of the free: \In America, they got real fine schools- you can go right on up to the first grade.\ .. Yeah, and they got lots of refrigerators for the kids to play in;\ and. the immigration service: ''Race?\ \Hillbilly.\ \Country of origin?\ ••Italy.\ .. N a·me?\ .. Name's Michelangelo Bonaroti.\ .. Now what kind of a name is that for an American? From now on you're M.C. Boone.\ Still, this cut ends on an even less funny beat, with a description relating hillbillies to cancer, incest, black lung disease and to someone called Arthur Hillbilly Jean King. Another funny spot is a bit called •• Alternative Child,\ a radio show discussing the amazing abilities of two year old children raised in a survival camp ( .. Debbie here won a bronze medal at Munich... last week 1-te swam 200 miles upstream in the Columbia River ... \)- still, the story ends again on a sick note with the manslaughter of one of · the children. Most pf the rest of the album misses the mark even more completely. The AI Jolson \A Laugh from the Past\ recording (it's supposed to be the real thing) seems endless in its description of J o'lson's preference for \perfor.ming\ over the death of a friend. \Terminal Football\ is awful- a football coach dolefully tells his players of the diseases they have. The supposed funniness of coffee commercial favorite Patricia Neal's stroke is explored with perverse glee in ''My Husband.\ ihe list goes on: a new hockey penalty for high sticking - the guillotine (and for those who weren't repulsed the first time - slow motion!). National Lampoon humor simply does not translate to the recording media. The negativism and realism of their satire suppresses much potential laughter- and probably obscures whatever constructive message is being made (if any). Lenny Bruce once said, \It's not me who's sick, it's society. I'm just scrciety's doctor,\ If Gold Turkey is intended to be serving the .same function, the patient may as well be dead. Concerts: Evening of Zappa recei\te·s raves by ARNIE HILLER The ••renowned Mathers\ arrived in the tri-state area prematurely to fit in with the upcoming festivities that Will surround Parents Weekend at Union. Their arrival, although virtually unpublicized, received the rave reviews normally re~erved for the more \popular\ artists who perform in town. Fl'ank Zappa and his Mothers of Invention have. however, long been one of the few acts capable of consistently generating interest in rock music. J:t was truly a grand premiere for the eight musicians who now comprise the Mothers, when the Palace Theatre presented them to an instant sell-out crowd. The enthusiasm which surrounds Zappa, wherever anc;t whenever he performs, is certainly not difficult to decipher. Those followers of rock music recognize that Frank Zappa has passed through many stages in hi& music. His earliest works depict the epitome of underground rock musicilmship in their biting social commentary. Freak Out, an appropriate title . for such an album, irked many people, wh.o found it simply to .be an album of words, with only a partial musical base: Unfortunately, the true merit of Zappa, a highly talented musician, was subjected to a lesser role than the message he sought to portray. This malady, in retrospect, was the real difference between the fly-by-night \acts\ which surface from time to time and the real genius which is Frank Zappa. The cynicism concerning American cti)ture soon became partially obscurecf by the innovative mixture of rock and jazz progressions which Zappa's music had evolved into. Today's Mothers, who, with the exception of everybody's favorite, Willy the Pimp, performed exclusively new material, were bolstered by the guest appearance of Captain Beefbeart; the Captain was featured on sqprano sax and back-up vocals on most numbers. Along with the driving bass guitar provided by Tom Fowler, and the exceptional drumming of Ralph Humphries, the band consisted o_~. Bruce Fowler on trombone, George Duke on keyboards, and a second guitar player, who as yet remains nameless. Of course, the Mothers will always focus on t·he brilliant guitar work ·which is Zappa. Frank Zappa is thoroughly trained and versed- in all expressions of music, and provides the leadership which makes for the tightness and precise orchestration which exemplifies the Mothers l;ive. This band, unlike many of his others, uses an exciting stage show which begins · with the group's entrance on stage to the beat of a flashy stmbe light show. -Centering on the bizarre movements of the musicians, the strobe. was totally effective in captudng the audience's imagination, which was augmented by the superb so.und system which the band uses. Frank Zappa is truly a major figure in the American rock picture, in his innovative and exciting approach to music. He is a mysterious figure both on and off stage, who is able to maintain absolute control of his music, \Scarecrow\ is an original off-heat · film drama starring Gene Hackman and AI Pacino. The Warner Bros. release tells the fresh, funny and very moving story <if two drifters trying to make it towards a better, happier life - away from skid rows, away from jail, away from losing. Gene Hackman, who won the Aca- demy Award last year as best actor for his performance in \The French Con· nection,\ stars in \Scarecrow\ as Max, a tough brawler just released from a California jail. AI Pacino, who skyrocketed to fame in \The God· father,\ stars as Lion, a clowning kid jsut home from five years of life at sea. \Scartcrow\ was produced by Robert M. Sherman, with Jerry Schatzberg directing. Schatzbert pre- viously directed \Panic in Needle Park,\ a widely-acclaimed film that gave AI Pacino hi_s first screen role. FRIPA Y, MAY 9, 10:00 SAT., MAY 10, 1, 9, 11 SUN., MAY 11 1 . 7, 9,.11 Wrrllen by GARRY MICHAEL WHill· P•ctiLic.l I, 'l0:itil! '.' .'e£~'!~\ ~~~cte~ t') JERRY SCHAT~B!RG PANAVISIO/l'\ llt:HNICOLOR'< .o{jJ,;:;;.;;.;!:-7t1,.:.::':::•] Celebrai~R Warner Bros 50th Aoo\t'sa'l 0·1 1\ ~·\\ ~\'~ .·.:n• •• ;;.,:·1·, - f (l s ( t t ' ( f l I ' ,,

Page6 CONCORD!ENSJS, Wednesday, May 7, 1975 arts Santi's Jazz Group returns to the Union College Cabaret on Thursday night. Stop by for fine fare and the best in entertainment. photo by Greg Cohen Records: Lampoon's 'Turkey' fails to amuse by DAVID MOSKOWITZ Perhaps the cover of Gold Turkey says it best: a bunch of people staring mesmerized at an enormous, sparkling gold-plated turkey. This scene is representative of a great deal of the material on Gold Turkey - elaborately produced, but in the end unsuccessful, sick humor. G()ld Turkey is the third album produced by the same minds responsible for National Lampoon magazine. For the reader of the illustrious example of warped thinking, nothing on Gold Turkey will be surprising. On the other hand, the unindoctrinated may be startled bv the bluntness with which the aibum inundates the ivory towers of society. Gold Turkey is comprised of 20 cuts representing the self- proclaimed .. greatest hits\ from the Lampoon's now defunct Radio Hour program. As an advertisement for Gold Turkey expounds, Radio Hour was \the program with too much courage to stay on the air.\ In reality, what doomed Radio Hour was the growing number of alienated and offended listeners and sponsors. Reactions like this help explain the humor basis of the National Lampoon : absolutely nothing and no one is sacred. Targets of the Lampoon include politicians (from the Left and Right), magazines, nostalgia, sentiment, all religions, minorities, majorities.... everything. A peru~al of a National Lampoon collection usually arouses more gasps of amazement at deviant Lampoon visions of reality than outright laughs. Lampoon humor does not consist of 'jokes' in the traditional sense, but rather a representation of reality viewed through semi- crazed eyes. This realistic approach is handled easiest on paper: magazine type-styles can be imitated, ads can be redone, photographs can be staged. Lampoon stage efforts (Lem- mings is an example) are far less successful- relying on individual talents for copying reality. Lampoon's best hours can be seen in works like the ''1964 Highschool Yearbook\ parody, in which an actual yearbook is recreated and satirized at once. Transferred to vinyl the effect is less successful. Gold Turkey's startlingly realistic audio imitations of football coaches, newsreels, folk singers, Patncia Neal. AI Jolson, sci-fi serials, et. al.. sound so much like real life that they are impossible to laugh at. The laughs that do exist are those that can be seen more through a comic eye. Looking at the few highlights of the album there is first \The Immigrants,\ a travelogue-like tale describing the great hillbilly migration to the United States. Satirized are the hillbilly's countries of origin: \I don't like it here in France ... everybody's so snobbv!\ .. Yeah, and I can't read the m~nus;\ the dream of the land of the free: \In America, they got real fine schools- you can go right on up to the first grade.\ \Yeah and they got lots of refrigerators for the kids to play in;\ and the immigration service: \Race?\ \Hillbilly.\ \Country of origin?\ \Italy.\ \Name?\ \Name's Michelangelo Bonaroti.\ \Now what kind of a name is that for an American? From now on vou're M.C. Boone.\ · Still, this cut ends on an even less funny beat, with a description relating hillbillies to cancer, incest, black lung disease and to someone called Arthur Hillbilly Jean King. Another funny spot is a bit called \Alternative Child,\ a radio show discussing the amazing abilities of two year old children raised in a survival camp (\Dehbie here won a bronze medal at Munich ... last week 1-te swam 200 miles upstream in the Columbia River. .. \)-~ still. the storv ends again on a sick note with the manslaughter of one of the children. Most of the rest of the albt.m misses the mark even more completely. The AI Jolson \A Laugh from the Pa!>t\ recording (it's supposed to be the real thing) seems endless in its description of Jolson's preference for \performing\ over the death of a friend. \Terminal Football\ is awful- a football coach dolefully tells his players of the diseases they have. The supposed funniness of coffee commercial favorite Patricia Neal's stroke is explored with perverse glee in ''My Husband.\ The list goes on: a new hockey penalty for high sticking - the guillotine (and for those who weren't repulsed the first time - slow motion!). National Lampoon humor simply does not translate to the recording media. The negativism and realism of their satire suppresses much potential laughter- and probably obscures whatever constructive message is being made (if any). Lenny Bruce once said, \It's not me who's sick, it's society. I'm just society's doctor.\ If Gold Turkey is intended to be serving the same function, the patient may as well be dead. Concerts: Evening of Zappa Ill~ rece1ves raves by ARNiE HILLER The \renowned Mothers\ arrived in the tri-state area prematurely to fit in with the upcoming festivities that will surround Parents Weekend at Union. Their arrival, although virtually unptlblicized, received the rave reviews normally reserved for the more \popular\ artists who perform in town. Frank Zappa and his Mothers of Invention have, however, long been one of the few acts capable of consistently generating interest in rock music. It was truly a grand premiere for the eight musicians who nuv. comprise tht; !\.1 others, when the Palace Theatre presented them to an instant sell-out crowd. The enthusiasm which surrounds Zappa. wherever and whenever he performs, is certainly not difficult to decipher. Those followers of rock music recognize that Frank Zappa has passed through many stages in his music. His earliest works depict the epitome of underground rock musicianship in their biting social commentary. Freak Out, an appropriate title for such an album, irked many people, who found it simply to be an album of words, with only a partial musical base. Unfortunately, the true merit of Zappa. a highly talented musician. was subjected to a lesser role than the message he sought to portray. This malady, in retrospect, was the real difference between the fly-by-night \acts\ which surface from time to time and the real genius which is Frank Zappa. The cynicism concerning American cu.lture soon became partially obscured' by the innovative mixture of rock and jazz progressions which Zappa's music had evolved into. Today's Mothers, who, with the exception of everybody's favorite, Willy the Pimp, performed exclusively new material, were bolstered by the guest appearance of Captain Beefheart; the Captain was featured on soprano sax and back-up vocals on-most numbers. Along with the driving bass guitar provided by Tom Fowler, and the exceptional drumming of Ralph Humphries, the band consisted of Bruce 1-·owler on trombone, George Duke on keyboards, and a second gui,tar player, who a~ yet remains nameless. Of course, the Mothers wi]:J always focus on the brilliant guitar work which is Zappa. Frank Zappa is thoroughly trained and versed in all expressions ol music, and provides the leader;.hlp which makes for the tightness and precise orchestra,tion which exemplifies the Mothers Live. This band, unlike many of h1s others. uses an exciting stage show which begins with the group's entrance on stage to the beat of a flash} strobe light sho'W. Centering on the bizarre movements of the musicians, the strobe was totally effective in capturing the audience's imagination, which was augmented by the superb sound svstem which the band uses. f-:rank Zappa is truly a major figure in the American rock picture. in his innovative and exciting approach to music. He is a mv-;terious figure both on and off ~!age. who is able to maintain ab~olute control of his music 111 HACKMANT ALPACINO l SCji!~IECJ~Dit{ \Srarecrow\ is an original off-beat film drama starring Gene Hackman and AI Parino. The Warner Bros. releasF tell~ the fre,h. funnv and verv mo•ing ~tory of two drifte;s trying to make i I towards a better, happier life - away from skid rows, away from jail, away from losing. Gene Hackman, who won the Aca· dem y A ward last year as best actor for his performance in \The French Con· nection.\ stars in \Scarecrow\ as :'<lax. a tough brawler just released from a California jail. AI Pacino, who skvrocketed to fame in \The God- faiher.\ stars as Uon. a clowning kid jsu t home from five years of life at sea. \Scarurow\ was produced by Robert \1. Sherman. with Jerrv S('hatzherg directing. Sehatzbert pre· 'iouslv directed \Panic in ~eedle Park.'' a widelv-acclaimed film that l!a\'f' AI Pacino hi~ first srretn role. FRIDAY, MAY 9, 10:00 SAT., MAY 10, 7, 9, II SUN., MAY 11, 7, 9, ll 75¢ Wi·llen brGARR~ MIC'-1AE~ W/1.~! 1 ' : .• • • ·, ~ ..... • '.' ... ~·:=··d - ~~f]ll aai•-u• ' Dl't\ !t> ,' : , :~ ~locY S(H,\l' tlf R\; PANAVI$!{)N•\\ '~, 11~.:._':11. 1 ~ 1 ~-;,;;.:'!'\ .. c!,.~•. Celebrahng War!'ltlr Bros ~Oih Ann,~e'SJ', C\1 :, ,',: · , _ .. - ... · ,. · ~; ,- , .______ -------- ----~- ., ~ .. ,, ; il • n s: A R F c tl fi T 0 \ f s

he IS 's s. d d n . ' · ·GONQ@RDJENS.l$,. ·Wednesday,' May 7, 1975 Films: T omtny: For the deaf, dumb, and blind by JACK PITNEY Ken Russell has a simple f0trtmla for making a movie: toss GUt logic, throw in a lot of symbols and hope that the jerks out there will think they're seeing something profound. In Tommy, he neglects the original story line and tries to make Roger Daltrey into a hyped-up Christ figure. The effort is definitely superstar- WRUC-FM • arrives On fhe afternoon of Monday, April 28, WR U C genera:!; manager Rich Forselius mailed to the Federal Communications Commission the forms stating that the station had passed the fioal equipment tests on Thursday, April 24. In the enclosed letter he requested that we begin program test authority, for all intent~. and purposes regular programming, on Friday, May 9. Although WRUC has thus far only received a statement from the F.CC. stating that the forms have arrived, it does look as if WRUC will go FM on Friday at 7:00 p.m. The openiog show will consist of short statements by each member qf the executive- board: general manager Rich Fo.rselius, · Lloyd Saberski, (stati,on manager), Ruth Rappaport (program director), Mike Roberts, (publicity · director), and Steve Reinhardt (technical director), After these short ( 1-2 minutes~ statements several shows aFe schedaled. These shows, hosted by WR UC's best disc jockeys, will give an overview of the music programming to. be expected for the rest of the term. Then~ have been many requests by members of the College community as. to what song they wish to have played first. U has been decided, however, to play the song that was first played on October 14~ l920.vihen WRUC's (and W2UC's) progenitor began. regularly-scheduled program- ming. RUC rained out We wish to t.a·ke this opportunity to congratulate WRUC on their excellent foresight in' purchasing bumper stickers for promoting their move to FM. The idea of using water , soluble ink was a stroke of innovative genius on the part of the Executive Board of the station. Now, once WRUC goes FM and the rains come to Schenectady, the one-time promoti9nal stickers may be used for 'in_any other purposes. Fl:>r ~ ·· instance: I) As a blank white space on your bumper. 2) As an auxiliary grocery list for absent- minded housewives. 3) As a mailing label in case your car is lost. 4) Fqr advertising WR UC next year when they are off the air. For those lucky enough not to own a car they may preserve their stickers for posterity, provided they do not wear them out in the rain. _ MRA and DLM Parents Weekend Schedule PARENTS' WEEKEND FRIDAY MAY 9,1975 4:00 p;m. Women~s Lacrosse vs. Williams College Nott Field. 6:30 p.m. Hillel Senice and Dinner at Hale House Guest Speaker, President Bonner,- reservations. 7:30-9;30 p.m. Parents pick up programs and tic~ets in Hale House, 8:00£P•m· Mountcbanli:'s production of Our Town, by Thornton Wilder, 'Nott Memorial. 9:80 & 11:00 .pm Student Cabaret.- Carnegie Student Center. lG:OO p.m. Film Committee- Scarecrow- Social Science 016. SATURDAY MAY-10, 1975 11:30-11:00 a.m. Pick up tickets and programs in Hale House - Continental Breakfast available at cost. j 9:00-11:00 a.m. Open House in aU departments. Faculty and Administration available to meet parents. 10:00 a.m. Women's Caucus -sponsoring a speaker, Peggy Napear1 author of Brainchild: A Mother's Diary. Peggy is the wife of Bert, class of '50. Everyone welcome - Strauss Lounge. \' 11:00 a.m. Prize Day Ceremony in Library Plaza (Memorial Chapel in case of rain) - Honorary Doctorate to Count Basie, awards and honors to students. 12:30·1:30 p.m. Picnic lunch for parents, students, faculty and staff on Library jNott field (Gym in case of rain). Volleyball and Sadminton available. Extra concert tickets·available at the picnic. 1:30 p.m. Women's Softball - N ott Field 2:00 p.m. Vnrsity Lacrosse - Daley Field 1:00 p;m. Mou~tebanks' production of Our Town- Nott Memorial. 3:00 p.m. Student Art Show and String Quartet - refreshments - Library. 4:00 p.m. Women's Glee Club and Chamber Singers - 202 Art Building-- reception following performance. · 8:30 p.m. Count Batie and his Orchestra - Dance and_ Concert in Fieldhouse - must present tickets. SUNDAY MAY 11, 1975 lG:00-10:30 a.m. Celebration of Spring, an organ recital by Hugh Allen Wilson - Memorial Chapel \Toccata & Fugue in D Minor\ Bach; \Sheep May Safely Graze\ Bach; \Selections from Seven Casual Brevities\ Leach; \Finale from Symphony #l'\ Verde. 10:30 a.m. Spring Carnival .._ Lawn in back 'of Library. Booths galore, fun and games, many for charity- Crafts, Food, Books, Bike- a·thon, Israel Booth ... l8 different booths. Tennis, Volleyball, and Badminton available. . crossed. Daltrey doesn't look Transcendent enough to be Tommy. Nobody does. The a·lbum allowed the listener to fonn his own image of Tommy, to let his imagination wander. In the movie, we;re tied to Russelrs peculiar visions; his camera can~t compete with the mind's eye. Some sequences fail more spectacularly than others. ln the \Acid Queen\ number, Tina Turner throws Daltrey into a machine which alternately turns him into the image of his father and a snakewinfested skeleton, Meanwhile, turner gyrates and belts out her lyrics as if she's being electrocuted. In this gentle, sublime manner, Russell show~ the contrast of the Holy Innocent and the Nabile Savage. the most nauseating sequence of all comes when Ann-Ma(garet watches Daltrey's pinball victory on TV. As commercials flash on, the set spews out their products: .soapsuds, beans, and chocolate fudge. Ann-Margaret wallows in this mess, caressing a giant sausage (subtle phallic imagery). All in aU, it looks like Surprise Day at Saga. To be sure, the cast does include some 'fine singers: Ann- Margaret as The Mother and Eric Clapton as The Preacher. But many are mediocre (Alan Bates and Elton Jqhn) and one is d.ownright godawful (Jack Nicholson. in a wa'lk-on as The Doctor). The ·soundtrack is OK. - as long as it's played in theaters equipped with quadraphonic speakers. In a few months, though, Tommy will be showing in second-run houses and drive-ins; that will be bad news. But who cares? The whole thing plays better if you're deaf, dumb, ;:tnd blind. Jobs are available with Electrolux - Summer jobs, full time, part time, year round. Enjoy high earnings, bonuses and prizes while learning the business. Scholarships of $500, $700, and $1000 are· also available. For more information call Mr. Piatek at 372-3226 or write him at Electrolux, 726 State St.,· Schenectady, NY 12309 * * * * Pre-Law Announcement To All Seniors The Union College Pre-Law Society is presently engaged in the formulation of a law school admission handbook. This handbook which will tentatively be available to all interested students in the fall, will provide those interested parties with compiled data concerning the success of Union students with reg~rd to .admission to different law schools. The project will depend upon the willingness of this year's graduating ~lass. who have applied to law school, to submit a list of these schools along with any and all responses which they have received from them. The information will be kept perfectly confid~ntial; this, it is hoped, will becon.e a practice for all future graduating seniors. The information requested· can be filled out on index cards, which Mrs. Kozel, in the Political Science Department, will provide. * * * \' Applications are available in Student Activities for the Editor- in-Chief/ or Co-Editors of the 1976 Union Book. All are invited to apply .... The deadline for submitting applications is May Page7 rts Charles McPhearson (right) blowin' Jazz at the Ramodn photo by R. Guardian Ramada Jazz by BARBARA FRASER Last Sunday night the Ramada Inn on Nott Street presented two tenor sax playrs, AI Cohn and Leo Russo in a free concert; Cohn formerly played with Zoot Sims a,nd Woody Herman. Accompanying them on piano was Sal Maide; Mike Wicks was on bass and Tim Coakley played drums. The saxes had quite different styles, but in general they were complimentary. Cohn sounded a bit loUder and more sporadic. compared to the smoother, more melodic playing of Leo Russo. The back-up solos were interesting also, and few times were they out of character with the mood the saxes were trying to create. The entire ensemble gave an excellent though not exactly thrilling performance. On a bi-weekly schedule, the Ramada Inn plans to present Big Bands, such as the Glen Miller Orchestra.. in free concerts on ~ Sundays at 8 p.m. Please donate blood in Raymond F. Neuhause's name. He had open heart surgery in Boston last Monday, April 28. Mr. Neuhause is a member of the College maintenance staff. news briefs 15th. * *· * * Library Book Sale Reading Court Sunday, May lith 10:00-2:30 * * * * Policy Meeting - Monday May lith. Women's Caucus is holding an open meeting for deciding policy for the upcoming year. Plans for orientation will b~ discussed, and elections will be held. * * * * - Fall Term - Pre-Registration Notice Pre-registration materials for fall term will be available in the Office of the Registrar, Room 2, Ad ministration Building, beginning Monday, May 19. Students are urged to promptly secure their copy of these materials. Students who do not plan to return to Union for the fall term, except graduating se!liors. should report to the Dean of Students and give notice of their plans. Students should confer with Faculty Advisers during the five days May 19-23. Some departments may announce special arrangements for advising. Please be alert for such announcements. Course requests. are due at the Office of the Registrar not later than May 26th. A ten dollar ($10.00) late fee will be assessed thereafter. * * * * Students are reminded that all the Dean of Students before the end of the term. Non- preregistration or nonpayment of fall term bills does not constitute notice of withdrawal. Students who are unsure of their plans for the fall should consult with the Dean of Students. Withdrawal after July l or failure to preregister by this date results in deposit forfeiture. Withdrawal after the due date of fall term bills results in significant forfeitures of tuition and room rent. Publish? C oniiitued from Page 5 sustained. One might also ask the department chairman either alone or in consultation with other scholars to evaluate those claims. Once those claims have been made, considered and reconsidered, they then set the conditions for objectives for the faculty member with respect to his or her research projects. Given all of that (and I obviously would insist that it be done in writing), the faculty member has then set some targets and goals for himself. Evaluation. it seems to me, may then proceed hot only on those goals but also on how well the faculty member does in living up to those goals.\ Enteman also feels that .. a periodic review of the faculty member's research by scholars who are not at Union and who do not know the faculty member personally\ should take place. -

IS ,]y IS s s . s j II , CONCORDIENSIS, Wednesday, May 7, 1975 Films: Tom my: For the deaf, dumb, and blind by JACK PITNEY Ken Russell has a simple formula for making a movie: toss out logic. throw in a lot of ~ymbo!s and hope that the jerks out there will think they're seeing something profound. In Tommy, he neglects the original story line and tries to make Roger Daltrey into a hyped-up Christ figure. The effort Is definitely superstar- WRUC-FM • arrtves On the afternoon of Monday. Aprii2R. WR UC general manager Rich Forselius mailed to the Fed era! Com m uaica tioas Commission the forms stating that the station had passed the final equipment tests on Thursday. April 24. In the enclmed letter he requested that we hegin program test authority. for all intents and purposes regular programming, on Friday. May 9. AhhoHgh WRUC has thus far only received a statement from the F.C.C. stating that the forms have arrived. it does look as if WR UC will go FM on Friday at 7:00 p.m. The opening show will consist of short statements by each member of the executive· board: general manager Rich Forselius. Lloyd Saberski, (station manager), Ruth Rappaport (program director). Mike Roberts. (publicity director). and Steve Reinhardt (technical director). After these short ( 1-2 minutes) statements several shows are scheduled. These shows. hosted by WRllCs hest disc jockey._, will give an overview of the music programming to be expected for the rest of the term. There have been many requests by members of the College community as to what song they wish to have played first. It has been decided. however, to play the song that was first played on October 14, 1920 when WRUCs (and W2UC's) progenitor began regularly-scheduled program- ming. RUC rained out We wish to take thts opportunity to congratulate WR U C on their excellent foresight in· purchasing bumper stickers for promoting their move to FM. The idea of using water soluble ink was a stroke of innovative genius on the part of the Executive Board of the station. Now. once WRUC goes FM and the rains come to Schenectady, the one-time promotional stickers may be used for many other purposes. For instance: I) As a blank white space on your bumper. 2) As an auxiliary grocery list for absent- minded housewives. 3) As a mailing label in case your car is lost. 4) For advertising WRUC next year when they are off the air. For those lucky enough not to own a car they may preserve their stickers for posterity, provided they do not wear them out in the rain. MRA and DLM crmsed. Daltre} doesn't look Transcendent enough to be Tommy. '\;obody does. The alhum allowed the I istener to form his own image of TGmmy, to let his imagination wander. In the movie. we're tied to Russell's peculiar visions; his camera can't compete with the mind's eye. Some sequences fail more spectacularly than others. In the \Acid Queen\ number, Tina Turner throws Daltrey into a machine which alternately turm him into the image of hi~ fathe1 and a snake-infested skeleton Meanwhile. TunH:I' gyrates an<. belts out her lyrics as if she'. being eh:ctrocuted. ln this gcatle ~ublimc manrH:r. Ru~~dl show the contw~t uf tlH; Hul) lnnocen and the Nubile Savage. The most nauseating sequence of all comes when Ann-Margaret watches Daltrey's pin ball victory on TV. As commercials flash on, the set spews out their products: soapsuds. beans, .and chocolate fudge. Ann-Margaret wallows in this mess. caressing a giant sausage (subtle phallic irnagcry). All in alL it looks like Surprise Day at Saga. To be sure. the ca~t does include some fine singers: Ann- Margaret as The Mother and Eric Clapton as The Preacher. But many are mediocre ( Al.an Bates and Elton John) and one is downright god.awful (Jack ~icholson. in a walk-on as The Doctor). The soundtrack is OK as long as it's played in theaters equipped with quadraphonic speakers. In a few months. though. Tommy will be showing in second-run houses and drive-ins; that will be bad news. But who cares? The whole thing plays better if you're deaf, dumb. and blind. Page 7 rts Char:._, 1\-h Phearson (right) blowin' Jazz at the Ramodn photo by R. Guardian Ramada Jazz b:y BARBARA FRASER Last Sunday night the Ramada Inn on Nott Street presented two tenor sax playrs, AI Cohn and Leo Russo in a free concert; Cohn formerly played with Zoot Sims a ncl W o o d y H e r m a n . Acwmpanying them on piano Wil' Sal Maide; Mike Wicks was on hass and Tim Coakley played drums. The saxes had quite dilferent styles. but in general thev were complimentary. Cohn sn•mded a hit louder and more sr·•radic, compared to the smt)other. more melodic playing ol I .eo Russo. The back-up solos were interesting also, and few times were they out of character wi!h the mood the saxes were trying to create ensemble gave an The entire excellent thrilling though not exactly performance. On a bi-weekly schedule. the Ramada Inn plans to present Big Bands. such as the Glen Miller Orchestra. in free concerts on Sundays at X p.m. Please donate blood in Raymond f'. Neubause's name. He had open heart surgery in Boston last Monday. April 28. Mr. Neuhause is a member of the College maintenance staff. '• ' < • •,', ,: ',' ·~ ~· .~ _• ·,., 'I ,' ·~ • ' news briefs Parents Weekend Schedule PARENTS' WEEKEND FRIDAY MAY 9, 1975 4:0D p.m. Women's Lacrosse vs. Williams College Nott Field. 6:3D p.m. Hillel Service and Dinner at Hale House Guest Speaker, President Bonner, - reservations. 7:30-9.:30 p.m. Parents pick up programs and tickets in Hale House. 8:00jp.m. Mounkbank's production of Our Town, by Thornton Wilde:. N ott Memorial. 9:00 & 11:00 pm Student Cabaret - Carnegie Student Center. 10:00 p.m. Film Committee- Scarecrow- Social Science 016. SATURDAY MAY 10,1975 8:30-11:00 a.m. Pick up tickets and programs in Hale House Continental Breakfast available at cost. 9:00-11:00 a.m. Open House in all departments. Faculty and Administration available to meet parents. 10:00 a.m. Women's Caucus sponsoring a speaker, Peggy Napear, author of Brainchild: A Mother's Diary. Peggy is the wife of Bert, class of '50. Everyone welcome- Strauss Lounge. ' 11:00 a.m. Prize Day Ceremony in Library Plaza (Memorial Chapel in case of rain) - Honorary Doctorate to Count Basie, awards and honors to students. 12:30-1:30 p.m. Picnic lunch for parents, students, faculty and staff on Library jN ott field (Gym in case of rain). Volleyball and Badminton available. Extra concert tickets available at the picnic. 1:30 p.m. Women's Softball- Nott Field 2:00p.m. Vl!!sity Lacrosse - Daley Field 2:00p.m. Mou-ttebanks' production of Our Town - N ott Memorial. 3:00 p.m. Student Art Show and String Quartet - refreshments - Library. 4:00 p.m. Women's Glee Club and Chamber Singers - 202 Art Building -- reception following performance. 8:30 p.m. Count 'Ba~!e and his Orchestra - Dance and Concert in Fieldhouse - must present tickets. SUNDAY MAY 11, 1975 10:410-10:30 a.m. Celebration of Spring, an organ recital by Hugh Allen Wilson - Memorial Chapel \Toccata & Fugue in D Min or\. Bach; ''Sheep May Safely Graze\ Bach; \Selections from Seven Casual Brevities\ Leach; \Finale from Symphony #I\ Verde. 10:30 a.m. Spring Carnival - Lawn in back of Library. Booths galore, fun and games, many for charity -Crafts. Food, Books, Bike- a-than. Israel Booth ... 18 .different booths. Tennis. Volleyball, and Badminton available. .I obs are available with Electrolux - Summer jobs, full time. part time, year round. Enjoy high earnings. bonuses and prizes while learning the business. Scholarships of $500, $700, and $1000 are also available. For more information call Mr. Piatek at 372-3226 or vvrite him at Electrolux, 726 State St.. Schenectady, NY 12309 * $ * *' Pre-Law Announcement To All Seniors The Union College Pre-Law Society is presently engaged in the formulation of a law school admission handbook. This handbook which will tentatively be available to all interested students in the fall, will provide those interested parties with compiled data concerning the success of Union students with regard to admission to different law schools. The project will depend upon the willingness of this year's graduating class. who have applied to law school. to submit a list of these schools along with any and all responses which they have received from them. The information will be kept perfectly confid\'ntial; this, it is hoped, will becon.e a practice for all future graduating seniors. The information requested can be filled out on index cards, which Mrs. Kozel, in the Political Science Department, will provide. * * * * Applications are available in Student Activities for the Editor- in-Chief/ or Co-Editors of the 1976 Union Book. All are invited to apply .... The deadline for submitting applications is May 15th. * * * * Library Book Sale Reading Court Sunday, May lith 10:00-2:30 * * * * P<Jlicy Meeting - Monday Mav lith. Women's Caucus is holding an open meeting for deciding policy for the upcoming vear. Plans for orientation will be disc us sed. and elections will be held. * * * * Fall Term- Pre-Registration Notice P're-registration materials for fall term will be available in the Office of the Registrar, Room 2, Ad ministration Building, beginning Monday, May 19. Students are urged to promptly secure their copy of these materials. Students who do not plan to return to Union for the fall term. except graduating seniors. should report to the Dean of Students and give notice of their plans. Students should confer with Faculty Advisers during the five days May 19-23. Some departments may announce special arrangements for advising. Please he alert for such announcements. Course requests are due at the Office of the Registrar not later than May 26th. A ten dollar ($1 0.00) late fee will be assessed thereafter. * * * * Students are reminded that all the Dean of Students before the end of the term. Non- preregistration or nonpayment of fall term bills does not constitute notice of withdrawal. Students who are unsure of their plans for the fall should consult with the Dean of Students. Withdrawal after July I or failure to preregister by this date results in deposit forfeiture. Withdrawal after the due date of fall term bills results in significant forfeitures of tuition and room rent. Publish? Continued from Page 5 sustained. One might also ask the department chairman either alone or in consultation with other scholars to evaluate those claims. Once those claims have been made. considered and reconsidered, they then set the conditions for objectives for the faculty member with respect to his or her research projects. Given all of that (and I obviously would insist that it be done in writing), the faculty member has then set some targets and goals for himself. Evaluation, it seems to me. may then proceed not only on those goals but also on how well the faculty member does in living up to ~hose goals.\ Enteman also feels that \a periodic review of the faculty member's research by scholars who are not at Union and who do not know the faculty member personally\ should take place.

. I Page8 .... .,. • ti·' ·~~.·.~·IF :'I'·.'\,1S 1 '~\'1~ CONCORDIENSIS, W,e{lnesday, M4y 7,1975 New Union College Student Constitution Preamble T h e p ur p o s e o f t hi s Constitution is to reaffirm the role of , the. Student Body in promoting the welfare of the Union College Community. This Constitution recognizes the wle of the Students as a partner in the responsibility and obligation of advancing the stature and position of Union College. Article I The Student Body Section 1. The Student Body shaH consist of all those individuals matriculating at Union College. Article H The Student Forum SectiQn l. All legislative power conferred upon the Student Body shall be vested in .the Student Forum. Section 2. Eligibility for Student membetsltip in, and the manner of election to the Student Forum, shall be established in the By-Laws of the Student Forum. Article UI The Town Meeting Section l. The Student Body may hold a Town Meeting for the purpose of exercising the powers conferred upon it. Section 2. All members of the Student Body may attend Town Meetings with full rights of discussion and vote. All other members of the Union College Community shall have the right to attend Town Meetings and participate in discussions, .. but they may no! vote. Section 3. The President of the Student Body shall conduct the Town Meetings. The Vice- President of the Student Body shall preside in his absence. Section 4. The Town Meeting shall have the power of final arbiter In aU decisions. conferred upon the Student Body. The Student Forum shffll be subject to all decisions of the Town Meeting. Section 5. A Town Meeting may be called by a petition of ten percent of the members of the Student Body or by a simple majority vote of the Student Forum (50% + 1). Petitions must be presented to the Chairman . of the Student Forum. The Student Forum cannot vote to ca11 a Town Meeting unless !!UCh a proposal has been submitted to the Student Forum Agenda Committee and appears on the agenda. Section 6. A quorum for a Town Meeting shall be ten percent of the membership of the Student Body. Decisions shall be rendered by a simple majority vote of those students present '(50% + 1). Section 7. The Student Forum must arrange for an agenda to be· drawn up and publicized well in advance of all Town Meetings. Article IV Committees Section. l. Student Committees shall be created, altered, merged, and dissolved by the Student Forum in accordance with the procedures established in the By- Laws of the Student Forum. ·section - -z::--1\11\-Ttudenf appointments to committees (College, Faculty, and Student) shall be made by a student Committee on Committees in accordance with the procedures established in the By-Laws of the Student Forum. Article V Elected Representatives of the Student Body . Section I. The Student Body shall be represented by a President, Vice-President, . Secretary, s.ix class representatives, and two Student Trustees. These eleven individuals shall sit and vote on the Student Forum. Excluding the Secretary, the other ten individuals shall also sit and vote on the College Senate. _ Sel:tion 2. Pro;visions for the elections of these eleven representatives are included in the By-Laws of the Student Forum. Section 3. The President of the Student Body shall preside at all meetings of the Student Forum and at all Town Meetings. lfis term of office shall be one year. Section 4. The Vice-:President .of the Student Body shall assume all the responsibilities of the President in the case of his Rampant Revision . Continued from Page I the Political Science Dept. state~ that \with the passage of this document the democratic ideal of the All-College Senate will be violated .. .it is unacceptable for members to sit on it without public consent .. .In forwarding this proposal it seems as though the Steering Committee has lost confidence in the people. They are under a moral obligation to subject themselves to popular scrutiny.\ Proponents of this argument have further put forth that by abolishing the Steering Committee'·and replacing it with a new governing body, those members of the current Steering Committee with another year to serve on that board automatically forfeit their tenure and must run for election to the student forum. The second interpretation, one which is supported by growing numbers in the community, is that the annihilation of a previous constitution is equivalent to a drastic amendment and niust be . considered in that light. The argument continues tlut if the Steering Committee ~ by the letter of the old constitution - did not have the explicit power to amend the document without the consent of the students, theA there cannot be any implicit power to destroy the constitution, which is a more drastic measure. Professor Tidmarch, commenting on the process utilized by the Steering Committee, stated that \the procedure is incomprehensible .. .} know of precious few communities which allow the legislative body to -issue a statement of annihilation of a constitution without a referendum ... this is a flagrant violation of the democratic spirit of this institution.\ Professor Joseph Board, also of the Political Science Dept., has voiced the opinion that the steps followed by the Steering Committee reflected the general mood of the College, which, he said, is oriented toward \maximizing efficiency at the expense of following proper procedure in carrying out legislation reforms.\ The process, adherents to the view. argue further, runs counter tothenotion of Constitutional government. In every democratic institution, the constitutionaf order is subject to the pul>lic will. They argue that there has been an inadequate test of what constitutes the public will. The legality of the process by which the new constitution came into being and the legitimacy of certain clauses in the constitution are questions ' that cannot be answered until the matter is brought before an adjudicative body which is willing to hear the case. Several students have indicated that if the matter is not adjudicated before the upcoming student elections; they will initiate petitions requesting the recall of the junior class repre&entatives. absence or removal from office. His .principal responsibility shall be the general administration of student activities and organizations, including· Student Committees. His term of office shall be one year. Section 5. The Secretary shall be responsible for recording the activities of the Student Forum (and its subdivisions), plus any action taken at town Meetings. He shall keep ali current documents up to date. He shall arrange for the distribution and publicity of all agendas and minutes relating to activities of the Student Forum and Town Meetings. His term of office shall be one year. Section 6. The six. class representatives shall represent their respective classes on the Student Forum and in various other aspects of student government as the need arises. During each year, two freshmen shall be elected to represent their class for a term of one year, and two sophomores shall be elected to represent their class for a term of two years. Section 7. The two Student Trustees shall represent the Student Body in all functions of the Board of Trustees of the College. They shall also represent the Student Body in other ways that are mutually agreed to be appropriate. Their terms of office shall each be two years. ' Each year, one sophomore shall be elected by the Student Body to serve a two-year term. A Student Trustee is designated the \Junior class representative to the Board of Trustees\ during his first year and the '\'Senior class representative to the Board of Trustees\ during his second year. Section 8. Any elected representative of the Student Body may be recalled (removed from office) by his constituency at any time during his term of office. A petition signed by fifty percent (50%) of a representative's two-thirds of the total number of constituency must fir:st be votes cast must favor adoptiOi'\ of presented to the President of the the amendment. Student Body.' lf the President is b. A simple majority of the being recalled, then the petition · total membership of the Student shall be presented. to the Vice- Forum must vote in favor of President of the Student Body. A another petition signed by fifty formal referendum of ·the percent (50%) of the Student constituency involved shall be Body. One-half of the entire arranged and conducted by the membership of the Student Student Forum, including Forum, plus one, must cast extensive advance pu}?.licity. A favorable votes. · recall shall be effective (only if at c. Two-thirds of those Students least one-half of the members of present at a Town Meeting must the constituency involved do cast vote in favor of adopting the votes in favor of the recall. proposed amendment. Section 9. All elected Article VIII representatives of the Student Ratification of Body must remain in residence at this Constitution Union Collegeduring their entin:! Section 1. This Constitution of terms of office. the Student Body of Union Article VI Co1lege shall take immediate The By-Laws of ·effect when adopted by a two- this Constitution thirds vote of the Student Section l. The pr.ocedure and Steering Committee. The Student function of the legislative function Steering Committee must ineet of the Student Body of Union quorum. College shall be prescribed in the Article IX By-Laws of this Constitution. Provisions and Procedures ArtiCle VII Not Specifically Enumerated Amendments to this In this Constitution Constitution and Or These By-Laws its By-Laws Section l~ The Student Forum Section 1. Amendments to this shall have the authority to draw Constitution or its By-Laws may up and administer any provisions be proposed in one of the and procedures that are not following ways: specifically enumerated in this a. A petition of ten percent Constitution or in these By-Laws. (10%) of the members of the Section 2. The Student Forum Student Body may be presented shalJ attempt to amend this to the President of the Student Constitution and these By-Laws Body. to incorporate, as necessary, any b. Two-thirds of the Student provisions and procedures · not Forum may vote to propose ~n specifically enumerated herein. amendment. A proposal to ·THE BY·LA WS OF propose a specific amendment THIS CONSTITUTION must first appear on the agenda of the Student Forum meeting. I. The Student Forum Section 2. Proposed I. The principal governing amendments to this Constitution body of the Student Body shall be or its By-Laws shall be adopted in the Student Forum. one of the following ways: 2. Th.e function of the Student a. In a formal referendum, in Forum and its composition shall which fifty percent (50%) of the be as defined in the By-Law.s of Student Body must participate, the Student Forum. - :' Co-editors ofConeordiensis, Jon Scheer (left) and Peter Sobol (right) examine the charred remains of the old student constitution. These remains were left in the editors' mailbox. l GEORGE'S. MUSIC STORE Student Discounts 508 State St. · Schenect~dy 211HIIIIfllllllrllllliiiiiiiii!IIIIIIIIIIIIIHIIIIII115 ! ALGUR ! § LIQUOR § ! CENTER ~ - - - - -. - 5 751 Eastern Ave. = 55 ~a· 5 . 346-5151 = = a a LOWEST PRICES ;; == == ALtOWED 5 = 5 I~ KY. STATE !!· - - = a ifilllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllltlllllllillllllii : p~~to by Robbee 0 c .. < SUNSHINE . SPECIALS PARENTS WEEKEND SATURDAY ONLY, MAY 10th • ALL POStERS .•..••..•.•.•..••......•... Half Price • COOL RAY SUNGLASSES ....... yr. choice 99¢ ea. • SLIDE RULES ....................... 75% off list price . •SPECIAL CERAMIC \UNION\ MUGu ..•. $1.99 ea. • ADULT LONG SLEEVE SWEATSliiRTS.$1.00 off CAMPUS STORE list price \j' ~-

. ' '•! ii Page8 'f' ~-~,~- '1\,,~-,·f . .\''ii(\\151\>'\•)' CONCORDIEN8lS, JV_ednesday, May 7, 1975 New Union College :Student ConstitUtion Preamble The purpose of this Constitution is to reaffirm the role of ,the. Student Body in promoting the welfare of the Union College Community. This Constitution recognizes the role of the Students as a partner in the responsibility and obligation of advancing the stature and position of Union College. Article I The Student Body Section 1. The Student Body shall consist of a'i'l those individuals matriculating at Union College. J\,.rti cle II The Student Forum Section 1. All legislative power conferred upon the Student Body shall be vested in the Student Forum. · Section 2. Eligibility· for Student membership in, and the manner of election to the Student Forum, shall be established in the By-Laws of the Student Forum. Article III The Town Meeting Section l. The Student ·Body may hold a Town Meeting for the purpose of exercising the powers conferred upon it. Section 2. All members of the Student Body may attend Town Meetings with full r:ights of discussion and vote. All other members of the Union College Community shall have the right to attend Town Meetings and participate in discussions, .. but they may no! vote. Section 3. The President of the Student Body shall conduct the Town Meetings. The Vice- President of the Student Body shall preside in his absence. Section 4. The Town Meeting shall have the power of final arbiter in all decisions. conferred upon the Student Body. The Student Forum shlfll be subject to all decisi'ons of the Town Meeting. Section 5. A Town Meeting may be called by a petition of ten percent of the members of the Student Body or by a simple majority vote of the Student Forum (50% + 1). Petitions must be presented to the Chairman .of the Student Forum. The Student Forum cannot vote to call a Town Meeting unless such a proposal has been s~bmitted to the Student Forum Agenda Committee and appears on the agenda. Section 6. A quorum for a Town Meeting shaU be ten percent of the membership of the Student Body. Decisions shall be rendered by a simple majority vote of those students present '(50% + 1). Section 7. The Student Forum must arrange for an agenda to be· drawn up and publicized well in advance of all Town Meetings. Article IV Committees Section l. Student Committees shall be created, altered, merged, and dissolved by the Student Forum in accordance with the procedures established in the By- Laws of the Student Forum. . Seciion - -.2-. All- student appointments to committees (College, Faculty, and Student) shall be made by a student Committee on Committees in accordance with the procedures established in the By-Laws of the Student Forum. Article V Elected Representatives of the Student Body . Section 1. The Student Body shall be represented by a President, Vice-President, . Secretary, s,ix class representatives, and two Student Trustees. These eleven individuals shall sit and vote on the Student Forum. Excluding the Secretary, the other ten individuals shall also sit and vote on the College Senate. Section 2. Pro.visions for the elections of these eleven representatives are included in the By-Laws of the Student Forum. Section 3. The President of the Student Body shall preside at all meetings of the Student Forum and at all Town Meetings. ijis term of office shall be one year. Section 4. The Vice-President .of the Student Body shall assume all the responsibilities of the President in the case of his Rampant Revision Continued from Page 1 the Political Science Dept. stated that \with the passage of this document the democratic ideal of the All-College Senate will be violated .. .it is unacceptable for members to sit on it without public consent...In forwarding this proposal it seems as though the Steering Committee has lost confidence in the people. They are under a moral obligation to subject themselves to popular scrutiny.\ Proponents of this argument have further put forth that by abolishi-ng the Steering Committee\and replacing it with a new governing body, those members of the current Steering Committee with another year to serve on that board automatically forfeit their tenure and must run for election to the student forum. The second interpretation, one which is supported by growing numbers in the community, is that the annihilation of a previous constitution is equivalent to a drastic amendment and niust be considered in that light. The argument continues that if the Steering Committee ~ by the letter of the old constitution - did not have the explicit power to amend the document without the consent of the students, theA there cannot be any implicit power to destroy the constitution, which is a more drastic measure. Professor Tidmarch, commenting on the process utilized by the Steering Committee, stated that \the procedure is incomprehensible ... ! know of precious few communities which allow the legislative body to -issue a statement of annihilation of a constitution without a referendum ... this is a flagrant violation of the democratic spirit of this institution.\ Professor Joseph Board, also of the Political Science Dept., has voiced the opinion that the steps followed by the Steering Committee reflected the general mood of the College, which, he said, is oriented toward \maximizing efficiency at the expense of following proper procedure in carrying out legislation reforms.\ The process, adherents to the view. argue further, runs counter tothenotion of Constitutional government. In every democ~atic institution, the constitutional order is subject to the public will. They argue that there has been an inadequate test of what constitutes the public will. The legality of the process by which the new constitution came into being and the legitimacy of certain clauses in the constitution are questions 'that cannot be answered until the matter is brought before an adjudicative body which is willing to hear the case. Several students have indicated that if the matter is not adjudicated before the upcoming student elections, they will initiate petitions requesting the recall of the junior class representatives. absence or removal from office. His -.principal responsibility shall be the general administration of student activiti,es and organizations, including· Student Committees. His term of office shall be one year. Section 5. The Secretary shall be responsible for recording the activities of the Student Forum (and its subdivisions), plus any action taken at Tewn Meetings. He shall keep all current documents up to date. He shall arrange for the distribution and publicity of all agendas and minutes relating to activities of the Student forum and Town Meetings. His term of office shall be one year. Section 6. Tlle six. class representatives shall represent their respective classes ou the Student Forum and in various other aspects of student government as the need arises. During each year, two freshmen shall be elected to represent their class for a tenn of one year, and two sophomores shall be elected to represent their class for a term of two years. Section 7. The twe Student Trustees shall represent the Student Body in all functions of the Board of Trustees of the College. They shall also represent the Student Body in other ways that are mutually agreed to be · appropriate. Their terms of office shall each be two years. 'Each year, one sophomore shall be elected by the Student Body to serv,~ a two-year term. A Student Trustee is designated the .. Junior class representative to the Board of Trustees\ during his first year and t he \''sen i or cf ass representative to tile Board of Trustees\ during his second year. Section 8. Any elected representative of the Student Body may be recalled (removed from office) by his constituency at any time during bis term of office. A petition signed by fifty percent (50%) of a representative's constituency must fir.st be presented to the President of the StQdent Body.' If the President is being . recalled, then the petition shall be presented to the. Vice- · President of the Student Body. A formal referendum of the constituency involved shalt be arranged and conducted by the Student Forum, inc.luding extensive advance puQlicity. A recall shall be effective 'i:lnly if at least one-half of the members of the constituency involved do cast votes in favor of the recall. Section 9. All elected representatives -of the Student Body must remain in residence at Union College during their entire terms of office. ArtiCle VI The By-Laws of this Constitution Section l. The procedure and function ofthe legislative function of the Student Body of Union College shaH be prescribed in the By-Laws of this Constitution. ArtiCle VII Amendments to this Constitution and its By-Laws. Section 1. Amendments to this Constitution or its By-Laws may be proposed in one of the following ways: ' a. A petition of ten percent ( 10%) of the members of the Student Body may be presented to the President of the Student Body. b. Two-thirds of the Student Forum may vote to propose ~n amendment. A proposal to propose a specific amendment must first appear on the agenda of the Student Forum meeting. Section 2. Proposed amendments to this Constitution or its By-Laws shall be adopted in one of the following ways: a. In a formal referendum, in which fifty percent (50%) of the Student Body must participate, two-thirds of the total number of votes cast must favor adoptjon of the amendment. b. A simple majority of the tota•l membership of the Student Forum must vote in favor of another petition signed by fifty percent (50%) of the Student Body. One-half of the entire membership of the Student Forum, plus one, J;UUst cast favorable votes .. c. Two-thirds of those Students present at a town Meeting must vote in favor of adopting the proposed amendment. Article VIII Ratification of this Constitution Seetion t. This Constitution of the Student Body of Union College shall take immediate effect when adopted by a two- thirds vote of the Stud,ent Steering Committee. The Student Steering Committee must meet quorum. Article IX ProvisiOns and Procedures Not Specifically Enumerated In this Constitution Or These By-Laws Section I. The Student Forum shall have the authority to draw up and administer any provisions and procedures that are not specifically enumerated in this Constitution or in these By-Laws. Section 2. The Student Forum shall attempt to amend this Constitution and these By-Laws to incorporate, as necessary. any provisions and procedures · not specifically enumerated herein. THE BY-LAWS OF THIS CONStiTUTION I. The Student Forum I. The principal governing body of the Student Body snail be the Student Forum. 2. The function of the Student Forum and its composition shall be as defined in the By-LawJ; of the Student Forum. \' : · Co-editors ofConcordiensis, Jon Scheer (left) and Peter Sobol (right) examine the charred remains of the old student constitution. These remains were left in the editors' mailbox. 1 GEORGE'S. MUSIC STORE Student Discounts 508 State St. Schenect~dy !!IIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIJIIIIIIIIIIIINIIIIIII§ i ALGUR . ~ - . = ! LIQUOR ·~ § CENTER § - - - - - - - - a· 751· Eastern Avl:. 5 E : I · 346-5151 § - = 5 LOWES.'T PRICES a = = e All.:OWE~ 5 = = = J!'J KY._STATE 5 - - - - - - - - - - iiiiiiiHIIIIUIIIIIIIIIIiiUIIIIIIIIIIIHIIIillllllffi > p~~~by Robbee c •> -Q co < SUNSHINE- SPECIALS PARENTS WEEKEND SATURDAY ONLY, MAY lOth • ALL POSTERS ........................... Half Price • COOL RAY SUNGLASSES ....... yr. choice 99¢ ea. • SLIDE RULES ....................... 75% off list price •SPECIAL CERAMIC ''UNION'' MUG'' .... $1.99 ea. • ADULT LONG SLEEVE SWEATSHIRTS.$1.00 off CAMPUS STORE. list price

CONCORDJENSIS, Wednesday, May 7, 1975 Page9 mber of of of the Student of by fifty entire cast must the of Union two- meet ted not this this -Laws •. any not be shall of .. B ·T·; ... I·.,..,H. ·.E .. R:·._ . . ' .::.· . .1? .: . . : : ~ - • , .. -- • 4- - ' • : .: ' • Games, toys, and boriks are urgently needed for the new pediatric section of St. Clare's Hospital. Anyone willing to donate such items please contact Dave at 370,659 l. If any of these things are at home, why not have someone bring them up on Parent's Weekend.· Donations will be greatly appreciated. * * * * For Sale: New Brandcroft Player Special tennis racket, gut string, 4Y2 medium. 370-6600. * * * ·* Work done by Da!liel C<?oper, Sarah Mink, and T-odd Cavalier will be shown in the Union Gallery, Schaffer Library, from May 13 to May 19. Gallery hours ate 2•5 p.m. daily. The show consists of drawings, sculpture; silk-screen, and mote. · * * * * For Sale: l'htee old, small trunks for sale. H.R. McBride, 2001 Dean St., Schenectady. 346-10'16. * * * * The Biology Dept. will hold its annual meeting fpr majors on Tuesday, May 13, at 7:30 p.m. in BU 204. fhe agenda will include curriculum reform, the picnie, and elections. for . student repr~sentatives. Biology majors and their parents are invited for coffee and doughnuts this Saturday morning from 9-ll a.m. on the third floor of the science center. * * * * Albany residents interested in doing urban survey work for the Albany .. Urban Renewal Program this summer should' contact P~9f: . .M\i!-~on at 370,6262. ' • • • .1: ~ ~ • : ,J' * * * *- Bruce Sostek and Geoff Taylor, stHdent representatives to the :Board. of Trustees, will be in Strauss Lounge at 8 p.m. this Thursday to inform students about the last Trustee meeting and answer any questions. . * * * * Professor Hugh Silverman of SUNY at Stony Brook will present a paper entitled .. Sartre's World on the Self' to the :-· Philosaphy Seminar this Friday, May 9, at 3 p.m. in HU 213. Refreshments and informal discussion will follow the meeting~ AU are :welcome. * * * * The house or dorm with the highest percentage of donors at the Bloodmobile Thursday and Friday will win a free keg of beer. Appointments can be made at Student Activities. * , * * * Steve Bussolari, a senior in Mechanical Engineering, won the ASME Region III Student Speaking Contest for his research in heart valves. This makes him eligible to compete in the National ASME Contest in Houston, Texas, next fall. * * *' * Dwight Perkins, of the Harvard Economics Dept., will be speaking on Observations on China's Economy at 8:30 p.m. on Thutsday, May 8, in SS o· 16. * * * \' . Come to jazz ora the lawn, a day .of expression and celebration through sunshine, · ' Mr. John Kleiilkauff, Director of Security, warns students that the incidence of bike thefts on campus may increase unless students themselves take precaution;,try . music, fqod, and good vibes. On Sunda·y, May 25th, from noon until the full - moon, Girting Center will house the festival. A charge of only $1.25 will be asked upon entrance, unless tickets are picked up at the Student Activities Office the week before, at which time the price will be $1.00. Any questions, contact Santi at 346-9658. ' ' >: Florentine Restaurant 108 Ja.y Street Enjoy our Italian-American Cuisine at Reasonable Prices \ Specialty of the House - Veal Union College Students .Alwa.vs Welcome 'Sen:ing. Union -For Three Generations' · measures. These measures include propetly securing a bike with a sturdy lock and chain, obtaining,. the registration number of the bike . (usually located underneath the chasis), and the prompt 'reporting to Secur.ity of any . suspicions behavior. Students seeking tQ protect their bikes. are urged to direct any qQ.Jestions to the Security Office. Newest' ·Lunch 715 ALBANY ST ~ The oldest lunch ID the area. MCII'e than 58 years we•serve 'First · · . Prize hot dozs with tbe o~&ililll . f11111ous saute. ·AlSO different special dinners everyday. We are open 7 days a w- - weekend till 4. Viiit Newest Lunch. G®CI Dlaee t9 Eat. \ ~ \ 166 Jay St. ~ For Honest Service ' I ~nd Go~d Je~ ... lry Life Storys as Fiction by SUS IE BRICKMAN aspect of autobiography, getting together periodically to discuss ·facets of research and interests. Professor Gado's basic thesis is order to see the extent to which fiction, particularly the novel, has influenced the form of autobiography and the degree to which au to biography has influenced the form of fiction. Professor Frank Gado of the English Department has received, along with eleven other people from across the country, a grant from the National Endowment for the Humanities Foundation. Professor Gado will live and work at Dartmouth for the academic year. 1975-1976~ The twelve select members will be working on some that autobio;graphy is fundamentally a fiction form; once one tries to tell the story of his life, the way in which tlie factual raw materials are ordered .-------------; is ultimately determined by some All applications for\\\\'\\·\'\'\\ aesthetic concept. He plans to which have been absorbed by ne\\ apply structural and formalist committees will be valid for criticism to new committee. Applications for those. committees which 'have remained he same, that is, called by the name as last year, are closed .. Applications for any of the new •'\''\'\'ittees will be available in the Student Activities Office on Thursday, May 8th, and are due later than Friday M 16. · The depa .. tment of the Arts is currently conducting third- year evaluation of Professor Robert K. Moorhead. Members of the College ' Community who wish to contribute to these evaluations are invited to forward their . remarks in writing to -Professor Hugh Allen Wilson, Chairman, Dept. of the Arts. FOR LIQUOR ANI) WINE Try Jc:Jce Lipstein's Frank Gado- photo by Dan McManamon 464 State Street FR4-1811 .. . Lake ountry S . Comell ummer Why not plan to spend this summer with us ... 1 a 40-mile clear water lake 2 3-week, 6-week, 8-week sessions hills, for2ts, p-arks -4 ' d possibility of completing two semesters stu y in areas as diverse as organic chemistry and modern arabic or hebrew 5 summer culture and activities 6 extensive offerings in mathematics and the natural sciences, humanities, classical and modern languages, studio art, and the social sciences 7 ' gorges, waterfalls 6 experiential learning and extended campus opportunities available through special programs are so many unnn reasons. For free announcement write: Tuition: $85. per credit hour · Comell University Summer Session 103 Day +tall, Ithaca, N.Y. 14853phone[607]256-4987

of of of the Student favor of by fifty Student entire Student ust cast Students ing must the of Union a two- Student Student st ineet Forum draw not this Forum d this •. any not be tudent shall of ,. CONCORDIENSIS, Wednesday, May 7, 1975 Page9 B · .. ·;·•,..,u· ·.E •. . · u.~~. ::·.···a '!,' • ' ..••.. -· .:.· ' . \·;.·. Games, toys, and .bo~ks are urgently needed for the new pediatric section of St Clare's Hospital. Anyone willing to donate such items please contact Dave at 370-6591. If any of these things are at home, why not have someone bring them ttp on Parent's Weekend.· Donations will be greatly appreciated. * * * * For Sllle: New B.randcroft Player Special tennis ,racket, gut string, 4~ medium. 370-6600. * * * ·* Work done by Daniel Cootm, Sarah Mink, and \Fodd Cavalier will be shown in' the Union Gallery, Schaffer Library, from May I3 to May 19. Gallery hours are 2-5 p.m. daily. The show consists of drawings, sculpttJ.re, silk-screen, and more. · '* * * * For S•le: Three old, small trunks for sale. H.R. McBride, 2001 Dean St.,. Schenectady. 346-10'16. * * * * The Biology Dept. will hold its annual meeting fpt majors on Tuesday, May 13, al 7:30 p.tn. in BU 204. The agenda will include curriculum reform, the picnic, and elections. for student representatives. Biology majors and their parents are invited for coffee and doughnuts this Saturday morning from 9-ll a.m. on the third floor of the science center. * * * * Albany residents interested in doing urban survey work for the Albany .. Urban Renewal P.rogram this summer should contact P~gf,,)N{fl~Ofl at 370~6262. ****'- ' ' • -.: ~ ~ ) • ' . .1 Bruce Sostek and Geoff Taylor; student representatives to the Board of Trustees, will be in Strauss Lounge at 8 p.m. this Thursday to inform students about the last Trustee meeting and answer any questions. * * * * Professor Hugh Silverman of SUNY at Stony Brook will present a paper entitled ••sartre's World on the Self' to the ·- Philosophy Seminar .this Friday, May 9, at 3 p.m. in HU 213. Refreshments and informal discussion will follow the . rneeting. All are .welcome. * * * * The house or dorm with the highest percentage of donors at the Bloodmobile Thursday and Friday wiii win a free keg of beer. Appointments can be made at Student Activities. * ' * * * Steve Bussolari, a senior in Mechanical Engineering, won the ASME Region HI Student Speaking Contest for his research in heart valves. This makes him eligible to· compete in the National ASME Contest in Houston, Texas, next fall. * * * * Dwight Perkins, of the Harvard Economics Dept., will be speaking on Observations on China's Economy at 8:30 p.m. on Thursday, May 8, in SS o· Hi. * * * * - Come to jazz on the lawn, a day .of expression and celebration through sunshine, music, fq!»d, and good vibes. On Sunda-y, May 25th, from noon until the full · moon, Girling Center will house the · festival. A charge of only $1.25 wiU be asked upon entrance, unless tickets are picked up at the Student Activities Office · the week before; at which time the price will be Sl.OO. Any questions, contact Santi at . · 346-9658. 'Mr. John Kleinkauff, 108 Jay Street En}oyour ltatian-American Cuisine at Reasonable Prices ~ Specialty of the House - Veal Union College Students .1lwa.vs Welcome •se~ing­ Union ·For three Generations' i .166 Jay St. For Honest Service I and Go~d Je~ .. lry D.irector of Secutity, warns students that the .incidence of · , bike thefts on campus may increase unless students . the~t~selves take precautionary measures. These measures include properly securing a bike with a sturdy lock and . c h a j,n, o b t a i n i n g_ t h e registration number of the bike (usually located underneath the chasis), and the prompt reporting to Secur.ity of any suspicious behavior. Students · seeking to protect their bikes are urged to direct any questions to the Security Office. Newest\ ·Lunch 715 ALBANY ST. The c.ldeSt lunch in the area. More tlwl 50 !till'S we•serve 'First · · . Prize bot dQIS with tbe ori&inal · funoos saute. ·AlsO different · apeeill dinners everyday. We are open 1 days a wiek. - weekend . tiD .C. ViSit Newest Lunch. GQ(Jd Dlace ~0 Eat. p Life Storys as Fiction by SUSIE BRICKMAN aspect of autobiography, getting together periodically to discuss ·facets Hf research and interests. order to see the extent to which fiction, particularly the novel, has influenced the form of autobiography and the degree to which autobiography has influenced the form of fiction. Professor Frank Gado of the English Department has received, aloog with eleven other people from across the country, a grant from the National Endowment for the Humanities Foundation. Ptofessor Gado will live and work at Dartmouth for the academic year. lg75-1976. The twelve select members will be working on some Professor Gado's basic thesis is t h at a u t o b i o gr ap h y is fundamentally a fiction form; once one tries to tell the story af his life, the way in which tlie factual raw materials are ordered .------------\\\1 is ultimately determined by S()me All applications for committee! . aesthetic concept. He plans to · which have been absorbed by neVI apply structural and formalist · committees will be valid for that criticism to new committee. .. - photo by Dan McManamon Applications for those lcr•mrnif.tees which have remained same, that is, called by the . name as last year, are losed. Applications for any of the new •·r-.eomrn will be available in Student Activities Office on Thursday, May 8th, and are due no _later than Friday May 16. The department of the Arts is currently conducting third- year evaluation of Professor Robert K. Moorhead. Members of the College ' Community who wish to contribute to these evaluations are invited to forward their remarks in writing to ·Professor Hugh Allen Wilson, Chairman, Dept. of the Arts. FOR LIQUOR AND WINE Try Jake Lipstein's 464 State Street FR4.-1888 Lake. ountry 5 . Comell ummer Why not plan to spend this summer with us ... 1 a 40·rnile clear water lake 2 3-week, 6-week, 8-week sessions hills, for2ts, parks '4 possibility of completing two semesters' study in areas as diverse as organic chemistry and modern arabic or hebrew 5 summer culture and activities 6 extensive offerings in mathematics and the natural sciences, humanities, classical and modern languages, studio art, and the social sciences 7 . gorges, waterfalls 8 experiential learning and extended campus opportunities available through speci·al programs .. .there are so many good reasons. For free annoui'ICement write: Tuition: $85. per credit hour · Comell UniversitySummer&!sslon 103 Daytiall, IthaCa, N.Y. 14853phooe[607)256-4987

. , ' ,, .. I i Stomaeh Aehe duping us. Being only a freshman, Saga has had the honor of forceably inflicting itself upon me for a year. Forget it Saga blew it's chance. I think for the price of 220 dollars per term 1 can feed myself 10 times better. How about lifting the curtain of apathy induced silence. There are reasonable alternatives to the problem .. At .least one other person must have serious reservations about the worth and quality of Saga food. Speak up, let your feelings be known and make your opinion count. By the way the contract with Saga food has just been renewed by the administration. I bet Tom Bonner isn't on the 20 meal plan. Keep up the good work Saga. Bob Batchelder ambiguous Union College or beyond - that a student has submitted. Like my case. any student who devotes time and energy to write a letter to a broad forum, such as a school newpaper, deserves the courtesy and honor of having it printed. Richard Rosenberg No Jazz Here question the motives of the Union College administrators in giving Mr. Basie the Doctorate. It is strange that Union College. of all places, is giving a Doctorate of Fine Arts degree to a Black Jazz musician. As you may know. our music department has absolutely no Jazz programs; the vast majority of the students here are simply not interested in Jazz. There is the Coffeehouse for people who like Folk music, and our well financed Social Committee never fails to bring in greased up Rock and Roll bands - poor though their music may be: and if one is interested in the traditional Western music, our music department offers numerous concerts. But Jazz? No. Nevertheless, Union College is honoring Mr. Basie for his accomplishments in Jazz, because as one administrator had said, ••He is the only one of the all time greats - Duke Ellington, Ella Fitzgerald - who has not been given an honorary doctorate degree.\ Was he saying, then. that Union College is willing to recognize Mr. Basic's music as art even though there is very little understanding or appreciation of what it is. simply because other white institutions have not done so? On May 10 Union College will be giving Mr. Basie the award, and later on Mr. Basie and his orchestra will be performing for a dance at the Memorial Field House (officially called ••concert and dance\; I suppose meaning, people wlio can't dance can stand and listen, as at any other dances). I have been told that Mr. PETER PAUSE RESTAURANT :\Student Discount' I Mon.-Sat. 5:30-7:30 535 NOTT ST. Basie could not come to Union College on ...!.fl~{._j!19er occasion except for this Parents Weekend, and that playing for a dance was his idea. lrregat:dless (sic) of that, I cannot trust the motives of the administrators who have planned an event where Mr. Basie is awarded with a piece of paper in the morning,. and later in the night is to perform his art in the Fieldhouse in a dance contrived to get the kids dancing with .their parents; :and most of all, that night when Mr.,Basie is to be honored for his art ~ Black music called Jazz -. 1 sincerely doubt it if there will be many Black people on the floor dancing; I doubt it if there will be many Black people there at all. \Awarding the doctorate to Count Basie will be hypocritical only if Union did not carry o.ut our plan of improving the status of Jazz. and arts in general\·: (stated by the same administrator I had quoted previously in this letter.) Fine ... then is Union College going to install some sort of Jazz program in its arts curriculum? Ac~ording to o.ne music professor. that can't be done simply because none of the music instructors know anything about Jazz. and secondly, the music department has no money to hire another instructor. Last year. the department spent its whole annual budget to buy a grand piano. This year, a donation was made to purchase a harpsichord. But no instructor? But that is fine. I am not in this letter complaining to the music department for not teaching Jazz. After all, why would they teach Jazz when they know that only a f~w people will show up anyway. All I am saying ts this: Union College is acquiring a hockey rink, and has hired a one time great hockey coach. It has also hired a football coach who also happens to be great. Now to balance things out, Union College is going to lay its claim for greatness on a well known musician who plays Jazz, and who also happens to be BLACK (as a Black friend of mine emphasized). By slapping on a Union sticker on Mr. Basic's suitcase, I can see now that two sets of people will he influenced. First, the Black people: Union is a place where Black art. culture, and identity are highly respected. Second, the parents of the White students: Your sons and daughters are getting a well rounded, well cultured liberal education. I am neither Black nor White, but a Japanese, and a part of ••yellow horde\ .as said by a girl I've never spoke to, in reference to Vietnamese. She must have been blind. for I was sitting diagonally from her at a breakfast table wften she dropped that phrase to her friend. t address this to the administrators: Are you blind as she is, or do you just think that we are deaf and blind? By grvmg the honorary Doctorate of Fine Arts degree to Mr. Count Basie, you are responsible for the improvement of Jazz. and Black arts, culture, and identity at Union College. Why is it. then, that you are already .obliterating these responsibilities by making this a predominantly White affair? Makoto Hirano Pink Sickness during the eighth week of the term. This flick is rated ••x\ but its content goes far beyond the usual sex-and~rnore-sex of the more well known \x\ers such as Deep Throat. Basically, the movie involves a contest between three people who endeavor to attain the title of the .. filthiest\ person in the world. As the movie shows, consuming canine excremen~ is one tneans towards the tttle, Meanwhile., in order to make a living. one couple run a racket wltereby they kidnap young women. impregnate them, and sell their babies to lesbian couples. Tlte film goes on to display more ,imaginative scenes which need not :be elaborated b.ette. H<;wever, without question, the showing of this movie would not only embarrass the members of the .film committee (of which only one has actually seen Pink Flamingos) but it would also. be an embarrassment to .the U mon, College community. Censorship is not the issue here, for I do not question the right of any individual to see this or any other movie. Yet, it is embarrassing and insulting for me to .see this movie in any wise connected with the community of Union College, of which 1 am a member. Signed, Peter M. Feaman '75 Peter F. McKerran '75 Mounties For those who do not know the distinction. Mountebanks is a student activity which receives its funds for operating exclusively from. the Student Tax Fund. The Student Tax Fund consists of the student activity fee that each student at Union must pay eac)1 term. The Drama Department ts one part of the academic Department of the Arts, consisting of Drama, Music, and Art. Being an academic department. Drama receives its funding from the general budget of the College. Take for example the statement that Cabaret is a direct product of the Drama Department. The original idea for the establishment of a cabaret-type theatre belongs to Har.ry Tipton, '72, who saw the need for a style of entertainment halfway between coffeehouse and full-scale theatre performances. These early Cabarets, financed by Mountebanks, eventually feil into difficulty because of the great amount 'of management needed for such a large venture. Management of the Cabaret was taken over in spring of 1974 by Barry Smith's directing class and the Cabaret was held in what is now the new mailroom. Even these 'Were not without the help and support of the Mountebanks. The tarpaulin from J;B. covering the ceiling. many of the masks from the Wizard of Oz. the platforms. flats and lighting equipment were at one time or another jointly used and or purchased by the Cabaret and Mountebanks. This winter. Mountebanks received a $2;000 commitment from the Tax Committee, to be applied to next years' budget, for the establishment of a \Theatre Exposure Program.\ And it is again under the Mountebanks budget that we are attempting to bring in a guest director for fall term 1975. Another program, the \New American Playwright Program,\ under tbe coordination of Bob Harders. is currently being financed out of the Community Development lntern budget which is a special program out of the Dean of Students Office. The first production from this series, ••Pledges.\ by Ted Snowden. is being made possible through $1.500 which Mountebanks allotted to cover set construction. costumin,g, publicity, lighting and other production expenses. None of the financing for this new program is coming from an academic department. Is it then correct to assume that the Drama Department at Union is Mountebanks or is Mountebanks the Drama Department? Ellen F. Rasmussen Vice-President Mountebanks Old Committ~es . Continued from Page I granting and ~distribution of College honors and thus will combine within its bounds, the Honorary Degrees and Hon_ors and fellowships Committees, 4 students. The Liaison· and Governance Committee's ·duties . will b.e absorbed by the new structure and hence, it is being abolished. The old Special Eve.-ts Committee is now under the wing of the Public Relations Committee, which is responsible · for plans and policies with respect to carrying Union's message beyond its won campus. It is responsible for helping to communicate internally about the activities of the Public Relations Office and the \image\ of Union. lt is also responsible for the · annual program of speakers and special events. 2 students. Financial Aid Committee - Basically performs the same duties as the old and now defunct Student Aid Committee (applications for the Student Aid Committee will be transferred to the Financial Aid Committee). 3 students. Committee on Faculty - The old Salary, Promotion, and Tenure Committee will be absorbed by the new Committee on Faculty which will have much the same duties as the old SPT, as well as considering grievances against faculty, and internal faculty conflicts~ 2 students. New Committees Bookstore Committee - This committee is to Work out plans and policies which relate directly to the campus store. It should supply guidance and advice to the Bookstore manager about improvements which might be made. 3 students. Campus Committee - This committee considers the physical condition of .the campus and makes recommendations to the Planning and Priorities Committee or the College Senate. This committee will prepare and recommend detailed plans and policies for solving problems which arise with respect to the physical condition of the campus. 2 students. Career Planning Committee - This committee is responsible for the development of an integrated and complete set of programs with respect to career counselling and ··student and alumni placement. 2 students. Development Committee This committee meets to consult with the Director of Development to consider ways in which that office can be helpful to the total . into New campus effort. lt is charged with the responsibility for formulating fund-raising plans and policies. I student. · Educatiomll Policy Committee - This committee will replace tb.e old Education Innovation and Curricular Affairs Committees and will take over the duties of t'he Comp. Ed. Committee. Applications for the Comp. Ed. Committee will be transferred . The major responsibility of this CQmrrtittee is the formulation of policies and plans with respect to matters of educational policy and curriculum. This committee will have responsibility to encotir<t_ge and to approve or disapprove potential new programs within the curriculum, and it will have responsibility for curricuiar and educational innovations. This committee wiLll have primary responsibility for the further development of the Comp. Ed. program. and for the formulation of careful plans with respect to the number of faculty and/ or their placement in various departments and programs. This committee will also provide advice for the distribution of various faculty within the constraints on total faculty posed by the Planning and Priorities Committee. 3 students. Housing Committee - This committee will formulate policies and plans with respect to student residencies. This committee should work with resident advisors. 4 students. Planr,ing and Priorities Committee - This will absorb the old Budget and Priorities Committee (applications for the Budget and Priorities Committee will be transferred). This committee will combine the functions of responsibility for policies in budgetary areas with that of developing plans which are as detailed as possible for the future of Union. 2 students. Security and Safety Committee - This committee is to develop policies and plans with respect to security and safety procedures and to make · recommendations with respect to resource allocations m this area. 3 students. Audit Committee _,. As it stands now. there will be no Tax Committee because it will be absorbed by · the. new Audit Committee, which will have the same functions as· the old Tax Committee; applications for the ,;. latter will be transferred to the Audit Committee, which will consist of one person from each class:

with I the and uties .of Ed. of this of to icy and will within II have and This p. Ed. to This rovide of the posed This udent the This the for With the to ures ions 3 it be the the ,.. the CONCORDIENSIS, Wednesday, 'May 7, 197S J.V. Lax At 4-2 Rarely does a J.V. team·have a potential national record holder, but the Union J.V. Lacrosse team has been blessed with such a rarity. Leading the J.V.'s to a 9-1 victory over Alba11y State last Saturday, Bruce Harvey, casually .referred to as the .. Human Bulldozer,\ knocked his ninth man(in six games) completely out of the game. Adding insult to injury, Harvey, in an unforgetable burst of s,pped, raced the length of the field to score his first goal of the season. Harvey wasn't the only defenseman to score. Bill Glavin, on another fast, break, maae a beautiful assist to Hank Fleming for the first of Hank's two tallies. Mike Easton got the scoring underway with the first of his two ·goals. Then Harvey, Fleming and attackman Jim Oarafiilo threw in their goals to give the J.V's a 5-l lead at the half. In the second half, the J. V's poured it on as Easton got his second goal and Midfielders Bill Kahn, o Barry Pannell and Will Sibert each contributed a goal. In the cage, )3d Heyes was superb stopping all shots except for one garbage goal. Lee Gulas, rounding out the defense With Harvey and Glavin, played his Usual consistent game. Other middies who sav.. considerable action were Jeff Spicer, John Breault, Dan Dutelle, Kieth Mott, Rick Schwartz and Line Walworth. Throughcmt the season these players have been enthusiasti~ally supported by defenseman H owatd Lee and Dick Hoskinson, Middies Russ Braun, Don Corcoran, Jim Lowe and attackmen. Larry Wharton, Bruce H u n t i g t\(>n and D'a vi d Blumenstock. The team is abl}' coached by Earl Rogers and Joel Buck berg. The team's record now stands at 4-2, having scored victories over RPI, Syracuse, Williams and \A\ State. The lesses were against Middlebury and Siena, the latt~r a sudden death heartbreaker. Next week the J.V. play 1heir f i n a I h o me g am e against RPI on Wednesday. Come see the \human bulldozer\ in action; believe me, its wmth it. Allyne Price and Beth Herrick sandwich the opposition. photo by D:- Grossman Softba.ll by CATHY RifALS On Tuesday, April 29th, the Union Women's Softball Team went down to defeat for the second time in three outings at the hands of Fulton-Montgomery C.C.. 16-6. On the bright side for the Dutchwomen was Perky Francis' second homerun of the season. Union was down 3-0 when they finally got on the board' with two runs in the third. Gwen Young drew a walk, stole second, and was advanced to third by Ann Bonvouloir. Debbi Siotoroff singled her home and, after stealing second, was brought home on a single by Francis. Dutchmen J. V. applies ojjimsive pressure with perimeter attack .. P._l!_o_!o by D. Hamm€!rman The Garnet challenge was short lived. however, as the home team countered with 1wo runs in the bottom of the third and then put the game away with a 6-run outburst in the fourth. Gina Pugliese singled home Cathy ·Curling With constructi.on of the new Achilles Curling and Hockey Rinks running ahead of schedule, Union College has moved to put curling teams on the bonspiel circuit next winter. .. We expect to have ice by mid- October and with four experienced curlers to build around. we should be competitive before long,\ . says Jonathan Pearson lll, '42, director of curling at Union. Plans are underway for an inaugural bonspiel in January 1976 at the four-sheet Achilles Rink. he said. Forty-three Union C0llege a·IUmni now curl at various clubs iil the Grand National and all will be invited to enter rinks in the opening .event. Union expects to draw curlers fwm its student body of 2,000, its 450 faculty and staff members and also its alumni in the Capital District. A special club will be formed of curlers interested in bonspiel coll}petition. This group, which started with 17 members, elected officers and will petition for m~mbership in the Grand National Curling Club of North ,America and the U.S. founding officers of the Union College Curling Club are president. Jonathan Pearson, Ill} '42. director of alumni relati.ons, associate director of the Achilles Rink and director of curling; vice president, Alan Rand, of the campus· plumbing and heating staff and an Albany curling instructor; secretary, Joseph R. Giovannone, '76, a biological sciences major from Utica and former president of the Utica Teen-Age Curling club; and treasurer. Steven Mercurio, '76, an engineering major from New Hartford, N.Y. Professor Joseph T. Maras, director of student aid and Union's former varsity football coach. was appointed to prepare the club's application for membership in the Grand National Curling Club. TYPING Reasonable Rates Fast Ser-vice 393-2233 l. . Reals in the fourth, and Ronni Zankel plated Francis with a single the next inning. In the seventh. Francis connected with ~ Slotoroff aboard to close out the ~ scming. ~ Ann Markowitz ( 1-2) took the loss for Union. She walked two Pagel I Rochester Tenn:is The Union tennis team traveled to Rochester last Wednesday and were stung by the Yellowjackets by the narrowest of margins, 5-4. Union dropped last year's match by the same score. The team ·record now stands at 4-3 withjust two matches remaining. It was a rosy piCture for a while at Rochester as the Garnet held a J-1 advantage at one point in the singles and had taken the first sets in the two matches st·ill to be completed. However, both Roman Rakoczy and Steve Marcus dropped their second sets by identical 7-5 margins and could not recover in the third. Kevin Crawford, Rolf Lipton, and Steve Wayne all Vlon straight set matches at the one, three, and five singles positions fcspectively. Freshman Mitch Brand dropped a 6-l. 6-4 decision at number six singles. ~ It came down to the doubles then ytith the score knotted at 3 points apiece. Rakoczy and Crawford .swept their match at number one by a 6-(), 6-1 score continuing their season · long improvement in doubles .play. Unfortunately, this improvement was not evident in the other two doubles encounters vlhich were dropped in straight sets. In both matches, the inability ·of the Dutchmen to establish any net game was the deciding factor.' The racketmen next go into action on Monday, May 12th visiting Albany State. The Garnet will be seeking a sweep of the Capital District area c<Jlleges for~ third consecutive year. They then· close out their season at home against the Middlebury Panthers on Wednesday, May 14th at 3:00 p.m. Middlebury has traditionally been a strong tennis school so it should be a good closing match. Union won the contest last year 5- 4. and !ailed to fan an:yon~. Pam Macek got the win for FMCC, walking three and striking out three, while being reached for 9 hits over the seven in11ings. The next home game is against SCCC at 4 p.m., May 8, on Library Field. Men's Curling Association. Elected as the Negotiations are proceeding to bring the Silver Broom Curling School of Edmonton, Alberta, to l:>oth Union College and the Schenectady Curling Club in November. This famous \traveling school\ should permit proper training for ail of Union's new curlers at an early stage, said ..Jack .. Pearson. Lyn Su{ton, Julie Rothenstein and Beth Herrick pursue Russell.Sage laxwomen. Garnet were defeated 7-2. photo by D. Grossman d ,, I •

Page 12 CONCORDlENSlS. Wednesday, May 7, IY/) Garnet Thinclads battle Trinity in hurdle competition. Garnet Nine Win Streak At Four The Garnet baseball team extended their win streak .fo four games, edging Norwich and decisively beating Albany State and Hamilton in this week's contests. Against Norwich, Gary Borgese and Carman Gatta led theGarnet offensive with three hits and two hits tespectively. The Union Machine pounded out a total of ten hits against the well groomed Norwich Cadets. Charlie Flanagan was the winning pitcher, scattering nine hits and pitching shutout ··ball for eight innings. Against the toothless great Danes of Albany State, the Garnet nine lambasted three State pitchers for fourteen hits, thirteen walks and a dozen stolen bases. Second baseman John Busterud led the Union batting parade with four hits and five runs batted in. Chuck Lampson added three safeties and three RBis for the winners. Randy Ruschak, Carm Gatta and Gary Borgese each had two hits apiece, with Ruschak collecting 3 RBls. Warm weather seemed to limber up the Garnet's Louisvilles as their hitting continued against the Continentals of Hamilton on Tuesday. Union pounded three Hamilton hurlers for eighteen hits and eighteen runs with Charlie .. Catfish\ Flanagan spinning a three-hitter and pitching up the first shutout of the year, raising his own won-loss record to 3-0. Dan Degregory had four hits while Gary Borgese collected three with four RBI's. Ronny Westbrook also had three hits MID-SEASON BATTING AVERAGES AB H AVG John Kennedy I 1 1.000 Gary Borgese 43 17 .395 Randy Ruschak 24 9 .375 Ron Westbrook 39 14 .359 John Busterud 41 14 .341 Carmen Gatta 28 9 .321 Don Miller 41 II .268 Lou Miller 39 9 .231 Dan DeGregory 39 9 .231 Chuck Lampson 40 8 .200 Team 335 101 .301 and Don Milder led a parade of players with two hits, including John Busterud, Chuck Lamson and Lou Miller. With this week's three game sweep, the Union nine moves into the last two weeks of the season with high hopes. The Garnet pitching staff has allowed but five runs in the last four games, while the team's defense has been virtually flawless. The offense has been devastating, as Union's Diamond-men have scored 46 runs in their last four starts while pilfering 21 bases to aid the cause. Next home game is Saturday '(Parent's Weekend) n. Middlebury at 3:00 on Alexander Field. Stop by for a few innings to see the Baseballers try and maintain their winning ways .. Lax men Drop RPI by SLEEPER The Union Lacrosse team dropped its fourth straight game, an 11-9 decision to Trinity, but then came back to squeak past RPI 11-10 bringing their record to 3-4 for the season. The laxmen, who have been outpenalized by the opposition in every game this season, are not playing the aggressive type game that is necessary if they expect to win more games. The team took a 5-4 lead over Trinity in the first period, but managed only one goal in each of the middle two periods while Trinity scored six times to take a 10-7 lead into the last quarter. John Thompson showed flashes of last year's fine form and pumped in 4 goals along with two assists. However, ari otherwise impotent attack left the Garnet on the short side of the score. On Saturday the lax team traveled to Troy to face RPI. ln a shake up move, Coach Allison started an .all freshmen defense of Kenny Beck, Pete Karmen, and Doug Klepper .. He also replaced AI Ritchie with Steve Hadad in goal. With Ray Stecker sidelined due to an injury and Steve Gullans playing below par, frosh Jed Kanner teamed with ·' /, Grossman and Thompson on attack. Umon's winningest moundsman. Charlie Flanigan, in action versus Norwich. by D. McManaman The moves seemed to work as the lax team took a 6-0 lead in the first period. I~ the ne_xt 35 T rock Ends 6-3 by ALISON SLOAT As a busy week of competition drew to a close the '75 Union Trackmen finished . out their regular season running the team's season record to 6-3. Versus Hamilton last Wednesday the Garnet Thinclads emergecl victorious 88.57. Bill Mowery was the lone 'double winner for the Dutchmen with a 50.7 1 ;2 toss in the shot put and a 137' 7\ throw in the discus. Milt Herring returned to capture the 220 after a Joss in the .100. ' Jeff Brommes' 51.6 quarter mile was good for the win, and Wayne Heywood claimed 3rd in the event. Frosh Bob Moffat was awarded the win in the 880 (1:59.2) and Dave Ricks cleaTed 13' for a win in the pole vault. Later Ricks, Moffat, Heywood and Broomes combined to ice the victory cake with a 3:31.2 mile relay victory. Other winners for Union were Phil Stegmann in the high hurdles ( 16.6), Mark Scheuer in the Intermediates (56.3), John DeStefano in the triple jump (41' 5\) and Rich Norman in the javelin (183' 3\IS \). Steve Mastaitis ancl Phil Stegeman followed Sheuer in the intermediate hurdles for the first Union~ sweep of the day while Mastaitis showed up again for 2nd in the pole vault with frosh Ed Adams third for a second sweep. After a similar rout over Trinity on Saturday the Dutchmen met hard times in the traditional Union-RPJ encounter. Booker T. Jones picked up a pair of wins in the sprints stifling Milt Herring, and weightman 1om Lowell set an RPI discus record to bring a victory to the Engineers, 78-6 7. Of more importance to Union fans was musdeman Bill M'owery's fareweH performance as he once again bettered his own school record. Mowery captured the record as a freshman and has never lost the title, constantly increasing rhe distance· to the present 52' 7\. Dutchmen Jeff Broomes and Bob Moffat each picked up wins in the 440 and 880 respectively with times 52.9 and 2:02.2. Roy Wandlemair grabbed a second for Union's lone distance event score. RPI, sparked by Jones, captured fhe 440 relay but the combination of Ricks, Heywood, Moffat, and Broomes has proven successful for the Garnet thinclads as the team racked up another mile relay win in 3:32.8. An tngineer sweep in the high hurdles only helped increase the RPI point margin but Phil Stegemann's 58.7 was ample for a Union win in the 440 Intermediates. Eddie Adams led the Union sweep -in the pole vault this time with Steve Mastaitis and Dave Ricks rounding out the scoring. Ricks won the high jump at 6' and De Stefano stole third. Then in the ltmg jump a graQe saw Johnny De ·the Winner at 20' II ~\ and Ricks third. Rich Norman's 185' 2\ javelin throw iced his unblemished season record. Senior Al Gilewicz grabbed 3rd in the javelin and shot put. John Thomson lets fly against Trinity. minutes of play, however, Donny Ward scored the lone Union goal while R PI caught fire and moved to a 10-7 lead with just II minutes to play. Rich Easton was moved to attack and he responded with a goal and an assist, and Union regained the lead 11-10 on Donny Ward's third goal of the game. John Thompson had another big game with 4 G's and two assists, while Bobby Grossman came through with 2 and 3 to bring his assist total up to 23 for the season. The lax team travels to St. lawrence Tuesday, May 6th, will face Hamilton this Saturday at 2:00p.m. on Daley Field and then photo by Dan_McManoman visits Wesleyan next Wednesday. If J.T. continues to produce at his present rate and the team begins to play more aggressive ball, the season record could easily move oyer the .500 mark by then. Late Note: The laxmen dropped an 8-7 decision to St. Lawrence on Tuesday leaving the season's record at 3-5. psABELLA'S 1 F & H Pharmacy 527 UNION ST. \ Phone 370~2300 A Pl bU WI 3:1 I if gCJ an WI ar m PI su A b€ s\J se ar p·, fCJ tc '7 S1 aJ '7 d oi o: A e1 Sl a1 t~

ord the red ins a e.t 8. a n A Union College Student . Patrolman foile!l a burgi~Ji'Y a*'empt when he ; woke up in his · room at 3:00 am and saw someone lifting his wallet. Way to go, Security, . ..: ... , . ...- .. ;· ·,,, ' Vot 104, No. 23· uconcor:diensis is a press... e cannot Student elections will be postponed until May . 'Z.7. The ru._·offs wlll be on the 29th. require them to publish anything,\ - W.F. Enteman Ratificatio·n of New Constitution Declared· Void Pending resolution of legal questions Town Me~ting in the hopes of by JONATHAN SCHEER receiving a vote of confidence In an open meeting scheduled from the Student Body. for Thursday, May 16 at 7:00 In a recent development, the p.m., the Steering Committee will Steering Committee has decided officially announce that a Town to rescind their (previous) Meeting will be held· next ratification of the new Steering committee members pondering Constitutional questions with uninvited members Tuesday night, May 20 to discuss Constitution, which had come questions concerning the into effect immediately upon a procedure followed in the drafting unanimous vote of that body. of the new Constitution and Thus, the old Constitution is now certain clauses contained therein. once again in effect. ofthe student body. photo by Robee Steering Comniittee Calls Town Meeting At present, the Liais(>n and If the Liaison and Governance Governance Committee has on its Committee should decide that the agenda a .petition .of grievjinces, p roc e d ur e followed was. submitted by several students, illegitimate, the Steering which charges that the Steering· Committee must then work Committee has violated the spirit within the b~ounds of the old of the old constitution in taking it Constitution as interpreted by the upon themselves to declare the · students' complaint in order to document null and void without effect the Constitutional change. proceeding. under the stringent Student elections have been requireQJ.ents for amendment set postponed for one week, pending down in the old constitution. The the outcome of both the Town amendment clause requires a Meeting and the decision of the petition signed by one-third of the L ia is on and Governance student body before a proposed Committee. If the decision amendment can be considered. reached by this adjudicative body by THE MEMB·ERS OF THE STEERING COMMITTEE The Steering Committee approved tlie old constitution as a very positive step towards a more workable and representative government. The authority under which we approved the new constitution was one of prece().ent, set under previous Steering Committees and the old constitution (under which we are still acting). We feel that the new constitution is far superior to the old one, and allows for greater representation and communication. Questions have English Prize Spec-ial to Concordiensis The Department of English has announced the winners of four writing competitions sponsored annually at the College: Linda Peck, '78, has been named winner of the Van Orden Prize of $100 for the best essay submitted by a freshman, The Allen Essay Prize, given for the best piece of non fiction submitted by a member of the senior class, was split in two $50 amounts for Janet Klosko and Philip Mueller. The Yudis Prize for the best work of fiction went to (first place) Barbara Dewey, '75, who was awarded $100. Second and third prizes, of $50 at\d $25, went to Lynn Wintriss, '15, and Mark Wallace, '75. In the poetry competition, the prize of $·100 awarded by the Academy of American Poets will go to Aubrey Carton, ·1s. All students who sub'initted entries may retrieve their submissions in Humanities 212, any time before the' end of the term. arisen concerning the validity o:f the new constitution and articles contained therein. Jn order to allow the new government to start off on a good foot and to allow the Studen.t Forum to be 'assured of tot~tl community affirmation and support, the Steering Committee is calling a Town Meeting. It is hoped that the student body will be there to discuss this ne\\ constitution. The Steerinll Committee has decided that it is bad precedent for the governing body to pass its own constitution and wants to completely bring the issues to the vote of the community .as a whole. The Town Meeting will be held on Tuesday, May 20th, at 7 p.m. in the gym. The meeting should not take top long. As responsible members of the student body we \urge you to recognize the urgency of this meeting and to make it a point to attend. Thank you. The Steering Committee, in instructs the Steering Committee anticipating that the Liaison and to work within the amendment Governance Committee will rule guidelines of the old Constitution, that the procedure followed in elections will be postponed annihilating the old document is indefinitely until the impending legitimate, have called for the Constitutional change can be effected through the proper A war-d Precedents Set procedural channels. Concordiensis will print statements from any candidates running for public ·Office in the next issue, Wedne.sday, May 21. S:~ial to. Co~ordiensis William (Count) Basie, one of the giants of Americah jazz, and Valerie J. Hoffman, a senior from Utica, N.Y., established precedents at the 180th annual Union College Prize Day Saturday, May 10. President Thomas N. Bonner conferred the honorary degree of Doctor of Fine Arts Upon Count Basie. thus giving Union's first official recognition to jazi as an art form. · Valerie Hoffman is the first werrtan undergraduate in Union's long history to be voted by the faculty as .. the senior who has rendered the greatest service to the College in any fielcL\ She was a warded the most prestigious prize, the Frank Bailey (Class of 1885.) silver Revere bowl. She also was awarded the Freling ·H. Smith (Class of 18'67) first prize for the best historical thesis. A major in both history and psychology. with an average scholarship grade of 3.75, Ms. Hoffman has made outstandin1l contributions through several extra-curricular activities. She tutored under-achieving students during both the college year an<! in three summers, and als<> assisted in interviewing applicants for admission. She has been a Resident Advi!;or in her dormitory for two years; and has provided leadership in· student- faculty task forces on race relations and student life, and has been an academic and activity advisor to freshmen. She plans to study law after her June graduation. Bruce 0. Downsbrough of State College, Penn., was selected by President Bonner from nominees elected by the faculty, as the \senior of the best character and conduct, without respect to scholarship\ to receive the Joseph Daggett monetary award. Downsbrough also received the Freling H. Smith second prize for submitting a distinguished historical thesis. Downsbrough is President of the Union College Glee Club, which gave concerts in Alice Tully Hall. New York, in Boston and other cities. He has been Head Resident Advisor to dormitory Continued on Page 4 . Deadline for the articles is Monday,. May 19 at 5:00 p.m. Statements musf' be double- space typed, and be put either in Concordy's mailbox in the Student Activities office or in · the news room in Carnegie Hall. President Bonner addresses the crowd assembled for Prize Day festivities.

• I . ' ~.z: CONCORDIENSIS, Wf!dnesday, May 14~ 1975 -._ .. · ~-~-. 'd' . h' f ~·:4-, J h . s h .1:! 1tors-m-c 1e •..•••...•. ~-; •• :;::;.,; ...... onat aiJ.. · c eer. · . , Peter .Sobol Features Editor ... · ................ Lee Rimsk:y Culture Editors .................. Mike Affinito .. · ·navitl: Moskowitz Sports Editors ............. ; ... Kevin Cra:wf\Ord · . . Barb Dewey Managing Editor ............ · .. ' . Lance Travis Copy Editor ............... : . .... Phil Alcabes Contributing Editors . · .............. -!Jldy D~in Rob Mondschein Bill Talis Business Mana_ger ............... Robin Pellish. National Advertising .............. Betsy Barnet Subscriptions: ................... Shelley Gold . Lisa Tietz Photo Staff: ·Greg Cohen, Dan M~Manamon, Rich Guaroian, Rudy Lu, Arthur Miller, Don Hammerman, Dave Gro~sman · Staff: Bill Plaus, John Busterud, Sue Brickman, Jack Pitney, Matt Brief~Joe Friedman .. Clare ~aiken CONCORDIENSIS is published every Wednesday by the st11dent body of Union College, Old Gym Hall, Schenectady, N.Y.; to which Postal Forms 3579 are directed. Publications . Office: The Jewish World · Publications, 416 Smith St., Schenectady, N.Y. 12305 (370-5483). Entered in the Schenectady. .. Post Office as Second Class Matter. Subscription Rate 35 cents · per copy. $8;00 a year delivered anywhere'in'the United States. . ~ . - . '\ RUC wronged? Oscar Wilde once wrote, \we never seem so trivial as when we take ourselves seriously.\ As we read WRUC's Publicity Director's letter to the editors, which is in reference to the item \RUC Rained Out\ appearing in the. last issue of Concordy, the quote repeatedly comes to mind and it distresses one to think that such offense would b~. taken at a short interjection designed specifically for the purpose of making people laugh. As for the accusations of erroneous reporting on the part of Concordy's staff, they are completely unfounded. WR UC's bumper stickers do in fact- run when exposeg to water, but this is not the major issue at hand. The point seems to be that if we can't stop for a second and laugh at our mistakes then the meaning of Oscar Wilde's quote rings all too true. How will anecdotes such as the one in question in any way damage the credibility and decrease the stature of R UC, or any other group or organization, in the eyes of the campus community? WRUC will be playing music and reporting news long after \RUC Rained Out\ . is forgotten. The article will have successfully served its purpose, which was neither malicious in inte'1t nor slanderous by design, and R UC will enduret .. Problems seem to arise when we take a narrow-minded view of ourselves and our organizations as idealized working models, infallible and unerring. We lose all perspective and become thoroughly immersed in self- righteous thoughts and endeavors. If from time to time we step outside of the circles within which we function it may become evident that, in some cases, \it is to laugh,\ and it truly doesn't hurt. One would like to believe that this is the way we are at Union College, and that Provost Enteman's statement, \there is no humor on this campus\ is unfounded. MRA erash program One of these days someone is going to be driving from Lenox Road down campus around the Field House, while someone else is driving back up around that treacherous corner, and if th~y ar$! lucky, th_e~e will only be\ a few hundred do1lars ·worth of damaged fenders when they meet. • Perhaps a \Slow - Dangerous Curve\ sign could save someone from being not so lucky. PGS you said it In an effort to be merciful to our readers, we will delete ... edunllancy, \poor taste, and o1lter packaging ·materials from letters which will have no trouble making their point . anyway. Editors, Concordiensis: I was disheartened to (sic) your response ef Richard Rosenberg's letter concerning your editorial criterion. I believe that in your pursuit of making Concordy an amusing newsletter aimed at boosting student morale and involvement YOI.! have neglected or ignored a basic function of a student paper. . It is difficult to accept your view that Concordy is a newspaper for the campus rather than the College· community. Your exte~sive coverage of all Cam,pus-related activity is pertinent,. but to restrict the paper solely to Campus activities is to d~prive your readership: the College community, .of an important means of communication and expression. You consider Concord:y's primary aim as. being a lift from the hum-drumness of campus life and I applaud many of your successful efforts in satire, but 1 must stress your function is as editors not censors. Your role should be to select the responsi-ble comment in any field rather than selecting pieces to compliment, rather than draw attention away from your attempts of wit. It is concerning your policy d'n re.iecting student comments on external affair$ that you contradict yourselves. You seem to consider yourselves the champions in the case of student involvement and battling ubiquitous apathy. Yet in the past, times of greatest student involvement in both internal and external activities was when many made an attempt to look beyond the Blue Gates. Your failure to print a letter leaning in that direction would seem ·to be counter-productive in arousing student interest. : What I suggest is simple: open student expression in your pages concerning any matter. Expression not reporting; we don't require a correspondent in Saigon. or student rewrites of the N.Y. Times or UPI wire - we have en.ough data available. What is necessary is a free forum for reactions on any matter; whether · one's passions are stirred by long lines at Hale House or long lines of fleeing refugees. (Though this example evinces the absurdity of your policy.) Your cute witticisms on college life have their place, but if our pretense for congregating here is for education through various mediums of · expression, w!Jat right do you have to stifle the well-woFked words of any individual. Editor's note: Yours truly, Skip Singer Since our first issue, we have not l)ad a chance to reject any letters concerning non-campus affairs; 110 one bas written any. PGS in·soluble Editors, Concordiensis: I have always thought thl;lt it was the function of any newspaper to give the facts that are to the best of its \knowledge true. This involves, of course, the checking of all aspects of a story· (even though it may be ince>nvenient). I refer to the article on the WRUC bumper stickers: If the staff of your paper had followed up on this, they would have found out that there was no grain of truth in the article. l have already spoken to one of th.e . authors, and he apologiz~d profusely. l feel that it is also the duty of the editors to make sure that the reportel,'s do not report erroneous information. I must state that · OUR BUMPER STICKERS DO NOT RUN WHEN EXPOSED TO WATER. l will not mention the slur to the executive board. Finaally, WR UC was once mentil)ned in youc • paper to be Unions amateur radio , statie>n. I am beginning to feel that the statement should apJ?lY to you. Mike Roberts Publicity DirectQJ :Ed. Note: CONCO~DIENSIS is NOT an aQtateur radio station. DL.M bad taste Edit~~. Concordiensis, This past Week I submitted a letter to our student newspaper. The printed result was a group of sentences·and paragraphs with my name affixed. The letter was not a classic example of the use of the English language. It was not lengthy. It was not in bad taste. It was not irrelevant. It was a letter to the editor as is this. It was expected to be printed as typed. It was written the way it was; purposely. It was also edited, rearransed, dismantled, and butchered. Perhaps editing is justified when ··working with lengthy or poorly written or awkwardly constructed articles, but editing has no place in the expression of personal opinion. Of course slander, bacl taste, and impropriety must be reckoned with but my letter contained nothing even close te any of these. I find myself the victim of editing and or censorship and 1 find it extremely distasteful. I submitted an article the W$!ek of the 28th of April and it was screwed up. I've spoken to others who have suffered under the same editing axe. They-feel they were treated . unjustly as I, but they didn't bother to write back. I refuse to be silent or apathetic. The editors are wrong. The editors have been wrong before. No one is perfect. The students realize that the editors can't print everything due to special limitations. But the editors weild (sic) their axes too heavily. Perhaps (as expressed to me by others) people. refuse to waste their time writing anything to the paper because of their fear of another editorial butchering and meaning change. Also so what if someone uses the word FUCK in their writing. Do we all have virgin ears and eyes or are the editors afraid of the folks back home and the trustees? Perhaps people really don't use words like that or they are \edited\ out in the guise of good taste. ' I rest my case (most probably on the cutting room floor). Robert T. Batcheiaer '78 Editor's note: If you insist on . using words. like FUCK to make your point, we recommend you do not pursue a career in divinity. Have a good time at Pink Flamingos. PGS boston mareh Editors., Co11conliensis: On~ April 30th a group of Union Colleg~ students, faculty, and administrators met with Pete Thomas, regional director of the NAACP, to plan Union College participation in the May 17th ,Boston March Against Racism. An article was written for ·the Concordiensis·on this meeting but was not reported, thus this circular is being utilized to publicize the forthcoming demonstration in support of school desegregation. The nlack Student Alliance is Continued f,m Page 10 flamingos Editors, Concordiensis; In response to the letter in last week's issue which criticized the Film Committee's decision to show Pink Flamingos on May 27, I would like to clarify a number of things. I ) The accepted role. of the Film Committee at Union is to provide the community with a variety of films each term while recogniZing an obligation to sustain good public relations both internally and externally. 2)Pink Flamingos is, regardless exelusien Editors, Conrordiensis: The' Event was announced as the FIRST time the Union College Men's Glee Club would sing with the Union College Women's Glee Club. The Men's Glee club is an old established organization; the Women's only a few years old, Bath offer superior quality; both represent the College community and both are comprised of Union College students. Yet,' both did not sing the medley of College songs at the closing of .Prize Day ceremonies. Why not? And when the women thanks Editors, Concordiensis: The members. of the Union College Child Care Centerwish to thank the many individuals and groups who contributed to the success of our fund raising efforts during Parents' Weekend. As a result of the Auction, sale of plants. crafts, and baked goods, the CenteF earned close to $1,100. This money will enable us to continue the ever-important operation\ t~f the· Child Care Center.< .,~,' ,'; ' '' ' Thank you, Members of the Union College Child Care Center best ever Editors, Concordiensis: We would like to thank the students and faculty of Union College for making the Spring Blood,mobile one of the most successful ever held at Union. On Tnursday, May 8, 153 people registered to give blood and I 39 units were collected. There were 3S first-time donors on Thursday. The Red Cross collected 121 units from 138 people who registered Friday, including 44 first-time donors. Ferty-seven units were donated for Ray Newhouse, who is currently undergoing surgery in Boston. The thought was greatly appreciated by his family. The Annex won the keg donated by Theta Delta Chi. McKean and Delta Upsilon ran a c1ose second. William Hawkins '76 Josepb Frank '75 Ms. Lorraine Marra Bloodmobile Coordinators - . \

- ith Pete r of the College LY 17th Racism for th~ ting but LS this ~ed to :oming :>rt of ance is 0 · in last ~ed the ion to !lay 27, mmber of the 1 is to Nith a . while m to IS both trdless :d as fnion rould •liege !len's ished aly a erior the t are liege sing t the aies. men ion 1 to md the ,rts a of js, )0. to nt :re tl, ge er e 11 g t 1 CONCORDTENSIS, Wednesday; May 1¥; 1975.· _, Wood's View of Security by MATT BRIEF At the beginning of this year, what seemed like an astronomical number of task forces were formed to combat Union's problems. These task , for<::es. consisted of students and faculty and administration members. ~Many of the task f<:>rces · amounted to names and had no rea). effect on the campus. Others, ho-wever, like the Student C¢nter ·Task Force,,_ have 'taken significant steps to. improve the 'problem areas. One established problem on campus has been security. · Recently, Union hired -Lieutenant. Cliff Wood, a veteran of ~6 yeats. of law enforcement, to beef up security and assist John Klejnkauf, Director of Security~ Lt. Wood sees security at Union as a challenge in that it is different from police work; first in that Security hall no power of arrest like police ~ they must file a complaint with local police and then carry out the arrest jointly with them. The biggest problem of security, as Lt. Wood sees it, is the cooperation of students. If students are not negligent in identifying personal ar;ticles such as bikes ot stereos by their serial numbers, Security?s job is that much easier. · L-t. Wood is not of the opinion that there is a lot of theft in the · ,dorms. He concedes that there will always be some, but thinks that it is basically well-controlled. Again, cooperation of the students is paramount. Locking doors when leaving and r~gistering personal articles with Security are steps that should be taken. There are inventory forms in Security, that may be taken so· one can register his Inore valuable goods. · Rape, according to Lt. Wood, is not a major fear on this campus. However, Security is · prepared should it :become so. It should be noted that Union's last reported rape was in January of 1973, and last attempted r;eported rape was last spring, according to John Kleinkaufs file. The problem of \townies\ is left to the SecUrity patrol. If a memlber of the campus community complains about a \townie Security will escort the visitor off campus. This holds for an:y .non-Union person \acting int a suspicious manner ot creating .any problem:''-Charges are rarely pressed, yet if a \townie\ is caught in an act of breaking-and- entering. ·ar of vandalism, he may be taken to the Schenectady Youth Aid Bureau or might end up in the City police station. As for the Security policy on drugs, Lt. Wood thinks any violation of the law is important. However, there is a general policy that a student's room is his castle, and it may not be searched or entered without consent. Smoking · dope in public places is so difficult to check up on that busts ·are rare, Lt. Wood has found Union · students to be cordial and polite. When asked about specific plans (those for this year h~d included the addition of locl<ed doors in West and the night patrol), Lt. Wood replied that ·he still awaits the first draft of the · Security Task Force Report ... Wood is optimistic that security on the Union campus will continue to improve in the coming years and urges student cooperation. In the Cabaret this week: ••The Dock Brief.\ A &)ne-act play with Joe Silver and Chuck Holleman directed by Joe Millett. Admission is cheap at Sl.OO. Tickets on sale · 1 12 ·hour before shows. There will be a special FREE performance of \The • Dock Brier• on Friday, May 16th at 8:00 p.m. in the Cabaret. All are cordially invited to attend. lbub &trtn1t.a The Envelope Please ... each. However, the faculty is not the only group denied the right to win prizes. Why shouldn't Security · win prizes for a bumper year of parking tickets? Why shouldn't Maintenance win prizes for maintaining? Why shouldn't the Business Office win prizes for engaging in excessive amounts of business? These awards, mandated by fair play, could be BRIAN J. SHOOT It seems that student opinion vis~a-vis Prize Day is split into two parts. One group of students, . those who did not receive prizes, · feel that Prize Day is grossly unfair. Another gro·UP of · students, those who did receive prizes on Prize Day, believe that Prize Day is an embarrassment, a scheme concocted with the goal af making students ieel · Nat'/ News!· So~ skid row vagrants in · Sacramento, California, lntve asked President Ford to designate them as war refugees beeause the · tent cities prepared for .the Asian exiles \look pretty good to us.\ (UPI) ·uncomfortable. Many a student has joined the nameless tanks of those who have· faltered. on .that long trek from seat to podium. Yet, Prize Day is· an idea well worth saving. Prize Day is a chance fot students to win money and prizes. Prize Day provides parents the opportunity to witness pomp and circumstance. Most importantly, Prize Day gives the College community the chance to see the President and Deans in their really nifty robes. Tbe problems with Prize Day are three-{ol<,t. First, with .. re~pect to fields of study, the distribution of prizes is unjust. Secondly. a significant segment of the College community is categorically denied the r.ight to win prizes. Thirdly, not enough prizes are awarded. Perhaps the most striking example of the inequities in the distribution of prizes is that while prizes are awarded for excellence in His tory and Spanish (as well as other fields), there is not one prize awarded for excellence in the subject that has attracted more students than any other department on campus, ·Comprehensive Education. Now, it certainly seems that if Comp. Ed. is so important that all students should take some, then Comp. Ed. is important enough to rate one measly award. In addition, it might be n~;>ted that the dearth of prizes in certain fields may very well accoUnt for the · Jack of student interest in those areas, and the subsequent ·shortages of qualified professionals in these neglected fields. Union has never, nat even cnce, awarded a prize. for the most ·outstanding pre-med majoring in Medieval History! Is it any wonder that there is such a Conjecture by PETER SOBOL With construction· on Achilles builders: ·the term will soon be , , Rink rushing right along on over. we will all go off for our schedule, one may nevertheless summers, and those of us that begin ta wonder about two remain will not have a hope of things. How far south is Daley staying the chainsaws from the field going to be moved and same sinister attack they made on whatever happened to the plan to the trees at the rink site last . Concordiensis reporters whg •. put the Brook ~n a culvert? summer. were on the scene were able to • secure an interview with one of , the refugees.,to-be,. Erasmus Steamtie. Steamtie spoke to reporters from inside the piano crate behind tlte box spring factory that he calls home. , Through the slats Mr. Steamtie told ace reporter Al Kaseltzer, ••1 . ain~t seen nothin' like it, not never. Spent most of my life in · pianet boxes and figured l had it Locking the Brook up·. underground would save the rink from one day possibly being washed down to Richmond, or so original planners had said. Erosion of the rink could also be prevented by moving the rink site south, out· of the t~nge of the angry Brook, with the consequent moving of Daley field~ the necessary replanting of the scoreboard, and the possible removal of the Norway maples lining the walk to Lenox Road. ·made. Never thought I'd see this old honey outclassed,\ as he slapped the crate with his hand, ·knocking out one of the slats. 'The Brook has not been locked Kaseltzer had trouble up,. and anyone who has attended It is rumored that, in the long range planning maps of the campus, Phi Delta ·Theta, Delta Phi, and the field between them, have been replaced by parking areas. The occupants of these houses would be well-advised to stick around for the· coming summers. armed perhaps with napalm funnelators and other anti-bulldozer warheads, or they . may come back to find that their houses have been deemed o-bstacles to progress on the campus. explaining to Mr. Steamtie the a lacrosse game knows that the ALL ORIENTATION true background of the occupants north endlit:te is as close as it can . ADVISORS f. th · · dwell1'ngs he env1'es so be to the rink fill without being · o · · e new · · There will be an important · h Wh. · t · ·ld th·at· the A. st'ans under it. So Dale. y field will have muc · .· en ° · organizational meeting and · tt' b b. d t'n thet'r own to be moved. a min.imum of th. e were ge mg om e · · · smal'l informal group St t. s· pon· de·d · distan. ce from the lacrosse endline · country • · earn te re · · ' diseussion, with beer and ••H k 1 t b m·bed rt'ght here . to. the soccer endlirte to the south, , ec • ge o ; . munchies provided, on h · I n aft\rd 1't \ .. putting the southeast corner of w en · ca · '\ · Tuesday, May 20th in Strauss . Ab · t h. h to success t'n · the soccer field under the · · ou · ts opes ~· r · Lounge. Every effort should be being labelled a refugee by the . scoreboard. made to attend. If you cannot; · Preside~t. Steamtie said, ••well, please c()ntact Harriet Kaplan serious shortage of qualified alchemists? The second problem with. Prize Day undedines a most glaring miscarriage of justice. Many prizes are awarded each Prize· Day to the students with the highest academic standing. This seeins only fair. since high cumes are probably better than low cumes. However, why should students get all the credit for high cumes? After all, the professors are really the people responsible for grades. Since students are rewarded for getting high grades, professors should be rewarded for giving high grades. Therefore, the ten professors with the highest POAG scores (Percentage Of A's Given), should each receive a thousand dollars. This proposa'l could be· easily financed by taxing the ten professors wih the lowest POAG scores a thousand dollars financed by selling the Nott. Thus, fhe problem ·of the final disposition of the Nott could be solved simultaneously , with the financing problem created by additional rewards. Yet, even with the adoption of these proposals, it would still be true that too few awards are distributed. Consequently, it is also proposed that each · student· j receive a cash prize of five- hundred dollars. This could be financed by a five hundred dolJar increase in tuition since, due to the present state of tuition, no · one would notice an extra five hundred dollars. What k~d of man reads·Coneo:rdy? The man with a smile on his face, the man who stands out in a crowd. FACT: More people read Concordy than have volunteered to demolish the Nott Memorial singleQ sure. 1 been a refugee since 1935. 1 It is valuable to note the (64ll) or .Bill Talis (l 4 6-9 6 88) got seniority; and heck, 1 was exquisite timing which hilS once or Mr$. Snowden (6116). photo by Robee .L-b_o.rn __ he_r_e_!·~·--------------~-a_sa_._in __ b_e_e_n __ e_m_P_.lo.y_e_d __ b_y_._o_u __ r ~--~==================~----------------~-------------------------------J handedly.

CONCORDIENSIS. Wednesday. May 14. 1975 b· .~,,gqAililJIJ 0 -~c~~o\\:0/l>e\ge ;:~:~~ me~b~rs dis~sing report~ submitted by the Ad Hoc Committee:s on Governance and Community Participation. . R. di Photo by M1ke otun Scaife Talks About Union . concent'ration. To this end, he h~.s teaming process .. . \I a~ c_o?cerned With people been an advocate of changing the Considering this attitude to be f1rst as t~dtviduals, and s~cond as Comp. Ed. distribution more. i~portant ~han th~ actual stud~nts, I feel responstble ~or requirements, allowing freshmen mecham~m of action, _Scaife plans forci!l~ student~ to b~ active science majors, for example, to to use his recent ~ppomtment as a partrcJ~ants, m thetr own take both their Freshman Danforth Assoctate. to. try to educati<?n. In a recent Electives in Center 1. Reciprocal further a commumcatt_ve_ and conyersatwn, ~r. Charles W.J. interaction of this sort, Scaife responsive atmo~phere withm the Scat~e. Chemistry Department feels, would necessarily involve College commumty. Although no Chairman, shared these. thoug~ts opening new channels of definite programs . ~~':e been on th~ C<?llege commumty and Its communication, through which drawn up, possibilities ~or organtzatt?n. people in each center would be proposals for Danforth fun~:hng Dr. ~ca1fe was recently select~d able to express their own ideas include _ . a -·student adviso;- ~o receive. ~ Denfo~h. fellowship, and purposes; in effect, this would preceptonal p~ogram, formed m !n recogmu?n ~f his mvolvement aid in bringing together the association wtth the Dean _of · m commumty life on t:ampus. College community: Student's Office. As before, Sca~fe Scaife first sp?ke o~ . the Dr. Scaife admits that he has env 1 s 1 ons this preceptonal influence ?f h1s rehgwus the most concern for and the program to be a system of cross- background m t~e deve_lopment most to offer to the person who Division inv~lvement and of an open, canng attitu_de . of needs the most help. He realizes advising, beginnmg at the grass ~oncern for people. Begmmng that it is easier to organize and roots level. with usi~g the Freshman ~ecord teach a group of highly motivated In con~lusion, Dr. Scaife has for learnmg the f.lames _of his new people than it is to provide initial shown himself to be. ~ . man students . befor: meet_mg them, motivation for learning. With this working hard and glVlng ?f Prof. Scaife acuvely tnes t? o~en aim in mind, Scaife is willing to himself to invol\:e students . m ut:' ch~nnels of commumcation administer \a good kick in the their own educati?nal_ ~ursmts. With hiS student~, and. encourages pants\ and take the time With man r I~ d IV I d U a} S them _to talk wtt~ him and ask necessary to bring about a participating m ~his . way, ~he questiOns outs1de of the positive attitude of involvement spirit of responsive n~terachon classroom. T~e need f~r _a on the student's part in the will flourish here at Umon. student's total mvolvement m his own education, according to Dr. Scaife, results in part from the subject· matter covered in the science courses. Sensing that science is felt by -many here at Union to be a non-active entity, Dr. Scaife has developed the curriculum of the Chemistry Department to encourage laboratory experience. In his own recitation section, Scaife consistently challenges and questions his students, forcing them to think about chemistry, to become involved. Considering actual learning to be an integral part of the teaching process, Dr. Scaife encourages the members of his department to remain fresh in their specific fields. This is accomplished through further study at other institutions, and attendance at regional or national conferences. Prof. Scaife feels that emphasis on scholarly achievement an1J research is rightly placed on \the process, and not the product\ here at Union. Members of the Chemistry faculty are encouraged to sharpen their teaching wits by writing out their lecture material or research progress, as this process forces each professor tg think through his subject matter with the purpose of organizing and structuring later presentations. Or. Scaife has undertaken an active role in the reorganization of certain areas in the College curriculum. He ·feels strongly that each Union student needs to generate capability in different academic areas~ Dr. Scaife has been hard-nosed on advising people to _get involved in centers Oilier thari their areas of Birth C-ontrol this entailed. An appointment by JANET RABER must be scheduled and there is To learn of the services the approximately a two-week wait. Schenectady area offers not only They offer eight clinics, by to Union College students, but to appointment only, with twenty all seeking information about patients to a clinic; six in each b i r t h con t r o I, pI a nne d clinic are new patients. There parenthood, abortions, would be an interview and educational training, or assistance discussion of medical history. All with emotional stress, I set out to services rendered are confidential. visit the sites where some of these Next one WQUld attend services are delivered. educational services which include Beginning at the College films (one of which deals with infirmary, I spoke with a nurse birth control methods), books, confidentially, pretending to be in and paJllphlets, and .counseling on need for birth control. She kindly the choice of birth control informed me that they dispense methods. no controls and offer only A ,, complete gynecological gynecological services. She examination would· be referred me to Planned administered, which includes a Parenthood on 414 Union Street. physical, hematocrit, pap smear, At Planned Parenthood I spoke venereal disease testing, pelvic with Mrs. Dietz, the assistant examination, and urinalysis. Then director, who informed me of the patient and doctor would discuss many services offered. Planh~d the best birth control method and Parenthood is not only located m she would be sent back to Schenectady County; Hamilton, counselors to discuss the use of Schoharie and Fulton counties this method. All this would occur have similar services. Planned· on the day of the appointment. Parenthood began in Schenectady Patients return for. regular in 193S and has grown to sport a gynecological examinations. _ staff of 79 which includes doctors, Besides offering birth control, nurses, professional counselors Planned Parenthood offers ~any and a field service director. They other services. They treat mmor also have volunteer nurse aides, vaginal infections, refer patients counselors assistants, and board to doctors and clinics that treat of directo~s. Doctors receive a infertility, explain sterilization nominal' fee. All services and procedures to both men and contraceptives are on a sliding fee W<>men, and refer patients to scale, according to the patient's doctors who can perform the ability to pay. operations. If a patient proves to Concerned with the process of be pregnant, they will discuss the obtaining E_!!\th. _£_ontrol, . l opt_ions_ available, sue.~ as questioned Mrs. Deitz on what Continued on P~ge 10 Senate P.asse-s Governance. Report On Tuesday afternoon, May 13, the All-College\ Senat.e reconvened the adjourned meeting of April 29 to consider the report of the Ad Hoc Committee on Governance. The report had been tabled two weeks ~go pending consideration by a general faculty meeting. At that meeting, Professor Sharlet, with supplementary assistance by Professors Shick and Jonas, offered six amendments making minor changes in the membership in two committees (Educational Policy and Planning. & Priorities) and changes in the wording in the charges of the Faculty Committee, the Planning and Priorities Committee,. and the Personnel Committee. In addition, two amendments altering and clarifying the relationship of committees to the All-College Senate in the policy making process were offered by the Chairman of the Ad Hoc Committee, Jonathan Levin. After unanimous approval of the report as amended by the AU- College Senate at yesterday's meeting, the report· was divided into several sections, including Professor Roth, Division Ill reptesentative, considered the report's recommendation to dichotomize academic and non- academic faculty advising \mischievous and insulting to good faculty advisors.\ Provo~! Enteman. in response to th1s charge. said that ·when the ~d Hoc Committee on Commumty .Participation devised the new preceptor plan, they had taken into account the overai'l failure of the present .system of faculty advising. The general consensus of the faculty members present at the Senate meeting Wa!l that the participation plan should stress the idea of community service as an expectation rather than a requirement. The final vote on the~ report is expected to take place at the next All•College Senate meeting scheduled for Thursday, May 22. - Valeri,e Hoffman committees and the structure of Continued from Page 1 the Senate, in order to put the 'students, President of the Delphic report in the form o~ le~islation. Society - the honorary student All aspects ~f the legtslat~o~ w_ere- service group which arranged this passed With overw e miUg 25th annual Parents' Weekend ~ support. T~ell nbew fgt:oevcti~rvnan~ne and served on five campus-wide structure• WI e e !' · e I \tt comm1 ees. September, 19?5. . ~or being the •\senior deemed A furt?er p-Iece. of busmess at , most promising for graduate yesterdays meetmg was the study and eventual service in the considera~ion of ~~e ~eport on field of college teaching,\ the Community Par!ICipa~JOn .. !he George H. Catlin (Class of 1867) report m~;:t With Immediate prize .of $2,000 was awarded to opposition by sev~r~~ me~?ers. of stanley J. Kamin sky, a the fac?lty. An lOitlal Objection philosgphy major of Albany, was vmce~ by Pro~e~s.or Jonas, N.y. Kaminsky also received the representative of Dtyt.ston. II. I_n Andrew w. Archibald (Class of response t? a prov1s1on m thts II:S72) monetary award for being report Whtch woul~ allo~ the the senior in Humanities with the granting . of academic_ credtt !or highest scholastic ~tanding. outstand~ng .. c~mmuntty serv!ce, President Bonner and the Jonas said, It IS not th~ function College deans presented more of t~is body to le¥Islate !h~ than sixty awards to grantmg o~ ac~demtc cre:tt. undergraduates for a variety of Se~er~l d ~~~ ty c~~:u:i~; achievements durin~ the outdoor mat~tame . a _a b Prize Day ceremomes conducted service reqmrement cannot ~ at noon in the Schaffer Library accep. table on the grounds that Jt c t tt ded by u· nion's 2 000 Jd b · \ble to clearly our • a en ' ::r~ne :h~~p;~~~Jd constitute students and their parents, faculty fulfillment of such a requirement. and staff members. ··---- • Send for your 1 Student I.D~Card and enjoy I special rates at 1 Hilton Hotels and Inns coast I to coast. (Grad 1 and faculty, too.) Just mail this coupon to Hilto.n Hotels Fulfillment Dept.. Suite 200, I 205 So. Bevedy Drive, Beverly Hills. CA 90212. ,I Namr~----~--------------~--~--- .1 Addres;:;..... ____________ .......,_....._ ___ I City . .. . . . State . .. . .·. ip · : I College . . . . Class of 19 __ _ :xHILTOIIIOIELS! ... -- .. -------- ..• - ..

/ Ill the to ()0- ing to ost his A.d ity ew en of lty he he he :ss as a 1e· at te y, ic lt is e d e e e ) ) f ' .. CONCORDIENSIS, Wednesday, May 14, 1975 . . - PageS The Charles Proteus. Steinmetz Electric Car by HOWARD EISENSON In its July, 1971 issue, the Union College Chro-nicle announced U nron~s acquisition of the 1914 Detroit Electric automobile once owned · by t-he late Dr. Charles Proteus Steinmetz. The car is still here and the restoration project begun nearly four years ago is still in progress. We sbould paUl~e to consider who this man Charles Steinmetz was. and why the big deal about his old car. The name \Steinmetz .. should at least be vaguely familiar, fot Steinmetz Hall is an integral part. of our Science an(l Engineering Center. Perhaps you have ev~;n noticed the color portrait of Steinmetz in the reading room on the first floor of the libr&ry. Recruited by President Andrew Raymond to organize a Dep.artment of Electrical Engineering at Union, Steinmetz served from 1902 to 19 13 as Pt:ofessor and Chairman of tliat department, and for the next ten years was a guest lecturer and part-time professor of electrophysics. From all accounts, he was a favorite with students; this fact is supported by his invitation to become· an honorary member of the Phi Gamma Delta fraterntiy. Steinmetz was born in Breslau, -- Germany in 1865. During his college years, he was active in an organization of socialist students, and fled the country for Switzerland in 1888 when friends warned him that Bismarck's repressive police were planning to arrest hirt4He came to the United States in 1889, a penniless, hunchbacked student of mathematics and engineering who couldn't speak a word of English. ·With a letter ofintrodlictionfrom a friend in Switzerland, he managed to secure employment as a · draftsman at Rudolf Eickemeyer's electric motor factory in Yonkers, New York. Directing his trem~ndous genius and energy to the study of electrical phenomena, young Steinmetz soared within a few years to prpminence as one of the world's leading authorities in the field. When Eickemeyer's firm was bought up by General Electric, Flor-entine J.test.a ura:n t 108 Jay Street E11:joy our Italian-American --Cuisine at Reasonable Prices Specialty of th'e House - Veal Union College Students A1wavs Welcome .· . - Steinmetz came with it. (In fact, GE made the purchase solely to acquire the talents of Eickemeyer's brilliant engineer, for Steinmetz was too loyal to he lured away from hi!!> first employer). He was transfeffed to Schenectady in 1894, and became the company's foremost research and consulting engineer. Steinmetz's major scientific achievements involved his work with alternating current. The ge-neration, long-d,istaoce tran.smission, and utilization of high voltage ele~tricity are largely possible because of his discovery of the principles governing the operation of alternating current devices. As worthy as his scientific accomplishments were, Steinmetz was also very touch a humanist. He retained the social idealism of his youth throughout his life, and took· an active interest in Schenectaqy civic affairs. As Chairman of the Board of Educatjon, he initiated many desirable innovations in the public school system. Serving later as president of the Common Council, he continued his efforts for i!ll-Provement of the schools and the advancement of such other projects as a system of city parks. In addition to writing several textbooks and delivering . many papers on electrical engineering subjects he wrote and lectured on a wide range of non- scientific topics. · The entire world, and especially the people of Schenectady, were grieved by the news of Steinmetz's death in 1923. One of the mart¥ tributes paid him was a $25,000 donation to Union by General Electric, that was designated the Charles P. Steinmetz Scholarship Fund of the General Electric Company. In reporting the donation, the Union Alumni Monthly of December, 1924 further noted \ ... we hope that time will come when some physical memorial to our distinguished Professor. of Electrical Engineering may accompany the living memorial which the General , Electric - Company has . established. In September, 1971 a group of Union students began restoration work on Steinmetz's old Detroit Electric. 721 ALTAMONT AVE. NO DELIVERY CHARGE WITH TWO PTZZAS W&DD.IVD 1JNI1I. MIDMIGHT C•D37..._5al When Dr. Steinmet.z (or \the doctor\ as he came to be known) purchased his car in 1914, an electric was c~;rtainly a logical addition to a garage already housing a Marmon gas car and a Stanley Steamer. Instead of the usual Exide batteries, Steinm~ti's Detroit Electric had the more durable Edison storage batteries, a gift from his friend, Thomas Edison. The heavy cells took up all the space under the hood and rear deck of the car, but were able to give it a top speed of only about 20 miles per hour (though Emil Remscheid, the doctor\s lab- assistant, claims that he once hit 'J.7 mph going down a steep hill) and a range of 40-50 miles before they needed recharging. Manufactured by the Anderson Electric Car Company of Detroit, the Detroit Electric was certainly one of the most luxurious cars of its day, and the model · Or; Steinmetz owned was the top of the line. The duplex drive brougham sold for $3;000 in the days when that meant a lot of <;ar. Totally silent,- clean, smooth- running, and easy to start, these cars -definitely had the edge over early gasoline-powered vehicles. The car was - contwlled by means of tillers instead of a steering wheel and gas pedal. One tiller was for steering, the other for selecting the five forward, five reverse. and electric brake positions. There were also dual braking pedals on the floor. Unique to this model were the dual controls. The car could be driven either from- a front swiveling bucket seat or from the roomier back seat. The plush interior was fully carpeted and the upholstery was a very durable (see for yourself) and elegant tufted corduroy. Other luxuries included side carriage _lamps and curved window glass. Perhaps the best thing Anderson did for their cars was to start making the bodies out of aluminum. Their original purpose was to give owners a better paint job and a lighter Bill Smith, Howard Eisenson, and Lance Jacobson prepare for an electric Sunday spin. '\'carriag~ but if it were not for the aluminum, the basic body structure would not be in the excellent restorable condition it is in todav. No ~ne se~ms to know just what happened to the ':electric after Steinmetz died, so there is a big. _gap in its history until 1964 when Robert Morris of Scotia found it abandoned in a field near Freeman's :Bridge, and towed it to his home. Through the efforts of a student who heard that it was lying idle· in the area, Union acquired the car from Mr. Morris after it was verified to be the original Steinmetz. vehicle . The last published report on the progress of the restoration appeared in the February 25, 1972 issue of CQn4!ordhmsis, in which it was mentioned that the body had been removed from the chassis and that work was proceeding toward removal of the motor, which a department of G.E. had offered to rebuild. Under the leadership of Malcolm Donald ('74), and with the assistance Of project advisor Professor Thomas Hoffman, the restoration has come a long way. The motor has been rebuilt, the badly corroded and twisted steel chassis replaced, and the steering, suspension, electric controls, and running gear largely restored to good working condition. There is a great deal yet to do. Jobs now under way include replacing the original wiring, restoring, and replacing rotted portions of the wooden body frame, cleaning, ,painting, and replacing aluminum and metal parts. and searching for parts to replace those missing or badly damaged. In the future, final painting and restoration of the carpets and upholstery will be added to the list of jobs. Malcolm and many of the others originally working on the project were engineering students. Now the half dozen students actively involved represent a wider range of interests and abilities. Much of the work has gone slowly, but with the advice and assistance of College faculty and staff and local experts, as well as by trial and error, the wor~ers have learned_ and accomplished mu.ch - and have had a go9d time in the process. On May 23, a week from this Friday, from to a.m. to 5 p.m., an open house will be held in the workshop in tlte machine lab behind Carnegie, so that students can. find out more about the restoration of this most fitting memorial to Charles · P. Steinmetz. Robert Morrs, left, and Prof Thomas Hoffman, right. The Car, center . . !!JIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIilllllll!lllllllllllltlllllll!i I ALGUR ~ ! LIQUOR ·§ i CENTER i - - - - - - E' 75. 1 Eastern A vt:. § I §· 1. · 34.6~stst i i LOWE~T PRICES E I All.:OWEij i IS N.Y. STATE il . I limfttfti~HIIii Announcing a seminar sponsored by Sigma Xi and the Biology Department: Dr. Ian Tizarcl, · from the Department of · Veterinary • Microbiology and Immunology at Ontario Veterinary .College, will speak on \Immunity to Toxoplasrns., Thursday, May 29 at 4:30p.m. '-~ ss _016 •. PETER. PAUSE RES·t1URANT ·~~ St-,Jent Discount ·-Sat. 5:30..7:30 s$5 NO'IT ST. .... :!

Page6 CONCORDIENSI$, Wednesday, May 14, 1975 - v 0 lr h l' d 0 \t;] p t d ll 11 r v A Parents~ t

1975 Page7 % a 0 ,. s eekeod To Remember · fh.ot()s by Arthur Miller ~ t)~fLr .I t, ~·J,. . - r' ~f ~ ·->!~ ·,._ , > &·Staff··· ., . ', . ' .It ,,..,

r:!_~_a ---- ____ -:--------_;:C:..;;O;_;..~.;.:C:;.;O::;.;R:.,:;D:;;;. ;,:.:1E:'N.:.!.;S:;:,;'l:.::S~, ..!.!ffi~ednesday, .May . ....!l:.24!_,!.:: 19~7.::::.5_,_ _________ __,_ _______ _ OIJ Broadway: Chick Corea, sur,-ounded by. Return to Forever Corea, pioneer of • Jazz, to perform by MEL RODRIGUEZ requires a bit more musical Chick Corea is preparing to intelligence to appreCiate than invade Memorial Chapel <>n May that of your average Donny 24 with the intention of forcing us Osmond AM-radio cretin, but its to have a \good time\. Being basic intent is to boogie and responsible young American simply have fun. students, we will surely be able to unite against this lunatic and show him we're not interested in anything so frivolous as a. \good time\. Chick Corea is an outstanding composer-pianist who has recently been moving a. way from traditional acoustic jazz and has been one of the more successful and exciting 'pioneers in the amalgamation of electro nics, jazz, and rock. He has played with Miles Davis, Joe Far~ell, Elvin Jones, and his compositions have been performed by many of rnodern jazz's most riOtable figures. He will be J<>ined in concert by his excellent band, Return To Forever, which includes bassist Stanley Clarke, drummer Lenny White, and guitarist AI DiMeola. Clarke is one of the finest bassists in the world today; he has j)ecome a fixture in modern jazz· of virtually legendary pro-portions at the ripe old age of 22. Drummer White provides a powerful and inn~>Vative· rhythmic foundation for the other so[oists. DeMeola, the most recent addition to the group, has been developing rapidly for the past year, both as a musician and a performer, and his most recent gllitar work has been superb. This is a band not to be missed. They like to describe their tnllsic as .. sophistifunk,\ meaning_Jt Pre-registration materuls for fall term will be available - Pledies to portray frat :life M.ay 30. You are cotdially invited to the event which, indications, promises overwhelming. ihe box office at Memorial iheMre reserviqg tickets for from all to be. the Nott is now the 8:00 performances; It is open betwee~ I;OQ p.m. and 5:00 p.m. The brotherhood lo(>ks forward to performing for you, The Tuesday and Wednes.day nigh.t performances are foliC:> wed by free beer. · Union College, the mother of fraternities, has once again endured the \blessed pain.. in bringing , to life the !>rothers of Omicron \ Delta - the fastest growing fraternity on the Union College campus. This week, the following tnen were welcomed into the ranks of the O.D. bro1herhood ~ also known as the Order of the Wild 'Boar. This week's roll call is Mike Goldsmith, Barry Markman, Ken S paatz, Don Milder, Peter Elkin, Gary Ha:ber, Jim Stine, Chris O'Connor, Jack Stein, Christopher Chalifoux, Ben Green and Barry Rothman. \ Hillel events :In celebration of their recent initiation, the no. brotherhood would like tq announce the ·enactment of seven weeks of their lives in the production of the play 'Pied11es to be .presented at Union Friday, May 23 through Friday, by BOB l<ASL()VSKY The Jewish Festival of Shavuot, commemorating the receiving of the Torah at Mount Sinai by Moses, begins Thursday evening at dusk, and runs throt.~gh Friday and Saturday. until dusk. Kiddusll for the Festival will be at 6:00 p.m. both Thl,lrsday and Friday evenings, in the West College Dihing Hall. AH are invited to attend. This Saturday night, May J 1, at 8:30 ptn,. Hillel and the Christian Fellowship . will co.- sponsor a square dance, on ~ibrary Plaza, Weather permitting, or in Old Chapel if it rains. On Sunday, •May 25, llilleJ·wilJ ho'ld a ~agel 8runch, at 1 hOO a.m. The guest 11peaker· at that time will be ;J>rofessor Eisenstadt, of Union's Mechanical Engineering Departme:nt. WRUC jock schedule Professor Eisenstadt spent several months in Israel;. he will share his impressions. comments, and slides with us. Reservations can be made by caJiing Bob KasJovsky, All names shown correspond to the following time slots: 2 pm to 5 pm; 5 pm to 8 pm; 8 pm to II . pm; II pm to 2 am (sign-off) MONDAY: Steve Goffner (rock); Jim Thomas {rock); Marc Jaffe (rock); Lloyd Saberski (rock), TUESDAY: David Eilbott (rock); Cobb Milner (rock); Steve Reinhardt (rock); Mike Roberts (rock). WEDNESDAY: Roy Zuckerberg (rock); Raphael Davis (jazz); Scott Glass (folk); George Lipsky (rock), THURSDAY: Bob Kaslovsky (rock); Chris Fink {rock); Don Kaplan (rock); Ruth Rappaport (folk). FRIDAY: M:ike Perlman (rock-oldies); Glen Emelock (rock•\Prevue\); Eli Portnoy (rock); Mark Shnitkin (rock). SATURDAY: Steve Sokal (rock); Surprise (?); Dan Rosenbaufll (rock); Jim McParland (rock). SUNOAY: On Sundays a different schedule is followed. 12- 2, Ruth Rappaport (classical); 2'- 4, Steve Sokal (chtssical); 4.,7, An<Jy Qenison (jazz); 7~8, Bruce Sostek (interview-jazz); 8-ll, Rich Forselius (rock); 11-2, Alan Mann (rock). NEWS: Daily at 3:30, 5:3(), and 10:45 pm. SPORTS: Daily at uewstime a11d at 12:15 am most nights. .. ~ - - - - ·- t t t t t THE FILM COMMITTEE PRESENTS ,. ALL THAT HEAVEN ALLOWS starring Rock Hudson Jane Wyman ' at 370-6456. · On Wednesday, May 28, Hillel will hold elections for next year's officers. Tlte elections will take place in Humanities 016 beginning promptly at 7:30 pm. , Israeli dancing continues, every -Tuesday evening in Arts 104. Sabbath services are held each Friday eve11ing at 8:00· pm; in Strauss Lounge, on the first floor of Carnegie Hall. THE FILM COMMITTEE presents The Conversation -1CADEMY AWARD NOMINEE FOR BEST PICTURE with Gene Hackman Friday - 10:00 Sat., Sun. 7, 9~ 11 75c: SS016. ·Vemine's .Plant Room B. Union St .. Opp . A&:P· - . .. \ ' ~ ~\ Tuesday 2S¢ SSOlti 8& 10 372-6761 ·<,# 0 ~ ~·. .~6t-V '\ ~Q~~ t. ...._..... ~- in the Office of the Registrar, Room 2, Administration. Building, beginning Monday, May l!J. Students are urged to promptly secure their copy ~f • these materials. Students wllo do not plan to return to Union for the fall term, except graduating seniors, should report to the Dean of Students ami give notice of their plans. Barry Markman points to himself during his portrayal of an Omicron Delta pledge. The world premiere of Ted Snowden's PLEDGES will be May 23. See the stars of Broadway and be there! . AN EVENING OF KURT WEILt Directed by Students should confer witt. Faculty Advisers during tlte five days May 19-23. Same departments may annomce special arrangements for advising. Please be alert for snell announcements. Course requests are due at the Office of the Registrar not latel' than May 26th. A tett dollar ($10.00) lat!,! fee will be ~essed thereafter. 'Sen:ring Union For Three Generations' 166 .Jay St. For Honest Service ' and Good Jew .Jry . . Rosie Mauro and Tim Doyle A major figure in musical theatre, from pre• Nazi Germany to· the Broadway-stage ·of the late '30's and '40's,. Weill is the composer of· such successful musicals as The Threepenny Opera, The· Rise and Fall of the City of Mahagony, Lady in the Dark, One Touch of V.enus and Lost in tlte Stars. Thursday, May 22nd -first show only Frid&y, May 23rd, Sat., May 24th, 8:00 pm 'XINE, CHEESE AND BEER WILL BE SER. VED!! Admission - Sl.OO

twee~ The to esday 17, the co·~ on ther if it that ical e:nt. his be in CONCQRDiENSIS, Wednesday, May 14, 1975 Voice: Glee Club receives ovations SPECIAL TO CONCORDIENSIS We<lnesday, May 7, in Alice Tully Hall in Lincoln Center, the Union College Glee Club gave its ultimate performance of the season, jointly with the Wheaton College Glee Club. The Union singers (as. well as the other musicians involved) seemed The department of the Arts is currently conducting tbird· year. evaluation of Prqfesso.-. Robert K. Mo·orhead. . Members of the C()llege Communi•y who wish to contribute to tht:se evaluations are in'¥ited to forward their remark's in, writing to Professor 'H~gh Allen Wilson, . Chairman, Dept. of the Arts. EASTER SEAL BIKE·A·THON Sunday, May - ts; 11 a.!D.-4 · .. p.m. Central Park Main pl;lr.king area Help HQudicapped • Cbildr~n. Sign ._.P today ,..... .C.II' ;346~ 9730~ Phi Delta Theta. Refreshments - . Burger King and Prizes! Register at Student Activities Office. inspired by the &urroundings; they put their best effort into Arthur Honegger's King David. Honegger's music, composed in 1921, was originally intended as incidental music to a dramatic production af King David. Two years later he rearranged it into an oratorio, adding a narration to link the parts. The three .performances by the Union- Wheaton groups used Honegger's original orchestration, namely a small wind orchestra, piano, celesta, and harmonium. The narrator at Lincoln Center was Academy Award winner John Houseman; Edward Dahlstedt narrated the Boston and Schenectady performances. In addition to over 110 voices, the 16-piece orchestra, and the narrator, King David als() requires four soloists. They were At -last: WRUC--FM WRUC finally joined the host Preliminary reports indicate of FM stations in the Capital that WRUC's range to the-east is District area last Friday night at 7 about five miles (to Mohawk p.m. The station plans to offer Mall). Toward the west there itself as an alternative in music have been no reports; it should be programming, .presenting a possible to reach Amsterdam, progressive-rock format. In down the valley. general this would mean Due to the nature of the license . broadcasting: I) news releases; 2) {class D-educational) WRUC music by lesser-known artists; 3) cannot solicit paid advertising; lesser-known music by well-' however, we do provide, fornon- known artists. · profit orga ni za t ions, a WRUC also provides one of Community Calendar of planned the- most comprehensive series of ·events. Groups that wish to have newscasts·available in this area on an event publicized should 'bring radio. Every day at 3:30,5:30 and the message to WRUC on the 10:45 p.m_, the WRUC news second floor of Carnegie Hall. team, headed by Jim McParland, Any comments or criticisms deliver a clear, concise fifteen- would· be appreciated by the minute broadcast, station. Ellalou Dimmock, soprano; Carol Randles, alto; Edward Dixon, tenor; Charles Sch·inkel, countertenor. The Tully Hall performance was superior to the other two. The soloists, all performers of high calibre, gave very good readings. The orchestra· also pta·yed well although its effectiveness was diminished by the trumpeters,' insistence on playing wrong notes throughout aU three performances. The high points of the . performance included \The Song of the Prophets,\ featuring the Union singers in very fine form; \The Lament of Gilboa\ was beautiful, as the alto, soprano and Wheaton chorus all sang excellently. The lengthy \Dance Before the Ark\ alternated between. moments of serenity and violence. The most powerful and beautiful of the twenty-seven pieces comprising King David was the last, ''The Death of David.\ The entrance of the angels (four Wheaton singers) was .alone worth the price of admission. ' The performance was appreciated by the fairly substantia~ audience, wh<:-, at the end of the concert, delivered a standing ovation, ~--------~---..---------~------------------------- ... ~ . I OUR BIGGEST A MOST EXCITING SEASON EVER ~ June 15 8:15pm Aug. 3 3:30 and 8:15 pm 1 1 1 PRESERVATION HAU JAZZ BAND (1) LIBERACE (1) 1 with ScottyPlummer I I ~:;~ 5 ~~~':; 111 and \Mr. Electric\ 1 1 with Wet Willie Aug. 4 8:15 pm I GLEN CAMPBELL I I · June 18 8:15 pm and Judd Strunk (1) 1 • •MARGOT FONTEYN I and THE·CHJCAGO BALLET (1) Aug. 6 8:15 pm I I Gala Opening I June 20 8:15 pm THE PHILADELPHIA ORCHESTRA I I JAZZ FESTIVAL (1) I inc, HERBIE MANN 1. 1 ·and JQE FARRELL I .• I ,June 21 8:15 pm A 10 815 J ,...., FESTIV:'\ (1) ug. : pm I I -.&. -. B. B. KING (1) · *inc. RAMSEY LEWIS with Bobby \Blue\ Bland I I I 1 Jun'e 22 8:15 pm Aug. 11 8:15 pm I 1 J~ FESTIVAL (1) MARY TRAVERS with inc. BENNY GOODMAN GLENN YARBOROUGH I ~ June 26 7 :0 0 pm AND THE LIMELITERS (1) I I ERIC CLAPTON (3)1 I Aug. 17 8:15 pm 1- June 29 7:00 pm 'CHUCK MANGIONE (1) I wi1h Guest Orchestra and Soloists 1· STEPHEN snLLS (31 I I 1 !~!~ G~~!:.~ ~~ic'!:GcJ(~~ pm 1 1 I and PETE SEEGER (3) . ~~~~ I I JulY 2 7:00pm •GLADYS KNIGHT AND THE PIPS (1) 1 I THE POINTeR stsTERs 1 . 1 with Special Guest Star Aug. 25 8:15 pm • JiMMY WALKER (3) Jerry Weintraub in association with I I SPAC presents 1 ·1 JulY 4 . 7:00pm •FRANK SINATRA I I BLOOD, SWEAT lc'TEARS . with DAVID CLAYTON THOMAS (3) Aug. 27 7:00pm I I and CHICK COREA BEACH BOYS (3) 1 I I 1 . JulY 5 7:00-pm Aug. 28 8:15 pm • I I BEE GEES (3) ·ROGER WIWAMS (1) I JulY 9 8:15pm Aug. 29 7:00pm ~ 1 GALA OPENING •rHE JEFFERSON STARSHIP (3) I N~YORK CITY BAWT Inc, Grace Slick, Papa John I Creach, and Paul Kantner I I July 13 7:00 pm I 1 KRIS KRistOFFilRSON Aug. 30 7:00pm I and RITA COOUDGE SHA NA NA (3) I with Special Guest Billy Swan (3) I I Aug. 31 7:00 pm l I July 20 '7:00 pni BLUE OYSTER CULT (3) 1 I JAMESTAVLOR(3) I, I with PHOEBE SNOW Sept. 1 7:00 pm DODB.E BROTHERS (3) I I JulY 27 8:15 pm . 1 I THE CARPENTERS (1) I with Skiles and Henderson ~ I July 28 7 :00pm *FIRST SARATOGA I I *HARRY CHAPIN (3) PERFORMANCES I I I I I I I 1. 1 · SARATOGA I I PE;:RFORMING BOX OFFICE II I ARTS' CENTER- (518}587-3330 . I 1_.,__.__ _ _._.,..,.. __________ ~----~·-l.._,...__ ____ _.l_ .;. .• ---------------.--- ... Page9 '·

'' ' you said it Editors, Concordiensis: I am writing as a member of the Film Committee and Student Body in response to the letter by Pete McKernan and. Pete Feaman in last week's Concordy. For those who didn't read it, the letter suggested that the Film Committee cancel its showing .of Pink Flamingos on May 27th because it · would be .. embarrassing\ to the community. I would first like to respond to their letter as a member of the Film Committee who has served on it since its inception last spring term. Since that time, we have averaged between 600 and 700 people per weekend and also initiated the successful Tuesday night film series. Our purpose as a committee has been to present the \community\ with the widest variety of films possible. Thi11 has ranged from slapstick (Take the Moq_ey and Run) to Stanley Kubrick (A Clockwork Orange, :won to the surreal (If) to musicals (Singin' in the Rain, Cabaret) to Ingmar Bergman (Cries and Whispers). In the past we have shown many different films of a wide variety aside from those mentioned above. Next year we have continued to book films of a wide range including The Sting, Animal Crackers, Chinatown, ErQmanuelle, and Blazing S~tddles. The point is that there is a demand for all sorts of films. You have pointed out that Pink Flamingos is a disgusting and gross movie and.that may be true. Yet, this ••exercise in poor taste\ has as much right to be included in the Film Committee's program as any musical, comedy, drama,. or porno film. The members of the committee generally feel that the campus community should be exposed to films of the widest range. People know what Pink Flamingos is, it would be a denial of the duties of the film committee not to show it, just as we would be derelict in our function if we never showed a musical. Colleges ··all over tlie country have shown Pink Flamingos to S.R.O. crowds without .. embarrassing the community.\ We try to appease all tastes and demands on the ftlm committee. Our only suggestion to the viewer who might see this controversial, gross and di!!gUsting film is the ancient caveat \Let the Buyer Beware.\ However I, as a member of the Film Committee and the committee as a whole will not act to censor one type of film and present another. I would now like to respond to your letter as a student. You say censorship is not the issue, yet \it is embarrassing and insulting for me to see this movie in any way connected with the community of Union College, of which I am a member.\ I, too, am a member of the community and like many others want to see just what the controversy is about this film. Should your standards of embarrassment be imposed upon me? I think not, for this is a violation of the freedom that the First Amendment stands for. No one has to see Pink Flamingos, yet don't deny others in your \community\ the right to choose. What is insulting to you may not be to another. It's all in the mind. I know people who feel that for instance certain things done in frats or dorms are embarrassing to the community, yet here .again these people should not impose their standards upon individuals in the frat or dorm. I only ask that you as a member of the community allow me- to choose for myself what is insulting. A college .community is the ideal place to exercise freedom and .present a wide open forum; it is embarrassing for an institution like Union to impose \community standards\ of taste on any individual. Leave community censorship to the backwood towns in the Mississippi Delta, keep it away from Union. I, as a student, would lik,e the choice of seeing this film. Matt Brief '77 mareh boston Continued from Page 2 providing one bus for the trip. As reported in the May 8th Schenectady Gazette, tpis bus and others: will be leaving ft:om Hickok ·House at 6:30 ;:tm May I 7th and will return that evening. As things now stand, May 17th·- will be a big event for Union College. We would like to see the widest possible participation from Union College and Schenectady. We are asking that every one who supports the goals of the march to try to attend, and if that is not possible, to make. a donation so that others can attend. The price of a seat is $8.50, payable to NAACP. May 17th offers all an opportunity to put our anti-racist beliefs into action. This may be the largest civil rights demonstration since the 1963 March on Washington. Its success or failure will affect not only the struggle in Boston but race relations on the Union College campus as well. Please contact Dan McNett for more information. Dan MeNett Marcia Dickey William Daniels Thomas J. Watts, Jr. flaDiingos Continued from Page :Z of its rating and content, an immensely popular Cult film which has been shown on the most prestigious campuses across the country. 3) Pink Flamingos is advertised as .. an exercise in poor taste\ and it will be pdbliciZed as such on this campus as well. 4) As it has always been and always will be, each individual has the choice to attend or refrain from attending any of our films. 5) The Film Committee always has and always wi11 accept all suggestions,. cnttc1sms, and feedback in gener.tl concerning anything we are doing. However, our schedule is published the first week of each term. Therefore, please do not wait until the sixth week of the term if you have a valid complaint which merits our attention. Additionally, if you have such a complaint, it is certainly not necessary to deliver it to us via Coneordiensis; that only serves to create an issue out of that which very possibly is not one. 6) In light of . the letter published here last week, the Film Committee voted last week six-to- two in favor of showing Pink Fla1ningos as scheduled. Sincerely, Liz Pava, chairman of the Film Committee Birth . Control· ex·elusion Continued from Page 2 were finally allowed :to join in the alma mater, Mr. Wilson did not conduct the joint group. Again,· why not? This exclusion was not missed by the audience ~ parents and students alike began whispering; wondering why the women were being kept quiet and then ignored. When two such groups join together they should sing the song together - the medley includes the alma mater, it is not a separate selection. Obviously, lack of talent on the part of either group is not the reason - the alma mater was only enhanced by the joining of male and· \female voices. I Wonder, oh co-ed Union, what the reason could be .... Marjorie Kohn Convocation: •'Tile State of the College,\ will be the tupic of Dr. T.N. Bonner on Thursday, May 22, at 10:30 a.m. in Memorial Chapel. Continu~d from Paee 4 prenatal care, adoption, and abortion, and referrals would be made. if a VD test were positive a patient would be referred to the free clinic at City Hall, open Monday and Thursday from 5:30 to 7:30. I discovered Planned Parenthood to 'have a very friendly atmosphere where anyone who 11eeds guidance is welcome. My-last stop was the Jay Street Center, 160 Jay Street. The Jay Street Center open~ Wednesday, October 16., · 1974 and is spon·so.red by Planfi:ed Parenthood. There I spoke with Mr.- Emerson Rugh, the direptor, and learned that the Center deals with human sexuality and relationships. on ait emotional basis. They offer no medical facilities as Planned Parenthood does. . Free information ~;tnd counseliQg are .offered and anyone is welcome wlio just needs a friendly face to talk to. They are open Monday through Friday, from 10:00 a.m. to 6:00p.m., also Tuesday and Thursday nights until 10:00 and Saturday 10:00 a.m. until 4:00 p.m. Many people think that centers of this .type ate very impersonalized and don't really have the. time to discuss problems in detail. This is not true of the Jay Street Center. If you want to talk for hours there is someone at the Jay Street Center BLITHER Ani club or organization that would like to be represented during Orientation '75, should contact Ronni Zankel, cf o Orientation Committee, Student Activities Office, by Monday, May l9th. * * * * Work done by Daniel Casper, Sarah Mink, and Todd Cavalier will be shown in' the Union Gallery 1 Schaffer Library, ftom May 13-May 19. Gallery hours ate 2-5 p.m. daily. The show consists of drawings, sculpture, silk screen, and more. ·, * * * * A scale model of Union's new Achilles Rink is on display in the Library for the next week. The model is on the main floor, to the left. * * * * Union College Hillel and Union College Christian Fellowship are co-sponsoring a square dance, t() be held this Saturday, May 17, beginning at 8:30 p.m. Professor Scaife, of Union's Chemist~y Department, will be the caller for the dance. A<fmission for the square dance is free, and refreshments· will be served. The dance will take place in Old Chapel, or if the weather permits, outside in Library Plaza. The Union Community and the public are cordially invited. \' • .... * Starting Monday: Cabaret room will be open from 9:30- 11 :00 a.m. for coffee, doughnuts, and home•baked muffins. Come and have·a cup of coffee between classes! '* * * * Israeli dancing will ~ held every Tuesday night at 8:30 p.m. in Art~ 102. Anyone interested, whether beginner or advanced, is welcome. Please come! . '* * * * Jackson's Garden Bash - All students and faculty invited. Friday, May 16, 4:00-6:00 p,m. Free beer, wine, and cheese. ... * * * All clubs and organizations that are interested in having a room in the College Center next year (including groups that are presently there) must notify Craig Carlson by Friday, May 30. · * * * * The ·first session of the Biology Department's Student Research Seminar!l will be presented Thursday, May 1'5 at 8:00 p.m. in room 207, Bailey Hall AU students an<J fa~ulty are welcome to attend. * * '* * The Biology Department's Film Seminar will present two free color films: ••Army Ants: A Study in Social Behavior\ and \The Grizzly Bear - A Case Study in Field Research,\ Tuesday, May 20 at 7:30 p.m. in the Science Center, Room· N-210. who will care about you and listen. Now, what is l).nion College planning? No .one is quite sure. There have been numewus complaints regit~tered about the lack of time, communication, and trust ·with our gynecologist. The infirmary is currently being reorganized bl!t as yet no changes concerning birth control policy and/ or the gynecological setup have ·been planned. Internal Energy The Curricular Affairs Committee has approved a two- term Comp. Ed project course on Energy, Transportation, and Envimnmental - issues, to be offered during the fall and winter of 197'5-76. Students will embark on an in-4epth study .of the social, ·economic, technological, and/ or political aspt:cts of these issues through an internship with one of the following agencies: New York State Department of Trans• portation. Capital District Regional Planning Commission, Capital District Transit Authority, or the N.Y. Department of Environmental · Conservation. Limited . Interns Only ten positions for .internship are available, and all interested students are encouraged to contact the pregram's director, Professor Ram K. Mittal (6288) regarding requirements of the program. The students will work closely with a project supervisor, a professional . person associated with the state · agency. The internships will be offered on a voluntary basis. Criteria for grading Will be monthly progress reports from the project supervisors, plus final oral and · written reports. New Trend In Education . Prpfessor Mittal pointed out . that other Capital District schools such as Russell Sage, RPl, and Siena are now offeri)1g internships with state agencies, and states, \J believe the fQture of Union · College lies in having closer ties .with state and local agencies.\ Professor Mittal notes further, · ••there i~ the potential of j~b offers from these agencies.\ Professor ,MittaJ's program reflects the increasing trend · toward the work-study type of program, which gives liberal ·arts students practical work experience. - .. _ ~·~ .. , . .. F.OR UQOOR . t A.ND Jfi'INE t r T~ ~ . ~, 4 4~ JcJce r ~I ~ j i - Lipstein's ~t 4 t ~ .. .C. State Street ~t 4 FR.,_ lUI 't - - - - ......... - ~ ~ ~ - Newest Lunch LUIGI'S 715 ALBANY ST. n. .... ... ... die ..... Men tiiUl se,_. we~Ni'ft 'Ji'Jnt. · Prllt IHit 4op .. die ....... ,__ .... All'o ......... ' .,.... d'rr en ...,._,. We .... .,.. 7 .. ,.. ... - WMII:elld .... Vlllt Newell ...... GGatl ............. .STAURAtrr ·.··~ .. ltaliCI1· American· Fooil • \ll251ARREI I. ST. SO&ECTADY Dl6e97.U.

CONCORDIENSIS, Wednesday, May 14, 1975 Page 11 ----sportS Women's Softball, 3-3 In an action packed week of softball the Dutchwomen won two of three to even their record at 3-3. Union travelled to RPI last -Tuesday and was handed its third consecutive loss of the season. The women in Gamet managed ta pound oqt 12 hits to the Troy team's II, and stole 15 bases - 3 times R,PI's total. Shortstop Ronnie Zankel nearly lost her head - sliding safely inta third during the first inning, and was Everyone on the Union team hit at least once and scored at least twice, and utility infielder Sue Finkelstein saw action at second while Jill Korostoff relieved in the outfield. Meeting RPI for the third time on Parents Weekend, Union won easily 30-5 in a shortened 5 inning game. Union had 28 hits against RPJ's 6. but a total of 9 horne runs was the key factor in the r Dutchwomen•s victory. Debbi Slotoroff, Gwen Young, Anderson (2), Francis (2) and Zankel (3) all ~ound holes in the ·.outfield. On the season, Francis and Zankel each have S homers, with one game to see who takes the title of homerun queen. Korostoff added a double in the second for . Union. Anderson again anchored down the mound, striking out 3 and walking 3. '\ forced to leave the game due to a temporary memory loss. Elaine Baldwin came through with a triple. for the lasers, half of whom needed windshield wipers for their glasses when a moderate rain came late in the ganie. Bowling Clvb Ends The Dutchwomen clubbed 35 hits and toQk away 14 bases on the way to an overwhelming 47-16 victory over Schenectady County Community College {Yes, the game was softball, not football.) The visitors were held to 10 hits and 3-stolen bases in the 2~ hour game! Perky Francis, Ronnie Zankel. and Pam Anderson had home runs for Union, while Gina Pugliese, Cathy Reals and again, Francis and Anderson legged two baggers. The combined pitching staff of starter Anderson, Faith Cail. and Zankel walked 9 but unable fan by ZOOM The team of Bob Lurie, Bill Peck and Dennis Brown captured the team title in the Dutchm.an Classic Bowling League championship last Tuesday night at the Boulevard Bowl. They bested the team of Kim Clark, Larry Vosh and Ted Geloso in a close match. The winners, who _ hadn't lost a match all year (though they were tied once by the Clark team) found themselves in the hole early as Clark made a 6-7-10 split and Vosh (foubled in the tenth frame to pull out a 16 pin win. The second game was closer, with Peck doubling in the tenth frame to eek out an 8 pin win for the victors. The winners assumed command late in third gatne and won by 29 pins, thus winning the total pinfall by 21 pins. enough for victory. Individually, Len Gelman had the top average 'for the year, hitting about 172 a game. Bob Lurie captured high single game with a 239 and Bill Peck had the high triple of the year, a 625. The club .. banquet\ and presentation of trophies will be soon, so all members look for a message any day now. Juni;r middieJim ,Collins once again exhibits his outstanding, season-lorig defensive play ·''\ .·; during Middlebury game last Saturday. 'WHO ARE THE FASTEST DRINKERS FIND OUT AT THE HALF-A-TABLE CONTJ:ST FRIDAV, MAY 16 AT 2 P.M. AT THE SKELLAR Teams of 5 people will .be given 3 castlS of beer to drink - the first team to fini~h wins 2 eases of Molson's Golden Ale. Entry fee of $5.00 per person to Peter Foy by 8 P.M., ThursdaJ night. Only room for 6 (six) teams! \'\ The Women's Lacrosse Team took their first victory in their short history, a 5-4 victory over Williams. Cricket Anyone? SPECIAL TO CONCORDIENSIS Cricket, England's counterpart to our baseball. is coming to Union in the. form of an exhibition on May 18. Cricket is an interesting game and, even though played much slower than baseball. also a very exciting game. The object is to score runs, as many as possible. The game consists of two innings, and in these two innings both teams get a chance to be .. up\. Each half- inning lasts until all of the eleven people on the team have been up once. team can record a \put-out\ is by doing one of the following: I) the bowler (pitcher) can throw the ball by the batsman and hit his wicket 2) a fielder can catch a fly ball 3) if the batsman hits his wicket while hitting the ball a fielder can \run him out\ by hitting the batsman's wicket with the ball while the batsman is off of his wicket (not standing m the ''crease\) When a bowler \retires\ a batsman. it is called \taking a wicket\. Obviously the aim of the One interesting point is that the defense team (the team in the cricket field is extremely large field) is to keep the batsman from (measuring usually 250 feet in scoring runs. Th~ batsman can diameter) and also that the score runs by hitting the ball and _\pitch\ (where the wickets are then running to the other wicket located) is located in the center of that is 22 yards away (see figure). the field. This makes it extremely An interesting note is that there difficult for the defensive team are two batsmen up at any one since it must play behind and to time, and they both must run if the sides. as well as in front of the one of them hits the ball. Also, hatsman. after every 6 \fair balls\ by one of Nnw that you know a little the batsmen. the other starts to about the game we hope you will hit. and this continues until one come and sec the cricket of them is \put-out\. exhibition given by Carlos Hill The wa:y that the defensive and Binghamten Bowlers. CAN YOU BEAT THE COMPETITION? Ronnie Zankel attacks RPI in Saturday's softball victory. photo by Arthur Miller

Page 12 CONCORDIENSJS, Wednesday, May_ 14, 1975 . Laxmen Split by SLEEPER The Union lacrosse team split their twl? games this week. They dropped an 8-7 decision to St. Lawrence and then came back with a 10-5 Parents Weekend victory over Hamillon to bring t-he season record to 4-5. Baseball Skins Panthers by ·CHARLES FLANAGAN lhe. Garnet nine wcm two and lost one last week, trauncing Albany Slate and edging Middlebury while losing a heartbreaker to ''Holly\ Wood and Company over at Siena. · Against St. Lawrence the laxmen fell behind 4.;() in the first quarter, and then came up one goal short in their effort to catch up. Donny Ward led Union scorers with two goals while five other~ netted one apiece. Middie Jim Collins continued to play fine defense and also picked up his first goal of the season. Union Lacrosse in Rarents Weekend Action against Hamilton Against Albany State Joe Urschel twirled a two-bitter while striking out five. After two scratch run~ the Great Danes seemed baffled by Urschel's assortment of pitches as Joe pitched shutout ball for the final seven innings of the game. · On Satutday, under clear skies and urged on by the largest crowd of the season, the Garnet came out looking good and took a 6-0 lead by the end of the first quarter. John Thompson opened the scoring and then on Union's first man up opportunity of the game, with Coach Allison 'exhorting\move it .. move it .. ,\ the offense did just that. They sent the ball twice around the perimeter of the Hamilton defense - Grossman-J.T.-Easton-Davis- Ward - then Bobby picked out Easton cutting through and Richie fired a high hard one that the goalie never saw. J.T. scored three more times in the opening stanza - twice· coming around from behind and dropping a .soft one on the ,ground into the near corner of the cage. Grossman left the game in the second quarter with a shoulder injury, but not before scoring two goals and handing out 2 assists. One goal came on a beautiful quickstick while moving across the front of the crease. Bobby should return for the game this Wednesday. The freshmen defense anchored by Kenny Beck played a:notjler excellent game, allowing only two goals while playing at full strength. Beck continues to display a ,superb stick to go along with his hard hitting style .of defense. AI Ritchie looked strong in the cage and also on clears, where the Gamet were effective in getting the ball to the attack. The middies played a more aggressive Women's Lax Ends Victorious This year marked a first for women's athletics. Quite a bit was added to the sports program for women; among these additions was lacrosse. Although the season was short and the record unimpressive (l-2), the sport was educational and entertaining for both the team and the spectators. Our first game, a home contest against Russell Sage (a· 7-2-loss) was, for most of the team, the first exposure to a full field team effort. From the start, Sage took the lead. Yet, at half time, a win wasn't inconceivable due to the outstanding performance of our totally inexperienced defense - Cindy Pearce, Kipp Kelley, Toni Gahn, Kim Waddell, Jodi Miller, Lynn Sutton and Mindy Schoenfeld as well as junior goalie Louise Dunn. With Stenie Plater's goal scored late in the first half, Union came back quickly during the second period with a score by freshman Eileen Thomas. Unfortunately, this was to be the last Union goal of the afternoon as other offensive players Julie Rothenstein, Beth Herrick and Lyn Yelton were unable to penetrate Sage's defense. With a bit of experience under our belt, the team headed off to Smith on May 6th only to face a crushing defeat. Fortunately the score {21-3) was no indication of Union's play. The team had clearly improved and some good team playing was seen. Meg Winsor was back in uniform suffering only slightly from a strained muscle which prevented her from playing in the first game. Lee Russell had also joined the team by this point. Both .helped ' tremendously due to their high school experience. Still, the truly outstanding performance of the· day was done by Captain Lyn Yelton who scored the Union hat- trick, the first on a beautiful assist from Ruth Krassenstein. Bouncing back from a demoralizing defeat, Union played an outstanding final game against Williams, defeating them 5-4. With Lee Russell moved from defense to offense, she was able to use her superior stick handling to score two goals. Some fine hustling was dane by Eileen Thomas who also managed to put in two .goals - one in the .fast 30 seconds of the game! Center Lyn Yelton scored the other. This final game clearly showed the ever improving stick handling and team play. Without a doubt, this season was a time of fun and learning (and hard work-due to coaches Tad Knight and Suzanna Miller). Next year should prove to be murc successful ~ record wise. Only iv.o seniors, Kipp and Lyn will be leaving the team and already many under\Classmen have expressed their desire to play. . VOLLEYBALL - All closet volleyball players and anybody else interested in playing Mens' .Intercollegiate Volleyball next year please try to attend a meeting at Strauss Lounge at 9:00 p.m. If you cannot attend this meeting, please contact Kevin at 370-6433 or Davidson 258; When asked about the possible Astro·Turfing of Daley Fi~ld, ace Ron Westbrook, senior co-capt., once again sparks a Union rally. · second baseman John ''Rude- . man\ Busterud said, \If a: hor§e can't eat U, I'm not gonna play on it.\ game than the Ot:J.es they have been playing recently. They won 72% of the faceoffs and picked up 70% of the groundbaHs. According to Allison, \the team is coming along and making fewer mistakes\. ' The lax team is on the road this week. They travel to Wesleyan and Ce>lgate before returning home to face Dartmouth next Wednesday in .the final game of the season. Cricket is coming to Union, see article on page 11. ~But aga,inst Siena, the Dutchman's winning streak was. halted at four. Union f~ll victim to its own mental. lapses which resulted in a see-.saw battle with ·siena coming out on top 13-l2. Ronny Westbrook, Randy Ruschack and Dan DeGregory led the Union offensive banging . out three hits apiece while John Busterud and Gary Borgese each had two hits with Busterud responsible for four RBh The Union offensive produ~ed a total of fifte!!n hits in ~!Coring tlleir 12 runs. On Parent's weekend, Union edged powerful Middlebury team_ 6..:5 on Gary \tomahawk\ Bor.gese Clutch RBI single that scored Ronny Westbrook from second with the winning run in the ninth inning. Joe Urschel again adorned the mound, scattering eight hits while striking out six and picking ~p · im impressive win. Ro11ny Westbrook led the Garnet on defense, making put-outs from nearly everywhere on the left side e>f the infield. Ronny also led the team offensively, collecting a triple, double and single. Gaw aorgese also had three hits while John Busterud collected two for the 6-6 Dutchmen·. Yesterday's game with Williams was unfortunately rained out. The Gar~et hope to continue their winning ways, on the road, against Albany State tomorrow and RPI on Friday, as the game with the engineers closes the '75 season. Garnet baseball co .. capt. Joe Urschel in winning tifjort vs. Middlebury. .... • \\ it Only t people 016 f!L!I beeli sl Way to Vo s .] Bu car sp~ Lei de! 'Ex .. Pn eVI po of chi thl to ill! po im At be in I of 0\' an wl p( h~ Ne Ye ho est COl he1 un C'c thi ch 19 co 16 he ah ~~ co tit 19 he w L1 cc cc Ia M \ Jf

VoL3,No~ . ......... , .. ..,ji; .... Biiick Student Alliance's , . Wednesday, May 14, 1975 Editor's Prerogative A photograph, the face of an old Black woman with silvery hair and rheumy eyes, hangs on my livingroom wall. Nameless, she sits in dignity in· her frayed, but clean print dress. If's simply a reminder of times gone by, hopes passed on, and dreams that vanished in the day. ''In her body is the womb of all civilization.\ When I read ·~his beautiful line of prose, I thought about that lady whose picture hangs in my livingtoom. I also thought about the thousands of Black Women that this country has tried to destroy; the Black women we rarely see in films or read about in books. The women that white America would have us think never existed; the women who must never fade from our memories. America's \lowdown shiftless niggers,\ who worked hard as h.ell every day. Women whose names weren't Sojourner Truth or Caretta Scott King. It seems that in our rush to .t'get back to Black,\ these women . have been literally swept under the rug. It was extremely exciting to be descendants of African queens and princesses. There was a kind of psychological lift in reading the poetry of Phyliss Wheatley. But what about those women who just made it through? The women who are more real, the ones you see every day - our mothers, grandmothers, aunts, and sisters. The women who could still find the strength to love a man and cherish a child. Black women, Colored women, Negro women, who worked from sun-up to sun-down to feed their families; who weren't dope addicts or prostitutes. The women who in freedom, took what has now been · labeled slave names and gave them significance and dignity. This past Mother's Day I celebrated Mrs. Chatman, Collins, Cooke,. Horns, Harris, Varner, and Becton; the Smiths and Joneses who mothered and loved and protected us these past 100 years. The women who are irreplaceable. The women who are defmitely BLACK WOMEN. Marilyn V. Becton NSSFNS ''Ringg!\ ''Hello\ .. It's 7 o'clock Mr. Underwood.\ And another conference day begins. This particular COJ?.ference we are talking about is NSSFNS (National Scholarship Service Fund for Negro Students). This organization's main purpose is to make minority students. aware of the colleges in this country; and the academic, as well as social, offerings of each. . The conference set-up is different than most that you and I have been to. There are no workshops,. presentations, or d ~ p I a ys . The c.o II e g e , representative simply goes to a sP-ecified table (usually located in the hotel) and sets up their college brochures. After the table is prepared, there is time for coffee, and a little chatter about the possible turnout soon to come. Around 9:00, busloads of students begin emptying into the hotel. in the beginning, students will go to co1leges where they have relative~ or friends in attendance; then on to . the colleges that their counselors recommended. Many people argue whether or not the conference is worth it. 1 would definitely say that it is. NSSFNS can simply be a day off .for admissions people and students, m:. it can be an opportunity for (I) the students to see how many schools ~.!in supply them with the taols necessary to \make it.\ (2) and the admissions people an opportunity to meet qualified students and give them an accurate description of their college. The catalogue cards that students fill out are important because they enable the admissions person tQ contact both the student and his school in the future. NSSFNS also supplies a list of students to schools to be contacted, but the only shortcoming in this procedure is that the list is made available after they have made their admis- sion decisions. The conference has its flaws, but ·I do not think tha.t anyone can question the necessity of such an organization to · minority students in helping them seek a . higher education. I Blacks Protest Cutbacks In response to the planned picket'ing the building in support budget cutbacks. Black students of the students inside. The seizure at Bro-wn University, located in of the building was Yery peaceful, Providence, Rhode Island, took as university employees filed out control of the school's of the University Hall, as the administration building last protesters moved in. The Thursday. According to a Third university's officials made no World spokesman, the action was effort to call police, although taken due to the procrastinative campus police were on the scene. techniques employed by the Student demands included University's officials in dealing amnesty for all involved in the with the Black students. building seizure, the continuation The takeover began when of fmancial assistance at present approximately forty Black levels for all minority students, students entered University HaU, and an increase in funds for the the school's administration recruitment of Blacks. (the source building. After a few hours had for ~his st,ory was ~~ article in the elapsed, more than four-hundred Apnl 25th edttion of the students. Black and white were · Schenectady Gazette) Dey Landl~ord!!! HEY LANDLORD!!! When the housing office here at Union announced its plan to raise the rents on all the rooms, this came as a great shock to the campus population. However, when the housing office announced what they were going to do with that money the vast majority of the campus didn't\' mind the increase. However, there was one BIG exception: the residents of Hickok. The residents of Hickok will be paying an increase of $98.00 for singles and $86.00 for doubles. So what are we complaining about'? Well it is this. With this almost $100.00 increase per room there is not going to be one single house improvement or addition being made in Hickok. If we want an addition ·or improvement which will cost some mo'ney done to H ick.ok, we have to go to the tax .committee · and request that money be .diverted trom the HS/\ budget in order to get what we want. (And all residents of Hickok aren't BSA members.) As members of Hickok, we feel that this is completely unfair. How would you like it Debbie if you were forced to dish out money for an increase in rent and if you asked your landlord for something, he told YO UNO. You wouldn't like it and neither do we. The residents of Hickok New Director At Upward Bound- . by SADAMA N. HOMS The new sister who has recently been chosen as the new director of Upward Bound is Lynn Gilmore. Lynn was born in Buffalo and grew up there. She began her education at Emmerson College and after two years transferred to Albany State to complete her BA in Afro- American Studies, her minor being Speech Pathology and Audiology. She also received her M A from Albany State which was in Developmental Reading Education. She hopes to finish her Doctorate within the next two years which will be in Education with an administrative specialty. Her hobbies include reading, swimming, boating, tennis, horseback riding, fishing and camping. When asked who she most admired she replied, \ ... anybody who does well in their area of interest, or Who is particularly creative.\ \The ways I would achieve these things is by: first, I would like to see this program be successful in a way that can be measured both academically and motivationally. I would like te service as many students as I can and I'd like to institute some things so that we can evaluate how s~tccessful we were. I'd also like to spend some time having the staff involved with the program grow and generally benefit from the program in more than just a monetary way. Having them benefit in their personal development is another goal of this program. Secondly, I'm also working with the high schools and community agencies, as well as groups and individuals in the community. Because I'm looking for students with potential who might not have reached it yet, I just cannot work with the high schools alone because the high schools themselves are not helping the students reach this potential at this point. The traditional school system does not help everybody.\ In terms of Upward .Bound and Union College, Ms. Gilmore would definitely like to see a relationship develop. \I think one of the reasons they do use the colleges as the host agency for this type of prograril is that there are just a wealth of things that the college and its environment can provide the program, and the program can provide the college a wealth of cultural experiences and community involvement that the college needs as badly as the students need the college. I the cultural enrichment that the students provide.\ Perspective asked Ms. Gilmore about the summer Upward Bound program in terms of academic and social curriculums. \So far the summer program is planned around an academic curriculum of Reading, Math, English and Science. All four courses are not high school courses nor are they strictly college courses b1,1t are p.reparatory in nature. ·The Reading is going to foster creative thinking and increasing comprehension skills. The English will be primarily designed to increase and enhance writing skills - communications skills. Each student will take these four courses as well as an elective of their own choosing which could include photography, art, martial arts, and these types of things. Each will also take a recreational component which may include tennis. swimming, basketball and other recreational pursuits.\ Lynn was asked whether or not she would like to see more Union College students apply for counselling positions for the summer program. \Certainly. There are six positions open. Each counselor will have ten students to get to know as well as their own brothers and sisters. I expect them to be the advocate for that student. I expect them to form a relationship that makes that student very comfortable with that person. He or she should be a person that the student can go to if they feel they have a grievance in any area. The Lynn would like to se~ Upward Bound achieve certain goals. She says. -\1 would like to see this pn~gram achieve the goals for which it was designed. Which is to service poor people who might not think of higher edtic~Ation as being possible for them or might not have the opportunity -of going on but have the potential. rd like to find these students and give them the type of academic skills and the kinds of motivation and support that are necessary to have them achieve whatever they choose to be and let them know they have these .options. In helping them exercise these options they may be able to teach their fullest potential and service liopefully hundreds of others in whatever it is they become and have the whole situation mushroom.\ would like to see an inte..action that would have the program utilize the facilities · and the abilities of Union College, which are considerable. And have Union College utilize the resoun::es and counselor•s day will be primarily spent on building group relationshipS; tutoring and doing individual counselling. Also, people who apply for the (\ontinued on Pa~ D ,! '!

PageB PERSPECTIVE, Wednesday, May 14, 1975 I . I'm Sorry Yknoh!s -Fables WHO WEARE Editor ......... u .. ~•·· .................... Matilyn Vannessa Becton Cultural Editor ................. _ ................ ,. ... Sadama N .. Horns Recently, two members of the sex: he's checlcing out p th~ sJCin Women's Caucus asked me if it color. were at all possible for them to In my opmton the Black use a page_ of Perspec!ive for their women of America have no need Poetry Department ........... Aseba B. Ha~is and Tamara own purposes. At the time of [or women's rights groups, Ph t h D P tm nt Willl 'am A C·ollms' their req.uest, I w.as somewha. t beca.use we've never received o ograp .Y. e ar. e ......... ~...... . __ .___ ':.... - · Mllto.- Smith taken aback, but I have since -discrimination due to our sex. G I W · G 'I V Ch t Gl - · - V J regained my composure, and can Why we have always had equal enera rlters ......... a• · -. a man, · or1a · • ones, - . b . . . h Bl k Thomas Watts, Brian Smart, Lawrence E. Cooke, • now officially reply~ No. . . JO opportuDI~Ies wtt . our ac Now before you start With the brothers. Dunng the slavery era, Catherine Yvonne Smith, Ana Logy, & Sisterly Love , ' name-calling and the bruised B~ack women w~rked side by side Special Thanks to .... Dan McNett, DoiUJell Underwood, feelings caucus members, I must With Black men In the cotton and . Smud Barro, Maxine Skugg, Betty Sfid. try to make you tmderstand my tobacco fields. And to top that; - - and Ferdinand.-· · position on the women's Fights we even received the same pa,y, ·~~~====:=::=:;::::=:=::;:::;;::=::::=a~:;:!=;::;::;~~) movements. At this point in time, not a damn thing. . -- ·-·supportthtMa~~h • --· · :=:t~~!~:-:;.:~~}:~ ~:~:~;ul:tl~=~;:f:~ On May 17th, student, However, Judge Garrity bas the . \equal pay conc 7 ~;~t.\ The h.onest wtth yoursel~es, you wtll political, and social forces Will issued stil~ further .plans for the Women's Caucus ofUnton has no fmd that the fault 1s your own. join together to protest the racist desegregatiOn of the Boston real purpose. So what if you get a There ~s an. old ~ayi,?g that go~s situation of the south Boston schools. This plan calls for the few more women faculty members .somethmg hke thts, a man can t schools. additional busin~ ·Of 21,000 on campus, what is that going to. do no more than a woman le~s The protest which has been students. This is almost 3,000 prove? So what if the women at him.\ If you let a man put hts named the National Freedom more than the or,iginal program Union are given a few more foot on your neck, he'll definitely March was ,calJed by Thomas called for. This plan will also pennies to develop their athletic keep it there, unless you take it Atkins, president of the Boston divide Boston into eight school programs? Trying to cha11ge fhe off, And in the case of white National Association for the districts. ideas of people at Union College women, not only does the White, Advancement of Colored People Reactions to the added .plan are can · be related to attempting to man have hi~ foot on your neck, (N.A.A.C.P.). End.orsers of the varied. Robert Dentler •. Dean. of squeeze blood from a turnip, and but also up your .... . _ march includ~ Reverend Ralph the Boston Umverstty a mere increase in numbers and Feeling the way I do about Abernathy, president of the Educational School, and also one figures doesn't even crack the ice. these types of organizations there Southern Christian Leadership of the chief architects of the new But the women at Union feel that is no Way possible that 1 could Conference, Representative project, feels that this will once they are being oppressed. Girls, allow Perspe~tive to be used to Ronald Oellums (Calif.), Basil and for all end the segregated you can't even begin to e(l,Vision express ideas which I feel, and Patterson vice-chairman of the system in the Boston schools. On what the-term oppression means, members of the Pers.,ective staff National 'oemocratic Committee, the other hand Kevin White, and you never will, because you feel have no real merit, t~wa~s women's activist Gloria Steinem, mayor of the unsettled city, said are white. When a white man the advancement of rt:unonty and many more noteworthy that this plan will only increase looks at me, he doesn't notice my students a.t V nion College. people. the hostil~ty and tur~oil already The troubled situation of the present lil the city. School Boston schools came about when Committee members also Judge W. Arthur Garrity Jr. (of condemned the p~an. . that city's District Court) acting The Black Student Alliance of on a suit filed by the N.A.A.C.P., Union Colkge and the ruled that the Boston School N.A.A.C.P. of Schenectady are Committee had intentionally sponsoring two buses to the created and maintained a National Freedom March in segregated school system. Judge B<;>ston. The buses will leave from Garrity immediately ordered a H1ckok House at 6:30 a.m. busing program into effect. This ~aturday, .May 1 ?th. All those desegregation program had its m~ere~ted .m puttmg an en~ to most startling effect in the. th1~ s1tuat10il should make It a neighborhoods of South Boston pomt to be there. and Hyde Park. -- Question Anyone? On April 16th, when the first spring issue of Perspective came out, I heard a fellow white student say, \Why must they have their own paper?\ Unfortunately, when -I heard this remark I was occupied at the time, and could not respond. Just in case that particular individual is reading this article, I say to him, .. Yes I heard you.\ You see brothers and sisters, this person has never asked me my opinion on this topic. This person sees me everyday, and knows me well enough to ask. No, but rather than ask a Black student why, he'd rather let his prejudices fester inside. This pitiful situation brings to mind a question. that being, how many people on this campus are wondering the same thing?\ To those of you who do wonder, I say to you, sit down and think about it. I would think that the reasons would be so obvious, that the intelligent ones at Union can figure it out. I wouldn't dare insult your intelligence by providing you with an answer. (because \bright\ people enjoy challenges) Many articles in Perspective deal indirectly with the communications gap between Blacks and whites at Union. In .a recent Perspective article, a IUack student expressed his wiJiingness to communicate with his white counterparts, but his plea has · been totally disregarded by fhe white populus. So I say to the intelligent whites at Union who are too stupid to ask questions, \Fester in your stupidity, because the ignorant will not inherit the earth.\ IF YOU WOULD LIKE TO SUBSCRIBE TO PERSPECTIVE fill out the blank below and mail· it to: Perspective, c/o Thomas Watts, 1005 Union St., Sch'dy, 12308. Subscriptions are FREE! name; ____ __,. ______ _ address, ________ _ ---:------L.i.p Magic Witness Muhammad Speaks, in its May 16, 1975 issue, has filed a report that the star witness in San Francisco's \Zebra killings\ trial has contradicted his own testimony. The 29-year-old witness, Anthony C. Harris, claimed to have been an initiate into the Death Angels, the group allegedly responsible for the murders committed last spring. Within the group, he said he was \indoctrinated to hate white people.\ He reportedly said that he · decided to turn _ informer because he knew tltat \sooner or later the people I was involved with would kill me.\ Mr. Harris told police and the grand jury investigating the < ontinued on Page D Dear Sisterly Love_ Dear Sisterly Love, I am a freshman brother, and I am frustrat~d by the male/female ratio. It seems that all the women worth talking to are either taken or respond to me as if I was a Lovable Baby Brother. I feel like I am grinding to a slow halt. My wheels need to be oiled and my tank needs to be refilled. Give me some advice, before I end up in a junk yard. Signed, Rusting at U. College Dear Rusting, Every time 1 go to a party, I My next door neighbor has a either don't get asked to dance or particularly acute sense of my first dance is the last. Could i! hearing, and keeps late hours. be that the Funky Chicken and This can be very uncool, when the Penguin are out of style, or I'm with an all night visitor. I what? I am medium height, and I tried playing music, yet have a tendency to blend in With sometimes the records run out in the walls in a dark room. Is it too inopportune moments. How can I late for me to learn the latest protect myself from neighbors dances? that gosSij>. Dear By-passed, Signed, By-passe3 When are you ever going to step out of the dark and come into the light? Child you had better wake up to f97S! The Funky Chicken and the Penguin is out, however, that is only part Oear Thin, Signed, Thin walls, Thin patience __ _ Have you tried insulating your walls with newspaper, or stuff'mg towels underneath your door? Perh~aps, you should just do your loving in a motel. Better yet, invite your nosey neighbor in to join you. By A-na L~gy As we know, in the Providence of Onion Collide th~re are many types of authOritarians who control aH processes in certain division in which they are trained. One of these authoritarians was Casper Shute. He was directly responsible fot all · passes, . admittances, and visas into the land of Onion Collide. H:is duty i;tlso consists of giving citizenship to all. -Casper being v~ry _yex;bose; spoke his mind about many subjects he knew very little about. Yet his duties were to 'know about all the imigrants. Previously he had expressed very· little knowledge about the m i t1 o r i tie s (negritoes), he had admitted into the land in arder to fulfill the quota. And displaying his very Vel'bose characteristic -while among the other authoritarians, he gQt on the subject of \Depmtes\. (How that dealt with negrito admission?? We'll never know!!! - Faise hope or truth???) In his- opinion no negrito who had been given citizenship had the talent or skills to participate in Shootball (one of the sections of \deportes\). A's you have been told many things happen in the Providence of Onion Collide and gossip and rumors by and amliJng administrators are two of those things. Moral: You must tell one just what he is getting himself intQ. Note - STOP!!!!! Stop, coming out of your mouth wrong. For some day you may find a shoe in it. D\lat BSA, On behalf of the Admissions Office and especially the minority recruitment effort. I would like to express my thanks to the BSA for sharing our weekend with the visiting pre-freshmen. Your cooperation throughout the weekeQd was extremely helpful and set a precedent to be followed by aU student organizations. Again, thanks for everything. Minority Admission Conutdttee Have you tried an STP_ oil treatment? If that doesn't work there is a small community m Schenectady, and a number of girl's colleges in the area. I'm sure you could find someone who could give you a tune-up. If not, maybe your model is out of date. Dear Sisterly Love, I am a sister with a problem. . of your problem •. You could try wearing bright colors, wearing perfume that will attract yout potential victim, or stay at homl'! and watch the late show, Th,ank you Mr. and Mrs. Stephen Brooks Lewis pose for Perspective cameras. Dear Sisterly Love,

PageB PERSPECTIVE, Wednesday, May 14, 1975 WHO WE ARE Editor ..................................... Marilyn Vannessa Becton Cultural Editor ................................... Sadama N. Horns I'm Sorry Yknoh~s Fables sex~ he's checking out' the skin color. By Ana Logy Poetry Department ........... Aseba B. Harris and Tamara Photography Department ................ Willia_D1 A._~ollins, ~ In my opmwn the Black women of America have no need for women's rights groups, because we've never received discrimination due to our sex. Why we have always had equal job opportunities with our Black brothers. During the slavery era, Black women worked side by side with Black men in the cotton and tobacco fields. And to top that, we even received the same pay, not a damn thing. As we know, in the Providence of Onion Collide there are many types of authoritarians who control all processes in certain division in which they are trained. Milton Smith General Writers ........ Gail V. Chatman, Gloria V. Jones, Thomas Watts, Brian Smart, Lawrence E. Cooke, Catherine Yvonne Smith, Ana Logy, & Sisterly Lave Special Thanks to .... Dan McNett, Donnell Underwood, . Smud Barro, Maxine Skugg, Betty Sfid. ... and Ferdinand. Question Anyone? On April 16th, when the first spring issue of Perspective came out, I heard a fellow white student say, \Why must they have their own paper?\ Unfortunately, when I heard this remark I was occupied at the time, and could not respond. Just in case that particular individual is reading this article, I say to him, \Yes I heard you.\ You see brothers and sisters, this person has never asked me my opinion on this topic. This person sees me everyday, and knows me well enough to ask. No, but rather than ask a Black student why, he'd rather let his prejudices fester inside. This pitiful situation brings to mind a question. That being, how many people on this campus are wondering the same thing?\ To those of you who do wonder, I say to you, sit down and think about it. I would think that the reasons would be so obvious, that the intelligent ones at Union can figure it out. I wouldn't dare insult your intelligence by providing you with an answer. (because \bright\ people enjoy challenges) Many articles in Perspective deal indirectly with the communications gap between Blacks and whites at Union. In a recent Perspective article, a Black student expressed his willingness to communicate with his white counterparts, but his plea has been totally d isregardcd hy the white populus. So I say to the intelligent whites at Union who are too stupid to ask questions, \Fester in your stupidity, because the ignorant will not mherit the earth.\ Whose fault is it women Iibbers for the why of your supposed!ly \oppressed\ state. If you are honest with yourselves, you wiH find that the fault is your own. There is an old saying that goes something like this, \a man can't do no more than a woman lets him.\ If you let a man put his foot on your neck, he'll definitely keep it there, unless you take it off. And in the case of white women, not only does the white, man have his foot on your neck, but also up your .... Feeling the way I do about these types of organizations there is no way possible that I could allow Perspective to be used to express ideas which I feel, and members of the Perspective staff feel have no real merit, towards the advancement of minority students at Union College. One of these authoritarians was Casper Shute. He was directly respons,ihle fo,r all passes, admittances, and visas into the land of Onion Collide. His duty also consists of giving citizenship to all. Casper being very verbose, spoke his mind about many subjects he knew very little about. Yet his duties were to know about ail the imigrants. Previously he had expressed very little k n o w I edge a b o u t t he m i Iii or it i e s (negritoes), he had admitted into the land in order to fulfill the quota. And displaying his very verbose characteristic while among the other authoritarians, he got on the subject of \Deportes\. (How that deatt with negrito admission?? We'll never know!!! - False hope or truth???) In his opinion no negrito who had been given citizenship had the talent or skills to participate in Shootball (one of the sections of \deportes\). As you have been told many things happen in the Providence of Onion Collide and gossip and rumors by and among administrators are two of those things. IF YOU WOULD LIKE TO SUBSCRIBE TO Moral: You must tell one just what he is getting himself into. Note - STOP!!!!! Stop, coming out of your mouth wrong. For some day you may find a shoe in it. PERSPECTIVE fill out the blank below and mail· it to: Perspective, c/o Thomas Watts, 1005 Union St., Sch'dy, 12308. Subscriptions are FREE! name ___________ _ address, _________ _ _______ _.jp, ____ _ . Magic Witness Muhammad Speaks, in its May I 6. 197 5 issue, has filed a report that the star witness in San Francisco's \Zebra killings\ trial has contradicted his own testimony. The 29-year-old witness, Anthony C. Harris, claimed to have been an initiate into the Death Angels, the group allegedly responsible for the murders committed last spring. Within the group, he said he was \indoctrinated to hate white people.\ He reportedly said that he decided to turn informer because he knew that \sooner or later the people I was involved with would kill me.\ Dear BSA, On behalf of the Admissions Office and especially the minority recruitment effort, I would like to express my thanks to the BSA for sharing our weekend with the visiting pre-freshmen. Your cooperation throughout the weekend was extremely helpful and set a precedent to be followed by all student organizations. Again. thanks for everything. Minority Admission Committee Dear Sisterly Love, Mr. Harris told police and the grand jury investigating the ( ontinued on Page D Dear Sisterly Love I am a freshman brother, and I am frustrated by the male/female ratio. It seems that all the women worth talking to are either taken or respond to me as if I was a Lovable Baby Brother. I feel like I am grinding to a slow halt. My wheels need to be oiled and my tank needs to be refilled. Give me some advice, before I end up in a junk yard. Every time I go to a party, I either don't get asked to dance or my first dance is the last. Could it be that the Funky Chicken and the Penguin are out of style, or what? I am medium height, and I have a tendency to blend in with the walls in a dark room. Is it too late for me to learn the latest dances? Dear By-passed, Signed, By-passed My next door neighbor has a particularly acute sense of hearing, and keeps late hours. This can be very uncool, when I'm with an all night visitor. I tried playing music, yet sometimes the records run out in inopportune moments. How can I protect myself from neighbors that gossip. Dear Thin, Signed, Thin walls, Thin patience r~-\\'-- .. ~ ...... -,;-.,.\\f::- :r Signed, Rusting at U. College Dear Rusting, Have you tried an STP oil treatment? If that doesn't work there is a small community in Schenectady, and a number of girl's colleges in the area. I'm sure you could find someone who could give you a tune-up. If not, maybe your model is out of date. De~r Sisterly Love, When are you ever going to step out of the dark and come into the light? Child you had better wake up to 1975! The Funky Chicken and the Penguin is out, however, that is only part of your problem. You could try wearing bright colors, wearing perfume that will attract your potential victim, or stay at home and watch the late show. Have you tried insulating your walls with newspaper, or stuffing towels underneath your door? Perhaps, you should just do your loving in a motel. Better yet, invite your nosey neighbor in to join you. I am a sister with a problem. Dear Sisterly Love, Thank you Mr. and Mrs. Stephen Brooks Lewis pose for Perspective cameras.

many who s was the duty bose; bout y he :ittle the he in bose the w!!! his- ball of ose ust ing ns to OJiiJt\'IJIB·- (Main Reference: Matilde J. Zimmerman, Teacher's Guide for Afro·American History, State of New York Department of Social Services ~ February 1969) 3. Revolutionary Period When we Americans think of the men and women of colonial N ortlt America, we think of white ;pilgrims ap.d fanners and -of their 1 red Indian adversaries. But the '>Slack man was also here in force. In (act, .some of the original thirteen colonies received more immigrants from Africa ·than from Europe. At the time ot the American Revolution,. about one fifth of all t}le. people in the United Stale~ were Negroe~; they numbered just over 750,000 in a total population of under fcn,u million. The great majoritY of the · Negroes in pre-revolution America were to be found in the seaboard colonies from Maryland south, and most of them were slaves. Afro-Americans played a crucial role in the development of the South, not only as common ·laborers in the rice, tobacco and sugar fields, but also as skilled workers. Most of the carpenters, blacksmiths, and the workers in sugar mills and tobacco processing plants, were African slaves. Some colonies .had mQre Negroes than whites:- in South Carolina, for instance, sixty-five percent of th~ popUlation was made up of slaves. ln. areas where slaves formed a majority, the fear of rebellion was very great. Therefore these colonies :led in . developing strict \Slave Codes\ for the- contnol of their black populations- PERSPECTIVE, Wednesday, M important of all, New England slaves had some )lope of earning their freedom. Even with these \advantages\ slaves rebelled. Insurrections in New York City in 1712 and 1741 terrified the white inhabitants of the city and led to retaliation against the slaves as a whole. In Boston, slaves were accused of setting a dozen fires in a single week ·of 1723. Sometimes rebellious slaves made common cause with Indians; a number of settlementf:l were attacked by joint for.ces of .Negroes and hidi;ms. This .prompted several towns te pass laws restricting the contact of Negro~s and Indians, or forbidding them to come out of doors during fires or other emergencies. . Some free Negroes became famous during the Revolutionary era. The New England poetess, Phyllis Wheatley, won acclaim in Europe and at home. Brought as a child from Africa, she had the good fortune to be bought by a kind couple who encouraged her to develop her literary talents. Sbe became well known after George Washington lauded a poem she had written in his honor. Nonetheless, many .people still found it difficult to believe that an African could compose such elegant verses. Perhaps the best known free Negro· was the scientist Benjamin · Banneker. His parents were free farmers in Maryland, and they were able to send their bright son to school. Benjamin made the first clock ever constructed in colonial America, and he went on to become a brilliant mathematician and astronomer. After the Revolution, he was one of the three men commissioned to lay out a new capital on the Potomac River. A local newspaper described tne trio He was born on art island off .Massachu!;etts, and from boyhood was fascinated by the sea and ships. Although he b:e,came a wealthy ship ... buildet and merch,ant, he did not forget his less fortunate brothers. Cuffe financed Negro educatio.n, agitated. for the civil rights of free Negroes and Indians, and was an early advocate of the abolition of slavery. At one time he favored the idea of recolonizing American Negroes in their African homeland, and he financed the first emigration scheme out of his. own. pocket. The agony of .bondage did not really touch the free men and womep.. who tnade names for themselves in the northern states, but theil;' accomplishments help to dramatize one of the tragedies of slavery. For every Phillis Wheatley and Benjamin Banneker there were hundreds of thousands of slaves who never had the oppoitunity to acquire even a rud:imentary education or to d'iseover their own special talents. We will nev~r know how the story of America might have been changed if the new nation had been able to use the fertile minds as well as the strong backs ·of these individuals. , The colonists of North America fought a revolutionary war to win their independence from England. Afro-Americans played a part in this battle for freedom. The first man to fall in the revolutionary cause was a runaway slave named Crispus Attacks, a martyr of Boston Massacre of 1770. Peter Salem, a slave from Framingham, Massachusetts, fought at Lexington and Concord and became the hero of the battle when he shot the British commander. Mo~e than seven hundred black volunteers from Haiti assisted American troops at the siege of Savannah. Free Negroes and slaves enlistment' again permitted, two Negro regiments were quickly formed in Massachusetts. In most other states, Negroes fought in the same regiments with white soldiers. Harriet Beecher Stowe described the special contribution made by the five thousand: Black soldiers of the revolution: \It was not for their own land they fought. not even for a land which had adopted them, but for a land which had enslaved them, and whose laws even In freedom oftener oppressed than protected. Bravery, under such circumstances, has a peculiar beauty and merit.\ The war for freedom was fought and won by white and Black American soldiers. A proud new nation was founded on the rights of .. life, liberty. and the pursuit of happiness,\ - but only for the four-fifths of the population which was white and free. The Founding Fa·thers, many of them slaveowners, soon made it very clear that the stirring sentiments embodied in the Declaration of Independence were meant to, inflame only white souls. At the Constitutional Conve.ntion, sl.avery was recognized in the national charter, and the slave :trade was guaranteed at least twenty more years of untroubled existence. Stiff constitutional provtsions insured that any slave who sought liberty or pursued happiness by running away from his master would be promptly punished and returned to slavery. The Convention decided that a slave should count as three fifths of a white man for the purpose of apportioning representation; this gave legitimacy to the notion that a Negro was somehow less than a man. while at the same time insuring inflated representation and power to the slave-holders of the South. PageC SPEAK OUT Two months. ago~- at my request, Jon Hillaon of the Young Socialist Alli~nce, spoke to a group of about 25 students and faculty on the topic, \How to Fight the Racists in Boston.\ The essence of his presentatioQ. was that there is today a broad attack O'n the gains of the civil rights movement of the fifties and sixties. The aim of this attack is to keep Afro-Americans and Latinos at the bottom of the social and economic system. In Boston this attack is focused on the attempt by racist white parents to prevent desegregation of the public schools. The response of public officials, from President Ford down to the members of the School .Committee has been to encourage the racists. Buses have been stoned and Black students and their bus drivers have been beaten by organized groups of racists. Last December 14th there was a mass mobilization of some 15,000 people in Boston to defend Black students against the racist attacks. On February 14th of this year, at a conference called by the National Student Coalition Against Racism, Thomas Atkins, president of the Boston NAACP announced a call for another mass mobilization May 17th to support school desegregation. Stressing the importance of Boston, Atkins noted that \If school desegregation cannot be brought about in Boston then it won't happen anywhere in the North .. That's why the fight must continue. And that's why we must win.\ I hope that both Black and white students will support the NAACP's call by organizing people at Union and m Schenectady to attend the May 17th demonstration. I appeal especially to white students to come forward to show their support for both the Black students in Boston and minority students at Union. Don't wait for President Bonner or some faculty committee to tell you that it's all As one moved northwards through the colonies, the proportion of Negroes in the total population diminished, and the ratio of free Negroes to slaves increast::d. New' England did not contain more than ,15,000 Afro- Americans, artd perhaps three- quarters of these were free men. Even the one fourth in bondage did not suffer as much as their brothers further south. New England had its own Slave Codes, but they were not so harsh as those in the South. Some education of slaves was permitted, and slave marriages were recognized. Within certain limits, slaves Were free to move about and meet with their fellows. Mos~ . architects: · Andrew Elliot ll, a Frenchman named Pierre Charles L'Enfant, and \Benjamin Banneker, an Ethiopian whose abilities as surveyor and astronomer already proves that Mr. Jefferson's concluding that race of men void of mental endowments was without foundation.\ From 1791 until 1802, Banneker published yearly almanacs which were used all over the United States as a source of scientific information. Paul Cuffe, was the son of an ex-slave and an Indian woman. hastened to enlist in the revolutionary army, until George Washington issued an_ order barring them from service. In a humiliating proclamation, he forbade recruiting officers to enlist .. any stroller, negro, or vagabond.\ Washington was forq:d to rescind his ban, however, after the British began promising freedom to slaves who joined their ranks. wfth. The American Revolution is, of course, a milestone in the history of the United States. But its message of freedom ·was not so clear to Black Americans as was another revolution of the same era. In 1791, the slaves of San Domingo . in the Carribean overthrew their French masters and formed the independent Black republic of Haiti. The slaveowners of the South attempted to suppress this ( ontinued on Page D ' · · <:'ontinued on Page D The next deadline for Perspective is May 25. Please submit all articles to Marilyn Becton, Hicko.k House. A QUESTION ANSWERED We went to the party the International Students Association held April 12th, and would like to offer our opinions on it. First of all, the band wasn't all that good, and Strauss Lounge was much too small for the amount of people that were there. The people were not those we could relate to, and in general the atmosphere was not at all conducive to the kind of partying we like to do. There were a number of others who felt the same way. so it was natural that we started another party to fulfill our desire to have a good time. We see no reason why the l.S.A. should feel insulted. Our actions were not a personal affront. Most of the Black people were at the party as part of our Black Weekend. Since the I.S.A.'s function was not satisfactory, we had to do something to keep our guests happy. The party was tired and thafs a fact. If the I.S.A. expects us to party with them, they will have to try harder. Which Way the Revolution? Stop just · about any Blac.k' person under 30 on the street today and they will tell you that the revolution will eventually come. But ask them when, how or i'n what form and all you will get is \I don't know but I'll be ready.\ Probably most whites and \chosen\ Blacks feel that the revolution is but a forgotten · dream. Yet each day as more Blacks lose their jobs faster than their white counterparts, the seed of revolt is placed in the breast of Black men young and old alike and it will only be a matter of time before it matures and J:jranches into the brain. Which brings the question \Which way the revolution?\ There are two paths which Blacks have assembled along irt the 1970's. One the carryover from the 1960's, the cause of Black nationalism and the newer, the cause of socialism. The Black nationalist hold that their oppression ·is due to the color of their skin and to cultural differences. The socialist hold that capita•lism is the creator of racism. they also hold that Blacks must unite with others who want to build a new world and finally, they contend that Black liberation is socialist revolution. ln answer to this the nationalist say that capitalism and socialism are but the right and left arm of the same white body. They hold that no matter what the economic system,. if Blacks do not establish themselves in supreme positions of power then the lot of Black people will not improve. It is the opinion of this writer that the answer lies somewhere in: between. True, the Black man must obtain positions of power in order to gain lib~ration, but I also feel that ' in the present money-controlled world, it will take a socialist revolution for that to come about. I therefore beseech my brothers and sisters to acquaint themselves with the works of Marx, Lenin, and Mao Tse-Tung, so that they will truly be ready. Brian J. Smart I would like to take this time now to thank all those who helped in the successful takeoff of the Blackbyrd's concert on April 11. I would like to thank the members of the BSA who helpe\ me, the members of the Social Committee who- helped with the mechanics, and Mrs. Marra who helped with eve~ything. It couldn•t have been done without you. Gloria Jones • Happy Birthd~y Milton! i ·i 1 f ! I \ ! 1 l l ~· .. tl l ' I Cathy Smith, Marilyn Becto~, Gail Chatman, Aseba B. Harrts Leonard D. Lee, Amanda, Edward Adams, Stanley O'Brien Once upon a time a very special person was born on May 13th, 1955. This · individual was named William Arnold Collins. Happy Birthday Bill, and welcome to your second decade. Love, Your secret admirer · P .S. Don't worry about it, Gloria!!!

who ined. was sses, the duty any bout he the he in the on his ball of ng to. m ty )[ d e PERSPECTIVE, Wednesday, May 11, ~I9_7_5 _____________________ .... P ..... ag ..... e....aC- SPEAK OUT (Main Reference: Matilde J. Zimmerman, Teacher's Guide for Afro-American History, State of New York Department of Social Services - February 1969) 3. Revolutionary Period When we Americans think of the men and women of colonial North America, we think of white ;pilgrims and farmers and of their 'red Indian adversaries. But the 'Black man was also here in force. In fact. some of the original thirteen colonies received more immigrants from Africa than from Europe. At the time ot the American Revolution, about one fifth of all the people in the United States were Negroes; they numbered just over 750,000 in a total population of under four miHion. The great majority of the Negroes in pre-revolution America were to be found in the seaboard colonies from Maryland south, and most of them were slaves. Afro-Americans played a crucial role in the development of the South, not only as common ·laborers in the rice, tobacco and important of all, New England slaves had some hope of earning their freedom. Even with these \advantages\ slaves rebel'led. Insurrections in New York City in 1712 and 17 41 terrified the white inhabitants of the city and led to retaliation against the slaves as a whole. In Boston, slaves were accused of setting a dozen fires in a single week of 1723. Sometimes rebellious slaves made common cause with Indians; a number of settlements were attacked by joint forces of Negroes and Indians. This prompted several towms to pass laws restricting the contact of Negroes and Indians, or forbidding them to come oMt of doors during fires or other emergencies. Some fvee Negroes became famous during the Revolutionary era. The New England poetess, Phyllis Wheatley, won acclaim ia Europe and at home. Brought as a child from Africa, she had the good fortune to be bought by a kind couple who encouraged her to develop her literary talents. She became well known after George Washington lauded a poem she had written in his honor. Nonetheless, many people still found it difficult to believe that an African could compose such elegant verses. sugar fields, but also as skilled workers. Most of the carpenters, blacksmiths, and the workers in sugar mills and tobacco processing plants, were African slaves. Some colonies had more Negroes than whites: -in South Carolina. for instance, sixty-five percent of the population was made up of slaves. In areas where slaves formed a majority, the fear of rebellion was very great. Therefore these colonies led in developing strict \Slave Codes\ for the control of their black populations. As one moved northwards through the colonies, the proportion of Negroes in the total population diminished, and the ratio of free Negroes to slaves increased. New England did not contain more than 15,000 Afro- Americans, and perhaps three- quarters of these were free men. Even the one fourth in bondage did not suffer as much as their brothers further south. New England had its own Slave Codes, but they were not so harsh as those in the South. Some education of slaves was permitted, and slave marriages were recognized. Within certain limits, slaves were free to move about and meet with their fellows. Mos; Perhaps the best known free Negro was the scientist Benjamin Banneker. His parents were free farmers in Maryland, and they were able to send their bright son to school. Benjamin made the first clock ever constructed in colonial America, and he went on to become a brilliant mathematician and astronomer. After the Revolution, he was one of the three men commissioned to lay out a new capital on the Potomac River. A local newspaper described the trio architects: Andrew Elliot II, a Frenchman named Pierre Charles L'Enfant, and \Benjamin Banneker, an Ethiopian whose abilities as surveyor and astronomer already proves that Mr. Jefferson's concluding that race of men void of mental endowments was without foundation.\ From 1791 until 1802. Banneker published yearly almanacs which were used all over the United States as a source of scientific information. Paul Cuffe. was the son of an ex-slave and an Indian woman. Which Way the Revolution? He was born on an island off Massachusetts, and from boyhood was fascinated by the sea and ships. Although he became a wealthy ship-builder and merchant, he did not forget his less fortunate brothers. Cuffe financed Negro education, agitated for the civil rights of free Negroes and Indians, and was an early advocate of the abolition of slavery. At one time he favored the idea of recolonizing American Negroes in their AfricaH homeland, and he financed the first emigration scheme out of his own pocket. The agony of bondage did not really touch the free men and women who made names for themselves in the northern states, but their accomplishments help to dramatize one of the tragedies of slavery. For every Phillis Wheatley and Benjamin Banneker there were hundreds of thousands of slaves who never had the opportunity to acquire even a rudimentary education or to discover their own special talents. We will never know how the story of America might have been changed if the Rew nation had been able to use the fertile minds as wet! as the strong backs of these individuals. The colonists of North' America fought a revolutionary war to win their independence from England. Afro-Americans played a part in this battle for freedom. The first man to fall in the revolutionary cause was a runaway slave named Crispus Attacks, a martyr of Boston Massacre of 1770. Peter Salem, a slave from Framingham, Massachusetts, fought at Lexington and Concord and became the hero of the battle when he shot the British commander. More than seven hundred black volunteers from Haiti assisted American troops at the siege of Savannah. Free Negroes and slaves hastened to enlist in the revolutionary army, until George Washington issued an order barring them from service. In a humiliating proclamation, he forbade recruiting officers to enlist \any stroller, negro, or vagabond.\ Washington was forced to rescind his ban, however, after the British began promising freedom to slaves who joined their ranks. With Stop just about any Black person under 30 on the street today and they will tell you that the revolution will eventually come. But ask them when, how or in what form and all you will get is \I don't know but I'll be ready.\ Probably most whites and \chosen\ Blacks feel that the revolution is but a forgotten dream. Yet each day as more Blacks lose their jobs faster than their white counterparts, the seed of revolt is placed in the breast of Black men young and old alike and it will only be a matter of time before it matures and branches into the brain. Which brings the question \Which way the revolution?\ nationalist say that capitalism and socialism are but the right and left arm of the same white body. They hold that no matter what the economic system, if Blacks do not establish themselves in supreme positions of power then the lot of Black people will not improve. It is the opinion of this writer that the answer lies somewhere in between. True, the Black man must obtain positions of power in order to gain liberation, but I also feel that in the present money-controlled world, it will take a socialist revolution for that to come about. I therefore beseech my brothers and sisters to acquaint themselves with the works of Marx, Lenin, and Mao Tse-Tung, so that they will truly be ready. Brian J. Smart I would like to take this time now to thank all those who helped in the successful takeoff of the Blackbyrd's concert on April 11. I would like to thank the members of the BSA who helped me, the members of the Social Committee who helped with the mechanics, and Mrs. Marra who helped with everything. It couldn't have been done without you. enlistment· again permitted, two Negro regiments were quickly formed in Massachusetts. In most other states, Negroes fought in the sa,me regiments with white soldiers. Harriet Beecher Stowe described the special contribution made by the five thousand Black soldiers of the revolution: \It was not for their own land they fought, not even for a land which had adopted them, but for a land which had enslaved them, and whose laws even in freedom oftener oppressed than protected. Bravery, under such circumstances, has a peculiar beauty and merit.\ The war for freedom was fought and won by white and Black American soldiers. A proud new nation was founded on the rights of \life liberty, and the pursuit of happiness,\ - but only for the fo1:1r-fifths of the pop11lation which was white and free. The Founding Fathers, many of them slaveowners, soon made it very clear that the stirring sentiments embodied in the Declaration of Independence were meaRt to .inflame only white souls. At the Constitutional Convention, slavery was recognized in the national charter, and the slave trade was guaranteed at least twenty more years of untroubled existence. Stiff constitutional prov1s1ons insured that any slave who so1:1ght liberty or pursued happiness by running away from his master would be promptly punished and returned to slavery. The Convention decided that a slave should count as three fifths of a white man for the purpose of apportioning representation; this gave legitimacy to the notion that a Negro was somehow less than a man. while at the same time insuring inflated representation and power to the slave-holders of the South. The American Revolution is, of course. a milestone in the history of the United States. But its message of freedom was not so clear to Black Americans as was another revolution of the same era. In 1791, the slaves of San Domingo in the Carribean overthrew their French masters and formed the independent Black republic of Haiti. The slaveowners of the South attempted to suppress this < ontinued on Pa~;te D There are two paths which Blacks have assembled along in the 1970's. One the carryover from the 1960's, the cause of Black nationalism and the newer, the cause of socialism. The Black nationalist hold that their oppression is due to the color of their skin and to cultural differences. The socialist hold that capitalism is the creator of racism. They also hold that Blacks must unite with others who want to build a new world and finally, they contend that Black liberation is socialist revolution. In answer to this the Gloria Jones · Happy Birthday Milton! Two months ago, at my request, Jon Hillson of the Young Socialist Alliance, spoke to a group of about 25 students and faculty on the topic, \How to Fight the Racists in Boston.\ The essence of his presentation was that there is today a broad attack on the gains of the civil rights movement of the fifties and sixties. The aim of this attack is to keep Afro-Americans and Latinos at the bottom of the social and economic system. In Boston this attack is focused on the attempt by racist white parents to prevent desegregation of the public schools. The response of public officials, from President Ford down to the members of the School ..Committee has been to encourage the racists. Buses have been stoned and Black st11dents and their bus drivers have beea beaten by organized groups of racists. Last December 14th there was a mass mobilization of some 15,000 people in Boston to defend Black students against the racist attacks. On February 14th of this year, at a conference called by the Nati,onal Student Coalition Against Racism, Thomas Atkins, president of the Boston NAACP announced a call for another mass mobilization May 17th to support school desegregation. Stressing the importance of Boston, Atkins noted that \If school desegregation cannot be brought about in Boston then it won't happen anywhere in the North .. That's why the fight must continue. And that's why we must win.\ I hope that both Black and white students will support the NAACP's call by organizing people at Union and m Schenectady to attend the May 17th demonstration. I appeal especially to white students to come forward to show their support for both the Black students in Boston and minority students at Union. Don't wait for President Bonner or some faculty committee to tell you that it's all ' ( onflnued on Page D The next deadline for Perspective is May 25. Please submit all articles to Marilyn Becton, Hickok House. A QUESTION ANSWERED We went to the party the International Students Association held April 12th, and would like to offer our opinions on it. First of all, the band wasn't all that good, and Strauss Lounge was much too small for the amount of people that were there. The people were not those we could relate to, and in general the atmosphere was not at all conducive to the kind of partying we like to do. There were a number of others who felt the same way. so it was natural that we started another party to fulfill our desire to have a good time. We see no reason why the l.S.A. should feel insulted. Our actions were not a personal affront. Most of the Black people were at the party as part of our Black Weekend. Since the l.S.A.'s function was not satisfactory, we had to do something to keep our guests happy. The party was tired and that's a fact. If the I.S.A. expects us to party with them, they will have to try harder. Cathy Smith, Marilyn Becton, Gail Chatman, Aseba B. Harris Leonard D. Lee, Amanda, Edward Adams, Stanley O'Brien Once upon a time a very . special person was born on May 13th, 1955. This individual was named William Arnold Collins. Happy Birthday Bill, and welcome to your second decade. Love, Your secret admirer P .S. Don't worry about it, Gloria!!!

'· ' \ ',,' '. ' J't I. I : ., ~ J PageD ________________________________ ~P~E~R~S~P~~-c_r_r_v_E.~,_Wt_e_d_n_~_d.~ay~,-A/,~ay~J4~,~1~9~75~------------~~~------~------~~~~-~ Re.cipe of .. th.e Week Poetry Dutrag·e. uutrage BlaekM.en Black Men How dare you deny me my human dignity. YOU, foulest of all living creatures! YOU, who would kill your own flesh ·and blood to remain on your shaky pedestal. MempiJis' Favorite ·I marinated chicken, cut up I can Of Campbell's Mushroom Soup the essence of Black women's existence Black men are the gifts of uniqueness rendered unto this world Black men are clothed How dare you show disregard to my ancestral heritage. When it was my past - that made your future brighter. YOU Christian brethren ~ I cup fresh rtius)lraoms Ys cup c)lopped onions Ys cup chopped green peppers ~ tablespoon salt . Ys tablespoon black pepper I cup water in an array of spicy, YOU, God forsaken children - festive colors .... They are the constant YOU, who continuously demean another while losing your mind over the latest Dow Jones average. How d!ue you go to the Bible when doing .evil Nineteen years ago on May IS, a LOVER (?) was bom. Happy Birthday, Milton. .And (Note: M a·rinate chicken overnight wit~ Ys cup onions, % cup green pepJJers, % tablespoon of salt; % teaspoon of black pepper, % tablespoon of garlic and three tablespoons of Vinegar, Make slits ·ill, each piece of chicken.) · portrayal of seasons Black men walk with wisdom Their insights moisten the roots of knowledge. and swearing it to be just and ••holy\ YOU, killer of human life - YOU, emancipator of freemen - (like rain nourishing the soil) YOU, genocidal M.A., Pb,D~ - Their humor radiates brightness YOU, inferior-superior being How dare you live! Fry chicken for about 20 minutes on medium (leat. Remove chicken f1om skillet and. place in a roasting pan aiad a.dd the rest of the ingredients except for the fresh mushrooms. Bake at 350 degrees F. for about I hour. Add fresh mushrooms and bake for additional 15 minutes. Makes 5 to 6 servings. (like when sunshine bathes every morn) TAMA·RA Meditation Their understanding cuddle!! and ·caresses our inner souls (like the swelling night wraps the world in a blanket) Black Men We, Black women see you as MEN a statue never to crumple, a wind never to collapse, a ray of sunshine never to frown, an ocean tide never to be tamed. Black Men never let your image falter or fade. Continue, strive for what you want and never cling steadfastly to the pitfalls of the past. Cling on to life and let it not pass you by in a whisk of hurry Value things which soothe the soul, !>athe the heart, and revive the mind. Sitting in my corner studying the inner reaches of my mind I find that I am ~eautiful Beautiful \Black Woman waiting, waiting, waiting for the moment when tlie world realizes it is mine! TAMARA mntinued from Page C right to be against racism. Speak out and take action on your own. Sadaina N. Homs For those persl)as who came to the picnic a11d didn't show up for the B.S.A. meeting the next day, DON'T complain aboiJt any decision made. . :::11 l: , Always be true, there are no imitations of you, for you are .... BLACK MEN ASEBA Together? To me, one of· tb.e most disgraceful and hurtful cases of discrimination was reported in the March 6th issue of Perspective. There probably was nothing illegal or even contrary h> the regulations of Union College in the treatment of former campus bookstore employee, Jerry Seaberry. However the ·racist motivation and its effects are obvious. That no action has been ( ontinued from Page A counselling slots will be able tc take one course here at Union i they choose to go to summet school.\ Ms. Gilmore hopes to gain af much from the program as th( students do. She says that •• ... thi~ job gives me the opportunity tc utilize my educational experience~ with high school people and with college level people. It gives me a chance to focus in on a lot ol different things that I've been doing. Most importantly it give~ me a chance to settle down. J would like eventually to teach a course here at Union for undergraduates in an attempt to again merge the program with the campus at large.\ taken in this case makes -it crystal clear that administrative . committees and griev.ance procedures are not going to do anything to change racist actions and attitudes on this campus. What is needed at ·Union is the same thing that is needed in Boston the independent mobilization of antiracists to force racists everywhere to recognise that they will not be allowed to continue their racist actions. I have resolved to boycott the campus bookstore until some action is taken on the complaints of Mrs. Seaberry. It would l>e a good thing if some of the administrators who have C()me out against racism, in the abstract would make their opposition concrete in this case. I plan to be in Boston on May 17th to support the NAACP march. I hope that some Union College students and faculty will join me. Dan McNett ( ontinued from Page B \Zebra\ killings that, as a -young member of the group, he was allowed to a~ompany the defendants as tiler drove through San Francisco shl)oting whites at random. Previously, Mr. Harris had said he wa=s not present during the murder of a grocery store owner, nor was he at the scene when a young white wom11.n was killed and her husband attacked. Under tough q11estioning ~y defense attorneys, Mr. Harris testified under oatfl that he had been working in a l\4uslim-owned business with the bur defendants while the three murders and four ~ssaults of the \Zebra\ affair were 'being committed. Also, h~ testified that he was present when the grocery owner was killed, ~hen his finger print and palm print were produce(( as evidence. He further testified that he was present during the a:ssa:ult on the woman and her husband. Lynn says she plans to stay for a while. \To my way of thinking I've found a home, and I intend to make the program as good as !lOssible and to last as long as the federal government chooses to fund this type of program. My long-range goals are varied. I ·plan to finish my doctorate. I won•t be working on it this year but in another year or so I intend to finish the course work and get my dissertation going . .Also, I would like to take a course in Spanish. Eventually I hope to get married and buy .a farm. We might even settle down in this area.;, Bill! Gail! How long has this been going on? Times Are Hard Mr. Harris was s!Iown to have a:n inefficient memol'y. He could describe in detail n.ames, events a.nd plac~s associated with the incident~. but CQU}d not \In conclusion, Upward Bound intends to integrate itself with the college community at large and would be interested in anybody that would be interested in participating in the program. There will be some openings after the summer program for . those who would like to sponsor a student and tutor him or her throuJdtout the year. we~u be having- other community involvement programs that the student body at large is welcome to join and help out. As a matter of fact we encourage that.\ For the most part, just stop up and get in touch! Sac1ama N. Ho1111 • History < ·ontinued from Page (: revolutionary news, a11d they passed ever stricter Jaws to keep their own slaves under control. News of the revolt could not be hidden, and a whole series of slave uprisings was inspired by the Haitian events. The Carribean revolution had another important result for United States history; it helped convince Napolean to relinquish his dreams of a massive French empire in the New World and thus was a factor in his decision to sell the Louisiana Territory to the United States. This in tum opened new lattds for sugar and cotton plantations a!id permitted the rapid expansion at~d further entrenchment of the .southern .. slave system. · Times are hard It's getting .so that the \man\ can't find a job and place to live, for what it's worth. Jt's getting so that the \man\ can't afford the luxuries of life that he's been accustomed to. Getting so that the \man\ is fighting the \man'' Times are hard. 'TAMARA To.gether Take my hand and together we will find a world free of war. Take my hand and together we will go somewhere where hatred and prejudice have no existence. Take my hand and together we will find a land of· love and peace. Take my hand and together we can find true happiness, true salvation .. Together, with your hand in nilne, we can find tltese things We can do it TOGETHER. TAMARA remember police ~fficers who q11estioned him for as much as ei.ght hours a sessiot:J during the past year. The four men indkted last year by the grand jury for the \Zebr~\ slayings are Larry (Jreen, J.C. Simon, Manuel Moor~ and Jessie Cooks. The press made a great deal of fuss last year over the fact that some of the men (including the witness) were associated with the Nation of ]slam. There was an attempt to relate dte alleg~d actions of the f()ur ·men to the na.ture of Black Muslim philosophy. The pres:~ bas not, however~ concerned itself with this aspect of the (ase. No matter: the prosecution must .find itself a new or more reliable \star or else the four \murderers\ wilJ ha\l'e to be released. Or maybe the cottrt would like to fiJl.d the men · guilty. based on a witlltss who was. not preseJJt at a11y of the muFders, while prese11t during two. Huh? . , .

• Only three out of the fifty · people at a Friday itlght. film ill : 016 realized t)tat tbe nels bad · bee.- shown md of sequence. Way to 10, Union. Vol. 104, No. 24 Ravine trouble getting to sleep? ·Candidates' statements on pages 8 and 9. Good night, an. .~~satire's my weapon, but I'm too discreet/ To run amuck, qnd tilt at alii meet. -Alexander Pope . ~----- ... Wedn~sda_Y, M~y 21, 1975 35 cents Compromise Reached on Constitutional Amendment SPECIAL TO CONCORDIENSIS Senate. Steering Committee Members listen attentively toa;guments presented at Town Meeting on Tuesday night. (photo by Mike Marks) Last night a tow.n meeting was called by the Steering Committee to discuss Student opinion on the new Constitution, ;particularly the controversia'l Jr. class Representative clause and the Trustee clause. These articles would have had the effect of allowing Lee Rimsky and Jim Kane, the present Jr. class reps. to be elected to a two year term to the Steering Committee so that they could continue their representation not only on the Student Forum next yea.r (assuming ratification of the new Constitution) but also on the All- College Senate. This would have precluded Juniors from running for the Senate this year. The Trustee .~;lause would have placed Geoff Taylor, Jr. Trustee on the The meeting commenced with Jeff Broomes, President of the Steering Committee, announcing the Committee's intentions to ratify the new Constitution. For the Steering Committee to vote on acceptance or rejection of the new Constitution, a petition of 600 signatures supporting ratification is required. The Committee then opened the discussion to .the floor for comments and suggestions on the debated clause. Sidey Speaks Out on Leadership by JACK PITNEY Hugh Sidey, Washington Bureau Chief for Time Magazine, came to Union last Thursday to speak on · ''The Nature of Leadership ... He said that even despite rece1;1t attacks on the 'Executive •Branch, \The U.S. 'President is niore .powerful than ever. He remains the most powerful man irt the world ... Sidey stressed the importance of the President's personal character. '\As l have looked at the Presidency,\. he:said, \it seems to me that what lies within these men, as the office has grown in power ... becomes the most important dimension of . the American Presidency.\ He admitted that the press had been remiss in its duty to probe into the personalities of public officials. \In fact, when you look over Nixon, Agnew, Eagleton, and other people in public life who have gone bad or have the potential of going bad, and we have not said anything, I think that's our greatest failing.'' Sidey then gave his impressions of the five Presidents he has known: \l thought Eisenhower was a pretty bad President, to be hQnest with you ... All ·of our current problems ·began- to incubatedn•his time ... j' Even -so, said Sidey, Eisenhower had._the trust of the American people; \and ·if you have that trust, thafs an immense, immense force.\ John Kennedy ••was a mark of s c h o Iars hip. . I admired Kennedy ... M·r. Eisenhower's generation had won the war ... now it was time, as Kennedy said in his inaugural, for those who fought the war to take over.\ ~ LBJ was the most ama.zing man I've ever encountered ... He just loved power. He loved the trappings of office. He wanted to force the world into his mold ... He literally felt bad when he couldn't stride over everyone.\ Of Nixon: \His life had been based in some strange way on Hockey Upheaval by MIKE AFFINITO Since the arrival at Union of Ned Harkness, 1968 Coach of the Year in United States college hockey, the prospect of establishing a program of competitive major college hockey here has hecotrie an almost undeniable .certainty. While at Cornell University, Harkness led that team ·to five consecutive championships during the years 1964-1969. While there he compiled an amating record of 163 wins. 27 losses, and 2 ties. As head coach at RPI. Harkness was able to lead the Engineets to an ~CAA title. making him the only coach ever to have won two such titles at two different schools. In 1970 Harkness left collegiate hockey to coach the Detroit Red Wings of the National Hockey League, thus becoming the first coach ever to move directly from college to NHL hockey. Harkness later moved into the · General Manager 1 s position witb the Red Wings. Resigning from that job in January of <l974.he remained with the organi1ation in an executive capacitv until his acceptwce of th~ coaching job at Union m Jam.1ary of 1975. C()ach & Facility Fundamental The prestigious name and reputation of Ned Harkness and the opportunity to play in a new and beautifully constructed facility, Achilles Rink, have been fundamental in attractin.g prospective hockey candidates away from well-establis·hed hockey playing schools and toward Union. Over one•hundred and twenty-five inquiries and subsequent applications Were filed by prospective freshmen hockey players without any prior solicitation. Of these app·Jicants, Harkness selected twenty which he felt were the best potential players and strongly recruited them. Of the twenty which Harkness sought to bring to Union, none have turned dowll the offer to attend school here. Continued on Page 4 hate. on his distrust of people. And that grew and festered .and at some . point, {Nixon's men) violated the rights of one person and finally they were a law unto themselves.\ ·ford is \not an innovator. lie's Continued on Pag~ 3 · The Case Against College SPECIAL TO CONCORDIENSIS Calling herself a \revolutionary\, Ms. Caroline Bird spoke in Memorial Chapel Monday night on her latest published book, The Case Against College·. Her book is basically a political one, and is not based on the assumption that colleges are worthless. Rather Ms. Bird believes that while college is good for some it just is not right for everyone and people are simply railroaded into going for lack of anything better to do. It is a political book because college life has become political with professors holding the power to exclude students from the job market by failing them. She suggests a radical change from education.al and hiring procedures followed today. According to Ms. Bird, people offer three reasons for going to college - first, it's an investment for inc_reased future earnings; Continued on Page io Ned_ Harkness, U Coli Hockey mentor, is the only hockey coach ever to lead two different schools to NCAA titles. David McCourt and Jon Scheer presented a petition signed by five hundred and forty members of the Student Body which objected to passage of the Constituti.on a~ lop.g as it included the clauses expanding the power of the present Jr. class Representative and the Jr. class Trustee. The thrust of their contention was that the aforementioned three officials should not be seated on the All- College Senate without a general election of the student body that they are to represent. Jon Levin, another proponent of this view, argued that the justification for this belief was that the office of All-College Senate w.as separate and distinct from the Steering Committee position and therefore required a separate election for the three representatives before they could assume positions as College Senators. These arguments were countered by the contention that continuity was essential to an effective transition by student governments. Foremost among the points raised by this belief, as stated by Bruce· Sostek, was the advantages and obvious benefits to the student body as a whole by experienced and knowledgeable reprc~cntauvcs. The principle thesis of this argument maintains that class representatives arc elected by their constituencies to serve as their spokesmen in the student government, and that this representation encompasses the present expansion of functions. Among the major proponents of this belief were Bruce Downsbor.ough and Steve Wayne. After several minutes of debate. Matt Brief outlined a procedure for a vote of confidence that would entitle the Jr. Class to decide whether it wanted Kane and Rimsky to sit on the Senate. and for the Student Body to decide if Taylor should he seated on the Senate, lhe performance of these three representatives was not called into question. but rather the ethical and !ega I problems encountered in expanding their power without a general election. The mechanics of the plan were subsequently explained by Brief and it was Continued on Page 5

Page] 90NCORDIENSIS, Wednesday, May 21, 1975 ~d.itQrs-in-c.hief........... . • ... ~~· •. J onatha~ Scheer- . . Peter Sobol F.eatures Edit~r . <· ... · ..•.•.•..•.•. Lee Rimsky Culture Editors ... ~ . . . . . . . . • . . . ... Mike Affinito ~ · ~ · 'David Moskowitz Sports Editors ........ ; ...• ; • · .. Kevin Crawford . . Barb Dewey Managing Editor .....•...•. .' .• t :. ~nee T~vis Copy Editor ..... _. .......• ; ·: · .••.. Phil Alcabes Contributing Editors . ~ ....•.•...... J)ldY Dein Rob Mondschein Bill Talis Business Manager • . . . . . . . . . . . • . . Robin Pellish National Advertising ....•.•..•.•.. Betsy Barn~t Subscriptions : . ....... · ..•.•.••.•. Shelley Gold. . Lisa Tietz . . ' .. Photo Staff: ·Greg Cohen, .Dan ~~Manamon, . Rich Guardian, Rudy Lu, Arthur Miller, Don ~a~erman, Dave Gro$sman Staff:. Bill Plaus, John Busteiud, Sue Brickman, Jack Pitney, Matt Brief. Joe Friedman, C.lare 'Yalken CONCORJ)IENSIS iS published every We4nesday· by tbe student body of Union· CoDe&e, Old Gym Hall, Schenectady, N.Y.; to wllidt Postal Forms 3579 are directed. Publkations Office: The Jewish WO..Id · PuiJiiations, 4•6 Smith St., . &heneetaciy, N.Y. 12305 (370-5483). Entered. m the Schenectady P~ee as· Second Class Matter. Subscription Rate 35 eents per e~SUO a year delivnd anywhere in'tbe United States. - ... . . - . - . is this the Spanish Inquisition ~ • I suppose th~ time has come, as they say, to grab the bull by the tail and face the situation. Coneordiensis is printing letters from well-mannered, God-fearing, hard-working gentlemen and allowing these letters to be despoiled and damaged by also printing short answers to them; answers chock full of sniveling poor taste and downright viciousnes~ .. As the .often-time author of these notes,. it has been suggested that I finally attempt to justify my existence. I have tried, Reverend Fathers, to maintain a lighthearted air about this publication. Not by the total exclus~on of all that is serious - all of the people are serious some of thl! time - but rather by leaving, if you will, a lighthearted aftertaste from the week's news and opinions. Yes, Reverend Fathers, it truly pains me to know that there are those who do not approve of my ends. There is no right or wrong here. I can only say to these serious-minded persons that they have had their day in Coneordy under past commanders, and are likely to have their day again in the medium future. But for now, they must do as I and my compatriots did in the past: read selectively. And yes, Reverend Fathers, I know that there are many who object strongly to my means. These fellows I do not hesitate to answer, . for I am, in my quest for the chuckle, the smile, and the giggle, following a divine decree. For the Lord, in the person of the Dean of Students, spake unto me saying, \ ... and ye shall go forth among the moiibund and the catatonic, and ye shall wreak havoc with all they hold dear,. so that in the end, they shall awaken, and be polarized, and, yea, they shall speak their minds unto their brothers and sisters, that each may know the thoughts of the others.,. This have I struggled for on every page and in every issue. Thus,. when I read the letters addressed to this publication, I was struck by the unexplored opportunity for encouraging exchanges of wit and ideas. It may be, Reverend Fathers, that I was incorrect to comment on some of these letters, but those that deal with this publication, its practices and its policies, 'I was and. am determined to answer. Woe, say I, to humankind when they cannot step back and view these days with an eye for how they stand next to the true matter of life! · I know, Reverend Fathers, that my trial is not ended. I know that there are people out there now who, on the basis of a mere few lines of boldface lowercase type believe that I kick dogs and only laugh the laugh of a successful villain. How can I show them my true devoted self? But I must remember that it is a penalty of devotion to be misread, and I must take solace from the fact that, like it or loath it, Reverend Fathers, you read it, and that is all that matters. PGS take it like a Dian pgs Editors, CONCORDIENSIS: The weekly rantings and ravings of PGS are getting out of hand. Except for an occasional witty remark, his writing ·llsually goes from the ridiculous to the absurd. J, for one, am getting tired of reading about his crazy imagination, especially when it comes to the new hockey rink and the feared parking problems, and I'm sure I'm not alone in my feelings. Granted, the new rink will cause some parking problems, yet somehow I don't recall much trouble when 2,500 pack the Fieldhouse for a basketball game. Most of the poeple at the hockey games (and what concerts there will be) are probably going to be Union stu!!ents, living on or near the campus, all of whom can walk. '1 think that Sobol is letting his imagination get out of hand if he expects the parking problem to be of drastic proportions. · Also, when somebody writes a letter to Concordy with a complaint or comment contrary to the thought's 'of the editors, there's always a nice put-down after the Jetter. authored, of course, by PGS. How do you expect anybody to air their views if au they get for their trouble is a witty quip? I am sick and tired of seeing this child of an editor try to get in the last word, and I would be the first to blacktop his mouth and chainsaw his pen . Bill Peck'76 Ed. note: Anyone writing to this newspaper about this newspaper usually expects and certainly deserves an answer. As for the last word, tomorrow is another week and another issue. And by golly, Peck, it seems you will have no tr.ouble getting summer work. PGS thanks Editors, CONCORDIENSIS; My heart felt thanks to all the members of the coflege community who sent me their get- well wishes during my recent surgery in Boston, and a special thank you to those wonderful 47 people who donated blood in my name. My family ;md I were overwhelmed by the thoughtfulness of your donations. ·Once again, many thanks. 'Ray Neuhaus Maintenance amateurs? Editors, CONCORDIENSIS: In the last issue of Con~ordy there seemed to be some confusion over who was or wasn't an amateur radio statio.n at Union. It is good to know that WR UC realizes that it is not an amateur radio station. However, it is difficult to see how anybody could mistake Coneordiensis as an amateur t;adio station, considering that amateur radio is universally associated with a sense of responsibility and public service. I am proud to admit that W,2 UC IS an amateur radio station. Richard Barnett President, Union College Amateur Radio Society Ed. note: Bully for you, W2! PGS MRA earp subversive Editors, CONCORDIENSIS; Anyone who read the three part series on \Cult Religions\ in last week's Knickerbocker News (an Albany paper) is,. I· am sure, as shocked as I am to find out the true nature of these organizations. foreign • The descriptions of two young ObJeet men who were victimized by an Editors, CONCORDIENSIS: Last Thursday afternoon, May 15, a group of Davidson residents was sunbathing out on the lawn by Union Street. We were laying there, paying little attention to the ·lawnmower cutting the grass about thirty feet away froiP us, when suddenly something shot by us, barely missing someone•s head. Apparently it was tne enclosed piece of metal. Had this hit one of us, it could have possibly caused a deep cut. The metal fragment was a piece of a soda can left out on the lawn by some irresponsible student. One would think that college students would be responsible enough to clean up when they leave the sun to go back into their rooms. Whoever was irresponsible and inconsiderate enough to leave the can out there could have caused someone serious injury. At the same time, I thiqk that the maintenance personnel, while cutting the grass, should not find it too strenuous to remove any objects such as cans that they might find in the paths of their lawnn10wers. And even if the grass may be too deep to see what is in front. they could at least warn sunbathers when they hear their machines hit metal objects. I write this letter only to warn students to pick up after their mess ... for their OWN good. I would appreciate your printing a photo of the metal fragment so that students can see what their carelessness can bring upon them. Rieh Guardian organization called CARP, and how their minds were taken over by this organization, are trulf frightening. There ca.n be no mistake about it, the God that CARP and other organizations like it would have people believing in and working for is nothing but a wealthy eccentric person, living somewhere down the Hudson. In our own Catt;iegie Hall, here on campus, CARi> has a few signs and a representative or two to talk with 'troubled' people. Seems very innocent, doesn't it? Yet almost invariably, the people who stop by are invited for further talk at the CARP center, somewhere on Carrie Street. It is there, at their dinners, that the indoctrination, and the production of what both sets of parents of the two young victims called 'zombies; takes place. CARP is a dangerous organization. STAY AWAY FROM THEM. I would even go one step further. I feel that they should not be allowed to have representatives stationed in Carnegie, or anywhere else on Campus. All I am asking is that a few concerned people look into the facts, get back copies of last week's editions of the Knickerbock News, and talk to people who know about CARP. If the truth doesn't scare you as much as it scared me, then maybe my plea ought to be ignored. Yet I am sure that when you tead the articles, you will agree that this College is no place for an organization like CARP. Sincerely Robert Kaslovsky ][ amerikka Editors, Concordiensi~: _ \Twenty-one years is too long,\ read one of the slogans. \Desegregate Boston schools now!\ read another. The NAACP proclaimed Saturday, May 17th to be the day for a nation-wide rally for school desegft!gation. Thousands of people from all over the nation gave tqeir support to enforcement of the 1954 Supreme Court Decision of Brown vs. the Board ·or Edtic:ation of Kansas. After twenty-one years ameri!Qkka's schools are still segregated. Black youths .are still getting inferior education; and the people's voices still cry out for equal education for aU. There were 50,000 Americans in Boston on ·May 17th. Americans, both Black and White, together for one common cause. Union College students showed their support. The Black Students Alliance financed a bus to Boston, filling all but seven seats. There ·were no financial requirements to ·board this bus; the only needed requirement was concern about the young Black . children who were;are harassed by Whites in their efforts to be educated. With all the concern being shown towards the economic crisis, the Middle-EAst crisis, the inter~ational relation crisis ~ school desegregation has not been over-looked (at least not by the 50,000 people who gave their support May 17th.) Though the march advocated school desegregation, the underlying reason for the march was to bring still-existing racism to the forefront: 1 To think that in the year 1975 racism is still an issue, makes one think about amerikkka's clliim to \greatness.\ Racism in this country- co11tinues. lt continues at the cost of certain cultural group's chances of advancement in this nation (for what it's worth); it continues at the cost of certain cultural groups' subsistence; And it continues at the cost of ethnic groups .hating one another for no other reason than the \system\ setting these groups against one another in competition, for livelihood and \the amerikkan way.\ In my eyes the mass rally held in Boston on Saturday· May 17th was a huge success, in that it brought together thousands of Americans who no longer will submit themselves to amerikkka's racist actions when dealing with people who came to this country by no choice of their own and who now find themselves no better off then when they first set foot on this blood:stained land! Sincerely, Phyllis James wlsoff withdraws Editors, Concordiensis: . Due to the great amount of ·time and effort that I will spend as Mountebanks Program Director in the coming year, I have decided not to run for Junior Class Trustee and wish to withdraw my name from the ballot. I would like to thank all the people who have supported me in this. endeavor. Sincerely M~rshall Wisoft' •, ., . ,I .c c f, I< I< a . e ( J ( 1 1 1 • I

.... a long,\ >gan&. chools aimed lte d!!-y school s of nation ement Court Board years stiii e still td the lt for ricans 17th. and 11m on owed dents to seats. tcial bus; twas Jlack . 'lssed o be >eing omic , the i- been 'the their a ted the arch =ism tt in I an )OUt :ss. ~' ues. tain of (for ; at llps' ; at ting son lese in lnd teld 7th it of ~ill :a's 'itb. try nd no set i! >f d n I if () e II f r - CONf;ORDIENSJS, Wedn~sd4y, May 21,. 1975 Page3 I rub &rrinus .. involved cannot be all there~ The student body as a Whole should be as grateful for this conflict as the nation was for by R.B. THAU Watergate. There are obvious Union is now eng~ged in .a ben(!fits to scandals that c;;:scape .constitutional crisis of such only the most observant eyes. For colossal magnitude that, recently; example, we have been made four people in the same dorm aware that a constitution exists · knew that it existed. They did not on campus that sets up certain know .what the crisis was all political and governing about, but they were :awa.te of its institutions. What theS'e existence~ There is a select group institutions are . and who is Qn campus, · however, that ~mipowered by them is. n~t ~s professes an understantl1ng of' n~portant as the secure feehn~ 1t what js going on with · · th(l gtv~s us to. know that the.re . 1~ a constitutions. This group should pob~y-makmg. group that.•~ alive be wat~hed closely and. carefully and well. It. ts also exc1tmg to because anyone who understands know that 1f y~u search hard the . ll.lYriad of col:fip!exiti~s enough, you m1ght tu~n up a Brain by MATT BRIEF' J. am a candidate. Elect rne. I'm for the College community, <;ohesive, fun, intellectual, unprejudiced, nice, happy, and all other complimentary · adjectives listed in Webster~s College Dictionary. Allow me to clue you in on some of the great plans that will elevate Union from the small liberal arts proletariat to an educational and social Utopia. My frrst program concerns the revered Nott \Nipple\ Memorial. Here are the first two steps ofmy plan: I) Take out a one-million dollar. insurance policy on the N oti:. Memorial, 2) Blow it up. Then collect the extra million and devote it to areas on this campus that really need help. We can bring in Billy Martin to coach the baseball . team and lure Johnny Wooden out of retirement to head the Gamet hoopsters. To aid Ned Harkness and his hockey program, we can steal Denis Potvin and ''Chico\ Resch from the Isianders, paying them to quit and then giving them schola:rships to attend Union. We will have lost nothing and added several valuable assets to our athletic protram, and after all, that's where it's at for a liberal arts college; ask Dr. Bonner. member of one oJ these institutions. A second advantage of such a scandal is that it provides a relevant and teal example .l)f government· at work. The constit1,1tional crisis is a blessing for social science majors yearning for relevancy. Political science students can study the correct procedures employed in changing governments. History D,lajors will exclaim how this transition compares with the Glorious Revolution or the Franco- Prussian War. Those interested in sociology can examine the manner in which scandals are ignored by those whom they directly affect. Surely what has .i~~al WQ..l!~d be signing :petitions in , the maill'oom so everyone woJild happened here in recent weeks know each other in a matter of will be the subject of numerous days. law review articles and countless One final note is of greater professional publications. importance than all the others. Another advantage of the That such a conflict can ex:ist is current crisis is that the right to neither disgusting nor immoral. petition grievances against the Constitutions are ambiguous, and government has been affirmed overzealous students can at titnes once more. It makes me proud to get carried away with what they be an American ·when l see the are doing. That nobody cares plethora of petitions being about the whole affair is an circulated and enthusiastically obscene gesture on the part ofthe signed by students who do not students. Granted, it is acceptable understand what they are signing, that students have better things to but are more concerni:ld that the do with their time than worry fundamental right to complain is about governing institutions. But being protected. Besides this even apathy has its limits and the significant function, petitions are line must be drawn somewhere. It an excellent method of getting to is my contention that the meet new people. The' Utopian somewhere is here. Promises, Promises or ••• Smile, You're on Candidate Camera Of course I realize the need for a Fine Arts building on this campus. The · inclusion of the Fine Arts is nearly as important as a competitive, winning Athletic Department. Her.e then is my plan to develop a fine Fine Arts building at a reduced cost. Turn the doubles in South, West, and Webster' into triples, thereby eliminating the need for one large dorm namely Davidson. Subsequently, at a reduced cost, we can convert Davidson into the Fine Arts building. Now I would like to reveal my master plan. For convenience we shall ca11 it the Medford Plan. As we know, the increase in tuition now makes us the· bound. Howard Hugbes of small liberal Finally, we all know tuition arts col1eges. However, Tufts, shall be increased at a 27.5% rate from which at least half of you ·hike. If elected, I promise Union were rejected, is in· dire financial will be 27.5% better as a college. straits. Union's biggest problem There will be 27.5% more work, may be the cultural vacuum that parties, faculties, students,. and Schenectady represents. Tufts in addition, Dean Smith will grow nestles in Medford, a small 27.5% in height and play center picturesque · suburb outside for the Bosto::-. Celtics. ln return, Boston. Thus, Union will -buy Dave Cowens will become Dean Tufts' location in Medford for a of Students. cool five million and two Thafs my platform. Elect me professors to be named later. and your wildest dreams will . Then we will move to Medford come true (bordello in the and Tufts can have Sdienectady. Student Center). Does anybody When you're rich, you get what have any babies to kiss? How you want - that's the American about an ass? way. Union shall be. Bostpn- Excerpts from an Hugh Sidey Speaks Interview with Hugh Sidey Kissinger on foreign policy. Are the · White House people out to get Kissinger? by .lACK PITNEY The following are excerpts rom an interview conducted on \1ay 15 with Hugh Sidey. Do· Presidents grow in offiee? l think the notion that you get character change in office is wrong. I think these guys are There's nobody who knows why or how some. tpings happened in there .but Ri~'hard Nixon; but there's got to be some measure. And in the case Qf Richard Nixon, you can assume he's going to lie to you. You've got to jump to conclusions, so yoU've got to rely on some of that. The same idea, but here, I think, they coincide. Ford and Kissinger aren't that far apart in most things, really ... I talked with Kissing;er this morning and he said tHat Ford, on nine o'clcck Monday morning, when he first talked to Ford about it, Ford said we've got to ·do something. ' It'd be abnormal if they weren't Kissinger is a strong successful man and they always breed enemies like flies. IJ'as tbe President's foreign policy power been diminished by the Vietnam debade? Sure. And wisely so. Vietnam was a private war, decided on by personal whim. . formed by the time they get t~ere. 1 think what happens is there are parts of their personality''that we are unfainiliar with, even some abilities that they have that they haven't used. The office is so diverse and demanding that they either begin to exercise some of \We finally beginning to get a glimpse of Wallace. ·On questions of foreign policy, you're beginning to see what a shallow ignoramus he is.\ .. Are Ford's recent !Hlssions with intelleetuals just publicity gimmicks? No. I think Ford's a man, even . jf of limited ability, of a genuine open mind. I think the economic program is evidence of that ... That's not part· of the Ford with Lyndon Johnson. These two fellows were' both abnormal men. Does Gerald Ford have some •& in the case of Richard b&sic character flaws? Th.e results ate not out on Ford Nixon, you can assume yet. Who knows? Ford's a decent he's going to lie to you ... man as far as I know ... Yes, I same with Lyndon think he's flawed as ·all of them Johnson. These two are ... We've just been through fellows wete both ~w~ days (of the Ma~aguez b 1 , \\ mc1dent) and the unravelling of a norma men~ this will be quite fascinating. And this or we begin to perceive it. Do you think \psyeho-history\ is worthwhile? Sure do. Yes, 1 don't think there's any other way to tackle some of thege p~oblems. l think ·with Nixon, here's a classic case. -.---. -~~ ... so far, it looks like Ford did quite welL That was his kind ·of decision; it was a traditional Cold War response ... The National Security Council functioned for the first time since Eisenhower's dnys. How mueh of the deeision was , KissmgerTs? Certainly this is Kissin$er's Tuesday night they worked out the scenario, but they had not theology. He's for small deficits, if worked out the time. The any ... I even suspect that if you problem was they had to get force look deep enough, you'll find into the area ... and Wednesday at Gerry Ford with deep doubts five o•ciock they bad everythipg in about Social Security. Can Ford win in '76? ~~ ' Does Ford receive his foreign- Yeah. the point of it is that the poliey advice from Kissinger opposition is so dismal. A sitting alone? President has all the advantages. Number one, the President is If the economy recovers ... this the foreign policy man. (But) I will go a long way toward helping don't say for one moment that him. He'll be tough to beat unless this incident makes Ford a great you get somebody like Kennedy. foreign policy man. 1 could tell We're finally beginning ~o get a you too many anecdotes where glimpse of Wallace. On questions Ford is suddenly confronted by of foreign policy, you'.re an ambassador and has to gesture beginning to see what a shallow Kissinger over to talk about it ignoramus he is. He is. He's because he doesn't know ... I stupid. He doesn't understand think it's very disturbing that complex issues at all and I think counsel onlv comes throu.gh he's going to go d-. Continued from l-~&ge l not an original thinker ... But Ford has r~turned a degree of trust to the Presidency.\ Sidey concluded that the end of Watergate permits us to \'turn with some degree of resolution and intelligence toward the future (and) emerge stronger than ever. Sure it's a hazardous and sometimes doubtful trade that I'm in, but it does hold the promise of profound hope.\ Attention all graduating seniors: If you have applied to Jaw sebool~ it would be appreciated if you could dr«>p illto the Political Science ofllee and fill out a simple questionnaire fol' the Pre-Law .society. This information is necessary for the eompilation of a P're-.Law Handbook wbicb will be published in the fall. Please help out your fellow students by spendin3 a few minutes iii completiag this fOI'm and returning it to Mrs. Kozol as soon as pos511Jie. Thank you for your coopemtioo. i ',

Page4 Steven R. Bussolari, a senior from West Hartford, Conn., majoring in mechanical engineering, has won first prize in the annual ASME Region III Mechanical Engineering Student Conference Competition. Bussolari submitted an independent research project, .. Pulsatile Flow Testing of Aortic Valve Prostheses.\ He was judged on the effectiveness of the organization of his material and on his personal presentation. Bussolari's project is part of a major research study on aortic valves being directed by Prof. J. Richard Shanebrook, Chairman of the Mechanical Engineering Department under a $26,000 grant from the Engineering Foundation. Hockey Recruiting Successful Hockey AII~Stars Harkness bas said \we will have a primarilx freshmen team. Those recruited and those who have played on the club hockey team will make up the nucleus of our club.\ Of the twenty recruits, seven are from provinces in Canada, six are from the Boston area, three are from Detroit, two from Buffalo, and one each from Ithaca and Li~!letown, Colorado. There is also the possibility of \wa1k on\ players from the original one-hundred and twenty- five applicants earning a position. Among the mostoutstandingof Union's newly acquired stickmen is Kevin Kardos of Michigan, who, as a high school senior, led the 11ation in scoring with 70 goals and 55 assists. Grant Judd from Michigan is another top prospect who last year scored 61 goals accompanied by 40 assists. Looking to the goaltenders spot, Union has a most promising player in Steve Baker. Steve played for Arch Bishop Williams in Boston. He, like the others, was highly sought after by many Division I schools such as the· University of Pennsylvania and St. Lawrence, but has chosen to come to Union. 24 Game Schedule Union will not ease into a hockey program, but rather will move swiftly into a schedule containing many of the top contenders in Division II. Coach Harkness has already established a twenty-four game schedule. We will be playing schools such as Cortland, Brockport, Merrimack, Boston State, Salem State, Plattsburgh State, Middlebury, and the University of Buffalo. Union will also play several Canadian schools, including McGill and the Royal Military College, one of the top Canadian college hockey teams. AU of these schools are established and respected in Division II and Union will be out to prove itself against some of the most competitive teams around. .. Competing against well- established clubs with a freshmen team might create problems, since we l;lre playing the best in Division II\ says Harkness. \We are playing competitive Division II teams to see whether or not we are capable of going into -Division I.\ Harkness apparently feels we are capable since plans are already being made to schedule games with Oivision I teams in Continued from Page I our secQnd season. Harkness states, \We are looking to such schools as Elmira, UVM, and The University of Pennsylvania.\ Facility for All While the main concern is obviously to establish and perpetuate a winning hockey tradition at Union, Coach Harkness has 'expressed a deep concern that the rink be used extensively for intramural and community activities. Said Harkness recently, \Achilles Rink will be one of the finest facilities of its kind in the country. I expect it to become the center of recreational, social, and cultural life on campus, a~ weH as the home of our hockey team.\ Harkness hopes to establish a varied intramural program which will be handled by Gale Knull and Dave Sanderson: He would also like to see a strong club hockey program set up to allow those who do not make the team an . opportunity 'to play competitive hockey on a college level. A Curling Club will be formed under the direction of Jonathan Pearson, Director of Alunmi Affairs. who Harkness says in \one of the fmest Cu:r'lers in the Northeast\. The tink will of. course be __ open to the campus community imd the community at large for free skating. Gym class€:$ will be offered in figure .skating and a Youth Hockey program wiJl be implemented. Achilles Rink promises to be a widely and extensively used facility and its doors win open at 5 am and not close until 2 am. All on Schedule Sometime in October, Achilles Rink will be completed and the hockey schedule will stait in the latter part ofN ovemberwith a few exhibition games. Our first Division II game will come December 2nd when we play Cortland on the road. On December 5th we fact the team of Royal Military College in the first home game on Achilles ice. Napear on T.-v. Television and radio interviews of Peggy Napear made while she was on the campus during Parents' Weekend are scheduled to be broadcast on WRGB-TV, Channel 6. Jim Williams inte_rviewed Ms. Napear, author of Brain Child. Two segments, each over three minutes long, will be televised on 6:00 p.m. NBC News programs Wednesday and Thursday. The Albany Medical College's educational radio station recorded Ms. Napear's talk Saturday morning in Strauss Lounge; sponsored by the Women's Caucus. Producer George Marriott also interviewed her. The o~e-hour· program constructed from these tapes will be aired by WAMC-FM, and will be offered to the I 77 Qther educational radio stations in the country. Brain Child was published by Harper & Row last year. The \mother's diary\ vividly describes how. her daughter, Jane, overcame major .physical and mental disabilities so that now; ten years late..-, Jane has no learning disabilities, speaks in \sentence language\ and is taking ballet lessons. The Union College Bookstore and five other bookstores in Schenectady, Albany and Glens Falls now stock Brain ChiJd. Russian to Speak On Wednesday, May 21st at 8:00 p.m. in Strauss Lounge Professor Yuri Glazov of Boston College will lecture on \Intelligentsia of Russia Through the Eyes of Americans.\ On Thursday, May 22nd at 10:30 a.m. in Humanities 115 Professor Gl~ov will talk on .. Pasternak and Solzheni~syn\ as part of the course on Literature of Dissent in the Soviet Union. All are welcome. ' Professor Yuri Gl~ov Was a professor of Dravidian Linguistics at Moscow University and the Senior Editor for the State Publishing of Foreign Dictionaries in the USSR. In 1968 he was expelled from both the Acadet:ny of Sciences and Moscow University for having signed · protest letters, specifically the · \Appeal of 12 Soviet Intellectuals· against the Suppression of Human Rights in the Soviet Union.''· t • • ·.... ' • ~ • • • ~· t 't t -., • ' .... \'j< BLITHER UNI9N RUTHER SENlORS: GraduatiQn announcements are in; pick them up at the Stu~ent Activities Office.* * * * Linebacker was distributed last Friday. Cgpies might still be available in the Library or in the Student Activities Office, If not, RA's :have copies. * * \' * lhe Department of Psycho~ogy is currently conducting its· third-year evaluation of Professor Philip R. Newman. • Members of the Co!Iege community who wish to contribute to these eva,luations are :invited to forward their remarks in writing to Professor C. W. Huntley, Chairman, ,Pept .. of Psychology. FQr the slimmer Private room in faculty home on campus in ret1,1rn for taking care of the house and lawn. See Mrs. Huntley, North College. * * * * Mountebanks are scheduling a trip t~ the Shakespeare Theatre in Stratford, Conn. on June 7 to . King Lear, with Morris Carnovsky. Tickets are $5.00 good orchestra seats. An exceUent production, but the number of seats available is limited. For further .Jt·llorrn.ation; check notice board in the Green Room, Nott Memorial, can 6T28. * * * * Lost: One male cat. Black with silver tiger-like · stripes, ye. llo ... w e_Yes,. red~-, ish leat~er col. h1r. with. silver .stud. s, Moonshme. If . ;QU see hun,_ P.lease .contact Gmger Hobart, 312 fox, 370-6- 24 .. · · · · . . · * * * * Affair Wanted: If interested please call 370-6416. only .. Will share expenses. 4 . * * * * Male Wanted: Qualifications: none. References desired. interested call 370-6602. * * * * Congratulations to Armon R. Benny, Delta Upsilon, and his wife, proud parents of a son, Michael Armon, born May 19, 1975. * * * * Protect Your Valuables: Have yout name permanently etche<l ~not engraved) for a nominal fee on all valuables \\'~\'•• as TV's. stereos, typewriters, or anything else that has smooth metal surface. The professional quality of the etc.hmg .• allows names to be .put on areas which can be easily seen. It impossible to remove the mark without destroying surface. If interested, contact Peter Berick at Potter Ho1,1se (346-9735). To see a sample, see Peter or Chris (21 Davidson). * * * * The .Union College Amateqr Radio Society, W2liC, meets at its statio1.1 in Haskins Lab (adjacent to the greenhouse) every Thursday night at 7:15., Meeting~; feature short wave ~ communications, radio teletype, Morse cede, and radio theory instruction :fOr prospective licensees. The r.adio theory discussed is applic;;1ble and valuable to p~rsons seeking commercial licenses. All 'interested students are invited to attend. For further information, call Rich Barnett, 6501. · * * * * Humble apologies from the Film Committee to all who saw the Friday night showing of The Conversation. Thanks to the company from which this film was rented, the order of che four reels was incorrect.- They were shown in the order I, 3, 2, 4. This was not corrected by the projectionist because no one in the audience brought it to his attention. Did anyone notice? * * * * I an ··---- I Send for your 1 Studen.t I.D.Card and enJoY I special rates at . 1 Hilton Hotels and Inns coast I to coast. (Grad students 1 and faeulty, too.) Just mail this. coupon I to Hilton Hotels fulfillment Dept .. , Suite 200 • 205 So. Beverly Drive. Beverftt Hills. CA 90212. I Nam I Addr~es-.~~~------~~~---------- 1 I CitY, . . I I :XIIlTIR. ····--·-··· - State .. 2ip. _____ _ R I t I

... -\'_ ' CONCORDIENSIS, Wednesday, May 21, 1975 PageS . ~ Teaching or Perish? by JUDY DEIN and LEE RIMSKY This is the second in a series of articles concerned with the issue of \PUblish or Perish\ at Union Cp/lege. The three professors interviewed, Roth, Jonas, and Reece, are all senior, tenured faculty members and have served on the Salary, Promotions, and Tenure Committee during this actlflemic year. As tenured faculty committee members they were all involved in making tenure decisiqns for their fellow faculty. Personal interviews were conducted with all three professors. In the opinion of Professors consi(lered to be more applicable Roth, Jonas, and Reece, the term to the situation here. Along with \Publish or Perish\ is a .gross the idea of the importance of oversimplification of the situation teaching, all three professors cited that exists at Union. It is ab~o a the necessity of research, or biased term and, consequently, scholarly work on the part of often causes much damage. Each faculty members. While research felt tl:lat altho\lgh there is no may be considered hatmful to written; specific, criteria for te;tching in that it takes time away determining tenutability at from students, all three stated Union, many aspects of a that ·they believe the c;~pposite is professofs participation and true. Research is vital to stimulate performance are considered, and a professot and keep him. from no decision is cut and dried. becoming bored with his work: Terms such as \teachirrg. or As Professor Jonas stated, \No perish\ or \the necessity of teacher, however great, will staying academically alive\ were remain a te!)cheJ; unless he remains active in his discipline and research.\ Professor Roth stated that some studies have been done at other colleges where students rated faculty members; the results were that the finest professors turned out to have done the most scholarly work. More Definitions The professors all agreed in part with Provost Enteman's distinction •between research and · p1,1blication. They all felt, however, that a more specific definition of research · was necessary. Prof. Jonas said that a person is involved in research when he·>is \in some way or other actively involved· with the su]:)ject matter of his discipline.\ While Jonas said that research should be potentially publishable,. he later stated that the relevance of ·the research to teaching was not always in the material that was being investigated but that the act of studying a topic in depth was necessary because it \keeps sharpening your own awareness of the process with which you interpret or use anything.\ Prof. Roth substituted the term \scholarly activities\ for research (the latter forming a subset of the former). Scholarly activities are \original or creative contributions to a discipline\ and can include astlite supervision of advanced research students where the faculty member is not doing the actual research but is, just as importantly, offering guidance. Manfred Jonas reading his favorite editor. (photo by Mike Marks) Professor Reece stated that· researching an esoteric a.rea does not add to a professor's ability to teach, and that professors should be ·rewarded for research only when they can prove that their research is relevant to, and thus might improve, th~.~ teachillg._. _ The opportunities to publish differ in every discipline and, consequently, whHe most publication may be scholarly, publication is far from being the only measure of scholarly work. Those interviewed felt that a need to examine all the research done by faculty, and not only their .publication, exists. As members of the SPT Committee, all three stated emphatically that someone who couldn't teach would never survive at Union, whether they were published or not. Non- publishing faculty, on the other hand, often do get tenure. Professor Roth stated that faculty were correct in assuming scholarly accomplishments were important here at Union; the misconceptions lie in equating publication with scholarly work. While the faculty should be aware ·of what is expected of them in terms of research, the possibility of formulation of specific criteria seems slim. Not only do situations vary from one department to another, but they vary between faculty members. Consequently: while a general written policy may be helpful, a detailed document is not only difficult to compose, but may be \more mischievous than advantageous. •• Constitution Questions Resolved PFofessor Roth: Chairman of the Salary, Promotion and Tenure Committee. (photo by Mike Marks) Study This s~ummer on the 100-acre sylvan campus at Union Collee:e founded 1795 at SChenectady, N.Y. Near vaution centers: Saratoga Spa, Lake George, Adirondacks, Albany, Tanglewood and Jacobs Pillow. The 1975 Union College ~ummer School ~ffers both undergraduate and graduate studies in: tlberal and Theatre Arts, Sciences, Engineering, Environmental Studies, Industrial Administration and Management {lAM), Operations Research; eight Engineerin2 Insti- tutes m cooperati()n with ASCE and General Electric Co.; Relief Print Making; and for Teachers: Master of Science courses each equivalent to five credits. Sessions: evenings or mornings, starting June 16 and continuing for six, seven or eight weeks; also second IAM session, July 28 to Sept. 5. The ~5 courses are open to both men and women. The small classes will be taught by regular faculty members and by visiting professors. ·Design of Union's Summer School is to help students accelerate their college degree progrsms, and, to provide an opportunity for professionals to advance toward their career goals. (Colleges give credit for work at Union's Summer School.) College-bound students may register only for one course. Tuition-reimbursement may be arranged by veterans with the VeteransAdministration. Campus Benefits Include: residence halls for students and their spouses (at $5 to $7 per night, weekends); free parking; 300,000 volume Schaffer Library; 20-acre Jackson's Gardens; Swimming pool; ten tennis courts; gym and athletic fields; ,campus bookstore; Mounte- banks Theatre-in-the-round.; art studios; concert halls. For informational booklet, please state . your field o.f interest and write to; Dean. Union College Summer School, one Union Ave.; Scheneetady. N .Y; l230S; telephone: 518/370·&288. Continued from Page 1 accepted by all present. · Jeff Broomes initially disagreed with the concept of a \vote of confidence\ but yielded on this point of contention when several participants in the discussion noted the growing consensus vis- a-vis the compromise. The meeting adjourned when it was decided that the compromise clause would be written into the Constitution replacing the Jr. Representative and Trustee clauses. With this new clause included, no one retained serious objections to the Constitution and it was assumed that after the gathering of 600 signatures the document would be approved. The new clause reads as follows: Ollring the first election Flor-entine. . Rest a ur·ant 108 Jay Street En,joy our Italian-American ·Cuisine at Reasonable Prices Specialty of the House . ..,.. Veal UI'Jion College Students · AJwavs Welcome .. _ . . !11-!lllllllllilntmliii_II.UUII§ - = ! ALGllR ~ I LIQUOR 'j i CENTER I I ~ ·1' 751 Eastern Ave. i · 346-SlSt 1 LOWEST PRICES I AI,.I.:OWEJ' IN ~.Y. STATE following the adopting of these Amendments, there shall be two separate votes of confidence taken. The members of the Jr. class must vote to extend the duties of the present two Jr. Representatives to include membership in the All-College Senate. The members of the Student Body must vote to extend the duties of the Jr. Trustee to. include membership on the All- College Senate. A \yes\ vote will be a majority of those voting. If the trustee or Jr. class Reps. are rejected to sit on the Senate, the Student Forum ~nd Elections Committee shall supervise elections to the All-College Senate in the fall. It was further suggested that in Newe$t .Lunch 715 ALBANY ST. ..................... -· ........ 5I,... ........ ..,..... ................... \!' ... .. ., - -- Milt .... ... ...... \ m .,~,..J· We 'In ... 7 ..,. ..... - ...... .. .... Yllll Nn'llll ...... Gee!~ .... ....... ·~~Student Discount' Mon.nSat. 5:30· 7:30 535 NO'l'T. ST. · the best interests of the students, the Constitution rule that requires the passage of two weeks before an amendment may take effect be waived. This deviation from Constitution procedure was justified by the argument that it was the spirit of the law that should be followed rather than the letter. Since all moral issues were now resolved, the best interests of students would be served by speedy implementation of the Constitutional Amendment. In the next few days, the new Constitution will be widely circulated in an effort to familiarize the Student Body with the document. The presentation to the Steering Committee of a petition with 600 signatures in support of the new Constitution will allow its ratification prior to upcoming elections on Tuesday. ~-- GEORGE'S t MUSIC STORE 1 Student Discounts sea State St. FOR .AND WINE T~ Jrlce. li>$tein's .......... ..,. ......

Page6 CONCORD!£NSIS, Wednesdqy, May 21, 1975 The Brethren and Pledges of- OM:ICRON DELTA ··\' -:· __ <_ .: • •••••• • ,, ~- _,...... ---· -----. -- - . . ---- .. . . ...... --- ···- __ .,...... -- . . . - ......... - .. ~----...~----- -~. -- --- ..... ·-- . ~ -··-····~-·~··~\'<' ~-- ··~···••..,•••~-~··.......,~ -~ •• .. , .. .....,.....,....,...,.__..,.,.,.,.,.......,.....,...,~.,........,,...,.......,\\\\\'.'~''•....-<\~V•~••............_~_.,w•••~···-..,..,~~...,..,..--,,~~,,,,.,~t·•O••;-:-';':-:•~-\~~··-·· -·· ~~~\\:\\\''\\\T\''~............ .......... .....,...,~\\'\\\'~''-.... • Hr;diord Ko;;;hhng Pr.-:~i<h:n! . . [ _ .. ___ ,. __ ... _ ... _ .. ___ ·. I I i i . l ; l ; ,-..._.._, l . ~ I 1 ! i l L----~ --·- ... ~-·-;-·· -_~,)!:.tph :-.1 vrphy Social Chairman . ' :- ~-,-~- . ·-· ,_~..,.-- . -~ ·: . .- ... -:-; ' ·' .. , will appe.ar in PLEDGES '; ! i i i '. A New Play b·y Ted Snowdon Present·ed by The New American Playwri.gh.ts Program and The Mountebanks \Pledges\ is not about fratern_ity life. Set in 1965, \Pledges\ depicts the interactioJJ, between the brothers and pledges of the fictional Omicron Delta fraternity and focuses on the, dilemma of the individual in a closed social enviromnent. - May 23, 24, 25, 27,28,29,30 ' Nott Memorial f,heater 8:00PM Box Offic.e- call 370--6153 May 27, 28 ... Free Beer Afte·r Performance . .

Page 6 0 ' ·-· i l : i i I CONCORDIENSIS, Wednesday, May 21, 1975 The Brethren and Pledges of OMICRON DELTA -· --- --\'\'\ r l ! I I I I • I I ' ' ! i i I I I g ,;,f.' lf~l r.~. ,I-:~ '- j>jr_ .• ,;,·.' l . l L_ _________ j l,l·,· r! \~::· r·,, \\',, :, ~I ( · \' _, ~·ruE' 1!165 H':P·.trP:n ~h.dt' l rc,t,Lrcr ~ J . . • . -~~·· -·~ -- 1 - ---- ~ - .. --.,.._........ 'i 'l !L- .... ------- -- .;......- •<# -- -~ _,_, __ - will appear in PLEDGES A New Play by Ted Snowdon Presented by The New American Playwrights Program and The Mountebanks \Pledges\ is not about fraternity life. Set in 1965, \Pledges\ depicts the interaction between the brothers and pledges of the fictional Omicron Delta fraternity and focuses on the dilemma of the individual in a closed social environment. May 23, 24, 25, 27,28,29,30 Nott Memorial Theater 8:00PM Box Office- call 370-6153 May 27, 28 - Free Beer After Performance I~

1975 library • Faculty art 1n Professor Nina Rosenblum\s work entitled \Brother and Sister on Porch Steps;\ Recoras: by BILL TALIS The Union College Faculty Art Show, on display at the Shaffer Library from now through June 13, dramatically reveals the intellectual diversity, emotional outlook, and talent within the Arts Department. The works include those of Ptofessors Nina Rosenbl~m,. Charles Steckler, Arnofil Bittleman, and Robert Moorhead. · One of the highl\ghts of the display is· an oil painting by Professor Rosenblum of a brother and sister on the· porch steps of their house in Mones~en, Pennsylvania. The painting makes dramatic use of color and space, in featuring a poverty area adjacent to the mechanized apparatus of the coal mining industry looming behind the house. The painting was done as a project revealing life in a mining town. Professor Rosenbh1m explains her intent as ''tbe relation of a heroic people to a devastating environment.\ In her paintings she vividly- portrays the Chick Corea: progression into electronic jazz, by MEL RODRIGUEZ Throtigh<)lit his career as a RTF's most recent albuml No synthesizer as a solo vehicle. Particularly noteworthy are Corea's \Celebration Suite\ and Al Dimeola's .. Flight of the Newborn.\ These four ex.cellent musicians promise to provide a memorable and exciting concert Saturday night in Memorial Chapel. conflict ot people and how they are forced to live under the impact of industrializll.ti()n. Lonesome Schenectady Another of her works reveals a familiar scene of a downtown street . in Schenectady, but captures the barren feeling and lonesomeness of the city that might otherwise be unnoticed by a passing motorist or pedestrian. Professor Bittleman~s works include India ink drawings and prints, which at first glance appear to :be nature scenes. Upon more serious examination, they reveal hidden scenes of fantasy. His use of receding space in ••Babel,\ done in pen and ink, connotes a sense of horror and mystery, as the contents of some areas in space are darkened and obscured, while other areas are made distinct. This work feattues hands emerging from shrubbery and a building structure taking the appearance of a Bal>ylonian ziggurat, partially obs£ttred by the trees. Surrealist Works Professor Steckler has on display a striking collage, the \Galileo Suite.\ His works are a combination-theatre design, utilizing vivid imagery and ·imaginative theatre sets, giving added dimension to his collages, and thus, a surreal sensation. Professor Moorhead's works include surreal sculpture and fantasy pieces. A sculpture of a head with antennae protruding from it gives the viewer an eerie feeling, compounded by the fact that no eyes are defined in the sculpture. Rather, the eye .sockets are deeply concave and smoothly moulded, conveying the impression that the figure is staring out in all directions. Varied Talent Professor Moorhead's \Diagonal Transformations,\ an acrylic on canvas, is of brilliant colors and contrasts markedly with the more subtle color blendings of other works in the gallery. The faculty display stands as proof of the talented and varied interests and attitudes of the faculty. Although the Arts Department at Union is rather small, there · is much to offer students, and the Department is well balanced in terms of art styles. The display in the gallery is a pleasure to vi~w. musician and performer €hide. Mystery, while following in the Corea has worked almost same musical vein as their exclusively within the realm of previous album, is musically more modern jazz. His two most re.cent . eclectic and diverse than albums have reflected a transition WHIKYB. The title song, \No that ·has occurred in much of Mystery.\ is a superb acoustic modern jazz in the past few years composition with each member of to an electronically based, less the band playing off one another's esoteric brand of music that · .. Interplay\ is a similar work for incorporates some elements of acQustic pian.o __ and bass, with rock music. Corea and bassist Clarke trading Where Have I Known -You off riffs. Drummer Lenny White's Befe>rt.~, Return To Forever's first ·-sophistifunk\ is. a very different album with guitarist AI DiMeola, and very electronic composition is a prirnt: iilustration of this new that requires numerous listenings progression in modern jazz. The to fully appreciate. On two of the majority of tunes are songs, .. Jungle Waterfall\ and compositionally complex and \Stanley Clarke's Dayride,\ one rhythmically varied electric jams can discern a slight but that provide a· showcase for perq:ptible difference from the soloing by each member. These rest of the album where the band works, such as \Vulcan World~,\ can be heard. to be playing ~'The Shadow of Lo,\ and \Song simpler and more commercially To. The Pharoah Kings,\ also enjoyable music tinged with a bit represents Corea's first extended of funk. The remainder of the use of the synthesizer. The album album is given to complex electric also includes three short but songs more along the lines of beautiful compositions for solo WHlKYB, with Corea again acoustic piano. making extensive use of the Flamenco guitarist Friday . . Coffee House Student Night a success On Friday, May 16, the .Union College Coffeehouse presented a student night featuring Les Goldstein and .. Mel Rodriguez and the Runs.\ Admission was free. The show opened up with Goldstein, whn entertained both on gUitar and piano. tbe audience joined Les vigorously i_n a . chorus of \Honky Tonk Women.\ In addition to this, Les brought up two guest _stars: .John Knudsen and Brad Barry. Knudsen and Goldstein sang some Simon and · Garfunkel songs; they harmon~zed almost perfectly. Barry and Gold.stein played trumpet and g}litat duets with a jazzy New Orleans sound. . , The height of the evening came with the second set: Mel Rod.rigue:i and the Runs. TheY were better than ever before. Their set opened with Bob Field; gradually all the members of the -group came. on, expat?-ding the group's talents and abilitie~ Tb,eir sound ranged from that of Tom Paxton to Paul Simon to the Jefferson Airplane. With two guitars, a piano, and pedal-steel guitar, plus the voices of the performers, Mel Rodriguc:;z. and the Runs had a full ' semi- professional sound. . Special to Concordiensis Flamenco Guitarist Juan de la University in 1965. In 1966, he that I conceive. Moulding that Sierra will appear at the Union was awarded a French world in my hands is the most qollege Coffeehouse on Friday, Government Grant to study in beautiful thing that 1 can do.\ May 23. He has played France and moved there to attend throughout Western Europe and· the Universite. de Tours from is currently touring Western New 1966-1968. During ti!_ese two England. His style evokes the years Jonathan continued to genius of ·the master Ramon appear as soloist in France and to Montoya. Included in the study with his teacher, Pepe program will be a series of De Ia Martinez, of Sevilla, Spain. · Sierra's own compositions such as This year, Jonathan will leave the moorish Zambra del the academic world for that of the Generalife, Nanas and the wandering minstreL He says, exciting Bulerias macarenas. ••There is a certain point in life Veterans of the Union when one must become comnrunity will remember the committed to an ideal and follow guitarist better as Jonathan it through to its perfection. The Throne, already a well-known guitar is my way of expressing for performing artist w~en he myself and to others the universe graduated, in 1963, as a Modern Languages major with a minor The Department of Economics is currently conducting third-year evaluations of Professors James Kenney, Carolyn Kent, 1 and Dwight Phaup. Members of the College community who wish to contribute to these evaluations are 'invited to forward their remarks in writing- to Professor Thomas R. Kershner, Chairman, Department of Economics. concentration in Philosophy. Jonathan was a me'mber of the track and cross-country teams for · three years, an experience he says changed his whole life and later served him well as track. and cross- country ski coach at Windham College in Putney, Vermont. Jonathan was a member of the Delta Chi fraternity, After graduation from Union, Jonathan obtained an M.A. in French Literature and Romance Ph·ilology f.rom Columbia SPECIAL----- AN EVENING OF KURT WEILL Directed by Rosie Mauro and Tim Doyle A major figwe in musical theatre, from pre- Nazi Germany to the Broadway stage of the late '30's and '40's, Weill is the composer of such successful musicals as The Threepenny Opera, The Rise and Fall of the City of Mabagony, I.ady in ~be Dark, One Touch of Venus and Lost in the Stars. Shows \'ill be Thursday, May 23: First show only. Friday, Ma.y 24 at 8:00 p.m. The shows on Friday at 10:00 p.m. and Saturday at 8:00 p.m. ha\'le been can~eUed. WINE, CHEESE AND BEER WILL BE SERVED!!' Admission- $1.00

.l CONCORDIENS/S, Wednesday, May 21, 1975 Pa e 7 Faculty art library Professor Ntna Rosenblum's work entitled \Brother and Sister on Porch Steps.\ Records: by BILL TAUS The Union College Faculty Art Show, on display at the Shaffer Library from now through June 13, dramatically reveals the intellectual diversity, emotional outlook, and talent within the Arts Department. The works include those of Professors Nina Rosenblum, Charles Steckler, Arnold Bittleman, and Robert Moorhead. One of the highlights of the display is an oil painting IDY Professor Rosenblum of a brother and sister on the porch steps of their house in Monessen, Pennsylvania. The painting makes dramatic l:lse of color and space, in featuring a poverty area adjacent to the mechanized apparatus of the coal mining industry looming behind the house. The painting was done as a project revealing life in a mining town. Professor Rosenblum explains her intent as \the relation of a heroic people to a devastating environment.\ In her paintings she vividly portrays the Ch,ick Corea: progression into electronic jazz by MEL RODRJ.GUEZ synthesizer as a solo vehicle. Particularly noteworthy are COFea's \Celebration Suite\ and AI Dimeola's \Flight of the Newborn.\ These four excellent musicians promise to provide a memorable and exciting concert Saturday night in Memorial Chapel. conflict ot people and how they are forced to live under the impact of industrialization. Lonesome Schenectady Another of her works reveals a familiar scene of a downtown street in Schenectady, but captures the barren feeling and lonesomeness of the city that might otherwise be unnoticed by a passing motorist or pedestrian. Professor Bittleman's works include India ink drawings and prints. which at first glance appear to be nature scenes. Upon more serious examination, they reveal hidden scenes of fantasy. His use of receding space in \Babel done in pen and ink, connotes a sense of horror and mystery. as the eontents of some areas in space are darkened and obscured, while other areas are made distinct. This work features hands emerging from shrubbery and a building structure taking the appearance of a .Babylonian ziggurat, partially obscured by the trees. Surrealist Works Professor Steckler has on display a striking collage, the \Galileo Suite.\ His works are a combination-theatre design, utilizing vivid imagery and imaginative theatre sets, giving added dimension to his collages, and thus. a surreal sensation. Professor Moorhead's works include surreal sculpture and fantasy pieces. A sculpture of a head with antennae protruding from it gives the viewer an eerie feeling, compounded by the fact that no eyes are defined in the sculpture. Rather, the eye sockets are deeply concave and smoothly moulded, conveying the impression that the figufe is staring out in all directions. Varied Talent Professor Moorhead's \'Diagonal Transformations,\ an acrylic on canvas, is of brilliant colors and contrasts markedly with the more subtle color blendings of other works in the gallery. The faculty display stands as proof of the talented and varied iRterests and attitudes of the faculty. Although the Arts Department at Union is rather smalt there is much to offer students, and the Department is well balanced in terms of art styles. The display in the gallery is a pleasure to view. Throughout his career as a musician and performer Chick Corea has worked almost exclusively within the realm of modern jazz. His two most recent albums have reflected a transition that has occurred in much of modern jazz in the past few years to an electronically based, less esoteric brand of music that incorporates some elements of rock music. Where Have I Known You Before, Return To Forever's first album with guitarist AI DiMeola, is a prime illustration of this new progression in modern jaz:z;. The majority of tunes are compositionally complex. and rhythmically varied electric jams that provide a showcase for soloing by each member. These works, such as \Vulcan Worlds,\ 'The Shadow of Lo,\ and \Song To The Pharoah Kings,\ also represents Corea's first extended use of the synthesizer. The album also includes three short but beautiful compositions for solo RTF's most recent album, No Mystery, while following in the same musical vein as their previous album, is musically more eclectic and diverse than WHIKYB. The title song, \No Mystery,\ is a superb acoustic composition with each member of the band playing off one another's \Interplay\ is a similar work for acoustic piano and bass, with Corea and bassist Clarke trading off riffs. Drummer Lenny White's \Sophistifunk\ is a very different and very electronic composition that requires numerous listenings to fully appreciate. On two of the songs, \Jungle Waterfall\ and \Stanlev Clarke's Dayride,\ one can discern a slight but perceptible difference from the rest of the album where the band can be heard to be playing simpler and more commercially enjoyable music tinged with a bit of funk. The remainder of the album is given to complex electric songs more along the lines of WHIKYB, with Corea again making extensive use of the Flamenco guitarist Friday acoustic piano. Coffee House Student Night a success On Friday, May 16, the Union College Coffeehouse presented a student night featuring Les Goldstein and \Mel Rodriguez and the Runs.\ Admission was free. The show opened up with Goldstein, who entertained both on guitar and piano. The audience joined Les vigorously in a . chorus of \Honky Tonk Women.\ In addition to this, Les brought up two guest stars: John Knudsen and Brad Barry. Knudsen and Gold stein sa.ng some Simon and Garfunkel songs; they harmonized almost perfectly. Barry and Goldstein played trumpet and guitar duets with a jazzy New Orleans sound. The height of the evening came with the second set: Mel Rodrigue?. and the Runs. They were better than ever before. Their set opened with Bob Field; gradually all the members of the group came on, expanding the group's talents and abilities. Their sound ranged from that of Tom Paxton to Paul Simon to the Jefferson Airplane. With two guitars. a piano, and pedal-steel guitar. plus the voices of the performers, Mel Rodrigu~z and the Runs had a full · semi- professional sound. Special to Concordiensis Flamenco Guitarist Juan de la Sierra will appear at the Union College Coffeehouse on Friday, May 23. He has played throughout Western Europe and is currently touring Western New England. His style evokes the genius of the master Ramon Montoya. Included in the program will be a series of De Ia Sierra's own compositions such as the moorish Zambra del Generalife, Nanas and the exciting Bulerias macarenas. Ve~erans of the Union community will remember the guitarist better as Jonathan Throne, already a well-known performing artist when he graduated, in 1963, as a Modern Languages major with a minor concentration in Philosophy. Jonathan was a me\mber of the track and cross-country teams for three years, an experience he says changed his whole life and later served him well as tract and cross- country ski coach at Windham College in Putney, Vermont. Jonathan was a member of the De Ita Chi fraternity. After graduation from Union, Jonathan obtained an M.A. in French Literature and Romance Philology from Columbia University in 1965. In 1966, he was awarded a French Government Grant to study in France and moved there to attend the Universite de Tours from 1966-1968. During these two vears Jonathan continued to ~ppear as soloist in France and to study with his teacher, Pepe Martinez. of Sevilla, Spain. This year, Jonathan will leave the academic world for that of the wandering minstrel. He says, \'There is a certain point in life when one must become committed to an ideal and follow it through to its perfection. The guitar is my way of expressing for myself and to others the universe that l conceive. Moulding that world in my hands is the most beautiful thing that I can do.\ The Department of Economics is currently conducting third-year evaluations of Professors James Kenney, Carolyn Kent, and Dwight Phaup. Members of the College community who wish to contribute to these evaluations are invited to forward their remarks in writing to Professor Thomas R. Kershner, Chairman, Department of Economics. SPECIAL---- / AN EVENING OF KURT WEILL Directed by Rosie Mauro and Tim Doyle A major figure in musical theatre, from pre- Nazi Germany to the Broadway stage of the late '30's and '40's, Weill is the composer of such successful musicals as The Threepenny Opera, The Rise and Fall of the City of Mahagony, l..ady in the Dark, One Touch of Venus and Lost in the Stars. Shows will be Thursday, May 23: First show only. Friday, May 24 at 8:00 p.m. The shows on Friday at 10:00 p.m. and Saturday at 8:00 p.m. have been cancelled. WINE. CHEESE AND BEER WILL BE SERVED!!\ Admission - $1.00

Page8 CONCORDIENSIS, Wednesday, May 21, 1975 The Candidates State Their Cases For Trustee todd earr The Board of Trustees is the highest level of the College hierarchy, allocating all funds for college spending. ln view of this, the position of st_udent trustee can be considered one of the most important positions of student government. As a student representative to the :Soard of Trustees, the student trustee serves to communicate issues, facts, and opinions to the College community as well as the Board. I feel that the position requires a great deal of activity, involving communication and time. The duties involve committee work within the Board as well as participation in general and executive meetings. I also feel that communication is among the most important of duties. The articulation of issues and dissemination of facts between both the College community and the Board is vital to the welfare of Union and its members. It is not necessary, or even possible, to make promises or to speak about issues, for they are unknewn at this time. It is, however, important to stress the student trustee's responsibility to the College community and to express the willingness to fulfill that responsibility to the utmost. lloyd sabersk.i It would be pompous to assert that any single person would have the correct answers to the problems facing Union College. Furthermore, it would be absurd to believe that any given individual would know all the problems, much less the answers. The College community, however. composed of diverse individuals with varying perspectives, cr,uld be effective in · this problem-solving process. Today at Union, one of these problems appears- to be communication. The Student Trustee could act as liaison between the individual and the decision-making process; a direct line carrying the problems, suggestions or solutions of any concerned person or group to .. The Powers that Be.\ If you will, an \Express ·line\ of communication leading to mutual understanding. Please vote for the Cohesive College Community Candidate for Student Trustee: Lloyd R. Saberski. mark massey My name is Mark Massey. I am a candidate for student trustee. My letter will not be long, nor will I promise to support any specific or individual issues as a campaign platform. Besides the fraternity of which I am a member, I hold no alliance to any group on campus. However, I am aware of each group's individual efforts· and their purpose and direction on campus. I have supported different groups when their cause or plight seemed realistically important. I would like to be a representative of the students, all the students, and change as the issues and perspectives of the students change. I have talked to the present Trustees and understand all of the functions and responsibilities assumed by a trustee. I do not claim to be a better candidate than any of the others running. I do however, feel that l have all the essentials for doing a complete job. The most important of these is the time to de:vote to the post since my otber commitments are few. I have to omit unnecessary garbage from this letter and give you an honest picture of my personality and ethics. These are my sincere thoughts, and, if you find them appealing, I would like to represent you through your vote and later with your support on the issues that confront the trustees. If you have any questions concerning the po$ition of Student Trustee, the duties or the responsibilities of the trustee to the .students, please feel free to call me at 372-9309. I am open for questions,\ criticism and suggestions... Again, thank you. glenn wolfson The Board of Trustees is the governing b.ody of Union College. They are responsible for the educational planning and allocations of funds that enable Union to survive as one of the finer small colleges in the northeast. This planning is obviously quite important for the benefit of the entire campus community, and it is particularly important that the views of the student body be adequately expressed to the Board. With a $450 increast; in tuition for the 1976-77 school year, the time has come for us to closely examine our budgetary priorities and attempt to hold these rising costs down. It . is very difficult to make concrete promises as to what I weuld do as a trustee because I have had only a few opportunities to discuss trustee matters. It is essential that a student Trustee be able to listen to opmwns expressed by other Trustees, learn along with them about the issues and then adequately express the feelings of the student body. With the completion of Carnegie Hall as a functioning Student Center and the building of Achilles Ice Rink. we can now move in the direction of acquiring funds for a new gymnasium and a performing arts center. My past experiences as Division Ill representative to the All-College Senate and Chairman of the Security Committee, have taught me a great deal about the workings of the College and they should help me to become a better student trustee. With less than a week to go before the election. I ask that if I am not able to meet you personally, please feel free to call me at 370- 6470 or stop by my room, 310 South, anytime of the day. I . would very much like to hear your comments and opinions and I hope that you will give me ~he opportunity to serve to the best of my ability as your junior class representative to the Board of' Trustees. · An Ad Hoc Committee has been convened to investigate the tenurability of Professor Donald Griesinger. Any members of the College community who wish to contribute information and/or opinions should eontad Prof. Hoffman (Steinmetz HaD, Rm. 201, Phone 370-6273). allison donenfeld A Trustee should be the voice of student opinion, the liaison between the student~ and the Trustee board, the person who expresses the desires and needs of the student body. Communication is of the essence when considering this position. Most of you know rne in regard to one campus · activity or another. 1 try to . be both interested and involved in our campus, and would like to become even more involved by being a student trustee. Robert Kennedy once said \Some people see things as they are, and ask why. I see things as they could be, and ask why not.\ I believe in his philosophy. Unfortunately, not enough people do. Union's student body can ~mly be as effective as you and I make it. Whether the issue be the creation of a fine arts center, or a new gymnasium complex, it is important to know ~ where the priorities of the students lie. I hope that my interest and participation in past activities will enable you to have the confidence in me, Jo express your wants, your thoughts, and your goals. ehris taylor The Board of Trustees .position represents a tremendous opportunity for involvement in the building-up and running of Union. Union is: a small college and has both its strengths and weaknesses as a result. The Trustee position doesn~t offer unlimited potenti!ll for changing the school, but it does offer· the chance to aid somewhat in reinforcing the strong points and minimizing the deficiencies. The position demands a lot 'of time and effort, but at the same time it gives a lot back as one of the most stimulating learning experiences available to a student here. The.re are a lot of reasons for running for a position like this, but the dominant ones here are the chance to gi.'.Ve somethins to Union; and gain, in return, experiences otherwise unavailable to the Union student. I've tried, and am trying to meet as many people as 1 can. For those of you who already know me, and think I'd do a good job, I'd like to encourage you to get out and vote Tuesday. I need your votes. For those of you who don't know me, or haven't met me, I'm trying to visit as many rooms as possible and hopefully I'IJ get to yours. At the same time, feel free to ask me any questions you may have. I live at 252 Fox and my .phone number is 346- 9527. , For President r.b. than riek williams My name is Rick Wiifiams; most know me as Piedmont. Last ·week I was tellfng a friend about my plans to run for Trustee when he made this ,comment: \You! A Trustee- yQu don't e:ven look like a Trustee.\ In a similar ~ituation another friend said: \Well at least you're qualified. Trustees have to be able to drink you know.'' Quite a few others chuckled or even laughed at the great joke. I must confess: When I first considered running for trw~tee last spring it was hugely becaus~ of the farcical po~sibilities. I anticipated a circus campaign and saw myself as a renegade trustee. I have since changed· mY attitude. Mo~;t of the governmental and represenU.tive positions at Union College are now occupied by • politicians. Whether they are student politicians, campus politicians or politicians-in- training they are still politicians. I decided to run for trustee, not as a lampooriist, but as a serious non-politician. However, a stance such as this causes a problem. How does a non-,politician get enough people to vote in order to be elec:ted, Since I refuse to join a postel:\ war and dislike the idea of bothering students in the library or their rooms I can think of only one alternative. l am going to establish campaign headquarters in the Rathskeller. 1 will be in the ·skeller every night from the publication of this statement until election day. Any student wishing to discuss, argue or bitch about anything relevant to the job of student trustee. or my candidacy w:ill be more than welcome. · The administration and the faculty do a fine job representing themselves to the trustees. Let's make sure that we, the final consumers of Union's product, · are.equally well represented. l)on't forget to vote. It doesn't have to be political. If Union College parallels the outside world in any manner, it would be the political facet of life. The student body has given its representatives a blank check to acquire for them those goals which are deemed important to an improvement of college life. It is time that we realize that the check has bounced. ability. My greatest concerns are'-----~------------­ Student government has stagnated here. It is no longer responsive to student wishes and needs, nor does it initiate programs or policies that deal with school and community problems. That the student body as a whole, through its apathetic non-involvement, should be blamed for the failure of their leaders to respond, is a fallacious belief. Student representatives should initiate if the college community does not and they should respond quickly and efficiently to student plaints and grievances. Unfortunately, this ·year ha .. seen problems on campus for students increase, but student leader.ship has failed to respond. The president of the student body has the power to turn stagnation into implementation if the right person is selected for the position. It is time for a change at the top; to start off the coming year with fresh leadership, initiative, and responsiveness. Andrew Jackson followed the belief that leaders of the nation should be rotated frequently to perpetuate innovative ideas. Thomas Jefferson felt that if the government did not meet the needs of the people, then the people had the right and responsibility to revolt. I am not asking for a revolution, hut for a chance- an opportunity to represent the student body to the best of my enough financial aid and jobs for the students, facilitating entrance into graduate and professional schools while at the same time alleviating Union's competitive nature. and increasing social activities here to the point where the lack of concerts will not be the major student gripe. I do not pretend to know the solution to these problems;. but I 9n and do promise that if elected president of the student body, l will do everything in m,·power to find solutions and eliminate student government as the major target for jokes on campus. brian tueker lfs funny how some people approach me around the campus wondering how I can be psyched for another year in office after already serving as Vice President of the student government; putting in a year of long hours, meeting after meeting, constant phone calls, and in general, being on 24-hour call in service to the College community. My honest answer is that I feel my contribution to the students is only half completed. If you can remember, I ran last year on a platform of concrete objectives: 1) promoting eff¢ctive use of Carnegie Center and trying to start a pub-restaurant within its walls; 2) creating real and tangible responsibilities for the College and student committees; and 3) trying to institute a more workable and representative government. Carnegie Center is finally taking shape as a student center. I have worked with Craig Carlson, Dean Smith and prospective contractors on a committee which is proud to announce it hopes for a completed pub by next fall. Secondly, as Chairman of the Committee on Committees, 1 have worked hard on the new committee structure, discarding dead wood, trimming off unproductive committees, setting up concrete objectives and responsibilities for each committee under the administration's .. Report on Student Life and Morale\ and generally. increasing efficiency and productivity within the committees by helping to create new committees and combining those which overlap. In response to point three, I have put quite a bit of effort into creating a new governmental structure which would allevia'te the lack of communication and cooperation concerning student and all College matters. I am very pleased that we have witnessed the new governance proposal pass the All College Senate and 1 believe we can expect a stronger and more representative government next ye~r. · This is why I am both excited and anxious to ser:ve the college community as President of the. Student Forum. But to make tllis year's hopes and expectations next year's realities, there exists an urgent need for an effective continuity of leadership in tllis transitional phase we are confronted with. And that is why I now ask you, not only as the voting public, but as felll)w students, to grant me the support needed in completing that task. ) f f

ed. ers of I il:d by • us I as us ce ly rs y I CONCORDIENSIS, Wednesday, May 21, 1975 Page9 ' The Candidates Continue to State Their Cases I Vice Pres·. Sec. Class of '77 mQrtin tagliaferro . . arn1e miteh mind.lln that ~ any other student here. Some of these problems have no definite solution, and others have a number of plausible l)olutions. Tl:)ese major decisions affect the entire college and influence virtually all the activities in which we partalce. Having spoken to various ad minis t r a tors, I have concentrated upon those issues which will be of greatest consequence to the students next year. These include: programs and decisions to further the goal of complete equality (i.e., regarding rights, facilities, etc.) for Union women,. behavior standards (concerning racism, anti-Semitism, etc.), the future of the Comprehensive Education program, possible revision of the cirriculum regarding vocational opportunities, budget decisions (i.e., rising costs of tuition, room and board, etc.; possible reduction in the number of courses from whcih students may select). calendar and grading revisions, etc~ There is, on titis campus, a The greatest hrtpediment to the Your missioll, Mr. f!iller, general lack of interest in student · · shoul<;i you decide. to accept it, is government. This stems from the feehng . of community spirit here . to get your~elf elected as belief that the goveming system at Union is ·the split between · Secretary of the student body at . entrusts :tittle power to the fraternity. and indr;:.pen<;lent Union College, Schenectady, N.Y. students. This does not students. The bringing tog· ether of • · · b h . If. In order tQ qualify yourself as a necessanly have to · e t e case. · these two factions will be my goal candidate for this prestigious an elected representative of the during my tenure in office. h f h office, it is incU:mbent tha,t you student!! as the .support o t ose As O'r;:xt year's pres~dent of ,the obtain the signatures of 200 students and has the desire to lnter-Ftaternity-Councill Will be fellow student&, in a manner work for change, the student in an instrumental position to consistent with all tules . 0 f governm(!nt can get things effect this goal. Additionally, if campaign etiquette~ This newly accomplished. elected to ·Vice President of the elevated position for which you T-he Steering Committee or the Steering Committee 1 will have an·· strive, is of utmost importance to Student Forum {according to opportunity to e£fectively \us as it allows you a vote on whicn..ever governing system we communicate With all parts of the the. Tax Committee, heretofor~. will be operating under) should College. known as the. A.udit Committee. act as a. . sounding boar'd for The tmificatic:m of the student l'm sure thlit''we don't have to student opinion and grievances. ·body serves two important infonn ;YOl.l c&f.:ilthe ~mportance of · When students· feel they bave purposes. The tangible benefit is this committee, .especially with the beep wronged, if they feel the an undergraduate representation . mo11.etary situation, both at food service is not treating them that acts and speaks _together; union and in the real world. Your , fairly, or if decisions. on housing thereby ·giving us a more effective other tasks, although seemingly · .were made arbitrarily, the voice on the issues· that govern us. · clerical in nature., take on students should be able to bring The int;mgible .benefit arises from . renewed importance, when you these complaints to the elected the good spirit that is generated realize that in trying to keep governing structure. with the by a diverse y_et united student accurate minutes of all student knowledge that there will be some body. We must learn to forum and towil meetings, as well form of action taken. An elected incorporate both the old and the as the rmblicizing of these major representative should pick up on new traditions of Union College events, you become the main cog these issues and pursue them to in order to make this a better in ••our\ fight against student the responsible parties. place for all. apathy, and general disinterest in By the same token, there are student politics. major issues !lOOn to be facing the matt brief 1::.. . •\ ~' • ~ . ~ Student .government ts 1ll a year of transition. As of right now; no one is sure what constitution we'll \\ . I . ! ' . Of course Arnie (l hope;: that I Ali-Collc;:ge Senate, which directly may take the initiative to get on a effe~t the students of this college. . first name basis), the road ahea(i Under provisions of the new . is not free of obstacles. You will governing system,. if it goes into be running against at least one effect, the class representatives other very qualified individual, . will also serve on the senate. The who will, like yourself, try to ad hoc committees report on a promote his. , qualities. to the new calendar propo!13l, the report seemingly unmotivated electorate. ·. oh student participation and the If this frustrating tasK. disturbs racism committee's findings and It is important to avoid courses of action which, while they may be favorable to a large protion of the community, are detrimental to the well-being of a small por.tion. Rather than take office with a fixed set of answers already in mind, it is important to hve an open mind, 11,nd ·to have open ears. Before deciding t)n any one course of action, it is important to be aware of, and to take into account the opinions of the various factions of our community. Only until all viewpoints have been openly discussed and explored, should a course of action be decided upon. There is also no reason why a decision, once made, cannot be later c'hanged, should the sentiment of the community change. As a candidate for public office, I am now, and, if elected, will continue to be receptive to ideas and opinions from an.y member of the College community, and will consider those opinions before making any decisions concerning the well being of our community. It is for this reason that l feel 1 am qualified to represent a portion of the student body in the student government. I will gladly answer any questions, addressed to me, concerning my candidacy, as well as discuss any of the problems now facing our community. My phone number is 370-6604 and the room is ll3 Fox. paul 10agaril be op~~tirtg under. There is c;mly one certainty; with the right students in government; we can assume our proper role in t;hr;: administration of this college, regardless of the Constitution. What we need is an influx of ideas that should be tr.ied rather than just be put off. . you, I advise you to discontinue recommendations will all be -with . this attempt, for such facing the Senate this year and . · obstacles will always stand before next. The student representatives you, even if you get elected. to the governing structure should Student government at Union ' Please remember, Mr. Hiller, the feel out the students on these is a serious and involved part of election is not the end, but merely important issues. The students the College community. Evidence the beginning of .. our\ should be made aware of, and of its importance and viability is . h\ y \b\l\ . understand the ·l·m· pl•\catt\ons of reflected in the many decisions relations tp. our respons1 11t1es must be lived up to, or you will each of these reports. Their made by the student government face the consequenees, which all reaction should then be brought this past year. These decisions • · 1 \d h I\ back to the Senate by the include: the new governance those pobttca candt a.tes w o · te As these ·~ru~ are ~ tremendous .importance, it is well worthwhile to examine the role of the student representative so as to gain a better understanding of the specific duties and responsibilities involved. Student opinion forms a powerful and efficacious force when it is both unified and constructively pres~nted. These o.ptmons must inform and influence the \powers that be\- the .Board of Trustees; Faculty, and Administrators. These groups are to be confronted with articulate and informed opinions. The representatives, whose· responsibility it is to review and articulate the mass opinion, present the students' views to the aforementioned \powers.\ It has been repeatedly demonstrated that concise representative presentations are more influential than massive student opinions. There are issue~ on this campus that need to be dealt with. Saga, Housing, the. Calendar ending in June, the student taX.. crunch, a Fine Arts building, and the Comp Ed program, are only a handful of areas that an active student_, government should,bep~ploringand improving. Students must tell Saga to improve· its servic;e (guest' meals, quality food etc.). Students· shou~ push for improvements in dorms, a cal¢ndar that coincides with other schools; they should be urging the. trustees for that Fine · Arts Building. Courses that are farces should be eliminated from the curricula. The College ought to assume those budgets in the . student tax that benefit the whole college;not merely the students. to, and deceive the electorate are representatives. proposal, mandatory commtmity e; d · h Student government can be service, increased campus eventually 1ace · wtt . Our final note to you is merely effective means of . translating security, rejection of the twelve- Having summarized numerous· student governmental issued and the various responsibilities of a class representative, I leave you with these concluding thoughts. My main qtiaification is a sincere desire to represent the Class of ·1977 in an effort to communicate our opinions to the Board of Trustees, Faculty and the Administration. Whosoever you decide upon, I urge you to make your decision count - please vote on Monday in the Student Center. The Vice-President of the · student body is the Chairman of the Committees. Committees are one area where students may have significant input. Tile . whole . campus ought to know what these . Committees do, if anything, and·· imaginative, forceful students ' must be on these committees. In addition, the Vice-President rnay sit on the All-College Senate if · the new Constitution is ratified.} We nee~ so~eo~e with the desir~ ~nd the unagtnatlOn to help makl' this college work for the students. What is needed are ideas and. input. I ask that you not only elect me, Matt Brief, as Vice-President but also elect others to student government who have the imagination and force tD make Union a better place to live in .a.nd learn. . h . student wants and· ·needs t\nto point. grading system, and. the a similar warnmg; t at at anytime . . h b f reality. ·Elect people to office that retentton of squatter's rights. during this misston, e1t er e ore or after the election, do not count will take the initiative to work for ~-- ------------......,.--------------- on ·any support from this these goals, in the best interest of Class . of '78 organilation, as we will be forced the student body. to disavow . any knowledge of your aetivitie&.• This document will self desti,\Uct on or by May 29th, depending upon decisions reached at the Town Meeting, held yesterday. Good luck, Mr. Hiller; \our organiZation will keep in touch. paul boyd Each student at Union, and every other school, is dissatisfied with some form of his or her educational life. The best, and only plausible method of expressing dis~ontent and displeasure it through the stUdent gov.ernment. And, whether the student government takes the • form of a Steering Committee, or hopefully a Student Forum, the only credible process of solving student problems is through tnat · government. The student government, and the members thereof, have a · responsibility, and are answerable . . only to the student body. lt is for that reason alone that the students must take great care in electing their representatives. Well, if you have gotten this far you are obviously willin~ to read each candidate's platform. I commend you fot such art honest interest in . your student government. · It is unlikely, . je~f levine andrew koblenz ~me or not, 1 do hope that you'll get out and vote and help decide -which path Union College is to follow in the future. Thank you very much. In these troubled times, the many problems facing our The reforms taking place this College .-::ommunity may seem term concerning the Union indeed trivial, Nevertheless, College governance system make unimportant as these problems the student voice in college may appear. their solutions are government very cohesive and essential for the smooth therefore more powerful. Under the proposed constitution every functio.ning of our community, elected student representative,(\ and for the weJI...;being of all of its including student Trustees and· members. As a candidate for class representatives to the . public office, I cannot claim to be 'Student Forum, will have a vote . knowledgeable of all the issues on the All-College Senate. this facingus.Norcanlclaimtohave makes the job of class all the solutions. To claim such representative carry that much would be to claim to have more. more responsibility. Many awareness of such matters than controversial issues will face the however, that many will bother to read this far. The issues in the elections this year are the same as they were last year. The candidates are the same in many respects. And the statements of the candidates are the same old trivial bullshit. What does it aU prove? There are problems that must be dealt with, · atid there are people capable of dealing with them. It is in your best interest to elect those candidates. ·t Senate at the beginning of next year including the reports of .the ad hoc committees on Calendar Reform and Com\munity · Participation. Having serve\1 on-' the Calendar Committee and,~ having read thoroughly the repcrf 1 on Community Participation I feel I am qualified to help decid~ on these very important qilestielns. I am interested in· all• opinions and 1 welcome everyone to come and express theirs. Witb dtis attitude, I feel I can best ~epresent the Class of 1918. Whether you cast your ballot for ron jaeobs My experience flS head of my high school student body, member of the Nassau County Youth Services Commission, Congressman Norman Lent's Youth Input Committee, member of the Union College Social Committee and my present dissatisfaction with Union's . student government compels me to run for student office. Whether representing Union College students or not, my personal . committments to change include: I) A more flexible calendar 2) Equitable distribution of athletic funds with respect to sex 3) A more sympathetic response to student housing needs 4) Higher quality food offerings, · 5) The insistauce ()n retaining the high caliber of Union's faculty. These issues are of the utmost importance and upon election l will commit myself to the implementation of them.

:·I PagelO CONCORDIENSIS, Wednesday, May 21, 1975 ----------------~--------------~--~ Class of '78 susan lein. Bird Speaks · Continued from Page 1 . I ' mason go10be:rg This college stands on the eve of important changes in direction, in seeking new programs and altering old ones, in changes which will effect each and every one of us. At Union there is student strength. This strength only evolves when students combine to work. together. College is not something that happens to you, but an experience you control and make. That is why, together, We can help solve the problems that vex you and the campus community. Survey on How You Would Like to be Represented sec.ond, they wish· to develop theml!elves . as human b~ings; third, colleges should be supported so that our country will be .filled with more moral and Rank in <,>rder of importance ... responsible citizens~ · The problems at Union (tenuring of profes·sors, scheduling ·Of classes, renovation of the Nott Memorial, student and College activ·ities and funding) can only be alleviated through involvement - our involvement! I feel I am one person who wants to help solve these problems, who will get involved, keep you infonned, and may-~ even get you involved. Union is your school:Make sure whoever you vote for on Tues., May 27th will be willing to get involved to make a hetter College community - please don't be Academic Issues: ..... calendar , .. comp. ed. ... grading ... tenure ... course ·offerings and evaluations . .. constitution ... other ...•......... Social Issues: ... faculty interrelations ... social events . . . committees . .. organizations ... community participations .. , other ..............• Uving Issues: . . . housing facilities ... squatter's tights ... saga ... other ...•..........• Representative Values: To Senate and Student Forum ... polling on major issues . . . majority voting according to student input ... diversity of representation ... voting according to academic interests , .. voting according to social itJterests ... voting according to personal interests ... voting according to student interests ... other ............... . Every weekend a group of people meets in front of Carnegie (at 8 a.m.) to gather the equipment and take off for a day of canoeing, hiking, rockclimbing, or caving. The . Outing Club owns the necessary equipment for these actiyities and pays for the gas to and from wherever thel._!{O- Ms: Bird does offer a good case . against college. While she· agrees that on the average college graduates do earn more thaq high. school grads, she states that in realitY one·tbird of college grads earn the same as high school grads. Also, a sizeable number of high money earners never set foot in a college. Since today's job market .is so tight, college grads are not even guaranteed j~bs. Ms . .Qird claims that it is a pe~;son's ·background and financial situation which determines their future earnings more than their level of education . .Jf student~ were .given ·.the money which goes towards their college , education, Ms. Bird suggest that they would have the resources ·to c;lo whatever they wanted and would \develop\ as much as ~t!!<fe!!.t.s do in college . Suggestions Offered , fooled. I hope to receive }'our vote. to be your ~presentative to the community senate and in other College affairs. With your help, we cannot fail to make Unio'n a better college and place to live in. To insure that your opinion is heard please return to: Next Tue,s. (the 27th) we will be planning for canoeing, bicycling, and a beginners' rockclimbing trip. If you're interested. be there! Ms. Bird suggested an addition to the civil rights act which says that employees are not allowed to discriminate on the basis of race, color, and sex. She says that educational background should be included, and the burden would then be shifted to the employers to prove. that a college diploma is necessary for the job. She contends that, for most work, on-the-:job training is necessary, and high school students could do Susan Lein, 219 Fox, 370-6447 .. BbTBER Continued from Page 4 The next meeting of the Student-Faculty Bridge Club will be held on Wednesday, May 29, at 7:45 in lble House Upper Lounge. This will be the last meeti~g. o( t_he. year. Trophies will be awarded to the top three lmisher8 for Player of the Year. The results of the last tournament were: First Place: Desrochers and Warner. Second Place: Lee and Gordon. Third Place: Millman and Mills.* * * * The Brothers ol Delta Phi .are sponsoring parties, on two successive weekends, to benefit the Heart Fund. Friday, May 23, a band party will be held at 9 p.m. Saturday, May 31, the Third Annual Delta Phi Volleyball Tourney will take place. All proceeds will go to the Heart Fund. Any independent teams wishing to particip ate in the tourney must contact D Phi by May 26. Entry fee is $12 per team. * * * * The Philosophy Seminar this week will present Professor E.A.S. Lewis of the Physics Dept., discussing the topic: \Should We Know How Things Work? The meeting will be held on Friday, May 23, at 3 p.m. in HU 213, and will be followed by' refreshments. All are welcome. * * * * The Math Dept. Softball Game and Picnic will be held on Saturday, May 31, in Jackson's Gardens. The game starts at 3 p.m. with the picnic following. Everyone is invited. * * * * This Friday evening, May 23rd, at 8:30 p.m., the Coffeehouse proudly presents two Union graduates, Bob Bernhardt and Juan de Ia Sierra. Admission is 75¢ and tickets can be purchased in advance at the Student Activities Office. Also appearing: coffee and doughnuts. * * * * Students will be able to store fumitnfe over the summer in the College Center, room 202. Furniture can be moved in on . Friday, June 6, from 1:00 p.m. to 5:00p.m. and on Thursday, June 12. from 9:00a.m. to noon. Be sure to have a name tag on each piece of furniture. * * * * A two-bedroom apartment is available for subletting in Boston during this coming summer. Anyone interested in getting more informatiop should contact Jim Alberg, 84 Gardner Street, Apt. 14, Allston, Mass. 02134, phone 617- 782-9534. * * * * Attention All Gatesman Applicants: You should have received notification from us by this time. lf you have not received anything in the mail from the Selection Committee, please check in the Admissions Office as to the status of your applicatio:q. * * * * The Union College Women's Glee Club will close the season with a concert in Memorial Chapel on Sunday evening, June I, at 8:00 p.m. Directed by Robert A. Christensen, the group will perform works varying from Brahm's Love Songs to \Suiilm.ertime\ from the musical \Porgy and Bess.\ The Union College Chamber Singers will perform as well. The public is cordially invited to attend. Admission is free. . ., the Work as well as college grads . The Steinmetz electric car restoration needs more workers for next year, regardless of experience. Stop by our workshop in the machine lab behind Carnegie on Friday, May 23, any time from 10 until 5, and find out more about the project - or call Howard Eisenson Cary M. Siegel, a student from Brooklyn, N.Y., will spend the next academic year at the University of · St. Andrews, Scotland, on a Union College exebange program. The sophomore liberal arts major wits ·selected by a student-faculty committee from among applicants for the . honor. The St. Andrews Exchange, started in 1937, is a rec:ipro.cal program for students and faculty members of Union College and Scotland's oldest university. TYPING ReaiClllable Rates FutSenite· 393-2233; at 6477. Maurice B. Graubart & Sons For three Generations 16 6 Ja\ St. For Honest Servi · ! ., And Good Jewelry 1ll ALTAMONT AVE. NODELWERY CHARGE WITH TWO PIZZAS .......... IJIII1II. ~­ Cd31+5dl LUIGI'S ..TAURAIIT .~N· .ltafiGIJ- Americw Foo:l . . . ' . '11251AII&h I.ST. SO&ECI'ADY 116-9744 . ~~·---~ ....... \--:Cod·~:·

be ge in ds of al b. CONqORDIENSIS, Wednesday, May 21, 1975 Page 11 Tennis Nets Winning Season In defeating Albany State last Thursday, the Union College tennis forces completed a sweep of the Capital District area colleges and clinched a winning season both, for the third consecutive year. Over that three year period the Garnet Racketmen have totaled 18 wins and just 6 losses. This years' squad finished with a 5-4 slate. As well as topping Albany by a 6-3 margin, Union fell te Middlebury last Wednesday at home by an identical 6-3 score. Against the Panthers from Vermont, the Garnet could only muster 2 points in the singles matches. Seniors Kevin. Crawford and Roman · Rakoczy won decisions at the number one and two singles positions. Kevin's going the three set 'limit. Middlebury quickly clinched the match with a decisive win in the mO_/ler two doubles match-up. liver at Albany State it was a different story as Union jumped out to a quick 4-1 lead with only the number one match lingering into a third set. Crawford clinched the match with a 7-6, 5- 7, 6-4 victory. Seniors Rakoczy, Crawford and Steve Wayne each closed out their varsity careers on a winning note. Also victorious for the Dutchmen were freshman Rolf Lipton and Sophomore Steve Marcus. These two will have to carry the load next year as the graduating seniors will be sorely missed. Since their arrival on campus Union tennis has been on equal with any in the Northeast. The trio will travel to Rochester the last weekend in May to represent Union in the Eastern I ntercollegiates. Women's Sports Awards Union's leading hitter, Gary Borgese, crosses plate in baseball's finale. (photo by Dan McManamon) Baseball Splits CHARLIE FLANAGAN The Union baseball team split its games last week, beating Albany State 7-4, while losing to its arch rival R.P.l., ll-6. The season · ending loss to R.P.I. dropped the Garnets record to 7- 7. unpack their batting bag. The Garnet nine made a real game of it, scoring six runs in. the last three innings before bowing out, 11-6. Gary Borgese, Chuck Lamson and Dan DeGregory · each had two hits, and led. Union;s offensive attack. .. Geese\ tied a record set by 'Dale Long for the most hits in a sipgle season with 26. ••Geese.. also finished the season sporting a blistering .433 batting average. Nearly 100 women played on the six intercollegiate athletic teams at Union College .and capped their seasons with a banquet, just like the men, in .Hale House Saturday night (5/17) and distributed .. most valuable player\ and \Dutchess\ awards to those elected by their teammates. Sheila Weaver, the first full- time women's varsity coach in Union's 180-year old history, organized the Women's Athletic Association which will meet annually to honor achievement and distribute awards. A distinctly feminine note was the corsage of flowers given each feminine. mostly part-time, coach, and the wives of faculty members invited to attend .• Three women won honors in two sports: Madelyn Y~tt'm, a senior major in mathematics from West Chester Pa., was .elected most valuable player on both the field hockey and lacrosse teams. Katharine Kelley, a senior majoring in philosophy from . Albany, was elected \Dutchess\ - -\Ronni L. Zankel, freshman (Union's men are known as majoring in biological sciences \Dutchmen\) of both the field' from Natick, Mass., most hockey and lacrosse teams. valuable player in softb~ll. Pamela Anderson, a Elaine Baldwin, sophomore sophomore majoring in chemistry majoring in Department of the from New Rochelle, was elected Arts from New Haven, Conn., Dutchess of the volley ball and Dutchess of the softball team. tennis teams. Among the ~peakers at the Wall plaques for being most banquet was Mrs. Anne Ross valuable player on a team and a Fairbanks, coach of swimming at statuette to the elected Dutchess Skidmore College. of each team were given also to: Of Union's 2~000 full time Amy L Juchatz, freshman undergraduates, (!50 ar~ women. majoring in chemistry from Union became coeducational in Syosset, N.Y., most valuable 1970. player in volley ball. Donna Sockell, sophomore majoring in biological sciences from ~yosset. most valuable Gros· sman player m basketball. Barbara Dewey, senior maJonng in American studies from Caledonia, Dutchess of basketball . Susan Rich, senior majoring in American .studies from Darien, Conn., most valuable player in tennis. Bobby Grossmann, senior Joe Urschel was the winning pitcher against Albany State, scattering nine hits while striking out seven. The win boosted Urschel's season record to 3-2, and brought his four year career mar,:k to .an impressive 19-6. Dan DeGregory, Gary Borgese, and. John Busterud led the Garnet offense each with two hits. One of DeGregory's hits was a two. run triple in the eighth inntng that put the game on beer. Lou Miller was the defensive star, and a shoe string catch that prevented two runs from scoring. Softballers Finish ·On Top attack player on the Union College varsity lacrosse team, was awarded the coaches trophy for being the most valuable college lacrosse player in the Capital District Sunday (5/18) during halftime of the match between the Mohawk Lacrosse Club and the Connecticut Valley Club. Grossmann was the unanimous choice of the lacrosse coaches at R.P.l., Siena and SUNY at Albany (Union's coach, as is the custom, did not vote for his player). This is the second year that Coach Bruce Allison's star player was elected by his opponent coaches as the most The library tp.Ust have closed early When Union went over to visit the beautiful city of Troy. R.P.I. came out swinging their slide rulers, and built up an ll-0 lead before Union could even Pool Optms The , Girting Center Pool is opening its doors to Union Students for the first time in recent school history, next week. The Pool will be open for student use seven days a week starting Thursday May 28th. Hours will be: Mon. through Fri. 1-6 pm, and II am to 6 pm on the weekends. ln order to defray the pool's 300 dollar per week operational expenses, there will b~ a, one dollar per day charge to students wishing to use the facility. Special group rates will be made available also. For · further information contact Coach Knoll at the Gym. Considering the recent climatic conditions, one dollar is a small price to pay for those hoping to drown their sorrows in the last w~ks of the term. In the Intramural Track Meet last week, Davidson South took team honors followed by Phi · Sigma Kappa, Webster House, Off O.mpus, Figi, and Chi Psi. Davidson took the mile relay and placed in every event. '' ·-··' ·' : In their last conk(st of the year, Zankel from third to conclude. the the women's softball team scoring. SCCC was held scoreless boosted their record to 4-3 with a and the score was boosted to 8-2 10-5 victory over Schenectady at the end of four. Community ·College on May l3 in The fifth inning saw Pam Scotia. Anderson lead off with her The scoring for Union opened second double and score on a in the top of the first inning as single by Slotoroff. SCCC Debbi Slotoroff singled and stole challenged the lead by scoring 3 two bases. Perky Francis followed runs in the bottom of the fifth, with a single-to score Slotoroff. but Union still maintained a 9-5 With Francis on second, Ronni lead. Zankel singled, allowing Francis Sue Finkelstein of Uni'on to cross the plate. Zankel walked in the sixth inning, but proceeded to steal the next two was the only Dutchwoman to bases and scored on a single by reach base safely. Both Union and Cathy Reals. Gina Pugliese SCCC failed to score in the sixth. singled and stole second and With one out in tbe top of the third. Pam Anderson ripped a seventh, Gwen Young singled and double into the outfield allowing stole two bases. Slotoroff added Pugliese to score easily from her fourth hit to score Young. third. The inning ended with SCCC was unable to score in the Union on top · 4-1. bottom of the seventh to conclude Slotoroff led off the second the- game and give Union a 10-5 inning with another single and stole second. With two outs, The Mechanical Engineering Zankel singled to score Slotoroff Department is conducting a from second. Zankel stole second third-year evaluation of and third before Reals singled to Professor Ram K. Mittal. score Zanke_l. Union had opened Members of the College a 6-1 lead and held SCCC community who wish to scoreless in the home half of the contribute to this evaluation second inning. are invited to forward their Senior Ann Bonvouloir of remarks in writing to Prof. J. Union singled in the third but was R. Shanebrook, Chairman of unable to score before the third the Mechanical Engineering out was made, SCCC scored one Department, Steinmetz Hall. run in the bottom of the inning to :============::: make the score 6-2. Union added two more runs in the fourth inning, highlighted by Elaine Baldwin's solo homerun. Zankel followed Baldwin by clubbing a single through the infield. For the third ·consecutive time, she stole second and third. Reals hit a double to left to score .• .... ' . STOLEN: Along with other equipment, a earousel of valuable personal slides, from Professor Bittlemau's studio. Anyone finding them or having knowledge of their whereabouts, please contact Proftssor Bittleman at his Cametie Hall _.udio. victory. Union's 10 runs were scored on 17 hits with 20 stolen bases. SCCC had 7 hits and 3 steals. Pam Anderson received the victory while walking 5 and striking out 3. ~valuable player. Saturday at 1:00 p.m •• the Tour-de-Union will grace the campus. Action will start in front of the Gym. (photo by Bill Erichson) '.

Page 12 I CONCORDJENSJS, Wednesday, M!!_Y 21 1 .1975 lntramurals Growing Rapidly In just one short years time, the intramural program at Union, now under the direction of Gale Knull, has made significant strides forward in its attempt to involve everyone campus-wide in some form of recreational activity. In his official capacity as Coordinator of Recreational Sports and Intramural Program, Coach Knull has tried to advance on several fronts this year and has planned even more improvements in the areas of equipment, officiating, administration, and in the quantity, quality, and variety of events and activities offered. \The key to success in improving . our intramural -program lies in better, more efficient organization and on input from the student body,\ said Knull. He is there for students to work with, not to dictate what should and should not ·be done. Says Knull, \I am here to assist students in getting things done and accomplishing some worthwhile objectives.\ Presently the recreational program is proceeding on fo1,1r different fronts: intramurals, physical education, recreational . sports, and special events. Participati<m increased in all four categories this year. The softball leagues were greatly expanded this Spring and basketball enjoyed a similar increase this Winter. The addition of soccer (l2 teams) and coed volleyball under rec sports were both successful. Many new phys-ed courses and special events were added fo the calendar as well. .. Courses in fly-tying, scuba, volleyball net between West and·· karate, and' ho~seback riding were Richmond Dormitories and well received this year. Yet to come several thethetball posts placed on the special events agenda is the around campus. Possibly a few annual Tour de Campus on May mo.re strategically p-laced 24th and a challenging basketball nets would be-put up:· Steeplechase event to be Equipment improvements-have sponsored by Beta. been at the f()refrortt of Knl!ll's On the planning board for next objectives. This includes year is intramural competition in equipment for officials as well as such new sports as hockey, broom game supplies s1,1ch as aluminum hockey, curling, lacrosse, softball bats. This summer the innertUbe water polo, and frisbee. Richmond-Beta parking lot will be In the phys-ed department there graded, rolled; and top soil laid will be instruction given in yoga, down. The field wjll be used for judo, figure skating, and . hockey intramural recreation. Hopefully in addition to the·usual offerings. the same thing will be d<me with Under the allspices of the presentfieidsupattbe Girling recreational sports, where the idea Center. Other improvements is more fun than competition, under consideration are the several improvements are being resu~facing and Ugh~~ng of the considered. For instance, a tennis courts. Coach KnuU also sees as part of his duties the. assisting .()r club sports. This would include anything from weight lifting to chess. By a·ssi-sthl.g and coordinating club activities, student tax money will . he prGpetly and more efficiently accounted f<>r; Perhaps the cru~ial point to be made here is that students now have somewhere . tQ go with cq_mplaints, suggestions, or new ideas. It is an excellent chance for anyone to help i~prove the r:ecreatlonal aspect of Union College life.. If you take <!D interest, something concrete will be done. Input from students is· essential to maRe things go. Nothing is impossible. Cricket anyone? photo by Greg Cohen photo by Lorne Ng A questionnallt: will soon be coming from the Director __ Q_f Intramurals and Recreational Sports. Please, those who receive them, use due care in filling them out as they are an important source of input for the continued. improvement of our intramural program. .. * * * As of May I, 1975 the Union College Weight Training Club was officially organized. Twenty- one members attended the organizational meeting with In tram ural Blither tournament to boost turnout. several others not being able to After two postponements attend voicing interest. . because of rain, the Union One of the club's aims is to try· College Doubles Tennis This Saturday at 1:00 P.M. the and achieve better facilities and Tournament was successfully held Annual Tour-de·Union will be conditions to use and work in. on Monday~ May 5. Mark· held. All cyclists young and old But to do this we need people Massey and Kevin Stickney won are invited to attend. Three events who are willing to take a few the set against Tom Merten and will be scheduled: * * * * minutes of their time and do a Mark Ellman 84. Larry Fein and 1:00 P,M. Single lap sprint race little Work. To accomplish this the Ken Mackenzie also won their set - Lemam ·start will be utilized. club was formed. against· Dave Bradlee and Bob Heats wil! be run if entries If you are interested in joining Her-man 8-2. In the finals,Massey warrant. our club, contact one of the and Stickney came out the · 1:30 P.M. 3 lap distance race- officers at these addresses! Chris winners against Fein and timed heats run Smith, Box 896; Ed {{ulik, Box Mackenzie ending 9-7, We hope 2:30 P.M. 4 person relay race. 59; or Mark Ftampton, Box 154. for better weather at the next Each rider wiU ride one lap. * * * * AU races will begin in front gf Alumni Gymn~sium. Riding is permitted .only_ on the side walks on Union Avenue and Union Street.. No short cuts will be permitted. * * * * The First Annual Union Steeple Chase sponsored by Beta Theta Pi will be run Sunday (May 25) at 11:30 A.M. on Alexander Field. This is . an extremely challenging event requiring strength, speef;i, endurance and intestinal fortitude. Th~ Lt Delta present featurir thebes and 1 . fuel, o 7:00 01 Housel b~ 1 Ph< yea wit pur rai~ Co cor an< ho1 in th COl an~ Cc m~ ho an wl he ve t~t be -

Pink Fbamingos drew one of the largest crow·ds ever in U. Coli. film history. Air si~k bags were provided at the -door, and even Jon J,evin was grossed out. Way to go Film · ComPJittee! l'he Lenoif · Road Gang, Plil Delta Theta and Delta Phi, present a free pre-rmals ~een, featuring the band Suntour,, the best tap system on campus, and Kelsey's· Punch/Rocket fuel, on Friday, May 30, at . :.eo Ol! tJ!e field ~~~~~n_ ~he · : OU!es, I • .. Where sin abounded, grace djdmuch more abound.\ Romans 5:20 - I .1. ,. ; Vol. 104, No. 25 Wedne$d~y, May 28, 197~. t - ! . . 2 .. . . The U Coli phonathon netted $16,200, a new record, for the Union College Annual Fund. photo by Greg Cohen · Phonathon. Cleans Up by SUSAN FINKELSTEIN The 104 students who called The third annual union College during the four-night phonathon Phonathon set a new record this on the campus were recruited from all residence halls and year by raising $16,200, compared fraternities by Mr. Gordon L. with $10,147 last year. The Decker's two student assistants, purpose of the Phonathon is to who also h~lped to s~p.ervise the raise money for the Union operation on the upper floor of Coll·ege Annual Fund by Hale House. These are -Michael contacting both undergraduate A. Garrone, a senior majoring in and graduate alumni at their bio. and Keith A. Mott, a homes. The idea of Qsing students in this- endeavor is in the hope sophomore, also majoring in that direct, personal biological sciences. alumni participation is 19%. Perhaps the most important part of the success of the Annual Fund Phonathon is that with increasing alumni interest and contributions to the College, UnioP. not only ~;ecei:Yes . the benefits of the donations, but the percentage of financial support from various foundations and other donors has been seen to increase with alumni concern and dedication, another essential part . of Union's supplementary financial support: Inflated Grades Plague College by MIKE AFFINITO Colleges and universities across the nation are addressing themselves to the fact that students are recelVmg higher gradrs now than at any other time in history. Students' grades have been steadily increasing since 1960, according to a survey. The largest increases came in the late 60's and early 70's. This fact is making .. grade inflation\ one of the most debated issues in higher education today. Why Did It Happen Many feel that the problem stemmed from the radical era of the early 60's. During this period, many professors at various institutions began empathizing with the anti~war views of the students on college campuses. In accord with this, professors began giving out higher grades, in the · belief that lower marks would label students to be taken out of school and placed in Vietnamese ·combat zones. Atso, ··Pass/ Pail options were instituted at this time. Other theories which have been offered are: faculty' members feel obligated to give higher grades in order to keep student enrollment up at colleges. ~ faculty are moved by the necessitY to favor students with higher grades in order to keep their students in competition with students from other schools who are applying to graduate and professional ·schools. the caliber of students entering college is sufficiently improved to warrant the higher grades which are being given. In response to ·this last hypothesis, Pierce Williams, chairman of the History Department at Cornell, has said, \You know damn well they're not. If anything, freshmen: today are even more functionally illiterate than they used to be.\ His basis for this statement is probably the marked decrease in both verbal and math sections on the SATs. What Are The Effects? communication between alumni The student pho·nathons and students now attending the followed 16 nights of alumni College will be more effective in phonathons which took place in making alumni more aware .of Los Angeles, J?enver, Rochester, how important their contributions . New York Cl!Y; Boston, an~ and interest in the College is, \Schenectady. There, 275 alu~m while allowing present students to manned the phones to ra1se help contribute to raising some almo.st $80,000 ~nd contacted very essential funds to be used for som~ _3,000 alumm, Mr. Decker the College from which they can revealed, Prof. Finnished As a result of the increase in the number of high grades being given. graduate and professional school officials are beginning to dismiss transcripts of applicants as unreliable and misleading. They are relying more heavily on scores of standardized tests such as GRE's, MCAT's, and LSArs. In following this line of action, these schools undercut the credibility of schools such as Union, whose standards have not eroded as rapidly and forciag them to inflate grades in order to keep students at their institutions in competition with other schools. The old adage \a C at Union is a B at any other school\ is no b~nefit. For the academic year ending The Annual Fund plays an June 30, 1975, the Union College important role in the fina.ncial Development Office is seeking support of Union College. These $400,000 and a 56% participation monies are used for stud.ent from alumni donors, he said. scholarships,, lab_oratory Last year the Union College equipment, and will be used this Annual Fund raised $347,000 year to purchase new books and from 6,091 alumni donors, for a· periodicals for the extension of 51% participation. In other Schaffer Library. colleges, the national average of ~----------------------------------~ Election Returns For trustee, a runoff between Vote of confidence, trustee Glenn Wolfson 206 No 4U Chris Taylor 140 Yes 317 Lloyd Saberski 112 Todd Carr 90 Piedmont 69 Vote -of confidence, class reps No · 94 · Allison Donenfeld 63 Mark Massey 62 Yes 83 Class of '77 For president, Mitch Mindlin 133 Brian Tucker 467 Paul Magaril 119 R. B. Thau 254 Jeff Levine 73 I For VP Class .of '78 Matt Brief 431 Andy Koblenz 182 Martin Tagliafetro 247 Sue Lein 132 Mason Gomberg 66 For secretary Ron Jacobs 6~ Paul Boyd 304 Jeff Goffner 34 Arnie Hiller 285 Dr. Howard E. Sheffer, Professor of Chemistry at Union College. will be a visiting professor at the Technical University in Otaniemi, Finland, next year. His stay there will be financed by a grant from the Neste Foundation, a unit of Neste Oil of Finland. He will teach chemistry and continue his own research. Prof. S.heffer taught at the Otaniemi Institute in 1968·69, when he was a Fulbright Professor there. A native of Schenectady and a 1939 graduate of Union with a Ph.D. from Cornell, Dr. Sheffer joined the Union faculty in 1945. - A consultant to Schenectady Chemicals, Inc., Sheffer holds a number of patents and is a member of four divisions of the American Chemical Society - colloid. polymer, paint and plastics, and organic. - longer being accepted by graduate and professional schools, and rightfully so. As Stephen Burke, Dean of Hamilton College, has said. \They have to find it absurd that a kid has an A average and gets ranked 250th in his class. That ha-s to have some effect - or doesn't the world , are about quality anymore?\ The Situation at Union Professor Willard Roth, Continued 011 pa1e 3 Jazz on the lawn. Santi performing at the Girling Center last Sunday. photo by Greg Cohen

Page2 . td.itors:-in-C.hief .. ; .•... ,_... • .... ~ ••• Jonathaii Scheef. · · . · . ·. ~.Pet~ ,.Sobol F:eatures ·Editqr •..• ; . ·• · ....•......•. Lee Rimsky · Culture Editors ..•............•.... Mike Affinito ~ · ·oavi(i Moskowi~ Sports Editors. . . . . . . . ; .... : . . . Kevin Cra\Yford : . Barb Dewey Managing. Editor .. : . .......•.. t .·.Lance Travi~ Copy Editor ..... _. ........ ~- ·~ · .•.. ~ Phil Alcabes Contributing Editors . · .......•.• ~ ... -!Jldy Dein Rob Mondschein Bill' Talis Business Manager •.........•.•.. Robin Pellish. National A·dvertising .............. Betsy Barn~t Subscriptions: ........ · ........... Shelley Gold. . Lisa Tietz . . ' - Photo Staff: ·Greg Cohen, Dan M;yManamon, . Rich Guardian, Rudy Lu~ Arthur Miller, Don ~am~erman, Dave Gro$sman · Staff:. Bill Plaus, John Busterud, Sue Brickman, Jack Pitney, Matt Bric~f~Joe Friedman, Clare 'Valken CONCORDIENSIS is published every W.I!Sday· by the student body of Uniou· CoDege, Old Gym HaD, Schenectady, N.Y.; to wllich Postal. Forms 3579 are db'ected. Publications Off'ree! The Jewish WoriCI · Publications, 4~' Smith St., Schenectady, N.Y. 11305 (370-5483). Entered. in tbe Schenectady Po~ce as Sec()nd Class Matter. Subscription Rate· 35 cents per co:pj;sSI.to a year deliv«ed anywhere in' the United States. .. . - . . rando10 Dotes Congratulations are due both to whoever suggested the idea and to the men who are actually doing it: the painting of Carnegie Hall. It is amazing what a new coat of white paint over the old flaking trim is doing for this neglected edifice. Let us learn from this instance how easy it can be to make a big change with the careful application of a little attention. This campus is not without a few more flaking trims that could use a coat of paint - in any manner of speaking. The Concordy staff would like to take this opportunity to congratulate the winners of the recent student elections. It is with a sad and resigned acceptance of the ways of fate that we see a few more of our comrades. start off down that shadowy, corner- pocked ro;td of politics. We watch them go, and believe that they cannot possibly know the full consequences of what they have got themselves into, yet we are happy for them, for no matter what we believe, they are where i they have worked to be. The likelihood is that someday I they will 'join the ranks of their fellow poljticians as Concord~ targets, so today we wish them all the best on their new journey. As we were putting the paper together last night, an occasional soul wan<lered in who had sat through some portion of Pink Flamingos. Some of them said they liked it, and we noted that fact about them in a secure place. Some said it was boring~ and we . raised· them a notch in our esteem. Some said that it was awful and offensive and that not only did the school have no business allowing the film on campus, but the Film Committee had no business getting Pink Flamingos when it could have got a true \quality\ flick. It seems to us that the inierest in the movie on the campus is justification enough for it to be shown here. Any people who stepped into () 16 last night were pretty sure of what was going to be dealt to them; they stepped in because they wanted to see what \gross\ was all about. If they did not enjoy the movie& at least let them appreciate the opportunity of having been able to see the thing in the privacy of their own campus. Finally, we would like at this time to express our gratitude to those devoted souls who spent many a long Tuesday night in the newsroom helping us put this newspaper together. To those of you who lent us support in our efforts to bring a little humor to the campus, we offer our thanks. To those of you who disagreed with us, we'll be back next year to print your letters. And, to those of you who think that Concordiensis should pr1.nt national news ... don;-t hold your breath. PGS,JMS you·sCJid Jt ·. ' metaphors? Editors, Concordieucis, (sic) With reference to the article, (or editorial?) \Spanish Inquisition,\ I believe the gentleman P.Q.S. · is slightly confused in the use of his metaphors, (perhaps in this age -of .inflation' they should b~ called metephives) however I seem to recall that it was \the tiger by the tail\ and \the bull by the horns,\ although considera~ion should be given to the fact that perhaps ~his confusion is caused by the use given (sic) by P.G.S. of the product of this end of the bull. AI Mitchell. Maintenance -Dept. Ed. note: Grabbing the bull by the tail and facing the situation was o_nce recommended by W.C. Fields. Now there was a ma:n who knew a.mataphor from a cliche and was not afraid to be funny. phouathon woman, even after seeing an episode in which Katie invites Hudel to her apartment, initiates the sexual contact, and seems to be the only ene of ~he two actually wnscious while having sex:· (Hndel having passed out from booze)? · · Maybe it's all a joke to be taken lightly. But the humor of sex:ism wears a little thin for me at this point. And wet:en't some of the jokes serious? Certainly the boy sitting in front of me seemed genuinely annoyed that Katie wasn't a Playboy bunny look- .alike. Was it that those students simply disagreed with serious feminism .(and men's liberation) or was it that they had never really learned about it? I couldn't tell. But I :find it disappointing. and perplex:ing that the old ideas about sex and men~ and women seem to live on in an educational institution like Union College. C.W. B$rber name? Editors, Concordiensis: Editors, Concordiensis: There are several errors in last We would like to take this week's Concor-dy article on the opportunity to publicly thank the student co Ii s tit uti on a 1 more than one-hundred .students compromise which I think need who did such a fine job at the correctin-g for the record. Third Annual Stu dent The petition which D.ave Phonathon, May 19-22. McCourt and Jon Scheer The money raised was indeed presented to the Steering significant. but more importantly Committee objected to passage of the time and sincere effort of the the new constitution as long as part1c1pants was. deeply that document inc:luded clauses appreciated by the alumni oody expanding the power of the as well as by the Department of pre·sent junior class External Affairs. Our offices have ' representatives. Th,e petition did received many expressions of not. however, mention the class of thanks and praise from. alumni '76 trustee, as Concordy claims it for the work done by the· student did. callers. The article goes on to give a We hope that the experience very rough outline of one of the was as rewarding for the arguments which was given to participants as it was for us. . counter the points. made by the Thank you all very much. presenters of the petition, and I Gordon Decker, '68 am listed as one of the ''major Director, Anntud Fund proponents\ of this counteF- Bill Kuchta, • 72 argument. Although I was Asst. Alumni Director arguing on this ''side\ of the issue, I never used any of the reasons (''beliefs\) attributed to me by Concordy. My name is Dowrtsbrough, not poor Downsborough. reaetions Edito~, Concordiensis: I watched The Way We Were when it played at Union the other week and had a fairly lousy time; - not because the mm was particularly more offensive than any other Hollywood formula tlic. but because I was surprised and annoyed by mi.rch of the audience's reactions. . It seemed half the audience thought it was a huge joke or crime that the star of the film wasn't beautiful in the typical Miss America $CDSC. They yelled &~.nd sneered and ridiculed. Maybe I should have cheered and shouted my admiration for the character, but I didn't care~ Why did they'? Why did they ca~e every time a woman on the screen ran instead of walked? Why did that deserve more whistles and cat- calls? Why did th~y think it was so hilarious when Katie was rowing the boat while Hudel sat idle? And why, when H-udel declined Katie's invitation for breakfast after their first night together. did one person yell out {with that familiar smirk-voice), \He already got what he wanted\? Is it really that some college students still think that sex is something a man \gets\ off a Best wishes, Bruce Downsbrough. ehildhood Dear kids at Camp Union, My parents stink! They never let me do.anything fun. Just lousy things like eating mashed potatoes and beans! And going to Grandma's, Ugh!! Grownups are really terrible and we made a play about what we'd do if they weren't there and my Mommy and Daddy are going away on Thursday and Friday and Saturday. May 29, 30 and 31, so we're gonna put on this play called CHILOHOOD so everybody could see what us kids would do. It's only a half-hour long 'cause we know what short attention spans you kids have and it's really exciting. to keep you interested (we get attacked by Indians and aU sorts of stuff). Oh yeah. we also know how cheap parents are atid how they never give you enough money so-it's FREE on Friday and Saturday at 8:30 in the Cabaret room and it's part of the regular show on Thursday. Oh yeah. an()ther thing, ies directed by Uncle Lee who's the best counselor at Camp Union. Bye-Bye and thank You very much. lt was very nice to have met you. Yours truly, Caroline, Dodie,. and Billie Gardenhose thanks- Editors, Concordiensis: On behalf of the outgoing Bo.ar.d of Dire·ctors of Mountebanks, we wish to express our thanks for the assistance Concordy has provided for us during the past year. lt is :by now well-documented that Concordy serves as a satiric device for exposing the foibles of Union College. However, it is often overlooked that Concordy is the only forum for student · organizations. .to describe the directi~- in. which they . are moving: It 1s also the most inexpensive and effective medium through which an organization can advertise upcoming events to the students. . Lest we overlook this service, the Mountebanks greatly appreciate your help. Sincerely, Board of Directors, 1975-6, Mountebanks .thru Editors, Concordiensis: Let me bring to your attention the fact that the members of the Delta Upsilon . Fraternity at Union College collected $740.72 for the Heart Fund in the area of the Mohawk Mall on Saturday, May 17. This was done in approximately four hours, an unusually short period of time ~nd a sign of sound organization and zealous dedication. Two students who should ·be commended for this project are Mr. Edwin Parisi, President, and Mr. A:tmand Benny, Chapter Relations Officer, although this hardly exhausts the , Jist. The many members of this fraternity whom I have had the .opportunity to meet are outstanding individuals of whom the College can be proud. Thank you. Sincerely your$, George D. Sachs Assistant Director Heart Assoeiatioll of Eastern N.Y., Inc. evaluations due To Concordiensis: The Liaison and Governance Committee has circulated forms to administrators. faculty, and students for the purpose of evaluation of a number of administrators on the campus, including the President. I would personally appreciate it if those,of vou who received , the fo-rms would cooperate and return them to the committee. since without a large response they will be of very limited value. Thomas N. Bon11er, Presiden.l ', u liber ·face: ed:w imn abo I . '~·relc . stre~ •spec 'mar Ch~ De~ pos: ~ infl: ·rna~ pro con to \he 1 deb rea: sta1 bee [ the occ ren gra a 1 em thi: ber I sar na1 inf inc gr~ fro th~ he ,...... ,;.J ! -

- :le Lee :Camp tk You ttice to • truly, ie, lllld e11hose 1tgoing ·s of !Xpress istance for us nented satiric bles of it is neordy tudent e the y are most tedium ization ~nts to ervice, ·eatly cerely, ectors, !banks ention of the ~y at 740.72 crea of urday, :te in s, an ' time zation tld-be ct are t, and tapter 1 this The ernity tunity :tding ollege ro11rs, Sa ells rector 011 of , lne. IS tance orms and ~ of of npus, ro11ld •se.of (urns them [JUt a very niter, idellt I tab &trhtus .. _ by Jonathan Scheer Union, not unlike many small arts colleges of its kind, faces a disarray m liberal education. The signs are immutable: demands for abolishing requirements; more , _\relevance\ in education; and ·stress on the marketability of . specific fields of study. In short, _ rnany argue that a liberal .. CONCORD/ENSIS, Wednesday, May 28, 1975 Page3 On Reviving the education is inadequate in meeting tlie needs of the .. real world.\ ln the midst of this turmoil in liberal art colleges (Union being no exception), a fun<!~tn~nt!ll tenet of liberal education has been thrust 1n the background the central importance of precision of thought and especially of language. The contemporary threat to written language - caused to no small degree by the phenomenal success of visuaf· media - is, at bottom, a threat to the extension and development of the human capacity for precise statement. It is also a threat to the basic ideal of individual worth and dignity and, for this reason, it is i threat to the credibility and worth of liberal education. The written language is an instrument for expression and, as .such, language and thought are closely linked. High literacy, characterized by precision in 'the use of language, must be upheld as one of the- most .. saleable goods\ of this institution, in deed as well as in word. Precision~ in language (accurate and_ meaningful representation of thoughts), is of the utmost importance if we are to c;ontinue to communicate with our fellows ·in a rational, meaningful manner. George Orwell once said that \the English language becomes ugly and inaccurate because our thoughts are foolish, but the slovenliness of our language makes it easier for us to have foolish thoughts.\ Lestwe forget why we are here, the mastery of the written language leads to mastery. in the arts of thought, perception, and judgement. In light of the r.apid decline in SAT scores, increased specialization in the natural as well as social sciences, and immediate need for coherent expressions of thoughts and ideas Written Word in an age which is more complex a.nd' confused than any prior to o ur · o w n, it s e·e m s incemprehensible that there is not a freshman English composition requirement at Union; one designed specifically to broaden.: as well as sharpen the wr.i~ing - skills of those individuals. That t h.e p r e s e n t fr e s h m a n Comprehensive Education requirement (originally designed to meet these needs) has been a d is·IUal failure, needs no documentation. Professors in both the humanities (excluding English) and social sciences agree :that t-hey are ill-equipped to teach these skills. Freshman Elective 10, rather than an exercise in the written ;language, has become an introductory course in a specialized field of study - whether it be history, political science. philosophy, or whatever. It is outrageous for members of the college community to say that it is not necessary for pre-meds to i~atn how to write. That is Hke saying it is not necessary for doctors to know how to think. Mathew Arnold once gJ~£_ulated: \it may happen that in a great age, a great nation has attained a remarkable. fullness of political and social development, without intellectually taking the complete measure of itself.\ Perhaps it is time for us to re- examine what we value in a liberal education at Union - what we stand to gain from its assets and lose from its inadequacies. A consideration of what we have to gain by reinstating a freshman English requirement might ,dull the edge of the sharp polemic of those who, for whatever reason, deny its importance. By neglecting to take this step backwards, we are doing a great disservice to ourselves and to our community. Grade Inflation <;ontinued from Page 1 Chairman of the Biology Department at Union, offers two possible reasons for grade · inflation here. He states that it may be argued that part of the problem is that students are coming to college better equipped to cope academically. However, · he goes on to say that this point is debatable. Another possible reason is that the grading standards at the College have been lowered. Dr. Roth's impression is that the greatest inflation of grades occurs in the B range. \The A remains a reasonably difficult grade, but the distinction between a top B and a bottom B is an enormous ra.nge. Professors, in this case, are willing to give the benefit of the doubt.\ Dr. ~oth voiced many of the same theories which are held nationwide as reasons for \grade inflation\ at Union. \The cume index of students applying to graduate and professional schools from Union seems to be lower tha,n from many other colleges,\ he says. \The tendency on the pan ot the faculty is to grade less severely to make us competitive with other schools.\ This is necessary because of the nationwide deterioration of the grading system. Union can no longer survive on reputation alone. Dr. Roth- tends to disagree on the point that MCA T's and G RE's are being used as the major standard by which students are judged~ \Most medical schools regard M CA T's as far less meaningful than transcripts. However, their latitude in looking at transcripts has been reduced.\ Students at Union and elsewhere feel that good grades are an absolute necessity. This influences grading, especially at .a small college like Union. Professors are willing t_o help out students with higher grades. The pressure on the faculty in this case is generated by the position the student sees himself in. . One major adverse affect of this type of student concern is the damage it incurs on the chances of receiving a broader education. The cause of this phenomenon is necessary to raise the cutoff mark that students are unwilling to in order to compensate for the elect courses outside of the area ever increasing number of they feel most comfortable in. On stud~nts with' cumes between 3.3 this point Roth comments, ''grade and 3.6. In commenting on what inflation is damaging, in my the numbers mean, Professor personal opinjon, to the <broader William Bristol of the History liberal arts education. It is Department stated, \there has extremely bad that a student been a college-wide erosion of should have to feel that the grade standards over the years.\ is more important than. What the Figures,Say intellectual growth.\ A disturbing trend can be More Phi Beta Kappas observed in Union's admissions The effect of grade inflation has over the past six years. ln 1971 even spread into the election of the incoming class of freshmen students to honorary societies, had average scores on the SA rs such as Phi Beta Kappa. It must of 603 verbal and 643 math. For be made clear, however, that the class entering Union in the fall grade inflation is by no me..ans the of 1974, the average verbal score sole cause for the rising numbers was 560, and 621 for math; verbal · being elected to the society. By scores have gone down 43 points examining the figures from 1970 and math 22. These figures may and 1975, it is possible to draw indicate that the caliber of stndent . some interesting conclusions. In entering Union has been going 1970, 21 seniors were admitted; down over the past few years. the lowest grade index was 3.34. J.A.D. Shupe, Director of In 1975, 40 seniors were admitted Admissions, states that if one and the lowest average was 3.58. looks at the high school records In five years the number of of our incoming freshmen, they students elected to the society has are achieving a higher level of doubled and yet the .. lowest index performance in high school each allowed has increased by .21. The year. Shupe says, \The implication here is that it was information is conflicting.\ He goes on to speculate, \The kind of performance which has ·been traditionally rewarded by good grades at Union are ba~ed on the same types of judgements used in high schools as opposed to types used on the SAT's.\ It is possible to discern a de-finite upward trend of grades given in the B range, as Professor Roth suggested. In the year 1971- 12. 6,130 B's constituted 40% of the grades given at Union. In 1972-73, 6,324 B's were given, for a total of 40.2% of the graefes;-in 1973-74, 6,612 B's made up 41.4% of the grades given. Between 1972-74 the percentage of A's has remained constant at 29.5%. Also, cume indexes have been steadily rising during the period 1969- 1974. The average senior cume in 1968 was 2.47; in I 970, 2.65; in 1971, 2.79; in 1973, 2.85; in 1974, 2. 90. Thus, in a relatively short· time. the average cume at Union has jumped .43 grade points. Whether the reason for this is .grade inflation or higher achievement on the students• part is debatable. Brain 1 girls strolling nonchalantly across the field with their gaze averted to the stars. A rendezvous had been arranged with one caller who had liked the sound of Jo-Ann's voice, and the young man apparently had some friends in need. Noting the overabundance of prospects, the girls scampered to the Skeller (to succumb to shell-shock over a beer). For a· Good Time Call ... In the following days a few calls straggled in but they retained the air of idiocy that had been projected the first night. Virginia, Jo-Ann, and Chri's are reported to be in fine condition, resting quietly. and they should be able to take calls in the near future. by Cathy Marthy Affair wanted. male wanted - . now don't .ru-sh off to the telephones yet you eligible young men, these two solicitations are tired old requests that can be found in Concordy's May 21 Blither- column (and in the hearts of millions). The phones of Virginia Smith, Jo-Ann Messina, and Chris Brucia, three fair residents of Richmond House (see. it wasn't Jon Scheer and Peter Sobol), started ringing soon after the paper was released. The innocent victims of a practical joke experienced the brunt of the fertilized imaginations of numerous de.sperately driven or desperately drunlhen Union students. There was a seasonmg of townie calls but Virginia reports that they could not hold a candle to the fine secretions of Union minds. The first response to roll in was a young man inquiring if it was a woman's number listed m the paper. Upon being answered m the affirmative he shouted \Oh my God, 1 can't believe it,\ while Mary Martin's rendition of \When You Wish Upon A Star\ wafted softly in the background. Another caller took the opportunity to brag· about the size of his \hammer\ (call in Mary Martin one more time). There was one definite result stemming from the situation. If · you happened to be in th!;! vicinity of the Nott Memorial at midnight last Wednesday, you could have observed a group of ten milling and rum_b,ling young men, themselves observing a couple of Gatesmen selected for 1975-1976 Stephen Blonsky Larry Cooke Sue Freeman Nick Gassaway Gary Haber Bob 1--Ialberstam Bob Henkel Alison Jameson Paul Jorrizzo Val Kilhenny Jodie Miller David Moskowitz Kelley Newton Josh Oppenheim Liz Pava Cirtdy Pearce Janet Schuster Fred Simon Jack Stein What kind of man reads Concordy? The man who doesn't hide behind a mask. FACT: More people read Concordy than take a dip in the West College ice cream freezer.

!Page4 CONCORDJENSIS. Wednesday, May 28, 1975 The Final Examination Schedule Third Term- 1974-75 (IMPORTANT- This exam schedule is primarily for regular, day undergraduate courses. A separate complete schedule for \Evening Division\ cours.es will be announced, and students in \Section 51\ courses should be alert for the announcement of the exam time for those ·courses.) Confli'cts in examinations should :be reported to Mrs. De Groff in the Office of the Registrar not later than Friday, May 30, 1975. Examinations will be held in the assigned rooms. Listed below is the code of the buildings to be used. BH- Bailey Hall BU- Butterfield Hall HU - Humanities Building NW - Science-Engineering Center (North Wing) PY - Psychology Laboratory SS - Social Sciences Building SH - Steinmetz Hall SATURDAY, JUNE 7 9:00-11:00 A.Me F .E. 67 (Introduction to Contemporary :Mathematics), BH 201, Strait !Economics 10 (Elementary Economics) I Sec. l, SS 113, Prosper Economics 11 (Elementary Economics) Sec. 1, SS 112, Lurie Economics 131 (Microeconomic Analysis), SS 117, Kenney Economics 144 (International Economics), BU 109, Phaup English 150 (Literature of the Middle Ages), HU 114, Freund English 154 (Special Studies 1n Shakespeare), HU 116, Murphy History 81 (Tropical Africa: An Introduction), SS 010, Bristol History 130 (Health & Health\ Care in America, 1700-1974), SS 115, Erenberg History 141 (Contemporary Europe), SS 012, Hansen Chinese 12 (Basic Chinese III), HU 119; Woo French 12 (Basic French III), HU 117, Roberts French 134 (The French Language in Practical Use II) Sec. 1, HU 110, LeClerc German 12 (Basic German III), HU 112, Klemm Russian 12 (Basic Russian III), HU I 13, Jernakoff Philosophy 21 (Symbolic Logic), HU 115, Ludwig Political Science 153 (International Politics in East Asia), SS 014, Thurston Biology 13 (Biology of Plants - Core III), SS 016, Tobiessen Biology 15 (Genetics and Evolution - Core IV), BU 204, J. Boyer !Biology 138 (Biology of Animal Parasites: 1 Helminthology), BH 312, Styles Chemistry 150 (Physical Chemistry I), BU 'l04,. Sutter Mathematics 21 (Mathematical Methods for the Social Sciences II), BH 106, Ling ( Mathematics 24 (Geometry), BH 108, Fairchild Mathematics 30 (Ordinary Differential Equations) Sec. 2, BH 201, Madd_~us _ -Mathematics 33 (Abstract Algebra II), BH 1 102, G. Reynolds Physics 22 (Electonic Circuits), NW 222, -Lewis Psycbolo.gy 30 (Theory of Personality), PY 102, Graves · Psy4:hology 46 (Physiological Psychology), - PY 113, Berthold E.S. 22 (Science of Engineering Materials), SH 110, Milillo E.S. 33 (Fluid Systems Analysis), SH 106, Aubrey SATURDAY, JUNE. 7 2:00-4:00 P.M. Comp~ Ed. 22 (Sex Roles in American Society), PY 113, Britain Comp. Ed. 59 (Sound and Music), AB 104, Craig · Comp. Ed. 144 (Maoism and Peasant Revolution in Asia), SS 016, Cumings Economics 142 (Macroeconomic Theory and Policy), SS 012, Kent Economics 150 (Seminar in Industrial Economics}, BH 102, Maciar_iello English 124 (Contemporary American Eiction), HU 014, Gado History 129 (American Enterprise Abroad), SS 117, Finkelstein Political Science 12 (International Politics) Sec., 2, SS 010, Jancar Political Science 185 (Maoism and Peasant Revolution in Asia), SS 016, Cumings Sociology 1()4 (Contemporary Sociological Theory),\HU 119, Weiner Accouliting 10 (Principles of Managerial Accounting), BH 312, Kauth Geology . 120 (Recent Sedimentary Environments), BU 106, Zimmerman Mathematics 18 (Jntroduction to Logic and Set Theory) Sec. 1, BH 203, Seiken Sec. 2, BH 108, Fairchild Mathematics 127 (Numerical Analysis), BH 205, Tornga Physics 14 (Elements of Modern Physics), NW 116, Pilcher Psychology 35 (Organizational Psychology), PY 102, Graves E.E. 144 (Principles of Communications Systems) Sec. 51, SH 100, Galantowicz MONDAY, JUNE 9 9:00-11:00 A.M. F.E. 61 (Maps and Map Making) Sec. 1, BU 204, Male Sec. 2, BU 204, Harlow Sec. 3, BU 204, Harlow F.E. «i4 (Weather aRd Clima:te), BU 109, D. Stone. · Comp. Ed. 145 (Soviet\ Economic Development), SS 1 I 5,. Levine .Art 19 (Photo~t· .ttr<~:..'••·,. ·Rosenblum Musi.; 133 (Musica't 1900), AB 104, Eco.nomi(s 155 • .· Development), SS llst, Political Science 170 112, Daniels ' \lti Sociology 132 (The I SS 117, Gracey Sociology 147 (S · .AI Literature), SS 113, Statistics 11 Methods), BH 312, M . A.M. 152 Science II), BH 310, · Biology 3(; (Inverte B. Boyer Physics 142 Mechanics), NW 222, E.S. 20 (Mechanics) E~~· 170 Economics), SH 110, Computer Scieo~; Linguistics) Sec. 51, BH 104 11 F.E. 21 (Students a P. Allen \\ , .t I . - F.E. 22 (Freshman SS 112, Weiner F .E. 63 (Science and~~: F.E.' 65 (Introd Programming), SH F .E. 66 (Intelligent BH 207, Wylen Comp. Ed •. 29 Ideologies), SS 014, Comp. Ed. 50 ( Resources), BU 204,. Comp. Ed. 136 (Asp Science), SS 016, R Comp. Ed. 137 (W 19th and 20th re1ntu·ritff Economics 10 t<.Iemenu Sec. 3, SS 117, Economics 11 . ~- I Sec. 2, SS 115, ~. Economics 153 (The · SS 012, B. ReynoldS:-..:~. English 122 (The A · HU 117, Gado History 13 (Democ1tci and Reconstruction), ~j History 139 (W est~r, . · 19th and 20th Cent}1ri ·. , ··. French 130 (Reading · ·~ French Literature), VJ Political Science ) · Analysis), SS 010, H: Biology 240 (Etholo~ • · Chemistry 40 (Quafl<'-ti 109, Schaefer , \ ft I· ~ 1 Mathematics 100 (~. 1and Boundary Values) .. Psychology 24 (S~c:·:. .!iff 102, Newman J· .·E. S. 19 (Bio .. . - ... Scientists), SH 110,

.:_). AB 313,, , :, Economic ' 4 f . • '1 L'b . ) SS n·{ClVl · 1 ertles , · .. if' i/ ! ?rl ! ndividual in Society), j I r lology of Art and ; ; ·r~rlile .. ,,. · ~ent~ry Statistical .. ;,rabile . . , x t~~lg:: Behavorial . 1~¢. ·Zoology), BH 201, jl :; ,., · iru~io~ of Quan,ium Windsor i .1:·::. r~ WO, Panlilio , 1,, . ;~!~. t:fd Engineering Jr,t' J~,.'r.'lf40 (Co·mputer ~j~ k ?~·~ lq,g I ~~ ·.•·.·· ' ~··ool±· \~~~~~!88(~ .\1 i· .• . I · .. :!JUNE 9 . . :\ . /f! 1 P ~·1\1. . ',' 1 S~hools), HU 014, ·:finar in Sociology), .. ~ /.Jciety), BU 300, Hull 1 ll, n to Computer . ' y~ Ig.gvarsson . \' .'~ 'in the Universe), . , ·~ :t~.~ 1 t .. sian Ideas and 1 rston . •) : i, :as of Physical • 1 ,!!;. tcY ~ts of the History of ..,. .. r' Ludwig fl'11n~\'..-l~ in the SS 113, Hansen Economics) Economics) . t nomy of China), ··Crisis: Civil War 116, Lichterman ~ ... A ... • • sm in the S 113, Hansen in Contemporary Roberts , (Political Data I 104, George Chemistry}, BU for Life CONCORDIENSIS, Wednesday May 28, 1975 The Final Examination Schedule .TUESDAY, JUNE 10 - 9:00-11:00 A.M. Comp. Ed. 63 (Iniroduction to Astronomy), SH 106, Titus Comp. Ed. 152 (The Evolution of the Earth), BU 204, Zimmerman Latin 139 (Roman Satire), HU 113, Testroet History ll (The New Nation: The United States, 1965-1815), SS 113, Erenberg Chinese 132 (Modern Chinese III), HU 119 Woo ' Chinese 142· {Modern Expository Chinese III), HU I 19, Woo ltalian 10 (Basic Italian) .,. Sec. 51, HU 112, Mallozzi Biology 12 (The· Cell - Core II), SS 016, Lambert ., Mathematics 134 (Differential Equations), BH 203, Maddaus Psychology 10 (A First Course in Psychology) . Sec. 1, PY 102, Huntley E.S. 14 (Engineering Applications of Digital Computers), BH 207, Goodheart E.S. 16 (Engineering Graphics and .Computers) I Sec. 1, NW 116, Stelmack Sec. 2, BU 109, Eisenstadt 1 E.E. 33 (Analysis and Design of Electronic Circuits), SH 110, Chang Computer Science 12 - (FORTRAN Programming)~ BH 201,· lngvarsson Computer Science 14 (Introduct.ion to COBOL and Data Processing), SS 115, T. Schwarz . TUESDAY, JUNE 10 2:00-4:00 -P.M . iEnglish 12 (Tlle English Literary Tradition: :victorian and Modern), HU 115, Mansfield History 170 (Communism in Latin America), SS 117, Bristol Hebrew 12 (Basic Hebrew III), HU 119, Welkovics Philosophy 32 (Modern Philosophy), HU 114, Peterson Political Science 165 (Urban Politics), SS 115, Tidmarch Mathematics 1G{Calculus I), BH 106, Ling Mathematics 12 (Calculus II) Sec. 1,. BH 104, Strait Sec. 2, BH 203, Bick Sec. 3, BH 205, Tornga Mathematics 14 {Calculus III) · Sec. 1~ BU 204, Leach Sec. 2, BU 204, Leach Sec. 3, BH 207, Gillette Mathematics 30 (Ordinary Differential Equations) Sec. 1, BH 102, Loughlin Psychology 66 (Seminar tn S.ocial Psychology), PY 102, Newman C.E. ·50 (Environmental Engineering II), BU 300, Snow WEDNESDAY, JUNE 11 9.:00-11:00 A.M. Comp. Ed. 138 .(Literature of Dissent in the Soviet Union), HU 115, Jernakoff Economics 10. (Elementary Economics) Sec. 2, SS 117, B. Reynolds Economics 138 (Qu.antitative Methods in Economics), SS 014, S. Schmidt ·Economics 151 (Environmental Economics), SS 112,·Kenney History 126 (AIIJ.erica's Rise to World Power), SS l B, Jonas History 159 (The Soviet Period), SS 115, Berk EI;. T. 68 (Literature of Dissent in the Soviet Union), HU 115, Jernakoff. · · French 134 (The French Language in Practical Use II) Sec. 2, HU_l_ 1~, Tho~as G-ermaii -i 1 (Basic German II), HU 117, Klemm Sociology lO (Introduction to Sociology), BH .3 12, Carlile Biology· 149 ·(Biophysical Aspects of Cell Physiology), HH 201, Lambert Chemistry 12 (Fundamental Chemistry II) Sec. 1, BU 204, Sowa Sec. 2, BU 204, Scaife Sec. 3., BU 204, Sowa Chemistry 16 (Inorganic .Chemistry 1), NW 116, Weick Chemistry 134 (Organic Chemistry III), BU 106, Muscio Mathematics 41 (Linear Algebra I), BH 106, Loughlin Mathematic~ 130 (Complex Analysis), BH 203, Bick Psychology tO (A First Course m Psychology) Sec. 3, PY 102, Newman Psychology 38 (Child Psychology), PY 113, Britain M.E. 40 (Engineering Design and Proj'~ct Planning), SH 110, Eisenstadt WEDNESDAY, JUNE 11 2:00-4:00 P.M. Comp. Ed. 35 (Contemporary American Jewish Tho11ght), HU 115, Eckstein Comp. Ed. 130 (James Joyce: Finnegan's Wake), HU 114, Peterson Economics 162 (Seminar in Financial Analysish SS 117, Kent Accounting 111 (Managerial Aspects of Cost Accounting}, BH 102, Kauth Chemistry 164 (Polymer Chemistry II), NW 222, Sheffer Physics 11 (Introduction to Physics I) (for Biology, Science, Humanities and Social Science), BH 207, C. Swartz Physics ll (Introduction to Physics I) (for Science and Engineering) Sec. 1, SS 113, Titus · Sec. 2, SS 115, Windsor Physics 13 (Introduction to Physics II) .(for Biology, Science, Humanities and Sqcial Science), BU 204, Schick Physicsl3 (Introduction to Physics II) (for Physical' Science and Engineering), BU 204, Jones · Psychology SO (Educational Psychology), PY 102, Girdner C.E. 48 (Structural Steel), BU 109, Hibbeler PageS ~ ' I

Page6 CONCORDIENSIS, Wednesday, May 28, 1975 •• Records: An almost perfect 'Gorilla' BUITHER ' . ·If your club or organization has not been notified about by DLM & MAS \My dear friend your head's. been sinking like a stone/You must try thinking like a cloud sometime/ Just leave a happy sound out loud sometime/There's a symphony inside you ... \ With this, James Taylor speaks of himself and the new life he is living - all important reasons why his latest release Gorilla is the most consistent and upbeat record of the year. Past James Taylor albums have often regressed mto monotonic vocals in songs which were very similar (plodding and dull) to begin with. Reviewers always have mentioned Taylor's over- discussed battle with drugs as a reason for his uninspired post- \Fire and Rain\ words. Still, this is no longer an issue; Gorilla mainly reflects Taylor's new happiness. (He has been happily married to Carly Simon for the past two years.) Taylor recorded Gorilla with an ' Chick Corea and Return to Forever dazzled a Union College a:Udience with their display of electric jazz. Bernhardt returns by Mike Affinito Last Friday night, Bob Bernhardt made his third return appearance on a Union College stage as he played the Old Chapel Coffeehouse. Bernhardt, as always, gave a solid and enjoyable performance and his magnetic personality turned the evening into a fun-filled journey through the magical world that Bob Bernhardt creates on stage. Bob was in total command of the crowd from the very start as ,.everyone there either had heard him before and were back for more or, had been told that this, of aU coffeehouses, was ''the one not to be missed.\ There were the usual ballads in the Bernhardt tradition, a few CSNY songs and of course the Beatles and Bee Gee's medlies which Bob invited everyone to sing along with. The one thing that seemed to be missing was the spontaneity that Bernhardt had, in the past, projected. The performance seemed much more structured Continued on Page 7 impressive assemblage ot musicians. David Crosby and Graham Nash sing backup vocals on two songs and (of course) Carty sings along on one other. Taylor has also recruited drummers Russ Krinke] and Andy Newmark; organist Randy Newman, bassist Willie Weeks and guitarist Danny Kortchmar. To this, Taylor has added several sounds new to his music, including harp, clarinet, oboe, mandolin, and wind chimes. The resultant James Taylor band sound is clean, vibrant, and always exciting. The album's fkst s·ong, \Mexico exemplifies its many strong points. The melody . is reggae and far from dulL Lyrically, Taylor touches on the false paradise of the tropics: \Baby's hungry and the money's all gone The folks back home don't want to talk on the phone She gets a long letter Sends back a postcard Times are hard Oh, down in Mexico\ ' Taylor's apparently newfound ability to contrast his melodies shows with \How Sweet It Is,\ a revival of an early 60's rocker. Even though a departure from Taylor's usual acoustic style, because of its subject the song fits in. Dedicated to Carly, the song features her sing-along harmony and some nostalgic eil;ctric guitar. The total effect is a feeling that Taylor has, through her, rediscovered his musical potential. The title cut of the album, \Gorilla is a shuffling, Gay 90's kind of piece with an enigmatic set of words: \He's got arms like legsiHe's got hands on his feet! He's got a nose like a doughnut/ He's got a tendency to overeat... Tends to avoid the street/4e rides by EldoradorWhen he comes to town.\ Whether Taylor is actually singing about a gorilla or not requires a little reflection. The album's highlight lies in \Love Songs,\ a piece which sums up James Taylor's contented state of mind. After a lilting oboe introduction by Jules Jacob, the song shifts to a melody about how .. love has found me a way.\ It's an encouraging sign when an artist manages to be revitalized by something as healthy as love. With his other problems solved, James Taylor has managed to create an almost-perfect album~ a beautiful, thoughtful work (by far his best) which perhaps proves that love can find us all a way. including a description of the activity in next year's Fresbmiln Re~ord, please notify Lois Kivelson or Pat Cose at 377-9897 before June 4. Forms have been placed in student mailboxes: but some activities may have been missed. * \' * * JOBS, June 13 and 14. The Alumni Office has 12 6penings for various jobs during Alumni Weekend, June 13 and 14. Pay is $2.50 per hour, reliability a must. If interested contact BiH Kuchta in Lamont House. * * * * HUNGRY? Eat at Sigma Phi Fall Term. Ten mealsfweek (plus Sunday brunch) - $225. Just dinner - $140. If interested, contact Don Milder. or Ted Twombly at 346-9225. * \' * * The ATID BOOKMOBILE will visit the Union College Campus, on Monday, June 2. the bookmobile is run by A TID, t·he college organization of United Synagogues of America. The bookmobile features books of Jewish interest, from Eli Wiesel to A.J. Hesche!, and many -others. Also for sale are Hebrew records, posters and otb.er materials. . Driver Danny Horowitz and the bookmobile will be in · front of Carnegie Hall from 9:00 a.m. to 1:30 p.m. on Monday, June 2. * \' * * Students will be able to store furniture over the summer in . the College Center,. room 202. Furniture can be moved on Friday, June 6, from 1:00 p.m. to 5:00 p.m. and on Thursday, June 12, from 9:00a.m. to noon. Be sure to have a name tag on each piece of £urniture. * \' * * All organizations interested in having a room in Carnegie 'Hall for ne,xt year, including existing organizations, must notify Craig Carlson (Admissions) by Monday, June 2. * * * * Seniors: Graduation announcements are in. Pick them up at the Student.-Activities Office. * \' * * The Department of Psychology is currently conducting a third-year evaluation of Professor Philip R. Newman. Members of the College community who wish to contribute to these evaluations are invited to forward their remarks in writing to Professor C. W. Huntley. * '* * * For the summer - private room in faculty home on campus, in return for taking care of house and lawn. See Mrs. Huntley, North College. * * * * The next meeting of the Student-Faculty Bridge Club ~ill be held on Wednesday, May 29 at 7:45- in the Hale House . Upper Lounge. This will be the last meeting of the year. Trophies will be awarded to the top three finishers for Player of the Year. The results of the last tournament were: First place, Desrochers and Warner; Second place, Lee and Gordon; Third place, Millman and Mills. * * * * The Biology Department is holding its Annual Picnic Friday, May 30 at Girling Center. Rides will be avaibibk from the computer center parking lot between 4 and 5:00 p.m. Hot dogs, hamburgers, salads, chips, cake, beer and lemonade will be served. Traditional games as well as a frog- jumping contest (b.y.o.f.) and most original design cake contest will be held. Prizes will be awarded. Tickets are $1.50 .(50u: for children 12 and under) if purchased before May 30; $1.7 5 if purchased on the day of the picnic. See Ruth, the Bio secretary, for tickets. Rain date is Sunday, June I at 1:00 p.m. Listen to WRUC if in doubt. . * * * * The Math Dept. Sof~ball game and picnic will be peld on Saturday, May 31 in Jackson's Gardens. Softball game starts at 3:00 p.m. with the picnic following. Everyone is invited. * * * * Continued on page 7 Attention all graduating seniors - If you have applied to law school, it would be most appreciated if you could drop into the Politic:al Science office and fill out the simple questionnaire for the Pre-Law Society. This information is necessary for the C<lmpilation of a Pre-Law handbook, which will be published in the fall. Please help out your fellow students, by spending no more than five minutes of y<lur time in completing this form and returning it to Mrs. Kozel AS · SOON AS POSSIBLE. Thank you for your cooperation. STOP IN AT: Vernine's Plant Room Moffett's Liquor Store 15tf5 VANVRANKEN AVE. S€HENECTAOY. N.Y. 12308 509 B. Union St. ... ~ ;C· l' ... \ >· ·<i .l. If•

Page 6 CONCORDIENSIS, Wednesday, May 28, 1975 Records: An almost perfect 'Gorilla' BLITHER If your club or organization has not been notified about including a description of the activity in next year's Freshman Record, please notify Lois KivelsoH or Pat C<Jse at 377-9897 before June 4. Forms have beeN placed in student mailboxes~ but some activities may have been missed. by DLM & MAS \My dear friend your head's been sinking like a stone 1 You must try thinking like a cloud sometime/ Just leave a happy sound out loud sometime/There's a symphony inside vou ... \ With this. James Taylor speaks of himself and the new life he is living - all important reasons why his latest release Gorilla is the most consistent and upbeat record of the year. Past James Taylor albums have often regressed 1nto monotonic voca1ls in songs which were very similar (plodding and dull) to begin with. Reviewers always have mentioned Taylor's over- discussed battle with drugs as a reason for his uninspired post- \Fire and Rain\ words. Still, this is no longer an issue; Gorilla mainly reflects Taylor's new happiness. (He has been happily married to Cady Simon for the past two years.) Taylor recorded Gorilla with an Chick Corea and Return to Forever dazzled a Union College audience with their display of electric iazz. Bernhardt returns by Mike Affinito Last Friday night. Bob Bernhardt made his third return appearance on a Union College stage as he played the Old Chapel Coffeehouse. Bernhardt, as always. gave a solid and enjoyable performance and his magnetic personality turned the evening into a lun-lilled journey through the magical world that Bob Bernhardt creates on stage. Bob was in total command of the crowd from the very start as everyone there either had heard him befc>re and were back for more or. had been told that this. of all coffeehouses, was \the one not to be missed.\ There were the usual ballads in the Bernhardt trarlition, a few CSN Y songs and of course the Beatles and Bee Gee's medlies which Bob invited everyone to sing along with. The one thing that seemed to be missing was the spontaneity that Bernhardt had. in the past. projected. fhe performance seemed much more structured Continued on Page 7 impressive assemblage ol mus1c1ans. David Crosby and Graham Nash sing backup vocals on two songs and (of course) Carly sings along on Ol'le other. Taylor has also recruited drummers Russ Krinke! and Andy Newmark; organist Randy Newman, bassist Willie Weeks and guitarist Danny Kortchmar. To this, Taylor has added several sounds new to his music, including harp, clarinet, oboe, mandolin, and wind chimes. The resultant James Taylor band sound is clean, vibrant, and always exciting. The album's first song, \Mexico exemplifies its many strong points. The melody is reggae and far from dull. Lyrically. Taylor touches on the false paradise of the tropics: \Baby's hungry and the money's all gone The folks back home dofl't want to talk on the phone She gets a long letter Sends back a postcard Times are hard Oh. down in Mexico\ I aylor's apparently newfound ability to contrast his melodies shows with '\How Sweet It Is,\ a revival of an early 60's rocker. Fven though a departure from Taylor's usual acoustic style, because of its subject the song fits in. Dedicated to Carly. the song features her sing-along harmony and some nostalgic electric guitar. The total effect is a feeling that Taylor has, through her, rediscovered his musical potential. The title cut of the album, \Gorilla.\ is a shuffling, Gay 90's kind ol piece with an enigmatic set ol words: \He's got arms like le?-S He's got hands on his feet He's got a nose like a doughnut He's got a tendency to overeat..Tends to avoid the street! 4e rides by Eldoradot When he comes to town.\ Whether laylor is actually singing about a gorilla or not requires a little reflection. The album's highlight lies in ··tove Songs,\ a piece which sums up James Taylor's contented state of mind. After a lilting oboe introduction by Jules Jacob, the song shifts to a melody about how '\love has found me ·a way.\ It's an encouraging sign when an artist manages to be revitalized by something as healthy as love. With his other problems solved, James raylor has managed to create an almost-perfect album - a beautiful, thoughtful work (by far his best) which perhaps proves that love can find us all a way. * * * * JOBS, June 13 and 14. The Alumni Office has 12 o~enings for various jobs during AlumRi Weekend, June 13 and 14. Pay is $2.50 per hou, reliability a must. If interested contact Bill Kuchta in Lamont House. * * * * HUNGRY? Eat at Sigma Phi Fall Term. Ten mealsjweek (plus Sunday brunch) - $225. Just dinner - $140. If interested, contact Don Milder or Ted Twombly at 346-9225. * * * * The ATID BOOKMOBILE will visit the Union C~Uege Campus, on Monday, June 2. The bookmobile is run by ATID. the college organization of United Synagogues of America. The bookmobile features books of Jewish mterest, from Eli Wiesel to A.J. Hesche!, aNd many others. Also for sale are Hebrew records, posters and other materials. Driver Danny Horowitz and the bookrno bile will be in front of Carnegie Hall from 9:00 a.m. to 1:30 p.m. on Monday. June 2. * * * * Students will be able to store furniture over the summer in the College Center, room 202. Furniture can be moved on Friday, June 6, from 1:00 p.m. to 5:00 p.rn. and on Thursday, .June 12, from 9:00a.m. to noofl. Be sure to have a name tag on each piece of furniture. * * * * All organintions interested in having a room in Carnegie Hall for next year. including existing organimtions. must notify Craig Carlson (Admissions) hy Monday, June 2. * * * * Seniors: Graduation announcements are in. Pi\ck them up at the Student Activities Office. * * * * The Department of Psychology is currently conducting a third-year evaluation of Professor Philip R. Nev.man. Members of:he College community who wish to contribtite to these evaluations are invited to forward their remarks in writing to Professor C.W. Huntley. * * * * For the summer - private room in faculty home on campus. in return for taking care of house and lawn See Mrs. Huntley. North College. * * * * The next meeting of the Student-Faculty Bridge Club will be held on Wednesday, May 29 at 7:45 in the Hale House Upper Lounge. This will be the last meeting of the year. Trophies will be awarded to the top three finishers for Plaver of the Year. The results of the last tournament were: First place. Desrochers and Warner: Second place. Lee and Gordon: Third place. Mill man and Mills. * * * * The Biology Department is holding its Annual Picnic Friday. May 30 at Girling Center. Rides will be available from the computer center parking lot between 4 and 5:00 p.m. Hot dogs, hamburgers, salads, chips. cake. beer and lemonade will be served. Traditional games as well as a frog- jumping contest (b.y.o.f.) and most original design cake contest will be held. Prizes will be awarded. Tickets are $1.50 (50~ for children 12 and under) if purchased before Mav 30: $1.75 if purchased on the day of the picnic. See Ruth, the Bio secretary. for tickets. Rain date is Sunday. June I at I :00 p.m. Listen to WR UC if in doubt. * * * * The Math Dept. Softball game and picnic will be held on Saturday. May 31 in Jackson's Gardens. Softball game starts at 3:00 p.m. with the picnic following. Everyone is invited. * * * * Continued on page 7 AFTER EZRA POUND Attention all gra()uating Springterm is icumen in, Lhude sing Thankgod Groweth flowers, wasteth hours. And how the head doth nod! Sing: Thankgod. Cutteth class and withdraw pass And minds all turned to sod. Playeth lacro, forgetteth Macro, Two weeks, sing: Tba:nkgod .. Thankgod, Thankgod, no help to prod) Thankgod~ Thro' hooks we plod, Bing, Thankgodt ~tlankgod. SOBOL STOP IN AT: Moffett's Liquor Store 150'5 VAN VRAN KEN AVE. SCHENECTADY. N.Y. 1\2308 seniors - If you have applied to law school, it would be most appreciated if you could drop into the Political Science office and fill out the simple questionnaire for the Pre-Law Society. This information is necessary for the compilation of a Pre-Law handbook, which will be published in the fall. Please help out your fellow students, by spending no more than five minutes of your time in completing this form and returnin~ it to Mrs. Kmel AS SOON AS POSSIBLE. Thank you for your cooperation. Vernine's Plant Room \ i l '··· ' I I ~ I. l . ' .... -

' :.r ' J~l ~ G.~ ,, ~· '· ' i' l'i' I -r .. -\ . ' · CONCORDfENSIS, Wednesday, May 28, 1975 Page7 . BOTHER . . ' ' . ' Anyone interested in being a Varsity Football Manager please contact Coach Cahill at the Gym (ext. 6284). \' \' \' * The stm;lents restoring Steinmetz's l914 Detroit Electric are holding an organizational meeting for all those interested · in helping next year. Come to our workshop behind Carnegie on Monday, June 2 a.t 8:30 p.m. Refreshments. will be served. Regardless of experience, you can contribute to this interesting and enjoyable project. * * * * Do not forget to return all Library materials before leaving school. · * '* * * • . Thanks should go tb the Social Committee for r~viv:ing an old tradition .... T}le senior class will be having their last fling 12 at Valle's Steak House. The Social Committee has 1acmatea· $400 along with contributions from other sources to this a success. Buy your tickets now! . * * * * Attention all Political SCience majors! There will be a Political Science Picnic at 12:00, Saturday, May 31, rain or shine at the Girling Center. (Transportation will be available.) Fully recovered from the bumps and bruises of last year, the faculty promises an active afternoon of softball 1 • .,.,..,.,. .. r, and/or football. The student representatives promis~ of beer and food. Cost is. $1.50 per person and must be tfl. Mr~. Kozel in the Political tScience office by \'u'\\\'UaJ · May·· 28. A show of support must be l;toJrthcolntiU! in order that this final event of the year can be a * * * * , The Mounteban-ks are scheduling a trip to the American Theatre in Stratford, Connecticut on June 7 to King Lear, with Morris Carnovsky. Tickets~ are $5.00 frPrhu•Prl. from $7:50) for good orchestra seats. An excellent Pf4)<1llCtJon. but the number of seats available is limited. For infor~ation, check notice board in the Green Room, Memonal; or call 6128. '!' * * * Anyone interested in participating m a revolution m berocall R.B. at 370-6597. · * * * * An oscilloscope was taken from the Physics Department Thursday, May IS, or Friday, May 16. It was being used is badly needed, costs $750, and is nof insured. It is a Packard 1220A in a grey plastic case, with a blue '\·\';~;u. Two probes were also taken. The Physics Department ·be grateful for any information concerning this. \' * * * In Concert: The Union College Women's Glee Club with Union College Chamber Singers, directed by Mr. Robert Sunday, June I, 1975 at 8:00 p.m. in Memorial ~ .. a..,,,,, Admission free. * * * * Anyone from the casts of As You Like It, Our Town, or Ple,llaes. interested in copies of photographs, please see Cliff Langweiller in 214 Davidson at any time (that is, any or call 346-9342. Performances: by HARDY TURGlDSON Chick Corea came to Union~s Memorial Chapel last weekend and he brought with him 'one of the most dazzling and electrifying shows ever seen within the confines of that small concert hall. Corea had witb him, of course, \Return To Forever\ composed of Lenny White on drums, Stanley Clarke on bass, AI DiMeola on guitar, and Corea himself directing the musical excursion from within hili fortress of electric organ, piano; ~ynthesizer, Arp, and acoustic piano. The show kicked off with \Day Ride,\ and Corea immediately took control of . the audience. Everyone watched spellbound as Corea made his instruments wail unearthly sounds and play well- conceived and executed music. After the initial shock of Corea everyone settled in; as much at least, as one can settle with Chick Corea on stage .. \Return to Forever\ then .played an original Corea. colnposition entitled, \Dan:ce\. The song was highlighted at several points by t>iMeola dueling back and forth with Corea as the two musicians seemed to be playing a game of \top this if you can.\ The song was also the audience's first glimpse of Lenny White's prowess as he ripped off chains ·of precision high speed drumming which were utterly amazing. The next tune \Sophistofunk called in the assistance of the Arp, which is a synthetic instrument capable of generating an artifical rhythm. Once the A·rp was set into the rhythm, White and Clarke meved in and took over. White beat out the funky syncopation and Clarke dug out some of the most clever and intricate bass lines ever head under the Chapel roof. In breaking away from the realm of electric jazz, \Return to Forever\ played one tune on acoustic instruments, thus pn>Viding a pleasant interlude before returning to the business of playing progressive music. Upon leaving the stage, \RTF\ was brought back on with the cheers of an appreciative audience that was on its feet. For an encore, Corea selectee:! one of his original compositions entitled, \Celebration Suite.\ In this number, DiMeola showed why he is considered among the foremost jazz guitarists in the wotld·today as he reeled off :Jine after line of sparkling solo on his electric guitar . As people filed out of the Chapel after the show, it was obvious that Chick Corea and the Social Committee had admirably delivered what they had paid for: an evening's music, unlike any other ever offered at Union College, and a remarkable performance by a . remarkable group long to be remembered. More· Coffee? Bassist Sta11ley Clarke anchored the progressive sound of Return to Forever. Continued from Page 6 SENIOR RECITAL THURSDAY NIGHT can't help but feel that Bob On Thursday night, May 29, Bernhardt would provide ail even at 8:00 PM in Arts 202, music more memorable experience majors Peter~ Prunner and working in a serious vein. Hershel Raff will present a Playing before Bernhardt was joint senior recital. Juan de Ia Sierra, a' Flamenco Peter Prunner will direct a guitarist of extraordinary talent. chamber string orchestra in the It was unfortunate to see how the . performance of Hovhaness' audience received this 1963 ·PSALM AND FUGUE and a .. LUIGI'S .. I'A .. AIIf -~IN .ltafio.'J - Ainericara Food '1125 UJLfi.ST. than other times when I have seen him. This is ilot unexpected since Bob is now on his way to becoming a professiona.l performer in a world of professionals. I am sure that he even removed some of the polish from his perfonnance for the benefit of the · Union College audience who have come to associate a Bob Bemhatdt performance with a good time, a few jeers and a lot of wom~out graduate of Union. While he Mozart DIVERTIMENTO. played .. there was constant and r-====================-......::._ ______ .....__ loud talking going on. Unless one top 40 sing-alongs. It will be interesting to watch Bernhardt if he returns to Union for another performance. Most of his close friends will be gone and I think that a marked change will appear in Bob Bernhardt's style and programming once he no longer feels obligated to \play to the crowd.\ It was even noticeable this time as he, at several points commented, \I'd like to play a song I want to hear.\ There is no doubt that a coffeehouse with Bob Bernhardt is a delightful experience for he surely is a perfQrmer with enormous stage presence, but I was very near to the front, it. was impossible to clearly hear the beautiful. flowing music Juan • played. Several times, coffeehouse workers and Juan himself asked the audien~ to please refrain from or at least diminish the talking. This had no effect, as many people in the back rudely sustained their obnoxious droning .. Even though he was not the main performer, Juan should · have at least been ·extended the common courtesy tqat is afforded ·. to any performer. What is really distressing is that he was not just.· any performer; his music was good and, unfortunately, · · unappreciated. - . FOil UfJUOi.i: if ~F;- - -.- · lo:rent1ne •• -' AND WINE T~ Jci.e: LPfei1's ...... 51. ...... •· 't t. •• • t t . ., K.estau~ant. ltiJaJSUtet .. Enjuy our ltalltm-Am~ricBn . Cui8iM at· R'tisorrabl~ ·Prier$ · Specialty of . ·the House _; Veal ·~ ~, l .4 ~ ~ . ~ ~ At the Cob*;ef Hay :J..'=r 4 9 + 11 fAnd ~~ T-;.S:lf. M~y3o-r3t oJ- ~:Jo ~ree - OrteGfel br · U~<:,(e Le<L I f Ut!ion Co/leg~ 'Students • ~~ .:11w(~~ Welco~M .. ~~ ~ . • '

.. · CONCORDIENS!S, Wednesday, May 28, 1975 Page 7 BLITHER Anyone interested in being a Varsity Footbal'l Manager please contact Coach Cahill at the Gym (ext. 6284). * * * * The students restoring Steinmetz's 1914 Detroit Electric are holding an organizational meeting for aU those interested in helping next year. Come to our workshop behind Carnegie on Monday, June 2 at 8:30 p.m. Refreshments. will be served. Regardless of experience, you can contribute to this interesting and enjoyable project. * * * * Do not forget to return all Library materials before leaving school. * * * * Thal'lks should go to the Social Committee for reviving an old tradition ... The senior class will be having their last fling June 12 at Valle's Steak House. The Social Committee has , donated $400 along wi•th contributions from other sources to :1 this a success. Buy your tickets now! I * >!< * * Attention all Political S~ience majors! There will be a Political ScieAce Picnic at 12:00, Saturday, May 3 I, rain or shine at the Girling Center. (Transportation wiU be available.) FuUy recovered from the bumps and bruises of last year, the faculty promises an active afternoon of softball, soccer, and/ or football. The student representatives promise lots of beer and food. Cost is $1.50 per person and must be given to Mrs. Kozel in the Political tScience office by Wednesday, May · 28. A show of support must be forthcoming in order that this final event of the year can be a success. * * * * The Mountebanks are scheduling a trip to the American Shakespeare Theatre in Stratford, Connecticut on June 7 to see King Lear, with Morris Carnovsky. Tickets are $5.00 (reduced from $7.50) for good orchestra seats. An excellent production, but the number of seats available is limited. For further informatioR, check notice board in the Green Room Nott Memorial, or call6128. ' * * * * Anyone interested in participating m a revolution m ber'Cal'l R.B. at 370-6597. * * * * An oscilloscope was taken from the Physics DepartmeHt on Thursday, May 15, or Friday, May 16. It was being used . is badly needed, costs $750, and is not iHsured. It is a Hewlett Packard 1220A in a grey plastic case, with a blue screen. Two probes were also taken. The Physics Department · be grateful for any information concerning this. * * * * In Concert: The Union College Women's Glee Club with the Union College Chamber Singers, directed by Mr. Robert Christensen. Sunday, June I, 1975 at 8:00p.m. in Memorial ape!. Admission free. * * * * Anyone from the casts of As You Like It, Our Town, or Plt!dg:es, interested in copies of photographs, please see Cliff Langweiller in 214 Davidson at any time (that is, any reasonable time) or call 346-9342. More Coffee? Continued from Page 6 than other times when I have seen can't help but feel that Bob him. This is not unexpected since Bernhardt would provide an even Bob is now on his way to more memorable experience becoming a professional working in a serious vein. performer in a world of Playing before Bernhardt was professionals. I am sure that he Juan de Ia Sierra, a · Flamenco even removed some of the polish guitarist of extraordinary talent. from his performance for the It was unfortunate to see how the benefit of the Union College audience received this 1963 audience who have come to graduate of Union. While he associate a Bob Bernhardt played. there was constant and performance with a good time, a loud talking going on. Unless one few jeers and a lot of worn~out was very near to the front, it was top 40 sing-alongs. impossible to clearly hear the It will be interesting to watch beautiful, flowing music Juan Bernhardt if he returns to Union played. Several times, coffeehouse for another performance. Most of workers and Juan himself asked his close friends will be gone and the audience to please refrain I think that a marked change will from or at least diminish the appear in Bob Bernhardt's style talking. This had no effect, as and programming once he no many people in the back rudely longer feels obligated to \play to sustained their abnoxious the crowd.\ It was even noticeable droning. Even though he was not this time as he, at several points the main performer, Juan should commented, ''I'd like to play a have at least been ·extended the song I want to hear.\ common courtesy that is afforded There is no doubt that a to any performer. What is really coffeehouse with Bob Bernhardt distressing is that he was not just is a delightful experience for he any performer; his music was surely is a performer with good and, unfortunately, enormous stage presence, but I unappreciated. FOil uQUOR. AND WINE Try JcJce. L~'s .. .,.Slut ....... Flor-en tine Restaurant 101 Jay Street Enjoy our Ito/ion-American · CuisiM tit Reasonable Prices Specialty of ·the House '\7 Veal U~ion College Students Alwav.s W~lcome .. . \ . Performances: Corea dazzles UColl by HAROY TURGIDSON Chick Corea came to Union's Memorial Chapel last weekend and he brought with him one of the most dazzling and electrifying shows ever seen within the confines of that small concert halt Corea had with him, of course, \Return To Forever\ composed of Lenny White on d nuns, Stanley Clarke on bass, AI DiMeola on guitar, and Corea llimself directing the musical excursion frorn within his fortress of electric organ, piano, synthesizer, Arp, and acoustic piano. The show kicked off with '\Day Ride,\ and Corea immediately took control of the audience. Everyone watched spellbound as Corea made his instruments wail unearthly sounds and play well- coHceived and executed music. After the initial shock of Corea everyone settled in; as much at least, as one can settle with Chick Corea on stage. \Return to Forever\ then played an original Corea composition entitled, \Dance\. The song was highlighted at several points by DiMeola dueling back and forth with Corea as the two musicians seemed to be playing a game of \top th,is if you can.\ The song was also the audience's first glimpse of Lenny White's prowess as he ripped off chains of precision high speed drumming which were utterly amazing. The next tune \Sophistofunk called in the assistance of the Arp, which is a synthetic instrument capable of generating an artifical rhythm. ONce the Arp was set into the rhythm, White and Clarke moved in and took over. White beat out the funky syncopation and Clarke dug out some of the most clever and intricate bass lines ever head 1:1nder the Chapel roof. IR breaking away from the realm of electric jazz, \Return to Forever\ played one tune on acoustic instruments, thus providing a pleasant interlude before returning to the business of playing progressive music. Upon leaving the stage, \RTF\ was brought back on with the cheers of an appreciative audience that was on its feet. For an encore, Corea selected one of his original compositions entitled, \Celebration Suite.\ In this number, DiMeola showed why he is considered among the foremost jazz guitarists in the world today as he reeled off line after line of sparkling solo on his electric guitar. As people filed out of the Chapel after the show, it was obvious that Chick Corea and the Social Committee had admirably delivered what they had paid for: an evening's music, unlike any other ever offered at Union College, and a remarkable performance by a remarkable group long to be remembered. Bassist Stanley Clarke anchored the progressive sound of Return to Forever. SENIOR RECITAL THURSDAY NIGHT On Thursday night, May 29, at 8:00 PM in Arts 202, music majors Peter Prunner and Hershel Ratf will present a joint senior recital. Peter Prunner will direct a chamber string orchestra in the performance of Hovhaness' PSALM AND FUGUE and a Mozart DIVERTIMENTO. LUIGI'S -TA-Aift ~~-~ ltaliG'- American Food '1125 lAdEt I ST. SC1BECTADY 016..97 ~ At tbeG9b*;e.t f1~y ;tCf 4-CJ+/I :·A vd fri -t .~f. M~y.3o -r3/ d- t ~3o ~ree g.----r~ OireC.tei b't U~&<,(e Le5l- • I I

·page8 CONCORDIE_NSIS, Wednesday May 28, 1975 Thank You-Women] • .,. '1ff.t . . 'f:iS~ , \.~;;~~~ \ \' Sports Shorts Women's SoftbaJI. Intramurals - In recent playoff semifinal contests played Monday, May 26, the Foxy Ladies (of 2nd floor) beat' 3rd floor West; and 2nd floor Richmond shut-out Smith House. The final .·championship game will be played Wednesday at 4:30 on Library field. Seniors -Gymnasium baskets , and Rolls must be returned to the Equipment Cage by Friday, June 6th. ' All those not turned in by that date will be billed $35.00. Girling Pool Open - The Girting Pool is now open. Gamet U:zcrosse finished season on winning note defeating Dartmouth. In action for the final time was C.D. M. V.P. 1 Swimming hours are Monday- Friday from I :00-6:00 pm and Saturday-Sunday from 11:00- 6:00. The pool is open to aU students, faculty, staff and families. $1.00 per person, per day. Bob Grossman Girls to Sing by MARCIA PODGORSKI The Union ~ollege Women's Glee Club and the Union College Chamber Singers will close the season witll a concert in Memorial Chapel on Sunday evening, June I, at 8:00 p;m. Directed by Robert A. Christensen, the· groups will perform a wide variety of works. The' Women's Glee Club will sing a set of folk songs having various origins. including the French- Canadian song, ''Aupres de ma blonde,\ arranged by Hawley Adcs: the haunting Irish folk song. \I See The Moon,\ t THE FILM 1 COMMITTEE PRESENTS t FRITZ ' • t THE CAT • t t FRIDAY, MAY 30 • 10:00 and 11:30 . . SAT., MAY 31,8:00, 10:&0 • SUNDAY, JUNE 1 • 8:00, IJ:31), 11:00 1 75¢ SS016 ~ • ~ arranged by Chester G. Osborne; and \See The Gypsies,\ a vibrant Hungarian folk tune by Zoltan Kodaly. The women will also sing five love . songs written by · Johannes Brahms. the beautiful \Summertime\ from the George Gershwin nusical, \Porgy and Bess,\ two selections by Aaron Copland. and several other assorted works. The Chamber Singers' program includes Vecchi's \Fa Una Canzone.\ Gallus' \Ascendit Deus,\ Handel\s \Come Let Us All a-Maying Go,\ Schein's ''Who With Grieving Soweth\ and the amusing \thing-a-Ring Chaw\ by Aaron fopland. In it~ first year of t:\i~tcnc~. th~ ~nt:n member group is uniq.ue in that it is composed or students and faculty memhets. '~ I regret I was unable to make your first Annual Sp<Jrts. Banquet, but wish to thank you all sincerely for your plaque. It was a great honor for me to have had the privilege of working with you in your first year of .competition. However, I would like to point out that it was you !lirls who did aU the work. · Starting last year the seniors of J 97 4 along with all of you liave gone out an(! proven that sports for women is meant siucerely and is not a fad to get something. A year of hard work getting matches. with other teams and encouraging each other to participate proved your sincerity to the College and student body and that you were ready to proceed on an· Inter- Collegiate level. In turn both the student body and the College were able to see the money spent on your programs were il. good investment. The seniors -of ,'74 and '75 can be pr:oud of the net res1dts and in turn they are leaving high Athletic Questionnaire - An Athletic questionnaire will be given out to random sample of students. Thus·· is a chance for 1 students to have an input into next years pro gram. . Cycle Champ - Who's tl~e best cyclist on campus? Ken Mackenzie! Ken vvon both the one lap and three lap sprint races last Saturday in 3:19 and 8:38.6 respectively. Ken also anchored - the winning relay team ef Levine, Cohen, Keirson, and Mackenzie. Placing second and third in the one lap sprint race were Dreas Nielsen and Greg Cohen respectively. Craig Diamond, Horace Thon1pson and Chet Karwatowski were entered in the three lap race with Karwatowski placing second and Nielsen taking third. ID's Will Be Required ~ Formed during the 1973-1974 school year, the Women's Glee Club has given at least one major concert per term (the most recent being \The Magnificat\ with the R.P.I. Men's Glee Club), as well as several smaller performances (such as the Parents' Weekend Afternoon Concert). There ::tre presently twenty members in the Club and plans are being made to recruit additional members in the fall. Mr. Christensen will be back as director in September and he anticipates that the club will double in size by then. Arrangements are presently being made for the many concerts (some in combination with other choral groUJ)s) to be given during the cot11ing school year. The Union women now stand tall on Garnet athletic fields. - .. - _4 standards for the ot-her women to carry on. We all can lean~ from this g.reat example of participating in projects where the. greatest satisfaction is gained throUogh accomplishment rather than waiting fqr it to be handed out. My one .regret is that Mr. John Vaneck did not live to see this spring 1 s results, A firm believer in co-education at Union he died a month before Union's first full four-year· co~ed class graduated. He was a firm believer in sports · and' felt that c0mpetition in sports.. and hard work were· a person~$ . greatest means for relaxation and for releasing frustration and tension. I feel all of Union is proud. · Yol). looked sharp, played hard and yeur atthw:te in winning ;:ind losing was above reproach. I look fGrward to many more years of wm:king with you an<!. Wa:tching you expand, Sincerely yours, Bob Baseball End .500 The Garnet nine rebounded from a frustrating .start. to finish the season at the .500 mark with a 7-7 won-lost record, Th.e impressive resurgence was l'ed hy the hot bats of Gary Borgese, Randy Ruschak, John Busterud, . and Co..captain Ron Westbrook. Ronny led the team in stolen bases with nine while Geese bit a tmrid .433, tops on the squad. Busterud led the team in RBI's plating nineteen. The pitching staff began the season slowly dtie in part to inclement weather. Once the Schenectady clouds cleared however. the hurlers performed to their potential. Co-captiart Joe Urschel and Charlie Flanigan lead the team in wins with three each while freshman Chuck Lampson recorded the other victory. Maurice8.- Graubart & Sons For three Generations 166 Jay• St. For Honest Servic !. · · · And Good Jewelry . - - --· - THE FILM t COMMITTEE • ' . PRESENTS Treasure Of Sierra Madr-e ' 1 JUNE3 . t 8:00 and 10:00 2.5~ S.S016 ' .... ·---- -· •.',.

i ss I lSi, 170 ll (S 113, (El 312M ' 310, 104 11 SH ~- 115, ~. (The .IJ' I• <i lj (West~r, . · . Cen tllri · · . :· ... (Readingt FJ ) 010, H: Etholo~ ( Quar~'..ti • ,1 f) 100 (01 Values~; 24 c s~c; · Ill (BioJ 110, ... Vol. 3, No. 11 Editor's Prerogative It has always been hard for me to fathom that there ate some people who just work for the hell of it; I have been told that these people find work a: challenge, the fulfillment of a lifelong dream, and just downright meaningful. YEAH, so I've been told. Sure, J. ·P~ml Getty works at being ·rich .. 'But there are still a few of us left who work to pay the rent, feed our faces, and clothe rour backs. (just the everyday things.) However, if you are Black, and a woman, work is something you do to sur,vive. All this is done in order to keep your friendly welfare department from breathing down your necks. Sure, work should be fun and fulfilling and rewarding . and all that stuff, but in reality, we work because we must! Ever since I was a kid, (how time flies) I knew that without a .shadow of a doubt, I would have to seek employment in the ''hostile\ job market. Sure I was aware that there were some women who didn't work, never had worked, and never would work. After watching Nancy Hughes on \As the World Turns,\ the role of the woman as the housewife stuck keenly in my mind. But none of these women were Black. The Black women I knew worked, and I do mean worked! These women· labored as maids, cooks, seamstresses, and in other fields. Up at the crack of dawn; home at sunset to do still more work. Cleaning their homes, cooking their meals, tending their children, washing and ironing and mending. And that khowledge did not endear me to the Nancy Hughes' of the wurld. My Aquarian nature leans towards idealism, but t.he realities of the world force me to prepare myself for a job. At Continued on Page 8 High Blood Pressure Healt.hwise, hypertension, those 60,000 Americans who will ~,hich is' the formal medical term die from hypertension, 13,500 will fQr high b}ood pressure, has been be Black. · g<rtting a lot of publicity as public To add to this bewilderment, ertemy··number one in the Black there may be a catch to this. The c~mmunity. Due to this onrush of first data gathered by a massive p~blicity, a massive education study of hypertension directed by program was launched by the Dr. Ernest M. Harburg of the National Heart and Lung University of Michigan, showed Institute. This campaign by the that the incidence of high blood Institute has in turn triggered a pressure among middle-class new understanding of how Blacks is practically no higher dangerous hypertension really is. . than among middle-class whites, Ironically, hypertension is one lf this fact is ever validated, of the easiest diseases to detect. hypertension may appear to be a ' A couple 'of minutes in the disease that only strikes Blacks in doctor's office with an inflatable the ghetto. cuff wrapped around your arm is The great medical brains can allittakestotellifyouhaveit.lt hardly be accused of is also one of the easiest diseases discrimination, .for they don't to control. In most cases, a pill a · know why anybody gets high day, and a less active physical life blood pressure - Black or white, will bring high blood pressure young or old, male or female, down and keep it down. (and even those who can't identify However, high blood pressure with this list.) is also one of the easiest diseases Medical researchers do know to ignore, for it is almost some things a,bout hypertension. symptomless. You can have it for lt is known that high blood years, and feel fine. Of ·the 23 pressure generally runs in million people ·who suffer with families. The e'lidence for this hypertension, more tban half 1 medical find is so strong that it don't realize that they have it, and · points to a genetic factor. very few are receiving some type Psychological stress appears to be of 111edical treatment for their ·a major contributing factor to disease. . hypertension - perhaps the most Undetected and uncontrolled, important of all- and too much hypertension can easily become a salt in your diet may be another. . crippler and even a killer. It is a And to add to this list two of the leading cause of heart disease, body's most deadly villains may strokes, and kidney diseases. It be causal factors in creating can also cause blindness. It is the hypertension. Those two are direct cause of death for some overweight and a lack of proper 60,000 Americans a year. exercise. Confronted with all Not the least of many puzzles these alternatives, mos.t about hypertension is that, of researchers lean towards the those 23 million Americans who \mosaic theory\ - that there is suffer with hypertension, a totally no single cause for hypertension, disprop6rtionatt) five to six but rather an interacting complex million are Black. No one knows of causes. why. but at 28 percent the Generally, the hereditary aspect incidence of high blood pressure of hypertension remains the among Blacks of all ages in this biggest mystery of them all. No country is just about tWice as high gene or set of genes that causes as among whites (about fifteen high blood pressure has yet been percent). Among Blacks over 40, the rate exceeds one in three. Of ( ontinued on Page B ....- Wednesday, May 28, 1975 Mareh On Boston It was a long. hat, march Remember the struf(f(le, as the march begins Jim Crow is not dead. He has ·recovered from his wounds of the 1950's and 60's and is stronger than before. He has mastered the art of disguise. He has been seen all across the country. And in 1975, we have seen him in Boston. But he has made one mistake in Boston; he failed to disguise .himself. He is naked and out in the open. Boston, the birthplace of democracy, maintains one of the most thoroughly segregated public school systems in the world. The 1974-75 school year has been marked by repeated acts of mob yiolence against defenseless Black children· attending the South Boston public schools. These criminal acts go unpunished and are sanctioned by powerful officials · in the Boston government and on the Boston school board. These atrocities by white ra~tists are further condoned by Ford's failure to fulfill his presidential oath and uphold the constitution of the United State~. which _guarantees equal rights to aU. Consequently, movements have been organized by such human rights organizations , as· . the NAACP, the National Student Coalition Against Racism, and others to desegregate the schools and keep the buses rolling in Boston. On May 17th, 450 buses and 5 chartered jets from as far as Los Angeles, converged upon the city of Boston. The passengers along with some Bostonians assembled to form an estimated mass of 25.000 and marched to the Boston Commons demanding the equal education of Black children, a right given by the Supreme Court in 1954 in the Brown vs. the Board of Education of Topeka, Kansas decision, Their rally cry was \Twenty-one years is too long to wait.\ But actually Boston Blacks have been waiting a lot longer than twenty one years. ln 1787, Black citizens of Boston demanded equal education for their children, but were denied. Therefore, Black Bostonians have not been waiting twenty one years, but have been waiting for one hundred and eighty-eight years. And that is definitely too long to wait. The same racist mentality which founded the J(KK, the American Nazis and other diseased organizations maintain the segregated nature of the Boston schools; a mentality falsely believed to be peculiar to the South. The myth of the liberal New Englander and the myth of geographically bounded racism are refuted by Jim Crow's presence in the \cradle of liberty.\ The purpose of the May 17th rally was to begin to rock the cradle in order to shake Jim Crow out; and in the words of Tom Atkins, head of the Boston NAACP, who led the March on Boston, \put liberty back in .. But to shake Jim Crow out of the cradle of liberty will only give him a nasty bump on the head. Jim Crow must die. To kill Jim Crow, masses of people must be mobilized. no.t just twenty-five thousand but twenty-five million. B.S.A. Elects New , Officers Last Thursday, members of the Black Student Alliance elected new officers for 1975-76. Suspense engulfed the lounge of Hickok House as outgoing secretary Marilyn Becton announced the winners. Those Individuals include: William Arnold Collins, Co- Chairman; Leonard Duane Lee, Co-Chairman; Phyllis James, Secretary; and Gloria Vanita Jones. Treasurer. These are the people who make up the steering committee of the Alliance. Their main job is to ably represent the views and ideas of the entire Alliance effectively. For those of you who don't know, Bill and Gloria did such a marvelous job for the '74-'75 session, that ·they were re-elected. Leonard and Phyllis ·are newcomers to positions of leadership in · tne B.S.A. but this reporter can attest to their qualifications for the jol> . Elections· for- new -committee heads were held also. These · . committees include the Social and Cultural Committee, Technical Committee, Darkroom chairman, and librarian for the Alliance's Information Center. The duties of the Social- Cultural chairman are varied and difficult. Their work entails the scheduling of all social functions for minorities on campus, and those whites who are \interested\ in coming. Besides all of that, it is also their job to make The Black House a true cultural center. They must accomplish this by trying to organize concerned members to expend their time and effort on creating art that is representative of Black people. l.t is for these reasons that it was decided that this position was just too much for one person. So, it was decided that two people should hold this post. The two new chairpersons. are Edgar S. Duhart and Amanda Fuller. The Technical Committee head must be a person who has a complete knowledge of sound equipment, camera techniq1,1es, you know, all that technical stuff . Now who else is capable of handling this job but that whiz- kid himself, Anthony Merrill. Good luck, Tony! The head of the darkroom must be responsible for all the equipment in the darkroom of the Black Student Alliance. Poor Bill o~llins. it is .a wonder that you don't turn into an instamatic, for you. h~ve been elected! The Information Center chairperson must keep the library of the Alliance in tip-top order. This person must also keep Continued on Page B i ~ : ~ ' . '

PageB PERSPECTIVE, Wednesday, May 28~ 1:975 Who We Are Editor ..................................... Marilyn Vannessa Becton Cultural Editor ~····••••••o• .. •• .. •••••••·••••••• .. Sadama N·. Hom$ Poetry Department ..•.••..•........ Aseba B. Harris, Tamara · . and Chocolate Milk Photography Department .......... William Arnold Collins . · and Milton Smith General Writers ., ........... &1 ............. ~····-···· .. t?·n-Gioria Jones, Brian James Smart, Gail Chatman, Stephen Brooks Lewis, and Sisterly Love. Sp~eial Thanks to ................... Catherine Yvonne Smith, Leonard Duane Lee, and Jay l(ing. Special, Special, Thanks to ............................... Norbert, · Raymond, and Carlos Friends Well the end of the term has almost arrived. lam quite sure that practically all of us are ecstatic about that. (I know I am) The last time I was home, was in the winter of 1974. And since that time, the Mississippi River has risen to an all time high, the state of Tennessee has elected a new govemor,. my high school has become 60% white, and \Another World\ has been lengthened to a full hour. If that is not enough to make your head swim, I don~t know what will! As anxious as I am about going home, I wiH miss one aspect of my life at Union College during the summer, that aspect being mY friends. And I would like to dedicate this article to those people who made life somewhat bearable at U.C. Everybody has friends, but I like to believe that mine are of a very special kind, Take Maxine for instance. She is the most goofiest girl I have ever met. She is the type of friend. that will run all the way over to your dorm, at 3:00 in the morning, in 2 degree 'weather to be that shoulder that you cart cry on. And Betty is even wilder than Maxine. She is the type of person who will do practically anything for a laugh. And ·Eugene has all the common sense of a Black Ben Franklin. Without the hilarious antics of Teddy and \the Count\ on the second floor of Hickok, life would have been dull indeed this year. Did you know that Hickok had a movie stat in its midst? Why of course, Billy Dee Williams. He is between movies now, and is currently operating a cab service with a tremendous fare rate. How could I forget Arnold! He tells the most corniest jO\kes that I have ever heard. And towards the end of the year I would like to think that I became friends with a guy named Duane. Because in various conversations with this person, he made me realize that you can't concern yourself with the idle gossip of the \together\ people. And Vanita, who are you wearing those dresses for? There are a lot of people that I failed to mention in this list; I hope that you don't feel that I don't consider you my friend~ I do, its just that I ran out of phony names! One final note. For those of you who find it difficult to deal with others because of their personalities, I suggest that you take a long look at yourself. Because I am of the belief that everyone is worthy of my friendship. (isn't conceit terrible) P.S. I forgot the best friend I had this term, Ferdinand, ------------------------~------------ MVB Continued from Page A this point in ·time, that preparation is in the direction ot a college education, which will hopefully be the stepping stone to a meaningful career in th:e field·of psychology. But compared to other sisters, my life at Union is a bed of roses, because I realize that it is extremely difficult to \earn our daily bread\. And the knowledge that we are still overworked and underpaid, is made even more sour in the face of all the crap we have to take from all types of people. Check it out! By some white standards, we are those \lazy baby machines\ who love to live on welfare, off of their hard- earned money. And if we listen to some Blacks, we are out to snatch jobs out of the clutches of our Black brothers. If you think about it too much, those ideas will ·pick at ~ur brain. You should take them as they are, PURE FANTASY! For those people void of color who believe in the \welfare doctrine,\ I suggest that you quit work, and live on welfare for a couple of months~ I am almost positive that you will soon discover that welfare is definitely not a form of Utopia. (in fact, my father always told me that we supported them.) And for those Blacks who perceive Black women as a threat in the job market, I suggest that you consider the possibility of having a brain transplant. ('cause yours ain't even working right) In essence, I am saying this; sisters, until that day when work is not that \bitter pill\ that we must swallow daily, I am asking that we all make it more than toil. Because for every step that we take forward, there is another sister behind you, so why don't you just lend her a helping hand. Continued from Pa2e A junior Olivette Simmons. . _ abreast of all the latest books that To all those people who were they feel are essential to Blacks at elected, Congratulations, and to Union. The members of the the losers, there is always next B.S.A. have placed their tmst in year. ~~-~rc~~~~~~~ <~ontinued !rom 'Page A pressure and fail to deal with it, it isolated in Blacks or whites. The can definitely kill you. study conducted by Dr. Har.burg 2) The chances are extremely seems to contradict the genetic excellent that if you have to be disposition in Blacks. This is true treated for hypertension, your because of the connection it seems life-style will not dramatically to indicate with socio-economic change. status. However the study did 3) There is no way that the establish a correlation between individual can avoid skin color and hypertension. hypertension. You can lead a very All of these uncertainties can active physical life and still suffer surely boggle the mind, so here ftotn it. are a few things the individual can But there is a sure fire remedy be sure of: HAVE YOUR BLOOD 1) If you have high blood PRESSURE TAKEN% Dear Sisterly Love Dear Sisterly Leve, I'm a small-framed brother who . has a · well-,packed system. I'm looking for a well-framed sister · who has the ability to handle my stuff. I've been checking some of the sisters out, but all that are available seem to think that small things come in small packages. What can l do? Dear Size 10, Signed, Size l~ Oh, my, .. Wear a .pair of tight p~nts, and your advertising should btiing you customers. If, that doesn't wotk ••• Honey, just show .it, stro~e it and row it, ·and maybe someone will '!Orne to know it as you go streaking down the hall. Dear Sisterly Love, The other night, when I was messing around with my main man, I noticed this big, enormous hickie (passion mark) on his neck. I know 1 didn'hput it there, so . what do you think about that? Signed, The T aothless I.~over Dear Tootllless, Well, •• What are you asking me for, I didn't put it tbere. Seril)usly, I think you· !!ihOidd talk to him about it, 11r forever b9lil your peace. (Perhaps, he wouldli~t have those mysterious .passion mau~ks, if business was being taken care .of at home). No offense, sugar. Dear Sisterly Love, I've had a nurn:ber of impromptu slumber parti~s this year, ... all innocent, naturally. However, even though 1 enjoy tbe company of my close friends, at times when l'm in that non- innocent mood, Pd like the .right person to fa:ll in at the. right time and do the right thing. My· problem is first finding the .right person, and second getting rid of my company. What can 1 do? . · Dear Ramada, Signed, Ramada Inn Are you sure you can handle something besides Slumber par.ties? If you can, just hllllg loo5e and I'm sure tllat person will come around. When that person does,. I'm sure your friends will pick up on the signals and· Any Day· of the Week This-is\\ii· story about a certain Saturday But it could really be any other day This is a story about the B.S. A. And how it's really hard to get something When you go about it in a nice way It's not what yo.u think, saw, or heard :t's really what goes down that's so absurd You ask Mountebanks to use their mirror ball What a shame it was given away to someone in Yonkers just 'tnis fall But take a visit to Nott, and upstairs on the table Guess the people in Yonkers were just a fable Dig, it's not just on Saturday But also on every other day That to get something here at U, Coil. .. We have to endure the games our friends down campus play The poem you -have· just B I k T I t read isn't too long or filled . . .a c .. a e n with artistic potential. · Yet read between the lines and you'll find it really has a lot to say. You see, the Black Students' Alliance has a problem in that it is the provider· for 90% of the activities enjoyed by most Black students on Union College's campus; But that isn't the problem, the problem is that the B.S.A. does not own or control all the apparatus or facilities it needs to fill this role successfully. Therefore the Alliance must ask permission for usage of .these things from other S·ources oil campus. Repeatedly we encounter only token cooperation as well as thinly masked deception. The only time we seem to be able to obtain the help we need is when we get bodacious an~ go to the top of the ladder for something that's only on .the fourth rung. There can only be two solutions: either for the B.S.A. to be budgeted $30,000 dollars, which isn't likely, or for the lower rungs to stop sl\pping in and out and playing games that really only annoy. After all I think the top-of the ladder is tired. of our foot treads. Especially since the shoes might soon turn to boots. Something's got to give and leather has a tendency to get very tough. Any day of the week Brian J. Smart On Union College's campus there is very little evidence of the . . find their way back to their own be~s. _ Deal' Sisterly Love, 'I'm a. sister who is in a state of confusion. This brother is.rapping to me very heavily, 'but I'm not sure if he is sincere. l'ni still (blush) a virgin, but I'm considering making him the one. He told me that he used ·tO mn over women, but met £sister wha put him in his ,place. He reali~ed now that he's not \God 1 s gift\ to Black Women,.'and he says he has learned to appreciate us for the sensitive, beautiful ci\eatures we are. Do you really think I can believe where he is coming from, or am I being led up to the ••slaughter?\ Signed, Just Another Victim? Dear Victim?~ You are incr~dibly naive. In .my personal experienc.e! I've heard that rap• at least fifteen times. lt is one of· the most commonly used, unorigiitlll, tired raps around, I seriously doubt that tlie brother is sincere, but you <:an take the dsk if you. realize ·that you might end up in the obituary column of Jove. ·-·------.-\'!\ __ _ artistic talent possessed by nlack Students here. However the light is beginning to siline. The glow is coming from the first floor hallway in Hickok. A mural, \Ferdinand's Paradise\ is graCing the wall. Designed by Aseba B. Harris and painted by herself and Cathy Smith, it is Black ta:lent, pure and simple. So thetef0re Brothers and Sisters, when you're feeling down, check out. \Ferdinand's Paradise.\ It's filled with inspiration. However, · it doesn't stop there. lf your head is right and you feel like being taken on a mind trip ease on up the stairs and there you will. e!!:.£~Unter an art . work. b;Y Gail Cbatman. Be careful though, :11 could just blow your mind. If k does. tum around and iake a trip (·ontinlK!d on Page \C This Friday, May 30, fhe Black Student Alliance · will present its Photo· Art- Sculptor ~exhibit . . The show will b,e held on the first floor lounge of Htckok House at 5:00 pcm. AU are ·welcome and admission is free .. t! •• . . ..

/ I •• ·.Exploration and·Westward ~xpansi.on (Reference: Afro-A,.m~ric~n explorers, trappers, settlers from 1819: Under intense pressure trom History (Teacher'$ Edition), by the coastal colonies begap even slaveholders who llated the Mildred J. ZimmermaQ, State of before the Revolution, but it existence ef haven for their slaves. New York Department of Social gathered momentum .a,fter the Negro-I;ndian resistance made it SeJ'v.ices, pp. 23-25) War of Independence. Free necessary for the U.S. Afro-Americans have played Negroe!! and runaway slaves were governrn.ent to fight three active roles in the history of the active in this movement from the SemiQ.ole Wars, the last of which Western frontier since the 1530's. beginning. An educated Negro lasted eight years (from 1835 to The Spanish and Portuguese trader, John Baptiste Pointe de 1842), cost the . army 1500 explorations in the New World Sable, founded the city of soldiers, and was the most almost always included Neg,;oes, Chicago in 1719. ~Local Indians expensive indian war in Ameiican as scouts, slaves, or fighters. Fm used to joke that the first white history, if, indeed it can be example, there were Black men man in their country had been a considered an Indian war. The with Balboa when he reached the Black man.) The Lewi~ and Clark general ofthe U.S. forces wrote at Pacific and with Cortez when he expedition included a black slave that time: \This you may be conquered Mexico. Negroes named York; his services as a assured, is a Negro, not an Indian accompanied every PortQgpese scout and interpreter were so war.\ and Spanish expedition into the valuable that Clark freed -him Afro-Americans in the Far area which is now the United after the trip. There were also · West were not all scouts and States, ·and_ they played a vital Black ''Mountain Men\ in the Indian fighters. Some of the most role in the extension of Spanish early nineteenth. century. The best successfuf- inisSl.onaries -- io the influence north fFom Mexico. known were Moses \Black\ I:ndians were American Negroes. · Most .of the soldiers on the Harris and Edward Rose, Who A large group of Negroes crossed Mexican frontier were Africans or explored; as far west as the · the Rockies during the rush for mulattoes. Some ·of the Spanish- Oregon territory. California gold. There were speaking Blacks were slaves or ex- -· -J'ames Beckwourth was one .of several thousand \Forty-Niners slaves from the West Indies;. some the Black heroes of the West. He a few of them slaves of white were free Muslims of African fled from slavery as a young man, miners, but most -of them free descent from Spain itself. was taken into the Crow tribe, Negroes. In the early rough-and- An African .Muslim named and led the Indians in many tumble days of the mining camps, Estevanico (or Est~ban)_ was one battles. The Black Crow chief alsq Negroes met little overt .of the most famous explorer~ of discovered an important route discrimination. Then, as gold this early period. He Was an through the Sierra Madre: the became more scarce and frontier advisor to Cortez in Mexico, the Beckwourth pass. He later settled society became more established, first non-Indian to enter New down, but was reputedly Black miners were gradually · Mexico, and the guide for. an murdered by his Crow followers squeezed out of the most expedition to search for the for having deserted them. productive sites. Most of them .. Seven Cities of Gold.\ He was Beckwourth's relationship with found other jobs and remained in . killed during this expedition, in the Indians illustrates an California. 1539, but even centuries later the important theme· in the saga ol Another type of Black Zuni Indians of the area told of the Negro on the frontier. Many migration westward was under the Black explorer in their stories Negroes were taken into Indian way during the first half of the ::!nd histories. tribes; Black men and Red men nineteenth century. The growtb of Many Negroes settled in found they collid make common the Cotton Kingdom in the Deep California during the Spanish cause against a white enemy. South led to the expansion of the period. ay the late eighteenth (This was a very old story in the slave system across the century, approximately one West: in 1502 the governor of Mississippi River. The rich delta quarter of all Spanish speaking Mexico complained. that African area of Louisiana became peoples in.•lower California were slaves \fled among the Indians plantation country, and of African descent. Los Angeles and taught them bad customs and slaveholders continued to push Wl!.S an Afro-American town more would never be recaptured.\) west. From the 1820's on, large than a hundred and fifty years From New England to California, numbers of slaves were brought ago' over half its original settlers from the time of the Pilgrims into Texas. Some Southerners were alack, and most of the rest until the Civil War, runaway carried their slaves even further were Indian or part Indian. In .slaves sought refuge in Indian west, into Arizona and California, 1830 · and · t83l the California villages, raised \Afro-Indian\ in their search for cotton land. territory had a Black governor children, and fought alongside During the 1850's, planters moved named Manuel Victoria. The their Red brothers. their human property into earliest Afro-Americans in the The classic example of Negro-. Kansas, in an effort to establish a Far West were, of ceurse, all IJ?.dian. cooperation involves the claim for slavery in the state. Spanish..,speakin.g, and they \Black Seminoles\ of Florida. Slave expansionism and the blended easily into the hybrid Spanish Florida was a refuge for contest for control of the western Indian-African-Spanish society of generations of fugitives from territories became a major issue in the frontier. The first English- southern slavery, and many of the growing conflict between speaking Negro and the first these runaways were taken into North and South. English-speaking white man to the seminole tribe. (In fact, the The \free states\ of the mid- settle permanently in California word \seminole\. means runaway west were also being opened for arrived the same year - 1816. in the Greek ianguage.) The settlement· during this period. The westward us.h of United States bought Florida in They, however represented no Fi.fty Pounds of Trouble the Security desegregation march in Boston Department at Union College and everybody else I couldn't find. BtJt, believe me, if there were by SADAMA N. ROMS any brothers around they would Two weeks ago I was to cook a certainly make it a poiat to help Spanish meal for 60 people. I haq me before I would call y'all.\ give Mr. ·s.M. a look. Again, he didn't even ask me if I needed help which was obvious that l did. So, to you Mr. S.M., at least you could have been a gentleman. land of opportunity ·for Aim- Americans. The new frontier states were determined to keep oui: slavery, but they wanted to exclude free Negroes as well. One after .another, the free states passed laws prohibiting or restricting the immigration of Negroes. Where Black people were allowed to settle they usually encountered discriminatory laws and practices and social se gre ga·t ion. \W es t:e rn democracy,\ in general, was 'lily- white. Racism and Jim Crow moved steadily westward, all the way to the Pacific. California in 1849 passed a law w:hich disenfranchised persons of African or part-African ancestry, thus marking the end of over three hundred years of relative r.acial tolerance in that region. Security How ma1;1y times have you called Security during the day, and received a response like, ··well Security is tied up right now, but I'll send them as soon as they are free.\ Have you ever wondered what Security was doing at those times? Well this term I saw a sample of Security being busy. On one occasion I saw security sit in the parking lot of Hickok for over an hour, and he did nothing! Another time I sat and watched as one security officer leaned against his car, while his partner played basketball behind the fieldhouse. Oh, there must be something very interesting happening in the fieldhouse, because Security is there every day, and all day. If this is an example of our security force at work, no wonder things are always missing around here. Gloria .JoBes . I would like to take this me about them. opportunity to thank all the Along with your backing and · people who ·supported me in my support to ~ake up for my l~ck election as Co-Chairman of the of expenence a~d quick Black Student Alliance at Union temperament, I am qmt.e sure th~t College. And to those who did my -tenure as Co-Chairman will not support me, 1 hope that be, a su~c:ssful one .. Y o~r support through time, hard work, and wtll deflmtely be appreciated, and determination. I will earn your my best as always can be backing as Co-Chairman. For it is expected. only through your support, that . Thank you, we can make the Black Student Leonard D. Lee Alliance 'an organization of unity Note: l would and strength, because these are congratu\tate Bill, Gloria, Phyllis, ,the foundations upon which all Edgar, Amanda, Tony and organizations of struggle should Olivette upon their victories in the be built. recent elections. And I would also If there are any inquiries as to like to commend Ms. Marilyn my plans and expectatfens for Becton for her outstanding job as next year, please feel free to ask editor of Perspective. picked up supplies from West Then Mr. S.M. said that if that College and· was back at Hickok was the case I should have called House when I realized I had Mr. Keinkhauf the day before to forgotten a •box. So back I we.nt let him know I needed his to West to pick up the forgotten services. He claimed he was doing box; only to find that it weighed me a favor taking me and my 50 50 pounds. I guess I could have pound box up to Hickok, but as tied a rope around the box and far as security was concerned, could have dragged it back to young ladies. were to be escorted Hickok. But realizing that such a only at night! (In my opinion if spectacle would negate ••the you're Black and/or a woman thb polish\ 1 am s1Lpposed to have campus is as dange.rous during acquired here. I decided to call the day as it is at night!) At this security for a ride. And this is point we reached Hickok and he where my story really begins. asked me my name and l told him Security got there artd I had to that the next time I had to carry a carry my 50 p01md box myself to 50 pognd box to Hickok and no the car. (No! 1 don't believe in one was around to help, that I woman's lib. I'm not strong would take a taxi and charge it to enough.) After I dragged the box President Bonner. (As a matter of onto the car seat I sat down. On fact, the next day another sister the way to Hickok the security .. and I went to West and so we man (Mr. S.M.) started talking wouldn't hear anymore shit from trash. He began by saying that security we w,aiked to Hickok .. I Security was not an escort service carried two glass punch bowls nor a taxi company. Then he and she carried a coffee urn.) asked why no one from the house Once again I got out of the car would help me. and picked up (not very Right now, I am not only disappointed with the Security _ .Departnient at Union College, but am also thoroughly disgusted. 116D•r•••\ (star of ~That's My Mama .. ) speaking at Boston Rallv \Well I said, \almost successfully) IllY 50 pound box everybody went to the and literalrv .. forced myself not. to Chick Corea vn Saturday, May 24th ·'sophistifunk\ came to Memorial Chapel. It s prophets Chick Corea, Stanley Clarke, AI DiMeola, and Lenny White, known collectively as Return to Forever, thoroughly entertained a near capacity audience. The opening act, Hamilton Bates, got the night moving with journeyman musicianship on several intricate tunes. The guitar player, who commanded visual attention by his height, proved capable of commanding audial attention by his adept playing. The group also featured a. female lead singer. St>e seemed to have a limited vocal range, but made up for that deficiency with a voice full of feeling that seemed to be reaching out into the audience • and touching each individual. However it was Return to Forever that the people had come to see. One could feel the anticipation mounting as the stage crew made the few necessary changes prior to their arrival on stage. Then there they were and the applause rose to crescendo levels. Tlleir advanced billings said they were planning to have fun and entertain with some good music. That's exactly what :they did. With Corea, and Clarke, and Ditneola exchanging and playing simultaneous solos it was obvious in their manner that they were · having fun While even though during most of the numbers such as Vulcan Worlds, Sophtstifunk, and Dayride, the audience for the most part sat immobile - their appreciation manifested itself at .the end of each song, or at the conclusion of superb solos done by drummer Lenny Whtte as Well as the rest of Return to Forever. All in all their performance here at Union College could have only served to strengthen their standing as virtuoso performers and musical innovators in the minds of all who were fortunate _enough to have s.een this concert. ( ontinued from Page B through the zodiac. It that was too much then stretch your legs out and slide down the bannister back to the first floor and head to the end of the hall. Just around the comer you'll find some really soothing lines courtesy of Gloria Jones. They just sort of roll along and should. ease all your tensions away. Just remember the place is Hickok House and the time is whenever you're ready.

PERS!'£CTlV£, Wednesday, May 28, 1975 .Poetry Who is the six million dollar lady? Bee-u-tee-ful center of pleasure, dreams of Utopia ... warmth greater than Satan's creation ... captivating as Africa is Black ... WHO IS IT? understanding, the definition created for no other Rich in spirit and soul, as Malcolm X was Exuberance, ecstasy, passion and pain, that grabs at the center of my manhood. WHO IS IT? Grabbing at my Black skin, Sofia with breasts full of hills ... NA W Everything and more, she means to me, you. the essence of life and love! Mine yes .... Yours yes! WHO IS IT? Some say that she exploits me, Sure, so I exploit her Because of lack of Identity, lack of culture? now ... WHO IS IT? Could it be white liberation, from Black scorn of 200 years and more .... Naw, ITS YOU! CHOCOLATE MILK, 'Committed to: Anguish .and Cfncertainty A Stage The whole world ·is a stage, And everybody plays apart. The stage is set the curtain goes up, the scene is the emergenc!e of a powerful world Act ·I many are coming to this new found land with hopes and qreams of a beautiful future. Act If upon theit arrival, malevolence an-d struggle waiting on shore to extend welc.ome . Act IIi many have found despair instead of hopes and dreams, many revolt against this new found land. the whole world is a stage And everybody plays a part the stage is set- the curtain goes up- the scene is a once powerful world descending. ... Act I revolts ha~e_conti:t~ued, and major wats hav~ been fought Act II desolutien and unhappiness have oecome deeply rooted within the peoples of this once powerful world Act III the people resolve: ONLY THROUGH UNDERSTANDING AND TOGE-THI}RNESS ON THE PART OF ALL THE PEOPLE OF TfiiS NEW-FOUND LAND CAN . ATTEMPTS BE MADE TO RECTIFY THIS ONCE POWERFUL !WORLD! / The whole world is a stage And everybody plays a part The stage is set- the curtain goes up- the scene I leave up to you~ THE PLAYERS TAMARA Cry Out Cry out children of tomorrow For time waits for no one ... and You hold the key to future happiness. Cry out children of tomorrow Make your cries be heard throughout this land. You hold the key to future salvation. Cry out childr~n of tomorrow For today has come and gone leaving much despair And there seems to be no hope for future happiness and future salvation 't TAMARA ·wha·t . ' ' • IS Bla.ck . . '- ·jj..,/'A.\' ..._~ . ~·. <.J'.:;,.-1',<&,;- .. ';, ~,.: Jt#:l:• ' . Page 1J .Poetry ' '\ Blaek£hild Black child growing strong Black child doing wrong . Black child trying hard Black child shown disregard Black child realizing that maybe life's an effortless struggle. · · Black child-beating down- being Black growing up with less than the essentials finding themselves not to be the chiklren anymore having to maintain their Blackness Black child now Black Man or Black Woman. Black child has grown strong Black child has been done a wrong Black child still tryin hard Black child still shown disregard, TAMARA Black is·lmowmg that 'being called ''Brother or Sister\ does not ref~r to any member of a m·onastery .or convent. Bla~k is knowing t~at the ~·soul Train\ is not a train. headed for the capitol ·or Korea .•. And that .setting on : the goodfoot has nothing to do with being cripple. Ulack is knowins that lady Day refers to the lady of the blues and not to any day set a·side for women. 81acl( is knowihg that Super Fly is . .not the cousin of Atom Ant. Ulack . is knowing that the Ali Shuffle has nothing to d..o with dealing card$. Black is kno)V'ing that \bad\ is really very good... · Anp that \heavy\ cannot be measured by a cup or a spoon. Black is knowing that \Black Ivory\ is n{)t on a piano ... And the Dramatics is not a thespian art. Ulack is knowing that a colored person must be one colored with crayons... because it certainly can't refer to you . . Black is n9t having to define Blackness ... but knowing that you are. · U.TAMU Dinner On Sunday, May 18, the members .of the Black Student Alliance had an experience in good .eating. For on that n~emorable date, the members of the Alliance were treated to \Una Noche de Comida Espanola.\ The meal was excellently prepared by the best Spanish cook in these parts, Sadama N. Horns, with the aid of B.S.A. treasurer, Gloria Vanita Jones. The meal consisted of a~;roz con polio, (for you gringos out there, arroz con pollo is chicken with rice) a salad, made by the nimble fingers of Gail Vannessa Chatman, and for dessert, variou-s types of cakes· and delicious chocolate chip cookies. (I wonder who made those cookies?) These who attended the dinner definitely enjoyed the marvelous meal, and for those who could not make it, I can only pity your taste buds, for they will never experience such fine food. .:;r ~·fo. . IIIj '· ' r· vJet .::> • '4i. evme · : 1 ~·{Civil J ;p ,1. 'h ' ~dividua l ..

