... , St~pport our B~Bail teliln· this• weekend and: head over to Williams ..,.. Oh yeh! All women,. students~ faculty,. administrators and staff open· meeting, Friday, lZ-1:30 in· SS0l6 on 'Womens Contmis!iion. CfJngratulatioiis President Bonner on Forthcoming Marriage Vol. 104, No. 11l Wedl)esday, January 15, 1975 35 cents Unique Symposium features. Emine.nt Scholars. in Hiring New Coaches Ph~ Beta Kappa Marathon Open to .All Enrollment Limited One of the mo$t noteworthy and unique events in Union College history is coming this term. On February 13 and 14, fifteen young and. exciting professors, two of the most respected speakeFs in the country, a banquet at the Ramada Inn, and a host of provocative discussion groups will combine to offer all V,nion students the opportunity of participating in a symposium on '\The Nature of Human Personality.\ On the night of Thursday the 13th, t-he discussion · groups will ~egin the .symposium. The most important element .emphasized. in these groups will be their informality. First, they will be Following a clash with the administration, Frank Gado, named head of the English- Department after Patrick Kilburn's death last spring, r~signed as chairman. At· present, the depaitment is being run hy a com:tnittee of tenured faculty members. Ruth Stevenson, -havjng received a unanimous nomination by members o! the department, has ve'rbaliy accepted the chairmanship. A formal acceptance is ex,pected: shortly. Next we~k: The story behind the resignation. held • in various dorms and fraternities , throughout . the campus. Second, they will be led by r.rofessors from schools in the northeast; no Union professors Will . be present. These fifteen outside professors we'ie selected for the stimulating and different perspectives which they have, concerning the factors that influence personality. Their outlook is often a result of their · particular discjplines. Professors in the fields of Psychology, Theli>logy, Biology, . English, Philosophy, French, and perhaps others will be present. The particular way that each group- will approach the general topic of persQnality will pr,obably. be .determined by the perspective of the discussion group leader, but •the students involved are encouraged to help push the discussions in the directions they thi_nk are also important. Assisting these professors will be a designated Uniqn student in each discussion group {see list of \facilitators\ below).· These students will help the professor, participate in the group, and also take responsibility for supplying the food and drink that all grou,ps will offer. Hopefully,. a_result of the informality of the discussions wiJI he that the students involved will gladly and easily participate in the conversation. None of the pressures existing in a classroom · will .be present. On Friday the 14th, the Continued on Page 4 Cahill to Lead Garnet Union College has selected former West Point coach Tom Cahill, 55. to be head coach of fo.otball, beginning with the 1975 season. The 1966 College Football Coach of the Year Cahill will succeed Gerry Everling, who was notified last month that his contract as Union coach would not be renewed. Cahill, who coached the Army tealll from 1966 .to 1973, had an overall record of 40-39~2 at West Poi11t. ln his best vears the Cadets finished 8-2, in 1966 and again in 1967. He was .selected as the nation's outstanding college coach in ··1966. A nat~ve of Syracuse, Cahill was .. graduated from Niagara in 1'942.. Following· wartime service as an infantry captain in the South Pacific, he was head coach of football, basketball, and ·. haseball in Manlil).s, N.Y., · a sll'bt:ub of Syracuse, for I 0 years. In I 957 he moved to River Dell Regional High School in Oradell, N.J .• then joined the West Point staff in 1959 as coach of plebe teams_in football and baseball. He stepped up to the head football coaching job in 1966. He coached in the Coaches' All · ~Lar Game in Atlanta in 1967, in tll.e East-West Shrine game in 1968 and 1969, and in the All- A nierica Game in Tampa, Fla., in 1968. During 1972-73 he served as a member of the Football . C <~aches Rules Committee. Continued on Page I) NED HARKNESS TOM CAHILL New Art Gallery Opens at Union Varied Program Slated The artsat Union College have not been that strong. Exhibitions of artwork ha:ve never had the p r o p e r f o r u m f o r the consumption by the campus community. Two Union College arts professors were less than happy with this situation. So, With the help of a few friends and a limited amount of money, they have set out to improve the quality of cultural life on the Union campus and· in the surrounding area. On Monday, Jan. 13, their efforts culminated in the opening of the Union Gallery, a place w heJ.'e amateur and professional artists Will lecture and exhibit their works. The gallery is open five days a week, Wednesday thtl>ugh Sunday from 2 to 5 p. rn. The gallery- the braincll.fld of Assistant 'Prof. Nina Rosenblum and Assistant Prof. Robert Moorhead- is located in a se.ction · of Union's Schaffet Library. formerly the reading room, and wi'll be free and open to t 11e public. \We want to show the serious contribution art can make to the cultural life of the community,\ says Prof. Rosenblum, \'We want to emphasize art history and make people realize the effect artists have had.\ To achieve these goals, Moorhead artd Ms. Ros~nblum have planned live professional shows and two student shows for the gallery's first season, the college's winter and spring terms. Speakers have been invited to the gallery to lecture on the works being exhibited. The first exhibition entitled \Photographs by Lewis Hine\ opened Monday evening, January 13. The speaker, Alart Trachtenberg; a professor of American Studies and English at Yale University, spoke to-a large and interested audience on the life 'and work of Hine. His lecture and slide presentation concentrated on explaining several of Hine's works as well as the works of other photographers who were contemporaries of Hine in order Continued on Page 5 Harkness to Begin Hockey ProgrCim Union College has appointed Ned Harkness, 53, to manage the college's new Achilles Ice Rink and to begin the development of a hockey team at Union. Harkness' appointment was announced by Union President Thomas Bonner. Harkness, the 1968 Coac.h of the Year in U.S. college hockey, has served' as head hockey coach at Corne'll University, Ithaca, N.Y .•• and at Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute, Troy .. N.Y. In 1970, H arkne'Ss was appointed head coach of the National Hockey League Detroit Red Wings. ·•tn hiring Ned Harkness. Union College is acqumng an outstanding rink manager, an uneXcelled promoter of ice activities and one of the best known collegiate hockey coaches in the nation,\ said President Bonner .. \'In making this appointment on the heels of the naming ot Tom Cahill as head football coach we wish to signal that we intend to be competitive and to establish a winning attitllde at Union,\ said the Union president. Bonner exphasized. however, that no change has taken place in Union's general policy towards athletics. Both Bonner. and Mr. Hark ness, emphasized Mr. Harkness' role as manager of the Achilles Ice Facility. This job, that of putting the facility on a profit-making basis while Continued on Page 11 New Aid Deadline Joseph Maras, Director of Stude.nt Aid, wishes to remind . students of the following points relevant to financial aid awards: A number of developments that have occurred recently req11ire a change in the titne schedule for applying for financial aid for the academic year 1975-76. All applications for financial aid for the 1975-76 academic year m11st be filed with .,the College Scholarship Service by March t, 1975. All students, including those who are presently on financial aid, must file the financial aid application in order to he considered for renewal of aid. I he forms will be · available at the office of Student Aid in Mid- January. Further announcements on this will be ·made through the \arious campus media. Neglecting to file the application by March I, 1975 could jeopardize your being considered for renewal of aid by the Committee on Student Aid.

·1 •, .. ., . Page2 CONCORDIJ!!ISIS, Wednesday, January 15, 1975 ~ . ......,_..:\ ·Editors-in-chief .....................•....... Chris O'Connor Rob Mondschein Culture Edit<>r ..................................... Peter f obol ~·l • . Features Editor ................................... John Scheer . . • .Sports Editors ........................... : .. K.ev:in Crawford Rill Underhill Photo Editors ................................. Arthur Miller Ellen Radack Danny McMa!lamon Graphic Arts Editor ................. : ........ Bob Johnson Managing Editor .......................... Deug Carpenter Contributing Editors ............................. Judy Dein Historical Editor ....................................... Bill Talis Business Manager ............................. ) ennifer Port National Advertising ........................... Steve Kelley Subscriptions Editor .............................. Lisa Tietz JoAnn Laufer Staff: Janet Chapman, Lee Schwartz, Rick Ford, Bill Plaus, Sam Hughes, Susan Scheinhaus CONCORDIENSIS is published every Wednesday by the tudent body of U11ion College; Old Gym l:!.all, Schenectady; N.Y. ublications Office: The Jewish World PubUcations,. 771 State St., cheneetady, N.Y. 12307 (346-2356). Entered in the Schenectady· ost Office as Second Class Matter. Subscrip.tinn Rate 35 cents per opy. $8.00 a year delivered anywhere in the . United States. all ab.out ten:ure Tenure decisions are made after an extensive investigation of a p_rofessor's contributions in and out of the classroom takes place. Yet despite the supposed thorongliness of. tl).e ad hoc committees on tenure, Union is continuing to lose some of its best faculty due to denial of tenure. One means of correcting this serious mistake already exists in the department chairmen's lists of things to do, yet it continues to be ignored. The means to which· we are referring is the r~view of a professor's work after being at Union for three years. In view of comments· received, the department chairman is supposed to offer constructive criticism to the new faculty member. · Many claim that no-one can be taught to teach, and therefore the effect of any suggestions offered to a new professor will always be rather limited. Although this may be true in certain cases, one must also consider the faculty member who, upon receiving reasons given for his denial of tenure, exclaimed that he was really surprised, and had been totally unaware of some of the student's unfavorable criticisms of his teaching. This faculty member was also considered outstandingly bright and perceptive by some of his other students. Surely a few suggestions along the way could have helped him improve his lectures, assuming he considered the suggestions to be improvements, of course. At present, the method and completeness of the review of individual professors is left to the discretion of the department chairmen. What we are proposing is that a uniform system of evaluation be created, whereby after several years of teaching a survey is sent out to some of the professor's students. Questions similar to those asked by the ad hoc committees would be asked to help determine the faculty member's strong and weak points. The department chairman would be required to call the professor in for a private conference where the comments received would be discussed. We also strongly advocate that professors be required to hand out a questionnaire at the end of each term, asking any questions which they would find most helpful in improving and evaluating the .course. While the reviews we are calling for would obviously not be~ as complete as that done by the tenure committees, we do feel that they would help eliminate dismissals on to~ally unexpected grounds. Also, constructive criticism should lead to some more exciting and valuable classes which should be common in a small school which boasts of its close student~ faculty relations. It should also be common in a school which claims that education is of utmost importance. Not only do professors deserve to be aware of how their teaching is being viewed by students, and how .effective they are in the classroom, but students should also be able t-o expect teachers to be concerned with their classroom performance, and do their best to make classes more · informative and interesting. welcome, boys Concordiensis wishes to welcome both Tom Cahill and Ned Harkness to the Union Community. Both men come here as leaders in their chosen fields; and their contributions to Union should be great. Concordiensis. wishes them all the best as they begin their Union careers. 1\ you said-it stineba.ck-ba·d dec.ision Editors, Concordiensis: I was very much distressed ~o learn that Oavid C. Stineback did not receive tenure. It would not be an exaggeration to say that Professor Stineback has greatly broadened and enriched my career at Union College. Currently, I am an English major. When 1 first came in contact with Professor Stineback, I was a freshman; and I envisioned rnyself as a political scientist. The first English course l took at Union was CED. lO, \Aspects of American Society,\ taught by Professor Stineback. This course was a meaningful and • personal experience. By this I mean 1 was made to understand, appreciate, and identify with the books we read as I had never· done before. I think the sign of a strong course and a superior professor is when the student truly looks forward to every class meeting, and this was my good fortune. The fall term of my sophomore year, I was in 'Professor Stineback's English 13 course. One does not have to be enrolled in a course to appreciate American literature. However, Professor Stineback's interpretation of the works provided me with guidance and insight that I will literally treasure for the rest of my life. There is a tremendous difference between offering an interpretati<'>n and imposing one's views. At no time did Professor Stineback ever attempt to impose his views as necessarily being the only correct or possible interpretation. At no time were his views delivered in an authoritarian or -condescending manner. To the contrary, Professor Stineback continually stressed the point that his interpretat~on was merely an offering and nothing more. It is in large part because of Professor Stineback that after the fall term of my sophomore year I switched my major from Political Science to .English. I feel very lucky to have been one of his students. I had not realized prior to my contact with him thai the study of litt.rature could be s.uch a rewarding experience. This was not because I Iiad not been exposed to it; rather, I had not been exposed to a teacher with the unique and gifted ability to enable the student to truly feel the meaning of the words, instead of me~ely reading over them. Again, in the spring of my sophomore year, I had Professor Stineback for English 124. In this course, as in the past, I found the class to be interesting and enjoyable. An outstandingquality of any course taught by Professor Stineback is his expertise in helping the student ~;:xpress himself through wr!ting. He is careful to make himself available to his students and is always more than willing to be of assistance~ 1 have great appreciation for the counseling he has given me over the years. In conclusion, 1 feel D.11vid C. Stine back· deserves tenure, and t:hat Union College will greatly suffer by his absence. If he received anything less than a strong rating, then I cannot see how it was an accurate, fair, or true judgment. In my mind, he is not merely a strong, but superior professor; lt is for these reasons that I sincerely hope the school will reconsider its decision and award David C. · Stinehack the tenure that he honestly deserves. \ Very truly yours, Dana A. Michaelis Editors, Concordiensis: I was extremely disappointed to Ie;:~.rn that Professor David Stineback was not granted tenure. I feel that h.e is one of the most valuable members of the English Department at Union College. lt, will be a great loss for both the college and the department if this decision forces Professor Stineback to leave. I transferred to Union College in the fall of 1972 as a sophomore .. Winter term of that year, I took English 131, Narrative Writing, with Professor Stineback. Under his expert guidance, I began to develop my skills as a fiction writer. I am extremely, ind!;!bted .to Professor Stineback for the encouragement and criticism he gave me in that class. My major work for the course · later won the Yudis Awan;t Filii term ()f my junior year was in Rennes, France with other Union students. I was dissatisfied with my previous advisor, so I wrote to Professor Sti:neback, requesting that he . become my advisor. He ve.ry readily agreed, and corresponded with me frequently regarding various problems I was having with my schedule. Since that time, he has never ceased to give close attention to my scheduling problems, as well as exhibiting a concern for my writing activities. Last spring term, I ·took English 132, Advanced Creative Writing, with Professor Elizabeth Mansfield. She offered many new insights to my writing. However, because 1 valued Professor Stineback's criticism, I petitioned the English Department so that I might take English 132 aga:in with congratulations Concordiensis wishes to congratulate both the History Department and the Union chapter of Phi Beta Kappa on their efforts to bring a much needed breath of intellectual fresh air to the campus. Both the history Symposium, to be held on January 21;. and the Phi Beta Kappa intellectual marathon, to be held February 13th and 14th; offer students · aa all-too-rare opportunity to engage in intellectual discourse with leading sch'blars from other colleges and universities. Coneordiensis urges all students to avail. themselves of these opportunities. in the hope that a high 'rate of student -participation will encourage more such efforts. him this spring. Thankfully; tnY request was granted .. I very much look forward to taking that course with him 111Y last term at Union Coilege. I feel extremely fortunate to have been able to take courses with this fine professor. I would like to think that students in the vears to come will alsG be as fortunate in this respect. The I'Oss of Professor Stineback will mean the loss 'of one of the most enthusiastic and involved members of the English Department faculty. I sincerely hope this does not occut. As' one of the Student Representatives to the English Department, I am aware of the reacti<?n many students have had to the tenure committee's decision. To say the least, quite a: few are upset. I w 0 uld like to he 1;1ble to inform them that this decision has been reconsidered, and reversed. I hope this may occur in the near future. Sincerely, Lynn Ann Wintriss '75 term· abroad I he Fall Term in Florence, with courses in Renaissance and C ontem~porary Italy, as well as the Italian language, requires completion of Italian I 0 which will be offered this spring. Professor Klemm is .[n charge of !trrangements and applications for the program. - I erm A broad programs count toward completion of the Comprehensive Education requirements. The fee for Term\ Abroad programs during· the 1975-76 academic year will be Sl500 plus air fare. Other term A~toad offerings for 1975-76 inClude Winter Terms in Israel and Seville, Spain, and a Spring Term in Vienna. ·- ..................... ~ ........ - ............ __ ~ ... ~ --·~ .. ,.~ ........... -') ALL JUNIORS AND SENIORS I i ! I The Comprehensive Edu•j :cation Board would appreciate 1 1 if those students still holding l the questionnaires which were I . distributed last term would complete them and send them! . through the campus mail to I !the biology department.j i ((:ampus ·mail boxes arel !located iri West, Fox, 'Davidson and the. Student !Activities Office.) The! I questionnaire is especially! 1 important to find. those l courses which students feel j need review or replacement.! \'our cooperation is much; · appreciated. . ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~· ORIENTATION '75 &::~ ~ Applications are available. S ·~now at the Student Activities S ~ O,ffice for Orientation '75. § ~ALL students wbo are&::! S interested in planning the S &::~program should apply.&::~ ~ l'ositions to be filled ~ue for ~ S two assi§tant co--chairmen, and § &::~ programs concerning st.udent· ~ S faculty, . commuters, social S ~activities, transfers and ~ ~ refi'eshments. • Applications ~ ~ must :be returned to the ~ ~ Student Activities Office by ~ ~ J<'riday, January 14. Any~ ~ questions, contact Harriet ~ ·~Kaplan (370·6481) o.r Bill Talis~ ~ ( 346-9688). ·~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ,

CONCORDfENSJS, Wednesday, January 15, l975 Page3 . . .. op1n1on The Rape of JJ_ichmond ,_,d;.:~Y , Ann £;as~un~ '77 I have many times seen pictures of ransacked homes and heard news clips .about those who've been unfortunate enough to experience this type of behavior ·.y· et never could 1 have imagined the horror and shock of it aiL .. unitl two days before Chr-istmas, 1974. It is truly an ugly, ugiy experience to wake up to find a piece of mail saying, ••r regret to inform you that on Monday, December l6,. Richmond House was vandalized. Your room was one of the several.involved.\ Not only did the incident occi:lr but the forces which were assumed to have been preventing just such an i nc:ident appear · to have been totally ineffective. I have since received three different :stories from \reliable\ sources on how and when it occurred and I can see very lit:tle evidence that anything ·is being done in an 1 effort to find the culprits. A week I , after the incident had occurred, yes .J live fifteen minutes from Union and it took me a week to find out, nothing had b~en learned. It is extremely conceivable that one could have again robbed Richmond just as easily as it was done the first time~ - M'y room was searched from top to bottom: I find it hard to believe that security ·could have allowed these burglars as much ttrileilsthey did. I would say that they sperit a good hour in my room, not counting the time it took to break in nor the time spent on. a soda break duri.ng which the two bottles pf. Diet Pepsi I had left in' my room were . each half drunk. It certainly took time to get the stolen goods out of the dorm especially C!)nsidering that my room i~ on the fourth floor. Multiply that by seven rooms and you have well over a days work (assurn·ing :there was not a gang of bandits). lt seems strange to me that no one noticed any. unlatched doors or odd vehiCles around the dorm. I was . mistakenly under the 'impression that no one would be in the dorm over vacation ~ that it would be chained closed. I can see no reason why the housekeepers, if they must clean over vacation, carh calT security when they are arriving and leaving and have them secure the doors. Nor can l understand why the housekeepers have .keys which open all the doors to th.e rooms. Personally 1 wouldn't want that temptation before' me. The s.ame is true for maintenance people. ·rake an empty donn. and: a most .honest person with a key to open any room in that dorm and you hav_e <tn unjust temptation. . How the break-in occurred, \t·hether it was an· inside job or not is .n oL: in~ · my lteahri· - i am not a private detective. However, 'i am a student at Union College and feel that 1 have a right to know that my belongings are reasonably safe in my room· in my dorm when .I leave· for vacation. 1 do not intend to blame the problem totally on · security personnel. It is a tough job to protect ~eiOO acre campus with as fev P~~l\ .. ,e as there are on the staff yet I also feel that a little less apathy towards Union and its people would go a long way. Something is wrong ~orn,ewhere in the sys.tem. Whatever the problem, 'it need be corrected and immediately .I pay oyer $4500.00 a vear. to come here and would i10pe that security could provide decent protection for me and what is mine. If, as I now learn, Union has a reputationfor having its donps robbed each year then I think I have a right to know it - before it's too late. It's indeed a shame that one should feel he has to move out for every vacation, hut better the chaos and inconvenience of that than the shock and horror and even bitterness that tomes with an incident such as I and a few others had happen to us. - CO'mmlssion on Women- Beverly Parker Tours Union Special to Concordiensis Hever,Jy Parker,. the head of the University of. New Hampshire's Presidential Commission on Women, came to Union for three days last week. The purpose of the visit was to tour the campus, speaking with women faculty, students, administration, and staff m an effort to raise the consciousness of women at Union, and in order that they will understand the experience of the Women~s Commission at UNH. Ms. Parker, who at the formative stages of the commission held a job as a clerk in the bookstore and now works in the personnel office, stated that the UNH program took one ·long, ·hard year to organize. The women:s strength came \from the united action of aU women, clerks, faculty, secretaries. students, and administrators, ali Several years ago, a group ot women who were enrolled and working at UNH felt that they were not receiving the same advantages as their male counterparts - in the areas of athletics, academic and career counselLing, security; medicine and birth control, curriculum, and a forum for grievances. ·stic-king . together around an issue.\ A web of communication was ~et up that focused attention nn women's problems and possible solutions .to those, problems. The fact that they proved they were a responsible group and had th7 !itl~, of a \presidential commiSSIOn. gave them legitimacy and thus extra strength. - One must learn and struggle at the beginning, according to Ms. Parker. \Learn procedures, learn how to become political, and learn how to become effective,\ she advised. Ms. Parker stated news analys.is Women's Caucus meeting in which Bev Parker (right) speaks to students on Women's Commission. Susannah Miller is on left. optimistically, in response to a question dealing with apathy at Union, that UNH's experience was that only a core of approximately twelve people combined, from all segments of campus. was necessary; and that the country gjrls from the mountains of New Hampshire were probably a lot. less prone t0 j.oin a women's organization than the sophisticated girls at Union. The President's Commission on Women at UNH is now firmly established. Jt has become mainly a grievance lobby for the women employees of the campus. And the fact that there is an 'Ombudsman of this sort on campus is important to all women. UniQn's Women Though much fewer than UNH, Union wome.n..··incluc;lil'\g all segments of the campus. have many of the needs as UNH. An ombudsman that will act as a · v·>nce commiSSIOn fo. r gne \\ e~ployees, students,. and faculty . . 1s much. needed here. Many women employees do not feel they are members of the u.nion community; and only recently, due to the prodding of the Women's Caucus, hflVe improvements been made in women's athletics and security at Union. Other specifically women's problems are still present at Union. Union still does not have a woman counsellor, although over 650 women go here. It has few teaching faculty who are women. The women on campus have few examples of successful women academicians to emulate. Further, many women express the .feeling that they are still visitors to Union and lack an equal status with men. J'he Bonner · administration, however, has shown some sensitivity to the needs <1ft women at Union. Suzanna M. Miller, officially an Assistant Dean of Students, states that she has also evolved into President Bonner's special assistant on women. Bonner \is just waiting for a responsible women's group to take care of women's problems on campus.\ Ms. Miller said . Are There Cracks In The Ice? Ice Use The impetus. of the Parker visit is showing its jnitial results. This Friday from '1.2:00-1:30 pm in SSOI6, an open meeting, inviting all women of Union (including students, faculty, administration, and staff) will take place to discuss and reach some sort of consensus on the desirability of women's commission here at Union. by CHRIS O'CONNOR While the inauguration of Union's program to fully develop the Achilles Ice Facility presents a great opportunity to the college, several questions are also raised by the decision. Financial Aid The first of these questions is how the inauguration of a recruiting program for hockey, combined with an increased program for football, will affect the financial aid budget. Dr. Bonner has announced the college's intention to ''be competitive and to establish a winning attitude at Union.\ Although the college awards linancial aid on the basis solely of need, it seems probabl:e that students with an athletic background might be preferred over students with no such capacity to participate in varsity athletics at Union; providing both students were qualified for financial aid both academically and on the basis of need. What strain these increased athletic A further question concerns the efforts might place on the availability of the ice for students' financial aid budget, if any, is not use. A key factor in this is the clear. This question is of emphasis. that the school particular concern due to the Administration has placed on th·e· projected $400,000 decrease iii the facility paying for itself and its financial aid need requirements asseciated programs. To resulting from the College accomplish this, Mr. Harkness ~c~.?l~':'shi_p_S,er~ic~s-~lteration of· announced his intention of its need criteria. Unfortunately, ·operating the facility on a 15-20 President Bonner had a hour a day basis. However, previously arranged out-of-town Thomas Kershner, Director of the commitment ao,d was unavailable Athletic Committee, said that no for comment. However, one firm estimates of costs and ,.Administrator did express doubts revenues are available at this as to the financing of these new moment. He mentioned that athletic programs. schools such as Hamilton, Wesleyan, and Bowdoin have earned revenues near $50,000 from similar i.ce facilities. However, he would not &tate what the costs of running these faCilities was. It is true that the . program at RPI is self- supporting; however, the RPI hockey team is a far better fan attraction than anything Union will put on the ice for the next several years. Mr. Harkness. who certainly could clear up these questions, will not be on campus again until Monday. Kershn~r made the final point that even if the rink did lose $10,000 or more, it would be a very good value indeed. A Week Away Varsity hockey team at work on newfacility. Further questions exist over the. lack of participation of the campus in 1he decision; and, more importantly, why, after repeated Administration statements this past fall that no hockey team was being planned for the immediate future, a full varsity program emerges. In fact, the initial contact with Mr. Harkness was made by then-President Martin, last spring. As Mr. Harkness said in his remarks Monday, he intends not to Jose his ''reputation\ as a hockey coach while at Union. This apparent conflict between the. statements made t!lis'\fall downplayiiig varsity hockey, and the hiring of the best collegiate hockey coach in America deserves comment from the Administration. One fin~l point must be cleared up. The assumption that hiring a person of Mr. Harkness' capability is too ex.pensive for the college is a wrong one. Dr. .Bonner specifically stated that Mr. Harkness' salary was in line with those given to other athletic coaches.

Special to CONCORDIENSIS I he housing situation on Union College is \tight\ according to Dean of Housing Debbie Kilgus, for the college is using all its space to the maximum efficiency producing the maximum revenue. For three coeds, the situation was not good; returning from abroad they probably would have rather seen · the \No Vacancy\ sign than :be surprised by finding out they had no room. Many students who are having roommate troubles are unable to move to different quarters. Kilgus states, \What we are asking the students is to be a little more flexible.\ I YOUR URGENT I ATTENTION The Cabaret is in search of a 1 few GOOD people to assist in ruiming the Cabaret kitchen. ·People are needed According to Dean Kilgus, there were three reasons why the mistakes were made. First, th~> number of students w.ho left the school due to attritiOn (graduating, flunking \out quitting, etc.) was lesS- than was anticipated. Secondly, the number of students who went on • the term abroad in Israel this winter was only half what it was last year. Thirdly, the number of students who remained abroad from the fall term was less than previous years. Thus, due to these three factors. .combined, instead of having a relatively open number of rooms during the winter term, some coeds did not.have rooms. immediately, and on a consistent basis througbout the • term for ordering .food,· Lines such as one have ·b~come commonpkwe at House and . . · !.he Pub could offer some relie.Rbut the Trustees were undecided. CONCORD!ENSJS will deal The three coeds were offered space in the infirmary until the situation was coHectec;l, but the three girls refused. Kilgus, in order to correct the situation \moved\ two male students together who were occupying doubles alone into one room. This freed a room for 1wo of the three girls in West. The third girl, refusing to take the infirmary and having no place to stay was housed for two days at the Koala Inn by the College. Finally, a fo-u r-man suite in Fox volunteered their suite and said they'd be .glad to take on a fifth person. The third girl therefore was taken care of and lives in a five man suite .. ---niere· ·were iifsopioblems in housing that arose with \floaters.\ Several students said that Kilgus verbally told them they were not floaters, but then reneged on her verbal agreement and told them they had to go to other rooms and . into another dorm. The number of students who have said this is not large, though it has spread ill will among some students toward the housing office. Ms. Kilgus realizes that many organizing, etc. lf interested· · please contact Don Amira at 377-7.<&97 or Barry Smith, Drama 'Dept., or Michael. Sherer right ;tway. with the problems_ ofgetting. · good food without a hassle·. if! .lull detaiinext week. History Dept to Hold Sylnposium Union College's History Department will sponsor a symposium on the topic, \Roots of Conflict,\ on Tuesday evening, January 21. The symposium will begin at 6:30 PM in the Social Sciences Faculty Lounge, where the various speakers and ~rticipants will gather for greetings and sherry; Th.e group will then break into four sub-groups to discuss four aspects of the Roots of Conflict. technological society, and moral, esthetic, and ecolQgical values. John Flynn will speak on National lnter•est and Internatienal Order. The holder of a PhD from Duke University,' Flynn is currenHy a Policy · Analyst for the New Yc;>rk State Senate Task Force on Critical Problems. The Roots of Conflict Following these seminar groups, the symposium participants will reassemble at Four Topics Hale House for discussion and Ben Barker-Benfield will speak light supper. At this time, on Race, Sex, and Ethnicity. Marilyn Blatt Young, a Barker-Benfield is Assistant · distinguisbed · historian on the Professor of American Studies at faculty at the University of SUNY at Albany. He is the Michigan, will address those author ·of · numerous articles, assembled on the o-verall theme, in'cluding one on the \Spermatic Roots of Conflict. Prof. Young, Economy.\ who · holds her PhD from Economist and ciVil rights Harvard, is the author of many lawyer Martin Gideonse will lead articles and boo!cs, including The disc~ssi~ns on ·Law and Rhetorit of.- lmperialis.m; Dissidence. The Boston lawyer American China Policy, 1895 .. has considerable experience in. 1901. . civil rights related cases, most The symposium is open to all recently with the events at members of the College Wounded Knee, South Dakota .. community; however, Technology and Human Values participation is limited. Those will be the topic of discussion for interested should sign-up for a Cornell ecoLogist Daniel particular S(iscussion group with Goodman. His major professional Mrs. Sweet in the History concern has been with the conflict Department Office (SS2!3,, of interest between the: needs of extension 6220). APPLICATION BlANK Phi Beta Kappa Symposium February 13-14; 1975 \The Nature of the Human Personality\ NAME: (last) (first) (initial) CAMPUS MAILING ADDRESS: MAJOR: CAMPUS RES lDENCE: (dorm and room, etc. ) TELEPHONE NUMBER: (please indicate if private or hall phone) Please Lndi,cate briefly why you would like to be a participant in this sym.posiU!ll:: (Please. answer on a separ11te sheet of paper) I agree that, if selected as a :participant, I will participate fUlly in all aspects of the symposium and \'Till remit $3.50 when requested as a registration fee. (signature) Return to: Student Activities Of.fice, Old Gym fiall, Campus By: Not later than January 20. DO NOT ENCLOSE MONEY NOW Human Finger is Found Massapequa ...:.... A human finger, possiblJ ·a th~mb, ~as fotmr/. by a woman walking her dog here yesterday~ mormng, police reported. , · Police said the finger with about 6 . inches of . teridon attached, was discovttred by tfze dog on ~~e lawn in front of the house at 286 Jerusalem Ave. A cfleck of nearby woods and hospital emergency rooms was made by poli~e, but they could get no .information -about .whose finger 11 was. The finger was taken to the Nassau Col.lnty Medical Examiner's office. Police are continuing their investi~ation, C 0 N C 0 R 0 I E N S 1 S in many students are in a rush before coming back to school and leave various things at home due to oversight, we ask aU arganic students to .stop from their studies for cone moment, just. stop ~nd check your hands: its never ending search to discover \the truth\ has futther investigated the above news item. It ap,pear~ that further examination of the finger reveals a type of ink that appears only in editions of Morrison and Boyd texts entitled \Organic Chemistry.\ That is the organic text used at UColl. Knowif!g that Do . you know where all your fingers are? If the answer is no, please tell us as soon as possible. Thank you. . Student· Activities by Monday, Continued from P•ge 1 January 20. · · Applications and .... further . ct·iscussion gi·oups will resume information can be acquired at until lunchtime when a Banquet the information tables set up in Luncheon will he ser.ved, followed West College at lunch and by the presentations of the two dinnertime or the Library main speakers: Professor John . between 7:30 and 9:30 pm. Eccles and Professor Michael Information can also be attained Scriven. Eccles is a Nobel-Prize by . contacting the individuals winning biologist specifically below: involved with physiological explanations of human behavior Planning Committee and personality. Scriven .is. the . Matthew Brief. 414 West country's leading expert m the Judy Dein, 355 Fox field of the philosophy of Jose ph F in.k lest e in., , psychology. The diametrical~y Department of History opposed nature of thetr · Byron Nichols, Department of disciplines should provide a Political Science fitting climax to the symposium. Lee Rimsky, I 02 South The banquet shauld end by 3:00 Don Sostek, 252 Fox p.m., leaving the afternoon free . i<'acilitators for informal discussion or anything else. Greg Cohen; 3.52 Davidson Brian Dearing, 1129 Highland Although participants will be Park Rd. asked to pay a $3.50 registration David Eilbott, 414 West fee, the value of this e;vent cannot Noreen Ginsburg, 318 Nor.th be measured in dollars and cents. Craig Jeffries, K.A. This is the opportunity for Union Jeff Luck, 252 \Fox ~tudents to get away from fhe David Mendelsohn, 218 West pressures of their teachers, books, Mitch Mindlin, 413 West and classrooms and to share and Jack Pitney, 1175 Oxford PI gain a knowledge of themselves Ruth Rappaport, 152 -Fox and others in a .relaxed and free Peter Rubin, 365 Fox atmoS'phere. Because the Fred Simon 1055 Park Ave. symposium can only accommodate Rich Strassman; 10 College St. 300 individuals, there is an Bill Underhill, D. U . . application alon~ with this _artide Harriet Weiner, McKean th~t must be fdled o~t . tf one Bob Wilson, 207 South w1s~es. to partJctpa}·e. MaFk Young, 117 DavidsQn Applications must he turned mto _ . ·. .. ,· - ;;· ~- ... :· . .. -\---·-·-·~--- . '. j An Astronomical- Boutique Gift Shop 1SG Jay St. ~thenectady ... lm:enses • Oils • Candles ·Rec:ordll• Jew* • Posters Le11ther GOOds • Clothillg·• Hats Large Seledlon of l'l\e5 and Papers Many Other Acee550!'Ies Desitned to Suit The Mind And S11ul ~~~W.~~»;~.'!.($::!.~'::-;>!\-.\X)\::.:~.:_ :t:-:-: 1'\\':1Kl_.,..,,.,;;4;\\, ....,.,.,,...1!:!\\!111: .... ;:1!»!#l#! •

Page4 CONCORDJENSIS, Wednesday, January 15, 1975 Special to CONCORDIENSIS I he housing situation on Union College i~ \tight\ according to Dean of Housing Dehhie Kilgus. for the college i-. u'tng all ib space to the ma.'omum efficiency producing the maximum re1enue. stud~n b are upset. Many students who are having roomm.ate troubles are unable to move to different quarters. Kilgus state~. \What '\e are a~ki ng the students is to he a little more flexible.\ '\Ot:R URGENT ATTENTION For three weds. the situation \\as not gt1od; returning from abroad they probably v.ould have rather seen · the \:'\ o Vacancv'\ sign than he surprised by finding out they had no room. According to Dean Kilgus. there were three reason~ wh; the mistake$ were made. First. th•· number of studenb who left the t l'he Cabaret is in search of a ·few GOOD people to assist in running the Cabaret kitchen. Pco~Ic are needed immediately, and on a cons is tent basis thn:mghout the term for ordering food, organizing, etc. If interested please- contact Don Amira at J77-7497 or Barry Smith, Drama Dept., or Michael Sherer right away. '· '\ '• :.. ' ~ ~~~-­ Li~;s 'such as this on; have become commonplace at Hale House and the Rathskeller. 1 he Pub could o(fer some relie(;bur the Trustees were undecided. CONCORDIENSIS will deal school due to attrition (graduating. flunking ou1, quitting, etc.) was less than was anticipated. Secondly, the number of students who went on · the term abroad in Israel this winter was onlv half what it was last year. Thirdly. the number of students who remained abroad from the fall term was less than previous years. Thus, due to these three factors combined, instead of haviAg a relatively open mtmber of rooms during the winter term. some coeds did not have rooms. The three coeds were offered space in the infirmary until the situation was corrected, but the three girls refused. Kilgus, in order to correct the situation \moved\ two male students together who were occupying doubles alone into one room. This freed a room for two of the three girls in West. The third girl. refusing to take the infirmary and having no place to stay was housed for two davs at the Koala Inn by the Coll~ge. Finally. a four-man suite in Fox volunteered their suite and said they'd be glad to take on a fifth person. The third girl therefore was taken care of and lives in a five man suite. '-!'here were also ··problems in hou~ing that arose with \floaters.\ Several students said that Kilgus verbally told them they were not floaters, but then reneged on her verbal agreement and told them they had to go to other- room--;;-·;-nd into another dorm. The number of students who have said this is not large, though it has spread ill will among some students toward the housing office. Ms. Kilgus realizes that many . with the problems of getting. goodfood without a hassle in full detailnext w-eek. History Dept to Hold Symposium Union College's History technological society, and moral, Department will sponsor a esthetic, and ecological values. symposium on the topic, \Roots John Flynn will speak on of Conflict,\ on Tuesday evening, .Nation a I Interest and January 2 I. International Order. The holder The symposium will begin at of a PhD from Duke University, 6:30 ? M in the Social Sciences Flynn is currently a Policy Faculty Lounge. where the Analyst for the New York State various speakers and p-articipants Senate Task Force on Critical will gather for greetings and Problems. sherry. The group will then break The Roots of Conflict into four sub-groups to discuss four aspects of the Roots of Conflict. Four Topics Ben Barker-Benfield will speak on Race, Sex, and Ethnicity. Barker-Benfield is Assistant Professor of American Studies at SUNY at Albany. He is the author ·of numerous articles, including one on the \Spermatic Economy.\ Ecoaomist and civil rights lawyer Martin Gideonse will lead di~c~ssions- on ·Law and Dissidence. The Boston lawyer has considerable experience in civil rights related cases, most recently with the events at Wounded Knee, South Dakota. Technology and Human Values will be the topic of discussion for Cornell ecologist Daniel Goo<hnan. His major professional concern has been with the conflict of interest between the needs of APPLICATION BLANK Following these sem1nar groups, the symposium participants will reassemble at Hale House for discussion and light supper. At this time, Marilyn Blatt Young, a distinguished historian on the faculty at the University of Michigan, will address those assembled on the overall theme, Roots of Conflict. Prof. Young, who holds her PhD from Harvard, is the author of many articles and books. includin.e; The Rhetoric of Imperialism; American China Policy, 1895- 1901. The symposium is open to all members of the College community; however, partiCipation is limited. Those interested should sign-up for a particular discussion group with Mrs. Sweet in the History Department Office (SS213, extension 6220). Phi Beta Kappa Symposium February 13-14, 1975 \The Nature of the Human Personality\ NAME: (last) (first) (initial) CAMPUS MAILING ADDRESS: MAJOR: CAMPUS RESIDENCE: (dorm and room, etc.) TELEPHONE NUMBER: (please indicate if private or hall phone) Please indicate briefly why you would like to be a participant in this sympos i urn: (Please answer ()n a separate sheet of paper) I agree that, if selected as a participant, I will participate fully in all aspects of the symposium and will remit $3.50 when requested as a registration fee. Return to: By: (signature) Student Activities Office, Old Gym Hall, Campus Not later than January 20. DO NOT ENCLOSE MONEY NOW Human Finger is Found Massapequa ...:... A human finger, possibly a thl!mb, was found by a woman walking her dog here yesterday~ morning, police reported. Police said the finger with about 6 inches of tendon attached, was discovered by the dog on the lawn in front of the house at 286 Jerusalem Ave. A cfzeck of nearby woods and hospital emergency rooms was made hy police. hut they could get no information -about whose finger it was. The finger was taken to the Nassau County Medical Examiner's office. Police are continuinR their investi,;atinn. C 0 N C 0 R D I E N S I S in its never ending search to discover \the truth\ has further investigated the above news item. It appears that further examination of the finger reveals a type of ink that appears only in editions of Morrison and Boyd texts entitled \Organic Chemistry.\ That is the organic text used at UColl. Knowing that ( ontinued from Page 1 discussion g1 oups wi 11 resume until lunchtime when a Banquet Luncheon will be served, followed by the presentations of the two main speakers: Professor John Eccles and Professor Michael Scriven. Eccles is a N obei-Prize winning biologist specifically involved with physiological explanations of human behavior and personality. Scriven is the countrv's leading expert in the field ·of the philosophy of , psychology. The diametrical~y opposed nature of thelf disciplines should provide a fitting climax to the s:ym posi urn. The banquet should end hy 3:00 p.m., leaving the afternoon free for informal discussion or anything else. Although participants will be asked to pay a $3.50 registration fee, the value of this e:vent cannot be measured in dollars and cents. This is the opportunity for Union :;tudents to get away from the pressures of their teachers, books, and classrooms and to share and gain a knowledge of themselves and others in a relaxed and free atmosphere. Because the symposium can only accommodate .~00 individuals. there is an application along with this article that mu»t be filled out if one wishes to participate. Applications must be turned into many students are in a rush before coming back to school and leave various things at home due to oversight. we ask all organic students to stop from their studies for one moment, just stop and check your hands: Do you know where all your fingers are? If the answer is no, please tell us as soon as possible. Thank you. Student Activities by .Monday, January 20. Applications and . further information can be acquired at the information tables set up in West College at lunch and dinnertime or the Library between 7:30 and 9:30 pm. Information can also be attained by contacting the individuals below: Planning Committee Matthew Brief, 414 West Judy Dein, 355 Fox Joseph Finklestein. Department of History · Byron Nichols, Department of Political Science Lee Rimsky, 102 South Don Sostek, 252 Fox Facilitators Greg Cohen, 352 Davidson Brian Dearing, I I 29 Highland Park Rd. David Eilbott, 414 West Noreen Ginsburg, 318 North Craig Jeffries. K.A. Jeff Luck, 252 -Fox David Mendelsohn. 218 West Mitch Mindlin, 413 West Jack Pitney, I I 75 Oxford PI Ruth Rappaport, 152 Fox Peter Rubin, 365 Fox I-red Simon 1055 Park Ave. Rich Strassman. 10 College St. Hill Underhill, D.U. Harriet Weiner, McKean Bob Wilson. 207 South Mark Young, I 17 Davidson An Astronomical Boutique Gift Shop 156 Jay St. ~chenectady Incenses \ Oils o Candles Records o Jew.!!n_ • Posters .. Leather Goods • Clothillg • Hats Large Selection or Pipes and Papers Many Other Accessories Designed to Suit The Mind And Soul

aU ay, at in of h St. • --~~~--~--~---------------~~-----C_O~N_. ~c_o_R_D~l~E_N_S_~~~--~~e.d_n~e-sd~a~y~,_Ja_n_u_ar~y_1_5_,_19~7-5 __________________ _. ______ -- __ P._a_g~~-5- Art Gallery in Schaffer. Music Rooin The tast lime I Saw Paris ... 'continued from Page I to .give the audic:mce a greater, he photographed. In his understanding of what Hine set photographs, as in all great art, out to accortipHsh in his work. history has become aliwe and The gallery's first exhibition is poignant. a partictilar:!y appropriate one, The second exhih itio-n, says Ms. Rosenblum, since Hine scheduled for Jan. 21 to Feb. 7, was an artist concerned with win feat1.1re paintings, drawings, effecting soeial change through !1hd prints by Ashley Bryan, a his work. HTn-:·s . pictutes professor of art at Dartmouth: documented social problems at Bryan, who il'lustrates chiidren's the turn of the century. stories on Black ·history, will For a period of twenty-five discuss his work on the s'how's years Hine made thoMsands of final night. photographs in the streets,< For the Feb. 17 to 28 tenement homes, mills and mines exhibition, Ms. Rosenblum has of this country. He sought to gathered together seven young express the strength and character professional artists, mostly from of working men and women Who, New York City. Photography, to him, were still primary in what p~inting. drawjng ~nd ~culpture was then called .. the machine will be represented' 1n this s·how. age.\ His photographs reveal his Photographs by Jerome respect for the courage and skill Liebling will be on display from of the workers behind the March 10 to 21. Liebling is a machines and his anger when professional photographer and these people and their families the chairman of the film and were overburdened, deprived and photography department at ·exploited. He wanted his Hampshire College. photographs to influence social Union College's First Annual change so . that the hope of the Sculpture Show will taRe place newly arrived young immigrant at March 31 to April II. For this Ellis Island would not have to show,. Prof. Moorhead will select become the wistful despair of the works. by students in his sculpture eleven year Carolina miH worker. class. It is a measure of Hine's Another student s~ow, the First greatness that the familiar Annual Painting and pictures will be welcomed as old Photography Exhibition, follows friends, whom once known, from April 30 to May 14. The cannot be forgotten, while the· faculty members of the arts unknown ones will introduce us department will conclude the go a part of our history that gallery's first season with an ordinarily seems remote and exhibition of their works, May 20 different from the way we live to June 12. today. Hine's work reveals more \We tried to make the shows than historical fact and his this season varied,\ says Ms. artistry has created more than Rosen-blum, \since we want to sociological data. He brought out create more interest in the arts, the grace, the will, the intensity we want to attract everyone, and the hopelessness in the people artists and non-artist alike.\ by \U:cy & VIV\ From the moment we set foot nn the Friday, 6:00 p.-m .• Rennes to Paris train. we should have known that it was going to be a strange weekend. After passing by ~ars of compartments filled with inebriated French sailors on leave J.or the weekend, we finally found a compartment with two empty places and settled down for the three hour and fortyMfive minute ·train ride. Our six college-aged compartn1ent mates seemed nice enough. that is. until we too·k out t'he sandwiches we had brought along as supper. Apparently, they had never seen lettuce and tomato placed on a sandwich before. lhey went absolutely hysterical, insisting that only Americans would think of putting salad on a ~andwic h! They proceeded to laugh at us for the duration of the ride. If we had had the nerve, we would have told them that we lound the French dietary habits a hit peculiar as \\\ell rirani. ttipe (stomach-linings), pigs eats, and other such \delicacies\ were just not our cup of tea. Deciding to. · leave well enough alone, we pretended to be sound asleep until ·the train pulled into Gare Mont parnasse. Paris. Rennes weather clearly followed us; it was pouring rain. windy and a brisk J9 degrees f. In making preparations the week before, we thought we had left no stone unt1.1rned. We catefully made hotel reservations. knowing that it just wouldn't be too smart to look for a room at Hillel Spons.ors Military Strategist its cause for 21 years, attammg Union College Hillel is the rank of Lieutenant Colonel. sponsoring a talk by Mr. Baruch Gorodish, from the Israel Ali yah As a soldier, he fought in the 1956 Center, in New York. on learning, Sinai Campaign and the 1967 living and working in Israel. The War, as Major of the 'Golani' talk will be at 7:00 P.M. in SS Brigade. During the Yom Kippur War, Gorodish was involved with ll~r. Gorodish is the Capital ·. the Operations Center of the D . t · • - 1 ·Jt . t\ Southern Command in ·SinaL He Is nets commum y consu an from the New York office of the.. was. also. a delegate to the H disengagement talks at Tent Israel Aliyah·Center. e came to Kilometer 101 ot the southern Israel at the age of one year; from Poland, in 1933. He joined· the command in. December-January Israeli Armv in J-953 and served 1973-74. n • ) • Mr. Gorodish is a most knowledgeable military strategist and aware of all aspects of the current Middle East military balance. A short film on the military intervention of the Israeli Army during the Yom Kippur War will also be shown. Mr. Gorodish will he. available for individual consultation both before!nd after the talk. Everyone is imited to attend. JOEL BUCKBER ·leads discussion at meeting group or hosting visitors to campus. The meeting dealt with a lack of response amon~ the Gatesmen; it arose out of concern for the increasing me of non-Gatesmen as tour f(uides. Non- . Gatesmen now conduct 30-40%of all tour.\'. · ' . . SENIORS. . l Time to order graduation I announcements-- plaee your order with Mrs. Marra in the Student Activities Office. tevrs II :00 p.m. on a Friday night. We took fhe subway to the Latin Ouarter and had na trouble I inding the hotel. We WCllked inside, only to be greeted by two old women who informed us that they were sorry. but -they just rented ·OUr room out. We could try another hotel down the street. Having no other choice, we hesitantly walked into one hotd lobby filled with a bunch of ~eedy-looking characters watching , tdev,ision. As we approached the desk. the proprietor., who strongly resembled the ugly troll in \The I hree Billy Goats Gruff' children's story, tore h.imself away lrom the dubbed American v.estern just long enough to say that yes, we were in luck, he had one I'oom left and that wo'uld be 40 francs please. Relieved to have Jound something, we climbed the steps to the appropriate fleor and then. battled with the lock and key lor 10 minutes. (Someday, hopefully, doorknobs will become !\tandard equipment in French: hotels.) Well, the toom looked de<:ent enough, but there was a \ery strong draft coming from the open window. Upon careful .examination, we discovered that the .wood was warped and the \\ i ndow just did not close. C'est Ia ,·ie! \ext step on the agehda was to check out the hall W.C. (toilet.) \hich was located, conveniently cnough, next to our room. Not hcing able to locate the light, one or called to the other to come in the hall and stand guard. As we gr<lpingl:y searched for the ''hidden'\ switch. the door to our I\O(lm slammed shut (a little help lrom the open window) with the key. of course, being securely locked inside. There was onlv one thing to do -·go back do~n to the lobby and get the master key. I his went o\ er really big with the ·•clientele\ who then decided that \\ e were more fun to watch than Jolin Wayne, who, incidentally. ,poke perfect French! That episode over, we finally went to ,leep. (By the way, we later discovered that the W.C. light \\ ent on when the W .C. door was lirm.ly closed and locked.) I he next morning we decided that we really didn't want !(.) 'pend the rest of the weekend in that hotel and thus, went i11 .,earch of another room for our remaining two nights. We finally lound one. but we could only stay lor one -night. Tbe next day. the 1· .!\:. people from U.N.E.S.C.O. \\ere arriving for a convention. a11d all the available rooms had hecn booked throughout the city o1 Paris: Well, at least we had a worn for the night. This one, too. \\as conveniently situated next to the W.C. Administrative details ta.ken ~.:are of, we set out to explore Paris, and of course, do ourshart;> TYPING Reasonable Rates Fast·Service 393-2233 of ·the \touristy\ tlliug:. U1at tourists always do. After visiting the Cathedral of Notre- Dame, we decided to look for a restaurant I or dinner. Not just any restaurant would d(J though, it had to be one that was described in one of the many tremendous student guide books to Europe. We carefully consulted the ., ubway map, descended 3 flights of steps<, went back up again to make sure we were going the right \\ay, descended the steps (lgain, g.ot on the train and got off at the next stop:.ludging from the map, \\C were certain that that subway \\as the only means to get through the Seine River and to the student section. Nobody told us about the bridge. Yes, that's right. We climbed 3 flights of steps. walked out onto the street, turned ·the corner. and there it \\as.Notre Dame Cathedral in all its glory. One. of us turned to the {1ther and said \You mean there's another one'?\ Yes. now go ahead and say it -- we took the subway arnund the corner! I he next morning. we were out trying to find a room for our last night in Paris. Luckily. we had met an American student who had a friend of a friend wno was a hotel proprietor and would rent us a room for the night. This t·oom, too. was next to the W .C. I his had to be sorne sort of a record. Three nights (in three different hotels) next to the hathroom! Now, rernemher all of the stories you've heard about the paper thin quality of French \lalls. We can attest to the fact that they're all true. Yes, we did hear 4 uite a symphony of sounds duri.ng those three nights. < >ur ll!st day in Paris was pretty uneventful. We checked out the l\lc Donald's on the Champs- 1-l,~:secs. almost got ran over while trying to cross the eight street intersection at the Arc de · Triomphe, and were approached hy innumerable Algerians whose c:ntire English vocabulary c:onsisted of 2 phrases- \Do you \lant to come to my room and ... pend the night with meT' immediately followed hy .. y ot Sonofahitch American girl (s).\ Comfortablv seated on tht train for the .return journey, Wt ··rm~dly\ waved · good-bye t< Paris, and prepared our repertoin ·of \You just won't believe what happened to us\' stories, with minds and - hearts firm 1} t.·nnvinced that our adventures ''ere just as. if not more. exciting than those of Jackie and Lee Bouvier. ~··rh;;;·;s·~····~ ; difference!!! ~· . ~ . • M\'PARE FOR: Ovllr 35 years e : MCAT ~~::;:s i : DAY Vo.lllmlnoushome • 8 It I stucly matenals • • LS .... Courses tnal ara • : ft 1 constantly updated : • GRE Small classes • : .. Broo~tyn center : : ATGSB ~e:~n~t~; : • ftl . . weekelldS • • DC AT Complete tape • e Ill facilities tor : • c~~~ reviews of class • . · lessons and tor use• • · of :wppl~entary • • FLEX materials • • · . · Make-ups tor : : ·ECFM. G m1ssed lessons e • at Dur Brooklyn • i NAT'L MeED BDS i • THOUSANDS HAVE : : RAfSED THEIR SCORES e • Branches in Metropolitan Area : iitf i :M N i e t!IIUCATIONAL CENTEft, LTD. e • TEST PREP4RA'iioN • • SPECIAliSTS SINCE 19.15 e • • \\\ [212} 336·5300 • • (516)538-4555• [201) 572-6770 : ,, 1675 East 16Jh Stm~ .. Brooklyl'l, N.Y. 11229 •• ••••••••••••• • ,/

all ay, at in of h St. CONCORDIENS/S, Wednesday, January 15, 1975 ________________ P_a_g_e_5_ Art Gallery in Schaffer Music Room The Last Time I Saw Paris ... Continued from Page 1 to give the audience a greater he photographed. In Ius understanding of what Hine set photograp·hs, as in aU great art, out to accomplish in his work. history has become alive and The gallery's first exhibition is poignant. a particularly appropriate one, The s e co ncl exhibition, says Ms. Rosenblum, since Hine sched11led for Jan. 27 to Feb. 7. was an artist concerned with will feature pai·ntings. drawings, effecting social change through and prints by Ashley Bryan, a his work. Hind's pictures professor of art a·! Dartmmtth. documented soc tal problems at Bryan. who illustrates children's the turn of the century. stories OH Black history. will For a period of twenty-five discuss his work on the show's years HiRe made thousancls of final night. photographs in the streets,- For the Feb. 17 to 2S teneme11t homes, mills and mines exhibition. Ms. Rosenblum has of this country. He sought to gathered to get her seven youRg express the strength and character professiona,J artists. mostly from of working men and women who, !\lew York City. Photography, to him, were stili primary in what painting, drawjng and sculptNre was theN called \the machine will be repres.e:flt,ed in this show. age.\ His photographs reveal his Photographs by Jerome respect for the courage and skill Liebling will be on display from of the workers behind tfue March 10 to 21. Liebling is a machines and his anger when professional photographer and these people and their families the chairman of the film and were overburdened, deprived and photography department at exploited. He wanted his Hampshire College. photographs to influence social Ullion College's First Annual change so that the hope of the Sculptl!lre S hoVI will take place newly arrived young immigrant at March 31 to April 11. For this Ellis Island would not have to show, Prof. M <Jorhead will select become the wistful despair of the works by stude nls in his sculpture eleven year Carolina mill worker. class. It is a measure of Hine's Another student s\Jow the First greatness that the familiar Annual Painting and pictures will be welcomed as old Photography Exhibition, follows friends, whom once known from April 3() to May 14. The cannot be forgotten. while the faculty members of the arts unknown ones will introduce us department will conclude the go a part of our history that gallery's first season with an ordinarily seems remote and exhibition of their works, May 20 different· from the way we live to June 12. todav. Hine's work reveals more \We tried to make the shows than· historical fact and his this season varied.\ says Ms. artistry has created more than Rosenblum. \since we want to sociological data. He brought out create more interest in the arts. the grace, the will. the intensity we want to attract everyone. and the hopelessness in the people artists and non-artist alike.\ by ··UfY & VJV\ !·rom the moment we set foot nn the 1-riday. 6:00 p.·m .• Rennes to Paris train, we !ihould have known that it was going to be a -,trange weekend. Alter passing hy car~ of compartmeFI!S fiUed with IHehriated French sailors on leave lor the weekend. we finally found a compartment with tW<) empty place' and settled do..vn lor the three hour and lorty-five minute train ride. Our six col'lege-aged compartment mates seemed nice enough. that is. until we took out the sandwiches we had brought along as supper. Apparently, they had never seen lettuce and tomato placed on a sandwich before. I hey went absolutely hysterical, insisting that only Americans 1\ ould think of putting salad on a 'andwich! !'hey proceeded to laugh at us for the durati<Jn of the ride. If we had had the nerve. we 1\ ould have told them that we lound the French dietarv habits a hit peculiar as 11ell. hr;111i, tripe (stomach-linings). pigs ears. and other sue h \delicacies\ were just not our cup of tea. Deciding to lt:ave well enough alone. we pretended to he sound as Jeep until the train pulled into Ciare \I nntparnassc. Paris. Rennes 11 eat her clearly followed us; it was pouring rain, windy and a brisk .N degrees F. In making preparations the 11eek before. we thought we had left no stone unt urned. We L'arefully made hotel reservations. ~110wing that it just wouldn't he too smart to look lor a room at Hillel Sponsors Military Strategist Union College Hillel is sponsoring a talk by Mr. Baruch Gorodish, from the Israel Aliyah Center, in New York, on learning, living and working in Israel. The talk will be at 7:00 P.M. in SS II 5. Mr. Gorodish is the Capital District's community consultant· from the New York office of the Israel Alivah Center. He came to Israel at the age of one year. from Poland, in 1933. He joined the Israeli Armv in 1953 and served its cause for 21 years, attammg the rank of Lieutenant Colonel. As a soldier, he fought in the 1956 Sinai Campaign and the 1967 War, as Major of the 'Golani' Brigade. During the Yom Kippur War, Gorodisrr was involved with the Operations Center of the Southern Command in Sinai. He was also a delegate to the disengagement talks at Tent Kilometer JO I of the southern command in December-January 1973-74. Mr. Gorodish is a most knowledgeable military strategist and aware of all aspects of the current Middle East military balance. A short film on the military intervention of the Israeli Army during the Yom Kippur War will also be shown. Mr. Gorodish will be available for individual consultation both before~ nd after the talk. Everyone is invited to attend. ~~\'-\*'-···'''\' JOEL BUCK BERG leads discussion at mef>tinp ol group responsibLe /nr hostinf( visitors to campus. The meeting dealt with a lack of response among the Garesmen: it arose out of concern (or the increa<ting use of non-Gatesmen as tour guides. Non- . Galesmen now conduct 30-40% of all tour.\. ll:OO p.n1. on a Friday night. W~ (O(lk the suoway to the Latin CJuarter and had nn trouble I indi ng the hotel. Wl: walked 111sidc. only to he greeted hy two old v.omen who informed us that they were sorry. but they Just rented otir room out. We- could try another hotel down the ~tre-et. Hming no other choice. we hesitantly walked into one hotel lohb~ tilled with a hunch or ~et:dy-looki lilg characters watching , tdev;ision. As we approached the desk. the proprietor. who !ltrongly resembled the ugly troll in \1 he I hree Hilly Goats Gruff\ children\ story, tore himself away !rom the dubbed American \\estern just long enough to say that yes. we were in luck. he had one room left and that would he 40 \cranes please. Relieved to have lound something. we climhed the ~teps tn the appropriate floor and then battled with the lock and key lor I 0 minutes. (Someday, hopefully, doorknobs will hecome -,tandard eyuipment in French hotels.) Well, the room looked decent enough, hut there was a \er:- strong draft coming !rom the- open v.indov.. Upon careful examination, we discovered that the .v.ood was warped and the 11indow just did not close. (\est Ia. ,·ie! \ext step on the agehda was tl) check out the hall W.C. (toilet1 \1 hich was located. conveniently enough. next to our room. :\ot heing ahle to locate the light, one of called to the other to come in the hall and stand guard. A~ v.e- t!roringl:- searched lor the- \hidden\ switch. the door to our rnnm slammed shut fa little heir !rom the open window) with the kc~. of course. being securely locked in~ ide. I he-re was only one thing to do ·go back down tt) tile lobhy and get the master key. I his 11ent tller real!) big with the '\:lientek\. 1\.ho then decided that \t' \\ere more fun to watch than .John Wayne. w.ho, incidentally, -,poke perfect French! I hat episode tncr. we finally went to ~Jeep. (By the way. we later t.bcmercd that the W.C. light \\L'l1t on when the W.C. door w.as lnmll clo!»ed and locked.) l h~ next morning we decide.cJ that we really didn't v.ant Ill 'pend the rest of the weekend Ill that hotel and thus. v.ent in -,earch of anothe-r room for our r.:maining two nights. We tinall~· \ouml one. hut we could only sta~ lor one night. I he next day. the l .'-.. people from U .:\ .E.S.C.O. \\ere arri\ing lor a convention. and all the available rooms had hel'n hooked throughout the city ol Paris·. Well. at least we had a 1oom lor the night. lhis one. ton. 1\as conveniently situated next 1<1 the W.C. \dmmistrative details taken n1rc ol, we set out to exrlore Pari~. and of course. do our 'har<' TYPING Reasonable Rates Fast Service 393-2233 -~ I SENIORS 1 Time to order graduation j !announcements- place your i l~'rder with Mrs. Marra in the 1 !· ~tudent Activities Office. \\t=======:=;:::;i::====a====c;::t;;;;====:====g::=;==:=:=:================:=======:======:::=======:=========:=:=:=::::::::::::::;.;;;:;::·=;=·=·=·=;=fi~: :·:· ·nk :·: '. ' . . L8VfS· ' ' .. ' Dave's. Mens Sllop 453 State St. (downtown Scbeneeudy) 'Serving Union For Three Generations~ • 166 J&)\ St .. • t-'or Uunt::-.1 ~rt.tce Union Sophmores Ask us for your garnet & white school key. We have been giving these to Union students for 55 years. Come in for yours. :::: .·\nd (it~ .lc-~1~· .. . :::: :~~:·:·:·=·=·=·=·:·:·:·:·:·:~=·:·:~:::~:~=~=~===~=::::::I::~~~=~§:::=:=:=:=:'~~='='=~=:~:::::!M;W::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::!:::::::::·:·=·=·:·=·=~=~=;:::::::::;::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:~: t1f the \touristy·· LiJillg~ l:1 .. ; touri~ts alw.ay, do. After 1 isiting the Cathedral of :\ otre- Dame. we t.le-cided to look lor a restaurant tor dinner. :\ ot just any restaurant 11ould do though. it had to oe one that was described 111 one of the many tremendous -,tudent guide hooks to Europe. \\ e carefully consulted the ,ub11a:- map, descended 3 flights PI !>tt·p~. 1~cnt hack up again to make wre v.e v.ere going the right 11 a~. de!»ce nded the steps again. !!llt on the train and got off at the next ~top:.ltidging from the map, 11c v.ere certain that that ~uhway \Ia~ the onl) meam to get through the Seine River and to 1 he ~tudent section. :\obody told ll'- about the bridge. Yes. that's right. We climhed J flights of 'teps. walked out onto the street, turned ·the corner. and there it 11as :\otre Dame Cathedral in all Its glory. One of us turned to the Pther and said \You me<m there's another one'?\ Yes. nov. go ahead and ~a:- it we took the subway around the corner! I he next morning. we were out trying to lind a room lor our la!it night in Paris. Luckily. we had met an American student who had a friend of a friend who was a hote I proprietor and would rent u-. a room lor the night. lhis room. too. was next to the W.C. I hi' had to he 'orne sort of a 11:cord. l\hree nights (in three different hotels l next to the hathroom! \ov.. ren1ember all of the stories you've heard about the paper thin yuality of f-rench 11 alb. We can attest to the fact that they're all true. Yes. we did hear quite a symphony of sounds t.lunng tho!»e three nights. < >ur la~t day in Paris was pn·tty 1111e\entful. We checked out the \kDonald'~ on the Champs- 11:->ees. almost got ran nver v.hile trying to cross the eight street Intersection at the Arc de ·1 riomphe, and \\ere approached h) innumerahlc Algerians v.hosc L'Iltire L nglish \ ocahular:- cnn,i-.ted of 2 phrases \Do ym 11ant to come to m:. room anc -,pend the night \\it h me'!\ 1111 mediately I oil owed h~ \'i ot '>onofahiteh American girl (s).\ (. omlnrtahl) seated on tht. train lor the return journey. wt \I ont.lly\ waved good-h:.e t' Paris. and prepared our repertoin pf \You just won't oelieve what happened to us\ stories. witt mind~ and hearts lirml) wnvinced that our adventure~ 11erc iust a,, if not more. exciting than those of Jackie and Lee Bouvier. ~··r;,;;;·;s·~····~ : difference!!! ~· . ~ : PREPARE FOR: o\\r 35 years • • MCAJ of &xpenence e • and auccess • • • DAJ voluminous home • • study matenats ., • e LS AT Courses !hat ore • : ft I consiantly ulldated : : GRE Small classes :. • Brooklyn cenler •. ftJGSB open days. •: evemngs &. weekends : DC A'J Complete tape • 0 ft tac•ht•es tor : 0 C~R:r rev•ews ot c•as~ 0 lessons and tor use• e of supptlmentary e : FLEX maLer•als : Make-ups tor e • ECFIVIG m1ssed lessons e e at our B1ooklyn 8 8 center 0 i NAT'L MED BDS ! • THOUSANDS HAVE e : RAISED THEIR SCORES • • 0 Branches '\ MelropoliLan Area 0 =~.a i ! IUIPLIN : e EDUCATIONAL CE~ER, LTD •• . - e SP:~&r, i:r£;~.~t~~~J8 • • • • \\\ 1212] 336-5300 • e (516]538-4555 • [201]572-6770 : t~ 1675 East 15lh Stree~: Brooklyn, N.Y. 11229 o ••••••••••••••

·, .1975 More Key Appointments To :F oUow Cahill, Ha:rkness Due to vacations, (:one_ordiensh was caught napping on the Cahill and Harkness stories. However, our sourc¢s are once again~active and have struck paydirt. We ha,ye learned that the string c;>f surprise appointments will not end'. at two. 'Upcoming announcements to be made soon will include: Fo>mer Philadelphia Police Chief and. Mayor Frank Rizzo will take over as l)ir:ector of ' Security and Safety .. . Contract negotiations are under I \\-ay to bring Chief ·Jay Strongbow to the campus as varsity wrestling coach. Dr. Joyce Brothers joins the ~ ; counselling center staff as a .Character Research Project. Richard M. Nixon, a small- town :lawyer from California, has been awarded the Spiro T. Agnew Chair in ~Political Ethics, Two faces that soon could be seen at Union. On the left is R. M. Nixon, a potentialfaculty member,· on the right, Chief Jay Strongbow, future wrestling coach. Counsellor to Students. She. will also chair the Psychology Department. Dr. David Rubin 'Will b.e hired to run a more comprehensive pre- medical advisory program ... The sex doc:tor\ will also be in charge of the informary, Finally, our most valuable source, code named '\Fanny Hill'', reports that an extremely wealthy Union Alum nus ( dass .of ought· three) is preparing to make a maJor donation to the coflege. lt seems ·the mail, an extremely successful cantelope farmer, has a deep lo\'ve for animals. Since there are far fewer cats on campus now than there were in ought--three, he wants to provide funds for ·.the construction of a cat-house on ~:ampus .. President Bonner; feeling that a $1.5 million dollar ~at­ house is too big a gift to turn down,. will announce as his choice for Dir-ector ·of the facility the· 1973 Collt:.gi<i.te Cat-House Director of the Year; U.nda Lovelace. In appointing Miss Lovelace, Bon-ner wishes to \'signal ah intention to· he competitive and to estatihsh a winning attitud,e at Union.\ Social Committee Fights Cancellations Grouc-ho Marx has a:greed to accept a post as Director of the by MARC S. JAFFE Winter Term has a lot of holes in it, and empty dates - but they In the last two weeks or so, the are working diligently to remedy Social Committee's Winter term the situation. schedule of events has been I he Social Committee got off plagued by cancellations. Among to a decent start last Saturday the notable cancellations are BiHy night with a danc.e in the gym Joel, who dropped Union to play featuring a group called \Taxi.\. at Rochester for $1,500 more, and Leo Kottke with Jesse Colin I he next definitely scheduled young. Other lesser-known concert is on February I, and will cancellations include Wendy feature David Bromberg and the Waldman, an excellent up-and- Buffalo Gals. Bromberg, whom corning singer and writer in the I'm sure most of you are familiar 1 olk-rock vein. who wasn't with, is one of the best guitar available at the date we needed dobro, and mandolin players her for; and lhe James CC'tton around today. Keeping his Blues Band, who the Social repertoire almost entirely to folk Committee decided to cancel and blue grass, we are guaranteed themselves because of an expected a really enjoyable . show. The poor turnout. As you can B~ffalo Gals, w~o are a~peanng . probably imagine, the current \With Bromberg,. ts a five-p1ece, all- . Social Committee schedule for lemale, uptempo •. country- bluegrass band, who g1ves a very . . ' Cabaret Initiates, Game Night :\ow that you have had a week to look the term over, you can get down to the real reason that you ..:arne back this term: Cabaret! We can help you stoke the ofd I urnace and keep those radiators in your brain sizzling away through the coldest weather. Yes, for winter term Cabaret has two ways to thaw you out and loosen you up. The first is our old standby, the Thursday night performances. Thursday night has not changed a drop, you can still get all the beer, wine, punch, hread and cheese that you care to, and still see all the top-quality talent you can stand. But that's not all. This term you can get a f~ee bonus night each week to leave it all outside. Starting next Tuesday (Jan. 21) Cabaret will have a .game night every Tuesday beginning at 9 pm and running until who knows when. Come on over and take it out on your best friend. Beat the pants off him at bridge, blow him off the mat at chess, grind him into submission at Monopoly and while you are at it, have some coffee, tea, ice cream, cake, or any number of goodies. You can even meet new game partners and potential victims. Imagine that! Hy the way, in our never-ending search for diversity, we are still trying to gather games of every size. shape, description, rriake and model. If you have a game which is more or less intact and you feel like doing your good deed for 1975, why not bring it around to the Cabaret room? It will be very much appreciated. So remember out there in I.ibraryland, the Cabare~ is open I or business once again. Don't miss out on our spectacular opening night this Thursday, and don't work too hard! ·coUNSELORS: Physically fit, sailing, swimming (WSI), tripping, general .. Adirondack Swim Trip Camp (Boys) ·- 39 Mill Valley Rd., Pittsford, N.Y. 14534 - MOFFETT'S Welcomes Everyone back for Winter term, and has been for 38 years come in, and let us help you get it off to a nice start. Moffett's Liquor. Store 1505 VAN VRANKEN AVE. SCHENECTADY, N.Y. 12308 -·- I I I I I t I I exciting performance. Being good friends with Bromberg we can expect, or at least hope for, a jam session with Bromberg and the Huffalo Gals. after going through a few changes. is supposed to be better than ever . .and they putorta show of folk-rock tunes. that is very pleasant to listen to. March 'I was the next scheduled concert, but right now this date is empty due to all the cancellations. The next scheduled event after this i$ on March 8th, and it is a dance in the gym featuring Ellis Hall, a new, good, funky, black band hom Bostoh whose music is a cross between Stevie Wonder and Sly Stone. It should be a heavy .bQogying dance! v Aftilough the schedule might seem pretty complete even with all the cancellations, it is hoped, to be more complete in a week or so, filling in the open dates. There is the possibility of a cheap concert on this Saturday night, with admission at $1.00, but this is not definite as of yet. Just be sure not to miss the Bromberg concert on Feb. I --;- it prornises to be a really good time. I he next scheduled concert is on February 15, with Orleans, and also features as an extra added attraction, the return by po.pular demand, the new improved Goebel and Lang Band. Orleans, is a very good ••soft\ rock band from Ithaca, who have just come out with a new album which is supposed to be unbelievable. Goebel an<l Lang, r------~------~--------------~----------------------------------------~ l , .. Now that yoU've lini8hed where do you start? College is just about over. And that's a problem. Because now you must pick a career that may occupy your next forty years, deeply involve you intellectually and emotionally and help y.ou earn thre~-quarters o~ a million dollars or more. · Where do you start? Try The Travelers. Whateveryourforte, it can probably fh1d expression in one of the myriad types o·f businesses we're involved in. Data processing is an especially big concern. ffyou're a bright, ~n ... thusiastic DP major,. think.about jo.ining our staff--a large ·staff of sharp, inventive special'ists, charged with getting the most out of the -sophisticated equipment in our mrultimillion dollar Data Center.lt's vital. lt'.sdynaniio; It's -challen.ging: And there;s plenty of room at the top. · · A TRAVELERS REPRESENTATIVE WILL VISIT YOUR CAMPUS ON JANUARY 28. MAKE AN APPOINTMENT THROUGH YOUR PLACEMENT DIRECTOR AND GET STARTED QN THE PATH TO A SATISFYING AND REWARDING CAREER. THE TRAVELERS AN EQUAl. OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER M & F ' .. ,, ' •• • ( t t .( (

CONCORDIENSIS, Wednesday, January 15, 1975 Page? --------------------_.Films Review Students Call for Porno Fli·cks by ALISON JAMESON showi11:g of such films was raised. One p<Jssibility would be for the Film Committee to charge more lor an x film to insure making a are als~ considering conducttng a survey among faculty members since they, too, are a part of the . college community. A topic under consideration on the UnioQ campus these days is the showing of x•rated movies. A pornographic film was sche.duled lor Homecoming Weekend, but was cancelled at the last minute because the film· did not arrive in ..rrofit. This way, relying on tax money would not be necessary. Members of the film committee v. oul.d like to see a policy of blanket freedom· within the law instituted. The responses to the questionnaire reveal an overwhelmingly positive response to the question of whether or not x-rated films should be shown. In light of these findings, the committee is continuing its investigations of implications to x-rated films in other areas of the college. I h~ questionnaire also asked that if a policy was adopt-ed should it be based on student opiniOl1. alone. S3l students by JACK PITNEY time to be shown. While in the process of .arranging for another x He can trust no one.-, for .. even his · .l .. l·m I' · th' t th F'l ·. 1 · . -or , ts ·erm, e · r m . answered yes and 137 said no. Director Francis Ford Coppola is on a winning streak. 'First he made The Godfather, t~e top~ gros$·ing movie of a'll time. Then he came up with The Conversation, which was by far the best fillll of 1974; until the premiere of his next picture, The Godfather, ·Part ll. brother· will turn traitor fot the Committee was asked to submit a right pr.ice... He must withdraw recotnmenclation for a policy frol'il.· an relations:hips in which he concerning what films could be . could be vulnerable; in doing so, shown to the administration. In he loses his family and fri<:!lds. l)rder to determine the students' AH he has. left is his power. viewpoints a questionnaire was distributed at registration. · J>..acil)o's performance is superb. He. underplays Michael, evincing his hatred and anger with an icy l\his movie extend-s the stare and an im:periol!.s tilt. of the Corleone saga both forWard and . head. De N iro is also quite .good, backward in time, crosscutting considering that most of his between the rise of Vtto Corleone dialogue is \in a difficult 1 tatian (Robert De NircJ) at the turn of· dialect. The supporting· cast is the century and the moral ~n~for;mly exc~llent. Lee ·degeneration of his soh Michael ., Stras~erg has . received the most (AI Pacirto) in the 1950's. Even on <~ttent10n for hts ro~~ as a Lansk~­ t he rn ost . superficial level, the h ke m obst~r' but John Cazale. s scope of GM{ather U is breath- ~ortrayal of Fred~ Corleone _tS taking. Coppola spent millions of ~ven better: Fredo IS weak,. stuptd . dol1ars to repr<lduce the sights ci~d . sometimes ~reachero~s; but and .s-ounds of Little Italy, rural ( a~ale makes . him pathetic and Sicily and pre-Castro Cuba. ulttmately tragic. But the real worth. of this film lies in its m~al and intellectual . . . Godfather li is not- perfect .. Paramount pressured Coppola to prepare the movie for a Christmas release, so he had to cram several weeks of editing into a few days. The haste shows: it is sometimes difficult to tell who has killed whom and when. INevertheles!), Godfather II r.emains a truly great The crucial question in the survey was: \Whether or net you would come to see them here, do you think x-rated films should be offered <:tt Union?\ The overwhelming response was 1408 answering yes to .84 saying no. However, the next question, \Would you come to .see. an x- · rated film if it were shown'?\ yeelded differen.t results: I 097 yes, .J21 no,. and 26 maybe. Some students indicated that they would come to see certain x-rated films, such as those considered to have redeeming social value, but not hard-core pornographic films. Another question asked ·if the college should adopt any sort of policy concerning the showing of x-rated films on campus. 860 students respondt:;<;l with a \yes\ answer and 625 said \no.\ What should a policy, if adopted, be'! !\early 900 of the 1263 students who answered this question indicated blanket freedom within the law should be allowed. depth. U1llike its predecessor, (;odfather II offers varying degrees of villainy. As he grows to manhood in America, young Vito learns how to lie and kill. His first major accomplishment is the murder of a two-bit extortionist- a baptism of gunfire. Fifty years later, Michael's life is deeply stajned with vi<llence and deceit. motion picture. Its characters Since the number of students seem real, f~r they are ~iolent a~~·\· who answered that they would self-destructiVe. The ftlm malf~s:_.::::.:not .go to see an x-r.ated movie them live by showing how they (321) was significant, the question die. of ,~!tether or not tax money I he film committee is presently continuing its investigation with the offices of Public Relations and A.lumni Affairs to determine their -views on the matter. !hey Union Book Adopted New Policy for Dispensing In the .past, students paid $10 in the freshman year to reserve a yearl>ook for their · sophomore and junior years. Seniors got their books free. Extra books were given out free in a first come-first serve basis. This system was very bad and unfair to illose who did pay for the book_ Recently the Tax Committee met with the Yearbook Staff and redesigned the system. It was decided that all students, faculty staff, and friends of Union College would have to pay $5.00 for a Union Book. Only FOR LIQUOR AND WINE Try Jdce ·- lipstein's graduating seniors would receive the Union Book free of charge and this book would, of course, be sent directly to their homes since the Union Book cornes out in the fall following graduation . If you would like to order the 1975 Union Book, please see Mrs. Marra in the Student Activities Office ($5.00 per book). t _______ ,_, . TUESDAY 9 t JAN. 21 t t 8 and 10 f I CITIZEN I -: KANE l t 25 cents t t SS Olei ' t • f ORSON f ' shou[ct. be used towards the _......_. 464 State Street FR4-1888 f WELLES . f ! AT HIS BEST • Hugh Allen Wilson during the second of his .four organ recitals .scheduledthis year. LeVI~ Daft'i~~M• Sllop· . ----·· , ......... .............. : .. I Carlo's Pizza &. :· • • • • 1 Spaghetti llouse : 1 Under Ne\V Management I I 461 NOTT ST. = • BIG N PLAZA • -• 377,.0082 • • • • OPEN 7 DAYS • • SPERCENT • =.__ DISC:()UNTW/I.D. I .................. Welcome Home EIJ{Q~pein l'ravellers! '\P\\..~l:;~~e afifvisi nr old ~-\[ri_ends .at .. the Bo.otf.ry, an. d \'?~ar lUe~~lt fa\hio~~ _,,_ · ~E ;.~w·;·':.: ... J '~ . ~~~~ -ar. \'' \ . . 1, \ $? A \ W 14 \:tAY STREET <R~~,e \·~z._ l'-~<:~r.l. SCJ:IE'NECTADY, N.Y. ~-\'\\- i • / ' 1 . . u· Don't. forget- ~itb each purchase over $5.00 we give y~~)_ $1.00 off when vhu show us your ID,. c.. ~ -,,,._......,.;,....._•••• ,,,,.__,,:,:.:;;::::::,._,jf,.~N>~.,...,.,....,....~ ..... ~··...._.-,,,,,,,. __ .. ,,,,,,_m•••••--~····~~ I ! --------· ;!llllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllilllllllllllliiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIDIIIIIIIIIIIIIUIIIIIIl!: ~Enroll in the Baldridge ~ I Reading Program I - - = = - - - - - - - - = = = = - - i LEARN READING 5 - - = = § TECHNIQUES JN iii ; YOUR OWN TEXTBOOKS 5i = = - - - - - - §! Some of the subjects to which students have applied the § = techniques are listed below: = - - § Afric:an Studies European History :: iii American History Fine Arts = - - iii Anthropology Frenc:h 5 = = a Biochemistry Geography 5 = Biology Geometry 5 = = iii Botany Government 5 iii English Literature Mathematics 59 § Calculus Philosophy § - - § Comparative Literature Physics 5 § Computer Science Political Theory = 5 Economics Psychology 5 ~ Ecology Religion ; 5l Economic Analysis Social Psychology 5 ~- Education Foundations Sociology ;§ a Ethics Urban &:onomics 5 -· - 5. The techniques also apply to pleasure reading. := - - - - = = a OVERALL GOALS .. 5 5 • con<;entration • $peed 5 ; • retention • comprehension ! a MATERIALS 5 - - 5 Pri-marily your oWn ·books, 5 5 so bring to each session 5 - - a • TEXTBOOKS, and other academic reading 5 § • A LIGHT NOVEL, of your choice ; 5 All participants. receive a reading and study techniques book. ii = = -· - a ·= ~- Start Date: February 3, 1975 § = = § End Date: March 7, 1975 § - - = For more information and ~ 5 5 = iii to enroll contact: 5 § Dean William Weifenbach § § Graduate and Special Programs § !RIIIlllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllliiiiiiiiiiiUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIfii

Page8 CONCORDIENSIS, Wednesday,. January 15, 1975 Concordiensis does not usuallv enter into national news . . stories but this story which appeared in the January 6 edition of the Village Voice is deemed worthwhile for our readers to know. I RUNNIN' SCARED RY MARY PEROT NICHOLS .Make like Socrates. That's my only New Year's. res.olution for 1975. There are a lot of funny·things going on that raise questi.ons I don't know the answers to. For example. the New Y6rk Times's new investigation of the · CIA ·s domestic spying. The day after Christmas I read in the Times that Clark M. Clifford. the former Secretary. of Defense \\~ho helped drart the 1947legislationsetting up the CIA. urged Congress today to form a special committee to investigate the published charges of domestic spying by that agency.\ Now Clark Clifrord. as the Times's story points out. was ··a member and later chairman of the · President's l<'oreign Intelligence Advisory Board.\ The Board. says . the Times. \was ~et up by President Kennedy. after the failure of · the Bay of Pigs operation in Cuba in !961. to provide high-level outside review of secret intelligence operations.·· Well and good. rm glad !.\ir. CHfford is so concerned about the CIA's role. But the real question. which the Times hasnot yet mked. · is how well this oversight Board was overseeing the CIA when that agency was actually performing criminal acts within the l'nited States during the Nixon Administration. Even more important a question is who· was the single most important member of the Foreign. Intelligenl.'e Advisory Board · . under Nixon and why didn't the Times ask him to comment or the ' CIA ·s domestic spying? <Clifford went off the Board in 1968. 1 The single most important and best known member <lf the Foreign Intelligence Advisory Bom:d was. of cours£'.•our ne\\ Viee President. ;\ielson A. Rockefeller. Rockefeller w<:~s appointed to the Baard by Nixon in 1968. he told the Senate Rules Committee on Thursday. November 14 during his confirmation hearing. And. he said. under questioning by Senator Claiborne Pe11 .(D .. R.I. 1. that he , was still a member of that Board. may have a suspicious mind. but I wondered last week if the New York Times waited to break the CIA domestic spying stury · until Rockefeller's confirmation hearings were over. Rockefe.ller ' had already gotten himself into trouble 1 with Congresswoman Liz Holtzman particularly> by waffling on what he thought of the CIA ·s · covert operations in Chile. So I called Seymour Hersh. the Times reporter on the CIA story. and asked him if the 1imes had held the story. ··You are aboUt the 48th person to ask me that.\ Hersh replied. He expressed wonderment of the paranoia people outside the Times have about that newspaper. Hersh said that he had not told .. Abe\ (Abe Rosenthal. Times Managing Editon about the story until \last Thursday ... Well. when I spoke to Hersh. ··last Thursday\ meant the day that Nelson Rockefeller was confirmed by Congress and became what Bella Abzug. and several other:; in that day's House debate. referred to as. \our acting\ or \de facto\ President. The story in Time Magazine 1 Dec 30 issue> ·iast week on Rocky's confirmation rai$ed even more, questions. Time said flatly al:xlut the House debate on Rocky's confirmation and the preceeding hear- ings. \yet nothing had come out to impugn his character ... Has the age of Newspeak really arrived? Before I read Time. I had just finished reading the transcript of the House debate in the Congres· . sional Record. There were plenty of statements from members of Congress that impugned Nelson Rockefeller's character. For example. Representative Jerry Waldie m .. Cal. ~.said. \!fit is true. and I believe it to be true. as the gentleman from New York !Otis Pike. D. 1 suggested, that the nominee enga~ed in criminal conduct <the italics are mine''> in the matter of his loans converted to gifts .. Now. if accusations of criminal conduct don ·t constitute impugning· a man's character. ~'hat does? Perhaps the editors of Time magazme would like to answer that question. aut I am grateful to Time ~ll the same for raising in my mind what may be the most imp\ortant question for 1975. That question is how Nelson Rockefeller is going to become actual rather than ··acting\ President of the United States. Time last week reported that former Oregon Governor Tom McCall. a Republican. has in mind a \hazy concept of a 'Third Force· in American politics. a kind of nonpartisan alliance of reform-minded citizens.\ Gee. I said to myself before. that sounds just like John Gardner's Common Cause. which Dick Reeves of New York Magazine revealeda couple of weeks ago to have been heavily funded by the Rockefellers. Then 1 read on: \McCall had discussed this Third ,Force with various political figures. including Elliot Richardson. .[ohn . Gardner (surprise~ l. Ralph Nader. and Eugene McCarthy.\ Now Time magazine is in a position to know what is really going on because its Chairman of the Board. Andrew Heiskell. was one ofthe three original incorporators of Common Cause. The big question I have is will this \Third Force become a Third Party that \Vill help elect Nelson A. Rockefeller President in 1976? 721 ALTAMONT AVE. NO DELIVERY CHARGE. WITH TWO PIZZAS R DU.Ivt:llt UNTIL MIDNIGHT' C•D37+5611 ALLIN THE FAMILY 123 JAY ST~ Kitchen Open 11:30 A.M.-10 P.M. Bud on Draft 346-9635 Laser Research by Union Prot Even the radio waves are getting crowded these days .. l\hat fact,. says Dr. Thomas (ialantowicz, helps explain the significance of his two-year 1:esearch project Involving a new . type of laser. Galantowicz is an assistant professor of electrical engineering at Union College. \'Because frequency space is heceming overcrowded, people are gei-ng to higher and higher frequencies,\ he explains, \however only limited research has been done in the higher freq.uency range between microwaves and light waves since very few efficient s.ources are available.\ Aided by a $51,000 grant from the National Aeranautics and Space Admini.stration, (ialantowicz will attempt to characterize a new source of these higher frequency waves. He will' design .and analyse a far-infrared laser that acts as a source of coherent radiation at submillimeter wavelengths. His project is eRtided \Design and Analysis ·of Optically Pumped Submilllmetet Waveguide Masers.\ Communications and radar are two areas in which this project might have applications, and, says Galantowicz, that is one reas.on :\ASA was willing to 'fund it. ''The laser that I'm building emits electromagnetic waves that range in length from 100 microns to 1000 microns, the so-called far- infrared 0~. subt:nillimeter region,\ says Gala.n-towicz. Such wavelengths are longer than those of visible light but shorter than those of radio waves and microwaves. l\hese submillimeter waves have higher frequencies than radio waves, and consequently, says the Union professor, they also have the capability of handling larger amounds of information - a fact that has significance for communications systems. \The carrier wave for a local radio station can carry only so much fnformation,\ Galantowicz point_s. out, ''much greater capacities are required, for projects such as NASA's Earth Resources Technology Sa~ellite.\ I his satellite, as it circles the earth, .maps and charts the How of the earth's resources. ''With seflsors, it can look at agricultural areas and chart the locations of diseased and healthy crops. It can lo0k at rivers and stud\y the flow of poUutants,\ explains (ialantowicz. At present, the data collected hv this satellite is relayed back to the Goddard Space Flight Center in Maryland via microwave links. Hv 19SO, however, the project will have too large a data rate for present microwave systems, says (ialantowicz. \'The type of laser I'm building could be a possible candidate for use in this satell.ite's communications system,\ he adds. \Scientists already know that -the higher the frequency of a carrier wave, the gr.eater the amount of ·information it can carry,\ he says, \what we don't know are the properties of these submillimeter wave laser seurces and that is what l'm interested in describing.\ For instance. in the design of a communications system, an important consideration is the effect of a propagation path on a signal. Data must be collected to measure the effect of rain, humidity and clouds on the propagati0n of the .signal. Whether his research has a p p I i cat i-o n s i n N A S A' s communications technology depends, of course, on the results of his experiments. says Galantowicz. In any event, his project will provide new informafion \about the power source in the area of the spectrum that has very few sources.\ Also, says Galantowicz, his laser should prove particularly useful as a physicisfs tool. In the laser Galantowicz builds, a carbon dioxide laser will serve as the \pump\ or energy source, and a gas of organic molecules will be the atomic medium. He expects to complete his project by June, 1976. A graduate ,student, David Proulx, is a project assistant. Ualantowicz, 3 I. has been an assistant professor of', electrical engineering at Union since I 970. He did his undergraduate work at the University of Detroit and received his doctorate in electrical engineering from Ohio State l r niversity. New Film Series \Pioneers of Modern Painting\ a .six-part film series written and narrated by Kenneth Clark is now heing shown every Monday night at 9:30 P.M. in SS016. The 45-minute ·films cover the life and work of six leading artists of the late , 19th and 20th centunes Eduard Manet, · Paul ·cezanne, Claude Monet, Geovges Seurat,. Henri Rousseau, and Edvard Munch. Distributed by the National Galler~of Art free of cost to many colleges with enrollments under 2200. films were obtained after inquiries by Prof. Hans Freund of the Department of Comparative Literature. The first two~films on Manet and Cezanne have already been shown. The next film on Georges' Seurat will be shown on Jan. 27. The films are free and all are invited to attend. TERADYNE M\AKES -SENS,E· If You're An ELECTR-ONICS E'NGINEER who • .. loves engineering for its own sake; is a natural born tinkerer, just as comfortable with a soldering iron as with a slide rule. - · ..• wants .the freedom to follow your interest as they develop- whether they lead to circuit design, test engineering, ·field engineerin,g, applications engineering or . software development. · •.. wants to translate your technical knowledge into practical, economical solutions to industrial problems. ..• wants to join a company that is big enough to offer engineers the resources they need l)ut small enough so they can make themselves heard. • ••• would like the coJ;~venience of working in a downtown location surrounded by goo~ theatre, restaurants a~d s.tores • ... wants to be with a fast-growing company that depends . on capable people to keep it growing. If all this MAKES SENSE to you, see our r-epresentati-ve on campus on Wednesday, February 19, 1975 183 Essex Street, Boston, Mass. 02111 An equal opportunity employer M IF p Mil dis< the Jar, } 8 f ' .... :lsr: ad go• he Na est lsr .SW Isr SCI fu av s( N w CC J~ ei S( pi . a· f f( gl B a E R n \] ( •

CQNCORPIENSIS, WeiJnesdaf, January 15, 1975 Page9 Abba Eban .·to Speak iOOOO<X><AA>C Secret MeetingsO<X><X>O<><AA Abba E.ban, former Israeli Minister of Foreign Affairs, will discpss \Prosp.ects fqr P¢ace in the Middle· East\ an Monday, Jan. 27 at Union College. His talk is scheduled to begin at S p.m. in Memorial Cha'pel. Since the e~tabli~hment of :lsni:el in 1948, 'Eban has been act·ively involved in the countt'y's government and politics. I.n 1947, he appeared before the United N ati·o·m• to argue for the establishment of the state of Israel, and later, he pleaded successfully for the admission of Israel to the U.N. From 1950 to 1959, Eban served as lsrael's ambass!ldor to the United States. Following his resignation, he returned to Israel and entered politics as a member of the Israel Labor Party. Eban subsequently served as Minister of Education and Culture, Deputy Prime Minister, . and, fr.om 1966 to 1974, as Israeli Minister for Foreign Affairs. An auth0f of numerous articles on the Middle East, Eban is a Fellow of the. W odd A.:;:ademy of Art and Science, Stockholm, and is the recipient of numerous honorary ·degrees. Eban's lecture is being jointly s.ponsored by Union College and the Schenectady Jewish Community CounciL Fashionable Career School maintains an active lifetime pfacerrt.ent service for its gradnJites. . -~~1~~~-- { !:'.>--- . :i t~!!Ji Each year 'up to eight $2200 full-tuition fashion fellowships are awarded by the T ohe-Coburn School for Fashion Careers in New York City to seni·or men an~. women gradtmting ftorn four-year colleges before August Jl and January l. Now i!l its thirty- eighth year, this widely\known school of fashion retailing and . promotion wiU make its annual Ten full weeks of paid work in top department or specialty stores ar•d other organizations provide on-the;iob experience, an exciting supplement to classroom Members o,fsecret meetings- what's happening? . awa·rds this spring. Each Fellowship covers the full tuition for the One Year Co11rse, which grants an Associate Degree in {Jccupational Studies (A.Q.S.) authorized by the New York State Education Department Board of Regents and an accredited member, National Association of Trade and Technical Schools (NATTS). Fashion fellowships are granted to encourage. promising 'colle:ge : graduates to enter, a profession which offers unusua I opportunities for advancement to weiHrained people. Graduates. hold •a wide variety of executive pos~~ions ... in men:handising, advertising, fashion coordination on magazines or newspapers and - as owners of their own shops. The training.:-- New York City, the center of fashion, provides the broad background for the carefully- orgariized' One Year Course, plann~d to equip its graduates for executive positions in the fashion field. Close contact with the fashion industry comes through . frequent lectures by well-known fashion pers.onalities plus visits to manufactl!rers, buying offices, fashion shows, museums and through so.tial events. Seniws may secure Fashion Fellowship registration blanks from the Placement Office, the Dean's Office, or from the · DIRECTOR OF ADMISSIONS Tobe~Coburn .School for ,, Fashion Careers, Ltd. S5.1 Madison A venue New York, New York 10021 . Registration closes February 15, 1975. While the pe.ople of this co1,1ntry are calling for a more open government, Union College's Steering Committee, the student governing body, closed its Thursday, January 9, meeting to the public. \No\ Jeff Broomes, President of the student body st~ted, ''this is not a Steering Committee meeting, just a bunch of fnends getting together.\ Jim Kane interjected, \yeah just a bunch of friends.\ The only students invited to the !get-together' were members of the Steering Committee an!i the meeting was held in the Steering Committee office. Though only four members are shown in this picture (left to right) Brian Tucker, Jeff Bro?mes, John Dolan and Jim Kane; three other members not shown m the picture: Bill Undethill, Karen Whitman, and _I?ebbie Glasser also were present. The other members of the comm~ttee for o.ne reason or another were unable to attenc:l. The commtttee conststs of 11 persons and a quorum for business is nine. One supposes dosed meetihgs are necessary (for reasons of National Security?). Cahill's arrival .Continued t'rom Page 1 At -Union, Cahill steps into a classic small'·college coaching . situation. U:nion ooes not give 'Big Bang'Comes to Union athletic grants.-in-aid and it bases its financial aid decisions on the student's need. The college belongs to the New England Small College Athletic Conference, an I !-member grouping of academically-selective small colleges in Maine, Vermont, Massachusetts, Connecticut, and ~e:w York. Dr. Ralph A)pher of the General Electric Research and Development Center will be the first college convocation speaker of the term oil Wednesday, Ja,riuary 22 at 8:00p.m. in SSO:t6. The topic of Dr. Alp her's talk (which will be supplemented by slides) is \Evidence for ~ 'Big- Bang' Theory of Cosmology.\ · Alpher, who h<~lds a Ph.D. in theoretical physics from George Washington · University, is a wiMly-known authoritY in the tields of astrophysics, cosmology, and the physics of fluids. He has authored more than 60 papers published in ptgfession~l journals.· One of ~r. ;Alp~e! s most notable talents IS h1s ab1hty to make such compl'ex subjects as cosmology (the study c;>f the origin and evolution of the univ.erse) intelligible to the non-speciali~t. · His lecture is pitched to the interested layman, and it promises to be worthwhile for persons from all parts of the college community. lh'. Alpher will also be available for informal discussion with interested students and fa~Ulty on Wednesday afternoon at 4:30 in room Nll6 in the Science and Engineering Center. YOUR URGENT ATTENTION The Steering Committee will hold a public ·meeting tonight, January 15, at 7:00 pm in the Davidson Lounge . the following is the agenda for the meeting: l) Discussi<~n of the removal of committee members- Alison Brickley 2) Waiver of regulations against the use of student tax funds to bring in outside people- Cathy lanelli 3) Chairman for and functions of the ,Conduct Committee- Jeff Broome!! ~---~ PREPARE FOih LSAT/ :=~s:r GRE/E:ON REVIEW CGUIIIEI IDW lEI .. FGRIIEt--0111111 CWSES FOI' lnfottnatiGtt CGtttocf:. Jose'-h A. Urso TESTtiG REVI6W SERVICE 4211orwood ive.,llb1ny 122CI 489-1254 Everybody's going through changes I JAN. 18- 2:30, 7, 10 JAN.19- 7~ lO Student treks from the library to the Science Center across steep and. icy banks. An unneeded accident soon will occur, and common sense dictates that new paths should be laid. especially in two qreas that lead to the Science Center. - ' Starring MALCOLM MeDOWEL:t: of \A Clockwork Orange\ R. ·-

··, Page 10 CONCORDlENSJS; --------------------- January I 5. 1975 BLITHER Ther~ will be a meeting for students interested in W2UC, the Union College Amateur Radio Society, on Thursday, January 23, I 975, at 8 .p.m. in Strauss Lounge. You don't have to hold a license to attend. * * * * The next meeting of the Student-Faculty Bridge Club will be held on Tuesday, January 21, at 7:45 p.m. in the Hale House Upper Lounge. AU bridge players are welcome to attend, whether or not you have attended any previous meetings. Any questions, please call Dave Gordon at 346- 9895. * * * * Ski Patrol Meetip,g: Thursday, 4:30 p.m. January 16 at Strauss Lounge. All members must attend. * * * * There will be an open general meeting for all women in the Uruon College community on Friday, January 17, from 12:00- 1:30 p.m. in SSOI6. Students, faculty, secretades, clerks, administrators, nurses, housekeepers and women of all other job categories are welcome to attend. The purpose of this meeting is to discuss the formation of the President's Commission on the Status of Women. * * * * Students interested in a career in purchasing management are eligible for scholarships in the 1975-76 year of $300 each. Applications and information are available from Dr. Dennis Edwards, Assistant to the President, Russell Sage College, Troy, N.Y. 12180. Hillel is starting a new p-rogram, for all Jewish students here on campus, and anyone else who may be interested. The program is called a CHA VURAH, or friendship group, whose .purpose is for social interaction, discussion, and just having a .good time. The first meeting of the Chavurah will be this Friday night, at 8:30 p.m., immediately following our Friday night services, _ in Strauss Lounge of Carnagie Hall. This week we will not have anything special, just a get together and discussion. In the future we will have special discussions on topics such as Jewish identity, and other social, fun programs. In you are interested in meeting your fellow Jewis!J students here at Union, come to Carnegie Hall's Strauss Lounge, Friday night at 8:30. For those interested, Sabbath services will begin at 7:30 p.m. * * * * Modern Dance Workshop is again being offered on Monday and Wednesday from 4:30 to 6:00 p.m. in Arts 202. Helga Prichard is ·teaching. It is still possible to earn credit. * * * * There will be a meeting of the Union College PYE club Thursday night at 7:00 in Strauss· Lounge. All members of the college community who are interested in environmental problems are invited to attend. New project ideas are always welcome. Interested persons who are unable to attend should call Gary Lovett at 346-9211 or Paul Siegel at 370-6437 * * ** The Biology Department will be sponsoring a seminar given by James Kanz of Tufts University. The title of the seminar is \Migrant and Non-Migrating Monarch Butterflys\ and it will be•held ori Wednesday, January, 22 at 4:30 in BH 207. Refreshments will be served at 4:00 * * * * To all seniors who were away fa,ll term: If you are planning to submit a photo to the Yea-rbook, it must be a 3!/z x 5 black and white glossy. We would prefer that you contact the studio that the Yearbook is working with: Shafer Studios, 70 N. Brandywine Ave., Schenectady, 372-3560. If you plan to submit a picture from another photographer, put your name lightly in pen on the back of the picture and put it in the Yearbook mailbox in Student Activities. Deadline: January 24. * * * * Applications for the Phi Beta Kappa Symposium on \The Nature of Personality\ are due in the Student Activities Office by Monday, January 20th. Applications can be .picked up at the information desks set up outside of West at 1unch and dinner, in the library 7:30·9:30 pm, and in the Student Activities Office. * * * * There will be an important meeting for those )>eople wishing to join the WR UC news staff on Thursday the 16th at 4:30 in the WRUC studios. * * * * Tu B'Shev!:lt, the Jewish Arbor day, wiJI be on January 27, this year. in honor of this holiday, Hillel is selling trees, which will be planted in one of the Jewish National Fund's national forests, in IsraeL The trees can be purchased from anyone on the Hillel board, and can be dedicated to anyone you wish. Hillel representatives will be vi&iti!lg you soon, sellilig the trees. For f11rther information on trees, eall David' Weinstein, 372-9759. * * * * The Union College Social Committee presents SKYt: and You with Tom Damphier in concert this Saturday night, January 28 in the Memorial Chapel. All seats $1.00, You better be there! * * * * The Union College Ski Team pres~nts two ski movies. Ski The Outer Limits and Crested Butte at 7:30, Thursday the 16th. Donation 25 cents. * * * * Interested in making a mo~ie? There will be a meeting to organize a new film workshop, Thursday, Jan. 23 at 8:00 in the Social Science Lounge. . . Any pers()ns willing to write one or more COBOL Bozos on Bridge A Killing Defense BY JOHN DESROCHERS AND SLEEZE The Student-Faculty Bridge Club meets again January Us! in the Hale House upsta,irs 'lounge at 7:45. We~re looking forward to seeing some new faces· in addition to the usual gang of fanatics. We're looking for another record turnout, so if you know how to , . play, come up and satisfy your bridge cravings before the term's work starts piling up. TO(;I;iy's hand, although not taken from a Bridge Club Game, · was played in a home game and WiST\ • 10 6.3 ~ A92 0 AKQ 16· • 986 NORTH l . • KQ !d 87:5 ~I 8742 • AKJ5 shows how alert defenders can $0UTH(D) upset a seemingly ironclad contract. • AJ7: Through ngrmal bidding,. <0 KQJ6J South ends up at four hearts. West makes his normal lead of ~- 93 iABT' .. 98.542.: ~ lO 4 .b J·65 ·~ 7).2 ,; the diamond King which holds 4- Q 1 0 4 the trick. The Qd takes .trick two 1 ...,._,__ ....... _____ ,..__ 1 _~---------------------..,_J and the Ad. contin.uation is ruffed . \' by declarer. South then leads the trump king which' is won by WesCs ace for the.defense's third trick. Where is West to find the setting trick? He could lead clubs to set up partner's hoped-for Queen; himself without any help from West ifhehf!,s it. West's best chance is in the diamond suit, and he proceeds accordingly by leading his IOd. Unfortunately, bridge is a partnership game, and success for the defense depends A phone call. A siniple, ten-cent phone call for a cab could save your fviend's life. If your friend has been drinkingtoo'much, he shouldn't be driving. The ·automobile crash is the h1umtbeJ:onecsmse of death of people your age. And the ironic thing is · on an astute East. The ten is the highest outstanding diamond;. morever, South trumped the last diamond lead ·and will surely do so this time. Nevertheless, East should play his IOh! This play doesn't do East any good, but it mig'ltt drive out a high trump from South and promote West's trump hgJding, as indeed it doesl With the play of South's trump jack, West's. 9h is promoted to a sure winner. East's play of the trump 10 is called an \uppercut and delivers the knockout blow· to declarer's otherwise impregnable contract. that tbe drun_!<; drivers responsible for killing young people are most o\ftencther young people. ~~g~~~ 4 ~n;ER, ;EFT~;-- mOo t I ROCKViLLE, MARYLAND 20852 I I wan~ to .save a friend's life. Take a Ininute. Spend a dime. Call a cab. That's ~til. If you can't do that, drive hitn yourself. Or let him sleep on your couch. We're not asking you to be a doctor or a cop. Just a friend. 1 Tell .me what else I can do. I My name is,·_·--------- 1 Address I LCiiy __ .... _State _ __;. Zip_ . :J •YOUnl~ HtcHWAY,SAFt.Tv AU\IfSORV r;:'OMMrrrJ::I!;. . YOU Ln A FRIEND DRIVE DRUNK, YOU'RE NO FRIEND. programs for the Union College Course Evaluation should Service on Union College Campus see contact Robin Waring, 372-1449 as soon as .possible. Thank Alan Stern in J 13 Davidson or call 370- you. * * * * 6591. * \' * *j Students interested ·in planning the Orientation program . . . for transfers ahould apply for this committee by completing The 411 Umon St. Peonies Expenment the applications which are available at the Student Activities looking for. skill~d volu~t~~rs to Office. They shmtld be returned to the office by Friday, Jan. workshops m vanous actiVItte~ such 25 s- * * * * theatre, dance. .If you are interested Attention! Anyone interested in joining the Ad Hoc 411 Union Street or call 374..;8822 committee set up forthe purpose of investigating Saga Food ask for Ed Boianj • ( r r I

.< CONCORD/ENS!S, Wednesd'~y, January 15, 1975 Rage 11 I can't tell you how thrilled I am to be back at Union... I come today :to accept this position at Union with great pride ... ln doing so ,r return to my greatest I ove college hockey. I've <levoted a coach at Union for over twel 'Ve years. When l was a tittle boy, I used to stay out on the slopes here, with my brother and used to watch the teams play. And of course my hr0ther went to Union and \I can't tell you how thrilled I am to be back at Union ... \ 4u_arter century of my life to the coaching of college hockey, and this means a great continuation and a great love coming back. Union College has already played a very important role in my life. My dad was a lacrosseand hockey played lacross and hockey here .. J have a great love for Union CoHege. Uniop College as far as l'fu concerned, is the type of school I want to be in. J've always been associated with schools that have great academic backgrounds and· never have I thought that athletics should go beyond their realm of what they're supposed to do; to devel.op good sportsmanshi·p and good citizenship. Nor snoald any coHege he p·ut on the spot to lower its requirements academically to l.Jri ng an athlete in. I still think that with those frameW'otks, you. can still develop an exceBent program. I leave the Detroit Redwings with great regret. I never worked for a better person than Bruce Norris, a better boss and a better friend. ~ut I believe I've l'tad enough of the daily pressures of ticket :;calping, the high prices of salaries, the f;:tet ~hat yo~ don't coatrol your destiny, lose .that at Union, whi~h mea_ns you can't do the naturally ... but I want things you\'d like to do, and so everyone in the school consequently this is the reason partic.ipating •.. The Achilles wny I want to go back into facility is going to see the college coaching. This is where · greatest facility on campus. my ha:pp1ness is. , It's going to be used ... The rink is going to be continuously. With all Union's \The rink is going to be used to develop a program ,for the entire campus ... \ used to develop a program for the entire campus, not just to develop the best hockey team in the country. I have a great reputation and probably as tnany say the greatest college coaching record of anyone that ever lived. I intend not to programs put together, you attract so many, many fine students - they don't have .to be hockey players, but they're going 'to be good students. I'm just proud to serve Dr. Bonner and Union College. Grapplers Optimistic as Season Opens Hoopsters Deserve· Better Foes .1 his year's edition of the Uhion Walker, Howie Mastroianni and College wrestling team l,ooks like Frankie Giamart-ino continue to a very promising one. Only two he impressive in their weight wrestlers are missing from last classes. Larry Dagostino is the year's varsity roster, Mark Zullo strongest wrestler p.ound~for­ \';·ho graduated and junior Scott pound on the team and has an Media. who decided to take a excellent pin record. Mike year off. Coach Gale K..null feels Paquette and Bill ·McClintock that if they do not experience any retllrn in the middle weights as injuries that this year's team will does Greg Lyons at 190 ibs. An he outstanding. are looking to improve on their • Leading the way this year will pre'Vious years' record. Freshmen be co-captains Bruce Freeman Josh Salzman, Robin Bennett and and Tom Everett. Bruce at 126 Jim Sutton join the Dutchmen has been the most dependable and contingent this year.. AH had steady wrestler over t.he past four . outstanding high school records. grappling campaigns. He The te~m rras II home m~tches combines the right combination and only three away meets. Home of s,peed,- strength and.-:, finesse. rt1eets are ·held in- the Alumni Tommy will be seeking national Gy111.- The ~irst th~e~ ~re: Jan. 15 honors this year on tlte strength at 2:()0 against Wdhams, Jan. 18 of an outstanding I 0-l slate last vs; St. Lawrence, Potsdam and vear. Albany State at I :00 and Jan. 22 · Much is expected of \vets\ in vs. Springfield_ Dartrnouth and the lightweight classes. Ray Cent. Conn. ::htrting at 3 pm. Knull Revampslntramurals A new era i11 intram·ural athletics has been launched with the designation of Gale Knull·as Intramural Director. Tne idea hehind the move is to up.grade <lUr presently sporadic intramural program through better organization and better student input. Coach Knul! emphasized that he wants t<> hear from st'udents: com plaints, suggestions or advice. He hopes .to establish a .. two way street\ operation. The goal is to have something for everyone and everyone in something. This ittcltides faculty and staff as well as students .. same day from 7:00 tQ 8:30 will 'be a course in the ·elements of Karate. Class size will be limited to about 20; see 0'lach Knull in the gym to sign up. Information regarding intrarriurals will be be readily available on the Intramural Bulletin Board on the s-outh wall of Alumni Gym. Coach Knull is very optimistic a:bout prospects for the I ntram ural Program. Fifty-five teams have registered for the men's basketball league. There are 21 men's and l2 women's volleyball teams as well. Three faculty teams are included in this list representing 32 _faculty members. \See you on the court Prof, you /'? 1'!?*#. rm psyched!'' Continued fr():m Page 12 \Union only wins because of its weak schedule.\ A.nd how can we dismiss it'! · A step in the right direction was taken this year with the replacement of weak Coast Guard with powerful Post. And Albany State, always tougb, has been scheduled for neKt year. But teams like Clar~. Drew and Kings Point must be weecied out if we want to acquire state-wide acceptance. NESCA( still nags And there's something else. No matter how many times it's been said, the New England Small College Athletic Conference has been a tough burden on Union's hoop program. It has .prevented at least three·bids to the NCAA post-season tourll.arnent, and looks .like it will .prevent another. Not only can there be no visions .of tourney-time in Union's dreams, because of t'he N ESCAC ·rules, but there aren't even any standings kept in the league, itself. iF or instance, last seaso_n, Union was unbeaten ( 8-9) in games against NESCAC opponents but won no title, and . was furthermore barred from competing in the NCA.A tourney, in which Hartwic I\, beaten by Union 56-51, placed second to Morga-n State in this region. 1'-'ESCAC remains an \athletic conference'\ in name only. 9UTCHMEN J)RI61JLINGS ...... Keys to early wins: Denio hob bled off bencn to team with Mody on key final minutes steals, forcing Hartwick into overtime. Union had trailed by over ten points in end-game. Kelly buckets and clutch steal by Meola preserved big viin.... Sparringly used Clete McLaughlin i\lung in· In this vein, two Karate classes will he offered this winter by Jay King of A.O.C. On Sundays from 4:30· to 6:00 will l>e self defense, primi!.rily for women. On the ~~··-~~ .. J¥ ... , .... ~.~ ..... ---. Harkness Continued from Pa~e I providing a full prqgram of intramural and recreational use for ·the 9ampus. '-Viii be the most important part of.Mr. Harkness' position. Prof. Thqtnas Kershner, Chairman of -the Athletic Committee, was delighted with 1-1 ark ness; feeling that the acquisition of an extremely talented manager who could also handle coaching duties was a real plus. President ~onner stated that despite his previolls high~payi ng . position. Harkness will receive a salary compatable to other Athletic Department personnel I he rink. which is scheduled I ot completion boy late fall, will tn.Ci ude a full-scale hockey ritt k w.tth spectator seating for about 2.500, plus four curlihg sheets. SPORTS SHORTS RAFFLE TIME: Hoping to raise money to finance a trip to John Carral University in Cleveland for the NCAA Divisio.n I II championships, the wrestling team is raffling off a·lo-speed English bike and sixty dollars worth of alcoholic beverages. The drawing will he held Feb. 12 during the Colgate home match. Feel lucky today? SUPPORT WOMEN'S ATHLETICS: Ouring all h()me basketball games this season there will be bake sales for the support of women athletic teams at Union. The Brownies are outstanding. You can't watch our hoop team on an empty stomach anyhow. CANCELED SPORTS RETURN: Despite frantic lobbying by arch rivals U.C.L.A. Trinity, Stanford and U.S.C. t:he powers that be have seen fit to reinstate the gol( and tennis for this spring. , HOCKEY NOTES: All practices and home games are at Frear Park, Troy, N.Y. See Don'Ward or Dave Sanderson .for answers to any queries. First game versus Hamilton J.V.'s is January 24th at Hamilton, 6:00 pm. WOMEN'S B-BALL: The women's varsity basketball season gets underway on Thursday, Jan. 16 at 7:00 pili. The host Albany Med on the tartan surface of Memorial Fieldhouse. Plawrs o.f Bill Carmody's f,(lliber -don't show up on Union's schedule ~[ten enouf{h to provide the team the. competition and recognition they deserve: neede<i corner shots and drive, and with strong second half by Mody enabled Union to push back stttbborn WPI.. .. Siena game was top effort by all, and Gugliotta's best game ever. Charlie ate up Siena's highly touted Gary H 6lle, in gaining MVP honors for Christmas tou rpame nt. Denio-Carm od y hackcourt tandem named with Gugli0tta to all-tourney team. Kelly and Fish played just as tuff.. •. Area media and fans walked away impressed with U -n i on . W R G 8' s B o b MacNamara called team's disciplined play, \a pleasure to watch,\ and Scanlon \a major college coach.\ .... Letter in Sunday's Albany Times Union praised John Denio for \playing his guts out,\ and accepting \the hardest of defeats with dignity and grace.\ It was from a Siena rooter .... Paul Riescheck, Union's hoop manager 1970-74 just named General Manager of Visalia Mets: Single A minor league team of New York Mets .... Saturday night's game at Williams will be that much harder due to Ephmen's band-box gymnasium; be there! WINTER INTRAMURAL & RECREATION Open to all faculty, staff, and students unless specified. Sat. Jan. 11, Handball Tournament - ll :00 sign-up at Gym. ~.ingle Elimination Mon .. Jan. 13, Men's Intramural B. B. and V. B. begins; Deadline for Women's Volleyball Rosters. Tues. Jan. 14 Wrestling Practice for Wrestling Tournament - 7:0() Sign-up deadline for Wrestling Tournament , .. Thurs. Jan. 16 Wrestling Tournament ~ 7:30 pm Wt. Classes: 125,137,150,162, l7S, 1'90, 190+ Sun. Jan. 19 Foul Shooting Contest 11:00 - Alumni Gym Tues. Jan. 21 Women's Volleyball begins. Sat. Jan. 25 Paddleball Tournament 11:00 Single Elimination Sun. Jan. 26 Paddleball Tournament II :00 Single Elimination- Mixed ·Doubles Sat. Feb. I Platform Tennis Tournament - 11:00 - Doubles - Single Elimination Fri. Feb. 7 Deadline for Mixed Doubles Badminton Sat. Feb. 8 Weight Lifting Contest - Alumni GyQl - 3:30 under 15{), 150-175, 175-199, 199+ T:llurs. Feb. 13 Boxing Tournament (if interest is expressed to Coach KnuU by Feb. l.) under 150, 150-174, 175~199, .200t- Fri. Feb. 14 Mixed Doubles Badminton 7:00 Sllll. Feb; 16 Lacrosse Shooting Contest, Fieldhouse, 1:00 San. Feb. 23 Snow Winter Olympics (no snow date - March 2)

·, Page 12 CONCORD1ENSIS, Wednesday, January 15. 1975 Kelfv cans carom.. Basketball at 6-1 The Dutchmen of Union College ran their .season record to 6--1 with a resounding l 04-73 trouJlcing of an undermanned Clark University quintet. Exhibiting a harassing defense as is. their trademark, the starting unit mn up an 18-2 lead and the The only blemish on tne uarnet record to date was a heartbreaking one point loss to Siena in the finals of the Capital District Christmas tourney. Union played flawlessly for 38\l:z minutes but faltered in the end missing three one and one NEW YORK STATE COLLEGE DIVISION BASKETBALL POLL Big Wins Top Five !.*'Siena (8-2) ... 2. C.W. Post (10-2) Union, St. Michael's, Bridgeport, Merrimack Hartwick, Brockport, Bridgeport Losses U Mass. Morgan State, Bentley 3. UNION(6-l) ... Hartwick (O.T.) Siena, by one in Capital District T ourn. 4. Brockport (8-2) 5.*'f!artwick (8-2) Morgan State! Hartwick, CW Post Brockport, Albany State Union and CW Post St. Mike's by 30! *Siena plays at Hartwick Tuesday night. outcome was never m doubt. Leading the way once again was the hustle and savvey of guards Bill Carmody and John Denio. Denio finished with a game high 18 points as the reserves played a great deal and a quitted themselves equitably. Frosh 93·52 The frosh hoopsters made an auspicious home debut on Monday crushing the Clark Uni¥ersity, J.V.'s 93-52. Dominating from the opening tip- off, the Garnet yearlings seFved notice that they will be reckoned with throughout the year. Tom Casey led the way again as he did in their opening win over HartWick. Double figure scorers were Casey with 22, Tom Flynn with 12 while Greg Sobocinski and Mike Smith chipped in 10 apiece. Everyone of the squad saw extensive action and all got into the scoring act. Niskayuna product Chuck Assini set up several basket with some pretty assists. Coach Rogers was sa.tisfied with the teams performance but wants to see improvement in their defense. 1 neu next start is Wednesday at 6:00 against Amherst. Amherst defeated the freshmen in a thriller last :year. Come out early and see what the future holds. sttuations. In the opening round, after a .sl.Uggish first half, Union defeated arch rival R.P.L to set up the next nights exciting finale. Carmody, Denio and Charlie Gu,gliotta all earned aU tourney team honors. In addition, Charlie was selected as the tourney M.V.P. as he dominated the center position in clearly outdueling Siena's highly touted Gary Holle. In a prelude to The Christmas tourney action, the Garnet five defeated a scrappy W.P.I. team in Worcester on Dec. 17. Once again it wasn't until the second half till the Dutchmen machine got untracted. Trailing 33-27 at halftime, Union applied a suffocating defense and receiv.ed an offensive spark from sophomore \Cannon Clete\ McLaughlin to record a 64-53 decision. Looming on the horizon for the Scanlon coached five are highly touted Amherst, 27•point victors over W.P.I., anrl the Harry Shehey led Williams Ephmen. Amherst visits Memorial Fieldhouse on. Wednesday before the Jirst away game of. wint'er term on Saturday tn the \Williams Oen\. lhe freshmen play in preliminary contests on both nights starting at six o'clock. Soccer Stars Honored Union College varsity socceF coach Bob Magee has announced tbat junior forwards Craig Jeffries and John Denio and senior back Olaf Neilsen have been named to the 1974 All New York State Soccer T earn. It is the second year in a row t.f:lat Jeffries, has been honored with a spot on the AU State squad, this year making the second team. He led the 10:.2 Dutchmen in scoring for the. second season in a row, netting a single season record of 13 goals and now owns the Union career record with 28 goals. Junior J olm Denio, makes his first ·appearance on the 55 man squad as a second honorable mention pick. Denio was once again Union's second leading scorer during the regular season,' this time with 11 goals, Together with Jeffries, he helped form a powerful combination that outscored the opposiHon 24 goals to 15 enroute to the finals of the ECAC U.pstate New York Regional Soccer Tournament. Senior tri-captain Olaf Neilsen, was a third honorable mention pick, at back. Neilsen has been a starter for Union since. his freshman year and this season sparked the Dutchmen defense as they tied tW!) .regular season records, least number of. goals given up (l4) and most shutouts (2). Selections to the All State team are made through a voting procedure after each played , contest tnroughotit the season by the coaches of the ;participating teams, Union was one of only six schools which placed three or more players on the select squad. There were 65 participating colleges and universities during the 1974 season. Schedule, NESCAC by MARK MINDEL Is Uni.on's basketball team too big for its britches? After breezing past Clark, 104:..73, Monday night, the Dutchmen's record of 6-1 . shows back-to-hack home court run-a-ways (Clark and Drew.) The one -loss - one of the toughest in Union's history - was to powerful Siena, wh0se schedule brings Man·hattan to the area this Saturday night. In the recently released ·New York State College Division Basketball Poll, Union ranked third to Siena and upcoming foe C. W, Post, and ahead of Brockport and Hartwick. That's pretty good company. Our claim to the top was made by playing the other top teams, and showing everyone we are just as good. How much longer can we play teams like Clark and Drew? Union's ·victory over previously top-ranked Hartwick in early December and our one-point loss to Siena, a game we led for all but five seconds, and by as much as. II points with under four minutes Holding Hoops Back to go, showed we can mix it with the best. Union cmtld be the .best small college team in the State, but how can. we prove it? Are once-a- ri1onth games against Hartwick, Siena, and Post enough to test the true ability of a backcourt with the quic,k.ness of Carmody and Denio, a frontcourt With the rebounding and shooti-ng touch of Gugliotta, Kelly and Fi~her, and & gutSY. 'bench like ottrS, not to mention a coach the caliber of Scanlon? As a former Siena ballplayer .said after watching Moaday night's rout, \When a good team and a poor team meet, they both look bad.\ · This isn't to say we don't play . .good teams- (away :contests, with Williams, this Saturday, Tufts, 7 and Post, Feb. 1.5, and a home skirmish against University of Rochester January 29 will provide stern tests);' just not enough for a team with our talents. The tag hung on Union these past four seasons has 'been, Continued on Page 11 Gutdiotta. tourneY'.· MVP, ~ets two. Libel' perso1 -11'-1 - ·- Sc cutll vali' ' . ma11 opti has. seve T prol The pure has, tQta dec1 shO' -- 19 19 19 19 in 1 the mo: 1 for thl apJ the dol a pu ap] inc

Libel (li~ -bel)ll •. defaml)tl4)n of a ; person h1 milinll or printing. · - II' -bel•oli5o; adj, · · Vol. 104, No. 11 usous les lois deMinerve,_ Nous devenons tousfreres.\ W.ednesday, January 22~ 1975 Libel (lr-bel)n. defamation of a persQn jn writing or printing. - li'-bel-ous, adj. 35 cents Library Under Bonner On Athletics , Financial Strain Schaffer Library; due to budget cutbacks, rising inflation, and vatidaJism, is having a nard .time maintaining the library up to optimum standards. The situation has apparently been going on for several years. The library's first major problem is an insufficient budget. · The bm:lget allocation for the purchase of books and .periodicals has, for the past four years, in tQtal and : real dollars been decreasing, The following ta.ble shows the college's appropriations 1974-7 5 to $117,700, an increase of $7,300, this amount is only half the increase needed in m:der to just remain even with the previous. year's real purchasing power. The obvious result of this is that the · . library will have to cut back on its purchases of books as well as to the number of periodicals to which it subscribes. · :Bowdoin College prepared a ' chart comparing the libraries of 39 colleges that are relatively the same si~e as Union. Union is , (' ontinued on 'Page 4 Library Budget for Books, Periodicals and Binding 1968-69 1969-70 1970-71 1971-72 for the Years 1968·1975 . $ 90;,000 1972 .. 73_ - - $ 0 i88,000 $105,000 1973.;74 $110,400 $124,000 1974-75 $117' 700 $ 98.000 . - \We a ran '·t discriminating for .athletes.,.\ in the• capital budget which,- for the libraty, consists mainly of monies for books and periodicals. The Story of Tenu:r~l The total dollars appropriated for 1974-75. h~s not yet reached the 1970-71 level of appropriations. The decrease in the budget is larger than the dollar figure indicates because of a 13% rate of inflation in the publishing industry. Though it appears that the budget has increased for the current year .of REMINDER Financial Aid Application forms are available NOW at the Student Aid .. Office. ALL students, including those who are presently on aid, must file the Financial Aid·Applicafion jn order to be considered for aid. All . applications for financial ai$1 for the 1975-76 academic year MUST be file_d with the College Scholarship Service by March 1,- 1975. by JACK PITNEY Job. security. Professional title. Income: There are crucial concerns tor professional .people .because t,hey help determine the quality of the.ir lives.. For members .of the U nibn College faculty, such matters are settled by the Committee on Salaries, Promotions and Tenun: (SPT). ·1,-be committee consists of'four tenured and two untenured faculty members, the ne.an of Faculty and three students. Though the students participate in general discussions about judgment criteria, they do not take part in decisions about individual cases. Tenure . Procedure The committee's most controversial function is recommending tenure. The process is -tar more complex thctn most people think. It begins with the selection of a four-n1ember ad hB~ committee to delve into the oandjdate~s background.\' The offici~! Charge to the ad hoc committee advises its members that though there are no rigid formulae for judgment, they shoula consider the \quality of the candidate's teaching and scholmship and his non-academic service to the College.\ Furthermore. though the candidate ·does not have to be outstan<ling in all categories, he \must be at least outstanding in one of the first two, superior in the other and genuinely above average overal I.\ To judge the candidate's teaching ability, the ad hoc committee interviews many of his students and colleagues. His evaluation in student polls is also \judiciously considered.\ To get a measure of his intellectual work, the members study the candidate's scholarly writing, both published and unpublished. Unless an article or a book has been printed by a publication requiring referees' reports, the writing is also sent out for evaluation by outside experts in the field. P!iblish or Perish? Does the doctrine of \publish or perish\ exist at Union'! According to SPT chairman Professor Willard Roth, any such charge is \at very best, an egregious oversimplilication. H we are going to indulge in such oversimplification, it would be more valid to say 'teach well or perish'.\ Nevertheless. Roth is Continued on Page 5 Latest on the Pub-Restaurant pnoto by ureg tohen Cralg Carlson show~ plans for proposed .facility. IJy -ALISON JAMESON Tbe proposed Pub-Restaurant Facility for the colle~ center looks ~·very favorable\ according to Mr. Craig Carlson, Assistant Director of Admissions. He is in charge ef developing the college center and a major portion bf his time has gone into the planning of the eating facility. Working With Mr. Carlson are the two student trustees: GebffTaylor and Bruce Sostek; as well as a number of other people. When Craig Carlson was a stude11t at Union (he graduated with the Class of 1970) there was no. such thing as a college center. lhis was still the case when he bccatne employed in the Admissiohs Office in Sep~ember. 1973. Because his job entailed interviewing prospective students. Mr. Carlson had only sporadic contact with Union students. Wishing to become involved. he expressed an interest in the college center when the idea for locating a central mailroom there was first proposed. Dean Mark Smith became aware of his interest and asked him if he would lil<e to be in charge of its development. Mr. Carlson felt that there was a desire as well as a need for this kind of facility. Bruce Sostek and Geoff Taylor agreed, and to get some indication of this they mailed questionnaires to all the students during the Christmas recess. The ·response indicated definite interest for the idea of a Pub-Restaurant, as dtd the responses to the questionnaires distributed at registration. I he philosophy behind the development M a college center is that there is a need for centers of human contact at Union. Mr. Carlson feels that fraternities do <\<mtinued on Page 3 Interview With Tbe President In response to .student concern over the recent athletic changes, Concordiensis inte-rviewed President Bonner in his office on Monday, Jan. 20. The interview is presented below: We're i11terested in the ramifications of increased athletic programs on other parts of the college, particularly financial aid. W ou)d you comment on what effects an increased athletic program, with some degree of recrl}iting, will have on the financial aid budget, particularly in view of the CSS guideline changes.? I he answer is, so far as the athletic program. there has been a policy toward financial aid, and that basic policy is set by the conference. We aren't discriminating for athletes, or giving on a basis other than need. On the other question of the impact of the CSS, that's still very uncertain. Union, as you know. has been very much involved in the effort to clarify and get some guidelines with respect to the application of the CSSguidelines. Very few institutions are able to meet the full financial need as defined by these new guidelines, because they call for very heavy Increases il). the amount of financial aid available to particularly the middle and upper middle income families. On the other hand, the Ivy League and related schools are now <]pting for v. hat is a modification of the CSS thing. which would increase the lamily maintenance allowance. In our case. we've added in the hudget lor 1975-76 $1 25.000 to the financial aid budget which. when added to state and federal I unds, will really result in an increase of $250.000 in our total linancial aid budget. In view of the publicity concerning the rink paying for itself, what basis do you have in comparison with other schools' experience with similar facilities? Continued~ on Page 10 Eban Cancels Abba Eban's scheduled appearance at Union Coliege-has been cancelled. The former Israeli Minister of Foreign Affairs was to speak at Union on Monday, Jan. 27. Eban. who has been lecturing throughout the U.S. has returned to Israel because of the current Middle East situati oh, according to his lecture tour agent. At this time, his speech has not been re-scheduled. SENIORS lime to order graduation announcements- place your order with Mrs. Mal'ra in the Student Activities Office.

·Page 2 ' '.:. t ~ t. -· \ -· ! CONCORDJENSIS, 'Wednesday, January 22, 1975 Edit{)rs-in-chief .......... : ........ : ........ ,Cbris. O'Connor Rob Mondschein Culture Editor ........................... ; .......... Peter ~ o'bol Features Editor ....... , .......................... John Scheer . Sports Editors .............................. Kev:in Crawford Bill U nderhilt Photo Editors ............................ , .... Arthur_ Miller Ellen Radack Danny McMa!lamon Graphic Arts Edit()r ................. : ........ Bob Johnson Managing Editor .......................... Doug Carpenter C<_mtributing Editors ....................... ~ ....... Judy Dein ·Historical Editor ...................................... Bill Talis Business Manager ............................. Jennifer Port N_ational Advertising. '\\\•···· ............... Steve Kelly Subscriptions Editor .............................. Lisa Tieiz Joanne Laufer Staff: Janet Chapman, Lee Schwartz, Rick Ford, Bill Plaus, Sam Hughes, Susan Scheinhaqs,.llene Binder CONCORDIENSIS is published every Wednesday by tlae-. tudent body of Union College, Old Gym l{all, Schenectady, N.Y. ublications Office: The Jewish World P11bllcations, 771 State St., chenectady:, N.Y. 11307 (34(;..2356). Entered in the Schenectady ost Office as Second Cl-.ss Matter. Subscription Rate 35 cents per opy. 58.00 a year delivered anywhere in the United States. . . dead e.nd Last week, Concordiensis promised to run a story this week detailing the events surrounding the resignation as Chairman of the English Department of Professor Frank Gado. None of the principals of the situation cared to make any comments suitable for publication.- The ()nly publishable remark we received was the statement of the Administration's position, issued by the Provost: \Prof Gado resigned as a result of being overruled on a recommendation regarding the tenurability of a faculty member and senior members of the English department asked Prof Gado to rec()nsider, but he felt compelled to take the action- he did.\ If there is more to the story, Concordiensis has been unable to discover it. Concordy will make: public all information that it can obtain as that information becomes available. board vot·es The Board of Trustees voted last Wednesday to: \authorize the Director of Physical Plant to engage an architect to prepare design specifications for the Restaurant( Pub in the college center.\ The vote was unanimous. Concordiensis welcomes · this expression of interest in the further development of the student center, and hopes that a real student center is now--on the way. you sclicl ·it stineback Editors, Concordiensis, I find it difficult to accept the fact that an institution such as Union College, which supposedly prides itself on high academic scholarship, pow threatens to· dismiss a very valuable and well- respected faculty member. I am referring, to the decision not to give tenure to Prof. David Stineback of the English department. As an English major, and a student who has taken three comses thus far with Prof. Stineback, I am especially shocked and outraged at the unnecessary an'd Irreplaceable . loss of such a qualified teacher. During my four~year stay at Union College I have been overwhelmingly convinced that this educational institution dearly goes not suffer from a surplus of excellent professors. To allow a scholar as qualified as Prof. Stineback to be released is not only an injustice to the man himself, but a denial of the ethic which Union so highly regards, namely, quality education. Prof. Stineback, unlike too many other professors at Union, is naf content to wrap himself in intellectual verbosity Which ultimately results in the stifling of student-teacher communication. When a student leaves Stineback's class he takes pride .in the fact that he has been given the opportunity to express his thoughts without inhibition, regardless of whether the Professor agrees or disagrees with his statements or opinions. Stinehack's Iectur:es are as intellectually enlightening as the discus'sions and deb1t.tes which distinguish his classes from those taught by others. Let those on the ·Cornmittees in charge sit in on one of Prof. Stineback's classes, see how long they can just sit there without getting invol·ved in the discussion or be intrigued by the lecture and then let them dotheirevaluating. I believe then they will realize . what a terrible mistake they ate making in denying tenure to Prof. David Stinehack. Dennis Burstein '75 f.reaks? To the Editor, l have just returned from the movie \Freaks\ that was shown by the Union film committee on Tuesday, January 14. Surprisingly ~enough,, I was not disgusted with the movie itself (as I was told I would be) but rather with its audience. To explain; let me briefly sum-up the movie's plot. The movie was conceived because there was a need to show how badly men and women with birth defects (labeled freaks) were treated by society. The movie did - this by presenting the setting of a circus, equipped with people who were born normally amJ those who were born with birth defects. Essentially, the plot centered around . how certain \normal'' people made fun of those with defects. In the end, the \freaks\ g~t t~~ir .re_v.enge by turning these condescending, supposedly normal people into freaks themselves. The thin and broomes re.but ' The Senate will be voting 011 by JEFF BROOMES the grading system at its next The All-College Senate is · meeting, Feb. 13th. In an effort to reviewing both the calendar and assess student sentiment we, the the grading systems. A committee Student Senators and Steering with Dean Smith as chairman has Committee members, are asking been created to explore all all R.A.'s to call floor meetings at possible alternatives for a which we can discuss_ the grade calenc;far .change. change proposal. Please be there ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Q~~~ ~ ORIENT A TION '75 ~ - to voice your opinion. We cannot adequately represent you unless :we know what you want. There is a rumor going around campus that the Steering Committee thinks there is a lack of communication among the many sectors of the school. The rumgr also says that in an effort to increase this communication we are planning- to have a computer dance. We will now like to end this rumor and say that it is aU true. Most of you who read Concordy have seen the article about the \Secret Meetings\. Two tec-hnically poor plot is not to be discqssed here because amid all its f1aws, it makes its point quite well. What is. to be discussed is the audience reaction. This movie was made as a form of social criticism, but was taken by mote than half of the audience as a frea·k show, the very thing the rnovie was condemning; The audience was actually playing the part of the \normal\ people in the movie who made .fun of the \frea by laughing at the \freaks\ themselves. They were showing the reason why it was necessarv to defend people born with. defects in a film. I was disgusted that people could show such little compassion towards their fellow men. As well as reminding me that people with birth defects are .to always be treated as human beings, the movie \Freaks\ left me with an unanswered q.uestion. · Who are the real freaks'? Is the real freak the man who no arms or legs that must slither on his stomach to move, or is it the fool in the third row of a movie house who laughs at him as he tries to light a cigarette? Bill Pike .lucy Editors, Concof<diensis, Lucy .and Viv are ttuly to be pitied: · shallow intellectually, myopic cultqrally, · provincial gastronomically, naive socially and racist to boot, they spent a weekend in Paris - of all places - toying with toilet lights and taking the metro around the corner. Really, why bore your readers with such simple-minded simpering'! Paul teCierc , Associate Professor of French ·• VIV Editor: In .response to Lucy and Viv's brilliant account of dare I call it \Gai Paris\: Who ever said AMERICANS are UGLY? Jeffrey M. Gleason '16- • aga1n Editors,. Concordiensis: Provincialism breeds and deserves contempt. William W. Thomas Dept. of M<Jdern Languages • 1n reply ~ Applications are available~ ~ now at the Student Activities ~ ~.Office for Orientation '7S; tl ~ALL students who are~ . ~ interested in planning the ~ ~program .should apply •. ~ ~ Positions. to be filled are. for ~ ~two assistant co-chairmen, and.S 1;3 programs concerning student• ~ S faculty~ commuters, soci!l) ~ S activities~ transfers and~ 1;3 refreshments. Appfic.ations .~ S m mt be retur..,ed to the ~ ~Student Activities Office by~ 8 Friday, January 24. Any ~ 1>1. questions, contad Harriet ~ S Kaplan (370-6481) or Bill Talis~ tl (346-9688). ~ days before every· Steering Editors, Conc<Jrdiensis: ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Nader associate to speak Committee meeting •we all get The article \The Last Time I together for agenda meetings. In Saw Paris .. -·~ was in no way our last agenda meeting we also intended to be a criticism of the wanted ·to evaluate our Term Abroad Program in France performance in office and decided ?r criticism of Fre~ch society. to close the meeting. We felt we· fhe program Itself 1s very. well had made some mistakes, and we organized and proves to be a very. wanted to discuss them privately. worthwhile learning experience It was rather surprising t.o see for those students who choose to Concordy blow the situation so go. Individuals, hoWever, perceive far out of ·proportion. It was also specific situations in different upsetting that the editors said that ways; different experiences I told them it was a gathering of happen to different individuals. friends when no such words were The article merely stated a strange said by me. We, in the Steering serie.s of events tha~ happ~ned to Committee, have no objections to two people and their reactiOns to criticism from Concordien!iis, but them during a weekend trip to we would hope that they would Paris.. With some minor honestly report the facts. modifications, the events rel~ted Dohald Ross, a long time associate of Consumer advocate Ralph Nader, and presently director of the New York State Public Interest Research Group, will speak at Union at 8:30 P.M.: Monday Jan. 27 in Strauss Lounge. Mr. Ross, during the past three years, was instrumental in establishing Public Interest Legislator's Profiles recently released by N.Y.P.LR.G., a study which produced a 10-15 .page information booklet on 191 N.Y. · State legislators. The project which took 200 college students and members of the P.l.R.G. staff 9 months to complete has been proclaimed to be the most comprehensive project of its kind concerning those persons that Groups in sixteen states induding · govern New York State. N·ew York. His rec:ent N.Y. Public Interest Group is achievements include co- both studePJt funded and student ordinating the massive N.Y. State · governed. Presently. tel! ... £o!Ieges and universities through out the state are membe!'s of !\. Y. P. I.R .G. During this period of what might be termed the apathetic or Withdrawal seventies, Don Ross, a person dedicated to proving that students can have an impact, should prove to be dynamic speaker. Mr. Ross would also like to meet briefly after his talk with those students who are willing to work to establish a P.L R.G. organization at Union. .. The next Steering Committee could have taken ._place during a meeting will be Jan. 30th. weekend in New York City! Editors Note: The Editors of The article, therefore, was not Concordiensis wish to make clear meant to criticize the Union that the newhaper article \Secret program, French society, or. the Meetings\ did honestly report the French people. For all of you facts and that au· statements who interpreted it as such, I quoted. in that article were stated apologize. at that meeting. · Marcia Podgorski a/~/ a \Lucy & Viv\ - ' ~ elec tru: po aft to Stl sti trt a ev cu ar Gc tTl su B Ec VC G 0 ol tr th th th

·Page 2 CONCORDJENSIS, Wednesday. January 22, !975 •• Otmtrur.lttrtmts ~ Editors-in-chief. ............................ Chris.O'Counor Rob Mondschein Culture Editor ..................................... Peter ~ obol Features Editor .................................. John Scheer Sports Editors .............................. Kevin Crawford Bill UnderhiH Photo Editors ................................. Arthur Miller Ellen Radack Danny McManamon Graphic Arts Editor. ......................... Bob J~hnson Managing Editor .......................... Doug Carpenter Contributin.g Editors ............................ .Judy Dein Historical Editor ...................................... Bill Talis Business Manager ............................. Jennifer Port National Advertising ......................... Steve KeHy Subscriptions Editor .............................. Lisa Tietz Joanne Laufer Staff: Janet Chapman, Lee Schwartz, Rick Ford, Bill Plaus, Sam Hughes, Susan ScheinhatJS, Ilene Binder CONCORDIENSIS is published every Wednesday by the tudent body of Union College, Old Gym H.all, Schenectady, N.Y. ublications Office: The Jewish World Publications, 771 State St., chenectady, N.Y. 12307 (346-2356). Entered in the Schenectady ost Office as Second Class Matter. Subscription Rate 35 cents per opy. $8.00 a year delivered anywhere in the United States. dead end Last week, Concordiensis promised to run a story this week detailing the events surrounding the resignation as Chairman of the English Department of Professor Frank Gado. None of the principals of the situation cared to make any comments suitable for publication.- The only publishable remark we received was th-e statement of the Administration's position, issued by the Provost: \Prof Gado resigned as a result of being overruled on a recommendation regarding the tenurability of a faculty member and senior members of the English department asked Prof Gado to reconsider, but he felt compelled to take the action he did.\ If there is more to the story, Concordiensis has been unable to discover it. Concordy will make: public all information that it can obtain as that information becomes available. The Board of Trustees voted last Wednesday to: \authorize the Director of Physical Plant to engage an architect to prepare design specifications for the Restaurant/ Pub in the college center.\ The vote was unanimous. Concordiensis welcomes this expression of interest in the further development of the student center, and hopes that a real student center is now-on the way. you said it stineback Editors, CGncordiensis. I ti nd it difficult to accept the !act that an institution sue h as Union College, which supposedly prides itself oFt high academic sch0larship. now threatens to dismiss a very valuable and well- respected faculty member. I am referring. to the decision not to give teHure to Prof. David Stineback of the English department. As an ERglish major, and a student who has taken three courses thus far with Prof. Stincback, I am especially shocked and outraged at the unnecessary and Irreplaceable loss of such a qualified t.eacher. During my four-year stay at Union College I have been overwhelmingly convinced that this educational institution clearly goes not suffer from a surplus of excellent professors. To allow a scholar as qualified as Prof. Stincback to be released is not only an injustice to the man himself, but a denial oft he ethic which Union so highly regards, namely, quality education. Prof. Stineback. unlike too many other professors at Union, is not content to wrap himself in intellectual verbosity which ultimately results in the stifling of student-teacher communication. When a student leaves Stineback's dass he takes pride in the fact that he has been given the opportunity to express his thoughts without inhibition. regardless of whether the Professor agrees or disagrees with his statements or opinions. StiHeback's lectures are as mteHect ually enlightening as tl1e discussions and debates which disting1:1ish his classes from those taught by others. Let those on the committees in charge sit in on one of Prof. Stineback's classes, see how long they can just sit there without getting involved in the discussion or be intrigued by the lecture and then let them do tl1eir evaluating. I hdieve then they will realize . what a terrible mistake they are noaking in denying tenure to Prof. David Stineback. Dennis Burstein '75 freaks? To the Editor, I have just returned from the movie ''Freaks\ that was shown by the Union film committee on Tuesday, January 14. Surprisingly enough, I was not disgusted with the movie itself (as I was told I would be) but rather with its audience. To explain, let me briefly sum-up the movie's plot. !he movie was conceived because there was a need to show how badly men and women with birth defects (labeled freaks) were treated by society. The movie did this by presenting the setting of a circus. equipped with people who were born normallv and those who were born with ·birth defects. Essentially. the plot centered around how certain \normal\ people made fun of those with defects. In the end, the \freaks\ get their revenge by turning these condescending, supposedly normal people into freaks themselves. The thin and broomes rebut by JEFF BROOMES l he Senate will be voting 011 the grading system at its next lhe All-College Senate is· meeting, Feb. 13th.lnaneffortto reviewing both the calendar and assess student sentiment we. the the grading systems. A committee Student Senators and Steering with Dean Smith as chairman has Committee members, are asking been created to explore all all R.A.'s to call floor meetings at possible alternatives for a which we can discuss the grade calendar .change. change proposal. Please be there ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~ ORIENTATION '75 ~ S Applications are available~ ~ now at the Student Activities ~ S Office for Orientation '75, ~ ~ AU. students whQ ~re ~ S interested in planning the § ~ JJrogram should apply.~ ~ Positions to be filled are for ~ ~two assistant co-chairmen, and S f.:! JJrograms concerning sht~ent·l§ S faculty, commuters, social~ I>:! activities, transfers and~ ~ refreshments. Applications ~ ~ mmt be returned to the~ ~Student Adivities Office by~ S Friday, January 24. Any ~ I>:! questions, contad Harriet~ ~Kaplan (370-6481) or Bill Talis~ 1€1 ~346-9688). li.:' rq.., ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ to voice your opinion. We cannot adequately represent you unless -we know what you want. There is a rumor going around campus that the Steering Committee thinks there is a lack of communication among the rri any sectors of the school. The rumor also ~uvs that in an effort to increase this communication we are planning to have a computer dance. We will now like to end this rumor and say that it is all true. Most of you who read Concordy have seen the article about the \Secret Meetings\. Two days before every Steering Com mit tee meeting ·we all get to get her for agenda meetings. In our last agenda meetiRg we also wanted to evaluate our performance in office and decided to close the meeting. We felt we Nader associate to speak had made some mistakes. and we wanted to discuss them privately. It was rat her surprising to see Concordy blow the situation so lar out of proportion. It was also l:lpsctting that the editors said that I told them it was a gathering of lriends \\:hen no such words were 'aid hy me. We. in the Steering l'ommittec. have no objection~ to criticism lrom Concordiensis, hut we would hope that they would honestly report the facts. J)onald Ross. a long time associate ol Consumer advocate Ralph ~ader. and presently director ol the \ew York State l'uhlic Interest Re~carch (iroup. legislator\ Profiles recently released hy \.Y.P.l.R.G .. a study which produced a I 0-15 page Information booklet on llJI \.Y. State legislators. I he project which took 200 college students and members of the P.I.R.Ci. staff 9 months to complete has hecn proclaimed to he the most v.Ill ~peak at Union at X:JO P.M.· Mondav Jan. 27 111 Strauss l.oung~ Mr. Ross, during the past t hrce years, was instrumental m establishing Public Interest comprehensive project of its kind concerning those perwns that (iroups in sixteen states includmg govern New York State. ~cw York. His recent N.Y. Public Interest Group is achievements include co-. both student funded and student ordinating the massive N.Y. State J.!OVernt>cf. Presently ten colleges and universities through out the state arc members of '\..\-.I'.I.R.Ci. I >uri ng this period of what might he termed the apathetic or withdrawal seventies, Don Rms, a person dedicated to proving that students can have an impact. should prove to he dynamic speaker. Mr. Ross would also like to meet briefly after his talk with those students who are willing to Wrlrk to establish a J>.t.R.G. organization at Union. .. I he next Steering Committee rn ceti ng will be Jan. 30th. Editors Note: The Editors of Concordiensis wish to make clear that the newhaper article \Secret Meetings\ did honestly report the !acts and that all statements quoted in that article were stated at that meeting . technically poor plot is IWt to be discussed here hecause amid all its flaws, it makes its point qui,te well. What is to be discussed is the audience reaction. This movie was made as a form of social criticism. but was taken by more than half of the audience as a freak show, the very thing the movie was condemning. The audience was actually playing the part of the \normal\ people in the movie who made fun of the \freaks\ by laughiHg at the \freaks\ themselves. They were showing the reason why it was necessarv to defend people born with defects in a film. I was dis gusted that people could show such li·ttle compassion towards their fellow men. As well as reminding me that people with birth <lefects arc to alwavs be treated as human beings, .the movie \Freaks\ left me with an unanswered question. Who are the real freaks? Is the real freak the man who no arms or legs that must slither on his stomach to move, or is it the fool in the third row of a movie house who laughs at him as he tries to light a cigarette? Bill Pike lucy Editors, Concordiensis.,. Lucy and Viv are truly to be pitied: shallow intellectually, myopic culturally, provincial gastronomically, naive sociallv and racist to boot, they spent a weekend in Paris - of all places toying with toilet lights and taking the metro around the corner. Really. why bore your readers with such simple-minded simpering'? Paul LeClerc Associate Professor of French Ill VIV Editor: In response to Lucy and Viv's brilliant account of dare I call it \'Gai Paris\: Who ever said AMERICANS are UGLY'? Jeffrey M. G Ieason '76 • aga1n Editors, Concordiensis: Provincialism breeds and deserves contempt. William W _ Thomas Dept. of Modern Languages in reply Editors, Concordiensis: The article \The Last I ime I Saw Paris ... \ was in no way intended to be a criticism of the 1 erm Abroad Program in France or criticism of French society. I he program itself is very well organized and proves to be a very worthwhile learning experience lor those students who choose to go. Individuals. however, perceive specific situations in different v.ays: different experiences happen to different individuals. I he article merely stated a strange series of events that happened to two people and their reactions to them during a weekend trip to Paris. With some minor modifications. the events related could have taken place during a weekend in New York City! I he article, therefore, was not meant to criticize the Union program. French society, or the French people. For all of you who interpreted it as such, I apologize. Marcia Podgorski a/k/a \Lucy & Viv\ • ' cit tn p al !< q st ti a e c a ( I I \ ( (





Page4 CONCORDIENS/S, Wednesday, January 22, 1975 Library Budget Continued from Page 1 tanked 9th in size on this list and is ranked 20th on the list in the number of new books it adds to its collection. This is an improvement aver 72/73 and 71/72 when our rank was 25 and 21 respectively. Union's book and periodical ,budget. from 1967 onward is shown in the chart below. The past year of 73;74 shows the largest number of books purchased in a year by Union. This was due to Union rece!Vmg a Capital Library Council federal grant of $24,000. This $24,000 is not included in the appropriated book budget of the . coJlege. by STEVEN M. GOFFNER Congres·sman and Mrs. Stratton visited the Upward Bound Program at Union College last Saturday morning. St·ratton spoke to the students on his role as Congressman from the 28th District and fielded questions from students and members Gf the press. Stratton mentioned his .support for student financial aid as weH as his support for general aid to ·education. Recently, the Comparing these figures to other colleges gives one a better perspective of where Union lies. Bowdoin purchased over 16,000 books, Amherst: 14,000, Wesleyan: 22,000, Middlebury: 13,000; Williams: 14,000, Tufts: 22,000, Swarthmore: 12,000, Smith: 12,000 and Vassar: 14,000. It is noted that the expenditures Union makes to its library per student enrolled for .1973(74 was ·· . 8 - k d k photo by Robbee The new Reserve oo es - · · .. Congressman intmduced a bill in the House of Representatives providing for a tax credit a:gainst an individual income for amount$ paid as tuition and fees for higher education. He claimed the hill could offer parents of college students vitl').l relief without which many parents would not be able to support their children in college. unused due to lack of staffing. reading desk whi~;h is located in the. basement. But due to a lack of staff the facility lies dormant. In order to use the facility the library needs 2.5 more staff and six more student grant-in-aids. AlsQ due to lack of staff the library has not had the capability to perform a complete inventory for as long as the staff at the library can Number of New Books Purchased Each Year by Union 1967-68 1968-69 1969-70 1970~71 7,284 6,083 5,923 5.428 ranked as 33 out of 39. Periodicals Cut Union is in a better standing when one examines the number of periodicals it receives. But instead of improving in rank, as in book 1971-72 1972-73 1973-74 5,029 4,343 9,754 remember. The last inventory taken was done two years ago and dealt only with the reserve collection. The use of the library is greatly hampered by this lack of staff. purchases, Union is rapidly Help Needed slipping in this area. In 1970-71 The library needs more stu?ent we ranked II th, rose to 9th in assistance in the form of gr~ts- 1971-72, dropped again to 11th in in-aids. The list of 39 schools .. 1972-73 and dropped further to shows Union ranked 38th in the 13th in 1973-74. Union now hours of student assistance subscribes to 1,688 periodical provided. Or. Tolan, the head of titles. In order to cut back costs the library, stated that the Union has made two major financial aide office says that they cutbacks in its periodical don't have the money to provide sub scription s. I n I 9 7 0 the grants-in-aids. There ad approximately 50 periodicals were presently 18 students working at terminated. In 1972 the library, an increase of6 over approximately another 150 last year. But Dr. I ofan. is hoping periodicals were dropped. The for six more for next year. library tried to remove only those Finally, the library is plagued periodicals that other libraries in with vandalism. Since no the consortium had and not those inventory has been done In such a to which Union was the sole· long time the exact amou~t of subscriber. Students could then vandalism cannot be determmed. use inter-library loan to obtain It is a huge problem an~ is the desired articles. This system reachin~ epidemic propor~10n~. though is under increasing attacks When some book or magazme IS by publishers of the periodicals taken or r_~pped apart t~e money and new more stringent copyright .. to replace It d.oes n.ot extst. Many laws dealing with the copying of of the techmcal Journals .cost articles are being passed by ~n average of over $15. per 1ss~e. Congress. The library was destgned _\;Ith The library due to budget the circulation desk in a pos1t1on cutbacks, als~ has a staffing so that those worJ<!ng beh.in~. the problem. The library desk co~ld Wa~ch tor theft. S1nce improvements included a reserve the circulation desk n?w ('a baret this Thursday Shows at 9:00 and ll:OO Int:idental Music Reading by Karen Williams Music with Ralph Blackwood Tom Clohesy Danny Silver What's wrong with escapism? Forget the high prices offood; Cabaret has sundaes for 30(!!! And other good buys! Forget the pressures of studying, play Monopoly. Talk, eat, or vegetate. Cabaret. Tuesday, (;arne Night. 9-2. . . . Levfs Dave's\ Mens Shop 45J sate St. Cclownto Schenectady) . functions as the reserve readmg desk the staff are too busy and cannot watch the library's exits. No other security system which is able to effectively reduce vandalism has b~en found. Albany State's library has a guard at the door to check !,oaks and has not been able to cut , down appreciably on vandalism. Any security system can easily be gotten ar:ound. What is needed is for students to respect the facility. When asked about the possible economic effects on the Capital District of both President Ford's energy proposals and Oovernor Carey's ten cent gas tax Stratton voiced disagreement with Ford' · proposals. He said that the President's enet.gy proposals Alu·mni's Invite s·t·udent.s by BILL TALIS When Union travels to Long Island on February 15, for a basketball game with the top ranked team in the state, C. W. Post, the Alumni Club in New York will host Union students for a buffet dinner. The dinner will take place at the Hilwood C oinmons Cafeteria on the Post campus, from 6:00 p.m. until game time. j.,·or. information and tickets, contact Bill Kuchta at the alumni office (ext. 616li), or write Bert Napear, '50; Mathew Napier & Co., 51 East 42nd St., New York, N.Y., 10017. Tlae deadline for reservations is February lO. Tickets for the buffet dinner are $4.00. C. W. Post is presently 11-:2, while Union, ranked fourth in the .state. stands at 7.:.2. Susanna Miller conducting members to the President's meeting of women faculty, Commission on the Status of stafland students. Purpose of Women. the· meeting was to select would have a devastating effect on the average family. As an alternative he suggested a gas . rationing program to control gas consumption ·and creating a new bureaucracy thereby creating new jobs stimulating the economy. He ·did not comment on Carey's proposals. Stratton commented that the so-called \freshman coup\ in the H0use Democratic Caucus and the . ousting of Armed Services Committee Chairman F. Edward Hebert would have no effect on his present senority nink en that committee. Stratton is the fomth ranking member of th.e committee. He also expects to he reappointed Chairman of the Military Compensation Sub- commi-ttee. This visit was the first the Congressman has made to the Upward Bound Progra;m at Union CGllege, although many stuaertts from the program have visited him in Washington during previous years. lhe on-campus sub shop, · better known as the Union Grinder, is o,pen and serving the college community. h is funded . by Saga, but managed and· . operl').ted by students. Its purpose is to provide the students with quality food at a reasonable cost ·and to create more on-campus student jobs. , The Grinder offers a unique service. for it will deliver anywhere on campus between . I 0' pm and 1 pm. It is open Sunday 'through Thursday and delivery. orders are taken starting at 9 pm with delivery beginning at 10 pm. · For those who prefer going te th!_ shop, which is located at the back door of Hale HQuse kitchen, and · getting their· subs, they can come anytime betw~en 9:30 and 1:00 pm. This Thursday the Union Grinder will-sponsor a contest to see what dorm floor or fraternity can put up and support a team of two people, who can drink two pitchers of beer and eat two subs the fastest. To qualify the team must subm,it a petition signed by. 25 people from their floor or fraternity, who will support them. The winning teafb brings back a keg of beer for their ·floor or fraternity. There is no registration fee; the -only necessary qualification is the petition which must be submitted to Hale House by 6 pm. Thursday. So remember, next time you're hungry and it's cold and snowy . outside just call 370~6193 and have sonw subs delivered.

. Page 4 CONCORDIENSIS, Wednesday, Janumy 22, 1975 Stratton Visits Library Budget Problems Upward Bound Continued from Page 1 ranked 9th i.n size on this list and is ranked 20th on the list in the number of new books it adds to its collection. I hi\ i~ an improvement over 72 73 and 71 72 when our rank was 25 and 21 respectively. Union's book and periodical ,hudget from 1967 onward is shown in the chart below. The past year of 73/74 shows the largest n urn ber of books purchased in a year by Union. This was due to Union rece1vmg a Capital Library Council federal grant of $24,000. This $24,000 is not iRcluded in the appropriated book budget of the college. k d k photo by Robbee The new Reserve Boo es - unused due to lack of staffing. vandalism has been found. AI hany State's library has a guard at the door to check books and has not been able to cut down appreciably on vandalism. by STEVEN M. GOFFNER Congressman and Mrs. StraHon visited the Upward Hound Program at llnion College last Saturdav morning. Stratton spoke to the. students on his role as Congressman from the 2Xth District and fielded 4uestions from students and memhers of the press. StrattoN mentioned his support I or st udem financial aid as well as his support for general aid to education. Recently, the Congressman introduced a bill in the House of Representatives providing tor a tax credit against an individual income for amotmts paid as tuition and fees for higher education. He claimed the hill could offer parents of college st udeflts vital rcJ.ief without which many parents would not be able to support their children in college. When asked about the possible economic effects on the Capital would have a devastating effect on the average family. As an a!Iernative he suggested a gas rationing program to control gas consumption and creating a new hureaucracv therebv creating new jobs stimul~ting th~ ecorwmy. He ·did not comment on Carey's proposals. Stratton commented tha-t the ~o-called \freshman coup\ in the House Democratic Cauc!ls and the ousting of Armed Services Committee Chairman I-. Edward Hebert would have no effect on his present senority m nk on that committee. Stratton is the fourth rankir~g member ol the committee. He also expects to be reappointed Chairman of the Military Compensation Sub- committee. I his visit was the first the Congressman has made to the Upward Hound Program at llnion College. although many ~tudents from the program have visited him iN Washington during Comparing these figures to other colleges gives one a better perspective of where Union lies. Bowdoin purchased over I 6,000 books, Amherst: 14,000, Wesleyan: 22,000, Middlebury: 13,000, Williams: 14,000, Tufts: 22,000, Swarthmore: 12,000, Smith: I 2,000 and Vassar: 14,000. It is noted that the expenditures Union makes to its library per student enrolled for 1973· 74 was reading desk which is located in the basement. But due to a lack of staff the facility lies dormant. In order to use the facility the library needs 2.5 more staff and six more student grant-in-aids. Also due to lack of staff the library has not had the capability to perform a complete inventory for as long as the staff at the library can Any security system can easily he gotten around. What is Heeded is for students to respect the facility. District of hoth President Ford's previous years. energy proposals and Governor·-~·•••••••~•1!11•1' Care\\ ten cent gas tax Stratton 1 he on-campus sub shop, \oic~d disagreement with l-ord's. better known as the Union Number of New Books Purchased Each Year by Union 1967-68 1968-69 1969-70 1970-71 7,284 6,083 5,923 5.428 ranked as 33 out of 39. Periodicals Cut Union is in a better standing when one examines the number of periodicals it receives. But instead of improving in rank, as in book purchases, Union is rapidly slipping in this area. In 1970-71 we ranked II th, rose to 9th in 1971-72, dropped again to II thin 1972-73 and dropped further to 13th in 1973-74. Union now subscribes to I,688 periodical titles. In order to cut back cnsts !Jnion has made two major cutbacks in its periodical ~uhscriptions. In 1970 approximately 50 pcriodicaJ<. were terminated. In I97::? approximately another f'iO periodical!-, were dropped. I h..: library tried to rerr.ove only those periodicals that other libraries in the consortium had and not those to which Union was the sole su hscri ber. Students could then usc inter-library loan to obtain the de'lsired articlf!s. This system though is under increasing attacks hy publishers of the periodicals and new more stringent copynght. laws dealing with the copying of articles are being passed hy Congress. fhe library. due to budget cutbacks. also has a staffing problem. The library improvements included a reserve { abaret this Thursday Shows at 9:00 and 11:00 Incidental Music Heading by Karen Williams :\1 usic with Ralph Blackwood Tom Clohesy Danny Silver Vt hat's wrong with escapism? Forget the high prices of food; ( ·abaret has sundaes for 30<J:! And other good buys! Forget the pressures of studying, play \lonopoly. Talk, eat, or 'egetate. Cabaret. Tuesday, (;arne Night. 9-2. · Lev·i~s·,· \ ,. '·· ' Dave's. Mens Shop 453 Stade St. (downtown Schenectady) 1971~72 1972-73 1973-74 5,029 4,343 9,754 remember. I he last mventory taken was done two years ago and dealt onlv with the reserve collection .. The use of the library is greatly hampered by this lack of staff. Help Needed The library needs more student assistance in the form of grants- in-aids. The list of 39 schools shows Union ranked 38th in the hours of student assistance provided. Dr. Tolan, the head of the library, stated that the financial aide office says that they don't have the money to provide the grants-in-aids. There are pre~entl) I K ~I udenb \\or king at the lihran. an innl'a~c.: of 6 over ]a,t ye;tr .. But Dr. I ,,(,Ill. i> hoping f01 :.i.'l. more fo1 nc.:.'l.t ) ~a1. Finally, the library is plagued with \andali~m. Since no inventorv has been done in such a long ti~e the exact amount of vandalism cannot be determined. It is a huge problem and is reaching epidemic proportions. When some book or magazine is taken or ripped apart the money to replace it does not exist. Many of the technical journals cost an average of over $15 per issue. The library was designed with the circulation desk in a position so that those working behind the desk could watch I or theft. Si nee the circulation desk now functions as the reserve reading desk the staff are too busy and cannot watch the library's exits. :--Jo other security system which IS able to effectively reduce .. proposab. He said that the Grinder, is open and serving the l'r··s·r·d,nt's energ_\' proposals 1 · 1 · 1· d 1 ~ ' col ege comm umty. t IS un ec Alumni's Invite Students by BILL TAUS When I 'ninn tra\d\ In I nng Island on 1-ebruary 15. lor a ha~kethall game with the top ranked team in the state. C. W. Post. the Alumni Cluh in :\ew York will host Union students for a huffet dinner. !he dinner will take place at the Hilwood Commons Cafeteria on the P(JSt campus. from 6:00 p.m. until game time. l-or mformation and tickets. contact Hill Kuchta at the alumni nllin.: (ext. 616S). ur \A-Till: Hert :\apear. '50. Mathew :\'apier & Co.. 51 East 42nd St., \ ew York. \.Y .. 10017. lhe deadline I or reservations is 1-ehruary I 0. I ickets for the huffet dinner are ~4.00. C.W. Post is presently I 1-2. \\hile Union. ranked fourth in the .\!:Itt>. '>lands at 7-2. Susanna Miller conducting members to the President's meeting of women .faculty, Commission on the Status of staff and students. Purpose of Women. the meeting was to select by Saga, but managed and operated by students. Its purpose is to provide the students with L(Uality food at a reasonable cost and to create more on-campus student jobs. I he (irinder oilers a uni4ue service. for it will deliver anvwhere on campus between 10 prri and I pm. It is open Sunday thrnugh I hunday and delivery orders are taken starting at 9 pm with delivery heginning at 10 pm. l-or those who prefer going to the ~hop. which is located at the back door of Hale House kitchen, and getting their suhs, they can come anytime between 9:30 and I :00 pm. I his lhursday the Union Grinder will -sponsor a contest to see what dorm floor or fraternity can put up and support a team of two people, who can drink two pitchers of beer and cat two subs the fastest. I o l)ualify the team mu~t >Uhmit a petitit>n ~igncd h} 25 people I rom their floor or lrall:rnit\. \\ho \\ill :.upport them. I he \lir{ning tearv bring~ hack a heg 111 heer lor tlK·ir flour or fraternity. I he~<.: i~ rw r~gi:,tratiun fee: the only necessary lJUalification is the petition which must he submitted to Hale House hy 6 pm Thursday. So remember, next time you're hungry and it's cold and snowy outside just call 370~6193 and have some subs delivered. ·········~····~ There/Sa •. - . : difference!!! ~· • • : PREPARE FOR: over 35 years a 0 MCA'J or e~penence 0 0 ft and success : 0 D A'J Voluminous home o 0 It study matertals 0 : LSAT COurses that are 0 : ft I constantly updated : : GRE Small classes :. Brooklyn center i ATGSB ~=~~Is~ ! : OC A'J complete tape • o ft taclhtres tor : • C~RT rev1ews of class 0 lessons and lor useO 11 ot supplementary 0 : FLEX matenats : Make-ups for o 0 ECFMG m•ssed lessons o 0 at our Brooklyn 0 0 cen•er 0 ! NAT'L MED BDS : • • 0 THOUSANDS HAVE o 0 RAISED THEIR SCORES o • • Branches rn Metropolitan Area e • & Major Cities in U.S.A. e i~ i e EDUCAnONAL CENTER, LTD. • • • • TEST PREPARATION • SPECIAl IS TS SINCE 1938 • : Cllll [212) 336·5300 : • (!16]538-4555•[201).572-6770. •. wme 1675 East 16th Slree~: •e Brooklyn, N. Y.11229 e ••••••••••••••• •

t s t p,, se a TYPING Reasonable Rates Fast ·se~vice 393·2233 CONCORDIENSJS, Wedn~sday, January 22, 1975 PageS Delphic Society The Delphic Society is now accept-ing nominations for spring More About Tenure · Continued from Page 1 quick to add that teaching ability alone is not enough, for faculty members must remain \academically alive.\ Professer Manfred Jonas says: \I don't think any teac.her - no matter how good h.e is - is going to stay good if he doesn't do research.\ Tenure candidate& InUst be both scholars and teachers, for as Dr. Jonas notes: ''A place :like Union can't afford anybody who can't really teach . .., After reviewing the candidate's work, the .ad hoc committee writes a report detailing its findings and stating whether the candidate is of tenure quality. Though a candidate c11n receive a summary of the repor(, he has no access to the-?'\'! rla.ta. Professor David Reece a)I;\Q;~ta. out that without such confi<lentiality, interviewees could tend to give \bhrnd and noncommittal\ responses. The tenured members of SPT review the ad hoc committee report with great care. S;PT members state that the Hndi'n~s ate rarely rejected. Yet even if SPT accepts a favorable re.port on. a candidate's tenurability. the process is not over. The Board of Trustees has limited the proportion <)f tenured faculty to 60% ~f the whole or ,65% of any department or divi~ion. Therefore. on the ·basis member can become a full ol information supplied by the professor ·only if he is already faculty's Curricular Affairs tenured, has been involved in Cornmit:tee, the Dean of Faculty ·teaching or related activities for at must determine if there are any least ten years and if his outside . tenure spots available in the scholarly work is truly candidate's department. This , extraordinary. decision can be reviewed by yet In determining.- salaries, S PT an()ther faculty group, the asks all department chairmen to Consultation Committee. rate their people on a scale of I to Contracts Offered If the candidate is accepted as tenurable by S PI and if there is a spot open for him, the reccmmendation for tenure goes to the Board of Trustees, which u~llally follows SPT's lead. On the other hand, if there is no tenure position available. he is given an extended contract .(usually for four years). According to Dean Lichterman, the extended~contr~ct system has \.improved the morale of the jmlior faculty and student body as well as saving Union ,some first- rate pe.ople.\ Promotions ate a much simpler matter. An Assistant Prcfessorship comes almost automatically when the person recei\les his Ph.D.; while an Associate Professorship is granted upon S PT's recommendation of tenurability, whether or n()t there is a tenure slot open A faculty 5. The committee then interviews the chairmen to see hov,: they arrive at their figures. Meanwhile, · the faculty members submit activity reports to the Dean. On the basis of the ratings and the reports, SPT gives its -own ratings to the faculty members. Once the committee finds out what funds are available, it assigns each faculty member a salary somewhere within the range determined by his rank. The committee's job is very difficult; as Professor Henry Harlow says: \What goes on is awfully sensitive.\ Several committee members privately conceded that they dislike the job of passing jt~dgment on their colleagues. Yet all of those interviewed said that such a process was necessary to maintain the high quality of Union's faculty. .. Art •• Schaffer 25 ; 1n ·\\\'~'\-lt--·~ inductions. Delphics is an ,\ The Coatltanger, ' which ·was found missing and then found in the Brook on the other 'side of Lenox Road. Viva 1(1 critique! On Friday, January 24th, the Union Coll~ge Coffeehouse will present DiU Staines. Staines, a native of Lexington, Mass., is a ntuiti·talente<l singer/S(mgwriter whose ad ranges froln the mellowest love songs to the most hystedcal sound effects. He has made successful performances at l'ni<ln for the past few year.s. Appearing on the b!U will be nutlr Rappaport, a soptiomoi'~ here at UCoiC This aU happens this Frid\y evening, January 24th at S:J(l pm at the Union College ('offeeholl$e in Old Chapel. 50<1! wiU get you all the (!offee and douglmuts you can devour. · honorary organization which recognizes students. who have made outstanding contributions to eXtracurricular life at Union College. Any faculty,. staff, or student may nominate any other student for membership. The nomination should include a brief paragraph in support of the nominee, and · should be submitted to the Student Activities office by Feb. 15, 1975. SHOP ON JAY STREET. For Your Mind Body Soul THE OPEN DOOR BOOK SHOP THE COUNTRY KitCHEN THE OTHER SIDE OF.TODAY 135, 136, 137 Jay Street Open Tues,-Sats. FERRo·s PHARMAcY ~I!NT DISCOUNT .m ... a .m.-. 3•t3~J-. The Union Gallery housed in the Schaffer Llbrary is n'ow open Wednesday thru Saturday, two to five p.m. lt is presently showing the works of Lewis Hine. Many of his photographs deal with the social problems Q[ the early 1900's. The above· picture shows the plight of boys picking slate from newly mined coal. With pictr,.~res such as these Hines attempted to institute social change. The · set crew for the Mountebanks' production of William Shakespeare's AS YOU LIKE I'J has commenced W()rk. No p·revious experience needed, we will teach you the· skills. Mon.· Fri., 1 :30·5

p, st le 0 • 0 y 0 l. a II y h y CONCORD/ENS/S, Wednesday, January 22. 1975 Page5 TYPING Rease>nable Rates Fast ·Service 3!»3-2233 Delphic Society ' 7\ I he Delphic Society is now ptaaiml'im-- -- -~\.- \'-t accepting nomination~ tor spring -..-Y< inductitlll!->. Delphic~ i~ an . ,· .'\. -~ hono1 a1~ urgani;atiun \1 hich { J~cng.nitl'~ ,tudcnt!->. who ha\e mad~: uuht<lllding. u1ntribution~ to ~:.xtracurricul,n lite at l'nion C ullcgt:. :\n) I <tC ult). :-.tall. or ,tudcnt may Illllllinatc an) oth~.:1 student for membership. The nomination should include a brief paragraph in support of the -.... -..-\: ~· ,.,. ... . --.~ ... , The Coathanger, which was found missing and then found in the Brook on the other side of Lenox Road. Viva fa critique! On Friday, January 24th, the llnion College Coffeehouse will pres~nt Bill Staines. Staines, a native of Lexington, :\!tass., is a multi-talented singer/son~writer whose act ranges from the mellowest love ~ongs to the most hysterical sound effe~ts. He has made successful performances at l. nion for the past few years. Appearing on the bill will be Ruth Rappaport, a sophomore here at ll(~oll. This all happens this Friday evening, January 24th at 8:30 pm at the l.lnion College ( ·orfeehousc in Old Chapel. 50o: will ~et you all the coffee and doughnuts you can devour. nominee. and should be submitted to the Student Activities office by Feb. 15, 1975. SHOP ON JAY STREET For Your Mind Body Soul THE OPEN DOOR BOOK SHOP THE COUNTRY KITCHEN THE OTHER SIDE OF .TODAY 135, 136, 137 Jay Street Open Tues.-Sats. More About Tenure quick to add that teaching ability alone is not enough, for faculty members must remain \academically alive.\ Profeswr Manfred Jonas says: \I don't think any teacher no matter how good he is is going to stay good if he doesn't do research.\ I enure candidates must be both scholars and teachers, for as Dr. J·onas notes: \A place like Union can't afford anybody who can't really teach.\ After reviewing the candidate's work. the ad hoc committee writes a report detailing its tindings and stating whether the caudidate is of tenure quality. I hough a candidate can receive a summary of the report. he has no access to th \'-\ riMa. Professor e ra. David Reece ~...,c;l#ta. out that without such confidentiality. interviewees could tend to give \bland and noncommittal\ responses. The tenured m.em bers of SPT review the ad hoc com.mittee report with great care. SPT members state that the findings are rarely rejected. Yet even if SPT accepts a favorable report on a candidate's tenurability, the process is not over. The Board of Trustees has limited the proportion of tenured faculty to 60Wr of the whole or hj(ir of any department or Continued from Page I division. l'herefore. on the basis ot Information !->Upplled by the t acuity's Curricular Affairs Committee, the Dean of Faculty must determine if there arc any tenure spots available in the candidate's department. This decision can be reviewed by yet anothler faculty gr(1up. the Consultation Committee. Contracts Offered lf the candidate is accepted as tenurable by SPT and if there is a spot open for him, the recommeNdation for tenure goes to ti;Je Board of Trustees. which usually follows SPT's lead. On the other hand. if there is no tenure posi,tion available. he is given an extended contract (usually for four years). According to Dean Lichterman. the extended-contr~ct system has \improved the morale of the junior faculty and student body as well as saving Union some first- rate people.\ Promotions ate a much simpler matter. An Assistant Professorship comes almost automatically when the person receives his Ph.D.; while an Associate Professorship is granted upon SPT's recommendation of ten11rability, whether or not there 1s a tenure slot open. A faculty member can become a full professor ·only if he is already tenured. has been involved in teaching or rela-ted activities for at least ten years and if his outside ~cholarly work 1s truly extraordinary. In determining salaries, S PT asks all department chairmen to rate their people on a scale of I to 5. !he committee then interviews the chairmen to see how they arrive <Jt their ligures. Meanwhile, the faculty members submit activity reports to the Dean. On the basis of the ratings and the reports. SPT gives its own ratings to the faculty members. Once the committee finds out what funds are available, it assigns each faculty member a salary somewi:Jere within the range determined by his rank. I he committee's job is very difficult: as Professor Henry Harlow says: \What goes on is awfully sensitive.\ Several committee members privately conceded that they dislike the job of passing judgment on their colleagues. Yet all of those interviewed said that such a process was necessary to maintain the high 4uality of Union's !acuity. Art • Schaffer The Union Gallery housed in the Schaffer Library is now open Wednesday thru Saturday, two to five p.m. It is presently showin~ the works c?f Lewis Hine. Many of his photo~raphs deal with the social problems of the early 1900's. The above· picture shmt·s the pli~ht (?f boys pickin~ slate from new~r mined coal. With pictures such as these Hines attempted tn insiitute social change. The set crew for the Mountebanks' production of Wil1iam Shakespeare's AS YOU LIKE IT has commenced work. No previous experience needed, we will teach you the skills. Mon.-Fri., 1:30·5

Page 6 CONCORD!ENS!S, Wednesday, January 22 •. 1975 Life At Union During ·world War II by BILL TALIS Tbis is th~ tid .in a series of articles about the history and near· history of Union College. Time I$ tbe grea,t destroyer· of histoey, and we. hope to fill the gaps with fact ~nd fantasy providing insight aoout \the way we were.\ · :;\:When the United States entered World War II, millions of lifestyles were altered across the nation. Few . people or institutions were left untouched by the demands of war. At Union, the- changes were very great, and c0llege · life was transformed into military duty virtually overnight in 1943. When the college closed for Spring recess, the student body was informed that the Navy would establish a unit at Union. The full cooperation of the president and .the trustees was secured, and the administration of the school's policies would be a joint effort of the Navy and college officials. The college took in over 500 Naval cadets, and 250 civilian students. For Union, the Mother of Fraternitites,. housing was provided for the Navy V-12 training program by taking over all fraternity houses on campus. l he takeoyer was coldly received, Winter Term Films All films will he shown in SSOI6 Please note that we h-ave had to raise the admissi<m charge for 5 of the 22 films. Also please note the show times (including matinees) for each movie. .. I hese films open to the campus <:ommunity and their guests only. Wl<:EKENDS: .January 11-12: Serpico 7, 9:30, 12, 2:30, 7, 9:30, 12 . .January 1~-19: 0 Lucky Man 2:30, 7, 10, 7, I 0 . .January 25-26: Sounder 7. 9, II. February 1-2: The Long Good- Bye 7, 9, II. 1--ehruary li-9: The Last of Sheila 7, 9, I!. J·ebruary 15-16: .Blume in Love 7, 9, I L 1--ebruary 22-23: American·<iraffiti 7, 9, II, 2:30, 7, 9, I I; 75¢ March 1-2: The tast Detail (and Roadrunner!) 7, 9, II. March 8-9: Romeo and Juliet 7, 9:15, 11:30. March 15-16: The Paper ('base 7, 9, H. TUESDAY NIGHTS PUIS 2: January 7: Li'ttle Murders X. 10 . .January 14: Son of Flubber and 1:-reaks 7. 10.· .January 21: Citizen Kane X. 10 . .January 23: Last of the Mohicans X. 10 . .lunuary 28: Soldier Blue X. 10. f-ebruary 4: Start the Revolution Without Me x. 10. l-ebruary I I: Alice's Restaurant X, 10; 40¢ February 18: The Maltese Falcon li, 10. l·ebruary 25: If 7, 9, ll~ 50Q: March 3: Cheyenne Autumn 7, 10. March 4: The King of Hearts ll, I 0~ 40¢ March II: It's A Mad Mad Mad \\orld but the Navy ··domina ted C oncordiensis took affront to rumliliQgs of discontent among civilians. \Friction has been particularly marked on the subject of the early nsmg seamen's counting in cadet1ce duri 11g t hei.r pre-brea'kfast marching. There are those civilians who have let their emotions ·get the better of their .JUdgment. so far as to suggest the rather barbarous retaliation of reciprocating in like kind at some hour when the V-12 meH must be in bed.\ It was perhaps with a sense of frustration that a group .of Union students vandalized the newly . d.onated statue of Chester A. Arthur, shortly after the Navy's arrival e.n campus in July of 1943. !\he statue had been cast by a !\ew York firm in 1892 according to the specificatio·ns of Commodore John Starin, the celebrated \King of New York Harbor\ (probably a prestigious title back in the 19th century). 'lhe statue had remained with Starin~s estate at Fultonville, r\. Y .• untH the estate's sa]e in the late 1930's, when his ¥randd'aughter, Marguerite Spraker of New York City presented it to the college. The vandals rugged individualism was satisfied by painting the statue of Arthur a iurid yellow, where others had been content to ,yent their artistic w:rat h up<:m the humble Idol. With calisthenics .and drilling replacing the . contetnporary campus pastim~s. of beer dt,inking and Saratoga sprints, all campus activities were curtailed, at least to some extent. The football team was in jeopardy in 1944. as. only 20 t·o 30 men would turn out for practke. Co-captains Hill and Platt appealed to the student hody for support, and only their response salvaged an undermanned team during 1944 . I he war also displaced the first radio station in the nation to have regularly scheduled broadcasting~ Radio Station 2YU had .been ·in .operation since 1916, and Union students ancd faculty with. :1ssistance from General Electric researched loop and directional antennas. The radio· station was first di.splaced in. July ef 1942, forced to become .(very) remote, but later reorganiz.ed and carded the U nion.-Columbia· football game on September 30 1 1943. Virility Important For men at war, virility was an importa.nt virtqe, an!;~ Hank Carison put out his best to gain the respect of .every-one on campus. This mission: 2,000 situps. And here's a tip, the kid's just finished his dinner, Packed away a steak, 4 corns, 6 pints' of milk, 2 slices_ of pumpkin pie, potatoes, etc. Doing one sit up every two seconds Carison had to he pounceQ on by friends after sit up number 2,007, to cease his activity. I ·he end of the war brought the ... return to normalcy'' that was sought ev~rywbete. Fraternities, thcnigh inactive .throughoUt the War, boomed immediately loltowing the Navy's departure, with 17 active houses, and· 80 pledges by the end of !945 .. R~~ll .. ble R•tes: · Fast Stl.-vi~e 193-2233 flVE ROOMS AVAILABLE FOR PAR:UES-AND BANQU·ETS featuring ltalian·Amed~.an C!lisine rfloiLer :J.e,.,.o -·~ Je6tauranl l1l5 BARRETT STREET SCHENECTADY, N; y; Free ·Parking Open 7 Days a Week ~ Tel; 01 6·9554 or fl 7·2642 7, 10; 40~r Interviews on Carnpus January 28

II k. of . . CONCORDIENSIS, Wednesday, January 22, 1975 ·Page 7 Union· Students Visit Washington D.C. by CHRIS O'CONNOR and FRED WEINSTElN Students in a,n introductory politic<tl science dass had a rare opportunity to apply their classroom experiences last weekend during a four.,day tri:p to Washington, D,C. The trip was organized' by Professors Byron Nichols and Fred Hartwig for their team-taught P .S. 10-11 course. lwenty-five freslunen; as Well as several U·pperclassmen, went to Washington .. Hartwig and Nichol.s felt that the learning that could go OIJ in a personal setting s•uch as .this trip Would be far mo.re me.aningful to students than textbook theories or classroom arguments. Students spent their time in a series of seminar presentations by a variety of Washington .officials, i nelmhng W.ashj;ngton Post Managing Editor Howard Simens. Much of -the time was also given over to free use by the students; to expl<!re the political and cultural highlights ·of the capital. Student reaction to the trip was highly favorable. Richard Rosenberg .commented, \l. had a ~:-rreat time: there was a good balance between social J:ife and learning about the political machine.'' Rosenberg used .his 1 ree time by frequenting Ge0rgetow.n and the National Art Gallery. Indeed; his time was so j:tidiciousJy allotted, he telhatked that, \l was exhaustedby the end of the trip:,; As far as hGw the trip affected his attitude toward . the government, Rosenberg related, ''I al·ways was slightly cynical, the uip. didn't change t'hose views, but reinforc.ed them.'' Cynicism was also reflected in :the reaction of John Sp~er. Speer commented with r,egard to Roger S.emetad,. a member of President l· ord's Domestic Council, \I suspected elitism was present in the government, but [ didn't reaHze ·hew much power men like. this bad. Something irnportap• may never get to the Presid\em because they control what tht Presidertt sees.\ Rich · Easton was impressed with Washington Post Managing Editor Howard Simons, who he described as, '' ... calm, straight- Simons Speaks SpeCial to Concordiensis · J. - Howard Simons was seated in a conference room at the Washington Post, talking to approximately thirty Union students aboilit pol'i tics, newspapers. and Washington. 1 wcnty-four years earlier, Simons himself graduated hom Union, and began a career that has wlminated in his present position ;Is a Man-aging Editor of the Washington Post. ~ !his was the second time in recent years that Simons has spoken to Union students: he gave the Commencement Address on June 16,. 19/3. In that speech, he talked of the founding Fathers, the Free Press, artd Watergate. He noted then the effect of Watergate oh the press, and cHnduded with his hope that the scandals would serve as a catalyst for a reawakening of the s.pirit of the nation. lh this more informal encounter with U nlon students, who were in Washington as part of their introductory political scien~e course, S imcms was·- more subdued; less optitnis.tic.- First, Simons discussed the decision- making proc€ss of behind-the- scenes placing of articles on page MEPARE FOR; LSATJ·!s~ GRE/E:.. ·~~·-·· FOIIIIa....aa. CUSSES For In~ Coniact:. Joseph A. Urso Tlmte fl£116W SERVICE 42 ltNMJI·lW~ Aflllltf 12HI 489-1254 Howard Simons speaking to students. one of the Post. Having explained the dynamics of editing a major newspaper, Simons commenced on a \no holds barred\ question and answer period with students, I he overwhelming impression that Mr. Simons left was one of pessimism about the next twenty years. He anticipated them as heing the most difTicult America will face since World War U. He commented that prospects for college f!raduates were far brighter in 195.1 when he graduated. than they -are for today's graduate. Even when specifically asked to'provide some \pithy adviqe\ for college students laced with today's world, he was uhabie to say anything positive, I his note of sobriety was a litting conclusion to the activities of the Class in Washington, for it provided the starkest possible contrast to the simplistic, abstract notions of the textbook; especially coming from a man so -- ttwolved in the \real\ wotld. LU.IGI'S RESTAURAN1 SPECIALIZING IN Italian - American Food 1125 &ARRETT ST. SCHENECTADY 016-97-U · ·£njoy. .Sizzling S~ealt$ ontJ Chop.t Jlillt Our Cocktail !Jtlr Jorward, with realistic answers to :-~t udents' lJUestiohs.\ Ea&ton further stated, \l liked talking to him even though I had a hangover.\ It is rumored that Mr. Eastori came Ol.!lt on the l•osing end (i)f a drinking contest co1~ducted in an unidentified Georgetown bar the previous evening. Pete Aronson went to lobby his Congressman in favor of the idea nf a national lottery to raise money for colleges. Aronson related that when he presented his proposal, the members of the staff \had peAcila.nd paper ready,\ and \'>·.ere \disappointed when I didn't have a bin they could look at.\ Aronson is currently trying to .an:ange writing a research paper Professor Nichols misses the joke. C(i)nstrueting such a bill, for which he eould receive independent sHtdy credit. During their stay, students in the class boarded in dormitories at the National Cathedral School. Uppcrc.Jassmen on the trip were graciously put up at the homes of Union. students Chris Taylor and Laurie Graham. Much credit I or· the >moothness with which the trip went forward goes to Mr. John Davis, Assistant Headmaster at the, St. Alban's _ SchooL and President of the Washington area., Union Alumni Club. Mr. Davis made many of the advance arrangements with people in Washington, a.nd even prt>vided his home for use during one of the seminars. Professor Nichols expressed optimism that a term m Washington, similar to the Term Abroad Programs, could develop from this trip. Other departments in the Social Sciences have expressed interest in such a rrogr.am; and it might be possible to huve a program or programs concentrating ori several different disciplines. There are problems, especially those of freeing a taculty member from his schedule to act as advisor to the program. However. Nichols suggested that these are not insoluble. DOLLAR DAY $PECIAL$ Item ELECTRONIC CALCULATORS Tl 25.50 SR 10 SR ll SR 50 HP 35 HP 45 Kay Dee Pure Linen Calendars Aristo - Charvoz-Carsen Slide Rules Cross Chrome Pencils Cross Chrome Pens Kodak lnstamtic lO Camera Kit Basic Class Ring Custom Class Ring Swe?t Suit (Jacket) Sweat Suit (Pants) F.lair & Scamp Felt Tip Pens List $69o95 -$69o95 $79.95 $149.95 $225.00 $325o00 $6.00 $6.00 $29.95 $125.00 $150.00 $8o95 $5.,95 _49¢ Special $59.95 $59.95 $69.95 $124.99 $199.99 $299.99 HALF PRICE HALF PRICE $5.00 $5.00 $25a95 $115.00 $140.00 $7.95 $4.95 6/$1.00 CAMPUS STORE Quantities Limited Nott Memorial Quantities Limited

Page8 CONCORDIENS/S, Wedn~sday, .January 22, 1975 Joni Mitchell Shines on DoUble Albu01 by DAVID MOSI\OWITZ \ ... Now me, I play for fortune and those velvet curtain calls, I've got .a black limousine and two gentlemen, escorting me to .the halls. And I play if you have the money or if you're a friend to me ... \ With this unduly severe self-portrait, J oni Mitchell reveals one of the major assets inherent in her music: an exquisite s·ense of relating honestly and personally with her audience. With the release of the double, live \Miles of Aisles,\ recorded last summer with the LA Express, Joni allows herself to be seen as a businessperson; an entertainment commodity to he purchased by an audience. Out just in time for the pre-holiday shopping spree, ''Miles\ seetns an incongruous part of J oni's musical t:haracter. The album contains a smattering of Joni's past and present, and unwisely merges the contFasting emotions and styles. Intensely personal statements like \'Rainy Night House\ just don't translate into the pop riffs of the LA Express. When the band tackles songs like ''Cold Blue Steel and Sweet Fire\ and .. Woman of Heart and Mind\ the '· result IS much better: these songs were written with such backing in mind. J oni shines her brightest when solo, where she can be as. fragile and revealing as her songs will allow. Artists in her gehre (John Lennon, for one) hide nothing of their innermost feelings. l't seems, though, that Joni i$ reluctant to restate her .past txiumphs and failures, - she sttbtly changes some of Hie words, and meanings, of several of the songs. The album's highlight comes with the performances of ~·cactus Tree\ and \For Free\ done bef~re small audiences of a size probably more easily ,related to by Joni. These cuts are tense and personal and exactly as we imagined Joni would appear on stage. The album's mistakes lie in its calculatedly confuse<! restatement of J oni's older songs. Still, \Miles. remains a perfect gift for the casual and interested listener who does not have the original albums. Fanatics had best stick to their collections and await Joni's next work. A product of a quiet, solitary recording studio, Joni's next album will allow her to be her usual intimate self. \Don't miss James Ward in COf!Cert, Wednesday, January 29, at ~:30 p.m., in Memorial Chapel!\ ~~IT IS A MISSIIG CHAPTER FROI 'THE GRAPES OF WRATH\ AND OF EQUAL STATURE~' -Judith Crist, New York Magazine ··-4ftadnttz / MATTEL Producdons \SCMfMDER\ A Robert B. Radntt:I!/Martln Rltt Fllm starring CICELYTYSON • PAUL WINFIELD · KEVIN HOOKS ·co-starring TAJ MAHAL Jan. 25, 26 at 7, 9, 11 SS016 50¢ Songs & Music by Taj Mahal Cafe. Lena Boas·ts Fine Act by MIKE AFFINITO This past weekend Patrick Sky, falk musician and song writer, appeared at the Caffe Lena on Phila Street in Saratoga Springs. Sky's performance was one of the finest seen in the area. He is a versatile and talented performer. Sky was rumored to have been a biting satirist and put·down artist, This, however, did not prove to be the case. While parody and satire were a forte of his program he was not offensive or abusive in the least. Sky has the ability to bring out the faults and imperfections of established institutions and figures in such a wa,y that one can't h~lp but be amused. His best numbers in this area were a song a bout David Bromberg, which pointed out this ,performer's most noticable faults and '\Giovanni Montini\ a song about Pope John which was written and sung in the. style;, of Tom Lehrer, On the ofher end of ·the spectrum Sky sang two very touching ballads. \Billy Clay\ a song about a misplaced and disillusioned soldier and \Song for An Jmmig:r~nt\ the story of a man forced to leave his native Ireland during the potato famine and his realization tha,t he would never be able to return. Sky also displayed his talents on the banjo playing several reels, the most noteworthy of whch was the \Hangman's Reel\ a Canadian traditional. For me, Sky's banjo playing was the highlight of his show. The most unique p<>rtion of Sky's two sets was his playing ,of the Villean pipes, which are the Irish versions of the Scottish bagpipes. Sky had spent some time in Ireland where he became interested in and learned to play Patrick Sky sings at Caffe Lena. the pipes. Considering the obvious difficulties and intricacies involved in playing the pipes Sky was superb. He played several horn pipes and jigs and .performed spiendidly _ on the difficult instrument. It was obvious that the audience was greatly impressed by this innovative addition to Sky's act. Playing .during Sky's break was Luke Ealdwin. Before going into his act Baldwin said that he had been traveling the country and playing. bars along the way. This was obvious from his act. He sang a collection of smutty and filthy tunes which 1he audience tolerated but obviously did not enJoy. Coupled with his poor selection of songs was the attitude of superiority he took toward the audience. Baldwin was ne.ither · amusing nor clever and left the audienc~ wondering why he was playing with a man of Patrick Sky's caliber. tevt;g O.Ye'ii M- Slaop I , .... ~S.:~.ady) Placement Interview Schedule Date Saturday Jan.25 Tuesday J!ln. 28 Thursday Jan. 30 Friday Jan. 31 Thursday Feb. 6 Friday Feb. 7 Tuesday Feb. II Tuesday Feb. ll Wednesday Feb. 12 Thursday Feb. 13 Saturday Feb. 15 luesday Feb. 18 Jan. 28 Feb. 3 Feb.4 Feb. 12 Feb. 25 Company Positions open Majors Professional and Administrative Career Examination for Positions with the Federal Government - had to apply by December 15th. Travelers Insurance Data Processing Programming Analysts Math, Comp. Science \ut. Corum. Bank & Trust Mana_gement Tr. Program Liberal Arts, Eco., in Banking ' Math FEDERAL GOVERNMENT CAREERS DAY - Strauss Lounge, !O:OOa.m. \2:00 p.m. · Representatives from various Government Agencies available for questions .and discussion Procter & Gamble Distributing Co. Procter & Gamble Mfg. Company P & G Manufacturing Mutual of New York Insurance Aetna. Group, Life & Casualty Johnson Controls Inc. (Service Company) Aetna, Group Life & Casualty Buffalo Fo'rge Burroughs Corporation, Marketing John Hancock Insurance OPEN HOUSE Marketing Tr. Prog. leading to careers Any Major in management Production supervision, Plant· · all engineers engineering, R&D manufact. interests, (as above) Math, Eco., Chern., Physics (as abeve) Management Assist. program any major . . _ .. actuarial, sales Training Program any major Sales Engineering M.E., E.E. Training Program any major Sales & Applicatien M.E., C.E. engineering Marketing training program Business, Mat:b, C.S. in ¢omputer sales:;Technical any majotwith tech. v training program in Systems aptitude and il1terest analysis in tech. sales Ttaining Program any major DEADLINE for application to March Federal Professional & Administrative Career Examination - test given only ONCE more this year !!! Linde Div. of Union Carbide Metropolitan L~fe Sperry Rand Engineering R&D, Mfg. Production & Sales Sales and Management CANCELLATIONS All engineers a11y major Association of Ameriean Publishers Underwriters Laboratories CHANGES MONY moved to Tues .• Feb. II GRAND UNION rnovedto Tues., I cb. 4 Gleasort Works New York Telephone

CONCORDIENSIS, Wednesday, January 22, 1975 Page9 Union College Social Committee Presents • IN CONCERT Sat. N igh.t, Feb. l 9pm Memorial Chapel ....... Tickets~--- ... $3.50 an.d 54.50 UNION OTHERS In Advance $4.0·0 and $5 .. 00 At the Door Coming: :\ ORLEANS Tickets available at Student Activities Office and from Roving UCSC Ticket Hawkers r·''<1\\'\*\-'=\'~· .... :s;\'ii:\' .. --\\'Wh at's Going 0 n~-'\' .... ,,.~,.,,.,,,.,.,,\\~\\*,,,,,,\'* J!!!!! . · · . ·by MIKE A;tiN~to . ~jjjj I Eightb Step Coffeeho.,e, 14 Willet St., Albany, 518-434- CoDege Coffeehouse, 8:30 p.m. Resemh Centec. Filene Recital Hall, 7:00 p.m. I ~[f 1703: MUSIC Thursday, Jan. 23: Diary of a chamber maid by Jean ~jjjjj ~ft Wed., January 22: Michael Berg, Mime artist and Fri. and Sat., January 31 and Feb. 1: Howl, playing the Renoir (1946) - ••Hollywood film Masterpieces of the Hj ~~tcraftsman, \Galactic Anachronisms\ music of Frank Zappa & Chick Corea, The Last Chance, 1940's,\ Ladd Hall Room 307, 6:30 and 9:00p.m. ~~~~~ ~} Thtirs.; Jan. 23: Open Jam Night 9:00P.M. 109 Central Ave., Albany, 463-9777 Friday, Jan. 24: The Gang's All Here (1942), Busby \l\@ ~jtUnion Coffeehouse: Sunday, Jan. 26: Nick Brignola Quartet, Excellent Jazz Berkeley, \Hollywood Film Masterpieces of the 1940's,\ m~! ~@ Friday, January 24: Country Dance, music supplied by Group, Ramada Inn, Nott St., Schenectady, 370-7151, 8 Ladd Hall Room 307, 6:30p.m. ~~t . ll Fennigs All Star String Band, 8 p.m. .· p.m. . Sun., Jan. 26: Kitty, Mitchell Leisin, Ladd Hall Room Hl ~tjCaffe Lena, 47 Phila St., Saratoga Springs, 584~9789: Sunday, Feb. 2: Doc Cheatham's Dixieland Band, 307,6:30 p.m. m~: j:j~j: Sat., January 25: Tom Winslow, blues, country, gospel featuring. Nick Brignola, Ramada Inn, Nott St., Monday, Jan. 27: Double Indemnity, Billy Wilder, @ @\and traditional folk music. New album entitled ••The Schenectady, 8 p.m. Ladd Hall Room 307, 6:30p.m. t!\1 ~jfClearwater.'' Excellent' performer. 9:00p.m., $2.00 Wedn~day, Jan. 22: Free Music Store, 1 p.m., Lab. . * * * * J~j 11 Friday-Sunday, Jan. 24-26: Jim Ringer and Mary Theatre, Performing Arts Center, S. U.N. Y.A. 475-8608. Fri.-Sat., Jan. 24-25: Dodes Ka-Den, (Japanese) tl\j it~ McCaslin. Ringer sings traditional folk and cowboy Free. Performing Arts Center, S.UN.Y.A., 8 p.m. l\i Jfsongs. McCaslin is a fine female folk singer. 8:30 p.m. Thursday, Jan. 23: Jazz Impact, 7 man jazz band, Thurs., Jan .. 23: Intolerance, Schenectady County \tl !ifThe Bethlehem Coffeehouse, 125 Adams St., Delmar; 439- Washington Avenue Armory, Albany, 7:30 p.m. Free. Public Library, Schenectady, 7:30p.m. j~!!i !~{9827: M<tnday, Jan . .27: Marvelous Mozart Marathon, 12 Sat.-Sun., Jan. 25m26: Sounder, Union Film Committee, m~! if[ Friday, January '24: John Roberts and Tony Barrand, noon, Recital Hall, Performing Arts Center, S. U.N.Y.A., SS 016, 50¢ til @Singers of Englishballads and drinking songs, 9 p.m. Free. LECTURES ji l! Saturday, Jan. 2.5: Poor Howard, blues guitarist, 9 p.m. FILM Thursday, Jan. 23: Martin Duberman, Distinguished !j!j:i @!j!College Coffeehouses Movies at Skidmore Service Professor of History, Herbert H. Lehman College jjjji~ M Thursd.ay, Jan. 2~: Jim Ringers, appearing at Caffe Wednesday, Jan. 22: The Married Woman, Jean-Ive of the City Univ. of New York: \Bisexuality: A ~t HLena Fn ... Sun. Thts show will probably. have more Godard Film, .sponsored by the English Dept., Ladd Hall Historical/Personal View.\ Filene Recital Hall, 4 p.m. j@ji t!~Contemporary fol~ than th~ shows at Le~a's. Lively Lucy's Room 307, SOu: adm., 6:30p.m. Fri., Jan. 24: Dr. Carl Neimayer, \Nobel Prize winners !iff @jCoffe~house, Spnng and Cmular St., Sktdmore, 8:30p.m.. Wednesday, Jan. 22: Antonia directed by Judy Collins, in Literature Eugene O'Neill,\ Schenectady County Public ~M ~~:::: 3Fnday and Saturday, Jan. 24-25: Certtral Park a film about a woman conductor; Primates directed by Library, Schenectady. 372-4415, free. !H ![~~Sheikhs, country music, Freeze Dried Coffeehouse, Fredrick Wiseman -a controversial film about Yerkees Every Tues. and Fri.: Scientology Lecture and jH ~j!~;S.U;N.Y.A., Campus Center, 8:30 p.rn. Discussion, 8 p.m. Scientology Albany, 120 Lark St ... jf[! ~r Friday, Jan. 24: Bill Staines, Ruth Rappapo11t; Union Albany. 1tl ······ ··•··· ~~~~Tt'illlt@.24ftMW2~f1f1ffu~®J¥£%TI%%~ ................. : C:arlo's P:izza & : • • •• • 1 Spaghetti House : 8 Under New Management 8 • • • 461 NOTT ST. • ·a BIG N PLAZA • • • • 377·0082 • - . . ~ OPEN 7 DAYS • • 5 PERCENT • •• ••• • • ._ DISCOUNT Wji.D. • iiilill··············~~ FOR LIQUOR AND WINE Try Jake Lipstein's 464 State Street FR4-l888: 'Serving Union For Three Generations' •166 Jay St .. • for flulk:'~l ~r\lcC And (lt'IOd .t~wclr,.· .. Union Sophmores Ask us for· your garnet & white school key. We have been giving these to Union students for 55 years. Come in for yours .•

Page 10 CONCOR,D!ENSIS, Wf:'dnesday, January 22, 1975 BLITHER The Idol w<>rkshop meets every Tuesday at 7:00 pm in Strauss Lounge. Bring your original poetry and fiction for discussion by the group. * * * * The Idol want submissions. Drop off your original poetry and fiction in the Idol mailbox in Student Activities. The Idol will publish as soon as we have .enough worthy material. * * * * All students wishing to participate in the Fal'l Term in France should see P.rof. LeClerc for an application. * * * * On Friday. January 24th, the Union College Coffeehouse will present Bili Staines. Staines, a native of Lexington, Mass., is a Multi-talented singer/ songwriter whose act ranges from the mellowest love songs to the most hysterical sound effects. He has made successful performances at Union for the past few years. · Appearing <m the bill will be Ruth Rappaport, a sophomore here at UColl. This all happens this Friday evening, January 24th at 8:30 pm at the Union College Coffeehouse in Old Chapel. 50¢ will ,get you aU the coffee and doughnuts you can devour. * * * * On Monday, January 27 and Tuesday, January 28, at 7:30 pm in the Hale House Upper Lounge there will be the qualifying sessions fot the National 'Intercollegiate Pairs. No entry fee is required and master points will be a warded. All bridge players on campus (students only) are invited. Any question, please ccall Mark Bennett at 370-6517 or Dave ·' Gordon at 346-9895. * * * * There will he a free concert held by James Ward, a talented Christian folk and jazz pianist, next Wednesday._ the 29th, from 8:30 to 10:30 pm, in Memorial Chapel. This concert is sponsored by the Union College Christian Fellowship, and all are invited to come and .share in what Jim has to say, both in his music and with his words. For further information, call Carl Johnson at 370-6570. * * * * Parlez-vous francais? Seulement un peu? Cest bon! Come to the French Conversation Club. We meet every Friday between 3 and 4 pm at the Hale House dining area. Occasionally we even sample une \erre du vin et un morceau de fromage. * * * * Political Science Juniors: Reminder - There will be a meeting of the Junior P.S. and PS-ID majors Thursday, January 23, at 7 pm in SS 115. Several important matters will be discussed and all are urged to attend. ~ * * * * Anyone interested in a joint order of kosher meat contact Bob Kaslovsky, 116 Fox. 370-6456 by January 31. * * * * The International Students Association of Union College, will sponsor its first Faculty-Student get together .party on .. Thursday, January 23, at 9 pm in Strauss Lounge. AU foreign students and faculty and those interested in intercultural exchange are cordially invit<;!d. Refreshments will be served. For more information contact: Johnny Arcentales or Carlos Costello at 346-9692, Rm. 359 Fox S. * * * * All interested students are invited to a Political forum meeting next tuesday, January 28< at 4:30. * * * * 721 ALTAMONT AVE. NO DEL!VERY CHARGE W!TH TWO PIZZAS WE DELI~t;ll UNTIL MJI)JitiGHT CaD 374--e611 The Biology Department is sponsoring a seminar on Wednesday. January 29, at 4:30 in Bailey Hall 207. The seminar. entitled, \Male Reproductive Strategies in a Communal C~urtship System of the Fiddler Crab Eca hapax.\ will be conducted by Beverley Greenspan of the Rockefeller Institute. Uefreshments will be served. THE FILM COMMITTEE PRESENTS TIIURSDAY, JANUARY 23 LAST OF THE MOHICANS IJ & 10 pm SS016 :2Scents TUESDAY, JANUARY 28 SOLDJ.ER BLUE S & 10 pm SS016 25 cents Scandinavian Furniture call Peer at 346-9225 for 269 Locust Ste Florence, Mass. (413) 586~3620 directions, and info. on free delivery 10% off everything during Ja.n. View:s· (:ontinued from Page l. lhis is a new ~;ndeavor. It's very difficult to say what our C;ll.perience will he. We have to projeCt on th~ basis of the experien~e of other scho.{)IJ!: We've heen very conservati~e in our esttmates, because the schools we've compared· oUrselves with are not located in the kind of metropolitan area that. we ar.e. The oppor-tunities for use of the facility not only for ice rental, but for i nd ustr.ial or other uses in the surnmer are not available t·o the schools we've looked at. So the potential is even greater - than what they have been able to realize. We have committed ourselves to covering the costs; and those c.osts in~;lude not only the fuel, lights, custo~Hal,. and maintenance. costs but also the personnel costs, as. well as the related program costs, as in the case of hockey. the last stages; talking to finalists. J:t is imporJant to r~member that then;: is nothing more deadly in the s,ports world, beca:use of fbe aggressiveness of reporters, than to have it leak out that so-and-so is a candfEiate, beca1:1se if yo11 are assistant coach at Harvard or some place like that, you can't afford to have your name 111entioned and not get the pos·ition. For this n:ason it is .important to keep. t.he number of people involved smalL I . l l ! f I I I To Wh!lt extent was the ·cam.pus inYolved in tbe decisions to l!ire Mr. Harkness and Mr. Cahill? In the case of Cahill. the first screening was done by Chairman of the Athletic Committee Tom Kershner. I was involved only in In the case of Harkness you bad an entiri'!IY diff~rent situation he.caiJse there Harkness' feding . lor the .c!Jllege and interest i·n ;t·he rink have bee:n known for_some time. ·rh~ rink is going to be op.en _ next year, hut we ha:Ve got l@ do som~ work now. ·rht: primary c(;}nsiderat·ion .. was to~ get an ice ri:nk manager a.nd . to get some. promotion gQing. Once Mr. Harkness became available,, t·hen · the ques,tiori became, who do you involve in this type of decision? 1 asked Tom Kershner to pick a number ·of people, inqluding students, whose advice wouLd be important: Aga.in we were i'aced \\iith the same type of problem; with people saying \I hear you're hiring Ned._ Harkness.\ The ~;onfidentiality . of this decision had to be maintained, - ---.- ·- =..,.,., LeVI'S SAG A Director .of Nutrition phQto by Robbee Research conducts scientific test ofchopped sirloin sample. Now that you've -finished where do- . . . . 6.1t ·~~ yoa~· •·-~· College is just about over. And that's a problem. Because now you must pick a career that may occupy your next forty years, deeply involve you intellectually and emotionally and help you earn three-quarters o~ a million dollars or more. Where do you start? Try The Travelers. Whatever your forte, it can probably find expression in one of the myriad types of businesses we're ·involved in. Data processing is an especially bigconcern.lfyou'reabright,en- thuslastic DP major, think about joining our staff-a large staff of sharp, inventive specialists, charged with getting the most out of the sophisticated .equipment in our multimillion dollar Data Center. It's vital. It's dynamic. It's challenging: And there's plenty of room at the top. A TRAVELERS REPRESENTATIVE 'WILL VISIT YOUR CAMPUS ON JANUARY 28. MAKE AN APPOINTMENT THAOUGH YOUR . PLACEMENT DIRECTOR AND GET STARTED ON TljE PATH TO A SA TfS:FYING AND REWARDING CAREER . THE TRAVELERS ·AN .EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLO·YER M & F t· I i •· ! I 1 l I ' I I ! l I ,, j. \• l I ' ! i· i I i I I < j l I i I I. I i I ·i I I 1 to th fr, H pr w B R sc al H m

CONCORDIENSJS, Wednesday, January 22, 1975 Pagell ------------------------sports , --p o yLN Freshman Josh Salzman (4-0) works towardspin in match with Williams last Wednesday. I-ntramural Report I he 1975 Intramural handball tournament drew 4 contestants to the hall of combat. Finishing first from among this elite group was Herm (The Hustler) Zimmerman, professor of Civil Engineering, who handed second place finisher Bill Kuchta from Alumni Relations a i out of 3 game setback. Placing a distant third and fourth were Gale K null and Horace Thompson, admittedly more or less avid beginners. Also last week 17 self- lbs, Ed Adams; I SO lbs., Tom Goette; 162 Jbs., Dave Gordon; 175 lbs .. Mike McPhee; 190 Ibs., Greg Sullivan; and Heavyweight, Randy Balcolm. Placing second be.st in the matches were: Howie Calkin, Bill Brimmer, Ken Clough, Bob Clark, John Ballard, Kurt Schumann, Willie Garofalo, Bob Morrison and Bruce Bullock. There were numerous \no-shows\ and only once was heard \l Give Up.\ Wrestlers at ·3- l The Union College wrestling team got off to an auspicious start last week. sporting a 3-1 record at week's end. Listed in the win column were victories over W illiarns, St. Lawrence and Albany State with the' lone loss ~ing to powerful Potsdam State. The Dutchmen now look forward to their second quadrangular meet on Wednesday Jan. 22 at 3 p.m. in Alumni Gymnasium. Springfield College, Dartmouth and Central Connecticut will participate. ln the season's opening match against Williams last Wednesday, freshman Robin Bennett posted an exciting 7-6 victory over highly touted Harry Jackson. in the final match as Union rallied for a 22-21 victory. Highlights of the match were pins by senior co-captain Bruce Freeman and by impressive freshman Josh Salzman. Others entering the win column were Tom Everett with a 7-4 verdict and sophomore Mike Paquette, whose 13-3 superior decision proVided the decisive one point margin of victory. On Saturday the grapplers shaded St. Lawrence 25-20, trounced AI bany State 27 -I 0 while falling to Potsdam 27-9. Three wrestlers continued with unbeaten slates to lead the Garnet attack. Bruce Freeman made it three pins for the young. season, pinning two opponents and _decisioning the third W-1. Tom Everett, out to eclips~ last year's record of . 10 wins and I loss gained two victories by decision. Josh Salzman upped his record to 4-0 with two decisions and a forfeit. Heavyweight Robin Hennett showed great promise of things to come in battling to two draws and dropping a close S-3 decision. Also recording wins in the afternoon's action weFe Greg Lyons and Jim Sutton over Albany State opposition and Larry Dagostino at 134 lbs. against St. Lawrence. Report -~~ontinued from Pa~e 3 objectives, namely sound cducatie·nal planning and administrative organization, good communications, a strengthened admissions program, better campus morale. and an attractive campus. No one c;:an measure the impact of enthusiastic students, more national attention to Union, the appointment of a Tom Cahill, a devoted and satisfied faculty, and a beautiful campus on those to whom we look for substantial . ~upport in the future. That, at least. is the battle plan for Union's future as I see it. I hope you share my optimism - an .• enthusiasm. acclaimed wrestlers came together to express, their stifled wrestling ambitions. Known as Mat-Rats in some circles, the contestants, led by Mike McPhee, wrestled 14 matches consisting of 3 periods of 90 ·second duration with one minute rest periods. Top finishers in their weight classes were: 137 rhe first week of intramural basketball went off smoothly with the least number of forfeits in recent memory. Many excellent teams are shaping up in addition to the perennial contenders. for the intramural B-baU crown. It should be an exCiting season from the standpoint of both excellence and . competitiveness. FDU's John'Sutphen, in the white, moves out towards easy victory in the hurdles. photo ·by LN Radack Their names remain the same game after game, SO' too does their status, / Union's fans are #I Recreation Events Sat. Jan. 25 Paddleball Tournament 11:00 Single Elimination Sun. Jan. l(i Paddleball Tournament I 1 :00 Single Elimination- Mixed Doubles Sat. Feb, I Platform Tennis Tournament - 11:00 - Doubles - Single Elimination Fri. Feb. 7 Deadline for Mixed Doubles Badmint-on Sat. Feb. 8 Weight Lifting Contest- Alumni Gym- 3:30 under 150, 150-175, 175-199, 199+ . ... Thurs. Feb. 13 Boxing Tournament (if interest i~ expressed to Coach Knull by Feb. l.) under 150, 150-174, 175-199,.200+ Fri. Feb. 14 Mixed Doubles Badminton 7:00 · Sun. Feb. 16 Lacrosse Shooting Contest, Fieldhouse. I :00 Sun. Feb. 13 Snow Winter Olympics (no snow date - March 2) COUNSELORS: Physically fit, sailing, swimming (WSI), ~ tripping, general. Adirondack Swim Trip Camp (Boys) 39 Mill Valley Rd., Pittsford, N.Y. 14534

CONCORDIENS!S, Wednesday, January 22, 1975 Hoop Defeated At Williams Union College is no longer 5-1. The Garnet soundly trounced bo.th Clark and Amherst in Memorial Fieldhouse last week, but then dropped a close contest to Williams in Massachusetts Saturday n·ight. This left UColl at 7 win..o.; against 2 losses ~ith a game tonight against Wesleyan here and one Saturday night vs. Hamilton. Clark was definitely no competition for one of the top teams of New York State. Before a large home crowd, the Garnet scored more than a century of points with a I 04-73 final. As Clark could muster only a single bucket for the first 7 minutes, Union 'held a commanding 47-23 halftime lead. The starting five played well, but found themselves on the bench as Scanlon freely played the reserves throughout the fiasco. Clete McLaughlin excelled in his reserve role wit'h 14 points and 7 rebounds. Pete Meola aided the cause with 8 caroms. The Garnet cennected on 5gc ·i from the field, as Denio canned IS, Gugliotta 12, and Fisher, a field goal behind, with 10. Halanced scoring handed Union its second win of the week against Amherst with another lopsided win ( S3-59), as the Dutchmen continued to smoke, hitting an amazing 56~'r of their shots. Coach Scanlon was pleased with his team's performance for rnost HANK BKRNSTEIN AND BRIAN TUCKER of the first half, but \We let up in the last 6 minutes gf the first half... in the second half, they surprised us with a man-to-man defense, hut VIe ·had too muc'h speed.\ Kelly and Goog split 2H points evenly and c'Ollected g and 9 rebounds respectively. Fisher fired in II, as Denio and Mody had 10 each. Weo was also responsible for 8 Amherst turnovers in playing. his usual tenacious defense. Rumor has it that during halftime Leroy found out that the rnan he was covenng v.as the son cf Supreme Court Justice Rehnl;)uist. Hoping to get a not her Job, Kelly helped Rehnquist seore at will in the second half and end with a game high 24 points. I he only hlemish on lJ nion's regular season record thus far came at the hands of Williams Saturday night in Williamstown. I hough the weather prohibited safe passage through the mountain roads, a large die-hard contingent from Union saw their team lose a close one, Sl-77. An observer pointed ·out that \Williams neede.d an excellent game to beat us.\ They sure had one, as the Ephmen responded to their home crowd by putting on an amazing shooting display which'lcft Union fans wondering if they would ever miss. Moreover, when they did miss, the taller Williams team kept the boards clean, outrebounding t·he Dutchmef! 49-29. Union· found itself in foul ~<rouble early and as Coach Scanlon commented, \l>t's tough . to win with Gugliotta out for 20 minutes.\ Scanl-on was disappointed with the Garnet defense and he saw that as the big dif,f ere nee. \We didn't take them <mt of their offense,\ he a,nafyzed, \and Tanner killed us With 20. Our offense was decent. Any-time you score 77 poi·nts,. you should win the game.\ High for the (iamet was Leroy Kelly who scored 24 points and added ·10 rebounds. Sc;anlon described KelTs play as \super\, Goog threw in 15 points in the 20 minutes he did play, Fisher added 12. and Denio I 0. 1-m the week, Denio has shot an amazing l6 for 23 kom the field, while Fisher, someone to be reckoned with, hit on 15 of 20 shots. This brought Fish~s shooting percentage · for the season up to an amazing 59% The Dutchmen tackle a tough Wesleyan s4uad tonight in the lieJd:house and then travel to Clinton, N.Y. Saturday night to face Hamilton. Hamilton is. having an exceptional year with 3 lreshmen swiping starting berths from 3 upperclassmen fr,om last ~car's opening five. · Reforejull house at'Lasell Gym ... , John Denio hits Pete Meola in the high post. PadclleiJaU Tolll'lley - This Saturday, January 25, a paddleball tournament will be held at 11:00 a.m. It is a single elimination event to determine the campus champion. Sign up for time slot with Coacb Knull in the Gym. Mixed Doubles - On Sunday at I I :00 a.m. a mixed doubles paddleball tournament will be run. Sign up with Coach Knull in the Gym. Boxing - There will be a first-ever Boxing tournament on Feb. 8. The weight classes will be: under 150 lbs:, 150-174, 175-199, 199+ .. Golden Gloves participants are not eligible so you've nothing to lose but a little sanity. Sports······· ····~Shorts Wanted - Coach Knull would like anyone who has an old tire inner-tube to donate for I nnertube Waterpolo to contact him. lnnertube Waterpolo is a Co\ed evenr planned for the near future. Foul Results - Coach Gale Knull, exhibiting previously untapped sources of dexterity, fortitude a.nd gamesmanship, finished 1st in the foulshooting contest held this past Sunday in Alumni Gym. Scheduled to begin at I I :00 a.m .•. no participants showed up so Coach Knull, making his first attempt, declared himself campus champ. Hockey Game - Tl)e Union Hockey Club gets its season underway when it travels to Hamilt,on to d1,1el their J. V.'s on Friday, Jan. 24 at 6:00p.m. Frosh Hoop I he freshmen hoopsters fell before Williams on Saturday night SJ-73 for their ,initial loss of the season. The Garnet Frosh record now stands at 3-1 with an upcoming clash with Wesleyan on Wednesday night at 6 rin itl Memorial Fieldhouse. A short burst midway t'lirough the first half put Williams ur by 10 and remained close to that margin the rest of the way. The Ephmen took advantage of their superiority on the· backboards to maintain their lead against the ever pressing Union yearlings who appeared nat at times in the contest. l'he offense was ~omewhat sporadic throughout the contest. This inability to score ,consistently was too big a hurdle to overcome agai.nst a t!}lented Williams quintet. High man in the scoring column for the game was Tom Bladerston of Williams with 24 poi.nts. For Union, Mike Smith was high with 19 points and Tom Casey. rom Flynn and Bob Carey reached double figures .netting 16. 12 and 10 points respectively. Steve Jones brings horne 2 mile relay victory. Crawford Cwts, Clete Boyer and ·Bob Moffat rcmfirst 3 legs. Spikers lhe Union College t,raek squad was squeezed out by Fairleigh Dickinson-Teaneck for team honors in the opening rneet of the season at Memorial Fieldhouse on Saturday afternoon. The team scores were FDU-49, Union-47, Ham i Ito n-24, · 0 swego-12, l.eMoyne-6 and Hartwick-!. Entering the meet without the services of all-purpose standout Dave Ricks, prospects. were anything but bright. However, with freshmen excelling i·n several events. the Garnet spi kers pressed J-DU the whole wa:r. The frosh standouts included Bob Moffat Who posted a victory in the 600, Phil Wamfilmaier with a second in the mile and Phil Stegeman who placed thin~ in the hurdles. Outstanding performances for the Dutchmen were turned in by Bill Mastaitis with a winning pole vault of 13'6\ Bill lVI owery once a_gain in the shot (49-WY:!), Milt Edged Herring in the 50 (0.05.4) and the two mile relay team of Crawford Cutts. Clete Boyer, Moffat and Steve Jones as they ·covered the tartan track in an excellent time of 8:01.4. Coaeh Michelsen was very pleased with the teams performance. FDU is a big time track school at~d Union .remained competitive all the way. The meet standouts were ~FDU's John Sutphen · and Paul Lockett. Sutphen, a world class hurdler, took that event easily as Union ace Mark Scheu~r was dis4ualified for a false start Lockett compiled I I team points 'with a winning high jump of 6'4\ and second place finishes in the huniles and pole vault. :\ext on tbe horizon for the Dutchmen a,re Springfield, LeMoyne and Oswego on Saturday again in Memorial Fieldhouse. Sophomore AI Walker fires · jumper over outstretched arm o.f Ephman Harry Sheehy. ~

Page 12 CONCORDIENSIS, Wednesday, January 22, 1975 Hoop Defeated At Wiltiams Union College is no longer 5-l. lhe Garnet soundly trounced both Clark and Amherst in M emori<:JJ Fieldhouse last week, but then dropped a close contest to Williams in Massachusetts Saturday night. This left UColl at 7 v.ins against 2 losses ~ith a game tonight against Wesleyan here and one Saturday night vs. Hamilton. Clark was definitely HO competition for one of the top teams of New York State. Before a large home crowd, the Garnet scored more than a ceHt ury of points with a 104-73 finaL As Clark could muster only a single bucket for the first 7 minutes, llnion held a commanding 47-23 halftime lead. The starting five played well. but found themselves on the bench as Scanlon freely played the reserves throughout the fiasco. Clete McLaughlin excelled in his reserve role with 14 points and 7 rebounds. Pete Meola aided the cause with 8 caroms. The Garnet connected on 59r ·r from the field, as Denio canned HI, Gugliotta 12, and Fisher. a field goal behind, with 10. Balanced scoring handed· Union its second win of the week against Amherst with another lopsided win (l\.1-59), as the Dutchmen continued to smoke, hitting an amazing 56% of their shots. Coach Scanlon was pleased with his team's performance for most HANK BERNSTEIN AND BRIAN TUCKER of the first half, hut \We let up in the l:ast 6 minutes of .the first half... in the seconcl half, they surprised us with a man-to-man defense, but we had too much speed.\ Kelly and Goog split 2R points eve.nly an<;! cullected H and ~ rebounds respectively. Fisher fired in II, as Denio and Mody had 10 each. Weo was also responsible for H Amherst turnovers in playing. his usual tenacious defense. Rumor has it that during halftime Leroy found out that the man he was covenng \las the son of Supr.eme Court .Justice Rehnquist. Hoping to get an other job, Kelly he I ped RehnLJuist score at will in the second half and end wit:h a game high 24 points. I he only blemish on Union's regular season recoro thus far came at the hands of Williams Saturday night in Williamstown. !·hough the weather prohibited safe pa·ssage through the mountain roads, a large die-hard contingent from Union saw their team lose a dose one, lll-77. An observer pointed ·out that \Williams needed an excellent game to beat us.\ They sure had one, as the Ephmen responded to their home crowd by putting on an amazing shooting display which'lcft Union fans wondering if they would ever miss. Moreover, when they did miss, the taller Williams team kept the hoards clean, outrebc;>Unding the Dutchmen 49-29. ll nion · · found itself in foul trouble early and as Coach Scanlon commented, \It's toug'h to win with Gugliotta out for 20 minutes.\ Scanlon was disappointed with the Garnet defense and he saw that as the big difference. \We didn't take them out of their offense,\ he anaJyzed,. \and Tanner killed us with 20. Our offense was decent, 1\nytime you sconi 77 points, you should win the game.\ High for the Ciarnet Was Leroy Kelly who. scored 24 points and added I 0 rebounds. St;:anlon described Kcll's play as \super\, Goog threw in 15 points in the 20 minutes he did play, f-'.isher added 12, and Denio I 0. For the we.ek, Denio has shot an amazing 16 for 23 from the field, while Fisher, someone to be reckoned with, hit on 15 of 20 shots. This .i>rought Fish 1 s shooting per>centage for the season up to an amazing 59% The Dutchmen tackle a tough Wesleyan squad tonight in the I ieldhouse and then travel to Clinton, N.Y. Saturday night to lace Hamilton. H arnilton is. having an exceptional year with 3 freshmen swiping starting berths from 3 upperclassmen frorp last \Car's opening five. Rrjorefull house at' Lasell Gym .... John Denio hits Pete Meola in the high post. Paddleball To-.mey- This Saturday, January 2S, a paddleball tournament will be held at 11:00 a.m. It is a single elimination event to determine the campus champion. Sign up for time slot with Coach Knull in the Gym. Mixed Doubles - On Sunday at 11:00 a.m. a mixed doubles paddleball tournament will be run. Sign up with Coach Knull in the Gym. Boxing- There will be a first-ever Boxing tournament on Feb. 8. The weight classes will be: under ISO lbs., 150-174, 175-199, 199+. Golden Gloves participants are not eligible so you've nothing to lose but a little sanity. Sports ........ ·····A Shorts Wa11ted - Coach Knull would. like anyone who has an old tire inner-tube to donate for lnnertube Waterpolo to contact him. Innertube Waterpolo is a Co-ed event planned for the near future. Foul Results - Coach Gale Knull, exhibiting previously untapped sources of dexterity, fortitude and gamesmanship, finished 1st in the foulshooting contest held this past Sunday in Alumni Gym. Scheduled to begin at II :00 a.m .. no participants showed up so Coach Knull, making his first attempt, declared himself campus champ. Hockey Game - Tl)e Union Hockey Club gets its season underway when it travels to Hamilt,on to duel their J. V.'s on Friday. Jan. 24 at 6:00 p.m. Frosh Hoop I he freshmen hoopsters fell hefote Williams on Saturday night S3-73 for their initial loss of the season. lihe Garnet Frosh record now stands at 3-1 with an upcoming clash with Wesleyan on Wednesday night at 6 pin in Memorial Fieldho.use.. • A short burst midway duough the first half put W illiarns up by 10 and remained close to that margin the rest of the way. The f:phmen took advantage of their superiority on the· backboards to maintain t·heir lead against the ever pressing Union year lings Who - .appeared flat at times in the contest. The offense was ~omewhat sporadic tluoughout the contest. This inability to score \wnsistently was too big a hurdle 1 o overcome against a talented Williams 4uintet. High man in the scoring column for the .game was Tom Hladerston of Williams with 14 points. For Union, Mike Smith was high with 19 poi tits and Tom Casey. I om Flynn and Bob Carey t·eached double figures netting 16. 12 and 10 points respectiVely. Steve Jone$ brings home 2 mile relay victory. Crawford Cutts. Clete Boyer and .Bob Moffat ranfirst 3 legs. Spikers The Union College track sq.uad was squeezed out by Fairleigh Dickinson-Teaneck for team honors in the opening meet of the season at Memorial Fieldhouse on Saturday afternoon. The team scores were FDU-49, U nion-47, Ham ilton-24, Oswego-12, l.eMoyne~6 and Hartwick-!. Entering the meet without the services of aU-purpose standout Dave Ricks, prospects were anything but bright. However, with freshmen excelling in several events. the Garnet spikers pressed 1-DU the whole way. The frosh standouts included Bob Moffat who posted a victory in the 600, Phil Wandilmaier with a second in the mile and Phil Stegeman who placed thin,! in the hurdles. Outstanding performances for the Dutchmen were turned in by Hill Mastaitis with a winning pole vault of 13'6\ Bill Mowery once again in the shot (49-10\6). Milt Edged Herring it1 the 50 (tl.05.4) and the two mile relay team of Crawford Cutts, Clete Boyer. Moffat and Steve Jones as they covered the tartan track in an excellent time of 8:01.4. Coaeh Michelsen was very pleased with the teams performance. FDU is a big time track school and Union remained competitive all the way. The meet standouts were FDU's John Sutphen and Paul Lockett. Sutphen, a world class hurdler, took that event easily as Union ace Mark Scheuer was disqualified for a false start. Lockett compiled II team points ~ith a winning high jump ·Of 6'4\ and second place finishes in the hurdles a11d pole vault. ,.. \ext on the horizon for the Dutchmen are Springfield, LeMoyne and Osweg.o on Saturday again 1n Memorial Fieldhouse. Sophomore A I Walker .fires · jumper over outstretched arm of Ephmtm Harry Sheehy.

·, Vol. 3, No.5 Union CoUeee Black Student Alliance~s N:_ewspaper January 22, 197 5 Editor's .Prerogative BSA Spol)sors Peebles' Play ]~[1~ Have you tried fighting a losing Union. They (:ontrol our grades,!:!!!: ~!:.·!! .. battle lately? lt isn't even fun. (iUr money. They_ are also the!i.!i.!f.~ An intervieW w~th Porky Fatback ' l~erspective: I hear that ; there's li Especially when you don't know ones Who are urging us to be so)!!li going to be a ,play sponsored by !~iii who you are battling against. Are buddy with the white folks,i:i:I li Y_ oti _deft with· yo1.1r hands~ You because they have an image to(!!!!! tphekB.SF.At.bt.:hiks· tyermh. l·t's \A'n~t w. 'h b· · .. 'h ....... ory a ac. ea ... 1 ::::!:mig t say yes, · ut JUSt try meet wtt . · . !:!:I s · d · T Die A Natural Msometh~ng assimple as pointing , White Stu~ents of Uliionj!j~! ·~~~~~~. b~ Melvin Van i!m: your rmger at someone around ('?liege: Question: If you wereM Peebles ... lt's a musical without !j~!j here,. It'll :never ~ork. That's the be!ng forced. to come. up .. tot\ sin in if ou can dig :~::: trouble With Umen. N_ o one can H 1ckok every weekend With a:rms:;:;:; t,t., gt (gh, u kl ·)y ······ .. h .. ·k hd dd .,:-::ua ... cces :;m ever pmpomt t e misery rna ers outstr~t<; ~ an· · o some!i1i;l . . . w·.. , .. ·.. . b . . . ? i!i!i! around here. · _bootltcktng to Black:::f:l Pers. hos gon~g. to em It. i!i!i! The situation here at Union for administrators for scholarships,::n P.F.: WeU, audttions. for .parts !111 Black folks is like on of those etc., wouldn't you be violentlyill ~ere Thursday, Fnday and j!j!j~ Alfred Hitchcock movies where a opposed? I could see college@: Satur~ay... the 16t_h: I?t~ ~nd {iii grot~p of people are trying to officials urging y,ou to remove~!!!: 18th ... m the !'fumamttes bu~ldmg. :r; drive someone else crazy, for their harriers to communications, but'1il room 019. I JUSt se.en the sign-up ]! owngains. And, the victim almost to go the other way and becomdK sheet ' 00 the bulletin board. ll goes crazy by just trying to prove grinning fools? ... Well, you'dneved{ Pers: What kind of parts are {! to someone that she knows have to worry about that. Y oud@ available? j\f something fishy is going on. The parents on the whole are putting=11~ P.F.: There's 17 s~eaking roles ::li!i reason no one ever listens to her you through school with theidt! and 5 non-speakmg ... and .to 11f is because the people she goes to money. Money talks. You all Jjjj!; ~reak t ~at down a little more .. .S :ti in confidence are those who are have no Damocles sword.A lot ofm: SISters wdl speak and 12 brothers. 1! messing with her mind. There is you, if you were forced out of\f[ The rest ~f the cast are what I call r::: one optimistic viewpoint. l have school, could live comfortably i!!l \'supportiv:; characters.\ \f: yet te> see one of those movies end forever on youl' folks income. Oh, ;tt Pers: Some of the brothers and :t: up with the plotters conquering sure; there are a good many oft~~. sisters feel that this might be too !1\ the \plotees.\ And its that happy you who are trying to work your !tf much of a production to do .. . '!!:!!ending rm all for. way through school, in the same!!!} P.F.: Right...Yeah ... (chuckle) ... Ya ~r! They tell us here that we have a ho'at as us, broke, self supportingjg know- like Billie Holliday sang: [1 problem. The problem, they say, lhere are a few of us here who I!~ (Porky sings melody of God Bless fj is the I' a c k of r a cia I aren't on full scholarship. I'm not !\l the Child) \them that wants, shall il communication between stt1dents. trying to say all of you are !\J get\ ..... or so,m.ething like that...lfs t\' That was a pretty good one carefree and .rich, but there are ~:t all in the mind. (pause) Sure it's j1!\!1 because it took me a long time to enough -of you that are, and that t11 gonna take a lot of hard work, !!iii~ figure out that that is only a do make a difference. Our l;:i: hut what, that's ever good, 1\ .proposed problem to get us off problem is that we want to !j!\!i doesn't?'!?'!? ~t the track from the rea:l one. The maintain and cultivate our pride, \!11 But unlike other .. plays' or 1f! real one is that Union College and that pride doesn't allow us to \l musicals \Ain't Supposed To fj wants to develop a , certain become a part of that image\!!~~ Die ... \ is free form - Uamn near l1t image, and one obstacle they making program which some-@~ all the action comin' out of if::!! must deal with i& \them rowdy folks I know are trying tom~ improvs ... (and lord knows we be @j1 Niggers\. If only they would act institute. They won't leave us @j improvin') (and in some cases @jj right and kind of evenly disperse alone. And, to top, it off, they jj!1i1 improovin') our butts off every 1:m: themselves amongst the white think they are doing us a favor. !!!i11 day ... (loud laughter which dies t1~ folks here, things would be great. W\lat l would like to do is be jjijjj ihto a chuckle) !!~!~\Not taking into consideration the able to point my finger atl!~ Pers: O.K. but how about all t-he \~Jp()ssibilities that w~ don't want it so:nebody who is responsible foor\i\~ll production' work? How's that :::phat way, or that they don't want th1s undue pressure and tell him j!j@ gonna come off? j]j:\!it that way. Y'know, students are to get the. hell out of the way ;~~li P.F.: Some folks is handy with ![the least of our worries, ?ecause because there is ,educating to. be j\i\l\ they mouths, and others is handy i!ili!those who want to assoctate do. done and we don t even have time:::~:: with a point brush and so j1t lho~~ Who don't, do~'t. As_ lo~g for. this foolishness. I'm not j~~ on ... Di_g? (Pause.- Porky reflects ::tas 1ts not exclusive, It Is paymg almost five thousand a !i!~!i 1\!j!jlegitimate. year to be a . showpiece for!!!~\ it! No, our immediate problem anybody. I'm writing this as a !iil~:. iflhere is not students. but message to anyone who might be :m \~\l!administrator~ and faculty. They responsible. Maybe you'll get the !!1\~ i!i:llare the ones who determine just . hint and quit while the quittin's!jlj!i J~l:,~~,~~,~:=:~~~======~:,,,,,,,~~Z=~=:=~~~=~~:::::~=~::::::f:~::::,~:L=='''''~ggg~,:::::::::::::=::!=:='============='=:===:,:,:,==:=:=========:===:===:======::=:='='='='=::=:=:::=======~ll~~ Stratton Visits Upward Bound deal directly with personal problems people of their district may have in conflict with the .government Congressmen help cut the red tape ohe usually .goes through when appealing to the government for' a change in decisions. Porky Fatback talks to Perspective. a minute) Wouldn't it be beautiful if the B.S.A .... They're sponsoring this, right? Pers: Right. P.F. Well, wouldn't it be beautiful if workin' on somethin' like this, as a gr.oup }urnped off.. I mean how much better and how much more unified as a group could , 'all feel?'?'??'? Than to start with ~m idea and watch it take shape and grow and then (Porky makes a sound of ecstacy) ... at the end of it's growth period ... have ,people sayin; how much they dug it.. .. l don't know about you but it sure woUld make me feel good ... Ya know? And somethin' else ... People in the community are interested in plays ... but don't have no outlet. .. I get around, ya know ... Black folks in the community talk: (changes voice) \lhem niggers at the college got they nose open.\ Black folks here talk: (changes voice again) Them niggers in the community sure is mean to us.\ Why not invite people from the community to take part? Add all this to the shapin' and growin' Continued on Page r ,I ·~ Upward Bound on Air Eye Witness News is con- ducting a speci ii'J report on Edu- cation whic'h covered the Upward Bou'nd program here at Union College. Representing Upward Bound were Anthony Sharpe, director, illld volunteer Don Harrell. who works closely with the program. I he spot on T e lc\ is i o n v. hich was arranged by Ken Spates, Jr. the public relations man for the program, gave ll pward Bound an oppor't'unity to let the area know more about lJ pward Bound and its setup. It Saturday, January 18, 1974, Congressman Sam Stratton carrie to Union College to visit the Upward Bound students. Though the Congressman didn't get as close to the students as was planned, the tlay went well for newspaper reporters and T.V. people who pumped the Congressman with many questions. that were basically · ir.relevent to Upward Bound. One young woman with a stack of Selidarity papers under her arm asked a six minute question which when added to other questions !rom outs:ide infringed . on the time the Congressman had with the students. He did, however, get to give his definition of hi,s ·branch of congress which he seemed rroud to boast, \is still the only government office you get to by dcction''. Since they are all the reople's choice, they make the laws under which we operate, and More pertinent to Upward Bound Was a question asked by Don Harrell requesting that Congressman Stratton keep us abreast on legislations affecti,ng with Upward Bound. Don spoke of the program's concern about being cutback as a result of the president's proposed budget. Congressman Stratton advised us to wait about a week until the budget came out, for a more -definite indication of allocations for compensatory education, but :-.poke favorably about the future of Upward Bound. lt was concerns like Upward Bcund that made it . necessary for the people Anthony Sharpe (/rift) looks on as Sam Stratton (right) meets the press. rs lfoc.:f feaerally- funded and 20 1 ;;, llnion College funded. Also, hecause Upward Bound is for poorer people, they have no real political support or lobby group to go to bat for them. Because the · president has the poWer to defer the payment of funding, Upward Hound is in financial difficulty \\hat with the cutbacks in the ll.l:..W. department. We hope the airing brought the importance of the program to some people and \\ill have helped to call for their :, up port. to \Keep a dialogue going on\ between the Federal government and the common people. This dealing could be perpetuated hy what Stratton was doing, i.e. going out and meeting with different groups and sending out questior1n!\ires. Stratton then talked about the necessity programs such as Upward Bound are beca'use of the importance of post high school education. That point he underlined by talking about the unemployment :-ituation. Stratton can he said to he a liberal congressman or father identifies largely with· the liberals in the Congressional makeup. It is because of this make up that the luturc of the Upward Bound program despite the cut in the H. E. W. department, is optimistic. Don Harrell pointed out ( ontinued on ll>age ('

Page B PERSPECTIVE, Wednesday, Janu4ry 22, l975 ~~--------------------------------~--------------- ~ ............................... a.....-=••··· ...... .. • • • •1 WHO WE ARE I a I Editc:»r - Isiua Person a . .a • Editor's AssiStant.- The House a • • I Poetess in Residence - Utamu ·I a a • • a a 1 Photography Editor - Bill Collins l I Typist -Ron Westbrook. :1 I Sports Editor - Marilyn Becton :1 I General Writers - Sharon Brown, Thomas Watts, ·I a a I Special Thanks to· Gail Chatman, Subt. L. I • • a Hent ., Ana Logy Brian James Smart, Sadoma a • • 1 Homs & Don Harrell .1 la ... aaaaaa••--•aaaa•aaaaaaaa .. aaaaaaa••••a .. aaaa .. 81 A Question Answered In a past issue ef Perspective, I wrote · an article posing the question about the freshmen play, i.e. I was wondering if it was fixed to be chosen in coordination w:ith the Integration movement on campus. Officially I still have not heard, but some Drama students and some of those freshmen play actors have talked with me. From them I gather that the play was chosen by a committee and that they were not under the influence of having to chose such a play. I'm very. glad to hear that. Though it has been a term s-ince I've seen the play I can better enjoy the play as a dramatic 'war k which was merely reflecting times of some point in the past. One person I talked to strongly believed I had missed the whole point of the play. Not true. Even at the time of my seeing the play I did not think it was the author's fault. Again, I was just wondering why would it be cho-sen as a play with Black and white parts, especially since the only Black parts were sub-servient in nature. Thanks to those who bothered to answer my question. lsidra Person Once upon a time there was a King, named Orchid Flower, who : teigned over a most respected and reputable garden patch. This King v.as the type of flow.er who was · · more worried about the p.hysical appearance of his patch than ~he · in~ernal makeup. He had a thing · about sqowing the rest of the . \alley just what he could do with · a garden patch arid he had to have the flowers just so,. even ·when it didn:t make much sense. Heing of this nature, when any other Hower would oppose him, he :would just weed' the plant out and replace it with a new one. He had aU the orchids grow in rows neatly aligned. Off to the side of the patch was a group of Hlack orchids that grew together in no special formation, just sorta free. Since other gar.dens of the valley were decorating their. patches with Black orchids, King Flower decided he would put' some in his. Never did he realize th~ hard time he was in for. I-'irst he tried pulling them up,. hut they stood firmly rooted. Then he_ hired some Black orchids from that they would want to spht up. And he just couldn't stand it any longer! A:ll the rest of the valley had gardens with Black otchids, some even had all kinds ·of floWers. Frustrated and furious the King· bitterly cried himself to sleep, Soon he was dreaming ubout the orchids. Once again he v. ent t:CJ them but before he could open his mouth they came peacefully. Overjoyed, King I- lower stuck a Black orchid in v. herever space w,ould ·a:llow. I hen he stood back a-nd admired his wMk. \Hot Damn! Everyone wiH kwe it! And they'U be so jealous!\ Old King giggled with g!ee. The.n he took another good look. His 'beautiful garden. had wilted; He ran over to the 0ther 11owers and. cried, \What's happening! Don't die! Oh why ate you doing tltis!\ The nearest flower gasped, \Wa:ter ..... water ..... he . drank all my water .... .IJ.rave no room, no other g_ardens to see what .they --- could d.o, which Wasn't much .. He even had tr<iuble with. those orchids an:d li:ad to weed them out and replace them with new ones when they wouldn~t keep in line. :\ext he tried to make the Black orchids feel they were missing out on something big ifthey didn't get into his garden, No- response. So finally he suggested to them point blank, \I think you would be room to sttetch my roots; he's · cramping me~ Help, I need some · sun! Oh, please, he's taking an my light.\ . ••oM How stupid of me! I forgot they•d need growing .ro.om! They've all killed themselves and now my garden is ruine.d!\ Old King was getting into his dream so much he woke himself up. with .his sobs. He was so glad that it was just a dream he <Iecided to leave weiJ enough alone. Instead he decided to weed , and till his gar9en and add • vita!llins to his soil. .His garden grew strong, 'beautiful and •' sep~:~rate. He got even more compliments on his garden, not • just · from the other gardc:mets, but ftom the orchids of his own garden. He even got good w@rds . fl'Om the Black Orchid garden. : And that's the way it go. Moral: To those of you who are trying . this garden patch caper You'll see your end · right in this paper Leave well enough alone. ·better off if the whore bunch of you would move to the middle of my garden.\ When asked why he said, \Because if alJ you flowers haw to grow close together, you have no choice hut to get along .. \ I his was very transparent to some of the Slack orchids because they remembered a time wli.entheydid live like that and there were fights everyday. The old King was \vilting from exasperation. Those \First he tried pulling ,them up ... , Jeff Broomes, \Hangin' Loose\ dumb Black orchids wouldn't even fight amongst themselves so -...Badnttz / MAlTEL Productions ''SOUiiDER\ A Robert B. Radnitz/Ma;-tin Bitt Film ·«J'\CENTURv.fOX ~·~ Who is Jeff Broomes Anyway1-\ ------- In Lio 1400 there is a Mab : Prof. named Hadler. She was : supposed to be knowledgeable in : her field but she hardly knew · anything -at all. One day she entered a class Jeff Broomes is probably the first Black president of the student body that Union College has ever had. Calm down, Union, if you ate just now noticing what you have done, because Jeffs politics don't very often coincide with those of the B.S.A.' well he remembered freshman year when there was no \House\. Then we were all splattered all over this campus and I can remember a worse situation. 0 f course, Dean Smith wasn't here then. Also, Jeff wasn't aware that the BSA chose to move up to Lenox Rd. He though we were :stored up here · through· some rulings of the housing office. When he understood it was -our choice he could better see why we did not want to-move. When asked why he Wasn't a member of the BSA, Jeff said thai he didn't feel it was necessary. He had no problem adjusting when he came here, he sees himself as with } blacks in it. They were Bee, Hob and Tor. Now they were intetested in nedicina and really liked their M·ab· class. Hadler took an immediate dislike to the 3. When they asked her a : question, she either told-them that : she didn't know or gave them an answer that was short, indifferent, and didn't help them at all. No matter how good their work was she failed them. Grand Opening One day a mab was done with .. . rarets but because of Tor's home i ' Sllrroundings she was afraid of BS A D arkr,... ,---~-----=:-·,,,. J'arets. 1 nstead she was allowed to do the bisections with When the rest of the class did b bisections, all who had qUestions '=': wer€ sent to Tor. Hadler stayed:\: out of the room as much as·:: possible. · When the time came for the !:: ·:';: rnab final, Tor died. The test ·:·. entirely on rarets. When the uui:tl:::::=: shocks were over, the 3 Sli:tck:s:::::\ saw great.irtjustices. Bee and H was at school so they were able scream for their justice. Tor was not in school. Bee and Hob . to scream for Tor but Soth, the separtmentie head wouldn't • of it. When Tor came back, one told her that she could scream so when she found out, it was too late. So with that she left the separttnentie of hate to go to Cine of friendliness . If you like Lio ~'1400 and you have 'iiladler for a mab prof., transfer if ·you want justice. Jeff Broomes ran for the office because he was \willing capable and able\ to attend to such matters as student acttVltles, grades, the calendar year student relations and student faculty relations. Although he admits that he and his cabinet got very little accomplished last term, they at least got the PIRG issue straightened out. He and the other ten members try to take group's considerations into account before any decision is made ;and they have measured·. campus opinion through the aid of questionnaires. To further his attempts to get the whole campus involved he has been having his meetings at different hot spots around campus. He .plans- to have one at Hickok as soon as the BSA will okay the 1dea. different from Black people here ('being from .Barbados) as we ate One of the many things the from whites. He sees himself as B.S.A. is proud to prese.nt is the more than a Blac;k student and grand opening of our 2nd floor pretty much a loner, so he just darkroom. For ()Ur many budding likes to \Hang Loose\. He does young photographers, and those however see race relations at who have been dying to learn lJ nion as being very strained. A · about photography, .this is an lot of this he attributes to the excellent opportunity. The quality many misconceptions about Black of pictures in Perspective will students which are floating undoubtedly- become heightened around campus and which he too because. of this convenience. The is a victim of. Example: Why only work left to do is painting don't you come to any BSA shelves. Bill C()Hins will conduct meetings just to find out what's elasses on darkroom use Monday, happening on the darker side of January 27, at 7:30: p.m. Speak the campus'? Ans: I was never with him for further details. invited to a BSA meeting. Note: Special thanks for our darkroom I he BSA sends no invitations to goes to Maintenance, Tony M., anyone. for meetings. Bobby D., Gloria. Amanda. First :Minority Planning Conference Jeff thought Dean Smith's bright idea of moving Hickok down campus was excellent hecause he was standing on the premise that if We are all close together in proximity, we will become closer in other ways. However. I asked Jeff (being that he is in my graduating class) how Cheryl, Gail and Eddie Love. On [)ecember 5th and 6th, 1974 the First Minority Planning Conference was held at the Holiday lnn-Dowtown of Gary, Indiana. lhe conference' was designed to outline the problems, needs and urgencies to begin a new era of minority relationships. Those minorities being concentrated on at the conference were Blacks, Latinos. Chicanos, and American Indians. l'hroughout the conference minority unity, education and economic power were stressed. I he format of the program consisted of seminars concerning ;political power, tnass media con.trol and education on Thursday the 5th. The agenda for Friday the 6th consisted of further seminars and panel discussions coneriting urbanization, economics and cross--cultural strategies. Minority members from all <lVer the country were irtvited. The turn out Was large, however, there was. a scarcity of American Indians in attendance. Attending from Union were Sharon Brown and Carlos Hill. (C !il SJ B al 1- p rv Ia It tt sl SJ E d a ( I 0 s u r: r I s \ I

Page B PERSPECTIVE, Wednesday, January 22, 1975 --~------------------------------------------------- , ................................................... .. • • I WHOWEARE I • • 1 Editor - lsidra Person 1 1 Editor's Assistant - The Hause I : Poetess in Residence - Utamu I • • • • • • 1 Photography Editor - Bill Collins 1 I Typist -Ron Westbrook. I • • : Sports Editor - Marilyn Becton 1 1 General Writers - Sharon Brown, Thomas Watts, 1 I Special Thanks to Gail Chatman, Subt L. I I Hent . 9 Ana Logy Brian James Smart, Sadoma I • • I Horns & Don Hanell : • • • • ······································~·············· A Question Answered In a past issue of Perspective, I \\rote an article posing the ljUestion about the freshmen play, i.e. I was wondering if it was fixed to be chosen in coordination with the Integration movement on campus. Officially I still have not heard, but some Drama students and some of those freshmen play actors have talked with me. From them I gat her that the play was ~:hosen by a committee and that they were not under the influence ot having to chose such a play. I'm very glad to hear that. I hough it ha' been a term smce I've seen the play I can better enjoy the play as a dramatic ·work which was merely reflecting times of some point in the past. One person I talked to strongly helieved I had missed the whole point of the play. Not true. Even at the time of my seeing the play I did not think it was the author's tault. Again, I was just wondering \\ hy would it be chosen as a play \\ith Black and white parts, especially since the only Hlack parts were sub-servient in nature. I hanks to those who bothered to answer my question. lsidra Person Jeff Broomes, \Hanr.;in' Loose\ Once upon a time there was a King, named Orchid Flower, who reigned over a most respected and reputable garden patch. This King 11 a' the type of flower who was more worried about the physical appearance of his patch than the Internal makeup. He had a thing <lhout sho\\ ing the rest of the 1alley ju~t what he could do with <I garden patch and he had to hme the 11owers j11st so, even 11 hen it didn't make much sense. Being of this nature, when any other flower would oppose him, he would just weed the plant out and replace it with a new one. He had all the orchids grow in lll\\s ncat ly aligned. Off to the ~ide ut the patch was a group of Black orchids that grew together in no special formation, just sorta tree. Since other gardens of the \alley were decorating their patches with Black orchids, King !·lower decided he would puf ~orne in his. Never did he realize the hard time he was in for. First he tried pulling them up, but they ~tood firmly rooted. Then he hired some Black orchids from other gardens to see what they could do, which wasn't much. He e1en had trouble with those orchids and had to weed them out and replace them with new ones \1 hen they wouldn't keep in line. \ext he tried to make the Black orchids feel they were missing out on something big it they didn't get into his garden. l\o response. So 1inally he suggested to them point blank. \I think vou would he better off if the ~hoFe hunch of ~ ou would move to the middle of my garden.\ When asked why he 'aid. \Because if all you tlowers have to grow close together. you have no choice but to get along.\ I his was \ery transparent to some of the Black orchids because they 1emembered a time when they did li1e like that and there were tights e1eryday. The old King was 11ilting !rom exasperation. Those dumh Black orchids wouldn't e1en tight amongst themselves so .,.aadnitz / MATIEL Productions Pr1?sen1s \SOUNDER\ A Robert B. Ro.dnitz/Martin Rltt Film 20'\ CENTURY· FOX ~~ Who is Jeff Broomes Anyway?---- .I ell Broome~ i~ pwba bly the tir't Black president of the -.tudent body that Union College has ncr had. Calm down, Union. 1f you are just now noticing what \ou have done, because Jeffs politics don't very often coincide \\ith those of the B.S.A Jeff Broomes ran for the office because he was \willing capable and able\ to attend to such matters as student actJVJtJes, grades, the calendar year student relations and student faculty relations. Although he admits that he and his cabinet got very little accomplished last term. they at least got the PI RG issue -.traightened out. He and the other ten members try to take group's considerations into account before any decision is made .and they have measured campus opinion through the aid of questionnaires. Io further his attempts to get the whole campus 111\olved he has been having his met:tings at different hot spots around campus. He plans to have one at Hicknk as soon as thc> HSA \1 ill okay the idea. .Jell thought Dean Smith\ hright 1dea of moving Hickok down campu~ \\a~ excellent hecause he was ~tanding on the premise that if we are all close together in proximity, we will hecome closer in other ways. However. I asked Jeff(being that he 1s 1n my graduating class) how \\ell he remembered I reshman ~ear when there was no \House\. I hen we were all splattered all over this campus and I can remember a worse situation. 0 f course, Dean Smith wasn't here then. Also. Jeff wasn't aware that the HSA chose to move up to l.enox Rd. He though we were -.tored up here through some rulings of the housing office. When he understood it was our choice he could better see why we did not want to move. When asked why he wasn't a member of the BSA, Jeff said that he didn't feel it was necessary. He had no problem adjusting when he came here. he sees himself as different from Black people here ( heing from Barbados) as we are !rom whites. He sees himself as more than a Black student and pretty much a loner, so he just likes to \Hang Loose\. He does however see race relations at I: nion as being very strained. A lot of this he attributes to the many misconceptions about Black -.tudents which are floating <~round campus and which he too 1., a victim of. Example: Why don't you come to any BSA llll'l'lin,!!s just to find out what's ilappenlll,!! on the darker side of the campus'! Ans: I was never nmted to a HSA meeting. Note: I he BSA sends no invitations to anyone for meetings. Grand Opening BSA Darkroo One of the many things the H.S.A. is proud to present is the grand opening of our 2l'ld floor darkroom. For our many budding young photographers, and those \\ho have been dying to learn about photography, this is an excellent opportunity. The quality of pictures in Perspective will undoubtedly become heightened because of this convenience. The only work left to do is painting ~helves. Bill Collins will conduct classes on darkroom use Monday, . January 27. at 7:30 p.m. Speak \\ith him for further details. \pecial thanks for our darkroom ,!!oes to Maintenance, I ony M., Hobby D.. Gloria, Amanda, Cheryl, Gail and Eddie Love. that tl:ley would want to spilt l'lp. And he just couldn't sta>nd it any longer! All the rest of the valley had gardens with Blac'k orchids, 'ome even had aU kinds of !lowers. Frustrated and furious the King bitterly cried himself to ~Jeep. Sool'l he was dreaming about the orchids. Once again he 11ent to them hut before he could open his mouth they came reacelully. Overjoyed, King !lower stuck a Black orchid in 11 herever space would allow. I hen he stood back and admired h,is work. \Hot Damn! Everyone 11ill love it! And they'll be so Jealous!\ Old King giggled with glee. Then he took another good look. His beautiful garden had \\ i I ted. He ran over to the other !lowers and cried, \What's happening! Don't die! Oh why are you doing this!\ The nearest flower gasped, \Water. .... water ..... he drank aJ:l my water ..... ! have no room, no room to stretch my roots; he's crampling me. Help, I Need some sun! 0 h. please, he's taking all my I ight.\ \OH How stupid of me! I forgot they'd need growing room! They've all killed themselves and now my garden is ruined!\ Old King was getting into his dream so much he woke himself up with his sobs. He was so glad that it was just a dream he decided to leave well eno11gh alone. Instead he decided to weed and till his garden and add vi,tamim to his soil. His garden grew strong, beautiful and separate. He got even more compliments on his garden, not just from the other gardeners, but from the orchids of his own ga>rden. He even got good words from the Black Orchid garden. And that's the way it go. Moral: To those of you who are trying this garden patch caper You'll see your end right in this paper Leave well enough alone. \First he tried pulling them up ... \ the rest of the ciass did In Lio 1400 there is a Mab bisections, all who had questions : Prof. named Hadler. She was 11ere sent to Tor. Hadler stayed :, .,. ~upposed to he kno\\lcdgeable in out of the room as much as , .. her field but she hardly knew possible. anything at all. When the time came for the One day she entered a class ma b final, Tor died. The test was \\ith 3 blacks in it. They were Bee, entirely 011 rarets. When the final Hob and lor. Now they were ;.hocks were over, the 3 Blacks interested in nedicina and really saw great injustices. Bee and Hob liked their Mab class. Hadler v.as at school so they were able to took an immediate dislike to the scream for their justice. Tor was J. When they asked her a not in school. Bee and Hob tried ljuestion, she either told them that to scream for Tor but Soth, the she didn't know or gave them an separtmentie head wouldn't hear answer that was short, indifferent, of it When Tor came hack, no and didn't help them at all. No one told her that she could matter how good their work was scream so when she found out, it she failed them. was too late. So with that she left One day a mab was done with the separtmentie of hate to go to rarets but because of Tor's home one of friendliness. surroundings she was afraid of If you like Lio 1400 and you rarets. Instead she was allowed to have Hadler for a mab prof., do the bisections with bogs. When transfer if you want justice. ·. . ; . : :· :: :. : :: First Minority Plannin,g Conference On December 5th and 6th, 1974 the First Minority Planning Conference was held at the Holiday I nn-Dowtown of Gary. Indiana. I he conference was designed to outline the problems, needs and urgencies to begin a new era of 111 inority relationships. Those minorities being concemrated on at the conference were Hlacks. I atinos, Chicanos. and American Indians. lhroughout the conference minority unity, education and economic power \\ere stressed. lhe format of the program cons is ted of seminars concerning ·political power. mass media L·ontrol and education on I hursday the 5th. The agenda for f-riday the 6th consisted of I urt her seminars and panel discussions conerning urbani7at ion. economics and cross-cultural strategies. Minority mem hers from all over the country were invited. I he tum out was large, h owevcr . I here was a scarcity of American Indians in attendance. Attending from Union were Sharon Brown and Carlos Hill. • t< a ' 1:! a !, I I :\ I< h c <I

... PERSPECTIVE, Wednesday, January 22, 1'975 Pagec ~Speaki11g of France-- Speak Out: lwo of the House members wok advantage of the term CJ.bt:bad program at Union and spent to weeks in Rennes, France. Besides being now a:ble to rea,d and speak a:nd think fluently in 1- renc'h, Cathy Smith .and Sonia Pearson have seen Paris, and Madrid, cities we are aU very tamiliar wit.h but few of us ever have the remotest hopes M seeing them. J he set up was that each student stays wit.h a family who speaks only French or very little English. They. took two ·c0urses dealing with French civilization and stylistics. The rest of the time (besides fidd trips) was largelY .allotted for the students · to ~xplore France on their own. Here are some of the ·observations of the two: While in France, they met no other Black Americans. There were. a lot of North Africans, Black Africans, Antilieans, etc .. , studying in France. They were all on the same social level and uni venial brotherhood was practiced in the ~tteets, but the fact that Sonia· and Cathy were Americans \got them over\ better with the French people. In other words \they were a definite .cause of curiosity\ being . 61ack, but were more accepta·ble by French people . because they were Americans.. Cathy had t-rouble explaining to her family why she and Sonia were both considered ' Black, because of Cathy's light skin. A lot of people thought she was a white git!with·'funny hair''. At the farewell dinner at the end of the term people told Cathy and Sonia that 'they wefe surprised that they could be nice and Black at the same time. The French people had preconceived notions that all American Blacks were super-militant. A lot of times it \\as hard fgr Cathy and Sonia to classify the negative reaction they might have gotten from · the h'ench because they are as .anti- American as they are anti- Sonia P~arson and_ Cathy Smith (seated) back from France. •. anything else. However, the French have a definite negative attitude towards Africans who make a practice of coming to France to make a fortun~ and then sending the money back to Africa, which do~sn't 'help out the Hench economy. The French feel threatened; hence, the dislike. One other observation about the people there is that one finds fe~ fat people in France. A,lso; they tend to be dressed to kill, (the working people) and in a French study it was di~covered rha the first priorities of a French paycheck is clothes, then food, tllen rent. Another oddity is that though the French men wear bad rags. they \'{ear them for days at a time. This is because the water is so expensive there. The city is c_lean, though, noticeably clean, and Sonia's one aomplaint was the mounds of dog \merde\ adorning the .sidewalks. She says French people ate very crude in Umt the people think nothing of seeing someone stopping fo take a public teak in broad daylight, menand women alike. All of this is · shockingly in contrast . to IF YOU WOULD LIKE TO SUBSCRIBE TO PERSPECTIVE fill out the blank below ;md mail it to: Perspective, c/o Thomas Watts, 1005 Union St., Sch'dy, 12308. Subscriptions are FREE! name•----------~--------~-- address•----~----- France's refined front. When cooking, the people make use of every part of everything they cook, throwing nothing away. One thing that was congruent to their ,:pre-conceived notions about France was the beautiful art and cultural aspects. The cuisine was terrible, (Cathy's family had never eaten fried chicken) hut the cheese, wine anq bread was excellent. \It's very easy to become a-n alcoholic in France\ Sonia said, citing that France has the highest rate of akoholism per ropulation. I he two t:ound Madrid to be more fun than Fra nee, partly hecause the peo.ple were warmer there than the cold French \folks. I heir Sangria was a'lso nice. Cathy and Sonia agreed that overall it was a pleasant, most interesting trip, Sonia intends to go abroad again, to Columbia with the Spanish department spr..i.ng term. There is a lot more hoth have to tell, but sorry folks, that part is unprintable. PORKY FATBACK ('ontinued from P;tge A thing and the ''Hiacks down here Blacks over fhere'' thing becomes somethin' new .. _Can you handle that? Pers: One more question Porky. Taking all of your expertise and knowledge into account .. how do you think \Ain't Suppos.ed To Die A Natural Death\ will come off? P.F. (Laughs) To quote the illustrious (arid fat) Fats Waller, from the i 1943 production of '\Stermy Weather\: \ONE NEVER KNOWS, DO ONE\ Boston Seb.ools The. situation of the i11tegrationist attempts of the South Boston schools bring many things to light. However, the crucial point that stand out in my mind is the handling of the whole problem. Back in the late 1950's through the mid 1960's, it was the South whose throats integration was being ,pushed down. Remember Little Rock? But on the whole, the turbulence ended without any lasting scars. This is not to say that there · was no resistance beca11se there was. But when all regal means had been exhausted, ·school integration continued at its· snail's pace. What was the north doing while all this was going on? 0, the northerners just sat back on their royal cans and scolded southern whites and Blacks from res1stmg this change in the educational system. They even sent federal trsJOps to make sure that the program went along smoothly. It .even got to fhe point whereby some schools had their federal subsidies cut off for refusing to· go alC'.ll.{( with the .. game plan.\ ' !\:ow fhe shoe if ,n the other foot. The courts have ordered the South Boston schools to shape A Robert B. fl,lulnitZ/ Me.rtin Rltt Film Sat •. at 7, 9·11 '~ . '7911 lli'l 3- _ Sun. at , . l!!!l«~P· All Shows in SSQl6 Continued from ,Page A afterwards that some of the problems Upward Bound faces is · having the same budget for the- last few years without. increases for the high cost of living. He teared that Upw.ard Bound may be politiked to extinction\ because the evaluations of the program were crucial to their longevity and priorities, therefore were political. It the program gets bad evaluations so money can be distributed elsewhere then it's ''curtains\ for Upward Bound .. up, and it seems like old t·imes. Now northern Whites and Blacks are going through the hell and turmoil that Southerners faced. !'iow it' isn~t so easy for .them 10 make those .. Utopianistic\ comments. Now the South can say I told you so. Will the federal troops be sent to Boston or will their federal aid he cut? Does the statement,. Do unte others as you would have them do., unto you apply in this situation? It should 1 but of course it doesn't. ~ome liberal senator, whose name escapes me at this time, said the Boston situation sho\lld be handled with kid gloves. Where were those gloves. back in the 50's a.nd ·60's, It's about time northern elementary a'nd high school administrators take a long look at their racial makeup. The race ratios of school systems in ]';,Y.C., Denver, Los Angeles, are so unevenly balanced, it will take years for them to even look res peetable. My advice to northerners is just sit back and relax, it really ain't all that bad. I mean, if we can tolerate you, you should gladly rec i pr ocate. • Marilyn Vanessa Bet;ton Did Yo·u Know? ... These Musical Firsts? I Caterina hrboro was the • first black female singer to star in an all-white opera c:ompany ·in the U.S. in 193(), Mamie Smith was the first ' black blues singer to record in 1920. Robert C()le was the first black to write a Black play for Black talent in 1898. It was the first show prod11ced, conceived directed and managed by blacks The play was titled ••A Trip to (()ontown\ The Pace Phonograph Corp. 1 was the 1st Black recording company - established in 1921. Carl Rossini Dilon was the first black pianist to tour the l :.s. . 4 ............. ..... 0 u Alliance Basketball -------LIP ·s· h·· ·· ••· · ' ... eta. \It's football time in I ennessee!\ That's the cry .throughout the Volunteer state when the U.T. Volunteers take the playing field at Neyland Stadium in Knoxville, Tenn. (I'm just crazy about the Big Orange) Anyway, I would like t.o reword· that phrase by saying, ••It's basketball time in Schenectady!\ (well I tried) These words can be attributed to the razz.le-dazzle play of the Black Student Alliance's basketball team. along with an upperclassman who \\as ineligible to play last year due to . his ·participation on Union College's freshman basketball team easily filled the void. These freshmen superstars include Edward Ad:tms, Ed Metz, Brian Smart, and Jolln Toomer. Oh, and that ••ineligible\ player is William Collins. New gym teacher Sheila Weaver and her husband In the Old Gym there is a very busy lady. Her name is Sheila Weaver. Sheila handles women's athletics here at Union. Sheila ·was born in Des Moines, Iowa. She attended Drake University in Iowa and also Kent State~ Her major? What else, Physical Education. She is married with no children. When asked what would she like to see at Union she replied: \To see women sports programs develop and to get more women interested in athietics. She also would like to see a start in a tradition for successful women athletic teams at Union. Sheila has already gone through two team sports and she is working on a third. The Hockey team was 3-3-l. Volleyball was 3-7. The basketball team will start its season on Tuesday at Williams. Well to you Sheila, we say Good Luck. Gloria Fans of the Alliance felt pangs of apprehension f ot the coming season. as the ranks of the team has been .depleted due te graduation. Old favorites such as Curtis Rowe, David White, Glenn Carrington, Roger MacDonald, and Stanley O'Brien, would surely be missed. Only three players returned from last year's squad. I hose players include such talented individuals as, Edgar S. Dunhart. a sophomore, Leonard D. Lee, sophomore, and Ronald )1.. Westbrook, a senior. and also the captain of this year's squad. I here was really no need for concern as the freshman players, l he fears of the fans were smashed t to smithereens· on January 14. Til is was the first game of the season for the team .. . as they rolled past t he1 r opponents, the flamers, by a ~core of. 67-24. In the beginning, the game was somewhat ragged, as both teams went through an adjustment period. H owt:ver. after this phase had run its course, the AUial)ce controlled the game until the final buzzer, High- ~coring honors went to freshman John Toomer, with 19 points. HULLETIN: The B.S.A. was again victorious in their second outing of the season as they defeated Sigma Phi (B) team by a o,core of 58,21 on Monday. Ed Metz was the high scorer with 19 points.

• PERSPECTIVE, Wednesday, January 22, 1975 Page c ----Speaking of France--- .I wo of the House mer:n ben took advantage of the term abwad program at Union and 'pent 10 week~ in Rennes, FraHce. Hesides beiHg now able to read and speak and think fluently in I rench, Cathy Smith and Sonia Pearson have seen Paris, and J\.1 adrid, cities we are all very lamiliar with but lew of us ever hme the remotest hopes of seeing them. I he set up was that each 't udcnt stays with a family who 'peaks only French or very little Lnglish. They took two courses dealing with French civilization and sty lis tics. Il!e rest of the time (besides field trips) was largely allotted for the students to explore 1-rance on their own. Here are some of the observations of the two: While in France, they met no other Black Americans. There were a lot of North Africans, Hlack Africans, Antilleans, etc., 'tudying in France. They were all on the same social level and universal brotherhood was practiced in the streets, but the !act that Sonia and Cathy were Americans \got them over\ better \\ith the French people. In other \\ ords \they were a definite cause of curiosity\ being Black, but \\ere more acceptable by French people because they were Americans. Cathy had trouble t>Xplaining to her family why she and Sonia were both considered , Black, because of Cathy's light ~kin. A 1<11 of people thought she \\as a v. hik girlwit h ··runny hair\. ·\t tht' larewclldinner at the end lll tht: tt:rm rcoplt: told Cathy and ~unia that they were surprised that thty could he nice and Black at the ~amc time. lhe f-rench people had preconceived notions that all American Blacks were qtper-militant. A lot of times it \\as hard lor Cathy and Sonia to classify the negative reaction they might have gotten from the f-rench because they are as anti- ,\merican as thev are anti- Sonia Pearson and Cathy Smith (seated) back from France. anything else. However, the hench have a definite negative attitude towards Africams who make a practice of coming to f-rance to make a fortune and then sending the money back to :\!rica, which doesn't help out the hench econmny. The French feel threatened, hence, the dislike. One other observation about the people there is that one finds lew lat people in f-rance. Also, they tend to he dressed to kill. (the working people) and in a f rcnch study it was discovered tha the first priorities of a French pa)check is clothes. then food. then rent. Another oddity is that though the French men wear had rags. thev wear them for davs at a time. I his is hecause the w~tter is 'o expen~ivc there. The city is dean, though, noticeably clean. <Illd Sonia's one complaint \\as the mounds of dog \merde\ adorning the sidewalks. She savs hcnch people are very crude ; n that the people think nothing of 'eeing someone stopping to take a public leak in broad daylight. men and women alike. All of this IS shockingly in contrast to IF YOU WOULD LIKE TO SUBSCRIBE TO PERSPECTIVE fill out the blank below and mail it to: Perspective, c/o Thomas Watts, 1005 Union St., Sch;dy, 12308. Subscriptions are FREE! name: ___________ _ address. _________ _ --------LlP----- New gym teacher Sheila Weaver and her husband I· ranee's refined front. When cooking, the people make use of every part of e\erything they cook. throwing nothing away. One thing that was congruent to their pre-conceived notions about !·ranee was the beautiful art and cultural aspects. The cuisine was terrible, (Cathy's family had never eaten fried chicken) but the ~:heese. v. inc and bread was excellent. \'It's very easy to become an alcoholic in France\ Sonia said. citing that f-rance has the highest rate of alcoholism per population. I he two found Madrid to be 111 ore 1 un than f-rance. partly because the people were warmer there than the cold f-rench folks. I heir Sangria was abo nice. <.athy and Sonia agreed that (1\erall it was a pleasant. most Interesting trip. Sonia intends to )!o abroad again. to Columbia 11 it h the Spanish department 'prJng term. There is a lot more both have to tell, hut sorry folk~. that part is unprintable. l)ORKY FATBACK ( ontinued from !'age :\ thing and the \Blacks down here Blacks mer there\ thing becomes somethin' new ... Can you handle that? J>ers: One more question Porky. I a king all of your expertise and knowledge into account..how do ~ou think \Ain't Supposed I o Die A \\atural Death\ will come off? Jl. F. (Laugh~) 1 o 4 uote the Illustrious (and fat) Fats Waller. !rom the 1 lt.14~ production of \Stormy Weather\': \0!\:E 1\EVER KNOWS, DO 0 :'\ E\ Sheila! In the Old Gym there is a very busy lady. Her name is Sheila Weaver. Sheila handles women's athletics here at Union. Sheila was born in Des Moines, Iowa. She attended Drake University in Iowa and also Kent State. Her major? What else, Physical Education. She is married with no children. When asked what would she like to see at Union she replied: \To see women sports programs develop and to get more women interested in athletics. She also would like to see a start in a tradition for successful women athletic teams at Union. Sheila has already gone through two team sports and she is working on a third. The Hockey team was 3-3-1. Volleyball was 3-7. The basketball team will start its season on Tuesday at Williams. Well to you Sheila, we say Good Luck. Gloria Speak Out: Boston Schools I he ~ituation of the integrationist attempts of the South Boston schools bring many things to light. However, the crucial point that 'tand out in my mind is the handl,ing of the whole problem. Back in the late 1950's through the mid 1960's, it was the South \\hose throats integration was being pushed down. Remember Little Rock'? But oH the whole. the turbcllence ended without any lasting scars. This is Hot to say that there was no resist a nee because there W<~s. But when all legal means had been exhausted, ~chool integration continued at its 'nail's pace. What was the north doing while all this was going on'! 0, the northerners just sat back on their royal cans and scolded southern whites and Blacks from res·Istmg this change in the educational system. They even ~ent federal troops to make sure ' that the program went along ~monthly. It even got to the point \\hereby some schools had their lederal subsidies cut off for refusing to go alc'.o.g with the \game pian.\ · :\ow the shoe i~ ,n the other I oot. rhe courts have ordered the South Boston schools to shape ~adnitz / MAITEL Productions Presents ''SOUNDER\ A Robert B. Radnltz/ Martin Rttt Film Sat. at 7, 9·11 . Sun. at 7, 9 11 ~ 01 All Shows in SS016 ( ontinued from Page A afterwards that some of the rrohk:rm l\p\\ard Hound laCL'' i~ having the same hudgct lor the Ia~! lc\\ years \I it hout. increases lor the high cost of living. He I cared that Upward Bound may he politikcd to extinction\ hecause the evaluations of the program were crucial to their I ongevity and priorities, t hercforc \\Crc political. It the program gets had evaluations so money can be distributed elsewhere then it\ \curtains\ for Upward Hound. up. and ii seems like old time~. '\ o\\ northern whites and Blacks are going through the hell and turmoil that Southerners faced. '\ow it' isn't so easy for them t n make those \l!topianistic\ comments. Now the South can \a) I told you so. Will the federal troops be sent to Boston or \\ill their federal aid he cut? Does t lw 'tatemcnt. Do unto others as you 1\ ould have them do unto \ ou apply in this sit1:1ation? It sho~ld. hut of course it doesn't. Some liheral senator, \\hose name escapes me at this time, said the BostoH situation should be handled with kid gloves. Where \\ere those gloves back in the 50\ and 60's. It's about time northern elementary and high school adm.i Histrators take a long look at their racial makeup. The race ratios of school systems in '\. Y .C., Denver, Los Angeles, are \O unevenly balanced, it will take \ears for them to even look respectable. :\1y advice to northerners is just \it back and relax. it really ain't all that bad. I mean. if we ca!l tolerate you. you should gladly reciprocate. \larilyn Yanessa Becton Did You Know?.u These !\'lusical Firsts? ( aterina Jarboro was the first black female singer to star in an all-white opera company in the t·.s. in 1930. .'\Jamie Smith was the first black blues singer to record in 1920. Robert Cole was I he first black to write a Black play for Black talent in 1898. It was the first show produced, conceived directed and managed )}~ blacks The play was titled \.:\ Trip to Coontown\ The Pace Phonograph Corp. was the 1st Black recording company established in 1921. < ar! Rossini Dilon was the first black pianist to tour the { .s. Alliance Basketball ·'It's football time In I enncssec!\ Ihat's the cry throughout the Volunteer state \\hen the t:.r. Volunteers take the playing lield at '<eyland Stadium in Knoxville. I enn. (I'm JU~t crazv about the Big Orange) ,·\nyway.\ I would like to reword that phrase by saying, \It's basketball time in Schenectady!\ (well I tried) Ihese words can he attributed to the razzle-dazzle play of the Black Student Alliance's basketball team. ~ ans of the Alliance felt pangs of apprehension for the coming \t:ason, as the ranks of the team has been depleted due to )!raduation. Old favorites such a~ l urtis Rowe. David White, Glenn larrington. Roger MacDonald. and Stanley O'Brien. would ~urel:. he missed. Only three players Ieturncd !rom last :-ear\ ~quad. I hose players Include ~uch talented individuals as, 1-dgar S. Dunhart. a ~ophomore. Lennard D. l.ec. sophomore. and Ronald \. West brook. a senior. and alw the captain of this year's squad. I here was reallv no need for wncern as the lreshman players. ;dong \\ ith an upperclassman\\ ho 1\ a~ me ligi hie to play Ia~ t ~car d tiC to hi~ participation on l · nion l ollege's freshman basketball team easily filled the \Did. Ihese lreshmen superstars ind ude f dward Adams. Ed Mett, Hrian Smart. and John Toomer. Oh, and that \ineligible\ player is \\illiam Collins. I he fears of the fan~ \\ere \mashed 1 to smithereens on January 14. This was the first game of the season lor thL' tc.:am .. a~ they rolled past t hci r llpponents, the f·lamcrs, h:o- a ~core of 67-24. In the heginning. the game was ~omev. hat ragged. a' hoth teams \\ent thnlligh an adju~tmcnt period. fl(,\IL\Il'f. ;tft cr this phase had run it~ cour~e. the Alliance contwlkd the !!a me until the fin a I butter. H igh- ~conng honors \\c:nt to frL'\hman John I oomer. with 19 points. Bl I.U.Il;\;: I he B.S.\. v.as .tgain victorious in their secnnd PUt ing of the sca~Pn as they delcated Sigma Phi {Bl team h~ a 'core ol 5X-21 on Monda!. I'd \let! was the high scorer with !9 points.

PageD PERSPECTIVE, Wednes~Gf· January 22, 1975~ ··············•••l poetry ... ••••.•• ,. •••••.••• ! Children of Harlem, what have you got. Rats~ roaches, drugs and the lot. What special training do you have. Robbing houses and stores. Learning to hustle as a chore. ' Black ............ white. White ........... black. When someone say White - what does one think of ls he Italian,.Jewish, English, French, etc. 1f you call some White- what does he say. Running from cops as your tryouts for the Olympics. Sitting in jail with nothing but memories. I AM G~rman, Greek, Russian, etc. White coveres too many races Harlem child, what are you going to do. Your mama can't help you She's not equip. You Qld mail can't help you He died from another one of his trips. Run child, run. Get out of the Harlem ghettoes. For only then can you begin to dream. Gloria Black is .... Not being afraid to walk in the rain ... Cause you've got-naturally curly hair! Utamu ASHADEOF A DIFFERENCE Black ... or midnight, jet, ebony, sienna, sepia, gold, sable, charcoal, tan, sorreiJ, auburn, chestnut, bronze, copper, cinnamon, russet, chocolate, walnut, mahogany, cocoa, coffee, even beige... and many many more! WE CAN'T ALL LOOK ALIKE ... NOW CAN WE? ·. ·:,-.· -_;· Black is the color of my skin · Black is the color of my kin Black is how I was brought up to think Black they say will be the cause of my life to sink Black is what I want to be · Then why can't my Blackness set me free The white man said \'No; you are a slave. For that is the road for you l have paved.\ No! -- I want to be free That is what my Blackness means to me If I must fight, then let it be For my body and soul'. just has to be free Gloria IS SHE THE WOMAN I AM? Baby that little bitch you been messing with is gonna cause you to lose me. yeah, she's fine. rn admit that. She has a head full of straight hair. She wears bad clothes. But ... Is she a woman? Am l? She looks good at parties ... you say? She makes you look good too ... You think! Well, Is she good for you? Is she good to you? White don't want to be recognized. When someone says Black - It is clear. It is one .race that someone is speaking ·of. Yes, we are Black . We may come from different countries but We are Black. Black is specific. ~lack is us. Weare Proud Black People. Each of us is unique but we are Black. · \ Gloria Doin' it 1 Together Saturday ·January 25 - A S(Jai:e ·Party - and get spacy cause if's a cosmic thing (Don't Bring The Kiddies Cause This· Is Rated X) For Mature Audiences ·Only. Free with refreshments. Saturday, Feb. 1 - A Soul Food Buffet Followed by a Party. $2.00 admission for party and ...-dinner. Free Refreshments \Leave yourself at home if you're tired.\ Dinner at 7:30 p.m. aU parties . . at 1:00 p.m. Sponsored by: The BSA of Union College. Ode to two distant Brothers: It's a blessing in disguise. Next deadline of Perspective is February 2nd. Please have all artJcl'es typed and doublespaced. Thank-you. There will be a meeting of .the newspaper staff and all others interested on T)mrsday ' evening, to.morrow, immediately after the BSA meeting. Topic: Election of new editor. BSA Basketball G arne Schedule for two upcoming games: Thursday, January 23, at 9:00 in the Field House on the Varisty court. 2) Monday, January '27, at 7:00 in the Field House on varsity court. When you went through those changes because -of ,that shit you was taking did she help you kick? Was she there when you went through the pain? Did SHE sit with you and hold you? ·or Did she talk about you like a lot of your other' GOOD friends? Does she listen to you when you want to talk about things ... besides her, I mean? And when you make love to her is· she there? Or is she as empty as she looks? Can I love? Do I love? Maybe I should say Do we LOVE? You know! You know exactly what we do! Do you need her? Do you need me? Make up your mind now baby. Cause you see. I don't plan to wait forever. I know I'm a woman. I NEED A MAN. I THOUGHT I NEEDED YOU! UTAMU P• 0. cl w v 0 ]\ tl c

T~~ Delpllie · society is. nqw a~cepting-•nomiJ'iaii!lils for spring induction~. J)elphics is an honqrary ·Qi'- gani.zlition which .re£ogni~~· students wbO have made outstanding c«intril:n~til!lll! · ~o extta- cJirl'iclilar life: at Union . ' u Which ofyou will stop the vent ofhearing when loud Rum our speaks?n · · . , W. Shakespeare At the regular 11genda· meeting Tuesday n!ght, it was decided :that the .next Steering •Committee Meet- ing would be held Thursday, :January 30 at 7:00 P.M. in the West College Library. . . Wednesday, January 29, 1975 35 cents COllege ·.studies Status of Women Action May Be Taken On tters by AUSON JAMESON first group to represent so many : wemen. As Mary Vetterling says, · \Is Onion -a coed school or,\ as · \lt)s women working for the .•. ' Dean Mark· Smith says, \Is it a interests of all of the women in. ·. male college with women in it?\ the college community,\ This will . There are . a great many people be one ef the Commission's . who think that thtf latter is the case . and who want . to (:hange greatest strengths. things. As a result of this f,eeling, Unfair Treattnent the President's Commission on ihe feeling that women have the Status of Women was not. been treated fairly at Union · instituted recently at Union. dates 6ack to before the school The Cominission CQnsists of began to admit women as fourteen women, elected as students. Differences in the representatives from the following vacation time allowed men and groups: faculty, administration, women ernployees with the snme secretarial and clerical, -n.umber of years of service is. one maintenance, students, nurses and' example of a variation in the way faculty wives. Different women~s men and women are _treated. groups have existed and still do Susanna Miller sees one purpose exist on campus,. but this i$ the of the President's Commission to --'---~..;......~.,...._-_. _ _.,.,..__. .. _. · · be a vehiCle for people- with a problem such as this, but who 0 . ·r· ···e·. n·tatl·o·. ·n '7·5· .· don't know where to· address if. · ·. . .. . . . . . . .• ·. ·· · · .. Dean Smith says that he has been Apply for the· Orientation shocked by the inequalities Committee now. The committee concerning W<Jmen's o.ppertunities is responsible for pl1uming the :at Union. An obviou8 example of Dean of who expressed concern various- activities for the discrimination based on sex is the incomirig freshmer.r and transfers. difference in the athletic budgets ;...,. _ _.......,., 0 ~ve,_r ..... -:th:--e~· ·..:::ejj:..fJc:...ec_t._.s .... o~n-.-s...,.tu\\\d\\e_n ... l~({l_..·e_o..:::.f_s .... q:..u_,a_t_t,...er...,s_' _r...:..lg:...h .... t...,s._...~~ ~~~~:~:tf~ :;:~;~r:r ~:£:;:~1E~:~!l~~~:· rWOive-POin't commuters, transfers, food, etc. the men's basketball team is fully • Positions ar:e ·also available for funded. f>roblems such as these G . d • R t two assistant chairmen. have been unresolved for too . . .· ra ·lng·_·.· . e urns Applications are available at long. Student Activities and. should be The President's Commission on· by JOHN SCHEER returned by FRIDAY, Jan. 3'L . the Status l)f Women .grew out of On Thursday, February 13, the Come o_n!, Get involved in active women's groups on All College Senate, composed of somethi'n{! which will not onll' be campus. One of these w~s a group students, faculty members and ben~fkial to incoming students of faculty women who had been administrators, will vote on a. but to you as welL In planning holding infotm.al weekly meetings proposal to alter the grading the program, oppor.timities exist since Fall Term. They discussed system at Union. In a complicated where ideas can be put into problems expetienced by the series of events last year, a similar rrractice. All that is needed' is iJ women in their group and became 1 d· d h 1 \ · f . ·f· th. \. bl pro.posa was passe · an · t en willingness to DO IT! aware < 0 5 1 ~ me do ' · pe yro ... ems . resd nded due to overwhelming O;i;nim . on anue on age ;;, · · The Ha:l·e House Massacre ' ' . - ' watch as contestants slam the beer, the fables and therr_~selves. by PETER SOBOL Thank God for the few far- seeing geniuses that we are fortunate to have on this tundra, this desert of imagination called the Union Campus. Are we bored? Do We feel that we are ,Jacking recreational pastimes? Say not so! Last week, a ,new and altogether charming way to pass the time was. initiated by the sponsors of the Gluttony Championship Which was held iri; of all places, 'Hale H-ouse. It makes any normal man pause and reflect on his own inadequacies. Who would have tho.ught to hold a gluttony contest in one of the more stately and dignified rooms left on this campus? But where else left on this campus does one have the opportunity to destroy antique furniture? All those present at· the contest should be con·gratulated on the almost total destruction of three· or four o( the old cherry tables whi_ch used to reside in Hale House. These relics - have been replaced with folding tables cevere.d with much cheerier red paper tablecloths. But what fun it was! And what fun it can continue to be. Furniture smashing could become the thing Continued on Page 6 student opposttton. Mark Smith, Dean of students, presented the original proposal. It will be voted on this time in a modified fornl. 'fhe proposal as finally amended proposes that uThe grading system be changed to include :plusses and minuses for all grades except F. That the plusses and minuses shall appear on official academic records, reports, and transcripts and shall be used in grade.,point•average computation .. Effective as soon as possible.\ Last year's student opposition has not deterred the proponents of the plan from re-introducing it in the Senate. In fact Dean Smith, who has expressed little faith in student opinion .polls on such topics, has explained that . regardless of student sentiment the measure should be p·assed. In explaining that a new grading system would alleviate the overly comp.etitive atmosphere at Union, Smith said that a plus-minus system would \thin\ the •bartiers between grades. He sees the present system as disadvantageous to the B+ student who has llo recourse in. the \inflexible\ system other than .accepting a B. By changing to a system pf plusseS' and minuses, Smith' feels that the B+ student will be justly . rewarded and that the barrier between a B+ and an A- will not be as insurmountable as that between a B and an A The proposal has faculty support and is seen as an aid to faculty in determining grades. Faculty members see great inequali~ies i·n the present system and believe that the 12 point approach Would be a more just eva1uafion of students. When the question of the proposed change's ·effect upon < ontinued on Page 4 by JUDY DEIN Continuation of student's privilege to claim squatter's rights on their present rooms is being discUssed by the Housing Committee. This committee, headed by D!lbbie Kilgus, Director of Housing, and consisting ef several administrators, Resident Advisors, and any interested stt.Jdents, came into existence on the recommendation of the .. Administrative Staff Subcommittee on Student Morale and the Quality of Student Life.\ This report was issued on October 18, 1974 and a decision must be made concerning squatter's rights by next term. Any procedure decided upon will by implemented this spring for next year's housing. Administrative Decision The final decision concerning the fate of squatter's rights will be made by the administrators on the committee. Dean Smith, a member of the committee, claims that student opinion is being considered, but also stated that he is looking for quality arguments for or against the abolition of squatter's rights. He says that the committee will not be impressed with massi·ve outpouring of student opinion unless cogent, well,thougli.t out arguments are presented. Squatter's Rights Harmful The administrators on the Housing Committee seem to feel that squatter's rights perpetuate a very harmful ideology, termed ••.proprietary attitude\ by Dean ('ontinued on Page 3 New Aid Deadline Joseph Maras, Qirector of Student Aid, wishes to remind · ~tudents of the following points relevant to financial aid awards: A number of developments that ha,:c occurred recently require a change in· the time schedule for applying for financial aid for the academic year 1975-76. All applications for financial aid for the 19.75-76 academic year must be filed with the College SCholarship Service oy ]\larch 1. 1975. I he f orrns will be · available at the office of Student Aid in Mid- January. Further announcements on this will be '1Tlade through the '· \.arious campus media. \eglecting to file the application by March 1, 1975 could jeopardize your being considered for renewal of aid by the Committee on Student Aid. r··-·--· . .. .., I SENIORS I , Time to order gradqa.ion I announcements- place your <~rder with~~: Mart~ in the II 1 ~tud:!lt Actlv1ttes Office.

· · The l)elphic Society l$ l)ow accepting- nomin:(dioils for spring ind.pctions. Delplti«;s is an honQi'lli:Y or- ganh:ation w<hi·~h recognizes· students who have ~t~ade i;lut$tandi,ng contributions . to extn- Ciiiriculiir. life 11,t Union uWhich ojyou will stop the vent ofhearing l'Yhen loud Rumour speaks?,, · _ , W. Shakespeare At the regular agenda meeting Tuesday n!ght. it was decided !hat the next Steering Commiltee Meet- ing !YOUid be held Thursday, January 30 at 7:00 P.M. in the West College Library. Vol. 104~ No. 1'2 Wednesday, Januarv 29, 1975 35 cents College· Studies Status of Women Action May Be Taken On tte.rs by AUSON JAM;ESON \I~ Union a coed school· ot, \as Dean Mark Smith says, ''Is it a· male college with women in it?\ There are a great many people who think that the latter is the case . and who want . to change things .. As a result of thls feeling, the President's CCirilmissioit on the Status of Women was instituted recently at Union. The Commission consists of fourteen women, elected' as representatives from the following groups: faculty, administration, secretaria.I and clericaL maintenance, ~tudents, nurses and faculty wives. Different women's groups ·have existed and still do exist on campus, but this is the first group to repres·ent .so many women. As Mary Vetterling says. \I tis women working for the interests of all of the women in . the coll~ge community.\ This will be one of the Commission's greatest strengths. Unfair Treatment The feeling that women have not. been treated fairly at Union dates 6ack to before the school began to admit Women· as . students. Differences in the vacation time allowed men anci women employees with the ~arne · · . DUfll~r of years of service is one example of a variation in the ·.vay men and women are _treated. Susann~ Miller sees one purpose of the President's Commission to ~-------------------_... be a vehicle for peopl'e' wi.th a Orie-ntation'75 Apply for the- Orientation Committee now. The committee is responsible for planning the various- activities for the incomirlg freshmen and transfers. Interested people are needed to- handle social and student~faculty programming, publicity, commuters, transfers,· food, etc. Positions are also available for two assistant chairmen. problem such as this, but who don't know where to address it. Dean Smith says that he has heerr shocked by the inequalities concerning women'& op.p@rtunit-ies at. Union. An obvious exam.ple of discrimination based on.sex. is the difference in the athletic budgets for men's and·:women' sports. The,.:.,.__.. . ...,..:__. . ..,..,~,._...,.,-, .. -~~ .. --·--'·-'· ___ . ..., .. .___·....,·,':\\.-·...,.. _ _...,·~,.;._ ....... ...,...__.........,...._....-......_........,....._ __ ~r~;k~a:!~~~llr~~=~r:::~e~ 0 :~~: Twe ve--Point the men's basketball team is full¥, , ~~~~ed;,C:~o~~~~or~:: ~~/h:~ Grading·.·. Returns Applications are available at Student Activities and should be returned by FRIDAY. Jan. 3l. Come on!, Get involved in something which will not onll' be beneficial to incoming students but to you as welL In planning the progrqm, opportunities exist where ideas can be put into practice. All that is needed is a willingness to DO IT! long. The President's Commission on · the Status of Women grew out of active women's groups on camp.us. One of these was a group of facUlty women who had been hol«:ling informal weekly meetings since Fall Term. They discussed problems experienced by the women in their group and became aware of some of the problems Continued on Page 5 by JOHN SCHEER On Thursday, February 13, the All College Senate, composed of students, ··faculty members and administrators, will vote on a proposal to alter the grading system at Union. In a complicated series of events last year, a similar proposal Was passed and then rescinded .due to oyerw~elming The Hale House Massacre watch as contestants slam the beer, the fables and then_1selves. by PETER SOBOL Thank God for the few far- seeing geniuses that we are fortunate to have on this tundra. this desert of imagination called the Union Campus. Are we bored? Do we feel that we are lacking recreational pastimes? Say not so! Last week, a new and altogether charming way to pass the time was initiated by the sponsors of the Gluttony Championship which was held in, of all places, 'Hale H-ouse. It makes any normal man pause and refleci on his own inadequacies. Who would have thought to hold a gluttony contest in one of the more stately and dignified rooms left on this campus? But where else left on this campus does one have the opportunity to destroy antiq.ue furniture? All those present at the contest should be congratulated on the almost total destruction of three· or four of the old cherry tables whi}:h used to reside in Hale House. These relics have beeh replaced with folding tables covered With much cheerier red paper tablecloths. But what fun it was! And what fun it can continue to be. Furniture smashing co·Uld become the thing Continued on Page 6 student opposition. Mark Smith, Dean of students, presented the original proposal. It will be voted on this time in a modified fornl. The proposal as finally amended proposes that \the grading system be changed to include plusses and minuses for all grades except F. That the plusses and minuses shall appear- on official academic records, reports, and transcripts and shall be used in grade-point-average cotn putati on. Effective as soon as possible;\ Last year's student opposition has not deterred the proponents of the plan from re-introducing it in the Senate. ln fact Dean Stnith, who has expressed little faith in student opinion polls on such topics, has explained that . regardless of stUdent sentiment the measure should be passed. In explaining that a new grading system would alleviate the overly competitive atmosphere at Union, Smith said that a plus-minus system would \thin\ the 'barriers between grades. He sees the present system as disadvantageous to the B+ student who has no recourse in. the \inflexible\ system other than accepting a B. By changing to a system pf plusses and minuses, Smith' feeis that the B+ student will be justly re~arded and that the barrier betWeen a B+ and an A- will not be as insurmountable as that between a B and an A The proposal. has faculty support and is seen as an aid to faculty in determining grades. Faculty members see great inequalities in the present system and believe that the I 2 po'int approach would be a more just evaiuafion of students. When the question of the proposed change's effect upon Continued on Page 4 by JUDY DEIN Continuation of student's privilege to claim squatter's rights on their present rooms is being discus.sed by the Housing Committee. This committee, headed by D€bbie Kilgus, Oirector of Housing, and consisting of several administrators, Resident Advisors, and any interested st1.1dents, came into existence on the recommendation of the \'Administrative Staff Subcommittee on Student Morale and the Quality of Student Life.\ This report was issued on October 18, 1974 and a decision must be made concerning squatter's rights by next term. Any procedure decided upon will by implemented this spring for next year's housing. Administrative Decision The final decision concerning the fate of squatter's rights will be made by the administrators on the committee. Dean Smith, a member of the committee, claims that student opinion is being considered, but also stated that he is looking for quality arguments for or against the abolition of squatter's rights. He says that the committee will not be impressed with massive outpouring of student opinion unless cogent, well-thought out arguments are presented. Squatter's Rights Harmful The administrators on the Housing Committee seem to feel that squatter's rights perpetuate a very harmful ideology, termed .. proprietary attitude\ by Dean Continued on Page 3 New Aid Deadline Joseph Maras, Qirector of Student Aid, wishes to remind students of the following points relevant to financial aid awards: A number of developments that have occurred recently require a change in· the time schedule for applying for financial aid for the academic year 1975-76. All applicati.ons for financial aid for the 19.75-76 academic year mmt be filed with the College Scholarship Service by March t. 1975. I he forms will be· available at the office of Student Aid in Mid- January. Further announcements on this will be ·made through the \arious campus media. \eglecting to file the application by March I, 1975 could jeopardize your being considered for renewal of aid by the Committee on Student Aid. r--·---~ SENIORS. -·~ ! lime to order graduation I !announcements- place your I l nrder with Mrs. Marra in the II 1 Student Activities Offic~. . .... ._.......__ __ --............., ______ ---l

Paae 2 CONCORDIENSIS, Wednesday, January 29, 1975 \jiiiii 0 , iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii~iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiili~ l ~ ~ ~ Editors-in-chief .......... : .......... ~ ...... ~ Chris O'Connor Rob Mo.ndschein Culture Editor. .................................... P·eter f\ obol Features Editor .................................... John Scheer .Sports Editors .............................. Kevin Crawford. Bill Und~rhill Photo Editors ................................. Arthur Miller Ellen Ra:dack Danny McManamon Graphic Arts Editor ................. ; ........ ,Bob Johnson Contributing Lditors .... , ........................ Judy Dein Business Manager ............................. Jennifer Port National Advertising .......................... Steve~. Kelly Subscriptions Editor .............................. Lisa Tietz Staff: Dave Moskowitz, Lance Travis, Joanne Laufer, Rick Ford, Bill Plaus, Sam Hughes, Susan Scheinhaus, Ilene Binder CONCORDIENSIS is published every Wednesday by the\ tudent body of Union College, Old Gym Q.all, Schenedady, N.Y. ubHcations Office: The Jewish World Publications, 771 State St.,. clleneetady, N.Y. 12307 (346-2356). Entered in the Schenectady . ost Office as Second Class Matter. Subscription Rate 35 cen~ per opy. · $8~00 a year delivered anywhere· in the United States. what's· the story The New York Times took note of Union for the second time in the last few weeks in· Sunday's Sports section. That a school which was once described in the same newspa!fler as being located '~somewhere near Schenectady\ should receive such attention is ·undoubtedly a good thing. However, it is not a good thing that the New york Times seems to. knqw things that Lthe college community doesn't. The article in the Times , described a program developing at Union that might lead to an NCAA Division I championship by 1980. If such a program is the intention of the college, it is contrary· to all statements made. by Dr. Bonner atid Mr. Harkness on the subject. ' What is more. important here, however, is the question of procedure. Dr. Bonner has called for the independent small college, in the person of Union, to reassert itself. The nature of that reassertion is of critical importance to all members of the campus; and the feeling of the campus ought to be solicited before such decisions are made. Dr. Bonner stated in October that, \I want to see a lively campus, a new sense of community, an effective educational plan, and a caring atmosphere \ ... \ Unless and until Dr. Bonner begins to involve the campus in decisions of broad importance to the future direction the college will take, those words , will remain unfulfilled dreams. tau beta pi On Thursday evening, January 16, the Union College chapter of The Tau Beta Pi Aossociation initiated eight new members. Tau Beta Pi is a national engineering honor society which was formed in 1885 to offer appropriate recognition for superior scholarship and exemplary character. It filled an existing void by offering technical students the same type of acknowledgement as that afforded by Phi Beta Kappa to Liberal Arts students. Con4!ordiensis extends its · heartiest congratulations to the new !l1~mbers, who are: James D. Catena, Robert E. Deallenbach, John P. De Stefano, Lester M. Feintuck, Denise A. Locke, Michael E. Montgomery, Barry W. Roff and Cheuk-Fai Kam. you said it • Innocence tenurability, the process · would have been much different. Misinterpretation: I did say Ia rebutal en,c,ore that the senior members of the Editors, Concordiens~: English Dep-artment asked We were very distressed to see Sir: Professor Gado to reconsider; I the reactions · by two faculty In fairness to Physical Plant also said that the administration members to an ~article of personnel 1 feel that a statement asked Professor Gado to humorous intentions concerning made by Ms. Cashan in her reconsider. the experiences of two gitls on the artiCle, The Rape of Richmond, term abroad program. We do not should be clarified. The statement 'For purposes of clarification, I feel that this over-reaction was was to the effect that would like to emphasize that warranted. in light of the style of ·h k · h k hi h neither the senior members ofthe euse eepers ave eys w c the artiple.- Anyone who has open ali dormitory rooms. Until English- DepartmetJ,t nor the travelled abroad, including both fairly recently this statem~nt administrators were asking of us, has come across situations would have been correct, since Professor Gado to reconsider the in dealing with oU:~er peoples that this was a carry over from the initial. recommendation, but, can prove to be quite funny no days when maids cleaned the rather, to reconsider his decision matter what \cultural viewpoint;' students' rooms. However, to resign as Department ·(evidently in this case either b f h ·· 1 f · Chairman. ecause o t e potentia -or cc,>smopolitan or \provincial\) yeu susptcwn, mistrust and The English Department has .may happen to have. unsubstantiated accusations h M·r. ~L- eClerc's c~har.ge of the asked tne to underscore t ~ at . which can arise from situations of · G · 1 artt\cle be. m' ·g \sun·· p·Ie~ m· 1'·nded Professor ·'ado was s1mp y this nature, I established a policy . d 1 slDl· pering\ t's not~· J'ustift'ed. The · ptesentmg a · epartmenta' shortly after my arrival at Union · h h interests of ·a· o-eneral audience - ~ decisiOn and :t . at t ey were . \' College which has resulted in the unanimous in supporting him in wouid not _go along t'he lines of housekeepers having keys which this action, and, . later • in asking something that. one would have to open only the maids closets and . h' d · · tur. n in for Comp. Ed. credit.·, or · hirn to ;reconstder IS eclSlon to ~ the exterior doors in dormitones. on how high they thought the I · d resign as chairman . .. A so, In or er to protect Eiffel Tower was. Rather, people maintenance .personnel from So that I can ~nd this letter on would like to hear about the more potential accusations and a pleasant note, I should like tp unusual experiences one might innuendoes, a policy has been thank~ you for the careful ;md have abroad. established which requires them thoughtful article on the Library. The journalistic style used in to work in pairs, during vacation Willard F. Entemim both this article and the other periods when it is necessary to be ProvoSt article that ~ appear·ed in in vacant dormitories. These Perspective on the term abroad policies were in .effect prior to the· program tends to cultivate more. Christmas vacation period. 1 bl• oo. d.e.a•l interest. If Mr. LeClerc was up in might add that Physical Plant a ~ arms over the \simple minded replaced three doors and .repaired simpering\ of the article then he six locks that were damaged Editors, Concordiens~: ought to embark on. a caltl.paign . during the Richm<?nd br~ak in. 1 fail to see the reason behind to expunge Concordiensis of 'Obvi·ously · these acts were the big uproar over the article by many of the articles that appear perpetrated by persons without \Lucy and Viv\ in the last week's in it (i.e. ''The Lost Finger\ or keys. ~ issue ofConcordy.I spent this past \Nixon -Chief Strongbow to fill -Based upon my observations of. Fall Term in Reimc;:s; enj'oyed it key positions at Uni,on\) Mr. maintenance staffs at other LeCl t · h \ t k this immensely and had many ·ere seems o ave · a en institutions l personally feel that experiences similar to those article personally. It is obvious, Union College is indeed fortunate that· th tt' l' 1. merely a recounted by 'Lucy and Viv'. I · e ar c e s :. ·. . to ha,ve a group of such loyal, think such is only natural when discourse on the experiences that dedicated and conscientious one is transplanted in several, h~pp~ned to happen two ~yople Physical Plant f;!mployees .. It is . · houi:s into. another culture. lt is ~ while m France, t)lat c~pi'Cl ~ave unfortunate thai ~ tliey ·never perhaps ironic to see just who has happe~ed anywhere wtth mm~r receive all the credit due them for been overreact.ing in this matter. I alterauons. ~s for ~r. Leqerc.s their many good deeds and that have mailed the article and charge of ra~ts~ _the ~nlyway this they all too often are unjustly responses to the editor to my coul~ be J~tl!ted was though criticized for the misdeeds of French family for their opinion -~ucy and . V~v s st~tement. ~hat others. and somehow I do not believe Innumerable Algenans solicited W. Stone, Jr. they will he offended. They once them.For if I say~ h~ve bee~ 'DirectOr, Ph;ysical Plant told me that the American 'trait' robbed by Puerto Rtcans and 1t correcting Editors, Concordienstii: Normally, I would not spend my time or use your space correcting misquotations and misinterpretations in ConcordieJW~. However, 1 have received so many telephone calls questioning me about the quotation alleged to be mine in the editorial ••dead end,. that I shoUld appreciate your using this letter as clarification. The quotation was taken from me over the telephone; it was not checked with me before printing for accuracy. Normally, this would pose no problem, but the reactions of others do inspire me to ask for clarification. Inaccuracy: I did not say that the recommendation regarded the tenurability of a faculty•member. It did not, and if the issue were Attention! ConcOI'diensis will hold elettionsv for the position of editor-in-chief on Monday, February 10, from 8:00p.m. to 10 p.m. All students are eligible to nan, but only students wllo have worked for Concordienstii in the P!ISt two terms are eUgillle to vote. All interested candidates should submit statements of policy intent to Concordiensis, care of . Student Activities, by Moriday, February 3. they admired most was our ability indeed happened, am I a racist? to Iaug~ not only at others; but at The scope . of this ~ord could, ourselves as well. Apparently the though. aga_m_ b~ attnbuted to the roles are reversed in this instance. style. Also It IS rrnportant for one I will lay very strong odd,s that te ~onsider in ~he context of the there will be at least two people article t-he difference . between laughing in Rennes while several humor, sarcasm; and truly others at Union College are vicious statements. taking themselves entirely too Messieurs LeClerc and seriously. Thomas, those two .crusaders against provincialism should be Sincerely, more thoughtful before making Kathy Hughes ' 75 accusations. Indeed, what would Ia rebutal, have been their reaction if Lucy and Viv had gone into the issue of the anti-American sentiment that was-- encountered by the ~ term Editors, Concordienstii: abroad students. lt would have Memo: Re \The Last Timei Saw also been cutio'us to have seen their reaction if Lucy and Viv had not been on the term abroad .program, or bad been in another country. Paris .... \ Concerning Mr. LeClerc's and Mr. Thomas's responses to this article in· the January 22, 1975 issue of Concordiensis, we say, in the words of a great French scholar ... •'MERDE\. Sincerely, \ Herman and Sydney Charles He»Heman Peter Beriek bttetested in a career with ••••··· •••••••d. the Federal. Government? On Charles Newman Wahkon or Rensselaerville, N.Y., a founder and rtrst executive of the Alumni Counci1 of Uliioll College and for mike 'than 40 years a teacher, administtator,- · and trusteE Of tlte college and a . · friend and adviser of countle$5 Onion students, died Saturday night at IJis home. He was 91. · Mr. Waldron made many eontributiohs to Union . College. We are deeply sorry • to see his passinc. The college cannot sustain the loss of many men of Mr. Waldron's esteem. Friday, January 31, there will be a FEDERAL GOV- ERNMENT CAREERS DA \' . in ·strauss Lounge, Carnegie . Center from 1 O:Oir to 2:00. · Vario~ government agencies will' be represented including the Internal Re-venue Service, the Socilll Security Adminis- tration, the C()mumer Affairs · Office, several representatives from the Military, and a U.S. Ovil Serviet! Representative who ·can answer some of your' .questions about the Federal . Government. ., ,, .j .. · -~, ... ..... ~ .I ) J ~ ) ·• ..)

e y ,f g e >t s ,f s ~­ $ .t D \ r ll t 1 r 1 j . ~- 1 i > \ 1 f r r l ~­ t 1 t I· ., ,. .. l a 1(1 .L .I:. i ·\:' ) (• ) ·• CONCORDIENSIS, Wednesday, January 29, 1975 Page3 •j•• Y,~ •t:•:~•·:~;:. \'•:.!~• '•:•:~1!1 -.::;:,_~::?a ..... ;.~-· ~~ .......... ~~·-,.!!:•, \-):!.•'•:·~·. ..:_•:!1- .. ::!:~ ~!t '(~~·«~-~·.,.~--~': •& 0 8°~ 0 '•~~ ,'riM• ... '·~·~· '•:(!~, '<:!:·~~=~:·:··~··~ '•!f.!·~··:t:~f.\((!l..'•~:-=~:!~'lo:~_~•::!:~t. ~!'•::!:!,••»-._ •.:g.;.::; .. :•:::.~~ .. ·~~·~>:~; ~~~ .. •••~-=- ~~~~ ~~~• '•~ ... t.:_e•t ··~· ··~·· t,tb.,\'ot~~ .. ·!~\·. - ·~~~~ ·~~~:!:-:. ,,., ..... &~.:~ t·~~,&_', •• rq_..,;e 1 '.:. ~~~-- t.._~,j, ~· •t!e!t t'•'t ..... ~.~i'i:!.~--.:!.•t ...:...•$ ·.~ ... 0 tt ··-·~··='«!· ~·· -.:;.. .. ~e!:~~\igt • I L--o, • la_~...f&. ~\1'\0~· e,: ··i!•o -.:t:•• 16':,. •:to:•, · : .. - ...... 0:Y• ~.,- • • We · ~ .. o ~if•~• • ·• ~~~~ ...... .,._..., . ~. 'i•if'e •,•(hi!\ ... J:t.~ ret. •• -w. lh · ·'~•'• • • ,,•, .. ....,,•. ''•'•· .._,,, 'iOa .. •,•,•t '••;,•, ff•'t'@ '•'•'• '•'•'• ca~'• ~ .. if, '4i\'•'• •'•'• i'•'• '\'• • Wt 'il•'• .~.,-..: 11 \\?;• .. o• • ..._'fi':l' . •. ~-- - . ~ ... - . . - - ~~ .?)· A. ~- · · • o· · ·1· · ~# ~ · •.. ·. ~arrot 7 s . . 1 emma ~ '*~: b B\ll H ~- :~~:: y · 1 . . enson . ~ ~ . . = . ~ ~¢~ In the lanq of Doe there once lived a carrot because they were so small and squishable, also.\ ~ ·.~~: named Lump-·lUJllP·· Now Lump-lump was by no extremely sensitive about their status. They were \That's true. Umm, may I ask you a question.\ ~ :::~J means your basic ordinary carrot and so we tell even more intense then the carrots. So Lump- \Yes.\ ~:1 -:;:-· • - • • • > r;s.) :~.:;:: h1s. tale. lump retreated to his friends, believing in his \How long were you watching me?\ f· .,_ ::=::;~ Like most carrots of the day, Lump-lump grew naivete, that all peas behaved like those he had \Well I was out for a stroll and I heard ~ ~ ~ ::··~ up on a farm. As a bo;Y, he grew fast and strong. met. someone sobbing, I came over and you were • ::~::~ He received numerous compliments from his Lump-lump continued to enjoy his life in the sitting. here cry· ing, You didn't even notice me. ~~ ;~~ tenders and inspired more than a few jealousies pressure cooker but as each day faded into simple Finally you fell asleep and I sat here waiting for ~ ~=: . among his peers. His color, a bright orange-red, · memories he grew more and more dejected, He you to awaken. I though you might want ~~-$ ::t~= betrayed' his superiority over his duller looking realized his end was near. He began to take walks someone to talk to.\ ~~i ~ companions. Every had to admit that someday by himself.v One day, after strolling a long time \No l doubt it would prove worthwhile.\ :~~ •.•• .,. Lump-lump would make an el\cellent addition to but n.ot going anywhere in partic'lilar, he sat \And why not?... ~:: :~.:-. any meal. down ip an isolated section ofthe cooker. Lump- ••oh don't you see. I'm going to die and so are ~f· \li~ .· . .. . . . . =-·~ :·:.£: . The days passed rather quickly (carrot days are lump began to daydream as lonely carrots often you and there is nothing we can do about it.\ $,\*; . ~·~ much shorter than human ones) and soon the day do. He dreamt of all the carrots and peas wasting \Bp.t there is,\ Aspy .cried in a voice that forced §\- ~- arri;ved when all the carrots were to leave the their days in the cooker competing and battling Lump-lump to turn and stare. ~ ~ farm and find their pla_tes in .life. ~ut he!orethe so they could be the sweetest tasting vegetables. \What do you mean?''· he asked, ~~i ~~~: carrots could completely fulfill theu . dutres they He smiled. They were fighting to die, but they uncomprehending. ?~ ::.:::~ had to spend time in the all-'important pressure had been dead ever since they entered the \Leave escape!\ ;::'#, -~ cooker. Supposedly, by doin .... g this. th~y .w.ould pre~ure cooker. Then Lump•lUII\P thought of his \But I can~t; my duty, my responsibilities to :~:~ :·.~::: emerge at the very peak of the1r mdtvrdual friends and he grew sad. They had shared so everyone.\ ~·~ ~=~~ abilities, ready for consumption, So it was <me many great times together, but now they were to \Listen to me. Your' first duty is to yourself, to ~ -1 human evening Lump-lump, _after -a long, tiring die .and hi~ friends accepted their fate without do what you feel is right. If others believe they *=~ ~ journey from. the f~rm 7 • found himself in the question. But Lump-lamp did not want to die, must allow themselves to be swallowed up and ~ ~ cooker. H~ dtd not hk~ 1t. All the other carrots yet he saw no other way .. He started to cry, slowly forever forgotten, so be it! But you cannot allow ~~ 4':. were pushrng and shovmg as they attempted to at first but then with such despair that he lost all others, whether they be your tenders or fellow ~ ~#. reach the .spot in the cooker where the heat and energy and cried himself into a deep sleep. carrots determine what is best for you. Tell me, E$~: ~~ ·pressure ~o.mbined to inst~ll in the carrots those It was not until much later that Lump-lump what do you want to do more than anything else?\ ~ ~ taste quahti.es most attractrve to humans. Carro.ts awoke. And when he did he was taken completely \Well Lump-lump smiled, \I guess I would ~ ?J..(. that.grey.r .up together were beating, gouging and by surprise. Sitting neJCt to him was the greenest, like to travel from farm to farm entertaining ~i · ~~~ · huttmg each other. sweetest little pea he had ever seen.. everyone with my stories. I have a pretty good .:f· . H . y~ ~~.;,:: . Now Lump-lump thought all this sad as well \ 1, I saw you here and thought you might imagination you know.\ ::~=·: W~ as dumb. Many times he dreamed of abandoning_ want some c'ompany. My name is Aspy\ she \So do it then.\ ~= ~~ the pressure cooker. Hut he thought. of the folks eXplained in a light, bubbly voice. \Just like that?\ ·~ ~~ bac~ on the fa~m. a~d the time and energy they Now. L~~p-lu~p, still half asleep a.nd fea:tul \It ·won't be easy and you may get caught. But -~ .~·: sacnficedenablmghrm to become the tasty carrot . that th1s httle pea may have ·caught h1m crymg, you must try. Because Lump-lump, before you ::··i; ~~:~: he w.as. So Lump-lump never attempted to escape co~pletely forgot his ~manners and replied in a can ever think of yo-urself as doing right in other ~: :=:::~: · and resigned himself to his eventual fate. But he · rather curt voice, \What are you doing here.\ people's eyes, you must do right in your own ~: :~~~: was determined not to betray hi~ simple, honest~ \I was just watching you,\ she replied calmly. first.\ ¢; ~:::$: character and behave like the other cutthroat \Do you always spy on people .like this?\ Lump-lump said nothing. He was not sure ~4: ~~~ carrots: . . . \I wasn't spying. I must go no~: Goodbye.\ . what Aspy meant, yet he knew now what had to ~~ :\$-;: So fmdmg a few carrots who felt the same way Lump-lulflp, startled and r~ahzmg he had been be done. : • .-~ :~: ·he did, Lump-lump passed his days in. the .cooker . quite .rude called to her to return. He sensed \You are right Aspy. I must escape. But how? ~<~ ~~~: living a life true to himself. He and his friends something. in this pea thatt he did not know or When?\ · - ~ · ~ ~::~:: enjoyed great times together,. doing aU those understand but wanted to learn. \Lump-lump 1 am leaving tonight. You can ~~.: :~-f ilifngs carrots like to do. They frolicked and sang \Why should I talk to you,\ she demanded. come with me if you choose.\ ,. ::! ~l: many a night away. They often sat around· and . \I'm sorry for the way 1 acted. You startled me. \I will.\ #:: :=::£: exchanged stories. Lump-lump was best at this, I usually don't behave in that m·anner.\ \Okay here is my plan .... \ ~ ~:.:: forever enchanting his buddies with romantic· \I would hope not, It's not the best way to gain ::t~: .li!·· - f . d' ,, ••• .;:· ~:·:~ tales: One evening, Lump-lump, .overcoming· h.is · nen s. (:::>: ~~:; shyness visited the other side of the cooker where . \Well actually I don't have many friends And that is the tale of Lump-lump and Aspy. ::~, ~:: the peas dwelt. He wa:s quite excited, never among the peas. They scare me so, th.e way they No one these days knows if they ever escaped. At ::~.:~ ~¢:: having met any. But he came away depressed an carry on, so vicious and crazy sometimes.\ le~st the old gentle carrot whp told us the story ~;:: =~:::\3: disillusioned. He found the peas he encountered, \Yes I know, many of the carrots are like that said no one does. . . ~::·~: •· - ~ •. ... .•;,;,-. ~N• N.• .. ~·\\~' ·~·~~ ~·~·~· • ··~~!.!: .•tl•.!_., '~9'·• ~.! ... _ • '•\' ....... '.!•'• •.•.~ ._~'•'•'• •..-.!. -.•.• ._ •• ~~ ·~•.!.'• '•'•\• •,.!•'• '•'•'• ~.·.•· •1..~ ·•·•~ ·~ •• ••e:f!_ . •·!!~ ., ... ~ 4t;_\t!t '•'•'• ~ e-.,v. '•!(•, '~::t!!e .. ;:~, !tt-!._ ..,-:•:!. ~:•:•, •·:~' •f!~=t·~:·~ 'f.!•, • .. :o ... ~:~· , \(!:• •.:.~ .. '~~·!~~··:'!. .•.-_~~ •• ••'I!• ... ···~ ~.;. 'e!3 ~-· •.-•,•. -;!,;.._, ~ ••••• -•,• •, •a!-.., ~ 'e!i!• ... :..!i•• ~.~~ ••!6 - •t.•~• •.•,\'!• ...... , ... ~·~·· •.•.e.,.,. •..,.,•._ •.! •• ·~~ - ,,. • '• ••• •,•,•: •:.-~f.t.\'ta:.• ·~!• ·~ •& .. :• ••• fi.ittl) •;-..-.-: •.-:;r. •!rb. ~ • ,:.-..-C!.,:f~;,. ·~.-.. ,, •• !. -w. ----. •!i • ..: :·:~:....:;:-.\-.'$:.. ·::.. .. ~: t$:o:•-:·:a:·;::=:o:~~··::.::~ \·==~~\'=~::-.·-:::.~. ?.:;::.;~~.;:.. -::=:·:·9-:-:··:.~:~-:~.--::::-. ·: .. --::::.:·:~··~:: ... ··::::.:•::-: ..... ::::~ • :-.··::::- .. ~::·~··::;:-..*•:k .. o;:.::.~·:x .. w~li:o. v;: •• ··?=·· ... ;.:.. •!•). e~:·.~';e). !1'.,.: ...... 11):~·. • )oe;;-~.,0 ··~>. ·;:;:~ .... ~ ·-~teo~ ~:e:-. . \~ . ~.,·~~:::. -•~ .. Squat In Vain (\ ontinued from Page I \ Smith. According to Smith students began to think in terms of ·~my roont and my floor· and my friends.\ He feels that this attitude leads to the exclusion of many students who move into a rQom, or., ento a floor with aut knowing anyone else there. The tendency tQ (}~elude otnerst Smith feels, is bad for the .school and harmful to society in general. While Dean Smith conceded that squatter's tights may not b!} the cause' 'of the \proprietary attitude\. However, he feels that the school cannot perpetuate such a \harmful attitude 1 ' • . Both Kilgus and Smith cited examples of rooms or in some. cases floors ganging up to exclude a student. While these cases are few in number, Smith. and Kilg1,1s feel that are quite destructive experiences for the individual student. Other Problems Another problem caused by squatter's rights is ti:lat freshman often lack housing and are placed with an upperclassman who claimed rights on the rooms a:nd who do not particularly want a freshman roommatt;.' .. Also, students who take a term abroad still have. the right to claim squatter's tights which leads to having freshmen move into a room for a term and be forced to leave when the student returns from his I her travels. Students Object Several students on the Housing Committee feel that squatter's rights should be continued. They claim that people · put a lot of work into their rooms to make it ''home\ and shouldn't be forced to leave after a year. . They also argue that the \proprietary attit~de\ is not caused by squatter•s rights and will 'not · be eliminated by the abolition of these rights. Coll$equently, they feel that revoking squatter's rights Would just be a token move, and would not solve any problems, just create new ones. Alternati-ves Offered · Total· abolition ·df squatter's ~ rights is not the only charige being - considered. Squatter's rights on dorms; where a student can choose to remain in the dorm and then would go into a lottery for a I:Oolll appears to be the most likely means of selecting rooms fot. next year. I P'lacerllent Interview Schedule Date Thursday Jan.30 Friday 1 Jan. 31 Thursday Feb. 6. Company Positions open Maiors :\at. Corrtm. Bank & Trust Mana_gementfr. Program Liberal Arts, Eco., in Banking Math FEDERAL GOVERNMENT CAREERS DAY- Strauss Lounge, 10:00 a.m. -2:00p.m. Representatives from various Oovernment Agencies available for questions and discussion OPEN HOUSE· Procter & Gamble Distributing Co. Procter & Gamble Mfg. Company LUIGI'S REST·AURANY . . · SPECIAUZING IN Mark.;:ting Tr. Prog. leading to careers in management Any Major Production supervision, Pla'nt 1111 engineers engineering, R&D manufact. interests, Math, Eco .. Chern .• Jfhysics FOR SALE Sleeper Couch $25 393-l233 ltc21ian .. American Food :1125 :sARRm ST. SOENECTADY Dl6-97 .U -E;njoy Sizzling S~Hks onf:l Chop~ Vi/It Our Cockt~il Bllr

.Page 4 CONCORDJENSJS, Wednesday, January 29f 1975 al:l about tenure T-enure decjsions are made after an extensive investigation .of a professor's contriliutions in and out of the classroom takes place. Yet despite the supposed thoroughness of the ad hoc committees on tenure, U niort. is continuip:g to lase some of its best faculty due to denial gf tenure. One means .of correcting this serious mistake already exists in the ·department chairmen's lists of things to do, yet' it continues to ·be ignored. The .means to which we are referring i~ the review_ of a professor's wo:k after being at Union for three years. In view of comments received, the department chairman is:;· supposed to offer constructive criticism to the new faculty member. .. Many claim that no-one can be taught to teach, and therefore the effect of any suggestions offered to a new. professor will always be rather limited. Although this may be true in certain cases, one must also consider the faculty member who, upon receiving reasons given for his denial of tenure, exclaimed that he was really surprised, and had been totally unaware of some of the student's unfavorable criticisms of his teaching. This faculty member was also considered outstandingly bright and perceptive by some of his other students. Surely a few suggestions along the way cou!d have helped him improve his lectures, assuming he considered the suggestions to be improvements, of -course. At present, the tnethod and completeness of the review of individual professors is left to the discretion of the department chairmen. What we are proposing is that a uniform system of evaluation be created, whereby after several years of teaching a survey is sent out to some of the professor's students. Questions similar to those asked by the ad hoc committees would be asked to help determine the faculty member's strong and weak points. The department chairman would be, requir:ed to call the profes_sor in for a pri\late conference where the comments received would be discussed. We. also strongly. advocate that professors be required to hand out a questionnaire at the end of each term, asking any questions which they would find most helpful in improving and evaluating the course. While the reviews we are calling for would obviously not be as complete as that done by the tehute committees, ·we do feel that they would help eliminate dismissals on totally unexpected grounds. Also, constructive criticism should lead to some more exciting and valuable classes which should be common in a· small school which boasts of its close student- faculty relations. It should also be common in a. school which claims that education rs of utmost importance. Not only do professors deserve to be aware of how their teaching is being viewed by students, and how effective they are in the classroom, but students should also be able to expect teachers to be concerned with their classroom performance, and do their best to make classes :riore informative and interesting. The Editors ---- Grading Dispute---- Continued from Paj!e 1 graduate and professional school applications was posed to Smith, he dismissed it as not being a major criteria in the decision of the faculty to support the measure. A student Senate member was quoted as saying \(Graduate school considerations) were not discussed much because the purpose of a ·small independent Liberal Arts college is not merely to feed people into ·graduate schools.\ Although S.mith voiced the opinion that student opposition would not sway his position (at FOR LIQUOR AND WINE Try Jake Lipstein's 464 State Street FR4-l888 1 - J DaYe's· M .. Sllop ..... (dowlllown Scbmcct&dy) the time it seems the rneasure will pass the Senate), he ex.pressed a willingness to hear reasoned arguments by students who wish to discuss the proposal with him. He said, \If a student comes to me with a reasoned argument for maintaining the .present grading system, 1 will re-evaluate my position and cast my Vote in light of the input I have received.\ THE FILM COMMITTEE presents THE LONG GOODBYE STARRING ELLIOT GOULD Feb. 1, 2 at 7, 9, 11 in SSOt6, 50 cents \1st rate suspense \ melodrama'' - Judith Christ 011 Allen Editor, Concordien,sis: Having just returned £rom the term abroad in France, I would :like to express my feelings of dismay and concern upo:n ·receiving the news that Associate Profess or Patrick Allen was rejected in his bid for tenure or tenurability. 1 am currently an English major, class of 197 6, and have known Pat since the fall of my freshman year. Having entered as .a History major, I was fortunate enough to have Pat for a course my first term at Union. Alt:hough tbe course was Colonial liter.ature, dealing with the likes of William Sradf ord, John Cotton, and Increase Mather which I am sure rnost English majors would agree is not the most exciting and stimulating topic of concern, Pat always managed to give it a little something that even almost made it enj,oyable reading. It was also lar,gely because of this course and the course I took from him the following term on Major American Novels that I decided to switch from the History to the . information through discussion he fQrces the student to think is far . more valu.a:ble than · about and respond to what· is publi~ng. being. said, and because of this l Professar Stineback's most have found that it is information important strength is also his not soon forgotten. cornmunicati()n wit'hst~dent$. He Outside of Class Pat has always is . v~ry . se~itive_ to student· been avail.llble to ,the students .contnbutl()n m class and he because he rightly ~dieves that a assigns . J)Fovo~ative .. but not · professor~s first responsibility'is to 1 hackneyed r~admg. ~ut of <:l~ss the student. Whenever 1 fiave Pr-ofessor Stmeback IS rece.pttve wanted to talk whether it be to personal interaction between about a cotrrse ~r the trials and professor and student. He is tribl!lations of academia in ~xeellent in: h~lJ?i~g students . t.o general, he has not only always Improve t'~eir wn~mg style and 1& been around but also wilfing to the .only profess or 1 know, \:ho take a few minutes to devote full volunteers to read st~dents. fu:st attention to what 1 want to drafts bef()re they are _typed up . disca&s. As a res ~t of the above If Union College, were to lose thoug~ts, I 1m~lore tbe tenu~e Pat AUen, .. l feel' it wou'ld not only con:t~Httees to reverse theu be a great blow to the English .dectsJOns. P~ofessor Allen &nd Department, but to the coilege as ·_Professor. S~meback dest>rve. to a whole. What we mJJSt decide . stay -.at. U ruon.. If any . student now js whether Union College is supports. these . p~ofessors al.so, int€rested in a professor who has pleas~ ~ontact .m7 m order to stgn dedicated his career to the a petition test1fymg to .that fact., f h · f h . d. · · f ·h Lee Rimsky u. rt .enng o t e e. u.catum o t e (l. 02 · S . uth · r u . ·)·, student, or a professor who Q vo. ege; through his publicatiom can buil~ ' ·; an im,age for the college. For me the answer is clear. Sincerely, Jeffrey M. Gleason '76 Loug-hlin\ . English Department. by ERIC L. FOX MAN Pat Allen has a unique I have wondered for some time approach to teaching that one is S·. ·. ·t. ··.I·. ·n.e .. b· ·a• ··.c· k·. what tile pwpose of a cOllege is .. unable to find in any other . Ot, perhaps, who the college is professor. It begins with his for, who the primary benefiter~ insistence on being referred to on Editors, Concordiensis: are. Aware that the college a first name basis; which may be 1 am a junier English major community is composed of a few considered unimportant by some who has had the opportunity to diverse groups, and that th.e but is very effective in breaking take courses with both Professor college cannot exist without down the student-professor -Pat Allen and Professor. David relating to the outside, I see that baFriers that exist especially with Stineback. The nuroose of this the college must eXist for one of iacomin.g freshmen. From here he letter is to publicly express the followi~g groups: uses his exceptional talent of disagreement with the decisions 1) Faculty stimulating a discussion which that the tenure committees_ 2) Students often involves a majority of the reached concerning the 3) Administration class; a feat mo~t professors are tenurability of these two fine 4) Outside Public unable to perform. professoFs. To consider file 3rd and 4th What makes Pat's style of I understand that the criticism possibilities listed above, the teaching so exceptional is that he - of Ptofessor AUen is that he does ·college cannot exist ·for the sake is able to avoid the · straight . not. publish enough. This is a of 'the Administration. Their lecture approach which has been grossly inadequate met-hod of existence. is necessary for the proven by so many to he a failure, measuring this particular effective ('!) functioning af the and yet by manipulating the professor's worth. In class institution. Bur an institution discussion he is able to get across Professor Allen is enthusiastic cannot exist for the sake. of its easily as much about a novel as and knowledgeable abotif\ the own functioning. Institutions die can be learned from a lect.ure. material .and he is able to conduct because tlley cease to serve There is also a greal deal of class in an informal and student- anything b:ut themselves. They difference between what I have oriented atmosphere that few must productively work for learned from a Pat Allen course other professors at Union are able something els~; This·can be seen and a straight lecture course. The to attain. But it is out of class that with such an institution as difference is that when I learn Professor Allen shines his slavery; some are realizing this is something from a lecture course, I brightest. He talks to everyone, is true with the institutions of war, d() not really learn it at all. That involved in many different or blind technological progress. is, I often find myself activities, and generally shows One's raison d'etre cannot be self- mechanically: jotting down the tremendous concern and interest serving; ctmnot be self-c~ntered. information given by the for the students. l have had the The administration is too closely professor and then reviewing my pleasure of working with tied up with the essenc\ of what a notes enough to be able . .to Professor Allen in · the student regurgitate .what he has said on advisor program and I can the fina:l exam; afterwards personally attest to the time, forgetting whatever I might have effort, and\· commitment with learned from the course. This ·is which he helped orient the not the case however with Pat's freshman English majors. In my courses. By _giving out the ~pinion, this kind of contribution COUNSEJ,ORS: PhysicaDy fit, sailing, swimming (WSl), tripping, general. Adirondack Swim Trip Camp (Boys) 39 MDI VaHey Rd., Pittsford, N.Y.1453,4 An Astr_onomical Boutique Gift Shop ! 156 Jay St. Schenectady. Incenses • Oils e Candles Records • Jew& • Posters teather Goods • Clothing • Hats L11rge Selectiilh of Pipes and Papels Many Other Accessories Designed to Suit The Mind And Soul Continued on Pllge 5 !,••••.•••••.•••••~ ' .•• • There IS a •• . .,.,, . - \' ~. : ul •. erence... : : IREPARE FOR: o\ljr 3S years • • .MCIJ of experienctt • • . . . ,and 1uccess e . . . • OJ· ·· ·r· voluminous. home • • shJdY matenals • . . . • Ls·. A'f ·Courses that are •. • · ft. · :constantly updated :· : . G. -. 8 ·E· ··.:?mall-classes ,: : . • . . • . . Brook~n center • : ATGSB ~~J~ng';Y&: : Ill . weekends e : D\AT Complete tape : • . IIJtl· tacilitres for ..... c~·l:r·· :reviews 61 clas~ • ·• . Jessons ·and for use• e . . . . of supplementary • • ·ft·E·X matenals • : E·cF· M.-G · .. ~~sk:;~PI~s'~;ns : • · · · ~~ our ·Brooklyn • • · . . center • i NAT'L MED BDS : • THOUSANDS HAVE : : RAISED THEIR SCORES • • Branches irt Metro poi ilan Area : !ii{Ji i !Ill .··N : • EDUCATIONAL CENTER, LTD. : • TEST PREPAFI)rtiOit • • SPECIAliSTS SINCE 1938 8 : . . c.w/1 [212) 336-5300 . • • 151&}.5384555• [201JS72·sno : r\ 1.675 Easl16thSt.ree~ .... · . Brooklyn, N.Y. i'12l!9 .• ••••••••••••• •• f> $ . ~· ,, . J' ' 'l



Page6 CONCORDIENSIS, .Wednesday, January 29, 1975 ' BLITHER Lost at the DU party Saturday night: one dark brown leather jacket wi~h tan suede patches on the elbows an<J. a fleece lini11g .. No questions asked. Please help - I'm col<;!! Contact: George, 370-0738. * * * * Whoever has information concerning the hibachi that was removed from outside the West College Apt. Friday or Saturday, Jan. 24 or 25, please contact Art Just at West College or 346-9279. * * * * The Brothers .of Delta Phi along with the boys of the Schenectady Boys Home would like to sincerely thank you for your generous support of our annual raffle. The winners were: Ilene Binder (Union), Mr. Moran (NYC), Karen Canier (Boston), Mark Bennet (Union). Mrs. VanLoan (Lamont House). * * * * The Women~s Caucus will be meeting on Monday, Feb. 3 at 9 pm in 201 Carnegie. Topics to be discussed are .elections. the counseling center. and consciousness - raising groups. Please show your support. * * * * Professor John Kekes, Chairman of the ,Dept. of Philosophy at the State University of New York at Albany •. will lead a discussion of his paper entitled \Perennial Arguments\ on Thursday evl::ning, Jan. 30 at 8 PM in Humanities 213. Copies of the paper ate available for prior reading from Ms. Gleason in Humanities 212. All interested members .of the Union community are welcome to attend. * * * * Help Wanted: The Political Forum is currently undergoing a process of profound reorganization. All students who are interested in maintaining{\ program of high quality are urged to attend an organizational meeting this Thursday, Jan. 30 at 4:30 in SSIJS. * * * * Meeting to organize the film workship ~ Thursday, Jan. 30 in SS lounge at 4:30. * * * * Ski Patrol meeting, Thursday Feb. 6, at 4:30pm in Strauss Lounge. All members are urged to attend. * * * * Now is the time to sign up for Union's Fall Term in England, France. and Italy. See Professors Klemm, LeClerc, or Warde in HU 211 for details. * * * * The next meeting of the Student-Faculty Bridge Club will be held on Tuesday, Feb. II, at 7:45 'in the Ha:le House Upper Lounge. All bridge players are invited to attend. The results of the last tournament were: First Place: EW Warner and Desrochers, NS Pro~ Goodheart and Bacon. Second Place: WE Goodman and Spivack, NS Feintuck and Jacobsen. In the race for Player of the Year, the P.rofessors lead with 41.8 points apiece, followed by Pete Milman with 24.3 points. The \Bozos\ are a close third with 23.9 points each. * * *- * - - - The first meeting of the Jack Daniel's (Old No. 7) F.an Club - Union College Chapter, will be held this Friday Jan. 31 at 7 pm in the Fox House Lounge. At that time we will be electing officers, and plans will be made for our annual spring pilgrimage to Lynchburg, Tennessee. If you are unable to attend please contact Lem Motlow -\On guard until seal is broken\ * * * * Thursday night at 7 in Strauss Lounge there will be a meeting of the Union College PYE Club. Anyone interested in environment problems is invited· to attend, and new project ideas are always welcome. Those who are interested but unable to attend should contact Gary Lovett at 346-921 I or Paul Siegel at 370-6437. * * * * Parlez vous francais.? Seulement un peu? C'est bon! C<tme to the French Conversation Club. We meet every Friday between 3 ·and 4 pm at the Hale House dining area. Last week we sampled some vin rouge deL' Abbaye de Valmagn[. 1971. It was a good year. * * * * Students interested in off campus living within walking distance to class: · New three bedroom raised ranch house, tile bath, heated garage. plenty of study area .. large storage and rec room. basketball and tennis .court at door step, near Rupps, basic furniture and housekeeping supplies. Yearly rental: 75-80 per month per student. Contact: Mr. L. Zullo, 374-9807 after 3 * * * * China Slide Show: Holly Nelson who returned from a one month tour of the People's Republic of China this September, will show slides of her trip and discuss many aspects of life in China today. Thursday. Jan. 30. at 8 prn in SSOI6. Free. Sponsored by the Schenectady Friends. All IN THE FAMILY 123 JAY ST. Kitchen Open I 1:30 A.M.-10 P.M. Bud on Draft 346-9635 ••••••••••••••••• : ·Carlo's Pizza & : • h . I H • • Spa·g ett1 · ous·e : • • • Under New Management • : 461 NOTT ST. = : BIG N PLAZA = • 377-0082 • •· . . • OPEN 7 DAYS • • 5 PERCENT . = =-- DISCOUNT WI I. D. ·a ................ Reasons for a CoUege R.A. Switch As part of an effort to .improve ma'le-fern(l.le relations at Union, the R.A. Task force on Women is sponsoring the first annual Operation R.A.' Exchange. Continued from ~age 4 -~_ollege is, The college can't exist for the sake of itself, hence. not for the sake Qfthe administration. As f<>r_ the public - Any positive endeavor of the college will benefit the outside public. Research or study .reach the public dir~ctly, by application of its results, or indirectly thmugh ()thers using the rel!ults in their own respective studies (a direct consequence of the academic atmosphere produced by the cdlege community). The college also provides a place to which th~ society can look for learned people who can handle and solve society'$ problems. B~t the society cannot be the prime obj~tive for the existence of the college. The benefits to society are a necessary consequence, a positive side effect of the labors of the college while pursuing its goals. So, the .choice becomes twofold: 1) Does the college exist so that students may come .and partake of the academia that e~sts there?, or 2) Does the college exist to provide an environment where professorial research and study may be conducted.? The answers to both are yes. Both the students' learning and the professors' study are high in priority; and perhaps too close to compare. Certainly, the research can't be conducted today without the {monetary) support derived from the teaching .of the students. However. the teaching can be conducted without the research. But this doesn't mean one is more important than the other. I certai.n:ly won't make that judgment. Both can co-exist without necessarily placing them - on a scale of (mportance. Both ~n co-exist without being detrimental to the other. bich R.A. is asked to exchange his or her room with an R.A. of t.he opposite sex for a. period of three days (Th'titrs., Jan. 30 to Sat., Feb. 1). On Sat. night a patty .should take place between lt has been charged; and I feel .not unjustly so, that one reason for Professor Loughlin not getting tenure is that he has not published. So wbat! The research, the publishing can co-.exist with the teaching. However, the teaching can also exist in our community witho'Qt the need to publish.. It would be a sad, detr<imental mistake if tbe. tenure decision w~ based in any :part on Professor Loughlin not being • the two floor~. t>artial funding · \ill be supplied by Dean Smith'~ .. 11ffice. published~ · . Why this .insanity you ask, · \hen it's not· even near the end of . the term? Well the idea is this: lt . i·s apparent io us that a definite ~ lack of c.omm unication exjsts l have had the delight of being a student of Professor Loughlin. He has proved himself, to me and many othe~s. to be a competent, interested, fascinating, and capable instructor. His command of the sul>ject matter left nothing to be desired. His availa:bility, in and out of the classrooro, far surpasses many others (even some with tenu.re). That he has not published does not detract from his superior teaching ability. (Rather,. some instructors would be better if they left their research a little more, and got into the classroom.) · · betwe~n many of the men and · \\omen on campus. lt is our ~.:xpcctation that this exchange of R~A.s will help to begin the The student is a vital organ of the college, a major reason for the college to exist. To deny th<: student is to deny the very institution. of which he is .a member. Professor Loughlin's academic existence seenis to be dedicated to bringing something valuable, to giving of himself, to the student. Withholding tenure from Professor Loughlin for any rea8on denies the student; denies the college the right to exist. It is · a bad decision. It makes me wonder what the purpose .of a college is, or, perhaps who the college is for. J , . process of breaking down the harriers between them. If the ·. progr•am is successful it wi-ll bring · men into women's dorms <tn<! \l.omen into men's dorms. THE FILM COMMITTEE presents THE,LONG GOODBYE STARRING ELLIOT GOULD Feb. l, 2 at 7, 9, 11 in SS016,. 50 cents \1st rate suspense melodrama\ -Judith Christ . Hale . H.o use Fias.c·o \ ('ontinued from Page I to do at UColL What a way to meet new people in a relaxed and natwal atmosphere. Why. Union must have enou.gh old furniture around to last at least until the end of the week. Will portrait slashing be next? Or perhaps carpet burning? We wait in rapt ·anticipation for the next e·ntertainment break- through. LeVI.:S 721 ALTA MONT AVE. NO DELIVERY CHARGE WITH TWO PTZZAS . WI Dli.IVIII . 1JNT1L MI.,NIGHT CaD37~ Students, Faculty, Staff Orders are being taken for the ' 1975 Union Book To those people other than graduating seniors the book is. $5.00. _GET YOUR ORDERS IN TO MRS. MARRA (STUDENT ACTIVITIES)/ BY FEBRUARY 28. ~--~~-----~~--~~----~-------~-----~, 1 I wish to order . . copies of the Union Book at $5.00. I 1 CASH OR CHECKS WELCOMED! 1 I PLEASE MAKE CHECKS PAYABLE TO: I 1 Union College Union Book 1 I I Name: PRINTED) I I I I I I Signature: I I Bring this coupon with you of send With payment I '~-~-~~~--~---~-~~-~~-~------~~~-~~~ ·~· .. 'l.l ,,. • '\ . (\ • ('\ ~- .rt. \

I JVe on, 1 is ual 1ge of of ,to a ~en mg :h's sk. of It 1ite sts nd 1Ur of he he <:lt ... he ng n<! 't} if. .rt · \ '· CONCORDlENSlS, Wednesday, !anuary29, 1975 Page 7 ............ -, -----------·sports Woman · \Di'scouraged'' Last Tuesday night the Women's Basketball \Club~' {non- inter-collegiate) of Union College lost its opening game to Williams. While the score will be recorded elsewhere, it is doubtful that our frustration not only in losing, but in being forced to play under circumstances that are hardly conducive to winn,ing, will ever be understood unless we speak up now. volleyball, field hockey, tennis, cheerleaders, and basketball as well as several' intramural activities, and in the four years we have had basketball .for women at Union, we have not had the benefit of the sallie coach for more than one season. Greg Lyons fs in control of ma!ch against Kings Point. Union won match 33-9. There is no lack of interest in sports at Union among women anymore. Nearly twenty people came out for basketball and a:ll of them have stuck with it through five days of practice each week, including Sunday morning scrimmages. We are determined to compete and win -not merely to \keep in shape\ or to say we had· a team, nor to .satisfy those who demand success as proof of interest. Nevertheless, it must 'go on record that whatever victories we attain will be entirely dependent on our own initiative artd the moral support of interested students. Most of us played varsity basketball in high school where, even before equal facilities were required by law, the organization and the c:nergy :put into girls' sports was far superior to anything yet developed at Uni.Qn. Much of what we ask for sounds superfluous. But anyone who-has played on a competitive team knows the psychological impact of .. looking bad\ to your opponents .and doing a little ego- boosting at the same time. We felt that impact at Williams, where gids have been playing basketball for exactly the same time (4 years) and have now got warm-up jackets, Williams College uniforms, and matching Cc:,mverse shoes. They were psyched, and we were somewhat psyChed-out ~a definite. advantage for them W.restling 6-2 FRANCESC()ISGRO Led by undefeated· co-captain Bruce Freema11,' the Onion College wrestling team breezed past visiting King's Point 33-'9last Saturday; to up its r~cord to &-2, On Wednesday January 22, the Garnets hosted' a quadrangular meet. They (}Verpowered Dartmouth 33..:7, defeated Central Connecticut 24-12, and were· ~coreless against - powerhouse Springfield. · Freeman a five-year ME major is having the best season of his wrestling career here at Union. Las\ year he Was handicapped by prolonged illness but this season, grappling in the 126 lb. division, he has been his best. Other grapplers with outstanding -records are Tom Everett; Jash Salzman, followed by · Robin Bennett ~ and Jim Sutton. Co-captain Ever~U ·has a 6-1 record having dropped a close match against Springfield. Fresl;unan sensation Salzman, has the second. best record on the B--Ball9--2 ('ontinued fr()m Page 8 pla,yed even up as Union maintained its 10 poi·nt lead. Hamilton, with three Freshmen sta!1ers, began to get hot and knotted the score at 67-67 With 6!12 minutes remaining. As Coach Scanlon ex plained 1 ••n was anyone's game atthis point.\ As a team, Union shot 58% from the team. His lone loss was to Mulligan from Springfield, who was Section 2 · Champ froni nearby Saratoga. Freslunan Jim Sutton who brings to Union a 105-7-1 high school record, is having some problems. is· getting accl,J.Stomed to college wrestling. Nevertheless he has a 4-J record, . one loss due to an injury. Robin Bennet, also a freshman, is helping make the upper class division one of the best in recent years. He has a 3-2-2 record having wop his last three matches. The tearri is now without veteran Larry D'Agostino who is injured and will be out for the rest of the season. , Asked to comment on the team's performance so far, Coach Knu:U said that \overall the team is improving with ever-y match we wrestle'', and in the future, .. Union is definitely going to be a force to be dealt With.\ · · · Union appears home February 8 hosting WPl at 1:00, and the team visits RPI February 8 at 4:00. field and outrebounded the oversized Colonials \almost 2-1\. Leroy Kelly was phenomenal, hitting 11 of 15 from ,the floor, along with 9 rebounds, to lead aU scorer.s with 23. Right. behind Leroy was Gug)i'otta with 21 points and 8 rebounds. \'The backcourters each scored 16 points and Fisher hauled down lO bounds. Mody played an \overall fine flQor game\ handing off 10 assists and coming up with 4 or 5 crucial steas as well. Sports Shorts INDOOR SOCCER - Want to play soccer indoors? If you would come to the gym Tuesday nights from 9-ll and truck on up to the fieldhouse for Sunday night games 9-11 p.m. CO·ED VOLLEY BALL: Sign-up in the gym with Coach Knull by Wednesday, Feb. 5th, 10 p.m. The games will he played on Monday and Tuesday nights, 8 .games plus playoffs. It's open to all full time students, faculty and staff. All games will be played in the fieldhouse. UP•COMING EVENTS: Sat., Feb. 1, Platform TeRnis,. II a.m., single ·elimination; Fri., Feb. 7, deadline for mixed doubles Badminton; Sat.,. Feb. 8, Weight lifting contest alumni Gym 3:30, by weight class; 'Thurs., Feb. i 3, \boxing tournament by weight class; Fri., Feb. 14, mi:xed Doubles Badminton, 7:00 p.m.; Sun., Feb. 16, Lacrosse Shooting contest, Fieldhouse, 1:00 p.m.; and Sun .• Feb. 23. Snow Winter Olympics. WOMEN~S BASKETBALL- The Women wi11 open their home schedule Friday; Jan. 31 in the· Fieldhouse at 4:00p.m. Their opponent will be Schenectady Commuhity College. The Dut<:hmen !lre coached by Shelia Weaver . . WOMEN'S LACROSSE: On Feb. 14. 4:30 p.m. in the Block U room of Alumni Gym, there will be an or.ganizational meeting of all wishing to participate this Spring . . RAFFLE ..... Hoping to raise close to 200 dollars, members of the wrestling team have been selling raffle tickets for the past three months. A 10-speed English bike and sixty dollars worth of alcoholic beverages will go to the lucky winners. The drawing will be held February 12 during the Colgate home match. · The money will~ be used to finance a trip to John Carrol University in Cleveland. Ohio where the NCAA championships Division III will be held. Coach Kntlll commented· that \a:ll wrestlers who qualify will be able to attend the Nationals.,; Swlm Tea·m LYN YELTON In their first meet of the season, despite several severe battles with the flu, the l1 nion swimmers put in a fine pedormance, losing to the tough Marines from Kings 1 Point 68-45 . The meet op~ned with Union .taking an easy win in the 400 yeard Medley Relay. Co-captain T 'Om Richardson lead off with a remarkably fine ·backstroke performance. freshmen Jim Lowe swimqll.ng breaststroke and Nick Gassaway doing the butterfly foUowed, leaving the other co-captain Bill West to anchor the relay. We have nl) money to speak of. We were supplied with s·hirts and socks two days before our first game, and shelled out $2.50 each for white gym snorts. And, as proud as we are to represent Union, it is not evident by our \uniforms\~ which are not in Union's colors aild make no mention of the school's name. Just for the sake of comparison, we would like to point out that Union's cheerleaders have a budget of $600 this year and, as evidenced by their slight turnout at both home and away games, do riot come near the level of enthusiasm that exists in women's basketbalL . We have a coach who has had to divide her enerfiies between As long as everyone is talking about competitive athletics, at Union (football and now hockey) how ahout a little talk about developing competitive women's sports teams? The first step is to make them inter-collegiate just to ena!,Ie us to C!>rppete in a league. This must be done because, at least in basketball, if something is not accomplished soon, the sport may die not from lack of interest, but from discouragement and frustration with a program that seems to be going nowhere. Ruth C. Krasscnstcin '77 Barbara Dewey '75 Jody Lavien '78 and others Unfortunately, the next three events did not go as well as Union managed only a third in each. Still; the individual performances of. lr.v, Kavfrp:a'P' in the 1000 free, Tom- Broderick in the 200 yard free, Ray Stecker and Keith Jacobsen in the 50 should not go unmentioned. All showed substantial potential - potential ---------.------~-'-----.,.;----------- to be fully developed during the winning time ~f 2: 17.8 while still opponents convincingly. coming weeks. another freshman, Tom Burgess All in all, this first meet ln the 200 yard individual finished fourth. Union took 2nd displayed> the substantial talent of Medley, Tom Richardson put in a and 3rd in the 500 free as the Union squad. The new winning performance · with the time of 2: 18, while Jim Lowe captured third. The two diving events of the afternoon, added another 6 points to t:inion'~ total score as Eva Schmeckenbecker took seconds in both events and Ray Stecker, diving competitively for the first time, finished fourth. In the 200 fly, freshmen Nick Gassaway and Gaty Price finished I st and 3rd respectively. Two other freshmen, Tom Broderick and Joe Zaengle swam for Union in the 100 yard free, capturing ·second and fourth. l n his third event of the day, the 200 yard backstroke, Richardson captured first with a Winning Performances By Union: 400 Medley Relay - 4:04.7, Richardson, Lowe, Gassaway, West 200 Individual Medley - Richardson - 2:18.2 200 Butterfly - Gassaway - 2:21.2 200 Backstroke - Richardson - 2:17.8 200 Breaststroke - Lowe - 2:32.4 Gassaway was edged out in the final lap. The final Union victory of the day came as Jim Lowe tlirned in a 2:32.4 in the 200 yard breaststroke, beating his strength of the freshmen is particularly noticeable, and coupled with the veterans' ability will prove to be the key factor to Union's success this season. .. Kick save~and a good one.\ The Union Hockey Club opened season vs. Hamilton J. V.'s losing 10-2.

Page8 (:OJYCORDIENSJS, Wednesday, January 29, 1975 · B-Ball Def. Hamilton 90-8 1 by HANK BERNSTEIN defense causing innumerable turnovers resulting in easy . . . buckets. Offensively, discipline _T~e Dutchmen c~nttn~ed their and experience have ' layed the wmmng ways agam thjs week -·. . -- -~ --- -. · ~ - · · 3. \th b k t b k . key roles. Always working fo.· r the w1 · ac o · ac Wins over hi h w 1 ( 8 4-5 3 ) · · M . 1 g .· . percentage open shot and . es eyan m em~na simply knowing each other's Fleldhous: @n Wed~esday mght moves has helped make the team and Hamtlton (89-71) away on one solid uniL Overall Coach SaTtu~day. . . . Sca~on deserves much' of the his Garnet squ~d . e~sl~Y credit for the team's success. His par~l~ls the fine teams 1 !1 Uruons .fine rapport with the players has tra~t~l?n. Char~cten~ed h,Y made Scanlon well respected with dedicatiOn and P_nde, this years both the players and fans alike. hoopers have,_ m most cases, Agai-nst visiting Wesleyan, the outclqgsed their oppo~ent~ and Garnet ran up 15 unanswered have often s_hown poise m the points t@ commence the game and clutch. Altho~gh smaller than the margin never decreased as the most opposing teams, the flustered Cardinals wanted to Dutchmen have played gutty return to their own nest. The /\\ score ·at intermission was 46-24, led\'by Joel Fisbet's 15 points. The second half was no mote interesting. Because of Wesleyan's poor play, the Dutchmen also looked sloppy and lacked their usual sparkle and prescision .. Scanlon emptied the bench: early and the scoring was pretty well balanced ·behind Fish's talli:es, Walk~r 1 s 12, and Mody's 11. Saturd~y night's contest against Hamilton in Clinton was not nearly as easy for the Dutchmen. Jumping out to a 12-2 early lead, we bald a ten point margin at the half. Moreover, the, first ten minutes of the second half was I Continued on Page 7 Bill Mowery tak·es· jJ1'rst· ~'?'J,,. ,. ,,, \' .iMi.'- •· ' in the shot put' with 50' 2%\ toss. Track Downed by ALISON SLOAT A very itnpressive performance by Abraham Davis led the Springfield Chiefs to a 69-45-17-7 victory over V nion, Oswego;• and Le Moyne. on Saturday in Memorial Fieldhouse. Davis captured wins in the long, triple, and high jumps and yet another in the 55 yd. hurdles. clutch hoop against Htzmitton to 67-67 deadlock and check the Continental charge. In the high jump Davis cleared 6'4\ and beat Union's Dave Plumer on .a mere mis~. 6'512\ to lead a Springfield sweep in the long jump and 46'5\ir' for a nearly unchallenged win in the triple jump. The remainder of Davis' p.oints for the Cliiefs came from· his 6. 9 win in the 55 yd. hurdles where · Mark Scheuer claimed the fourth place for the Dutchmen .. Bill Mowery heaved the shot Playing The Field \After 25 years as a head coach,\ said Ara Parsegl?.ian of Notre Dame, \I find myself physically exhausted and emotionally drained.\ Just that way, Parseghian, only 51 years old, announced he wanted out of the most prestigious collegiate coaching position in the country. What could be the reasons behind such a move? The paramount reason it seems, is pressure, pressure to win and pressure to recruit. Such pressures are tangible even at our local level for Bill Kirsch at Siena as they try to go \big time\ in basketball and for Jim Salfi at R. P.I. as that school fights to maintain its hockey program at previous levels of success. Concern has been voiced, and understandably so,, that an overemphasis is now being placed on athletics and that sports programs would soon cause a re-ordering of priorities and a resulting lowering of academic standards here ~t Union. The reason for this concern was tbe recent hiring of two renowned \big time\ collegiate coaches. Torn Cahill in football and Ned Harkness in hockey are both well liked and eminently respected men who have enjoyed outstanding success in their previous collegiate coaching endeavors. We feel that the anxiety and concern which has surfaced is unnecessary. Neither coach wants to invite the pressures at Union which exist for Parseghian, Kirsch. or Salfi. Rather Cahill and Harkness both have expressed their enthusiasm for t:he greater teaching opportunities afforded by athletics on the small college level. They have both worked well at schools with strong academic environments, Cahill at West Point and Harkness at RPI and Comell. Says Harkness, \I never thought that athletics should go beyond the realm of what they're supposed to do; develop good citizenship and good sportsmanship. Nor should any wllege,\ he added, \be put on the spot to lower their requirements academically to bring in an athlete.\ Paddle ball put 50'2~\ for the win in his event accompanied by- AI Gilewicz who grabbed the fourth. Union's t.wo mile relay team, Crawford Cutts, Jim Boyer, Six people participated in the Bruce .~gleston, and B~b recent paddleball tournament. Moffat, Jomed for a 8:09.6 wm. Dick Carver of Beta took· first Moffat returned for a 1:15.6 place defeating Jim \Burke of Phi victory i~ the 600 and later mis~ed Gamma 11·8, 1 J-8 in the finals. another m the 1000 by a fractiOn G~g Sullivan--took a third place of a second. in the competition, · Freshman Ed Ad~s cleared · 13'6\ for the first in the pole vault In the mix~d doubles it was but mis&ed 14'2\ to set a new Allison Sloat and Kevin Heneghan who won the title by soundly defeating Coach Knull and his wife in the finals. The other ·couples who competed were Lyn Yelton-Jim Burke and Kip Kelly-Bruce Freeman. frosh B·Ball The Earl Roger's coached Dutchmen \Yearlings\ Upped their season record to 4-2 With a big win at Hamilton last Saturday nigllt. Tom Casey, the teams high scorer, poured \in J-6 points while Rich Rafalik and Dan DeGregory chipped in ten apiece. The real hero of the game however Was 6'T' center Mike Smith. With only five seconds remaining Smith converted a crucial rebound into. a hoop to give tne Freshman a thrilling 69-68 come- from-behind victory. Earlh:r in the week the Frosh dropped a 70-74 heartbreaker to Wesleyan. Their next test will be at Horne Wednesday in a six p.m. preliminary against powerful Rocitester. Union record. The present record at 14'1\ is held by senior tri- captian Dave Ricks. Ricks, recovering from a back injury, did not compete on Saturaay and may sit out the entit•e season. His reliable performances will be missed. 1/he 50 yd. dash was won by a second .tri-captain, Milt Herting in 5.6 seconds and the fourth was claimed by yet the third captain, Jeff Broomes. For a period of time it was feared that Broomes would also he absent from competition this season but his performance on Saturday put an end to all_doUbts. Broomes later combined with, Steve Mastiadis, Paul Spence, and Bob Moffat for the mile relay. Their 3:40.9 clocking was the fastest recorded for the day but due to a new rule the relay team was disqualified. Under. the new revision a competitor is disqualified after one false start. A warning is no longer given. The confUsion on Saturday was due to uninformed competitors for which there is no excuse. On Saturday the Garnet thinclads travel .to RPI te compete in a Capital District - Meet involving the · Engineers, Albany State, Siena, and Hudson Valley. There is no way that sports will ever either replace or reorder priorities at this institution. The superiority and excellance of Union College will only be enhanced by the presence of these gentlemen. Ace Senior Guard ·Bill Ctll'mody splits Hamilton · d~fenders for lay-up. ' Pr• an; I at• •

Page8 COJI[CORDIENS{S; Wednesday~ Jt~nuary 29, 1975 - B-Ball Def. Hamilton 90-8 1 ' by HANK BERNSTEJN defense causing innumerable turnovers resulting in easy Th . . . . . buckets. Offensively, discipline . · .e Dutchmen c?nhn~ed thetr and experience have layed the wmnmg ways agam this week·· ·. ----· ·--·· : P. ·· · .. .i. 'th b k t b k . key roles. Always working for the WI ac o ac Wins over hi' h · . w 1 ( 8 4-SJ) · · M . 1 g .. percentage open shot and .es eyan • . m em~na simply knowing each other~s Fteldhous~. on Wednesday mght moves has helped make the team and ~amilton (89-71) away on one solid unit. OveraJ!l, Coach Saturday. Sc nl d · ·h· f th Thi G . d l . a on · eserves muc o e s arnet squ~ e~sl ,Y cr-edit for the team's success. His par~l~ls the fine t~ams 1 !1 Urn on s fine rapport with the players. has tra~ttl?n. Char~cten~ed b,y made Scanlon well respected with dedtcatton and P,nde, this years both the players and fans alike. hoopers have •.. m most cases, Against visiting Wesleyan, the outclassed the1r oppo~ent~ and Garnet ran up 1'5 unanswered havte often. shown potse m the paints to commence the game and clu ch. Altho~gh smaller than the maFgin never decreased as the most 0 pposmg teams, the Oustered Cardinals wanted to Dut.chmen have played gutty rettirn tQ their own nest. . The - ~ score at intermission was 46-24; led:by Joel Fisher's 15 points. The second half was no more interesting. Because of Wesleyan's poor play, the Dutchmen also looked .sloppy and lackc,:d their usual sparkle and prescision .. Scanlon emptied the bench early and the scoring was pretty well balanced 'behind Fish's tallies, Walk~r's 12, and Mody's 11. .Satirrday night's contest against Hamilton in Clinton was not nearly as .easy for the Dutchmen. Jumping out to a 12.:2 early lead, we bald a ten point margin at the half. Moreover, the, first ten minutes ef the second half was / Conti!'med on Page 7 \·-f ·--. ;-··,. ,,~ i· ' ..,difiJlfifL Bill Mowery takes first in the shot pui with 50' 2%\ toss. Track Downecl by ALISON SLOAT A very impressive performance by Abraham Davis led the Springfield Chiefs to a 69-45-17~7 victory ov.er Union, Oswego~ and Le Moyne, on Saturday in Memorial Fieldhouse. · Davis captured wins in the long, triple, and high jumps and yet another in the 55 yd. hurdles. Union record. The pres.ent record at l4T' is held by senior tri- captian Dave Ricks. Ricks, recovering from a back injury, did not compete on Satur<iay and may sit out the entire season. His reliable performances will be missed. hoop against H{lmitton to and check the Continental charge. ln the high jump Dav.is Cleared 6'4\ and beat Union's Dave Plumer on a mere miss. 6'5%\ to lead a Springfield sweep in the long jump and 46'5%\ for a nearly unchallenged win in the triple jump. Tbe remainder of Davis' points fQr the Cliiefs came from' his 6.9 win in the,: '55 yd. hurdles where· Mark Scheuer claimed the fourth place f-or the Dutchmen .. Bill Mowery heaved the shot vhe 50 yd. dash was won by a second tri-captain, Milt Herring in 5.6 seconds and the fourth was claimed by yet the third captain, Jeff Broomes. For a period of time it was feared th!lt Broomes would also be absent from competition this. season but his performance o.n Saturday put an end to all_doubts. Broomes later combined with- Steve Mastiadis, Paul Spence, and Bob Moffat for the mile relay. Their 3:40.9 clocking was the fastes.t recorded for the day but due to a new rule the relay team was disqualified. Under. the new revision a com.petitor is disqualified. after one false start. A warning is no longer given. The confusion on Saturday was due to uninformed competitors for which there is no ex elise. Playing. The Freid \After 25 years as a head coach,\ said Ara Parseg11ian of Notre Dame, \I find myself physicaUy exhausted and emotionally drained.\ Just that way, Parseghian, only 51 years old, announced he wanted out of the most prestigious collegiate coaching position in the country. What could be the reasons behind such a move? The paramount reason it seems, is pressure, pressure to win and pressure to recruit. Such pressures are tangible even at our local level for Bill Kirsch at Siena as tliey try to go \big time\ in basketball and for Jim Salfi at R.P.I. as that school fights to maintain its hockey program at previous levels of success. Concern has been voiced, and understandably so, that an overemphasis is now being placed on athletics and that sports programs would soon cause a re-ordering of priorities and a resulting lowering .of academic standards here ;:tt Union. The reason for this concern was the recent hiring of two renowned \'big time\ collegiate coaches. Tom Cahill in football and Ned Harkness in hockey ate both well liked and eminently respected men who have enjoyed outstanding success in their previous collegiate coaching endeavors. We feel that the anxiety and concern which has surfaced is unnecessary. Neither coach wants to invite the pressures at Union which exist for Parseghian, Kirsch, or Salfi. Rather Cahill and Harkness both have expressed their enthusiasm for the greater teaching opportunities affmded by athletics on the small college leveL. They have both worked well at schools with strong academic environments, Cahill at West Point and Harkness at RPI and Cornell. Says H;trkness, \I never thought that athletics should go beyond the realm of what they're supposed to do; develop good citizenship and good sportsmanship. Nor should any college,\ .he added, \be put on the spot to lower their requirements academically to bring in an athlete.\ There is no way that sports will ever either replace or reorder priorities at this institution. The superiority and excellance of Union College will only be enhanced by the presence of these gentlemen. Paddle b-all put 50'2%\ for tlte win in nis event accompanied by· AI Gilewicz who grabl>ed the fourth. Union's t)¥o mile relay team, Crawford Cutts, Jim Boyer, Six: people participated in the Bruce .~gleston, and B?b recent paddlebaU tournament. Moffat, jomed for a 8:09.6 wm. Dick Carver of Beta took first Moffat returned far a 1:15.6 place def~ating Jim \Burke of Phi victory il_l the 600 and later mis~ed Gamma H-8, 11-8 in the finals. another m the 1000· by a fract10n Gteg Sullivan-took a third place of a· second. . . in the competition. · Fres.hman Ed Adams cleared · 13'6\ for the first in the pole v.ault In the tnix~d doubles it was but missed 14'2\ to set a new Allison Sloat and Kevin Heneghan who won the title by soundly defeating Coach · Knull and his wife in the finals. The other couples who competed were Lyn Yelton-Jim Burke and Kip Kelly-Bruce Freeman. Frosh B·Ball The Earl Roger's coached Dutchmen \Yearlings•• upped their season record to 4-2 with a big win at Hamilton last Saturday night. Tom Casey, the teams high scorer, poured 'in l6 points while Rich Rafalik and Dan DeGregory ·chipped in ten apiec~:. The real hero of the game however was 6~3\ center Mike Smith. With only five seconds remaining Smith co.nverh;:d a crucial rebound into a hoop to give the Freshman a thrilling 69-68 come- from-behind victory. ' Earli~r in the week the Frosh dropped a 76-74 heartbreaker to Wesleyan. 'their next test will be at Home Wednesday in a six p.m. preliminary against p.owerful Rochester. 011 Saturday the Garnet thinclads trav.Cl .to RPI to compete in a Capital District - Meet involving the · Engineers, Albany State,. Siena, and Hudson Valley. Ace Senior Guard ·Bill Carmody splits Hamilton · dt:;(etzdersfor lay-up. • )> ·\'. l- .I '.tfl , ,, ·;) '~, ··PJ ar Ia ..

