. WEATHER: -Due to an . · oversight in the C';;omptroller's office; there will be no warm weather .this term uJitil tile bill is paid. . ' , Vol .. 104, No. 18 \CONCORDY is an adeq.ua.te hut not distinguished student newspaper\ T.N. Bonner Wednesday, April.9. 1975 35 cents Concordiensis is printed on vitamin-enriched paper with lron·f(lrtificd ink. It may not taste good but it's good for you! No Co-ed Rooms Bonner Reorganizes College Administration by HOWIE LAX Ln recent weeks there have been questions regarding the proposed coed roein expe6ment on fourth floor West. The floor has been forced to abandon its plan. The eriginal intentions of the plan, according to the floor members, were as foUows: it weuld be educational and int~resting; it would break the routine of dorm life and would be fun; it would facilitate the break- down of the barriers that separate men and women at Union while showing publicly that two people of . l·he opposite sex could room together without having sex; it would greatly foster friendships and develop a sense of cornm11nity on the floor. The entire floor openly debated and analyzed the plan, and criticisms and fears were aired. After the meeting, the maJority of the floor Union FM by DON KAPLAN After months of collecting equipment and performing technical modifications, WRUC will make its debut on the FM dial at 90.9 MHZ in about two weeks. The station officially received its construction permit on November 21, and the interim building period has allowed a number of WRUC's personnel to obtain licenses. WR UC, for the first time. is required to conform to all of the pertinent rules set forth by the Federal Communications Commission for FM stations, This means that public service programs will be aired, and hopefully some of these programs will give students and the Administration a chance to· discuss campus affair.s in the open. The FCC also stipulates that all disc jockeys must have passed FCC exams and the station can carry no commercials. The news, local and national, will be supplied via a UPI teletype. The WRUC technical staff: bas conducted some equipment1 tests and the preliminary results show a crisp stereo signal with a range of over five miles. The temporary schedule will have the station in 9peration from 2:00 p.m. to 2:00 a.m. every day. A \progressive rock\ format will be in effect, except for a few hours of classical music on Sunday afternoons. WRUC is intended as a superior alternative to other stations in the tri-ci ties area. It has the advantage of familiarity with campus affairs, .and each DJ has iree rein over choosing music, although continuity between shows will be stressed. Until WRUC officially obtains its station license, it will operate under \program test authority.\ The FCC will inspect the station to see that it rileets requirements, and it will monitor the signaL Cpnsequently, security procedures will limit visitors inside the studio and prevent phone calls from being aired during a program. Despite the technicalities, WR UC has achieved its long- awaited spot on the FM band. More information about the station may be obtained at the WR UC general meeting this Thursday at 7:00 p.m. in BU 204. .members, including both RA's, were in favor of the project. The floor decided that only those people who wished to participate would be :involved in the r.oom switch. The :people who thought that the idea was a waste of time could either stay in their own rooms or move in with another non-participant. To avoid confusion, roommates were .to be matched by the drawing of names at random. The project was to begin in the evening, some time during the first week of the spring term. and continue for three nights. During that time, each person would l'ive w.ith his new, temporary roommate. As an afterthought, each individual would have the opportunity to select the sex of his roommate. This was intended to afford those whe. either doubted the sincerity or value of a male-female switch .., \'\\\'<t.$i!~117~ President's Plan for tl1e Future The administrative structure of Union College has been reorganized in a shake-up designed. Union President Thomas N. Bonner says, to give the College a stronger \battle plan\ for the future. the eption of moving in with someone of the same sex. With that added stipulation, almost everyone of the floor consented to participate. Mark Smith, Dean of Students, gave his approval of the experiment to the RA's involved. New Post for Lichterman· The reorganization seeks to provide strengthened academic programs, improved means of gathering support and recruiting students for the College, better communications, and better processes for decision-making. lts principal feature is the creation of a new President's Cabinet comprising officers responsible for major policy decisions at the College. The plan was abandoned before tt ever got underway. ln the final wi~ter ·issue of Concordy, an article printed under the pseudonym \Vi\ appeared on the front page. Alluding to the Harrad Experiment, \in which men and women lived together learning open and frank sexual encounters,\ the article contradicted the platonic intent of the proposal. David Eilbett, a member of the floor, explain~d. \A seemingly harmless experiment which was designed to promote communication amongst students Was distorted and perverted out of context.\ Though purporting to be a spoof. \Vi's\ article was construed as factual and led to a barrage of objections against what was perceived to be a sexual experiment. There was an outpouring of telephone calls and letters to Dean Smith and to the Board of Trustees complaining that the College was permitting cohabitation. Pa.r~nts threatened to withdraw their kids from Continued on Page 7 S'pecial to Concordiensis Dr. Martin Lichterman, Dean of the Faculty at Union College, has been appointed to a new position as Professor of Higher Education and History at the (allege. Dr. Lichterman has held major .administrative posts at l'Jnion since 1966. He said that he wished to resign the deanship in order to \contribute to higher education in other ways by returning to the study and the teaching of history and higher education.\ President Bonner said Dr. Lichterman would be asked to develop courses and other programs in higher education induding seminars and a lecture series on trends in education. He will also serve as special assistant to the president for governmental relations. Dr. Bonner commented: \1 know of no one who has worked harder or with greatt:r devotion to Union College than Marty Lichtei=man. His leadership of the College· has been marked by a matchless knowledge of trends in higher education, a personality that has made his office and home Amos Ganor. lsraeJ!s Deputy Consul General / campus centers of friendship, and a understanding of the true of higher education.\ warm deep values Concordiensis has learned that Dean Lichterman is no longer interested in making the \tough decisions\ commensurate with the job. In asking to be released from his duties as dean, Dr. Lichterman made his resignation effective at the end of the current academic year. He added, Cof!tinued on Page 9 A number of positions l)nd titles within Union's administrative structure have been redefiJled. Among the new positions are: Vice President for Development, in charge of fund- raising and alumni relations; Director of Public Relations, with superv1s1on over publications, news services. and reproduction 'ervices; Associate Dean of the Continued on Page 9 Carnegie Boxed In Special to Concordiensis The new mailroom on Carnegie Hall's first floor opened last week and is in full operation this term. All full-time undergraduate students~ both on and offcampus, have been assigned mailboxes. Any student who has not picked up his or her combination shot;ld do so by Friday, April 11, io the new mailroom. For reasons of security, the Israeli To Speak Special to Concordiensis The International Relations Club wiU conclude its lecture series \Oil Conflict, and the Middle East\ Thursday evening, April 10, in Old Chapel. The speaker will be Mr. Amos Ganor, Israel's Deputy Consul General in New York. Ganor was born and educated in Tel Aviv and participated in the War of Independence. After his discharge from the military in 1952 Ganor enrolled in the Tel Aviv School of Law and Economics. Mr. Ganor joined the Israeli Min is try for Foreign Affairs in 1957, and was posted to the Consulate of Israel in Montreal, first as Chancellor, then as Vice- Cons':!_!. While _in Mt?,ntreal he Continued on Page 8 mailroom will be open from 9 a.m. to 10 p.m. daily. All packages and letters, whether regular. insured, certified, or registered, will be delivered directly to the mailroom, thus eliminating delivery of insured, certified, or registered mail to the Housing Office. Special Delivery letters and packages will also be delivered to the mailroom if the student's dormitory and room number is not on the mail. Studl'lnts are reminded to notify parents, friends, or companies to include the student's full campus address if any mail is sent by Special Delivery. The Post Office will deliver it directly to the dorm room or fraternity if this is done. Packages may be picked up in the sorting room, which is in the basement of Carnegie, directly below the mailroom. Notification of arrival of a parcel will be via a \package slip\ in your mail box.. J.D.'s will be required when picking up a package. Package hours have also been greatly ex.panded. The .. sorting room is open for package pickup from 1:30-3:00 p.m. each weekday, from 6:30-8:00 p.m. Monday through Thursday, and from 12:00 noon to 2 p.m. on Saturday. This allows enough time for a student to pick up a package the same day he receives it. Residents of Webster House, Smith House, Davidson coop, McKean, and fraternities are urged to notify. friends and Continued on Page 7

WEATH'ER: ·Due to an · oversi3ht in the G:omptroller's offi~e, there will be .no warm weather thi;,c terrn 1il!til the :bill is paid. - Vo1..104, No. 18 \CONCORD¥ i$ an adeq.uate but not distin\guished student newspaper\ T.N. Bormer Wednesday, Apri19. 1975 \ ' \ Concmdiensis is printed on vitamin-enriched paper with iron-fortified ink. It may not taste good but it's good for you! No Co-ed Rooms Bonner Reorganizes College Administration by HOWlE LAX In recent weeks there have been· questions regarding the proposed coed rooin expe~;iment on fourth floor West. T,he floor has been forced to abandon its plan. The original intentions of the plan, according to the floor . members, were\ as follows: it would be educational and interesting; it would break the routine of dorm life .and would be fun; ,it would facilitate the break- down of the barriers that separate men and women at Union while showing publicly that two people of the opposite sex co1:1ld room together without having sex; it would greatly foster friendships and develop a s.ense of community ori the floor. The entire floor openly debated ap.d analyzed the plan, and criticisms and fears were aired: After the meeting, the majority of the floor U·nion FM by DON KAPLAN After months of collecting equipment and performing technical modifications, WR U C will make its debut on the FM dial at 90.9 MHZ in about two weeks. The statiQn officially received its construction permit on November 21, and the interim building period has allowed a number of WRUC's personnel to obtain licenses. WRUC, fot the first time, is required to conform to all of the pertinent rules set forth by the Federal Commtmications Commission for FM stations. This means that public service programs. will be aired, and hopefully some of these programs wilt give students and the Administration a chance to- discuss campus affair.(:l in the open. The FCC also stipulates that all disc jockeys must have passed FCC exams and the station can carry no comme.rcials. The news, local and national, will be supplied via a U PI teletype. The WRUC technical staff, has conducted some equipment: t~sts and the preliminary results show. · a crisp stereo signal with a range of over five miles. The temporary schedule will have the station in c_>peration from 2:00 p.m. to 2:00 a.m. e¥ery day. A \progressive rock\ format will be in effect, except for a few hours of classical music on Sunday afternoons. W R UC is intended as a superior alternative to other stations in the tri~cities a.rea. It has the advantage of familiarity with campus affairs,.4}.nd each DJ. has free rein over choosing music; although continuity between shows will be stressed. Until WRUC officially obtains its station license, it will operate under \program test authority.\ The FCC will inspect the station to see that it meets requirements, and it will monitor the signal. Consequently, security procedures will limit visitors inside the studio and prevent phone calls from being aired during a program. Despite the technicalities, WRUC has achieved its long~ awaited spot on the FM band. More information about the station may be obtained at the WRUC general meeting this Thursday at 7:00 p.m. in BU 204. members, including both RA's, were in favor of the project. The floor decided that only those peo.ple who wished to participate would oe involVed in the room switch. The people who thought that the idea was a waste of time could either stay in their own rooms or move in with another non-participant. To avoid confusion, roommates were to be matched oy the drawing of names at random. The project was to begin in the evening, some time during the ·first week of the spring term, and continue for three nights. During that time, each person would live with his new, temporary roommate. As an after~hought, each individual would have the opportunity to select the sex of his roommate. This was intended to afford those who either doubted the sincerity or value of a male-female switch the eption of moving in with someone of the same sex. With that added stipulation, almost everyone of the flo(H consented to participate. Mark Smith, Dean of Students, gave his approval of the experiment to the RA's involved. The plan was abandoned before it ever got underway. In the final wi11ter · issue of Concordy, an article printed under the pseudonym \Vi\ appeared on the front page. Alluding to the Harrad Experiment, \in which men and women lived together learning open and frank sexual encounters,\ the article contradicted the platonic intent of the proposal. David Eilbett, · a member of the floor, eXplain~d, \A seemingly harmless experiment which was designed to promote communication amongst students was distorted and perverted out of context.\ Though purporting to be a spoof. \Vi's\ article was construed as factual and led to a barrage of objections against what was perceived to be a sexual experiment. There was an outpouring of telephone calls and letters· to Dean Smith and to the Board of Trustees complaining that the College was permitting cohabitation. Patents threatened to withdraw their kids from Continued on Page 7 Special to Concordiensis Dr. Martin Lichterman, Dean of the Faculty at Union College, has been appointed to a new position as Professor of Higher Education and History at the Col1ege. Dr. Lichterman has held major .administrative posts at Union since 1966. He said that he . wished to resign the deanship in order to \contribute to higher education in other wa·ys by returning to the study and the teaching of history ana higher education.\ President Bonner said Dr. Lichterman would be asked to develop courses and other programs in higher education including seminars and a lecture series on trends in education. He will also serve as special assistant to the president for governmental relations. Dr. Bonner commented: \I know of no one who has worked harder or with greatt:r devotion to Union College than Marty Lichterman. His leadership of the College· has been marked by a matchless knowledge of trends in higher education, a personality that has made his office and home Amos Ganor, Israel's Deputy Consul General / campus centers of friendship, and a understanding of the true of higher education.\ warm deep values Concordiensis has learned that Dean Lichterman is no longer interested in making the \tough decisions\ commensurate with the job. In asking to be released from his duties as dean, Dr. Lichterman made his resignation effective at the end of the current academic year. He added, Continued on Page 9 President's Plan for the Future The administrative structure of Union Coltege has been reorganized in a shake-up designed, Union President Thomas N . .Bonner says, to give the College a strenger \battle plan\ for the £uture. The reorganization seeks to provide strengthened academic programs. improved means of gathering support and recruiting students for the College, better communications, and better processes for decision-making. Its principal feature is the creation of a new President's Cabinet comprising officers responsible for major policy decisions at the College. A number of positions and titles within Union's administrative structure have been redefined. Among the new positions are: Vice President for Development, in charge of fund- raising aud alumni relations; Director of Public Relations, with superv1s1on over publications, news services, and reproduction <>ervices: Associate Dean of the Continued on Page 9 Carnegie Boxed In Special to Concordiensis The new mailroom on Carnegie Hall's first floor opened last week and is in full operation this term. All full-time undergraduate students, both on and off campus, have been assigned mailboxes. Any student who has not picked up his or her combination shol;ld do so by Friday, April 11, in the new mailroom. For reasons of security, the Israeli To Speak Special to Concordiensis The International Relations Club wiU conclude its lecture series \Oil Conflict, and the Middle East\ Thursday evening, April 10, in Old Chap.el. The speaker will be Mr. Amos Ganor, Israel's Deputy Consul General in New York. Ganor was born and educated in Tel Aviv and participated in the War of Independence. After his discharge from the military in 1952 Ganor enrolled in the Tel Aviv School of Law and Economics. Mr. Ganor joined the Israeli Ministry for Foreign Affairs in 1957, and was posted to the Consulate of Israel in Montreal, first as Chancellor, then as Vice- Cons'!,~. While _in M~ntreal he Continued on Page 8 mailroom will be open from 9 a.m. to I 0 p.m. daily. All packages and letters, whether regular, insured, certified, or registered, will be delivered directly to the mailroom, thus eliminating delivery of insured, certified. or registered mail to the Housing Office. Special Delivery letters and packages will also be delivered to the mailroom if the student's dormitory and room number is not on the mail. Students are reminded to notify parents, friends, or companies to include the student's full campus address if any mail is sent by Special Delivery. The Post Office will deliver it directly to the dorm room or fraternity if this is done. Packages may be picked up in the sorting room, which is in the basement of Carnegie, directly below the mailroom. Notification of arrival of a parcel will be via a \package slip\ in your mail box. I.D.'s will be required when picking up a package. Package hours have also been greatly expanded. The .. sorting room is open for package pickup from 1:30-3:00 p.m. each weekday, from 6:30 .. 8:00 p.m. Monday through Thursday, and from 12:00 noon to 2 p.m. on Saturday. This allows enough time fot a student to pick up a package the same day he receives it. Residents of Webster House, Smith House, Davidson coop, McKean, and fraternities are urged to notify. friends and Continued on Pa1e 1

, I ~ • . ' \ '.I·, i: Page2 CONCORDIENSIS, Wednesday, Apri/9, 1975 you said.it _____ .... ~a~ .. · ~~ Gt~tt_t~ 17 ~Z:~~,~tl.' . ' C(j)''y~ ' . . \ ~}/.-:-.· .. . Editors-in-chief ........................... 1 onathan Scheer Peter Sobol Features Editor ................... Lee Rimsky Culture Editors .................. Mike Affinito - · David Moskowitz • Editors, Concordiensis: Reading your March 6 issue of Concordiensis, I was struck with your efforts to combat racism on campus. There is another side to the story . These sailors, are, for the most part, intelligent and ed':lcated. It is not an exaggeratiOn to say that this project, without requmng a great deal of time from too many people, may attract worldwide attention as there is not one international port in the world which offers any kind of welcome of this natur.e to visiting merchant marine sailors. ·wasn't involved should care what goes on in the privacy of our rooms. What right· do people detached from the situation have to tell us what to do with o~rselves? I always thought the Bill of Rights protected us from such outside inter,ference. Sports Editors ................. Kevin Crawford . Barb Dewey Managing Editor .............. Chris O'Connor Copy Editor ..................... Phil ~lcabes Contributing Editors ............... Judy Dein Rob Mondschein ~, Bill Talis Business Manager .............. Bob Harleman National Advertising .............. Betsy Barnet Subscriptions .................... Shelley Gold Lisa Tietz Staff: Lance Travis, Bill Plaus, John B11sterud,. Brichtman, Greg Cohen, Rich Guardian, Rudy Danny McManamon, Mike Rotondi. Sue Lu, CONCORDlENSIS is published every Wednesday by the student body of Union College, Old Gym Hall, Schenectady, N.Y.; to wlticlt Postal Forms 3579 are directed. Publications Office: The Jewish World Publications, 416 Smith St., Schenectady, N.Y. 12305 (370-5483). Entered in the Schenectady Post Office as Second Class Matter. Subscr.iption Rate 35 cents per copy. $8.00 a year delivered anywhere in' the United States. your new eoneordy You are the lucky owner of a brand new Coneordiensis. With the proper care and treatment, your new improved Concordy will- give you twenty weeks ofconfusion-free fact and fiction fun. This new Concordy features accurate news and clamorous commentary which (as an added bonus) are easy to tell apart. It is spec1ally formulated to remain· humorous, interes.ting, and unpredictable right up to Judgement Week. It will also never fail I am not black, but belong to another sector .of society which is also discriminated against. l am old. Once I used to be young and pretty, spent many hours on your campus, at the fraternity dances, walked across it every day to classes, loved it. People smiled at me, couldn't do enough for me. Now hardly a day passes that someone. doesn't insult me, knowingly or unknowingly, in a dozen insidious ways. I am not ugly; croche.ty, unpleasant; just grayhaired. Still, the subtle abuse. · But I mustn't let it bother me. I must go on about my business, doing first what I ·must do and then what I want to do, without letting the action of others influence my actions. That would be letting 'THEM call the shots for MY life. I could get aU wrapped up in the resentments of real or imagined slights, but that would leave too little time for my mind to dwell on the important myriad interesting things in the world which are pleasant, activities which are self-fulfilling. There's only one reason for either black or white, young or old, to be on campus anyway; the pursuit of knowledge. If one's waking hours are crammed with this search, there isn't time for pettiness, for dwelling on real or imagined insults. Dignity, gained by the knowledge that it's what's inside the brain that really counts, wifl make those who .give the insults a diminishing importance. Unsigned hey~ sailor to wonder at various campus situations, such as Ice Editors, Concordiensis, Rinks, Parking Lots, the All-night Study, and As t~ Community Development Intern, 'I have played Dean Smith. ·a significant role in initiating Your new Concordy will contain a column of several programs of both immediate and long range benefit conversations with the powers that be, called \The to the Union College campus and Horse's Mouth.\ It will contain a column of its relationship to the off-campus community. Specifically, I am nonsense called '~Brain Leakages.\ It will contain a speaking of the. New American column for those who wish to be dead serious Plays Program and the Children's Theatre Program, both of which called \Dead Serious.\ It will have a foot in every will be moving from the planning • stage into full production this door and a finger in every pte. spring term- at which time their your new Concordy will operate without any value to the campus, hopefully, will be felt. trouble provided it is watered and fed once a week What 1 have unfortunately and with contributions such as news, jokes, grief, most regrettably not been able to develop, primarily because of questions, answers, streams of consciousness, tall time limitations, is a program tales, and almost anything made up of words, known as the Port of Albany Project. This is a program of drawings, photographs, and inkblots. great potential involving a We hope you enJ'oy your new Concordy. It has cultural exchange between Union students and Merchant Marine been tested and examined by fourth floor men of sailors from foreign countries f 1 k docked at the Port of Albany for excellent repute. I trouble deve ops, ta e two indefinite periods of time. (Over Comp Ed's and call us in the winter. 60 ships a month dock at the Port). The sailors know little of A great deal (If help is needed in organization and, with help, the Port of Albany Pwject has a very real chance of being realized. However, I will simply be unable to carry this extra load of responsibility alone and .so appeal to students, faculty members, and organizations to volunteer some time this term. 1 can be contacted through Mrs. Snowden at t-he Dean of Students Office in Old Gym Hall. It would he a terrible shame to see this project firll by the wayside. . . Bob Harders Community Development Intern spilled seed Editors,· Concordiensis, Must publicity be an automatic death blow to any experiment on this campus'? The issue I speak of is, of course, the aborted coed room switch on four floor West. When the idea was first conceived, Dean Smith was approached and gave his support to such an experiment. The Administration had enough faith in us to agree that a t:oom switch for a few days was a good idea. However, a spoof of the plan appearing in Concordy quickly planted the seed of suspicion in many minds. Not only did many other students assume sexual implications, but parents and Administrators showed strong opposition.,Suddenly, cohabit- ation, long an accepted part of dorm life, was something threatening to people who weren't even involved. Everyone knows plenty ,of males live with females on this campus, but when a temporary, non-sexual case is announced, it automatically cannot be allowed. This attitude is hypocritical and intolerable in a free society. It seems as if people in a position of responsibility are willing to allow supposedly immoral actions as long as they can pretend that they don't know about it. As long as something doesn't appear in writing, they can't be held. accountable and, therefore will not discourage anything which is \immoral\. However, should written proof be exist. they wili prohibit such actions, just to go on record as having done so. Another important consequence of this issue is the suppre·ssion of personal rights. This experiment could have had no detrimental effects on anyone involved, because all were given the choice to cohabitate, exchange rooms with a member of the same sex, or to not participate _at all. No one who eongr a tolations We would like to take this opportunity to congratulate Dr. Bonner on his announcement of a plan which we hope will return Union College to the heights of prestige~ fame, and glory which it has not known since the 1840's. We trust that ·the reorganization of the administration and the appointment of fresh faces will help lift the spirits of an institution which has for so long languished. in anonymity. American culture and almost nothing of the tri-city area in ' which they are stay in g. Consequently, many of the sailors who do venture out of the Port find themselves ripped-off by taxi-drivers, hookers, and in bars and restaurants. Thus a great number of them never leave their ship. The thrust of the Port Project · involves sharing our time and culture with the sailors through music, discussion, shared dinners on the ships (each ship prides itself on playing host to visitors, offering the best of its native foods, wines, and beers), literature, theatre, art, and ideas. As of .no\}' our chances of carrying out the switch are n~gligible, thanks to the self- ~ighteous, pass-the-buck attitude of so many. Roy Zuckerberg fun undone Editors, Concordi..Sis:, The purpose ofthis letter is to clarify our intent in proposing co- ed rooms on fourth floor West. Under normal circumstances, we do not feel that we would have to justify ou~ a'ctions, but in light of \Vi's\ recent article, and the subsequent outpouring of opinion, ranging frotn student to faculty to administration to parent to trustee (even a student who went ·to high school with us who now' works on Kirkland's paper, read Concordy and. questioned us about it), we feel that we have no alternative but to explain our motives. The idea of co-ed rooms· originally arose from simple kidding-around on the floor. We were surprised at the favorable reaction it got when we merely mentioned the idea at a recent · floor meeting. Nat only was there general agreement among both sexes, but the R.A.'s on the floor were also enthusiastic about the idea. We stressed at the floor meeting that the reason for the co-ed rpoms was not se~ually- . motivated, as Vi's article would have you be)ieve, but was just a scheme to bring the floor closer together and have _fun in the process. In the drab, dull, routine life we've all become accustomed to at Union, we felt that something like this would provide a refreshing change to that routine, thereby enabling us to escape from Union's ennui. We hardly feel that in tliree days, which is how long the co-ed rooming would have existed, students of fourth floor West would change into wanton seekers of sex. We, as proponents of the plan, should apologize to those few students on fourth floor West who felt offended and self- conscious after reading the article. We deeply regret any embarrassment. that was caused. We believe an article should have been written about the experiment; however, this article should have more accurately, depicted the original purpose of our idea. We regret that people have chosen~to pass judgement on;: this unimportant issue when there are far more important issues to be dealt with that are totally neglected in the Union community. The \would pre- supposed sexual practices of students is not one of those important issues. We will finally repeat that the idea of co-ed rooms Was not sexually-motivated, but merely done in a spirit of fun. If Concordy wishe:,; to seek our \moral turpitude'\ let it get .away from sex and slanted articles on the subject, and enter into a new era of investigati:ve reporting. Let it investigate cases where true moral turpitude is revealed, cases where apathy and insensitivity are far more morally offending than one's purported (and in some case_s mistakenly reported) sexual habits. J David Eilbott Matt Brief . 1 J l - ,_ [ . II t:

Page2 CONCORDIENSIS, Wednesday, Apri/9, 1975 ~a~~ ~lr# Qtnnror~Ziltrtn~ia ~f:Z Fd itors-in-chief.. ......................... Jonathan Scheer Peter Sobol Features Editor ................... Lee Rimsky Culture Editors .................. Mike Affi nito David Moskowitz Sports Editor~ ................. Kevin Crawford Barb Dewey Managing Editor .............. Chris O'Connor Copy Editor ..................... Phil Alcabes Contributing Editors ............... Judy Dein Rob M ondschein . Bill Talis Business Manager .............. Bob Harleman National Advertising .............. Betsy Barnet Subscriptions .................... Shelley Gold Lisa Tietz Staff: Lance Travis. Bill Plaus. John Busterud. Sue Brichtman. Greg Cohen, Rich Guardian, Rudy Lu, Oann\' McManamon. Mike Rotondi. CONCORDIENSIS is published every Wednesday by the student body of Union College, Old Gym Hall, Schenectady, N.Y.; to which Postal Forms 3579 are directed. Publications Office: The Jewish World Publications, 416. Smith St., Schenectady, N.Y. 123()5 (370-5483). Enter.ed in the Schenectady Post Office as Second Class Matter. Subscription Rate 35 cents per copy. $8.00 a year delivered anywhere in' the United States. your new eoneordy You are the lucky owner of a brand new Concordiensis. With the proper care and treatment, your new improved Concordy will give you twenty weeks of confusion-free fact and fiction fun. This new Concordy features accurate news and clamorous commentary which (as an added bonus) are easy to tell apart. It is specially formulated to remain humorous, interesting, and unpredictable right up to Judgement Week. It will also never fail to wonder at various campus situations, such as Ice Rinks, Parking Lots, the All-night Study, and Dean Smith. Your new Concordy will contain a column of conversations with the powers that be, called \The Horse's Mouth.\' It will contain a column of nonsense called \'Brain Leakages.\ It will contain a column for those who wish to be dead serious called \Dead Serious.\ It will have a foot in every door and a finger in every pie. Your new Concordy wilJ operate without any trouble provided it is watered and fed once a week with contributions such as news, jokes, grief, questions, answers, streams of consciousness, tall tales, and almost anything made up of words, drawings, photographs, and inkblots. We hope you enjoy your new Concordy. It has been tested and examined by fourth floor men of excellent repute. If trouble develops, take two Comp Ed's and call us in the winter. congratulations We would like to take this opportunity to congratulate Dr. Bonner on his avmouncement of a plan which we hope will return Union College to the heights of prestige, fame, and glory which it has not known since the 1840's. We trust that the reorganization of the administration and the appointment of fresh faces will help ],ift the spirits of an institution which has for so long languished in anonymity. ' . . , • • • • • ' •' ~ , • • ,t , , ~ ·- • I . • , • ' ~ ' ~ • rae1sm Editors, ConcOI'diensis: Reading your March 6 issue of ('oncordiensis, I was struck with vour efforts to combat racism on ~ampus. There is another side to the storv. I am· not black. but belong to another sector of society which is also discrimiNated against. I am old. Once I used to be young and pretty. spent many hours on your campus. at the fraternity dances, walked across it every day to classes. loved it. People smiled at me. couldn't do enough for me. \'ow hardlv a day passes that someone doesn't insult me, knowingly or unkfwwingly, in a dozen insidious ways. I am not ugly. crochety, unpleasant; jrttst grayhaired. Still, the subtle abuse. But I mustn't let it bother me. I must go on about my business, doing first what I must do and then what I want to do. without letting the action of others inl1uence mv actions. That would he letting i·H EM call the shots for MY life. I could get all wrapped up in the resentments of real or imagined slights, but that would leave too little time for my mind to dwell on the important mvriad interesting things in the w~rld which are pleasant, activities which are self-fulfilling. There's onlv one reason for either black or ~hite, young or old, to be on campus anyway; the pursuit of knowledge. If one's waking hours are crammed with this search. there isn't time for pettiness. for dwelling on real or imagined insults. Dignity, gained bv the knowledge that it's what's i~side the brain that really counts, will make those who give the insults a diminishing importance. Unsigned hey~ sailor Editors, C oncordiensis, As the Community Development Intern, I have played a significant role in initiating several programs of both immediate and long range benefit to the Union College campus and its relationship to the off-campus community. Specifically, I am speaking of the, New American Plays Program and the Children's Theatre Program. both of which will be moving from the planning stage into full production this spring term - at which time their value to the campus, hopefully, will be felt. What I have unfortunately and most regrettably not been able to develop. primarily because of time limitations, is a program known as the Port of Albany Projed. This is a program of great potential involving a cultural exchange between Union students and Merchant Marine sailors from foreign countries docked at the Port of Albany for indefinite periods of time. (Over 60 ships a month dock at the Port). The sailors know little of American culture and almost nothing of the tri-city area in which they arc staying. Consc4uently, many of the sailors who do venture out of the Port find themselves ripped-off by taxi-drivers. hookers. and in bars aNd restaurants. Thus a great nurnher of them never leave their ship. The thrust of the Port Project involves sharing our time and culture with the sailors through music. discussion, shared dinners on the ships (each ship prides itself on playing host to visitors, offering the best of its native foods. wines, and beers). literature, theatre, art, and ideas. These sailors. are, tor the most part. intdligent a11d ed~cated . It is not an exaggeration to say that this project, without re4uiring a great deal of time from too many people, may attract worldwide attention as there is not one international port in the world which offers any kind of welcome of this nature to visi,ting merchant marine sailors. A great deal of help is needed in organization and, with help, the Port of Albany Project has a verv real chance of being realized. Ho.wever, I will simply be unable to carrv this extra load of responsibility alone and so appeal to students. faculty members, and organizations to volunteer some time tl<tis term. I can be contacted through Mrs. Snowden at the Dean of Students Office in Old Gvm Hall. It would be a terrible shame to see this project fall by the wayside. Bob Harders Community Development Intern spilled seed Editors, Concordiensis, Must publicity be an automatic death blow to any experiment on this campus'? The issue I speak of is. of course. the aborted coed room switch on four floor West. When the idea was first conceived. Dean Smith was approached and gave his support to such an experiment. The Administration had enough faith in us to agree that a room switch for a few days was a good idea. However. a spoof of the plan appearing in Concordy quickly pIan ted the seed of suspicion in many minds. Not only did many other students assume sexual implications. but parents and Administrators showed strong opposition.,Suddenly, cohabit- ation. long an accepted part of dorm life, was something threatening to people who weren't even involved. Everyone knows plenty of males live with females on this campus, but when a temporary, non-sexual case is announced, it automatically cannot be allowed. This attitude is hypocritical and intolerable in a free society. It seems as if people in a position of responsibility are willing to allow supposedly immoral actions as long as they can pretend that they don't know about it. As long as something doesn't appear in writing, they can't be held accountable and, therefore will not discourage anything which is \immoral\. However, should written proof be exist, they will prohibit such actions. just to go on record as having done so. Another important consequence of this issue is the suppression of personal rights. This experiment could have had no detrimental effects on anyone involved. because all were given the choice to cohabitate, exchange rooms with a member of the same sex, or to not participate at all. No one who wasn't involved should care what goes on in the privacy of our rooms. What right do people detached from the situation have to tell us what to do with o~rselves'? I always thought the Bill of Rights protected us from such outside interference. As of mow our chances of carrying out the switch are negligible. thanks to the self- righteous. pass-the-buck attitude of so many. Roy Zuckerberg Editors, Concordiensis: The purpose of this letter is to clarifv our intent in proposing co- ed r~oms on fourth floor West. lJ nder normal circumstances, we do not feel that we would have to jt!stify our actions, but in light of .\Vi's\ recent article, and the suhse4uent outpouring of opinion. ranging from student to facurltv to administration to parent to trustee (even a student who went to high school with us who now' works on Kirkland's paper. read Concordy and 4uestioned us about it), we feel that we have no alternative but to explain our motives. The idea of co-ed rooms originally arose from simple kidding-around on the floor. We were surprised at the favorable reaction it got when we merely mentioned the idea at a recent 11oor meeting. Not only was there general agreement among both sexes. but the R.A.'s on the floor were also enthusiastic about the idea. We stressed at the 11oor meeting that the reason for the co-ed rooms was not sexually- motivated. as Vi's article would have you believe. but was just a scheme to bring the floor closer together and have fun in the process. In the drab, dull, routine life we've all become accustomed to at Union. we felt that something like this would provide a refreshing change to that routine, thereby enabling us to escape from Union's ennui. We hardly feel that in three days, which is how long the co-ed rooming would have existed, students of fourth floor West would change into wanton seekers of sex. We, as proponents of the plan, should apologize to those few students on fourth floor West who felt offended and self- conscious after reading the article. We deeply regret any embarrassment that was caused. We believe an article should have been written about the experiment; however, this article should have more accurately depicted the original purpose of our idea. We regret that people have chosen to pass judgement on this unimportant issue when there are far more important issues to be dealt with that are totally neglected in the Union community. The \would-be\ pre- supposed sexual practices of students is not one of those important issues. We will finally repeat that the idea of co-ed rooms was not sexually-motivated. but merely done in a spirit of fun. If Concordy wishe:- to seek our \moral turpitude\'. let it get away from sex and slanted articles on the subject. and enter into a new era of investigative reporting. Let it investigate cases where true moral turpitude is revealed, cases where apathy and insensitivity are far more morally offending than one's purported (and in some cases mistakenly Feported) sexual habits. David Eilbott Matt Brief {' ! l I l .. t I

r e e h e 11 f e ,- e g 0 ,_ t. •e 0 )[ te lf :o :o lt lS .'s ld el lo as· ·le fe ·le ly nt. re th or lle or lle lY-. ild a 1er he ife to ng a 1e, pe lly is ing of 1ge tn, ew est :lf- :le. ny ed. tve he cle ely, of ple :on, ere to tlly on 1re- of ose the not ·ely If our vay on 1ew Let rue tses are ~an lme :u' )Ott lrief \ : ··~===-~~~==========~========C=O=N=C=O=R~D~IE_N~S:I;Si~i~.ei~n.e.sd·a~y=,~A~p-ri_l9_,_I_9_75 ____ _. ______ ~---------------P._ag_e_3 ___ Brain ~~e~~ges ln·terc·ourse ... Sexual an;d' Social·· by VI Last term Concordy so_ught to uncover \moral turpitude\ among the faculty and, after .finding no nookie nearby, turned inwards, in reporting on the so-called \Harrad Experiment at Union College.\ . Parental reaction demands a few clar!fications. Mom and Dad, coed living on the fourth floor of West was in no way designed to promote heterosexual or other behavior by students at Union College. The plan was a novelty, designed for only social intercourse, not those \naughties\ you missed when you were young. The intent .of the re~'dents was to switch rooms for three days to promote 9/Qser living. A communist. plot? Twelve people are registered Republicans, ._fourteen are Democrats, and three aspire to be nuns. Besides, dear parents, no one needs a \Harrad Plan,\ or even a divorce (f you're marrfed. We invite you to read the .fo.llowing for what it's worth: it beats Reader's Digest any day. · The Union College \Harrad Experiment,\ scheduled by fourth floor West this week. has been abandoned in the face of \mounting opposition by the College and parents,\ according to a participant of the plan. The plan. consented to by all its participants, was not considered to jeopardize or encourage sexual behavior of any nature on this campus. But at least one skeptical parent stated, \We know better.\ Soft On Sex Dean Mark Mith. who ·originally approved. the Union Harrad Plan. was reportedly flooded with vehement letters and obscene phone calls from irate parents. In reversing his policy of support, Mith said, \Don't do what I told you, do what l tell you.\ Participants of the plan marched on M ith's office, where he told them, \I supported you. It wasn't my fault. That damned Concordy revealed all the secrets.\ Cheering students waved placards saying \Perish - Don't Publisl:!!\ Cover Up? Reaction· against Union's Harrad Plan mushroomed after Concordy unbarred the plan in its March 19th issue. Students claim that the plan would have been implemented without interruption, were it not for public revelatipns. One administrative source said. \If things were kept quiet on this campus, we could have a ball.\ That source further commented, ··we. at the Administration get away with more than the students. They come here to get· an education. Why can't they learn from us?\ The spokesman pointed to covert projects such as campus reorganization ~plans. the tharacterir.ation Research Project, and the NHL training camp ... We had prople fired from their jobs· six months before they knew it.\ he boasted. .But for the present. Harrad is a source of embarrassment to people in high places. Despite the spokesman felt that Concordy had blown it don't know can't hurt them.\ puzzlement and the controversy, and ••what they Concordy categorically denied all the charges and hopes to receive a commendation for its efforts to get the facts from a former U.S. Vice President. . Reports emerged that a Task Force would be created to look into alleoed sexual wrongdoings and press leaks ··of sensitive z::. ~ ' l information. Critics of·tbe committee immediately charged \cover up.\ although it could not be ascertained if such a committee would be· formed at all. The Schenectady Comtty t>A's office has · not · planned any indictments in conRection with the Union Harrad Plan, but one spokesman said. \We're looking into some pr~tty cute sodomy cases.\ • -''. l Co.llege Crackdown 'fhe move .against the Harrad Plan follows an increasing trend on campus. to crack down on potential deviancy by nipping it in the bud. As one administrator said, \We have to plan for the hard times ahead.\ Vissibility seems to be the key to regulation of behavior. Campus crackdowns have included discouraging students from brin..ging hard-core and other films to campus such as \Saliva \Nostrils and the academically-oriented flick '•Slide Rule\; The \X-Files a clandestine collection of sex-related texts and other materials is kept under lock and key in Schaffer Library. Ask your librarian. If you speak softly. she knows. In an effort to redefine and explicate the goals of a liberal arts education along pragmatic rather than abstract lines, many small colleges throughout the nation are experimenting with an innovative form of education known as competency-based learning. These experiments have recently taken on an added significance due to the inexorable increase in unemp.l6yment, as the programs prepare students better for the reality of the world outside their college communities, and for the difficulties attaclled to obtaining a skilled job in these recessionary times. Competency-based learning revolves around the premise of evaluating students on their ability to communicate well, solve problems, 1,1nd show ethical awareness rather than the traditional testing of factual content of courses. Success and progress of individuals are measured not in grades or credits, but in competence-level units which. test student ability in such areas as communicative and problem-solving skiils, analytical capabilities, social interaction and value judgements, responsiveness towards the arts and humanities, and awaren·ess of one's surroundings. The focus of these programs emphasizes the intellectual or cognitive process rather than rote memorization, with further stress placed on Parents' Weekend Parents' Weekend this year will be May 9-1 0-ll th. Among the scheduled events for the weekend is an outdoor picnic lunch catered by Maurice's, to be held after the award ceremony ori Saturday. All students, parents, faculty and staff are invited to attend. On Saturday night Count B:;~.sie a.nd his orchestra w)ll be giving a concert and dance in the Fieldhouse. By this time all parents have received a letter concerning Parents' Weekend an4 the schedule of events, and may already be planning to attend the weekend. For both lunch and the concert it is necessary to obtain tickets. Tickets ·may be picked up in the Student Activities Office of' Old Gym Hall with Mrs. Marra from April 23rd until May 9th. Lunch tickets are $1.00 per person; any number of lunch tickets is available to each student. :-.;· ::::::: :;: ::: :::::::::::::=::::::::::::::::::::: ::::::::::: :::~: :::::: ;::::: ::::;::~::::;:~: !:~:~ :~ =~=~=~=~:::::: ::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ::=:::::=:::::: :::::: :::+· Con ce r t t ic k e t s w i 11 a I so be ::;: Nominations for the Class period will cover one week :i:~ available at this time. The concert ;:;: of 1975 representative to the teFminating on the day. of the :;:: is free of charge to students,. :;:; Alumni Council of Union senior meeting regarding ~~~~ parents. faculty. and staff. Each ::;: College will be accepted in the Commencement (usually held :::; student may obtain one concert :;:; Alumni Office, in person or by in mid-May). No specific date :::: ticket for himself or herself and :;:; mail, from March 15 through has been set for that meeting ;:;: two additional for parents. :::; April IS. A descri.ption of the but an announcement of the :;:; Faculty and staff may pick up :~:: Council and the duties of meeting will be enclosed in the·~~~: two tickets .. f'or parents who have. 1 !;::.the Alumni Council Rep- ballots distributed to seniors. ;:;: not acquired· tickets before May :::: re!!entative (ACR) are Anyone ·with questions :~~l 9th. ticket'S will be a·vailabhi on .;:;: included in the \Alumni regarding tile office ot the :::: Friday evening and Saturday ::;:; Handbook 1975,\ which was election should contact ;!;! morning in Hale House Lounge. ::::; mailed to all seniors In mid- ·Assistant Alumni Director Bill ;!;i A more detailed schedule for :l:1: February. Kuchta in Lamont ilou~.i ~m the weekend will be printed soon. ;:;:: This year, . the election :;:; 1 •.•,, ~-n•••• ... •••••••.;•··•~, .... , .. ,•.•,•,•~•.•t\t\e•e,•,•e•••••••••\'• .. t. .... •••••••••t•tl'•••••••••••'\•\• .. •••••••••,.•'•••••,.fl••••:•••:•;•;•:•:o:o:•:•,~~ •!•:•. '•'••••,•;.• .. •••••••• .-•,.•. ,•.-r,.e,•.•,•,•,•.•,•.•,•.•,•,•.•,•.•~•••••••••o•,•.•,•••••,.•,•,•.•,•,•.~~.\'•'•~t''o'•' •'• o •: • • • • • '4 Commentary: The Consequences of Thinking by R.B. THAU and ARNIE HILLER ·vocationally oriented ·education. learning, but no students. It is Marketable skills are desirable probably better to have many at all times and even more so in students and little thinking, as we periods of a depressed economy. have in education now, than few Competency-based learning leads students and the potential for in that direction by accentuating thinking. cogitative over memorization A second problem with this processes. innovative concept, thought not There are certain problems as severe as the first, could also inherent in the concept of have malignant consequences. If competency-based learning. First, thinking were a necessity for the evaluation process revolves college students, then plagiarism around the assumption that would be eliminated because there students enter college with the is no original thought involved in ability to think, an assumption. that · process. Eliminating that. at present, is unsupported plagiarism would then eliminate factually. To presume college the need for books to steal from, students capable of the thought and libraries to house those process elevates them above the books. If there were no libraries, leaders of our society, who need students would have no place to not think, only govern. This latter socialize and meet each other. belief is so well documented as to Herein lies the predicament: Who be accepted as fact. This radical would want to go to a college if hypothesis would have frightening there were no socializing possible? consequences for· competency- Thus, by teaching students to based learning, for if college think, our venerable and staid students were considered intellec- institutions of higher learning tually superior to our leaders in would be suicidal. government and industry, they Where does this leave 'Us? would no longer be considered a Pertinent and relevant education threat to the establishment. Once orientated towards a specific job colleges lost their reputations as or particular aspiration must bastions of liberalism and for utilize rumination and cogitation outspoken criticism of the failures to attain these ends. But in of our system, their appeal to teaching students to think, prospective students would be coLleges sign their own execution greatly diminished and orders. Wearethereforeleftwith matriculation rates would no alternative but to reject plummet. We would then be left competency-based learning with a very successfuL tried-and- because it fosters thinking,. and true concept of ~ompete~cy-based thinking precipitates destruction. What kind of a man reads Concordy? A man knows where his head is at. Fact: More fi'eop/e Concordy than date Union women. who read

f- of to to nt us to Of ly- a ser to a ne, is of est elf- ny ave icle of ton to pre- of the not rely If our on new Let bott 1) l. ~ {' i \ CONCORD!ENSIS, Wednesday, Apri/9, 1975 Page 3 Commentary: Brain ~rrtnus lhe Consequences l..---~e~a~ges Intercourse ... of Thinking Sexual and Social by Vi Last term Concordy sought to uncover \moral turpitude\ among the facultr and, after {indin;: no nookie nearhr, turned inwards, in rep;min;:. on the .so-called \Harrad Experimet~t at Union Colle:;e.\ Parental reaction demands a few clar({ications. Mom and Dad. coed lil'in;: on I he(ourth floor of West \\'as in no way desi:;ned to promote heterosexual or other hehavior by students at Union Colle:;e. I11e plan was a novelty, desi;:ned for on~r social intercourse, not those \nau;:hties\ you missed H'hen .l'OU were )'OU/11{. The intent or the re.'f}dents was to switch rooms (or three days to promote closer living. A communist plot? Twelve people are re;:istered Repuhlicans, j(JUrteen are Democrats. and three aspire to he nuns. Besides, dear ·parents, no one needs a \Harrad Plan,\ or even a divorce il you're married. We inl'ite you to read the(ol!mrinKfor ll'hat it's worth: it heats Reader's Digest any day. The Union College \Harrad Experiment,\ scheduled by fourth floor West this week. has heen abandoned in the face of \mounting opposition hy the College and parents.\ according to a participant of the plan. The plan. consented to hy all its participants, was not considered to jeopardi7e or encourage sexual behavior of any nature on this campus. But at least one skeptical parent stated. \We know hetter.\ Soft On Sex Dean Mark Mith. who nri~inally approved the Union Harrad Plan. was reportedly flooded with vehement letters and obscene phone calls from irate parents. In reversing his policy of support, Mith ~aid. \Don't do what I told vou, do what I tell vou.\ Participants of the plan march~d on M ith's offic;, where he told them. \I supported you. It wasn't my fault. That damned Concordy revealed all the secrets.\ Cheering students waved placards saying \Perish - Don't Publish!\ Cover Up? Reaction against Union's Harrad Plan mushroomed after Concordy unbarred the plan in its March 19th issue. Students claim that the plan would have been implemented without interruption. were it not for public revelations. One administrative source said. \If things were kept quiet on this campus. we could have a balL\ That source further commented. \We. at the Administration get away with more than the students. They come here to get an education. Why can't they learn from us?\ The spokesman pointed to covert projects such as campus reorganitation plans. the Characterintion Research Project. and the NHL training camp. \We had prople fired from their jobs six months before thev knew it.\ he hoasted. But for the p~esent. Harrad is a source of punlement and embarrassment to penple in high places. Despite the controversy. the -;pokesman felt that Concordy had hl(lwn it and \what they don't know can't hurt them.\ Concordy categorically denied all the charge~ and hopes to receive a commendation for its efforts to get the facb from a former ll.S. Vice President. Reporh emcr~cd that a Task force would he created to look into ;tllej!ed -;exual \Hon~doin~s and press kab of semitive information. Critic. of the committee immediately charged ··cover up.\ althou~h it could not he a~certained if ~uch a committee would he formed at all. The Schencctadv County Di\ 's office has nnt planned any indictment-. in connection with the l !nion Harrad Plan. hut one -.pnkesman ... aid. ••We're lnokin!! into some pretty cute sodomy ca~e..;, . .., College Crackdown The move against the Hemad Plan follows an increasing trend on campus to crack down on potential deviancy by nipping it in the hud. As one administrator said. \We have to plan for the hard times ahead.\ Vissihility seems to he the key to regulation of behavior. Campus crackdowns have included discouraging students from bringing hard-core and other films to campus such as \Saliva.\ \Nostrils.\ and the academicallv-oriented flick \Slide Rule\: The \X-Files a clandestine cnllecti<;n of sex-related lexts and other materials is kept under lock and key in Schaffer Library. Ask your librarian. If you speak softly. she knows. by R.B. THAU and ARNIE HILLER l n an effort to redefine and expl.icate the goals of a liberal arts education along pragmatic rather than abstract lines. many small colleges throughout the nation are experimenting witt! an innovative form of education kFlown as competency-based learning. These experiments have recently taken on an added significaNce due to the inexorable increase in unemployment, as the programs prepare students better for the reality of the world outside their college communities, and for the difficulties attached to obtaining a skilled job in these recessionary times. vocati<maHv orieNted education. Marketable skiHs are desirable at all times and t:ven more so in periods of a depressed economy. C()rnpetency-based learning leads in that direction by accentuating cogitative over memorization processes. lhere are certain problems inherent in the concept of competency-based learning. First. the eYaluation process revolves around the assumption that students enter college with the abilitv to think, an assumption that.· at present, is unsupported factually. To presume college students capable of the thought process elevates them above the leaders of our society, who need not think. only govern. This latter belief is so well documented as to he accepted as fact. This radical hypothesis would have frightening consequences for competency- based learning, for if college students were considered intellec- tually superior to our leaders in government and industry, they would no longer be considered a threat to the establishment. Once colleges lost their reputations as bastions of liberalism and for nutspoken criticism of the failures uf our system, their appeal to prospective students would be greatly diminished and matriculation rates would plummet. We would then be left with a very successful tried-and- true concept of competency-based Competency-based learning revolves around the premise of evaluating students on their ahihty to communicate well, solve problems. and show ethical awareness rather than the traditional testing of factual content of courses. Success and progress of individuals are measured not in grades or credits, but in competence-level units which test student ability in such areas as communicative and problem-solving skills, analytical capabilities. social interaction and value judgements. responsiveness towards the arts and humanities, and awareness of one's surroundings. The focus of these programs emphasizes the intellectual or cognitive process rather than rote memorization, with further stress placed on Parents' Weekend Parents' Weekend this year will he May 9-10-llth. Among the scheduled events for the weekend is an outdoor picnic lunch catered hy Maurice's. to be held after the av.ard ceremony on Saturday. All students. parents. faculty and staff are invited to attend. On Saturday night Count Hasie and his orchestra wjll he g1vmg a concert and dance in the Fieldhouse. Hy this time all parents have received a letter concerning Parents' Weekend and the schedule of events. and may already he planning to attend the weekend. f-or both lunch and the concert it is necessary to obtain tickets. I ickets may he picked up in the Student Activities Office of Old Gvm Hall with Mrs. Marra from April 23rd until May 9th. Lunch tickets are $1 .00 per person: any number of lunch tickets is available to each student. learning. hut no students. It 1s prohahly hetter to have many students and little thinking, as we have in education now, than few students and the potential lor thinking. A second problem with this innovative concept. thought not as severe as the first, could also have malignant con;;eyuences. If thinking were a necessity for college students, then plagiarism would he eliminated because there is no original thought involved in that process. Eliminating plagiarism would then eliminate the need for books to steal from. and libraries to house those hooks. If there Viere no libraries, students would have no place to socialize and meet each other. Herein lies the predicament: Who would want to go to a college if there were no socializiHg possible? Thus. hy teJching students to thiHk. our venerable and staid institutions of higher learning would be suicidal. Where does this leave ·us'? Pertinent and relevant education orientated towards a specific Job or particular aspiration must utilize rumination and cogitation to attain these ends. But in teaching students to think, colleges sign their own execution orders. We are therefore left with no alternative but to reject competency-based learning because it fosters thinking, and thinking precipitates destruction. '::·:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:;:;::::::::::::::::::~:::;.;::::::::::::::::.:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::·· ( · ( mcc rt tick ct s w iII a I so be ~:\: Nominations for the Class period will cover one week :~:~ available at this time. The concert ;:;: of 1975 representative to the terminating on the day of the ~:~: is free nf charge to students. :;:; Alumni Council of Union senior meeting regarding :;:; parents. faculty. and staff. Each } College will be accepted in the Commencement (usually held f ~tudent tnay obtain nne concert ;:;: Alumni Office, in person or by in mid-May). No specific date :;:; ticket for himself nr hersell and :;:; mail, from March 15 through has been set for that meeting :;:; t\\O adrJitional lor parents. :;:; April 15. A description of the but an announcement of the :;:: Facu'lly and staff may pick up ;:;: Council and the duties of meeting will be enclosed in the :;:; two tickets. For parents who have :\:\.the Alumni Council Rep- ballots distributed to seniors. !:~: not acquired tickets bel ore May :;:; resentative (ACR) are Anyone with questions :~:~ 9th. tickets will be available on ;:;: included in the \Alumni regarding the office or the ;::: Friday evening and Saturday :;:; Handbook 1975,\ which was election should contact ;:;: morning in Hale House Lounge. :::: mailed to all seniors in mid- Assistant Alumni Director Bill ;:;: A more detailed schedule tor What kind of a man reads Concordy? A man who k 1101rs 1rherc his head is a 1. Fact: .\lore peor1/e read foncordy than date [.'nion women. :;!; February. Kuchta in Lamont House.• :~:~ the weekend will he printed soon. :;:: This year, the election :;:: ·::::~ ~;:;!;:::;:;:::;:;:=:;:;:;:::;:::::::::::::::::::::::::~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:::::::,.;:

,. Page 4 There's something interesting going on with the Union College Mountebanks that I think you ought to know about. We're going public! How would you like some first-hand experience in business management, public relations, accounting; experience as a historian; or with the theatre itse!f? CONCORDIENSIS, Wednesday, Apri/9, 1975 • • • • • • • I'm going to tell you about a surpriseu. on Monday, April 21st,. in the decaying Nott Memorial a:t 7:30p.m. Move in a little closer. /.don't want you to miss out on any information because your eyes were too far from the page. This means you! / All you need is art interest. (f you are willing to commit yourse~f, the Mountebanks may be just what you want! There is a very . good chance that you could become an officer for the Mountebanks! We are -opening up the elections to any and all interested students! Application blanks are in Mrs. Marra's office · (Student Activities). Nominate yourse!f or a friend. You certainly ... wouldn't want to miss out on a chance for public office, would you? All and any supporters of the LIVELY ARTS at Union will meet to b!ing alive the ideas that have been kicking around campus. Barry Smith and others will present the future of performing arts at Union:. All Mountebankers, Cabareters, performers of any kind, and supporters of ,performers should be there. SO WHAT'S THE SURPRISE?? If I told you, it wouldn't be a • surprise ... come find out. •

I j i :' I! . \ II I fl ' :I ''! i \ •

• • I • • • I i g I I • I • I • I • I = •· i • I I • • I • I • • • • • • • I .cl I •• • • I • • • • • I • I • I • • I Ill I • I ! • I I· • -i i • • • • I • I • I • Ill I • I I • • I • I ! ! • • II I • • , .. s • I . ._. • y I Jr I •• • I • • I I • • • I • I • • • • I • ! I • I Ill Ill I II I • ! •· I I • ·~· CONCORD1ENS!S, Wednesday, April9, 1975 PageS ·- - ~----------...;;:.--~ This work, by Todd Cavalier, is part of a collection of works by Union Students currently an display in the Union Gallery. The show will last until April 22. The Gallery is in Schaffer Library and is open .from 2:00 to 5:00 daily Wednesday to Sunday . Records: German Group Flops by MIKE AFFINITO - . Hi Jack is Amon Dl!ul Irs .emphasis o'n the bass guitar of eighth album and their first on Lothar Meid. I can tolerate an the Atlantic label. The band is a overriding bass provided that it is German group which was formed of 'good quality and is sufficiently in 1966 and released its first varied to be appealing to the album in 1969. Since then the listener. I am not suggesting that group's personnel and character the bass player should assume the have been through extensive, but role of Dave Bromberg and never permanent.change. 'f.:here is perform acrobatic feats of manual no doubt that Amon Duul II is dexterity, however if the bass line one of the premiere companies in is to be accentuated in a number European rock music. I am, it should not be so repetitive as to however, hesitant to believe that bore the listene·r. the style of music the group' plays Lyrically, AD U seems to have will be widely accepted into the been influenced by David Bowie's sphere of American music. strange manner of expression. AD II seems to be about 4 This is best evidenced in \Explode years -late in their release of Hi Like a Star\ and \Archy the Jack. The album consistll of Robot,\ the most cosmic of their mainly cosmic, chaotic, electric space-rockers. All the songs seem music. The form is not unlike to be a rehash of too-often some \Deep Purple\ and \Pink discussed topics and themes of Floyd\ numbers 1 have heard. existence. There seems to be no While \Floyd\ did start off by inspirational creativity . us.ing some. very weird Technically, the album is .a instrumental and verbal forms of disaster. The mixing is poorly expression, they have since done and the sound of the disc in evolved to a much higher level of general is very muddy and not musical awareness not evident at enjoyable. either segment nor are they repri~ed. Concentration on the talents of these two individuals seems to be lost as the group strives for eerie and bizarre overtones in their work. Possibly a song such as \Archy the Robot\ might reach the top 40 charts, and maybe AD II will amass a following of young teens and hangers-on from a dying era in music. I believe, though, that the shift of emphasis in American music has left AD II and their flamboyant style behind m Deutsch land . the group's inception. In AD Irs The one redeeming quality of case, I cannot see how they expect the album would have to be the to establish themselves in the field instrumental soloists, Chris of electronic music, since the- Karrer on sax and O!af Kubler on trend seems to be to move out of flute. These two men exhibit their this realm and into the realm of talents in short segments of more basic forms of music, both '' L one l y W o ma n •' a n d technically and lyrically. \Traveller respectively. We do AD II seems to place a great not, however, hear enough in April 10: C.W. Eichelberger, \Microprocessors: Hardware Considerations,\ 8 pill, SS016, Union • by~ ALLACE McAFFY COFF[EHOUSES rts World Premiere: MountieS to Present \Pledges'' ' Pledges, a play by Ted Snowdon, is currently being produced under the auspices of Union's New American Playwrights Program. Pledges was selected· from over 250 plays submitted by playwrights across the nation in response to the program. Never before staged, the p.lay will receive its first production under the direction of Bob Harders, Union's Community Development Intern and director of the New American Playwrights program. Nott Memorial Theater . Copies of Pledges are available on reserve at the library or in the Green Room. No experience is necessary to audition; all are welcome . Pledges is set in a fraternity in a small New England college during the fall semester of 1965. The actiori of the play spans seven weeks of pledging activities culminating in Hell Week. A vivid portrait o~ fraternity life is captured in this tension-filled drama. More than this, Pledges offers a penetrating view of the institutions which men form and the relationships which are the lifeblood of such institutions. The play requires twelve men; seven Brethren and five pledges. Auditions will be held Wednesday and Thursday, April 9 and 10, from 3:00 to 5:00 p.m. and from 7:00 to I 0:0 p.m. Sign-up sheets are posted in the Green Room of Coffeehouse The Union College Coffee- house has had a long-time tradition of bringing folk and folk-rock performers to the campus. Unfortunately, the Coffeehouse is in danger of collapsing without the help of the student body. A committee is needed to help in all aspects of the Coffeehouse. People are needed to help with publicity, setting-up, buying food, and booking performers. The responsibility now falls upon too few individuals to ensure the outcome of fine performances . Without student help, there may no longer be a place where, .on Friday evenings, one may really find pleasure ~nd relaxation as well as excitement. Any interested students should call Ruth Rappaport at 370-6487. _ The fun is non-stop at the student:faculty square dance; just one do-si-do after another! April 18-19: Andy Conen, folksinger and instrumentalist, 9 pm, Eighth Step. MUSIC April 10: Ambassador Amos Ganor, Dep. Consul General of Israel, 8 pm, Old Chapel, Union. April 10: Sakokwen0nkwas, \The Plight of the Native American,\ 8 pm. Campus Center Ballroom. SUNY A. April 10: Robert Ebendorf on metalwork, Slide April 9-10: Chris Holder. life and times of Woody Guthrie through songs and stories, 8:30 prn, Caffe Lena, 47 Phila St., Saratoga. April 10: Jim Brewer, blues, 8:30 pm, Lively Lucy's April 10: Free Music Store presents: Eberhart Blum. flute. 8:30 pm, Recital Hall, Performing Arts Center. SUNY A, Free. . April 11: Luther Allison. blues, 8 pm, McNeil Room, Lecture, Ladd Hall Rm. 307, 8 pm, Skidmore . April 12: l'eter Tobiessen, Ruth Klepper, and Mrs. Valentine, \Population Control\~ 11:30 am-12:30 pm, Campus Center, Room CC33-3, SUNY A. April12: Linda Hitchcock. \Geography of Starvation,\ 1:30-2:30 pm, Campus Center, CC370, SUNY A. April 12: \Alternative Sources of Energy: Solar, Wind, and Methane Power.\ 2:30-4 pm, CC375. SUNYA. THEATRE April9-10: Theatre in Der Jasefstadt production of Das Konzert, performed in German, 8 pm. Main Theatre, PAC SUNY A. 457-8360. -April 11: Lucia, 8 pm, Draper Hall Auditorium, Coffeehouse, Skidmore. April 11: Harry Tuft, folk: contemporary, traditional, ballads. etc., 9 pm, $2.00, Ei.ghth Step Coffeehouse, 14 Willet St., Albany. 434-1703. April 11·12: Andy Avery, folk, Freeze Dried Coffeehouse, Campus Center Assembly Hall, SUNY A, 457-6923. . April 11-13: Jim Brewer, blues, 8:30 pm, Caffe Lena, Saratoga. 584-9789-. April 12: Bottle Hill, 8:30 pm, Bethlehem Coffeehouse, 125 Adams St.. Delmar. 439-9827. April 12: Ray Frank, folk, 9 pm. Eighth Step Coffeehouse, Albany. · APRJ:L 12: BILL STAINES, 8:30pm! OLD CliAPEL, SUNYA. . April 11-12: Six Characters in performed in German, 8 pm, SUNY A. UNION. Search of an Author, Main Theatre, PAC. April 16: Si Bronner, traditional folk, 8:30pm, Eighth Step Coffeehouse, Albany. Student Union, RPI. · ., Aprilll: Santana, P<!lace Theatre. Albany. 465-3333 . APRIL 11: THE B.S.A. PRESENTS: \DONALD BYRD AND THE BLACKBIRDS\ ADVANCE TICKETS IN THE STUDENT ACTIViTIES OFFICE $3.50, 9 pm, MEMORIAL CHAPEL, UNION. SPECIAL EVENTS FORTHCOMING . This term the Union College Glee Club has started a best-of-three \Battle Royale\ with Wheaton College. The first match is slated for April 27 at Wheaton, the return ma~ch at Union on May 3, and, if nec~ary. a final and tellmg battle will be fought on neutral ground in NYC on May 7. Good luck boys! And remember, you're facing the \Crenm of Wheaton:;

•• • I I • I • II • • = • • • = I • = • • • II I Ill II • • II = • • II • •· II ! • II = • • • II II II II . • = II = • I •• I II! I II II • • • • Ill I II • II = II II II • I • ! I --. II II • • • • • • • • • • II • I • • = • • • • Ill • • = \' . • • • • I • I • = \= I II • • • II s • • e I • r\\ • • r I II • • • • II • II Ill • • • • II • • II • • • • = • • = • = • II • II • • II II • • • = II • II • II • ! t. = ~= ' '' i I , I I l' \ ), ! I '· ) CONCORD!ENS!S, Wednesday, Apri/9, 1975 Page5 - ...... __________ __;,. __ ~ arts World Premiere: Mounties· to Present \Pledges\ Pledges. a play by led Snowdon, is currently being produced under the auspices of Union's New American Playwrights Program. Pledges was selected from over 250 plays shl bmi tted by playwrights across the nation in response to the program. Never before staged, the play will receive its first production under the direction of Bob Harders, Union's Community Development Intern and director of the New American Playwrights program. This work, hy Todd Cavalier, is part of a collection of works by Union Students currently on display in the Union Gallery. The show will last until April 22. The Gallery is in Schaffer Library and is open from 2:00 to 5:00 daily Wednesday to Sunday. Pledges is set in a fraternity in a small New England college during the fall semester of 1965. The action of the play spans seven weeks of pledging activities culminating in Hell Week. A vivid portrait o( fraternity life is captured in this tension-filled drama. More than this, Pledges offers a penetrating view of the institutions which men form and the relationships which are the lifeblood of such institutions. Records: German Group Flops Hi Jack is Amon Duul I I's eighth album and their first on the Atlantic label. The band is a German group which was formed in \966 and released its first alhum in 1969. Since then the group's personnel and character ha\c heen through extenstve. hut never permanent change. I here is no doubt that Amon Duul II is one ol the premiere companies in Furopean rock music. I am, however. hesttant to believe that the style of music the group' plays will he widely accepted into the sphere of American music. by MIKE AFFINITO emphasis on the bass guitar of Lothar Meid. I can tolerate an overriding bass provided that it is of good quality and is sufficiently varied to he appealing to the listener. I am not suggesting that the bass player should assume the role ot Dave Bromberg and perform acrobatic teats of manual dexterit\', however if the hass line is to he accentuated in a number it should not he so repetitive as to bore the listener. Lyrically, AD II seems to have been inf1uenccd by David Bowie's strange manner of expression. this is hest evidenced in \Explode !.ike a Star\ and \Archy the Robot,\ the most cosmic of their space-rockers. All the songs seem tn he a rehash ol too-olten di~cussed topics and themes ot existence. I here seems to he no inspirational creativity. I echnicallv. the alhum is a disaster. I he mixing is poorly done and the sound ol the disc 10 general is very muddy and not enjoyable either segment nor are they reprised. Concentration on the talents of these two individuals seems to he lost as the group strives for eerie and hi1arre overtones in their work. Possibly a song such as \An.:hy the Robot\ might reach the top 40 charts, and maybe t\ll II will amas;, a following nl young teens and hangers-on from a dying era tn music. I helie\e. though. that the shift of emphasis m American music has left AD II and their flamboyant style behind tn Deutschland. Want to spend the 75-76' school year as .. an intern in the Work- Study program of the Cerebral Palsy Assn. of Montgomery County in Suburban Washington, D.C.'? The Association is presently accepting applications for the one-year Intern Program for 75-76 . The play requires twelve men; seven Brethren and five pledges. Auditions will be held Wednesday and Thursday. April 9 and 10, from 3:00 to 5:00 p.m. and from 7:00 to 10:0 p.m. Sign-up sheets are posted in the Green Room of The Interns are fully maintained by the Association. At the completion of the lnte~ship, one· will teceive a $Hl00 seh0i~tshl.p ·for·.future edUcation,' . ·Atte!fid:clfl:sse~ <;l~ririg the.evening, : apd'jrossib'ly :¢arn ·lip .•to: :24·hq'U~s · o(coll~~et~\Jifr;-. · ... ·····.· .. · ... ·.· .. Nott Memorial ·1 heater. Copies of Pledges arc available on reserve at the library or in the GreeR Room. ;-.;o experience is necessary to auditioR; all are welcome. Coffeehouse The Union College Coffee- house has had a long-time tradition of bringing folk and folk-rock performers to the campus. Unfortunately. the Coffeehouse is in danger of collapsing without the help of the student body. A committee is needed to help in all aspects of the Coffeehouse. People are needed to help with publicity. setting-up. buying food. and hooking performers. The responsibility now falls upon too few individuals to ensure the outcome of fine performances. W ithohlt student help, there may no laRger he a place where, .on Friday evenings, one may really find pleasure and relaxation as well as excitement. Anv interested students should ~all Ruth Rappaport at 370-64~0. AD II seems to be about 4 years .\ate in their release of Hi Jack. I he album consists of mainly cosmic. chaotic. electric music. I he lorm is not unlike some \Deep Purple\ and \Pink l·lovd\ numbers I ha\e heard. Whtk \!·loyd\ did start oft h} ustng some \cry v.cird instrumental and \crhal lorms ot expresswn. they have smce evolved to a much higher level of musical awareness not evident at the group's inception. In AD Irs case, I cannot see how they expect to establish themselves in the field of electronic music, since the trend seems to be to move out of this realm and into the realm of more basic forms of music, both technically and lyrically. AD 11 seems to place a great the one redeeming quality of the album would have to be the instrumental soloists, Chris Karrer on sax and Olaf Kubler on flute. These two men exhibit their talents in short segments of \Lonely Woman\ an<l \Traveller respectively. We do not. however, hear enough in ~t·-~ . The fun is non-stop at the student~(aculty square dance; just one do-si-do after another! April 10: C.W. Eichelberger, \Microprocessors: Hardware Considerations,\ 8 pm, SS016, Union . April 10: Ambassador Amos Ganor, Dep. Consul General of Israel, 8 pm, Old Chapel, Union. April 10: Sakokwenonkwas, \The Plight of the Native American,\ 8 pm. Campus Center Ballroom, SUNY A . April 10: Robert Ehendorf on metalwork, Slide Lecture. Ladd Hall Rm. 307, 8 pm. Skidmore. April 12: Peter Tobiessen, Ruth Klepper. and Mrs . Valentine, \Population Control\ 11:30 am-12:30 pm, Campus Center. Room CC333. SUNY A . April 12: l.inda Hitchcock, \Geography of Starvation.\ \:30-2:30 pm. Campus Center. CC370, SUNY A. April 12: \Alternative Sources of Energy: Solar. Wind. and Methane Power.\ 2:30-4 pm. CCJ75, SUNY A . THEATRE April9-l0: Theatre in Der .Jasefstadt pr(lduction of Das Konzert performed in German. R pm. Main Theatre. PAC. SUNY A. 457-R360. April 11: Lucia, K pm. Draper Hall Auditorium . Sti:'JYA. April tt-12: Six Characters in Search of an Author, performed in (ierman. R pm. Main Theatre. PAC, StiNYA. by WALLACE McAFFY COFFEEHOUSES April 9-10: Chris Holder. life and times of Woodv Guthrie through songs and stories, R:30 pm. Caffe Len~. 47 Phila St., Saratoga. April 10: Jim Brewer, blues. 8:30 pm, Lively Lucy's Coffeehouse. Skidmore. April 11: Harry Tuft. folk: contemporary. traditional. ballads. etc .. 9 pm. $2.00. Fi.ghth Step Coffeehouse. 14 Willet St.. Alha ny. 434-1703. April 11-12: Andy Avery. folk. Free?e Dried Coffeehouse. Campus Center t\ssemhlv Hall. SllNY A . 457-692l . April 11-13: .lim Rrcwer. blues. R:30 pm. Caffc Lena. Sarato)!a. 5R4-97R9. April 12: Bottle Hill, R:30 pm. Bethlehem Coffeehouse . 125 Adams St.. Delmar. 439-9827. April 12: Ray Frank. folk. 9 pm. Eighth Step Coffeehouse. Albany. APRil~ 12: BILL STAINES, 8:30pm, OLD CHAPEt, UNION. April 16: Si Rronner. traditional folk. R:30 pm. fi~hth Step Coffeehou-.c. A\hany. and MUSIC April 10: Free Music Store presents: Eberhart Blum. Oute. 8:30 pm. Recital Hall, Performing Arts Center . Sl'NY A. Free . April 11: Luther Allison. blues. 8 pm. McNeil Room, Student llni(ln, R Pl. .. Aprillt: Santana. Palace Theatre. Albanv. 465-3333. APRIL 11: THE B.S.A. PRESENTS: \DONALD BYRD AND THE BLACKBIRDS,\ ADVANCE TICKETS IN THE STUDENT ACTIVITIES OFFICE $3.50, 9 pm, MEMORIAL CHAPEL, UNION. SPECIAL EVENTS FORTHCOMING This term the llnion College Glee Club has started a best-of-three \Battle Royale\ with Wheaton College. The first match is slated for April 27 at Wheaton, the return match at llnion on May 3, and, if necessary, a final and telling battle will be fought on neutral ground in NY\ on May 7. Good luck boys! And remember, you're faring the \Cream of Wheaton.\

•' Page 6 CONCORDIENSIS, Wednesday, Apri/9, 1975 Union in the Midst -of· the Revolution: ::by MATT BRIEF Nixon burned in effigy; 600 students march to main gate of G E; I 200 march through Schenectady and canvass community, students. block off ROTC headquarters, and demand its expulsion from campus; Stqdent Social Action Committee organiz.es marches, rallies, peace fasts~ ISO Union students hand in draft cards, Students demand new academic programs. It happened !lere. Union C<Jllege. Barry Katzman, Danny Shockett, Louis Liebhaber, Paul Galdson - there were not the m.ost famous radicals <Jf the times, yet they and students like them had a profound effect upon Union College that lingers unto this very day. As in so many other college campuses across the country, U.S. involvement in VietNam touched off a revolution at Union. Along with numerous forms of protest against the war came cries for environmental improvements, academic upheavals, and a student voice in college governance. How many times has one heard about the apathy on this campus? The lack of participation and lack of concern for issues both in- ternal and external to the College is painfully evident. The radicalism of the late 60's and early 70's has vanished. From the period October 3rd, 1969 to October 16, 1970, Union was visited by such prominent speakers as George McGovern, Bruno Bettelheim, Max Frankel, Julian Bond, Adam Walinsky, Benjamin Spock, Charles Evers, and William Kunstler. These men spoke to packed houses in Memodal ChapeL When ex- President Harold Martin considered refusing to let Kunstler speak, a barrage. of student opinion quickly made him cl~~~~ his mi~d. The Anti-War Moratorium of October 15, 1969 was accompanied by activism at Union. The Student Social Action Committee arranged forums and seminars on the war, anti-war documentaries were shown, a Viet Nam veteran spoke, as did Dick Gregory in a program arranged with Siena. The Social Action Committee and the Student Senate requested that classes be suspended on that day; although the request was denied by Pres. Martin and the faculty, the fa-culty agreed to go lightly. There was strong support for the Moratorium amongst Faculty. Professors Hartwig, Sharlet, Thurston, Hansen, Roth, Wilson, Rappaport, Butzel~ George, Neal Allen, Daniels, Jonas, Nichols, Potts, Berk, Prosper, Bittleman, Shinagel, Ludwig, Ullman, Martin, Styles, and others gave support to the Moratorium. On October 15, 3.;000 people, including 1200 Union students, marched down State Street, carrying placards and shouting various peace cries. On October 28, George McGe>vern spoke in Memorial Chapel and called for a 50% reduction in the defense budget and an immediate withdrawal from S.E. Asia. A ~ full program was also planned for the November Moratorium. It consisted of a one-hour vigil for veterans in which the names of the local war dead were read at Veterans Park. Zorba's Restaurant ' 140 Jay St. Breakfast Special $1.50 2 Eggs & Bacon, Ham, or Sausage & Home Fries & Coffee OR Wheat Cakes OR French Toast Luncli Special $1.60 ·1.1.1 lb. Sandwich & Soup & Coffee • Dinner Steaks,. Chops, Seafood hy Menu An anti-war film was shown at 4:30, at 7:30 faculty fcrums were held, there was a peace rally at 9:00 in Library Plaza, and at 10:30 buses took 125 students to Washington. Three-quarters of the student body wore black armbands. Yet the war did not dominate the students' .cries for change. Students demanded and received a pass-fail provision and visiting hours were done away with. An active movement picketed the ROTC headquartr:rs ~md demanded that it be removed. An article in Concordy on November 25th mourned the death of Frats. The entire climate of the ·- campus was differeant then. Confrontations with ROTC students occurred on a regular basis. In April of 1970, President Martin announced that ROTC's presence on campus would be terminated as of June, 1971. Student government, now an object of scorn, garnered considerable interest. Hundreds would gather to hear student leaders' plans and goals for the campus. Heavily-attended · symposia were held or \iet Nam, Pollution, Abortion, and other maJor Issues. On May 1st, Alan Gyurko organized a Be-In in front of the Nott Memorial. The high£ight of this affair, attended by several hundred students, was the burning of Nixon in effigy. The event attracted national coverage. May 4th, 1970, was the day of the Kent State murders. Concordy, which at the time covered issues on the world and national scene as well as the campus scene, put out a special edition decrying the murders, calling for the flag to be at half- mast for a month, and announcing the cancellation of classes for the next day. There were seminars, rallies, and a massive canvassing of the community. 600 students marched on the main gate of GE and confronted angry workers. Violence was kept to a minimum. That week's edition of Conc01:dy was filled with letters crtticizing Nixon. _ The atmosphere was frenzied on campus; all. course requirements were altered by demand of the stud-ent government. There was an overwhelming student desire to work for candidates and examine the current issues. It was decided that a student could withdraw, t~ke an incomplete,.\'or pass-fail in any course if he opted to do an independent study instead. 150 Union students 'turned in their draft cards, a federal offense. This action also received national coverage. Things are diffeFent now. Students assert the-mselves less as . . -leVI'S ·rewest Lunch 715 ALBANY ST. The otn.• lunth ·In the area. More than 50 yars we Hn't First, Prize ltot dop wi1h the Clfillnal ,_OUI sauce.· Also difrerent tpeelal dlmleri ev~yctay. We an opea 7 day• a week .... weekend t1U 4. Vilit Newest Luneh. Good Dlace to Eat. · TYPING Reasonable Rates Fast Ser\lice' 393-2.233 These symbols of protest, the peace armbands, were a sign of radicalism that raised the brows of every \decent\ American when they decked the arms of-these UCollstudents at the 1970 commencement. a voice in the College. Guest· lecturers are often poorly attended while people study to get the grades for grad school Symposia have vanished. (with the exception of the History and Phi Beta Kappa symposia of winter term.) The Frats may .not be booming, but their demise is highly imporbable. · J _ Rev. Theodore Hesburgh was quoted in a N.Y._ Ti~es editorial rrexas instrument SR_-50 $ 97.95 including Tax SR-51 $179.95 including Tax Call 371-4893 or. Dave ProuJx 346-9973 Jan. 12th, 1975 as saying, have certainly learned campuses can be too noisy. they can also be too quiet.\ \We that But - an pri lav scr SOl pn P€ pr' ad su an Ia• pr of u 0 la <;c la di a~ cc w et

Paxt> 6 CONCORDIENS!S, Wednesday, Apri/9, 1975 Union in the Midst of· the Revolution· by MATT BRIEF Nixon burned in effigy; 600 students march to main gate of GE: 1200 march through Schenectady and canvass community, students. block off ROTC headquarters, and demand its expulsion from campus; Student Social Action Committee organizes marches, rallies, peace fasts: 150 Union students hand in draft cards, Students demand new academic programs. It happened here. Union College. Barry Katzman, Danny Shackett, Louis Liebhaber, Paul Galdson - there were not the most famous radicals of the times, yet they and students like them had a profound effect upon Union College that lingers unto this very day. As in so many other college campuses across the country, U.S. involvement in Viet N am touched off a revolution at Union. Along with numerous forms of protest against the war came cries for environmental improvements, academic upheavals, and a student votce tn college gt> verna nee. Hnw many times has one heard ahout the apathy on this campus'! I he lack of participation and lack oi concern for issues both in- h:rnal and external to the College i~ painlull) evident. l he radicalism of the late 60\ and early 70's has vanished. hom the period October 3rd, 1969 to October 16, 1970, Union was visited l>y such prominent speakers as George McGovern, Bruno Bettelheim, Max hankel, Julian Bond, Adam Walinsky, Benjamin Spock, Charles Evers, and William Kunstler. These men spoke to packed houses m Memorial Chapel. When ex- President Harold Martin considered refusing to let Kunstler speak, a barrage of student opinion quickly made him cha_':l~~ ~s ~~nd. The Anti-War Moratorium of October !5, 1969 was accompanied by activism at Union. The Student Social Action Committee arranged fomms and seminars on the war, anti-war documentaries were shown, a Viet Nam veteran spoke, as did Dick Gregory in a program arranged with Siena. The Social Action Committee and the Student Senate requested that classes be suspended on that day; although the request was denied by Pres. Martin and the faculty, the faculty agreed to go lightly. There was strong sapport for the Moratorium amongst Faculty. Professors Hartwig, Sharlet, Thurston, Hansen, Roth, Wilson, Rappaport. Butzel, Gwrge, Neal Allen, Daniels. Jonas, !\lichols, Potts, Herk. Prosper, Hittleman, Shinagel, Ludwig, Ullman, Martin, Styles, and others gave support to the Moratorium. On October I 5. 3,000 people, including 1200 Union ~tudents, marched down State Street, carrying placards and shouting various peace cries. On October 2K. George Mc(iovcrn spoke in Memorial Chapel and called for a sori; reduction in the defense hudget and an immediate withdrawal from S.E. Asia. A lull program was also planned for the November Moratorium. It consisted of a one-hour vigil for veterans in which the names of the local war dead were read at Veterans Park. Tli:C Zorba's Restaurant 140 Jay St. Breakfast Special $1.50 2 Eggs & Bacon, Ham, or Sausage & Home Fries & foffee OR Wheat Cakes OR French Toast Lunch Special $1.60 ·~ lh. Sandwich & Soup & Coffee Dinner Steak'>, Chop~. Seafood hy \'lenu An anti-war film was shown at 4:30, at 7:30 faculty forums were held, there was a peace rally at 9:00 in Library Plaza, and at 10:30 buses took 125 students to Washington. Three-qt~arters of the stt~dent body wore black armbands. Yet the war did not dominate the students' cries for change. StudeNts demanded and received a pass-fail provision and visi,tilil.g hours were done away with. An active movement ~icketed the ROTC headquarters and demanded that it be removed. An article in Concordy on November 25th mourned the death of Frats. The entire climate of the campus was differeaNt then. Confrontations with ROTC students occwrred on a regular basis. In April of 1970, President Martin announced that ROTC's presence on campus woald be terminated as of June, 1971. Student government, now an object of scorn, garnered considerable interest. Hundreds would gather to hear student leaders' plans and goals for the campus. Heavily-attended symposia were held or \iet Nam, Pollution, Abortion, and other ma1or ISSUes. On May I st. Alan Gyurko organi1ed a He-In in front of the ~ott Memorial. The highlight of this altair, attended by several hundred students, was the burning of ,\.;ixon in effigy. The event attracted national coverage. May 4th. 1970, was the day of the Kent State murders. ('oncordy, which at the time covered issues on the world and national scene as well as the campus scene, put out a special edition decrying the murders, calling for the flag to be at half- mast for a month, and announcing the cancellation of classes for the next day. There were seminars, rallies, and a massive canvassing of the community. 600 students marched on the main gate of GE and confronted angry workers. Violence was kept to a minimum. That week's edition of Concordy was filled with letters criticizing Nixon. The atmm;phere was frenzied on campus: all course requirements were altered by demand of the student government. There was an overwhelming student desire to work for candidates and examine the current issues. It was decided that a student could withdraw, take an incomplete. or pass-fail in any course if he opted to do an independent study instead. 150 Union students turned in their draft cards, a federal offense. This action also received national coverage. Things are different now. Students assert themselves less as --- One's Mens Shop u ···~Sf.. -. Newest Lunch 715 ALBANY ST. ' I Tbe oldest lunch ·in the area. More than SO years we serve First . Prize hot dogs with the original famous auce. Also different special dinners everyday. We Ire open 7 days a wedk -- ~end tlll 4. Visit Newest Lunch. Good Dlace to Eat. - .. TYPING Reasonable Rates Fast Senice 393 .. 2233 These symhols !~(protest, the peace armhands, H'ere a siKn of radicalism that raised the hrows u( every \decent\ American when they decked the arms()( 1hese UCo/1 students at the 1970 commencement. a voice in the College. Guest lecturers are often poorly attended while people study to get the grades for grad school Symposia have vanished. (with the exception of the History and Phi Beta Kappa symposia of winter term.) The Frats may not he booming, hut their demise is highly imporhable. Rev. Theodore Hesburgh was quoted in a N.Y. Times editorial '\rexas instrument SR-50 $ 97.95 inrludin).' Ia'\ SR-51 $179.95 indudin)! Ia' Call 371-4893 or Dave Proulx 346-9973 Jan_ 12th, 1975 as saying, \We have certainly learned that campuses can be too noisy. But they can also be too quiet.\ 'THEFlLM. ~ ' ·.' • • I. . • COMMITTEE . _, . .- ~ . 200t:A SPACE ODYSSEY · Friday, Apr.U 12. • at lOp.m, Satur$lay~ April13 7; !m5, & n:3u Sunday, April 14 7, 9:15 & 11:30 SS016 75¢ I ~· ! ' I • 1, I !· i ~· a1 pi Ia sc S( p p p a Sl a h p a l ( 1 c I 2 c

e .,, ,' \ CONCORDIENSIS, Wedne;Jday, Apri/9, 1975 Page 7 _pre-Law Society Meets by R.B. tHAU, BETH HELLMERS, and: .A.RNIE · liiLLER There is an absen.ce at Union of an efficient (>rganiz.atien with the primary function of general pre-. laW counseling. Upon careful scrutiny, . one might find that some pevtinent iriformation is presently available through the Political Science ,office, At present,. the tas~ of pre,law advising is dort!! witll virtually no support from the student body · and little financial reward. Pre- la·w advising is ne'\V assigned to a professor who mu.st spend much of his time teaching, at both Union ~nd Albany Law School. Consequently anyene c£t:V.eting law .school is called upon to collect pertinent data concerning law schools, applications, and test dates himself. After approaching various agencies which serve to· facilitate communication with , alumni, it was determined fhat · law school enrollment for graduating seniors SUNY A STlJDENTS TO OFFER LSAT PREP ARATO~Y :· COURSE The student pre-law society of the State U11hersity of New • • · York at Albany plans. to offer ' a comprehensive LSA T review e.ourse starting tilis fall. The· course witl cost under $30.00, with a discount for holders of SUNY A student tax cards. The exact fee,. which will . depend on enti:Jllment, will go · entirely toward paying for instructors' ,salaries and instructional ma(etials. Registration for the course will btke place on the Sta.te University campi.Js during the week of April 14; the ex~ct room and time are still to be announced. The course~ like similar commercial courses, will : consist .of four parts: reading, data interpretatilln, cases and principles, and English. Classe$ will meet Monday and W edoesday nigllts .from 7:00 to 9:00 pm, startin-g August 25 and ending. October 15. For furtiler information, c(mtact R~B. \Jhau 257 Fox, 370-6597. in '73 and '74 is 28 students. At initial meetings, the pre-law society stressed that their major goal is the dissemination of information concerning the law school admission process to all intefested students. Along with a b~sic information d!!ta sheet str.essin.g test dates . and application deadlines, which would be printed bia-nnually, plans call for ex;t.ensive faculty- student representatives visits. To better inform future applicants of t.h!!ir tehi:tive standing i·n regard to previous Union · .students, a handbook will be printed: This annual publication wiU consider tbose schools which attracted the most Union applicants of the previous year. Representatives of the legal field as well as current law school students wilt hopefully be cc;mtacted to provide further comments on law ;;;chool and its uses, in terms of their personal experience. This is not to say that the group colild not be stifkd by temporarY- setbacks_ Among those Co·ed L .. .lVIng Continued from Page 1 school or to call in the police. Some students also objected to the proposal. Because of ,this :outcry against the plan: pressur-e was brought on -to discourage the plan's implementation. Fearing possible legal problems and under attack from all sides of the College community, Dean Smith told representatives of the floor tharif they went through . with their intentions they would have to be called up before the Conduct Committee,. according to Union's anti-cohabitation rules, and that there was also a possibility of legal entanglements. Even though the Schenectady DA's office explained that it is legal for non- minors to room with someone of the opposite sex, it was feared that complaints would be filed with the police. To the best of Dean · Smith's knowledge, however, not one complaint was filed by a parent of a student from the fourth floor. Fourth floor West is still interested in holding its which are often mentioned in regard to Union activities, and may be applicable in this case, are lack of proper funding and general student apathy as well as accusations of .. throatiness\ which any pre-professional society is sure to encounter. However, initial student interest was reflected by high attendance at meetings which occurred at the end of last term as well, this, and good faculty and Administ,rative response, seem to indicate that the need for such organization has been recognized hy the campus community. The next meeting ofthe·pre-law society will occur this Thursday, April 10, at 4:30 in SS 016. lt wjll be a brief meeting an-d will include discussion and possible ratifi<;ation of the society's <!rafted constitu-tion. All interested students, regardless of theiJ; major or post graduate -intent, are encouraged to attend. Mail Room Continued from Page 1 parents of their new box number immediately. Otherwise mail addressed to those residences will be delayed, as it will have to be readdressed with the new box numbers. At present, there 1s a \misdirected mail\ slot in one of the mailroom doors, an \incoming student mail\ slot and an \intercampus mail pickup.\ Any mail which a student receives in his own box but which does not belong. to him should be deposited in the \misdirected mail\ slot beneath the larger fraternity mailboxes in tbe· mailroom. FinaUy, any inter-campus mail to the Registrar, Library, etc. should be left in the bin labelled \outgoing campus mail,\ also below the larger fraternity boxes. The inter-<:ampus mailmen will pick it up. . .f-.o·s ~CY experiment, and invites the Administration and College community to come to them for clarification of any doubts that might still exist. Organizations or offices with student mailings should write the student's name and box number on the front of the mail and deposit it in the student mail bin in· the mailroom. lf the box number is unknown, either the organization should obtain the number from the student; ·or put the unlabeled mail in alphabetical order bv name, to facilitate the mailroom's task of numbering it. Faculty, organizf!tions, and offices are urged to obtain new student box. numbers from the students so that mail will not be delayed and so that the mailroom will be put into fuller use . 'SIUDIRT . DISCOtJNT' , ....... .. .m...;, ...... . . _ 721 ALTAM.ONT AV~. _ .. NO DELIVERY CHARGE~ ._WITH 2 8-CUT PIZZAS : WEDELlVER . - 'UNTIL MIDNIGHT~~~· ORDER 5 PIZZAS .. . .. . G~TONJ:: FR~E.. . ··~ .~ -· -- FOR LIQUOR AND WINE Try kl<e Lips.tein; s 464 Sttte St-:eet FR4 .. tS88 u·nion Auto Supply J 527 Union St. cor Barrett • 346-6200 • 346-6209 featuring COMPLETE LINE OF AUTO PARTS f()r All American & Foreign Cars ()pen Daily M-F 3 a.m.-8 p.m., Sat. 8·5 P.!us Discount for Union Students All mail will be in boxes by I p.m. daily, provided tltere is no delay in the Post Office delivery. E:ach fraternity will have a general box in the mail room. The fraternity president is responsible for picking up the mail each day.Fratemities oil Lenox Road, Edwards House, and Hickok House will still recei:ve most of their mail residentially., provided it is addressed to the Lenox Road address. lf there are any further questions or problems, please see either Rita Morandi, current Manager of the tnailroom, George Palmer, Head Mailman, or Debbie Kilgus, Director of Housing . PETER P;AUSE REST·AURAIT. ;\Student Discount' Mon.-Sat. 5:30· 7:30 535 NOTT ST. BLITHER Lost - A gold monogram ring with an obsidian plate and a silver letter B. Please contact Bart Mercer, Sigma Chi. 346- 9582. * * * * The Union College Speaker's Forum announces its first meeting on Monday, April 14 in SS 115 at 4:30. All those interested in working on the Speaker's Forum must attend. Any questions, co.ntact: Matt Brief, David Eilbott. or Howie Lax. 370-6650, * * * * Middleburv College Activities Board is sponwring its first annual Folk· and Bluegrass Festival and Competition to be held~on Mav 2 and 3. Competition will be limited to the first 30 perfotm~rs. A total of $300. in prize m~me~ will be awarded. April 20 is the deadlme for applicatiOns. For information write: Box 2099, Middlebury College, Middlebury, Vt. 05753. * * * * The Black Students' Alliance Presents: Donald Byrd and the Blackbyrds, April II at 9 pm in Memorial Chapel. Advance sales: $3.50 with ID, $4.50 without Union ID. At the door: $4.00 with ID and $5.00 without. For information call 370-6118. * * * * Santi wiH present informal Jazz Workshops o~ Sunday afternoons, starting Apri1 13 from 2:30-5:30. The sessions will be held in the Cabaret on first floor Carnegie. * * * * We are interested in putting together a blues jam at Carnegie Hall on Saturday night. We are loo.king for guitar players . .keyboards, horn players. baseball players. or any other tvpe of paraphernalia players. Mainly, free-form blues to inci'ude such forms as Chicago blues. British blues, countrv blues. and red. white, and blues. We are serioJs, are vou? Please contact John Lewvta (271-6192) after 6 pm. or ·Mike Montgomery (346-9895). Sessions will he from g pm on Saturdavs~ vou must have your own equipment. . - * * * * Senior Citi7ens Capital Campaign needs student volunteers to help do press work for them. Call Mr. Stauffer at 372• 4439. * * * * The Union College Photographic Society will meet to consider and plan th'is term's activities. Topics to be . discussed include darkroom and camera instn:ctron. distrihutjon of paper and film, new darkroom equipment .including color supplies, and exhibitions. All members and anv interested individuals are urged to attend. Monday, April 14-at 7 pm in HUllS. * * * * A meeting of the International Relations Club wi11 he held on Thursday. April 17 at 4 pm in Strauss Lounge. This meeting is very important and all are invited to attend. * * * * The Schenectady Museum badly needs volunteers as receptionists who will answer telephones, route calls, and give basic information to visitors. Receptionists sit at a desk in the museum lobby and may donate as little as a morning or afternoon of their time. A museum spokesman said that men are a~ welcome as women for the job. Anyone interested sh<mld telephone Mrs. Strull, membership secretary. * * * * Prof. Tobiessen will hire two students this summer for the equivalent of lO weeks each (at $80 per we~k) :or work. on a project in plant ecology. If' interested, see him m S304 m the Science Center for an application. Applications must be returned by April 18 for selection the following week. * * * * The newlv elected WR UC executive board is: Rich Forselius (P~esident and General Manager), Lloyd· Saberski (Station Manager). Ruth Rappaport (Program Director). Steve Reinhardt (Technical Director). * * * * The Cabaret needs your help! Anyone interested in laying the foundar:ion for a Madison Ave. career can begin by working for Cabaret Publicity. Call Rich Straussman at 372· R227. Those with a firmer grasp on reality, looking for vocational experience. are needed to work in the kitchen both Tuesday and Thursday nights. Call Don Amira at 377- 7497. * * * * The International Students' Association of Union College cordiallv invites the Union College community to their Band party. Please invite all interested to come along and enjoy .the fun.. Dress is semi-formal. Refreshments will be served. For information call Johnny Arcentales at 346-9692. The event will be on April 12 at 9 pm in Strauss Lounge. The band will he: Gems of the Future. * * * * Arthur Fraser's current address is Arthur Fraser, Brulay House, Tramore. Co. Waterford, Eire. * * * * .. Part-time jobs in the Athletic Dept. are available for 3 people. rnal~ or female, as assistants to th~ head A~hletic trainer. With increased program, more help IS needed m the Training Room. The job entails protective taping, rehabilitation. and some traveling. lf interested contact John Alden to arrange an interview. * * * * . A meeting for all 1975 Varsity Soccer candidates will be held ihursdav at 2:30 in Block U gym: Election of Captains. . * * * * Summe1' jobs at the Girling center pool: Head lifeguard, three full-time lifeguards, and 0ne part-time lifef!n'lrd are needed. WSI is required and preference wm· be ~1ven to Union undergraduates. Contact Mr. MaGill in the Administration Building before April II. -

at ut l ~. i ' '' I, i ~· f i ' ! \ CONCORD/EN SIS, Wedne.\Jay, Apri/9, 1975 Pre-Law Society Meets by R.B. THAU, BETH HELLMERS, and ARNIE HILLER Thefe is an absence at Union of an efficient organization with the primary fwnction of general pre- law counsding. Upon caFeful scrutiny, one might find that some pertinent information is presently available through the Political Science office. At present; the task of pre-law advising is dolile with virtually no support from the student body and little financial reward. Pre- law advising is now assigned to a professor who ml!lst speno much of his time teaching at both Union and A.lbany Law SchooL Consequently anyone coveting law school is called upon to coHect pertinent data concerning law scho0ls, applications, and test dates himself. After approaching various agencies whidt serve to facilitate communication with alumni, it was determined that law school enrollment for graduating seniors SUNYA STUDENTS TO OFFER tSAT PREPARATORY COURSE The student pre-law society of the State University of New York at Albany plans to offer a comprehensive LSA T review course starting this fall. The course will cost under $30.00, with a discount for holders of SliNY A student tax cards. The exact fee, which will depend on enrollment, will go entirely toward paying for instructors' salaries and instructional materials. Registration for the course will take place on the State University campus during the week of April 14; the exact room and time are still to be announced. The course, like similar commercial courses, will consist of four parts: reading, data interpretation, cases and principles, and English. Classes will meet Monday and Wednesday nights from 7:00 to 9:00 pm, starting August 25 and ending October 15. For further information, contact R.B. Thau, 257 Fox, 370-6597. 721 AL lAMONT AVE. NO DELIVERY CHARGE: WITH 2 8-CUT PIZZAS ' in '73 and '74 is 28 students. At initial meetings, the pre-law society stressed that their major goal is the dissemination of information concerning the law school admission process to all interested students. Along with a basic information data sheet stressing test dates and applicatiou deadlines, which would be printed biannually, plans caJ:l for extensive faculty- student representatives visits. To better inform future appi'icants of their relative standing in regard to previows Union students, a handbook will be printed. This annual publication will consider those schools which attracted the most Union applicants of the previous year. Representatives of the legal field as well as current law school students will hopefully be contacted to provide further comments on law school and its uses. in terms of their personal experience. This is not to say that the group could not be stifled by temporary setbacks. Among those Co-ed Living Continued from Page l school or to call m the police. Some studenb also objected to the proposal. Because of this outcry against the plan. pressure was brought on to discourage the plan's implementation. Fearing possible legal problems and under attack from all sides of the College communitv. Dean Smith told representatives of the floor that if thev went through with their int~ntions they would have to be called up before the Conduct Committee, according to Union's anti-cohabitation rules, and that there was also a possibility of legal entanglements. Even though the Schenectady DA's office explained that it is legal for non- minors to room with someone of the opposite sex. it was feared that complaints would he filed with the police. To the best of Dean Smith's knowledge, however. not one complaint was filed hv a parent of a student from the fourth floor. hmrth floor West is still interested m holding its experiment. and invites the Administration and College community to come to them for clarification of any doubts that might still exist. FOR LIQUOR AND WINE Try Joke Lipstein's WE DELIVER - 1 llNTIL MIDNIGHl :£aD 374-56GG 464 State Street FR4 .. t888 ORDER 5 PI?ZAS\\ · . GFT ONF FREE Union Auto Supply 527 Union St. cor Barrett • 346-6200 • 346-6209 (eaturinK COMPLETE LINE OF AUTO PARTS for All American & Foreign Cars Open Daily M-F 8 a.m.-8 p.m .. Sat. 8-5 flu.\ J)i1count f(Jr [ 'nion Stiu.lt'lll' which are of~en mentioned in regard to Union activities, and may be applicable in this case, are lack of proper funding and general student apathy as well as accusatiotts of \throatiness\ which any pre-professional society is sure to encounter. However, initial student interest was Fetlected by high attendance at meetings which occurred at the end of last term as well, this, and good faculty and Administrative response. seem to indicate that the need for such organization has been recogNized by the campus commtmity. The next meeting of the pre-law societv will occl!lr this Thursday, April-I<J, at 4:30 in SS 016. It w_ill be a brief meeting and will include discussion and possible ratification of the society's drafted constitution. All interested sti!Idents. regardless of their major or post graduate intent, are encouraged to attend. Mail Room Continued ~rom Pa~e 1 parents ol their n~:v. box number immcd iatt:lv. Otherwise mail add re:-.sed to those residence~ will he delavcd. as it will ha'e to he readdre~scd with the new hox number~. At pre~ent. there ~~ a \misdirected mail\ 'lot in one ol the mail room doors, an \mcoming student mail\ slot and an \intercampu~ mail pickup.\ Anv mail which a student receives in -his own box but which does not belong to him should be deposited in the \misdirected mail\ slot beneath the larger fraternity mailboxes m the mailroom. finally. any inter-campus mail to the Registrar, Library, etc. should be left in the bin labelled \outgoing campus mail,\ also below the larger fraternity boxes. The inter-campus mailmen will pick it up. Organitations or offices with ,tudent mailings should write the student's name and box number on the front of the mail and deposit it in the student mail bin in the mailroom. If the box number is unknown, either the organi1ation should obtain the number from the student. or put the unlabeled mail in alphabetical order bv name. to facilitate the mailrooin\ task ol numbering it. ~acuity. organit.ation;,. and pftices arc urged to obtain ne\\ student box numbers from the ,tudenb so thdt mail will not be ddaved and so that the malltot)ffi v.ill.hc put into fuller usc. All mail will be in boxes by I p.m. daily. provided there is no delav in the Post Oft ice delivery. Each lrat~rnitv will have a general box in the mail room. 'I he fraternity president 1s responsible for picking up the mail each dav. ~ raternities on Lenox Road. Edwards House. and Hickok House will still receive most of their mail residentially, provided it is addressed to the Lenox Road address. If there are any further questions or problems, please see either Rita Morandi, current Manager of the mailroom, George Palmer, Head Mailman, or Debbie Kilgus, Director of Housing. PETER PAUSE RESTAURANT ~\Student Discount' Mon.-Sat. 5:30-7:30 535 NOTT ST. , r' / ..<:: Y . .,.;· :.r BLITHER l.o\t 1\ ~old monogram ring with an obsi?ian pla~e and a sil\er letter B. Plea-;e contact Bart Mercer. Stgma Ch1. 346- 95R2. * * * * The Union College Speaker's Forum announces its first meeting on Monday. April 14 in SSII5 at 4:30. All those interested in \lorking on the Speaker's Forum must atten~. Any LJUe~tions. contact: Matt Brief. David Eilhott. or Howte !.ax. 370-6650. * * * * Middlebun; College Activities Board is sponsoring its first annual Folk· and Bluegrass Festival and Competition to be held-nn Mav 2 and 3. Competition will be limited to the first 30 perform.cr,. A total of $300_ in pri7e m~me~· will he awarded. April 20 i~ the deadline for appltcatiOns. For information write: Box 2099. Middlebury College. Middlebury. Vt. 05753. * * * * The Black Studenh' Alliance Presenh: Donald Byrd and the Rlaekhyrdo;, April II at 9 pm in Memorial Chapel. Advance sa·Je,: $3.50 with !D. $4.50 without l 1 nion ID. At the door: S·+.OO 11ith ID and S5.00 without. For information r.:all 370-ollR. * * * * Santi will rrc,ent informal Jan Worhhnps on. Sund~y afternnlln'. -..tarting April 13 from 2:30-5:30. The ,e,.,wns will he held in the Cabaret on fir-..t tlnor Carnegie. * * * * We are intere-..ted in puttintr to)!ether a hltll> iam at Carneuie Hall on Saturda\' ni,l!ht. \\'e are lnnking for guitar pla~L·r~. ke\ hoard-... horn. plri\J:r\, ha~t·ball pla\er'. or am Pther 1\ pe <lf [1:!1 a phcrnalw pla\Cr\. \1allll~. lrL'l'-l<li\Dl hlue-.. tn lflcilllk '.tlch l<>rrn~ a' Chicago hlue~. Briii,h hlue'. ~.·,,untn hluc'. and red. \\hill·. and hlm·,. \\'~.· drl' 'L'rio .. I .... ar~.· \(It!'.' Plea'c c<H1tact .lPhn IL'\\Ita (27J-f1192l after 6 [1'11. or \1 ike \1<1tllg<lllh'r\ I .~-+A-Q:-:9~) Sc\l<'ll\ 11i1l h<: lrt1m \pm <>n Saturda,,: 1 on nnhi ha\<.' \t>Ur •>\Ill cquirm~.·nt. * * * * * * * * 1 he l' mun Ct>llq!c l'h<ltographil· Stlcict\ 11 ill met:! tP L'Oihidcr and pl;lll t!Ti' tnm'-., acti\ ltie~ ropic' Ill he Lh,cu\ed include darkrotltn and camera in ... tn.ettt·ln. di,trihuti\n nf rarer and film. new darkroom equirmcnt indudintr color 'upplie,, and exhibition'. All memhcr-.. ;~rt? am intere,tcd indi1idual' are urged to attend. \1onda~. Apnl 14.at7pminHt'll5. * * * * i\ meeting of till' International Relations Club \\il1 he held on Thur~da\. April 17 at 4 pm in Strau's l.mm)!e. Thi-.. meetin~ i' v~ry important and al! arc imited to attend. * * * * The Schenectady Museum badl\ need., \·oluntr.:er' a:-. rer.:eptioni,t-.. \\ ho \\ill an'\\ er tclep.lwne'. route calls. and !!i\i.~ ha,ic information to \isitor\>. Receptionisb sit at a d':'k in the rnu,eum lobbY and mal' donate as httk as a mormng <II\ afternoon of thei-r time. /\.. mu~eum spokesm:iri 'aid that men are a' \lek11me \' \\llmcn for the ioh. i\nyL1DL' inten:sted ,}1~,uld telephone Mr'>. Strull. memhero.,hip o;ecretary. * * * * Pwf. ·1 nhie-..~en \\ill hire t\\ll ~ttidJ.:nh thi' summer fnr the t'lllli\aknt <lf 10 \\eek' each (at SKO per \\eekl fpr \\Ofh nn :\ prL>iL\ct in plant ecolo)!\. If interested .... e-: him in S30-l in tlw Science Center for an application. \pplicatic1n\ mmt he returned h\· April IX for 'ekcti<m the ILlll<minf \\Ct:k. * * * * The nn\!1 dected \\'Rl'C c.\ecuti\e h<)ard i': Rich hH,eliu-.. ( p;.c ... ident and General :\1ana)!erl. ll<1yd Sahcr,ki (Station \1anagerl. Ruth Rappaplll't (Pn•trram Din.·ctL,rl. Stc\L' Reinhardt IT~:r.:hlllcal Direc!L1r\. * * * * TilL' Cah;llet nct:d-. \our help~ t\n\ o1w inten:'h~d in \a yin~ the foundatinn tnr a. \tadis(ll1 t\\e. career can hc!!in h~ \\orlo.in)! !Dr Cabaret Publicity. Ca!l Rich Str:w,-..man .at ~~2- IQ27. Th<l-.c \\ith a firmer trra'r on realit~. lookm)! !nr \neational c'.rc:ric:ncc. are needed tLI \\ork in the kitchen hoth hle,da\ and Thur,day ni!-!hh. Call [)on ·\mira at T7- 74Q7. * * * * I he lntcrnatillnal Student< .\,-.,nciatit)n <If l 'niLln c,~llq!L' <.:ordiall\ imite' the l'nion College communi!\ to their Band p; 1 rt\. Pka'e in\ ite all intere-..ted to cnmc alnn~ and L'ni<'Y the fun. Dre\ i.., ,emi-formal. Refrcshm<:nh will he o.,ened. For informati,)n call .Johnny Arccntalc~ at 34A-%9~. The e\cnt , 1 ill be on April 12 at 9 pm in Strau'>s l.oun)!c. The hand will be: Gem' nf the Future. * * * * Arthur Fra-..er·, current address i-. Arthur Fraser. Bruhl~ Hnll',e. Tramorc. Co. Waterford. Eire. * * * * Part-time inh-.. in the Athletic Dept. arc a\ailahle for 3 reoplc. male or female. as assistants tn th: head Athletic Trainer. With increase~ program. more help 1s needed 111 the Trainin)! R(1om. The joh entails protectiw taping. n:1 1 ahilitatinn. and -.nme tra\eling. lt intere-;ted contact .lnhn Alden tn arran)!e an interYiew. * * * * A meeting fnr all 1975 Varsity Soccer candidate-.. \\ill hL' held Thur,(la\ at 2:30 in Hhll'k l' g\m: Flel'li(m nf Captain .... * * * * s 11 mm<:r inh-.. at the Clirlin!! center pLHll Head li1L',!!Uanl, three full-time lifq.!unrtk and l'llt' part-time lifc1!' 1 ''I'd arc nc<:dcd WSI i' lcquired and prt'lnenL\t' \.\ill' hl t!'\t'll Ill l'nilln undcrl.!raduatc... Contact 1\1r. \1a(iill 111 tht· Admin1'tratin1; Huildlll!l hc!nrc ·\pril II. ...

' ' I .. Page8 CONCORDfENSI~, Wednesday, Apri/9, 1975 ' ~ood Day Next Thursday mdustry spends more than $4 billion a year on advertising, a figl!re which exceeds by $500 million the money made available to food stamp recipients last year .. It is estimated that the 3.5 million tons of fertilizer spread on American golf courses and lawns could provide up to 30 million tons of food in agricultural production overseas Why do we allow this to happen? Union students deserve to know the answer to these and other pertinent fr>od rela-ted problems. After all, if you are what you eat, do you want to keep eating the food you eat now? Beside the usual grumbles and groans about the pressures and hardships of Union College academics, the problem of obtaining good, quality Contestants at last year's phonathon, trying to get needed money.for the college and beer.for themselves. sustenance for the hard-working, hard-partying Union students elicits the overwhelming moan of the stomach. Whether you eat at any of the various dining facilities on campus, cook for yourself, or eat out, the question \am I getting the right nutrition?\ always seems to come to mind. But, you shrug it off feeling that your body will work it all out ~y itself in the end; and besides there must be some benefit to stuffing your face with junk. So ·you go, out and stock up the vitamins and other nutrient pills and \pop\ a few each day. There, the matter is finished and you smile, confident that you've done your body justice. But the problem of food . strikes deeper and is worth much more than the smattering of attention most of us Win a Keg of Beer The third annual Union College National Student Phonathon will again this year be run on a competitive basis, with prizes for both teams and individuals being offered. Teams consisting of eight persons may enter with two people from each team manning the phones each night of the four- day period. At the end of the four · nights the team with the highest dollar amf!unt in pledges and the team with the greatest number of donors will each receive a keg of Michelob or Labatt's, compliments of the Development Office. Individual prizes will be given nightly to the persons with the highest dollar total and with the most donors. Refreshments will be provided. Last year 102 students participated in the four nights of calling; Smith House and Fiji each won a keg 519 pledges were received and a total of over $10,100 was raised. This year the number of teams will be limited to 14, so teams should be organized and entered immediately. For information and entry forms contact Mike Garone, (370-4474); Chairman of the Student Phonathon Committee, Keith Mott (372-0172) Assistant Chairman, or Assistant Alumni Director Bill Kuchta in Lamont House (370-6168). begrudgingly allow it. · Term Abroad Expanded ln our automated society, as more an<;! more· people are becoming alienated from their earthly roots, food is taken for ,granted. We have been lulled into a comfortable, matter-of-fact existence where basic needs are supplanted by false desires. Think of all the junk food that we consume each day. Kids are exposer! to television commercials which promote sugar-coated cereals, candy bars, and soda pop. It is estimated that by the age of ten, young Americans will have · consumed 100 pounds of sugar annually. Some 40% of all Americans are overweight. Why is this so? The answer is that our highly technical life style has made us totally una ware and even uninterested in the fo~d we eat..When we eat, are we really conscious of what we are putting into our bodies? Do you know where your food came from or how it was processed? With food prices so high and nutntion content So inadequate, do you know that you are being ripped off or why? Very rarely do we ask ourselves these questions, even when we are dealing with something as important and relevant as food. by BETH HELLMERS Professor Frederick Klemm of the Department of Modern Languages has announced that the Winter Term Program in Seville, Spain will be offered on two levels next year. Previously, students had to take at least one course above the intermediate level in order to be eligible for the program. Now, however, a second program is being offered which will require either Spanish 10 (offered in the fall term) or two years of Spanish in secondary school. The idea of requiring less background in a language followed the success of Union's first Term in ·Italy last fall; since Italian is not offered here on a regular b\trsis only an introductory course in the language was required. The participants found that they were not ham~ered by their relative inexperience with Italian. Students eligible for the lower track (after co~pletion of Spanish I 0 or its equivalent) will take a double course in the language (Spanish II and 12) as well as a third course on Spanish civilization to be taught in English. Students in the advanced level will take Spanish 135, Spanish civilization given in Spanish, and an independent project of each student's own choosing. All participants will live with Spanish families and will have the opportunity to visit Madrid, Jerez, Grenada, and Cordoba. Professor Klemm feels that living in Seville will give students a great opportunity to explore and familiarize themselves with the heart of Spain. If the new offering is a success, all other Term Abroad Programs will be expanded to include levels for both beginning and advanced students .. This will enable a much larger group of students to leave the confines of the campus and gain a wider perspective on another culture. The inclusive fee for the term in Spain (as well as all other terms abroad) will be $1500, plus airfare; student scholarships are applicable. Mrs. Vinick will return as the accompanying faculty member. Professor Klemm can furnish further d On Thursday, April 17, the Food Day Committee at Union College is providing students with the opportunity to learn more about food and food related problems. April 17 is National Food Day and Union is participating by having a workshop on the food crisis, a panel discussion entitled \Food Man, Energy, and the Watson Winners Two Union College seniors have won Thomas J. Watson Fellowships, good for a year of postgraduate travel and study abroad. The fellowships, named for the late founder of International Business Machines Corp., went to Robert A. Cable, a senior Psychology major from Rochester, N.Y., and to Jayne D. Weiner of Teaneck, N.J., a Modern Languages major. Cable proposes to examine child development in Zaire (formerly the Congo). Miss· Weiner hopes to study a Chinese \martial art\ called \t'ai chi ch'uan\ with a master in Taiwan, in preparation for writing about the little known art and its philosophy. Hillel will hold another Sabbath dinner this Friday evening, April II, at 7 pm in Hale House. The program will consist of Shabbat services (with some new innovations), a delicious chicken dinner, and a guest .speaker. This month, our speaker will be Prof. Scaife, Chairman of the Chemistry Department. His topic will be \Science and Theology.\ which promises to provide much stimulating mater.ial for thought and discussion. Environment,\\ a discussion on international food organizations and a discussion 0f what Saga Food Service can do to provide better. more nutritional meals. Here is the big chance for Union students to find out more about those scrumptious, appetizing substances they feed themselves when hunger strikes . \ Food Day and its programs are designed to make people more aware of and concerned about such . pr?blems as food prices,i world-w1de hunger, and poor diets. For instance, the food Israeli Continued fi'Om Page l obtained a degree in Political Science from Sir George Williams University. In August of 1973, ·Mr. Garior was na.med Ambassador to Liberia. After Liberia severed · relations with Israel, .he was appointed to his present position at the Israel's Consulate in New York. The lecture begins at 8:00 p.m.; refreshments will be served following Mr. Ganor's presentation. For more information about Food Day, contact: Nora Goldstein - 346-9590 Florentine Restaurant 108. Jay Street Enfoy our Italian-American Cuisine at Reasonable Prices -~ pecialiy of the House ~ Veal Union College Students ~ _ A /ways Welcome ~~ Love is a giving thing. A perfect Keepsake diamond says it all, reflecting your love in its brilliance and beauty. And you can choose with confidence because the Keepsake guarantee assures perfect claricy, fine white color and precise Rachel modern cut. There is no finer diamond ring. Keepsakf! Box 90, Syracuse, N:Y. 13201 Please send new 20 pg. booklet, \Planning Your Engagement and Wedding\ plus full color folder and 44 pg. Bride's Book gift offer all for only 25¢. Name'--------------------------------------------- AddresS·---------------------- Cicy ______ ~-------------------------------- State ZiP--~--------~-- Find Keepsake Jewelers in the Yellow Pages ot dial free 800-24 3·6000.

Page 8 CONCORDIENS/S, Wednesday, April9, 1975 food Day Next Thursday Beside the usual gn1mbles and groans about the pressures and hardships of Uniom College academics, the problem 0 f obtaining good, quality Contestants at last year's phonathon, tryin~; to f(et needed mone_rfor the col/ef?e and heerfor themselves. sustenaFJce for the hard-working, hard-partying Union students elicits the overwhelming moan of the stomach. Whether you eat at any of the various dining facilities on campus. cook for yourself, or eat out, the question \am I gettillg the right nutritioHT always seems to come to mind. Hut, you shrug it off feeling that your body will work it all out by itself in the end.; and besides there must be some benefit to st11lfing yoar face with junk. So you go out and stock up the vitamins and other nutrient pills and \pop\ a few each day. There. the maHer is finished and you smile, confident that you've done your body justice. But the problem of food strikes deeper and is worth much more than the smattering of attention rnost of us begrudgingly allow it. Win a Keg of Beer The third annual Union College National Student Phonathon will again this year be run on a competitive basis, with prizes for both teams and individuals being offered. Teams consisting of eight persons may enter with two people from each team manning the phones each night of the four- day period. At the end of the four nights the team with the highest dollar amount in pledges and the team with the greatest number of donors will each receive a keg of Michelob or Labatt\s compliments of the Development Office. Individual prizes will be given nightly to the persons with the highest dollar total and with the most donors. Refreshments will be provided. Last year 102 students participated in the four nights of calling; Smith House and Fiji each won a keg 519 pledges were received and a total of over $10.100 was raised. This year the number of teams will be limited to 14, so teams should be organized and entered immediately. For information and entry forms contact Mike Garone, (370-4474); Chairman of the Student Phonathon Committee, Keith M ott (372-0 172) Assistant Chairman. or Assistant Alumni Director Bill Kuchta in Lamont House (370-616X). Term Abroad Expanded In our automated society, as more and more people are becoming alienated from their earthly roots, food is taken for granted. We have been lulled into a comfortable, matter-of-fact existence where basic needs are supplanted by false desires. Think of all the junk food that we consume each day. Kids are exposed to television commercials which promote sugar-<:oated cereals. candy bars. and soda pop. It is estimated that by the age of ten. young Americans will have consumed I 00 pounds of sugar annually. Some 4oc;r, of all Americans are overweight. Why is thts so? I he answer is that our highly technical life stvle has made us totally unaw~rc and _ e\en unmterested tn the food we eat..When we eat. are we realh: conscious of what we are putting into our bodies'! Do vou know where your food came from 0 r how it was processed'' With food prices so high and nutrition content so inadequate, do you know that you are being ripped olf or whv' 1 Verv rarelv do we ask ourselves- these- quesiions, c\en when we are dealing with something as important and relevant as food. by BETH HELLMERS Professor Frederick Klemm ol the Department of Modern Languages has announced that the Winter I erm Program in Seville. Spain will he offered on two levels next year. Previously, students had to take at least one course above the intermediate level in order to be eligible for the program. 'l;ow. however. a second program is being offered which will rc4uire either Spanish 10 (offered in the fall term) or two years of Spanish in secondary school. rhe idea of re4uiring Jess background in a language followed the success of Union's first rcrm in Italy last fall; since Italian is not offered here on a r e g u I a r b~ s i s , o n I y a n introductory course in the language was required. The participants found that they were not hampered by their relative inexperience with Italian. Students eligible for the lower track (after completion of Spanish I 0 or its equivalent) will take a double course in the language (Spanish II and 12) as well as a third course on Spanish civilization to be taught in English. Students in the advanced level will take Spanish 135, Spanish civilization given in Spanish, and an independent project of each student's own choosing. All participants will live with Spanish families and will have the opportunity to visit Madrid, Jerez, Grenada, and Cordoba. Professor Klemm feels that living in Seville will give students a great opportunity to explore and familiarize themselves with the heart of Spain. If the new offering is a success, all other Term Abroad Programs will he expanded to include levels for hoth beginning and advanced students. rhis will enable a much larger group of students to leave the confines of the campus and gain a wider perspective on another culture. I he inclu!>ive fcc for the term in Spain (as well as all other terms ahroad) will he $1500, plus airfare; student scholarships arc applicahlc. \r1 r». Vinick will return faeultv Klemm detaib. a>. the an:ompanymg memher. Professor can furnish further The national phystcs honor society, Sigma Pi Sigma, installed a new chapter at Union College Tuesday. night at a chartering dinner, f<illowed by a public lecture in the Hale House Lounge. Nine students outstanding in Union's Physics program were· initiated as charter . members at the dinner preceding the pulrlic lecture on \Super Nova\ by· astronomer Joseph Erkes of the Dudley Observatory, Albany. The ·offi~er wlro initiated nine students an4 c®ferred the charter to the , Union , S:l>:S Clutpter was Dr. l>iou $h~i .narlona;t dire¢tor of : . .·¥t::Slgn\~ .. · . . . . ... ... · .•. ·... .:·,11~ {l;;t:ot~t:ll),e:mb¢r$hip tif' \~<}f¢':tli~~- ~jOOU¥-~wootq about • .':4~~0: ·· ·.:.·t:ye c~<~P~~·-m~¥'6~~$'. •. *lit~<> :>9llt~~~·. <~t¢'~ · .. ·~tu;}lfn,i . ·:•~t>'•·• 'S.PS:/:c'na:tH~: ' . : ... '··''' .. ;;' ·.'. ·'O''ib: ,·. ·. ·'· ··;:. ~ .. On Thursday. :\pril 17, the Food Day Committee at Union College is providing students v.ith the opportunity to learn more ahout food and food related problems. April 17 is National Food Day and Union ts participating by having a workshop on the food crisis, a panel discussion entitled \Food Man, Energy, and the Watson Winners Two Union College seniOrs have won Thomas J. Watson Fellowships, good for a year C>f postgraduate travel and study abroad. The fellowships, narned for the late founder of International Busines~ Machines Corp., went to Robert A. Cable, a senior Psychology major from Rochester, N.Y., and to Jayne D. Weiner of Teaneck, N.J.. a Modern Languages major. Cable proposes to examine child development in Zaire (formerly the Congo). Miss Weiner hopes to study a Chinese \martial art\ called \t'ai chi ch'uan\ with a master in Taiwan, in preparation for writing about the little known art and its philosophy. Hillel will hold another Sahhath diFJner thi~ Frida} evenm).!. J\pril 11. at 7 rm in Hale H ousc. The program wi II comio.;t of Shahhat ~l'n·ices (with some new innovations), a dcliciou\ chicken dinner. aRd a guest speaker. Thi., month. our -;pcaker will be Prof. Scaife. Chairman of t hL· Chern i\>t rv Department. His topic will he \Science and I hcolog\·.\ v. hich pmmi~e-; to provide much stimulatinf! material for thought and discussion. Emvironment,\ a discussion on international food organizations and a discussion of what Saga Food Service can do to provide hctter. more nutritioFJal meals. Here is the big chance for Union students to find out more about those scrumptious, appetizing substances thev feed themselves when htmger strikes Food Day and its programs arc designed to make people more aware of and concerned about such problems ds food prices~ world-wide hunger, and poor diets. For instance, the food lsraeu Continued from Page I obtained a degree in PoLitical Science from Sir George Wil:Jiams Universitv. In August of 1973, Mr. Garior was named Ambassador to Liberia. After Liberia severed relations with Israel, he was appointed to his present posi,tion at the Israel's Cons1:1late in New York. The lecture begins at 8:00 p.m.; refreshments will be served following Mr. Ganor's presentation. mdustry spends more than $4 billion a year on advertising, a figure which exceeds by $500 miHion the money made available to food stamp recipients last year. It is estimated that the 3.5 million tons of fertiJ.izer spread on American golf courses and lawns could provide up to 30 million tons of food in agricultural production overseas Why do we allow this to happen? Union students deserve to know the answer to these and other pertinent f'pod related problems. After all. if you are wl<lat you eat, do you want to keep eating the food you eat now? For more information about Food Day, contact: Nora Goldstein -··· 346-9590 r: F loren tine Restaurant 108 Jay Street Enjoy our Italian-American Cuisine at Reasonable Prices Specialty of the House - Veal Union Colle~;e Students & _ A !ways Welcome ~~ Love is a giving thing. A perfect Keepsake diamond says it all, reflecting your love in its brilliance and beauty. _ ,;;. ,t.,;'l?k And you can choose with ... ~~.:f-'!' confidence because the ~~ .. •· --~ .·,. ::.·· ,,_. Keepsake guarantee assures perfect clarity, fine white color and precise Rachel modern cut. There is no finer diamond ring. Keepsake® Box 90, Syracuse, N.Y. I3201 Please send new 20 pg. booklet, \Planning Your Engagement and Wedding\ plus full color folder and 44 pg. Bride's Book gift offer all for only 25¢. Name'---------------------------------------------- Address---------------------------------- Cicy ____________________________________________ ___ State Zip _________ _ Find Keepsake Jewelers in the Yellow Pages or dial free 800-243-6000. ).

' a le er ut CONCORDJENSIS, Wednesday, Apri/9, 1975 Page9 Lichterman Continued .from Page l however, that he would continue in the post until a successor had been selected. A native of New York City, Dr. Lichterman was graduated from Harvard College in 1939. He received an M.A. in American history from Harvard in 1947 and a doctorate from Columbia in :1952. A specialist in the history of the Civil War and in military history, he taught at MJ.T., Princeton, and Rutgers. He came to Union in 1966 as Dean af Humanities and Social Sciences. ln 1972 he was named to the newly-created post of Dean of the Faculty, with overall &dministrative responsibility for the undergraduate program of the College. Herb Wylen: victim of an abolished position. lhe Liaison and Governance Committee l:tas appointed an AD ·HOC . committee to investigate {a) · the causes and reasons for 1he English Department's decision with respect to Professor : . E!izabeth Mansfield's c~n­ tract, and the proce!lures through which this decision was reached, and (b) the reasons why the Administration did 11ot implement that decision and why Dean Lichterman became the Acting Chairman of the Department. The AD HOC committ~e consists of Professors Howard Berthold (Psychology), Ru:tll An·ne Evans (Library), · Manfred Jonas (History), Charles ·Scaife ( Ch~istry ) 1 and Peter Tobiessen (Biological Sciences). Persons having substalltive . biformation about the matters under investigation are ,requested to contad any member of the committee. WORLD CAMPUS AFLOAT Sail either in September or February, with the ship as your classroom and the world your campus .. , com· bine accredited study, with fascinating. visits to tlte fa- bled ports of the Caribbean, Africa,. the Mediterranean, and the Americas. Over 10,· 000 undergraduates from 450 colleges have already sailed with WCA - join them! Financial aid a\/ail· able. Write today for free catalog. WCA, Chapman College Box F, CA 92666 New Plans ( ·ontinued from· Page I Faculty; Assistant to the President; Assistant to . the . Treasut.er and Comptroller; Director of P~rsonnel and Development Officer, in charge of relations with foundations, corporations, and government. Absorbed into the new positions were duties of a number of other offices which will be eliminated from the table of organization. Dr. Bonner said a search would begin soon for the staff members needed to fill the new positions and to replace administrators who have resigned.. including- Dean of Faculty Martin Lichterman, wno resigned to become professor of history and higher education and William L. Weifenbach, Dean of Graduate and Continuing Education, who asked to be relieved for reasons of health; and Dean Herb Wylen whose position as assistant dean of the Coilege has been aholished. Texas Instruments The World's Most Wanted Scientific Calculator OUR, PRICE sgsao Plus $6.50 for local sales tax, shipping/handling. charges. Compare with local store prices. 5 day Air Mail/ United Parcel Service delivery Performs all the functions of higher priced calculators and more for a lot less • Thousands sold in hundreds of colleges. • algebraic keyboard • accuracy to 13 significant digits • 12 digit display· 1 fJ digit mantissa, 2 digit exponent • powers • roots • factorials • logarithmic, trigonometric, hyperbolic functions • memory storage and recall • scientific notation • rechargeable battery pack 1 YEAR TEXAS INSTRUMENTS WARRANTY. Send !!ertified check or money order'for delivery with in five dqys. No CO D's please. Slight delay in delivery if personal check accompanies order. Our bank reference: Town Bank and Trust Co. -~~--~~-~~----------~-~--- BOSTON TECHNICAL, INC. 728 Dedham St., Newton, Mass. 02159 Please ship immediately via Airmail/UPS~. __ SR-50(s) Name--------~~------------------------ Address ------------------------------- Status of Women The President's Commission on governmental agency. It is the Status of Women was formed problem-oriented, an investigative to assist the College in all areas of bureau, helping and supporting institutional life that affect the those organizations and women members of the individuals who are in the midst community. Therefor; it is not a of concerns that need alternatives. replacement for any other . There will be an open meeting women's organizations, such as of the President's Commission on the Women's Caucus, Staff the Status of Women on Tuesday, Association, or the Women's April 22 from noon to 1:30 at Association. The commissioners Strauss Lounge. All are invited to were selected by election frodt :bring their lunch and dessert, tea, each representative group - and coffee will be served. The administration, faculty, nursing, meeting is being held so that maintenance, Women's .anyone may express theirideasor Association, clergy, and students. concerns that they feel the Since being chartered February Commission may wish to 14. 1975, the Commission has met investigate, as well as to see how weekly. Organization and the Commission operates. For d.iscussioH of each group's those unable to attend or if concerns have been the primary further needs are indicated, please emphasis of these beginning address letters to The President's meetings; the meetings arc closed Commission on the Status of for reasons of confidentiality. The Women. Box /516. Commission differs from other organ,izations in that it is a ..-----News Shorts Orientation Plans The Orientation Committee has begun preparations for next fall's incoming class. On Sunday, April 13, the committee will hold an open meeting in Fox Lounge from 4 p.m. to 6 p.m. All students are invited to come and air their views for planning of events, goals, and objectives of Orientation. If unable to attend, all suggestions should be addressed to Harriet Kaplan and Bill Talis in the Student Activities Office. Selection of members of the Orientation Committee for Orientation\76\ has been· completed. Those sdected to serve on the committee are: Pat Curran, . Asst. Chairman; Marshall Wisoff, ·Mat Brief, Ronnie Zankel, Lisa Tietz, Mike Affinito, Kelley Newton, and David Woog. Applications are now available for Orientation Advisor. Advisors_ are group leaders for the incoming freshmen and also assist in the execution of Orientation programs. 'Applications are available at the Student Activities Office. Interviews by the :Uin IIIII 11111111111111111111111111111111111111111111!: ~ ALGUR ; ~ LIQUOR ~ § CEN:TER = - - - - i 751 Eastern Ave. ;: = = - - 5 346-5151 5 - - = '= ::: LOWEST PRICES = - - - - · 5 ALtOWEIJ ;;; - - 5 1;-.i i\.Y. STATE :: - - - - - - = = illllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllliFw Committee will beheld during the following week. Carnegie Party The Great Carnegie Party will be held on Thursday, April 10. The fun begins at 4:30 pm with a free cocktail party, open to tlte entire campus. The schedule for the evening is proposed to b~: , 7:30- Horsefeathers (Marx Bros. movie), Strauss Lounge. 8:30- \The Carnegie Casino'' (Roulette, Blackjack, etc.), 2nd floor. 9:00- \Cabaret\ {no cover charge), I st floor. 9:30- Rock Band (dancing), 3rd floor. I I :00- \Cabaret\ (second show). Midn.- Drawing for $50 cash pri~e. FREE BEER ALL NIGHT. Admission is 50a: at the door. THE FILM - COMMITTEE presents SINGING IN THE RAIN with Gene Kelly Tuesday, April15 at 8 and l () p.m. 25<r: SS016 LUIGI'S RESTAURANT SPECIAIJZING IN Italian - American Food ·1125 BARRffi ST.~ saeECTADY 016-9744 ,., Vilrt Our Cockt~il Btlr . . ·F.,njoy. Sizzling S~taks ant! Chop.s

0 e n n n t, ), CONCORDIENSJS, Wednesday, Apri/9, 1975 Page 9 '¢~ Lichterman Continued from Page 1 however. that he would continue in the post until a successor had beem selected. A native of New York City, Dr. Lichterman was graduated from Harvard College in 1939. He received an M.A. in American history from Harvard in 1947 and a doctorate from Columbia in 1952. A specialist in the history of the Civil War and in military history, he taught at M.I.T .. Princeton, and Rutgers. He came to Union in l%o as Dean of Humanities and Social Sciences. In 1972 he was named to the newly-created post ot l>ean of the 1-aculty, with overall administrati\e responsrhilrty lor the undergraduate program ol the College. HPrh lYden: \'ictim o(an aholished {Jo.\ifion. The Department of English invites the submission of entries in the foll.owing writing competitions. The deadline for submission· is WEDNESDAY, The Liaison and Governance Committee has appointed an AD HOC committee to investigate (a) the causes and reasons for the English Department's decision with respect to Professor Elizabeth Mansfield's con- tract, and the procedures through which this decision was reached, and (b) the reasons why the Administration did not implement that decision and why Dean Lichterman became the Acting Chairman of the Department. The AD HOC committee consists of Professors Howard Berthold (Psychology), Ruth Anne Evans (Library), Manfred Jonas (History), Charles Scaife (Chemistry), and Peter Tobiessen (Biological Sciences). Persons having substantive information about the matters under investigation are requested to contact any member of the committee. WORLD CAMPUS AFLOAT Sail either in September or February, with the ship as your classroom and the world your campus ... com- bine accredited study with fascinating visits to the fa· bled ports of the Caribbean, Africa, the Mediterranean, and the Americas. Over 10,- 000 undergraduates from 450 colleges have already sailed with WCA - join them! Financial aid avail- able. Write today for free catalog. WCA, Chapman College Box F, Orange, CA 92666 New Plans ( untinued from Page I htcUlt}: Assistant to the President: Assistant to the I reasurer and Comptroller: Director of Personnel and Development Officer, in charge of relations with foundations, corporations, and government. Absorbed into the new positions were duties of a number of other offices which will be eliminated from the table of organization. Dr. Bonner said a search would begin soon for the staff members needed to fill the new positions and to replace administrators who have resigned including Dean of !·acuity Martin Lichterman. wlio resigned to hecume prolessor ol history and higher education and William l.. Weifcnhach. Dean ot (iraduate and Continuing Education. who asked to be relieved for reasons ol health: and Dean Herh \Vylen \\ ho~e position as assistant dean ol the College has been abolished. APRIL 30. Titl£ . AL~t.JJiN PRlZE~w~utl!(f:gitUi\l<·.seni()rs Texas Instruments The World's Most Wanted Scientific Calculator OUR PRICE sgsao Plus $6.50 for local sales tax, shipping/handling charges. Compare with local store prices. 5 day Air Mail/ United Parcel Service delivery Performs all the functions of higher priced calculators and more for a lot less Thousands sold in hundreds of colleges. • algebraic keyboard • accuracy to 13 significant digits • 12digttdlsplay-10digit mantissa, 2 digit exponent • powers • roots • factortals • logarithmic, trigonometric, hyperbolic functions • memory storage and recall \ scientiftc notation • rechargeable battery pack 1 YEAR TEXAS INSTRUMENTS WARRANTY. Send certd<ed check or money order tor delrvery wrthin l<ve days No COD's please. Sl<ght delay <n delNery 11 personal check accompan1es order. Our bank reference· Town Bank and Trust Co. --------~----------.-~---------- BOSTON TECHNICAL, INC. 728 Dedham St., Newton, lVIass. 02159 Please ship immediately via Airmail/UPS _____ ._SR-50(s) Name_ Address __ _ Status of Women The President's Commission on the Status of Women was formed to assist the College in all areas of institutional life that affect the women members of the community. Therefor~ it is not a replacement for any other women's organit.ations, such as the Women's Caucus, Staff Association, or the Women's Association. The commissioners were selected by election from each representative group administration, faculty, nur::.ing, maintenance. Women·~ Association. clergy. and student~. Since heing chartered 1-chruary 14. 1975. the Cornmr~!'>iu n ha' met \\ceh.ly. Organt/atron and discu-.,iun ol each gmup·~ concern.., haw heen the pnrnary ernpha~ts ol the~c ht:grnrung lllCL'ting .... the llll\t.'tlllg' arc clll~cd lor rca,ons ol conlidcntlalit~. I ht: Curnmt-.~ion dit ler ~ I rom ot ht:r tlrgani1a!Hlll' 111 that it I' a Orientation Plans I he Orientation Committee has hegun preparatiOns tor next fall's incoming class. On Sunday, April 13. the committee will hold an open meeting in Fox Lounge from 4 p.m. to 6 p.m. All students are invited to come and air their views for planning of events, goals. and objectives of Orientation. If unable to attend, all suggestions should be addressed to Harriet Kaplan and Bill Talis in the Student Activities Office. Selection of members of the Orientation Committee for Orientation\76\ has been completed. Those selected to serve on the committee arc: Pat Curran. Asst. Chairman; Marshall Wisoff. Mat BrieL Ronnie Zankcl. Lisa liell. Mike Affinito. Kelley ~ewton. and David Woog. Applications are now available tor Orientation Advisor. Advisors are group leaders for the incoming freshmen and also assist in the execution of Orientation programs. ·Applications are available at the Student Activitie~ 011 icc. lnten iews h:- thL· :!.1 lflllllllllllllllll II llllllllllllllllllllll II 1111111 !:!: ALGl'R ~ § LIQUOR ~ § CENTER ~ - - - - - - - - - - = 751 Eastern Avt~. = - - - - = = = 346-5151 = - - - - - - 5 I.OWI:-S I PRICFS :S - - - - 5 i\LL()\\'E[J 5 - - - - ::: 1:\l'\.Y.SIAII:-. :: - - - - - - - - - - innmllllllllllllllllllllllllllllltlll!llllllllli 1 ffi governmental agency. It is problem-oriented, an investigative bureau, helping and supporting those organizations and individuals who are in the midst of concerns that need alternatives. There will be an open meeting of the President's Commis;ioR on the Status of Women on Tuesda:;.. April 22 from noon to l :JO at Strauss Lounge. All are invited to bring their lunch and dessert. te;,, and coffee will be served. lhc meeting rs being held so that an} one may express therr rdeas or concerns that they !eel the Commrssron rna\ \\t,h to in\t'strgate, as \\ell as ttl sec ho\\ the ComrnissH lll urera {C\. hlf tlw..,e unahk It' attend or rl lurther nc·eds are imltcated. plea'e addre-., ktter' to l he l're,tdcn(, ( <~lllllll''ron ''11 tht: '>tatth ul \\ tllllen. Bo' .'51(,. News Shorts Committee will hl' hdd durmg the lnllowmg \\ed. Carnegie Party The Great Carnegie Party will be held on Thursday, April 10. The fun begins at 4:30 pm with a free cocktail party, open to the entire campus. The schedule for the evening is proposed to be: . 7:30- Horsefeathers (Marx Bros. movie). Strauss Lounge. R:30 \The Carnegie Casino\ (Roulette, Blackjack, etc.), 2nd floor. 9:00- \Cabaret\ (no cover charge), I st floor. 9:30 Rock Band {dancing). 3rd Ooor. II :00 \Cabaret\ (second :;how). Midn. Drawing tor $50 cash pri1,e. FREE BH~R 1\l.l. :\ltiH I. Admission rs SOc at the door. THE FILM COMMITTEE presents SINGING IN THE RAIN with Gene J-:ellr Tuesday~ April 15 at 8 and 10 p.m. 25<C SSOI6 LUIGI'S RESTAURANT SPECIALIZING IN Italian - American FooJ ·1125 BARRETT ST. SOENECTADY 016-97.44 • Enjoy Sizzling Stealcs anti Chop.-r Vi/It Our Cockt~il Bllr 'Serving Union For Three

Page 10 CONCORDIENS/S, Wednesday, April9, 1975 Track and Field: Opinion by GREGORY MEYER Steve Prefontaine, America's premier distance runner, was recently quoted as saying, \To hell with patriotism,\ in conjunction with the statement that any efforts he makes in the 1976 Olympic Games will not be for this country, but for himself. The statement was a bit upsetting to me as an American, but was, sadly, understandable to me as a runner. Prefontaine was referring to the lack of support, particularly financial, that he receives as a runner and an amateur athlete; his particular case in point is the International Olympic Games. The problem here IS, however, a lot more complicated than a simple problem of money. The 1 lack of financial support is only a symptom of the real problem. Track and field athletes in this country don't have the spectator support that many of their colleagues in other athletic endeavors enjoy. The question is why don't most .people enjoy watching track and field competition? The major reasons are that many people have never seen a track meet, and many of those who have did not understand what track is all about, dismissing it as a sport for a few fanatics. The outdoor season is a great opportunity to learn the basics of the sport. All home meets (and most .of the others) are dual meets (i.e. Union vs only one other school), so that there are Union competitors in every race and event. All track events are run successively, and field events take place on the infield while running events are in progress on the track; thus there is always something to watch, never a time out. If the plight of the amateur track athlete in this country is considered, one can uncerstand' Prefontaine's sentiments. He cannot compete for money, and he cannot coach. Yet he must train himself, compete, and transport himself to the Olympic Trials and Games, with the financial burden falling almost entirely on himself. So here is my plug (at long last for those of you who guessed that it was coming): the Union College track and field team has a schedule of nine meets this season, three of which are to be run at home (as well as one at RPl). As always, the students and the campus community in general are more than welcome to come down and watch the meets, and find out what track is about. The support would be greatly appreciated. The season opens Saturday, April 12, with a ·dual meet at Wesleyan University. The team will be back at Union the following Wednesday to face the University of Rochester in the first of three home meets (the oth~rs are Albany State on AprH 23 and Trinity College on May 3). If you do c0me to watch, corner someone knowledgable, grab him or her by the arm, and find out what's going on. Any member of the team would be more than willing to help in this regard. Many of us feel embarrased . to admit that we don't know what's going on at an event so \simple\ as a track meet. Like any sport, track has the usual sources of amazement and intrigue: watch the athlete's form, his strength, try to imagine what he is feeling and thinking; these are things any good sports fan is sensi..tive to. But also also how fhe meet is scored, what would be a good time (height, distance, etc.) for tnat event. . Trt-captain Bill Carmody received Division Ill There is no good reason why the United States should be beaten in track and field. We have ·the advantages of ~large population and fairly extensive school track programs. Yet our overall track and field performance in the 1972 Olympic Games fell far short of what it could have bee.n. I'm sure Prefontaine is asking, \Why don't people put theU; money where their mouth isT' I Come over and watch a meet, and ask questions. Don't be shy. As every veteran track and field fan knows, man has simply never invented a sport with a greater potential for excitement than the age-old sport of track and field. Garnet BasketbaU Stats UNION COLLEGE (Schenectady, N.Y.) Final Basketb!lll Statistics 1974-75 Record: Union Won 20, Lost 4; Won ECAC Div. III Upstate N.Y. Title Results: Union 78, Middlebury 63 Williams 81, Union 77 Union 72, Hamilton 63 Union 68, Hartwick 66 (OT) Union 84, Wesleyan 53 C. W. Post 66, Union 60 Union 84, Drew 50 Union 80, Hamilton 71 Union 75, Utica 66 Union 64, WPI 53 Union 83, Rochester 72 Union 92, Binghamton 71 Union 75, RPI 59 Union 85, Hobart 66 Kings Point 65, Union 64 Siena 71. V nion 70 Union 97, Pace 55 Union 77, RPI71 (OT) Union 104. Clark 73 Union 91, Tufts 67 #Union 92, Hamjlton 75 Union 83, Amherst 59 Union 83, Trinity 68 #Union 67, Oneonta St. 59 #EC'AC Div. m. Upstate Tournament, at Schenectady. PLAYER G FGA FG % FTA FT % Reb. (Avg) Asst. Pts Avg. *Gugliotta. Charles 24 246 132 53.7 105 72 68.6 217 (9.0) 56 336 14.0 Sr .. Huntington. NY *Carmody. Bill 24 263 127 48.3 62 Sr .. Spring Lake, NJ 51 82.3 54 (2.3) 146 305 12.7 Kellv, Steve Jr.: Pt. Washington, NY 24 253 125 49.4 47 31 66.0 169 (7.0) 37 281 11.7 Oenio. John 23 209 108 51.7 34 Jr.. Melrose. NY 23 67.6 42 (1.8) 47 239 10.4 Fisher. Joel 21 128 73 57.0 36 Jr .. Syosset. NY 25 69.4 129 (6. I) 30 171 8.1 Meola. Pete 24 159 83 52.2 22 So .. Sch'dy, NY 9 40.9 114 (4.8) 11 175 7.3 49 30 61.2 81 (3.5) 12 140. 6.1 Walker, Alan 23 126 55 43.7 So .. E. Longmeadow, Mass. 46 24 52.2 32 24 75.0 40 (2.0) 10 o/2 3,6 McLaughlin, Cletus 20 So .. Little Falls, NY Borgese. Gary 20 60 32 53.3 10 6 60.0 10 (05) 25 70 3.5 So .. New Hyde Park, NY Gorman, Rick 17 38 19 50.0 17 8 47. I 10 (0.6) 11 46 2.7 So .. Phila .. Pa. Viniar. Dave ll 13 6 46.2 15 9 60.0 12 (l.l) 2 21 1.9 Jr .. Bronx. NY *Crawford. Kevin 15 11 9 81.8 13 5 38.5 6 (0.4) 9 23 1.5 Sr .. Cranston. R I Hughes. Larry 12 20 6 30.0 9 2 22.2 25 (2. J) . 7 14 1.2 So .. Tonawanda. NY Kearney. Larry 13 10 4 40.0 R 4 50.0 9 (0.7) 7 12 0.9 So., Inwood. NY IJnion College 24 15R2 803 50.8 459 299 65.1 980 (40.8) 410 1905 79.4 - orponcnts 24 1454 622 42.8 482 319 66.2 954 (39.8) 244 1563 65.1 *Tri-Captains for 1974-75 . . . Compiled hy Frank Bacher '76. Official Union College Sports StatJstictan alocadesforhisfinal season efforts. Knicks vs. Celts?! Continued from Page II The emergence of new powers hke the Washington Bullets, Buffalo Braves, Golden State Warriors, and Chicago Bulls, will make the N BA playoffs extremely competitive. The Bullets are led by center Wes Unseld (who edged, out Dave Cowens as the N BA rebounding leader with 14. 75), Elvin Hayes, the team's leading scorer, and all-star guard Phil Chenier. Baltimore's first-round opponents, the Braves, are almost as formidable. Though the Bullets 60-22 record tied Boston for the top in the league, Buffalo was right behind them, finishing third in the NBA during the regular season. Their center is league MVP Bob McAdoo, who was the NBA scoring leader with 34 ppg., and also ranked high in rebounds and blocked shots. Forward Jim McMillian, guard Randy Smith (20 ppg.), and super-sub Jack Marin also help make Buffalo a contender. The Western Conference .leaders, Golden State and Chicago, are also po~ential titlists. The Warriors are captained by phenomenal forward Rick Barry, who poured in over 30 ppg. to go with his many steals.and assists. Their other forward, Rookie of the Year carrdidate Keith Wilkes (6-6). could also be a big plus in the team's drive for their championship. A possible obstacle is the Chicago Bulls, who feel they have finally put it all together after years as also-rans. Coming off strong seasons are explosive guard Norm Van Lier, high scoring Bob Love (6-8), and forward Chet Walker, still going strong at 34. The addition of 6-ll Nate Thurmond, one of the strongest centers ever, may make this the year Bulls coach Dick Motta finally wins a title. Any of these five teams could go all the way,. which should make for an interest-ing playoff season. The feeling here is that the Eastern Conference teams are better balanced, and thus assume the favorites• roles. Washington and Boston should fight it out for the championship, with Boston gaining the edge if the Bullets have trouble with Bob McAdoo and his Braves in ·the first round. The ABA piayoffs will also !>e competitive, with the Kentucky Colonels and Denver Nuggets providing the strongest challenge to the Nets. The Colonels and Nets are likely to meet . in the Eastern finals, with Kentucky looking to revenge last year's embarrassing 4-0 loss to the Nets. To accomplish this, they have acquired forward Wilbert Jones and guard Ted McClain to go with holdovers Louis Dampier, 6- 9 Dan I sse!, and 7-2 Artis Gilmore. McClain has provided much-needed defense, while the two big men dominate the boards as well as ~yer. . The Nets, however, still feature Julius Erving, the co-M VP of the ABA along with Indiana's George McGinnis, \Dt. J\ ,also finished second in scoring to McGinnis. Other Nets standouts are 6-9 Larry Kenon and guard Brian Taylor, who topped the circuit in steals. The key, however, is 6-11, 240 pound center Billy Paultz, who more than held his own in last year's playoffs against the giant Gilmore. If Patlltz can duplicate that performance, Dr. J and company should onc:e more turn back Kentucky. Unless McGinnis can work miracles for the young Pacers, the chief title contender from the Western Conference will be the Denver team. All-star guards Ralph Simpson and Mack Calvin are the leaders, while 6-8 rookie Bobby Jones from North Carolina helps center Mike Green up front. The Nuggets amazed critics by handily winning their: division after being picked for last place. iheir heroics, however, may not hold up against the playoff-wis~· Eastern teams. So, it will be Boston ... or Washington, and New York...or Kentucky. Anyway, it should be exciting. ( ' s e l . l

Page 10 CONCORDIENSJS, Wednesday, Apri/9, 1975 sports Track and Field: Opinion by GREGORY MEYER Steve Prcfontainc, America's prem1er distance runner, was recentlv quoted as saying, \To hell with patriotism,\ in conjunctioN with the statement that anv efforts he makes in the 1976 oiympic Games will not be for this countrv. hut for himself. lhe statement :..Vas a hit upsetting to me as an American, hut was, sadlv. understandable to me as a run~er. Prefontainc was referring to the lack of support, particularly financial, that he receives as a runner and an amateur athlete; his particular case in point is the International Olympic Games. If the plight of the amateur track athlete in this country is considered, one can uncerstand~ Prefontaine's sentiments. He cannot compete for money, and he cannot coach. Yet he must train himself, compete, and transport himself to the Olympic Trials and Games, with the financial burden falling almost entirely on himself. There is no good reason why the United States should be beaten in track and field. We have the advantages of large population and fairly extensive school track programs. Yet our overall track and field performance in the 1972 Olympic Games fell far short of what it could have been. I'm sure Prefontaine is asking, \Why don't people put the~ money where their mouth is?'\ The problem here IS, however, a lot more complicated thaH a simple problem of money. The lack of financial support is only a symptom of the real problem. rrack and field athletes in this country don't have the spectator support that many of their colleague~ in other athletic endeavors enjoy. The 4ucstion i:, why don't most people enjoy watching track and field competition'! lhe major reasons are that many people have never seen a track meet. and many of those who have did not understand what track is all about, dismissing it as a sport tor a few fanatics. So here is my plug (at long last for those of you who guessed that it was coming): the Union College track and field team has a schedule of nine meets this season. three of which are to be run at home (as well as one at RPI). As always, the students and the campus community in general are more than welcome to come down and watch the meets, and find out what track is about. The support would be greatly appreciated. The season opens Saturday, April 12, with a dual meet at Wesleyan University. The team will be back at Union the following Wednesday to face the University of Rochester in the first of three home meets (the others are Albany State on April 23 and Trinity College on May 3). Ihe outdoor season is a great opportunity to learn the basics of tl1e sport. All home meets (and most of the others) are dual meets (i.e. Union vs only one other school), so that there are Union competitors in every race and event. All track events are run ~uccessivelv. and field events take place on the infield while running events are in progress oH the track; thus there is always something to watch. never a time out. If vou do come to watch, corne~ someone knowledgable, grab him or her by the arm, and find out what's going on. Any member of the team would be more than willing to help in this regard. Many of us feel embarrased to admit that we don't know what's going on at an event so \simple\ as a track meet. Like any sport, track has the usual sources of amazement and intrigue: watch the athlete's form, his strength. try to imagine what he is feeling and thinking; these are things any good sports fan is sensitive to. But also also how the meet is scored, what would be a good time (height, distance, etc.) for that event. Come over and watch a meet, and ask questions. Don't be shy. As every veteran track and field fan knows, man has simply never invented a sport with a greater potential for excitement than the age-old sport of track and field. Garnet Basketball Stats UNION COLLEGE (Schenectady, N.Y.) Final Basketball Statistics 1974-75 Record: Union Won 20, Lost 4; Won ECAC Div. III Upstate N.Y. Title Results: !Inion 7l( Middlebury 113 1 1 nion oX, Hartwick 116 (OT) (Inion R4. Drew 50 l\nion M. WPl 53 I 'nion 75. R PI 59 SiL'na 71. t:nion 70 l'nion 104. Clark 7:. l'nion R.1. 1\mher-.t 59 Williams 8L Union 77 Union l\4, Wesleyan 53 Union 80. Hamilton 71 Union 8J. Rochester 72 l lnion 85. Hobart (i6 I 1 nion 97. Pace 55 1 1 nion 9!, Tufts 67 I 'nion X3, Trinity (i8 ttFC:\\ Di'. Ill.! 'r-.tate Tournament, at Schenectady. PLAYER *(itlj.!liotta. Charle' Sr .. Huntin~ton, '\Y *Carmod:,·. Rill Sr .. Sprin)! Lake. ;\;.! Kellv. Steve .Jr..\ Pt. Wa-.hin,!!ton, NY Denio . .John .Jr .. \1elrme. ;o..;y f-i,hcr . . I ocl .Jr. S\'ov· .. ct. \\Y Meola. Pctt• So .. Sch'd\. \\Y Walhr. Alan So .. F. lon~meadow. Ma~'· \lid au)!hlin. Cletu.., So .. Little Fall'. ~y Borw:,c. Garv So .. \\c\\ Hyde Park. \\Y (iorman. Rick So. Phila .. Pa. \'1niar. DaH lr. Bronx. '\;Y ·'Cr;r\\ford. Kc\in Sr. Cran-.ton. R I llll).!hL''· I ;nr·\ Sn. 1 ona\.\.anda. '\Y KL·<rrnn. I <rH\ So. ln\\tlod. \\Y G 24 24 24 23 21 24 23 20 20 17 1 1 15 12 FGA FG % 2411 l 32 53.7 2o3 127 48J 253 125 49.4 209 I OR 51.7 12X n 57.o 159 R3 52.2 I 26 55 43.7 411 24 52 2 nO 32 s:u 19 50.0 I~ (1 46.2 II 9 X I.X 20 6 .lO.O 10 4 40.0 FTA 105 62 47 34 36 22 49 10 17 15 X FT % 72 6R.6 51 82.3 31 66.0 2J 67.6 25 69.4 9 40.9 30 61.2 24 75.0 6 60.0 R 47.1 9 110.0 5 ~K.5 2 22.2 4 50.0 24 1 5X2 xo.1 so.x 459 299 65.1 orr•Hlcnh 24 1454 h22 42.X 4X2 .1!9 116.2 Union 72, Hamilton 63 C.W. Post 66, Union 60 Union 75, Utica 66 Union 92, Binghamton 71 Kings Point 65, Union 64 Union 77, R PI 71 (0T) #Union 92, Hamilton 75 #Union 67, Oneonta St. 59 Reb. (Avg) Asst. 217 (9.0) 56 Pts Av~. 3J(i 14.0 54 (2.3) 169 (7.0) 42 ( 1.8) 129 (6.1) 114 (4.H) 81 (3.5) 40 (2.0) 10 (0.5) 10 (0.6) 12 (1.1) 0 (0.4) 25 ( 2. l ) 9 (0. 7) 9KO ( 40.K) 954 ( 39 K) 146 37 47 30 1 1 12 10 25 I I 2 9 7 7 305 12.7 281 11.7 239 I 0.4 171 175 140 n 70 46 21 23 14 I 2 8.1 7.3 6.1 3.o 3.5 2.7 1.9 1.5 1.2 09 410 1905 79.4 244 1563 115. 1 *I ri-Cartain' for 1974-75 ... Cnrnrlled h' h;~nk Bacher '76. Official! 'nion College Sport' StatJsticwn Tri-captain Bill Carmody received Division lJJ alocadesfor his .final season efforts. Knicks vs. Celts?! Continued from Page 11 The emergence of new powers like the Washington Bullets, Buffalo Braves. Golden State Warriors, and Chicago Bulls, will make the N BA playoffs extremely competitive. The Bullets are led bv center Wes Unseld (who edged o~t Dave Cowens as the N BA' rebounding leader with 14. 75), Elvin Hayes, the team's leading scorer. and all-star guard Phil Chenier. Baltimore's first-round opponents. the Braves, are almost as formidable. Though the Bullets 60-22 record tied Boston for the top in the league, Buffalo was right behind them, finishing third in the NBA during the regular season. Their center is league MVP Hob McAdoo, who was the NBA scoring leader with 34 ppg., and also ranked high in rebounds and blocked shots. Forward Jim McMillian, guard Randy Smith ( 20 ppg. ). and super-sub Jack Marin also help make Buffalo a contender. !he Western Conference leaders. Golden State and Chicago. are also potential titlists. The Warriors are captained by phenomenal forward Rick Barry, who poured in over 30 ppg. to go with his many steals and assists. Their other forward. Rookie of the Year candidate Keith Wilkes (6-6). could alsn be a big plus in the team's drive for their champi<mship . A possible obstacle is the Chicago Bulls, who feel they have finally put it all together after years as also-rans. Coming off strong seasons are explosive guard Norm Van Lier, high scoring Bob Love (6-8), and forward Chet Walker, still going strong at 34. The addition of 6-11 :'llate Thurmond, one of the strongest centers ever, may make this the year Bulls coach Dick Motta finally wins a title. Any of these five teams could go all the way, which should make for an interesting playoff season. The feeling here is that the Eastern Conference teams are better balanced, and thus assume the favorites' roles. Washington and Boston should fight it out for the championship, with Boston gaining the edge if the Bullets have trouble with Bob McAdoo and his Hraves in the first round. The ABA playoffs will also be competitive, with the Kentucky Colonels and Denver Nuggets providing the strongest challenge to the Nets. The Colonels and Nets are likely to meet in the Eastern finals, with Kentucky looking to revenge last year's embarrassing 4-0 loss to the Nets. To accomplish this, they have acquired forward Wilbert Jones and guard Ted McClain to go with holdovers Louis Dampier, 6- 9 Dan Issei, and 7-2 Artis Gilmore. McClain has providec' much-needed defense, while the two big men dominate the boards as well as ever. I he Nets. however, still feature Julius Erving, the co-M VP of the ABA along with Indiana's George McGinnis. \Dr. r also finished second in scoring to McGinnis. Other Nets standouts are 6-9 Larry Kenon and guard Brian Taylor. who topped the circuit in steals. The key, however, is 6-ll, 240 pound center Billy Paultz, who more than held his own in last year's playoffs against the giant Gilmore. If. Paultz can duplicate that performance, Dr. J and company should once more turn back Kentucky. Unless McGinnis can work miracles for the young Pacers, the chief title contender from the Western Conference will be the Denver team. All-star guards Ralph Simpson and Mack Calvin are the leaders, while 6-l\ rookie Rob.by Jones from North Carolina helps center Mike Green up front. The Nuggets amazed critics by handily winning their: division after being picked for last place. I heir heroics. however, may not hold up against the playofl-wisl' Eastern teams. So. it will be Boston ... or Washington. and New York ... or Kentucky. Anyway, it should be exciting. I : I ; I < I , I I ~

for !>e ets nd go 6- re -9 in 1' J Ie CONCQRDIENSIS, Wednesday, April9, 1975 Page 11 ·/ sports Sports · Sh~rts INTRAMURAL SOFTBALL - Intramural softball began this week with 50 mens teams, II womens teams and 2 faculty teams. Captains have the schedules in their mailboxes. Softball has 941 students involved this spring. INTRAMURAL SOCCER - A night soccer league is being organized for the spring. Games will be played Tuesday and Thursday nights under the lights. 7 man teams, starts April 29th .. Tum rosters intci Coach Knull. INTRAMURAL B-BALL - The Chi Psi lntraniural Basketball Team will represent Union on April 15 at 7:30 at Siena College. Their first, opponent in the Tournament will be the winner of the S.C.C.C. vs. H.V.C.C. game. INDOOR TRACK MEET -. On April II th there will be an indoor intramural track meet. Events: Long Jump, High Jump. Shot Put, 50 vd. dash, 55 yd. low hurdles. 4 lap relay (4 different people), mile ~elay (4 people), 880 yd. run.,See Coach Michelson for details. PING PONG TOURNEY - Spring Intramural Ping Pong tourney, April 15th (1st round) Entry deadline April 11th with Coach Knull. SWIM MEET - Competative swim meet April 15 and 17 from. 3:30 to 5:00. Entry blank and events available by leaving your name in Coach Knull's mail box (2515). TUG-OF-WAR - Super Star Tug-of-War will be held on April .....l~th. The Contest includes two events: Male teams. consisting of 5 The pursuit of the ball has moved outdoors ... weather permitting. men, and Co-ed teams, consisting of 6 persons. Sign up with Coach Knu\1. Playoff Picture Editors Note: It is not the· policy of this sports page • to deal with the national· professional sports scene, but with the recent import of cable television, ice, and snow it seems only fair to provide an armchair guide to enhance your enjoyment. I only hope somehow, somewhere, some team will surface to provide some excitement in the annual chase of the indominatable Celtics. GREG SULLIVAN As the playoffs began this week the NBA's Boston Celtics and the ABA's New York Nets were attempting to retai'n their league titles. Though both clubs are as · strong as ever, neither figures to have an easy time staying on top. At first glance, it appears that Boston could breeze through. The effects of a~e haven't slowed the team down, as shown by the presence of four Celtics ((orwards John Havlicek and Paul Silas, guard Jo Jo White, and center Dave Cowens) at this year's All- Star game. Boston also will benefit from the first-round bye it drew because of a 60-'22 record, best in the East.. Even more important, however, is the fact that Boston's arch-rivals of recent years - the Los Angeles Lakers, Milwaukee Bu\!ks, and the New York Knicks - have floundered this season, Of these only the l<.nicks qualified for the playoffs, by slipping past Cleveland on the final day of the season. But the Celtics' perspective isn't as bright as these factors indicate. . .. C~ntinued on Page 10 Women's Spring Sports Coach: Sheila Weaver Perky Francis '77 Sari Garb '78 Debbie Sloloroff '78 Dawn Porto '78 Ronnie Zankel '78 Sue Finkelstein '78 Elaine Baldwin '77• Meredith August '76 Gwen Young '78 Gina Pugliese '77 Kathv Reals '18 Cuchi Boullosa '77 Ann Bonvouloir '75 Softball Apr 12 Apr21 Apr 23 Apr 29 May 6 May 8 May 10 May 13 Albany Siena RPI Fulton Mont. RPI sccc HVCC sccc All games are at 4 pm except HVCC, May 10, at I :30 Tennis Coach: Sheila Weaver *Pam Anderson '77 *Faith Cail '78 Aubrey Carton '78 *Susan Draper '78 *Margaret Golden '76 *Ellen Lichtig '78 Tobi Goodman '75 Muffv Hart '78 Sue Rich '75 Lee Russell '76 Nancy Sampson '78 Denise Wachtenheim '78 *Returning players from Fall '74 tacrosse Coach: Susanna Miller Lvn Yelton K.ipp Kelley Julie Rothenstein .lodv Miller Allvne Price Toni Gahn Louise Dunn Ruth K rassenstein Meg Windsor Stephattie C'ondakes Cyndy Pearce Apr 18 Apr 22 Apr 24 Apr 26 Apr 28 Apr 30 Holyoke RPI Smith Siena Skidmore - - -- Russell Sage Home Home Home Home 2pm Home4pm 4pm Home2pm 4pm Chi Psi Chi Psi lived up td pre-season expectations in the intramural basketball playoffs_. defeating the B.S.A. by 2 points in the semis and easing away from the scrappy Don Zee quintet in the A-league final. To reach the final Chi Psi had · to overcome a B.S.A. team which had been devastating in their two previous play-off encounters. Led by Ron Westbrook and John Toomer, the Alliance showed excellent defense and board strength co-mbined with some very accurate long range shooting. Chi Psi had exhibited a devastating fast break as their main weapon although sound in all phases. Chi Psi jumped to an early lead which dwindled slowly due to the hot shooting of John Toomer. With seconds remaining, the B.S.A. had one last try, but a Toomer lay-up rimmed the basket and that was it. Zee's team got to the finals by bumping off cold shooting D Phi. In the finale,. underdogs from the word go, Zee's hustling forces led most of the first half. The roof fell in during the final 20 minutes however as Bill Henson led several successful breaks tor easy scores. OPEN TENNIS TOURNEY - April 27th at 1:00 p.m. there wiU be a tennis tourney for singles. Sign up by April 22nd with Coach Knull. The 1st Annual Chlorine Carnival went over with a big splash. Everyone seemed to have a splendid time. The winning team of Garv Price won with a total of 28 points. Team members included Ben- Green, Gary Goldenberg, Michelle Aronson, Teri Barash and Margaret Ann Maloney. INTRAMURALS May 2, Doubles Tennis .Tournament I :00. Sign-up by April 29. There will be trophies. May 3, Softball, Volleyball, Badminton, Frisbees at Sigma Chi Clambake. May 10, Softball, Volleyball, Badminton, Frisbees on Library Field for Parent's Weekend. May 14-15, Outdoor Track Meet. There will be trophies. May 15, Platform Tennis Tournament - Doubles, 7:00. There will be trophies. Sign up with Coach Knull. May 16, Platform Tennis Tournament - Mixed Doubled, 7:00. There will be trophies. Sign up with Coach Knull. May 24, Tour-de-Campus,.2 events. May 25, The first Annual Union Steeple...chase. A challenging event utilizing the obstacles on campus. HORSEBACK RIDING - This spring five classes of horseback riding are being offered at Triple A Riding Arena. English and Western style instruction will be offered at all levels. Ten lessons of I hour and 15 minutes each will be offered atthe nominal fee of 40 dollars. With good response it is believed that the program will be expanded. • • • • • • p_oints and hauling down many rebounds. • • • • • was played. Ray Marcinowski was standout in defeat scoring Henson, Marcinowski, John Raymond, Toomer and Westbrook were outstanding throughout the play~offs and were a examples of the high level at 27 ~ which the intramural competition In the B..: league final, the Hevey's defeated the Webster Big \S\ 50-47 in overtime. Ed Kulick's 19 second half points and Steve Orzcchowicz•game high 21 points proved the difference in a very close and· exciting contest. Rugby action will once again grace Library Field this Spring.

for llets be gets and the go 6- rtis dec the ure the rge 6-9 1an I I , ltz, in J cir: he or or be I : I ; ' ' I i ' 1 ~ t; ' i· I' I I ~ CONCORDIENSJS, Wednesday, Apri/9, 1975 Page I I • ' • > • , , ,' I • , •1 • I • • , ', , , '' , , ' , • , ' ' .\ < 1 •. < ' / • < ' , , ' •, •' sports Sports Shorts INTRAMl'RAL SOFTBALL - Intramural ,(lfthall ht:!-!an thi' \\eel-. \\ith 50 men-. team~. I I women-. team-. and 2 facult\ team,_ Captain-, have the -.ehedule-. in tht.·ir mailhoxe-.. Softhall h<h 941 ~tudents invol\'cd thi' -;pring. INTRAMl;RAL SOCCER - -\ night 'oceer ka!!ue i' heing or11anited for tht: 'Jll'in!!- Game-, \\ill ht: playt:d Tue,da~ and Thtrr,dav nighh under tht: lil:!hh. 7 man team-.. 'tarh Apnl 29th .. Tu-rn ro,ter-. int\l Coach K null. INTRAMt:RAL B-BALL - I he Chi p,i Intramural Ba,hthall Team \\ill represt:nt l 'ni\ln on April 15 at 7JO at Siena Collq!c. Their fir'~ opponent in the Tournament \\ill he the winner of the S.C'.C.C'. \:-.. H.V.C'.C'. game. ll'iDOOR TRACK MEET- On April lith there \\ill ht.· an ind\Hll intramural track meet. f\cnh: I on!-! .lump. lli,!!h Jump. Shnt Put. 50 \d. da,h. 55 vd. low hurdle~. 4 lap rda~ (4 different pcopk). mile ~cia\ {4 people).I\RO yd. run .. S~c Cllach Michel-on for detaib. PING PONG TOl'RNEY - Spring Intramural Pin!! Pnng tournc\. April 15th ( bt round) fntr~ dcadlim: April I lth v.ith Coach Knull. SWIM MEET- Cnmpetati\L' ~\\im meet /\pril 15 and 17 from 3:30 to 5:00. Fntry hlank and event-. available hy lc,l\ ing ytJur name in Coach Knull\ mail hox (2515) The pursuit of the hall has moved outdo~>rs ... weather permitting. TUG-OF-WAR - Super Star Tug-nf-War \\ill he held on April -lOth. The Contest include~ two cvenh: Male teams, comisting of 5 men. and Co-ed teams. consisting of 6 person~. Sign up with Coach Knull. Playoff Picture Editors Note: It is not the policy of this sports page ' to deal with the national professional sports scene, but with the recent import of cable television, ice, and snow it see1ns only fair to provide an armchair guide to enhance your enjoyment. I only hope somehow, somewhere, some team will surface to provide some excitement in the annual chase of the indominatable Celtics. GREG SULLIVAN As the playoffs began this week the NBA's Boston Celtics and the ABA's New York Nets were attempting to retain their league titles. Though both clubs are as strong as ever, neither figures to have an easy time staying on top. At first glance, it appears that Boston could breeze through. The effects of age haven't slowed the team down, as shown by the presence of four Celtics (forwards John Havlicek and Paul Silas, guard Jo J o White, and center Dave Cowens) at this year's All- Star game. Boston also will ber1efit from the first-round bye it drew because of a 60-22 record, best in the East. Even more important, however, is the fact that Boston's arch-rivals of recent years - the Los Angeles Lakers, Milwaukee Bucks. and the New York Knicks -- have floundered this season. Of these only the Knicks qualified for the playoffs, by sli{>ping past Cleveland on the final day of the season. But the Celtics' perspective isn't as bright as these factors indicate. . . . Continued on Page 10 Women's Spring Sports Coach: Sheila Weaver Perky Francis '77 Sari Garb '78 Dehhie Sloloroff '7R Dawn Porto '78 Ronnie Zankel '78 Sue Finkelstein '78 Elaine Baldwin '77 Meredith August '76 Gwen Young '78 Gina Pugliese '77 Kathy Rea Is '78 Cuchi Boullosa '77 Ann Bonvouloir '75 Softball Apr 12 Apr 21 Apr 23 Apr 29 May 6 May 8 May 10 May 13 Albany Siena RPI Fulton Mont. RPI sccc HVCC sccc All games are at 4 pm except HVCC. May 10. at I :30 Tennis Coach: Sheila Weaver *Pam Anderson ·n *Faith Cail '78 Auhrey Carton '78 *<;;usan Draper '7R *Margaret Golden '76 *Ellen Lichtig '7R Tohi Goodman '75 M uffv Hart '7R Sue Rich '75 l.ce Russell '76 :-.:ancv Samp~on '78 Dcni~e Wachtcnheim '7K *Rcturninp: playen from Fall'74 Lacrosse Coach: Susanna Miller l.yn Yelton K ipp Kelley Julie Rothemtcin .I ody M i l!er Allvne Price Toni Gahn l.nuise Dunn Ruth K rassenstein Meg Windsor Stephanie Con<lakes Cyndy Pearce Apr 18 Apr 22 Apr 24 Apr 26 Apr 2R Apr 30 Holyoke RPI Smith Siena Skidmore Russell Sage Home Home Home Home 2pm Home4pm 4pm Home2pm 4pm Home4 pm Chi Psi Chi Psi lived up to pre-season expectations in the intramural basketball playoffs. defeating the B.S.A. by 2 points in the semis and easing away from the scrappy Don Zee quintet in the A-feague final. To reach the final Chi Psi had to overcome a B.S.A. team which had been devastating in their two previous play-off encounters. Led bv Ron Westbrook and John T.oomer, the Alliance showed excellent defense and board strength combined with some very accurate long range shooting. Chi Psi had exhibited a devastating fast break as their main weapon although sound in all phases. Chi Psi jumped to an early lead which dwindled slowly due to the hot shooting of John Toomer. With seconds remaining, the B.S.A. had one last try, but a Toomer lay-up rimmed the basket and that was it. Zee's team got to the finals by bumping off cold shooting D Phi . In the finale, underdogs from the word go, Zee's hustling forces led most of the first half. The roof fell in during the final 20 minutes hnwever as Bill Henson led several successful breaks tor easy OPEN TENNIS TOURNEY - April 27th at I :00 p.m. there will he a tenni~ tourney for sinl:!le:-.. Sign up hy April 22nd with Coach K null. The 1st Annual Chlorine Carnival went over with a hig splash. F.Yt:none ~eemed to have a ~plendid time. The winning team of Gar\~ Price won with a total of 2R points. Team member~ included Ben- Green. Gary Goldenberg. Michelle Aromon. Teri Barash and Margaret Ann Maloney. INTRAMURALS May 2, Doubles Tenni~ Tournament I :00. Sign-up hy April 29. There will he t rophie\. May 3, Softhall. Volleyball. Badminton. Frisbees at Sigma Chi Clam hake. May 10, Softhall. Volleyhall. Badminton. Frisbees on I.ihrary Field for Parent\ Weekend. May 14-15, Outdoor Track Meet. There will he trophies. May 15, Platform Tennis Tournament Doubles, 7:00. There will he trophies. Sign up with Coach K null. May 16, Platform Tennis Tournament Mixed Doubled, 7:00. There will he trophies. Sign up with Coach Knull. May 24, Tour-de-Campus. 2 events. May 25, The first Annual Union Steeple-.chase. A challenging event utili1ing the obstacles on campus. HORSEBACK RIDING - This spring five classes of horsehack riding are heing offered at Triple A Riding Arena. English and Western style instruction will be offered at all levels. Ten lessons of I hour and I 5 minutes l'ach will be offered at the nominal fee of 40 dollars. With good response it is believed that the program will be expanded. • • • • • • points and hauling down many rebounds. Henson, Marcinowski, John Ravmond, Toomer and We;tbrook were outstanding • • • • • was played. scores. Ray standout Marcinowski was m defeat scoring throughout the play-offs and were a , examples of the high level at 27 • which the intramural competition In the 8-league final, the Hevey's defeated the Webster Big \S\ 50-47 in overtime. Ed Kulick's 19 second half points and Steve Orzechowicz• game high 21 points proved the difference in a very close and exciting contest. ~;, - ·~i-. <·:. -.::.._ .. Ru!(by action will once again grace Library Field this Spring.

I ~ ; ' ·Page 12 CONCORDIENSJS, Wednesday, Apri/9, ]975---------------=-------- Senior Charlie Gugliotta, in t:. CA. C. tourney actiun, received '74-'75 Division HI honors. Garnet Nine Set by DICK WILLIAMS Upon landing from a fun-filled and productive .. pre-season excursion to Memorial Field House, this year's Saseball team hopes to improve on last year's 6- 9 record and make a strong bid for their second ECAC Tournament slot in three years. Head Coach Art Lawrence starts his 31st season with nothing but enthusiasm for this year's squad. To quote the venerable mentor himself, \This team reminds me of the one I coached in '44.\ A great deal of the team's success will depend on the effectiveness of its pitching staff. This year's mound corps consists of Senior Co-Captain Joe Urschel, sophomores Charlie Flanagan, John Sargent, John Mayer, and freshman southpaw Chuck Lampson. Behind the plate wil.l be sophomore Mark Broomfield, sporting a strong arm as well as an explosive bat. Sharing the Garnet backstop duties will be Freshman John Kennedy. Co..Captain Ron Westbrook will anchor a strong infield at shortstop. Ron is now in his· fourth year of Varsity competition, and will be counted on heavily to lead this team through a difficult schedule that includes the likes of Colgate, RPI and Siena. Ron is a spectacular fielder and will be looking to regain the hitting form that should make Union's games required material for several Major League scouts. Don Milder will return at third base after leading the team in hitting last year. \Dandy Don\ has had an impressive pre-season but is being pushed by freshman Dan Degregory. John Busterud, who took a year off to straighten out his ankle, will man the chores at second base. Milder and Busterud will be instrumental in providing the team with a strong defensive infield. Randy Ruschak, Freshmen Carmon Gatta and Chuck Lampson are currently in a struggle for the First Base .iob. Carmon and Chuck utilize t long reach and jumping abilit Baseball Coach Art Lawrence observing action on Alexander Field; B·Ban Sweeps E.C.-A.C. Ends ,21·4 by HANK BERNSTEIN & BRIAN tUCKER No more bouncing basketballs, final (although he was fouled in no more packed stands, no more his attempt to dunk the ball in the bow4ied Scanlon screaming closing seconds of the g;;une). instructions to his troops, ne Overall Charlie has been Hnlon's more exciting hoop on the court, leading rebounder and .. scorer no more cheerleaders. The 1974- during the past two. yeai:s:-·1f~ 75 Union College basketball career stats show 12.4 points per season is over. Leroy is in game coupled with 1.1 rebounds Califomia, Mody is sporting a per contest. As Scanlon put it, beard, Crawford has picked up a \We•u miss Chatlie most because tennis racket, Geese is dearing .he rebaunds in crowds; he was cigar smoke from his eyes, and terrific for us .. In the tournament Denio is wondering if he can he was rebounding like a man learn a new sport in time for the amo.ng boys.'' spring season. The close~knit ·Kevin Crawford's 3 year varsity Garn~t team has gone its separate career-here at Union was summed ways after compilinp a sp.arkling , up superbly by the Union mentor. 20-4 season mark, ltlciudm.g the \I sincerely believe that Kevin was ECAC Upstate New York the team leader in spirit, respect, Division III Tournament and dedication- he never missed Championship. Scanlon . now practice. He has a tremendous boasts a 40-8 record over h1s twe amount of character.\ Kevin is years as Union's head. co~ch. N~~t quite an individual and although year, however, our tn-captams never a starter, he always phryed will be missing from the roster ~ with desire and frequently Charlie Gugliotta, Billy Carmody, sparked the team ejther from the and Kevin Crawford. Mody is bench or on the ·court. already an alumnus, having Those fans who enjoy 'magic' completed his academics for will undoubtedly miss Billy graduation last ~erni, while G~g Carmody in the backcourt. Mody ana Crawford wdl be th.rough m owns the game, single season, and June. career assist records here at Gugliotta completed his three seasons of varsity play with 20 Urth<>n. . According to coach Sc~I!}~nJ_~'Ii'~Y's ... C?tittibution ~-;:n't ·6e expbtined simply by his statistics ~ it gees. deeper than that.· Fie is a knowledgeable and heady playmahr who has brought crowds to . their feet countless ..times with his sparkling play. \Just his presence on the COl).i't ... , the entite team bas confidence in him, especially in tight situations.. He has not reacned his peak yet.'' lhus another chapter in the history of Union College basketball has been completed. What will next year hold:? Obviously it's hard to predict n<'w; each year the schedule gets tougher and toug~er. Our defen~e should be solid, but the key is whether we will be able to move the ball and generate an effective offense. Don't bet against it ~ SJ<anlon and the boys have a way of making things happen. Editor's Note: Senior Captains Gugliotta and Carmody have 'both Feceived All-American honors in division #3 for their past season's exploits. points and 14 rebounds against Oneonta State in the tournament - snare any errant throw in their Lacrosse Opens direction. Randy or \Ransom\ is back ·On the squad after a two year absence and will help out the offense with his skills as a switch hitter. At one outfield spot will be Soph Gary Borgese Geese covets a lot .of ground in Center field and has a strong and accurate·· arm. Senior Lou Miller will man left field and ·is hoped to provide the team with much needed power at the plate. In right field will be Senior Steve A.ndrews backed up by frosh Dave Kahn. \Easy\ Andrews is perhaps the most versatile player on the '75 squad with standout defensive credentials and a willing bat. This year's Baseball team has the potential to be ane of the best Union has fielded in many years. There are fine hitters all through. the lineup, and the defense should be superb, With good pitching, always the critical variable, Art Lawrence's diamond men should improve on last year's record and could quite possibly qualify for a shot at the ECAC Flag in mid. May. · Rugby The Union Rugby Club opened tts season Saturday with a match 1gainst the Siena Rugby Club. Despite the snow and the cold winds the Union club played an !XceUent match against the larger ~iena squad. The ••A\ team was 1ble to overcome its lack .of size md experience to play to ·a 4-4 :ie. Outstanding performances were put in by Vince Verdile, Jim frump, Chris Taylor, Bruce Eggleston 1 • and Mitch Lubart. A ;trong \B\ squad was then able to t:leat their Siena opponents in an 11-0 travesty. · The club will play their second match of the season with the Schenectady Rugby Team on Saturday in Central Park, Schenectady. . . by FRANCESCO ISGRO Seniar Bob Grossman will lead the Union Lacrosse Team this ~aturday as it hosts to Hartwick in the season's opening game. Grossman who led the nation in assists last spring, and took runner-up honors in most points scored in Division 11-lll, will be the key man to watch this season. Missing from last year's record- setting team will be Dennis Walker who last Spring was the leading scorer in the country. The combination of Grossman and Walker was one of the principal factors in last year's impressive II-3 record. The Garnet also took runner-up honers in the annual ECAC Upstate New York lacrosse Tournament. Senior Bill Garofalo, the key man in defense, along with Robert Grossman, have been elected as this year's co-captains. Line l.Jp The squad's offensive team will be led by Grossman, sophomore John Th.ompson and Steve Gullans. Sophomore John Eklund, and a trio of freshmen will provide solid backing for the starting line-up. · The mid:fielders will all be · returning lettermen. Leading the group will be juniors Don Ward, Bruce Davis, Charles Howe, Jim Thomps9n, and sophomore Carl Walker. Also seniors Dennis Demuth and Mike Deschler will team with freshmen Chris Pike, Ritchie Easton, Andy Brades, and Morris Wallack. · Co-Captain Bill Garofalo is expected to head the defense along with senior Mike Garone. The duet will be backed by frosh Kenny Beck, Pete Karman, and Kurt Schumann. The most impartant question m this first game, is whether Grossman can team up with either \Thompson or Gullans, as well as he did with Dennis Walker last year. Defensively the team is very strong. The midfield will be much improved froin last year's, Bob Grossman readies for .final lacrosse tampai~n. and will also be a key. Of course, in lacrosse the goaltending is always a factor. In goal for the Garnet this season will be junior AI Ritchie and sophomores Steve Haddad and Ed Hayes. Ritchie and Haddad handled the chore last year so experience ~ill not be lacking in this vital position. Team Outlook Hartwick will put the Garnets'·, Union's Athletic Director Bruce strengths and weaknesses to a real ' ; Allison, w:ho has coached the- test. In 1973, Union played lacrosse team for 18 years; is very Hartwick in its opening game. lt careful· in giving his opinion of was the first time ever that the this year's team. As he puts it,'his two squads had met and· the team is undefeated. ••we haven't Dutchmen dropped a 12-7 loss. scored a goal but we haven't lost This year hopefully, the record a game.\ will be evened; pres and at this Del fieh nigl - ' i

1e In m td ld ld iO in ts' at :d It 1e le iS. rd ch )n 1is !lll tld as :et ng he 1as Ill tOt he ge :d. ld? ict ets 1se is •ve tve •ay . ns ve :an teir Ill 1er ith as ~er is be r;s > ' l ; \ ,ORIENTATION ADVISORS Applications available at Student Activities deadline: Friday, April 18th. Get zeened for free ai PDT! Phi Delt and IJ Clli present the band Suntour and the beer Black Label' at their big Spring Bash this Fridl\y_ijle iSth, at Phi Delt above the lacrosse field at 9:00 p.m. Dance all night! \There's just no humor on tl1is campus.'' W. Enteman Vol. 104, No. 19 Hugh -1llf:m Wilson photo by Arthur Miller Department of the Arts: At the C.rossroads by DAVID MOSKOWITZ ln the midst of the re- organization and re-evaluation going on today at Union lies the Department of the Arts - long ignored, u nd erfina n ce d, understaffed, and is now faced with a changing future. Art as a major did not exist IS years ago at Union - only three men in each ·of the areas of art, music, and drama were available for instruction. Other schools of Union's size, such as Williams, Haniilton, and Amherst have long fostered the Arts as a necessary part of their curriculum and physical plant, Union has long neglected tliis area. Bonner. While his predecessor stresses the more philosophic asp,ects of the Arts, President Bo'imer emphasizes a practical, concrete commitment. Professor Edgar Curtis commented that, \Regardless of his aesthetic commitment, he is aware that Union cannot survive without a consideration of the Arts.,. Professor Bittleman stressed that at Union it is the President, along with the Trustees, who must \set a direction for the department &fter consulting with the faculty ... So, as Union belatedly attempts Continued on Page 9 35 cents Union R,eceives Mellon Grant Fruitful Programs Made Possible The Andrew W. Mellon Foundation of New York City has given Union Coll¢ge a $250,000 grant to finance the first three years of a proposed program of faculty development, SPECIAL TO CONCORDIENSIS designed to help faculty members avoid stagnation in their academic careers . The Andrew W. Mellon Foundation, one of the nation's largest general foundations, New Go.vernment? by LEE RIMSKY The All-College Senate meeting at the end of this month may bring a new student government to the Union campus. If the Senate approves the new College governance proposal,. it will in turn be approving the new student governance proposal, and both proposals will be instituted and in full gear by nex.t year. The student government proposal is a fairly radical change from the present system. Its purpose is primarily to increase communication within the student government and between the student government and the students themselves. It is also designed to correct certain weaknesses in the present system and to clearly define the responsibilities of the institutions within the structure. The following groups make up Continued Ql) Page 9 annually awards grants totalling more than $30 million to institutions and organizations in education, health and medicine, and community service. Announcement of the grant to Union was made by the Fo.undation's president, Nathan M. Pusey, former President of Harv_ard. Union proposed the program to the foundation in the -hope of providing a national model for other colleges. Included among the specific proposals were: A plan permitting faculty members to return to the classroom in order to learn new academic disciplines or to broaden their understanding of subjects related to their main concerns.· A n o p p o r t u n 1 t y' t o explore alternate c.a.reer choices, especially in the fields of law and medicine, using Union's associations with Albany Law Continued on Page 4 Union Stays Afloat Over a dozen New York State private colleges have closed their doors during the past two years because of their financial difficl.Hties. Union College, however, plans to operate on a balanced budget, or even with a surplus, during the remainder of this decade, declared Provost Willard F. Enteman in a talk before the Union College Alumni Association's Albany Club. now rahter than sending them a letter, as some institutions do, at this time of the year saying that next year's tuition will be at some inflated rate ... According to Arts Department Chairman Bugh Allen Wilson, one explanation for the non- indoctrination of the Arts program into life at Union was a kind of old fashioned, middle- class pragmatism. He predicted t h a t s uc h a p o 1 i c y o f \practicallity\ would not carry the College into the 2lst century~ Art Professor Arnold Bittleman explains that Union College \has not done what other schools assume· is basic\ in terms of emphasizing development of Arts programs; Bittelman commented that the more prestigious colleges such as Harvard, Ya.le, Dartmouth, and Williams have always represented American society's mercantile aristocracy\ and have stressed Arts programs for their own sake. He asserted that at Union the mentality of the middle.,class has persisted; and hence consideration of the Arts as a non-essential. Schenectady Lieutimant This financial \anti-trend\ has been going on for the past three years,. during which Provost Enteman was able to report an average surplus of about $250,000 annually - revevsing the previous six-year annual average deficit of the same amount. He predicted that \'we shall not see any more surpi'Usses on that order of magnitude ($250,000), though we fuHy intend to run a balanced budget through the rest of the decade.\ .. That poses. an extra burden on us for working out the planning function, but I think it · is important to demonstrate to the parents and the public that we can plan ahead and help to that extent.. .. \ Most of the manifestatio.ns of this close-mindedness and negativism and a new optimism have taken over, beginning with the .regime of President Thomas to Union Chief Clifford Wood, 49, has been appointed as the new Chief of Police for the Union College Security Department. He replaces the retiring chief, John P. Hannon and will work under the Director of Security, John Kleinkauty. Schenectady-born and reared, Lt. Wood has been ·with the Schenectady Police Department for 26 years, progre!.sing through the ranks of Sergeant and Detective Se(geant to his present position as co'rnm11nding officer of the Detective Division and the head of the Youth Aid Division, with the rank _ of Lieutenant. He is married and has six children. This app.ointment constitutes one of tbe proposals formulated by the Security Task Force, which ' ... - has been studying the entire campus security system. (The final report by the committee is expected to be submitted on May 9th.} When questioned about the new appointment, committee chairman Glenn Wolfson stated, \The appointment of Lt. Wood as new Chief of Police is a definite step in making our security force more student .. oriented. He seems to be very receptive to the problems experienced--by students and I think that he will relate well to the student body.\ Lt. Wood is no stranger to the Union College campus. Outing the student protests of 1969, he was chosen by the students at Union to be the Schenectady Police Officer that they most often wanted to talk to. He will assume his new post on May 5th. In fact, said Provost Enteman, \costs and expenses for an institution like Union College inflate somewhat more rapidly than the national economy.\' He gave as an example, \library acquisitions have been inflating at a compound rate of 25% to.30% over the past two years. A college is what the economists would call a labor-intensive industry.\ He also pointed out that while tuition now makes up almost 6Q% of Union's total revenue, and is \the one area over which it has some leverage, we ... warn ourselves repeatedly that we are in serious danger of pricing ourselves out of the market (for qualified, tuition p.aying students).\ \Unlike most of our competition,\ said Provost Enteman, \we do try to program ourselves ahead of time so that we can tell parents what the tuition rate will look like two years from New Prof Eugene Schneller, presently Assistant Professor .. of Community Health Services at Duke University Medical Center, will become the next chairman of Union College's Sociology Department. In addition to his formal duties, Professor Schneller will continue his research on the Physician Assistants Program, funded by a $300,000 grant from the U.S. government. Prof. Schneller's teaching interests include introductory sociology, sociology of occupations and professions, and the sociology of work and complex organizations.

.• .,' ·. Page2 CONCORDIENS/S, Wedrt'esday, Apri/16, 1975 · ~ia~ ~Jt#. atmunrC$1Ziltttdlts · .... 4l} . . Edttors-m-chtef.. .......... ;; .• ~ •..... Jonathan Scheer. - Peter Sobol Features Editor ................... Lee Rimsky Culture Editors .................. Mike Affinito .. · David Moskowitz Sports Editors ................. Kevin Crawford . Barb Dewey Managing Editor .............. Chris O'Connor Copy Editor ..................... Phil Alcabes Contributing Editors ............... Judy Dein Rob Mondschein ~, Bill Talis Business Manager .............. Bob Harleman National Advertising .............. Betsy Barnet Subscriptions .................... Shelley Gold . Lisa Tietz Darkrooin Boys: Greg Cohen, ·Dan McManamon, Rich Guardian. Rudy Lu, Arthur Miller • Staff: Lanee Travis, Bill Plaus, John Busterud, Sue . Brichtman. CONCORDIENSIS is published every Wednesday by the. stpdent body of Union College, Old Gym Hall, Schenectady, • N.Y.; to which Postal Forms 3579 are directed. Publications Office: The Jewish World Publications, 416 Smith St., . Schenectady, N.Y. 12305 (370-5483). Entered in the Schenectady Post Office as Second Class Matter. Subscription Rate 35 cents per copy. $8.00 a year delivered anywhere in' the United States. eharmin~ earman President 'Bonner has· said repeatedly that one of the major goals of this college is the improvement of communications between administrators and students, between students and faculty, and between faculty and administration. He has maintained that his plans are not mere rhetoric but are, on the contrary, to be forcefully implemented. Despite his good intentions and bold administrative shake-up, it appears that communications have, in certain important sections, deteriorated rather than improved. The strained relations between Concordy and the office of Public Relations, headed by Bernard Carman, offers an example of such communication breakdown. In a recent incident, Mr. Carman refused to relinquish to Concordy a photograph taken of Union students burning ex-President Richard Nixon in effigy following the 1969 Cambodian bombings. The picture, taken by a student in that year, appeared in the May I, 1970 issue of Concordy. Iri- justifying his refusal to relinquish the print, while at the same time relinquishing pictures of the other rallies. protests etc., Carman stated that in the opinion of a Presidential advisory board formed in the spring of 1970 (of which he was a member) the issuance of that photograph to the \general press\ would -be detrimental to the public image of the college. In remarking that the decision. of that body had not in more recent years been overturned, he said that he could not in good faith allow Concordy to publish such a controversial photo. The argument, in light of Mr. Nixon's recent demise, reduces to absurdity. ln no way could the publication of this photograph diminish Union's fine reputation in the re~l world, nor would it encourage prospective donors to think twice before giving money to this institution. To many, the incident may seem trite, but it is indicative of the attitude that Mr. Carman has taken towards this publication. We all agree that the student newspaper can. and needs to be improved. With the cooperation of th~ Public Relations office the college community might have a more distinguished student newspaper; without it, not only will the differences between these two offices remain unsettled, but Dr. Bonner's hopes for improved communications will remain unfulfilled as well. JMS yov said it tenure tyranny \To inaugurate is to begin we shall mount a powerful effort to build a college that cares; that is alive to the need for change and responsive to new ideas; ... that is sensitive to the need for beHer communications and for a national audience for the College; and that is flexible, open, and humane in dealing with others and with ourselves.\ In his inaugural address, Dr. Boriner has made clear the commitment of the College to the individual student. This has been acurately described as the greatest asset of the small college environment. However, this commitment has been obscured by the recent denial of te.nurability of Professors Pat Allen and David Stineback;-- A reluctance to overturn thes~ , decisions has served only to magnify the inflexibility of this college's administration. The situation is particularly distressing considering the distinct capabilities of each of these men. Both professors demonstrate an unfailing commitment to their students as individuals and consistently maintain high acapemic standards and expectation. The insistence upon excellence in com.munication through language is the most important aspect of any education. Each professor's concern in this regard is demonstrate$~ not only by his . grading, but by his careful commentary as well. Neither hesitates . to criticize faults or withhold recognition of excellence except where it is genuinely deserved. Quite simply, this courage demands respect. Their academic expeetations do not interfere with a sincere concern for each student. Both men have made it a point to be readily available for consultation not only as teachers but as sympathetic counselors. \The relationship between a young person and a caring adult is central to the educational experience.\ Once again, in his inaugural address, President · Bonner has shown a specific concern for this kind of personal interaction. As students who have been associated with these two men for several years, we cannot help but feel a substantial gratitude for their presence and a very real bitterness for the way they have been slighted. An integral part of a professor's evaluation . is an allegedly exhaustive analysis of student opinion. Significantly, the majority student opinion has not been reflected in the - decisions regarding Professors Allen and Stineback. These student views have similarly been ignored in the appeal decisions. Perhaps it is unnecessary to point out that students, not colleagues or administrative personnel, benefit from attending class. In addition,. President Bonner has not been able to ignore the fact that \Increasingly the burden of support for higher education falls upon the student and his family.\ We expect the administration to be aware of the sacrifices that many students and , their families are forced to make. , This college is dependent upon its recruitment program to secure a large number of students capable of assuming the major portion of that financial responsibility. Many of these students are actively recruited from affluent schools so that this college may be assured of a .solid financial base. The admissions department makes every effort to entic~ the potential student with promises of an education that is tailored to his or her individual ne!:ds. It might prove unfortunate for this college if these students graduate without having experie:nc.ed this personally~tailored education. It might behoove the College to consider a more favorable decision with regard to Professors Allen and Stine back. To actively pursue a course of action in concordance with the aims that President Bonner has outlined as crucial to the· survival of the small independent college would be clearly beneficial. A sensitive and thoughtful review of these two ·cases would b,e indicative of a positive effort on the part of Union •s administration to reaffirm its commitment to the viability of private education.~ Some explanation of the basis of these two decisions is overdue for both students and fQ.culty. We are confident that Dr. Bonner will seek a course of action that will be mutually beneficial. Sincerely, E.H. Richardson III Lynl! Wintriss birthright Editors, Concordiensis: We would like to introduce ourselves to you. We are among those in the community who are most concerned with the scared, the resentful, the angry, and the' often tearful girl who finds herself .... pregnant. Who can help, more importantly, who will listen? We will. Birthright. Birthright is staffed by trained volunteers and operates on financial donations by individuals and organizations. Birthr.ight is independent, non-political, non~ sectarian and prepared to help the single or married regardless of age, race or religion. How do we help? - Anenymous pregnancy tests - Education guidance ~ Referral to community facilities Medical care Legal advice Adoption information Other ways depending on the individual circumstances. One needn't be pressured into aboPtion by friends, personal physicians, or family. There are positive alternatives to abortion. No questions are asked, no judgments made, no strings attached. Uur help Is tree ana confidential. We effer a sharing experience, the hand of a caring THE BLOODMOBILE Will ·be at Union from 11:00 until 5:00 on Thursday, May 8 and 9:00 until 3:00 on Friday, May 9. DON'T FORGET .. , Meeting of eyeryone interested in the performing arts Monday, April 21st, in the Nott Memorial at 7:30 p.m. friend. We are: Birthright 802 State Street Schenectady, N.Y. 12307 haddoek? Editors, co.-.cordlensis. Recently I embarked on an organization truly ·~dedicated ta the proposition that all men are created equal\ - equal in the sense that everyone'!! exciting ·ideas and intelligent {even not so inteHig,~nt) opinions are important. The worldwide organization is called C.A.R,P. (CoUdgiate Association fQr the Research of Principles). It is devoted to combining the various disciplines (science, art, philosoph:Y, pelitics, economics, religion) in discussions centering on tnan's potential for happiness, p·erSomi,lly and worldwide. The lecture I attended was fascinating and the atmQsphere - one of mutual respect between people of differing cultures was tremendously inspiring (perhaps even more inspiring than Schaffer library's atmosphere}. The lecture may not have expanded world perspectives, put it certainly expanded my perspective about the world. Perhaps an individual effort is needed. Along with that however, this group seems to be making a personal commitment towards increasing communication · in our world. Take a study break -and learn something. Jayne Maller· earnegie blast Editors, Concordiensis: The Great Carnegie Party is an example of how enthusiasm and a spirit of cooperation can create successful events. A number of different people and organizations worked together and were instrumental _ in organizing the evening. Special thanks go to Adele Gabbay and Karen Spar, both of whom were tremendously helpful. Their diligence and drive were critical in planning the party. FIJI, Delta Chi, ·Cabaret, Maintenance, WRUC, and Saga all played an important part in the success of the party. The Provost, Dean of Faculty, Dean of Students, D·i~ector of Admissions and the Director of Housing all donated kegs of beer. Thanks to all of you who helped make the Great Carnegie Party a success. • Craig Carlson Admissions The Capital District Chapter of the Association for Systems Management will hold a dinner meeting on Wednesday, April 16, 1975 at the Holiday Inn, 1614 Central Avenue (Route S), Colonie, New York. The speaker will be Mr. Leon J. Calhoun, Sr., Director of Personnel, State University of N.Y. at Albany. Everyone is invited at attend. Social hour is 6:00 P.M., dinner 7:00P.M. and speaker 8:00 P.M. CORRECTION In the April 9 edition of CllNCORDY.a sentence in ~i'letter to· the Editors from David Eilbott and Matt Brief should have read: ''Under normal circumstances we do not feel that we would have to justify our actions, but in light of Bill \Vi\ Talis' recent article ... we feel we have no alternative but to ~xplain our motives.'' ln .J and C1 under divers cqmp, thoug who today cours1 catmc ex per are a· paren only stop t snide fai.h.i.t stu.de priori and study Cti not I cr.itic revel absu1 vene1 sevell New from critic that repH twen your and Won poop hom1 from inco1 wiil1 .-rrow· ,, isn't percc Ct more than is tc if y( very mea: and intn law over one· stud socic imp turn part bare sho, stud evi1 repl Co Lov one mill to l mat 196 c on Thi Wh lync wit1 Hie Kl:l As we'! nee Ro call a ~ doi are (

an ta ing so ,P. is rt, ing ing of be ng a le r. a CONCORDIENS!S, Wed_nesday, ApriT 16, 1975 ..... : Criticizing Critics by R.B. THAtr ln recent years, college stl.ld~nt~ cliquish, rather than community- an4 c;:elleges hi general h~:~.ve come oriented, This is possibly the only under frequent attack by-' many valid criticism. Although student~ diverse parties. The major . ·Who are st-rangers t(> each other cqmponent of this critical group are constantly exchanging the though, are the students' parents social amenities in. such novel who pretend· to know all about ways as staring at their shoes ot today's college experience. Of over each others heads into the course, we know that parents distance, the severe shortage of cannot truly understand .the mailrooms on campus keeps the ·experiences of their children who average student from making new are away at school; after all, the .!t,equaintances. Even tbough fhe parents doh't go to cellege, they :administration, through brilliant only pay for it. This fact doesn't· insight,· has made an inroad into stop fh~ir criticizing, however, and rectifying this paucity, additional snide remarks are made about the funds should be approp.riated for failure of colleges to prepare the immediate construction of stu.dents for the future, mixed-up m11ilrooms in the Skeller; the prierities, drug and liquor use, Fieldhouse, the Gym, and the and partying rather than middle of Library Field to afford studying. , . students the possibility of meeting · l'his cpltimn is devoted to discussions with tbe powers-that-be. In this, tbe /first installment, CON CORDY talks tc Debbie Kilgus, Director of Housing . by LEE RIMSKY Now that spring term is here, questiop.s abol.lt housing will becotne mo-re and more important. Ms. Debbie Kilgus, Director of Housing, is trying to come up with answers to these questions with various objectives Cops and Robbers! Cviticism No. l-,Colleges are new people. not realistic social models. This It is obvious that most of the criticism, . if exa1~ined closely, is criticisms of Union . or any . other revealed to be thorol.lghly college (:!.re ridiculously trivial or absurd'. Here at staid and totally inaccurate. There is venerable Union College, enly nothing wrong with college life seven of ten students are from·, . that graduation won't cute. Opinion ., In March the Security Office began running a report of its actions taken in foiling and subduing the activities of subversive elements on our campus. This report is known as the Security Activities Log. . Concordy feels that it is only right New York and only one of five · from Long lsland. Surely the critics can't ,be serious in saying that these proportions are not representa~i:ve nationally. Aren't twenty percent of the ·people in your home towns of Great Neck and Hewlett from Long Island? Won't seventy percent of the people you meet when you go hotne to Rochester or Utiaa be G S . . . overnance ·1tuat1on . - from New York? And isn't it by Rob Mondschein inconeeivable that we students persons who wotlld be competent will ,ever move from where we live Union College was formed in for this task, but received their ,'!lO\v,J Surely the United. States the spirits of th€ American and approval by a vote of the Senate. that some of the more heroic and forceful responses of our fearless men in blue be recognized here. 3/ 18/75; l :10! Manager of Rathskeller reported' trouble with two non-student drunks. Manager did not want drunks arrested if at a'll possible. {;ampus Patrolmen escorted them off campus. 3(20/75; 3:50 am~ Complaints of loud music at DU. Quieted down on request of campus patrolman. 3./20/75; 4:45 am: Complaints of loud noise at DU. Quieted on request of campus patrolman. 3/25/75; 1:00 p.m.: Report of .. exhibitionist\ in Schaffer Library, Individual located and interviewed. Has been advised to- stay off Campus and out of buildings or he will be charged with illegal. trespass and j or other aP'Jlropriate chat:ges. Page3 in mind:' to increase the appeal of various dorms, ·to make certain adjustments in the light of specific housing problems, and to insure that the lottery (to be held May 12-1 (j) for next year's rooms runs smoothly and maximizes the interests of students. Ms. Kilgus has been investigating the possibility of making Richmond (all-women) and Davidson (all-mel}) coed next year. Ms. Kilgus indicated that this .investigation began because incoming freshmen ••have demonstrated a preference for coed rooms,\ and a \large number. of people move out' of these dorms each year.\ No resistance was encountered in regard to Davidson, but when questionnaires were distributed to determine whether or not Richmond women .wanted their dorm to go coed, approximately thirty women objected to the proposed change. In addition, Ms. Kilgus reported that \quite a few oth~ women s-tudents have met with\'!Pme personally in- order to ex::press their preference •for more all-women's housing.-' Since McKean, North, and SmitR cannot accommodate a large enough number of women, the phin to make Richmond coed has been discarded. Davidson, however will probably boast ·at least one and possibly several floors of women. This is an important adjustment as a resttlt of the increased percentag€ of women in next year's freshman • cla~s. · Ms. Kilgus also discussed the Continued on page 4 isn't more than tWo-and-a-half French Revolutions. However, Cont!nued on Page 5 ~~mhl~k.~~~reu~~~ ~~~~~F~~h~~~·~-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~M·~~~~~~~~~\~~~~~~~~*~~' Criticism No. 2-Students cate . be more influential at Union in· more about personal enjoyment the area of governance than the than about the future. This attack American example! In the coming is totally preposterous. Examine, weeks. a report on the if you will, the situation on this testructuring of the governance very campus, where recently the and administration of the College meager total of only ni,ne hundred will be submitted to the All- and sixty students signed up for College Senate for its approval. intramural softball, while the pnio This will radically change the law society attracted an system of governance and overwhelming turnout of eight, or administration which Was one-half of one percent of the approved in the Spring of 1971. student population. The pre-law Union's present system was, in society attendance is even more its conception, a very progressive impressive when compared to the governance system that sought to turnout for free cocktails and a allow all members of the College party at the' student union, where community, faculty and students barely one~thousand students as Well as the administrators and &howed up. Further proof of Trustees, to have a real voice in student concern for the future is the operations of the institution. evidenced by last year's ln actuality, the present system repatkable turnout for former was not accomplishing this end. c 0 n g res s m a n Allard The All~College Senate, at the Lowenstein: eleven students, end of the fall term, mandated the one more than necessary for a fo·rma tion of an ad hoc minyan. traveled distances up Committee on Governance. The to a quarter of a mile to see a reasons for this were maialy due man who led the movement in to the inadequacies of--the present 1968 to dump President Johnson. structure, but also to the fact that Criticism No. 3-Race relations there was a new President of the on college campuses are strained. College who wanted· the whole This belief is utterly fallacious. community to be a part of the When was the last race riot or running of the College, The committee consists. of five · lynching at Union? l''ve never witnessed a cross burning at members: Jonathan Levin ('15), Hickok H..ouseor a meeting of the who acted as the committee's · K1:1 Klux Klan in Strauss lounge. chairman; Provost Willard ,. 1 . As a matter M fact, Union is so E nteman, who is the. we'll integrated that there .is no administration's · representative;.· need t<t bus whites to Lenox Debra Glasser ('75), who was the Road Ql' blacks to the lower student representative; fac~lty · · member . Anton Warde; , imd camp_.us. The othe.rday 1 even saw Alfred Mitchell, who·was'the staff a blac~ and a white in tne same dorm, yet critics sl:l,y,race ·relations. representative. These persons are strained. · were suggested to the All·C()!le~e Criticism No. 4--Cpllege~ . a.r~ ~ _se.nate by the administration, as - What kind of man reads Concordy? A man who commands respect .from the community. · PACT: More people readCo~tcordy than listen to Mark Smith. photo by Dan McManamon

•',,• ' ,.t• I ' ' •' ,: ,, ... I I iii ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~==~::~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~$~~=~~~ ~ ==..........._ :;::~ .. := ' ~~>-=\t¥=t?2§ -~- ~= #%#@§;§8P%f€25j§ 2 ¥ &¥&?-=~ · surviving on campus. The In 1968, \\ book ealled \The ln~!der's Gu~de t~ Co~leges:' was Union ha~ been able to operate Revolution took its toll at Union published. The short display of Umon contame~ therem. was not on a budget sur:plus these last few ftaternities, but some remain, and by JONATHAN M.SCHEER Union College. has traditionally been one of the. schools people go to when they apply to the Ivy's- and don't get in. Nestled in the outskirts of Schenectady, the 100- acre campus is quickly being encased by physical expansion. A mammoth Science Center was completed five years ago, a major library addition was finished last year, and a 3,000-seat ice hockey and curling rink will be ready for· use in the fa.u of l975. The campus, which includes 20 .ac-:es, of gardens and woodland, provides an adequate but not exceptional locale for those w~o are inclined to take long strolls tn the uninhabited wilds. For those more urban-oriented, the tri-city area (Albany, Troy, Schenectady) provides a sufficient milieu for shopping, dining, etc. Montreal, Boston, and New York are aU about four hours away and can be reached by car or bus. . Much has been said recently concerning the continuance of this Iibera:! arts college in the midst of a growing pre- professional attitude among undergraduates. The College administration maintains that Union is adapting to the changing interests of students in this area and claims that a diversified liberal arts curriculum can thrive in an atmosphere of pre- professionalism. It seems, however, that fewer studelits now are interested in taking advantage of the wide scope of educational opportunities that are available at Union. Many are willing to take only those· courses needed or recommended for law or medical school. The campus is moving towards a ·'Period in which intellectual diversity and creativity are supplanted by weekend study sessions. · for organic chemistry and political science courses which appear to re-enact the Paper Chase. On the social front, Union is ·~ still grappling with problems resulting from the aecision to go co-ed five years ago. The male- female ratio is now about 2\12-1 but the Admissions Office hopes to even the count in the future. For the present, many Union men take the half-hour trek north to Saratoga and Skidmore. Besides women, most of the decent bars in the area are t<f be found there, and in the spring the track offers students an alternative outlet for spending their. money. Hard drugs are quickly being replaced by a renewed enthusiasm for alcohol. Most of the fourteen fraternities are tapped in, and they provide · much of the social activity for the campus in the way of parties, dances, etc. Grass is still popular and easy to get. The sense of an active, shared community among students that was evident in the radical years has of late disappeared. Union was one of the first campuses to burn Nixon in effigy in response to the Cambodian bombings in 1969~ it has since been lulled i{Ito a state of passivity, A major attempt is ~o~ be~ng made by both the admtntstratlon (headed by new President Thomas Bonner) and students to alter this situation. In an effort to get people out of their dorms and the library and into the street~, the current Dea~ of St~dent IS waging a campat~n agamst th~ \lackadasical Umon stude~t, while proposals are now bemg brought before the All-Colle_ge Senate to make con:mumty service a mandatory reqUirement TYPING Reasonable Rates Fat Senke' 393-2.233 flattering or ~;wen relevant, The Y1de Presshwhtch p~bllshed the years while other small colleges they are the- most constant Insider's Guide, is hoping to publish an updated versaon soon. In have had to cash in. . source of entertainment on the hopes of obtaining a student's view of the College, a request for a The social situati{)n is bound to campus. The Social Committee, Wrl 'te-· up was sen· t to Concordy. The folio. wing responses .have been · · · 'd 'ng· the th·e Cof'&'eehouse, and, the newly- h R ht be interestmg cons1. en . 1 ' mailed back to the Yale Press, and may God defendt e · •g · · congl(,lmeration of .science ~nd form~d Cabaret ·are all in for graduation. Academically, the College maintains tough standards and a long, proud tradition extending from its founding ~ays in 1795. Independent study and term abroad programs are encouraged, while the College's unique and successful mixture of Engineering and Liberal Arts lends a diversifying force to the community. The wide ranging interests and abilities of the faculty is one of Union's major strengths. Union's record for getting people into graduate a~d professional schools ts outstanding. With the recent appointments of two renowned. coaches (Ned Harkness in hockey, and Tom Cahill in football) Union is beginning to place more emphas~s on sports. The basketball te~m ts consistently one of the best m the state in the small college division, as are the lacrosse, soccer, and track teams. The intramural program is showing increasing vigor; it now attracts more than 60 percent of the student body. Anyone can get involved in sports. A·major gripe of UColl students is that there is not enough diversity at the ~ollege. 70 percent ~f all students come from New York, and a large chunk of them from Long Island. The Admissions Office is in the process of attempting .to broaden the geographic scope of applicants and out-of-state admissions appear to be on the rise. Culturally, there has beeh a push to diversify from within the bounds of th.e College. Recognizing that the Sc~enecta?y area is not overflowmg wtth cultural activity, students have initiated various programs to supplement the \Mountebanks a respected theatre group which stages five productions a year, and an active social committee which sponsors concerts, film workshops, etc. · Union is, in many respects, a mixture of old and new. The campus itself is architecturally pleasing, but the predominance of grey stucco encourages one to wish that winter in Schenectady lasted only one month instead. of five. Kilgus Continued from Page 3 effect that the new squatter's rights provision win· hav: . on students. The new provtsion, namely that freshmen will have freshmen .roommates, will alter the lottery procedure slightly. As Ms. Kilgus stipulated, \students will be strongly encouraged to enter into the lottery with one other person .jf they want a double and with one or three others if they prefer a suite:\. T~is alteration is designed to mm1m1~e the chances of having one spot m a room unfilled, so that it will .be easier to provide freshmen w1th freshmen roommates. . Ms. Kilgus added t~at ~he is open to any constructive 1mput from students regarding next year's housing. ·L8VI;.s by PETER SOBQ.L liberal arts. Truly, one ~an fmd competent hands, 'but are not yet any population ont:: wis~es . to alternatives to the Rathskeller Union College may be unique imagine on this campus. Hippies, since they do business onty twice in many ways. For one, the nea~ly jocks, prepp:ies,. drunks, a week at most. equal mix of Liberal ~rts Wlt.h cutthroats, druggtes, hberals, veg- Another minus for Union Engineering and the Sciences 18 heads, racists, politicians~ and an.Y which is now clearing up is the an interesting situation, and. can carnbinations thereof. And all th1s pre-pmfessional a~tituc,ie. Un.til be good or bad depen~ing 0 ~ from a largely Je-.yish student just recently, Unum made tts what one .plans to do With one 8 population. The College went. co- money off its successful pre-:pro life. It could be distracting if one ed in 1970 but there are factions. progntm. Some of my best friends was positive about being a~ on the campus who stili do not are pre-professionals, but a engineer, and it could b~ helpf~l tf believe the cha 11 ge has been made. . population full of .. th.em, ·of one did not have the famtest tdea The ratio is ever approaching 1:1, necessity, since the busmes~ of of what there was in d1e World. but as it is, many upper dassmen going to med or law school IS so Union has always had great still head North to Saratoga and tough, will not be enticed out of success with its graduates, and Skidmore to have a really good the library for much of its four that successful record goes back time.. This situation might be year stay at Union. The to 1795 when the College was alleviated if there was any place Humanities faculty is now good founded, and includes Chester A. on this architectural gem of a enough to attract humanity-' Arthur, almost unknQwn campus for people to me~t one minded people here to begirfwith, President of the USA Its 180 another. As it is, there 1s the and· the College is also allowing years are evident on the c~mpu~; Rathskeller which is fine for people in who have no idea at all in the architecture, whtch 18 some peopie, but others. fin? it, what they want to study, so mostly grey a:nd white and' difficult to pull any openmg hnes people seem more available for therefore somewhat grim in the down there. Tlte student.Trustees non-academic pastimes. As winter, and which the school is at are in the process of trying to evidence, there is a greater great pajns and needless expense raise money to finance a participation in intramural sports to retain, and in the plan of the pub/restaurant in the b~sement of this spring than there ever has campus, which alots 20 acres to one of the campus great:r been from both men and women. the pastoral Jackson's Ga~de~s remodeling disasters, Catneg1e Varsity sports are very (for the time being) and whtch IS HaU, which was designat:d the successful at Union. The centered around the only Student Center and to this day basketball team has been one of symmetrical sixteen-sided· remains the quietest place ~n th.e the best small-college fives in the building in th,e weste.rn campus. In ail attempt to hven 1t state for the past few years, and hemisphere, the Nott Memor~al, up, the school move? all the the soccer, lacrosse, and· tra<:k which has been called everything student mailboxes mto the teams also turn in championship from a hideous round building to building to force students i~ once performances. As for football: out the Nipple, and for which a in a while. But without their beer new President, Dr. Tom Bonner suitable purpose is yet to be and mtJsic, most UColl students (formerly of U. of New found. The College has also do not stay long in one place. Hampshire) has hired Tom managed to maintain. the - T~- places thatUnion studen!s Cahill late of West. Point, to thriftiness, or some of. It, of can get plenty of beer and mus1c coach' the Union football squa-2 Eliphalet Nott, for whom the are the fourteen fraternities still There is hope that recruiting will Nott Memorial was constructed: not take place, but it is sad but mellon sliee Continued from Page 1 School and Albany Medical College in Union University. Administrative internships, permitting faculty members t_o learn techniques of academtc administration, with special internships for women faculty members who are now in demand for administrative posts. Conversely, a program to permit qualified administrators to return to teaching on at least a part-time basis. Additional support for individual self-improvement, including research grants, expanded sabbatical leave programs, and more money for travel to professional meetings. Noting that the problem of faculty immobility affects the institution as well as the individual, the program also provides for grants to permit faculty to explore new teachin.g methods and to improve theu skills as advisors to· students. \The weak employment situation in the academic world combines with the high proportion of faculty on tenur~ .to reduce interinstitutional mobility of faculty,\ the proposal s~id. Faculty. members who fmd themselves on a career plateau can no longer expect to break the pattern simply by...- moving to another college. The danger for· education is that career frustrations \may affect their teaching and a regressive ~n~ vicious teaching cycle may begin. This danger is perhaps most acute, the pFoposal suggests,at the small liberal arts college,. where the faculty member's heavy teaching responsibilities make tt difficult for him to ,develop the· sus~ined, independe~t research interests available to the senior faculty member at a research- oriented university. The college teacher may also be . lt:ss competitive in the job ~arket than his research-mmded · colleague from the university faculty. At. the same time. the competition for tenured P<?sitions has increased emphasis on scholarship and research even at smaller institutions. \In the long run \ the proposal observes \scholarly ove.rspecializ~tion in the liberal arts college may prove to be institutionally counter- productive. . Union expanded its e11rollment and its faculty at a rapid rate during the period from 1964 to 1974, boosting its enrollment by nearly a third _ after 1970. younger faculty members brought to the college d~uing that period have be.en subjected to rigQrous evaluatiOn ( onl:y ~ne out of three survives the stx-year probationary period). The demands of establishing themselve/) as both teachers and scholars peiJ!lit these youn~er faculty menibers little oppo~tumty to examine their career choices or alternatives. 011ce established in the career, many may wish they · had preserved their options. .. After concentrating his energies on staying at Union during the probationary peri~d, he may find himself feel~ng trapped at Union\ - a feehng that may extend beyond t~e institution to the academic specialty he has. chosen, or even to the career choice itself. s Provost Williard F. Enteman said that the new grant, ••provide Union with an <;>pportunity to make a major contdbuti?n.\ true that if a college wants to become well known, a successful football team is die way there. Also, the College is in the process of erecting a round Ice Rink. Ned Harkness, former coach of the Detroit Red Wings has been hired to coach the hockey team. These kinds of expenditures at a college with a student center in which one .... , could die and not be found for three days do wonders for one's credulity. . Any description of the Umon campus situation may be short- lived at this time due to President Bonner's reorganization moves, which have already caused the resignation of the Dean of Faculty and 'the abolition· of the position of Assistant Dean of the College. What lies ahead in administrative complications can only be guessed at. . The one insurmountable problem with Union College is the Schenectady weather, but whe goes to college for the weather? ·~~D. ~:tltl'~· c:~ -:; . '11 P'aeritl~ 12l ALTAMONT AVE. _ NO DELIVERY CHARGE: _WITH 2 8-CUT PIZZAS : WE DELIVER . - UNTIL MIDNIGHT~ .374.5ftl: ORDER 5 PIZZAS ; GET ONJ; FREE .. Texas Instruments & :Hewlett Packard Calc~l•tors SR-50 - $ 89.00 SR-51 - $149.00 HP-21 - $125.00 HP-45- $230.00 Call: DAVE PROULX 346-9973 ). tha g() -cOl ace is· pre the co re1 SUI fe w c;:o so wl WI ac ne <n Ul pi cc fc 0 A cl se Ct p tl :b a n n p a a

The Jnion ,, and tstant 1 the tittee, ewly- l in lt yet keller twice Inion s the Until e its e-:pro iends t a , •of ~s of is so ut of four The good Lnity-' with, •wing at all ·, so ! for As eater ports has :nen. very- The 1e of l the and track :iship :out •nner New Tom :, to [Ua-.2 ; will 1 but :s to ssful here. Jcess Ned the 1ired 'hese liege 1 one', I for Jne's nion lOrt- dent >ves, the of 'the fthe in can able ;e is whe ter? - ... ' d CONCORD/ENSJS. Wednesday, Aprill6, 1975 . . ' ~ ' A/I You Always WOnted . to Know About Goveina1Ce M~jor Faults of the Pre!!ent Structure There were three major areas that Were seen to be lacking in the governance system: -communication, initiative, and accountability. The present committee system is the area in which most of these problems have arisen. At present there are i.Tlany committees, compnsmg many members; responsibility · is cliffus~d over such a wide area as to make the federal bureaucracy in Washington seem simple in comparison. The present system is so complicated that it is unclear who should take the initiative, who i.s responsible for accomplishing the things that are necessary for the efficient l)peration ·of this school. Second, the present committees on the whole do not deal with policy planning for the 'school, but, quoting from the report, ''engage in routing and . unproductive work on ill-defined · problems and tasks.\ Third, the committel: structure does not follow the functional breakdown of the administrators. Administrators do not have a.ny clear group from which they can seek direction and with which to consult on problems that are pertinent to them. Thus, persons thought by the administration to :be knowledgeable and competent are consulted, and others are neglected. · Due to these factors members of most committees do not actuate policy planning and gain a feeling of neglect, impotence, frustration, and apathy. The problem of accountability of administrators is also lacking under the present system. There is no body made up of members .of the College community which acts to-review the actions taken or not taken by administrators on a routine and regular basis. New Governance System Seeks Solutions The new governance system attempts to meet these problems, The first revision is that committees are to be made small, have clearly-defined paths, have only o.ne administrator each (no administrator on more than that one committee), and will act as policy-planning bodies of the College. Thus, committees will not deal with ••busy work,\ they will be policy and not procedure- oriented. They will allow real policy input by all sectors of the community into the planning of where this school should go. The problem of accountability of administrators, from the President of the College to the Bookstore Manager, will be taken care of by the committee that they are members of. Once a year 1 though -possibly more frequently, the committee will write an evaluation of th11.t administrator's performance. Though the committee will concern itself mainly with policy planning and directives, it has a \check\ on the administrator who is to institute the committee's directives through the evaluation process. The committees will also be held accountable to the lar~er ~now ledge .of where problems are to be met will enable the larger community to know who are doing their jobs and who are not. The campus may take the proper remedial action through the electoral process or through public pressure to correct any ills or to reinstate those doing an excellent jo~_. Election of Members The governance report is made in coordina,tion with the restructuring of the student government. Th;e student government is not directly affected by this governance report but will act as the body that will appoint the student members to the committees as well as set the standards by whi~h students will run for election to the All-College Senate. · The All-College Senate is the highest body of the structure; all committees are held accountable. It will vote on major actions that that their members be elected. Analysis The -new governance structure on the whole is excellent- Its major improvement is the entire change it gives to the meaning of committees. They will be plamiing bodies w.ith clearly designated problem areas. They have a single administrator, assigned to only one committee, whose functional duties ate in line with tht committees' tasks and to Which he is accountable for his actions. Furthermore, this report has hacked away a large amount of the bureaucracy that caused so many misunderstandings and lack of action. The increased membership that the students will have on the All- Campus Senate will be an important improvement in alleviating the feeling of impotence that many students have. The inclusion of the staff· in fairly 'frequent changes that student represent~tion 'on these committees will undefgo. The need will be for students who want to work ·on these committees and not for those who feel forced to, in order to meet certain requirements. There is one area of this report that is inconsistent with the rest of it. The Committee on Faculty (the renamed Salaries, Tenure, and Promotion Committee), consists of six faculty members, the Dean of Faculty, and two students. But in the area of faculty renewal, promotion, and tenure, only the four senior faculty members on the committee plus the Dean of Faculty may make the decision. In the area of faculty salaries, aU six (acuity plus the Dean meet to make this decision.· \The whole committee (or, at its discretion some duly appointed \subcommittee) meets. to consider grievances against faculty, .a.s well as internal faculty conflicts;.;, The fact that students are put on a committee just for .appearances' sake reeks of hypocrisy that casts a shadow over the whole report. If students are not wanted ~n this committee, then rernove them. If they are wanted on the committee, then give them the !lhil ity to act. The framers of this work put together a governance strllcture that will hopefully actualize the ·ideal of making Union Colle,ge into a true community: 1!' goal more . easily .put on a piece of paper than realized. Ganor Speaks by JUDY DEIN Total In a detailed and somewhat Israel as an equally great [()oSS as 5 · em0tional speech, Amos Ganor, Israeli death. COM)11TTEES (Aip'habetical Order) F3culty Students Staff Admin. Athletic Committee 2 2 ~ 0 1 Bookstore Committee 2 3 0 1 Campus Committee· 2 2 2 1 Career Planning Committee 2 2 0 1 Committee ol1 Faculty 6 2 0 1 Committee on Student Life I 3 0 1 Development Committee 3 I 0 1 _Educational Policy Committee 4 3 0 l Financial Aid Committee 2 3 0 l Housing Comri1ittee 0 4 1 · 1 Graduate Studies Committee 4 2 0 1 Librarv Committee 4 3 0 1 Persorinel Committee ·- 2 0 2 I Planning and Priorities Committee 3 2 1 1 Presidential Advisory Board 4 4 0 l Public Relations Committee 2 2 0 1 Securitv Committee 1 3 .1 1 Suppo;t Services Committee 2 3 1 1 TOTALS 44 44 8 _18 EXCEPTIONS: Admissions Standing of Students 18 Academic Departments and lAM Council Comprehensive Education .Board II 4 s 3 0 0 Israel's Deputy Consul General in Parallels were often macle l>y 6 New York, explained Israel's numbers of the audience~ whose 7 numerous attempts · to bring European accents were quite 5 peace to the turbulent Middle noticeable, between the sitll.ation 9 'East. · - 1 Mr. Ganor divided of Israel and ~gypt · · and that of S .his speech into three sections, the Hitler and Czechoslovakia in 5 'causes for the recent breakdown World War ll. Several ,poeople 8 in negotiation, the status of the seemed to fear that Israel will sell 6 Palestinians according to the her soul for a promise to an end 6 Israelis, and the Jewish State's to belligerency and then fiad the 7 attitude and future plans for promise reneged. Mr. Ganor's 8 Jerusalem. reply to those fears was that while 5 Ganor put the blame for . the the Israelis are more than willing 7 breakdown of recent talks on to return much of the OCC:UJ)ied 9 Egypt. He repeatedly stated that territories they are going to assure 5 the Israelis made many themselves militarily secure 6 concessions in negotiating over borders. He also said that risks 7 the Sinai, The only thing· which must be taken to institute a peace ll6 . Israel asked for in return was an agreement in the Middle East, 6.4 (Avg.)l agreement to end the belligerence and Israel really wants peac::e. I 3 on the part of the Egyptians. The Palestinians President Sadat, however, refused Israel's refusal to negotiate with to grant such an agreement. Arafat, head of tne Palestin Ganor characterized the major Liberation Organization is an differences between Egyptian and unnegotiable policy, accoll'dingg Israeli goals as lying in the to Mr Ganor. Since the PLO has difference between a military and claimed that their plans a..re for a politica,l settlement: · Egypt the total end to the ex.istence of a merely wants to create a stable· Jewish state in the area., Mr. military situation, at least Ganor could not see any possible temporarily, in the Middle East, grounds on which the two groups while the Israelis are searching for could talk. committees report on. l he senate certain committees, and setting up will be the· Supreme Court of of a grievance board for the staff appeal for any procedural snag in the Personnel Committee, is an against which a committee may important correction of a defect a lasting and complete political · Israel is, however, willing to settlement. negotiate land agreements with Mr. Ganor repeatedly stated King Hussein from. the Ha&llemite Israel's desire for peace in the Kingdom of Jordan. The King . area. ··we extend the hand of could then use the land to set up a peace and we wait for someone to Palestinian state if he d-oes so take it.\ He felt that while the desire. come. in the earlier governance system. The All-College Senate at There are certain defects in this present consists of twelve faculty governance structure, but they are members, six students, three defects that are inherent in any administrators (plus the option of college governance structure. The a fourth administrator, the faculty and the administrators Provost, to break a tie). The new will have continuity and structure decreases the number of knowledge from years on the administrators by one member, same committee that will put Israelis could win a war with the Israel's basic policy then, with Arab countries, too many lives regard to the Palestinian si1Uation would and already have be~n lost. is that the land on the west bank \We have paid enough already for of the Jordan River taken in 1967 peace,\ He also said repeatedly was taken from King Hussein, if that Arab l9ss of life is treated in it is returned will be rest<>red to · him. and increases student membership students at a great disadvantage.· .,.!P\t:JI'~~~~\'-!~~~.o<J from six to ten members. , It will be up to these two groups FOR LIQUOR' The composition of these to realize· their position in order· AND WINE committees in the number of that they do · not dominate the faculty, students, and staff that students. Try should be on them, has been The whole structure depends on determined by the governance the people who make it up. If the . f_.J ~e· report on the basis of the relative people on these committees do ;J(.I(I importance each committee holOs not meet their responsibilities, L· 1 ·p· 5 . -'e,·n's for that group. Committees, on make thoughtful reports and I 1 the whole, are appointed by the evaluations, the structure will Senate. There are five committees again grow stale and be neglected that are deemed of such major by the administrators. This is importance by the ad hoc especially true in reference to 464 State Street FR4·18111 ·Newest ·Lunch 715 ALB.olY ST .. ne. oldest lontll ·ID tiH area. Man tbul 5I :rears we ~ene Find· Prize hGt dop - the OB'f&luJ r.._ •ace· Allo dllfemd lpdll dllaia ever,.Sy. We an apea 7 UJI .a we.. _- 1fl!llletlcl til 4. Vlllt Newell ~.tad. Good ~::~~~~~~~~~~'i!::ico~mi:m~i~tt:ee~t~h~at::l·t;i~s fir:=:r:e:p:re:s:en:.:ta:ti:o:n:,:d:u:e:t:o:t:h:e~~====~~.--=::::::::=:~ IIIMetoEat. DID YOU KNOW? 1 LUIGI'S .ESTAURANT SP£CIAUZIG N ltalioo .. American Fooil ·1125 BARRETT ST. soeECTADY Dl6-~ .U J'i.llt Ow Cocktl.ll IJtJr ' . - A YEAR or a SEMESHR abroad ma'{ be cheaper than a YEAR or SEMESTER in the Sta1:es. Why not live, study and learn in EUROPE? ACADEMIC YEAR ABROAD 22 I EE1-;t 50th St rret. N'r! 10022

,. •' '. , .. '! ··. Page6 arts Movie~: by JACK PITNEY Warren Beatty is messing around with Jack Warden's wife, Lee Gmnt. Warden is messing around with Julie Christie; she in turn is messing · around with Warren Beatty. When Goldie ·Hawn is not messing around With Tony Bill, she, too, is messing around with Warren Beatty. With all this messing around, Shampoo could have been a sophisticated bedroom comedy; instead, it's just a mess. Star-Producer-Co-scenarist .(with Robert Towne) Beatty is not content to aim for laughs. As he has said in numerous. interviews, he wants to explore the lies on which Americans build their sexual and political Jives. Unfortunately, he doesn't bother with subtlety. The entire story is set on election day 1968: in the midst of Beatty's priapic adventures, Nixon and Agnew pop on the TV screen to talk about Morality, Justice, and Truth. Heavy stuff, man. True, Beatty does manage to attack one cliche by making his character a hairdresser. But the film's maip. themes are strictly old New Hollywood. The affluent lead shallow lives. Southern California is a plastic hell. Sex is being divorced from love. The Graduate said it all first - and better. The most Shampoo enthusiastic elicited from curious thing about is\ the wildly reception it has most of the major , .. CONCORDIENSIS, Wednesday, Apt:i/16, 1975 dOesn't waSh ... critics, particularly With regard to the acting. The cast is adequate, but not outstanding. Warren Beatty plays the hairdresser the same way he_ plays all his roles: cool and curt. Jack Warden is wasted as a fatcat Rep1:1blican fundraiser who tries to relate to the Now Generation; the part reeks of a bad 1960's TV -movie. Of the wornen in the cast, only Lee Grant has a few good moments as an insatiable Beverly Hills housewife. Director Hal Ashby's uninspired pacing doesn't help any. First come a few frantic -moments -of lovemaking, then a long stretch of Relevant Dialogue, then a few wisecracks, then it's back to the sack. The cycle continues until the last few minutes, when Beatty steps totally out of character and proposes to one of his paramours. The ultra- serious finale is out of sync with the frivolity that precedes it. No matter what it tries· to be - comedy, romantic drama, or social commentary - Shampoo just doesn't wash. but tastes good! by R.B. THAU and ARNIE HILLER Shampoo opened last week at the Mohawk Mall to an invitation-only audience, which for the most part failed to grasp the humor and basic fabric ·ofthis extremely funny mo¥ie. That the audience was unable to understand tlie humor of this film is more a comment on the Schenectady metropolis than on the significance of the movie. Warren Beatty stars as George, the Don Juan hairdresser. Beatty conceived the screenplay with Robert Towney (an Oscar winner for Cltinatown) that is simple but substantial in content Hal Ashby shows tremendous directorial acumen by utilizing a diverse but very talented cast to produce a comedy that is both entertaining and ~idactic. On the surface, Shampoo is a sophist:icated soap opera dealing with George's relationships with three women: his sometime-actress girlfriend Jill, played intelligently by Goldie Hawn; a customer of the salon in which he works, Felicia (Lee Grant), who is coincidentally the wife of the man George is hoping to borrow money from so he can open his own place; and Jackie (Julie Christie) who is a past love Last Friday's appearance of Donald Byrd and the Blackbirds at:tracted many enthusiastic.fans. photo by Rudy Lu Records~· S.olo Moodi·es s:hine; . . · of George's and is now engaged in an affair with Felicia's husband Clopton's Style Suffers (Jack Warden). The interaction of by DAVID MOSKOWITZ Beatty with these three beautiful When the members of the women is always humorous as he Moody Blues decided to go their vainly tries to keep each from separate ways last year, it was as knowing of his involvement with if the Sistine Chaeel wails had the others. crumbled - the very foundations Had the movie been limited to of popular music had been this level alone, it would have removed. It was believed that no been a comedic success. But solo ·album produced by the Beatty, Towne, and Ashby have group's members could equal the strived for more, and , in the excellence of the Moodies, neither more advanced stage of the was it felt that the unique movie, commentary and satire are Mood ies sound could be simultaneously utilized to make duplicated. Shampoo a very significant film. All of this has been dispelled The second level of Shampoo with the appearance of the first involves Beatty's search for a solo album, released by ex- definition and meaning to his life. Moodies. With Blue Jays, Justin It is allegorized through the Maynard and John Lodge have personalities of the protagonist teamed up to create a record that and his interrelations with Misses is as good, if not better, than any Christie, Grant, and Hawn. produced by the Moodies. His relations The cover for the album is an with Miss Grant represent obvious metaphor - depicting attempts at coping with the aging two men standing at a gateway: in process, a process that the back of them are misty, protagonist fears without crumbling towers; in front, the understanding. Most importantly, sunny hills af \Shangri La.\ the relationship with Miss Hawn In actuality, though, Hayward shows the emptiness of a man and Lodge do not leave behind who cannot be honest to himself the standards of the Moodies. or those with whom he is close. Their solo album shows us that He is finally confronted with this the pair in fact were the heart of deficiency only after he has lost the Moodies. his lovers to other men. Not One Stinker A character is left whose hold The cuts on Blue Jays are dl on reality is so tenuous and superb. If I were to pick my 'fragile that it is snapped i~ Olle favorites, \Saved by the Music\ evening. · · would head the list. The song Politics finds its way into the features a fashpaced melody, film's message with a scene perhaps Lodge's best, and some portraying the Nixon triumph in searing guitar by Hayward. . 1968. On its lowest level, the use ''Remember My Friend\ of political participants conveys highlights the excellence of the theme that the bulk·of today's Lodge's bass work. The song \elite\ society is so shallow as to segues into a hypnotic chorus; find itself susceptible to the reminiscent of many of the deception and guile nearly Moodies' classics. \Who Are You perfected by the Nixon-Agnew Now\ is a romantic plea with team. Thus we see both George some forceful, emotional violin by and the Nixon supporters at a \Jim Cockey. loss for direction and, \Maybe\ has a baroque - consequently, at the mercy of sounding melody and lyrics their passions, sex, and Nixonian reflecting on the feelings involved status quo, respectively. in a o'ne~sided relationship. . It becomes . obvious that Excellent cello by Tim Tompkins Sha~poo is a film of greater demonstr'fttes hoW little Hayward importance than simple service as and Lodge miss their former comedic r-elief. It is a satiric. cohorts Edge, Pinder. and commentary on the social ~lite Thomas. That moves one to and its components which set the question how vital to the standards that represent the Moodies' sound they were to American status quo. begin with. · Perhaps tile on1y two weaknesses that possibly can be found with Blue Jays are an over~ grandiose, almost obnoxious finale to the \Days .of Future Passed\ sound-alike entitled \Nights Winters, Years\ and,a false sense of having \conquered new horizons.\ Bayward and Lodge have not accomplished anything strikingly new (for the Moodies) with this album, but have rather· solidified their musical basis and established themselves as a separate entity. Blue jays is an exciting Work filled with - addicting, beautiful melodies. The process of changing one's ideas for the pair will be a slow one, for as they ·say, ~·as we speed a little further through the stars to this :!lew wodd of ours ... you will find you're not where you left yourself.\ * * * * * As fast as he ascended the ladder of musical success, Eric Clapton has come tumbling down. Last year's 461 Ocean Boulevard presented a new Eric Clapton, far more retrospective than in the past, but with a better eye for melody and new vocal style. 46l's successor, Then~'s One in Every Crowd-, is a schizophrenic disappointmeQt, presenting some of the worst arrangements he. has ever come up with along with a smattering of the Clapton of old. Startil)g with the bad, we have a version of the traditional Gospel favorite \Swing Low Sweet ·Chariot\ ~ done reggae style. The song has a terrible arrangement and some nauseating vocals by Clapton. His new vocal style has appar-ently reached its limits. One bright spot is Yvonne Billitnan's vocal ·accompaniment, providing refreshing relief from Clapton's nasal slur. \Little Rachel\ and \The Sky is Crying'' foster the impression that Clap ton thinks he ·is ·a white Bob Marley - Neither track is worthy of even a cursory listening. The album's lo~est point comes with \Don't Blame Me,'' the obligatory sequel to last year's top•forty favorite \I Shot the Sh_griff.'' Thevocal on the song is Continued on Page 7 ,, -

Page6 CONCORDIENS/S, Wednesdav, Apri/16, 1975 arts ' . '- .. : '~.::; . '~. ~: ·. ' ... ' '' : . ' '_·: ·.. ' ~-. ,'... '., .. ' ' ,: ' . ' . ~- ' ' ' ': . . '~· . - ' ' •, : :. . '. ' . . . .... . ' . . ' : . . .llori('S: by JACK PITNEY Warren Beatty Is messing around with Jack Warden's wife, l.ee Grant. Warden is messing around with Julie Christie; she in turn 1s messing · around with Warren Beatty. When Goldie Hawn is not messing around with I ony Bill, she, too, is messing around with Warren Beatty. With all this messing around, Shampoo could have heen a sophisticated hedroom comedy; instead, it's JUst a mess. Star-Prod ucer-Co-scenarlst (with Rohert I owne) Beatty i~ not content to aim for laughs. As he has said 111 numerous. interview:-. he wanb to explon: the lt\:s (JI1 whu.:h Amencans build their sexual and political lives. llnfurtunately. he doesn't bother with subtlety. !he entire story is set on electwn day I 1)6~; in the m1dst of Beatty's pnap1c adventures, :'\lixon and Agnew pop on the TV screen to talk about Morality, Justice, and Truth. Heavy stuff, man. frue. Beatty does manage to attack one cliche by making his character a hairdresser. But the film's main themes are strictly old :'>lew Hollywood. The aff1uent lead shallow lives. Southern California is a plastic hell. Sex is being diH>rced from love. I'he Graduate said it all first and better. fhe most Shampoo enth usia~ti<.: elicited from curious thing about IS. the \\- ild ly reception it ha~ most of the major s 't w cntics, particularly With regard to the acting. The cast is adequate, hut not outstanding. Warren Beatty plays the hairdresser the same way he plays all his roles: cool and curt. Jack Warden is wasted as a fatcat Republican fundraiser who tries to relate to the '\ow CJeneration; the part reek~ of a had 1960's ·1 V -movie. Of the women in the cast. only l.ee Grant has a few good moments as an in sa tiablt.: Bt:\erly Hills housewife. Director llal Ashby's unimpired pacing doc>r1't help any. f-irst come a few frantic moments ol lovemakmg, then a long stretch of Relevant Dialogue. then a few wisecracks, then it's back to the sack. The cycle continues until the last few minut~:s. when Bt:alty steps totally out of character and proposes to one of his paramours. The ultra- serious finale is out of sync with the frivolity that precedes it. No matter what 11 tnes to be comedy. romantic drama. or social commentary Shampoo JUst doesn't wash. but tastes good! by R.B. THAU and ARNIE HILLER Shampoo opened last wt:ek at the Mohawk Mall to an invitation-only audience, which for the most part failed to grasp the humor and basic fabric of this extremely funny movie. That the a ud ie nee was unable to understand the humor of this film 1s more a comment on the Schenectady metropolis than on the significance of the movie. Warren Beatty stars as George, the Don Juan hairdresser. Beatty conceived the screenplay with Robert Towney (an Oscar winner for Chinatown) that is simple but ~ ubstantial in content. Hal Ashby ~how~ tremendous directorial acumen by utilit.ing a diverse but very talented cast to produce a comedy that is both entertaining and didactic. On the surface, Shampoo is a sophist·icated soap opera dealing with George's relationships with three women: his sometime-actress girlfriefld Jill. played intelligently by Goldie Hawn; a customer of the salon in which he works, Felicia (Lee Grant), who is coincidentally the wife of the man George is hoping to horrow money from so he can open his own place; and Jackie (Julie Christie) who is a past love of (ieorge's and is now engaged in an affair with Felicia's husband (Jack Warden). The interaction of Beatty with these three beautiful women is always humorous as he vainly tries to keep each from knowing of his involvement with the others. Had the movie been limited to this level alone. it would have been a comedic success. But Beatty. Towne, and Ashby have strived for more, and . in the more advanced stage of the movie, commentary and satire are simultaneously utilized to make Shampoo a very significant film. The second level of Shampoo involves Beatty's search for a definition and meaning to his life. It is allegorized through the personalities of the protagonist and his interrelations with Misses Christie, Grant, and Hawn. His relations with Miss Grant represent attempts at coping with the aging process. a process that the protagonist fears without understanding. Most importantly, the relationship with Miss Hawn shows the emptiness of a man who cannot be honest to himself or those with whom he is close. He is finally confronted with this deficiency only after he has lost his lovers to other men. A character is left whose hold on reality is so tenuous and fragile that it is snapped in one evening. Politics finds its way in to the film's message with a scene portraying the Nixon triumph in 1968. On its lowest level, the use of political participants conveys the theme that the bulk·of today's \elite\ society is so shallow as to find itself susceptible to the deception and guile nearly perfected by the Nixon-Agnew team. Thus we see both George and the Nixon supporters at a loss for direction and, consequently. at the mercy of their passions, sex, and Nix.onian status quo, respectively. It becomes obvious that Shampoo is a film of greater importance than simple service as comedic relief. It is a satiric commentary on the social elite and its components which set the standards that represent the American status quo. Last Friday's appearance of Donald Byrd and the Blackhirds attracted man:r enthusiastic(ans. photo hy Rudy Lu Records: Solo Moodies Shine; Clopton's Style Suffers by DAVID MOSKOWITZ When the members of the Moody Blues decided to go their separate ways last year, it was as if the Sistine Chapel walls had crumb led - the very foundations of popular music had been removed. It was believed that no solo album produced by the group's members could equal the excellence of the Moodies, neither was it felt that the unique Mood ies sound could be duplicated. All of this has been dispelled with the appearance of the first solo album. released by ex- Mood ies. With Blue Jays, Jus tin Maynard and John Lodge have teamed up to create a record that is as good, if not better, than any produced by the Moodies. rhe cover for the album is an obvious metaphor depicting two men standing at a gateway: in back of them are misty, crumbling towers; in front, the sunny hills of \Shangri La.\ In actuality, though, Hayward and Lodge do not leave behind the standards of the Moodies. Their solo album shows us that the pair in fact were the heart of the Moodies. Not One Stinker The cuts on Blue Jays are all superb. If I were to pick my favorites. \Saved by the Music\ would head the list. The song features a fast-paced melody, perhaps Lodge's best, and some searing guitar by Hayward. \Remember My Friend\ highlights the excellence of Lodge's bass work. The song segues into a hypnotic chorus, reminiscent of many of the Moodies' classics. \Who Are You Now\ is a romantic plea with some forceful, emotional violin by Jim Cockey. \Maybe\ has a baroque sounding melody and lyrics reflecting on the feelings involved in a one-sided relationship. Excellent cello by Tim Tompkins demonstrates how little Hayward and Lodge miss their former cohorts Edge, Pinder, and Thomas. That moves one to question how vital to the Moodies' sound they were to begin with. Perhaps the only two weaknesses that possibly can be found with Blue Jays are an over- grandiose, almost obnoxious finale to the \Days of Future Passed\ sound-alike entitled \Nights. Winters, Years\ and a false sense of having \conquered new horizons.\ Hayward and Lodge have not accomplished anything strikingly new (for the \1oodies) with this album, but have rather solidified their musical hasis and established themselves as a separate entity. Blue Jays is an exciting work filled with addicting, beautiful melodies. !he process of changing one's ideas for the pair will be a slow one, for as they say, \as we speed a little further through the stars to this new world of ours ... you will find you're not where you left yourself.\ * * * * * As fast as he ascended the ladder of musical success, Eric C'lapton has come tumbling down. Last year's 461 Ocean Boulevard presented a new Eric C'lapton. far more retrospective than in the past, but with a better eye for melody and new vocal style. 46l's successor, There's One in Every Crowd, is a schizophrenic disappointment, presenting some of the worst. arrangements he has ever come up with along with a smattering of the Clapton of old. Starting with the had, we have a version of the traditional Gospel favorite \Swing Low Sweet Chariot\ · ~ done reggae style. The song has a terrible arrangement and some nauseating vocals by Clapton. His new vocal style has apparently reached its limits. One bright spot is Yvonne Billiman's vocal accompaniment, providing refreshing relief from C'lapton's nasal slur. \Little Rachel\ and \The Sky is Crying\ foster the impression that Clapton thinks he is a white Bob Marley - Neither track is worthy of even a cursory listening. The album's lowest point comes with \Don't Blame Me,\ the ohligatory sequel to last year's top-forty favorite \I Shot the Sheriff.\ The vocal on the song is ( 'ontinued on Page 7

CONCORDIEtJ\SlS Wednesday, Aprill6, 1975 Page 7 Off-off Broadway Our lown, Personal aad Realistic by MARSHALL WISOFF \ ... .I'm going to .have a (i:opy of this play put in the cornerstone so people a thtmsand· years from now'll know a few simple facts · about us ... this is the way we were - in our groWing up, and in our marryin,g, and in our living and in our daying.\ - Thornton Wilder, Our Town, AGt I. History books tell us tbat Lindbergh flew over the Atlantic Ocean in 1927, that the pioneers crossed North America during the nineteenth century, that Watson and Crick d·is.covered the structure of DNA. Yet history fails to reveal what Thornton Wilder deals with in Our Town. Wilder recreates these moments in our lives which f),re .so vivid and personal;> yet are so universal. For a moment, indulge yourself in these thoughts: what was it like to try to talk to ; your fitst childhood sweathear(? There the two of you stood, each wanting to say \1 like you\ but neither knowing how to go about saying it. Could one of your parents make you fed guilty with that little frown, or feel wanted with a little gift? Are you cynical of women who cry at weddings? Continued from, Page 6 stnimed and the lukewarm reggae doesn't fail to bore. None of these cuts display what Clapton is most famous for, his unique, pyrotechnic guitar. Their most unifying factor is the terrible choice of arrangement seen in each. Remember your feelings about losing your virginity? How do you feel when you return to your home town and find that half your friends are manied, ri10st of the other half ar.e get_!ing married; and some of the old people have d.ied? If you stop.· and think of these moments you wi:ll begin to understand what is happening in Our Town and what- make~> it a profoundly beautiful and mo'vrng piece. Though these mernents are intensely personal they are expet:ienced by all people. The difficulty is performing this play is that these moments are highly personal to Wildets characters, also. Previous high school and college ptoductians of Ot,tr Town have all too ofteJl come across as stereotyped and pushed; the tears are not· real, the authenticity is lost. The play can become a comical farce of itself. :But the people in Our Town are not stereotyped and the town is. not at all unreal - no more so than your home town or even Yonkers, New Y ark (that's my horne town). Our Town will be produced by the Mountebanks of Union College May 2-4 and 7-10, at .8:00 · pm each night in the ~ott Memorial Theater. The fmal Moodies Clapt()n brieffy slips into what nis · fans have been starving for - a touch of his old guitar excellence. · Clapton's back-up band -O:n There's One in E:very Crowd 1s much improved since 461: Carl Radle's bass is consistently good, and the band makes its presence known, particularly on. \We've Been To1d.\ Still, in creating such conflicting examples of his new rts Karen Manno(/.) as-Mrs. Webb and Cathy Ianelli as Mrs. Gibbs rehearse for Our Town. photo by Cindy Wolfson performance will be a· Saturday matinee at 2:110 pm. In addition to the performances listed above, a special matinee and performance will he presented f9r area high school students .on Wednesday the 7th. Admission is free to all Union College students. The Box Office will open M~nday, April 21 (hours will he 1-5 pm, except weekends). • · The people in Our Town inClude George Gibbs: portrayed by Peter Craig, and Emily Webb, played by Margot Oliver. The:y share the joys and sorrows of gro,wing up in smaH-town America at the tum of the centUry. William Katz is Doc Gibbs and Cathy lanelli is Mrs. Gibbs, the wise country physician and his wife, who thinks he works· too hard. Michael Elmes plays the part of Mr. Webb, editor of the town neW!ipaper and Karen Mann performs as Mrs. Webb.,Lee Bloomrosen is the Stage Manl).ger, whose narration gives us. a perspective on time and place. Our Town is directed by Professor Barry .Smith; sets were designed by Professor Charles Steckler. The ·Mountebannks of Union College cordiaUy invite you to our production of Our Town.!l>a play in three acts by Thornton Wilder. Come Meet Me at The: Concord Bridge \This Friday, April 18, 1975 the People's Bicentennial Commission will recreate that -midnight ride, as well as the \shots heard round the world.\ Thousands will assemble at Concord Bridge in the early morning hours just as the ~ On April 30th, at 4:30 p.m., there will be an opening party for the first Union College Painting and Photography exhibition. of student work. The exhibition, which will be on view 1hrough May lith, will contain photographs and paintings by Union College , students, as well as tile first showing of the Union Portfolio. THE. IDOL is pleased to announce · the winners of its P o e try a n d Fi .cf i o n Competitions. For Fiction: First Prize - . Mark Wallace. Second Prize - Sharon Gtollman. Minutement did 200 years ago. From the bridge musical and theatrical entertainment, old fashioned oratory, hot soup and- bread kitchens, and other events will go on. The all-night festivities will culminate at an ll a.m. ceremony including readings from the speeches of Tom Paine, Sam Adams and John Hancock. By all estimations the llrowd at the Bridge will be enormous. The Union College Car Caravan will leave from in front of the Skeller at 4 p.m. Friday. Nobody will get much sleep that night; and until the sun rises, it's sure to be cold. Sunshine patriots had better stay home and read about it the next day in the paper. But winter soldiers are invited to join in the \biggest boogie Uncle Sam ever had.\ For further info and rides call Curt:· 37'1-7541. The album's saving points lie on side two. Here some of the old Clapton emerges, as on .. Pretty Eyes,\ which\ features a simple melody .and much better vocals; the chorus is lyrically simple but -beautiful, ve\ry reminiscent of Clapton·s Derek and the Dominoes days. O_n _ ''High,'~ - style, Clapton has jeopard~ed its credibility. In laying ·back so far. he wastes a great deal of potential. Worse yet, he risks ruining a style with which he succeeded only a year a[o. .----rA~tt-e~nt-i-on-. -A-.-~~----,- For Poetry: First Prize - Jayne Weiner. Second Prize- Samuel Hughes. The Union College Women's Glee Club, under the direction of Robert A. Christensen, and the R.P.l. Men's Glee Club, under the direction of Dr. Roger Hannahs, will present a concert in Memorial Chapel on Wednesday. April 23, at 8:00 p.m. The clubs will combine to perform \The Magnificat\ by Giovanni Pergolesi; each club will also perform several works individually. On Friday, April 25, the same concert will be given at the R. P .I. Chapel and Cultural Center, Burdett Avenue, Troy. BONN b.R I 0 SPI:.AK. A I H ILLt'.L UlNNER ON PARENTS WEEKEND The next Hillel Sabbath dinner will be held on Friday May 9. at 6:30 P.M. in Ha.Je House. The guest speaker for the · evening will be Union College President, Dr. Thomas Bonner . .The dinner is open to Hillel members AND their patents, families and other guests. Reservations Will be taken in a few weeks. but now is the time to tell your parents so they can make their plans to be wi'h us on Friday evening. The dinner that was held this past Friday was attended by over 30 people. and enjoyed by all. Professor Scaife -of the Chemistrv Department spoke on 'Theology and Science', and provided· us with some very 1 interes'ting material for thought and discpssion .. Hillel will ha.Jc:l two more Ginners this term, Chess Players Announcing the First Annual All-College Chess Tournament, an. o.pen tournament fer all interested students, faculty,. adminis- tration and staff. The tourney is sch.eduled to start on April 29; finals will be during the week of May 20. For more information keep your eyes · peeled for posters and check . next week's edition of CONCORDIENSiS. We received a -large number of submissions, and would like to thank everyone for such a great respc;mse. The winning material, a11d a few other particularly good pieces will be published in the issue which will be out some time in June. Any material submitted for the competitions will be in the English office on the second -Ooor of Humanities, fur those who wish to claim theirs. This will be the first time that the Women's Glee Club will combine with male voices. Future plans include a concert for P-arents• Weekend and a Spring · Concert. ~~hat's Gm:ng 0~--~1 ~\l~ . . COFFEEHO-USES_ . -·· . . · by SPINEY NORMAN. FILMS :;:;; lllll April 17: \Arkan~as Sheiks\ Country, 8:30 pm, ·April 18-19: \Ravens End\ International Cinema \~\\[ :!\@ LiVely Lucy's Coffeehouse, Skidmor~ .. 584-5000. April 18:-19:_ \String'' 7:30 and 9 pm. Arena Series. 8 pm. Recital Hall. PAC. SUNY A. m~ :~m April 17-19: \Easy Ste~m\ jaz7. and folic, 8:30 Theatre. PAC. SUNY A. 457-R360. April 18: \Mondo Cane\ 8 pm. SS016. Union. m 'l[@ pm. Mother's Wine Emporium, RPl, Troy. Aprill8•l0: \Home'to O~rselves\ 7:30 and 9:30 Aprill8-20: \Cabaret\, 10 pm on the 18th. 8 and '''''' :]ll~! April 18: :MiChael Cooney, traditional folk, 8:30 pm. Studio Theatre. Performing Arts Center. 10 pm on the 19th. 8 pm on the 20th, SSOI6, Union. @ ;j]jjj pm. Old Chapel, Union . .Admission 50ti!. · · · .• S.UNYA. 457-8360. ~.'.,.\·,,_;_~.'.,~.:·_\_,:\··.:: !j~j~ April 18-20: \Arkansas Sheiks\ 8:30 prn. Caffe MtJSlC OF SPECIAL iNTEREST -. !l Lena. Saratoga. \' April 17: Lori Zazzaro, piano. Recital Hall. 8:30 April 16-27: David Strom and Leslie. Steineker ... 1m~ April 18-19: Andy Cohen, folk, 9 prri, Eighth pm. PAC, Sunya. Photography. \Two for the Road\ Schaffer ~@ 11 Step Coffeehouse. Albany. d' . 1 f lk 8 30 April 18: Bordin String Quartet, \International Library, llnion Gallery. 2-5 pm daily. closed ~.·,:,,':·,·,,~',~~~.,,~:::,'~·,,, jlj]\: April 19: Michael Cooney, tm 1hona o , : Festival of Chamber Music.\ 8:30 pm. Memorial Monday and Tuesday. April 17: Cabaret Jazz ; :t: pm. Fteeze Dried Coffeeh0use. SUNYA. Chapel. Union. Tiio, 9 and II pm. Carnegie. Union. \jjj\: April 19: Dave Walsh,. blues a~d country, 8:30 April 19:. Albany Symphony Orchestra, Hartwick Every Tuesday from I) pm to J am, Cabaret , .... ~~t :pm. Bethlehem Coffeehouse, OelmarA39-9827. and SUNY A choruses, 8:30 pm. Palace Game Night, Carnegie. \,\,\.1_.\,.\.: \\1 THEATRE Theatre. Albany. This Saturday Afternoon John Busterud, the ..... . jjj@ April 17-20: \Dracula\, 8 pm. Littk Theatre, April 20: Dido and Aeneas, 4 pm, Siena College. fashion plate of collegiate sports. will be modeling l~ :·:·:· Siena College. Loudonville. _ Roger Bacon Hall. the latest style in double knit baseball uniforms. \.{.~\ \\\\\\ April 18: Yass Hakashima, Japanese mimist. 8 April 20: Cecil Payne Quintet, jaz7., 8 pm. \The uniform designed; with the fashion conscious - ····· pm. McNeil Room. Student Union. RP1. Ramada Inn. Schenectady. jock in mind.\ These uniforms not only W \\\\~ . April 18-11): \The Scarecrow\ 8 pm, Russell . April 20: Richard Albagli, percussion. 8:30 pm. compliment. hut actually accentuate the players' bat \~\\\

Page8 CONCORDIENSTS. W~dnesd_ay, Apri/16,· 1975 Speak Out Stereotypes· Shattered A Short Story Ah College ... Thus the Women's Caucus serves as a pleasant social meeting group as well as a center for political action at Union. At present the, Caucus, which is. chaired by Marjorie Kohn, is all female, although the constitution for the group explicitly states that it is open to members of both se~es and in the past a few men have signed up. by MUD SLIDE SLIM She dropped out of college at the age of eighteen. Now there's a nice, neat,. biographical sentence, fits snugly into a niche of any life. Shall it be followed by the description of the eabin on the ocean that she shared with a great group of organic~living, free- thinking people who made bayberry candles every other full moon? It's cool, it's cool, Or maybe something like, \She sought her education without the aid of formal instruction. Her craving for knowledge led her to devour stacks of \intelligent works\ giving her the ability to drop any scholarly name that would make a pseudointellectual grin knowingly to him/ herself.\ Maybe a more elaborate phrasing of the original sentence would be appropriate, \Realizing that her existence had slipped off the old thumpity-thump, thumpity-thump track of college life into a schreeeech (should give you the chills effect) stop stillness, she took it upon herself to leave' college and forge new roads in her life (The Little Engine That Could!).\ . Perhaps a more in-depth study of the, circumstances that caused her to abandon her college career (Okay: here goes, this is what I've been leading up to .... My apologies to Mom, apple pie, and .an unnamed floor in Richmond House.) Her momentous- decision came about late one night as she quietly sat in one of Richmond's well lit, soundproofed, ventilated, wastebasketed typing rooms; a nice, efficient container that surrounded her with the nothingness in which she found it easy to exude thoughts (as opposed to think). She thought about the day that had just ended with fondness and regret as she gazed over her \Normal College Day Checklist\ (one of the many gratuities provided by the bookstore in September). Moving swiftly down the column, she checked off the items in order ... talked about diets, check, putzed for at least two hours, check, complained about putzing- one hour, check, and so on and so forth, etc.,On this night, however, something was amiss; she had an urge to fill in the blank space provided at the bottom of the checklist that allowed for an individual's own, personal, daily habit to be developed by the time the student is secure in winter term. . This last item was commonly referred to as \the quirk.\ Never before had she been able to produce a habit that was decidedly hers for the checklist, she was still testing out the different college identities SPEAK OUT available to her; the giggly, innocent girl, the knowing tolerant woman, the know- everybody, do-everything personality, the silent, wise intellectual, the throat, and the bullshitter. Ah 'Yell, it· was a tough decision that she was still unsure of. But that nigpt she felt a clue easing its way out of her ~ accompanied by her Saga dinner. It finally ma,de its appearance,and she knew wh~;tt she was meant to be ... a cynic .. Ifs too bad that she hadn't been born about six years earlier, then she would have been in vogue~ Yes public, she sat in that typing room and thought about her eight-thirty class and the pan- banging party that had been held across the hall at midnight as she had just been able to submerge herself into the distant cushion of slumber~. \What cute girls\ she thought as she sat in that oh-so- familiar typing room in which she had spent so many hours of the previous day reading writings that appreached her own in their she~r boringness. Oh, she was feeling sorry for herself as she remembered lying in her bed, being mad, thinking of the next day's work, thinking of her fat, thinking of a lover ... ah Richmond! Ah college! She had lay there smiling to herself at the thought of her father paying for this isolated bliss. ·our heroine sat in that typing room, easing into, diving into her newly discovered cynicism. So many supporting examples came to her head; the. tedious, never- ending, yet never long enough days, the seeds of good work hidden within layers .of futile work, the social games, the scholarly martyrdom. Yes, she was getting well into her role; she would be known as 'the cynic' as she tramped her way across this intimate, observant campus. But we must not get too far ahead of ourselved in this little biography, because folks, she did none of these things. She dropped out of college at eighteen but that was to marry a medical student who would become a famous surgeon on the money she provided for his medical school as she was forced by popular demand to write stories for The New Yorker.,Now, we all know that is why she went to Union anyway! Thanks Dad. The End (Dammit ifs 2 A.M. and I have an 8:30) c--J.../~ Past Accompljshments. The Women's Caucus .is separate from the President's Commission on the Status of Women, although at times their Women's Caucus meeting in the . Women's Center on the secondf7oor of Carnegie. - tasks do overlap. The Caucus is mote of a socially oriented group and is interested primarily in student affa·irs, while the Commissions is involved with the s.tatus of all women on campus. In the past the Caucus has instigate~i and worked on the new lighting system propo~al for campus, the status of female health care here and started a women's library. The Caucus also planned the successful Women's Week last year, which was a series of lectures, group session and workshops and was open to the entire campus and community. by JUDY DEIN Contrary to some popular stereotypes, the members of the Women's Caucus are not se:x:ually frustrated, homely women who meet together merely to escape the boredom of \dateless\ evenings. Rather, most of the women who meet every Monday night in their second floor office photo by Greg Cohen in Carnegie joined the Caucus \1 guess, because we were all so active and \successful\ in high school and all of a sudden things are so different here. The men seem to run everything.\ It seems that many women find that they need the support of other members of their sex in a school which is perc~ived . by many to be \male dominated.\ Women find that they are not only forced into a competitive academic atmosphere when tney arrive at Union, but in order to enjoy their social lives here they must also compete with other women and play the role of the \typical female.\ Social functions, much to the objection of many of the women, .often center around the fraternities. Some frats. obviously differentiate between men and women simply by allowing women free entrance to parties while men have to pay. While some men say that the women have 'no right to complain about free entrance, some Women see it as. representative of societies treatment of women and degrading. Future Plans The plans for the Caucus include a woman's newsletter which will be written and edited by women on campus, a booth for Parent's Weekend, .further investigation of health care facilities on campus, and possible encounter sessions. Basically the Caucus will continue to serve as a meeting place where women can feel free to \act themselves\ and gain support from other women, thereby learning that they do not have to play any role to be accepted as an individual. Ideas for additional projects for the Caucus are always welcome, and all members' of the Union community are invited to attend the Monday night (9:00 p.m.) meetings in Carnegie. A-ttention lob Holders I Equal employment opportunity commission decisions have made it illegal:_ I. to dismiss· the woman, but not the man for partaking in an affair #71- 2678 2. to deny a job· because there are no separate toilet facilities for males and females. #YNY -9-04 7 3. to refer to adult wmp.en as \girls\ #72-0679 4. to restrict smoking for women but not for men. #71-109 5. to deny women the right to wear slacks at work #70-920 71-1 6. to deny a job because a woman is an unwed mother Reprint from NY State NOW Upcomi\g. Events Memo From Mary Anne -·Krupsak, Lieutenant Governor of N.Y. State: THIS WEEKEND April 18, 19 and 20. Albany State is sponsoring a Women's Weekend this Friday through Sunday. Speakers, entertainers, and dinners are on the agenda. A rough schedule is as follows: This page is being co-ordinated t by Women's Caucus. Material t can, and hopefully will be, t submitted by anyone regardless vf sex or standpoint. Poetry, short ~ t creative writings, art, opinions ~ t and articles dealing with, written ~ t by, or pertaining to, women are Friday evening: 6 pm-communal dinner; 8:30-Coffeehouse with female entertainment. Saturday: 12 pm-2:00 and 3:00-5:00- Workshops on: Woman and Careers, Women's Self Help Health center (from .Boston), Sports, Sexism in Lahguage, Rape, Fear of Success, and Lesbianism. \The State Equal Rights Amendment has passed the Assembly and is now before the Senate Judiciary Committee. Senator Warren Anderson 9 majority ·leader, and members of that committee shouid know of your interes,t (S2824- Winikow). Judiciary Committee members: Gordon, chair, Caemmerer, Maechi, Calandra, Dunne, Rolison, Marino, Pisani, Mcfarland, Bronston, Lewis, Galiber, Meyerson, Burstein, and Straub.\ Calls to Albany are local on private phones. t more than welcome. Also, please ~ react' to the national and local ·~ t issues that affect peoples' lives, as ~ t well as the male-female situation ~ on campus. Write a letter - state an opinion - even be biased - ~ but please speak out. Material ~ cail be dropped off in the Caucus ~ mailbox (student activities) or in . · our office in 201 Carnegie. Deadline is Monday noon for the upcoming issue. Sunday: 12-5:00 -- Crafts Fair; 9 pm - Dance featuring FRI.ENDS; 12 pm -~ Brunch; 2 pm - Sports. NEXT WEDNESDAY April 23 Finally. a chance to show support -The Union Women's Glee Club is joined by the R Pl Men's Glee Club in concert in our own Memorial Chapel at 8 p.m. The main program will consist of \The Magnificat\ by Giovanni Pergolesi. The concert will be repeated at Troy's Chapel and Cultural Center on Friday April 25, also at 8 pm. COMING SOON Caroline Bird. author of Born Female, Everything a Women Knows to Get Paid What Shes Worth, and The Case Against The College. Also. information on gynecological care in the area and perhaps a proposal for the school. . .. Will the people (person) who borrowed the following materials please return them to the Caucus when they are through: . l. Pamphlet on Abortion 2. MEMOIRS OF AN EX- PROM QUEEN by Alix Kates· Shulman 3. BODY LANGUAGE by Julius .Faust t t

PageS CONCORD!ENSIS. Wednesday, Apri/16, 1975 Speak Out ,· \ ' . '. - . ,. . . . • ' ' ' ' ' ' I ' • • A Short Story Stereotypes Shattered Ah College ... by MUD SLIDE SLIM She dropped out of college at the age of eighteen. Now there's a nice, neat, biographical sentence, fits snugly into a niche of any life. Shall it be followed by the description of the cabin on the ocean that she shared with a great gro1:1p of organic-living, free- thinking people who made bayberry candles every other full moon'! It's cool, it's cool. Or maybe something like, \She sought her education without the aid of formal instruction. Her craving for knowledge led her to devour stacks of \intelligent works\ giving her the ability to drop any scholarly name that would make a pseudointellectual grin knowingly to him; herself.\ Maybe a more elaborate phrasing of the original sentence would be appropriate, \Realizing that her existence had slipped off the old thumpity-thump, thumpity-thump track of college life into a schreeeech (should give you the chills effect) stop stillness, she took it upon herself to leave'\ college and forge new roads in her life (The Little Engine That Could!).\ Perhaps a more in-depth study of the circumstances that caused her to· abandon her college career (Okay: here goes, this is what I've been leading up to .... My apologies to Mom, apple pie, and an unnamed floor in Richmond House.) available to her; the giggly, innocent girl, the knowing tolerant woman, the know- everybody, do-everything personaHty, the silent, wise intellectwal, the throat, and the bwllshitter. Ah weH, it was a tough decision that she was still unsure of. But that night she felt a clue easing its way out of her - accompanied by her Saga dinner. It finally made its appearance,and she knew what she was meant to be ... a cynic. It's too bad that she hadn't been born about six years earlier, then she would have been in vogue. Yes public, she sat in that typing room and thought about her eight-thirty class and the pan- banging party that had been held across the hall at midnight as she had just been able to submerge herself into the distant cushion of slumber.,\What cute girls\ she thought as she sat in that oh-so- familiar typing room in which she had spent so many hours of the previous day reading writings that appreached her own in their sheer boringness. Oh, she was feeling sorry for herself as she remembered lying in her bed, being mad, thinking of the next day's work, thinking of her fat, thin king of a lover. .. a h Richmond! Ah college! She had lay there smiling to herself at the thought of her father paying for this isolated bliss. Women's Caucus me-eting in the. Women's Center on the secundfloor of Carnegie. by JUDY DEIN Contrary to some popular stereotypes, the members of the Women's Caucus are not sexually frustrated, homely women who meet together merely to escape the boredom of \dateless\ eveHings. Rather, most d the women who meet every Monday night in their second floor office photo by Greg Cohen in Carnegie joined the Caucus \I guess, because we were all so active and \successful\ in high school and all of a sudden things are so different here. The men seem to run everything.\ It seems that many women find that they need the support of other members of their sex in a school which is perceived by many to be \male dominated.\ Women find that they are not only forced into a competitive academic atmosphere when they arrive at Union, but in order to enjoy their social lives here they must also compete with other women and play the role of the \typical female.\ Social functions, much to the objection of many of the women, often center around the fraternities. Some frats obviously differentiate between men and women simply by allowing women free entrance to parties while men have to pay. While some men say that the women have 'no right to complain about free entrance, some women see it as representative of societie:o. treatment of women and degrading. Thws the Women's Caecus serves as a pleasant social meeting group as well as a center for political action at Union. At present the Caucus, which is chaired by Marjorie Kohn, is alii fema:Je, althowgh the constitution for the group explicitly states tha:t it is open to members of both sex.es and in the past a few men have signed up. Past Accomplishments The Women's Caucus is separate from the President's Commission on the Status of Women, although at times their tasks do overlap. The Caucus is more of a socially oriented group and is interested primarily in student affairs, while the Commissions is involved with the status of all women on campus. In the past the Caucus has instigated and worked on the new lighting system proposal for campus, the status of female health care here and started a women's library. The Caucus also planned the successful Women's Week last year, which was a series of lectures, group session and workshops and was open to the entire campus and community. Future Plans The plans for the Caucus include a woman's newsletter which will be written and edited by women on campus, a booth for Parent's Weekend, further investigation of health care facilities on campus, and possible encounter sessions. Basically the Caucus will continue to serve as a meeting place where women can feel free to \act themselves\ and gain support from other women, thereby learning that they do not have to play any role to be accepted as an individual. Ideas for additional projects for the Caucus are always welcome, and all members of the Union community are invited to attend the Monday night (9:00 p.m.) meetings in Carnegie. Her momentous· decision came about late one night as she quietly sat in one of Richmond's well lit, soundproofed, ventilated, wastebasketed typing rooms; a nice, efficient container that surrounded her with the nothingness in which she found it easy to exude thoughts (as opposed to think). She thought about the day that had just ended with fondness and regret as she gazed over her \Normal College Day Checklist\ (one of the many gratuities provided by the bookstore in September). Moving swiftly down the column, she checked off the items in order. .. talked about diets, check, putzed for at least two hours, check, complained about pu tzing- one hour, check, and so on and so forth, etc.,On this night, however, something was amiss; she had an urge to fill in the blank space provided at the bottom of the checklist that allowed for an individual's own, personal, daily habit to be developed by the time the student is secure in winter term. This last item was commonly referred to as \the quirk.\ Never before had she been able to produce a habit that was decidedly hers for the checklist, she was still testing out the different college identities Our heroine sat in that typing room, easing into, diving into her newly discovered cynicism. So many supporting examples came to her head; the tedious, never- ending, yet never long enough days, the seeds of good work hidden within layers of futile work, the social games, the scholarly martyrdom. Yes, she was getting well into her role; she would be known as 'the cynic' as she tramped her way across this intimate, observant campus. But we must not get too far ahead of ourselved in this little biography, because folks, she did none of these things. She dropped out of college at eighteen but that was to marry a medical student who would become a famous surgeon on the money she provided for his medical school as she was forced by popular demand to write stories for The New Yorker. Now, we all know that is why she went to Union anyway! Thanks Dad. Attention lob Holders The End Equal employment opportunity commission decisions have made it illegal: I. to dismiss the woman, but not the man for partaking in an affair #71- 2678 2. to denv a job because there are no separate toilet facilities for males and females. #YNY -9-047 3. to refer to adult women as \'girls\ #72-0679 . 4. to restrict smoking for women but not for men. #71-109 5. to deny women the right to wear slacks at work #70-920 71-1 (Dammit it's 2 A.M. and I have an 8:30) 6. to deny a job because a woman is an unwed mother Reprint from NY State NOW SPEAK OUT , This page is being co-ordinated ~ by Women's Caucus. Material 1 t can, and hopefully will be, • submitted by anyone regardless of , sex or standpoint. Poetry, short ~ • creative writings, art, opinions ; ~ and articles dealing with. written 1 t by, or pertaining to, women are more than welcome. Also, please ; t react to the national and local ~ issue~ that affect .peoples' lives, as i ~ well as the male-female situation 1 • on campus. Write a letter - state t an opinion - even be biased - ~ but please speak out. Material 1 can be dropped off in the Caucus 1 mailbox (student activities) or in , our office in 201 Carnegie. Headline is Monday noon for the ~ upcoming issue. , ........ c---.J,..../~ Upcoming Events THIS WEEKEND Aprill8, 19 and 20. Alhany State is sponsoring a Women's Weekend this Friday through Sunday. Speaker~. entertainers. and dinners are on the agenda. A rough schedule is as follows: Friday evening: f. pm-communal dinner: 8:30-Coffeehouse with female entertainment. Saturday: 12 pm-2:00 and 3:00-5:00-Workshops on: Woman and Careen .. Women·~ Self Help Health center (from Bmton), Sports, Sexi'm in l.an_gua!!e. Rare. Fear of Succe>~. and l.eshiani>m. Sunday: 12-5:00 Crafh Fair: 9 pm Dance featuring FRI.ENDS; 12 pm Hrunch: 2 pm Sports. NEXT WEDNESDAY April 23 hnall~·. a chance to 'ho\.\ 'upport The Union Women's Glee Cluh i> joined h\ the RPI Men\ Glee Club in concert in our own Memorial Chapl:l at X p.m. The main pro!!ntlll will con ... i>t of \The Ma)!nificat\ hv (iimanni Per)!ole~i. ·y he comxrt will he rercated at Troy·, Chapel and Cultural Center on Friday Arril 25. also at X pm. COMING SOON Caroline Bird. author of Born Female, Everything a Women Knows to Get Paid What Shes Worth, and The Case Against The Colle~e. Al-.o. Information on !!\'nccolo!!ic:al care: in the area and pcrhn.p'> a propo,allor the -.chool. Will the people (person) who borrowed the following materials please return them to the Caucus when they are through: Memo From Mary Anne Krupsak, Lieutenant Governor of N.Y. State: \The State Equal Rights Amendment has passed the Assembly and is now before the Senate Judiciary Committee. Senator Warren Anderson, majority leader, and members of that committee should know of your interest { 52824- Winikow). Judiciary Committee members: Gordon, chair, Caemmerer, Maechi, Calandra, Dunne, Rolison, Marino, Pisani, McFarland, Bronston, Lewis, Galiber, Meyerson, Burstein, and Straub.\ Calls to Albany are local on private phones. I. Pamphlet on Abortion 2. MEMOIRS OF AN EX- PROM QUEEN by Alix Kates Shulman 3. BODY LANGUAGE by Julius Faust t] tl s j ( ( (

Page9 CONCORDIENSIS, Wednesday, Aprill6, 1975 ------------------ -,PoWers Behind the Throne Continued f~om Page l the proposed student .government: ten students on the AU-College Sen~te, tile Student Forum, the Agenda Committee, the Audit Committee, the Committee on Committees, the all-student committees, the all-$tudent clubs, and the stlt(j,ents on the All- College committees. The role of the All~College Senate is to arbitrate all the .All-College committees and to ·be the highest govermng body on campus; the Student Fprum will !serve~ as a student ombudsman, tnuckracker r poller, communication center, appeal body for an student committees, and to evaluate the junior lrustee after his first year; the Agenda Committee will draw up and appx-Ove the agenda for each Student Forum meeting; the Audit Committee will distribute- and audit use of student tax • money, .establish and administer guidelines fo~clubs, approve new. club constit:u.tions, communicate with each student club once a term, and report its own activity to the Student Forum once a term; and the Committee on Committees will appoint members to the Audit ComJnittee, Social Committee, Film Committee, Elections CommitJ:ee, and the AU- J t AI.~C;I~ I (b~ I ~t:.~~~ I ~·· College committees, \and will draw up and administer all appointing policy, meet with each committee once a term, and report its own aptivity to the Student Forum once a term. There are quite a few interesting details in the proposal. The ten students who sit on the All-College Senate will also sit on the Student Forum. The senior Trustee sits on the Senate, Forum, and Committee on Committees, and the junior Trustee on the· Forum and A:udit Committee. There will only· be three classes represented in the I government .at one time; when the freshman. representatives are elected during winter term, the ·senior represerttatives leave their office. A member from three importartt All-College committees will sit on the Student Forum. Places for .a freshman will be reserved on the Audit Committee and two major All-College committees. If students have any questions or need clarificatiort regarding this new proposal, it is to be considered and voted on at the next. Steering Committee meeting, Thursday, April 24, at 7:30 p.m. State of the Arts Continued from Pa~e I to build · a successful Arts program, the past attitudes of the college are unacceptable. Union now has an Arts Department with over 60 · full time and interdepartmental majors. The fledgling program has managed to produce some very successful grad1.1ates, amongst them being Brian Fennely,. who now teaches composition at NYU. According to Professor Wilson, \no place in the United States can give better basic 1Jreparation in the Arts than Union.'~ With a proven successful program, further development has still been hampered by unclear administrative plans and urgent faculty and facility needs. _ Drama professor Barry Smith also noted a need for first-hand exposure to performing arts groups. He added that next year steps are being taken in this direction in the form of possible college funding for programs ot this sort. Still, the most immediate need of the de.partment, according to Professor Wilson are faculty increases encompassmg voice training and an expansion of the physical plant. Professor Bittleman stated that, \BasiC building must take place if the arts ' 11 are to expand.'' Without adf<quate facilities, tJ.nion risks losing many competent, prospective Arts majors. The Arts Department is working with the Admissions department in seeking quality students with specific interests in the Arts: many wind up at~ending schools with more extensive Arts programs. tliegoals of the Arts; Department go beyond education, in basic skins. Barry Smith. explains that the department: attempts to indoctrinate students • from the general college: community and d,evelop high standards of professional' excellence. . Professor Wilson· described the graduating Union arts major as, equipped with the basic skills of the aJ;ts, capable of .. \making the decision for himselft whether or not to pursue this• career.\ -In terms of facilities, much is needed. ln areas such as visual· arts, film media, artd libraries nothing exists whatsoever. At present, the aged Nott Memorial 1s crumbling and no action has been taken on last year's architects report on the Nott's future - thus, the home of the Mountebanks is threatened. Barry Smith remarked that rudimentary repairs were possible to fix the Memorial's leaking roof - all that was missing was. the ever- evasive funding. No plans have been confirmed for a new Art- Theater <:omplex, but president Bonner pointed out that such a structure is next in line in college building priorities after the already-planned gym. President Bonner's concern for the future of the Arts reflects a greatly changed attitude from the past. Professor Bittleman described the past history of the Arts at Union as analogous to the position of blacks iq America: \There has been an innate prejudice against the Arts ... the Arts are looked at . with ' suspicion.\ Despite this,. the program grew and an awareness of the importance . of a viable department with it. Before the importance of a viable Department can be realized, the department has to he considered with the same integrity as any other department. According to Professor Wilson, one of the most telltale examples of lack of .faith in the Arts in the almost complete apathy of attendance at departmental concerts and exhibiti()ns on the part of the Union faculty. Professor Wilson stressed that without even such a ~ursory trust in the Arts Department's programs the college community could not function. If awareness of the department's integrity is allowed to increase, a positive result might be had on the Union community. A healthy Arts program would probably be the easiest way to create a communit}' spirit h~re. A BLITHER The Freshman Record will hold a very important meeting on Monday, April 21 at 7:00 pm in North College 2nd floor lounge. We have exciting ideas for a new format that we would like to discuss. Photographers, artists, copy and layout -no previous experience needed.,Come join us! Nicki Weiss (370-6537) and Bill Rota (370~6644) . * * * * * All seniors interested in organizing a last \senior fling\ (party, banquet); please contact Mrs. Marra. All suggestions are welcome. * * * * All Biology Majors: A Jetter explaining the propo~ed curriculum revision can be found on the Biology Bulletin Board. This Jetter in particular deals with the changes in the core courses. All majors are urged to fill out the questionnaire acc~mpanying the Jetter on this very important i~sue. * * * * The Union College Pre-Law Society will meet this Thursday, April 17th, at 4:30 in SS016.Jt is imperative that all interested students attend, so that the proposed constitution may be voted upon. If it is impossible for you to be there, please notify a friend \.Vno plans on going as to your recommendations concerning days and times for future meetings. * * * * There will be a meeting of W2UC. the Union College Amaff;ur Radio Society, on Tuesday, April 22 at 7 p.m. in Haskin's Lab. All interested students are invited to attend. For further information, call Rich Barnett (370-6501) or jlohn sre:;-er (370-6456).~ * * * * The Schenectady PYE Club meets every Wednesday evening' at 7 p.m. in the West College Library. All persons interested in environmental problems and willing to help remedy some of them are urged to attend. Call Gary Lovett at 346-921 I or Paul Siegel at 370-6437 for further information. * * * * The President's Commission on the Status of Women will hold an open meeting on Tuesday, April 22nd in Strauss Lounge, from noon to 1:30 p.m. Dessert and coffee will be served. * * * * Theta Delta Chi's Steak and Ale party will be held at 2:30 p.m. on Saturday, May 17. on Library field. Tickets are $3.50 in advance or $4.00 at .the door. Steak. a variety of salads. and beer or lemonade will be served. All proceeds will be donated to the Shrine Hospital Fund in memory of Larry Hadbavny. · * * * * The Film Seminar Series of the Biology Department will show two free color films: \Animal War-Animal Peace\ and \Winged World. The Instinct and Intelligence in Birds.\ The films will be shown Wednesday, April 23rd, at 7:30 p.m .. in the Science Center. Room N210 (in the Mechanical Engineering Section). All students are invited to attend. Future film dates 'Will be displayed on the Biology Bulletin fBoard. Mit\ All Orientation Advisor applicants must sign up for interviews (held April22~23) at the Student Activities Office. , f I d t t 'th f to control funds, the Trustees are success u epar men w1 , or example, a la~ge art collection, in a position of funding expansion, maintaining the status would be a magnet for the entire. quo, or ·allowing the Arts to campus:Also, the department revert to their original non-state. seeks an \affinity of sciences and The security of the old policy of the fine arts\: stifling the growth of the Arts As it now stands, the Arts department is viewed as a Department is in a state of limbo. mistake: as Professor Bittleman \The college has created a sort of says, \the college could develop Frankenstein's monster,\ Wilson the kind of program which could said, \explaining that the future change life in American society of the Department was now at a for the better ... the potential is decisive point. Having the power there.\ . ,,:.·-. The Union Sub Shop sul'fa4::es for spring, ready to torpedo the viscera of potential customers. Pay them a visit and .blow your ballast! photo credit Spiney Eddie ,.

CONCORDIENS!S, Wednesday, Apri/16, 1975 iiiliiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii Page 9 ··Powers Behind the Throne Continued from Page 1 the proposed student government: teA. st1:1dents on the All-College Sen~te, the Student Forum, the Agenda Committee, the Audit Committee, the Committee on Committees, the all-student committees, the aU-student clubs, and the students on the All- Coltlege committees. The role of the All-College Senate is to arbitrate aU the AU-College committees and to be the highest governing body on campus; the Student Fo~um wiU :serve· as a student ombudsman, muckracker, poHer, communication center, appeai body for all student committees, and to evaluate the junior Trustee after his first year; the Agenda Committee wiH draw up and approve the agenda for each Student Forum meeting; the Audit Committee will distribute and audit use of student tax money, establish and administer guidelines for clubs, approve new club constitutions, communicate with each student club once a term, and report its own activity to the Student Forum once a term; and the Committee on Committees will appoint members to the Audit Committee, Social Committee, Film Committee, Elections Commiuee, and the All- College committees, and will draw up and administer all appointing policy, meet with each committee once a term, and report its own a~tivity to the Student Forum once a term. There are quite a few interestiag details in the proposal. The ten students who sit on the All-College Senate will also sit on the Student Forum. The senior Trustee sits on the Senate, Forum, and Committee on Committees, and the junior Trustee on the Forum and Audit Committee. There will only be three classes represented in the government at one time; when the freshmaa representatives are elected during winter term, the senior representatives leave their office. A member from three important i\11-College committees will sit on the Student Forum. Places for a freshman will be reserved on the Audit CommiUee and two major Ali-CoHege committees. If students have any questions or rieed clarification regarding this new proposal, it is to be considered aad voted on at the next Steering Committee meeting, Tlmrsday, April 24, at 7:30 p.m. State of the Arts Continued from Pa~e 1 to build a successful Arts program. the past attitudes of the college are unacceptable. Union now has an Arts Department with over 60 full time and interdepartmental majors. The fledgling program has managed to produce some very successful graduates, amongst them being Brian Fennely, who now teaches composition at NYU. According to Professor Wilson, \no place in the United States can give better basic preparation in the Arts than Union.\ With a proven successful program, further development has still been hampered by unclear administrative plans and urgent faculty and facility needs. Drama professor Barry Smith also noted a need for first-hand exposure to performing arts groups. He added that next year steps are being taken in this direction in the form of possible college funding for programs ot this sort. Still, the most immediate need of the department, according to Professor Wilson are faculty increases encompassing voice training and an expansion of the physical plant. Professor Bittleman stated that, \Basic building must take place if the arts are to expand. •' Without adequate facilities. Union risks losln~g many competent, prospective Arts majors. The Arts Department is working with the Admissions department in seeking quality students with specific interests in the Arts: many wind up attending schools with more extensive Arts programs. The-- goals of the Arts. Department go beyond education• in basic skills. Barry Smith. explains that the department: attempts to indoctrinate students• from the general college· ----- community and develop high standards of professional excellence. Professor Wilson described the graduating Union arts major as, equipped with the basic skills of the arts, capable of. \making the decision for himself, whether or not to pursue this• career.\ - In terms of facilities, much is needed. In areas such as visual arts. film media, and libraries nothing exists whatsoever. At present, the aged Nott Memorial is crumbling and no action has been taken on last year's architects report on the Nott's future - thus, the home of the Mountebanks is threatened. Barry Smith remarked that rudimentary repairs were possible to fix the Memoriafs leaking roof - all that was missing was the ever- evasive funding. No plans have been confirmed for a new Art- Theater complex, but president Bonner pointed out that such a structure is next in line in college building priont1es after the already-planned gym. President Sonner's concern for the future of the Arts reflects a greatly changed attitude from the past. Professor Bittleman described the past history of the Arts at Union as analogous to the position of blacks in America: \There has been an innate prejudice against the Arts ... the Arts are looked at with · suspicion.\ Despite this. the program grew and an awareness of the importance of a viable department with it. Before the importance of a viable Department can be n:alitcd, the department has to be considered with the same integrity as any other department. According to Professor Wilson, one of the most telltale examples ol lack of faith in the Arts in the almost complete apathy of attendance at departmental concerts and exhibitions on the part of the Union faculty. Professor Wilson stressed that without even such a cursory trust in the Arts 'Department's programs the college community could not function. If awareness of the department's integrity is allowed to increase. a positive result might be had on the Union community. A healthy Arts program would probably be the easiest way to create a community spirit here. A BLITHER The Freshman Record will hold a very important meeting on Monday. April 21 at 7:00 pm in North College 2nd floor lounge. We have exciting ideas for a new format that we would like to discuss. Photographers. artists, copy and layout -no previo11s experience needed.,Come join us! Nicki Weiss (370-6537) and Bill Rota (370-6644) . * * * =I< * All seniors interested in orga11i1ing a last .. senior fling\ (party. hanquet): please contact Mrs. Marra. All suggestions are welcome. * * * * All Biology Majors: A letter explaining the proposed curriculum rev1s1on can be found on the Biology Bulletin Board. This letter in particular deals with the changes in the core courses. All majors are urged to fill out the questionnaire accompanying the letter on this very important i~sue. * * * * The lJ nion College Pre- La...v Society will meet this Thursday. April 17th. at 4:30 in SSO 16. It is imperative that all interested students attend, so that the proposed constitution may he voted upon. If it is impossible for you to be there. please notify a friend who plans on going as to your recommendations concerning days and times for future meetings. * * *' * There wilJ be a meeting of W2UC. the Union College Amateur Radio Society, on Tuesday, April 22 at 7 p.m. in Haskin\ Lab. All interested students are invited to atteHd. For further information, call Rich Barnett (370-6501) or ,Toh.n Bre;-er (370-6456)_. * * *' * The Sd!enectadv PYE Club meets every Wednesday evening at 7 p.m. in the West College Library. All persons interested in environmental prablems and wilh ng to help remedv some of them are urged to attend. Call Gary Lovett at 34.6-9211 or Paul Siegel at 370-6437 for further information. * * =I< * The President\ Commission ()fl the Status of Women will hold an open meeting on Tue~day. April 22nd in Strauss Lounge. from noon to I :30 p.m. Dessert and coffee will he served. * * =I< * Theta Delta Chi's Steak and Ale party will he held at 2:30 p.m. on Saturday. May 17. on l.ihrary field. Tickets are S3.50 in advance or $4.00 at the door. Steak. a variety of salads. and heer or lemonade wi 11 he serwd. :\11 proceed' will he donated to the Shrine Hospital Fund in memor~· of Larn Hadham~. * * * * The Film Seminar Series of the Biology Department \\ill show tv.o free color film~: \Animal \\'ar-Animal Peace\ and \Winged World. The Instinct and Intelligence in Birds.\ The films \lill he ~hown Wednesda:-·. April 23rd. at 7:.10 p.m .. in the Science Center. Room \'210 (in the Mechanical Fnginccrin!! Section). All studenh are imitcd to attend. Future film date' will he di~pl.ayed nn the Biology Bulletin \Board.~· * * * * All Orientation Advisor applicants must sign up for interviews (held April 22-23) at the Student Activities Office. ,. successful department with, for example, a large art collection, would be_ a magnet for the entire campus. Also, the department seeks an \affinity of sciences and the fine arts\: to control funds. the Trustees are in a pos1t1on of funding expansion. maintaining the status quo, or allowing the Arts to revert to their original non-state. As it now stands, the Arts Department is in a state of limbo. \The college has created a sort of Frankenstein's monster,\ Wilson said. \explaining that the future of the Department was now at a decisive point. Having the power The security of the old policy of stifling the growth of the Arts department is viewed as a rnistake: as Professor Bittleman says. \the college could develop the kind of program which could change life in American society for the better ... the potential is there.\ The Union Sub Shop surfaces for spring, ready to torpedo the viscera of pot~ntial customers. Pay them a visit and bbw your ballast! photo credit Spiney Eddie

' ' ·I,·. Page 10 CONCORDJENSJS, Wednesday, April/6, /975 :About the Committees The information in parentheses following the name of each committee is its membership in terms of the number of faculty (F), students (S), administrators (A) and staff (Sf} that sit on the committee. Admissions (8F, 6S, 2A): ln selecting membership for this comm.ittee, the College needs to represent the broad divisions· of academic disciplines which students· may elect. The committee advises on the criteria observed in accepting students and passes upon applications for admission. Last year the committee met seven times to first discuss policy matters and then to vote on individual admission cases under those policy · decisions. The committee is also empowered to review both the procedures and decisions concerning aclmission. Faculty: Schaefer; Hartwig, Kenney, Knull, Maddaus, Mansfield, Mittal, Russ, Warde. Administration: En.teman, Shupe. Students: Susan Brecher, Candace Dunlop, Howard Epstein, David Heiiberg, Tho~as Watts, ·Mark Young. Academic Opportunity (3F, ZS, lA): This subcommittee of the Admissions Committee is autonomous on matters related to the administration of the Academic Opportunity program. The committee works closely with the administrative offices on regular term and summer programs for students whos~ formal preparation for admission differs from that expected of the entering class. Faculty: Bick, Walbek, Walker Admin.: M. Smith, Davis (ex. off.) Honorary Chancellor for each year by sending to the Board ·of Trustees a list of suggested names. Faculty: Board; Jonas.; Seemann, Wilson Administrator: Pearson Students: Laurence Primack, William Katz Liaison and Governance (4F, 3S, lA, 2St): The responsibility of this committee 'is to act as a corporate ombudsman on anything in the College. It also . serves to investigate rumors al'ld spil<;e these that ate without foundation. In addition, the committee establishes the proper procedures for systematic evaluation of administrators on campus and arranges for the distribution of its results. On occasions when vacancies for major administrative-academic posts occur at the level of academic eeans or above, the committee determines procedures for review of the candidates by faculty and students. The committee also reserves the right to dete,rmine procedures employed in creating and filling new administrative positions. This past year, the committee involved itself in .six major activities: 1) it proposed and implemented a procedure for evaluating administrators, 2) at the President's. request, it set up procedures for the permanent appointment of the then-Acting Provost, and later organized, with the assistance of the Provost, a search committee for a new Dean of Students, 3) the committee arranged for a review of the new governance system and included its recommendations in its ann11al report, 4) it conducted a review of the College and facu:Jty committees, by polling their chairmen, as to what each committee thought its respective size and constituency should he, 5) in awareness of the problems Students: Thomas Robert Wilson Athletics Watts, inherent in assigning graduate (4F, 5S, 2A):· This committee may, at its discretion, review the policy pertaining .to intramural and intercollegiate athletics, p hy sica! education and recreational opportunities at the College and is expected to make recommendations. This year the committee has made a concerted effort to shift the emphasis upon athletics at Union College from the varsity and intercollegiate level to programs and facilities that will be more attractive and beneficial to the College community as a whole. ·Extensive work has been done by the committee in planning a hew building to be built some time within the decade as an addition to the Fieldhouse. students to the College Senate and the Graduate Studies Committee, the committee proposed a procedure by Which these students might be selected by their constituency, and 6) it recommended amendments to both the Faculty Constitution and the By-Laws of the College Senate bringing each document up to date. F acuity: Bristol; Elliston, Panlilio, · Pilcher Administrator: Enteman Staff: Hogle, Rutter Students: Douglas Bitch, Alan Gnessin, Deborah Oster (fall only), Ns:lson Weil Library (6F, 3S, OA): In an effort to represent the various academic disciplines within the College, th.is committee advises the Librarian Faculty: Kershner, Gregor, on library policies. In the past, Sheffer, Werner Admin.: Bonner, Smith Students: Louis Dunn, Lewis Insler, Richard Lipowicz, Alison Sloat, Ira Sutton Honorary Degrees · (4F, 2S, JA): This College committee is responsible for nominations from the faculty to the Special Trustee Committee on Honorary Degrees and also for the recommendations of c.andidates for appropriate honorary degrees. Annually, the Committee meets with ·the corresponding Trustee Committee to prepare a list of names to be submitted to the President for honorary d.egrees. It also participates with the Trus~ee Committee in the selection of ·dn the committee has dealt with issues such as: 1) requests for more books in the library and for the replacement of books lost, missing, or stolen, 2) means of financing the acquisition of more books, 3) the employment of proctors to quiet noisy students, 4) solutions to the problem of theft of books from the library, 5) adequacy of lighting in the library, 6) problems of noise generated by radiators, lack of carpeting, etc., 7) orientations and location .of facilities within the :'library, 8( setting of priorities for expenditure of funds received by the libraryy and 9). recommendations concerning dep~r~mental allocation~ of.funds Continued on Page f.O ' Choosing the Members· The time of the year which student members are selected for the various College, faculty and student committees is upon· us aU once !!gain. This year, tbe Student Committee .on Committees is taking a slightly differen~t approach to ,the selection process. In previ·otis years! the Committee has placed the hulk of its emphasis on the personal group interview; the application has been used merely as a means of soliciting names of interested students and the particular committees for which they wish to be considered. We have judged, however, that the amount af useful information gained from these interviews, does not at a:ll warrant the expenditure of ·titne and energy requin;d to coordinate, schedule and conduct interviews for a'll applicants. Although we may from tir.ne to time conduct some personal interviews at our own discretion, for they can be informative in making final selections in some cases. Our major emphasis this year will be upon the amount of information furnished to us by each student, in writing, on his own personal application. All of our selections are made contingent upon Steeri-ng Committee approval. We are interested, of course, iii any kind of eXperience · or specialization a student may have that helps to qualify him for appointment to a particular committee, hut most of these committees are not the kind for which experience is a prerequisite. The mere fact · that, as an applicant, one. is a student of Union College, is a primary qualification. The Student Committee on Committees is responsible for selecting this spring the student members of all the college, faculty and student committees appearing below. ln view of the magnitude of this task, we will be employing all the information we have available to us about individual committees and students. We will be in communication with the chairmen of each of these - committees, seeking evaluations of each (}f this year's student. members and any information pertinent to individual committees regarding criteria by which we might select students for assignment .. to these committees. With th~ exception of these sources, our judgements can be made initially only on the basis of the content of each individual application. Hence, we do hope that serious consideration of this fact wiil be reflected in the applications we receive. It will be difficult, for example, for us to consider any . i nd i vidUal application more seriously than it appears the applicant has treated it himself. To insure -tMt an applicant has taken cate to submit a well prepared a12Jilication, LD. numbers will be used for the initial screening precess. Name will be used only after thil! screening. It should be understood that there is an alternative government' proposal to be voted on by the All College Senate later this month. If ·passed, some changes in the committee structure will occur (i.e. consolitation of . certain committees, changes in the size of some committees, and creation of new committees). If this new structure is irn.plemented notification of the necessary adjustments in the application process will be made through Conco.-dy. .Following the summary of each committee is a list of its current members (for various teasmis, the number of places on each committee in ~parenthesis foflowing its name - may not be equal to the number of members listed). We do encourage interested students to make an effort to contact any of these individuals about their respective committees, for they will most 'Serving· Union ·: ForTh~e : Generations' . 166 Jay St. ! For Honest Service : and Good Jewelry ,.,.,..~~ : . . - likel¥ be ·better equ~pped to provid·e a more in-<lepth understanding of their particular committee. For additional information concerning this matter of the se:lectieri o:f students tQ committees, please feel free to coQ,tact any member of the StUdent Committee on Committees or the Student Activities Office, Old Gym. HaU (3706118). Application blanks .for all cornmitte~s will be 'available in the Student Activities Office on ·w-ednesday, April 16, and due back in the Student Activities Office on Fti(iay, April 25. Student Committee o.n Committees Brian Tucker, chairman, 346- 9829 Lee Rimsky, 34'6-9396 Allison 6rickley, 370-6656 Karen Spar, 346-9590 '·TYPlNG Reasollable Rates Fast Service / \ Zorba's Restaurant 140Jay St. · Breakfast Special $1.50 2 Eggs. & Bacon, Ham, or Sausage & Home Fries & Coffee OR Wheat Cakes OR Fren~h Tqast Lunch Special $1.60 ·~lb. Sandwich & Soup & .Coffee Dinner SteaJts, Chops, Seafood by Menu . New Art Policy Featuring A. MEL BROOK'S HS.JIYAL 12 CHAIRS Also CIIV_EMA TWO'S New Ad~tt Policy FeaturinK 'lOV'E F ltE' Also 'lADY DELtA' Rntcd X' for Adult• Only Proof of Age Required (18) fot1t. ftom 7 P.M .•

CONCORDIENS!S, Wednesday, Apri/16, 1975 About the Committees The information in parentheses following the name of each committee is its membership in terms of the number of faculty (F), students (S), administrators (A) and staff (Sf) that sit on the committee. Admissions (8F, 6S, 2A): In selecting membership for this committee, the College needs to represent the broad divisioRs of academic disciplines which students may elect. The committee advises on the criteria observed in accepting students and passes upon applications for admission. Last vear the committee met seven times to first discuss policy matters and then to vote on individual admission cases under those policy decisions. The committee is also empowered to review both the procedures and decisions concerning admission. Facultv: Schaefer; Hartwig, Kenney: Knull, Maddaus, Mansfield, Mittal, Russ, Warde. Administration: Enteman, Shupe. Students: Susan Brecher, Candace Dunlop, Howard Epstein, David Heilberg, Thomas Watts, Mark Young. Academic Opportunity (3F, 2S, lA): This subcommittee of the Admissions Committee is autonomous on matters related to the administration of the Academic Opportunity program. The committee works closely with the administrative offices on regular term and summer programs for students whose formal preparation for admission differs I rom that expected of the entering class. Faculty: Bick, Walbek, Walker Admin.: M. Smith, Davis (ex. off.) Students: Thomas Watts, Robert Wilson Athletics (4F. 5S. 2A): This committee mav. at its discretion, review the policy pertaining to intramural and intercollegiate athletics, physical education and recreational opportunities at the College and is expected to make re-commendations. I\his year the committee has made a concerted effort to shift the emphasis upon athletic~ at Union College from the varsity and intercollegiate level to programs and facilities that will he more attractive and beneficial to the College community as a whole. Extensive work has been done by the committee in planning a new building to be built some time within the decade as an addition to the Fieldhouse. Faculty: Kershner, Gregor, Sheffer, Werner Admin.: Bonner, Smith Students: Louis Dunn, Lewis I nsler. Richard Lipowicz, Alison Sloat. Ira Sutton Honorary Degrees (4F. 2S, I A): This College committee is responsible for nominations from the faculty to the Special Trustee Committee on Honorary Degrees and also for the recommendations of candidates for appropriate honorary degrees. Annually, the Committee meets with the corresponding Trustee Committee to prepare a list of names to be submitted to the President for ho~orary degrees. It also participates with the Trustee Committee in the selection of <'In HoRorary Chancellor for each year by sending to the Board of Trustees a list of suggested names. Faculty: Board; Jonas; Seemann, Wilson Administrator: Pearson Students: Laurence Primack, William Katz Liaison and Governance (4F, 3S. lA, 2Sf): The responsibility of this committee is to act as a corporate ombudsman on anything iR the College. It also serves to investigate rumors and spike those that are without foundation. In addition, the committee establishes the proper procedures for systematic evaluation of administrators on campus and arranges for the distribution of its results. On occasions when vacancies for major administrative-academic posts occur at the level of academic eeans or above, the committee determines procedures for review of the candidates by faculty and students. The committee also reserves the right to determine procedures employed in creating and filling new administrative positions. This past year, the committee involved itself in six major activities: I) it proposed and implemented a procedure for evaluating administrators, 2) at the President's. request, it set up procedures for the permanent appointment of the then-Acting Provost, and later organized, with the assistance of the Provost, a search committee for a new Dean of Students, 3) the committee arranged for a review of the new governance system and included its recommendations in its annual report. 4) it conducted a review of the College and faculty committees, by polling their chairmen, as to what each committee thought its respective si7e and constituency should be, 5) in awareness of the problems inherent in assigning graduate students to the College Senate and the Graduate Studies Committee. the committee proposed a procedure by which these students might be selected hv their constituency, and 6) it r~commended amendments to hoth the Faculty Constitution and the Bv-Laws of the College Senate- bringing each document ur to date. Faculty: Bristol; Elliston, Panlilio. Pilcher Administrator: Enteman Staff: Hogle. Rutter Students: Douglas Birch, Alan Gnessin. IJeborah Oster (fall onlv). Nelson Wei! - Library (6F, ]S, OA): In an effort to represent the various academic disciplines within the College, this committee advises the Librarian on library policies. In the past, the committee has dealt with issues such as: I) requests for more books in the library and for the replacement of books lost, missing, or stolen. 2) means of financing the acquisition of more hooks. 3) the employment of proctors to yuiet noisy students, 4) solutions to the problem of theft of hooks from the library, 5) adequacy of lighting in the library, 6) problems of noise generated by radiators, lack of carpeting, etc., 7) orientations and location of facilities within the 'library, S( setting of priorities for expenditure of funds received by the library, and 9) recommendations concerning departmental allocations of funds Continued on Page 10 Choosing the Members The time of the year which student members aore selected tor the various College, faculty and sHtdent committees is upon us all once again. This year, the Student Committee on Committees is taking a slightly different approach to the selection process. In previous years, the Committee has placed the bulk of its emphasis on the personal group interview; the application has been used merely as a means of soliciting names of interested students and the particular committees f0r which they wish to be considered. We have judged, however, that the amount of useful information gained from these interviews, does not at all warrant the expenditure of time and energy required to coordinate, schedule and conduct interviews for all applicants. Although we may from time to time conduct some personal interviews at our own discretion, for they can be informative in making final selections in some cases. Our major emphasis this year will be upon the amount of information furnished to us by each student, in writing, on his own personal application. All of our selections are made contingent upon Steering it himself. To insure that an applicant has taken care to submit a well prepared application, I. D. numbers wil'l be used for the initial screening process. Name will be used only after this screening. It should be understood that there is an alternative government propos<l'l to be voted on by the All College Senate later this month. If passed, some changes in the committee structure will occur (i.e. consolitation of certain committees, changes in the size of some committees, and creation of new committees). If this new structure is implemented notification of the necessary adjustments in the application process wiH be made through Concordy. Following the summary of each committee is a list of its current members (for various reasons, the number of places on each committee in parenthesis following its name ~ may not be equal to the number of members listed). We do encourage interested students to make an effort to contact any of these individuals about their respective committees, for they will most likely be better equipped to provide a more in-deptll understmtding of their particular committee. For additioRal information concerning tllis matter of the selection of students to committees, please feel free to contact any member of tile Student Committee oR Committees or the Student Activities Office, Old Gym HaH (3706118). Application blanks for all committees will be available in the Student Activities Office on Wednesday, April 16, and due back in the Student Activities Office on Friday, April 25. Student Committee on Committees Brian Tucker, chairman, 346- 9829 Lee Rimsky, 346-9396 Allison Brickley, 370-6656 Karen Spar, 346-9590 'TYPING Reasonable Rates Fast Service 393-2233 C om m i t tee a p pro va I. .; ·:::::: ::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ::;::;: ::::::: :::::;:: :;::::: :::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~ ::: ;; ; :::;:; :::::::::::::::::::::::: :~: :::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::; ·· We are interested, of course, in Maurice B. Graubart ~ any kind of experience or ----------------~;~~1~ j,i.J.~, .. ~-~.,.,.· specialization a student may have that helps to qualify him for appointment to a particular committee, but most of these committees are not the kind for which experience is a prerequisite. The mere fact that, as an applicant, one is a student of Union College, is a primary qualification. The Student Committee on Committees is responsible for selecting this spring the student members of all t·he college, faculty and student committees appearing below. In view of the magnitude of this task, we will be employing all the information we have available to us about individual committees and students. We will be in communication with the chairmen of each of these committees, seeking evaluations of each of this year's student members and any information pertinent to individual committees regarding criteria by which we might select students for assignment. to these committees. With the exception of these sources. our judgements can be made initially only on the basis of the content of each individual application. Hence, we do hope that serious consideration of this fact will be reflected in the applications. we receive. It will be difficult. for example, for us to consider anv individual application more. seriously than it appears the applicant has treated 'Serving Union For Three Generations' 166 Jay St. For Honest Service and Good Jewelry Zorba's Restaurant 140 Jay St. Breakfast Special $1.50 2 Eggs & Bacon, Ham, or Sausage & Home Fries & Coffee OR Wheat Cakes OR French Toast Lunch Special $1.60 JA lb. Sandwicll & Soup & Coffee Dinner Steaks, Chops, Seafood by Menu New Art Policy Fm 1 1 II\ i rrg A MEl BRBOKS FESTIVAL 12 CHAIRS 1 I'\ THE PRODUCERS New Adult Policy 1-i.•aturing 'LOVE FilE' 'lADY DELIA' Rntrd '<:'for \dull' Onh l'ronf of .\gr Rrquirrd (Ill)

CONCORDIENSIS, Wednesday, April/6, 1975 Page 11 ------------~'----~------~~~~~~~~~~~--~--~~---.---~--~~~~ addition to, and in coordination Joseph Norris, Michael Rehr. Still More Committees! with,. that provided by the Tax Committee fraternities .on campus, the (3S): This committee lS Coffeehouse, and the Film Committee. responsible for the dist:ribution of Student Tax Fund, collected each term through the Student Activities Fee, to various student organizations. Any organization wishing student tax subsidy must annually submit a budget to this committee. On the basis of these Continued _from ~age 9 for the purchase of books. the committee ate merely advisory on committee also advises the general policy and do not College administration on policy participate in the committee's concern.ing the College consideration on individual cases. Bookstore. Faculty: .Galantowicz, Harlow, Faculty: .Hansen; Galantowicz, T~strost, Jonas, Reece and Roth Sharlet, G. Smith, Tolan, Waters Admin.: Entemen, Lichterman Students: Carol Meyer, Lynn Students: Mitchell Mindlin, Wintress, Wendy Wolk Margot Oliver Special Events Standards ·(5F, 3S, lA): 'Upt:>n request of This committee consists of the the President, this committee following three semiautonomous makes recommendation!! and subcommittees assists in planning for special Hol)ors and Fellowships events. In p.roviding programs at (4F, 2S, OA): This subcom- the College for an academic year, mittee has the responsibility of the committee assumes reviewing the evolving pattern of responsibility fot the selection College and Departmental honors and arrangement of such programs within the College and programs, for · hospitality to recommending to the -faculty performers, and for alerting the changes to guarantee parity in appropriate administrative offices these progfams within the college. on the arrangements necessary for \this committee from time to time lectures and concerts. It may also also reviews the College's review the policy concerning the fellowship programs and policies offering of such program~. The and makes appropriate committee does discuss the range recommendations. of religious activities appropriate Faculty: Swartz, Carlile, general policy and are excl\1ded from the Committee's consideration . of individual cases. Faculty: Tobiessen, Kent, Loughlin, Nelson, Riggio, Russ, Warde Admin.: Lichterman, M. Smith, Schmidt, Shupe, Wylen Students: Steven Krakauer, .Joseph Silver, Amy Sornerstein, David Strom The Student Committee on Committees is charged with selecting, each year, a sophomore for assignment to the Social Committee to be· trained during his junior year to be chairman of the Committee in his senior year. Any sophomore applicants to the Social Committee interested in this commitment w.ill please so indicate on their application. Stt~dents: Christopher Fink, STUDENT COMM:ITTEES Douglas Alcaide, Thomas Behrendt, Marc Bober, Lois College Center (5S): This committee is Bristman, Joseph Castagna, Paul empowered to set general policy Daniel (IFC rep_,.), Joseph Feinberg, Erica Lorber, Mark in the operations of the College Maurer (fall only), James Mori, Center (Carnegie). Its pur;pose is Kelley Newton, Michael Patnode. to ensure the efficient running of · , the Center, acting as final arbiter S~~!l~~t_Life in matters of the allotment of (5S): This committee is time and space. The Committee is concerned with matters of student charged with responsibiliti~s life in the fraternities and invo'lving student staffing m dormitories; it does not supplant coordin!}.tion with the Office of the activities of the Inter- Financial Aid and the· Dean of fraternity Council. The Students, and,. further, to Committee works closely and in investigate all pessibilities for coordination with the Dean of funding the operations of the Students and the Director of College Center. Housing and may, from time to Students: J(evin Crawford, time, involve itself with the chairman, John ;. Desrochers, various other student activities Lance Jacobson, Christopher and committees as they relate to Nadherny, Kenneth Simon different aspects of student life. Elections Just this year, the Committee has· (5S): This committee is assumed the responsibility of responsible for the arrangement orgamzmg, implementing and and supervision of all College- rna in ta in i ng a 24-h our wide elections and referenda in information service through the which members of the student College's switchboard telephone body participate. Included among number. these responsibilities are the Students: Lynn Sutton; James election held every fall for the Kestenbaum, Marjorie Kohn, budgets and the criteria set by itself and the Steering Committee, the Tax Committee allocates Student Tax funds contingent upon approval by the Student Steering Committee. It may also recommend any changes in the Student Tax rate to the Steering Committee and the Boa,rd of Trustees. The Student Committee on Committees must also appoint, each year, a sophomore to the Tax Committee to be the secretary of the Committee his junior year <Jnd automatically chairman of the Committee his sen1ot year. In applying for- the Tax Committee, please indicate which position it is that is being applied for, via. secretary or at- large representative. Students: Nicholas Coward, William Talis, David Eilbott Film Committee (7S): This committee is responsible for film entertainment fot the college community. Included among its responsibilities are the selection and contracting of films, publicity and collecting of admission. Students: Liz Pava, Matt Brief, Cary Siegal, Sue Finkelstein, Mason Gomberg, Nancy Feldman, Bernard Carey Track Edged , selection of the freshman representatives to the 'Student Steering Committee and the election held every spring fot the selection of the balance of the student representatives to the Steering Committee and to the College Senate. Students: Stephen Wayne, Continued from Page l2 in the event to accompany his second in the shot put. Missed during the indoor season, jumper John De Stefano was a welcomed addition to the team. He gathered seconds in both the long and triple jumps. Also · returning after a winter spent mending, senior Dave Ricks acted as a clean-up man, collecting thirds in the high jump, long jump, 440 dash, and the pole vault. Freshman Ed Adams was the victor of the pole vault. clearing the bar at 12'6\. to the. College and may make recommendations concerning other activities which may support the religious activities of the campus. Faculty: Tidmarch; Bick, Curtis, Gado, Mansfield Administration: Carman Students: John Breault, Henry Bernstein; Howard Lax .Student Aid (4F. 3S, 2A): This committee reviews College policy relative to the awarding of financial aid to students. Recommendations for change. if any, are forwarded, in the appropriate form, to the College Senate for action. In addition, the Committee assists the Director of Student Aid in the determination of individual aid packages. Student members of the Committee participate only in decisions involving matters of policy, not in the determination of individual awards. Faculty: Girdner lngvarsson, Jancar, Sutter Administration: Maras, Timberlake Freund, Seiken Students: David McCourt, Richard Sommer Study Abroad and Foreign Students (SF, 4S, I A): This subcom- mittee was formed at the College Senate meeting of November 28, 1973 by consolidating the old subcommittees on Study Abroad ana Foreign Students. The committee receives and evaluates applications from students at the College who wish to study abroad, either under one of the special programs offered by the College or by individual arrangement. It is also charged with developing new programs of study abroad. The committee also reviews the credentials of those foreign students seeking to enter Union College. Faculty: Klemm, Bristol, Calabria, Roberts, Weick Admin.: Lichterman Students: Barbara Burek, Bat;bara Hershkowitz, Hope chairman, R.o bert Herman, Donald LeCascio, Barbara Reslyn, Howard Sewalsky Social (12S): The purpose of this committee is to provide student- sponsored social aj.ld- cultural activities and entertainment for the College community, m 374-5921 GEORGE'S MUSIC STORE Student Discounts 508 State St. Schenect~dy Students: Paul Barnard, Marcia Cantor, Susan Lasker Faculty Committees Karlin, Ellen Witt, Madelyn Yelton Standing of Students (6F, 4S, 4A): This The stakes were hi!{h as Union's most daring gamblers hit the casino table during last Thursday's Great Carnegie Party. Advisory Committee on Promotion, Salary and Tenure ~(5F, 3S, · 2A): The faculty members of this committee are elected by the faculty and join with the Dean of Faculty and Provost in reviewing the criteria for promotion, salary increases and the granting of tenure. The committee also reviews the evaluations submitted by department chairmen in preparation of instructional salaries for a subsequent year. The committee receives and makes recommendations to the President on all requests for promotion and tenure. The student members of the subcommittee is responsible for reviewing the records of those students receiving less than a satisfactory term average. It also deals at length with · student petitions for·readtnission and for exceptions or modifications in graduate requirements. The Committee may review those College policies affec'ting and ·those criteria determining the academic standing of students at the College. The Committee is charged to reexamine at regular intervals the criteria for the Dean's List standing and graduation honors. Tqe student members of the Committee may participate only on matters of ROOM FOR RENT Located over Peter Pause Restaurant, 53S Nott St. 3 bedrooms; living room, bath and kitchen. $SS per month (heat, water, electricity inCluded). See Peter Pause ),lroprietors for Info. - ~~\SUMMER THEATRE' ~~ . Jt}NE 30-AUGUST 31 Graduate Program : Open to some undergraduates Work with a Company of Equity Actors under t tbedirectionor DAVID SUMNER Founder Member of the Royal Shakespeare Company, Eng1and Seminars and Lab$. Inquiries to: Professor James Hepburn, . Department of English, Bates College 1 Lewiston, M~ne 04~0. ~ - - - t

CONCORD!ENS!S, Wednesday, Apri/16. 1975 PaJ;e 1 I ------------------------------~~~~~~~~~~---------------------------------- addition to, and in coordination Joseph Norris, Michael Rehr. with, that provided by the Tax Committee Still More Committees! trat~rnrtic-. <lll ..:arnpu-.. the fl~)· Thi' committee r~ Coffcch(JUsc, and the Film Committee. u;::.ponMbk fur thl: Ji::.ll ibution of Student Tax Fund, collected each Continued from Page 9 The Student Committee on term through the Student f'ommittel'~ i~ rh:-trged with .'\di,iti\.'\ fee. to \Hinu~ ~turlent for the rurchase ol books. l he ClllllllllllCC afC llh.:rd:y iHJI i::.u!) Oil committee also adv1ses the general pohq aHd Jo nut College administration on policy participate in the committee's gem:ral policy and arc excludf.'d I r <l m t he C o rn !H i It n: ·' consideration of individual cases. \·kctin1 each vear. a -;ophomore urg~rni;.rti<Hl~ ·\n\ ilrg.rnrt;rtrnn for assignment to the Social wishing student tax subsrdy must concerning the College consideration on individual cases. Bookstore. Faculty: Galantowicz, Harlow, Faculty: Tobiessen, Kent, Loughlin, Nelson, Riggio, Russ, Warde Committee to be trained during annually submit a budget to this his junior year to be chairman of committee. On the basis of these Faculty: Hansen; Galantowicz, Testrost, Jonas, Reece and Roth Sharlet, G. Smith, Tolan, Waters Admin.: Entemen, Lichterman Students: Carol Meyer, Lynn Students: Mitchell Mindlin, Wintress, Wendy Wolk Margot Ol·iver Special Events Standards (5F, 3S, lA): Upon request of This committee consists of the the President, this committee foHowim.g three seiUiautonomous ma.kes recommendatioRs aRd subcommittees assists in plann~ng for special Honors and Fellowships events. In providing programs at (4F, 2S, OA): This subcom- the College for an academic year, mittee has the responsibility of the committee assumes reviewing the evolving pattern of responsibility for the selection College and Departmental honors and arrangement of such programs within the College and programs, for hospitality to recommending to the faculty performers, and for alerting the changes to guarantee parity in. appropriate administrative offices these programs within the college. on the arrangements necessaFy for This committee from time to time lectures and con.certs. It may also also reviews the College's Feview the policy concerning the feHowship programs and policies offering of such programs. The and makes appropriate committee does discuss the range recommendations. of religious activities appropriate Faculty: Swartz, Carlile, Admi,n.: Lichterman, M. Smith, Schmidt, Shupe, Wylen Students: Steven Krakauer, Joseph Silver, Amy Somerstein, David Strom STUDENT COMMITTEES College Center (SS): This committee is empowered to set general policy in the operations of the College Center (Carnegie). lts purpose is to ensure the efficient running of the Center, acting as final arbiter in matters of the allotment of time and space. The Committee is charged with responsibilities involving student staffing in coordination with the Office of Financial Aid and the Dean of Students, and, further, to investigate all possibilities for funding the operations of the College Center. Students: Kevin Crawford, chairman, John 4 , Desrochers, Lance Jacobson, Christopher Nadherny, Kenneth Simon Elections the Committee in his senior year. Any sophomore applicants to the Social Committee interested in this commitment will please so indicate on their application. Students: Christopher Fink~ Douglas Alcaide, Thomas Behrendt. Marc Bober, Lois Bristman, Joseph Castagna, Paul Daniel (IFC rep.), Joseph Feinberg, Erica Lorber, Mark Maurer (faH only), James Mori. Kelley Newton, Michael Patnode. • Stu~enCLife ( SS): This committee is concerned with matters of student life in the fraternities and dormitories; it does not supplant the activities of the Inter- fraternity Council. The Committee works closely and m coordination with the Dean of Students and the Director of Housing and may, from time to time, involve itself with the various other student activities and committees as they relate to different aspects of student life. Just this year, the Committee has assumed the responsibility of orgamzmg, implementing and maintaining a 24-hour information service through the College's switchboard telephone number. Students: Lynn Sutton; James Kestenbaum, Marjorie Kahn, budgets and the criteria set by itself and the Steering Committee, the Tax Committee allocates Student Tax funds contingent upon approval by the Student Steering Committee. It may also recommend any changes in the Student Tax rate to the Steering Committee and the Board of Trustees. The Student Committee on Committees must also appoint, each year, a sophomore to the Tax Committee to be the secretary of the Committee his junior year and automatically chairman of the Committee his senior year. In app.lying for the Tax Committee, please indicate which position it is that is being applied for, via. secretary or at- large representative. Students: Nicholas Coward, William Talis, David Eilbott Film Committee (7S): This committee is responsible for film entertainment fot the college community. Included among its responsibilities are the selection and contracting of films, publicity and collecting of admission. Students: Liz Pava, Matt Brief, Cary Siegal, Sue Finkelstein, Mason Gomberg, Nancy Feldman, Bernard Carey (5S): This committee is responsible for the arrangement and supervision of all College- wide elections and referenda in which members of the student body participate. Included among these respmrsibilities are the election held every fall for the selection of the freshman representatives to the 'Student Steering Committee and the election held every spring for the selection of the balance of the student representatives to the Steering Committee and to the College Senate. Track Edged to the College and may make re\:ommendatiom, concerning other activities which may support the religious activities of the campus. racultv: 'fidmarch; Bick, Curtis. (iado, Mansfield Ad ministration: Carman Students: John Breault, Henry Bernstein. Howard Lax ..Student Aid (41-. 3S. 2A): This committee reviews College po !icy relative to the awarding of financial aid to students. Recommendations for change. if any, are forwarded, in the appropriate form, to the College Senate for action. In addition, the Committee assists the Director of Student Aid in the determination of individual aid packages. Student members of the Committee participate only in decisions involving matters of policy, not in the determination of individual awards. Faculty: Girdner lngvarsson, Jancar, Sutter Administration: Maras, Timberlake Students: Paul Barnard, Marcia Cantor, Susan Lasker Faculty Committees Advisory Committee on Students: Stephen Wayne, J 1 chairman, Robert Herman, Donald LeCascio, Barbara Reslyn. Howard Sewalsky Social ( 12S ): The purpose of this committee is to provide student- sponsored social and cultural activities and entertainment for the College community, m Freund. Seiken Students: David :\kCou rt. Richard Sommer Study Abroad and Foreign Students (SF, 4S. lA): !his subcom- mittee wa~ formed at the College Senate meeting of :-.lovembcr 28, 1973 by consolidating the old suhcommrttecs on Study !\broad ana Foretgn Students. The committee receives and evaluates . applications trom students at the '~' College who wish to study abroad, cit her under one of the special programs offered by the College or by i nd i vidual arrangement. It is also charged with developing new programs of study abroad. The committee also reviews the credentials of those foreign students seeking to enter Union College. Faculty: Klemm, Bristol, Calabria. Roberts, Weick Admin.: Lichterman Students: Barbara Burek, Barbara Hershkowitz, Hope Continued from Page 12 in the event to accompany his second in the shot put. Missed during the indoor season, jumper John De Stefano was a welcomed addition to the team. He gathered seconds in both the long and triple jumps. Also returning after a winter spent mending, senior Dave Ricks acted as a clean-up man, collecting thirds in the high jump, long jump, 440 dash, and the pole vault. Freshman Ed Adams was the victor of the pole vault. clearing the bar at 12'6\. 374-5921 GEORGE'S MUSIC STORE Student Di-;counb 508 State St. Schenectady Karlin. Ellen Witt, Madelyn Yelton Standing of Students (6F. 4S, 4A): This The stakes were hi~h as Union's most daring ~amhlers hit the casino tahle during last Thursdar's Great Carnegie Party. - Promotion, Salary and Tenure .(5F, 3S, 2A): The faculty members of this committee are elected by the faculty and join with the Dean of Faculty and Provost in reviewing the criteria for promotion, salary increases and the granting of tenure. The committee also reviews the evaluations submitted by subcommittee is responsible for reviewing the records of those students receiving less than a satisfactory term average. It also deals at length with student petitions for· readmission and for exceptions or modifications in graduate requirements. The Committee may review those College policies affecting and ·those criteria determining the academic standing of students at the College. The Committee is charged to reexamine at regular intervals the criteria for the ROOM FOR RENT r ·~~SUMMER THEATRE ·~~ . JUNE 30- AUGUST 31 • Graduate Program : Open to some undergraduates Work with a Company of Equity Actors under department chairmen in preparation of instructional salaries for a subsequent year. The committee receives and makes recommendations to the President on all requests for promotion and tenure. The student members of the Dean's List standing and graduation honors. Tqe student members of the Committee may participate only on matters of Located over Peter Pause Restaurant, 535 Nott St. 3 bedrooms; living room, bath and kitchen. $55 per month (heat, water, electricity included). See Peter Pause Proprietors for Info. the direction of DAVID SUMNER Founder Member of the Royal Shal\.espeare Company, England Seminars and Labs. Inquiries to: Professor James Hepburn, Department of English, Bates College, Lewis~, Maine U~O. _ ~ - - - t

· Page 12 CONCORD1ENSJS, Wednesday, April 16, 1975 Senior co-captain Bob Grossman trades blows . with hapless Hartwick defender in Saturday's victory. .photo by Mike Marks Lacrosse Wins Opener by.MARK GROSS Union's lacrosse team opened its season with a 14-7 win over Hartwick Saturday. The team was explosive. at times, scoring seven goals in a row to break open a 3-2 contest. They were also sloppy at times as evidenced by their failure to pick up ground balls, but as Coach Allison said after the game, \they have a lot of potential and will get a lot better.\ The mainstay of the defense is senior Willie. Garofalo, An injury to Mike Garonne and the loss of Kurt Schuman leaves Willie surrounded by a corps of freshmen. Kenny Beck, Pete Karmen, Bob Schick, and Doug Keppler all played exceptionally well in their first outing in Gamet uniforms. With Steve Haddad sidelined due to an injury, time in the cage was shl;lred by Al Ritchie and Ed Reyes. Despite three goals each by Tom Haffner and Roger Taylor for Hartwick, the goalies played well in the crease. The lax team has two more home contests this week. On Wednesday at 3:00 p.m. they will face Siena and on Saturday will play Syracuse at ·2:00 p.m. According to Allison, Siena is \able to . be handled\ and Syracuse \could be real tough.\ Netmen Beat RPI by ROMAN RAKOCZY Saturday April 12th marked the beginning of another tennis sel;!:son at Union. and the .squad got off to a good start by beating RPI 7-2 on the losers court. The matches were Closer than the score may indicate with Union winning three·, 3 set matches to provide the difference in the contest. K,evin Crawford playing at the number one spot had a tough three setter but was able to win the third set and thus nail down his vict<?fY· Kevin was simply in better condition and therefore made fewer · mental mistakes during the deciding set. Roman Rakeczy, playing number two was also extended to three sets. A lad of concentration in the second set prevented him ·from winning in straight sets. Rolf Lipton, probably the top newcomer to the team, played at number three. Rolf just didn't get any breaks and lost -a tough two setter. Despite his setback the team is looking for l<.ey wins fr()m th,is man. Dennis Linden burg blew his man off the court and that's all that can be said. Steve Marcus had the other three setter of the day. S.teve took advantage of his . opponent's let-down to win the .third set. Steve Wayne, better known for his doubles . play, scored the deciding 5th point to assure the victory. Steve has yet to reach the form that compiled a 7~1 singles record last year, but is improving with e&ch day. The doubles tMn were just a mere formality to complete the rest of the program. RPI's number one doubles team d'Owned Crawford and R,acoczy in two close .sets. The losers showed their inexperience as a team ·by making numerous unforced -errors. The number 'two combination ·of Lindenberg and Lipton had an easy time winning as did the thit:d team of Ma,rcus and Mitch Brand. Mitch is. a highly regarded freshman whQ is being ·courtted on to score points in doubles play. With the miserable weather we~ve had this spring no one knows what to expect from the team. One thing is ck:ar .. With the addition of \Williams to matches slated against Rochester, Clark, Middlebury and Albany State, the team will find it difficult to imp:rove on last year's mark of 8 w.ins and one defeat. - Free Swim Hours Pool Opens Monday, April 7, 1975 Swimming Pool Hours Spring 1975 • M0NDAY . 11:00 A.M.-1:00 P.M.; 2;3C P.M.-5:00 P.M.; 7:00 P.M.· 10:00 P.M. TUESDAY . 11:30 A.M.,.l:3{) P.M..; 2:30 t · P.M.-3:30 P.M.; 5:00 P.M.· With less than two minutes elapsed, Bobby Grossman took control of the ball behind the net, came around the right side of the cage and fired for his first goal of the season. With three minutes left in the game he scored for the fourth time. In between, the -Garnet showed a balanced attack with seven players breaking into the scoring column. Garnet Tracksters Edged 10:00 P.M. . WEDNESDAY II :30 A. M.-1:30 P.M.; 2:30 P.M.-3:30 P.M.; 5:00 P.M.- 10:00 P.M. Steve Gullans, starting for the first time in his career, tossed in three but could have had a half- dozen. Sophomore John Thompson continued last year's ways, notching two goals and an assist. Older brother J. T., playing on the first middie line, did likewise. A fair but disappointing day marked the initiation of the 1975 outdoor track season for the Dutchmen as they met the Wesleyan thinclads in Middletown, Connecticut. Bill Mowery and Mark Scheuer gave- standout performances despite the overall 82-72 teant loss. Mowery doubled in the shot put (50' 6W'), and the discus (137' 9\) and picked up a second in the hammer-throw. Scheuer claimed two individual wins with 16.0 Drew Beats Garnet Nine by SPINEY CATFISH ball to bounce back onto the On April 12 the Union College playing surface. The next batter, baseball team opened its season . Gary Borghese, singled Miller on a sour note, losing to a little- . home. Geese went to second on a talented Drew University team. passed ball and was singled home The Garnet nine ctrew first by \Easy\ Andrews. Union scored blood in the bottom of the first again in the seventh, as Milder inning. An error allowed lead-off reached on an error and scored batter Don Milder to reach first. on Ron Westbrook's double. He was moved to second by Ron Union had a 5-3 lead going 'into Westbrook's sacrifice and scored the eighth inning and the game no on Lou Miller's single. Drew longer seemed in doubt. The came back in the top of the phone to the .bullpen was even fourth, scoring three runs on only disconnected. But somehow Ore~ one hit. An error and two walked managed to come up with two batters helped account for the runs on three hits, and it was a sudden Drew total. Gary new game. Borghese led off the bottom of With the score tied going into the fourth with a single, and was the top of the tenth, Drew got moved to second by a Drew error. back-to-hack singles. A fielder's- Freshman Chuck Lampson drove choice left runners on first and Geese in with a line drive single to third. Catching Union in a right. prevent defense, Drew attempted Union scored two runs in the a squeeze bunt. Only an error bottom half of the sixth, and once allowed the play to be successful. in the seventh. Lou Miller led off )\he next batter tried the exact the sixth with a thunderous blast same squeeze bunt and again an to right center. He wound up on error permitted the runner from third, thanks to the fence third to score, successfully leaving separating Alexander Field from Union on the short end of a hard Union -Ave. which allowed· the fought game; 7·5-. · · · by ALLISON SLOAT secon<Is hi the 120-yard high hurdles and 56.5 in the 440-yard intermediates. Scheuer also led the winning mile relay team as Wayne Heywood, Jeff Broomes, and Dave Ricks joined for the win in 3:29.7. Broomes earlier had c~aimed second in the 440-yard dash. The new collegiate rule, which disqualifies runners after a single false start, caught sprinter Milt Herring at the onset of the 100• yard dash. Herring did, however, pick up team points in the 220 with a second, while Heywood Golfers Optimistic by THE GOLDEN BEAll With the coming of spring, the Union golf team finds. itself in its usual predicament: choosing a team to play Friday at Albany state without naving had much practice on a golf course. Hopefully the city course, Muny, or the Mohawk Country Club Will open .by then, affording the team a chance to play. Coach Scanlon returns this year with a resurrected team (the· golf team was officially cut from the athletic budget for a few months) with Dave Papa, Bill Peck, and Dick Lipowicz comiqg back from last year's 4-3 team. Mike Hennelly and Bill Dingman head a strong bunch of freshmen pJ!Shing for a spot in tire tl>p six. With a good -schedule this year, and ·hopefully !letter weather, this could be the best team in many years. - had third in the event. Freshman Bob Moffat was awarded the win in the 880 with a 1:58.7 clocking and was third man across the finish line for points in ' the two mile run. Wesleyan swept the mile. Continuin:g to display the skill which proved him so valuable in the '74 season, sophomore Rich Norman was victorious in the javelin throw with a 173'2\ toss, and AI .Gilewicz picked up a third · Continued- on ll THURSDAY 11:30 A.M.-1:00 P.M.; 2;30 P.M.-3:30 P.M.;· 5:00 P.M.- 10:00 P.M. FRIDAY 11:30 A.M.-1:30 P.M.; 2:30 P.M.-3:30 P.M.; 5:00 P.M.- 10:00 P.M. SATURDAY 12:00 noon-4:1)0 P.M.; --1~30 P.M.-9:30 P.M. SUNDAY . .1:30 P.M.-4:30P.M. - The intramural softball pennant drive swings into its · third week. Action here on Library Fielq. _,hoto b¥ D. •. Gt.Q~sman. Aec Cone4 Jackso bigh!!r l11st. t Way tc - to es1 70 Sa co stl wi de th Jc m ar c ce pt m di \ fc ( [

be led a but a we ere ing a me ing pel ble ing its Page A VoL 3~ No.•9· Union Colleee Black Student Alliance's Newspaper Wednesday, April 16, 1975 l Blackbyrds Kickoff Weekend Minority Applicants Rise The Black Weekend got off to a rousing start on April lith, as the Student Alliance of 'Union· presented in concert, Donald Byrd and the Blackbyrds. Memorial Chapel was jaQJ.med the hilt as the show was opened by a group known as God's Children. The very talented group was led by Union College's own, Santi Wilson DeBriano. The seven man jazz group which featured a mystery guest(?) more. than adequately set the stage for the rest of the evening. With the skyrocketing costs of a college education, and with the . added crunch of inflation, minority applications to institutions .of higher learning, were expected to decline. However, this was not the case at Union College, because minority applications to Union increased by a whopping fifty percent. There had to be a reason for this substantial rise. so· Perspective sought answers from Donnell Underwood. Mr. Underwood is the Assistant Director of Admissions, and is also one of the driving forces behind this increase. approximately sixty Black students out of nearly two thousand. Will there ever come a day when one hundred Blacks will \dawn\ Union college's campus? Mr. Underwood said, \There is a possibility of it being that and more. depending on Union's taking advantage of it. Just as we increased the applicant pool this year, we can do whatever we did this year, maybe three times as much, and increase the applicant pool three times as much for next year.\ Donnell went on to say that in the 1980's, enrollment for all students will be declining, so schools that are going to have minority students will have to attract them now. One of the difficulties that Donnell faces in recruiting Blacks to Union is the racial makeup of the college itself. Many Black and minority high school students are shocked to hear of the small percentage of Blatks at Union, and shy away from the college. In tny opinion, upon attending musical concerts,. if the opening act is dynamite, the main group usually doesn't have the explosive power of a firecracker. However, this was not the case on Friday night. Where _God's Children left the audience at a fever pitch, Donald ayrd and the Blackbyrds sent the crowd into terminal shock. The musicians under the. guidance of leader-spokesman Donald Byrd, are currently enrolled in Howard University's School of Music where they all maintain a grade point average of Donald Byrd, \making it 10ellow.\ . B or better. · ..lt.!a!i!'!.iiS!lii!BZimPAi!a!BESm!2!:Zil!\.i1!1'2!!'Ali!Ziil!'.iS!!'All!•:iil!!'.:il1 The talented entourage played There are many factors that created this nse in minority applications. Mr. Underwood stated that, \lfs a ·myriad of different reasons. Union's growing popularity is one. There have been articles about Union in the Boston Globe and the New York Times. The recession has a lot to do with it. A lot of minority students who would normally be working right now, have decided to go to college. Along with that there is a push now for engineering, law, and medicine among the minority community, and so naturally, a school that has good offerings in that area is Who is actually involved in the recruitment of minorities to Union? Contrary to popular belief, Donnell is the coordinator for the minority recruitment . effort, and not the \minority recruitor.\ He essentially finds out what things do recruit minorities, puts them together in a package, and takes thetn to the minority ·community. Minority recrtiitors at Union are basically Black students, administrators, but it is also a feeling coming from the administration of the college. The president, provost, and the deans, extending themselves to minorities can aid in the recruitment of Blacks. Editor's Prerogative Mind changes. They are bare necessities of our real selves. In this editorial, l would like to deal with widening our awareness of ourselves. It's very simple to sit down and intellectualize .about topics you are familiar with, and it is also very easy to bullshit when you a!e not sure of what you are talking about. You can go as far as to avoid the situatioh altogether. This same situation holds true for exposing your feelings. All of us have trouble when it comes to \letting ourselves go.\ selections from their first album, \The Blackbyrds,\ and tunes from their latest album, \Flying Start!\ Their latest album, .. \Flying Start,\ includes the smash single, \Walking in Rhythm,\ which is currently number twelve on the R&R charts, and climbing steadily. Donald Byrd and the Blackbyrds' music possesses the inate ability of transcending- all -kinds of taste in the music of today. The level of success that this group will achieve is definitely immeasurable. r;oin!! to become popular.\ Another possible reason could be the extensive recruitment procedures by Union. Applicants are sought from as far west as Chicago, as far east as Boston, and as far south as Florida. There are many white students and administrators at Union who believe that there are at least one hundred Blacks here, but this is _not true. At last count, there were Attica Informer Think about it for a minute. Example: you meet a nice person at a party who appears to be a together individual, and ,l:!•ma!':.iiii!!Biil!!\.iill!\.i'!!a!iBIPAI!\.ii!il!l. you rap about what you're doing at sch9ol, what your interests are. and so on. You have talked about these tired things so much. that ~ou are bored silly. and as usual, nothing happens. You probably ask yourself. \What do I have to do to let a person know there's a lot that they don't know yet?'' Unable to find a suitable answer, you leave the party, trying to convince yourself of the great time you had. What did you hope would happen? What were you· hoping to find'i The truth could probably be that you were looking for a friend: someone who ·would let you be you. Sur~ you have other friends. but there are some things that you cannot talk about with them. So you look for someone you can have that long desired open. honest relationship with. · We meet different people all the time -on campus, on the ·job. and during all types of social situations. Many of them have an air ~bout them that indicates that the only thing on their minds is \party yet things are not always the way they seem to be. Behind those smiles and blank expressions lie thoughts and feelings so pri.v.ate. that people wouldn't dare reveal them, and neither would you. Are you afraid of what people would think if you told them some of the things that run through your head? How would they react to your wildest dreams: becoming a rock star, inventing a cure for cancer. or even rum1ing for president? Instead of running the risk of having them look at you like you're cra7y, you say to yourself. \I'll just be cool.\ Then. when you are alone. an onrush ·of memories - things that have happened to you, things you have seen happen to others. and your reactions to everyday social pressures engulf your mind. Your reaction is the need to talk to Continued on Page C The New York Times reported on Sunday, April 13, that a Buffalo -white woman has admitted to informing on the Attica defense team. In ·a Saturday press conference, she revealed that she had become a member of the Attica' Brothers Legal Defense organization and reported activities of the ABLD to the Federal Bureau of Investigation. According to the Times,r an FBI spokesman said that the woman, Miss Mary J o Cook, \has furnished information to \'the Bureau on a confidential ·basis for which she was paid,\ but that, ''at no time had she furnished to the FBI information on the Attica Defense.\ Miss Cook said she had been · originally hired to inform on the Vietnam Veterans Against the War. The FBI said that she Worked_ as a paid informer between June, 1973 artd October, 1974. Miss Cook said that her pay ·was increased when she began informing on the Attica Defense. Both Attica defense lawyers and members of · the VV A W were present at the news conference as counsels for Miss· C~ok. With the Attica defense team, Miss Cook worked mainly on the ·jury project. The project's aim was to help the defense select a jury by polling the people in Buffalo. While with the defense team Miss Cook met Sidney L. Harring, who helped to create the Jury Survey Questionnaire. The survey was used in selection of a jury for the Hill-Pernasilice trial. One of the lawyers for the Hill- Pernasilice trial was William M.- Kunstler, who defended Mr. John Hill. ;Mr. Hill was convicted two weeks ago for the murder of a corrections officer during the 1971 prison revolt at Attica. In response to the statements by Mi~s Coo.k, Mr. Kunstler announced, according to the Times story, that .. he had mailed a motion calling on State Supreme Court Justice Gibert H. King, who had tried the case in Buffalo, to held an evidentiary hearing based on her information.\ Mr. Kunstler said (during a separate new~ conference from which this part of the Times story came) that if there had been Government informer contacts on the defense, he thought that the court should . dismiss the charges against Mr. With regards towards setting personal goals for the increase of Blacks, Mr. Underwood feels that this is not his place. He feels that this should be the job of the administration, trustees, faculty, and students, to set numerical goals. \I would not bring 150 to 200 Black students on campus without knowing that everybody else on campus cares enough. It is just unfair. That is why I believe the school should make the numbers commitment, because they have the ·responsibility to educate the student when they come,\ If Blacks and Whites on this campus are truly sincere in wanting to increase minority attendance at Union College, some type of consorted effort should be made. For those of you who have questions regarding this topic, please contact Donnell Underwood in the Admissions Office. Hill and his co-defendant, Charles Joseph Pernasilice, who was convicted of attempted assault.'' Mr. Kunstler said that, \it's the same as Wounded Knee or Ellsberg - it should be dismissed on grounds of Government misconduct.\ Miss Cook did not admit to having-informed on the Hill-Pernasilice trial, but said that she would be available to testify during any court hearing .

be led a but ing we ere ing a me mg pel ble ing its Vol. 3, N o.~9 Union Colleee Black Student Alliance's Newspaper Wednesday, Apri/16, 1975 Blackbyrds Kickoff Weekend Minority Applicants Rise Donald Byrd, \making it tnellow.\ Editor's Prerogative Mind changes. They are bare necessities of our real selves. In this editoriaL I would like to deal with widening our awareness of ourselves. It's very simple to sit down and intellectualize about topics you are familiar with. and it is also very easy to bullshit when you arc not \ure of what you are talking about. You can go as far as to avoid the situation altogether. This same situation holds true for exposing your feelings. All of us have trouble when it comes to '\letting ourselves go.\ Think ahout it for a minute. Example: you meet a nice person at a party who appears to he a together individual, and y<'IU rap about what you're doing at school, what your interests arc. and so on. You have talked about these tired things so much. that you are bored silly. and as usual, nothing happens. You probably ask yourself. \What do I have to do to let a person know there's a lot that they don't know yet?\ Unable to find a suitable answer, you leave the party, trying to convince vourself of the great time you had. What did you hope would happen? What were you hoping to find? The truth could probably be that you were looking for a friend: someone who would let you be you. Sure you have other friends. hut there are some things that you cannot talk about with them. So you look for someone you can have that long desired open. honest relationship with. We meet different people all the time - on campus. on the job, and during all types of social situations. Many of them have an air abmrt them that indicates that the only thing on their minds is '\party.\ yet things are noi always the way they seem to he. Behind those smiles and blank expressions lie thoughts and feelings so private. that people wouldn't dare reveal them. and neither would you. Arc you afraid of what people would think if you told them some of the things that run through your head'? How would they react to your wildest dreams: hecoming a rock star, inventin!! a cure for cancer. or even running for president? Instead of running the risk of having them look at you like you're cra;v. you say to yourself. 'Til just he cool.\ Then. when you are alone. an onrush of memories things that have happened to you. things you have seen happen to others. and your reactions to everyday social pressures cn!!ulf your mind. Your reaction is the need to talk to ( ontinucd on Page (' The Black Weekend got off to a rousing start on April II th. as the Black Student Alliance of Union ollege presented in concert, Donald Byrd and the Blackbyrds. Memorial Chapel was jammed to the hilt as the show was opened by a group known as God's Children. The very talented group was led by Union CoUege's own, Santi Wi·lson De13riano. The seven man jau group which featured a mystery guest(?) more than adequately set the stage for the rest of the evening. ln my opinion, upon attending musical concerts. if the opening act is dynamite, the main group usually doesn't have the explosive power of a firecracker. However, this was not the case on Friday night. Where God's Children left the audience at a fever pitch, Donald Bvrd and the Blackbyrds sent the . crowd into terminal shuck. The musicians under the guidance of leader-spokesman Donald Byrd, are currently enrolled in Howard U nivcrsity's School of Music where they all maintain a grade point average of B or better. The talented entourage played selections from their first album, \The Blackbyrds,\ and tunes from their latest album, \Flying Start!\ Their latest album, \Flying Start.\ includes the smash single, \Walking in Rhythm,\ which is currently number twelve on the R&R charts, and climbing steadily. Donald Byrd and the Blackbyrds' music possesses the inate ability of transcending all kinds of taste in the music of today. The level of success that this group will achieve IS definitely immeasurable. With the skyrocketing costs of a college education, and with the added crunch of inflation, minority applications to institutions of higher learning, were expected to decline. However, this was not the case at Union College, because minority applications to Union increased by a whopping fifty percent. There had to be a reason for this substantial ri,<.:. 'l\ Perspective sought answers from Donnell Underwood. Mr. Underwood is the Assistant Director of Admissions, and is also one of the driving forces behind this increase. There are many factors that created this nse in minority applications. Mr. Underwood stated that, \It's a myriad of different reasons. Union's growing pnpularit1 is one. There have been articles about Union in the Boston Globe and the New York Times. The recession has a lot to do with it. A lot of minrJrity students who would normally be working right now, have decided to go to college. Along with that there is a push now for engineering, Ia w, and medicine among the minority community, and so naturally, a school that has good offerings in that area is ).!oin).! to become popular.\ Another possible reason could be the extensive recruitment procedures by Union. Applicants are sought from as far west as Chicago, as far east as Boston, and as far south as Florida. There are many white students and administrators at Union who believe that there are at least one hundred Blacks here, but this is not true. At last count, there were approximately sixty Black students out of nearly two thousand. Will there ever come a dav when one hundred Blacks will \d~wn\ Union college's campus? Mr. Underwood said, \There is a possibility of it being that and more. depending on Union's taking advantage of it. Just as we increased the applicant pool this vear. we can do whatever we did this year. maybe three times as much. and increase the applicant pool three times as much for next year.\ Donnell went on to say that in the 1980's, enrollment for all students will be declining, so schools that are going to have minority students will have to attract them now. One of the difficulties that Donnell faces in recruiting Blacks to Union is the racial makeup of the college itself. Many Black and minority high school students are shocked to hear of the small percentage of Blaeks at Union, and shy away from the college. Who is actually involved in the recruitment of minorities to Union? Ct)ntran to popular belief, Donnell is the coordinator for the minority recruitment effort, and not the \minority recruitor.\ He essentially finds out what things do recruit minorities. puts them together in a package, and takes them to the minority community. Minority recruiters at Union are basically Black students, administrators, but it is also a feeling coming from the administration of the co !lege. The president, provost, and the deans, extending themselves to minorities can aid in the recruitment of Blacks. Attica Informer With regards towards setting personal goals for the increase of Blacks, Mr. Underwood feels that this is not his place. He feels that this should be the job of the administration, trustees, faculty, and students, to set numerical The New York Times reported on Sunday, April 13, that a Buffalo white woman has admitted to informing on the Attica defense team. In . a Saturday press conference, she revealed that she had become a member of the Attica Brothers Legal Defense organization and reported activities of the ABLD to the Federal Bureau of Investigation. According to the Times, an FBI spokesman said that the woman, Miss Mary Jo Cook, \has furnished information to· the Bureau on a confidential ·basis for which she was paid,\ but that, \at no time had she furnished to the FBI information on the Attica Defense.\ Miss Cook said she had been originally hired to inform on the Vietnam Veterans Against the War. The FBI said that she worked as a paid informer between June, 1973 and October, 1974. Miss Cook said that her pay was increased when she began informing on the Attica Defense. Both Attica defense lawyers and members of the VV A W were present at the news conference as counsels for Miss· Cook. With the Attica defense team, Miss Cook worked mainly on the ·jury project. The project's aim was to help the defense select a jury by polling the people in Buffalo. While with the defense team Miss Cook met Sidney L Harring, who helped to create the Jury Survey Questionnaire. The survey was used in selection of a jury for the Hill-Pernasilice trial. One of the lawyers for the Hili- Pernasilice trial was William M. Kunstler, who defended Mr. John Hill. Mr. Hill was convicted two weeks ago for the murder of a corrections officer during the 1971 prison revolt at Attica. In response to the statements by Miss Cook, Mr. Kunstler announced, according to the Times story, that \he had mailed a motion calling on State Supreme Court Justice Gibert H. King, who had tried the case in Buffalo, to hold an evidentiary hearing based on her information.\ Mr. Kunstler said, (during a separate news conference from which this part of the Times story came) that if there had been Government informer contacts on the defense, he thought that the court should dismiss the charges against Mr. goals. \I would not bring 150 to 200 Black students on campus without knowing that everybody else on campus cares enough. It is just unfair. That is why I believe the school should make the numbers commitment, because they have the responsibility to educate the student when they come.\ If Blacks and Whites on this campus are truly sincere in wanting to increase minority attendance at Union College, some type of consorted effort should be made. For those of you who have questions regarding this topic. please contact Donnell Underwood in the Admissions Office. Hill and his co-defendant, Charles Joseph Pernasilice, who was convicted of attempted assault.\ Mr. Kunstler said that, ••it's the same as Wounded Knee or Ellsberg it should be dismissed on grounds of Government misconduct.\ Miss Cook did not admit to having· informed on the Hili-Pernasilice trial, but said that she would he available to testify during any court hearing.

Page B PERSP~CTfVE, Wednesday, Apri/16, 1975 WHO WEARE Editor ..................................... Marilyn Vannessa Beet or· Cultural Editor ................................... Sadarna N. Hom! Poetess-in-Residence ............................. Aseba B. Harri! Photography Department. .................... William Collins. Edgar Duhart, Milton Smith, and Thomas Watb General Writers ........................ Gloria Jones & T. Watts Special Thanks to .......................... Donnell Underwood, Catherine Y. Smith, Jobn Arcentales, Olivette Simmons, and Olevia Becton Black History Continued from Page A Main Source: Matilede J. Zimmerman, Afro-American History (Teacher's Edition): New York State Department of Social Services, February 1969 needed a labor force, and ._.,.,uou soon hecame an market for slaves. Slavery did become big business, until Europeans began to the Americas and to experiment BLACK CARGOES with large-scale agricultural The slave trade is no~ production there. When it became universally recognized as a apparent that sugar could shameful episode in Western grown at great profit on the history. No onecan be proud that islands of the Carribean, the fate his forefathers may have helped to of several million Africans was seize millions of African men and determined. Planters could not women, stuff them into the rely upon the local Indian stinking holds of ships and sell population, which had been them into a life of hardship and decimated, or in some cases bondage in the New World. The entirely wiped out by epidemics of old rationale for African European diseases. So the enslavement derives from planters turned to Africa. ethnocentrism (Christianizing the In 1619, a pirate ship sailed heathen, etc.), or from pseudo- into the harbor of Jamestown, scientific racism. !'low that these Virginia. No one even knows the arguments are no longer popular, ship's name, although she arrived another factor is often introduced a year before the famous to mitigate the historic shame of Mayflower and bore an historic the slave trade. This is the cargo. The captain unloaded a reminder that Africans had group of twenty Africans, whom slavery before the white man the pirates had stolen from a arrived, or that greedy Africans Spanish ship bound for the West collaborated by selling their sons Indies. The history of the Black and brothers to the European man in America had begun. traders. The Africans of the Jamestown It is true that there was :;lavery group were not slaves. They were in Africa in early times. But this indentured servants. like manv slavery bears little re~emblance to white workers brought forcibly t~ the practice which developed in colonial America. In this earlv the plantation colonie~ of the period the situation was fluid. and Western Hemisphere. When an it was not vet certain that sl~verv African acquired a \slave\ it was would be~ome entrencr...:d i~ usually to increase the size of his North America. However. when family or retinue, rather than to the colonialists began to grow add another pair of hands to a cotton and tobacco. they followed labor force. Those enslaved in this the lead of the sugar planters in manner were often war prisoners, the West Indies. Sugar, cotton, criminals or orphans, for whom and tobacco could be grown most the alternativ~ might have been economically on .great plantations severe punishment or death. where large numbers of people Furthermore, these slaves had could be forced to work virtually certain rights. They usually could withour compensation. not be resold. and their living There are several reasons why conditions were not very different colonial Americans looked to from those of a free peasant. Africa and slavery to provide this It is also true that Africans sold Work force. There was a their countrymen. for bright precedent for African cloth, rum, and trinkets. In fact, enslavement. Afticans wete the slave trade certainly could experienced at agricultural work have reached such proportions and in the West Indies they had w i t h out act i v e A f ric a 0 proven their ability to survive participation. Eur.opeans were not hard work in the American themselves prepared to go far into climate. Because they were the interior· to procure their physically distinctive, a racial . human \merchandise;\ they ·argument was built up for preferred to wait on the coast for enslaving them. Once all Black the gangs of slaves to be brought men Were identified as slaves it to them. Some African rulers became very difficult for were only too eager to take bondsme~. to run away and pose aavantage of this --new as free ~Itlzens .. opportunity ft.r wealth. Other<; Colomal . legi~Iatur~s soon resisted although it was passed laws 1nsunng the dangero~s for them to do so. \perpetual servitude \ of Negr~es. Chiefs who stood in the way of Year by year the slave populatiOn the slave trade were often killed grew. In 1710 they numbered and replaced by puppets. If 50,000, and this fig~te increased necessary, European troops could ten-fold. by the time of the be called upon to invade the Revolutiona;y War. territory of a hostile chief in order Tra.nsportmg sl_aves became ~he to clear the way for trade. world s most ~rofitable enterpnse, When the Portuguese first. as the bustnessmen of New visited the West African coast in England had good reason to the fifteenth century, they ~n~Wo· The. Purita~ principle of returned with slaves. Portugal md1v1dual liberty did hot extend Black Express IS IT APATHY OR WHAT? RESPONSE: It seems logical to The performljnce of the BSA me that the members of the the night of the 12th of April, at International Students the International Students Association and the BlacR Association's 'party was one Students' Alliance should unify considered by our cluh as a sign on any and all possible levels nf apathy. or mayb,e (sp.iritu,ally, socially a.nd untogetherness. h was understood politically), Members of the two that the two organizations would organizations shaTe a common share the party together experience: we are aU essentially financially and morally. So there aliens within the confines of the was no reason why, the BSA had USA, It is most discouraging to give a .. spontaneous\ party a when events occur which work few· hours after ours had started. counter to the aim .of unity. As ·J understood it, it was Events, unfortunately, helped to mentioned to me that the partY cause the present unpleasant held at Hickok House would have situation. been .given after the'Gems of Tlte The ISA planned a party that Future would've terininatt::d attracted a large number of UColl playing at Strauss (2:fl0 AM). But students. The problem arose instead, members of the BSA because the BSA was ex.pecLing a started .informing people of their get-together with Black s~ud'ents party, By mid.night, almost every from other ar~a sehools. That, the BSA student and their crowded room and the fact that companions had left. WHY? some people did not know when I think that instead of taking the band would be leaving caused different directions or attitudes the mass migration. we (the· Int. Stu. Asso. and the .. l woUld hope that this BSA) should work together in . occurence does not Spell the end social events. like the previous of ISA/ BSA interaction and one, to show Union Coli. our unity. We shonld expect some togetherness as minority students difficulties m the beginning, in number and nationality. especially since ISA/ BSA We (Int. · Stu. Asso.) feel cooperation is such a new concept , justified in requesting and would for us. 1 have confidence that we appreciate an answer ,or will develop a strong and explanation for the attitude taken mutually beneficial relationship. by the BSA at that social event. Thomas J. Wat~s Thank you. Co-chairman of Black Johnny Arcentales Student's Alliance Pres. of Int. Stu. Asso. Carlos Castello, Sec. John Toro, Treas. T:HIS SPACE RESER-V.EDI for hea.dline of YOUR artjcle for the next issue, . l There is a song on the charts entitled \Lonely People.\ For those of YOil who haYen't heard the song, the chorus of the tune says, \don't give Lip until yqu drink from the silver cup, and rit:le that highway in the $ky .\ I would like to dedicate tha·t line to all my bt9thers and sisters who have decided to transfer fFom Union College. I know that life at Union is no bed of roses, but think about this for a minute, Someone once told me that Union College was.rei\lly a microcosm of the teal world. At first l just laughed at this statement, but it began to make a lot of sense~ The majority of these United States is made lip of people void of color; so is Union College. Does this mean that the majority .of the White population is somewhat \cracked\' when' it come~ down to dealing with ,people of color? 1\he majority of whites at Union ar,e. 'lf th.is weird line of logic \:ittches your fancy, then running away from the situation will only .change the faces, yet the results will still slap you in the .face. The only waY to remedy this situation -is to fight, and to fight with every fiber of your being. Sure, thete are going to be times when the going will get extremely tough, but face the challenge. There was a time when I was _ elated to see a fellow .student leave this God forsaken place, 'but now all I ·can say is that the system .got rid of somebody else. lfs pathetic when you think about it. Someone also told tne that if you make it through Union, you can face anything, for the only thing worse than Union College is Hell itself. to the Black man - at least not when it interfered with a lively commerce. The merchants of Boston, Salem, Providence and other New England ports fitted out ships to sail the coasts of Africa, and they sold slaves to the Portuguese and Spanish colonies of South America as well as to their own southern neighbor~. By I 700, :\ew England lirms were dominant m this booming trade; the next fiJty years mark the heyday of the ;'\iorlhem ~lave traders, Rti/lections Only high profits and steady demand made the worthwhile, f<:1r it dangerous Contemporary records reveal the falseness of the . stereotype of docile and demoralized Afticans being led unresisting into bondage. T struggle against enslavement began in Africa, where, according to one slave trader, \the Ne.e:1roe:s fought like wild beasts\ against those who WOI!.ld take them from their homeland and families. A ~la vc trader could not relax his vigilenee once he had his captive cargo on hoard ship. Alt slaves were always confined and watched by guards, they rebelled successfully more than a hundred times on the high seas between Africa and America. Slaves who could not overcome their captors· sometimes chose death over . hondage by starving themselves or trying to jump overboard. Even after the voyage, some slaves deprived masters of their human property by the drastic measti;re of suicide. ( ontinued on Page DEADLINE The next deadline for . Perspective is Sunday, April 28. · Please subm·it all· contributions to Marilyn Becton in Hickok House, or address material to Box 216. Thank Yo11. • .. · ... ._;-_,.,,. \Superstar\ Ron Westbrook limbets up before .game. I . ~~ ~ ~~:~~ ,,.,j, r~l~~ gf;f\ ( ~~r·:·f;1 ,.., . ' 1 ,.· . . ~ I

n h d p o , k h n Page C PERSPECTIVE, Wednesday, April 16, 1975 -----~~~~------~~--~----------·~·----------~--------------~~----~~------------------------------~ \At the banquet~ (from left) Thomas W•tts, Stephen Lew.is,Lois Timms., Donnell Underwood, Gloria Jones and William Collins. Continued from Pag~ B The rebelliousness of enslaved island colony. ln an open country Africans often made it. necessary like Brazil, there was considerable for them to be \broken in'' in tbe social mixing even .during the West Indies before they were slave pedod, and racial :prejudice brought to the southern did not solidify. At the opposite plantations. This seasoning was a extreme were the Carribean very hard process, and peFhaps a plantation societies, with their third of those subjected to it died. rigid caste. system separating the The severity of this training may white planter class from the free be partly attributable to the fact mulattoe-s and the slave group' that most of these islands had the southern United States had more slaves than free whites, and its own peculiarities, and it was. a great show of strength was not the same during this early thought necessary to keep the frontier p\!riod as it became later Black majority obedient. when the plantations were fully During the three hundred years developed, and Cotton was King. of the slave trade, Africans were . The sl!ives who were bought in carried to all parts of the Western the northern states, and New Hcmi-;pherc. ln the ea:rly period England were usually domestic most of them went to the markets servants or workers on family of the West Indies. By the farms, and consequently they had eighteenth century the economy a fair chance of earning their of the sugar islands was beginning freedom within a few generations. to decline, and far more slaves The contrasts between slave were taken to Brazil, to the conditions ill various parts of the Spanish colonies of South Americas and in different types of America, or to the southern occupation should not he over- United States. (The stream was emphasited. however. ln most bndly redirected to the Carribcah places, the forced imigrant from with the cctJnomic development Africa was unmistakably a slave, of Cuba in the ninet~enth a piece of human chattel with no century.) rights in theor,y and often less in lt made some differe.nce practice. Some scholars whether a slave was sent North or (particularly Braz:ilians) have South, to a mainland or to .an ~heorized that the institution of ( ontbmed from Page A someone. so you knock on yotir friend's door. hut they don't answer. Ynu go thmugh the same process with another friend. yet the rc~ults arc the same. Then you sit back and wonder if cvcrvnnc is invnhed in a deliberate conspiracy to avoid you. You want to scream out for the world to hear, \I'm going I through changes! Somebody listen to me!\ You may not even know exactly what it is you warit to say, but you definitely want to let something out. In discussions with your friends, you frequently find they only tell you what they want you to kn(]w. You rap about money problems. school problems, everyone else's problems. hut never head problems, •cause that's just too close to home.~ So here you are. playing the game of hiding your fee.1ings, and pretending you can handle anything without any sweat. ·You've got to do away with that! Unlock the door to your head and heart. Your hang-up is being afraid to trust your feelings, but especially of being responsible for them. Your feelings, thoughts, fears and ideas are all a part of you. In fact, they are you. How long do you want to play the game? Turn off that. voice in your head that says. \The only way to he accepted is to he liked. and the only way to he liked is to be accepted.\ Another Informer Akwesasne Notes .reported, in its April/ May hsue, that the chief security officer for the American Indian Movement has revealed himself as a paid informer for the Federal Bureau of lnvt:stigation. The man, Douglas Durham, made his disclosure during a press conference after being confronted · by members of AI tv'· r>urham had hi' fir-;t contact with A I M du r in!! t h c occupation lihcration of Wounded Knee. He !Wined acce>:-. to the encampment hc<;\at!St' he was a rhot(i,?.rapher workin)! for a De:-. Moines ahcrnatiH~ ne\\,rarcr. He \\a' alsn workin)! as an undercover agent and provided lihc FBI with photowaph' of the 1\IM defen~cs at Wounded Knee. When the occupatioA cndcd. hu returned tn ()c-; Moines an~ \l~ts instructed to contact the local A'IM chapter. He did so and. with his manv talents (includinp. being a pilot) cvcntuaUy worked himself up to the position of ehief security officer 10 the na tiona! organilation. Durham. who is white, claimed to he one quarter ippewa in order to he accepted . Disclosures such as this one, movement sit triumphantly back and say: I TOLD you so. They do NOT take issue with, or violently protest, what may prove to have been a \government altempt to subvert the Constitutional nghts of those charged in the Wounded Knee takeover. Unfortunately, people have begun to accept criminal acts by the Government. (What a way to celebrate the Bicentennial Era!) The Durham experience, and that of Attica, should help to explain why members of the Black Panther Party were so easily and brutally murdered and driven underground. (But, then, some of us already knew why.) The experiences may, also explain why there have been so many arrests of sixties radicals lately. the disclosure that a member the Attica Brothers Legal ,u~ac\\\' was a paid informer for Both the Durham case, and the experience of the Attica informer should teach us that the anyone- who 's-a vaila ble-and-willing approach to progressive actions and movements in this country is inherently invalid. It is far too early in our struggle for us to be able . to accep.t anyone into our organizations without validating the loyalties of that person. We should learn that it is time to remove ourselves from the concept of romantic heroes in a romantic \revolution.\ We should begin to plan a logical, systematic rearrangement of our conditions, with the betterment of our peoples as our goal. Our environments necessitate some type of change, and the actions the government is willing to takp make our task urgent. FBI, as well, seem to have some people by surprise - \ .. \''\n\ Watergate. The sad thing the surprise is that people considered themselves \in the ovement,\ have been screaming FBI and CIA agents since early days of the Anti-war mo~ve1ment. Now. members of the .·_( : ... _: Thomas Watts You must trust yourself. Get rid of those douhts and believe in yourself. Don't let others decide your fate. Do it youl'self. Respect where otl1.ers are coming from. hut Just because they play the game. d:'oesn't mean you have to. You won't trip so hard on impressing others. when yot\ feel good about yourself. An~ ~ t·en you reach that point, you will have Santi's mystery guest soothes crowd with meilow sounds. defi rtitely grow.~. • · Marilyn V annessa Becton

l :: . ,,, Page lJ 5 senses: go beneath I.OOK AGAIN AND SEE there's much mme than what you can see in me LOOK AGAIN AND TOUCH there's much more to touch than i·ust flesh LOOK AGAIN AND HEAR there's much more to hear. if you're near LOOK AGAIN AND TASTE thene's much more to taste in life. don't let it waste LOOK AGAIN AND SMEI.I. PERSPECTIVE. Wednesc{ay, April/6, 1975 •• Only .htst Begun •• THF SWEFT FRAGRANCE OF OUR GROWING LOVE. Block H.ope? Rope Jumping Before ..... 1,2;3,4, Shine them shoes, sweep that floDr 5~6,7,8, You're shiftless, lazy, al\41ays late 9, 1(), I 1,12 You . dance real good, but how you smell But No More ..... 12,11,10,9 Fullky, Honky, Your ass is mine! 8, 7,6,5, Slave labor no more. I intend to stay alive. 4,3,2, l, If you wait for me to sltine your shoes IT-WON'T GET DONE! UTAMU With all the -excitement going on this weekend, it was extremely pleasant to sit down, relax, and enjoy a delicious meal prepared by someone else. This past Sunday, the Black Student Alliance and their invited guests, joined together at the Ramada Inn, and honored the \Black Man.\ Aseba Harris opened up the banquet with a poem entitled \The Black Man.\ After listening to the poetic talents of Ms. Harris, everyone partook in the delicious meal, which had filet- mignon as its main course. After the food had been consumed, Donnell Underwood gave a speech on the \Black Professional Man.\ Ms. Lois Timms, who beautifully organized the whole affair, closed the ceremonies with a speech about 8lad men. This was a perfect ending to one of the most fantastic Black Weekends that Union College bas ever Witnessed. I am quite sure that all who attended the function completely enjoyed themselves. Again hats off to Ms. Timms for doing such an excellent job. Gloria Vanita Jones loving you last night, was jm;t too much i find H(}W that we are two inseparable forces and a~ we joined each other in a simple dance of melody your heart heated like the drum roiJ of distant lands i know we went from the waltz1o the bump during which the thUJ!Ip. thump of my pulse increased and you. soaked in transparent beads, smiled i released a tiny sigh of satisfaction as you finally. with a last surge of power. collapsed thus we melted like butter \iinlinp: still inside then your lips met mine in I he glorious aftermath of heat and rasston and we delightfully went t hrou)!h the magic again;. . IF YOU WOULD LIKE TO SU:QSCRIBE TO . fill out tbe blank belo.w and mail itto: Perspeetive, c/o Th()mas Watts, t'oos Union St., Sch'dy, 12308. · Subscriptions are· FREE! name, __ ~~----------------- add res\------~--- ______ ..zip Black is knowing. that being called · \Br1>ther or Sister\ · does not refer to any member of a _mona~tery or convent. Black is knowing that the \Soul Train\' is not a train headed for the capitol of Korea ... And that getting on the goodfoot has nothing to do with being cripple. ~ think not think CHif:KEN MARENGO (2\1:! lbs.) frying chicke~, cut up Y4 cup flour I teaspoon salt 'l4 teaspoon pepper 2 tablespoons Wesson Oil I clove garlic, crushed 2 (8 oz.) cans. Hunt's Tomato Sauce Y2 cup chicken bo'ullion I (-4 oz.) can mushrooms, undrained Ughtly coat chicken with mixture of flour, salt, and pepper. Brown in large skillet in Wesson Oil until golden brown. Add garlic and remaining ingredients. Cover and simmer about 45 to 60 minutes until chicken is tender. Makes 4 to 5 servings Sadama N. Horns ~ t BLACK IS .••• t lbowing that there's really no • such thing as . . ~ Flesh CC)Iored Clelll'isil! r Utamu . - - - ~ - - ~·- - Black ... or midnight. jet. ebony, sienna. sepia. gold. sable, charcoaL tan. sorrel!. auburn. chestnut. hron7e. copper. cinnamon. russet. chocolate. walnut. cocoa. 0 even heige ... and many many more! WE CAN'T AI.I. LOOK ALIKE .... NOW CAN WE dreams of not to think. think why or maybe perhaps it could be think not . chains of hurden·years of hurting think not to think not relax to think not of what to think tomorrows arc written for todays yesterdays were never here think not of time wasted of minds wasted of blood tasted of dreams erased of not to think emptiness to he said b to he done to he done is to think and to think is to think not of the miseries of years in tabulation without a nation of a relation lusted with sedation think not think not think think no yes tio YES to think is t'he r;ealinllion of all that is taking riace to think not is the cultivation of another race. - •• O!J th pe nc at m 01 Li 0 cr n1 a1 st f2 \ v 0 p s ( ( f

According to .a Concord,y 11urv·ey, . Jackson's Gardens ·had a high!lr . tumull!tive index IQst term than We~teJ:'. Way to go, Webster. Vol.-104, No. 20 ··.· ~ •• HI can't sit through a ten minute sermon. Get your tickets now for the Nott Memorial Collapse. Proceeds wiD go to the Pub/restaurant. Money will not be refunded in the EVF;NT OF RENOVATION- _!low can you sit through fifty minutes of this?\ - H. E. Sheffer on v_Chem ··-· Wednesday, April 23, 1975 · ... ' Trustees Approve phot'O by Greg Cohen rfwo New rfrustees Elected The Budget and Audit Committee has voted to recommend a $45.0 tUitiOn . increase for 1976-7, bringing the cost of tuition to $3825.00. fn their most _important decision at the meeting this weekend, the trustees voted unanimously to appwve this recommendation. The increase is a result of predictions and estimations about future costs and needs of the College,. and projected tuition increases by Union's competitors such as Williams, Lafayett, and RPL to a figure of $800. The final cboice of the figure of $450 was arrived at by considering how great a raise in · tuition cost ceuld he asked without moving Union out of the middle of the price range of its competitors. Last year a similar study was done in preparation for the $300 increase for 1975-6. At that time Union stood in the middle of the competition's price range. A survey of the tuitions asked by the competition shows that Union has remained in the middle of the cost list. Concern was expressed about the effects of a tuition increase which would move Union into the Continued on Page 3 Task Force Suggests Required Participation How Do I Love . Thee ... The figure of $450 was arrived at after upper and lower limits of $300 and $800 had been set by the Committee. .In a talk witll Provost Enteman and Bruce Downsborough (chairman), both members of the ad hoc task force concerned with .. fulfilled \sense of self-identity anu purpose,\ and a preceptor program that will help the student to arrange the above two programs and give the student a \normal contact person for all aspects of the student's guidance The marriage of Carlene Harris to Dt. Thomas N. Bonner is estimated to have attracted some 700 guests to ·Memorial Chapel Saturday night. The audience consisted p.redominently of students, faculty members with wives, and staff. the couple w.rote the non- denominational service themselves. The Rev. Norman B. Johnson, a Dutch Reformed minister and chaplain-emeritus and: a Professor Emeritus of Classics at Union, performed the ceremony. The College GLee Club provided a program of cporal music for the occasion, under the direction of Prof. Hugh A. Wilson. The presidents of lJ nion's fourteen fraternities served as Jonas' Book a Succes.s SPEflAL CONCORDIENSIS TO Professor Manfred Jones, Chairman of the History Department, has collaborated with two other distinguished historians, f>rof. Francis L. Loewens-tein of Rice University and Dr. Harold D. Langley, Curator of Naval History at the Smithsonian Institute, in editing a new book on F.D.R. and Wins tori Churchill. Roosevelt and Cl;mrchill: Their Secret Wartime Correspondence is a selection of some 600 of the more than 1700 communications that passed between the leaders. Contextual reference is provided by maps of the Eruopean and Pacific Th-eaters, biographical and bibliographical information, and a chrMology keyed to the documents presented. The <;orrespondence between FDE and Churchill covers a Continl\l:d on Page 4 . .. ushers. Dr. Bonner is the son of the :late John N. Bonner, a famed Scottish soccer star. Mrs. Bonner is the daughter of George E.,Carey, who was Director of the Budget a.nd Finance Department ofthe U.S. Dept. of Defense. She is now Director of University . Relations at SUNY at Binghamton. Mrs. Bonner is a graduate of the University of New Hampshire, the school at which Dr. Bonner served for three years as President. The couple is now on honeymoon in St. Vincent and Barbados. The College's critical needs in non-compensation areas were set at $500,000, \compensation areas\ include salary payments, unemployment insurance, etc. The Committee decided that for each additional dollar of tuition, between twenty and thirty pet cent should be devoted to financial aid. Assuming two thousand students in 1976-7, a tentative figure of $300 was arrived at. One .estimate of compensation costs put the total at $650, which, when combined with the costs in non- compensation areas and the financial aid considerations, led The text of the report may be found on page 5. creating the report on Community Participation, the discussion turned to the basis upon which their report was created. It was reasoned that the objectives of the report were 1 consistent with the values of Union College .and a liberal arts co liege in general; and that the plan would provide benefit to both the College community and the students themselves. program.-' ' Status of Women Enteman and Downsborough believe that a liberal arts education at Union College should be expanded by three ·programs: a general education program in which the student is exposed to a significant amount of different types of courses and subjects, a community participation program in which the student takes responsibility and initiative in terms of community involvement in order to create more social interaction and to give that s.tudent a more The plan to institute these programs at Union College was justified in several ways by Downsborough and Enteman. First, it was reasoned that a general liberal arts education should emphasize the interdependence of intellectual and emotional growth. The individual's education should hot be limited to exposure to' many different ~ubjects; instead he should also be encouraged to develop his potential with regard to his occupational aspirations, in an academic atmosphere, for the worth of academic growth discovers a larger and more meaningful value in its social application. Community participation and the sense of commu'niiy it creates also gives the individual an identity and purpose within the social order. by JUDY DEIN General problems of all women on campus and the activities of the President's Commission on the Status of Women in particular, were discussed at an operi meeting of the Commission. The crowded meeting was held on Tuesday at noort in Strauss Lounge. The Commission of t'hritccn wocmn was set up in January; female students, faculty members, staff. maintenance and nurses are represented. The charter of the Commission calls for the group to collect information on the status of women on campus, recommend and support proposals for the improvement of present conditions, and provide a steady stream of input to President Bonner. To date, most of the Commission's work has been geared towa,rds orgamz1.ng themselves, making contacts and gathering information. At the meeting, however, the m~jor interests of each grou,p .represented was discussed. More Women Faculty The three student representatives spoke about the need for a greatly jncreased athletic fund for women's sports, more courses pertaining to women, a woman counselor in the co11nseling center, and the pressing need for more female faculty members. At present, there are six full-time female fa·culty members,. out of Continued on Page 9 In justifying the pian specifically with regard to Union College, Enteman and Downsborough claimed it was Continued on Page 10 UColl students prepa~e to m~et the nef Community SetvJee requzrement. photo by Greg Cohe11

Pagel .. ~~ . Qbtnrnr.iltmts ... ~~ . Edttors-m-chtef. .......... ~; ................ Jonathan Scheer .. J' • Peter Sobol Features Editor ................... Lee Rimsky Culture Editors .................. Mike Affinito . ·David Moskowitz Sports Editors ................. Kevin Crawford . Barb Dewey Managing Edivor .............. · Lance Travis· Copy Editor ..................... Phil Aicabes Contributing Editors ............... Judy Dein Rob Mondschein Bill Talis Business Manager .............. Bob Harleman National Advertising .............. Betsy Barnet Subscriptions .................... Shelley Gold . Lisa Tietz Darkroom Boys: Greg Coh.en, Dan McManamon, Rich GuardiaFl, Rudy Lu, Arthur Miller Staff: Bill Plaus, John Busterud, Sue Brickman, Jack Pitney, Matt Brief, Joe Friedman CONCORDlENSIS is published every Wednesday by the student body of Union College, Old Gym Hall, Schenectady, N.Y.; to which Postal Forms 3579 ar.e directed. Publications Office: The Jewish World Publications, 416 Smith St., Schenectady, N.Y.-12305 (370\5483). Entered in the Schenectady Post Office as Second Class Matter. Subscription Rate 35 cents per copy. $8.00 a yeaJ: delivered anywllere in'the United States. More Requirements? The Ad Hoc Task Force on Community Participation will present its r-eport to the All-College Senate· on Tuesday, April 29. The major recommendation of this committee will be that Union impose a \community service\ requirement for graduation. If passed by the Senate, the implications growing out of. the implementation of this .prqposal are of grave significance for the future of the College. From a practical standpoint, at least for the present, the plan will have little significa11ce. Freshman applicants like those who, in the past, were inc.liried to pursue non-academic endeavors of extraordinary creativity will certainly not be detet;red. Nor will those- considering the less than stringent guidelines proposed for meeting the mandatory requirement - who wish to engage in perhaps less stimulating projects and remain content with playing intramural softball. The major strengths of this plan are the recognition of the inadequacy of the present system of both academic and non- curricular advising and counseling available to freshmen; and the recognition of a \lack of sense of community\ on campus. Nither problem can be denied, nor can their importance be under-estimated. The committee's proposed solution to the first problem -· strengthening the advisory system by initiating a program whereby faculty precep.ters would come in closer contact with students - is an imaginative step toward realizing the goal of awakening students to the wide range of educational opportunities offered by this College. The second problem, however, cannot as easily be solved. In this respect, the imposition of a mandatory extra-curricular activity requirement deserves close scrutiny before being approved oy the Senate. Traditionally, institutions of higher learning have focused upon the intellectual growth of students by offering them access to programs designed to cultivate academic rather than social development. If accepted,. the proposal will radically alter this philosophy. Rather than directly encouraging individuals to participate in community affairs, the plan imposes mandatory requirements for such activity. Jn this sense; the proposal is not only paternalistic, but it opens the door for further regulatory reforms in an effort to \improve\ the social atmosphere of the College, perhaps even at the expense of individual free9om in both academic and social spheres. The proposal itself identifies problems which have long plagued this campus. Its recommendations will perhaps be successful in combating certain unwanted conditions. However, the College community must remain wary of regulatory controls, and keep a watchful eye on continued administrative reforms. JMS you said it well done Editors, Concordiensis: Just a note to say that I like very much what you are doing with Concordiensis. The articles have been lively, a sense of humor is evident throughout, and you are clearly digging successfully for stories that need to be brought to th~ attention of · the entire campus. Sincerely, Tom Bonner left out Editors, Concordiensis: To quote the preface to the recent \Insiders\ view of Union, \In hopes of obtaining a student's, view of the CoUege a request for a write up was sent to Concordy .. \ Who appointed the two editors- in-<:hief as the sole authors of Union's contribution to this book? Why wasn't this request forwarded to the entire student body so that we too could have an opportunity to express our opinions of Union?- . Not only was the entire student body overlooked, but additionally gross generalizations were directed to specific factions on campus while other areas were entirely overlooked. No mention . was made in reference to minority students, faculty (their publications, qualifications, and professor-student relations), the · philanthropic activities o.f fraternities including charity ,parties and financial backing for such events as the Carnegie party, flexibility of the curriculum and generally the intimate and progressive atmosphere which Union has to offer within the borders of this relatively traditi-onal institution. We do not claim ·that Union is perfect, nor is it a Utopian world of eternal happiness and bliss, but at least let's have the good as well as the . bad represented in· this national publication. Sincerely, Barbie Beck '75 Laurie Calmus '76 Jean Deely '76 Debbi Zimmerman '76 Union articulates a commitment women alone. That an invitation to co-education, women plainly · to talk with the trustees was not do not enjoy equal status within e;x.tend.ed to any ClJ;rrent the community. chairperson of the Women's In the .area of athletics, health, . Caucus or student member of the counseling, academic advising, ' President's Commission, whether women's studies, the actual an l;Jnconscious oversight or an classroom experience, Union's omission due to ignorance of the social environment, and the hiring situ'ation, points to the fact that and retention of female faculty women must be more activ-e in and other female professionals, .ma:king their concerns · known. the concerns of women are And if that means attending a systematically overlooked. Who's cocktail party as an uninvited responsibility is it to see that these guest, or running fot office in the concerns are considered? Who's student government, br responsibility is it to insure that organizing through the Women's tl:\ese concerns are V.:<)iced and Caucus, then women must be directed to those with the proper willing to take those steps if authority to act upon them? Union is ever to emerge out of ·Its It appears that that male tradition. responsibility falls unon the The Women's Caul:us women th,e!Ufielve~ ·a_rid the The Commission on · · the Status of Women not our fault Last week a pnorograph of Dean Smith appeared in Concordy with editorial comment of a personal and critical nature. It must be established that it . - was not a unanimous decision of the editorial staff · to print the caption. One of the task-f orce goals of the Quality of Student Life Committee is to \strengthen Concordiensis and impr_ove distribution.\ Dean Smith was assigned to direct these goals. Concordy's unwarranted criticism c~n only serve t0 alienate this key sourc~ of information and guidance, especially at a time when the Dean has shown that he is willing to cooperate. Our feelings that this was an injustice to Dean Smith are not intended to \white-wash or. \kiss ass\ those people in high places. Indeed, we all need a s:wift boot in the pants now and then to keep on our toes, and Cont!ordy shall never pass up an opportunity as it presents itself. However,' we hope never to degenerate into general and personal criticisms, which may undermine the contributions of our targets to the College. Lee Rimsky and Judy Dein we love it! (Editors' note: The Yale Press, publisher of the Insider's guide, asked the two Editors-In-Chief to submit their appraisals of Union College. If not desiFous of writing an essay, the Editors were instn.Jcted to ask anyone on the staff of CONCORDY to respond. We do not claim that either we, or Union, are perfect; but merely \called 'em as we saw 'em.-') overlooked My God, it's ·almost time for mid-terms! How time flies when one is having a good time. And believe it, we here at Concordy are having a great time. People are coming out all over ·with contributions, letters, articles and ideas. Why, Editors~ Concordiensis: President Bonner himself has told us (as it can be On Friday, April 18, a small read in his letter) that a sense of humor is evident in group of students, faculty and administrators were invited to our paper. enjoy cocktails, dinner, and a And, speak of the devil, Dean Smith his special Cabaret show with ·. notorious self told the editors-in-chief of Concordy, members of Union's Board of Trustees. Invitations were in a meeting at the end of winter term, that the extended to what was considered a repres..entative group of campus needed \polarization on the issues.'' At that students. yet no invitation was moment, the editors-in-chief determined to pegin extended to any current student • . member of the Women's Caucus, this new laudable trend by polanzmg the campus or t'resident's Commission on the between the people who believed that Dean Smith. Status of Women. It is not often that students are should be excepted from pokes in the ribs, and offered the opportunity to mingle those who believed that the Dean of Students must in such distinguished circles. The members of the Board of Trustees be ·poked in the ribs frequently. are probably the least visible, We expect to hear from Dean Smith sobn, least accountable and yet most powerful body involved in congratulating us on our success, and we wish to decision making for the College. assure him that no rib-poker will ever be outvoted The decision to \go coed\ was in fact a decision by the Board. That on the Concordy editorial board. was five years ago. Today, though -pes, JMS, MRA, DLM, CPO, AKC, VI 'I [ ofi in de sp pe su le1 cu of pc in th Ill Si ru gr th ra di T a! pl ac re rt b~ cc t< o: rr B n d r~ T1 a rc VI dl a c VI e t c t

not of the b.ether an the t that in a in the or men's be ps if of its us it · of has ean eed on an be m . y, . st CONCORDIENSIS, Wednesday, Apri/23, 1975 Page3 Brain By BRIAN SHOOT Rumors can be vicious. They often start with little or no basis in fact, and end with the destruction (both physically and spiritually), of countless innocent people. They prey on · the susceptibility of their victims, leaving fear and hatred in place of curiosity and guJiibility. the act of creating a rumor, of setting the potential juggernaut of misery into motion, is, therefore, one of the most deplorable acts that an individual can engage in. Similarly, the act of dispelling a rumor is undoubtedly an act· of great heroism. lt is· of course no secret that in the recent past Union has been ravaged by rumors of the most divisive and destructive sort. These rumors have turned student against student, professor against professor, and everyone against administrators. Yet, the most remarkable thing is that these rumors were in the first place believed, for the use of some common sense would be sufficient to illustrate the fallacious content of some of the rumors now making their way around campus. Below are some of the false rumors that are even now dividing the campus into hostile factions. It is hoped that these rumors can finally be dispelled, and that sanity will once more reign sqprente at Union. First, it is not true that Union will secretly convert 1111 grades ~ into the twelve point system anyway. Dean Smith's passing comment, \What they don't know won't · hurt them,\ was in reference to another matter entirely. ~rrinus Second, it is not true that Union will institute a new eight- year ~achelor's deg·ree program. While there has been 'an increasing number of\ students prolonging their stay at Union, this trend in no way represents any school policy. Third, it is not tFUe that Union will offer high school hockey stars substantial scholarships to attend Union. It is true that the Admissions Office has conducted a mailing to the Boston Bruins extolling the virtues of the small libenal a'rts college. However, it is unlikely that many of the Bruins will enroll at Union as very few .of them satisfy the admissions requirement of Long lsland · residency. Fourth, it is not true that Dunkin Donuts will discontinue• the custard-filled doughnut, In , fact, Dunkin Donuts will very shortly introduce the custard- filled thermos. Those students who have been needlessly and thoughtlessly harrassing the D D management, particularly the self- proclaimed .. Avenger\ whose frequent phone calls .of the most vulgar sort have . been a disgrace to Union, can now stop. Fifth. it is not true that the cost per unit of credit at Union will double over the next three years. It is true that the required number of credits for graduation will double over the next three years. Finally, there is a vicious ru\mor that J. Edgar Hoover did not die, but instead became an undercover agent for the Schenectady Vice Squad. This rumor has been fueled by reported observations of Mr. Hoover in the area. For once and for all, Mr. Hoover is Dave Gordon can be seen on duty at the Union St. Friendly's, . juggling sugar cones, Fribbles, and Friendly Franks. What will students be driven to do to pay the new tuition increase? definitely and unequivocally dead. Those students who thought they saw Mr. Hoover actually saw Clem Far.rkus, a free-lance plumber and a J. Edgar Hoover look-alike .. In the future, any student who thinks he has seen Mr. Hoover should realize that he has probably seen Clem Farrkus. The sure-fire test of distinguishing Farrkus from Hoover is that Farrkus talks with a strong Southern accent; Hoover, due to his recent death, does not talk at all. We deplore these malicious and damaging rumors !!-Od hope that the rumor-mengers who have perpetuated them get their just desserts. In addition, we ask students in the future to examine hearsay more critically before passing it on as fact .. Remember: everything you've heard is (absolutely un) true. On Half '1' · · c· u · . u1 t1on osts .it.tse Continued from Page 1 more expensive end of the scale in terms of student quality and ability of many students to absorb· another increase. Suggestions of national a1. •• mtion to Union had· . begun to work and .. Union must be ready to deliver with high quality on--campus programs and 1975-76 Tuition· Charges 1. Sarah Lawrence $4190 3922 3900 3885 3775 3738 3725 3600 3590 3550 3537 3525 3506 3450 3385 2. Brown 3. frinceton 4. Wesl~yan 5. Cornell 6. Columbia 7. Amherst 8. Skidmore 9. R.P.I. 10. Barnard ll. Colgate 12. Rochester 13. Williams 14. Hartwick 15. Bowdoin 16. UNIOI\J 17. Bucknell 18. Kenyon 19. Smith 20. Wellesley 21. Hamilton 22. Lafayette 23. Hobart 24. Denison 25. Vassar other sources of income to take the burden off of tuition, such as the Annual Fund or endowment income, were considered not viable in the view of current economic uncertainties. A figure of $450 was f:?Uggested with the view that Union must ensure _good employee morale in the light of the poor prospects for enrollment by l9SO\ at Which time Union must have its program in top shape to attract students. It was also noted that President Bonner's campaign to draw 3375 3359 3356 3355 3350 332~ 3300 3290 3285 3275 faculty and staff with decent morale, or the public relations programs will be seen as a sham, and backlash will follow.'' The point was also made that an increase of $450 asked now, if found necessary, could later lead to an announcement of a decrease in tuition; approval of a tuition increase, on the other hand, which turned out not to suffice would lead to a later notice of a further increase. The Committee viewed this as potentially detrimental. Empty Cups ------------By R.B. THAU The most unfortunate and tragic development in American college fife of the seventies has been the lapse into unabashed and cynical apathy which now plagues both universities and small college~ throughout the nation. Although Union has escaped the financial straits that are causing many schools to close, we have not been fortunate enough to elude the plague .of negativism that has retarded our educational process. . Granted, it is easy to sit back and complain about the faults of this institution and criticize the administration or the faculty for non-relevant education or the dearth of social activities. The solution, however, lies more in the hands .·of students than in those .of anyone else. It is the student body that can more accurately enumerate the problems, propose suggestions and solutions with more insight, and more diligently work towards the desired ends. The acceptance of failure or inadequacy also lies with the student body, because the College is our institution, created to serve our hopes and aspirations, and responsive to our desires. To be complacent in a system controlled by trustees and administrators who are out of touch with the mainstream of student thought is to be satisfied with a system that will not respond to our needs. Within each -of us lies the ability to perceive that which is failing, that which is vestigial, and that which merits renovation and improvement. We also have the talent and the capability to extirpate the retarding factors and replace them with our own innovations designed to make this College the consummate educational experience. But what is lacking in the student body is the catalyst that will initiate the change. The key ingredient is an effective effort to attain the goals we set. This is sorely missing; without it, all our plans and hopes are useless. The attitude of letting someone else deal with one's own illness when one is of equal competence ···,;· 1breeds the apathy that only exacerbates what deterioration has already set in. The student body at Union is too resourceful and too intelligent to be victimized by its own complacency. We have outlined the schoors inadequacies and assigned task forces to examine viable alternatives. But these investigations merely publicize the problems; they do not solve them. What is left unscathed is the root l'G~~~~~~~~~~;5~~l25i~~~;;~;;~~;\; of th~ disintegration of the · College community into apathetic man reads Concordy? The popular man-. cliques. We are fortunate enough The man who makes memorable contributions to to have the capacity for change in society. FACT: More people read Concordy than our own hands and need only t dfi Ch A A h l vo e or ester . rt ur. h t b M'k M k comp ement it with the effort to p o o y 1 e ar s achieve the goals we set.

Page4 CONCORDIENSIS, Wednesday, April-23, 1975 Jackson's Gardens: Union's idyllic arboreal retreat b MIKE AFFIN 0 seed to make his garden all he . Y IT supposed. it could be. One ~f his .. Dyspepsia, my dear professor, most frequent correspondents was can 'be conquered with flowers,\ Maria Edgeworth. She liv~d~ in, philosophised Dr. Eliphalet Nott England and on many occasions as he gave freely of his wisdom to \exchanged seeds with the Professor Isaac Jackson. \Take Captain.\• aU that low ground, yonder, Slo\Wly d1e garden grew anti! it Jackson and make it your garden. reached its present size of 27 Twenty years ago, in 1813, &cres. 'It is a veritable lexicon of Ramee, the architect who planned Northeastern_ perennials bounded these buildings, proposed a by hircllAined paths with open garden there athwart Hans plots of grass and shrubbery; the Groot's Kill, and now in your groun(Js are traversed by Hans spare time you can· realize the Groot's Kin, \the brook tbat designand,mostimportant,coine bounds through Union's out with a sound digestion.\ ,grounds.'\' .. The seclusion and In the spring of 1830 Dr. quiet of the garden and the Jackson began work in his garden carefully laid out walks shaded by in hopes that he might mend his the overhanging foliage gave it, maladjusted visceral tract. While -too, a reputation as a t:ysting Jackson was working one day Dr. ,place~ which it still enjoys;• since Nott happened by, and as he was the .garden is \much frequtmted watching Jackson work by students who frolick and study commented to him, \You are d h h c • un er I e. eavy ,obaged trees.\ doing fine work Doctor; go ahead In the eavly days of the College, and use all the ground you want.\ before we had acquired the With this encouragement Jackson equiplllent and technical displays gradually enlarged and developed necessary to properly impress what was to be a small private visitors to the campus, Presid~nt plot into one of the ·most · N ott would often call on Jackson cherished of Union College's to give tours througb. his properties, a widely acclaimed magnificent garden. and highly diverse garden of After Capt. Jack's dea:th in perennials, \Jackson's Garden.\ 1877 the trustees requested that \Captain Jack\ as he was Mrs. \Benedict Jackson's affectionately called by his daughter, assume the supervision students due to his military of the garden, and apprepriated propensities, (He drilled a corp of money t<> care for and maintain cadets for many years on the the serene haven. She continued~ broad College green, and even in this capacity until her ,death in had a trench dug in the garden for 1925, all<>wing none df the shrttbs training purposes, the remnants and plants associated directly of which are still visible from the with her father to be remo>'ed. hillside in the garden) was of necessity an old-time naturalist. Garden's Changes under Van The inavailability of mail\()rder Voast houses and plant nurseries, forced the Captain 1o establish many contacts throughout the country and abroad in order that he might procure the necessary plants and Following Mrs. Benedicts d~th the garden went through a fairly extensive replanting owing to the age of many of the shrubs wb.ich she had beld so dear. In chaFge of this operation w~s Mr. J obn C. Van Yoast of the class of 1887. In an ambitious undertaking he had the walks of the garden trimmed and resurfaced; new :beds of flowers were laid ·out and new shrubs were planted. Also in 1925 the ironwork gateway leading into the garden was erected \to commemorate tbe one hundJJedth anniversary of the founding at Union College of Kappa Alpha, the first social Greek letter fraternity.\ The gateway was dedicated at the centennial exercises of K.A. conducted at Union. After Van Yoast's death, A.D. Phi; financed the development of the evergreen plot as a memorial to him and D.Phi contributed the sundial near the rose garden. Peacocks Grace the Grounds The next major contribution to the garden was realized in June of 1938, when Dr. Caryl Haskins donated two white peacocks .. These lovely creatures graced the garden with their majestic presence until December '38, when they were murdered by a stray dog. Fortunately, the peacocks, left behind six eggs. Dr. Haskins sent two of these eggs to a Harvard Laboratory for - incubation; Mr. Henry Kahn, the gardener, took the other four home where he neatly deposited them under his prize Rhode Island Red Hen. The back.to- nature methods won out, as three of the heO.:S eggs hatched but none of the incubated ones did. In June of 1'940 the peacocks were placed in the garden, · _ · The 1 policy of the Administration seems to be one of upkeep and general maintenance of the garden. Dick Laniewski has been assigned the job of caring for the garden and the greenhouse. He works under .. . the direction of the Maintenance Department and is the only full- time employee assigned to the task of maintaining Jackson's Garden,. · Cap'n Jack, founder ofJackson's Gardens Churchill Book Continued from Pa~ l range of issues, from aid to Britain early in the war to the division between western heads of state and Stalin. ,. The book has been published simultaneously in three nations by Saturday Review Press/ E.P. Dutton and Co. in New York; by Clarke Irwin and Co., Ltd. in Canada; and by Barrie and Jenkins in London. Critical acclaim for the 800-· page work has already been forthcoming. The U.S. Navy's official World War Il historian, Samuel Eliot Morison, has called it \a significant contribution to the high strategy of World. War ; ' 11.. .. \ Pulitzer Prize-winner lii-of. J.M. Burns of Williams College, a biographer of FOR, said that the communications presented in the . new book .. capture the essence of the endlessly fascinating and historically portentous partnership between two military leaders who happen to be sparkling personalities\. Roosevelt and Churchill lias been chosen as next month's selection by ·two -specialized organizations, The History Book Club and the Library of Political International Affairs. It will be Book-of-the-Month· Club's alternate selection for June. Last to interview DeSica Dr. Jackson, an eminent mathematician, w~th his dog Cosine. WRUC in the Jinch Problems are afoot with WRUC going FM. With the change to FM comes the need for new equipment, additional facilities, and more money. This financial requirement might put the proposed change in serious jeopardy. According to David Eilbott, Secretary of the Student Tax Committee, the granting of WR UC's requested $25,000increase would be \almost impossible,\ This evaluation was based on the fact that the Student Tax Committee is barely managing to break even this current year. Eilbott warns that the addition of several committees this year, combined with the increase to be proposed by WRUC, will eliminate the possibilit~ of the Student Tax Committee giving each committee the money it needs \without taking drastic measures-\ In anticipation of this dilemma, Eilbott wrote a letter to President Bonner on behalf of the Student Tax Committee, requesting tbat paying VVR UC's budget for next year be removed from the Committee's responsibilities. Bonner denied the request and could only offer the following advice: \I think it is very importan.t that you (Eilbott) and the Cotnntittee sit down seriously · with tbe staff of WR U C as well as to do further ~market research' on the student groups that are competillg for funding from the Jax Committee.\ . - finds frustation, bitterness Paolo Ceratto, a senior Psychology-English major at Union, was the fortunate recipient of what proved to be the last interviews given by the great Italian film director Vittorio De Sica. The interviews were held last summer in Rome, and were arranged by the director's son, Manuel. a friend of Paolo's. De Sica has won several major film awards and is considered one of the central figures in the postwar 1 tali an cinema renaissance. He has employed · several styles effectively throughout his career, ranging from the neo-realism of his The Bicycle Thief (1949), to the satire of Miracle in Milan (1951), to the sophisticated historical drama of The Gard~n of the Finzi·Continis. Paolo, who has a great interest in film and is presently doing his thesis on Fellini's 8% · for Professor Gado, was able to discuss various aspects of the modern film industry with the director. In general, De Sica expressed an attitud~of disappointment and frustration. H~s unhappiness stemmed from a fear of the materiali!lm of modern life. The theme of money seemed to dominate his conversation; he bem<Janed the increasing influence in the film establishment by CARY SIEGEL of men only interested in making a profit. He thought that perhaps a ·more structured film industry, with government-subsidized pl'ojects, might help the situation. De Sica claimed that private producers could not afford to make tasteful films. He attacked modern audiences for their desire for immediate· ·gratification and their lack ·of art is tic discrimination. The director was highly critical of the .. ingredient\ type of filtn, containing sensational topics that would surely prove fina.ncially remunerative. Singled out for censure were sex and horror films (especially - The Exorcist), and westerns. In the context of his own films, De Sica saw himself as a ''master of recitation,'' by which a more theatrical representation of reality is attempted. He claimed tha:t his directing was not greatly influenced by the technical tricks of film-making. Instead, he laid a stress on the concept of the dramatic illusion. De Sica bad always been interested in acting and the theatre. He began his career by joining a · R ussiart troupe in the early part of the century, and he has appeared as an actor in approximately 160 films. His experience led him to maintain a \forma}.\ relationship with his actors; He wou1d tell them. p.recisely how they were supposed to feel and behave when playing a particular role. The question of actors and acting, however, prevented De Sica· from ever starting his final film project. The work was to be called \Le Novelle della Pescara,\ and the director was eager to begin shooting. But he came into conflict with the film company that was backing the project because he did not want to use professional actors. He maintained that he did not need big stars for his films (and indeed used non-professionals to great advantage in The Bicycle ThieO. De Sica wanted no famous performers because audiences usually come with pre~formed stereotypes concerning them, and .the actors have often established their own acting personalities and thus resist direction. They also cost too much, he said. But the producers claimed that the film could not he successful without big stars and it was never begun. Despite his own problems with the present film establishment, De Sica thought there were several modern directors that have managed to make good films. Among these he · included Continued on Page l 0 de, re~ In< n cle 1m ap de im HI th co In! an so co co .th cu fo id fo sh oi sh Cl o: e> di ir pl C1 e1 P' 01 e' ir H a· tl s1 IS \\ a a s· .h r s a I p a c r t e a t s t (

he, of be b.'s ed be en be ,,. to ny nd ies ful ith ral CONCOR'.JJI'ENSIS, Wednesday, 23,' 1975' Report of Task Force on Community Participation An academic emp·hasis in a degree program is primarily restricted to the bounds of individual effort and enterprise. The value of such an emphasis is clear; it not only stresses the importance of a disciplined approach, but also encourages the development ·of imaginative insight in problem solution. However, we think it should be the view of this College community that the worth of individual effort discovers a larger and more meaningful value in its social application. The sense of community, whether it be in the context of our own microcosm or the wider aspects of our general c'ulture, pto'(ides the touchstone for a more fulfilled sense ofself....: identity and purpose. We feel it is for this reason that Union College should emphasize the importance of community participation and should create a place for it in curriculum expectations alongside of traditional academic excellence. social structure will emphasize the necessity of imaginative contribution and aHow each individual to develo,p a sense of self-value through the process of interaction. It is this larger social affirmation which will lend individual achievement its most valuable fruits: an identity and purpose within our social order. The Community Participation Board the comm.uter during the freshman year. As an incidental benefit. this arrangement is also designed to aid in eliminating the isolation from and lack of contact with the College campus which is currently felt by many commuter students. Following the freshman year, each student will retain the same Preceptor, regardless of residence accommodations. It is expected that each Preceptor will develop a dose working relationship with his or her RA. What are the concrete dividends of a community involvement emphasis? The primary focus of a college curriculum must be upon evaluation: what a student's potential is with regard to occupational aspirations. These evaluations are usually translated in terms of academic course work. However. because a grade point average does not always measure the imaginative potential of a student, more and more attention is being directed toward the written recommendation. What is a faculty member's personal appraisal of a student? ls the student perceptive and insightful; . how well does he or she deal with random information and situations to generate a unified approach in problem resolution? In the context of this community program, each student will be asked to develop his own pattern of contribution. This may be real.ized along the more traditio~al lines of presently existing organizations. In addition, a student may require the p;uticipation of the College staff in more unique projects (i.e., teaching seminars, athletic clinics, or physical plant projects). This second phase of contribution is perhaps most important, .for it would create new social patterns knitting the College together in a proliferation of short terril · personal encounters. The ultimate effect would encourage an understanding of the student in a socia-l as well as an academic context. Consequently, recommendations ·would be more meaningful, for they would include a depth of understanding which would go beyond the scope of a purely academic emphasis. Through the combined social and academic emphasis of this program, Union College should affirm the necessity of interdependence for intellectual and emotional growth. ln this sense. the students.we attract and the wider. reputation of the College will fulfill in a realistic way the claim of individual attention in a smail college atmosphere. We will have a plan specifically designed to capitalize upon the interaction necessary for significant human encounter. U ~ion's students will be directed and evaluated in terms of their unique self-identity. What is perhaps most important, out TYPING Reasonable Rates Fast Sen•ic:e 393-2.233 In order to oversee and maintain the policies of ' the Commupity Participat.ion Program, to administer the program, and to hold other segments of·. the community accountabi,e for their responsibilities to the program, there will be a standing College committee called the Community Participation Board. The Board shall be an arm of and responsible to the College Senate. The Community Participation Board shall have nine members, as follows: (a) The chairman or chairwoman shall be a student serving for a .ope year tenn. The responsibility for devising, maintaining and publicizing a process for selecting the chairman or chairwoman snail lie with the Dean of Students, in consultation with the Community Participation Board. (b) Three students chosen by the Student Committee on Committees. (c) Three faculty, two chosen by the Faculty Committee on Committees, and one chosen by the Board of Preceptors. (d) One administrater. (e) One staff member. The General Education f\,dvisor (Preceptor) The function of a Preceptor is to ensure that all students demonstrate exposure in both of the following areas: General Education: The Comprehensive Education Board will supply the Preceptors with a set of guidelines for General Education. Community Participation: This expo-sure emphasizes the importance of social interaction and community involvement for a more fulfilled sense of self- identity and .purpose. ( 1) Entering students will be assigned an advisor, known as a Preceptor, from a group of faculty chosen for their special knowledge, interest, experience, and concern. To assist the Preceptor in the most effective performance of his or her job, the Preceptors will have and will be encouraged to use and draw upon the resources of the Comprehensive Education Board and the Community ParticipatiQn ·Board. (2) Assignment of a student to a Preceptor will be on the basis of living units. Each Preceptor will be paired with a dormitory Resident Adviser, and the freshman living on a given RA's floor will be assigned to the respective Preceptor(s). (3) More specifically, the functions of a Preceptor are: To provide the student with continuing guidance on all aspects of his or her academic program and career. To provjde other, less specifically academic guidance as the student may desire or need,. and to be the normal contact person for all aspects of the student's guidance program. To continue. throughout the stud~nt's four years, as his or her Preceptor. . ., To provide encotlfttgement and guidance for the student to contribute to the community. (4) In determining eactl student's fulfillment of the Community Participation requirement, the Community Par- ticipation Board will rely heavily on the testim<my and satisfaction of the Preceptor that the student has met the spirit of this program_ ( S) The Preceptors, as a group, will constitute the Faculty Board of Preceptors. This Board will have the primary responsibility for maintaining an adequate number of Preceptors. This Board will also ha\e the responsibility for selecting one member . of the Community Participation Board. (6) In order to ensure that the faculty member serving as a Preceptor has the time and energy to devote to such a task, it is recognized that a system must be devised to credit the time which each faculty member spends as a Preceptor. (7) If a student project is recognized by the Community Participation· Board as exceptionally valuable and time consuming, the Board may remit n6 more than two course credits over a student's college career. Application for such remission must be made prior to the fact. Major Ad vising in the Preceptor System There need be no change in the present system of major advising. Examples of Acceptable Community Participation Structured areas of participation: Intercollegiate Athletics Student Activities Student and CoHege Governance Intramural and Recreational · Sports Unstructured areas of participation: Freshmen who are commuter students will be assigned to a Preceptor. The RA thus involved will be responsible for maintaining regular contact with Campus Beautification Community Programs (b()th the on and off campus communities) Student-led Workshops ROOM FOR RENT Located over Peter Pause Restaurant, 535 Nott St. 3 bedrooms; liVing room, bath and kitchen. $55 per month· (h~at, water., electricity included). See Peter Pause fropri~tors for Info. ---·--- rrexas instrument SR.:- 50 $ 97.95 including Tax SR-51 $179.95 includin!! Tax Call 371-4893 or Dave Proulx 346·9973 I ___,..-- Frances Fitzgerald, author of Fire in the Lake: The Vietnamese and Americans in Vietnam, which won the National Book Award in 1973, will speak on Monday, April 28 at 8:00p.m. in SS 016~ G d ,.\'1·:· I. oo · . '-.AOilnse · by JUDY DEIN \What we do find,for the most part, is that the students who seek counseling are people who are going through a particularly difficult phase of their lives - a phase in whi~h psychological needs are particularly acute, and at which theraputic intervention is apt to be particularly constructive. For example, most students have, for the first time, made a major break with home and family. They are experimenting wit/; a new sense of .independence of self· sufficiency. They have to make major decisions - about courses to be taken and the vocation to be pursued; about their sexual adjustment and interpersonal relationships in general; about political and ethical values; and ultimately, about the kind of person one is to be. And, all of this at a time when there are no longer any established and agreed-upon guideposts. Nothing is stable or secure.\ from report by T.im Dowling on Counseling the Center The Counseling Center Newest Lunch 715 ALBANY ST. The oldest lunch in the area. More than SO years we sene First . Prize hot do&s with tbe original fmous sauee. Also different special dinners everyday. We are open 7 days • week - weekend till 4. Visit Newest Lillich. Good olace to E.at- • in Wells House is open to all students and is entirely confidential. According to Dr. Tim Dowling, a counselor . there along with Don Spring, a,nd a female .graduate student from Albany, who. works part time, no ·~ecords are kept, RA's are not notified about students on their floor visiting the Center, · and students are not at all penalized for attending the Center. The Counseling Center is \a place where students may feel free to express themselves, all of themselves - good and bad without fear of being judged, rated, evaluated.\ Types of Problems There is no way to classify the types of problems students come to talk about. Basically, Dr. Dowling feels that the college years are always years of self questioning and doubt, and the instability of the 1970's only increases inner insecurities. He statt;.d that approximately 50% of .the students who visit the center come. for only one to five visits, 20% come ten tif!1es and 30% , Continued on Page 9 JOBS in SOCIAL CHANGE For Summer or Schooi Year New 320 page mdepth guide to 175 major Wash, DC publ1c interest groups & their 1nternsh1p programs. Also five proposed 1nnovat1VC soc1al projects 1ncluding a revolutiOnary new town plan Immediate ~h1pmt'nf Send $1.50 to SE R Foundation. 3416 S.1nsom 51, Phila, Pa. 19104 Attn Ray Choka 12151 382 2986 An Astronomical Boutique Gift Shop 156 Jay St. Scheaect;dy Incenses • OilS • Candles !Ucords • Jew.!IJJ. • Posters Leather Goods • C'l01thin2 • Hats ·l.arce S4!1ection of Pipes and Paprrs !\!any Other AccessOI'ies Desi~ned to Suit The Mind And Soul

Bill Katz as Dr. Gibbs in the Mountebanks production ()f Our Town, a play, by Thornton Wilder .. Our Town will be presented May 2, 3, 4, 7, 8 and 9, 1975 at 8:00p.m. and May 10, 1975 at 2:00p.m. in the Nott Memorial Theatre. 23, 1975 Wakeman's \A.rthur\ fails by DAVID MOSKOWITZ Followers of the Yes group probably didn't like Rick Wakeman's first two solo albums. They probably thought the albums were too pretentious, too camp - just plain too corny for such lovers of serious rock. With his new colossus, \The Myths and Legends of King Arthur and the Knight& of the Round! Table,\ Wakemar not only .Joses his remaining Yes fans, but manages to be downright obnoxious. What can be said about musical suicide? \King Arthur. . .\ hits one front the onset as somewhat pretentious, coming complete with nifty lyrics (printed tL· look like Olde English), moody jacket :photos, resurrected woodcuts of Arthur, 'colorful' 12-page booklet, two choirs, one 48-· member orchestra, and a rock group. (I felt cheated that my Rick Wakeman iron-on patch and' decoder were m1ssmg. .) Throughout, if one word can be used to describe the album, it is 'excess.' Apparently, these pseudo- artistic u'rges of Wakeman have long been stifled. Back in his Strawbs' days, Rick dazzled with craftsman-like, imaginative use of the newly perfected electronic synthesizer. His keyboard prowess was coveted by many, especially the up-anq-coming progressive, 'serious' music Yes .group, After Wakeman hitched up with Yes, his growing 'please-the- crowd' rowdiness (both on and off ·the keyboard) was a constant source of disagreement with Yes leader Jon Anderson. When Wakeman finally gave up trying to fit into the Yes model he went out on his own, determined to do what he had always been prevented from doing: creating the ultimate musical· spectacle. Hence \The Six Wives of Henry the Eighth,\ \Journey. to the Center of the Earth,\ and now \King A·rthur.\ Wakeman is apparently trying to Jog the highlights of Western society ... a rather immodest proposal. \King Arthur\ presents. :the listener with disjointed snippets of several legends about good old Arthur. The story of the Sword in the Stone is represented, as are tales of Sir Lancelot, Sir Galahad, Lady Guinevere, and Merlin the Magician. Tying these together is a gran<Jiose theme which is, represented in several d'iverst'; styles. In .such a grand undertaking, Wakeman realized that he would need an orchestra, choirs, and rock groups to fill in the instruments and voices he could not produce himself. The vocalists he chose, Ashley Holt and Gary Hopkins, are simp.J;y terrible, though; they are faltering and extremely erratic. Wakeman entrusted himself with lyric· writing, a task he had better relegate to others in the future, as witnessed by \Lure the black knight from his lair f Fight and kill the evil -!\an/Rid his evil from our land,'' Glee Club to Perform \King David\ The general result of all this pomp is a pretentious failure. The lead cut, ''Arthur,\ begins with the narrator reading the inscnpt10n on Excalibur the Sword. Wakeman's main theme· comes in and then switches from style to style. All of this is quite good, especially when Wakeman settles down to playing what he plays best - the synthesizer. The theme is presented over and over before ··the choir and orchestra come in (cymbals and all), leading to an ear-shattering finale. \Lady of the Lake,\ sung a capella by the Nottingham Festival Vocal Group manages to sound like a. Biblical psalm. Guinevere's catchy melody is ruined by the foggy, warbled vocals. Wakeman takes over before it is too late with . some sizzling synthesizer improvisation. . ' The Union College Glee Club will join forces with the Wheaton College Glee Club for a performance of Arthur Honegger's oratorio, King David ( 1921 orchestration), on Saturday evening, May '3rd,. at 8: 15 in Memarial Chapel. The concert, which should prove to be one of the finest that the Glee Club has 'brougb.t to. the Schenectady area, will be the second in a series of Idol Despite rumors and other nasty insinuations to the contrary, both the Idol and the Idol workshop are still alive and thrashing away. Although somewhat belated, two issues are right now rolling around in the presses; one should be out in a week or so, and with a little luck and some well-placed bludgeoning the Competition Issue should be ready by the first week in June. The purpose here, at this late date, is to coerce all those with any inclinations, aspirations, or pretensions of a literary nature to come out of the closet and into our greedy little mitts, where you will be transformed overnight into best-selling novelists and poets. Just like us. We are (still) holding workshop meetings, with a slightly revamped format, at 8:00 p.m. on Tuesdays in Strauss Lounge, and would like to see some more recruits offering and rece1vmg advice, constructive criticism, flattery, and the like. If you feel intimidated by the thought of a workshop format, you really shouldn't; the literary scene at Union is hardly so dazzling that any of us are in a position to be terribly. arrogant about the works of others. · Although this year's• two issues are now more or less under control, anyone interested in layout, production, and other such nonsense - either for this year or next - should try to make the next meeting. Gr~phics of any kind are also desperately needed. If you are interested in any of the areas mentioned above and have any questions, contact Lynn Wintress (370-M78), Nina Sichel (Smith House), or Sam ·Hughes (377~7107) . . . ,. ~ \' -. . three. The same concert will also be performed by the two groups ·in Boston the preceding week- end, and in Lincoln Center's Alice Tully Hall, New York City~ on Wednesday evening, May 7th. Soloists for the performance include Carol Randles. as . the Witch' of Endor; Steven Cole, tenor; and Ellalou Dimmock, soprano. Edward Dahlstedt will narrate the Honegger work, which will be performed under the direction of Hugh Allen Wilson. The combined Glee Clubs will also sing Paul Hindemith's Six Chansons under the 'baton of Wheaton's director, Charles Fassett. Carol Randles has soloed for the Union singers on several previous occasions. Her most notable performance with the Union Glee Club was in a 1973 concert of King David, when ·she received the following comment from Kite: \Carol Randles' Witch of Endor was simply fantastic.\ Mrs. Randles is on the faculty of Emma Willard School and the College of St. Rose. Soprano Ellalou Dimmock is a Professor of Music Performall'Ce at Wheaton College. She appears frequently in the poston area as soloist for many groups, inc~~:~_ding the Boston Pops Orchestra. Tenor Steven Cole is a 1971 graduate of Union College. As a recipient of the Thomas J. Watson Traveling Fellowship, he spent two ·years· studying under Pierre Bernac in Paris and Arnold Rose at• Morley College, London. He has sung with the Boston Symphony, and is currently working out of New York City. Where Wakeman is at his· best is .. Merlin the Magician.'' Here, chair, orchestra, Mssrs. Holt ahd Hopkins, and lyrics are used sparingly. This frees Wakeman to play electric piano, Moog, clavichord, ad infinitum. The sound is reminiscent of his Yes years, although the bass is much less emphasized. The album's highlight appears near ••Merlin's\ end, where Wakeman double (triple?)-tracks some honky-tonk piano. Hugh Allen Wilson is well- known throughout the area for his many well-received recitals. He has _previously directed the Union/Wheaton group in King David, and received the following accolades from Kite: \Wilson achieved a rare triumph of professional exactitude coupled with that indefinable quality that makes music come to life. The singers always h,ad poise, sheen, and a splendid lyrical capacity ... a remarkable performa~ee.\ Union students will be admitted to the concert free with ID's. Anyone interested in reading the College Government proposal can find a copy at the reference· desk in the Library. The album's end exemplifies its major shottcornings. Lyrically we hear: ••oone are the days of the knights/Of the Round Table and fights.\ (of the Round Table and fights??) Apparently, Wakeman is writing words to the tune of ••jf it rhymes, ase it.\ As the choir and orchestra howl in the background, the narrator gives us a travelog-like history lesson, and we all sink in a miasma .of overproduction. What Wakeman has. done is ·an attempt far beyond his musical skills. The work's grandeur is almost a joke, especially if the lyrics are paid attention to. For a better understanding of the story of King Arthur, stick to Walt Disney. One thousand dollars will be awarded as grand prize in the First Annual Poetry Competition sponsored by World of Poetry. Poems of all subjects and styles are eligible to win the grand prize or any of fifty other cash or merchandise awards. In addition to a prize, each . winning poem will be included · in the prestigious World of · Poetry Anthology. The contest will: be judged by an independent panel of the Chap;ural Poetry S~ciety. Rules and official entry forms are available by writing to World of Poetry, 801 Portola Drive, Suite 2ll, San Francisco; California 94127. The contest closes June 30, 1975. f< ... f< tl p 0 tl t I t 1

of ld in re is is d . CONCORDIENSIS, Wednesday, Apri/23, 1975 Movies~· Falsehoods o+ war probed by JACK :PITNEY Oriental doesn't place the same and Bert Schneider savagely An ex-POW describes Vietnatn high value on life as a Westerner. attack the false assumptioqs and for some gradeNschool students: For them, life is plentiful, life is cultural stereotypes that helped \It would be very pretty except cheap,\ lead us to war. If men like for the people. ihe people over · These comments come from Westmoreland seem foolish and there are vecy backward and very Hearts and Minds; the Academy- insensitive in this film, it's not primitive and they make a mess Award-winning documentary on because their remarks have been out of ,everything.\ U.S. involvement in Vietnam. ta·ken out of context; it's because General Westmoreland explaips Using o'ld film clips and recent their rema~ks have beert put into the Eastern world-view; \The interviews, producers Peter Davis context. Terms li'ke •'surgical .-----~--~~----'---~-~~~---'---~---strike\ and \free~fire zone\ sound pretty cruel when you look at bleeding children arid charred corpses. Social Chatter . April27(This Sunday Afternoon Outsid'e Concert) starting at • 1:30p.m. in Library Plaza. If there is bad weather the concert · will he postponed to that evening at 9:00 .p.m. in the Chapel. All is free! Two bands will perform at this outdoor fun fest: ; one Bluegrass -·. Country Western and the other funky ·. Rhythm· and Blues. Beer or Booze wil.l be served. (Pra,y for · .good weather!!) May 2,3(Friday and Saturday)Tbe Coffeehouse of the Year!:! Yea :Sir, Yea Si:r: The Union College Social Committee in .· conjunction with the Coffeehouse present a special TWO NIGHt Coffeehouse featuring the famed JIMMY HANNA.· A true One Man Band.. He plays the guitar, organ, bass,drums, cymbals, and tambourine ·an at the same time. There will be a FULL BAR with tWo bartenders. Admission to this Social Committee-C<:,ffeehouse brainstorm is $ 1.00 ~ · Union J.D. must be shown. [The EX Clambake Benefit will be held during the day on May 3.] May 9;,1.0 Parents Weekend ..... COUNT BASIE concert. May 16,-7 Open to all- Various fraternity parties. May 24 CHICK COREA - RETURN TO FOREVER (including STANLEY CLARK:E, LENNY WHITE and AL DiMEOLA) The lead-in act for this amazing performance is Hamilton-Bates and the Blue Flarnes. The festivities begin at . 9:00 p.m. in Memorial Chapel. CARNIVAL WEEKEND - May 30-31 . Davis ai1d Schneider attribute our messianic notions no~ to any one group of men, but to our national character. On this point, the film fails. America's competitive spirit is .displayed via shots of fo9tball games and scenes from old war movies. This kind of treatment is exceedingly · shallow; it took a. lot more than the Vince Lombardi philosophy to get us into Vietnam. .But in portraying the more immediate causes and effects of the war, Heart~> and Minds succeeds briUiantly. Some images refuse to let go: amputees waiting impatiently for avtificial legs, AR VN soldiers torturing Vietcong suspects, GI's burning a village with cigarette lighters. The film shows that many Americans thought of the Vietnamese as \gooks\ or \dinks subhumans who deserved to be killed. No good justification of why we supported the Southern gooks against the Northern gooks, however,. is put forth. As Daniel Ellsberg says, \We weren't on the wrong side. We were the wrong side.\ Michael CoJ)lley performed in the Coffeehouse last Friday night. May 30 Dance in the Gym at 9:00 p.m. with an excellent Boogie -· Rock Band from Boston. Co.oney: uone Man Folk Festival'' -May 31 Outside Concert with SMALL FORTUNE. There will be:· Beer or Booze, popcorn, hotdogs, balloooons, volleyball, softball, and more. May 3t (Th~ 'Evening) Concert in the Ch~pel: THE FINAL NEVER: TO BE SEEN AGAIN APPEARANCE. OF CHET ARTHUR AND THE FLAMING ACES. After this amazing concert an outside movie will be given: FILMORE in Library Plaza .. OH, COULD Lll:\E BE SO SWEET The days of sing-alon.;g folic • tradition are not dead. Proof of such performance was exhibited last Friday evening when Michael Cooney sang at the Coffeehouse. Michael Cooney's publicity material lists him as a .. one man folk festival\ and he lives up to that image. Based in Lakewood, Jazz Around The Corner Every Sunday night, since the beginning of ·the year, the Ramada Inn in Schenectady has held a jazz concert in their lounge. What is odd about this is that good jazz is blowing there, and it's free~ • The Ra-mada Inn is not your typical Union College hangout; you find yourself rubbing shoulders with G.E. execs and people of the community. To be sure the price of drinks would be enough to scare any serious drinker away fro'm these digs. The Bar is reasonably comfortable, with swivel easy chairs and fetching waitresses with brief white fluffed and ruffled uniforms bringing you drinks and munchies. The waitresses are well acquainted with Union students and don't hassle you if you choose not to drink. Since January, I have bought one beer without the slightest twinge of guilt to my conscience. Some of the less desireable aspects of the program are the Vernine's Plant Room constant drone of the piped ~in music sifting through from the 1 lobby and the clicking and ringing of the. cash register, whi<,:h happens to be situated in the ·lounge. However, one finds it easy to adjust to these minor inconveniences and then can sit back and enjoy the show. The music is unpredictable, but almost always enjoyable and satisfying. Last Sunday, Cecil Payne, who plays out of New York, joined four local musicians whom he had never played with previously. This is unique among jazz people. The accompaniment included: Mike Lanonizo on the trumpet, who provided excellent solo force. A fine piano was provided by Phil Markowitz who is currently playing in Nick Brignola's group \Petrus\. He managed to coax good solos and backup work out of a piano worthy of a grammar school recital. The bass player is a regular at The Ramada Inn and his work is improving all the time. The rest .of the rhythm section was composed of Larry Jackson , adrummerwhoprovidedexcellellt backup and a strong solo portion of the program. Cecil Payne has played with · such jazz greats as Dizzy Gillespie 509 B. Union St. and Lionel Hampton .. He played 0 A&p his baritone sax with polish and .pp .. 372-6760 ~'-.. confidence. His warm and · sensitive feel made everyone sure that good music would be the result of the evenings' effort .. As ftt\»l. to be expectedr the first few .~\ ~· ... ,.,. numbers were devoted to feeling · ~ ~ out each others ·style and abilities. The very well known and respected Nick Brignola and his baritone sax sat in on the last few numbers, something very unpredictable that was the highlight of the evening. If you like jazz, you have an opportunity to hear it live, just around the corner. It is a great Way to end a weekend, or start a new week. GATES MEN APPLICA TlONS The Gatesmen, a student organization serving the Admissions Office, will be accepting applications for membership from freshmen, sophomores and juniors during the next four weeks. The application form will be available in the Admissions Office starting on April 24 and is.· returnable by Thursday, May 15 to Admissions. No late applications will be accepted .. Each application will be screened by the Gatesmen selection committee. Those applicants who pass the preliminary screening will be interviewed by a part of the committee on May 24, May 25 or May 26. The final determination for selection is based on t~the application, the i n t e r v i.e w a i1 d recommendations from the Admissions Staff. Selection is honorary; only 20% of those ·who apply are selected. For more information, contact Joel Bu¢kberg al!i FiJi~ 372..0172. by RUTH RAPPAPORT Conn.; Cooney came equipped with'two guitars, two banjos (one fretless), a concertina, jew's harp, penny whistle, and a harmonica. Not all these instruments were played, but those that were 'were handled with fine skill and talent. Cooney is a performer who shows love in the work that he does. There are no pretentions to s11rround his act. He takes his time in deciding his repertoire; . audience participation is one factor that makes or breaks his show. He loves to include the audience in his show and the audience loves to help him out in this respect. As a \singer of old songs\ Cooney has a repextoire of dozens of melodies, including sea chants, fiddle tunes for banjo, country and western, and ballads. He opened with a song about rats and the Pied Piper of Hamlin and ended with a banjo bed-time story called \The Cumberland Mountain Bear Chase\.-Between these two he sent hi~ audience all around the world of folk music. One song was about a girl mimed Lena who plays the concertina in Palestine. Another was a guitar HONORARY DEGREE NOMINATIONS Students and f~culty or staff members may submit suggestions for honorary degree recipients to the Committee · on Honarary Degrees through its chairman, Professor Joseph Board otthe Political Science Department. Suggestions should include the name of the potential recipient and a brief justification for the presentation of the degree to this person. MAKE$500 On each commission. Campus and local representatives are needed for nationwide employee search. For full Information write Sumner . Ad~ertlsincc Co •. , F.Q. Box 643, Peoria, Ill., 61601. melody used by. the Russian Army. An evening spent with Michael Cooney is an evening spent in sheer enjoyment. lfs an evening spent with foot-stomping and singing aloud: one could 'go on hearing Cooney for hours if time would allow. Monday, May 5, marks the beginning of the First Annual All~ College Chess Tournament . Matches will continue through the end of May. Competitors will be divided into two classes, novice and advanced. Preliminary· matches will be scheduled to take place in Hale House, West College Library, and Schaffer Library with the finals in the Cabaret. Applications for participation · in the tournament will be available starting Saturday, April 26, at the mailroom for students, , in departmental offices for faculty, and the Administration Building for administration and staff. Anyone interested in helping to organize the event should contact Marshall Wisoff 346-8370 or Mike Elmes at either 346-9330 or 374-6709. Presents FREE JAZZ CONCERT Charles M.cPherson alto-saxaphonist Quartet ' Sunday, April 27 8pm

'',\ \' ' I •, I ' ' Page8 CONCORDIENSJS, 'Wednesday,Aprif23; 1975. S . , N torm1n .. · · orman This is the first in a series of conversations with members of the Union faculty. Featured here is Assistant ·Professor Norman V. Walbek, of the Political Science . Department. By AUDREY ROTHCHILD In his office on the first floor of the Social Science building sits a wiry bearded man flashing peace signs. He is known variously as Stormin Norman, Normative Norm, or (more formaHy), Professor Waibel<. ln relation to the other faculty members of the .Political Science Department, Professor Walbek regards himself as a social engineer who favors the scientific collection of data in hopes of prescribing solutions to world problems. In addition to his concern with world affairs, his interests lie with the students at Union College. Norman considers the students at Union to be good people who are isolated by their sameness. The lack of diversity we experience in our small community prevents us from recognizing or even being exposed to problems. He openly expressed his like for the students here but he sadly pointed out one characteristic fault that hinders us -we are too occupation-oriented. In his dealings with the student body he found that our prime concern in academics is preparation for a job. He feels that we· have the potential to open ourselves up to the ·'problems. not only , of our small community but even we will come to realize that, .. there are other things as important as academics.\ He put ..the blame not solely on the student body, but finds fault with the system and environment in which there is extreme pressure, fewer. jobs, and an increase in the emphasis high schools make on training for jobs or professions. Professor Walbek was also asked to comment on how· he perceived the student-faculty relationship at Union. He noted that a small college aides in a better student-faculty intel:action but that Union has had a tradition of formality which stifles any real closeness. He is well aware of the difficulty students have in breaking down the barrier between educator and the student. An attempt on behalf of the · professors to demonstrate that they want to move closer to the students would help lessen the formality. Walbek added that faculty does not have much time because they devote a good part of their time to preparing lessons · and to research. He concluded that an effort by both parties will be needed if we are to exploit the benefits of a small college sueh as Union. Calhoun McBlowout, world famous cyclist, poses for our photographer after pedalling across the Atlantic in a record time of 3 years and 2 months. · those present in the world. He believes that college is a place for intellectual and personal development and he hopes that Other than teaching Political Science, what is Prof. W albek's role as a member of the College community? As a concerned individual, Prof. Walbek hopes that he can help people to think and analyze. He wants to stimulate people to develop opinions and to make them aware of their own biases. He tries to make people relate to others, to get involved with issues, to come. out of their ruts, and to end the plague of apathy. College's Property Located . ' ' Celebrators of the Shot Heard ,round the World re~el in the spoils of war. By SUSAN FINKELSTEIN prerequisite for Bio 21 (Biological Union College's property in - Community Analysis) and Bio 22. Renssalearville - its location, JField Study of Species). The use. and even the fact that the students stay at the Searle's estate college has it - seeiilS to have and work in the preserve, been kept pretty much a secret concentrating on such topics as from the Union community. ecology, soil conservation, and Union has had a long-standing environmental effects on species relationship with Renssalearville, behavior. one which probably played a Because of the condition of the major part in the donation of a· house, its use . by the College large country house to the college. community is rather restricted. At On the corner of Main Street and this time, the Searle's estate is Crocker Road, near the local used only for the summer library and post office, stands the program, and by Professor -big, rambling yellow house owned Tobiessen for his own research in. by Union College. the early part of the summer. The important aspect of the Renssalaerville property is that it's located on the outskirts of the Edmund Niles Huyck Preserve, 1200 acres of natural and reforested woodlands, fields, and most of the watershed of Ten- Mile Creek, a tributory of Catskill Creek and the Hudson River. Also included within the preserve are Lake Myosotis (100 acres), Lincoln pond (ten acres), and the Renssaleai\ville Falls. The entire preserve is open to the public. Union takesadvantaw of this opportunity through its Because of the inadequacy of fire-control devices and fire exits, it is not yet legal to house people there. There is no heating system at present, so any use at all is restricted to the summer months, and even then, states Professor Tobiessen, \it's not yet luxurious living. •• The house is in the process of being renovated rig_h.t now, but the procedure is an expensive one ... . - .-..-·- - ·- - FOR.LIQUOR. AND WINE - Try . : ~:::::::::::::::::::::::::~:::::::::: :::::::;:::: :::::::::::::;::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::=:::: :::::::::::::::: ;:::: :::::: :;: : ::;::: ::::::: :;:::: :::::::::::::::::: :::~:~ ;~ five-yea r -o I d summer program, M ·· G S taught by Professor Peter auriee . raubart a . ODS Tobiessen of Union's Biology Jake Lipstein's. --------------·nu. . , Department in conjunction with 'Serving Union For Three Generations' 166 Jay St. For Honest Service : and Good Je~elry v~-..·-\ Jerry's Place 431 Liberty St. Best Coffee in Town 374-5921 GEORGE'S MUSIC STORE Student Discounts 508 State St. Schenect~dy students and faculty from Russell Sage arid Skidmore CEJ!lege. The program, beginning in mid- August, consists of three weeks of field biology, which 1s a FERRO'S PHARMACY 4 'STUDENT DISCOUNr . 575 Nott St. 377~10 ~9309 ·464 State Stree:t :f'R4-1888 IIIRIRIIIII:I~~~~UIIIUIIIIIIi iii LIQUOR § ~ CENTER ~ - - - - =· = 5 751 Eastern Ave. 5 = = - - = . 346-5151 = - - - - !§ LOWEST PRICES . iii - - § ALLOWED § - - 5 IN KY. s-JAlE 5 - - ~lllllllillllllllllllllllllllllliUilllllllllillllll~ and the only funds being used are those specifically donated by Mrs. Searle and the Huyck Foundation for renovation purposes. The Philosophy Depart• . ment is currently conducting a third-year review of Professor Frederick Elliston. Members of the academic community who wish to contribute to the evaluation of Professor Elliston's qualifications. for reappointment are invited to communicate their remarks in writing to Professor Jan Ludwig, Depar-tment of Philosophy, Humanities Building. THE BLOODMOBILE Will be ·at Union from 11:00 · until 5:00 on Thursday, May 8 and 9:00 until 3:00 on Friday, May 9. ,Floren tine .Restaurant 108 Jay Street Enjoy our Italian-American Cuisine at Reasonable Prices Specialcy of the House - Veal Union College Students Always Welcome ~·~~~~~~~~~

Page8 CONCORDIENSJS, Wednesday, Apri/23, 1975 Stormin' Norman This is the first in a series of conversations willa members of the Union faculty. Featured here is Assistant Professor Norman V. Walbek, of the Political Science Department. By AUDREY ROTHCHILD In h1s office on the first floor of the Social Science building sits a wiry bearded man flashing peace signs. He is known variously as Stormin Norman, Normative \Jorm. or (more formally), Professor Walhek. In relation to the other faculty members of the Political Science Department, Professor Walbek regards himself as a social engineer who favors the scientific collection of data in hopes of prescribing solutions to world problems. In addition to his concern with world affairs, his interests lie with the students at Union College. Norman considers the students at Union to be good people who are isolated by their sameness. The lack of diversity we experience 1n our small community prevents us from recognizing or even being exposed to problems. we wil'l come to realize that, \there are other things as important as academics.\ He put the blame not solely on the student body, but finds fault with the system and environment in which there is extreme press1:1re, fewer jobs, and an increase in the emphasis high schools make on training for jobs or professions. Profes:sor Walbek was also asked to comment on how he perceived the student-faculty relationship at Uniofl. He noted that a small college aides in a better student-faculty interaction but that Union has had a tradition of formality which stifles any real closeness. He is weH aware of the difficulty students have in breaking down the barrier between educator and the student. An attempt on behalf of the professors to demonstrate that they want to move closer to the students would help lessen the formality. Walbek added that faculty does not have much time because they devote a good part of their time to preparing lessons and to research. He concluded that an effort by both parties will be needed if we are to exploit the benefits of a small college such as Union. Calhoun McBlowout, world famous cyclist, poses for our photographer after pedalling across the Atlantic in a record time of 3 years and 2 months. He openly expressed his like for the students here but he sadly pointed out one characteristic fault that hinders us - we are too occupation-oriented. In his dealings with the student body he found that our prime concern in academics is preparation for a job. Be feels that we have the potential to open ourselves up to the problems not only of our small community but even those present in the world. He believes that college is a place for intellectual and personal development and he hopes that Other than teaching Political Science, what is Prof. Walbek's role as a member of the College community? As a concerned individual, Prof. Walbek hopes that he can help people to think and analyze. He wants to stimulate people to develop opinions and to make them aware of their own biases. He tries to make people relate to others, to get involved with issues, to come out of their ruts, and to end the plague of apathy. College's Property Located By SUSAN FINKELSTEIN Union College's property in Renssalearville -- its location, use, and even the fact that the college has it -- seems to have been kept pretty much a secret from the Union community. Union has had a long-standing relationship with Renssalearville, one which probably played a major part in the donation of a large country house to the college. On the corner of Main Street and Crocker Road. near the local library and post office, stands the big. rambling yellow house owned by Union College. The important aspect of the Renssalaerville property is that it's located on the outskirts of the Edmund Niles Huyck Preserve, 1200 acres of natural and reforested woodlands, fields, and most of the watershed of Ten- Mile Creek, a tributory of Catskill Creek and the Hudson River. Also included within the preserve are Lake Myosotis ( 100 acres), Lincoln Pond (ten acres), and the Renssaleatville Falls. C 1 b The entire preserve is open to e e rators of the Shot Heard 'round the World revel the public. Union takes advantage in the spoils of war. of this opportunity through its {:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~:::::::::::::::::;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::·:·:::.;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: :!·i/ ~~v~.0,e 1 a r -~~ s~ ~ 7ee:s 0 ~ r o ~r:tr;; ::;: MaurJee B. Graubart IJ: Sons :;: Tobiessen of Union's Biology ;:;: . .,,, ~:~ Department in conjunction with ;:;: ;:;. students and faculty from Russell ;:;: 'Serving :~:: Sage and Skidmore College. The :;:; Union ;:;: program, beginning in mid- ;:;: For Three :::: August, consists of three weeks of :~: :~:: field biology, which IS a l:l Generations' J ··· 166 Jay St. .·. \l. ::~ ~~:~s-~;~:~;;eH MAURICE B WALTER iii ~~~:·:·: .. :·: .. :·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·i·:·:~:~:~:::::::::::;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~::::::::::::::~:=:::::=:::::=:::::::::::::::::r:::::=:::::::::::::::::::~1 Jerry's Place 431 Liberty St. Rest Coffee in Town 374-5921 GEORGE'S MUSIC STORE Student Di..,cnunh 508 State St. Schenectady FERRO'S PHARMACY 'STUDENT DISCOUNT 575 Nott St. 377-0510 346-9309 prerequisite for Bio 21 (Biological Community Analysis) and Bio 22 (Field Study of Species). The students stay at the Searle's estate and work in the preserve, concentrating on such topics as ecology. soil conservation, and environmental effects on species behavior. Because of the condition of the house. its use by the College community is rather restricted. At this time, the Searle's estate is used only for the summer program, and by Professor rohiessen for his own research in the early part of the summer. Because of the inadequacy of fire-control devices and fire exits, it is not yet legal to house people there. There is no heating system at present, so any use at all is restricted to the summer months. and even then, states Professor Tobiessen, \it's not yet luxurious living.\ The house is in the process of being renovated right now, but the procedure is an expensive one - . -. FOR LIQUOR AND WINE Try . Jake Lipstein's 464 State Street FR4dl888 :!II HI IIIII Ill 111111111111 llllllllllllllllllllllllllll ~ = ALGUR ~ = = Sl LIQUOR ~ = CENTER ~ - - - - - - - - ;; 751 Eastern A vt. § - - - - - - ;; 346-5151 ~ - - :: LOWI-SI PRICES ~ - - ;; ALLOWED ~ - - 5 1'\i\..Y.SI!\Jr: 3 - - - - - - = = illllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll 111111111111 ffi and the only funds being used are those specifically donated by Mrs. Searle and the Huyck Foundation for renovation purposes. The Philosophy Depart- ment is currently conducting a third-year review of Professor Frederick Elliston. Members of the academic community who wish to contribute to the evaluation of Professor Elliston's qualifications for reappointment are invited to communicate their remarks in writing to Professor Jan Ludwig. Department of Philosophy, Humanities Building. THE BLOODMOBILE from Will be at Union 11:00 · until 5:00 on Thursday, May 8 and 9:00 until 3:00 on Friday, May 9. Floren tine Restaurant 108 Jay Street Enjoy our Italian-American Cuisine at Reasonahle Prices Specialty of the House - Veal Union College Students A /ways Welcome

' CONCORDIENSJS, Wednesday, April 23, 1~75 ·. -Page 9 ,.- .. - .. B~ITHE.•-R . . ' lllleetiqn:s for Women's. Caucus. Elections for Women's caucus will be held Monday May 5, at 9 pm in 201 Carm~gie~ All Old and New members are eligible to ·run. Please attend the April 28th meeting for more details, We urge everyone to attend. * *' * \' ~ Any questions problems or concerns of the Presidential Commisskm on the Status of Women should be sent care of box 2516. * * * * Wanted ~- hair stylist to do creative work ·in the theater. Please call Blair Resicher at 6153 or Barry Smith at 6204. - * * * * The Students International' Meditation Society of- Union· College presents a dance program f-or a.ll .the students w)lo practice Transenderttal Meditation. The highlight of the program will be a 45 minute color film of Maharishi addressing the conference of :the AsseCiation. of Higher Education in Chicago. Also included in- the program will be a group meditatiOn. and ligh~ refreshment. ThiS. will all take place in Strauss Lounge on Monday, Apnl28., at 8:00p.m. \' * * * Dr, Mt:~v.in Gottlieb, a national Sigma Xi lecturer, will talk l:in \Ene-rgy for the Future\ at 8:15 p.m. Thursday, · May l. The lecture is open to the .public at SSOl6. * * * \' Lost: brand new denim jacket from the Chern cloak room next to SW102, Monday afternoon between 1 and 5:30 p.m. Contact Ed Foote, 352 Davidson, 372-9730. * * * * You can hear all home Union baseball games live on WRUC. The next broadcast will be on Wednesday, April 30, start~ng.at 3:05p.m.. '* * * * Union Amateur Radio Society W2UC will have its weekly meeting on Tuesday April :29 at 7:15 .p.m. in Haskin's Lab behind the Psychology Building. All interested students are urged to attend or contact Rich Barnett, 6501, or Dave Kahn, 6660. * * * * Tickets for Parents Weekend ·are now available in the Student Activities Office. Luncheon tickets are $1.00 each. Concert tickets free of charge. to students, parents, faculty and staff. * * * * Summer Jobs - High Income. American Future Systems. Car n~eded. Group interviews .at the Placement Office, April 30. Sign up by April 28. \' * * * Seniors - Friendly Ice Cream· Store ·management· • training program Interviews May 8. Sign up at the Placement Office. * * * * Prof. Micha~l Krausz of the Bryn Mawr College will · present a paper entitled \Vision Creation and Object\ to ' ·the Philosophy Seminar op. Friday, April 25, at 3:00. p.m. in HU213. Prof. Drausz is a member of the Royal Society . of Art, and has edited an anthology on the ·philosophy of R.G. Collingwood. All are welcome. Refreshments. * * * * The Biology Department's Film Seminar Series will he· showing two free color films: \Miss Goodall and Wild Chimpanzees\ and \Mountain Gorillas\ Tuesday, April 29 at 7:30 in Room N210 of the Science Center. ' * * * * · .Physics Dept. Seminar, Wed. May 21, 4:30 p.m. in room N303, Prof. Raffa Bakhru, Director ·of Nuclear Accelerator Lab, SUNY A, will speak on \Research Activity at the SUNYA Accelerator.\ Refreshments at 4:00p.m. * * * * Summer Sublet in Boston- Juntll\'l -August 31. One Bedroom,. fireplace, furnished, utilities, tile bath, 5 minutes from M.BT A, large kitchen, on Beacon St. near the Public Garden. $180/month. Call 374-1495. * * * * Attention Senior10: Cap and Gown measurements are now being taken at the Campus Store, deadline May 23, price $10.75 .plus tax. ·' ·l·. ·:. * * * * The Bloodmobile will be at Union from 11:00 until 5:00 on Thursday, M~y 8; and 9:00 until 3:00 on Friday, May 9. Free blood pressure clinic, first aid demonstration and display. At the gym. * * * * Win $1,000 as grand prize in the First Annual Poetry Competition sponsored by the World ef Poetry. For i!lformation, Write World of Poetry, 801 Portola Drive, Suite 211, San Francisco, California, 94127. Contest sloses June 30. - - -- - - Part Time Employment Male; for the Camera and Stereo Department. Must · have experience. Send resume stating qualifications to: The Townsmen Dist., Inc. 2617 HAMBURG STREET SCHENECTADY, NEW YORK U303 - -- I. I More Good Counsel Continued from Page ~ . visit for more than ten times. The Counseling Center saw . 250 students last ye~u. which is about average, percentage-wise, for other colleges. Acildemie PresstU\e When .asked if academic pressure was a major source of problems and anxieties at Union, Dowling teJ1lied that he felt that the academic pressures here .do not cau~e. but often worsen, teildencie~~ -which already exist. Some students equate academic succes with self-worth, thereby equating academic failure with failure as an individuat Pressure from parents is also not uncommon; and often increases the student's need to \succeed\ in college. the woman psychologist would be used only by female students. As a matter of fact, Dowling said that women often do not want to speak with another woman. while men do occasionally request a female counselor. There are several reasons for the need for a female counselor at the Center, but they are not directly linked with the needs of women students. First of all, the Counseling Center is short- staffed and is in definite need of more help in general. Second, a woman would add a new personality and perhaps outlook among the psychologists, and people ofeither sex, who can not relate to men counselors, could perhaps build up a rapport with a fem~le. The Counseling Center is a .confidential place where students can go to talk about problems on which they feel they need advice. Dr. Dowling said in his report on the Center. \I want· the Counseling Center to remain a kind of neutral corner, a place where any student will be listened to with patience and respect if he chooses to avail ·himself of our services.\ ~ Cops and Robbers!~ Woman Counselor bowing does not feel that all' women's problems at Union are unique in the sense that their problems run the same gamut as men's. He does, however, agree that it is hard to be a woman at Unien, simply because it is hard to be a woman in today's world. This is especially true now with the constantly changing female .\roles\. and expectations. · There is a .proposal now under consideration which calls for a full-time female counselor in the center, but it is not expected that 4/8/75 ll:SO A~ Anonymous ,phone call received that a group of males seen car.rymg the sign from either the Administration Building o~ Ad~issions. ~ffice into _Delta Upsilon. Campus Patrolman m makmg butldmg checks dtd not locate sign. Call to ~raternity on 4/9 j75 resulted in _that sign plus 4 others being turned mto Security Office. Report submitted to Dean of Students. 4/11/75 l:4Cf AM: Students complained of loud musjc, fourth floor, South College. Quiet on arrival of Campus Patrolman. · 4/14/75 10:00 PM Report on water leaking through ceilings of RQom 320 Jlnd 321, Davidsen House .. Maintenance notified and leak repaired by 10:40 PM. 4/17/75 2:25 PM Students complained of loud music at Delta Upsilon. Quieted on request of Campus Patrolman. 18:39 PM . ; Students complained of loud music at D_elta Upsilon. Quieted on request of Campus Patrolman. Commission on Women (\ontinued from Page 1 approximately 150 professors. Increasing the number of women faculty is also the major concern of_ the teaching faculty women. All the women present at the meeting felt that hiring competent women weuld help alleviate some of the sexism found on campus. All students, male and female, would see that women can be serious students and do not come to college merely to find a husband. It is also expected that increasing the number of women faculty would eliminate some of the misperceptions surrounding wom~n's capabilities held by male faculty members. N-eed for Support The need for support and encouragement of female faculty was also stressed at the meeting. Several people cited examples in Which men and women students baited and, in general, gave women professors hard times in class. Thus, as one professor pointed out,. when a woman faculty member- is said to be having trouble in the· classroom the fault does not necessarily lie ' primarily with the professor. A different evaluation of performance in class may be needed in the case of female faculty since the situation is not the same as it is for men. Steps towards bringing women students and faculty wives together socially as well as formally are also being made. Both groups are interested in planning events, lectures. workshops, and other events together. DIDYOUKNOW? A YEAR or a SEMESTER abroad may be cheaper than a YEAR or SEMESTER in the States. Why not live, .study and learn in EUROPE? ACADEMIC YEAR ABROAD 221 East 50th Street ·~N.Y. 10022. Representatives of the staff, maintenance, and nur~es had specific grievances concerned with pensioJ! benefits, pay increases, and lack of formal representation at Union. While the representatives of the administrators on campus had no specific complaints othei than the small number of female administrators, they offered their wholehearted support in any tasks undertaken by other members of the commission. Strong. Showing Several women· during the course of the meeting stated that the large turnout was very encouraging. ''It's nice to walk into a crowded room and know you're going to get support.\ A . 7:21 ALTAMONT AVE •. NO DELIVERY CHARGE __ WITH 28-CUT PIZZAS WE DELIVER - UNTIL MIDNIGHT~ Jf4.5, •. ~~~~DE'R 5 PIZZAS ~ETONE FREE major purpose of the Commission is to get women together, give them the feeling that they're going somewnere, and find mutual support systems. It was agreed by all that women of all ages have something to learn from each other, and they should all participate in helping each other grow. PRESENTS A CARLO PONTI PRODUCTION DAVID LEAN'S FILM OF BORIS PASTERNAK'S nocroR ZHi\GO IN PANAVISIO~ AND METROCOLOR Tues., AprH 2!) - 7:30 75 c Wed., April 30 • 7:30 Zorba's Restaurant 140 Jay St. Breakfast Special $1.50 2 Eggs & Baton, Ham, or Sausage & Home Fries & Coffee OR Wheat Cakes OR French Toast , Lunch Special $1.60 ~ lb. Sandwich & Soup & Coffee Dinner Steaks. Cbops, Seafood by Menu -.·

rs. • CONCORDIENS/S, Wednesday, April 23, 1975 Page 9 BLITHER Elections for Women's Caucus. Elections for Women's Caucus will be held Monday May 5, a,t 9 pm in 201 Carnagie. All Old and New members are eligible to run. Please attend the April 28th meeting for more details. We urge everyone to attend. * * * * Any questions problems or concerns of the Presidential Cornmission on the Status of Women should be sent care of box 2516. * * * * Wanted - hair stylist to do creative work in the theater. Please call Blair Resicher at 6153 or Barry Smith at 6204. * * * * The Students Intemational Meditation Society of UnioN College presents a dance program for all the students who practice Transendental Meditation. The highlight of the program will be a 45 miRute color film of Maharishi addressing the conference of the Association of Higher Education in Chicago. Also included in the program will be a group meditation and light refreshment. This. will all take place in Strauss Lounge on Monday, Apnl 28, at 8:00 p.m. * * * * Dr. Melvin GottHeb, a national Sigma Xi lecturer, will talk on \Energy for the Future\ at 8:15 p.m. Thursday, · May I. The lecture is open to the public at SSOI6. * * * * Lost: brand new denim jacket from the Chern cloak room next to S W 102, Monday afternoon between I and 5:30p.m. Contact Ed Foote, 352 Davidson, 372-9730. * * * * You can hear all home Union baseball games live on WRUC. The next broadcast will be on Wednesday, April 30, starting at 3:05 p.m. * * * * Union Amateur Radio Society W2UC will have its weekly meeting on Tuesday April 29 at 7: I 5 p.m. in Haskin's Lab behind the Psychology Building. All interested students are urged to attend or contact Rich Barnett, 650 l, or Dave Kahn, 6660. * * * * Tickets for Parents Weekend are now available in the Student Activities Office. Luncheon tickets are $1.00 each. Concert tickets free of charge to students, parents, faculty and staff. * * * * Summer Jobs - High Income. American Future Systems. Car needed. Group interviews at the Placement Office, April 30. Sign up by April 28. * * * * Seniors - Friendly Ice Cream Store management • training program Interviews May 8. Sign up at the Placement Office. * * * * Prof. Michael Krausz of the Bryn Mawr College will present a paper entitled \Vision; Creation and Object\ to the Philosophy Seminar on Friday, April 25, at 3:00 p.m. in HU213. Prof. Drausz is a member of the Royal Society of Art, and has edited an anthology on the philosophy of R.G. Collingwood. All are welcome. Refreshments. * * * * The Biology Department's Film Seminar Series will be showing two free color films: \Miss Goodall and Wild Chimpanzees\ and \Mountain Gorillas\ Tuesday, April 29 at 7:30 in Room N210 of the Science Center. * * * * Physics Dept. Seminar, Wed. May 21, 4:30 p.m. in room N303, Prof. Haffa Bakhru, Director of Nuclear Accelerator Lab. SUNY A, will speak on \Research Activity at the SUNY A Accelerator.\ Refreshments at 4:00p.m. * * * * Summer Sublet in Boston - Jun61\'l - August 31. One Bedroom, fireplace, furnished, utilities, tile bath, 5 minutes from MBT A, large kitchen, on Beacon St. near the Public Garden. $180/month. Call 374-1495. * * * * Attention Seniors: Cap and Gown measurements are now being taken at the Campus Store, deadline May 23, price $10.75 plus tax. * * * * The Bloodmobile will be at Union from 11:00 until 5:00 on Thursday, May 8, and 9:00 until 3:00 on Friday, May 9. Free blood pressure clinic, first aid demonstration and display. At the gym. * * * * Win $1,000 as grand prize in the First Annual Poetry Competition sponsored by the World of Poetry. For information, write World of Poetry, 801 Portola Drive, Suite 211, San Francisco, California, 94127. Contest closes June 30. - - - - - Part Time Employment Male; for the Camera and Stereo Department. Must have experience. Send resume stating qualifications to: The Townsmen Dist., Inc. 2617 HAMBURG STREET SCHENECTADY, NEW YORK 12303 - t I More Good Counsel Continued from Page 5 visit for more than ten times. The Counseling Center saw 250 students last year, which is about average, percentage-wise, for other colleges. Academic Pressure When asked if academic pressure was a major source of problems and anxieties at Union, Dowling replied that he felt that the academ,ic pressures here do not cause, but often worsen, tendencies· .which already exist. Some students equate academic succes with self-worth, thereby equating academic failure with failure as an individual. Pressure from parents is also not uncommon, and often increases the student's need to \succeed\ u1 college. Woman Counselor Dowing does not feel that all women's problems at Union are unique in the sense that their problems run the same gamut as men's. He does, however, agree that it is hard to be a woman at Union, simply becaase it is hard to be a woman in today's world. This is especially true now with the constantly changing female \roles\ and expectations. There is a proposal now under consideration which calls for a full-time female counselor in the center, but it is not expected that the woman psychologist would be used only by female students. As a matter of fact, Dowling said that women often do not want to speak with another woman, while men do occasionally request a female counselor. There are several reasons for the need for a female counselor at the Center, but they are not directly linked with the needs of women students. First of all, the Counseling Center is short- staffed and is in definite need of more help in general. Second, a woman would add a new personality and perhaps outlook among the psychologists, and people of either sex, who can not relate to men counselors, could perhaps build up a rapport with a fema:le. The Counseling Center is a confidential place where students can go to talk about problems on which they feel they need advice. Dr. Dowling said in his report on the Center. \I want the Counseling Center to remain a kind of neutral corner, a place where any student will be listened to with patience and respect if he chooses to avail himself of our services.\ ~Cops and Robbers!~ 4/8/75 12:50 A~ Anonym~us phone call received that a group of males seen carrymg the sign from either the Administration Building o~ Ad~issions. ?ffice into Delta Upsilon. Campus Patrolman m makmg bmldmg checks did not locate sign. Call to ~raternity on 4/9/15 resulted in that sign plus 4 others being turned mto Security Office. Report submitted to Dean of Students. 4/11/75 1:40 AM Students complained of loud music, fourth floor, South College. Quiet on arrival of Campus Patrolman. 4/14/75 10:00 PM Report on water leaking through ceilings of Room 320 and 321, Davidson House. Maintenance notified and leak repaired by 10:40 PM. 4/17/75 2:25 PM Students complained of loud music at Delta U psi! on. Quieted on request of Campus Patrolman. 10:30 PM _ ; Students complained of loud music at Delta Upsilon. Quieted on request of Campus Patrolman. Commission on Women Continued from Page I approximately 150 professors. Increasing the number of women faculty is also the major concern of the teaching faculty women . All the women present at the meeting felt that hiring competent women would help alleviate some of the sexism found on campus. All students, male and female, would see that women can be serious students and do not come to college merely to find a husband. It is a:so expected that increasing the number of women faculty would eliminate some of the misperceptions surrounding women's capabilities held by male faculty memQers. Need for Support The need for support and encouragement of female faculty was also stressed at the meeting. Several people cited examples in which men and women students baited and, in general, gave women professors hard times in class. Thus, as one professor pointed out, when a woman faculty .nember is said to be having trouble in the classroom the fault does not necessarily lie primarily with the professor. A different evaluation of performance in class may be needed in the case of female faculty since the situation is not the same as it is for men. Steps towards bringing women students and faculty wives together socially as well as formally are also being made. Both groups are interested in planning events, lectures. workshops, and other events together. UllJ YOU KNOW? A YEAR or a SEMESTER abroad may be cheaper than a Yf AR or SEMESTER in the States. Why not live, study and learn in EUROPE? ACADEMIC YEAR ABROAD 221 Ea\t 50th Street . NY 10022 Representatives of the staff, maintenance, and nurses had specific grievances concerned with pension benefits, pay increases, and lack of formal representation at Union. While the representatives of the administrators on campus had no specific complaints other than the small number of female administrators, they offered their wholehearted support in any tasks undertaken by other members of the commission. Strong Showing Several women· during the course of the meeting stated that the large turnout was very encouraging. \It's nice to walk into a crowded room and know you're going to get support.\ A 72t ALTA MONT AVE. . NO DELIVERY CHARGE __ WITH 2 8-CUT PIZZAS WE DELIVER - UNTIL MIDNIGHl (:all ~ li~RDFR 5 PIZZA~ ~ET ONF FREE .. major purpose of the Commission is to get women together, give them the feeling that they're going somewhere. and find mutual support systems. It was agreed by all that women of all ages have something to learn from each other. and they should all participate in helping each other grow. PRESENTS A OOLO PONTI PRODUCTION DAVID LEAN'S FILM OF BORIS PASTERNAKS DOCTOR ZHiVAGO IN PANAVISION• AND METROCOLOR Tues., April 29 - 7:30 7 ~¢ Wed., April30- 7:30 ;:J Zorba's Restaurant 140 Jay St. Breakfast Special $1.50 2 Eggs & Bacon, Ham, or Sausage & Home Fries & Coffee OR Wheal Cakes OR French Toast . Lunch Special $1.60 '4 lb. Sandwich & Soup & Coffee Dinner Steaks, Chops, Seafood by Menu

,,. .·, ·' '• l ' ~ j .. -· PagelO CONCORDIENS/S, Wednesday, April 23; 1975 Report on Community P . . . arttctpatton By LEE RlMSKY This article concerns the ad hoc task force Report on Community Participation The Report, setting forth the proposed plan of instituting a general education policy and a required participation program to be integrated by an individual and his preceptor, is both consistent with the concept of a liberal arts education and complementary to the values of Union College. The benefits that the Union community and its students stand to gain from the implementation of this plan are attractive and compelling. The Report argues that individuals should be required to participate in the community as an extension of his general academic program. In this manner, the individual would grow emotionally as ·well as intellectually during his years at Union. The student would be encouraged to develop a sense of purpose and commitment in regard to the community and his future occupation. Increased social and personal interaction between both students and faculty is perhaps the most beneficial outgrowth of the plan. A more extensive sense of community would also be expected. Individuals would discover areas and interests through participation that they never Would have encountered otherwise. The plan could also improve Union's appeal to high school seniors and put the College in the position to be more selective in its admissions policy. The objections to the plan are not as convincing as they may seem at first. 'It has been suggested, for instance, that the plan would infringe upon an individual's free will by not allowing him to sit in his room for four years and study. This is certainly true to an extent, and it is also true that the plan is somewhat paternalistic. But it is the expressed desire of the authors of the plan that the areas and types .of participation would be flexible and varied enough so that everyone would be able to find some form of participation that he will enjoy. This flexibility is also the counter-argument to the belief that requiring people to participate will result in irresponsibility and resentment. In addition, no class would he placed under the plan that does not know about it before it comes to Union. Thus, if an individ\ual felt threatened by his free will .being restricted in this manner, he would not apply to Union. This would insure that everyone who does choose to come to Union has made a commitment to the plan. . The · supporters of the plan hope to dispel many of the problems it could create by setting up positive· reinforcement A ware.ness Exam With all the increased interest in campus involvement, the Concordy Margin and Late-night Disaster Squad has decided that the following exam will assist the students in evaluating their own awareness of the campus. The questions must be answered without any assistance and without peeking. I) How many pillars on the front of Memorial Chapel! 2) What does the little plaque say on the way out of Jackson's Gardens? 3) How does one finish spelling Rathsk-? 4) True or False: The Science Center \puffs\ at night. 5) True or P'alst:: There is a ladder up the dome of the Nott Memorial. 6) What are the years on Mrs. Perkins's plaque? 7) The new ice rink will have sides. 8) Spell the name of the man who gave us our library. 9) How many Campus Patrol cars are there? 10) True or False: Dean Smith is over 6'5\. If you get none of these right, take the paper bag off your head. If you get one right, try walking around in the daylight. If you get nine right, you are in good shape. If you get ten right, you peeked. Extra bonus question: Will Rich Siegel get tenure? TYPING Reasonable Rates Fast Service 393-2233 Da-.e's· MeM Shop ... St. (dowaiOWil PETER PAUSE RESIAURANT ;u Student Discount I ! Mon.-Sat. 5:30-7:30 535 NOTT ST. systems that would give the participation program a beneficial and not restricting air. It is their :hope that, through this positive reinforcement, students would wish to be involved in the program rather than he excluded and that eventually the requirement aspect of the plan could be eliminated. ,e The; institution of this plan could be one of the most pesitive steps in the history of the College. Union would enhance its image by creating an atmosphere designed to provide the individual with significant human interaction and personalized attention. The community woald grow in quality while the individual develops his mind and self. Union's liberal arts education would fulfill its optimum potential in regard to encQuraging the individual to actmtlize his self- identity. · Jackson's Gardens cherub hails passersby to spread the. word that the gates have finally been unlocked. photo by Robbee More Downsborough Continued from Page l '· consistent with the College's values and envisioned many benefits that the College and its students would reap from its implementation .. ,Claiming that the plan was consistent with Union's values, quotes were referred to: I) President Bonner: \Education at Union should for everyone involved be something more than 'passive consumerism'. Union must be a place where learning to live together with a sense of belonging, of being part ' of a community, is a major goal of the College.-' 2) The Long-Range Planning Committee Report (May 14, 1974): \ ... Students will also be required to make a genuine and acceptable attempt to participate actively in the life at Union. We are intrigued with this idea for two reasons. If 'We are to take the preparation for a career for our students seriously. we should recognize that the vast majority of t.hem will find themselves in an organi~ation; we might begin :to prepave them for the tensions of organiz:ational life by forcing them to be exposed to Union as an organization. Beyond this, we think it is important to blunt the ..passive con~>utner\ attitude which would allow a student to say he owes Union » nothing beyond tuition ... ln a sense we would be saying that stttdeilts with passive consumer attitudes need not come here unless they want those attitudes changed.\ 3) The Union CoUege Catalogue: \Most Union College graduates now continue their formal education past the Bachelor Degree, in graduate or professional schools. The College recognizes the need to provide INGMAR BERGMAN'S Friday, April 25 1(}:00 CRIES AND WHISPERS ROGER CORMAN presents fjil A NEW WORLD PICTURES RELEASE ~ Sat., April 26 7, 9,11 Sun., April 27 7, 9,11 50\ 0 SS016 LUIG·I'S RESTAURANT SPECIALIZING 'IN Italian .. American Food 1125 BARRETT ST. SCHENECTADY 016-97 44 . Enjoy Sizzling Steaks and Chop.<; Visit Our Cocktail Bar those students with the sound preparation for further study, just as it realizes that those who plan immediate careers must have applicable skills. The academic program does not differentiate between the two, nor is it designed exclusively for eithet group. Rather, the College considers the personal choice of graduate schools or career to be a means to a larger goal, the same goal which shapes the academic program; the pursuit of understanding,\ The benefits that would be accorded to Union College and its students through this plan would be rna ny, according to Downsborough and Enteman. Through the short-term personal encounters that would be encouraged, faculty members would be able to evaluate students in a social as well as an academic context. This would be helpful in determining the student's imaginative potential with regard to his occupational aspirations and would thus increase the meaningfulness of written recommendations. The plan would also be a strong \selling point\ in terms of the Admissions Department and future cla-sses at Union. The sense of community, social interaction, significant human encounters, and individual attention at Union will hopefully increase. De Sica Continued from Page 4 Bergman, Bunuel,. and the Italian director Ermanno Olmi. The latter, he said, was able to maintain his artistic integrity throughout his career without bending to financial pressures. As regards his other fellow countryman, Federico Fellini, De Sica said he was a genius · The director perceived a dichotomy in modern man, in which the introspective side, with its Christian overtones and awareness of death struggled with the egoistic impulses that emphasized material achievement. De Sica saw both sides as extremes and. consequently dangerous. He believed in a simple world view where the virtues of innocence, generosity and brotherhood were preached . De Sica was a gentle man who had a compassion for humanity,

it a . ... ... CONCORDIENSIS, Wednesday, Apri/23, 1975 Page 11 ··- _, - .. .._.__._._._ ............ -sports '!> ' ~ ... :.· f';,.\#. ··=·<··. ·: w ,.,. . ·:,·. ' ~· :·,,~-' \Foxy Ladies\ Stiffen competition on campus softball fields. WOMEN'S SPORTS The Girls Tennis Team started their season with a \breakdown\ bang. Firday, April II th marked the beginning of their first match away at Mount Holyoke. Despite obscure directions, circuitous routes and West box-lunches, the girls remained in good spirits. Ellen Lichtig fllaying at the number one singles spot exhibited flawless form despite a sprained ankle and one can look for a key winner that wit! assure future victmies. Both Sue Rich, number two singles, and Muffy Hart, number three singles, retaliated with strong placements, defeating their Mount Holyoke opponents in two sets. \Twinkle Toes\ Anderson and Faith Cail, a strong doubles team, lost a tough two setter as did Lee Russell and Sue Draper. The culmination of a disappointing day resulted in a popped clutch and four stranded, penniless players at Ernests' Service Station. As expected, the four players {known for their sharp menta·! acuity on the court as· well as off) were able to cash a check and return to Union by way of bus - in time for their next match against Russel Sage, Tuesday, April 22~d. Scores Union v s Mt. Holyoke, Singles: l) Ellen Lichtig lost 6-:l, .6-0; 2) Sue Rich won 6-l, 7-6; 3) Muffy Hart won WOMEN'S INTRAMURAL STANDINGS Team t. The Hopeless Case 2. Bonzie's Boomers 3. 3rd Floor West 4. U .C. North Stars 5. Foxy Ladies 6. Smith House 7. West 2 8. The Hot Tunas 9.NoNames 10. ????? 11. 1st Floor Fox Captain Joan Lundstrom Virginia Smith Linda Mackey Debbie Zimmerman Lisa Baumwell Karen Sokoloff AnnTaub Lee Scbwar~ Allison Darefield Susan Brickman Nancy Brauman 6-2; 6-0. Doubles: I) Andersqn- Cail lost 6-2, 6-3; 2) Russell- Draper lost 6-l, 6-0. R,P.I. DOWNED Union def~ated RPl in women's tennis competition here yesterday, taking four of five matches in straight sets.,In singles competition, Muffy Hart and Margaret Goldin overpowered the Troy women -Hart by scores of 6-3, 6-2, and Goldin in sets of 6-4, 6-l. Denise W achenheim, m a hard-fought match, was overpowered in the decisive third losing 6-4, 4-6, 6-2! ,r .. r-.- - . (as of4/22) For- w L .feit 1 2 3 1 2 1 1 1 1 1 1 2 1 1 1 1 .J ,- Garnet Ruggers pursue winning season. Intra murals The Forty-Niners captained by Lyn Yelton defeated the Elvin Hayes team in three games by the score of 15-13, 10-15, 15-15, for the Co-Ed Volleyball Championship last Monday night. This finals climaxed an eventful season in which a 21 team league played an 8 game schedule. On the tennis scene, there will be an intramural tourney with both singles and doubles. The singles will'take place o~ Sunday, A(3ril 27th at I :00 pm. The doubles, which may include mixed combinations, will take place on Friday, May 2nd at 1:00 pm. All Union athletes, both old, new. big and small, are urged to attend a meeting on Thursday, May I st at 7:30 pm in the Block \U\ Room for the formation of a Weight Lifting Club. Prerequisites are at least \one \ underdeveloped, immature, unresponsive muscle. Coach Knull has duely declared himself ineligible for the club. Softball by CATHY REALS In a short hut sweet contest, Union College women's softball team defeated Siena by a score of 6-3 in Loudonville on Monday. Cold and windy conditions limited the game to five innings. Seeking their first victory of the year, the Union women did not have their spirits hampered by the poor weather. In new garnet and white uniforms, they were ready for action against any opponent. Union's six runs were scored on four hits. The Siena pitchers were having trouble controlling the ball and walked everyone from Union at least once. The Dutchwomen stole an amazing total of twelve bases and were caught twice. Ann Markowitz of Union went the distance as pitcher, limiting Siena to six hits. She walked seven. but did not appear to be having control problems. In spite of the weather, it was an exciting game, and the team is looking forward ti it's next home match- up, April 23 on Library Field against R. P.l. Perky Francis awaits pitcher's delivery.

Page 12 CONCORDIENSIS, Wednesday, April 13; 1975 Union battles Syracuse on even terms Lax Suffers First Defeat By MARK S. GROSS The Garnet were tested for the Union's lacrosse team easily ~ first time on Saturd~y afternoon defeated Siena 13-4 .and then lost when they faced Syracuse, which a 9-8 heartbre~ker to Syracuse. was ranked 20th in early -season The Orangemen scored with 46 lax polls. The field was wet from seconds left to break an 8-8 tie Friday night's rain, but the sun and hand Union its first defeat of managed to ·shine on the the season. enthusiastic crowd throughout Against Siena the Garnet took most of the game. a 6-1' lead in the first quarter and A knee injury sustained by Jim coasted to their second win. Thompson in the Siena game, and Bobby Grossman led all scorers the loss of Charlie Howe to the with four goals and four assists to world of academia, left Union up his eseason's tota:ls to 8 and 8. without the service of two of its Donny Ward added three goals best midfielders. Despite and two assists to lead the somewhat depleted ranks, the middies. The freshmen attack, middies managed to account for consisting of Ray Stecker, Stu fjve of the eight Union goals. Napear, and Jed Kanner, saw Donny Ward banged in a couple plenty of playing time and from out front, · and Mike accounted for two goals. As the Deschler and Frank Pangie netted season progresses and this trio one apiece. Freshman Rich gains experience, they should Easton finally let loose and fired become a valuable asset to the one past the goalie for his first of team. the season. Racketmen at 2-1 Union's tennis forces dropped their first match of the '75 season to Clark University last Wednesday breaking a string of 8 straight victories extending into last year. The team rebounded well on Saturday however with a resounding 8-J trouncing of LeMoyne. Soccer Notes I h l' \ ; 1 r' it \ '' )L' u· 1 t L' a 111 .The racketmen traveled to Worcester expecting a tough encounter after handing Clark one of only two losses suffered in a 12-2 '74 season. They did not anticipate the obstacle of playing the match on just three clay courts and they were not equal to the task. Steve Marcus at #4 and Steve Wayne at #6 produced the only points taking straight set singles victories. Crawford and I indcnhcrg dropped three set matches on the slow wind hlown ''\ l:trL· .1nd R<lkL'li\' and I ipton The Garnet attack did not play up to i~s potential. Grossman got hit hard early and played most of the game hampered by a bloody nose. He did manage to hand out four assists for the third straight game, but a tough Syracuse defense kept him from going to the net. Gullans scored two early . goals, but had trouble coming back after a ten-minute search by the referees in the second quarter turned up several illegal sticks on the Syracuse team. AI Ritchie played a great g11me in the cage, turning away numerous shots with spectacular saves. Freshman defenseman Kenny Beck also played an exceptionally fine game. The Gamet will have the chance to rebound from this disappointing loss when they play a tough Williams' baUclub this Wednesday. J.T. and goalie Steve Haddad shot,tld be back by then to help Union look for its third win. The laxmen travel to Middlebury this Saturday and return home to face Trinity next Wednesday on Daley field. IL'll.: nt I~ clcctnl John Dcn1u anJ Craig .Jcffrie~ a~ co-captaim of the 1975 Union College ~occcr ll':tJll Ct aig anJ .John t.:anu:J la~l ~ea~on to break numerous L nion College offensive records and they look forward to a banner year in 1975. as nineteen members of this years· ( 10-2) team will return to attempt to provide another v.inning :-cason. Both Jeffries and I kn10 were named to the New York State All Star Soccer Squad for 1974. '>liLTlllllhcd 111 (\\o. l'n10n ..... dropped all three of the douhles •• ,, · ·· ·· .· match-ups. The Garnet could not :'1ft . alliH'>I to the unusual L\t>ndition~ i (I pn::-.cnt at Clark and fell tu a team \f' certainly not of the superiority that the 7-2 final score would indicate. On Saturday, under threatening sk ics, ll ninn won all but a double match in posting the win over LeMoyne. Seniors Crawford and 'I Rakcczg returned to the winning ~ track with straight set victories. ln t~e past thr~e campaigns this ~ Dutchman duo has combined for i 30 singles victories against just 6 '•· defeats. Wayne and Marcus kept their '75 slates unmarred with lopsided decisions. Freshman Rolf Lipton posted his first varsity win as well. The 2-1 Dutchmen next host Binghamton on Wednesday before visiting Siena on Friday ~' i .• ,. By ALISON SLOAT After a busy· week of competition, the Union Thincla<ls came home 'boasting a pair of wins, defeating Rochester 76-68 and Middlebury 98.,56. Stellar performances were given by sprinter Milt Herring with wins in both the lOO yard dash and the 220 on both o<;:casions ( 10,0, W.2 and 22.9, 23.6), John De Stefano doubling in the :long J\lffiP and the triple jump (20; 6%'', 20' II%\ and 43' 1%\ 42' 3!;2.\) and Bill Mowery cleaning up in the ::;hot put and the discus throw (49' 5\14\ 50' 772'' and 132' 2%\ 125' 8\). t) nion picked up:l8 easy points versus the Middlebury Panthers as the latter provided no participants in the high jump and the pole vault. John De Stefano claimed the win in the high jump at 5'61' followed by Frank Hoster and Dave Ricks .. While in the pole vault, Ricks, Hoster, Adams, and Mastiatis ail cleared 7' 6;; for a ''power\ sweep in the event. Ricks, faced with a greater ch;~Uenge, won the pole vault in the U of Rochester meet dearing .13'6\ while Ad·arris picked up thiFd at '13'. Steve Mastl:litis and Phil S t~gemann traded firsts and seconds in the intermediate h·urdles {57.8 and 58:0 veusus Rochester and 60.7 and •64.2 versus Middlebury); Stegem.a,nli dso picked up .a .pair of de aces in the 1'20 high hurdles (16.1 and 17 . 8) M:··k · May · · d M· ·k .. : as-· ,I e ···-~J an . ar Scheuer gatbe:ted thirds, Herring, Broomes, Adams, and Heywood have gelled into an apparently tough 440 relay team turning in a 44.7 win at U of Rochester and a 45-.7 defeat over Middlebury. Broomes a.lso captured the 440 dash in 54.2 versus R9chester. Also at Rochester, Rich Norman's 1:81' I o:• javelin throw was wmthy of the win with Al Gilewicz at second with a 160' lllh\ throw. Gilewicz a1so earned points in the shot whh 44' 4\11''. Baseball Splits By G. A .. R. The Unian baseball team split its games last week, beating RPl while lo:)irtg to Hobart.- The Garnet Nine lost in the bottom of the lith to Hobart. John Mayer was the losing pitcher, but threw very effectively. Gary Borgeese collected 3 hits and Dart Degregory had 2 while Lou Miller belted a three run homer to pace the Garnet offensive. But against RPI, Union tasted the first of hopefully a long line of victories. It also marked the day Carmon Gatta and Charlie Flanagan came out of the moth balls and helped rally the Union men. The \fish\ relieved Joe Urschel in the 8th and held the Engineers at bay .by timiting them to two hits over the final three innings while picking up the win. Gatta decided the extra inning game When he. doubled home John Busterud from second to break the 5-5 tie. Union scored first in the second inning. Gary Borgeese drew a base on balls, went to second on ,,..,-.,.->.:.'' ·:·':·· .~ .. an error, scrambled to third on a fielder's choice, and sco;red when the RPl pitcher got his hand caught on his SR 50. The Turks decided it was time to score some runs in the 7th. They scored four runs on four hits and two bases on balls. Union came right back with a run in its half of the Yth. John Busteflld singled, moved to second on an .error and raced to third on \Easy\ Andrews single. \Buster\ scored on Gatta's sacrifice fly. With the score 5-2 in RPI's favor going into the bottom of the 9th .• the Garnet's bats exploded. ·Busterud got things going when he was issued a one out walk. Another out later, Gatta singled and Don Milder followed with an R.P.I. single. Dan Degregory reached on an error to lpad the bases, and Ron WestDrook delivered a .two-run shot up the middle to tie the game at 5 apiece. In the lOth inning, Busterud once again got things going as he laced a one out single. Andrews sacrificed him to second before Gatta delivered hi:s double that sent RPl headed for the library. .-:~ In 197 4 Union was honored to be selected as one of the two exhibition teams in the highly regarded Western New England Preparatory School Soccer Clinic, beating Columbia 3-L The same clinic brought together St. Louis and the U. of Penn. the previous year. Union has been invited to ·be one of the four teams participating in the Hartwick College Soccer Tourney in '75. and powerhouse Williams Saturday, Garnet backstop, Don Milder, scrambles for put-out against Colgate. Derr Part and Fun h( S1 V< re m St st re a1 bl T ir si f~ d h p 0 tl rt a Cl [ it 0 E p c ( f~ d tl v 51 s I ~ r ~ s s \ \ i s c ( r e t (

De111o derl!y on Libr~~y Field · Parents Weekend. Have Mo111 and Dad bring the fa111ily c~r, Fun for alll Vol. 104, No. 21 \When people are thrown out of work, unemployment results.\ Calvin Coolidge Wednesday, April 30, 1975 35 cents In tllis issue: The Campus Chronic A bold attempt at journalistic l!umor, See page 7 Considered All College Senators find a moment of levity in the proceeilings. most adament in his protest. In stating that a .. rush joi>\ on the measure would- be out of tone with Pre.sident Bonner's reorganization plans, noting that Bonner had spent months in consultation before announcing h i s a d m i ri i s:t r a t i v e r e - organization, he moved for the two-week postponement which was eventually J'}'assed. When asked to cite an .example of faculty discontent with the pro.posal, Snarlet responded· that Continued on Page 14 by MATT BRIEF On April 4th through April 6th, the Ad Hoc committee on the Calendar met at Dean Smith's house to consider a variety of possible c<rleridars for the college. Several additional participants were invited to attend and contribute. These people representing Faculty, Administration, and •students sought to come up with superior alternatives to our present trimester system. The Committee considered. the pros and cons of various calendars ranging from the traditional 5-5 semester plan to a 4-l-4 to a 3-3-3. By the middle of Saturday afternoon the Committee had come up with three viable alternatives to the trimester plan. lt shoHld .be noted that the 4-l-4, favored in many quarters, was impossible to fit into Union's facilities. The Committee has asked that the Senators discuss each of these calendars with each other and with their constituents, and send to Dean Smith, in writing, the strongest and clearest observations and preferences. 'lh·is input should come back to Dean Smith by May 1st, and a definitive proposal should be presented to the Senate at its last meeting of this year and voted on at the first meeting of next year. If a new calendar is passed at this meeting, it will go into effect Fall 1976. What follows is a summary of the advantages and disadvantages of the ca,lendar plans that have been proposed to the Senate in addition to the trimester plan. Students should consult any of the \people who were oa the Ad Hoc Committee or participants if they have questions and should voice their preference on a calendar to their Senators (if you know who they are). The Anticipation Plan: 4-3-2(1-l) This plan would consist of a Fall term of fourteen weeks with a one week reading period (no classes) before finals. There would then be a three course eleven week winter term, and a spring term for eight or nine weeks in which two courses could be taken concurrently or an independent study and mini-course could be taken for four weeks each. One could conceivably take a 4th course winter term and make yourself a 4-4-1 year and get out the end of April. For the 1976- 1'977 year the 4-3-2 would begin September 7tll and end May 25th. Continued on Page ! I Salaries Boosted by SUSAN FINKELSTEIN Wage increases for many members of the Union College faculty, administration, and maintenance staff have been announced, effective for the academic year beginning September, 1975. The Salary, Pro mot ion, and Tenure Committee voted to increase the monetary total alloted for salaries by 10%. and will grant increases to those members of the Union community they deem most deserving. In what, at times, turned into heated debate, the All-College Senate agreed to postpone the vote on the proposed Governance report for two weeks. Although most members of the Senate supported the new governance structure in theory,· some representatives felt that several adjustments had to be made before passage of the proposal. Two factions quickly formed, and in an hour and a half debate, both sides argued their cases. Those in favor of voting on the repott at the meeting, convinced that they had enough votes to pass the proposal, argued that the passage of the measure would insure that the \spirit of the report\ and its major objectives would be approved of, while particlulars could be dea1t with- at a later date. Dean Smith, supporter of an immediate vote, said that \we ought to give it . to President Bonner as a belated wedding present.\ Jonathan Levin, chairman of the Task Force on Governance, argued that the faculty had had sufficient time to discuss the· merits and faults of the proposal, and that the final vote should be ta~en immediately so that student- elections could proceed a·s scheduled. Frances Fitzgerald Speaks Mr. Dale Timberlake, Comptroller of the College, claims that wage increases for the Union College community, as well as increased tuitions for the coming academic year, are made necessary by the annually rising cost of living and similarly increasing expenses of the College itself. In response to this reasoning, faculty members of the Senate stated that they felt that there had been insufficient time for the entire faculty to consider the proposal carefully, and that more time was necessary if the faculty were to support Ib pa>.~agc. l'rnk''\r R11hl'lt Sharll't. the ll'jH~''t'llt.tti\L Ill dl\ I'-IPII II.. \\,1\ by JACK PITNEY Frances Fitzgerald, Pulitzer Prize-winning author of Fire in the Lake: the Vietnamese and Americans in Vietnam, came to Union Monday to deliver the first Convocation Lecture of the spring term. Her topic was \The Care and Feeding of Militarist Regimes: U.S. Foreign Aid.\ Ms. Fitzgerald began by noting that American military assistance - to authoritarian governmeqts is \.in some ways more destructive than war itself, for military aid can transform or deform an entire society.\ Most of the countries receiving the highest amounts of American aid are dictatorships; in many cases, \the aid itself created these regimes.\ Ms. Fitzgerald' concentrated on \inuth Vietnam and Iran She r•1iritnl nut tlrat thl' po-.t-(·,,.lonial [_ 1 \•\~...·~-nnh'llt\ ~ •I ~~·'111·h \.;~._·ttJ~Jill 11 l' r L' I\ 1 r rn; 1 r 1 I 1 \ rn t' r 1 c .t n Cotnputer Activated by BOB BATCHELDER Except· for landscaping and stuccoing, the new wing of the l Inion College Computer Cente~ is near completion. The highlights of the new wing are the installation of the Burroughs B- 5700 computer and a larger student work area. The Burroughs computer has statted to come into heavy use within the last two weeks by various programming courses. It is fast reachii1g a fully operational state. The Burrou.ghs B-5700 computer far outdistances the G E-415 computer in terms of power, storttge capabilities, and execution speed. As opposed to the ''Batch\ rnethod of operations, where each job was run separately and then printed out. the Burroughs runs under the multiprogramming mode of operations. Mulfirrogramming is .the management of a computer hardware and software by a ('ontinued on Page II The department of •. ('hemistry is currently conducting third-year evaluations of professors Leslie A. Hull and Herbert G. Sutter. Members of the College community who wish to contribute to these ·evaluations are invited to forward their remarks in writing to Professor Charles W .J. Scaife, Chairman, Dept. of Chemistry. products. For instance, \Ngo Dinh Diem wouldn't have lasted a minute without large amounts of U.S. funds. With all this aid, the Diem regime was losing to a bunch of guerrillas with borrowed weapons.\ Interview with Ms. Fitzgerald on page 13. Massive doses of aid helped corrupt many officials who diverted the money to their own use. The interest of many generals was not to win the war in Vietnam. but to continue it. Iran, by contrast, was something of a success story. In the early 1950's, the CIA mounted a coup against the left-leaning Premier, Mohammed Mossadegh, and installed the Shah of Iran in his place. American assistance enabled the Shah to put down dissident groups, especially in tribal areas. He succeeded where the \South Vietnamese leaders failed, because he controlled vast eil reserves. U.S. aid allowed the Shah to \buy\ the government, and oil money allowed him to buy up much of the society as well, said Ms. Fitz,gerald. Ironically, his success in building repressive ·institutions has made him Continued on Page 13 Those individuals recetvmg raises for the coming year have been notified, and consist mainly of faculty members who have been with the College for more than one year. All other personnel have not yet been notified of salarv changes. The amount of salary increase will vary for each candidate according to the gpinion ofthe Salary, Promotion, and Tenure Committee, and all increases must be approved by President Bonner. Student artists who now have exhibits in the Union Gallery. See story on pg. 5.

'· ··'1 ' ,f'; ' I ,,, Page2 CONCORDIE,NS!S, _W,edm;.sday,. April30, 1975 . . ~ ' . - ' - ' . - . . - . ~-~A>,...,. ' •. ' ' .::>.~~~~ . <!!mtt~·Zirittmts ... ~fj Editors-m-ch1ef.. ........... ~ ..... -.......... Jonathan Scheer Peter Sobol Features Editor .. _ ................. Lee Rimsky Culture Editors .. : ............... Mike Affinito David Moskowitz Sports Editors ................. Kevin Crawford . Barb Dewey Managing Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Lance Travis Copy Editor ..................... Phil Alcabes Contributing Editors ............... Judy Dein · Rob Mondschein . Bill Ta.J.is Business Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Robin Pellish National Advertising .............. Betsy Bamet Subscriptions .................... Shelley Gold Lisa Tietz Photo Staff: Greg Cohen, Dan McManamon, Rich Guardian,_ Rudy Lu, Arthur Miller, Don Hammerman, Dave Grossman Staff: Bi11 Plaus, John Busterud, Sue Brickman, Jack Pitney, Matt Brief, Joe Friedman,Clare Walken . CONCORDIENSIS is published every Wednesday by the student body of Union College, Old Gym Hall, Schenectady, . · N.Y.; to which Postal Forms 3579 are directed. Publications Office: The Jewish World Publications, 416 Smith St., Schenectady~ N.Y. 12305 (370~5483). Entered in the Schenectady Post Office as Second Class Matter. Subscription Rate 35 cents per copy. $8.00 a year delivered anywhere in' the United States. light JIP Concordiensis would like to take this opportunity to extend its congratulations to the Security Task Force Committee. The Task Force, headed by Sophomore Glenn Wolfson, has instituted the night-time Campus Patrols, has installed ·lhe more secure doors in West College, and has supervised installation of new campus lighting. As anyone walking across campus at night can attest to~ these lighting improvements provide a degree of security that had formerly been lacking. Any committee attaining as great a degree of success wiU be sure to be an asset to the College. DLM nine bells Since WRUC has gone FM, they have acquired a neat new toy. This toy, for the low, low price of $47 a month, paper and ribbons included, is a UPI teletype. The entire world comes in off that teletype. And lest one be nap ping when drastic news starts to rack-a-tack out, a system of chimes has been incorporated into the machine to assure that one will be attentive. The chimes ring from one to ten times: ten rings indicating the end of the world. It becomes interesting to ponder what the Union College teletype would spit out, and what chime- rating would be accorded to what happened. The ice rink is wasped away by the brook: bing! The Science Center transformer is blown out again: bing, bing! The baseball team wins two in a row: three bings! Campus patrol repairs their mufflers: four bings! The Nott Memorial collap~es: five bings! Grass grows on the corner by the Security office.: six , bings! The Rathskeller is flooded out\ of business: seven bings! The Chapel clock rings the correct time: eight bings!·The twelveapoint grading system is approved: nine bings! What will we do when we run out of bings! Start using buzzers. PGS you said it r hatehed? Editors, Concordiensis: With reference to the article entitled \How Do I Love Thee .. .\ conspicuous absence of the mothers of Dr. and Ms. Bonner led us to wonder if their fathers hatched them or if there were females involved in theiT births. Anne Bowden- Linda Burns Jane Levine Marge Shapanka Karen Sokoloff Dotsie Whitney Barbara Burek Laura Chakrin in spiritu Dear Concordy, Amid\ morbid stones now and devoid of foliage;· there is little that has disturbed my requiescence in recent years, but I suppose no one can expect to repose peacefully forever. So it is now that I wearily take up my quill once again, if only to brandish a feather before a marble tower. The beauty of nature has always been an infinite fountain of refteshment for me, and when it suffers abuse at the hands of ignorance a needle pinches a nerve somewhere and a dormant spark provokes a nervous. albei-t feeble response. Gardens have been my particular weakness from as far back as I can recall, and horticulture an innate passion. l was fortunately blessed with a good-sized piece of fertile land and I nurtured it with a mother's love. Of course, by then I was well past the prime of my life and not as sensible or productive as I used to be, but the small brook and streams that coursed through the land were more alluring to me than all the great oceans of the world. When I was no longer able to care for my garden, its welfare was entrusted to the Maintenance of Union Colle,ge. From what I'm led to understand, it grows irl good health. but one of my grandsons informs me that the brook that bounds through old Union's grounds is in danger of becoming the sink that stinks so that no one drinks. It seems that an outlet from campus grounds is defiling the water with grime- and sludge and engendering a colony of tiny red worms. He's a good boy and he does well in his grades. If what he says is trtle, I only hope I have l he strength left to roll over. In spiritu, Isaac Wilbur Jackson Professor Emeritus hale hell Editors. Concordiensis: Before I leave Union this June, I feel obligated to voice my displeasure with the current option meal plan, with special reference to freshmen. When I was a freshman, I took all of my meals at West College. Hale House was reserved for upperclassmen. This remained the situation until this year, when the option plan allowed freshmen to eat at Hale House. It used to be relaxing to be able to go to Hale House in the morning after one's first class and enjoy the breakfast special. However. with the present set-:up, it takes from fifteen to thirty minutes to get waited Qn, and when you finally place your order you're told, \Sorry n·o more eggs. The grill is dosed.\ Lunch is even worse. For those unlucky people (myself included) who have a class until 11:30 and a class at I :30, you can cross off Hale House. The line is out·past the condiment table, and if you do decide to wait, you can count on at least half an hour . Dinner is the same story, and by this time, it is completely discouraging. The whole pr0blem is the huge number of freshmen who now choose to eat at Hale House instead of West. Hale House is just not equipped to handle all of these people, and I for one feel that it is unfair tha:t an upperclassman should be shut out, of a meal because of freshmen eating at Hale House. Since J am only going to be here a few more weeks, it doesn't much matter to. me any longer. However, for those who still will be here next year and who plan to eat their meaJs at Hale House, I wish them the best of lucie. The only solution Would seem to be the elimination or at least modif.ication of the option plaN to exclude freshmen at Hale House. Also, more personnel would seem to be required at Hale, regardless of whether or not the option plan is kept. If the option plan next year still allows freshmen to eat at Hale House. then \dining\ there will be like dining in the middle of Grand Central Station. Sincerely, Oqvid Neifeld '75 Editors' note: It gratifies us to see that no student spen4s fot.Jr years at this college without taking time to address the truly important issues. We trust you. are not seeking employment in an urban area. for the people Editors; Concordiensis: PGS A week. before the first spring issue of Concordiensis I wrote a letter to the editor concerning the continuing debacle in Southeast Asia. Assuming that Concordy was a newspaper that represented all student views and interests I naturally exrected the letter to be 11rinted. Two issues have since heen distributed, neither of which contained mv letter. I contacted nne oi the n~wspaper's co-editors in order to question why the letter had not appeared. I was informed that since mv letter did not interest in current affai.rs beyond Union exists, as I believe it does, it should be reflected through objective reporting, or at least opinion. in Concordy. Since this is not done, I am either terribly mistaken ,jn my analysis of Union students or Concordy is n0t performing its proper function. Obviously a decision must be made as to what subject matter is worthwhile for print and what is not. In aH fairness to its readers, it is the duty of the newspaper's decision makers to delineate their p.osition so that the readers may know from what perspective the editors choose articles and letters to be printed. I am here not suggesting biased or subjective reporting but limited reporting. It is a serious infringement upon freedom of speech to deny print to something that the editors feel does not reflect the interests (within reasonable bounds) of the students. It is even more serious when the editors do not c.learly define the sco1Je of \printable\ interests and views so that one is left with the feeling that the decisions are made arbitrarily or without consultation with other stud·ent interest groups. As earlier stated, Concordy is, an example of this type of problem. It is easily alleviated. Without existing clarification of the editor's policies I expected my lette.r to be published. When it was not printed I was forced to- question the implicit position Concordy takes and why it was ·not made explicit. Richard Rosenberg Editor's note: It seems that there are a :Cew people on this campus who believe Concordy should handle national news. ln our attempts to make this. newspaper readable, burnorous, and 'petJ!aps a. lift from an otherwise coiorJess day, we have carefully · examined everything which. is submitted. We will not present a strict policy about what articles we will accept; we want the decision to be maile once a potential reporter has submitted an article, rather than have some obscure policy statement discourage its writing to begin with. If the New York Times and the Schenectady Gazette do nQt cover South East Asia to your satisfaction, give tbem a -call. PGS objections. concern affairs. directly related to Editors, Concordiensis: !inion College it was not While the mandatory acceptahle for the \letter to the . rarticiration plan has many good editor'' column. Through our intentions. there are a few valid discussion it came out that, ohiections which seem to have however inexplicit and ambiguous heen overlooked: it was. the policy of Concordy was to publish articles only about (I) This plan does not reflect Union. 1 asked that, for the the way in which people will act interest of mvs.elf and other in out-of-school situations. Union students, a formal College is supposed to develop in clarification of this policy be students a desire and interest to made in the editorial section rarticirate in activities that do . reserved for Conc.:ordy opinions. not give direct rewards. There's ( 2 1 no one in \real life\\ who tells you page · co umn l ). This request that ·_vou have to be a. part of any was refused. · This incident raises two points such ~ctivities. The plan deprives the people it is aimed at of the concerning the role of a student opportunity to find out for news P a Per • The f i r s t themselves what the rewards are consideration should be a · determination as to. what the f~~ol'~e~~g the imtiative to get scope of material printed should ( 2) H the plan is successful in be. Second, is the obligation of ·getting more people into the pqlicy makers to make organizations. which is explicit the decisions agreed questionable, the school's upon. , committees and clubs would be With regard to the first point; a swamped with members who are campus newspaper should reflect only interested in satisfying the interests of the students. It is requirements. That's asking these extremely difficult for me to organizations to commit suicide. believe that we at Union are so The validity and importance of insulated that there is no concern these objections will undo~btedly for events beyond how many not seem the same to d1fferent different committees there are or people. but I do think they are whut the intramural softball worth consideration. standings are; two subjects · Da\'e Mendelsohn reported by Cone,rdy. If this

beyond it does, through at least this terribly of Union is not must be matter is what is readers, their may ctive the letters not ubjective It upon print feel interests s) of the serious clearly one is hat the or other is. of of cted my it to- position it was a few who to dable, a. lift day, policy will to ential its New ctady East give ory act ns. pin t to do you any ives the for are get in IS be are mg ese e. of . . CONCORDIENSIS, Wednesday, Apri/30, 1975 Page3 . Y e shaU do good works ... by BRIAN J. SHOOT It is true that there are those among us who view any proposal incorporating the word '\required\ with t·he greatest suspicion. It is most likely true tha.t some of the people · who have eXpressed disapproval of the cormpunity participation requirement have done so solely on the basis of their disquietude with respect to -requirements in general. That is to say, any proposal that seems to present additional work is tejected out of hand by some students. Cleatly, this is not a position to which l subscribe. Yet, while the community participation proposal does .. in many respects present a pos1t1ve approach to the state of student non-involvement, and while, (as. has already been concluded), the mere fe!lT of additi-onal requi11~rnents . is not sufficient justification for the rejection of the co'mmunity participation proposal,. it is clear that the proposal is beset with problems, both· moral and pragmatic, that upon due consideration force its rejection. lives. Moreover, the proposal is not properly analagous to criminal law either, (or school disciplinary procedures for that matter), for while law commonly \takes the form of prohibitions, the community participation proposal requires positive action, thereby leaving the student with far les~ freedom to order his life tilan 'the afor.ernentioned types· of control.· , Secondly, it is questionable whether the proposal will res1,1It in any appreciable improvements in terms of behavioral change. indeed, using the examples of . .acceptible community parti~ipation suggested by the Task Force on Community Participation, the great majority of Union students h~ave participated in community affairs without the stimulus of a requirement. Thus, while the propesal might have . the unwanted effect of curtailing student freedom, it is unclear what positi¥e effects implementation ·of the .proposal would provide. about work for the Republican Party, or the C!)mmunis~ Party, or the John Btrch Society? In addition, how much time or money expended represents \participation\? It appears that the .community participation proposal may force the necessity of the p.roverbiaJ comparison between x apples and y pears, Fourth, the proposal tnay have the dubious· effect .of clemeaning the mor:al worth of community participation. We commonly judge the morality of a given action not only by its effect; but also by the intent of the actor, Accepting intent or motivation as a criterion for judging human action, it is undeniable that an action based on the moti:ve of seif-gain is less praiseworthy than an act:ion predicated on the desire to help others or the wish to give of oneself. Yet, the addition of community participation as a requirement for graduation.and a means towards course credits can only emphasize the motive of self- .gai.n. as the impetus for community participation. It should be added that while the reasons presented above are adequate to reject the community Opinion ~rrtnu!i participation requirement, they are certainly not the only reasons that could be given. There are a multitude of further problems the pmposal must face~ For example, what about the student who would like to participate in a certain category of community service. (such as elective office in s~uden} government, or in inter- collegiate athletics), but is unable to. (due to failure to be elected or lack of athletic abi.Jity)? Should that student be rewarded for his intent or forced to participate in some other manner?lna somewhat similar veill, should community participation be judged qualitatively as well as quantitatively? In addition, in what way does intramural athletics resemble community participation'? (It seems that the only d.ifference between intramural athletics and a pick-up basketball game is formality, and the only difference between a pick-up game and shooting baskets is magnitude. Is free- throw shooting community participation?) The General Education Advisor proposed represents a much needed improv.ement, and the mechanism proposed for community participation could be very useful in an adv.isory capacity. However, the requirement of community participation is a dreadful mistake in judgement. First, the obvious argument that th'e community participation requirement re.presents an infringement upon the student's freedom to order h.is life cannot J>e ignored, _for unlike the academic . requirements that we are all familiar with, the community partidpa tion n;:quirement seeks to exert control l)pon what many students quite rightly regard as their private Third,· the administrators of the C()mmunity participation proposal would be forced into making the tu.pe .of subjective judgements that could easily lead · to gross inequities. Fot example, it is dear that volunteer work for the Red Cross should be considered as bona fide comnmnity service, but what about voluntary _service to the United States Chess Federation? · Participation in student government is A Woman's Pl·ight at Union community service, but what ------~----------------7,------------~- ! Brain Farewell to Dorms by JOE SILVER If the proposed community involvem~nt requirement is instituted, it will bring an end to the myriads of students who fritter away their time in their rooms engaged in such activities as\\ hibernation, • vegetation, incubation, and various ,base desires of the flesh. In light of this proposal, which is aimed at encouraging all members of the campus to grow, presumably at least as tall as Dean Smith. here are some possible ways to create more social interaction, to give all a sense of purpose, .and develop a sense of self-identity. During orientation week, a comm·ittee called the \awareness self-actualization. self-identity, and . realization in participation committee\ (A.S.S .. -R.l.P.), should be established to help students become aware by actually realizing themselves. It would issue . internal passport I. D. cards to every person on campus. Anyone caught without one would have te apply gray stucco t·o his Carnegie mailbox. With the aid of these cards, any person who feels alienated, lonely, who doesn't know who he is, or who can't find himself, merely has to look at his internal passport and he'll actually realize his self- identitv. When you feel lost, the .card .will tell you you're at Union College, For those who still find this .. an linsatisfoactory answer to 'their dilemma. remember the words of the Taoist sage: \I only know that I am here until I am somewhere else.\ For those who don't enjoy being involved in groups such as the A.S.S.-R.I.P., an Apathy club should be set up, to provide an outlet for all the bottled-up apathy on campus. A committee should be established to conduct field research in terms of the validity and feasibility of such a s~udent organization and to determine whether or not there is enough student interest m supporting apathy. Various disciplines in the College can be utilized in campus improvement projects. For example. since beer is such a vital fuel for the functioning of this campus. student teams should be organized to improve the supply and distribution of this val~:~able commodity. Chemistry majors could work on a frozen beer which would be a suitable playing surface for the new hockey rink. At the end.of the season, it could be melted down for a huge beer blast. Engineers might work on a way to \tap in\ the creek and provide an un~nding source of beer. • Psychology majors could train the pigeons around·· Nott Memorial (via behavior modification), to pick up litter. Political scientists could examine the correlation between students who don't say ,hello .and their · family's voting record on th~ issue of mass tnmsit. -The possibilities ·are endle.ss. , · by PIP What is it like being a female here? I can only give my opinion - and even that changes as p_eople's actions and attitudes change. Being a woman at Union is be.ing alone. Frustrated. Alienated. A minority. It's walking into Hale House for b_reakfast and . ~eemg six other women s1ttmg by themselves and six to ten groups of males laughing. It's going to the gym to work out and feeling strange because I'm NOT trying to lose weight. It's apologizing for the amount and style of \\'iny clothes. apologizing if I'm Jewish, if l come from N . Y. Statt: or City. Being a woman here is arriving with my presidencies and awards from high school and not . being taken seriously. It's getting a vaginal infection on Friday and not being able to take care of it unt·il next Thursday unless 1. try somewhere off campus and when I do get to see the Gyn I can't understand him anyway. It's getting pregnant and suddenly realizing that no matter how great mv male friends are - there's a ti~e for female help and understanding and I don't know anv of the six full-time women fa~ulty members well enough and where do I go? Being a female at Union is being a type. - be it that of North. Richmond. Fox. West or other. I'm often looked over ,..or forgotten when meetings - and committees are formed. I have all the hassels of a normal student, but am told my \A\ was because that prof. likes girls; that on one hand rm here for a husband, not a career. but yet. I'm a brown- noser and a throat. Being a woman here is all this and more ORIENTATION There will be a very important but brief meeting for all Orientation Advisors on Thursday, May I; at 4:30 p.m. in Old Chapel. All effort · should be made to attend; anyone who cannot attend please corytad l\1rs. Sno.wden in Stud~qt Activities at 6U~, Qauiet 1\apl~n a~ 6481, or Bill \Talis at 346-9688. - much more; every day trivial putdowns build up. But things are changing for me. Being a woman here has become a new world. 1 now can leave my class 0f 50 kids (five female) and walk to a luncheon meeting of 50 women-staff, students, faculty and faculty wives. I'm learning about other women's problems here: meeting other women·:: making friends and getting support on my beliefs and actions. Being a woman here can mean exchanging stories and laughing the bitterness out of the slight or inequality. It's getting together and setting projects up, inviting speakers, interacting with a greater diversity of people; but mostly, being a woman at Union is a radical rise in consciousness, and this. perhaps one day will help me not only to survive, but to succeed. What kind of man reads Concordy? The active man, the man who makes no bones about his opinions. FACT: More people read Concordy than rot ,in .their room~ a]( ~erm. ' \ photographer unknown

' ' -'. -~·- . '' Po.ge4 ' ·_i j . . ' ,( ',1 ·, : !-. '. ~ ,' l ' ' CONCORDIENS/S, Wedn,esday, April30, 1975 There is Talent Karen Manno as Mrs. Webbs and Cathy Janelli as Mts. Gibbs gossip about the chickens in 'Our Town'. Mountebanks; presents Thornton Wilder's OUR· TOWN, MAY 2, 3, 4, 7, 8, 9, 10. The May 9 and 10 performances are already sold out, and the rest of the tickets are going fast. The Box Office is open from 1 to 5 p.m. daily. Call 370-6153. Although Our Town was written almost forty years ago, and is set in a small New England town at the turn of the century, it still holds meaning for us. Wilder has written a universal play: when a character in the play says a copy of Our ]:'own will be put in the cornerstone for posterity, he means it. Wilder wants people thousands of years from now to know how we lived. But this play is not historical, yet, it is about us. • ID OUr Town .. Life at the top -· George and Rebecca Gibbs (Peter Craig and Sheryl Holland) marvel at the moon instead of Algebra problems. \Tho strawberry iCe cream sodas, Mr. Morgan.\ Lee Bloomrosen should be good for a job at the skeller after OUr Town. photos by Cindy Wolfson and Cliff Langweiler. '

' ' ' I I ~ t ; CONCORDIENSIS, Wednesday, April30, 1975 Page5 Painting · and Photo Exhibit in Gallery From now until May 22, works. by students of photography and painting are on display in the Union Gallery at Shaffer Library. Th~ gallery is open from 2-5 p.m. weekdays, except Mondays and Tuesdays. The stt1dent exhibit, which opened this afternoon with a cocktail party, is a hard-hitting commentary on the bleaker side of urban life in America, and reveals a particular coldness and hostility of the city of Schenectady. Tbe Union College Women:S Glee Club as they prepare for last week's concert with their male RPl .counterparts. Students of Professor Nina Rosenblum of the Arts Department were asked to photograph and paint scenes re¥ealing the character of industrial life. The Fesult was an impressive and .thought- provoking vist~al criticism of Photo by Cindy Wolfson· Drama· Department p·lans several new. program\& by CLARE WALKEN There are those who think that d:ama at Union is a closed set, a kmd .of club complete with a certain type of \theatre people\ who pop up in every production and are never seen outside of N ott Memorial. The fallacy in this belief could be made clear by the cast of Our Town, since many of the actors have never appeared on a stage anywhere before. The whole face and function of drama. at Union will underge radical changes \during the next five years. Along with the planned theatre productions at the N ott and the Cabaret (which is a direct prod u c t of the Dr a rna Department), a Theatre Exposure Program is being planned for the immediate future starting next year. With the proper funds, profe~sional traveling companies and artists of the theatre will be brought to the College, making Union a cultural center in its own right. Three touring companies are already .scheduled to start off the program: The Black Friars (fall), Laing Investigators (fall), and Dedalus Productions (winter). Not only will the Union community get to view these performances, but the artist will be encouraged to stay on campus for a period of time to conduct workshops and seminars. Thus, the visiting actors, directors, technicians, etc., will be sharing their working process with Union students by conducting classes in acting, dance, and improvisation. An<Jther program which has been started this year is the New American Plays Program, co- ordinated by Bob Harders, Union's first\· Community Development Intern. Thi~ program gives undiscovered Student elections will be held on Tuesday, May 20th. All l'un-offs will be held ori the following Thursday May 22. Petitions for all positions, President, · V!ee•President, Secretary, Junior Trustee and the six dass representatives can be picked up at Student Activities .beginning Friday, May 2nd and should be returned by Friday May 9th. . Texas Instruments & Hewlett Packard Calculators SR-50 - $ 89.00 SR-51 - $149.00 HP- 21 - .$125.00 KP-45 - $230.00 Call: DAVE PROULX 346-9973 playwrights the chance l!> see their works produced for the first time, as well as giving Union students new material with which to w_ork. -This year over 250 scripts were submitted for :_ consideration in a contest for'' production. The winning play, Pledges, by Ted Snowdon, will have its world premiere performance in N ott Memorial on May 23rd. · In addition to the regular faculty-directed productions, the program proposes to do at least two new American . plays each year~ . giving the upperclassmen something to work with while the freshmap play is underway, and enabling many more people to be involved in drama,, A guest director will be brought in to direct the new plays, bringing with him \fresh blood\ to contribute to th~ Union . community. Union is also involved with the coming Empire State Youth '\Theatre·· Institute, located m Albany. which will begin existence the year after next (1977). This will be a full repertory theatre which will not only produce a variety of plays in Albany, but will also go to high schools to hold classes in all forms of theatre, something that's never been done before. The members would direct, teach, and provide a medium wherein interest and awareness of theatre might be nurtured. In 1977, Union students will be given the opportunity to intern, as apprentices in this program, with a full term's credit offered. There should be room for each student to design a program geared to \his or het major, which will create an opportynity for' non.drama majors to experience theatre m relation to their own field of - ..... A Summer Theatre Program is also being planned. This year Barry Smith will offer two drama courses. One is called ••Imagination and the Body\ a creative acting class. The other, ''In Depth Exposure to Summer Theatre Productions,\ involves analysis of plays followed by class trips to see them performed at Williamstown Summer Theatre Festival, City Center, and ''Second Company\ (A traveling theatre ensemble which last summer offered free theatre to the Schenectady community). Then, actors and directors will come to Union to discuss what goes on in their realm of exper.ience while working with the plays. The Drama Department is also encouraging the Second Company (which grew out of the Williamstown Summer Theatre) to perform twice a week at Union and eventually even make Union its home base. - - Part Time Employment I t Male; for the Camera and Stereo Department. Must have experience. Sen{! resume stating qualifications to: The Townsmen Dist., Inc. 1617 HAMBURG STREET SCHENECTADY, NEW YORK 12303 - - - - LU.IGI'S RESTAURANT SPECIALIZING IN Italian - Ame.rican Food 1125 SARRETT ST. SCHENECTADY 016-9744 - E,n_joy Sizzling Steaks and Chops Visit Our Co('k tail Bar urban America. The image presented is not one which would have made the Chamber of Commerce proud. Highlighting the photographic display is the prestigious Union Portfolio, a collection of original photographs comprising the limited edition entitled \The Electric City,\ Only sixty editions are being produced, and are offered for sale at $50.00 each through the Arts Department. Proceeds frorn the sale will be utilized to perpetuate the Union Portfolio next year. \The Electric City\ reveals a consistency in student impressions of urban life. Only a hint of warmth is revealed in one ph?tograph, a family portrai_t, in wh1ch a youngster sheep1shly grins while the other six members of. his family sit or stand rigidly, with stern and sobering expressions on their faces. Photographs on display are separated into six sections, in addition to \The Electric City'\ Portraits of men, portraits of women, urban industrial landscapes, rural landscapes, still lifes, and a series by Cindy Wolfson. One of the most remarkable of the photographs is the work of Harris Suzuki combining two· negatives: indicative of excellent darkroom technique, to give the subject, Carlos' Pizza at the Big \N\, a surreal clearing sky during the height of winter. The photographic collection contains a va.riety of human emotions in those photographed, and through the natural and man-made environments captured on film. Of the eighteen paintings on display, two works stand out above all others: David Marrs, in the style of harsh new realism who meticulously painted ~ telephone with its reflection· and Jim Howe, who executed a gentle realistic painting of an old man sleeping, in the style of Andrew Wyeth. Marr's medium was oil on canvas, while Howe chose oil on masonite. Most of the students' paintings on industrialization also portrayed the emptiness and individual desolation of the industrial age. In addition to the 45 photographs and the industrial paintings, included are assignments of developing painting technique from Professor R~s~nblum's Introductory pamtmg class of last term, and drawings and color sketches. The student exhibit serves as a tribute to the efforts of the Arts Department and students, and is a display well worth visiting. )-

Page6 CONCORDIENSIS, Wednesday, April 30, 1975 Eccentric, Forgotten Buildings of Union's Past Recalled by DAVID MOSKOWITZ \February 21, 1785; Be. it resolved: To construct as speedily as possible, with the help of the church, a house two stories high, with two rooms in each story; and on completion of the building three of said rooms shall be assigned for the use of the school and academy.\ So began the 190- year old history of the physical Union College. For the most part, the original buildings of Union CoHege still exist and continue to be used. In fact; in the entire College history only a handful of major structures were ever demolished. These elements of forgotten architecture encompass a remarkable and eccentric part of Union history. had to live in \Long CoUege,\ a two-story brick building erected to serve this need. As the College continued to grow, new ·President Eliphalet Nott foresaw the need for a larger campus. A deal was subsequently .made with the Schenectady City Father whereby Stone College was ·to be converted to Schenectady's City HaH in return for which. the College was to receive 3,000 acres of land. This land was then sold for $71,00(). Land personally acquired by Nott, located one rnile from Stone College wa~ then designated to serve· as the new (and present) campus. Stone College was a praetical and useful building but was later deserted by the City of Schenectady when new quartefs were built. 1ihough it no longer stands, Stone College, at the corner of Union and College Streets. remains useful to this day serving as the Van Dyck Restaurant's parking lot. In 1795. the old Schenectady Academy on Union and Ferry Streets served as the original home for the second College in New York State (after Columbia University). The building, long- since replaced by residences, served for two years as headquarters for the growing new college. In 1797, · work began along the hanks of the Erie Canal on \West College,\ or as it was known, \Stone College,\ Work proceeded slowly on this new home, hindered mainly by inflationary building prices which boosted costs to a staggering $56,000, Stone College was finally completed in 1804, at which time the College eagerly entered its expensive new home. As Union moved to its luxurious new campus, buildings were constructed when money became availal>le and to fit the original plan of Joseph Jacques Ramee. One of the features of this plan was a curved colonnade Doomed Washburn Hall, above, temporarily graced the Plaz(J in front of Schaffer Library; Below, Architect William A. Potter, designer of the Washburn colonnades. envisioned neverarealized. embellishments of !zis plan. The original West College served a College whose enrollment had blossomed to 64. The staff of Union at the time comprised the President, two professors, and two tutors. Inside, Stone College had room for the President's residence, a chapei, library. recreation rooms, and dorm rooms (freshmen and sophomores lived on the uppermost floors, of course). Despite the vast space, enrollment continued to increase to the point where an overflow of students connecting several sa telli.te buildings and one central hall. to plan the colonnades. Potter, a The one building tbat was erected disciple of H. H. Richardson, was to meet these requirements was one of the most prominent and the alternately beloved and eclectic architects of his time - despised Washburn Hall. Located but his selection as the colonnade on the present Library Plaza, architect was probably linked to Washburn was the first major his being the grandson of Union College building on the Eliphalet Nott and the brother of new campus to be demolished. Union President Eliphalet Nott In Ramee's original plan a Potter. central, ••Mem<Jrial Hall\ Potter had designed buildings (completed around 1876) was to in what is described as a be the easternmost building; this competent, unimaginative became Washburn Hall. At first, • \Gothic\ style; later, he designed funds did not exist for the' in the \Neo-Rennaisance\ style. planned Ramee colonnades or the Stili, with his commission for the attached b.uildings to be colonnades, Potter was forced to constructed. When several large comply With the wishes of several contributions turned up in 1880, of the College's donors - each of the College immediately engaged whom had different and architect WilliaiU Appleton Potter contrasting ideas about how the co I on n ad e'S s h o u I d be constructed. The resultant Washbu'rn Hall was an architectural potpourri of many conflicting but unusual styles. Potter's sketchbook showed some prospective elaborations he had planned for the colonnade wings, a pretentious rambling of several architectural styles. The colonnades as they existed were called Potter's most successful shapes. Thus, Union College had comp·leted a rather strange and half-hearted attempt at finishing the persistent Ramee plan. The problem then was to determine what to do with the building. The central portion of Washburn served as the College library until 1903. when a gift from Andrew Carnegie enabled the library to move into the Nott Memorial. Was.hburn .then became the home of the Mountebanks. The conversion from library to theatre was sponsored by the Hanna family (of \Boss'\ Hanna fame: he, .engineered the nomination and election of President Warren G. Harding in 1920), and the hall became known as Ha1ma Hall. Despite their new home, problems did exist in the Mounties' new theatre, as evidenced in a College report of the 1930's: \Hanna Hallltas been dealt with successfully by acGustie experts, and at last this beautiful room has been made audible for the human voice, a change which should increase its usefulness two- fold.\ This does seem likely .... The Washburn colonnades at the time contained the center .for the h·ousing and student activities oHices. Later, Concordy, WRUC, and the College bookstore ~;ailed Washburn home. With the construction of Schaffer Library in 1960, belittled Washburn Hall was doomed. The building was awkwardly situated and . had begun to show signs of deterioration. The planned Social Sciences and Humanities Zorha's Restaurant Left Above: Union College circa 1958. Right Above: buildings that . would complete Ramee's plan left no room fm the bizarre building. After salvaging some of the stone-fittings and the Hanna l-lall wood panelling for future use. Union College paid the Jackson Tree Service $7500 in 1963 for the first demolition of a major College· building on the Ramee campus. 140 Jay St. Breakfast Special $1.50 . 2 Eggs & Bacon, Ham, or Sausage & Home Fries & Coffee OR Wheat Cakes OR French Toast Lunch Special $1.fi0 '4 lb. Sandwich & Soup & Coffee Dinner Steaks, Chops, Seafood by Menu Stone College, now the Van Dyck Restaurant Parking Lot. RO·OM FOR RENT Located over Peter Pause Restaurant, 535 Nott St. 3 bedrooms; living room, bath and kite hen. $55 per month (heat, water, electriCity induded). See Peter Pause Proprietors for Info. · DID YOU KNOW? A YEAR.or a SEMESTER abroad may be cheaper than a YEAR or SEMESTER in the States. Why not live, study and • learn in EUROPE? ACADEMIC YEAR ABROAD 241 East 50th Street . NY l0022 · Union's .physical history is still readily perceived; what Iitt!e that has been lost is preserved in the likes of bookstore postcards. For ' the time being the bulldozers have not set their sites on targets such as crumbling Nott Memorial. Whether or not Washburn Hall and the Biology Building will be the only aesthetic loss this century will see is stilt very much in doubt. Vol.

iJ \ [) I. e e > \• i ; f CAMPUS. CHRONIC Vol. I No. 1 Wednesday, Apri/30, 1975 New administrative plan in effect; Provost optimistic ~ )il:2i!iS0t;~LY'£~!~~2· . Provost Enteman prepares to changes. his administrative photo by Greg Cohen Old facuJty post restored Provost Wil'Lard F. Enteman has released a plan for administrative reorganization creating a new policy for condiment implementation in the Provost's lunch. Details of the plan are contained in the long- awaited report on reorganization, reprinted in full in this issue of Campus Chronie. An organization chart reflecting the new meal will be found below. The plan calls for the increased application of ketchup to various components of the midday snack, including the French Fries and the Potato Chips. Eliminated from the application of ketchup were the items of Chocolate Shake and Candy Bar. In other changes, the hamburger is being reassigned \to a lower priority level in the overall meal plan. ADMINISTRATIVE CHANGE AND KETCHUP'S FUTURE: A REPORT BY THEFROVOST I: Objectives and priorities for Lunch. On a warm October day last fall I said that my lunchtime french fries were beginning to lose their flavor. There has always existed a creative tension betw.een the classical· taste of salted fries and the worldly tang of ketchup. I believe this even more strongly today. Now, as then, f am mindful of the enormous potential yet to be unlocked in this condiment. More specifically, I believe that there is a definite future for the kind of lunch the new plan offers, in spite of overriding concerns for the neatness of the desk after the ~eal. It will be the expectation of the Provost that every facet of his lunch will spend part of its time in seeking answers to such questions as: should I be ketchuped? II: The Role of the Administration. I believe there is an important difference between planning a lunch and simply eating it. Many lunches 1 know are well eaten but poorly planned. It is the job of the Provost to See that planning takes place at every. level; he is accountable for the success of his lunch in reaching the goals that he has set for it. To move the lunches of this College forward we shall need the strongest possible administrative leadership. The report that follows describes certain changes being made at this time to provide the most effective lunch structuring and lunch leadership possible in moving early afternoons into the stormy stomachs before us. Let no one believe that any decision. was taken lightly or without anguish and concern for those ingredients that have been affected. But I have tried, however successfully, to make those decisions that I believe to be in the best interests of my stomach and with compassion and humanity for all my digestive Continued on Page 9 A faculty post, believed to date back- to pre'-Civil War days,. is being restored by the Schenectady Museum. The faculty post was discovered by Nick \Mashie\ Niblick, a speed-limit sign number- changer employed by the Schenectady Department of Highways, while he was digging. for worms one night last week in Dean Garis Field. similar finds in the northeast. Dr. Boodoggle had this to say about the faculty post: \After studying the significant patterns of wear, notably in the circumferential diametric region, and considering the place of recovery of the artifact,_ I have come to the conclusion that this was a hitching post used by Union College faculty in the early 1840's. It was not uncommon for pt:,.ofessor~ to ride horses to class in those days.\ Gnot knot not for N ott Mr. Niblick said that he found the faculty post a few inches under the surface and dug it out because he believed that he would find worms underneath. Upon extracting the post he noticed that the following phrase had been carved on it: \Chester -was here.\ Believing that he had discovered a carved signature of Chester A. Arthur, Niblick attempted to sell the post to his next door neighbor that night in a locai tavern. The neighbor, who asked to remain anonymous, asked the bartender to call the police because he believed Mr. Niblick had been drinking and meant to hit pim with tlfe post. Upon arrival, the police recognized the possible value of the post, and brought it to the Schenectady Museum, where it is currently under examination by experts. .. The museum has called in Dr. Mathias Boondoggle III, who has experience in evaluating many Sadly, the inscription first noticed by Mr. Niblick has been deemed by Dr. Boondoggle not to be the handiwork of Chester Arthur, but of a certain Chester Flatt, a student, who was rumored to have walled himself up in -the N ott Memorial foundation to protest its construction. Contra-ry to previOus indications, Gnorman Gnot witl not consent to untie the financial knot posed by the current condition of the mouldering N ott Memorial. Mr. Gnat, a multi- millionaire, is quoted as having said, \It's not that the N ott is not a real knot, but lefs not kid Search. committee for Dean of Students formed A search committee for Dean of responsibleJor locating the Dean in Students bas been formed,. the event that any student, or consisting of students and faculty. group of students, desires to The committee was deemed converse with him. necessary due to the frustration Anyone having substantive voiced by many students about the information concerning the issue constant absence of the Dean of at hand is requested to contact the Students from his office. The Dean of Students during his office Search Committee will now be hours. ourselves, the N ott is shot.\ Mr. Gnot had previously indicated that he would provide the financial support necessary to refurbish the N ott Memorial to accomodate the Admissions Office and a pub/restaurant. In attempting to explain Mr. Gnot's change of mind, one speculator said, \Gnot got in a hot spot.\ When asked to explain this remark, he continued by saying, \Gnot's not a rot~ but he could pot his lot.\ Further investigation revealed that Mr. Gnot had been accused of being an alcoholic by other members of the Board of Directors of his firm, Gnot, Gnearly and Gnuff, who had believed him to be a teetotaler: due to this accusation, which was levelled on evidence inadvertantly supplied by Gnofs infant son, who toddled into a cocktail party at Gnot's home one Continued on Page 9

li; ·>' ·,- ~ : ' ' < \_. Page8 Traffic flow survey locates dead end After one month of observing traffic flow on the Union College campus, the Security force has located a dead end. This has been hailed as a major breakthrough in the plan offered to improve. campus traffic flow, since it is widely acknowledged that dead ends can interfere drastically with normal traffic movements. The interference becomes acute when the dead end is not marked in any way, since it necessitates the 'fl'ow of unsuspecting traffic around the corner and up against a cement wall, thereby requiring the often- tedious operation of turning around without damaging the automobile or passing students. i ' The campus dead end was discovered behind the Social Sciences building. Automobiles were seen to approftch the Social Sciences building from . the west and then to turn right behind the building only to find that the road ended at the service entrance to Schaffer Library. Many of these unfortunate automobiles caused damage to their fenders in attempts to turn around before moving onto the main road. Scene at north end of Social Sciences as recorded by traffic flow survey .. \ photo py Grt<g Cohen · The question now seems to be what is to be done with our new dead end? Initial suggestions that a sign reading \Dead End\ be placed there were rejected on the grounds that the wording was not pleasant, and_ that the campus would also be denied a frequent occasion for humor when observing the contrast between the driver's face as he wheels confidently around the SS building, and as he pulls sheepishly out after realizing he has made a mmor error m navigation. These considerations prompted the suggestion that perhaps what this campus needed was more dead ends. It was pointed out that this would prevent such violations as speeding~ since one could never know when one would round a corner and see a stone wall staring one in the grill. It would also enable Security to easily identify non-campus autos, since they would get lost the easiest. The further suggestion was made that an interlocking system of roads be constructed so that the dead ends could be changed once a week, with new campus road maps distributed through \Union's Week.\ The entire dead end concept was then acknowledged to be a dead end. Cricket research professor discovered in Steinmetz H'all An amazing discovery was made this week as maintenance men working in the basement of Steinmetz Hall uncovered a room just off the main alcove in the basement. In this room the men found Ignatz Flagellum Orthopteron, research professor at Union since I 905 and missing since 1940. It seems that Mr. Orthopteron was somehow lost in the shuffle during remodeling procedures on Steinmetz and was given up for lost in I 958. Prof. Orthopteron became so involved in his work that he was apparently ignorant of the fact that he was lost for 35 years. The college however, judging on his past performance and service to the school, assumed that he was involved in an intense reseatch project and would undoubtedly be publishing a work of major importance to the world of biology. Taking this into consideration he was tenured in the Spring of 1945 as a full time professor and the Administration overlooked the fact that for the next 30 years the good professor did not teach any of the 3600 students who signed up to· take his courses in advanced animal languages, most notably his course in \Literature of the Modern Cricket.\ The prof es so r' s research centered around the hypothesis that man descended from . the crickets and that this is traceable through the many similarities one discovers in the neurological system of these creatures. Upon emerging from his lab the professor was jumping about wiidly and beaming from ear to ear. Chronic reporters were immediately called on the scene fot an interview with Prof. Orthopteron, but all the good professor seemed to want to do was hop around the room, pausing Continued on Page 9 Search for ice rink parking continues With construction moving along on the Achilles rink, the question is now being posed of where parking space for the rink can be found on campus. According to rink manager Ned Harkness, 3,000 seats will be available ·for hockey games and 5,500 will be available for concerts. Although this number seems large, the prospects for solving the parking problem are near at hand. One idea suggested at a late- night meeting was the construction of a four-story concrete parking facility on what is now Daley Field. The consternation expressed by soccer, lacrosse and intramural personnel at this idea was not diminished by the suggestion that the_ field could be re-installed atop the parking complex. Another idea suggested was the sinking of a three-level underground parking facility under Garis Field. A tunnel could then be excavated to the Fieldhouse, and from there to the new ice rink. This idea was rejected when it was found that ·Garis Field is too hard and rocky to make a major excavation practical. A third idea suggested was the · damming and rerouting of Hans Groot. Kill and the use of the present brook channel as an access road to the ample parking space available ' in Jackson's Gardens. This idea 1s still under consideration.· A fourth' idea suggested was that Girling Center be transformed into a huge parking lot,-and a monorail. shuttle beginning at Girling Center and going to the .new ice rink. The concept was stopped in the goal crease by the discovery that Schenectady zoning laws prohibit monorails along Van V rank en Avenue. As the meeting continued on into the night, one committee member was heard to say, \Oh ~hy don't we just make that thing the only thirty4wo sided ipdoor parking lot in the western hemisphere and start from there ... \ .Mr. Achilles could not be reached for comment on this suggestion, but there was a general feeling that he would not have approved. Please send all parking ideas to the GrouQds Committee; they do not want to leave the campus parking up the wrong tree. Pub /Restaurant relocated by architects In a surprise move, the trustees have recommended moving the Pub /Restaurant from its original proposed site in the basement of Carnegi~ Hall to the room underneath the orange trap doors behind the Social Sciences building. The change, which came as ·a surprise to many people on campus, is the result of var~ous tests conducted by the architect on Carnegie Hall. The tests, thought to be merely routine, and carried out for legality's sake only, revealed that Carnegie Hall is not Continued on Page JO

1 ~ ~ • _' j .' . ! Page8 , Traffic flow survey locates dead end After one month of observing traffic flow on tlie Union College campus, the Security force has located a dead end. This has been hailed as a major breakthrough in the plan offered to improve. campus traffic flow, since it is widely acknowledged that dead ends can interfere drastically with normal traffic movements. The interference becomes acute when the dead end is not marked in any way, since it necessitates the flow of unsuspecting traffic around the corner and up against a cement wall, thereby requiring the often- tedious operation of turning around without damaging the automobile or passing students. The campus dead end was discovered behind the Social Sciences building. Automobiles were seen to approach the Social Sciences building from . the west and then to turn right behind the building only to find that the road ended at the service entrance to Schaffer Library. Many of these unfortunate automobiles caused damage to their fenders in attempts to turn around before moving onto the main road. Scene at north end of Social Sciences as recorded by traffic flow survey. q photo ]>Y Greg Cohen - The question now seems to be what is to be done with our new dead ~nd? Initial suggestions that a sign reading \Dead End .. be placed there were rejected on the grounds that the wording was not pleasant, and _ that the campus would also be denied a frequent occasion for hurno r when observing the contrast between the driver's face as he wheels confidently around the SS building, and as he pulls sheepishly out after realizing he has made a minor error m navigation. These considerations prompted the suggestion that perhaps what this campus needed was more dead ends. It was pointed out that this would prevent such violations as speeding, since one could never know when one would round a corner and see a stone wall staring one in the grill. It would also enable Security to easily identify non-campus autos, since they would get lost the easiest. The further suggestion was made that an interlocking system of roads be constructed so that the dead ends could be changed once a week, with new campus road maps distributed through \Union's Week.\ The entire dead end concept was then acknowledged to be a dead end. Cricket research professor discovered in Steinmetz H·all An amazing discovery was made this ·week as maintenance men working in the basement of Steinmetz Hall uncovered a room just off the main alcove in the basement. In this room the men found Ignatz Flagellum Orthopteron, research professor at Union since 1905 and missing since 1940. It seems that Mr. Orthopteron was somehow lost in the shuffle during remodeling procedures on Steinmetz and was given up for lost in 1958. Prof. Orthopteron became so involved in his work that he was apparently ignorant of the fact that he was lost for 35 years. The college however, judging on his past performance and service to the school, assumed that he was involved in an intense research project and would undoubtedly be publishing a work of major importance to the world of biology. Taking this into consideration he was tenured in the Spring of 1945 as a full time professor and the Administration overlooked the fact that for the next 30 years the good professor did not teach any of the 3600 students who signed up to· take his courses in advanced animal languages, most notably his course in \Literalure of the Modern Cricket.\ The professor's research centered around the hypothesis that man descended from the crickets and that this is traceable through the many similarities one discovers in the neurological system of these creatures. Upon emerging from his lab the professor was jumping about wildly and beaming from ear to ear. Chronic reporters were immediately called on the scene for an interview with Prof. Orthopteron, but all the good professor seemed to want to do was hop around the Toom, pausing Continued on Page 9 Search for ice rink parking continues With construction moving along on the Achilles rink, the question is now being posed of where parking space for the rink can be found on campus. According to rink manager Ned Harkness, 3,000 seats will be available ·for h·ockey games and 5,500 will be available for concerts. Although this number seems large, the prospects for solving the parking problem are near at hand. One idea suggested at a late- night meeting was the construction of a four-story concrete parking facility on what is now Daley Field. The consternation expressed by soccer, lacrosse and intramural personnel at this idea was not diminished by the suggestion that the, field could be re-installed atop the parking compiex. Another idea suggested was the sinking of a three-level underground parking facility under Garis Field. A tunnel could then be excavated to the Fieldhouse, and from there to the new ice rink. This idea was rejected when it was found that ·Garis Field is too hard and rocky to make a maJor excavation practical. A third idea suggested was the damming and rerouting of Hans Groot Kill and the use of the present brook channel as an access road to the ample parking space available· in Jackson's Gardens. This idea IS still under consideration.- A fourth' idea suggested was that Girling Center be transformed into a huge parking lot,-and a monorail . shuttle beginning at Girling Center and going to the .new ice rink. The concept was stopped in the goal crease by the discovery that Schenectady zoning laws prohibit monorails along Van Vranken Avenue. As the meeting continued on into the night, one committee member was heard to say, \Oh ~hy don't we just make that thing the only tJ:lirty-two sided indoor parking lot in the western hemisphere and start from there: .. \ .Mr. Achilles could not be reached for comment on this suggestion, but there was a general feeling that he would not have approved. Please send all parking ideas to the Grounds Committee; they do not want to leave the campus parking up the wrong tree. Pub /Restaurant relocated by architects In a surprise move, the trustees have recommended moving the Pub 1 Restaurant from its original proposed site in the basement of Carnegi~ Hall to the room underneath the orange trap doors behind the Social Sciences building. The .change, which came as ·a surprise to many people on campus, is the result of various tests conducted by the architect on Carnegie Hall. The tests, thought to be merely routine, and carried out . for legality's sake only, revealed that Carnegie Hall is not Continued on Page l 0 ..

ess h, , 0 n d Page9 Coffee -·--·r·---· Frankfurter -------Mustard ·. \ - \ Hamburger , F.renc_h Frles l Shake Potato Chips I Candy Bar ,. I. ·---.Cheese -Nuts ·-Bacon ;'salt l 2 Scoops Vanilla -Caramel I •I I l ----Tomato· / / -· · Ch<?cola te Sauce - I I ' I --Ketchup. Key:---(Added function) J·~eorganization. charted j - . . More administrative changes Erie grant C<n'ltinued from Page 7 organs. III: Reorganization of external affairs. It has been universally recognized that changes were needed and would be forthcoming on the French Fries. The roll of the fries, and the salt, is essential to the success of the overall objectives and strategy for change of the meal. _Without effective, well~seasoned french fries, no snack or lunch can gain broad- based appreciation from all of its recipients. In structuring an effective lunch, the basic mission is to provide a reliable mixture of coffee, frankfurter, hamburger, fries, and shake. After extensive consultation on the campus and the use of professional counsel, I am making the following changes in the French Fries: (a) Ketchup will now report directly to the fries in all lunches. (b) Ketchup will continue its application to the Hamburger. IV: Changes in the Shake. A number of changes have taken place in the\ Shake in the past week and consultants have indicated the need for still more. Yesterday, vanilla ice cream was transferred in, . replacing Heavenly Hash. Specifically, the following steps have been taken: a) The present use of strawberry sauce is being eliminated. - b) Two scoops, instead of one, will be utilized. V: Further Considerations. The need for a lively lunch requires condiments in each area. One consultant reported that the lunch was \very thinly-seasoned,~· especially at the French Fries. A study C)[ various lunch-types has just been completed by this office, and copies will be circulated and presented in the Campus Chronic to allow for feeq,back from the campus community at large. One interesting suggestion under censideration is the moving of the time of consumption to promote a longer digestive time allotment. The intention, of course, is new vitality and new mobility t-o go with a more complete digestion. VI: A Final ·Word. The administrative changes announced in this report, while in some ways sweeping, grow out of the objectives and priorities for the lunch mentioned at the outset of the report. The view I have of this lunch continues to be positive and optimistic, a lunch that is organized, with its coffee, its chips, its candy bar, a lunch alive to the need for change and responsive to More . on Gnot and the Nott Continued from Page 7 contribution to worthy causes, . such as the Nott Memorial evening dragging a bottle of Scot rehabilitation. whiskey and a shot glass and said, For three days, Gnot was not \You pwomised I could dwink got for questioning. He was finally some too, da-ddy.'' tocated in a cot on his yacht. \Caught!\ said one of the board When asked to defend himself members. The shot and the Scot against the charges made against that the tot got from Gnot spots him by his fellow board m mb t h ·h ?\ Th h b d · e ers, · e sot, W at.. e ot er oar. he said, \Gnot a sot? Rot the tot! members were m agreement that lf What got this plot? A shot of Scot is Mr. Gnot was, .as they suspected., a not for Gnot. A blot, a lot of closet alcoholt~, he be demed squat.\ Gnot later stated that all access .t~::· f~rm .. J.n,~ds for he drinks is Cott. i .. received new entrees, a lunch that is the resl!lt of hard decision-making, a lunch that ·is the result of a sensitivity to the need for a wider recognition of salary, and a lunch that is making strenuous efforts to stretch its money further. The success of this lunch will come from moving forward on all the ingredients cheese, pickles, oniorrs, and French Fries. No one can mea~ure the impact of a good lunch. This is the battle plan for the future of my lunch as I see it. I hope you share my optimism and my culinary taste. A Union College student has received the first grant ever awarded to a small liberal arts college by the Erie-Lackawanna Railroad., The grant was awarded to Harrison Mundgemind, a junior, majoring in Environmental Engineering. According to the Erie~ W. F. Enteman · Lackawanna press release, the grant will assist Mundgemind in his examination of the rate of tie- deterioration on the Erie- • • Lackawanna in the vicinity of Cricket continued Hornell, New York. Continued from Page 8 now and then in the rooms corners and violently rubbing his legs together.. Reporters were however able to elicit .a statement from the professor's assistant, Hiram, a cricket\ born of very high stature and quality. Hiram explained that for the past 35 years the professor had been travelling incognito and living among the various cricket cultures of the world. He was able to do this because of his fluent Cricket having mastered all but the most obscure dialects. In this way he was able to travel undetected in almost any cricket band. Hiram went on to say that the amount of significant data the professor had compiled in his 35 year project p:rovided conclusive evidence that the homo- sapiens did indeed descend from the crickets. \The Professor's research is a meaningful and significant contribution to the world of science and worth at least three honorary 'degrees from the Union College Department of Cricket Disciplinary Studies.\ Prof. Orthopteron stopped hopping and chirped his approval. Mundgemind, a native of Hornell, has been working on a project aimed at discovering the most suitable creosoting techniques for northeastern railroads. He chose to do his study near Hornell because he feels that Hornell weather is the most changeable in the northeast. \If a tie can make it in Hornell,\ says Mundgemind, \it can make it anywhere.\ With the help of the Erie- Lackawanna grant, M undgemind will construct a special gasoline- powered inspection car, on which he will tour the sections of trackage that he plans to examine. The underside of the car will be specially equipped with instruments to 1) label each tie next to an odometer readout for precise relocation; 2) test each tie for brittleness, dry rot, beta decay, and vandalism; 3) read off tie date nails and make correlations! between age and condition. Mundgemind had no comment when asked what he would do if he saw a freight train approaching his test car at high speed, perhaps while he was within a tunnel. Good luck, Harry.

er \ 0 0 n Page9 Coffee ·----r---- Fr·ankfurter ....,._..---Mustard I ~am burger t · F.renc.h Fries Shake Potato Chips I Candy Bar ,-· ·. Cheese -Nuts -Bacon i /,salt # , I I 2 Scoops Vanilla -Caramel ·I ·l l . I -Tomato. l I - I / r .f ~Ketchup .. ~. Ch~colate Sauce ~~eorganization charted I Key:---f Added function) More administrative. changes Erie grant Continued from Page 1 organs. III: Reorganization of external affairs. It has been universally recognized that changes were needed and would be forthcoming on the French Fries. The roll of the fries, and the salt, is essential to the success of the overall objectives and strategy for change of the meal. . Without effective, well-seasoned french fries, no snack or lunch can gain broad- based appreciation from all of its recipients. In structuring an effective lunch, the basic mission is to provide a reliable mixture of coffee, frankfurter, hamburger, fries, and shake. After extensive consultation on the campus and the use of professional counsel, I am making the following changes in the French Fries: (a) Ketchup ·will now report directly to the fries in all lunches. (b) Ketchup will continue its application to the Hamburger. IV: Changes in the Shake. A number of changes have taken place in the\ Shake in the past week and consultants have indicated the need for still more. Yesterday, vanilla ice cream was transferred in, . replacing Heavenly Hash. Specifically, the following steps have been taken: a) The present use of strawberry sauce is being eliminated. b) Two scoops, instead of one., will be utilized. V: Further Considerations. The need for a lively lunch requires condiments in each area. One consultant reported that the lunch was \very thinly-seasoned,\ especially at the French Fries. A st11dy of various lunch-types has just been completed by this office, and copies will be circulated and presented in the Campus Chronic to allow for feeqback from the campus community at large. One interesting suggestion under consideration is the moving of the time of consumption to promote a longer digestive time allotment. The intention, of course, is new vitality and new mobility to go with a more complete digestion. VI: A Final · Word. The administrative changes announced in this report, while in some ways sweeping, grow out of the objectives and priorities for the lunch mentioned at the outset of the report. The view I have of this lunch continues to be positive and optimistic, a lunch that is organized, with its coffee, its chips, its candy bar, a lunch alive to the need for change and responsive to !)fore on Gnot and the Nott contribution to worthy causes, . such as the N ott Memorial Continued from Page 7 evening dragging a bottle of Scot rehabilitation. whiskey and a shot glass and said, For three days, Gnot wa~ not ·~you pwomised I could dwink got for questioning. He was finally .some too, daddy.\ located in a cot on his yacht. \Caught!'' said one of the board When asked to defend himself members. The shot and the Scot against the charges made against that the tot got from Gnot spots him by his fellow board m mb h h ?'' T. h h b · d · e ers, t e sot, w at.. e ot er oar,. he sa1d, \Gnot a sot? Rot the tot! members were m agreement that lf What got this plot? A shot of Scot is Mr. Gnot was, _as they suspected_, a not for Gnot. A blot, a lot of closet alcohoh~, he be demed squat.\ Gnot later stated that all access .t~~:, fHm,,,,,f,~nds for hedtinksisCott. • received new entrees, a lunch that is the resi!lt of hard decision..,making, a lunch that 1s the result of a sensitivity to the need for a wider recognition of salary, and a lunch that is making strenuous efforts to stretch · its money further. The success of this lunch will come from moving forward QU all the ingredients cheese, pickles, onions, and French Fries. No one can mea~ure the impact of a good lunch. This is the battle plan for the future of my lunch as I see it. I hope you .share my optimism and my culinary taste. A Union College student has received the first grant ever awarded to a small liberal arts college by the Erie-Lackawanna Railroad.,The grant was awarded to Harrison M undgemind, a junior, majoring in Environmental Engineering. According to the Erie- W . F . Enteman . Lackawanna press release, the grant will assist Mundgemind in his examination of the rate of tie- deterioration on the Erie- • • Lackawanna in the vicinity of Cricket con tlnued Hornell, New York . Continued froll.'l Page 8 now and then in the rooms corners and violently rubbing his legs together. . Reporters were however able to elicit a statement from the professor's assistant, Hiram, a cricket' born of very high stature and quality. Hiram explained that for the past 35 years the professor had been travelling incognito and living among the various cricket cultures of the world. He was able to do this because of his fluent Cricket having mastered all but the most obscure dialects. In this way he was able to travel undetected in almost any cricket band. Hiram went on to say that the amount of significant data the professor had compiled in his 35 year project pTovided conclusive evidence that the homo. sapiens did indeed descend from the crickets. \The Professor's research is a meaningful and significant contribution to the world of science and worth at least three honorary ·degrees from the Union Coll'ege Department of Cricket Disciplinary Studies.\ Prof. Orthopteron stopped hopping and chirped his approval. Mundgemind, a native of Hornell, has been working on a project aimed at discovering the most suitable creosoting techniques for northeastern railroads. He chose to do his study near Hornell because he feels that Hornell weather is the most changeable in the northeast. \If a tie can make it in Hornell,\ says Mundgemind, \it can make it anywhere.\ With the help of the Erie- Lackawanna grant, M undgemind will construct a special gasoline- powered inspection car, on which he will tour the sections of trackage that he plans to examine. The underside of the car will be specially equipped with instruments to 1) label each tie next to an odometer readout for precise relocation; 2) test each tie for brittleness, dry rot, beta decay, and vandalism; 3) read off tie date nails and make correlations ~· between age and condition. M undgemind had no comment when asked what he would do if he saw a freight train approaching his test car at high speed, perhaps while he was within a tunnel. Good luck, Harry.

,.)1 .:,' ' 'i I .; Page 10 Transportation. program Today's transportation expert appealed his case to an ad hoc needs to know far more than how committee appointed to investigate to build a highway. the charges brought against him. In line with this philosophy, If found innocent; McHalftrack Union College has recently will attempt to enlarge the announced a new program program by purchasing two Mack designed to aid prospective job ten-wheelers to be used tn hunters in finding suitable conjunction with a similar ·employment. According to Angus program, begun last year at McHalftrack, director of the Skidmore. A truckers' mixer with program, Union will be one of the the ,\Skiddies\ is planned for May first small private liberal arts 10 in the middle of the Achi:Jles coiieges to incorporate a field of rink. If found guilty, M.cHalftrack study designed to teach the art of has expressed the desire to leave \driving the big rigs.\ This unique Union and embark upon a career new course of study, says in free .. lancejournalism. McHalftrack, \represents a comprehensive approach to the problems that beset transportation today.\ Through the \Big Rig\ program, the trucker of today and tomorrow can focus on such topics as chain- gang fighting, techniques of over- eating, and changing flat tires. The program emphasizes new trends and priorities in transportation, but it does not neglect such traditional courses as \theory of traffic flow\ and \parallel parking.\ The program is designed to beat the inflationary crunch. Rather than paying a set fee per course, we'll pay you $10 for every hour you spend in training. Plans are now under construction for incorporating this program into the liberal arts curriculum at the college but has been slowed by.. charges of moral turpitude among the program directors. According to reliable sources, McHalftrack was recently seen fondling a deisel smokestack. Angus vehemently denied these allegations and was quoted as saying, \I was· just messin' around.\ \Goombah as he is referred to by his friends, has Summer job Instead of pumping gas or ringing up sales on a cash register, wouldn't you rather spend the summer working in Siberia'! Opportunities for students are available in many jobs, ranging from work gangs to slave labor. For several years, the American- Siberian Stu~ent Service has helped American students take advantage of these opportunities, and due t~ past success, this year there are more jobs available than ever before. Besides room, board, and a shovel, participating students will receive first hand experience of life in a Siberian work camp. Having requested American students for their experiments, Russian KGB employers are particularly anxious to help them in their work and all other aspects of their stay - whether it be two months ... or twenty years. • Applications are now being accepted. For further information or applications, write to: American~Siberian Student Service Box CCCP Vladivostock, USSR WE A:RE AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER. _ More Pub Continued from Page 8 structurally sound enough to accommodate a Pub/ Restaurant in the basement. Crankcase o~Schlockmire, Civil Engineer, has stated that th-e congestion of people that a Pub/ Restaurant will bring to the basement will cause an aerocynamic pressure increase greater than that which the walls are able to contain. According to O'Schlockmire, this weakness in Carnegie Hall should have been reckoned with by the planners of the Pub/Restaurant. He cited a report which was submitted at the time of the original refurbishing of Carnegie Hall into a student center. At that time, planners were considering the installation of a bowling alley in the basement. O'Schlockmire, when asked to recommend alternate site, chose the room under the orange doors. When pressed for his reasons, he stated that the space under consideration would be warm year round, would be structurally sound, and would have the added bonus of being an instant air raid shelter. in the news Librarian Bland McTwit, who has been missing for severar weeks, was found yesterday in the 1928 New York Times microfihn drawer. -When interviewed by a Chronic reporter, McTwit commented: \Have I missed lunchT' Byone Knuckles has recently published a short monograph entitled The Politics of Paraguay and other Collected Fantasies. Hans Fraud has been selected by the Adirondack 46ers Peak Climbers as an h~norary member due to his heroic attempt to scale the Humanities Building in an effort to reach his office. Mark Smith has been awarded Man of the Year by National Lampoon Magazine. Frank Zappa, who presented the award, commented, \This man's ideas boggle the mind.\ Angus McHalftrack san: \Get smart, learn to drive the big rigs and earn the respect of the college community.\ .Job openings on campus Monument Maintenance Man, Grade II Duties: Maintaining the dignified· appearance of Chester A. Arthur. A. Removing pigeon .. droppings from forehead and right hand of said statue; B. Removing dropping of · said statue from nearby sidewalk; D. Discouraging dogs from defecating at the\{>ase of said statue. , Qualifications: Must be able to comb and cut bronze hair and manicure bronze finger and toenails. Must have grade school diploma or honorary degree from Union College with at least a 320 on the verbal SAT. Two or three years experience recommended. Hours: Monday through Friday, 8:30-4:45 and whenever nature calls Contact: C.A. MaGill, Jr., Business Office Stucco Inspector, Class IV Duties: Patrol campus daily in an .effort to ascertain the condition of the stucco on the various campus structures. Must make weekly report to Henry Schaffer and- submit r~commendations on stuccoability of all campus objects which have not moved in the preceding week, including such fixtures as the front doors of the Student Center, and the zero under \Union\ on the football scoreboard. Qualifications: . Must have superior black-and-white v1s10n, and have a BA degree from the Stucco Haven Institute of TechnQlogy, or an honorary degree from the Union. College Department of Aesthetics. Must have stuccoed at · least three other small private liberal arts college campuses . Hours: 10:00 pm until dawn; also rainy or overcast days. Contact: Jacques Ramee, via Ouija board, between the hours of 8:30 and 4:45. Assistant Dean of Canine Discipline Duties: Instruction of dogs in technique of anal retension and urinary discretion. To escort unlicensed dog~. off campus and provide escort service for Union College dogs back to jheir dorms between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 8:00a.m. Requirements: Must be in good physical condition, must have discretion ·and good rapport with dogs. Previous experience with dogs at other schools required. Salary: Either one case of Milk Bones or twelve cans of flea soap . Contact: Dean of Students, Old Gym Hall. Next issue: Aug. 35 Copy deadline: Aug. 36 - Stories for Campus Chronic shouUI be sent to the East Side Waste Paper Company, Scotia, New York.

n· , d h h CONCORDIENSIS, Wednesday, April30; 1975 Page 11 B - .. u· · ·T · ·· .·_. . ::;::·_·.-~-BED- There will be a Very important but short meeting for all Orientation Advisors on Thursday, May 1, at 4:30 in Old Chapel. AU .effort should be made to attend; anyone who cafl riot attend please contact Mrs. -Snowden in Student Activities at 6118, Han:iet Kaplan at 6481, or Bill Talis at 346-9688. * * * * Original• artwmk (graphics, photography) is now being accepted for the second issue of The Idol. Please submit material to the Idol box in the Student Activities Office, Old Gym Hall. If you have .any questions, call Nina (370~6522). or .. Lynn (370-6478). * * * * Any students d'esiring a seat on one of the Glee Club buses to Lincoln Center should sign up on the list in Student _ Activities. The buses will leave from in front of Memorial Chapel at . noon on Wednesday, May 7, and ·return immediately foHowing the concert. The round-trip ride will cost $5.00. * * * * Programmers are needed for the Union College Cour-s.e Evaluation. If you know or are just learning COBOL, please see Robin Waring, 1644 Foster Ave. 372-1449, immediately ... * * * * . The Fourth Annual Chi Psi Schenectoga Beer Rally will be held on Wednesday, May 7, at 9:1S PM. For entry forms contact Mitch Singer at 346~9829. t * * * * This Year's Third Annual Chi Psi Spring· Happening will feature the Wild Wild. West. The Chi Psi saloon will be open oh Ftiday, May 16 and Saturday, May 17. Tickets go on sale Friday, May 2 and may be purchased from any brother of the Lodge. * * * * The next meeting of the Student-Faculty Bridge Club will be held on Thursday, May 8, at 7:45 in Hale House. Please note the change of date and place. The results of the last tou:mament were: E-W First Place: Warner and Desrochers. E-W Second Place: Mills and Millman. N-S First Place: Baker and Wingerath.- N-S Second Place: Lee and White. * * * * . By special arrangement, graduates of Union in science or engineering have been invited to apply for the position of Lecteur Etranger on the Faculte des Sciences at Angers, France. This position, which is similar to an American graduate teaching fellowship, provides a stipend and an opportunity to pursue 'individual- research in return for 12 hours a y;eek of instruction in technical English for French Students. Further information may be obtained from Prof. Alan Roberts, Dept. of Modern Languages. This award is competitive. Applications must be made as soon as possible. Only a minimum knowledge of French is needed. * * * * Anyone interested in sailing, either day sailing or small bo~t racing, with the Union College Sailing Club, please call Peter at 346-9735. If not in, please leave a message. It is important that we know the amount of interest on campus to be able to plan for the future of the club. * * * * Parents Weekend Lunch, catered by Maurice's, will be on Sat. May 10. Pick up tickets inStudent Activities,$1.00 each. Basie concert tickets are free of charge. * * * * A -reminder to all Photo Society Members. The outdoor photo exhibit has been scheduled for Saturday, May lO on Library Plaza. Members who want to enter any of their work, please remember to get it together by Thursday, May 8. Both darkrooms are fully functional and orders are being taken in the library for p~per. * * * * \lsr~eli Dancing will be held every Tuesday at 8:30 p.m. in Arts 202. Anyone interested, whether beginner or advanced, is welcome. · * * * * On Thurs .. May 8, at 8:30 p.m., Prof. Dwight Perkins of Harvard will lecture in SS016 on \Observations of Modern (hina's Economy.\ At a time when our relation with the PRC is rapidly changing, . Prof. Perkins is well-positioned to report on those changes, and in particular, on their relation to change in China's economic .policy. For further information contact B;uce Reynolds. Sponsored by the Comparative Communist Studies Program. * * * * Join 'in the Easter Seal's BlKE-A-THON. Ride, so a crippled child may walk. Be at Central Park on Sunday, May 18. from 10 am to 4 pm. There will be free food, music, and prizes. Bike-a-thon is sponso~ed by Phi Delta Theta. For more i-nformation cal1346-9730. Information and registration materials may be obtained from the Student Activities .Office. * * * * IMPORT ANT: Students who have not picked up their combinations are asked to please do so. All off-campus and Frat. students now have boxes. Come to the mailroom sometime between 10:30 a.m. and I 2 noon to get your· combination. Please check boxes regularly; some of the boxes are· getting quite full. · Mailroom policies have now been established concerning mass mailings: I. Absolutely no mass mailings will be permitted for commercial purposes. 2. If any office or organization forsees a large mailing they are asked to give the room at least three days notice. by leaving a note on the mailtoom .door pad. 45 pieces of mail constitutes a large mailing. This procedure is only temporary, but it will aid in the smooth operation of the mailroom. 3. All mass mailings (i.e. every box is stuffed) may be done at the following times: Mon. l-3 pm, Tues. 1-3 pm. Weds. 2:30-4 pm. . New Computer ('ontinued from ~~e I sophisticated Master Con~rol Program (MCP) so that many jobs can be executed concurrently. The actual (computing~ time of the computer is sliced up and used by the various jobs in a rotating fashion, thereby minimizing idle time of the comp_uter while maximizing the use of all of the machines resources. As far as hardware resources go, there are presently six disc drives, two 1200~line-per-ininute · line printers, two 140-0\Ca~:d-per­ minute car<l readers, a 600-card- per-minute line printers, two 1400-card-per-minute card readers, a 600-card-per-minute !;lard punch and five magnetic tape drives wich can read a magnetic tape while spinning in either direction. For now one card reader has Hillel Union College Hillel will hold .a Sabbath dinner on Friday night, May 9, beginning at 6:30 p.m. in Hale House. Students are invited to bring their parents and any other guests. The cost of this d.inner will be $2.50 PC!r person. The guest speaker for the dinner will be Union College President, Dr. Thomas Bonner; he will discuss his first year here at Union, and some plans for the future. Reservations are due by Wednesday, May 7, to Bob Kaslovsky, 116 Fox, 370-6456. May l 6 and 17 is the Jewish holiday of Shavuot, commemorating the receiving of the Torah on Mount Sinai by Moses. Hillel will hold Kidush at West College dining hall at 6:00 p.m. on both Thursday and Friday evening. On Saturday night, May 17. Hillel along with the Union Christian Fellowship will hold a square dance, beginning at 9:00 p.m. in Old Chapel. Admission is free to all, and refreshments will be served. Also. the Christi~n fellowship has challenged Hillel to a co-ed softball game. Any Hillel member interested in playing should contact Bob Kaslovsky, 370-6456 for details. The Date and time will be announced next week in Concordy. Since the year's end is near, it will soon be time to elect officers for next year. Elections will be held on Wednesday, May 28, at 7:30 p.m., tentatively m Humanities 016. Israeli dancing is held each Tuesday evening at 8:30 in Arts 104. Shabbat services are held each Friday night at 8:00 p.m. in ~trauss Lounge. All are welcome to both. TYPING Reasonable Rates Fast Service 393-2233 THE FILM COMMITTEE presents THE WAY WE WERE Robert Redford and Barbra Streisand are excellent in. this rom-antic love story. Streisand is a frizzy-hai~ed communist and Redford is a straw- haired jock out to have a good time ... \Streisand acts her head off. . . she . gives the movie performance of her life.~ Gene Shalit. Sat., May 3 7, 9, 11 pm Sun. May 4 7, 9, 1l pm 75(1: SSOl6 been put in the student area for student use. Also an. older keypunch has been moved into the student area as an .. express\ keypunch for ten cards or less. An exciting new feature nearing implementation is time-sharing. As opposed to punching a job on cards a person si.mply sits down at a keyboard and keys in his job on a teletype or cathode ray tube (CRT). After debugging his program the student can have the output. come back to him or be printed out on the line printer. The advantages of running in this mode are that the computer responds nearly instantly to anything keyed in and many people can key in jobs simultaneously. The computer can communicate with each and return in a rotating fashion to ot~er tasks between communications. The only limitations are hardware and the decision as to how 'long a communications lag is .acceptable. This communications lag becomes greater as more terminals run. The possibility of time-sharing \ terminals being put up all over cl,lmpus has already drawn much speculation and, although the computer is supposedly capable of supporting sixteen terminals or mote, the problem of communication lag depends on the type and amount of terminals operating. Since each installation has its own peculiarities, the future is hopeful but uncertain. Items such as grant-in-aid operator staff size, operating hours, and terminal number a~e up in the air. There are many certainties, tho11gh, such as the creation and expansion of the Computer Science curriculum, increased throughput of jobs, broader language capabilities, student job work files, and the expansion of computer use by departments such as Poli Sci and others. Calendar Continued from . Page I immersion c.ourse be:tween Thanksgiving and Christmas, eleven week Winter term, eight- nine week two course Spring term. This calendar would also begin school on September 7th and end May 25th . Modular Split Te11m Plan: (3-1-2-3) This year would consist of an eleven week Fall term ending prior to Thanksgiving, three week immersion course between 'Thanksgiving and Christmas, eight-nine week two course 'Winter term, and an eleven. week Spring term of three courses. The schedule would be the same as the 4-3-2 and the 3-1-3-2. It should be noted that all these plans enable us to get out earlier and provide maximum flexibility for things like a Thesis, independent study, and course scheduling. Underthe 4-3-2, finals are de-emphasized and all of us at Dean Smith's house felt that these calendars would reduce Union's pressure packed atmosphere. The final calendar to be presented is the status quo trimester plan. As we all know this consists of three terms of eleven weeks each. We would start on September 23rd. and end June 8th for the 76- 77 calendar year. The Senate may choose to retain the status quo. At any rate, it is strongly suggested that if you have any questions on any of these calendars, you should contact any •,.v • Florentine Hestauran t 108 Jay Street Enioyour Italian-American Cuisine at Reasonable Prices · Specialty of the House - Veal Union College Students Always Welcome one who participated in their formation at Dean Smith's house for more detailed explanations. They are as follows: Faculty and Administration Dean Mark Smith Prof. Robert Schaefer Prof. Arnold Bittleman Prof. Edward Craig Prof. Norman Walbek Debbie Kilgus Becky Kershner Students Wendy Solovay Adele Reichlinger Adrienne Carlyle Andy Koblenz Paul M agaril Margie Kohn Sue Lein Karen Spar Matt Brief Dave Eilbott Howie Lax Mitch Mindlin Allison Brickley ' A Search Committee for the Dean of Faculty has been formed. Those serving on the Committee are E.J. Craig (Professor of Electrical Engineering), C. W. Huntley {Professor of Psycholl)gy), Amy Juster, Robert Mondschein, Ken Stone (students), Helen Testroet (Professor of Classics), William Thomas, Don Thurston, the President, and the Provost. Newest Lunch 71'5 ALBANY ST. The oldest lunch in the area. More than SO years we-serve First Prize l10t doas with tbe odtinal fiUIIous saute. Also different special dinners e-veryday. We are · open 7 days a week - weekend till 4. Visit Newest Lunch. Good Dlace to Eat. - . , I .:·-::::::::::;::::::::::::~:::::::::::::::::::::::;:::;:::::::::::::::!:::::::!:!:!:!:!:;:;:::;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::!:!:!;:~:~ \!~\ Mauriee· B. Graubart a Sons N :::: .,,,._ ·'*'· Ji.•• ... ok.,.' :;:; ~ . ~ f 'Serving ~r ;\!~ Union ~~~~ :·:· For Three :::: i ~:';:~ti;:.·· I ~~;~: For Honest Service ~~j: ~\\~\and Good Je'Yelry HERSHEL MAURICE B WALTER 1 , • • •·- • , .- .. , • • t •• •·• .,.y,.-.rw~•rw• • • • .,..-,•,-;---••,•,••••'•'•'•'•~1 ~:.~~:;:::~:~:~:~:~=~=~=~=~:::~=~=~=~:::!:!:::~:!::::::::::!:::::t:::::•t•:::.:-:-:-:·:•:·:·: .. :·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:~:·: .. :·:·:·:·:•.•!•.•.·:·.·~·.·················· ..

Page 12 CONCORDIENSJS, Wednesday, Apri/30, 1975. v n THE CABARET is an alternative form of entertainment for the Union College Community. Both performers and customers should be able to find here what they cannot elsewhere - quiet conversation, good food at very reasonable prices, live entertainment of all types and forms, and an atmosphere of relaxation. ln order to attain the Cabaret's ideals, we have found that certain methods of operation are essential. For example: ADMISSION is now by ticket, purchased at the door up to !12-hour before each show at the desk in the lobby. As at movie theaters, a ticket holders' line will form against the Cabaret walL This, hopefully, will do away with . crowding outside the door and make for a more relaxed evening for those who come early enough to get tickets. Regretfully, we can only admit 75 people per show. ONE DOLLAR is the price. 80¢ of this goes for food, the rest, for buying and replacing equipment. In addition, $25 per week goes to: THE CABARET SCHOLARSHIP FUND which will allow Union Students to attend dramatically related experiences over the summer. Anyone is eligible - report your name and your intentions to The Cabaret mailbox in Student Activities by May 22, 1975. Remember, all our profits go to this fund, ~-------------------------. MENU Tuesday Night Sundaes Pastries Tea , ~ Coffee> Punch ~. Peanuts! 30¢ 15¢-30¢ 15 PERFORMANCES at the Cabaret know practically no bounds. We have had everything from Jugglers to One- Act-Plays; Night Club Jazz Singers to Folk Guitar. This year is almost booked up but if you would like to pl~y or read or act we can guarantee a date in next fall's schedule. Sign up on the Cabaret Bulletin Board. f GAME NIGHT is every Tuesday from 9 pm to 1 am. We have games (or bring. your own), ice cream, coffee, tea, and quiet recorded music (or live if anyone would like to play - NO Sign-Up or Audition needed). Game Night is already sponsoring t1 ohess tournament and a Monopoly Tourney is on the way . QUESTIONS? Maybe this ad has answered any you had. If there are any more (or any suggestions) please feel free to write them down and put them in the Cabaret Mailbox in Student Activivities. NOW, A QUESTION FOR YOU!!! The Cabare~ needs workers - waiting people, kitchen help, constructiOn and repair, MC's, performers, organizers, disorganizers, and all anmnd good people. Please help us if you can. Sign up on the Cabaret Bulletin Board. MENU Thursday Night Beer Wine Fruit Punch $1.00/ pitcher $1.00 I carafe 75¢/pitcher Peanuts- unlimited Cheese- 35¢/extra serving WEEKLY SPECIALS: 25¢ .. 30¢ FREE with ticket- 1st bevera2e w I cheese ·---- CABARET SCHEDULE - SPRING TERM 1975 -- __ _, MAY lst - \Knockings\ - an origmal one-act-play by a dramatic troupe from SUNY at Purchase PLUS Howie Grossberg's __ ,... farewell; with Michelle Mesticelli and others. MAY 8th - COMEDY REVUE by Les Goldstein and Brad Barry PLUS The Return of SANTI's JAZZ TROUPE. MAY 9th- SPECIAL PARENT's WEEKEND SHOW- The return of HELENA BINDER MAY 15th - \The Dock Brief' - an original play directed by Joseph Millett MAY 22nd - \An Evening of Kurt Weill\ - FIRST SHOW ONLY - Song and Dance. SECOND SHOW: .the return of NANCY LEVINTHAL, KAREN MANNO, and BECKY WHITE. MAY 29th - \Childhood\ - One-act-play directed by Lee Blcmnuosen PLUS the Professional Talents of DA WNTREAD ER. . AND IN JUNE, another one-act-play PLUS: THE FOXY LADIES!! An stu1 in 1 I citi mo Ha bee ins isn pe the Or the rar pe' thl ne sh: sy~ Cl ste R1 40 0 qt vi cc P< 01 R dt dt UJ v h tl a tr a

CONCORDlENSlS, Wednesday, 30, 1975 Page 13 Peter Camejo, the Socialists Workers' Party .candidate for President, spoke to afull audience in SS 016 this past Mqnday. Camejo is the first designated candidate of any political party. Author Fitzgerald defends Vietcong The following are excerpts from an interview conducted with . Frances Fitzgerald on April 28. Q: Why did the Thieu regime collapse so quickly? Was it.due to a lack of U.S. aid or was it something more fundamental? A: The way in which it collapsed demonstrates that there's something fundamental about it, because if it were simply a question of lack of American aid. what you might have seen was a tremendous lot of fighting, like Ban Me Thuot, the government actually asked them to flee. Secondly ... every single time that the North Vietnamese have come into a city ... that place has been bombed. So people are running from Hue the way they'd run from it once before. Thirdly, there is a sort of panic ... People. don't \'know what to expect and there is a sort of mass reaction. American reporters interviewed literally hundreds of Of, ••• the regime has fallen without even being pushed ... It collapsed of its own weight ... and lack of any real direction ... \ a last-ditch stand by units who were dedicated to the anti- Communist struggle, a resistance in an effective form. What you've seen in the last few days is that the regime has fallen without even being pushed ... It collapsed of its own weight ... and lack of any real direction. Q: If the Ihieu regime was so bad, why are the people running away from the Communists and toward Saigon? A: There are several very good reasons for that. First, in places refugees. Never cQuld they find people who'd say \We're running from the Communists.\ They ~·~re running just out of fear. Q: But what about the stories of North Vietnamese atrocities? A: This image of North Yietnam as this disciplined, mdustrialized place is simply not true at all. It's the most underdeveloped country I've ever been in, including the South .... Precisely what they do not want to do is create their own government in the South. What they see is the creation of an indigenous Southern government which . will negotiate with Hanoi for an eventual reunification of the country. But that is going to take a long time. Q: In •'Fire in the Lake\ you said that Americans don't learn from history, that they see things simply in terms of a straight-line progression. Have we learned anything from Vietnam? · A: It's going to take a real potitical shift for the government to learn anything. I think that the American people have learned a certain amount. The polls show they don't support military aid to the South and they don't support military aid to almost anywhere. \ ... I really think seriously that American policy has been directed toward creating a massacre. L.O.J. Center offers help A: There have been no confirmed atrocity stories. Indeed. what the Embassy put out and what CBS unwittingly and stupidly reported, they claimed a massacre of 200 people in Ban Me Thuot ... On that day, the AR VN, the Air Force, was bombing that place and the 200 dead were bomb victims. · Other reports that the Embassy has are third-hand, strictly unconfirmed. often not even place names attached to this. This is the last effort of (Ambassador to S. VieJnam) Graham Martin to prove that he was right. I mean not only militarily, not only the usual massacre, but making a political settlement so difficult as to create as much bloodshed Special to Concordiensis An option exists for Union students wishing to get involved in community service projects. A group of concerned local citizens. operating out of a modest storefront office on a Hamilton Hill street corner, has been working for the past year to insure that justice in Schenectady isn't handed out depending on a person's wealth. Calling themselves the Citizens for Law, Order, and Justice (in response to the law and order mentality which ran rabid some time back), these people were disturbed.by the fact that many of their less privileged neighbors were often getting the shaft from our criminal justice system. Father Murphy, UColl Chaplain. is on the group's steering committee, and Bob Ruggeri '74 runs their office· at 40 I Summit A venue. The Law, Order, and Justice Center (l. 0. J. for short) is quickly becoming a strong and viable force working in conjunction with the courts, police and the defendant. It works on several fronts; the Lewi Tonks Revolving Bail Fund . aliows defendants to · prepare their defense outside of jail by putting up the necessary bail for them. Very often bail is set at only a few hundred dollars which can mean the difference ·between freedom a~d rotting in jail while awaiting tnal. And even if bail is set at around a hundred dollars, it might as well be a million for the poor person without the necessary collateral for a commercial bondsman. Another service the Center performs is counseling for those who are in jail or have been recently released. A common requirement for parole is that the inmate have a job, but obviously he can't get one from behind bars. (Ask any recent UColl alumnus how easy it is to find work and you can imagine what a degree from Green Haven. Dannemora or Attica will do for you.) Johnny White. the Centet's director, is in charge of its program to help ex.- offendets. According to White, .. Our program is off to a fine start. We;re working with the Chamber i>f Commerce to line up employers who'll hire these guys <>nee they get out. The fact that the people we've placed in positions are doing fine work for their employers already has been encouraging other businesses. Everyone is finally realizing that the ex-offender can be a very valuable employee because he often feels that he has to prove himself on the job.\ Another facet of the L .0. J . 's operations is counseling the many people wl'ro turn to its facilities for help when they feel confused or frightened by criminal proceedings. The people at the Center assist the defendant and his family in handling these crises and often will call a related public service agency, such as the People's Advisory Service or Schenectady Community Action Program. if the situation warrants it. The Center, which only has th.ree full time staff members, w1shes to expand the scope of its work to provide a more comprehensive answer to the nroblems facing Hamilton Hilrs THE-· BlOODMOBilE Will be ·at Union from tt:oo. until 5:J)O on · Thursday, May 8 and 9:00 until 3:00 on Friday, May 9. - residents. A beginning will be the summer program for about two dozen of the area's most difficult kids - the ones who simply don't fit into the conventional activities of a Boys Club. With federal funding the Center hopes to provide work for these d'etinquents by starting up some community. improvement projects. Volunteers can work with them as art or music instructors or in an unlimited va'riety of activites. Obviously, the L. 0. J. Center is trying to cover a-lot of bases in its attempt to improve the lot of the area's residents. Robert Ruggeri reports that any students who would like to take advantage of this opportunity to work in the criminal justice system should contact him at 346-2774 or 393- 2510. Pre-law students, Psych, Poli Sci, Sociology and American Studies majors should find this experience particularly relevant to their studies. Fitzgerald Continued from Page 1 vulnerable to a coup, because such structures constitute a weapon that might be turned against him. 1 n fact, most of our aid programs seem counterproductive to Ms. Fitzgerald, for \instead of creating strong governments, we've ended up creating a large number of weak ones.\ But many American companies have a vested ·interest in keeping such g0vernments weak; if there is no local interference, they can exploit the natural resources of these countries and thus turn huge profits. Needless to say, •hese companies have .a great deal of influence on the American Toe socks 1 government. The speaker col}cluded that although Americans euphemistically refer to our poorest neighbors as \developing nations,\ the aim of IN YOUR SCHOOL COLORS. LOOKS t GREAT WITH SANDALS Only $3.50 p /p Postage Paid, send to: ED'S QUALITY SOCKS ·P.O. BOX 6144 SCHENECTADY, N.Y.l2306 our foreign policy has been to retard such development. 'I t l GEORGE'S MUSIC STORE Student Discounts 508 State St. Schenect~dy I really think seriously that American policy has been directed toward creating a massacre. I mean not only militarily, not only the usual massacre, but mai,Y.ng a political settlement so difficult as to create as much bloodshed as possible, Q: What kind of government is likely to emerge in the next few weeks? A: This will be an interim government. It will be in charge of ... negotiating with the Peoples' Revolutionary Government for the creation of a mechanism to carry out elections. Q: What kind of elections? A: National elections for a new government. Q: Multi-party? A: Probably. Q: A couple of nights ago, Eric Severeid mentioned that the tough, disciplined North Vietnamese would have a rough time managing the easygoing Southerners. Is this likely? as possible ... \ Q: What is the source of the adverse ·world reaction to our withdrawal of support from the South Vietnamese? Do you think that people like Marcos are denouncing us just to ·goad us to step up aid to their countries? A: You know what Marcos wants: he wants us to pay him for having those bases there. That's all he's interested in. It's the same with South Vietnam too. We've just been paying Thieu off and all these generals. for years and years and years. What are we going to do. anyway? Go in with ; the 'troops and bombers again? Q: How badly has our prestige been damaged by the Communist take-over of the South? A: It's only down because Continued on Page 14 DON'T MISS THE MERV GRIFFIN SHOW l MONDAY, MAY 5 4:30pm on CHANNEL 10 TRANSCENDENTAL MEDITATION.fTM) is th~ topic of discussion for this program, which Merv Griffin des~nbes as. \the most extraor~inary show we have ever done.\ Metv, who re~ently began TM htmself, has as his guests. Maharishi :;;; Mahesh Yogt, founder of the TM movement in the u s Actress/TM teacher Ellen <;orby (\Grandma\ on THE WAL TONS), Dr. Harold Bloomfield, psychiatrist and co-author of the book, TM. DISCOVERING INNER ENERGY AND OVER~OMING STRE~S, and California State Senator Arlen Gregono. a two-year medttator. The show will be televised in .Room N- 210 in the Engineering & Science Center INTRODUCTORY ONTM LECTURE Wednesday, May 7 8 PM in Strauss Lounge Presented by Union College SIMS Club

J>.age 14 Community Centrtr by AMY TITUS Approximately one year ago, a community center called \The Union Street People's Experiment\ was opened in the Schenectady Boys Club building at 411 Union Street. Although the cctuer caters to junior and senior high school students, the manager~. :\I r. and Mrs. Nelson- bowne. mvlle Interested college stude~ts to participate and help organiZe the1r programs. There are classes in photog~:aphy, dance, karate, wrestling,_ wood-work~ng and crafts; HI wmter recr:eat10n i~cludcs basketball, pool, and pmg-pong. Hcsidc~ these activities there i\ a nt11spapcr. a l:afc, and a Jai.l ~c~~wn every Sunday afternoon at the center. Union students are encouraged to call or visit; the Nelson-bownes will be happy to answer any questions. If a student wishes to start his or her own program, this is also acceptable. It might be done through the agency of an independent study. This summer the community center will be operating a day camp, free buses to Saratoga, and various other programs. Mike Van Hatten needs volunteers to assist in an experimental gardening project in co-operation with 4-H. It will involve working with five to ten kids for five to seven hours every week. planting a garden and harvesting the crops. The produce grown will be deiFivered to a Rott~rdam marlcet. or more mformat10n concerning the center and possible summer and fall term projects. call 374-8822 and ask for the Nelson-bownes or Mike Van Hatten. Governance ( ·ontinued from Page 1 the committee set-up of the new measur-e prohibited the faculty from exercising a majority on committees which are concerned with academic affairs. \The faculty\. argued Sharlet, \has traditionally held a majority on such committees ... the anomalies in the proposed committee structure ... do not adequately take into consideration the experience of the faculty in deciding curricular affairs.\ The only substantive accomplishment of the meeting was the acceptance of an amendment to the report. The amendment states that along with an increas.e -in student membership on the Senate from six to ten, which appears in the original draft. membership is to be increased from twelve to fourteen; this insures the faculty of a membership majority of one over students and administrators combined. This amendment, as well as all other aspects of the report on governance, will be brought up for a final vote at the next All-College Senate meeting. THE FILM COMMITTEE .... presents James Cagney Jean Harlow zn PUBLIC ENEMY MAY6 8&tOPM 50¢ SS016 r CONCORDIENSfS .. Wednesday, ·committee on Com-mittees By LEE RIMSKY In light of yesterday's Senate meeting, the Committee on · Committees wi'U proceed in the · following manner in regard to selecting committee ·members for next year. First. it will he assumed that · the new governance p.roposal, and · the committees it creates, will be implemented and in o,pera-tian next year. Thus, the com.mittee members appointed this term will automatically be appointed to the corresponding committee under the new government. committees. If a new ·committee combines the responsibilities and fa~us of two old committees, for instance, the applications for the two old committees will be transferred to the pool of app·lications for the new committee. The deadline for the applications to the old committees, as they were described in last weeks CoHcordy, has been extended to Friday, May 2. Students from Celestial Cloud Comp. Ed 00 cram for mid-terms. Second. the applications th;J.t have already been .accepted will remain valid. The Comtnittee on Committees will trimsfer the applications for the odd committees to the new Next we!;:k's Co11c:otdy will contain an outline of the new committees and a discussion of which old comm.ittees will be sHbsumed by new committees. 'h will also include a description of the Comp. Ed., .Curricular Affairs. and Budget ahd Priorities committees, which wen: left 0\11 of the previous issue. Applications for these three committees and certain of the new committee!) only, will be ~.vailable after next week's Concordy. Anyone applying for committees listed in last week~s Concordy must do so by May 2nd. Philosophical Sex Two Union College philosophy professors have published an a~thology of essays exploring a w1de range of. questions relating to human sexuality. Philosophy and Sex is edited by Drs. Robert Baker and Frederick A. Elliston, both Assistant Professors of Philosophy. It has been issued by Prometheus Books, a publisher specializing in works on ethics. Topics discussed in the volume include the analysis of the semantics of sex; the arguments for and against monogamy, adultery, promiscuity, birth control. and abortion, and the meaning and legitimacy of perversion and homosexuality. On May 10, a symposium . sponsored by Albany State Peace Project, will be held at Albany State. The symposium. is entitled: ''Our Energy · Future: The Nuclear Question\. The ail-day symposium will begin at I 0 a.m. at the SUNY A Lecture Center Complex. The symposium will conduct an extensive examination of the nuclear energy question. In the morning eight speakers will · give their views, both pro and con, on this pressing and : controversia'l topic. After a lunch that will be provided for by the sponsors, panel, discussions and workshops will · be conducted throughout the . afternoon. Some of the highlights of these workshops · will be a videotape of the · Norman Rasmussen vs. Ralph . Nader debate on nuclear energy, as well as a videotape of the testimony given by Drs. John Gofman and William Steigelman at a citizen's hearing on nuclear energy. The entire symposium is free and further information can be obtained from Albany State. Jerry's Place ~-::· ~) 431 Liberty St. Best Coffee in Town FOR LIQUOR AND WINE Try JcJce Lipstein's 464 State Street FR4-1888 ::;--, -~, 1'-\ij r:\~/j' ~/~ I :princeton Plasma The Committee on Committees realizes that the circumstances this year are confusing. ·Concordy will be used to keep applicants abreast of what is happening. Any questions can be answered by: Physicist to Speak Brian Tucker (chairman} 346- 9829. Dr. Melvin B. Gottlieb, director of the Princeton University Plasma Physics Laboratory, will deliver the annual Sigma Xi lecture at Union College, speaking on ••Energy for the Future,\ on Thursday night, May I, at 8:00 p.m. in SS016. Professor Gottlieb was one of the founders and the first chairman of the Plasma Physics Division of the American Physical Society. He is the note,4 author of articles on cosmic-ray and plasma physics. He has been associated with Princeton University since 1954, initially on leave. of absence from the State University of Iowa. Beginning as head of Princeton's Experimental Division of Project Matterhorn (now known as Plasma Physics Laboratory) Dr. Gottlieb became associate director in 1959 and succeeded Dr. Lyman .Spitzer as director in 1961. Since 1962, he has been professor in the department of astrophysical sciences and. is its associate chairman for plasma physics. He is a member of both Phi Beta Kappa and Sigma Xi,' John Dolan, 346-9938 Lee Rimsky, 346-9396. Allison Brickley, 370-6479. Karen Spar. 346-9590. VIETCONG Continued from Page 13 Kissinger has said things like, \You cannot trust the United States anymore.\ Surely that is a self-fulfilling prophecy. If the Secretary of State says that about his own country and if he links the faH of Saigon to Jerusalem, that's serious bUsiness. On the other hand, happily. nobody believes him. Q: Is be on his way out? A: No. A friend of 'his said that he's a man who can't quit when he's ahead. Well, he's also a man who can't quit when he's behind. TYPING Reas«lnable Rates Fut Senke· 393-22~3 teVI.:.S Vernine'·s Plant Room 509 B. Union St. Opp. A&P 372-6760 AI Cohn on tenor sax will perform at a free jazz concert Sunday, May 4, at 8 P.M. at the Ramada Inn. ~\~-- - - Part Time Employment Male; for the Camera and Stereo Department. Must bave experience. Send resume stating qualifications to: The Townsmen Dist.;lnc. 2617 HAMBURG STREET SCHENECTADY, NEW YORK 12303 - -· - ..._ - - - - II II JOBS ·in SOCIAL CHANGE For Summer or Schooi Year New 320 page 1ndcpth guide to 175 major Wilsh. DC public mterest qroups & their 'ntefnshop programs. Also fi.ve proposed • 'nnovntiv.<' s6c.ia.i projects mcluding a rcvolu.tion·ary new tow.n pl.an 1 mmediate 'hopment S~nd $1.50 to SE.R Foundation, 3416 Sansom S1., F'hila, p,, 19104. A!.fn· Ray I Chok,, 17,15) 362 291i6 · ·- ---- -

- and for the be of new the old were ·May will new on M ill be 'It of tics out three cordy .Any by:. like, t is a the links the body man CONCORDIENSIS. Wednesday, April30, 1975 Page·l5 ----~------~----~----~-----=-~~~~--=-=~·=·-~=·===m~-----~--~-----------------------------------------------~------ Women's Tennis by RICH In an active week for the women's tennis team, the racketwomen downed Siena on Saturday, the 26th and Skidmore on Monday, .the 28th. (The match scheduled for Smith on the 24th was canceled and a rain date will not be set.) Under cloudy and windy weather, Union squelched Siena 5.:0. Scores were: Singles: I) Muffy Hart, 6-3,6-1 2) Tobi Goodman, 6-2, 6-0 3). Denise Wachtenhein, 6-l, 6-0 Doubles: Sue Richard and Lee Russell~ fl-1. 6-2 \Twinkle Toes\ Anderson and Faith CaH, 6-0, 6-2 Traveling .. north\ Union beat an unsuspecting Skidmore 4-3. Most matches were close and Skidmore seemed to have underestimated their rivals whom they beat in the fall. Scores were: Captain P{lm Anderson in action against Siena last ;. Singles: 1) Ellen Lichtig, 6-0, 6-0 2) Sue Rich, 6-4, 6-2 Satul'day. photo bv A. Miller Womells' Softball , by CATHY REALS in an error-plagued ·softball game last Wednesday, the RPI women defeated the Dutchwomen hv a score of 29-23. It was obvious from the first inning that both teams would be involved in a slugging match on Library Field. RPI opened with six. runs on five hits. Being nervous on the first official home game of the season. Union committed five errors in the inning. A large crowd of spectators watched as Union came back in the bottom of the inning with three runs on three hits. ' third out was maae·. The game continued to see-saw back and forth as RPI and Union each scored one run in the third inning. Both teams were held scoreless in the fourth. RPI came on strong in the fifth and sixth innings scoring 16 runs on 12 hits. Union tried to keep pace but was held to 12 rur{s on I 0 hits. The final inning saw RPI tally 2 more runs before Debbi Slotoroffs diving catch in center ended their scoring. Union pounded out a total of 21 hits against 23 hits of RPI. Home runs were made by Francis, Zankel and Young. Baldwin collected the only doubles and triples for the Dutch women. Ann Markowitz (I- I) took the heartbreaking loss. She walked two and struck out three. We hope to see as much enthusiasm from the crowd on the next home game May 8, against Schenectady Community College. lt'S\\guaranteed excitement. 3) Muffy Hart, 7-5, 7-5 · 4) Margaret Goldin, 6-7, 3-6 5) Tobi Goodmal'l, 6-0, 7-6 Doubles: J) .. Twinkle Toes\ Anderson and ,Faith Cail 3-6, 2-6 2) Lee Russell and Denise Wachtenhein, 7-6, 5-7, 3-6 Freshman women's ace Muffy Hart volleys in Siena victory. phot~ by- A. Miller RPI led off the second inning with four more runs, making the score 10-3. It looked like the second inning was doomed for the Union women. With two outs, Union decided to rally, however, and· tied the score at 10-10. Sue Finkelstein singled and stole second. Keeping the rally alive, Perky Francis walked. Singles by Elliine Baldwin and Ronni Zankel scored Finl<.elstein and Francis. R.PI walked Cathy Reals and Ann Bonvouloir, forcing in a run. Gina Pugliese hit a sharp grounder to short, causing an error and bringing in both Reals and Bonvouloir. Ann Markowitz and Gwen Young both walked, but could not score before the Late Score: Tuesday, April 29 - Women's Softball: Fulton Montgomery 16, Union 6. Senior tennis Captain Kevin Crawford moves to the attack. BULLETIN! A FIRST IN THE HISTORY OF UNION COLLEGE! Women's LaCrosse vs. Russell Sage. Thursday, May 1st on Library Field. r--------------------- Home sporting events this weekend are: Baseball vs. .Albany State on Saturday at l0i30 a.m. Track vs. Trinity on Saturday at 1:30 p.m. Lacrosse vs. RPI on Friday in Troy. Garnet attack applies pressure 10 Ephmen's goal. photo by D. Grossman Intramural Shorts The Intramural Swimming Meet went off well this past week with Sigma Phi winning the overall team title. The individual winners were: Frank Hoster in the 50 yard freestyle, the 100 yard individual medley and also one leg of the winning 200 yard freestyle relay team; Tom Broadbooks who took first in the 100 yard freestyle and the SO yard backstroke~ and second in the 50 yard freestyle. Dave Hardman had the only other individua I llrst-place finish, hls coming in the 50 yard breaststroke. All in all everyone who participated in this meet had a really good time. Beginning next week, the intramural softball league will be divided into four divisions in order. to facilitate more competitive games and also to help delineate those teams worthy of those highly sought after play- off berths. Team trophys are on display in Coach Knull's office at pre&ent. LUIGI'S RESTAURANT SPECIALIZING IN Italian- Artlerican Food 1125-BARRETT ST. SCHENECTADY 016-9744, E_njo)' Sizzling Steaks and Chop.~ Vi.~it Our CfJcktail Bar

' ' ~R~ag~e~l~6-------------------~------~--~-=C=O~N~C~O~R~D~i~E.~~~S~IS~,~~~ed~n~.~=d=a~~~·A~p~r~il~3~~~1~9-~~··------------------~--------------- A ttackman Bob drossman, team scoring leader, circles Williams goal. photo by Don Hamerman Laxmen Drop Two by SLEEPER The Union lacrosse team had more than its share of bad luck. Injuries to several key players, arid the inability of a potentially explosive attack·to put it together, resulted in the los§ of two games this past week. A 14-1 I loss to Williams and a 10-6 defeat at the hands of Middlebury dropped the Garnet record to 2-3 for the season. On Wednesday afternoon under sunny skies, Williams took the early lead and held the advantage throughout most of the tight battle. Union did manage to knot the score at 10-10, but Williams countered with a couple of quick scores to seal the victory. For the fourth time in as many games. Grossman handed out 4 assists. but the ineffectual attack managed to score only 4 times. A bright spot for the team is Rich Easton, who continues to improve with every game. He fired in two more goals to lead 'he middies. Donny Ward and Frank Pangie also netted two apiece. The laxmen traveled te Middlebury on Saturday without the services of two top middies - Jim Thompson and Dennis Demuth. J.T. is suffering from an injury to the ligaments in his right knee and will be sidelined for the rest of the season. His absence will be sorely felt, since not only does he play \excellent defense, but also is capable of winding up and letting it fly. Middlebury took a 5-1 lead in the. first period and coasted the rest of the way to victory. They controlled 15 out of 20 faceoffs and held Union to only 24 shots for the entire game. Grossman had trouble sparking the attack as defenses continued to key on him. An injured Stecker, a tired Gullans, and a below par Little J .T. failed to pick up the scoring slack. According to Coach Allison, the lax team \got burned, but they will come back.\ · . Spikers Split . . . .. b ALis oN SLOAT . . . . · h 1 favonte m the dwtsmn Ill · Y · · · \' · · · ~tkewtse boast s~eep~ 1 ~ .~ e . ong national decathelon next month. Upon meeting the Statesmen JUinp (De Stefane 2~. 3Y2 'Rtcks, .. Lineweaver won\ the HJO ·and from Albany last week, the Adams). ~~-~rmedt~te _ h~~d~e~. the 220 by narrowly defeating Garnet trackmen were determined (Scheu~r 56.4, ~s-tatt Is, Herring, then claimed a victory in to emerge victorious after a sl'im St~gemann) and P_o!e ~a~lt the long jump beating Johnny De. · 73-72 defeat last year, and (R.tcks, Adams, Masta1~1s, 12 6. ). Dave Ricks only squeezed the w.in clinched a win in every field event J'~>hn De Stefano, a reltable po~nt in the pole vault by. beating as we:ll as an occasional running g~tter, ~ol~e9~e~ two ~ore .wms Linew~~ver .on misses a~ l3', whh event to leave SUNYA in a nine wtth 43 4Y4 m the tnple J,ump Mastattis at fourth. Lmeweaver point cloud -of dust, 77-68. As has a ad 5' l 0\ -in the high jump. almost won the javelin th;row been the case so often, the win Bob Moffat was. the only untU Rich Norman stole the event rested on the mile relay. Dave G~rnet spiker to place in the 880 with his last throw, Mowery won Ricks, Wayne Heywood, Bub wtt~ a 1:~8.5 W 1 !1· P?Werhouse the shot put and the discus, but M o:ffat and Jeff Broomes sp:a:mter ~~It I;Iernng PICked up .a Lineweaver was there again to combined for an impressive 3:27.9 paJr Qf wms 111 the. 100 and the pick up fourth in the shot.:Finally win establishing a new track 22() (10.4 and. 23.0), . an~ Jeff with the help of three other record. Br<Jomes grabbed secm'ld In the sprinters, Linewe.ave11 wrapped up 0 the r n.o t ew or thY 44(). . . . . . the anchorieg of the 440 relay for performances were Rich Leavmg the_ warm weather at more points. for meet victor Norman's 191' 4\'2\ school record home. the thmclads travel<:d to Brockport State. setting throw in the javelin and tbe shores of Lake Ontano to One of Union's strongest events Bill Mowery's deuble win in the meet ~swego and Brockport of the day turned' out to be the shot put and the discus over Rudy State .. ~u:st, the Dut~hmen were high' hurdles as Phil Stegemann Vito to even a personal score. faced W!th. ~5 mph wmds and 35 an·d Mike May claimed second State picked up points with degree d~1llmess, th~n they ~et and third .places. Other points sweeps in the mile run, high Mark . Lmewea~er: a versatile were realized in the long jump hurdles, three mile, and 440 relay. competitor who ts hkely to be the where Johnny De grabbed second However, the Dutchmen could ., and Eddie Adams, third. The Women's Varsity Lacrosse team . will have its first home encounter of tile Spring Season this Thursday at 4:00 p.m. on Library Field. The Dutchwomen will host the Trogans from Russell Sage. Garnet ~'9'' Gains .Split A frostbitten Union baseball team split its games last week, beating Hamilton while losing to Middlebury. The Garnet nine had to fight the elements against Middlebury, as a fine snow fell throughout most of the contest. The inclement weather seemed to excite the Panthers' bats as they pounded out eleven hits that produced twelve runs. Meanwhile, Union left fourteen men on base and came out on the \short\ side 12-3. Randy Ruschak had three hits and Don Milder had two including a triple and three R Bt:s. Against Hamilton, Union finally broke through early and often to gain a 6-1 victory. Freshman pitcher Chuck Lampson went the distance and recorded the win. Ronny West brook and Randy R uschak led the way with each getting two hits. Ronny also made some fine defensive plays, helping to keep the Continentals subdued. Union scored in the first inning as Ron Westbrook .led off with a single between third and short. He kept motoring to second as the Hamilton left fielder was caught napping. Dan DeGregory singled Ronny home with a bouncer to center. Hamilton tied the score in their second on a single and double. How~ver, inspiration struck the dormant Garnet bats as Union scored five runs in the fifth to put the game on ice. Ruschak led off the fifth With a single and went to third when Westbrook followed suit with another single. Ronny stole second. and after an out Don Milder singled across one run. With the help of a strong tailwind. Don stole second. -Lou Miller walked and Gary Borgese knocked in Don and Ronny with a double, while Milder went to third. Lou scored on a wild pitch and Geese eventually scored on a fielder's choice. A vociferous crowd of four people witnessed what may have been the turning point in Union's season. The team next takes the diamond against Norwich April 30 before traveling to Troy to face the Engineers on Friday. Senior jump specialist, John DeStefano, scores double win vs. Albany State. \' photo by Don .lJamerman Tennis Again On Top The '75 edition of the Garnet tennis team is once again proving that the success enjoyed ill the past few seasons has been no fluke. Over the past Week the sq.uad improved its record to 4-2 with bad to back victories over Binghamton and Siena before howin_g to a strong Williams tcalh. In <lefeating Binghamton and Siena the Dutchmen exhibited strength, and balance throughout the line-up, losing only the number one singles match in the SUNY match. Sophomore Steve Marcus has been the outstanding player thus far, dropping a close 6- 4. 64 decision in the Wind at Williams for his only loss. Senior Steve Wavne also shows a 5-l slate tCJ date. Union triumphed by a 7-2 margin over Binghamton and hi an ked Siena 9~0. Against the Ephmen on. Sat.urd ay. the racketmen were encounter.ing one of the perennial tennis powerhouses in the East. Witliarns was a new edition to the ~chcduk: tl\lS )t:ar and their 9-0 victory is by no means any indication that they should not have been there. With the exception of one singles match, every contest was very. closely fought. Four of the eight went to the three set limit as fer the first time in four years the team failed to take a singles match. Left on the schedule for the remainder of the year a·re Rochester, Albany St., and Middlebury, in that order. Middlebury was the only ·loss in a 6-1 season in '7 3 and Rochester had that honor in the 7-1 record of last vear. Both matches should prod:uc~ tight. well played tennis. lhe Albany St. encounter could mean a third successive sweep of the Capital District area colleges \for the Garnet netmen. It's just a tnatter of keeping that racket hack, eyes 01~ the ball, head up. feet in position, bend·ing those knees. following through, and ... when that doesn't work, temper, temper! There's always a next time. rwo d11' bulb i~ JpJ11pposi Road, I the en- replnntei Way·tOI 1 0 joUI Tirr .Wa coil on 8:0l of anc sul Le: ] SUI it.' St Sa he pc sp al! 01 m fu e) re at tt u: Ui dl ( ~ ft d it tl f: f J v r ( ' t

