,, ECAC tournament this Friday and Saturday at the Fieldhouse! SENIORS \\'\ Order -· . gtaduatio!l ·announeemelrts from . Mrs. Marra by Marcli 14. \Te· sink uinong. the nq,ked mute, Is that, think you, d . ')\ our en tng r --George Meredith., .,.. . ·~ . -·\:\\- \ - ~ ·- .. ... ... ... ·.------ _y ol. 104, 'N (). 17 · , . . .. --~ -- :7' -~-..... . -- ' · ·: :. : __ \'Thursday March 6, 197$. . ••• ··- .. f. .. -.__ _. -----. ·-.--. \-·· . •. . , 35 ce~ts . .-..._._ . . -. \ D~orm Improvements, The Library -has taken over 52 bound volumes of three ·d·iffen;nt perioclicals tr:om its shelves. Tht: · r volunies have been badly .,;:,, . vand~liied. The Hbr&ry i~:;tJ:ow Joohn;g for the articles that)ver.e Fipped out at other libraries Tt;t.the hope of copying them an~,.then rebinding these vo!umes.' · The three periodicals are the American Psychoan.alyti.c Association Journal ( 1957 thru ;19-71 ), Psycl}oanalytic Quarterly Rate Hikes Approved L . IIi • . . ._ ·I~VIng by VI ' ( I 9 4 8 t h r u I 9 7 0) a n-d ,Psychoanalytic ~eview ( 1'957 thru 1970), over SO periodicals in all. The vandalism to these periodicals will cost several 1 hundred .dollars as well as a great Union College, mother of Continued on Page 10 · fraternities and inspiration._ for Seward's F ol:ly, will achieve another \first\ Spring term, as fourth floor West will simulate the \Harrad Experime-nt\. The Harrad Experiment was the lamed college format in which men and women lived together ia dormat.ory rooms .learning open and fn~nk sexual encounters. The Concordiensis. is preparing •o r._.n its 2nd anllual Student Life Survey. The survey's purpose is to gauge student opinion on a wide range of topics. A few students are n-eeded to distribute and collect the .survey. Suggestions for possi,le areas to· be covered by the survey are also ·requested. If you wish to participate or have suggestions for topics please place them in.. the ••conconliensis\ mailbox, Jo~ated h1 the Student Activiti~s Offi~e. Debbie Kilgus, Directar of Housing. At Union College; the students are more intelligent than those of H arrad College, but not much; also, they lack the physica:l luster and diverse backgrounds, coming from Long Island. One spokesman stated, \The basic difference between Union and Harrad Experiment!! is that they get comp. ed. credit.\ The pJa:n is not without· .criticism, especially am<Yng the faculty. Despite 'the tentative ~pproval of Dean of Students Mark Smith, ane English professor termed the plan as \moroal turpitude.\ · The purported ;plan, to . be implemented c::luring the-first week· of the .spring term, wa~ conceived Harkness Nixes Pro Hockey; Sees Rink os Campus \Hub\ by Matt Brief and Dave Eilbott, who believe that \Union·~ should live up to its name. According to Achilles Rink manager Ned Harkne~s, the chances of a professional hockey team playing in Union's tink next year are nil, Harkness quelled rumors that a yet-to-be formed team .;:ailed the Albany . Red Wings would pla~ in the Achilles Rink next year. . Spetial To CONCOROlENSIS capital district sports- world for the past week, arose from this meeting, even they were completely unfounded. On Schedule the completed rink would be oriented to campus use above all others. He envisions a 15-20 hour day of operation, with students and faculty having tap priority. Details such as hours and fees of Continued· on Page 10 Room Rental to Rise Minimum of $70. The Housing Office has taken several actions that deal with impFovements in the dorms and adjustments to be made in room costs. The comJDittee's budget for improvements to be made in housing conditions has been approved by the Budget and Appropriations Committee. The $71,776 proposed budget had only minor cuts made and left the Committee with a total of $70,000. The improvements range from new louifge furniture and carpeting to box springs and desk chairs. The housing office is now waiting for bids to be submitted by furniture, carpeting, and various other companies. Though. all the items have been slated for completion in the coming year, a priority list had to be made to structure the most pressing needs of the dorms. The following is the list of priorities (most important at the top): Priority of items as set by student housing committee I. Fox & Davidson - lounge furniture 2. Raymond & Potter - carpet Continued on Page 9 CORRECTION Combinations will be issued at the Mailroom in Carnegie on Sunday and Monday, March 30 & 3L Accordi-ng to reliable reports., the floor will go coed room by room, but only 'on a voluntary basis. While few students voiced objectiops to the rooming change; one student who wished to remain anonymous stated, \You gotta be very careful. when ·your girlfriend is living on.camptts.'' Couples will be_ chosen by pulling names out of a hat. and as _9ne giggfing coed said, \It sure beats ttie state Harkness said that he was contacted· by representatives .of the dub, but after hearing their proposals in a meeting held on campus, he turned them down flatly. Apparently, the rumors, which had circulated the In other rink =related news, Harkness noted that the construction of the ice facility is right on schedule.- He commented that, due to favorable weather conditions, construction may ,even· be slightly ahead of the schedule which calls for an Octooer opening. Palestinian. to Speak lottery.\ _ · Mr. Harkne_ss empha&ized that Nnrth·i>m~tp)•fl ·New ork outh Orchestra present its win tel' concerts on following dates.; March 11 af-8 p.m. at Union College Memorial Chapel, March 10 at 7:30 p.m. at Shakg]' High School, and March 16 at 4:00 P:m. at St. Rose College. · The Jnternational Relations Club of Union continues its lecture .series ''Oil, Conflict, the Middle East\ on Tuesday. March lith with Dr. Ibrahim Abu Lughod. Dr. Lughod will present the Palestinian position in the Middle East. Or. Abu-lughod was born in Palestine in 1929 where he received his eatly education. He lived in Jordan after the 1948 war in Palestine, later coming to the United States to pursue his higher education. He obtained his B.A. and M.A. from the University of Illinois (1953, 1954) and his Ph.D. from Princeton U triversity in )96 7. Then he joined UNESCO as a Social Science Officer and was assigned to Egypt where he carried out social science research and trained civil servants in the use of social science methods for community development schemes. in 1962 he joined the faculty of Smith College as Assistant Professor of 9uvernment. He spent the academic year 1965-66 at McGill University as a visiting Professor of Islamic Studies. In September 1967 he joined Northwestern University as a Professor of Political Science. Professor Abu-Lughod is the author and editor of many books one of which is: -Arab Rediscovery of Europe: The Arab-Israeli Confrontation. Porno Policy To be effective immediately, the · Film Committee will add to its cUrrently all student committee either a member .. of the Administrative Staff or a member of the faculty of the committee's choice. This administrator o~ faculty member agrees to serve the Film Committee in an advisory capacity only. The advisor shall not have veto power concerning the Film Committce~s decision to show parti<:ular films. The Film Committee shall uphold all laws in its showings of R and X rated films. No film that has been banned. in Schenectady County shall be shown on campus. An I.D. check shall b~ made, and a member of the Film. Committee shall remaitt throughout these films to ensure that all persons viewing these films are of proper age.

j e ECAC tournament this Friday and Saturday at the Fieldhouse! SENI()·,RS Order gi'aduati.Qn announcelllents from . Mrs. 1\farra by March14. \T6· sink among· th-e n~.ked mute, Is that, think you, our ending?\ -George Meredith.. .. -: . -:-- . ·- . -.~ -~. ·--. ' . . :• . ~ -- ~- .:t:~~- ..• .V_el.1~_4, ~~· 17 _. · · :: . .' ~ ... T_hursday, March 6, 197~- . ··'-- - . - - . . - ~-- . . .. ·\ . . \ 35 ce_l!ts _. -- - - .. .. . ' Library Rip~Off Dorm Improvements, · .. The library has taken ovir 52 bound volumes of three .differ.ent periodicals from its shelv.es. The· volumes have b~en badly vand&liied. The library i~;t;~ow looking for tht: articles tha(Were ripped out at other libraries ii;l the hope of copying them anc.l._then rebinding these votumes. · The. three periodicals are the American. Psycho.a.nalytic Association J.ournal { 1957 thru '197.1 ), Psyc}J.oanalytic Quarterly -Rate Hikes Approved Coed Li_ving (1948 thru 1970) and Psychoanalytic ~eview ( 1957 thru 197-0), over 50 periodicals in all. The vand!llisrn te these periodicals will cost several· by VI 1 hundred .dollars as well -as a great Union College, mother of Continued on Page 10 fraternities- and inspiration. for Seward's Folly, will achie-ve another \first\ Spring term, as fourth floor West will simu~ate the \Harrad Experiment\. The Harrad Experiment was the fatned college format in ·which men and women lived together in dorma:tory rooms learning open and frank sexual encounters. The Concordiensis. is preparing to run its 2nd •annual Student Life Survey. The survey's purpose is to gauge student opinion on a wide range of topics. A few students are needed to distribute and collect the .survey. Suggestions for possible areas to be covered by the sttrvey are also requested. If you wish to participate or have suggestions for topics please .place them in. the .. Coneordiensis\ mailbox, )ol:ated in the Student Activitil!_s Office. . . Debbie Kilgus, Director of Housing. At Union Cellege: the stlldents are more intelligent than ,those of Harrad College, but not much; also, they lack the physicai iuster and diverse backgrounds, coming from Long Island. One spokesman stated, \The basic difference between Union and Harr11,d Experiments is that they get co!np. ed. credit.\ The pia·n is not Without· criticism, especially among tht! faculty. Despite 'the tentative approval of Dean of Students Mark Smith, ane Engfish professor termed the plan as \moral turpitude.\ The purported plan, t<> be implemented during the-first week· of the spr.ing term, was. conceived Harkness Nixes Pro Hockey; Sees Rink as Campus \Hub\ by Matt Brief and Dave Eilbott, who believe that \Union'~ should live up to its name. According to Achille~ Rink manager Ned Harkness, the chances of a professional hockey team playing in Union's rink next year are nil. Harkness quelled tumors that a yet-to,be formed team called the. Albany Red Wings would play in the Achilles Rink next year. . Special To CONCORDIENSIS capital district sports- world for the past week, arose f~om this meeting, even they were completely unfounded. On Schedule the completed rink would be oriented to campus use above all others. He envisions a 15-20 hour day of operation, with students and faculty having top priority. Details suc.h as hours and fees of Continued 'on Page 10 Room Rental to Rise Minimum of $70. The Housing Office has taken several actions that deal with improvements in the dorms and adjustments to be made in room costs. The comJTiittee's budget for improvements to be made in housing conditions has been approved by the Budget and Appropriations Committee. The. $71,776 proposed budget had only minor cuts made and left the Committee with a total of $70,000. The improvements range from new lounge furniture and carpeting to box springs and desk chairs. The housing office is now waiting for bids to be submitted by furniture. carpeting, and various other companies. Though all the items have been slated for completion in the coming year. a priority list had to be made to structure the most pressing needs of the dorms. The following is the list of priorities (most important at the top): Priority of items as set by student housing committee I. Fox & Davidson - lounge furniture 2. Raymond & Potter~ carpet Continued on Page 9 CORRECTION Combinations will be iotsued at the Mailroom in Carnegie on Sunday and Monday, March 30 & 31. According to reliable reports, the Boor will go coed .room by room, but only 'on a voluntary basis. While few students voiced objectio]1S to the rooming change, one studellt who wished to remain a-nonymous stated, ••y ou goUa be very careful when your gi-tlfriend is living on camp.tts.\ Couples will be. chosen by pulling names out of a hat, and as ~one giggling coed said. \It sure beats t'te state lottery.·· . Harkness said that he was contacted' by representatives of the club, but after hearing their proposals in a meeting held on campus, he turned them down In other rink= related news, H atkness noted that the construction of the ice facility is right on schedule. He commented that, due to favorable weather conditions, construction may even· be slightly ahead of the schedule which calls for an October opening. Palestinian to Speak flatly. Apparently, the which had circulated Mr. Harkne_ss emphasized that Northeastern York Youth stra will present its winter concerts on the following dates.; Match 11 at-8 p.m. at Union College Memorial Chapel, March 10 _at 7:30 p.m. at Shak?! High .Scnool, and March 16 at 4.·00 p:m. at St. Rose College. The International Relations Club of Union continues its lecture series \Oil Conflict, the Middle East\ on Tuesday, March lith with Dr. Ibrahim Abu Lughod. Dr. Lughod will present the Palestinian position in the Middle East. Dr. Abu-Lughod was born in Palestine in 1929 where he received his early education. He lived in jordan after the 1948 war in Palestine, later coming to the United States to pursue his higher education. He obtained his B.A. and M.A. from the University of Illinois (1953, 1954) and his Ph. D. from Princeton U rriversity in 196 7. Then he joined UNESCO as a Social Science Officer and was assigned to Egypt where he carried out social science research and trained civil servants in the use of social science methods for community development schemes. 1 n 1962 he joined the faculty of Smith College as Assistant Professor of Government. H.e spent the academic year 1965-66 at McGill University as a visiting Professor of Islamic Studies. In September 1967 he joined N orthwestetn University as a Professor of Political Science. Professor Abu-Lughod is the author and editor of many books one of which is: ·Arab Redi~covery of Europe: The Arab-Israeli Confrontation. Porno Policy To be effective immediately, the Film Committee will add to its currently all .student committee either a member ... of the Administrative Staff or a member of the faculty of the committee's choice. This administnitor o~ faculty member agrees to serve the Film Committee in an advisory capacity only. The advisor shall not have veto power concerning the Film Committee's decision to show parti<:ular films. The Film Committee shall uphold all laws in its showings of Rand X rated films. No film that has been banhed in Schenectady County shall be shown on campus. An J.D. check shall be made, and a member of the Film Committee shall remain throughout these films to ensure that all persons viewing these films are of proper age.

2 ~.,.~ Editors-in-chief. ............. , ............... Chris O'Connor Rob Mondschein Culture Editor ..................................... Peter Sobol Features Editor .................................... Jon Scheer . Sports Editors .............................. Kev.in Crawford · Bill Underhill Photo Editors ................................. Arthur Miller 9anny McManamon Mana!!in!! Fditnr ............ David Moskowitz Graphic Arts Editor ........................... Bob Johnson Contnbutmg Editors .... , ....................... .Judy De in · Business. Manager ............................. Jennifer Port National Advertising .......................... Steve Kelly Subscriptions Editor .............................. Lisa Tietz Joanne Laufer Staff: Ilene Binder , Lance Travis, Nancy Frankel, Rick Ford, Bill Plaus, Sam Hughes, Susan Scheinhaus ·· Staff Photographers: Mike Marks, Joe Tauber. Mike Rotundi, Ellen Radack. Greg Cohen. Lorne NG. Robbee.:. Sue Draper, Rich Gaudian, Rudy Lu new rapport The Concordiensis handshake of the week goes to the students responsible for the Student-Faculty Social Hour: Barbara Hertzberg, Andy Walsh, Barbara Hershkowitz, Ilisa Baron and Betty Sma.ll. These informal gatherings in Hale House represent a long overdue step to improve student-faculty relations. part~ shots This issue of Concordiensis marks the end of th~ •. term of the present editors-in-chief. While the experience has, on the whole, been a happy one, we would be less than truthful were we not to mention our disappointments. The greatest of the disappointments is the attitude that much of the campus seems to hold towards Concordy. On the one hand, there is a consistent belief that the paper is the product of ' irresponsible reckless people. What this amounts to is a prejudice that prevents honest evaluation of what appears in the· paper. Too many people are convinced. of the shoddiness and irresponsibility of student journalism before they ever see Concordiensis. When we do. make mistakes, those prejudices become self-fulfilling prophecies. What is needed most is a willingness to treat Concordiensis seriously. Criticisms are welcomed; it would just be nicer if they reached the editors firsthand. A willingness to respond · to Concordiensis on the basis of the content of its articles, not on preconceived notions of their worth or accuracy, is necessary. Without such an attitude on the part ·of its readership, ConcQrdy will remain in large part a bulletin board, not a newspaper. It is important to stress that this attitude is not universal, and that we are not alienated and embittered to the· point of no· return. The frustration that resulted frorn the expression of the attitude described above was, and is, a small part of . the emotions we feel. We have enjoyed bringing the paper to you for twenty weeks (and we learned a great deal while doing it); and we wish only the best to Peter Sobol and John Scheer in their efforts to provide the carnous with the best possible student newspaper. Rob and Chris 'f . ¥ \ ~. ., .• you said it no sour J4rapes Editors, Concordiensis: In concern of our maintenance department, I relate the following story: One cold afternoon a week or two ago. l found my car .in need of a 'jump\ in order.· to start. Looking for assistance I ~approached an upper~middle·aged .guy who was driving an army jeep; he turned out to he a campus electrician. He gave me a .ride up to the maintenance building where a certain· office employee offered JlS her very own car and jumpers so that we might . successfully start my engine. My car has been starting and running smoothly ever since. By no means is maintenance required to act in such capacities. From this and other little things I have seen so far this year, I feel this organization is a group of quite accomodating and conscientious individuals. In many regards to maintenance, including· a few l have seen in your paper, the usual sour grapes attitude that seems to prevail over almost everything at this campus has been dominant. As one who has been otherwise influenced, I am glad to commend those of our maintenan~e department. G. Feldman e.a.r.p. Editors, Concordiensis: It's difficult to convey the excitement and hope we feel potential within the International Leadership Seminar. Our excitement is based on a study of people; history, science and philosophy which is too vast to explain · in .a word. It's so interconnected. Still, the potential in the sincere exchange of ideas (especially ideas coming from many backgrounds - centered on one unseltlsh pt~rpose) is obvious. Many people complain about the world situation but C.A.R.P. members learn the value of sharing ideas and substantially fulfilling them. We've heard of peace talks and such idealistic things before -yet consider the motivation. Were they unselfish'! Was there trust? It's unrealistic to ask two nations that are concerned with their own protection and concerned with kinds of \left-wing\ overtones;·in spreading their own ideologies, short, all too easily passed off as two nations that basically can't overly emotional, typical of a trust one another, to h.ave a clear young mind. Well, as I progressed perspective. with my studies, I found I was However concerned people, dissatisfied with political science, students, professors, scientists, seeing what I ·felt to be inherently businessmen and such can take an limiting in terms of emphasis on overview and can mediate basic political evils and their between. And again our remedy. Perhaps it was too· universities are centers for some analytical. Bat I think I reacted intelligent, aware and concerned against what ·appe¥ed to be a people and these people can be pressure -system through which active in guiding their countries students could.achieve entrance to development. law schools, as opposed to a If we can clearly evaluate our sincere, active desire to learn on resources, our common goals, our the part of the political science limitations, our differences, each students in general. I do not others' problems - in short if we consider myself an elitist; l was can achieve a fuller perspective ~ not looking down my nose at we (you and I) together have a people who I felt were· not great deal of potential influence. conscious of the b:roader, During Spring vacation, fr_om humanistic approach to studying 3, 22-31 29 C.A.R.P. is sponsoring with open, questianirig minds. a week long l11ternational Naturally this attitude is a Leadership Seminar, bringing personal judgement, but professors and students together nonetheless; 1 feel it is valid. Still, in Barrytown, N.Y. This facility is de~pite the first impression, there on a 250 acre tract overlooking have been some lovely, the Hudson River about 10 miles enlightening and consciousness- from Kingston, N.Y. and only an expanding experiences through hour's drive from Scnenectady. personal contact with certain Total· cost is only 30 dollars,_ professors. I ath grateful for their including food, lodging, sports interest and admire their facilities (two gyms~ 6 handball dedicati~m to both teaching and courts, etc.) lectures, and the continual growth of students. transportation there and back. There are both sides to the We invite those interested in coin. In the middle of my junior working t'Owards an ideal world year, a series ol events led me· to to come together to study some of change my major to art. This is the principles involved in the most fulfilling involvement I formulating and practicing such have found at Union College. The an ideal. Please come and share challenge, the vitality of the your views. Come an<l share you,r teachers and their sincere desire knowledge. Your viewpoint is as to make more flexible the minds essential as anyone's.. of students brought up in a rigid Sincerely; educational system has left its .Collegiate Association mark on me, for one. In reference for Research of to David Strom's letter in the last PrinCiples issue of Conc()rdiensis, I believe 372-0492 after 8 that the dynamism of the art \ department's faculty. will eventually move towards a group effort. as opposed to the present arts one which lacks solidarity and sharing of the broad range of • schools from which they come. As defended it seems it is always apparant with Continued on Page 4 Editor, Concordy: .1 am a senior. I transfered to Unioh from University of New Mexico in my sophomore year, making a transition from physical ahthropology. to political science in hopes of someday being a lawyer With a desire to effect change in what I have considered to be a sick society. But that's an easy, rhetorical definition with all ·All students interested in being considered for the position .of Resident Advisor in .1975-76 should fill out an application form in the Office of the Dean of Students by March 10. Earlier applications will be appreciated. Late applications for good reason will be accepted. s OJ Pers1 the 1 realh pro b. one, mem realu colleJ a war WI came decid this stud adm1 thOUJ abou join 1 The grOU] descr to f mem comr these A orde1 some that stude the : weU-1 they the : inten racist beha' has t peu mistr hiso .must other their Wb concr rep or the d here they taken seem anno] these andy Wt does stater transl beha' that make racist camp stude to t< they 1 Sy1 move sit d< WOffij black night by s Hou~ onw: ITj to b confl

a n 0 d a e s t CONCORDIENSIS, Thursday, March 6. 1975 Page3 Pat ADell, Jj;QgUsh' .. HQwtr~~lJ.\r.ilotCJ . · the()d~r~lll~k, M11th··· Luur~ ·cl.tmirl;· fliesident .. Ed~Vard Ctaig;Ass(n~·; Qeau Edga\r cwti~~ Mnsi~.: · · ~ .. ' · :Pruce Oownsbrougb, R.A •. Edwin Lewis, Physics Mark Smith, Dean, Students . . . · Willard Enteman~ P,rovost · ·.catlos.:_Bi~l, Asst/:Oean, Students . . . Valerie .Hoffman, R.A. Mart~n Li~hterma~, Dean F$c. . l.an Ludwig, Phil. Peter Tobiessen, Bio. Mary Vetterling, Phil • Norm Walbek, Pol. Sci. Terry Weiner, Soc. .: Ctttbflllllelli~ R.A~ ·.Susanna Miller, Placement Byron Nichols, Pot Sci. AI Reisch, R·.A~ Judy Dei~;: '-~~· . . -Jay King~ Asst;. Dean~ Students Tfieodore Schwarz? Computer Ctr .fEE Robert Wilson, R.A. Herbert Wylen, Asst. Dean ~- --~·-\'- .... , .. .:...,·..;; .. ,.,.. ,'.- \-;;:-~ -~-·'--- . • r ... . . ' . ..... Student Faculty AccountabHity Accountability One has only to · reii,d Perspedive or to hawe attended the town meeti11g last Spring to realize that Union College has a problem in race r~lations. And one needs to talk to only a few mem:bers of tlte student body to realize that most members of the college community ate not even aware that a problem exists. who tell her that black students don't. deserve the grades or financial aid they get. ITEM: A white student askeq to have a Spanish;speaking student removed from the dormitory room because, . \My father wouldn't approve of my living with a .person like that.\ Wh~n Jay King and- Carlos Hill came to Union this fall they ITEM: While a black woman decided to do something about ~s participating; in class this condition. They invited dtscusston, one whxte classmate One has only to read Perspedive or to bave attended the town meeting last Spring to realize that Union College has a problem in race relations. And one needs to talk to only a few members of the faculty and staff to realize that mo'St members of the college community are not even aware that a problem exists. When Jay King and Carlos Hill came to Union this fall they decided to try and do something about this condition. They invited' students, faculty, and administrators, whom they th~ught might be concerned about Union's race problems, to join an informal discussion group. !he principal objectives of this administrators, whom they ~ -----------~-~---, students, faculty;. and~. . . ·. . · thought might be concerned about Union's race problems, to . join an informal discussion group.~ The principal _objectives ?f this' group were ftrst to defme~ or describe the problelfi, and second§ to find ways, of' making the~, members of the college . community . more sensitive to these abuses. · or just slightly annoying. But multiply each of these incidents by the hundreds an9 you have sheer torture. · . Item: a· black woman walks into a course and~ upon being spotted, the professor proceeds to quote statistics to show that · women and blacks are inferior .. After class she is asked, \Are-you sure you want to take fhis course?\ Item: \Upward Bound has d.one nothing but bring a bunc.h of thieves 'to the campus for the summ·er.\ .. Item: professor goes over exams individually with white· students but runs out of time when it comes to advise blacks. Item: blacks are referred to. white students for advice on note- taking;. the instructor was too busy. · · · - is a C anyway!\ They lose, we lose, Union College loses. . So, with this. as a background, we present here a first draft of a proposal for a Commission on Race Relations and tentative procedures for -trying to raise the race-consciousness of Union. Current thinking is to drop the problem of appointing members to the commission into the lap of . the President, and that the commission inturn would elect a chairman or chairwoman. Obviously this and the other procedures given below will be revised, but this disclosure is to inform the commtmity of our activities and of the direction jn which we are headed. . We would hope that these procedures will act mainly as a meehanism to ·inform .each of us that we are engaging in bebavior that we might not realize are damaging and humiliating to mihority students. The task force, the defined in the procedures below, will attempt to explain the reasons behind this humiliation. We expect that the vast majority Item: a b1ack student received a .zero on a paper. When the instrUctor was consulted the instructor: ,(a) asked . t.he name of student's High School (b) wanted his or her S.A.T. scores of these instances will be settled (c) told the student to drop the quickly when these perceptions course,-and and effects are related to the (d) if the student intended to faculty or staff members. For the retake the couse, then do not do few cases not resolved at this so with the same instructor. point, further steps are proposed. .. Item: either black students are A definition of ,racism is in§ I order, and to this end we include§ some examples of .the behavior§ - that is perceived by the offended ~ students as racist. ln many cases the actions of .the student are well-meaning and unintentional;· they hurt nonetheless. In others' the actions of the student are~ intentionally discfiminatorv and · . racist. A d~finition: racism is any . behavior which is intended to ·or ignored or they are given Proposal: That a President's ~ excessive attention. Either one is Commission on Race Relations damaging, especially if the latter (CORR) consisting of students, . amounts to giving blacks easier staff, faculty, and administrators treatment because this causes be established as soon as possible. has the effect of making another .. person f'eel unaccepted, mistreated, or inferior becuase of his or her race. Thus, some of us must change our intentions, while othel'!l must realize the effects of § resentment in both whites and That this commission through blacks. any one or more of its members, Item: the faculty member gives be the body that receives the impression the college is doing complaints and charges of racism the black a favor by letting him or at Union College. CORR will also their behavior. ~;;;;.::;~~~::;;;;~;:;;;;:;:;:;; ~~~~:;;;;tb;:;;;:;v;;;;;;::;;;~~~~;;;;:;;;;;:o:;:)} Whu t'ollows are some · her be here. As a result they are develop procedures by which such more disturbed when minority. complaints or charges are students are absent from or late satisfied. concrete examples that have been We all become Brothers and Sisters under the laws of reported that might help clarify Minerva. the dimensions of the problem loudly , asked a friend, \Why group were hrst to define or here at Union. In many cases doesn't he shut that fucking describe the problem, and second they are little things, so that ·-nigger up?\ to find ways of making the taken one at a time they may members of the college seem either trivial ot just slightly ITEM: A White student claims community more sensitive to annoying. But tnultiply each of he isn't racist, but nevertheless he these abuses. these incidents by the hundreds allows .racist behavior to go on A definition of rac.ism is in and youha:ve sheer torture. ar_ound him. orde~, and to this end we include While this Ad Hoc Task Force some examples of the behavior does not delude itself that this ITEM: Some students think that is perceived by the offended statement on student racism will that the \250 black students on students as racist. In many cases transform student attitudes or campus are taking over,\ hut the actions of the faculty member, behavior overnight, we believe there are only 54 black students for example, are well-meaning that it is our responsibility to currently enrolled at Union. and unintentional; they hurt make public the kinds nf student nonetheless. ln others the actions racist ·behavior typical of this ITEM: An object was stolen of the faculty member are campus so that concerned from a room. A black student ·intentionally discrimi-natory and students will refuse to continue was seen in the hallway nearby. racist. A definition: racism is any to tolerate this behavior when \Did he do it?\ beha:vior which is intended to or they see it. _ has the effect of making another Syndromes: Whites get up and move to other tables when blacks sit down at West College. \thite women avoid passing close to black · students on campus at night. Racist slogans are yelled by students outside of Hickok House. Racist grafitti are written on walls by students. · ITEM: Ablack woman returns to her rootn at night to be confronted hy· ten white students ITEM: A white student said, in pt!tson feel unacc~pted, clear· earshot of his black mistreated, or inferior be~ause of Resident Advisor, \Why don't his or her raee. Thus, some of us they go to their own schools?\ must change our intentions, while ITEMS: \What are they bitching about? We didn't ask them to come here.\ ~ ''All black students are AOC students.\ (Or vice versa.) \I don:'t want my money to pay for Perspective.\ \I can•t afford to continue Continued on Page 4 others must realize the ·effects of their behavior. What follows are some concrete examples that have been reported that might help clarify the dimensions of the problem here . at Union. ln many cases they are little things, so \hat taken one at a time they may seem either trivial to class. Definition of Terms: ftem: a faculty member said, A person or persons, who have , \This is a really excellent perceived . the behav1or of. a paper ... a great improvement!\ • meJ?ber o~ the faculty or staff as. The grade, however, was a c. rac1~t wtll be referred to In addition to this type of heremafter. as the offended. -.:he. injury, tTtere is a stereotyping of perso~ ag~ms~ whom ~ complamt blacks. ol raCism Is duected wtll be called Itetn: a purse was stolen from the· allege~ offender •. an o!lice. A black student was For ea~h. complamt: a task seen in the hall. \Did he do it?'' force cons1stmg of no more than Items: \Bfacks never , come four mem.bers of the CORR may down campus.\ \Blacks come be appomted to overs~ the from broken homes.\ ''Blacks investigation and resoluh~n of cannot do quantitative work.\ th~t complaint. A case \w~ll be \All blacks are A.O.C. students.\ said to have been resolved 1f the. And, to tqp it all off, we· have a task force declares. the case myriad of annoyances such as: closed. -~n the event either party, No afro combs in the campus the otfended or th~ .. alleged store. offender, are not sattshed, an No black greeting cards. appeal may be made to the entire In plays in Nott Memorial, no Procedures: blacks are cast in roles of I. All complaints must be successful people. reported to the chairman of No makeup for blac~ students CbRR as soon as possible. in these plays. 2. The oil'ended will be asked to What do these and other inform the alleged offender of similar things do to the black his/ her feelings and' the injustices student? Well, some give up and or mistreatment perceived. transfer to another school. Some Note: It may happen that the spend four or five years here ·offended may, for a variety of hating everything they see, hence reasons (including fear), not want some of the articles in to speak to the alleged offender. Perspective. Some stick it out but In this event this step should be lose interest in their studies: \no omitte~ ~'!.'!the ta~k!or~e. should matter how hard I work all I'll get Continued on Page 4

Pqge4 . CO/iJCORDIENSIS, Th~rsi:lay) March 6, 1975 you said it Student Accountability be a~ointed. The tast force either by delegate or as a group, ,should~ _ ~O.Qtact _ !.he alleg(!d offender and describe the. problem and suggest that the all~ged offender ·explore the situation. · Continued from Page 2 this institution,the- potential is there to make a student's. exposure to art and the more creative fields of study an enriching learning experience. But there are some great obstacles to this opportunity reaching the majority of our population as a community of students and concerned educators. First, the studio arts program needs more money desperately. Facilities in sculpture and painting are either undersized, or lack the breadth of supplies needed for a student to study .and work seriously. We also need .a lounge. where possibly students can show their\ work, in order to provide an area where students ~n sit and discuss and generally Interact. The bookstore is undersupplied, particularly in sculpture tools and paints. This is one of the only ~chools with an art department that does not have a kiln,apotter~swheel, or torches for· welded sculpture. Administratively; the importance of these elements • is ·being passed off as has the art department for too many years. Second, -·so few students in other majors are aware of what is going on in the Arts Building. This is partly based on the lack of campus facilities for display and presentation 'to our l'ittle community. The library has a new gallery offering exposure to the arts. Many students, even those who use the library daily, do not take the time to stroll around and see what is happening in art today. It seems as if our society, Union being one of the best examples of a microcosm, has dulled its awareness ·of the necessity of art as one of the few things pursued by man that is a peaceful expression and celebration of the .jndividual. This department, I think, has been viewed by policy makers in the school bureaucracy as group .of itches who are to be only minimally humored with minor concessions in terms of money, facilities and an almost nonexistent collection of i;trt. It is frustrating for art majors and . teachers to be taken for granted without active interest or support. I think that anyone who takes his work seriously will understand how we feel, as students and teachers, in an atmosphere where every attempt to improve the quality of the arts at Union is met with dismissal or lack of interest. What this boils down to is each student, each faculty member, must stand up and help us out in becoming an active, vital part of the community. Come and see what we do! The third gripe concerns the notion of the \gentleman's education\ an ancient approach also known as a \'classical\ education in the humanities, the sciences, and equally, the arts. This is, I believe, the most noble of educational approaches because it emphasizes a totality and flexibility within the individual. It offers the recipient an ~exposure which hopeful'ly will become the model of what our comp. ed. system is supposed to achieve in preaching the value of a \well•rounded individual\. The. lack of exposure to art in the background of our \professionally\ oriented student body is amazing. We have produced Jl society of super- technologicaUy oriented minds whose aesthetics have shaped this age of MacDonald's Hamburgers and industry supported on the backs of the masses. People need to be exposed in everyday encounters with art and .a general knowledge of its assorted fields. Here is the place to start; the sooner the community realizes that it is being cheated of its right to a well-rounded education, the sooner we will start to see people b~coming looser, more spontaneous and more reiaxed having had some exposure to art where there was virtually none. The students are too uptight here; there is a distance between the individuals that inhibits us as a·· community of individuals to reach ,out to each other and share our backgrounds and beliefs. Continued· from Page 3 school because blacks are getting all the scholar-ship aid.\ \Go back to Africa.\ \I bet he thinks he looks really cool with his hair braided like that.\ What do these and other similar things do · to the black student? Well, some .give up and transfer to another school. Some spend four or five years here hating everything they see, hence some of the a.tticles in Perspective. Some .stick it out but lose interest in their studies: \No matter how hard I work all I'll get is a. C anyway!\ They lose, we lose, Union College loses. So, with this as .a background, we present here a first draft of a propo!!al for a Cpmmission on Race Relations and tentative procedures for trying to raise the race-consciousness of Union. Current thinking is to drop the probl~m of appointing members to the commission into the lap of the President, and that . the commission in turn would elect a chairman or chairwoman. Obviously this and the other procedures given below will be revised, but this disclosure is to apprise the community of our activities and_ of the direction in ~hich we are headed. such complaints or charges are satisfied. Defittition of Terms: A person or persons who--- have perceived the behavior of a member of the student body as racist will be referred to hereinafter as the offended. T:~erson ~gain~t whom a co · t of racism IS directed will be called the alleged· offender. For each complaint a task force consisting of no· more than four members of the CORR may be appointed · to oversee the investigation and resolution of that complaint. A case will be - said to have been resolved if the task force declares the case closed. In the event either .party, the offended ·· :or the alleged offender, are not satisfied, an appeal may be rnade to the entire CORR. Procedures t.. All complaints must be reported to the chairman of ~ C()RR as si;)on as possible~ 2. The offended w.iH be asked to- inform the alleged offender of his/her feelings and the i~justices or mistreatment perceived. Note: It may happen that the offended may. for _a variety of reasons (inclijding fear), ne>t want to speak to the aUeged offender. In thi~ event this ~step shoqld be omitted and the task force should pro~ed from 4, below 1 3. Within one week the CORR must contact \the offended for a report on the meeting described in 2. above. If the offended i~ satisfied, the case may be closed. 4. If the results of 2. and 3. above do not resolve the problem, or if these steps were not taken, then a task force will 5. After a reasonable length of time, normally not to· exceed one week, the task ,force should contact both the alleged Qffender and the offended for a report. If both parties are satisfied, the case may be closed. 6. If there is no. evidence that these notifications to the alleged offender have been respected andfor favorably reacted to in a manner that leads to a resolution of the case, then the task force as a group will discuss the matter with the alleged offeoder and the offended, separately or together, to attc;:mpt to solve the problem. 7. Failure of step 6. will be 'cause for a presentation of the ·case by the task force to the 9ean of Students~ who in tum will attempt a resolution of the case. · 8. If the case is still unresolved, then the 'task forte will present its case to the conduct .committee. 9. If · the case is still unresolve9, then an arbitration team will be formed. This team will\' consist of three persons: one ~ach chosen by the alleged offender and the offended as his/ her representative, and a third person chosen in turn by these representatives. The arbitration team will investigate the matter and, prepare a written report which will be sent to the President, the Provost, and tHe appropria_te administrators. . 10. Tentatively the task force shall also be responsible for keeping the campus community informed of progress on specific ftnd general matters. The ad ho~ Committee on_.Ratism We would hope· that these procedllres will aet mainly as a mechanism to inform ~aeh of us that we are engaging in behavior that we might not realize i s damaging and humiliating to minority students. The task force, defmed in the procedures below, wiD attempt to explain the reasons\ behind this humiliation. We expect that the vast majority of these instances will be settled quickly when these perceptions and effects are related to the student. For the few cases not resolved at th:s, point, further steps are proposed. F acuity Accountability Proposal: That a President's Commission on Race Relations (CORR) consisting of students, staff, faculty, and administrators be established as soon as possible. That this commission through any one or more of it~ members, be the body that .receives complaints and charges of racism at Union College. CORR will also develop procedures by which Continued from Page 3 proceed from 4 below. 3. Within one week the CORR must contact the offended for a report on the meeting described in 2 above. If the offended is satistied, the case may be closed. 4. If the results of 2 and 3 above do not resolve the problem, or if these steps were not taken, then a task force~ will be Dylan Comes Back Strong appointed. The task force either by delegate or as a group, should contact the aiieged offender and describe the problem and suggest that the alleged offender explore the situation. 5. After a reasonable length of time, normally not to exceed one week, the task force should contact both the alleged offender and the offended for a report. If both parties are satisfied, the case may be closed. 6. If there is no evidence that these notifications to the alleged offender have been respected and I or favorably reacted to in a manner that leads to a resolution I have never written a letter to the Concordiensis before. I felt that I could possibly reach a few people who were open enough to consider what 1 said. As a graduating senior, l can only hope that this institution will impress upon its students the desire and sense of necessity as we try, hopefully, to create a true community that cares and is willing to involve itself in creating the type of sensitivity needed to broaden our consciousness of ourselves and each other. There is a long way to go, and it is too easy to ignore or cast aside certain elements of man's endeavors that have proven to be more Worthwhile than dropping bombs on each others' heads. We are so apathetic, so content to be narrow and afraid. And yet it is not quite so bad. As always, the potential is the~:e. It would be invigorattng to see the flexibility of a Classical education exemplified in the minds of Union · students and faculty. As members of the larger community, we are in a prime position to train ourselves to deal with the coldness of a mechanical world. Given the problems in Union's society, it must make a few people a little nervous to hear that President_Bonner's first priority is getting Union a winning team. It is important to train the body as well as the mind, and yet it seems our immediate problems are more in the field of education and our active involvement in making this an enlightened community that will shine beyond the sheltered borders of Union College as it now stands. A favorite quote of mine is taken from a poem by -Lenore Kandelt It is, simply, \ ... Admit the animal within/ and begin the dance.\ And so, reach out from your individuality and offer those things that distinguish us as dynamic creatures with ultimate potential and a flexibility to learn until the day we die. by MIKE AFFlNITO out with a woman. The story is Bob Dylan recorded two rec~mnted in disjointed scenes albums on the Asylum label. One which become more and more was a live double album with the obscure until they vanish ·Band from his 1974 tour. This altog~ther. He still feels a great album was a success due to the l~ve tor her though: \We always sheer electricity that Dylan can did feel the same. We just saw it · of the case, then the task force as a group will discuss the matter with the alleged offender and the offended, spearately or together to attempt to solve the problem. 7. Failure to step 6 will be cause for a presentation of the case by the task force to the alleged offender's immediate superior, who in tUrf) will attempt a resolution of the case. Sincerely, Todd Cavalier Class of '75! from a different point of 'view.\ generate, even on a live disc, and the new ways in which his. old In :·siinple Twist of Fate\ material was prese'nted: The Dylan. relates hi:s wife's leaving studio album, \Planet Waves\ him and he recalls how they were was far less then spectacular, with brought together, separated and \Forever Young\ being perhaps h?pefully, will be reunited;' by ~. the only noteworthy cut. Dylan_ 'sm~ple t,wist of fate'. 8. If the case is still unresolved, then the task force will present its case to the Dean of Faculty, in the event the aUeged offender is on the faculty, and to the Provost, if not on the faculty. Engineering Opportunities seemed to be trying to preserve You re Gonna . Make Me something no one can hold on to Lonesome When You Go\ is forever: youth. perhaps the most puzzling cut on Now Dylan is back with the . album. Aher all · of his Columbia Records and seems to ~rev10us pleas and statements, the have accepted his own aging as smger seems t? have completely the next stage in his evolution as acc!!pted the fact that his lover a total performer. In doing this, must leave and there is nothing he Dylan !}as recaptured on his latest c~n do. to stop it. He has resigned album, \Blood on the Tracks\ hims.elt to t~is. vowing to the very essence of what has contmue to wnte and play his etuded him for the past few years. music. - 9. If tne case is still unreselved, then an arbitration team will be formed. This team will consist of three persons: one each chosen by the alleged offender and the offended as his/her representative, and a third person chosen i.n turn by these representatives.. The arbitration team will investigate the matter and prepare a written report • which will be sent to the President, the Provost, and the Salaries, Promotion and Tenure Committee · and appropriate administrator's. Reversing the trend ·of recent years, the volume of offers to engineering candidates is down at both the bachelor~s and master's levels. Compared with last March, the volume for engineering disciplines has dropped 6% for bachelor's candidates and 9% for master's. However. this decrease does not necessarily mean that engineering graduates are going to go jobless. What it does suggest is that the choice of jobs, particularly for Spring graduates, will be more restricted than had been expected from earlier estimates. For all curricula, bachelor's- degree volume dropped 2% from last March. The decrease might have been even greater except for a substantial number of accounting offers and increased volume for women candidates. On the other hand, total volurne · was up 5% at both the master's and doctoral levels. At the bachelor's level, two engineering disciplines withstood the downward trend in volume. Civil engineering, rose 18% over last March while chemical engineering went up 7%. In reaching this new plateau, . Two cuts here are definite Dylan as gone through many t~o~b~c~s to Dylan's earlier shaping experiences; one of the years. _Lily, Rosemary, and the most influential being his Ja~k.~f Hear~s\ ~nd \Buckets of separation from his wife, Sarah. , R~n · The f1rst IS a Bob Dylan Many of the songs on Blood on epic . complete'. :Vith harmonica -the Tracks\ seern to be immersed openmg _and drwmg bass line; not in Dylan's thoughts on love. at. ~II ,. unl_i~e \John Wesley \Tangied Up in Blue\ recalls the Hardmg · ~ h1s song should be sing~r coming toget·~er and falling Continued on Page S I 0~ Tentatively the task force shall also be responsible for ~e~ping the_ campus community mtormed of progress on specific and general ·matters. The ad Jwc Committee on Racism '\\\ ( b } des sp1 Co1 '75, org anc int< sue L flot mi~ 1rec Un: Wh Co1 a 3 los1 Tm Co1 wa~ peG res) gen par OWl Wal ba(J to Soc ) this be< wa1 \St ma cha son had I defi SCVI pia Tht Lee bee \W bal buc sha An ove see soc no thr

ged the. the the of one lf as tter the be the the the the IOn as a by sm of jer If a on as be its in is he be of by se er re te CONCORDl£NSlS, Thursday, March 6, 1!)-75 Rebuilt Social· Committee Chon.ges Campus Attitudes by.DAVlD MOSK()WITZ Handed mie of the least desirable jobs on campus last spring, outgoing Social Committee chairman Chris Fink '75, has t:nanaged to transform an organization with a large deficit. and almost no student confidence into this year's most viabl,e and succes!lful student committee. Last year's Social Committee floundered under managerial mistakes and a lack of 'receptivity . to the interests of the Union College student body. When Chri!> took over ·the Social Committee last spring, he was left a $5000 deficit (iriduding $8500 lost on last yeat:s Ike and Tina Turner concert alone). The Committee, according to Chris, was run by a small :nucleus of people who simply delegated responsibility and created a generaHy negative attitude on the part of the students towards their own social Jives. \This year we wanted to be the heroes, not the bad guys;· commented Chris, :•one of our main objectives was to change the reputation of the Social Committee.\ AnotheF objective Chris had for this year's committee was for it to beco.me an economi.cally mainly inexpensive outdoor picnic-type events . . .. we had fun. but no m0ney.\ Chris has also attempted. to present a program of events this year that would appeal to musical tastes of all sorts. \We started in the. fall.~ he explained, \with the goal of providing every kind of music for everyone on campus.\ For each of the three terms of the year the Committee's goal Was to present five events: two dances and three concerts. Still, two concett cancellations had to be made this winter- mainly due to the ever-present economic pressures. Billy Joel dropped his Union date to accept $2500 more at· the Uni:versity of Rochester. Accotding to Chris, m lll!icians dropped their prices during the worst of the current economic squeeze. When things. began to look up, Union was one of the places to suffer. The area ·where the new Social Committee has been most successful is the creation of ,gener,al trust in :the (ommittee's operation and cll.oices. \In general, students on campus have a totally different attitude towards the social life here,\ Chris commented. To achieve \ ... we . wanted to be. the heroes, not the bad guys.~' obtained from talking with students. <tThe Committee is very sensitive ·to changes. in cam.pus attitudes,\ Chris added, pointing ta the cancellation of Fall Term's James C0tton Blues Band concert because of an anticipated poor turnout. Still, Chris noted that trust in the Social Committee's receptibility and judgement would always lead to good concert turnouts. The Social Committee does encounter its difficulties, the number one being publicity. Chris feels that the problem has been overcome this year by blanketing of the entire campus, local high schools and colleges, radio stations, and newspapers. Booking conflicts, such as the one which occurred the C.W. Post game weekend,. are hal'der to avoid: \The Orleans date was made in December, not realizing the importance the game would have.\ .. Next year's Committee will proba~Iy stick to the same successJl.ll structure as now exists. Incoming chairman Doug Alcaide's committee will be concerned with integrating the new ice rink into its plans. According to Chris, the Social Committee has been working closely with the new Rink Manager N~d Harkness to determine how the rink can best Why is this man smiling? be used as a social facility fot all ~he students. With an expected capacity 2Y2 times that of Memorial Chapel, the rink will: iacrease admissions revenues and attenda·nce enough to permit ·h<>oking af a higher-price_d -concert. The new committee's plans for Spring Term so far include a 1entative Carnival Weekend, the Great Carnegie Party - Open I! ouse on April 10 which will officially mark Carnegie Hall's stat us as a student center, and another big concert. Also, the BSA will be sponsoring a concert ill Meinorial Chapel for the entire campus, featuring Donald Byrd and the Blackbirds. The job Chris Fink took as a personal challenge has been for him a pleasurable and successful experience. \We tried to give people a good time ... close off the 'suitcase school' routine,\ he commented. \We've been sincere in achieving a 'hopeful' atmosphere and getting people involved in putting on their own social events.\ The difference in the attitude on the Social Committee is reflected on by Mrs. Marra: \Chris worked with people instead of having people work for him.\ And with justified exhaustion, Chris concludes, \Maybe now I can go btrck to being a student.\ successful operation. No profit is made by the Committee, but \instead of losing money, we· wanted to break even,\ he stated. \Students sometimes think we're making money on them by charging admi!>sion, but we've lost some money on every event we've had.\ such a new attitude, the Committee itself went through rriany changes in sfructure. Increased in size 100% from last year's 12 to the present 24, the Committee ••is rurl by a 'responsibility flow diagram'. It works by way of making use of the separate individual skills and their personal initiative.\ Basically, as it is now structured, the Committee ~is divided into five divisions: sound, lights, publicity, stage, and miscellaneous; each' department is headed by a two- year committee ,veteran. In obtaining a better feel for student interests and desires, members of the Committee are required to have the \largest ears and the biggest mouths of anyone on campus.\ At least 25 names are reviewed before a final decision is made on any date - the names pooled from the impressions the Commit tee members have Dylan Comes ·Back Strong In accordance with the no- deficit goal oL the Committee, several changes·liad• to be made in planning for this Winter Term. The scheduled Jesse Colin Young- Leo Kottke concert was cut because of overrunning expenses: \We have a planned financial balance sheet and we're right on budget for the year due to the shaved concert,\ jChris explained. An example of the perils of overspending the budget can be seen in the crippled Spring Term social schedule of last year. With no money, the Committee limped through the planning' Continued from Page 4 listened to as a whole; no analysis is necessary. \Buckets of Rain\ meanwhile, sounds as if it were a cut from \Nashville Skyline';, one of Dylan's best efforts. Both of these songs indicate that Dylan has not lost sight of the music which is the foundation of his present and future efforts. , \Idiot Wind\ is a typical Dylan anew title: 0 lAWJOO ASSISTANT 0 a new career tor the COLLEGE GRADUATE Spting Program February 17th-May 16, 19.75 Summer Program June 9th-August 29, 1975 Fall Program September 29th-December 19, 1975 Adelphi. UNIVERSITY in cooperation with the NatioiHII Center for Paralegal Training • . . qu:difies you to assume .responsibilities with a law .firm, corporation or legal agency as a skilled member of. the .legal team. A challenging position ib incfeasing demand. You ctw specialize in: • Corporations • Estates, Trusts and Wills • Litigation • Real Estate and Mortgages A representative from Adelphi University Law- yer's Assistant Program will be on campus on March 11th from '10:00 A.M.-4:00 P.M. at the Placement Office to meet interested students. FQr more information contact the Placement Office or The Lawyer's Assistant Program, Adelphi University, Earle Hall, Gar- den City, New York 11530. (516) 294-8700 ext. 7604. ' . ' . .. . - ' .:,... ~- ' • ., ..__,...,..,. ' • • .-...>.'\ • ... I - • .• ~ n.umber. His voice is driven by the assures his malevolent critics t·hat circulating rhythm of the song, despite the fact that their \corrupt just like in \Tangled Up in Blue\. ways have lnade (them) blind\ he Dylan is crying out to those who will triumph in the end. With condemned and denounced his \Blood on the Tracks\ Bob J>oetry and art during his period Dylan has certainly done just ()f sorting himself out. Dylan that. ''I WOULD RAVE TALKED· ABOtrr rr YE~ JRJTIWAS LAUGHING !0011001£' -Gene Shalt!. NBC· TV HELD OVERI 3rd WEEK rrs A HOWLING SUCCESS! ·. - . . M·OHAWK MALL CINE 1·2·3-4 - ·ciN£MA 370-1920 .NOROfWAY MW. . BAllTOWNRD. SCH'DV COLONIE ~8300

Page6 CQNCORDlENSIS, Thursday, March 6,'19.75 ,ina)_ Sehedule FINAL EXAM-~ATION SCHEDULE Second Term- 1974-75 TANT -. This exam schedule is for regular, day undergraduate courses. A separate schedule for \Evening Division\ courses will be announced, and students in -~c:!C.t1 ·lon 51\ COUrses should be alert for the announcement of the exam time for those courses.) Conflicts in examinations should be reported to Mrs. De Groff in the Office of the Registrar not later than Monday, March 10, 1975. Examinations will be held in the assigned rooms. Listed below is the code of the building& to be used. BH - Bailey Hall · BU -· :Butterfield Hall HU - Humanities Building . NW -. Science-Engineering Center (North Wing) PY - Psychology Laboratory SS- Social Sciences Building SH -. Steinmetz Hall MONDAY, MARCH 17 9;00-11:00 A.M. F.E. 18 (Japanese Identity in Crisis) - SS 010- Prof. Thurston F.E. 19 (Communities and Utopias) - SS 012- Prof. Erenberg F .E. 23 (Music in Western Life and Culture) - AB 202 - Prof. Wilson F.E. 65 (Introduction to · Computer ProgramJ!ling Sec. 1 - BU 109 - Mr. Wong Sec. 2- BH 104- Prof. Russ F.E. 66 (Intelligetit Life in the Universe) - NW 116 - Prof. Schick F.E. 71 (Electric Power; Aspects of the Energy Crisis) BH 207- Prof. Sutter Comp. Ed. 23 (The Second World War Era) - SS 014 - Profs. Berk and Hansen Comp. Ed. 65 (Evolution and Man) - BH 20 L- Prof. J. Boyer Comp. Ed. 66 (Sex and Sexuality) - SS 016 -·· Prot Lambert Cornp. Ed. 67 (Perspectives on Computer Languages) Sec. 1- BU 109- Mr. Wong Sec. 2 - BH 104 - Prof. Russ Economics 142 (Macroeconomic Theory and Policy) - SS li 7 - ProL Kershner History 127 (The Development of the - American Economy) - SS 112 - Prof. Finkelstein French 133 (The French Language in Practical Usel) HU 117- Prof. Roberts German 133 (The German Language in Practical Use I) HU 115_- Prof. Warde Spanish 133 (The _Spanish· Language in Practical Use I) HU 116- Mrs. Vinick Philosophy 13 (Ethics) - HU 114 - Ms. Vetterling Biology 153 (Advanced Ecology) BH-106 -Prof. Tobiessen Psychology 10 (A First Course in \'·u \.'11 v /';;..Y) · Sec. 3 ~ PY 102- Mr. Sprin.g -Psychology 20 (Statistical Methods . m Psychology) --.-- PY 213 -· · Prof. Berthold Psychology 38 (Child Psychology)- PY 113 -· Prof. Britain . . · M. E. 30 -(Dynamics of Linear Systems) - SHllO -.Prof. Stelmack MONDAY,MARCH17 2:0.0-4:00 P.M. Comp.. Ed. 127 (Greek Art and Civilization)- SS 016 -· Prof.. Reece Comp. Ed. 154 (World Agriculture) - BU 106- Profs. Tobiessen and George Classics 24 (Greek Art and Civiliza~ion) - SS 016- Prof. Reece Economics 10 (Elementary Economics) Sec. 1- SS 115- Mr. B. Reynolds Economics 11 (Elementary Economics) Sec. 1- SS 113- Prof. Prosper E~onomics 141 (Monetary Economics) - SS 010- Prof. Phaup . English 11 (The English Literary Tradition: Augustan and Romantic)- HU · 114- Prof. Mu~phy English 122 (The American Short Story) -· HU 116 - Prof. Gado History 10 (Colonial Period of America ' 1607-1776)- SS 112- Prof. Erenberg _ History 142 (Modern Germany: Bismark to Hitler)- HU 115-. Prof. ·Hansen German 11 (Basic German II) - HU I I 7 - Prof. Klemm Russian 11 (Basic Russian II) - HU 110 - Mrs. Jernakoff Sociology 34 (Race and Ethnic Groups and Relations)- SS 117- Mr. Weiner Statistics 10 (Introduction to Statistics) Sec. 1 -c_SS 014- Mr. S. Schmidt Biology 145 (Protozoology) -. BH 201 -. Prof. Styles ·· Mathematics 28 (Probability)-- BH 207 - Prof. Tornga Physics 133 (Electricity and Magnetism II)- SH 219- Dean Wylen , Psychology 46 (Physiological Psychology) - PY 113 - Prof. Berthold Psychology 49 (Clinical Psychology II) - PY 102 - Prof. Dowling E.S. 20 (Mechanics)- BU 109- Prof. Panlilio · C.E. 43 (Foundations and Concrete Construction) - BU 300 - Prof. Harlow - TUESDAY, MARCH 18 9:00·11~00 A.M. F.E. 67 (Introduction to Contemporary Mathematics) ..:._ BH 102 - Mr. G. Reynolds Comp. Ed. .132 (The European Enlig.htenment: A. cross-discipli.nary approach)- HU ll2 - .. Prof. LeClerc Art 22 (Contemporary Issues in the Arts) -· AB 105- Prof. Moorhead Economics 140 (Labor Econ<>mic~ - SS 115 - Prof. Prosper English 13 (Major American Authors) - HU 114 - Prof. Hagen _ · English 153 (Stud~~ in Shakespeare) - HU 110-- Prof. Muqjhy HisJ,ory 36 (A . Surv-ey of Modern· Eur~pe, 1715-1945)- SS 112.=- Prof. Berk ' ELT 67 (l'Jte Enlightentnent;, A ·c~oss­ disciplinary approach).-· · HU 112-· . Prof. · LeClerc German 10 (Basic (Jerman I) -· .. HU 115 -. P.rof. Klemm Spanish 131 (bl.trod~ction to Spanish- American Literature)-· HU 116 -. Prof.· Riggio Political Science · 11 (The American Political System) -. Sec. 1 -. SS 113 - Prof. Tidmarch Political Science· 158 (International Law) - SS 110- Prof. Board Sociology 128 (Sociology of Medicine) ·· -· SS 117-. Mr. Carlile Statistics 202 (Statistical , Methods) - Sec. 52-.·· BH 312- Prof. Schmee Biology 160 (Functional Histology and Organology) - BH 207 - Prof. Roth Chemistry 1 0 :(Fundamental Chem~stry I) Sec. I .-· BU 204 -· Vrof. Scaife Sec. 2 -· BU 204- Prof. Weick _./ Sec. 3- BU 204- Prof. Scaife Geology 10 (Physical Geology) - BU 109 ~ Prof. Zimmerman. Mathematics 14 (Calculus III) - Sec. 2 - BH 104- Prof .. Tomga ·Mathematics 18 (Introduction -to Logic and Set Theory) - BH 203 - Prof. Loughlin Mathematics 138 (Multi variable Calculus I)- BH 106-. Prof. 'Gillette ~hysics 17 (Principles ~f Modern Physics II) - NW 222 -· Prof. Pilcher Psychology 10 (A First Cours~ in Psychology)- Set. 2 - ~y 102- Prof. Calabria ~.S.. 18 (Introduction to Digital Computers) -.See. 1 - SIJ tlO -. Prof. ' Hoffman · <;.S. 18 (IntroductioiJ. to Digital Computers) - Sec. ·t - SH llO - Prof. Hoffman _ _. TUESDAY, MARCH 18 2:00 ... 4:00 P.M. Comp. Ed. 52 (Scientific and Technical Photography)- BH-201 ..._Prof. Jones History-l58 (Russia in th~ Imperial Age) -· SS ll2 -· Prof; Berk · Chines 1_1 (Basic Chinese II) - HU 119 -Prof. Woo . French 11 (Basic French II) - HU 117 - Prof. Robert~ German 142 (RoiQ.antik und Realismus) - HU 113 - ProL Warde · .spanish II (Basic Spanish II) - HU 112 - Mrs. Vinick Statistics 10 (Introduction to Stastics) Sec. 2- BH' 312 - Prof. Schmee Chemistry 32 (Organic Chemistry II) Sec. 1 - BU 204 - Prof. Sheffer Sec. 2- BU 204 -. · Prof. Hull Chemistry 142 (Chemical Instrumentation) -. BU 109 -. Prof. Werner '

: _) M3;thematics 20 (Mathematical · Metbod~ the Social- Scienc~s I)·-. BH 102 -· . Ling Psychology 30 (Theory of Personality) PY 102 -. Prof. Newman Psychology 65 (Seminar U) -·. · PY 213 -· .· • ·!•.fn .~ ...... T. Girdner ' ... E.S. 26 (Thermodynamics and Heat · Sec. 1-· .. SH 106 -· Prof. Milillo Sec. 2 - BH 207- Prof. Aubrey E.S._ 33 (Fluid Systetns Analysis) -·· SH 10-- Prof. Shanebrook WEDNESDAY, MARCH 19 ':00.-Jl:OO A.M .. Economics 11 (Elementary Eeonomir;s) Sec. 3 -· SS H 3 - Prof. Lurie ~- . . English 20 (Elements of Composition) - 112 -. Prof. Mansfield German 130' (Readings in . Modern 1ern1an Literature) - HU 119- -. Prof. Biology 12 (The Cell - Core II) ·- SS- f5 - Prof. Lambert Biology 14 (Biology of Animals - Core - SS 016 - Prof .. Rappaport Biology 44 (Cytology) -- BH 201 - ·ttl-\......... G. Smith . Biology 170 (General and Comparative ocrinology) - BH 207 - Profs. Roth Buttersteiti Chemistry 154 (Physical Chemistry III) 222 - Prof. Frosch Geology 51 (Oceanography) - BU. 109 Prof. Zimmerman Mathematics 137 {Real Variable Theory - BH 20~ -· Prof. Maddaus Physics 13 (Introduction to Physics II) SH 100 -·Prof. Titus · .., . Psychology 10- (A First Course in SYCI101CI!!' ) Sec. I -:- PY 102 -· Pro~. Huntley E.S. 11 (Resistive Circuits) · Sec. I -·. BU 204 -. Prof. Goodheart Sec. 2 - BU 204 -. Prof. Russ E.S. 28 (Introduction to Semiconduetor and Circuits) Sec. 1 - SH 110- Mr. Chang Sec. 2 - SH 106 -. Prof. Gajjar . ~ WEDNESDAY, MARCH 19 2:00 .. 4:00 P.M. Comp. Ed. 21 (The \Powerful Woman\ Literature) -.· HU 116 - Prof. Mansfield Comp. Ed. 135 (Women \In Politics) -· . 110 -. Prof. Jancar C<?mp. Ed. 150 (Stereo, Television; and m~•u··~) , Last name A•K - BH 201 - Prof. Last name __ L-Z - BH 207 - Prof. Economics 145. (Mana!!~rial Economics) SS 010 - Prof. Kenney .. Political Science 139 (Seminar: Political - SS 117 - Prof. Board Political Science · 183 (Women and · ~ HU 110- Prof. Jancar . -- So~iology 60 (Methods of -Social Resear_ch) -. SS 014 -. Mr. Weiner ' AM 212 (Management Control Systems) Sec. 52 -· BH 310 - Prof. Maciariello Accounting 10 (Principles. of Managerial Accounting)-. HU 115-· Mr. Kauth Chemis_try 12 (Fundamental Chemistry - II) . Sec. I - :pu 204 - Prof. Sutter .Sec. 2 ·- BU 204 - Prof. Sutter Sec. 3 - BU 204 -. · Prof. Schaefer Sec. 4 - BU 204 - Prof. Schaefer Psychology 47 (History and Systems or Psychol<?gy) -· PY 113 - Prof. Calabria E.E. 36 (System Theory U) -· SH 110 -· Prof. Ingvarssori _ THURSDAY, MARCH 20 9:00-11:00 A.M. Art 142 (Principles Qf Environmental Art)-· AB 105 -. · Prof. Moorhead French 132 (A General View of French Literature II) - HU 117 - Prof. Thomas Mathematics 10 (Calculus I) Sec~ 1 -· BH 201 - Prof. Fairchild Sec. 2 - BH 104 - Prof. Hannan Mathematics 12 {Calculus II) Sec. I - BH 205 - Prof. Gillette Sec. 2 - BH 207 - Prof. Bick Sec. 3 - SS 112 -· Prof. Seiken Sec. 4 -· HU 114 - Mr. G. Reynolds ~ Sec. 5 -· . BH 203 - Prof. Loughlin Sec. 6 - BH 108 - Prof. Madd_aus Sec. 7 -. SS 115 - Prof. Strait Sec. 8 - HU 115 - Prof. Leach Sec. 9 - SS 115 - Prof. Strait Mathematics 30 (Ordinary Differential Equations) · Sec. 1 -. . BH 207 -· Prof. Bick Sec .. 2 - HU 115 - Prof. Leach Sec. 3 -. SS 112 -· Prof. Seiken Mathematic~ 32 (Abstract Algebra I) Sec. 1- HU 114- Mr. G. Reynolds Sec. 2 - BH 201 -· Prof. Fairchild Psychology 63 (Practicum in Child i Study II)- PY 213- Prof. Girdner C.E. 41 (Legal Aspects of Engineering) - BU 104 - Prof. Harlow THURSDAY, MARCH 20· 2:90•4:00 P.M. Comp. Ed. 20 (Filtn as Fictive Art) - SS 016 -·· Prof. Gado Art 33 (Sculpture H)- AB 105- Prof. Moorhead Economics 135 (Comparative Economic Systems)- SS 014 - .. Mr. B. Reynolds Economics . 152 (Women in the Economy)-· SSOIO -. Prof. Lurie English 166 (Modern English Fiction) ~ HU 115 - Prof. Mansfield History l77 (Modern. China) -· SS 012 - Prof. Thurston Spanish 144 (The Generation of 1898)- HU rllO - Prof. Riggio . Sociology 154 (Sociology of Knowledge) - SS 117- Mr. Carlile AM 151 (Fundamentals of Behavioral Science I) -·. BH 310 - Prof. Gries-inger Physics 140 (Introductory Quantum Mechanics) - NW 222 - Prof. Lewis Psycho)o.gy 24 (Social Psychology) - PY 102 - Prof. Newman Psychology 40 (Seminar in Adolescence) -· PY 113 - Prof. Britain E.S. 18 (Introduction to Digital Computers) Sec. 2- SH 100- Mr. Wong C.S. 1.2 (FORTRAN Programming) BH 207 - Prof. Mason C.S. 18 1 (Introduction to Digital Computers) Sec. 2- SH 100- Mr. Wong FRIDAY, MARCH 21 9:00-11:00 A.M. Comp. ·Ed. 55 (Metropolitan Land Use) - SH 100 - Prof. Mason Comp. Ed. 87 (Atomic Energy and Public Policy: The Nature of the Dilemma). - SH 101 - Prof. Pilcher Latin 12 (Latin Reading) - HU 110 - Prof. Testroet Economics 10 (Elementary Economics) Sec. 2 - SS 113 -- Prof. Phaup . Sec. 3 -~S 115- Prof. Prosper Economics 11 (Elementary Economics) Sec. 4 - SS 117 - Mr. S. Schmidt History 65 (Problems of Political and Economic Development in Modern Latin America)-· SS 010- Prof. Bristol~ Hebrew 11 (~asic Hebrew II) - HU 016 -_Mr. Welkovics · ·Philosophy 12 (~hilosophical Problems) - HU 112 - Ms. Vetterling Philosophy 20 (Classical Logic) -. HU 116 -: Prof. Peterson Biology 180 (Biochemistry) - BH 312- Prof. -Birecka . . Chemistry 1.62 (Polymer Chemistry I) - NW 222 - .. Prof. Sowa · E.S. 10 (Mechanics and Strength of Materials) Sec. 1 -. SH 106- Prof. Mittal Sec. 2 - SH 110 - Prof. Milillo C.E. 49 (Environmental Engineering I) · - BU 300 -· Mr. Snow T.E. 100 (Metropolitan Land UseJ- SH 106 -· Prof. Mittal 2:00-4:00 P.M. Art 18 (Photography II) - AB 313 - Prof. Rosenblum Economics II (Elementary Economics) Sec. 2- SS 117- Ms. K~nt .. History 15 (Modern America: The New Deal and After) -· SS 113 - Prof. Jonas Mathematics 14 (<;Iaculus III) Sec. 1 -· B~ 102 - Prof. Ling · Physics, 11 (Introduction to Physics I) (for Biology, Science and Humanities) Sec. 1 and 2 - BU 204 - Prof. C. Swartz Physics II (Introduction to PHysics I) (for Physical Science and Engineers) Sec. 1 and 2 - BU 204 - Prof. Windsor

' .I .. r Page8 CONCORDIENSIS, Thursday, March 6, 1975 arts Zeppelin finds dead end; .F. . ' h h. • · 1res·1gn s umo:r s 1nes on by OA VlO MOSKOWITZ Still, when we look at Zep.pelm objectively we see through9ut the One of the worst mistakes a course of the album very little popular music group_cfln make is change from a ba~;ic pattern. to fail to grow musically. Led Page's booming guitar is tracked Zeppelin has been·accused in the on to,p of bassist John Paul Jones' past of sticking to their parallel bass, creating the classic established trademarks and not metal sound. The melodies do not attempting any innovations that vary very much ~ consisting of might alienate their large fan repeating basic ideas. The few following. Looking at Zeppelin's changes of pace that do exist brand-new d ou b·le album ;seeml<Jst and out of place. Bron- \Physical Graffiti\ confirms the Yr-Aur (means \The Golden fact that they are a stagnant Breast .. in Welsh and refers to the musical force. hideaway where Page aad Plant Objectively reviewing Zeppelin write songs occasionaHy) is an is not easy, especially when faced acoustic guitar solo that in two wit-h wads of critical panning and ·minutes.' time can do little to a well-known reputation for change Zeppelin's usual pattern. \volume is king\ metal rock. Still, In general, basic<dly sound upon listening to \Graffiti\ tunes like Houses of the Holy are objectively one comesto the same transcribed into Zeppelin's patent conclusions. and the best I can do metal sound where they then lose isaccentuatethepositiveandhope all semblance of. melody. . A for the future; Robert Plant's typical example is the opening cut singing is at its usual level of Custard Pie where uriintelligible expressiveness (his voice sh~uld · lyrics are incorporated into a be considered a musical repeating metal feedback sound. instrument in itself with as much LedZeppelin is,--for whatever importance as Jimmy Page's reasons, one of the most popular guitar). Also, the group's lyrics and financially successful rock have evolved from naivity to a groups . around. They are more complex and reflective point understandably reluctant to lose of view although the songs deal such a followin~ evolving from . ' -b d b' t their trademark sound. Still, they more with mon un su ~ec s. . As You like lt had better, and s0on, before several talented performers find· themselVes trapped in an artistic dead end. * * * * Did you know that the South won the Civil War? That Indians can change into animals? That Ben Franklin was the only U.S. President who was never a U.S. President? That our founding fathers were \drug Users?\ That the Aztecs invented the vacation? That men and women are the same sex? Well, that's probably because 'everything you kngw is wrong', which coincidentally. happens to he the title of the latest album created by the Firesign Theatre, Firesign's eighth release is. another in their series of brilliant \radio plays\ which manage to transcend the rest of standard ' comedy-album material. \Everything You Know - Is Wrong\ relates the story of Dr. \Happy\ HarrY. Cox's investigation of alien beings in a small area of Arizona. What he • finds is that the alien invaders: don't know what milk is, play the piano (and beautifully, too), eat blue moss (which tastes terrible), · wear ladies' shoes and have friendly s;:,yes. Such lunacy is interspersed with some ama-zingly funny bits: the beer commercial mock (''Why do you think beer's yellow?\) is outrageous, and so is the segment · imitating small-town TV anchormen (which sounds frighteningly like our own buddies at Channel Six). Mssrs. Proctor, Bergman, Austin and Ossman have come up with another success - and it is ~orth listening to ... especially since everything you know is wrong anyway ... (Did you know that your brain is no longer the boss? ... ) Film Comm·i ttee Presents: Romeo and Juliet - 3 I 8-9 7, 9:15, 11:30 50~ This 1968 version stars the youngest performers ever t.o professionally play Shakespeare's ~tat-crossed lovers. ~hts lush romantic 15th century Itaha,n tragedy emphasizes youth; first love, and the tribulations .of adolescent innocence sacrificed to the evil rivalries ofmatunty. It's A Mad, Mad, Mad, Mad World - 3 /II 7, 10 40¢ . An all star cast performs: Spencer Tracy, Edie Adams, Milton Berle, Sid Caesar, Buddy Hackett, Ethel Merman, Mickey Rooney, Dick Shawn, Phil Silvers, Jonathan .Winters \ plus. This is an hilarious film dedicated to t~e no~1on that people are basically greedy, rapacious, and mgemous and never funnier when they are all three! The Paper Chase- 3/15-16 7, 9, II 50¢ No discounts for pte-law students. . Dollar bills, report cards, stock certificates, diplomas - good for kindling and making paper airplanes h'ut not much else - unless you go along with the program that 'they are essential for your well-being. Harvard Law student Timothy Bottoms runs the good race untif he finds they can only buy things, not happiness. John Houseman won ~n Academy Award for his role and the film won the Best Picture award at the Atlanta Film Festival in 1973. A sneak preview of what's up the Film Committee's sleeve for Spring Term: Deliverance, 2001: A Space Odys~ey, Cabaret, Cries and Whispers, Scarecrow, The Conversation, Jeremiah Johnson, Fritz the Cat, S,leeper, and last, but by all means not least, The Way We Were. Also coming: Doctor Strangelove, Dr. Zhivago, Pete 'N Til~ie, Singing in the Rai~, a night of favorite shorts, Rebel Wtthout a Cause, P1,1bltc Enemy, The Treasure of Sierra Madre, How to Marry a Millionaire, and Pink Flamingos. Next term please. note the following: we will be showing all of our films at 10:00 on Friday nigfit in addition to three times on Saturday night and two times on Sunday nights. Please note also that' next terfu, for a number of our films, we will be charging a slightly higher admission price. This increase is not due so much to the national trend of inflation but rather to our bringing in some of the most expensive films offered to colleges. Please remember that we have NEVER made a profit on any movie and that for example, a film like Cabaret costs us $1000 for the weekend, American Graffiti in excess of $725. We hope you will understand and continue to support the showing of films on campus. Theater Positions Available The College Film Series presents films appealing more to the artistic side .of the. college student. The films will be shown at 8:00\ p.m. Friday night, with no admission charge. (All of these shows will be followed by showings of the Film Committee's weekend film). The schedule for Spring Term 'is as follows: As You Like lt runs through Sunday night; reserve _ your tick:ets at the box office orcall6193. photo by ;u- k Sh • k • 1r1ar n1t ln WANTED! People interested in theater management and programming. No experience needed. · Talent not requirea. Applications available in Student Activities Office. For information read below or call. 370-6614. The scene 1s set; the plot developing; and the theater is opening its doors to the public. A conscious effort is being made to fill the house, only this time the house is not being filled f9r a play; it is for the theater Executive Board which guides, directs, and plans theater events for the year. Applications are available to all a11d everybody in Student Activities Office for the following positions: Program Director (He's the one- who arranges for outside acting troupes, films, and workshops to come..give Union some culture.), Campus Relations Director (He gets the rest of the campus to· keep the theater on its toes and vice versa.), Promotion ·Director (Sell!! Sell!! Sell::), Business Manager ($$$He hands out the monies, and looks for wealthy business people to start a foundation for Union's theater.), Historian (Four score and twelve years ago Mounties were. born, and someone has to keep track of what they're doin' - or at least keep them on a track.), and Technical Director (He shows other people how to electricute themselves. hang from the grid, hammer their thumbs, and commit hairy-carry. To this day he is the only one who knows where everything is.). Pick up your application while they last, and return them by the first week of Spring term. P.S. This is your big chance all you business-headed -people. Learn management principles from experience (who needs Eco. 145). April 4, The Easy Life. April 11, Macbeth (Welles). April 18, Mondo Cane. Aprif 25, The Red and t.be ·White. May 2, My Life to Live. May 9, Cleo from 5 to 7. May 16, W ornan· in the Dt~iles. May 23, The Pwnpkin Eater. May 30, to be announced. 'D<t1Siin@ I The Swe'et Sound) (;ORDON L()l\'l\' DUO plays for dancing Tuesday thru Saturday l\venings itt our Venetian Lounge. 1- rntteo s PAeurtf I .. COLONIE • 1673 Central Ave., Rt. 5 (518) 889-2635 Thf Paren perf or Basie, He wi piece on Sll be da will b parer origin Bonne exerci docto unav. howe' Paren degree ''C< born Augu: Bill 1 local piano spell 11 for not carr to WOI ffill! Joe~ entc bey Co C01 the carr ofte cha l con will rea~ and su~ ord l ,Cel roo con occ Pe~ pn< mu cro A Is con bar but nig fea1 wit boi par [ is · on rna sc mu spe am fri{ - ·J

CONCORI)!ENS1S: Thursday; March 6, 1975 Page9 Basi e. tO Perfor·m P·arents' Weekend ALISON JAMESON The highlight of this year's Parents' Weekend will be a performance .given by Count Basic, well known jaz~ m~ician. He will be appearing with'nls 17- piece orchestra in the Fieldhouse on Saturday, May 10. There will be dancing at the cotu;ert which will be free for students and their parents. Count Basie was originally invited by President Bonner to attend the graduation exercises and receive an honorary doctorate. in music. He was unavailable on that date, however, so. he will be here for Parents' Weekend and receive his degree then. . \Count\ William Basie was horn in Red Ba-nk, · N .l on August 31, 1904. As a teenager, Bill Basic. played the drums in local kids' bands. Later he took piano lessons aJtd began a long spell of touring theaters, • -· ~-= .• accompanymg vanety acts. While leading a band that was broadcasting from the Reno Club in Kansas City, he w~ dubbed .. 'Count'. During till:_ 1940's the Basic Band appeared at most of the major ballrooms and theaters in the U.S. Since the mid- 1960's, the hand had done several tours and recordings with famous vocalists like Frank Sinatra and . Tony Bennett. Count Bas.it's appearance here at Union is expected to appeal to both st'udents and their. pa1'eU.tl) , , and help to make Parents' Weekend a success. There will be many orher acfivities durin~ th·ose three days, May 9, 10, II. On Frid~y night thete will be a Cabaret P'ro:duction, a Mounteballk's :performance and a movie. Saturday morning will start oft' with continental breakfast at Hale House, . . Changes in· Housing c·ontinu~d from Pa2e I halls _ 3. South College- carpet halls & lounges 4. Smith House - refrigerator 5. Fox House 125 replacement mattresses & box followedby Open House in all the departments and offices of the c~Hege. Student awards wiH be given to Juniors and Seniors in Library Plaza after that. A picnic lunch catered by Maurice's will be held in Library Field at a\ cost of $1:.00 for everyone. Saturday . afternoon will be taken up with a lacrosse game,. a Mountebanks performance and a:n art show. Count Basic's concert will be at 9:00 Saturday night. Anyone who has any energy left is invited to performances by the men's and women's Glee Clubs Sunday morning in Memorial Chapel. The weekend actiVities will end with a carnival to be held on the lawn in back or the library. springs 6. ~ichm_ol)<LH onsP - replace desk chairs Schedule of Room Rates 1975-'76 •7. South Cqllege replacement lounge furniture . SuitesDoub- Sing~ 8. West College - refurnish library , Davidson House $795 Davidson Co-Qp 825 Edwards House les les $870 900 735 •'87Q 9. Richmond House - carpet halls 10. Fox & Davidson Fox House 795 870 Hickok House replacement ~arpet. . . Maxcv House The housmg office h~s ~Iso McK~an House announced.-.. _the sched~lmg of North College room rates for the commg year. North Co-op :'-II rooms _have ha? an equal Potter House mcrease of approximately $70. R . d H This figure was arrived at by R~yhmon d House d . .d. h 1 d 11 · 1c mon ouse . lVI mg· t . e totad o ar mcreahse. Smith House that was neede to meet t e· - ... --- budget · for next :year- liy ffie South College approximately 1300 rooms on Webster House , campus. ,Secondly, the housing. West Col~~. otiice bas adjusted the rates of Apartment~ $999. several dorms (before the . increases were added). The 735 765 750 750 780 696 870 870 870 900 696 870 735 870 73_5_&.7Q 696 870 750 870 675 870 adjustments were based on the b amenities offered by eachaalliE· Jo . SS!l:!5e55 dormitory. Summer jobs in Local bars offer atmosphere, escape environmentally related projects with . public service agencies, municipal offices and private groups. Jobs solely in New. England and New York State. 1--------...-------.-_..;_----.--by STEPHEN GRAYMAN .------------:-:------! If a Union student was looking for weekend entertainment, was not interested in the current campus activities, and was willing to venture off campus, Iw/she would find movies, local theater, museums and bars. The num~rous local bars effer a variety of entertainment and atmosphere beyond the limits of the Cabaret, Coffeeh.ouse- and Social Committee conperts. Of course the bars are not replacements for campus activities, but they do offer an alternative and the chance to see some new faces. The following information concerning entertainment in bars will hopefully be of use to some readers. The list is not complete and the comments are of course subjective and in no particular order. ' The Sweetwater Pub & Wine ,Cellar on Rt. 50 offers a large room with fine acoustics and contemporary folk music with an occasional semi-loud band. Peanuts are free and plentiful and prices in the medium rll.nge. The music draws a young attentive crowd. A good place for music. Also pn Rt. 50 Allen's serves up commercial hard ·rock show bands; very loud. There is a cover but prices are bearable. College nights Tuesday and Sunday feature cheap drinks for students with I. D. Allen's has· a loud and boisterous dancing crowd. The parking lot's a hazard. Downtown by the bus terminal is The Blockhouse Beef & Brew on State St. The B&B attracts many students.. mostly from SCCC, Jim Bigness is pretty much the house performer. His specialty is rowdy drinking_ music and lewd lyrics. , The crowd is friendly, rowfy and happy. _Sing- TYPING Realonabie Rates Fut Serrice· 393-2233· a-longs are common and the prices ,are cheap. This is not the place for passive listening. The Stables in Sheridan plaza shopping center is a rather sedate classy lounge. Entertainment has varied from jazz trios to folk music to top 40 and standards. The Stables · is still new and the crowd chang.es with the entertainment although it is somewhat more middle aged. The owners are friendly and unlike most classy lou11ge owners treat young people with respect generally reserved for the big money boozers. The sandwiches are the best (till 4 a.m.). Prices are medium-high. Schenectady can boast one of the most schizoid bars around. Jiggy's on Albany St. splits entertainment time with strippers and go-go dancers on weeknights and folk music weekends. Steve Swolchak is the house regular ... on weekends. Besides high prices, plastic decor, and an exterior that looks like a tool shed, Jiggy's suffers because many a customer comes in looking for skin, finds music, bitches but won't leave until he finishes his drink. Swolchak is quite good and handles the hecklers well. If it's strippers you want to see try The Bamboo Club on Brandywine Ave. or Lorenzo's on Broadway. Busby's on upper Union St. is a typical singles bar, but th_ey consistently bring in good mus1c. Dave Van Ronl<. passed through recently and many other Qluegrass, folk, -jazz, C&W and nJ ALTAMONT AVE. 'No DELW.ERY CHARGE WITH TWO PnZAS . uJ:I.S:ar CaiJ\74i-1'11 LUIGI'S IISTAURMT SPEOAl.I2HG N Italian,- American Food ·i 125 ..... ,,.ST.\ 0 SOENECTADY 016-97 .. blues bands play there. The crowd bump, do it at the Goblet on is a mixture of those wanting to Altamont · Ave. with 2nd rate listen to good music and those commercial bands. The Stardust looking to get laid. Prices are on the Thruway spur features high and there is an occasional music similar to the Goblet but cover. Busby's closed recently due . they throw in a comedian and cail to money problems but should it a Vegas show. Both places try reopen soon. to be high class but never really Perhaps the ideal spot for make it bey~hd being pickup Union students if The Rwti( Pub. joints (The Stardust will rent you lt_'s within very close walking a motel room). Both places are d1stance on Eastern Ave. The fun to be thrown out of. R~stic Pub is a plain old , Niskayuna's most popular spot ~etghbor?ood bar, but the owne~s is the Olde Craig Hotel on hke music and the new faces It Balltown Rd. The entertainment at.~racts: So w~enever they_ can. is sporadic (budget permitting,l afford It there ts good mu~1c on but good. However, when there is weekends. Th~ regular _drm~ers not a live group the sound system and weekend h~teners get on JU~t substitute is dynamite. The owner fine and g.ood times are alw:ays m has good taste in both live and order: Drmks are cheap With no recorded music. Prices are cover. Competition on the reasonable, the crowd young and bow~in.!? machine is inte~se .. The friendly, and the fireplace cozy. mus1c 1s usually good t1me folk That's it for now. There are and variations, for good times others but time and space does 'l.nd good listening. 1 ne music IS not permit. usually good time folk and variations, for good times and good listening. The Ramada Inn on Nott St. is noteable for its occasional Sunday jazz. Otherwise they feature commercial schlock a-nd high prices. If you like to do the All IN THE\ FAMILY 123 JAY ST. Kitchen Open I ll:30 A.M.-10 P .. M. BudonD...rt HAST A LA VISTA UNION SUNDAY, MARCH 9, 1975 NOTT MEMORIAL- - UNION COlLEGE EXPRESSIONS IN BLACK, 8 P.M. BENEFIT GIVEN BY: S.l.S. DONATION: $1.00 African Dancing, Modern Dancing, Sneak Preview - .\Ain't Supposed To Die a Natural Death\; Afterwards even more ex:pressin' at the Cabaret Room in Union's Student Center. HOLA ·BOGOTA ' -An Asll:onomicsl Boutique Gift S~op • 156 Jay St. sanect;~y lneemn •·Oill • 'Candles . a-. • Jewm • ;.m Leal~ .Goods • <1otblng • Hill IMce ~of Pipes and Paprn Mlllly Othfi!r Ac:ceQprils Deslpat to Suit Tile Mind And Soul Twelve-week Internship for G nid. Students, Seni.ors, Underclassmen. Very competitive and selective - $5.00 application fee. Deadline - Mart':h 14, 1975. Applications and information about specific positions at the Placement Office. I. THE FILM COMMITTEE presents IT'S A MAD MADMADMAD WORLD March 11 at 7, 10 • SS016 40¢ ,-.-fi,;;·;s·;····~ : difference!!! ~· •• • • · : ,EMRE FOil: bw1r ~ _years • : MCAT ::.. .. .:: : • 0 ..... Vo!Vm!IIO\IS horM : : ft I 1tlidy material a • • 1 .,..... Coursn that n • : I.GIII constenlly updated : • ·aRE Small cllssa • : · B~lyn <*'1111\ : : ATGSB =~~ : • . wtektrid... • : OCAT =.:·~~ .. · ! : c· BAY = ~:J'f: usee • . rill of $UJ)Illtmentary • 0 FLEX materials • : . . Mak•ups for : • ECFMG · :~~J:=! : • . Gel'lttl' . • i NAT'L MED IDS ! • THOUSANDS I-lAVE e : RAISED THEIR SCORES • e Branches in Metropolitan Area • : : & Major Cities· in U.S.A. · e iM: i • IDUCAliOHAL CENTER, LYD. : • . l£Sl·PAEPAIIATION t· 8 ll'f:CIAIIS'ISSIN<:E 111311 t : . (212-)336-5300 : • (516)538-4555 (315)652-9430 • 111'1875 Eu111th Stl8tlb:j. BI'OCiklp, N.Y. 1'1229 e ••••••••••••••

' •' I' I P.age 10 ;, CONCO~DIENSIS, Thursday, March 6, 1975 BLITHER WR UC general meeting and elections for all executive board positions - Wednesday, March 12, 8:00 p.m. in SSO 16. All those desiring airtime for spring term mUst attend! * * * * The Union College Women's Glee Club will perform on Friday, March 14th at 7:00 p.m. at the Spring Arts Festival, sponsored by the Hudson-Mohawk Association of <;;:olleg~s and Universities. The festival this year will be held at The College of St. Rose in Albany at 432 Western Avenue. All are cordially invited to attend. * * * * Jerome Liebijng will talk about his photography at a reception to be held at 4 p.m. in the Union Gallery in Schaffer Library on March 12th. Union Gallery is open Tuesday-Saturday 2-5 p.m. * * * * Professor Arnold Bittleman, of the Union College Arts Department, will present a discussion of\The Origins of Art ' in Human Behaviour\ to the Friday Afternoon Philosophy Seminar on March 7 at 3:00 p.m. in Humanities 213. The meeting will be followed by refreshments. All are welcome to attend. * * * * ·The date to order graduation announcements has been extended until March 14. * * * * Ski Patrol Meeting Thursday, March 13 at 4:30 in Strauss Lounge. All members must attend. - * * * * ' Suggestions for next_ year's Freshman Play are now being accepted. Everyone is welcome to submit his suggestions. Write them down and leave them in the Student Activities Office or at the N ott Memorial Theatre Box Office. ·* * -* * Reward - Lost wallet. Description: Black, initials F:G. If ·found please call 370-6530. Thank you. * * * * No person, other than a Union student, under any circumstances or with any kind of permission, is permitted to sell or solicit in any dormitory. Any person discovered in violation should be reported to Security ((il78) immediately. * * * * Students are reminded that all persons planning to withdraw or take a leave at the end of winter term should fill out a withdrawal form in the Office of the Dean of Students by March 14,~ the due date for spring term bills. Non- preregistration or nonpayment of spring term bills does not constitute notice of withdrawal. Students still unsure of their plans for spring term at the time of-the deadliu'e should -- consult with the Dean of Students concerning an extension .. Financial forfeitures for withdrawal after March 14 are severe. * * * * There will be a meeting of the Schenectady Protect Your Environment Club Thursday evening at 7:00 in the West College Library. The main attraction will be \Bubbles\ Siegel doing his famous fan dance with 100% recycled paper. Come one, come all! Coffee House The Coffeehouse is an informal gathering place which is open to the campus: faculty and students alike. For fifty cents one may sit and enjoy coffee and doughnuts while being entertained by some of the finest talent in the area. Union has had some very well known singers appear at the Coffeehouse. Names such as Bonnie Raitt, Jim Dawson and Jamie Brockett have performed here, just to mention a few. We have also presented some famous name \folkies\ such as John Roberts and Tony Berrand, Bill Staines, and Bottle Hi.ll (a Bluegrass Band). This spring we are presenting one of the (inest and most famoUs folk performers in the nation. Michael Cooney. In addition, by popular demand the Coffeehouse is bringing back to Schenectady Union's own favorite Bob Bernhardt. This weekend, on Friday, March 7th, Joe Cardiilo and the Outlaw Beer Band will Carol Hill , a senior arts major, is holding her senior art show at the Union Gallery located in Schaffer Library. The show will run until this Saturday. provide entertainment ·with their own country sourid.T o top off the bill, Union's Rich Moskowitz will perform a set of classical guitar music. Rensselaer Union Presents TOM-RUSH Sat., March 22, 8 P.M. also appearing ORPHAN Proctors Theater, 4th St., Troy. Tickets $3, $4, and S5; Info: ( 518) 270·6506. . ;• S uggesti01 Box ·Initiated· All you conscientous visitors to the Schaffer library have probably seen the new addition to the Union College Student government. In an effort to increase the channels of communication between the campus community and the elected oflicials of the student body a Student Government Suggestion Box has been placed on the first floor of the library. ·· It is hoped that the. students will use· this box to express any opinions- they may have on any subject which they consider relevant. We recognize the fact that there may be many issues or ideas which students can share with us and the box is just one ot,her way to make us aware' of student opinion. Student representatives, because of their academic responsibilities and the overall structure of the school, are unable' to be constantly running around looking for problems, so please help us to help you. You can do this by making the ·~student Government Suggestion Box\ a worthwhile and permanent fixture at Union. Vandalism Continued from Page 1 deal of man hours. But the inconvenience it will cosrto any person waiting to use these references cannot be matched in dollar figures. The articles that were ripped out all deal with the psychological examination of literature ~nd writers. Opinion No amount of security can protect_ books and periodicals from this sort of vandalism. Only those people who use this facility can stop this sort of thing. It can only be hoped that the people who do this will realize the costs involved and the inconvenience it causes so many other people. Professor Nina Rosenblum of the Department of the Arts will have paintings in an exhibition in New York City. The exhibition will open at the Queens Museum in the New ,York State Building, in Flushing Meadow Park, on the Fourteenth of March. fERRO'S ~CY Junior Mark Rosenthal drops an. idea Student Government Sugge$tion Box. The suggestion box is located at sitje of the Union Gallery in Schaffer Library. ·Politic-al S.clence Conference This Saturday, March 8, the students in the second semester of the two-term P .S. lOt 11 and II I 10 · course that Profel)sors Frederick Hartwig and Byron Nichols teach, are giving presentatiQns of the research projects each has done in the course. They hope this ··c(mference on Comparative Political Analysis\ will give the students involved some experience in making oral presentations and at the same time provide a \gallery\ for the art of .social science research. Professors Hartwig and Nichols hope all will attend the Conference. Many of the research projects are interesting and have- been done well. They think everyone will find the Confere_nce itself interesting, as well as many A Display of the Photography of ~ ·JEROME LIEBLING is on display in the UNJ.ON GALLERY in Schaffer Library March 10-28 Prepare .for M.CAT/May3 LSAT I Aprill9, July 26 GRE/April26, June 21 Review Class Evenings/Weeke'nds FOR INFO CONTACT: of. the research reports. The presentations will begin at 9:00 a.m., break for lunch at II :55 a.m., begin again at 1:30 p.m., break from 2:45 p.m. until 3: IS p.m. and end at about 4:30 p.m. Group I will meet in SS 113, Group II in SS In Each presentation wi H last about 25 minutes, so late comers are more than welcome. For a list of ~chedqled speakers and subjects, contact Professor Hartwig or Professor Nichols. Harkness Continued from Page ~ rink rental will be decided upon in the near future by the Administration, Harkness noted. , Hockey Team Harkness ·has been doing a good deal of traveling 'lately, speaking to alumni groups in areas such as Toronto, D!!troit, Buffalo, and Providence. He hopes to utilize alumni to a greater extent in the rearuiting process. Harkness - said that Union's hockey team. could possibly play a twenty game schedule, with as many as twelve home games possible. Harkness noted the ditiiculty in scheduling, however, and said that many of Union's first-year opponents will be JV or club teams. Overall, Harkness ex-pressed great enthusiasm for the ice facility. He stated his firm conviction that the rink would, upon completion, become \the hub of activity on ~ampus\. -- ~ - --- ·.tevt.:..s PARAMOUNT PICI'URES i••c•o:nts A-RliE Fll.\1 The ·--mJDINT . DISCOUNT' .......... T·ESTINGREVUE FRANCO ZEFFIRELLI ..... ··- ' ....... . ·~lilg Union For Three G-.eiations' ' •• \. St.• ·for II~ Scntce' .. v..i ~ .ltMII)- P.O. BOX 8697 ALBANY, N.Y. 12208 - .US.9877 _,__ Produrlion.of RoMEo 8JULIET ' -

a a 11 l - CONCORDIENSIS,. Thursday, March 6, 1975 Page 11 l INTRA MURALS Bernatein Monday 7:00 \ ·~· .. L- Wed., 7:00 r.h< p.; nnn Monday ? :00 \·'· \\ ':'hursday !:00' Zee Man~ay 8:00 - Si- Ph; Wed., 8:00 R..t.o . ·Mon4~Y B:OO Finals 7:':l0 - Mathus .. \An Lea • l!ars1.ty Court B.S. A. i!onclay ~HXl C: H -\\_A\ FaouH.v u. Os l!or.day 9:00 _ Zoom\\T'R ... \'' .. Mond?-;Y 10:00 Annex Delta Chi Monday 10:00 Chi Psi ttA 11 I 'Tues, - ·z,oo p.m Foster Ave, Bon ers Kappa Alt>ha h'ed., 9.i00 J•,'f;!d., 10:00 WednesdaY· ?p. m · Frosh Thursday 7:00 ·' 'l'nes. -·?•OOpm, +-------__;. l!arkenrider Tues,- 8100pm, Hevey's 1st Floor' F Thursday, 7•00pm, 1 ---'----- Fl1osh· •- Wednesday Bpm, J-------i Frosh FINALS Friday, z·a OOpm Frosh Wednesday 9 pm. ·1-------. Frosh Th~rsday, 8100 pm, Frosh T!.!es 1 - 10•00pm,t---------.,......, G. Cohen Wednesday 10pm. Frosh • TRACK by ALISON SLOAT After a disappointing day at the RPI Invitational last week, the Union thindads bettered their performances to emerge third placers in the annual Cortland lnvy. Bill Mowery continued his winning streak by heaving the shot put 50'6\ to clinch the event and establish a new meet record . High jumper Dave Plumer cleared 6'4\ but was edged out of \ a win in the event. ! Union picked up team points in \ the pole vault as Ed Adams • . . cleared 13'6\ for a second and Steve Mastaitis grabbed fourth place for the team. Nipped at the finish by Salom; of Hamilton, Milt Herring sprinted 'to a 6.5 second place finish' in the 60 yar:d d~sh. Mark Scheuer, Mike AugeJ, Wayne Heyw~od, and Jeff Broomes, combined for third in the mile relay, while Roy ' Wandlemeier, Jim Boyer, Bob Moffat and Steve Jones joined forces for a fourth in the two mile relay. at m Haltimore and Tel Throughout the day problems were met with glare on the track, causing poor visibility and resulting in numerous disqualifications for many competitors due to stepping off the track. Plattsburg State was unaffected, however, as their team sailed to a Win nearly unchallenged. Union placed third in overall competition, defeating U of Rochester by a slim single point. This Saturday Memorial Fieldhouse will be the scene of the nineteenth annual Union College Invitational. . Schools from all over the east will be travelling to S.chenectady to compete in the days events. Give the books a rest sometime during the day and venture over to the fieldhouse to see a talent ridden group of lads compete in their favorite track and field event~ Attending in wrestling are: (l-r) Junior Co-Captain Tom Everett (158lbs.), Freshman Josh Salzmann (177 lbs.) and Senior Co-eaptain Bruce Freeman TYPING Reuoqble Rates •. FutS«Yke ' 393•2233· ••••••••••••••••• : Carlo's Pizza & I a I : Spaghetti House.: 8 U ndei\ New Management I : 46l NOtT·ST. I li BIG N. PLAZA • • • • '377-0081. • • • • OPEN 7DAVS • • 5 RERCENT I •• DISCOUNT W /1..0. a •••••••••••••••• ~·~~ FOR LIQUOR AND WINE Try Jcie Lipsfein's 464 State Street FR4·1U8 The Union College record breakers at the recent State Swim Meet: back (l-r ), Bill West, Jim Lowe, Tom Richardson; front row, Nick Gassaway, Tom Broderick. Intramural Hoop - T earn trophies will be awarded to the top team in the two divisions. The top student team from the \A\ division will represent Union in the Tri-City Tournament being held at Siena, Aprill4, 15, 21 and 23. Cross-Country - Anyone interested in an A.A.U. sponsored \Bankathon\ cross-country race on Sun«;lay, March 23, see Coach Knull for more details. Course is between Schenectady and Albany -Prof. Bick where are you? Women's Tennis - A meeting will be held on Monday, March lOth at 4:30 p.m. in Alumni Gym for those women interested in Spring tennis competition. Matches for this spring include: Smith College, Russell Sage, Mt. Holyoke, Russell Sage, R.P.l. and Skidmore. SPORTS SHORTS Women's Hoop - The last home game for the women•:. basketball season will be held on Monday, March lOth at 7:00 p.m. in the fieldhouse. Volleyball Results - The women's intramural volleyball tournament W!iS concluded February 13th. Captain Margaret (Sam) Goldin and her teammates Barb Dewey, Tobi Goodman, Pat Clarey, Janet Berbrich, Barb Claflin, Laura Maynard and Gwen Young were first place winners. Members of the second place team were: Alison Sloat (Captain), Julie Rothenstein, Joan Lundstrum, Pam Anderson, Ricky Lorber, Allyn Price, Barb Buvri, Lynn Batemore and Michelle Aronson. Chlorine Carnival- There will be a swim meet on April I, 1975. Deadline for entries is March 21. Entry requirements are that you have a coed team composed of 3 men and 3 women. Events include: Inner tube relay, Honeymoon relay, Kickboard relay, Piggyback rela)'. Treasure hunt, Cannon ball contest, Most spectacular dive and Free style race. For more information call 6284. New Contract ? DUE TO THE EVER INCREASING DECLINE IN WRESTLERS, IT HAS BECOME NECESSARY FOR US TO REVISE SOME OF OUR RULES. SICKNESS: NO EXCUSE: We will no longer accept your 'docto(s statement as proof, as we believe that if you are able to go to the doctor's office, you are able to come to practice. . . DEATH (OTHER THAN YOUR OWN) --- THIS IS NO EXCUSE - There is nothing you can do for them, and we are sure th.at there is someone else with a lesser position who can attend .to the arrangements. LEAVE OF ABSENCE (FOR AN OPERATION) - We are no longer allowing this practice. We wish to discourage any thought that you may need an operation as we believe that you need all of whatever you have and ·you- should not consider having anything removed as long as you are wrest·ling for Union. We train you as you are a.nd to have anything removed would certainly make you less than we bargained for. DEATH (YOUR OWN) - This will be accepted as an excuse. but we would like to have two weeks' notice as we feel that it is your duty to tr!lin someone else for your weight class. _. Coach Gale Knoll Rustic Pub 803 Eastern A venue This weekend -we've got music and good times with DA WNT·READER an acoustic duet we know you'll enjoy listening to. Fri.-Sat. 9:30 * Closing ..

,. \: I ,. ,. i, - ! Page 12 CONCORDIENSIS, Thursday, Maroh 6, 1975 -- ~~ . -~-~:=;; • -·. ~ ;;.<: ... ·; -. .-~ -:/: -~ -~·- ~t~~i:~;~- Hoop Finishes at -18-4 Natienally ranked Union in team qefense (64.7 average College basketball· team, coached _ points scored by opppnents), by Bill Scanlon to an 18-4 record, according to _ the latest (2/rl.) will be host to the annual ECAC NCAA Division III ·official Division HI Upstate New Y otk statistics. Basketball Tour{!Ament on Friday There will be· two qualifying and Saturday, March T aAd 8, in ECAC .games Friday night {j /7): Memorial Field House. Seeded #2 Oneonta State ( J5,8) Director of Athletics, Bruce will:(Tla\y seeded #3 Fredonia State Allison, received official notice of: ( 15-7) at 7 p.m.; and seeded #4 Union's ECAC designation ::iS No. Hamilton College ( 12-9) will play I seed and host. of the regional seeded# l Union College ( 18-4) at torunament immediately after 9 p;m. This will be the third time Union dos.ed its regular this season that the Dutchmen basketball season last week by -and Continentals will play. defe~ting R.P.L 77- TI- in ln the regular s¢ason contests, overtime. The game was the J.I 9th Union defeated Hamilton 80-71 at between the ar,ch rivals since their Clinton and Union won 72-63 in series began in 1899. Schenectady. A week ago Tuesday the The winners of the Friday night Senior Tri-Captain Bill Carmody fires jumper against R.P.l Carmody took game scoring honors with 20 points. He will conclude career in E. C. A. C. Tourney, March 7, 8. Garnet hoopsters suffered· the ECAC games will play for· the most shocking loss in several 1975 ECAC regional basket ball years in bowing to a hustling but championship on Saturda~ night inferior Kings Point quintet 65- :at 8 p.in. in Memorial Field 64. Union was in control for the House. There will be no whole first half and held a twenty 4 'consolation game.'' Playing The Field· As the s~ason ends for any team in any sport, it is always a difficult thing to measure what degree of success has been attained from the effort expended. Too often, many look il,llmediately and ex:clusivel'y at the won, loss record; e.g. 18-4, a very good year. This is certainly one good-indication for the simple reason that winning is fun, losing seldom, if ever, is. I like to win too, as much as anyone else. I've participated in the basketball program at Union for the past four years. During that time the varsity record has been 74-18. But, when I sit down and think in terms of success or lack of it, it's not just the winning that matters. This should be the attitude taken with every athletic team and sports program. Up until Thursday's home final, this year's basketball campaign had been a good one. There were four very tollgh losses but they were balance~by 17 victories. Bill Carmody broke all the school assist records, Charlie Gugliotta was the Christmas Tourney's M.V.P. and John Denio and Carmody joined him a,s all tourney selections. The team was ranked second in New York State and nationally in several categories. Height was always lacking; hustle never was. . It almost had to be a good year because unlike other schools anywhere, Union College never has to play \away games.\ The floor, rims and lighting may have been strange sometimes and the seating a little different but when that first shot goes through the hoop it's like we never left home. I doubt anyone actually ran through all the warm-ups at Post, Tufts or Williams, I'm sure some did some floating as I did. · As Thursday brought the end of the regular season, the question of success arose once again. As I looked around Memorial Fieldhouse _though, the signs of success were everywhere. Present, as usual, were parents of former players long since graduated, also many families and senior citizens whose regular attendance at games could only be matched by simil~r devotion in church. Of course if the \psyche section\ ever failed to show due to some unimaginable calamity, there would remain a large gap in the center of the North grandstand. That spot is theirs forever. The same goes for the Sig Chi's, Ch( Psi's, D. U.'s and numerable otner entities from the cam~us. ' If the Dean of Faculty or the Economics Department chairmen were not amongst the North Stand faithful, somehow I doubt that the opening whistle would ever blow. If a dozen or so Denio's are not seated across the way by gametime, one would expect the cow bell not to ring or the ball not to bounce. Everything was in place last week. R.P.I. was there 'too (N.C.A.A. bound R.P.I. to be exact). The Dutchmen took charge from the start and led most of the way to the obvious .delight of the crowd and discomfort of the engineers. The tide turned however and R.P.I. caught up and then went ahead by three points in the overtime. Probably a few strangers were beginning to doubt if this team had what it takes to be successful. If they could have done so, they might have voiced such an opinion to some of the players. However, the fans had not budge~, o~ course, and it was still nice and very noisy. Carmody hit a 3 pomt Jumper from Nott Street, Denio sank 2 foul shots Joel Fisher ripped down a few rebounds and the game was in th~ bag, the season a success. What's that you say, what if Billy hadn't canned the jumper? Well ... Gugliotti, Fisher or Steve Kelly could probably answer that, but I doubt they heard your question. editor . Women'~ Softball - All women interested in playing Intercollegiate softball should attend a meeting on March 12th at 4:30p.m. i~ Alumni Gym. Uniforms and gloves will be provided by ~he Athletic Departm.ent.. The tentative softball schedule will mclude games with R.P.I., Siena and S.C.C.C. ameng others. ' . point edge midway through the Tickets for each night's contests second half before the roof caved cwiU be sold only at the Field m. ·House, starting o'ne hour before The RPl c.ontest was alm<'lst a .scheduled game ti:ne ($2.00 for carbon copy of 1he Kings Point adults, and $1.00 f0r students). game with Bill Carmody leading · Tri-Captain Bill Carmody was the Dutchmen to an 18 point .selected' five times by the weekly The Garnet freshmel'l closed advantage before the engineers Honor Roll ofECAC Division HI out their basketball season on a rallied. Regulation time expired· 1:or his Union efl'orts. The 5' II\ winning note last Thursday with. the two teams deadlocked, .guard estabiished a· new season. defeating a very talented R.P.l. both having failed to connect on :record with 133 assists, five better J.V. squad 77-64. The game, shots in the w-aning seconds. In than the record he set in 1974: played at the Fieldhouse, avenged the overtime RPl jumped ahead Carmody made 119 of his 242 an earlier defeat to the engineers by three but the character of the field attempts {49.2%) and 42 of at '87 Gym in Troy. squad, proved strong. Carmody his 50 free throws (84%). He also The victory was a very hit on a jurrip shot from deep in. averaged 8.7 rebounds and satisfying one for the Dutchmen the corner and made the foul shot handed out 49 ass.ists. a~d first _year m~ntor Earl Rog~rl to co~plete a three point play. He Theer are two other ~double after a frustratmfl ·season which and Denio hit clutch fouT'shots to- figur.e scorers on the Union team: ended with the first losing record, maintain and increase the margin Steve Kelly, a junior averaging 5-9, posted in several years. They and Joel Fisher hauled d.own 11.3 ·points Pt:r game hitting were hampered all year long with every rebound on the defensive 47.4% from the field and 62...8% injuries and seldom had enough boards 'to insure the victory. i'rom the foul line. He gar~tered players to practice. lt was not Typical <?f all ~PI-Union 15~ ·rebounds and ~ade 36_go~ls until the last 2 games of the year, con~~sts, thts was by iar the ~ost ~ststs. John De.ruo, a JUruor a 97-90 double overtime Joss to . excttmg hol!le game of the year. ~:veraged 1?. 7 pomts, shot 52% Siena Jay Vees and th~ R.P.I. Union ~allege . ra~ks fourth l_rom the ftel~, 65.6% from· the victory, that the team began to gel al)long the natw~ s college Ire~ throw stnpe and also had 45 offensively and defensively. . bas~etball t~ams m av~rage asststs and 4~ rebounds. Several players had excellent ,sconng marking _(80.'3-64. 7 to! a Coach B1H Scanlon \Yas seasons while everyone necessarily 1.5.6 aver~ge wm~mg .. margm)~ rl':~en~ly chosen_ 1975 Capital played and contributed stxt.h natiOnally m held goal Dtstnct c.oach of .the Year by th~ extensively. Center Mike Smith percentage (685 of 1;339 shots for Albany T1mes-Umon sports staff. was the leading rebounder and 0;512 goals made) and thirteenth scorer all year. He scored 18 and 26 points respectively tn the last two games. Forward Tom Casey. proved an outstanding offensive threat ·throughout the year and chipped in 12 against R.PJ. Bob Carey .and Tom Boyle providei:l consistent support at the forward positions with Carey hitting a season high of 2'3 points -against Siena. Tom Flynn displayed great desire and hustle all season while alternating between the forward and center positions. He had twelve big markers in the win over R.P.I. With Tim Minneci lost to mononucleosis. the backcoilrt operated inter-<:hangeably with four men. Pat Mulvey provided the sparkle alternately with Ch\ick Assini. lhe former specialized in long range jumpers and slashing drives while Assini set up many baskets With nifty assists. Schuylerville's Dan De Gregory provided the all important steadiness at both ends of the court as did Rich Rafalik whose shooJing touch broke down many a zone during the year. Though the season was· disappointing overall, the team fought hard and were in every contest.· We can look forward to seeing many of them in important varsity roles in the years to come, Charlie Gugliotta, shown taking a jump shot in the Post game, will m~ke final appearance at Union in ~E. C. A. C. ~ourney this weekend~ WEAl · oversig offic;~; weatlle is paid -- _, .j l.r que: coe• floc fore 1 pla1 me1 W@ int( rou fun do• me she of tO! we an co en an an m• ' ec te w di w re 0 b n 0 fi t• f ( F r

,; i' ,, Page 12 . CONCORPIENSJS, Thursday, March 6, 1975 · .- Hoop Finishes of -18-4 - / ~ f ' .A-waits E.C.A.~C . Nationally ranked Unio'n College basketball· team, coached . by Bill Scanlon to a:n 18~4 record, will be host to lhe annual ECA«;::: Division HI Upstate New York Basket baH Toun:~ament ,on Friday and Saturday, March 7 a-nd 8, ia Memorial Field House. Direct0r of Athletics, Bruce Allison, recei->ed official notice of Union~s ECAC designation as No. 1 seed and host of the regional torunarnent immediately after Union closed its · ng;ular basketball season last week by defeating R.P.l. 17-7( in overtime. The game was the lcl9th betWeen the arch rivals since their series began in 1&99. . . ' . in team ·defense (64. 7 average points scored by ()pp:.onents), according to,. the latest (2/22) NCAA Division 111 official statistics. There will be· two qualifying ECAC games Friday night (3(7): Seeded t/2 Oneonta State (l5~S) wiH,p-1a:y seeded #3 Fredonia State (15-7) at 7 p.m.; and seeded #4 Hamilton College (12-9) will play seeded #I Union College ( 18·4) at 9 p,m. This will be the third time this season that the D1:1tchmen -and Continentals will play. ln the regular season. contests, Unioa defeated Hamilton 80-7! at Clinton and Union won 72-63 in Schenectady. Senior Tri:..Captain Bill Carmodyfires jumper against R.P.I. Carmody took game scoring honors with 20 points. He will conclude career in E. C. A. C. Tourney, March 7, 8. A week ago Tuesday the Garnet hoopsters suffered- the most shocking loss in several years in bowing to a hustling but inferior Kings Point quintet 65- 64. Union was in control f0r the whole first half and held a twenty point edge midway through the second half before the roof caved The winners of the ·F\riday night ECAC games will play fo{ the 1975 ECAC regional basketbaJl championship on Saturda~ night at 8 p.in. in Memorial Field H'o1:1se. There will be no '\consolation game.\ Playing The Field As the s~ason ends for any team in any sport, it is always a difficult thing to measure what degree of suceess has been attained from the effort expended. Too often, many look ifP.mediately and exclusively at the won, loss record; e.g. 18-4, a very good year. This is certainly one go'?d· indication for the simple reason that winning is fun, losing seldom, if ever, is. I like to win too, as much as anyone else. I've participated in the basketball program at Union for the past four years. During that time the varsity record has been 74-IS. But, when I sit down and think in terms of success or lack of it, it's not just the winning that matters. This should be the attitude taken with every athletic team and sports program. Up until Thursday's home final, this year's basketball campaign had been a goo9 one. There were four very toggh losses but they were balanced, by 17 victories. Bill Carmody broke all the schaol assist records, Charlie Gugliotta was the Christmas Tourney's M.V.P. and. John Denio and Carmody joined bim a.s all tourney selections. The team was ranked second in New York State and nationally in several categories. Height was always lacking~ hustle never was. , It almost had to be a good year because unlike other ·schools anywhere, Union College never has to play «away games.\ The floor, rims and lighting may have been strange sometimes and the · seating a little different but when that first shot goes through the hoop it's like we never left horne. I doubt anyone actually ran through all the warm-ups at Post, Tufts or Williams, I'm sure some did some floating as I did. - As Thursday brought the end of the regular season, the question of success arose once again. As I looked around Memorial Fieldhouse ..though, the signs of success were everywhere. Present, as usual, were parents of font;ler players long since graduated, also many families and senior citizens whose regular attendance at games could only be matched by simil!lr devotion in church. Of course if the \psyche section\ ever failed to show due to some unimaginable calamity, there would remain a large gap in the center of the North grandstand. That spot is theirs forever. The same goes for the Sig Chi's, Chr Psi's, D. U.'s and numerable ollier entities from the caml?us. 'If the Dean of Faculty or the Ecunomics Department chairmen were not amongst the North Stand faithful, somehow I doubt that the opening whistle would ever blow. If a dozen or so Denio's are not seated across the way by gametime, one would expect the cow bell not to ring or the ball not to bounce. Everything was in place last week. R.P.I. was there 'too (N.C. A.A. bound R.P.L to be exact). The Dutchmen took charge from the start and led most of the way to the obvious delight of the crowd and discomfort of the engineers. The tide turned however and R. P.l. caught up and then went ahead by three points in the overtime. Probably a few strangers were beginning to doubt if this team had what it takes to be successful. If they could have done so,. they might have voiced such an opinion to some of the players. However, the fans had not budged, of course, and it was still nice and very noisy. Oirmody hit a 3 point jumper from Nott Street, Denio sank 2 foul shots, Joel Fisher ripped down a few rebounds and the game was in the bag, the season a success. What's that you say. what if Billy hadn't canned the jumper? Well ... Gugliotti, Fisher ot Steve Kelly could probably answer that, but I doubt they heard your question. editor Women's Softball - All women interested in playing intercollegiate softball should attend a meeting on March 12th at 4:30p.m. in Alumni Gym. Un!forms and ~loves will be provided by the Athletic Department. The tentative softball schedule will include games with R.-P.I., Siena and S.C. C. C. amemg others. • Fres-hmen Victors in. The RPJ contest was almost a carbon copy of 1he Kings Point game with Hill Carmody leading the Dutchmen to an 18 point The Garnet freshmen closed advantage before the engineers out their basketball season on a rallied. Regulation time expired· winning note last Thursday With. the tWo teams deadlocked, defeating a very talented R.P.l. both having failed to connect on J. V. squad 77-64. The game, shots in the waning seconds. In played at the Fieldhouse, avenged the overtime ~Pt jumped ahead an earlier defeat to the engineers by three but the character of the at '87 Gym in Troy. squad -.proved strong. Carmody The. victory was a very hit on a jurrip shot from deep in satisfying one for the Dutchmen the cqrner and made the foul shot· and first year mentor Earl Rogert to complete a three point play. He after a frustratin_g ·season which and Denio hit clutch foutshots to- ended with the first losing record, mainJ;ain and increase the margin 5-9, posted in several years. They and Joel Fisher hauled down were hampered all year long with every rebound on the defensive injuries and seldom had enough boards '1o insure the victory.' players to practice. It was not Typical <?f all l_{Pl-U nion: until the last 2 games of the year, con~~sts, thts was by far the J?OSt a '97-90 double overtime loss to. excttmg hoJ:!Ie game of the year. Siena Jay Vees and the R .. P.I. Union College ranks fourth victory, that the team began to gel aQlong the natio~'s college offensively and defensively. . basketball teams m average Several players had excellent ,scoring marking (80,3-64. 7 for a seasons while everyone necessarily 1.5.6 aver~ge win~irrg .. margin), played and contributed su-t:h natwnally m held goal extensively. Center Mike Smith percentage (685 of 1,339 shots fot was the leading reboufider and 0;512 goals made) and thirteenth scorer all year. He scored (,8 and 26 points respectively in the last two games. Forward Tom Casey. proved an outstanding offensive threat 'throughout the year and chipped in 12 against R.P.l. Bob Carey _and Tom Boyle providea. consistent support at the forward positions with Carey hitting a season high of 2'3 points -against Siena. Tom Flynn displayed great desire and hustle all season while alternating between the forward and center positions. He had twelve big markers in the win over R.P.l. With Tim Minneci lost to mononucleosis, the backcourt operated inter-changeably With four men. Pat Mulvey pr,ovided the sparkle alterna~ely with Chuck Assini. The former specialized in long range jumpers and slashing drives while Assini set up many baskets with nifty assists. Schuylerville's Dan De Gregory provided the all important steadiness at both ends of the court as did Rich Rafalik whose shoo~ing touch broke down many a zone during the year. Tickets for each night's contests will be sold only at tlte Field ·House, starting o'ne hour before scheduled game time ~$2.00 for adults, and $1.00 fer students). ·. Tri-Captain Bill Carmody was selected five times by the weekly Honor Roll ofECAC Division 1II for his Union efforts. The 5' 11\ guard establ'ished a new season. tecotd with 133 assists, five better than the record he set in I 974: Carmody made 119 of his 242 field attempts (-49.2%) and 42 of his 50 free throws (84%). He also averaged 8. 7 reboundS ·and handed ou't 49 assists. Theer are two other .. double figure scorers on the l,lnion team: Steve Kelly,· a junior averaging 11.3 -points pe_r game hitting 47.4% from the field and 62...8% frqm. the foul line. He garnered 159 ;rebounds and made 36 ~goals assists. John Denio, a junior averaged 10.7 points, shot 5~% from the field, 65.6% from the free throw stripe and also had 45 assists and 40 rebounds. Coach BiB Scanlon was recently .chosen 1975 Capital pistrict Coach of the Year by the Albany Times-Union sports staff. Though the season was· disappointing overall, the team fought hard and were in every contest.' We can' look forward to seeing many of them in important , varsity roles in the years to come. Charlie Gugliotta, shown taking a jump shot in the 'Post game; will make final appearance at . Union in ,E.C.A.C. T_ourneythis weekend:. WEAT oversigl offi~'!. weatbe1 is paid. In que! COe( floo fore r plar mer WOI int~ rou fun GO\ me: she of tog WO a.n' COl en1 an. an ill( ' eq te4 wi di WI re 01 bl ·nl 0 fi t< f c F p a p t ( ( t I

Berk cross- Prof. 115 Prof. 13- Law) s) - and try I) BU 2 Logic Prof. iable . m Prof. igital Prof. igital Prof. Age) 119 117 us) 112 / ? Vol. 3, No.8 \ What goes around comes around \ . -- ·--· Thursday, March 6, IJ>75_ Union Collef!e Black Student Allial!_ce's .Newspaper·· Editor's ·:prerogative Bookstore Whitewash I'm so glad that , this is the Edit:or's Prerogative. l'm going to ·. rnalte it my pterogative not to tell you my .experiences as editor · as indicated in the last issue. You can read about those in my book rm planning to start next term. (yule.) Now. I'd like to talk abQut some positive things, and after convincing myself not to leave the rest· of the space blank, I figured I'd start at the beginning of the year. For many· Black folks it got off to a ·bad start. At one point so far this year I could have sworn we were pregnant witho riot. Too many times ,we' were standing on the verge of \gettin it on.\ Now, I feel that things are beginning to work themselves out even. Besides, spring term is coming, that's always the most beautiful time for Union. Lot of good weekends plaltlled for the college, and for the. BSA we have the Black weekend with the Blackbirds flyiag in, there is the Women's Dinner, and the play, \Ain't Supposed to Die a Natural Death'~. When winter shakes itself off of Union, the school will be in a whole different perspective: It's as though we need the bad times to 'make the good times look better. What have we get. to lose? What alterna.tive do 'we have but to malce it all Worthwhile? I won't . be here and I know I'll be missing ·a lot, so I'm willing the good time I would have had to the rest of you. Put it in your reserves and when times · get rough, use it and think of me. Although Union often felt like a pair of shoes two sizes too Elijah Muhammad· Dead at 77 Elijah Muhammad, .leader of the Black Muslims, died of congestive heart failure on February 25, in Chicago at the age of 77. · . Elija\h Muhammad was the head of the Nation of Islam for ,abol.lt 41 years. Under his influence, he guided the religious sect into becoming the powerful organization it is today. · He helped bring about. the onset of many Muslim schools across the United States, .restaurants, banks, a11d a publishing company that prir~ts the largest Black circulating newspaper in this country. Contrary to w.hat many people believe, Elijah Muhammad was not the founder of the Nation of Islam, yet he did institute rn.any principles that are law in the M~lim faith. Some ·of them include the belief that the Black man is ~.upreme, and tile white man is the \devil\, and that Islam is the only true religion; These ideas caught the attention of many Blacks, btlt patiicularly . lower-class· Blacks. Miraculous coliversions were viewed as dope ad!licts and pushers, prostitutes, and other criminal types coi'!Verted to the Muslim faith. Wllat correctional institutions failed to accomplish, the Muslim faith did. Today. Blacks on · ·arying socio-economic 'levels ('l)ntinued on Page D small, it had it's good poi:p.ts. My gripe is that its bad poin'ts were in ·most cases hardly reversible. Let me get sentimental for a minute: :I'm gc,mna miss this place with its drab grey buildings, its · <Jogs -that look better than the people, house waterfights, the pige,ons .gfl.\mbling from the \Nipple\, spring term by the flag . pole; going to BSA basketball games and making fun ·of the other team; playing basketball against the brothers and killin' 'em; some dead but still talking professors (And those who really are over the hill, but think they're young jitterbug~) ... and I'll never hear· the Bells again. Well, minute's up. I hope this place makes it. (If it does, please . submit its name to the Guinness lJook of World Records). I'd like to close this nonsense with a wish that Perspective, under Marilyn Becton's . guidance, meet its goals and that the general college loses its desire Perspective Exclusive You may not know this woman by name, but not too many of us haven't ~n her sitting at bet front desk at the Union College Bookstore. Her n&me is Jerry Seaberry, and she has quite a lot to say. Mr:s. Seaberry, mother of two p.re-s~,;hool children told Perspective on Sunday, March 1st,· of her plans to · quit her position as personal secretary to the bookstore manager, Mr. Green. The reasqns surrounding her departure amount to yet another case of Union Gollege discrimination, and though she is quitting, she doesn't want to leave without donating her share of education to the people here. It all started at some indefinite point in the three· year time Mrs. Seaberry worked for Union College. Sman things such as Mr. Green and his assistant manager going away on business trips without bothering to let her know so she could act accordingly in their absence; Mr. Green going on campus errands and not telling his secretary which meant she'd have to walk aU over the bookstore to look for him only to find that everyone else knew where be was but her. Other \minor\ things like the exaggeration of Mrs. Seaberry's mistakes compared with the understanding he would have for other employees mistakes; the fact that one full time cashier, Mr. Green and an assistant manager have keys to the bookstore, but Jerry wasn't allowed one. The double standards in general the bookstore management uses when reviewing Jerry's work at the cash register or at her desk. •'These things that happen are neither • wide open, nor closed mouthed.\ After they happen tliey seem minor but while its going on she can definitely feel the downgrading. to mess with Black folks minds. Internally; I hope the BSA will · keep on pushing and that it never l lets this college succeed in its apparent attempts to Jerry sensed her co-workers were trying to manipulate her so that she would want to ·quit and she vowed not to ,give up so easily. Even when it came to jeopardizing her health which meant sitting at that desk in the wintertime with the side entrance open ·constantly. When she would complain, Mr. Green would say that that's the way it had to be. When Jerry got sick from the draft, and someone else was using her desk in her absence and complained of the cold, the door was closed. Setmts petty? .. Bourgeosie-fy\ the Black students here. I hope our unity on campus stops resulting just because we're defending ourselves from racism and bigotry, but, rather because we're doing our own thing, building ourselves up, being a strong proud people, regardless. Most . of all, 1 hope everyone here gets as mucti out of Union College as it gets out of them. because you won't feel right in life. unless you do. Mrs. Jerry seaberry. speaking out against Union College discrimination. \It's as though they were doing -these things to aggravate me, hoping I would tire of it and quit.\ Mrs. Seaberry had an operation which kept her out for 9 weeks. When she came back Mr. Green told her that she'd be filling in at the cash register because of a cashiet•s illness. However when the absent cashier returned, Jerry wasn't to go back' to her desk, but was instructed further: about . ~shier duties. When Jerry questioned this, she said something to this effect, ••oh, didn't Mr. Green tell you? Your job has been dissolved. You'll be working at the register until we can find something else for you to do on campus.\ Not being hired as a cashier. this . information sent Jerry to ask Mr. Ass't Deans ·Hill ·and King Revisited Green why he didn't have the decency to tell her himself. He . communications with the ,two told her that h~ didn't think she'd ex.amine the political direction m deans, the middle man of rumors Since the -issue of February 19, 1975 that contained interviews With Jay King and Carlos Hill, the B.S.A. felt that a group interview- was necessary so that more issues could be aired, revealed and explained. I think that move was· an excellent one for Black folk on campus because it reopened much needed lines of communication with the administration, and put things into a better perspective for the coming year. Carlos Hill Many students felt as if they did not know Carlos arid that it was high time th!!Y did, being that· he will be here again next year with a new co-director of A.O.C.. The general consensus was that for too long he had been overshadowed by Jay King, and it was his true character which the B.S.A. wanted to see. Also unclear was the man's politics. ln the meeting with the RS.A however, aU this Was aired, suggestions tossed aroup.d and a few positive things emerged, of which one was the formation of a seven man committee Which will which the B.S.A. is headed. wanted to be confronted with will hopefully be elimin~ted. Also that problem on her first day as a result of the meetm~s I feel back. He'd even had time to tell that there has been somewhat a. her that very morning but she Jay King distincti_on ~ade betw~en had to be told by som~one else. A few day~ later, Jay King was per~onahty co~fltcts and prac~l~al At this point, Mrs. Seaberry invited out for a rnini \race the busm~ss c?~ll!cts. The positive went to Mr. Magill, who hears Nation\. Problems coming from workings of the Bl~ck folk ?n employees complaints on his office and with individual . campus must conti~ue despite campus. Magill sent her to Mr. students were discussed. Having these problems. This . reporter Usher who is the business· explained himself, Jay left himself hopes the. two deans Will_ pro~e ~anager. Jerry clearly s£ated,_ to open for constructive criticism worthy of Black trust 10 t e him that she felt she was bemg and suggestions and fu:rlther future, questions about his conduct were answered. Jay feels he can do a ( ontinued on Pa~e B lot in this position for A.O.C. and Black students on campus, and has invited students to ta·ke .advantage of his offered aid. What Now? Personally, I felt better after·. having sat through the two meetings. There is a natural underfeeling of wariness which still prevails, but time will have to either dismiss the feeling or stren~then it. Now that individua,ls are opening personal .. BSA Support The B.S.A., through the editors of PERSPECTIVE, would like to mnounce that its members have voted unanimously to . support Jay, Carlos and the Ad-Hoc Committee on Racism in their efforts to a) have the president appoint a commission on race relafions including~at least 5 .members ..of the B.S.A. an~ b) implement procedures sueh ·that the number of discriminatory aets and the number of raee related mistreatments can be controlled. · The B.S.A. is very interested in the results of the commissions efforts and in evaluating the effectiveness of this commission as it attempts to limit the damages resulting from racist . practises on this campus.

. PageB PERSPECTIVE Thursday, March 6,. 1975 .......... _._ ......... ~ ..... ·-··· .,.~ a av I WHO WEARE =· 1 Editor - Isidra Person I . !I Editor's Assistant .- The House I : RE: ACTIONS i Poetess in Residence - Utamu ! • • 1. 1 Photography Editor - ~ill Collins 1 ·• Typists ..... Ron Westbr~o~ C?livette Si!Rmons I ·1 Sports-Editor- Marilyn Becton I Smith vs. mtelligent people will respect you for it ancl there would also be a beginning to the solution of the problem. I know that I am willing to admit that I make a mistake now and then (the brothers and sisters who write for Perspectives do too: it's human) and -1 can be approached by anyone if I have overlooked alternatives that would produce more favorable results. I am not writing if! det:ense of anyone, but rather in favor of t:hose Black Students (and Black people as a whole) who have justified griev.a!lces about things but den't give their own opir1ions the consideration that they deserve. lf we are going io do it, let's do it right. .. U mon than to sit around and fabricate racism stories. _Hell. if it \were. up to me, I'd, never thinl< twice about it, but that's jJot possible, because even wheii 1 try to forget how much l atn not wanted here I can't because the stuff is so thick, Dave, it Won't let me. Can you understand that'! What's more. can you sympathise?· !)o you have an ~nswer'? I sure don't bu_t in my opinion the paper is the way to put out a feeler for some answers. ! General Writers ·- Sharon Brown, Thomas. Watts, i I Special Thanks - Sadama Horns, Brian Smart, I I WiiJiam Walker, Donnell Underwood, Debbie Billings, 1 I · John Arcentales, Jay King, and Mrs._§eaberry 1 L.;. ••••••••••••••••••• ~~.; ••• ~ ••••••••••••••••••••••• l White Wash Sharp· I o The Editor: Yk-Noh Laid Off ln the past few weeks, I have listened to the worqs of-'two gentlemen. One a Dean of students, the other a lame duck director of Upward Bound. Both men spoke of the rece.nt dismissaj ( ·ontinued from Page A of Anthony Sharp. If you had read the articles in Perspective, treated unfairly, but the man you would think that there were thought she was being too harsh two Anthony Sharps. But there is in her judgements. Mr. Green· only one and therefore only one was merely being \thoughtless.\ . story What is reality'! lsidra Person Due to lack of pertinent subject matter. Ana Logy bas taken an issue's vacation. However. the Perspective staff doubts that Ms. Logy's absence will be perpetuated for any great . length of time. Still not coming to an agreement, Dean Smith stated that . Mr. they talked about a transferral to Sharp wasfireddue to problems in another office. However, by this fiscal accounting. Mr. Sharp says Yours in the Struggle DonneD E. Underwood Not a Joke The Editors RACISM: A DEFINITION Racism is an incurable disease with some folks. It gets into their systems and when they try to flush it out with such home remedies as tokenism and \liberalism\ and a pinch of rationalizations. it just drops from the heart into the soul and subtle racism occurs. It had bad effects on the racist because not really bothering to dig :in deep and,. like alcoholism, admit his problem, he worries constantly why all these minority people are picking at him when he didn't do anything. And the effects racism has on the ••race-ees\ is obvious, but when they blindly behold an apparently cured subtle racist. they have problems also trying to figure out the diseased victims' inconsistencies. Results: Acute case of frustration. Raisin! time Jerry felt this would be it was due to a personality useless since Union's staff is like· conflict. Where is the truth? a little family and what goes on· Let's break it down. Dean in one office is generally known Smith wants his lJ pward Bound in every office. \It would be just Director to be _a whiz with the like working in the Bookstore calculator and pen. But he should Genuine Hate again\ said Mrs. Seaberry. also be a motivator and counselor There is more, a whole lot of high school students. That Editor Perspective, more to Jerry~s story, more entails being a psychologist, Perspective came out in last incidents that added that straw. philosopher, and teacher. Is there week's Concordy like it does any which was trying to break the really such a thing as superman? other issue, so I probably camel's back. Because Mr. Despite these questions. 1 can shouldn't be surprised at last Timberlake would not allow Mr. now say that 1 u.nderstand. Does week's issue. But l've got to say Green to fire her (insufficient it shock you? It shocked me. Does something sometime. _ . grounds), ier:ry would have had it worry you? It strengthened me. Every time I read Pers~i:tive I to put up with the worrisom~ For 1 can now say much more see real. genuine hate. I dmtt see attitudes of her co-workers until than before that 1 do understand. communication that could she was forced to quit for reasons 1 understand the meaning behind possibly help race relations (if of sanity. Luckily, she got a the phrase. \What goes around that is one of the concerns of your better job offer elsewhere. comes around.\ pjiper). I do~'t see a true i~terest \The next Black person that . Brian J. Smart in what's going on at Umon, I comes here will have the same rarely see anything positive. 1 see problem,\ Mrs. Seaberry said hate. It d0esn't seem to be Union after pondering the fact that with writing through the eyes of the black the exception of Mrs. Walker in . . student as much as \Let's see how the library, and Professors many things go on here thai can , Daniels and Styles, no Black lncog.n· 1 ·t· O be interpreted as racism\. Ate staff member has - sustained a things really that bad? P osition here for more than a few I wiU never understand the Dear Ispy, k s· 1 k t d t Year ·s and wt'tht'n t·he last year 'k · d t theory that rna es a · ac s u en 1 would h e .10 respon o a hi fiour have been forced to leave. 1 . · prefer to attack injustice in . s practice on the part o wrtters . r· h · \There .,·s no future for Black · · 1 own paper. Isn't that hke 1g tlng who s.ign the1r art1c es 11 People at U .nt·on College if this .. .. U · · City Hall by telling a . your ··Anonymous , · ·mon tn keeps Up. \ And ~··t•s hard to .. get .. T d M. k\ t 1 friends what a martyr you are? Retrospect . \ ra e ar , e c. justice, Mrs. Seaberry, smce think that kind ol indulgence only It's bottled up. It's negative. It's Union is SIJlart enough to encourages. mud-slinging, name- unhealthy. It just generates more Comml .t lega·l dt'scn··mi·nati\oll but · · h 1 tt t resentment for aU concerned. calling. etc., w1t no-rea a emp Wl .ll not go over the line of illegal · 11 . ·(\Hate begets hate.\) to remedy the situatiOn. you · dl .scn'm'natt'on· 1 . d 1 would be the last to suggest have an opinion, be prou Bec ·a· use she quit, obviously, that white students or enough of it to give your name; · 11 p · Mrs. Seaberry does not want her •-------------~~ administrators te erspectlve position .back. But, she felt how to run its publicati0n, but it's compelled to tell Perspective her c t I t• r upsetting to me to read about story because too many of us are. . ongra U a IOnS . hate every- other week when I'm forced quietly out of this place,~ not seeing it er hearing it on and quietly we leave. And isn~ it campus. Am I that deaf and strange that Union always has an Perspective would like to blind? am wntmg i:n response to Dav.e Mendelsohn's letter concerning Black hate on tbis campus for I too have something , to say. FirSt of all, your comments concerning the Black hate reflected through Perspective seem.., typical of many white attitudes. The white response to Perspective seems just as. if not more. negative than the ~cont~nt of Perspective!. Whites react w1th either disdain toWards Black's vocalizing their gripes or else treat Perspective as a joke. Mr. Mendelsohn assumes that instead of Black's offering solutions to the .racial problems on campus~ all they have to offer is hate· .. Yo~ interpfetation of Perspective Js grossly' incorrect for you confuse hate with ·frustration: Instead of laughing at or. d.ownmouthing Perspective why don't you try to understand the feelings of lhose behind Perspective? After all, behind Perspective and the B.S.A. are believe it or not, people. Of co~rse -it is d-ifficult fot a white majority, especially· one as seemingly 'closemioded and apathetic as those at U Ilion, to understand .what it is like to be one of these fifty 'Black people in a school of two thousand whites. But why not try instead of laugh or ignore? Why should: it be up to Perspective to offer solutions to the communication gap between Blacks and whites'? Before you break down that gap you have to be able to understand each side's views and that, in my view, is what Perspective is trying to do, to expose the plight and injustices On March 8, 1975, the BSA !1as made plans to go see the Broadway Black musical hit, \Raisin\. We all can recall Lorraine Hansberry's \Raisin in the Sun\ a play depicting another facet of Black life and 6lack love through hard times. Well. now the same story is back in a wild- exhilarating musical. Though no big name actors are in the cast, the play is a success and is bound to make some stars out of the present cast. \airtight\ alibi? That.rnany Black congratulate Fred Pressley. Tom people just can't be Watts, and Sonia· Pearson. for \coincidentally\ unsatisfying or their acceptances to graduate dissatisfied with Union. school. It is the wish of the. staff Something is wrong here but one that these. three and the rest of · of being Black on this campus. Sincerely yours, But do you really listen? No, Dave Mendelsohn '77 because Perspective does not have The chartered bus will leave Hickok House at 9:00a.m. Sharp, this Saturday. March 8, but we would like to have a general meeting of the \congregation\ at 8:30 a.m. We will reach N.Y.C. with plenty of time to spare for lunch, which by the way please · come prepared to pay for that and dinner too. because we aren't leaving the City until 7:00 p.m. We had 1o take the first thirty who signed up and are sorry that all can't come. If you find your name on the following list, yet cannot make the trip, please let us know, as there are others who would like t·o go: Gloria Jones, Bill Collins, John Arcentales •. Edgar Duhart, Robert M., Robert W., Horace Thompson, Aseba, lspy, Ron Westbrook, Sharon Brown. Roger MacDonald, Leonard Lee. Amanda Fuller, Jeff Richardson, Gail Chatman, Marilyn Becton, Larry Cooke, Brian Smah. John Toomer, Sonia Pearson, Phyliss. Cathy Smith, Sheila Iverson, Madlyn King, Anthony Merril, Sadama, Olivette Simmons and Jim Mapps. Please be prompt. day it will out. P~rspective our Black---graduating seniors be sympathizes with Mrs. Seaberry, successful in all, the good they and applauds her for speaking attempt to do ... for themselves out. and for their people. Expressions in Black On Sunday, March 9, 1975, S.I.S. (Sonia. lspy and Sharon) are going to give a benefit:\Hasta Ia Vista, Union . . .. Hoi a, Bogota··, ~Expressions in Black': This benefit will be held on Campus at Nott Memorial (that round dome) for one show only, beginning at 8:00 p .. m. This show will feature a sneak preview of scenes from the Melvin Van Peebles Broadway hit, ''Ain't Supposed to Die A Natural Death\ to be directed by Greg Freelon, the game brother who directed the BSA productions, \Day of Absence\ and \No Place to be Somebody\. We will alsa have some fine African Dancing which should put us all in a good mood with the vibrations and drumming. We'll have Craig Jackson. Nancy Altemus and Ensemble, singing Spirituals and Rock and Roll. Remember the Street Theater from last year's Cabaret'? They'JI be back doing their thing again. The M:C. will be Eddie ''Love\ Adams. Admission donation will be only a dollar, the proceeds of which will go to Sonia Pearson, lsidra Person and Sharon Brown, all of whom are going to Bogota, Columbia next term and who are not in favor of being broke in a foreign country. Your presence and support will be greatly appreciated. (And afterwards too at the Cabaret Room where we are going to get together and talk together and boogie 'together, etc ... ). ATTENTION We hope to have Bijiundi African Dance and Drum Troupe from Albany State as one of the main attractions to the Benefit. Also the Jazz Workshop may play for the after- gathering at Cabaret. Be There!!! Respo~se to Dave Maybe this isn't fair, answering your letter in th~ same paper you . get to air your grievances. but I have to~ rm going away. Dave. there is a possibility that you are that blind and that. d_e~f. There's a strong posstbll1ty. because how can you see what's ·happening on your end'! You have nothing to see( you might hear the negative attitude of your friends towards Black folk) but in order to witness first hand s.ome of the complaints Black folks have; you've got to be aroun.d Black folks. Simple as that. Mmd you, that's ·only if\you want to witness the stuff. lf you don't, fine, but please don't think that because you don\t see it, it's not there. Hell, I've never seen you, but I \know you're there Why? Because you wrote something . . . . y_our feelings. which 1 have to constder even though I've never seen you! So. you too must weigh and consider the feelings of these Black folk that you never see and you must realize that there is too much other work to be done at what you want to see. You want· to see communication that can help race relations but do you offer any to the Blacks? Yon want to see the Black's show a true interest in Union but does Union re_aHy have a true interest in the Black's other than just an interest in fiJling government quotas? Not really. But if the Blacks do~'t show you positive attitudes m Perspective or elsewhere you interpret their attitudes as ha~efu~. 1. maintain that what Perspective 1s trying to portray are Black views on campus, ·and that's not hate ·because after experiencing the discriminations of being part of such a small Black minority on this white campus, how could anyone still have the eQergy to hate? It's like trying to lift a heavy boulder, y~u can't hate _the boulder for not moving, you JUst feel frustration in your efforts. So. instead of putting down, ignoring. or treating Perspective as a joke, why don't you show a little compassion and at teast try to understand? Just because you don't see or hear any signs of discrimination and injustice on this campus doesn't necessarily mean you~re deaf or blind; it just means that you're not Black and that you don't care to even try to see things tQtough a Black· Perspective. Oebs Billings

it ot ry ot to s. PERSPECTIVE Thursday. March 6,_1975 Rolling at the Rama . ,., Part l:. Surve~ of A('ro-American History · 1. The African Past For years, many Americans Last Sunday, the B.S.A. Pokeyed and had .a downright sponsored a Roller Skating smooth tirf!e (We~l, some of us outiQg aL the Rollet::una in had it:sroootb,, Jo~n). I wan~ to Rotterdam. Some thirty five thank Tony Mern1, Jay King, strong · ()f us glided and rolled Carlos H~ll, . ~ddie _ Lov~ and and bumped and fell around the Aaron Clmdtn'1n for gettmg us rink in time te the waltzing there, and the rest of you for rnl!sie. We limboed and Hokey- taking it from there. ·- have thought of Africa as the \Dark Continent\ as a jungle inhabited only by sa,vages. Unlike their fell.ow citizens of Mediterranean or Anglo-Saxon background, Afro-Americans have usually been ,taught to be ashamed of the homeland of their ahcest0rs. Recent investigations into the African past have, ,however, dispelled some naive Doin' thf Hokey Pokey with the B.S. A. · mythe and revealed the proud heritage ·of Black history and culture. ~ Jt is becoming incr.easingly certain that human iJife as We know it began in Afric~. The fesearch of prominent archeologists, especially the discoveries of Dr. Leakey at Olduvai Gorge in East Africa, have indicated that the first men lived on the \dark Continent\. For a long time- perhaps half a million years - ' the most advanced people in the world were \Africans\; they were the first to use tools, to paint pictures, and to · dewlop a religion. · Africa was still in the forefront -.· ~;;;;ii;;;;· •~;;;;ii;r;;;ii~;r;;;;:p;;;;;p;;;p:;;.· ;p;:;;;;p;;•;;;qjii;;;;ojp;;ojjop;p;;;-~··;;;-;p;;;ij_;::;.;:oj-;o;;;_w;;; .. -. of the human story when the first ........... :p CIPIIIIIiJii-¥cp'+''+ +'++:;pep Justice· Daily, as more and more Black situation is known all too well people move into the so-called with the rumored attempt to Black middle class, some by relocate the \Black House\ down working two or three jobs and to a tnore central location on some others be' getting \token\ campus and the highly suspicious jobs in large corporations, the goings on concerning the Union trend of thought is that things are C_oHege ' U pw~rd ~ound getting better for Black people in· program, not only mvolvmg the this country. As this trend of dismissal of Antheny Sh&rp, ?ut thought becomes the predominant with the ~ositi?n of ~irector bemg one, we relax more and more in vacated ftve times m only seven our positions ohelative comfort, years! This is not to mentio~ the but others of us who are less discrimination and racism, fortunate continue to cry out for institutional or otherwise, and the justice - or more ,precisely increa$ing link of financi&l aid to freedom, justice; and equality. academic performance rather While a man works for more than than need on college campuses. forty Y,ears of his life buil~ing a With at least 49% ?f ~lack college nation of commyn sense {The ·stud'ents cla1m1ng that Nation of Islam) we sit back and discrimination has been a part of ignore, harshly cri!ici-~e and their college ·experience, these slander the man in his life and his things seem to be the rul.e rather death. It matters not that he has than the exception for Black accomplisl!ed some of the most students on wh~te coll:g_e positive thi,ngs ever for Black campuses .. The Offtce of ClVIl people in the U.S. We watch Rights of the_ Department of through clouds of disbelief and Health, EducatiOn, and Welfare marijuana smoke as police shoot (HEW) Which many Black people down in cold blood two of our praised for its civil rights younger brothers in New York legislation ?as even change.d its .(::ity who had not even reached so-called - hberal stance; m a high school age and we dismiss memo to 2800 collges and these incidents as remote and universities across the country, unrelated only to h~ve a New HEW asserted that coUeges and York State policeman murder universities, not the federaJ another brother less than 20 miles government are to say what away for the alleged theft of a car. constitutes the qualifications for a The cry went out for justice and pa~ticular position without regard the ansWer came back to race, creed or color! What justifia!Jle homicide! It becomes happened to the drive to _incre~se clear to many that we will have to the number of mtnonty build and control our own adtninistnitors? institutions in order to receive The problems of Black students justice. are limited neither to arising from On the college campuses where the actions of administrators \:or much of our hope for a brighter to white college campuses. Wtth future lies, the injustice is just as Blac_kfr.aternitiesan~ s?roritieson widespread though far more the mcrease, the fnct10n between subtle and covert.. At Boston these cliques can be expected to University it was recently increase: ~t Howard lJ nivers.ity announced that no one (including the relatiOns between nattve Bl~ck students) may be admitted African students and U .S.-b<;>rn without a composite score of 1100. Black students . are ~ecommg on the college boards unless that increasingly .stramed __ wtth some person .goes before . a special ~ttltud~s gemg typthed ,by one review board. This\ virtually Af!lenc~n _Black . as~n~ an nullifies the special consideratio'n Afncan if Afncans sttll hve m the' previously given to minority trees! . Is this 1975 or 16 75_? students. The- Africana Studies Wtth the current financull and &nd Resear--b C:enter and COSEP economic situation in the U.S. (Committee on Special forcing thos~ at the lower end of: Educational Projects) under the economtc .scah,: (us) out ol which minority students were jobs, it becomes very important considered for admission are both for us to rely on ourselves to look historic civilization developed along the Nile River. Many people think of ancient Egypt as the Mediterranean state, but we know now that the realm of the Pharohs was very much a part of the African continent. The wealth and glory of Egypt depended heavily on trade and other contacts with lands to the South. There is some controversy about the physical appearance of the ancient Egyptians, but paintings and .contemporary records have convinced many . scholars that they were Black. Several rulers (including the famous Queen N efertity)and most of the soldiers who conquered new· lands were Black. The evidence suggests that the men -and women of the \cradle of civilization'; along the Nile represented a wide ra,nge of physreal types, from almost white to Nubian Black. We have few records about the peoples of Africa during the · centuries following the decline of Egypt. But by the Middle Ages, when western Europe was struggling to re-establish itself after the nomadic invasions, great states and empires had already appeared in West and Central Africa. The first of the powerful West African states was . Ghana, founded in the third or fourth century after Christ. The kings of Ghana extended their influence south into the forest and north into the Sahara Desert througn their control of an extensive trade in salt and gold. In the eleventh century, the ruler of ~hana ·flv.eo in a palace decorated With sculpture and painted windows, and commanded a-n army of two hundred thousand men. Merchants and scholars in North Afri~a recognized the Negro state across the desert as an important trading partner, and they envied Ghana for her rich gold fields. Ghana was followed by an even more powerful state, as large as Europe: the empire of Mali. The rulers of this state were Muslim, and the most famous of them was named Mansa M usa. When M usa made a pilgrimage to Mecca in 1324, he took a caravan of sixty thousand persons and eighty camels laden with 24;000 pounds of gold. The people of Cairo rememben;d his visit many years afterwards. for the African · ·monarch was generous with gifts of gold. As Mali began to aecum:, another kingdom was rising to power. The new state of_Songhay, like its predecessors, was built on trade; its rulers developed their own banking system and legal code so that commerce would flow smoothly. The pride of Songhay, however, was the university city of Timbuktu. Scholars from the Middle East and Europe came to study at this famous intellectual center. One fifteenth-century visitor observed \a great store of doctors, judges, priests, and other learned men,\ and related that the biggest business in Timbuktu was the sale of books and manuscripts. Ghana, Mali, and Songhay were located in the · sav~nnah country of West Africa, between the desert and the forest. To the south and east of them, forest civilizations developed. Cities like Benin and Oyo, in the area of present-day Nigeria, were true urban centers. Social relations were complex and well-defined .. A rich and complicated religious system played an important role in the lives of the people. Skilled craftsmen were organized into specialized guilds, and artists created works wbose beauty is still recognized today. In the surrounding forest, farmers grew food for' the cities. They lived much like people today in some parts of rural Africa. Their houses and clothing, which seem so strange to our modern western eyes, were very functional in the hot and humid climate 9f the forest. Along the eastern coast of Africa, a different type of city had developed. When the Portuguese rounded the Cape ~nd sailed up being phas~d out at . Cornell University. At Union College the • Continued on Page D Hookshot by D. C. fres~man a~~ Jo~n Toomer. PageC the east coast o(Africa at tbe end of the-fifteenth century, they were amazed to find thriving trading cities with two and thr~e story stone houses and bustling market places. The tired Portuguese sailors who _straggled off their ships made a poor showing beside the elegant men and womenof the coast in their fine robes. African aristocrats in cities like Kilwa, Mombassa and Malindi had a rich cultural tradition; they wrote elaborate poetry in Arabic and in their own language of Swahili. Merchants in the port cities had extensive trade connections with the Arabian peninsula, with India, even with distant China. Less is known a·bout the civilizations of the African interior duFing the Middle Ages. When Europeans penetrated Central Africa in the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries they found the massive stone ruins of earlier settlements. The monuments of Great Zimbabwe were so impressive that the Europeans of that racist era could not believe they were the work of Africans. Everyone now concedes, however, that the great stone forts and palaces were constructed by Africans, and that they are the relics of a major state whose people worked gold and copper mines and traded mineral produce with the East African Coast. Not all Africans lived in the great empires of the interior or the prosperous city states of the coast. But this does not mean that they were living in a jungle of barbarism from which they were fortunate to be \rescued\ by the Christian slavetrader. lt is difficult to generalize about a continent as vast and varied as Africa, with its hundr.eds of different languages, cultures, religions, economic systems, and levels of technology. Africans were hunters, farmers, merchants, priests, s~holars, and craftsmen. We can, however, iry to describe - a representative African, an ·average slave-to-be in the seventeenth and eighteenth century. Our \typical\ African was a subsistence farmer, growing \food for himself and his fam,ily on land ( · ontinued on Page D ~~'l;;;l~~ For the Red, Black and Green On Monday night, the Black Student Alliance team racked up another victory as they defeated Sigma Phi by a score of 58-44. Action in the first minutes was somewhat sloppy, due to the fact that the B.S.A. team•had not played in over a week. However. when the backcourt combination of Ron Westbrook and Leonard Lee began to take command of the court, starters Ed Metz, Brian Smart and John Toomer made their presence known. Freshmen ace J. Toomer pumped in a career-high 28 points as he dazzled.at both ends of the court. The offensive play of captain Ron Westbrook was som~:what off during the game;yet his defensive efforts made up for that as he pulled dot.yn 16 rebounds. As playoff time approaches for the intramural basketball teams, opposing teams had better be on the lookout for the S.O.U.L. Team.

PageD PERSPECTIVE Thursday, March 6, 197) justice .. continued from Page C out for ourselves. In the face of monstrous obstacles Black people and college students hi particular must summon the strength to surmount these obstacles and gain all the necessary· knowledge and skills in order that we can do for ourselves and improve our economic conditions. In light of the fact that Black people in this country alone spend $88-l million annually on alcohol and untold millions m;ore on tobacco products, we must also strive to improve our moral and physical conditions also; as Haki Madhubuti (Don L. Lee) says, \Positive movement will be hard, hut necessary.\ In the year of 1975 the question seems not to be, \Which road will we take for justice?\ because it is becoming it1creasingly clear which road we shall have to take (and some have already made this choice), the question now is, \Will We get on the road before it is too late?~ William Walker Elijah Mu~hammad belong to the Mus lim faith. During recent years, there was said to be internal turmoil in the Nation of Islam, whether or not the death of Elijah Muhammad will increase this strain, is not visible at this time. However, regardless of these rumors, the wonderful work that Elijah Muhammad and the Nation of Islam have done for Black people, will eternally shine bright. Marilyn Vannessa Becton To Blossom Plant a seed Watch it grow Like a daisy One by one pluck the petals from the stem (.iive me life Offer me an education Nurture. my intellect Cultivate my mind And strip me of my cutt.ure. Recipe of .the Week Utamu Ham-hocks with Vegetables 3 to 4 lbs. ham-hocks 2 cloves garlic. split I bay leaf g pepper corns 6 large carrots 6 medi urn potatoes 6 small onions l small cabbage. cut in sixths Mustard (optional) Put ham-hocks. garlic. bay leaf, and pepper corns in a large kettle. Cover with water, bl'.)il, reduce heat. cover and simmer 2 hours, or until meat is tender. Add carrots. potatoes. onions, and cabbage and simmer 25 minutes, or until vegetables are tender. (may serve ham-hocks with Mustard) Sadama N. Horns GOSSIP Ann: l saw Faye yesterday! Brenda: Where? Ann: On 5th street. 'Brenda: Where were you going? Ann: I was going to the supermarket...and Faye was going in the direction of the hospital. LATER Brenda: Ann saw Faye today, going to the hospital! Carla: What's the matter? Brenda: l don't know. You know she's been ·kind of tired lately .. It's probably nothing. LATER Carla: Brenda says Faye's in the hospital. Exhaustion or something. Diane: Really. It's her husband. He's enough to drive you crazy. Carla: Ha! Ha! LATER Diaoe: Guess what! Faye1s husband drove her crazy! She's in the mental ward! Ellen: What a shame'! STILL LATER: Arm, Brenda, Carla, . Diane, Ellen (Unison) \Faye. what are you doing' ~ here'! You're sick! Faye: No I'm not! I saw Ann yesterday by the hospital but I wasn't in there. I was on my way ta pick Gary up from school! ALL: OH SHIT! UTAMU Black is .. .fighting with your brother all day long .. ,And knowing that nobody else better lay a hand on him-Unless he wants to go through you too! Utamu The Afrieao Past f'ontinued'from Page C ,h~ld jointly by the people of his ·wife wo;ked han!, but their lives VIllage. H~ had strong family ties, were no more difficult or more not only to his own children and humble than those of most parents, but also to his \extended European peasants at the time. f~miiy\ of grandparents, eousins, They had l:l piece of land and iron meces, and nephews. He helped. to · tools to work it with, and they provide for those who were old could maintain · their family if and. sick, and he knew that his spared the disasters of war and family and neighbors woqld• do disease. When there was time for ..... the same for him if necessary. He leisure, expert story-tellers, knew the history of his people, dancers and musicians could :be even when it was not written reI i ed on to provide down; the elders in his village entertainment. Most important of remembered stories of the past all, our slave-to-be was free. ·He and carefully taught- them to their respected the elders. of his sons and grandsons. His religious community and perhaps obeyed beliefs helped him understand the and paid tribute to a chief or world around him and set forth king: But' he was not th~ slave of rituals and ceremonies that he any man. performed together with other (Main reference: Afro-American members of his community. (lf he His tory (Teacher's Guide) New was a Mw;lim, as many Africans York State Department of Secial were, his religion provided Sciences, F(\bruary 1969-Matilde spiritual and cu:lturalcontact with J. Zimmernian.) . \' - the ·farflung Islamic world.) · Sadama N. Horns Our· typiC'al African and his The International Students Bradilian and general boogie Association of Union College, music. Drinks like Rum and held its first party on February Cola. Screwdrivers and beer. kept 22. 1975, Thanks to the presence the party going along with the' of the Union College Community -dancing spirit. it was a success. · The International Student The purpose of the party was to Association will sponsor several • (a) introduce to the Union events next term. One major College Communi_ty a newly event. will be a band party on .formed organizati.on. and (b) to~· April 12. 1975. Hopefully, this unite some of the lnternatiorraT party will bring more togetherness Students around the Tri~City amon'g·the International Students area. of th.: hi-City area. and among I he party was atypical in that the Union College Community everybody felt free to dance to a interested in intercultural different style ,of music. such as. exchanges. the sounds of musica Latina. soul. John Arcentales Scenes from This Week Ed Metz scoring two more the Red, Black, & Green. Leonard seeks offensive-aid as he brings the ball down court. ·' Edgar Duhart (foreground) and Ron Westbrook working up a sweat during Monday night's victory. Sheila Iverson, Sonia Pearson lace up for action . ' Mad · Sec se, E.S. to·- 1 Econj Sec ~- Engli: 112 Sec. E.S. I · Sec. Sec. E.S. 2 Sec. ~ ! _) Comp. Litera1 Comp. 110-

