Volume 106, No. 1 ·. Wednesd\a'y. Sept. 29, 1976 • ... . Delta Upsilon Expulsion On Friday, June 4, the brothers of Delta Upsilon, the fraternity which was located in the southwest corner of Fox, were informed that they would not be able to reside on campus the following fall. The decision was made by Mark Smith, Dean of Students, pursuant to \an .all,night series of behaviors on the part of members of the DU fraternity that constituted the most unacceptable and irresponsible behavior that I (Dean Smith) have witnessed at Union.\ ihe events, which took place on June 3, involved the yelling of obscenities, anti-semitic behavior, and the physical harassment of some students. Exhibiting w.!!at Smith called, \total disregard for the feelings and rights of students living in the area,\ and displaying \&bsolute indifference to repeated attempts on the part of Security to quiet things down.\ Certain of the fraternity members went beyond the point at which \the college must get outraged.\ Bonner looks Ahead · Smith, stating that·· he has been troubled with the behavior • of some of the D U members in the past, admitted that he could not be sure to what extent his decision was influenced by ... DU's history of misconduct and thoughtlessness.\ He asserts, however, that the act-in-question itself was sufficient grounds for the fraternity's expulsion. Terry By GAIL CHATMAN· Trembath, president of DU, Informing the college challenged Smith on the issue of community of administrative and-.. the night's severity and insists that governmental trends is a difficult although the members involved were wrong, they committed a task. President Bonner, however, less heinous offense than other should be commended for his att-empt!! to expand students who suffered less (or no) communications channels, and punishment. In particular, this interview reflects this Trembath points to two incidents Former ·oef~nse ·Minister Speaks· · commitment. There were five · involving physical violence which . major categories discussed at a QccurredJast year: the beating of brief interview: arts, athletics, a student and fights which education, tenure, and . erupted at an intramural · basketball game. admissions. • ihe June 3 actions are The discussion began with questions about the future of aggravated, says Smith, by the Pitney Interviews Dayan . Liberal Arts at Union, especially fact that in April, when it . appeared before the Conduct the building-up and expansion of· Committee, DU had agreed to the Arts Department. Yes, it is · Moshe Dayan, former Israeli consequence of the war,- he said, Defense Minister, caine to Union was the intensification of Monday night and declared that American involvement in the prospects for peace in the Mideast region. Beeal!se of the , Soviet are now greater than ever before. Union's threat to send its troops Addressing a capacity crowd at into the war, he stated, the United Memorial Chapel, Dayan said States recognized that it had a that although the Arabs still want vital interest in resolving the to remove Israel from Tts occupied Arab-Israeli conflict. He said that territories, they want to obtain the subsequent American ·.peace this objective \by diplomatic an(:! initiatives anC:t economic aid to political means, not by another the Arabs had made negotiations war.\ possible. Without the American He traced the origins of the effort, he said, .. the Arabs would new Arab policy to the Yom not have sat down at the taDle Kippur War of 1973. In that war, with us. We have no means to put he said, the Arab combatants pressure on them.\ sustained devastating lossef., of Dayan prqposed a Geneva men and materieL Moreover, he convention in which Israel, Egypt, added, they failed to gain the Syria and Jordan would negotiate active support of either the ail end to the \state of war'; that Palestinians or the Jordanian currently exists. According to his g?vernment. fie claimed that Jhis plan, the United States and the situation dampened Arab Soviet Union would act as co- enthusiasm for a military solution sponsors of the convention and as to the Mideast problem. guarantors of any agreements that An equally important might be reached. In addition, as r\':'!':'~~3!)~\0'~~u$00;'!01 a symbol of its commitment to peace, each would contribute a limited number of troops to an internationaf'supervisory force, if such a force becomes necessary. Dayan noted that there are presently two obstacles to a loeneva convention. The first, he said, j.s the civil war in Lebanon, whicli has exacerbated tensions · within the Arab world. He said that the second lies in the United States: ''Right now~. you are waitirtg for the coming election, so you do not want to commit yourselves too much. B_ut this will soon be over.'' In response to questions from the audience; he said that the ''·Palestinian Problem\ stems not so much from the dissatisfaction of the Palestinian _people .as from . ...._.;;.;.;.:;.~~~~ ...... ~;l.ili.;;i~-- .the Trr~spoiu{ble ·demands, of .. clean up its image.\ And on June leaders such as Yasir Arafat. true ~llat mohre eAmphasis wilt. be 2, only one day before the event,· put mto t e rts at U ruon .P\es1'dent Bonner had publt'shed These leaders, he maintained, do c u p 'd t B t d ' - · 1 ° ege. rest en onner s ate · an artt'c· le 1'n c· on\or· dy call'1·ng cor not simply desire a nattona th t t h d b · d ... 1 ' a a repor · a · een receive an end to anti-semitism. honieland: they seek the from the faculty in which destruction of Israel.· discussion and plans for the Many fraternity members on · He concluded his remarks by future were put -·~on the table.\ campus feel that the eviction is observing that political power in Raising funds for the task is one unfair .and may be based on anti-· Israel has p-assed from members of the limitations at present, but it fraternity feelings of the Dean. of the \old guard\ such as himself is being worked on; a well- The decision, however, says and Golda Meit to a newer crop rounded plan is being developed Smith, affects housing and has of leaders. He said that he would during this school year for . no bearing on the fraternity. He help· the new leaders in their expansion. Bonner voiced that he . insists it was made by an search for peace, but that he· personaily suppotts· ··expanding . administrative, not a disciplinary, would not try to dominate them, the department. the first step will . officer under whose realm beeause \the future belongs to the be to empl.oy an Art Historian student housing falls. Expulsion young.\ was not the verdict which the INTERVIEW by JACK PITNEY (and the search has begun), but the position probably won't be Dean says he wanted to pass, but filled until the beginning of next due to the severity of the issue, it year _ sooner if at all possible. represented the resolution he felt The President anticipates the compelled to make. In fact, states Do you perc~ive any recent. entire process will take place o. ver Smith, it was DU that requested shift in the balance .of power in the transgresst'on be dealt wt'th as the Middle Ea~t? · a 5 year period. His beliefs are . · that the facilities should and will a group charge, rather than I think that American power l'ndt'vt'dual actt'ons include a more modern theatre · · would increase if you wanted it The subsequent DU appeal and to. It's only that you're very ·which holds more people than supplementary attempts to alter reluctant to step in. I hope that Nott Memorial, more studio the decision were rejected, leaving American power and influence space, new dance workshops and the eviction intact. Contracts, would increase. classes, a stronger· photography however, are renewed on a yearly Are any of the Arab nati()ns :section, and a more e:!ttensive basis; and guidelines have been acquiring the capacity to build program to emphasize film, established under which a DU nuclear weapons? music, and the general vistlal arts. petition for readmission to I hope not. · \Those are an important part of a campus housing in the fall of '77 Does Israel poS$ess nuclear good education and a well- will be accepted. But more weapons? rounded citrictllum,•• says trouble may still loom ahead, as We don't, but we're quite close Bonner. \This should attract the Conduct Committee, upon to the knowledge· of how to more students.\ · f 1 · \ • . The \Save the No· tt\ pro1ect recetpt 0 comp ete m 1 ormatwn produce it. the policy of the \J • th · 'd t h th Sl .mt'lar·ty came under scrutt·ny. concermng · · e met en • as e Israeli government is not to be the · th 't t 1· · h Bollner ceel·s ·that Ollr first prt'ort'ty au on Y 0 evy tts own c arges first one to introduce · nuclear 1 ' • t th f t 't sho. uld be. fixing the building's agams e ra erm Y· weapons in the Middle East, but Trembath and his fellow not to be too late, too. We have leaking. roof, which will hopefully brothers feel they are the subject all the scientific and technical . be done this year. At present, the of a gross 11 tereotype and, means, so if tbe time comes that . Advisory Board has consulted · \ . . two roofers for bids to start the consequently, an un 1 im JUdgment. we w1U have to do it, we w.ill be DU has taken the blame f9r many able to do it. repairs which shall begin after a actions wliicbTnvolved others and Have recent anti-Israel votes in settlement has been made for the even some with which none of the the UN (st,~c:h as thillt to admit a · best . plan. The Advisory Board fraternity members have been rut ~bser\'er in the General has also requested that the Ccmtln~ed' on Paae 10 Contki_nec'fon ·raae l1 Continued on 'Pase 10

, .. . f ·' 90')[~XJR_lYfENSI$. Wed#esday\ Sep.t. 29~ 197~ ,.-' . - K:ershhe·r OUil/nes -Goals .- . E . o· 1··· B·.' · .. _nteman···.· ec_Jnes., CJlnlngton r • ~ • : ...... ~ ..• - _; . \Co~petitive athletics, whether interc;ollegiate,. intramural, or Provo&t · Willard Enteman is a · recreational, have a special and positive educational role tQ play in fixture at Union College; he deftly By MARJORI'E KOHN , . Bennington campu~ were busy trying te dec\de who to blame. the development of Union men and women,\ pn:pares a college budget that \Athletics are simply great fun,\ , keeps Union smoothly . sailing. The two· preceding statements were both spoken by Prof. Torn Towatds. the end of April, wheels Kershner, acting Athletic Director of Union College, in an interview started to turn that m~ght have with ~oncordiensis. They emphasize Kershner's feelings on,. resulted in Enternan's departUre respectively, the importance and the enjoyability .of athletics. from Union. Many students are Prof. Kershner, who is also presently the chairman of the by now familiar with the Economics . Department, took over Atbletie Director last spring \Bennington Affair.... This small when former AD., R. Bruce Allison, accepted the same post at the venerable liberal arts college in Colorado School of Mines. So1,1rces close to Allison say that he Vennont was conducting a search looked forward to a new chaJlenge after twenty years of dedicated for a new president. the position service her<? in Schenectady. Kershner was asked to fill the position 'became open after Gail Pasker for an unspecified length of time while the college searches for a new was forced to step down. A: A.D. · Search Committee from Kilgus Gains Position Currently, a speci~;tl task force Bennington contacted Provost is putting together a report Enteman to ask if he would be outlining the goals and aims of interested in applying for the the athletic program at Union, office. Ap.proximately twenty-five Kershner asserts that he will other persons besides Enteman remain A.D, until after the task were also contacted by the Search force releases' its report (most Commit·tee. Enteman w·a·s SCHENECTADY, N.Y. I\k 1 · h 1 c 1 AND ' MATT •B'RIEF · There were sorne bright. spots according te the Prqvost, the Entemari requested mounds of student body was ''bright ~nd pertinent data relating ·to articulate\ and a .. unifying force.\ Bennington's financial situation,_ Entem~n suggested fuller student however, the informatian came i'fi participation on college trickles; in many cases it was governance, an idea which sounds unorganized. Some requested strange in the 1970s, but stranger information was never sent to~ still, on:e that had not yet reached Provost Enteman at alL ••out of Bennington. He also suggested control\ was the way he described fuller faculty participation on the the Bennington situation. · college governance committees. Enteman spent June 8th and To offset the students' seriousness 9th on the .Bennington campus the faculty complained of talking to almost. two thirds of its overctowdedn~ss, (Bennington 600 students and a majority of its has on,e of the lowest student- sixty member faculty. The college 1 faculty ratios in the nation). At appeared to be totally dominated any rate, Enteman's suspicions bY the faculty. The about Bennington's woes were Administratien was assigned to m())'e than confirmed by his visit the role of ho1,1sekeeper, \and All operations there seemed to b.e Deborah J. [(,{)gus has been 1 ~ y m t e ate ·~I) because the ait:acted tQ Bennington . by its appointed associate director of co ege cannet begm t.o I_oo~ for a umqueness as a small college with . alumni affairs at Union College. permanent A£?. ~ntd lt. IS sure strong emphasis en the Arts and When the appointment 'takes exactly: :ovl!at it\ ts lookl~.~ f9r ... by t~e challenge' of reversing its . effect next month, she will be the Says ~e.rshner, . You c~n t .pick seemmgly hopeless downward first woman to hold the position. your. leader until you pick your tre!ld financially. ln May the In h!,!r new .post, Kilgus will be goals.\ . Provost met· with the S~arch has accepted this.'' At Union, ·~a completely out of centrol. The healthy tension\ exists .between Provost even questioned faculty and administration that Bennington's chances for survival enables the college to function in (inquiries from high school .a smooth fashion. Enteman only seniors had dropped from thirteen met with Benningt0n's to four thousand.) Enteman was Administration for an. h?~r stili interested in Bennington luncheon at the end of h1s Vlsit. because it is an \important place The_ me,mbe,rs tol·d of notjustanotherinvisiblecollege.\ responsible for directing alumni- Even tho'llgh his p0sition is Committee and was impressed by related programs, developing and only temporary,. Dr: Kershner the straightforwardness by both maintaining relations between does haye twa long·r~nge goals ~e its student and faculty members. students and alumni, and assisting wou~? hk~to see achte~ed. One lS The feeling was mutual and in other activities of the Alumni the . co~tmual expa~~wn of all Ptovost Enteman was invited to Office. She will report to Director programs for women. The oth~r come to the Bennington campus. of Alumni Affairs Harrison G. ts the develop~ent of an a.thletlc . In preparation for the visit, program wtth , maximum . Be~n.mgton s mtsery, a $600;000_ ,~:, ln the middle of June, Enteman deficit_ ~nd a P~l!Y endowment of,_~~met with Bennington~s trustees. 35 mrlhon (Um?n's is 25 mi.llion) He demanded that the i.rustees Instead ~f Iookmg for solutm~s, relinquish pewer in the day to day tne vanous segments o1 the running of the. campus and place Demgen. participation by all components Kilgus, 25: has been director of of the Union camJ:ll!s..'' . housing at Union since 1973. In · that post, she was responsible for E Q lJ A ~.IT y the entire . on-campus housing The new A.D. looks at program for 1325 students. wo~en's ath!etics at Union as She is a 1973 graduate of bus~n~ss whtch ~as . been left Union College, where she· unftmshed. He t.s a staunch majored in psychology. · suppor.ter . of higher, budget Kilgus replaces William G. ~llocat10ns for wome?s sports Kuchta w]lo is currently doing not onl~ ~eca:use ~f Title IX but graduate work in labor relations because It Is nght. . at Michigan State University .. I~ fact, the athletic department · · · 1s m the process of hiring ·two Overseas Studies Competition: to Close The 1977-78 competition for grants for graduate study abroad offered under the . Mutual Educational Exchange Program (Fulbright-Hays) and by foreign governments, universities, and private donors will close shortly. Only a few mote weeks remain in which qualified students may apply for one of the 550 awards which are available to 54 countries. Most of the grants offered provide round-'trip 1 transportati:o!l, tuition and maintenance for one academic year; a few provide international· travel only or a stipend intended as a partial grant-in-aid. Candidates must be U.S. citizens at the time of application, hold a Bachelor's Degtee or its equivalent by the beginning date of the grant, have language ability commensurate witlt the demands of the proposed stUdY projects, and ,good health. Application forms and further information for students currently enrolled in Union College .may be obtained from the campus Full>right Program Adviser Professor Bristol, who is located in Room 214, Social Sciences . Building. The deadline for filing applications on this campus is Oct. 15, 1976. Union Pharmacy. 600 Union St.· Men & Women ~tudent Neetls 374-~05 experienced coaches to add to the . present women's staff. Also, a new swimming program will l>e, added to the total.of seven v~rsity women's programs. As for the intraniur.al programs, ,it cannot be stressed too strongly how much emphasis Kershner puts on the idea of maximum participation by the student body. Jie feels that s:orne athletic activity by each student, from a freshman playing intramural basketball to a senior member of a varsity sport, is essential. Dr. Kershner highly praises the :wo.rlc of Bob Drisc()ll Coordinator of Intramurai programs. While many students see intramurals as merely •ha. ving a good .time•,. Kershner looks at the long,..range rewards of athletic participation, .. We place special emph~sis on sharpening ath:letic skills that can be continued during life-time activities.\ SCHOLARSHIPS EXPANSION In the interview, the A.D. 2lso discussed several subjects wlli~h have been clouded by rutnQrs recently. On the issue of athletic scholarships Kershner . .flatly stated that he was opposed to any kind of financial assistance ·given solely on the basis of athletic ability. He was also quick to point out that Union does not give out assistance of this kind .. Another issue which . has generated considerable controversy is the rapid growth of the varsity hockey team. This l1as been a touchy subject because some parts of the college community are totally in favor.of rapid expansion while others are totally opposed to expansion of any kind. Kershner stated that .it would be unwise for him to guess at the school's decisions in the way of expansion because the task force has not yet released its findings a~d suggestions. Then, and only then, Will it be known exactly where the college plans to aim its athletic programs and goals .. Wills ,Speaks some faith in a strong administration. A strong administration would insulate the trustees from. faculty petulance aml allow the Board to concentrate on raising badly needed funds. The trustees were enthusiastic as was the Search C~mx:nittee and ,on June .21st, Willard F. Enteman was officially of{}~red the Presidency of At Uili·,on Thefollowing is the fir:st of a two-part series on the new/ym established Washington Irving Chair of Modern Literary and Historical Studies and its first occupant, Garry Wills, This portion describes the founding of the Chair and Wills' inaugural lecture. Next week's article is B~nnington, · .Enteman, upon receivin~ the offer, went to Bennin~on to meet with its faculty (affectionately dubbed the ••tt page document\) and said if more than six faculty members disapprove his plan or less than two thirds didn't give him their written approval, he'd refuse the job offer. After he left the faculty meeting, a vote was taken with only two votes ; cast' \ an interview with Professor Wills, political analyst and renowned classicist. The Washington Irving Chair wa.s formally introduced T1.1esday night as Garry Wills presented the . first of ten campus lectures. He addressed a Nott Memorial !ludience;, which included Doris and Roger Stone, who established the professorship . with a $500,000 .gift last year. President Tom Bonner, in his introductory remarks; · praised the establishment of the Chair as a vital. facet of academic excellence. Wills~ inaugural theme involved the \search for America\ and he focused on Washington ·Irving's five-part biography of George Washington. At the outset, Wills asserted that the Washington bioaraphy \was a resounding failure, and not even an interesting failure.\ He cc:minued to say that the five volumes \are about as dull as anything I've ever read, by current standatds, however, they are nonetheless important.\ Wills described the nation's search for identity, continually emphasizing that it is difficult for any part or any entity to f}.nd · its · whole. George Washington, be explained, was ~n . as the single figure who stood at the pinnacle of 18th century life. Wills explained that Washington's figure was imposing to the exteri.t that there was never any q1,1estion as to who would preside over the Constitutional convention and later serve as President. · Washington Irving, according to Wills, was clearly the man destined to help us · understand Washington. Wills described the scene -which he dubbed as the first act of political baby*kissing: in 1783, George Washington put his bj~ssing (and name) on Irving. Irving occupied a significan' position in the European view of negatively in regard to Enteman America. At a time when America assuming the Presidency. The was struggling to assert an next day, four Bennington faculty identity, Irving served to bridge mimbers came to Schenectady to the culture in the face of the speak to Enteman in regards to European tradition. Irving was the 2/3. proposal. One faculty Amer~ca to Europeans, and he member stated, \That's not the wrote about America as an Bennington Wl}y.\ Excuses also American, though largely from inchJded the fact that many Europe. Wills observed that faculty members weren't around Irving saw America for the during the summer. Enteman said curious E-uropeans, while he he'd accept two thirds of forty served as a point of pride fot faculty members; again, \That's Americans addressing Europeans. not the .Bennington way.\ The The biography of Washington Provost indicated tbings would was both a commercial and have to change and he wQuld critical success. Although it was adhere to his . position. \lively and realistic at the time, As of July lst, ll faculty Wills claimed it is .. stilted\ by members Wrote back t,o comtemporary standards. .~nteman's all approving, some of Wills ·exploration of the the letters were \very very biography. concentrated on the touching.\ lnterestirigly enoqgh, era's . concept of heroism. although they weren't asked mote ~scribing Washington as ·~first students administrators wrote to m war and peace,\ Wills Enteman~than faculty. Enteman maintained that the statesman n~tified·. the trustees Qf his \d.e~royed hero is~\ by \~ailing to probable refusal and during the fall. The Irvmg btography week of July 5th, a series of presented the Revolutionary War meetings took place in which the in such detail that three volumes Trustees ·of Bennington attempted ad~ressed the eight yep.r war,, to change Enteman's mind. ~y the while the next two volumes wer(f'. end . of the ~eek, only ftfteen left t~ deal with 60 years. Wills f~culty letters had. been received. exp~med . Irving's difficulty in ~nteman finally r~Jected the of~er, deahng With the later years of I am not dogmatic, but I do stlck Washington •s life. According to to- my ~decision.\ Wills, Irving failed to understand A fmal consequence, Willard what he was seemingly destined to Enteman is s~ill our fun loving understand; but in Wills. rnind he Provost, Bennmgton had to start was better than most of us in that the search for a new President all he grasped something. ' over again and they finally hired Pr~fessor '-_Vilis is currently Joseph Murphy, the former teachmg a semmar on Theories of Prestdent o~ Queens College to Political Elections. In addition he assume the1r PJ'esidency. Thus, is .. scheduled to deliver Tuesday Benni~gton ~as found a successor mght lectures during the fall term to Ga~l T~am Parker (who is a as an integral part · of his story m herself) and Union can professorship. In upcoming yeats ~ave one less committee ~ there the. Chair will be filled for th~ ts no_ need for a Search complete academiC year. Commtttee for a· new Provost. ... T:on. . . . ·I Charle1 Political · If there is to be said' ab \So-Called between Mess last Thursday is th~t panel looked like 1 ca nd id'ate knowledgable Far less cons! of the verbal two princip1 \winner\ is complicated 1: it was in the 1 debates, pre• latter confrc place and the intensive sc scientists, political stra1 we know to process to wa of quick ar about who w Among t established c out ef rese: debates (part in the serit candidate in significantly i voters, far produced in More precisl round Kenn look a lot be who were aln him, albei enthusiasm. voters, Kennl Nixon, partie who knew l than about remembering observers tho Ni;x~n· wa:~ \television 'pc handling Ke1 fact \he was and he didn' all well. Debates'\ inJ In view of 1960, then~ i1 learn from tl the overwhe voters who Sl claim not to in terms of' vote for. · · \l apparently , winner by : those voters is indeed was quarter of tb a ... draw\) these poll c exaggerated. Mr. Carter cause, but b harm h1mse1 the e~tent Kepnedy in allaytd som reservations · support ·him tenuously, ·ht qualified st night. By ~ such events serve to d reinforce 01 voter predis close race, c handful of 1 make up th on the basi: they have s1 pseudo-deba balance. As far a: dialogue on the whole infuriatinglY statistical, doctrinaire. consequence health can were ignore« The format candidate~

CQNCORlDENSJ~, Wed_'!e~day., Sep_t; 29, 1976 ..... _ .~ -\ ;.~ ~ - .•. -.' ~ ·- '. at tile OK Corr.al · The Debates: Anyon-e .a Winner Charles Tidmarch Political Science Dept. · clarifications were preCluded. It is retained, the caliber of the issues- difficult to imagine that 111any analysis should be no better. In viewers were at an edified on the large measure I suspect that the issues. 1 subsequent debates will, 11nlike The following is the product of, a discussioo Howie Lax had with Professor Bill Daniels of the Political Science Department. It Mr. Ford is president purely by accident. He has been accused of being a poor leader, and many people view him as an unaggressive, non-dynamic, and un.qualified interloper. He went out Thursday night to prove his expertise, exhibit his command of the job, and dispel his often depicted image as an illlcompetent Mr. Carter needed to clarify his positions. Since the advent of the campa,ign, he has· c()nstantly been labeled ambiguous and inconsistent. He needs, moreover, to generate the much needed support for his program proposals. If there is anything conclusive to be said' abdut the first of the \So-Called Great .Debates\ between Messrs. Carter and Ford 'last Thursday in Philadelphia, it is th~t p;melist Elizabeth Drew looked like much the strongest candid':ite tough, knowledgable, cool, attractive. Far less consltisive is the outcome of the verbal contest between the two principals. Choosing the \winner\ is a vastly more complicated business in 1976 than it was in the 1960 Kennedy-Nixon debates, precisely beca1,1se the latter confrontations did take place and they wefe the focus· of intensive scrutiny by social scientists, journalists, and political strategists. Simply put, we know too much about the proCel!S to warrant the acceptance of quick and easy judgments about who won and who lost. · Among the more firmly established conclusions growing out of research on the 1960 debates (particularly the first one in the series) is that, while candidate images were altered significantly in the minds of many . voters, far less change was produced in voting intentions. More precisely, after the first round Kennedy turp.ed out to look a lot better to many voters , who were already leaning towards him, albeit without much: enthusiasm. Among undecided voters, Kennedy plail).ly trounced Nixon, particularly among those who· knew less about Kennedy· than about Nixon .. It is worth remembering that most informed observers thought in advance that Ni?(,~>n' wa.~. a .··. C\JJ1Sl.1mmate \television· politidari;\ ·capable· of handling Ke~nedy with ease. ln fact \he was riothirig ·of the kind and he didn't handle Kennedy at all well. Debates'\ influence questioned In view of what we· know about 1960, then~ it is not surprising to leam from the news reports that the overwhelming majority of voters who saw last week's debate claim not to have been influencecJ. in terms o.f whom they expect. to vote for. ·While Mr. Ford is apparently judged to be the winner by a bare majority of' those voters who think that there , is indeed was a winner (perhaps a quarter of the voters think it was a . \draw\), the significance of these poll data should not be exaggerated. 1tl my judgment, Mr. Carter failed to help his cause, but he did not materially harm himself either. Indeed, to the e~tent that Carter - like Kepnedy in 1960 - may have allayed some of the . fears and reservations of those who already support ·him unenthusiastically or tenuously, ·he might be judged a qualified. success on Thursday night. By and large, however, such events as these debates will serve to do little more than reinforce or crystallize existing_ voter predispositions. In a very close race, of course, the relative handful of undecided voters who make up their minds principally on the basis of what they think they have seen and heard in the pseudo-debates ceuld tip the balance. As far as the quality of the dialogue on issues \is concerned, the whole affair was by turns infuriatingly vague, extravagantly statistical, and \schlockishly\ doctrinaire. More issues of consequence (e.g., civil rights, health care, the environment) were ignored than were discussed. The format was such that the candidates· ·follow-ups and Worse, despite the elaborate those in 1960, have some efforts by botll :~ides to maximlz.e cumulative effect in shaping advantages in matters of ltl.ake.up, public impressions of the lighting, physical placement, candidates. Thus, if the election podium height, ano so forth, the bec.om~s. a really close . one ' - evening was simply bad theatre. whtch tt ts really not at thts potnt, Oh, Jerry knew his lines (My~ if on~ considers the sourc~s of the God, did he!) at!.d Jirnrny had candtdates' strength . m the obviouslY mastered his favoFite Electoral Conege ~ the ?ex~ two expression, the serene bemused debates could be determmatwe. smile, but all in a:U ... Hohnes and These shoot-outs can be fun to Yo-Yo\ is a better betf<>r th~ fall watch if one chooses to season, concentrate on the .purely The next two de~ates may \>e technical and, mechanical aspects, somewhat different, insofar as we and disregards the accompanying can expect to see a feisty Carter overblown rhetorre' about what a and a slightly less wooden Ford. great boon they are to democracy. U the format <>f Debate I is Concordiensis p fans t~ present articles relating to various campaign events. This column contains an · assessment by Prof. Charles Tidmarch, of the Political • Science Department;· in . represents a mingling of their impressions and thoughts. - American presidential debates are rare occurrences that only happen under particular circumstances. Both candidates must feel the need for debate and think that they have something to gain from such verbal exchanges. This is the first time since 1960 that those specific variables have come together; hence, the debate~. But Why is it that both men thought they needed this direct contest? What did each of them hO!lf' to gain? There were no surprises or ideological changes. President Ford emphasized tl)e n~ed to curtail federal spending as the best way to fight inflation and the necessity of expanding the private sector to spark the nation's economy and create new jobs. Mr. Carter; however, reiterlj.ted hh commitment to the priority of supplying jobs (even suggesting g()vernment subsidies) and came down on the excessive tax loopholes for the rich. But it was all old news. Ford claimed Carter was vague and evasive and blamed Congress for much of the inflation and problems of the day (citing the 14 overturns of\his 56 vetoes), while Carter attacked the ' addition, we include an exchange between Prof. ' .. . William Daniels, also of the Political Science Department, and Editor Howie Lax. Upcoming columns will . contain observations of campaign events, personalities, and issues. * * * * . Ford record and Republicans for campaigning on issues they later fight against. They scratched the amnesty issue (Vietnam and Nixon's pardon), touched on n11clear energy, and parried statistics. How Union College Gov 't Works By MATT BRIEF In the view that no ne\\ information was given by eithe1 candidate and both needed tc bolster their pers()nal images, Mr. Ford was seen as the victor. He appeared to have full command of the presidency. Having the advantages inherent to of the President.. 100 members. Last year there incumbem,zy behind him, Mr. Read the follo-wing, closely, fot it e~plains the labyrinth that one might call the i::Jni()n College Government System_ A.ctaally, it's not all that complicated and it was re-org~nized 2 yea.rs ago in a fashion that wcntld have made Jimmy Carter proud. Of .course, all major changes were over 400 applications for Ford let everyone know that he is · must be given final approval by these spots. However,· ·severs! the president. He repeatedly made the Board of Trustees, which has spots for freshmen are left open use of the concept of trust and - student power on campus, yet it to be filled this term. They fall C()nfidence in him, establishing mu~t be said they seem to be far into committees such as the ex.cellent rallying cries. Like all from overbearing on campus life. Presidential Advisory Board, and · challengers proposing change, The Student Forum, the All' the Speaker's Board (which Mr. Carter is in a difficult College Senate, and the Board of selects campus lecturers). Watch position. It becomes extremely 1h~ power for :Stlldents sits in the Student Fol'um, wllich has eighteen members: President, Vice-President, Secretacry, 2 Class Represe.nt·iltiv:es tn.Jll the Sophomore, Junior, and Senior classe~, the 4 members of the Tax Committee (which doles out your $25 ~tudent activity fee), the 2 student trustees, I member each from tile Planning and Pri()rities Committee (which prepares the College budget)~ til£ Presidential Advisory Board (4 students who advise Dr. Bonner), and l {rom the Student Life Committee (wJijch works to irqvr<>ve the qu'ID.itY of College life). All these committees consist (){ students, faculty, and administrators. The Student Forum is a place where students may initiate ideas, programs, or legislation that affect th.~ eQ.~ire ~mpu~.-!It .als~>. acts . as . an etntmdsrnan for students, and 111aiatains ultimate jurisdiction over funding and operation of all studeD.t o:lubs and activities. , -Legislation . tllat affects the entire college belongs tn the hands of the All College Senate. Any change in the gradin~ system, academic Clllendar, transcripts, or anything that will affect the various groups in the College (students, faculty, administration) belongs here. There are 10 students: the Presidetlt; Vice- President, 2 student trustees and the class representatives. Fomteen faculty members sit on the Senate, represmti11g tbe 4 faculty d ivisiolis (Humanities-Arts, Social Sciences~ Sciences, Math .and Engineering), There are also · three administrators on the Senate-Dean of Faculty,. Dean of Students, and the Provost, who chairs the Senate in the absence Tr-ustees are 3 .simple bodies to Concordy for application difficult to be very specific on .perceive. Unfortunately, the mo~t procedures. details when you< are planning to complicated maze of the Union '· Finally, ·if you are truly alter the · structure; ·so· the College system is made up by interested in the nitty-gritty Democratic opponent could not committees. 1hey might also be details of student government and possibly be as technical as Mr. seen as the most important. There wish to know more about what's Ford. Consequently, Mr. Ford are 27 standing committees, some going on ~ ask someone such as was more articulate on his all students, some students, your R.A., Mrs. Marra (in the programs, for his programs are faculty and administrators, and Student Activities office), or· fact, not drawing board some all faculty. These members of student government hyp()theses. All of this enabled committees come up with ideas (their meetings are open and Mr. Ford to reduce the issue to a and draw up plans for prpgrams publicized).. If you're truly question of Mr. Carter's promises in areas rangmg from admissions ambitious, go to the Provost's versus the president's to films on campus, .. to office on \'tlle '2hd floor 'of the performance. It is always easier to educatfonal policy, to security. Administratiop Building. and ask defend the old than propose the How does one get on these for a copy of the college new. committee~? Each spring, the government report. It will explain Appearance-wise, Mr. Carter Committee on Committees the nooks and crannies of college was obviously nervous and tense. · (groa.n), chaired liy the Vice:- government. Happy reading! This discomfort affected his early President: selects approxima.tely , . ~· :. , ,, : . respon~s, but he gradually . ••••••••••u•••••~••••••JII••••••.-••••••••••r developed a better sense of ,:. , .. ; . . · composure and, consequ<:{ntly, · · , came. across better as he fielded Term. in ·washington :~~~m~~s~~:~ed~~~dco~~:~~ Term In Wasbingt()n agencies in subsequent years. The ·Political Science Students are expected to devote dep~rtment announced · th¢ir a minimum of three days each Term in Wa~hington program week to this internship for which (PS 179) too late last spring; ·sofi!.e they will be ·given credit for 2 20 slots were · held · dpen. courses· in Political Science. In Application forms can be p!cked addition, a 3rd course will be up in the Political Science office offeretl by an adjunct faculty (SS216) .and must be retumed .\member from the Washington there by Oct. 13. Applications will area. There will be a weekly be judged by a conuilittee discussion or lecture by an invited consisting of Professors Daniels, speaker. Tidmarch and Underwood, Professor William Daniels is Those accepted will be notified faculty advisor for the program by Oct. 22, 1916. Prerequisite for and will accompany the group to the · program is sophomore Washington. He expects that the standing or higher. program will be intellectually ihe program will run frorn Jan. stimulating and will provide 2 to March 1 L This winter,- all students with a rare first-hand students will serve as interns in look at how the national the United States Congress; work government works. assignments will inchide other See Professor Daniels (SS 216) governmental institutions and if you have any question. throughout the evening, readily citing statistical data. Both men ton~,inued on Page 16 ············-······ NYS VOTER REGISTRATION If you have not yet registered to vote in the upcoming presidential election, it is not too late. You will soon find the necessary forms to register and to apply for an absentee ballot in your campus mailbox. Merely fill in the necessary information, sign in the required lines and then address it to your local board of elections. Listings of the local boards will be posted around the mailroom. These forms are only for New York State residents. All non- residents are urged to contact their own local boards.

... foge4 . I CONCORDll3NSJS, Wednesday, Sept. 29, 1976 . . ORIENTA TION--A. Phenomenon Son, come out of there! r. ••• and Another View Where is Carnegie Ha11? Where's my dorm, and what am I doing here?, were just a few of hundreds of questions that the Union College Class of 1980 were asking when they arrived in beautiful . Schenectady ·last September 18th. To help answer .the question of these inquisitive young scholars, O.A.'s, F.A.'s, and R.A.,s were sent out to greet the Freshman. Sounding like some of F.D.R.'s New Deal legislation, these letters stand for, respectively, Orientation Advisor, Faculty Advisor, and Resident Advisor. • The first person they met, the O.A., told them that there were aU kinds of fun things planned. A Square Dance, a Bar-B-Que, and parties were the major activities. In a group of ten or twelve it was thought difficult by the freshman to meet many people. But those that attended the functions and were the least bit friendly found they had no trouble in talking to people and making friends. This was particularly true at the picnic while the hungry hordes stood on line waiting to be fed. The square by ERIC LEVINE dance was successful to -the poipt that one wa'S introduced to his or her partner and the other six persons in the group. As noticed by the spectators, a fun time was had by the participants. The night of the sq!lare dance was also, the night that newly at:rived Freshmen were first introdLiced to the Union College Rathskellar. This helped lighten the spirits of some foot sore dancers. What little apprehension still remained was lost at the floor meetings that were held in each: freshman dorm on campus. Here the sleepy student met his or her R.A. and fellow floor mates. \lf. you have any problems, please bring them to us; that's what we're here for.\ There's not a student on campus that has not heard that plea. However, to the students surprise, the R. As really ·meant what they said. Easing the early neurosis of freshmen seems to be their forte. After being given a tour by one's O.A. and having taken a most severe and demanding survey type test, the Orientation groups met with their Orientation Freshmen have a lot to Jearn. . r .' Faculty Advisor. These meetings were most advantageous to the overzealous freshmen because one could catch up ~n sleep lost due · to parties held the previous night. Three ·of these most dynamic discussions were held during Orientation. The Faculty Advisors could have been more effective if they had talked about faculty-student relations outside the ,classroom rather than espousing on hoW· many hours of studying one could expect at Union. The Resident Advisors seemed to calm down the anxious freshmen and in the coming weeks promised to take a more active part in the student's life. A great deal of credit should be given to the Orientation Advisors, who were given the difficult task of acquainting the students with the College and the community, and succeeded admirably. The main purpose of Orientation was carried out to the fullest. Most people knew their way around and had made friends during these first few days, and for this reason, Orientation· was enjoyable and a success. ' by LISA WINER What WOilld he the b~st way to unite the emotions hovering above the heads of five hundred Union College Freshmen? Ori'entation,, of course. Orientation brought together a tnass ofpeople who were basically unknown to each other in an effort to assimilate foundling freshme~ into the life which college offers. My experience with Orientation was a combination of bizarre confusian, a mass of names and faces, absurdities, and generally good times. Events which seemed apparently, or as I .thought, transparently r.idiculous, became outrageous, natural fun. The square dance is a .prime example of this. Who would have thought l would ever be\do-see-doing\my partner and promenading my corner and ENJOYING lT on my first night of <;ollegiate life? On the other hand, activities which sounded great, were often somewhat tedious. The Girling Center, for ins.tance, was just too long. There are just so many P.eople one can rneet, and so long ~ time one can smile and laugh, All in all, Orientation was a beneficial way to start my career here. lt left me with no alternative but to discard my negative thoughts, my apprehension, and the pure terror l originally felt. By placing you in a small group and . sayiQg \You're a group - get to know each other,\ the Orientation Committee urged us_ to put our best foot forward immediately. There was no room for insecurity, becaqse there was an open space created for each and every freshman somewhere. Orientation led to my basic feeling about Union College. It helped to shape my life here. It initiated the development of true ' friendships as compared to the first friend of convenience. It aided in changing superficial grins to wide, warm smiles. it was the first step irt· making Union College a home to me. I don't- understand why the mail boxes aren't in the dorms.· , · . 'Ute Progr, of . the Year isdt on· . . TV. It's in the . · 'Force ·.ROTC. Look into the Air Force ROTC. And there are 4-year, 3-year; or 2-year programs to choose from. Whichever you select, you'll leave college with a com· mission as an Air Force officer. With opportunities for a position with responsibility ,.;.challenge ... and, of course, financial rewards and security. The courses themselves prepare you for leadership positions ahead. Positions as a member of an aircrew .•. or as a missil.e launch officer ... positions using mathe· matics ..• sciences, .. engineering. Look out for .Yourself. Look into the Air Force ROTC programs on campus. Put it all together in Air Force ROTC. • •'! ','f '' ,' ' • Nino· t By When one t outstanding c Union Coliegt the conside narrows to an The faculty m• foremost outs1 sensitivity to < they drive to < sensitivity in through their Clearly, the Nina R. Le • exhibit at museum, is idea. In the sl which many Prof. Le Clerc familiar fac• attitudes of ci the viewer wit As Belin Fis~ Forum Galler~ asserts, \She refreshing cc many who h mission to be and cool. .. 1r of 'new real Nina Le C repeated re compelling.\ Ms. Le.Cle is the .most m in 1950 in Ne received he1 Coopr;:r Unio M.F.A. from - . 1973. She schohuships Philadelphia (thto1,1gh the ~ Art -·Award), Univ:er$ity Su At Union; has rece Development Ford Founda1 work. Perhap: statement of from her owr who feels con means may \1 note: The princi( work is to visually an u nature of e America in t this concern problt:ms fact who lives in· industrial ar attempt to < which this h the quali~v of by his em Sel John Seba! creative force Spoonful ail< singer~songwr has placed a1 con tempo racy Born , in educated at r of Greenwi• Sebastian beg his diversifie• · harpist, guita musician - Bob Dylan, Anderson. < road to succe just about Even Dozen Mugwumps. Mugwumps, South, pickh from blut Hopkins. And then .. N.Y., the Spoonful ern second phas• Lovin' Spo attention frc sound to a t1 -a mixtur€

CONCORDIENS/S, Wednesday. Sept. '29, 1976 Page5 . *'\\ ' ' . ' . . ' . . ' . . t . . . culture ·, Nina ·teCierc Exhibit Opens at Sch,ty Museum By MARSHALL WISOFF AND MIKE ROTONDI - I When one tries to establish an broader social forces. . If an artist is somehow able to outstanding characteristic. of the Union College Arts Department, , portray aspects of truth it is in the the consideration inevitably hope tllat the information narrows to an unquestioned fact. presented to the viewer will The faculty members are first and become part of his understanding foremost outstanding artists with of the wotld and will in some way sensitivity to our society-. Further affect his relation to the world. h d · · t p· the 8 · eed fior this ''conversion\ of the viewer t ey nve o ex .ress . sensitivity in their teaching and .can only happen if he . btecornes through their chosen medium. convinced emotionally and Clearly, the work of Professor intellectually of the truth of the work of art. - Nina R. Le Clerc, presently on This special truth reflects the exhibit at the Schenectady museum, is illustrative .of this artist's understanding of the n.ature of life and is idea. In the starkly urban setting communicated by manipulating which many Americans inhabit, the elements of his art. Prof. Le Clerc brings forward the - This, in any case, is- the kind af ~am· I'.lt'a·r \aces and• physical . '; 1 ' reaction 1 hope to elicit froin attitudes of city life. They attract t-hose who view my paintings. lt the viewer with their simple truth. 1 f As Bella Fisko, Director . of the bas led me to de:velop a stye o Forum Gallery in New York City, painting - figurative, narrative and realistic - that hopes to asserts, \She is a unique and rna k e immediate 1 y refreshing contrast among so comprehensible the issues and many who have made it their mission to be objective, unfeeling, subject that l deal with. Because my aim is to portray the nature .of and cool. .. In the preponderance of 'new realism,' the work of reality in urban America, I try to Nina Le Clerc seemed, on depict both a specific and highly . d · . realistic urban landscape together repeate_ ,;eview, the most with the emotional and co~peltngCl h If b psychological states that life in t , s .. e ere e.rse was, orn .et tenescape produces. The ~s the m?st urban of all_ settmgs, elements of ·pa'int'ing that I rely on m 1950 m New York C1ty. She 'most in this effort are figurative, received ~er . B.F.A. from color and form. The figures I Cooper Un10n m 1971 and her select' are those whose stance and M.f.A. fr_om Queens Colleg~ in facial expression reveal a 1973. She also received significant emotionalstaterather sch_ohushi~s to study at the th .. an- ~- tran~i~nt- feeiing. Phtladelphta Colleg~ of ~rt Furthermcm, 1 want the figure's (through the S_~h~l~~ttc Magazme clothing, and the houses and Art; - A~ard), and . at the Yale storefronts that surround him, to Umver$1t~ Summer School. . inform the viewer immediately of' At Umon,. Professor Le Clerc his class or group identification. has received Faculty f D 1 t G · t f m the. I hope further that the range o · eve opmen ran s ro 1 d · · · · · F . d F d t' t t\Inue her co ors use m a pamtmg convey a or oun a Ion o con · · · · 1 work. Perhaps the most articulate sense '?f. specific ti~e and P ~ce statement . of her work proceeds and eh~t an emotional reaction f h d th tudent to the colors themselves. The rom er own wor s; · e s . . . . · 11 h & 1 - f d b wh t \art\ quality of a certam du green w o •ee s con use · Y · a h 1 · h · t t take special s een on p ast1c, w en set agamst means may wan o the dead grey of an unlit neon note: . . · · · · T . h · · ·I .b' · 1 · f my s1gn, may speak to the VIewer m e prmctpa · o ~ec 1ve o . · . . · k' k _ 1 · f' nd r cord mformal terms as well as as mg ~or Is o re me a. . ef . h him to realize what those colors VIsually all un~erstandi~g o t e refer to in the material world. natur~ o! e!nstence, m urban One of the . most striking A~enca m the 1970 s. To date, tabl W en on State Street this concern has centered on the . eaus, .oan f orne maJ'or' bl ~ d b h . d' 'd 1 ts expressive o s pro t:!\s ~~c: y t e m lVI ua elements in Ms. Le Clerc's style. who. hves m Eastern urban and Th f ru h hour the . d t . l .. . M . ting'S e sense o s ' In us na areas: y pam . lengthening shadows and the pink attempt to depict the ways m · h h ' h' h' . d' 'd 1' rfi d shade of late afternoon mirror t e w Ic t. Is m ~VI .ua s I e, an look of tired acceptance which the qu~h~v of .his hfe, are shaped mold the facial expressions. In by his environment· and by . ' Sebos.tian Coming To Union John Sebastian, the leader and creative force behind the Lovin' Spoonful and one of the chief singer~songwritets of the late 60's, has placed an indelible mark on contemporary popular music. Born in New York City, educated at N.Y.U. in the streets of Greenwich Village, John Sebastian began the 'first phase of his diversified career - that of · harpist, guitarist, poet and studio musician - in the company of Bob Dylan, Phil Ochs and Eric Anderson. Continuing on his road to success, John played with just about everyone from the Even Dozen Jug Band to the Mugwumps. After departing the Mugwumps, Sebastian _ went South, picking up a new . sound from bluesman Lightnin' Hopkins. And then ... Upon his return to N.Y., the renowned Lovin' Spoonful emerged. Marking the second phase of his career, the Lovin 1 Spoonful turned our attention from the British pop sound to a truly American sound - a mixture of jug band, blues, folk, country, ragtime, village ethnic, and gospel. So upique and popular was their music that the Lovin' Spoortful quickly collected a long string of uninterrupted hits. -John-· sebastian wilt be appearing on Oct. 9 at 8 p.m. in Memorial Chapel. Be there to spend a positively enjoyable evening with him and his friends. Tickets are. available in the Student Activities Office for $2.50. Tickets at the door will cost $3.0(). During the decline of the Lovin' Spoonful group, John expanded his repertoire, writing film and show scores. At that time, John Sebastian emerged as an unforgettable solo artist. Appearing nationally, John mesmerized his audiences and in 1969 produced his first solo album, John B. Sebastian •. John Sebastian Uve and The Four of Us~ both sol.o albums (all the instruments were played exclusively by John), gained Sebastian even mote acclaim, as well as a number of TV appearances. appealing to our empathy with these women forms pose an insight to the qubstion. of whether our patterns . of urban life themselves are receding into tw_i_l!g_ht. Ms. Le Clerc likes to teach photography to college students. \It is the medium of our time,\ she says, \and students can come to terms with their subject matter through it.\ However, _;he views painting as a refined art which, like ballet, involves extensive periods of training. As an urban landscape, a Schenectady landscape, and a product ef a talented artist in residence at the College, Ms .. Le' Clerc's exhibition is an event that· deserves to be savored While it is in our midst. \ ... summer's lease hath all too short a date ... \ Shakespeare, Sonnet XVIII We know that there's much hidden poetic talent at Union waiting for a showcase,. so here it is - Fine Lines. This new section of Concordy will provide a regular opportunity to share your poetry with the rest of the College community. Contributions will be welcomed from everyone students~ faculty, staff and administration. All work will be considered, but double-spaced typewriting would be greatly appreciated. Because it won't be possible to return contributions, keep a carbon for yourself. The author's name and phone number must accompany the poems, hut they may be printed unsigned or under a pseudonym, if requested. From time to time we'll try to include some non-campus poetry and we hope to announce sotne contests. Come out of hiding and \ address your contributions, or any. questions you maY have, to Box 1738, campus. We look forward to hearing from you and seeing your work in print. Two Young Women, Pearl Street, 1976, Oil THE WORLD'S FAVORITE BED-TIME STORY IS FINALLY A BED- TIME STORY ..• AN X·RATED MUSICAL COMEDY STARRING PLAYBOY'S COVER GIRL KRISTINE DE BELL WITH LARRY GELMAN • ALLAN NOVAK • TERI HALL AND JASON WILLIAMS, STAR OF \FLESH GORDON\ DIRECTOR OF PHOTOGRAPHY JOSEPH BARDO LYRICS AND MUSIC BY BUCKY SEARLES ARRANGED AND CONDUCTED BY JACK STEARN & PETER MATZ ASSOCIATE PRODUCER JASON WILLIAMS PRODUCED BY WILLIAM OSCO • DIRECTED BY BUD TOWNSEND A GENERAL NATIONAL FILMS RELEASE 1!19 Fox Colonie l & 2 CALL THEATRE FOR TlMKS Wolf Rd. Opp. Macy's 459-1020 -

. ·- CONCORIDENSIS. Wednesday, Sept. '.29~ i976 . ARTS AT.UNION•REPORT September 20, 1976 To: Campus Comfi\!.unity From: Willard F. Enteman, Provost As I am ·sure many of you remember. last May 20 and 21, we were visited by a committee of eminent Art Educators to give us an outside professional view of how we should proceed with the Arts at Union. l am attaching, for your information, a copy of the reports presented. The reports propose a serious and strenuous challenge to Union for its Arts eduction. I am enthusiastic about its recommendations and the di~ction it sees as possible and appropriate for Union. I do want to emphasize what I said to the visitors which is that we accept this report in the spirit in which it is given: as a series of suggestions as to what might be done in the Arts. Suggestions are neither commitments nor decisions; those can come only through the appropirate decision making processes at Union. Willard Enteman THE ARTS AT UNION COLLEGE REPORT OF THE VISITING COMMITTEE ON THE ARTS HAROLD TAYLOR, CHAIRMAN We were'\ asked to come to Union College to review the work in the artll there, and to do whatever we. could to help the College decide what to do about an arts program for the future. After reading the material sent to us, visiting the College for two days and discussing the present arts programs with the students, faculty and administration, we decided that the Chairman of the visiting committee would write a general account of the conclusions w,e had reached together. What follows is the general account. It represents a full measure of agreement among us. THE PRESENT STATE OF THE ARTS AT UNION As we see it, Union College has reached a stage in its development at which the· over-all strength of the curriculum and educational program is well secured, as are relations with the graduate schools, business, government and industrial employers, the alumni, the community, the high schools from which its students come, and the other colleges and universities in the region. Our impression is of a well-ordered, sound and responsible liberal arts college which does what it does very well and has its own ethos. created by a faculty,- student body, administration and alumni body who care about the college and what happens to it in the future. including the arts in equal terms as basic elements in the curriculum of a liberal education. . Although it may be that our sample · l)f faculty members and students was drawn eptirely from those favorably disposed toward the arts and we therefore did not meet the hostile ones, it is our feeling that the neglect is more benign, even though equally regrettable. It seemed to us that because of its institutional history, the College has simply. taken an overly long time (a time lag of ten to fifteen years), t() catch up to the question of what to do about the arts, and in the meantime bas been more ;:oncemed. to build on existing strengths than to create new designs for curricular change. Added to this is the fact that in a democratically organized administrative structure, college policies about the curriculum · evolve from the views, opinions . and educational preconceptions of those already in the faculty and student body. A preponderance in numbers of faculty members in a ·given area will therefore exe!!., a special empliasis on the concerns of that area, in relation to the total program of the College, and there is bound to be a certain reluctance to change a winning game. This is especially true at a time of fmancial stringency when the prospect of allocating funds for appointments or expansion in one area may be seen as a threat to the stability and/or growth of the others. As we shall point out later in this report, there are alternatives to this way of thinking and courses of action which · can overcome such ' r.oncerns. In any case, we· did not find op- position or hostility to the idea of advancing the arts at Union, quite;: the contrary, with initiatives coming from all sides, particularly from the faculty and students already working in the arts. We found administrative officers ready and willing to make an institutional commitment to the expansion and development of the Union arts program once a workable and intelligent plan could be devised. Willard Enteman's letter of invitation to our visiting committee did not ask us to advise the College on whether we thought an arts program should be developed but to give the College our \considered judgment as to how' we might proceed.\ President Bonner emphasized his own readiness to support the expansion of the arts program as an educational need which had not yet been fulfilled. The members of the Educational Policy Committee, the Committee on Faculty Planning and Priorities, the Presidential Advisory Boatd and the Student Life Committee with whom we met for a two-hour discussion raised interesting questions about the 'best way to combine courses about art with the practice of the arts t:hemselves and other practical matters-. But the assqmption on ·which the discussion rested was that the College was grappling ·with the question of how to enhance the work in the arts as an integral part of the Union curriculum, not with whether or not that work should be done. For reasons connected with its origin and history, the most fully developed teaching and research strength of the College lies in the sciences and technology, where 55 per cent of aU the courses of study are offered. The least developed is in the arts, with 5 per cent of the courses and skimpy, imp:rovised housing in which to teach them. We ca-me across a general feeling in the college comrtninity that the neglect of the live arts at Union is due to the fact that too many faculty members and students think of them as peripheral, even frivolous, in relation to the academic purposes of the College, and fail to recognize' the necessity of What impressed us most was the enthusiasm, good sense, wit, imagination and ·creative energy of the students who have already been working in the arts, most of them students from other fields for Whom the arts represented a liberating and life-enhancing experience in liberal education. 'this is first of all a tribute to the quality of the faculty members , with Whom the students have worked and the influence of the something tiew in the company of the faculty material already made teachers responsible for running others. available to us from College the present arts programs. But 3. The College has the benefit sources. To put it in its most beyond that, it is a tribute to the of the services of eight faculty concise form, we simply assert cultural climate of the. College as members who are themselves that the live arts are an integral a whole. It is a climate in which practicing artists and are at the part of the curriculum of liberal the students have been given same time seriously committed to education, that, acting on this running room t~ do things on the teaching program and to the assumption, the colleges and their own, in which students feel a educational and aesthetic welfare universitie$ of the United ·States sepse of responsibility for the of their students. ln their relations have in a large measure tak~n ·welfare of the College and art:: with the students .it seemed to us responsibility for actjng as cen.ters willing to go to considerable that the arts faculty had for the ex.p,ansion and lengths to ensure it. developed an informal development of the arts on a Ratl1er than resting content atmosphere of mutual respect and national scale, and that the future with complaints about the a respect for the discipline of the of American education' i~ inadequate facilities and the arts they practiced, as well as an indissolubly linked with the future shortages of teachers and funds, open chance for students to take of the arts and the development the students have turned to, and their own initiatives under of a rich and varied national with the leadership of the arts sympathetic guidance. culture. faculty, have worked with their Since the nqmber of students As far as Union College is teachers to create spaces for the involved in the arts courses is concemed, it is our view that the arts and programs of their own. necessarily limited, there . is time. for new development is With approximately one opportunity for a more personal e~actly rigbt, both in terms of the thotrsand students in arts courses,' style of instruction than would present state of the arts at t;Jnion the two Glee Clubs, t:he orchestra, otherwise be the case., with a and the external circumstances .in the Mountebanks, the Cabaret, consequent increase in the degree American society as . a ·whole. the Film Workshop among other of involvement of students and Students in every part of the extracurricular activities, there is teachers with each other in the country are searching for .already a flow of activity in the work ~hey do together.. This of opportunities to engage .in the arts arts unimpeded by the . physical course has a limiting effect on the in their college~ and high schools. and curricular obstacles. range of offerings available to the The largest increase in colltlge The existence of the students and the rartgeofstylesin enrollm<;nts across the countryis Mountebanks, with a tradition of teaching and in creative work for in arts courses. More than a student-produced plays, inusic which the faculty members can thousand-citizens' arts councils of theatre and the use of original act as models. But that is an()ther various _kinds ha~e grown up in material, has spread the theatre question, t<> be dealt with in the all fifty states. During the past ten arts throughout the campus artd College's long-range planning. years, political support of arts brought students from everywhere We might simply add in passing fu n.d in g' by the states, in the College into an experience that the scarcity of teaching time municipalities and the !'lational with acting, directing, performing, and the comparatively few faculty government has increased by designing and creating. We were members for the amount of work leaps and bounds. A report impressed with the aplomb of one being done means that the published by the National young man, wl!ose major is not in students have, through necessity, Research Center of the Arts the arts, who announced at our a greater opportunity to teach: indicates that in 1975, '93 per cent meeting with the theatre students themselves and each other than of Americans in a national survey that he wa.s collecting a team of would be the case in a more fully felt that the arts are irnp.ortant to actors, musicians and a designer organized program. This situation the quality of life in the for a theatre piece ;he would has enormous merit, if for the com~~ni!Y· 9~, l.'er cent. b.elieve produce next fall on a' budget of wrong reasons. In many programs that It ts tmportant for chtldren of $450, unless of course he could students are over-taught while school age to be exposed tn increase the budget by means under-learning, and in whatever is theatre, dance, music, exhibitions which he was not ready to done to ex:pand the Union arts of painting and sculpture and disclose. program, it is crucially importa,nt similar cultural events, and- an The initiatives are also to be h average of approximately 80 per \\ d h b f h to preserve t. e present emphasis ceant beli\eve .that·c\.edt\t c-ourses t'n 10Un among t e mem ers 0 t e on student initiatives and •·' Student Senate who have responsibility. As one student put music, creative writing, drawing, consistently allocated funds froll'} it, \If we have the interest there painting and sculpture should be the student budget (one-third of are plenty of opportunities, and offered in the public schools, 57 the total) to encourage the arts in we do not have to stand in line to per cent support the idea of credit specific projects where modest be screened for admission to be courses in ballet and modern grapts have produced unusual an actor, a director, a composer. dance. results. The invention of the We can start in right now with In wher words, an investment Cabaret is a good case in point. whatever we've got.\ of time, energy and money in the Through it, and through their We also note that the favorable arts at Union at this point would own spontaneous efforts, the environment exists without the justify itself as · a major students and faculty have given aid of deliberate recruitment of enhancement of the future of the the College a center for cultural students to become majors in the College within the national affairs, an outlet for creative arts. It is a home~grown society and its system of talent and a unifying influence environment in which the education. within the college community. We recruitment is internal and There is a central educational found evidence at every hand that spontaneous. Students who come point we wish to make before the College, without having to the arts from other fields often moving on to the description of explicitly planned it that way, has transfer their. studies to that area an over-all design which might be aIr e ad y d eve I oped a n as a natural consequence of the useful to a Union College future environment favorable to the development of new interests. The in th~ arts. The members of your growth of the arts and a corps of students who organized the Arts visiting committee, by reason of student practitioners who are Symposium in February of this -their own experience in the arts capable of advancing that growth. year acted on behalf of the and education, share a common This seems to have happened for College a.s a whole, not merely as educational philosophy. We did three general reasons: special pleaders for an arts Mt plan it that way. We 1. Students now attending curriculum. In their words, the discovered· it in QUr discussions. colleges of the liberal arts 'bring purpose of the Symposium was Although our individual with them from the larger culture ••to enco.\irage the college experience has varied, ranging a degree of knowledge alld community to consider what an from work in the theatre, music, interest in the arts much greater arts program might or should the visual arts and in dance. film- than that of students in the past, offer,\ \to raise the awareness of making and design, we share the and many of them are hungry for the community to the importance view that the basic means of a chance to try themselves out in of the arts;\ \to provide the education in the arts 'lies in the one or another of the creative administration and our Arts practice .of the arts themselves. fields. Departments with a general Two of us, Lionel Nowak and 2. At Union College, students understanding of the community;s myself, have beeiJ. closely att-ached who are hard at work for thirty to feelings and possibly provide for · many years to colleges, forty hours each week in the them with sotne new ideas to ~ennington and Sarah Lawrence, traditional academic disciplines consider in planning a program which established at their where the aesthetic content is for the future.\ From the founding more than forty-five often minimal, find it information we gathered during years ago the practice of the arts enlightening, spiritually refres-hing our Visj t, the Symposium as integral components of the and.· educationally valuable to regular lt\beral arts --urrt'cu!u·m succeeded in accomplishing its · ·. · \' · · · · · spend the remaining third oftheir aims. Robert Gray, as Dean of the scheduled time in the enjoyment Visual Arts at tlte, State of a: completely differ.ent kind of A BRIEF RATIONALE University of New York in experience. Because of · the In the light of the present Pur(:hase, is administering a cooperative nature of work in the situation, we have not considered program designed fc·r arts, this brings them together in it necessary to provide an participation by students in the a new kind of comradeship with extensive rationale for the need to visual media. Frank McMullan in students and faculty members expand the role ·of the arts at his work at Yale h.a~ b~en they would otherwise never meet, Union. Statements of that involved in theatre as production in the experience of creating rationaie exist in abundance in and performance as well as with 0 ,, .-,. theatre as ~ right. As a cor discussed education ir say that ( experience; educators, 1 is one whic of learning by pra.ctic carrying oti their variou On tht1, otb fully the J history apd and Jhe · betweep ph betWeen st\ and kno\\ themselves. We ther< division bet art historiaJ artist, nor d objection curriculum example; s1 and criticis1 of introduc understandi of the thea1 humanist r would agr general prompted National Er to form a for the Hu closely rei: projects ov two differe functions. In the c: liberal art! distinction l intent on ; often cho conservator arts college Lawrence, elsewhere, 1 are to be fo think of thl as a time ' particular t and need arrangernen bring that curriculum In our di Union Coli for the qto general stl,lc with profes although it that those v a given art: professio; performers, practice an1 Union mo personal ar rather than professiona The Que Willard paper on t o( structurt arrangemen question c division sh< arts or the system shm the Huma argument ir present strl The College it ~s by add to the· exist interested would enro growth in f: personnel t of enrollme On the approach situation wl its own dilemmas.· from the already to<J to teach th who wish tc unless a· 1 'consider 'the existing

CQNCORDlENSIS, Wedner;d4y, Sept 29~ )-976 ' .. - . \ -- ··- .... . -. . ·- . ··- .•.. . . ' Pag_e.7_ lTI lT theatre as an art form in its 9WQ curriculum, -the frustrations will American ~ulture. We include the I)hilosophy and psychology of right. continue, as wilt the present ph9tography as an allied art for art, mythology, among others. As a committee, we have not obstacles to the recruitment of essentially the same reasons. We assume that students at work discJ.lssed the. theory of arts arts students. The danger :is th~tt Many of the activities planned ill painting and the visual arts or education in detail, but it is fair to in the abseQce of a new and for ·the future could be developed in the performing arts should say that on the basis of our imaginative pl~m for .tbe whole into proposa;ls for grants from the have access to courses of this experience; as teachers and College~. the att program will National Endowments, the New kind. Whether they should be educators, the approach we take continue of a piece-meal basis· to 'York State Arts Council, offered in the Arts Division or in is one which emphasjzes the idea- add courses and faculty ,members foundations and other funding the Humanities is not as of learnitig to understand· the arts ·within the present framework. bodies. We did not investigate the.· irnporlant as that they should be by practicing them and by · The ba11ic dilemma can then be present program of grant taught bY pe()ple Who are directly carrying ouf creative work within seen. If the College is to pre 11 ent applications. at Union. Our in touch with the materials and their various forms .of expression. itself to the PP!lblic and to impression is that there has not ideas of the artists, and who enjoy On th(\ other hartd, we re.cognize incoming students as an been a great deal of activity in the the arts as experience; fully the relation between the institution w:ith a lively arts . search for outside support .to Among those students who, out history and criticism of the arts program, and if the presentation Union arts projects. If the of a se'nse of duty or from serious and Jhe work of the artist, is at all successful, this will result impression is correct, this''is an :interest, take lari courses~ of a betweep philosophy and practice, in additional over-crowding.C).f the area in the development worl( of · wore aca,demic kin<l,. there are between study in the humanit~es already inadequate facilities. and _the College which . could be 'many whO· respond to the and knowledge of the arts program. Qn the . other' hand. if. expanded with great benefit to _....teaching, when it is good enough, themselves. , the College does not markedly Union. The co10petition for by wanting to !<now more and to We therefore find no sharp increase the range of. its pre~>ent public and private funds is keen, experience more. In some cases, division between the· work of the program and facilities, it ca.nnot but there are more funds available they don't want to paint, sculpt ot art historian and th~: work of the honestly present itself to the for the arts from the grant- act. 1hey want to know more and artist, nor do we take educational outseide world as a college making organizations· than ever enjoy more, they become embryo objection to a liberal arts designed to fulfill the needs of before, and a number the grants. ·curators of their' own personal· curriculum which inchii:les., for students interested in the arts and fit t~e category of support for·. museums, recorders and critics of example; study in the liteiature .related fields. visit,ng artists, performers and what they see, and this is their and criticism .of drama as a means · In our judgment, the solution arts projects which aid in the total educational approach to the arts. of introducing the student to an to the dilemma is to take the development of arts program for There must be room for them understanding and ,appreciation bigger step. 1 on the theory that the future. Other grants for which at Union and, everything else of the theatre. Th~ artist and th,e since the College has decided that Union could qualify have to do b~ing equal, arrangements should humanist need each other. We somethtng must bae done, the with i!lcreasing the scope of be made for them to be in the would agree however to the best course gf action is to do it influence of the arts in local same courses with the general distinction which right. That means the creation of commumttes and in regional practitioners, or if not in the same prompted the founders o.f the a Division of the Arts, which in public schools. courses, to have an association National Endowment for the Arts itself is a declaration of the Aside from' the development of with the live arts and the Union to form a separate Endowment seriousness of the intent and an . new courses and new areas of the practitioners in one way or for the Humanities. The two. are undeniable statement t~'the world curriculum, we suggest that the another; This ·would argue for closely related, some of their that the arts' at Union are Arts Division of new courses and offering the academic arts comses projects gverlap, but they serve considered to be in equal status new areas of the curriculum, we in the Division of the Arts so that two different if complementaty with the Humanities, Social suggest that the Arts Division the emphasis c~uld clearly be on functions. Sciences, Engineering and encourage projects like t:he relation between the live arts and In the case- of the college ·of S<;ience. Seminar P-rog.ram of the available scholarship in the field. liberal alts, the saroe general Within an Arts Dvision, led by Intercollegiate Musical Council, On the other hand, it is equally distinction holds. A music student a teaching Dean, courses would the ,New American Playwrights important that an interest in the intent on a career in the field be offered in Music; Theate, Program, visits by student dance, arts he cultivated in other sections often chooses to attend a Dance, Painting, Sculpture, music and theatre groups, of the . College curriculum, conservatory rather than a liberal Drawing, Design, Photography, , inter[).ships in off-off-Broadway particularly in the humanities .and arts college, although at Sarah Film-making and Creative dance and theatre, exchange, of so.cial sciences. Professor Lawrence, . Bennington, and Writing. This is not to undergraduate and graduate Freund;s work in art history was elsewhere, both kinds of students r~commend·· a sharp break' with students witll other . colleges mentioned several times as a are to be found in attendance. We the past, nor does the addition of whose arts programs have special serious contribution to the arts at think of the undeJ;:_graduate years Dance and. Film-making as· characteristics, intercollegiate Union, and the fact that his as a time of exploration, and if regular e l e·m en t s i n poetry festivals, and similar courses are offered in the particular talents are discovered the~atts· program mean a shift .. in- events. Since- many of the Union Humanities Division rather than and need fuller development, educational philosophy. It is students. have organizational in the Arts Department is arrangements can be made to simply a recognition of the need talents, the general emphasis in irrelevant ·to that contribution. bring that about within the for extension of what is now the arrangements for projects of Studies in the sociology~ politics curriculum and teachi~g pr()gram. going on and what.,. hould be this . kind sho11ld be on student and economics of the arts and In our discussions about the going on in an e~ tructure parti~ipation as a regular part of their organiu!tion are valuable Union College situation, we have with more ample , .,_. that their credit~bearing course work. means of introducing students to for the ~ost part considered the structure can be built around the lt was our experience at Sarah an understanding of the place of general st~dent rather than those .existing program in some of the Lawrence that when we took the arts in American society, as with professional ambitions, and · ways already suggested in the steps to bring other students, are studies in comparative although it is perfectly possible material supplied to our artists and performers to the· culture, Afro-American culture, that those who enroll as majors in committee by the faculty. That is College on weekends and on the arts of the Third World, the a given arts field may mature as to say, ill the interim .period of special occasions, it not only. social history -of American jazz. professional artists and building·· the Division, visiting raised the level of quality in the 1 Links between technology and performer!!, we think of the faculty members, performers, experience of Sarah Lawrence 'engineering and the electronics practice and study of the arts at artists and graduate interns could students, but established the media, other links with theatre, Union more as a means of be brought to Union for periods College as a center for the arts in dance and music in design personal and cultural fulfillment ranging from one week to a full the minds of those who came to projects have already been made rather than as preparatit?n for a semester to carry out projects in us and who spread tht;. word in other colleges, most notably at professional career. ·. · teaching and performance. Full about the activities when they MIT, and .could very well become The Questi~n of Structure use could be made of the teaching went back home. . part of the new program at · and cultural resources of the In that way we were able to Union. . Willard Enteman~s interesting · · surrounding community, build a n~twork of students and According to the catalog paper on the practical problems · o( structure within the divisional including the resources of pther teachers at other colleges and : listing, there. are at present just arrangements at Union raises the colleges. Barry Smith's report on schools who understood what we two courses in creative writing at question of whether a new the Union Theatre program is were ·doing at Sarah Lawrence . UQic:m, taught in the English division should be created for the rich in suggestions for future and who were accurate Department and limited to poetry developments based on present spokesmen for the College's and fiction. We assume that a arts or the present departmental activities in theatre and other educational ideas. In the long ruh, new arts program would include system should be retained within fields. it is the studen'ts who exert the mote 'opportunities for students the Humanities Division. The We most influence among, other to write for films, television, argument in favor of retaining the have not thought it students in establishing the theatre, dance, drama and other present structure is a. good one. necessary to make the case ·for reputation of an edqcational media. We also assume that The College could go from where including dance in the new Union it ~s by adding other departments curriculum, since we assume from institution, and for their own sal<:e students would be encouraged to to the· existing ones, and students our two days of discussion that as well as for their colleges, they learn how to write about the arts interested ifi these departments there is already a common should· have open access to every . themselves, as critics and would enroll there, with a natural recognition that a performing arts kjnd of opportunity to organize commentators, not only of the growth in facilities and number of curriculum without dance makes their own events and to share in work of their fellow students in personnel to match the pressures nc::i sense either as education ot as In!l,kiQ.~ the curriculum. --· -· - all the art~, but of performances of enrollment. art. We feel the same way about THE ARTS AND THE of recorded music, films, On the other hand, this ~ibn-making and film study. This HUMANITIES television plays, art ex~ibits and approach would continue a 1s an area of the arts curricu1um · cultural events of all kmds .. Although the Division of the The introduction of an. Arts situation which is already creating Which has had an extraordinary Arts in the plan we suggest wQuld .Division would focus curricular its own frustrations a'nd gro~t;h over the past ten years contain -courses and projects thinking on all t.hese questions, dilemmas.· The frustrations arise untllm 1976 the\e are mote than h' h h · h · f . . • . . ... · . · . w tc emp astze t e pract1ce o including the question of what to from the fact that , there are 900 ~olleges where fllm-makmg~ · the. arts themselves, as noted do with the Comprehensive already too few faculty members. and fdm stu~y are regular course above __ we make no sharp Education courses. We heard a to teach the number -of students of study. It ts not only· a way of distinction between those and fair amount -of criticism of these, who wish to work in the arts, and t~ehing students to create and to other related courses most often on two 8 -rounds. First, in t-he unless a· decision is· made to see but a d·1·r .... t· m ·n\' f ~: d · h h · · b . ' . . . ....... ell \ o .oun 10 t e umamttes division general curriculum they were ·cofisidet'the ar.ts iq.. equal status t(J . nngmg. stud~nts _in tou~h with, - the study of the. history of the described as. watered~down existing elements of the among -other Items, the h1story of arts, dramatic literature criticism · • .~ .. ,_ ...... ~ ~·\'· , : ,,~; .• _1)Pn· • . • •. -. • •• · _.. · • · , • . • ,. • vers1o~s ·of.the real thing, ot, in the ca~e of the 'Options in Creativity,' duplications of existing offerings which should be included in the Arts program as a whole since they are taught by the same faculty members for the · same .general rea~ons. Second, in the genetal curriculum the courses had been installed without sufficient involvement with the faeulty members who were to teach them, and much of the teaching was carried out by persons who did not particularly enjoy them or understand f{llly their purpose in distinction from the r:egular departmental offerings. During the short span of time available to us during our visit, there was no opportunity to look into this matter in any detail, although it was our impression that the matter did need looking into. AN ARTS CENTER AND NEW FACILITIES lt seemed clear to us and to everyone to whom we talked that in order to advance the cause of the arts at Union, a compre- hensive plan must be made for providing new facilities for all the arts, and that this would involve a major investment in buildings and a major fund-raising campaign. If the College is · to be serious on the future of the arts, it cannot go on improvising in the conversion of existing space, adding a little here and a little there and never having the full range of designed space necessary for the future. Aside from this, there is a special kind of energy that begins to flow when a decision has been made to raise the funds for a nt!cessary and ideal enterprise. When properly organized, a fund-raising program concentrates attention on the aims for which the funds are to be used and enhances the entet:prise, collects new supporters and provides a chance for alumni, students, trustees, faculty members and the administration to work together in a common cause. There are sometimes objections within a gi:ven college community to · the · idea of mounting a campaign for a new development at a time when funds are needed fot regular operations or for other purposes. In the case of a campaign for an Arts Center at Union. as in other examples of colleges, this would mark the first time that the College has set out to raise large-scale funds for the arts, and your committee would expect, as has been the case elsewhere, that potential donors to the arts at Union would emerge during a campaign as donors who would not be interested in giving to other purposes. In a campaign of this kind, aecording to our experience at Sarah Lawrence, Bennington, Yale and Purchase, it is not so much a compt;:tition for funds in general, but the discovery of new potential donors and supporters of the arts. For example, the formation of a special committee to work with Union graduates who were active in the Mounte- banks while in college, as suggested ·by Barry Smith, would add new sources of support to a campaign. Other alumni, parents; and community leaders could be found witling to take an active part. Festivals of the arts, special ilrts weekends, conferences and celebrations could be organized, with participants from the College and elsewhere, to which alumni and others could be invited. The campaign, in other words, could be organized as a work of art in itself, using the live arts as instruments for raising the level of their importance to the future of the College. Continued on Paae ro '

OONCORDlENSI~, Wednesday;· Sept._ 29, 1976 -; •• £ BUILDING BLOCKS Throughout the past year we haVe been barraged with memoranda, reports, plans, data, hopes, and all other publishable information on the arts. It is becoming increasingly difficult to find someone who is ilot in favor of the cultural enlightenment at Union. It now is time that the college take some affirmative action. _ The report of the Visiting Committee on the Arts is both optimistic and reassuring in its assessment of Union's ability to develop a comprehensive arts department. Our path should be obvious. We need to get out from beneath the deluge of literature, evaluate all the proposals, and develop a concrete plan with which to proceed. The report's call for immediacy is clear: Union is at least a decade behind the times in its response to the academic and cultural demands of the arts. If the College ever is to develop an arts curriculum of value the administration, faculty, and student body must take positive steps in that direction. The entire campus community has to join together and begin the necessary fund raising and preliminary work now to insure that Union has a quality arts program tomorrow. BEN,NlNGTO.N'S LOSS Though it is unfortunate that Provost Enteman was not given the support he wanted from the Bennington faculty and, consequently, had to refuse the presidency of that college, we cannot conceal out happiness with his continued stay at Union. Since Dr. Enteman entered the administrative ranks more than five years ago, his balanced insight and sense of perspective, creative initiative, indefatigable devotion to Union, and plain congeniality have served Union well. Dr. Enteman's future service clearly will be Union's gain. IFC Speaks: An Open Letter to the Campus by John Eklund, Pres. of IFC I have been asked to state the position of Unim_1'S. .. fraternities with regard to the present status of Delta Upsilon and the events leading up to t.be administration's decision resulting in that status. From the outset, rest assured that none of the fraternities, least of all Delta Upsilon, nor the Interfraternity Council, the governing body of fraternities at Union, condone the actions which initated the chain of events leading to lD. U.'s eviction fro:ni their house. Moreover, while some of the actions can be considered the type of behaviour that is excusable among boisterous college students, some were reprehensible and have been condemn\!d by the IFC and ALL of the houses Independently. . . - ~ I here arc, however, at lea! three aspc~:ts ul the admm1strat1on s ... actions which Union's fraternities do object to. hrst, such actions can set a dangerous precedent for other fraternities renting their houses from the College. The possibility of the College, in an attempt to forte a renegotiation ol the leases on the frat~mity houses, threatening the fraternities withevictions over matters whJch previously would nut have warrantedthat action in the past is a cause of grave concern, particularly for the six fraternities now living in Davidson. Fox. Potter, and Raymond Houses. Secondly, the severity of the sanqions employed here must be queslioned.The removal of a fraternity from its house can have an enormously damaging effect on the rush program, the main means of replenishing its membership. One of the basic concepts of a fraternity, the social and intellectual interaction among men sharing basic ideals, is undermined when these men cannot live together. Without a house of its own, a fraternity at Union can find itself living on borrowed time. In past, there have been incidents where objectionable behaviour by a fratermty has been punished by revoking its right to hold social events for a period of time. As IFC President, I requested a reexamination of the matter in an attempt to gain the use of less severe sanctions but was turned down. This ·last point .lead's directly to the final. objection At no tiine during the determination tif the D U. case was the Interfraternity Council informed of its progress nor asked to participate ui its resolution. The manner in which I learned M the fnal decision was roundabout and inexcusable. It seems about time the adin!stratiim hegins to recogm;e the· Interfraternity CounciL f<>r what It is. the govern~ng body for a large number of Union's most active. aware, and dedicated men .. instead of a. body to he circumvented and ignored when expedience dictates. !he Rrothers of Delta Upsilon ha vc cpllectcd money for the Heart J.\und organized recreational programs lor underprivileged Schenectady children, and have been active participants in campus activities. lhc actions of a g1ven mght, althou\gh admittedly wrong in some instances, did nCJt, in the opinion of the other IJ fraternities at Union and their Interfraternity C()uncil, warrant ihe extreme act1on the administration took. lherefore, we wholeheartedly support Delta Upsilon in the1r efforts to rectify their present si l'llatiQn. · .. - ......... , , , ... ; , : • , . , . Ex·Froternities, fraternities, and Future Fraternities One of the big news items over the Union summer was the expulsion of the Delta Upsilon . fraternity from their residence on the south side of Fox. Officially, they were not disbanded as a fraternity; their charter is still intact, but their living privileges have been suspended. for one ye~ and the · brothers have · been disseminated on and off campus. Their suspension, an unusual and somewhat extreme move was sanctioned by Dean Smith and President Bonnet. The reasons for their suspension were serious . indeed; during several drunken revels late at night, brothers had filled the air with racist, sexist, and anti-Semitic remarks. l lived on the south side of Fox and spent many an early morning listening to slang that might make Archie Bunker wince. However, the question of the penalty fitting the crime must arise. DU had no monopoly on anti~Semitism · or racism; there were several repot1ed itistances last year of such vile behavior performed by both Fraternity and independent. There was great \pressure\ to alleviate the situation from all segments on campus and DU (which incidentally has Jews and has had bl~tcks as brothers) may have been a convenient scapegoat. More serious reason By MATT BRIEF bunches of guys, fraternity or in<!epem;lent or both are also suspect. However, far fewe~: windows were broken on the Fiji side of ,Fox, or the KA side of Davidson. Most 4m.portantly, several students were told Which DU brother threw rocks at windows but this too was never substantiated, and at any rate no student ever stepped .foward with a specific charge. This year is an ideal testing opportunity; without DU's presence, to once and for all propei'ly aJfix the blame. We can only wait and see~ Certainly, chronic window breaking using such potentially deadly weapons as beer bottles or bricks, merits not mere \suspension\ of living privileges but total disbandment: DU may have been guilty of things in which all to many people on this campus participate. Racism exists, but Window brea,king is deadly. Will DU return ·in a year? Th~y might return to Fox, or to Lenox Road, or as a remote possibility, establish themselves off-campus. Sec~et Soei,ety William's students favored a fraternity return and a study made at Williams which cited a woeful lack of extra-curricular, community, and intellectual commitment on the part of fraternity brothers at the College. Therefore, Williams · is rigidly against the relurn of fraternities. A Similar Study A similar study of the fraternities' role and effect at Union might be appropriate this year. No one can doubt the enhancement of the soCial life by fraternities, and they certainly have performed many charitable functions, Chi Psi and Sigma Chi's spring parties being outstanding examples. There have also been quite a few outs~anding students in fraternities. that contributed to this campus in areas ranging from student g()vemment to the Cabaret, Are these individual students aberrations, and do fraternities inherently focus against contributing to the campus because the house come& first? I don't know; tile preblem is that in the meantime, all kinds of mud- There was an interesting article slinging and vicious rumors will in the Williams Record on Sept. b~ spread around at the expense 17 of 1976. Williams is. of course, of fraternities. Perhaps Dr. the college many Union students Bonner ()ught to appoint a special tcy to pretend they are attending. · · f d (b h All, Williamsmaniacs and others commtsston o stu ents ot . independents a,nd brothe~), I am by no means endorsing the return of Oelta Upsilon to Fox; I feel they ought to be removed for a far more 11erious reason. Many students on the south side of Fox last year were awakened by the shattering of broken windows. Various \missiles\ were used: beer bottles, rock$, and even bricks. One night a living room in the suite next door to mine was virtually demolished by a hurling brick that shattered a window at 2 in the morning. Of course, no one can \prove\ any of this was done by D U; townies and rowdy would do well to read an article in fa c u 1 t y, members, and their newspaper which states how administrators to study if the the National Charter of AD Phi concept of fraternities is recently tried to. ,set up a secret incompatible with the idea of a front organization called the small liberaJ arts community Adelphic Literary Society at whose members must give as Williams. The problem was that receive. Union's long, proud Williams abolished fraternities· in fraternity tradition may be the six:ties. This Adelphic Literary inimical to where Union should Society planned to pave the way b · h fl . f . · . . . . e gotng; · owever, some sort of or a ?ew rater~uty at ~d~tam~ commission may also clear the air and tht.s clearly VIolated ~tlltams _. of some of the .foul rumors about regul~tions .. Upon. the dJscoyery fraternities and show that they are of thts Adelphtc Literary Society, scapegoats for illnesses that affect the Dean of ~tudents crac~ed all of us . at union. Both do~, threate~mg legal aotto~ fraternities and independents need ag~t?st the Nahonal o~ A.D. P.ht. to have the air cleared; a little Wt~liams Dean also ctted a pnll truth about fraternities in the year which showed that only flo 04 of DU's suspension is in order. etters to. e DU - . opolog_y I clarification The brothers of Delta Opsilon wish to express their apologies to any student who was offended during the incidents of June 3, 1976. The events which occurred were unintentional and were not meant to harass any group of students. An issue involving such drastic measures as expulsion from the campus is bound to generate a lot _ of public opinion both for and against the action. It is not .our intention to condemn the acton of .. - - ~ ....... - the CoiJege at this time but to simply clarify some of the facts. The incident star~d with a small celebration by a few members. primarily seniors, over the end of classes for the year. No finals were scheduled for Friday the 4th, on the distributed finals schedule. Secondly. the situation did not erupt until one brother walked outside and was greeted With an obscenity by a resident of 3rd floor Fox. Not realizing who the student was at the time, the brother was offended and yelled back. Soon the yelling involved mote than the original two. Two of the brothers went up to the 3td floor to demand an apology and became rather annoyed when the people in the room from which the yelling oCcurred denied knowing who had yelled. Wben the person who yelled was brought to the room. the incident was settled. The incident · never involved the entire brotherhood. it involved only 8 members. FinaiJy, the incident did not last until 4 in the morning but was over before 2. This fact has been V(!rirred by both editors of this paper, who lived on the Jrd floor last .spring. The brotherhoOd as a whoJe will not condone any occurrences such as this in the future. A conduct committee has been set up to eliminate any racial. ethnic obscene, or harassing · behavior: Any offenders will be dealt with l!arshJ,Y, with p_unisbment goi~g as fur as expulsion from the chapter if necessary. · . :'t the present time, the chapter . ts uwolved in a cooperative effort with the administration to prove our sincere desires to make any necessary changes so that we can be reinstated on campus. Brothers of DU administrators fraternities As president of one of the active fraternities on campus, the question of the expulsion of the Delta Upsilon fraternity is a very important ,one: ,to me. My position JUtd obvious allegiance to fraternities. ll1anifests my feelings concerning the vital role that fraternities play ~ - a college environment, particularly here at Union. The events leading up to this decision last spring. still remain somewhat uncl~iu:. to me. Under.; stao:dably, ~rar eonflicting · reports have ·· been voiced concerning 'this incident. One thing that does remain clear, however, is the unfair treatment O.U. received at the hands of the administratio14 · particularly the Dean of Stud.ent\s office. It is my understanding. that in an attempt to draw up a compromise to the Dean for reactivation on tbe Union campus. the 0; U. btothers Were quickly refused and ridiculous criticisms were made, by the Dean, pf the D . .U. proposal. This. to me 7 is a very clear · frater1 in the of tb appe~ ad mil ad van elimin that i doxic1 to as; at U1 this .rerulil; to re; abseru on su; housi1 that 1 D.U. fri~ht1 T'hi: out th to be! college fraterr feel in!! unhea attitud to ware stu den issue v are 1>1 e.xces~ dec is recons issue a reaehi1

·Page_8 CONCORDIENSJS, Wednesday, Sept. 29, 1976 BUILDING BLOCKS Throughout the past year we have been barraged with memoranda, reports, plans, data, hopes, and all other publishable information on the arts. It is becoming increasingly difficult to find someone who is not in favor of the cultural enlightenment at Union. It now is time that the college take some affirmative action. The report of the Visiting Committee on the Arts is both optimistic and reassuring in its assessment of Union's ability to develop a comprehensive arts department. Our path should be obvious. We need to get out from beneath the deluge of literature, evaluate all the proposals, and develop a concrete plan with which to proceed. The report's call for immediacy is clear: Union is at least a decade behind the times in its response to the academic and cultural demands of the arts. If the College ever is to develop an arts curriculum of value the administration, faculty, and student body must take positive steps in that direction. The entire campus community has to join together and begin the necessary fund raising and preliminary work now to insure that Union has a quality arts program tomorrow. BENNINGTON'S LOSS Though it is unfortunate that Provost Enteman was not given the support he wanted from the Bennington faculty and, consequently, had to refuse the presidency of that college, we cannot conceal our happiness with his continued stay at Union. Since Dr. Enteman entered the administrative ranks more than five years ago, his balanced insight and sense of perspective, creative initiative, indefatigable devotion to Union, and plain congeniality have served Union well. Dr. Enteman's future service clearly will be Union's gain. IFC Speaks: • An Open Letter to the Campus by John Eklund, Pres. of IFC I have been asked to state the position of Union's fraternities with regard to the present status of Delta Upsilon and the events leading up to the administration's decision resulting in that status. From the outset, rest assured that none of the fraternities, least of all Delta Upsilon, nor the Interfraternity Council, the governing body of fraternities at Union, condone the actions which initated the chain of events leading to i D. U .'s eviction from their house. Moreover, while some of the actions can be considered the type of behaviour that is excusable among boisterous college students, some were reprehensible and have been condemned by the IFC and ALL of the houses independently. lhere are. however, at teat three aspects of the administration's actions which Union's fraternities do object to. First, such actions can set a dangerous precedent for other fraternities renting their houses from the College. The possibility of the College, in an attempt to force a renegotiation of the leases on the fraternity houses, threatening the fraternities withevictions over matters which previously would not have warranted that action in the past is a cause of grave concern, particularly for the six fraternities now living in Davidson, Fox, Potter, and Raymond Houses. Secondly, the ~verity of the sanctions employed here must be questioned.The re'!!_oval of a fraternity from its house can have an enormously damaging effect on'the rush program, the main means of replenishing its membership. One of the basic concepts of a fraternity, the social and intellectual interaction among men sharing basic ideals, is undermined when these men cannot live together. Without a house of its own, a fraternity at Union can find itself living on borrowed time. In past, there have been incidents where objectionable behaviour by a fraternity has been punished by revoking its right to hold social events for a period of time. As IFC President, I requested a reexamination of the matter in an attempt to gain the use of less severe sanctions but was turned down. This last point leads directly to the final objection. At no time during the determination of the D U. case was the Interfraternity Council informed of its progress nor asked to participate in its resolution. The manner in which I learned of the fnal decision was roundabout and inexcusable. It seems about time the adinistration begins to recognize the Interfraternity Council, for what it is, the governing body for a large number of Union's most active·, aware, and dedicated men, instead of a body to be circumvented and ignored when expedience dictates. The Rrothers of Delta Upsilon have collected money for the Heart f-und organized recreational· programs for unoerprivileged Schenectady children, and have been active participants in campus activities. The actions of a gtven mght, although admittedly wrong in some instances, did not, in the opinion of the other 13 fraternities at Union and their Interfraternity Council, warrant the extreme action the administration took. Therefore, we wholeheartedly support Delta Upsilon in their efforts to rectify their present situation. Ex-Fraternities, fraternities, ond future Fraternities One of the big news items over the Union summer was the expulsion of the Delta Upsilon Fraternity from their residence on the south side of Fox. Officially, they were not disbanded as a fraternity; their charter is still intact, but their living privileges have been suspended for one year and the brothers have been disseminated on and off campus. Their suspension, an unusual and somewhat extreme move was sanctioned by Dean Smith and President Bonner. The reasons for their suspension were serious indeed; during several drunken revels late at night, brothers had filled the air with racist, sexist, and anti-Semitic remarks. I lived on the south side of Fox and spent many an early morning listening to slang that might make Archie Bunker wince. However, the question of the penalty fitting the crime must arise. DU had no monopoly on anti-Semitism or racism; there were several reported instances last year of such vile behavior performed by both Fraternity and independent. There was great \pressure\ to alleviate the situation from all segments on campus and D U (which incidentally has Jews and has had blacks as brothers) may have been a convenient scapegoat. More serious reason am by no means endorsing the return of Delta U psi! on to Fox; I feel they ought to be removed for a far more serious reason. Many students on the south side of Fox last year were awakened by the shattering of broken windows. Various \missiles\ were used: beer bottles, rocks, and even bricks. One night a living room in the suite next door to mine was virtually demolished by a hurling brick that shattered a window at 2 in the morning. Of course, no one can \prove\ any of this was done by DU; townies and rowdy By MATT BRIEF bunches of guys, fraternity or independent or both are also suspect. However, far fewer windows were broken Ofl the Fiji side of Fox, or the KA side of Davidson. Most importantly, several students were told which DU bro.ther threw rocks at windows but this too was never substantiated, and at any rate no student ever stepped foward with a specific charge. This year is an ideal testing opportunity, without DU's presence, to once and for all properly affix the blame. We can only wait and see. Certainly, chronic window breaking using such potentially deadly weapons as beer bottles or bricks, merits not mere \suspension\ of living privileges but total disbandment. DU may have been guilty of things in which all to many people on this campus participate. Racism exists, but window breaking is deadly. Will DU return in a year? They might return to Fox, or to Lenox Road, or as a remote possibility, establish themselves off-campus. Secret Soci.ety William's students favored a fraternity return and a study made at Williams which cited a woeful lack of extra-curricular, community, and intellectual commitment on the part of fraternity brothers at the CoHege. Therefore, Williams is rigidly against the return of fraternities. A Similar Study A similar study of the fraternities' role and effect at Union might be appropriate this year. No one can doubt the enhancement of the social life by fraternities, and they certainly have performed many charitable functions, Chi Psi and Sigma Chi's spring parties being outstanding examples. There have also been quite a few outstanding students in fraternities that contributed to this campus in areas ranging from student government to the Cabaret. Are these individual students aberrations, and do fraternities inherently focus against contributing to the campus because the house comes first? I don't know; the problem is that in the meantime, all kinds of mud- slinging and vicious rumors will be spread around at the expense of fraternities. Perhaps Dr. Bonner ought to appoint a special commission of students (both independents and brothers), faculty, members, and There was an interesting article in the Williams Record on Sept. 17 of 1976. Williams is, of course, the college many Union students try to pretend they are attending. All Williamsmaniacs and others would do well to read an article in their newspaper which states how the National Charter of AD Phi recently tried to set up a secret front organization called the Adelphic Literary Society at Williams. The problem was that Williams abolished fraternities in the sixties. This Adelphic Literary Society planned to pave the way for a new fraternity at Williams and this clearly violated Williams' regulations. Upon the discovery of this Adelphic Literary Society, the Dean of Students cracked down, threatening legal action against the National of A.D. Phi. Williams Dean also cited a pnll which showed that only {lo OJ administrators to study if the concept of fraternities is incompatible with the idea of a small liberal arts community whose members must give as receive. Union's long, proud fraternity tradition may be inimical to where Union should be going; however, some sort of commission may also clear the air of some of the foul rumors about fraternities and show that they are scapegoats for illnesses that affect all of us at Union. Both fraternities and independents need to have the air cleared; a little truth about fraternities in the year of DU's suspension is in order. DU -. apology /dar~Hcofion administrator$ The brothers of Delta Upsilon wish to express their apologies to any student who was offended during the incidents of June 3, 1976. The events which occurred were unintentional and were not meant to harass any group of students. An issue involving such drastic measures as expulsion from the campus is bound to generate a lot of public opinion both for and against the action. It is not ·Our intention to condemn the acton of the College at this ~im~- ~t -;~ simply clarify some of the facts. The incident started with a small celebration by a few members, primarily seniors, over the end of classes for the year. No finals were scheduled for Friday the 4th, on the distributed finals schedule. Secondly, the situation did not erupt until one brother walked outside and was greeted with an obscenity by a resident of 3rd floor Fox. Not realizing who the student was at the time, the brother was offended and yelled back. Soon the yelling involved more than. the original two. Two of the brothers went up to the 3rd floor to demand an apology and became rather annoyed when the people in the room from which the yelling occurred denied knowing who had yelled. When the person who · yelled was brought to the toom., the incident was . settled. The incident · never involved the entire brotherhood. It involved only 8 members. Finally, the incident did not last until 4 in the morning but was over before 2. Thi!l fact has been verified by both editors of this paper, who lived on the 3rd floor last spring. The brotherhood as a whole Will not condone any occurrences such as this in the future. A conduct committee has been set up to eliminate any racial, ethnic, obscene, or harassing behavior. Any offenders will be dealt with harshly, with punishment going as far as expulsion from the chapter if necessary. · At the present time, the chapter is involved in a cooperative effort with the administration to prove our sincere desires to make any necessary changes so that we can be reinstated on campus. · Brothers of DU v. fraternities As president of one of the active fraternities on campus, the question of the e)Cpulsion of the Delta Upsilon fraternity is a vecy important one to me. My position and obvious allegiance to -fraternities manifests my feelings concerning the vital role that fraternities play in a college environment, particularly here at Union. · .. The events leading up to this decision last spring, still remain somewhat unclear to me. Under- standably, severaf conflicting reports have been voiced concerning ·this incident. One thing that does remain clear, however, is the unfair treatment D. U. received at the hands of the administration, . particularly the Dean of Student's office. It is my understanding that in an attempt to draw up a compromise to the Dean for reactivation on the Union campus, the D.U. brothers were quickly refused and ridiculous criticism!) were made, by the Dean, pf the D.U. proposal. this, ·to me, is a very ~ i~ \~ }1~ ;~· .. ; ~'~· f. tii e:\' ~ \. , ' r~ ~ r't l r. ·y t.: 1:- r.: L: ,, r~ t;fi> ~,)., ~:;. \ ,f \\'rl ~~· ~ L t'l' ., ''!'• l ... 'IJ ,. \ : .'1> clear fraten in the ()f th appell admit ad van elimin that i1 doxici to as; at Ur this readil: to re; absen~ On SUI housit that 1 D.U. fri~htc Thii out th to be~ co !leg~ fraterr feeling unhea attitud to war< studen issue \1 are b• excessc decisl recons issue a reachi1

., . i:·~ +, ·. f. '•. .,. CONCORDIENSJS, Wednesday, Sept. 29, 1976 Page·9 Nott Renovated It is during the summer that Union College traditionally undergoes its metamorphoses. Shrubs are trimmed back, the ivy grows freely and the campus is invaded by various persuasions of people from philandering philosophers to Teen Age Republicans. Summer is also a time for renovation at the College, the time for laying a new floor in the -Arts Building, or sinking a sidewalk next to Library Field. Summertime may mean employment for students who are willing to bear the torpid August heat i,n the Mohawk Valley. Several students each year land clear example of the anti:. fraternity spirit which is present in the thinking of many members of the administration. It also appea.rs clear that these administrators are · 'taking advantage of every opportunity to eliminate every fraternity chapter that it can in an effort to para- ', doxically create what some refer to as a \sense of community\ here at Union. The ramifications of this type of attitude beco.me readily apparent when one begins to realite th~·. good effects the absence of fraternities would have on such college institutions as the housing office. It is in this light that the college's action against D. U. suddenly becomes frightening. ' jobs in the College's Maintenance department; they assist the regular employees by cut~ing grass, refinishing the cast uon fence which circumvents the grounds, and preparing the athletic fields for the thundering hooves of the football team. With this precedent in mind, 5 Union College students led by Art Department Professor Charles Steckler, approached the College administration last spring with a 10 week work project proposal. The students, Dave Mulligan, Blair Reischer, Marshall Wisoff, Joseph Millett, and Andy Koblenz, sought employment through the College for much This incident points up the need for a new evaluation of the · motives of the administtatioit · in certain of their actions. The planned. anti-fraternity activiti~s. Which this incident implies, could possibly have the most thought• lessly detrimental results of any other event in' the history of Uniou College. I hope that, in this fight, the reinstatement of the · Delta Upsilon fraternity at Union College will be reconsidered. SinQerely. John. Monaco President-Sigma Phi Student body attitude assail6ci To the Editor: This letter serves only to point out that we real~e the D.U. issue to be something more than a mere college gripe with one particular fraternity. It symbolizes a certain feeling, one I consider to be unhealthy, concerning the attitudes of the administrators toward various factions .of the student body. lf this is truly an issue where the rights of one party are being infringed ort by the excesses ·of another, then the decision should not · be reconsidered. Unfortunately; this issue appears to be much more far reaching than this. Many of our fello'V ~tudents, on their way from the Sciertce and Social Science buildings to the Library, must have paused and gazed upon a bright yellow poster. announcing the upcoming inaugural lecture of the Washington Irving Professorship by Dr. Gary Wills. Dr. Wills, as most of you unfortunately do not know, is the noted author of Nixon Agonistes, and a· regular contributot to the New York Tirnes Magazine and the New York Book Review. This lecture, which -is the fir.st of many enlightening talks to come, in this needed renovation and construction in the N ott Memorial Theatre. In sight of the eventual\ establishment of a Crafts Center downstairs in the College Center, the groups wanted to secure funds for the move of the Director's Lab Theater to the second floor of the building. Working closely with Mr. Walter Stone, Director of the Physical Plant, the students submitted the request to the College. Since much of the work involved electric wiring, carpentry, and extensive painting, the maintenance department had the opportunity to ease most of the work away from its already heavy schedule to the hired student help. Approval for the work project was granted by the College on June 15, two days after commencement exercises.\ Weighing the merits of the proposal, several administrators expressed pleasure at the nature of the involvement, where student resources could be pumped back into college programs. A review of the project seems in order. In the Nott Memorial Theatre, the stage structure erected last winter was dismantled and the wood saved. The auditorium was repaired and painted. The \Green Room\ was stripped, renovated, and repainted. A new box office was constructed across the lobby and away from the front door. The costume construction shop was cordoned off by a thirty foot wall, providing greater security and sound proofing. The rest rooms were repainted, burying forever some of the cleverest, if somewhat . esoteric graffiti the College has known. Perhaps the work projects benefits were best summa,r~ied by the Executive Board :.~l the Student Dramatic Orgattiation, Mountebanks. \The project alleviated some basic problems in our theatre's physical plant. It opened our lobby and provided an improved box office facility. It · helped create tighter security in the Nott and allows us to work in several areas of the building simultaneously without Continued on Page 10 about the expulsion .•• FRO.MTHE PRESIDENT'S DESK By now everyone has heard of the action taken by the College in suspending joint living privileges of Delta Upsilon Fraternity for the coming year. Since much of the information and rumors circulating on the campus are untrue, it is important to set the record straight. Toward the close of the spring term, in response to several incidents, I found it necessary to issue a strong statement condemning campus behavior that was racist, anti-Semitic, or sexist, and warned that such behavior in the future would meet with a firm response. On June 3rd, the day classes ended for the year, some of the active chapter members of D. U. were involved in an incident which, despite repeated warnings by campus security, spread into the courtyard outside Fox Residence Hall and erupted into uncontrolled behavior that included obscene and anti-Semitic language. The chapter asked that the College's response be directed toward the entire fraternity, which was then notified by the Dean of Students that it would be evicted from College housing. An opportunity for an appeal of this decision was provided but the response from the chapter in July was found to be unsatisfactory by College officers. Subsequent meetings between the fraternity's board of trustees, the Dean of Students, and myself dealt with reviews of the incident and conditions under which the chapter would be allowed housing on the campus in the future. Both the active members and trustees of D. U. were informed that the chapter must: \(I) make positive use of the period beginning in the fall term and avail itself of College and trustee assistance; (2) refrain from any behavior that has led to this action on the part of the College; (3) show a clear understanding of the standards that were violated, the seriousness of their behavior, as well as the feelings and rights of other students; and ( 4) give the College a persuasive reason to believe that the chapter is under the strong leadership and control of its officers and that the members are responsive to it.\ In the meantime, the D. U. chapter continues to function. All brothers were provided with alternative room locations, meetings and activities are encouraged, and the College stands ready to work closely with the fraternity to improve its standing and reputation. The action taken by the College was necessary and in the best interest of the future of fraternities on the Unwn campus. I continue to hope for a restored and revitalized fraternity in the months ahead. Other groups on the campus, whether in fraternities or not, will be held to the same standards of behavior at Union College. My own belief in the values of fraternity living- the importance of shared experience, small group living, a sense of brotherhood, and a dedication to ideals - remains strong. The fraternity system at Union has my support and encouragement and I look to a renewal, as I suggested in the Manifesto of Purpose issued at last fall's Sestquicentennial Symposium, of those principles of self- government, campus responsibility, and belief in community that gave birth to social fraternities· on this campus 150 years ago. Union '-'OIWgc .M .111 our fall s~~~ster, p~omised tob~ L'.on~~ .. ~l\n~l·~ an ex.cltmg mtellectual ~~ ~'-11.. V \\' iJ' U experience. Surely. the Union College. student body, who claim equal parity with the students of such fine liberal arts schools -as Williams and Wesleyan, not to mention Colgate and Hamilton, would surely attend a lecture of this cultural. magnitude. Even the posters announcing to the student community that Mr. Wills was indeed speaking, advised one;: to arrive early in the Nott in order to procure a seat. Contrary to Union's so-called reputation of yearning fot intellectual stimulation, the lecture contained only a handful of Union students. This indeed · was an unfortunate experience, and the authors were· distnayed at · the lack of a true collegiate attitude on the part of the student body. Furthermore, members of the faculty and administration were also · saddened by the low student attendance. Finally, to prevent such a situation .from occurring again, we . strongly UJ:ge that you, the student body~ not only attend Dr. Wills' upcoming lectures, bot .any other academ.ic, social and athletic offerings which come up this year. fellow students, Bob Grusky and Mark Seltzer Editors-in-chief .. , ..... . ................................................. hOWIC (ax mike rotondi News editors .................................................................... matt bnel glenn v.olfson Features editor ..................................................... cmd) ~heppard Culture editor ...................................................... mar~hall WI>olt Sports editors............................... . .. ... ... . .. . .. charlie !lanagan allyne pnce ~usan finkelstem Business managers ................................................... ~heryl farber harns halpert Classifieds editor ......... , ................................................... todd miller Subscriptions editor ................................................... harns halpert Layout editor. calendar.. ........................................... Joe cappuccw Photography editor ..................................................... nch guardian Art editor ......................................................................... lester weiss Contributing editors ..................................................... gail chat man jack pitney Staff this issue ......................................... Joe ades, lydia fogclman. Photo staff this issue. brad kessler. marjorie kohn, Iran Iorber. marla luv. karen spar. audre} stem, barbara stern, eileen thoma~ .................. steve gnll, mike knlesa, mitch mind lin. julie seeger. alan tannenbaum And in the clutch .............................. marji ~·oone)-, kat h) grcco. cammy lapetina CONCORDIENSIS is published every \\ ednesda)' by the student body of llnion College, Old Gym Hall, Schencctad), New York.; to which Postal Forms -~579 are directed. Publications Office: The Jewish World Publications, 416 Smith St., Schenectady, N.Y. 12305 (370-5483). Entered in the Schenectady Post Office as Second Class Matter. Subscription Rate 35 cents per copy, $10. a year delivered an)where in the United States. ' .... ,' .. '

· PONCORDIENSIS,_,}fednesday~ Sept. Z9,_.197f!_ ·. . . . ·-~ . . . -- - . . ·- . . ' . ART REPORT ===:t::::::::=· · 'troni Page 1_: froap Page 1 In the brief time \of our visit '· and p.t_t!!i~ _p!_eliminary stage of assocf~ted. And, be<:Jause of its our--discussiOn wun the members poor location (on the inside of the of the Union College community, Fox-Davidson yard) any noise the we are clearly incapable of brothers do make tends to echo providing more than a rough and bother more people than estimate of the amount of funds would ordinarily be ~he case. necessary to provide an Arts Although this is readily admitted Center at Union. From past by all, Trembath conct:des that a expe~ience and some knowledge few of the DU br6thers have of present building costs,. we can caused many problems with however provide the approximate students in the area. Regardless of · figure .iJf ten million dollars as a . the fraternity's past, however, target for the fund-raising asserts Smith, the blame for this program. This would assumt: the particu.l~: incident cannot be basic .provision of a working placed·· :rftywhen; but upon the the~tre, suitable for prodUctions . shoulder!) of DU. in ,theatr.,:, dance and music; film Later this . yt:ar Dean Smith · and · photography studios; plans to introduce a motion pai)1ting; sculpture and design , requesting the College Senate to studio=s, dance. studios; practice set standards of behavior which .. rooms~ offices, seminar and are unacceptable and, therefore, lecture space~ 4,long with punishable, In accordance with exhibition areas. Sarah Lawrence, Purchase ancl YQ.le, where new arts. facilities have been provided recently, to see how these institutions have . solved archi:tectur.;al and educ11,tional problems similar to those at Unioll. In the meantime, ]ndivi(iual . menrb\\ers -·-artd as a committee, youF visiting . comrrUttee stands ready to answer any questions you rna:>; have about our recommendations or a:bm~t the procedures in:vo!ved in carrying them out. \ / Nott Discussed . \1rom ~.Page 9 ·· disturbance. We now have a Gre~n Room which fills the· purpose of a meeting and communication center. And w~:: finally have an experimental theatre space in the College Center, with lighting facilities, from Which we will not liave to move. We star.t the year with vastly improved facilities in which to further develop a ·dynamic theatre arts program.\ · We Need Good Head this, he hopes to have the Studenf Nor do we thinkifappropd~te Life Committee develop strong at this stage for our committee to me~ns of dealing with actions make recommendations as• to falling into the categories numbers of faculty members to be specified by the Senate's added in specific areas or to enactment. The pean is suggest a plan for internal particularly concerned with the organization within· the proposed destruction of College property, Division of the Arts.· There are theft, racism, anti-semitism, ·anti~... ~lready statements about these feminism and actions connected needs in the faculty documents, with ~rinking. The \limits?.! must and a.s plans develop for the be dehneated. allocation of space in an Arts The UniQn Book is now under new management, and we•re out Dayan continued from Page 1 Center, these would go hand in. for fresh blood. This publication . . . . . provides an incredible creative I Assembly). dtscouraged the Israeli and artistic outlet for all members people? . . , . everything, on the whole, he was constructive. Anyway, he was much more energetic and active than any prior American . ;lA DlSON'S!. hand with discussion and decision as to tlte expansion of personnel. of the College community. No, ?ot at all. We don! thmk we are now in the process of that th1s woul<l really dectde. tpe organizing -our •77 staff; anyone future of our c?~ntry. We beheve and everyone with the interest, _that the Palestmtans, too, do n~t desire, and dedication to work in · really accept . the PLO as their layout, photography, copy, or any leaders. And ~t .woul~ .be J-ordan other part of the production or the P~lesllmans hvmg m the process is urged to attend a Gaza Stnp that. would really be general meeting on Monday Oct. the party _to_ decide the futur~ of 4 7:30 in the Union Book office th_e Palestlmall:~ and to negotlate TYPING SERVICE-· • ~e.portS .~ Manusc_fipt~ · .• Theses •: Resume.£, We tnake the suggestion that if the llUljtH recommendations of the present report are accepted, an a~pn>priate Union College group pay visits to Bennington, Secretary of State. . ... You have travelled a great deal in Americ~t. Have you .tiQticed any changes in Ameri4:ans' attitudes toward Israel, especially after the oil crisis? Prompt Service ReO;SOnitble· Rates LUI\E'S SU.fERMARKET 830 EASTERN AVE. h • · f1 c · · With us about tt. t trd .· oor art:tegte. What effect did the Entebbe The direction that I fbund was very positive. Of course, the America!! people have their problems too. But on the whole, 1 1 think that Americans realize that is their obligation as the most powerful nation in the world to ~elp Israel. We might n.ot agree about Gertain points, but Qasically speaking, I think it's a mutual concept. We think th!J,t we have the right to turn to your country. I myself believe that the young generation ~ and Yve been to seventy colleges - does · not relieve itself- of the obligations and the commitments of being Americans, with respect to friendly countries like Israel. So, 433. Liberty St., 37losNl Sdaenectady SAM -IOPM 7 DAYS Harris Suzuki raid have om Israeli morale? F\111 line of deli, cold beer and ·soda, pl()duce and grocery. Editor-in-Chief They liked it. {f yo~ . cann<!t attend this A~;e ther*: any circumstances meeting please contact me at 372- under winch Israel should b804. - ' • negotiate w.ith terrqrlst~? EARN .. THE MBA WilliAN &RADUATE FACULTY AT RUT&ERS \One of America's top Graduate .Schools of Business Administration.\ From A Guide to Executive Edueation in Business Week Magazine Rutgers, The State University, offers you an opportunity to study with one of the nation's most distinguished faculties in management education ~ STUDY·WIJH THE L Richard D. Marshall, LL.B. - Howard University. Former Corporate Officer of the Government National Mortgage Association. Consultant and Advisor in Housing Development and · Municipal Managemenf. Teacher of Real Estate Finance and land Use. Professor of Business. Administration. David K. Whitcomb, Ph.D; -Columbia University. Specialist in Industrial Economics and Security Market Operations an~ Investments. Author. Teacher and -Researcher in Finance antl Economic·s. Associate Professor of Finance. Buckner A. Wallingfor-d, 11, Ph.D . .,--lJniversi!y of -Michigan. Teacher, Researcher and,Consultant in Corporation Finance, Securities Markets, Investment Analysis, and Portfolio Selection and Balance. Auihor. Associate Professor of Business ·Administration. .. Philip C. Shaak,.'D.SA. ~ HarvardUniver.Sity. Internationally-known Management Develop- ment Specialist. Author, Teacher and consultant in General Management; .OtganizationaLBehaviour and Pr.o~uction, Professor .; ofBtlsinessAdministra~ion •. whether as a full-time or part- ...----------------~ time student. The Rutgers I O MBA program is one of three 1 · in the N.Y. Mt;!tropolitan .Area I RJUTiG·.·E. R. s 1· accredited by the American As- I · ·. . · · I ~ · . .·. . · · · '· sembly of Collegiate Schools of I RUTGERSUJmV;ERSI\.('Y. . ··I Business. f Graduate School ofBu$iness A~mihistratio.n . Trimester study program. I 92 New Street, Newark, N'.J.071~2 .. Full~time admissions June and Please send me ·full information on your I September. Part-time admis- I MBA program. • sious September and February. I Name_._ , ·I Convenient locations on our N#lwark 1 Address..____,_ · · .· . ·· . ·· · . . . . . Cam. pus and. in the New Brunswick Area, I Ci~ . . . .. 'S~te . . , · .. Z• IP.- .. :·· ·1·.· ,· ... .. . . --·····;·· ~\. i .... ~'I- .. q., ~ it:if !'\;f.'liJ.l_t,~.-~.i~~ ...... ~~~J.ti,1~4;! .. ~;tt ...... t:!';...~~#;\l~ I don't think so; I think Israel would stick !()\ the pol_icy it has had. Has Henr)' Kissinger negotiated well with respect to the Middle East? Yes, I think that even though 1: did not agree with him on ·FERRO'S. . I i €Y•· ... , . . ~~~ ~ ' ' ~ closest to campus J~gg~ \' .. 575NOitSt. .· /.) 31'1-15tt. .. 34H3ti ton the whole, I do no.t\!lee any shift. GUI.TAR LESSONS All styles, 'I!Ial~f!~~ instructor. Call Ron Letteron, M.M. !lt 372-3656. •hue IS 4 differeneeill Pf,lEPARE FOR: . MCATt DAT• LSAT• SAT GFIE • GMAT • OCAT • CPAT • VAT Over. 3$ YEtllrs of expetJence and suc;cess. smal.l classes. Vol- 1.4mlnouds he~me stucfy milterlals. Courses that are constantly I.IP,di!_t•. ·Centers OPeri daYs & weekends all year. Complete t1,1pe 1 filciJJtJes f.or reyiQW Qf cia$$ lessons iu'ld for use of s.~pP Qmtantary materials. Maka\Ups ·1or missed lessons at e .. r Qin ers. · · · ECFMG • FLEX. NA l'l MEDICAL & DENTAL BOARDS Flexible PrOgrams a Hours Our Qroad.J'aQSEI of. f)rograms pmvide.s an umbrella of festlng know· howttr1lt.enab,le~ ys to olter-.the beat j)reparatkm available further lmprovrrtg th&·lndlvidual·course .y()u've selected. ' Bklyn · ·212-aae.saoo ~· · •.. .· n Manhatta~~_:_212-ti(J3.50o5 · . . \TL · l,ohg lsla!lcf.:.....~~&-~555 · . Ill N . ·.N tW. J·r~et.-:... .. aOMl54-.· t6. 20 . . EDUCAnONALCEN_T_ER_ i.._TD • CALL Ouls~ije.M' st~te Or)ly. . . . . 1675 E 18 st Bklyn · toli:Fre. tD00;22l•9840 · TESTPAEI>~~.nfJ: · . ,~fiofsil~•llfiJSCf~!·:: . SPECIAUSTS.SINC£ 1938 . . . . .... . . .. I t fi a rl tl a it q E a h n ( c E tl g d

r CQNCO~IDENSJS, WednesdaY., Sept. 29, 1976 Pt«f fl. '• . ~- . ~ . ,~ ;_,;t\t:Borinet . Pla:lihing.Committee arrange over the next _ f~w. - years internal restora.tio~ work. At some poin,t, a program may be adopted to request 'Federat aid to .preserve the lan<lmark. ) . _ C()mp·eds Comprehensive -Ed.ucatio~ was another matter thaf will be investigated - and debated. The quest~ioll of Comprehensive Education and it$ value within the academic:; structure of the Cofiege is still ·~hanging in the air.\ For now,. ,the tradjt~onal seven Comprehensive Education courses. are stm required. Bonnets: 1 personal view -is that they help create well•r.ounded graduates who have knowledge in disciplines outside their own .. Who is Dean Potts, Associate Dean of faculty? He will be working as Assoeiate Dean of Faculty under newly arrived Dean Paula Brownlee. The position will include advising students in all areas of academic and college fife, and he will be working in conjunction wjth Therese Ambrusko, Assistant to . the Provost. He will also be working o~ curriculum planning along w1th Dean Brownlee. Tenure Although last term saw extensive discussion and debate on this issue, there has been no change in the tenure procedure. The Ad Hoc Committee will continue to function as it has in the past. Dr. Bonner believes that students still do not understand the complete process of the tenure review board, and feels a closer look into the procedures by students is- necessa~y. He also expressed that he feels our tenure process is more fair than those at many 'Other·schools in-that :we do have student involvement to some extent; most institutions have no seats f{)r students. The subject of Admissions concluded the evenings' topics. It was expressed that the faculty does have a. greater interest in the WRIJC Hi~ by DutcbElm Disease :By NEAL. A. D_AM AM jocks who would never get SCHWARTZ on the carrier current. B studio, . WRtJC ldcked off it_s __ fall the former AM source of the season in fine fa~hion. Radio broadcasts, has been renamed the Union College at 90.9 on the FM B STUDIO FROLIC to avoid dial has come to some substantial confusion on this matter. · decisions. WR UC is· in the final . The B Studio Frolic is very ~tages of obtainin:g a p_ower· Importan_t to.. WRUC for there are mctease that will - btoadcast at least 23 seniors who have radio America's First Collt?ge .Station shows who will not be here next o~er .the majority of the Capital year. This is almost half of the Dtsti'ict. After two unsuccessful FM. staff. Without replacements , ~ttempts to incr_ea,se power due to of hcensed Jocks,. WRUC would mted'erence cqmpliCation~:~, the have to cut back on its most recent attempt looks programming. optimistic due to a new placement WRtJC. is tr~ing to unify its of the antenna. · programnung. To achieve more WRUC. btoadcasted for the continuity, special shows are now first time during the ·entire sc~eduled . fot _Sunday, starting summer~ lt was · Rock Ninety with classical and flowiri_g into (point) Nine fFoni six to tWelve bl~es. Monday through Friday, _ every night (but with the_ FM well hear progressive rock flare}~ This eQ~bled WRlJC to program.ming with a slight learn about Schenectady's taste in emphasts on Folk in the music. sin,ce . they were the only momings, and Jazz l<\ter on in the· one~ up here. Record Service was day. maintained as well as station The production studio, the maintenance frem both a studio that specializes in creating tec.hnical an~--. physical vantage , the _station's public service pomt.. In add1t1on students from announcements and other other colleges participated in our prere7orded . material, is more effort. They provided much input func~I?nal tha~ . in the past. The that will serve to improve the s~udto s capa_bahty fer r~cording station in the future. ~tve matenal (bands) has WRUC AM has been asked to mcreased, and WRUC is looking REST IN PEACE! Last year for . more t~l~nt. Studio C, 'RUC 640 had a brief exposure to . provtdes. a trammg.ground for the the campus. But, after having its studen~ mterest~d m learning the cables cut all over campus, it was tec~nu:~ues Involved with decided that it would be much· engi~eenng a basic recording !oo expensive to keep the system stu~ 10 • · up. Essentially, the cables were WRUC FM will broadcast all cut down every time an elm tree Union football games as well as was unscrupulously uprooted. (In any lectures or events which are addition . to the cable failure, signific~nt to th.e College WRUC did have some equipment commumty. malfunctions). The decision for All interested in WRUC are t~rminatio~ was important for it invited to visit the studios on the dtd not ra1se the expectations of second floor ·Of Carnegie. , , The PENNY PINCHER QUALITY CLe·THES- LOW PRICES U~ED BUT NOT ABUSED CURRENT STYLES 1122 ALT ~MONT AVE. (Eatranee llemk:e St.) Tueiday -. Saturday Ill-S Tbutsday's till 9 p.m. 356-%5'71 . admission process. There is a desire to improve admission standards for future classes and the college is continuing to wol'k .>-;'!~~ for a wider geographic range in its student body. ~resident Bo~mer concluded by sayt~g that w1th our six: year medical program, increased efforts. to -offer ·a good general education, the strengthening of the Arts and a host of other iml?rovements in the future, Unton can hope to establish itself as one of the best academic institutions in the nation. Save Money RUDNICK'S 308 State St. 372-6486 Headquarters for tee. and Levi Je~!! :\:fainter Pants, . Wori Boqts and P.ro Keds lowest · price .. on do\vn jaeke~ and vests r....-----~~-- ...... -:- .... I Fift~en (15) or more people I I -. students, faculty members, I I anyone ..... needed to form a . 1 gr~up interested in a pre- I 1 Christ(llas vacation trip to the 1. 1 1 S~viet U_,nion. . _ Dt!parture: 1 FradaY.. evening, Dec. 10, 1976. I I Return: Saturday, nee. _18. I I Total ALL-INCLUSIVE cost: I 1 $640. this trip to Leningrad~ I I Moscow and Helsinki will_ be I I pers~J1_ally escorted by Mrs. I . I NadJif Jernakoff. _ For further I ·. inforanation, hurryf - ·first I I deadlltle is O~tobedS. Cvptac_t I Mrs .. _ Jernakoffi in the .I I u.-m$nlties 81dg., Room liSA 1 I - Ext. 6240, or at home, te'i: 1 I 785·6780_. --------------J- Not an IDOL Call Well, summer is finally over, the Rathskellar is open, and I haven't missed a class yet. Everything is going very nicely thank you, but, I have this small problem. Beong the brand-new editor of the Idol Ma·gazineis not all a l>ed of roses by any name. The fringe benefits run mostly to making po~ters and writing Concordy articles. So the queston is: HoW to write an article for a campus newspaper wh.ich will i~terest peopl~ in thecampus literary magazme and writing workshop without revealing to the worl~ .any stylistic lapses, g~ammatical errors, or spelling shps? I mean, lis editors are supposed to be masters of the written language and all. Ther-e will he an organizational meeting of the Idol Magazme and Writing Workshop on Thursday, September 30, at 8:30 PM in Otrnegie 201. We will be looking for all you poe~s, writers, critics, layout perso1:1s and other literary types; H~wever, if you aren't a poet wnter, etc., don't let it bother you. ·come to the meeting anyway; you might find something interesting. lbe menu this week features a traditional Signing Away cf Your Life (at least until midterms), and The Raper cJf the Editors and other hard Core ldolators by disgruntled Creat_ive Writing Majors. .P :s. Any Qestiolls contact Piedmont 374-6307 cr 370-6124 .. Maurie:e· B •. Grau.bart &: Sons 'Setvin' -. . - I Union For Three Generations' ·_·t\JaySt. .QuiaiiiJ _s... FhW~- 'The Jay. St. Jeweler• -IJE-SHEL. .WALTER Driv' in Restaurant MAXON RD. & NOTT ST .. (Opposite Ramada Inn) i----------~---...----------\1 I - I 1 5 Hot Dogs I 1 w I our Special Meat Sauce I I I I 7 5 ~ off R:~~:e. I I EXPIRES OCTOBER 13!!! I 1·-------------------------·1 I 2 Hot Roast I I ·. · . . · - I 1 Beef on a roll or I t2 Hot Pastrami I II 50,.. ·off of Thel I Y Reg. Price. I. EXPIRES octoBER 131!! I ~----------\!\\'--------------4 I ~Supe.rBurgersl I .· 1 . . I 1 .or 2 (4 Bacon I I s· 0·\ . f f Of The . EXPIRES I I .Y 0 . Reg. Price OCT 13!!! .1 1-----------------------·J ·~ PLUS YOUR 10% OFF _·_WITH. UNION I. D. . . . _... ... -. . ' \ . •.

f • __ Page 12_ CONCORDIENSIS, Wednesday, Sept. 79, 1976 m .. . • .. = - Carlson Named Student Develop~J!ent Director -CCJiendar - A Relaxed Atmosphere Lab Theatre (DL T) has moved onto the 2nd floor of Carnegie. By HARRIS HALPERT During this past summer Craig Carlson (Union '70) was named Director of the newly-created Department of Student Development. He will also retain the title and responsibilities of his_ former position as ~ssistant Dean of Students. Carlson's new job entails many new and varied obligations.. The position was initially established because Dean of Students Mark Smith had too many duties and could not devote the. necessary time to each of them. Craig's responsibilities are spread over a wide range of areas, such as: Student Activities; · the volunteer and community' services program, fraternities, and new dorm programs. He has also worked extensively with this year's Resident Advisors. Student Staff Perhaps the most unique aspect of Carlson's new position is that students will be depended upon to do much of the work in carrying out the program he initiates. In fact, may of the programs will be initiated with the ·aid of student input. This system gives Carlson unlimited manpower if he can ·make the programs both intel)!sting and instructional to the student bQ<ltY. 1;'b1,1s; hi11 m.ain goal will be to stimulate the intelligence and creativity on campus that have heretofore been wasted. He hopes to generate interest in these areas by introducing new ways of presenting them to the students. One example mentioned was a karate demonstration in West in order to incite interest in that intramural program. Since last year there l,tave been important additions to the Center. Most obvious is the opening of the Pub last spring. Already it has been a great success, both financially and socially. Everyone anticipated that the Dutch Hollow would flourish. as a night spot. However, since many faculty patronize ,jt, the Pub has become a place where students and faculty can meet in a relaxed atmosphere. Also, this year the Director's Carlson already has plans to open a crafts room in the building in DL T's vacated room. The crafts room will contain such things as equipment , for pottery and ·weaving. Of COl!rse,. perhaps the biggest addition to Carnegie this year has been the constr.uction of Craig's own office on the first floor. The -office is always crowded with students but Craig swears that he still has time to get his work done. September .30 Women's Field Hockey Union vs. R.P.t, 4:00 p.m. at Alexander Field. Lively Lucy's Coffeehouse featuring .. Billy 'Novick,\ .progressive jazz trio. Adll}ission 50 cents for Skidmore Students, $1.00 for all others. Skidl)lore Hall Basement. 8:30 p.m. Hunted in Holland; a movie. will be shown at 4 p.m. at the Voorheesville Public Library. Hay Fever (Noel Coward) A play presented. ·by the JCA Players' at 8 p.m. at the Junior College of Albany, l40 New Scotland Ave., Albany, $1.50, $2.00. The play will run through Saturday. Coffeebouse Spencer Livingston blues, remorse, energy. Starts at 8:45, Eighth Step, 14 Willett St., Albany. 434- 1703. Coffeehouse ..., John Stanfield, folksinger, 8:30 p.m. Mother's Wine Emporium. R:enssel~er Union, RPI, Free, 270-6505. Fri. October 1 Coffeehouse - Peter Bellamy, British Ballads, 8:30, Caffe Lena, 47 Phila. St., Saratoga Springs, $2.50 cover, 1-584-9789 through Sunday. - Tom Mitchell and Company, original country, ~:30 p.m. Freeze-Dried Coffeehouse, Campus Center, Assembly f{all, SUNY, 1400 Washington Ave., Albany, 75 cents. 457-470 J. Through Saturday. Rural Free Delivery - wide variety; 8 p.m., Eighth Step, 14 Willett St., Albany, $1.50, $2.00, 439-1703. Through Saturday. Women's tennis, Union vs. Williams, 4 p.m., Home Courts. Rock Opera Godspell Cresce~t Si~sers a~ 8 ,p.m. at .t.he Guilderland Central High School. Gary Burton - Jazz ensemble. SAT. Oct.· 2 Sweet Honey in the Rock, 8:30, McNeil Room, Rensselaer Union, RPl, Troy, . $2.00, 270-6505. Varsity Football., Union vs. W PI, 1-:30 p.m., Alexander Field Film Committee: Play it Again Sam, SSOl6, 7, 8:45, 10;30 Saturday and Spnday. Fiji's Annual Casino Party, North Side of Fox: SUN. Oct. 3 Play It Again Sam, SS016~ 7, - 8:45, 10;30, .e_resented by .the Film Committee. Play Fair, 2:00p.m., afternoon <>f game playing on a non- competitive basis. Good fun. guaranteed! Skidmore field bouse. bt Cold Blood, film starring Robert Blake, 7:-30 p.m. Russell Sage College, Schacht Fine. 'Arts Center, Troy, 50 cents. 270-2332. MON. Oct. 4 The Graduate Department of city and Regional Planning of Cornell University is being represented by V. Wesley Boyar. He will meet with groups or individually from I 0:00 a.m. to noon. The Pladement office will give additional information and make appointments. Woman's Field Hock~y Union vs. Skidmore,. Heme, 4:00 p.m. Intellectual Cabaret featuring Prof. Gado and Provost Enteman. College Governance will be discussed. TUES. Oct. 5 Political forum Presents Ivan Boldizsar SS016. Film Committee Presents: Torn Curtain 7, 9:15, 11;.30, SSOJ61 Wed. Oct. 6 The continued development of Carnegie Hall as a student center will also occupy much of Carlson's time. The Student Center's rapid success has been very encouraging and Craig is se~king even more ways to improve it. Craig Carlson Director of Student Development. Green Mountain College Dining Room. Supper-Club setting. Tickets available at Green Pre·Heldth Fre~hman (Pre~ meds, Pre-Vets, Pre-dents an.d pre-opt) An informational meeting will be held in Butterfield 204 at 4:30 p.m. For ·more information contact Ben Rubin, Box 2551 or at 370•6545, · Call home. ... Tell Mom ou're alive . ' w1t ·out . killing your budget. You can tell yourfolks how life is going Without going in the red. Because a call to anywhere inN ew York State between llPM and 8AM costs only 32¢ or less for the first minute. Each additional minute costs only 21¢ or less. These terrific \Mighty Minute\ rates apply to intra- state station-to-station toll calls you dial yourself, Without operator assistance (they don~t apply to calls from coin phones). Ra.tes on out-of-state calls are also a bargain. So call home. Be kind to your mom and your budget. @New York Telephone Mountain's Student Activities office for $4.00 INN Erie Blvd.-Nott St . Sebenectacly 370-7151 · ··o·. UHION COll.lel M.:' lESTAlMAM.,.. .;, U « DUTCH HOLLOW PUB . EVERY SUNDAY NIGHT T ·~ . SMORGASBORD c 8dt!NEOTAErv.N~ ~ . . J-J V L L 0 \\'Something 11e:w this yea.-- for $3.95 you .get ·all you can eat and your choice of either a glass of beet or wine. It begins at 5:00 and ends at 7:30. On Thursday, Friday and Saturday nights, when there is waiter and waitress service, the Pub is serving a speeial Beef & Reef dinner. It consists of jumbo fried shrimp and sirloin steak for $4.25. For only $9.00 two Beef and Reef dinners will be served with a carate of wine. Special sandwiches will also be served- Hot Roast Beef - Hot Turkey - ~tnd a Triple Decker Turkey Club. For those who prefer just salad, they call have all they wish for $1.50, The Dutch Hollow Pub

\ CONCORDIENSJS, Wednesday, Sept. 29, 1976 Pagf 13 ' . , . \ . . .. • < ~ • < • ,L • \ ' ' • ' • - • 'Tile. Cla~sifiecJ:s Page- of the N~w CONCORDIENSJS is primarily a studim* se~i~e; as such, alii. :material submitted Will be published FitEE ()f charge. to insure that the items submitted are pdnte~t all copy MUST be in by Monday at 8:00PM. Items to be repeatetf must have the \INTRQ TO Contemporary Math\ text for sale. Goes for $·H in the Bookstore; wiU sell for $8. Barely used. Contact Barb Kaul, 302 Richmond, at 346- . number of runs specified. TJte Unlo11 Col~ge. CONCORDIENSIS assumes no responsibl~ty for typographical errors, hut will print a correction. If you want a ride, or you have something to .9212. Wan( to Dilike a fast buck? Tutors are needed .in all courses~ Contacu A.O.P. Office, Old Gym Hall, at (611~). · sell, or you simply w_ant t() se~ so~ething of your own printed up in a naajor world publication, , PLEASE, don't hesitate! This is a FREE service, so take advantage of it. If you wish to submit 1 · .. material which conforms to tlte format of the Classified! uA.,e, simply slip it under the Concordy · .. ~m«:e door (3rd ftoor C~t~~egi~) or give to· T:_o~. Mill~r, 224 West. · Volunteers are •needed for tutoring mini- courses, athletics, etc. Please contact Sister Patricia Brennan, Principal, St. John the Evangelist School, 806 Union St. Students needed for noon.-tim·e supervision of c:hildren. Small remuneration. Please contact S istet Patricia Brennan, Principal, St. John the Evangelist, 806 Union St. Attention aJI. pi'I!·Health seniors: please save all your catalogues. The Pre•Health Society is ttying tQ start a current collection of health-oriented graduate school catalogues. Please give them to Ben Rubin, 170 Davidson. Attention all seniors, who ~ in the future - will being going for he:!lth profession interviews. I( you are interested in meeting with a Union College Alunmus at that school prior to your interview, please contact Ben Rubin, Pre-Health Society; Box 2551. John Jessup, Coordinator for College Venture Progrl.\m, will be available fo.r personal interviews on Thursday, Oct. 7 from 1 p.m. - 5 p.m. and Friday, Oct. 8 (rom 9-5 p.m. Sign up in the_ placement office. Grant-in-aid position vacan~y , in the Athletic Dept. working for the athletic trainer. Job entails taping and traveling with various athletic teams, Position title: \Student Athletic Trainer.\ Must be eligible for grant-in-aid. First aid and previous experience desired, but not essential. If interested, contact Jolin Alden in the Alumni Gym, at 370-6284. ALL STUDENTS except fre1>hm~:n and transfers receiving financial aid from Grant\ In-Aid, College Work-Study, or Board Jobs who have not secured their jobs from the Placement Office by Wed., Oct. 6 will be forfeiting their jobs for the fall term to other interested students. !'lext week, Oct, 6 at 4:30 p.m. there will be a meeting for ali freshmen interested in pursuing a caree~ in. the health sciences. If you are interested in medicine, veterinary medicine, dentistry, optometry; etc., this meeting is for you. It will take ,place in 204 ,Butterfield. Prof. R()th will lead the discussion. For further information contact Ben Rubin at 370.6545. Attention to all those interested: in the game of diplomacy. When Diplomacy. Fails would like to collect some people to play a long•tange game over the course of the term. If you like international· intrigue and can afford 20 minutes a week, this .is · your thing. Contact Chuck Hollem!!n, 202 Potter House, or Greg Scott, 423 South. There will be a Pre-Law Society meeting Thursday, Sept. 30, at 4:30 p.m. in the Strauss Lounge. Come by and see what the Society is all about. Bring suggestions. and ideas~ Fi5FJ r RIDES OFFERED anywhere between Kingston and Liberty; allJ weekend. Contact Roy at 374-9l6.5. RIDES NEEDED to the Philadelphia area. Fri., 10/8 or Sat., 10/9. Call Pete at 370-6541. ~liD~~~ ~ ~lffiillil . AUTHENTIC MEXICAN FOOD - FULL MEALS FROJI VARIOUS REGIONS·' · OFMEXICO FRI. NITE - Enchiladas de mole Usual TacoMenu Every Day!!! VegetariansAccomodated .......... . .•.......•......... Eat In or Take Out SEPTEMBER IS MEXICAN INDEPENDENCE . . MONTH COME IN FOR AN EXTRA•SPECIAL TASTE TREAT ---------------------~------ 1098 Madison Ave. (near jet w/WesternAve.l. ... Albany. NY Phone 489 · 7990 ~·THURS. TIL 9pm. FRI TIL lOpm SATURC\1\Y 3·10. SUNO<\Y 4·9. •* .... ;. ............... ~-- ........................ - \ ... \\ .... \' ... \' ,. lit-,..... ... 110. ,., ... ...,. \\ .... _ \'- ~ ........... ~ - - • RIDE WANTED to the Flushing or LI area, Sun., 10/3 returning Mon:, 10/4. Contact Audrey, 112 Davidson, at 370- 6697. &IDE WANTED to the University of Pennsylv~nia and back for October 15-17 or 29-31. Am wil!ing to .share gas, tqlls :~nd <!riving. Call Elizabeth Di11nel Iseman at . 37()-~93. RIDE NEEDED <!aily fr.om Albany to Schenectady (Union) around 8 a.m. and• back around 4 p.m. Will share all gas apd tolls. Call immediately. Elizabeth. Dione! Iseman, at 370o.6693. RIDE WANTED to Steven's Tech. (Hoboken, NJ); or Port Authority (NYC) for Fri., 10/1 . Will share expenses. Call Lizat6522. RIDE WANTED to Nassau County. Fri., 10/1 after 10:30 a.m. Contact nave, 230 West. Will gladly share expenses. RID~ WANTED to LI, Queens, ot NYC. Fri., 10/1 - Mon., 10/4. Will share expenses. PU:ase contact Mike Weiner, 205 Potter House, .at 6624. 'RIDE NEED]l:D ~o New York City, Fri., 10/1. Will share expenses Contact Amy, 303 West. IMPORT ANT! Return ride needed Sun .. {0/10 to SUNY at Cortland.\ Will shan · expenses. Contact Kevin, 220 West, at 346· · 9639 or centrex 6143. RIDE NEEDED to Boston. Fri. 10/1 after J:I:30 a.m. Will share expenses. Call Robin, 118 Davidson, at 6698. • Guitar Lessons Call Leslie Goldstein at 370..3039 and ask him to teach you traditional and· contemporary. guitar playing in private one•hour lessons·. He'll say yes! Typing: 50¢ per page. Fast! Accurate! Reliable! CalliH>~~ss46. BOOK WANTED Economics (Samuelson, 9th. or lOth ed.). See Dave, 203 Edwards House, or call at 382-8673. FOR: SALE: Couch. 7 feet long. $30. Call 370-5836 FOR SALE: VW bug (1969). Excellent condition. Call346-0579, FOR SALE: Kenwood KR - 4400 re~eiver. 25 watts RMS pet channel. Excellent condition. $170 or best offer. Call.370-6548. _ BOOKS for sale. (I) FE-22 (Introduction RIDE 1ornEi>ED· td New york or ·New to Sociology): Tally's €orner (Liebow) - Brunswick, NJ, 10/9 after 11:3() a.m. $1.40; De1'iants (Simmons) - $1.50; The Contact Johnathan Stein 258 Davisdon Uses of Disorder (Sennett) - $1; Sex, Box t662~ · · ' ' Gender and Society (Qal\:le~).-:; ~1.50. (2) Physics II and 13; Physics for the Life Sciences (Cramer) - $9. Contact Terry, 107 Webster House, at 346-9426. THE SCH'DY SHORIN RYU KARATE CLUB located 1141 Catalyn St. Accepting applications, for information, 372- 6848. Holding classes for children. Also classes in self-defense for women. I·- AJcur Liquor 'center Liquors~ Wines - Cordials . 751~ EASTERN AVE. CORNER JACKSON LOWEST PRICES ALLOWED IN N.Y. STAT.,E ctass Silo-dance_· •iday·cet Ia ••· ~-~~~ . with this ad .Uto Ka)'derosa SARATOGA IPJuNGS . -~--- ... -~---------- Right now, up until Oct. 31st, you can fly roundtrip from New Yor~ to Lux em bourg for only $360. That's $106less than the youth fare you'd pay on any other scheduled airline. (From Chicago you pay $401 and save $113.) All you have to do is be under the age of24. There are no booking restrictions. And no skimping on meals or service. Because we give you the same service you'd get from other airlines; without the same high costs. So, if you're planning on Europe, fly with us on Icelandic. We'll give you more than the lowest youth fares. We'll give you the best deal. See your travel agent or write to Icelandic Airlines Dept. # CN, 630 Fifth Avenue. NY, NY 10020. Or call toll free: (BOO) 555-1212. Fares subject to change. Save 8 106 on jet fares to Europe and book anytime you want. Icelandic LOWEST JET FARES TO EUROPE OF ANY SCHEDULED AIRLINE. i BOOKS! (1) Motivation and Pei'Sonality (Maslow). List price: $9.95. My cost: $8.95. Yours for $5. (\like new\ condition). (2) Chemical Principles (Runquist, Creswell and Head). My cost: $14.95. Yours for $10. (also like new). See or ca!J. Bill; 420 West, at 346-9491 Terry - Thanks for the masthead. M & H. MSM- Youownmyheart.HL Happy Birthday Joe. Aren't you glad that we are not singing it in West? Love, 112 and 223 Davidson . Happy very Belated Birthday Cari M. We love you anyway. Love, Marietta, Max, Scrub, Francesca, Katie & the gang. Young lady who lost money last term: see Mr. Deacon in the Administration Building. · Wanted: empathetic, caring people to man a talk line. The purpose of this talk line is to provide an understanding and compas- sionate listener for students who feel the need to talk to someone. Anyone interested please contact: Adie Carlyle (6428) or Craig Carlson (6061). Sick of SAGA! Come eat with or wait for us. Alpha Deta Phi; 346-9688. Ask for Chuck or Tony. Wanted: 3S qualified instructors certified by the N.G.C. (National Gerbil Commission) to train gerbil fighter pilots. If interested, contact any ·representative of: War Dogs for Peace. Wanted: real personals so the Classifieds Editor won't have to keep on making up lame personals just to take up ftller space. A BIG congtatulations and thank you to the bookstore for finally getting tam pax!! Happy Birthday Super Scrub! Hope this year's twice as good as last -. Ma, Marietta and the Gang. Michael H. - Happy Birthday from your, 3 favorite insultees. B, M and C. PS we love you anyway. ARE YOU A MIDGET? Lover? fve got a 1971 MG Midget for sale; clean, 47,000 miles, new brakes, top in excellent shape. rm gonna miss it! Call me at 482·8990 before 6 or 458·7102 after 6. Ace Ca-rds & Gifts 175 JAY STREET SCHENECTADY 372-2008 / PAWPRINTS- GORDON FRASER IMAGES & MEMO BOARDS International Relations Club WILL PRESENT Mr. Henry Hooper OCT. 7 THURS., SS016 FROM THE RHODESIAN INFO. OFFICE IN WASHINGTON He will discuss the present South African situation and the Rhodesian govern· ment's policies. For further information contact Keith Edwards.

'I '· t CONCORIDENS/S,· Wednesday;. Sept. 29,. 1976 U.nion Unveils· 24 Game Hockey Schedule Union College's hockey team will face a 24-game schedule this wjnter that reflects the team's meteoric rise. The inclusion of four eastern Division I · schools, a major midwestern team, the powers of have his team facing such Division II powers as Merrimack, Oswego State, Salem State, the University of Buffalo and Colby. The first four teams formed half on the eighHeam field in the Division II playoffs. Merrimack was the only college team to defeat Union on the ice during the regular season last year. Queens University of Ontario. The two-night Holiday Festival Tournament will h&ve Guelph facing Western Ontario at 7 p.m. and Ohio State meeting Union at 9 p.m. On the followin~ night the two winners meet for the inaugural championship, preceded by a consolation game. right winger from Fitchburg, Mass., one of the ·most sought- after collegiate prospects this year. coached at· Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute; - and Jim Anderson, a forward from West Spring£ield, Mass., whose father Jim, Senior, was coach of the Washington Capitols of the NHL. '~Bivision II and the cream of Canadian college teams. is also an indiction of the confidence Head Coach Ned Harkness has in the 1976-77 edition of the skating Dutchmen. Union's Divison I opposition this year will come from New Hampshire, always a formidable hockey foe, the N.orth Country's major pair of St. Lawrence and Clarkson, and Northeastern. The Dutchmen will have Ohio State University from the Central Collegiate Hockey Association skating in the Union Holiday Festival Tournament, Dec. 29 and 30. Other festival participants are the University of Guelph (Ont.) and Western Ontario University. Union will be out to defend its Western title in Division II again this year. The Dutchmen, with an all-freshman team, skated to a Divisional record of . 13-l last winter, good enough to earn them selection to the post-season playoffs - another first for an all-frosh contingent. This year Coach Harkness will As for Colby, Harkness expects new Coach Jack Kelly to have his Mules in the thick of divisional championship play. from the opening game. The Dutchmen have also added· traditional foe Williams College to their schedule for a single game this year. Gone are all Division III opponents. Plattsburgh State, which was a Division III school last year, has moved up to Division II and will play a home and home series with the Dutchmen. Other home and home Division II series are scheduled v.:ith Buffalo and Oswego State: . From across the border, Union will draw - along with Guelph and Western Ontario ~ the University of Ottawa and McGill University, both of which produced exciting contests last year in Schenectady; the University of Waterloo and ·said Ha.rkness of the schedule; \It's a supercschedule; we're taking on sgme of the toughest Division I teams and the same goes for our Divison II opposition. The Canadian schools we've scheduled are all good they;ll given us the best m competition.\ Playet•Wise, Harkness will greet all 22 lettermen from last year's freshman team when practice begins - only this time they'll all be sophomores. But Union will have a sizeable · ·\platoon\ of new· freshmen coming on campus in September. Despite the fact the Dutchmen were defeated only twice on the ice last season (Merrimack and West Point) in 23 collegiate starts, . Harkness saw room for improvement and hopefully the newcomers will provide the additional strength. One of the top prospects is Charles Pappas, a 6-2, 215 pound Harkne~s noted, \Pappas will give us some right wing punch that we lacked last winter.\ Other forwards, who will be candidates for varsity positions, are Mark Haley, of Boston, 5-10, 175 pounds, who played at la.ft School in Connecticut; Doug Feasby, 5-10, 175 pounds from Stouffville, Ont., and Dean Willers, 5-Il, 180 pounds from Toronto, both Metro Junior A players; Dave Currie, 5-10; 180 pounds from Toronto; Peter Crawford, 5-11, 175 pounds from Belleville, Ont. To beef up the defense Harkness is counting on Tom O'Rear, six feet, 185 poun<;is from Novi, Mich., who played for Kimball Union Academy and Scott Stupinski of Boston, Mass., a 6-1, 195 pound player from Archbishop Williams High School, which provided Union with several fine players in its inaugural hockey year. Other pr.ospects include David Josephson, a goalie from Guelph, who is a nephew of Jim Josephson, one of Harkness' All- America players wh.en Ned Although season tickets 'have long been sold out, Harkness, as director of Achilles Rink noted that several games, which will be played during college recesses, wili have more than the usual number of game tickets available. This .is especially true of the Holiday Fes.tival, where a large number ·of the doubleheader tickets will go on sale . to the general public. The schedule is as follows: NOV. 13 and 27, Intra-squad games; DEC. I Northeastern at Boston, Mass.; Dec. 4 McMaster; Dec. II Boston State; 14 Oswego State; 18 Ot~awa; 22 McGill; 29, 30 Union Holiday Festival; JAN. 4 Colby, 8 Bryant; I I at Buffalo; 15 Waterloo; 22 Clarkson. at Potsdam; 25 Plattsburgh; 28 New Hampshire; FEB. ·1 at Salem State; 5 Buffalo; 9 Williams; 12 at Plattsburgh; 15 at Elmira; 19 Queens, Ortt.; 22 St. Lawrence at Canton; 25 Merrimack; MAR. I at Oswego State. Ruggers Notch First Victor,y Tri-Captain Jim Manning with penalty kick vs. Colgate : ?- ,q ·-li'. ~. Intramurals- Phys~ Ed. Calendar. FALL PHYSICAL EDUCATION ACTIVITY CALENDAR ~ > - 7.;,. \~ '. ACTIVlTI INSTRUCTOR . . '-'~ ~ ·, '· · •IOOATION .. t ' . '· • ·- ~ . \' A Archery TBA Open Open Daley Field Bowling TEA Open Open TEA Boxi.ng TEA Open Open Alumni Gym Canoeing TEA Open Open Alumni Gym . Fencing Scott T & Th · 3: JOFM Alumni Gym Golf' Scanlon 'r & Th 3: JO!'M Alumni Gym Gymnastics Campbell T & Tlr 7:00PM Alumni Gy.n· HorEeback Riding Paparcki Open Open Triple-A-Farm Joggi.ng Driscoll M!iW 4:30PM Alumni 'Gym Judo. Antin M&W 7:00PM AjJ.umni Gym Beginning Karate Clark T & Th 7:00l'M Alumni Gym Advar~~:ed Karate Clark T & Th 7•00PM Alumr.i Gym ' ModernDa~o Catellie M&W 4:30PM Atts Building Boginnins; 3><i;~., ~ ne Ha, .. e,, · M & ~I 1:00PM Alumni Gym Intermediate Swimming &gee ,, T & 'fh 1:00PM Alumni eJym • Senior Life Saving Magee T & Th 1:00PM Alumni Gym Beginning Tenni·s Kerr T & Th 1: 301\1 Main Courts Intermediate Tennis Kerr M&W lOoJOtM Main Courts .Advanced Tennis TBA TBA TBA Main Courts Trimnasti.cs TEA TEA Till, Alumni Gym Table Tennis Lee Open Open !>ieldhouse SOcial Dance AlWnru Gym i,e. Hustle etCe Cunningham T & Th 3:30l'M Physical Condil.ioning Program Harkness TEA TEA TPA Platform Tennis Car lao~ TBA TEA TBA Yo{!i' Frenkel TBA TBA TBA Beginning Hockey Driscoll T & Th lO:JOAM Achilles Rink Advanced Hockey Driscoll M&W&F 11: JOAM Achilles Rink Beginning Skating Driscoll M & W & F I O:OOAM Achilles Rink Beginning Figure Skating Port in Advanced Figure T & Th 11: JCAY. Achilles Rink Achilles Rink Skating M&W&F lO:JOPM Curling Breintenfl eld T & Th 3:30PM Achilles Rink CU!'ling Breintenfi'eld M & W & F J:JOFM Achilles Rink Weight Train, & Cond. Oriscoll T & Th 4:JOPII Altlllllli Gym Scuba Diving Chastney Tues. 7:00Pii Alumni Gym Total Fit. for Women T & Th 11:JOAM ~ 0 TBA 0 0 0 0 0 6o.OQ 0 llO,OO 10,00 20.00 40,00 0 0 0 0 6 0 0 0 0 0 0 )0,00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 30.00 All Physical Education f,Ctivity classes Will run for eight >teeks unless otherwise specified by Lhe instructor. Classes Will begin the second week of the semester (September 27) and end the next to last week of the semester (December 3). For mo~e infomation call )71-'119, by DEBBiE KAUFMAN Last Saturday a record crowd lined the field as Union's Fifteen opened the season with a 21-13 victory over Hartwick. Led by Tom Flynn, Vince Verdile, and Chip Fenn, the Rugge'rs controlled the match for the entire 90 minutes. Leading 7-4 at the half, the Garnet pulled the game out of Hartwick's reach with a strong second half; outscoring their opponents. 14-9. John Andrews opened the scoring with a five yard run early in the first half. The score was set up by the steady serum play which consistently left Union in possession of the ball. With only seconds left in the half, Burt Slavin booted a twenty-five yatd penalty kick through the uprights to give UOion a 7-4 lead at the break. The Union line continued to dominate play in the second half and was largely responsible for keeping the ball on Hartwick's side of the field. Tom Flynn, who played outstandint ball throughout the game, was rewarded for his efforts when he shared the first score in the second half with Vince Verdile. Minutes later Verdile picked up the ball as it bounced in Hartwick's end zone and put it down for another try. Leading 15 .. 7, th~ Union Ruggers fQund time Fl li' l'ntramurals- A'ctivity Calendar Type Or g. Actfv~y .. Compelition . !lntries Due Meeting 11-Man Fla& Football League {Round Robin) ., .. ~~1?!.- 23 . . 7 p.m., S.ep,t, :S 6-Mau Hag Football League (Round Robin) Sept. 23 8 p.m., !!ept. Z3 Mini Soem League (Round Robin) · Sept. 27 7 p.m., Sept. 27 3-Man BulfetbaU League (Round Robin) Sept. 29 7 p.m., Sept. W Ice Hci\!key League (·Round ftobin) Sept. 30 8 p.m., Sept. 30 Golf Sin111e Ellm. (Singles). Sept. 30 7 p.m.; Sept• 30 Tennis Ladder (Doubles) O~t. 1 Platform Tenl1is Sih1le Elfm. (Doubles) Oct. 6 Table T'ennJs. Single 'Eiim. (Doubles) Oct. l2 Cri!IS Count•y Run Spedal Event oct. 21 Pocket ·Pool Sinefe Elim. (Singles) Oct •. 27 Badminton Single Ellm. (Singles) Nov. 10 FoosbaU Single Elim. (Ooubies) Nov. 3 FouiShoc1in1 Single Elim. (Singles) Nov. IS 1976- WOMEN'S INTRAM~RAL ACTIVITY CALBNDAR- 1977 FALL sEMESTER Type Org. Activliy Competition Entries Due Meeting . . . . I League (Round Robin) Sept. 27 8 p.m., Sept. 27 8-Women Flag Football Mini Soccer League (Round· Robin) Sept, 28 7 p.m., Sept. 28 Volleyball teague (Round Robin) Sept. 29 8 p.m., Sept. 29 Golf Single Ellm. (Singles) Sept. 30 7 p;m,, Sept. 30 Tennis Ladder (Singles) Oct. 1' Ice HO(key League (Round Robin) Oct. 4 7 p.m., Oct. 4 Platform Tennis Single Elim. (Doubles) Oct. 4 Table Tennls Single Ellm. (Singles) Oct. ll Cri!IS Country Ron Specl~l Event Oct. 21 Badmiplon Single Elim. (;Singles) Nov • .tO Fool ShooH~1 Single Elim. (Singles) Nov. IS Play B~girllj !>ept. 27 Sept. 1;7 Sept. 29 Oct. 4 Oct. 4 Oct. 2&3 Oct. 4 Oct. 7 Od.13&14 Oct,22 Oct, 28 Nov. 11 No.v.4 Nov; 16 Plny8egins Sept. 29 Sepl. 30 Oet. 4 Oct. ~3 Oct. 4 Oct. 6 Oct. 5 Oct. 12 Oct. 22 Nov. ll NoV.. 16 to relax; allowing Hartwick two penalty kicks late in the second half. Taylor took the ball in for the final score of the game with just one minute left and Slavin's kick for the extra points made the score at the gun 21-13. With its very strong freshman turnout this year, the Ruggers, under Captain Dave Dimarco, expect to equal or better last Fa:Irs record making 7~1-l season. This Saturday pits Unionagainst Shaef.er Tournament \B\ Champions, Kingston,· in what should prove to be an exciting game. INTELLECTUAL CABARET BiD Enteman, Frank GadQ, and Jim Trump will discuss \Campus Governance- It's not MY job\ • Monday, October 4 .at 8:30 pni in Cabaret Room. ARE YOU . TIRED OF NOT BEING ABLE TO GET the phone number of another student? You say you want to be involved in something? Well, walk, talk, or dial a phone, etc. read this. We are attempting to put together a campus phone directory. Please help. Contact Brian Heaps at 370- 6427 ...

,I e e r t ' j ' CONCORDIENSIS,. Wednesdq.y, Sept 29, 197_6 • .• . ' - . ~ ' -t \ ' . . . - . . .· ... • - \ \ Page l:J. Uinion Drops ·To Bates SOccer '76. . . . By LANCE BOJJROW Union College opened its 1976 football seasoh an a rather dismal note by bowing to Bates by a score of 42~19. Bates piled up a 28-0 lead before Union put any points on the scoreboard and by that time it was. too little as well ' as too late. In fact, Bates had thi~ lead hefore the Union offense - could even muster a sirtgle l'irst pass.i ng of sop ho mote down. quarterback Andy Terran()va Nick Dell-Erario openeq the . which created any excitement for scoring for Bates with a 10 yard Union in the game. Fir.st run., This was followed by Terranova bit John Kennedy touchd<:>wn runs Qf 67 and 8 yards from 21 yards out to narrow the by Marcus Bruce who had 120 ·deficit to 28-7 at halftime. Early ya.rds rushing in the first half_ ; in the second half, safety Tom alone. Gary Pugatch then dove Hood intercepted a Bates pass over from the 1-yaFd line to give and returned it to midfield. Bates its cozy 28 point advantage. However, a fumble at the Bates 39 killed that drive and whatever On the Union· side of the chance Union may have had of ledger, it was the sl)tamblirng and getting back into the game. Gridders staunch in their preparation for :W.P.l. credit: Tony Rom~nazzi Veterans Carry L·oad for X-C-men .... By STAN WISKOSKI • Prof. T.A. Bick, Math Dept., Dolan, Lawson, Vidkind, Union College, having taken on Bourgeous, Hersey. the cross-country coaching Wiskoski, elected captain for responsibilities at the end of the this year by last year's members, 1971 season, broUght his runners is running very well, and, in the back again this Fall ·for pre- last time trial passed through the season training (Sept. 13-21). In 2 and 3-mile points in his fastest his first full season as coach times ever f<:>r those two distances; (1972}, Bick implemented this his time over the course has invaluabJe training session, where dropped over 2\12 minutes since the boys would return about 1 the first time trial. trial. He is a relaxed, calm, worry-free runner, · who, obviously, is rapidly improving. The adjustment to 5 miles for a freshman is not always a ·simple affair. Tom Bourgeous likes to run longer races · than 5 .miles (marathons, 15, 13, · lO•mile races!) but is stepping down again this fall .to run the short 5 with us. Howard Hersey has to be admired for the simple reason that he showed :up one day and ran a 10-miler with 1.1s, a distance Union's second touchdown was scored on a t~yard dive by. freshman fuliback Dou.g Napa<lano. The big play in that drive was a 42 yard connection between Terranova and Bob Mathias. At thl$ point, Union's defense began to assert itself by stei>pping Bates twice inside the Dutchman 20. Union then put together a textbook 80 yard drive with the final 13 yards coming on a strike from Terranova to freshman tight end Kevin Eberly. The big play in this drive was a 44 yard hookup between Terranova and Mathias. Terranova finished 10 for 24 in passing for 202 ya·rds. It is hard to remember the last time a Union gridder passed for over 200 yards in a game. Bah Mathias proved to be a big play threat as he caught three passes good for 121 yards. Union's home opener will be this Saturday against the gentlemen from far off Worcester Poly Tech on Alexander Field. Stop by and root for your Dutchmen. Perhaps the tide will ebb for the better. Summary Bates 15 13 7 7 - 42 Union • 0 7 6 6 - 19 B - Dell-Erario 10 run (Olsen run) _ ~ 8 _: Bruce 6i run (Dell-Etario kick) B - Bruce 8 run. (kick failed) :S - Pugatch 1 .fun (Sommers kick) U - Kennedy 21 pass from Terranova (Hamblet kick) B - Burhoe 53 pass - trotn Olsen (Dell-Erario kick) u - Napad.ano ·i·-·niri (run- By SCOTT HEILBRUNN . The Union Soccer team takes the field for its first game on Wednesday, Sept. 29~ Many of the individuals that helped to achieve last years 12 and 2 season that culminated in the Upper New York State ECAC championship will be absent from the line up. Eleven seniots, including such outstqnding stars as All-American Craig Jeffries, All New York State John Denio, and goalie Chris Huben will be sorely missed as the Garnet booters face their most difficult schedule in recent years. Faced with these lo~ses Coach Magee has spent much of the last 3 weeks fashioning a team that has tbe twin qualities of talent and pride, a trademark that has accompanied Magee's tenure as coach. Returning for another varsity season are such tested ball players as .Jim Manning, George Garivaltis, Parker Antin aqd·· Mike Smith. Joining these lUe a host of freshmen whose abilities should blend well with the experienced core of returning lettermen. A key to the qualitative aspects of the team was made available when viewing the preseason scrimmages. Winning three out of the four contests, the only toss coming at the hands of a well-coordinated Army squad, the varsity eleven performed with both precision and poise. This was a .remarkable feat considering failed) _ U - Eberly i 3 pass Terranova {pass failed) from all 4 contests were <;oncluded prior to the time that the second week of practice had ended. B - Denegre 20 pass from Laurie (I>ell-Erario Kick) STATISTICS · First Downs Rushing Yds. Pa~sing Yds. • Total Yds.· Passes Punts Fumbles Lost Yards Penalized Union 14 64 202 266 10-27-1 10.;36 1 85 Bates 26 337 222 559 14-22-1 2\46 2 83 The team will be tested for real a.t Williams Whete it faces a well disciplined and aggressive team. The ·record with the clUb from Williamstown, Mass., stands even at 3. and 3. The game should prove to be exciting and although early in the season many feel it to , · be one that the Dutchmen must win: All support offered to the t~am by those hardy souls that can make the trip will ~e 'appreciated. Thus, the quest for a second straight championsltip is about to begin. Good luck this season. week early to run 2 and 3 Scheuer ran all summer in workouts a day. The affair has track meets, doing a lot ·of always been a \learning\ winning in 1-mile races, and the exl'erience: recently a graduated super middle distance man of runner told me how his w,eekly track last year (as a freshinan) has mileage jumped from · O-H8, adjusted well, an<l will continue beginning with the pre-season adjusting to the 5-mile X.-C week. This year's session, which distance. he wasn't quite used to yet. ·.-\' 1f.. lf. Jf.. ~ )f. ¥11-1 1f.. ¥ ... ¥ ......... ¥¥¥ ... .f.¥ · Thig year's course itself has started Bick's fifth season as It is a joy to see Pete Petit back . coach, was a vast improvement an.d running himself into·· shape over all previous seasons, mainly this fall, since a rather serious, because for the first time - as an.d disheartening injury took him was always the case with football out of the end of X-C and both and soccer - the runners' meals track seasons last year. were paid for by the college. Bob Moffat, ranked This year's pre-season was unofficially as the second fastest blessed with the presence .of Tom division Ill 600 yd. run man il). Bourgeous ('77), Stan Wiskoski the nation, is also adjusting to the ('77), Bob Moffat- ('78), Tom 5, and is healthy. Rumor has. it he Lawson .('78), Marty Dolan ('79), is quite strong running the final Pete Petit ('79), Kevin Scheuer half mile or so of a race. l wonder ('79) and Peter Vielkind ('80). why? Freshman Howie Hersey was a Marty· Oolan tellS me he's been \walk-on\ arriving for the tail end running steadily all summer. of the session. John Farrell ('78), Marty is a good, strong finisher injured, showed up mid-way to do from whom ·we expect steady some light jogging, and is also art improvement. appreciated member of the tearn. Tom Lawson has been running Chuckie Assini, a junior, came to through the summer. Although he r.un from the outset, but was has been bothered by an injury forced to stop because of krtee thus far, we hope to have him problems. . doing some good running for us, 'The order of runners thus far, as I know he is capable. according to the most recent time Pete Vielkind, a local kid from trial (Saturday) is as fol:lows: Mont Pleasant, lowered his time Wiskoski, Scheuer, Petit, Moffat, some 4'12 minutes at the last time been simplified as a result of complaints from opposing runners and coaches,. and measutes 5;0 miles, as opposed to last year's 5.25. (All you ''Jonsey\ Denio Returns fans can rest assured that his reconl will never be broken!) SCHENECTADY John Union's first meet was Tuesday, . Denio, considered one ·of Union Sept. 28; at ~ Siena, vs Siena. and' · College•s all-time bask~tball and Oneonta. State; the next meet will soccer stars, has been appointed . be at Hamilton, Oct. 6., when X-C freshman soccer coach for the will ride the bus w:ith soccer. · Dutchmen. A happy sign tltis year is that The appointment of the 1976 the second through ruth men grad was announced by Athletic came in within 33 seconds ·of each Director Thomas R. Kershner. other last Saturday. Look for us Denio, who was selected on the to take RPI t:his year at home AU-New York State soccer team coming; they took u·s at theirs last during his four-year career as a year,\'-llnd well, after all, it's only bootet, is second only to All- fait that we . . . American teammate Craig Jeffries POOL SCHEDULE Mon.: 11:30-t, 2:30·3:30, 7·10 Tues .. : 11:30·1:30; 2:30;..3:30, 7-10 Wed.: 11:30-1:30, 2:30-3:30, 7·10 Thurs~: 11:30-1; 2:30-3:30, 1-10 Fri.: 11:30•1:30, 2:.30-3:30, 7-10 Sat.: 12-4,· 7:30·9:30 Sun.: 1:30-4:30 in season and career scoring at Union. Denio and Jeffries paced Union to a 12-2 soccer record last fallj in¢luding the championship of the Upstate New York ECAC ·rournament. In addition, the resident of Melrose,. N, Y., played four years of varsity basketball, was second highest scorer for the 17-6 cagers this .past season, and was selected. to :theECAC all-star squad at the c<:>nclusion of his senior year. In July, Denio received the Jaffe Award, as Union College 1 s outstanding athlete for 1976. In announcing the appointment, Prof. Kershner said the acquisition of Denio would .further enhance the future of Union's soccer program, which has been a winning one under Head Coach Bob Magee. Coach Magee said he was \delighted\ at the appointment of one of his star pupils. The frosh play a seven-game schedule this fan, opening at Williams College. The Schedule: Sept. 29 at Williams, Oct. 6 at RPI, Oct. 9 Albany State, Oct. 16 RPl, Oct. 20 at Siena; Oct. 23 at Albany State, Oct. 30 Middlebury.

t Debates ' fr~m P11ge 3 adopted a very staid, almost ~t.oic approach. Mr. Ford appealeq to the upper and broad middle class with his programs and by suggesting that Mr. Carter, if elected, will ruin the economy. The president was speaking to the employed, those upset over taxes and· inflation, and to those people who still share the American Dream of moving up the financial ladder. Mr. Carter, while trying to woo big business interests without whose support a president cannot be elected today, spoke to the unemploye~, those who are worried about the job market, and the people who are tired of corporate tax benefits. In the realm of American politics, however, there are numerous methods of measuring victory. Regardless of · all academic and other factors, the most important variable in terms of voting (the ultimate guage of success) is party identification. Mr. Ford needs all of the Republican vote, a large perce-ntage of the independents, and some of the Democratic vote; Mr. Carter needs to .get out the Democratic vote and capture a reasonable percentage of the · independents. The Democratic projects, if the Democrats mobilize and work for Carter, their candidate, with or without the debates, he can win. Personally, barring a major blunder by Mr. Carter or a surprising show by Eugene McCarthyj .1 cannot foresee anything· but a Ca.rter victory. Wa_y ·We Were Makes TV Debut 1J movie to b.e shown Oct. 3 SCHENECTADY - The Robert Redford and Barbra Streisand movie, \The Way We Were,\ much of which was filmed on the Union College campus, will make its television premiere on the ABC Sunday Night Movie Oct. 3. It will be broadcast locally on Channel l3 at 9 p.m. . The campus scenes of the film, which was nominated for 3 Academy Awards, were shot on the Jlnion College campus over .a 2-week period in early fall of 1972. Hundreds of students and residents of the local a~:ea were hired as extras for the picture. The film deals with the college acquaintance, World War II romance, and McCarthy-era marriage of a radical Jewish coed (played by Streisand) and a handsome conservative writer yearning for success in Hollywood (played by Redford). The period of the scenes filmed on the Union campus is 1937. Union was chosen as the site, for the campus scenes ,primarily for its old buildings. Its Alumni Gym, built in 1915., proved ideal for a 1937 senior prom. Andrew Carnegie Hall, constructed in 1910, was used for filming some of the film's classroom scenes. The film's director, Sidney Pollock, was pleased with the campus scenes and shifted a number of sequences scheduled for other locations to the campus. These inci~Jded a sorority scene set in the upper lounge of Hale House, and a library sequence set in the Old Chapel. The Nott Memorial is the site in the film of a large rally protesting the Spanish Civil War. Some 750 extras were involved in that scene, of which about 250 were Union students. Additiona' sequences for the film. a. Columbia Picture and Rastar Production presentation, were shot in Ballston Spa, Pittsfield, Mass., New York City, and Hollywood. . . .. ~.9f)NCqfl;Dlfi:N_~!S, ~Wed.ne~d~y, S.ept 29, 197.6 . . . . .. _,_ . SELECTION OF

