on gh oy he pn 14 es or tie y- in p. of to al IO 4 8 10 6 p 2 6 2 8 Pts 57 49 40 40 32 30 27 26 . • unton colle,ge· . . .... Vol. 105, No.17 W~dnesday, April 7, 19'76 • • on cor tensts ~andidate Carter brings campaign to Chapel Campaign '76 came to Union College last Friday afternoon as Jimmy Carter addressed a frieild·ly crowd of 1200 in Memorial ChapeL Carter began by recalling that, as a young naval officer, he took advanced courses in physics and mathematics on the lJnion campus,. which he said .. is possibly one of the most beautiful campuses in this country.\ The former Georgia governor complained that the complexities of New Yor:k State's primary system had prevented him from getting his name on the ballot in several congressional districts. .. When you go to the polls to vote. on Tuesday,\ he said, \there will be at least seven million NeW Yorkers - some of whom might prefer me as President - who'll have 110 chance to vote for me.\ by JACK PITNEY socially, politicaHy prominent people ... who carve out an unfair tax structure, hut never suffer from it.\ He said that, as governor of Georgia, he examined the state's prisons and found that they contained many poor people, but no rich people. \That is not r.ight. It's not fair. It's not decent,\ ·he said. Catter nevertheless affirmed his faith in America's future. He noted that this is a young ·country, \still struggling to grow, to become more mature, more adult.\ ln response to a question from the audi~nce, Carter defended his trips to Latin Amer-ica on behalf of the Lockheed Corporation. He explained that Lockheed is one of Georgia's biggest employers and that, dming his term as governor, he frequently made such trips to promote his state's industries. \I see nothing wrong with it,\ he said, \but I don't apologize for Lockheed bribery. I think that's a crime. I think anybody that's guilty of a crime like bribery ought to be put in jail.\ Carter promised to consolidate 1900 federal agencies into .. no more than 200\ and to institute a system of \zerocbase bl,ldgeting,\ whereby each agency would. have to justify its existence each year or face extinction. Ex-Georgia Governor Jimmy Carter Memorial Chapetaudience. addresses Echoing fellow Democratic candidate Fred Harris, Carter lashed out against the alleged. privileges of the few. He Claimed that \high-level government decisions are always made .?Y powerful people - To continue to mature, he said, the country needs strong leadership. He asserted that Cortgress is incapable of providing such leadership; only the President can truly motivate and inspire the American people. Though he called himself just \an average American citizen\ and said that \many of you in this room are perhaps better qualified than I am,\ Carter stated that he is not afraid of the office, for his strength and courage come from the American people. As for the nation's energy policy, Carter said that the government ought to establish oil allocations to the states based on historical usage patterns. He proposed a. gradual shift to solar energy and coal as power sources. He called nuclefl.r power a \last reosrt\ solution to the energy problem for \several reasohs: environmental, psychological and also because of the problems of waste disposal .and the possible use of byproducts for atomic weapons.\ But if the use of nuclear energy became necessary, he said, the reactors would have to be located in remote areas and outfitted with numerous safety features. 'Soundtrack' course brings stars to Union SPECIAL TO CONCORDIENSIS Four top names in A·merican filmmaking Alan Arkin, Marvin Harnlisch, Cliff Robertson, and Jules Feiffer ~ will visit Schenectady to talk about their work in a' major festiv.ai of the motion picture art presented next month by Union College. \Soundtrack offered through the Office of Graduate Studies and Continuing Education, will begin May lOin Procter's Theater on State Street, one of the old motion picture palaces and the only theater in the area large enough to seat all those expected to attend. Excerpts of the artists' works and, in fine case, a full-length feature not yet released will be shown at the four three-hour \Soundtrack'' sessions to be held May 10, May 17, May 24 and June 7. Each of the artists will then be brought on stage for a penetrating 90~minute interview about his work. The intervieWs will be conducted by Richard Brewn, the 32~year-o ld creator and host of WNBC-lVs \Dialog 200\ and film professm at New York's New School for Social Research. For the past three years, Brown has packed a 550-seat auditorium at the New School with his twc. courses, \The Electric Mind,\ and \Filmmakers on Filmmaking.\ While the forme.r deals with media of all kinds and the latter exclusively with film, Btown employs the interview as the main teaching tool in both: He has conducted more than 400 interviews with every major film talent, including Woody Allen, Robert Redford, Anthony Quinn, Warren Beatty and Robert Altman. The success of Brown's courses has been due largely to his own interviewing ability and stage presence, whi.;:h have been praised by Time magazine, the New York Times, and the Saturday Review. ''Richard Brown may be the best film tea~her around~ he is certainly the funniest ~ the only stand-up professor,'' Mel Brooks has said. \As an interviewer, Prof. Brown is brilliant; as a teacher, he IS mesmerizing.,\ noted Millimeter, New York's leading film journal. One of Brown's main objectives in \Soundtrack\ is \to put people in touch with their own reactions . Continued on Page 12 Pub provides alternative to Saga by -SUSAN KRONISH and ARNIE. HILLER For the members ()f the Union College community, · Sunday, March 28th represented not only · the start of the spring term, but also the opening of a new establishment designed to fill the void created through an absolute reliance upon Saga Food Services. The Dutch Hollow Restaurant Pub, located in the basement of the Student Center (aka Carnegie Hall), is able -to accommodate up to 140 people for dining purposes. Its two dining areas are divided by a centrally located bar. The Pub's charming, rustic setting enhanced by its dark wooded decor brings ferth a mellow atmosphere, unique to the College. The manager of the Pub, Angelo Maaone, 23, came to Union with extensive knowledge of the workings of University food concessions. He envisions the Dutch Hollow as being more than simply a bar or a rcstauran(; he hopes for an \even mixture of the two.\ Along these lines, M.r. Mazzone distinguishes between the roles of the Pub and the Rathskeller. For example,· when entering the Pub, you are impressed by the soft background music, encouraging a good amount of · socializing and communication in a more intimate setting. Each morning except Sunday, the Ptib opens serving a typical continental breakfast from 9:30- 11:00. Hot lunches are available between the hours of II :30 and I :30, and a variety of sandwhiches can be purchased throughout the day. Beginning Monday, April 12th, beer and wine will be sold along with lunch; all other alcoholic beverages can be ~bought from the bar beginning at 4:30 in the afternoon. The dinner format provides for a cafeteria-style meaf Sunday thru Wednesday, between the hours of 4:30 and 8:30. This routine varies from Thursday to Saturday, when the Pub is transformed into a \restaurant.\ On thee nights, the college community is invited to wine and dine within the comfortable confines of th~ Dutch Hollow Continued oo Pa~ 10 Pub patrons relax in brand-new dining facility.

Pag_~2 Faculty promotions . · announced -.· .·. .· . Nine members of the Union College faculy have received promotions in academic rank, .Union President Thomas N. Bonner has announced. Promoted from associate professor to full professor was Robert S. Sharlet of the political science department. Promoted from assistant to associate. professor were Charles M. Tidmarch, political science; Peter L.. T obiessen, biological ,. . sciences; W. · Loretta Walker, .. libr,ary; George H. Williams, ,. . • .. electrical engineering and L computer science, and Herman J~.;-: ~-·: . Zi~merman, cfvil engineering. },\',:: ·~ : Promoted from instructor to '.r~:'r-.~·.!:./ ·. . as~i~tant- professor were· Lucille 't~:.·~ .. ·i • .. ' •. B'r''o· wn lt\brary David Getham ·tf ~ - ., . ' , ' . ' ::;~ ·:: ···~'·· ~i~rary,_ and Ja:net Gr~gor,Hbra_ry. ·::.~~-~·,.,· .. t '· .. , ' w • -~ - ZJ·':;,: .. · ~Or .. Sharlet, a Bra-ndeis graduate jc;,,:.:· ·.Jt tirtiv~rsity wit\h .. a- doctorate in . ~:;:;:.: · :~· ·p.olitical science from Indiana ~hti\i· .. ,. University, . taught at the S:~:Y<·: . . University of Missouri and was visiting professor at the University of Wisconsin Law School before joining the faculty at Union in 1967. He is currently ·chairman of Union's political science department. Charles tidmarch, a native of Scotia, received a master's in political science from Johns Hopkins University before joining Uni9n's faculty as an instructor in 1970. Dr. T obiessen joined Union's science department in 1970 as an instructor in biological science. He received his doctorate from Duke University. W. Loretta Walker, a graudate of Howard University, received her master's degree in library science from SUNY-Albany before becoming assistant reference librarian at Union in 1968. Dr. Williams, a native 'of s_c,henectady, and ~rac:t1iate ~f Union, recetved •hts doctorate from Yale University and where he was a teaching fellow. A specialist in computer sCience, ~e joined Union's fa-culty in 1970~ A specialist in oce!Ul0graphic geology, Or~ l;immerm_an is a graduate of th!! City CoUeg¢ o.f New York. ·He earned his doctorate from the University of Rhode Island. He came to Union in 1970 •. Lucille Brown, a Hunter College gra~uate with a master's degree in library acience from SUNY-Albany, joined the Schaffer library staff at Union !it:> assistant t:ataloguer and in- structor in 1973. · . ·Dr. Gerha..tri ·,.~~d' . taught in ·the Buffalo pubric school system I befere coming to Onion's library I in 1972. ·f\. :.gradUat~ Of 'BtOWii University,;, .. h¢, : .tef~ived his ' doctorate .f!l. ~il:traty ,sci¢n<:e from. SUNY-Alf>ailt. ·. . ., .. J ';·, ~·. - .. ~··;· . ··~ - College research tearh develops 'bloodless' ··--·- - A revolutionary scalpel which ~~e~ a jet of hot gas rather than a · .. ; · blade to · cut tissue has been . .. : de.vdoped and used successfully .'-' by a Union College research t<::am • .I • • i~ ~n. 9pe~~ti'?n _on 3: liv.e ~I!!~~.J. · · Dr. Fran.k Stefmacl<, asststanl '· p 'r o fe s'so r 1 of mechanical' . engineering, and Stephen. Ai:lall!-S, .,, .. a .. ~eni9r biology major, .. su~cessfully removed part of the , .live·l' of a fat, an operation which \\·'. · ·ordinarily would have killed· the ':':.: · animal due to loss of blood. . .; '-· . -~owevei-; ''ihe new .. \plasma'' · · scalpel ca1.,1terizes blood vessels in the tissue aUhe same Hme as it eiJts, thus .prohibiting bleeding. Two days later, Prof. Stelmack reported, the rat \was happy and bouncing around. •• Other plasma scalpels have been developed by researchers elsewhere. However, the one devised by the Union College resear_~h _ te.~m. is, to f?r . Stelmack's knowledge, the most sophisticated and durable device of its type yet designed. Earlier plasma scalpels often burned out quic~ly because of the high temperature required, Stelmack said. . . The jet of gas, abo11t . seven . millimeters long. is produced by passing a mixture of helium and argon gas through a.n electric arc. The arc heats the gases to a temperature of 1400 degrees. A gas heated to such extreme temperatures is called a \plasma.\ If the plasma scalpel is perfected to the point at which it may be used on huma,n beings, it probably will not be u~ed in most Seeger comes to Albany streams. I , . . surgery, said ..:,Qr. ~.telm.~t~;Jc: The value of the pfa$ma scalpel lies in o.perations inv(}hiing such organs as the liver and. intestine~>~ where blood vessel; 'are ~iff!lse. and bleeci'ing is difficult .to ~controt. l\1uch st~il need-s· 'to be done before the p:lasma scalpel will be ready for us¢ .on human beings, said Dr, Stelm~ck. Safe surgical procedures .must be devised to .avoid h~rm ~p Qthe( or.gans from the intense neat of the scalpel, . - . . . something \\.hich will require some form o. shield or external cooling. F utbermore, the researchers r. ~ed to determine how much ga: ~rom the scalpel is absorbed· by t 1e bloodstream and what effect> . it . has. The researchers al: o want to measure the Oow of b food into the liver itself as ~~ first step toward measuring :he level of trauma experienced during surgery. All of this, said Dr. Stelmack, will require a great deal more testing on animals. This spring, an animal monitoring system will be developed by engineering students. Ga ti chosen ·.as PS chairman Charles Gati, ,professor of politicaJ science at Union College, will su(iteed. Robert Sharlet a§ chairman of . Union~s political science department. Ot, Gati wlU begin his tltree- year term August l. · A &pecialist in Russian and Central European foreign policy, and a .respected critic of American detente policies. Dt. Gati joined the .. Unjon fae4tty· in i?6i He fot~nlled' ·and ·:was ·fiist ·director of t:he. · college's :· com,p;u:aJive C()-mmufiist ' Studies .program. A fortrier Ford'' f'anndatiori fellow,· Dr~ Gati is the author of several b<>~ks in -his field·, inci11ding Caging the ~ear, ~nd is: a frequent c~nttibutQr' to · professional jourrials. · · · High school .....• arrives. Pete Seeger, famed folksinger and environmentalist, will bring his special brand of music to Albany on April lOth. In a benefit concert for the Hudson River Sloop Clearwater, Seeger will present some of the world's finest folk music, along with songs of the ~hidson Rivet. Chancellors Hall, · in the State. Education Eluilding on Washington Avenue, · will he the scene for enjoyment, in which the audience usually participates actively. Children and senior citizens both can enjoy the toe-tapping songs about hoboes, railroads, and muddy The concert is sponsored by the North River Friends of Clearwater, an Albany-based group which . is part of the Hudson River Sloop Restoration whose members · .. own\ the .Clearwater. The sloop may be familiar to some Capital Dsitrct residents, though her visits here are infrequent. Clearwater promotes the clean-up and restoration of the Hudson River. Among other programs, the sloop conducts on-board workshops for thousands of school children each year. ~rtmb lenntnin~ .of ... T ~ The 5th ~nnual Chi Psi Schenectuga Beer Rally will take pbJce Wed., April 21st. Entries are due Mon., April 19th and should include: Team name, names of 4 drinkers and l driver, and a $4.00 entry fee to cover the cost of beer at the start at Cht Psi, beer at the Hub in Saratoga, and the trophy cost. Course sheets will be available Tues., April 20th at Chi Psi. Starting times on Wed. begin at 8:30 p.rn. Give entries to Bob Carey at Chi Psi (346-9829). Call if you have any questions. Seeger's concert proceeds will benefit the sloop, whih is in need of $80,000 for refitting and repairs. Seven years of fresh water sailing has done much damage to the 106 foot boat. · The North River Friends of Clearwater hopes to attract some new members to its midst and will have a photographic exhibit and information center at the concert hall. Tickets are now on sale for $5 ($3 under 12, or over 60 years of age). They may be purchased at Apex Records in Schenectady, Just-a-Song, downtown Albany, and. Record Town stores in Rensselaer and Colonie. Mail orders may be sent to Clearwater, P.O. Box 1604, Albany, NY I 220 I. Please include a self- addressed, stamped envelope. Ct11ttt

i96i He of omparat'ive .program. A fellow; of several including isa frequent Qy Dr. • '\Topics in.· ... will · Thursd~y : 12 ,to AiUg. , . ~ppt~ach cre'ative or !.:-;_--· .. . , is $180. further are . or writing Studies · at Ave., · Phone: · .. _. President 'has b'~en· · of · the of the the is .io policies serve the. ,•• with .. on beral arts·· also been of the . · . Dr. will • of · of York> · with ~he· · \l ~ ... CONCORDIENSJS, Wednesday, April7, 1976 . ' p·BK to aid Adin.iS 1 BiO:ris by LAURIE GREE:NE and jOHN KNUDSEN Phi Beta Kappa at Vnion has volunteered its name and funds to help the Admissions Office ·in its work this year. It has done so in the belief that different students apply and . come to Union~ for different reasons. PBK l;>ecame involved to stress the fact that Union e!Tectively serves those students who want a College which can challenge their minds in a variety of different ways. ways. to that end, approximately 100 high school seniors who have already bl;!en accepted for admission next year are heing inVited for a special program on campus on Friday, April 23. This will serve as .a prelude to the \Accepted Candidates. Oa,y\ on the 24th, which the Admission($ Office . has organized for all st1:1dents accepted for admission next fall. Pl~mnillg the PBK program are two faculty members and six students: Profs.. Ludwig (Philosophy) a:nd Tobicssen (Binlogy) with Teri Barash, Larry Fein., Laurie Greene, Phil Hood, John Knudsen, and Denise Wachtenheim. Only one of these eight is a member of Phi Beta Kappa, and the Committee has already begun to .involve other faculty and students in various aspects of . tht;i.r (!Ianning. The Admissions Office and Director Jay Shupe have also le.nt their full support and coooperation. Of . first concern to the Committee is the process of selecting which 100 potential students to invite. When the PBK chapter president, Prof. Daivd Ports, first began to explore the possibility ·of establishing this kind Dean 's· List raised to 3. 35 next year by AUDREY ROTHSCHILD l·n response to Union~s grade inflation, the Committee on Standing proposed a 3.35 index. requirement for Dean~s List. The motion was brought up last spring and met Senate approval this fall._ . certain students. Grade inflation has not only made an impact on Dean's List but it has pressured the President's Advisory Board into raising tile index requirements for Latin Honors.At a college-wide faculy meeting on February 20, 1976, the faculty at large approved the Board's proposal for: 3.35 Cum Laude; 3.6 Magna Cum Laude; 3.8 Suma Cum Laude. The Board originally proposed that there be a gradual phasing in of the new requirements but the faculty voted that all three index requirements be rasied as of next The 3.35, which goes into affect next year, is. not a solution to grade inflation \)ut rather a reflect.ion of its existence. As of l!!st year, the coliege-wide index averaged just under 3.0 and the Dean's List, which is supposed to honor students, called for a 3.0 cum or better. The registrar disclosed that the 3 .. 0 cum allowed 902 st-udents to . be admitted on . · · the Dean',s list. ·If· the. 3,35 'bad The exiStence of'grade inflatioi:t . · been instituted.:as·of last year: the is making an impact on .Uni<ln number of Dean's List studl!hts · · College, but this is not to say that would have. dropped to 505.. it is an· isolated dilemma. q,Heges Percentage wise,· this eliminated across the. nation are trying to 44 percent of the 902 sudents. establish techniques which will year. In addition to the 3.35 plan, the abolish the rapid elevation of Committee 0n Standing · had grades. At Union, as well as all toyed with the pb,ssibility of over the country, no one knows abolishing it completely. At the how to handle the problem, but in end of their study, they decided the meantime Union will be against the removal of the Dean's making continuous attempts to .List since its. existenc.e guaranteed maintain the value of various the honotable recognition of · honor awards. GRIIDVA'IING IN .JUNE AND NO PLIINS'? Adel .ph. OFFERS A . . .. · .. · · I· N Eyv CAREER FOR ADELPHIUNIVERSITY COLLEG.E GRADUATES BECOME A OE;VELOPMENT SPECIALIST AND PUT YOUR EDUCATION TO WORK -:t--:r Summer Program: June 14-September 3,.1976 Fall Program:Jepteillber 27·DecemberJ7, 1.976 . . If you are . . . a person who identifies well with, others and relates well to diverse situations, oriented to social and educational values, a good organizer and coordinator, one who has the ability to articulate and be communicativ!3, creative and imaginative There awaits yol! a career in development offering you • • . an opportunity to use your diverse talents and knowledge in a professional capa~ity, an opportunity to make a contributi!ln to your community as you work with top civic, cultural and ihdustrial leaders an opportunity to achieve personal advancement in a growing field an opportunity to plan great ideas and concepts and to see them become a reality; Specialize through . . . a curriculum Which ·can be individually tailored so that. you can concentrate on the one or two areas of development that interest you mosf: • Community Service Campaigns • Hospitals and Health Care Financing • Ed~c.ational Deve[opment ~· Ethnic and Religious Support P~ograms • Political Fund Ra1smg • G1ft Development for Cultural Orgamzations A representative will be on campus for grou.P presentations and individual interviews on: of program, he explained the kind of student he viewed as an ideal prospect: \It should be someone who wou-ld come to Union to squeeze· the College for everything po:>~ible in the area of intellectual stimu\ation and growth. Lt qoesn't have to be someone with high SAT scores· or a class vale\dictorian. lt can be someone with an average record but with a passion for understanding the Civil War, or a student who has built a computerfrom scratch, or soneone who has written aild directed a pl~y.\ The stimulus for this program was summed up by Prof. Hyron Nichols, local secretary of PBK. Noting that the Athletic Dept. has long recruited students which it wants far its sports prgrams and that a few academic department's (primarily in engineering) have done the same thing, Nichols said that \Phi Beta Kappa has become invol·ved because we feel that Union 'college might also be more a,dive in recruiting those students who exemplify the 4'Ualities for which PBK has histori<:aU;y stood: breadth of interest, curiosity, and a dedication to intellectual achievement and independent thought.\ It represents, said Nichols, an additional effort to maintain the historic excellence of the Union College student body. Russell Baker, NY nmes columnist Speakers: No holds barred by JACK PITNEY touched on a wide variety of \I feel very humble to be here topics. He said that to be a tonight,\ said columnist Russell humorist, a person must have Baker to a full nouse at Memorial three essential qualifications: an Chapel last Monday. \The reason unhappy childhood (\An I'm going to begin that way,\ he unhappy adolescence is no good. stat~d, \is because I've studied my Everybody had an unhappy speechmakin.g from watching adolescence.\) a capacity for politicians. I've observed that they outrage at man'!! stupidity, and an ·always begin by telling you how ability to see the world upside- humble they feel...l've never down. .Each student will have a Union student host and will stay in a dorm. Committee members estimate that ·of the 100 students invited. probably 40-50 will accept the invitation and participate. Any Union student who might be interested in hosting a prospective candidate on Friday, April 23, should contact either John Knudsen or Larry Fein at 346-9861. known a politician who wasn't He called Washington \the proud of his humility. Many of world's greatest company town.\ them are. downright arrogant He said that everyone in the city about it.\ . tries to get ahead by being close With a deadpan delivery,' Baker to the boss of the town, namely, Conlntittee selection '1 begi.ns by MAl\l' HKII!:I' regular committee meetings with It's Y.OUr turn to get involved in faculty and administration to anythhig from alumni relations to devise ideas and be organized. planni~g to the college budget . .Be There will be a meeting in a campus star. Every spring the SSOI6, Thurs., April 8th at 8:00 Committee on Committees apoints approximately 100 that all committee applicants . ,students to Committees. This must attend. We will answer all year, we have tried to questions and go into detail on devise a process that will be the committee selection process conducted as fairly as possible. and on on certain committees. All Since returing to school this term, appl!cants must attend if at all there has been an application in poss~ble. If Y.ou have any your mailbox, if you need more questiOns, do not hes1state to call there ;will be more . in Mrs. any of the members on The Marra's office and are due back Committee on Committees. They April 16th at 4:00. No extensions are : will be given. The Committee on Matt Bri~f. Chairman 370-6478 Committees will interview those Andy Koblenz, Sophomore the President. Governn'fent officiaJS'' try . to ernulate the President's iife-style, even down to the kind of drinks he takes, Baker said. He explained that he is a great believer in \the poetry of politics\ and that he tries to think of . Presidential candidates in terms of metaphors: \The one you get when you think of Gerald Ford is that of the whole country illuminated with a ten-watt light bulb. With Carter, it's the same country, but it's illuminated with 10,000-watt teeth. With Jackson, everybody's asleep by the fireside.\ He criticized the candidates for devoting most of their time to projecting a smiling, benign image instead of talking about issues such as arms control. \What bothers me about this,\ he said, \is that I don't know whether the quality of a man's smile has much to do with saving me from being students who ha-ve written the Rep. 370-6742 best applications for major Mitch Mindlin, Junior Rep killed thirty times.\ Baker said the sheer committees before making their 370-6478 final selections. You may apply Lee Rimsky Senior Rep. 346- for more than one committee. 9428 You must reapply for a Ben Green, At Large (Soph) committee if you're on it already. 370-6720 ' In every committee·this year, a Library l'ommittee Liason will be appointed if the Help formulate policies and Committee has no Chairman. The programs with the Chief Liason will call meetings of the Librarian. students on his Committee and Committee on l'ommittees shall report to one metnbe; of of This all student committee the Committee on Committees. It accepts or rejects new student is important that students on activity constitutions and selexts Committeees meet outside of studets on committees each year. Continued on Page l3 ·. grotesquerie of the events of the 60's and 70's have made Americans willing to believe anything. A couple of years ago, he said, he wrote a satirical article stating that the Air Force was planning to build a jet with a 30- mile wing span. He was then deluged wi!h lett~rs protesting the ptim and asking for more infe>rmation. · ~- WINE DISCOUNT CENTER r-------------------------~~ I I I I I I I I I Union Pharmacy 4)00 Union St. Gershon's Delicatessen l \Lowest Legal Prices\ I NAME-------~~~--~-PHONI\--------- 1 ADDRESS•-___...,..,.---....-~------------------- 1 CITY-----------STATo:_ __ ~-.....--ZIP.~----- 1 !J SUMMER 1978 OFALL 1976 Ma.ll to: Mrs, Laurel Isaacs Development SpeCialist Proqram University College Business Building Room 111 Adelphi University Garden City, New York 11530 I I I I ''l.i~--~illlill:lt--·-- ---...-! -~ ................................. ______ .... , ............. .. '· Men & Women Student Needs 374-3605 1600 Union St. 397-0617 Fine GoGds ~:;:::::~ To Go or Stay :;:l:::::( \~\1\~\\~~\1\\~i\~r~it\~\\i\~~~1\~i1ii~m\1t\\Ilmil\ii~r~~~~\i\i\i~~~i~t~ \Free Delivery\ \ ~~ Tel.. 374a9285 ~~ 1142 STATE ST. t~ .... ~ ......

' ' •'j .7- • .1976 visits Bonner I • Israeli universities Saga /ood service's place in Union's future remairls in doubt. Saga: Future • uncertain by BOB WEINSTEIN given Saga untH the middle of A daily war goes on at Union. the Spring term before making SPECIAL TO CONCORDlENSIS Universities in Israel are facing serious social problems similar to those confronting the higher education system in this country, says President Thomas Bonner. Bonner met with reporters a week after returning from a l C · day tour of the Middle East nations and told of the central role . J in mtegrating Arab and other minority citizens into an ·inherently Western culture. Critics, Bonner said, claim the universities are not dealing with the nation's problems. He and the other Amuican university presidents with whom he traveled agreed the Israelis, in sqme cases, were \reinventing the wheel.\ But he quickly added the schools have taken difficult and important steps to bring minority students into the University to foster discussion of theiproblems that now face the tiny country. . Nowhere is {hat more evid~mt th<\11 at the University ·Of Haifa, Bo.oner said. A \Program to Close the So~;;ial Gap\ has actively recruited disadvantaged students and provided them with remedial help in hopes of \promoting the social mix.\ An Arab-Israeli Center \deals openly with issues like the Pale~tine question in an incredible atmosphere of freedom,\ Bonner said. Similar but less fruitful efforts are being made at the nation's other six universities, the president noted, with regional programs established to provide nonacademic training or preparatory work for those wishing to continue t'hei,r ed ucatiorts. There is little opposition to the university efforts but undergraduate . and professional training for mino.rities, while not closed to them, remains minimaL \They are faced with the same problem we have in trying to . educate black students and other minorities here,\ Bonner said. ''People pay lip service and there are various programs but the results lag.\ The country's older colleges, like the Hebrew University, are modeled after western European schools that concentrate on scholarship and research. The Technion, which envisions· a status similar to MIT or Cal Tech in this country, produces Israel's engineers, doctors and scientists, Bonner said. Ben-Gurion 'University, named ~fter the country's former prime minister, is one of the universities with a regional mission. Located at Beersheba in the -southern dessert, it worked primarily on irrigat-ion problems crucial to the country's agriculture. The universities are significantly affected by the military Bonner said. Compulsory service often delays the start of higher education until students l\re 21 years ,old. \What that does for maturity and career orientation is remarkable\ Bonner said. \Students seem more serious. There is not much playfulness.\ He also note the \Army is a nationaHzing, democratizing force\ that teaches people the mores of society and how to live together. ''In a sense, the Army is the great educational institution,\ Bonner claimed. Bur ·he · noted service in the . Army is a status symbol and Arabs prohibited from serving are faced with an identity problem that threatens their · role as citizens. . BoQ:ner sensed .concern. an'l:_oijg \the 1sraelis that the United States may not see Israeli security as .part of its ·long-range national . interest. in Levanon will result lin Syrian occupation of the country's southern tip, Bonner said. A military planner told him such a move woiu!d force Israel to \go to war the next day\ to protect its northern border. This war is the attack on our the recommendation because it stomachs being perpetrated by had just changed managers and Saga Food Service. The \Gastro- felt it proper to give the new Intestinal War\ is unlike most manager time to ·improve the otheres in that peo.ple aren't quality of the service. This dying, though there may be committee asked for injuries. The heavy artillery is improvements in the following held by Saga in the form of the areas: food they serve us. Even though Improvement in the progreams the student body doesn't have a and variety in menus shauld be large arsenal, it has the ownership off e red . I m p r o v e d of the 'most powerful weapon ~ communication, was called for the dismissal of Saga. The status between Saga and the students. of the War and what steps have The necessity for this was been taken in the peace apparent to any student who had negotiations are the following: one of the Option Plans offered Ombudsmen: open far grievances .I by JIM TRUMP The Conduc~ Ombudsman Committee, ·formed recently by the college and functioning under the auspices of the Student Life Committee, plansd, to begin its initial operations this week. This· committee is responsible for any grievan.ce, complaint, or suggestion directed to or against any member of the college community or any college institution by another member or another institution of this college. These grievances might concern administrative policies, faculty members, college departments, college service units, or students. They could involve cases dealing with student misconduct, racism or sexism. In other words, anything, whether it concerns faculty, administration, or students, can be brought to the attention of the Conduct Ombudsman Committee. lt is as possible. Witl)in one week o1 receiving a· charge, a C0C member will contact all parties it;1Volved. He will then try and sift through all relevant informatipn On Feb. 2, a letter was sent to last term, About a week passed the regional director of:Sag~ from 1 before fhe st(tqents.knew how the the · Food Committee. This system, would work; in the committee was set-up by the interim, the students didn't know Student Life Committee and was whether or not they were ahead given the· responsibility of meals or behind. The Committee investigating Saga and the.quality felt that the $1.25 offered for each of its service to the students. They box on the option card was not were then to make a adequate, thus the option doesn't recommendation whether or not give the students the flexibility . and all p.ossible paths of action. .Thef!, if this m~ml?er :caf)I}Ot bring about any sort of resolution, he will ask the parties involved to come before the committee as a • to keep Saga as Union's food they wanted. · service. The committee decided to Berthold tenure decision appealed . . . . . essential that every member of the by NEAL ADAM SCHWARTZ and IRA SUTTON Student support for the tenurability of Howard Berthold and for the tenure process in general took an active step forward at the end of winter term. Howard Berthold was denied tenure in the Psychology Department and i~ now appealing that decision. ·ln the origin(\1 decision, the Com111ittee on Faculty overturqs:d the positive recommendation handed to them by the Ad Hoc committee, resulting in tenure refusal. The appeals process''works as follows: 1) A professQr, after being refused tenure, can. appeal to the Committee on Faculty and wait for their decision; or 2) if he is deemed not worthy of tenure after appealing to this committee, he can either look for a job at another school when his short term contract expires or he can make a final appeal to the Presidential Advisory Board . (PAB). d1sc~s~ thts. controvt!r~tal tssue. ' college c·ommunity, especially the !he1r. ~ct10n consisted of students, feels free to bring before tiHervte~mg fa~ulty. tn~mb~ers, this particular committee conductmg an mvesttgatlon mto anything he or she deems the determinants of a professor necessary. worthy of tenure (research) and a The first step in taking any sort petition. The petition was thought of action in conjunction with the to be essential in that it would let COC is a written charge. This is students become informed of the only a written statement of one's issue in a personal situation. complaint, grievance, suggestiort, There were both positive and charge, and the person or negative reactions from students institution against or to whom the when handed the petition. One charge is directed. Forms for the student commented, \Why should filing of these charges are now I sign this ~ I don't even know available in Student Activities the guy!\ while another said, ''I'll and will soon be given to all sign the part about changing the RA's. Naturally, the COC will not tenure process, but that's all.'' handle each and every one of Others said that they had heard these cases individually. about the situation and signed Whenever possible, the COC shall quickly. The reactions were make referrals to other college mixed, but a surprising majority bodies established to deal felt that the tenure process was specifically with certain ambiguous and needed to be complaints and urges students to improved upon. Many felt do likewise. For example, if sympathy for Berthold's case someone is having a problem in and spoke of cases in the English, his dorm, the COC will most History, and Math departments likely refer him ·to the Housing where, they . felt, other unjust Office. Only when the proper decisions were reached. college authority has not taken Some of the comments of any measures to rectify the students as they signed the situation or when there is no petition were, \It could happen in existing authority to nandle an any department,·\ ··1·t t's an · issue will the COC be called upon whole. Here everyone will try and sit down and talk the mattl!r over until a decision is made. The COC is not a court, it is not a judicial system and there will be no attempt on the part of the COC to be .. legal.\ The COC is a group of students trying to resolv.e any and all relevant problems quickly and effectively. It has been given its powers by the se·nate; however, it will never try to pretend to be a court ·of law. Finally, when the COC reaches a decision, it will forward 'this and any recommended punitive action to the proper authority, · i.e. the Dean of Students, the Dean of Faculty, etc. In order for COC to work effectively, it needs the respect and cooperation of tbe entire college community. The committee does not wish to be<;ome an organization used merely to \screw\ students or as an instrument of personal revenge. The COC is simply intended to . help in the development of a better college. That is all. lt will try to look at each issue fairly, honestly, and without bias. Nothing more can be promised. If there are any questions concerning the COC feel free to BUSINESS OPPORTUNITY Stuff E nve lo ~es $25.00 PER HUNDRED Immediate Earnings Send $1.00· To: Last week, Berthold's tenure appeal to the Committee on Faculty ·was rejected, and he is now appealing to the PAB. Students and Faculty members met three times last term to ambigl,Jous case in which one to render a decision. committee overturned the The COC . will attempt to Envelopes Dept. 612 A 102 Charles Street Bo~ton,Mass. 02114 Continued on Page 11 consider every charge as quickly come to one of its weekJ:y meetings Wed. at 10:30 in 303 Carnegie. You can also drop a note as well as all cbarges in the COC mailbox in the mail room· (formerly the ·.}f~lon. :ss<?~ . mailb@x) or els~·-(:lontitct any O:f. the committee's members: . Mary Mastrianni-66 r 5 Nancy Feldm!ftl.-6524 Jo·n Margolis-346-'9582 Rob Stoltz-6644 Margie Cohen-663S Jim Tremlett-6564 Jim Trump-372-.16gl As stated above, your help and ideas will be greatly appreciated. Sight Point Institute is a s4mmer community of scholi;irs .for outstanding students interesteQ in lit- erature, psycho.logy, and philosophy. The instructional system, like that at Oxford, is based on intensive tutorials. Excellent recreational oppor· . tunities are provided by a rural setting on the coast of Nova Scotia. Forin.formation, write to Sight Point lnstitut,, 361 60th Street, Oakland, CA · 94618. ., . 'i\ !If •\ lr'\ '[C'(.)'' ·r ·~ .l~·;t.:~\1/1~)· . 1 i'~ ~-} • ''REPORTS • THESES MANUSC_RIPTS RESUMES . . 't t t I 'It ·i) • ; • PROMPT SERVICE • REASONABLE RATES 433 LIBERTY STREET SCHENECTADY, N.Y. 372-5841 ·~ .... :., -- - - FOB UQlJOR AND WINE Try Jdce Lipstein's . ·~ State Street · PR.t-1 .. - ·-·· ·- - ..... - .t t ·~ j. ~ ·•t 11 ................... I' I !. I, i I. I ! h II

s are by the start of students maturity tion is said. serious. rmy is a the to live is the in the and erving are problem · role as rn. artwrig States as . lin Syrian country's said. A such a to \go to protect its s weeki:Y in 30.5 o drop a in the mail room : Bq<;>~ . any · O:f. 5 help and ppreciated. of anding in lit- y, and is I oppor· by a of · ' ' CE 372-5841 ' 7. 1976 Page5 Solazzo j·oins Placen1ent staff The staff at the Placement Office has been expanded to include Mr. John Sollazzo. Sollazzo is a 1973 graduate of SUNY at Albany, wpere he majored in ;psycholo,gy. He also obtained an educational specialist degree in counseling and a Master's degree in counseling from SUNY A last May. Sollazzo pl'eviously WO'rked as an a.dmhsion counselor at Schenectady Community College, and also served as counselor for the Schenectady Educational Opportunity Center. John Sonazzo, new Placement Officer Speakers: Sollazzo's major responsibility will be to develop a career counseling program at Union. He will advise undergraduates in career p.launing, through individual and group sessions. Sollazzo is planning student workgroups; to begin in mid- April. Announcements of these Marmor denies aggres.siv,e instinct by JACK PITN·EY In a speech in SS 016 last Wednesday night, Dr. Judd MarmoT, president of the American Psychiatric Association, stated that .. theFe is not and there has never been any sound scientific evidence for a spontaneous aggressive instinct in man, or for that matter, in any other <tnimal. '' He noted that although humans have an innate capacity for violence, the expression of this .capacity has always been dependent upon external factors. As a result, he said, \the adaptive challenge .tltat faces us is one of ~ryinj to devise \Ji)sychological models that would eliminate the factors that call human agression into play.\ Marmor identified two categories under which such factors can be explained. He said that the first, individual violence, is usually the result of individual psychopathology. He asserted that p~ychopathological violence can be cnar~cterized not only by strong emotions such as hate and fear, but also by \the Adolf Eichmann mentality:'' in other words, ••it's the violence that occurs when the individual is just doing his job.\' The second kind, group or social violence, tends to occur in situation.s of .poverty and overcrowding, he said. A A very trivial affair \ r e v o I u t i on o f r1 s 1 n g expectations\ can also inflame a populace. he observed, for \once you open the door on hope and people get a glimpse of what they could have ...• then their tolerance for the frustration that they may What was the· name of the charac.ter played by Jafk Nicholson in Chinatown? Where was the second Cassius Clay-Sonriy Liston ·heavyweight title fight held'? . What. was the narne of the Senator whose vote not to convict cleared Presid,ent · Andrew Johnson after his irnpeachment by the House of Representatives? If you answered Jake Gittes, lewiston, Main.~;, and Edmund Ross, you're a prime contender for combat in WRUC's Third Annual Trivia Contest. Yes, once again it'S dorm VS. fraternity Vs. off-campus. The game is simple. Two trivial hours, from 8 to 10 p.m. Tuesday nig.hts, 100 questions unknown to anyone but the Trivia staff are hurled at a Union audience with nothing better to do than try to recall those glorious memories of have endured for decades is no Superman. Humphrey Bogart longer tenable.\ movit:s. - a:nd the Brooklyn Mar:mor castigated the mass· Dodgers. Questions range from. ' media for often being \purveyors the ridiculously obvi~us to those · of Yi()Jence for profit.~' He of minute detail so amateurs and expressed particular .concern trivial experts of erudition alike) about the effects of violence mi can wage trivial war. After seven childrelt. stating that .. it contests, awarcds will be given to desensitiz:es them to the spectacle the groups who have answered of hurnan brutality and it also t·he most questions correctly and educates them in the techniques the winner of ·most individual of violence.\ contests. South College, a H.e said that the cures for .social budding dynasty, has won in the violence lie in the alteration of the past two years, though rumor has basic. institutions of society. For it tha:t they have been almost instan.ce, he noted that capitalism fatally wounded by recent foster$ competitiveness, which in defections. Will this dynasty be turn leads to dangerous feelings smashed by West or Fox'? Man of frustration.. Though socialism your phones, turn up your radio; per se is not the ans~er, he said, long awaited Trivia is coming, we' 01.1ght to devise a system Tuesday nigbts, 8 to 10 on whereby the basic means of WRUC, 90.9 on you.r FM dial. production \belong to all the Oh yes; who wrote the novel, The people\ and free enterprise is Wizard of Oz? curtailed. THURSDAY~· APRIL 8, 1976 Shows at g:oo and tt:oo P.M. Tickets on sale at s:oo -in Carnegie ' . . THIS WitEK CABARET FEATURES: Folksinger and Guitarist FRA~ MESSINA and ·SUE FINKELSTEIN · reading a play by Matt Brief Incidental Music by Jeff Amado .. by SUSAN DRAPER workgroups will be included in a newsletter which Sollazzo plans to publish twice a term. Also included in the newsletter will be ;lnnouncemertts about job availability, graduate programs, summer and parHime jobs, employment trends, and vo'Iunteer job information. that means recogmzmg personal skill, interests, and values that are wo*-rclated. John S.nlla7.z.o's. function is to assist in that process. Sollazzo is excited about the opportunity to work with Union students. He considers Union students to be well-qualified and highly competitive in the job market. Sollazzo does recognize the need to promote an awareness on the part of the student, what he/she has to offer, and how to present skills to an employer. He also cited the necessity f~;>r a student to be in contact with the Placement Office throughout his four years at Union. Choosing a career is a developmental process JACK ANDERSON, EAT Y6UR HEART OUT Union College m~tgazine, · published. bimonthly for 20,000 alumni, parents, and · friends of Union, seeks an undergraduate columnist who · can interpl'et student life with a touch of humor in well- written columns of precise length meeting specified deadlines. A small honorarium . will be p11id. Candidates must demonstrate ability by submitting sample columns. For further information, see the editor,. Bernard R. · Carman, in Lamont House (617'1). The Department of English invites the submission of ~ntries in the following writing competitions. The deadline for submission. is Friday, May 7. The AUen Essay Prize: awarded to seniors in any department for non-fiction essays. The Van Orden Prize: for freshmen (in any department) excelling in English composition. The Yudis Prize: for the student in any class who has produced the best piece of prose fiction. The American Academy of Poets Prize: for the best poem by ap undergraduate. In the interest of fairness, each prize entry should be labeled with a pseudonym on both the paper and an attached s.ealed envelope; inside the envelope should be the student's real name and address. All of this hould be placed in a large manila envelope marked with the name of the competition for which it is being submitted. The envelope should be delivered to the Department office in Humanities 212, ho later than Friday, May 7. Any questions about these competitions should be directed to Prof. Nelson in the Humanities Building (telephone 6210). .SwiiD teaDI ' sets records by KEITH JACOBSON sophomore, achieved his best After a season 0 .f times in the 100 and 200 breast disappointments, sickness 1 and and qualified as an· alternate for consistent losses the Union the final competition. Sophmores College Swim-Team put forth its Tom Broderick and Tom Burgess, finest efforts at the Upper-New both plagued by injuries and the York State Championships held flu, put forth gallant efforts in the at Colgate on March 6 and 7, competition and were on the 400 recording its best times .in years. yd. freestyle relay team with Seven of Coach Magee's boys Ct;>rbett and Lowe, w~ich just went to Colgate and when they m1ssed All-State honors by came. back to Schenectady, they ·finishing in 13~h pl~ce. had eight school records in their The Champ1onshtps were won hands. by Hamilton and eight other Captain Tom Richardson, in teams ~~alit:ied . f?~ the NCAA his final collegiate meet, set two co~peh.~l~n m ?•vtsions I, II, Ill . school records in the 100 yd. Unton flmshed m twelfth place as backstroke, 200 yd. backstroke, a team arid this must be and was a part of the record recognized as the Garnet's finest breaking 800 yd. freestyle relay swimmi~g if! seven years. team. In all three events Tom The ! n1y qualified for All-State honors res Q .. finishing in 9~h, lOth, and 12th ooe thin' g· places, respectively. · · Tom's younger brother Doug wo·· rse than finished his freshman year with · · . · · two records to . his credit. He ft'ndt'ng OUt broke his own best in the 1000 yd. · • · freestyle and went on to set a n...ew VOU Jiave school mark in the 1650 yd. J'. freestyle. cancer. Sophomore Jim Lowe qualified for the NCAA Division Ill Not Championships for the s·econd I • ye~r 'in a . row . with his record ftnding out. sphttmg 11me in the 100 yd. breastroke. Lowe continued his outstanding performance when he b'roke, the ZOO breast mark. He qualified for All-State honors in both events. .. , Alan Hertzberg, another. freshman dynamo, established the ~eighth school record when· he finished 12th. in the 200 yd. Individual medley. Hertzie, along with Tom Richardson, Doug Richardson, and Jim Lowe, was a member of the record setting 800 yd. freestyle team. Ed Corbett, a strong Many cancers can be cured if discovered early enough. Get a regular health check- up. Start now. We want to wipe out cancer in your lifetime. Give to the American Cancer Society. American I Cancer Society * THIS SPACE CONTRIBUTED BY !HE PUBLISHER

. ' Page6 CONCORDlENSlS, .Wednesday, Apri/7, 1976 arts 'All the President's Men': Brilliant by MIKE AFFINIT() All The President's Men is a brilliant film which vividly calls to mind the unsettling events and repercussions of the Watergate scandal. ' The incidents which led to the exposure of the Watergate cover- up and the eventual resignation of President Richard Nixon are shown as they materialized before the eyes of Carl Berstein (Dustin Hoffman) ·and Bob Woodward (Robert Redford), two young and hungry reporters of The Washington Post. The story unfolds with the shady circumstances surrounding the Watergate bteak-in and traces the · work of Berstein and Woodward as they unearth evidence and slowly piece together the complex p.uzzle of Watergate. The story is often humorous, but more often leaves the viewer disturbed and angry over the futile attempts to cover up the crime. · Hoffman and Redford are superb in their roles. lioffman captures the brash and volatile. Records: personality of Berstein almost flawlessly as he slowly comes to an awareness of the magnitude of what has been uncovered. Redford easily conforms to the role of the mild and cool,. but insatiably curious Woodward. Together Hoffman and Redford, known for their larger than life characterizations, give a very real and poignant portrayal of their real life counterparts. Jason Robards as Ben Bradlee, Managing Editor of The Washington Post, captures the character of the editor at his finest. All of th!; gruffness, vulgarity and courage Bradley displayed throughout· the early artd turbulent days of Watergate come through in Robard's interpretation of this character. The threesome of Hoffman, Redford and Robards brings the film to heights seldom achieved in movies depicting docu-nented fac1 yet while the film is one. hundred percent factual, it is by no means a documentary .. It is an accurate and intelligent work designed to emotionally affect its audience while relying on their l<tiOwledge of Watergate to pull the film together intq a coherent work. It is in this respect that director Alan Pakula is magnificent. He lays out the fr-agments of the story and keeps the viewer one step ahead of the two reporters. It is · the anticipation of each new discovery that Woodward and Berstein are about to make which provides the necessary tension in the film. All The President's Men. is a gratifying film, It leaves one satisfied knowing that the tenacity of two young reporters led to the unmasking of the biggest political ' scandal in American history. Woodward and Berstein sought to go beneath the political front which is all too often shown to the American people. What' they found there proved .to be a source of embarrassment for the govemment and disillusionment for all Americans. All The President's Men,. is a powerful, entertammg . and lhought-provoking film. These are three qualities seldom found \9gether in any Alr!erican 1 film and they make this one a standout. ' A m.usical report· card by DAN ROSENBAUM more complex m1,1si~, which Yet ·another superb set from the Raxter's joining indicates, the premier renaissance-rock band. Doobies have lost what they're Phil Collins, who now sings lead, . ' A lot of music has · been released recently, and as might be expected, some of it is pretty good, some is pretty fair, and some, quite frankly, stinks. ln order to qt.antify the qualitative judgements, I've decided to use. a standar(j twelve-point. grading system: ·Once again, the standa~d disclaimer: Y du ·may disagree with what I say - in fact, you very possibly will. The fact we might argue is why nn not a talent scout or critic for the Village Voice. On the other hand, neither ar.e you. Onwards ... best at. C- sounds, of all things, like Dash . Genesis, A Trick Of The Tail Crofts, but that's an asset rather (ATCO). What can I say'l Not as than a drawback. Also of note is powerful or ambitious as Lamb! the fact that David Hentschel their latest, Qenesis carries on helped with both the engineering through the loss of Peter Gabriel and prodilpHon choies. as though nothing has happened. Hentschel, yoti may recall, was This is not an album to listen to responsible for ~tl' the Elton John casually, as background music. synthesiz.er work before this year. This is imposing music, music Thaf includes \Funeral For A that demands to be played loud. Continued on ·page, II Symposium retrospective: Hoffman and Redford portray Woodward Classical notes: Bernstein The Best 'Nine' and by JOHN KNUDSEN the fact that he achieved results. One of the more important His performances were al}Vays landmarks in the career of. any clear and precise, his skiU at the conducter comes when he receros art 'of conducting indisputable. In a full set of the nine Beethoven Short, his scholarship and his symp·honies .. Thus many devotion ;lo music gave him two Beethoven \set.s'' have been . · assets that all gre~t condw;;tors released over the years and are must have: intellect and heart. readily available at any good Under his direction the Cleveland record store. While many· of these Orchestra · became the ·finest a·re of mediocre quality, some· musical· insttumerrf.in the land. stand~. out as ·notable artistic These Beethoven recordings achievements. The Toscannini, retl~ct the high s'tahdards :()( this Joc·hum and Karajan sets. are 'brilliant o·rchestra~ The overall amoQg these~ However, the finest s·ound · quality is quite good travers~l of the. Beethoven Nine in considering th:it'•··rnost· of the my ·mind· is· performed by the recordings were made in i:tii!'early Cleveland Orchestra under the sixties. As for 'the individual direction of George Szell symphonies themselves, Szell's (Columbia Records, M7X30281), First and Sec'ond may very well In addition to its artistic be · the·· best· ·\in· ··the' ·entire excellence, this historic set is also repertoi.re. These performances :-a bargain· since au· seven stereo·· capture eighteenth centllry quality discs can be purchased for less that characterized Beethovert;s than the price of four. . earlier WO~'ks.' Both. are played Actually; the outstanding with grace and precis.ion, IJirk Hamilton, You ·Can Sing u· • On The Left Or Bark On The fl} 0 fl Right, (ABC). An odd mixture of · . · · Arts nature of this album is not 'generating a delightful .vitality surprising at all. After the death that never seems to get out of of Arturo Tsocannini, Maestro hand. As for the Third, this is an Szell was generally accepted as ·'Eroica\ that truly lives . up to its t · the world's greatest living naine. The opening allegro takes C 0 n r 0 V e r S y conduct.or, ~ik~ . T oscan?.i~i . ~e the listener through every facet of was a hterahst and a p.rec1s1omst 1uimatl ·experience. It is swift, .su~nds. If you could im~gine a b MATT BRIEF vo1ce that has . the best of Bob Y Dylan, Paul Simon and Don I am not \arty.\ The closest I've Fagen (of Steely Dan) you pretty come to art courses are Creative much have it. .It's more or less a Writing and Advanced CFeative melodious whine, but pleasant. Writing. In the beginning of this The overall sound of the music is year. the Student forum felt the countryish Steely Dan. Like development of the Arts Program them, Hamilton is at home with was the number-one long range both the ballads, like .. The Sweet priority of Union College. Out of Forever\ and the rockers, such as this feeling grew the . Arts \Sweet and Cold,\ which is the Symposium, a project that would best cut on the album. Not a bad reach students of all disciplines. debut at all. B The goal was to tap their feelings Lisa Hartman (Kirshner). One on the meaning of the arts and look at this album. and you will hopefully show how a full arts want to buy it. Ms. Hartman has program would benefit Union. the most gorgeous face I have The turnout was poor. Bad ever seen. I only wish the music time .in the term, poor publicity were as pleasant. Oon Kirshner, - all the usual reasons for the man who brought you The students' lack of participation Monkees and The Archies is were given. However, this article trying to puH another one on you. isn't .about that; either. My group If you like Olivia Newton-John, did meet, ,fourteen people ranging you'll probably love Lisa' from arts majors to political , Hartman. Otherwise, you would science majors, pre-meds, do well to steer clear of this over• freshmen, and a physi.cs produced, saccharine disc. Dip it professor. ·We talked for over an in your coffee, if you must pick it hour and · a half, and many up. c- interesting things were said by all The Doobie Brothers, Takin' It wjo .attended. J came to several To The Streets (Warner ;Bros.). conclusions after we broke up. Ex-Steely Dan \Skunk'\ Baxter Students at Union do not really joins the Doobies, along with the · understand what the arts are. Memphis Horns. The. result Students in my group all wanted doesn't make it. It comes out the Arts Department to give sounding like a bad Chicago rip- courses that they could take and off. It was intended to be a move have \a good time.\ This is fine, toward jazz-rock, but the effort healthy, surely some interest in just doesn't congeal. One song, the arts is present on campus. \Carry Me Away,\ sounds for the Profe~or Freund's courses are first 30 seconds or so. as though among the most popular on the band will swing into \Love campus, and cards for arts will Keep Us Together!\ The only courses vanish the first day of song worthy of the old Doobies is pre-registration. Yet when the \Turn It Loose,\ although \Rio\ .subject came to expanding the isn't all that bad. In a quest for arts program in order. to who d7manded no_thing less than · tight\ 'and dynamic. The funeral a,ccommodate a gr-owing number perfe~t10n from h1s orchest.ta at march is ·somewhat fast, although ()f arts majors, some students all tu~es. Always the ult1mate handled with care. Since SzeU were piqued, particularly when an authont~,. h.e. sec~.nc;led the never seems to waste a note, it is expanded Arts Department would !osca~r.um d.Ictum: ~emocr~cr, the quiet moments of this t~ke place at the expense of m poht1cs, anstocracy m ~~~1c. movement that are most anather department. (This need T_here were the.se who cnt~c1zed· impressive. The scherzo by not be true.) Often stUdents his methods and accused h1m. of contrast is a delightful whidwind expressed the sentiment that arts arrogance. Yet no one ever demed Continli!o!d on Page 10 were \fun \easy a \diversion and not a serious discipline like Biology or Political Science. The problem is that the Arts are .abstract. There are no right answers, tests,. or research papers. Artists pose a challenge; they and their works force us to grapple with intangibles, make us interpret and raise issu~s that may never· be clea-rly resolved. They may just be works of beauty worthy of our admiration. 1976 may not be the time for colleges to desire the abstract or intangible. Several students could not understand the worth of a serious arts program, it was just fun. There are immense benefits to an expanded Arts 'r, Program, diversity being one of them. Students concentrating in the arts are unique. They come from varied backgrounds; in a sense they are not mixed in the reality of everyday life. They are unique in that they see beyond right and wrong, they .challenge our. thoughts and they are valuable) very valuable. Arts majors are essential to the intellectual gr~wth 'of a student body, such as 'Union's. Another reaiity is that ·the arts appeal to females and the most uncultured Philistinian clout Continued on P~ge ll .. :. ' • A shov. made .by I over a per April 5 in through A \The S Print-mak represents students 1 Charles ~ class. The were don have b~en 300 prints +The S open l t< «Juration < admission This e~ the first woodcut from the A new make its College c~ sunday, A workshop in all of i1 ballads, . contempor• demonstra1 on the g1 mandolin, and the. h: I I 'TI 'Itt Tickets Ticket·

CONCORDIENSIS, Wednesday, Apri/7, 1976 Page 7 a-rts Student prints displayed I A show of about 40 prints made .by Union College students over a period of five years began April 5 in Nott Memorial and sun through April 10; \The Student Prints: Relief Pl'int-making at Union College\ represents the best works by students enrolled since 1971 in Charles Steckler's print-making class. The prints, most qf which were done by non-art majors, have been culled from more than 300 prints Steckler has collected. +The Student Prints\ will be open I to 5 p.m. daily for the duration of the show. There is no admission fee. This exhibition assembles for the first time examples of woodcut and linoleum prints from the past five years of relief printmaking at Union. These prints were fasnioned by the simplest and most ancient of means: upon a block of wood a drawing is made; knives, chisels and gouges are 1,1sed to cut 'away the white areas (the spaces) of the image. What remains (in relief) is inked with' a hand roller. Paper is spread over the block and rubbed evenly with a wooden spoon. The impression from the block is transferred to the. paper, the image is printed. The repertory of techniques includes but a few subtle refinements to these steps. The effective teaching and practice of relief printmaking ernbraces these techn.ical conditions and employs them in i nd i vi d u a I w a y s . T h e \handwriting\ m each print is • Folk mUSIC personal and distinctive. We may sense the very material process within these images, the struggle of the printmaker against the grain, the tenacious resistance of the wood, and then the agreement between. Sometimes vigorous and decisive, sometimes timid and acquiescent, a line or textural· passage will reveal the \hand.\ Remembering that the white areas have been removed from the wood, the black remaining, we are given a simple analog for the essential graphic idea e.mployed: Notan, the interaction· between positive and negative space. Through the unity of opposites white turns into black and creates a reality ·of the whole. These prints ask that you look at each of them twice: firstly, close up. Look as you might into a microscope. Then step back. U~til aU the microminutiae unscrables and resolves into· optical image. w·orkshop An enormous four foot by five foot woodcut of the Nott Memorial, the collaborative work of twenty students, will be featured. One student print among many on display in Nott Memorial. A new music workshop will make its debut on the Union College campus beginning this Sunday, Apr.il II. It will be a workshop devoted to folk music in all of its styles ~_traditional, ballads, . blues, ragtime and contemporary .. It will also feature demonstrations -and instruction on the guitar, the banjo, the mandolin, the piano, the bass, and the. harJllonica. [n residence ~': will be Jim Shorser, Stephen . Grayman,. Ruth Rappaport, and Leslie Goldstein sharing their tunes and listening to yours. So all · of you who ·may be aspiring musicians on any level or maybe just want to swap a song or two, bring your in~truments. and join us in Old Chapel this Sunday and every Sunday from 3-5 in the afternoon. Sandy Taylor's works. 'The Godfather' Part I APRIL 9-11 Friday at 10 P.M. Sat. & Sun. (NOTE!!) 't, 10 -TUESDAY, APRIL 13 'llov·e ·You, .AUc.e ·B. loki as' Tickets •t the door are St.iS & .75 for Tues. movies. Ticket ,bookie~ are still' on sale in Ms. Mana's office. Sandy Taylor: Alum calligrapher Sandy Taylor is a 1974 graduate of Union College. While at Union she majored in English and Art. During her years at the College, Ms. Taylor developed an interest in calligraphy. Ms. Taylor's case is a fine example of the possibilities of utilizing the Union Arts Department. Ms. Taylor became interested in calligraphy by accident. by DIANE NELSON professional. calligraphy. Although she realized she was not ready for the market, she wanted to at least inquire. Most of M·s. Taylor's visits to calligraphers and studios proved to be useless. However, she .luckily visited the studio of Ed Carroll, who has since been of great help to her. Mr. Carroll had been a calligrapher for forty years and Ms. Ta~rlor found his work to be extremely proficient. Mr. Carroll informed Sandy of Pentalic Corporation, a company run by a calligrapher named Louis Strick. This shop carries just about anything a calligrapher could want or need. Mr. Strick also has a room in New York City called the Calligraphy Workshop where Calligraphy classes are given. Sandy enrolled-in a special two- day workshop under the direction of Donald Jackson, the Queen of England's scribe. Ms. Taylor terms it \the most stimulating two days I have ever spent in my life. This workshop brought many local New York Calligraphers together and out of this, the Society of Scribes· was formed. This new society offers one day workshops taught by other members about . aU kinds of calligraphy-related subjects.\ An exhibition of calligraphy done by the members of the Society was on display at the Berp;en County Museum in Paramus, New Jersey this past fall. Ms. Taylor displayed three of her works in this show. Another show by the scribes is planned for June and July at the Donnell Library in New York City. The show celebrates the Bicentennial and Ms. Taylor hopes to submit works to this show as well. Sandy has been working in a bank and taking courses in art on the side. She admits it is frustrating to have a full time job Continued on Page I2 · Although she self-admittedly has little drawing talent, pen- and ink work had always interested her. Professor · Robert Moorehead agreed to allow Sandy to pursue an independent study project in pe~ nnd ink during the spring of 1973~, Half-way ·through the term, Sandy saw Professor Moorehead showing another sttrdent how to do some calligraphic alphabets. Excited by what she saw, Ms. Taylor's pen and ink work consisted solely of lettering from then on. That summer Sandy further pursued her newfound interest by taking a course in calligraphy at the Parson's School of Design. During her senior year, Sandy wrote an interdepartmental senior thesis on \The History and Development of Calligraphy in the Western World.\ The . thesis taught her a great deal and has proved of inestimable use evet since. Bla,ck Artists by DIANE NELSON While job-hunting in New York The art work of a people can provide insight inta their emotions and problems. \Black Artists in Historic Perspective,\ an exhibition which closed April 4 at the Schenectady Museum, City, Sandy looked into tt'he-re IS 11 differen~ettt •MCAT •LSAT . • GMAT • CPAT • VAT • GRE • OCAT • SAT Over 38 years of ~xperience and success. Small· classes. Voluminous home study matenals. Courses that are constantly updated. Centers open days and weeken(js all year. Complete tape facilities for .review of_ class lessons and for use of supplementary materials. Make-ups for m1ssed lessons at our centers. • NATIONAL MEDICAL & DENTAL BOARDS ... • ECFMG • FLEX . Flexible Programs and Hours BROOKLYN: . 212-· 33&·53oo t:Pfj· u! MANHA. TTAN: 212- 683·5005 Ill'• -n. LONG ~SlAND '516 -538·4555 ... N Or wnte to: 1675 E. 16th Street I!IIUC!II10NAL amR lTD Brooklyn, N.Y .• 11229 TEST .. PREPARATION · . . · SPECIALISTS SINCE 1938 Call Toll Ftee (outside N.Y. State) 800 - 221-9840 J .._ ____ For Affiliated Centers in Major U. S. Cities•--- .... ~ ,., awakened its viewers to an ii1CI'tiea'Sed awa.~ of people who figure greatly in America's history. Upon entering the show, the viewer was greeted by a display of crafts, photographs and, information .on local history. The photographs .are portraists dating in the mid 1800's. The inclusion of these portraits lend a sinse of reality to the exhibition. They force the awareness that real individuals, with. their own separate sets of day-to~day problems are involved. Unfortunately, most of the photographs dealt with just one family, the Douges, and diverse backgrounds could not be ascertained from the display. On a niore positive note, •h~ thirty-five paintings, drawi etchings. and sculptures wer diversified and thought-rJ\l.'»; collection. The lives of the ar dated from 1796 to the prese• the paintings were studied cl, various different outlooks problems. of the people cou seen to exist.

Page8 CONCORDIENSIS, Wednesday. Apri/7, 1976 from the bottom to nowhere National' news is an issue seldom dealt·wtth in the pages of this newspaper; campus news and events always seems like more than enough to keep us busy. Still, in this election year, the year of America's great Bicentennial sale, Concordy felt that observations on the declared candidates would prove helpful in illuminating election year decision- making. The task proved a difficult one this time around, what with the seeming anonymity of the· candidate field. It was decided that the best technique for selecting a supportable candidate would be to start at the bottom of the list and work our way up until (by the process of elimination) we would be advocating the candidacy of a surviving name. Several initial eliminations were easy: Ford had pardoned Nixon; Ronald Reagan had proved himself an actor over thirty years ago; George Wallace stubbornly continued to be George Wallace; Milton Shapp was the Sam Yorty of 1976. Still, as the process continued, we found ourselves with no candidate standing above any others to which we could firmly commit ourselves. While this may indicate a degree of apathy towards. the political system, it also may indicate how unimportant the job of President has become. The job's primary function now seems that· of elected symbol, a sort of human bald eagle-Liberty Bell combination to which we can look up, unafraid of impending embarrassing scandalous revelations. Is there such a candidate? Since Nixon's ·not the 'one' in '76, who is? In the long run, your guess is as good as ours. DLM 'water grade' cover-up Recently the Committee On Standing has approved a hike in the requirement for Dean's List from 3.00 to 3:35. Even more astonishing is the decision by the faculty to approve a proposal by the Presidential Advisory Board to ra~se the requirements of Latin Honors, effective for the Class of '77. Is this the faculty and administration's answer to the growing problem of grade inflation? If so the problem of grade inflation is more serious than it might appear. This indicates· a feeling by Union College educators that the problem of grade lies solely with the students. This is a gross misinterpretation of the root causes of grade inflation. · Rather than attempting to conceal the problem by imposing more stringent requiremertts on the students, a more viable. approach might be to examine· why faculty are unable to make more clear-cut distinctions in their evaluation of students' performance. Does the problem lie with Union's four point grading system? Is ,it the attitude of the faculty toward grades in general and what they really signify? Are t)nion faculty concerned with whether or not students from Union wi11 be able to compete with those from other colleges in the race to secure a position in graduate and professional schools? All of these and many more may be perpetuating the problem of grade inflation. But the solution will never be pinned down unless a conscious effort is made to define and solve the problems surrounding grade inflation. Glazing over the problem with cosmetic and superficial requirement increases is n·ot the answer. MRA . . Opinio,n: Senior thesis examined by LIZ PAVA The Senior Thesis has been the culmination of my academic endeavors at Union~ or so lam told. Actually,. it is not my purpose here either to support or t() denounce the requirement of the thesis in the Social Sciences. Rather, l would like to pose a number -of questions to which the · various departments .and the Educational Policy , Committee ought to address themselves in the ' near f!lture to ensure that the thesis actually proves to be a valuable learning experience and a valid academic expectation to impose on students. Of real concern is the lack of a unified educational philosophy on th.e part of the · various depa.nments o·n campus concerning the merits of the thesis. Since it is undertaken primarily by candidates for honors in departments outside of the Social Sciences, there must be reasons for limiting it in this wa,y, whether or not overwhelming Opinion: cortfidenc~ 1 not writing a thesis as either a requirement or an option should be made clear by the College. Attitudes towards theses as expressed by .diffeJent departments l}re a reflection of a divisional politics (e.g. sprue divisions e~tend professors course-load cr~dit .for advising a certain number of theses while others do not}, BJ the presence or lack of interest on the part . of professors for working with students in areas possibly outside of their own, C) are there other constraints? , The question of whether or not the senior year is actually the l>est time for embarking-on a two tenn. project is open to debate. There are some obvious difficulties involved in shifting the thesis requirement to the Junior or any other year. These include students going abroad, students not being sufficiently acquainted with the major, or among other fhings, students' abilities to judge what will interest them the most. On the other 'hand, there are some plausible argumentfl which l'it'Vor moving the thesis to tlfe Junior year, even spring of the Junior year and fall o( the Senior year. For exl!mple, students would be able to .apply the various. r~ea-rch techniques, _ writing e&perience, and actual knowleclge acquired on their own to future courses. Further, ¥~it-h respect to graduate schools at one sort or another, A) sty.d~nts. woulq have completed a very substantial piece of wot\ on 'his/ her own to present th ,such · sch<Jols; and· B) these stUdents would have at least one Professor who was well equipped to evaluate·. and recommend the student, to these schOols after . having worked together on a one to one basis4 It is interesting to note that while C(:)l!lrse work at Union is expected to be graded on the four point system. the thesis (and other tWo term projects). ~le actually graded on an eight point scale. Since neitheT an actual ~rade is Ccritinued on .Page 13 Hoor.ay for the RA! by PETE\R SOBOL our dormitory floors. We need All of us here at Union were people who will be able to handle top something or other in high the touchy situations which RA's schooL But merely being accepted always become involved in. An at Union does not guarantee one RA must he forceful; able. to a place in the real elite. Once one break up hockey games, wet- is a Union student, one still has to toilet-'paper fights, and verbal. get the nod from the Gatesmen, abuse wars with neighboring or the Committee on Committees, dormitories at midnight. An RA or the Delphic Society, to be truly must he an expert in self-defense; recognized as great. But of all the · able to disarm students carrying honorary positions which buckets, fire extinguishers, and ambitious maniacs can hope t-o lounge furniture. An RA must be achieve, the position of RA shines an escape artist, able to get out Qf above all others in its limitless a room even though pennied, tied, prestige. The road to RAship ~~ nailed or barricaded in. An RA long and difficult, filled with trial~ must be a · diplomat; able to tribulation and intrigue. ·· · placate the angry parents of a After all, we can't have any old freshman who lives downstllirs, bum off the street in charge of who want to know how a wastt:paper basket got emptied into their convertible, and able to convince the campus police that the 4:00 a.m. stereo concert came fro111 the, floor upstairs. A.n RA must 'have a long temper; able to, sit through endless meetings and able to fill out endless forms. · An RA ·must be a psychologist, able to 'handle the ups and down of the (loor residents. To do this, the RA must spend time on the floor with the IQvely little charges. But we must face it; we · all remember wlia't we :did to our .RA's; and, we .Ac'l\o~ :ihar th~ knew what they w~re getting intO', so there muM be some good CoatQI-.ed ora. Pag' 13 h2 cc at cc tr· · ni al at PI al d• pl .w a1 F a 0 0 II d t1 a li s• 0 c , (

Page8 CONCORDIENSJS, Wednesday, April 7, 1976 from the bottom to nowhere National news is an issue seldom dealt wtth in the pages of this newspaper; campus news and events always seems like more than enough to keep us busy. Still, in this election year, the year of America~s great Bicentennial sale, Concordy felt that observations on the declared candidates would prove helpful in illuminating election year decision- making. The task proved a difficult one this time around, what with the seeming anonymity of the candidate field. It was decided that the best technique for selecting a supportable candidate would be to start at the bottom of the list and work our way up until (by the process of elimination) we would be advocating the candidacy of a surviving name. Several initial eliminations were easy: Ford had pardoned Nixon; Ronald Reagan had proved himself an actor over thirty years ago; George Wallace stubbornly continued to be George Wallace; Milton Shapp was the Sam Yorty of 1976. Still, as the process continued, we found ourselves with no candidate standing above any others to which we could firmly commit ourselves. While this may indicate a degree of apathy towards the political system, it also may indicate how unimportant the job of President has become. The job's primary function now seems that of elected symbol, a sort of human bald eagle-Liberty Bell combination to which we can look up, unafraid of impending embarrassing scandalous revelations. Is there such a candidate? Since Nixon's not the 'one' in '76, who is? In the long run, your guess is as good as ours. DLM 'water grade' cover-up Recently the Committee On Standing has appro\'ed a hike in the requirement for Dean's List from 3.00 to 3.35. Even more astonishing is the decision by the faculty to approve a proposal by the Presidential Advisory Board to raise the requirements of Latin Honors, effective for the Class of '77. Is this the faculty and administration's answer to the growing problem of grade inflation? If so the problem of grade inflation is more serious than it might appear. This indicates· a feeling by Union College educators that the problem of grade lies solely with the students. This 1s a gross misinterpretation of the root causes of grade inflation. Rather than attempting to conceal the problem by imposing more stringent requirements on the students, a more viable. approach might be to examine why faculty are unable to make more clear-cut distinctions in their evaluation of students' performance. Does the problem lie with Union's four point grading system? Is .it the attitude of the faculty toward grades in general and what they really signify? Are Union faculty concerned with whether or not students from Union will be able to compete with those from other colleges in the race to secure a position in graduate and professional schools? All of these and many more may be perpetuating the problem of grade inflation. But the solution will never be pinned down unless a conscious effort is made to define and solve the problems surrounding grade inflation. Glazing over the problem with cosmetic and superficial requirement increases is not the answer. MRA Opinion: Senior thesis examined by LIZ PAVA The Senior Thesis has been the culmination of my academic endeavors at Union -- or so I am told. Actually, it is not my purpose here either to support or to denounce the requirement of the thesis in the Social Sciences. Rather, I would like to pose a number of questions to which the various departments and the Educational Policy Committee ought to address themselves in the ' near future to ensure that the thesis actually proves to be a valuable learning experience and a valid academic expectation to impose on students. Of real concern is the lack of a unified educational philosophy on the part of the various departments on campus concerning the merits of ti:Je thesis. Since it is undertaken primarily by candidates for honors in departments outside of the Social Sciences, there must be reasons for limiting it in this way, whether or not overwhelming Opinion: confidence. not writing a thesis as either a requirement or an option should be made clear by the CoUege. Attitudes towards theses as expressed by different departments are a reflection of a divisional politics (e.g. some divisions extend professo,rs course-load credit for advising a certain number of theses while others do not), E) the presence or lack of interest on tine part of professors for worki.ng with students in areas possibly outside of tl!teir own, C) are there other constraints\! The question of whether or not the senior year is actual'ly the best time for embarking on a two term project is open to debate. There are some obvious difficulties involved in ~h ifting the thesis requirement to the Junior or any other year. These include .students going abroad, students not being sufficiently acquainted with the major, or among other things, students' abilities to judge what will interest them ~he most. On the other hand, there are some plausible arguments which f'fivor moving the thesis to the Junior year, eveR spring of the .hmior year and fall of the Senior year. For example, students would be able to apply the various research techniques, writ~ng experience, and actual knowledge acquired on their ·own to future courses. Fu r~her, with respect to graduate schools of one sort or another, A) students would have compleled a very substantial piece of work on ·his: her own to present to such schools, and B) these students would have at least one Professor who was well equipped to evaluate and recommend the student to these schools after having worked together on a one to one basis. It i~ interesting to note that while course work at Union is expected to be graded on the four point system, the thesis (and other two term projects) tl. e actually graded on an eight point scale. Since neither an actual grade is Continued on Page 13 Hooray for the RA! by PETER SOBOL All of us here at Union were top something or other in high school. But merely being accepted at Union does not guarantee one a place in the real elite. Once one is a Union student, one still has to get the nod from the Gatesmen, or the Committee on Committees, or the Delphic Society, to be truly recognized as great. But of all the honorary positions which ambitious maniacs can hope to achieve, the position of RA shines above all others in its limitless prestige. The road to RAship is long and difficult, filled with trial, tribulation and intrigue. After all, we can't have any old bum off the street in charge of our dormitory floors. We need people who will be able to handle the touchy situations which RA's always become involved in. An RA must be forceful; able to break up hockey games, wet- toilet-paper fights. and verbal abuse wars with neighboring dormitories at midnight. An RA must be an expert in self-defense; able to disarm students carrying buckets, fire extinguishers, and lounge furniture. An RA must be an escape artist, able to get out of a room even though pennied, tied, nailed or barricaded in. An RA must be a diplomat; able to placate the angry parents of a freshman who lives downstairs, who want to know how a wastepaper basket got emptied into their convertible, and able to convince the campus police that the 4:00 a.m. stereo concert came from the floor upstairs. An RA must have a long temper; able to sit through endless meetings and able to fill out endless forms. An RA must be a psychologist, able to handle the ups and down of the floor residents. To do this, the RA must spend time on the floor with the lovely little charges. But we must face it; we all remember what we did to our RA's, and we know that they knew what they were getting into, so there must be some good Continued on Page 13 i. I I: I'! I t' i·· I i l I I : l I : i I 1 • 1 ·I t: ' h~ cc at cc tr m al a1 pl a1 dl p: w aJ F a 0 0 n d tl a li (J c ll a f

CONCORDIENSIS, Wednesday, April 7, 1976 Campaign '76: the great political abyss by HOWIE LAX Within the last 24 hours the greatest campaign ploy ever devised lo capture the yeuth vote came to me. Before turning thirty- five I simply have to take one or two courses at every college across the country. Then, with the support of thousands of homecoming speeches I can smile my way from coast to coast, blessing those schools for whom '\I hold a special place in my heart\ with a complete half-hour of my presen'ce. And just think! - if the particular school in question has one of the most beautiful campuses in the U.S., I'H be able to walk all the way from my car to the speaker's podium and back. (Maybe then I will revive J.F.K.\ physical Htness test.) But all that is for the future. On Friday afternoon, April 2, Union experienced the second coming of presidential aspirant (a Ia Democratic Party) Jimmy Carter. To a rather impressive crowd, by any standards (let alone typical Union turnouts), President Bonner presented the Georgia governor with an allusion to Chester A. Arthur, the only Opinion: U nionite ever to sit in the White House. This analogy must be carried one step further. A Carter presidency would reek of the same general mediocrity that Arthur's did some one-hundred years ago. Let us just hope that, should Carter's bid faU, he docs not get to the oval office the same way Chet did. In a searing speech wadded with controversial issues, Governor Carter took the novel position of being for the easing of income tax, full curtailing of government employment and taming of intlatiolil. The last third of his fifteen minute speech bla7.ed a dynamic path towards the revolutionary idea of ha'l'ing the names of primary candidates on the ballot in New York instead of anonymous proxies. The highlight of the entire affair was one almost embarrassing question about the contradiction in his pledge both to sell nwclear arms to other nations and his attempts to sell planes for Lockheed to Brazil. Mr. Carter neatly extricated himself from this web, and further shored ' up his platform by hammering one last two by four against corruption. My personal attacks on Mr. Carter aside, I would like to address myself to an issue which the Georgian touched on peripherally on friday leadership. Mr. Carter does not represent the enemy on the worst among a wide selection. Unfortunately he is typical of the mediocre field from which we are asked to choose. Neither party's offering a man of outstanding caliber that can command respect and lead this country. On the Republican side, we face the choice of an obviously incompetent incumbent or a wavering thespian. The Democrats are better {or worse) only in that they have a wider selection. Having sieved out the only two men I would have supported (not to mention the many more I would not hav\) they offer a field that is (at ieast) ideologically diffuse. But, politics aside, none of them are the type of man I want to sec as President. Wallace would be more at home running in Rhodesia or South Africa. Carter and Jackson run around saying the same things, differing only in their approach to securing the nomination. The former trying to smile his way in, Governor Jimmy the latter attempting to bomb his way to victory. Perhaps they should try as a P.R. man and a general, respectively. And Udall. Politically I support him to a far greater extent than I do any of Continued on Page II Students lack input in tenure process 1 recently became interested in the tenurability case of the psychology professor, Howard Berthold. After finally learning the facts of the case, there were a few major things that disturbed me which can be Felated to all students regardless of their major andt or opinion of this specific professor. One major concern of mine was the lack of student decision- by NEAL A. SCHWARTZ making power on campus in the tenure process, the appeal process, or even in the evaluation of student's standings. There is a committee called the Presidential Advisory Board ( P AB) consisting of 5 faculty members (Pres. Bonner, Prof. Wilson, Prof. Bick, Prof, Ketchum and Prof. Jonas) and 4 students (Dave Moskowitz, Sue Draper, Alan Gnessin and Karen Spar). When this committee decides on appeal decisions for tenure, the students are dropped and only the faculty members participate. There was a vote raised in this committee as to whether students should be allowed to sit on the decision making process dealing with the appeal of tenure decisions. Three students voted for this measure and five faculty members voted against it. Anyone can see that five is greater than three. This same logical mathematic relationship was seen in a vote in the All College Senate which saw the defeat of student participation in deciding the standing of their fellow students. Privacy was termed as the reason lor keeping students out. This appears to he a direct insinuation that we arc not old enough to know what is good for us or that we'll start spreading \private\ topics that should better be left unsaid. I took a course in Psychology at this school for two terms in which I was given superlative instruction. Ihe students were respected tor their merit as people; rather than feeling like students looking for a grade; v.e were treated like and thus acted like adults. I felt as it I were a scholar. e\en though I was clas~ilied as a student by #790761. I wish I felt that way about some ol the decisions that directly influence me at this college. Yes. it mat!crs tu me if a profcswr gets tenure or not. and I think the students arc the best judges of character. Students arc the ones that sit in that classroom every day. I am astonished at the administration's attitude that as students we arc not able to participate in the~c decisions. Come to a dance ... At the Zoo. On Saturday night starting at 9:00 the gym will be transformed into what will resemble a zoo. Come as an animal or come as yourself, but come and dance to The Beatles, The Blackbirds, The Turtles, The Byrds, and of course The Animals Admission is free and beer is 25~&. Sponsored by the Union College Social Committee with remote by WRUC. It's becoming harder and harder to justify playing the role of student for a person in his 20's. How many years can we be children? If students show that they are responsible and are showing interest in matters that directly affect them. then I see no reason why they shouldn't be allowed to act as adults at least once in a while. They would not treat us as kids but would rather give us the benefit of the doubt in regard to the \privacy\ that would be abused if students entered these committees on appealing tenure decisions and standing on students. All I can umon college say is that \Who is this school for anyway? The students or ... \ If the answer is the students, then they should be made aware of how and why decisions were reached which directly affect them. Certainly, if students were told of untouchable topics, ali is done in the R.A. selection, they would not speak of the deliberations that occurred. A little trust can go a long way. If ll nion was truly interested in the education and the growth of individuals. they would nnt hlock the students· effort in the directions indicated recently. Concordiensis EDITORS-IN-CH IFF. ctiLTURE ............. .. NEWS ............ . FEATl'RFS .... .. SPORTS ....... . I 1\ YO tiT ...... . CLASSIFIFDS ADS ................... . M1chael Affinito, Da\Jd ~o,kcmltl ..... Sue Finkelstein. Diane ~elson .. Audrey Rothschild .. Sue Draper lt1hn Bu,terud. Charlie Flanagan. Allyne Price ...... Lance Travis ART ...................................... . . ... Hope Fahian Shervl Farher. Rhonda Kaplan .. I e•ter Weiss . Gr~)l Cohen .J('Ie C'appUCC10 . .. Jack P1tney Tndd Miller PHOTO EDITOR ... . CALENDAR. CJRctiJ ATlO~ co:-;TR!Rl'TI~G EDITOR ... COPY ................ . SUBSCRIPTIONS .. . NATJO:-;AL ADS .. . PHOTOGR 1\PHY ·· ·· ...... STAFF THIS lSS~'F ... ... She lie~ Gold .. Ste1 e Kell~ Ken ~cKenne. Mike Rotundi. Rudy I.u. Sue Kaplan, Kevin Schar~. Alan Stern. Dave Grossman. R('\h Mondschein, Beth Karlin. Debby Kaufman. I ori Greene .. ........ Sue Kronish. Arnie Hiller. Nell Schwart1. Pete Sohol. Carol Vene1ia. Roh Weinstein. Liz Pa\a, Dan Ro\enhaum Jnhn Knudsen. Matt Brief CONCORDIENSIS is published every Wednesday by the student body of Union College, Old Gym Hall, Schenectady, N.Y.; to which Postal F'orms 3579 are directed. Publications Office: The Jewish World Publications, 416 Smith St., Schenectady, N.Y. 12305 (370-5483). Entered in the Schenectady Post Office as Second Class Matter. Subscription Rate 3S cents per copy. 58.00 a year delivered anywhere in the United States.

CONCORDIENSJS, Wednesday. Apri/7, 1976 • ' < •• ' ' ·:- •• - :- v¥' . '- \! • - ' ' • . ' ~ ;. .. -' •.• ?. : 0 .•. ptnton: . . ......... \ ~ . ..... . ~ .._, . Campaign '7 6: the great political· abyss by HOWIE LAX Within the last 24 hours the greatest campaign ploy ever devised to capt1,ue the youth vote came to me. Before turning thirty- fiVe t simply have to take one or two courses at every college across the country. Then, with the suppmt of thousands of homecoming speeches I can smile my way from coast to coast, ble!)si.ng those schools for whom \1 hold a special; place in my heart\ with a ·complete ha:lf-hour of my presence. And just think! ~ if the particular school in question has one -of the most beautiful campuses in the u.s.; I'll he able to walk all the way from my car to the speakefs podium aQd back. (Maybe then 1 will revive J.F.K.'s physical fitness test.} Btit all thatis for the future. On Friday afternoon, April 2, Union· experiertc~d the :second coming of presidential aspirant (a · Ia Democratic Party) Ji.mi:ny Carter. To a rather impressive crowd, by any s\and~rds (let alone typicat Union turnouts), President Bonner presented the Georgia governor with an allusion to Chester ~. Arthur, the only Opinio-n:. Unionite ever to sit in the White House. 1his analogy must be carried one step further. A Carter presidency would Feek ·Of the same general mediocrity that Arthur;s did some one..:hundred years ago. L~t us just hope that, should Carter's bid fail, he does not get to fhe oval office the same way Chet did. In a searing speech wadded with controversial issu.es, Governor Car..ter took the novel position of being for the easing of income ta~. full curtailing of government employment and taming of jpflatkm .. The last third of his fifteen minute speech btazeQ a dynamic path towards the revolutionary idea of having the names of primary candidates on the baHotin New York instead of anonymous proxies. The highlight of the en:tir.e a ffai.r W.as one il lm<JS t embarrassing question about the contradiction iti his pledge both to sell nuclear arm~ .to other nations ~nd his attempts to sell planes for Lockheed to Brazil. Mr. Carter neatly extricated himself f;romthis web; and further shored up bis platform by hammering one last two by _follr against corruption. My personal attacks on Mr. Carter aside, I would .like to address myself to an issue which the Georgian touche~ on peripherally on Friday leadership. Mr. Carter does not represent the enemy on the worst among a wide .selection. Unfortunately he is typical of the mediocre field from which we are asked to choose. Neither party's offering a man of outstanding caliber that can command respect and lead this country. On the Republican side, we face the choice of an obviously incompetent incumbent or a wavering thespian. The Democrats are better (or worse) only in that they have a wider selection. Having sieved out the onl:y two men I would have supported (not to mention the many more I would not hav\) fhey offer a field that is (at least) ideologically diffuse. But, politics aside, none of them are the type of man I want to see as President. Wallace would be more at home running in Rhodesia or South Africa. Carter and Jackson run around saying the same things, differing only in their approach to securing the nomination. The former trying to smile his way in, Go_vernor Jimmy the latter attempting to bomb his way to victory. Perhaps they should try as· a P.R. man and a general, respectively. And Udall. Politically I support him to a far greater extent than I do any of Continued on Page 11 Students lack input in tenure pr~cess recently became interested in the tenurability case of the psychology professor, Howard Berthold. After finally learning the facts o'f the case, there were a few major things that disturbed me which can be related to a:ll sludents regardless of their major andlor opinion of this specific professor. One major concern of mine was the lack of student decision- by NEAL A. SCHWARTZ making power on campus in the tenure process, the appeal ptocess, or even in the evaluation of student's standings. There is a committee called the Presidential Advisory Board (PAB) consistjng of. 5 faculty members {Pres. Bonner, Pmf. Wilson, .Prof.. Bick, Prof, Ketchum and Prof. Jonas} and 4 students (Dave Moskowitz, Sue Draper, Alan Gnessin and Karen Spar). When this committee decides on appeal decisions for tenure, the students are dropped and only the faculty members p.articipate. There was a vote raised in this committee as to whether .students should be allowed to sit o,q. the decision .. m~~lpg PfoOSf~s ,d~ling , with the appeal of tenure decisions. Three students. voted for this measure and five faculty members voted against it. Anyone can see that five is greater than three. This same logical mathematic . relationship was seen in a vote in the All College Senate which' saw the defeat of student participation in deciding the standing of their fellow students. Privacy was termed as the reason for keeping students out. This appears to be a direct insinuation that we are not old enough to know what is good for us or that we'll start spreading \private\ topics that should better be left unsaid. l took a course in Psychology at this school for two terms in which l was given superlative instruction. The students were respected for their merit as people; rather than feeling like students looking for a grade; we were treated like and thus acted like adults. 1 felt as if I were a scholar, even though I was classified as a student by #790761. I wish I felt that way about some of the decisions that directly influence me at this college. Yes, it matters to me if a professor gets tenure or not, and I think the students are the best judges of character. Students are the ones that sit in that classroom every day. I am astonished at the administration's aUitude that as students we are not able to participate in these decisions. 'Come to a dance ... At the Zoo. On Saturday night starting at 9:00 the gym will be transformed into what will resemble a zoo. Come as an animal or come as yourself, but come and dance to The Beath~s; The IUackbirds, The Tur.tles, The Byrds, and of course The Animals Admission is free and beer is 25~. Sponsored by the Union College Social Committee with remote by WRUC. It's becoming harder and harder to justify playing the role of ·student for a person in his 20's. How many years can we be children'? If. students , show that they are responsible and are showing interest in matters that directly affect them, then l see no reason why they shouldn't ~e allowed to acl as adults - at least once in a while. They would not treat us as kids but would rather give us the benefit of the doubt in regard to the \privacy\ that would be abused if students entered these committees on appealing tenure decisions and standing on students. All I can unton college say is that \Who is this school for anyway? The students or .... \ If the answer is the students, then they should be made aware of how and why decisions were reached which directly affect them. Certainly, if students were told of untoucllable topics, illS is done in. the .R.A .selectien, they would not speak , of the deliberations that occurred. A little trust can go a long way. If Union was truly interested in the education and th~ growth of individuals, they would not block the students' effort in the directions indicated recently. Concordiensis EDITORS-IN-CHIEF ................................ Michael Affinito, David Moskowitz CULTURE .......................................................... Sue Finkelstein. Diane Nelson NEWS ....................... , ........................................................... Audrey Rothschild FEATURES ...................................................................................... Sue Draper SPORTS ....................................................... John Busterud, Charlie Flanagan, Allyne Price LAYOUT ....................... -. .... · ........................................................... Lance Travis CLASSIFIEDS ............................................................................. Hope Fabian ADS ............................. < ..................................... Sheryl Farber, Rhonda Kaplan ART .......................................................................... ; ..................... Lester Weiss PHOTO EDITOR ............................................................................ Greg Cohen CALENDAR, CIRCULATION .................................................. Joe Cappuccio CONTRIBUTING EDITOR ...................................................... , .... Jack Pitney ·COPY ............... , ... , ......................................................................... .Todd Miller SUBSCRIPTIONS. ......................................................... , ................ Shelley Gold NATIONAL ADS, ........................... ,, ............................................... Steve Kelly PHOTOGRAPHY ............................................... Ken McKenzie, Mike Rqttindi, · · ·· Rudy Lu. Sue Kaplan, Kevin.Schary, · Alan Stern, Dave Gros~rnan, Rob M ondschein, Beth Karlin, Debby Kaufman, Lori Greene STAFF THIS ISSUE ................................................ Sue Kronish. Arnie Hiller, Neil Schwartz. Pete Sobol, Carol Venezia, Bob Weinstein, Liz Pava, Dan Rosenbaum. John Knudsen, Matt Brief CONCORDIENSIS is published every Wednesday by the student body of Union Coll~ge, Old Gym Hall, Schenectady, N.Y.; to which Postal Forms 3579 are direc:ted. Publications Office: The Jewish World Publications, 416 Smith St., .Schenectady, N.Y.12305 (370-5483). Entered in the Schenectady Post Office as Second Class Matter. Subscription Rate 35 cents per copy. _58.00 a year delivered anywhere in the United States.

Page 10 '\ •'. ,. ~ . CONCORDlEN.SJS .. , Wednesday, April?, 1976 Russell Baker: A satirist for ·all seasons Why are you a writer? There's nothing I do better. I've always liked to write and it happens that I do it well enough to get paid for it. Do you think that your columns help improve the world? No. Any columnist thatthinks that needs a cold bath. I'm not interested in improving the world; I'm just interested in doing a little entertainment. Why do you write so much in the form of satire? That seems to be a form that's ideally suited for handling public events at a time like this. It's so monstrous, so much that goes on, that to do it seriously would be terribly depressing. I find you can put a lot of the monstrosity into focus by putting it into satirical forms. Do the people you write about read your articles? I don't know. People that you write about never complain. There's no way ... that somebody can win by getting into a competition with a humorist. It's like trying to heckle a nightclub comic: you're always going to get the worst of it Which national politicians would be least likely to understand subtle satire? I would put Strom Thurmond at the very top of that list. Barry Goldwater ... is all aboil in rage. :Isn't Goldwater supposed to be an amiable person? He's a practical jQker. His idea of a joke is to put rats in somebody's swimming suit. He's basically· a fraternity-house kind ·of guy. I don't mean to suggest that he isn't good fun, but satire would just strike him as barbaric and crueL llo you think that Jimmy Caner's \Good old boy\ image is real or contrived? • by JACK PITNEY After all, you've got to remember about Carter that he went to the Naval Academy, which is not famous for turning out \good old boys.\ Its best graduates tend to be rath.fr abstract intellectua·ls who run t~~ defense establishment at the Pentagon and usually run it rather well. No, I think ·of him as probably a rather slick figure .. Do Americans really want a President who's smarter than they are? I don't think that that bothers Americans. One thing they don't like ... is for Presidents to seem frivolous. 1 think the one unfo.rgiveable quality in a President, the one quality for which the voters will not forgive hitn, is the refusa'l to be absolutely solemn at the drop of a hat. They expect the President to be almost a parsonic figure. How, then, do you account .for John Kennedy's success? John Kennedy was not as successful as the myth wou.ld have it. At the time he was killed, he had tremendous opposition in the country, particularly in the South. He had barely beaten Nixon in 1960, and if you just ·barely beat Nixon, there's something wrong. You have to remember that Kennedy's great popularity is retroactive; it began with the assassination. Is Truman's retroactive popularity justified? Phi Beta Kappa revises bylaws Truman looks pretty good now that you look back over the Presidents we~ve had since Roosevelt ... Harry Truman's history is always being revised .. At the time he was President,· he was widely considered a third-rate guy. His beating Dewey in 1 48 was considered a fluke made possible by the assininity of Thomas E. Dewey. Then everyhody revised history and Arthur Schles~nger said that he'd be rated among the great Presidents. And then with the Vietnam War, another revision came along and the advanced revisionist historians are now saying that he was a terrible Cold Warrior. So it's hard to say which way It's going· to go with Truman. The Union College chapter of the national honor society for scholars, Phi Beta Kappa, has revised its rules governing the election of new members. The new by~laws, which take effect this year (in time for the April, 1976 election), stipulate that two criteria are to ~ applied in electing students to the society: in order · to be elected, each candidate must henceforth show both intellectual maturity and a broad ba!te of learning experience. As before~ all seniors whose pga falls in the top seven percent of their class and a;H Juniors with . indices in the upper two percent 'of their class will automatically qualify for consideration. Howevet, studefits who ant not thus eligible may nevertheless become candidates for election upon the recommendation of either two faculty members or of one full-time faculty member and one other campus chapter member. The text of the revised by-laws follows: Revised By-Laws Concerning EJection Sect, I Seniors and juniors who have been for five or more terms (or three or more semesters) candidates for the A.B. or B.S. ,<not in engineering) degrees at Union College may be elected to regular membership in this society on the basis of scholarship and character. Se.ct. 2 (I) Of the students eligible under Section I, seniors who · stand in the upper seven percent of their class (inclusive of those ,.elected in their junior year) shall automatically be considered for election by the Chapter. (2) In addition, the Chapter may also consider for election any senior eligible under Section I upon prior written nqmination by either any two full-time members of the College faculty or by two campus members '6f Phi Beta Kappa provided that 'at least one of these members be a fuH-time member of the College faculty. (J) The normal. expectation will be that the Chapter shall consider for election no less than· ten percent of the Senior class; but in any event, the Chapter shall not elect more than twelve percent of the senior class inclusive of any student(s) who may have been elected as a junior. (4) Juniors who stand in the top two percent of their class shall also be automatically considered for election. Sect. 3 Any student election by the normally meet criteria with scholarship: considered for Chapter should the following respect to by PHIL ALCABES .a. Breadth of educational experience which requires basic acquaintance with the disciplines of the arts and humanities, the soci:al sciences, and the natural and physical sciences. b. Some evidence of intellectual maturity. This evidence shall take the form of .a statement from a candidate's academic advisor or other faculty member under whom the candidate has worked. Sect. 4 There shall be only one election each year of undergraduates, and it shall normally be held as soon as feasible after the marking period which precedes the final marking period at the end of the academic year. On the three term calendar, this would be at the beginning of the third term;· on the semester calendar, it would be at the beginning of the spring semester. The chapter's intent in revising the election procedure is to open membership to students of intellectual merit whose Class ran·k alone would have excluded them. Three types of student who might previously have been ineligible were considered: the \late bloomer,\ whose index suffered in a bad freshman year; the student of \inquiring mind,\ who attaches little importance to grades but \whose academic seriousness has consistently led him/ her into a serious dialogue with instructors;\ the student with a mediocre record who is disth1guished by a \single act of genius,\ one accomplishment of merit truly extraordinary to the usual under- graduate experience. The criteria which the chapter is to apply in actually electing to Phi Beta Kappa an eligible student are delineated in the new by-law: first, the candidate must show breadth of educational experience, that is, knowledge which covers more than a single narrow field; technically, the ' student must have completed course work in each of the three general areas ;- the humanities, the social sciences, and the natural and physical sciences - which comprise the liberal arts education. Second, the candidate must show \intellectual maturity\ - curiosity and creativity. This criterion will be evaluated by the chapter members on the basis of faculty reports, including the nominating recommendations for those students who are not automatically examined because of their grades. These references should provide specific evidence of the student's ability to undertake intellectual effort independently, to consider the broad theoretical questions surrounding a specific topic, t.o relate· ideas of one discipline to those of another, and to show insight in formulating questions. The other criterion, that of intellectual breadth, will be evaluated by the chapter dir.ectly on the basis of ~n analysis· of the candidate's transcripts. A student whose faculty references indicate he lacks sufficient \intellectual maturity\- will not be elected, however, regardless of the range of disciplines he has studied. More of the ·Ninth- · of sound. The ;finale is a bit fast, but the transitions brilliant. All in all, for me this \Eroica\ ranks along with Toscannini's as the best available. The introduction to the fourth has the mysterious quality of deep introspecti<;Jn. Then the orchestra breaks into the opening allegro, bursting with energy, but avoiding excessive heaviness as in the First and Second symphonies. The following movements are charming, and the finale is marvelous. The Fifth by contrast is powerful. The first movement drives on with relentless energy, the second movement flows with lyricism, and the scherzo and finale blaze forth in total triumi .1. Szell brings out the heavy artillery for this one, and the only serous flaw in the entire performance is the omission of-.the repeat in the opening movement. Otherwise, this is · an excellent Fifth. The Sixth, or \Pastoral\ Symphony, exudes in lyricism. Once again the precision· of the Clevelanders is Continued from Page Ci apparent. The string section performs admirably througJ10ut the work. The thunderStorm is turbulent enough, and the finale .actually verges on the edge of romanticism. On the other hand, the Seventh Symphony strikes me as a little unorthodox. The first movement is the best I've heard, even though the flute solo is lacking in energy at the beginning of the vivace. The second movement is simply too fast. The scherzo is impressive, though somewhat rushed in the trio section. The finale is straight forwaro, swift, and savage, capturing the anarchical spirit of this bacchanalian symphony. The Eighth is magnificent in almost every way, and unlike most conductors, Szell avoids the fatal pitfall of taking the third movement too seriously. The first movement of the Ninth is devastating. ·The playing is excellent, and the interpretation - though highly personal - works very vrell. The second movement is crisp and t:uJJ of life. SzeU observes ali\ the repeats in this greatest of scherzos, and drives on with relentless energy. The adagio is a little fast for me, although the Cl~veland strings sing out\with the .utmost clarity. The finale is somewhat pushed. The chorus perforrns very well, while the soloists are somewhat of a disappointment. ihe concluding measures are the best in the entire movement. Szell. drives the orchestra home with tremendous force, and the movement closes in total triumph. Jn sum, the Szell set is unusually good, though •far from perfect. In the final analysis the real musical conniseur ·would be better .off buying each symphony separately. Yet Szell's traversal of the Beethoven Nine still constitutes, in my mind, the best box set available. Certainly anyone looking for- nine good performances at a reasonable price cannot go wrong with it - it's a best buy. Pub's grand o.pe~ing Rest&urant. Along with dinners, you are entitled to feast upon unlimited salad and bread. \Special Night,\ each Thursday, spotlights a particular style of cuisine. wtiile on Friday and Saturday, dinner menus provide a more diverse assortment of entrees. After having sampled the \restaurant\ on two separate occasions we are able to make certain observations. Even when crowded the service proved to be both friendJy and . efficient. However, the food itself Was somewhat of a disappointment in that it was ·served warm rather than .hot, and in general tended to be overcooked. There seemed to have been some improvement between Thursday· and Saturday evening dinners, altho1.1gh it Was Continued from Page l still not up to our expectations. Hopefully, the quality and preparation of the food served will change with time in order to make the \restaurant\ aspect of the Dutch Hollow more appealing. According to Mr. Mazzone the Pub is only seeking to break even with its menu. He accepts the fact that the potentia.! profit rests upon the bar itself. In response to criticism, the · bartenders have increased the amount of alcohol used in a drink to I Y4 ounces. The current price of mixed drinks; $.95, seems to be within reason. The price of beer (light and dark Schlitz) is higher perhaps than it should be, but .. Mazzone openly admits that this is done to aVoid an exceptionally rowdy crowd, which he finds to be characte.ristic of the Rathskeller. The responsibility of truly incorporating the Dutch Hollow into the Union Community rests with student and (!lculty feedback. It Was made clear at the dedication of the Dutch· Hollow this past Tuesday that it is tile residents of this college, and in . ·particular the students, who actually own the Pub. Accordingly, profits beyond a certain point will be channeled back into Student Activities. Any constructive comments will be greatly appreciated, and carefully considered. ihe Pub also would welcome anyone who wishes to display his/her artwor.k in the Dut~h Hollow, and asks that you please contact Angelo 1 .Mazzone,, Donna Richjki or Diana leyden. -- E: by So y you hi Term a friends. rebate just col to ta Schwin fenders just fel Fraterr better new m: off wit it's Schene food j own .. 1 are f: togeth€ you go Well your o was y< your VI kind o my rel up wit EA'lT FOR EXE~ Clu1 the 01 fast-fo coffee Highli '\Trucl boiled laced honey of b'l will 'h G direl to 'j haV( plan resp vari· fresl at 1 -offe the bee1 pac• am and Pat trie bro cer-1 be witl con boE but Fl:if s AC( gui; Thf mu: is h nee or 1 (Sv of1 Th• (S. wh To ne• Sa is COl fee bel eff Gf A to efl Fi th:

CONCORDlENSIS. Wednesday, April 7, 1976 '. Page 11 Eating alternatives for the Union study break Again, these prices are tailored to the spendthrift pocket. My researcher suggested that I mention another appealing point about Hot-To- Trots. . Every customer is supplied with a free bumper-sticker saving \Honk if You're Horny.\ We know' this quite enjoyable. The manager, Dorothy's best-friend's aunt's daughter's hiar•stylist, Ron Lapuccioione, asked us to mention that all the hamburgers and hot-dogs are prepared followi!}g Dorothy's own recipes. Apparently Dorothy is a whiz in the kitchen,. and her Lipton's Onion Soup-burger is out of this world. j • f I s by AUBREY CARTON So your Daddy has just lent you his El Dorado for Spring Term and you w&nt to take your friend's. out for a cruise. Your .tax rebate from your summer job's just cotne through and you want to take your second-hand Schwinn suburban (with no fenders) out for a spin, .. Or you just fell in love with a handsome Fraternity man who has nothing better to do with his spanking new maroon BMW than to buzz off with you to the Crosstown, it's SPRING, and the Schenectady night'-life. of fast food joints has come into its own .. The choices of places to go are fat away and · clustered together; the problem is where do you go? way back to your bio-notes, The prices are low and the atmosphere will serve as pure inspirat10ti tor those interested in doing photographic essays on of \amore'' Hot-To-Trot's will personalize anyone's hamburger with notes (of the customer's choosing) written in spray chedder cheese. For those' who cannot coordinate tongue and heart,. this might be just the thing for lettiog that special someone know you care. And as Hot'\:To- Trot's has a· take'-out • service might be just the thing for the hio student who raes a food break in the middle of his final. Americana. Hot To Trot's: This unique dining emporium (managed by a pair of excommunicated Quakers) opened last fall, and has now expanded its services to extend throughout the tri-state area. Specializing in the cMisine . placr;:: will continue to enhance the tri~state .11-rea with peace, love, and dynamite cole-slaw foroever. Dorothy Hamill's Skate-Away: My researchers and I have unanimously agreed that this new hot-spot will create havoc among hockey-groupies. Now in its third week of operation, The Skate- A way seems to be doing a flourishing buiness. The ddnks (Tab, Fresca; Diet-Rite, and New Pepsi-Light) are served to you in the comfort and privacy of your own booth by roller-skating waitresses in sweat-suits. At the cashier's counter is (how classy can you get) a referral service whereby any young co-ed can find out where to go in the tri- state area to ,get an original Dorothy Hamill hair-cut. And plastic replicas of Dorothy's famous glasses can be purchased for a mere $1,39. (non- prescription) Aside from the delightful atmosphere, the food is Well, gone are the days when your only mode of transportation was your flexable flyer, so with your wheels actually getting some kind of traction on the pavement, my researchers and l have come up with the following ... EATING ALTERNATIVES FOR tHE UNION COLLEGE EXECUTIVE STUDY BREAK Clutch-a-cup: Located j1,1st on the outskirts of town this new fast-food ch~tri . s}f~cializes in coffee fr,om all over the nation. Highlighted on the menu is the \Trucker's Cup\. \this blend of boiled, 3-day ol(l~ Mai{well Rouse laced wi$ Vivaiirl .. and organic honey ·~served with ·a side· order of buttered quick;.energy bars) will 'hrake you Java·jiye\an the Gary Hipp, the resident director of Saga, was interviewed to 'flhd Ciut whaf 'iirrproveffi.ents have been made and those planned for' the future. In response to the request for more varied and interesting foods, more fresh fruit has been offered, and at lunch, deli meat is how being offered. The number of times that the menu includes roast heef has· been increased. For a c mge of pace, there is a special ev.:nt once a month such, as .the special decor and· food presented on St. Patricks Day last term. They have tried to vary the menus, but it was brought out that there are only a certain number of foods that can be served that would keep Saga within their budget. To jncrease communications, a suggestion board has been placed in West, but has not been used very much. ~.,~~___.....--.. Abyss Co~tiriued frorn Page 9 the others, but I would ·not be happy seeing him at the helm. of our government. He fails to provide any, assurance or com_mand confidence. Why we ar~ in this dilemma where we. are forced to choose A Food Committee consisting of boxes were good for the entire between ScyHa or Charybdis~ l · students has also been organized term. The reason given for this cannot say. It seems tnat such · . by .S,ag~. they, meet t\,Vif::e a mqnth\ ch!!n$e. i~ th(lt t~r. ll}e;*oq ~~ed ·elections have been fairly for the p1.1;rpose: .Qf better, close.r ·. last term. \¥\\S j).lst .tsw e.xpen~ivr.· . commmi .. ol,l qoth the. .national.and'- relations between Saga and the The future of Sa~a, as Umon s · loca.llevels over the last few y~ars. · students. They also plan to use food service is going to be. This is where my problem first Concordiensis :more effectively in determined in the next few weeks. begins. I feel every citizen · is the future as a medium to It is apparent that they have made obligated to vote, so I must make communicate. many attempts at improvement; some selection. But do I throw The environment in which the but have they been enough'? This my support (one whole vote) to food is served has a definite effect is what the Food Committee is some rhetorician who I think on how the students react to the going to have to decide in 4 would make an incompetent food. Saga has tried to improve weeks. When asked,. Debbie President, or do l log a protesr the surroundings by putting up Ki]gus said that the final decision vote by marking off the box next posters and just this past .c~ncerning, Saga would probably to the omnipresent Gus Hall? Is vacation; by painting the be made by the Food Committee, registering such a vote a viable moldings. the Comptroller, the Student Life solution'? Should I vote for the Saga seemed to dig their grave Committee, and others in the man I -can generally support, a tittle deeper this term by administration. I just hope that Udall, but whose personality changing the option plans back to peace comes soon in the Fastro- might be catastropic? Where is the format of the first term where Intestinal War for injuries are James David Barber? the boxes are good for one week mounting on both sides, and who Contrary to what you probably only. This outraged many knows how much longer the think, I will not now unveil to students who liked the idea that students' stomachs can last. you some all compelling reason for you to support candidate X. Quite to the contrary, l stand here Records reviewed helpless WQndering where my convictions will lead me in November and worrying whether we shall ever again see a candidate dynamic enough to draw us out of this political abyss. Friend.\ A magnificent job. A· With three new late-night places to check out, we should be seeing nore smiling faces around campus this spring. We suggest, however, that before taking road- trips to satisfy your appetite alarm, all students should at least make an effort to support Union's own late-night places to be. Bon Appetite. Berthold Continued from Page 4 decision of another committee;\ \A teacher rated as excellent by the committee which soon gives him the axe is rather strange;\ \it used to be the ·quantity of research on which they would snag professors denying them tenure - now it is the quality of their re!!earch.\ Nearly half of the school signed the Berthold tenure petition, which can be obtained by contacting Neil Schwartz - in 251 Fox. This petition is one of thB' items which will be considered by the Presidential Advisory Board in its final review. \Not to kill time but to '\!\tJCf,. I • WAIIC FM 90.3mHz We bring you fine music AND dozens of interesting events ~ live· and without commercials. Sit in with us at the National Press Club. where the next day's head- lines are often made. Enjoy \All Thin$:Js Considered,\ a .fascinating magazine of news and issues. (Nothing else like it in broadcasting!) Savor some of the most satisfying thea- tre productions ever aired. Revel in delightful, intelligent conversation. WAMC Albany Medical College Albany, New York 12208 D National. Public Radio lor eastern New York o/ and western New England Steve Hackett, Voyage Of The Acolyte (Chrysalis). Genesis guiartist bombs in solo debut. The artwork is beautiful. The music is borin,g. Much of Genesis is here, but it doesn't help. If you need a Genesis fix, buy A Trick Of The Tail. C Continued from Page 6 Moon; Be-Bop Deluxe is the best album thus far this year. For that matter, it just may be better than anything that came out last year, too. God only knows why the band is called Be-Bop. They play tasteful &traight-ahead rock, Bill Nelson, the guitarist and producer for the band, is being touted.. as the new Eric Clapton. While I hate to label anyone as the new anything, I am inclined to agree. His guitar flows in and out with almost as much dexterity . as though Lloyd George were playing, yet he has the ability to take charge like Peter Townshend. Sil}lply magnificent. For guitar freaks one and all, and if you aren't a guitar freak now, this album should convert you. Special mention should also go to Andrew Clark (keyboards), Charles Tumahai (bass and percussion) and especially., Simon Fox (drums). Just a stunning debut. A++ Sym posi urn viewed The Pretty Things, Savage Eye (Swan Song). The Prettys are one of the original blooze-rock bands. They wrote the first rock opera (S.F. Sorrow, just re-released), which influenced the Who's Tommy. For some reason, they never. made it in the States. Savage Eye should change that. lt is diverse, although a bit· commercial. There is a slight feeling of having heard soine of it before, but it doesn't kill the effect. At times they sound like Genesis, at others, almost top 40. A taste for the Prettys almost has to be acquired. It's 'worth the effort, though. 8+ Be-Bop Deluxe, Sunburst Finish (Harvest). From the label that gave ·~ou l)ar.k Side Of The 374-5921 GEORGE'S MUSIC STORE- student Discounts 508 State St. Schenectady . THE.FILM COMMITTEE Presents tlSoun·d of Music\ T.onight and Tomorrow at 7:30 Continued from Page 6 must realize that more females are important to this campus. But I have digressed from the point. We talked and talked in~my group, often in ignorance, unaware of the value of the arts. Yet if we do not understand what the aits are and their value, we cannot dis~ern what specific programs Union needs in the arts. One . thing is eminently clear; Union needs a dynamic, thriving arts community of high aesthetic value that will challenge us and free us to wrestle with our intellectual capacities. We may need larger studios, more arts professors. eVen a new arts- theater complex. But first, all of us need to learn through more aft history courses, through exposure to Works ol aft, what the arts are and what they. can be. When we realize we are in college to be challenged, to grapple with perhaps unanswerable issues, then we will understand the intrinsic worth of the arts. Before we erect arts complexes, let us try to realize the arts are more than just fun, they are as serious as chemistry, political science, or cmputer science. I think the place to start is with an increased curriculum of art history and appreciation courses. Symposiums are nice, important, but they are no substitute for the solid foundation we· all need in the arts. This is a liberal arts school folks.

Cii!fC:ORDfENSlS,· Werlnesqay, April.\' 191§ . - ' . Springtime: sto:rie' s throw -from paradise by SUE FINKELSTEIN Schenectady is finally starting to awaken from its snowy stupor. Yet instead of embracing the · long-awaited spring, many of us find ourselves not knowing what to do with our footlooseness. The following article has been compiled for those people who are dying to get out and peddle, paddle, or picnic - but just don't know where to go. All sites are within a two hour radius of the College; those with asterisks(*) are close enough to be reached by bicycle. There are parks, pubs, disco_s. hiking trails, horseback riding ~ and all not too far from \home\. Schenectady has a lot to offer in the spring, if you're willing to seek it out: PARKS: *Central Park - straight up Eastern Ave., past the new Price Chopper, then take the second right Central Park is really beautiful in the spring; it's got a pond, tennis courts, a nlayground; perfect for picnic!!. It even has a mountain. *Collins Park - right over the Scotia bridge (towards GE). right next door to Jumpin' Jacks (see Restaurants). It consists, mainly of large, flat fields, has tennis courts, a pond, and a small stretch of beach. And they're building a new weekend's worth of things to do,. It has bars, beaches. boating, (anything from paddle boats to scenic tours). It houses Fort William Henry, immortalized in J. F. Cooper's The Last of the Mohicans, natives of this area. The Lake George complex also includes Gaslight Village, a roaring 20's amusement park, and en route (the Northway takes you right there) is \Storytown\, where the fairie's waterfountains have ears. The Adirondacks house their own park near Lake Placid ~where the Winter Olympics will be held in 1980); it's a beautiful scenic park, offers hiking and bike trails, and the two hour ,; amphitheater along the111. 00 waterfront. 5 : Thatcher Park -. head up g ' ~- Broadway until tt becomes :r.: Altamont Ave.; continue SW, 3.: straight down. Thatcher Park is ~, famous for its scenery c:' beautiful cliffs, views, and it even ~ has a swimming pool. It's about a !h hour drive from Union. The Lake George area has a drive is as scenic as the park itself. Saratoga State Park Saratoga itself offers multiple mansions and historic sites for viewing, not to mention the racetract (post time 8:15 nightly) and the Saratoga Performing Arts Center (SPAC), hosting good rock, folk, jazz, etc. concerts threughout the summer months. The Park has tennis, a golf course, wierd old buildings, and the Saratoga Summer Theater, which has films throughout the season. • DANCING: . Aliens- on Route .50, Glenville-Burnt Hills area. The cover charge is $1.50, which supplies good live music and a sunken dance floor, hut drinks are expensive. RESTAURANTS: • For the most complete restaurant Hst, consult the Freshman Rec.;nd. 8ut there are a few summer specials to try: Jumpin' Jaeks -~ just over. the Scotia bridge (towards GE), Jumpin' Jacks is the finest drive- in restaurant in the area. Fresh seafood is shipped in daily, and prices are really reasonable. And it's right next door to Collins Park. Only open in the spring and summer. Maurice's is an exellent deli located at 44 Washington Ave. in the Stockade (~mother historic area well worth the walk down Union Street), Located in the basement of the Y, Maurice's is an incredible cafeteria-style restaurant. open only for lunch and inexpensively priced. The )jog llo._se, on State St., (two blocks past McD.on~ld's), make their own ice cream in the spring, and the toppings. are better than the ice creal}l. They also serve hot dogs, snacks, and, (be live it or nt;>t), sell magic tricks. HORSEBACK RDING: . Go straight down Salltown Rd., over and beyond. the rivet; keep going straight, and there's a ranch on the r\ght: Ve:ry reasonably pric~d. Special thanks- to Roger Summerhayes ·and Paul Boyd for being \local: vokels .. \ Lettering alum Con•in11ed from P~Jge 1 . far removed from her real interest, ··but financially !!nd practicQ.IIy, it mak;es sense.\ · Ms. Taylor is very enthusiastic about her interest. \Letter forms beautifully made give me 'a feeling of elation and a kind of satisfaction. Calligrapliy is nat a skill learned overnight or even in a whole term. It takes a true love of letters as weU as years .of hard work and a lot of practice to become a good calligrapher. Most peqple have no appreciation for the amount of time that goes into a piece of calligraphy or how Jumpin• Jack's- the best of the drive-ins, 1 many times a piece is redone Until it is finally finished to the _satisfaction of the letterer.'\ ·- .,.. 'Soundtrack' • arr1ves Continued from Page .1 . . , .• , . - -... . • z• ... <;; ~.. • to the motion picture experience;· and \The Lasf of the Mohicans.\ both emotional and intellectm~l.,:' - \Music · ( 01 ; the Screen,\ Brown said he will try to wean the with Marvin Hamlisch. Clips audience away fr-om the idea that from several Hamlisch-scored· ... they must rely on critics by giving films will be shown, including those attending \a sense of their \The Sting\ and \The Way We own ability to authoritatively Were,\ some of Which was filmed evaluate films.\ on the Union College campus; Brown's courses at the New Hamlisch will discuss the creative School are enlivened by the process, and particularly his work appearance of surprise guests and with Barbara Stresisand, Robert the showing of unreleased film. Redford and Paul Newman. At Brown promised that the element the piano, he will give a of surprise will also be demonstration of his music~ incorporated into \Soundtrack.\ writing method. \Soundtrack\ will examine the - \The Role of the Actor,\ making of a film from writing to with Giff Robertson. Robertson, release. Each of t.he four artists who starred in \PT 109,\ will explore a different element in \Picnic and· \The Best Man,\ the filmmaking process. In has been awarded television's addition, they will discuss the Emmy Award as. well as an integration of their talents with Academy. Award for his the creative work of other performance in ••charly :• contributors Preceding the interview with As now scheduled, the topics Robertson will be a special considered in \Soundtrack\ will screening prior to the world be as follows: premiere of his new multi-million - \The Writer as Creator,\ dollar thriller, \Shoot co- with Jules Feiffer. One of the starring Ernest Botgnine. country's foremost cartoonist!., Each \Soundtrack'' session will Feiffer has written a number of beg'jn at 7:30'p~m. and go to 10:30 stageplays, includirig \Kno6k p.m. Knock\ and \Little Murders.\ Subscriptions to \Soundtrack\ the session will begin with a are available thr:ough the Office screening of \Carnal Knowledge,\ of Graduate Studies. , .and for which .Feiffer wrote the script Continuing Education for , $2&, and screenplay, and Feiffer~s Tickets to individual \Sound- delightful award-winning cartoon, track\ sessions may be purchased \Munro.\ at $.10 apiece and only if seats are - \The Directing Process,\ available. with Alan Arkin. Arkin is· well- Those wishing to subscribe to known for his performances in \Soundtrack\ may do so by such films as \The Russians Are stopping in !lt the Office pf Coming! The Russians are Graduate St~:~dies and Continuing Coming!\ ''Catch-22,'' ''Popi,\ Education at Wells House or by •'Wait Until Dark,\ and \The writing 'the office at One Union Heart is a Lonely Hunter.'' Ave · \Soundtrack\ Will · focus on ., Union College Grounds, Arkin's work as a director and Schenectady, . N.Y. 12308. For will feature screenings from information, phone 370-6288. ' 1 Little Murders,'' \People Soup,'' if\.o - Chr prepat I:oo r Loun~ Fih .. Soun night!: J. Proctc 1-i uds Coile! Colle~ Opt \Der Cathe Conct $2.00 Tht SartH Skidn 584~51 Fre Fanta Wine 6625. Jev Rubit Libra Si~ Revo Univ Le ct Bicen SUN Wast 457~8 Mi s p. Colle Rll Laba S p.n Ar Wate a war term cum grad recei eigh1 of t poin 5 or the disre and poss absc be c thesi A need light are com exar are of t reas abu For sing our An< A t1 T RA rea! ext1 He abo get o.r I so. on f

Page 12 CONCORDIENSJS, Wednesday, Apri/7, 1976 Springtime: stone's throw from paradise by SUE FINKELSTEIN Schenectady is finally starting to awaken from its snowy stupor. Yet instead of embracing the long-awaited spring, many of us find ourselves not knowing what to do with our footlooseness. The following article has been compiled for those people who are dying to get out and peddle, paddle, or picnic - but just don't know where to go. AH sites are within a two hour radius of the College; those with asterisks(*) are close enough to be reached by bicycle. There are parks, pubs, disco~ hiking trails, horseback riding - a!'ld all not too far from \home\. Schenectady has a lot to offer in the spring, it you're willing to seek it out: PARKS: *Central Park - straight up Eastern Ave .. past the new Price Chopper, then take the second right. Central Park is really beautiful in the spring; it's got a pond. tennis courts, a nlayground: perfect for picnics. It even has a mountain. *Collins Park - nght over the Scotia bridge (towards GE). right next door to Jumpin' Jacks (see Restaurants). It consists, mainly of large, flat fields, has tennis courts, a pond, and a small stretch of beach. And they're building a new weekend's worth of things to do. It has bars. beaches, boating, (anything from paddle boats to scenic tours). It houses Fort Wi(i]iam Henry, immortalized in J. F. Cooper's The Last of the Mohicans, natives of this area. The lake George complex also includes Gaslight Village, a roaring 20's amusement park. and en route (the Northway takes you right there) is \Storytown\, where the fairie's waterfountains have ears. The Adirondacks house their own park near Lake Placid (where the Winter Olympics will be held in 1980); it's a beautiful scenic park, offers hiking and bi,ke trails, and the two hour .;--\ amphitheater along the·J>.\' waterfront. :r so Thatcher Park - head up . ~ Broadway until it becomes Altamont Ave.; continue SW, ;= straight down. Thatcher Park is ~· ell famous for its scenery ~ beautiful cliffs. views, and it even !! has a swimming pool. It's about a \12 hour drive from Union. The Lake George area has a drive is as scenic as the park itself. Saratoga State Park Saratoga itself offers multiple mansions and historic sites for viewing, not to mention the racetract (post time 8:15 nightly) and the Saratoga Performing Arts Center (SPAC). hosting good rock. folk, jazz, etc. concerts throughout the summer months. The Park has tennis, a golf course, wierd old buildings, and the Saratoga Summer Theater, which has films thrm!lghout the season. DANCING: . Allens- on Route 50, Glenville-Burnt HiHs area. The cover charge is $1.50, which supplies good live music and a sunken dance floor, but drinks are expensive. RESTAURANTS: . For the most complete restaurant list, consu It the Freshman Record. But there are a few stlmmer specials to try: Jumpin' Jacks - just over the Scotia bridge (towards GE), Jumpin' Jacks is the finest drive- in restaurarJt in the area. Fresh seafood is shipped in daily, and prices are reaHy reasonable. And it's right next door to CoHins Parle Only open in the spring and summer. Maurice's is an exellent deli located at 44 Washington Ave. in the Stockade (another historic area well worth the walk down Union Street). located in the basement of the Y, Maurice's is an incredih'Je cafeteria-style restaMrant. open on1y for lunch and inexpensively priced. The Dog House. on State St., (two blecks past McDonald's), make their own ice cream in the spring, and the toppimgs are better than the ice cream. They also serve hot dogs, snacks, and, (belive it or not), sell magic tricks. HORSEBACK RDING: Go straight down Halltown Rd., over and beyond the river; keep going straight, and there's a ranch on the right. Very reasonably priced. Special thanks to Roger Sumrnerhayes and Pa1:1l Boyd for '\· being \local vokels.\ Lettering alum Continued from Page 7 far removed from. her real interest, \but financially and practically, it makes sense.\ Jumpin' Jack's - the best of the drive-ins. Ms. Taylor is very enthusiastic about her interest. \Letter forms beautifully made give me a feeling of elation and a kind of satisfaction. Calligraphy is not a skill learned overnight or even in a whole term. It takes a true love of letters as well as years of hard work and a lot of practice to become a good calligrapher. Most people have no appreciation for the amount of time that goes into a piece of calligraphy or how many times a piece is redone until it is finally finished to the satisfaction of the letterer.\ It's time to erder the ·1976 Union Book Schenectady (U.B.) The 1976 Union Book is now taking orders from all undergraduates who wish to purchase the book. The Union Book is Union College's yearbook. It is a publication that captures the people~ places, and thoughts of Union College. The book is over 200 pages long. ·\If a book is not ordered now you ain't going to get one in the fall when the book comes out,~ said one ·of the editors. The entire. 1976 graduating class receives their books free. But due to the fimincial crunc.h the Union Book can only .print for undergrad1:1ates books that have been ordered. The cost is five dollars. Place your order · n~w for the books in Student Activities any time this spring. 'Soundtrack' • arrives Continued from Page 1 to the motion picture experience~ both emotional and intellectual.\ Brown said he will try to wean the audience away from the idea that they must rely on critics by giving those attending \a sense of their own ability to authoritatively evaluate films ... Brown's courses at the New School are enlivened by the appearance of surprise guests and the showing of unreleased film. Brown promised that the element of surprise will also be incorporated into \Soundtrack.\ \Soundtrack\ will examine the making of a film from writing to release. Each of the four artists will explore a different element in the filmmaking process. In addition, they will discuss the integration of their talents with the creative work of other contributors As now scheduled, the topics considered in \Soundtrack\ will be as follows: \The Writer as Creator,\ with Jules Feiffer. One of the country's foremost cartoonist;, Feiffer has written a number of stageplays, including \Knock Knock\ and \Little Murders.\ The session will begin with a screening of \Carnal Knowledge,\ for which FeifTcr wrote the script and screenplay, and Feiffer's delightful award-winning cartoon, \Munro.\ \The Directing Process,\ with Alan Arkin. Arkin is well- known for his performances in such films as \I he Russians Are Coming! The Russians are Coming!\. \Catch-22 \Popi \Wait Until Dark.\ and \The Heart is a Lonely Hunter.\ \Soundtrack\ will focus on Arkin's work as a director and will feature screenings from ''Little Murders.\ \People Soup,\ and \The last of the Mohicans.\ - \Mu<:ic for the Screen,\ with Marvin Hamlisch. Clips from several Hamlisch-scored films will be shown, including \The Sting\ and \The Way We Were,\ some of which was filmed on the Union College campus. Hamlisch will discuss the creative process, and particularly his work with Barbara Stresisand, Robert Redford and Paul Newman. At the piano, he will give a demonstration of his music- writing method. - \The Role of the Actor,\ with Cliff Robertson. Robertson, who starred in \PT 109,\ ''Picnic,\ and \I he Best Man,\ has been awarded television's Em my A ward as well as an Academy Award for his performance in \Charly.\ Preceding the interview with Robertson will be a special screening prior to the world premiere of his new multi-million dollar thriller, \Shoot co- starring Ernest Borgnine. Each \Soundtrack\ session will begin at 7:30 p.m. and go to 10:30 p.m. Subscriptions to \Soundtrack\ are available through the Office of Graduate Studies and Continuing Education for $2S. Tickets to individual \Sound- track\ sessions may be purchased at $10 apiece and only if seats are available. Ihose wishing to subscribe to \Soundtrack\ may do so by stopping in at the Office of Graduate Studies and Continuing Education at Wells House or by writing the office at One Union Ave Union College Grounds, Schenectady. N.Y. 12308. For information, phone 370-62SK .. r: Chr prepm 1 :oo r Loun! Fil1 \Soun . ~ night! ' J. \ Proct• Huds Colle! Colle! Opt \Dcr Cat he Co net $2.00 Th• Sartn S~idr1 5X-l-5' Fr€ Lmt;; Wine 6625. Jev Rubi1 l.1bra Si~ HC\'0 t:niv Le cl Bicen SU:\J Wmt 457-H Mi ~ p, Colk ) i l ~ j Ra ~ l.aba ~ p.r ~ Ar Wate ~ ~ ~ a war ~ term ·~ cum grad )j recei eighl lj of t ·~ pnin 5 or .l 1. the ~ disrc ~· and ~ pos~ ~ absc he c \ thes1 A 1\ need ..( light are ., com ': exar are '1i of t ; -'~~ \ r .f ··~ reas abu 1i For '1' sing ~! our 1: Anc '(, A It T -~ RA rea! extr '( He -· abo ., p t get or I ., so i

.. C,ONCORJ)I!ENSIS,. Wednesday, Apri/7.., 1~76-,. Page 13 , ' . Th.urs~, April 8 Christian Prayer '&ervice in preparation for Easter. 12:30 to I :00 p.rn. Carnegie Hall, Strauss Lounge. · ·- Film ComiJ)ittee Presents \Sound. of Music,\ 7:~0 p.m. nightly in SS 016. J. Geil's Band, 8:00 p.m., Proctors Theatre, Troy. Tickets: Hudson Valley Community College, Proctors, and Siena College. $6.50 general aamission. Opera Workshop of SUNYA, \Der Frieschultz.,\ 8 p.m. Cathedral of the lmmaculate Conception, South Mall, Albany, $2.00 and $2.50. 457-H606. · The Trojan Women, (J.P. Sartrc.), 8:00 p.m., Wilson Chapel, Skidmore CqHege, Saratoga. 1- 584-5000. Free Theatre Production, \The Fantastiks,\ 8:30 p.m_., Mother':; Wine Emporium, RPI, Troy. 270- 6625. Jewish Philosophy, Rabbi Rubin,. 7 p.m., Skidmo.re College Library, Saratoga, 1-584-5000. Significanc.e · of American Revolution to Black Americans, University Affairs Alumni Lecture, Frank Pogue, Bicentennial Lecture, 8 p.m., SUNYA. Recital Hall, 1400 Washingtcm Ave., Albany, Free, 457-8606. Miriam Solan, poetry reading, 8 p.m.. The Lod.ge, Skidmore College, Saratoga, 1-584-5000. FrL, April 9 Rathskellar Special, Two Labatts for the price of one from 8 p.m. to I a.m. .. Area Composers' Sh9wcase, E. Waters, E. Blood, I Chadabe, D. and E. Curtis, 8 p.in., Union College Memor:ial Chapel~ $2.00 .and $4:oo. 436-0498. · · p.m., Wilson Chap!,!l, Skidrno're College, Sara~oga, 1-584-5000. RPI Orchestra and Chorus Spring: Concert, 8 p.m., Chapel and Cultural Center, 2125 Burdett Ave., Troy, Free. 274-7793. The Miracle Worker, .(Gibson), Adirondack Players, 8 p.m., Adirondack Playhouse, 13 Elizabeth Street, Amsterdam. 1- 843-2992. ·Play-boy of the Westem Wor.ld, 8 p.m., Main Theatre, SUNY A, Performing Arts Center, 1400 Washington Ave., Albany. 457~ 8606. The Trojan Women, (Sartre), 8 p.m., Wilson Chapel, Skidmore College, Saratoga. l-584-5000. Free Theatre 'Pr(Jduction, \The Fantastiks,\ 8:30 p.m., Mother's Wine Empor.ium, RPI, Troy. 270- 6225. How A Writer Works, W. Brown, C. Rowles, R. Shaver, local authors, 7:30 p.m., Schenectady County Public Library, Liberty and Clinton Sts., Schenectady. The Pai\tings of Monet, Dr. Herben, 4:30, Social Sciences 016, Union College, Free. 370- 6171. Film Committee Presents: ''The Godfather (Part 1),'-' 10 p.m., SS 01·6. Sat., April 10 Varsity Baseball vs. Utica College, 1:00 p.m., Away Varsity Lacrosse vs. Hartwick College, 2:00 p.m., Garis Field. Varsity Tennis vs. R PI, 2:00 p.m., Home courts. Film Committee Presents: \The Godfather (Part I),\ 7, 9, II p.rri., SSOI6. Faculty Square Dance, Supper preceding at 6: 15 p.m. at Mclane's home, Sanders Ave., Scotia. 8:30 p.m., Old Chapel. . · · Tile Trojan W~rnen, (Sarire): 8 Fr¢e Tlleatre Production, \The Fantastiks,\ 8:30 p.m., Mother's Wine Emporium, RPI, Troy. 270- 6625. Sun., • ': ·-.r April 11 Film Committee Presents: \The Godfather (Part I),\ 7, 9, II p.m. in SSOI6. Trial By Jury, Siena Schola Cantorum's \Little Afternoon Music\ series, 4:00 p.m., Siena Co II e.g e C a m p u s C e n te r, LoudonviHe. $2.00. 783~2431. .. . Mon., April 12 I Musici, di Roma, chamber orchestra, Vivaldi, 8:30 p.m., Union College Memorial Chapel, $3.00 and $5.00. 346-8684. Tues April .13 The first meeting of the Student-Faculty Bridge Club for the soring term will be held on Tuesday, April IJ, at 7:45 p.m. in the Hale House Upper Lounge. All bridge players are urged to join in the evening's game. A Man for Ail Sea~ons, Alpha Omega Players, 8 p.m., RPI, McNeil Room, Troy. 50¢-75¢. 270-6625. Thirty Years of Fun, I 890's- Keystone Cops, 8 p.m., Harmanus Bleecker Library, 19 Dove St., Albany. Free, 785-0447. Wed. Katherine Porter, writer, \Life and Literature,\ 7:45 p.m., South Dining Hall, New Skidmore Campus, Saratoga. 1-584-5000 ext 635. These·s anyone? Dig your toes into the long-awaited spring! Continued from Page 8 awarded after the first -of two terms' work, nor is the first term's cum recalculated after the final grade is submitted, one ·could receive. anywhere from zero to eight points for the thesis instead of the current 0, 2,' 4, 6 or 8 points. Given that awarding I, 3, 5 or 7 points would not violate the college;s policy of disregarding pluses or minuses, and in the interest of fairness, the possibility of grading on the absolute eight point scale should be considered in the case of the thesis. . A final area of the thesis which needs· attention is the orals. In light of the fact that these orals are a vestige .of the now defunct comprehensives, and the fact examiners from out!iide of Union are no longer brought in, the role of the orals is dubious. It may be that the orals should be administered prior to the completion of the thesis for the purpose- of feedback from and interaction with more than one professor. I think that presenting the thesis orally to more than two professors (as is done in the Sciences), after which the student answers questions, would probably be the most worthwhile ~xperience for the student as well as other individuals attending the presentation. Anyway, it is all fond memories for me, but for the sake of others who will soon engage in writing a thesis, now is the time to question what is both desired and required in order to make those twenty weeks (and then some) less of the 1ell than 1 promise you that they will be. RA's explored reason to put up with all the abuse, even besides the prestige. For one, RA's have singles, and a single is a happy commodity on our romance-flooded campus. And RA's have a room discount. A tempting pair of fringe benefits. The petson who approaches an RAship for these pragmatic reasons must be able to escape the extraneous grief described above. He or she·· must be able to move abo';lt in the room silently ~ to' get m and out without being seen or heard, and to read in the dark so no one can see that the light is on from outsiqe. Faced with all these difficulties, one wonders why any sane person would desire the post of RA. But this is why Union College is so marvelous: at Union one can rise to one's own level of abuse, be it OChem, Vertebrate, two-term theses, employment at the Skeller, and (the pinnacle of abuse) newspaper editorship. The position of RA is just one of the many abuse opportunities. So remember: RA's need abuse. Boobytrap an RA's bed today - it gives them a purpose in life. And if you cannot dissuade your friends from applying for the job, wish them luck. Committees for all Continued from Page 3 Committee on Faculty Students on this committee meet to consicer policies and plans with respect to faculty and faculty development. committee may meet Development Committee This committee meets to consttlt with the Director of Development to consider ways, in whih that olfice can be helpful to the total campus effort. Educational Policy Committee The major responsibility of this committee is the formuation .of policies and plans with respect to plans anx policies with respect to matters of educational poliy and curriculum. Support Services Committee This committee oversees the operations of AOC and . Uoward Bound programs. Securtiy Committee A committee involved in development of security procedures at Union. Standing of Studt.mts This body reviews the positions of students and the schools academic standing. Admissions Committee This committee advises on the criteria observed in accepting students and passes upon applications for admissions. Career Planning This committee is responsible for the developmet of an integrated and complete set of programs with respect to career counseling aqd student and alumni placement. Bookstore Committee This committee is resposible for· working out plans and policies which relate to the campus store. Committee on Student Life This committee is responsible for programs and plans for the quality of student life and behavior on campus. College Center This committee will work with Craig Carlson in trying to make the College Center a more active unit on campus. Athletic Committee The primary obligation of this committee shold be planning for an inegrated set of athletic programs which ' include intercollegiate athletics, intamural athletics, recreational programs. Audit- Tax Committee This committee is responsible for allocating the student tax treasury to all student activities: Larry Fein is Chairman next year and the Secretary of Student Forum, and elected officials also sit on it. . Athletic Committee The primary obligation of this committee should be planning. Election Committee These students are responsible for overseeing all student elections. Film Committee This committee selects the Tuesday and weekend films each term, publicizes, and collects money at each showing. Financial Aid This committee is resposible for the formulation of policies and plans with respect to financial aid. Social Committee The Biggie!!!!!! Concerts, dances, parties et cetra. If you think social life here at Union College is lacking and are willing to pt in the hours of work planning, setting up and publicizing then do apply. Public Relations Committee This committee is responsible for plans and policy with respect to carrying Union's message beuond the campus. Planning 11nd Priorities Committee Advises on budgetary and planning matters. All spots open. Presidential Advisory Board Serves as advisory committee to President on all matters. All spots open. \ Housing Committee The Housing Committee is responsible ·for formulating policies and plans with respect to student residencies. Speakers Board A new committee and will be · advised by one member of Speaker's Forum. Campus Committee This committee considers the physical condition of the campus and makes recommendations to the Plannig and Priorities Committee Conduct-Ombudsman . This. co~mittee, newly formed JUSt this wmter acts as a grievance board for students against any student, faculty, administrator or institution in this school. '

j r: r .f \!/ '.1/ ; . 'V .,.; ,, .. \ CONCORDIENS/S, Wednesday, April 7, 1976 Page 13 rrh.urs., April 8 Christian Prayer Service in preparation for Easter. 12:30 to I :00 p.m. Carnegie Hall, Strauss Lounge. Film Committee Presents \Sound of Music,\ 7:30 p.m. nightly in SS 016. J. Ceil's Band, 8:00 p.m., Proctors Theatre, Troy. lickcts: Hudson Valley Community College. Proctors. and Siena College. $fl.5U general admission. Opera Workshop of StNY A, \Der Frieschultt.\ ~ p.m. Cathedral ol the Immaculate Conception. South Mall. Albany. $2.00 and $2.50. 45 7-~60fl. The Trojan Women, (J.P. Sartrc), X:OO p.m., Wilson ChapeL S~idmorc College. Saratoga. l- 5X4-5000. Free Theatre Production, \I he Lmtasuks.\ X:30 p.m .. Mother\ v .. ine hnponum. RPI. lro\. 270- 6025. . Jewish Philosophy, Rabbi Rubin. 7 p.m .. Skidmore Cnllege l.1brary, Saratoga. I-SX4-5000. Significance of American Hnolution to Black Americans, University Affairs Alumni Lecture, !-rank Pogue. Bicentennial Lecture, X p.m .. SU:\JYA Recital Hall, 1400 Wmhington Ave., Albany, 1-ree. 457-X606. Miriam Solan, poetry reading. ~ p.m., I he Lodge. Skidmore Cnllege. Saratoga. I-5H4-5000. Fri., April 9 Rathskellar Special, lv.o l.abatts tor the pnce ot one !rom H p.m. to I a.m. Area Composers' Showcase, E. Waters. E. Blood, I Chadabe, D. and E. Curtis, S p.m., Union Colleg~ Memorial Chapel. $2.00 and $4.00. 436-049H. RPI Orchestra and Chorus Spring Concert, S p.m., Chapel and Cultural Center. 2125 Burdett Ave .. Troy. Free. 274-7793. The Miracle Worker, (Gibson), Adirondack Players. H p.m .. Adirondack Playhouse, 13 Elizabeth Street. Amsterdam. I- H43-2992. Playboy of the Western World, H p.m .. Main Theatre, SUNY A. Performing Arts Center. 1400 Wa~hington Ave., Albany. 457- H606. Tbe Trojan Women, (Sartrc), K p.m .. Wilson Chapel, Skidmore College. Saratoga. l-SX4-5000. Free Theatre l)roduction, \The 1-antastiks.\ X:JO p.m., Mother\ Wine Lmponum. RPI, I roy. 270- (1225. How A Writer Works, W. Hrown. C. Rowle-., R. Shan:r. !neal authors, 7:JO p.m., Schenectad) County Public Library. l.1hert; and Clinton Sh., Schenectady. The Paintings of Monet, Dr. Herbert. 4:30, Social Sciences 016, Union College, Free. 370- 6171. Film Committee Presents: \The Godfather (Part 1),\ 10 p.m., SS 016. Varsity Baseball vs. Utica College. l:OU p.m., Av..ay Varsity Lacrosse \s. Hartv.ick College. 2:00 p.m .. Garis 1-ield. Varsity Tennis vs. R PI, 2:00 p.m., Home courts. Film Committee Presents: \ I he Ciodlatht:r (Part I),\ 7, 9. 11 p.m .. sso I fl. Faculty Square Dance, Supper preceding at 6: 15 p.m. at McLane's home. Sanders A vc .. Scotia. H:.~O p.m., Old Chapel. The Trojan Women, (Sartre), H p.m., Wilson Chapel, Skidmore College, Saratoga, I-5H4-5000. Free Theatre Production, --·r he Fantastiks,\ K:30 p.m., Mother's Wine Emporium. RPI, I roy. 270- fl625. Sun.~ April') i Film Committee Presents: \l he Godfather (Part 1).\ 7, 9, II p.m. in SSOI6. Trial By Jury, Siena Schola Canturum's \'Little Alternoon Music\ series. 4:00 p.m., Siena College Campus Center, Loudnrn ille. $2.00. 7HJ-243!. . Mon., April J 2 Musici, di Roma, chamber orchestra, Vinddi. X:JO p.m., Union College Memorial Chapel. SJ.OO and $5.00. J46-HflX4. Tues April 1 3 l he first meeting ol the Student-Faculty Bridge Club lor the snnnl.! term v.tll be held on I ue~day. April 13, at 7:45 p.m. 111 the Hale House L 1 pper Lounge. All bridge players are urged to jom 111 the evening\ game. A :vtan for All Sea~ons, Alpha Omega Players. H p.m.. R PI, Me :\eil Room. I roy. 50CI:-75~t. 27D-61i 25. Thirty Years of Fun, IX90's- Keystone Cop\, X p.m., llarrnanus Rleecker Librarv. Ill Dove St.. Albany. hee. 7K5--0447. Wed. Katherine Porter, writer, \l.1lc and Literature.\ 7:45 p.m., South D1n1ng Hall. \;ev. Sk1dmme Campus. Saratoga. J-5K4-5000 ext f135. Theses anyone? Dig your toes into the long-awaited spring.' Continued from Page 8 awarded after the first -of two terms' work, nor is the first term's cum recalculated after the final grade is submitted, one could receive anywhere from 1ero to eight points for the thesis imtead of the current 0, 2, 4, 6 or X pnints. Given that awarding I. .<, 5 or 7 points would not violate the college's policy of disregarding pluses or minuses. and in the interest of fairness, the possibility of grading on the absolute eight point scale should he considered in the case of the thesis. A final area of the thesis which needs attention is the orals. In light of the fact that these orals are a vestige of the now defunct comprehensives, and the fact examiners from outside of Union are no longer brought in, the role of the orals is dubious. It may be that the orals should be administered prior to the completion ol the thesis for the purpose of feedback from and interaction with more than one professor. I think that presenting the thesis orally to more than two professors (as is done in the Sciences). after which the student ~mswers questions. would probably be the most worthwhile ~xperience for the student as well 1s other individuals attending the ;>resentation. Anyway, it is all fond memories for me, but for the sake of others who will soon engage in writing a thesis, now is the time to question what is both desired and required tn order to make those twenty weeks (and then some) less of the 1ell than I promise you that they will be. RA~s explored reason to put up with all the abuse, even besides the prestige. For one, RA's have singles, and a single is a happy commodity on our romance-flooded campus. And RA's have a room discount. A tempting pair of fringe benefits. The person who approaches an RAship for these pragmatic reasons must be able to escape the extraneous grief described above. He or she must be able to move about in the room silently · to get in and out without being seen or heard, and to read in the dark so no one can see that the light is on from outside. Faced with all these dilficulties, one wonders why any sane person would desire the post of RA. But this is why Union College is so marvelous: at Union one can rise to one's own level of abuse, be it OChem, Vertebrate, two-term theses, employment at the Skeller, and (the pinnacle of abuse) newspaper editorship. The position of RA is just one of the many abuse opportunities. So remember: RA's need abuse. Boobytrap an RA's bed today - it gives them a purpose in life. And if you cannot dissuade your friends from applying for the job . wish them luck. Committees for all Continued from Page 3 Committee on Faculty Students on this committee meet tn consicer policies and plan~ v. ith respect to !acuity and tacult~ de\elopment. committee ma; meet Development Committee I hi::. committee meets to consult with the Director ol Development to consider v.ays, in whih that olfice can be helptul to the total campus effort. Educational Policy Committee The major responsibility of this committee is the formuation of policies and plans with respect to plans anx policies with respect to matters of educational poliy and curriculum. Support Services Committee This committee oversees the operations of AOC and U oward Bound programs. Securtiy Committee A committee involved tn development of security procedures at Union. Standing of Students This body reviews the positions of students and the schools academic standing . Admissions Committee This committee advises on the criteria observed in accepting students and passes upon applications for admissions. Career Planning !'his committee is responsible tor the developmet of an integrated and complete set of programs with respect to career counseling and student and alumni placement. Bookstore Committee !'his committee 1s resposible tor working out plans and policies wh1ch relate to the campus store. Committee on Student Life I h1s committee is responsible lor programs and plans for the lJUality of student life and behavior on campus. College Center I his committee will work with Craig Carlson in trying to make the College Center a more active unit on campus. Athletic Committee The primary obligation of this committee shold be planning for an inegrated set ol athletic programs which ' include intercollegiate athletics, intamural athletics. recreational programs. Audit- Tax Committee This committee is responsible for allocating the student tax treasury to all student activities: Larry Fein is Chairman next year and the Secretary of Student Forum, and elected officials also sit on it. Athletic Committee The primary obligation of this committee should be planning. Election Committee l'hese students are responsible tor overseeing all student elections. Film Committee !his committee selects the Tuesday and weekend films each term, publicizes, and collects money at each showing. Financial Aid !his committee is resposible for the formulation of pol1cjes and plans with respect to financial aid. Social Committee !he Bigg1e!! 1 !!! Concerts, dances, parties et cetra. lf vou thmk social life here at U~ion College is lacking and arc willing to pt in the hours of work planning, setting up and publici1ing then do apply. Public Relations Committee Ihis committee is responsible lor plans and policy v. ith respect to carrying Union's message beuond the campus. Planning and Priorities Committee Advises on budgetary and planning matters. All spots open. Presidential Advisory Board Serves as advisory committee to President on all matters. All spots open. Housing Committee The Housing Committee is responsible for formulating policies and plans with respect to student residencies. Speakers Board A new committee and will be advised by one member of Speaker's Forum. Campus Committee This committee considers the physical condition of the campus and makes recommendations to the Plannig and Priorities Committee Conduct-Ombudsman . !his committee, newly formed JUSt this winter acts as a grievance board for students against any student. !acuity, administrator. or institution in this school.

, CONCORDIE_NSJS, Jfednesday, April 7. 1976 - ·- ~ . ·-·- - Classlfteds • ' > • 0 e • • ' • ' 0 .~ ' • • • • ' ' ' ' ' I ~ • AppUeatlons lll'le avaUable in Admissions Office for Gatesmen. The Gatesmen is the honorary group of students serving the Admissions Office by giving campus tours to viting applicants and parents. Senior Gatesmen also assist the Ad. Office by interviewing applications. Applications should be returned by Friday. April 16. Interviews Will be held later in Spring. If you have any questions please contact Lisa Tietz at 372-0804 or Box 1757. Freshman Record Meetlnl on Thursday, April 8. 1976 at 4:30 p.m. 1st floor South Lounge. If unable to attend, contact Mike Marks at 346-9396. H you ue Interested In applying for a position in a manager trainee program at MacDonalds Restaurant, you may .sign up for an interview in the Placement Office. They will be interviewing on Wednesday, April 14, 1976. Anyone lilterested In worklnl on next year's Freshman Orientation in any capacity - advising writing and typing, working on the Freshman Record,. or whatever - sign up this week in Student Activities with Mrs. Marra. We need lots of people who are willing to work hard, so sign up now. All eluk llild orpnbatlons c!esiring a room in the College Center for the seMol year 1976-77 must fill out an application. These applications and a copy of the guidelines will be available in Mrs. Marra's office. All applications are due in no later than April 16th. Ally faculty or stall' membel' Interested In woddn& at any Cabaret (Thurs, nights), please contact Mrs. Marra at the Student Activities Office (61.18}. The Classifieds Page of the New CONCORDIENSIS is primarily a student service; as such, :all,· material submitted will be published FREE of charge. To insure ·that the items submitted are printed, all copy MUST be in by Monday 3t 8:00 PM. Items to be repeated must have the number of runs specified. l'he Union College CONCORDlENSIS assumes no responsibility for typographical errors, but will print a correction. If you want a ride, or you have something to sell' or you simply want to see something of your own printed up in a major world publication, PLEASE, don't hesitate! This is a FREE service, so take advantage of it. If you wish to submit material which conforms to the format of the Classifieds Page, simply slip it under the Concordy Otfice door (3rd floor Carnegie) or given to Hope Fabian at Richmond 1'05. . Pleue contact Norm Walbeck if you are interested in participating in or helping run the INS simulation this term. It will be run on May 14, IS, 16, F·E til• Maps and Map Making; I, Maps and Man, Thrower; 2,. Principles of Cartography, Raisz; Good condition,. $6 together; call Andy 370-6753. LOST&FOUND Loilt: one woman's bracelet, tiny solid gold hearts joined together. Please retum as it holds great sentimental value; no questions ... reward. Cal!372-168l. Lost:. two silver rings, one is a spoon ring and the other is .plain. Please call Cheryl at 6474. Lost: one silver linked bracelet in vicinity of Sha Na Na conc\:rt Thursday night. Great personal value. If found, please contact Wanda, 420 Richmond, at 346- 9545. Lost: A long l,llue dress having great sentimental value. If found, please .retutp to Shari at 346·9545. The Conservation Society of Southern Vermont· is looking for people with backgrounds or well-developed interests in the natural sciences for summer employment in a Summer ConserVation School for Children. Anyone wishing to apply for a position should have had some pr.ior camping experience. For more inforrnati<;m, come to the Placement Office. Adlephla Univenlty will be l'eerultlnt: on April 14 for their lawyer's assistant program. If interested, please come to the Placement 0ffice to sign ilp. 8th Annual Sl1m• Chi Spring d1mbake, May 8th from 3-6. Free admission to Band Party with purchase of clam bake ticket or $1.00 at door. Band/Concert featuring \Exitus and the Pied Pipers,\ good Disco band. 9-l A.M. Tickets: month of April, $3.50; month of May, $4.00; at door, $4.50. Transportation provided to and from Girling Center. ii.ost: one gold .hoop earring outside Psychology building, If found, please call FE '1.7 Books:. I, Dorson, America in Lori at 370-6733. Legand; 2. Thompson, N.Y.S. folktales, legends and ballads: caU Dave at 370-6.543. Political Sdence 1'1. with Walbeck: I, International Relations on the Planet Earth; 2, Peace and the War Industry; contact Sheri; 31JFox 370-6509. Compater Llnaulstlts . Incorporated of Albany are looking for applicants for summer employment. For more information come to the Placement Office. A new musk workshop will make its debut on ,the Union College campus beginning this Sunday, April I I. It will be a workshop devoted to folk music in all of its styles - traditional, ballads, blues, ragtime and contemporary. It will also feature demonstrations and instruction on the ·guitar, the banjo, the mandolin, the piano, the ·bass and the harmonica. In residence will be Jim Shorser, Stephen Grayman, Ruth Rappaport; and Leslie Goldstein sharing their tunes and listening to yours. So all of you who may be asiring musicians on any level or maybe just want to swap a song or two, bring your instruments and join us in Old Chapel this Sunday and every Sunday from 3~5 in the afternoon. Roommate NHded to share beautiful· apt. l~ blocks from campus .on Van Vranken Ave .. Stores, laundromat, etc. within one block. Reasonable rent. Call 393-8743. Wanted for 1916.77 achool ,,., - A two bedroom apartment close to campus. If you are living in one now or know of one in the area. please C1lll Ci!ldy or Marjie at 370-6638. FE '1.7 Books: I, Thompson $2;()0; 2, Dorson, $3.00; Contact John Testa; Rm. 323 Davidson. Psycholou 24: Social Psychology .books; cali Lenny 6720. Boots Wltb no hlihllzbtlnR: 1., Math 18, $3.50; 2, Math 12, 14; $9.50;; 3, C.S. 14E, $7.00; 4, Stat to, .$1LOO; 5, Eco 10 (Mansfield), $3.00; Ric:.403 West 346•9491. Teac Canette Deck I!Dd 32. C-90's for sale. See Tim at 363 K.A. For 1111le: 1974 Ri:d Opel Manta in excellent condition with AM/FM radio, low mileage and rear window defogger. $3,100.00. Call 372-1681. Kawudl - JOOcc for sale. only 450 miles, like brand new. Call Huseyin 372-1810, must sell. For ule: 1971 VW Bug - excellent body and running condiiion. New muffler, valves, tires. Call 274-3672 eves. and Rldt Needed to Geneva, N.Y. or vicinity on Friday, April 16. Please call Cheryl at 6474. Riders wanted to Buffalo (Wmsvl.) on Friday, April 9th at noon. Contact Jill at 6498, Ride wanted· to Beantown (Boston) this 'Friday or Saturday, April 9th or lOth. Contact Jane Levine at 370-6S22. Ride needed for two to Boston on .Friday, April9. Call Jody at 310-6$81. Ride wanted to Ithaca, Syracu~e or Binghamton on Friday, April 9th , after II :30. a.m. Call Brian at 370-6689 or stop by 322 Davidson. Ride wanted to Rochester - will share el(penses, Friday, April 9. Call Hoily 393- 9740. Ride needed to New Havcm, Ct. on Friday. Call Sue a:t 37().6480. TDDAY'S URDSSIOID PUZZLI Books In contemporary pldlosophy, JIIJcholoiY ~ aenerai'En&Ush f'or sale at 10-15¢. Call370-2304. Funllamentals of Fl~~anelal Aceountln& by Welsh and Anthony. Contact Sandy at 372- 0172(Fiji) weekends. ·. Stereo .Cauette Dec•s for ule: Teac-160, high quality recording~; Dolby system, fuli features, $150,00, retails $279 new, only 9 months old (2 yr. warranty). Panasonic Cassette Deck, good recording on most systems at a lower price. One year old, retails $149 new, selling for $50.00, will dicker, Call Eh•en or Kevin at 346,..9582. , An. Ad lioc Committee has been convened to investigate the tenurability ()f Prof. Edwin .. A.S. Lewis of the Physics Dept. Any member of the • college community who would like to . ~oB:ttri.bute to the deliberations . of the committee is .Jnvited tp do so. Please contact Prof. T .R. Hoffman, · Steinmetz Hall 201 (370·6273). ACROSS American president 5 Extended poem 9 Actor···-· Navarro 14 Steel girder 15 General busyness 16 Mr.Zola 17 Lindbergh's nickname:2 words 19 Wardsoff 20 Gardener's tool 21 Shabbiness 23 Repose thoroughly.: 2words 25 European wheat 26 Gem 28 Coward's \-····-Spirit\ 32 Modifica· tions: Var. 37 Modern wrap 38 Bathroom fixture 39 A Day 41 Awayfrom the center 42 Fully developed 45 Treat roughly 48 Firecracker 50 Notone 51 Nickels 54 lordand earl, e.g. 58 Pajamas, etc.: 2 worc;is 62 Rain vigor- ously 63 Expect 64 Kind of bor- der: 2words 66 1776 writer 67 European marshal 68 Silkworm 69 Flower 70 Utter abrupt· ly 71 Clairvoyant DOWN 1 Roofing applier 2 Residence 3 Snakes' weapons 4 High rigger's milieu 5 Time period 6 Smalldogs 7 Ely and Man 8 Bird sound 9 Replenishes 10 Mentatde- ficiency 11 Pronoun 12 Auto pioneer 13 Headland 18 Become vio.· lently active 22 Form of bar· Last week's f•uJe s•ive1: rowing: Abbr. 24 Word on a receipt 27 Seem imminent 29 Walked over 30 Tug 31 GraftAd:Her. 32 Nipa palm 33 Overdressed man 34 Border on 35 Depression initials 36 ·••• Fein: Irish society 40 ···• put: Field · evl;lnt 43 St. lawrence R. rapids 44 Standard· bred horse 46 Herbaceous · plant 47 Prickly plants 49 Cutting re- mark 52 Insect colon- ies 53 Fabric 55 French river 56 ···-- Banks: Baseball great 57 Defeat utter- ly: Slang · 58 California city 59 \When···· · yourage\ 60 Trot 61 Maori war- club wood 65 Over the··· Hhtoiy 139 or CEP 137: Western lmperlalllm ..... I, Belgian Congo $l.QO; 2, British India $}.00; 3, European Society in Upheaval $~:00; 4, History of South Africa $2.50; 5, In Search of S. E. Asia $6.00; 6, Nat. & Rev. in Indonesia $2.50. All books $15.00. See John or Jerry, N207 (opposite M.E. Lab in Steinmetz). If not there, leave name, room, phone. Math - College Calculus with Analytic Geometry, Protter and Morrey; Elementary Linear Algebra, Kolman; Intro to Ordinary Differential Equations, Ross; Accounting, Managerial Accounting, Moore and Jaedicke; Spanish, Spanish Conversational Review Grammer, Hesse and Orjuela; Excellent condition; call 370- 6425. FE 22: Soclolou (half price - in good condition with some highlighting); I, Tally's Corner, Elliot Liebow $1.40; 2, Deviants, J.L. Simmons $1.50; Contact . Terry at Webster House (107) 370-6445. 3FE 10: Bill of Rights (4 required paperbacks), I, Talks on American Law; 2, The Liberties of an American; 3, Freedom and the Court; 4, Basic Criminal Proceedings; Worth over $18, will sell for $15, books li~e new; Terry 370-6527. lntro to Phyalolozie~~l Psychology. Beatty; contact Sheri, 313 Fox; 370-6509. Psy 10: lntro to PsychoiOJy; I, Psychology in Progress, $4. save $2.25; 2, Learning, $2.50, save $ 1.50; 3, A Primer of Freudian Psychology, 50¢, save 75c; 4. How to Study, $2, save $2; call 374-3600. The College Center Committee. announces a new policy regarding the assignment of rooms in the College Center. Any club or organization (including those who presently have a room in Carnegie, existing clubs who desire a mom for neX:t year, and· forming groups) should pick up a copy of the guidelines and an application in Mrs. Marra's office. ·These wiil be available beginning Thursday, April 8 and are due no later than Aprii 16th. lt is emphasized that all organizations presently situated in Carnegie must .reapply for a room next year. If there are any questions or any need fo,r more information, please contact: aob Herman at 346-9422- or Cathy Shriver at 370-6665. Tired of watehln& all your f•vorlte T.V. shootouts, cartoons, soap operas and stock car races in dull and unexciting .black lind white? Why not get thoroughly addicted? We are looking to sell our 8 month old 19 inch G.E. color portable to any IQcky person who makes the light bid. If you are interested, please call 346-6653, so that you can make arrangements to see the product in action. Oh yes, please don't call during any great T.V. spectacular, like Star Trek or the·Six O'Clock Sports Report with Rip Rowan as we ate in deep meditative bliss at these times. ule or borrow - Physics for the Life Sciences by Cromer. Call Ken 377-9331. Sale or borrow - Tradition, volumes I and 11 by Gado. Call Hope at 370-6148. Gauan - A handbook of Contemporary Photography- call 372-1979. Theorl~ of Pemo~~alltles books - Call 393- 2203. New Frye boots for sale: Men's size 8'1!D. Brown, .excellent condition, Reason for selling: too small. Cost $55 new, would like $40 but will consider other offers. Call John at 346-6548. For sale: 1966 Pontiac LeMans, garage kept, excellent running condition. $400 or best offer. Call Joe 370-6411. Many thanks to everyone who helped and participated in my adolescent psychology experiments last term. It was all .greatly apprec: .. ted. Copies of the booklet will soon be available at Student ActiVities. Thanks !)gain. - Ira. Dedicated to #1'1.: It's a bird, Its, a plane. It's a fire truck. No, it's Grant Judd with the hockey puck! Dedicated to #10: Skating speedily down the ice, With music playihg on the victrola, You trip a man and get a penalty, We love you anyway, Skeeter Gazzola. Lance is yeast. Want to live off campus! Why? Why Not? Interested, call393-9535. Ride needed to New Jersey (Westfield area) on Friday, April 9th. Please contact Jill at 3J7.4904. Ride needed to Boston on April 14th, 15th or 16th. Please contact Jill at 377-4904. ,Our jet lares to BuroD.eare lesslhaa . anrother sclieduled airline's. But our •• StrVICI ISDt •.. If you are under 22, our youth fare is made for you. $360 round-trip in APril & May-$410 in June, July and Augul5t. Great food and service, direct flights from New York and Chicago with connections from other · cities to Luxemboutg in the heart of Europe. Fares subject to change. See your travel agent,· .campus rep, or write: Icelandic Airlines, 630 Fifth Ave., N.Y., N.Y.10020. _))_~ ICElANDIC CN

• - gold as it ;tions 1 ring ryl at cinity light. •lease 346- great ·etum utside e cail - ricinity eryl' at ·I.) on Jill at 1) this lOth. :;-riday, se or , ·after or stop share .y 393- _:;-riday. has ~ate win sics the- IUid the ttee · !ase 1an, 73). B r ' ., ~r . It , CN . < Poge IS . .. WI.NTER -SPORTS IN RE.TROSPE.C-T ***** ***~* .,.. ' . •\ ' . . Pucks~er$ bow'~ Army {,~:playoffs,:· .': . As the fans file~ out of ~el)~1J.es. · . -teams). Yet: t~e. P~\Vt;rs that ~e. · · hy .;U)L.:·P.ECK . . ' · . . . r · -/<~ . , .i ·' , . . • Rmk for the l~st t1me oftb~ 191]$.. who seed t.lt¢' top .~e!lm~for the . , ,, > : ' ;.., . ·\· most of,·;tli~ , 3,2QO plus .fans b~ cfea,n~r ga£9,e .. ~han the wmners, 76· hockey sea~on ·tmany · ~~ll · playoff~ feltdt~t ;Un(i?!l:s sche4uJ¢ ·· .. a ,tO:~&hc'~~e.ll.~~eyer, seedings scoi;ing \:;!1-g~)~· . a. minute later~ for·whitfit \\'~ wonh. But, as the upset and shocked that Uman · was ~ot as tougQ ~s 1t co,4ld .have; .. ~r~ s~edJpgs~ ~ng t~re wasn't Un~n 'e~~~~4,)t ;lo.tf> later in: the :saywf,ga~;\w.;ait Ulltil next year. was beaten by Army 3-2),. Qhe been, ~J.nd seeQ.~ U,l¢ Dttt~hmerh .;m.u.eh :-.bii(G~met ~;:mild do other peno~ ·.wb~~ .. 0 fete Hamilton 1oou8ft the ~Qcftlt>etition promises st';ldent turned to another and an il'tstdtiJ:~,g- 4t)1 . .for .thli! i~l~y~ff~~-, ~~-· ir)!,:. J(): .ith~w.: the seeding . score~. &n.'~ ~la{!,Shot, but it was to he much st)ffer (with U NH and satd, ~·vou ·-know, we may have Granted, ther,e ~ere . sqm.e. ~a~Y.~ :: ¢q:~roitte~·.t.~t it was wtong. a Wc:>t*4~ U~i<m ~ealll ~hat w~nt Cl!:irk§()~ ~{11Qng others added the lost, but it was a 'heck of a year, opponents on the sebedut¢, fl~t·it .. : Jlu.t·n was ®t ..to b.e. The Army to the lae~er ~00m tQcontemplate sch~<l;!A~)~ ·Qext year also promises wasn't it'!\ That about SUnlS up wouldn!t make a-Jl;y se~se: to· ~a.w > .. tlmt. Achilles rink the last 29 miti:~tes, possibly the a ~~M..:'l:J~i.;u~ team that will have the feelings of the hoekey fans. It. ;up ·an aU Merf:~ffl'!l~k or.'B~>-wdo.in. · · .. from the· last 26 'W;tll]:!t~s · t:)f.the y~ar. The the ,~~J~ te~m returning not to was a heck of a year,. wasn't it? ~ schedule wh,en yc,m · havtl, . a:. they were rest Js ~~!w:Y~ ~:·~~,nse, cautious meb~l.~~o.:.: s~nw top freshmen. An a·Jl-frceshmen team surprl~e4 freshmen team.-. S~ tl:~ere w~~-·IJ., · . ·~lay from the . Dutchm.~~ ,.~,t:!~·: was upset by A(t¢r .• ~t.tcb a .. ·great season, the even the most optimistic of' ffl.oS mjxtl!lt:e •of sQl((t. JJ.Ot -so .~~lid!: ·oanret : scored· ~r.f.lly's· -r~~~ed .• p)ay, and ;t\rmy;s yaup~:~niori .. t!'lam can only look by finishin~ the Year. wit~ 2{win~ . teams on the ·· ·:: · ·· fi~~:J?:~rioid, when D<iV¢ ~9'$t .. $C.QNt1 the game to fl~tt~( things Jn tl:le future. in .24 outings ,(pffidiaUy ·~ 2Q .. ~);· · Yet the.·· · 'b'e!l( :the Cadet wioner'.aft¢.r.~.tl1f¢~ive·Misctre by ~emarkable wheu Y.ou think .al!).t)ui ·· ·be~t . · .(~r /side. Army, ·uniOn. -.· : · · · ,, · v.: · 1t ~ut under the ,e:!(lt¢}ie,n~ Buffam mic;l:.:way through · The :un~*~Fie~~ f!lntchmen ' •. ~. t •.. '· coachmg of Ned Harkness, ~he ·Ottawa. · · tie it on a were -t~ii~~!'q- (~:·the seasQil, but all:-freshmen surprise te~rfi .. :of th~ a~lqiit)~ shockd ~~- ~yv;. · iij):.: • ..- • ..,..a 8oiing z·t;i~:f\-r real East came within a .co~ple ·'of · · -· • · ' · goals and lO rnin!,ltes of .. ,an undefeated season. How ci:id ·.it · happen? · . · · · ·· · Having a bunch .pf highly competitive,. freshmen, not· to ·mention Uiat all are go.od ·hockey_ players, Coach 1-latkiless tpolded· them into a high scoring, SQlid checking team. As it happens, the first 7 games would be the toughest of the year, but the team jelled and beat comP:etltion like Ottawa, Salem State; ana McGill .. After lqsing a. tough game at. Merrimack (it wa.s tied J .. t with about lO minute!! left in the game), the -young team really started · to .put it together and plowed through .16 straight· opponents, many of those wins coming against some good teams (Buffalo,· Hamilton, Boston State.~ Middlebury), an<! s·ometimes by outrageous scores (the .! 1·1 rout of Buffalo stands out).· The regular season was over, and Union owned the best record in the entire division (which comprises . something like 28 ' .. -. • 't: ;: •• ~· ',-' .. • - ~·· ·-~,fi\ . '.~. -~' ·, . Urii.ofi:wiilfarits 2nd year now, sponso~·th~k Annoot Intramural Box,ing..:y6tij.'tt(tment on Tuesday and · W.'¢~1ilesd.ay ·April 20 and 21 in Hw ·-Ar~nmi··Gym. The. f'QU:niament; like last year's is e~J;t#ted · to be big with not ()J1ly :-. ·.many •oorttestants but spect·atars .as well. This year's contestants are expected' to give a good' showing. Many have been pr\'paf:illg since September by .att(miftfi& 'the .intramural boxing dliss~~ .:~u\a~: ·~ere offered during tbe wipter term and are also being offer~d t1lis term on Tuesday . nightf~t,~:30 at the Alumni Gym. i All~·~i¥:orged to .sign up in Bob ! . QriscpJt's. office as soon as ~ pos:s:n~J'e'. No· e xpe l\'ienced ~ compe.titive bo-xers will be · .8 aUowe(i<to enter the tournament ~ ~ it i& .atrieHy for those students ~ who .l)~ye· p(!t bad a background '6, of COlJI;petitive bouts. :··-,. . . t Lejmen finis~,·on top lJy JEFF SCHEININGE,Ji: Hoopsters .sacrifice much The past Varsity basketball season was perhaps the most by MARK GLAZER interesting that this writer has forward Clete· McGlocklin was observed in his four yeats at moved back to tlteguard slot, and· Union. In past years, there hav.e Steve Kelly hecam<'! !l swingman . been tnore successful teams in between fdrward, .. · center, and terms of statistics, yet this 75-76 . guard. The starting hackcourt was team's success cannot be forced to .play almost the ~ull 40 measured purely by. the «stats.\ 1 minute game. , In addition, felt the team's success was Scanloo was forced. to teach a measured by its remarkable .. crash course~· of . Union Denio, .fischer, and Steve Kelly, the tri~captains, are lea:ving, The three will always be remembered for. -their fantastic careers at IJpion, their· leadership, and thelt ()ptstartding play. The Denio's, Kelly's, and: Fischer's of toa.ay are hopefully the Meola's, Q~rgese's,and. Walker's of the futu~e. Only time will tell. The (Inion C~llege . Indoor Bob ~9ffit. ~ 600 yard run; Tract< . T~ail_l r~ahzed tts full Steve JAnes \\\' 2 mile run; Milt potentia~- 4.n·,th:e last meet of the HerriJ\I~- \':i- SO _yard dash; and in season, Jl!at !Peet was the the ri.Jile .relay Dave Ricks, Steve Elevejlth -•. Annu;tl · New York Maste!Jis. · .B(Uy Augie and Bob Sta;t~:,. t:ndoot Track Moffi(~H<ibM~{fit completed an Cham:p~~6:s~!P· .1?te Garne~ took_ exce·~l~~i·::$~~sart by setting a ne_w first p_la~ tn,. .. dus, the btggest · m~t;,•:l,J19 \~·PJ Ar:mcry record m meet of the &~s~_,n! t~ ~·~yard run witl:l a time of Taking:fttst pUt~e: 'tierthswere; 1:12:5';<·. i ., · · · '. · '' · ·. · St~~~J:ohe~ added to Union's ability to overcome unforeseen basketball _to new players Mike obstacles tliat seemed to ·.build Sll).iih, Ro.ger Sym-onett_e, and : : : : . throughout the first 3 months of Dan Degregory, while as~isiant , ~ ;\\. the season. coach Earl Rogt?iiS . developed . :':'-.' , . sco~iif,t~,:tr~Jilj) \ by taki:ng second plac~ (i~<Jhe· ~ile run and then com~i\t~d\ ·wjth Lee Parish, Stan WiSk6~~kl':alld Kevin Scheuer to New NCAA Division Ul ndes freshman hopeful}.(Who. could be .; prevented Coach Bill Scanlon used on· Varsity) l.lt ~ Junior from suiting up thirteen p·Iayets Varsity level. Mark Reckuki Was for road trips, therefore in order eventually this freshman selected 'to alleviate the situation, Scanlon to play on Varsity, only dressed up tWelve players, Thus, it. Was understandable even at home games. This rule, when Onion got off to it~ slow which was changed by mid- start, (3-4). But each los$. tagght ·season, ·proved to be Unien' something new about~.the contrabeneficial to the Garnets. game, and it ailowed the new Success in actual games had to be players to earn some vaiuable achieved by Scanlon's hard playing time. practices, The fewer players the Finally. mid-way through the team carries, the less rest the season in January, Coach regulars get in practice, which Scanlon found his winning increases the possiblity of burning . combination. Denio and Borgese players out. This is very at the guard slots, Kelly and important when one considers the Fischer at forward, and freshman style of basketball Union plays: Roger Symonette at center, hard-nosed 3/4 court man-to-man. splitting the duties with AI defense, and a free-lance offense Walker and Mike Smith. Pete which requires constant Meola was the always available movement without the ball. 6th man, always ready to pick the After the team was selected, team up. two guards, both with promising Wins started coming until we futures at Union, elected to leave Won 14 out of the last 16 games. the team for personal reasons. The end of the season leaves This required serious re- Scanlon with the usual task of strur•::r!ng on the team. 6'3\ replacing his seniors. This year's ; '\_ .... ·\\. THE TWO ttRiS YOU'RE ENCAGEDTO JUST REALIZED THEY HAD SOMETHING IN COMMON. YOU. MAYBE WHAT YOU .NEED IS A MAXIMUS SUPER. Maximua Super Beer. F. X. Ma\t Brewing Co., Utica, N.Y. ta&;~·/J-.n~th~r second place in the Distance, Medley Relay. In the l,oOO·.:··.:yatd run, Kevi:n Scheuer disp~~Y6d ·hJs .strong running style placi~g. .. · s~.:;:opd in. that event. D~ve '~ic(¢s, the most experienced and· vetsatHe of Unio-n~s team,\ $;' ,. • 4 • took secpnd place) honors in the 440 y'ai:d' ·run_ .... ·\ In .. the · pole vaulting event, Ricks took Jrd .place with a jump of 13 feet 6 inches. Finally, Ricks completed his scoring contribution.s by placing sixth in the long jump. Otller scores made by Union were: Billy Augie - forth place in th~ 440 yard run; and Stan Wiskowski ~ sixth in the mile run. By winning the States, Union's track team completed a good season with a very impressive victory. It is appropriate for this reporter to express his congratulations, on behalf of the Union community, to Coach Michelson, Captain Dave Plummer, and to all the members of the team.

~ .; ~ , 1 ~ • • I ' !I, ' Ppge/6 CONCORDIENSIS, We4nesda_y, Apri/7, 1976 concordy spor,ts . SPRING SPORTS LINE-UP Laxmen open on Saturday by NEAL ADAM SCHWART~ This Saturday, at 2:00 p.m. on Daley Field, Union hosts Hartwick in their opening game of the season. With the best pre- season weather in_a long time ~ plus good scrimmages, the La crosse team is further along than last year. Coach Allison spoke ol this year's four scrimmages as compared to only one scrimmage last year as a major factor. Union defeated Colgate by a 12-5 score and lost to Bucknell in early scrimmages as well as meeting Mohawk and SUNY at Albany. There are 27 members on the squad with only one freshman this year. The team is led by captains Don Ward and Jim Thompson. The tentative starting lineup is as follows: on the attack, John Thompson, Roy Stecker and either Stu Napear or Hank Fleming. Starting on Defense this Saturday will most likely be Ken Beck, Pete Karmen, and Doug Klepper. Allison noted that he was very pleased with the progress· of the other defensemen ~ Bob Schick, Bill Glavin, John Eklund, and Bruce Harvey - and with good performances any could see a lot of action this 'season. ln the goal there are three candidates f~~ t~e one spot: Steve ... Haddad, AI Ritchie and tresfiman Alan Greenberg. AI Ritchie and Steve Haddad have played for the last two years but the starting position will most likely be decided the day of the game. In the midfield, Coach Allison will use all four lines .as much as possible. The green line consists of Frank .Pangie, Jim Thompson and Andy Brooks. The red line members are Don Ward, Bruce Davis, and Jim Felix. The gold line which may start the game Saturday, consists of Mike Densmore, Carl Walker, and Jim Collin. The white line sports Barry Pannell, Roger Finck, and John BreaJ.Ilt. Frank Pangie is the only injured member of the team when he suffered a cheek injury ·in practice. But, hopefully, the Lacrosse team will not suffer the two knee injuries that plagued them last year. Not too much is known about the Hartwick squad that Union faces this Saturday. A strong spring crowd will undoubtably be present at 2:00 this weekend. Union has a very challenging schedule this year with only I I games for the season, as Trinity was dropped from the .schedule. After Hartwick, Union goes on the road for 3 games against Siena, Syracuse - ranked 13th in the country t. and Williams. \Cor.h'tside with Lippman\ \1cns Volleyball: 'I here will be Thursday April 8. an organi1ational meeting in the Indoor Track Meet: An official Bloc.k lJ Room m the Alumm · indoor track meet will he held on (;y m at 7:00 p.m. on l hursday Sunday April II at I :00 p.m. in Apnl 8. the Fieldhouse. The events as Womens Soccer: There will b~ follows: I) Field events, Long an organi1ational meeting in the Jump, High Jump, Shot Put. 2) Block U Room in the· Alumni Running Events, ·1 wo mile relay, Gym at 9:00 p.m. on Thursday 50 yeard dash trials, 55 Hurdle April 8. trials, mile run, 4lap relay, 600, Co-Ed Ultimate Frisbee: There 800, 50 yard final, 55 Hurdle will be an organizational meeting Final, mile relay. in the Block U Room in the Womens Super Star Contest: Alumni Qym at 8:00 p.m. on On Wednesday April 14 at 7 p.m. \Little T' Thompson maneuvering for explosive goal. Diam·ond men fo,ok tough by OTTO VELEZ The Union College ·Baseball freshman at shortstop and behind will bring depth to the inne-r line season swings into full gear this the plate. Right now, battling bf defense. At first base senior Saturday as the H-ballers travel each other for the right to wear Randy Ruschak rounds out the west to take on Utica College in \the tools of ignorance\ are infield. Randy hit .390 last year in the season opener. After 6 weeks Dennis ''Skeeter\ Gazola and a 1st base and DH 'role. Battling of practice in Schenectady's Chris Massaroni. Regardless of Randy for his job, frosh Steve 'version of the Superdorile; the who starts, there is no doubt that Baker. Both Baker and Ruschack Memorial Fieldhouse, and 2 the Garnet will be solid behind have hot o~ts and most likely weeks outside on Alexander field, the plate. At third base;, veteran both will appear in the batting the character of the team is senior Don Milder will return to order at either 1st or· DH·. beginning to reveal itself. his old haunts. Dortny had to Out in the ••pasture\ the anchor The Bi-centennial versi6n of the catch last year as injuries to the m~n is junior Gary Borgese. Union Baseball te~m is going to. team forced him to vacate the hot \Geese\ hit a torrid .431 last be' built around a powerful corner. Most probably, due to the spring to pace the team, and offense and a stidgy dt:fense. At wear and tear of that position, · flagged down numeruos fly balls this point the pitching staff Don dropped off. bis usual .300 in centet field. ln · .right field remains the only question mark.· batting, moving down to .285 last sophomore Carmen Gatta will To quote the venerable mentor of · year but is looking to have that return to add lefthanded punch to the squad, Coach Lawrence, hot bat again this spring. the .offense. The left field spot will .. We;ve got a potent attack, one Freshman John \Whit\ be manned by Dan DeGregery, that can put runs on the board, Kennedy is Don~s backup and has another sophomore. Dan is new our only area of uncertainty is the demonstrated the glove work of to this position, as he played 3rd pitching ... if we can get a couple our accomplished infielders in base last year when Milder of hot starters we could have pre-season workouts. At caught. ourselves quite a season.\ It shortstop, frosh football star This year's pitching staff can be would be nice not only for the Jerry Logan is looking for his 2nd described in • one Word,· three seniors, Randy Ruschak, varsity letter as he takes the place inexperienced. Charlie Flanagan Don Milder and John Busterud, of graduated Ron Westbrook. heads the list of torch throwers. but for Coach Lawrence himself, Logan brings solid credentials to Coming off a 3-1 won-lost record who is in his final season as the infield as his strong arm and a year ago, Charlie still needs Union's diamond leader. good hands will no doubt be work to shake early seasen jitters Based around a vetera·n fixtures at shortstop for four in order to achieve consistency. nucleus, the 76 sluggers have years. The other half of the Last year's relief ·man John helped themselves in the off- double play combination is Mayer, throwing \better every season with a few hot freshman manned by another senior, second day, appears to be another starter tol!kies. The infield will sport a baseman John Busterud. along with 'the Doctor, AI Busterud, the team's RBI leader Walker. Freshmen Paul Brown, 'fhe Hies captured the \B\ · league championship, nipping a stubborn Chi: Psi five. One innocent bystander; a legend in his own right, termed the • contest a ••chiller.'' Tim Minneci played gallantly for. the Hie five. ·In the \A'; league finals Chi Psi- repulsed a gallant effort from the Seward Rats. The same innocent bystander yawned when asked his. opinion on the game. the first annual Super Star contest will be held in the i·ieldHouse- tvents such as the Cluh Snatch, ·1 arget I hrow, and Vengeance Volleyball, will take place. Women are to enter as a team. Each team 'should consist of 6 women. First prize will be dinner for six at Mother Ferro's. Prizes will also be given to the best male cheering section. Entry forms and further infarmation for all events are available in Bob Driscoll's office. last year hit .351 in the bargain. Jim Monnet and Mike Stockman John's backup is slick-fielding round out the remaining Garnet Paul Waldek, a local product who hurlers. Tennis anyone? by MASON R GOMBERG . Spring semester means a lot of things to Union students: Jackson· Gardens, frisbees, softball games and tennis. Tennis is a prime activity for a majority of Union members; but as a sport it doesn't . get the attention, support, or attendance other sports receive. Believe it or not. the male tennis team was not included in last year's Union Book. Yes, Union College does 'have a tennis team. I his year the team has a new · coach. I ndejit Singh is ranked on the East coast, and is considered the best tennis player in the Albany-Schenectady area. He hopes to be competing in Forest Hills next fall and holds high expectation for this year's squad. As .of now, not considered one of the strongest teams, 3 members of last year's team are back. Steve Marcus and Dennis Lindenberg are both standout singles players who are in their third tennis campaign. I-ncluded in this group, after a promising freshman year, Rolf Lipton (winner of the Newton Junior Invitational) will be one of the top singles players. Rounding out this year's tennis squad are: Jeff Scheminger, Chuck Hoffman, Jim Lippman, Bob Gerber, Andy Wessen, Larry Fein and second time player, Paul Wantauk. This year\s schedule appears tough. Matches begin this Saturday with a home game against R.P.I. at 2:00. Upcoming matches at home are, April 13: Williams at 3; April 15, Clark at 2. Overall appraisal: Improved coaching and desire by all members .should be enough to overcome the rough schedule to produce a winning year. Good luck, .guys!

, ... . ' \ ... , .. \• .. \ ... , . ,·· . The Black Student's Alliance Newspaper Vol. 4, No. 6 April 7, 1976 .,,,,,:·,,ll!~fi'''''''\'''±1$tl£''\'''''\'.'''''\'''.?\''\''''*\'''''''~'i\'''''i''!:?t¥''\''''\''*\\'\'''tful1il~'''''\'''''*'''''\'''\.'\\'''\''~@·•ttlllllll~''''\''''.'\'\'lliiil~'''\'\'''* Editorial Prerogative Second term has .concluded; naturally, third term has commenced with its usuat full force. So, we've . come back to · the same \ole\ well-discipline atmosphere. The same . ''ole~' thing we ~ave ·complained about-·· hated-· and toved. The work truck has d.ropped its load to deliver its. sleepless ·nights of heavy reading. So what comes next? There's a million-list. alternative sheet I can pick from. In today's world · anything can be considered possible but not· probable. Therefore, predicting behavior, events,· and phenomena (even weather) becomes hard to do. If all follows \.logically then, predictions and · project1ons would be possible but not probable. So . what predictions and proJections, do I have? What are these predictions in relations to Union College?· First, I must confess that I am not a fortune teller, . a witch d.Gct0r, psychic, or forecaster. · •' My· predictions ·are based on observations; observations of three years of experiences; observations of two years of survival and adjust- ments; observations of two years of struggling - determination - the need to succeec;l. It can be thought of as a hobby. Try it! Predicting!. It appears that everyone does it at some point in his lif~~ if. not constantly~ The gathering, formulating, seeing or sensing of information by· noting facts or occurrences which result .in a (subjective but valid) conclusion - is a most interesti!lg pastime. My predicting in relations to Union is unchanged. I predict that the hostile racial attributes, the difficult social life, and the egotistical faculty will remain constant even though times have changed and another tetm has gone by us. Union will continue to be an isolate island in an unfamiliar world; conservative and dusty; a beautiful old book that crumbles at touch. (\It's a nice place to _visi~ _!Jut I won~t want to live there.\) But my predictions also include that she will always remain a magnificent landmark that we will always have a soft spot for within our hearts - an antique that is outdated and obsolete. But Union observe! Observe through a Merriam- Webster sense! Observe, in the sense, to conform one's actions or practice - through careful attention to what's happening around you - what's happening in your own back yard - come to realize through consideration of noted facts. My projections defer far from this. My predictions ate hat everything will still be everything no matter ow much time has passed or how much progress has been made globally. I can't see anyone who has observed - observed the needed change. You say things are being done - show me! I have made my predictions from observations; from· past observations. History (the past) seems to be repeating itself, with Union. beingno exception. . i . \To be or not to be\ I 11!1~!!11-BIItl~W!!I1 ........... 1i .. BiD.;JJii Black Politics Ncar the closing of last term, the lnternational Relations Club sponsored a lecture and discussion with Mr. James Bristol, brother of Prof. Wm. Bristol in Latin American Studies. His speech was appropriate for a follow-up to the .. Angola Crisis,\ in the last issue of Perspective because he had just recently (several days) returned from an international conference in Havana, Cuba concerning Angola. Since there has been no recent accounts in the media about the situation, this article has been based primarily on Mr. Bristol's discussion. He feels there is no longer a crisis in Angola but acknowledges the fact that there has been a crisis in southern Africa, in general, since 1954. The M PLA had requested the Cuban government to host this seminar. Invitations were sent out· to aU guests. There were twenty- six people from the United States involved in the seminar, incl~ding five women with 21 men of whom 15 were Blacks, 9 white, I Puerto Rican and one Chicano; A total of seven journalists, six of which International Level representing various question and answer session and organizations. proposals for action were The MPLA representatives suggested. projected a flair of an The MPLA representatives independent nation. One of whom expressed that they were striving was a military service man who for a harmonious atmosphere fought on the east, a minister of within Angola through socialism. foreign aff~irs and the final ofthe Agric-ulture, health, and three representatives was from the education were the 3 priorities of department of foreign relations. the country for improvement. The Mr. Bristol said he was impressed independent nation is taking a (as well as the other members- non-alliance or neutral status guests) that · the M PLA among nations of the world with representatives didn't come on South Africa being the only strong or radical with their point nation Arrgola did not want to of view and held no ill wishes or establish rel~tions with. Angola hostility against the United States wants economic aid from all the or China; they lacked a reve'Tlgeful major powers of the world. The attitude with any of their enemies. leaders said that there would be The Angolans felt that only the no guerrilla warfare allowed with leaders within their opposition the civilians supporting this should be punished; not t-roops or action fully. They made a point of civilians. They were welcoming mentioning that there were no anyone into the \nation building'' U.S. mercenaries in the Peoples community who had laid down Republic of Angola. The famous their weapons. Gulf Oil Company's freeze on The Cuban hosts were w~rm production was over and the U.S. and friendly but had a non- planes were finally delivered. At' interference policy concerning the the present time production is at a seminar which they followed to minimal level of operation with the letter. There was only one good physical integrity. Cuban observer by M PLA request who said nothing .. ••••••••••••••••••••••• were . Biack and 19 people throughout the seminar, as the

l . ' ; I I I I I I. iw i'l 'I l ;·\ ·l l I I ! : I I I I : I I ' • I ·I ! I -iff The Black Student's Alliance Newspaper \ ' • ' I.- • 1, • • .\ t '' ! ~ '' t . • : ' • ' ' , : • Editorial Prerogative Second term has concluded; naturally, third term has commenced with its usual full force. So, we've come back to the same \ole\ well-discipline atmosphere. The same \ole\ thing we have complained about - hated - and loved. The work truck has dropped its load to deliver its sleepless nights of heavy reading. So what comes next? There's a million-list alternative sheet I can pick from. In today's world anything can be considered possible but not probable. Therefore, predicting behavior, events, and phenomena (even weather) becomes hard to do. If all follows logically, then, predictions and projections would be possible but not probable. So what predictions and projections . do I have? What are these predictions in relations to Union College? First, I must confess that I am not a fortune teller, a witch doctor, psychic, or forecaster. My predictions are based on observations; observations of three years of experiences; observations of two years of survival and adjust- ments; observations of two years of struggling determination - the need to succeed. It can be thought of as a hobby. Try it! Predicting! It appears that everyone does it at some point in his life, if not constantly. The gathering, formulating, seeing or sensing of information by noting facts or occurrences which result in a (subjective but valid) conclusion - is a most interesting pastime. My predicting in relations to Union is unchanged. I predict that the hostile racial attributes, the difficult social life, and the egotistical faculty will remain constant even though times have changed and another term has gone by us. Union will continue to be an isolate island in an unfamiliar world; conservative and dusty; a beautiful old book that crumbles at touch. (\It's a nice place to vi~it. but I won't want to live there.\) But my predictions also include that she will always remain a magnificent landmark that we will always have a soft spot for within our hearts - an antique that is outdated and obsolete. But Union observe! Observe through a Merriam- Webster sense! Observe, in the sense, to conform one's actions or practice through careful attention to what's happening around you - what's happening in your own back yard - come to realize through consideration of noted facts. My projections defer far from this. My predictions are that everything will still be everything no matter how much time has passed or how much progress has been made globally. I can't see anyone who has observed - observed the needed change. You say things are being done - show me! I have made my predictions from observations: from past observations. History (the past) seems to be repeating itself, with Union being no exception. ., \. f Black Politics \car the dming uf la~t t.:rm the International Relations Club sponsored a lecture and discussion with Mr. Jame~ Bri~tol. brother of Prof. Wm. Bristol in Latin American Studies. His speech \\as appropriate for a follow-up to the \Angola Crisis,\ in the last issue of Perspective because he had just recently (several days) returned from an international conference in Havana, Cuba concerning Angola. Since there has been no recent accounts in the media about the ~ituation, this artide has been based primarily on Mr. Bristol's discussion. He feels there is no longer a crbis in Angola but al:knowledges the fact that there has heen a crbis in southern Africa, in general, ~incc 1954. l'hc M PLA had reljUested the Cuhan go\Crnment to host this :-.emirm r. Invitations were sent out to all gUe!'>tS. rhere \\ere tv.enty- ~i:-, people from the United State~ irl\ohed in the ~eminar, induding li\c \\omen with 21 men of v.hom 15 v.crc Blacb, 9 \\hite, I Puerto Riean and one Chicano; A total of seven journalists, six of which •••••••••••••••••••••••••• were Black and 19 people \To be or not to be\ International level repre:..enting \ariou' organi1ations. The M PLA representatives projected a flair of an independent nation. One of whom was a military service man who fought on the ca:..t, a minister of foreign affair~ and the final of the three representatives wa~ from the department af r oreign relations. Mr. Bristol said he was impressed (as well as the other members- guests) that the M PLA representatives didn't come on strong or radical with their point of view and held no ill wishes <n ho~tility again:..t the ll nited State~ or China; they laded a reH'ngcful attitude v.ith any of their enemies. I he Angolans felt that only the leader:.. v. ithin their oppm.ition ~hould he puni~hed; not troop:. or ci\ iliam. lhej v.ere v.ekomi ng anyone into the \nation building\ communi!) \\ lw had laid dll\\!1 their weapons. I he Cuhan ho~b \\ere \\arm and friend I:. hut had a non- intcrfcrcncl' llllliq l'P!Kt'l ning thl' seminar \\ hich they followed to the letter. There v.a~ ~ml) one Cuban oh~ei·vcr h) M Pl. A re4uest v.ho said nothing throughout the seminar. as the ljUC~Iil•ll and arl~l\ ~,.·r ~c.:~~illll ,l!lU prop osa Is for action were suggested. I he !\1 P LA n:prc.:~enta ti\ e~ expressed that they were ~tri\ ing for a harmonious atmosphere v.ithin Angola through ~m:iali~m. Agriculture. health. and education were the ~priorities of the country for impro> ement. I ht: independent nation i~ taking a non-alliance or neutral status among nations of the world with South Africa being the only nation An·gola did not want to estahlish relations with. Angola wants economic aid fn1m all the major pov.crs of the v.orld. The leaden said that there would he no guerrilla v.arfare alltmed v.ith the l.'i\iliam ~upporting thi~ actinn full~. 'The) made a pl1int uf mentioning that there v.cre !lll l' .S. merl.'enarie~ in the People~ Republic of Angola. I he famom (iulf Oil Company\ lrccte on prllduction \\a~ o\cr and the l'.S plane-. \\ere fin;tll) Jl..'!i' crcd. \r the p!l''cnt timl· prndmti••n j, .tl .t minimal le\l'i 1•! upl'r,lti••n 1\ith good ph)sical integrit),

WHO WE. ABE? j Penpective Staff Editor-in-Chief ........ ., . .,.,,.~ ...••.• ·fl····· ... ., ......... ~ ...... Q'\\' •• •o•• .................... \ •• Gail -Chatman Photography Editor .. G.,, ....................... _ •••••••••••••••••••• fiG•e••••••······ William A •. Collins Black History COnsultant •• e ••••••••••••••• l.oe •• , ••••• \ ........................... Sadama N. H·oms Recognition ............. ,. ............................. Marilyn V. Becton, Tamara, Jerry Lee, Joseph Johnson, Roger Symonette, Ana Logy, Debs Billings, Gloria Jones, Carlos Rojas-Hilland wife, Phyllis James. Special Recognition ................................ The Black Journal of Poetry, President Bonner, Mr. James Bristol, Ining Kaufman, the International Relations Club, Prof. Wrn. Bristol, David Mathews, the Dutch Hollow Pub,. Prof. Reynolds, Prof. Jonas, Peach Brandy Special9 Special Recognition .................................................... Mr. Jay Shupe ill Health, Drugs, Medicine THE COMMO·N COLD The weather leads everyone to believe that another \cold epidemic\ is on its way. . For several days it has been cool and windy with accompanying showers periodically. It's time for that uncurable - unvaccinative - drink plenty of liquid bug. We're ready for you. Silliman Hall will have a 24-hour rush hour. The c()mmon cold is here for another ''round\ with the diligent, intellectual, academic- minded student. The common cold appears as a catarrhal disorder of the respiratory tract. It may be a virus due to co.ld and wet weather exposure. It is identified with sniffling, sneezing, itchy throat, coughs, running nose, ear aches, chills,· slight headaches, watery extra hours of sleep at night. eyes, general aching, or a slight (Naturally, when the cold change in temperature ·of your epidemic comes all Union oral thermometer. students will die because we have I.nvestigation into the no time to follow this treatment mecqanics of the body in to take care of ourselves.) One conjunction with a cold reveals should stay Warm Without that if your body temperature constant change in environmental drops to below 94° F, there will be · temperature. (Impossible - you a disorder in the· regulatory must go to class when it is -20° F heating system within the, and 12 inches of snow.) He hypothalamus. A common cold is· should drink plenty of liquids (1 the result ~f this process. It is an can't afford my books.) with acute and extremely contagious aspirin bringing the best relief. virus infection that attacks the Facts obtained from: Dorland's membranes of the body .. One can Illustrated • Medical Dictionary, expect a cold to last from 7 to 14 1966, W.B. Saunders Company, days if he takes care of himself. Phi!., Penn. and the Encyc:lopedla How do you take care of and Dictionary -uf Medicine and yourself! The best·treatment is to Nursing 1972. ' go to bed at the first sign or get ' Sleepy, huh? .. - ~·- ~-\'\-. You 1ot a mouth fuU .,r it! \ Letter tO the Editor Dear Editor: 32 Austin A venue Albany, N.Y. February 26, 1976 Anti-racist actiVIsts from around the country gathered in Boston on February 21st. to attend a steering committee meeting of the National Student Coalition Against Racism (NSCAR), Nearly 300 people met at BostQn University to make plans to take action against racist attacks, especially those taking .place in Boston around the busines issue; NSCAR was . formed one year ago by supporters of the December 14, 1975 pro-busing d~monstration ip Boston. It played an important role in ntobilizing support for the May 17th NAACP action which drew 15,000 people to Boston to demand an end to racist attacks and forced· segregation. Many issues involving racist practices were discussed at the meeting. Activities NSCAR is involved in include defense support for victims of racist frame-ups like the one against Hmricane Carter, support for. affirmative action programs, demonstrations against cutbacks in education, and actions against U.S. inv()lvement in Anga·Ja. The main focus of the discussion was on the need to take action against violent racist attacks on busing. Racist thugs in organizations li.ke ROAR (Restore Our Alienated Rights), the Ku Klux Klan, and the American Nazi Party, have attacked \Black school children, stoned school buses, broken up meetings of desegregation supporters, attacked the homes of Blacks living in mainly white areas, and attacked Blacks using beaches the racists think should be used by whites only. The \anti- busing\ movement is nothing more than a segregationist drive against Black tights. NSCAR says· NO! to this. It supports the right of Black children to have an education. In Boston this means busing. To back up the ·legally required busing program, and to . show the racists that they will not be allowed to impose their will by force and violence, it was decided at the 'steering committee to Jaunch a series .of local actions on the Weekend of April 2-3, when ·the anniversary of the murder of Martin Luther King will.be noted. Activities will include picket lines, rallies, and educational meetings. This will be the first step toward building another mass, national demonstration to demand that the attacks on busing be stopped. A NSCAR member, David Matthews ( Integra Webster's segregatiot common ~ in society This defin negative interpretati society tc blacks. lnt integrating that intelli, Blacks. ·W situat~on is biases·· an dominant to. test .. Tl desigh,i~g· valldate .. ~tij ba~kgrqhn difference: Bfacks.' ai' gr(}up. in· : ... - ... .4>,' partl~l}')~te the <l~mf acquiring validi~y wl always th~ distributio tests .. Test~ eliminate c specific bi participati' distributio today. At pr common • m societ; Secol a ne1 purp1

PERSPECTIVE, Wednesday! April7, 1976 PageC ! K-no hy·'s Fables ! il Once upon a time in the limd of Onion Collide there was a .. racing\ iC ic young terrier named Weener who had no PhD. Most of the i' ~ inhabitants of the land were older than he with PhD's and had long -fc -..,.. been residing there. The instructing school had just released him four i' -tc · years ago. He had previously been a resident of the land of Ill-will . -tc and Rolley in those years before his arrival at Onion Collide. He is 1' .Jc now an educator below professional rank in the Socieosdence branch -fc .:k in Onion Collide. His relationship with minoritories are lacing even il ! . though he supposingly an expert in such matters. i' ..,.. A number of minoritories which he has been assigned to educate -tiC -tc · have come to him for advise proof-reading and commenting on rough iC drafts. His duties in Onion Collide included such things an educator. il _..,.. I, Ana Logy, being unfamiliar with the subject, would like to know, +; ::!; does that include laughing in a students face or telling them vidous it -..,.. lies concerning academic affairs so that he can distribute D's and F's .fl +: in evaluating the progress of the education he has given minoritiroes. il ~ There def.initely appears to be a problem with Weener in relations ~ ~ il ·to minoritories, I wonder what it could be? Conclusion: Has anyone ?- . graded my paper? +: +:: \However not reaUy caring whether or not it ~ iC took six whole months to do a paper ~ and not -tl il considering that it was only 30 pages long, it iC couldn't be done poorly! -tic .. ~~:~~~Ju:t t~~t ;:;!~~~~r~ ~~:d~~~a~Bl:~k~a~~~~ka~:::tt Wi~ter : . . ' ~- '-· :~························~ Be a tittle more tidy, please1 The Identity Crisis Part·ll· The staff of Perspective would like to announce our appreciation and special thanks to President Bonner, Prof. Jonas and Prof. Reynolds for their honest concern expressed in the letters sent to the Black Student Alliance and administrative figures on campus concerning the poor racial attributes on campus and the establishment of the Commission. The to·gical Choice: Integrate, Assinlilate or Asso~iate Integration defined by Blacks ts in exerctsmg that Assimilation, like integration, is a Webster's is \to end the common and equal membership. racist concept, The. Portugese and segregation of and bring into Therefore Blacks do not need to French used thi~ policy in common and equal membership integrate (which is impossible), colonial Africl!.. Th~zy;oncept calls in society or an organization.\ but to participate in the common for the total shedding of on.e This definition is by no means and equal membership. This culture and the internalizing of negative, however, the Black participation is 'What is another. Assimilation, in effect, interpretation integration has in being denied by barriers designed requires the denial of our racial society today is negative for to exclude thern. and cultural heritage. This denial blacks. Inherent in the concept of Integration implies that Blacks by blacks, allows them to integrating schools, is the idea will be \equal.\ But Blacks are intern a I i'z e the ide a of that intelligence will \r~b off' on and always have been· ·~equ~l\ individualism as opposed to Blacks. · WhHe the re~:dity of the The question is one of \equity.\ community, . This.:, iridiv\dualisrn situati.on is th~t, what~Y,;rcu)tural · This country is run on \equity;\ man.ifests itse1f·'i~n '~,;tie: statement \l biases are . bei'fl~ .. taught, . the money is not' everything, ·yet. it am not my·::btpthe.r's 'Keeper.\ dominants.yh?~l:.~Y.!t~~in. intends gets what <Jne need~·in A~e.rica in From this st~teme.nt-fratricicle is to. test .. Thts ts a~comphshed by order to survive. But :instead of .not a :large_ 'step .. An example of desigh,i~g· :te~is·~ wtiidh' tend to .:~equity,'' we get Integration. this is .RQY Innis of C.O.R.E. valld~te)·Ke· f:tat(~r'erite in cultti~al' Integration to me im,P,lies .-racial a~king foi\' 3QQ .AilJ~rifa.n, ~~Jacks, b~l'k~r9ttq-~s _, ~ng ~t~ribJ.:I~~ ,,f:~~s- · ~-nd cultural sftp\!r~j,}rity:, ·Tire· lde.a whic'h were . to' be ·sent' to ·Angola qtfference' to trrtelhgenc~. ~~tnce th.at one race or culture rs . to h~lp · ·the. .Aoieticah backed ~flicks:· av~!;~l)ot. the, :,{tilt}:ftr~:Q·~. yst.iperio.r to another is}ud~crous.. Liberation. MovernenL Those gn~~P_, ··~~ ·~ .. s.?ci,etY.~);, 1 tMf':.~·;:~.u~··,H~ineri.e~ has.' ahv~ys ·~~~n .·a '8t'a'cks ~ere e~,c~llenr'stuqents of partl~Jf)~te'·. m the .In(ihtt,ttlpnst of .. pJurahstrc S9Ciety, a:nd )· do· not · assimilation~ and, as Q'oted·above, tl1e <l\'lmfnant groitP:.\- :··lfhe~eby . se~· the hariri in beinz:f such.'. The . mercinaries of a fra'tr'ifldal nature. acquiri-ng labels.· 'that· 'have· 'no harm is when one member of the 1 see assimilation into the validity whatsoever. Sti~ltthere is· pluralistic .society has the values; American· mal·nstream as always the problem of equitable mores, and values of the other detrimental to the Black distribution of resources through society being imposed upon them. comlnunity; and produces Blacks tests .. Tests should be designed to This imposhion, along with the 'who are willing to maintain the eliminate cultural bias or reflect a denial of \equity · creates an Status Quo. An example can be specific bias. This would make urtbridgeable racial hiatus. To seen in South Africa today .. Since participation more equitable in even attempt to give validity to there are 8lack liberii.tion distribution of economic earnings the concept of integrati_on is an movements prone to. violence in today. , . insult to the Black Race and its South Africa, the government has At present Blap'ks have culture, not 'to mention a denial decided that Blacks .may now join common and ,equal rrtembership of reality. the Army, in society. The pr?~lem fq.r Should Blacks. assimilate? ,, THIS SPACE RESERVED · for headline of YOUR article for . the next issue, . - ~ . . ' Second Floor Hickok has · a new occupant for spying purposes. \ I hear Jerry Lee has wooden teeth. Roger, I still didn't get the second thing. Association is the Answer. With association, there is mutual respect. No culture implies that .• another is superior and the ·prese~vation of both is enhanced. Association does not care about attitudes, but rather, has a vested interest in barrier elimination. Barrier elimination is a necessity if association is going to be effective in a pluralistic society. Associationists ·would be. about the business of developing ' techniques that would eliminate the barriers, while' validating the distinct cultural differences that · exist. Obviously, the observations made here are not the p1ost . p.rofound. Nor has the. author ·attempted to go 'into depth. What the author has triecl to Qo is to identify ateas of concern: and ways of looking at labels. I Qu' dulce eres!

PageD B I a e· \Black Powe~\ During the Reconstruction Period What was done with the defeated South? That was the question in everyone's mind as the Civil War came to an end with lee's surrender. .Lineoln's announced plan was to reinte- grate southern states into the Union as soon as ten percent of the pre-war voters took an oath of loyalty. Andrew Johnson, who became president as the result of the assassination of Lincoln, was even more lenient to the secessionists. He was liberal with pardons to the Confederate leaders, allowing them to retain their land and political power. He withdrew almost all federal troops from the South, leaving the newly freed slaves defenseless. Under Johnson's \Restoration\ plan; the southern states voted the old slaveholding. aristocracy back into power. lh 1866, they brazenly sent scores of top Confederate officers to Washington ·- one new Congressman was the Vice President of the Confederacy, Alexander Stephens! Southern • legislatures enacted \Black Codes\ that made a mockery of emancipation by applying the restrictions of the Old Slave Codes to all free Negroes. Even the slave trade was not absent: in 1866 there reportedly was a big trade in the shipment of kidnapped freedmen to Brazil and Cuba. Terror was unchecked: anti-Negro riots in New Orleans and Memphis enjoyed the active backing of the police. The anti-slavery forces had won the war, but they were· rapidly losing the peace. Led by Thaddeus Stevens and Charles Sumner, the .. Radical Republicans\ in Washington condemned the virtual re- enslavement of Black people in the South and moved to halt it. Although Congress failed (by a single vote) to impeach Andrew Johnson, the lawmakers did k succeed in taking the direction of Reconstruction out of the President's hands. The Republicans passed three crucial constitutional amendments, abolishing slavery, declaring the Negro a dtizen, and granting him the right to vote. They took the important step of mandating federal troops to enforce the Reconstruction acts and defend the rights and lives of freedmen in the South. \Radical Reconstruction\ lasted only from 1867 to 1876, This much-maligned decade is a fascinating episode in the drama of American history, and it holds many surprises for the researcher. A Civil Rights Bill was passed a hundred years ago which was more extensive and had more rigorous provisions for enforce- ment than the famous legislation of 1964. Twenty-two Negroes served in the United States Congress, and dozens were elected to state legislatures during the Reconstruction era. Southern states had Black sheriffs, mayors, judges and policemen. Three states had Negro lieutenant governors. The South Carolina House of Representatives was the only state assembly with a Negro majority, but hundreds of local commumtles were under the control of their Black residents. There were many outstanding Afro-American leaders during the Reconstruction period. Blanche K. Bruce, an ex-slave, served a term in the U.S. Senate and was suggested as a possible v,ice- president candidate. Robert Smalls served in both houses of the Sol!th Carolina legislatures and was a United States Congressman for twelve years. This popular. lawmaker had achieved national fame during the war when he captured a Confederate ship, \The Planter,\ and delivered it over to the Union army. An Eton graduate of West Indian extraction named Robert Eliot delivered what some people • .I consider the most eloquent speech ever heard in the U.S. House of Representatives. Pinekney Stewart Pinchback was Louisiana~s Lieutenant Governor and served as acting Governor for a .time; he is undoubtedly the only man eve,r elected to both the U.S. Senate and the U.S. House of Representatives and denied his seat in both bodies. Other noted Negro figqres of this epoch included: Richard Cain, U.S. CQngressman from South Carolina and later bishop of the African Methodist Episcopal Church; John R. Lynch, elected three times to the federal Omgress by Mississippi voters; Jonathon J. Wright; a judge of the South Carolina Supreme Court; two U.S. ministers to Haiti and two to Liberia. Besides the national figures, there were hundreds of local leaders who rose to the occasion of Reconstruction. Many of them wete ex-slaves, but they here little resemblance to the foolish pawns of \carpetbaggers\ so common in racist stereotypes <ilf the post-war period. The laws passed by the \Black-and-tan\ state assemblies sought to uplift the freedman, but they also brought many poor whites their first taste of democratic rights. Hundreds of thousands of whites who had not been able to vote when planters ruled the South during the Reconstruction era. The new state constitutions were models of democracy. Negro legislators sponsored the first genuine public. education system in the South, and Black and white children whose parents could not read were able to go to schooL Freedmen were the first to admit that they needed education in order to · exercise their new rights in an informed and responsible manner. The struggle for learning began in the course of the war and gain~d momentum during Reconstruction. Help came first from northern 0 r y missionary and abQlitionist societies; more .than a thousand white teachers came south even before the national Freedman's Bureau. Wit'S founded. The \Yankee Schoolmarm\ faced secial o·stradsm, rough conditions, .and sometimes physical danger, but sire found· children \who love the school as white children love . a boliday,.\ and she eatned the devotion and· gratitUde of people to Whom the ·right to learn the alphabet was a precious liberty. The journals of these teachers are moving testimonials to the enthusiasm they found: they tell Of aged field workers struggling with · a grandchild's primer, of long treks to reach · a poorly~ equipped and crowded school- room, of jnpredible sacrifice for the sake of a son's ed.ucation. The desire for learning was at least partially satisfied. fhe cry for land, however, went unanswered. Thaddeus Stevens had first put the demand for \Forty Acres and a Mule'' before Congress, and it became a rallying cry for the Black freedman. Stevens understood that real freedom and dignity would only come with economic independence: a landless ex-slave was easy prey to the powerful planter Class. The right to vote was not enough,~ and even that right would be .imperiled until the freedman was granted a place of the land his slave ancestors had worked. In a few areas Negroes did acquire land and became efficient farmers, but these were exceptions. On the · crucial question of land, Ste,·ens unfortunately proved prophetic. The failure to provide an economic base for freedom left the ex-slave open to pressure and harassment and was a significant factor in his subsequent disfran- chisement. Main resource: Teacher's Guide for Afro-American History, New York State Department of Social Services. by Matilde J. Zimmerman, .pp. 45-47. : .. Dean Smith, We could still use those two dollars! Thank you for purchasing the typewrfter, Gloria; I . ·needed it desperately . ,14, ..-r 69 rv rrP fl Cft6 ~ ~ ~ .U.. Volunteers ~ from any sphere ARE NEEDED TO HELP 'WITH THE BLACK CABARET ANP THE SPANISH DINNER DURING THE BLACK- WEEKEND OF APRIL 23-25, 1976. YOUR SUPPORT IS A NECESSITY FOR TIDS B.S.A.-FUNCTION. CONTACT SADAMA HOMS, THE COORDINATOR, AT 6147 OR 372- 977'1., FOR FURTHER INFORMATION. ANY TYPE OF ASSISTANCE.WILL BE APPRECIATED, ESPECIALLY THE TECHNICAL ASPECTS AND COOKS; A WAITRESS AND WAITER COULD BE BENEFICIAL. HOW ABOUT SOME OF THAT \BLACK TALENT\ PERFORMING IN THE CABARET? -..~- It some comp de pat shoul us s1 v9icil comt: -depai At dowr One and 1 mom with an Som( one wher• •

PERSPECTIVE~ Wedne$dtly, Apri/7, 1976 ~---~----~~~--~----~~~~~~~~~~--------------~--~--------- PogeE M,ore Problems ~ith the Security Foree It seems that every year someone has some type of complai·nt about the security department at Union College, or should l say every day? Well, let us start the term off right by w;ncmg not on~, but two compl~ints about the \security\ -department at Union College. At the end of last term I came down With a very unusual cold. One day it scented to disappear; and then .reappear at the strangest moments~ .One morning I awoke with an .extrerne.ly high fever and an acute case of vomiting. Somehow I crawled upstairs to one of my friend's room, whereupon she immediately called the infirmary and. requested that fhey take out their file on me, and she also informed them that t would be down as soon as humanly possible. After making the call to the infirmary, she called securi~y and asked ·that they come to. Hickok as soon as, possible to transvort Marilyn Becton to the infirmary; they responded in the affirmative. Twenty minutes passed as 1 stood in the halls of Hickok wtetching with obvious pain and disgust and n() se.;:urity. My friend made a second call to se«;:urily requesting. for immediate. transportation. Fifteen minutes later they showed up, right on time M usual. But here is the 1ronic .parL At the time that the call came in to security, four of these dedicated, consci.entious, concerned. u,pholders of Union College doctrine were sitting at West College munching on coffee and rolls. They responded to the first call by saying that they would be ri~ht there, _and continued to munch on food that our parents work and slave to pay for. The second call came in and they responded in the same manner. How do I know these things? An extremely clc;~se friend of mine was eating breakfast at West College on that particular morning and overheard the calls ~ .,_._l by MARILYN V, BECTON on the walkie·talkie. Upon my arrival at the infirmary discovered that l had a severe case of the swine flu, 11nd that without immediate medical attention I could have awakened the next mot:ning shaking hands with St. Peter. But in this · instance, we aU know who the re;1i swines are! Complaint number two: Durin,g exam week of last term l was down at Webster studying psychology with a fellow classmate. If you will recall, during this particular time the entire eastern seaboard was entrenched with snow, and winds blowing at fifty miles an hour. It is a known policy of security to escort Union women to their dorms after dark. So, I make the call (at 4:00 a.m.) whereupon I am informed that the particular security guard on duty did not feel .like picking anyone up! I was under the mistaken impression thag this was part of his job. It was approximately this time last year, that the security department at Union College went through a major revamping program, and in my opinion, not a damn thing has changed. I wonder how the parents of Union College women would feel if they knew that their daughters receive hardly any protection from Union College's police force, or is it just the Black women on this campus? COGI, DOJNK, the man of many faen It .is good to know the propqsal to establish . a Race Relations Commission on campus has finally taken a step forward. I hope that this ~'flight,. of progress continues to grow. Debs, Take care of yourself, so, you can recover soon. Harlem Day The sun breaks over Harlem first Then, at. about six o'clock Its sleepy rays start downtown to work Riding the tinned rails of the dirty transit Leaving the new morning half awake Rubbing old southern nightmares From its eyes Morning scrubs the floors to noon . When faded flags on washlines Save the children hom:e for lunch Dishes, scarred from many meals are washed again And stored with old maps in high cupboards And shopping, the slow daily prayer For life, consumes the day Everting in Harlem starts late · When the cleaners of the city Recover their souls going home And the tired day-bidden laughter Breaking its unseen bonds of \yes. sir,\ \no. sir ... and 'fthank you. ma•am\ F!ies, free, into-a. world of music •••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• • • : Photographer Wm. A. Collins wiD be taking BS.A. class portraits : : for 1975·76. Everyone is asked to be dressed accordingly and arrive : • on time. • • • • • • • : THE FRESHMAN CLASS: SUNDAY, APRIL 11 AT 8:00PM : • THE SOPHOMORE CLASS:. SUNDAY, APR1Lll AT 9:30PM • : THE JUNIOR CLASS: MONDAY, APRIL 12 AT 3:00PM : : THE SENIOR CLASS: MONDAY, APRIL 12 AT 9:30PM : • All pictures will be taken in the first floor lounge. • • • • • , ..................................•.........•..• . ~

PageF Shake····~&. Bake AII·Star Basket'ball tourn\81Rent at· ,_J'·_.. .• . .' .. C. • .. -;11· ... ·•··. ,un•o·r·.·•· .. · o:. ege of Albany -:,-.r,...r.,., .. -.. \'',•' • f • • • ···,-·-~ ·: \ !... >i: . ·, Pe6.ple<e~eeywhere gather to-see the Wiz Sp.ilir~-Aif!g Hke a most precious jewel. 'Ev~)!Yp~~~hears and sees the Wiz . . . · ·T~l~IP.l.ir.b~J.it saving your $.~ulatutan ·the time we~ping. . : Bti,lli~ntly st~iding in pride ~nd prow~ss , ·. . . S@~(f:i~g·lllc.e a first-prize-~inner: • . _· ·The:Wiz,..g'rant$ the. linirnaginable ·Creates the unbelieveable and Pe~fonns before. your yery eyes(the what you thougbt was impossible). Master of Wizar.dry a•nd .accomplished artist of Wizarding He. parades in gloriousne'ss wh1le The cro~d reacts aesthetically · Rejoicing, fon?;et•titig,, celebrating, feeling, vibrating~ . Harmonizing, equaliz}ng and ;being .enchanted by The rever:bera:ting energies of'the Supreme Wizard ·The Wiz · · Emerald: city is \Vh¢Fe the Wiz reside;& and rules. • , .. · Come to the emeri:lld 'city and · · · · See thni rose~col'@r.e(f glasses . Your imagimitive· reaiity appears befor!! y~ur eyes. · See the hors~ of a different color · ~ · See what yo.(! thought to be extinct. come to life Before your very·eyes 'changes \fi_ll occur · Happiness beqomes omnipresent . . . Love bec~mes :a ;Jaw . · &.nd- \. ·. · · -·' _ ·. ~.. ·. · · People- wlio'yi>ti dat¢d·rtot speak to· .. ~·._. · .. •, .• ;. ' . I ·'· ' c·o.mes . . -. ·· . · .· .. ·· . · --· ·· ·- · · . :fotwar4.-~it,h ·eut:;Nretcl1ed w~t~9i111ng: af1ns. The· ,.E~e:t.a:r~<oit~;t~ ~4~t~, tJt~:w~dfesi<~es···· It's .. w9~i:·:Yo~:.;¢.16.titir:htiagine -~nd- me;)r~ . · ·: · . . . : .···-Jt's th~::w,o~ld,:· · ···· ~~.;P'!!lieyet~~lity· ' . · .. ·::.: · '' .· Wi~Kt~~li~~f.t .... , .)P~~·:: ·\ ' , .J·; '' \,: '::' .·::··:' . ··.. .. 11ie:Wi~:t:,d·s:w;qtt~tls:¢.very,~h-t-ng · · .. : ·.·. ·. · '. · . : \ ·: · 'Yo.ti c~~·im~gin¢}pfliey~:rbeli¢~ein.· · '·· .>: .. · .· · · · · · ·;, ·.· ne. wi~~-;d~& ~~~~~~-~~kes' -~oil -~elie.v~ ·· · ... · · · · · · · .. ·:· ·IIi yq.u:rsei(; ;~:,y.;shtdwh1i Y.oii tlie. power '! · -.:. · ·. · , . . . ... ·. of your. 1 ·!ilwh: b'eil~v~abitity. · . : · · -~ ' Sponsored by: Black Student Alliance Come See: Albany State, R.P .1., Sien&J, A.B.C., J.C.A., lJnion, H~V ~c~c., etc. Donation: st.OO ~General Admission$ · · Ros~-c0loi:eii'gJ';i$s.¢sJ!le.come your eyes . . Thougb ~li~Y'·ma~.:MY'er tie' on your face · Emerald Cityz .. i~.)uidha:t ·)Va;y: · . ·: - · _, It mak~s:yo~hhth~;~¢ality.-c:ould·rtever · . ' This spe9faculai:.'~ ~ :' ·. · But- p~oves to y_oti ~hatyouT reality is. F~mtasyy~U:say?.· ·· . Such .a· place ~d4ld. never exist? (;lose your eyes for just one moment ... En:tet your. Emerald City where the Wiz resides and rules DISCO: FOLW.WING ~1TURD1.r:.~·GAMES!!! · rnthe,Rain./•· , .. ._ _____________ ..__.....,i.o-~~;._.-.-..~..,_~------------' I see· cle~Hy 'from where I sit •Five~and-six.,people under one umbrella. Rusbing7\\· rushing to get out of the rain. A stray dog searches for food, A · a 1st-floor ledge, ·BIOGRAPH #3 she will be sleeping when. he returns at least 'her ;eye .. s \\\liJl tight he returns' to· her in e.arly mor:ping .-hou·r~' ~;f.ile:;f ... a, .·.' carousing aff-irms. there·· i~ still f.o~.-·hirn·\li: · · ·' · · · ·· '\' ..... · ......... heart that . he .. .t:tu~:n~~· :. t.o ·.when ai:l i.s .. :ii:o'jl.::!g~~~.!1~: . ..Lglt~'i'!''· ·'~lire····: :s· ~~~-t!' and he will not- aw~ken .her to a.pol·og~z;e ariel ·. and hope <s.he' -w:if(. l'~tu:rn the s~1pe ol~f ga.me· . he goes .away he re,l:;urns 'When he. 'thin~s. sn. e_;.~TI:\s- [;~li.-§l~J~~~~tP~·.Ji~l: she close~ tigh-t. 'as·' the wi~ te~, .. petals' ef, . ' Cbarl e 0 Ly!'•h . • . . . ' \~j'' : , . . ' , , }' ':',<,\;}' '\ .. : ... :' :'~ ~· : ;Y::\,!f~.-~-; ,· FREE SubsCripdous to Per~ive. For persons wis:bing Perspective· man~.d. to tb·ei:r- ·hom:~ or p·lace ef .· bu·siness. M:ail this, cUp;pin«. to·~ 1 · _·_ .. ·n· -.h .. _ . ·.;.. ··::·~·_·-.1~.- ~-·d··1'.. .. , · · · . lit ' o a . ose W4iO are• &\-!''.. , . M. ' ' ' G v· . 'C'h t '. . . . _' ·, widi,' inspired·. to~··. OF '$killed' ' . ISS · • · •. . · a man. · ... '!iffi any nt~Jary, j~t.~~~~~~ 9r;. · · , · · · · · . poetk ability, 'pleasec su .. m.lt· , Bo . ·x· . 02·74 your 4o.uble•-5pat-~Ci;,:, • · • · typewritten· articles to· · G~f: • . C . 11 · Chatman~ IJic~oJt • ~~iJi•lO'<.· Un1on o ege .. (•o~ .. ol74):·! by_ ·ntid9~~~~t ;1)~:·. • . __ · Aprd l8; 1976 •. Schenectady, N.Y. 12308· · Subscriber: .,NAME ______ ...........,__ ADDRESS_-. ____ _ City·State·Zip_· -------- 1101 ... 11110. A ~min care) · . ..• : . . ·•lr .wt1!1l}t.:~~.;~l)a_x. :f!·~:;~j~/?· . . ... . . .. ·~ '. l' :} ~~t*_j~\-~:~--~· ' .. ;,~~'¢io.ntin~rli'irictf:.: ;::::·:···/ ; : '(\~};;':; . ; • .. 0 ,-·;:~R¥: .~' . :·~·\ j, ·. •. ,~:;·:~.--.~- lfit·i(J'i~l~\WIJif~:>? :_ :~?!~, .. ~:\- ~·:~ ':.'·· );\i;:{;~ :.)'~!:<:,,::;; ' ..•. _; ancl·tl'lrOtle-Cti.il1!. the: graSS ' · · . \i - i h f. : .. \ i . • w t m 1ts . , .·: .. ... .. . . :The lo~e . , . . · . ' . · .scattered trees remaJn standing : 'lf~cha:~gr.!~· ~~c~A'f f~f, -t,~.~.rfwa.inin~ ·Jn~r~. of_ s~il!lPJ1S passed . The dn:ver ·ta:kes .. me dsng th~s loneso·m.e road . Jfe hfis.a de~d;;line f~i·make; rny attempt fo'let : ·bitn.~~t;Jw.~!ier~~~o;hurry js met wi(ll'o.bjecti9n · by ~lie otfi¢r p~:Sseng¢.rs.. ' \.: . . . l /· ~··· •• ' . • ' • . .~er~ lite~ 1 t ttia6y :to ~ake 1 this trfp s'(~ :1· ddn·i · · · · · , • ' ' ' 1\'0{Jjr:ii:l;q.tit, e*pl!l.iJlJ_n~· my tea~on !o'ribeing ·ori ·. , ·t'h' '·}flcA~'d ',, 't' ·, .. '< ,•' .. •' ' . , ';\ ' ·\ .: ·.:. ·.e . .\'.lh:l,< ctPJ):!; ·Uf_~:.;:. : . .-· · >.; · ... ' . , ' • · : : · : , ... -., . < -.: 1Jiey .. w~t!Jdfi;t:~,x~~.~t:$~ana:~m:Yempt~n~s!l1jnyway. . .. \ .:· li::Qrit¢mp1at-e rifY d~~tinirlit!ln · : ·. . '· ... · · ~- . : ·· WlJe:Q4:$h~Waiairi.s¢r't~Bi 1 on c0Id.oeMJC.rincrete: · · · , , .There 1 lt'l:ie ~: d:trte~enc~:~thl& time:-· . : if.:· ( •. : · · ·· - · . ·. . Alip~\te~:t(~~~is; Y,.eie· .ijt. ilnt{~ipat.io~ .(Jf ~~P,pyigre¢ti~gs ·. , · ·; ~o~;_ ~e~!Yti!f' will b'e:· o!,i'ni_~e~ w~~p ,sid'rtes.s.~n'Q.:paiitf1:fllone.Iiness ,: ·,J~.dye~dttbtslnR•. · .. · -.~ ':: · . - .. . . . ~ ' . ···. · . · · ~ I.:l(?ng:to·\WJi'Kf(rom thifawfulnigli-tma·re.; , · .. · .~rl;~:~g ~lt~'s;orn~o~e saying ' 1 Apr.il Fool\ ·. · Erithpg th.r.s Joke Of pbdt taste. ·aut, iri my mind: 1 kno:W it's no joke - It's real.. It's an inevitable. trip ~bat's been taken by other~. Now I must take that trip. . One hundred and twenty miles before reality becomes surrealistic, One one hundred and twenty miles before the dead cold concrete becomes alive, One hundred and twenty miles before my wake. The new love affair appears to be at an end. str YOi

The greatest lover in Hiekok There is · a legend in his own time /ivin.~pin Hick~k · 208 - restrazH that wzld . streak, please your jacket. I have • ' . l ~· i l' .. 't • ., !· \ ,· .l • ·PERSPECTIVE. ·wednesday, Aprl/7, 1976· ·· · 9n an African Sh«»re Niglk\ligbts'·anb'\npne hor heat As waves crumble at my feet, I st~tre down the one way street · of time ' How mahy times has history told of Almoravids fierce and bold of nations gloriously rich in gold Destined to die Somewhere on the dei;ert sand, Amidst remains of human hands, the bones of faces lay in strands Decayed long ago. But time, this shore has not changed Triflings of waves may alter, but still remain, traces of the golden age ruins of empires. Warriors of a distant day . •. Nomads, drifters, who left no ruins to decay. Sedimentary peoples whose records now relay Their dire .life and the price they had to ·pay to survive. Arid lands that these people knew Conquered. repeatedly by more than just a few Peopled .. by Nok, Berbers, Islamic peoples ansi Bantu · , . And hundreds more whose names in history are still due. Of Persian ships that saile<d the coastal sell And Barbary pirates who rav;~:ged and knew no pleas, We know so little of them, yoi.l and me, . Though real events and men they were · in history~ So l stride along the sand Thinking thoughts of Timbuktu and glorious Maliland, Of Munsa Musa's strong army nameless faces I cannot repeat As waves trespass my shoes, climbing to my feet . Page G Memories of Winter Term TO BELIEVE .. let us join with nature and kneel to accept the process with the pause the living with the dying all being being wholly whole so holy is the spirit givirig breath o1 life to universe, o union with d~nce with heaven,. ah earth residing devbted to man to G-d .. to believe •. Rev and Darry, why didn't I get those articles from you. -Kuumba CHEESE FILLED BEEF PATTIES Combine two pounds ground lean beef. I teaspoon salt, and li c. cold water. Form into 16 patties. Divide four ounces blue or Roquefort cheese into 8 portions; sandwich each between 2 patties and shaker bag . .(Shake and bake chicken seasoned coating ~mix). Shake one patty at a time in the ~ag until evenly coated. Place in ungreased shallow baking pan. Bake at 450 degrees for about 10 minutes for medium doneness. Makes ·s servings. Sadama N. Horns

1) \'''n\' Poge ff~ I • . 'Y' DAWN In the opaque bleakness of a tiring dawn, a taU boy stood looking across the horizon as though peering through a mirrored time. As he gazed across this vast and arid land, with its trees that barely rose from the ground, and leaves and scattered branches that had been parched by the sun His mind relinquished thoughts of present and drifted to yesterday His frleeing fathers pursued by foes, conquerors, came to this land to build their home again. He sighed as Nostalgia caught him in its arms, and Feturned him to the days in his ancient hmd; A land he had traversed as a beast would, for he knew every creek and crevice, every hill and valley, and the paths of running water. On desert fringes, adjoining the Golden Sahara, bordered in by tribes who had existed there for centuries The boy and his village stood. He recalled once seeing a beautiful sea l_,)\'Q. ~; . ~'*~ ··~\ ,\7'_-.~.J -,.:· +. ~. ··PERSPECTIVE, Wednesday, Apri/7, 19,76 a greenish blue water questi<med by the drifting sun But now he knew no sea, only meandering streams and rivers that shrunk with time. A great empire he then recalled enclosed by boundaries of massive walls A thriving life, full of riches, proud kings and noble lords. never ceasing to forget the worship of ancestors among men who knew no better lllen. Napata, your glory will one day be returned, to create the mirage that your founders earned, by sweat and toil, dead bodies, strife forces of evil crushed to yield new life Mirage like sand, you filtered through a listless hand; You once were and now are no more. And in his nostalgia, he could see the Kingdom of Kush reflected in that sea Kush, fertile valleys that his fathers knew The youth stood still, in quiet dawn Breast naked in the wind, eyes forlorn remembering warriors of Baja sect Driving his fathers to reject their land for another He saw too, as had seen his fathers vibrations of an existence that had been beyond the confines of himself A great nation in its glory· Destroyed by Egyptians, nomads and emerg_ing Axom. The marooned sun lifting itself to a horizon, crept across the bronze body of our youth frozen still, in retrospective melancholy, ' and returned to him the tiding of the· new day to hunt, fish, and gather soil for clay, So that his\ people might survive. Peace of Mind to Wild man just released from Attica \She said no!\ Out on The Beach The swiftness of the evening tide takes me by surprise. The sand gets tossled then laid gently back in place. The sun recedes into the horizon While evening gulls make waves above water. Sizzling - the sun takes its cyclic journey (once again) A halo appears and the sun's no longer in view. The tide comes again to shore. Rushing out to greet it I find myself immobile As if paralyzed. Watching from where I stand Seeing in the water reflections - Reflecting time and space in a Whirlpool of eternity Watching - I withdraw with the tide. Withdrawing far into darknes:,; Becoming draped within· this darkness Hope to return' to shore escapes me. If I return to shore again Just as the sun is suckled by the horizon Festivitie~ will take place all along the beach People will gather to greet me The tide and I will run along the beach in-and-out-and-in-and-out My soul will have been at rest And I will rejoice the coming of the light. ~ -~. Typical events Take me up Up ...... into your . world Prickle me with your Fineness and show Me How powerful your Sting really is, Enter me slowly Allowing me to Enjoy your sweet juices That have made many Happy-Sad. Watch me wallow In drunkeness you (?create within my mind) Bring to my sunshine days As you run through My Body The way only you can See how you leave me Desolute but happy For the experience you Give to me Notice how I wake From your haze unbeknowing of the Experience you gave me. Take me through your Hellish nightmare of Reality and leave Me cold - ready to Experience you again. Teach me how poisonous Your sting really is Even though you bring So much pleasure. Leave me somewhere Unknown to myself With no one to guide me Or give me another Taste of your bittersweet juice. Run through my body Until you have totally Submerged yourself Within me. Teach me by being yeur strong Poisonous sweet self that You're really no good for me. Take me ,.. .. ~ . up up up, • •· ·' r --~I '.-!• ·'J\~ti\: •. Opinl Wi1 great( devisf came five t two a eros: supp home my , blel)si \I he heart' of Ill ~ il qu~st bea1.i1 I'll .b from podh will fitne~ Btl Frid~ expel presi Dem To a any Uni( Bonr gove Ches the psy( Ber1 the few

'.· Page n· ·PERSPECTIVE, Wednesday, April 7, 1976 ------------~------------------~----------~------------------------------------------~~-------·---------------- DAWN In the opaque bleakness of a tiring dawn, a tall boy stood looking across the horizon as though peering through a mirrored time. As he gazed across this vast and arid land, with its trees that barely rose from the ground, and leaves and scattered branches that had been parched by the sun His mind relinquished thoughts of present and drifted to yesterday His fleeing fathers pursued by foes, conquerors, came to this land to build their home again. He sighed as Nostalgia caught him in its arms, and returned him to the days in his ancient land; A land he had traversed as a beast would, for he knew everv creek and crevice, everv hill and vallev, and the path~ of running water. - - On desert fringes, adjoining the Golden Sahara, bordered in by tribes who had existed there for centuries The boy and his village stood. He recalled once seeing a beautiful sea a greenish blue water questioned by the drifting sun But now he knew no sea, only meandering streams aRd rivers that shrunk with time. A great empire he then recalled enclosed by boundaries of massive walls A thriving life, full of riches, proud kings and noble lords. never ceasing to forget the worship of ancestors among men who knew no better men. \fapata, your glory will one day be returned, to create the mirage that your founders earned, by sweat and toil, dead bodies, strife forces of evil crushed to yield new life Mirage like sand, you filtered through a listless hand; You once were and now are no more. And in his nostalgia, he could see the Kingdom of Kush reflected in that sea Kush, fertile valleys that his fathers knew The youth stood still, in quiet dawn Breast naked in the wind, eyes forlorn remembering warriors of Baja sect Driving his fathers to reject their land for another He saw too, as had seen his fathers vibrations of an existeRce that had been beyond the confines of himself A great nation in its glory Destroyed by Egyptians, nomads and emerging Axom. The marooned sun lifting itself to a horizon, crept across the bronze body of our youth frozen still, in retrospective melancholy, and returned to him the tiding of the new day to hunt, fish, and gather soil for clay, So that his people might survive. Peace of Mind \' Wild man just released from Attica \She said no!\ Out on The Beach The ~wiftness of the evening tide takes me by surprise. !'he sand gets tossled then laid gently back in place. !'he sun recedes into the horizon While evening gulls make waves above water. Sizzling -- the sun takes its cyclic journey (once again) A halo appears and the sun's no longer in VIew. The tide comes again to shore. Rushing out to greet it I find myself immobilt: As if paralyzed. Watching from where I stand Seeing in the water reflections Reflecting time and space in a whirlpool of eternity Watching - I withdraw with the tide. Withdrawing far into darkness Becoming draped within this darkness Hope to return to shore escapes me. If I return to shore again Just as the sun is suckled by the horizon festivities will take place all along the beach People will gather to greet me !he tide and I will run along the beach in-and-out-and-in-and-out My soul will have been at rest And I will rejoice the coming of the light. e ._, Typieal 1 Poets at Work HYPODERMIC Take me up Up into your world Prickle me with your Fineness and show Me How powerful your Sting really is. Enter me slowly Allowing me to Enjoy your sweet juices That have made many Happy-Sad. Watch me wallow In drunkeness you ('?create within my mind) Bring to my sunshine days As you run through My Body lhc way only you can See how you leave me Dcsolute but happy For the experience you Give to me Notice how I wake From your haze unbeknowing of the Experience you gave me. fake me through your Hellish nightmare of Reality and leave Me cold -- ready to Experience you again. Teach me how poisonous Your sting really is Even though you bring So much pleasure. Leave me somewhere Unknown to myself With no one to guide me Or give me another Taste of your bittersweet JUICe. Run through my body Until you have totally Submerged yourself Within me. I each ffil' hy hcing yot:Jr strong Poi-;onou' <;Wl'CI <;elf that \'n(l're rl'ally no good for rnc. Jake me up up up · .. I I Opini Wit greate devise camel fiVe I two across supp< home< my v blessi1 \I ho heart'' of mJ - if 4uesti beaut I'll bt from podiu will Htnes: But Frida ex per presi Dem< To a any 1 Unio Bonn gover Chest l I the psyc Bert the l few me stud and 1 prof 0 the

. ~.- • unton college Vol. lOS, No. 18 Wednesd .. y, Apri114, 1976 • • one or tensts ': ,· ·\ Art historian Flexner lectures Wednesday Art histonan and author James Thomas Flexner will inaugurate the Walter C. Baker Lectureship in Arts and Civilization with an add~e.ss at Union College Wednesday, April 21. Flexner, who won the 1973 Na·· tiona! Book Award and a Pul- itzer Prize citation for his four• volume biography of George Washington, will speak at 8:30 p.m. in Memorial Chapel. Hi~ topic will be on the mid-19th century native school of ts credited with an important role in the recent revival of concern with eighteenth and nineteenth- century painting. He is the author of the three-volume history of American painting \First Flowers of Our Wilderness,\ ''The Light of Distant! Skies, .. and \That Wilder Image,\ which was awarded the Par.kman Prize in 1963. His \Pocket History of American Painting\ has been translated into more than 20 languages. Co. of New York soon a·fter his graduation l'rom Union College. He retired from the bank as a vice president in 1958. While Mr. Baker was chairman of the Union trustees, the college increased its endowment by $20 million, and built four new dormitories as well as making . a number -of other major additions to its physical plant. His personalgifts to the college . American painting. Mrs. Lois W. Baker, a life trustee of Union College, established the lectureship last fall in memory of her late husband, Walter C. Baker. Mrs. Baker, a graduate of Vassar College, was elected a trustee in 1972. included the renovation of Hale House in 1936, and .the creation of commons in which a · faculty residence was made in the South Colonnade. He also endowed a professorship, the Walter C. Baker Scholarship, and two additional scholarships which are named for his first wife, Mary I. Nott Memorial nears completion in .mid-19th century. For glimpse of building's impendi~Jg self-destruction, seepage 8. Admission is free to the public. Flexner has maintained a life- long interest in the history of American art, publishing ten books in the area. His most recent, \The Face of Liberty,\ was just published by Clarkson N. Potter, Inc. Representing 34 artists from the \golden age\ of American portraiture, the book is a tribute to the nation's founders and to the artists who portrayed ·them. Mr. Baker, a 1915 graduate of Union College, was a member of the Union College Board of Trustees for almost 40 years, from 1932 until his death at the age of 78 in 1971. He was chairman of the board of trustees for 22 years, from 1941 to 1963. Flexner, presi\ient of the Society of American· Historians, A native of Oneida, N.Y., Mr. Baker joined the Guaranty Trust Task Force studies Athletics' future by P.ROF- ELIZABETH men and women over the next ·:.MAN;SFJ.,ELD... .. , five years and the imp_lications of AND C.M, TRA \~~-111 such development for our Last month, President Bonner association with NESCAC formed a task force to study the ·scboo'ls. . . . . status of athletics at Union. . ~-. '!he adequacy of ex1stmg Collc:ge. Tbe decision came about facthtt~s for a spo~ts ~nd due to the interest and excitement recreational pro~ram mvolvmg displayed by nearly 2/3 of the the lar~est poss1bie number of students at Un.ion College, thos~ students. . . . . . involved in athletic activity of . 3, The leadership role m t_he some kind. developmen~ of women's athlet.•cs The Task force was formed to an~. re.;reattonal ~port~ to whtch assess the many new Umon has commtttedttselfunder developments affecting the Title IX regulations. athletic and sports programs on 4. .The scope of our total the campus. The Task Force will ~thlet1~ and sports program, attempt to move toward setting mcludmg the total number of athletic .: priorities and establishing plans for the future. It will function as a working body which will solicit opinion from all segments of the College c.ommunity .and make recommendations based on its findings. In setting the charge, the Pres~dent did stress that this study proceed under two initial constraints: first, that the College will not expand its present budget for athletics (except, perhaps, as and if necessary to· improve the women's program) and secondly, that the College will continue to .limit all scholarships solely to those demonstrating financial need. Any and all policy and budgetary recommendations, of course, will be taken to appropriate committees and to the College Senate for action. · The charges to the Task Force are to examine and propose objectives for: L The development of our intercollegiate sports pro~ram for Applications are av.alhible m Admissions Office for Gatesmen. The Gatesmen is the honorary group of students serving the Admissions Office by giving · campus toUrs to visiting Tragedy by LIZ PAVA last Monday night at 4:00 a.m., as a result of a dormitory fire at Skidmore, one student died; 22 were hospitalized, and 90 more were treated and .released. As recently as this Monday, the cause of the fire remained unknown, although the blaze apparently broke. out amidst, and was likely sorely aggravated ·by 1 garbage that had .gone un~::ollected for seve-ral days because of a strike by their Maintenance Department. While the tragedy is not to be exploited by Union jn its attempts_ to strengthen our own position with respect to fire prevention, last week's fire at Skidmore had the effect of awakening us all to question both what needs to be done and what can be done to ensure the safety of students and employees of the Co.llege. sports in which _t~!lrn,§ are to be ~ounted,, a~d \the budgetary impact. of such future development. • 5. The organizing, administration, and ·staffing of oUr athletic and sports programs at ·union College. The relationship Union College has with the other NESCAC schools is one marked with many complaints. Very few students of Union College even know Which schools make up NESCAC .. This is partially due to the policy NESCAC has for scheduling competitions. NESCAC makes no effort to require schools in NESCAC to compete with other member s~hools. This has resulted in Union playing only four other NESCAC schools in all sports but basketball. There are many restrictions on the scheduling of games and practice. According to Coach Bruce Allison, head of the Athletic Department, these restr.ictions hurt the advancement of intercollegiate athletics at Union. A restriction in effect right now limits the number of contests each team can be engaged in. This standing prevents expansion of existing . sc]l~qules ... P~st-season Condnuecl on Paae 9 illuminates fire reports submitted to the College by Security in the past few years have included requests for more and impro·ved lifesaving equipment in various buildings, Director of Security Cliff Wood admitted that \none Qf i:t was really done.\ However, while it may be that the fire at Skidmore was \necessary\ to impress upon Union the immediacy of the above problem, there are other problems with respect to our vulnerability to fires which. demand student awareness and cooperation. · Case Baker. Mr. Baker was awarded an honorary Doctl:>r of Laws degree on the 40th anniversary of his graduation in 1955. In addition to his work in behalf of Union, Mr. Baker was noted for his collection of master drawings and Greek, Etruscan and Roman art. With education and religion, the art world was one of the three avocational interests to which Mr. Baker devoted most of his time. He served in a variety of posts fo.r the Metropolitan Museum of Art, including vice president and treasurer. Furthermore, he was an advisor to the Fogg Museum of Art at Harvard and a fellow of the Pierpont Morgan Library. He was also a long time trustee and treasurer of the American Academy in Rome and was active in the Archeological Society of America. He was a trustee of the Cathedral of St. John the Divine. New York City and was a warden and treasurer of St. Thomas's Episcopal Church, also in New York. dangers In a meeting with the RA's Tuesday afternoon, Mr. Wood discussed, among other things, fire drills, and dangers associated ' with overloading cireuits, and the emptying and for the stealing of . Continued on Page l applicants and parents; Senior Gatesmen also assist the 1\d. Ofijce by interviewing applicants. Applications should be returned by Friday, April 16. Interviews will be held later in Spring. If you have any questions please contact Lisa Tietz at 372-0804 or Box 1751. . Just how safe are you, you ask'? lf you are in West, South, Potter, Raymond. the Arts or ;Psychology buildings, or some of the fraternities. you are probably less safe than if you are in other buildings on campus in the event of fire. Like WilmarUt Hall on Skidmore's new l;ampus w'here the fire occurred, the aforementioned Union College buildings are not equipped with heat and(or smoke detection systems~ Although Dorm power sockets overloaded with cooking utensils can lead to fires. ~------------~--~-

Page2 CONCORDIENSIS, Wedne~day, Apri/14, 19!6 The Clainhake conteth Come and Join Us at THE DUTCH HOLLOW BAR HOURS Last week's brief fling with spring was spoiled this weekend by cold weather. But when May 8th rolls around the heat wave should be right upon us. This is the date of Sigma Chi's 8th annual Spring Fever Clambake, an event which every upper classman knows better than to miss. Money from The Bake will be given to Sigma Chi's national project, The Wallace Village for Minimally Retarded Children ,in Broomfield, Colorado; and the Schenectady Day Care Center on Lafayette Street. Over the past seven years, this event has netted over $5000 in donations. Last year's money was raised with the help of 1.100 guests who consumed over 40 kegs of beer, 25,000 clams, 200 pounds of hot dogs, 500 pounds of potato salad, cole slaw and macaroni salad! Don't let the number of guests scare you away because the Clambake is held at the .spacious Girling Center (free bus transportation provided). WR UC will be there doing a remote broadcast, so you can eat and drink (and whatever else you like) to your favorite tunes. All of this takes place between 3:00 and 6:00 in the afternoon on May 8th. Don't stop then though because the band \Exitus and. the Pied Pipers\ will be rocking. the chapter house from 9-1 that night with plenty of music and beer. Tickets for this monstrosity of a party can be purchased at Sigma Chi. Prices are $3.50 during. the month of April, $4.00 after that, and $4.50 at t,he door. Don't miss this great day! Mon.·Thurs .......... 4:30-t:OO am Fri. & Sat .......... 4:30-2:00 am Sun .......... ll noon-11 .pm REMEMBER: Wednesd~y Nights are SPECIAL NIGHTS Each week a special drink only 75¢ · Sat.-Ciosed all afternoon; open at 5:00 for dinner. I I I 111111111~ 1111111 111111 ij 111 111illllllll I ~~~~~~~ ~ ]. ll Grand Opening DAVE'S King remembrance pla!!~ed In accordance with a recent action by the College Senate a committee has been appointed by President Bonner to consider ways in which the College might in the future annually observe the birthday of the Reverend Martin Luther King, Jr. As a first step, the committee is calling on the Union College community for suggestions. We welcome your recommendations for the kind of program you would like to see for Continued from Page :r fire extinguishers. Mr. Wood recognizes that a more serious approach to fire drill ·procedures is needed if they are to be valuable. The State Education Law demands that three fire drills be conducted each year in all of the dorms;. Union complies and runs one in each dorm every term. At the present time, however, they are often ignored by students who either I) are un~ware that the fire bell is anything more tha'n the consequence of a badly tossed frisbee, or 2) are told outright by the Security officer that it is only a drill and the dorm need not be evacuated. Unnecessary removal and/or expenditure of fire extinguishers are probably the most uncon'trollable . and' dangerous non-fire prevention acts committed on this campus. The C02 extinguishers are to be used in the event of electrical fires and not for the purpose of cooling beer. The water-filled extinguishers are to be used in the event of other types of fires and not as defense weapons in the course of a water fight. To replace and/or refill fire extinguishers is both a time consuming and costly business. In fact, while $1,200 was budgeted for this purpose, the cost has already exceeded $3,000 this year. Finally, as the residents of dorms which lack cooking facilities know best, oversized refrigerators and altogether· too much use of electrical appliances (i.e. note picture!) overload the circuits. Constantly blowing out fuses cause substantial damage and may one day result in fire. The local Fire Department which, in addition to Security checks, has inspected all campus buililings once a year will now be making such inspections every six months. In the aftermath of the Skidmore fire, it might behoove us all to take our existing Security and safety precautions more serio1,1sly and further awaken the College to the many security and safety inadequacies which are evident all across the campus. the College's first observance of Or. King's birthday in January, 1977. Your suggestions should be in w_riting and should be sigQed with your address included and sent as soon as possible to Martin Lichterman, chairman of the committee. Members of the committee include Mr. William A. Collins; Professor William J. Daniels, Ms. Lynn Gilmore •. Mr. Calvin G. Schmidt and Mr. Brian F. Tucker. NOTICE The Chi Psi Beer Rally will. take place on Wednesday, April . '21. Entries are due· to Bob Carey · at Chi Psi at 346-9829 by Monday April 19th. Four team members and a driver' are netessary along with. a $4.00 entry fee. a-· s'tore devoted. to ·the needs of the contemporary ·male and female~· featuring jeans, skirts, and · sportswear by L~vi, Fade_d Glory Cardin, HIS, and Wrpngler. 428 State St. Downtown Schenectady ( 4 doors east of the Squire Shop) Tues. and Thur. ti119:00 mastercharge 377-3061 · BANKAMERICARD l I II Ill llllijllltt 11111 11111 m~ltillll!lJ .\\ ~111 TO UN IO'J COLLEGE STIJDENTS BY PfROTC AT RENSSELAER POLYTECHNIC INSTITUTE Courses open to college men and women. No service obligation now. Full scholarship available during the last two years of the program; tuition, all fees, plus a $100a month tax-free allowance. AnAirForceofficercommissionwhenyou receiveyourbac~alaureate. And, you don't necessarily have to be enrolled at RENSSELAER POLYTECHNIC INSTITUTE TO ATTEND. Talk with the Air Force ROTC counselor. For more information, call or write to: PRa=ESSOO (f AEROSPACE STIJD lES JfROTC DETAC~tlOO 550 RPI., TROY NY J2181 TELEPHO'JE: 518- 27G-6236 Put it all together in Air Force ROTC.

h •. :r ~ ;C .. • CONCORDIEN,SJS. Wednesday 1 Apri/14, 1976 Fin·ancial aid • Increases by ALISON .JAMESON Everyone knows that Union's tuition is going up and many are· wondering if financial aid will be increasing along with it. The answer is yes, according to Mt. Maras, Union'::; F.inancial . Aid Officer. The direct scholarship budget will be 20% higher next year; that represents an increase from $843,000 to $1 ,043,000. Not only is .tuition going up, but aid from New York State's Tuition Assistance Plan,. TAP, is going down. Starting next year, there ·will be an automatic -reduct-ion of $200 for all Juniors and Seniors (next year's. Seniors are not affected, though), This is significant because almost half of I:Jnion students receive aid from New York State. Mr. Maras says . that the $200 difference will have to he shared between the students and the school. ....._ The situation faced by the financial aid .office is uncertain because of' t·he federal and state financing it receives. The office tries to estimi!te how much money it wi'il receive from these sources, but changes are always being made in the legislation which aftect the amount of aid available to students. Even though Union undertakes most of the financing :of scholarships for its students itself, the fluduations in government aid make planning difficult. · Union's policy is to award financial· aid on the basis of need. A prospective student who applies for aid must submit a Parent's Confidential Statement (the same is true of upperclass students). If the student is accepted by th~ Admissions Office, he or she is given i;l rating and his or her folder is sent to the financial aid office. If need has been demonstrated, the student is awarded a \package i.e. some combinMion of scholarship, loan, and/ or jo(). A student with a higher rating will be more likely to receive a greater part of the package! in direct .scholarship and .Jess in the form of a job or loan. The ratingsare determined by the .student's · credentials and the college's priorities for that year. Students Who continue to demonstmte need and who maintain a passing average are usually awarded aid in their upperclass years, although this is not guaranteed. If the aid is reduced, it is most often due to changes in the family's financial status, but occasionally it is due to the student's activities (e.g. bad grades when it is known that the student could do better). A student who does exceptionally well, on the other hand, may have his or her aid changed to a more . Continued on Page 9 Squatters nixed next year . . by NAOMI ROBBINS and SUSIE BRICKMAN . On Monday, April 12th, the Union Colleg·e Housing Committee reached a momentous decision on a subject wbich has long been . a topic of :critical debate. The <rommittee, composed of tfiree. voting students. one administrator (Debbie .K il.gus-Director of Housing) and a member of the Maintenance crew, decided to abolish squatters' rights and replace it in the spring of 1977 with a campus-wide lottery. On the basis of this decision, students may no longer lay claim to the same room year after year, thus putting to an end the \dynastic\ hoarding and finagling of the present 'housing system. Last Monday, the Housing Committee raised the issue of· squatters' rights at an open meeting. The meeting was announced by notices posted in the dorms and the Committee also sent invitations to l 00 randomly selected students. The desirability of sq1,1atters' rights was then presented for discussion to the 4;0 students who attenped. Althau~l:l the majority of students present seemed adverse to any change, the Housing Committee fe'lt the turnout did not sulliciently represent student sentiments. Due to this meager response, the Committee consequently voted in accordance with their own assessment of the situation. As the Committee sees it, the system, as it now stands, is highly discriminatory - in that the most desirable rooms are monopolized by a lucky few. The new policy is thus designed to eliminate this inequality and \equalize housing.\ Although the decision has yet to be passed by the· Senate, the Housing Committee has no doubts that the measure will be approved. New option plan adopt~ed Saga Foods has announced new policies concerning option . meal plans. Gary l:lipp, director of the food service, explained .the change by saying that Saga has experienced .rising financial losses due to a large extent to student mis-use of option · cards. According to Hipp, the forWa}·d and backward use of meal weeks was too difficult to control. Under the new system, students will be prohibited from going· backward or forward in meal weeks. In other words, the ten, fourteen or twenty boxes on a meal card are valid only during one week. The meal we·eks will run from Frida:Y mo~ning to Thursday night. J n a .letter to students Saga stated its new policy as follows; General You must bring your meal ticket every meal for ease and conveJ;Jience to you. If you forget your meal ticket, you will not be allowed to ente.r unless you pay the guest line price for the meal. You will receive a receipt and will be reimbursed in full upon . presentation of your meal ticket. You have one week to claim reitn b u rsement. Transferring Meal Tickets your meal ticket is non- transferable and should not be left where others can use it. If confiscated a $l0.00 fee will. be charged. Loss of Ticket If your ID and Meal Ticket is lost, the following procedure should be applied to save you \time and effort. I. Obtain a temporary ID from the Dean of Students Office. 2. Bring the temporary I D to the Food Service Office in West College. 3. A fee of $3.00 will be charged for replacement. Guest Meals You~wiU notice four (4) shaded squares designated \A B, C, D\ at the bottom of your meal ticket. These squares allow you.to bring four guests per term to West. They are valid only at West and are nat valid on steak night. If rou .wish to bring guests to Hale Hottse or the Rathskellar on an option ticket, you may use the regular numbered squares in that week. The value of each squ~re is $1.25. Fraudulent Defaced Tickets Any ticket confiscated for reasons of fraud will be turned. over to the Dean of Students. · Use of Option Tickets Last term option tickets were allowed to be used forward and backwards. The implementation of this experimental policy proved extremely cosHy and difficult to control. The week begins Friday A.M. and ends Thursday P.M Satwday night Rathskeller crowd ponders newly restricted option plan. Dorm residents pry reluctant .squatter from occupied room. New housing plan debated by SUE LElN After a thorough investigation of the college · room-selection procedure, the Committee on Housing has passed the following resolution: \That there be instituted a Collegewide lottery, preferential by class, to take effect with the Spring 1977 lottery, and not to be re-evaluated by the Housing Committee until after it has been in effect for. one year (i.e. Spring 1978) when it can be duly evaluated and judged.\ · The effect of this is as outiined below: I) The room-select ion procedure for this Spring will be essentially the same as in past years. Squatters' rights will be in effect; others will draw by number according to class, for the remaining rooms. 2) In · the Spring of 1977 everyone who will be living on campus will go into an open lottery. All rooms on campus will be available. Everyone will draw a number and choose by class. 3) During the year 1978-1979 the 'hew system will be evaluated and the two systems compared so that a long-term recommendation can be made by the Housing Coniiilittee that year. This compromise proposal was worked out by the committee after long consideration of: the pr.os and cons of the present Continued on Page 9 trhere IS a differen~eltl •MCA'I •LSAT •DAT~ •GMAT •CPAT •VAT •GRE •OCAT •SAT ' Over 38 years of experience and success. Small classes. Voluminous home study materials. Courses that are constantly updated. Centers open days and weekends all year. Complete tape facilities for review···· of class lessons and for use of supplementary materials. Make-ups for missed lessons at our centers. • NATIONAL MEDICAL & DENTAL BOARDS • ECFMG • FLEX Flexible Programs and Hours BROOKLYN: 212-336-5300 ~-H.~ MANHATTAN: 212- 683-5005 .,.. N LONG ISLAND 516-538-4555 ... Or writ~ to: 1675 E. 16th Street I!DUCAl1CN&l a.m• <TD Brooklyn, N.Y. n 229 sPl~~LI~~~P:n.Al~ 0 1 ~ 38 · Call Toll Free (outside N.Y. State) 800-221-9840 J ,.. ____ For Aff.illated Centers in Major U.S. Cities•••••-•

• '!-. . ' - • I • • '.' \ .. \ J .. CONCORtliENsis, ·Wedne;dpy, Aprill4, 1976 Page4 arts Union hosts choral convention lhe Intercollegiate Musical Council, a nationwide urganitation ot male choral groups, has announced that its 1976 national seminar will be held at Union College on the I irst weekend m May. I he event will bring to Union the very best 'in choral music for men'S voices. !he lMC was founded in 1913 by a Harvard graduate named Albert Pickernall. In its early years, the I M C emphasized choral contests; the largest of which occurred in 1931. At that contest, 6 7 glee clubs from across the country competed in Carnegie Hall. The records from that contest identify Union College as one of the five regional winners. During the war and after, the IMC was unable to continue these programs. lhe organization was revived in the early fifties and the emphasis was shifted away from competition towards education and discussion. The first national seminar of the revitalized I M C was held at Purdue in 1954. Since then, the group has continued to grow. It now represents over 90 colleges across the nation, with 3000 undergraduate singe·rs as members. Like the lMC, the Union College Glee Club, host for the event. has had an up and down history. lhe glee club declined alter its prit.e-winning efl.orts at Carnegie Hall m I 931'. 1 his decline was halted iA l%3 with the arrival ot Hugh Allen Wilson as director. Wilson. a graduate ol Yale. immediately trimmed the size of the club. which at the time had reached 100 members. In the ensuing, twelve years the club has earned a reputation as one of the outstanding male choral groups on the East Coast. Recent .performances in New York, Boston and Washington have added to that reputation. Over fifty colleges . and uni.versitics will send delegates to the seminar, and several Eastern colleges will bring their entire glee clubs. The weekend event is centered on choral music for men's voices. The first of several\ concerts to be given will feature the hosting Union College Glee Club together with the Columbus Boys' Choir. This program, scheduled for Friday night, May 7, will include Faure's Requiem and the M issa Sancti Nicolai by Haydn. This is a repeat performance of a concert given by these same two groups in the fall of 1974. On Saturday morning, New York Metropol.itan Opera personality Horis lioldovsky will pre~ent a lecture entitled \!he Operatic Repertoire for Mate Chorus.\ in Memorial Chapel. Mr. (joJdovsky is a well-known commentator and champion of the opera. In his years as master ol ceremonies of the Met's Sunday afternoon broadcasts, he has done much to bring a greater appreciation .of opera to the American public. His lecture will begin at 9:30. The highlight of the weekend will undoubtedly be a public performance slated for Saturday night entitled \Men in Song.\ For this concert, the Glee Clubs of Union College, Amherst College, and Penn State will combine to perform scenes from Rossini's \Seige of Corinth\ and Rimsky- KorsakoJfs \Sadko.\ Over 200 male voices will he heard that evening in Achilles Rink. It promises to be one of the most memorable concerts ever performed in the Capital District. \Men in Song\ will begin at 8:00 p.m., Saturday, May 8. ~The Lady' alights A highlight \bi Parent's Weekend at the end of this month will be the production by the Union College Mountebanks of Christopher Fry's The Lady's Not For Burning. The show will run for four performances, Friday, April 30 at 8:00 p.m., a Saturday matinee at 2:00 p.m., and twice on Sunday at 2:00 and 8:00 p.m. in the Nott MemoriaL by MARSHALL WISOFF The Lady's Not For Burning, though written in 1945, is a broad satire of the Elizabethian style. The script is rich in anachronisms and pomposity, with a heavy side order of Fry•s evel\\ present wit. After watching a few of the preliminary rehearsals it became obvious that this play is a frolicking affair, which Mom and Dad would enjoy along with their more sophisticated children. The interior of the N ott Come & Join Us At The Dutch Hollow Friday, April 30th and Saturday, May 1st for Memorial is being altered once again for this production, though not as drastically as for last term's production of The Tempest. Designer Phillip Holbrook has brought the playing area back out in front of the bleachered seating area. The set crew is busy simulating the interior of Mayor Hebble Tyson's one room office, complete with Gothic arched windows and stylized furniture. Director Lee Bloomrosen is engaged here in his second directorial endeavor; ,last spring . he produced a one-act-play by Thorton Wilder, \Childhood in the Cabaret. Lee, who graduated last term, has performed in several Mountebanks productions including leading roles in Tartuffe, As You Like It, Our Town and The Tempost. . Join Ken LOGGINS and Jim MESSINA for a night of music, gooc/ music, and more good music, on ,Thursday, May 131 Tickets wilt be available soon at Student Activities. Presented by the Social Committee. Monet: A new perspective- important in Monet's works. In his opinion the artist's use of by DIANE NELSON color and light is directly related On Friday, April 9th, art to his choice of subject matter. historian and critic Dr. Robert L. Monet, I ike many Herbert spoke in front of a Union impressionists, is known for his College audience. The lecture, pretty, \never never land\ · entitled \The · Paintings of landscape pajntings. But as Dr. Monet,\ was part· of the Jaffe Herbert emphasized, Monet did Arts Lecture Series. not paint on1y pleasure sites. Dr. Herbert is presently a Some of Monet's works also dealt professor of art history at Yale with harsh pictures of industrial Univc'hity. He has organized life. Dr. Herbert made the point numerous exhibitions, is the that Monet did not wish only to author of nine books, as well as show the plellsurable side of life. tv.:e~~y articles <;>n art history and He wished to capture differing cnticlsm. ·sides of modern life. Dr. Herbert's lecture dealt with Monet was born in 1840 in his revolutionary ideas on the Paris, but was raised in the works of impressionist painter, french province of. Normandy. Claude Monet. Most people in Many of his paintings deal with a viewing Monet's works have been specific town in Normandy <;ailed awed by the fine use of color and Etretat. Dr. Herbert showed light in the artist's landscapes. numerous slides of the artist's However, Dr. Herbert feels that paintings of sites in Etretat. Many subject matter is also very of· the works portrayed vivid emotions; such as one of fishing boats .by the sea that dealt With loneliness. PARENT'S WEEKEND Dinner Served at: 4:00p.m./ 5:30 p.m./7:00p.m. Tickets will become available ' · weekdays from 1-5 p.m:, beginning April 21. Tickets are Art viewers do fiQt usually balk . Continued on Page 9 We are doing a Play: ''The Ladfs Not for Burning\ by Christopher Fry. YOU can be \we\ too! 50~ for Union Students with l.D. Reservations must be made by this Friday, April 16th. and $2.00 for general admission, including parents. Tickets may be purchased at the Nott Memorial Theatre Box Office or reserved by phone at 370-6 I 53. Check at the pub for more information. &rt'{trfut'/ ~;;:;;;:::;~ HELP! WR UC has acquired numerous logos over the years. We desperately need a top rate permanent logo that could be used on stationery, business cards, etc. If you'd like to develop some ideas, please stop in at the WRUC studio lounge at ·1:30., Thursday, April 12 or contact Judy Silverberg at 370-65.12 Robert Herbert The Union.College Film Committee Presents A STAR IS BORN Tues. April 20 7, 9, 11 Help is needed for set construction. Phil Hoi-· brook is toil.ng away weekday mornings, and he would be grateful for assistance from any interested students. If you know anything ab~ut carpentry, painting, or even if you don't, please come by the Nott Memorial and lend a hand any weekday morning you may have. free. Sight Point Institute · · is a summer community of scholars for outstanding students interested in lit· erature, psycholog-y, and philosophy. The instructional . system, like that at Oxford, is based on intensive tutorials. Excel.lent recreational oppor- · tunlties are provided by a rural setting on the coast of Nova Scotia. For information, write to Sight Point Institute, 36~ 60th Street, Oakland, CA 94618. . • . I p. SJ w w C{ G Sl 01 ai k Cl oJ a

CONCORDIENSIS, Wednesday, Apri/14,1976 Page5 -- ~ j • ' ' • .... ' ' • arts Dick Gregory: Laughter and tears On Monday, April 19th at 8:00 p,m. in Memorial Chapel, the Speaker''s Forum, in conjunction with the ~lac~ Student Alliance, will present Dick Gregory, famed comedian and social activist Mr. Gregory rose to fame in the sixties with his satiric hurnor and outspoken fight for civ.il rights and against poverty. His best- known novel, Nigg~r, was critically acclaimed as a depiction of black life in America. Recently, Mr. Gregory has been a champion of the starving in America. He has staged . several hunger strikes to highlight their plight On Wednesday, April 21st (two days after his lecture at the Chapel), Mr. Gregory will engage in a nationwide \Run for Hunger\ to dramatize the starvation in America. Mr. Gregory is one of the m0st widely sought-after speakers on the coHe~e lecture circuit, and prom1ses to be a dynamic lecturer; pointedly humorous, yet pursuing a serious theme. Admission is twenty-five cents for students; seventy-five cents for all others. On May 5th, the Speakers Forum will present Stan Lee, editor of Ma,rvel Comics and creator of the Hulk, Spiderman, Captain America, aRd other heroes. Five years of U n~on prints by SU~ FINKELSTEIN Although limited in size, the Relief Printmaking Exhibition at the N ott Memorial last week proved to be an impressive salute to the .Arts at Union College. The coUection, shown from April 5- 10, culminated five years' worth of wood cuts and linoleum prints done by Union students. The prints, 42 in aU, included a variety of portraits, landscapes, and nature scenes. The effect of many of the prints seemed dependent on both the texture of the paper' on which ,it was pressed, and the ability of the artist to control, and \W:len told I had cancer of the larynx., my reaction was: what good is a lawyer without a voice?\ Frank Purcell, Attorney '''That was nine years ago. In less than two months after the operation, I was back at work and talking. Today, I do everything I did before. Even try cases in court. \All of this is thanks t.o early detection, effective· treatment made possible through advances in cancer. research, and an over- . powering will to talk again. Not to mention the extremely benefi- cial voice training pro- gram which is offered by the American Cancer Society. \''ve won my battle. But the battle against cancer still goes on. f>lease. have regular checkups. And give to the American Cancer Society. We want to w i p e ou t c a n c e r i n your lifetime:· American I Cancer Society'- IHIS SPA([ CONTR18UTW BY :HE PUBliSh[R ' different degr-ees for its design, and demands a great deal of concentration in its viewing. at times coRquer, the Hatural pattern or grain of the medium. The result of such competitioN is often a scratchy one. The patterns are often htghly linear, yet many of the artists took advantage of this by working the lines into their pattern (as in Lynn Sutton's \Child and Dawn Walworth's \Mist\). These \predestined guidelines\ added to many of the prints. There is almost a cartoonist's approach introduced in Sarah Mink's \Keyhole #47;\ again, the grain of the wood becomes important in creating dimension and movemeat in the background water. And Pat Bohen has tried her hand at an abstract type of pointalism in \Nude Study.\ \The Bionic Portrait\ by Dave Mulligan created a face out of lines and spaces, highly reminiscent of a computer card, and a truly haunting effect is exuded by the misplaced facial features on an attractive head in Fern Galperin's \Sincerity.\ Dick Gregory, social activist and comedian, will speak on Apri/19 at 8p.m. in Memorial Chapel. Yet many of the works managed a smooth, silky effect in portions of the design, as though printed on material. Shiny spots on an all-black field helped t0 create such- an illusion; many artists managed to assert their wills over the wood's design and created solid black areas in theit prints as well, such as in Ray Faught's. \Self-Portrait 3,\ and Carol Hills' ··untitled.\ Sing together! by CAROL VENEZIA A few brave artists experimented with color in their works: a woman's hair becomes a mountainside in June Eiseman's ••Landscape With Nudes;\ mushrooms come to resemble RUssian Orthodox c.upolas in Diane Smith's \Russian Mushrooms and Onions;\ and Barbara Finger's \Self Portrait\ managed to achieve absolute white areas in the creation .of a woman's face. A few prints. stood out as exceptional amon.g those displayed in the exhibit. \Androgynes by Dawn Walworth, is a beautiful piece, her face coming to life in the · grain of the wood. Alan Gnessin's \lma•ginary Landscape\ is optically confusing in that it superimposes the same face at Yet the most impressive, and certainly the largest work in the exhibition, was the collaborated effort put into recreating the Nott Memorial. The 3' x 5' print was done in sections by multiple artists working irtdepdently, and the variety of backgrounds and interpretations of the same building both contrast and complement' the work. Amazingly enough, it all came together as a beautiful reproduction and tribute to Union's infamous landmark, as does the entire exhibit at the N ott extol the talents .of five years' worth of printmaking at Union. Summer Round Trip! NY to London; $265. Must reserve 65 days in advance; Call toll free (800) 252- 6327. Nova Charter Corp., Ithaca, NY. \Sing Together!\ the opening line to a choral piece sung at a recent concert by the Union College Women's Glee Club succinctly sums up the numerous activities of this hardworking and enthusiastic organization. Strains of harmony can be heard coming from room 104 in the Arts Building any Monday or Wednesday night as the members diligently put in their weekly hours of practice. The club was conceived in 1973 through the guidance of Pat Decker, a local artist. Three years later the glee club, directed by Mr. Robert Christensen - the choral director of Niskayuna High School, has more than doubled its membership to about thirty-five. The women sing wide variety of pieces ranging from such classics as Gloria by Antonio Vivaldi to such modern works as Good Morning Starshine from the rock musical Hair. After a rather low kev first vear. the glee club eabaret THURSDAY APRIL 15, 1976 SHOWS at 9:00 and 11:00 PM Tickets on sale in Carnegie at 8:00 PM This week Cabaret presents a troupe of mimes performing several very funny scenarios. held its first joint concert with anot!'ler school when it sang with the RPI Glee Club last year. This year the club has presented a number of well attended concerts. The Fall term concert was the first major production in which the men and women's glee club have ever sung together. This is hoped to become an annual event. The glee club also sang at the Thanksgiving service in Memorial Chapel. The concert for the winter semester was held in March. At the beginning of this term the club sang a number of light and cheerful pieces for the patients of nearby Sunnyside Rehabilitation Center. There are still several concerts the glee club has yet to perform this year. During Parents Weekend the club will sing a concert of light numbers in the Arts Building at 2:00 p.m. on Saturday, the first of May. The chorus will perform at the Inter-Collegiate Music Concert on May eighth at 3:30 in :\1t:morial Chapel. ·1 he I MC IS a national organization of men's glee clubs which is being hosted by the Union College men's glee club this year. The women's concert will be just one of a number of events held .during the weekend. The women's glee club hopes to gain acknowledgement from other men's groups and encourage them to sing with Union's club. A concert will be presented at Continued on Page 11 - Union College Film Committee presents The ·Apprenticeship ofDoddy Kravitz April 16-18 Friday, 10 Sat. 7, 9:15, 11:30

Page6 squat no more . The recent decision by the Housing Committee to phase out squatters rights is one long overdue. The debate surrounding this housing procedure has gone on for years, and each year student protests allow the continuance of the status quo. But squatters rights do make certain rooms- as hard to · obtain as the family jewels. They make certain floors as closed to an 'outsider' as a restricted country club. While the argument is often made that students should have the right to live in his '&own\ room for as long as he wants, the harmful effects of floor dominance by ~ certain group are too often the. product of this ethic. Hopefully this move by the College will serve to cerate a situation where a broader cross section of students will be living on each floor ~f each dormitory. a welcome respite With the long-awaited opening of the Pub finally passed, Union students find themselves faced with an unusual, hut welcome, alternative to typical . food service fare. The Dutch Hollow has, in two short weeks, drawn a large clientele ot students and · taculty into its relaxed and informal eating environment. The Hollow is apparently fulfilling a long buried desire in the Union commti!lity for taking guests to a place on campus without the obligatory apology. The Pub will probably have some positive effects outside, its doors .. Jts growing popularity ·will force the food service to improve its quality and compete, or go out of business. The Pub also seems to be the final link in the chain which has transfnrmed Carnegie Hall from the deserted hulk of three years ago to the thriving Student Center of today. Inside again, the Pub also will provide a place for exhausted ·newspaper editors to ~a.sh ~way their post-printeri aches. Congratulations are in line to all those students who gave up their matriculation fees to fimince part of the Pub; to the Board of Trustees for their realization of the need for such a facility; and to Angelo Mazzone, Craig Carlson and staff for creating the place from scratch. Our aesthetic eyes and, more importantly, our stomachs thank you! quit playing around Been to the game room lately? If you have you would find - Oh, by the way the game room is on the third floor of Carnegie. You would find a dilapidated pinball machine, a relic which had its heyday in the Rathskeller a few years ago. You would also find two pool tables, one of which is lacking a cue ball; and a billiard table, which has no balls at all. Outside of the game room proper are two ping-pong tables, one of which has no net. And that my dear friends is what Union College terms a game room. Granted, the idea of a game room is an excellent· one, but is this the best the College can offer as far as indoor recreation goes. As it stands now the game room is a joke. More townies corne up and try to take advantage of the facility than Union students. Is this because of the poor facilities or are people just unaware that the game room exists? Probably it is a combination of the two. If the College is going to offer the game room as a source of indoor recreation then make that offering an acceptable one; if not, then close it down and save Opeople the trouble of going to the thi~d floor of Carnegie for nothing. Even though he may halle the intelligence of a fly, the average shepherd now has the best chance at grad school admissions. Bah bclh grad sheep by JACK PITNEY Last Friday, the All-College Senate · passed a resolution banning sheep from the classrooms. Law School applicant, too poor to afford live sheep,.. bought three dozen carcasses nom a local farmer. He then stuffed them with old issues. of Concordy and piped pre-recorded she~p noises ·into their mouths. The Chicago sheep inspector caught on to the ruse. .. It's the oldest trick, in the boot(,\ he said. . By the beginning of spring term, the junio.rs were accumulating flocks in pre- paration for the admissions process. According to Student Forum Vice President Matt Brief, the situation became intolerable. ''You couldn't walk two feet without getting bitten by some damn sheep,\ he said, exposing a set .of teethmarks on his left knee. Suc!l difficulties were the direct cause of la:st week's Senate resolution. Dean Smith stated that the. resolution does not go far enough. ..we: ,have to get the graduate and prof~ssional s~h!Jols to change the1r 'admtsstons aminal' to something a little less obtrusive ~ like the ginko lizard,\ he said. The resolution was the culmination of a chain of events that began last spring at the annual confetence of the Association of Graduate and Professional School Admissions Directors. Noting that grade inflation had rendered academic ·performance useless as a criterion for evaluating students, the delegate~ decided that admissiops decisions would henceforth· be~\\\\ ___________ ......_ ______ ___.. __ _.___,._., made according to the number of sheep owned by the applicants. FROM: Craig Carlson, Chairman Mrs. Matra's office and are free. Stephen Daedalus, president of Parents Weekend Committee Your parents have received a the association, explained that This year Pareots Weekend will .schedule· of. events and we hi>pe several sociological studies had be held on April 30, May l and 2. that you ~lll en~ourage them to shown a high correlation between It promises to be an exciting attend tht~ spectal weeken4. If sheep possession and intelligence. weekend featuring a concert and there are any furthe! questiOns, In the fall, Union seniors dance by the great Benny please contact Crat~ Carlson, applying to postgraduate · Goodman and his Sextet. Tickets ( 37 0-6112) or LC)rrame Marra institutions found themselves at a for this event may he picked up in ( 370 - 6 llB). distinct disadvantage. As one disgruntled student put it: \Hell there just aren't any sheep in Nassau County.\ The seniors soon remedied the situation, however. Traveling in truc.:ks and buses, they scoured the Northeast for wholesale sheep dealers. One enterprising pre-med . managed to buy 450 heQ.d; he was immediately accepted at Harvard. There were, of course, scattered incidents of cheating. A Chicago WEEKEND COSt'S Benny Goodman Concert Drinks at Concert Drinks at Cocktail party Breakfast & Brunch Saturday picnic lunch Saturday lunch Play (The Lady's not for Burning) Cabaret Movie (A Touch of Class) FREE $1.00 - $1.00 at cost $1.50 per person at cost $ .50 students $2.<)0 parents $l.OO per person $1.00 per person - I' Uni wh< tho: ( we1 edt enl de< ket Ha col to do1 001 eW ste po t:ht th€ pre lef ·be1 ab n ha tw AI Sc ha OV p .( j I

Page6 squat no more The recent decision by the Housing Committee to phase out squatters rights is one long overdue. The debate surrounding this housing procedure has gone on for years, and each year student protests allow the continuance of the status quo. But squatters rights do make certain rooms as hard to obtain as the family jewels. They make certain floors as closed to an 'outsider' a:s a restricted country club. While the argument is often made that students should have the right to live in his \own\ room for as long as he wants, the harmful effects of floor dominance by a certain group are too often the product of this ethic. Hopefully th.is move by the College will serve to cerate a situation where a broader cross section of students will be living on each floor of each dormitory. a welcome respite With the long-awaited opening of the Pub finally passed, Union students find themselves faced with an unusual, but welcome, alternative to typical food service fare. The Dutch Hollow has, in two short weeks, drawn a large clientele ot students and taculty into its relaxed and informal eating environment. The Hollow is apparently fulfilling a long buried desire in the Union community for taking guests to a place on campus without the obligatory apology. The Pub will probably have some positive effects outside its doors. Its growing popularity will force the food service to improve its quality and compete, or go out of business. The Pub also seems to be the final link in the chain which has transformed Carnegie Hall from the deserted hulk of three years ago to the thriving Student Center of today. Inside again, the Pub also will provide a place for exhausted newspaper editors to wash away their post-printer' aches. Congratulations are in line to all those students who gave up their matriculation fees to finance part of the Pub; to the Board of Trustees for their realization of the need for such a facility; and to Angelo Mazzone, Craig Carlson and staff for creating the place from scratch. Our aesthetic eyes and, more importantly, our stomachs thank you! quit playing around Been to the game room lately? If you have you would find - Oh, by the way the game room is on the third floor of Carnegie. You would find a dilapidated pinball machine, a relic which had its heyday in the Rathskeller a few years ago. You would also find two pool tables, one of which is lacking a cue ball; and a billiard table, which has no balls at all. Outside of the game room proper are two ping-pong tables, one of which has no net. And that my dear friends is what Union College terms a game room. Granted, the idea of a game room is an excellent one, but is this the best the College can offer as far as indoor recreation goes. As it stands now the game room is a joke. More townies come up and try to take advantage of the facility than Union students. Is this because of the poor facilities or are people just unaware that the game room exists? Probably it is a combination of the two. If the College is going to offer the game room as a source of indoor recreation then make that offering an acceptable one; if not, then close it down and save Opeople the trouble of going to the third floor of Carnegie for nothing. Even though he may have the intelligence of a fly, the average shepherd now has the best chance at grad school admissions. Bah bcih grad sheep by JACK PITNEY Last Friday, the All-College Senate passed a resolution banning sheep from the classrooms. The resolution was the culmination of a chain of events that began last spring at the annual conference of the Association of Graduate and Professional School Admissions Directors. Noting that grade inflation had rendered academic performance useless as a criterion for evaluating students, the delegates decided that admissions Law School applicant, too poor to afford live sheep, bought three dozen carcasses from a local farmer. He then stuffed them with old issues of Concordy and piped pre-recorded sheep noises into their mouths. The Chicago sheep inspector caught on to the ruse. \It's the oldest trick, in the book,\ he said. By the beginning of spring term, the juniors were accumulating flocks in pre- paration for the admissions process. According to Student Forum Vice President Matt Brief, the situation became intolerable. \You couldn't walk two feet without getting bitten by some damn sheep,\ he said, exposing a set of teethmarks on his left knee. Such difficulties were the direct cause of last week's Senate resolution. Dean Smith stated that the resolution does not go far enough. \We .have to get the graduate and prof~ssional s~h!Jols to change thetr 'adm1sswns aminal' to something a little less obtrusive - like the ginko lizard,\ he said. decisions would henceforth· be r------~-------------------, made according to the number of sheep owned by the applicants. Stephen Daedalus, president of the association, explained that several sociological studies had shown a high correlation between sheep possession and intelligence. In the fall, Union seniors applying to postgraduate institutions found themselves at a distinct disadvantage. As one disgruntled student put it: \Hell there just aren't any sheep in Nassau County.\ The seniors soon remedied the situation, however. Traveling in trucks and buses, they scoured the Northeast for wholesale sheep dealers. One enterprising pre-med managed to buy 450 head; he Was immediately accepted at Harvard. There were. of course, scattered incidents of cheating. A Chicago FROM: Craig Carlson, Chairman Mrs. Marra's office and are free. Parents Weekend Committee Your parents have received a This year Parents Weekend will schedule of. events and we hope be held on April 30, May 1 and 2. that you ~111 en~ourage them to It promises to be an exciting attend th1s spec1al weekenq. If weekend featuring a concert and there are any furthe! questwns, dance by the great Benny please contact Cra1~ Carlson, Goodman and his Sextet. Tickets (370-6112) or Lorrame Marra for this event may be picked up in < 37 0-6118). WEEKEND COSTS Benny Goodman Concert Drinks at Concert Drinks at Cocktail party Breakfast & Brunch Saturday picnic lunch Saturday lunch Play (The Lady's not for Burning) Cabaret Movie (A Touch of Class) FREE $1.00 $1.00 at cost $1.50 per person at cost $ .50 students $2.00 parents $f.oo per person $1.00 per person ,:1 ); '' l Ur1 wh th< we ed ell <:i( kt H cc to de 01 el st· pc tli tt pi le be al T h< t\ A s h 0 l

rJ ~:-ti .. '. Pagel Who ·the hell cares about apathy? by PET}:R SOBOL 1;u tell you what's wr<mg wi.,h Umon College. It's. those people who go out and get m~olved in aU those extra-curricular absurdities Opinion~· and. then yell at the rest of us for n9t being equally foolish. How do I benefit if I sit on a committee t~at no one even heard of, or if I sweep up .in the radio station or if . I stay up all night building a newspaper that people read without paying attention. That's not what I pay tuition for. I don't know what aU those how to run . your life. I'm paying plenty of money for this ride and I want some of it back some day. You want to goof off - that's your affair. Don't expect me at your-meetings, your dances, your speakers - that's not what I'm here for. Recipe for a -college to be · n·amed Union maniacs who have this different idea of how to live at college are doing at Union in the first place. I worked hard in high school and I was accepted here because its adm!ssions people knew I would contmue to work hard. They knew that l was the kind of student that makes Union; the kind that goes on in a profession; the kind that adds up to a good reputation for Union which is the only thing that's ·going to keep Union alive these days. Someone like me who's going places in this world isn't going to throw all that money in at some school that graduate places never heard of. You've got to go to a place where; if you can turn it out, you've .got it made. Tuition is a lot of money and I want a return for my investment. And the way things stand, the only way I can be assured ofa ret\lrn is if I work like a dog all my four years. After all, the one night I spend in the Pub another guy gains a few points on a final exam and maybe bumps me down a graqe and down the drain for grad school. If you don't like me, or what you think I'm doing to Union, then you better stop admitting people like me. But if you do that, you know . perfectly well that Union will lose a whole mess of applicants and they can't afford that right now. by 119WJE LAX One day long.ago, when people went to college only for an ed~cation (i.e., pr.e. J79S), soll1e enhghtened Vasectady residents decid~ that i{ their town was to keep up With Boston and New Haven, this area would need a college of its own. {Yes; contra~y to popular belief, then.~ ·is documented evidence ·that there once existed a sparse sprinkling of elite Va~ectadians. The area's sterility, however, precluded the pos~ibility of propagation by these \Vorthy few~ and by the time the town~s name was given a new prefix, the only enlightened local left was mistaken for a -mad man because of his constant rambling about a sil~oteen-sided building.) That was some time in the first half of the 19th century ~at least twenty years before Chester Arthur had his .first band. Schenectady, unfortunately, never had any enlightened natives on its own. Let me move on from that digression and: ·continue with the history of the est~~:blishment of our · venerable 'institution. The first tbing recQgllized was the need' for a president. For months this .planning group (who called themselves the· Board of Trustees) sat in Hale House, had infot\mal banquets. and argued about the concrete <5Ubstance Which is essential for the success of a college president. (Recent disclosures have revealed that there was also an. animated discussion on the location of the flag pole, the only staff• whidt woUld play any · role in · their futures)•. Inadvertently, when one unsuspecting orator became . excessivelY emotional and lost his chattering dentures to the table, the group sturnbled upon that one. and only essential. They searched far and wide in that preortJ'to- dontal tim(,!: to find the man with the p~rfect teeth and smile (remember; in those days Tom Bonner's incredible incisors Were only breaking through the gums); no one thought to give any attention to wisdoms. · There was still one thing missing: what would all those boys have to do with themselves? To alienate the social reper- cussions of individual mastu:rbation, the founders ·created fraternities for group satisfaction, mental stimulation, and ftiendship (back then the classical Gieek method was still a form to be admi·red and emulated) .. Thus, all those young men were kept gay- (sic: happy). Some notable national frats; such as Upsilon Phi Sigma, F.U. and Horney; were first still born on this campus. . And tfiere was a college. · lastly, I would like to address myself to aU the myths about how Union secured its name. The most recent story as to the birth of this Continued on Page 9 I surely wish that it wasn't like this but wishing doesn't get any work done. There's something l want to be. My reasons for ·wanting to be that something are nobody's business. In order to become that something, there are things I've got to do and therefore things l can't do. It's a choice I'm free to make. Face it: you're stuck with me. So now that you realize that, don't scream apathy while I'm trying to wotk. Due to the Passover and · Easter holidays, applications for next year's committees will be accepted as late as Friday, April 23rd in Mrs. Marra's office. However, the Committee on Committees would appreciate that all applications be filed at the earliest possible date. Committee On Committees Plans for doomed building viewed~· So listen; if you're one of those jokers who came to college to party and mess around in little diddlypoo clubs and things, just leave me alone; I don't tell you Apply now for next year's Term Abroad Programs in Colombia, Greece, Germany, and Israel. The · German program will occur in the spring term; the others will be in the winter. See Professor Warde in HU 211 for details about the programs in Colombia, (;ermany, and Israel; and see Professor Reece for information about the program in Athens •. lnnoc:uous· Nott: An innocent victim by SAM FRANDINO The Nott Memorial is synony- mous· with Union College. Its structure consists of a sixteen sided exterior, two stories high, .capped by a condemned third floor. d<;>me bearing. a Hebrew mscnptaon. The wall.s are encrusted with a gnarled armor plating .ofancient ivy, which upon closer inspection seems to be the only means of support the structure possesses. The N ott's presence is for~boding, and yet 'it seems . impossible to imagine a Union College campus void of its most prominent form of architectural design. But the Nott Memorial is dying. Day by day the ivy slowly works its way into the mortar which holds the stones of the building in place. The weather wears on the now feeble frame of the stat.ely edifice. And from within, the Mountebanks pound; ~lowly eroding the structure, like ' ' the silent . hammers which since there wasn't any money attempting to ink a «;ontract w,ith Ad111inistrators are not the only destroyed Rome. . • .aw.ailable to .do· ,an;y.t:hing · oat· .th.e .M GM -w11tclt ·wg.uld. 1ny.olve. .u~qg -ones concerned about what do do · Are we to allow the Nott to present time. · Carter then the Nott for a scene m a movte with the Nott. The recently crumble before our very eyes or is suftli~sted tpat ~enner reduce the Silm Peckinpa~ was planning to formed Conduct Ombudsman t here ·a £ea·s. ible course of actt\on m: · er 0 · co · e8e commtttees dtrect. The ftlm would be a Committee has submitted a from 346 to 25 and put the money k f th 1 · h ·n which can be taken to preserve saved toward restering the Nott. ~e~a e o , e c asstc t n er proposal to the College which this poor v.ictim of circumstance, Bonner thought it was a good Kmg Ko_ng, and ~he N.ott was would entail knocking off the that circumstance being lack of idea, but explained that 'the under hagh c_onstderatto~ .. to roof of the Nott to create an open funds. There are those who would faculty and students wouldn't replace th~ .Empue Stat~ Bmldmg air arena. The COC plans to use prefer to h;t the Nott run its have any_ thing to do in their spare as the ~dlftce upon whtch Kong this open arena as an integral part course of eventual self destruction · C meets _hts d?om .. Enteman made of its program for instituting at the hands of the elements. !~:·Ahart~~ · sa:d,th\Yes thars ~w? sttpulattons 10 the deal. He punishment for heinous crimes However, most would prefer to problem an ~~:ha e th: sare~::a~ tnstste~ th:t the fartd ~f ~he committed against the student see the old gentleman remain aegencies.\ Carter then.suggested ~ream~ng eaut_Y•. P aye . Y ay body. The COC would hold intact, and for a variety of th ·t b h . ld b bl . ray m the ongtnal verston, be public punishment sessions in the reasons, a· ~a~ e e wou .e a e t~ played by Stephanie Aiken. In arena. These . would be open to In a recent visit to the campus, put t e ott to personal use as hts Enteman's estimation Aiken is th bl' · 1 h private peanut silo or perhaps . ' e pu tc at a· nomma c arge presidential hopeful Jimmy G ld F d . h •b . d the only person ahve who could and all proceeds would go to the C d era or mag t e mtereste 1 t · 1· · · th 1 arter expresse a deep concern · k · 'd · · h N come c ose 0 nva 'tog e ung College. The College would also th f t f th b \ld. A 10 ta mg up rest ency 10 t e ott power of Wray En· ternan also b · · over e u ure o e ut . mg. s after the November election. . . . d h h. · f K b . e gtven a refreshment concesston . President Bonner· and he strolled mstste t at t e part o ong e an th a E t 11 h Bonner and Carter smiled, 1 d b M k S \th 1 . .. e rena. ven ua Y enoug out of the Memorial Chapel after . 1 . bl' d\ h h P aye Y ar mt • c atmmg money would be raised to restore Carter's highly inspiring and tempo!an ~ 1 ~ mg eac · ot er. that Smith would be a natural for informative speech, Carter Meanwhtle, 10 the _office. of the role. The .deal is still pending. Continued on Page 11 queried, \What ah youall gonna Provost Enteman, more senous do with the Nott?\ Bonner negotiations concerning the Nott answered that he didn't know were going on. Enteman was / ... union college Concordiensis EDITORS-IN-CHIEF ............................. - .. Michael Affinito, David Moskowitz CULTURE ........................... , .............................. Sue Finkelstein, Diane Nelson NEWS .... : .............................................................................. Audrey Rothschild FEATURES ...................................................................................... Sue Dmper SPORTS ........................................................ John Busterud, Charlie Flanagan, Allyne Price LAYOUT ........................................................................................ Lance Travis CLASSIFIEDS .............................................................................. Hope Fabian ADS ................................................................... Sheryl Farber, Rhonda Kaplan ART ................................................................................................ Lester Weiss · PHOTO EDITOR ............................................................................ Greg Cohen CALENDAR. CIRCULATION ................................................ Joe Cappuccio CONTRIBUTING EDITOR ............................................................ Jack Pitney COPY ................................................................................. : ......... Cathy Marthy ~UH~CKIPTIONS ................................................ : ........................ Shelley Gold NATIONAL ADS ............................................................................ Steve Kelly PHOTO ST AI-'!'.......... ......... . ............... Don Hamerman, Lori Green;, Ben Green, Mike Rotundi, Gary Price, Sue Kaplan, Alan Stern, Neil Kronick, Robce, Rudy Lu, Rich Guardian, Kevm Schary, Ken M'=K.enzie, Di\ve Grossman STAFF THIS ISSUE .................................... Sue Kronish. Arnie Hiller. Neil Schwartz, Pete Sobol, Carol Venezia, Bob Weinstein. l.iz Pava. Dan Rosenbaum. J. Smigen, Bill Plaus. Sue Brickman. Naomi Robbins, John Ronventre CONCORDIENSIS Is published 'every ·Wednesday by''\ the studen~ body of Union College, Old Gym Hall, Schenectady, . Dismantling of Nott Memorial to make way for Ombudsmen arena is well underway. . N.Y.; to which Postal Forms 3579 are dlreded. Publications Offiee: The Jewish . World Publications, 416 Smith St., Schenectady, N.Y.li305 (370·5483). Entered In the Schenectady Post omee as Second Class Matter. Subscription Rate 35 cents . per copy. 58.00 a year delivered anywhere In the United States.

t i ~ ~ ., ,, i ,:> ); '' \ ~ J,1 L' ·i 'f 1 ~~ :i !j ' ! ~ '· \ \ ''J l), ' r 1 i :~! ' ' Pagel Who the hell cares about apathy? by PETER SOBOL I'll tell you what's wrong with Union College. It's those people who go out and get involved in all those extra-curricular absurdities and then yell at the rest of us for not being equally foolish. How do I benefit if I sit on a committee that no one even heard of, or if I sweep up in the mdio station or if I stay up all night building a newspaper that people read without paying attention. That's not what I pay tuition for. I don't know what all those maniacs who have this differeHt idea of how to live at college are doing at Union in the first place. I worked hard in high school and l was accepted here because its adm!ssions people knew I would contmue to work hard. They knew that I was the kind of student that makes Union; the kind that goes on in a profession; the kind that adds up to a good reputation for Union which is the only thing that's going to keep Union alive these days. how to run your life. I'm paying plenty of money for this ride and I want some of it back some day. You want to goof off - that's your affai.r. Don't expect me at your· meetings, your dances, your speakers - that's not what I'm here for. Opinion: Recipe for a college to be named Union Someone like me who's going places in this world isn't going to thmw all that money in at some school that graduate places never heard of. You've got to go to a place wheFe, if you can turn it out, you've got it made. Tuition is a lot of money and I want a return for my investment. And the way things stand, the only way I can be assured of a return is if I work like a dog all my four years. After all, the one night I spend in the Pub another guy gains a few points on a final exam and maybe bumps me down a grade and down the drain for grad school. If you don't like me, or what you think I'm doing to Union, then you better stop admitting people like me. But if you do that, you know perfectly well that Union will lose a whole mess of applicants and they can't afford that right now. Face it: you're stuck with me. by HOWIE LAX One day long ago, when people went to college only for an education (i.e., pre 1795). some enlightened Vasectady residents clecided that if their towH was to keep up with Boston and New Haven, this area would need a college of its own. (Yes, contrary to popular belief, there is documented evidence that there once existed a sparse sprinkling of elite Vasectadians. The aFea's sterility, however, precluded the possibility of propagation by these worthy few, and by the time the town's name was given a new prefix, the only enlightened local left was mistaken for a mad man because of his constant rambling about a sixteen-sided building.) That was some time in the first half of the 19th century - at least twenty years before Chester Arthur had his first band. Schenectady, unfortunately, never had any enlightened natives on its own. Let me move on from that digression and continue with the history of the establishment of our venerable institution. The first thing recognized was the need for a president. For months this planning group (who called themselves the Board of Trustees) sat in Hale House, had info-rmal banquets, and argued about the concrete substance which is essential for the success of a college president. (Recent disclosures have revealed that there was also an animated discussion on the location of the flag pole, the only staff which would play any role in their futures). Inadvertently, when one unsuspecting orator became excessively emotional and lost his chattering dentures to the table, the group stumbled upon that one and only essential. They searched far and wide in that preortho- dontal time to find the man with the perfect teeth and smile (remember: in those days Tom Bonner's incredible iacisors were only breaking through the gums); no one thought to give any attention to wisdoms. · There was still one thing missing: what would all those boys have to do with themselves? To alienate the social reper- cussions of individual masturbation, the founders created fraternities for group satisfaction, mental stimulation, and friendship (back then the classical Greek method was still a form to be admired and emulated). Thus, all those young men were kept gay (sic: happy). Some notable national frats; such as Upsilon Phi Sigma, F.U. and Horney; were first still born on this campus. And there was a college. Lastly, l would like to address myself to all the myths about how Union secured its name. The most recent story as to the birth of this Continued on Page 9 I surely wish that it wasn't like this but wishing doesn't get any work done. There's something I want to be. My reasons for wanting to be that something are nobody's business. In order to become that something, there are things I've got to do and therefore things l can't do. lt's a choice I'm free to make. So now that you realize that, don't scream apathy while I'm trying to work. Due to the Passover and Easter bolidays, applications for next year's committees will be accepted as late as Friday, April 23rd in Mrs. Marra's office. Howe'Ver, the Committee on Committees would appreciate that all applications be filed at the earliest possible date. Committee On Committees Plans for doomed building viewed: So listen: if you're one of those jokers who came to college to party and mess around in little diddlypoo clubs and things, just leave me alone; I don't tell you Apply now for next year's Term Abroad Programs in Colombia, Greece, Germany, and Israel. The German program will occur in the spring term; the othei'S will be in the winter. See Professor Warde in HU 211 for details about the programs in Colombia, Germany, and Israel; and see Profes!!lor Reece for information about the program in Athens. Innocuous Nott: An innocent victim by SAM FRANDINO The Nott Memorial is synony- mous with Union College. Its structure consists of a sixteen sided exterior, two stories high, capped by a condemned third floor dome bearing a Hebrew inscription. The walls are encrusted with a gnarled armor plating of ancient ivy, which upon closer inspection seems to be the only means of support the structure possesses. The N ott's presence is foreboding, and yet it seems impossible to imagine a Union College campus void of its most prominent form of architectural design. But the Nott Memorial is dying. Day by day the ivy slowly works its way into the mortar which holds the stones of the building in place. The weather wears on the now feeble frame of the stately edifice. And from within, the Mountebanks pound; ..;Jowly eroding the structure, like ., :· the silent hammers which destroyed Rome. Are we to allow the Nott to crumble before our very eyes or is there a feasible course of action which can be taken to preserve this poor victim of circumstance, that circumstance being lack of funds. There are those who would prefer to let the Nott run its course of eventual self destruction at the hands of the elements. However, most would prefer to see the old gentleman remain intact, and for a variety of reasons. In a recent visit to the campus, presidential hopeful Jimmy Carter expressed a deep concern over the future of the building. As President Bonner and he strolled out of the Memorial Chapel after Carter's highly inspiring and informative speech, Carter queried, \What ah youall gonna do with the Nott'?\ Bonner answered that he didn't know { ' since there wasn't any money attempting to ink a contract with Administrators are not the only available to do anything at the MG M wtitch would involve using ones concerned about what do do present time. Carter then the Nott for a scene in a movie with the Nott. The recently su1u~bsted that Bonner reduce the Sam Peckinpah was planning to formed Conduct Ombudsman num er or cOllege commtttees direct. The film would be a Committee has submitted a from 346 to 25 and put the money k f th 1 · h 'II rema e o e c asstc t n er proposal to the College which saved toward restoring the Nott. \King Ko.ng,\ and ~he N.ott was would entail knocking off the Bonner thought it was a good under htgh c.onstderatto~ . to roof of the N ott to create an open idea, but explained that tthe replace the_ .Emptre State. Bmldmg air arena. The COC plans to use faculty and students wouldn't h d f h h K have anything to do in their spare as t e ~ I tee upon w tc ong this open arena as an integral part time. Carter said, \Yes that's meets _his d?om .. Enteman made of its program for instituting !W<? stipulatiOns m the deal. He punishment for heinous crimes true. Ah anticipate the same sorta mstste~ that the part of the committed against the student problem with the fed-er-al b 1 d b F aegencies.\ Carter then suggested scream.mg eauty •. P aye . Y ay body. The COC would hold that maybe he would be able to Wray m the ongmal verston, be public punishment sessions in the put the Nott to personal ·use as his played ~y St':pha~ie Ai~en. 1 .n arena. These would be open to private peanut silo, or perhaps Enteman s estlmat!on, Atken IS the public at a nominal charge Gerald Ford might be interested the only person _ahv~ who could and all proceeds would go to the . . come close to nval•mg the lung College. The College would also ~1t~~k~~~eup ~e~~~:~~/n ~r:c~~~~ po~er of Wray. Enteman also be given a refreshment concession Bonner and Carter smiled, mststed that the part. of Ko~g. be in the arena. Eventually enough played ~y Mark Smtth, clatmmg money would be raised to restore temporarily blinding each other. that Smtth would be a natural for Meanwhile, in the office of the role. The deal is still pending. Continued on Page 11 Provost Enteman, more serious ~~·•••••••••••••••••••••••• negotiations concerning the Nott were going on. Enteman was umon college Concordiensis EDITORS-IN-CHIEF ................................ Michael Affinito, David Moskowitz CULTURE .......................................................... Sue Finkelstein, Diane Nelson NEWS .................................................................................. Audrey Rothschild FEATURES ...................................................................................... Sue Draper SPORTS ...................................................... John Busterud. Charlie Flanagan, Allyne Price !.A YOUT ... ................. ............. ... . . ........... ........ . .. Lance Travis Cl.ASSlFIEDS ...................... . . ................................... Hope Fabian ADS............ .. .. .... . .............. . . . . . . .Sheryl f'arbcr. Rhonda Kaplan ART............................ ............ . ..................... Lester Wei~s PHOTO EDITOR.......... . ............... Greg Cohen CALENDAR. CIRCULATION. . .. Joe Cappuccio CONTRIBUTING EDITOR... . ........................ Jack Pitney COPY.......................................... . ..Cathv Marlh\ :-.utl~tiOPriONS ... .. ................... .Sheiley Gold NATIONAL ADS........... . .. Steve Kelly PHOl 0 S I Al-l'... . . ........ . . . .. Don Hamcrman. L<m Green;::, Ben Green, Mike Rotundt, Gar) Pnce. Sue Kaplan, Alan Stern, :-;etl Kr,,nd .• Robee, Rudy Lu, Rich Guardtan. Ke\ln S~har), Ken ~h:Kcn11c, Da'c (ir'\'man Sl o\1 t TillS lSSl'F Sue Kr,,ni,h. \rnie Hiller. Neil Schwam. Pete Sobol. Carol Vene1ia. Bllb Wetnstein. I tl Pa,a. Dan Ro,enhaum. J. Smigcn. Rtll Piau•. Sue Brte~man. '>anmt R<'i'l~tn,, John Rnmentre Dismantling of Nott Memoria/to make way for Ombudsmen arena is well underway. CONCORDIENSIS is published 'every Wednesday by\ the student body of Union College, Old Gym Hall, Sfhenectady, N.Y.; to which Postal Forms 3579 are dlreded. Publications Office: The Jewish World Publications, 416 Smith St., Schenectady, N.Y. U30S (370-5483). Entered in the Schenectady Post Office as Setond OllSs Matter. Subscription Rate 35 cents per copy. $8,00 a year delivered anywhere In the United States.

PageS CONCORDIENSIS, Wednesdajl, April 14; 1.976 · Nott Memorial: Den1olition by neglect ·I feel a sense of frustration and despair. 1 can see it moaning and sobbing. Most people can~t. They know not why it cries. But I do. I've looked at the layers of filth and grime that cover the once proud and polished colored stones. Others think they notice the· web of ivy that is spun around the building. But they don't see the ivy at work, crawling and splitting, and pryin.,g every joint, crevice and scam it can attach its tentacles to. The inside of the· building is cleverly hidden to mask its emotions. Its spectacular and extensive ::ncaustic hand-laid tiles (one of the best displays in the nation) ric huricd in a coffin of two-by-fours called a stage. The stage is surrounded by walls of wood which hide the real bluestone. sandstone, and corored granite walls. And the lofty. light. free space up above capped by a cavernous dome that might convey some spirit? It is clamped shut by a great steel door which serves two purposes: it catches the buckets of rain that pour in from gapping holes in the dome far above; and it supports the huge, dark, heavy, lighting grid. How by KEVIN SCHARY can one see the former beauty? How can one feel the crumbling Nott Memorial cry for help, when it lies hidden by a curtain of wood and steel. and carpet? The second floor usually lies under a locked trap door to prevent anyone from responding to the building's abuse. The ss:cond .floor _reveals even jess of the eighteenth century, sixteen- sided primary example of \High V i c tor ian Gothic\ style architecture in America. It resembles the backstage of any theater: strewn with lumber. covered with yards of doth, and guarded by stymfoam manikins- who mock the Greek and Roman statues of st-one that once adorned the lower gallery. But one; you are in the grip of that spirited bui,lding it manages to whisper a silent cry from above. The whisper comes from the space between yet another locked trap door and the floor of the upper gallery. A stealthy look between that crack reveals the vast hall within. One can see the emotion pouring in from the stained glass of the .lofty dome, radiating out in that large open Achilles activities expand by SUE CASSIDY Achilles Rink will be used for a variety of college and outside functions between now and September. Bob Behan, assistant manager of the rink, provided Concordiensis with a schedule of events to be held in the rink. School Events April 24, Prospective Students' Day April 25, B.S.A. Concert May I, Benny Goodman concert, Parents' Weekend May 13, Loggins and Messina, The BSA Presents RAMSEY LEWIS AND FATBACK in the Rink, Sunday April 25th at 8:00 P.M. For ticket information, contact the B.S.A. or the Student Activities office. Social Committee Concert Conventions May 15, Senior Citizens May 29, Natalie Cole Concert The rink will serve as a backup site for graduation, in case of rain. It may also be used for other activities during the summer. According to Behan, the pre- drilled concrete floqr under the ice may be used for tennis courts. There is also a possibility of a hockey training camp for children run by .an outside group. As this is a trial year, Behan said that there are many possible uses of the rink. Mountebanks General Meeting Monday April 11, 8:00-9:00 P.M. Attendance by anyone who has partici- pated in Mountebanks or Cabaret activities is a must! Everyone is welcome! space. One can feel the sobs of a once proud monument, a vestige of Union's past, cascading down ' the empty winds of an abandoned dream. One can see and feel the ultimate paradox of Union College's Nott Memorial - the dazzling beauty of a spirit and symbol at t.he same time the spalling plaster cries in silent despair. A ten tho.usand dollar histor-ic structure report by the architectural firm headed by John Mesick was a start. The repm::t is magnificent and covers the history of the Nott, the building of it, the a'buses it has suffered, and recommendations for restoration and future use. The students want the N ott Memorial saVed and restored. Alumni do too, as well as the administration, and the trustees. The costs are tremendous. But the value of the Nott Memorial to Union College cannot be st<:~tcd in dollars and cents. The initiative lies with President Bonner, fhe administration and the trustees. Can it be done'! Professor Robert G. Meyers, of the State University of New York at Albany, will be on campus Friday .as the first visiting philosopher partici- pating in the course, \What Philosophy Is.\ Professor Meyers' afternoon lecture, enti tl.ed \Knowledge Foundations, and Coherence,\ is open to all interested members of the campus community. The lecture will be held in Humanities 117 at 2:30 P.M., Friday, April 16th. Refreshments will follow the meeting. BUSINESS OPPORTUNITY Stuff Envelo~es $25.00 PER HUNDRED Immediate Earnings Send $1.00 To: Envelopes Dept. 612 A 102 Charles Street Boston, Mass. 02114 FOR LIQUOR AND WINE Try Jd<e Lipstein't 464 State Street FR4,.t881 Will Nott Memorial go the way of doomed Washburn Hall? .............................. =· W ANTE.D : : • •• = 20 qu~lified bartenders to work on Saturday, Ma,y 1st; = II serving cocktails in the Achilles Rink during the concert.! . . ~ • • • • M Rate: $2.25/hour E.O.E. N = See Rita Reece at Personnel! = ••••••••••••••••••••••••• FOR ffis~~eFs Elet'i STERLING JEWELRY fr.om TOWLE There are few things that please a woman more than a gift of sterling jewelry. Towle's stunning Old Master jewelry makes an exceptionally fine Mother's bay gift. It's design is taken from Towle's .famous Old Master sterling flatware~ one of the all-time best sellers. Old Master Cross, small Old Master Cross, small, with chain Old Master Little Ring, plain Old Master Little Ring with turquoise stone $10.00, $15.00 $12.50 Maurice B .. Graubart & Sons- \Fur Three Generations\ 166 JAY STREET, DOWNTOWN 374-5404 CON ct prep; 1:00 direc or h: N1 mon de tel poli< past the 1 this with bud: com liv·in incr· nex1 VI mor and yea1 d. ire sch1 $25 aw~ ope inc1 ava fun sch yea '1 fro Lo; the pa1 am an1 ab1 ac< als an int aft ed diJ lm Lc fe< at Vi en th P< G lit lil di hi Sl

Page8 CONCORDIENS/S, Wednesdaj?, Apri/14, 1976 Nott Memorial: De~nolition by neglect I feel a sense of frustration and despair. I can see it moaning and sobbing. Most people can't. They know not why it cries. But I do. I've looked at the layers of filth and gnrne that cover the once pmud and polished colored ~tone~. Others think they notice th~: v.cb ol i\y that is spun around the budt.hng. But the~ don't see the 1\Y at v.ork. crawling and spl!ttmg. and pryil)_g. cn:ry JOint. ern 1cc and 'cam It can attach Its tentacles to. I he l!lsidc ol the huild1ng 1s de\crl\ h1ddt:n to mask its cllhltlt;ns. lt-. sp.:ctacular and c.\tt:n~l\t: :ncaustiL hand-la1d tile~ (one ot th~· h.:st d1~pla~~ in the natitnn he huned 1n a cnltin ol \V.tl-hy-tours calk·d a stage. I he 'tage 1s ~urroundcd hy walls ol v.ood v.h1ch h1de the real hluestonc. 'ando,tone. and colon:d g.rar11tc \\all'> . .-\nd the loll\, ltght. tree space up ahmc capped h~ a c;.l\ ernous dome that n11ght uH1\C~ some spmt? It 1s clamped 'hut b~ a ~rL·at 'tccl Joor \\ h1ch 'encs tv.o purpo,c-;: 11 catches the bud,ets ol ralll that pour m !rom gappmg holes l!l the dome tar above; and 11 supports the huge. dark. hea\y, l1ghtmg gnd. Ho\\ by KEVIN SCHAR Y can one see the former beauty? How can one feel the crumbling Nott Memorial cry for help, when it lies hidden by a curtain of wood and steel and carpet'' lhe second 11oor usually lies under a locked trap door to pn:vcnt anyone from responding to the building's ahusc. lhe '>t:conu llonr reveals even less of the eighteenth century, slxtecn- ..,tded primary example of \High V1ctnrian (iothic\ qylt: archili.:\:ture 1t1 America. It rl'>cmhks the hacbtagc ol am theater: .... tre\\fl V.Ith lumher. l'O\Crl'd with vards nl cloth, and guarded hy sty-roloam mantknl'> \\ho mock thc (ireck and Roman .... tatuco., ul ,t,HH: that llnce adorned I he lov. n u<d len. . , . Kut once ~ ou arc 1t1 the gnp nl that -,pmted building It manages to v.hl>per a silent cry !rom ahtl\C. l he v.hlsi)Cf come; !rom the 'pacl' hctv.cen yet another locked trap door and the lloor ol the upp..:r gallery. A stealthy luok hd\\een that crack reveals the vast hall \\ilh;n. One can see the emotion P•lUnng Ill !rom the ..,t;uned glaso., ol thc Iotty dome. radiating lltlt in that large open Achilles activities expand by SCE CASSIDY Achilles Rink will be used for a variety of college and outside I unct1ons between now and September. Bob Behan, assl>tant manager of the rink, provided Concurdiensis with a schedule of events to be held in the rink. School E-vents April 24. Prospective Students' Day April 25. B.S.A. Concert May I. Benny Goodman concert, Parents' Weekend May !J. Loggins and Messina, The BSA Presents RAMSEY LEWIS AND FATBACK in the Rink, Sunday April 25th at 8:00 P.:Vl. For ticket information, contact the B.S.A. or the Student Acthitie'i office. Sm:1al Cormmttee Concert Con Yentions May 15. Senior Citi~:ens Mav 29. \atalie Cole Concert I he rink will serve as a backup >ite for graduation. in case of rain. It may also be used for other actiVities during the summer. According to Behan, the pre- drilled concrete 11oor under the ice may he used for tennis courts. There is also a po~sibliity of a hockey traming camp lor children run by an outside group. As this is a tnal year. Behan said that there are many posstble uses of the rmk. Mountebanks General Meeting Monday April 11, 8:00-9:00 P.M. Attendance by anyone who has partici- pated in \llountebanks or Cabaret activities is a must! E'erJone is welcome! space. One can feel the sobs of a once proud mo1mment, a vestige of Union's past. cascading down the empty wiNds of an abandoned dream. One caN see and feel the ul,timatc paradox of Union College's \;ott Memorial the Jauling beat!lt) of a ;,pirit and s\mbol at the same time the spalling plaster cries in silent dc~pai r. A ten thou~and dnllar historic ~tructure report by the an:httcctural lirm headed hy John Mes1ck was a start. I he report is magntticent and co\ers the hl-,tory of the \ott. the building ol 11. the abuses it ha~ sulfered. .111d recommendations lllr rc'>ltlration and future use. I he 'tudents \\ant the '\ott ~lemonal sa\ctl and restored . Alumni til) too. as well as the admmi-.tratinn, and the trustees. I ht: co-.ts are tremetH.Ious. But the \alu~ tlf tht: '\ott \1enwrial to l'nion Collqre cannot be stated in dollars and ccnb. I he initiative ltes w lth Pres1dent Bonner. the aJmiill,tta!Hlll and the trustees. Ctn 11 be done·> Professor Robert (;. Meyers, of the State t:nhersity of ~ew York at Albany, will be on campus Friday as the first visiting philosopher partici- pating in the course, \What Philosophy Is.\ Professor Meyers' afternoon lecture, entitled \Knowledge Foundations, and Coherence,\ is open to all interested members of the campus community. The lecture will be held in Humanities 117 at 2:30 P.M., Friday, April 16th. Refreshments will follow the meeting. BUSINESS OPPORTlH·II1 f Stuff fnvelopes $25.00 PER HUNDRED Immediate Earnings Send $1.00 To: Envelopes Dept. 612A 102 Charles Street Boston,Mass. 02114 ~------------------------1 j __________ --------------~ Go~D CANVAS 'BA&s - A.rt assor+Merr+ o).... l..lle-11-...-nac\e. c..o..nvas b~.s \ -tl--e K1rd ~o1.dt-' ~~VII::! , (\ {11'1e ~;teres- · 'f\e.a'SOI'Iaio l.j t=nced - ~lrno~t dl\tl..\ 00\0r 1..\011.'& \1\\..e.- red-:;,6\J.u..S 1 (\reens ~df'l5 brdwli5 eve_n lJr'IIC\I\ &rl\tt , ' ) } ,; - ~~ c..ar. choo6e C!DrT\ttlSh n'\ sh' 1 peJ. \--¢ nd.Re..s ard ~5<!YI~ J:- w~ ~ ~~ - \o o.,e:!r. 3 ~IDSe.~\\\ looK, ~rnp a ~ U\ 13o:x \qq;, 1 c:;r- ca\ \ \3ii -b'..ll - \tJe eve!\ make 'ncrvJ>e (o'(' o~~Ict.) c.:>lls- ~tnK 11'1 ct-- What cl 'f\IC< r'l.1C\- roY\ t.~ou.r:selt .---.... -'\l OY\ 5cmeoY\e -~~~~~: ..J . !Ce,.~:S\ e'x'+.-<l la•o..e w•'ttl Si\or'f ha\l!le. ~ 'YP,.I, ,vy-. C,•. ;z,e, ,...,,~\. ! <!! \\) *' 1-, 0..1'4 'e.. ' ! ·-~ ---/ ! .-.-,l.:'i!'l~-'1!>'\\ •:J!JII\'l-1'. .... ~...._-,.. .... .-;;..,'lt\;...; '11'-.,.~ ~.._,_.-;.,<',!;..\'t~~ ~--;.o:!.i::-~'' /\'·-.... .. Will Nott Memorial go the way of doomed Washburn Hall? ···~·-·······~·········· : \\~1\NTED: = I M = 20 qualified bartenders to work on Saturday, May 1st;= 11 serving cocktails in the Achilles Rink during the concert.= • N = Rate: $2.25/hour E.O.E. M I I 1 See Rita Reece at Personnel! 1 ••aa~••••••••••••••••••• 1 I l' l i l FOR ffi®~~e~s ~@'i STERLING JEWELRY from TOWLE There are few things that please a woman more than a gift of sterling jewelry. . Towle's stunning Old Master jewelry makes an exceptionally fine Mother's Day gift. It's design IS taken from Towle's famous Old Master sterling flatware- one of the all-time best sel:ers. Old Master Cross. small Old Master Cross small witf-J c:hain Old M.'lster L1ttle Ring. plam Old Master Little R1ng w1th turquc•ise <;:one $10.00. $15.00 $12.50 1\iaurice BQ Graubart Sons . ' \.J '· r COM Ch prep a 1:00 Loun Va Univ• Cour Va Siem ~ W\' ' . direc' or lo Nc more deter polic past, the r this i with bud~ comJ livin. incn next w mon and year dire~ schc $25, awa opel incr ava1 tun< sciH yca1 I lror Lm the par am1 and abr ace als< are mt< aft• edl d ir loa l.o lcJ J at \I Cll thl pu (II lit Itt di lll

Caaenctai'-'···~-------P,-age-9_ Th d Ap ,ri·l .j .. s·· .Cabarl,!t-Anyfacultyorstaff Tall in ·the Saddle, john Friday, CONCORDIENSJS. Wednesday, Apri/14, 1976 · .. Uf S a y' . ·. . • . -. member interested in working at Wayne, 7:00 p.m., Saratoga the Cabaret on <lOY Thursday Public Library Community Christian preparation 1:00 p.m. Prayer Se.-vice- in for Easter, 12:30 to Carnegie . Strauss Lounge. . Varsity Tennis, Union.vs. Clark Uniwersity, 2:00. p.m.,. Home Courts. Varsity Basebail, Union . vs. Siena College, 3:30 p.m., Away. Women's Softball, Union vs. Schenectady County Community College, 4:00 p.m. Library Field. Dr. Gary Orfield Lecture - \Political Realities and the Supreme Court's Bussing Decision.~· Sponsored by the Politi<;al F0rum. 4:00 p.m., SSOJ6. Financial aid - Continued ·rrom Page 3 programs. A student arraqges for direct scholarship replacing a job these private loans independently or loan. through a_ bank m other lending No student may be awarded institution. These are repayable at more aid than his or her need is 7% interest. A freshman may determined to be. This is Union's b orr 0 w $ 1 5 00 and · an policy a~d a federal law. !11 the upp,erclassman is entitle~ to $2000 past, Union has been able to meet per year. the needs of the student!; here, but lhere are two job programs at this is becoming harder every year Union: Grant,in-Aid jobs and· with rising costs and a limited College Work/Study jobs. The budget. The budget-. used for former are financed with money computing need, for a student from the operating budget. 80% liv-ing on campus, will be of the money for the latter comes increased from $§375 to. $6100 from the federal government and next year. . . the remaining 20% from Umon's Wher~ does Umon. get the \ operating , budget. Students rnone_y tor the scholar~~ Ips, loans, -holding these jobs work 8 hours a and JObs that ar~ offered ev~ry week and are paid $2.00 an hour. y~ar'! $3_25,000 ot ~he money for _ Last year it was $1.85 per hour d.1rect at~ comes from .e~dowed and next year it will probably be scholarships and ~pproxtmately $2.10 or $2.15 per hour. $25;000 comes from annual Almost 100% of the _students award~. The rest col!les from the receiving aid at Union have a ?peratmg budget; m . ~rder to financial aid \package.\ The mcr.ease t~e amount <?I money money for this year is distributed avmlable tor scholarships, more as follows: 625 students received funds must be faken from the direct· scholarship aid totaling school's operating bud_get each $843.000; 130 have Union College year. loans worth $100,000; 340 .are _ The money for ~oans comes receiving National Direct Student !rom the Natwn·al Duect Student Loans worth $196 000· 100 have Loan. program administered by Work/ Study jobs f~r $45,000; 150 the . t~der;al government. Every have Grant-in-Aid jobs for a total parttctpatmg college requests the f $54 o-o 0. 6 5 r e c~e i ve amount they think theY'll need §upplementrtry Educatwnal and they are usually awarded Opportunity Grants worth about 50% of what they ask for, $45,000; 113 receive Basic according to Mr .. Maras.· Union j:ducational Opportunity Grants also has its own loan fund. Loans worth $103,000; 8 students receive are repayable at 3% or 6% tuition remissions worth $22,000 interest, starting nine months because -they are sons or after a student finishes his or her daughters of faculty or staff; and education. If a srudent goes $27,000 from the operating directly on to graduate school, the budget goes to 7 international loan is deferred until after that. students under the Higher Loans are also a\<ailable through Education for Lasting Peace federal and state guaranteed loan program. He r ·b· . e' rt Continued from Page 4 · . Monet's works, he does not at re~ding an artist such as believe the artist to have worked Vincent Van Gogh's w_orks ~n . spontaneo~s bursts. T~e emotionally. Dr. Herbert believes mt_nc~te . de~a!l of Mor~:et.s this is because most people pamtmgs ts evtdence of the arttst s possess some knowledge of Van scientific and methodical work: Gogh's troubled life. However, Dr. Herbert's lecture dealt w1th little is known of Monefs private an impressionist painter from a life, therefore people have radical perspective. If the point difficulty in reading emotion in . about the importance of subject his works. matter cail be made in respect to Although Dr. Herbert believes Claude Monet, perhaps it can be subject matter to be importan~ in applied to other such artists. \ night, please contact Mrs. Marra Room, Free. Apr l·•t J.. 6 at the Student Activities Office. Gunhill Road, 8:30 p.m., - 9:00 and II :00 p.m.· at the Mother's Wine Emporium, RPl, Ca·baret. Troy. 270-6625. Film C_omm!ttee presents: •'The Sweet , Chau~jty, R,Pl players, Open Jam, open 8 p.m., st~rts App~en.~tceshtp or Duddy 8:30 p.m., 15th Street Lounge, 8:45 p.m., Eighth Step, 14 Wtllet Kravttz. 10:00. p.m. m SS 016. .R.P.L, Troy. $2.00, :n0-6503. Street, Albany. 434-1703. Sweet _Chanty, RPI Players, 8:30 p.m., 15th Street Lounge, RPI, Troy. $2.00. 270-6503. .Gunhill Road, 8:30 p.m., Mother's Wine Emporium, R PI, Troy, 270-6625. Varsity Golf, Union vs. Utica College, A way. Varsity Baseball, Union vs. Albany State University, 1:00 p.m. A.way. Rugby, Union vs. Siena College, 1:00 p.m., Awav. Junior Varsity tacrosse, lJmon \'S. Sj racusc U nivcrsity, I :30 p.m., Away. Women's Lacrosse, Union vs. Hartwick College, ~:00 p.m .. Library Field. Film Committee presesnts: \The Apprenticeship ol Duddy Kravitz.'' 7:00, 9:15, 11:30 p.m. in SS Ol6. Sweet Charity, RPI Players, ~:30 p.m., 15th Street Lounge, R PI, troy. $2.00, 270-6503. Sunday, Ap/ril 18 Film Committee Presents: \The Apprenticeship of Dud~y Kravitz,\ 7:00, 9:15, II :30 p.m. m SSOI6. Jack Wilkins Quartet, 8 p.m., Ramada Inn, 450 Nott Street, Schenectady. 370-7175. Athletics status viewed Continued fro~ Page .l competition forteams is ban-fied if a tournament extends more than seven days beyond the Saturday of the final Week of competition. · There is no restriction on post- season competition for individual performers such as those participating in All-Star games. According to NESCAC guidelines a coach is not &_llowed 'to visit prospective students at their horne's or otherwise seek private interviews with them. \This policy hurts our recruiting program while benefiting places such as Williams which have an alumni system set up to handle this situation,\ states Allison. He · went on to say that direct rectuitilig would greatly aid our \excellent coaching staff.\ These problems have forced the Athletic Task Force to seriously consider whether ·or not Union should remain a member of NESCAC _ Allison did say \The situation.now is much better than it was two years ago but it is still not that good.\ No alternate Athletic organization has yet been investigated to replace NESCAC according to Allison. Coach Allison, along with the rest of the force, has been investigating an indoor recreation center. He has taken into ac<;ount the impact of Achilles Rink and the effects of Title IX on the athletic program. ··A. \new' compl_ex such as this would encourage many students to use athletic facilities who are now intimidated by the present gym,\ mentioned Coach Alli~on. With an improvement . of the .present offering of the Athletic Department, Allison hopes the school will return to requirep gym. This would allow him to develop a very comprehensive program. A s~ries of seminars taught by many different people could be given if Allison could guarantee the instructors full attendance. Arts Department chairman Hugh Allen Wilson, a Task Force member, feels that funding for this complex will not compete with funding for an Arts Building. Wilson definitely sees a need for an athletic complex but is afraid the school might emphasize athletics over academics which would hurt : the school in the long run. Wilson said \both the Arts Complex and Athletie Complex have equal practical need but in the long run the Arts will be more beneficial to the College.\ Representatives from the Task Force will hold evening hearings to allow concerned members of the College Community to present their opinions and discuss the development of Union's intercollegiate sports program. These hearings will begin next week. Times and locations will be announced. If anyone wishes to submit a written statement, please forward it to the Athletic Committee in care of Prof. Elizabeth Mansfield in the Humanities Building. THE MEMBERSHIP OF NESCAC. Amherst Bates Bowdoin Colby Hamilton Middlebury Trinity Tufts Union Wesleyan Williams How to build a college intamous misnomer is that it was a portent of the peace that would be consummated by 9ener~l George Armsttong Electnc. It ts little wonder that this story was squashed for so many years. Another theory is that Sy Gar Gompers, Samuel Gompers' great grandfather, rolled his first cigar in this area while trying to organize student labor. This position is open to attack on the questionable issue of Indian labor and why a smoker like Gornpers failed to corner the peyote market. A more viable hypothesis is derived from the depiction of the school as a front for the A.M.A. Traveling incognito under such an inane name, no one would give our students any thought (i.e., no competition, sabotage. or bomb O)ntiQued from Page 7 scares)- until they saw .. Union\ T •shirts in the operating room. lt was to perpetuate this front that the term \liberal arts\ was invented and employed - then a novel fortn of study which served as a pleasant euphemism for pre- med. This label stuck until fairly recently when the closets were so full that they burst, expelling pre- meds anxious to secure full rights for two consenting adults to spend the night in the library together. The last fallacy I wou1d like to take issue with is the claim that the name \Union\ was selected as a representation of the unique secularity of the school. This is the most outlandish position of them all. Any astute observer could easily discern where the letters \com\ were removed from the unsuspecting remnants lett on the main gate (surely you condered whv we ha-ve two chapels). Thi; delinquency w:f.s attributed to the (then active) Schenectady faction of the JDL some time in the later half of the 19th century. The school's illusion of secularity was maintained by its,exclusion of all non-cant'asians - how many non-goys were there around here (or even on Long Guyland) back then? The truth of the matter is that the name \Union\ is simply an aberration of the English language. randomly selected tor no logical reason. There have been many attempts at changing the name but all to no avaiL I he only sensible thing left is to move the school to New Jersey.

Page 9 calendar Tb.ursday' Ap ril 15 Cabaret- Any faculty or staff Tall in the :Saddle, Jonn Friday, CONCORD!ENS!S, Wednesday, Aprill4, 1976 Prayer Service in for Easter, 12:30 to Carnegie Strauss Christian preparation l :00 p.m. Lounge. Varsity Tennis, Union vs. Clark University, 2:00 p.m., Home Courts. Varsity Baseball, Union vs. Siena College, 3:30 Away. Women's Softball, Union vs. Schenectady County Community College, 4:00 p.m. Library Field. Dr. Gary Orfield Lecture -- \Political Realities and the Supreme Court's Bussing Decision,\ Sponsored by the Political Forum. 4:00 p.m., SS016. Financial aid Continued from Page 3 program~. A student arranges for direct scholarship replacing a job these private loans independently or loan. through a bank or other lending No student may be awarded institution. These are repayable at more aid than his or her need is 7Cf( interest. A Freshman may dctcrminedtobe.ThisisUnion's borrow $1500 and an policy and a federal law. In the upperclassman is entitled to $2000 past, Union has been able to meet per year. the needs of the students here, but !here arc two job programs at this is becoming harder every year union: Grant-in-Aid jobs and with rising costs and a limited College Work. Study jobs. lhe budget. The budget used for former are tinanccd with money computing need, for a student from the operating budget. ~oc;( living on campus, will be of the money for the latter comes increased from $5375 to $6100 from the tederal government and next year. the remaining 2oc;; !rom Umon's Where does Union get the operating budget. Students money lor the scholarships, loans, holding these Jobs work l\ hours a and jobs that are offered every week and arc paid $2.00 an hour. year'? $325,000 ol the money lor Last year it was $1.!-!5 per hour direct aid comes from endowed and next year it will probably be scholarships and approximately $2.10 or $2.15 per hour. $25,000 comes from annual Almost lUWi of the students awards. I he rest comes from the receiving aid at Union have a operating budget; in order to financial aid \package.\ I he increase the amount of money money lor this year is distributed available for scholarships. more as tollows: 625 students received tunds must be taken from the direct scholarship aid totaling school's operating budget each $~43.000; 130 have Union College year. loans worth $1 00,000; 340 are I he money for loans comes receiving National Direct Student I rom the National Direct Student Loans worth $! lJ6.000; I 00 have Loan program administered by Work, Study jobs tor $45,000; 150 the federal government. Every have Grant-in-Aid jobs for a total participating college requests the Q r $54. 0 0 0; 6 5. r e c.e i v e amount they think they'll need ~upp1cmcntary EducatiOnal and they are usually awarded Opportunity Grants worth about 501.( of what they ask for, $45.000; 113 receive Basic according to Mr. Maras. Union l:ducational Opportunity Grants also has its own loan fund. Loans worth $103.000: X students receive arc repayable at Y'i or 6Ci tuition remissions worth $22,000 mtcrest. starting nine months because , they arc sons or alter a student linishcs his or her daughters of faculty or stall; and education. If a student goes $27,000 from the operating directly on to gradl:late school, the budget goes to 7 international loan is deterred until alter that. stmknb under the Higher l.oans arc also available through I·ducation lor Lasting Peace lcderal and 'tate guaranteed loan program. Herbert ('o~·:~n~~~ fr~:-~~geh: docs not at reading an artist such as hdievc the artist to havt: wnrkcd \ meent Van (iogh's 11 lHks 111 ~pnnta nt:ous hur,ts I he t:mottonally. Dr. llcrhcrt bt:lie\Cs rntncate detail nl l\1ont:t\ tim. 1.., hccaw.c mn't p..:opk pa1ntmg~ 1.., e\·idem:t: ol tht: artr~f, po-.,ess ..,omc kno'.'.lcdg<.: ot \\an >.nentittc and mt:thodrcal \\\llk (,ogh·, t roublcd lilt:. !lol\t'ICt. Dr llt:rherf, lectur~· dealt 11 ith little 1.., kllll\\11 tl! \1nn,·t\ ptt\alt: an 11Tlprc ... .,tonr:-t patntcr lrnm .1 ltlt.:. thc1dun· pl·opk ha\c rat.l1ral pa,pcctl\c. II thL· pornt tlillrcult\ tn IL\ddtlH! CtlllJ\1(\11 Ill ahollt th<: llllrortalllT tll \JihJt'l't h\ 11 orks. ' m •. ltl<:l ctn ht: made in rt•,pcrt t<> o\lthnugh I )1. !lelhclt n<.:lit'lt'' llaudt• \llllll'l. pc'l\har~ It C<ll\ hl· 'liht~L't matl<.:r to he 1mportant, Ill applied to olhL'I ,uch art1~h. member interested in working at Wayne, 7:00 p.m., Saratoga the Cabaret on any Thursday Public Library Community night, please contact Mrs. Marra Room, hee. \ r ·~ ~· 6 at the Student Activities Office. Gunhill Road, 1\:30 p.m., .t\. p 1 9:00 and I l :00 p.m.· at the Mother's Wine Emporium, R PI, .. r b rroy. 270-6625. Film Committee pre_sents: \I he ...a a ret. . l) d d Sweet Charity, RPI players, Open Jam, open ~ p.m., st~rts Appren.~iceship of .. u Y ~:30 p.m., L5th Street Lounge, ~:45 p.m., Eighth Step, 14 Willet Krav1t1. 10:00 p.m. In SS 016. R. P.l.. I roy. $2.90, 270-6503. Street, Albany. 434-1703. Sweet Charity, R PI Players. ~:30 p.m .. 15th Street Lounge, RPI Trov. $2.00. 270-6503. G~nhill Road, X:30 p.m .. Motht:r\ Wint: hnponum. R Pl. I ro). 270-6o25. \\arsit) (;olf, t·mou ''· l\ttct Collt:gt:. ·\\\a\. \\ arsil) Ba .. eball. l 111,111 1\ ,\lh<tn~ St.tt~ l nllt:r,Jtl. I flO p lll \IIi!\ Rugh~, l lllllll ·,, <..,tl'll.t ( tllll\).!t:. 1.111) pIlL. \11~1\ Junior \ ar.,it~ l.acro.,..,e, l lllllll '·\' ~\la~.:u~.r.. I :H\CI\!~>- 1 _\(I r.1n. \11.1\ \\omen·~ l.aao-.,e. l n 1' \fl '\ llartv. 1d <. \nllq!c 2 \1\1 r m . l.1hr<tn l :dd i· il~ ( ommittre pre'>e.,nh: .. , h.: ·\prt<:ntJC.:~tnp <ll Dudd1 1\ra\ltl ... 'tJO. lJ 15. 11.30 p m. Ill ss oto. Sweet Charih, Ri'l Pla)-t:r~. X:JO p.m.. 15th. ~tn:d I oungt:. I{ Pl. I rny. S2.00. 270-6503 Sunday, April i 8 Film Committee Presents: \I he Apprenticeship of Duddy Kravit1,\ 7:00. 9:15. 11:30 p.m. in SSOI6. Jack Wilkins Quartet, g p.m., Ramada Inn, 450 :'-Jott Street, Schenectady. 3 70-7175. Athletics status viewed Continued frum Page 1 competition for teams is banned if a tournament extends more than seven days beyond the Saturday of the final week of competition. There is no restriction on post- season competition for individual performers such as those participating in All-Star games. According to NESCAC guidelines a coach is not allowed to visit prospective students at their homes or otherwise seek private interviews with them. \This policy hurts our recruiting program while benefiting places such as Williams which have an alumni system set up to handle this situation,\ states Allison. He went on to say tf1-at direct recruiting would greatly aid our \excellent coaching staff.\ These problems have forced the Athletic Task Force to seriously consider whether or not Union should remain a member of NESCAC. Allison did say \The situation now is much better than it was two years ago but it is still not that good.\ No alternate Athletic organization has yet been investigated to replace NESCAC according to Allison. Coach Allison, along with the rest of the force, has been investigating an indoor recreation center. He has taken into account the impact of Achilles Rink and the effects of Title IX on the athletic program. \A .new. complex such as this would encourage many students to use athletic facilities who are now intimidated by the present gym,\ mentioned Coach Allison. With an improvement of the present offering of the Athletic Department, Allison hopes the school will return to require9 gym. This would allow him to develop a very comprehensive program. A series of seminars taught by many different people could be given if Allison could guarantee the instructors full attendance. Arts Department chairman Hugh Allen Wilson, a Task Force member, feels that funding for this complex will not compete with funding for an Arts Building. Wilson definitely sees a need for an athletic complex but is afraid the school might emphasize athletics over academics which would hurt the school in the long run. Wilson said \both the Arts Complex and Athletic Complex have equal practical need but in the long run the Arts will be more beneficial to the College.\ Representatives from the Task Force will hold evening hearings to allow concerned members of the College Community to present their opinions and discuss the development of Union's intercollegiate sports program. These hearings will begin next week. Times and locations will be announced. If anyone wishes to submit a written statement, please forward it to the Athletic Committee in care of Prof. Elizabeth Mansfield m the Humanities Building. THE MEMBERSHIP OF NESCAC Amherst Bates Bowdoin Colby Hamilton Middlebury Trinity Tufts Union Wesleyan Williams How to build a college intamous misnomer is that it was a portent of the peace that would be consummated by 9ener~l George Armstrong Electnc. It IS little wonder that this story was squashed tor so many years. Another theory is that Sy Gar Gompers, Samuel Uompers' great grandfather, rolled his lirst cigar in this area while trying to organi1e student labor. I his position r:, oren to attack on the qut:stionahle Is~uc nl Indian lahor and \lhv a ~1nuk.c1 like (iompcr> laded ·t, ,·ornet thL' pc:otl' mark d. 1\ l11tll\l' I Llh k h\ pot h~\>h I\ dcn\cd lnnn tho: lkptcttPn ,,1 tilt: \chool a' a lnHlt lor t h.: :\. \1.·\ I ra\t:llilg tlll:<l~ll!lP under ,u...-il an lll<Hk' lldlllC. liP <lfll.\ \\t~Uid gt\<' lllll '>lllUCIIh <!11\ thuugllt (It: .. llll Clllllpt\lllloll '-,Jhotagl·. PI hP111h Continued from Page 7 scares) ~ until they saw \Union\ T-shirts in the operating room. It was to perpetuate this front that the term \liberal arts\ was invented and employed then a novel form of study which served as a pleasant euphemism for pre- med. Ibis label stuck until fair!~ rccentlv when the eloseb were so full that thcv burst. expelling pre- meds anx io.us to secure full rights tor two conscnting adults to ..,pend tht: mght m thr hhrary together. I he last lallal'\ I I>.!Htld like !P takl' ts.,uc 1\tth ;, I h,: claun that tht: ll.llll~ \I Ilion\ v.a~ ~l.'lccteJ a' a rcprc~l'Jlldltt'll 111 tht: untqut• ~l'nilar 111 ,,: thl· \-L\htlot 1 h\ 1' tht• 111•\1 olUti •. mdl,t\ P'\Ltlutl •'I them .ilL ·\11\ il'-lllte nh~l'l\l'l\ .:uuld t\i'tl\ dl,lt'l\ll \\ hc·rc· the kttc'h .l'<llll .. \\t'lt' IL'Jlltl\ cl! lf(\111 the unsuspecting remnants lett on the main gate (surely you condered whv we have two chapels). Thi; delinquency w~s attributed to the (then active) Schenectadv taction of the J D L some time In the later hall L)f the 19th centurv. I ht: school's illusion of seculaniv v.as maintamed hy Jt..,,t:xdu.,io~ nl allrwn-cancasians how man:. lllln-)!<'Ys v.crc there annmd hne t nr c\l\ll nn I Pll)! (iu\land\ hac\- tht:n\' i he truth Ill the :ll.!ttcr I' tlut the u.lllll' \l nwn\ 1, -.Jlllfll' .J!i ;1ht:11 a t1nn ,,, tb\ l ;1).!! t,f~ l.m).!ll •. t).!l'. J.ttHloltnil ,,·kdL\c! :,,, Ill' h\~l(.\di IL~a,llll l hl•r~,: h.t \\. 11L\L'I1 IJ\,Jlll .ltlt'lll!'h .11 ,·iJ.IIl).!ill_l.' thc· ll.llliL' hut .til ''' II•• .1,.11; ltlc\ ,,nil 'l'lt-.lbk 111111!~ kt; ,, r.·. :1~<'\. lhl' ,d,,,,,: t,, '.c\\\ .1,·:'<'1

Page 10 Applications are available in Admissions Office for Gatesmen. The Gatesmen is the honorary group of students serving the Admissions Office by giving campus tours to visiting applicants and parents .. Senior Gatesmen also assist the Ad. Office by interviewing applicants, Applications should be returned by Friday, April 16. Interviews will be held later in Spring. elf you have any questions please contact Lisa Tietz at 372-0804 or Box 1757. Anyone interested in working on next year's Freshman Orientation in any capacity - advising, writing and typing, working on the Freshman Record, or whatever ~ sign up this w~k in Student Activities with Mrs. Marra. We need lots of people who are willing to work hard, so sign up now. All elubs and organization§ desiring a room in the College Center for the school year 1976-77 must fill out an application. These applications and a copy of the guidelines will be available in Mrs. Marra's office. All applications are due in no later than April 16th. The Conservation Society of Southern Vermont is looking for people with bttckgrounds or well- developed interests in the natural sciences for summer employment in a Summer Conservation School for Children. Anyone wishing to apply for a position should have had some prior camping experience. For more infonnation, come to the 'Placement Office. ·. CONCORDIENSIS, Wednesday; Aprl'/14, 1976' The Classifieds Page of the New CONCORDIENSIS .is primarily a. student service· as such all m~terial submitted will be published FREE of charge. To insure that the items ~ubmitted' are · prmted, all copy MUST be in by Monday at 3:00 PM. Items to be repeated must have the · number of runs specified. The Union College CONCORDIENSIS assumes no responsibility for · typographical. errors, but will print a comrecfion. If you want. a ride, or you have something to sell, or you s1mply want to see something of yoqr own printed up in a major world ,publication, · PLE~SE, d?n't hesitate! This is a FREE service, so take advantage of it. If you wish to submit • materud which conforms to the format of the Classifieds Page, simply slip it under the Concordy Office door (3rd ftoor Camee.ie).or give to Hope Fabian at Richmond lOS. · The music workshop will resume on the U rtion College campus on April 25. It will be a workshop devoted te folk music in all of its styles - traditional, ballads, blues, ragtime and contemporary. It will also feature demonstrations and instruction on the guitar, the banjo, the mandolin, the piano, the bass .and the harmonica. In residence will be Jim Shorser, Stephen Grayman. Ruth Rappaport, and Leslie Goldstein sharing their tunes and. listening to yours. So all of you who may be aspiring musicians on any level or m!lybe just want to -swap a song or two, bring your instruments and join us in Old Chapel this Sunday and every Sunday from 3·5 in the afternoon. PleiiSe contact Norm Walbeck if you are interested in .participating in or helping run the INS simulation this term. It will be run on May 14, 15, 16. Btb Annual Sigma Cbi Spring Clambake, May 8th from 3-6. Free Jtdmission to Band Party with purchase of clambake ticket or $1.00 at door. Band/Concert featuring ••Exitus and the Pied Pipers,\ good Disco band, 9-1 A.M. Tickets: month' of April, $3.50; month of May, $4.00; at door.. $4.50. Transportation provided to .and Jrom Girling Center. The Capital Area Marine Corps Reserve will be recruiting in Carnegie Hall 'On Tuesday, April 20, at 11;30 a.m.-1:00 p.m. for an abbreviated . program with the Marines that would allow students to go to boot camp in the summer and return to school in the fall American Future System will be interviewing for summer jobs in the placement office on Monday, April 19, 1976. Sign-ups are in the placement office. Any faeulty or staff Qtember interested in working at any Cabaret (Thurs. nights). please contact Mrs. Marra at the Student Activities Office (6118). Anyone interested in · joining an Assertiveness Training WQrkshop (limited to ten women only) contact Teri Frey, 393-7600 (evenings only), or Michelle Aronson, 370-66:70, by Friday, April 16th. Books m contemporary philosophy, psycholou and &enerttl' English · for sale at lO.l5e. Call 3702304 Psychology 24: Social Psychology books; call Lenny 6720. Books with. no highlighting: I, Math 18, $3.50; 2, Math 12, 14, $9.50; 3, C.S. 14E, $7.00; 4, Stat 10, $1 LOO; 5, Eco 10 (Mansfield), $3.00; Ric: 403 West 346-9491. Teac Cassette Dedi and 32 c~90's 'for sale. See Tim at 3.63 K.A. For sale: 1974 Red Opel Manta in eJ{cellent condition with AM/·FM radio, low mileage and rear window defogger. $3,100.00. Call372-168l. · Kawasaki - HlOcc for sale, only 450 miles, like brand new. Call Huseyin 372-1810, must sell. For sale: 1971 VW Bug - eJ{cellent body and running condition. New muffler. valves, tires. Call 274-3672 ' eves. and weekends. Ster~ Cassette Deeks for sale: Teac- 160, high quality recordings; Dolby system, full features, $150;00, ·retails $279 new, only 9 months old (~ yr. warranty). Panasonic Cassette Deck, goOd recording on most systems at a lower price. One year old, retails $149 new. selling for $50Jl0, will dicker. Call Elven or Kevin at 346-9582. TD'DAY'S. IID:SSIDID PUIZ,LI Fundamentals of Financial Accountin& by: Welsh and Anthony. Contact Sandy at 372-0172 (Fiji). Tb:ed of watching aU your favorite TV shootouts, cartoons, soap operas and stock car races in dull and unexciting black and white? Why not get thoroughly addicted? We are looking to sell our 8 month old 19 inch G. E. color portable to any lucky P.erson· who makes the right bid. If you are interested, please call 346- 6653, so that you can make aQangements to see the .product in action. Oh yes, .please don't call during any great T.V. spectacular, like Star Trek or the Six O?Clock · Sports Report with Rip Rowan as we ACROSS 1 Young whale 5 Become·void 10 Relinquish 14 Spiced meat stew 15 \Broken ......... '' 16 Bovine animals 17 Formof chalcedony 19 Diffuse 20 Outlaw 21 Wide's part- ner 22 Roman god 23 Putoff 25 Former Fr. coin 26 Innocent person 30 Roman Pluto 31 Expresses derision 34 Ancient Greek coins 36 Necktie ' 38 Coarse In- dian fabric 39 D9J.!ble citi- zenship: 2 words 42 Adjective suffix 43 Burning for insurance 44 Tangle 45 Wilderness 47 Bird's beak 49 Had reality 50 Plumbing fit- ting 51 Artist's tri· pod 53 Hillside: Scot. 55 The whole of 56 Hockey play· er: Informal 61 Balustrade 62 Pledge to do something 64 Skin problem 65 Once more 66 Deserve 67 ---·egg 68 looks after 69 New York's ---- Stadium DOWN 1 Baseballer- Tv 2 ····breve: 2(}.time 3 Vancouver or Detroit foot- baller 4 Bread, e.g. 5 Continued to survive 6 Branch of learning 7 Doctoror lawyer: 2 words Last ieek~s il•zzle/selre~~ TA F T .1 El P I C Rl. M 0 N I B A R. IRIU S,H EK I L E L 0 .N E E A G L E F E N 0 S E D G'E ;Jt ~s e 'E ID I N IE -s IS R E S T up S P E .L T 0 PTA L 8 l I T H .E ,!,J!.S A RAIN H:!¥ 8 D OIRII S ~f.!~ A D U T MIAINI ·f£. P E T A R D N OIN E . C 0 I. N S I T E S N I G H T G E A 'R S T 0 R H A W A I T S T A T E L I N IE if A I N E Tl T 0 E R I A A S T E R S N A p S E E R 8 Detecting 37 Ice cream apparatus units 9 Wide-mouth- 40 Man's nick- edjug name 10 The universe 41 Jurispru- 11 Thorough dence 12 Bambi, for 46 Grommet one 48 Initiates 13 Concludes 51 Encomium 18 Accomplish- 52 Fate ed 53 Cereal husk '24 Orders 54 Lineage 25 Ravi's forte 55 \Room to 26 Foretold swing----\ 27 Treat badly 57 Actor Leon 28 Petty officers 29 .Letter 5B Jacob's wife 31 Word of en- 59 In the case dearment of: 2 words 32 Diner 60 Italian moun- 33 Vogue tain t35 Trapping de- 63 Centralloca· vice · tion: prefix History e9 or CEP 137: Western Imperialism .... 1, Belgian Congo $1.00; 2, British India $1.00; 3. European Society in Upheaval $5.00; 4, History of South Africa $2:50; 5, In Search of S.E. Asia $6J)0; 6, Nat. -Rev. in Indoneisa $2.50; All books $15.00 See John or Jerry, N207 (opposite M.E. Lab in Steinmetz). lf not there, leave name, room, phone. Matb - College Calculus with Analytic Geometry, Protter and Morrey; Elementary Linear Algebra, K()lman; Intro to Ordinary Differential Equations, Ross; Accounting, Managerial Accounting, Moore and Jaedicke; Spanish, Spanish Conversational Review Granuner, Hesse and . Orjuela; Excellent condition; call 370-6425. FE ll: Sociology (half price - in good condition with some highlighting); l, Tally's Corner, Elliot Liebow $1.40; 2,. Deviants, J.L. Simmoms $1.50; Contact Terry at Webster House(l07) 370-6445. FE 10: BiJI of Rights (4 required paperbacks), 1, Talks .on American Law; 2, The Liberties of an American; 3, Freedom and the Court; 4, Basic Criminal Proceedings; Worth over $18, will sell for $15, books like new; Terry 370-6527. lntro to Physiological Psyebology, Beatty; contact Sheri, 313 Fox; 370- 6509. PSY 10: lntro to Psychology; 1, Psychology in Progress, $4, save $2.25; 2, Learning $2.50, save $1.50; 3, A Primer of Reudian Psychology 50¢, save 75¢; 4, How to Study, $2, save $2; call374-3600. FE 61: Maps and Map Making; I, Maps and Man, Thrower; 2, Principles of Cartography, Raisz; Good condition, $6 together; call Andy 370-6753. Political Science ll with Walbeck; 1, International Relations on the Planet Earth; 2, Peace and the War Ind~stry; contact Sheri; 313 Fox 370- 6509. FE 27 Books: 1, Dorson, America in Legend; 2, Thompson, N.Y.S. folktales, legends and ballads; call Dave at 370-6543. FE 27 Books: I, ·Thompson $2.00; 2, Dorson, $3.00; Contact John Testa; Rm. 323 Davidson. . are in deep meditative bliss at these times. Lookin& to buy or borrow - Physics for the Life Sciences by Cromer. Call Ken 377-9331. Looking to Buy or borrow - Tradition, volumes I and n by (iade>. Call Hope at 37o-6l48. • - Looking to buy or borrow - Gassan - A handbook of Centemporary Photography- Call372-1979~ Looking to buy or borrow Theories of Personalities books Call 393-2203. New Frye boots for sllle: Men's size 8Y.zD, Brown, excellent condition. Reason for selling: too small. Cost $55 new, would like $40 b\lt will consider other offers. Call John at 346-6548. For sale: 1966 Pontiac LeMans, garage kept, exeellent running condition. 5400 or best offer. Call Joe 370·6411. \. For Sale: Fiat 124 - Spider Convertible '74 (Yellow) with 45,0()0 miles. Good condition. $2,800. Call 370-6550. For sale: Stereos, 2 great aeals. 1) Pioneer ·sA-737, Dual 1228 with Empire 200E/ Ill· Cartridge, Cerwin Vega model 214 speakers. Speakers are incredibly efficient and super loud, making system a great deal for $700. 9 months old, perfect condition. 2) Realistic ST A-80 amp (22 watts/ ch.) Garrard 82 changer with Pickering cartridge and JBL 26 Decade speakers. Good system, the JBL's alone make it worth the low price Qf $475. Call Bill at 346~8549 anytime. Wanted: Back Pack with interior frame. Call 372-6010. · For sale:. Apartment furniture in goQf condition. Chairs, tables, sofa. dining room set; and more. Very reasonable, call372-6010. IPTs • Roommate Needed to share beautiful apt. 1 1'2 blocks from campus on Vim' Vranken Ave. Store&, ,laundromat, etc. within one block. Reasonable tent. Call 393-8743. , Wanted for 1976-71 school year - A two bedroom apartment close to campus. lf you are living in. one noW or know of one in the area, please call Cindy or Marjie at 370-6638. ·LOST& FOUND Lost: one woman's bracel~t, tiny solid gold hearts joined together. Please return as . it holds great sentimental value; no questions ... reward. Call 372-1681. Lost: two silver Jiings, 'one is a spoon ring ana the otb,er is p~in. Please call Cheryl at 6474 .. Lost: one silver linked bracelet in vicinity of Sha Na Na concert Thursday night, Great personal value. If found. please contact Wanda, 420 Richnumd, at 346-9545. L.ost: one gold, hoop earring outside Psychology building. If found, please call Lori at 370-6733. Lost: one silver hoop earring. If found. please call,6l40. Lost: Will the individual who took a maroon dowll ski-:iacket from the Pub Friday, April 4th, please return it to Security or c~U 393-8239. Thanks. Ride Needed to Geneva, N.Y. or vicinity on .Friday,. Ap~ii 16. Please call Cheryl at 6474. Ride Wanted to Ithaca, N. Y. or Syracuse on April 23 (afternoon) to April25. Call Dan at 374-7663. Ride Wanted to Williamstown, Mass., Friday or Saturday morning, April 16-17. Will defray costs. Call Bill at 346-8549 anytime. • Ride Wanted to anywher.e iil Pennsylvania or to New York City on Friday, April 23. Please call Steve at 370..6669 or 6688. · Ride Wanted to Burlington, Vt. April 16 after 11:30, will share expenses. Call 370-6610. Many thanks ·to everyone who helped and participated in my adolescent psychology e]!:.periments last term. It was all greatly appreCiated. Copies of the booklet will soon be available at Student Activities. Thanks again ~ Ira. Hey Fuzzy foot! How'd --you break your toe? Sliding in the ·hall? from Jim Kirk Jeff.- Keller - Why were you at the BSA dance at Russell Sage last Friday? Winner of the Dave DiMarcn , look·alike contest is Sumo ·Carbatti t r

Page 10 . CONCORDIENS/S, Wednesday, Apri/14, 1976 Classlfleds ... .. ~ ... '• . ' ·. . . . . . ,: . . · ... ·.. . -. ~.. . . . . . . . .. . . .. . . : . . . ·. . . . ·. . . . . . . . . . . ' .. Applications are available m Admissions Office for Gatesmen. The Gatesmen is the honorary group of students serving the Admissions Office by giving campus tours to visiting applicants and parents. Senior Gatesmen also assist the Ad. Office by interviewing applicants. Applications should be returned by Friday, April 16. Interviews will be held later in Spring. If you have any questions please contact Lisa Tietz at 372-0804 or Box 1757. Anyone interested in working on next year's Freshman Orientation in any capacity - advising, writing and typing, working on the Freshman Record, or whatever - sign up this week in Student Activities with Mrs. Marra. We need lots of people who are willing to work hard, so sign up now. All clubs and organizations desiring a room in the College Center for the school year 1976-77 must fill out an application. These applications and a copy of the guidelines will be available in Mrs. Marra's office. All applications are due in no later than April 16th. The Conservation Society of Southern Vermont is looking for people with backgrounds or well· developed interests in the natural sciences for summer employment in a Summer Conservation School for Children. Anyone wishing to apply for a position should have had some prior camping experience. For more information, come to the Placement Office. The Classifieds Page of the New CONCORDIENSIS is primarily a student service; as such, all material submitted will be published FREE of charge. To insure that the items submitted are printed, all copy MUST be in by Monday at 8:00 PM. Items to be repeated must have the number of runs specified. The Union College CONCORDIENSIS assumes no responsibi1ity for typographical errors, but will print a correction. If you want a ride, or you have something to sell, or you simply want to see something of your own printed up in a major world publication, PLEASE, don't hesitate! This is a FREE sei'vice, so take advantage of it. If you wish to submit material which conforms to the format of the Classifieds Page, simply slip it under the Concordy Office door (3rd floor Carnegie·) or give to Hope Fabian at Richmond 1:05. The music workshop will resume on the Union College campus on April 25. It will be a workshop devoted to folk music in all of its styles - traditional, ballads, blues, ragtime and contemperary. It will also feature demonstrations and instruction on the guitar, the banjo, the mandolin, the piano, the bass and the harmonica. In residence will be Jim Shorser, Stephen Grayman, Ruth Rappaport, and Leslie Goldstein sharing their tunes and listening to yours. So all of you who may be aspiring musicians on any level or maybe just want to swap a song or two, bring your instruments and join us in Old Chapel this Sunday and every Sunday from 3-5 in the afternoon. Please contact Norm Walbeck if you are interested in participating in or helping run the INS simulation this term. It will be run on May 14, 15, 16. 8th Annual Sigma Chi Spring Clambake, May 8th from 3-6. Free admission to Band Party with purchase of clambake ticket or $1.00 at door. Band/Concert featuring \Exitus and the Pied Pipers,\ good Disco band, 9-1 A.M. Tickets: month of April, $3.50; month of May, $4.00; at door, $4.50. Transportation provided to and from Girling Center. The Capital A~ea Marine Corps Reserve will be recruiting in Carnegie Hall on Tuesday, April 20, at 11:30 a.m.-1:00 p.m. fer a11 abbreviated program with the Marines that would allow students to go to boot camp in the summer and return to school in the fall. American Future System wil'l be interviewing fer summer jobs in the placement office on Monday, April 19, 1976. Sign-ups are in the placement office. Any faculty or staff member interested in working at any Cabaret (Thurs. nights), please contact Mrs. Marra at the Student Activities Office (6118). Anyone interested in joining an Assertiveness Training Workshop (limited to ten women only) contact Teri Frey, 393-7600 (evenings only), or Michelle Aronson, 370-6670, by Friday, April 16th. FOR SALE Books In contemporary philosophy, psychology and general English for sale at 10-15c:. Call 3702304 Psychology 24: Social Psychology books; call Lenny 6720. Books with no highlighting: I, Math 18, $3.50; 2, Math 12, 14, $9.50; 3, C.S. 14E, $7.00; 4, Stat 10, $11.00; 5, Eco 10 (Mansfield), $3.00; Ric: 403 West 346-9491. Teac Cassette Deck and 32 C-90's for sale. See Tim at 363 K.A. For Slllle: 1974 Red Opel Manta in excellent condition with AM/ FM radio, low mileage and rear window defogger. $3,100.00. Cal1372-l681. Kawasaki - lOOcc for sale, only 450 miles, like brand new. Call Huseyin 372-1810, must sell. For sale: 1971 VW Bug - excellent body and running condition. New muffler, valves, tires. Call 274-36 72 eves. and weekends. Stereo Cassette Decks for sale: Teac- 160, high quality recordings; Dolby system, full features, $150.00, retails $279 new, only 9 months old (2 yr. warranty). Panasonic Cassette Deck, good recording on most systems at a lower price. One year old, retails $149 new, selling for $50.00, will dicker. Call Elven or Kevin at 346-9582. TUDAY'S CIDSSIDRD PUZZLI Fundamentals of Financial Accounting by Welsh and Anthony. Contact Sandy at 372-0172 (Fiji). Tired of watching all your favorite TV shootouts, cartoons, soap operas and stock car races in dull and unexciting black and white? Why not get thoroughly addicted? We are looking to sell our 8 month old 19 inch G.E. color portable to any lucky person who makes the right bid. If you are interested, please call 346- 6653, so that you can make arrangements to see the product in action. Oh yes, please don't call during any great T.V. spectacular, like Star Trek or the Six O'Clock Sports Report with Rip Rowan as we are in deep meditative bliss at these times. 123 ACROSS 1 Young whale 5 Becomtfvoid 10 Relinquish 14 Spiced meat stew 15 \Broken 16 Bovine animals 17 Form of chalcedony 19 Diffuse 20 Outlaw 21 Wide's part· ner 22 Romangod 23 Put off 25 Former Fr. coin 26 Innocent person 30 Roman Pluto 31 Expresses derision 34 Ancient Greek coins 36 Necktie 38 Coarse In· dian fabric 39 Double citi· zenship: 2 words 42 Adjective suffix 43 Burning for insurance 44 Tangle 45 Wilderness 47 Bird's beak 49 Had reality 50 Plumbing fit- ting 51 Artist's tri- pod 53 Hillside: Scot. 55 The whole of 56 Hockey play- er: Informal 61 Balustrade 62 Pledge to do something 64 Skin problem 65 Once more 66 Deserve 67 ···-egg 68 Looks after 69 New York's ---- Stadium DOWN 1 Baseballer Ty 2 ···· breve: 2/2 time 3 Vancouver or Detroit foot- bailer 4 Bread, e.g. 5 Continued to survive 6 Branch of learning 7 Doctor or lawyer: 2 words Last w.eers •nzz18t stiJe-d: T A F T I El P I C R A M 0 N I 8 A R I Rl U S H E M I l E \\'II\ E 0 G E R S E E 0 I N E S S R E S T U P S P E L T 0 PIA L 8 L I T H E A D A P T II 0 N 5 5 A R ~~ TUB DOIRliS 0~~ A 0 U T M NIH A N 0 P E T A R 0 N O_l_N E c 0 I N S T I T E S N I G H T G E A R S T 0 R H A W A I T S T A T E L I N E P A I N E T I TIO I E R I A A S T E R S N AlP I S E E R 8 Detecting 37 Ice cream apparatus units 9 Wide-mouth· 40 Man's nick- edjug name 10 The universe 41 Jurispru· 1 1 Thorough dence 12 Bambi, for 46 Grommet one 48 Initiates 13 Concludes 51 Encomium 18 Accomplish· 52 Fate ed 53 Cereal husk 24 Orders 54 Lineage 25 Ravi's forte 55 \Room to 26 Foretold swing----\ 27 Treat badly 57 Actor Leon 28 Petty officers 29 Letter 31 Word of en- dearment 32 Diner 33 Vogue 35 Trapping de· vice 58 Jacob's wife 59 In the case of:2 words 60 Italian moun- tain 63 Centralloca· tion: prefix History 1:9 or CEP 137: Western Imperialism - 1, Belgian Congo $1.00; 2, British India $1.00; 3. European Society in Upheaval $5.00; 4, History of South Africa $2.50; 5, In Search of S.E. Asia $6.00; 6, Nat. - Rev. in Indoneisa $2.50. All books $15.00 See John or Jerry, N207 (opposite M.E. Lab in Steinmetz). If not there, leave name, room, phone. Math - College Calculus with Analytic Geometry, Protter and Morrey; Elementary Linear Algebra, Kolman; ln tro to 0 rd inary Differential Equations, Ross; Accounting, Managerial Accounting, Moore and Jaedicke; Spanish, Spanish Conversational Review Grammer, Hesse and Orjuela; Excellent condition; call 370-6425. FE 22: Sociology (half price - in good condition with some highlighting); 1, Tally's Corner, Elliot Licbow $1.40; 2, Deviants, J.L. Simmoms $1.50; Contact Terry at Webster House (107) 370-6445. FE 10: Bill of Rights (4 required paperbacks), 1, Talks on American Law; 2, Tile Liberties of an American; 3, Freedom and the Court; 4, Basic Criminal Proceedings; Worth over $18, will sell for $15, books like new; Terry 370-6527. lntro to Physiological Psychology, Beatty; contact Sheri, 313 Fox; 370- 6509. PSY 10: lntro to Psychology; I, Psychology in Progress, $4, save $2.25; 2, Learning $2.50, save $1.50; 3, A Primer of Reudian Psychology 50ct, save 75¢; 4, How to Study, $2, save $2; call374-3600. FE 61: Maps and Map Making; I, Maps and Man, Thrower; 2, Principles of Cartography, Raisz; Good condition, $6 together; call Andy 370-6753. Political Science 12 with Wal beck; I, International Relations on the Planet Earth; 2, Peace and the War Industry; contact Shen; 313 rox 370- 6509. J•.E 27 Books: I, Donon, America in Legend; 2, Thompson, N.Y.S. folktales, legends and ballads; call Dave at 370-6543. FE 27 Books: I. Thompson $2.00; 2, Dorson, $3.00; Contact John Testa; Rm. 323 Davidson. Looking to buy or borrow - Physics for the Life Sciences by Cromer. Call Ken 377-9331. Looking to Buy or borrow - Tradition, volumes I and II by Gada. Call Hope at 370-6148. · Looking to buy or borrow - Gassan - A handbook of Contemporary Photography- Call372-l979. Looking to buy or borrow Theories of Personalities books Call 393-2203. New Frye boots for sale: Men's size 8\-1D, Brown, excellent condition. Reason for selling: too small. Cost $55 new, would like $40 but will consider other offers. Call John at 346-6548. For sale: 19(;6 Pontiac LeMans, garage kept, excellent running condition. $400 or best offer. Call Joe 370-6411. « For Sale: Fiat 124 Spider Convertible '74 (Yellow) with 45,000 miles. Good condition. $2,800. Call 370-6550. For sale: Stereos, 2 great deals. 1) Pioneer SA-737, Dual 1228 with Empire 200E;lll Cartridge, Cerwin Vega model 214 speakers. Speakers are incredibly efficient and super loud, making system a great deal for $700. 9 months old, perfect condition. 2) Realistic STA-80 amp (22 watts/ ch.) Garrard 82 changer with Pickering cartridge and JBL 26 Decade speakers. Good system, the JBL's alone make it worth the low price of $475. Call Bill at 346-8549 anytime. Wanted: Back Pack with interior frame. Call 372-6010. For sale: Apartment furn1ture in goof condition. Chairs, tables, sofa, dining room set; and more. Very reasonable, call 372-6010. a Roommate Needed to share beautiful apt. l Y2 blocks from campus on Van Vranken Ave. Stores, laundromat, etc. within one block. Reasonable rent. Call 393-8743. Wanted for 1976-77 school year - A two bedroom a'partment close to campus. If you are living in one now or know of one in the area, please call Cindy or Marjie at 370-6638. LOST& FOUND Lost: ene woman's bracelet, tiny solid gold hearts joined together. Please return as it holds great sentimental value; no questions ... reward. Call 372-1681. Lost: two silver rings, one is a spoon ring and the other is plain. Please call Cheryl at 6474. Lost: one silver linked bracelet in vicinity of Sha Na Na concert Thursday night, Great personal value. If found, please contact Wanda, 420 Richmond, at 346-9545. LGSt: one gold, hoop earring outside Psychology building. If found, please call Lori at 370-6733. LGSt: one silver hoop earring. If found, please call 6140. Lost: Will the individual who took a maroon down ski-jacket from the Pub Friday, April 4th, please return it to Security or call 393-8239. Thanks. illS Ride Needed to Geneva, N.Y. or vicinity on Friday, Apnl 16. Please call Cheryl at 6474. Ride Wanted to Ithaca, N . Y. or Syracuse on April 23 (afternoon) to April25. Call Dan at 374-7663. Ride Wanted to Williamstown, Mass., Friday or Saturday morning, April 16-17. Will defray costs. Call Bill at 346-8549 anytime. Ride Wanted to anywhere in Pennsylvania or to New York City on Friday, April 23. Please call Steve at 370-6669 or 6688. Ride Wanted to Burlington, Vt. April 16 after Il:30, will share expenses. Call370-6610. ' Many thanks to everyone who helped and participated in my adolescent psychology experiments last term. It was all greatly appreciated. Copies of the booklet will soon be available at Student Activities. Thanks again - Ira. Hey Fuzzy foot! How'd you break your toe? Sliding in the hall? from Jim Kirk Jeff Keller - Why were you at the BSA dance at Russell Sage last Friday? Winner of the Dave DiMarco look-alike contest is Sumo Carbatti ·~, '

• • (ul, an at, ble A to ow 1se • >lid :ase 1tal :au )On call m cert mal tact 5. >ide ~ase If 'k a the :urn Z39. - . or lease . or 1) to >wn, ning; Call in :yon ve at 1\pril :nses. elped :scent m. It ies of •le at 1n ~ ueak from t the last CONCORVIENSIS, Wednesday, Apri/14, !976 Page 11 --~~----~--------------------------------------~-- Freshman Chuck Hoffman's stockings jell with the score as Union bowed to the Engineers in the season home opener. Glee club Continued from Page S the Temple Gates of Heaven on May 21st. The women will be accompanied by the Cantor of the temple fit this function. The final concert for this year will be held on the_ .. t\~eV.JY;S.~z<:th .Qf -~.!lY at 8 p.m. in Memorfal Chapel.. · This year's haraworking officers are Elaine Knickmeyer, President; Nina Feltman, treas1,i.rer; - ~n,d K;atie . hlolliste~, librarian. Next year's recent!)' elected officers are Laura Masailo, p.resident; Lynne Bo lstead, librarian; Cindy Howell, concert .manager; Jackie Maz~a. treasurer; and publicity manager Leslie Rugg assisted by Melinda· Meside. Arr the future officers are anxious to continue the rapid growth and :~ticc;e~s of Union Coll~ge's women's glee club, · · .. ~· ... Tenn.is bows to R .P.I. This past Saturday afternoon, the netmen of Union tool\ on the .. calculating'; tennis squad of R.P.I. The crowd witnessed a ciosely fought match which came down to the last set - in which Union lost. The final score: R.P.l. 5, Union 4 . Union's netrnen split the singles matches by winning three. Second singles playe[, Captain Steve Marcus, played some .impressive. tennis while defeating his by MASON B_ GOMBERG opponent: 7-6, 6-4. In a tough li~st singles match, Dennis undenberg lost 6~2. 7-6. The third singles match pitted two SI)Uthpaws against each other-ala .C.onnors-Laver. Rolf Lipton from ,U.nion defeated his opponent 5-7, .~ .. 2, 7-6. Paul Wantuck, playing ~th singles defeated his victim, 6- 2, 7-5. Chuck Hoffman (4th) and Andy Wiessen (6th) both were 'defeated in their singles matches. .R.~.I. took the- match by wmmng two of three doubles events. Victors in their effort was the team of Marcus-Wantuck· who tied the match at 4-4, by winning 6-2, 0-6, 6-3. The teams of Lipton-Lindenberg and Hoffman-Lippman Were defeated (7-6, 3:6, 6-1) and (6-4, 6-7, 4-6) respectively. On Thursday April 15, Union will meet Clark at 2 p.m. Hope to see you out there! Girl softba/le.rs practicing the basic technique ofpilferipg a vacant bag. Note: astroturj. ., /. . . . Nott nadir Contifi'uect~ftbm..-•ea~ .7 . I th~ Nott to its original form. Budgetary officers of the College have stated that the: idea seems a little far· fetched, but is basically very economically sound. Probably the most feasible answer to the dilemma has come about through the tenacious negotiating of President Bonner. As you may well know, Emil \The Cat\ Francis has recently resigned from his post as General Manager of the New York Rangers of the N HL. Rumor has it that the reason for this move is that Union College has made Francis a handsome offer to come here aQd coach a team at Union. Francis would be coaching Union's Midget Hockey team. It is reported that Bonner is busily recruiting the lilliputian pucksters from all over the nation. Home ice for the sawed-off skating Dutchmen would be located in, that's right, Achilles Nott. And if all of the ideas mentioned fall through there is still one last ditch solution. An anonymous student has made a brilliant suggestion which may well be the \ace in the hole\ to insure the co·ntinued existence of the Nott. The idea is to offer a course through the Arts Department, cross-referenced in the Engineering Department, which would allow students to earn course credit while partici- pating in saving the Nott. What the course would entail is an intense 10 week study of the use of paper mache in structural design. The students would make paper mache forms each day in class. Once their artistic creations are no longer of any use, they would be discarded inside of the Nott. By the end of the term the building should be full of paper mache sculptures and the internal pressure exerted by these objects on the walls of the building should be enough to keep it standing for many years to come. So concerned students of Union College. be patient, the Nott is in good hands. Housing can ·be fun Continued from Page 3 system, opinions and ideas of the student body which . the committee received, and possible alternatives. The decision was based on the following factors: It was determined that the present system was inherently unfair, in that everyone did not have an equal chance for any room on campus. The inequity of the present system opened the way for many abuses. It allowed \dynasties\ to develop in which highly desirable rooms were tied up for years. handed down from roommate to roommate. There were also many possibilities for conniving, such as \moving on paper.\ For instance, an RA reported that on his tloor, out of eight corner suites, six were obtained through illegal means. This compromise was worked out so that no one presently here would be put in a disadvantaged situation. Anyone may claim squatters' rights this year. giving him the chance to stay in his room next year, with the knowledge that at the end of 1976-1977 an open lottery wiU.··be . . held. By that t1me present freshmen and sophomores will be juniors and seniors respectively, and be in an advantaged position in the lottery. The class of 1980 will enter their rooms without expectation of squatting and thus enter an open lottery which will become the accepted system, one which should maximize equality and minimize dissatisfaction.

to Call t in anal tside If ok a the or or to Call in ity on at April It of at - break from the last a reo Freshman Chuck Hoffman's stockings fell with the score as Union bowed to the Engineers in the season home opener. Glee club Continued from Page 5 the Temple Gates of Heaven on May 21st. The women will be accompanied by the Cantor of the temple at this function. The final concert for this year will be held on the twenty-sixth of May at 8 p.m. in Memorial Chapel. This year's hardworking officers are Elaine Knickmeyer, President; Nina Feltman, treasurer; and Katie Hollister, ltbranan. Next year\ recently elected officers are Laura Masailo. president; Lynne Bolstead, librariaH; Cindy Howell. concert manager; Jackie Mazza, treasurer; and publicity manager Leslie R ugg a$sisted by Melinda Meside. All the future officers are anxious to continue the rapid growth and success of Union College's women's glee club. Tennis bows to R.P.I. This past Saturday afternoon, the netmen of Union took on the ·~calculating\ tennis squad of R. P.l. Tl:ie crowd witnessed a closely fought match which came down to the last set - in which Union lost. The final score: R.P.I. 5, Union 4. Union's netmen split the singles matches by winning three. Second singles player, Captain Steve Marcus, played some tmpressive tennis while defeatin.g his by MASON B_ GOMBERG opponent: 7-6, 6-4. In a tough ,first singles match, Dennis Lindenberg lost 6-2, 7-6. The third singles match pitted two southpaws against each other-ala .Connors-Laver. Rolf Lipton from .U.nion defeated his opponent 5-7, .6-2, 7-6. Paul Wantuck, playing ?th singles defeated his victim, 6- 2, 7-5. Chuck Hoffman (4th) and Andy Wiessen (6th) both were 'defeated in their singles matches. R. P.l. took the- match by winning two of three doubles events. Victors in their effort was the team of Marcus-Wantuck· who tied the match at 4-4, by winning 6-2, 0-6, 6-3. The teams of Lipton-Lindenberg and Hoffman-Lippman were defeated (7-6, 3-6, 6-1) and (6-4, 6-7, 4 .. 6) respectively. On Thursday April 15, Union will meet Clark at 2 p.m. Hope to see you out there! Girl softballers practicing the basic technique of pilfering a vacant bag. Note: astroturj: Nott nadir Contirtued ft:om .Page 7 I - -- - the Nott to its original form. Budgetary officers of the College have stated that the idea seems a little far fdched, but is basically very economically sound. Probably the most leasihle answer to the dilemma has come about through the tenacious negotiating of President Bonner. As you may well know, Emil \The Cat\ Francis has recently resigned from his post as General Manager of the New York Rangers ol the N H L. Rumor has it that the reason for this move is that Union College has made Francis a handsome offer to come here and coach a team at Union. Francis would be coaching Union's Midget Hockey team. It is reported that Bonner is busily recruiting the lilliputian pucksters from all over the nation. Home ice tor the sawed-off skating Dutchmen would be located in. that's right, Achilles N ott. And it all of the ideas mentioned tall through there is still one last ditch solution. An anOJ'lymous student has made a brilliant suggestion whtch may well be the \ace in the hole\ to insure the continued existence of the \1 ott. The idea is to oiler a course through the Arts Department. cross-referenced in the Engineering Department, which would allow students to earn course credit while partici- pating in saving the \!ott. What the course would entail is an intense I 0 week study of the use of paper mache in structural design. The students would make paper mache forms each day in class. Once their artistic creations are no longer of any use, they would be discarded inside of the Nott. By the end of the term the building should be full of paper mache sculptures and the internal pressure exerted by these objects on the walls of the building should be enough to keep it standing for many years to come. So concerned students of Union College, be patient, the N ott is in good hands. Housing can be fun Continued from Page 3 system. opinions and ideas of the student body which the committee received, and possible alternatives. The decision was based on the following factors: It was determined that the present system was inherently unfair, in that everyone did not have an equal chance tor any room on campus. Ihe inequity()[ the present system opened the way I or many abuses. It allowed \dynasties\ to develop in which highly desirable rooms were tied up lor years, handed down from roommate to roommate. lhere were also many possibilities tor conntving. such as \movmg on paper.\ For instance. an RA reported that on his 11oor. out of eight corner suites, six \\Cre obtained through illegal means. !his compromise was worked out so that no one presently here would be put in a disadvantaged situation. Anyone may daim squatters' rights this year. gi\ mg him the chance to stay in hts room next year. with the knowledge that at the end ol 1976-1~77 an open lottery wiU·he held. Hy that time present fn.:shmen and sophomores will he juniors and seniors respectivdy. and be in an advantaged positton in the lottery. lhe class of l9XO will enter their rooms without expectation of squatting and thus enter an open lottery which will become the accepted system. one which should maximize equality and minimize dissatisfaction.

Page 12 CONC.QBDIENSJS, Wednesday, Apri/14, 1976 concordy sports Baseballers up The Union Baseball team got off to an inauspicious start this last week as they dropped a slug- fest to Utica 19-11 and tied Colgate 7-7. On Saturday, to be brief, the inexperience of the Garnet pitching staff proved to be Union's downfalL AI Walker, Charlie Flanagan and Jim Monnat gave up 19 taJ!lies to the Utica squad in a game that was characterized by gusting winds and 45° temperatures. Senior co-captain Don Ward ripped Hartwick, scoring four and adding one assist. However, there was a bright spot in the Garnet offense. Senior Co-Captain Don Milder pounded out 3 hits including a triple driving in three runs. The other half of Union's captaincy, John Busterud, collected a single and a double while plating two Dutchmen baserunners. Rookie shortstop Jerry Logan and second year man Dan DeGregory also had two base knockers adding to Union's 13 hit total. Laxmen bombard Hartwick 21- I by NEAL A. SCHWARTZ Union dominated play last Saturday afternoon on Daley field, trouncing Hartwick by a score of 21-1. The outcome was never in doubt from the start; Union led 6-0 after the first period and from then on it was just another practice for the Union stickmen. The ball rarely crossed the midf;eld line, but when Hartwick did have shots on goal, Union's defensemen exhibited excellent clearing abilities. The midfielders did a fine job of keep_ing the ball in Hartwick's territory while those Dutchmen on attack roamed back and forth across the crease and consistently bounced the ball past the Hartwick goalie. Union's attack walked right through the Hartwick defensemen and encountered little difficulty in their scoring endeavors. Coach Bruce Allison in his 19th season as Union coach commented, \We're trying to be more fluid than in the past and get more movement into our attack.\ Union Attackman John Thompson led the scoring with 8 assists and 3 goals, which isn't a bad way to start a season to say the least. Other top scorers were senior Don Ward and sophomore Jed Kanner each with four goals and one assist. Ray Stecker finished Saturday afternoon with three goals and three assists to his credit. In a game where 22 total goals were seen, many other Union athletes deserve recognition for their scoring efforts. Henry Fleming opened the season with two goals and an assist while Stu Napear got one shot past the goalie and was credited, as well, with 3 assists. Jim Felix, John Breault, Mike Deshler, and Jimmy Thompson also scored for Union. The Dutchmen, who were 5-7 last year, took advantage of Hartwick's inability to cover the open area in front of the crease and put the game out of reach in the first period by having six different stickmen account for Union's scoring. In Basketball, the goal m uncontested games is to break 100 points, whereas in Lacrosse the chase for goal #20 is what is viewed as a true accomplishment. The Dutchmen reached their goal with one to spare. Hartwick was losing by a 15-0 score when they scored on a power play with 1:35 left in the 3rd quarter. Senior goalie AI Ritchie stopped II shots while freshman Allan Greenberg had one save for the Garnets. The Dutchmen played well Thinclads look for good season by BILL PECK throl!lghout the game, but the rest of the schedule remaining will not be such a pushover. The Dutchmen are on the road for 3 games, Union played Siena this afternoon, and then the Laxmen will visit nationally ranked Syracuse ( 17th in the University Division) and Williams (14th in the College Division). Then, the pride of Schenectady returns to Daley field on April 24 to meet Middlebury. Score by periods: Hartwick 0 0 I 0 - I Union 6 4 5 6 -21 Women's by DIANA GAZZOLO The UColl Diamond ladies return to their respective field with many alterations. One of the most prominent is the change in the attitude of this year's players, as compared to last year. The girls out this season have a winning attitude, largely because of Coach Weaver's workouts. As all jocks know, winning is the final result of all those Saturday morning practices! We can see this attitude in the players returniRg from last year's roster - Cathy \Hustler\ Reals, Gina Pugliese, Perky Francais, Ronnie Zenkel, Elaine Baldwin and Gwen Young. However, the newcomers to this sport look \Tuff.\ The essential part of the game is well covered; strong pitching, good fielders, and a winning attitude. One point that should be noticed is the players' ability to play all the positions. This is the critical part of the Diamond ladies' season because of their The Garnet's luck changed for seven innings against the Red Raiders of Colgate University. Nursing a 7-2 lead going into the eighth, Union fell victim to a series of mental lapses, committing two costly errors, allowing Colgate to come up with five runs, and sending the Dutchmen home with a disappointing 7-7 tie called due to darkness. Highlighting the Union attack were pitcher Charlie \Catfish\ Flanagan and left-fielder Dan DeGregory. \Catfish\ tantalized the oft befuddled Colgate batters with a vast repertoire of pitches. Dan collected three of the softball small but strong line-up. The season's first game is Thursday, April 15, home at 4:00 p.m. on Library Field. Come out and cheer us on. THIS TEAM LOOKS \TUFF.\ Anyone not doing anything this Saturday at 2 P.M., PJiEASE come out to Librafy Field and watch the Women's Lacrosse Team battle against Hart- wick in the first game of their season. A much improved squad, and excellent weather should prove to make your after- noon of watching them most entertaining. Spectators are important to the girls' morales, so please come watch. Remember - 2 P.M. on Library Field. Be there. Aloha. and down Dutchmen's seven hits and knocked m three runs with a bases loaded double in the fifth inning. On Thursday, Union travels to Siena to start their conquest of the Capital District Baseball Crown. Siena, last year's winner, boasts College Division triple crown winner Gary Holle. If Union can put their resurrected pitching staff together with some timely hitting, it should be quite a game. UNION Milder Gatta DeGregery Borgeese Ruschak Baker Massaroni Logan Busterud Gazzola UNION Gatta Milder DeGregory Borgeese Logan Ruschak Busterud Massaroni Gazzola UNION H UTICA 19 * AB 5 6 R H RBI I 3 3 9 4 e 1 I 7 6 8 6 3 6 DH 3 DH I 6 4 4 5 2 4 UNION 7 COLGATE7 \' AD. I 2 0 I 1 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 2 0 0 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 l I R H RBI 9 5 I 0 0 5 4 2 1 0 7 5 I 3 3 8 5 1 1 I 6 5 0 0 0 3 3 0 I I 4 4 0 0 0 DH 4 I 0 0 2 3 l I 1 Intramural notes Men's Singles Tennis Ladder: A men's single Tennis Ladder conducted for all members of the college community will be held beginning May 3rd. Deadline for entries is April 30th. Entries can be obtained in the Intramural Office or call Bob Driscoll at 370- 6119. Trophies to the first two finishers. Women's Softban Field Day: The first annual softball field day will be held Sunday, April 25th at 1:00 p.m. Entries are due Friday, April 23rd m the Intramural Office. Prizes will be given. Floor Hockey: On Thurs., April t5 at 7:00 p.m. in the Block U Room, there will be an organizational meeting for Floor Hockey teams. Women's teams will meet at !:!:00 p.m. The Garnet Spring track team is now practicing daily and looking forward to a good season. Coming off a strong winter campaign, which saw the Dutchmen capture the New York State Indoor Track Championship, Union has a lot to look forward to. Led by Captain Dave Plumer the Garnet hope for another successful season against such traditional rivals as Rochester, Trinity, Middlebury and Hamilton, as well as Capital Dl' .. tm:t ri\ah. Albany State and Rl'l. lhc higgc~t problem lor lJ mon will be trymg to make up for the loss of Dave Ricks, the all- nn)tlllng trad. flldll, v.ho\ ll\eJ up hi~ cllgihilil) Kick~, who hu\ scored in as many as 6 events in one meet and holds the school's pole vault record, will be sorely missed. quite a few talented track men out for the team, led by Capt. Plumer and Steve Jones, a veteran long distance runner. Milt Herring leads the sprinting corps, and State Indoor 600 champ Bob Moffat will anchor the middle distance runners. Jones will be the premier long distance man, and the Dutchmen can also look forward to solid and speedy relay teams, judging from their performance in the State Indoor Meet. Plumer will lead the JUmper~. Rich :'\:orman will return to handle the ja\clin, and Pete Sherman will head the weightmen. The only soft spot rou!J he depth. v. hne mo\t meet' ..1rc v.un ur lo!-.1. llopdully the Dutchmen will come up with the depth to continue the track team's winning tradition, and if so, it should be a very good year for the track team. John Thompson neatly tallied 3 goals and 8 assists to pace Union's comfortable victory. However, the Garnet does have l ( Peter A by Am< events Parent Fry's Burnir Uni• will b Nott throu! April I at 2 both promi ex per: stude1 direct who i the fi• Lee h Ele Edit CON held the floor regar or st pape Edit a pt thos. parti duri1 eli gil In tl in-( de a< A

. ~ . ' Page 12 CtiJttJ..ifltJ,QIENSIS; Wednesday, Apri/14, 1976 concordy sports Bas:eballers up the Union Baseball team .got off to an .inauspicious .start ,this last week as they dropped a slug- fest lo Utica J9;..U and tied Colgate 7;.,7, On Saturday, to. be btiief, the inexperience of the Garnet pitching staff proved to be Union's downfall. AI Walker, Charlie Flanagan and Jim Monnat ga·ve up 19 taUies to the Utica squad in a game that was characterized by gusting winds and 45° temperatures. ·an.d down Dutchmen's seven hits and knocked in three runs with a bases loaded double in the fifth· inning. On Thursday, Union travels to Siena to start their conquest of the Capital .District Baseball Crown, Siena·, last yeafs winner, boasts College Division triple crown winner Gary Holle. If Union can put their tesurrect~d pitching staff together with some timely hitting, it should be quite a ga·me. Senior co-captain Don Ward ripped Hartwick, scoring jour and adding one assist. However, there was a bright spot in the Garnet offense~ Senior Co-Captain Don Milder pounded out J hits including a triple driving in three runs. ihe other half ol UnioJl~s captaincy,. John Busterud, collected a shtgle and a do:ilble while plating two Dutchmen baserunners. · Rookie shortstop Jerry Logan and second year man Dan DeGregory also bad two base knockers adding t.o Union's l3 hit total. UNION li UTICA 19 Laxmen bombard Hartwick 21·1 by NEAL A. SCHWARTZ· finished Saturday afternoon with three goals and three assists to his. credit. In a game where 22 total goals were seen, many other Union athletes deserve recognition for their scoring efforts. Henry Fleming opened the season with two goals and an assist while Stu Napear got .one shot past the goalie and was credited; as well, with 3 assists. Jim Felix, John Breault, Mike Deshler, and Jimmy Thompson also scored for Union. throughout the game, but the rest of the schedule remaining will not be sl;lch a pushover. The Dutchmen are on the road for 3 games, Union played Siena this afternoon, and then the Laxmen will visit nationally ranked Syracuse (17th in the Universi~y Division) and Williams (14th in the CoHege Division). Then. the pride of Schenectady returns to Daley field on April 24 to meet Middlebury. Score by periods: Hartwick 0 0 I 0 - l Union 6 4 5 6 -21 ine · Garnet's luck changed for seven innings against the Red Raiders of Colgate. University. Nursing a 7-2. lead going into the eightll, Union fell victim to a series ·of mental lapses, committing two costly er.rors, allowing Colgat~ to come up with five runs, and sending the D\ltchmen home with a disappointing 7-7 tie called due to darkness. Highlighting the Union attack were pitcher Charlie \Catfish\ Flanagan and left-fielder Dan DeGregory. \Catfish\ tantalized the oft befuddled Colgate batters with a vast repertoire of pitches. Dan · collected Jhree ~f the UNION Milder Gl\tta DeGregory Borgeese Ruschak Baker Massaroni Logan Busterud Gazzola UNION Gatta Milder D~Gregory Botgeese Logan Ruschak Busterud Massaroni Gazzola 111 AB 5 6 9 4 7 6 8 6 3 6' DH 3 DH 1 6 4 4 5 2 4 UNION7 R. H RBI 1 3 3. o· 1 1 J 2 0 l 1 0 o· 1 <r 0 0 0 2 0 0 2 2 2 2 2 2' 2 l 'I COLGATE7 • AB' R H RBI 9 5 l 0 0 5 4 2 I 0 7 s r 3 3 8 5 1 l 1 6 5 0 0 0 3 3 0 1 I 4 4 0 0 0 DH 4 1 0 0 i 3 I 1 i Union dominated play last Saturday afternoon on Baley field, trouncing Hartwick by a score of 21-1. The outcome was never in doubt from the start; Union led 6-0 after the first period and from then on it was just another practice for the Union stickmen. The ball rarely crossed the midfield line, but when Hartwick did have shots on goal, Union's defensemen exhibited excellent clearing abilities. The midfielders did a fine job of keep_ing the ball in Hartwick's territory while those Dutchmen on attack roamed back and forth across the crease and consistently bounced the ball past the Hartwick goalie. The Dutchmen, who were 5-7 last year, took advantage of Hartwick's inability to cover the open area in front of the crease and put the gaJlle out Qf reach in the first period by having six different stickmen account for Union's scoring. Women's softball Intramural Union's attack walked right through the Hartwick defensemen and encountered little difficulty in their scoring endeavors. Coach Bruce Allison in his 19th season as Union coach commented, .. We're trying to be more fluid than in the past and get more movement into our attack.\ Union Attackman John Thompson led the scoring with 8 assists and 3 goals, which isn't a bad way to start a season to say the least. Other top scorers were senior Don Ward and sophomore Jed Kanner each with four goals and one assist. Ray Stecker In Basketball, the goal in uncontested games is tobreak 100 points, whereas in Lacrosse the chase for goal #20 is what is viewed as a true accomplishment. The Dutchmen reached their goal with one to spare. Hartwick was losing by a 15-0 score when they scored on a power play with I :35 left in the 3rd quarter. Senior goalie AI Ritchie stopped II shots while freshman Allan Greenberg had one save for the Garnets. The Dutchmen played well Thinclads look for good season by BILL PECK The Gamet Spring track team is now practicing daily and looking forward to a good season. Coming off a strong winter campaign, which saw the Dutchmen capture the New York State Indoor Track Championship, Union has a lot to look forward to. Led by Captain Dave Plumer the Garnet hope for another successful season against such traditional rivals as Rochester, Trinity, Middlebury and Hamilton, as well as Capital District rivals, /\lhany State and R Pl. The biggest problem for Union will be trying to make up for the loss of Dave Ricks, the all- everything track man, who's used up hi:. eligibility. Ri~ks, who has scored in as many as 6 events in one meet and holds the school's pole vault record, will be sorely missed. However, the Garnet does have quite a few talented track men out for the team, led by Capt. Plumer and Steve Jones, a veteran long distance runner. Milt Herring leads the sprinting corps; .and State Indoor 600 champ Bob Moffat will anchor the middle distance runners. Jones will be the premier long distance man, and the Dutchmen can also look forward to solid and speedy relay teams, judging from their performance in the State Indoor Meet. Plumer will lead the jumpers. Rich Notinan will return to handle the javelin, and Pete Sherman wi'll head the weightmen. The only soft spot could he depth, where mosi meets arc won or lost. Hopefully the DutchJ;llen will come up with the depth to continue the track team's winning tradition, and if so, it should be a very good year for the track team. by DIANA GAZZOLO The UColl Diamond la~ies return to their respective field with many alterations. One of the most prominent is the change in the attitude of this year's players, as compared to last year. The girls out this season have a winning attitude, largely because of Coach Weaver's workouts. As all jocks know, ,w.im)ing is the final result of aU those Saturday morning practices·! We can see this attitude in the players returnir.tg from last year's roster - Cathy \Hustler\ Reals, Gina Pugliese, Perky Francais, Ronnie Zenkel, Elaine Baldwin and Gwen Young. However, the newcomers to this sport look \Tuff.\ The essential part of the game is well covered; strong pitching, good fielders, and a winning attitude. One point that should be noticed is the players' ability to play all the positions. This is the critical part of the Diamond ladies• season because of their small. bu,t strong iine-up. The $t!ason's first game is Thursday, April 15, home at 4:00 · p.m. on Library Field. Come out and cheer us on. THIS TEAM LOOKS .. TUFF.\ notes Men's Singles Tennis Ladder: A men's single Tennis Ladder conducted for all members of the college community will be held Anyone not . doing · beginning May 3td. Deadline for anything th.is Sat. urday at 2 · entries is April 30th. Entries can be obtained in the Intramural P.M., P~EASE come out .. ()ffice or call Bob Driscoll at 370- · to Libraty .Field and watch_... 6119. ·Trophies to the first two · the Women's Lacrosse finishers. Team battle against Han- . . Women;s Softball 'Field Day: · wick in the first game of The first annual softball field day · · will be held Sunda~. April 25th at their season. A much t·:OO p.rn. Entries are due Friday, improved squad, a·nd Aprit 23rd in . the Intramural · excellent weather should Office. Prizes will be given. prove to make your after- . Floor Hockey: On Thurs.; noon of watching them April 15 at 7;00 p.m. in the Block U Room,. there will be an most entertain inK· (,l.rganizational meeting for Floor · Spedators are irnp()rtant to Hockey teams. Women's teams • the girls; lilorales, so please . will meet at 8:00 (l.m. come watch. Remember .... l P.M. on Library Field. Be there. Aloha. John Thompson neatly tallied 3 goals and 8 assists to pace Union's comfortable victory. c Pete. A by Am events Paren Fry's Bumi Uni will- l Nott throu April I at 2 both prom expe1 stude direc who the fi Lee I El1 Edi co:r- held tbe floo1 r~ga or s papt Edi a p tho! pal1 duri ellgi In J in-t de a ) inv1 alo pol the by p will De a Per1 23rl 117 tea( Rot ma1 No an~ an( an' seri am the wil the

l ' l i l r l 1 { t ' ' I { 1 r s· B =· 0 :11: \' \' ~ \\ Q § 0 c Q. II . '' .u~nJ:On colle.ge' - ... ! Vol. lOS, No. 19 Wednesday, April 21, 1976 • • on cor Iensts .... Prospective students Saturday • arrive As tnany as 1000 prospective Union College students and parents are expected to visit the campus on \Accepted Candidates' Day'' Saturday, April 24. Every candidate accepted to Union and his parents have been invited to the campus to review the opportunities the college has to offer before they determine what college the student will attend next fall. division of the college. \'Prospective college students are asking tougher questions than they used to about the colleges they are considering entering,\ says Jay Shupe, director of admissions. \lhey•re researching their college choices more closely than their predecessors.\ \They've given their futures a lot of thought and want some concrete answers about what the results are going to be,\ Shupe continued. A major factor in the trend, says Shupe, is the national trend toward higher tuitions. Peter Sobol, Gary Ul'y, and Reger Summerhayes toast Parents' Weekend in THE LADY'S NOT FOR BURNING- get tickets for your parents now! \Accepted Candidates Day\ will feature an afte.rnoon ~activities exposition\ in Achilles Rink at which each student and campus group will man booths demonstrating the extra- curricular opportunities which exist at Union. Opportunities offered in the academic program will be discussed in morning presentations made by each The objective of \Accepted Candidates Day,\ said Shupe, \is to give as accurate a picture as possible about what happens on the campus. To help students make decisions, we want to provide them with some insight about what life at Union College is like.\ A romantic drama for the pragmatic ~he schedule for Saturday's events are as follows: by WENQY SO.LQVAY Among the more entertaining eveo.ts scheduled for· .this year's Parents' Weekend is Christopher Fry's play, The Lady's Not For Burning, Union College's Mountebanks will- be. presesnting this show . in Nott Memorial four times throughout the weekend:- Friday, April 30 at 8 p.m., Saturday, May 1 at 2 p.m., and Sunday, May 2 at both 2 p.m. and 8 p,rn, It promises to be a v.ery enjoyable experience · f'Of . both -parents, students, and faculty. the play is directed by Lee Bloomrosen, '76 who is certainly no newcomer to the field of dramatic production. Lee has managed to : combine a Elections for the position of Editor-i<n-cMe.f o.f CONCORDIENSIS will be held on · Monday, Ma·y 10 in · the · Concordy _office; third .· · floor Carnegie. Any student, . regardless· ofwhether or not he or she has .participated on the paper, is eligible to run. Editor-ship extends o-ver . a period of two terms. Only . those students who have participated on Concordy during the past two terms are eligible to vote in the election. In the event of tie, the Editor- in-Chief will break the deadlock. All interested students are invited to. submit 'their names, along with a statement of · policy intent, to Mrs. Marra in the Student Activities Office by Friday, May. 7. Professor Richard Taylor will read a paper ''If God is Delld, Then Is Everything Permissible-?\ on Friday, Apil 23rd at 2:30 pm in Humanities 117. Professor Taylor, who teaches at the University .of Rochester, is the author ot many books and articles -- Notably: Metaphysics; Good and Evil; 'freedom, Anarchy and ¢he· Law and With Heart and Mind. His t:lllk is part ofa series on What P)lilosophy Is and is open to all members of the community. Refreshments will be served afterwards in the Humanities Lounge.\ talented cast and a skillful crew into a truly enjoyable show. To describe the play in much detail would minimize the impact of the humor evident throughout the wovk. The ,Lad~'s NQt Fo~ Burning is a satire of Elizabethan cdmedy with- the use of techniques such as exaggeration and metaphors. The dr~m~ concerns itself with the pragmatist and the romantic, or as Lee himself says, \lfs the difference between those w.ith their feet on the ground and their -heads in the clouds.\ Although the char~cters a,ppear to be abstract 'represe!}t~tions .of types of (1e~;Jple, they do have real relationships. The play discusses the vafidity of th_ese relationships 9:00-10:00 Registration-Achilles and raises questions about the ~ink. way people approach one 10:-11:00 Greetings by Pres. another. Bonner & others-Memorial Tickets are now available on Chapel. weekdays from 1-5 p.m. in the 11:00-12:30 Faculty Academic Nott. Union students with IDs are Program(organiz.ed by divisions). charged $.50 per person, and 12:30-l :30 Luncheon-Field parents are . charged .. $2:00. House, Reservations must be made at the I: 30-3:3 0 Activities Nott Memorial Box office. Exposition-Achilles Rink. Tours from the Rink. Science, technology ~rchives to be dedicated The ·Schenectady Archives of Science and Technology, a depository at Union College's Schaffer 'Library for papers of noted figures in the history of science, will be dedicated Saturday, April 24. The highlight of the public ceremony will be an address by the noted mathematician and author Dr. Banesh Hoffmann; of Queens CoJlege. Dr. Hoffmann's addr~ss will b~ on_ \U~expected Rewards.\ · · · ,. The dedication will. begin with a welcqme by Union College President Thomas N. Bonner at ll a.m. in the main re&ding room of Schaffer library. A reception beginning at 10:30 in the library's music room will precede the dedication. The Schenectady Archives of Science and Technology was founded five. years ago as a protective storehouse for important scientific _ papers. However. only with the recent completion of a major addition to Schaffer Library have the materials in the Archives been readily available to researchers tracing the development of modem science and the lives of those who shaped it. Among the Archives' papers are those·of Charles P. Steinmetz, the great General Electric inventor and Union College professor who is best remembered for his creation of \artificial lightning\ and the arc lamp. In . addition, the Archives hold the full collection of Ernest F. W. Alexanderson's technical papers, through which can be traced the' development of over 300 patents he received during his 46-year tenure at G.E. Alexanderson, who died only last May at the age of 97, was responsible for the invention of the l:ligh-frequency alternator which, for the first tiine, permitted radio transmission of the human voice. ln addition, he pioneered in the development of television, giving TV its first theater demons-tration in Schenectady's Proctor Theater in 1930. General Electric has figured importantly in the development of the Archives. Not only have a number of its most prominent scientists and engineers donated papers (others include Ernst Berg, Howard I. Becker, Samuel P. Nixdorff, Birger W. Nordlander and Philip L. Alger), but the G. E. Foundation donated $10,000 to the Archives last fall. · General Electric will be represented at the dedication by Edmund B. Tucker, G. E.'s. Continued on Page 2 Only monetary $Upport from .students. faculty, alumni and the administration can save the Nott Memorial from its lmpe;nalfnJr doom, For a report on progress of the \Save Our Nott Memoriai\-committee see 5. ·

il r • unton college Vol. 105, No.19 Wednesday, Aprilll, 1976 • • on cor tensts I 1 Accepted Candidates Day: Prospective students Saturday • arrive As many as 1000 pruspectrve Union College students and parents are expected to visit the campus on \Accepted Candidates' Day\ Sattuday. April 24. Fvery candidate accepted to Union and his parents have been invited to the campus to review the opportunities the college has to offer before they determine what college the studeFit will attend next fall. di\ision ol the college. .. Prospective college students are askmg tougher qu~stiom than they used to about the colleges they are considenng entering,\ says Ja:r Shupe, dtrcctor of admission~ ... I hey'rc rt:st:archmg their college choices more closely than their predecessors.\ \They've given their futures a lot of thought and want some concrete answers about what the results are going to be,\ Shupe continued. A major factor in the trend, says Shupe, is the national trend toward higher tuitions. Peter Sobol, Gary Levy, and Roger Summer hayes toast Parents' Weekend in THE LADY'S NOT FOR BURNING- get tickets for your parents now! \Accepted Candidates Day\ will feature an afternoon \activities exposition\ in Achilles Rink at which each student and campus group will man booths demonstrating the extra- curricular opportunities which exist at Union. Opportunities offered in the academic program will be discussed in morning presentations made by each The objective of \Accepted Candidates Day,\ said Shupe, \is to give as accurate a picture as possible about what happens on the campus. To help students make decisions, we want to provide them with some insight about what life at Union College is like.\ -.:he schedule for Saturday's events are as follows: A romantic drama for the pragmatic by WENDY SOLOVAY Among the more entertaining events scheduled for this year's Parents' Weekend is Christopher Fry's play, The Lady's Not For Burning. Union College's Mountebanks will be presesnting this show in Nott Memorial four times throughout the weekend: Friday, April 30 at 8 p.m., Saturday, May I at 2 p.m., and Sunday, May 2 at both 2 p.m. and 8 p.m. It promises to be a very enjoyable experience for both parents, students, and faculty. The play is directed by Lee Bloomrosen, '76 who is certainly no newcomer to the field of dramatic production. Lee has managed to combine a Elections for the position of Editor-in-chief of CONCORDIENSIS will be held on Monday, May 10 in the Concordy office, third floor Carnegie. Any student, regardless of whether or not he or she has participated on the paper, is eligible to run. Editor-ship extends over a period of two terms. Only those students who have participated on Concordy during the past two terms are eligible to vote in the election. In the event of tie, the Editor- in-Chief will break the deadlock. All interested students are invited to submit their names, along with a statement of policy intent, to Mrs. Marra in the Student Activities Office by Friday, May 7. Professor Richard Taylor will read a paper \If God is Dead, Then Is Everything Permissible?\ on Friday, Apil 23rd at 2:30 pm in Humanities 117. Professor Taylor, who teaches at the University of Rochester, is the author of ~~ many books and articles - 1 >; :-.Jotablv: Metaphysics; Good ~~ and £vii; Freedom, Anarchy r' and the· Law and With Heart <,;j and Mind. His talk is part of a I.J series on What Philosophy Is , \ and is open to all members of •. ~ the community. Refreshments ' will be served afterwards in ~ the Humanities Lounge. talented cast and a skillful crew into a truly enjoyable show. To describe the play in much detail would minimize the impact of the humor evident throughout the work. The Lady's Not For Burning is a satire of Elizabethan comedy with the use of techniques such as exaggeration and metaphors. The drama concerns itself with the pragmatist and the romantic, or as Lee himself says, \It's the difference between those with their feet on the ground and their heads in the clouds.\ Although the characters appear to be abstract representations of types of people, they do have real relationships. The play discusses the validity of these relationships 9:00-10:00 Registration-Achilles and ra1ses questions about the Rink. way people approach one 10:-11:00 Greetings by Pres. another. Bonner & others-Memorial Tickets are now available on Chapel. weekdays from 1-5 p.m. in the 11:00-12:30 Faculty Academic Nott. Union students with IDs are Program (organized by divisions). charged $.50 per person, and 12:30-1:30 Luncheon-Field parents are charged $2.00. House. Reservations must be made at the I: 3 0- 3: 3 0 Activities Nott Memorial Box office. Exposition-Achilles Rink. Tours from the Rink. Science, technology archives to be dedicated The Schenectady Archives of Science and Technology, a depository at Union College's Schaffer Library for papers of noted figures in the history of science, will be dedicated Saturday, April 24. The highlight of the public ceremony will be an address by the noted mathematician and author Dr. Banesh Hoffmann, of Queens College. Dr. Hoffmann's address will be on \Unexpected Rewards.\ The dedication will begin with a welcome by Union College President Thomas N. Bonner at II a.m. in the main reading room of Schaffer Library. A reception beginning at I 0:30 in the library's music room will precede the dedication. The Schenectady Archives of Science and Technology was founded five years ago as a protective storehouse for important scientific . papers. However, only with the recent completion of a major addition to Schaffer Library have the materials in the Archives been readily available to researchers tracing the development of modern science and the lives of those who shaped it. Among the Archives' papers are those of Charles P. Steinmetz, the great General Electric inventor and Union College professor who is best remembered for his creation of \artificial lightning\ and the arc lamp. In . addition, the Archives hold the full collection of Ernest F.W. Alexanderson's technical papers, through which can be traced the· development of over 300 patents he received during his 46-year tenure at G.E. Alexanderson, who died only last May at the age of 97, was responsible for the invention of the high-frequency alternator which, for the first time, permitted radio transmission of the human voice. In addition, he pioneered in the development of n.J ' ; \. ~ .• ' t • television, giving TV its first theater demonstration in Schenectady's Proctor Theater in 1930. General Electric has figured importantly in the development of the Archives. Not only have a number of its most prominent scientists and engineers donated papers (others include Ernst Berg, Howard I. Becker. Samuel P. Nixdorff, Birger W. Nordlander and Philip L. Alger). but the G. E. Foundation donated $10,000 to the Archives last fall. General Electric will be represented at the dedication by Edmund B. Tucker, G.E.'s Continued on Page 2 Only monetary support from students, faculty, alumni and the administration can save the Nott Memorial from its impending doom. For a report on progress of the \Save Our Nott Memorial\ committee, see page 5.

• Paae2 ( Hofftnan highlights Continued from' Page 1. · manager of science and technology support programs.· Also in the Archives is an extensive 25,000-item collection of photographic negatives depicting steam, electric and diesel locomotives produced by Schenectady's American Locomotive Company from 1880 to 1954. . Primarily responsible for the development of the Schenectady Archives ·of Science and Technology was the late Edwin K. Tolan, head librarian at Schaffer Library, who died in February. He will be remembered and his contribution recognized in the dedication ceremony. ihe main speaker at the dedication, Dr. Hoffmann, is the author of \The Strange Story of• the Quantum,\ hailed at the time of its publication in 1947 as \one of the great classics of popular but intelligent science.\ ' Dr. Hoffmann's address will be part of tne dedication of the Schenectady Archives of Science and Technology at Schaffer Library. The dedication, which begins at l J a.m., will be in the main reading room of the library. It is open to the public. . Dr. Hoffmann is also the author of \Albert Einstein: Creator and Rebel.'' Published in 1972, the book was hailed by Publisher's Weekly as \one of the most impressive books of the year,\ For the book, Dr. Hoffman won the I 973 Science , Writing Award of the American Institute of Physics and the United States Steel Foundation. D~;. Hoffmann has also written more than a hundred research papers and expository articles on relativity, quantum theory, and the applications of tensor analysis to electrical engineering. Furthermore. he is a controversial Benny Goodman will be jazzing up. the Parents' Weekend festivities with his May l concert. Union Pharmacy 600 Union ~1. Men& Women Student Needs 374;.3(;05 · : . - FQii UQUOR A.ND_WINE Try Jmce .. Lipstein's 4M_s-.stnet ...... The Dutch Hollow Announces Wednesday Special Ni&ht- Vodka Collins for 7Sc Every Thursday is Italian Niebt: dinner served from S pmtol:lt PM · Complete dinners, priced from $2..19 to $4.69, include unihnited salad bar and delicious bread. Friday Nipt, AprD 23rd is BSA Nipt. Dinner is Soul Food and will include Fried Chicken, Pork Chops, Ham, Short Ribs with Barbecue Sauce, Collard Greens, Soul Food Potato Salad, and other delights. Saturday- The Pub will open 11:30 am for lunch (served until 1:30). The Snack Bar will be open at 2 til 5:30pm \Happy Hour\ is .from 1:00-4:30 pm; drinks are 7St Bartenders Wanted- for Parents Weekend to serve · cocktails at AchiUes Rink during the Goodman Concert. Rate Sl.l5/hr. See Rita Reece at Personnel. archives dedication cnuc of multiple-choice tests, having criticized their scientific validity in a 1962 book, \The Tyranny of Testing.\ In his talk at the dedication, Dr. Hoffmann said he will speak not only about some of the things that one finds, or hopes to find, in archives, but also about some of the \hop~s and agonizings of creative scientists in their search for understanding.\ It will not be Dr. Hoffmann's first visit to Union College. In 1969 he was a participant in a symposium at the college on the works of mathematician Gabriel Kron. Dr. Hoffmann was among the first to champion Kron's . revolutionary mathematical ideas. The orientation program for Schwartz; Communication, the class of 1980 is now being Marsh Wisoff; ~ommuters, planned. Anyone interested m Ronni Zank,el; :Liaison, Alison working with the orientation Jameson, Gai1 Chatman; . committee in the following Freshman Record, Michael specific areas is urged to sign the Marks; Administrative T.iaison, list in Student Activities office, C r a i g C a r1 son , The t e s e Carnegie Hall. Members of the . Ambrusko. · committee are: Cochairmen, The committee meets each Patricia Curr.an~ David Woog; tuesday afternoon at 4:30 in 214 F'ood, Jeff Amado; Student- Carnegie. These meetings, open to Faculty, Jody Lavien; Transfer, the college community, you are · J_oy Sawyer; Social, Neal invited to attt.:nd. Union College will be hosting . th~ next 81oodmobile on thursday, ~hty 6 from II am to 5 pm and Friday, May 7 from 9 am to 3 pm. Response to tile last Bloodmobile was excellent .and we hope that you will continue to support the blood · program. To save you from waiting, please sign up ahead of time in Mrs. Marra's office . by stopping .Monday through Friday from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. or by e1tlling 370-6118. As usual, .a keg contest will be . held in conjunction with the blood drivl!. A keg will be given .to tlle dorm floor or Frat with the highest percentage · contributions. The · last two winners were 3rd .floQr North and 4th Ooor South, so you . don't have to be a frat brother to replenish lost fluids. Please · · . donate about a half hour of your tilme on May 6 or 7 and · maybe your floor will walk ' . away a winner. cabaret THURSDAY, APRIL 22,1976 Shows at !):00 and 11:00 PM Tickets on Sale at 8:00 PM in Carnegie The Dating Game CABARET advises tbat this material may be offensive. We urge the sensitive to use discretion in deciding to view this show. INTELLECTUAL CABARET MON., APRIL 26th, 8:30 TOPIC: \1001: Prospects and Perspectives on the Future\ Bob Wells (History) and Paul Mason (Engineering) will lead off the discussion. Free refreshments. .1111111111111~ II I llllilllllll~'''llll l,,,,,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~ ~I ~111111111111-1111. Grand Opening DAVE'S • trf II a store devotea to the needs of the contemporary male and female; featuring jeans, skirts, and sportswear by Levi, Faded Glory Cardin, HIS, and Wra·ngler. 428 State St. Downtown Schenectady ( 4 doors east of the Squire Shop) Tues. and Thur. till 9:00 masterchf:lrge 377-3061 BANKAMERICARD . ' I Ill llliillilllj lllilliilllllllllllllllllll\ . ~ I te e: r~ 0 s1 e: p tl (I p 0

. . Calling all 'vidiots' Sitting down, in front of the television has become a mediocre experience at best. Give~ the daily fare of game shows and soap operas, \sit-coms\ and . poUce stories, it barely seems worth the effort, much less the time, to plant body and mind in front of the tube. One feels tempted to return to more worthwhile pastimes like watering the .plants or taking a well-deserved nap. by JAMES LAWLESS programs. They run frequently For those of us with the workshops on the operation of memory of a l)lisspe.nt childhood portable video equipment and of Gilligan, E_nsign Parker and studio tec~niques. The latter is Spock, there is some hope. actually qmte eas~ .. In fact, there. Numerous people in this area are . are . se~eral cerhfted members trying to get television to say unde~ fift~en years old. _ . something to VJEWJ;RS rather Astde from the button~pushmg than sponsors or c~rporate and .c~ble. twi~ting, public acc~ss moguls. They are conviced that it televtslon provtdes an opportumty can serve a better function than it for members of the College has in the past. Part of this feeling community to try a hand at any is due to the rath~r new, and just of a d?zen face~s of television sh~;~rt of magical, technolqgy prod~ctton. TV ts by no m~ans surrounding cable disseminated restncted to . the techfucal television. It is now possible ·to operation of ca~eras and tape '\;ablecast\ not only the playoff decks._ lt dep_ends JUS~ as much on games from .. New York and a graphic arttsts, wnters, sound spate of old movies, but programs men, actors~ a~d assorted helpers .. made by people in the area. 'to Th~ .~oun~tl 1tself. offers. more those of you with \the box\ activities, tr~m pubhc relatiOns to _hooked to your TV this can be fund _raising, . all o~ which are found on channel sixteen. 1-llese essential to seemg a ptcture on the are not slick, ~: pt:ofessional screen. A p~rty is being held April productions, but personal 25t~ to ratse money. f<;>r .new s t ~ t em en ts, per s 0 n a 1 eqmpmen~. Everyone Is mvtted. ~ ~'Page 3 arts In all fairness to Ruta and Alex, and aH the \squares\, .television does remain fascinating. It is a potentially great communicator; which is-- what mal\.es it so troublesome. While it £~rtainly is fun to watch a short- order cook from Buena Vista win ~ spanish modem bedroom ensemble, along with scads of money (for the h~use to put it in?), the_re remains the -ominous feeling that the - entire really does not concern me at all. Neighbors will tattle on neighbors whether l watcli or not, and \the <me thing tha Peruvian· brides Ieee!) closed • until after the ceremony\ will stay that way until the Andes themselves topple in boredom. Perhaps When l rea<:h the edge of my night I can find some solace in the ridiculous tribulations of people whose· least worry is the fact that they are - called twice ~or everything. Until tnen, there seems no point in turning tile infernal thing on, just ta see the seventh rerun of old tripe. communicaiion to tire viewers. by If you tlr~ of pulpy .melodratn~s other viewers. It is literally, local and .. syn~tcated tnpe, pubhc television, conceived and televiston 1s a way out. Produce produced by students, ministers, the pia Y that will make the campus ~nd professional people. The cry. Show . the. world. where the programs are on topics of concern strange no1ses m Davtdson come to anyone in ,Schenectady. from .. While you are at it, you Loggins and Messina: \Love their music\ Thursday, May 13, at9in the Rink. Channel sixteen is not' run by may JUSt learn what made you a the cable company, though they \vidiot\. . _ . receive much of their support lnf?~mat~on o~ Pubhc Acc~ss from it, It is controlled_ by the Televtston ts avatlable from Jtm elected Schenectady Access Cable Lawless (372-9303) or from the Council. This Council sees to it Acess Coordinator at S.A.C.C. that people in the area aretrained (Stephanie Stewart ~ 370-3955). in the use of the equipment ;1nd encouraged to create new Come down to the hoedown Bill Matthews, a rising poet, will be giving a reading of his own _work on Wednesday, April 28 at 1 p.m. in Strauss Lounge. This reading and the workshop he will lead are both sponsored by the Idol. The workshop is open to all those . ,interested in criticizing or having their own work criticized. (This can include criticism in the positive sense!) It shall be held the same day in Humanities 114 or thereabouts by ALAN HOLTZMAN : Big Brothers/ Big Sisters of Union · College and Schenectady County will be sponsoring a HOEDOWN on Saturday night, April 24, in Alumni Gym. The HOEDOWN is being held in order to raise money for next year's program. Music fortheHOEDOWNwill. be supplied by tile country rock band, Badge. The group will offer a variety of dance music, featuring outstanding vocal arrangements. The band has played throughout the northeast with Linda Ronstadt, and John Lennon's group, Elephant Memory. Badge's repertoire. includes traditional country tunes, original compositions, artd contemporary country.flavored works. In addition ta Badge there - will be a comedian and a banjo .plaver. o Rob Davis of Saga and Angelo Mazzone of the Dutch Hollow Pub have been helpful in donating their services toward this event. There will be a full bar. However; beer will not be sold at 25 cents a glass as previously · advertised, Hotdogs and pizza will be sold and potato chips will be· given away. Tickets for the HOEDOWN are $1.00 for students and faculty, and are available in Mrs. Marra's office. Tickets at the door are $2.00. There are only a limited number of tickets available, so purchase them soon and help make the HOEDOWN an enjoyable evening in support of a worthy cause. .at 2:30. . Bill Matthews has written· a book entitled SLEEK FOR THE LONG FLIGHTand:has been published in· such journals as the Atlantic. He presently lives in Colorado. Since he has come so far to see us, it is hoped that many of us shall at least be able to make it away from out beer or books ·- to see him. . 374-5~21 GEORGE'S MUSIC STORE Student Discounts sos state st. Schenectady Btg Brothers and Sisters will sponsor a grand Hoedown, Saturday night, April 24, in the Gym. · , Records: Let there be ~nusic by DAN ROSENBAUM Since the last time this column appeared, I learned of the death of one of the major topical songwriters of the '60s, Phil Ochs. He hung himself in his sister's house in Queens. Friends reported that he had been despondent of late because, \the words wouldn't come.\ In the liner notes of his 1964 album I Ain't Marchio' Anymore, Ochs wrote that he would \never kick the habit of writing.\ lt is sad that such ;agiftedsongwritercouldnot. find another outlet for his despondency. His music will be missed. If ·you want to pick up on his excellent music, his best albums are Phil Ochs In Concert (Electra EKS-7310) and Pleasures Of The Harbor (A&M SP 4133), The latter has such classics as \Cross My Heart,\ \Flower Lady,\ \Outside a Small Circle ot Friends,\ and \The Crucifixion.\ In Concert has \Changes \There But For Fortune,\ \Love Me, I'm A Liberal,\ and \Bracero.\ To more current matters. AI DiMeola, Land Of The, Midnight Sun (Columbia). The . guitarist for Return To Forever hits it very big on this disc. Di Meola must have the fastest fingers this side of Alvin Lee in his Ten Years After Days. The members of RTF sit in and do great things with the music. The most valuable sideman on the album is Mingo Lewis, who wrote the best track on the disc, The Wizard,. and is (ine on percussion Sunday, April 25, 4 pm, Arts Bldg. RM 202 This presentation is conceived as a political experiment contrasting ideas in improvisational music with the American socio-political experience. An extended improvisational piece, w.ritten b3 Santi Wilson de Briano, will be perfornted by the composer . with the help of a six-man group of young modern jazz musicians. The presentation. is part of Mr. Wilson de Briano's Senior Project in political science. Admission is free of charge and open to the entire campus community. Your attendance at this Important event will be much appreciated. Arts Bldg. 202, 4. _pm April 25. \throughout. Also good is .aach's 1 sarabande from Violin Sonata In B, which Di Meola plays unaccompanied on acoustic guitar. Only slightly worse than · The Wizard, which opens the album, is Chick Corea's Short Tal~s From The Black Forest, whjs:h closes it. An energetic number, ! reminiscent of No' Mystery, it is basically a duet for acoustic piano and six-string acoustic guttar. Like the whole album, a job well done. A Ethos, Ethos (Ardour) (Capitol) It escapes me just what a reputable company like Capitol is doing by putting such utter garbage on the market. Invest the price of this record in a good Frisbee - the Frisbee will fly better, and with the proper needle in your turntable, probably sound better, too. F- Pousette-Dart Band (Capitol) Pleasant, light-rock, sounding a bit like America. The band is .led by Jon Pousette-Dart (born and raised in New York City), and he, like the rest of the band, are more-than-competent musicians. Nothing very heavy here, just some nice listening. B Wings, Wings At The Speed Of Sound (Capitol) When the only listenable _song on an album is the AM single, you might say it's in trouble. Paul McCartney steps a bit into the background on this one, and without his distinctive vocals, Wings sounds like just another mediocre band, which wouldn't be so bad for most groups. But this is McCartney!_ M_cG3:r:_tney was one Conttnued on Pag~ 7 Petitions will be available in Mrs. Marra's office on Friday, April 23 for the following elected offices: President, Vice President, Secretary, and two representatives for the sophomore and junior classes of NEXT year fm: the Student Forum. Petitions will also be available for the junior trustee position. Petitions will be due in Mrs. Marra's office no later than 4 pm on Friday, May 7, with elections to be held on Tuesday, May 11 and runoffs if necessary on Thursday, May 13. Candidates should note that campaign letters to CONCORDY should be in by Monday, May 3 for the May 5 issue.

..... a product of the 70's Next Tuesday the College Senate is voting on a proposal that would make it mandatory for all incoming freshmen to take a course in composition. The idea is one that has been kicking around for· some time now. or at least since the decline and fall of Union SAT scores. · With such an obvious decrease in the ability of students to verbally communicate, the req'Jirement seems to be an almost mandatory one. The Comp Ed. system has already been seen to be riddled with short-comings; a course in critical writing would give th~ program ~orne sort of overall value. The ability to read and write has slowly been subverted by the 1970's and its television-oriented society. Union College and its government must realize that written forms of communication can serve, not only as a tool for English majors» but as a means for all students to be creative and analytical in their thinking. The Freshmen English requirement would. not reverse the downward trend that exists in writing at the high school, but would provide incoming freshmen with the basic composition skills that are being neglected. Coneordiensis agrees with the idea of the writing seminar and urges all students to demonstrate their support for the measure. DLM Men an:d women are .. stra·n-ge Men and women to-gether are strange. After three years, two terms, and three-and-one-half weeks at Union, l am tempted to believe that the relations of men and women are not subject to logical analysis. But of course they are subject to analysis, and having had my college cafeer to complete the analysis, l feel co-mpetent to handle any such relations which may involve me once I am ejected into the world. I am firmly convinced· that the subjugation of the hormones is the only alternative to utter misery in a man's life. Once the hormones are relegated to their proper place in the viscera arid refused admittance to the mind, the mind will be freed from all manner of torments a Ia Wire genstein: the solution to the problem lies in the dissolution of the problem. One of the problems which will be thus dissoluted is the problem of how to meet WO'?len, for it will no longer be an Unsettling, embarrasing mess in by PETER SOBOL our lives - it will be gone. And with that out of the way, one will be able to make friends passively, regardless of sex. Without the frittering involved in first dates and )ate-night walks in the Garden. Now this would actually be a marvelous leap for the human race, and Union men as welL Thitlk of the .gas no longer wasted on drives to Skidmore. Think of money no longer wasted on pornography. Think of the emotional energy now totally available for final exams, beer , rallies, and oinhalL Think of the efficient l!~t.~~ we could take even though Ms So-and -so in the front row is only wearing a necklace today. Union women would also benefit. They would find their haUways free of unwanted loiterers at all hours. Th~y could draw back the curtains on .fine days - even those who live on the first floor, and would need on;ly tolerate abuse from occasional town Clowns. Don't you see'! If a man and a woman were now to become frief!dly, there Would be no suspicion of motives, nothing which could not be reasoned out. Yes, the Platonic ~- relationship would solve all our problems. The -present system is quite unfair t.o those Who, through none ·Of their own c:l.oing, have not been labeled ·handsome by some absurd, illogical aesthetic mling. Everyone will be on equal terms. Many people object to hormone suppression on the grounds that it may work only too well alld that the suppressor will in tact lose out on a good time. But that 'good time' is often paid for, by both men and women, with .strange diseases, untoward entanglements, and mighty surprising mOJ.:ilings 11.fter. No, only sup.pressi<,m of hormones can allow us t() lead the civilized, Platonic life of the mind that .people should lead. After aU, we are not only human. - . - A· trivial response to a tri.vial program by LO~ DIAMOND · with honesty and fair play at the Far be it from me to employ forefront of their actions). - your valiant newspaper as a those staunchly stalwart forum for what the less enlightend dormcrawlers of West College. reader may view as •petty Perhaps we were sassy and squabbling.' Nonetheless, 1 must overconfident. Perhaps we were insist in presenting my feelings slow to dial and quick to err in concerning this week's explosive the clutch. But damnit, man; session of Trivia. As a resident of we're talking about deliberate hard-hitting West College and a sabotage via the airwaves! A devout follower of that exercise in harsh claim; a dangerous remark, esoterica which pits the combined one seeming to be tantamount to intellectual forces of Union heresy? I think not. Well, perhaps College against each other with a little harsh. Butjustified; ah, it the noble aim of establishing is certainly a justified remark. supremacy in superficiality (please Lloyd · Saberski has always bear with me if rny sentences are commanded my res}fect both for too long, contrived,and,inaword, his technical ability and sense ·of undecipherable; I'ffifrying to fair play. Yet how my friends; make the deadline), I am very how could he sanciion such much disheartened by what I obvious tampering on the part of consider to be a definite aim of those WRUC rapscallions! In the WRUC staff involved with the brief, the answer is simple: he is Trivia broadcast presented one of them. Interestingly tonight to befuddle, confuse, ano enough, it was three. of his ultimately shake the .firm moral hrilliantly~onceived questions fibres of those· dedicated young which were at first answered b)' people who give their all each West, and then almost gleefully week, trying desparately (and yet snatched away by WRUC, which The 1976 Student Phonathon will be held May 17-10. During these nights teams of students will call alumni all over the country to solicit donations to the 1976 Annual Fund. Each team is to be compoSed of eight students, with two students manning the phones each night. Last year thirteen teams raised over $16,000 in four nights. This effort helped put Union in the top fifteen colleges in the country for alumni donor participation. This year, with more alumni to call, the number of teams will be inereased to fifteen. The goal .for this year is 525,000. Free beer, soda and sandwiches will be served during the phoning. A keg of beer will be aw~rded· to the team with the highest dollar amount of pledges and another to the team with the greatest number of ·donors who have increased their pledge over last year. Individual prizes will be g_iven to thE! persons winning these categories for each nigli\t. For entry forms and more information, contaet Keith Mott, 372-0172; Don Dennis, 346·9590; Kathy Greco, 370· 6760; or Mark Scott, 372-0172. destroyed my faith as well as the faith of my colleagues at West. Remember, you're dealing with impressionable young adults at UC; idealistic pre-meds, dreary EE majors; arrogant English majors; confused Liberal Artists. To them, Trivia represents a few hours away from the books, and a chance for them to recall in minor detail the highlights of their Or is i.t WBGU? yesteryears with fond exuberance. This week it was West who took the shaft full to the hilt. But when will this kind of murky espionage end? Will David- son take the fall next week'! How about Fox? Or any of the other different dorms on campus gathered almost mystically in , brotherhood on that · one Tuesday night'! I say, we must r . force Saberski and his bellicose band of third-class (licensed) hooligans to dispefse with such defeatist vindictiveness in future Trivia bouts. Listen, Lloyd.: Y.ou got a nice, big transmitter, . right? Transmitters break; catch on fire; burn out transistors. 'Nuff said. WRUC-AM hits the • atr by NEAL ADAM SCHWARtZ The only Union College student organization that is audible seven days a week, WRUC, . has disclosed that construction is under way on a 100 milliwatt transmitter for the AM station. America's first college station is adding a novel feature to the community with this proposed transmitter. The installation of this electronic instrument. is more than its engineering displays; it means the p.ossibility of AM broadcasting off campus. Former General Manager Rich Forselius researched the idea of the 100 milliwatt tran$mitter during a visit to Syracuse. Their AM station, W J PZ, -was broadcasting off campus without a license. The 100 milliwatt level is under the limit required for licensing by the FCC. At an lBS (Intercollegiate Broadcasti.ng System) convention in Philadelphia, Kurt Melden, · Technical Director for WRUC, spoke with an official of the FCC as well as a· representative for the Syracuse station conceniing the legal matters of such a· ·TodifferentiatebetWeen.thetwo transmitter. After all doubts were stations, rather than call both cleared up, the parts for the stations WRUC, the AM station transmitter were ordered. will\ problably have its call letters At present, WRUC-AM is not changed to WBGU (Broadcasting transmitting. This is in Group of Union). A .different preparation for the step up to the .programming format is expected new transmitter. Financially, the to go along with the new call new transmitter is a good ·letters. The reasoning behind this investment, the primary r.eason · is that WRUC w.ants to provide being the revenue it would bfing an a l tern a ti v e type of in. ihe old carrier current system programming between the two has deteriorated \to the point .of stations. The FM station will being non-functional, and .remain .a progressive rock station involved the additional cost of whereas the futtJ.re of AM appears phone lines. to be geared to popuiar rock . Many of the AM jocks are tunes ~ more than just a top 40 disillusioned over the brief station. .~~~ence ·Of AM. The FM station is WRUC's Despite this. brief period, one prime concern at this point, but a must look at the transformation training ground for FM jocks is the st-ation has und~rgone in a bit .a necessity for the station. As of more than a year. In March 1975, now only licensed jocks can man WRUC was only a carrier curtent \A\ Studio (WRUC-FM). radio station that broadcast to In the FM station, a new Union College. As soon as the format has been established with AM transmitter is completed,· the requirement of all jocks to Union College will have tWc:J radio play 25 -perc~nt of their music stations. Those students interested · from the P.laybox.. This affords in working on AM - should the listener the opportunity to contact Jack Glynn • AM hear good new music as well as coordinator. old favorites.

Pase4 CONCORDIENSIS, Wed1iesday, Apri/21. 1976 a product of the 70's Next Tuesday the College Senate is voting on a proposal that would make it mandatory for all incoming freshmen to take a course in composition. The idea is one that has been kicking around for some tinne now, or at least since the decline and fall of Union SAT scores. With such an obvious decrease in the ability of students to verbally communicate, the requirement seems to be an almost mandatory one. The Comp Ed. system has already been seen to be riddled with short-comings; a co\Urse in critical writing would give the program ~me sort of overall value. The ability to read and write has slowly been subverted by the 1970's and its television-oriented society. Union College and its government must realize that written forms of communication can serve, not only as a tool for English majors, but as a means for all students to be creative and analytical in their thinking. The Freshmen English requirement would not reverse the downward trend that exists in writing at the high school, but would provide incoming freshmen with the basic composition skills that are being neglected. Concordiensis agrees with the idea of the writing seminar and urges all students to demonstrate their support f()r the measure. DLM Opinion: Men and women are strange Men and women together are strange. After three years, two terms, and three,and,one,half weeks at Union, I am ~erupted to believe that the relations of men and WOinen are not subject to logical analysis. But of course they are subject to analysis, and having had my college career to complete the analysis, l feel competent to handle any such relations which may involve me once I am ejected into the world. I am firmly convinced that the subjugation of the hormones is the only alternative to utter misery in a man's life. Once the hormones are relegated to their proper place in the viscera and refused admittance to the mind, the mind will be freed from all manner of torments a Ia Witt~ genstein: the solution to the problem lies in the dissolution of the problem. One of the problems which will be thus dissoluted is the problem of how to meet women, for it wil'l no longer be an unsettling, embarrasing mess in by PETER SOBOL our lives - it wiU be gone. And with that out of the way, one will be able to make frieilds passively, regardless of sex. Without the frittering involved in first dates and late,night walks m the Garden. Now this would actually be a marvelous leap for the human race, and Union men as well. Think of the gas no longer wasted on drives to Skidmore. Think of money no longer wasted on pornography. Think of the emotional energy now totally available for final exams, beer .raUies, and oinhall. Think of the efficient I\!Qt.~t we could take even though Ms So-and -so in the front row is only wearing a necklace today. Union women would also benefit. They would find their hallways free of unwanted loiterers at all hours. They could draw back the curtains on fine days - even those who live on the first floor, and would need only tolerate abuse from occasional town clowns. Don't you see? If a man and a woman were now to become friendly, there would be no suspicion of motives, nothing which could not be reasoned out. Yes, the Platonic relationship would solve aU our problems. The present system is quite unfair to those who, through none of their own doing, have not been labeled handsome by some absurd, illogical aesthetic ruling. Everyone wilt be on equal terms. Many people obj,ect to hormone suppression on the grounds that it may work only too well and that the suppressor will in fact lose out on a good time. But that 'good time' is often paid for, by both men and women, with strange diseases, untoward entanglements, and mighty surprising mor;nings after. No, only suppression o( hormones can aHow us to lead the civilized, Platonic life of the mind that people should lead. After all, we are not only human. A trivial response to a trivial program by LON DIAMOND Far be it from me to employ your valiant newspaper as a forum for what the less enligtltend reader may view as 'petty squabbling.' Nonetheless, I must insist in presenting my feelings concerning this week's explosive session of Trivia. As a resident of hard-hitting West College and a devout follower of that exercise in esoterica which pits the combined intellectual forces of Union College against each other with the noble aim of establishing supremacy in superficiality (please bear with me if my sentences are too long, contrived,and,inaword, undecipherable;- I'm- trying to make the deadline), I am very much disheartened by what I consider to be a definite aim of the WRUC staff involved with the Trivia broadcast presentee tonight to befuddle, confuse, ana ultimately shake the firm moral fibres of those dedicated young people who give their all each week, trying desparately (and yet with honesty and fair play at the forefront of their actions) - those staunchly stalwart dormcrawlers of West College. Perhaps we were sassy and overconfident. Perhaps we were slow to dial and quick to err in the clutch. But damnit, man; we're talking about deliberate sabotage via the airwaves! A harsh claim; a dangerous remark, one seeming to be tantamount to heresy? I think not. Well, perhaps a little harsh. But justified; ah, it is certainly a justified remark. Lloyd Saberski has always commanded my respect both for his technical ability and sense of fair play. Yet how my friends; how could he sanction such obvious tampering on the part of those WR UC rapscallions! In brief, the answer is simple: he is one of them. Interestingly enough, it was three of hi~ brilliantly-conceived questions which were at first answered by West, and then almost gleefully snatched away by WRUC, which The 1976 Student Phonathon will be held May 17-20. During these nights teams of students will (all alumni all over the country to solicit donations to the 1976 Annual Fund. Each team is to be composed of eight students, with two sttldents manning the phones each night. Last year thirteen teams raised over $16,000 in four nights. This effort helped put Union in the top fifteen colleges in the country for alumni donor participation. This year, with more alumni to call, the number of teams will be increased to fifteen. The goal for ttais year is $25,000. Free beer, soda and sandwiches will be served during the phoning. A keg of beer will be awarded· to the team with the highest dollar amount of pledges and another to the team with the greatest number of donors who have increased their pledge over last year. Individual prizes will be given to the persons winning these .:ategories for each n\iglit. For entry forms and more information, contact Keith Mott, 372-0172; Don Dennis, 346-9590; Kathy Greco, 370- 6760; or Mark Scott, 372-0172. destroyed my faith as well as the faith of my colleagues at West. Remember, you're dealing with impressionable young adults at UC; idealistic pre-meds, dreary EE majors; arrogant English majors; confused Liberal Artists. To them, Trivia represents a few hours away from the books, and a chance for them to recall in minor detail the highlights of their Or is it WBGU? yesteryears with fond exuberance. This week it was West who took the shaft full to the hilt. But when will this kind of murky espionage end'! Will David- son take the fall next week? How about Fox? Or any of the other different dorms on campus gathered almost mystically in brotherhood on that one Tuesday night? I say. we must force Saberski and his bellicose band of third-class (licensed) hooligans to disperse with such defeatist vindictiveness in future Trivia bouts. Listen, Lloyd: You got a nice, big transmitter, right'! Transmitters break; catch on fire; burn out transistors. 'Nuff said. WRUC·AM hits the • atr by NEAL ADAM SCHWARTZ The only Union College student organization that is audible seven days a week, W R U C, has disclosed that construction is under way on a 100 milliwatt transmitter for the AM station. America's first college station is adding a novel feature to the community with this proposed transmitter. The installation of this electronic instrument is more than its engineering displays; it means the possibility of AM broadcasting off campus. Former General Manager Rich Forselius researched the idea of the 100 milliwatt transmitter during a visit to Syracuse. Their AM station, WJPZ, was broadcasting off campus without a license. The I 00 milliwatt level is under the limit required for licensing by the FCC. At an I BS (Intercollegiate Broadcasting System) convention in Philadelphia, Kurt Melden, Technical Difector for WRUC, spoke with an official of the FCC as well as a representative for the Syracuse station concerning the legal matters of such a transmitter. After all doubts were cleared up, the parts for the transmitter were ordered. At present, WRUC-AM is not transmitting. This is in preparation for the step up to the new transmitter. Financially, the new t~ansmitter is a good investment, the primary reason · being the revenue it would bring in. The old carrier current system has deteriorated to the point of being non-functional, and involved the additional cost of phone lines. . Many of the AM jocks are disillusioned over the brief absence of AM. Despite this brief period, one must look at the transformation the station has undergone in a bit more than a year. In March 1975, WRUC was only a carrier current radio station that broadcast to Union College. As soon as the AM transmitter is completed, Union College will have two radio stations. Those students interested in working on AM - should contact Jack Glynn AM coordinator. To differentiate between the two stations, rather than call both stations WR UC, the AM station will problably have its call letters changed to WBGU (Broadcasting Group of Union). A different programming format is expected to go along with the new call letters. The reasoning behind this is that WRUC wants to provide an alternative type of programming between the two stations. The FM station will remain a progressive rock station whereas the future of AM appears to be geared to popular rock tunes - more than just a top 40 station. The FM station is WRUC's prime concern at this point, but a training ground for FM jocks is a necessity for the station. As of now only licensed jocks can man \A\ Studio (WRUC-FM). In the FM station, a new format has been established with the requirement of aH jocks to play 25 percent of their music from the playbox .. This affords the listener the opportunity to hear good new music as well as old favorites.

a no out. ship The t.o to the only and and of the r all, iicose such nice, ght'! fire; two both tation letters pected call this rovide of two will ppears rock top 40 RUC's , but a is As of man new with to music affords to well as Paae 5 Campaign '76: Is there a candidate in the house? by -MARK ABBOTT As the number of candidates for the U.S. Presiqehtial nomination dwindles, the perennial\ complaint once again resounds across the land-and typically too late: ... Why are there no truly ·qualified people running for the highest office in the land? The decline in voter turnout over the past 3 decades is a direct result of the lack of confidence and enthusiasm generated by the candidates. The 1'972 \landslide\ in which only 55 percent of U1e eligible vote.rs .participated resulted not from ~ Dick . and Spiro's overwhelming way with words, hugs. from 4 feet 12 inch :black singers, nor Claim to fame through four strategically located pulchritudinous alma maters-but simply from lack of choice. The problem with the presidency is not (as Coneordy put it), \how unimportant the job has become,\ but actually comes from the limited size of the candidate selection pool. Though cranially Mr. Carter appeared jovial, the \homecoming.. king was serious as he thanked the many better qualified members of his (Memorial Chapel) audience in the race to the oval office. And this holds true not only for the flourescent Mr. Carter.· The rest of the hounds are also finding it difficult to stay afloat in their pool of mediocrity. Yet this crew continues to arise from a very limited field. Rarely are presidential candidates not U.S. Senators or big state Governors, and of these most have economical, political, physical or personal-problems hindering them from the self-selection process. importantly, must recognize and recruit the talent needed to direct a large complex organization. He must be persuasive and inspiring in order to deal with conflicting constituencies and a nation bent on ·competition. Lastly, he must· a man of vision and creativity in order to guide the nation toward constructive goals. Opinion: Isn't there an altern:ative · Therefore, the field of presidential possibilities is severely limited to a small group of power hungry, elite politicians. The problem is where do we find men of this caliber? New sources must be tapped, since the present selection pool is far from producing satisfactory candidates. The place to search is not in politics but in private life. The men with Presidential talent and not hollow words are those who head ,co.-porations, banks, universities, labor unions and large civic institutions. • to 'a·lternative'? Admittedly, the office of the Presidency is. difficult to fill. Though it finds major constraints at every turn, it is apparently the most powerful office in the world. It is an office in ne~;:d of a tryly exceptional executive, capable of by DAN ROSENBAUM Orie of the side effects of ·Watergate was to. highlight the erosion of the Engli~h language. fhr.ases such as ''a·t this .point in itime,\ \prior to.\ and\subsequent to'' became part. ·-of · everyday conversational English, although they have sinc.e faded frem view. other area stations. At a recent meeting, the' newly r~juvenated AM operation was referred t(,) as the alternative to the FM operation. To my ears, it sounds as though WRUC-AM will be the alternative to the alternative. The Pub is Union's alternative to the Raths~ellar:. I;r&te~nity life is! an alternatrve· life-style {a double whammy, that} to dorm life, as is off-campus living, or cooking for oneself. One may fino~alternatives in anything one may do; there is no point in singling out particular issues. for \alternative.\ If one can't he found, l ~uppose we can muddle along. But for a concept that seems to be integral to today's jal'gon, one word, and one word only, seems pretty slim pickings. Imagine the language if there was only one·word for \very\! . leading the American people while organizing an ever-growing bureaucracy. He must be charismatic and eloquent to get elected, and then most Chief executiVes of major corporations have far more executive experience than . Senators and often more than governors. Bankers, like corporation heads, must be highly Continued on Page 7 ··It would. both be unfair and :Inaccurate to put the onus fully on the Ni;xon Administration, though. Catchphrases ·such as Union's springtime by DAN ROSENBAUM . metamorphosis . \ongoing dialogue,\ \detente ••eyeball-to-eyeball confrontation,\ and \thru.st\ have· all plagued the media at one time or another for ~he last ten yeats or so. There is a new threat on the herizon, though. One of the virtues of Union College ;is its diversity. I'm not speaking of · the near-perfect balance between residents of the North and South Shores of Long Island .(I, myself, fall into the latter catagory), hut rather of the sheer number of choices that one has on this _campus. 1 am strongly in favor -of haviM'--such ·options,. .. _but l'm rapidly getting skk of having them called ''alternatives\~ When WRUC began FM broadcasting last year, it was heralded as an \alternative\ to the I suppose that \alternative\ is a handy word---it saves headline writers the trouble of saying that the Pub is a new :and different watering hole from the 'Skellar. It's much easier to say that it's an \alternative;'. Also more unimaginative. \Alternative\ is a word that sticks in the mind, something ·like hardened chewing gl,lm in a shag rug-once it gets in, no way does it get out. That's probably why the loca 1 pr~gressive radio station (which shall go .nameless) has been adver.tising itself as a \rock alternative\. There must be an alternative Spring in Schenectady does not sneak up on you-it W~Jits untH you least expect it hefore jumping out at you. It is probably one of the more delightf•il times of the year at Union. There is sometimes a pr,oblem in telling just when Spring has arrived. Is it at the vernal equinox, or when the leaves on ttie trees start to bloom, or· 'on the first day the thermometer goes above the 40 degree mark? To help alleviate - such probiems, I submit tQ the general populace the following guide. Spring has arrived on the Union Campus When: Yoii walk past Sollth College, Nott rev~ival . needs support by KEVIN SCHARY Friends of Union College,. take note! Efforts are now being coordinated by a group of students to save the Nott Memorial, the ultimate symbol · · of· Union Coliege. According -to restoration archit~ct John Mesick, in his $10,000 study \of the N ott Memorial, the deterioration of the building is occuring so rapidly that the Nott will suffer irreversible structural damage within the next 10 years. The restoration costs are enormous, but Union College is unimaginable without its Nott Memoii.al. Students and alumni . are dissatisfied with the present policy of inaction .towards Union's most prominent. feature. Therefore, students have formed a \Save our Nott Memorial'' campaign to begin discussions on raising the necessary· emergency funds. The money will have to come from all sources; students; p.arents, alumni; government, even: faculty. Students wiU have to raise a small\ amount of money · to convince alumni and others that the concern and incentive to save the building from collapse is there. After the building is saved, the college will have time to raise the necessary funds .for its final ~storation and adaptive use. A proposal is being mad'e before the Trustees this Friday at their quarterly meeting to begin the restoration of the Nott Memorial. This entails the complete repair of the dome and . roof for $25,000 this summer,,if it is possible . at that low price (another restoration architect, Mr. Paul Schafer, assures that it is.) The newly forming 11 Save Our Nott Memorial\ committee strongly sUpports this proposal. B~t this is only a start. More funds will have to l>e raised. The goal is to be achieved Without compromising the College's future programming or ability to raise funds for other purposes. The next meeting of the ••save Our Nott\ Ad Hoc Committee. which wiil focus on st1.1dent petitions union (aiming at 98 percent support for the cause), will be held in Strauss Lounge, Monday, April 26, at 8:30 p.m. -Concerned students, faculty, administrati<m. are urged to attend. Please call Joe Sen:tprevio (6572), Marcus Heth (6570), Karen Higgins (346-9212), or Kevin Schary (346-9582) for. any problems or discussion before the Monday meeting. college. · Concordiensis EDITORS-IN-CHIEF ................................ Michael Affinito, David Moskowitz CULTURE ........................................................... SUe Finkelstein, Diane Nelson NEWS ................ , ........... , ... , ............................................... : ... Audrey Rothschild SPORTS ......... , .............................................. John Busterud, Charlie Flanagan, · • Allyne Price LAYOUT ........................................................................................ Lance Travis· CI:.ASSIFIEDS ....................... , ...................................................... Hope Fabian ADS ................................................................... Sheryl Farber, Rhonda Kaplan ART ................................................................................................ lester--Weiss PHOTO EDITOR ............................................................................ Greg Cohen CALENDAR, CIRCULATION : ......................... , ....................... Joe Cappuccio CONTRIBUTING EDITOR ................................................ :······ ..... Jack Pitney COPY ....................................................... , .................................... Catby.Marthy SUBSCRIPTIONS ......................................................................... Shelley Gold NATIONAL ADS, ................................................ : ......................... :Steve Kelly PHOTO STAFF ................... , .............................. Dori Hamerman, Lori Green~, Ben Green, Mike Rotundi, Gary Price, Sue Kaplan, Alan Ster11, Neil Kronick, • Robee, Rudy Lu. Rich Guardian, Kevin Schary, Ken M~~enzie, D~:;ve Grossman STAFF THIS ISSUE ........................................... , .... Sue Kronisb, Arnie Hiller, Neil Schwartz, Pete Sobol, Carol Venezia, Bob Weinstein, Liz Pava, Dan Rosenbaum, J. Smigen, Bill Pia us, Sue Brickman, Naomi Robbins, John Bonventre CONCORDlENSIS 1$ published every Wednesday by the student body or Unlon College, Old Gym Hall, Schenectady, N,Y~; to whleh Postal Forms 3579 are directed. Publications Omce: The Je~lsh World PubUcatlons, 41(; Smith St., Seheneetady, :N.Y:. 11305 (370·5483). Entered in the Schenectady Past Oftlee as Seeond CIIQs Matter. Subscription Rate 35 cents per copy. $8.00 a year deUvered anywhere In the United States. \ and see 4 sets of speakers hanging out the windows. When one is playing Bruce Springsteen, one is playing the Beatles, unc is playing the Beach Boys, and one playing Dean Smith, spring has arrived. The potholes are fixed, in honor of parents weekend. There is talk of renovating the Nott Memorial, changing !he calendar, eliminating squatter's rights, changing the grad [ng system, loQking ror jobs, signing up for committees, budgeting Student ActiVities, and Summer Vacation. There are as many classes outsidt! the Humanities building as there are inside. · People don't go to class because of nice weather, insiead of skipping classes because of terrible weather. Jackson·s Gardens become a hotbed of activity. You see faces that you haven't seen sinc..f the third week of Fall term. ' The toil¢t: ·paper taees outside DlJ are in full bloom. A ·convertible. becomes a real West Beach and Richmond Shore sudc;l.enly become sociai asset. · populated. The piueons• ,.oo.mQ<- ba~k:.. to q::.,..,;.~l\'\ -·- It occurs to everyone that Union really is a co-ed· institution!' Carnegie. • • • ! I 1 - \ 1 1 1 Where else can you study dance and ·be in the undergraduate prelaw prog~ or fulfill a premed requirement and take a course in transfer lithography with such interesting and exciting people in a setting of hills, lakes, gorges, and waterfalls? Get requirements out of the way, complete courses to get ahead, or simply take the time to study those extraordinary things for which you?ve never before had the time. Request an Announcement and see for yourself all the reasons why we're where you should be this summer. Cornell Summer Session, 111 Day Hall, Ithaca, New York 14853

a orne no hing out. The to rms. to the only and ases, and o( the all, licose such nice, gh t'? fire; two both letters pected call this rovide e of two will ppears rock top 40 RUC's , but a is As of man a new with to music affords to well as CONCORDIENSIS. Wedne.sday, Apri/21, 1976 Paae 5 Campaign '76: Is there a candidate in the house? by MARK ABBOTT As the number of candidates for the U.S. Presidential nomination dwindles, the perennial complaint once again resounds acvoss the land-and typically too late-Why are there rw truly qualified people running for the highest office in the land'? The decline in voter turnout over the past 3 decades is a direct result of the lack of confidence Opinion: and enthusiasm generated by the caHdidates. The 1972 \landslide\ in which only 55 percent of the eligible voters participated resulted not from Dick and Spiro's overwhelming way with words, hugs from 4 feet 12 inch bl'ack singers, nor claim to fame through fo1:1r strategically located pulchritudinous alma maters-but simply from lack of choice. The probleFJ1 with the presidency is Rot (as Concordy put it), \how unimportant the job has become,\ but actually comes from the limited size of the candidate selection pooL Though cranially Mr. Carter appeared jovial, the \homecoming\ king was serious as he thanked the many better qualified members of his (Memorial Chapel) audience in the race to the oval office. And Isn't there an alternative to 'alternative'? for \alternative.\ If one can't be found, I suppose we can muddle along. But for a concept that seems to be integral to today's jargon, one word, and one word only, seems pretty slim pickings. Imagine the language if there was only one· word for \very\! this holds true not only for the flourescent Mr. Carter. The rest of the hounds are also finding it difficult to stay afloat in their pool of mediocrity. Yet this crew continues to arise from a very limited field. Rarely are presidential candidates not U.S. Senators or big state Governors, and of these most have economical, political, physical or personal problems hindering them from the self-selection process. Therefore, the field of presideRtial possibilities is severely limited to a small group of power hungry, elite politicians. Admittedly, the office of the Presidency is difficult to fill. Tho1:1gh it fiRds major constraints at every turn, it is apparently the most powerful office in the world. It is an office in need of a tryly exceptional executive, capable of leading the American people while organizing an ever-growing burea1:1cracy. He must be charismatic and eloquent to get elected, and then rnost importantly, must recognize and recruit the talent needed to direct a large complex organization. He must be persuasive and inspiring in order to deal with conflicting constituencies and a nation bent on competition. Lastly, he must a man of vision and creativity in order to guide the nation toward constructive goals. The problem is where do we find men of this caliber'? New sources must be tapped, since the present selection pool is far from producing satisfactory candidates. The place to search is not in politics but in private life. The men with Presidential talent and not hollow words are those who head corporations, banks, universities, labor unions and large civic institutions. Chief executives of major corporations have far more executive experience than Senators and often more than governors. Bankers, like corporation heads, must be highly Continued on Page 7 by DAN ROSENBAUM One of the side effects of Watergate was to highlight the erosioA of the English language. Ph~!lses such as \at this point in time,\ \prior to,\ and \subsequent to\ became part of everyday conversational English, although they have since faded from view. It would both be unfair and inm:curatc to put the onus fully on the l'i tx.on Administratwn, though, Catchphrases such as . \ongomg dwlogue,.. \detente \eyeball-to-eye ball confrontation,\ other area stations. At a recent meeting, the newly rejuvenated AM operation was referred to as the alternative to the FM operation. To my ears, it sounds as though WRUC-AM will be the alternative to the alternative. The Pub is Union's alternative to the Rathskellar. Fraternity life is. an alternative life-style (a double whammy. that) to dorm life. as is uti-campus ll\ing, or cooking lor oneself. One may find alternatives in anything one may do: there is no point tn singling out particular issues. Union's springtime metamorphosis and \thmst\ have all plagued the media at ont: time or another for the last ten year:- or so. There is a ncv. threat on the hori1on, though. One of the \irtuc~ of l'nion College i~ 1b di\er>it}. I'm not speaking of the ncar-perfect balance bct\\.ccn residents of the North and South Shores of Long bland (1, lll)sclt, tall into the latter calagor)). hut rather of the ~heer numba ol ~hoiccs that one has on thi !> ~:ampu~. I am strongly in favor of ha ~ ing such options, but I'm 1apidly gdting sick of having them called .. alternatives\. When WRUC began FM broadcasting last year, it was heralded as an \alternative\ to the I suppose that \alternative\ is a handy word it save~ headline writers the trouhle of saying that the Pub is a new and different watering hole from the 'Skellar. lfs much easier to say that it's an \alternative\ Also more unimaginative. \Alternative\ is a word that sticks in the mind. .,omething like hardened chewing gum in a shag rug once it gets in, 110 way does it get out That's prohahly why the local progressive radio station (which ~hall go nameless) has been advertising itself as a \rock alternative\. There must be an alternative by DAN ROSENBA liM Spring in Schenectady does not sneak ur on you it waits until you least expect it before jumping out at you. It is prohahly one of the more delightful times of the year at llnion. There is sometimes a prohlem in telling just when Spring has arrived. Is it at the vernal equinox. or when the le;l\ e' on the trees start to hloom. or on the fint day the thermometer goes ahovc the 40 degree mark'' To help alleviate - such problems. I suhm it to the general populace the following guide. Spring has arrived on the Union Campus When: You walk past South College, Nott revival needs support by KEVIN SCHARY Friends of Union College, take note! Efforts are now being coordinated by a group of students to save the Nott Memorial, the ultimate symbol of Union College. According to restoration architect John Mesick, in his $10,000 study of the N ott Memorial, the deterioration of the building is occuring so rapidly that the N ott will suffer irreversible structural damage within the next 10 years. The restoration costs are enormous, but Union College is unimaginable without its Nott Memorial. Students and alumni are dissatisfied with the present policy of inaction towards Union's most prominent feature. Therefore, students have formed a \Save our Nott Memorial\ campaign to begin discussions on raising the necessary emergency funds. The money will have to come from all sources; students, parents, !llumni, government, even faculty. Students will have to raise a small amount of money to convince alumni and others that the concern and incentive to save the building from collapse is there. After the building is saved, the college will have time to raise the necessary funds for its final restoration and adaptive use. A proposal is being made before the Trustees this Friday at their quarterly meeting to begin the restoration of the N ott Memorial. This entails the complete repair of the dome and roof for $25,000 this summer, if it is possible . at that low price (another restoration architect, Mr. Paul Schafer, assures that it is.) The newly forming \Save Our Nott Memorial\ committee strongly supports this proposal. But this is only a start. More funds will have to be raised. The goal is to be achieved without compromising the College's future programming or ability to raise funds for other purposes. The next meeting of the \Save Our Nott\ Ad Hoc Committee, which will focus on student petitions (aiming at 98 percent support for the cause), will be held in Strauss Lounge, Monday, April 26, at 8:30 p.m. Concerned students, faculty, administration, are urged to attend. Please call Joe Semprevio (6572), Marcus Heth (6570), Karen Higgins (346-9212), or Kevin Schary (346-9582) for any problems or discussion before the Monday meeting. union college Concordiensis EDITORS-IN-CHIEF ................................ Michael Affinito. David Moskowitz CULTURE .......................................................... Sue Finkelstein, Diane Nelson NEWS ................................................................................... Audrey Rothschild SPORTS ........................................................ John Busterud, Charlie Flanagan, · Allyne Price LAYOUT ........................................................................................ Lance Travis CLASSIFIEDS .......................................................................... : ... Hope Fabian ADS ..... _ ............................................................. Sheryl Farber, Rhonda Kaplan ART ............................................................................................... Lester Weiss PHOTO EDITOR ............................................................................ Greg Cohen CALENDAR, CIRCULATION .................................................. Joe Cappuccio CONTRIBUTING EDITOR ................................................ : ........... Jack Pitney COPY ........................................................................................... Cathy Marthy SUBSCRIPTIONS ......................................................................... Shelley Gold NATIONAL ADS ............................................................................ Steve Kelly PHOTO STAFF .................................................. Don Hamerman, Lori Green';;, Ben Green, Mike Rotundi, Gary Price, Sue Kaplan, Alan Stern, Neil Kronick, Robee, Rudy Lu, Rich Guardian, Kevin Schary, Ken McKenzie, Dave Grossman STAFF THIS ISSUE ................................................ Sue Kronish. Arnie Hiller. Neil Schwartz, Pete Sobol, Carol Venezia, Bob Weinstein, Liz Pava, Dan Rosenbaum. J. Srnigen, Bill Plaus, Sue Brickman, Naomi Robbins, John Bonvenlre CONCORDIENSIS is published every Wednesday by the student body of Union College, Old Gym Hall, Schenectady, N.Y.; to which Postal Forms 3579 are directed. Publications Office: The Jewish World Publications, 416 Smith St., Schenectady, N.Y. 11305 (370-5483). Entered in the Schenectady Post Office as Second Class Matter. Subscription Rate 35 cents per copy. $8.00 a year delivered anywhere in the United States. and !>CC 4 scb ol !>peakers hanging out the v.tndov. ~- When one i:-. playmg Bruce Spnng~tccn, one ~~ playmg the Bcatk~. one ~~ pia} tng the Beach Bo) '· and one pia) mg Uean Smllh, ~pnng hc.1~ arrt\ed. I he potholes arc fixed. 1n honor ol parcnb \\.ed.cnd I here is talk ol reno\ating I he :\ott :'\.krnonal, t:hanging the cakndar, eliminating \-iUatter\ nghb, changmg the gr<td tng ~}stem, lookmg tor Jobs, ''gn1Hg up lor committee~. hudg~:ting Student :kti\ ttlc~. and Sunun~::1 Vacatwn . I here arc as man} d.t~~c~ outside the llumanitic~ hui!Jing as there arc msuie. People don't go to da~~ because ol mce weather, lll~tcad ol skippmg das>CS because of tcrnblc v.eathcr. Jacbun·~ Gardens bccnrnc a hotbed of acti\ity. You ~cc !ace~ that )UU ha\cn't :-.een ~me.: the third v.cck uf Fall tc r m. I he toilet paper tl ccs oub1dc UU arc m lull bloom. \\est Beach and R idunond A ..:on\crtihlc bccom~::~ ..1 rc<tl social asset. Shore suddenly become populated. · The pigeons- _come· back to Carnegie. - - It occurs to eve~yone that Union really is a co-ed institution! • • • ! ; 1 - Cl 1 1 1 - Where else can you study dance and be in the undergraduate prelaw program or fulfill a premed requirement and take a course in transfer lithography with such interesting and exciting people in a setting of hills, lakes, gorges, and waterfalls? Get requirements out of the way, complete courses to get ahead, or simply take the time to study those extraordinary things for which you've never before had the time. Request an Announcement and see for yourself all the reasons why we're where you should be this summer. Cornell Summer Session, 111 Day Hall, Ithaca, New York 14853

8th Annual S.gma Chi Spring Clambake, May 8th from 3-6. Free admission to Band Party with ·purchase of clambake ticket or $1.00 at door. Band/Concert featuring \Exitus and the Pied Pipers,\ good Disco band, 9-1 A.M. Tickets: month of April, $3.50; month of May, $4.00; at door, $4.50. Transportation provided to and from Girling Center. Prop List for the Lady's Not For Burning. If anyone has any of the following items, please contact Debbi Slotoroff at 370-6701 as soon as possible. Thank You. Small writing table, large hand~mirror, nail buffer,:, large powder puff, tall thick candle, candle stands, long wooden matches, parchment, firetongs, .lanterns, tankards (beer mugs with tops), 5 wine bottles, inkwell, abacus, canvas stool, large cross. Attention Freshmen and Sophomores: We know of a few summer jobs. If you are interested, please come to the Placement Office for more information. Anyone interested in working on next year's Freshman Orientation in any capacity - advising, writing and typing, working on the Freshman Record, or whatever - sign up this week in Student Activities with Mrs. Marra. We need lots of people who are willing to work hard, so sign up now. The Cla~sifle~;'-Page of the N~;; CONCORDIENSIS is primarily a student service; as such, alii material submitted will be published FREE of charge_. To insure that the items submitted are printed, all copy MUST be in by Monday at 8:00 PM. Items to be repeated must have the number of runs specified. The Union CoUege CONCORDIENSIS assumes- uo responsibility for ·typographical errors, but will print a correction. If you want a ride, or you have something to sen, or you simply want to see something (}f your own printed up in a major world publication, PLEASE, don't hesitate! This is a FREE service, so take advantage of it. If you wish to submit! material which conforms to the format of the Classifieds Page, simply slip it under the Concordy _Offiee door (3rd floor CaJ;\negie) or give to Hope Fabian_ at Richmond 105. . .. \\~ ~ WRUC needs contestants for the first episode of its new show, \The Game Show,\ which will air on Wednesday, May 5th at 9:00pm on WRUC. This is not trivia. \The Game Show\ is a fast moving quiz show that'll really challenge your memory. If you liked those TV quiz shows (Jeopardy, Split Second, etc.), then you'll love our game. Serious and responsible contenders are needed from dormitories, fraternities and faculty/administration of Union College. A notice was sent out to the faculty/ administration, RA's and fraternity presidents about the show. Check with these people for details or contact Steve Geloso at 346-9973 if interested. AU entries should be submitted no later than April 24. Members of WRUC are not eligible as contestants. The Conservation Society of Southern Vermont is looking for people with backgrounds or well- developed interests in the natural sciences for summer employment in a Summer Conservation School for Children. Anyone wishing to apply for a position should have had some prior camping experience. For more information, come to the Placement Office. The music workShop will resum!l on the Union College campus on April 25. It will be'a workshop devoted to folk music in all of its styles ~ traditional, ballads, blues, ragtime and contemporary. It will also feature demonstrations and instruction on the guitar, the banjo, the mandolin, the piano, the bass and the harmonica. In residence will be Jim Shorser, .Stephen Grayman, Ruth Rappaport, and Leslie Goldstein sharing their tunes and listening to yours. So all of you who may be aspiring musicians on any level or maybe just want to swap a song or two, bring your instruments and join us in Old Chapel this Sunday and every Sunday from 3-5 in the afternoon. Please contact Norm Walbeck if you are interested in participating in or helping run the INS simulation this term. It will be run on May 14, 15, 16. Any faculty or staff member interested :Jn working at any Cabaret (Thurs. nights), please contact Mrs. Marra at the Student Activities Office.(6118). For Sale: Fiat 124 ~ Spider Convertible '74 (Yellow) with 45,000 miles. Good .condition. $2,800. Call 370-6550. For sale: Stereos, 2 great deals. I) Pioneer SA-137, Dual 1228 with Empire 200E/lll Cartridge, Cerwiii\' Vega model 214 speakers. Speakers are incredibly efficient and super lQud, making system a great deal for $700. 9 months old, perfect condition. 2) Realistic ST A-80 amp (22 watts/ ch.) Garrard 82 changer with Picketing cartridge and JBL 26 Decade speakers. Good system, the JBL's alone make it Worth the !ow . price of $475. Call Bill at 346-8549 anytime. Wanted: Back . Pack With interior frame. Cal1372-6010. For sale: Apartment furniture in goof condition. Chairs, tables, sofa, dining room set; and more. Very reasonable, call372-6010. Teac Cassette Deck and 32 C-90's for sale. See Tim at 363 K.A. · For sale: 1971 VW Bug - excellent body and running condition. New muffler, valves, tires. Call 274-3672 eves. and weekends. TDDAY'S CROSSIDID PVZZLI Last teek~s ••nlisatttt Stereo Cassette Decks for sale: Teac- 160, high quality recordings; Dolby system, full features, $150.00, .retails $279 new, only 9 months old (2 yr. warranty). Panasonic Cassette Deck, good recording on most systems at a lower price. One year old~ retails $149 new, selling fot $50.00, will dic)(er. Call Elven or Kevin at 346-9582. ACROSS 1 Baseballer ----Musial 5 Card game\ .9 Shelley, for one 14 Pisa's river 15 Russian river 16 Devilfish 17 Predatory onset 18 1949 pact: Abbr. 19 \lend me -- ....... '' 20 Dosome- . thing 21 Sell tli>O cheaply 23 Funeral vehicles 25 Final 26 lamprey 27 Formulate a scheme 29 Negative pre- fix 32 Composition 35 Cheat: slang 36 Blood: Prefix 37 Russian.river 38 Heavy foot- fall 39 Sale condi- tion: 2 words 40 Charts 41 Habitation 42 Indistinct 43 Theater sign: Abbr. 44 Male children r::T7r.T::'I 45 Gained 46 Papal name 48 Boat harbors ·52 Bedspread 56 Aardvark's tidbit 57 Not rented 58 Strong-smell· ing 59 Latvian capi- tal 60 Boiler incrus· tation 61 Ofsound mind 62 State 63 \··-·· mud in · your eyel\ 64 Observer 65 Vivacious DOWN 1 MissChur- chill 2 Track 3 Santa-···· 4 limd of··- 5 Smokestack 6 Arum plants 7 Estimate 8 Whistling swan 9 Nebraska na- tive 10 Messrs. An· drewsand Bible 11 Passivity 12 Male animal ' 13 Counter· weight 21 Future user 22 Holding de- vice 24 As···-- a beet 27 Carriages 28 Linden tree 30 Passover 31 Prying: ln- .formal 32 Trees 33 Rush head- long 34 Not liked at all 35 Men of ---·: USC's ath· letes 36 West Indies nation 38 Oarlock sub· stitute 42 Greaterin degree 44 Isolated hills 45 Newfound- land airport 47 Anoint: Archaic 48 Neighbor of Quebec 49 Ingenuous 50 Fury 51 Commence· ment 52 Noah's grandson 53 Onetime only 54 ····of Shar- on 55 Forward pass, for one 59 Strike FOR SALES For 8alc: Bruce Springsteen album, \Born to Run\; never been opened- $3.99, can370..0I59 · For Sale: Stereo Components-. Kenwood KR-70 FM Stereo Receiver. 35 watts/channel: $80. Sony TC-377-3 head reel to reel tape deck: $150. Package deal available for.both. Call377-2714. For Sale: Clll', 1973 Audi Fox. 31,000 miles, PJB, A/C, AM/FM Stereo, 4 spd., manual trans., 24 mpg city, 28 highway, excellent mechanical condition, very good body, $3,000 - can 377-2714 For sale: 1974 Red Opel Manta in excellent condition with AM/ FM radio, low mileage and rear window defogger. $3,100.00. Call372-1681. April· 22 Women's Lacrosse, Union vs. Colgate University, 4 p.m., Away. Senior Job Game Workgroup-For more information, see the Placement Newsletter or contact John Sollazzo at the Placement Office. Sign-up sheets and room information are at the Placement Office. 7-10:30 p.m., Placement Office. DaYid Sancious, jazz-rock, 8:30 p.m., RPl Union. $1.00 and $2.00 Styx, Leslie West Band, and Earl Slick Band, 8 p.m., Palace Theatre,. Clinton Ave., Albany. • s.so and $6.50. April 23 . Varsity Golf, RPI, Middlebury, Albany, and Union, l p.m. Away. The 1976 Region Ill ASME Stuilent' Conference, will be hosted by Union. Student speakers representing schools from Northern New York State will compete. 2 to 4 p.m. in SS016. Varsity Baseball, Union vs. Clark University, 3 p.m., Alexander Field. Tired of watching all your favorite TV shootouts, cartoons, soap operas and stock car races iri dull and unexciting bla~k and white? Why not get thoroughly addicted? We are looking to sell our 8 month old 19 inch G.E. color portable to any lucky person who makes the right bid. If you are interested, please call 346- 6653, so that you can make arrangements to see the product in action. Oh yes, please don't call during any great T.V. spectacular, like. Star Trek or the Six O'Clock Sports Report with Rip Rowan as we are in deep meditative bliss at these times. ' W()men's Softball, Union vs. RPI, 4 p.m., Library Field. Faculty-Student Wine and Che.ese Get together, 4:30 p.m., Edwards House. ... April 24 Varsity Tennis, Union vs. Siena College, 11:30 a.m., Home Courts. . Rugby, Union vs. Albany Medical College, I p.m. Away. Conclusion of 1976 Region HI ASME Student Conference, 4:30, Edwards House. Varsity Lacrosse, Union vs. Middlebury College, 2 p.m., Garis Field. Junior Varsity Lacrosse, Union vs. Middlebury College, 2 p.m. Daly Field. Varsity Track, Union vs. Rochester University, 2 p.m. A·way.. -- Varsity Baseball, ·Union vs. Middlebury College, 3 p.m., Alexander Field. Hoedown · (Rock-disco-foik dancing until who knows when!!) Big Brother I Big Sisters of Union College will be sponsoring a Hoedown. It will feature the country rock band, Badge, and RUC remote, and plenty of Roommate Needed to share beautiful apt. t\1 ·blocks from campus on Van VranJ\en Ave. Stores, laundromat, etc.. within one block. Reasonable rent. Call 393-8743. Wanted for 1976-77 sebool year - A two bedroom apartment close to campus. If you are living in one now or know of one in the area, please call Cindy or Marjie at 370-6638. LOST&FOUND Lost: one gold, hoop earring outside Psychology .building. If found, please call Lori ~~:t 370-6733. Lost: one silver hoop earring. lf found, please call 6140, - Ride Wanted to ltllaca, N. Y. or Syracuse on April 23 (afternoon} to Aptil25. Call Da11at 374-7663; Ride Wanted to anywhere in Pennsylvania .or to New York City on Friday, April 23. Please call Steve at 370-6669 or 6688. •' i Ricky Beef, please come home. All is forgiven. I love you. the Captain. ln responsk to the plea for tile return of Mr. Beefsk l for one dori't wish him to return. He only serv.es as a sourcek of great embarasskment to the floor. A Pusky like him shouldn't be allowed to run loosk. -Popeye For all. t®se people who ·wish to explore the fun and interesting world of Hershey, Penn., contact The Greek · on second floor West Affy please come pick up your goldfish Sam, he misses you very much .and will not eat since you ran out on him. Your fellow fish lover, Mt. Beef. I tricked ya Bruno. Freddie Blassie To M.B.G.- Thanks for ride Mason, YOU TURKEY!! You were absolutely correct about being an . . • • • • ! ! See you in the Chemistry Study Room. Coach Bear and The Mohawk Mall Marching Band cheap refreshments. There . are only a limited number of tickets available for $1.00 in Mrs. Marra's office. A few tickets might be sold at the door. Come and celebrate the MCA T' .s. April 25 Union ·College Glee Club with the Wheaton Glee Club, at Old South Church, Boston, American Bicentennial Songs. For further information contact the Arts Department, Union College, 370- 6201~ 6202·. . April 26 Intellectual Cabaret. Professors Paul Mason and Bob Wells will discuss 200 l: Prospects and Prophecies. Free Refreshments, everyone welcome. Cabaret Room, Carnegie, 8:30 p.m. April 29 Computer lecture, 6:30 in SSOI6. Dr. John Hutchinson of G.B. will speak on the topic of PDP;. I I mini-computer systems and RSX-11, RSDS operating systems. Admission free. Refreshments. - .... - -· ! crea exp1 maj nati Pre mOl ma1 rec1 job COil (i( H R SJ \1 st 8: F F 31 fi e \'1 ,h a C· g a d ( (J ' I f • •' I •

:. If or to in at .is ish a to to on, an are T' ith sors will and ret in n of of terns ... CONCQRDf£NSfS, Wedne~dt;y, April]<]; .1:!).16\·\ ,- Filling the abyss creative executives while being experts at ope of the .President's major r-es·ponsibilities~the national budget and economy. Presidents of universities have more intellectual depth and managerial prowess than any recent U.S. president. All these jobs deal with vastly diversified constituencies and a variety of Continued front Page 5 human and economic crises. They require forward planning, charisma, and unique leadership, as does the office of the Presidency. Befo.re reforming the presidential primary system, we must first start with men of sufficiently high caliber. A suggestion may· he to ha':e groups of leaders in all fields meet to select candidates for the primaries . from among those ipterested and capable of taking on the challenge. We must somehow get - more of the quality people out of private life and into competition with the politicians in the race to the oval office. Union College Hillel, in commemoration of Yom march to boston HaShoah . _ .(Holocaust Rem~mbr$nce day) is Continued from Page 5 sponsoring a free film, entitled \The Last Chapter.\ It will be . shown on Monday, Apri126 at. · 8:00 pm in Butterfield 204. Following the film, Professor Freund and .Serk will speak and lead a discussion on the film. This Hillel spom;ored event is open to the public. The Task Force on Athletics will hold the first of its open ,hearings on Monday, April26 at 7 pm in SSUO. All concerned individuals and groups are encouraged to appear at these hearings and discuss the future of Union (()liege's athletic program. .In order to avoid an unnecessary wait, please contact Prof. Elizabeth Mansfield at 6231 for an appointment. - rights. \Such an action can produce a great outpouring of pro- desegration sentiments. An atmosphere can be ·created to allow Black students and families and progressive whites to ~peak out and testify to the atrocities of the anti-busing movement.\ Although .not widely reported in the national press, the racist violence has increased in recent months starting With th.e firebombing of the Boston NAACP headquarters. Since then there have been beatings of Black students at Hyde Park and south Boston High Schools, arson attacks against Blacks moving to new neighborhoods, midnight wrecking of school buses with darhage in the tens of thousands, and threats and intimidation· ag!linst Wllites who support desegration or dare to send their children to school in opposition to nicist boycotts. The · vicious beating of Black attorney Theodore Landsmark outside of Boston city hall was only' one of many incidents in which Blacks have been attacked by racist mobs on the streets .of Boston. c~o'bi~ lncen.s( & · -- The racists have been in a continued state of mobilization, providing the forces · tpat have virtually taken over the political institutions of Boston, organizing demonstrations of thousands, and working for the most blatantly racist of the Democratic Presidential candidates . There has been no corresponding mobilization of the Black community and its allies since the successful NAACP March Against Racism last May 17. That march drew 15,000 people making it the largest civil rights demonstration in a decade. The Albany Student. Coalition Against Racism is organizing locally to attend the April 24 March on Boston. Those interested in further information or wishing to attend should contact Dan McNett, telephone 372-1270. Transportation will be by bus. and/or private automobiles. Funds are desperately needed to assure an effective area participation. Let us make sure that the plight of Boston is not forgotten in the hoopla of the bicentennial and election year inanities. · Dan McNett 374-5921 . GEORGE'S MUSIC STORE Student Discounts 508 State St. . Schenectady · 5\tl ~q~ 411. ~E-'T ~ClncCetafbe<f ft.IUs ;,., ~ ~GA ~\)f'\UOi.$8 11- ,:Sten.otrf (Jf~S Gershon's Delicatessen . =ewerl.~ 1>tipesJ Cl·;p~ ~&;t\'ib 1600 Union St. 397-0617 Fine Goods Records ·as Frisbees Continued from Page 3 of the most important figures i~ Starcastle will .develope . further the development of rock, as you into a real supergroup. B Plus may remember. I'm still waiting Roy Harper, Wilen An Old for any of the ex-Beatles to do Cricketer Leaves The Crease something that would be a credit (Chrysalis) There are several to their talent. l hope I won't notable things about this album. ·have to wait much longer. It has the laws of cricket on the Statcastle (Epic) A pleasure. back, for all of you who have Starcastle is the answer to the prayers of those who miss Rick Wakeman's incarnation of Yes. They have all the Yes riffs down pat, and they do them better than Yes does themselves. Not really a rip-off, but rather heavily · always been curious. Also, John Paul Jones tof Led Zeppelin) is on this one. The music is interesting, although a bit repetitive. Not really hard rock,. although there is a definite solid guitar beat throughout. Maybe not for your taste, bu I recommend it as somethig a bit out of the ordinary. ;8 . dyrivative. The best cuts ~re \Lady of the Lake\ and \To The Fire Wind,\ although most everything is excellent, With any luck, Larries Top Varsity Niners by RED THAU Rookie sensation Hayseed Thau broke out of his sophomore slump and hurled a perfect game yesterday yieldbag only one walk ancl striking out John \Bmladous . Rudeman\ Busterud four times on twelve pitches. Overwight and over-the-hill Charley \·Batfish\ Flanagan absorbed his twenty-first loss in as ·many games. He was tagged for forty-seven run~ · before heading to the showers before an out had been recorded in the first frame. Jane Jane Ill, {Capitol) A band· out of Hannover, West Germany. This album is a fine argument for increasing the import duties. Attemped' psychedelia some l 0 years late. Jane is even worse than Kraftwerk, . (remember \Autobahn\?) if such.·, a thing is possible. This record is worthless - it doesn't taste good as a pizza, even smothered with tomato sauce, and rm sure it isn't kosher for Passover. The album doesn't even make it as licorice! The same recommendation holds here as it does for Ethos (see above). The exercise would be good for you. F- =======ARNOW SHOES•-II:Iillll:-=-=--•1 O'UR GREATEST SPRING ~®~~~ MosT SHOES IN THIS SALE OR LOWER. WERE to 39.9S • Etienne Aicner • Amalfi • ~~na Vel..-et;, ~o..;,vs ~J3o'!,l4 \tlwl.J>OJ\te.cC ~S><lsW;$ ~H}hCOI'IC Alo'bum:s t\a :~::::::::: To Go or Stay :;:;:::::~: \\\\\\\11\\\tl\\~%!\\§$!§\ti!i!K~i\H1i!i~!~~!i~!J\!Wl\l\%!~\i~ii~i • Bass Weeiun • Caressa UNION COLLEGE'S Black ·Student Alliance PRFSEN1S Ra10sey Lewis & Tlte,FATBACK BAND APRIL 25TH - THIS SUNDAY NIGHT! AT 7PM IN ACHILLES RINK TICKETS Ramsey Lewis' New Album- . . \Don't it Feel Good\ $3. UNION STUDENTS (only tooo available).. · S4 . .. · Fatback Band-. . \Raisin Hell\ ., $5. OTHERS· Tickets can be pleked up at . . Mn. Marra's omee or at the Door There will be a $50 Prize for the Best Dressed Couple ~ Choose It Cha'V• lt ... • Bare Traps • fred Braun • SRO of Spain · • Elditas ALL SALES FINAL Open Tues. & Thurs. 'til 9 408 State St. \DOWNTOWN\ -Schenectady

concordy sports Laxwomen go down twice The UCOLL Women's Lacrosse team got off to a disappointing start this past Saturday, losing 12~ I on their home turf to Hartwick. Hartwick, a much more experienced and aggressive team took command early in the game and established an 8-0 half-time lead. The hot weather seemed to slow everyone dqwn and by the second half they only managed to score four points with Union Goalie Louise Dunn SI:\Ving an incredible amount of would-be goals. Union',c; lone goal came towards the end of the second half when third home Allyne Price. managed to get free at the point and scored on a beautiful pass by second home Meg Winsor, to prevent the shut- out. At Smith on Monday, the girls again had a bit of trouble ,putting their game together. This time they were down 7-0 at the half when Judy Haddad, a freshman goalie, came in and sparked the Union .defense with all of her talking and quick stick action, only letting in four goals out of approximately twelve shots taken. The offense also started to pull together in the second half. Right wing Eileen Thomas scored unassisted on a break-away play whe!1 she picked up the loose ball in her defensive territory, and sprinted all the way jn for the score. A few minutes later on a free-position penalty, Meg Winsor passed it in to Allyne Price, who also ran in to put the ball away. The last goal came when Eileen Thomas passed the ball in to first home Lee Russell, who then scored with a fraction of a second left in the game. The girls have clearly shown their betterment, especially on defense, against a team which last year they lost to 21-3. The Laxwomen, in their first year as a Varsity sport have shown great improvement from last ye~r's club. The girls are playing-·more as a team, their .passing, strategies, and aU ether aspects of the game have .begun to work for them. This is partly due to a new Coach._ Kathy Schatz of Cortland, who has stressed the teamwork in.the girlS' practices. lt \is also due to· the players themselves, their attitude towards the .game has improved as well as their skills. This )'ea~:'i team is bound to develo\p a winning record, and should be watched. The girls travel to Colgate on Thursday, and J:eturn home for three games next week on Tuesday, Thursday, and Friday afternoons. The girls enjoyed aU the support they got last Saturday, come out again next week and watch! - .,,....x::-stfi ~ ,, Not even an encouraging wag from a campus local c.ould prevent Unfon's luxwomen from · dropping their opener._ Lacrosse at 2~1 by NEAL ADAM SCHWARTZ Union's second win of the season came last Wednesday over Siena by another romp of 23-4. Siena wasn't any competition for the Union stickmen. The Siena goalie wasethe only standout for the Siena squad. In what could have been their toughe11t game of the season, Union lost to Syracuse, a team that is ranked 19th in the country in the University Division (DIV. I), by a 16-13 score. · In the Siena game, attacker John Thompson had one goal but an ever-present six assists. · Attackman Jed l<.anner had 3 goals and 3 assists, Hank Fleming scored four goals and two assists, while Stu Napear netted three Union's coach spoke highly of goals and two assists. The middies ·freshman goalie Ala.n Greenberg who saw scoFing. were Jim who saw his first start. In a tough Thompson with five scores and . game for anyone, Alan collected one assist while another senior 21 saves· in the nets .. Ken Beck · Don Ward, shot the ball pas past was termed \outstanding\ by the goalie four times. Jim Felix Allison regarding his performance • had a good day in Loudonville on the artificially surfaced Coyne . With J goals and an assist. Field last Saturday in Syracuse. The word for Union at Siena · Ray Steckee ha,d a :worthwhile was domination; the Dutchman Saturday with a total of 5 goals pounded . out 71 shots in and 3 assists.while the ThomP\son comparison to just 20 for their A brothers. Jim and John, ad(led opponment. Steve Haddad had three and two goals respectively. seven saves in the net_s While his Andy arooks, Don Ward and teammate AI Greenberg had nine John Breault also netted shots. saves while protecting the goal. A very important game was In describing the 1'6-13 loss, played against Williams today. Softpersons off on a tear Coach Allison thought Syracuse's Williams is ranked No. 14 fn the midfielden~ were quicker than our nation in the College Division, own. The game saw few which implies a tough ctintest for substitutions and was close with 4 the Dut(:hman. Although Union minutes to_ go in the third period has not played Williams with Syracuse leading by a 10-8 consistently, the last time Union score. At the end of the third saw a win was in 1955_:before period, Syracuse went on an some- -Union · Colleg¢ students by DIANA GAZZOLA The Union College Diamond Ladies made a spectacular showing of their potential and ability with their impressive win over Schenectady C.C. The star- Yager t.aking credit for the win: The Diamond Ladies went on the road Monday to battle Smith College. With a relatively small team the Starlets. again showed their ''tuffness\ and hard-nose playing bv beating Smith 7-5. Yager Bear had 3 strike-outs and ·only allowed 6 hits. Contributing in runs to our ladies' second win were .. Kess\ by going 4 for 4lead off triple double and two singles, followed by Yager Bear's home run in the third inning. It should be mentioned that our girls, under the torment of such not weather, outclassed the Smithies by avoiding a little brawl with Ronnie . Zanker at first base. Smith showed poor sportmanship conduct in this incident. The \tuffness\ award undoubtedly goes to Gwen Young for surviving continuous abuse from the Smithies. RPI ventures to Union on Friday at 4 p.m. Come to Library Field Friday and support the stars! ··offensiv~. spree and· scored six were born. straight goals to bring their lead Syracuse was a good game for to 16•8. The mom~ntum of Union, according to Allison, \It Syracuse's offense maintained for gave the team more confidence the last four minutes of the third than ever.'' This is due to the fact period and the beginning of the that Syracuse . was probably one 4th per~od as well. Aft~r S ytacuse of the uip 3- ~~ 4. teams Union will: scored Its last g-<;>al, Umon called a face tlus· year. time out to regroup their forces Union faces Middlebury; a and prese1;1ted Syracuse with 5 team with an excellent reputation, unanswered goals. Allison this Saturday at 2 p.m. on Daley commented, \We came back Field before a large spring crowd. strong, but not strong enough .. .lt was a good overall team effort.\ ,------------. . studded Ladies touched the plate 49 times to S.C.C.'s two. In the first inning Union dusted up the plate with \26\ runs to S.C. C.'s 0. There are many factors which contributed to the lopsided score; a tuff and tight fielding, Liz \Yager Bear's\ fired up pitching and Cathy ''Hustler\ Reals's 8 hits and 6 RBls. AU the action took place in the third inning when Barb \Kess\ and Elaine Baldwin did a little bump while trying to get a blooper over the short-stop's head. Also in the third inning, Perky Francis was robbed of a clean homerun (right into the rugby field) when the Umps called it a ground rule double. Baseball reels in early tilts Softball standings In late results, the team edged RPl by a score of 10-9 with Lynn by CELERINO SANCHEZ The Garnet nine continued their inconsistent play this past week, dropping encounters to Siena, Albany State and RPI. Pitching remained the team's weakness as the opposition plated thirty-one runs and. pounded out total of thirty-two hits in three games. However the week was not a total disaster. Don Milder, Dan DeGregory Gary Borgese and Freshman Chris Massaroni each collected two hits while Jerry Logan smashed an impressive bases loaded knocking in all three runners against the highly touted Indians from Siena. This Netmen sputter early This has been a week the Union College tennis team would like to forget. Our boys played two matches and still have no victories this spring. On Tuesday Williams College took all six singles matches and all 3 doubles to boot. Even though the outcome looks bad, many of the matches were close, and Williams is one of the better college tennis teams in the East. On Thursday, Clark came to the Union tennis courts and went away with another . victory. by MASON B. GOMBERG Dennis Lindenberg, first singles, played one of his better matches of the year. He defeated Mike Johnson, 7-5, 6-3. Second singles player Steve Marcus took Dave Howell to 3 sets but lost 5-7, 6-2, 6-3. Bob Gerbet playing third singles for the first time this year lost 6-l, 6-0. Chuck Hoffman, Rolf Lipton, and Paul Wantuck also Went down in defeat 6-2, 6-1, 6-4, 6-4; and 7-6,. 6-0 respectively.· Union did manage to win the doubles col1lpetition. Lindenberg and Lipton won their match 6-4, . . 6-4 and Gerber and Wantuck overpowered their opponents 6-0, 6-0. In all due respect, the record of 0-3 is not a proper indication of our team's play. the coaching has tremendously improved over the last few years but inexperience and youth has been nurting the team. 1 am sure that as the season progresses we will see improved play and a decent record. The Tennis Team would like to take this opportunity to thank the few fans who cheered on the better team during their match. offensive thrust wasn't enough, though, l!.s the Redmen came from · behind to whip the Dutchman 13-6. Against the Gread Danes from Albany State, Union again caine up on the short end of the fungo bat losing 10-7. Weather proved to be a factor, as 90 degree temperatures played havoc with CharlieFianagan's bod, tiring him to the point of surrendering three runs in the eighth allowi11g Albany to eclipse a hard fought Union lead. John Busterud paced the offense, walloping three hits . Also banging out hits were Randy Ruschak, Dan DeGregory, Jerry Logan Grary Borgese and rookie Whit Kennedy. National Lea&ue A TEAM W L Delta Chi 3 0 Ffji A Team 2 0 The Plague l 0 Masterbatters 3 . 1 The Sweathogs 3 1 TheLodge I I The DQmer$ 1 2 The Spacemen 1 2 Sigma Phi 0 2 The Osh-koles 0 3 3rd Fl. Davidson So. 0 3 \ American Leacue A TEAM W L SigmaChi 3 0 Phi Delta Theta DuckS2 0 The Rookies 2 0 DeltaPhi 2 0 Psi U l 0 Tile Faculty 2 1 DU 0 2 The Cliquot Club 0 2 Uncle John's Band 0 2 The Coudo Bros. lnc. 0 2 The Anlazin Hicks 0 3 T 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 T 0 0 1 1 1 0 l 0 0 0 0 The latest Garnet defeat came at the hands of the Turkies from RPI 8-3. Astrong-arrned ertgineer limited the Dutchman to 7 hits and 3 runs while striking out 13. Carmen Gatta swatted two base knocks ... and Chris Massaron't banged a two run single. Gary Borgese and Jerry Logan each collected a double· while John .L----------....--..-----.1 Busterud and Don Milder reached base on singles. on Se stt ap Pr re1 stt ca ce w in 3.I st: to pl S1 bl Sf f~ I tl VI t• .s a v 'Y s c . ( f

·.' ..... _ ,---------~--------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ • un1on coll~ge Vol. lOS, No. 20 Wednesday, April 28, 1976 .. • on cor tensts Senators Brief and Daniels vote .on proposal to · institute Freshmen course in composition. Senate tne(Jts: • Tuition· raised to $4200 for '77-'78 by DAVID MOSKOWITZ Union College's tuition for the academic year of 1977-78 will be raised to an all-time high of $4200, an increase of $450 beyond next year's tuition of $3750. The increase was approved by the Board of Trustees at their April 22 meeting following · approval of the proposal by the Planning and Priorities Committee. According .to Provost Willard Enteman, chairman of the committee, the Trustees unanimous decision was made ••reluctantly,'' but with the knowledge that the increase was necessary. \The vast majority af the increase will go to compensation and financial aid,\ said the Provost, although be explained that the problems facing Union are nationwide. Past Increases ln a letter to the Board of Trustees, Enteman charted the path of Union's increasing tuition. • In 1974-1975, with a tuition· of Enteman. He thinks that Union $3060, Union ranked 18th on a will then stand 12th on the list of list 35 colleges considered to be 35 comparable schools. Reducing Union's competitors. For 1976· the rate of tuition increase - 1977, Union had jumped to $3750 Fequires that the national and !.6th position on the list, still economy remains reasonably near the mid-way point. Enteman under control, and assumes there said, \If none of the other colleges will be an increasing amount of changed their tuitions between non-tuition souFces of income, . 1975-1976 and 1976-1977, Union's Enteman, explains. tuition would be in the top 15 The Provost explained that percent.\ The colleges did much of 'the increase will go to increase their tmttons, and financial aid: \These programs Enternan fee'ls that a similar trend rnust be given help to enable a will hold after the announcement viable program in the face of such of Union's hike is made. an increase.\ A project that would Future Increases insure \educational innovation\ Tuition will continue to in academic programs is in the increase at a rate of $450 per year planning stages. As Enteman for another year, says Enteman, explains, the program will with. the hope that the. rate will provide a \means of bringing in decrease to$350 and then$.300-per new programs to attract year. \Our objective should then students ... Union can move ahead be to level the rate of tuition substantially and innovatively ... increase and begin to attempt to ~ and become recognized ~s o~e of turn that rate of increase in a the few strong leaders m h1gher _negative direction,\. d t . \ .d e uca wn. 8 at · • he tuition increase is also \related to the decline in state Students denied VOICe Ill tenure appeals aid,\ said Enteman. He explained that many students will have already decided to attend private by DAVU> MOSKOWITZ By a close·yote of 12 to ·U, with one abstention, the College Senate voted yesterday to deny students any input into the tenure appeals process at the level .of the, Presidential Advisory Board. exclusion from other committes in the ,governance str,ucture. The Presidential Advisory Board's student members presently take part in all decisions other than tenure appeals cases, in which cases they are asked to leave. Other opposition to students' · presence in tenure appeals' cases came. from Division. H, whose sentiment .was expressed by Professor Daniels: \student presence would not add any new perspectives.\ According to student senator Andy Koblenz, the decision marked \another case where the spirit of student participation in the governance system has been violated,\ Brief concluded, \what can we do? The students lose again.\ colleges, and will do so despite the tuition hike. The Provost concluded that Union's careful budgetary planning for the years ahead will \bring to Union the recognition it so richly deserves as one of the finest colleges in the country.\ The vote comes after much recent de'i:!ate on the subject of students' hearing faculty appeals cases. The Senate discussion centered around the question of whether student input should be initiated at this, the end .of the Repair of Nott roof proposed appeals process. \We shouldn't . by ~IKE AFFINITO . start student participationn at the Pa~l Schaefer, a re~toratwn top (last stages· of the tenure archttec.t, has submttted .a process),\ commented Dean of~· proposal to ~e College to rep~u Students Mark Smith. the rq~f of the Nott Mem?nal. Student Senators voted in a .Accordmg to Pr?vost Wtllard block, with all lO ·representatives, Enteman, the ~roJected cost of as well as Division I faculty the u.ndertaktng would be senator Paul Le Clerc voting in approxm~ately ~25,000. . favor of the tenure prooosal. Vice Mr. Schaef.ens an area arch1tect President Matt Brief pointed out and ~as. done .~uc.h wo:k. on that student sentiment-and voting refur.bts~ng d~btl. 1 t.ated h1;1rldmgs · ·1 t 1 ·f 1 · d on the of htstortcal stgruftcance m Ne.w was comp e e y um e y k. S . H. h d topic of official tenure input form or - tate. e, · as . restore t d i Brief said that \students about fifty houses m the Stockade :r~ e~ s~tified\ b their being area of Schenectady, he has also . y . Y. . d h restored the Lake George wntten out of dec1s10ns un er t e 1 . f H' d S · year-old governance systemf' He . nstltute Q tstory an . . c1en~e stated that only students could m ~ake George. Afi:other of hts comment on the teachi~'abilities pr~Je~ts. was the Ehphalet Nott . of faculty before adding th,at , :~~~~J. on Nott Road in· faculty were were not necessanly M S Ita [i . h informed enough to· comment on . r_. c ~ er says . e can the scholarship of faculty in other guarantee t~t t.he roof of the f . ld D' . . III t'aculty'senator Nott Memonal wtll be leak proof. te s. 1V1s10n p · · t E t · 'd \If h' · Ken Schick agreed that student rovos. n eman sat ' · t l~ ts participation in the process did true, 11 wo~ld .. b~ a . maJor not necessitate their having voting breakthrough m s~vtn~ the Nott pow~rs. The final vote included one abstention, that of Division l's Hugh Wilson. Professor Wilson felt that . a vote on the issue could not be made without information about student Geoff Taylor and · Chris Taylor, student representatives to the Union College Board ·of Trustees, will be available to all students for comments and questions regardi:flg the last board meeting ·in Strauss Lounge at 6:30p.m. thursday, April 29. Issues sueh as tenure and the Nott Memorial will be . discussed. . ~ - from further detenoratton.\ While no one on the Board is against looking into the proposal, some members of the Board of Trustees - particularly those who have an association with the construction business are skeptical of the low estimate Mr. Schaefer has submitted. In view of this, the Board has ask;;d that Mr. Schaefer submit a detailed report to the Board outlining. his course of action and objectives of . his project with respect to the Nott. It is expected that the Board will then vote on the soundness of this proposal. As one Board member said, \we can't afford not to look into this.\ has a lot to do with my feelilngs howworthwliilerepairing the roof Some of the Board members for it (the Nott).\ Of the Nott would be, he said, ••the roof is the have expressed great confidence itself Mrs. Hume said, \It typifies most important part O'f every in and speak highly of Mr. Union College.\ building. The building (Nott Schaefer •'s proposal. Among The Proposal's Objectives Memorial) itself is in pretty good tbem are Mr. Herman Hill, a vice Mr. Schaefer's proposal would shape.\ . president of General Electric, and entail such things as replacing Mr. Schaefer comment that ·Mrs. Sally Hume. Mrs. Hume broken tiles and installing a .\the building Is in pretty good said of Mr.Schaefer, \He is very copper ice catch on the roef. The shape\ is contrary to the findings i n teres ted in historical · ice catch would serve to prevent of the report issued by the preservation, and I think it would large pieces of ice from cascading architectural firm headed by John be a great thing to have ·ihe-Nott fFom the upper down onto the Mesik. In response to this, Mr. preserved.\ She added, ••r an1 a lower roof in the winter. Continued on Page 11 native (of Schenectady) and that When Mr. Schaefer was asked -~\-~ ·.\'\, ,. j~~' '~ . . f .. A scene from \The lAdy's Not {Qr Burning\ demonstrates how a flower can bloom from the strangest places. \The Lady .. premiers this Friday; for ticket information, see page 4.

Page2 . . . ' . . . . . . ' . . ~ . ' ' ' . . . . ' . ~ ~ Hollow to host parents The Dutch Hollow will be open for Parents Weekend, and cord tally mv1tes all Union Students, parents, relatives and friends to join us for dinner and drinks. To start the weekend off, Friday lunch will be served from 11:30 til I :30 with a choice of Steinmetz lecturer Dr. Jay Forrester, Germeshausen Professor at the Alfred P. Sloan School of Management at M.l.T., will give the 46th Steinmetz Memorial Lecture Wednesday, May 5,. at 8:30 p.m. in Memorial Chapel. D r. F o r, r e s t e i, Known. internationally for his application of the concepts of system dynamics to societal problems, will speak on \Dynamics of Social Systems.\ Dr. F arrester's controversial work is regarded as the direct antecedent of .the Club of Rome Studies of which he was part. Those studies cluminated in the model of \World Ill' and Was the basis for the probing and controversial book \Limits to Growth.\ The Admissions Office would like to thank the St11dent Task Force on Admissions, the Gatesmen, Faculty, Administrat~?n ~d Student Bod.y for then contributions both prior to and during the Accepted Candidates' Day. Saturday's success was a direct .result of the willingness of the Union community to make these visitors feel welcome. standard items (roast beef, turkey and Ham and cheese platters, Chef salad, hamburger and cheeseburger plates, and salad bar) plus a day's special dish. At night, dinner will be served at 5:30 and seven. On Saturday, the pub opens at 9:30 and until ll :00 continental breakfast will be served. At II :30 until 3:00 lunch will be served. Then the Dutch Hollow will close for one hour, and at 4:00, open for dinner (again 3 services will be held - 4 p.m. and 7 p.m.) Remember, if you haven't made reservations, call, 370-6050 or 6051 or come down to the pub. Anyone without reservations will be served on a first come first serve basis. (Note: Due to the schedule for Parents Weekend, there will be no Happy Hour Friday, April 30th. Hope to see you on Friday, May 7th at 4:00-5:00 when we resume Happy Hour!) C ·0 .. ~~ om1c marve to speak On Wednesday, May 5, at 8 p.m. in SSOI6, the man who brought you the Hulk., Spiderman, Captain America, and a host of other superheros will appear on the Union College Campus. Stan Lee, editor of Marvel Comics, will lecture to the intellectuals of Union College on the joys of comics and the inherent worth of comic books .as literature (only kidding). Astually, Mr. Lee is regarded as one of the wittiest speakers on the college lecture circuit and promises to fill S SO 16 with gales of laughter unhe~mi of sin<;~ th!lt mornii)jfsGenetics Lab. Mr. Lee is the last speaker this year presented by Speaker's forum. The year has been generally suecessful and we wish to thank everyone who . attended -the various lectures. Next year, S·peaker's Forum will be converted to Speaker's lloard, and be appointed by the co·mtnittee oti Committees. The list of speakers for next year will be announced as soon as it 1s scheduled. Oh yes, there is an admission charge for Stan Lee: 25 cents for Union students, 75 cents fer aU oth~rs. . -- \ -- CHAIRMEN OF CLUBS AND ACTIVITIES: Please send in a brief summary of -the function of . your activity, club or committee for the aetivities section of the Freshman Record. Mail to Box 504 by Fri., April 30, . ·-·---\'\ --- - - - - 'l . FQR. UQlJOR· I AND WIN£ -jt Try I. ~~ Jdfe 'I Lipstein's I • 4MStateStnet J ....... ... - - _.. . --- - j •• - The Lady's ·a, play by Not For Burning christopher try t 1 o k e t s : w e e k d a y s f rom 1 - IS apltl ao- 8 pm/ may 1- 2 pm./ m.q a- 2·6;8 pm. in the nott memorial Clambake to ·aid ch~rity Yes siree, plans for this year's Clambake are well underway, and the College community is anxiously awaiting Saturday, May 8. Some of the reactions to last year's Bake are as follows: \Excellent!\ \Outrageous I really had a great time.\ \lt was great! Plenty of dams, hot dogs, and beer.\ \I know I went, but l don't remember too much. about lt.\ \The weather was great and me . and the .gang really enjoyed it.\ \l got coldcocked by an errant frisbee, and spent the rest .of tpe day drinking beer.\ , \Only topped by the band party at the house that night:\ As you ma,y well gather, .a good - time was had by all.. However, the mot.ivati.on for Sigma ChL sponsoring the Clambake each year is not only for· fun, but helping those less fortunate than ourselves. Tht1 beneficiaries of proceeds collected are the Wallace Village in .Broomfield, Colorado, and the Schenectady Day Care Center. The Wallace Village was founded in 1943 to help children with Minimal Brain Dysfunctions. A child so afflicted experiences perceptual and emotional problems coupled with ~pecifric learning disab(lities. At the Village special therapies are used to modify sp·ecific deficiencies, and en~hle the child to develop his abilities to the fullest. Many of Sigma Chi's 169 chapters sponsor events to raise money for this project. Plea.se help us to aid the Village and the Schenectady Day Care Center by purchasing a ticket which we're sure you will find well worth the price in entertainment value alone. _ Tickets can be purchased at Carnegie during lunch· hours, at West . dinner time, or up at the chapter house. Prices are $3.50 during the month of April, $4.00 during May, and $4.50 at the door. For Your Bicentennial Engagement and Forever r. A perfect Keepsake diamond says it_ all, reflecting your love in its brilliance and beauty.' And you can choose with confidence because the Keepsake guar- antee assures perfect clarity, fine white color and precise modern cut. There is no finer diamond ring. r----~------~---------------, 1 How to Plan Your Engagement and Wedding 1 I Everything about planning your engagement and wedding in a beautiful 20 page I I booklet. Also valuable information about diamond quality and styling. Gift offers I I fot complete 44 page Bride's Keepsake Book and giant full color poster. All for 25¢. I I I ~~~ I I Address I I . I I City I I State . · Zip · I I Keepsake Diamond Rings, Box 90, Syracuse, New York 13201 I l!~!.e:!!~~e!!~sJ!!~I~.2!~2!.~'~!..~~3~22; . .!!!.~~~~~~_,-

CONCORDIENSJS, Wednesday, Apri/28, 1976 Wells speaks at historian convention / An extraordinary growth of population in the British colonies during the 18th century played an important wle in spurring the American Revolution, according to a 0 nion College history professor. Addressing the Organization of American Historians at their annual meeting April 7~10 in St. Louis in a p::tper titled \Population and the American Revolution,\ Associate Professor Robert V. Wells said the population of the colonies doubled every 25 years between 1700 and I 775 due to natural increase and immigration. This growth figured in the Revolution in a number of important ways, he said. the empire.\ A particularly interesting factor contributing to the Revolution, Or. Wells noted, was of both a demographic . and ideological nature. ln. the 1600's, colonial proprietors realized they would have to draw English settlers to America if they were to make a profit from their ho'ldings. This they did by offering potential colonists land, relLgious toleration, and political power. The effects of these recruiting deVices eventual'y turned against the proprietors,said Dr. Wells, as Americans soon began to expect to control their own affairs. He concluded that the central e.lement in the American One important effect was \the transformation of the colonies into something other than plantations of the British,\ said Dr. Wells. Importation of slaves and immigration from other parts of Europe combined to produce a population in 1775 of which almost half was not of British · Revolution - the colonists' desire to maintain or expand their control over land, church, and government - was rooted in the attempts to stimulate immigration in the first ha:lf of the 17th century. Jazz-rock specialist Ramsey Lewis dazzled a small crowd at Achilles Rink Sunday night. Dr. Wells also noted that those colonies with :the highest proportion of black slaves to white freemen were the least willing to enter the Revolution. Georgia and South Carolina had t:he. highest concentration of ·slaves of any of the 13 colonies taking part in the Revolution but were the last to enter the war, he said. Whites in such colonies had the most to fear from disruption of the social system, Dr. Wells explained. Woman counselor sought ancestry, he ~id. ' . \By 1775, America was a society in which understanding of the· English political system and attachments to the British empire' were extraordinarily varied,\ Dr. Wells said. Furthermore, he said, as the colonists became aware of the extraordinary growth which was transforming their society, \they came to see it as a sign of the virtue and strength of the new world.\ A number of \Writers including Benjamin Franklin, encouraged g.rowth while transmitting the message that \the future lay with America, whether or not the colonies remained in Dr. Wells, a 1965 graduate of Denison University,. has been interested in demography for 10 years. His graduate work was at Princeton University's department of history and Office of . Population Research. A native of Bridgeport, Conn., Dr. Wells has been a member of the Union College faculty since 1969. by SUE FINKELSTEIN A new position is possibly in view for Union College. The Counseling Center, located in Wells House, is advertising for an individual who will be working with a specific group of students whose problems are rather unique. The Counseling Center is thinking of hiring a Women's Counselor. This · riew position has been· dev~::loped in response to the growing, conflicts and concerns of female students · at the College that have developed due to the rapid transitions now taking place in woman•s role throughout the academic communitylt.. As is stated in the job description created by the Center, \increasing numbers .of women are coming to Union Senio·r job market optimistic by RICH GUARDIAN Trust Company, Computet 'Consistent with the- upswing in Linguistics, and Dynamic recruiters. The Placement Office has invited· several Union alumni of diverse majors to ·come speak on the job market in the near future. Looking at the job situation Continued on Page 9 College at a time when traditional roles and values are in a state of flux.\ The Center feels that tt ts presently appropriate for the College to acknowledge the repercussions possible from such changes, and offer counseling for those individuals that .might be affected by them. The Women's Counselor will be available to work with individual students, 'and will be responsible for creating group sessions on consciousness ra1s1ng and assertiveness training for both male and female students. He/she will be holding group sessions and workshops on pertinent issues involved in co-ed institutions. The job will also emphasize helping female students become more aware of their options in personal and career choices, to help them look at their own values and beliefs in terms of their futures, and · to perhaps offer new directions in terms of career choices. This position will be a 12 month appointment, but during the summer months, the counselor will not hold formal office hours. The time may be used for teaching and individual preparation and research for the creation of workshops and group counseling. This pQssible pos1t1on will stress the location of an individual who is \an expert\ on women. Although a portion of the counselor's time will be devoted to individual work with both male atfd female students, the major commitment will be to meet the special needs of women at the College. Although still in the planning stages, the addition of a Wornen's Counselor will be a greatly appreciated asset for all of us, male and female, who sometimes t:}Uestion where we are going, or why we are staying. Our Title IX Committee is eharged with the responsibility of assessing academic advising and personal counseling with respect t~ sex bias. If y~u have ever experienced a situation of advising(coumeling that you believe was sex biased in some way, please contact me either in pers(Jn or in writing. Names need not be included. Therese Ambrusko, Chairperson U.S. GNP and employment Research. Mrs. Miller points out figures, job market opportunities that these companies are looking for the Union College class of for quality and that they are 1976 are generally optimistic. , willing to pay for it. Following Recruiters are returning to the are some rough figures for mean campus, job bids are being salaries offered to Union seniors: offered more readily, and starting Engineer~ with Bachelor's salaries are relatively higher than Degrees - $13-$15,000 ' th~ were last year. Despite Engineers with Master's Other schools consulted: 101 Bailey Hall, Ext. 6229 complaints heard from graduating Degrees.- $14-$17,000 seniors, this. year's statistics show Computer Science Majors with a definite rise in employment Bachelor's Degrees- $11-13,000 Student tax exantined opportunities for the class of Computer Science Majors with 1976. Master's Degrees ~ $12-14,000 For the past several months an According to Susanna Miller, All Others - $8-12,000 Ad Hoc student tax review Director of Career Counseling Despite these figures, many committee has investigated and Placement, although fewer students are still pessimistic about possible improvements on the companies are coming to the the job market and put some present student tax structure at campus, those that are recruiting blame on the Placement Office the request of the Student Forum. are hiring more extensively. Last for not finding them jobs. Says At a meeting last week of Union's year it appeared to her that many Mrs. Miller, \For those who are student government, the group, recruiters were here solely to motivated it looks gdod. For - composed of Eli Portnoy ('77), retain connections with Union those who are sitting around Gary Philipson ('79), Marc and for public relations purposes, waiting for a magic wand, it Abbott ('79), John Breault ('77) while this year they are seriously doesn't look good.\ Although and Stanley Gerberer ('79), looking for employees. The more· non-liberal arts majors are disclosed several of its .most increase in hiring has been slow, offered jobs, shC' claims it is not i~portant observations. Their but she defihitely sees a trend of because of the major. Engineering committee, which first analysed improvement. and Computer Science majors Union's present tax structure, It is still too early to judge the stand a good change to get a job contacted selected private colleges final results (most bids are not primarily because tliey often do and universities of similar size made until after May), but some not need any further graduate and stature. The schools studied figures are presently available. education. However, Mts. Miller were Colgate, Williams, Trinity, Last year at this time, 48 offers believes many students with other RPI, Skidmore,. Wesleyan, and had been made to 29 students. As majors fail to get jobs simply Lafayette. The following are the of this week, 63 offers have been because of lack of confidence, findings that the five have received by 38 students (21 of flexibility .and determination. concluded as most applicable to whom have accepted jobs), and 11 Those who persevere seem to be Union: seniors have reported accepting the ones who receive the job The majority of systems studied jobs they found on their own. offers. Too many students are charged sligl:itly lower or Among businesses which have waiting around for someone to equivalent student activity fees made offers to Union seniors are approach them, and it is these than Union's present. $75 per General Electric (12 offers), students who ate finding it hard academic year. Only two of the Eastman Kodak (7), Traveller's te secure employment. A great· schools, Wesleyan and RPl, ,Insurance (5), Union Carbide (4), deal of hustle is involved in charged slightly higher fees; Proctor and Gamble, Bell procuring a job, and too many . Wesleyan just increased theirs last Telephone System, Abraham ancl students lack the confidence and falL With .these funds, these Strauss,. Mobil, Korvettes 1 r.noti vation to sell their respective· schools support National Commen#al Balik and · qualifications to corporate comparable if not· improved student functions. The findings surprisingly showed that without increasing the student tax rate, organizations and committees c.ould increase their total overall budgets. In fact, it was found the recurring characteristic behind the individual budget increments was the ability of each student activity to stimulate revenue to supplement their tax allocations. This not only stabilized the overall student budget, but demonstrated the value of each organization to the college community. Students raised revenues by promoting fund~ raising drives (i.e. carnivals and film~festivals); charging minimal admission fees (at s~o.rting_ events, theatre, social activities, lectures, etc.), parent appeals, and establishing club dues. Several colleges also have set up income bearing cooperatives selling records, foods and sundries. Other schools supplemented their student tax. monies by obtaining revenues from their bookstores and game rooms. Within the next month a formal set of recommendations will be submitted to the Student Forum by the committee. Any student with suggestions or comments can drop them off with Mrs. Marra at the student activities office. Please voice your views - th.ese are your tax dollars! WANT TO THROW A CREAM PIE AT BILL ENTEMAN? AND/OR MARK SMITH? The highest bidder gets to do it I Come to the Union College Child Care Center's THIRD ANNUAL AUCTION MAY l The Sunday of Parents' Weekend 1:30-2:00 P.M. Hale House Court. Box lundm available for slfe: Aiso -to be amctloned off are: A Meskan Dinner for 4 at Byron and Llada Nichol's. Free Dillliel'l at tbe Dutch Hollow. Other aoodies and craftS! AD proceeds benefit Day Care Center.

Page4 CONc;ORDIENSIS, Wednesdqy. Apri/28, 1976 Loggins and Messina by JANET CHAPMAN Ice hockey was the feature for the winter, but this spring Achilles Rink is becoming a concert hall. · reputation on studio albums and stage shows appealing to aU audiences, becoming in three years time a top American music team. Fellow singers have only served to complement their creations by winning gold records and even a Grammy for renditions of their material such as: Anne Murray singing Kenny's \Danny's Song\ a.nd \A Love Song\ or Lynn Anderson singing Ji01's \Listen To a Country Song.\ Jim Messina and Kenny Loggins' partnership has been five good years of musical productivity and promises to continue this trend. Jim Messina co-founded and produced the pioneering country rock group \Poco\ till he left to find a home at Columbia Records. There he met the young singer/songwriter Kenny Loggins. Loggins had written a lot of material for albums on the West Coast as well as one hit for the Nitty Gritty Dirt Band, the \House At Pooh Corner.\ Together they built In the past few years Loggins and Messina have won several record awards, both platinum and gold for albums: Sittin In, Loggins and Messina; Full Sail, On Stage, and Mother Lode. This year with a new band and a their Native Sons album (releaseg Victory is sweet, even if he really wanted Bachelor 1. Schenectady: Dating c·apital of the world by ROBIN MESSING January '76) rating high on the country's charts, they're sure to be a smash here at Union College. Their 1976 tour features: Kenny Loggins-vocals, guitars, harmonica; Jim MessinaMvocals, lead guitar, mandolin; Jon Clarke~sax.es, flutes, recorders, oboe; and Vince Denham-saxes, flutes, recorders. New additions are Doug Livingston-keyboards, pedal steel guitar; Willie Ornelias as percussionist; George Hawkins doing bass and harmony vocals and Woody Chrisman on the fiddle and violin. The Social Committee is selling tiCkets in th.e Student Activities Office, $5.'00 for Union students and $6.00 for others. Don't miss your chance to he a part of this spring happening on Thursday, May 13th.. The l)nion College Mountebanks, iii conjunction with tbe Parents' Weekend Committee, are · proud ·to present Christopher• Fry's \The· Lady's Not For Burning.\ Titkets are on sale from 1·5 p.m. at the Nott Memorial Box Office. There are plenty of seats still uilable. Performances are this Friday. April 30 at 8:00 p.m., Saturday, May 1 at 2:00 p.m., and Sunday, May\ 2 at 2:00 p;m. and 8:00 p.m. There will only be four pedormances. We entreat you to bring · yollf parents and yourselves to the historic Nott Memorild this weekend so that we may entertain you. Thomas Mendip contemplates part of his favor-it(!· subject (himself) in Christopher Fry's satire, · \ this weekend in the Nott Theater. • ~ \ 1J Joseph.Heller: 'S r' h-. · H· d' .. olllet .· tng . app-ene . for. suntmer by JOE MILLETT · Recom.mendifrg n.ovels . to college students·. is like recommending·to a nine-year-old that h~ eat his .vegetables. The experience is a beneficial one, but try and convince the kid of that. . He wo:uld rather have· ice cream, ' and who can blame him? College students are the san'le way, but the situation is reversed. Students are stuck . with the vegetables (cherii, 'bio; and .. peli sci books) and refuse to eat the ice cream! Everyone should read modem •\ . fiction. If any medium is the medium of ideas, it is the novel. A good novel will expand. your a,v.,:ar_eness of life, make you laugh, cry, and think. A college student does not have the time to get into a good · book, so I'm going to recommend that you buy the following book noW and ~ead it over the sumtnerj when you have the time to get into the finest novel of the past· twu~nty years: Joseph Heller's Something Continu~d on Page 9 COURTSIDE TENNIS SHOPPE 1729 UPPER UNION ST. (OPPOSITE FRIENDLY ICE CREAM) • RACKETS, SNEAKERS, CLOTHING, WARM-UPS, GIFTS, ETC. • LOWEST REG. PRICES IN THE AREA • 24 HOUR RACKET RESTRINGING SERVICE OPEN MONDAY-SATURDAY 11 AM to 6 PM TEL. 372-5558 Last Thursday night, Union College was transformed into Hollywood, the dating capitol of the world, as Cabaret featured its own version of the Dating Game. Performing a script by Matt Brief, ten students portrayed typical stereotyped roles to the tunes of the Tijuana Brass. The two shows on Thursday were sold out within a half hour as Cabaret packed in the spectators who later emerged still smiling, with tears still in their eyes. Shows like that do not just happen spontaneously. Unknown to most people, there is a good amount of work that goes on behind the scenes for each show. The man be-hind the scenes is Dave Lederkramer, who plans and directs the shows. The bachelors and bachelorettes of the Dating Game got together with \Jim Lange\ for a number of rehearsals before the actual performance, to practice their questions and throw hisses to the audience. Rehearsals served basically as a time to memorize and practice lines, however none really appeared polished or humorous till the more energy and \hamming it up\. The bachelors and bachelorettes came to life after emerging from their soundproof booths as the Southern Belle picked a homosexual for her companion for a trip to Copenhagen, and as a \versatile\ woman from 42nd street carried Irving Lipshitz away, separating him from his over-bearing mother Sylvia. The unpicked bachelors included a California jock, and a newly discovered sado-masochist, and the unlucky bachelorettes were a Jap from Great Neck and a clinical psychologist· form Cambridge's Harvard University. All participants thoroughly enjoyed performing the Dating Game as much as the students enjoyed watching it. cabaret - .. T.V.\ debut. Strangely enough, we all experienced feelings of doubt and apprehension~ as do all participants before a show. After the constant repetition of lines, they no longer seem humorous, but to an audience viewing the show for the first time, they were . a smashing success. Audience. reaction really affects the performance; laughter encourages GENERAL MEETING OF THE WOMEN'S CAUCUS Tuesday, May 4th, 6:30 P.M. Women's Center 201- Carnegie Hall To be discmsed: Future of the Women's Center, including improvement of the physical room, and enlargement of the Library. To be held: Elections for two Chairwomen and one Secretary/Ubrarian for next year. ALL INVITED PLEASE ATTEND! THURSDAY, APRIL 29, 1976 Shows at 9:00 and 11:00 P.M. Tickets on sale at 8:00 P ~M. in Carnegie CABARET PRESENTS A SHOW FEATURING UNION'S BLACK PERFORMERS PARENTS WEEKEND - Friday, AprD 30, 1'76 - Shows at 9:00 and 11:00 P.M. - Tickets on sale In Mn. Marra's omc:e Friday afternoon from 1:00 to 4:00 P.M., and Frida,y niJbt at 8:00 in Carneaie. A SHOW ESPECIALLY FOR YOUR PARENTS: Tbe Adorable and Hilarious Peter Rubin AND Folk Duo, Les Goldstein and. John Knudsen WITH tilE INCOMPARABLE EMCEE MATT BRIEF . . ~ - ............. -· \\ ... ' . .. ... - .. ~ .... •

g •• - • 'i' • ~ • . • . . :. \ , CONCORDIENSIS, Wednesday, Apri/28, 1976 PageS == I.M.C. seminar to open by CHRIS O'CONNER The lntercollegiate Musical Council will open its 1976 National Seminar at Union College next Thursday,. May 6. The Seminar, which wns thr-ough Saturday evening, will feature several public performances by some of the best male collegiate choruses on the East Coast · chorus. Mr. Goldovsky is one of the leading authorities on operatic repertoire in the world. But he has The IMC is an organization of male chorus.es which seeks to promote men's vocal music in the;! nation's colleges and universities. Each year the council sponsors a_ National Seminar. Delegates .from all the member colleges discuss their shared problems; two or three member choruses perform. The performances slated f<>r this year's Seminar will begin with' a concert to be given on Friday evening; May 7 featuring the ho;st Union College Glee Club. Performing with the Union Jllen will be \America's singing boys;\ the Columbus Boy Choir. The Boy Choir is one· of the finest groups of. its kind in America .. They win be making a return visit . to Union, where .they performed last fall. The program will feature a mass by Hayden, the Missa Sam:ti Nicolai, and Gabriel Faure's Requiem. The concert will be performed in Memorial Chapel, beginning at 8. Then, at 9:30 on Satur<lay morning, Mr. Boris Goldovsky, Metropolitan Op~ra personality, will present a lecture on the operatic repetoire for male made his reputation as a popularizer of the operatic form. His presentation s·hould be equ:;tHy attractive to the novice as well as the expert opera listener. That same evening, Mr. Goldovsky will again take;;: the podium in Memorial Chapel. This time he will have baton in hand to conduct what promises to be an extremely ej!.citing concert; Men In Song. This concert will feature the combined glee clubs of Union, A~nherst and Penn State; with over 200 male voices on stage. The program will consist of several operatic selections from Rossini's Seige. of Corinth and Rirnsky-Korsakoffs Sadko. The Union Club will open the program which begins at 8 p.m. with a brief solo group, including Claude Debussy's Invocation. There will be other performances during the weekend, including one by the Union College W omen~s ·Glee Club. The distaff side of Union's vocal ensembles will perform a program featuring Vivaldi's Gloria at 3:30 p.m. on Saiurday afternoon in Memorial Chapel. All of the performances during lMC weekend are free to Union students; faculty and staff, may pick up tickets and receive further information by visiting the Arts Office, or calling 370-620L Pub offers specials by KAREN SPAR AND ANDY SANDLER The all new Pub Committee is preparing for an exciting and eventful spring term at the Dutch Hollw. This Saturday night, the Pub will offer an exquisite cuisine to wine and dine the parents, Beginning next week, the Pub will offer a reduced price on a special drink every evening. See the bulletin board in Carnegie for the \drink of the night.\ Another new feature of the Dutch Hollow is an \all you can eat\ brunch featuring Bloody Marys o~ Sundays.· In addition to th,e delicacies offered for dinner, the Pub will TO ALL offer student entertainment every Wednesday night. This Wednesday, _Mike Lynch and Flintlo~k will appear. The Pub Committee is continually stnvmg to make improvements in its operation. All profit from the Dutch Hollow goes towards student activities. Any ideas, suggestions, or complaints about the Hollow are welcomed by the cornrrrittee. • Gary Cohen - 346-9422 Jay Kazher - 393-8939 Tall¥ Poulin - 372-2066 Jane Rutter - 346·9126 Jane Rutter - 346-9126 Andy Sandler - 346-9428 Karen Spar - 370-6439. THOSE INTERESTED IN PUQ.CHASING THE 1980 FRESHMAN RECORD: Due to financial strains on will be a choice between bard our budget this year, we are or soft covered. A price asking all those interested in . differen~·e will be set purchasing the Freshman according})'• ' Record to order it now with a Please send the below order deposit c;tf $2.00. form 'With a $2.00 The final price will depend deposit/book to Michael Mrks on the numbers of Records c/o Freshman Record o'dered. It will range from ·· ( Ca111pus Mail). $4.00 to sc;.oo, Again, there Nam• Address Phone II of copies Hardcover s:ofteover ~mount EneiOied M~e ebt)eks·payable to Union ;coneae· 1980 Fresh~an Rec~.-d. arts Union Glee Club to host J.M.C. seminar Thursday, May 6. Albert Hand ell: Quiet ntoinents by DIANE NELSON ''If you have missed, say the ~him,mering surface of an eyeglass you have missed the whole thing. It. is your personal response that matters.\ This quote from artist AlQert Handell summarizes the painter's view of his goals in painting. Handell's \work can now be -viewed in a one•man show at the Schenectady Museum. The show running through June 20, 1976, includes selections of the artist's varied work.. Included are oil, and pastel works, landscapes, portraits and still lifes. It is a pleasant collection of works, some better than others with nothing · pJrticularly unforgettable. Born in Brooklyn, New York in 1937, Handelrs original goal was in the area of graphic design. But his exposure to graphic design at the High School of Art and Design in New York City disappointed him. I;Ie did not feel it expressed peoP:le's values sufficiently. Although Handell finished his graphic design trammg in high school, he sill:mltaneously attended drawing and sketching classes at the Art Students League. It was this training that launched him in the direction of painting as a· career. Handell also received formal training at La Grande Chaumiere in Paris. Apart from the show presently at the Schenectady Museum, Handell has exhibited in six one- man shows and ten group shows. His work is in the collections of four museums; the Brooklyn Museum, Bates College, Salt Lake City Museum of Fine Arts, and The Art Students League of New York. Han dell has won numerous awards and distinctions and been written up in various publications. Handell concentrates his efforts on the quieter moments in life. Altbough he does not equate photographic realism with art, he An example of Handell's work. Union College Film Committee Presents The Great Escape Tues., May 4 at 1, 10 p.m. Union College FUm Committee Presents A Touch of Class Fri. 10:00 Sat., Sun. 7, 9, 11 feels painted realism is art. An artist recreates reality selectively. Handell's works are basically realistic. In all of his work he ' claims to attempt to hold his first emotional respons~ to the subject matter. •\\ Handell has said that a painting· is successful if it captures what the artist wanted to say. Judging the Schnectady Museum show on this criteria, Randell's works bring mixed reactions. Heather Meredith Owens, in an article entitled \The Inner Universe of AI bert Handell,\ stated that Handell does not relate well to nature. But he does relate to the strength of the tree. The Schenectady Museum show proves this point. Seven landscapes are on display. Only one, entitled \The Branch\ is memorable. The work is done predominantly in grays, whites, and blues. It focuses attention on the energy and life of a single tree. The other six landscapes are far less successful. Streams and wooded areas are depicted in wishy-washy browns and greens. The intent of the artist is probably to show •the tranquility of nature. But the works lack the vibrancy that is also a part of nature. . On a more optimistic note a pastel and pencil work entitled \Moren and Jay\ is an unusual portrait of man and a woman. Moren is done in pastel and Jay in pencil. The use of two different medias suggests the tension obviously present between the two individuals. Jay is a baffling character ·wearing dark glasses. There is an overall sense of mystery to the work. Perhaps the best portrait present in the show is one entitled \Portrait of Jack Lipper.\ The confusion and tension combined in the man are apparent. His eyes are troubled and his jaw is tensely set. Overall Albert Handell's show is a pleasant one. The artist is not successful[ in all of his works and rione of the pamttngs are particularly unforgettable. But the painter's works are generally pleasing to the eye and worth viewing. Pete·r Pause Rest. APARTMENT FOR RENT 4 Bedrooms Kiteben, Batbroom Sl5 a week/room eomplet~ 346-9178 535 NOTT ST.

Page6 CONCORDIENSJS, Wednesday, April28, 1976 . ' ' . governmental traveSty The decision of the College Senate to deny students access to the tenure appeals process is a miscarriage of the governance system. The system was originally designed to provide students equal access to facets of college decision-making processes. The decision to exclude the Presidential Advisory Board's students from tenure appeal ·eases violates the original spirit of the document and seems to point to students as inferior members of the college community. It seems obvious that only students can provide proper testimony on the teaching expertise of tenurable faculty. It also seems that most faculty_ would be incapable of judging the scholarship of their colleagues in other fields. Students' perpetual displacement from the tenure process thus seetns rather mysterious: why is it that faculty are so afraid of students' presence, despite the apparent validity their input would have? The· stated reason, that of feared disclosures of personal matters pertaining to the tenure cases, is invalid: last year's Student . Trustees? when consulted in similar circumstances, managed to prove their ability to maintain trusts. Are we really being prepared for the responsibilities of the world outside Union's gates? The Senate decision seems to indicate a lack of respect for students as members of the community. The trend is a dangerous one: it negates much of the meaning student representation on committees had and illuminates the faculty's reluctance to treat students as equals. DLM nowhere to go but up The fifth week approaches. Saga food service, under review by the Student Forum, has until the fifth week of this term to either clean up its act or hit the road. It seems to Concordy that the Forum should take a closer look at this gastrically perilous organization before making the decision to rehire. It, and the students of this college, should carefully consider whether Saga is the best we can do or whether a feasible improvement exists~ Do we really have to put up with an organization that reverses meal plan policies after they have been purchased? Is it necessary to tolerate a company that attempts to improve its service, not by spending effort on quality food or better facilities, but by staging contests to decorate the walls and by adding cardboard pizza to the Skeller menu? Do human beings really have to eat ~gourmet casserole'? Whatever happened to the report of the sanitary inspection of Saga's facilities? We hope the Forum realizes that only a company willing to spend some effort on producing a quality product, rather than a superficial depiction of one, will be capable of drawing students hack to the college dining halls. DLM Opinion: 'Star Trek' is illogical by JACK PITNEY Star Trek would not be a hit on the planet Vulcan. Despite its many virtues, the show contains some serious errors in logic. Consider: - Almost all of the aliens encountered by the crew of the Enterprise speak English - with an American accent,· no less. It is rather unlikel~ that intelligent beings on any planet have a language as silly as any of Earth's. And if they did, why wouldn't it sound like French, German or Urdu? - The ship~s phaser beams always diverge from the source, but converge on the target. ,, - Captain Kirk and his top officers are forever beaming down to\ dangerous sit1,1ations on hostile planets. If they were to get killed, the chain of ·command of the Enterprise would be decimated. A starship commander OU$ht to ' I ~ know better. . .- .Ouri·ng the title sequence, the Enterprise flies across the screen with an audible WHOOOSH. Need anyone be told that there can be no sound in airless spaoe? .:._ The Federation) Prime Directive states that starship crews may not interfere with the development of non-member planets. Yet this is precisely what · the men of the Enterprise do in episodes such as \A Piece of the Action.\ \I meant to set this phaset on stun, not char-broil. That'ff- illogical and pasky.\ Hard•core Trekkies do not pay any attention to such details. They are, instead, enn~ptured by what they believe to be the show's basic message: namely, that humans of at! races and nationalities will someday be able to work together in harmony. . There is just one tiny problem. Although the .show indicates that humans will be at peace with one another, they.. will be in a perpetual state of war with the Romulans, the Klingons and a host of other galactic geeks. But. that is the way it must be. After a:ll, if Kirk and his men had no enemies to fight and kill, Star Trek would not be · any- fun. Students may drop .a course without penalty (i.e., receive a grade of W) during the first six weeks of the term. This means that, if you intend to withdraw from a course, you VJ.Ust do 'so by Friday,, May 7th and you must have ther approval of your advisor. .. .I ·: . .. ...... ,.d-.r t~..:..en· . . m>Pt\Iled at · · · · '(ll~\\'\ ., vc · ' we: · til\ Pi'esid t' t Ad:l,i$0l~Y·itJCil~rd , . . . . . · tes~rve~-. d1e : ticke.ti. ·They · were . no~·tQ gra~nitt ·~k ~'' . . : . .'- sp:re:·~' . ... . . ~~h;t~~:M:~~diJ~•t ;~~~ll~ .. ;. J?r¥e~or~Ctl01l . Wlti . it . cl~ar. :f,> < . . ··•· • : ·· ·· · : '· · · · . ·Thi 'tick~t li'!U,i.t. is· four ~et · · i:m.iioaition 'Qf h<tw the faculty and ~· .,_. . · tfte,..gf:.9f • .· petson .. We bave tti~ ~elli:ng b~t)J; ·· ... admillistmti9n ··~ · ~9. muddlqd·in · :···E ...... it .... ·\·· .. ¥\;.~ .. 0 :~.~h· · 8 .· .•• ~~. : .... · · · ·· an unl!imitetl nu!llb~r and two peL . tile J.)olitica. of. the .colles;e . tllat... . . ; \ '\\\\'• \'....... ·~..,..., - · pers-cin~ · Both system$ incur the , · they are uuabfe- ttl' (iea\L witii' ~ ·· .. T~ C'il'ba~ apo~og:i$es £~ th~. . wratn: Gr the inc.t>n:venierwe of a · uniqtle .metit-s, ·<>f an individual. · fact.UI~,not a:n:. ·Whp .wished tQ ·· subs.tantiwl.:nuinber ofpepp:le. We· : · F&<those. rnemi;>etl'l\. of the: view last . 11nl1tSdaM' ~hfs· Show . thm.k t~t . .four ti.Gkets per ~rs<>~ , ·t:a;¢'ulty:f · ,a;4 ~niS;tr~ti()n I:Ultl. c.<>tt:ld ~?e. acc<>rrun<>d~te¢,, • OUr is a rea$.9ilabl'e number; b~t solile · · studen.t body wbo :;b.elpedjn the · · ' 'tu*et poh.oy bas- v.aned .Widely· still ooitlptruiL · : . · : :. , ,...:~.--·~U!~~ to r~~e~b.t~~ the tenv,re ·.since the ~pring ofJ9!4 W})e~ we • · . Finalt~r.:~e have ?eentol~ ·t~t:'. ~)'st~ · anq· itt ... P,a:rtitular ~ .... . .· ... first opened .. Regardless of what . even il' <On~ waits diligently oo lin~ . . Ptde§orr fl~wat!:l>:: l~rthold for . ·'' · system we try~ none h:as been. · anti' it appearS:ihat. ticbtt may be . tim:ure .appear we tbank you. For · ··. entirely witho'?tit~ pto~lems. We .. ha~. one,: tnight. be aut of .tU:ok · .. theJse' · ine~~rs :Of·; tihe Jacwty •. · , .• have .. tec~uved . n~:flle~o.:us. , after .i~* !lle teas~>n. iUbi$~ s.Q~~. a~ministi&t:ion a~d t~t'U~ent .. b'Q4:$i. .. · · compla~nt's, ·. fe~ .ct)n~tmctive . peopt~·.,aa'Ve ·pla~es· for tw1f .. or' '\Yh(j~ W:el,'e> unable ·to . see the · · .. S:l\~gestioqs, .and· a· fau: am.o.unt .of·. · · ·tbt{)~ frieh<ls. thus deptivin~ .·those' ·~·inequity .. involved · ln. ,Bfofessor · . .<gJil(;lf. w~. aJ;e P.?tl ~Gwever~ .de~f, . .. WP~ h~~:-y~ wait¢d of up t:o tFe~re ·, B~huld's ci\s,~; we nope yow s~ . '. : ' ngr ar~ We cJose-nund~? .. Ln f~ct ti.~~et6,:' We :cannot t;~olice .the lit:~ih ttie'l}r~®d~l!t ~t ·~:tY thiS. dee'isiqn. ' . ' . . s~ggesttons ate welcQ~e; Merely :We .C#n o-nly i!Ige ·peopl~: ta_.Pe ·. . ' ·.Mike &aan~r . · . ··. ··. · · tack thent tp Ol.ll' bttU~ttn ooanL. 'fait ·a.J\'d ap01o~ize for th\)se.\VhQ; :·~ ·. ·, Jim, K'~tenb.aun; '. ' orour door. . ·.·.... . . .· .· .· . . . . ar~n·t. . . . . . ... · ... . . . ·. .Richa:rd A., Siegel As fol\ speclf1c CE)tnplatnts we · As consolation we add that · · · offe;>th~ f?llowl:ug e2tpl!l~ations: ' ' we'te n:yiag :to schedule ~att. : .•. hell·ow. . . 'Yhile it 1s true . thfU: · erghj;een Brief's award winrnng . and ... · · · tieh'kets ;vhere set astdet·hforhtrustees · provo~ative Dating Game fot . •bOUO W?. w ,o nett er came to }~ s O'Y 11ot another showing.· But thiilgs · are panJ: for their · reservatroM. we do tentatiVe at best. So think twice not believe ~hat this .Policy is fair before you give bfl,Cksies to your-· under · ordtna-ry ctrcumstances. buddy. · But due to a misunderstanding· or lack of eommunicati<Hl; Cabaret was not,~ informed until the last\ . n1itliltf·. that ~he trustees · were . · The Cabaret Editors, Concordiensis~ Recently, the Dutch· Hollow ' Piib has been a victim of some carnp1,1s tbie:ves,' Although the · worth of the items may not seem to. be ... mucit· 6.tt. ;t.n ina~xidn~l. ·.· ·· ' ..

Page6 CONCORDIENSIS, Wednesday, Apri/28, 1976 governmental travesty The decision of the College Senate to deny students access to the tenure appeals process is a miscarriage of the governance system. The system was originally designed to provide students equal access to facets of college decision-making processes. The decision to exclude the Presidential Advisory Board's students from tenure appeal cases violates the original spirit of the document and seems to point to students as inferior members of the college community. It seems obvious that only students can provide proper testimony on the teaching expertise of tenurable faculty. It also seems that most faculty would be incapable of judging the scholarship of their colleagues in other fields. Students' perpetual displacement from the tenure process thus seems rather mysterious: why is it that faculty are so afraid of students' presence, despite the apparent validity their input would have? The stated reason, that of feared disclosures of personal matters pertaining to the tenure cases, is invalid: last year's Student Trustees, when consulted in similar circumstances, managed to prove their ability to maintain trusts. Are we really being prepared for the responsibilities of the world outside Union's gates? The Senate decision seems to indicate a lack of respect for students as members of the community. The trend is a dangerous one: it negates much of the meaning student representation on committees had and illuminates the faculty's reluctance to treat students as equals. DLM nowhere to go but up The fifth week approaches. Saga food service, under review by the Student Forum, has until the fifth week of this term to either clean up its act or hit the road. It seems to Concordy that the Forum should take a closer look at this gastrically perilous organization before making the decision to rehire. It, and the students of this college, should carefully consider whether Saga is the best we can do or whether a feasible improvement exists·. Do we really have to put up with an organization that reverses meal plan policies after they have been purchased? Is it necessary to tolerate a company that attempts to improve its service, not by spending effort on quality food or better facilities, but by staging contests to decorate the walls and by adding cardboard pizza to the Skeller menu? Do human beings really have to eat 'gourmet casserole'? Whatever happened to the report of the sanitary inspection of Saga's facilities? We hope the Forum realizes that only a company willing to spend some effort on producing a quality product, rather than a superficial depiction of one, will be capable of drawing students back to the college dining halls. DLM Opinion: 'Star Trek' is illogical by JACK P.JTNEY Consider: beings on any planet have a language as silly as any of Earth's. And if they did, why wouldn't it sound like French, German or Urdu? Star Trek would not be a hit on the planet VHlcan. Despite its many virtues, the sl:low contains some serious errors in logic. - Almost all of the aliens encountered by the crew of the Enterprise speak English - with an American accent, no less. It is rather unlikely that intelligent -- The ship's phaser beams always diverge from the source, but converge on the target. \ { / I \ \, j \J - Captain Kirk and his top officers are forever beaming down to· dangerous situations on hostile planets. If they were to get killed, the chain of command of the Enterprise would be decimated. A starship commander ought to know better. - During the title sequence, the Enterprise flies across the screen with an audible WHOOOSH. Need anyone be told that there can be no sound in airless space? - The Federation's Prime Directive states that starship crews may not interfere with the development of non-member pla11ets. Yet this is precisely what the men of the Enterprise do in episodes such as \A Piece of the Action.\ Hard-core Trekkies do not pay any attention to such details. ·r hey are, instead, enraptured by what they believe to be the show's basic message: namely, that humans of all races and nationalities will someday be able to work together in harmony. There is just one tiny problem. Although the show indicates that humans will be at peace with one another, they will be in a perpetual state of war with the Romulans, the Klingons and a host of other galactic geeks. But that is the way it must be. After all, if Kirk and his men had no enemies to fight and kill, Star Trek would not be any fun. \/ meant to set this phaser on stun, not char-broil. That'~ illogical and pusky.\ Students may drop a course without penalty (i.e., receive a grade of W) during the first six weeks of the term. This means that, if you intend to withdraw from a course, you Vtust do so by Friday, May 7th and you must have ther approval of your advisor. LETrERS spread the grief Editors~ Conc!>rdiensis: The Cabaret apologizes for the fact that not all who wished to view last Thursday night's show could be accommodated.. Our ticket policy has varied widely since the Spring of 1974 when we first opened. Regardless of what system we try, none has been entirely without its problems. We have received numerous complaints, few constructive suggestions, and a fair arnount of grief. We are not, however, deaf, not are we close-minded. In fact suggestions are welcome. Merely tack them to our bulletin board or our door. As for specific complaints we offer the following explanations: While it is true that eighteen tickets were set aside for trustees who neither came to the show nor paid for their reservations, we do not believe that this policy is fair under ordinary circumstances. But due to a misunderstanding or lack of communication, Cabaret w~s not .. informed until the last mmute that the trustees were planning to attend · Thursday . nighfs Cabaret and not a special Saturday night show that we had . 'planned for them. Because plans had already been fi.nalize<l we reserved the tickets. They were subsequently sold to students when the trustees didn't show. The ticket limit is four per person. We have tried selling both an unfimited number and two per person. Both systems incur the wrath or the inconvenience of a substantial number of people. We think that four tickets per person is a reasonable number, but some still complain. Finally, we have been told that even if one waits diligently on line and it appears that tickets may be had, one might be .out of luck after all. The reason is this: some people save places for two or three friends thus depriving those who have waited of up to twelve tickets. We cannot police the line. We can only urge peo-ple to be fair and apologize for those who aren't. As consolation we add that we're trying to schedule Matt Briefs award w1nmng and provocative Dating Game for another showing. But thmgs are tentative at best. So think twice before you give backsies to your buddy. The Cabaret appalled·· Editors, Concordicmsis: We the undersigned are appalled at the decision made by the Presidential Advisory Board not to grant an appeal hearing to Professor Howard Berthold. This action was a clear · indication of how the faculty and administration are so muddled in the politics of the college that. they are unable to deal with the unique merits of an individual. For those members of the fac'ulty, administration and student body who helped in the cause to re-evaluate the tenure system and in particular, Professor Howard Berthold for tenure appeal, we thank you. For those members of the faculty, administration and student body who were unable to see the · mequity involved in Professor Berthold's case, we hope you see the precedent set by this. decision. Mike Kr.amer Jim :Kestenbaum Richard A. Siegel a hollow hollow? Editors, Concordiensis: Recently, the Dutch· Hollow Pub has been a victim of some campus thieves. Although the worth of the items may not seem to be much on an individual A ' \ ; J. ' +l • .j 1 . ' ! \' ·\ l . . I ' '

,, • • t ' 'lr .• ' - .. ~:. ' ' • l .. . N e . e n u ::: • • CONCORDJENSIS, Wednesday. Apti/28. 1976 Page7 -Opi'nion: Quick· to criticize: a fact of life? by JO-ANN MESSINA - .It ~ems that people are so often quick to criticize and so seldom apt to compliment. Some may say, this is a fact of life, but must it be? · Many things. seem wrong, at times, at a school such as Union. . While sitting in Achilles Rink, Saturday, talking to accepted candidates and their parents. a . positive aura .of Union seemed to emerge. As one who is often quick to criticize, I feel the present is the best time to reflect and compliment the positive changes which have taken place at Union. Since I have been here the past two years,. many improvements have occured at Union. As small as the · campus is, with the addition of the Cabaret (including the Inteflectual Cabaret and Game Night), the opening ·Of \'Food For Thought,\ in Hale House, and the opening ·of the \Dutch Hollow,\ there seems to be .an alternative to the Library almost every night, for anyone who wants one. As for daytime, activities in ~neral, we now have a headquarters to . work from since the improvement of the Student CCnter. With much help from administrators such as Craig Carlson (Assistant Dean of Students), the Student Center has made a· momentous leap toward improvement. Along with the previously mentioned Cabaret and \Dutch Hollow,\ the Student Center now houses the Women's Center, the Idol. the Oirector's Lab Theater, The selling of a college Oid you see those goggle-eyed kids wandering around here last weekend? They were high school students who had been accepted at Union hut who had not accepted Union. It was an excellent bribe, a successful flattery. Many of these poor souls of great promise left the Electric City·oelieving that Union was a- ok if not flawless. What did you tell the fortunate student when· he cornered you and wanted to hear the insider's view of Union? Those of us who have been here ail our lives do not have much to compare it to. Even those :of us who beamed in from another solar system in their. sophomore year are Unable to place Union College on some cosmic scale for-· these inquisitive· sub-freshpe.ople. Oh, the irrationa!Jty of trying to decide rationally where to attend college, when even after the four years are gone it can never be determined whether our new knowledge or our good times were a meager , hdping or- the~best of aU possible worlds. Did it make you think what Union might try next? And even What all colleges might be well advised to try in the near future: not to· bring accepted intellectual woopies to the campus in the hope of pilfering them from Harvard et al, but to bring in all manner of high school students; the jock, the underachiever, the- creator,_ the totally lost, along ·We··must 'I!.IIIItor~•:. Concordi(msiS: :Please aiik Oan · R()senbaum, athor .of \Let There Be Mtisic'; n the April 2 t issue, whether Phil Was- a petson or a framed Was he hung (sic) oh. a hook?' · • . · · . . Pliil Alcs:bes · by PETER SOBOL with the omni-directional one will enjoy college for the intellectual sta:r. And why~r Not to experience of the- present. But if . sell them Union ~ although that college can be seen as a means of would be a happy occurrence ~ getting more out of life by but to sell them college. Nothing learning., · exercising the is mote urgently required for the ·imagination, exercisi·ng the survival of college than to have muscles, and by bouncing off the benefits of college made clear fellow humans; if college can to everyone. -claim to enlarge the world-oyster You may have sold one of of whoever wil1 take the tilne, those sub-frosh on Union .. But perhaps more people would not you sell one on college? Is Union find the tuition such a finalized enough to make someone limitation .. consider college? If. not, then it Of course this entire scheme of will go the way of many small selling college requires that there colleges before it, and collapse in are people out there who want ten yel:j.rs for want of a new dome. what college offers, and assumes lf it is going to be, what needs to that these potential customers do ·be changed'? ' not tmderstand what college College has got to be worth really can offer. If there are no something in itself. It cannot be such people, and ·if colleges, and just ~ rung on the ladder to big Union too, can no longer offer an money. It cannot be a trade experience which is Wor.th school to a diploma mill. Neither, something in ,itself, apart from sadly, can it be a four-year party, grad schools, jobs, and all as that would prove to be ladders, then not all the sub-frosh expensive. If colleges which are flattery in the world will keep rufi for these reasons do not die Union from becoming a common right away, they will certainly trade school. sink in a sea of sullen silence. No Is this nott college? Stepping back· from the are Nott encouraged scarcely objective reality of life at Union, tolerated, and Nott in evidence 'let us assess that pseudo- (save for in the Nott newspaper). intellectual experience that we In summation: N ott College is ·call college. More specifically, Nott diverse, Nott stimulating, permit us to dwell on our college, Nott thought provoking, Nott Schenectady's finest. challenging, Nott dynamic, and The question we present is this: Nott a viable part of Academia. is tliis college, or is this Nott Nott signed, college? (def of Nott: 1. A But.quite serious. sixteen sided mammary gland; 2. P.S. A Nott optimistic note: The superlative form of not.) These Nott qualities are Nott What is the substance with which pecl!liar to union {except, of we are being nourished? Is it the course, for the brown spot), but vintage wine of classical thought are indicative of that sad state of or the curdled milk of myopic higher ~ducation in America, on mnemonic mish-mash? this, the two hundredth We are blessed with an anniversary of the USA. (which abundance of learned professors, is Nott pertinent to anything). but our professors are N ott teachers. For fifty minutes a day, 'rr============:;, four days a week they spoon feed us a laundry list of facts which are available even in the Nott library. The Nott administration is Nott as interested in education as it is in reaping profits. Why else does Nott College Nott have an adequate library or an arts center, · but does boast of a hockey team, which Js Nott number one? The students are N ott interested in thinking or learning but are preoccuped with Nott - Nott being professional and financial successes. Besides, why bother? They are, afterall. successful Nott launderers. The successful N ott student, obese and content, thrives upon a diet of grades. This overlaundered, unintellectual handkerchief is known to possess a unique Nott coloring: an unwipeable brown spot on the top of his nose. Elections for the position of ·Editor-in-chief of CONCORDlENSIS will be held on Monday, May 10 in the Concordy office, third tloor Carnegie. Any student, regardless of whether or not he ol' she has participated on the paper, is eligible to run. Editor-ship extends over a period of two terms. Only ,those students who have participated on Concordy during the past two terms are eligible to vote in the election. In the event of tie, the Editor- in-Chief will break the deadlock. All interested o;tudents are invited to submit their names, along with a statement of policy intent, to Mrs. Marra in the Student Activities Office by .Friday, May 7 . Creativity and imagination are Nott part of, Nott Colle~e. They !.!:::==========::::.1 Orientation Offices, WR UC, CO..Cordien!JM? Game Room, Strauss Lounge, the Mail Room, and the Student Activities Office. To elaborate on some .of these areas, Concordiensis should be complimented on its complete overhaul, which ·resulted in a grand improvement il! the past few ·months. It seems we now truly have a school newspaper which is representative of many of the diversified views on campus. Although improvements can always be made, the successful recent attempts should be cited. Remaining in the literary realm, one also sees the beginning of a new investigative paper this year, The Campus Voice, which can only serve to enrich the literary aura of the college campus. Another area worth mentioning specifically, is the Women's Center and in particular, the less stigmatized Women's Caucus. Considering the growing acceptance of the . Caucus by the student body, the group, as a whole, has been able to accomplish more toward its KA wins: goal. The apparent success of Women's Week (Winter Term), along with the turnout at the re- opening of the Women's Center recently, at which \'time subcommittees were set up, seem to exemplify this phenomenon. Along the same lines, it is extremely beneficial to the campus to be able to name many new competent women administrators, the latest being the new Dean of Faculty. This shows the constant striving to improve the excellence of Union. By bril).ging to mind the previous· positive aspects of Union, one should not ignore its negative ones. Grave problems exist in such· areas as the Tenure Process, the seeming overall apathy of the student body, and the tremendous amount of academic rather than intellectual pressure students tend to put on themselves. The improvement of these negative aspects of the College along with the continued improvement of the status quo, can only result in a more well- rounded college atmosphere. Hattie Street contes in second in Beer Rally by ROBEE rally. One crew member of KA's team, the rally's winners, f>·aytona, Indianapolis, reported that his parents began Watkins Glen, ·names known training him since he was four world-wide as road racing centers for this event (even then they along the Gran Prix circuit. But knew). a racing event gaining increasing The rally had exceptional international repute took place weather: A cool northwest breeze between Schenectady and and a completely pitch black sky Saratoga last Wednesday night: with but one lone star that stood The Fourth Annual Chi Psi hoving over the \The Hub\. This Schenecta-Toga Beer Rally. The star acted as a beacon to many. objective was not the mere speed Joseph Norris of Sigma Chi said: of one's . mean, super-charged \That star .helped me to keep my road machme to reach Saratoga, . concentration it was so New York along the fast winding beautiful it tdoked like a half Route :50. But rather this rally eaten be~r nut.\ \Jono\ Norris tes~s the olympian ability of four failed to mention that Sigma Chi Umon College students t~ chug also had two cars equipped with down a total of 12 beers m less CB radios to call back to the than forty minutes . each rally car warnings of \Smokey co~sumed at a different Bears\ to avoid time consuming destgnated bar along the route. ·speeding tickets. They also had Many teams r~porte~ ~hat thm cars out eqUipped with high members are m .tramm~ every frequency sirens th~tt changed the day of the year precedmg the Continued on Page 9 union college Concordiensis FDITORS-IN-CHIEf ..... . CI'I.Tl!RF NFWS SPOR rs . ................ Michael Afflmto. Dav1d Moskowitz Sue 1-inkehtem, D~ane :-.<el;on -\udre\ Rothschild John Busterud. Char he Hanagan, o\ll~ne Price I A VOl IT I anre Tra\'i< Cl ASSifiFDS Hope Fabtan ADS Sher\'1 Farher. Rhonda Kaplan ART ............................................................................... , ................ Lester Wetss PHOTO FDITOR Greg Cohen CALENDAR. ... .... .. Joe Cappuccio CIRCULATION... . ........................... Carmen Gatta CONTR IRI'TI'WI HHTOR Jac~ P1tnc) COPY.... ...... . ... ... . Cath~ \1arth1 SI'RSC'RW!IO~S .. Shelley Gold NATIONAl ADS Steve Kelly PHOIO S I At!· ................................................ Don Hamerman. Lon Green~. Ben (~recn, M1~c K<•tuildi, I.Jar.) !'nee, Sue Kaplan. Alan Stern, Neil Kronick. Robee, Rudy Lu, R1ch Guardian, Kevin Schary, Ken \,fcKcnzic. Oa\c (iro\man S fAfr THIS ISSUE ............................... SueKronish, Arnie Hiller. :-;ell Schwar1l. Pete S,,hnl. C'arol Vene11a, Roh Weimtein. l.i7 Pa•·a. Dan R<hcnl'>aum. J Sm1gen. Bill ·Piau>, Sue Bnckman, :'liaom1 Robbtn;, John Bomcntrc Rich Guardian, Howte Lax CONCORDIENSIS Is published tvery Wednesday by the student body of Union College, Old Gym Hall, Schenectady, N.Y.; to which Postal Forms 3579 are directed. Publications Office: The Jewish World Publications, 416 Smith St.. Schenectady, N.Y. 12305 (370•!5483). Entered in the Schenectady Post Office as Second Class Matter. Subscription Ra1e 35 .cents per copy. 58.00 a yea! delivered anywhere in the United States.

w a! CONCORDIENS/S, Wednesday, Apri/28, 1976 Page 7 Opi'nion: Quick to criticize: a fact of life? \ .; ~ . 1 t 11eems that people alie so often quick to criticize and so seldom apt to compliment. Some may say, this is a fact of life, but must it be? Many things seem wrong, at times, at a school such as Union. While sitting in Achilles Rink, Saturday, talking to accepted candidates and their parents, a positive aura of Union seemed to emerge. As one who is often quick to criticize, I feel the present is the best time to reflect and compliment the positive changes which have taken place at Union. Since I have been here the past two years, many improvements have occured at Union. As small as the campus is, with the addition of the Cabaret (including the Intellectual Cabatret and Game Night), the opening of .. Food For Thought,\ in Hale House, and the opening of the \Dutch Hollow,\ there seems to be an alternative to the Library almost every night, for anyone who wants one. by JO-ANN MESSINA As for daytime, activities in general, we now have a headquarters to work from since the improvement of the Student Center. With much help from administrators such as Craig Carlson (Assistant Dean of Students), the Student Center has made a momentous leap toward improvement. Along with the previously mentioned Cabaret and \Dutch Hollow,\ the Student Center now houses the Women's Center, the Idol, the Director's Lab Theater, The selling of a college . I J ' j ·I ! rl~ t ·)' ' I I 1/:. \ ,,. - ,)·! ' I I, l :l ! ,, . . .. \ i' 1 ,I ,_, '· 1 ... , \ ''tl' Did you see those goggle-eyed kids wandering around here last weekend? They were high school students who had been accepted at Union but who had not accepted Union. It was an excellent bribe. a successful flattery. Many of these poor souls of great promise left the Electric City believing that Union was a- ok if not tlawless. What did you tell the fortunate student when he cornered you and wanted to hear the insider's view of Union? Those of us who have been here all our lives do not have much to compare it to. Even those of us who beamed in from another solar system in their sophomore year are unable to place Union College on some cosmic scale for these inquisitive sub-freshpeople. Oh, the irrationality of trying to decide rationally where to attend college, when even after the four years are gone it can never be determined whether our new knowledge or our good times were a meager helping or the best of all possible worlds. Did it make you think what Union might try next? And even what all colleges might be well advised to try in the near future: not to bring accepted intellectual woopies to the campus in the hope of pilfering them from Harvard ct al, but to bring in all manner of high school students; the jock, the underachiever, the creator, the totally lost, along .• ·>l.=. . ~-!!!!!!!==.=· !!!!!. . !!!!!!. !!!!, .. ~. !!!!!!l!!lllri 7: basis, the aggregate c.()st · Of •. 3 ~' 1 repla,cirig items '(e.g. salt - an<l •. > pepp~r sha~ers, gl~sses, chairs, 1 etc.) ts growmg rapidly. / [if- The ·management of the pub Y understands that these acts are ,: the actions of only a small 'If! fraction of the student body, and ~· has tried to deal with the problem , ~! in the least destructive way. 1 ,jt However, what has started out as .,~~¥ a self-policy · system with an '! occasional bouncer, has grown l ' into an esta!Jlished practice. As a ·. I :·csult, the manager is faced with .' ~ L<lllsidering higher prices and 1 . .' uther remedies (i.e . .serving beer in l/ paper cups). t::, [f the Dutch Hollow is to . ~· continue to be an attractive · 1 ' lacility with much to offer, this {~ malicious thievery must stop. For 1 . · ,l facility which is so much a part / ·. ol the college community, to be ll. ripped off by its residents signals , ', a short life span for what could f . f; become a tradition. ; ,~! ' Diana Leyden '·''> :I we must ~- \ r.~ be sic . ~' ~·~ f'.ditol's, Concordiensis: ';~,: Please ask Dan Rosenbaum, h. lUI hor of \Let There Be Music\ 1 ·< 111 the April21 issue, whether Phil ,' ;;~~>..:h'- was a person or a. framed L';l ••ntmg. Was he hung (s1c) on a ~;·,cture hook? l t~ • 'Ht ;::__ Phd Alcabes ,\ ~t~., .... ~.q-· i'iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii;ii'iiiiiii\ii by PETER SOBOL with the omni-directional intellectual star. And why'? Not to sell them Union - although that would be a happy occurrence - but to sell them college. Nothing is mo<e urgently required for the survival of college than to have the benefits of college made clear to everyone. You may have sold one of tho~e sub-frosh on Union. But you sell one on college'? Is Union enough to make someone consider college'? If not, then it will go the way of many small colleges before it, and collapse in ten years for want of a new dome. If it is going to be, what needs to be changed'? ' College has got to be worth something in itself. It cannot be just a rung on the ladder to big money. It cannot be a trade school to a diploma mill. Neither, sadly, can it be a four-year party, as that would prove to be expensive. If colleges which are run for these reasons do not die right away, they will certainly sink in a sea of sullen silence. No one will enjoy college for the experience of the present. But if college can be ~een as a means of getting more out of life by learning, exercising the imagination, exercising the muscles, and by bouncmg off fellow humans; if college can claim to enlarge the world-oyster of whoever will take the time, perhaps more people would not find the tuition such a finalized limitation. Of course this entire scheme of selling college rcq uires that there are people out there who want what college offers, and assumes that these potential customers do not understand what college really can offer. If there are no such people, and if colleges, and Union too, can no longer offer an experience which is worth something in itself, apart from grad schools. jobs, and all ladders, then not all the sub-frosh flattery in the world will keep Union from becoming a common trade school. Is this nott college? Stepping back from the objective reality of life at Union, let us assess that pseudo- intellectual experience that we call college. More specifically, permit us to dwell on our college, Schenectady's finest. The question we present is this: is this college, or is this N ott college? (def of ~ott: I. A sixteen sided mammarv gland; 2. The superlative form of not.) What is the substance with which we are being nourished'? Is it the vintage wine of classical thought or the curdled milk of myopic mnemonic mish-mash? We are blessed with an abundance of learned professors, but our professors are Nott are Nott encouraged scarcely tolerated, and N ott in evidence (save for in the Nott newspaper). In summation: Nott College is Nott diverse, Nott stimulating, Nott thought provoking, :'liott challenging, Nott dynamic, and Nott a viable pan of Academia. Nott signed, But quite seriou~. P.S. A Nott optimi~tic note: These Nott qualities are Nott peculiar to Union (except, of course, for the brown spot). but arc indicative of that ~ad state ol higher education in America, on this, the two hundredth anniversary of the USA. (which is Nott pertinent to anythmg). teachers. For fifty minutes a day, ·r;:============::.;\] four days a week they spoon feed us a laundry list of !acts which are available even in the Nott library. The N ott ad ministration is Nott as interested in education as it is in reaping profits. Why else does Nott College Nott have an adequate library or an arts center, but does boast of a hockey team, which 1s Nott number one? The students are N ott interested in thinking or learnmg but are preoccuped with Nott - Nott being professional and financial successes. Besides, why bother? They are, afterall, successful Nott launderers. The successful N ott student, obe~e and content, thrives upon a diet of grades. This overlaundered, unintellectual handkerchief 1s known to possess a unique ~ott coloring: an unwipeable bro\\ n spot on the top of his nose. Elections for the po~ition of Editor-in-chief of CUl'iCORDIENSIS will be held on Monday, May 10 in the Concordy office, third floor Carnegie. Any student, regardless of whether or not he or she has participated on the paper, is eligible to run. Editor-ship extends OHr a period of two terms. Only those students who have participated on Concordy during the past two terms are eligible to vote in the election. In the event of tie, the Editor- in-Chit>f wi!l break the deadlock. All interested ~ludents are invited to submit their names, along with a statement of policy intent, to Mr ... :\iarra in the Student Activitic!>. Office by Friday, :\.Ja) 7. Creativity and imagmation are Nott part of Nott College. They L.::============:J Orientation Offices, WRUC, Coocordiensll, Game Room, Strauss Lounge, the Mail Room, and the Student Activities Office. To elaborate on some of these areas, Concordiensis should be complimented on its complete overhaul, which resulted in a grand improvement in the past few months. It seems we now truly have a school newspaper which is representative of many of the diversified views on campus. Although improvements can always be made, the successful recent attempts should be cited. Remaining in the literary rea~lm, one also sees the beginning of a new investigative paper this year, The Campus Voice, which can only serve to enrich the literary aura of the college campus. Another area worth mentioning specifically, is the Women's Center and in particular, the less stigmatized Women's Caucus. Considering the growing acceptance of the Caucus by the student body, the group, as a whole, has been able to accomplish more toward its KA wins: goal. The apparent success of Women's Week (Winter Term), along with the turnout at the re- opening of the Women's Center recently, at which time subcommittees were set up, seem to exemplify this phenomenon. Along the same lines, it is extremely beneficial to the campus to be able to name many new competent women administrators, the latest being the new Dean of Faculty. This shows the constant striving to improve the excellence of Union. By bringing to mind the previous· positive aspects of Union, one should not ignore its negative ones. Grave problems exist in such areas as the Tenure Process, the seeming overall apathy of the student body, and the tremendous amount of academic rather than intellectual pressure students tend to put on themselves. The improvement of these negative aspects of the College along with the continued improvement of the status quo, can only result in a more well- rounded college atmosphere. Hattie Street comes in second in Beer Rally by ROBEE Oaytona, Indianapolis, Watkins Glen, names known world-wide as road racing centers along the Gran Prix circuit. But a racing event gaining increasing international repute took place between Schenectady and Saratoga last Wednesday night: The Fourth Annual Chi Psi Schenecta-Toga Beer Rally. The objective was not the mere speed of one's mean, super-charged road machine to reach Saratoga, New York along the fast winding Route 50. But rather this rally tests the olympian ability of four Union College students to chug down a total of 12 beers in less than forty minutes each consumed at a different designated bar along the route. Many teams reported that the1r members are in .training everv day of the year preceding the rally. One crew member of KA's team, the rally's winners, reported that his parents began training him since he was four for this event (even then they knew). The rally had exceptional weather: A cool northwest breeze and a completely pitch black sky with but one lone star that stood hoving over the \The Hub\. This star acted as a beacon to many. Joseph Norris of Sigma Chi said: \That star helped me to keep my ·concentration, it was so beautiful, it looked like a half eaten beer nut.\ \Jono\ Norris failed to mention that Sigma Chi also had two cars equipped with CB radios to call back to the rally car warnings of \Smokey Bears\ to avoid time consuming speeding tickets. They also had cars out elJUlpped with high frequency sirens th~t changed the Continued on Page Q umon college Concordiensis f·DlTORS-J'\;.('U IF!· ('('JTI'RF '>FWS SPOR I\> l AYot '1 Cl ASSIHFDS ADS ART PHOTO FOITOR CALENDAR C!RCli!ATION CO!'<TR Jill 'Tl'Wi FDITOR COP) ......... . SI'BSCRIPT IO'\;S \>A flO'\;<\[ ADS PHOIOS.IAI-F '\T<\FF THIS ISSI'F \f•chJel ·\ffinl[n, Da'Id \1'\\\\'111 Sue Fmkel't~m. D1ane '.;el,on •\udrn Rnth,chtld fohn llu,terud. Ch.Hlt,· rlan.lf!an. <\11\ne Price l anre Tr;n\ Hope Fahtan Shen l Farher. R h<>nda Kapl<~n . l e'ter We'\ (ireg Cnhen J ne Cappuco:l<' Carmen Gatta Jack P1tne~ ( ·,,th\ \1.trtlt) Shclle\ (i,,\d Ste•e Kell~ Don IIJm~rnt,tn. I •'11 tirrcn~. \len (ircen. M1ke R·•tundt. ti.H) l'rt.:r. ~ue Kaplan. Aldn Stern. '\eli K1<Hllck. Rohee. Rud\ l u. R Kh l •u.;rd1an. Kc\ln Scha1), Ken !\kKe.nlle, [)\'\ lH''\Ill.Jrt Sue Krnnt,h. ·\rn1e H1l1er, '-'e1\ Sc.h\\artl, Pete Snhnl, Carol \'t'nena, Roh Weinql'tn, I 11 Pa\<L Dan R,,_enhaum. J Sm1gen. lltll Piau,, Sut• Bnd.man, '\''\\ !{,,j)f>l!h, J,•\tn B,O!i\cntrr R1ch Guard1a·n: H<1-wte Lax CONCORDIENSIS is published every Wednesday by the student body of Union College, Old Gym Hall, Schenectady, N.Y.; to which Postal Forms 3579 are directed. Publications Office: The Jewish World Publications, 416 Smith St., Schenectady, N.Y. 12305 (370-5483). Entered in the Schenectady Post Office as Second Class Matter. Subscription Rate 35 cents pu copy. Sfl.OO a year delivered anywhere in the t:nited States.

CONCORDI,ENS/S, Wednesday, Apri/28, .]976 HarlOw reflects on changed Union by HOPE J. FABJAN Union College has been highly accl~imed for its outstanding faculty; one prized attribute of that staff is Professor H.G. Harlew. Prof. Harlow, chairman of the civil engineering department, began his. care~r at Union in 1940 which qualifies him as being here long~;r than any of the teaching staff; a record 35 years. More important than the length of time he has dedicated to Union, however, Is its fine quality. When college students\ reflect on \ca.mpus change,\ the rebellious 60's come to mind ~ the demonstrations, peace Council or most other committees until the late. so·s. One of the most noticeable differences between student life now and then is the presence of womeh on campus. Prof. Harlow stated that ' the admittance of women to Union made a tremendo11s impact on the.school. Reminiscin~ back to when Union began its co-ed days - \When gids wete first admitted 1 told the football coach he would probably get the same girls out for football that we would, get to become civil engineers. Not so. We have had nine or ten in the department and they have been bright, attractive and a credit to the profession.\ young faculty couples; Cardboard Castles; . wl:lich were · reclaimed army barracl<s located in_ , the general area of Richmond House and serves as temporary dormitories to accomodate the tide of returning veterans;. and the construction of West College after 136 years had elapsed since North and South had been built. . One of Prof. Harlow's most rewarding roles at Union has been his collaboration with Prof. Huntley in a series of campus beautification projects. Working with campus committees . and several landscape architects over a · period of twenty years, plantings have been. made throughout the campus in an effort to compensate . for, the Dnt~h Elm disease which so badly scarre.d our landscape. Jazz pioneer -Benny Goodman .highlights Parent's Weekend festivities. • marches an<t burnt draft cards in all their blazing glory. Long before th.e sixties and long before we 'were even around, though, there was phenomenal change in the eharacter of student life. Prof. Harlow has witnessed' , these changes and· recounted them to me as vividly as if they had occurred last week. As faculty advisor to the Outing Club, a position he still holds, Prof. . Harlow acted as chaperone on trips to Lake George that included girls from Skidmor.e and Vassar. It is hard to envision any of the Union boys Going back a few years more, Prof. Harlow provided a most picturesque image of Union College devoid of Davidson, Fox, West and Richmond with instead a .seemingly endless pasture as its western boundary. The Professor also recalled a vision of World War ll navy student$ eating in the mess hcdl teniporar.iiy located in the Hale House Garden; a one man police force; Dutchman's Village, a · , shanty town which ·occupied most of what is now Garis Field and tb.e site of the Field House and provided housing for married students and Jackson's Garden has few patallels and the addition of the Robison Herb Garden, no)\' being constructed uhder Harlow's superv.ision, will add greatly to its appeal. Off campus, as a registered professional engineer, Prof, Harlow serves as consultant to architects, contractors and industries. The experiences he has gained through these. contacts have developed into, case studies which give )lis courses a relevancy that students welcome. The jazzman cometh Union c:fllege will award \King. of Swing\ Benny Goodman :;J.n honorary doctor of fine arts degree Saturday, May 1. The award will be bestowed on the celebrated clarinetist during the college's \Prize Day\- ceremony, held each spring to recognize outstanding students at the college. Goodman, who started playing clarinet at the age of ten, will be recognized for his integration of classical music and jazz, and for his general contribution to the field of music. Union College President Thomas N. Bonner will present the degree. Saturday evening, Goodman and his sextet will give a special' concert for students and their parents in the college's new Achilles Rink. Goodman is universally known as a founder of the \Big Band Era\ in the 1930's. Born the eighth of II children in Chicago in 1909/ he was given his first clarinet by a local synagogue. Six years later he joined Ben Pollack's band in Los Angeles. At the age of 25, in 1934, Goodman formed his ·own band. It launched the swing era in popular music with a fantastically successful stand at Los Angeles' Palomar Ballroom. But there is another side to Goodman, which first emerged in 1935. In that year, the celebrated Benny Goodman Trio brought a new dimension to swing in the form of soft, subtle ·~chamber music\ jazz. Goodman brought this new .style to Carnegie Hall in 1938, in what is called by many the most famous jazz concert of all time. That same year, Goodman made his first classical recordings with: the Budapest String Quartet. Later in his career, he- performed as guest soloist with the Boston Symphony, the Rochester Philharmonic, and the NBC Symphony. Goodman has made a number of international tours, the most \famous of which was his six-week tour of the Soviet Union in 1962. Goodman and his band played for more than 200,000 people, including Nikit:a Khruschev who attended the opening concert in Moscow. OnihudsDien operat~onal The Conduct Ombudsmen Committee (COC), a student review committee, is now fully operational. The purpose of the COC is to receive student, administrative, . staff, and faculty grievances, and air such grievances in a \student forum.\ The process of grievance review is as follows: (I) a particular member of the Committee is assigned a case (2) the individual is given one week to research the circumstances surrounding the grievance (3) a summary of these findihgs are then presented to the entire,COC. lf it is found that there is substance to the grievance, then a warning is issued: \You were quite wrong in this instance: if you come to the attention of this committee again this year, severe action shall be taken.'' In certain cases where issuance- of a warning. would be inappropriate, the parties involved will be referred to that person at the College who might be able to negotiate such grievances. · The COC is also creating a \fine system': which would be administered by -the Security Force; the Security Force would have the ability to levy fines upon those persons who have ignored warnings made by the 8ecurity Force for inappropriate behavior. This situation is repeatedly evidenced in the dorms, where requests to lower stereos by Security are ignored, if not laughed at. would be The COC is open to any and all grievances from anyone associated with the College. Grievances must be submitted to , the Committee in writing; forms for such written charges are available in Student Activities Office. The written charge should be put in what was former!¥ the \Union Book\ mailbox in the mail room. If there are any questions, call: Mary Mastrianni (Chairperson), 370-6615 Nancy Feldman; 370·6524 Robbie Stoltz, 370-6649 John Margolis, 346-9584 Jim Trump, 372-1681 Margie Kohn; 370-6638. tolerating a chaperone when they head north these days! A college student's life then was much more structured and restricted than in our times. Students were required to attend chapel .and attendance was recorded~ Too many absences led to a warning probation period and at times, dismissal. Attendence was also mandatory in class and records were sent to the dean's office.- The Committee on Standing, composed of the President, the Dean (one), and the Chairmen of the Four Division'S, passed judgement on the students who failed to attend classes regularly. The \delinquent student\ appeared before this assembly and was seated in a special designated chair (which Prof. Harlow paralleled to an electric chair). As strange as it sounds, quite a few students were forcefully retired from academic life because of this unforgivable misconduct. Students had little, if any, part in the legislative process. All proposed legislation was referred to the Faculty Council. Student!' were not admitted to the Faculty Stratton to speak next Monday Democratic Congl'essma_n Sam- Schorr's release of the Pike uel Stratton, who initiated the bill committee report and its passed by the Congress last subsequent publication in the month to investigate the leak of Village Voice· renewed the debate the Pike committee's intelligence over the press's First Amendment report to CBS newsman D!!niel rights versus the government's Schorr, will speak on \The Daniel need for secrecy. While Stratton Schorr Case: - Freedom of the and others have been critical of Press and National Security\ Schorr's action, a number of Monday, May 3. journalists· and politician& have Stratton's talk, part of the defended the newsman. A group Brackett Lecture series, will be at of 13 House liberals last month 8:15 p.m. in Room 016 of the issued a statement saying that Social Sciences Building. . Schorr had \performed an act ef The public is invited at no conscience for which we charge. commend him.\ Stratton's bill resulted in an Stratton, a lecturer at Union appropriation of $150,000 to the College from 1948 to 1954, House Committee on Standar<is , represents the 28th Congressional of Official Conduct to investigate District, which includes the leak. According to a Schenectady and Albany spokesman in Stratton's office, counties. He was first elected to that investigation is currently in Congress in 1959,. and is now the research and hiring stage. serving his ninth consecutive term. / THE UNION BOO'K . '. would like to invite the eRtire School: students, faculty. and staff, to have their picture taken, all at the same time. Please come fully dressed to Library Field at 1 p.m. in the afternoon on MAY 13. THANK YOU ' .' '. :. ' ' .... ~:· T~ Apr· Women's Castleton, H SUNYA ( American,\ Performing Theatre, 140 Albany. Fre1 D~tmes Skidmore $L00-$1.50, (through SUJ Fifty-Five p.m.,. Siena Siena CoUeg 783-2337. Jazz Em Mother's W Troy, 270-6< Biorhythn 7 p.m., HUJ 376 Bl'oadw 6, Arcade Donation. Student discl!ss last 1 Strauss Lou Varsity Siena, Hon Junior V: vs. Albany, by ALI The descr and Prioriti in . the A Concordy, , budgetary a Planning is , doing as th Colleg!1~S bt many otbe working on year, Union is all set an has been m 78 and 1971 Three stu1 Liz Pava an this comr .1·. appointed t \. Committ1 administra Enteman a Prof. Aubre the remain are Profs. K Weiner ant meet for se\ sometimes : With Prt Administrat The 1981 years for co Union mus1 to protect planning is the Comn requires budgets as possible. Fi less definite Committee dollar am 01 In order the Commi reports f ·programs a This forces and set dir1 When it is plan or goa money is st rest of th1 around it. . An imp< ·Committee Tuition for and for 19i It has been · tuition at 11

CONCORDIENSIS~ Wednesday •. April 28, ·1976 Page9 calendar ' \ -· ... .. . ' ' ' . . . . . ' . . . . . . ' . ~ ' . ' . . . : .•' ' Thurs., April 29 Women's J,acrosse,_ Union vs. Castleton, Home, 3:30 p.m. SUNYA Choral Concert, '\All Amedcan,\ 8 p.m., SUNY A Performing Arts Center; Main Theatre, .1400 Washington Ave., Albany. Free. . D~me$ at Sea, musical, Skidmore College, Sara:tega, $1.00-$1.50, I-584-5000 ext. 347 (through Sunday). Fifty-Five Oays at Peking, 7:.30 p.m., Siena Hall, Room 202,. Siena College, Loudonville, Free. 783-2337. Jazz Ensemble, 8:30 p.m., Mother's Wine Emporium, RPI, Troy, 270-6625. Biorhythm lecture, B. Funaro, 7 p.m .. , Human Growth ·center, 376 Broadway, ;2nd floor, Room 6, Arcade Building, Saratoga, Donation. Student trustees meet to discuss last board meeting, 6:30 in Strauss Lounge. · F ,·. fl.., April 30 Varsity Baseball, Union vs. Siena, Home, 3:30 p.m. Junior Varsity Lacrosse, Union· vs. Albany, Home, 3::30 p.m. Women's La4=rosse, Union vs. Middlebury, Home, 4:00 p.m. Varsity Go'U, Union vs. Williams, Home, 1:00 p.m. Women's Softball, Union vs. Russell Sage, 'Home, 4:0Q p.m. PARENT'S WEEKEND, The tady's Not for Bruning, 8:00 p.m., Nott Memorial, $.50 for students, $2.00 for parents. Cabar.et,. 9:00 ~nd 11:00 p.m, Carnegie Hall, $1.00. Film Colllntittee Presents: A Touch of Class, SS016, 10:00 p.m. $1:00. Rathskeller, $1.00 pitcher, 15¢ off all bottles, free peanuts and popcorn, 9:00 p,ni. to 'l:OO,a.m. Sat., May I Varsity B~seball, Union vs. · RPI, Home, 12:00 noon. Junior Varsity ~atrosse, Union vs. Siena, Home, 10:00 a.m. Varsity Lacrosse~ Union vs. RPI, Home, 2:00, p,;m. · .. Varsity GQif, Union at the NESC~C. . ' ~· ... VarSity Trac~, Union vs. Trinity, Away, 2:00 p.m. Women's Softball, Union vs. Adirondack Community College, Home, 2:00 p.m, · PARENT'S WEEKEND Faculty and Administrative open hooses, 9:00-11:00 a,rn., Pdze Day Ceremony, 11:30- 12:30, Library Plaza, Not~ Field. Picnic Lunch, 12:45-1 :30, Ubrary Plaza, Nott Field, $1.50. The Lady's Not for Burning, 2:00 p.m., Nott Memorial, $.50 for students, $2.00 for parents. Women~s Glee Club Concert, 2:00 p.m., Arts Building. Punch reception to follow. Student Art Exhibit, 2:00 p.m., Arts Building. Parent's Cocktail Party, 4:30- 6:30, Jackson's Gardens. Drinks $1.00. Film Committee Presents: A Touch of C'lass, 7:00, 9:00 and 11:00 p.m. SS016. $LOO. Benny boodman Concert, 8:30 p.m.,. Achilles Rink, Free, with tic'kets. Cocktails may be purchased. Don McLean, 8:00 p.m., Hudson Valley Community College, Troy, $1.00, $3.00. 283- 1100 ext 336. Parent's. Weekend Special at the Rathskeller, Heineken on tap for $3.00 pitcher. All day long. Sun., May 2. Organ Recital, 10:30-11:30 a.m., Professor Hugh A. Wilson, Memorial Chapel. Box Lunch and Auction, ll :30- 2:00 p.m., Union College Child Care Center, Hale House. The Lady's Not for Burning, Nott Memorial, · 2:00 and 8:00 p.m. $.50 for students, $2.00 for parents. Committee plans.for future by ALISON JAMESON The description of the Planning and .friortties. Committ.e~, given in the April 7 edition of Concordy, , read . '~Advise!! . pn budgetary and planning matters.\ Planning is what this committee is doing as they start work on the Colleg~',s budget for 1980. While many other colleges are still working on their budget for next year, Union's budget for 1976-77 is all set and substantial progress has been made toward the 1977- 78 and 1978-79 budgets. Three students, Glenn Wolfson, Liz Pava and Jennifer Port, sit on this committee. They were appointed by the Committee on Committees. The two administrators are Provost Enteman and Mr. Timberlake: so that the figure can be printed in the catalog that is read by prospectiye students. General trends have been plotted for the 1980's, but it is too ·early ~o plan definite amounts. Budgets set for the future have to be flexible bec,ause of the unknowns involved. Inflation is one of them, The Committee is estimating 7%, but there is no way to be sure what the rate of inflation will . be. Another uncertainty is the amount of money that Union will receive from the Federal Government. · For next year, Union will receive $25 less per student. The budget has to be flexible enough to absorb changes like this. 8eside planning for established programs, members of the Committee propose new ones that they'd like to see implemented. These are voted on by the Committee and then, if they are passed, provisions are rnade for them in the budget. Some goals that certain members of the Committee would like to see included in the budget are: l) a long range innovation fund (that is, some percentage of tuition set aside each year to use for academic innovations); 2) money alloteq to the library for the acquisition of new books and periodicals; 3) a number of scholarships awarded primarily on academic merit; 4) a campus utilization study to determine how to make the best use of the facilities. Mon., May 3 Varsity Golf, Union vs. Siena, Away. Jazz- Rock Ensemble with Chamber Singers, 8 p.m., College of Saint Rose,· Campus Center Dining Hall, Albany, Free, 471- 5102. .No Place to be Somebody, (Gordone), Senior Seminar, 8 p.m., Skidmore College, Wilson Chapel, Saratoga, 50¢, 1-5&4-5000 (Monday and Tuesday). Tues., May 4' Student Faculty Bridge Club meeting at 7:45 p.m. in Hale House lower lounge. A Birthday Party for Miss Teri Bresloff win be held m Lindenhurst, Long Island courtesy of Mr. Marc Gottlieb. All are welcome. Varsity Baseball, Union vs. Hamilton; Away, 2:00 p.m. Varsity Tennis, Union vs. Skidmore, Away, 4:00 p.m. Women's Softball, Union vs. Hudson Valley Community CoUege, Away, 4:00 p.m. Wed., May 5 Junior Varsity Lacrosse, Union vs. Siena, Away, 3:00 p.m. Women's Lacrosse, Union vs. Russell Sage, Away, 4:00 p.m. Varsity ·Lacrosse, Union vs. Wesleyan, Home, 3:00 p.m. Varsity Track, William's Traingular at Albany, 3:00 p.m. Women's Softball, Union vs. Siena, Home, 4:00 p.m. Capitol Hill Choral Society, Siena Schola Cantorum, world premiere of D. Pinkham work, 8 p.m., Siena College A'iumni Recreation Center, Loudonville, $5.00, 783-2431. Something Continued from Page 4 Happened. The bookstore does have copief. of Something Happened, and ·although it will cost you $2.25, it is worth it. Like Catch-22, this is a novel of outrage, of Jack of communication:, and of fatal relationships. However, Catch-22 was . about the absurdity and bureaucracy of army life, a society that lent itself to ri~icule. Heller's new novel deals with the American family, and you will swear that he had bugged ,your own home. Something Happened is a painfully realistic novel that attempts to explain why the American Dream has gone sour, and why the American family is falling apart. lt touched me so deeply that I could not put it down. Something Happened should be first on your list of books to be read over the summer. It is a novel to be devoured at every chance. You will never know abo).lt the quiet despair we are now going through, in our private lives, in our family lives, and in the business world, unless you read Joseph Heller's Something Happened. Job· market Continued from Page 3 objectively, one can see that, although it is not as good as we would like, a certain improvement in the· number of opportunities available is evident. Many companies which had previously cancelled recruiting programs in face of 1974's economic outlook are now returning to Union. This year's recruiters were· impressed with the quality of the class of '76 and several corporations have asked to return in the fall. Prof. Aubrey is the chairman, and the remaining faculty members are Ptofs. Kenney, Reece, Martin, Weiner and Maciariello. They meet for several hours each week, sometimes alone,- and sometimes With President Bonner's Administrative Cabinet. A gut reaction to the Beer Rally One major problem is that most seniors fail to inform the Placement Office of their plans. The Placement Office exists to help. procure jobs for Union College students and welcomes any questions directed to it. More information can be obtained by The 1980's will be difficult years for colleges and it is felt that Union must plan ahead in order to protect itself. Long-range planning is an important part of the Comml.ttee's work. This requires making estimated budgets as far in advance as possible. Financial constraints are less definite in the long run; the . Committee doesn't need definite dollar amounts to set priorifie~. In order to plan so far ahead, the Committee requires financial reports from the various pr~grams and offices on campus. Thts forces them to get organized and set directions for the future. When it is decided that a certain · plan or goal is important enoUgh, .. money is set aside for it and the rest of the budget is planned around it. An important activity of the Co~mittee · is setting tuition. Tuition for 1976 .. 77 will be $3,750 and for 1977-78 it will be $4,200. It .h~s been Union's policy to plan tu1t1on at least a year in advance 1 ~ittinued from Page 7 lights to ''EX's\ direction. (Public denials may be made but . these are the facts.) there were 18 teams in the rally, 16 male and 2 female teams, each· .sex competing for their own Uffany-like trophy. The winner of the male teams for the . second year in a row was Kappa Alpha: ·spirited on to win the S.chenecta-Toga rally in the sesqui,-centennial year of their brotherhoods .being. A major upset was leveled· this year as an independent team \Hattie Street\ placed second ahead of tile other favorites in this fraternity dominated event, a mere five seconds behind KA. The real secret behind Hattie Street's succe$s was that .. Rosey\ Rosenthal had a hot tip on the eighth at Saratoga, \Miss Back Street Crawler\ (paid 29.10, 12 .. 20, 8;40) and he had to get up their to place his bet. It was reported by other members of the team (Barry Schiff, Lou Barash, Alan Schiffman, Marty Silverman (driver) and Rob Mo11dschein (manager) that all Roscy kept screaming was: ' ' \Drink you bastards, .if we don't hurry I'm gonna lose a fortune.\ Trailing behind was Sigma Chi which came in a distant third nosing out fourth placed Gran Pricks II. The ••North Stars\ led the · girls teams while Smith House came in second. The rally began at the back of Chi Psi. \All right drivers, position cars.\ Drinkers stood lined up at a table, a little hole pierced the bottom of a can of Miller which they clasped to their mouths ready to pull the pop top. \Go!\ \Go!\ - \Click\ \Click \Click .. Click . ., Thuoosh, Thuoosh, Thuoosh, Thuoosh, the vacuum powered liquid came shooting down the participants' outstretched throats. Zoqoom, screeeech, Burp, Burp, Burp, Buuurrrp! - The rally began With dnnKers taking a running start, ala Gran Prix, to their cars which raced off to such bars at Little Richard's Roc's, Slyvester 1 .s, Burnt Hills lnn, Club 77, Archies. . . finishing up at D\Andrea's and off to the final destination: \THE HUB\. After the sixth stop the poiilt was reached to let the bodies tolerance level for alcohol visiting the office, located across override most people's the street from the main tennis inhibitions of barfing on their courts, or by calling 370-6176. laps. It reached the point with· some contestants that as soon as J o b d e s c rip t i o n s a n d the sweet water of a .. Vienna application questionaires for Split\ hit the inner lining of the Orientation Advisors for the stomach, it shot up again like Orientation of the Class of 1980 mo.rtar fire. will be available in Student It was reported that Saratoga Activities Office, Carnegie Hall, is requesting the names of all of on Thursday, May 6. These this year's contestants. The city's applications are due back in fathers do not wish to prosec.ute Student Activities Office at 4:00 these sporting enthusiasts but, au . p.m. on Monday, May 10. contraire, they want to put up \Candidates may sign up for metal plaques along the street to interviews when they return their commemorate the more famous applications. We urge all team members. For example one interested people to apply for this of the plaques stated: position and/ or help us in \William Henson, student of planning the Orientation Union College, Schenectady, ·program. Open Meetings are held New York stayed on this spot on each Tuesday afternoon at 4:30 Wednesday, April 21 .. ~And he p.m. in Strauss Lounge. stayed there and over there and another part washed down the . street and over there too.\ . ln a way the rally should be done to music. The 1812 Overture I think would be most appropriate. Like a Q.uaker Puffed Rice commercial! Picture it· . . ·-DAR LA. DAH DAH DAH DAH, · DAH, shot from Ill. I •• • WI SPRING BOOK SALE Sdaaffer Library Wednesday and Thursday MayS and 6 9:00a.m. 50~~: hardcover 15¢ paperback

PageiO CONCORDIENS/S, Wednesday, Apri/28, 1976 • • > • - ' ·_ •• '_ • • • • ' .:\ - '' ·The Classifiecfs Page of the New CONCORDIENSIS is primarily a student serv·icc;. as such, alii · material S\lbmitted wiU be published FREE of charge. To insure that the items submitted are ·printed, all copy MUST be in by Monday at 8:00 PM. Items to be repeated must have the The Campus Committee on Honorary Degrees is in the process of obtaining candidates for these degrees for the Commencement of the Class of 1977. The Committee seeks to obtain student input. If anyone would like to make a suggestion, please contact Cindy Greenspan, Box 1013, Jon Sargent, Box 0983, or Prof. Board. . number of runs specified.· The Union College CONCORDIENSIS assumes no responsibility for . typographical errors, but will print a correction. If you want a ride, or you have so~ething to ' sell, or you simply want to see something of your own printed up in a major world publication, :. PLEASE, don't hesitate! This is a FREE servh:e, so take advantage of it. If you wish to submitJ. material which conforms to the format of the Classifieds Page, simply slip it under the Concordy Office door (3rd Door Car~egie) or give to Hope Fabian at Richmond 105. . . Notice: Our Title IX Committee is charged with the responsibility of assessing academic advising and personai counseling with respect to sex bias. If you have ever experienced a situation of advising/ counseling that you believe was sex biased in some way, please contact me either in person or in writing. Names need not be included. Therese Ambrusko, Chairpersmi ( 101 Bailey Hall, Ext. 6229). Other Committee Members: Susan Britain, Tim Dowling, Susanna Miller. Summer Internships available: The New York Public Interest Research Group, Inc. (NYPIRG) will offer 16 summer internships in environmental preservation, consumer protection, and government affairs. Most openings have no specific qualifications, and each application is carefully reviewed. Specific NYPIRG internships include investigating the quality of water i~ ·the Hudson River, profiling all of th~ candidates for New York's U.S. Senate seat, conducting citizen teach-ins at county fairs across New York State, and setting up a consumer complaint center. NYPIRG is a nonpartison research and advocacy organization directed and supported by New York State college and university students. For more information or ~n internship application, students should write to Intern Coordinator, NYPIRG, One Columbia Place, New York 12207. Geoff Taylor and Chris Taylor, student representatives to the Union College Board of Trustees, will be available to an students .for comments and questions regarding the last board meeting in Strauss Lounge at 6:30 P..m. on Thursday, April 29. Issues such as tenure and the Nott Memorial will be discussed. The two student trustees will also answer any questions regarding their offices to students petitioning for the position of junior trustee. Jackson's Gardens Clean-up Party - Join in a litter clean-up of Jackson's Gardens, gloves and tools provided, free beer, to be held on Thursday, April 25, from l:OO ·to 5:00, Sponsored ~y PYE. Kosher Co·op: Are you interested in joining a Kosher Co-op kitchen next year? If you are and want more information, please - call Mike Chaskes or Irv Kaufman at 370-6680. · WRUC needti contestants for the first episo~ o!_ i~s new show, \The Game TDDAY'S CIDSSIOID PVZZLI tm,· :week's p1zzle selr~•: ACROSS 1 Glum 6 Part played 10 Cleansing ~ agent 14 Harmonize 15 Used in the mouth 16 Enormous 17 Lecherous looks 18 Slanders one's char- acter 20 ··-- majesty: Treason 21 Take in battle 22 Concerning 23 Firstmort- gage, e.g. 25 Forsakes 27 Brake repair job 30 Saskatche- wan and Su- wanee 31 Taken---·-: Startled 32 Sheltered areas 33 Gold miner's utensil 36 Neighbor of Alberta: Abbr. 37 Look angry 38 Bouquet holder 39 In addition 40 Crewmem- ber 41 Is deficient 42 Turn 44 Assimilate mentally 45 Handover 47 Carbonated beverage 48 Leave out 49 Caress 50 Fish 54 Mariner's text: 2 w.ords 57 Lone Ran- ger's sidekick 58 French sea· sons 59 Jumpfor- ward 60 Put on the record 61 Musical sym- bol 62 Optical product 63 Very skilled DOWN 1 Public walk 2 Arch 3 Materials in veins 4 Remiss 5 Affirmative vote 6 Songbird 7 Algerian sea- port 8 Shellac in- gredient 9 No. Amer. deer 10 Smail silvery fish 11 Astronauts' milieu: 2 words 12 Solicitor 13 Injurious plants 19 Military in- stallations 21 Miniscule 24 Writing fluid 25 Olympic Games con- testant 26 Always 27 King of Thailand 28 Black: Poet. 29 Avalanches 30 Spur part 32 Shrink away in fear 34 Solicits from 35 Lair 37 Affection 38 Drifter 40 Secure firmly 41 Hinged cover 43 Broadest 44 Small spot 45 Hinder 46 The very best 47 Oozes 49 Tentative goal 51 In front Of: Prefix 52 Very short distance 53 Class 55 Every 56 Busybug 57 Aromatic beverage Show,\ which will air on Wednesday, Ma,y 5th at 9:00pm on WRUC. This is not trivia. \The GaQle Show\ is a fast moving quiz show that'll really challenge your memory. If you liked those TV quiz shows (Jeopardy, Split Second, etc.), then you'll love our game. Serious and responsible contenders arc needed · from dormitories, fraternities and faculty/administration of Union College. A notice was sent out to the faculty /administration, RA's and fraternity presidents about the show. Check with these people for details or contact Steve Geloso at 346•9973 if interested. Lost: one woman's bracelet, tiny solid gold hearts joined together.- Please return as it holds great sentimental value; no q1,1estions ... reward. Cal1372-1681. Loot: two silver rings, one is a spoon ring and the other is plain. Please call Cheryl at 6474. Lost: one silver linked bracelet in vicinity of Sha Na Na concert. Great personal value. If found, please contact Wanda, 420 Richmond, at 346-9545. Lost: will the individual who took a maroon down ski-jacket from the Pub on April 4th, please return it to Security or calt393-8239. Lost: it; anyone lost a blond denim jacket (found in Humanities 115). well tough tits. Finders keepers, and anyway it fits me to a T.·However, if you want to be grabby about it, call 377-7170 and ask for Pink-eye. If you're reasonable we might come to an agreement. Pre-meds need not apply. Lost: cardigan sweater, black, label inside says CADET STORE, last seen at Delta Phi. It's my \father's old West Point Sweater and there is a reward. Call Lynn Sutton, 370-6635. Lost: one gold, hoop earring outside Psychology building. If found, please call Lori at 370-6733. Lost: one silver hoop earring. If found, please call 6140. Ride Wanted to New York City or Central Jersey on Friday, April 30. Please call Greg at 346-9735 or 6144. beautifully bound in red and gold. Now only $3.99. The perfect gift for Mom and Dad. Mature Driver Wanted: Spring - Summer \\\' Fall - to drive Ding-a- ling ice cream vending truck in Schenectady and surrounding areas. Apply at 729 Broadway, Schenectady. Good driving record needed. Tired of watching all your favorite TV shootouts, cartoons, soap operas and stock car races in dull and unexciting black and white? Why not get thorougl:lly addicted? We are looking to sell our 8 month old 19 inch G.E. color portable to any lucky person who makes the right bid of $270. If you are interested, please call 346-6653, so that you can make arrangements to see the product in action. Oh yes, please don't call during any great T.V. spectacular, like Star Trek -or the Six O'Clocj{ Sports Report with Rip Rowan as we are in deep meditative bliss at these times. For sale: 1974 Red Opel Manta in excellent condition with AM/ FM radio, low mileage and rear w~ndow defogger. $3,100.00. Call372-1681. For sale: 1971 VW Bug - excellent body and running condition. New muffler, valves, tires. Call 274-3672 eves. and weekends. Stereo C!lssette Decks for sale: Teac- 160, high quality recordings; Dolby system, full features, $150.00, retails $279 new, only 9 months old (2 yr. warra):lty). Panasonic Cassj:tte Deck, good recording on most systems a,t a lower price. One year old, retails $149 new, selling for $50,00, will dicker. Call Elven or Kevin at 346-9582. For Sale: Bruce Sprinpte'n album, \Born to Run\; never been opened- $3.99, Call 370-0159 Living in the Electric City can be cheaper than you think! Spacious,· luxurious Schen~ctady Apt. located one block from campus is equipped with indoor pool, sauna and paddle coujts. Price is extremely reasonable because we are looking to sublet due to illness in family. Apt. available for one person during Fall and Winter semesters and four people over the summer. Other residents (over school' year) extremely well adjusted and sociable. Inquire: Call Jeff or Jim at 312-2833. Roommate Needed to share beautiful apt. llh blocks from campus on Van Vranken Ave. Stores, laundromat, etc. within one. block. Reasonable rent. Call393-8743. Sophomore receives scholarship '. Union College sophomore from St. Mary's School in Michael J. Czarnecki of Schenectady. Schenectady, has been awarded Czarnecki, the recipient of the · the Willis R. Whitney-Peter S. scholarship, is a native of Sykowski Scholarship, Director Schenectady and a graduate of of Student Aid Joseph T. Maras Bishop Gibbons High School. He has announced. is majoring in pre-medicine. The scholarship was established in 1958 by the late Dr. Peter S. Sykowski of Schenectady. It is in memory of Dr. Willis R. Whitney, Union College trustee from 1919 to 1952 and trustee emeritus until his death in 1958 at th~-- age .. of 9if Dr. Sykowski, a 1935 graduate of Union College, died last year. Thirty students have received . the scholarship since its inception in 1958. First preference is given to students who have graduated .MADISON'S TYPING- SERVICE • Reports • Manuscripts · Thesis· • Respmes' •• Prompt Service . \' R~asonable Rates 433 Liberty St. 3'7l-5i4t Sebeneetady ·. Wanted for 1976-77 school year - A two bedroo'¥ apartment close to campus. If you are living in one now · or know of one in the area, please cail Cindy or Marjie !It 370-6638. Navajo and Zunj Indian Jewelry: direct from New Mexico is now being sold by Marcus. If interested in this fine turquoise and silver jewelry, please call 37()-6570. Special for Parent's Weekend (at the Bookstore): With You in Mind - over 100 poems by Priscilla Sanders, For Side: Stereo Components- Kenwood KR-70 FM\ Stereo Receiver. 35 watts/channel: $80. Sony TC-377-3 head reel to reel tape deck: $150. Package deal available for ~oth. Call377~27l4. For Sale: Car 1 1973 Audl Fox. 31,000 miles, PfB, A/C, AM/FM Stereo, 4 spd., manual trans., 24 mpg city, 28 highway, excelle~t mechanical condition, very good body, $3,000- Call377-2714 Prop List for the Lady's Not For BUl'lling. If anyone has any of the following items, please contact Debbi Slotoroff at 370-6701 as· soon as possiblP.. thank You. Small writing table, large band-mirror, nail buffer,:, large ppwder puff, tall thick candle, candle stands, long wooden matches, parchment, firetongs, laQtems, tankards (beer mugs with tops), 5 wine bottles, inkwell, abacus, canvas stool, large cross. Patti~ A Happy, Belated, Birthdayt Wish- H\& B (105) To the foxy la<}y I exchanged smiles with outside Steinmetz 101 at 1:30 on Tuesday - I like your smile and would like to see it again. Please reply in the personals column of this paper. Congtats to RA~ for Poly Sci distinction. Watch out for the June 2nd Concordy: material to make even the numb brain throb. Lpst: Features editor. Last seen writing article on, Schenectady - as- college-town for April 7th issue. If' found, please return via nearest mail box, to Student Activities; postage may be paid. For a good time look under Navajo in the For Sale column. MIKE HASSE: When will you haul your Bloated belly out from behind the TV and run around the college? UNION BOOK PLANS SPRING ART TENT SHOW On May 8th, art will bJoom under canvas at tile Spring Art Tent Show sponsored by Union Book. The outdoor exhibit, to be staged under a bog canvas tent_ in Union . Book's parking lot, will feature the works of many prominent area artists. Aceording to Sandra Howard, manager of Union Book's Art Department, \We have invited artists who work in a variety of mediums - oil, water colors,- acrylie paintings, pen and ink drawings, calligraphy, engravings, wood sculpture, pastels, and chareoal.. In addition to the artists' works, we will feature a deomonstration of charcoal portraiture by Diane Cotton Maurer, who'll be doing character sketches in chareoal.'; The Spring Art Tent Show will be staged Saturday, May 8th, in the parking lot, rain or shine, at the rear, of Union Book Company, 131 State Street, Schenedady, from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. f l r Bar, 1 Thre have .b the 19 soccer Co a< this tournai elected of Wes of Nt JunioF Conn. Man scorer which 12-2, I post-se. tourna1 Jim1 cr~ditec positio1 During As of Affairs one, a propose Develor progran in orde1 plannier coordi followir dorm p College life anc relation and t athletic~ It shot pro gran the co projecte budget. The Pro gran sort manage · affairs. are int pressure ends com pen loaded Affairs · The 1 will be 1 contact and a v ·order t \prod ~ (i.e. adr

on nd the as- If' ? by a to of rt pen In a in how or nion 10 CONCORDfENSIS, Wednesday, Apri/28, 1976 Page 11 Barb . Kessler 'crosses the plate for yet another Union score. Booters elect tri-Ga pt~ins 1 Three New England residents have been elected td-captains of the 1977 Union College varsity soccer team. Coach Bob Magee announced this week that · his · ECAC tournament-champion team has elected sophomores Jim Manning of Westport, Conn., Mike Smith of Northampton, Mass., . ana Junior Parker Antin of Darien, Conn. ·· · · ' ·· Manning was the fourth-ranked scorer on the 1975 Union team which finished with a record of 12-2, Including a . sweep of the post-season upstate ECAC soccer tournament. Jim scored seven goals and was credited with four a.ssists from his position as center fullback. During his high school career at Staples High School, Manning was named all-state back and ~as the team's top scorer in his final year when Staples won the Connecticut State Championship. Smith played his first season of varsity soccer last fall, coming from NQrthhampton High School where he was selected on the All- Western Massachusetts soccer team in 1973. Smith, who was an outstanding bask~tball player at Northampton has continued as a court star at Union where he was a mainstay for the Garnet's 17~6 basketball team this winter. Parker Antin has two years'of ~v;usity . soccer behind him. He captained his Darien High School team in 1971 and 1972 and was named in those years to the Fairfield County Ali~Star team. Baseball goes down by PUMPSIE GREEN to defeat twice This week the Union diamond men remained consistent with previous weeks, losing to Williams and Middlebury in ten innings. Pitching and untimely errors proved disastrous to the Garnet nine. Against Williams, Union almost pulled one out, but came up short finally bowing 7-5. After spotting Williams a 7-0 lead the Dutchmen rallied for five runs in the 7th inning. However, this uprising ended here~ as the Dutchmen were shut out over the last two .innings. The big gun for Union on- this muggy day was Carmen Gatta. The sophom0re right fielder went 3 for 3 at the plate and nailed an Ephrnan in his bid for home with his powerful left arm. Also collecting base hits for the Garnet men were Dan DeGregory, Gary Borgese, Jerry Logal)., John Busterud and Ransom Ruschak. ,The Garnet's unfortunate ways continued against the Panthers of Middlebury. After literally blowing the men from Vermont off Alexander Field, Union again fell victim to inconsistent pitching and shaky fielding. The Dutchmen's offense continued to roll as twenty hits were banged out against two Middlebury pitchers. Leading the way were John Busterud who collected 4 hits and 4 RBls and Jerry Logan with 4 hits inch.Jdirtg a horne run. Gary Borgese smacked 3 hits along with a long triple into the saplings in center field. Don Milder, Dan De Gregory and Whit Kennedy each had a pair of hits, while Skeeter Gazzola, Carmen Gatta and Ransom Ruschak garnered ·base knocks. In both contests, tireless Charlie Flanagan absorbed the defeats. Rugger split by DEBBIE KAUFMAN The Union Rugby Club got uff to a slow start last Saturday in their two games against Albany Medical College. Losing the fitst match, the- undaunted ruggers (now 1-3) came back to win the second and then swept through the post-game festivities in victorious fashion. In the first game, a small but scrappy Union 15 received their worst trouncing of the season at the hands of the young doctors of A me rica. (Somewhat suspiciously, no one seems to remember the score . .) Undoubtedly blinded by images of beer flowing at the post-match celebration, the ruggers suffered a series of mental lapses which frequently resulted in Med scores. Many a Union tackler w.as seen falling to the ground grasping only air as their opponents dazzled them with near flawless execution. Even the over enlarged throats of the Meddies did not provide suitable target for the frustrated Garnet. Leading the Union charge was a veteran studded serum featuring Jim Trump, Andy Walsh, and Mike \Rock\ Thompson, not to mention the awesome Steve Klak. Despite the Dutchmen's hustle and hard hitting however, the Albany team often seemed to be just one step ahead. Serum half Jim \Crazy Legs\ Stants directed the attack and received strong support from the rest of the serum, but at times it seemed to no avail. Likewise the back's play proved somewhat lackluster and was highlighted by missed tackles and dropped passes. Only the play of rookie sensation Chip Fenn brightened an otherwise miserable showing. His speed and ; bone. jarring tackles left several Med players ·wondering what had hit them. His try, coupled _with a drop-kick by Jim Stants, accounted for the Union point totals. The tables were turned in the \B\ game as the Dutchmen dominated play and crunched their cross town rivals by the score- of 12-10. Led by the revenge-seeking Dave DiMarco, Harvey Friedman, and John Monaco who hadjust finished the MCATs, the Union players displayed a sure handedness and tackling ability which had been noticeably lacking in the earlier game. The efforts of Jon Kurz, Earl \Hit'em With Your Head\ Lovell, and Peter Parisi proved invaluable to the winning effort. Tallies by Dan Breg, Chris Taylor and Andy Walsh accounted for the Union score. The Rugby team plays two games at home this weekend against Albany State. Everyone is invited out to support their teams at 10:30 a.m. on Library Field. Development office by LIZ PAVA As of July I, 1976, the Student Affairs staff will grow in size by one, a Director for the recently proposed and accepted Student Development Program. This new program will come into existence in order to lend the much needed planni,ng approach to and coMdination among the following: Student Activities, dorm programs, fraternities, the College Center and Pub, student life and morale, behavior and relationships, volunteer programs, and the non-intercollegiate athletics and recreation program. It should be noted that this program will be operative within the confines of the already projected Dean of Students' budget. The Student Development Program has been created as a . sort .of \second-level management\ within student · affairs. The program and its head ' are intended to provide new pressures, new means, and new ends instead of simply compensating for our . heavily loaded and overworked Student Affairs staff. The program and its director will be expected to be in constant contact with both a large number and a wide variety of students in · ~rder to, as Dean Smith said, _Prod a~d. remind busy people\ (I.e. admmtstrators in piU'ticular) ' of what needs to and can be done in the aforementioned areas. Craig Carlson, curr~lltly Assistant Director of Admissions and Assistant Dean of StUdents, has been recommended for the post. If and/ or when his appointment becomes official, it wiil be his responsibili.ty to do, in addition to initiating and implementing his own ideas. the following: (I) Improve communicatiops· among the programs, named in the first paragraph, . and the governance structure particularly according to program emphasis and accountability, (2) encourage student-faculty contacts and relationships throughout the programs, and (3) comba~ and ameliorate some of the blatant weaknesses of the student body, including narrowness of perspectives, indifferences, competitiveness, and prejudices. The Student Development Program, while all of its goals, objectives, and courses of action have yet to be finalized, looks .to be 8 as Dean Smith has said, a program that .. on one hand offers services to other programs, on another hand implements for other programs, on another hand acts as a consultant, and on all hands brings · a variety of significant programs closer to the everyday liv~s and development of students.\ · Sig Phi's Tom Boyle running to where the action isn't. Roof repair proposed Continued froni' Pqe I Schaefersays that he has read the report thoroughly and gone over the building with consultants. He said that his conclusion is that the building \is generally in excellent condition.\ Should the Board be Skeptical Mr. _Schaefet said of himself, \l am deeply interested in the preservation of buildings in this State (New York). It is mainly a fascinating state with some of the greatest buildings of America in it.\ · When asked if the Board should be wary of the low estimate given them, Mr. Schaeferreplied, \They souldn't be, for the simple reason that the firm that has figured the estimate has been doing work at Union for approltimately thirty years. They have been all over the roof of the Nott Memorial and know what needs to be done.\ Mr. Schaefer explained that the Mesik estimate was so high (about $350,000) because the Mesik sudy called for total replacement of the roof. Mr. Schaefer said, ''There is a fantastic problem in replacing the design of the roof. We don't feel that the roof has to be replaced to that degree. Slate has a long life, but needs occasional repair.\ College Sentiment it appear~ that one of the most influential factors in the Board's decision will be student, faculty, ·and aluinni sentiment toward the Nott. Provost Enteman said, \If they see that faculty and students care, I think they (the Board) would be inclined' to vote for it (the proposal).\ Board member Sally Burne said, \This (student, faculty, and alumni support) would definitely help influence the Board.\ Provost Enteman seems to feel that it is not really known at this point to what extent people care about the Nott. He added as his personal feeling, \Union needs that thing to lift its spirit up.\ >J·. ..

Page 12 CONCORDIENSJS. Wednesday, Apri/28, 1976 concordy sports Racket men • win one b} :\lASU:'-t B. (;0:\IBEIH; I he li nion College tennis team's perfect record fell this Saturday when they walloped Siena. 9-0. In posting their first \lctory ol the season the tennis SlJ uad played one of their best mate hcs of the year. C nion not nnlv won all singles matches but .d'l' .dl J,,uhk,. In a match played earlier this week. Hartwick ddeated Lmon by a score of 7-2. Steve Marcus and Paul Wantuck both had two set victories in that match. The fine coaching of I. Singh seemed to have paid off during the Siena match. Only one match went three sets. ·ln that match Rolf Lipton won 4-6, 7-5, 6-3; Dennis Lindenberg and Bob Gerber had the most impressive vicotries of the day, they defeated thcir oppuncnts 6-1. tl-1:6-(). o-0. respectively. Captain Steve Marcus was victorious by a score of 6-1, 0-2. Paul Wantuck won 6- 2. 6-2, while Andrew Niessen defeated his opponent 6-4 and 6- 0. Lindenberg and Larry Fein teamed up to win a hard fought doubles match, 7-6, 6-2. Marcus and H,Jftman \~erL' \ictorious by the scores ul b-4 and 6-J; v.hile Jef! Scheininger and Gerber ended the perfect day by winning · 6-3, 6-1. It's not time to strike up the band and sing \Happy Days are Here Again\ but I'm sure we can expect a few more victories again this year. Union now stands at I and 5, but things are beginning to look up; right guys'? Note: Union Lost to Binghamton State on Monday night 9-0. INTRA MURALS Men's Singles Tennis Ladder: Entries for this event are now being accepted in the Intramural Office. All Union College students, faculty and staff are eligible to participate. Play will begin on Monday, May !st. Men's Singles Racketball Tournament: A single elimination racketball tournament will be conducted on Thursday, May 6th, at 7:00 pm., ln the alumni gym. Entries will be accepted until Wednesday, May 5th. Trophies will be presented to the first and second place finishers. Mixed Platform Tennis Tournament: There will be a Co- Ed platform tennis tournament on Saturday, May 1st, at 1:00pm. Since it is also Parents Weekend, Father-Daughter, Mother-Son partners are eligible for the Tournament. Trophies will be presented to the winner. Entries will be accepted in the Intramural Office in Alumni Gyrn. . , Tennis Courts: Union College Tennis Courts can be used by faculty, students, staff, and alumni only. In an attempt to insure maximum court utilization by the Union Community, the tennis courts will be supervised during the following hours: Union Ave. Courts: Mon - Fri 5 pm - 7 pm; Sat - Sun 12-5 pm. Main Courts: Mon-Fri. 7-9 pm; Sat- Sun 12-5 pm. The recreation supervisor will check for Union l.D.'s and proper tennis attire. If the courts are full and people are waiting,the supervisor will limit court time for singles to 1 hour, and doubles to l\,6 hours. Varsity tennis, intramural, and phys. ed. classes will have priority. On Parent's Weekend the courts will be reserved for students and then parents on Sunday, May 2nd, from 10 am - 2 pm. The Rude-man swinging too late to aid the Dutchmen. Trackmen spike two by BILL PECK The Garnet track team got off on the right foot as they posted two narrow victories over local rivals, Albany State and RPI. The Albany State meet, held last Wednesday on the Great Dane track, went down to the last event, the javelin. The Dutchmen needed at least a l-2 finish to win, and Rich Norman made sure he won with a great toss of 20 l '10\. an effort good enough to qualify him for the national Div. III meet. However, on his last toss, Faddoul of Albany State appeared to win the meet by bettering Union's Tom Kistler. But in his jubilation Faddoul fouled and his throw was voided, thus giving second place to Kistler and the win to Union, 74-71. It was a day for many outstanding efforts by the Union team, with J mile records, with efforts of 4:21.5 and 14:4 L3 respectively However, Kevin Scheuer outdid J onsey in the mile, winning with a time of 4:21.3. ;\lorman's javelin toss also set a school mark. Bob Moffat set a track record in winning the 440 in 49.4, and copped a personal best in winning the 220 in 22.9 second,s. Other top efforts were turned in by Keith Crimmins in the lligh jum ( 6'5\) Earl 'Chilton in the triple jump ( 43'4W'), Steve Mastitas in the pole vault (13') and Matt Blum's leading a Union sweep in the high hurdles with a time of 16.5. At home last Saturday, the Dutchmen faced their oldest of rivals, the turkeys of RPL The meet was fairly close, with the Garnet winning 76-67. Lee Parish was a double winner, taking the 100 in 10.3 and the 220 in 22.6. Steve Jones again won the l and 3 mile nms, though off his record pace of a few days earlier. Mark Decker, Matt Blum, Bob Moffat and Rich Norman also posted wins for Union as they gobbled up the Engineers in the high jump, 120 highs, 440 and javelin. The Dutchmen entertained Hamilton this afternoon (Wed.) and travel to Trinity this Saturday. Capt. Dave Plumer is expected to return from a slight knee InJUry soon and will hopefully he! p the team stay undefeated. STATS UNION AT ALBANY STATE 440 Relay: Albtu!J (~3.6), Union Millo nm: Kevin S~b<uer, U(4:ll.3), Jones, U(4:ll.S), Benmen, Albany Shot Put: HoUoway, AlbAny (<A5' 7'12''), Rohln, Albany, Allclreozzl, Albany Lon; Jump: Vet;o, Albany (21' 3\) Faddoul, Albtuly, Febles, Albany 111 bllho; Blum, U (16.5), Decker, U (17.0), Bar!Nr, u (17.7) .ut: Molfat, U (49.4), Auser, U (51.0), Rhett, Albany 1M: DUClldy, Albany (10 .• ), Herrlna, U (li.5), Griffin, Alblmy 108: Kevb1 Sebouer, U (1:53.9), Ryan, Albany, Sullhan, Albany 44t bunlleo: Cole and Williams, Albony (~.8), Phlllipo, Albany Diocua: Holloway, Albany (l30'W'), Norman, 1 U (1:13' 10'/,\) Holm .. , Albany Hlp Jump: Ceoare, Albany (6' 5''), Crimmins, U (6'5\) V erJO, Albany Ul: Mofi'at, U (12.9), Du .. dy, Albany, Herrln1o U (13.0) Laxmen losing ground, games 3 mile run: Joneo, U (14:41.3), Burns, Albany, Jad<~~m, Albuy Pole Vault: Mlllllta., U (13'), B<nuonno, U (lll 6\) DIU\Yey and Bennet, Albany Triple Jump: Faddoul, Albany (43' 5y,''), Cblltoa, U (43' 4'h\) Cesare, Albany by NEAL SCHWARTZ On Daley field yesterday afternoon, Union lost to St. Lawrence, during a game f requcnted by rain, by a score of 13-ll. This brought their season record to 2-4. Previous to yesterday's game, the Dutchman faced some tough competition m Williams and Middlebury. Union fell to the sticks of both schools by !2-9 and 11-10 scores respectively. The Williams game saw Union matching or bettering their opponents in the 1st. 3rd, and 4th 1 periods yet Williams ouscored Union 6-1 in the second period to walk off with the victory. Union was leading theat game 4-2 after Jim Collin unwinds against St. Lawrence. the I st period. Going against 20th ranked (nationally in the college division) Williams. Ray Stecker accumulated five goals and an assist to lead U nion.1 John Thompson scored two goals and was credited with two assists while brother Jim supported the Union cause with two goals and ~ an assist. Jed Kanner and Bruce Davis also were in the scoring column with an assist each. Freshman Alan Greenberg made 20 saves in the nets. Union almost made the comeback of the year last Saturday on Daley field with an .\ccepted Candidates Day Crowd, but they started their rally a bit late and ran out of steam at the very end. Union was down 5 goals v.ith 9 :25 left in the third period. but \\l:llt <ln l<l hJa,t li\t: goal' pa~t \I iddlchur~ ·, (',,ltn \her to tie the score at I 0-10 with 5:45 to play. The key Uutchman in Lht: drive to tte th'e score were Ray Stecker, Stu Napear, and Andy finished with six . Bruce Allison's Dutchman held the Panthers of Middlebury tight for a bit over 4 minutes until Matt Johnson of Middlebury took advantage of Alan Greenberg being drawn away from the crease to score on an open net. Ray Stecker finished with six goals for the Dutchman. Stu Napear, Hank fleming, Mike Beshler and Andy Brooks scored one goal apiece. Credited with • assists for Union on that chilly Saturday were Don Ward, John Thompson, and Jim Thompson. AI Greenberg stopped 16 shots for Union in the goal. Union faces the nearby school of R. P. I. this Saturday at 2 p.m. on Daley Field before a Parents Weekend Crowd. Mile relay: Union (3.16.8), Albany Javella: NOI'Jil5D, U(l01' lOU), Kistler, U (166' 3\) Faddoul, Albany RPI AT UNION JaveHn: Nvrman, U (187 l\) Ropn, RPI, Klotle, U (169' 1\) Lon& Jump: Ale~andor, RPI (ll' 7 1 h\) Rad<utre, RPI, Harktnrlder, U (19' 8%\) His!> Jump: Decker, U (5' 8\) Ro&ers, U (5' I\) 44t Relay: RPI (44.9), Union (45.6) Millo run: Jomea, U (4:24.7), Alexander, RPI, Kerln S.~r, U (4:38.2) Sbot Put: Lowell, RPI ( 47 1\1,\) Sherman, t; (41' 3\) Dipace, U (38' 9 1 ,4\) Pole V oult: Mull tal, U ( 13'), Ward, U {12') Triple Jump: Rackliffe, RPI (43' 3\) Chilton, U (41' 9\) Aleuodet, RPI tla HIP.: Blum, U (15.5), (;reene, RPI, Hepftn&et, RPI ....., Mollat, \ (50.4~ <;oodman, RPI. Au1er. ,, 151.5) let: Pariob, L (IO.JJ, Obltd, Hrl. llerrlng. 1· (iU) Alt: Peuo, RPI (U9.8), fbbot•. l' (1·01 6\. Koloey, RPI 4Ct Hurdles: Greene, RPI (56.1), Mark Sdteuer, U (56.11), H'EPFINGER£ RPI llt: Psrlob, U (ll.li), Moffat, U (22.8), Olltad, RPJ 3 mile mn: Jonn, U (14:53.3), Groden, RPI, Herbert, Rl'l Mile Relay: RPI (3:16.9, Union (3:18.1) Dlscut: Lowell, RPI (137' lY,~), NonniiD, U (ll3' l'h\l. Sherman, U (117' l'h\) The Women's Lacrosse team has two home games this week, Thursday at 3:30 and Friday at 4:00, vs. Castleton State and Middlebury, respectively. The girls then travel to visit arch-rival ,'Skidmore College Monday at ' 4:00. Come out for these games to cheer the girls on. They need and want your support. ' j': ., ~{ ' •• <! ~! I' r ; -j i I I \ ·'

Page 12 CONCORDJENSIS, Wednesday, April 28, 1976 concordy sports . Racket men • win one by MASON B. GOMBERG The Union College tennis team's perfect record fell this Saturd~y when they walloped Siena, 9-0. In posting their first victory of the season the tennis squad played one of their best matches of the year. Union not only worr all singles matches but also all doubles. In a match played earlier this week, Hartwick defeated Union by a score of 7-2. Steve Marcus and Paul Wantuck both had two set victories in that match. The fine coaching of L Singh seemed to have paid off during the Siena match. Only one match went three sets. •In that match Rolf Lipton won 4-6, 7-5, 6-3; Dennis Lindenberg and Bob Gerber had the most impressive vicotries o~ _the day, they defeated their opponents 6-1, 6-l; 6-0, 6-0, respectively. Captain Steve Marcus was victorious by a score of 6-1, 6-?. Paul Wantuck won 6- 2, 6-2, while Andrew Niessen defeated his opponent 6-4 and 6· 0. Lindenberg and Larry Fein teamed up to win a hard fought doubles match, 7-6, 6-2. Marcus and Hoffman were victorious by · the scores of 6-4 and 6-3; while Jeff Scheininger and Gerber ended the perfect day by winning · 6-3, 6-L It's not time to strike up the band and sing \Happy Days are Hete Again\ but I'm sure we can expect a few more victories again this year. Union now stands at I and S, but things are beginning to look up; right guys? Note: Union Lost to Binghamton State on Monday night 9-0. INTRAMURALS Men's Singles Tennis Ladder: Entries for this event are now being accepted in the Intramural Office. All Union College students, faculty and staff are eligible to participate. Play will begin on Monday, May 1st. Men's Singles Racketball Tomnament: A single elimination racketbaU tournament will be conducted on Thursday, May 6th, at 7:00 pm., In the alumni gym. Entries will be accepted until Wednesday, May 5th. Trophies will be presented to the first and second place finishers. Mixed Platform Tennis Tournament: There will be a Co- Ed platform tennis tournament on Saturday, May lst, at 1:00pm. Since it is also Parents Weekend, Father-Daughter, Mother-Son partners are eligible for the Tournament. Trophies will be presented to the winner. Entries will be accepted in the Intramural Office in Alumni Gym. . , Tennis ·Courts: Union College Tennis Courts can be used by faculty, students, staff, and alumni only. In an attempt to insure maximum court utiliZ!ltion by the Union Community, the tennis courts will he supervised during the following hours: Union Ave. Courts: Mon - Fri 5 pm - 7 pm;. Sat - Sun 12-5 pm. Main Courts: Mon-Fri. 7-9 pm; Sat- Sun 12-5 pm. The recreation supervisor will check for Union I. D.'s and proper tennis attire. If the courts are full and people are waiting,the supervisor will limit court time for singles to l hour, and doubles to I~ hours. Varsity tennis, intramural, and phys. ed. classes will have priority. On Parent's Weekend the courts will be reserved for students and then parents on Sunday, May 2nd, from 10 am - 2 pm. The Rude-man swinging too late to aid the Dutchmen. Trackmen spike two by BILL PECK The Garnet track team got off· on the right foot as they posted two narrow victories over local rivals, Albany· State and RPl. The Albany State meet, held last Wednesday on the Great Dane track, went down to the last event, the javelin. The Dutchmen needed at least a l-2 finish to win, and Rich Norman made sure he won with a great toss of 201'10''. an effort good enough to qualify him fOF the national Div. III meet. However, on his last toss, Faddoul of Albany State appeared to win the meet by bettering Union's Totn Kistler. But . in his jubilation Faddoul fouled and his throw was voided, thus giving second place to Kistler· and the win to Union, 74-71. It was a day for many outstanding efforts by the Union team, with 3 mile records, with efforts of 4:21.5 and' 14:41.3 respectively However, Kevin Scheuer outdid J onsey in the mile, winning with a time of 4:21.3. Norman's javelin toss also set a school mark. Bob Moffat set a track record in winning the 440 in 49..4, and copped a personal best in winning the 220 in 22.9 second.s. ·other top efforts were turned in by Keith Crimmins iil the high jum (6'5\) :Earl 'Chilton in the triple jump (43'4W'), Steve Mastitas in the pole vault (l3') and Matt Blum's leading a Union sweep in the .high hurdles with a time of 16.5. At home last Saturday, the Dutchmen faced their oldest of and travel tg Trinity this Saturday. Capt. Dave Plumer is expected to return from a slight knee injury soon and will hopefully help the team stay undefeated. · STATS rivals, the turkeys of RPI. The UNION ~T ALBANY STATE ~ . l 1 . • h h .ut Re117: AJ~y (43.6), llnion meet was 1alf y c ose, Wlt t e MlJo l'lill: Jtetia SebeUft', U(4:ll.3), Jones, Garnet winning 76-67. Lee. Parish 1.1(4:31.5). ~ Albaay was a double winner, .taking. the s~ l'al: Holloway, Albally (4S' 7~\>. Roblll, Albuy, Alldreoul, Albany 100 in. I0.3 and the 220 in 22.6. ~ Juap: Vqo, Albuy (l2' 3\) Fadlloul, Steve Jones again won the 1 arrd A'::'w!:.:w;i;!~' < 16 • 5 ), Deeker, u (t 7 .o), 3 mile runs, though off his record .... _., u (17.7) pace of a few days earlier. Mark .._. M~ u (49.4), Auaer, :U (51.0), Rhdt. k Albuy Dec er, Matt Blum, Bob Moffat 1et; DIICIKly, Albany (lD.4); Herrin 1 , u and Rich Norman also posted (tt~5), GrilllD,.AibiUiy wins for Union as they gobbled Itt: Kevla Sclleuer, u (1:58.9), Ryan, Albmy, Sdl!•aa. Allluy up the Engineers in the high 4tl ·ltulciM: Colt ~lld WUUQIA, Albany jump, 120 highs, 440 and javelin. (§D~~~AlU, (llOW), Norman, The Dutchmen entertained 1 u (ll3' ti'N). Holllles, Albmy Hamilton this afternoon (Wed.) Hlp Jwap: Cnart, Albany (6' 5\) Crlmmlnl, U (6'5\) Vera\- Albany llt: 1\l!llfat, U (l%;9), Ducady, Albany, Herrtaa. 1:1 (l3.t) 3 ide run: J-, U ·(1,.:41.3), Bllmt, Albany, Laxmen losing ground, games JackHa, AlbuJ . Pole Vault: l\llasiltu, lJ (13'). 8oliiiJIUO, U (lll '6\) D.ney a114111eium, AIIIIIIIY . . Trifle Jump: Faddoul, Albany (43' 5¥:.\) CIIIJtoa, U (-43' 4Y,\) Cesue, All!IIIIJ by NEAL SCHWARTZ On Daley field yesterday afternoon, Union lost to St. Lawrence, during a game frequented by rain, by a score of 13-ll. This brought their season record to 2~4. Previous to yesterday's game, the Dutchman faced some tough competition in Williams and Middlebury. Union feU to the sticks of both schools by 12-9 and 1 J -I 0 scores respectively. The Williams game saw Union matching or bettering their opponents in the lst, 3rd, and 4th 1 periods - yet Williams ouscored Union 6-1 in the second period to walk off with the victory. Union was leading theat game 4-2 after Jim Collin unwinds against St. Lawrence. the 1 st period. Going against 20th ranked (nationally in the college division) W ill i a ms, Ray S t e c ke r accumulated five goals and an assist to lead Union.1 , John Thompson scored two goals and was credited with two assi:'lts while brother Jim supported the Union cause with two goals and ~ an assist. Jed Kanner and Bruce Davis also were in the scoring column with an assist each. Freshman Alan Greenberg made 20 saves in the nets. Union almost made the comeback of the year last Saturday on Daley Field with an Accepted Candidates Day Crowd, but they started their rally a. bit late and ran out of steam at the very end. Union. was down 5 .goals with 9:25 left in the third period, but went on to blast five goats past Middlebury's Colin Myer to tie the score at 1 0-lO with 5:45 to play. The key Dutchman in the drive to tie th·e score were Ray Stecker, Stu Napear; and Andy finished with six _ Bruce Allison's Dutchman held the Panthers of Middlebury tight . for a. bit over 4 minutes until Matt Johnson of Middlebury took advantage. of Alan Greenberg being drawn away· from the crease to score on an Milt re'-1: UnJon.(!3.l6.8) 1 Albany ~al'din: Nonnan, U(l01' lOll), Kistler, U (lW 3\) Faddoul, AJINay lll'l AT UNION JlneiiD: N'rlman, 1.1 (117' 1'), ·Ropn, RPI, iC!etler, u (1,9' 1\) . Lona .Jump: Alexander, RPI (11' 7V,\) Rackutre, RPI, liarkenrlder,. U (19' BY:,\) Hlp J-p: n~. u (5' 8\) Rozen, u .(5' i\) +II RelaJ: RPI (44;9), Union (45.6) Mile l'WI: JO!tii, U '(4:14.7), Aleuncler, RPI, Kerin Sdll!m, V <•~.~) Sl!ot Put: Lowtl~ RPI (47' 71h\) &herman, U ( ... l' 3\) Dipace, U (31' 91,1\) Pole Vaalt: MMIItaa, 1.1 (13'), Ward, U (il') ·Triple Jump: Raddffl'e, RP~ (43' 3''), ChDton, U (41' 9\) A!eUJIIIH, RPI t2t HIPI: Bllllllo, U (15.5),. Greene, JI,Pl, H'!Pf!JIIfl'; RPI . :U.: M<llrat, U (58.4), Goodman, RPI, Au1er. .u (51.5) 111: Plridl, U (10~), Olmd, RPI, Herrlnz, U (1U) Ulr Pitto, lll'l (1:59J), Ebbtt&, U (1:01.6), KelleJ, RPI 4tl Hurillea: GreeUJ, RPI (Sii.l), Mark Sdleuer, U (!16.8), H'~PFINGEll£ RPI lZt: Pllrilll. U (11.6), Moffat, U (22.8), Ol•tad,IU'I 3 lillie run: Jona, U (14:53.3), G1oden, RPI, Herbert, liU'I Mile RelaJ: RPI (3:16.9,. Union (3:18.1) . Dilcul: LOweD,. RPI (137' l'h\) Norman, U (tU' l~\) Sherman, U (117' 3~\) open net. . the Women's Lacrosse team Ray Stecker finished with .six has two home games this goals for the Dutchman. Stu week, Thursday at 3:30 and Napear, Hank Fleming, Mike · Friday at 4:00, vs. Castleton Beshler and ~ndy Broo~s scor,ed .. State .and Middleb~ry, on~ goal aple.ce. Credtted .~th • . respectively. The girls then asststs for Umon on that chilly travel to visit arch·ri'Val Saturday were D~n Ward, John ·;skidmore College Monday at Thompson, and Jtm Thompson. 4:00. Come out for these Al Gr~en~rg stopped 16 shots ·.games to cheer the girls on. for Vmon m the goal. They need and want your Union faces the nearby school! support of R.P .. I. this Saturday at 2 p.m. ' _on Daley Field before a Parents·'-----------:-----' .Weekend Crowd. · ' • .. IIJ ; ) ! \ f I

