• UDIO_D- • • coJiege __...on cor tensts Vol. 105, No., 10 Wednesday, .January 14, 1976 Hockey forfeits Rankin ineligible for Cortland contest by DAVID SANDERSON . credit hours, a requirement he easily fulfilled. Under these conditions Jack came to Union with a complete guarantee of eligibility. He then proceeded to participa,te in full capacity with the Hockey Program here. Feminist Kate Millett lectured to a Union audi~n(:e last Mond4y on \Sex and Culture.\ Story page 11. In starting a new program in any sport, no rnatter how much a success it is, there are bound to be problems in many different shapes and forms. Union's new Varsity Hockey Program this year is certainly no exception. Among the difficulties none stands out greater than the r.ecent forefeiture of an earlier season non-division game to Cortland State. This unfortunate occurrence was the result of a technical oversight concerning the eligibility of one member of the team, a technicality that meant an infraction of the rules which On December 13th, 1975, Jack, in talking with Coach Harkness, mentioned that he had been enrolled at Lake Superior State College (a four year institution in Michigan) in the fall of I 973. Although Jack only attended the College for several months of the fall term, he did participate in two Junior Varsity games for the College while there. Being such a short stay he never felt it had any significance or further bearing on his future college athletic eligibility. Hence it was not mentioned or known to any authorities. Immediately upon receiving this information Coach Harkness and Athletic Director Allison contacted- the ECAC officials to find if this oversight would have any effect on Jack's eligibility. The total story was revealed te several officials at that time and because of the complex nature of the situation nothing was determined, except to hold a complete investigation early the next week. Jack sat out the game with Salem State that night. ,. Concordy exflusive: • · seemed to be so trivial that one has to sit back and really question the validity of the ECAC and NCAA regulations. Bonner plots Arts' future Out of the twenty-two-man Varsity Hockey squad only one . player; Jack Rankin, did not come directly to Union from high school. Jack (who hails from De~trborn; Mich,igan) bad attended Henry Ford Community College the previous year, where he'· ·aid nl:}t participate ·in any · college hockey. He played instead in a Detroit-area Junior League< during the 1974-75 season .. When ·considering coming to Unionhe had made certain with both the coaches at Union and Henry Ford and with Union's Athletic Director Allison that he would be eligible to play Varsity Hockey at Union for the 1975-76 season. ln an interview January 12 With Coricordiensis, Union College President Thomas Bonner explained that · the future of Union's Arts program will await the settling -of several unanswered educational policy questions. According to the President, the . College will be appointing, (it is hoped, this term), a team of consultants who will examine the status and-future of ·the Ar-ts at Union. Together with tlre Trustees_. the constnltants will determine what . developmental course the College will follow in the ·future .. Dr.· Bonner pointed out thiit short-term :renovations to existing College buildings_will not solve. the problem of Union's long-range Arts plan, and added that, \We must determine what role the Arts will play for all Union students\ In r~cent tours of the Arts building and the Nott Memorial. the Presid.ent noted the problem. that exists in these aging\facilities remarldng, \We•ll work with maintenance to make the buildings more livable ... the Nutt Memorial as it stands is a hazard.'; Still, he continued, such short--term renovations don't answer the questions concerning Union'$ more permanent Arts Department needs. Two basic future alternatives for the College rely on the Arts Consultants' decisions. Dr. Bonner explained that the College can decide to construct a comprehensive, new Arts Center (complete with an Art gallery and classroom facilities) or it can erect a structure primarily for theatre, with fund's going· to massive renovatiofi of existing buildings. Dr. Bonner stressed that no decisi9n on the depar.unent's future will be made ttntil \we determine the educational program~& future.'~ The difficulty, Dr. Bonner added, is that the program's development is hatnpered by the lack of facilities by DAVID MOSKOWJTZ and· budget. _Gyms and Calendars In reference to the persistent campus rumors· circling about a planned gym along with tales of its impending col;lstruction, the President explained that vague gym plans had been drawn up before he arrived at Union. \The College .is now three to four times as large as when the existing gym Famed by SUSAN DRAPER \Photography is a small voice, at best; but sometimes - just sometimes - onl,l pbotograph or a group of them · can lure our senses into awareness.\ -, Eugene Smjth Eugene Smith, a foremost photoj-ournalist, will appeat in S$. 0 16 on Thursday, January lSth, at 4:.30 p.m. The subject of his lecture and slide presentation will be his life's work and, more specifically, his recent photo-essay Minamata. This presentation is made possible 'by the Jaffee Lecture -- a .fund established in order to bring visiting artists to lecture at Unien. A former Life photographer, Eugene Srrtith's work is considered to have profound impact as social commentary. His art has wide-reaching social implications, best exemplified by his .photo\\(:ssay Minarnata. \My l10pe is that Minamata will prove a document· of love, hatred, and warning.\ he stated. Minamata depicts a small Japanese fishing· village in its struggle against· industrial pollution. The industrial waste of a large corporation (Chisso Inc.) was built and is now coeducational. The need is there,\ he commented. Still, no money has been raised {fund-raising recently has concentrated on Achilles Rink) and planning has nat progress~d beyond discussions about the exisitng needs . Concordy also asked the President which of the diverse Continued on Page 11 According to them and the NCAA regulations, he would be fully eligible as long as he had satisfactory grades and 24 class photographer • arrives · caused the mercury poisoning of fish in the local waters. If eaten, the contaminated fish can cause the debilitating \Minamata\ disease. Through his photography, Eugene Smith !!ensitively portrays the anger and h'Uman suffering which resulted frotn this tra2edv. Minamata has since won overwhelming critical acclaim. Yet this documentation was undertaken by Smith at considetable personal sacrifice. In a demonstration staged against Chisso, he Was - beaten and partiaUy blinded. But Eugene Smith was still not deterred from On the following Monday, the 15th, the full details were made known to all the appropriate ECAC officials in particular the Eligibility Committee. In so doing, Athletic Director Allison stated clearly that \Union made Continued on Page 10 at Union his intense involvement in the field of· photojournalism. He is currently teaching at the International Center for Photography in New York City, and will stage an exhibit of his photographs at the Union Gallery in late April. Smith's striking portrayal of the \Minamata\ disease has won him world-wide acclaim.

Page2 CONCORDIENSIS, Wednesday, Jan. 14, 1976 Union historian writes on colonial population ETS makes major changes SPECIAL TO CONCORDIENSIS Robert V. Wells. Associate Professor of History at Union College. with the aid of computer data-processing, has written a book r\(!cently published by Princeton Press. The work, titled The Population of Britisb Colonies Before 1776: A Survey of Census Data, examines major population characteristics in · 21 American colonies before 1776 (counting those in Canada and in the Caribbean): it includes size and growth of the population, race. age and sex. Prof. Wells used 120 pre- Revolution censuses in preparing the book. a task that would have been prohibitively time- consuming without the computer. He says: .. There are things a historian can do now he just wouldn't have tried before the advent of data-processing. •• For instance. he had one census listing 9092 households in Rhode Island. He examined household size and how it varied with head of household. He also looked at rural-urban differences, contrasting Newport and Providence with the rest of the colony. \It would have been impossible to do such work by hand.\ savs Prof. Wells. Prof. Wells did most of his research in the summer of 1971. when he spent 13 weeks in England. Most of the censuses he required are located in London's Public Record Offices. According to Prof. Wells, the American colonies had \one of the first population explosions that we can document.\ Their growth cexceeded that of most countries at the time. and continued for a much longer period - 150 years. The average family size was between six and seven people, twice the average size of present American families. The demography of individual colonies was an important factor in their willingness to sever ties with the British crown. Prof. Wells found. Those colonies with the highest proportion of black slaves to white freemen were the least willing to enter into revolution. primarily. Prof. Wells believes, because the whites in such colonies had most to fear from disruption of the social system, Campus Voice. The Campus Voice is a new informational source on the Union College . campus. m addition to Concordiensis. The editors are Judy Dein ('76), Rich Siegel ('77). Lee Rimsky ('76), Michael Kramer ('77). and Michael Ganz ('78). The Campus Voice will be printed every other week and will be an .insert in Concordiensis. The main objective of the Voice will be that of invetigative research, rather than descriptive reporting. The new publication will be similar to -a magazine; long-term articles will be run investigating social and administrative situations on camp\!-s. such, as Black/Wbite relations on campus, how the students view the faculty, and how the faculty view the students. In addition the Voice would like to use photo- journalism as a way of communicating feelings and attitudes. Meetings will be held every Monday in Strauss Lounge, at six thirty. The Campus Voice is still in the planning stage, and welcomes all contributions of written and photographic work. Alumni Post Open voting in the absence of the first representative. Interested parties with questions concerning the election or duties of Council representativc;s are urged to contact Assistant Alumni Director BHI Kuchta '72 in Lamont House (370-6168). Educational Testing Service , (ETS) reports several major changes in tWo national testing programs whose scores are used as part of the admissions process in many of the nation's .graduate scho0ls. Both programs. the newly-titled Graduate Manage- ment Admission• Test (GMAT) and the Graduate Record Examinations (GRE), together test more than 400,.000 prospective graduate students every year. ETS says the changes were made to help simplify the test- taking process by. making it more accommodating for student candidates. · Significant change in the GMAT is an.expanded admission ticket correction form tha.t allows the . candidate to verify; and correct if necessary, the ,accuracy of the information he or she provided ETS on the registration form. Walk-in registration. established during the 1974~75 academic vear, also will be honored. ~pace and material permitting. There are several n.ew additions to the GRE. For the first . time. a full-length. sample GRE aptitude test is available tq, give candidates an accurate view ·of the scope .of the test and the typ.e of questions it contains. The sample test is of the same length and format as the currently used forms of the aptitude test~ and contains. questions previously used in past tests. Art answer key is provided'. See the 1975-76 GRE Information Bulletin for more details. F . · 'r· · · h H. · 1nance , aug , t ·. • ere The GRE program also will continue to accept wa!k.,in registrations. if center spac-e and materials are available. and after all normally registered candidates nave been admitted. Both programs emphasize that walk-in registration for the GMAT and the GRE are being continued to provide a needed service to candidates who are unable to preregister because of drcumstances beyend their control. Rob!;rt Gilmore. a development engineer at General Electric and chairman of professional development for the Schenectadv General Electric Engineers and Scientists Association, has recruited five experts .in financial management to teach a new (non-credit) course, Personal Financial Management. \Many people's salaries level out at age 50 or 55. leaving their earning power prone to erosion by inflation,\ says Gilmore. ••But an individual can maintain his standard of living with supplementary income gained through careful · financial planning.\ Altho\lgh he built the course Jensen to Speak Mr. Robert Jensen, B.S.M.E. will speak about Engineering Drawings in Hale House Lower Lounge on Tuesday, January 20. at 7:30 p.m. Mr, Jensen will deal with the use of drawings to represent abstraction and facilitate understanding of systems operation. This talk is pertinent primarily to engineering majors, but with the rapid expansion of systems philosophy, those of you studying chemistry, computer . science. biology. economics, psychology. industrial administration, mathematics. and philosophy may also benefit. Mr, Jensen has been involved in the design of several large systems for General Electric and pur.: portedly is an authority on the subject. The format of the meeting will he a discourse, followed by refre.shments · of coffee and doughnuts with informal discussion and is sponsored by the student brahch of the I.E.E.E. around the interests of General Electric employees, Gilmore emphasized that anyone wishing to receive instruction in personal financial management is encotfraged to enter the course. ABRAHAM4 future Abraham & Straus has been in business for over a century and has always been recep- , - tive to innovation and \new thinking\. Per- haps this explains h9w A&S came to be the flugest division of the most profitable department ·store..-- group in the country, Federated Department Stores, Inc. To keep pace with our continuous growth, we are seeking college graduates with Asso- ciate, Bachelor, or Master's degrees in sub- jects ranging from Liberal Arts to Business Administration. Here at A&S you Will-find a broad spectrum of career opportunities in merchandising and management. For individuals with good scholastic records, energy-, ambition, and no fear of hard work, the rewards are rapid and many. .. .. • ,. c: \' Nominating petitions for the Class of 1976 representative to the Alumni Council are currently available in the offices of the Dean of Students, Student Activities. and Ah.imni Relations. Signatures from ten ·members of the Class of 1976 are required for nomination. Petitions should be delivered to the Alumni Office no later than Thursday, February 5. All graduating seniors are eligible: and candidates will be listed on the ballot in order of receipt of completed petitions. After February 5. ballots will be mailed to all seniors with the Voting deadline Friday, February 27. Ballots may be cast only in the Alumni Office {mail· ballots accepted). Election resu.lts will be announced in the Match issue(s) of Concordy. Cancer Clinics To get you off to a good start, we have the industry's finest- Executive Training Pro- gram that i.s supported by every member of our management team. Upon completion of this prqgram, the doors are open to an excit- ing career in merchandising, administration, or financial management. The elected represent:Hive will begin serving at the Spring meeting of the Alumni Council. The second highest vote getter will be named alternate . -- .... -- . representative, and as such invited to all Council meetings, ·.I··~~~;-., ........ ~.,..... .. --:_.:.;.,- .. A Control-Your-Smoking Clinic, sp-onsored by the S~henectady County Unit of the American Cancer Society, wiil be held at Union College fer students. faculty, staff, and their spouses beginning on Thursday, January 15th. The clinic will meet each Monday and Thursday afternoon from 2:00·4:00 p,m. · for four weeks.- or · a total of eight sessions. Graduation is planned for Monday-;- February 9th, Mrs. Natalie Yepsen will leao the group. The clinic offers concrete guidelines. suggestions. moral su.pport, ani;! informative materials on how to quit smoking. Physicians. ex-smekers, and other speakers will address. the clinic on various aspects of \kicking the h-abit.\ A registration fee of $8,00 will ·be charged. with $4.00 being returned to participants who attend all eight sessions. For full information about your career with A&S, see our· Campus Interviewer on TUES. JAN 20 or send resume to: I Director .of Executive Recruiting ABRAHAM & STRAUS '420 Fulton Street Brooklyn, New York 11201 An. Equal Opportunity Employt;Jr Mj F \ '- by A The student be, obli student heavily the gc ~of\Qmt campu~ Jack < howe' Govern Brian Preside numero problen changes The Student summa1 elabora. f ott h:C Concor' is not needed acquire All rea the fol ptesentc Meetin1 around exact d soon a Student meetin~ in Ps) Student Wednes Fox I afford t to voice or simp govern11 affect a life on c Brief an Parti (offe must be gi there ihe ·one i two, Com The i one t' progt Flore tecre1 Thl of eac make Ail ptogr Ma office AUJ Se~ Sep Flore1 Nol Ret detail! Terrn

Pagel CONCORD!ENS!S, Wednesday, Jan. 14, 1976 ;·: : . . . ,\ . ' ·. . .·. ' . . . .· ; ' . . .. ' :· . ' ·. . ' ·:· ·., . ' . : •, . . . . ' : . ' . - ' - . . ' . ' ' . ' . ·: . - ' . Union historian writes on colonial population ETS makes major changes SPECIAL TO CONCORDIENSIS impossible to do such work by hand.\ says Prof. Wells. Prof. Wells did most of his research in the summer of 1971. when he spent 13 weeks in England. Most of the censuses he required are located in London's Public Record Offices. Educational Testing Service (ETS) reports several major changes in two t:~ational testing programs whose scores are Hsed as part of the admissions process in many of the nation's graduate schools. Both programs. the newly-titled Graduate Manage- ment Admission Test (GMAT) and the Graduate Record Examinations (GR E). together test more than 400,000 prospective graduate students every year. ETS says the changes were made to help simplify the test- taking process by making it more accommodatiFlg for student randidates. . SigHificant change in the G MAT is an expanded admission ticket correction form that allows the candidate to verify, and correct if necessary. the accuracy of the information he or she provided ETS on the registration form. Walk-in registration. established during the 1974-75 academic year. also will be honored. space and material permitting. There are severa I new additions to the GR E. For tlrle first time, a full-length sarnple GRE aptitude test is available to, give candidates an accurate view of the scope of the test and the type of questions it coF!tains. The sample test is- of the same length and format as the currently used forms of the aptitude test. and contains qHestions previously used in past tests. An answer key is provided. See the 1975-7& GRE Information Bul'letin for more details. Robert V. Wells. Associate Professor of History at Union College, with the aid of computer data-processing. has written a book recently published by Princeton Press. The work. titled The Population of British Colonies Before 1776: A Survey of Census Data, examines major population characteristics in -21 American colonies before 1776 (counting those in Canada and in the Caribbean): it includes size and growth of the population. race. age and sex. Prof. Wells used 120 pre- Revolution censuses in preparing the book. a task that would have According to Prof. Wells. the American colonies had \one of the first population explosions that we can document.\ Their growth •exceeded that of most countries at the time. and continued for a much longer period ~ 150 years. The average family size was between six and seven people. twice the average size of present American families. Finance 'faught Here The GRE program also will continue to accept walk-in registrations, if center space and materials are available. and after all normally registered candidates have been admitted. Both programs emphasize that walk-in registration for the GMAT and the GRE are being continued to provide a needed service to candidates who are unable to preregister because of circumstances beyond their ront rol. been prohibitively time- consuming without the computer. He says: \There are thing~ a hiqorian can do now he just wouldn't have tried before the advent of data-processing.\ For instance. he had one census listing 9092 households in Rhode Island. He examined household size and how it varied with head of household. He also looked at rural-urban differences. contrasting ~ewport and Providence w11h the rest of the colony. \It would have been The demography of individual colonies was an important factor in their willingness to sever ties with the British crown. Prof. Wells found. Those colonies with the highest proportion of black slaves to white freemen were the least willing to enter into revolution. primarily. Prof. Wells believes. because the whites in such colonies had most to fear from disruption of the social system. Campus Voice The Campus Voice is a new informational source on the Union College campus. in addition to Concordiensis. The editors are Judy Dein ('76). Rich Siegel ('77). Lee Rimsky ('76). Michael Kramer ('77). and Michael Ganz ('78). The Campus Voice will he printed every other week and will be an insert in Concordiensis. The main objective of the Voice will he that of invetigative research. rather than descriptive reporting. The new publication will be similar to a magazine: long-term articles will be run investigating social and administrative situations on campus. such as Black/White relations on campus. how the students view the faculty. and how the facultv view the students. In addit-ion the Voice would like to use photo- journalism as a wav of communicating feelings· and attitudes. Meetings will he held every Monday in Strauss Lounge. at six thirty. The Campus Voice is still in the planning stage. and welcomes all contributions of written and photographic work. Alumni Post Open ;\laminating petitiOns for the Class of 1976 representative to the Alumni Council are currently available in the offices of the Dean of Students. Student Activities. and Alumni Relations. Signatures from ten members of the Class of 1976 are required for nomination. Petitions should be delivered to the Alumni Office no later than Thursday, February 5. All graduating voting in the absence of the first representative. Interested parties with que~tions concerning the election or duties of Council representatives are urged to contact Assistant Alumni Director Bill Kuchta '72 m Lamont House (370-6168). Robert Gilmore. a development engineer at General Electric and chairman of professional development for the Schenectady General Electric Engineers and Scientists Association. has recruited five experts in financial management to teach a new (non-credit) course. Personal Financial Management. \Man~: people's salaries level out at age 50 or 55. leaving their earning power prone to erosion bv inflation.\ savs Gilmore. \But an individual can maintain his standard of living with supplementary income gained through careful · financial planning.\ Although he built the course Jensen to Speak Mr. Robert Jensen. B.S.M .E. will speak about Engineering Drawings in Hale House Lower Lounge on Tuesdav. Januarv 20. at 7:30p.m. Mr. J~nsen wit( deal with the use of drawings to represent abstraction and facilitate understanding of systems operation. This talk is pertinent primarily to engineering majors. hut with the rapid expansion of systems philosophy. those of you studying chemistry. computer science. biology. economics, psycho logy. indus trial administration, mathematics. and philosophy may also benefit. Mr. Jensen has been involved in the design of several large systems for General Electric and pur; portedly is an authority on the subject. The format of the meeting will be a discourse. followed by refreshments of coffee and doughnuts with informal discussion and is sponsored by the student branch of the I.E.E.E. o;eniors are eligible: and candidates will be listed on the ballot in order of rereipt of completed petitions. After February 5. ballots will be mailed to all seniors with the voting deadline Friday. February 27. Ballots may he cast only in the Alumni Office (mail ballots accepted). Election results will be announced in the March issue( s) of Concordy. Cancer Clinics The elected repre'ientative will begin serving at the Spring meeting of the Alumni Council. The second highest vote getter will he named alternate representative. and as such invited to all Council meetings. A Control-Your-Smoking Clinic. -;pomored by the Schenectadv Countv Unit of the American Cancer S~cietv. will be held at Union Co liege for students. faculty. staff. and their spouse-; beginning on Thursday. Januarv 15th. The clinic will meet each Monday and Thursday afternoon from 2:00-4:00 p.m. for four weeks. or a total of eight <>es~ions. Graduation is planned for Monday: February 9th. Mrs. Natalie Yepsen will lead the group. The clinic offers concrete guidelines. suggestions. moral support. and informative materials on how to quit <;moking. Physicians. ex-smokers. and other speakers will address the clinic on various aspects of \kicking the hahit.\ A registration fee of $R.OO will he charged. with $4.00 being returned to participants who at tend all eight sessions. around the interests of General Electric employees, Gilmore emphasi7ed that anyone wishing to receive instruction in personal financial management 1s encoe!'raged to enter the course. ABRAHAM4 fulure Abraham & Straus has been in business for over a century and has always been recep- tive to innovation and \new thinking\. Per- haps this explains how A&S came to be the largest division of the most profitable dapartment store group in the country. Federated Department Stores, Inc. To keep pace with our continuous growth, we are seeking college graduates with Asso- ciate, Bachelor, or Master's degrees in sub- jects ranging from Liberal Arts to Business Administration. Here at A&S you will find a broad spectrum of career opportunities in merchandising and management. For individuals with good scholastic records, energy, ambition, and no fear of hard work, the rewards are rapid and many. To get you off to a good start, we have the industry's finest Executive Training Pro- gram that is supported by every member of our management team. Upon completion of this program, the doors are open to an excit- ing career in merchandising, administration, or financial management. For full information about your career with A&S, see our Campus Interviewer on TUES. JAN 20 or send resume to: Director of Executive Recruiting ABRAHAM & STRAUS '420 Fulton Street Brooklyn, New York 11201 An Equal Opportunity Employer Mj F \' ... • ,. c \' A ' 1 I ·I < J '1 ~ ~ \ ~ 11 a l; ~~~ \) \' 4 ~ :.. by) The studen be, ob studen heavil~ the g comm campu lack howe Goven Brian Presid1 numer, proble change The Stude11 stunmc: elabon forth Conco1 is no needed acquin All re: the fc presen Meetir aroun< exact soon , Studen meetin in Ps Stud en Wedne Fox afford to voic or sim1 govern affect : life on Brief a1 Par (of~ mw be f ther The one two Con The one pro~ Flor recn Tl of e! mak AI prog M offio At Se Se Flon Nc Re detai Terrr

\ •. it• ' ~ ' . . . . ~'; ~ ~ •: i ~ . ' ·~ ~· ' .( . . CONCOR.DIENSJ$; Wet.b:,esday,· Jan. /4, 1976 Pagei -~·· --------------~----- . ~~- :' ·, . . ·;. ·Restructuring. of StUde.nt GOvernment explained by A'UDREY ROTHS'CHIL:O to hea·r all comments or community participation, activity questions. They can be reached at outside of the traditional The majority of Union Ce!Jege 370-6418 (Matt}. and .374-1475 classroom setting. These two students ha·ve been, and rema10 to (Br.ian). credits shall be ·pass-fail. be, oblivious to the activities of its Beginning in the Fall Term, the A ·board of nine, four students, student .government. Fault lies Student Forum met With Saga three faculty, and two heavily with the lack of coverage and presented them With student administrators, shall award the the government received from grievances which were obtained first credit, if deserved, at the end conlritunication ~ources on from students in the West College of sophomore year, the 'second campus and the governmenfs Dining Room. Inanswf:r to these credit at the ~nd of junior year, lack of activity. This year, ·complaints, Saga has set up a new leaving the senior year as time to however, the Student system; sinc;e this has. yet to be make up on credits. The board Government; with its President fully worked out, an evalutaion af wil1 be nominated by the Brian T-ucker, a·nd its Vice• · it's su~;cess remains in the future. Educational Policy Committee President Matt Brief, has matte Saga has installed a sandwich line and ,be subject to the approval of numerous attempts to tackle at Junchtime and has suggested the Senate. problem areas and initiate the introduction of transfer meal At the end of each academic changes ip school Jmlicy. tiekets for visitors. The third term, each student shaU meet with The plans proposed by the , change suggests that steak he his faculty advisor to f.ill a non- Student Government will _ })e ·served every Wednesday without academic transcript which shall summarized here, and further ·- an increas.e in cqst. The new plan record all of the sttrdenfs extra- elaboration will be found in intends to prove to be cheaper curricular activities. at the end of fo.tth~o,ming . is.sues of and 'easier; nevertheless., the his or her sophomore and junior Concorditlnsis. Student feedback Housing Committee is reviewing years, these non-academic is not only appreciate(~ but proposals made by othe.r food transcripts shall be turned over to needed if the 80 vemmelit is to setv.ices. Presently, the ARA · the Board. These non-academic· acquire .. a sense of the stti,dents.\ Food Service is being eva;luated, transcripts shall thereafter be and if they or any other companf attached to academic transcripts : i$. a,pproved of, Saga will he and be sent to grad_uate schaols, replaced as of September of next businesses; etc. · year,. Criteria for Community The Forum has also called in Participation will be designated Schaffer Library to bring up. the by a committee of Alb·College · q~estions of an electronic Senators, appointed by the -.anreiUance system, new books, Chairman of the Senate. They and a possible lounge with shall report back to the Senate no · vending machines. Dr. !olin, more than six weeks after the· bead of the library, has been passage of this resolution. convinced of these ne-cessities and The Committee Participation 41 asldng the Planning and plan W.ill be on the dockets at the Priorities Committee for funds. Town Meeting and student· Last year, the Calendar feedback on the issue is desired. Committee, made up of 1'2 Student support can give students, .four_ fac~lty }ilembers,. Jnnovativ~ pr.opesals the strength . ~Dean, Smith; Deb'b1~ Kdgus, and , to pass thtough the Student · Mrs. Kerchner, was assigned by Senate. · the Student Senate to propose a · . The Student Government has new calen~ar change. Students on ~ncountetUI ~ proiJieftl_l this dte Committee strongly supported year with what it considers an the proposal of a 4-3-2 J)lan which unworkable formula for fundina :.vent _before the Senate, where it r met tts defeat. Union's faculty holds a majority vote in tile Senate and they- had complained. that the new .plan would requa\\\!l!~t~ml an increased work load for t~ The Forum has refused to --~\\\\\\\\\\\\' the fight for a change in schedule Union has now. Stlldt•: views, it is hoped, will be gatneJ:el' at the Town M-eeting. A Community rti()ip:ttic•' proposal will come . before till Senate as a new plan someti1111 this term. Matt · Brief and R.a Thau ..:.have drawn the guidelina which state~ Starting with the class of 1979 the requirements for ar J 'U~dergraduate program will ~ . · ra1sed to 38 cred1ts. The extra two credits shall be earned via can hear are innumerable, leaving the stp.dent the chance to speak PP on wbat he considers · an injustice or wrong-doing. ' Finally, the Forum is concerning itself with the problem of the status of the arts. A liberal arts college cannot justifiably consider itself as such when it lacks the facilities and courses for a good arts department. Students at Union seem to .. float\ into the department, but never stay there. It is hoped that the creation of ~ strong Arts department would bring to our school a more diversified student body. An arts symposium, sponsored by the Forpm, will be held at Union in the hopes of rarsmg the consciousness -of the students as to the importance of an Arts department on a liberal arts college campus. In this new year, the student government is trying to put forth proposals .that will serve the students n<iw and in :the\ fixture. Their efforts are continually hindered by a new governmental structure which creates complexities tltat need to be worked out. Our school budget operates on a three year cycle which makes funding of committees by the school more difficult. Consequently, the burden falls on the student government to support groups that perhaps should be getting money directly from the school. The students have a new gov.emment with the willingness and creativity to make serious changes on behalf of the student body. The government no one ever knew about is finally becoming active; now the student body must do the same. Hale House will increase the hours of dinner service. New dinner hour is (Monday- Friday) 4:45 p.m. to 6:15 p.m. In addition, an expansion of the dinner menu is planned. A batch of discounted 520.00 Hale House tickets were printed in error by our printer at the end of last term. The·tickets were Sl.OO short of the value they should have . had. Unfortunately 200 of these were sold before the mistake was discovered. A list of the names and numbers who were shorted will be posted in the serving area. These people may pick up a $2.00 coupon from the cashier with our apologies. All reactions and. .spggestions to the following issues should be presented at Union's Town Meeting, which will be held around February I, 1976. The exact date will be publicized as soon as it becomes final. The Student Senate·is holding its first meeting on thursday at 4:30 p.m. in Psychology 213, and the Student Forum will meet on Wednesday, Jan. 14, 8:00 p . .m. in Fox Lounge. Both meetingS\ a,fford the student 'an opportunity to voice his/her personal opinions or simply to act as a spectator of governmental meetings which will affeCt all aspects of the student's life on campps. ln addition, Matt Brief and Bri3n Tucke~ are willing student activities. In order to . _ reach a solution, the Tax_:;;:;===~==:;:;:======-============~~ P••-••••••••••••••••••••• ... C6mmittee has proposed a system Fall Term in Florence 1976 lUGmiLITY Participants will nave completed a course in Elementary Italian (offered _in the Spring. Term of ~976) or its ~quivalent. and they must be m good standmg academiCally and socially. Preference will be given to Seniors, Juniors. and SophotnQres in that order in case there are more qualified applicants than can be accommodated. PROGRAM OF ST·uDY The thtee-course package consists of an Italian language course, one in Renaissance Italy and one in Contemporaey Italy. The latter two courses will be given primarily in English and will count as Comp. Ed. options in Center I. EXPENSES The inclusive fee of $.1650 plus air fare (approximately the cost of one term in residence on campusfcovers administrative costs of the program. room and board in private homes, academic expenses in Florence and several field trips. H does not cover ,personal and recreational expenses. The purchase of an airplane ticket is the individual responsibility of each student. The College offers its services, however, in helping make the most advantageous flight arrangements. All scholarships (including N.Y.S.. Regents) apply to the program. 'f~NTATIVE-CALENI)A:R. March 5- office. non-refundable deposit of $l00.at College Business August l- $1550 balance offee. September l8- Flight to Rome September 20 ~ Beginning of ten-week academic program in Florence, • November 26 '\\\\'End of academic program. R.~turn flight date up to individual participant. For .further details and application forms see Professor Klemm. Director of Term Abroad Prog~ams (Humanities Building); · · of criteria that would determine · Which activities shou1d be supported by the school and not student tax money. Perhaps certain activities which represent ' the school, such as the Mountebanks and· the choir, should not receive funds solely fmm the students' pockets. Prc;;sently, the 'Planning and Priorities Committee and the. Forum are drawing up the criteria · which; if accepted by the en~ire Planning and Priorities' Committee, will mean joint funding of certain activities by the Tax Committee and the Planning·· and Priorities Committee. If such a sharing of costs is not voted, there is a strong possibility that · there will be an increase in · student J;axes. Concrete evidence that the Student Government is increasing its activities on behalf of the student body can be seen in the creation of the Conduct · Ombudsman Committee, which was created under the Student Life Committee. Cases are brought to the Committee trying · fellow students (such as inefficient R.A.'s), faculty (unfair treatment of an individual), .and the adtninistrat.ion (unfair fines). The .. ----••-•••••••••••••-•111 scope of cases that the Committee

A 1 I ·i ( '\ ~ ~ ,. ·-·-·---·---- CONCORDIENSIS. Wednesday, Jan. 14, 1976 Page3 Restructuring of Student Government explained by AUDREY ROTHSCHILD The majority .of Union College students have beeR, and remam to be, oblivious to the activities of its student government. Fault lies heavily with the lack of coverage the government received from communication sources on campus and the government's lack of activity. This year, however, the Student Government, with its President Brian T1:1cker, and its Vice- President Matt Brief, has made numerous attempts to tackle problem areas and initiate changes in school policy. The plans proposed by the Student Government wiH be summarized here, and fu,rther elaboration will be found in forthcoming issues of Concordiensis. Student feedback is not only appreciated but needed if the government is to acquire\a sense of the students.\ .._ll¥t.aTRCtttmn ............... All reactions and suggestions to the following issues should be presented at Union's Town Meeting, which will be held around February I, I 976. The exact date will be publicized as soon as it becomes final. The Student Senate is holding its first meeting on Thursday at 4:30p.m. in Psychology 213, and the Student Forum will meet on Wednesday, Jan. 14, 8:00 p.m. in Fox Lounge. Both meetings afford the student an opportunity to voice his/her personal opinions or simply to act as a spectator of governmental meetings which will affect all aspects of the student's life on campus. In addition, Matt Brief and Brian Tucker are willing to hear all comments or questions. They can be reached at 370-6478 (Matt) and 374-1475 (Brian). Beginning in the Fall Term, the Student Forum met with Saga and presented them with student grievances which were obtained from students in the West Cof.lege Dining Room. In answer to these complaints, Saga has set up a new system; since this has yet to be fully worked out, an evalutaion of its success remains in the future. Saga has installed a sandwich line at lunchtime and has suggested the introduction of transfer meal tickets for visitors. The third change suggests that steak be served every Wednesday without an increase in cost. The new plan intends to prove to be cheaper and easier, nevertheless, the Housing Committee is reviewing proposals made by other food services. Presently, the ARA Food Service is being evaJuated, and if they or any other company is approved of, Saga will be replaced as of September of next year. The Forum has also called in Schaffer Library to bring up the questions of an electronic surveillance system, new books, and a possible lounge with vending machines. Dr. Tolin, head of the library, has been convinced of these necessities and is asking the Planning and Priorities Committee for funds. community participation, activity outside of the traditional classroom setting. These two credits shall be pass-fail. A board of nine, four students, three faculty, and two administrators, shall award the first credit, if deserved, at the end of sophomore year, the second credit at the end of junior year, leaving the senior year as time to make up on credits. The board will be nominated by t/;Je EducatioAal Policy Committee and be subject to the approval of the Senate. At the end of each academic term, each student shall meet with his faculty advisor to fill a non- academic transcript which shall record all of the student's extra- curricular activities. at the end of his or her sophomore and junior years, these non-academic transcripts shall be turned over to the Board. These non-academic transcripts shall thereafter be attached to academic transcripts and be sent to graduate schools, businesses, etc. Criteria for Community Participation wiJ,I be designated by a committee of All-College Senators, appointed by the Chairman of the Senate. They shall report back to the Senate no more than six weeks after the passage of this resolution. The Committee Participation plan will be on the dockets at the Town Meeting and student feedback on the issue is desired. Student support can give innovative proposals the strength to pass through the Student Senate. The Student Government has encountered serioH problem_s this year with what it considers an unworkable formula for fundina Last year, the Calendar Committee, made up of 12 students, four faculty members, Dean Smith, Debbie Kilgus, and Mrs. Kerchner, was assigned by the Student Senate to propose a new calendar change. Students on the Committee strongly supported the proposal of a 4-3-2 plan which went before the Senate, where it met its defeat. Union's faculty holds a majority vote in the Senate and they had complained that the new plan would requie ~, __ an increased work load for them. The Forum has refused to give .... ~~· the fight for a change in the 3~3-l'~--~---­ schedule Union has now. :Stlldlllllll views, it is hoped, will be gathel'ell at the Town Meeting. A Community ParticipatiOII proposal will come before the Senate as a new plan sometimr this term. Matt Brief and R.a Thau have drawn the guidelinet which state: Starting with the class of I 979 the requirements for ar undergraduate program wm ., 1 raised to 38 credits. The extra two credits shall be earned via V.P. MllitiiW student activities. In order to , can hear are innumerable, leaving the student the chance to speak up on what he considers an injustice or wrong-doing. Finally, the Forum is concerning itself with the problem of the status of the arts. A liberal arts college cannot justifiably consider itself as such when it lacks the facilities and courses for a good arts department. Students at Union seem to \float\ into the department, but never stay there. It is hoped that the creation of a strong Arts department would bring to our school a more diversified st1:1dent body. An arts symposium, sponsored by the Forum, will be held at Union in the hopes of ra1smg the consciousness of the students as to the importance of an Arts department on a liberal arts college campus. In this new year, the student government is trying to put forth proposa,ls ·that will serve the students now and in the future. Their efforts are continually hindered by a new governmental structure which creates complexities that need to be worked out. Our school budget operates on a three year cycle which makes funding of committees by the school more difficult. Conseljuently, the burden falls on the student government to support groups that perhaps should be getting money directly from the school. The students have a new government with the willingness and creativity to make serious changes on behalf of the student body. The government no one ever knew about is finally becoming active; now the student body must do the same. Hale House will increase the hours of dinner service. New dinner hour is (Monday- Friday) 4:45 p.m. to 6:15 p.m. In addition, an expansion of the dinner menu is planned. A batch of discounted $20.00 Hale House tickets were printed in error by our printer at the end of last term. The tickets were $2.00 short of the value they should have had. Unfortunately 200 of these were sold before the mistake was discovered. A list of the names and numbers who were shorted will be posted in the serving area. These people may pick up a $2.00 coupon from the cashier with our apologies. reach a solution, the Tax ..;.:=::===~==~;:::==================U Committee has proposed a system Fall Term in Florence 1976 ELIGmiLITY Participants will have completed a course in Elementarv Italian (offered in the Spring Term of 1976) or its equivalent. and they must be in good standing academically and socially. Preference will be given to Seniors. Juniors. and SophomQres in that order in case there are more qualified applicants than can be accommodated. PROGRAM OF STliDY The three-course package consists of an Italian language course, one in Renaissance Italy and one in Contemporary Italy. The latter two courses will be given primarily in English and will count as Comp. Ed. options in .Center I. EXPENSES The inclusive fee of $1650 plus air fare (approximately the cost of one term in residence on campus) covers administrative costs of the program. room and board in private homes, academic expenses in Florence and several field trips. It does not cover personal and recreational expenses. The purchase of an airplane ticket is the individual responsibility of each student. The College offers its services, however, in helping make the most advantageous flight arrangements. All scholarships (including N.Y.S. Regents) apply to the program. TENTATIVE CALENDAR March 5- office. non-refundable deposit of $100'at College Business August I -$I 550 balance of fee. September 18- Flight to Rome September 20 - Beginning of ten-week academic program in Florence. . November 26 - End of academic program. Return flight date up to individual participant. For further details and application forms see Professor Klemm. Director of Term Abroad Programs (Humanities Building). of criteria that would determine which actiVIties should be supported by the school and not student tax money. Perhaps certain activities which represent the school, such as the Mountebanks and the choir, should not receive funds solely from the students' pockets. Presently, the Planning and Priorities Committee and the Forum are drawing up the criteria · which, if accepted by the entire Planning and Priorities · Committee, will mean joint funding of certain activities by the Tax Committee and the Planning · and Priorities Committee. If such a sharing of costs is not voted, there is a strong possibility that there will be an increase in student taxes. Concrete evidence that the Student Government is increasing its activities on behalf of the student body can be seen in the creation of the Conduct Ombudsman Committee, which was created under the Student Life Committee. Cases are brought to the Committee trying _fellow students (such as inefficient R.A.'s), faculty (unfair treatment of an individual), and the administration (unfair fines). The scope of cases that the Committee

-·$' Page4 f . CON CO RD/ENSI~~. W~dnesd.::a~y.~J=a:n:·:...:l:..:4:_> :;./9:..:.·~;.6' _____ ...::,. _ _,....._~----:------.--...- arts l ,. . ···. Ca.lling All Mounties . ' ~ \ . ' .. .. ~ ' ~ ll ~· • • As a preview to the theatrical activities for Winter Term, the Mountebanks have planned a general meeting for aU interest~d students. This get-together wdl take place on Monday, January 19 at 8:00 p.m. in the Nott Memorial. Most students have been in the theatre countless times without . by· WENDY SOLOVAY ever having seen the costume shop, the tech room, or any offhe shops within the Nott. There are · many exciting things taking place over there that we'd like to share with you; and perhaps in doing so, evoke some support from the Union College community. In addition to the tour of the various sh~ps, the Mountebanks would' ,like everyone to meet Union's new .W Eugene Smith will speak _at Union. costumer, Susanne Frisch, who will be conducting cos~ume workshops and participating very actively in the costuming for the year's big production of The Tentpest. The theatre program for Winter · Term is already in fuU swing .. · Satry Sinitlt has been working 'with the cast and crews of The r. em pest since Ja.nua.ry 2. <Dpening February 27,. The Tempest will ruh from F_ebruary 27 through February 29 and then ~&gain from March J thrQUgh March 6. This play might very well prove to be the best yet at . Union College. Besides an extremely talented directot, cast, and crew, Charles Steckler has designed a truly incredible set .. All ' students are strongly urged to pavticipate to whatevet degree :P<>ssible. The Director's Lab ' Theatre tDL T) provides an additional rehearsal and performance space .for students 'wishifng an unrestricted arena. f'nis' past Monday and Tuesday, January 12 and 13, a ~me-act play directed by student, Blaire Reischer, was .performed there. Finally; the Cabaret still hoids its two 'Fhursday night shows weekly. These performances iru:Iude all types of routines and hopefully will expand even more wllen new talent is discovered. · Plans are also ·being finalized for a Cabaret musical. .Fires ticks: A ·Woman's Journey Join us at our general meeting on Sunday at 8:00, and take note of all the alluring activities the Mountebanks' have coordinated fO.r you this term. FIRESUCI{S: A Journey into school dance, the job market, the Self-Respect is a unique theatrical family, sexuality, aloneness, and work collectively created by a relatiorisbips witlt other women. company of worren actors ... With balanced sensitivity, with FIRESTJCKS explores. the humor, and a common sense ?f . expedence of these five women univer;>ality\ _((Boston Globe), growing up in Ameriqa and t~ey. emerge With a new sense of sttugglirig thi:ough .the im!l;ges of dt~n~ty_.and power. FlRES!LCKS womanhood that surround them. will be presented. at Umon on · \Laced with humor and Su!lday, Jan-~~ary 18., at 8 p.m.,in, poignance\ (Boston Herald Ol(j. Cqapel. Tickets. must be American), the shew eVolves as reserved in_ . ~dv~Iic~ in. the each wohlan confronts the high Stud~l_lt J\~;:ti.Y•!tes 9fftce_,aJ,}70- . 6118. . .. . .. •,y. <.\ c. J!>. ~ ... ·. r -·~ . Kate Millett· discusses feminine Toles by JACK PITNEY Susan Brownmiller has written that \rape is a process by which all men keep all women in a state of fear.\ no you buy that? • Yeah, that's very true. You could say lynch is a process by which all whites keep all blacks in fear. And it's true, even though you might swear up and down that you'd never take part in a lynch or rape someone or whatever ... Women always have to be afraid. You have to be afraid of the guy giving you a ride when your car breaks down ... In other words, you're the group of persons who are, through this social setting, put into a position of physical terror. all the time. Is any sexual. rol~ differentiation desirable? No, I really can't see that any of it is really desirable. ART Symposium Presents \The Agony and the Ecstasy \ January 19 8 & 10, SS016 FREE So you don't think that the role of father ought to be any different from the role of motlier. No, I don't think so. I think tile ways that fathers have acted differently have been awful ways. It's left to the father to beat the child. What an awful thing to put upon a man. I think the way we've divided it up - mothers be~ng nice and fathers being nasty - it's all dreadful and really, really poisoned the character of parenthood, too. Do you think that women wbo (:boose .tr~ditionlll roles ~re accomplices to the system of male domination? Well, ·I don't know that th~y have any choice. A, we're all brainwashed beautifully, and B, ne~essity forces ever so many women into these situations. lf you think of women who've gone ont of their way to be accomplices, like Phyllis Schafly, it turns out that she's latgely an accomplice of big business concerns. lVhat do you do about tfte average housewife? How do you get her to change her role? 'We really have to change the we>rld, don't we? We're not interested in offering her factory jobs and more lousy typing and filing. The thing is broadening · people's options and opportunities. Nobody in the w~men\s movement is interested in seizing women and dragging theni from their happy homes and so on and so forth. But let's face it: their happy homes can be awful little cages at times. Do the news media portray w1nnen fairly? ' . . They're not as contemptuous of the women's movement as they used to be. They were very smug and nasty and male-chauvinistic. There have been changes because we•ve brought certain changes abe>ut. We've sued, through the FCC,. a lot t>f the big stations ab()ttt the way they portray wor;nen or the very fact that they don't even have them on the air very m11ch. If you count the voices, it's astonishing how rarely women appear on television in any capacity. ~ill quotas in hiring solve the problem? We haven't asked for quotas. We have asked for an end to discrimination in hiring. And in itself should do the job. So quotas ;per se are Iiot at all necessary. ~811111111-Brllll .li( .. Tht> G..-t>atest Eating & Orinking Public Ho~se;- Evt.'r! 11! ILLTBB. · 1 • BIBB, \VIIB OR illiOiu YOUCDDBID WITBDIB.BB ' Quench your thirsr wirh chilled pitchers of beer, wine, sangria or hin·t. l,..t•r. Have as much as you like. ALL TBI SALAD IOUCAIIMAD Our huge Salad Bar prov.ides the greens and the dressings for ),'9~ f9 ('re~te your own ntasterpiece. PLII A BO.ILISS SIBLOI. STIAK ·· a·· ·t.95 All .5.95 -·- lit / . ·: ' J~ni'?r · for just Regular J ' . -: · tJ ~ Sulom SirlQill · \ . AN-D THAT•s BOT ALL Old .. Fashioned Beefsteak Barbecued Chicken Half-Pound Steakburger on a Seeded Bun AD Till IODBIII't1 CIOICB 5.95 4.95 3.95 Lobster Tails Steak & Lobster Tail Filet Mignon Dance to liv<' musk or sit back and listen to the good sounds in our lounge. A C!>mpl<'te selection of STRONGER SPIRITS is available for those who choose to imbibdr neat, or in·co~kt-·.iils or hiJ!:hhalls. WolfRoad Park Colonie 458-7845 1 0 s J p L c Sl a Y• \' tl cl p 0 . . n1 tt it oJ SJ di h~ tb 81 o1 Jl P< th R Tl de S1 sli of ta. M an Rl tal Y< m; wi thl ye: ·the eff to Cr SOl alt du ses pn RtJ the A list em Alt it ( Ka fro cor cor Do To1 the ym Do ha\ 4 Dy cou bes or \ lyri

e i 1 f ' ' f '. • l.IIJ CONCORDIENSIS, Wednesday, Jan. 14, IY76 Page5 Rt!cord_s~· 1975's Ten Best Albums 1975 was the year of (circle one) Elton John, Bruce Springsteen, Neil Young, Jefferson Starship, Bob Oylan, Patti Smith, The Roiling Stones, Lin<la Ronstadt, Frank Zappa, Other, None. That's one of those safe questions; there's no wrong answer, and no matter how much you believe ifs right, sameone will disagree with you. The 'list that follows is my personal choice. The order they've been put in is to be taken with a grain of salt, though; I'm not sure the number 3 album ,is any better than the number 5 disc, although it is much better than the resident of the ninth slot. . I. Born To Run ,.... Bruce Springsteen. 1 really wanted to dislike this one. I detest media hype, especially when it reaches the level it did with Springsteen. But I saw him here, l heard one of his Bottom Line concerts, and I listened to tlie album. The major point that keeps me from calling this the best album since Abbey Road is that it is overproduced. The glossy Phil Spectorish sound doesn't fit in with the grittiness of Springsteen's music. · Still, ·the slickness cannot deny the power of the tunes. Super album, super talent, awful production. Let Mike Appel say in promotion, and Jon Landau stay safely in his Rolling Stone column. Leave the talent alone in the studio. 2. Tonighfs The Night - Neil Young. the better of two masterpieces . Young came 'out with this year,; 1 Ton~ght is easily the least a~;cessible album of the year. It is obvj,ous that making ·the album was a tremendous effort for Young. It is a reaction to the deaths. of two members of Crazy Horse, his tland. Young sounds drugged with shock on the album, and~ in fact, was drunk by DAN ROSENBAUM cheerful cast of the music. There modified dogs, and questioning is a. sense of loss pervading the popular UFO theories, for album, but it is loss mixed with example), but doesn't let them get determination to keep going. One in the way of his music. The reviewer de3cribed )JI()od .as music is superb. If you say you being the musiC of Dylan's don't like Zappa because of his psychic scar tiss1.1e. I quite agree. wierdness, this one is perfect. 5. Horses- Patti Smith. Wow! 7. Zuma - Neil Young. The ·I can't remem'ber any other new other Young masterpiece, Zuma artist hitting with the impact ·of is probably as .cheerful as Neil Patti Smith. This LP grabs your Young is going to get. It is an. attention with the very first line, album of lost loves, but the 11nd doesn't let go. Smith has a Young is good enough at his ·craft compelling, Springsteen-like to give us different images all the . voice, which is just perfect for the way through. It would seem that three-Chord rock her band backs the death of Danny Whitten (of her up with. There ate no frills in Crazy Horse) hit him harder than this music,. jus~ straight·ahead his inability to find his ideal hard tpck. Of special interest is woman. For the freaks, CSNY her covering of Van Morrison's appears' here also,. but they really \Gloria.\ aren't needed. Crazy Horse stands 6. One Size Fits AU - Frank up just fine alone. Zappa. Sometimes you just can~t Zurna would be magnificent win. For years, Zappa has been were .it Neil Young's only release regarded as an immensely of the year, but in light of talented cult figure, the only song Tonight's the Night, it is all the ever to reach any widespread more amazing. .popularity being ••oyna-Moe 8. Red Octopus - Jefferson Humm,\ which is not exactly Top Starship. Balin is back, and the 40 material. Now Jhat he has put music shows it. Rolling Stone, out an excellent disc, full of always a bard master to please, technically ·brilliant instrument attacked this one on the grounds and production work, he is that it was more like a revue than knocked for .selling out. Such a coherent album. There's some criticism is garbage, to put it lrl!th there, but the music is fine, nicely. Zappa .still dea:ls with odd nonetheless. Octopus is all the subjects (love songs to sofas and c t' d p · ·10 on mue on age Film: 'Hustle'' Hits Too Hard by JACK PITNEY during most of the recording Hustle is concerned with some sessi9ns. But just as over- , rather seamy .goings-on in Los production could· not kill Born To · Angeles. A girl has died from an Run, being drunk fails to mask overdose of uppers. An autopsy the intensity of the personal loss. reveals that she had been A warning: the. album is difficult indulging in kinky sexual activity listening, but well worth the shortly before her death. Her effort. father (Ben Johnson) thinks she 3. Katy Lied - Steely Dan. was murdered by a pervert, or Almost forgotten in the list, since perverts unknown, so a pair of it came out very early in the year, world-weary detecti~es (Bu~t Katy Lied may be the last work ~eynolds and Paul Wmfield) dig from Steely Dan. Since it has mto her recent past. While come out, several members of the uncovering the debauchery of the combo have joined up with the deceased, Reynolds finds the time Doobie Brothers. A great shame. to dally with a world-class call Top-notch soft rock here, with girl (Catherine Deneuve). though Catherine Deneuve is a pretty . good consolation prize). Johnson keeps thinking that he never spent enough time with his daughter. His wife (Eileen Brenn<J.n) lives in terror, for she remembers his history of psychosis. The action frequently shifts from the present tense to the past tense: the result, of course is pretense. the typical obscure lyrics. If all you know of Steely Dan is ·Rikki, Don't Lose That Number,\ you have an education coming. 4. Blood On The Tracks - Bob Dylan. A definite score, after a couple of near-misses. This is the best one since Blonde On Blonde or maybe Nashville Skyline. The lyrics put the lie to the overall This is the stuff of which good B•movies are made. Unfortunately, director Robert Aldrich and screenwriter Steve Shagan have attempted to turn Hustle into aseriousfilm. Yousee, everyone in this picture has a slew of unsavory memories. Reynolds is haunted by the fact that he lost his wife to another man (even YOUR UNION I.D. CARD IS WORTH 10% MORE AT THE COMPLETE RECORD & TAPE STORE * ·* * * * .APEX MUSIC KORNER * * * * * CORNER OF STATE& BROADWAY Shagan's dialogue reeks of social significance. Not once, but twice is Reynolds asked about the girl's father: \Is he anybody?\ \No (pause), he's nobody.\ This is what , is known as Bargain- Basement Beckett. The most surpnsmg thing about Hustle is that ·critics for some major publications (The Times and The Daily News, for instance) actually liked it. Per~aps it does look fairly good in comparison with the other films Qf 1975. But if that's not damnation by faint praise, nothing is. ,--------. I RUDNICK'S · I ~ t tHEADQUARTERSI f FOR I t LEE I I DUNGAREE'S : f. I t 308 State St. t t ___ .... _·-~-~ Springsteen: still number one. Social events by DOUG ALCAlDE Many views exist about what parties, and special coffeehouses. should be the · function of the If possible 'there would be one Social Committee. In the past the concert in Memorial Chapel, committee has furwtioned under featuring one of the groups the general premise of providing approached for the January 23 tbe campus with entertainment, as date. This would replace t-he often as possible, arid still keeping c~mcet in the rink, should the the cost to the individual student major acts fall through. low. Previously we have Winter Carnival Weekend still scheduled two main events and. shows strong promise of being an three or four \smaller\ events per eilj~pfe event. Thanksa.redue to term. We have decided to change all the fraternities who changed our format, at least for the winter the date of the IFC Ball to the term. third weekend, so the Winter The original plan for the winter Carnival weekend could be on the term involved three major dates. fifth weekend. Highlights of the On January 23, a touring weekend will include a candle- Broadway musical, with either light dinner in Hale House, Grease or .Pippin, was scheduled followed by a semi-formal ball. for memonal chapel. February 6, Or the dinner could, possibl~, be ? ~nd 8 w~re scheduled, for held at the Ramada Inn (where Wmter _carnival ~eekend. A the ball will take place) if concert m the Achilles Hockey reduced-rate dinners can be Rink, with Loggins and Messina. obtained for Union students. the was scheduled for February 20. emphasis of the Winter Carnival The first problem , came up Weekend will be on getting wh~n most of the_ mustcal shov.:s people involved in competitions decided to fimsh up theu between dorms fraternitities and remaining dates iri the Northeast faculty. Events' such as a student- and tour the South for the winter faculty hockey game, a snow- months. The groups are \not sculpturing contest a tug-of-war available:· I his became a trend; on ice and obstacl~ course on ice the comm.itte~ ?isc?vereq that the are scheduled. Awards and prizes usual availability hst of over 400 for the best fraternity, dorm, or a~ts had been reduced to 60; faculty group will be given. mnety p~rcent ?f these acts are Although already beset with only available m late February numerous problems, Winter and ·March. After deciding to Carnival Weekend could be a replace th~ musical with a concert fantastic weekend. The Social in th_e chapel, the Social Committee is still gathering ideas Committee proceeded to look for and would appreciate any acts for both dates. Among the suggestions. list of groups approached for the concert in the rink were: Loggins .r- and Messina,· Jefferson Starship, . . . _. . America, and the combination of ~~llllll~IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUJIIIIIJIIIIIIIIIIIffilllflilllllllll~ Jackson Brown and Dave. M.ason. i. MIKE'S E For the Memorial Chapel (Jan. 1 ~ ~ 23) concert Little Feat, Frank §! ·· ~ Zappa, Marshall Tucker, Elvin 'E ERIE BLVD • ~ Bishop, J. C. Young, and 'i § hundreds of other names were 5 HOT DOGS 5 contacted. All acts are either \in § ~ the studio\ or \not available.\ § HAMBURGERS S, Ther is still a possibility of the § BEST STEAK § combination of Dave Mason aild .5 5 Peter Frampton for the February i SAND WlCHES § 20 date. Mason's answer was not 5 * * * * ~ a definite \not avaltable,\ but ! 1135 Erie Blvd. § chances. for the Jan uaty 23 date Mlllllllllllillllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllli' look shm. One last attempt for · - , - ··· ·· · · --- - John Sebastian is being made . . Should either of these two dates fall through, plans will have to be changed. The committee's feeling at this juncture is that if it cannot confirm \good\ talent, the money (which is a sizeable sum) should be saved tor spring term. Wtnter term would be filled in with small intimate functions like cocktail 374-5921 GEORGE'S MUSIC STORE Student Discounts 508 State St. Schenectady

~o . ·i~ -;,. . < •• CQ . \ BOOK more YOUR Union to write a blurb that exceed 50 words. can be· merely any other thought can be handed in book SENIOR for sub~J~ission of · ' more YOUR Union own artwork, . Furthermore if you and talk. Leave your and Staff: must order the dol Jars. You may, .. Office. ;_ BOOK z 0 - z :::> . . ' CONCORDIEN_Sl$, Wednesday, Jan./4, 1976 ForlimReviews SAGA Service by R.B. THAU One of the. major investigations undertaken by the Student Forum last term was an Saga Food Services. Coincidental with this investigation in November and December was a visit and~ presentation by a rival food ·service, ARA - Slater School and College Services. With the Forum taking the initiative early in November, vafious class representatives visited the West College and Hale House dining halls on two separate nights in an attempt to attract and evaluate student feedback\ about the present-food services~ A list ·of student grievances and suggestions was. drawn up by the Forum and presented to the Food Director here, Greg Stuart, Hale House and Rathskeller director Rob Davis, and Saga district manager Jim Hagaclone. Included in this list were such items as a more varied menu, mote alternatives for board plans,- longer dining hours, an express line at West, and more fresh fruits and salads. It was decided by the Forum and welcometJ?by the Saga directors that a follow ... up meeting would be scheduled for the end of this month or the beginning of February. \SQga Innovations Saga, which operates on a two'\ year contract with the school last signed in April of 1975, has taken steps to remedy many of the grievances voiced by the student body. An express cold cuts line has been instituted at West, dinins hours have been expanded at Hale Hou::~e, and additional fruits and salads are available at both dining facilities. Additionally, in an effort to foster ' . ' greater communication between ,the food service and the students both · dining hall directors are isruing newsletters to inform the student body of Saga's present plans at Union. A subcommittee of the Housing Committee, consisting of Cathy Cummins~ David Gooier, and Andy koblenz, has been establ,ished to further investigate the quality of service rendered by Saga to the school aild determine the benefits of further inquiries about ARA proposals. On Decen1ber I 0 of last year, ARA rnade a presentation. of their ideas fot food services at Union to :Dean of Students ·Mark .. Smith, Dean of Housing I)ebbie Kilgus, Comptroller Dale Timberlake, and the. Housing Committee subcommittee. ARA Proposal Among the major items rneJntion~d in the ARA presentation were .the change of Hale House's system to that presently used at West, thus eliminating a Ia carte diqing; lunch and dinner option plans usable only during the appropriate hours of that ·meal at the Skeller; an atqletic training table; religious and ethnic foods; pre-wrapped hot and cold sandwiches for taking out, and constant checking on the food service opemtions by means of frequent· visits by various administrators within the ARA organization. This last item includes. · visits by the district manager at least twelve times per year, from the area supervisor at least three times, from the supervising dietician eight limes, and visits from the supervising chef at least twice during the year. None of these sugg~sfions are in any way bindmg on the school; they are merely part of the ARA presentation ·of their services and allow for flexibility in that Union will have the option to mold the ARA proposals in the schoors interest. The ARA food presentation, made not at Union's request but .by the food service's, also mentioned twenty- and fifteen- meal plans with sepanite boxes for breakfast, lunch, and dinner at pri<:es of $l.l5, $1.55, and .!! $2.10, respectively. The options at ~ the Skellar would be worth the .;, same prices as the cost per box ~· value. lf the meal was not eaten at ] its specific time, it could not be \\ used later in the week. Silly. SAGA stirrer s Greg Stuart, Saga Food Director at Union, feels that communication and progress are the two most important aspects of running the dining halls here. He .. is currently considering Saturday brunch as a replacement for breakfast and lunch, similar to the manner in which Sunday meals are arranged. Mr; Stuart feels that although student feedback is important there are only certain improvements that can be made within the confines. of the present system. He sees facilities at West, Hale, and the Skeller to be in need of larger amounts of funds from the school if the quality of food is to be markedly improved. In addition, Mr. Stuart cites problems with sanitation services and suppliers of food and equipment as placing limitations on Saga's effectiveness here. Assistant Food Urrector Rob Davis sees limitations in the . present facilities and seating capacities. He feels we should \accept what we have now and build upon it.\ Opinion: Com Having spent a great deal < winter \vacation\ in the hall confines of Schaffer Lib pouring through Supreme ( decisions concerning S( desegregation for my s, Thesis, I feel it necessary to just a few general commen our readers. First off, let wholeheartedly thank the e library staff for the ' greetings which they extendt me every morning upon arrival for yet another all vigil. I am sure more often not; the little subtleties be their smiles escaped me at early hour .... \Oh no, beat i· him again ... yah, you know real nudge ... who's got not H& VI 'PJP You h'c/k. Atso(..{~ 7'1-/Ar 8/C£,<./fEP#fAi.. Gco,<Ge' WA.$HiPG-ro.A/ ,&CJ.<,#1'-!oo?; 50 W~Ar.\;;. ,:o..t., ftt!OO 'r'e»U /J'/iGI-/7 A$ (;V£.1,.{.. /3U'{ A DA-r~U<I. \ A DA7~UP ro..e · .$ ;~oor \'-.a ... ~~ A Pi. 'f#loWtli? I \ . -

···l -,, ·:t. .. _...., .. ·---· .... --~~·--~-----·- .. _ .. ___.. _ _... ____ .._.,._....._. Forlt#t Reviews SAGA Service by R.:O. THAU One of the major investiga,tions undertaken by the Student Forum last term was on Saga Food Services. Coincidental with this investigation in November an<!_ December was a visit and presentation by a . rival food ·service, ARA - Slater School and College Services. With the Forum taking the initiative early in November, vai:ious class representatives visited the West College and Hale House dining halls on two separate .nights in an attempt to attract and evaluate student feedback' about the present-food services. A list of stUdent grievances and suggestions was dtaw11 up by the Forum and presehted · to the Food Director here, Greg Stuart, Hale House and Rathskeller director Rob Davis, and .Saga district manager Jim Hagadone. Included in this list were such items as a more varied menu, more alternatives for board ;plans: longer dining hours, an express line at West, and more· fre·sh fruits and salads. It was decided by the Forum &nd welcomeqt\by ~he Saga directors that a follow-up meeting would be scheduled for the end of this month or the beginning of February. \Saga Innovations Saga, which operates on a two- year contract with the school iast signed in April of 1975, has taken steps to remedy many of the grievances voiced by the student body. An express cold cuts line has been instituted at West, dining hours have been expanded at Hale House, and additional fruits and salads are available at both dining facilities. Additionally, in an effort to foster 1. greater communication ' between the food service and the studeots both dining hall directors are iswing newsletters to inform the student body of Saga's present plans at Union. · A subcommittee of the Housing Collftnittee, consisting of Cathy Cummins; David Gooier, and Andy Koblenz, has been established to further investigate the quality of service rendered by Saga to the school and determine the benefits of further inquiries about ARA proposals. On December W of last year, ARA made a presentation of their ideas for food services at Union to Dean of Students Mark Smith, Dean of Housing Debbie Kilgt~s, ComptroJier Dale Timberlake, and the Housing Committee subcommittee. ARA Proposal Among the major items mention!!d in the ARA presentation were the change of Hale House's system to that presently used at West, thus eliminating a Ia carte diqing; lunch and dinner option plans usable only during the appropriate hours of that ·meal at the Skeller; an atq1etic training table; religious and ethnic foods; pre-wrapped hot and cold sandwiches for taking out, and constant checking on the food service operations by means of frequent visits by various administrators within the ARA organization.. This last item includes · visits by the district manager at least twelve times per year, from the area supervisor at least three times, from the supervising dietician eight times, and visits from the supervising chef at least twice d·uring the year. None of these sug~stions are in any way bindmg on the school; they are merely part of the ARA presentation of their services and allow for flexibility in that Union will have the option to mold the ARA proposals ,in the school's hlterest. The ARA food presentation, made not at Union's request but by the food service 1 s, also mentioned twenty- .and fifteen- meal plans with separate bo.x,es for breakfast, lunch, and dinner at prices of $1.15; $1.55, and ~ $2.10, respectively. T,he options at .g the Skellar would be worth the \ same prices as the cost per box l· value. If the meal was not eaten at its specific time, it could not be used later in the week. Greg Stuart, Saga Food Director at Union, fee'ls that communication and progress are the two most important aspects of running the dining halls llere. He is currently considering Saturday · brunch as · a replacement for breakfast and lunch, similar to the manner in which Sunday meals are arranged. Mr. Stuart feels that although student feedl>ack is important there are only certain improvements that can be made within the confines of the present syst~m. He sees facilities at West, Hale, and the Skeller to be in need of larger amounts of funds from the school if the quality of f()od is to be markedly improveq. In addition, Mr. Stuart cites problems with sanitation services and suppliers of food and equipment as .placing limitations on Saga's effectiveness here. Assistant Food Utrector Rob Davis sees limitations in the -present facilities and seating capacities. He feels we should \accept what we have now and build upon it.\ H.er'! 'PJP Vot( HeM, ti6oGt? 7\1-/Ar 81'Cb#qp,.v/;U .. ~~~ G-Gat<S.~ wAsH/..UGr('M.I ,:t:J~<.. ff 1 t.too ~ Ar>A-r>u..v ro..e · $t¥\a:1!' \-.a .. ~\'!..: Page7 Silly. SAGA stirrer struggles stupidly with simmering sludge. Opinion: Comfy chairs Having spent a great deal of my winter \vacation\ in the hallowed confines of Schaffer Library, pouring through Supreme Court decisions concerning school desegregation for my Senior Thesis, I feel it necessary to verse just a few general comments to our readers. First off, let me wholeheartedly thank the entire library staff for the warm greetings which they extended to me every morning upon my arrival for yet another all day vigil. I am sure more often than not, the little subtleties behind their smiles escaped me at that early hour .... \Oh no, beat it, it's him again ... yah, you know that real nudge ... who's got nothing 50 UJHflr.? r:o.<. fto/'OO ye~u /Yiis-1-/7 A:> w£A- '- e..u 'I A DAT~tM/. ~ better to do than pester us even during vacations ... \ Or the seemingly sympathetic approach ... \Poor guy, having to spend Christmas with his ... bet he'll never let this happen again ... \ Well, now that I have dispensed my personal gratitude, it is now incumbent upon all members of the College community to pay homage to the library staff for their novel interior decorating, and deep-seated good intentions. In keeping with the holiday season's spirit and traditions in terms of delivering mana from heaven, or of the presence of Santa and his accomplices, Schaffer Library opened this term with a new look. Contibued on Page 10 · A fl. 'l#lo~tll? \ . I ----- .....l.'tii:~-c;:;._-s~~i~j I I I ·~-a~~~!fM!Il\WWM..

~ ' • • . f . CONCORDIEN_S/S, Wednesday, Jan./4. 1976 Poge7 _........__~--- . ~ Forhtn Reviews SAGA Service by .R.B. THAU One of the major investigatic;ms underta~en by the Student Forum la!;lt term was on Saga Food Services, Coincidental with this investigation in November an<[ December was a visit and presentation by a rival food ·service, ARA ~ Sl11.ter School and College Services. With the Forqm taking the initiative early in November, various class representatives visited the West College and Hale House dining halls on two separate .nights. in an attempt to attract and evaluate student feedback' about the present-food services. A list of student grievances and suggestions was drawn up by the Forum and presei)ted to the Food Director bere, Greg S~uart, Hale House aild Rathskeller director Rob :Davis, and Saga district manager Jim Hagadone. Included in this list w~re such items as a more varied menu, mqte alternatives for board plans, longer dining hours, an express line at West, and more · fre&h frUits and salads. It was decided by the Forum and welcome<J?by the Saga directors that a follow-up meeting would be scheduled for the end of this month or the beginning of February. greater communication , between the food- .service and the students both· dining hall directors ar.e is~ing newsletters to inform the student body of Saga's present plans at Union. A subcommittee of the Housing Committl:e, consisting of Cathy Cummins! David Gooier, and And.y Koblenz, has been establjshed to further investigate the quality of service rendered by Saga to the school and determine the hen~fits of further inquiries about ARA proposals. On December I 0 of last year, ARA made a presentation of their ideas for food services at Union to Dean of Students Mark Smith, Dean of Housing Debbie Kilgus, Comptroller Dale Timberlake, and. the Housing Committee subcommittee. any way bindmg on t'he school; they are merely part of the ARA presentation of their services and allow for flexibility in that Union will have the option to mold the ARA proposals in the schoors interest. the ARA food presentation, made not at Union~s request but by the food service~s. also mentioned twenty- and fifteen- meal plans with separate boxes for breakfast, lunch, and dinner at prices of $1.15, $1.5'5, and ., $2. JO; .re~~pectively. The options at ~ the Skellar would be worth the :;. · sarne prices as the cost per box !' value. lf the meal Was. not eaten at _g its specific time, it could not be \' used later in the week\ Greg Stuart, Saga Food Director at Union, feels that communication and progress are the two most important aspects of ARA Proposal ninning the dining halls here, He Among the maJor items is currently considering Saturday mention!!d in the ARA brunch as a replacement for presentation were the change of breakfast and lunch, similar to Hale House's system to that the manner in which Sunday presently used at West, thus meals are arranged. Mr. Stuart Silly.SAGA stirrer st~ggles stupidly with simmering sludge. Opinion: Comfy chairs eliminating a Ia carte diqing; feels that although student Having spent a great deal of my better to do than pester us even lunch and dinner option ptans feedback is important there are winter \vacation\ in the hallowed during vacations ... \ Or the usable only during the only certain improvements that confines of Schaffer Library, seemingly sympathetic approach appropriate hours ef that ·meal at can be made within the confines pouring through Supreme Court ... \Poor gu:y, having to spend the Skeller; an atqletic training of the present system. He sees decisions concerning school Christmas with his ... bet he'll table; religious and ethnic foods; facilities at West, Hale, and the desegregation for my Senior never let this happen again ... \ pre-wrapped hot and cold Skeller to be in need of larger Thesis, I feel it necessary to verse Well, now that I have dispensed sandwiches for taking out, and amounts of funds from the school just a few general comments to my personal gratitude, it is now 'Saga Innovations constant checking on the food if the quality of food is to l;>e our readers. First off, let me incumbent upon all members of Saga, which operates on a two- service operations by means of markedly improved. In addition, wholeheartedly thank the entire the College community to pay year contract with the school last frequent visits by various Mr. Stuart cites problems with library staff for the warm homage to the library staff for signed in April of 1975, has taken administrators within the ARA sanitation services and suppliers greetings which they extended to their novel interior decorating, steps to remedy many of the organization. This last hem of food and equipment as placing me every morning upon my and deep-seated good intentions. grievances voiced by the student includes · visits by the district limitations on Saga's effectiveness arrival for yet another all day In keeping with the holiday body. An express cold cuts line manager at least twelve times per here. Assistant Food Uirector vigil. I am sure more often than season's spirit and traditions in has been instituted at West, year, from the area supervisor at Rob Davis sees limitations in the not, the little subtleties behind terms of delivering mana from dining hours have been expanded least three times, from the _present facilities and seating their smiles escaped me at that heaven, or of the presence of at Hale House, and additional supervising dietician eight limes, capacities. He feels we should early hour. ... \Oh no, beat it, it's Santa and his accomplices, fruits and salads are available at and visits from the supervising \accept what we have now and him again ... yah, you know that Schaffer Library opened this term both dining facilities. chefatleasttwiceduringtheyear. build upon it.\ real nudge ... who's got nothing with a new look. · Additionally, in an effort to foster None of these sugg~stions are in Continued on Page. tO· .. . ~IWMI'WI~~flli'fMIIMIWt~_,ftli~~!W'~~~~~WWMWM--~Iatltftll, He.l(l PIP Vot~ Hc.A;( /'960'-f'1 7\t/A1\ BIC£.</f$\pp/;4L. Gca,<c;.e w,f$H/.PGro.V ~tf;ttoo~ 50 WH;iT.? ~o.<. ftvoo 'f'e~u ;njt;-#7 A$ w£A.t. &u'( A DA1':>1M./. ~ A &. Y#lor.lt/1? I \ . J ! c ·~ ! I I I -..:::---~- =-L_~=;..~ (/1£/;?j ! ·~~~~.wawaw~AWt~!W'MIWI~!W'MfiiMirMJJI'II_,.WMJJIM!W'MWMIIMIIIMI¥M~

Page8 CONCORDlENSJS, Wednesda)l. Jan.l4, 1976 ------------------- ....... ----_, . .....,.. .. ._ ...... ~ . . t•. r:e-Juvena. 1on We hope you've noticed by now ... the change, that is. Concordiensis, the oft-maligned and frequently abused Union College student newspaper, has rejuvenated its look and broadened its scope in an attempt to better serve and inform the students of this college. Beyond simple appearances, though, the new editors of this newspaper hope to re-establish in Concordy a well-read forum for the creative and journalistic talents of the entire campus. The popular notien of \closed cliques\ does not apply to this newspaper; we welcome all ideas, physical assistance and criticism. Remember, Concordy will only excel in direct proportion to the thought U~ion students give it. DLM comp eds examined. The Master Plan for Union College is an outline of projected directions the College will take in the future. Such a plan is submitted to the Commission on Independent Colleges and Universities every four years. This year a plan will be submitted by Provost Enteman on behalf of the Planning and ·Priorities Committee. The Master Plan is not reflective of concrete objectives; it is rather, subject to change as deemed necessary. The first stated goal of the plan is \to improve the curricular balance among liberal arts and science, engineering, and general education and career-oriented programs.\ One objective is to review and revise the Comprehensive Education Program. It's about time. In the 1960's Comp Ed was conceived as an extension of a new philosophy in education which stressed the idea that there should be a \humanizing factor.\ The concept held that severe conc~ntration in a specifically defined area is stifling and does not allow for full development of the student as an individual. • VIe The thought was well-taken, but in retrospect there appears to have been a failure in its implementation. In fact Comp Ed proved to be easy enough to manipulate to allow students to maintain their narrow course of study and in later years, the 70's, proved to be stifling in itself. The program became inflexible and literal. The obligation to comply with the requirements of Comp Ed placed unnecessary restrictions on students who wished to broaden their scopes through free electives. Siberia Comes to Schenectady by JACK PITNEY The concept of Comp Ed has become outmoded. Continuation of the program. can only serve to further erode th\il quality of education at Union College. It can be said that the majority of courses offered under the auspices of Comp Ed are not exactly inspiring. Students do not enjoy taking the courses: professors do not feel honored to teach them. Often the coursco.; present no challenge to the .student's or the professor's intellectual ability. Can C'omp Ed he salvaged through an extensive revision of the rro!,!ram and ih objectives'} Possihly. hut it would seem that a o.;impler solution to the problem of broadening education at Union College exists. At Bennington College. the center of controversy. a call has come for the reexamination and redefining of educational goals. The Ad Hoc Committee on Future Direction-. at Bennington asserh that a college such as theirs. in order to sunive. must he hrokcn down into sevcra I major a rea' of con centra t ion with all students involving them'>elves in each area. Can Renn>ington's prohlcms. on a o.;hort-ran,!!e hasis. he applied to Union? Another C<Hir\C of action might he the reinstitution of the 111a:jor-minor program. Between the tw(l extremes there may lie a ..;olution wherehy students would he 41lowed to take a major concentration of course-; and a supplementary rnirii- rninnr(s) which would consi~t nf a logical sequence of courses in a di\·i~ion ~ufficienth· diwrsc from the student's declared major. Whatever the solution may be, the problem of Comp Ed revis1on i\ a matter which demands the immediate attention of the administration. As the leader in small-college educational innm·ation which lTnion claims I!) he, it is ohligated to hccome a k,Hkr in progressi\:c educational movements. We have tried an idea and it has apparently failed, Re- examination and a new nHir\e o1 actiun is in order. MRA President Thomas Bonner has announced that Union College wyl experiment with a bold new fundraising technique: the. production of a major motion picture. The project tentatively entitled Siberia! - is described in a press release as \a musical comedy based on The Gulag Archipelago.\ · The script (by Robert Sharlet) does take a few liberties with the source material. Siberia! will focus less on Soviet political rcpre,~ion than on the amu~in~ qor~ of the love afiair hetween Aleksander Sol7henitsyn and a Communist functionary. 1\iatasha Zihky. The thin plot will serve as a rnnvenient pep: for numerous \on g-.. h\ Hugh Allen Wilson. including: \Old Joe Stalin Done Me Wrong,\' \The Frostbite Song\ and · sure to be a hit - \There Arc :\ewt\ Eyes in \1y Soup.\ Though director Martin Lichterman will not begin shontmg the film until January. he ha:-. already picked his location~. \The West College Cafeteria is admirahly \uited for the Oclnu~ing Cham her.'' he says. \hut other location' present problems. For example. we have to figure out some way to make 1 i h r a r v P I a 1 a I o o k 1 ik c Downt~wn Minsk.\ Castin!! Fxcrnti\·e Tee , ... :~ky poinh v..ith pridr to the care with which performers were chosen: \We knoMr these people. We can tn1s1 them with this great re~ponsihilit~·.·· William Fntctnan will star as S<il7henitsvh. When :~sked what 11 takes tn play the great author. fnteman replies: \Six-inch heck~ Other east memher~ include: Debbie Kilgus as Natasha Zitsky, the Housing Commissar, who revels in the task of cramming twelve prisoners into every bunk - untjl she meets her true love. R.B. Thau as. Fydor the Intellectual, who protests that forced labor, starvation artd torture are \unfilling life experiences.\ Dean Smith as a searchlight tower. President Bonner says that although he wants Si.,eria! to be a \winner.\ he also wants Union College to preserve its dignity as an academic institution. To explain his stand, he is currently making the talk-show circuit. You can catch him this Thursday afternoon on Merv Griffin; other guests include Joe Namath, Fernando Lamas, and Charro. Cl 0 Sl c gl ·W tt

Page8 CONCORD!ENSIS, Wednesday, Jan. 14, 1976 - -- -· --·-------·------ • '• ' ' • ~ • ' \ ' • • ' ' ' ' ' • ,' ' ' • • ' • • ' • ' ' ' • > ,, • I • • • ' '• ' > • • > ' VIe rejuvenation We hope you've noticed by now ... the change, that is. Concordiensis, the oft-maligned and frequently abused Union College student newspaper, has rejuvenated i,ts look and broadened its scope in an attempt to better serve and inform the students of this college. Beyond simple appearances, though, the new editors of this newspaper hope to re-establish in Concordy a well-read forum for the creative and journalistic talents of the entire campus. The popular notion of \closed cliques\ does not apply to this newspaper: we welcome all ideas, physical assistance af!d criticism. Remember, Concordy will only excel in direct proportion to the thought Union students give it. DLM comp eds examined The Master Plan for Union College is an outline of projected directions the College will take in the future. Such a plan is submitted to the Commission on Independent Colleges and Universities every four years. This year a plan will be submitted by Provost Enteman on behalf of the Planning and Priorities Committee. The Master Plan is not reflective of concrete objectives: it is rather, subject to change as deemed necessary. The first stated goal of the plan is \to improve the curricular balance among liberal arts and science, engineering, and general education and career-oriented programs.\ One objective is to review and revise the Comprehensive Education Program. It's about time. In the 1960's C omp Ed was conceived as an extension of a new philosophy in education which stressed the idea that there should be a \humanizing factor.\ The concept held that severe concentration in a specifically defined area is stifling and does not allow for full development of the student as an individual. The thought was well-taken, but in retrospect there appears to have been a failure in its implementation. In fact Comp Ed proved to be easy enough to manipulate to allow students to maintain their narrow course of study and in later years, the 70's, proved to be stifling in itself. The program became inflexible and literal. The obligation to comply with the requirements of Comp Ed placed unnecessary restrictions on students who wished to broaden their scopes through free electives. The concept of Camp Ed has become outmoded. Continuation of the program can only serve to further erode th~ quality of education at Union College. It can be said that the majority of courses offered under the auspices of Comp Ed are not exactly inspiring. Students do not enjoy taking the courses: professors do not feel honored to teach them. Often the course-; present no challenge to the student's or the profes\or\ intellectual a hility. Can Comp Ed he salvaged through an extensive revision of the pro!!ram and its objectives? Possibly. hut it would seem that a ~impler solution to the problem of broadening education at Union College exists. At Bennington College. the center of controversy. a call has come for the reexamination and redefining of educational goals. The Ad Hoc Committee nn Future Directions at Bennington a-;serts that a college such as theirs. in order to survive. must he hrokcn down into <;event! major areas of concentration with all students involving themselves in each area. Can Bennington's prohlems. on a -;hort-range hasis. he applied to Union? Another cour~e of action might be the reinstitution of the major-minor program. Between the two extremes there may lie a :-,olution wherehy students would he allowed to take a major concentration of courses and a supplementary mini- minor('.) which v.ould con~ist of a logical sequence of courses in a divis1on -.ufficiently diwrsc from the student's declared major. Whatewr the solution may he. the problem of Comp Ed revi.,ion i\ a matter which demands the immediate attention of the administration. As the leader in small-college educational innovation which l'nion claim-; to he. it is ohligated to hecome a leader in prngres..,ive educational movements. We haH' tried an idea and it has apparently failed. Re- <:xamination and a ne\~ cnur..,<: of action i.., in order. MRA Siberia comes to Schenectady President '\'Thomas Bonner has announced that Union College wUl experiment with a bold new fundraising technique: the production of a major motion picture. The project tentatively entitled Siberia! - is described in a press release as \a musical comedy based on The Gulag Archipelago.\ The script (by Robert Sharlet) doe~ take a few liberties with the source material. Siberia! will focm less on Soviet political rerre\~ion than on the amu.,ing ~tory of the love affair hetween Aleksander Sol1henitsyn and a Communist functionary. Natasha Zit-.ky. The thin plot will ~erve as a convenient peg for numerous song> hy Hugh Allen Wilson. including: \Old Joe Stalin Done Me Wrong.\ \The Frostbite Son!!\ and sure to he a hit \There Are \ewt\~ Fyc~ in M:-, Soup.\ Though director Martin Iichterman will not begin -;hooting the film until January. he ha\ already picked his locations. \The West College Cafeteria i~ admirably suited for the Delousing C'hamher.\ he says. \hut other locations rre~ent problems. For example. we have to figure out some way to make I.ihrary Pla1a look like Downtown Minsk.\ C'ao;tin~ Fxecutive I ee ..... ;sky point' \'.ith pride to the care with which performer' were chosen: \We know these people. We can trust them with t hi' ,ereat re,ron~ihil ity.\ William Enteman will 'tar as Sol;henit~yn. When ;hked what it take\ to play the great author. fr:lteman rcplie': \Six-inch heels.\ Other ca\1 memher' include: by JAC:K PITNEY Debbie Kilgus as Natasha Zitsky. the Housing Commissar. who revels in the task of cramming twelve prisoners into every bunk --- until she meets her true love. R.B. Thau as Fvdor the I ntellectua I. who protests that forced lahor. starvation and torture are \unfilling life experiences.\ Dean Smith as a searchlight Mifots,; Concordi!lnsi~t! I'm sure I'm not alone in tower. President Bonner says that although he wants Siberia! to be a \winner.\ he also wants Union College to preserve its dignity as an academic institution. To explain his stand, he is currently making the talk-show circuit. You can catch him this Thursday afternoon on Merv Griffin; other guests include Joe :-.:amath. Fernando l.amas. and Charro. inadequacy of the present system. Sine:etely. Michael E, Reltr more ad hoc e-xpressing my strong anger tO\vard the present ticket policy Jor h-ockey ga1nes. After waiting oqe hour for ti<:kets. for the latest To the Cantp!JS Conununity: .t}Vo hocke-y games, I'm not This is jusf ~ remindt!r that convinced that .the· office ,at anyone interested ht serving on · A{Zhilles Rink. is using the be§t ad hoc. or standing -committees system. Surely, the person .that open up during the year . dispensing ticket-s should never -should sign ·up now in the · have to answer the phone (as wa,s Student Activities Office. Some ·· frequently done on January 12 ~. ~tudents who previously signed many students waited on line): ·he, list . have . alteady heen Would it be possible for another JSS~gned to comm1ttees. person to stamp and hand ofitJ · . · . . Sineerely, · tickets while the· office wotk¢1'· · 'fhb Co~mi~~ on Committees ·checks off the names on the master el)r0ll.1nent? Or, wh!;!t about the possible use of ia~.les gleeful praise set up in the lohl;t;Y, so that t'}'o or three ticket lines QoUld be served si:rnu-ltaneously? ff additional full- . :time office willrk~ts cannot •be · hired-, how about using grant~in­ ~id 'students to assist the process? l think these ideas, whether or not the)' have been previously proposed, should l'eceive serious (re) considera;ti.pn in light of the $1Udi';-~t:s~ .e~JiJ_en_$.~ ;,in,~g:t:f.f<ld., byw~ .•. ; .:-' ;.:,\' ······ .·-: ... ----',;\-;. --=~~,:::--~-- -:·.-:'-:· ... -.. _-;...~-'.-. ·=:. .Editors; .concord.iensis: Dece~n.·4- ~'\'as a ,gr<:at night to be at Vnion, :r~_.perfo.rmance of the Men's and Women's Glee 'Clubs was beautifU:t ·I was very it1'tpressed by~ th~ student:{ . l~~~\~~ : . That was ··~ ... ~ ., ' ., I l ' .·. I ·' 0 t

~ ···, \ ' CONCORDlENSlS. Wednesday, Jan.14, 1976 Page9 ....... -~ ........... ......,..~--.~·· ...... ~- .. ~···~....,_...........;... ·-------~.-. ... --~.- ...... ~-------- Symposium to fuse Biology and .Etbi~s by SUE FINKELSTEIN The world of medicine ·will·be meetin~ th~ world of philosl;}p~y on January l3 through 28 at the Albany M~ical College of Union University, where they w.ill be participating ·in a symposiuJ? op ethical problems in medicine and technology .. 1'his event is being presented by the Program of Humanities and Bioethics, Department of Preventative anq Community Medicine, and the Sage Center for the Study of Medical Ethics of Russell Sa,ge College. Students and faculty from AMC, Union, and Russell Sage will be involved in the program, as well ·as visiting professors · and philosophers interested in {he field of bioethics, As seen by Professor Robert Bak~r of Union College, the symposium will serve mor.e than just an academic purpose. For the past two years;. Professor Baket and Canon Rue Moore, Assistant Pr(.)fe.ssor of Preventative and Community Medicine and Director . of the Program of Humanities and B'ioethiCs at Albany Medical College, · have been attempting to in some Way create a feeling of unity b~tween these three institutions and their Sobol strikes: Ladies and gentlemen, welcome to Union College. Don't let its location and size fool you into believing that it is your normal small liberal arts college. You may not know it, but within these grey, conservative walls, plans are being made which will place Union l!.t tJte spearhead of the collegiate advance into the future of education in a. complex world sadly in need ·of a leader. Union College is prep~ring to meet this grave responsibility in . many . ways. Let us examine one of them. The most important aspe<;:t of the new Cellege will be to inform the StUdents. about What IS medically-oriented students. 'fhey feel that the future medical p.rofessionals of th.e three colleges can learn a great deal from each other, and the exposure offered . by such a symposium can facilitate such a relationship. Professor Baker emphasizes tlw symposium as an experiment in creating such a -unity,, while simultaneously offering students a medium .fo.r i•n·teHectual eXiperiences. President Thomas Bonnet, who is· a:lse Chancellor .of Union University in Albany, . will be introducing the symposium, and its first spea·ker, Hans Jonas, Ph.D. Professor Jonas, who ·is visiting from the New School of S<lciai Research, will be speaking on responsibil.ity in ethical theory as applied to the world of medicine. Dr. Jon•.as, distinguished acress the country in this area of philosophy, is concerned with · professionals involved in playing professionals and similarly playing moralists. This question of mo·ral responsibility and to whom it must go is perhaps the ct:ntral question in a symposium of this nature. happening. Since Union radio is run by unconcerned egomaniacs, the responsibility has fallen on the Union newspaper. Any normal person would have been fooled into believing that the newspaper was doing its job-exposing when it could the various ''~gates,\ e.g. Watergate, Rimmergate, etc., of the student gevernrnent (which are al!)o evidence of Union's determination to prepare its students for prod.uctive citizenship). However, it was felt that this sort of journalism was inefficient. So in a stroke of bodoni bold. genius, the Audit Committee of Union appropriated $3100 (at the last On Januar:y 15 at 7:30 p,m., Ra;y Vickers, Professor of Psychology at Albany Medica:! College (AMC), will be speaking on geronol.ogy - the study of aging, and thanology -;..,.. the study of death. Professor Baker will be .examining the issue of medical confidentiality as exemplified by the Tarrasso case. On J~nuary 19 at 2:00 in the afternoon, The Reverend Cad Hooper, Geoi\ge- , Annes, Director of Center for Law and Health Science at Boston University, Barry Gold, Professor of Law at Albany Law School, and Frederick Grunberg, Professor of Psychology, AMC, will be joining Professor Baker in the analysis of this case, -George Annes, co-author of the Patient's Bill of Rights, now used by th.e American Hospital Association, will speak on the rights of patients at 7:30 that evening. On January 21st, Judith P. Swazey, Ph.D., Boston University School of Medicine will be speaking on the ethics of transplantation and dialysis. Swazey examines the costs, both financial and emotional, to the patient when forced to he by PETER SOBOL count) for the formation of a second newspaper. The genius is evident when one refl~cts that the editors of the second newspaper are themselves responsible for the campus \.-gates.\ What rparvelous economics! What a brilliant shortcut! What an heroic elimination of the middle-man! The people who make the news can now write it up themselves, ,· saving time and preventing the inaccuracies which are a consequence of letting uninvolved persons transcribe the facts. Investigative reporting will assume a new appearance. The editors of the new paper may now interview another. without dependent on a machine for survival. Robert A. Murvay, Jr., a trustee of Union. College and Associate Professor of Pediatrics and Medicine at Howard University, is worried about the impact of genetic screening programs and will be addressing the symposium on January 22'at 7:30 p.m. ·Professor Murray's talk will examine thE effects of notifying people of such illnesses and how such notifications should be handled Continued on Page 14 Asst. Professor Robert Baker even leaving their newsroom. Indeed, ·the newsroom and the government meetiHg hall could be one and the same place. And thirik of the scoops which the new paper could •pull on the old one. The new paper's editors need only think up the news and print it - no conjecture, no wondering about where to go for the real~ word - who could argue with such an improvement? · Of course this new plan puts a tremendous strain on the editors of the new paper. They have the terrible choice of whether to withhold from publication the news which they have created, forcing them to go elsewhere for news, but retaining the ability to pull \-gates\ on the campus community (which is their function) or to print what they know to be true and lose the ability to pull .. -gates,\ at the same time hampering their own chances to succeed in the outside world government. We cannot know what they will choose, but we can guarantee that it will become the t-r.aRd-setting idea in college journalism. union college Concordiensis rPif(JH<;.I\;-<\Hif I ('\l'l Tl'RF \I'W<; .f-f' \II' R !<; IAYOlll .. ll ASSIIIII>I'Atd .......... . COP\' ·\ R I (' ·\1 r'\1 > ·\ R Bl'\l\\1\<; \1·\\\1\! '-;·1· fl'-;( '1111' I !O\\'-; '\; <\ TIO'\' 1\ I \[)'\ ('\01\ITRIRI 'Tf'llr. FniTOR I'HOIOiiR 1\I'HY 'd\11 llll'-;fS\;f'l \l•k.: Alllllll• Dd\U.l 1\h~>k<mll/ '-'tH: f Hllo.<:l,trm. [)J.tnc·,l·l-.,,n \\1drn ~~~,d~ ... ,=h,:d. '-HI·~· i)r.tpcJ Chn' ()\( ·;lt1f1,,r ( -h.lt.ll<..' ll.1n.lg.tf1. J,1hn Bu ... r~·-r tuL \II~ r.~- Pr h..~.o· I .u·, t' T r ,t\ :' Tnrld \llll~r Ph1l 1\ kahe' I r.: ... rn \\'n,, ..,her II I .11 r.,·r R hnnd.• K ;~rl.111 Shcllc\ (i,•ld Sin c Kdl\ f.h ~ l':trll'\ \1d~.e \1,~rJ..,_ ·r,Hn \\.dJc, 1l1\f1 1-t l!''t'f. t!l ·\n '.1llicr H uri\ I 11 I >:~• :·..., \\'\·\' (irq!('nhen. \11kc Rd!tlndr. L•l' -l.ttJhn. Fllen Harlack I r' Trachtm-.n T,,,., R.•roun.rNr Arl \1•11er. Rnh 'VInnd,,·hc•., t•lcnn Wolbon. Kcllc) :>.e\H<>n. Rill Pee~. Barhard Shapuu. Cher}l I ankel. RflThall Inc C'\:~rrnl\1<' rd \1,·!ikc·. ''·\' '-Kii/c'l O;:,vr <.;andrr,nn rcrcr S-·~hnl. \f.ttl Brrct J).tn Rtl\cnh.tllil' CON CORDIENSIS is published ner,t Wednesday by the student body of Onion College, Old Cym Hall, Schenectady, N.Y.; to which Postai Form~ 3579 are directed. Publications Office: The Jew.ish World Publrcations, 416 Smith St., Schenectady, N.Y. 12305 (370-5483). Entered in the Schenectady Post Office as Secorsd Class :\latter. Subscription Rate 35 cents per copy. $8.00 a year delivered anywhere in' the United States.

~ ' t n s r e e· j It e ~ 1 ,; < J -~ ~I ~ ' '!J ' .tj \ 4 ! {:! \'• ! ~ Jt J ' ·i ' ;; \' -; ' ~f ~ I ' -.~ \ ,·, \ CONCORD!ENSIS, Wednesday, Jan. 14, 1976 Page 9 . -- -~ -- '-\ ---- --- ,,... _______ -···------------ ---~--· _ ................ ~------ .... -- - ... - . • oint ' • ' ~ • • • • • • • - - • • '• • • ' • ' ' • - • • ' J • • .. ' • • ' ' : .. ' ' • - .. Symposium to fuse Biology and Ethics by SUE FINKELSTEIN The world of medicine will be meeting the world of philosophy on January 13 through 28 at the Albany Medical College of Union University, where they will be participating in a symposium on ethical problems in medicine and technology. This event is being presented by the Program of Humanities and Bioethics, Department of Preventative and Community Medicine, and the Sage Center for the Study of Medical Ethics of Russell Sage CoUege. Students and faculty from AMC, Union, and Russell Sage will be involved in the program, as well as visiting professors and philosophers interested in the field of bioethics. As seen by Professor Robert Baker of Union College, the symposium will serve more than just an academic purpose. For the past two years, Professor Baker and Canon Rue Moore, Assistant Professor of Preventative and Community Medicine and Director of the Program of Humanities and Bioethics at Albany Medical College, have been attempting to in some way create a feeling of unity between these three institutions and their Sobol strikes: medically-oriented students. They feel fha>t the future medical professionals of the three colleges can learn a great deal from each 0ther, and the exposure offered by such a symposium can facil-itate such a relationship. Professor Baker emphasizes the symposium as an experiment in creating such a unity. whi>le simultaneously offering studeFlts a medium for intellectual ex. peri en ces. President Thomas Bonner, who is als0 Chancel'lor of UFlion University in Albany, will be introducing the symposium, and its first speaker, Hans Jonas, Ph.D. Professor Jonas, who is visiting from the New School of Social Research, will be speaking on responsibility in ethical theory as applied to the world of medicine. Dr. Jonas. distinguished across the country in this area of philosophy, is concerned with professionals involved in playing professionals and similarly playing moralists. lhis question of moral responsibility and to whom it must go is perhaps the central question in a symposium of this nature. On January 15 at 7:30 p.m., Ray Vickers, Professor of Psychology at Albany Medical College (AMC), will be speaki,ng on geronology - the study of aging, and thanology - the study of death. Professor Baker will be examining the issue of medical confidentiality as exemplified by the Tarrasso case. On January 19 at 2:00 in the afternoon, The Reverend Carl Hooper, George Annes, Director of Center for Law and Health ScieNce at Boston University, Barry Gold, Professor of Law at Albany Law School, and Frederick Grunberg, Professor of Psychology, AMC, will be joining Professor Baker in the analysis of this case. George Annes, co-author of the Patient's Bill of Rights, now used by the American Hospital Association, will speak tm the rights of patients at 7:30 that evening. On January 21st. Judith P. Swa1ey. Ph. D., Boston University School of Medicine will he speaking on the ethics of transplantation and dialysis. Swazey examines the cost!i, both financial and emotional, to the patient when forced to be dependent on a machine for survival. Robert A. Murray, Jr., a trustee of lJ nion College and Associate Professor of Pediatrics and Medicine at Howard University, is worried about the impact ot genetic screening programs and will be addressing the symposium on January 22 at 7:30p.m. Professor Murray's talk will examine ths effects of notifying people of such illnesses and how such notifications should be handleci Continued on Page 14 Asst. Professor Robert Baker Union spurs journalistic innovation Ladies and gentlemen, welcome to Union College. Don't let its location and size fool you into believing that it is your normal small liberal arts college. You may not know it, but within these grey, conservative walls, plans are being made which will place Union at the spearhead of the collegiate advance into the future of education in a complex world sadly in need of a leader. Union College is preparing to meet this grave responsibility in many ways. Let us examine one of them. The most important aspect of the new College will be to inform the students about what ~~ coufdn't leave after the first show, I ha:d to stay for the second .•. : . The . studeilts and faculty who participated both in the Glee Club's perfo-rmance and Cabaret deserve many thanks for the thne, enetgy, artd talent they give to U rtie>n. Sincerely, Tlierese Ambrusko Assistant to the :Provost · .. I}l.ENSI.S will print all _ ..... _ . to .thJ editors at ~e·4i~t'eti9JA,l->f tb~ editQria1 All: l~tte~ must be ·lulU'. submit~d to the !tois~ €4}NG0.D:Y rt+~ves the right ··to .matte edit.-<ttial ~o ... · .. J'i»n letters- de-iJJi~ · -wfth . · er . olides. · · .. . ·. p · ...... . ·AU ,:;~U.~ ... ~ ''ot ·)})~ .u:Uion Coll~&e ·' student body are inviUfd to 'work for CONC9RUJENSIS' M in any aspect .-qf its ffinttion, the oniy requit>enh~flt t(Jf s.urr memb~rship being a devotion (){ dme • happening. Since Union radio is run by unconcerned egomaniacs, the responsibility has fallen on the Union newspaper. Any normal pers()n would have been fooled into believing that the newspaper was doing its job-exposing when it could the various \-gates e.g. Watergate, Rimmergate, etc., of the student government (which are also evidence of Union's determination to prepare its students for prod.uctive citizenship). However, it was felt that this sort of journalism was inefficient. So in a stroke of bodoni bold genius, the Audit Committee of Lnion appropriated $3100 (at the last by PETER SOBOL count) for the formation of a second newspaper. The genius is evident when one reflects that the editors of the second newspaper are themselves responsible for the campus \-gates.\ What marvelous economics! What a brilliant shortcut! What an heroic elimination of the middle-man! The people who make the news can now write it up themselves. · saving time and preventing the inaccuracies which are a consequence of letting uninvolved persons transcribe the facts. Investigative reporting will assume a new appearance. The editors of the new paper may now interview one another without poetr·y to bring tears to your eyes E-ditorli, Conoor11iensis; Union College was donated ~new facility Which has anempred to c~ate a 1tabillty Between our merit-ed academic success And the athletic potentiality' we profess. So Mr. Achilles came in aQ.d said. \Here Something to keep students from beer!\ Admissions drafted. convinced. and pleaded T 0 !(CI !_he hoqkey playc>S that ;'fC needed. Achilles rink became the hig rage And was ad-vertised on every other page Of correspondence to Alumni beneficiary. They ev¢n stuccned it. to be traditionAry. Student> walked by and thought about the day That the~· would cheer and rMt their team on every play. What a wav to relax from a trying class. And bring iogether Union en m~me. PMple wl.'re accming us nf being apathetic -- Our f!.'asnning wa; that we were tlM too athletic. But here wa~ the S!'lort that would entice all E~n-if thev didn't likl: renni~'o:r f{)otball. Butfaithfui students your asplmtlotts were too hi_gh. And ym1trlisted reports until the action was nigh. You h11d to find out that the rink was not for you But for all the Schenectady ticket·holders who C'dtlld finance the eXJ)e1f~C~ of S\lCb .a big pla<:e And Ur!lnn ·C'ollege was mtrr:ely the home base. So if yo-u. want 1 he opport!lllrty of attending a game. VC>u'd !letter uamp out by this hall of fnrue.You cannot cry. weep. o-r stamp. An1:! ~ay that you personally know tlte champ Because then: are only so few tickets on. ''hol:d\ Althoug~ it's ()llr team, or !i~ wl?re t<Jld. So get our and trample your classmates for a place in line to t,tet A ticket for next y<>ar'~ ·hMkey g<tme, then you'll he all set. ,J~ycc A. F:a!iley '77 even leaving their newsroom. Indeed, the newsroom and the government meeti11g hall could be one and the same place. And think of the scoops which the new paper could ·pull on the old one. rhe new paper's editors need only think up the news and print it no conjecture, no wondering about where to go for the real' w0rd who could argue with · such an improvement'! Of course this new plan puts a tremendous strain on the editors of the new paper. They have the terrible choice of whether to withhold from publication the news which they have created, forcing them to go elsewhere for news, but retaining the ability to pull \-gates\ on the campus community (which is their function) or to print what they know to be true and lose the ability to pull \-gates at the same time hampering their own chances to succeed in the outside world government. We cannot know what the:: will choose, but we can guarantee that it will become the trMld-setting idea in college journalism. umon C d• . college OflCOr IeOSIS F [)IT 0 R 'i -I'\ -CHI Tl ('l I TI'Rl '\ 1\\''-'-11 \ l l R f<; '-;f'ORI'- I \YO!. l !'I -\'-''-11 lllli'-\Cil (\()!'\' -\R l C\11''\1>\R Rl'\l'\1 \-'-' \! \'\·\CiiR '-;! fl'-;CR II'! !0'\'i '\·\I 10'\ ·\1 ·\DS CO\ I R IRT ·1 1'\(i fJ)IIOR PHOIOCiR \f'IIY \1Jkt• ·\fflOII. [),J\Id \1~~~'-.~~\\lt/ 'uc }lnk.d-.tcJIL Ihuw 'c],,,n \udrc\ R,,,h,~,:hdJ. ~t1c llr.trcr ( ·hn .. ( l'( ~'·ln,,r C'h.trht• f !Jn.t~.l£ 1 • ),lll~' Hn ... L'T tJd \II\ r.\· Pntt: I .I r~ 1.. t' J r ,I\ '' I ,,dd \IJ::;.·r Ph•~ \ll.the .. I L' ... tl' 1 \\ i.'l'' '> lwt\ I I .11 ~t'l Rhnnd.t 1\,n,l.tn '-'hclk\ ( ;,·ld \--it'\~· }\l·li\ l.h 1.. P·tnc\ \1d,c \1.lr~ .... T~'m \\ dk' J).\n fl.l~';n. l!l \rt \ldk1 Rll<h It: ll.!lc'\\' ··\:J: (ire~ C11ht:r1. \fJJ..~,.· R,-tltJth..fL l,ll' I .111her rlkn H..!d.lrk. ll'' T f.lthlll\a'..fl 1 tlll\ Rt1ril.IT1,1/II 'iT \II Ill I'- l'i'-;!'1 -\n \1dle• R •• ~ \L,nd,, h,-,., (iknn \\.1,Jt.,lln t\.L·lln 'n.\l,ln Hllll'eck. B.,rf,.lf.l ..;h,!pu<•. Ch,·r;l 1 .1nkl'l RB I h.111 '\\ C.trr\\ ,,, f d \1,·nl-c \!.uk '-clr\·' Da\t~ \\,Jndt.'r'•'n Peter ....;,,~~~1. \1.ttr Hncl 1 ),111 R., .... cnh.n::t' C'ONCORDIENSIS is published e'er~ Wednesday b~ the student body of Cnion College, Old Gym Hall, Schenectady. N.Y.; to which Postal Forms 3579 are directed. Publications Office: The Jewish World Publi-cations, 416 Smith St., Schenectady, N. \'. I 2305 (370-5483). Entered in the Schenectadv Post Office as SecO!Jd Class \1atter. Subscription Rate .'5 cent~ per copy. $8.00 a year delivered an~ whe~e in· the l'nited States.

_!age ..... l~O· .......... _,__ ______ ..,.....:.-___,__.;._.:.._·. ___ .. .._.__.._C_f:!N~ORDIENSIS, Wednesday, Jan. '14._1976 Hockey forfeits '. Continued .from PaRe 1 every effort to. bring this matter jrito the open an:d clear up any possible violations ·of the riiles as soon as possible.\ On Friday, 19th the ECAC imposed two disciplinary penalties: I) Union must offer forfeiture of its two games - Cortland State and Ottawa - in which Jack Rankin participated. 2) Jack Rankin would be ,neligible to play until January 16th, 1976 (fnissing two games). The basis of the ECAC decision was founded on the regulation that stipulates that when one player transfers from a four-year college to a two-year college and back to a four-year college within a space of two years, he must sit out the first term at the fmal four-year college at which he matriculates, in this case Union. Both Cortland and Ottawa were informed over the phone that evening of the situation. At the time both schools declined the offer to forfeit their games with Union, fully understanding the oversight. However, a written statement, upon instruction from the ECAC, still had to be sent out to confirm the offer of forfeiture on Union's part. This was done on January 2, 1976, by Athletic Director Allison. On January 8th he received a letter from the new · Cortland Athletic Director accepting the forfeit of the game, a game which Union won handily, 14-4, on December 2, 1975. Ottawa still showed no interest in the fmfeiture. . The people here at Union involved were shocked and dismayed by the action taken by Cortland under the circumstances. Professor Thomas Kershner, Chairman of the Faculty Athletic Committee, commented, \We are surprised by Cortland's actiorr in view of the one-sided nature of the game, but it is our firm intention to live Library - . Jim Salfi, RPI.hockey coach, who commented, as he ducked playing Union, \We have everything to lose and nothing to gain.\ strictly by the letter as well as the spirit of every regulation governing our atheltic teams. We gladly accept the decision and look forward to our return match with Cortland on February 28.\ Coach Harkness echoed Kershner's thoughts by saying, \Myself and the tearnare upset by the Cortland decision and will certainly give them .aU they can handle in February's contest.\ Pub Debuts • ID by KELLEY NEWTON Some time around the third week of February, Craig Carlson hopes to be able to offer the Union community an alternative to the existing campus dining facilities. · At that time, the restaurant~pub, located in the basement of Carnegie, equipped lllq~-c.. with full dining and drinking facilities, will open its doors to Union's faculty, students and staff. The final five or six weeks of preparation - the opening date is not yet definite - will involve a great deal of work. The primary _ Con~!J_e_!l from Page 7 obstacle at this point is the lack of 1 Of courSe; as you have already a manager for the pub. A careful surmised, I am addressing myself sear~h has . yielded several to more than the sparkling new qualified candtdates, all of whom conveniently located library have restaurant management lounge. Although on appearance experience. Carlson's committee 'fop·T:efi· Continues Continued from ,Page 5 more important, because it pFoves that the best of the early .progressive groups of the '60's is back and produ<;ing. You do realize they are one of the last remaining San Francisco bands, don't you? ' 9. Captain Fantastic and tb~ Brown Dirt Cowboy .... Elton John. No, rm not ki(l.ding! I admit that EJ has been slipping of late, but Capt. Fantastic is not part of the general decline. Indeed. it has some of the best music since Honiy Chateau. It was intended as a concept album, and as such, it doesn't quite make it. Individually, though, the tunes make it. the mix of ballads and rockers is just . right, and the melodies and lyrics are introspect8ive without being maudlin. Purge . your· prejudices, and listen to it. 10. Ambrosia. A new group Feb . -· that has· not had too much exposure outside of some .progressive radio stations. Two singles were released from .the \ atbum: \H oldin' On To Yesterday\ and \Nice~ Nice,. Very Nice.\ Neither went very far, which is more · or less to their credit. the music is fairly s.oft rock, and while not especially important as an album, · it did provide some of the more enjoya:bie listming this yeEJ;t. Loser of the year w<~,s an easy choice: Met~l Machine Music, by Lou Reed. Something is amiss, when, · looking over the instrumentation, one sees the claim that no _instruments or synthesizers were use<J, just an imposing battery of amps and other paraphernalia. lf you. enjoy 60 minutes of· grinding metal, by all means, tmh out and buy it. Ifs being withdrawn from the market. But for all you sane people, who pass this. one up, just sit back and laugh at tha;e who didn't. The year's also-rans should. get some mention. In no particular order, they are: Sneakin' Sally Through The Alley, Robert Palmer {Best medley of the year; Little Feat influenced); The Who By Numbers; The Basement Tapes, Bob Dylan; Straight Shooter, Bad Company: BJow By Blow, Jeff Beck .(best guitar texture work this side ofHendrix); Still Crazy After AU These Years, . Paul Simon; Nightingales and Bombers, Manfred Mann's Earth Band (Captivating rhythms and harmonies); Between The Lines, Janis Ian {of \Society's Child\· f~me, now grown up and doing beautiful things); Second Step, Aztec Two-step; Wind On The Water, David Crosby and Graham Nash (Who needs Stills and Young if these two can do it alone?), and Sparticus, Triumvirate (ELP-like). . it may seem to be merely a new for the pub, working with the location for a number of chairs personnel office, hopes to have a such a renovation represents ~ manager by the end of next week. radical departure from previous Basic construction work on the Construction progresses on Restaurant/ Pub; with plans for a And so the end of a lengthy list s11mming up a year of few really history-making albums, and many that just missed. If your favorite isnt here, I'm sorry, but either I missed it, or I don't agree. Whichever, I'll be glad to argue. library norms. facility and installation of When I inquired of many \big- equipment are slated to be whigs\ in the library bureaucracy completed. by Fe.bruary . J st. as to the high level decision made II_tclu?ed m the eqUipment IS an to institute such a bold move, 1 atr ct~c~lator, which is required was advised to keep my nose by buddmg codes and takes from clean. Nevertheless, as any good two. to three. weeks t? inst~ll .and c~b reporter would do (a la begm operatmg .. Dunng th1s time, Jtmmy Olsen) I persisted with my - the manager wtll be more than investigation and unearthed some busy. · startling never-reported statistics Th~ manager must order all which at this time shall be made utensils, cutlery, china, glassware, ~n~wn. Recent library surveys paperware, and cash registe.rs, md1cate that nearly 61% of ali an~ contact the purveyors. Wtth people who enter Schaffer asststance from the committee he Library never in their life will also decide menus, prices and intended to pick up a book during hourtj. Not the least of his their stay. Of t~se individuals, re_sponsi~il.ities will be the hiring 85% reported that in one form or and trammg of all personnel. another the library's atmosphere Carlson thinks that it is very presented to them the most probable that students with cordial atmosphere in which to applicable experience will make mingle with the \intelligentsia\ on ~p m~st of the pub's personnel, campus. This view was further mcludmg bartenders. Strict enhanced by the fact tltat of those controls will allow the pub . to polled more than 70% knew offer prices competitive with the nothing about the existence of the existing Saga facilities without card catalogues (Birthday and operating through a food service. Christmas were the usual Although much depends on the responses), vertical files and manager, Carlson is leaning micr<>film reading rooms. ' to~ard employing waiters and My only suggestion to those wattre~ses rather than the usual who really formulate library cafe.t~na..,style, a.s one of the policy is that they not only add1t10~al attractiOns of the pub. include an explanation of the uses At thts.moment, the restaurant-: of such a well situated lounge so pubj albeit n~t of the moment of as to increase usage, but that they the h~ckey rmk, h?lds as much accordingly provide it with a pot~nt!al for alterm~ some of dignified name. Got any '-lmons non-academt.c patterns. suggestions? C'arlson hopes to budd the pub February opening. into something more than an occasional special night out; rather, he hopes that students, faculty, and staff will frequent the pub for meals throughout the week, and will view it as a place to go for a cup of coffee or a drink. With affordable prices, an occasional entertainment special, and an atmosphere of old Union - including pictures ·and prints unearthed from attics and basements on campus and featuri~g an authentic Eliphalet ~· :&e·· ~~~ . . Nott signature - the restaurant- · · . · ~ · ~ pub does seem a welcome . .. . . \=:. .. ..-\ -;::t? addition to the campus. The Graduate.magazine helps you· 'GRADUATE· be w'-o you want to be Four years of early .classes, final exams and a brand new sheepskin won't automatically make you a do.ctor, lawyer or Indian chief. First you'll have•to make some heap big decisions. l:ike how to survive the job hunt. Pick a practical career. Plan your finances. Real questions that need solid answers. That's why we're giving you The Graduat:e, A Haildbook for Leaving Schoo/, It's filled with answers to these questions and many more. Don't miss· your free copy of The Graduate: It's bound to. help-no matter who you want to be. ·FREE f~r rr~duatlng seniors Journe)l' Through Adulthood·Practlcal f .- LIVIng catatos·career$ '76·The o1p1oma .•Qm The Office of Placemen.t a_nd_ career·· • Dillunina-Anci More • ' C li ~-----~-----.!.......-~ · · ouns~ ng and the Alumni Office. Pick ------------------- up your copy in the Placement Office • . '- j j ~ - l -

by LILLIAN SMITH My beli~f in the movernent toward women in management i~ based upon the c~mviction that attitude11 as well as motivations tuust undergo cbang~. .A deeper understanding is needed of tne forces. determining the cause of the f¢rninist movement, the influence of such factors as the ideology and goals of feminism; Freudian theory as .it relate& to status differentiation between the sexes, and the current legislative action affecting wom~n. Much has been wr:itten on all phases.of these elements which significantly contribute to the complexity ·of the question but, in •simple terms. · how man¥ Wt>men themselves are to .blame and to What extent wiU they make an effort to change? Ttaditio:naUy, Ameri·can capifiilism has been steeped in \ma:Je chauvinism\ - possibly with ••female collusion\ throughout the years. Will the ma~ifestation of conscio~-raising by Women's Lib and the new moraJity of today's youth overcome these practic(!S or will Madison A venue continue to hold <?nto its .power! Even \bear Abby:' . is . still advocating the · double stanaard: her column for the Times Unioo on Noverr{ber 9, 1975 involved a criticism by a reader whel!ein \Abby\ denied a wife in one case the freedom she encouraged for another's h:u,sband · in a sep(\rate case. Her answer in part was, ''I guess deep down I disapprove of women going stag to public <lances. It's still a man's world.\ -, The emphasis for women getting into management must be <;n their resources, interests and acbievements. Are our goals and standards set high enoltgh and are we making a- concentrated effort to prepare ourselves for this exciting challenge? I think not. Oh, yes, a few of us will persevere, and a, few of us will make it, but unfortunately most of us are doing more \wishing\ than ••pu$hing.\ Dr. Sherry Penney, an Associate in higher education for the State of New York, gave. some good advice when she stated that in order to compete in institutions of higher le.arning . we must (I) have a good education and credentials, if these ·have been attained, then one need1 publications; (2). have a variety of experiences, get to meetinp. conferences, present papers,. and make contacts; (3) possess a l~t of energy, as we need to Qave total commitment; (4) be lucky, be at the right place at the right time. Do we have the courage and determination to follow that advice? Statistics say w.e don't. The following data on women recipients as a percentage of total recipients of doctoral degrees for selected years from 1900 to 1973 shew that so.me progress is beina made; although at an extremely slow rate: Millett speaks on • Year 1900 ·1910 1920 1930 1940 l950 i960 1970 1973 Percent 5.8 • 9;9 15.1 15,1 13.0 5.7 10.5 13.3 18.0 Even though national statistics show some slow progress, most women Ph.D's are being hired primarily at the instructor and assistant professor levels. .ff women have been thinly represented on faculties, especially in traditionally male in 1'973 included only one woman. fields, they have been even more No woman is the director of a scarcely represel).ted in top major museum. Nor does a academic positions. e. B. Nyquist woman .conduct a successfuJ · pointed OUL some . fbrther symphony. orchestra anywhere itt e.l(amples of the nitity of women America.\ · · in high supervisory or policy-. There certainly seems to be making positions, ~only three plenty of room for improvement womeri have served in the United for the status of women in ~States Senate since women were management positions but are we gftnted the right to vote in 1920. motivated, will we prepare None are in the Senate today. ourselves and do we really want Only four women are U. S. to put forth all the time and effort ambassadors. Out o( the 1,366 necessary to qualify? Most members of the New York Stock indications are that we do not. E~change, just one is a woman. Patience is a necessary ingi·edient ihe ·BUsiness Wee~ roster of in this slow progress toward America's Jliabest-f8id eXCfo:Utives equality of the sexes and must play a key role in its development. However, it seems to be a trait lacking in most of today's youth, particularly females. They are anxious to hurry and \grow up\ but neglect to do long-range planning with regard to their soals, priorities, attitudes and motivations. Although there are almost as many women in our colleges today as men, many of them will only make very limited use of their qualifications as they do not envisage having to earn a living for the rest of their lives. Marriage still seems to be regarded as the \real career\ for women. ln fact, the concept of marriage does not allow women to be truly i·ndepend·en t. Dependence does not make the tives of mosf men happier either. Part of the answer .to our dilemma of trying to break through into management stresses change - change in our attitude toward ourselves. It has been said that we are our own worst enemy, .but why should this be so? It is ., l sexua .• I cult:u~re'· 'i time to stop the ruckus over semantics and dress codes, to stop acting insecurely and emotionally; these actions only perpetuate the myths about unstable and scatter- brained women. It's time we learned that to be aggressive is not to be unfeminine. A good start in trying to cultivate a new attitude is to learn how to tell a winner from a loser: by JACK PITNEY - In a lecture at · Memorial Chapel Monday night, fe..tninist author Kate Millett {Sexual Polities, Flying) offered a critique of what she ·called \the sexual culture.\' Millett used. the term, \first of all, to cover the .attitudes and values .that culture places around the sexual act itself, and secondly, to cover the relationship betWeen the sexes within a culture. •• She said that throughout the entire historical period, the sex:ual culture has been ,P.Iltriarchal: by and large,· males have kept females in subservience. · She explaine<l that the institution of male dominance tends to be self- perpetuating; for men have created 'the myth that they are fERRO'S - .PHARMACY-· destined by nature to .govern. Millett described · some of the results of this system. \It has meant the violation -of child- wives, the soci~lly imposed shame of . menstruation, the agony of childbirth in a c;ulture bent on making· it Eve's curse. it has been the compliance of the hungry, the guilt 'of the fearful and even the abuse of children:· S.he said that the sexual culture has actilal1y been \deterrnined~y down on sex, against sex, hostile to ~ex, repelled by it.\ Tbe sex act has represented a relationship not of affection but of power. She declared that his way of thinking has robbed sex of much of its passion. Millett conc;:luded that the struggles for the liberation of women.. and homosexuals . are. closely related. She said that the basic principle of both of these efforts has be~n the ~right of humans to live. and love in peace. ''If we are to be responsible for bringing about a better way to live,\ she. said, \I think the one thing that· we have to remember most of all i~ that a revolution is riotll1rtg if it's not love.\ Mother Ferro's ·Restaurant ~EARLY BIRD SPECIALS o(Monday~Sunday-- It' AM-6 PM) · Baked t..sapa with ·Meat Sauc:~ In Cuserole -Reg. $3.15 a.ked E*IPlmt Parmesan witb $pagbettj ..... Reg. $4.95 OJily $2~95 Sptlbetti . .ad'Meatblllls -.. Rt!!. S2.85 Only St.85 · .Veat.cutlet with Sp~Petif- :Rea. $4.25 Only $3.25 •, Plus 'Other Specials · - · . 1115 a.rrett St. Future joumttillst dlsp4;ys llttmnpts to- co'ltVert living quarters . into haven for serious .. newspaper people.\ President Con~nued from Page l calendar proposals that have been floating around campus for the past year seem most viable. \Two alternatives make sense - a two- semester plan with an early start or a cgntinuance of the status quo.\ Dr. Boner commented that plans such as the 4-3-2, or split term proposals \don't make sense.\ He added that Union's $50-60 million , physical plant might best be utilized by developing fuller summer school usage. According to the President, resistance . to . greater summer teaching stems from there being ''no tradition\ of it at Union. Beauty, Chairs, and Hockey The President also revealed the College's plan& to remodel the area · in front of the Security Office and the Rathskellar .. \This area .is . Union's 'front door' - where · prospective students get their first im)'ressions.\ Plans for such an \entry plaza\ are now bein8 priced by the development Moffett's office. Plans are also being finalized for the filling of Union's endqwed chairs - the appointments to begin in the fall of 1976. Also Henry Steele Commager is being sought as a visiting instructor who wiU give weekly campus-wide lectures. Art Historian James Flexner will deliver the Walter Baker Art and Civilization lecture sometime in April. Bonner Views Hockey Forfeit In a final comment, the President expressed his belief that ·the ·~unfortunate action\ that led to Union's hockey forfeiture to Cortland State was completely inadvertent. \It was a violation of the law, not the .spirit ... as Professor Kershner said, we look forward to the February 28 home game.\ Finally, on Hockey's effect on Union: \It brings an increase in identification that Union has lacked ... the stronger students will be attracted by Union's greater visibility.\ · Welc-ort)es ]Jack Union Grads For :Homecoming Weekend · For the Weekend: Chilled Wines and Premium Liquors Monday-Saturday 9:30' a.m.-9 p.m •. 1505 V A.'N VRANKEN . A wjnner goes through a problem; a loser goes i\round it, and never gets past it. The Rape Crisis Service of Scheneetady will hold a Volunteer training Session on Saturday, January 31st, from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the YWCA on Washington Ave. in Scheliedady. The session will include the showing and discussion of a. film. There will he an introdudory talk on the · Rape Crisis Service and its history in the community, with emphasis on the crime of rape • locally. A self-defense demon- stration given by and for women will be scheduled for the afternoon. Relevant . reading materials ean be purchased at the training session. This initial training session will be followed up with weekly information sessions on other areas related to the crime of . rape. The Rape Crisis Service is an organization of · local women who are working towards the prevention of rape in Sehenectady. Public meetings are held once a month, Mondays,. ~ 8 p.m. at the YWCA. For more information or help, call the Rape Hotline at 346-2266. MADISON'S TYPING SERVICE • Reports • Manuscripts • The8is • Resumes Prompt Service ~ Reasonable Rates 433 Liberty St. 372-5841 Schenectady • ..

Page 12 CONCORDIENSJS, Wednesday, Jan. 14. 1976 - ' .. ~ Thurs., January 15 Photojournalists and other intere~ted people: the art department will present the JAFFE LECTURE by world renowned photographer Eugene Smith. Smith will give a slide- lecture on his photographs of Minamata, Japan, me.rcury poisoning. 4:30 P·~· SSOI6 _ Symposium on Ethics in Medicine and Technology: lecture by Dr. Ray Vickers, Professor Psychiatry at Albany . Medical 'college, on \Thanatology and Natural Philosophy.\ This is the second lecture in the two week symposium of which assistant professor of philosophy Robert Baker is one of three coordinators. Buses will leave from in front of Memori?l Chapel · at 6: 1'5 p.m. for Wiggers' Auditorium at Albany Medical College. Transportation charge approximately $1.50. Lecture will begin at 7:30 p.m. The Department of Modern Languages and Literatures presents · Professor Guy . Stem, Dean of Graduate Education and Research at the University of Cincinnati. P-rofessor Stern will speak of pre-fascism in Germany · prior to the Hitler regime and the role that literature played in dissemination and legitimizing such political beliefs among the · middle classes. This will be the first lecture in a series. 8:00 p.m. ·Strauss Lounge. Women's Week presents an Arts Display in Carnegie Hall all day. There wiJl be a Y.W.C.A. display in Strauss Lounge from 11:00 a.m. to 2:00 p.m. The Crosstown's Players Company presents Harold Pinter's The Caretaker. 8:00 p.m. Schenectady Community College. Free admission. The last showing of Gone With the Wind presented by the . film committee in SSOl6 at 7:30. Admission is 50¢. If you haven't seen it yet - be there - Aloha. \Men in the Mo~ement\ Professor Alan Brodie, 3 p.m., West College Library, Women's Week. Coffeehouse: Central ·Park Shieks, 8:30 p.m. Mother's Wine Emporium, RPI. Cabaret: A One Man Show by Irene Fornes, performed by Actor Richard Hamburger from New York City. Performances by Union Women incommemoration of Women's Week. Shows at 9 and II. Tickets for Cabaret are sold in advance at . 8:00 in Carnegie Hall $1.00 admission. Fri., January 1,6 In conjunction with Women's Week all Union Women students are invited to a cocktail party given by a group of professional women at Union. From 4:30 to 6:30 p.m. Milano Lounge, Hale House. 'Dinner and Speaker - In further conjunction with Women's Week, Paula Brownlee, next Dean of Faculty at Union Collc;:ge, will speak. Tickets must be purchased in advance at Student Activities office 370•6118. Union Students $2.00 non-$3.00. The Flying Dutchmen will skate ag~~oinst Middlebury in Achilles Rink at 8:00 p.m. WR UC will broadcast the .game. Concert: The Quartetto Beethoven Di Roma, from Jtaly: Brahms Quartet in c minor, op. 60; Schumann Quartet in E Flat, op. 47. Memorial Chapel, 8:30 p.m. admission $2.-$3.50. · Jim Bigness, folk guitarist, 9 p.m. The Outer Square, 108 Jay Street, Schenectady. 393-2998. . ·. ·. JiftJJp,e.woads,these ·are 1 think I know. ··, Flis\'lwtt!le'itrih'the·village though; :~t·stov•tml~t. hert · up .with' mow • .. '¥~ .· . Bill Staines, country singer, songwriter, 8~30 p.m. Caffe Lena, 45 Phila St., Saratoga Springs. Resewations.: 584.9789. Coffeehuuse: Central Park Shieks, 8:30, Mother's Wine Emporium, RPI. Coffeehouse: Salv'o and McGiaughin, acoustic ~uitar folkies, 8:30 p.m. in Old Chapel. 'Sat., January 17 Women's Week presents psychologist Sharon Bermon - an Assertiveness Training W orksh 0 p. 2:00 p.rn. in Hale House Lounge. The ·FJ-eshman Five goes up against Williams in basketball. Fieldhouse 6l00 p, fll. Union Varsity Basketball meets Williams under the big top in the Field House-at 8:00 p.m. Film Committee .presents Enunanuelle, rated X, in SSO 16, at 7, 9, and 11 p.m. Admission is 75¢ and ID's are required. Fox Dorm Party. Saturday night after the B-ball game at 10:00 in Fox Lounge. Munch and drink on food, punch and beer, all to the music of RUC. All Union Students and guests- welcome. Admission is free. Jim Bign~ss, folk guitarist, 9 p.m., The Outer Square, 108 Jay St., 393-1008. Chris -Holder, ·Guthrie • and American Tunes, 8:30. Union College Coffeehouse, Old Chapel. Centrlli Park Shieks, 8:30, Mot~er 1 s Wine Emporium, RPI. Bi.JI\' Staines, country singer, songwriter, 8:30 Caffe Lena, 45 Phila St., Saratoga Springs. Reservations 584-9789. Sun., Jan!Jary 18 Film Freebie presented continuously from 11:00 a,rn. to 5:00 p.m. in SS016. Women's Week. Firesticks, Boston Reality Theatre; The experiences ·of five women. Tickets .must be reserved in .admnce 370-6118, Student Acticities Office, Women's week, , 8:GO p.m. in Old chapel. Emmanuelle (X) 75¢ admission ID's required, 7, 9, and 11 p.m. SSOJ(). Bill StaiQes, Country singer, songwrit~r, 8;30 p.m. Caffe Lena, 45 Phila St., Saratoga Springs.· Reservations: 584-9789. Jimmy Heath Quartet, jaz~. 8 p.m. Ramada Inn, Free, 370~ 7151. Mon .. , January 19 Playboy Bunny, Speaker for Women's Week, 8:00 p.m. Memorial Chapel General Montebanks meeting 8:00 in Nott Memorial Theater. Everyone is invited. Symposium on Ethics in Medicine and Technology. Lecture, \The Rights of Patients\ George Annl)s J.D. MPH. Buses will leave from in front of Mem,orial Chapel at 6:15. Wi!Jgeni' Auditorium, Albany Medical College, 7:30 p.m. Tues., January 2·0 The first meeting of the Student-Filculty Bridge Club for the winter term will be held in Hale House upper Lounge. All bridge players on campus a~e invited. Any questions, call David Gordon at 377-6671. Film Committee presents Sex Madne.Ss. Plus High on the Range: a Marijuana West~rn, and . 2 Betty Boop cartoons. Rated G. 7, 9, and Jl in SS016, 50¢ admissicm. Wed., January 21 \Computerized Tomography :'n Medicine ~ .A new X~ray technique for mapping 'Internal Structures in Three Dimensions\ Dr. Lewis Edelheit, G.E. R&D Center. 4:30 with refreshments at 4:00 Room N303, Center fot Science and Engineering. Dr. Edelheit has led a team in the development of a new instrument for the early detection of breast tumors. His ta-lk will be general enough to appeal to faculty and students in several different fields. Student Forum :meeting in Fox Lounge at 8:00 p.m. AU are , invited to attend. Take interest in your government. Cllris Holder, as Woody Guthrie in \Woody Sez\ a one tnan show, 8:30 p.m. Caffe Lena, 45 Phila St., Saratoga springs. Reservatons: 584-9789. Transcendental Meditation, introductory lecture, 7:30 p.m. Strauss Lounge.~ Symposium on Ethics in Medicine and TeChnology. Lecture, \Ethics of Transplantation and Dialysis .. Judith P. Swazey Ph.D. Buses will leave from in front of Memorial chapel at 6:15, Wi,ggers• Auditorium, Albany ·Medical College, 7:30. · Attention• All Star Trek Freaks: Leonard Nimoy, \Mr. Spock and I\ 8:00 p.m, CC Theatre, Siena College. •. \' * Calendar Information must be received by Monday in the Concordiensis Office or eall Sheryl Farber at 370.6480, Please include all necessary information and a brief descriptio~. ~~ event. .I I ) ( 2 0 s F 0 F F u c A 2f c~ ye rr av sli he co

CONCORDIENS!S, Wednesday,, Jf!n. 14, 1976 ~-. --.-·---~--.,.....__ ..... ~, Financial A.ld ,\pplieations Applieations for all forms of financial · aid are now available at ·lht: Office of Student Aid. Old Gvm Hall. Students desiri.fig· renewal of aid as well as those seek.in1'! an original grant of assistance must submit apJ)Iications. In addition. to scholarships. applications must be filed for Orant~in-Aids, College Wo~k Studv, Board Jobs and Loans. Applications: for\aid must b.e submi'tted no later.than.March I. 197t>, Thank you, ATTENTION: Computer S<iie.nce. Industrial Economics. and Industrial Administration Majors - Sp~rry Univac - Th,e Roseville SoftWare Develop.ment· Center is coming to recruit on. January 28th, If you are interested in Programming or Systems Analysis. Software Language Systems and applicati\ons. sign up now in Placement Office. Peace C.orrs a.nd Vista will be recruiting on the afternoon. of February 18, all d!lY; .FebiiiiU'Y 19, and on the morning of February 20, They want individual sign- ups fo~ one hour each in the Placement Office. The· Freshman Record (Class of 1980) will be ·holding a brief organi7.ational. meeting on Mondav. ·Jan. 1.9 at 7:30 in H.umanities 016. Iivervone interest~d in working on t.he Recor.j in any capacity is urged to attend .. If you can take pictures. type. ·do .layout, wr:ite, think, etc. you are needed .. If you have no specific skills we still need you!! It: you have any problems or need further information. call Bill Rota at 346-9730 .. The ·Schenectady County Community Ambassador Project is sponsoring for the 2Rth yearanother ambassador to a foreign country. England is the COl.!ntry chosen this year. An important requirement of the program is that the student must· be available during the .~ch()ol year to show slides and talk about his/her experiences before various community groups that contrihute financially to the .rm.iect. Two students from Union. College have been chosen as ;unbassadors in the .past five years. If you are interested in finding out more about thik unusually exciting pro11ram. please contact the· Office of Student Aid, To all Seniots: If you l)a~e s'igned' up for a'} interview with Generil Eleetric. Comp•I'!Y come to ·fhe Placement Office -~nd Jill out one of their .application forms. Underwriters Laboratories have cancelled· their recruiting date on Febru~ry 5, 1~76. . Gnnd Union :has cancelled their recruiting date on March 9, 1976. burroughs. Wellcome h!!.ve changed .. their interview date. on Th!II'Sday, January 22 to a later date. Albany: Valve & Fitting Compjlny weuld like to . interView anv majors interested i.n Industrial SMes. P.l~ase come in and sign up as soon as possible a~ they will be here on Jinuary 16, 1976, U.S. Mllrine Corps. will be ~ectuiting in C'arnegie Hall on first floor on F~bruary 16, 1976 from 10:00 A.M. to 2:0()' J>.M. Prudential Insur .. nce· Company ·Please .come ih and sim .up on January 14, 1976. Thev are interested in anv major, 'but prefer· sirong backgrounds • in · Math, Computer Science and llc.Onomies. Revere CQpper and B.,ass, Inc. would like·,to. interview Liberal Arts M~.iors. Civil En!!ineering and Mechanical Engineering Majors on FebiuaJy 11, 1976. Please come in and sii;!:n up on January 6, 1976. Students interested in tutoring. ,please leave your names,:in Placement Office. There are several babysitting jobs available. If you are interested. .please come to Placement Office. World lssues is a two-year uprer- divisiml program in International Studies conducted l>y t:he :Experiment in International Living. It is designed for students who wish to spend the last two years of colle?;e spec.i!llizi.ng in environmental stuc!ics. porulation and family plal)ning. peace studies and economic develo,pmeht. T.wo semesters are spent in active field work;,abroad or in a I ;- TO DAY'S CIGISIDBI PUZLB . .,AC.IJ(,)S$ . . .1 .AS$igns i actors 6 Loved one 10 Ford's title: Abbr. 14 \Room •• ··- Top\ 1s· \He~s some- thing -···1\ 16 Branches 17 Raised with a lever 18 cu.Un 19 Esteem 20 Postal ser- vice: 2 words 22 Having notched pro- jections 24 Rectangular · piers 26 Approached 27 Harassment 30 tit for-·· 31 Swimmers' platform 32 Hearing or- gan$:2 words 37 Ottawa's prov. 38 Vultures 40 Honev-·· 41 Em1tsforce- · fully 43 Sheep's cry 44 i;ktremity 45 Deliverers 48 E'xact ietaiia- ·tion , 5l Watchman 52 Turn awry 54 Edible bi- valve mol- ll!sks 58, Quote 59 Neighbor of Turkey 61 Musical passage 62 L.atin wings 63 Ekpos, e.g. 64 Murder:. ~lang 65 Secluded valley, 66 Objects of faith 67 CGSunits DOWN 1 Spanish cloak 2 Italian town · 3 Moveabout actively 4 \TwoYears before.··· ....... '~ 5 Autos 6 Proclaiming 7 Eng. linear measure 8 \No return\ waming:2 words 9 Contrite person The a~.swer to this~ puzzle will he in next week's Concordiensis. 10 Divide pro· pprtionally 11 Eleetronic device 12 Be theatrical 13 Fathered 21 labor union~ Abbr. 23 Erects 25 Transmitters 27 Incitement 28 Raja's wife 29 Newts 33 Rocket. sec- tions: 2 words 34 Showing' skill 35 Hind part 36 Radios, e.g. 38 African. republic 39 Issuing com- mands 42 Fashionable 43 Like a dair-y product 46 Kind of bean 47 Perverse 48 City in Nim- rod'sking- dom:Var. 49 Sheer fabric 50 Inner: Anat. 53 Small group 55, Alaskan governor 56 Stratagem 57 Observes 60 Along with different U.S. locatio.n. The remaining two semesters are conducted at the School for International Training in Brattleboro. Vermont. Fpr .further information. please contact the Placement and Career Counseling Office. Scholarships 11nd FellowsiJips: The University of Toronto is offer.ing 50 C'onnau~tht Scholarships to outstanding ,graduate students entering the first year of a continuing research-oriented' degree ,program. Althou!!h preference will ·be given to students entering doctoral programs. consideration will he given to first vear master's students who intend subsequently to continue in a doctoral research program. These ene-year (12 months) scholarshirs have a vl!lue ·of $5.000.00. Application ·to the graduate studies department of the University of Toronto automaticaijy offers students eligibility for the Connaught Scholarshi[l. Apptication deadline: February 1', 1976. The Stevens Institute of Technology in Hohoken. New Jersey is offering Robert Crooks Stanley graduate fellowships for full-time graduate study in th~ physical sciences, mathematics and engineering. Stanlev fellows mav work toward master's degree. or Doctor · <lf. 'Philosophy Degree . The award is open to any qt1alified ·person· who ·has a baccalaureate de(!ree. Application deadline: February 15. For further infoftnation please contact the Placement and Career Counseling Office. Fox Dorm :pa.rty - Saturday night. January 17. JO:OO p.m. after .the basketball game in Fox Lounge. Beer-punch- munchies-music. All are welcome. Part-Time Jobs: The Placement Office has information on part-time jobs -on and off campus. Stop in and ask at the Plac;e.ment Office. Last Call for maga7.ines and 2nd and 3rd class mail that arrived over vacation. This mail cqn be picked up Monday. Wednesdav and Fridav from I :30-3:30 p;m .. and. Tuesday and Thursday from 10:30-ll :25 a.m. The mail will be ht:ld through the week of Monday. January 1·2. Anv student wishing to work on the Com.;,ittee on Traffic and Pets should ;contact Audrey K up chan. 346-9227. by Monday. January 19. Dog owners are especially welCome! Reminder: All dogs belonging to students must be regi~tered with the Securitv Office. Infraction of this rule .results in a $100 fine. ' Risk Tournament: T~ be co-sponsored bv the Cabaret and When Diplomacy Fails: Tuesdav. Januarv 20 at 8:00 p.m. in the Caharet · for Gaine Night. A 50cr admission fe~ will he charged and a cash pri7e will .go to the winners. Bring your friends. brin!! your enemies. bring your dreqms of empires, RUT COME. Hillel will hold Friday night· services at 5:00 p.m. in Davidson Lounge. All are invited. The table tennis club will have a meeting on Thursday. January 15 at 8 p.m. in the Strauss lounge. All interested students are urged to attend. For f!lrther information. contact Andy Lee at 346-9658. The Department of American Studies will be presentiil!! three films by John Ford on the next three consecutive Fridays. This Friday. January 16. in.SS 016 at8:00 p.m .. there 'will be a showing of Stagecoach. Admission is free. Women's Caucus· Meeting: A Continuation: discussion of the effects and ramifications of Women's Week. All invited to attend. Tues .. Jan. 20th 7 p.m. 201 Carnegie. New Citizen Newspaper: Is looking for a student who would like some eXperience work in!! on an· aspects of a newspaper: re,portin!!. editing. paste-up. layout. etc.: and also a student who would be interested in the advertising and soliciting of this paper. Please call Mr. Carl Saindon for further info=ation on 377-5524. Long Island University School of B11sine8s Administration, Brooklyn, New York will be coming to Cnion on Monday. Januarv 26.. 1976 to interview students. Come to the Placement Office to sign up as soon as ,possible if you are interested. Attention Campus -Community Union Book will hold a meeting on Monday. January 19, 1976 at 9:00 p.m. in the Union Book Office in Carnegie Hall. The office is on the thiQ! floor. Be there - Aloha. Engineers: General Electric is sending an additional Recruiter for direct-hire jobs in Researc-.,- Development & Design. Limited numher of jobs ...... Not traini~g program. Fashion Fellowships at Tobe·Cobum Tobe-Coburn. a New 'Vork Citv school of fashion retailing and promoiion will offer Fashion Fellowships to senior men and women graduating from four-year colleges. Each award is worth $2.200.00. covering full tuition c.ost for the one-year pro!!ram. Anyone interested in t.he fellnwship awards can obtain application fmms from ·the Office of Placement and Career ·Counseling. New York State exams are to .be given on Fellruarv 16. 1976. If vou are interested. application~ must be postmarked no later than January 26. 1976. for the following ioh•. Please apply at.Piacement Office. Correction. Officers Highway Reports and Inventory· Assistant Land Survevor Psvchiatric Social Worker Transmission Facilities Analyst N ali(Jnal Park Service Applications for jobs as park technician. park aid and maintenance positions in any of 31 National Parle; in Maine. New Hampshire. Mass.. Rhode. Island, New York. New'Jersey must be i~ by February 15. Applications in Placement Office. I . ATTENTION!!! If you think you can write jokes for a new area comic who is just starting out in the busi'ness. call this number (377-9060) and ask for Ted. Thank you. Help JIMMY CARTER win the New York State Democratic Presidential primary. Contact Dave Coleman at 346- 0226. ROOMMATE WANTED: One block from the college. Furnished. Very close to the market. laundry, post office. bank. New anli clean. C'all 382-8560 or 372-8841. Ask for Alev.. If I'm not in. leave your telephone nutn her. RIDE WANTED to Geneseo, NY (or near Rochester, NY)· Jan. 30. Friday afternoon. Will share driving and expenses. CaH Neil at 370-6600. RIDE NEEDED to Springfield. Mass. Friday. Jan. 16. Will share expenses. Call Paul at 393-8184. RIDERS WANTED to Buffalo, NY Jan. 16-18th. Will stop in Syracuse and Rochester. Leaving around noon the 16th. Contact Steve. 215 Davidson at 346-9342. RIDE WANTED: to Pittsburgh or in that direction. Harrisburg. Scr~nton; anywhere in west Pennsylvania. A ride to New York might suffice s.o1 can get a bus. Would like to leave Thursdav or Fridav. Jan. 28-29. Contact Arthur Mazer. 224- West at 346- 9369. RID.E WANTED: Friday. Feb. 6 after 12:20 to Long Island. or New York City. Will share expenses. Call. Pete. 359 Davidson at 370-6579. Are you tired of being cold? Heading south this weekend (Jan. J6cJ8th)? Well. if yoQ are~ and intend to go by Exit ll (NYACK) on the NYS Thruway. how about giving little ol' free7ing me a ride? I'm willing to share expenses. Call Pat at 370•6434. ·FOR SALE BIG SALE ON TURNTABLES! We have. in stock. one DUAL and one L.ENCO L-85 turntable. List prices: DUAL. - $189.95: Selling at these prices: DUAL. - $120 (or best offer): LENCO - $160 (or best offer). We will dicker. Call soon ... ask for Jim at 346-9582. FOR SALE: Spaulding tennis racquet: \Pancho Gon1ales\ series. Recently restrung. Co~es with jacket and wooden press. $8. See Nate. 316 Davidson or call 370-6640. L.UIGI'S RESTAURANT SPECIAUZING IN Italian - American Food '1125 BARRETT ST. so&IECTADY 016-9744 ·~j()y Sizzling S~eaks ont! Chops Vilit Our Cockt~IIBIJr . . Page 13 FOR SALE: Texas Instruments SR-I! (electronic slide rule calculator). One-year- old. excellent condition: comes with box. adarnoticharger.. caTryi·ng case and instruction bo6klet. $50. Contact Chris Vilardi. 302 McKean at 346-9303. STEREO EQUIPMENT FOR SALE: One pair speakers 10\ 3-way acoustic suspension !home built): Amplifier Heathkitt AAI214 15 watt rmslchannel. Will drive speakers in a good-si1ed room: SONY cassette recorder/ player with noise- reduction system and counter. Buy together or separately. Call 372-3551. BOOKS FOR SAI;E: Physics !1, 13 for Biology majors: Sociology lO-Dr. Schneller: Comp Ed 57 · The Nature of Mathematics. C'all Mary or Holly at 393- 9740. BOOKS FOR SALE: Economics !0 with Prof. Revnolds. Principles of Macroeconoii.ics (MansCield) $2: Macroeconomics (Reynolds • $3.50. FE 22 · lntro Sociol·ogy 10 with Prof. Weiner. Tally's Comer (L.eibow) • $1.50: Sex, Gender and Society • $·1.50: The Uses of Disorder - $1: Deviants - $1.50. Contact Terry. ll2 Webster House at 370-6694. BOOKS FOR SALE: Spani~h II Espanol a lo Vivo · $3.50: Spanish 12 - Lengua y lectura - $3.50: Spanish- English' English-Spanish dictionary • $4. Bio 14 text - $10. Contact Gwen. 309 West. FOR SALE: Math · College Calculus witll. Analytic Geometry. Political Science · The Learning of Political l'ehavior; Political Socialization; Political Learning, Political Choice and Democratic Citizenship; Children and Politics. Contact Nate. 316 Davidson at 370~6640. NO MARKS. PERISNALS· Do vou know this man? Robert E. Ruggeri. alias \Sleaze Marty - The Man With The Golden Tongue\ is lookin!! for young girls to perform his magic. He can be found nightly in the Rathskeller and speciali7es in s-m. Bring your own whip. CNION COll.EGF S~h~t~~t>mfy, N.V. 1 :>JOB' STUnr.m ~n~tfrtri¢...1\\iKiN. c-aRo ~e:,j~ :~r,fWO..i~ 11;!(~~~d ~:n~ '<'M~l!!!¢t< :\\:\ p~'t'!O~ll! \!:l!:'rr. • ~Ji.GQ~.$: ~,.- ~.-~~~~R -r t)Q: :r ~ . 't;t r~ l~m'Cf. atnt~ .. ls~~tl'd , This is the \Everything\ Page; a new feature of CONCORDIENSIS which simultaneously captures the flavor of BLITHER and the pragmatism of a classified ad~ section. As a courtesy to the Union College student population at large, this first issue of CONCORDY published a representative sampling of several student- posted notices. Rides and Riders Wanted, For Sale, and Apartments for Lease advertisements were printed gratis for promotional reasons. After this issue, however, there will be the nominal charge of one dollar per thirty words for the above-mentioned notices. Personals and Lost and Found items will be published free of charge. If you wish to submit any material which conforms to the format of the classifieds page, simply slip it under the Concordy Office door (third floor Carnegie) or leave it with Todd Miller at 224 West. Thank you. FOR. LIQUOR AND WINE Try Jdce Lipstein's 464 State Street FR4-1888

Page14 - ' CONCORDlENSlS, Wednestlay. Jam 14, 1976 ·sports : \·- '··,.., •' .. by CHARLIE FLANAGAN People around the confines of this fine institution are probably wondering what is going on with the hockey team's record. One moming the paper says Union has lost only one game, (in the Merrimack tournament to Merrimack 5-I), while the next day the loss column has been increased up to as many as three. To make a long story short, -union used an ineligible player in Instead of acting as the goveming body as it should have done, the E.C.A.C. committee took a back seat in the passenger car, and permitted phone calls and letters suggesting forfeiture on the part of Union to flow to both Cortland and Ottawa. This procedure by the so called heads of sports was the wrong move. The E.C.A.C. should have stepped in and enforced the rule and closed the case. ·- not mean a great deal in the final outcome of the one sided victoty. · (Union won 14-4). But the point is that Union was ia direct violation of a rule by usi .. a certain player. The E.C.A.C~ committee is to blame for the havoc created in the <}ftermath of the Cortland game. The E.C.A.C •. two encounters with SUNY at Cortland and the University of Ottawa. The rule governing the use of an ineligible distinctly states on pl;lge 24 of the manual entitled Eastern College Athletic Conference Regulations 197 4 that ••when a member institution has participated an ineligible player on a team sponsored by that institution's intercollegiate athletic department, said institution m~st automatically forfeit all victories gained, including E.C.A.C. and non- E.C.A.C. games in which the ineligible -player --participates.\ Instead, a sour taste of poor or bush sportsmanship was left in \the parched mouths of many. The Cortland A.D. originally .refused to accept the forteitui:e; but for some unknown reason this gentleman was replaced as the New Year came around. His successor viewed tlie matter in a different .light. Be accepted the forfeiture. To .. many connect.rtd with any knowledge of seorts this can be seen as the wroltg '\nove o-n the part of Cortland. Even to those die hards who witnessed the man-handling of Cortland by the flying Dutchmen would admit that the use of this one player did --srroDld have immediately taken notice of this violation and noe permitted a \bargaining\ to take place between Hnion, Cortland and Ottawa. Beca1.1se of theil shirking of responsibility the E.C.A.C. have led many a spectator to believe that the whole blame lies in Cortland 1 s lap. It does not and I just hope thlt when Cortland ventures to Achilles Rink later on in the Rookie ski member practices some fancy moves .olf his hom~ toseason this whole absurd issue will have been swept from the minds of anyone involved in the hockey situation. If you break a rule you have to pay the consequences. It does not matter what two teams are involved. 11 is .not the other guy's fault for something you did. Mermen Preview by 1\:ElTH JACOJJSON Onion's swimmers l!re back in the water again and raring to go. Due to foul-ups in the mechanical d~partment, ·the Foote pool was Indoor Legmen Debut closed until the end of October - preventing the mermen firom getting their usual two months of pre-season practke. To On January 23, the Union College Indoor Track Team will have its first meet of the season. Captain Dave Plumer believes that the prospects ·for a successful season are very good. Indeed, with a number of standouts, and with depth provided by a large group of freshmen, Union's cbaJM:es for a victory an= by JEFF ·SCHEININGER promising. Events which the Legmen expect to do well in are: the mile run with Steve Jones, pole vaulting with Dave Ricks leading a number of good freshmen, and upper· classmtnt', hurdles with freShman Kevin Scheurer, the high jump with Dave Plumer, compen8$te, Coach Magee's ~oys, under the leadership: of team- sprinting led by M~lt Herrin~, and captain .. · Tom -Richardson, finall~ the two mile relay. Ot. he. r_ f. 11 . d _ _ .·· f _ · · · 1 d h 1 . · . - · _ o owe a program o runnm,g: events me u e t . e 'bng JUmp, tn .· ,·. d · · • ht l'f• · ·- th _ ·. b. - . •. · · · h i1 - · . 6 00- ·\an .-we1g - 1 .mg · roug ou. · JUmp, s ot put, two m1 e run,-. . S t be d . - -t f Oct· b · d d , · 1 · ... · 1 . · ep em . r an mos o . . o er; yar run, an one m1 ere ay. · ff' . - 1 · t' b · The team, and! its coach Ken . · 0 rcta prac tee ega.n · on Michaelson, are looking forward Nove~be,~ first ... to the season and are hoping for -SWimmmg up to 6500 yards the following of Union's each . afternoon, the team's first vociferous stUdent body. practices were long. and hard. · Many newcm:ners qutt, .but to the amazement of the team's veterans, several girls (Caren Cahill, Judy Haddad, and Claire Kennedy), survived the first months of practice and have returned fc;tr this January's com-petit•ion. Cbristmas vacation brought an unfortunate break in the practice lchedule, but the mermen were back early in an attempt to make up fqr lost time. During the past two weeks the intensity of practices have been on the increase. On the whole, Union's swimmers look stronger than in previous years. Senior captain, and holder of the 200-yard backstroke record, Tom Richardson appears bett~r than . I • ever. Veteran juniors Keith Jacobson .a,nd Irving Kaufman, both frees~ylers, are expected to provide, as they have in previous seasons, depjh to the expanding team. Throughout the p~st, sopbomores have provided Union sw.imming ··with most .of its strength: this year is no exception. Jirn LQwe, record holder in the· . I(}O:•yatd . breaststro:tce and - Union~s only entry in the NCAA . Division HI cli_~ml!ion~hi~~ .l~st . year, -diligenf ·brea$tstroker · .J~d · Corbett, stilr<ty· backstroker Tom Burgess, and dynamo Nick Gassaway, holder ofthe 200-yard · butterfly and .lOOO-ya.rd freestyle records, all hope to lead the team to a successful season. Finally,. for tlte first time in many years, Union has a stmng crQp of freshmen. Headed qy .: , Doug Richardson, Tom's younger brother and a tough distance freesty·ler, newcomers Dave .Rosenthal -'(backstroke), Barry Simons (breaststroke · and freestyle),·· Martin King, Steve Waldman (breaststroke), and Eric Goidel (freestyle) are expected to give depth, quality and new vigor to the Union mermen. In the diving events, -veteran and hardy competitor Eva Schmeckenbecker is expected to contjnue her long list of wins during her final year of college. Union's swimmers host Trinity College in theit opening meet of the season on January 28.- . ---~ .. C.optmued from :.Page 9 The ethics of fetal research will 1M llloomrosm, Rich Strtusmarr, and Bob W~rb~r prepare for class while at the Un~ity of .. ,, in En~land; ~ be discussed on JanuarY;. 26 at 2:30 p.m. by a panel of professors including Rolf Ahlers, Chairman of the Department of Philosophy and Religion at Russell Sage,' Grace Wolf1 M.D.. Associate Professor of Pediatrics, AMC, Katherine Katz, Professor, Albany Law School, Paul Ramsey, Professor oLReligion at Eco Club For01ed An organization · designed to bring programs, speakers, etc. of current economic interest to the Union College Campus is presently being formed. The variation in the programs will erange from lecture to discussion, with active interaction between guest speakers, the faculty; and students. The topics Will concentrate on current issues of broad public interest. For example, possibilities will include the causes and effects of the recent recession, property taxes and income distribution, a comparison of the economic platforms of the major Presidential candidates, the stock market, etc. Your support for this orga'nization is needed. If your interest ranges from participating in discussions to Working on the organizational matters, please so indicate by signing one of the petitions located in the mailroom or around the Department of Economics offices. If there are any questions, see Don Milder (Bo:x 345) or Chris smith. Princeton University and author of the boo1( -·The- Patten(- as Person, and Patricia Elliston. Professor Rarnsey will go on to discussing professional and personal conscience as involvea in abortion at 7:30 that same eVening. J. The symposium will conclude on January 27 and 28 with a futuristic look at biomedical ethics and research. Albert Flores, assistant Professor of Philosophy at RPI, will be discussing the moral and ethical considerations of psychosurgery, the surgical modification. Qf the functionings of tp~ brain (1:30, January 27). T~!>HJ.!a. Pow ledge, Ph.D,, at the Research Association for Genetics, Institute of SocietY, Ethics,' and the _Life Sciences, Hastings-On-:l:ludson, New York, will be speaking on future. possibilities of genetic technology in the creation of brain dead humans· in laboratories purely for. · medical researeh and the. conseq1,1ent moral issues 'that such technology will breed. All lectures are open to all Union students. Buses will be available from Old Chapel, leaving at 6: l.S for aU evening sessions, All lectUres are free to the Union C()~murtity. ' ] l t ' e c

I l ' I 1. - CONCORDIENSIS, Wednesday, Jan. 14; 1976 Page 15 ~---:.....-... .. -·<:c-'-::--.-~\''--:: .. -.....,-..,-~-~.....,,...--~,.....~.,.._.- ...... ...,....,..... ...... ,_,,..._,..,.~----..,_.-..,.__.,.--..----------..,..------------------------ Pete Me(Jia goes up and over a distraught Hartwicker who can only wave \(hello.\ Note \Stretch\ M(lrtin looking on in awe- this seemed to be his best effort ofthe eve'}ing. 1 Martin. the supposed s-hake and hake artist of Jersey City, and did some wheeling and dealing on his own accord, outscoring Stretch twenty-two to six. Joel Fisher. obviously psyched by the hush move. canned ten points himself. whHe continually vacuuming the boards clean. The lead had extended to eleven. 65·54. when the Hartwick coach,exploded at a refs call. He collared two technical· fouls, one. flagrant. and was banished from the, game. Kelly successfully converted the five tosses, two regular and the three technicals, upping the lead -to an insurmountable sixteen. In the end words were not necessary. The dunk said it all. It was not the act of a mocking victor. eager to. add fuel to the flame of an opponen,t's_ humiliation. No, as Roger Symonette effortlessly t-ook flight, sailed across the lane and slammed the ball down through the hoop, granting Union its final margin of victory, three thousand screaming spectators sensed something else. As feet stomped, palms slapped and Scanlon smirked. everyone re11lized they had just witnessed tlte perfect conclusion to a perfect game, HOCKEY VOCABULARY BACK CHECKING-: To ch~l! an op- ponent' in· yo(lr\ defend[ng zone. · · · BOARD CHECKING - To ride or drive an opponent into the dasher boards. Illegal and calls for penalty. BODY CHECK-To use your body to block or hit an opponent. Legal when ·he has possession of the puck or was last player to have toUched it. CHARGING - If more than three strides are taken before checking an opponent it constitutes charg- ing. Illegal and calls -for penalty. BUTT-ENDING:.-To hit an opponent with the end of the stick farthest from the blade. Illegal and calls for .penalty. CROSS CHECKING- To hit an op· ponent with both hands on the stick and no part of the stick on the ice. Calls for a penalty; ELBOWING- Hitting an opponent with the elbow. Illegal and calls for a penalty. ... FACE·OFF---The dropping of a puck between one player from each team to start play. (It is to hockey what the Jump ball is to basketball.) FIGHTING-To .engage. in fisticuffs. Illegal and calls for a major penalty. FORE CHECKING - Checking the opponent in his own zone. FREEZING THE PUCK-Pinning the pUck against the boards with either your skate or stick. HAT TRICK ..... Three. (or more) goals by a single player in a game. HIGH STICKING-Tt)e carrying of the stick above shoulder level. This is always illegal. If s.tick is used in this manner against an opponent it calls for a fac~·off. No goal can be scored wi~h a high stick and high sticking always results in face·off. HOLDING-:To use your hands on an opponent (or his equipment.) Illegal and calls for a penalty. HOOKING--To impede an opponent with the blade of your stick. Illegal and calls for a pen11lty. ICING THE PUCK .._ Shooting the pucl< from behind the center red line <~cross the opponent's red line. Legal only -when you are at lower numerical strength than opponent; otherwise a face-off is called deep in your own zone. INTERFERENCE _, Body contact with an opponent not in possession of the puck (or the last man to have touched the puck.) Also called for knocl<ing an opponent's fallen stick out of his reach. Illegal and calls for penalty. MAJOR PENALTY - A five·minute penalty. T.UESDAYS MATCH PENALTY-Suspension for balance -of· the game. t MINOR PENALTY- A two-minute - penalty. MISCONDUCT PENALTY - A 10- mlnute penalty against the indi· vidual, not the team. A substitute is permitted. Called for lnsubordi· nation or when a player incurs a seconcj major penalty in a game. OFF-SIDES - Called when an at- tacking piayer precedes the puck across the opponents' blue. tine. Illegal and calls for a face·off. OFF-SIDE PAS5-Called when puck is passed to teammate across two or more lines. Illegal and calls for face-off from point where ·pass originated. POWER PLAY-An all out attempt to score (with man-power advan· tage). Team usually uses four for- wards and one defenseman in this situation. ROUGHING - Minor fisticuffs or shoving. Illegal and calls for a minor penalty. SLASHING-To swing stick at an opponent. lllegat and calls for a pen- alty {even .if contact is riot made). SPEARING- To use stick as one would a spear. Illegal and calls far major 'Penalty. Karate Continued ~rom Page 16 eligible to enter the ·contest. Hopefully these measures will eliminate street fighters and book learners who know little of Karate as .an art. Anyone interested in participating in and organizing a tournament should contact Bob Driscoll at his office in the gym at 3 70-6119, or Jeff Luck in 206 Webster House at 346-9426, and leave his or her name and phone number before January 20, 1976. Any and all ranks are needed to make this tournament a success, Especially needed ate any higher belts (brown or black) interested in officiating.. or. judging. Even students with no tournament fighting or Kata experience are needed. Pa1tioipants will compete against on:Jy people of similar status. There is no need to fear injury or humiliation. It should prove to be an enjoyable time and a . )earning experience for all inv.i'ilved, . :-:'~~ . . .. : sports Union Matmen at 6- l by NEAL SCHWARTZ Union's _wrestling team holds ati1tmpressive 6-1 record under the coaching of Bruce Freeman, a 22-year-old fifth • year undergraduate. Union's matmen started off the season with four quick wins. The first win was a pleasant 24-17 upset over Cornell. The 2nd, 3rd, and 4th wins came over Albany, R.P.I. and Oneonta with respective scores of J9 .. JO, 40-3 artd 39~9. Last Saturday in a quadrangular meet hosted at Cortland, the Dutchmen suffered their first loss to Cortland, 26-16, but picked up two wins with scores of 30-9 and 38-18 over Morgan State and Geneseo. Kevin Hallenback at 126 pounds, J.im Sutton at 150 pounds, and Mike Paquette at 167 pounds remain undefeated. Hallenback, with a 6-0-l record, had a tough 1-1 draw with John Ciotoli of Cortland. Ciotoli, a 197~ New York Intersectional Champion was 8-0 entering the bout. Co-(!aptain Tom Everett .posted a 6-4 win over Cortland's Rory Whipple in the 158 pound class last Saturday. Whipple placed · second in the New York State College Championships and won the SUNY AC crown last year. Mike Paquette tied Rick Armstrong of Cortland with a 5-5 score. Armstrong won the New IQtramurals For any information concerning female or male intramural sport.s . for this winter term, please see Bob Driscoll in the gym, or call him at 370-6H9. Skiing , by PETER PARKER The Union College Ski Team has a schedule of six meets, including competition against Cortland, Army, Cornell, Syracuse U., Alfred, Colgate, Clarkson, RPJ, Paul Smiths, Buffalo and Harper. The first meet will be held January 31- F ebruary 1, I 976, and will be hosted by Army at West Point. The events at each meet will include cross~ountry skiing, . jumping, and alpine events in slalom and giant slalom. Most of the team members compete in at least three of the four events. Regular training sessions are supplemented by skiing on Tuesday nights at West Mountain. Team members are: Peter Parker, Tom Karis (captain), Parker Antin, Lincoln Walworth, Mark M~sey, Jim Boyer, Larry Fein, Tom Merten, Bill Wade, Tom Howell, Ted Leisenring (captain), Daniel Robbins, Dave Hardman (captain), Mike Mclnery, Matt Nagorsky, Marty Chader, Al Hertzberg, Jeff Kaplan, Paul Markessinis and Tom Kistler. The Ski Team also operates the Union College Ski Club. There are sixty students who have signed up fot the five Tuesd~y evening trips to West Mountain. The Ski Club packaie includes lift ticket and bus fare (also rentals and lessons if the student desire11). Any students wanting to go skiing for just one night may pay a $3.00 bus fare, and ride wit~ the Ski Club, paying the full price for the evening lift ticket. Buses leave frotn the C\ promptly at 5:00 p.m. • -. York State title as a senior in high school. · Jim Sutton, at 6-0-0, is the only . wrestler on the squad to post a perfect recont. The only points he has given to an opponent were to Cortland's Rosati whom he defeated 3-2. Union lost two of its heavyweight men over the Christmas break in Robin Bennett and Randy Balcolm. This created a vacancy in the heavy- weight class and the option of forfeiture or the necessary reshuffling of the line-up in moving Josh Salzman and Dan Tannenbaum up one weight class each. The consequences of this weakness were present in the lone loss to Cortland. · Bruce Freeman, in bringing the team to a 6-1 record, attributes the early success to one of the best teams in recent years, the recruiting of Gale Knull and the fine physical condition of the team. Freeman, now acting as coach, finished as a wrestler with a Il-l dual record at 126 lbs. last year, and he also finished second in N.Y. State. The matmen of Union meet at St. Lawrence this Saturday and oppose St. Lawrence as well as Pottsdam State and Albany State. This .poses to be a tough meet as well as the one Tuesday, January 20 against Springyeld and Dartmouth. STATS UNION 31J, MORGAN STAT.E 9 118-Whlte (MS) dec. Edgley, 14-9. 126--Hallenbeck (U I won by forfeit. ~-34-Dagastl~ (U) dec. _Sammervllle, 142-Bonnen (MS) dec. Redder, 7-2. 150-Sutton (Ul dec. Jackson, 2.0. 158-Everett (U) dec. Spraul! ~-3. 167-Paquette (Ul dec. Frazier, 9·2. 177-Salzmann (U) pinned _Henderson, 3:44. . 190-Ciarke (MS) dec. Tannenbaum IU). 6-.C. • Hwt.-Karatawskl CU> wan by forfeit. UNION 31, Gf;NESEO St. 15 1111-DeBiois <Ul dee. Golembeski, 9·1. 126--Hallenbeck (U( pinned Janowsky. 1:~9. 134-DagosllliO CUl won by forefelt. 142-Edgley !Ul won by forfeit. 150-Nettleton. (G) pinned Redder, 5:12. !58-Everett CU) dec. Lembo, 13-1. 167-Paquetta CU> pinned Jaskowiak, ~- . 177-Salzmann CUI pinned Pezzlmenti, 3:34. . 190-Keyser CGl dec. Tannenbaum, 11-.c. Hwt.-Murphy (G) won &y'forfeit. CORTlAND 2ft UNION 16 1111-Edaley CUl won by forfeit. . 126-Halienbeck CU) drew with Clotoll, 1-1. 134-Rossi CCI dec. ·Dagostino, 10-o. 142-Meldrln (C) dec. Redder, 8·1. 150-Sutton CUI dec. Rosati, 3·2: !58-Everett CUI dec. Whipple, ~-.c.· 167-Paquette (U) drew with Rick Armstrong, 5·5. ·- · 177-Lewls (C) pinned Felker, :56. 190--Hedges (C) dec. Salzmann, 7'4. Hwt.-Rasbeck (C) pinned ,Tannen· baum, 5:30. . UNION u. CORNELL 17 fl&-Richter CCI plnne<l cdolay, 3,04. 126-Hallenbeck (U.) dec. Kotnel, 14-7. 134-Dieksteln (C) dec. Dagostino. 7·5. 142-Redder (Ul dec. Young, 9·1. . · 150-Sulton IV'l pinned Grote. 7:01. 158-Everett (U] drew Kupsky. 14·14. 167-Paquette !Ul dec. Palladino. 7-6. 177-Salzmann !Ul dec:. Connick. 11·7. 190--Lawrence CCI pinned Karwatowskl, 3:07. ' Heo)vywelght-Bennelt (U) dec. Murr~y. H .

Page 16 --·-···-· -· .. ----------------·------~~·-- ... -·--,_...... .. - ....... -~ .. --· --·-. ----··~ ......... ---~--..----- ............... ------------..:....------------..,;.;...,.._;;;~- Garnet Hoop Rebounds .by BILL HENSON The word<> of wa rnin)! had Inn)! heen ~cattered. the cushions of cxcuo.;eo.; widely· hroadca.;t to \often the him~ of possihle defeat M. lhe Union fans exited into the hitter Januar:- wid. saddened h\ defeat. hut heartened h~· a n:iuv~nated (i<nnet \lJuad and thir-.tinl,! f\H · triumph 0\er Alhany State the fNIIowing ni!!ht in the consolation battle. They were not disappointed. After playing even for the first ten minutes Union broke it open and ~imply hlew the Great Danes out of the game. The reserves. on the floor m~1ch of the contest. effeetivelv maintained the wide \Second-ranked. in the state. conquernro.; of seven straight. owners of a mammnt:h front line averaging 6' 7'' per man. super tnu)!h under pressure and blessed with a potential top-round N.R.A. draft pick.\ And as they confidentlv . glided through warm ups. d wa rfi ng their wemingly pint-sin•d opponents at the opposite end of the floor. margin of victory. l n the nine the ominous sounds of o'clock clash Siena coasted to an eas_v conquest of R. P. I.. lea vi no \kepticism seemed destined to be .., realiled. many a spectator with the But within two hours realitation that contrary to the conqueror became victim. tournament program. the finals unranked toppled top-rated. had been held Saturday not poised lost their cool. mammoth Sunday and that the lJ nion shrunk to midget. pro prospect Quintet. after a shaky h~ginning. was relegated to the bushes and had finally found themselves. the Union College Basketball But three days later team handily defeated The uncertainty sprung anew. The Hartwick Warriors 87-75. In the Dutchmen had suffered another process they also convincingly defeat. t·his time at the hands of vanquished the many doubts that Central Connecticut State had plagued their numerous College. on the Garnet schedule followers since the advent of the for the first time this year. Not 1975-76 season. only the fact of defeat itself but Few times in the Walters- the final score. 94-91. incited the Scanlon era of Union basketball renewed questioning. \Sure had the fans been so confused Central Connecticut was good d d r 1 · h. h (they beat Bridgeport) but 94 an possesse so ttl e m w IC ~p- oints? Where had the defense to base their h,gop judgements and expectations on as they did ·disappeared to? Was the loss of last Saturday evening filing into two top reserve guards (who left Memorial Fieldhouse. The team's the team for personal reasons) record stood at a middling three !hat costly?\ Finally an~. most and three. While at times they tm~ortan.tly they aske?~; Could displayed flashes of th~.~ Umon wm the.bJg ones. aggressive. hustling team defens'e· Saturday Night recognized as Union's own and ;:.., Would Tell All often exhibited a patient, fast- !!§As the teams lined up ft)r the moving attack that netted close- flpening tap this pressing doubt range hoops. only once did they concerned all present. but seemed combine the two long enough to to affect the Union players, the gain a victory over a relatively only ones able to rectify the talented and c.ompetitive situation, the most, and in opponent. particular. if action is an Coming into the Capital indicator of emotion. the senior District Christmas Tournament. tri-captains, John Denio, Joel January 3rd and 4th. the Garnet Fisher and Steve Kelly. sported a two and one record. From the outset the Dutchmen hardly indicative of their quality showed their aggressiveness as of play. They appeared sluggish Mike Smith. starting for the first in victory and miserable in time. hustled to capture the loose defeat. Most significantly and in center tap. But desire doesn't put a year where it is so sorely the ball in the hoop as the Garnet needed, they lacked the intensity found themselves early victims of and competetiveness so a cold shooting touch. characteristic of recent Union Fortunatelv. Hartwick also hoop teams. encountered difficulty finding the So it came as no surprise when range. But it seemed only a the Garnet received third seeding matter of time before the in the tourney behind Siena and Hartwick height advantage Albany State and ahead only of would take its toll on their R.P.I. Still a highly partisan shorter opponents. Instead Union crowd of 4,000, eager for Union. in the name of Pete an upset and rejecting the Meola. reversed this logic. Pete. Dutchmen's previous play as rushing in from the foul line. typic;al. jammed into the snatched an offensive rebound Fieldhouse Saturday evening for from his taller rivals. put the ball the opening round. hack up and scored. Gary . Utili7ing consistent pressure Borgese quickly added two ctfense and discarding one-on- outside jumpers. awarding Union. one offense for a more effective a seven point lead. team game Union stiffly Then smack! Center AI Walker challenged the tall talented lay outstretched on the court. Indians of Siena. With less than clutching his throat. He had been ten minutes remaining in the smashed with a forea.rm bv ~ontest Union. sparked by Gary Warrior. Gary Robinson wh~ 8orgese reeled off three strai.ght was immediately ejected. The buckets to forge ahead S 1-50. Dutchmen needed no more, The crowd shouted ecstatically, The three captains assumed hoping to maintain the permanent control. John Denio, momentum. But Siena, led by providing crucial playmaking Steve Walters artd exploiting ability. consistently turned the their decided height advantage, imposing Hartwick zone into a countered with seven points of sieye with pinpoint passing and their own to capture a lead they successful long-range shooting. never relinquished. the final tally Steve Kelly handcuffed Stretch sranting Siena victorv bv fiv~; 69- Continued on Page 15 One of Sa/ern's finest gets caught up in the game. The remainder ofthis .fine fellow's team followed· suit. Achilles Heroes Slide On The Union Hockey Team raised its record t\o 6-2 Friday night with an jl-l thrashing of highly touted · University of Buffalo. ln a game which Coach Ned . Harkness described as Union's \best of the year,\ the Dutchmen dominated the action from start to finish. Union took advantage of several Buffalo mistakes, scoring on two power plays: Union outskated, out hustled, out hit, and out scored . the Buffalo sextet throughout the first period, a trend that was to continue for the whole game. From the end of thefirst period it became obvious that Union was the better team and the only question was what the final score would be. Union constantly beat the Buffalo skaters to the puck, passed better and shot better than the visitors from O.J. country. Coach Harkness felt it Was Union's \best three periods of hockey this year,\ Union played the hardest part of its schedule during vacation, with the Dutchmen winning four and losing one. Union beat Salem State in a thriller scoring six goals in the final period and pulling off a 9~6 win. Semi-pro infested Concordia fell by the way side 3- 2, while Don Marshall's hat trick byBILL ·PECK hard hitting defensive hockey. came out flying. With just I 0 Union just .couldn't click when it ~ e con d s e) a p sed, Brad luid a couple of 2 onl breaks, and Hinterberger scored alter some the. second period ended with the ~ good hustle by Kip Churchill and Garnet up 1-0. - ·Grant Judd . Coach Harkness must have Mid:way through the period given the Union players a good Unien was on the Power -play between period talk, because they .hoping.· to sew up the win vyhen BUFFALO UNION BOX SCO~E I 2 3 Final 0 l 0 I 2 4 5 II PERIOD 1: Scoring I )Union. Wright . IGiallonardo). 7::14:. 2) !Inion. Hamilion· . (Judd. Pahapilll. 9:57. Penalties · __ Costello. . Ruffalo. 6:39. hold in,!!: Scarin,l!i. Ruffalo. R: I R, tr.i.ppin,l!: Uni.on. Kaminski. 10::11. interference: Union. O'Connell, 16:0:0t rou,!!hin!!: Buffalo, Haywood. 16:02. tripping . and tou!!hinj!. Saves: Huore 9. BakerS. PERIOD 2: Sroring -- 31 Union, Judd IGiallonardo). :47: 4<) tlnion. Kardos (Giallonardo). 2:31: 5) Union. Kardo> {Giallonardo. Wrij!ht). 9:5:1: 6) Union. Jenkin< IGiallonardo. Churchill). 14:49; 7) Ruffalo. Busch {C'atauna. Gruar.in). 18:32. PENALTIES: Jenkins. Union. 1':26. t<ipping: Sc:aringi. Buffalo. 2~20. trippinj!: Pahapill. Union. 5:14. high <ticking: Resiwcbcr. Ruffalo. 13:43. .t•ipping: Wrij!ht. Union. 16:24. roughinJ!: Songin. B1.1ffalo. lo:24. roughing and high stickin11. Saves: Huore 6, Raker 10. . PERIOD 3: Scoring - Rl !Inion. Pahapill I.Jenkirt<). 1:35: 9) Union. Wri11ht (Churchill. Kardm). 4:03: 10) Union. Hamilt!>n IC'hurchill Judd). 8:49: Ill Union. Bagley IGassola. Thomann). 15:48: i 2) Union. Thomann (lhurchill). !9:52. Totnl Saves: Buffalo25. Union 2i. T<>tnl Shot<: Ruffalo 2:1. l'nion 36, Paul Conley of the Warriors stole a pass and beat Baxter to cut th:e Union lead to 1.. After another Boston penaltY Union car'rJe ~ight back when Don Marshall scored· on a rebound to make if 3-L The game was just about over when .State scored with 12 seconds to go, but Union controlled the puck the rest of the way for the win. Solid defensive play by Bernie. did .. Tn-~Magill- University · 8-5.· .__~--------------------.J Union suffered its first defeat of Kaminski, Dean Mathewson, Pete Hamilton and MaFio Giollonardo highlighted the win. Jim Baxter was solid in the nets, st9pping 34 13oston shots. The offense, led by Churchill, .Judd, Kevin Kardos and Marshall, had 36 shots on. goaL Coach Harkness felt the team played well except for the 2 mistakes that led to Boston goals, and mentioned that it's kind of tough to play sharp on terrible ice· in front of 150 fans (one half of Which were Union fans)_ We heat a good team on their own ice, a big win for Union, Karate Introduced by JEFF LUCK the season in the Merrimack Tournament to host Merrimack, which incidently was the nation's number one division two team. The Dutchmen rebounded in the consolation game. beating Elmira . On Monday night m Haston, A few interested individuals are . tournament grand prize. the Dutchmen played another . 1 · . 1 Detat'ls· ha·v\ not been wor-ked · · · trymg to p an an mttamura \ good defensive game m beatmg Karate tournament to be run in out as of today. Those involved the Warriors of Boston State 3-2. much the same fashion as the are prima~ily interested in _the The game started slowly, with I b . If nu·m· ber of· t'ndt'''·l·.dua·ls (male a-n· ·d b h · f' annua oxmg tournjlment. • ot teams trymg to Jgure out h 1 · [F>. male)· wi-shing to participate in how to pass on the rough Boston enoug peop e enter, an evemn.g \ Arena ice. Goalie Jim Baxter had will be chosen bfi which any such an endeavor. It should be · set:ious Karate student (from noted that maximum stress Will to make a couple of nice saves in . . 1 b. e placed. on. the safety of the_.. order to keep Boston off the Unio~) cah test h1s sk1ls at . ~ ,. . . . . scoreboard, but otherwise it was a Kum1te and ~ossibly K~ta. ~he event (ught or .no ~ontact) and tight defensive battle. However, tournament wrll be orgamzed h,ke equal oppo~tuntty lor those of. with less than a minute left in the · any other open tournament, wt.th . eq).lal expen7noe .. Only stu_dents period Grant Judd took a pass contenders in e,ach class (KQmite .:from accredtted schools wdl be from Kip Churchill and beat the ~nd l_(~t~) bemg broken down allowe~ to enter, and pwof of State goalie Cusack for the score n1:to <hvts~o~s b¥ rank (belt color).· orgamzed study must be whle Boston was short handed. Smgle ehmmatwns would result pres~nted. Those enroll~d in The second period was in a first prize in e~ch belt Unit:>n;s Karate class_ Wtll be scoreless, with ~oth teams playin·g division, and possibly a Cont~illiec:l oil Page 15 I) A b del Au it:; Of! Co sev inc be buc the fin< wit dis col Ac ten the ha1 on stu ye~ Co Eill $3C fu1 exr aln VC;if act sta1 Big anc cfui yea OUt Eill J Co1 and thi~ Co1 Arr Th1 eac. rep bud con fro1 $22 thei $18 Cm set b: \It ex cit launc were Bone of A desc1 Alba • Bo an pn -

. '',' •• UOlOD col~ege- Vol. 105, No. 11 Wedne$day, January 21, 1976 • • on cor tensts Audit .committee: -;! •• ;- .. - •• • . - ' : . Activities budgets complete by OAVID MOSKOWITZ Afte·r several m·onths of deliberations, the Union College Audit Committee has completed its 1975-1976 bt.uJget for student organizations. This year's Committee has been faced with several obstacles; including an increase in the number of clubs to be financed, an increase in most budgetary <;iemands, inflation, theft, arid the usual restriction!! on financial resources. equitable func:l' distribution. \'We decided that this. year no students would be paid from Activities· ·money,\ explained Eilbott,. adding that no money would be going to either religious groups or varsity .sports. Also, money was denied groups like the Ski Patrol in which Certain individuals receive personal gain through Activities money. Having made initial· cuts from budgets, the committee still found themselves $5,000 short of their $180,000 goal. ln reaching any of their budgetary goals, the Committee is beset with many obstacles. \Our biggest problem is security,\ says Eilbott. ''We have a lot of repetitious expenditures.\ He said that every year money is spent fGr stolen items like rugby equipment and Mountebanks sound equipment. This year, though, intramural head Bob Driscoll has provided space for the safe- guarding of athletic supplies. Eilbott said thl!t\th·e emphasis would be placed on cultUre rather . than on religion,\ in explaining that both Hillel and the Union Christian Fellowship probably would receive some sort of funding on)y if their copstitl.!tions .Educaiional cria_:is: wer.e reWritten to emphasize non- reI ig io.us · activit i,es .~ The Committee an Committees recently denied funding to these organizations citing the necessity .of separating religion frotn· other stuc.Jent activities. Aud·it Committee member R.B. Thau replied, \No .comment,\ .when asked about possible future funding for religious organizations. Among the many controversial fina.ncial decisions that the Committee makes, certain decisions to deny organizations funding were made, \not because they weren't good ideas, but we felt they should be paid for by other areas,\ said Thau. ln fhis vein, the Audit Committee is hoping that the proposed Joint Audit and Planning/ Priorities Committee. will allow the College to adopt some items into the administration's budget that were formerly covered by student tax. For example, Student Activities . money will not go towards financing the BSA 's Cultural Library. Eilbott commented that it would be better for Union as a whole if the College footed the bill for such projects ana Continued on Page 9 l~he Audit Committee is faced with the respm1sibility ·of dist-ributing the $205,000~$210,000 collected through the Student Activities Fee ($25 per student per term)~ Of this amount (as seen on .the accompanying chart) $177,150 has been .budgeted to Committee on Co,mmittees-authorized student organizations for this year. According to Audit Committee Chairman David Eilbott {'77), the remammg $30,000 is kept for emergency fund req.uests . and new expenditures. This amount has already gone to the purchases of a v:,tn which will be used for all activities' transportation, to a station wagon for the use of the Big Brothers/ Sisters (and others); and to the usual .group of new cfubs with funding requests. \This year we've given the most money out and kept the least on reserve,\ Eilbott explained. Priorities and Problems According to Eilbott, -the Com~ittee has tried to can;fully and democratically appropriate this yeaT's funds. Th!l five Audit Committee members (Eilbott, Arnie Hiller, Paul Hoyd, R.B. Thau and·, Larry Fein) met with each Of the approved club's representatives :to discuss their budget requests. Last spring the committee received such requests from all organizations totalling $229,792 and made cuts to reach their projected expenditure of $180,000. To do this, ·the Committee had to come up with a set of priorities and criteria for Th'e small college • l.ll America It · has become increasingly popular recently to talk of the imminent demise of small co/leges in America. A report recently published in The ChroniCle of Higher Education confirms some of these doomsday reports. Although it found private education healthy in an overall sense, it described ?1% of the private colleges in America as \in serious trouble by CHRIS O'CONNOR with ultimate survival in doubt.\ Concordiensis has bef{un to investigate thi:J situation. In this article, discussion is presented of several colleges experiencing varying degrees · of difficulty. Next week: a profile of Union's prospects for the future. Convinced that \the college's financial projections make it imperative to re-examine current commitments,\ the ad hoc cbmmittee on Future Directions of Bennington College published in November a report calling for sweeping changes in the college's procedures. The report, produced by a ten- member committee which included Bennington President Gail Thain Parker, called for cuts in nMmber of faculty. increases in tuition. and a revision of the tenure system. J.n addition, the Six year med program ·comes to Union by GbENN WOLFSON \It is with mutual anticipation, ex<;iterilent and pride that We launch this new program.\ These were the words of Stuart Bondurant, President and Dean of Albany Medical CoJiege, as· he described the new Union College- Albany MediCal College Six Year Bonduranti \It is With mutual anticipation, excitement, and pride ihat we launch this new program.\ Medical Education Progran1, m an exclusive interview with. Concordiensis. ·This new program, which is planned to begin in September, 1977, will accept 20 students per year and permit them to enter .medical school after attending two years and two summers at Union. The curriculum for the program, which seeks to provide a broad exposure to the humanities and social sciences in addition to the necessary \pre-medical\ cburses, was approved by- the College Senate on December 3, I!l,75. Duiing the past summer, President Bondurant and Thomas N. Bonner, President of Union College and Chancellor of Union University, discussed the possibility of establishing an accelerated medical program between the two institutions. After deciding that the actministrative pmblems could be properly handled:, Provost · W\illard Enteman delegated the responsibility of developing the curriculum to a subcommittee of t h e E d u c a (i o n a l P o I ic y · Committee. The members of this subcommittee, Prof. Hutzel (biology), Prof. Baker (philoso·phy), Prof. Gajjar (electrical engineering), Prof. Hull (chemistry), Prof. Jonas (history), Pfof. Sehne1Ier (sociology), Ms. Therese Ambrusko, assistant to, the Provost; and Dr. Gerald Kanter, associate dean of AMC, met approximately five times and formulated a curriculum that would insure this extensive exposure to- the \hard science\ courses and courses in the humanities and the social Sctences .. The curriculum requires that students in the pr0gram take 14 \pre-medical\ courses, 12 courses in the humanities and; or the social sciences and two free electives during their two years plus two summers at Union. In order .to prevent a haphazard and diffuse selection of the non- science courses, the committee · construct an Organizing Theme M,ajor composed primarily of courses in the humanities and the social sciences. In addition, all students will be required to take an 'Integrating Seminar' and a one-term project course in the secoQd summer session. The ·Continued on Page lO recommended in their report to Kanter: \The Union <:;allege- the College Senate that \the Albany Medical College Six students be required either to Year Medical Education select an in!erdepa~tmental rn~_r Program . wil( be the . most that combmes bmlogy and a demandmg m the countiJ'.\ department from Center I, or ( report claimed that ·~Bennington's continued vitality depends upon reasserting its distinctive pedagogical commitments.\ The financial situation at Bennington is not good. The committee's drastic financial recommendations, which include raising the comprehensive fee to $8,350 by 1980, reducing the faculty by 15% and drastic cuts in non-instructional expenses. will still have a deficit of over ·. $300,000 in 1980. There had been much controver.sy at Bennington over the report; faculty members have voted \no confidence\ in President Parker and refuse to deal with her in the future. The Board of Trustees has rescinded its previous approval of the report; it will vote on the recommendations again in June. The Board did express strong support for Ms. Parker: however. the faculty remains intransigent. Rutgers and Hofstra Cut Back Wavne State Universitv has anno~nced the closing of Monteith College. Monteith was formed in the mid-sixties to provide the atmosphere of a smatl residential college within the co.ntext of an urban unive~sity. The closing was based solely on financial considerations, said Wayne State officials, not on the quality of Monteith's educational program. Rutgers University has, this past month, given termination notices to 94 faculty members, and is considering the release of an aditional 121 in March. All of Continued on Page 9

,. ·• i • unton college Vol. 105, No. 11 Wednesday, January 21, 1976 • • on cor tensts Audit committee: Activities budgets complete ' . \' t11~~-'8Mdget .$14,1J.5 3,3$0 2.000 HJ,OOO by DAVID MOSKOWITZ After several months of deliberations, the Union College Audit Committee has completed its 1975-1976 budget for student organizations. This year's Committee has been faced with several obstacles: including an increase in the number of clubs to be financed. an increase in most budgetary demands, inflation, theft. and the usual restrictions on fmancial resources. Ihe Audit Committee is faced with the responsibility of distributing the $205,000-$210,000 collected through the Student Activities Fee ($25 per student per term). Of this amount (as seen on the accompanying chart) $177,150 has been budgeted to Committee on Committees-authori7ed student organizations for this year. According to Audit ('o mmittee Chairman David Eilbott ('77), the remaining $30.000 is kept for emergency fund requests and new expenditures. This amount has already gone to the purchases of a van which will be used for all activities' transportation, to a ;.tation wagon for the use of the Big Brothers Sisters (and others). and to the usual group of new dubs with funding reque~ts. \This year we've given the most money out and kept the least on reserve,\ Eilbott explained. Priorities and Problems According to Eilbott, the Committee has tried to carefully and democratically appropriate this year's funds. The five Audit Committee members (Eilbott, Arnie Hiller, Paul Boyd, R.B. Thau and Larry Fein) met with each of the approved club's representatives to discuss their budget requests. Last spring the committee received such requests from all organizations totalling $229,792 and made cuts to reach their projected expenditure of $180,000. To do this, the Committee had to come up with a set of priorities and criteria for equitable fund distribution. \'We decided that this year no students would be paid from Activities money,\ explained Eilbott, adding that no money would be going to either religious groups or varsity sports. Also, money was denied groups like the Ski Patrol in which certain individuals receive personal gaiR through Activities money. Having made initial cuts from budgets, the committee still found themselves $5.000 short of their $1~0.000 goal. In reaching any of their budgetary goals, the Committee is beset with many obstacles. \Our biggest problem is security,\ says Eilbott. \We have a lot of repetitious expenditures.\ He said that every year money is spent for stolen items like rugby equipment and Mountebanks sound equipment. This year, though, intramural head Bob Driscoll has provided space for the safe- guarding of athletic supplies. Eilbott said that \th~ emphasis would be placed on culture rather than on religion,\ in explaining that both Hillel and the Union Christian Fellowship probablv would receive some sort ~f funding only if their constitutions Educational crisis: were rewritten to emphasize non- religious activities.· The Committee on Committees recently denied funding to these organizatiorr., citing the necessity of separating religion from other student activities. Audit Committee member R.B. Thau replied, \No comment.\ when asked about possible future f u n d i n g to r r e !1 g i o u s organitations. Among the many contruver~ial financial decisions that the Committee makes, certain decisions to deny organizations funding were made, \not because they weren't good ideas, but we felt they should be paid for by other areas,\ said Thau. In this vein, the Audit Committee is hoping that the proposed Joint Audit and Planning· Priorities Committee will allow the College to adopt some items into the administration's budget that were formerly covered by student tax. For example. Student Activities money will not go towards financing the BSA 's Cultural Library. Eilbott commented that it would be better for Union as a whole if the College footed the bill for such projects and Continued on Page 9 ; ..... .•·• ·.·.' ;~,, •. ,.,.~ CJ3mmittee ,, ·~• . 0t!¥J()Ydiensis • :. • 0 • Cotfeehot~se .... · Sod~I Committee Union .Book M cm:ittebanks LJnebacker ·speaker's Forum Big '·Brothers/ Sisters !dol Outing Club .PYE Men's Glee Club Political Forum NENY Youth Orchestra Pre-Law Society Photo Society Rugby Club W2UC International Relations International Students Ski Team/Club Jazz Workshop Women·s Caucus Volleyball Club Women's Glee Club Table Tennis Club BSA Modern Dance Bowling Club Chemistry Club Campus 'Voice Port of Albany Project When Diplomacy Fails 12,065 2,205 30,000 !6,245 20,990 635 15,165 970 7,975 l;I08 225 8,665 2,555 1,500 Ll45 480 505 675 2,265 1.130 845 400 1.605 345 !,770 607 10,680 730 100 1 I 5 3.170 l.S{) 50 The small college America • lll It has become increasinr;f.v popular recently to talk of the imminent demise o( small colleges in America. A report recently published in The Chronicle of Higher Education confirms some of rhese doomsday reports. A !thour;h it found private education healthy in an overall sense, it described 27% of the private coller;es in America as \in serious trouble by CHRIS O'CONNOR with ultimate survival in douht.\ Concordiensis has begun to investigate this situation. In this article, discussion is presented of several colleges experiencing varyin!( degrees of difficulty. Next week: a pro(ile of Union's prospects for the future. Convinced th~t \the college's financial projections make it imperati\'e to re-examine current commitments.\ the ad hoc committee on Future Directions report claimed th~t of Bennington College puhlished \Bennington's continued \itality in ~ovemher a report calling for depends upon reasserting its ~weeping changes in the college\ distincti\e pedagogical procedures. c0mmitments.\ The report. produced hy a ten- The financial ..,ituation at memher committee which Bennington is not good. The included Bennington President committee\ drastic financial Gail Thain Parker. called for cuts n:commendatinn'>. which include in numher of faculty, increases in raising the cnmprehensiw fee to tuition. and a re\·ision of the SiU50 hv 19RO. reducing the tenure system. In addition. the facultv h,·. I 5% and drasti~ cuts Six year 01ed progrant conies to Union ( in ~on-instructional expenses. will still haw a deficit of over $.100,000 in I 9~W. There had he en much by GLENN WOLFSON \It is with mutual anticipation, excitement and pride that we Ia unch this new program.\ These were the words of Stuart Bondurant, President and Dean of Albany Medical College, as he described the new Union College- Albany Medical College Six Year Ronduranl: \fr is with mutual anti£ iparion. excilemenr, and pr;de that 1\'f' launch rim new pro?ram.\ Medical Education Program, in an exclusive interview with Concordiensis. This new program, which is planned to begin in September, 1977, will accept 20 students per year and permit them to enter medical school after attending two years and two summers at Union. The curriculum for the program, which seeks to provide a broad ~ exposure to the humanities and t;; liE social sciences in addition to the ~ necessary \pre-medical\ courses. i: was approved by the College c Senate on December 3, 1975. c E. During the past ~ummer, President Bondurant and Thoma~ N. Bonner. President of l 'nit'n College and Chancellor of l.'n1on lJ niver~ity. discu~sed the possibility of establi~hing an accelerated medical program between the two institutions. After deciding that the administrative problems could be properly handled, Provost Willard Enternan delegated the responsibility of developing the curriculum to a subcommittee of the Educational Policy Committee. The members of this subcommittee, Prof. Hutzel (biology), Prof. Baker (philosophy), Prof. Gajjar (electrical engineering), Prof. Hull (chemistry), Prof. Jonas (history), Pfof. Schneller (sociology), Ms. Therese Ambrusko, assistant to the Provost; and Dr. Gerald Kanter, associate dean of AMC, met approximately five times and formulated a curriculum that would msurc this extensive exposure to the \hard science .. courses and courses in the h umanitie~ and tho; social sciences. !he curriculum re4uires that 'tudents in the program take 14 \pre-medical\ courses. 12 courses In the humanitic~ and or the ~ocial sciences and t\\o free clccti\es during their two years plus two summers at Union. In order to prevent a haphazard and d iltusc selection of the non- science courses, the committee recommended in their report to the College Senate that \the students be required either to select an interdepartmental major that combines biology and a department from Center I, or construct an Organizing Theme Major composed primarily of courses in the humanities and the social sciences. In addition, all students will be required to take an 'Integrating Seminar' and a one-term project course in the secoi)d summer session. The Continued on Page 10 Kanter: \The Union Col[egc- A !ham· Medical Co!lef?e Six Year .Hedical Educarion Program it'ill he the most demandins; in the cuwtfiT. ·· controversy at Bennington over the report: faculty memhers haYe voted \no confidence\ in President Parker and refu,e to deal with her in the future. The Board of Trastees has rescinded its pre,ious appro\al nf the report: it will \Me on the rectlmmendatinns again in June. The Roard did express ..;trnng: o;upport fnr \1,. Parker: hn\\L'\l'r. th,· fanllt\ remain' intran,igcnt Rutgers and Hofstra Cut Back \\'.11nL· \tate l'niler,it\ annPUill'L'd th,· cl<\Jn!.! h.h nf \f,,ntelth (\,llq . .:e \ft,ntcitfl 1\,l' f,,rmcd 111 the n~~d~'J'dll'' r,, rr<ll ide• the· dlll:<''rhcrL· ,,f ,I 'rl.tlJ lt''ickllti,Ii ,·,,)]l').!L' \\Jtfllll the ,·pntt'\t ••t an l!Ih..ln uni\ er,Jtl. I he clil'lll).! 1\ ~~' ha-.cd ' n I,· h n n f i n a IlL' i a I r<'rhid,·I,tti<'n'. 'aid \\'a\!ll' State pffiL·iak !lt1! <'!1 the q.ualit\ ,,f \fontcith\ edtll.:atinnal pro,l!r~ml Rutgn~ l 'niHr,it\ ha~. thi, pa'>t nwnth. gi\t'n tl'rminatitlt1 notice' tn Q4 Ltcult\ nwmhn,, and i' clln~idcring tl{t• rl'leasr t1f an aditional I~ I In \larch. :\11 of Continued on Page IJ

Page 16 -· . -·-------· . --- --· ··----·- ----·--~ -- --··---- -··· ---·---·--·-·--·--·---··--- Garnet Hoop Rebounds b~ BilL HF\'SO\'; lht• 11nrch 1,f 11arntn_!.! had ion!.! hcen 'L'altL'rcd. the cthhton' ot e\l'li'L'' 11 i<:lt'h hrnadea't 1<1 \dten tht· hlo11 nf P\''ihk dckat \\St't'<'ild-ranked. in the 'talt'. l\l •llq \It'll 'I' nf 'l'\ l'll '! f<IIJ.!hl. 1ll\llt'h ,,, ;1 mamnwth front lme a\l'la!2ing t-.'7'\ per man. 'uper tnugh under pn·,,urT and hk,,ed 11ith a potential tnp-rPund '\.B.·\. draft piek\ And a' the1 cPnfidt•ntl· . glided through 11 a r m u r ' . d 11 a rf i n !! t h e i r '>t'unin~l\ pint-,ited oppnnenh at the nppo,lte end of the n(l(l[, the nmtnnu' 'nund' nf ,J..eptici'-ln 'l'emed de-.tined to ht• reali;t•d. Rut 11 it h i n t w P h n u r' conqueror hecame Yictim. umanked toppled top-rated, p11i,ed Jn,t their coni. mammnth ... hmnk ttl mid!ll't. pro pro-,pect wa' rele_gated to the hu~hes and the l'ninn Cnlle_ge Baskethall team handih defeated The Hartwid Warrior' f\7-75. In the proce•-... the~· al~\ convincingly nmLJui-.hed the many douhts that had plagued their numerous follower-; ~ince the advent of the 1975-7o sea ... on. Few times in the Walters- Scanlon era of Union haskethall had the fam heen so confused and po\'>es'>ed so little in which to hase their hoop judgements and expectations on as they did last Saturday evening filing into Memorial Fieldhouse. The team's record stood at a middling three and three. While at times they displayed flashes of the aggressive. hustling team defense recogni7ed as Union's own and often exhibited a patient. fast- moving attack that netted close- range hoop'>. only once did they combine the two long enough to _gain a victory over a relatively talented and competitive opponent. Coming into the Capital District Christmas Tournament. January 3rd and 4th. the Garnet <>ported a two and one record. hardly indicative of their quality of play. They appeared sluggish in victory and miserable in defeat. Most significantly and in a vear where it i' so sorelv nee.ded. they lacked the intensity and competetiveness so characteri<;t ic of recent Union hoop teams. So it came as no surprise when the Garnet received third seeding in the tnurnev behind Siena and Alhany State and ahead only of R.P.I. Still a highly partisan { r nion crowd of 4.000. eager for an up~et and rejecting the Dutchmen\-. previOU\ plav a'> t\pit~al. jammed into the Fieldhome Saturda\ e\enin_g for the opcn111_g rnuncl. l 'tili;inl! con'i'tent pre''-lilT L 1 tfen\e and di-,cardinl! <llll' olkn'L' lor a more rc:1111 game l · nion one-on- effecti\c 'tiff h ,halkngcd the tall talented lnlktn·, <ll Stcna \\'ith k\ than tc·n mtnlltL'' rcmarnmg in the \rlte't l nr•Hl. ,parked h\ (ian H<lrl!L''e reeled 11ff three qrail!ht huckch to forl!c ahead )J-50. I he crn11d 'houted ec,taticall~·. hopinl! to maintain the nwnrentum. Rut Siena. led h~· Stele Walter' and exploiting their deeided heil!ht ad\ a nta_ge. countered v. ith '>even point<- of their ov..n to capture a lead they ne\er rclinqui,hed. the final tally mrntin_g Siena victon· h1: fi\r. A9- h-4 I he I TII<lll fan' e\ited intl' thl' htttn .lanuan t'l'ld. ,aJckned 1\!1 de kat. hut ht•a rll'llt'd h\ a It'! II\ t'llatL·d ( i;tl'llL't 'Li uad ;Hld thtt,lllll! !1'1 triumph 1llcr ·\lh<!lll Stall' thl· fp]J<,I\ing ili~ht in tht· con\olatiiHl hattlt:. ·r hn were not d i'a ppninted ·\Iter rht\111~ l'\t'n for the fir ... t ten rnintltl'' l'ninn hrokl.' it oren and '1rnpl1 hie\\ thl.' Great Dane' PUt 11! the pame. The re..,en c'. on thl' flnPr much nl the cnntc'>t. etkcti1 ch maintained the \~ide mar.l!rn of \ icton. In the nine n\·lock cJa,h Siena cna,ted to an ea'\ U'nque't nf R.P 1.. lc:t\in_!.! mam a 'pectatnr with the reali;:ttion that cnntran to the tnurnamcnt rro~ram. the final ... had heen held Saturda\ nnt Sunda\ and that the l'nion Quintet. after a 'hah hq!inn inf!. had finally found them-,eh es. Rut three day~ later u ncerta intv spru n_g a new. The Dutchmen had ~uffered a not her defeat. this time at the hands of Central Connecticut State C'nllef!e. on the Garnet schedule for the first time this year. ]\;ot only the fact of defeat it>elf hut the final -;core. 94-91. incited the renewed queqinning. \Sure Central Connecticut was f!OOd Jthey heat Bridgeport) hut 94 ·points? Where had the defense disappeared to? Was the loss of two top reserve guards (who left the team for personal reasons) that costly'?\ Finally and most importantly they asked. \Could Union win the. hi_g ones'?\ Saturday Night Would Tell All i As the teams lined up for the 0pening tap this pressing doubt concerned all present. hut seemed to affect the Union players. the only ones ahle to rectify the situation. the most. and m particular. if action is an indicator of emotion. the senior tri-captains. John Denio. Joel Fi-;her and Steve Kelly. From the outset the Dutchmen showed their ap:p:ressivenes~ as Mike Smith. starting for the first time. hmtled to capture the loose center tap. But desire doesn't put the hall in the hoop as the Garnet found themselves earlv victims of a cold shootin~ touch. Fortunately. Hartwick also encountered difficulty finding the range. But it seemed only a matter of time before the Hartwick hei)!ht advantage would take its toll on their -;horter opponenh. Instead {Inion. in the name of Pete Meola. reveN?d this lo)!ic. Pete. rmhing in from the foul line. 'natched an offemive rehound from hi' ta]Jer riYa]<,, put the h:\1] hack ur and 'cored. Ciar'\ Ron!e'>e quick!\ added (\\o 1 ut'i<k iumpn' .. mardin_g { 'ninn a 'l'\cll point It-ad. r hen 'mack I Ct•ntcr AI \Valk~r !;1 \ ll\lhtretchcd on the cmnt. tllltchlll~ hi' thruat. Ill· had hccn 'ma-.lwd \\ith a lorL•arn1 h\ Warnur. Cia!\ Rohin,on \l·ho v..a, tmmediatcl~ eJected. The Dutchmen needed no more. I he thrt..'l' captain-. a\urned permanent control. .I ohn Denio. providin;:r crucial pia\ maki n.u: a hi lit\. consiqentl\' turned the impo~ing Hart\\ ick 1one into a ,jew with pinpoint p<h'>ing and '>tlcce\ful lon;:r-ran_ge shootin!!. Ste1e Kellv handcuffed Stretch Continued on Page J 5 One of Salem's finest Rets cauKht up in the Rame. The remainder of this fine fellow's team followed suit. Achilles Heroes Slide On The Union Hockey Team raised its record t'o 6-2 Friday night with an II-I thrashing of highly touted University of Buffalo. In a game which Coach Ned Harkness described as Union's \best of the year,\ the Dutchmen dominated the action from start to finish. Union took advantage of several Buffalo mistakes. scoring on two power plays. Union outskated. out hustled, out hit, and out scored the Buffalo sextet throughout the first period, a trend that was to continue for the whole game. From the end of the first period it became obvious that Union was the better team and the only question was what the final score would be. Union constantly beat the Buffalo skaters to the puck. passed better and shot better than the visitors from O.J. country. Coach Harkness felt it was Union's \best three periods of hockey this year.\ Union played the hardest part of its schedule during vacation, with the Dutchmen winning four and losing one. Union beat Salem State in a thriller scoring six goals in the final period and pulling off a 9-6 win. Semi-pro infested Concordia fell by the way side 3- 2. while Don Marshall's hat trick did In -Magill Universit\' R-5. l'nion ~mffered ih first defeat of the '\Ca ~on m the Merrimack Tournament to ho'>t Merrimack. which incidently wa' the nation\ number one divi ... ion two team. The Dutchmen rehnunded in the con,nlation game. heating Flmrra. On Monday mght m Huston. the Dutchmen pia~ ed another good dekmt\l' game In heating the \Varrior' of B<,~lon State -~-2 lhc game 'tarted ,]o\\]\. 1\lth hoth team~ trying to ligure out hov. to pas' on the rnugh Bo\lon !\rena rcl:. (ioalic .Jim Baxter had to make a couple of nice 'ave, 111 order to keep Host on ott the score hoard. hut ot hl'I'Wtse it was a light defensive hattie. However. v.ith less than a minute !t:lt in the period Grant .Judd took a pas> from Kip Chmchill and beat the State goalie Cusac;k for the score whle Boston wa' short handed. The second perrod was scoreless. with hoth teams playmg by BILL PECK hard hitting defensive hockey. Union just couldn't click when it had a couple of 2 on I breaks. and the second period ended with the Garnet up 1-0. • Coach Harkness must have given the Union players a good hetween period talk. because they BUFFALO liN ION BOX SCORF. I 2 ~ f-mal 0 I 0 I 2 4 -; II PERIOD 1: Scnrm~ IH'ntnn Wn~ht C(iJ,dlon.ndtll. .., ~4. ~) t 'n1nn Hamilton Lludd. Pahapdli. q q Ponalt1e' C•\trlln. Ruffa)P f,-l<)_ hnldme. St'<lrtn~t. Ht1ffnln. R·IR. fn[lp!np- l'n1nn. KamJn..,kJ. 10 ,,_ mtcrterenC'e: l'nton. O'Connell. ltl 02. rnn~hmp. Ruffalo. Htl\v.nnd. 10 02. tnppin!! .1nd tnuJ!h101! '\a\c' Hut,re 9. Baker 5 PERIOD 2: Scortn~ ~I l'mon. Judd (C/1:1llnnardfll. 47: 4) l'mnn. K<trdo\ {\uallnnardnl. :::'.~I. ';J l'mon. Kardo' /(l!allnn.Hdn \\'n,l!htJ Q 5~ fl) l'n1on. Jr,onkm\ C(iJ<!Ikmardn. Churchllll. 14 49: 7) Ruffalo. Ru.,rh CCataunn. (iruannL tX-12 PENALTIES: .lenktm. I 'mnn. I 2n. tnpptn~: '>cannp1 Ruffaln. 2 '0. 1nprm~ Pahap•ll. l'nwn .:;-14. h1~h o,llckln~ Re..,rv .. ehrr Rullaln 114~. tnppm,l!. Wnpht. l-n,nn. I(, ~4. rou~l11n_g. ~'H'Il.£!In. Ruflalo. 16 ~4. rnt1p.hmp. am.l ht,l!h \-ttckm~ <..;aH'\ H11nrr 0_ Raker 10 PF.RIOD 3: <;cnrm? Xl l'ntnn. Pahap•ll /Jrnkm'l- 1 1~. QJ l ·ntt1n \\.-n,eht CChurc!HIL Kardn,) 4111 lfll {'mon. Hamilton tChurch•ll .luddl. X 49. Ill l'mnn. Ra~ln l(ia ...... nl;t fhnmtmn l. 15 4H. I :n 1 'nHln. J homann IChurchdll IQ 1\~ l M,tl '\,1\t'\ Rullalo ~)- l'mnn ~~ T •t:tl '.hoh Ruffaln ~':I I mnn 1n came out flymg. With just 10 seconds elapsed. Brad H interberger scored after some good hustle by Kip Churchill and Grant Judd Midway through the period Union was on the Power play hoping to sew up the win when Paul Conley of the Warriors stole a pass and beat Baxter to cut the Union lead to I. After another Boston penalty Union .-:arne right back when Don Marshall scored on a rebound to make it 3-1. The game was just about over when State scored with 12 seconds to go, but Union controlled the puck the rest of the way for the win. Solid defensive play by Bernie Kaminski. Dean Mathewson. Pete Hamilton and Mario Giollonardo highlighted the win. Jim Baxter was solid in the nets. stopping 34 Boston shots. The offense, led by Churchill, Judd. Kevin Kardos and Marshall, had 36 shots on goal. Coach Harkness felt the team played well except for the 2 mistakes that led to Boston goals. and mentioned that it\ kind of tough to play sharp on terrible ice in front of 150 fans (one half of which were Union fans). We beat a good team on their own ice. a big win for Union. Karate Introduced by JEFF LCCK A few intere~ted mdiVJduals are. tournament grand prite. trymg to plan an mtrctmural l>etarls haH: not heen worked Karate tournament to he run 111 out a~ of todaY. I ho'e irnohed much the same fa~hion as the are primanly .mterestcd 111. the annual hoxing tournament. If number ol mdi\lduals (male and enough people enter. an evening female) wishing to participate rn will he chosen on which any such an endeavor. It should he serious Karate student (from noted that maxr mum stress will Union) can test his skills at he placed on the safety of the Kumite and possibly Kata. I he event (light or no contact) and tournament will be organ11:ed like equal opportunity for those of any other open tournament. Wtth equal experience. Only students· contenders in each class ( K umite from accredited schools will be and Kata) heing hroken down allowed to enter. and proof of into divisions by rank (belt color). organited study must he Single eliminations would result presented. I hose enrolled m in a first pw:e in each belt Union's Karate class will be division, and possibly a Continued on Page 15 ,., ·I j A A b; 1- deli Au· its or~ Co1 ~CV< JnCl be hue the: fm< I wit <list coli Act terr the has on stu< yea ('o 1 Eill $30 fun exp a Ire V<:~n acti ;.tat Big and dul yea· out Eilt A Cor and this Cor Arn Tha eacl rept bud corr fror $22~ thei $18l Cor set b~ \It ex cit< launc were Bond of AI descr Alba1 Ro. il/1 I pr;, -

\ ' Page2 CONCORDIENSlS, Wednesday, Jan. 21, 1976 Ma.ster Plan approv.ed by DA VlD MOSKOWITZ announced Aaron Feinsot's appointment as Dean of Graduate Studies and Continuing Education. Bonner also said that it was \still uncertain'' whether or not Paula Brownle~i: would be joining Union as Dean of Faculty before the end of the year, BonneF also brought up a motion whereby Union would formally recognize Martin :Luther King Day in the future; this motion passed unanimously. Engineer wins· prize In a meeting held Thursday, January 15 the Union College Sen~te voted unanirn:ously to approve the College's Master Plan for 1976. This .plan, required by the NY State Department of Education every four years, was termed \nothing more than a plan\ by Provost Willard Ertteman. The plan can be ·changed, he said, by :receptivity on the part of administration, facll(lty, and College government. The Master Plan Gutlines projected College budgets and personnel for the next few years. In response to faculty inquiries into an apparent decrease in the size of ·1980's faculty, the Provost explained that most figures in the plan were \rounded off' and did not dictate any specific College policies; In opening remarks, .. Union President Thomas Bonner Newsmen w:an-ted who are interested in stringing for the News Bureau should call Forbush at 370-6172, or drop by his office on the second floor o{ Lamont House. Student members of the Senate brought up a motion that would have allowed any student being reviewed hy the Committee on Standing ,the option of , having another student sit in on his case. This,. motion was barely defeated 13-10, with three student senators, Lee Rimsky, Jim Kane, and Larry Levitz (proxy) the only three students voting for continuation of the status quo. Steven R. Bussoiari, a 1975 Union College graduate in mechanical engineering, hal'! won fin~t prize in the Nation~! Mechanic~! E~gineering Student Conference Competition sponsored b'y The American Society of Mechanical Engineers. Bussolad, 23, surpassed 14 other national finalists to win the competition held at the ASME annual meeting in H<!uston, Texas, on Dec. 3. Bussolari qualified for the national conte~t by winning the Middle Atlanttc states competition .last May l!>S a Union College Senior. aortic valve. In making the. test, Bussolari simulated the action of the heart with a piston pump. Bussolari's research was part of a major study . of · artificial aortic valves funded by tbe Engineering Foundation. . The objective of Or. Shanebrook'1l project is to devise a new streamlined neart valve that would produce less bloo_d turbulence than artificial valves curreatly used, thus reducing the amount ·of stress on. the heart and ultimately, Dr. ~hanebrook hopes, prolong the lives of heart patients. Dan Forbush, manager of the Union College News Bureau, is responsible for getting news of the College into print and broadcast news media. He hopes 10 establish on the campus a network of volunteer ''stringers\ - students in each department with res,ponsibility for keeping Forbush informed on the activities of the department's students and faculty. Through the News Bureau, stringers 'Would report on those activities · fot students' hometown newspapers and occasionally for the local news media. Pre-law revived· Bussolari won both the regional and national competitions with his presentation of independent research on artificial heart valves he did la$t year under Richard Shanebrook, professor of mechanical engineering at Union. The work involved testing the flow of. fluid throq,gh an artificial Bussolari is currently teaching English at an engineering school in Angers, France, and doing graduate work in physics at the University of Angers; He is also working on a research team at the University of Angers; Medical School which is investigating the flow of air in the lungs. Art. for hand~c~pped Stringers are not limited to covering academic departments. They can cover otherareas such as sports' or 'student attivities. All students who volunteer as stringers will be taught the rudiments ·of newsWriting. Those ·• B.tt:r,e:~tu . ' formed A Speakers Bureau for Schenectady County United Cerebral Palsy has been formed to acquaint the public with the developmentally disabled child, what treatment is available, especially here in our atea, anCI what advances have been made in the past five years. Serving on the Bureau are R, Ross Rippel, President of the Board of UCP in Schenectady; David M. Levy, Executive Director of the Affiliate; Sasha Hovak and Jane Bryant, staff members; and Linda Rippel, a parent. A slide show has also been prepared to be a part of any programs, if desired. Any club, organization, or church group who would like to learn more about this topic is requested to call 518~382-4530, and ask for Beverly Maszdzen, or write UCP of Schenectady, 124 Rosa Road, Schenectady, New York 12308. The Union College Pre-Law Society has been re-activated. Officers were selected at the November 5th meeting: President- Hili Malnick ('78); Vice President- Steve Lqren ('77); Secretary- Diana Leyden ('78); Treasurer- Joe VanDeLoo ('79). Appointed as Chairpersons were: Corres- pondence Committee-Andrea Shandell (''?9}; ~ilndb.o.ok Committee.:.Arni'e Hiller '('76); Publicity..;Russ Ebbets ('76). The main function of the club ts to • pJ;ovide services . te · ~ny : · •• 1 • ~ , t • I 1 De~uJline for the submission of papers to the UNION REVIEW, a journal of politics published by Umon · · students will be ·February 3. All students are eligible to, submit papers to the journal. For further information please contact Peter Rubin 393•0177 or Professor Charles Tidmarch in the Political Science Office. We are members of an Ad Hoc . Committee that is clta.-ged with the responsibility of studying the future of the Glee Clubs · at union and recommending the type of student choral organization(s) that we conclude would be the most . appropriate to the College. WE NEED YOUR IDEAS. Please send them. to: Students: Elaine Knickmeyer, Jim Tremlett, Glen Wolfson; Faculty: David Potts; Administrators: Therese Ambrusko, Debbie Kilgus, Nancy Smith. Fall Term in Florence 1976 ELIGmiLITY Participants will h~ve completed a cours~ in E~ementary Italian (offered in the Spnng Term of 1976) or Its eqmvalent, and they must be in good standing academically and socialJy. Preference will be given to Seniors, Juniors, and Sophomores in that 01;der in case there are more qualified applicants than can be accommodated. PROGRAM OF STUDY The three-course package consists of an Italian langUage course, one in Renaissance Italy and one in Contemporary Italy. The latter two courses will be given primarily in English and will count as Comp .. Ed. options in Center I. TENTATIVE CALENDAR March 5 - non-refundable deposit of $100 at College Business office. August l - $1550 balance of fee. September 18 - Flight to Rome September 20 - Beginning of ten~week academic program in Florence. . · · November 26- End of academic program. Return flight date up to indhddual participant. For further details and application forms st;~ Prof~ss.or Klemm, Director of Term Abroad Programs (Humamties Bmldmg). student contemplating a career in law. A handbook will be produced which will include every law school and its admission The State Education Depart- standards, the number of Union ment in Albany is currently '75 graduates who applied to each working on a project for the school, and the number of Union handicapped. The \Model Arts graduates who were accepted to Festival for the Handiqtpped\ each. project will begin in late January Another important service will and continue until May or June. be Sp9n~OJ;ship. in CQnj.unction Coordinators are interested in with surrounding colfeges ·of .an having·t'wo ·student!~ worK on· the LSA T preparation course. planning and public relations Anyone interested in working aspects of the project. One on an upcoming event,. a panel s t ud e n t w i ll - be g i v e n discussion ·, on ca_reer responsibility. for . coordinating o~pot;t.U1,1i~~' :, ~~hoyld . :iC~n~~~t,: :Ccihfm1tt~es ~Jiiouglfdtit...t.fhe~' stiiti. ::, Dtana· Leyden, Box 2129 or 370- The\ second student will be 6638. respqnsible for project Jmblicity . .. if you don't believe it, .get ready for Feb. 6, 7,8 through newspaper, television, and radio. Any minor travel required to fulfill. these responsibilities will be funded by the State Education Deaprtment. This project offers excellent experience and has been · reco'mmended for credit by ih~ State-' 'Edilcati<lri · Departnierit. ·'A small stipend of $250.00 may be available, Interested students should contact Judy Kolacb (414- 7810) for .~n. intety~w or, for fo:fitn.r .tanmfiati~n, 4lontact the Office of Placement and Career Counseling. , u Pau cam Wo clos ~tu~ SOOI \·1 clea Bm w1tt whe educ Bro' hop' with the com allo• hett1 A1 mad; the Offii: of Oot11 part- to c: was want Adm and: Ms. Or her ( babv S.UI'Je T Stuc ap.p1 C'hr Last the acce reii!l COO! WOl in de func Hille reco stre~ they the 1 dinn the

- • st, of tp. 'a tic ng If. ise tat o_d 1es he nd ok art pg. >ol .ng :he I so the cal the l. on, .vel ~se by :nt. ent :en tlX be nts 74- for the ·eer \ .,'\l' . CONCORDIENSJS, Wednesday, Jan 21, 19,]6 Page3 New. Dean of Faculty Speaks Unwn~s next Dean of Faculty, Paula Brownlee, - appeared on campus last week to take part in Women~s Week and to get a closer look at the faculty and students with whom she will s(lon he working. \Union is a place that is very clear-eved about its future.\ Ms. Brownlee said in an int.erview with Concordiensis, .. it's a place w.here one can get as good' an education as possible.\ Ms. Brownlee explained that she hoped t0 keep in direct contact wi·th Union faculty members, th·erehy improving her communications with them and allowing the faculty to know her better. · by DAVID MOSKOWITZ One reason Ms. Browalee decided to come to Union was its status as a private educationa1 institution. Her several years at Rutgers. a New Jersey state university. turned her off to \bureaucratic control by state people far from the educational field.\ She also remarked that positions such as Dean of f\acl):Jty are open, \onJ.y so often.\ making tf.ie choice a rare one: Ms. Brownlee fe\ls that when \quality women·\ apply for competitive positions such as hers. they should be considered equals. As she envisions her job_, \I'll trJ'\lo make conditions more cotn.fnrtilhlt> fot the facultv ... while making sure that courses respond to student demands as well as those of the faculty.\ In remarks made to a Women's Week audience at Union. Brownlee applauded the i m.p I i cat i o r:i s be h i n d t h e revamped Union m01tto: \We Become One Under The Laws of Minerva.\ While commenting that she would he \fool-hardy and presumptuous\ to taf·k about Union's women students without better first-hand knowledge of them. she urged \a~l women to take on more responsibility.\ Brownlee looks forward to the responsibilities of her position at Union. Pta:cement replacement An effort is currently being made to reorganize the duties of the personnel of the Placement Office. Susanna Miller, Director of Career P'lacement and Counseling. is nqw working in a parHime capacity. Her decision.~ to cut down her working hours was strictly a voluntary one. \I want. _to ~mph,w;ize that. ~be Admm1stmtaon ·was supportave and :.ensit-ive to mv needs,'\ stated Ms. Miller. · One of the main reasons. for her decision was the birth .of her babv last .July. \1 thought I was super•woman and cojlld -hold a ·9 by SUSAN DRAPER to 5Joh while raising a kid,\ Ms. Miller said. ;•which was fine as long as the students weren't here ... \ The combination of the gr:itr!' job market, and a~rupt de.parture of one. of the secretaries casued utter chaos in the Placement Office earlier in the year. \It is a lesson for career- minded woinen students - J forgot all ahou.t enjoying children.\ commented Ms. MiUer on the strain of her _job. \Furthermore. i could not enjoy the benefits of working in. a cqltef!e !<ituation like partkipatinl! m the Women's Caucus.\ Union s.eeks to hire another person to work full-time in the Placement Office. The duties will lnvove primarily counseling students. Money for the additonal salarv has been appropriated from the budget of Student Affairs. A new staff member will enable Ms. Miller to concentrate more on the important area of job development. Her concerns ·will include finding job opportunities within , tlie · husine~s community and acting ·as an \external and .·internal relations liaison.'' FOrnln ·nixes religious clubs The first meeting of the Student. Forum op.ened with appeals made- by· '\\the Union Christian FelJowship -and Hillel. Last fall. the Tax Committee and the Student 'Forum refused to accept the constitutions of both reiigious organi7ations, which consequently meant that they would. hf!Ve •to: operate independently · of . stud·ent tax funds. Now. the Fellowship ·and Hillel were asking for a reconsideration. The Hillel group stressed the cultural f\mctions they provide for the carnptls. In the past. Hillel has brought films. dinners. speakers. and dances to the entire student · body. and - . ..., .(': - by AUDREY ROTHSCHilJ) insisted that. the rngney they were requesting would -o·nly be· channeled into· cultural events arid not into the religi01,1s practices of the group. The Forum agreed that the cultural activities Hillel provided were. in fact. important hut· they could not aecept their constitution· as long as religion was mentioned in its text. The final vote was one in fa·vor of their original constitution. ten opposed.. and four atistained. In the Forum's final remarks it was stated that a new constitution. which would omit the concept of religion, would J>e voted on when Winter Stock .. Dawe'a 42fl State St. Downtown Schenectady Tuesday and Thursday Open Till 9:00 \ ' submitted. When Hillel had ·finished its argument. the Union Christian Fellowship ·took its turn to' speak. Its representatives admitted they belonged to a religious organization which was concerned with . spiritually helping Union•s student body. Members of the Fellowship stated their organi7ation's need for books and publicity, both of which required student tax funding. The Fellowship attacked· the Forum for not meeting their ne.eds when they, · too, pay student tax. They claimed· that the Forum was unjustly distinguishing between physical. cultural. social. and spiritual needs of the students. The final vote on the issue was one in favor of the original constitutuion, eleven opposed, and two abstentions. Throughout all discussion. the members of the Forum stood firm in their belief that student tax money should not go to religious organizations on a non~ sectarian campus. After the voting, the . Forum proceed to hear David Eilbott's report of a joint Tax and Plannin.g and Priorities Committee. The Forum listened to the criteria and guidelines the new committee set up and general consensus was favorable. The FoTum will now wait for the vote of the Planning and Priorities Committee. Implementation will mean that the College will begin to take oVer some of the tax costs that have been horne by the students in the past years. Lastly. and rather quickly, the Forum decided to call down the Editors of Concordy and the. Voice to their next meeting on Feburary 21. at '6:30 in Fox Lounge. The Forum is open to all students who either wish to listen in on the proceedings or voice opinions. Paula Brownlee: Union's next Dean of Faculty Student activities: A van for all season.s by ARNIE HILLER Starting tomorrow a new time-and-one-half, or $3.00 per organi7ational van will be seen at hour. for all trips with the van. Union. The .1971 Club Window This expense. and a charge for Van was purchased through the .gasoline spent on the trip fundin~ bv !'he Student Tax itself, will be the only charge to Committee and the Intramural those student organizations using Department, in an . effort to the vehicle. provide .much-needed: transpor- It hal! been agreed by the tation for certain student clubs members of the Tax Committee and intramural activities. This and Mr. Driscoll to allow those eleven~seat ~an was finally drivers who are ·capable of decided upon following an driving this van to do so, and exhaus1ive sea.rch ~y tht~)Jpad of thus save their organizatiou the Union's .. intramu.ral . pro.gram. charge of a designated driver. In Bob Driscoll. The idea of such a order to ensure . that these van came up during the Tax individuals are thoroughly Committee~s meetings with Bob qualified to do the driving it has concerning the student funding been -decided that a test·ing of the intramural program at procedure will be designed. The Union. Everyone present at the test will enable the examiner to meeetings acknowledged the need decide if an individual will be a for some kind. of small capacity risk to either the van or its vehicle which would be available passengers. for a plethora. of locally centered These individual tests will be activities. All too often activities given next week. Tuesday fail to succeed due to a lack of through Friday (weather transportation. Throughout the permitting) between the hours of fall. Whenever the Tax 12 noon and 2 p.m. A sign-up Committee met with clubs sheet will be provided in the concerning their budget requests. intramural office all day the use of a van was discussed as Monday, 'Jan. 26 for all those it pertained to the functioning of who wish to be tested that week. that specific club. After meeting It is urged that only those with a number .of clubs and individuals who belong to hearing their enthusiasm about student recognized organizations, the· proposed investment, it was and haVe a great deal of decided that such a van would experience in driving similar greatly benefit the operations of types. of Vehicles, sign up for many organizations and testing times. However, if any activities at the College. club has two qualified drivers it Total expenditures for the would be beneficial for that club vehicle should run the two to have both members take the organi1ations a bout $1,500 each. test. in case any scheduling It will he equipped with snow conflicts should arise. tires and a luggage rack. There The sign-tip for the use of the does exist a slight problem in van by any group will also that the van has a three-speed commence Monday at 9:00 a.m. (on the column) transmission. in the intramural office. Those This will make it necessary for signing up for early use should individuals to demonstrate their reali1e that if they have not ability to adequately drive such a · passed the test. they will be vehicle before hdng given its assigned a student driver. An keys. There ar-e, however, skilled Continued on Page 10 student drivers. grant-in-aid workers for the intramural department. who will be available to drive any organization to and from its destination, given ample notice. These students are to receive 374-5921 GEORGE'S MUSIC STORE Student Discounts 508 State St. Schenectady Union Pharmacy 600 Union St. Men & Women Student Needs 374-3605

Page4~------~----------------~--~~C~O~N~,C~O~R~D~lE~N~S~l~S~,~Wt~e~d~ne~$~d~ay~,~J,~an~,~2~/,~1~9~7~6-· ______________ ~--------------------- arts Interview: The artist as hero by FERN FLOMENHAFT In the Iliad, Achilles exemplifies the hero who choses between a short and glorious life and one that is long. Man has to die but he can add value to his life by the way he lives. Eugene Smith has chosen the more glorious. life (see page 3). Smith's latest project is a photojournal called Minamata. His photographs strip away all but the bitter reality, the tragic effects of mercury poisoning, emitted by the Chisu Corporation, on factory workers, · now hospital patients. \When I went there, I didn't know if my work would help the patients. My ,.intention was to use this as an example of a warning to the world.\ When asked about the final repercussions of Min(lmata, Smith told of the dire<,:t settlements in which the Chisu Co. paid $80,000,000 in retribution. \The Chisu Co. is struggling to stay in business and I hope they do. I didn't want to destroy them, I wanted them to accept their moral, legal responsibility.\ At Minamata, a harsh beating caused Smith to lose a good deal of his eyesight as well as health in general. He recaJis a particular incident: \Not two weeks after I was beaten, we went back to the same factory anti I tried to photograph. I couldn't hold the camera, and then I passed out. The last thin~ l remember was telling her (his wife Irene) I couldn't ... \ : Smith's career started early. His interest in photography ·stemmed from his original ambition to be an aircraft designer. In Wichita, Kansas, where he grew up, there was much aircraft activity. He \plagued\ a local news photographer for pictures of since I get so involved in my planes, and started accompanying photography, and give out so him,. helping him on assignments. much to it, 'I prefer to do those \In about six weeks, I was more kind of assignments where there is interested in photography than in a possibility of causing something aircraft designing.\ to happen, such as Minamata ... \ At the age of 14, Smith made For Smith, the strength of the an arrangement with his principal medium is determined by \the that he could leave school at any man that's doing it. I don't think time that he felt inspired to a photograph of mine has ever photograph. been improved by calling it art ... It has been said that \Smith's or degraded by saying it isn't art. boyhood was shattered by the l really don't give a damn whether sensationalist death'Ofhis father.\ you call it art or not.\ Reacting to this statement, Smith Asked to react to the. closing of explained, \Yes my father Life magazine, for which Smith, committed suicide; it wa& so himself, worked for some time, he distorted by the press that l lost described his struggle with the faith in the business, I have never magazine as well as his respect for quite figured o.ut the effect that Life. \I fought with Life for many 1 suicide had on me.\ Yet his early years but I wouldn~t have fought pictures dealt . larg~ly with with them if they had not been . tragedy, as well as with sports. such an imp0rtant magazine ... I The photographing of sports, think the whole country is worse he explained, helped' him to off as far as being educated, now develop a sense of timing and that Life is gene. I don~t think anticipation. television is, by any means, a When asked what has most replacement'. W. Eugene Smith: \I really don't give a damn if you call it art or not.'' influenced him as a photographer, Smith's proudest accom-. Smith replied, \Very few pli~hment was \The Nurse photographers have influenced Midwife.\ He feels Utis senes was Movie view: me as much as life itself. Next to far better photographed than~- --------- life, music and writing have been Minamata. Smith discussed his F •I d my two greatest teachers.\ subject:·· ... a magnificen:t W_Qtnan, I .lll stu . y: Many people believe that the doing a magnificent job under . function of photggr-aphy is merely very. difficult· circumstances. As a the reproduction or reality .. fulfilled human being, she is by g}. 0 · ·r·I·.f· - 1 .e· d sc· ·h·. · ·}.o·ck?. Eugene Smith's motives go far far the greatest human being I . . . . _ beyond the mechanical rendering have ever known.\ of a reality; he aspires to change At present, Smith is not expensive medium, it .is the most it. \A long time ago, l learned engaged in any project. He is by JACK PITNEY sensitive to commercial pressure sometimes that a photQgraph can struggling· with focusing Film courses are all the rage in and thus the least con(l.ucive to cause changes. I've often said that problems, a result of his damaged Amel'ican colleges. From artistic expression, photography is a very small voice, eyesight. \A year ago I was so Stanford to Slippery Rock, Ironically,. it is precisely the that there is so much, so many blind that they had a flight sent students are writing term papers paucity of motion picture artistry words, everything is kind of over to Tokyo to send me home on topics like \Christian that has made cinema such a <:oming down on us and we really ... \ \Very frankly,\ said Smith, ••1 Symbolism in A Fistful of smash in the classroom. Reading don•t listep anymore, and so to don't know whether I have Dollars\ or \The Marx Brothers a book or studying a painting attempt something, you must enough health to work onanotber and the American Dream.\ Yet gften takes quite a bit of effort. know that ifs an odds against you proJect ... My eyes and my for all their pseudo-scholarly But it's usually easy to watch a attempt, but sometimes it works. general health are such that I research, there's one thing they movie. You just sit back, eat your rve found that it has worked and don't know if I'll ever take haven't learned. popcorn and watch ·the story Oth r P! 'cture \ ·Most movies are simply · · 1 an · e ... unfold; your bram rare y gets unworthy of serious academic involved. That's an inviting study. prospect for college students. Skeller's Top -Tw·enty Why? The reason is quite Consequently, many convince simple. A movie must have ·a thellisevles that cinema represents broad appeal if its backers are to the effortless way to revelation. get a return on their investment. these students are but a part of Serious pictures like Cries and a larger movement that gl<>rifies Whispers rarely do well at the schlock in all its forms, from rock Most of you know ine from my past triumphs in the NCAA (the National Collegiate Asphalt Association) leading championship teams in Tar Laying and Tractor Driving. But now I find it necessary to lend my many talents to the hype (pronounced hip) music scene spreading across the country. (You see Tar Laying and musi: are related fields.) by ANGUS to this discourse is J.B. Wurlitzer. J.B. is not your basically normal person .... He's PURPLE and has flashing lights across his face. If you stick a quarter in his mouth he'll play your request in a perfect copy of the original. This is the dramatic story of J.B. and others like him whose continued daring bring us these songs. And now ... the TOP 20: , . . ·-.box office. Therefore, serious music to the theories of Erich von I. !hats the Way, K.C. & the projects rarely get ()ff the }lrawing Daniken. As the movement Sunshme Band board. And even when they do, · 2.. Brown Eyed Girl, · Van the filmmakers usually have to ~rows, the plight of intellectual· Morns~n make major ceimptomises for the discipline gets w<>rse. So in the 3. SO Ways To Leave Your sake of commercial success. coming years, a coll~ge education Lover, Paul Simon Naturally, the same {5inds of may well become a process by 4. Last Call, Th_e Skellar forces are at work in literature which nonsense is elevated to Shuffle Band and Chmr _ and music . But because film ~~~.a and mimls ;tre turned into 5. Taxi, Harry. \R:B\ Chapin (including t~levisiort) is the most 6. Suite: Judy Blue Eyes, CSN&Y 7. 18 With A Bullet, Pete Wingfield Photo-· 8. Born To Run, Bruce Sings teen -------~----.,.-----*- ..... , 9. US Blues, Greatful Dead ~ 10. Cosmic Debris, Frank The prolific purveyor pursuant graphics 'Let's help eG.Cb other. ¥ .\k Zappa ll. Everybody Out, Bobby * Gerber · · -1' 12. Mirage, Santana ~ * 13. You Sexy Thing, Hot .,.. L c:--t .l. dJ Chocolate -J( ,. '7Ift' -It Suucn.~ec.~ 'J 1'- -1 .,t 14. I'm Da Best, Spiny Richard · .S JClfpS .I( --/(.~rill\ ~ ., *' f- \'Y&lYeiz · · Seigal · j(i 'rf'S.fJj0~6._ 1r• *\If.. -k ]J\\a.c}(ltte .. St~~~s Gimme Shelter, Rolling .:._, .-: * ....~iii. *-it. ~,... /C 9ocot.eJ5 . 16. Stairway t<> Heaven, Led ·rr c:: c'l\ ,. *..A,; Zeppelin litl.{'\YOLu8.., .., 7< \' .. ,.._\If ., ;4.: \lll *\ 17. Melissa, Alldead Brothers Xrut.cCqrtiftec(!t; *~< * .. * -p~cord · Band ~ ;)\\ .. -/1 *\** \'t 1\' I . 18. Hi rm, Les Goldstein ue1JS~'j 'A '*' 11 ~'\* -lr., it *'-;,* ** ~ ..t,.. fl_z.bllft'l.S 19. These is Blues, Beast Thing· ;4: 1< \#( \'*'~\ -14 ... ~ ~*.;\* 1'\ · Thau Band \ * it * \' ., * S/tiJ-6~-~~ ':. 'IT €'itol:1-'c. -w That's the Way I Like It. See vtWZ.a ,. * * I~\\\ e J * / /lcen.- t . k B ther ..,;~aJtoi«Ct() -Jr '* v·~~.5a.. 11 * \ Otl;s\'\., · ~~ha~ext wee . e e. - \Photo/Graphics a traveling exhibition of twenty-five unusual prints using photography as an essential .. tool,\ will be displayed at the Onion College Gallery in Schaffer Libraty from Jan, 7 to Jan. 30. The show features 15 artists, including. Peter Milton, John Carter, Max He-in and Byron Burford. The artists are less concerned with\ pure form and color than with \telling a .story\ in their prints. They do this- by using photographs as \real\ reflections of the modern day combined with hand-drawn forms in the same frame. The Union· College Gallery is open from 2 to 5 p.rn. daily, except weekends and Mondays. + the .. · ·go_pd neighbor. TheA~ic:GnRed Crolis _ ~~o advtrtl.tng contribut.d for tht public good •U'l ;~miml••m•m•mt~ini•m••nllm•••m•llflilrnlii•~ il MIKE'S I .I E'RIE BLVD. I -s ~ = = . 5 HOT DOGS 5 = = -~ HAMBURGERS '§ - - - - ·§ BEST STEAK § ~ 5 ail SANDWICHES a = **** = = --- = .! 1135 Erie Blvd. ~ ~llllllllllllillllllllllllllllllllllllllllliliiii~U!IIliiii!!JP' ' re. F< m: S) dil rec rei Ial (S Lc fre re< ne· br dii Th m< tht syt lat \R COl pet dir grc sy1 Bee Scl brc thi cor Fir ha~ ~ witl desi Uni c pro \go. w~ ima witl WOl app touc greB stUd this to i · alu COin pub Coli M opel cam prin the WR conf obh broa Wa

a a ts ts CONCORDIENSIS. Wednesday, Jan. 21. 197~ Page5 / Classical notes: Bruckner's FOurth: his greatest? by JOHN KNU:DSEN . Record Review Bruckner, Symphony #4 in E flat major; The London Symphony Orchestra, Istvan Kertesz (STS 12589) In 1966, London Records released a tecording of Bruckner's Fourth Symphony in 'E flat major, performed by the london Symphony Orchestra under the direction of Istvan Kertesz. This recording has recently been re- released on London's budget label, Stereo Treasury Series (STS 12589). Although the London Symphony has, on frequent occasions, produced recordings of mediocre quality,. it nevertheless has its moments of briHiance when under the direction of a good conducto.r, This performance is one of those moments, and may very well be the best recording of this symphony available on a budget label. ihe Bruckner Fourth, or \Romantic Symphony,\ was completed in 1874, and first performed in l881. It stands in direct line of succession to the great Viennese classical sym phon i~ts, res.e m b ling Beethoven in i.ts form, and Schubert in its lyricism. In the broadest of terms, conguctors of this symphony invf!riahly confront . two basic problems. First, the oversized brass section has a tendency to overpower the . I(· .. rest of the orchestra. This imbalance takes away from the total unity of the work, and gives rise to the peculiar s~nsation of two performances .going on at once - one by brass; the other by orchestra. Secondly, the symphony is an hour long, and has a tendency to drag. In my mind Kertesz effectively deals with both of these problems. Throughout, brass a11d orchestra mesh very nicely indeed, while monotony is avoided through frequent alterations in the tempo. Overall, the performance is remarkably .precise, with tight chords and very few bad entrances. The first movement is based on two sharply contrasting groups of themes, the one terse,. the other lyrical. The main theme is giVen out by horns against a background of strings. From this springs the second theme, a rhythmic figure that appears in both ascending and descending form. As the tension builds up in the strings, Kertesz wisely holds back the .brass section so as to im~rease the intensity of its power at the more climactic moments that appear later on. Nevertheless, the most outstandiQg· aspect .of this movement is the pe:rformance of the London string section. It is here that · we sense Bruckner's tremendous fascination with natU~e - his love of its beauty and his wonderment at its mystery .. ... • . '[I' The Andante is comparable to the third movement of the Beetchoven Ninth in form, and must therefore he handled with great care. Although smaller in scope than some of Bruckner's slow movements, it is highly characterist-ic, and demonstrates that the compo~er could write music that is both simple, yet profound:· Admittedly, the triumphant resolution of the brass at the close @f the movement is somewhat disappointing. However, Kertesz handles the rest of the movement with delicacy and precision. Once again, the London string section performs admirably, creating a sound that is most refreshing in its strength and simplicity. Bruckner never failed to write an exciting scherzo, and the third movement of the Fotirth is one of his best. This movement contains rousing fanfares, and a beautiful trio reminiscent of the Austrian countryside. Here we feel the revelry and festivity of a country gathering, or perhaps the excitement of an English fox hunt, On the whole, Kertesz handles the movement well, despite the fact that the brass sounds somewhat restrained at times. . The finale. begins . with_ a menacing descending figure on horns and .clarinets, and subsequently breaks into a triumphant re.P.~tition · of the Continued on Page 9 WRUC wradio wradiates wrevisions by AMY SEID WR UC is starting· this term with new plans and innovations designed to improve and expand Union's radio station. One of the most exciting prospects for the near future is \going 10 kilowatts.\ Presently, WRVC-FM cover.s approx- imately a two-mile.. radius; with the increased power, WRUC would have a broadcast area approaching eighty miles, touching on five states. There is a great deal of sUpport among stUdents, and administration for this expansion, which could lead to increased applications, better ·alumni relations and communications, and broader publif knowledge of Union College. programming from coverage of junior varsity sports, to news, to a trivia show. At the same time, to insure higher quality FM broadcasting, WRUC is temporarily cutting its hours, allowing only the most.competent disc jockeys on the air, while intensively training the others. In conjunction with this, WRUC is working on more creative programming, including sports line and interviews. The ultimate goal for WRUC is twenty-four hour broadcasting, but that will come gradually, first on the weekends and, pending success, on an everyday basis, by spring ternL WRUC is attempting, to provide a variety of new services. The station operates· a four~ channel recording studio which is available for use to the entire student body. The student can walk up to the station and set up an appointment with the production staff to record. In order to bring a more homey atmosphere ~to Carnegie Hall, there has been a proposal to put together a lounge on the second floor, right outside the station. The lounge would be. replete with turntables and a record library, totally engineered by WRUC. arts Friday's Coffeehouse: Ruth does it again! Records: 'Desire:: ·Dylan's best DON ROSENBAUM Desire is the album of new songs that Bob Dylan performed on the Rolling Thunder ReVue, his latest. small-hall tour. Word from the tour was that Dylan was presenting yet another facet of himself: a cheerful side, a performer dancing around the stage to his own music. I was skeptical of the reports. I could accept an upbeat Dylan, but dancing to his music? My doubts were unfounded. I the ·liner notes, Alan Ginsburg describes. Desire as \Songs of Redemption.\ ihe tenor of the album is one of settling down. pylan will continue to fight and serenade as in \Hurricane\ and .. Joey,\ but he is through wandering. The .point is made most forcefully in the sing \Isis which deals with Dylan's fruitless and self-destructive search for his roots: She said, \Where you been?\ l said, \No place special.\ ·Bob Dylan admitting he'll stay, and face the possibility of being burned himself? This is a new switch. \Isis\ and \Oh Sar~\·are both apologies to his wife for past troubles, now past. He owes her for her patience. and he's back t.o pay off. The instrumentation is unlike any other album of Dylan's. The addition of violinist Scarlet Rivera is a welcome change. She adds a lilting, soaring ~hythmic .touch that is just what's needed. Also, When is the last time you heard Dylan try to sing in harmony? (Nashville Skyline, and on that it failed to come off.) Here Emmylou Harris joins him, and the mix of voices is perfect. \One More Cup of Coffee\ could have been only a whiney song, but Ms. Harris helps turn it into the haunt·ing, Hebraic tune that it is. Even Dylan's harmonica is almost in tune! Meanwhile, WRUC 'is still operating an AM station on campus. This will be used primarily as a training ground for the less experienced members of WRUC until they have the confidence and know-how to obtain FM licenses. They broadcast a 'full .. scope of Women .in Art She said, \You look different.\ . l said, \Well l guess.\ · She said, \You'vt> been gone.\ l said, \That's only natural.\ She said, \You gonna stay?\ There are those who say that Bob Dylan's songs reflect the prevailing mood among American Youth. If that>s true, American Youth must be feeling pretty good. because Desire may be the best Dylan ever. and is certainly the best in a long, long time. I THE FILM COMMITTEE PRESENTS Fri., Sat., SUn. at 7, 9 and 11 The Front Page Walter Mathau, Jack Lemmon· 75¢ . And On Tuesday: The Thomas Crown .Affair at 8 & 10 . SOe by DIANE NELSON . Thursday, January 15 was the date for the Union College Women's Week- Art Show. The show, on display in the student -·activities ·office, Was organized by Union stUdent Teri Barash. It included the works ·of Onion students and faculty wives. A diversified assortment of art work, including photography, drawings, . paintings, pottery, FOR UQUOR AND WINE Try Jdce Lipstein's 464 Statt Street ........... needlepoint,. knitting, and silk screening were included in the exhibition. Noteworthy were three photographs by Cindy Wolfson. The three. photographs were pertraits, one of a child, one of a workman, and the third of an elderly man. They were extremely living works, and gave a vivid feeling of the people portrayed. Also of interest were two small landscape drawings ·by Jane Levine. The landscapes were delicate and detailed. 'Arlene Baker's two silk screens were also impressive. llfustrating the diversity of the show were two fine knit sweaters by Karen Williams. . Unfortunately, the art show was relatively small. The works on display were praiseworthy but it is too bad more Women did not become involved. Assuredly there is stiH more hidden artistic talent among Union College women. l said, \((you want me to, Yes.\ JANUARY 22 Shows at 9:00 and 11:00 P.M. Tiekets on sale at 8:00 P.M. in Carnegie Hall This Week CABARET Presents Professor Hugh Allen Wilson and Sara Fenimore performing a har sichord duo

Page6 ---------'~--------~ • • • vtewpotnt us:e you.r paper wisely Having put out the first issue of the terrn we noticed something rather alarming. Last week'.s paper contained an ar-ticle on President Bonner's . . future plans, an article on student government, one on the fact that the Social Committee_ /has no planned concerts for this term, and an editorial on Camp Ed etc .... None of these evoked any response from. the campus community. While it's. our function to bring you the news, it is your function as a member of the community to respond to and share your views on campus matters. Concordy doesn't want to be a bulletin board; a sounding board would be much nicer .. It may seem useless by now to kick a dead b.orse, but community participation (cringe) is an issue that shouldn't die. This plan· to have students fulfill two of their graduation requirements through some sort of non ... academic actjvity was probably doomed from the start: the majority of Union students didn't want a force-fed extra-curricular requirement while the faculty probably believed . that only academic work should be credited on trans~ripts. Under examination, we see that the participation requirement was never really a requirement at all: any student- who decided not to fulfill his or her two credits would not have been penalized - the transcript would have shown a ·blank. Also, the motive behind the proposal didn't involve a . threat to participate, but rather an attempt to develop some of the still-latent talents of perennially non- active students. The Participation proposal will be resurfacing soon in a streamlined form before the College Senate. The editors of Concordiensis believe the measure 1s a healthy one and urge all students to support it. not dead yet Since time immemorial a student facing academic review has been told that no other student could be present during his hearing. While this policy is obviously intended to prevent any breach of the, reviewed student's personal affairs, it is also implicit in the policy that faculty members and administrators are much better at keeping academic secrets than students. The policy seems to ignore consideration of any enlightening information that another student might bring to bear in a specific case. It also neglects a reviewed student's right to provide any outside information he feels might clarify his posttJOn. Concordiensis regrets the recent College Senate decision to continue the status quo and hopes that the Committee on Student Standing will vote to give students the option of deciding the privacy of their own cases. While privacy should continue to be protected. each individual must retain the right to freedom of choice. _ CONCORDJENS/S,,tWednesday, Jan 21, 1976 Opinion: The grad school scuttle . . ·' bJ'. PETER SOBOL Ttie. scene is in the Admissions Staff of Wallowing University. Two officers are at this moment discussing the application of one Ed Menke for acceptance into ;1. graduate program. The TOEFL? The MCAt? The prolix polemic~' DATI\ · '\Damn it, th~t's, enough! \yeah. all of them. There's Throw the. whole thing in the h . f th DOA \ trash before l lose what's left of even a score ere or . e .· . ·_ . \What? There's no such thing.\ my lunch. Jesus, when are these \The guy's a comedian. Ten phony liberal- a:rts diploma mills point~off.\ gonna send us kids who .are in it \All fight, wh0's next? And let's ma:ke this one quick. There's a good flick on the t1,1be tonight\ \Right. What's next?\ for its own sa*¢? lf J see another · \His transcript looks like 4-pplication fr0m a· professional someone was pr3,cticing how to student. t'll. ~ what are . you \Okay. The next applicant is Menke, Edouard P., Queens, New York, 212-546-1954, height 5'6?', Weight-\ write the letter A\ looking at me like that for?'' \I get the picture. Ever skipped '~Weil, tht! kid~s academically a term,. or anything · like ihat? sound. His -· recommendations Any interesting summer work?\ . dicl·n't paint h:hri· as any kind of \Blank.\ criminal. And he can pay ·his own \Let's hea·r some choice way,. And you know what 'trouble \Oh skip that stuff.\ \Okay. Uh, expects bachelors d-egree from Union College in Schenectady;\ \Never heard ofthe place ... \ ••J think it's a school for smart hockey players or something.''. \Well what's he got -to s~~oy for himslf. Did he take the GRE?\ \Yeah.\ _ \The MAT?\ \Yeah.\ \The A TSGB? The LSA T? Opini!Jn~· excerpts from his essay.\ the schoal is in with money and \There's _ plenty .of them.. all that stuff .,.;•• Listen: ' .. :my intense and \Maybe You're right, but we're - extensive ass·ociatio.n with the all going down the dr ... Wait a intricacies~ .and facets ef this- minute! Look!\ exceedingly abst·tuse and' · . \He forgot to sign· the stupid convoluted subsection· of. thing!'' endeavor ultimatei.y indUces to .. ''Right! And that\ puts him the concomniitant - .conclusion, t~ght 9ut of her¢. Can I borr.ow which cannot be obnubilated by yout lighter for a minute?\ · -\Here; keep it. I-'ve. got an-other.'' The •ou-tch' what? by JONATHAN SCHEER After laboring for days, the committee to select the name of the not-yet-ready restaurant pub has chosen what it believes to be the most suitable name for that establishment. It is indeed a tribute to the committee system that so arduous a task can be completed so quickly an(! that such tangible results'can be seen from their work. The committee has chosen ''The Dutch Hol1ow\ as the most appropriate epithet to be, cast over the do-o.r of this celebrated retreat. The firs.t question which comes to mind is, of course, why ''The Dutch Hollow?\ The ansWer is not at all clear. It certainly isn't a catchy phrase (as opposed to, for example, Nott Pub, Nott Food, and Nott Saga), a·nd it is not one which is likely to be bandied about campus. ~'The Hollow,\ Perhaps it refers to the fact as one student suggested, that the basement of Carnegie Hall is, in fact, hollow (an obvious. though nonetheless astute observation). It certainly is, as Webster would a;gree, .. a low spot surroun.ded by elevations.\ But this seems an unsuitable explanation. Furthermore. those on the committee surely did not choose ''The Hollow\ because they hoped' it would denote, as Webster · says ·-it should, something \empty vacant, or void,\ or \devoid of an¥ worth, value, significance. or purpose.\ \The Hollow.\ The hollow tree perhaps? \The Dutch Hollow.\ Ah, the Dutch ehn tree, that beautiful creature that once women's week adorned our campus .. , there's the -connection! The Dutch elms, hollowed by their untimely demise at the hands of -the disease ·which bear their name, are. being gloriously ressurrected in' the name of ... a restaurant? . Unlikely. the question still - · remains. - The best answer (and a poor one at that) may very well be: why not. If nothing else, it is reassuring to know that \The D1,1tch Hollow~· is not so controve:tsial a name as to force a delay in the opening of the pub until a less offensive title could be · agreed· upon (rumor has it that, in an effort to nip aH impending controversy in the bud, Dean Smith submitted \The Dutch Tiger\ for e<onsideratiorr). After all, no serious problems are likely to arise because of the name, at least none like those which ·might develop over money. Not money to build \The Hallow,\ but mone_y .to support it. ·It takes doHars to run. a resta1,1rant, as -it does an ice rink ---'- much to \the dismay of those budgeters who are faced with ' the real possibility of having to · Concordiensis would like to take this pump.College funds into therink • • to keep it afloat. But we_ do not opportumty to congr~tula-te all thosee responsible nave to worry about money now, for the success of the recently completed \Women~s the pub will not be open f~r at least a month. Week.'' The week displayed a conscientious effo'rt. tJitirrui.~Iy, as that Iuc}<y towards . illuminating the alternatives and decisions winner sits back and counts his faced by all women. fifty bills, we can consider Blood Drive There will be a blood drive on Wednesday. February 4, in Alumni Cvm. The fo.rmat is different fr~m pa~t visits because twice as mai1V Red Cross .penonncl will be on hand. 300 people can no\\ donate in one day instead of the usual two day visit. Please give this drive your s u p.p o rt by ma kin g an appointment to give on February 4 between II a.m. and 5 p.m. Appointment~ can be made in Mrs. MaHa's office any weekday between 8:30 a,in, and 5 p.m. ourselves fortunate that name aside. it's not S.aga. . ' . \ t 1 :.,·~ :; ·, . ' - . . J; \ • 1

Paf?e 6 ---------- ___ _________________ £0NCORDIENS/S,, Wednesday, Jan. 21, 1976 • • VIewpoint . ' .. : . ~ . . . .• . ' .. ~ .. . . use your paper wisely Having put out the first issue of the term we noticed something rather alarming. Last week's paper contained an article on President Bonner's future plans, an article on student government, one on the fact that the Social Committee has no planned concerts for this term, and an editorial on Comp Ed etc .... None of these evoked any response from the campus community. While it's our function to bring you the news, it is your function as a member of the community to respond to and share your views on campus matters. Concordy doesn't want to be a bulletin board; a sounding board would be much nicer. Opinion: The grad school scuttle The scene is ir1 the Admissions Staff of Wallowing University. Two officers are at this moment discussing the application of one Ed Menke for acceptance into a graduate program. \All right. who's next? And let's make this one quick. There's a good flick on the tuhe tonight.\ \Okay. The next applicant is Menke. Edouard P.. Queens, New York. 212-546-1954. height 5'6\. weight-\ \Oh. skip that stuff.\ \Okay. Uh. expects bachelors degree from Union College in Schenectady.\ \Never heard of the place ... \ \I think it's a school for smart hockey players or something.\ \Well. what's he got to say for himslf. Did he take the GRE?\ \Yeah.\ \The MAT?\ \Yeah.\ by_PETER SOBOL The TOEFL? The MCAT? The DAT?\ \veah. all of them. There's eve~ a score here for the DOA.\ \What? There's no such thing.\ \The guy's a comedian. Ten points off.\ \Right. What's next?\ \His transcript looks like someone was practicing how to write the letter A.\ \I get the picture. Ever skipped a term, or anything like that? Any interesting summer work?\ \Blank.\ \Let's hear some choice excerpts from his essay.\ \There's plenty of them. Listen: ' ... my intense and extensive association with the intricacies and facets of this exceedingly abstruse and convoluted subsection of prolix polemic-' \Damn it, that's enough! Throw the whole thing in the trash hefore I lose what's left of my lunch. Jesus, when are these phony liberal arts diploma mills gonna send us kids who are in it for its own sake? If I see another application from a professional student I'll - what are vou looking at me like that for?\ · \Well the kid's academically sound. His recommendations didn't paint him as any kind of criminal. And he can pay his own way. And you know what trouble the school is in with money and all that stuff ... \ \Maybe you're right. but we're all going down the dr ... Wait a minute! Look!\ \He forgot to sign the stupid thing!\ freedom of choice \The A TSG B? The LSA T? endeavor ultimately induces to the concommitant conclusion, which cannot be obnubilated by \Right! And that puts him right out of here. Can I borrow your lighter for a minute?\ \Here. keep it. I've got another.\ It may seem useless by now to kick a dead horse, but community participation (cringe) is an issue that shouldn't die. This plan to have students fulfill two of their graduation requirements through some sort of non-academic activity was probably doomed from the start: the majority of Union students didn't want a force-fed extra-curricular requirement while the faculty probably believed that only academic work should be credited on transcripts. Under examination, we see that the participation requirement was never really a requirement at all: any student who decided not to fulfiii his or her two credits would not have been penalized - the transcript would have shown a blank. Also, the motive behind the proposal didn't involve a threat to participate, but rather an attempt to develop some of the still-latent talents of perennially non- active students. The Participation proposal will be resurfacing soon in a streamlined form before the College Senate. The editors of Concordiensis believe the measure Is a healthy one and urge all students to support it. not dead yet Since time immemorial a student facing academic review has been told that no other student could be present during his hearing. While this policy is obviously intended to prevent any breach of the reviewed student's personal affairs, it is also implicit in the policy that faculty members and administrators are much better at keeping academic secrets than students. The policy seems to ignore consideration of any enlightening information that another student might bring to bear in a specific case. It also neglects a reviewed student's right to provide any outside information he feels might clarify his pos1t1on. Concordiensis regrets the recent College Senate decision to continue the ~tatus quo and hopes that the Committee on Student Standing will vote to give students the option of deciding the privacy of their own cases. While privacy should continue to he protected, each indi\'idual must retain the right to freedom of choice. Opinion: The 'Dutch' what? by JONATHAN SCHEER After laboring for days. the committee to select the name of the not-yet-ready restaurant pub has chosen what it believes to be the most suitable name for that establishment. It is indeed a tribute to the committee system that so arduous a task can be completed so quickly and that such tangible results· can be seen from their work. The committee has chosen \The Dutch Hollow\ as the most appropriate epithet to be cast over the door of this celebrated retreat. The first question which comes to mind is. of course, why \The Dutch Hollow?\ The answer is not at all clear. It certainly isn't a catchy phrase (as opposed to. for example, Nott Pub. Nott Food, and Nott Saga), and it is not one which is likelv to be bandied about campus. · \The Hollow.\ Perhaps it refers to the fact as one student suggested, that the basement of Carnegie Hall is, in fact. hollow (an obvious. though nonetheless astute observation). It certainly is. as Webster would agree, \~ low spot surrounded by elevations.\ But this seems an unsuitable explanation. Furthermore. those on the committee surely did not choose \The Hollow\ because they hoped it would denote, as Webster says it should. something \empty vacant, or void,\ or \devoid of any worth, value, significance. or purpose.\ \The Hollow.\ The hollow tree perhaps? \The Dutch Hollow.\ Ah, the Dutch elm tree, that beautiful creature that once women's week Concordiensis would like to take this opportunity to congratulate all thosee responsible for the success of the recently completed \Women's Week.\ The week displayed a conscientious effort towards illuminating the alternatives and decisions faced hy all women. Blood Drive There will he a hlood drive on Wedne~day. Fehruary 4, in Alumni G\m. The format is different from ra~t \i~its hecause twice a\ manv Red Cross personnel v. ill he on hand. 300 people can 110\\ donate in one dnv instead nf the U<;Ual two dav visit. Please give this drive you-r -,upport hy making an appointment to give on February 4 hetween 11 a.m. and 5 p.m. Appointment\ can he made in Mrs. Marra's office any weekday hetween lUO a.m. and 5 p.m. berthold ~ditors, Con£ordiensis: I was very disappointed at the discovery that Professor Huward Berthold was denied tenure. I do not claim to be an expert on this subject. yet I ct>nsider myself a discriminating enough Judge .(jf character and teacnirtg abilities to be greatly surprised at this decision. ~rofess<>r Berthold is definitely an asset to the Psychology Department of Union College and to the College as a whole. He is very attentive to students. has a unique and illustrative manner of presenting concepts, and is generally person.ab·le. H.e is- quite lmowledgea~te- in his field and \has several published articles in. adorned our campus ... there's the connection! The Dutch elms. hollowed hv their untime lv demise at the hands of th~ disease which bear their name. are being gloriouslv ressurrected in the name of ... -a restaurant? Unlikely. the question still remains. The best answer (and a poor one at that) mav verv well be: why not. If nothing -else, it is reassuring to know that \The Dutch Hollow\ is not so controversial a name as to force a delay in the opening of the pub until a less offensive title could be agreed upon (rumor has it that. in an effort to nip all impending controversy in the bud, Dean Smith submitted \The Dutch Tiger\ for consideration). After all, no serious problems are likely to arise because of the name, at least none like those which might develop over money. Not money to build \The Hollow.\ but money to support it. It takes dollars to run a restaurant. as it does an ice rink - much to the dismay of those budgeters who are faced with the real possibility of having to pump College funds into the rink to keep it afloat. But we do not have to worrv ahout monev now the pub wilt\ not be open. for at least a month. Ultimately, as that lucky winner sits hack and counts his fifty hills. we can consider ourselves fortunate that. name aside. it's not Saga. that his stud.ents. t ~· t 'i·· .. ' ' , I undertaken, · .suggesting way~ oi compiling and evaluating their data. I am speaking for every .... student who has had him for a ' teacher when I say' ~ Let's not' · lose ProfessmjBerthold. · Sincerelv. Joanna Bornstein •: women's week Editors, Concordiensis: We who have planne Womeii's Week, have. oh<:P'I\V.I'\tl the Union and Schenectady · comtnunitie;;; take the first towards awareness by, -participating in '!he events of the week: · _ .1l N:&w the leatriing proces~ n·,,,.,., -, a,. . . t·o s: ·~ lf Y< on cont Caw t Levd Mes! 1 The Edi I frot rep1 scri

the of ese it nal of ble · a e ? - 1 ~ . I t 1 :~·~ 111-<: .l f ~ ~ . ·. {' · ~\· CONCORDIENSIS, Wednesday, Jan. 21, 1976 Page 7 .LA./4!~(., ~~ .1(./C'/r (i;oJ#6- :ro NAU... /1£.< ,A:J,<_ Jr: \ '\' ,#0,' { U~nion at the tri-centennial In this Sicentermial Year, we celebrate our past, perhaps in the hope of forgetting our present. But what . will be said about our achievements one hundred years from now? If the cpast provides insight .for · understanding the present predicament, we can be further illuminated knowing what r will be said in the future. Our Concordy staff pull~d out the ouija board and moved to the year 2076. B~Iow are the discoveries: Schenectady, ·.N.Y. PsychOlogy students are still recommended to take Professor Graves course \Theory of ! .... by VI Pt,!rsonality .\ Since 1976 Professor Graves has added 27 new levels to human existence, and he reports that he is still on the highest level. New York City The state uncovered documents · last week, which Columbia economists say accounted fo.r the . city•s brush with default in 1975. was forced to share space with the The cache - two filing cabinets Cam pus Book~ tore . 0 n filled with unpaid speeding tickets commemorating the 1 OOth in the name of Charles Gati. anniversary of their dislocation, Princeton,. New Jersey the group renamed themsevles the Spokesmen for the Educational · \Bookshelf Brigade.\ Testing Service released reports New Haven, Conn. today showing .a continuous Speaking before the Union uownward trend. bf' high school College Alumni Association, scores. For the year 2075, the Craig Carlson 111 announced Idyllic Camp ·union . national average in math wa:s 256! plans to .. forge ahead\ with plans while verbal scores averaged 241. to build a pub for the campus. In .. These kids are morons,\\ one outlining the architectural plans, spokesman added.· Ancother Carlson noted that the Pub would official, however, called for a combine century-old design with revision of the 1949 testing abstract innovations. standard. Schenectady undergoing a .. by Vl is · once more was uncovered for wnat it was, a revolution of den of \ineq~ity.'~ Eve n morality. Rec.ently, the Fantasia . Schenectady's son and State Massage Parlor oil Union Street Senator Fred Isabella has introduced legislation aimed at curbing prostitution and other evil deeds threatening the national security. Fear not, \Camelot\ is arriving at Union College to preserve indivi-dual liberties. Union College, mother of fraternities, now offers a \fun filled summer of recreation, weight-loss, health and beauty.\ The summer program is actually run by a Long Island couple, Thelma and Joseph Hurwitz, for teenagers, 13•17, and young ladies, 18-25. We are told that Union's summer fiesta doesn't have any sexual overtones~ alas, for an advertisement appeared ill the New York Times Magazine, under \Camping.\ Union is an ideal ·location for camping activities. Imagine: shedding unsightly pounds under the shade of the magestic Ginko in Jackson's Gardens; Thrill to canoe rides down the rapids of the \brook that bounds\; Curl up to your loved one in Achilles Rink; Jog bac.k to health aroUnd the World's only 16 sided building; Oine on sumptuous meals prepared by the internationally famous La Saga Kitchens. Nott Schenectady The first floor of Ame~ica's only 16-sided building was condemned today by city building inspector- Neal N. Carpenter. The second floor, condemned shortly after the third floor was .found unsafe. in 1976, was slated for renovation in 1980. Because of a shortage of funds, the College's Theatrical Group, Mountebanks, Schenectady, N.Y. Union College initiated a new system this week for distributing 1300 hockey tickets to the student body. Despite claims that the ticket supply is inadequate, students are advised that three students could share each seat, thus promoting a sense of community. union C d• • college oncor tensts EDITORS-IN-CHIEF ...................................... Mike Affinito. Davie:! Moskowit7 CULTURE .......................................................... Sue Finkelstein, Diane Nelson NEWS-FEATURES ......................................... Audrey Rothschild, Sue Draper. Chris O'Connor SPORTS ...................................................... Charlie Flanagan, John Busterud. Allyne Price LAYOUT ........................................................................................ Lance Travis ClASSIFIED PAGE ....................................................................... Todd Miller COPY ............................................................................................... Phil Alcabes ART T ~'ter W~i\ CALENDAR.., .......................................... , ................................ Shervl Farber BL:SJ:>iESS MA:\AGI:R ................................................ , ....... Rhonda Kaplan SI'BS('RIJ>TlONS.. . . .. .... ............... .. ....................... Shellc} Gold NATIONAL ADS ............................................................................. Steve Kelly Cfl'\;TR IRI ·1r•-.;c; r ))Jl OR JJtk 1'1tn~ 1 C!RC(II 1\TJON lne r·arrnerin PHOTOGRAPHY................. . .. Mike Marh. Tom Welle,, .Don Hamer. 1n. STAFF THIS ISS !IF . ·\n \1•lkr. Rud~ I u,.O.t.lc (i,,,,m.Jn. Greg Cohen. Mike Rntundi. Ke1in <;;chan rllen Radack. Le; Trachtman. Tony Romanaui. Rnh \l,•ncf,rhein .. ............. Glenn Wolf>on. Kellej '\Iewton. Bill Perk. Barhara 'haplr<'. Chcr) I I Jnkcl. RR Thau . .lo~ Cappuccio. Fd Menke. Da1e :0.dnder-.on. Peter Sotlol. Mall Bnct. Dan Ro>cnhalllll. \rnit· Hiller. fern rf,,,,\\''·'ft. \;c,.J ·\ Sdm.ut;. Rill Hen\''' The \Camelot\ program has n0t been publicized in Schenectady, but Concordy learned that tickets may be picked up at Achilles Rink on Friday, January 23. Only a limited supply Is available for students as college officials explain, \We need sales. CONCORDIENSIS is published every Wednesday by the This is a money making student bod~ of O'nio11 College, Old Gym Hall, Schenectady, proposition.\ N.Y.; to whach Postal Forms 3579 are directed. Publications Actually, Camelot is in no way · Office: The Jewish World . Publitations, 416 Smith St., connected with the College. Schenectady, N.Y. 12305(370-5483)~ E.ntered in the Schenectady Facilities are rented out for the Post Office as Seco!'d ('lass Matter .. Subscription Rate 35 cents summer on campus. The program per copy. $8.00 a year deliwered anywhere in' the United States. begins June 30, and runs through l .. ••••llll•••••llllilllli••••••' ••••••• August 18. _,

of ills it ou lly of ble nd 're a <· I . ' T ' ' have~. ways oi .. ng their\. · every .. for a not' CONCORD!ENSIS, Wednesday, Jan. 21, 1976 Pa~e 7 /I?~A~~~y -ro ,tOCAY ..$~ 6- &~'C ~ \\ .Po-' z~ 77'Jl.,t... ho~K.i}J6- <W 7111$ PA~.c,<, I $-'{X( 1 \II( .&f:.FJ.J CI.JI(;T;JJ6- 77-<AT \7Nj;J~ ,A?C.. .!.A41(, '{oc.A... ..5 H~<AL'U e..e: l'\l-JJ· 1-\if:~ B\.(' 1-JCIW - .f cue>tltD //All: 1'9.0$1/,£~ AtSt.XiJ -,h/~£ NoAA!' AG-O .rr' ,.riA,<y' 5\10/¥f£1> UJE'L--L I ~i<£ L/O\r r:;;:o;.u? ro HAr,c. fi£..< .,.CO-<_ if- \ .. ,~0 .. , I Dateline 2076: Union at the tri-centennial In this Bicentennial Year, we celebrate our past, perhaps in the hope of forgetting our present. But what will be said about our achievements one hundred years from now? If the past provides insight for understanding the present predicament, we can be further illuminated knowing what .. will be said in the future. Our Concordy staff pulled out the ouija board and moved to the year 2076. Below are the discoveries: Schenectady, N.Y. Psychology students are still recommended to take Professor Graves course \Theory of by VI Personality.\ Since 1976 Professor Graves has added 27 · new levels to human existence, and he reports that he is still on the highest level. New York City The state uncovered documents last week, which Columbia economists say accounted for the Idyllic Camp ·union by VI Schenectady undergoing a is once more was uncovered for what it was, a revolution of den of \inequity.\ Even . EnJOY a fun-filled summer of recreation. weight-loss. health and beauty. Individual specialized mstruclion '\ Tenms. Golf. Horseback ndmg and all other land and water sports. Also cuHural. creative and performing arts. UMION COLLEGE, S*•ctady, NY • UMIY. N. CAIOUitA, fllllilgtea. HC GORDON COlUGE, Cape All, Mass. • WHITTIER COLLEGE, Wittier, taL morality. Recently, the Fantasia Massage Parlor on Union Street to study specific problem areas. If you are interested in working on these committees, please contact us through the Women's Caucus, Box Z039; or, call Diana Leyden. 370~6638 · or Joanne MessiJ'Ia, 370~6584. Schenectady's Senator Fn.:d son and Isabella State has introduced legislation aimed at curbing prostitution and other evil deeds threatening the national security. Fear not, \Camelot\ is arriving at Union College to preserve indivi-dual liberties. Union College, mother of fraternities, now offers a \fun filled summer of recreation, weight-loss, health and beauty.\ The summer program is actually run by a Long Island couple, Thelma and Joseph Hurwitz. for teenagers, 13-17, and young ladies. 18-25. We are told that Union's summer fiesta doesn't have any sexual overtones. alas, for an advertisement appeared in the New York Times Magazine, under \Camping.\ city's brush with default in 1975. The cache -- two filing cabinets filled with unpaid speeding tickets in the name of Charles Gati. Princeton, New Jersey Spokesmen for the Educational Testing Service released reports today showing a continuous downward trend of high school scores. For the year 2075, the national average in math was 256, while verbal scores averaged 24 I. \These kids are morons,\ one spokesman added. Another official, however, called for a revision of the 1949 testing standard. Nott Schenectady The first floor of America's only 16-sided building was condemned today by city building inspector Neal N. Carpenter. The second floor, condemned shortly after the third floor was found unsafe, in 1976, was slated for renovation in 1980. Because of a shortage of funds, the College's Theatrical Group, Mountebanks, was forced to share space with the Campus Bookstore. On commemorating the 1 OOth anniversary of their dislocation, the group renamed themsevles the \Bookshelf Brigade.\' New Haven, Conn. Speaking before the Union College Alumni Association, Craig Carlson III announced plans to \forge ahead\ with plans to build a pub for the campus. In outlining the architectural plans, Carlson noted that the Pub would combine century-old design with abstract innovations. Schenectady, N.Y. Union College initiated a new system this week for distributing 1300 hockey tickets to the student body. Despite claims that the ticket supply is inadequate, students are advised that three students could share each seat, thus promoting a sense of community. union C d• college oncor tensis FDITORS-I\i -C'HIFF C'l'I Tl'RF .... '\'FWS-FF A Tl' R FS SPORTS I <\YO!'T C'l <\SSIHFD P·\(iF COPY ·\R I < ·\I l'\!HR Rl'<.;I'\J·<.;<.; 1\1·\\.-\(,f R <.;! B<.;CRIPI 10\\S \\-\110\.·\1 ·\DS CO\\ I RIB! I !\.!i FPI TOR Cll~ct I \ITO\\ l'llO I O< ,R \I' H) Mikt> <\ffinitn. Da\ld \fn,k<'\~117 Sue Finkel\tem. D1ane \\ehon -\udre\ R<'lh,c·hrld. Sue Draper. Chn' O'Cnnnc'r Charl1e Flanag;m . .l<'hn Ru,terud. ·\ll,nc Pnce Lmce T ra\1' r •• dd \liller Phd ·\lethe, f l''tl'T \\.'t.'l'' ...; h,·\ I I .n [>,., Rh,,nJ.r !l..tpi.JTJ <.;he-lle\ ( ,,,td Sine !l.t'ih l.~o .. k P1trt;.'\ Sincerely, . l The Committee on W omen~s admired thts acton work in such prodw;:tions as \Theo Exxon Connection\ and, tnost recently, · in the 1975 re~make of the previously long~running \Governance System:\ hut as anyone in the business can tell you. Enteman has been consfsteJ1tly type-cast as a corporate \heavy.'' the very embodiment of the \svstem.\ He wou1Q be pe1fect for· the part of Commissar of Master Planning or the role of Chairman of State Seq.trity, but not for a comedic Solt.henitsyn singing anti .. system · songs set to the ·melody of \West Side Story.\ Tf Union Studios insists on playing fast and loose with rny eharacterh:ations. they can find somebody else to script \Siberia H.\ Union is an ideal location for camping actiVlttcs. Imagine: shedding unsightly pounds under the shade of the magestic Ginko in Jackson's Gardens; Thrill to canoe rides down the rapids of the \hrook that hounds\; Curl up to your loved one in Achilles Rink; Jog hack to health around the world's only 16 sided building; Dine on sumptuous meals prepared by the internationally famous La Saga Kitchens. \lrk,· \l.uk- I <111~ w,·lk-. ll.•n '\\'\''·Ill. \rt \1J!kr. R11d' lu. 0.1\c (ir'\'m.u: (lrcg c.,hl'n. \11~~· R·'itiPdJ. Kt'\lf1 ''-',·~'' lllen R.tdo~~:k. I~,.·.., l r.t~.htm.in. T ~,n, R,,m.ItLl/!1. Wet! II: siberia II Editors, Conc<mliensis: l .was .flabbergasted to leam from columnist Jack Pitney's report on the shooting of .my script tor the musica1 comedv · \Sibef'ia•\' (adapted frorif Soltht:nitsyn's ~olag). that the weft known l!hatacter aCtor Wrllard · ErHefil!lm . has beert ea~t $®:1:~b't¥1~!t~~~fi.·t···::' .,. t .:-lt~ypt·~ J'QM' Sittcerely, , R~bett Sh~trJ~t . -,' - ·_ . _:-, . : The \Camelot'' program has not heen publicized in Schenectady, but Concordy learned that tickets may be picked up at Achilles Rink on Friday, January 23. Only a limited supply is available lor students as college officials explain. \We need sales. This is a money making proposition.\' Actually, Camelot is in no way connected with the College. Facilities are rented out for the summer on campus. The program ._,1\FI llll..,hSIT Bill Pcc·k Rnh.r1.1 '-l1.rr•r••. < '1<·:1\ I l.rn!..d. R R I h.11r. '''\ < ···rr'\·· I d \h·al-.r f).t\l' \·'ndr..'f'•'n Pt.:fr..'' '.nh\,J \l.1tr Ht11.:t. 1\tfi ){,,..,ctJh.l~ltll \rmc Hdh . .'r h:tJ~ J ·,,p,~·nh.tlt '\t.·.d \ '-'\,:t''\.-tiL'. H1lllh:1b\,:, CONCORDIENSIS is published nery Wednesday by the student body of Onion College, Old Gym Hall, Schenectady, N.Y.; to which Postal Forms 3579 are directed. Publications Office: The Jewish World Publitations, 416 Smith St., Schenectady, N.Y. 12305 (370-5483). Entered in the Schenectady Post Office as Seco!ld Class Matter. Subscription Rate 35 cents per copy. $8.00 a year delivered anywhue in'the t:nited States. begins June 30, and runs through l .. lllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll August 18.

PageS CONCOR[)JENS!S, Wednesday! Jan. 21, 1976 ----------------~~--------------------~------- Th_urs., · January 22 Chuck Wayne, Joe Puma, jazz, 8:39 at VanDyck Restaurant, 237 Union St., Schenectady. Woody Allen's Everything You Always Wanted To Know About Sex .•• , 7 p.m. and 9 p.m., RPI. Chapel and Cultural Center, 2125 Burdett Ave., Troy. 75¢ Artie Traum, blues, folk, 8:30, Lively Lucy's Coffeehouse, Skidmore Hall basement, Spring and N. Circular Sts., Skidmore College, Saratoga Springs. 584- 5000. Bob Wood, Adam Levine, Jim Kiley; Joe Zaccardi; Mjchael Current, 8:30, Mother's Wine Emporium, RPI Fri., January 23 Union College Sports: Indoor Track, Union vs. Williams, and Middlebury. Field House at 7:00 p.m. John Payne Band, jazz, 8:.30 p.m., McNeil Room, RPI Union, Troy. Tickets: $1, $2,' 270-6505. Chuck Wayne, Joe Puma,jazz, 9:30 p.m., Van Dyck Restaurant, 237 Union St., Schenectady. Class, performed by Theatre Workshop of Boston, 8 p.m., Filene Recital Hall, Skidmore College, Saratoga. 584-5000, 635. Fantasy in Six, 6 one-act plays, 8 p.m., Little Theatre, Russell .Sage College, Troy. $1, $2, 270- 2246. Paula Lackheart and Co., swing, jazz, blues; 8:30, Freeze- Dried Coffeehouse, SUNY A Assembly Hall, 1400 Washington Avel., 457-6923. Central Park Sheiks, ragtime, 8:30, Ca:ffe Lena, 45 Phila St., Saratoga Springs. Reservations: 584-9789. Bob Wood, Adam Levine, Jim Kiley; Joe Zaccardi; Michael Current, 8:30, Mother's Wine Emporium, RPI. Sat., January 24 WRUC will broadcast the, Ice Hockey game at North Adams, 4:00p.m. Freshmen }loops, Union vs. Hamilton, 6:00 p.m. in the Field House. This weekend the Film Committee presents \The Front Page.\ SS 016 at 7, 9 and 11:00 p.m. 75¢ admission. Basketball Rowdies: If you're not at the Freshmen. game you should be in the 'Skellar. From 6- 8 the 'Skellar will be honoring Union Basketball with pizza and beer at low prices. Union Varsity Basketball against Hamilton in the Field House at 8:00. Bring your voices. Faculty Square · Dance Students are invited to this dance. 8:30, Old ChapeL Chuck Wayne, Joe Puma, jazz. I I I I •• I EROTIC 9:30, Vail Dyck Restaurant, 237 Union St., Schem~ctady. l'antasy in Six, 6 one-act plays, 8 p.m.- Little' Theatre, Russell Sage College, Troy. $1, $2, 270- 2246~ Paula Lackheart and Co., swing, jazz,. blues. 8:30. Freeze- Dried Coffeehouse, SUNY A Assembly Hall, 1400 Washington Ave. 451~6923. Central Pa:rk Sheiks, ragtime, 8:30, Caffe Lena, 45 Phila St., Saratoga S})'Fings. Reservations: 584-9789. Bob Wood, Adam Levine, Jim Kiley; Joe Zaccardi; · Michael Current, 8:30, Mother's Wine :Emporium, R.PI. Sun .. , January 25 Film Committee, presentation of The Fr:on~ Page. 7, 9, and ll p.m. SSOI6. 75¢ admission. Chamber concert, Brahms, Bartok, 3 . p.m., Chapel and Cultural Center, RPI, 2125 Bm:dett Ave~, Troy. 75rt., $1. 274- 7793. Doc Cheatham Dixieland Band, 8 p.m., Schenecta!fy Ramada Inn, Nott St. attd Erie Blvd. Free. 370-7151. Bobby Hackett With Skip Parsons' Riverboat Jazz Band, 8 p.m., Great Saratoga Music HaU, Spring and Regent Sts., Saratoga. $5.00. 584-4591. Tokyo String Quartet, Mozart, Bartok, Debussy, 4 p.m., Page Hall. downtown SUNY A campus. $1, $3. 457-8606. Fantasy in Six, 6 one-act plays, ., I I I I !STATEMENTS . I I I I I I !I I I I I I I I I- One of the many possibilities I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I· I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I - I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I. I I I I I ' that can be used as your Senior Statement. To be placed by your senior picture a MAXIMUM 50 word blurb that can be either original or copied. Submit 'these statements to the Union Book Senior Statement Box (in the mail room) Stud.ent Activities. 0 ' . ' • or ID • ~ p,m., Little Theatre, Russel: Sage College, Troy. $2, $2. 270- 2246. Central Park .Sheiks, ragtime, 8:30, Caffe Lena, 45 Phila St., Saratoga Springs. Reservations: 584..:9789. M<>n~, January 26 In Strauss Lounge the Union College P.Y.E. (Protect Yo1,1r Environment Club) will sponsor a guest speaker_ - Mrs. Dorothy Rosenthal of \Citizens for the p.rotection of the Environment of Albany\ (C.P.E.). Mrs. Rosenthal will speak about current environmental and consumer related projects being undertaken by the C.P.E .. A topic .of special interest is Grass Roots '76, A Bicentennial Celebration Week to be held in February. Coffee and donuts will be served ·and aU are invited to attend. Any questions? Call Bob Clarke at 346-9829. Chuck Wayne, Joe Puma, jazz, 8':30 p.m. Van Dyck Restaurant, 237 Union St., Schenectady. Richard HI, Laurence Olivier, 7 p.m., R. 307, Ladd Hall, Skidmore College, Saratoga Springs. 584-5000. Jimmy Bfeslln, author; reporter, 8 p.m., McNeil Room, RPI Union, Troy. 270-6505. Books-Sandwiched-In, George Eliot; The Emergent Self, noon, Sc~~nect~dY: -CQ;pnty; , ,Li.b.rary,.· Liberty' arid Clinton. )82-3500:· T.\fe·s., .,:.1 .. J.an~a,rY. ~7 Union College Fibn co·mQlittee ·presents · \The Themas Crown Affair.\ Shows at 8 and lO p.m . Admission 50¢ Michael Cooney, old songs, 8:30 Union Coilege Coffeehouse. Old Chapel. Shame (lngrnar Bergman), 7:30, 9:30, Rm. 307, Ladd Hall, Skidmore College, Saratoga Springs. 50¢ 584-5000. · Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf, 7:30, Siena Campus Center Theatre, Gibbons Hall, Loudonville, Free. 783-2358. - Wed., January· 28 Physics Seminar in• Science Center room N303. The- topic of discussion wilt he Experiments on Liquid Crystals 'at High Pressure. 4:30 with refreshments at 4:00. Student Forum meeting at 9:00 in Fox Lounge. Be then;;_ if you care. Rosalie Sorrels and Utah Phillips, longtime favorites at the Ca.ffe Lena, will perform in concert at '8:00 p.m. at the Great Saratoga Music . Hall, Saratoga Springs. For ticket information call 584-4591. Also appearing will be Jim Rooney and His Partn~rs in Ctime. Chuck Wayne, Joe Puma, jazz, . 8:30 Van Dyck Restaurant, 237 Union St., Schenectady. Skidmore College Ballet, \Stars and Stripes,\ 8 p.m. Saratoga Springs Junior High. 584-5000. Plan ahead .... On Jan. 31, Hudson Valley Qornm.urii.ty Ji;oUege will present Orleans. · : · · ·* * * * Calendar information must be received' by Monday in ·the 'ton- cordiensis Office or call Sheryl Farber at 370-6480. Please include all necessar.Y information and a brief description of event. If you ate planning an event and w.o-.ld like .the rest or the college community to know about it, please· let us know. BegJnning Monday night, January 26~ at 8:30, the CABARET will host a new and innovative program entitled: · The Intellectual Cabaret This series will ptov:ide a forum where student$ and faculty can .entertain discussion and debate upon selected and spontaneous topics. The tentatiVe schedule is: MONDAY, JANUARY l(i: ·PROFS. ED CRAIG and BILL HAGAN discus~lng Creativity. MONDAY, FEDRUAR}! 2: PROFS. BOB 'BAKER and, JOliN BOYER on Ethics and Genetics MONDAY, IiEBRUARY 9: OPEN FORUM MONDAY, FEBRUARY 16~ PROFS. BYRON NICHOLS and PETER TOBIESSEN wiD speak on Academic Research and Social· Re!!ponsibiUty. MONDAY, MARCH 1: PROFS. ANDY WARD and GARTH KETCHUM debating the role of the Humanities at Union. A limited menu will be served free of charge.

I l [ I l t ... OONCORDTENSTS, Wednesday, Jan. 21, 1976 Page 9 ···c .... ,·· ~:~s- ::); .. _ -. ···sif··· ~-·ecs··_--,_~--·· ___ -s· · ' ~ ·, ·- -~. !1. 1<1> • -· . • • ' . • . ; • ···. • • . . .. . ' . .· . ' . -_ .· ' . . ' •\\ .. ' . .. . -_.. . . .. ~ . . ' . . . . ~ . / . /., 0 I • ' , • SENIOils: PLACE YOUR ORDER for. graduation announcements with M-rs. Marra in Student Activ.ities. MEETING: A new campus group. The Jewish Cultl)ral Society - 7:30· P.M. on Thursdav. Januarv 21, 1976, in Strai1ss T.outif!e. - - ., New Citizen Newspaper: Is. lookin.g for a student who would like some el(perience work in!! ·ot1 all aspects of a news,paper: repmting. editing, paste-up. layout. etc.: and also a student who would be interested in the advertising and soliciting -of this paper. Please call Mr. Carl Saindon for further information on 377-552~. ATTENTION: Computer Science. indt1strial Economics. and lndustrhil Administration Majors - Sperry Uni:rac - The Roseville Software D~velopment Center is coming to recruit on January 2Rth. If Y0\1 are inter.ested in Programming or Systems Analysi's. Software Language Systems and .applic:Hions. sign up i10w in Placement Office. · Part-1'ime Jobs: The Placement Office· has information on part-titne jobs on and off campus. Stop in and ask at the Placement-Office. Financial Aid Applica tioils Applications ftr all forrm, of financial aid are now available at t-he Office of Student Aid, OJ<;: Gyin Hall. Students desirin[! renewal -of aid as well as those seeking an original ~rant of assistance must suhmit applicatiom. In addition to <cho]arship~ .. applications m~tst be filed for Grant-in-Aids. College Wor.k Studv. Board Jobs and Loans. Applications- for aid must be submitted .no later than March I- 1976. The Classifieds Page of the New CONCORDIENSIS is primarily a student service; as such, an material submitted will be published FREE of charge. To insure that the items submitted are printed, aU copy MUST be in by Monday at 8:00 PM. Hems to be .repeated must have the number of runs specified. The Union College CONCORDIENSIS assumes no responsibility for typographical errors, but will print a correction. Final determination of what is considered a · notice or a classified rests upon the discretion of the Classifieds Page editor. And guys, give me a break! Next to no copy was submitted this week, leaving me holding the bag for a lot of white space. If you w_ant a ride, or you have someting to sell, or you simply want to see something of your ·own printed up in a major world publication, PLEASE, don't hesitate! This is a FREE service, so t11ke advantage of it. If you wisb to submit material which conforms to the format of tlte Classifieds Page, simply slip it under tbe Concordy Office door (third floor Carnegie) or leave it with ~oprs turly, Todd Miller at 224 West, Help JIMMY CARTER win th~ New York State Democratic Pres-i·dential ·pr.imary. Contact Dave Coleman at 346- 0226. FOR SALE FOR S.kLE: Texa~ Instruments SR-11 (electronic slide rule calculator), One-year~ old, excellent condition: comes with box. .adaptorlchaFger. carr~_i.n_g case and instruction hooklet. $50. Contact Chris Vilardi. 302 McKefl.n at 346-9303.- STEREO EQUIPMENT FOR SALE: 0)le pair speakers 10\ 3-way acous~ic suspension (hol]'le h1,1ilt); Amplifier Meath~itt AAI214 15 watt rmslchannel. Will drive speakers in a good-sized room~ SONY cassette recorder/:player with noise- reduction ~ystem and counter. Buy together or separately. Call 372-3551. ·BOOKS FOR SALE: Phvsics I r. 13 for Biology . majors: Soci~Jogy 1-0-Dr. Schneller: Comp Ed 57 - The Nature of Mathematics. Call Mary or Holly at 393- 9740. FOR SALE: Various guitars. This week's special: jumbo acoustic 12- string. Guild thin-line acoustic-electric G- strfng. Also repAJirs a.nd maintainance on all guitars. Instruction. All reasonably priced. Call 374-3621. FOR SALE; Spaulding tenni> racquet: \Pancho GoAnle~\ 'eries. Recentlv restrung. Comes with jacket and woode~ press. $8. See Nate. 316 Davidson or call 370-6640. FOR SALE: .. Math - College Calculus with Analytic Geometry. Political Science - The Learning of Political .tleha'Vjor; Political· So<;ialization; Political· Learning, Political Choice and Democratic Citizen~hip;. Children and Politics. Contact Nate. 316 Davidson at 370-fi640. NO MARKS. FOR SALE: Audiovo){ 8 -- track stereo (FM) radio adapter. Fits into any car R-track svstem: includes antenna and ,riJug-in device. Like new. used f~r two weeks. $30. If interested. contact owner at W3-8239. rFQR SALE: Si7e 10 ski hoots. LANGE PRO with Flo. Used about ten times. List price: $150 new: will sell at $45. Call Dave· at 8S2-9373 or\237-0785. FOR SA·LE: '64 Epiphone Wilshire. Good condition. Asking $175. Contact Craig 377-7101. BOQKS FOR SALE: Economics JO with Prof. Reynolds. Principles of Macroeconomics (Mansfield) $2; Macroeconomics (Reynolds - $3.50. FE 22 - I ntro Sociology I 0 with Prof. Weiner. Tally's Comer (Leibow} - $1.50: Sex, Gender .and Socie\y - $1.50: The Uses of Disorder - $I: Deviants - $1.50. Co11tact Terry, ll2 Webster House at 370-6694. BOOKS FOR SALE: Spanish II - &,panol a lo Vivo - 53.50: Spanish 12 - Lengua y lectura - $:\.50: Spanish- English En!!Ii,h-Spanish dictionary - $4. Bio 14text- $10. C0ntact Gwen. 309 West. RIDES[ 1) RIDE WANTED to Florida around Mar0h 15th. Will ~plit all costs. Call Linda at 374-6700. or Candy at 372-0216. 2) RIDE WANTED to Stamfm:d. Conn .. or Westchester Countv on Januarv 23. 1976. Will ~hate expe1;se~. ('{lntact -~.1ary at 370-6663. or Jackie at 370-6752. 3) RIDE NEEDED to either the Port Authority in New York City, or anywhere in· Pennsvlvania. Would like to leave Thursday: Jan. 22. or Friday. Jan. 23. returnin~ Sunday, Jan. 25. Will share all expenses. Call Lisa R. at 370-6481. 4) RIDE WANTED to either Cortland. Ithaca or Syracuse. Leaving Friday .. Jan. 2J: returning Sunday. Jan. 25. Contact Amy Kramer at 113 Davidson. or call 370- fi7Jl. S) RIDE NEEDED to Long Island or New York City on Friday the 23rd and back Sunday the 25th.. Call Barbara Shapiro. 2·18 Fox. at 370-6474. RIDE WANTED: Friday, Feb. 6 after 12:20 to Long Island. or New York City. Will share expenses. Call Pete. 359 RIDE WANTED: to Pitt-hurgh or in that directi<1n. Har.ri•,hurg. Scranton: ~ny\\herc in weo.;t Penn-;vlvania. A ride to New York mi!!ht ,uffice ;0 I can get a hus. Would like 10 leaH Thur,da\ or Fridav. Jan. 2R-29 C'ontacl Arthur Ma7er. 224- We't at 346- 9369. RIDE WANTED t<1 Geneseo, ~y (or.near Roche,ter. '-I\'Y) Jan-. 30. Fr.ida\ aftern!lon Will 'hare dri,in·11 and expen'e' Call '\;eil at 370~6()()0. ROOMMATE WANTED: One hlock from the college-. Fumi,hed. Verv cJo,e to the rnarht. laundry. pmt office. bank. New and clean. Call 382-8560 or 372-8841. A'k for Alev. If I'm not in. leave your telephone.number. LOST&FOUND SEVERAL LOST ITEMS have heen collected from the Fox Dorm Part~· Ja,t Saturdav night. An~·one v.i,hin!( further information should contact Wendy (370- MHn. FOUND: Gold Ringed Earing if losl call6570. Personal: Good joh Women', Caucus! Mrs. M TGDAY·'S CIDSSIDRD ·puzzLB. 'Davidson at 370-6579. Attentiom female grappler~! Do you too often get cau~ht staring at the girders. WelL this is your chance. The Captain is looking for -new proteges to add to his rapidly !'!rowinp: stable. You too can learn the hi de ho (and of course. the do si do). Promising protege~ can be assured of a title shot verv soon. For information call 6729 and ask for the Captain: if not in speak to Asst. C'aptain Beef. ACROSS 1 \----we . forget\ 5 Italian' commune 9 Particle 14 Armadillo 15 Feathers 16 A thing found 17 Sea wal~ 18 Causing: Suffix 19 Seekprey 20 U.S. Presi~ dent 22 Tioket priv- ileges 24 A summing up 26 Vibrate '1:1 Chem. classes 29 French ·season. 30 Gratuity 33 Far North animals:2 words 37 Toronto's ··-\ l,.oma 38 E~eperience 3$ Pastry item 40 Play amor• . ously 41 Encamp 42 Rural events: 2words 44 Fo()tball olaver · 45 No. Carolina river 46 Grtlw weary 4'1 Meal course . 49 Ower 53 ApproKi· mately 393.7 inches 57 Curtain 58 Unmatched 59 Endingwith lexandsil . 61·Asneatas- 62 OntariD and Superior 63 Fly-high 64 Rockwell·---: U.S. artist 65 Totally unre- active 66 \·--- Breck· enridge\ 67 WW-11 r~ist· ancegl'oup DOWN 1 Kansas City's Hunt 2 Lyric compo- sition - 3 Spanish · rooms 4 Fearful 5 Confusion 6 Heavy· drinkers 7 Taunts 8 Unconnected 9 Golfshot 10 Want greatly last week's punle .solved: .. :• . CA S T s· 0 E A R r.>: IIi i=ls .AT T H E. E l S E R A H I .. I E D 'I' '\ .. \ A I R H A I ll S E R R A T lr: lA lt.i T lA, ~ N E A· R E D ' PRESSURE TAT \[7(-lfN·E REARS rulf.iT .NDO BEE D IS G 0 R--L A T · E N 0 R E S C U E R. S lA V E N G E S C 0 U T C 0 N T. 0 R T 0 Y S T.lr: R s · C I T E I R A N S r: lr: Ill r: A l A E Iii Tll.ili' E.R A S E 0 E L L G. oro Is D y IN IF Is 11 Card wool 12 State formally 13 Indites 21 Intelligent 23 Light strokes 25 Tide · 28 Parti-aue- becoi$ policy 30 Face powder mineral 31 Water-bound . land 32 lswor.thwhile 33 Sandman ·--- .Fountain . 34 S1ove cham- ber · 35 Make loans 36 Attitude 37 Rattan thicket 40 Ventured 42 Cotton package 43 Accomplish- ed 45 Mo1,1t insipid 47 More sensi• ble 48 l..ead into a trap 50 Notlive 51 Hold a be- lief 52 Occupancy · fees 53 Spanish artist 54 Ardor 55 Fuel 56 Lion's cry 60 Nat'l Rifle Assn. ··' the faculty members in question are people with -less than two ,years at Rutgers. Hofstra University .has also · adopted ];udget cuts recently, laying off full-time administrative and clerical employees. The cuts are part of an attempt to slice $1.\3 million out of the University's $4.6 million dollar budget. The proposed cuts would Continued from Page I still leave a $380,000 deficit. Wesleyan in Trouble? The Board of Trustees at Wesleyan University has approved a financial \Plan for Action\ which calls for \staged · reduction\ in college programs to prevent further drain on the endowment and \protect the long r~nge financial stability of the institution.\ The program calls· for a 15% drecrease in the s-ize of the faculty. a 5% increase in student body, 1;111d a halving of the dollar drain on the endowment. Wesleya11, possessed· of a very large e11dowrnent, is hardly in trouble: but seems to be acting very .early to prevent the sort of \cr.ises\ that presently face_ several colleges. Tax report complete incorporated the collection into Schaffer Ljbrary. Also, expeJlditures like the Mountebanks' proposed $3500 for the continuance of the New American Playwrights program were deemed more in the interests of the College Administration to . Continued from Page I fund. The Freshman Record is being paid for by the Dean of Students' office, while the Golf Club, considered a varsity sport, is being passed tp the schoors athletic budget. · Speakers and Constitutions Budgets were arrived at by 11cuckner symphony Conti.nued from Page 5 opening theme of the symphony. Kertesz takes this movement at a tempo slightly faster than usual. This helps to maintain the listener's interest in what appears to be a lengthy work, while at the same time the sense of tension that permeates the movement is enhanced. In the final analysis however, the crowning climax of the entire performance is the vast coda with which the symphony ends. Anton Bruckner was, after all, a very religious man; and here is the unquestioning . faith and piety that he strove to maintain all his. life. As the full power of the orchestra is ·brouglit forth in the final measures, the opening theme of the first movement emerges triumphant in a \veritable cathedral of sound.\ This is, in short, the music of a man who is reaching towards heaven with .all his artistic energy. It is great music indeed. Some have criticized Bruckner's symphonies as repetitious, while others have said they are too long. There is, admittedly, a certain amount of truth to these arguments. Nevertheless, the Fourth is one of. Bruckner's greatest, and can stand alone as a very beautiful and moving work of art, All in aU, t~is is exciting music, as the Kertesz 'performance demonstrates. careful examination of each organization's constitution. In one case, Cabaret's proposed musical \'as turned down as it was ter:rned \not the place\ for such art event in light of Cabaret's stated constitutional goals. Concurrentl:y, ~he BSA was granted funds for events that would involve the entire campus, such as parties held· in Carnegie (rather than in Hickok) and $4500 alloted for an upcoming all- College concert. One first-:year organization, the Speaker's Forum, received more money than it requested for its program of nine reknowned speakers. Eilbott feels that they .. Should have started with six ra- ther than nine speakers the first year. Nine is a lot.\ Still, the increase in actual budget expense was due primarily to inflated costs in the time since their original submission. If the plan for college takeover of sorne expenses through the Joint Committee falls through, though, Eilbott plans to ask for an increase d about $15 annually in the student tax. With dwindling d()llar .values and increased clUbs and costs, there may .!->e no other way.

'( :agel~--------------------------~-----c_o_N_c_o_· _R_D_IE_N~Sl_s~,_W< __ e_d_n_~_d_~_'_J,_an_._2_z_,_z9_7_6~--------------~·---------------:::-- r Curling comes to college by LANCE TR.\ VIS Curling is generating much interest among the student body at Union, according to its director, Johnathon Pearson III. Curling originated somewhere in Europe, and many of the terms indicate it was first played in Scotland. A curling stone has been found in Scotland, dated 1511. Both Robert Burns and Sir Walter Scott called it \manly Scottish exercise.\ ln 1838, the rules of the game were standardized by the Grand Caledonia Curling Club, which is still in existence. All major clubs are still affiliated. with this club. Curling is now played in most European countries, China, New ·Zealand, Canada and the United States. 1 Curling Comes To the U.S. Curling came to the United States around 1830. It drifted southward from Canada into New England and Michigan. The still existing Gra,nd National Curling Club of America was formed in 1867. In 1958, the U.S. Curling Association was set up to oversee the National Championships. Curling began at Union with informal groups that curled at area clubs. A member of one such group and a Union Alumnus, Chic Hequenbourg, is currently the New York State Curling Champion. Mr. Achilles also curled in the area. He has now become one of the biggest benefactors of the game. He has given fipancial support to four curling clubs in addition to providing funds for the construction of Achilles lee Rink in the hope that curling will becorjle a sport for all. tournaments throughout the sneakers. Experienced curlers will Northeast. The club is led by two be present to provide instruction eminently qualified cuders, Rocco for begmners. The 'Computer Gio Yannone, '76, and Steven Center and Maintenance staffs Breitenfeld, '78. Pearson feels that are the only College workers so \The curling Club could produce far interested in ~curling. As for National Champions if enough the students, there are usually people at:~d money become more than twenty playing each involved.\ afternoon. How the Game Union College curling -is an experimental case for many Is Played Northeastern organizations, The it:~teresting game of curling according to Mr. Pearson. People consists of two four-man teams. are watching to see how Each member slides two forty-two successful our program will be pound \stones\ down the sheet of . before continuing with their own ice, trying to cause h.is own team's curling plans. Many ct1rlers in the stones to be closer to the center of area have helped get curling the target than his opponent's. started at Union by sending Members of opposite teams take instructions and quickly inviting turns shooting the stone. This Union to their tournaments. continues until all eight players The curling facilities compare have gone. The team captain (or favorably with most curling clubs. \skip\) stands at the target (or the 'Fhe lounge is quite comfortable \house\) until his turn to throw, (and has a calor T.V.) and is open pointing with his broom where he to students and faculty groups as wants the stone to go. The other a meeting place. The only members of the team stand a_Ion% physica-l problem that ha~ occu~ed the ice, ready to sweep If It is due to the skatmg nnk appears the stone is not going to overhead. It causes condensation reach the target. T-ile score is to form on the cuding room determined, after al-l eight players ceiling which drips and forms have taken a turn, by the number stalagmites on the ice. This forces of stones of one team which are Pearson and his assistant, Ta·ber closer to the center of the target Shirley (the on:Jy woman curling than those of the other team. ice-maker) to scrape and reflood There are customs associated the ice everyday. with curling that are unique. The Pearson feels that curling will sole purpose of the game is to benefit the school greatly ... It can promote good will and fellowshii?; provide a personal and enjoyable thus betting is taboo. There iS wav to exercise during the also the act of \broomstacking.\ wi~tet. in addition Mr. If a person during a match calls Pearson feels , it will help to \stack brooms,\ all contestants admissions and make Union more must leave the ice and par.take of widely known. As a result of a a \cup 0f cheer.\ According to Bonspiel held here last fall, Union Mr. Pearson, this usually happens )las received six applications from in friendly matches and he admits six ardent curlers. The U.S. to losing when it has happened to Curling Association is looking at him. Union and Schenectady as the site .. Eugene Smith: A touc-h of class by CATHY MARTHY In the midst of thd campus whose sustenance depended on winter doldrums. Eugene Smith's their traditional occupation of slide show /lecture last Thursday, fishing, were stricken with ' a Jan. 15 proved to be a refreshing -mysterious disease in the early exposure iu an exceptional man. 1950's. Though it was discovered Smith's photographs are in 1959 that mercury was the. beaut i fu I and s om eti mes cause of t-he town's sickness, the haunting. The critics rave. guilty company, th.e Chisu Mr. Smith immediately Corporation, continued its established a rapport with his eontamination of the ocean until • audience; he spoke as if his 1968. The symptoms of the guests were close friends sitting disease we~e not reversible, but it around his kitchen table. became important to the people Mr. Smith strongly · believes that the company admit its guilt that a photographer should not and provide some m<;metary and intrude on the privacy of his moral recompense for the havoc . subjects, violating their trust. that it had inadvertent,ly wrought Ma.ny of his photographs reveal upon the town. his adherence to this belief; in a Mr. Smith and his wife went to photo of a wake in Spain and Mimimata in the early seventies . one of a weary Dr. Schweitzer. in an attempt to n.otorize the . the observer senses that the town's situation through his photographer is ignored by the photography. The couple became subject. very close to the people of · The first half of the lecture was M inamafa and joined them in devoted to various photo projects their legal battle against the that Mr. Smith had undertaken• company. Mr. Smith's many of tbe slides were involvement in the town's accompanied by humorous or struggle resulted in a beating by a touching anecdotes. The group of company supporters; he· photographer spent much of his was left -partly blind. uncertain as work on photos that would to whether he would be able to accomplishsomething, provoke a photograph again. change. Pollution in Pittsburgh, By the end of the lecture, the an inhuman asylum in 'Haiti. and standing,-room only audience was the study of mercury poisoq,ing moved to tears over the in the·· Japanese town 1 of photogtaphs of Minamata and Minamata have been subjects of the reflections of their author. A the photographer's attention. standing ovat.ion was offered to M~. Smitf! · is probably· most Eugene Smith after he quietly renowned for: his photos <>f .fhe derhonstf'ated himself to be a fishing village of Minamata. The skilled ,photographer . and an inhabitants of this community. extraordinary human being. There ar.e presently 11ixteen intramural curling teams at Onion. They .. are beginning to practice for the upcoming intramural competition. In addition to the intramural teams there now exists a Union College Curling Club which will represent Union in the : bonspiels curling Union's Curling Facilities of future Nati9nal Championship ·· Th 1 . \ . 1 -. . - ·d· 1 ,, matches. '-\'--- ______ .,.··-~~-------- ..... --\\\\\~_ ' e cur mg J3Ctlttes are rea. 1 J , ...... _....__._. __ ..,........-....,....-----, ~ .. - available to Union students, CONCORDY's art editors Monday through Friday, 3 p.m. .are looking for drawing~, through. 5 p.m.· and soon stories, -poeans, graphks, and Saturdays. and Sundays, I p.m. photos. \With. which to through 4 p.m. will also- be open. enhance -our pages. Please The only equipment 11eeded is .. contact Diane at 6534, . or fairly warm clothine and shoes or Sue at 6480 if you' can-help. Pre·med program seminar will bring the students together to share their knowledge on the field of medicine. The project course will be in the area of the students' Organizing Theme Major and will encourage the .student to study a particular aspect of the humanities or the social sciences in depth.\ In addition to the above 28 courses to be taken at Union; the student will do research during a third summer at Union which will be equivalent to two course credits, and Union Coliege biology credit will be given for six advanced biology courses taken at AMC. Therefore, a total of 36 courses will still be required in order for the baccalaureate degree to be awarded by Union College. The diversification of coulise study prompted Dr. Gerald Kanter to say that, \The Union College-Albany Medical College Six Year Medical Education Program will be the most demanding in the country.\ A student mus-t maintain a minimum 3.00 g(?a every term in order to remain in the program and at, the end of the third year, the student must have an overall gpa of 3.20 for matriculation to AM C. The procedures for Admission to the combined program have not yet been finalized. However, Dr. Kanter outlined the proposed procedure wbich would involve two separate admission procedures whereby· the rights Continued from Page 1 and desires of both institutions would be protected. Applications would be initially sent to Union and the Admissions Office would follow- its own procedures for admission. If and when the applicant is accepted to Union College, the application would be forwarded to the Medical College .. After the Medical College Admissions Board screens the applications, certain students will be invited to AMC for an interview before the final decisions are made. Therefore, an applicant must gain separate admittance to both institutions in order to be accepted into the combined program. These students will be accounted for in the total number of \pre-medical'' students admitted to Union in the entering class and therefore the total number of \pre-meds\ will not increase as a result of this program. Benefits to Union The new program should benefit Union in a number of ways. First, there will be an increase in the application pool in both number and geographical distribution. It is possible that students who are turned down for the combined program but still accepted to Union might elect to attend Union's regular four-year program. Second, it will bring exposure to high schools that Union otherwise might not have. Third, .Union will receive national publicity as the details of the program are unfolded and pt1blicized. Fourth, Union is guaranteed 20 entries into medical school each year. Both President Bondurant and Dr. Kanter stated that this wili not affect the admission of seniors at Union who are applying to AMC. Fifth, the students that are accepted into the program will have hfgher academic credentials than the average Union student and therefore will raise the total average SAT scores for the entering Class. Finally, the combined program will serve to strengthen the ties within Union University between Union and AMC. Although it has not yet been seriously discussed, President Bondurant feels that the two institutions· may be able to share or exchange faculty.., members and laboratory equip.ment and also jointly sponsor guest lectures and seminars. The new program will not provide any substantial increase in costs to the College~ Any increased costs of the necessary specia-l summer courses will be covered by incremental summer tuition. Public relations and administrative costs will be covered by the revenue from the application fees to the new program. The details regarding the'administration of the medical education program are still being formulated. \ Union~s new van Continued from Page 3 ·organization's failure ·to honor ·use at a time. Upon the return of reservations made for the van will the vehicle the organization shall result in a loss of its privileges for be eligible t<l sign up for another a minimum of one month. The function. ony acceptable reason for failure All final decisions· concerning , to heed these reservations would complaints or grievances about be impermissable • weather the van shall be heard before a conditions. This shall be meeting of the Tax Committee determined by the intramural and the Director of Intramurals. office. One other final restriction Should ·anyone have questions on the reservation of the van concerning the use of the van, itself is no club or organization call Bob Driscoll. 370-6119. or shall sign up for more than one Arn.ie Hiller. 346-6653. The· Ru-stic Pub EVERY TUES. NIGHT BEER BLAST $2.00 All you can drink . 8-12 Stop and Try Our New . CHEWY HOT DOGS 803 EASTER~ AVE. . \\ ' . Mother Ferro's Restaurant EARLY BIRD SPECIALS -(Monday-Sunday -·11 AM--6 PM) . Bilked Lasagna with Meat Sauce . _ In Casserole -Reg. $3.75 Only $2.95 B~ed Eggplant ·Parmesan with Spaghetti-- Reg. 54.95 1 0nly $3.25!.. Spaghetti and Meatballs- Reg. 52.85 Onl-y $1.9~<: Veal Cutlet with Spaghetti - Reg. $4~25 Only $J.45 ' Plus-Other Specia1s Open 7 Days a Week 1115 Barrett St. ~ ( I l ~ l I t I ' I I

f CONCORDIENS!S, Wednesd4y, Jan. 21. 1976 Page 11 ~....---· ' sports Hoop splits again \LeRoy\ Kell'y goes in .for another two, Note: Distraught .freshman in background. · Bad day at mid-court The Unicm College hoop squad continued their rollercoaster ways this week, trouncing a mediocre Williams' tearri, 76·57, last Saturday in Memorial Fieldhouse, but nqt before falling to an imJ)roved Amherst five Wednesday evening in a tight battle, 75·72, The split left the Garnet's record at 5-4. The Amh~rst. game, broadcast over WR UC, proved to be as close as the fi.nal score indicated. The Garnet, fresh off a ~aior upset of mighty llartwick, needed a victory to help them get through the remainder ·of the year in traditional Union fashion - on top. Wednes<iaY appeared the perfect time to begin. A victory would grant the Dutchmen two victories in a row, something they had not experienced all season. They had ·defeated the Lord Jeffs two years running al1d after their superior showing the previous Saturday against Stretch and Company, a second straight triumph appeared quite attainable. Unfortunately Amherst held something not in their possession the previous two years - the leading Division Ill scorer in the nation, Jim Rehnquist, son of the Supreme Court Justice and owner of a 35: points per game average. The fi.rst half .action established the mood for the entire game and its conclusion Union's quickness and balance vs. Amherst's Rehnquist ancl a solid supporting cast that averaged thirty pounds and two inches more than their Gavnet counterparts. The Lerd Jeffs jumped to an early lead that Union. time and time again, narrowed down to a bucket, only to see Rehnquist · pop a jumper, or a teammate sink one from underneath and widen the gap once more. At half time Amherst led by five.. Coach Scanlon insertec;l AI Walker for Mike Smith to add some offensive firepower and although Al sh.ot superbly the Garnet missed Smitty's desperately needed muscle under the boards, and so the teasing Lord Jeff lead· continued. But with only two minutes remaining, the Dutchmen behind' the shooting of Wall~er and Gary Borgese. and the passing of John Denio and Steve Kelly, rallied to knot the score at 69. It was anybody's ball game. But in a mixup under the boards Rehnquist was fouled and . ' ' ;, ' ' . Scanl_on's boys had just wip~d of the Pre-Law Society?_ Theit out the'· Williamstown invaders discussion grew heated~ then Wrestling· ·splits from across the border, 76-57, suddenly. it c~ased. A shout by NEAL SCHWARTZ . . \ ' \ and rumors were buzzing all arose. the circle broke and slowly· U · mat ·- t k bn &tands at 10-2 for the season. thr. ou.gh . Meinor. ial Fleldli.ouse,. ·bui lfrnfty~·.· in their best By' ron, - ·· mQ.t:L- -· ··- !llen.. · ·· 90 · ~ · · · Springfield . and. Dartmol;lth . l_ast A surprise win came m scene of the slau_ghter. The the bulletins marched forward. 1 n.igF(jlJ. .§priJ?.gfielf!: Jv1!lss. ,iu a Saturday's rna tch against Ephmen's boss, Mr. Tong had Rea~ehing the \'scor~r's ~ble , double dual meet: Union ripped Potsdam in the 190 pounlh:'l'as~. decided to Til~ chapges against they h~lted and faced the Dartmouth 37-12 and suffered Pete Felker. a freshman moved Scanlon and: his boys. ·. The Williams boss. One of them their third loss to highly. rated up two classes to pin Sommers following alleged crimes were to spoke .. Calmly puffing on his Springfield 25-13. Springfield is from Potsdam. Potsdam, a Div. be charged:· pipe he explained, \If you are rated in the top 10 in DIV II HI team, as is Union, were Coach Scanlon: Carr;ving a even contemplating the while Union is in Division III. ranked 4th in the nation in concealed weapon (Roger possibility of bringing charges Bruce Freeman's Dutchmen- preseason polls for small colleges. Symonette) in the first half of agairist our clients you will find fared well against both teams and Mike Paquette despite losing the battle. yourselves in big trouble. boosted their overall record to 9- to Porillo of Springfield. beat Illegal usage of the weapon Tomorrow morning you, and 3 more thart halfway through the Clark of Dartmouth in the 167 in the first five minutes of the each and everyone of your mugs, season. Key matches last night division last night. Paquette now second period, allowing Roger to will be indicted for falsely were seen by freshman Kevin boasts a 9-l-1 record. inflict cruel and inhuman impersonating a basketball Hallenback who beat Beuhler of Union's only drawback is punishment upon the enemy. player and prosecuted to the Springfi'eid 7-6. Beuhler is a producing a heavyweight. As of Roger Symonette:· ~epeated fullest extent of the law. Your national champion. Tom Everett now, they have no \BIG\ boy to operation of a flying vehicle administration, for supporting also had his hands full with three fill the slot and have been forced with0ut permit or registration. you financially, will be arraigned tirpe national champion Rich to forfeit these matches. Pete Meola and Roger as accessories to the crime. If Monroe of Springfield in losing 7- The matmen's· next match is Symonette: Violation .of the that does not deter you the feds 1 · th 158 . d t g away against Kings Point this Sherman Anti- Trust Act, for will be called in. You did cross m · e · · poun · ca e ory. MiRe Paquette also lost to a Saturday. monopolizing the backboards the State lines. Therefore, I suggest national champion from entire evening. that if you don't intend to accept Springfield, Porillo, with a John Denio: Continued our postgame hospitality at Fox lopsided l9-0 score. Jim Sutton harrassment, grand larceny and dorm, DPhi or the. Skellar you remains as .the only wrestler with 1 illegal prossession of an iron lung. kindly about face and make a peifect record at 10-0-0. Sutton Joe Fisher, Gary Borgese, yourselves history til next year.\ at 150 pounds beat Rigogfioso of Mike Smith and the rest of the They never did show at the Springifield 7-1 and pinned Union squad: Attempted arson parties. Keyes of Dartmouth at 1:39. ·as they burned the nets for a Springfield is known for its big sh9otirrg average over 50% while time wrestling ·and only sports the gang that couldn't shoot two losses to date. straight from Williams only ·B· 0· .. X .s·c· o··R.E'' .s· . Last Saturday Union defeated canned 40% of their attempts. Potsdam State 27-14 and Albany Steve Kelly and John Denio: State 34-17 while losing to St .. Accessories to the above ctitne as Lawrence in a.close match 22-15, they combined for 18 assists. AMHERST In the latter match, Union was Everyone realized the Rehnquist II 10-13 3~ leading 15-10 going into the last significance of the accusations. If ~~i~fie~ford i ~~ 4 two matches in which they the charges stuck their fragile Coffin 6 1-2 l3 yielded a total of 12 points~ six protection from midwinter ennui, Collins 5 Q-1 10 by disqualification and six by that despised foe recently ~X:~ell 2 o-0 : forfeit in the heavyweight vanquished by hit tnen Scanlon ~- ~~---- division. and Harkness, would suffer a 29 17-26 75 Both Co-captains Tom Everett severe blow, especially when and Larry Dagastino pinned Ned's defenders from across the their opponents in the 34-17 creek, the Baby-face Pucks were UNION conquest over Albany State. This on the road seizing new territory. FG F'T TP 8 . was union's second win over the The situation appeared Denio ' 4 0-1 . • d · Borgese 6 0-0 12 S.U.N.Y. school this year. esperate. Dr. Walker 8 2-2 18 Everett had tough matches in But then, from a corner of the Fisher ' 2 2-2 6 bowing to All-Americans Mitch Fieldhouse murmuring was kenv 2 1-2 5 Brown of St. Lawrence to-1. and heard. Heads swerved. Huddled ~~ft~ ! ~:i 1 ~ Tony Perazza of Potsdam 9-2. toge 1 thher. stool d seven or . ei~ht Symonette 1 1-2 3 Dagastino piled 3 solid wins in cur y · mrs, g asses and adm1ss10n -- -- 71 the three meets and with two bulletins. An impromptu meeting 31 9 - 13 strong wins last nighf, his record • • ~ .'$ ... .,., ................ \ • \' ... ~ • .. ' ,. • ' - - STATS UNION 37, DARTMOUTH 12 118-DeBlois (U) pinned Andrea (D) 4:24 126-Hallenback (U) pinned Marmer (D) 3:20 134-Dagastino (U) pinned :Faxe (D) 3:42 142-Levin.(D) dec. Redder (U) I i-3 !50-Sutton (U) pinned Keyes (D) 1:39 J 58-Everett (U) pinned Breton (D) I :20 167-Paquette (U) dec. Clark (D) 4-3 177-Sal7man (U) dec. Garnett (D) 8-0 190-Witt (D) dec. Tannenbaum (U) 7-6 Hwt.-Hunnefeld (D). won by forfeit SPRINGFIELD 25, UNION 13 118-DeBlois (Ul dec. Witherspoon (S) .19-8 126- Hallen back (U) dec. Beuhler (S) 7-6 134-Dagastino(U) dec. Moufetis (S) 7·5 142-Waish (S) dec. Redder{U) 9.-3 150-Sutton (U) dec. R ig()glioso (S) 7-1 '158-Morrroe (S) dec. Everett (U) 7-1 167-Pqrillo (S) dec. Paquette (U) 19-0 177-Biloheau (S) dec. Sal?man (U) S-1 190-Mullil!an (S) dec. Karwatowski (U) 16· 3 Hwt.-B1atnick (S) won by forfeit STATS calmly .sunk the two-free throws. Tlten Union lost a crucial jump ball and Amherst managed to hang on. canning two more foul shots with nine seconds left to win 75-72. The Dutchmen returned home Saturday hight to an enthusiastic crowd seeking revenge for last year's defeat at Williamstown in t'he Ephmen's Alumni Gymnasium of a home court. W ili.iams. sacrificing three stilrters to graduation, sported a 3-5 record prier to gametime. For the first ten minutes Williams played, well enough to grab an 18-15 lead. But the Garnet, shaking off their sluggishness reeled off eight str'aight points and gained an advantage they never relinquished. Still, at halftime the Union lead was only a modest six, 39- 33. Enter Roger Symonette. Put in by Scanlon to control the second-half tip-off, Roger did just that, and for the next five minutes everything else too. Defying Newton's law of gravity but proving his decree that when two forces meet the st11onger one pre,,ails fRoger's hand meets ball, ball goes into orbit), Roger leaped., rebounded, rejected and intimidated Uni.on to a comfortable 14 point advantage. He enjoyed enormous \help from the rest• of the Outchmen crew. John Denio and Steve Kelly again exhibited their passing adroitness, John handing off for ten assists. Kel eigl1t. John continued to fr\lstra te his opponents defensively whi.Je sticking it in their eye at the Qpposite :end of the court., He finished with 14 points:· tying Pete Meola for high game honors. -Pete also paced the team off the boards, snagging 11 'bounds while Roger snatched 9. Gary Borgese and Joel Fisher each registered 12 points, taking high-percentage shots that vaulted the team's average over 50% for the entire game. The Dutchmen travel to Wesleyan tonight and then return Saturday to the -Fieldhouse for one of their toughest matcn~ups all season. They go up against Fourth-ranked. undefeated (9-0). Hamilton College in what promises to be one helluva game. Be there. Aloha. UNION V, POTSDAM M ll ...... Edglflll (U) won by forfeit. 1:16-SI!aw ( Pl dec. Hallenllec;k, tHJ. 134-DIIgast!no !Ul tJK. Nlzlol, 13·3. l~Bouch&rci (PI dec. Redder., 5-2. 1$0-SUtton. (U) dec. t.ymfacker, 8-7'. 151--PtrCIUI <Pl' dec. Everett, 9-2. 107-P~uette IUl pinned GoiJdwln, 2=51. 177-tln' (P) dec. 5alzmann, ·lo-6. 190-Felker (Ul plnnetl Sot'nmers. 3:~. +fwt.-Tannenbaum I U) drew with vernt. ~. STATS UNION 34, ALBANY STATE 17 'ila.-tleBiols (U) drew with Feber, 2·2. l~Hallenbeck (l,Jl won by fOrfeit. ~Degastlno <Ul pinned Bellly, 5:00. '1~11ardi (A)~dec. ~eedlf:,.&-4. 1$-Ward <Ul die. Nata~n. S.o4. lilt-Everett !Ul pinned Zubllfal«<, 3:20. ·1117-faquel1e( U l, dec.. Aldin. lH. 177-saiz:mtnn(UI W6n by fliHBit. 190-Jordan IAI pin!*f Tanl'lllllbaum, 3:32. ' Hwt-{;}ulnn lA) won IIY· fal'felt. Si. LAWRENCE 21. UNION 15 118-Edgtey (U) dac. Malll!ct;: 11-6. l~ufleld (SI.l ctec. Hallenbeck. 1!-1. 134-Digattlno (U) clec. VIto, 2-G. l~lttl (.SLI dec. Redder, 6-1. 1511-Sutton (U) dec. JUdSon, f-3. 15&-Brown (SL) dec. everett. lH 1o67-P~ (lJ) dec. RomasJfiOII, 5-2. 177-Silzmii'WI (IJ) de<;. Grlswald, 3-2. 191)-5hlppee (SI.I 'by dl1. elM' Tannen· bl.ltlm. Hwt-Pitlllgr• lSLl Willi by forfeit •

-- Page 12 CONCORDIENSJS, Wednesday, Jan .. 21, 1976 -----------~-~~----~-----·--...,._ ____ __.. __ _,_ _ __;.___.~-....-----..,....------------------- Middlebury: Another victim for red hot skaters The Union College Hockey team moved into first place in the ECAC Division II \\/estern Division with an 11-4 drubbing of NESCAC rival Middlebury Friday night before 3.200 fans ,in Achilles Rink. The Dutchmen slatted out fast. scoring 4 goals in the first 4 minutes with Dean M at!Iewson, Brad Hinterberger. Ber n,i.e Kaminski and .Tom Pahapill lighting the lamp. Middlebury's All-American goalie Brimsek had all he could handle with lhe young Union team. ?a'hapill made it 5-0 before Middlebury Hood leads Garnet squad Tom H ond. a 2.0'\··car-old junior from ClaremlJnt. New fbmp,hire. ha~ he-en elec-ted hy hi.; teammates to captain(, Inion's 197(1 football squad. The 5-10. 170-pound defensive halfhack will play his third :year of football for Union next fall, his second as a letterman. T!..e Union Dutchmen, under the coaching of Tom Cahill. Vlill tr:y to better their 1975 rewtd of l-7. Cahill. who entered his first vear at Union this vea r after ~even years as .head - cO>ach of Army. said he was \real pleased\ with his squad's selecti~n. \Obviously. he ha~ the respect of the other guys,\ he said.\ He·s a dedicated kid who will give the team some real leadership nex:.t fall.\ The Uni·on football sq)-.1ad this week hegins voluntary three- times-a-week pract,ice in preparation for the fall's schedule. which includes Hobart, Williams and Mi<ld lebury Colleges. Football foes Union did not meet last fall but wi II in 1976 are Colhy College aad Bates Colle~Ze. Hood. a mec!Ian ical engineerin~Z major. captained the football squad of Claremont's Stevens High School. from which he graduated in 1973. He ·is the son of Mrs. Donald Hood of Clarement. Attention all lbsk.ett.all Rowdies! Unfortunately, there bas been a distinc-t lack of rowdiness at hone basketbmU games -tbis year. Let's get ·with i1! Tllis Saturday from 6-8 JUn. the 'sk:eller will be honoring Union's basketball rowllies with a beer and pizl:a S)lecial at low inflation fiJ:hting rates. Come on down, fill up, and get psycheli for the b-baU game l!g.ainst Hamilton! Anyone in teres ted in maintaining crowd e-CJntrol during the distriblltlon of · hockey tickets at the A.chilles Rink please contact :Senior R.A. Joe Zolner, Znd OCJor Fox. phone 346-9527. (,:orne watch the l.Jnion Mermen swim a~ainst Trinity College at .the Foo()te Pool on Jan. 28, at .:J p .. Jli, scored on a screen shot, but Kevin Kardos got that score right back as he faked the goalie out of his skates and. deftly slipped the puck between his legs for the score. Middlebury scored again l'ln a power play, and the peri0d ended with Union in command 6- 2. The second pt;:riod started with the Garnet 2 men down. and Middlebury quickly netted their third I!Oal. The rest of the period was pretty even, with the Dutchmen assuming command near the end of the period and scoring when Skeeter Gazzola ~cored on a rebound. by, BILL P~CK Middlebury looked like they mi~ht make a game of it when thev scored with just II seconds gone in the thir.d -period. ·hut the Union defense rose to the occasion and shut them out the rest of the way. And again the Dutchmen's offense caught fire, this time scoring 4 goals in 4 minutes at the end of the game. Tom Pahapill scored his third goal of the night on a rebound, Brad Hinterberger his second on a scramble in front of ~he net, Pahapill his fourth of the night after a picture .pas~ from Kevin .Kardos, and G-rant Judd closed 0ut the scoring hy jamming in a rebound. Jirn Baxter played another fine game in the nets. !>topping 27 of 31 Middlebury shots, with 2 of the visitor's scores coming while Union was i men down.· -The offense. led by Pa:hapiH's · four goals, got 'fjff 40 shots on Brintsek. .scoring on a1most a third of them. a remarka-ble stat-istic. ln beating Middlebury the Dutchmen not only beat one ofthe better Division II teams in the east, they blew them tight 0ut of the rink. Coach Harkness felt the team played well throughout, Kevin Kardos putting one past All American goalie Brimsek. Union skatel's destroyed this net- minder'rfine goals-against average Friday night. the third straight game which the Dutd.lrtlen · hav_e played·· nearly flawless. On,e Middlebury . observer ·said he \fylt Union lt~oked at least as good as UVM (ranked Jtd in the east in a preseason Div. l poll~. who had beatyli Middlebury 7'-0,- 2 days earlie-r. Uniron, whkh has outscored Its opponents 68~34 in ten ,games, has the h&rdest part of the schedule he,hind them and the prospects for home ice in the Oivi~ion ll playoffs look awfully good. BQX SCO~E PERIOD 1: Storing _. ll Union. M~thew.on. (Churc)till. Hinterherger). :59: 2) Union. Hinterherger . .(Judd. Giallonardo). 1:20: ~) Union, Ka!11il1skl (O'Connell. Sisler). 1:5o:4l Union. Pah:;pill. (-Jenkins).- 3;44: 5)' Union. Pahapill. (Mar,hall). &;09: 6) Middlehurv. Bellew. 1-CeJ!larski-l, .&:29: 7) llnion .. -Knrdo,_.(OTonnel. Rankin). !0::29: '8) Middlehurv. l)ovle, (·Lean. Woodworth). 12-5-1. Pe~alti\\ --- M1ddl~hun: liosn\.ick. elho\lin?. '''!l: l'niMc Sthnial7. tripping, ~:5o: l 1 01on, Gialloilardo. hook1'1J!• 5·4o: M1ddlehurv. Gahapen. '\\hing. 7.-1-1. Pnion, M.athew'i'n! cr;o!\~ checkil'tJ!; II 20 .. Vnion. Giallonardo. ho,.king. 11 21>. M1ddlehun. Fit7patr:irk. h11!h ... tickinJ.!. n ·'12· t 1 nio.n ·Rankin. .hi!!.h· \t1clln~. .t:\. 'i 2. e ni(m, Ka.fninski: ern.,., rheL;kinJ;!. f :\·.12: llnhm. Hinterher~er. interference_ I~ 4-:l: [Inion. Jenkin'. tnrrm~. 10 00 .Shots:·l'n1nrl. 11: Midctlehun 17 Saves: Ral\ler 15: Rnm .. rk. 0 PERiOD- 2 -.. Scoring - 9) \1 iddlchurv_ Lean· I'B<\Iwick) •. 27. 10) Unton. Gauola. Ga7;ola. (Ginllonardp. O~C'onnell). 18:1:4. Pen11ties - Middlehury. Gahape~. elbOwing. 4:05, Sllou: limon. 1'5: Middlehur.-. 4. Savl!il: Raxter l Rrim,ek 14.- PERIOD j -:Scoring- lll,MiddlehiJrv. Fit7patrick (-DovleJ. :1'1: 12) Union. Pahapill <Jenkins. Marshall). 14:24. 13) Union. - Hintecher~er· .(Judd. Churchill). 15:27: 14) linitin. l'a-hapi\1 (Kardn,). 17-00: 15) Union. Judd (Churchill.!.. •18:22. Penallies - Mjddlehurv. Gahagen. Elho\ling. 2:1 J: l'ni.lm. G·ial!onnrdn. e.lhowin~. 5 l7: lvlicldlehurv. Crump,. trippinl!. 11:05: 'M1ddlehur.y.. Gahati;en, lfiiM.:onduct.. gaine ·mi .. cnndm·t. 18·~2: Mi.ddlt>hu_n:. Wood\nTth. mi<conduet. 1R:22 - Shots: Hntnn. 1.3: Middlehurv 10. Total Shots: Union. 40: Middlebtrrv. JL Saves: Baxter. 9: -Brimsek. 9. · Total Saves: ·Baxter 27. Brimsek. 29. Legmen debut Friday p.m: Onion's indoor track team is continuing its rigorous training regimen in preparing for its January 23 showdown against Williams and Middlebury. at the field house. In an attempt to sharpen its skills. five team members attended an invitational meet held at Dartmouth on January 17 and 18. It should be explained for all of you Would-be track fans. that the way one track team goes ahout heating another track team is hy accumulating more points than the opposition. Points are awarded in the following way: for first place in any given event a team receives six points, for second-four points, for third- three points. for fourth-two points. and for fifth-one point. The legman's coach. Ken Michelson. has put out the team roster. It is apparent from the roster that the team has great strcnght and depth. The field cvenb include the high jump. the Jon!! jump, the triple jump. the pole vault. and the shot put. Thcv,c team members who will be jumping for Union arc: Dave Plummer. Cliff Ro.gcr~. Keith Crimmin~. DaYc Ricks. Kevin Harkcnridcr~ Don Rappold. and Farl Chilton. {Inion's pole vaulters arc: Dave Ricks. Steve Mastaitis, Bruce Bonanno. and Chris Pi.ke. The final field event. the shot put. features Pete by. JEFF SCHEININGER Sherman. Mastaitis and the brotherly team The Garnet's sprinters and of Mark and Kevin Scheuer. The runners are perhaps the hest they high •hurdlers are: Mike May. have ever been. Theirs are the Andv Barber. and Mark Decker. track events and thev include the Representing Union in the long fifty yard dash. the fifty-five yard distance events are milers Steve high h~rdles, the 600 yard run, Jones and Gregg Meyer. The two the 1000 vard run. the one mile mile run also features Tom run. and. the two mile run. Lawson and StariWiskowski. The Union's runners are: Milt final track events are the one and Herring, Lee Parish. Mark two mile relay·. In -the one mile . Decker. Bob Moffat. Dave relav. Bob Moffat wHI take off Ricks. Billy Auger, Steve foll~wed by Dave Ricks. Billy Auger. and either Earl Chilton or Steve Mastaitis. In the two mile relay Sob M of( at will again lead off with Kevin Scheuer. Steve Jones. and Tom Lawson following. The only cloudy spot in the Garnets' otherwise bright future is the recent injury of shot putter Pete Sherrm~n.-Hts temporary loss will leave a gap in the lineup. However, this one injury should not slow the Garnet speedsters. Jovial hoop scored by Kevin Schary in intramural hoop action. Note: Ace first baseman· in background. It I ~ i ! I. I! \' ,. j' t f It- ., I 1 J:. l I . ~: •

Page 12 CONCORDIENSIS, Wednesday, Jan. 21, 1976 Middlebury: Another victim for red hot skaters The Union College Hockey team moved into first place in the ECAC Division II Western Division with an 11-4 drubbing of NESCAC rival Middlebury Friday night before 3,200 fans in Achilles Rink. The Dutchmen started out fast. scoring 4 goals in the first 4 minutes with Dean Mathewson, Brad Hinterberger. Bernie Kaminski and .Tom Pahapill lighting the lamp. Middlebury's All-American goalie Brimsek had all he could handle with the young Union team. Pahapill made it 5-0 before Middlebury Hood leads Garnet squad T 11m H on d. a 20-ycar-old junior from Claremont. New Hamr~hirc. ha~ hren elrcted by hi' trammate~ to captain Union's 1976 foothall squad. The 5-I 0. 170-pound defensive halfhack will play his third year of football for Union next fall, his second as a letterman. The Union Dutchmen. under the coaching of Tom Cahill, will try to better their 1975 record of l-7. CahilL who entered his first year at Union this year after <>even vears as .head coach of Armv. ~-;aid he was \real pleased\ with his \quad's selection. \Ohviouslv. he has the respect of the other guys,\ he said. \He's a dedicated kid who will give the team some real leadership next fall.\ The Union football squad this week begins voluntary three- times-a-week practice in preparation for the fall's schedule. which includes Hobart. Williams and Middlebury CoJieges. Football foes Union did not meet last fall but will in 1976 are Colby College and Bates College. Hood. a mechanical engineering major, captained the football squad of Claremont's Stevens High School. from which he graduated in 1973. He ~s the son of Mrs. Donald Hood of Clarement. Attention all Basketball Rowdies! Unfortunately, there has been a distinct lack of rowdiness at home basketball games this year. Let's get with it! This Saturday from 6-8 p.m. the 'skeller will be honoring Union's basketball rowdies with a beer and pizza special at low inflation fighting rates. Come on down, fill up, and get psyched for the b-ball game against Hamilton! Anyone interested in maintaining crowd control during the distribution of hockey tickets at the Achilles Rink please contact Senior R.A. Joe Zolner, 2nd floor Fox. phone 346-9527. Come watch the Union Mermen swim against Trinity College at the Foote Pool on Jan. 28, at 3 p.m. scored on a screen shot, but Kevin Kardos got that score right back as he faked the goalie out of his skates and deftly slipped the puck h\!tween his legs for the score. Middlebury scored again on a power play. and the period ended with Union in command 6- 2. The second period started with the Garnet 2 men down, and Middlebury quickly netted their third goal. The rest of the period was pretty even. with the Dutchmen assuming command near the end of the .period and scoring when Skeeter Gazzola scored on a rebound. by, BILL P~CK Middlebury looked like they mi~ht make a game of it when they scored with just II seconds .gone in the third period,· but the Union defense rose to the occasion and shut them out the rest of the way. And again the Dutchmen's offense caught fire, this titne scoring 4 goals in 4 minutes at the end of the game. Tom Pahapil'l scored his third goal of the night on a rebound, Brad Hinterberger his second on a scramble ifl front of the net, Pahapill his fourth of the night after a picture pass from Kevin Kardos. and Grant Judd closed QUI the scoring by jamming in a rebound. Jim Baxter played another fine game .in the nets. stopping 27 of 3I Middlebury shots, with 2 of the visitor's scores coming while Union was 2 men down. The offense, led .by Pahapill's four goals, got off 40 shots on Brimsek. scoring bn almost a third of them. a remarkable statistic. In beating Middlebury the Dutchmen not only beat one of the better Di.vision ll teams in the east, they blew them right out of the rink. Coach Harkness felt the team played well throughout, Kevin Kardos putting one past All American goalie Brimsek. Union skaters destroyed this net- minder's.fine goals-against average Friday night. the third straight game which the Dutchmen hav_e played·· nearly flawless. One Middlebury . observer said he \felt Union lo@ked at least as good as UVM (ranked Jrd in the east in a preseason Div. I poll), who had beaten Middlebury 7-0.- 2 days earlier. Union, which has outscored lts opponents 68·34 in ten games. has the hardest part of the schedule behind them and the prospects for home ice in the Division H playoffs look awfully good. BOX SCORE PERIOD 1: Scoring ~ I) Union. Mathew<on. (Churchill. Hinterber~er). :59: .2l Union. Hinterherger. (Judd. Giallonardo) . . 1·20: :1) llnion. Kaminski (O'Connell. Sisler); :1 :5n:4l Union. Pahapill. (Jenkins). 3:44: Sl l'nion. PahapilL (Mar-halll. R:09: 61 Middlehu111. Bellew. (Ceglarskil. R:29: 7) l·lnion.·l<ardm. (O'Connel, Rankin). 10·29: RJ 'iliddlehtm. OiWle. (lean. Wnodv.orth.). 12·5\ Penalties ~ M1ddlehun. Anst11ick. elhowinp. n I: ( 'nion . .Schmal'. trippin~. .~:Sll: l'mon. Giallonardo. ho.-1k IDf!. 5·46. Middleh·urv. Gaha~en. 'la,hin~. 7·17. (Cinton. Mathey,..,on. ern..,-. checktn!!. II .26: Fniun. c.iallonardn. hnnkin~. II 2~. ~hddlehun. Fit1patr.ick. ht1!h ..,fJCkinf!. ·J J 1 ~: 'Vnior1 Rankin. h1~h. -.ru..:kiri!!. 1) 12. l'.' mon. Kaminski. ern\ checkm~. D·I2: (Inion. Hinterherj!er. interference. IH 4~: {lninn. Jenkin'. urppm,. 10 00 Shots: l'ntnn. 12. MiJdlehun 17 Saves: RB \tt•r. 15· Rn mo,e-k. (, PERIOD 1 - Scoring - 9) \olrddlehurv. Leary cBo>twick 1. :27. W) t:nmn. Ganola. Ganola. (Giallonardo. O'Connelll. IR: 14, Penalties - Middlehury. Gahagen. elho\\ ing, 4:05. Shots: Pnwn. 15: Mrddleburv. 4. SaYea: Raxter 1. Rrim,ek 14 · PERIOD 3 -: Storing - 1.11 Middlehun·. Fit7patrick CDovlel. :II: 121 Union. Pahapill c.ienkin,. Mai,hall). 1.4:24: 1.1) Union. Hinterherger (Judd. Churchill). 15:27: 14) t•ni\n. Pahapill (Kardn,). 17 00: 151 l'nion. Judd (.Churchilll.. 18:22. Penalties - Middlehu111. Gahagen. Elbov.ing. 2:1.1: l'ninn Giallnn~rdn. elhn\\inJZ. 5 J7 Middlehurv. Crump. trippin~. 11·0·5: M1ddlellur~. Gahe~!ten. m1:o.~onduct. !!arne mi .. cnnducf.. IR ~2: Pvfiddlehun. Wnndv.11rth. misconduct. IR:22 . Shots: Union. 13: Middleburv W. Total Shots: Union. 40: Middlehurv. 31. Saves: Raxter. 9: Brimsek. 9. · Total SaYes: Baxter 27. Brim~ek. 29. Legmen debut Friday p.m: by JEFF SCHEININGER Union's indoor track team ts Sherman. continuing its rigorous training The Garnet's sprinters and regimen in preparing for its runners are perhaps the hest they January 23 showdown against have ever heen. Theirs are the Williams and Middlebury, at the tr.ack events and thev include the fieldhouse. In an attempt to fiftv vard dash. the fiftv-five vard sharpen its skills. five team high- h~rdles, the 600. yard -run, mem hers attended an invitational the 1000 vard run. the one mile meet held at Dartmouth on run. and. the two mile run. January 17 and 18. Union's runners are: Milt It should be explained for all Herring, Lee Parish. Mark of you would-be track fans. that Decker. Bob Moffat. Dave the way one track team goes Ricks. Billy Auger, Steve ahout beating another track team is hy accumulating more points than the opposition. Points are awarded in the following way: for first place in any given event a team receives six points, for second-four points, for thir.d- three points. for fourth-two points. and for fifth-one point. The legman's coach, Ken Michelson. has put out the team roster. It is apparent from the roster that the team has great st renght and depth. The field evenb include the high jump. the long jump. the triple jump, the role vault. and the shot put. Tho..,e kam memhcr~ v.ho will he iumpin,l! for l'ninn are: Dave Plummer. Cliff Roger~. Keith C'rimmim. Dave Ricb, Kevin Harkenridcr. Don Rappold. and far! Chilton. llnion·, pole vaulters arc: Dave Ricks. Steve Mastaitis, Bruce Bonanno. and C'hri' Pike. The final field event. the shot put. features Pete Mastaitis and the brotherly team of Mark and Kevin Scheuer. The high hurdlers are: Mike May. Andv Barber. and Mark Decker. Rep~esenting lf nion in the ,Jong distance events are milers Steve Jones and Gregg Meyer. The two mile run also features Tom Lawson and Stari Wiskowski. The final track events are the one arrd two mile relay. In ~he one mile relav, Bob Moffat will take off followed by Dave Ricks, Billy Auger. and either Earl Chilton or Steve Mastaitis. In the two mile relav Bob Moffat will again lead off ·with Kevin Scheuer. Steve Jones. and Tom Lawson following. The only cloudy spot in the Garnets' otherwise hright future is the recent injury of shot putter Pete Sherman.-fils temporary loss will leave a gap in the lineup. However,. this one injury should not slow the Garnet speedsters. Jovial hoop scored by Kevin Schary in imramural hoop action. Not(!: Ace first baseman in background.

t: ~ I '~1 ..... It I t ~ I ! I. I! ': ,. f t \ r\ 'f t ~ 1: r 11 ~) rl I\ r . f p. ·I: I (1 ] ·.: . ' t ~ . l: .. '~\' unton Vol. 105, No. 12 Wedn~day, January 28, 1976 coli~,~ • -· on cor tensts . ' ' '• Tax\committee errs Activities is alloted. The sebool estimates that between $200-21:0 thausand ·is spent on activities each year, but $50•60 thousand -g; 1 oftl)at is revenue being brought s in each year. This leaves the total .;r money actually available ·at ~ $150,0:00: · 2000\ students giving ~ $15 per year in the form of a fj Student A;Qtivities Fee. ... by $40,000 br MICHAEL AFFINITO Throu~h a· \misinterpr~~afion\· of ·available r~sources the Student Tax Committee lias overbudgeted the various student organizations by '$40 1 000. As a resl!llt of this err(;)r ~,najor student activities will have to undergo secondary cuts in already lean · budgets. David . Eilbott, Chairman of Student Tax. states, \None of these cuts ·ar~ fat. Every one hurts.·~ -~rhe committee d<>leil out $40,000 more than was ~vailable, but tbe secondary c1,1ts will only amount to $20,000, lh~ ':reason given is that the various clubs and organizations cannot affotd to loose any more than the proposed $20,000. It appears that the actual amount of meney av~ilable is insufficient to fund the activities covered under the Student Activities budget. EHbott stated, \Even if we had realized the amount available, we would have had to spend $20,0.00 more than we had.\ The Misunderstanding During this past summer Pave Eilbott appro~ched Mr. David D·eacon. Supervisor of Accounting, to ascertain the art'wunt of. money that Student A hypothetical example of . how the system works would be a Social Committee concert. The committee ptans to spend $15,000 of their money for a · · conc~rt, but they can plan on $5000 in profit from ticket sales. Therefore a $20,000 concert can be brought to the sc'hool for $15~000. The $210.000 figure the College estir'na·tes is inclusive of the revenue to .be cellected. 8y Student Tax Mechanics using this figure as the amount of money which could be given oUt, Eilbott and the Tax Committe¢ have already included the The amount charged to Board. Another increase was st.uderits under the title of Student approved in 1974, bringing.the fee Acti:Vittes Fee is a set' St!m . to its present $75 .per year. ~tpproved. · by the - 1l:0ard. ---of : lt is e:l\pected that the Student . Trustees and incorporated into Tax Committee'. wlii-make. an revenue estimates in the budgets and are over-extended. , A(lministtative Rslle When asked to comment on .. the billing process o[ the :College. appeal to have the Student Tax The money comes int<l the raised for next year. Inflation and College ·and ...1$ funn~led to a an increase in the number of clubs separate account.· A:ny additonal that are being funded dicU!,te this. ihcome derived from Student · The Board of Trustees will Activities is placed in the account. consider the final proposal and' The money is then dispersed decide· whether or not it is sound- under the supervision and at the and . well-r~as.oned, and then discretion of the Student Tax efther approve or reject the the situation. Dale Timberlake, Trea~uter for the College. said, ••rnis is a Student Activities matter and we have nothing to say l!hout it up here.\ (See .. Student -Tax Mechanics\) He further explained tbat the College merely acts'as an \agent\ in assessing, co~lecting. ap.d keeping .,.tr·ack of Student David Eilbott, Chairman of The Student Tax Committee: \l went undttr the assumption that we could give out $200,000.\ .-- -- .. .;. Activities expenditures on the College budget.. Committee. · · proposal. The Student Tax Committee is solely responsible for dispensing and auditing .the money. If any assistance is required from the In essence, the College is acting as a bank, in that--it m~rely keeps trac·k .of . a bulk' atnount. Budgeting qJ, the mon~y is left entirely up to 'the student~boay, represented ~y the Student Tax Committee. ' ~· The Master Pl(Jn: ···Union's -future·: by' €HRIS O'CONNOR: _ Ldst wettk, · CONCOR-. DIENSJS·examined the positions · of several small col/(!ges relative mixed Union College recently published its .. Master Plan\ for the next four years. The document is required of a ·college The amount of the assessed fee is proposed by The Tax Committee, . which ·. takes its proposal to the Student Forum, who in turn submitthe request to . the Soard of Trqstees of the College. In 1969 an increase from $45 to $60 was approved by the · to their futwes. Since then, ' Union College has published its \Master Plart• for t_he next four Title IX: yean That plan, along with an intervi~w . conducti'd .yeSterday with Thomas N. ·.Bonner, President of Union College_jorm the basis of the following examination of Union's own prospects for the near futt.Jre. · by the New York State Department of Education. Therefore, it does not represent an assertion of principle by the College. President Bonner, by DA VID-MOSI(OWITZ As the January 31 Title- IX deadline Union has set fl>t itself rapidly draws near. initial information on se.x .- sex attitudes Surveyed <tiScnmmation, attitudes and policies has begun to trickle in. The Department of HEW states in its Title lX guidelines that \eq~a~ . opportunities\ must be available to members of both \announcmg that we intend to be sexes to meet demands in ~reas of , leaders, we'll be committed to athletics, financial· aid, being <leaders.\ He stated that counseling, housing, and s.tudent many other colleges would employment. Private college probably procrastinate in filing admissions an;: not included· in the Title IX discrimination Title IX guidelines, but Director reports until June or July. Also, of Admissions Jay Shupe has !arly compliance shows an volunteered his . department for attempt to demonstrate to women compliance. \HEW did not want that Union is no longer the male- ~ to determine the nature of private oriented school of a decade ago. f institutions .. : they wanted to Back in November, Dean ::: avoid any charges of ta!llpefing,\ Smith appointed faculty menllrers ii' said Dean Mark Smith in and administrators to probe the ·::: ~ describing the policy. He also areas of Iitle IX concern. Polls ~ mentioned that \we must. not and, questionnaires were make the mistake of ~~distributed in hopes of overemphasizing 'Iitle IX'' in discovering areas where pointing out that Union will discrimination exists, and in continue to consider theproblems whose minds it exists. Also. · of minorities. The Race Relations Smith distributed his own poll in Committee created 1Pst year will an a.ttempt to discover students' soon deal with these problems. attitudes. Having received only Dean of St,udents .Ma~k W. Smith Legally, impleinentation of about 50 responses, Smith Title IX guidelines must be remarked that \people aren't completed by July 21, 1976, but concerned enough at this point ... ·union has set the early deadline they'd rather wait until they see as a means of exercising some of the ·changes that are leadership. Smith, who is made.\ The poll responses along directing Union's Title IX . with -~eport~ made by the sub- complia~ce, -feels. that by Continued on Page 10 administration it comes on request, not out of an obligation to provide it. Timberla.ke commented; \It sounds to me iike there is a lack of responsibility 011 Continued on Page 3 •• views however, described the report as \more than just an expression of what we hope to do;\ it is a plan for the immediate future of Union. The report begins by asserting several r~tther gloomy \givens:\ the College's financial position will not improve, the student body will not grow. tuition will rise (faster than inflation) and enrollment and admissions problems will not ease. In light of the constraints, the future will not hold any new programs or significant .expenditure increases. Dr. Bonner stated that he hoped to work toward changing. \emphasis\ among the divisions, and lend a sense. of \excitement\ to the present programs of the College. Toward this end, curricular reforms are being investigated, · especially the Comprehensive Education program. Although the plan. places heavy emphasis on what it calls \participatory and decentralized budgeting;\ Dr. Bonner concedes that these techniques will be of little use without increases in revenues accomplished throUgh the areas of alumni, corporate, and foundation giving. He stated that \revenues will not grow at the same rate as expenditures,\ while expressing confidence that the financial. aid budget could be increased at least as fast as tuition costs. What . these budgeting procedures will do is allocate the available funds as fairly as possible, involving to as great a degree as possible the entire I - .-.- •·--- -· Continued on Page 10

s ,'; I '- I I l! II J .·~ t I l: r ,, jl ,. 1 !, \ .,; 1\ '{ 1 ~· ~ 1: li I I '~ I\ '!·' s ~· 'I: ' ,r l• 1· f !; 1: t t L II I ( ( I i .•f. I ·~ ~: I' .. . ... ,. unton Vol. 105, No. 12 Wednesday, January 28, 1976 colle:ge · • -· on cor ten-sts Tax··· committee \ - errs by $40,000 br MICHAEL AFFiNITO Through a· \misinterpre~atitm\ of available resources the Student Tax Committee has overbudgeted the various student organizations by $40,000. As a result of this error major student activities will have to undergo secondary cuts in already lean ·budgets. David Eilbott, Chairman of Student Tax, states, \None of these cuts -are fat. Every one hurts.\ ,The committee eoled out $<W;OOb more than was. available, but the secondary cuts. will only am01ant to $20,000. The reasort given is that the various clubs and organizations cannot affor<:l to loose any more than the proposed $20,000. It appears that the actual amount of money available is insufficient to fund the activities covered under the Student Activities budget. Eilbott stated, \Even if we had realized the amount available, we would have had to spend $20.000 more than we had.\ The Misunderstanding Dur.ing this past summer Dave Eilbott approached Mr. David Deacon, Supervis.or of Accounting, to ascertain the ari'tount of money that Student Student Tax Mechanics Activities is alloted. The school estimates that between $200-210 thousand is spent on activities each year, but $50-60 thousand -g., of tl:}at is revenue being brought ~ in each year. This leaves the total .r money actually av~ilable at ~ $150,000; · 2.00~\ students giving El $75 per year m the form of a .~ Student Activities Fee. .. A hypothetical example of . how the system works would be a Social Committee concert.. The committee pfans to spend $15,000 of their money for a concert, but they can plan 0n $5000 in profit from ticket sales. Therefore a $20,000 concert can be brought to the school for $15,000. The $210,000 figure the College estimates is inclusive of the revenue to be coHected. By using this figure as the amount of money which could be given out, Eilbott and the Tax Committee. have already included the revenue estimates in the budgets and are over-extended. Administrative Role When asked to comment on - . The amount cha.rged to Hoard. Another increase was students under the title of Student approved in I 974, bringing the fee Activities ·Fee is a set' sum to its present $75 per year. approved by the Board. o( ' It is expected that the Student Trustees and incorporated into Tax Committee-. wiH-make. an the billing process of the College. appeal to have the Student Tax The money comes into the raised for next year. inflation and College and . .i_s funneled to a an increase in the number of clubs separate account. Any additonal that are being funded dict1,1te this. income derived fr:om Student The Board of Trustees will Activities is placed in the account. consider the final proposal ~nd· The money is then dispersed decide whether or not it is sound under the supervision and at the and well-reasoned, and then discretion of the Student Tax either approve or reject the the situation, Dale Timberlake, Trea-surer for the College, said, ''This is a Student Activities matter and we have nothing to say about it up here.\ (See \Student ·Tax Mechanics\) He further expiained. that the College. merely acts as an \agent\ in assessing, collecting, and keeping ..-track of Student David Eilbott, Chairman of The Student Tax Committee: \I went under the assumption that we could give out $200,000.\ .. .:. Activities expenditures on the College budget. Committee. proposal. The Student Tax Committee is solely responsible for dispensing and auditing the money. If any assistance is required from the In essence, the College is acting as a bank, in that--it merely keeps track of a bulk. amount. Budgeting qf- the money is left entirely up t~ ·the student. boay,. represented by the Student Tax Committee. · The amount of the assessed fee is proposed by The Tax Committee, which · takes its proposal to the Student Forum, who in turn submit the request to the Boa:rd of Trustees of the College. ln 1969 an Increase frol;ll $45 to $60 was approved hy the Title IX: College by DAVID--MOSKOWITZ As the January 31 Title- IX deadline Union has set for itself rapidly draws near, initial i n fo r m a t i o n o n s e x .- The Master Plan: ···Union's -future= mixed by' eHRIS O'CONNOR' Union College recently published its \Master Plan\ for the next four years. The document is required of a college by the New York State Department of Education. Therefore, it does not represent an assertion of principle by the College. President Bonner, Last week, CONCOR- DJENSJS·examined the positions· of several small colleges relative to their futures. Sin<:e then, Union College has published its \Master Plan\ for the next four years. That plan, along with an intervi~w - conductef 'yeSterday with Thomas N. ·Bonner, President of Union CollegeJorm the basis of the following examination of Union's own prospects for the near future. sex ·attitudes Surveyed discnmmation, attitudes and policies has begun to trickle in. The Department of HEW states in its Title IX guidelines that \equal opportunities\ must be available to members of both .. announcmg that we inrend to be sexes to meet demands in areas of leaders, we'll be committed to athletics, financial aid, being leaders.\ He stated that counseling, housing, and student many other colleges would employment. Private college probably procrastinate in filing admissions are not included in the Title IX discrimination Title IX guidelines, but Director reports until June or July. Also, of Admissions Jay Shupe has ~arly compliance shows an volunteered his . department for attempt to demonstrate to women 'g. compliance. \HEW did not want that Union is no longer the male- a to determine the nature of private oriented school of a decade ago. ~ institutions .. .' they wanted to Back in November, Dean ~ avoid any charges of ta111pering;'' Smith appointed faculty members \ said Dean Mark Smith in and administrators to probe the ::: ~ describing the policy. He also areas of Title IX concern. Polls \' mentioned that \we must. not and· questionnaires were make the mistake of ~~distributed in hopes of overemphasizing 'Title IX\ in d isco.vering areas where pointing out that Union will discrimination exists, and in continue to consider the problems whose minds it exists. Also, of minorities. The Race Relations Smith distributed his own poll in Committee created l:>st year will an attempt to discover students' soon deal with these problems. attitudes. Having received only legally, implementation of about 50 responses, Smith Dean of Students Mark W. Smith Title IX guidelines must be remarked that \people aren't completed by July 21, 1976, but concerned enough at this point ... ·union has set the early deadline they'd rather wait until they see as a means of exercising some of the changes that are leadership. Smith, who 1s made.\ The poll responses along directing Union's Title IX . with report.~ made by the sub- compliance, .feels. tha-t by Continued on Page 10 administration it comes on request, not out of an obligation to provide it. Timberlake commented, \It sounds to me like there is a lack of responsibility on Continued on Page 3 • views however, described the report as \more than just an expression of what we hope to do;\ it is a plan for the immediate future of Union. The report begins by asserting several rather gioomy \givens:\ the College's financial position will not improve, the student body will not grow, tuition will rise (faster than inflation) and enrollment and admissions problems will not ease. In light of the constraints, the future will not hold any new programs or significant .expenditure increases. Dr. Bonner stated that he hoped to work toward changing. \emphasis\ among the divisions, and lend a sense. of \excitement\ to the present programs of the College_ Toward this end, curricular reforms are being investigated, especially the Comprehensive Education program. Although the plan places heavy emphasis on what it calls \participatory and decentralized budgeting,\ Dr. Bonner concedes that these techniques will be of little use without increases in revenues accomplished through the areas of alumni, corporate, and foundation giving. He stated that \revenues will not grow at the same rate as expenditures, .. while expressing confidence that the financial aid budget could be increased at least as fast as tuition costs. What these budgeting procedures will do is allocate the available funds as fairly as possible, involving to as great a degree as possible the enhre . - . --- --· -. Continued on Page l 0

Pagel CONCORDIENSIS, Wednesday, Jan. 2~. 1976 . . ·-. - c:r: - _ . . . nxr · Chinese dinner raffled for DayCare Center A raffle is being sponsored for the benefit of the Union College Day Care Center. The prize will be a Chinese dinner at the home of Prof. Reynolds of the Economics Dept. and his wife \){ oke San. Mrs. Reynolds has been heralded by Prof. George Butterstein as \the best cook in Schenectady.\ Dean Lichterman, winner of the raffle last year, is rumored to have already purchased l 0 tickets and is willing to buy more to assure another win. _ Tickets are availitble for $1.00 for singles and .$1.50 for couples · and are available at these locations until this Friday: Student. Actiyities Library Reference Desk Placement Housing ; Dean Lichterman's Of:t:ice Mrs. Lumpkin-Psychology Prof. George William- Steinmetz Prof. Bruce Reynolds- Economics The draWing will take place at midnight during the Chinese New ·Year's Party in Strauss Lounge, Friday January 30. Winners will be served dinner on Saturday Feb. 14, 1976. This is the Chinese . Lantern Day Festival. Dinner will be served at 7:30 p.m .• in the Reynolds' household on 1203 Oxford Place, Schenectady. Breslin .to speak On Tuesday, February third, famed journalist and noted raconteur Jimmy Breslin will speak in Memorial Chapel at 8:30 p.m. Tlte cost is twenty-five .cents for students, seventy-five for all others. Breslin, one of Queens' most famous beer drinkers, is widely known on the college lecture circuit. Jimmy Breslin ran for Gest-alt Through the initiative and .guidance of Professor Calabria, Union College is offering a rare opportunity for an in-depth study of Gestalt Therapy at the Gestalt Institute of Cleveland. Gestalt Therapy, a relatively new approach, is the process of making one aware of what he_ or she does, and in what way. This aspect of Humanistic psychology allows an individual to explore himself and others, as well as the community. By field work related to the students' interests and theoretical instruction, one learns through experience as opposed to solely lecture. - President of the New York City Council when Norman Mailer ran for Mayor; although they lost. the campaign brought attention to Breslin's literary talents. He has written syndicated newspaper columns, and has also been a TV news commentator. Breslin is the author of several books including: The Gang That Couldn't Shoot Straight, a satire on the Mafia; World Witbout End, Amen, the story of a New York cop's search for identity in Northern Ireland; and How the Good Guys Finally Won, the story of how the Judiciary Committee ''did in\ Dick Nixon. Above all, Mr. Breslin is brash, outspoken, and informative. He may be the last of the \beer drinking\ school of journalists, who write as they talk in a bar. . ' Bicentennial display in library s-CHENECTADY The celebrated W. Wright Hawkes Collection of Revolutionary War Documents, in the custody of Union College, will be put on revolving display throughout the year at Schaffer Library as part of the college's observance of the nation~s bicentennial. The collection contains 89 Revolutionary War documents, including 51 letters by George Washington, ten of which were wtitten from his Valley f3orge, Pa. winter quarters in 1777-,78. Also in the collection are letters by Benedict Arnold, John Adams, Benjamin Franklin, John Jay, John Hanc;ock, Philip Schuyler, and Alexande_r Hamilton, among other. Particularly signfiicant in the collection is a letter to Washington from Lt. Colonel John Jameson which gave Washingtofi his first hint that Benedict Arnold was a traitor. To go on display with the papers will 'be documents from · the collection of Stanley R. · Becker,.a 1948 graduate of Union, president of the wholesale <lrug firm. John L. Thompson Sons and Co .. , and holder of an honorary· degree from Union. Also displayed will be early Americoo currency from the collection of Ellis Robison. The dacume.nts and currency will be on display in the Schaffer Library foyer, replaced every two weeks or so with a new selection. The first display opened this week at the library. It featmes a _ letter from George Washington to Maj. General Alexander McDougall stressing the importance of letters ·of introductrion. and a letter written by. Benjamin Franklin in J 770 on the failure of the British ·Road test for van Parliament to repeal the Townshend Acts. The bulk of the W. 'Wright Hawkes collection is comprised Please be advised that a test will be required for all those organizational members who wish to drive the new Student Activity van, in conjunction with a club function. To avoid any possible confusion; all sign-ups for these road tests or for the use of the van itself, will be done through the Intramural office located in the gym. Should any student organization desire to use the of letters concerning military vehicle, but have no eligible driver · affairs addressed to McDougall, within .the club, there are a who commanded colonial forces number of qualified drivers who in tJ 1 e lower Hudson Valley. He can be assigrted to your group for later ~ucceeded Benedict Arnold a minimal charge. Aside from as commander of West Point. these expenditures, clubs will Qnly The papers were turned over to be responsible for the gas spent the college by John L. Hawkes of during their use of the van. Once DorseL Vt., the great-great-great- again, all clubs wishing to make grandson of General McDougall. use of this ~wly acquired vehicle His grandfather, w. Wright should remember to sign up well Hawkes, had catalogued some of in advance so as to guarantee its the letters and started a availability· biography of General McDougall. The announcement of the letters' existence in 1968 caused a Poe_t at Boys' Club nation-:wide stir. Life Magazine, which ran an eight-page feature on the letter~. called tham \one of the great finds of the present The 411 Union St. Center of the Schenectady Boys' Club will open its first. Cafe of the wint.er season on Friday, January 30, from 7:30 to II :00 p.m. Featured is Fob Lee, who will present a poe ry reading. It will be foll1 ·wed by a slide show, backed by nusic, of his 9,000 mile hitch- hiki 1g trip across the country. Lee describes his poetry as being · \Ta >ist influenced, seeking mat !mal roots, as opposed to paternal Western society.\ L!e is a graduate of SUNY at . . ,~~~~ .. ~~~'~,~~~~~~ Cortland where he received a. B.A. in Sociology. During his January years at Cortland he served as 29, Union's Pre-Law society will editor of Transition Magazine, present the first in a series from 1973-1975 and headed the guest lectures on various aspects Transition Workshop. He was of the legal profession. This also chief editor of the literary meeting will include eight magazine at Cortland. He is from the Capital presently conducting a Creative on topics ranging from Writing Workshop at the Union ..... ~'\\'\ Aid law to the role and St. Center. sponsibilities of judges. Also appearing will be a local will be held in Old musician. There will be a small at 8 p.m.; admission is admission charge. The public and the student body is invited to attend. invited to attend. -l!llil!!lfl The intensive ten-week program is not restricted to students of psychology; it is open to all interested. Suggested prerequisites for participation include at least one year of college education and a basic· psychology course such as Psych. 10 (Humanistic· psychology is also strongly recommended). The program .is equivalent to a semester on campus of three course credits. The fee of $800 • includes tuitiqn only. For further information contact Professor Calabria in the Psychology 'Building.• RITE IT AKY WAY YOU WANT, BUT WRITE IT·! Blood Drive There will be a blood drive on Wednesday. Februuary 4, in Alumni Gym. The format is different from past visits because twice as many Red Cross personnel will be on hand, so that 300 people can donate in one day instead of the usual two- day visit. Please give this drive support by making an appointment to give blood on Febmary 4 between 11 a.m. and 5 p.m. Appointments can be made in Mrs. Marra's office any weekday between 8:30a.m. and 5 p.m. . l The Union Book is seeking to make the Union Book YOUR Union Book. By each senior picture we are asking all seniors to write a blurb that is either an original or eopied statement and should not exceed SO words. This blurb will be placed by your picture. These statements can be merely \good-bye\ or \poot• tweet,\ humorous or serious, or any other thought that may come to your ingenious minds. The statements can be handed in to either the STUDENT ACTIVITIES OFFICE or the Union Book SENIOR STATEMENT B.OX located in the MAIL ROOM. Deadline for submission of these statements has been set at Ja~mary 31, 1976. / I . '· ' . • • •

• ons an .on. nly the ncy ffer two '\· this ~s a . :ton der the of tter 1 in tish the ight ised tary ~all, rces He told r to s of eat- ~all. ight : of a ~II. the :d a :ine, ture 'one sent tary will of ects rbis ight ital :om and :es. Old 1 is is I I I Forum ba.cks Voice, 'kinky' gifts by SUE DRAPER ' The meeting of the student forum held last Wednesday,. January 23 tn Fox Lounge· was mainly concerned with the sanc;:tion of the Campus Voice, a second campus newspaper. The Voice, it was proposed, would be a medium of investigative reporting and provide art ~lternate viewpoint on college events and problems. Another advantage expressed was that the Voice could he a haven for staff members who have a ··bone to pick\ with Concordy's editors, or vice-versa. The Ca:rnpus Voice will be published hi-mon'thly as a fou:r page insert in Conc«>.-dy. lts budget i1> currently set at $311)0, barring possible future cuts by the Tax Committee. A proposa-l to incorp9rate the Voice into the organization of Concordicnsis was defeated, vote taken that recommended that the student tax be raised. Suggestea improvements of the BoQ'kstore were presented by Blair Riechler representing the Bookstore Committee. They included: I) the sale of munchies, 2) lower bMk costs; 3) sale of magazines, 4) an improved novel collection, 5) sale of .off-beat or \kinky\ gifts, 6} more Union- emblemed items, 7) lower calculator costs, 8) sale of plants, 9).. more contests, 10} sale of tennis halls and cigarettes, I l) ha.ve the Bookstore open on Saturday, and 12) use Grant-In- Aid students. Limitations cited were the small operating space of the Bookstore, and the fact that all pwfits must go into a scholarship fund. By· unanimous vote, _the Speaker's forum was made a committee. Thereafter the meeting disbanded. \. 0 0 '[ Page3 P.I{A:CTICAL SEW~NG TECRNIQI!:ES by SUSANNE J. FRISCH costume designer , Tues1_ Ja~. 27 .... Pl!_ttem and fabric selection * pattern layout \' alter!ng * cutting • interfacing • lining * Thurs. Jan. 29 - closures * hems • :dppers * ~e of machine Tues. Feb~ 3-- CLOTHING CONSTRUCTION DESIGN All ciasses begin at 7:30 J .•• ·- . - -· -· ., \c. •• '-'·' Nott Men10tial Theater, UniQil College Information: 370-6128 U nfortuiui.tely., funding of the Campus Voice and other student organizati\qns is suspended due to the curre\iit · de\fij.:it in· the Tax: Committee's budget. ihe fina·ncial crisis that now confronts the Tax Committee was initially brought up in the meeting of the Studen.t Forum. Due to misaalculati.ons in-the amount of revenues received from events, the Tax Committee has overbudget~d approximately $35,000. Unless add-ihibnal funds are · ra:ised~ drastic. fund~ng cuts. will have to b~ made._ An ' argument ensUea abeut whether or not the <..: ...... Voiqe was a scapegoat of diese proposed b_udget 7 cuts~ Discu~sion on the issue was terminated by a F einsot retUrn·s to take post as Dean by . changes have been implem~nted, degrees are offered. One personal suggestion made by AUDREY ROtHSCHILD but the Dean wants the entire When Aaron Feinsot came the Dean was the creation of a After almost 30 years; Aaron undergraduate and adulf studep.t back to Union to undertake his jazz course which could be taken Feinsot has come back to his body t_o k~ow ~hat, ther~ i~'ta p~esent p_osition,_ he bro~ght with ~y stu_dents i-nterested _ in alma mater as the new Dean .of story m this office.·. One factor h1m phtlosoph1es which may mformatwn rather than credit. Gradl,f~te Studies and Continuing which led Feinsot to accept his prove beneficial to both the Dean Fein sot's other Education. In his new position, rrew responsibility was the College community and outisde philosophy has led to an effo-rt to Dean Feinsot is responsible for all encouragement be received from adult population. The Dean's bring housewives, retired and pre- graduate programs, part-time President Bonner and Dean thrust is to a new audience other retired ·people, and . blue collar instruction, summer school· Ent~man w)J.o are.· enthusiastic than the undergraduate day workers onto ·the campus to programs,~ al).d non-cre~it -coutsl·-~about h,is ideas. A.eombination of students, but he is hoping that finish, start, or supplement their -offerings. During the three weeks· his innovative ideas and the more o.f these students will enroll higher education. Next fall, the he has held the new office, no new ... support of the administration.. in graduate level and night school department hopes to offer a pre- ... \- ......... ~ . ~:' '' .· .',, I j · .. · Iritelle'ctu-al Cabaret a h_it The Intellectual Caba'ret got off to a strong start Monday night .when Ed Craig of the Electrical Engineering department and. Bilr l:higen of the English department led a discussion on \Creativity in the Arts and Sciences.\ Marshall Wisoff deftly handled the active audience While moderating the discussion. The Intellectual Cabaret grew out of a desire- by Sigma· Xi and Phi Beta Kappa to stimulate intellectual discussion and thought. The two organizations wanted to be informal and refrain from the traditional seminar approach. l'he next Cabaret will feature John Boyer and Bob Baker · speaking on \Genetics and Ethics\ on Monday, February 2. The ''Food For Thought., Shoppe . ' ~ . . It'\s A New Idea For U~ion ~College \StUt!ents\ From SAGA! ; ( ·- A quiet place to study, meet and socialize with Special Food andSmicks available at Low, Low Prices~ * Open ~unday thru Thursday from 9:00~1:00 in the evening at \.J Hale House · Try us instead of I before I after the Library MENU BEVERAGES Coffee, 1'ea, Hot Chocolate: 15e .Sot'la, Punch, I~ed Tea: 20.30c: Milk: 30-40t -Juice:· 30-40t SNACKS Pi~45c: · Cake: 40t ·Fmit:tse Yogurt: 45c: . Cblps:. 15e Bagels & Cream Cheese: 25¢ English Muffins: 20c: Hard·-Rolls: 30t :roast: ll,le .... . DELI-STYLE SANDWICHES. & SUBS Roast Beef: 50t 51.40 llam: 70c: $1.25 H11~ & Cheese: 85c: 51.40 Hot Corned Beef: 75c: 51.30 Hot Pastrami: 75c: $1\.30 Ail Combinations: $1.50 OTHER ITEMS . Pastries -Donuts Candy Cookies EXTRAS Tomato:5c: loasted: Sc: Extra Cheese: 1511: will guarantee a ·change . in courses. He· has sensed a large retirement counselling program Union:s ,..Jon.g .. unheard-of division between the graduate and and this spring it may offer a Graduate Studies and Continuing undergraduate student body and course for people who own or Education Depa.rtinent. intends to alleviate the \alien\ manage their own business. Dean -Presently, Union offers. attitudes the general student body Fejnsot summarized his graduate school courses, Phl>. has towards evening courses. He phifosop-hy by ·stating; \I find it programs. in Life Science Systems believes that · gradu3:te scho<;>l extraordinarily stimulating and and Administration and courses could assist day students thrilling to demonstrate to people _Engineering Systems, in testing their interests. At that learning can continue undergraduate night school present, 138 undergraduate day throughout life. It makes no . classes, and summer and non- students are taking advantage of difference who they are or where credit programs. Urider the graduate level courses, ·but the they come from. They are human guidance of the new dean, this Dean's goal is to increase this beings with human potential that once .. reactive\ department hopes total. An inerease in the almost can be turned on by education.\ to offer more subject areas on non-existent interaction between The Department of Graduate graduate, part-time, and non\' undergraduate day students and Studies and Continuing credit. courses and hope's to adUlt students would prove both Education hopes to receive establish a number of new socially and intellectually student suggestions for programs individual courses as well. Dean beneficial. Beyond the graduate or student help in creating them. Feinsot also -added that too few school and part-time courses, \Not everything will work but people are aware of the graduate \'Dean Feinsot hopes to expand that doesn't mean you should not school branches in Poughkeepsie the number of non-credit courses. try.\ and Pittsfield, where , electrical engineering and computer science Apathy st;udy In . an effort· to determine ways of making college activities more accessible to students who want to get involved, the Student Life Committee has established a group to examine the barriers to wider individual par,ticipation in all aspects of college life. The \Politics of Activities\ Study Group is in~erested in pinpointing exactly what causes studenl apathy and lack of .involvement . In order to do this, we would like to hear from, you. We need to know how and why YOJ.l are or are not involved] ' ·. i . · We don't know all the answers! We need you tg tell us what you perceive to be the problems. lf you have any personal· expe.riences or general observations that you think would help Us to get to the bottom of the problem, please contact Judy Arbit at 370-663S, or sign up in the Mail Room and we'll contact you. Tax 'misunderstanding' Continued from Page l the part of someone on the Student Tax Committee.\ Repercussions As · a result of the mistake, most major clubs and ·organizations will probably undergo cuts in their budgets. The Tax Committee has already drawn up a proposal to cut $20,000 from_ approximately 25 activities. The proposed cuts are being submitted to the Student Forum for approval tonight. Eilbott says, \We decided to cut hack $20,000 and run $20,000 in the red.\ The ''red\ $20,000 can 'by covered by a $33,000 reserve fund and a $9,500 surplus from last year's · budget. Even so the remainder of this year will be one of austerity unless Student Tax can formulate a plan tor obtaining additional revenue to fill in the spaces. left by the newly proposed cuts. Ol'le idea which has been offered is to request that students donate a part of their $100 matriculation fee to the Student Activities budget. An appeal to alumni has also been suggested. It is possible that a plea could be rnade to the Board of Trustees for an emergency increase in Student Tax. Such an increase would have to be approved immediately and be retroactive over the past two terms to be effective. It is unlikely that the Board will go along with such a proposal on such short notice. If the proposed cuts go into effect, as they· undoubtedly will, grave economic pressures will be exerted on many organizations. The whole problem stems from two factors, an expensive oversight by The Student Tax Committee and an insufficient Student Tax.

• . ' Page4 CONCVRjj.JENSIS, Wednesday; Jan. 28, 1976 .. -. - -- • -· . -·- • . -· •. - -- . . • J. arts / Schenectady Museum: by DIANE NELSON A visit to the Schenectady Museum this week td view two displays presented .both a pleasant surprise and a disappointment. An impressive display of sculpture, originating from the Sculpture Center, located at 167 East 69th Stveet in New York City, opened January 24. The Sculpture Center is a non-,profit organization devoted exclusively to the art of sculpture. Robert Cook's \Revolution\ at the Schenectady Museum. The exhibition. consists of forty pieces; it is a diverse collection of sculpture done i·rt many different mediutns and styles. Different mediums utilized include matble, bronze, acrylic, slate, fiberglass, l'ilver, steel, aluminum, terra- cotta, rosewood, ebony, glass and African wonder stone, Sculptural techniques .represented are as. Free figure skating in the rink diverse as the mediums. Styles range from the more classical and comical male fiberglass figure entitled \Spring\ by James Kearns, to the very abstract and delicate lucite-platinum and plated bronze piece by Ted Robill'son entitled \Suspension #59.\ by KATE SILVERI and JUDY COHEN An unusual piece by Livio Segus is eyecatching. The work, entitled \Fetus Submerged\ offers an excellent opportunity shows a blue glass fetus, the size · for all members of the Union ('If a newborn baby, caught in a community. It provides a chance glass:- bubble. The effect is for all, to learn a new sport and mystical and connotes an profit from this new and exciting· awesome feeling about the facility. Despite the opinions' of creation of new life. Achilles Rink has provided not \ ,only ·<l hpckey prQgram for Union many students, the rink is more The most · well-repr~sented than simply a place to watch the artist in the show is Robert Cook Hockey team compete. Everyone wl!h six works ~n ~i~play. Cool~'s is encouraged to participate in the mixed mediums works are exCitmg pieces fi.Jied with movement and energy. His bronze \Revolution~· is of special interest. At a distance, it appears .to be purely an abstract work. But when viewed closely, clusters of people, apparently caught in action, can be seen. A feeling of turmoil and unrest is projected, Numerous other pieces are worth seeing. George Cerny's .\Reverie done in Italian marble, portrays a stout but graceful female figure. Leo Amino's \Reflectional #59,\ done in acrylic, appears almost like a magnified group of water droplets. David Burt's \The Winds #11,\ done in hammered bronze, is a hanging sculpture. It ' is a visual representation of the non-visual, powerful winds. The sculpture show will be on display · at the Schenectady Museum through March 28, 1976. The broad range of styles provides for many artistic tastes. Just one criticism: some classical pieces would have been appreciated. On a 1 less pleasent note, , the works of painter Gunter Korus proved to' be a disappointment. This show opened December 14 1975, and will run through February 8, 1976. It is a relatively larg~ show consisting of thirty- seven works. All works ar~ up for sale with prices ranging from $225 · to $2,400. Kotus' main' themes include landscapes, woodland scenes, and still lifes. Korus' l;;tndscapes and wood.land scenes are trite renderings which unsuccessfully attempt realism. The works look like the sort of paintings one sees oH the walls of Holiday Inns; they lack feeling and any real grip on reality. . The still lifes on display are much finer than the landscapes. 1 They hacve a firmer gFasp on re- ality and lack the \paint-by- numbers\ pretty look of the landscapes anq woodland scenes. Mr. Korus has been an art director in New York City. He has had a studio. in Gloversville, New York for a number of years, and works in a wide variety of mediums: oils, watercolors, acrylics, charcoal, and etching. He has exhibited throughout the Northeast. Two other. shows of interest now at the Schenectady Museum -are \Schenectady in American Technology'' and Chris DeMarco's stuffed paintings. The technology show illustrates Schenectady's cantribution to technological development in the past 85 years. Chris DeMarco is an artist from Albany who utilizes oils on 'linen in her unusual stuffed paintings, which 'deal primarily with representations of shells. Although not ·all of the shows at the museum are of interest,' on the whole, visits there prove to be informative. Right now a, visit to the museum wot!ld be extremely worthwhile; the sculpture show is a fine exhibition. · but has given· the College community the opportunity to learn how to skate. Figure skating is now being offered on Mondays and Wednesdays from 9:30 a.m. to 10:30, Tuesdays and Thursdays from 10:30 a.m. to 11:30, imd on Fridays from 9:30 a.m. to 11:30. Both students and faculty are eligible to-participate. The lessons are free of charge and all skaters, including beginners, will benefit from the instruction. skating program, for it is a most enjoyable sport that with just a little bit of time and effort, everyone can learn. The· SUNY at Albany Concert Boord ftesents The two instructors are Skip Butler and Sue Portio. Mr. Butler is involved with the Mohawk Skating Club and other local groups. Sue is a freshman here and comes from Buffalo, New York. Although she has had little teaching experience, Sue has been skating for six years with the Buffalo Skating Clup. Sue tries to teach her students what she herself has learned through many years of instruction and practice. Both instructors have to deal with skaters of varying ability in the same class, students who do not come. to every lesson, and occasional schedule mix-ups. Despite these obstacles, both are . doing a terrific job and the studen~s seem to be enjoying the lessons and learning quickly. The figure skating program ---. -~ ---~ --··' .. .' fERRO*S PHARMACY· PLANT BABYSITTING Vernine'a PJotBooaa Has Moved 1601 Union St. 3.72-6760 THE FlLM COM'MITTEE presents The Three Musketeers Fri. 10 Sat., Sun., 7, !t, 11 inSS016 New Price $1.00 ·B.· Grau.bart & Sons _____ _.,. _____ 'The fay St; Jeweler' 'Setving Union For Three Generations' 166 Jay St. · J~uaUty~& Fine Workmanship · HERSHEL MAURICE B WALTER Peter Frampton AND SPECIAL- GUEST . r DAVID SANCIOUS At the Palace Theatre . . FRI. FEB. 6 Tickets:'- $3.50 SUNY A students WITH TAX CARD $6.00 General , Public TICKETS ON SALE JAN. 29TH At SUNY A ·cAMPUS CENTER GAMEROOM --------- ANDAT The Palace 8:00pm •

Page4 CON~ORDIENSJS,. Wecinesday, Jan. 28, 1976, arts ' 0 ' ! : ' • ' • ', 0 0 n ~ ' • 0 0 o• ' 0 ~ ' • • • 0 0 ' 0 ,' 0 ' ~ > ' 0 • 0 0 • • ' • ' 'j ',, 0 > • ' ' •< • Ro~ert Cook's \Revolution\ at the Schenectady Museum. Free figure skating in the rink by KATE SILVERI and JUDY COHEN Achilles Rink has provided not only a hockey program for Union but has given the College community the opportunity to learn how to skate. Figure skating is now being offered on Mondays and Wednesdays from 9:30 a.m. to 10:30, Tuesdays and Thursdays from 10:30 a.m. to II :30, imd on Fridays from 9:30 a.m, to 11:30. Both students and faculty are eligible to participate. The lessons are free of charge and all skaters, including beginners, will benefit from the instruction. The two instructors are Skip Butler and Sue Portin. Mr. Butler is involved with the Mohawk Skating Club and other local groups. Sue is a freshman here and comes from Buffalo, New York. Although she has had little teaching experience, Sue has been skating for six years with the Buffalo Skating Club. Sue tries to teach her students what she herself has learned through many years of instruction and practice. Both instructors have to deal with skaters of varying ability in the same class, students who do not come to every lesson, and occasional schedule mix-ups. Despite these obstacles, both are doing a terrific job and the students seem to be enjoying the lessons and learning quickly. The figure skating program fERRO'S PHARMACY offers an excellent opportunity for all members of the Union community. It provides a chance for all to learn a new sport and profit from this new and exciting facility. Despite the opinions of many students, the rink is more than simply a place to watch the Hockey team compete. Everyone is encouraged to participate in the skating program, for it is a most enjoyable sport that with just a little bit of time and effort, everyone can learn. PLANT BABYSITTING Venine'1 Plant lootn Has Moved 1601 Union St. 372-6760 HealthyPlants Gt Selections Come in and look for Valentines Day Open at 10 THE FILM COMMITTEE presents The Three Musketeers Fri. 10 Sat., Sun., 7, 9, 11 in SS016 New Price $1.00 uric.e B.· Grauhart & Sons 'Serving Union For Three Generations' 166 Jay St. . 9uality Service & Fine Workmanship· 'The Jay St. Jeweler' HERSHEL MAURICE B WALTER Schenectady Museum: by DIANE NELSON A visit to the Schenectady Museum this week to view two displays presented both a pleasant surprise and a disappointment. An impressive display of sculpture, originating from the Sculpture Center, located at 167 East 69th Street in New York City, opened January 24. The Sculpture Center is a non-profit organization devoted exclusively to the art of scuLpture, The exhibition consists of forty pieces; it is a diverse collection of sculpture done in rnany different mediums and styles. Different mediums utilized include marble, bronze, acrylic, slate, fiberglass, ~ilver, steel, aluminum, terra- cotta, rosewood, ebony, glass and African wonder stone. Sculptural techniques represented are as diverse as the mediums. Styles range from the more classical and comical male fiberglass figure entitled \Spring\ by James Kearns, to the very abstract and delicate lucite-platinum and plated bronze piece by Ted Robinson entitled \Suspension #59.\ An unusual piece by Livio Segus is eyecatching. The work, entitled \Fetus Submerged\ shows a blue glass fetus, the size 0f a newborn baby, caught in a glass bubble. The effect is mystical and connotes an awesome feeling about the creation of new life. The most well-represented artist in the show is Robert Cook wl!h six works on _9i~play, Coo~'s mixed mediums works are excmng pieces fiHed wi,th movement and energy. His bronze \Revolution\ is of special interest At a distaF~ce, it appears to be purely an abstract work. But when viewed closely, clusters of people, apparently caught in action, can be seen. A feeling of turmoil and unrest is projected. Numerous other pieces are worth seeing, George Cerny's \Reverie done in Italian marble, portrays a stout but graceful female figure. Leo Amino's \Reflectional #59,\ done in acrylic, appears almost like a rnagnified group of water droplets, David Burt's \The Winds ltll,\ done in hammered bronze, is a hanging sculpture, It is a visual representation of the non-visual, powerful winds. The sculpture show wiU be on display at the Schenectady Museum through March 28, 1976. The broad range of styles provides for many artistic tastes, Just one cr.iticism: some classical pieces would have been appreciated. On a less pleasent note, , the works of painter Gunter Korus proved to be a disappointment. This show opened December 14, 1975, and will run through February 8, 1976. It is a relatively large show consisting of thirty- seven works. All works are up for sale with prices ranging from $225 to $2,400. Korus' main themes include lamlscapes, woodland scenes, and still lifes. Korus' landscapes and woodland scenes are trite renderings which ansuccessfully attempt realism, The works look like the sort of paintings one sees on the walls of Holiday Inns; they lack feeling and any real grip on reality. The stil'l lifes on display are much finer thalil the landscapes. 'They have a lirmer grasp on re- ality and lack the \paint-by- numbers\ pretty look of the landscapes and woodland scenes, Mr. Korus has been an art director in New York City. He has had a studio in GloversviHe, New York for a number of years, and works in a wide variety of mediums: oils, watercolors, acrylics, charcoal, and etching. He has exhibited throughout the Northeast. Two other shows of interest now at the Schenectady Museum . are \Schenectady in American Technology\ and Chris DeMarco's stuffed paintings. The technology show illustrates Schenectady's contribution to technological development in the past 85 years, Chris DeMarco is an artist from Albany who utilizes oils on linen in her unusual stuffed paintings, which deal primarily with representations of shells. Although not all of the shows at the museum are of interest, on the whole, visits there prove to be informative. Right now a visit to the museum would be extremely worthwhile; the sculpture show is a fine exhibition, The SUNY at Albany Concert Board Presents Peter Frampton AND SPECIAL GUEST ' DAVID SANCIOUS At the Palace Theatre FRI. FEB. 6 Tickets:~ $3.50 SUNY A students WITH TAX CARD $6.00 General . Public TICKETS ON SALE JAN. 29TH AT SUNY A CAMPUS CENTER GAMEROOM AND AT The Palace 8:00pm ·I· r ·,r P''r, ,. '\ . ! ! . ·r I . I I ~~ q· '. j' l .

trite look sees ; they on y are re- the art He ty of the seum The to the is ·deal of on to be to is .. \ .CONCORDIENSIS, Wednesday, Jan. 28, 1976 Page5 arts Music: Grammy _award predictions by DAN ROSENBAUM On February 28th, the members of NARAS (the National Association of Recording Arts and Sciences) will gather to bestow the Grammy awaJ:ds. Grammys are given in four basic categories:. Classical, Jazz, Rhythm & Blues; and Pop music. Note that - Pop, not Rock. That explains the phenomenon of Henry Mancini's winning something like 12 Grammys and · the Carpenters having won about six of them, while the Rolling Stones and Neil Young have never everi been nominated. Looking at this year's nominations, one would think that Bob Dylan was a talented author of liner notes, that Janis Ian was the most important recording artist of the year, and that people lrke Neil Young and Bruce Springsteen didn't exist. Of course, some years the best talent is in both the worlds of rock and pop, such as Stevie Wonder's masterpiece. Innervisions (5 Grammys in 1973), ot SimOJ:l & Garfunkel's Bridge Over Troubled Water, which took seven of the awards in 1970. (I still ·can't understand how Abbey Road was , . . .· . . ·'~ Winter Carnival Wednesday, Feb. 4 11:30 a.m.-1:30 p.m. - Iced Tug of War Preliminaries Achilles Rink, 7 heats :per day, schedule will be posted. ' Thursday, Feb. 5 11:30 a.m.-1:30 p.m. - Iced Tug of War Preliminaries, Rink. . Friday, Feb. 6 ll:30 a.m.-1:30 p.m. ~ Iced Tu2 of War Preliminaries, Achilles Rink. 7:30p.m. -ICED TUG OF WAR FINALS 1, 2nd, 3rd place, Rink. 8:30 p.m. -OBSTACLE COURSE, Achilles Rink, will start immediately followi~g Tug of War tmals. 9:00 p.m. - STUDENT-FACULTY BROOMBALL GAME Achilles Rink 10:00 p.m. - CHAMPAGNE COFFEEHOU~E Diane Scanlin, Old Chapel, 75¢ Saturday, Feb. 7 l2:QO· p.m. - Cross Country Race - The Outing Club will be running a cross country race for anyone interested, around the campus, starting at the Old Chapel. For entries, contact Judy at 370-6512. I :00 p.m. - . SNOW SCULPTURE JUDGING - beginning at Sigma Phi . · 1:00 p.m.- To warm the ears and toes ·Of everyone, hot cocoa and donuts will be served in the Old Chapel during an afternoon of snowball fights, flagpole burying contests, angels and general chaos. Get your posteriors out of the dorm or fraternity and come on down. 2:00 p.m. - CHUG A LUG CONTEST - support your contestant at Library Plazw. 5:00-10:00 p.m. .:o.... CANDLELIGHT ' DINNER reservations in Student Activities Office, semiformal, BYOB, Hale House 7 and 9 p.m.- The Film Committee Presents Lenny. · 8:00 p.m. - Basketball - UNION VS KINGS POINT, Fieldhouse 10:00 p.m.-2:00 a.m. - WINTER CARNIVAL BALL - (semi-formal, tickets in Student Activities), Ramada Inn 11:00 p.m. - AWARDS CEREMONY - President Bonner, Master of Ceremonies, Ballroom, Ramada Inn. Sunday, Feb. 8 1:00-4:00 p.m.·- SKATING AND SNlJRFING PARTY, Hot Rum and Cider served (rent skates at Achilles Rink, if needed), Girliij.g Center. ~ so gross.ly overlooked that year.) Needless to say, I dislike the Grammys. I find them too narrow and commercial. But they're the acknowledged top awards in the recording industry, and I suppos~ they reflect the opinions of the mainstream, which is why they're so important, and worth spending time on. Herein are my choices and my picks for probable winners in a few of the categories. Record (single) of the year: The nominees:· \At Seventeen,\ Janis Ian; \Love Will Keep Us Together,\ Captain & Tenille; \Lyin' Eyes,\ Eagles; \Mandy~·; Barry Manilow; \Rhinestone Cowboy,\ Glen Campbell. \Love\ should win this one. It . got mop.ster airplay this summer, and has been re-recorded in a couple of foreign languages. Also, . it has an incredible hook line to it. My persoual choice is \At . Seventeen,\ but none of the choices excite me too much. Album of the year: Between the Lines, Janis Ian; Capt. Fantastic • and the Brown Dirt Cowboy, Elton John; Heart Like A Wheel, Linda Ronstadt; One of These Nights, Eagles; Still crazy After All These Years, Paul Simon. All bets are off Oil this one. I'd Continued on Page 10 Winter Carniva~: photo by Arthur Miller / A. weeke:nd to remember CANDLELIGHT DINNER ·~ogte. fraternity team. I he faculty teams A · f, 1 dl r h Tickets for the ball can be are being coordinated by Bob .t... r~ t' s~lml lb~ orhmald casn e Idg t picked up free of charge fn the Driscoll. Interested faculty or ..,-u ·te WI e e on atur ay St d t A . . . orr· s· . ff h ld h' F b 7 · H 1 · H · 0 . . .· u en cttvlhes 1ce. 1gn up sta s ou contact 1m. Re · ' ;n ~ e 10 ouse ;mn.g early, as the capacity of the hall is All the RA's ,and fraternity uoo~ t /~~ t - . h~·~·. htt IS only 1,000 people. presidents should be working on d s. g~. s e '·th a thyou . Ig Igf. the The night wouldn't be the same organizing teams and participants mmg wt e wme o your 'th h f h f, h · · 1 h · ('BYOB) S d . h WI out t e presence o t e · or t e wmter carmva events. ~ ~;c~ ·n b · erv~ a~b t ~ faculty. Please feel free to attend! One representative from each , b u / Cwt e ~oast. pnme n s · 0 The Winter Carnival Brochure, living unit should be chosen for e~. omt~ an enJoy.$ 3 00 with further details, will be the obstacle course (sorry, hockey eserva mn~, atd t: · . P 1 er published and available in the players excluded), for the Chug-a- persoln, must e mt. a e. orssmgd es, mailroom on Friday, January 30. Lug Contest, and for the cpup es. or par 1es m tu ent .- · B b 11 G A . 'tt' ·u· t t' ~Th d · TEAMS room a arne. A ten-man or c1 VI es s ar mg urs ay, h' · d f' January 29. Much like intramurals, Winter t trteen-woman or stx an tve WINTER CARNIVAL Carnival competitions will be co-ed ~e~m m~st be chosen from SEMIFORMAL BALL between fraterni~y teams and each hvmg um.t for the lced Tu~ Adorned with plush.red carpets and gold chandeliers, tqe Ramada Inn ballroom should provide an excellent atmosphere for the Winter Carnival Semiformal Ball. The \Great Estate,\ a Vegas style show band, will perform music from disco to ballad, jazz to dorm teams wtth the added of War. A hst of contestants attraction of faculty .members if names. for each team must be they dare. Students living off- sub~1~ted .to the Student campus may add on to a dorm or Activities off1ce by 3:00 p.m. on . C_ontinued on Paae 1.1 TRI-CITY RACQUET CLUB Route 9, latham a mile north of the circle 785-4311 :•e••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••e•••••••••••••••••• • • COLLEGE NIGHT! .374-5921 GEORGE;S. MUSIC STORE' Student Discou~ts 508 State St.· Sclrenectady .. TH}}FJLM COMMITTEE pr-esents. African· Queen· Tues. Night \ 8 and 10 50¢ in SS016 ~ .I . . ~ i BOOKTI--WFT l • • ~ · FOR BOOKloVERS : • • • • • • • • • • • .. • • .. • • • • • • • • .. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • .. Come join us at our extraordinary 50% OFF giant paperback book sale . Outstanding current and back list titles from many leading pl.lblishers. This is a sale Booklovers can't afford to miss. ' CAMPUS STORE tl • • • • . . .. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •• ~· ••••,•• •• ••• • • •-• •• • •• ••••••,•••••••••••••• o~·eeGoo••• ••o••: Now an e\'ening of Tennis for you -at reasonable cost! Sunday nights from 9 p.m. to midnight is Colleg~ Night. Bring a partner (male or female) or meet one at the Racquet Club. Only $5 per person for the whole evening, coffee included. Singles or doubles, whatever your pleasure! Starts Sunday, Feb 8th Special College Memberships Still Available • Clinics forming for beginners --CALLNOW- TRI-CITY RACQUET CLUB Route 9, latham a mile north o.f the circle 785-4311

_s trite look e sees they on are re- the art y. He of the terest . The rates to n the is usual deal ns of hows on to be to is s . . - . ·!' r r ,!i.,. ,, . . ! !\ ·r I. d' t\{' ' l ' j • t,.i,. CONCORDIENS/S, Wednesday, Jan, 28, 1976 Page5 --------~------------------------------------------·~--------------~----------------~--~----------------------~----------------- . . . . ' ' ' . . . ' ' . . ·.· . . . . .·. . . . ' . . .. . ' . ' . . ' arts Music: Grammy award predictions by DAN ROSENBAUM On February 28th, the members of NARAS (the Na tiona I Association of Rec@rding Arts and Sciences) will gather ~o bestow the Grammy awards. Grammys are given in four basic categories: Classical, Jazz, Rhythm & Blues, and Pop music. Note that - Pop, not Rock. That explains the phenomenon of Henry Mancini's winning something like 12 Grammys and the Carpenters having won about six of them, while the Rolling Stones and Neil Young have never everi been nominated. L<:>oking at this year's nominations, one would think that Bob Dylan was a talented author of liner notes, that Janis Ian was the most important recording a-rtist of the year, and that people hke Neil Young and Bruce Springsteen didn't exist. Of course, some years the best ta-lent is in @oth the worlds of rock and pop, s11ch as Stevie Wonder's masterpiece Innervisions (5 Grammys in 1973), or Simon & Garfunkel's Bridge Over Troubled Water, which took seven of the awards in 1970. (I still can't understand how Abbey Road was ,. Winter Carnivaf Wednesday, Feb. 4 I 1:30 a.m.-1:30 p.m. - Iced Tug of War Preliminaries AchHles Rink, 7 heats .per day, schedule will be posted. ' Thursday, Feb. 5 I 1:30 a.m.-1:30 p.m. - Iced Tug of War Preliminaries, Rink. Friday, Feb. 6 11:30 a.m.-1:30 p.m. - Iced Tu2 of War Preliminaries, Achilles Rink. 7:30p.m. -ICED TUG OF WAR FINALS 1, 2nd, 3rd place, Rink. 8:30 p.m. - OBSTACLE COURSE, Achilles Rink, will start immediately following Tug of War !mats. 9:00 p.m. - STUDENT-FACULTY BROOMBALL GAME Achilles Rink 10:00 p.m. - CHAMPAGNE COFFEEHOUSE Diane Scanlin, Old Chapel, 75¢ Saturday, Feb. 7 12:00 p.m. - Cross Country Race - The Outing Club will be running a cross country race for anyone interested, around the campus, starting at the Old Chapel. For entries, contact Judy at 370-6512. 1:00 p.m. - SNOW SCULPTURE JUDGING beginning at Sigma Phi . I :00 p.m. - To warm the ears and toes of everyone, hot cocoa and donuts will be served in the Old Chapel during an afternoon of snowball fights. flagpole burying contests, angels and general chaos. Get your posteriors out of the dorm or fraternity and come on down. 2:00 p.m. - CHUG A LUG CONTEST - support your contestant at Librarv Plaza. 5:00-10:00 p.m.- - CANDLELIGHT DINNER reservations in Student Activities Office, semiformal, BYOB, Hale House 7 and 9 p.m.- The Film Committee Presents Lenny. 8:00 p.m. - Basketball - UNION VS KINGS POINT, Fieldhouse 10:00 p.m.-2:00 a.m. - WINTER CARNIVAL BALL - (semi-formal. tickets in Student Activities), Ramada Inn II :00 p.m. _, AWARDS CEREMONY - President Bonner, Master of Ceremonies, Ballroom. Ramada Inn. Sunday, Feb. 8 1:00--4:00 p.m.- SKATING AND SNURFING PARTY, Hot Rum and Cider served (rent skates at Achilles Rink. if needed), Girling Center. ~ so grossly overlooked that year.) Needless to say, I dislike the Grammys. I find them too narrow and commercial. But they're the acknowledged top awards in the recording industry, and I suppose they reflect the opinions of the mainstream, which is why they're so important, and worth spending time on. Herein are my choices and my picks for probable winners in a few of the categories. Record (single) of the year: The nominees: \At Seventeen,\ Janis Ian; \Love Wi.U Keep Us Together,\ Captain & Tenille; \Lyin' Eyes,\ Eagles; \Mandy~\ Barry Manilow; \Rhinestone Cowboy,\ Glen Campbell. \Love\ should win this one. It got monster airplay this summer, and has been re-recorded in a couple of foreign languages. Also, it has an incredible hook line to it. My personal choice is \At Seventeen,\ but none of the choices excite me too much. Album of the year: Between the ' Lines, Janis Ian; Capt. Fantastic • and the Brown Dirt Cowboy, Elton John; Heart Like A Wheel, • Linda Ronstadt; One of These Nights, Eagles; Still Crazy After All These Years, Paul Simon. All bets are off on this one. I'd Continued on Page 10 Winter Carnival: photo by Arthur Miller A weekend to remember CANDLELIGHT DINNER ~og1e. fratermty team. l he faculty teams A Tickets for the ball can be are being coordinated by Bob semi-formal candlelight picked up free of charge in the Driscoll. Interested faculty or b-uffet will be held on Saturday Student Activities Office. Sign up staff should contact him. Feb. 7, in Hale House Dining early, as the capacity of the hall is All the RA 's , and fraternity Room from 5-10 p.m. It is 1 su est d th t h · hi' h h on Y I ,000 people. presidents should be working on d-g~ e .th a ~ou . Ig Igf t t e The night wouldn't be the same organizing teams and participants ~m?g (w~YO~ e Swme do yohur without the presence of the for the winter carnival events. ~ 1t~ . 11 b ). erv~ a~b t ef faculty. Please feel free to attend! One representative from each b u fe CWI e ~oast. pnme n s 0 The Winter Carnival Brochure. Jiving unit should be chosen for eeR. om~ an enJOY-$ 3 00 with further details, will be the obstacle course (sorry, hockey eservatwns at per b · h · · b' d f · . 1 pu hs ed and available m the players excluded), for the Chug-a- per.so,n, must e ~a e_ orssmgd es, mailroom on Friday, January 30. Lug Contest, and for the coup es, or parttes m tu ent · A -c·t·v·t·e 1 1 1 t 1 · Th d TEAMS Broom ball Game. A ten-man or 1 s sarmg urs ay. h. - d f' January 29. Much like intramurals, Winter t trteen-woman or SIX an JVe WINTER C Carnival competitions will be co-ed team must be chosen from ARNIVAL h 1· · - f T SEMIFORMAL BALL between fraternity teams and eac tvmg um_t or the Iced u~ Adorned with plush red carpets and gold chandeliers, the Ramada Inn ballroom should provide an excellent atmosphere for the Winter Carnival Semiformal Ball. The \Great Estate,\ a Vegas style show band, will perform music from disco to ballad, jazz to dorm teams with the added of War. A hst of contestants attraction of faculty .members if names for each team must be they dare. Students living off- S'Ub_m_t~ted _to the Student campus may add on to a dorm or Acttvlltes off1ce by 3:00 p.m. on Continued on Pa~e II TRI-CITY RACQUET CLUB Route 9, Latham a mile north of the circle 785-4311 :••••••••••••••••••c•••••••••••••e•e•••••••••••••••e•••••••• • • • COLLEGE NIGHT! 374-5921 GEORGE'S- MUSIC STORE Student Discou~ts 508 State St. Schenectady THE FILM COMMITTEE presents African Queen Tues. Night 8 and 10 50¢ in SS016 , • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • BOOKTI-roFT FOR BOOKlDVERS Come join us at our extraordinary 50% OFF giant paperback book sale. Outstanding current and back list titles from many leading publishers. This is a sale Booklovers can't afford to miss. CAMPUS STORE • • • . • • • • ••••••••••••••••••o••••••••o••••••••••••••••oo•&~co•••••o••= Now an evening of Tennis for you - at reasonable cost! Sunday nights from 9 p.m. to midnight is College Night. Bring a partner (male or female) or meet one at the Racquet Club. Only $5 per person for the whole evening, coffee included. Singles or doubles, whatever your pleasure! Starts Sunday, Feb 8th Special College Memberships Still Available ' Clinics forming for beginners --CALLNOW- TRI-CITY RACQUET CLUB Route 9, Latham a mile north o.f the circle 785-4311

vtewpot:tlt tax trip-up The Tax Committee is not sure how much money it has to spend on Student Activities, so it overbudgets by $40,000. Oh well, so it goes. - Major cuts are proposed to bring the figure down and help balance the books. It looks fine on paper, just a slip-up easily corrected. We even hear the argument that there wasn't enough money to begin with, and the cuts are more or less manditory. Unfortunately what looks fine ort paper does not. look so good when put to use. \Severe cuts are being made which will· greatly· hamper major activities. Why didn't someone on the Student Tax Committee realize that an increase in the Student Activities Fee was necessary earlier? That committee is responsible for proposing increases in Student Tax; it was their job to monitor th.e rate of inflation and the number of clubs they were going to fund. If the Tax Committee is incapable of keeping· track of such things perhaps a refresher course in Eco lO and Management is· in order The blame for this horrible error can only fall in one place. David Eilbott, R.B. Thltu, Arnie Hiller, Paul Boyud, and Larry Fein are responsible for knowing how the Student Tax Budget operates. David Deacon, Supervisor of Accounting, doesn't know the mechanics of it, and couldn't care less. Dale Timberlake, Treasurer of the College, wants nothing to do with the matter, and rightly so. The fact is that it is our money and we are responsible for handling it. The Student Tax Committee represents us in this matter and are accountable to us. If you want this accountability to mean something, come to the Tax Committee's open meeting on Monday Feb. 2 at 10 p.m. in Fox Lounge and speak your mind! MRA ·priorities In the January 14th Concordy exclusive, President Bonner commented that union programs are hampered by the lack of facilities and limited budget. The possibility of a very substantial tuition increase and the presently acknowledged lack in school funds are signs of the grey economic situation at Union. When the need for funds is imperative, it seems only logical that Union should turn to the alumni for support. We have always received plentiful sums of money from Union alumni, and we are not questioning their generosity or their loyalty. What can and should be questioned are their priorities. Union lacks the facilities and curriculum for an Arts Department which upon its completion would draw a greater diversity of people to its student body and w011ld allow Union to justifiably ca11 itself a liberal \arts\ college. Union is also in great need of a more CL.nplete library. Any student who has utilized the library would agree that it is far from adequate. However. in light of the needs. of Union College, President Bonner had told Concordy reporters in a personal interview that there have been discussions about the existing need of a sports complex which would supplement the old gym, the Fieldhouse, and the new Achilles Rink. Money for such plans would probably come from the contributions made by Union alumni; President Bonner stated, \the need is there.\ When a school has just built a two-million-dollar ice rink, yet lacks an adequate Arts Department and library, what \need\ should be of primary importance? President Bonner added that alumni want to contribute money for the remodeling of the front of the school (in front of the Skeller and Security office). \This area is Union's 'front door' where prospective students get their first impressions.\ It cannot be argued that prospective students would be impressed by a remodelled entrance, but it is doubtful that it would influence them in making their decision about Union. The quality of a co11ege's library and Arts Department would probably be more important factors involved in selecting a school. Alumni moneys are essential to the financial stability of Union. College. Our Athletic departments and College grounds are assets of which we are proud, but in such times of financial strain, academic advancement should be the area into which a1umni monies ought to flow. AHR Opinior;1: - / Camp Union; haven fof the hefty by PETER SOBOL Apparently, Union College is going to be inhabited this summer by many . persons desiring· to lose lbs. Why anyone who .seriously intended to part with much - of .()neself would believe that- the parting would be easier on a \multi.-million dollar c.ollege campus\ is not immediately clear. Would a regular one~million dollar campus do? If not, what does that extra few thousand bless a campus with that enables people to so easily. reapportion themselves? Let us examine our · campus, assuming that, students' stereos apart, the place is worth a million and change, What· faciiities do we have at hand 'to oblige the obese? The first natural answer is our food service, which would reduee· even a teflon .. Jined stomach,· had it no recourse to outside nourishment, to starvation. No, this cannot be the means by which these large persons intend to become small p~rsons. There must be less painful pr.ocesses oil .. the campus. Of !!Ourse there are the gym, and the Fieldhouse, and \beautiful Achililes Rink\ but. these are all dull, classical approache!l to 'the compression .of the waistline. The folks who thought this whole thing up must have something new _up · their sleeve. Perhaps the patients will be required to carry cement blocks and lumber· for the fellows ·building the Pub (who will ever get used to calling it Dutch Ho1Jow?). Or perhaps th~y will be asked to hold up /the Nott Memorial while the ivy is removed. They might be asked to tou.r the perimeter of the campus and attempt to straighten all the bent bars in the fence. Acutally none of these ideas really makes sense. The true objective· of ·attracting large persons to a 'college campus' can only be to entice these persons to enroll in the fall. Aha! Not only could they then be coerced into playing varsity football, but they would all become thin in no time ' flat. Make them take four lab courses a term! Make them live in Webster, and put ·aU their friends on fourth floors all . around the campus. If that doesn't thin you nothing will. - But they cari't .receive special treatment in every area. The heat in their rooms will either fry them or freeze them, just like in every room, which helps keep us all slim. They will have Saga ,meal- tickets, or they will go to the Jolly Tiger, which is like dyii1g by the guillotine rather than the gallows. They cart also attend fraternity band parties; the only place where cubic cl()sest-:packing of humans is achieved. And they can· buy textbooks in the Bookstore at the bl;!ginning of term, Which is &lways a str:enuous business. With luck, these people wHi be so pleased with their lipid loss that they will endeavor to return . to Union each year. Is this the future .of the small multi-million dollar campus liberal arts college in America? Only time will tell. What's in a name? . The recently concluded Womens' Week brings to mind one of the .less talked-about tenets of the feminist doctrine. I refer to the attempt to revise the English language so as to purge it of'sexism'. The proponents of this view assert that certain words serve to preseve a system of things which is inherently prejudicial to , women. They propose several revisions to the language that will 'remedy' this situation. These revisions frequently involve, removal of the letters. \man\ or \men\ from certain words, to be replaced by \person.\ Some of these revisions have already achieved a sort of legitilllacy: \chairperson\ for instance. · It seems to me that this is one of the silliest endeavors ever undertaken in the history of human. (huperoson?) experience. For the altering of a label can never alter the contents of the jar. If people choose to hold biased · views toward by CHRIS O'CONNOR women, they will do so regardless of whether they cali them women or p~ople. A chairman will always be \one who presides.\ Whether masculinity, is included in the definition will vary with the individual using the .word .. In· addition to its futility, there is a great deal of comedy involved in · this attempt at linguistic legerdemain. One suggestion, that appeared in a recent MS magazine, proposed use of the suffix \peep\ in place of \man\. Chairman thus would become \chairpeep\. The author of this at least novel idea apparently did not foresee any trouble with the revised form of \manhole\ which this system would mandate. Those - who - propose these changes in words· not only involve themselves in an r effort likely to produce few tangible results, but generate som~__gf ~l!e most awkward and nonsensical English ' expressions authored. After all, could you be inspired by a song titled \Stout-Hearted People?'' And could any religion base itself on the Ten Com persontnents? This silliness. has now mani\fested itself in the altering by the Womens' Caucms of. the College motto on some of their W omens' Week literature. What once read \Nous devenons tous freres sous les lois de Minerl!e\ . has become \we all are one under the laws of Minerva.\ That students at Union should develop a close relationship with each other through the academic experience of Union is indeed \1l noble sentiment. That, on the other hand, the use of the word \brothers\ in the motto is intended to exclude women or represents- a bias toward women is nothing more than a paranoid and picayune attention to details which. serves to detract from the . many legitimate complaints voiced by the Women's Caucus. ..

CONCORDIENS!S ·Page 6 ' • ,: ' • ' • • l : ' • ' • ' .. • . ' •.• \ . ·, ••• · • ' .. . . ' t .. • ' ,• • • • ' • ' • • : • • ' • ' • ~ • • ; ) viewpoint tax trip-up The Tax Committee is not sure how much money it has to spend on Student Activities, so it overbudgets by $40,000. Oh well, so it goes. Major cuts are proposed to bring the figure down and help balance the books. It looks fine on paper, just a slip-up easily corrected. We even hear th.e argument that there wasn't enough money to begin with, and the cuts are more or less manditory. Unfortunately what looks fine on paper does not look so good when put to use. Severe cuts are being made which will greatly hamper major activities. Why didn't someone on the Student Tax Committee realize that an increase in the Student Activities Fee was necessary earlier? That committee is responsible for proposing increases in Student Tax; it was their job to monitor the rate of inflation and the number of clubs they were going to fund. If the Tax Committee is incapable of keeping· track of such things perhaps a refresher course in Eco 10 and Management is in order The blame for this horrible error can only fall in one place. David Eilbott, R.B. Thau, Arnie Hiller, Paul Boyud, and Larry Fein are responsible for knowing how the Student Tax Budget operates. David Deacon, Supervisor of Accounting, doesn't know the mechanics of it, and couldn't care less. Dale Timberlake, Treasurer of the College, wants nothing to do with the matter, and rightly so. The fact is that it is our money and we are responsible for handling it. The Student Tax Committee represents us in this matter and are accountable to us. If you want this accountability to mean something, come to the Tax Committee's open meeting on Monday Feb. 2 at 10 p.m. in Fox Lounge and speak your mind! MRA priorities In the January 14th Concordy exclusive, President Bonner commented that Union programs are hampered by the lack of facilities and limited budget. The possibility of a very substantial tuition increase and the presently acknowledged lack in school funds are signs of the grey economic situation at Union. When the need for funds is imperative, it seems only logical that Union should turn to the alumni for support. We have always received plentiful sums of money from Union alumni, and we are not questioning their generosity or their loyalty. What can and should be questioned are their priorities. Union lacks the facilities and curriculum for an Arts Department which upon its completion wouM draw a greater diversity of people to its student body and woa1ld allow Union to justifiably call itself a liberal \arts\ college. Union is also in great need of a more CG.nplete library. Any student who has utilized the library would agree that it is far from adequate. However, in light of the needs of Union College, President Bonner had told Concordy reporters in a personal interview that there have been discussions about the existing need of a sports complex which would supplement the old gym, the Fieldhouse, and the new Achilles Rink. Money for such plans would probably come from the contributions made by Union alumni: President Bonner stated, '\the need is there.\ When a school has just built a two-million-dollar ice rink, yet lacks an adequate Arts Department and library, what ••need\ should be of primary importance? President Bonner added that alumni want to contribute money for the remodeling of the front of the school (in front of the Skeller and Security office). \This area is Union's •front door' where prospective students get their first impressions.\ It cannot be argued that prospective students would be impressed by a remodelled entrance, but it is doubtful that it would influence them in making their decision about Union. The quality of a college's library and Arts Department would probably be more important factors involved in selecting a school. Alumni moneys are essential to the financial stability of Union College. Our Athletic departments and College grounds are assets of which we are proud, but in such times of financial strain, academic advancement should be the area into which alumni monies ought to flow. AHR Opiniotl: Camp Union: haven for the hefty by PETER SOBOL AppareHtly, Union College is going to be inhabited this summer by many . persons desiring to lose lbs. Why anyone who seriously intended to part with much of oneself would believe that the parting would be easier on a \multi-mHlion dollar college campus\ is not immediately clear. Would a regular one-million dollar campus do? If not, what does that extra few thousand bless a campus with that enables people to so easily reapportion themselves? Let us examine our campus, assuming that, students' stereos apart, the place is worth a million and change. What· facilities do we have at hand to oblige the obese? The first natural answer is our food service, which would reduce even a teflon-lined stomach, had it no recourse to outside nourishment. to starvation. No, this cannot be the means by which these large persons intend to become s~nall p~rsons. There must be less painful processes on the campus. Of course there ate the gym, and the Fieldhouse, and \beautiful Achi1Hes Rink\ but these are all dull, classical approache~ to the compression of the waistline. 1he folks who thought this whole thing up must have something new up their sleeve. Perhaps the patients will be required to carry cement blocks and ll!lmber for the feHows building the Pub (who will ever get used to calling it Dutch Hollow?). Or perhaps they will be asked to hold up the Nott Memorial while the ivy is removed. They might be asked to tour the perimeter of the campus and attempt to straighten all the bent bars in the fence. Acutally none of these ideas really makes sense. The true objective of attracting large persons to a 'college campus' can only be to entice these persons to enroll in the fall. Aha! Not only could they then be coerced into playing varsity football, but they would all become thin in no time flat. Make them take four lab courses a term! Make them live in Webster, and put all their friends on fourth floors all around the campus. If that doesn't thin you nothing will. But they can't receive special treatment in every area. The heat in their rooms will either fry them or freeze them, just like in every room, which helps keep us all slim. They will have Saga .meal tickets, or they will go to the Jolly Tiger, which is like dying by the guillotine rather than the gallows. They can also attend fraternity band parties; the only place where cubic closest-packing of humans is achieved. And they can buy textbooks in the Bookstore at the beginning of term, which is always a strenuous business. With luck, these people will be so pleased with their lipid loss that they will endeavor to return to Union each year. Is this the future of the small multi-million dollar campus liberal arts college in America? Only time will telL What's in a name? The recer:ttlv concluded Womens' Week brings to mind one of the less talked-about tenets of the feminist doctrine. I refer to the attempt to revise the English language so as to purge it of 'sexism'. The proponents of this view assert tha-t certain words serve to preseve a system of things which is inherently prejudicial to . women. They propose several revisions to the language that will 'remedy' this situation. These revisions frequently involve. removal of the letters. \man\ or \men\ from certain words, to be replaced by \person.\ Some of these revisions have already achieved a sort of legitimacy: \chairperson\ for instance. It seems to me that this is one of the silliest endeavors ever undertaken in the history of human (huperoson?) experience. For the altering of a label can never alter the contc:nts of the jar. If people choose to hold biased views toward by CHRIS O'CONNOR women, they will do so regardless of whether they call them women or p~ople. A chairman will always be \one who presides.\ Whether masculinity is included in the definition will vary with the individual using the word. In addition to its futility, there is a great deal of comedy involved in this attempt at linguistic legerdemain. One suggestion, that appeared in a recent MS magazine, proposed use of the suffix \peep\ in place of \man\. Chairman thus would become \chairpeep\. The author of this at least novel idea apparently did not foresee any trouble with the revised form of \manhole\ which this system would mandate. Those - who - propose these changes in words not only involve themselves in an . effort likely to produce few tangible results, but generate some of the most awkward and nonsensical English expressions authored. E .......... . ' : :· - -:.__ -·. ..-. f • •. -.\ • :. ' > • \ ::·· •• • ::.. • L TTERS . 4~1¢r{lst~d in gen¢ral~ . ·to Wo. ·m\_·· ...•.•. ·.n··_ .. 's·· . w· :e·e'k c~fu~ .to the next weekly .. m~etmg of the Wowan~s . Cattcu$. · Five wom;en ·· .Editors-Cc>neQrdiehsis:- showed u.p, three of whom· I would Jike to ·make a were regular members . and · few ·comments concerning ·one who was a visitor.,•. No the recent·,\W<!iltna:n's Week · m.en weYe .. prest?nt. After here ... a.t,:-:Q,J1lion., ·As ·a al1.thtl tim~and·.•encrgy;p:ut Jn~mber .cQf ,flbe Women's · intp this educational effort, After all. could you be inspired by a song titled \Stout-Hearted People?\ And could any religion base itself on the Ten Compersonments? This silliness has now manifested itself in the altering by the Womens' Caucus of the College motto on some of their Womens' Week literature. What once read \N_ous devenons tous freres sous les lois de Minerve\ has become \we all are one under the laws of Minerva.\ That students at Union should develop a close relationship with each other through the academic experience of Union is indeed a noble sentiment. That, on the other hand, the use of the word \brothers\ in the motto is intended to exclude women or represents- a bias toward women is nothing more than a paranoid and picayune attention to details which serves to detract from the many legitimate complaints voiced by the Women's Caucus. ·' .. -. career ·and a family was attended by no tnore than thirty !)tudent!\, (a &e~t2US · figure),: . with . stat'f and faoul(y outn~.mb~ring . them, Yet the maj~rity, <of strtdEm:ts will ha've to face .. this .. very )real ' quest!o!l m:: .. · and o-rgan;izer of. one of the this lack of tlilS!'fJJ,iSe has .·· : .. · the next few years; I do not expect evetyBtte· to 'be ·~radical\ or ~idealistic,~' ·but I. · d& _· exp~<:f.dctMlege·., sttidents io· Be moie :·far;;.' · · ·Sighted ·i1t 'tll~r 'ideal~·· tlntf goails ·· ··.tat\ l.ffili}' <:.·fu,tur--e: Cliooslng· to : .att~nti Game Nfglit''it$t~d ·of'S'onn~thing w1i1ch ¢0utd·be of gt~at . .: evenings, I was happy to made me feel angry and has · · ,:.,gce that ·most of the dashed aU s:parks of activities drew at least a optimism:. Jt is more than few interested students. just inter.estin8 to .djseoyen: ·* :. . '· ·- Although I- knew that some that an atmosphere· which. classes. ·were tef!uired .. to is. -cortside-red somewh~t atterr&:, · certain event-s. I. intelligent. . <Jan f!tilduce began· t-o feel a touch of such·· apa-thy towar<ls a··· · opthnism concerning •··1ih~ suhj.ec.t ~(Wo-men)• ;Whi(.!;b<is , interest of the College of vital ·con¢etn: .. t.Q ev.eey .. · community -in. the petson',s ,, ·l~.t:e, .. ,. b{):!ll\ing -. t- belp 'lin:d 'i!nco11'ta.-gerntint · tb yoilt · 5 ~ftittffe(:4 'is t<f · ' me ~;::;~j~~em~r!i. short~· ·· ' · EUz.tbWi: Dftln61} •17 • < -~,_:-<:?.><\-:-\··.. ... '.- '~\ '· \--;:_:~~£ :.;·.·:~--- .''•: ';~ . . .-·. ' '· . ·.;,-, ~ ,, ·not· ... . J ,, ·': Woman•s tole arid place. back, 1 now can··see that· \-\'*bCO·····g'···'JW'a;pfliiill''.'d-' ·:,, ... ,. · which is in sueh a state of th\\1 .-~>tudentsc Pill tf;l;i:s If'.:_:· > ·_ ;·, .,;;;,;~~~, .~.,fir.;., '. ;, flux in today•s society. At c~m.pus w'ere · ·;Ji<O:o,rJ.y Editot% Conc~t(ften$1$:; · .!::every activity .efthe. week._ t~presented at man:}t,:events· / · · ·· · W1lo·rs :it't-0' sayc·w.h1tf Union .. ·Y/.@c; \' . . < th:.e~s.~ ··· .zyt Warn-en's · Wee){. lR0t,.J ·•CoJ1~~;.:'!&~10'·'~tl~t11li' · :;:;.~t~re-ste~ , J!!;~~!)1~l]\·'klJ~'.'';<i~9U.~~i~:P,D>,' · .·· · .. ·. · ! ( r I r fl ~~ ·• '' .. ' •·. C\ \ ~-·

'J 0 .. . :p1nron: / Throating: running the deadly treadmill _by JACR PITNEY Almost every Union student works hard at his studies, but some make the rest of us look like slackers. The \throats as they are known, spend all their waking, h,ours in pursuit of high grades. What makes them do it? Not all of them .are pre.-rneds living in fear. of a final in Organic Chemistry. ·In many cases, the reasons for throating have- nothing to do with professional aspirations. Instead, it's often a matter ofinsecurityand the need for approval. - College students frequently feel lonely. and out of place. Their surroundings are imperso11al and their frien(lships are tentative. Many need a signal that another human being approves of them in Bicentennial: some way. And-what signal is tess ambiguous than a grade? If a professor gives you an A, you ~n be certain that at least one person lik;es something you've done. Yet the satisfaction associated with this kind of achievement is short-;Jived; the student is soon faced with new ceurses a.nd new professors. Therefore, you start to spend 'long hours in the lab or the library, hoping to keep up the good work:, U these efforts prove fruitless, you taper off and just try to get by. But if you do succeed, you continue to put a lot of effort into your~studies. · Therein lies the problem. The more you achi~ve, the more your peers and professors expect of you. Because you feel · you need their approval, you work stjll T·he Scent of history by JACK PITNEY a hasty retreat. Believing it necessary to honor· In this Bicentennial year, the the American spirit, Concordy is citizens of Poub~lle are working prom] to present this exclusive hard to commemorate their report on one of this country's heritage. As a class project, fifth lesser•known landmarks. grade students in the local At dawri, they seem like elementary school r.ecently monoliths. · Their' hulking forms climbed anto a garbage trUck, obscure the r\lst-red glow of the doused themselves with olive oil, rising sun. Sodn, the _au~ of and ''&an·g -·~My-'Cotliltry 'Tis of Stonehenge vanishes and~ the Thee.'' · morning light )'eveals the. nature The main event of Poubelle's Qf these forms. They are the celebration will be the July 4th garbage piles of ~he Poubelle, opening of the .National Museum Massachusetts, Sanitary Landfill. of .. Garbage. According to curator Long known as ''the Mother of Otto Quaalude, the Museum will Dumps,\ the Poubelle site is rich be the best of its kind. in · historical interest: It was \Our Rancid Lettuce wing is founded by John Winthrop in absolutely first-rate. And our 1633 to serve as a \repositorye for cont~tnporary ·garbage section used. hymnals and unfriendlye contains some priceless artifacts, Indians.\ Its proudest moment · such as Masqn -R:eese's birth · came during the Revolution. .In certifieate and the first three reels . September of 1778, General of Billy Jack.'' Benjamin Flush, outguqned and Quaalude said that the museum outmaneuvered by the British, had invited the President to the camped his Massachusetts~. opening, but withdrew the Irregulars at the landfill for five invitation at the request of .. the days. Then, arme(l with nothing Secret :Service. ''It was felt that but a very peculiar odor, they the presence of so marty banana forced 5000 vomiti!lg Britons into peels might prove.a hazard to Mr. Ford,\ he.said, harder. Eventually, you reach the peak of your capacities; your cume gets as high as your natural abilities allow, So each term, you have to doyour absolute best just to maintain your standing in the class. A student in this situation has nowhere-to-go -but-down. It's -no wonder, then, that honor students '~ \ . -:-~~ ' .. are parucu1ar1y susceptible to nervous breakdowns. For them, college is neither a stepping-shme ·nor a citadel, but a deadly treadmill. union C d college oncor iensis EDITORS-IN•CHIEF ................................... ,.Mike Affinito. David Moskowiti CULTURE .......................................................... Sue Finkelstein, Diane Nelson 1\IFWS-FF . .(Tl'R FS 1\udre) R nth,child. Sue Ora per. Chris O'Connor S.PORTS ........................................................ Charlie Flanagan, John Busterud. Allyne Price LAYOUT. .............•......................................................................... Lance Travis CLASSIFIED PAGE ....................................................................... Todd Miller COPY .......................................... -................................................... Phil Alcabes ART ...................................................................... .' ......................... Lester Weiss CALENDAR ................................................................................ Sheryl Farber BUSINESS MANAGER .......................................................... Rhonda Kaplan SUBSCRIPTIONS ......................................................................... Shelley Gold NATIONAL ADS ............................................................................ Steve Keily _CQNTRIBUTING EDITOR ............................................................ Jack Pitney _CI~CULATI<?N ...... ' .................................. Joe Cappuccio PHOTOGRAPHY ........................... Mike Marks, Tom Welles. Don Hamer. u, Art Miller, Rudy Lu, Dave Grossman. Greg Cohen, Mike Roiundi. Kevi~ Sch;uy Ellen Radack, Les Trachtman. Tony Romanazzi. Rob Mondschein STAFF THlS ISSUE., ................. ·.· ................. Kelley Newton, Bill Peck, Barbara Shapiro •. Cheryl Tanke!. R B Thau. Joe Cappuccio, Ed Menke, Peter SoboL Dan Rosenbaum. Arnie Hiller~ Fern Flomenhaft. Neal A. Schwart7, Bill Henson. Jon Scheer, BiUPiaus. Hope- Fabian · CONCORDIENSIS is published every Wednesday a.y the student body of Cnion Co.lleg~~ Old Gym Hall, Schenectady, N.Y.; to which Postal Forms 3579 are directed. Publieations Office: The Jewish World Publitations, 4l6 Smitll St., Schenectady, N.Y. 12305 (370..5483) •. Entered in the Schenectady Post Office as Seco!ld aass Matter. Subscription Rate 35 cents per copy. $8.00 a year delivered any'Were in'tbe United States. l

sdaY..!_:!g.n. 28~ 19?6 -:-:. ,-!' ·. . : . ' . . . . ·. ' . . Page 7 ... I • i I . '1 ~ Throating: running the deadly treadmill ... ~ . ';:-: 'l ' ' ~- ~· r by JACK PITNEY Almost every Union. student works hard at his studies, but some make the rest of us look like slackers. The \throats as they are known, spend all their waking hours in pursuit of high grades. What makes them do it? Not aU of them are pre-meds living in fear of a final in Organic Chemistry. In many cases, the reasons for throating have· nothing to do with professional aspirations. Instead, it's often a matter ofinsecurityand the need for approvaL College students frequently feel lonely and out of place. Their surroundings are impersonal and their friendships are tentative. Many need a signal that another human being approves ·Of them in Bicentennial: some way. And what signal is less ambiguous than a grade? If a professor gives yolil an A, you can be certain that at least one person likes something you've done. Yet the satisfaction associated with this kind of achievement is short-lived; the student is soon faced with new courses and new professors. Therefore, you start to spend long hours in the lab or the library, hoping to keep up the good work. If these efforts prove fruitless, you taper off and just try to get by. But if you do succeed, you continue to put a lot of effort into your studies. Therein lies the problem. The more you achieve, the more your peers and professors expect of you. Because you feel you need their approval, you work still The scent of history by JACK PITNEY Believing it necessary to honor the American spirit, Concordy is prou<J to present this exclusive report on one of this country's lesser-known landmarks. At dawn, they seem like monoliths. Their hulking forms obscure the rust-red glow of the rising sun. Soon, the aura of Stonehenge vanishes and the morning light reveals the nature of these forms. They are the garbage piles of the Poubelle, Massachusetts, Sanitary Landfill. Long known as \the Mother of Dumps,\ the Poubelle site is rich in historical interest. It was founded by John Winthrop in 1633 to serve as a \repositorye for used hymnals and unfriendlye Indians.\ Its proudest moment came during the Revolution. In September of 1778, General Benjamin Flush, outgunned and outmaneuvered by the British, camped his Massachusetts Irregulars at the landfill for five days. Then, armed with nothing but a very peculiar odor, they forced 5000 vomiting Britons into a hasty retreat. In this Bicentennial year, the citizensof Po~belle are wO\rking hard to commemorate their heritage. As a class project, fifth grade students in the local elementary school recently climbed onto a garbage truck, doused themselves with olive oil, and sang \My Country 'Tis of Thee.\ The main event of Poubelle's celebration will be the July 4th opening of the National Museum of Garbage. According to curator Otto Quaalude, the Museum will be the best of its kind. \Our Rancid Lettuce wing is absolutely first-rate. And our contemporary garbage section contains some priceless artifacts, · such as Mason Reese's birth certificate and the first three reels of Billy Jack.\ Quaalude said that the museum had invited the President to the opening, but withdrew the invitation at the request of the Secret Service. \It was felt that the presence of so many banana peels might prove a hazard to Mr. Ford,\ he said. harder. Eventually, you reach the peak of your capacities; your cume gets as high as your natural abilities allow. So each term, you have to do your absolute best just The reSponsibility has fallen , case of WRUC, a licensed F.M. trustees to piedge their fullest upon the WRUC executive stereo ta<l.io station, a campus sup:port to the expansion of • board, fl:ve students, four juniors limited A.M. ·station, and a WRUC. It can aid every aspect and a sophomo,re, who must recording studio. WRtJC of campus life. Admittedly, direct hours of their extra~ members, 135 strong, can, in WRUC is not the \top of the • curricular time into the day to . · addition, be found in the crop'' when it -comes to licen~ed • day operation of the >fac.ility. c' optrratio11 of many other radio, but we have advanGed a These five, along with those who organizations on dampus. · great deal from the station of a . . hold one of the twenty-odd I.feel that· Mr. Sobol's basic few years ·ago, and aU those.· , appointed positions.. attempt_ to pr~~ise is completely ¥f!:C~lled involved at WRUC certainly still, , · formulate specific goals· at the for, and l feel that he has no have· a large amount to learn station. · argument to refer to the WR UC about achieving a tru·Iy -effective Referred to as \i.inco.ncerned staff as ''unconcerned.\ Cln the 'lHl'd ~'well rounded\ radio station. egonianiacs\' by f>e~t' S0bot. all other hand, perhaps )ot;ne ·of . .'We .. must ·receive gnidance~ - of tlwst!! invo1vtid with WRUC those involved arf.\ 1Qqking to edticisrti, .and commentsirotn the pr<ibahly CO'tQ.P:nse. the most gtatify their owll, .ego' in' some. . Urtil}rt couununity, ·fot- ' '' dev~ted ,grqup .. of Vnio,p, $tn!llents small way, fot. how el~~ could , . . C'''certainiY is your station, found oi:l. .cru;npu.s, ,an.d,;(,'*e mos.t, one justify the many hQtits ... spent · ~B'~t .xt?u .have the .... ability .. to , , corice.rned, Ev1;iry station member oiL radio ·business; rather than.· . · Initiate the change. tt is p~t}t~ps:f.,;:' \ plays an essential Ratt in the wi-thdi textbook in· the lib~ry1 I:· the most important moment in •';' intricate fttnctitJ;rt!j~gj; . .a.nd think yatt 1 ll find tb::H a majority :W·:RlJCs 55 year histti>ty,now · re<:ei'Ves . nothi'!.}g frt:(')re thtt:~ . the of pe6ple seek justificatj.on f(}r t\ ·· ·that a ro~thousan'd watt. satisfactimr· ttraf\~e is ptotfttcihg : ttt¢ii'. a.ctions irt terms of frei:i4ime · ·· application is on file ·with th.~ .· • the -·'best of w'hich he is capable, . a es, otttside . t.~f C<rurs~ tpcrc. This is not an opportunity c due to the· ·' n®S, and._ o \¥6t:~· .l do, however; ·· '~ i!e'Wtlllightly let pass· by,artd afi ,, •· Iean}:s a .gie~.t: . ·~~~pr.(;}cess. 4 . it ~s far .lts tQ · ·*fit)ortunity f0t ·.you to ;~~erate,, ~ The kniJWliid~e· attain~d. l$: not · refeY:'· a.r·WW<: M an . 1 ~9:rrtl}::feedbackto us. ,.. · that of has~c t~~pry !Q>t .~e. .t(tQ.st egom~.niac. , ... .. . . . .. , · ¢¢tt'ully, ' part. butpumarlly the: ptac(ical, • J f~Uftaf tqe response to' the · · Forselius .. in terms .o:&-acq~Ir~ng the ability MW·.''~UC (f.M,)\ at U.nion .. WRU¢ President artd to w<Jrk. w~th ~,p¢9.ple wltQ.J~Ptli!~~ .lf.~~ . been, ,gcio~l. hut not .• ~~j)iger · · • c~:mfliqtiug.,:Vle}~oi.tt~.s, a~ .~~·· .~s phe.norn~nal,· 1t. ;is,, c:enainl)L.time . , , .. , s1mih!!.r , P~'t:S·· ,, · .. Pl;l:W U1e for ·c the st,u(;fents :and .. ~ac;:ulty ~ ~gl~(~:~!~i:, .. ;,~~;;,~;t~·it~·j~;;;~;<f~t~'\ik . tratio~.n~t·L ... .:~::·;;;~:.c~r::,,:§~; to maintai~ your standing in the class. A student in this situation has nowhere to go but down. It's no wonder, then, that honor students are parucuJarly susceptible to nervol!ls breakdowns. For them, college is neither a stepping-stone ·nor a citadel, but a deadly treadmill. umon C d• . college oncor teOSIS FDITORS-1'\-C'HlH Cl'LTl'RE .......... . :\FWS-Ff . .(Tl\RFS .. SPORTS .... \1tkc 1\tftnl!<>. [)a\ td \1t\k''\ It/ Sue Fmkclqein. D1ane '\eJ,on ·\udrc~ Rnth,child. Su~ Dr.!pt'r. Chri' O'Connor . Char he l'lanagan. Jnhn Ru,terud . LAYOl~ ............................ . All\nc Pnee I a nee Tra\\ . ..... Todd 'v111le1 Phil ·\kahe' Le,ter Weis- . .Shervl Farher CLASSIFIED PAGE ..... COPY ART ................... . CALENDAR ...... . Rl 1 SI~FSS MA:\'AGFR Sl 1 RSCRIPTIO:-;S ...... . NATIO\TAL ADS ...... . CO\iTRIBl 1 TI\'G FDJTOR . CIRCI'LAT10\' ... PHOTOGRAPHY ...... . Rhonda Kaplan .Shelley G<>ld .Steve Kelh .Jack Pitne\ . Joe Cappuccw ... Mike Marh. Tom Welle'. D0n HameL m. Art Miller, Rudy Lu. Da'e Cimssman. Gre!! Cohen. Mike Rotund•. Ke\ln Schar' Ellen Radack. Le' Trachtman. Tnm R,>mana?ll. R 0h Mnnd>chetn STAfF THIS ISStiF. ... . . . . . . . . . . . . . .......... Kelle\ :'\Iewton. Bill Peck. Rarharu Shap1rn. Chen! Tanke!. RB Thau, Jne Cappuccin. Fd \Ienke . Peter Sohol. Dan R<'>enhaum. 1\rnieHiller. Fern FJ,,menhaft. \'eal A. Schwart7. Rill Hemt>n . .Jt>n Scheer. Bill Piau;, Hope Fahtan CONCORDJENSIS is published ever:y Wednesday by the student body of Onion College, Old Gym Hall, Schenectady, N.Y.; to which Postal Forms 357CJ are directed. Publications Office: The Jewish World Publitations, 416 Smith St., Schenectady, N.Y. 12305 (370-54~3). Entered in the Schenectady Post Office as Seco!Jd Oass Mat1er. Subscription Rate 35 cents per copy. S8.00 a year delivered any~eFe in·t~e United States.

Page8 '• Thurs., January 29 Fashion and Costume Interpretation and Production. The second in a series of six classes will cover Practical Sewing Techniques. Classes given at 7:30 in the Nott Memorial Theater by Susanne J. Frisch, Union's new costume designer and weaver. Any questions, call 370-6128 fcentrex). Cabaret: Cathy Agnello and· Laird Scranton .. Plus Gary Levy and Gary Levine, - Host and Comedy Team. Shows at 9:00 and 11:00. Tickets on sale at 8:00 in Carnegie Hall. Ingmar Bergman's Passion of Anna. Sponsored by the Skidmore College English Department, Ladd Hall, Room 307. Skidmore College. Admission is 50¢. The Skidmore ballet, under the direction of Melissa Hayden will present their bicentennial concert.\Stars and Stripes\ Saratoga Junior High West Circular Street Saratoga Springs. 8:00. For more information call 584-5000. Lively Lucy's Coffeehouse presents: Tom Mitchell, country thunderfunk. Admission is 50¢. Skidmore Hall Basement. Coffeehouse: Poor Howard. Mother's Wine Emporium RPI 8:30p.m. \Dr. Strangelove\ RPI Chapel and Cultural Center, 2125 Burdett Ave., Admission is 75¢. Gerl•• Greer born 1939 . CONCORDIENSIS, Wednesday, Jan. 28, 1976 \ - . ·F • Poor Howard, 8:30 p.m. fl., Mother's Wine Emporium, RPI. Winter Spotts Festival. · 3 0 Estherville, Iowa until Feb. 2. J afl Uary· . ·. American Legion Ground Hog Supper Whitewater, Chinese -New Year's Party. In.~ Kansas. (population 550) Strauss Lounge from 7:30 until Pancakes and sausage will be 12:00 midnight. Chinese served. delicacies, games, slides, music, displays. Admission is free and everyone is welcome. At 8:00 in SS016 John Ford's film She Wore a Yellow Ribbon, will be shown. Admission is free. Tbt! Three Musketeers, p.resented by · the Film Committee, at 10:00 in SS0l6. Admission is $1.00. Poor Howard, 8:30, Mother's Wine Emporium. RPI. Franklin D. Roosevelt born 1882. Tom Akstens, contemporary, traditional folk, 8:30, Union College Coffeehouse, Old ChapeL Jean Redpath, music of Scotland, British Isles, 8:30, Caffe Lena. Saratoga Springs. Reservations: 584-9789. Saturday, January 31 Varsity Swimming Union vs. Hobart at 2:30 in the Alumni Gym Pool. The Three Musketeers will be shown at 7, 9, and 11:00 by the Film Committee in the usual place. $1.00 Admission. Flying Dutchmen skate against Brockport at 8:00, in Achilles Rink. · Husdon Valley Community College presents Orleans m Concert. 8:00 p.m. Hudson Hall. Ticket $2.50 and $4. Sat., January 31 -·zane Grey born in 1875. Norman Mailer born in 1923 Chinese New Year (Year of the Dragon) Jean Redpath, music of Scotland, British Isles, 8:30, Caffe Lena, Saratoga Springs. Reservations: 584~9789. Sun., February l The Three Musketeers will be shown at 7, 9, and 11:00 by the Film Committee, in the usual place at the new weekend price of $1.00. Strauss lounge, 7:30 p.m, celebration of Catholic Mass, followed by a social. Students, faculty, staff all welcome. Sponsored by Newman Campus Ministry. Southwest International Livestock Show ~nd Rodeo. El Paso. Texas. Admission Free. transportation $4.00 round trip. Susan Kronish born 1957. Joe Carroll, jazz vocalist, Ramada Inn, Nott St. and Erie Blvd. Free 370-n51. Jean Redpath music of Scotland, British Isles, 8:30. Caffe Lena, Saratoga Springs. Reservations: 584-9789. Rebel Witl'!out a , Cause, 7 - p.m. RPI Cultrual Center, 2125 -· . Burdett Ave., Troy,· 754: 274- 7793 Mon., Feb~uary 2 Ground Hog's Day The Speakers Forum presen_ts Jimmy Breslin at 8:00 m Memorial ChapeL Admission is G~.¢. WRUC Exec-utive Board Meeting at 7:30 p.m.. in 'the Station Lounge 011 the second floor of Carnegie Hall. Everyone is invited to attend. Union Book: All students who are interested in performing interviews and who are interested in writing: furthermore. all students who wish to think and other keen things like that; there will be a meeting of the lite.tary committee. in the Union Book office (located on. the Third floor of Carnegie) at 9:30 p.m. Clark Gable born 1901 Graham Nash born 1942 Ben Green born 1956 Joe Carroll jazz vocalist, Ramada Inti, Nott St. and Erie Blvd. 370-7151. Tues., February 3 The Film Committee presents \Guys and Dolls\ starring Marlon Brando. At 7:30 and 10:00 in SS016. Admission is 50¢. Fashion and Costume Interpretation and Production. The third in a series of six classes. Topic: Clothing Construction Design, draping and pattern. drafting qass starts at 7:30 in the Nott Memorial Theater, led by Susanne J. Frisch, Union's new costume designer and weaver. Any questions call 370·6128. Cabaret Game Night 9:00 p\m. to 1:00 a.m. Wed., February 4 Due to such a great Tuesday night - Wednesday has been cancelled. Betty Friedan born 1921 FAX is a year and a half old today! * •. * * <;alendar inf9rmation must be received by Monday in the Con• l:ordiensis Office or call Sheryl Farber , at 31~·64~0~ Plet~se include ~II nec~ssary •n.orma 100 , and a. brief description of event. If you are p~anning an event aod would like the rest ·of the college community to know about .it, -pleue· Itt •. know. Photo taken in England; Fall '75; by Lee Bloomrosen

ix J. 00 be the John' Ford film: \She Wore a Yellow Ribbon,\ Jan'. 30, 8:00PM in room SS016. Free. Seniors: .P·lease check your mailbox every week! Important announcements !Ire coming! The Ba~i~ Educational Opportunity Grant (BEOG) applications for the 1976-. 77 year are available in the Student Aid Of.fice. Pn;vious recipients must file an application each year. New applicants might wish to discuss tlie possibility of qualifying for an award with the Director of Student Aid. ATTENTION: Computer Science, Industrial Econo~ics, and Industrial Administration Majors - Sperry Univac . _. The Roseville Software Development Center is ·.coming to recruit on January 28th. If von are interested in Programming or Systems Analysis, Software Language Systems and applications, sign up now in Placement Office. WRUC reminds the entire student body that a rideboard is aired twice daily at 6:30 and 10:30· PM. If you are in need of a ride or .rider, leave your first name and phone number at the station (second floor ·Carnegie). The success of the rideboard is solely determined by the use it receives from the students. SENIORS: PLACE YOUR ORDER for graduation announcements with Mrs. Marra in Student Activities. Part-Time Jobs: The Placement Office has information on part-time jobs on and off campus. Stop in and ask at the . Placement Office. Help JIMMY · CARTER win the New York State Democratic Presidential primary. Contact Dave Colclman at 346- 0226. . . CONCORDIENSIS, Wednesday, Jan. 28, 1976 The Classifieds P~ge of the New CONCORDIENSIS is primarily a student service; as such, all materi.al submitted· will be published FREE of charge., :To insure that the items submitted are printed, all copy MUST be in by Monday at 8:00 PM. Items to be repeated must have the number of runs specified. The Union College CONCORDIENSIS assumes no responsibility for typographical errors, but will print a correction. If you want a ride, or you have something to sell' or you simply want to see something of your own pljnted up in a major world. publication, PLEASE, don;t ··hesitate! This is a FREE service~ so take advantage of it. If you wish to submit material which conforms to the format of the Cl~ssifieds Page, sirnply slip it under the Concordy • Office door (third floor Carnegie) or leave it with yours truly, Todd Miner at 224, West. Financial Aid A,pplica tions Applications kr all formf, of financial aid are now available at the Qf,(ice of Student ·Aid, OIG Gym Hall. Students desiring renewal .of aid as well as those seeking an original ~rant of a~s!stance must submit !!JlPlicatil:)ns. In addition to scholarships, applications must be filed for Grant-in-Aids, College Work , Study, Board Jobs and Loans. Applications for aid must be submitted no later than March I, 1976. On February 3 and 4, 1976, frem .9:30 AM-4:30 PM, at the SUNY /Albany's Campus Center Iiall Room, a chance~ for all college students to learn more about job . o,p,portlmities· within gover.nment agencies. Recruiters from various federal and state agencies will be available to discuss potential government jobs, eligibility requirements, application· procedures, salary and job locations. Free buses will be provided for students who_ are interested in attending. Stop by the Placement and Career Counseling Office as soon as possible to reserve a seat on the bus. . ASCE meeting: Thursday, January 29, 7:30 PM, BU 109. Ouest speakers from Navy will prese.nt slide show of construction of a \Hyper-velocity ·(10-20 Mach) Wind Tunnel\ and typical Seabee construction Projects. Everyone is invited. Refreshments will be served. The State Education Dep.t. has announced the 1976 Competition for Earthwatch Scholarships. Winners 'are involved a:; apprentices- .in fi(fld research programs under the direction of seasoned 'professionals. ~.o~t of the projects involve field investigations and surveys in the natural sciences, e.g., ~.rchaeology, anthropology, astronomy, biology, geology,\ marine science and zoology. You dO. not pave to be a student of science to participate in this program. They are simply looking for exceptional indjviduals who .demonstrate a keen mind, agile imagination, and a unique ·capability for research and discovery. Applicants must apply by February 18, 1976. For more information and applications come to the Placement .office. · - The next meeting of th~ Student-Faculty Bridge Club will be held on Tuesday, Feb. 10 at 7:45 PM in the Hale House Upper, Lounge. The fesults of the last meeting were: First place: Profs. Goodheart and Bacon; Second place (tie): Pulling and Mannis and Sachs and Kni.ckmeyer. I'm interested in buying a .pair of men~s ice skates - either figure or hockey - size 9~. If you have a used pair t& sell, could you pfease call Paul at 346·9225? New Citizen Newspaper: Is looking for a student who would like some experience working on ali aspects of a newspaper: reporting. editing, paste-up, layout, etc.; and also a studeJ:It who would be interested in the advert~sing and soliciting of this paper. · ... Please call Mr. Carl Saindon for further information on 377-5524. · Books wanted: English 10 - Medieval and Renaissance; US History 10 - Colonial Period: and A Survey of Modern .Europe (1715-1945). Ask for S:cott at 346- 9272. BOOKS FOR SALE: Spanish 11 - Espanol, a lo Vivo - $3.50; Spanish 12 - Lengua y lectura - $3.50: Spanish- EnglislllEnglish-Spanish dictionary - $4. Bio 14 text- $1'0. Contact Gwen, 309 West. 1) RIDE WANTED to Florida around March 15th. Will split all costs. Call Linda at 374-6700, or Candy at 372-0216. RIDE WANTED: to Pittsburgh or in that direction. Harrisburg, ·Scranton; anywhere in west Pennsylvania. A ride to New York might suffice so I can get a bus. Would lire to leave Thursday or Friday, Jan. 28-29. Contact Arthur Mazer, 224 West at 346- 9369. Interested In a ride to the College Park. MD-Washington, D.C. area? Leaving Thurs., Feb. 6; or Fd., Feb. 7 and returning Sunday. Have car-will travel. Send applications and resumes to .J 07 Irving St., or Box 1929 Union College, or call 393\2203 for an appointment. Ask for Ruth. Will ask compensation and request operating assistance. RIDE WANTED week of Feb. 6 - to Rochester. Leave: Friday; return: Sunday. Contact Rich, 203 South, at 346-2962. RIDE WANTED from Long Island to Union, Sunday, Feb. 22. Call Cathy, 215 West, at 370-6677. RIDE WANTED to Long Island and area. Contact Viv at 346-9545. Page 9 LOST&FOUND LOST: a double•sirand liquid silver necklace with brown beads. Great senitmental value. If found, please call 370- 6763. LOST: from IFC Ball Coatroom - a French, blue-grey suede shearling-lined knee length coat. Reward! Contact Lori at 370-6733. No questions asked. LOST: lady's glove. left hand. Tan, vinyl; long cuff. If found, please call 374-3600. :FOUND: Gold Ringed Earirtg - if lost call 6570. SEVERAL LOST ITEMS ·have been coll~cted from the Fox Dorm Party last Saturday night. Anyone wishing further information should contact Wendy [370- 6618). Lonely Classified Page Editor seeks copy desperately. Will accept anything with no questions asked. Personals, Lost and Found, Apartments, Bulletin Board, Rides, For Sale; anything that even remotely resembles some form of copy. Nothing submitted too large or small. If interested, or even mildly curious, call 370-6143 and ask for \the Editor.\ or drop off your item(s) at either the Concordy Office(third- floor Carnegie), or at 224 West. Thank. you for listening. Now get going on your Classified Page ad ... oh, you've made me SO happy! FERN G. Wanted: a Molson's. Call 372.0804. six-pack of _A,_TDDAY''S CIDSIIDB.D -PUZ:ZLB- ACF.IOSS 46 Stationar\': ; laSt W88k'S puule SOlVed: . WANTED: Stratomatic baseball players for season continuing through end of Spring Term. All interested contact Lan~;e, 359 Fox, at 370-6:?Q6. RIDE WANTED to Springfield, MASS. Contact Mike at 370-6507. RIDE WANTED to Geneseo, Jan.. 30 (Friday afternoon). Contact Neil at 370- 6600. ANNOUNCING the new Concordiensis \Submit Your Copy Contest!\ Here's all you have to do: simply write up the ·item you wish to submit legibly, and drop it off at either the Concordy Office or with Todd Millet. 224 West. That's it. No strings; no gimmicks: just a matter of submitting copy. Winners will have the items which the Classified Editor feels are worthy of appearing on hi' page printed up on ~aid aforementioned page. Remember. nobody loses when they go Concordiensis. 1 Iowa mdlans~· ~ . Informal ~-- . - ' ' - 5. Buddhist 47 Compass monk point 9 Santa-···-, 49 Cominon Cal. ailments 14 Woodwind 51 Jazz compo· 15 Continuously sition . 16 Containing 54 Persons 1n , - gold general 17· Vessel 58 Po some- 18 Immediate . thing successor: 3 60 Singuh:u per- words · son 20 Prefix with 61 Love of the while · · English 21 One·of the 63 Brutish - .•. ' l E S T A S f, I SIC, I RIA IP· A P A·R -D 0 WN T R 0. v IE H 0 bE 0 :r \ c. ~A .V .. E N> A DA H s s T (l p 0 ,VII': RI·S. R E s u ·H E S H 'A K E t AI.B 'S E 'f,e T I p p 0. L A R B E A RS c A s A E V E N>T p I E D A. L IL v TENT B ARN'DA N ~II': IS !!ED T~ R; T IIR E - S A L A' D D E ~ T 0 R . 'D E: C . A H E T E R iY R A p E. A L 0 N E I C 0 N A P I N L A KE s s D A IRI K IE IN if I N.E R T M y RfAI E D IE IS \T's\ in person \TNT\ 64 \The life of 22 Vendor ----- \ folk cere- 35 Cone 23 In reply to 65 Army ranks: mony: 3 producer your wire: Abbr; words 37 Very·bad Abbr. 66 Practical 8 Craft .38 Greek porti- 25 Revile jokes 9 Thrashed cos 27 Bar 67 Thoughts 10 Cause to rest 40X 29 Brewmas- 68 Informal 11 Seed outer 41 --- of consent ter'sproduct room~ covering 46 Word struc- 30 Attract 69 Chemical 12 Fine Russian tore 34 Banff suffix: Pl. hemp 48 Puppet Spring~, for DOWN 13 Maple genu$ 49 Gluts one 1 Not intoxi- 19 ----of Wight 50 Descendant 36 Food article cated 24 Lifting device 52 Come 3ll Urbane 2 \Don't be - 26 \·-·-·than together 39 Grain har- ----!\ Methuselah\ 53 Urgeon vest: 3 words 3 Cascades' 28 Evergreen 54 Equal: Prefix 42 Feeling of neighbor: 2 30 French 55' Feminhu~ hostility words nobleman name 43 Western 4 Smallsofa 31 Cook Islands 56 Wanton look · 5 Made loans r. 57 Appeal U.S. city nattve 44 Can. prov. 6 Affirms con- 32 English river 59 Russ. news 45 Numerical fic;lently 33 Shed tears agency suffix 7 No. Amer. 34 Quick blow 62 Besides ·'·t·. \ • FOR SALE: Various guitars. This week's special: jumbo acoustic 12- string, Guild thin-line acoustic-electric d- string, Also repairs and maintainance on all guitars. Instruction. All reasonably priced. Call 374-3621. FOR SALE: Math - College Calculus with Analytic Geometry •. Political S~ience • The Learning of Political lfehavior; Political Socialization; J,>oliticaJ .. Learning, P.olitical Choice and Democratic Citizenship; C!tildren and Politics, Contact Nate, 316 Davidson at 370-6640. NO MARKS. FOR SALE: Texas Instruments SR-11 (electronic slide rule calculator). One-year- old. excellent condition; comes with box, adaptor/charger, carrying case and instruction booklet. $SO. Contact Chris Vilardi, 302 McKean at 346-9303. STEREO EQUIPMENT cFOR SALE: One pair speakers 10\ 3-way acoustic suspension (home built); A'mplifier Heathkit! AAI214 15 watt rms/channel. Will drive speakers in a good\sized room; SONY cassette recorder/player with noise- reduction system and counter. Buy together or separately. Call 372-3551. BOOKS FOR SALE: Physics 11, 13 for Biology majors; Sociology 10-Dr. Schneller: Comp Ed 57 - The Nature of Mathematics. Call Mary or Holly at 393- 9740. FOR SALE: Audiovox 8 - track stereo. fFMl \radio adapter. Fits into any car 8-track system; includes antenna and plug-in device. Like rtew. used for two weeks. $30; Tf interested, contact ;owner at 39H239. IFOR SALE: Size 10 ski boots. LANGE PRO with Flo. Used about ten. times. List price: $150 new: will sell at $4§. Call Dave at 882-9373 or 237-0785. FOR SALE: '64 Epiphone Wilsh'ire. Good condition. Asking $175. Contact Craig 377-7107. FOR SALE: Spaulding tennis :racquet:;· \Pancho Gonzales\ series. Recently restrung. Comes ~ith jacket and wooden press. $8. See Nate, 316 Davidson or call 370-6640. BOOKS FOR SALE: Economics 10 with Prof. Reynolds: Principles of Mactoeconomlcs (Mansfield). $2; Macroeconomies (Reynolds - $3.50. FE 22 - Intro Sociology 10 with Prof. Weinel'. Tally's Comer (Leibow) - $1.50; Sex, Gender and Society - $1.50; The Uses of Disorder - $1; Deviants - $1.50. Contact Terry, 112 Webster House at 370-6694. RIDE NEEDED to Ithaca -- leaving this Thursday or Friday. Call Jeff at 377-7005. RIDE WANTED to Philadelphia; Villanova - Jan. 30. Contact Laurie, 404 West. at 346-9491. RIDE WANTED to Texas, ancy convenient date. Will share driving and expenses. Call: 887·2848. RIDE WANTED: Friday, Feb. 6., after 12:20 to Long Island, or New York City. Will share expenses. Call Pete, 359 Davidson at 370-6579. APTS ROOMMATE WANTED: One blod from the college. Furnished. Very .close io the market, laundry, post office, bank. New and clean. Call 382-8560 or 372-8841. Ask for Alev. If I'm no! in, leave your telephone number. Female bousemate wanted for Spring Tetm in a congenial WeJ!dell Ave. apartment. Five minute walk from campus, four bed rooms, two fireplaces (living room. back yard), inexpensive. Don't miss out on the joys of spring .off-campus. Call: 377-4904. ;iJiitiiliiiillllllllillllllllllii111111lldllfilill1filiiilliii~ ii :MIKE'S:·I = .. = ~ .-ERIE BL VO~, i t§ E· '5 HOT DOGS ie ~E § :~ HAMBURGERS ~ € BEST STEAK · ~ ;i. SA~DWICHES i '5 **** a :1 1135 Erie Blvd. ~ ~~IIIIIIIIIUJ!II.I.IJ!!!l!!!!.l!!!m'!I~IIIUI!Q!~III!!IF The new Concordiensis. It's more than just yellow journalism. Time to put away the bull-horr Stephanie. Happy 21st. You know who. Hi; it's me again. The Classified Page editor. Now, shame on you la7y people! Here I am, offering you a tremendous journalistic service for nada, and you STILL haven't submitted anything! Do you realize what this means? They might abolish my editorship! They might turn me out on the cold Schenectadv streets without even a terse 'goodbye!• Please; don't let them do it! Show the world what Union College students are REALLY like! Start submitting ·items for publication today, and I can assure you, this editor will be eternally grateful. The deadline for fall term abroad applications (fall in England, France, and Italy 1976) is Friday, February 20. · See Professors Klemm, Roberts, and Warde in H.U 211 for information. FOR UQUOR AND Wl,NE . ~Try .Idee - Lip$fein's :Records G'lore 1 Check Out These' p .. :.ces During Our Sale CAMPUS STORE NOTT MEMORIAL Sale Ends February 27th

CONCORDIE_NSIS, Wednesday, Profile:· Tom Cahill's long road back by CHRIS O'CONNOR One year ago, Union made its bid for 'big'-time' athletics by hiring Coaches Harkness and Cahill.· At least that's how the local press told it. In the harsh light of the football team'sdisappointing season, those predictions were exposed to be the overplayed journalistic claptrap that they always were. What of Tom Cahill, though? And what of Union's football team? What does a coach do after a 1-7 season? In this case, he bears down. While Coach Harkness' crack troo.ps have been blitzkrieging virtually everybody this side of the NHL, Cahill and his staff are out trying to recruit the players that can turn around Union's gridiron fortunes. happened to rank in the bottom With regard to the NESCAC 20% of his high school class, with rules, however, Cahill feels quite SAT scores in the low four- differently. He regrets not having hundreds. While this student is . the opportunity to talk to the being recn.J.ited by numerous student in his home. He wants to schools (including Harvard!), talk to the student's parents, and Cahill commented that since he to see the ;prospect in his natural has no chance at Union, it's not environment. He comments that worth the time to recruit him. The \the key to Union is the -personal coach further noted that Union relationships that a student can gives no \free ride\ athletic develop.\ yet, in the recruiting scholarships '(such as the ones process, the coach is denied the which Siena awards, to four chance to deal personally with th~ basketball players each year). All student in the student's home. admissions and financial aid Tom Cahill has a difficult job, decisions are strictly beyond the made more diff;icult by the control of the football coaching limitations he must overcome. staff. Nonetheless, one feels that he will· Cahill reacted differently to the succeed. While rnost coaches two types of restrictions being coine on very strong - they s1ap imposed on him. He strongly you on the back, shake your hand defended those that Union vigorously, extol their team's enforces. He cites Williams as_ a _ virtues, and promise you that this . program that Union would do they will win, win, win! Tom In a recent interview, Coach Cahill discussed the difficulties of revtvmg the Union football program. Union operates under r. recruiting regulations sanctioned by the New England Small College . Athletic Conference (NESCAC). These rules forbid coaches to visit prospective students except on the campus; so the coaches must contact students and invite them to come to Union. This is a long and difficult -we-If to emulate;- a program that Cahill just leans bac.k in his chrur, ·. produces good .football teams sets his jaw, and says. quietly \.:. ' without sacrificing the academic and we will start winning , .. \ It is Tom Cahill, Union's football coach. standards ·of the College. impossible not to belieye him'. .. More Grammy predictions - ·--· . - ·-· -process, made more ·difficult by the fact that ·some non-NESCAC coaches may be wining and dining the prospective student in his own home town. Further restnctmns are imposed by Union. Coach Cahill noted . that he had an excellent prospect (a' six-foot, two- hundted.:.pount hitlfbacR) who just ,-. ·' ' ' like Elton to win, and I have a sneaking suspicion he will, but I'm going to let this award go unpredicted. Song of the year (given to songwriter, rather than artist): \At Seventeen,\ J. Ian; \Feelings M. Albert; \Lpve Will Keep Us Together,\ N. Sedaka, H, Greenfield; \Rhinestone Cowboy,\ L. .Weiss; '\Send In the Clowns,\ S. Sondlteim. Either ••tove\ or \Seventeen\ Continued from Page 5 will take it. Ms. Ian has a better taking this one. the sax duo has chance, if NARAS has any taste, been doing session work for a few since as a soqg it, is better, even ·years. before putting out a solo though \Love\ is a · mo~;e album. It's gn~at. But K.C. is one infectious tune. Unfortunately, M the kings of disco shlock, NARAS; doesn't always have· which is riding high. The taste. Call it a toss-up. Sun&hine Band Will win, but it's a B~st New Artist: .Morris Albert, damn shame: .... Amazing Rhythm Aces, Brecker Best Producer (Non-Classical): Bros., Natalie Cole, .K.C. & the Peter Asche:f, .. ~Gus Dudgeon, Sunshine Band. tambert &: Potter, Ar.if Mardin, .-'~ lf . there's.. .any · justice, ·the. : Bill Szymoz;y;Ji. ' Breckers will have no .trouble · Szymczyk (sim-chick) should wfn. He's one of the more prolific ··producers and'und, doing groups Title IX deadline · 1 such as the .Michael Stanley Band . !~:. \·\ 3nd the Eagles. :.J),udgeon may ., , :. , ,,, take 'it,. by· virtue of his work with committees, will be analyzed, updated, and resubmitted as Union's final Title IX report. No Admission Bias With the January 31 deadline for the sub-divisions to submit their reports to Dean Smith approaching, the Department of Admissions has compiled its - policy and attitude report. \Our policy is to provide complete equality for all,\ said Admissions Director Shupt:. \The key, -starting from the assumption that Union is a male institution by tradition, is that we must think of equalizing experiences for women rather than detracting from those · of men.\ The Admissions Department stated its policy back in 1974 in its \Report on Coeducation\: \the committee will be charged with selecting students based on the qualifications of each applicant as an individual ... \ - Continued from PaJge 1 women's floors ' have more kitchenettes), \no judgements\ can be made on inequities that exist without first determining if any need exists. \Facilities can only change over a span of years,\ she explained, \and changes have to be gradual and equal.\ Possible equalization of facilities would involve rearranging the nature of a number of floers. Aid Equal Joseph Maras, Director of Financial Aid, has found in his Title IX survey an almost , , , Elton· John, bu,t he did such a ;--_. . .. . . ·· .-,miserable job \with Rock Of The c?m.ple~ely proportionate WestieS, he should be jailed.· dtstnbutton of atd to males .an.d Likewise, Lambert . & Potter female~. In t~e cl~.ss. ~f ,f979, should be locked up· for purveying 67.3% of the fmancral atd offers disco on the airwaves. wer~ made to men, who received ·Best Pop Male Vocalist: ·~Bad 68% of the money allotments. Blood,\ Sedaka; . \Capt. 32.7% of the offers were made to . Fantastic\; \Feelings Morris wome~, ~ho accepted 31.3% of Albert; \RhinestO'ne Cowboy .. ; the dtstnbuted momey. \'Maras \Still Crazy After All These feels that these figures show a Years.\ total objectivity on the part of the financial aid office: ~Title IX,\ he concluded, \adds another little glob of consciousness for Union to continue the trend that began when we went coed.\ Union's future Another tough one. Albert and Campbell can be dismissed fairly easily. rd· be hesitant to pick Sedaka, because he had a great deal of help from Elton~ John. It boils down to a toss-up· between Elton and Simon. l hope Elton takes it, but l will not be too disapponted if Paut-Simon does. • ·Best Comedy:An Evening :With Continued from Page _1_ . Wally Londo, George Carlin; Is It prestigious small colleges, does Something I Said?, · Ricbard not possess a national reputation ' Pryor; Matching Tie And \ih the sense of having our name Handkerchief, r Monty Pytbon; easily recognized.\ Changing this Modem Scream, Lily Tomlin; A situation wottld not only bolster Star Is Bought, Albert Brooks. Union's a<lmissions, but also Forget Carlin: the album is a increase the pride that students, turkey. Pryor's· disc is hilarious, faculty, and alumni hold for ~he btit not airplayable, and limited in campus in budgetary decisions. The plan recognized that competition for students will grow as Union tries to hold its present enrollmenl. To face this competition which other s~hools will present to · us, Bonner outlined two procedures. The first is increased recruiting by the admissions staff. This year, the staff is visiting many more high schools outside of New York State, venturing into many areas for the first time. In addition, Bonner cites a need to bolster the .. visibility\ of the College. He noted that Union, compateq to the Little Three Schools or other College. In conclusion, Bonner - noted that in the context of small, private colleges, Union is in a strong p·osition. He cited l)nion as stronger- financially than the average NESCAC school, and claimed our position to be even better among pril(ate colleges within New York State. appeal. A Star is a work of hisane genius, but Brooks i:s. a relative m:iknowrt, outside of NBC's • Saturday Night, and unlikely 'to win. Python has the best shot at this one. The album is fabulous, all ··three sides of it, and the country is riding a ·wave · of Pyth6J'rmania.-I am anxious to see thei:r ac~pJance speech. Best vocal ped'ormance by a ' · group, 1 duo~6r. cb~ru~: ... A C~pella , 2, ''·The Si'hgers U nlirrtited; \Love Will Keep Us Toget!;ter\; \'Lyin: Eyes\' \My· Little Town~·· Sitnon ' '. · & Garfurikel; \The Way· We · Were/Try ·'To ·!''Remember,\ Gladys Knight & the Pips . This i's also a-hard :one. Balance .an incredibly popular vocal job . against a favorite duo, back together for a , song, against a perennial Grammy power. My favorite is Simon & Gaifurtkel, and in, -my opnion they' should ·win. · There they are: my predictions for the- 1975 Grammy awards. The choice often came to the least of several evils, but, l had no hand in the nominations. If l had, they may have looked different. ln any case-, I'll be watching the tube on ·the 28th of next month; to clock tny prognostications and' to , satisfy my morbid curiosity. .. E ·~ <;'--:P. \\.\'(1\ltls· . .-, c~ -=--t ~\t'tl\\ ·~I · -· Pizzeria 4:1 'Ill ALTAMONT' :AVE. Take Orders to,li:45 p.m. Delivery to l p.m. CaD 374-5600 According to Shupe, this policy might mean an almost complete objectivity of student .selection, while at the same time maintaining the College's diversity. He explained that private colleges were exempt from Admissions discrimination reports due to possible \lobbying by prestigious private institutions.\ Shupe maintains that many sexual biases that still exist are most prevalent in .pr-ospective students' parents. He also believes that ~chools like Union, having only recently gone coed, are \reacting in a much more enlightened way\ to the requirements of Title IX. -- ...... ·-. . .. _~ THURSDAY, JANUARY 29· Housing Disparities In the area of housing, director Debbie lGTgus -made- a ·\cut and dry\ evaluation of · various facilities available to both men and women. While it presently seems that conditions favor women (66 · singles exist for women as opposed to 40 for men; .Rideboard is Aired at 6:30 and 10:38 p.m. UNION COLLEGE SCHENECTADY, N.Y. l230a (518) 370-6151 Show$ at 9:00 and 11:00 p.m. T•c;kets on sale _at 8:00 _p.m. in Carnegie Thursday night CABARET features the return of the special duo, Cathy Agnello ,from Vassar and Laird Scranton from Oregon.· (Hostil'lg the show will be the comedy team, Levine and Levy. Gary and Gary, respectively.) Coming up: The infamous \Lets . Make a Deal\ Cabaret on February S. - Monday night intellectual Cabaret will present Bob Backer, John Boyer discussing the ethics of genetics. '

' CONCORDIENSIS, Wednesday, Jan. 28, 1976 ·Legmen split at hollie support by taking fourth place. ·_In the 600 yard run, Union~s relay men, Bob Moffat and Billy Auger took first and second place by 'JEFF SCI:IEININGER \ 1 • . .points. Union dominated the high In the field events, Union respectively. ln the final track scored 38 points and came in first event, the 1 ;000 yard run, Kevin in four of the events. The relays Scheuer took first place honors. were very exciting. In the two The team performed very well mile relay, the team of Tom in this meet. As had been Lawson, Kevin Scheuer, Bob expected it was a close .match, Moffat, and Steve Jones came however, a number of unlucky from, behind to take first place. mishaps prevented the Garnet Union also took first place in the from being victorious. Among mile JelllY· The runners (hese mishaps were the participating in this event were: disqualification .of Milt Herring Billy Auger, Dave Ricks, Bob for a . false start in the 50 yard Moffat, and Steve Mastiatis. dash, and the disqualification for Distance man Steve Jones took a . the same reason of Mike May in respectable third place in both the the 55 yard high hurdles. Anoth~ mile, and two mile runs. Mark unforseen problem that hurt the Decker dashed to a third place team was the absence of both berth in the 50 yard dash and, in Mark Scheuer and Don Rappold. the 55-yard high hurdles Decker Mark Scheuer was injured and again placed, this time second, Rappold was un~,tble to attend the with , Andy Barber lending meet fot personal reasans. · · Union's indoor track team split jump with Captain Dave Plumer its.first meet, beating Middlebury, taking first place, Keith cummins and l~s~ng by a very close mar~in taking second place, and Cliff to 'Y1~ha~s. The scores for th~ Rogers taking fourth place. In the pa~tl~tp,atmg . tea~s. were .. pole vaulting, Union again W_l H tams- 6 7 ' l:J n t on- 6 3 '. dominated, taking three of the M1d!llebury-6. . . . four places. Scoring far the The Gamet dtd very well m Gamet were: Dave Ricks in first most of t~e events. · In the .track place, Steve Mastiatis in third events Umon scared 25 of 1ts 63 place, and Bruce Bonnano in fourth place. Ricks scored for the Gamet again by taking second place in the long jump, \Shot- putter-Pete;, Sherman was sufficiently recovered from an injury to place first in his event. The fmal track event, the triple jump, sa'!Y Union~s Earl Chilton and Dave PlUmer placing second · and third respectively. same ole stuff Track results. by BILL PECK . Mark Jenkins scored 4 goals and added 5 assists as U niort College hockey_ team continued its winning W!lYS this past week, first overwhelming Plattsburgh State, ll-2, at home; then crushing North · Adams State, 11-l. The Plattsb1.1rgli game found Union scoring early and often, with Brad Hinterberger . n~tting the puck with only 47' seconds gone. Plattsburgh scored a few minutes later on a power play, but the Garnet took control after· that, scoring 3 nlore times in the first period, 4 times in the second ·and another j in the third before · Plattsburgh could scpre again, once more on a power play. Skeeter Gazzola scored twice for the ·Dutchmen, as did Tom PahapiU, and Donny Marshall added 3 assists, much to the delight of the 3200 fans at Achilles rink. The North Adams game, played before a small crowd of about 400, was tougher than the score indicated, with the Dutchmen findi.ng themselves in a tight 3-1 game until midway through the second period. Mark Jenkins' , 2 scores and Grant Judd's goal had given the Dutchmen their lead. Jenkins added his third goal and Judd his second as the Garnet pulled ahead MON. 11:30-1:00 2:30-3:30 7:00-10:00 LORI Jump Shot Put High Jump Two Mile ltelay ·Mile ·Run ' 600 Pole Vault 55H Hurdles 50 Dash 1000 Two Mile Mile - Relay Triple Jump TUE. 11:30-1:00 2:30-3:30 7:00-10:00 . I .. ,2 . 3 U'11V2\ lO'f;:W' 10'4\ Perry (W) Ricks (U) Martin.(M) 40'11z'' 38'10\ 38'7\ SJterman (U) Palladino (W) Tercek (W) 6'5\ 6'0\' 6'0\ Plumer (U) . Crlmming11 (U) Ashley (W) Lawson..Scheuer Moffat-Jones Union 8:00.9 Williams 8:01..8 4:12.3 4:22.8 4:26.5 Wallace (W) Sullivan (W) Jones (U) 1:14.5 1:17.8 1:18.4 Moffat (U) Auger (U) Ashley (W) 14'0\ 13'6\ 13'0\ Ricks (U) . MeLaughry (W) Mastiatis (U) 7.1 White (W) 5.7 Perry (W) 2!16.7 'Scheuer (U) 9:20.0 Kolb (W) Ricks-Mastiatls Aliger•Moffat Union 3:30.9 41'11\ Perry (W) WED. 11:30-3:30 7:00-9:00 7.4 1·.1 Dedr.er (U) Ashley (W) 5.7 5.7 Bass (W) Deeker(U) 2:22.2 2:24.3 Seeger (W) Schreck (W) 9:31.5 9:34.3 Carr (W) Jones (U) Williams 3:31 0 . 41'10\ 40'1\ CbiHon (U) .Plumer (U) POOL HOURS THURS. 11:30-1:00 2:30-3:30 ,/ 7:00-10:00 FRI. 11:30-1:00 2:30-3:30 7:00-10:00 4 19'9' 1 CoDins (W) 36'10\ Tanner (W) 6'0\ Rogers (U) 4:29.4 Hoffman .(M) 1:19.8 Case (M) 12'6\ Bonanno (U) 8.0 Barber (U) 5.85 Benepe (M) 2:21.6 Efmger(M) 9:39.2 Leinbaek (W)' 39'6%'' Collins (W) SAT. 12:00-4:00 7:30-9:30 SUN. 1:30-4:30 P'!_ge 11. sports STATS Union vs. Plattsburg Stat~ Period l·Sc:orlng !) Union. Hinterberger (Church ill), :4 7: 2) Plattsburg, Cree (Wescott. Luker), 3:40: 3) Union, Kardos (Giallonardo}, 7:49; 4) Union.O:ConneWKardos). 13:13; 5) Union. Pahapill (Jenkins), 19:03. Penalties -.Union, Kardos, tripping. 3:17. l]nion,Judd, charging, 12:12. Union. Kaminski, tripping, 16:30. Union, shots 12, saves 4, Baker: Platts. shots 5, saves 8. Satterly. Peri eel 2-Sr:oring - f'> J u 111on. Jenkins (Marshall). 5:30: 7) Union, Gazzola (Thomann, Bagley). 12:40; 8) Union, Judd (Churchill, Hinterbe<ger) 1 17;18: 9) Union, Pahapill (Schmalz, Marshall) 18:02. Penalties - Plattsburg, Pardo, charging. 2:25. Union, Giallonardo. interference. 3:27. Union, Hamilton, high· sticking, 14:01. Plattsburg, Carrigan. high sticking, 14:01. Plattsburg, Prado, interference, 16:21. Plattsburg, Carrigan, interference, 17:51. Union, shots I0-22, saves S-9. Baker; :• Platts., shots 5-10, saves 6-14, Lamenao1a. Period 3-Seoring - 10) Union, Churchill (Judd, Hinterberger), 4:50; II) Union, Gazzola (Kardos), 7:49; 12) Union, Mathewson (Marshall, Jenkins), 9:26; 13) Plattsburg, Dahrne (Luker), 15:18. Penllties - Plattsburg. Cannel, tripping, 5:17. Union, Gaizola. holding. 10:09 . Union, Oiallonardo, high sticking, 10:55 . Plattsburg, Luker, high sticking, 10:55 . Union. Churchill, high sticking, 14:55. Union, Churchill. tripping, 19:02. Union, shots 17, total 39; saves 0, total 9: Baker. Platts., shots I. total II; saves 14, total 28; Lamendola. Union n. North Adams (MIISS.) State College Period 1-Scorln& - l) Union. Jenkins (Marshall. Pahapili), 3:06; 2) N ortb Adams, Johnston (O'Leary, Denzer), 7.:39; 3) Union, Judd (Churchill), 9:47; 4) Union, Jenkins (Marshall, Pahapill). 19:52. Peultles - Union, Rankin, cross checking, 7:43. Union, Hamilton, cross checking. 10:32. Union, Oiallonardo, elbowing, ,JJ:I9. Union. Rankin, tripping, 15:59. Union, shots 20, saves 13. Baxter, 'NA, shots 14. saves 17, Gaffney. Period 2-Scorin& - 5) Union, Jenkins (Pahapill). 10:23: 6) Union, Judd (Bagley), 13:05. Penalties - North Adams, Zanettie, elbowing, 6:32. Union, Pahapill, elbowing, 15:04. Union. Hinterberger, elbowing, 19:04. Union, shots 14-34, saves 4-17, Baxter: NA, shots 4-18, saves 12-29, Gaffney. Period 3-Scoring - 7) Union, Marshall (Jenkins, Mathewson). l:ll; 8) Union. Giallonardo (Churchill, Judd), 4:07; 9) Union, Pahapill (Jenkins). 6:19: 10) Union, Marshall (Jenkins, Hinterberger), 7:19; II) Union, Churchill (Hinterberger), 7:45; 12) Union, Kardos (Giallonardo, Judd), 12:53. Penllties - Union. Hinterberger, high sticking, 1:53. North Adams. Allan, cross checking. 10:29. Union, Gazzola, Rankin, Giallonardo. North Adams. O'Leary, McNaught. Gaffney, all for roughing, 14:33. Union, shots 17. total 51, saves 13, total 30, Baxter; NA, shots 13. total 31, saves 11. total 40, Gaffney. . 5-l after 2 periods. The Mohawks came out for the third period and proceedc::d to fall apart under the continuing Dutchmen attack, resulting in 6 quick goals for Union, most of them on plays where the tired State players stood around watching the proceedings. Hockey and Hoop statistics Both games exemplified the superior conditioning and team play of the . Dutchmen, as they continually outchecked, outskated and outhustled their opponents. The defense, led by Jack Rankin, so stifled the opposition that one almost forgot that Union had a goalie out there. Jim Baxter· stopped 30. shots against North Adams, but most were weaK. or · partially blocked. Steve Baker had an easier time against Plattsburgh, facing only 11 shots throughout the game. Coach Harkness said he felt that though the games have been . routs, Union has played near perfect hockey, especially the forechecking, hackchecking and passing: Mike O'Connell, who took a hard check in the leg against Plattsburgh, will hopefully return to action this week, along with John Wright, who's been out with a broken nose. The Garnet invades Buffalo tonight (Wed.) for a rematch wi~h . the Bulls, then returns home against Brockport State Saturday night at Achilles rink. .. UNION BASKETBALL STATISTICS THRU 11 GAMES Games Reb. Assists Pts. Avg. Denio II IS 49 131 11.9 Kelly 11 67 40 121 ll.O Walker 11 53 11 118 10.7 Fisher 11 58 23 Ill 10.1. Meola 11 56 13 101 9.2 ' Borgese 11 12 30 85 7.7 Smith · ll 34 7 65 5.9 ' Symonette 11 38 5 - 45 4.1 Rekucki 4 3 2 12 3.0 McLaughlin 6 3 4 8 1.3 - Degregory 6 1 4 6 1.0 Abba l 1 . 0 2 2.0 Coles 2 1 1 2 1.0 Mulvey 2 0 2 10 5.0 Union 11 342 191 817 74.3 Opponents u: 321 82 729 66.3 - Carnival! UNION HOCKEY STATISTICS THRU 12 GAMES Goals Churchill 12 Giallonardo 3 Judd· H Hinter berger 9 Jenkins 8 Marshall 9 Pahapill ll Kardos lO Hamilton 2 Wright 3 Ga~zola 4 O'Connell 2 Rankin 1 Matthewson 3 Bagley 1 Thomann l Sisler 0 Schmalz 0 Kaminski 1 .. Mins. Baker 220 . Baxter 500 WED. JAN. 28th: 8 p.m.: Varsity Westling vs. RPI·Aiumni Gym SAT. JAN. 31st: Penalt. Assists Pts. in Mins. 23 35 6 20 23 54 12 23 12 12 21 12 13 21 22 u· 20 8 9~ 20 6 6 16 2 6 8 8 2 5 lO 3 7 24 6 & 4 3 4 12 3 6 4 3 4 6 2 3 2 2 2 2 2 2 6 0 1 4 Saves Goals Against 65 3!54 251 - 2.88 -- . - - - 2:30 p.m.: Varsity swimming vs. Hobart- Alumni Gym 8:00 p.m.: Varsity Hockey vs: 'Brockport-Achilles ~ink

CONCORDIENSIS, Wednesday, Jan, 28,}976 Hoop rolls on by BILL HENSON In this McLuhanian era of cable t.v. and Home Box Office, the modem day basketball fan has only to flip on his telev.ision set in order to exhilarate in the seemingly endless and awesome supply of talent currently dominating hardwood courts and living rooms across the nation. On one station Earl the Pearl dazzles with spin dribbles and triple pumps. On another Adrian . Dantley ceaselessly muscles down the lane for basket after basket. Switch back and see Bill Bradley effortlessly toss in a twenty footer for two.· But there exists one crucial aspect of the game that the fan very rarely witnesses, no matter how diligently he applies himself - defense. Only if he is fortunate enough to catch an occasional Indiana or Princeton telecast can the armchair spectator appreciate one of the truly finer sides of the sport. And as infrequently as he beholds this style of play on television, rarer still is his chance to capture the expe~ience live. Thus, when he does it is a contest not soon to be forgotten. point margin. But then, clicking perfectly, the Union College basketball team exhibited the purest, most consistent brand ef defense their followers have had the pleasure of witnessing all season. For ten beautiful, u nin te rrupted (except sporadically by the refs) minutes the Union five played as one, jnstincively helping out one another, forcing Hamilton into traps, turnovers and charges, inciting their histrionic coach to stalk halfway to the lockerroom in frustration at one point, and in the end, limiting the Continentals to a mere five points while they- converted for 24. With slightly under six minutes remaining the score stood at 59- 35. Undefeated Hamilton had- tallied but one point per minute. With the reserves mopping up, the rout ceased at 69-51. The final box score could not show the true nature of the game, the true worth of the players. Individual statistics do not convey the affect of John Denio sticking to Continental quarterback Willie Jackson the entire game, like sap to bark, of Gary Borgese nagging John Klauber.g,, Hamilton's leading scorer, forcing him to dribble in circles g,oing nowhere. like a dog bent on catchin:g its own tail, or of the .priceless value ~ of Steve Kelly. as he adroitly handled the guard position when Joltn encountered foul trouble: But what the numbers do show us is nice to 1 o o k at too: AI Walker, 9-1·6 from the floor· and 22 points along with 9 'bounds, Joel Fisher, leading rebounder with ll, and of course the final margin of victory, l8 points. Saturday's triumph, preceded by Wednesday's road win over Wesleyan, 80-66, elevated the Dutchmen's record i-4 and their winning streak to three. Last night they risked that streak as they confronted a recently rejuvenated Albany State on the Great Danes' home court. This weekend Union hits the road for back-to-back matches with Hobart and Rochester. They return horne to face Kings Point a week from Saturday. Page 12 . / Such a game was last Saturday night's match-up in Memorial Fieldhouse. 9-0'~Hamilton College encountered the 6-4 Dutchmen of Union. It was a classic confrontation in an· ways; Hamilton · versus Union. the traditional rivalry, last season's victim seeking delicious revenge against repeated conqueror. It was all these and .tnore. But most of all it was the match-up of two vastly differing philosophies of the game, stated in their simplest terms, of offense vs. defense. Union wrestles tonight Symonette fingers over opponent Right from the outset the tone of the game . was established. H us ding and scrapping, the Garnet forced the disgruntled Continentals out of their offense and .into an individualistic brand of ball that led to forced shots and numerous turnovers. Still the Garnet, hampered by their habitual poor shooting in the early going and the referees' incessant prediliction for blowing their whistle recklessly, found th~mselves trailing by one, 19-18, wtth sixteen minutes transpired in the first half. But AI Walker singlehandedly remedied that, sticking jumpers from around the key and driving by his slower opponents to lay in twisting shots that catapulted the Dutchmen to · a 31-24 half-time advantage. For the first few minutes of the second half the teams merely exchanged hoops as the Garnet stubbornly maintained their seven UNION 69 FG FT T Denio 4 2-2 10 Fisher 5 2-2 12 Kelly 12 3-4 27 Borgese 4 2-2 10 Walker 1 3-4 5 Meola 1 0-1 2 Symonette 1 i-1 3 Totals: 28 13-16 69 ALBANY STATE 58 Cesare 1 0-0 2 Cavanah 6 3-3 15 Suprunowicz 3 2-2 8 Audi 2 0-0 4 Barker 4 2-2 10 Keane 5 2-5 12 Lanailar l 2-2 4 Royal 1 1·1 3 Totals: 23 12-15 58 ' The men's Volleyball Club, coached by alumnus Walt Tieson, finished second in a tournament at Albany JCC last Saturday.· Dave Dickinson's 100 mph spikes led the team to a 6-2 meet record. Pros draft Jeffries by Kevin Hallenback has had a good NEAL ADAM SCHWARTZ week as well in raisjp.g his,record With the majority of the season to 9-2-2.. After forfeiting four behind them, . Union Ccrllege's meets in a row in the heavy wrestling team hosts R.P.l. weight division Union presented tonight at 8 p.m. in Alumni Gym. · their first true heavyweight over This will be the first of only two the weekend in Charles Fenson. Craig Jeffries,_ Union Soccer's all time scoring leader and first All-American; was chosen in the college draft last week by the New York Cosmos of the North American Soccer League. The Cosmos; note<! for the signing of Pele last spring, made Jeffries their third round selection. home meets. As other winter sports have been enthusiastically supported, spectators of the same 'proportion would surely be appreciated by Union's matmen who have 80% of their matches on the road this year. The Dutchmen suffered their fourth defeat of the season, in a very close match to Kings Point last Saturday, by a score of 22-19. Union is now 9-4 overall. Union lost the last three weight classes after leading the meet 19-ll. Jim Sutton remains as the only undefeated wrestler on the team. Jim sports a 10-0-1 individual record with his first draw coming against Schrock of Kings Point. Co-captain aT om Everett and Mike Paquette both pinned their opponents over the weekend. Larry Dagastino, also a co- captain, has wrestled remarkably in the last two weeks to garner six straight wins and boost his overall record to ll-2. At 126 pounds STATS UNION FG FT T Borgese 3 2 8 Denio 1 2 4 Fisher 3 3 9 Kelly 2 0 4 Symonette 2 0 4 Meola 3 0 6 Fonz Walker 9 4 22 Smith '1 I 3 McLaughlin 0 I 1 Rekuccki 3 0 6 Totals 27 15 69 HAMILTON FG FT T Coombes 2 0 4 Guy 2 0 4 Other 3 5 11 Rybarczyk 2 0 4 Jackson -·- 3 4 10 3 9 Girls' by CHARLIE FLANAGAN Tire Union ·senior from Arlington, Virginia holds almost every offensive record. His 45 goal four year effort as well as this year's 17 goal pe,rfonhance w\11 firmly place Craig on the Union Record Books for a long time. (UnlesSc President Bonner can somehow do for Brazil what The bouncing Dutchwomen began their first intercollegiate basketball season on a sour note, dropping their first two games. In their first encounter ·Of .the season l Union paired off ·against tlte lassies from Williams, only to come out on the short end 55-19. Despite such a one-sided affair there was a bright spot for the Dutchwomen in t.he form of Donna Sockell. She netted 75% of the total team output; meshing fourteen .of the team's nineteen points. In their se~nd game played on home territory, against Cobleskill Tech, Union lost 67-36. Donna Sockell was the leading scorer, pumping in 19 points. Kathy Lett tossed in. six more for the hosts. Coach Weaver's contingent of hoopsters are still young and inexperienced. The potential is there, bq.t time is needed for · maturity and game toughness. he has done for Canada in refopning the immigration laws.) This year, more importantly, Craig was selected by the Nationacl Soccer Coaches Association as Uqion's first All- American candidate placing him · · on the honorable mention squad. J effrie.s has been named to the -- All-New York squad for the past three years. ·Noted for his intelligent and often crafty style of play, Craig will bring to the Cosmos a sophistication rare in American soceer players. We wish him the best of luck this spring. Klauberg 3 Mucltelli 3 3 9 Some teams on this year's schedule have been around for a while and are well drilled in the fundamentals of the game. Practice and game-type situations are required for this group of intercollegiate year.lings- to mold into the cooperative team they are capable of. This year's team members are as follows: Liz Yager, Donna Sockell, Cathy Reals, Gloria ·Jones, \Roomie\ Bateman, Kathy Lett, Gina Pugliese, Ann Bowden, Sam Golden, Marian Baciewicz, Ann Markowitz, Anita Cunningham, and manager Debra Schwartz. Jeffries sits contemplating future as a pro .

ve in us ga to he ey f us be m ge w a IS ts '-· 1 : f . r . ·r . ~· I I . ., ' ' \ . .\ .. • • I··· f• I ;, I • \~ ,, j, • •·. c. ' •l • f) .. .. . .. ' ;-; \ t/, . ~~: \ . ·l '• ·. ~r ~· • ' . ,oz: . ..- r_,..J , The Union College Black Student's Alliance Newspaper Vol. 4, No. :4, Editor's Prerogative This week's prerogative deals with a thousand year-old secret. So all of you out there just sit back, relax, aro.d READ! This may sound a little bit ridiculous, but what would you say if I told you that the only way to hold on - is to let go? That's exactly what I said, let go so you can be free, relieved, and relaxed. That is the mystique behind a true religious experieRce, when we \get happy,\ and give our troubles to God. Religious awakenings aren't the only way one can let go. Other desirable avenues include sex and sports. These definitely give us release from day to day pressures. However, the problem with religion, sex, and sports, as vehicles of release, is that the release is only temporary. We can really feel horrible about ourselves even after some fantastic lovemaking. Even after a good game of basketball, we can return to a depressed state of mind. In essence, if we don't strive at releasing the unharmonious thoughts and attitudes which fester within, mere physical release will not do the job. Letting go is really a matter of attitude. Basically, it gets down to the mind, which often in literature. has been compared to a garden. A garden in which any thought we plant negatively or positively, consciously or subconsciously - grows. Magnificent flowers of beautiful colors and unique design, along with worrisome weeds and vicious vines of the most depressing description develop in our garden. Our gardens, slowly but surely, produce mangled weeds of pain, pressure, financial setbacks, unsupportive friendship, and unnoticed love. The difficulty in dealing with these weeds is our inability to notice them until they are the size of trifids! Already these weeds are beginning to affect the way we. think, feel, and act. To make it short and sweet, our personalities become slightly warped. Before we can start the process of removing these weeds, we must identify those trouble-giving thoughts and attitudes that are spoiling our gardens. Now comes the use of those good ole' Freudian defense mechanisms. You know, rationalization, projection - all the ones that place the blame on another individual or object. An attitude like this only transfers the blame, but does nothing for the pain. Unattended gardens can result in tensions greater than any mind and body can endure. Yet, for each weed we pull out, we must replace it with a flower so as to insure against the appearance of another weed. This simply means that when we are releasing friends, but especially lovers, it is important to picture them happy at being released, as well as picturing ourselves happy for releasing them. If this is not done, there is the possibility of planting seeds of bitterness for the unhappiness that they have caused us, or more truthfully, that we have allowed them to cause us! We definitely don't need any more bitterness, or unhappiness growing in our gardens; and by picturing ourselves and others happy, we are planting seeds of future happiness. It is an extremely difficult task to learn to let go pain and failure, and replace them with health and success; but the reward, in terms ·of happiness and peace of mind, is worth any discomfort. You may not believe it, but all of us are in the process of becoming more perfect every day.The end result depends on the amount of work we put i'nto it. We have known all along how to make ourselves the persons we want to be, we just needed to be reminded. Marilyn Vannessa Becton Perspective Changes He~ds A new term brings new changes all over the campus, and Perspective is not immune to these changes. The change has taken place in the form of a· new editor. Ms. Gail Vanessa Chatman, a native of Newark, New Jersey. As the outgoing editor of the best newspaper in the tri-city area, 1 can only say that the quality of Perspective will increase with Ms. Chatman at its helm. Ulednesday, Jan. 28, 1976 Bonner Speaks on Minority ReeruitJDent Donnell Undenrood (I) Assistant Dean of Atlmhllom/Coonllnator of Mbiority Recruitment and President Thomas Bonner find time to pose for Perspective cameras. In the past few years at Union College talk of an increase in minority enrollment has run rampant. What better way to verify this statement than by going to the head man himself, Dr. Thomas Bonner, president of Union College. Perspective: At the present time there are currently 75 minority students (about 2. 7%) enrolled at Union College; are you satisfied with this figure? If not, why? Dr. Bonner: No, 1 don't think it's a fair proportion of the student body; 1 don't think it's fair as far as opportunity and access for minority students; I don't think it's fair for the student body as a whole to be unrepresentative of a cross- section of the population. Here in New York State I happen to know the percentage of minority students in institutions of higher education falls near 16 or 17%, which is about proportionate to the population of New York State, whereas ours is below 5%. Perspective: You said yourself that the number of minority students is not well representative of New York State. Do you think it's Union's fault for not recruiting enough or is it that minorities don't know about Union College? Because, personally, I'd never heard of this place prior to coming. President Bonner: 1 think that there are a number of reasons, and you've hit on a couple of them already. 1 think that it's a general problem. Union is not as well-known or as visible as many other colleges that are no better than Union is. I think that the location in upstate New York, in an area where the minority population is relatively small, probably is another factor that tends to decrease the recruitment of minority students. At least some aren't comfortable living in an area where the white population is dominant. However, the main factor, I think, is that Black students (minorities) tend to come much more heavily from low income families. And if there is any kind of discrimination, it is against low income students. Basically, it is a non-racial issue but due to the inability of some students to pay. there is a type of discrimination. The amount of money available 'for scholarships and financial aid is inadequate to recruit all of the students Union would need in order tcprovidenot only a balance in a racial or ethnic sense but in a . . socioeconomic sense. Perspective: Does that mean that Union can't afford to recruit minority students? Bonner: .Well ... it means that we recruit as many as we can with the resources we do have and put together the amount of money that the college takes out of its own budget, put it together with the state money, tuition assistance programs and federal money - we place all of these together and it is possible, and also with loans, we can make it possible for a Financial Aid Picture Bleak, But- Due to the economic slump the whole country is facing, the grass is not particularly greener on the nation's college campuses. And for minority students, the majority of whom are from low- income families, the green which flourished for them a couple of years ago, has turned into sodder. The number of Black applicants admitted to predominantly white institutions of higher learning is on the decline. And new priorities in effect by the government, private foundations, and individual institutions, have either drastically clipped the funds, or diverted the flow, from minority concerns into other areas. Between 1964 and 1972, at least 60 educational bills were passed . which pumped federal funds into colleges for the construction of expanded facilities in both Black a11d white colleges to meet the onslaught of students who entered college in record numbers. Much of that money was earmarked also for research grants and salaries for thousands of faculty members; for loans and grants to students; and for programs to aid disadvantaged and low-income students. Private foundation funds, which tend to follow the federal dollar in investment areas, also gave money to such programs, and increased the coffers of institutions considerably. Now it appears that Black education is no longer a profit-making venture. However, one of the signs of the times is the appearance at a number of colleges and universities of the \no-need\ scholarship or grant. These awards are not made on a bas~ of how much a student might need them. but because of a student's special talent or on his academic performance and other criteria. At the present time, the basis for awarding most scholarships, grants, fellowships, and loans, is the financial need of the applicant. However, if the pendulum swings in the opposite direction, with more and more awards being given on a no-need basis, then many Black students (who for any number of reasons could not achieve academic excellence in high school, or who have won academic scholarships which are not substantial enough to cover a good deal of college costs) will certainly suffer the consequences. Despite the grim prospects. scholarship funds are available. Students should apply to individual institutions for financial assistance, and to various scholarship organizations.

' ah v~ :ir :rll at lal at 'ry in us ga to rrg he ld tly rrg ey ~e f us be ISS m he m ge :d :d m n w lg 1e :ir at JS er at •P :h ic 'R 1e ·d is lr :n ld ls le ts The Union Collitae Black Studen:t\s Alliance Newspaper Vol. 4, No. :4, Editors-Prerogative This week?s prerogative deals with a thousand year-old secret. So aU of you out there just sit back, relax, and READ! This may sound a little bit ridiculous, but what would you say-if l told you that the only way to hold on -.· is to let go? That's exactly what I said, let . go so you cali be free, relieved, and relaxed. That is the mystique behjnd a true religious experience, when we \get happy,\ and give our troubles to God. Religious awakenings aren't· the only way one can _let go. Other desirable avenues include sex and sports. These definitely give us release from day to day pressures. However, the problem with religion, sex, and. sports, as vehicles of release, is that the release is only temporary. We can really. feel horrible about ourselves even after some fantastic lovemaking. Even after a good game of basketball, we can return to a depressed state of mind. In essence, if we don't strive ·at releasing the unharmonious thoughts and attitudes which fester within, mere physical release will not do the job. Letting go is really a matter of attitude. Basically, it gets down to the mind, which often in literature, has been compared to a garden. A garden in which any thought we plant negatively or positively, consciously or subconsciously - grows. Magnificent flowers of beautiful colors and unique design, along with worrisome weeds and vicious vines of the most depressing description develop in our garden. Our gardens, slowly but surely, produce mangled weeds of pain, pressure, financial setbacks, unsupportive friendship, and unnoticed love. The difficrilty in dealing with these weeds is our inability to notice them until they ·are the size of trifids! Already these weeds are beginning to affect the way we. think, feel, and act. To make it short and sweet, our personalities become slightly warped. Before we can start the process of removing these weeds, we must identify those trouble-giving thoughts and attitudes that are spoiling_ our gardens. . Now comes the use or\those .good ole' Freudian defense mechanisms. You know, rationalization, projection - all the ones that place the blame on another individual ()t object. An attitude like this only transfers the blame, but does nothing for the pain. Unattended gardens can result in tensions greater than any mind and body can endure. Yet, for each weed we pull out, we must replace it with a flower so as to insure against the appearance ·of another weed. This simply means that when we are releasing friends, but especially lovers, it is important to picture them happy at being released, as well as picturing ourselves happy for releasing them. If this is not done, there is the possibility of planting seeds of bitterness for the unhappiness that they have caused us, or more truthfully, that we have allowed them to cause us! We definitely don't need any more bitterness, or unhappiness growing in our gardens; and by picturing ourselves and others happy, we are planting seeds of future happiness. It is an extremely difficult task to learn to let go pain and failure, and replace them with health and success; but the reward, in terms of happiness and peace of f!lind, is worth any discomfort. You may not believe it, but all of us are in the process of becoming more perfect every day.The end result · depends on the amount of work we put into it. We have known all along how to make ourselves· the persons we want to be, we just needed to be reminded. Marllyn Vannessa Becton Perspective Change~ He~ds A new term brings new changes all oVer the campus, and Perspective is not immune to these changes. The change has taken place in the form of a· new editor .. Ms. Gail Vanessa Chatman, a native of Newark, New Jersey. As the outgoing ·ed-itor of the best newspaper in the tri-city area, 1 can only say that the FJ.Uality of Perspective will increase with Ms. Chatman at its helm. ! ~· HVednesday, Jan. 28, 1976 Bonner Speaks on Minority Reeruitment Uaderwood (I) Assistant Dean of A.dmltlllons/Coonllaator of Minority Recruitment and President Thomas Bonner find time to pose for Perspective cameras. -...·: ..:11 ' Iri the past few years at Union College talk of an increase in minority enrollment has run rampant. What better way to verify this statement than by going to the head man himself, Dr. Thomas Bonner, president of Union College. P~rspective: At the present time thetti are currently 75 minority students (about 2. 7%) enrolled .at Union College; are you sati~fied with, this figure? If no(, why? Or. Bor)Jler: No, I don't think it's a fair proportion of .the student body; I don't think it's fair as far as. opportunity and access for minority students; I don't think it's fair for the student body as a whole to be unrepresentative of a cross- section of the population: Here in New York State I happen to know the percentage of minority students in institutions of higher education falls near 16 or 17%, which is about proportionate to the population of New York State, whereas ours is below 5%. Perspective: You said yourself that the number of minority · students is not well representative of New York State. Do you think it's Union's fault for not recruiting enough or is it that minorities don't know about Union College? Because, personally, I'd never heard of this place prior to coming. ,. President Bonner: I think that there are a number of reasons, and you've hit on a couple of them already. I think that it's a general problem. Union is not as well-lmown or as visible as many other colleges that are no better than Union is. I think that the location in upstate New York, in an area where the minority population is relatively small, probably is another factor that tends to decrease the recruitment- of minority students. At least some a~en't comfortable living in an area where the white population is dominant. However, the main factor, I think, is that Black stpdents (minorities) tend to come much more heavily from low income -families. And if there is any kind of discrimination, it is against low income students. Basically, it is a non-racial issue but due to the inability of some students to pay, there is a type of discrimination. The amount of money available •• 1 for scholarships and financial aid is inadequate to .recruit all of the students Union would need in order tcprovidenot only a balance in a racial or ethnic sense but in a socioeconomic sense. Perspective: Does that mean that Union can't afford to recruit minority students? Bonner: .Well ... it means that we recruit as many as we can with the resources we do have and put together the -amount of money that the college takes out of its own budget, put it together with the state money, tuition assistance programs and federal money -- we place all of these together and it is possible, and also with loans, we can make it possible for a Financial Aid Picture Bleak, But- Due to the economic slump the whole country is facing, the grass is not particularly greener on the nation's college campuses. And for minority students, the majority of whom are from low- income families, the green which flourished for them a couple of years ago, has turned into sadder. The number of .Black applicants admitted to predominantly white institutions of higher learning is on the detline. And new priorities in effect by the government, p'rivate foundations, and individual institutions, have either drastically clipped the funds, or diverted the flow, from minority concerns into other areas. Between 1964 and 1972, at least 60 educational bills were passed . which pumped federal funds into colleges for the construction of expanded facilities in both Black apd white colleges to meet the. onslaught of students who entered .. college in record numbers. Much of that money was earmarked also for research grants and salaries for thousands of faculty members; for loans and grants to students;. and for programs to aid disadvantaged and low-income students. Private foundation funds, which tend to follow the federal dollar in investment areas, also gave money to such programs, and increased the coffers of institutions considerably. Now it appears that Black education is no longer a profit-making venture. However, one of the signs of the times is the appearance at a number of colleges and universities of the \no-need\ scholarship or grant. These awards are not made on a bas~ of how much a student might need them. but because of a student's special talent or on his academic performance and other criteria. At the present time, the basis for awarding most scholarships, grants, fellowships, and loans, is the financial need of the applicant. However, if the pendulum swings in the opposite direction, with more and more awards being given on a no-need basis, then many Black students (who for any number of reasons could not achieve academic excellence in high school, or who have won academic scholarships which are not substantial enough to cover a good deal of college costs) Will certainly suffer the consequences. Despite the grim prospects, scholarship funds are available. Students should apply to individual institutions for financial assistance, and to various scholarship organizations.

PageB PERSPECTIVE, Wednesday. Jan. 28, 1976 WHO 1 ·1WE ARE Perspective Staff Editor-in-chief ....................... Marg,n_y~nnessa B~loQ. Cultural Editor .......................... ;: .. ;;,;sad,a,ma :N·~· IJ,oms Photography Editor ................. WiltiaJ:t! Arnold- Coll~R( G~neral Writers ............................ Gloria Vanita 'Jones Gail Vanessa Chatman, Ana Logy, Donnell Underwood, Carlos Hill, and Jerry Lee Special Thanks to Dr. Thomas Bonner ...._ Special, Special Thanks to Smirnoff, Old Mr. Boston, Vermouth and lots of Sprite. FareweU For those of you who are This individual is definitely a unaware, this will be the last time .controversy unto herself, Ms. Ana that my name appears as editor of Logy. Her ingenious literary Perspective. Yes, my dear reading talent and dazzling wit certainty audience, my tenure as editor has raised quite a few eyebrows in the reached its end. It is at this time racist community . of Union that I would li~e to thank all College, and everywhere else .. those wonderful people who made There is one thing that Perspective possible. definitely gave Perspective that A big thanks to Gloria. Those extra bit of class, that being the lonely walks to the printers at the hi-weekly segments of Black crack of dawn definitely built up History, deftly written by Ms. your calf muscles for the Sadama N. Horns (it looks better basketball team. How can· I ever on a Puerto Rican). Private joke, repay you? I know, I think I'll folks! bake you some of my world- I can only repay Ms. Gail renowned chocolate chip cookies. Chatman with a $2.50 special and ·All those wonderful, lots of love for her never-ending marvelous, creative pieces of support of me during my tenure photography that Perspective as editor. I only pray that I can readers enjQy every other week d6 the same for you. can be attributed to Doink, uh, I Hats off to the entire Union mean William Collins, and, if a College campus, for giving me the certain individ~al doesn't object, fuel necessary for the articles in Bill deserves a hug and a kiss. Perspective. This lady definitely deserves And. special, speCial thanks to some type of accolades. Who am Mr. and Mrs. Willie Thomas' I referring to, Sisterly Love Becton. For some time in April of herself. Her advice to the 1954, a brilliant, bright, lovelorn, frigid, impotent, sterile, intelligent, witty, beautiful, warm, homosexual, transexual, misfits, and wonderful child was freaks, and straights definitely conceived, ME. And without helped these individuals through Marilyn Vannessa Becton, where hard times. ·· would Perspective be? Loretta Walker College needs to increase its effort in_ this regards. The stuaertt body doesn't reflect a realistic view of the National Population. Thi~ may be due in part. to the - Head of Reference. Science Librarian ' Educational Background · B.S. of Math from Howard L'nivcr~ity, M.A. of Library Science from SUNY of Albany, Enrolled in Master Program at St. Rose ineffective recruiting policies in the past. As students come to Union, hopefully that will help· increase and (!ncourage the continuing increase in the number of students. Assoc .. Prof. of Pol. Sci. - Educational Background ~ B.A. from Upper Iowa College, M.A. and Ph.D. from U11iversity of Iowa Would like to see the College do more, Also would like to see more minorities in gradu_a!e schools but this is unlikely cause of the ~teady state of the Celleg_e_ i!!. the li'!_e ofjob opportunities. represented minorities Assoc. Coord. Sheila Weav·er of Rec. Sports and Intramural Programs Educatienal Background ~ B.S. from Drake University, Grad. on on campus Assistantship, M.A. from . Kent few numbers of Blacks on campus and the so jew that are Athletic program-: There is a need to have a greater effort to generate more in-- all fields: teaching, students, speak.~~·_entertainments, etc. __ - Asst. . Prof. G~orge H. Smith Prof. of Biological Sciences Educational Background - B.S. from Bethune-Cookman College, M.S. from Virginia St., Ph.D. from University of Vit:ginia. lot needs to be done in going out and leoking for GOOD, Black students. The- College is putting forth a good enough effort. ·

Today a college education is a realist~c .. goal _for all. In many cases 1t ts assumed that going to a · college or university after the succe§_sf~l . co~pletion of high school 1s trievttably the intended goal of the individual. However, as . ca!l be determined by history, the nght to attend college for all wa&. an idea which was almost obsolete in bmerica during the seventeen and eighteen hundreds. The American colonists ·were, as a general rule, indifferent to the education -of blacks and permitted them to rem·ain uneducated and unenlightened for they wanted workers, not scholars. Many records showed that blacks Were incapable of-even signing their names to legal documents and petitions .. Moreover, the education pr~p.osed in 1776 had its goal of rehgwn and saving souls. This was the task of missionaries first by the Society for ' the Prop.agation of the Gospel in Foreign Parts, the Associates of Doctor Bray in London and dedicated individuals. Assistance in tjle .education of blacks was mostly from the mission organizations and blacks own effQrts as black societie&. A peak in this respect was reached when action was taken in the first Convention of Abolition Societies t~~t b~a,cks should participate in ctvil nghts \as rapidly as their education would permit.\ The first black American to graduate from a college w~s Edward A.· Jones who graduated from Amherst Coll~ge in 1826, then went to West Africa and founded Forbay ~ollege in Sierra Leone. .Jones graduated eleven days prior to John B. Russwu.rm's graduation from Bowdoin College and thereby Jones became the first '•• Afro-American college graduate. Although relatively few.scho\@s were, ~stablished · during the 180~ s, and despite the legal and soctal problems against the education of blacks, many blacks had learned to read and write .and had become educated persons. PERSPECTIVE, Wedne$da~! ~an. 28. 1976 PageC \~ I The ol~ings, \There is mere iri the man than in the land\ and \more in books than in looks\ have proved themselves to be trut~s i?- American life. Nothing so_ 1llustrat~s this like the life stories of many black ArriericaHs, who were self-educated and self- ~ade. Tl!,ey were the ones who worke~ while their companions slept. As defective as education may have been at this time it did achieve some results. ~~ 1870, three percent of .the black population of the Southern states attended schools. By 1898, the number had grown to 18 percenf. The number of literate blacks rose from 30 percent in 1880 to 42 percent in 1890. Most of au· the Con~titutional Conventions i~ the southel'n states provided for systems of public education. This , was a new process in this part of the nation, and many black state repres~ntat~ves. _were responsible for this actwn. Atlanta University was founded in 1865, Fisk University at Nashv.ille, Tenn., in 1866, and Howard University was chartered by Cotigress- in 1867. Today, we can see how these figures have risen d(amatically. Although blacks are still less likely to be attending college, this gap is being narrowed. Between 1960 and 1973 the number of ~lacks enrolled in college mcreased by approximately 540,000, a gain of 370% which raised the ratio of blacks . to whites from I in 20 to I in 12. Blacks are also likely to attend public and junior (2 year) colleges and to go to school part-time. Judging from these figures it could be predicted 'that blacks in the future may have even a greater opportunity to attend a college or university after high school thap ever ·before. Also, it .may be said, that blacks are ~~reaware now than. in any other time in history that a college education is important and that these figures need to be more equitable · so that · the reality of attending a college may he even more realistic. Don't M·· · ak· .'e Pro - · · . mises. •••.•• . ') \Dem dat got shall get, dem element in this endeavor· was the that not shall lose.\ That ph.rase student. Recruited mostly from prl)bably holds true for a small ill-preP.~tred high schools, they set private school such as Union · o~t believing in quality education, more than any other situation. htg~er degrees, and learning in an During the latter portion of the ,environment which was hoped to sixties, and earlier portions of the be more conducive to the task. seyenties, American colleges for They entered colleges and mtxed reasons began to recruit universities -fn droves, and many minority students to fill their left the same way. ]hose that tanks - or at least make up a stayed were .. rewarded\ with representative sampling of the financial aid, pats on the back, population. With sanctioning and jobs upon graduation. from the public ana private Eventually, there seemed to be a sectors, the need for a better lessening of committment on the education of minorities was fully part of institutions, individuals, ~ndorsed, and appearvd to be on and the social political 1ts way to' reality. organizations. It is this lessening The problems faced by the which has effected many students students were fierce; and some today, along with alternatives to a would agree insurmountable .. The college education and the parents were not ready and did reneging on the part of other not know what to expect. What colleges. With many colleges, they did hope for was an however,. the commitment was opportunity for their offspring to placed elsewhere. If the new- successfully compete with the found co.m.mitments are. to carry children of bosses, landlords, loan .over va~ldtty, the old promises managers, and lead!!tS in .industry\. should f1rst be carried out. Black and other minority students Students should seize the were sent to college with nothing opportunitv to impress upon more than hope !lnd a large dose of mond support. colleges, expecially those that have made the commitment, to make good the promises of the sixtie~. In the case of minority recruitment and retention, it means continued and more importantly, at this time, stepped up support of those ·people and progra':fls about the job of mcreasmg the nurnber of minority students at this institution. Union ~as proven its ability to stay m ftont as a small private liberal arts college. The importance of past commitments would seem to be a matter of course for an institution pushing forth to insure that it will be around 180 years because of its contribution to e d uc: at i. on, e spec i a II y a contnbutton where it is needed the most. Nothing short of a firm and pronounced action on the part of the administration, faculty, students, and staff, Black and ~hite, male and female, will see to 1t that that promise becomes a reality. · What the schools expected :was much more uncertain. Many actuaUy cared to improve the quality of education for minority students. The schools were not certain how the Blacks would be bettered, except that now they would experience the same .. component\ that pumped out so many bright, anxious and productive wh.ite stude~ts for cent~ries. Some were simply bo:wtng to pressure by th.e students and society in general: others needed the government funds that were made available to those institutions that made an effort to improve the .condition of minorities in higher education !od~y. _.For the mo.st part, the mstttutton \dealing\ with the mip.ority situati:QJ.l left it up to B1acks that •:Were hired to administer programs and counselling setvices, One + One = $30,000?????? The final and most crucial by GLORIA V. JONES The latest rumor flying around campus these past two weeks is that the Ta,x Committee is cutting all. student activity ,budgets 15% Thts move makes the Tax <;ommittee very shakey in the hght that just last week they dared to announce in Concordiensis that a .. supposedly\ $30,000.00 was to be kept as an emergency fund. After thi~ deliberate (?) lie was told, then they announced that they had overspent. Now Tax Committee, you are supp_o~ed . to be fhe best(?) quahfted m the handling of rponey so why are you F. up'? Maybe you should take a couple of courses in Budget Management and Financial - Planning and Ma~agement since you definitely don t know what you are doing. One small example of what 1 am referring to is the fact that you turned over to the athletic department the Golf Club but you kept and .added the Outing, Rugb_Y. Ski, Volleyball, Table Ten!liS, and Bowling Clubs. What's the difference? A sport is a Sport! That . is only a small example. There are bigger ones. A word of suggestion: when you get ready to elect new members, try to get people who have handled budgets before. Maybe they can do. a better job than what you are dotng. At this point, I settle for Boss Tweed at the head of the Tax Committee. Bonner P~ge A ·Continued from considerable number of low . . I mcome students to come to both on .a.nd around c~mpus. Union Cc;>llege. It's the same problem every private college has with increasing competition with public schools, where the tuition is $600 a year ... So, I think that that's a major factor. Now as fa·r as the Admissions Office, there's \'no college policy, out the~e's a ~incere desire and effort to try to tncrease the number of minority applicants. Perspective: Well, what's the effort'? Previously I've talked to different . people, Donnell Underwood, Dean Smith, and Jay Sh~pe, they say there's things happenmg, but personally I haven't seen anything done. And for me it isn't legitimate or real unless I can see it. Bonn;er: Well, I don't see it any more directly than you do, in the sense that I'm on the road and aU I can do is look at figures of the Union students that are admitted and it seems to be a definite _increase in minorities at Union College. Perspecti.ve: Do you think that it's fair to actively recruit minority students when a large number of the current students are <lissatisfied with the academic and social life here? Dr. Bonner: I think that that's a good question. I think it's important that prospective: stud.ents have a chance to talk With current students and thereby get an aooraisal of the situation President Bonner· went on to ·· say that no student should be misled about the racial situation at Union but that he feels that Union College definitely has something to offer all students. In responding to the question of the necessity for a Black Studies Program, h.e says that in the I.atter 60's that many Black Studies Pl-ograms were instituted across the country but in recent years fhis trend has been reversed for economic reasons as well as a lack of interest. HQWever, Perspective responded by saying that the majority of Black related courses at Union are generally weft attended. Perspective reporters were somewhat pleased with President B?nne_r'.s interest in recruiting mmonttes but particularly by his final statement, ••1' will personally support the efforts that ·are unde~way to increase minority ~ecrUttment, and I'm very much mterested in seeing the ·college ·improve the environment on campus for all students but particularly minority students. With all the dynamic faculty and administrators that Union possesses, and with Dr. Bonner personally supporting efforts underway in recrliitmertt, the .percentage of minority students should definitely increase in the near future. ONLY TIME WILL TELL!! . Come on now Keith! Fresh~an Ke~!l_Moore - \I highly recommend Union College, not just for a Black or White stude'!t, but for the DILIGENT student.\

PageD PERSPECTJVP, Wednesday, Jan. 28, 1976 Poetry Black is the color of my skin Black is the color of my kin Black is how I was brought up to think POETRY Two Po.ems by ·Jayne Cortez I Like You Black they say will be the cause of my life to sink Black is what I want to be Black is knowmg that being called \Brother or Sister\ IFE NIGHT Big beautiful bronze man your love is as close When I was mad. at you tbe otb~r day, I felt sorrow and pity inside. I thought I had something to say. But everytime I would try to say it, It woud just make me cry. I tried to be mad at you but I' couldn't 'cause I like youso much. I tried not to linen to you but I couldn't 'cause I Uke you so much. I tried not to cry ~cause of you but I couldn't 'cause I like you so much: TAMARA MIXTURES Yellow pius Red is Orange Yellow pius Blue is Green Yellow plus more Blue is ~till Green We all understand this heduse- this we've all seen Hlack plus White is Black Black plus more White is still Black We don't always understand this cause some of us is tl:ying to cross the track In other words that 99% white in you my marl don't even get you over the line Your light skin you can't change. SO - BLACKENIZE MIND llTAMU YOUR Then why can't my Blackness set me free The white man said \No; you are a slave. For that is the road for you I have paved.\ No!-- I want to be free That is what my Blackness means to me If I must fight, then let it be For my body and soul'. just has to be free Gloria BlaekMen Black-Men the essence of Black women's existence Black men are the gifts of uniqueness rendered unto tnis world Black men are clothed in an array of spicy, festive colors. . . . They are the constant portrayal of seasons Black men walk with wisdom Their insights ·moisten the roots of knowledge (like rain nourishing the soil) Their humor radiates brightness • (like when sunshine- bathes every morn) Their understanding cuddles and caresses our inner souls 1 (like the swelling night wraps the world in a blanket) Black Men We, Black women see you as MEN a statue never to crumple, a wind never to collapse, a ray of sunshine never to frown, an ocean tide never to be tamed. Black Men never let your image falter or fade. Continue, strive for what you want and never cling steadfastly to the pitfalls of the past. ~ .. ¥ ¥- 1f ¥ .... lf..... ¥ ¥- Cling on to life and let it not -fie Happy Birthday January il pass you by in a whisk of hurry Babies! ic -ft Marilyn Becton, Myra Value things which soothe the soul, ~ Bobea, Sadama Horns, Jerry ir bathe the heart, and revive the mind. iC Lee, Jeff Richardson and .. Always be true, there are no imitations of you. ~ Raymond Walker. ire for you are .... BLAC& MEN How old are you now? .. -:: \Ciairol Covers the Grey\ ic ASEBA .-r*•••••••••• To the occupants of Hickok: - ------- FLASH: Millionaire \partners\ Stanley O'Brien and Kevin Moore have recently purchased a LARGE sum of stock in the CRISCO corporation. What is the great interest in oil? If you see a 2-legged cockroach, step on it! Good game, Flex! ->/:' • ' ' President Bonner, where's my letter? Hey, \crip\! How's the knee? Recover soon. does not refer to any member of a monastery or convent. Black is knowing that the ·asoul Train., is not a train headed for the capitol of Korea ... And that getting on the goodfoot has nothing to do with being cripple. Hiack is knowing ahat lady Day refers to the lady of the blues and not to any day set aside for women. Black is knQwing that Super Fly is not the cousin of Atom Ant. Black is knowing that the Ali Shuffle has nothing to <lo with de~ling cards. Hlack is knowing· that .. bad\ is really very good ... And that \heavy... cannet be measured by a cup or a spoon. Blac~ is knowing trnit \Black Ivory\ is net on a piano ... Am! the Dramatics is not a th~.. .. pian art. Black is knowing that a colored person must be one colored with crayons... because it certainly can't refer to you. Black is not having to define Blackness ... but knowing that you are. UTA.MU as the life-death shrill from old folks in paradise young as beginning rains in Guinea-Bissau and strong like a miUion quivering frog-throats wailing through the night wells of lfe How deep this time of us dancing beneath Mozambique against moon confessing flames bouncing baby heart-beat ocean tears of mud to a strilnge snake of a new make arking the brain neck of our song Black .... or midnight, jet. ebony. sienna. sepia. gold, sable . charcoal. tan, sorrel!. auburn. chestnut. hron7e, copper. cinnamon. russet. chocolate. walnut. cocoa, even heige ... and many many more! SO LONG My man loved me 50 much he wanted to kill me cause he loved me so good he waHted to die cause he loved m!? witho1:1t sorrow so sad wi·thout tears he loved me to kil:l to die to cry so much he wanted to scream cause i loved him too much i drank his tears loved him too much i ate his strength loved him too much i stole his joy i loved him to drink to eat to steal cause we loved so much 50 good to love to love so long to love so long ESSENCE: SEPTEMBER WE CAN'T ALI. LOOK ALIKE .... NOW CAN WE FREE Subseriptions to Perspective Bemanl Cuey, actor extraordlnare, alon1 with Ids faithful do_g Thor. Special thanks to Thor for Professor Bernard A. Carey the fertilizer you placed in the has been awarded his laundry room. The \grass\ is doctorate for his extensive much \greener.\ research and seminar in Sex Education. For persons wishing Perspective mailed to their home or place of business. Mail this clipping to· To all those who are gifted M • ·G v c h t with, inspired to, or skilled ISS II II a man with any literary, journalist or poetic ability, please submit BOX • 0274 your double-spaced, typewritten articles to Gail U • c II Chatman, Hickok room-205 n10n 0 e ge (Box 0274) by mfidnight of _ Feb. 8. Schenectady, N.Y. 12308 Subscriber: NAME _______ _ ADDRESS ____ ..--- _______ City· State· Zip ______ _ OWl ,_ OR TYR) ~------•-••------------------------------•••••••••••••-••-·-------------------------••••-•w- Some Useful Addresses J. National Achievement Scholarship Program For Outstanding Students 990 Grove Street Evanston, Ill. 60201 2. Delta Sigma Theta Scholarship Board 1814 M St., N.W. Washington, D. C. 20036 3. Whitney M. Young Jr. Grant Fund for Educatiora and Economics American Bankers Association 1100 Connecticut Ave., N.W. Washington, D. C. 20036 4. Parents' Confidential Statement College Scholarship. Service Box 176 • Princeton, New Jersey 08540 5. Family Financial Statement, The American College Testing _P!ogram, Financial Aid Operations P.O. Box JOOO Iowa City, Iowa 52240 6. National Scholarship Service and Fund for Negro St11dents 1776 Broadway New York, N.Y. 10019 7. American College Testing Program P.O. Box 808 Iowa City, Iowa 52240 8. College Entrance Examination Board Box 1540 Berkeley, California 94701 or 9. College Entrance Examination Board Box 2800 Princeton, New Jersey D8S40 10. United Negro College Fund 22 E. 54th St. New York, N.Y. 10022 I .;:'1 . . ' ' ~- ~· [ r I . ,, The upo • boa ~ and dire cur1 day The hoi~ ap-p fon stat ll ego •• of pro • dev fou cori # pla: • int rec1 sati ~ the du~ ~· lew • nu tha !<- pat .. in to • COt \ sin o.p1 :,,,,:.·i·

PageD PERSPECTIV.§. Wedn_esday, Jan. 28, 1976 . , . .... - : Two·Po.ems by ·Jayne Cortez POETRY Black is the color of my skin ' Black is the color of my kin Black is how I was brought up to thtnk I Like You Black they say will be the cause of my life to 'sink_ IFE NIGHT When I was mad. at :you the other day,. I felt sorrow and pity inside. I thought I ba~ something to say. But everytime I would try to say it, It woud just make me cry~ I tried to be mad at you but requldn't .'caus~ I like y6u.80 mueh. I tried not t~ listen to you but I couldn~t'cause I like you so much. · .. I tried not 'tn cry 'eause of you but I coul~'t 'cause I like you so much: . -TAMARA MIXTURES Yellow plus Red is Orange Yellow plus Blue is Green Yellow plus more Blue is still Green We all understand this because. this we.'ve all seen Black plus White is Black Black plus more White is still Black We don't always understand this cause ·s.onie of us is u:ying to cross the track In other words that 99% white in you my mari don't even ~et you over the line Your hght skin.you can't ehange. SO . BLACKENlZE MIND LITAMU YOUR Black is what I want to be · Then why can•t n;tY Blackness set me free The white man said ''No; you are a slave. For that is the road for you I have paved.\ No! -- I want to be free That is what my Blackness means to me If I must fight, then let it. be For my body and soul' . just has to be free Gloria ' Black Men Black Men the essence of Black women's ·' existence Black men are · the gifts of uniqueness rendered unto tl)is world Black men are clothed in an array of spicy,. festive colors. . . • They are the constant portrayal of seasons ' · Black men walk with wisdom Their insights 'moisten the roots of knowledge (like rain nourishing the soil) Their humor radiates brightness .. (like when 'sunshine- batlies every mom) Their understanding cuddles and· caresse~ our inner souls t (like the swelling night wraps the world in a blanket) \Black Men We, Black women see you as MEN a statue never to crumple, a wind never to collapse, a ray of sunshine never to frown, an ocean tide never to· be tamed. Black Men never let your image falter or fade. Continue, strive for what you want and never cling steadfastly to the pitfalls of the past. _., ¥ ¥ ¥ 1f ¥- .. ¥- +... Jf. 1f.. Cling on to life and let it not . ~ BHab~PY 1 Birthday January 1l' pass you by in a whisk of hurry a 1es. il · -i' Marilyn Becton, Myra ....., Value things which soothe the soul, -iC Bobea, Sadama Horns, Jerry \\' bathe the heart, and revive the mind . • Lee, Jeff Richardson and ! Always be true, there are no imitations of yoa_ -tl Raymond Walker. ~ for you are .... BLAC~ MEN - How old are you now? iC · ~ \Ciair:_ol Covers the Grey\ if· ·. , ASEBA -« r*¥¥1f1f. ... ¥J~.¥Jf-« To the occupants of Hickok: - FLASH: Mi Ilion aire \partners\ Stanley O'Brien and Kevin Moore have recently purchased a LARGE sum of i stock in the CRISCO 1 corporation. What is the great interest in oil? If you see a 2-legged cockroach, step on it! President Bonner, where's my letter? -- --- -'-- __ .:--·- Hey, \crip\! How's the knee? Recover soon • Black is knowmg that beins called. \Brother or Sister\ daes not refer to any member ofa m·onastery or eonvenL Black is knowiDB that the ''Soul ·Train\' is not a train headed for-tt.C capitol.of Korea .•. And that getting on . the goodfoot has nolhing to do with being ~ripp~. Black is .knowing that Lady Day refers to the Lady of the blues ahd not to any day set aside for women. Black is kn~wing. that Super Fly is. not the cousin· of Atom Ant. Black is -knowing that the Ali Shuffle · has nothing to d..o with dealing cards. I:Uack is know'ing\'that \bad .. is really very gOO' d .•. And that \heavy\ cannot be measured by a cup or a spoon. Dlac~ is knowing ttuit .. Black Ivory\ is not on a piano... · · And \the Dramatics is not a tlk..~>pian art. Black is knowing that a colored · person must be one colored with crayons... because ·it certainly can't ·refer to you~ . Black is n9t having to define Blackness ... but knowing that you are. UTAMll Big beautiful bronze man your love is as dose as the life~death shrill from old folks jn pa.radise ;young as beginning raiRs in Guinea-Bissau Clnd stn;mg like a Ip.illion quivering frog~throats wailing through the night wells of lfe How deep this time of u:s dancing beneath Mozambique against moon confessing flames boHncing baby heart-beat ocean tears .of mud · to a str~ge snake of a new make · arking the brain necl< of our song Biack: ... or midni~ht, jet. ebony. sic.nna. sepia. gold.· sable; charcoal. t{\0,. s~mell. auburn~ chestnut. bronze. copper. cinnamon. russet. chocolate. . walnut. ·Cocoa. .e,vcn hei~e ... and many many more! SO LONG My man loved me so much he wanted to kill me C<tu5e he loved me so goQ.d. he wanted to die cause he loved m~ without ~orrow so sad witho11t tears he loved me to kill to die to qy so much he waRted to scream cause i loved him too much i drank his tears loved him too much i ate his strength loved him too much i stole his joy i loved him to drink to eat to steal cause we loved so much so good to love to love so kmg to love so long ESSENCE: SEPTEMBER WE CAN'T ALL LOOK AUK E .... NOW C'AN WE . - .. --.,·-------·--·--·-••-•••• .. ••-•••••-•••----~-------w-----------------~··---;;;;--;;;;;;,;~ I -- - lernud Carey, aetor extraorcllnare, alont w1t11 his faithful do_g Thor. FREE Subseriptions to·Pers~tive For persons wishing Perspective mailed to their home or place of business. Mail this clipping to· . · To all those who are gifted M • . G y Ch t with, inspired to. or skilled ISS • . • a man with any literary, journalist or poetic ability, please submit BOX • 0274 your double-spaced, typewritten articles to Gail U • . C ·~~ Chatman, Hickok room-205 n10n · 0 ege (Box 0274) by midnight of __ . Feb. 8. Schenecta~y, N.Y. 12308 Subscriber: . NAME ______ ..........___ __ ADD'RESS _________ _ City-State· ZiP-----~- Special thanks to Thor for Professor .Bernard A. Carey the fertilizer you placed in the has been awarded his laundry room •. The \grass'' is doctorate for his extensive much \greener.\ research and. semiilar in Sex Education. Some Useful AddresSes 1. National Achievement Scholarship' Program For Outstanding Students 990 Grove Street Evanston, Ill. 60201 2. Delta Sigma Theta Scholarship Board 1814 M St., N.W. Washington, D. C. 20036 3. Whitney.M. Young Jr. Grant Fund for Education and Economies American Bankers Association 1100 Connecticut Ave., N.W • Washington, D. C. 20036 4. Parents' Confidential Statement College Scholarship. Service, Box 1'76 Princeton, New Jersey 08540 5. Family Financial Statement, The Financial Aid Operations P.O. Box 1000 lowa City, lo~~ .. ~~~_!l __ _ 6. National. Scholarship Service and Fund for Negro Students 17'76 Broadway New York, N.Y. 10019 7. American College Testing Program P.O. Box 808 Iowa City, Iowa 52240 8. College Entrance Examinati~ Board Box 1540 Berkeley, California 94701 or 9. College Entrance Examination Board Box 2800 Princeton, New Jersey 08540 lPLfAI Plllf IR TIE) American College Testing ~~------~-------------•--ft·~---~------------·--~--·---------------------8~------------~------.-~!ogratn, 10. United Negro College Fund 22 E. 54th St. New York, N.Y. 10022 ... ... ~ - - .. \ . \ ' ' . . . ' io • 'li ' <I

