VoiUIIlt 107, No.I S.tember 1791977 ***************************************************** * . . .· ·. ,_ . . . -. . . . . . . . .. * ·SPECIAL ORIENTATION ISSUE : ***************~*************************************** Or -- . . Arr. · . tentatton -_ ·· _·_ -·. tves by JEFF A.MADO I Orientation '77. You've bee-n hearing these words all summer, but what do they really mean? Some people say that Orientatio-n is a crash course in college life. You'll learn where \the Chopper\ is, Little Vinnie's telephone number (little Who?), the difference between S.O.A., R,A., F.O.A., R.U-C., and the U.J.E., Arthur, and the meaning of life. Who will -help you find out all these things? Your S.O.A. (Student Orientation Advisor) is a student who has been chosen out of a large group of volunteers to be your .. tour ,guide a~d host\ through the first few days of Union. He or she can help you through the ins and outs of Union life, both academic and social. He- or she can help you with registration, learning the Gre~k alphabet, and Little Vinnie's phone number. The orientation group will h-ave 2 students O.A.'s and one faculty O.A. Your F.O.A. is a professor or dean who will help show you the ropes at Union. Ask. your F.O.A. what funnelating is - he or she will be more than happy to tell you. But who set up tne program that the O.A.'s are going to take you through? The Orientation Committee. The Committee is a group of .16 students overseen by the Director of Student Development, who have been planning. Orientation '77 since last spring. Back then the goals were formulated: help acquaint new students with Union college socially and academically; introduce i11coming freshmen to a new life style and a n_ew living situation for transfer students; and to help all incoming students to find a nucleus of friends creating another home. There are students who commute to Union daily; and we want them to feel that· the Union campus is just as much their home as it is a home to the resident students. Last spring the committee began to set up a program for these few days of Orientation. Some committee membe.rs even stayed in Schenectady over the sumrner, and volu11teered their time to work on 11nd plan the next few days' activities. This was when most of th.e planning was done. · Now that it'!! September and the whole committee has been up here for 2 weeks, we've fininshed the planning part\ and now your 0. A's will take you ,through a program of meeting people, partying and academia. Saturday will be the most hectic day of all. After spending the morniag at registration and getting setiled, President Bonner wiil have a convocation to welcome you to Union. This is a good chance to hear the President's ideas on orientation and the college experience. Later that afternoon there is. your chance 'to meet your O.A.'s and 15 others of your orientation group. The highlight of Saturday night is the showing of The Paper Chase. Here you can see a cinematic representation of academic honesty, dishonesty, and pressure. Don't let John Houseman•s role as an unfeeling, callous professor disturb you you'll only find that kino at Harvard. Sunday's big activities start with student advising during breakfast. (here will be tables set up at West College cafeteria with uppen;:lass students ready to talk to you about ·various courses of study, majors, and pre- professio11al programs. Sunday afternoon will bring an orientation_ , tradition The Girting Center picnic: The Girling Sunday night also has Cabaret shows in store for the Campus. The . Union College Cabaret is a student run .facility that serves wine, beer and munchies along with a show. The entertainment-is always excellent, with acts which range from guitarists to jugglers. Monday will bring a myriad o1 activities. ihe morning highlight will be departmental meetings. At these meetings you can talk with professors about courses, .requirements, and majors. T~re 9 s an off chance that one of the professors might know the pnone number of. Little Vinnie•s but don't count on it. Nonday .. s dinner at West will be augmented by a presentation of .. The History and Heritage of Union,\ by Glenn Wolfson, ·n. Glenn did his thesis on this last year, and he also team taught a course in the subject. Monday night the campus will be dancing to the calls of Professor Charles Scaife of the Volleyball in Fox Courtyard after a fall shower Weather or Not? If by the -time you read this it has not rained (nor snowed) at Union College &ince your arrival you are probabi::Y elligible for the Guiness Book of World Records. For those who .h-ave not been here before it is common knowledge. among everyone else that Schenectady does indeed have the worst Weather in the Northern diverse arts such as: raindrop dodging, puddle leaping and most importantly mud sliding (slinging). Winter (cold, s•usb, snow, ice) One word certainly cannot describe a Schenectady winter. Actually winter here starts about Columbus Day and continues through May Day. The cold starts early and it gets very cold; 22 below and with the wind chill to minus 70. First we get slush and th~n as winter rolls along West or even from the Library Plaza. People have been known to -get lost wandering through a blizzard never to be heard fro_m again. It has been said that Union is the only campus in America where you can skate to class. Do not be dismayed though, because spring is just around the corner; a long corner. Spring (Sun??) Nqtt Memorial: A 16-sided wonder You know it's spring when the gardeners start planting. Surprisingly enough that just happens to coincide with the w~k before parents' weelc.etid. For the most part spring can be really nice, sparkled with only occasional showers (3 or 4 per week) and intermittent mud (to your waist). The best thing about spring is that all the cretins (especially your roommate), who have been inside and haven't bathed since the 'first frost, can now be thrown outside to inhaQit scenic Schenectady. Center is a campus facility 2 miles Chemistry department at an all down Van Vranken Avenue. lt campus square dance. Fresh has a pavillion for parties, a pool, picked apples and cider will be and acres of open · fields. The served all night to keep the picnic will be an orgy of food, dancers in the mood. Hemisphere. A seasonal breakdown would resemble the following: Fall (Mud) Freshmen will not be ·able to beer and games for freshman and Now that we've confused you transfer stUdents only. It will give with the orientation -schedule, the new st-udents a chance to meet acronyms of O.A., R.A., etc., one another and to meet relax. Everyghil\g will fall into professors and ·their ~amities. place in time, and soon you\ll feel Sunday night will give new at home in your new students a chance to meet ol'O. environment. By the way... the students at an all campus party number for Little Vinnie's (O.K. upperclassmen, it's your Pizzeria is 374-5600. fully appreciate the incredibly ................................................ .. ( tutn aoW). This party is .................... -•••••••••••••••• poor weather of their first term Danny Wojnilower is the \for their senses will be dulled current editor of Coneordiensla. from t~e shock of . the .47 He is looking forward to seeing consecutive days of ra~n w~tch many new faces on this year's follow the 4 days of onentation. staff. There are still many sponsored jointly by the I'd Iike to thank the following lf your first day and/ or week's Orientation Committee and the p~ople for helping to complete weather happens to be nice, don't Pan-Hellenic Council, Union's this gem last Thursday: be du'Jledj you'l'e just being lulled organization of fraternities and Ben Green, Andy Mit(;)hell, into a false sense of security until sororities. What better way to end Matt Nagorsky, Jon Schorr and it•s too late to have your tuition a day that started with academics The Orientation Committee. refunded. ~y the end of your stay than with a party! ........................................... P.:..!.:. here you'll ha\Ve perfected many -- editorial gositions available. Other positions on the newspaper also still need to be fllled. If you are interested in any phase of journalism, whether it be writing, layout or adYertising, please contact· Danny in 219 Fox. ···-~--·-······------~----.---'

EDITORIAL The moment is now. You have finally arrived. The applications, interviews and impatient waiting. for acceptance and rejection notices has now been reduced to mere memory. All the years of straining to maintain membership in the highest echelon of your class without ever waking up are finally over. Your level of achievement thus far is commensurate with that of your fellow classmates. Whether or not you utilize your potential rests solely on your shoulders. In other words, the buck has now been passed to you. Pers.onal motivation will tell the story in the long run. Don't let anyone make you believe for a minute that Union \life\ will appear at your dormitory door. It simply will not. Another note of warning, motivating yourself· for yourself is not '~college.\ There 'exists a myriad of opportunities available for each of you. By assisting us to help make Union College a better place, you can assist yourself in becoming a better person. Opportunity is knocking at your door. Open it and your years at Union will become stimulating, exciting, and worthwhile. To seek involvement or stay behind closed doors with eyes and mind dosed, is your choice. If you select the former, all power to you. On the other hand, if the latter becomes the easy way out, don't come complaining about Union College problems, you will have helped to create them. As for right now, relax, make yourself at home, and enjoy the adjustment period. We will try our hardest to make jt as easy as possible for you. Best of luck to all of you and remember- Union is your school. D.W. Where to Go ·to Find Those Who Know Simple answers to simple. questions. That's what you came to college for, right? Perhaps in certain areas thai is what you should receive~ Tllerefore, the Orientation Committee has compiled a list concerning some of the questions most frequently asked by new students. Hopefully, you will refer to this before falling into panic for lack of information. So cut this column out and fix it over your desk. By the way, most of the information contained herein was taken from the Union College Register. Withdrawal from Course ................ Faculty Advisor and Registrar Withdrawal from Course after 6th week ..... ~ ......... Faculty Advisor and Dean of faculty · Incomplete Grade .............................. : ...... .Instr.uctor of the Course Permission for a Fourth Course ..... , ...... , .... Faculty Afivisor and . Dean of Faculty · Prorated Tuition .................................................... Dean. ot Faculty Reduced Course Load ............................................ Faculty Advjsor Absences from Exams or Cla~ses ............ .Instructor of the Course Term Abroad Program ................. Modern Languages Department Comprehensive Education Program ............ ~ ....... Dean of Faculty Academic Major ........................... .- ........ Department Chairperson (right on, Tide IX) Change of Advisors ........... Registrar and 'Department Chairperson Independent Study Programs ................... Department Chairperson Credit for Work Elsewhere ................................................ Registrar. Proficiency Exams .............................................................. Registrar Financial Aid ........................................ Director of Financial Aid Health Insurance Information ........... .Infirmary or Business Office Food Service .................. SAGA Office, West College Dining Hall Payment of Bills ............................................................ Comptroller Transcript lnf ormation ....................................................... Registrar Personal Counseling .................. Counseling Center (Wells House), Dean of Students, Director of Student Affairs (College Center) Transfer Information and Counseling ................. Dean of Students Withdrawal or Leave of Absence from College .. Dean of Students Readmission to the College ................................. Dean of Students Grievances i.e. Discrimination, Rights Violations .. Dean of Students Emergencies...................................... Campus Security (Phone 6178) i--PARENT&-~ 1 J I .. Have Concordiensis sent home. 1 1 Keep . abreast. of the coll~ge's activities ONLY SlO fol' a full year's subscription. Fm I out this form and send it and ·your ·payment to Concorcliensis, c/o Union CoUeJe, Seheneetadyt N.Y. 12308 I Nam.~----------~---~------~---------- Ad·,·~------------------------~----- I I . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . L---.._-.....-.w.--..--•a...w.i.i.--.·..;.._-.;..;..;r.,,;.spni,._.. ·. ' . . - - ' . - . ' . ' CONCO.RDIENS/S, Septembet '7, 1977 --------~----~----------~--------------~ Let the Geek Recently, Union College has come under media fire for promoting academic policies which allegedly tend to strengtb,en its image as a hackneyed, antebellum, self-s.erving inteliectual dribble-basin. You, as freshpersons, are duty~bound to dispel this unkind bit. of media whimsy. To do so, you must: discreetly. . 2) Blow up academic bulldlnas9 maim professors, etc. Remember, we're .not in Troy: no sensationalistic explosions will be tolerated here, and mindless violence is certainly out of the question, unless you're at a Beta grain party. then I guess it's . okay. Only bleed off-camera, and try to moan out of microphone range. 3) Torture cute little puppies ·in Ernie Tetrault's 'presence. Let's face it: ML Tetrault has always been on a human interest kick, ap.d nowthinks he's \Joe Humane Newsman\ or something, so don't torture cute little puppies near or around him. You can however, I) Pretend you .are smart. The news media likes to report. about smart people at colleges. Even if you are pitifuHy studpid, just hanging around the Periodicals Room .J 0 minutes a day might help our imate if you are espied by the press. If you are indeed smart, flaunt your Miltonic intellect constantly, and if·you are reaDy smart, transfer. 2) Hum well-known cla!Sieal · overtures. The true quasi- -immolate gerbils in front ·of Bob McNamara, who likes that kind of thing. sophisticated liberal arts: college student should have some depth and breadth in the gentle terpsichordian Muse. Some suggested overtures: Beet.,hoven's \Egmont Overture\ (crisp, upbeat, and contains. a few neat French , horn riffs}; Rossini's \Marriage of Figaro\ (his \William Tell\ is better known, but media people might mistake it for the 'Lone Ranger' theme, and conclude that you are gauche indeed); also acceptable are the Brandenberg Concertos (nos. 3 and 4 are real crowd pleasers). 3) Know how to spell and pronounce the name \Kierkegaard.\ A favorite ploy of Capital District newspeople is to come onto campus disguised as normal people; grab some unsuspecting freshman, shove a microphone in his florid complexion and yell, \Spell Kierkegaard!\ They feel that if you can't spell Kierkegaard, you must then be an uncultured boor and a logical positivist to boot. Well, we'll show them up this year, right? Right! Th~gs you must NEVER do: 1) Vomit a lot. Whether you suffer froiD too much Utica Club or a slight case of gastroenteritis, you should never throw up in public. The press would jump all over Union, saying that \its students are self-inddlgent; rampantly hedonistic, and ean•t hold their swill for beans.\ If you · must throw up, try doing so · Thus far, I've discussed some 'd·o's' and \don't's\ concerning how we · can improve external relations with the community and news media. At this point, I would--like to answer, under a highly generalized format, some popular questions or dilemmas which frequently. 'pop up' dur~ng Orientation Group meetings. They are as follows: 1) What school is this? The question is certainly apropos; fQr all you might know, this could be Amherst, or Williams, or Nassau Community. The correst response, however, is: \This is Union College.\ 2) Where c:an I buy books? A respectable question indeed, and one that reftects a solid, introspective personality. Books can be purchased at the base of the N ott Memorial (the big thing that 19oks like a woman's breast) at t~e Campus Bookstore, which also vends toilet accessories (tUbs, sinks,. towel racks, etc.); cards, soap, records, hashish, Union College embossed giftware, calculators, schoo~ .supplies and · various other sundry items. 3) Wby does the Nott Memorial look like a womaii's breast? I can't recall a single year when this question wasn't asked. Originally, the Nott Memorial was designed to look like an orangutan's pancreas; the blueprints were d~stroyed in· a mysterious fire, B:lid the architect, working from a picture of . an WELCOME ' FRESHMEN AND TRANSFERS Speak orangutan's pancreas, redesigned the Nott tc:, conform to its present specificiations. Why, I don't know. 4} Whe11 did Union 10 ~eel? Uh ... gei it is? I thought ... I mean, · really? Women? Hey, no kidding! Wow, J'd ·heard rumors, but they were all unsubstantiated. I suppose we really did go co-ed! Gosh! 5) Where can I go to get btld? Ans: the White Tower, 4:00 AM, ask for \Unclean Eileen,\' an~ bring twenty bucks with you. 6) What is a SAGA Mountain• Climber? During the Geneva Convention the Allied powers agreed to help rebuild Berlin if .the Germans would destroy their recipe for Sb.ephercl's Pie and tt~rn over their remaining stockpiles of the infamous biological. killer, ..The Mountain Climber.\ Unfortunately, in 1943, Hans Von ·saga, an 11.p-and-coming short- order cook in Hamburg, hijacked a shipment of .. Mountain Climbers'' and smuggled them into the United States in his pockets, which. he later had to have dry-cleaned and fumigated. So lethal was this foodstuff that in 1953, the Atomic Energy Commission exploded a small wedge of 'MC-23~ 1 at Zelmo's Canyon, Utah, nauseating cattle and vegetation for miles. The \MoUntain Climber\ consists of a .stale hamburger . bun liberally smothered with rancid tuna, choice bits of dachsund (upperdassmen may recall the 'Sbermanburger Incident' of 1976), and toppe-d with a piece of yellow American cQ.eese that at one time_ was white. If you should inadvertently ingest an MC, Do not force reg~rgitation: it will only serve to mess up the dining hall. Rather, you should drink vast quantities of water, and have someone rush uou to Ellis Hospital for .a full-spectrum body pump. 7) Why am I living in choice, spilc:ious housing facilities down,. campus while uppei'dassmen, who · ha~e been here far longer than myself, are Jiving at Po~ter continuell on p. 4 ·.o UNION COlLEGE PV8 ltESTAIJR~NT Yc « :SCHENECTADY, N.Y. IL306 1-IOLLO·W . Phon&: (518) :37CH)OSO .. •. . 370.605\ Hour:s: 8•1 Mon., Tuel., Wed., Thurs.; s.:2 on Friday; .>:<\'-: . SJJt. ~· Sun. '· We Will Be Open For Your .. ~f Eating And Drinking Pleasure All Jtiek~~d ~ BREAKFAST, LUNCH AND DINNER - Bar will open ~at 4:30 - Come joiq ~our friends down at The Pub. I \' ' ~ ' .. I by T( \Unit to man: say is t things 1 more o many Union things nothln altho~! only o instanc . and t\1 given t as \t\] other Union and t perhap and t~ differit while neithe1 sense 1 And infinitt Is 'rna cours~ circuh hand' Congr make 'manJ co nee] 'many 'many The q intelle each inevit: ratio II for, 1 hinte< de oris Collei finds damn that 1 collo' not 1 en cot COIDI chara even make Einst he s1 to til dare good stanc imtill of rn 'man ':\ .... \ :.:. '·.' ~: '·, 1

. CONCORDIENSIS. Septembt:r 17. 1977 Page 3 How Many Manies? b TODD MILLER True;. Einstein was German, · answers;' not glib platitudes; not · Y · · ' · ·· · ' ·.. . · ~nd perhaps in hi~ innate vainglorious sermonizing, but the \Union Collegeis many things Teutonic staunchness he simple Truths whicb make the to many people.•• What I mean to per~ived an aptimism that may Universe run on time. 'I demand say is that while it may be many or may not have e~isted. But to know 'many~ness' in all• its thing!! to a particular person, it is \Union College is many things to various morphologies. We are m()re often than not one thing for many people\ is almost a taunt to students (0, the inescapable logic many people;. more specifically; me;:; it seems a direct challenge of it all!), and 1, as a student Union College;: is a multitude of calling forth across Time itself, yearn to be tal!ght the for:gotten things to same people, .but (faring me t,o doubly define or unexplored mysteries of nothing to other people... 'many-ness.' Is th~re one man or •many.' But again, I am one although teehnically it can b~ woman .among us who has never among 'many;' I cannot carry on only one thing per person. For pondered ··:the intricacies of this noble . struggle alone. ins~ce, it IIUiY :be idylliclor you 'roany;' and indeed, wept Qpenly C()lumbia University has re~ntly . and tumultuous for me at any at his or her failure to. come to included a provocative seminar in given time (heretofore referred to some sort of realistic grips with its curriculum for the upcoming as \t\). although there may ;be .this aU .. impottant word? academic year; entitled \Many other tim.es (tl, t2'\* til) when- Lifl! is full of questions, I Through the Renaissance: A Few Unic;>n CoU~ge is idyllic. for me suppose. ln fact, by my very act Historical Anecdotes;\ I am and tumultuous for y~m 1 or of supposing that Life· is full of certabt that it will pioneer new perhaps simultaneously idyllic que$tlons, · l am fomentiilg a pathways towards understanding and tumultuous fot you on . two supposition; a conjecture; I am wnat 'many' mean:t to the people Qiffering planes of consciousm;ss, weighing many different things' of that era. Why, l must persist, while I may perceive it as \. without knowing what 'many' is! can't we have any courses dealing neither here nor there,\ jf you To some this is ·mind-boggling, with 'many-ness?\ What is the sense my drift. and ·tightly so. For as Napoleail Administration afraid of, And what do I mean by the so eruditely put it as his flfth anyway? Forgive my occasional infinitely nebulous term 'many?' horse Was in the process of being plummets into linguistic Is 'many' merely 'a lot' (Which of shot out from under him at radicalism; after all, this essay course leads to the sam~ ldnd .of WaterloQ: . \I have conquered was supposed to deal with Union circular debating that all but many countries and many people, College and what it means to the handcuffed the Fillmore yet I, being only one, !!hall soon people who study here, but damrr Congress), or can we somehow be the ultimately vanquished, ... for it, 'many-ness' is just ~o important make it definable'! Further, is although I tlm the master of if we are to survive as-a nation! 'many' a purely American many, 'many' has made me its \Union College is many things concep.t, and if not, is the British pa11sionate slave.\ History tells us _to many people.'' Okay, I've 'many' comparable to our own that Napolean wal? indeed beaten already taken up your invaluable 'many? Or the Japanese 'many?' at Waterloo; it ~so tells us that time with my speculations on The question pulsing through the he suffered a rare fom1 of 'many' and 'many~ness,' so I'll just intellectual veins, if you will, of stigmata of the left breast, which skip over that whole, really each sober- American must caused him to place his right hand interesting, vital aspect of our inevitably tmd its focus in the ove.r the afflicted area 'in the heritage and get right down to the rationalization ofthe term 'many,' hopes of stopping th~ flow of pith of thith ethay (thorry). for, as our own Eliphalet Nott blood while in battle, lest his hinted only days before his titnely troops think him mortally demise: \The. future of Union wounded .and surrender. College as a liberal arts institution Interesting tid-bits of military finds its penultimate salvation or nostalgia notwithstanding, we damnation in the definition. of must learn to appreciate· such that most elusive of quantitative trivia without ~llowing it to colloquialisms; 'many.\' Can we dictate our actions or influence not extend N ott's metaphor to our ideas. 1 feel that this same encompass our own plight as thought can be applied quite components of a national easily to Union College. What we character confused and perhaps, learn at this venerable place of even weakened, by an inability to higber education may prove make sense of the abstract? Was ultimately dissatisfying to us as Einstein so far off the mark when people, although perhaps it may he said: \To reason abstractly... be appealing to us as \ ... doctors, to touch the limits of reason; to lawyers, men's room attendants, dare to subjugate the atom for · and other professional people.\ good or evil... all these things •People' refers to the collection as Stand mute in the face of one a whole, for we are nothing if we irmi:lutable fact... we are a world are not people, frrst and foremost. of many, and yet know not what And as people, we have a right to 'many' is ... \ expect our college of 'having the Hillel SHALOM! The JSO-Hillel is the Jewish student organization on campus. After a most successful and eventful year in 76- 77 .(speakers,- film series, ·brunches,. Fri. night dinners, Israeli dancing, etc.), we are looking forward to even more exciting and innovative programs this year. For more information on 'tliisyear'sschedule;please stop by the J~U-HtHel booth at the Activities Exhibition in Carnegie Hall. To accommodate tho~e of you who will be staying in Schenectady for YQm Kippur, we will gladly arrange for you to attend services and for home ,. ............................................................... hospitality. lf interested, please CONCORDY contact Gary Philipson (307 South) or Beth Motzkin (213 Davidson, -ph. 6573) by Tuesday, or leave your name at the booth during the activities exhibition. FROM THE PRESIDENT'S DESK I have for many years had the chance to welcome new students to college. The first group I welcomed here at Union are ·now seniors. Over the years the situation in a college may change, but a commonality exists. Freshmen arrive with expectations about college. I do not know what all your individual expectations . are, but I believe that whatever they are, a fundamental truth applies: you help make the college what it is . That is the essence of what I told the incoming class three years ago. I believe it was true then; I believe it is true today; I believe it will remain true as long as we are an institution dedicated to liberal education. You have entered this college in a year in which there will be important debate and discussion about the nature and future of the college. Questions have been raised about what is the best way to ensure a strong college in the decades ahead. None of us has al\swers that are easy and foolproof. But all of us have an interest in finding the best answers. As we deal with these and other questions, those of you who are new to Union College will have opportunities to participate in these discussions. You will have to attempt to come to some understanding of what Union College is. There are some general things yQu should know that will give you a basis for thinking about your college and what you want to make it. Foremost, this college is a place of learning. What you learn will depend on many things and your faculty will be an important key. But you also will be a key participant in your education. The potential is great. You will become part of proud tradition that stretches back 182 years. A tradition that has continually been enriched by dedicated faculty and serious students. That tradition has produced an alumni body that boasts many members who have made their mark on the nation. Leaders in government, industry, education have all gone forth from Union College. More than 100 college presidents had their first experiences in higher education where you are beginning yours - here at Union. As you begin your college years, keep in mind the place you occupy now and hope to occupy in Union's tradition. The Union College of books and classes, th~ Union College of activities and camaraderie, the Union CQllege of your next four years' experience, will be the Union College you will carry with you all your life. What that Union College is will in large part be determined by what you bring to it. I encourage you to take advantage of this opportunity and to relate what you study and experience to your own ideas, hopes, and_ goals. Welcome, to Union College. Thomas N. Bonner A Ullion Week {maybe) ·WANTS YOU FIRST ISSUE: WEDN:ESDAY THE 28THUU by DANNY WOJNILOWER Welcome freshmen! This fall term at Union College proves to be an exciting one. Many types of activities have been planned and ............ ~ ... , ..................................... _ ........ before you know it, both the academic and social year will be in fuU swing. Your heads will be in so many places so, in order to help you through your plight, we have, devised whis brilliant way to Become a Co;llege Campus DeaJer Sell Brand - Na•e Steret) Components at · lowest prices. High profits; NO INVESTMENT REQUI'RED. Fllt d~taiiS, _ eontaet: FAD Componenb. Inc., :ZO Passaic .Ave., Fait.lield, New Jers\y 07006. Ilene Orlows~y, 201·217·6884 ·. inforin you of many campus a1::tivities but beware, this schedule is quite flexible. A ... normal\ week: Monda, - If you're int<> sin~g, both the womens' and met'ls1 glee clubs are holding praetice. The Penpecth'e, a monthly paper, and the Campus Voice, which appears every third week, meet today. The day is highlighted by an intellectual cabaret, a forum for discussion of contemporary issues by professors, students etc. And of course, the Union College radio station, WRU<:; 90,9 on Ute FM dial, will be broadcQ&ting. 1.·· '.·~~-- .. ··.: ~;. ·. ,' J ~~}0..,. J} ·; ~-·\' .. ··· -· Tuesday - Coneordlensls, the weekly newspaper of Union College, convenes this evening in order to put out an issue the following day. The Rathskellar and the Pub may have specials tonight, much to the delight of all students, especially those void of classes on Wednesday. It is also Cabaret Game Night in the Cabaret (where else?) and if you want movies, films such as Sllent Movie; Roeky, Network, and Murder By Deatll will be available.. in SS Ol~ (that's Social _Sciences). lf you're into-the party scene, the Fraternities are going full swing- during their fall rush. Be sute to take advantage of _them. And if you~te stuck in your room, whatever the reason mpy be, there's always WRUC. Wednesd•y - The day has arrived, and cotne evening, so has Concordlensls, with all the current campus news. Prospective and the Campus Volee will also f~d their ways into the center seetion of Concordy (short for Coneordlens~s) at various 'I I • •.'.,' ' intervals. For the very first time, sorority parties will be making the scene at Union which should be a good time. The glee clubs, male and female, will be practicing again and WRUC will be doing its thing . Thursday - Tonight is the famous (infamous) Cabaret which features every sort of act imaginable, performed by members of the Union College community. Two shows will be performed, the ftrst at 9 and the second at 1 i p.m. It will be to your advantage to get your tickets in advance. The Freshman Record and the Bridge Club may meet tonight. Also, at some point in the tertn, the Social Committee concert will appear but details are not available at this time. The ever present WRUC is still alive. Friday - If you have not arranged a great time for yourself and are WQndering what to do, make tonight a movie night in SS 01(;. The OutinR Club leaves Continued on Paae 4 I .

CONG(JRDIENSJS, September }], 1977 eporte FALL Sports is an integral part of any college. A:-. the fall season approac::h!.!s, each team begins to get an idea ol' what kind of a season they arc capable of. Once the ~cason begins, a break either way can be the difference between a wtnning and losing season. Only time will tell. Gridders Optimistic Th~ Union College varsity football team is now preparing to open its season September 24, at home against Bates College. The team is coming off a 3-5 season during which the Garnet led in 6 of their K games. Another notable fact is the promising offense which scored at least 3 touchdo~ns in 6 of the games. Coach Tom Cahill, in looking at this years possibilities, said \I don't feel there's a team on our schedule we can•t beat. On the other hand, I don't think there's a team that can't beat us.\ The team boasts a returning backfield of sophomores Rich Romer (760 yds.), Doug Napodano (323 yds.) and improved junior quarterback. Problems existing Tor this. year's squad are a possible lack of depth and tbe untested freshmen. Regardless of theil' final record, this season is sure to provide great entertainment and many lasting memories. Soccer Plagued by Loss of Players When Union varsity soccer opens its home season September 24 against Oneonta, the optimistic outlook originally seen will be in d,oubt. Coach· Bob Magee ex- pected all of last year's starters to return and help improve on their 4-8 record. Transfers, late summer operations and academic problems, however, have clouded the bright picture. The absence of last year's co-captain Jim Manning will put much pressure on the defense, backed up by sophomore goalie Doug Crawford. At mid-field the Garnet will depend heavily on ex-JVers Mel FuJler. Bob Hogan and Paul Marvin. The objeci of the game is to put the ball in the net and this year's offense is, being counted on to do JUSt that. John Kovacs will RT PREVI, . . . Field Hockey prepares for season Women's Tennis Wants Sunshine The women's varsity - tennis team is coming off of a 3-win, 3- loss season during which 4 matches were postponed due to the weather. Returnees Leslie Kent and Debbie Katz should head this year's squad. Times for matches were unavailable. Cross-Country The cross-country runners once again are facing their usual problem - a lack of depth. Junior Kevin Scheuer and senior · previous one, new coach Marty Bob Moffat, bath track All- Morrison greets her players with Americans hopefully can transfer enthusiasm for the season ahead.· their skills from the track to the The team's first home game will cross-country course. Captain be October 3 against Cobleskill. Tom Lawson is also among this year's top runners and Pet~!. Pettit is being counted on to help lead the. squad. An interesting ·note is that juniors Shannon Harper and Kathy Lett have been seen with tbe team during workouts. Hopefully, they will form the nucleus of a women's team. The first home meet is October 5 with Hamilton. Field HO.:key After a J .. 9season in its third year at Union, each of which showed improvement over the Volleyball Looking Goad Coach Lynn Bartea is predicting a winning season for her varsity women's volleyball · team this fall. \The response I have received from my players indicated they're psyched up and optimistic, . a!ld that's three- quarters of the game,\ Coas,:h Barta reports. Last year's record of 2-12 will surely change this season. The home opener vs. North Adams and Williams is October 13. Union Week Continued from Paee 3 today for one of its several weekend trips during the fall term and a Social Committee dance will pop up somewhere ~ watch for it. WRUC - need we say more? Forum: They are proud to present on Wednesday, October 5, journalist Carl Bernstein, and on Thursday, November 10, actress Jane Fonda. Other speciitl events are sure to be set up but none others are known at this time. Enjoy your first term at Union College and if you want more information, there will be an Activities Exposition on Tuesday, September 20 f.rom I until 5 in the Student Center,; and if none of the activities suit your personal tastes, you can always nerd out! Andy Terranova leads this year's offense Saturday, Sunday - After sleeping late go out and root for your athletic teams, most notably football which will be seen on Alexander Field (consult map) on several Saturday afternoons. Other fall sports include JV football, women's tennis, varsity and JV soccer, women's volleyball and field· hockey, and cross- country. Mountebanks, the Union MOFFETT'S LIQUOR STORE Andy I crranova. Semor co- captain and offensive right guard John .. Speer leads a formidable line of five U Coli returnees; rhe defense, which recovered 26 fumbles last year, is led by senior co-captain and linebacker Ken Beck. The defense is also said to be much improved. move up from halfback to the forward line. Others, including Prinya Stithmimankarn from Thailand will have to .assume much of the offensive burden. With a tough schedule, this years soccer season will be anything but dull. Michael Ganz takes early lead in Concordiensis picture contest. Freshmen-. learn this face, he is your student forum president. Geek continued from p. 2 College theatre, will have a production somewhere amidst the autumn activities. At night, movies will be shown both days in SS 016. The Albany Symphony Orchestra will also l)e providing concerts during the term. WRUC completes a full week and begins another. House and worse? Cruel; that was Special Events As of very cruel, and you should feel publication, two major specials ashamed for having brou_ght it up. have been set up by the Speakers 8) What is a \comprehensive college?\ It is eigher a teensy- weensy university, or a pat phrase fer a ridiculous educational theory which attempts to make you believe that Union Coilege is in worse shape than it actually is, which it is, nonetheless, but you won't catch me saying it, whatever 'it' is, anyway. Well, that was suppos~d to be a minor essay geared towards orienting Freshpersons to Union as a college, a home, and a series of well-manicured lawns dotted with an occasional building or two, but I think I may have rambled a bit. At any rate, welcome to Union, and recall the stirring motto whi<;h app~ars under the bust of Athena, which reads: \Under the Laws of Minerva, we are all Giant Hairy PustUles with Foul-Smelling Armpits and A Need to be Lovedj Etc.\ - across from the fieldbouse .... Welcoming back new and old students to Union for 41 years. 346-0392 1505 VANVRANKEN (next to Mohawk Balik) i by. RichardS director of ~his year wil new ball~ intercolh:gia Mr. Saki associate ~ Columbia l assumed the :5. Before. hi middle of l board of <lecisions influence tb of athletics First, th Uriion to co in the · Athletic A Division dlsregardin1 college to s an.d more schools. Tt to rem,o membershiJ Small < Conference had been conference Marcil 197 ••1 think allow athl• manner co of liberal ~ by J( Lnion 4 primarily ~Landing .ummittee wliege Se nu:mhers 'nembets, len studer on all con puwt:r an <~.dminislJ rnemben

New A.D., Mr. Ri~hard S. Sokala VGLUME 107, NO. 2 SE\PTEMBER 28,. 1?77 Allen Report In April of last year, Admissions Director Jay Shupe submitted his resignation due to improprieties in athletic acceptances. The resignation. effective at the pleasur~ of the college, was delayed until a full investigation could be made by an ad-hoc committee headed by professors Neal Allen (Chairman), William Martin, William Thomas, and Student Trustees. Andrew Koblenz and Christopher Taylor. · The committee report, which will be provided to FORUM Representatives and PAB members tomorrow, recommends · the following major points: 1) Admissions director Jay Shupe be given a one-year contract for the academic year 1977-78 and not beyond that. 2) There be a full investigation of the Williams Letter alleging athletic recruitment violations. 3) That Union should be .cautious not to admit students who are unlikely to succeed at the college. A.D. Charts Athletic Future 4) That four scholar-athlete no-need scholarships be established. This concept follows the philosophy that athletics can and should play an important role at Union. Realizing that Union does not have a national attraction, this play, according to the committee, would provide an incentive to student athletes who demonstrate excellence of character. (It has been learned, however, that such a play violates a new NCAA mle that prohibits any no~need scholarships, and hence, may not be enacted at this time.) 5) That the financial aid office institute a policy whereby the financial arrangements of students living off-campus and receiving aid be more closely scrutini1.ed. by JIM DAVIS Richard S. Sakala, Union's new director of athletics, hopes that tllis year will prove to be a whole new ballgame for Union intercolll:giate sports programs. Mr. Sak.ala, who had been associate athletic director -of Columbia University since 1974, assumed the directorship last July .5. Before. his appointment in the rniddle of May, Union College's board of tnistees made two .decisions that will greatly influence the future -development of athletics heJ:\e. First, the board voted for Union to continue its membership in the National Collegiate · Athletic Association's (NCAA) Division 11 in hockey, disregarding urgings to allow the college to skate against the larger and more prestigious Division I schools. The board also decided to remove Union from membership ia the New England Small College Athletic Conference (NESCAC). Union had been a member of the conference siace its founding in March 1971. .. 1 think these two rulings will allow athletics to develop in a manner consistent with the type of liberal arts college that Union is,\ Mr. Sakala said. Mr.Sakalahelieves that Union should place some additiQnal emphasis on developing athletic pmgrams - more on a par with Williams rather than programs at Bates or Amherst, all NESCAC members. This consideration was of prime importance in the decision to discontinue Union's membership in the conference. B\Ut at the same time, Mr. Sakala says that Union has no intention of becoming overly involved in athletics - by, for instance, offering athletic scholarships. And for this reason, it was decided for the college to continue to compete against the smaller Division II schools in hockey. ••There were many people on both sides regarding each decision,\ Mr. Sakala said. \l feel that the athletic department has an important place here. It's just as important - but not more important - than any other department.\ The board of trustees \toted to remove Union from NESCAC because it felt the conference's regulations and policies were just too restrictive. The NESCAC confer~nce agreement, approved Nov. 16, 1975. prohibits college coaches from visiting a recommendations and are subject prospective student-athlete at tile to the approval of the college's candidate's home or in private. athletic committee, which is Strict limitations are also placed composed of three students, two on the dates which intercollegiate faculty memberts, and one teams may begin practice, as well alumnus. Mr. Sakala also notes as on involvement in post-seasetn that his proposed regulations tournaments and the number of resemble those of the Ivy League, reg11lar . season contests a team of which he gained much may play. knowledge while at Columbia ··union joined NESCAC University. because it was thought that If approved, these guidelines membership would generate good will allow U.nion. coaches to visit publicity for the school and prospective student-athletes for perhaps influence prospective the purpose of recruiting. But students to come here,\ Mr. limitations are placed on the time Sakala said. \But we recieved and conditions of such a visit. very little notice as a result of our It is also up to Mr. Sakala and affiliation.\ the athletic committee to So for at least the coming year, determine .wbat rules Union will Union will be independent of follow regarding among other membership in any athletic topics, scheduling and the starting conference. But the college will date-s for practices. The still abide by the .regulations of committee has not yet met with the NCAA, the Eastern Collegiate · Mr. Sakala, but he expects it will Athletic Conference (ECAC) and be soon and on frequent the Association for Intercollegiate occasions throughout the year. Athletics for Women (AlA W). \We want to act prudently,\ Since Union will not have to Mr. Sakala said. \It's going to abide to N ESCAC regulations - take several months to determine ··although we will in spirit,\ what we can and can't do.\ according to Mr. Sakala - Mr. Mr. SaKala's thoughts on the Sakala has drawn up a list of role athletics plays at Union is rules and regulations concerning indicated in a series of guidelines recruiting. He stresses that th.ese and recommendations he has guidelines are only written. In this, he states that · Continued on Page I 0 Committee Spots Open by JO-ANN MESSINA lnion College's governance is primarily r~n 'by twenty-nine ~tauding committees. These •ummittee!> tndudc nineteen All- wliege Senate committee~. Whose [Hcmben are students, faculty 'llembets, and administra,turs; and len student coJnmittees. Students on a.ll committees have full voting puw~;:r and equal ~tatus to the <~.dministrati ve and faculty members' Pre~ently, there are approxi- matciy fifteen openings on a total of ten committees. These op~nings are on Committees such a,;. the College Center Committee, which is responsible for all improvements made to Carnegie Hall; Speakers Forum, headed by Denise Wachtenheirn, which brings important public figures to Union College to speak; the Social Committee, headed by Ira Goodman, which is. responsible for most college com;erts and many campus-wide social events; and the Film Committee, headed by Jon Flescher, which is respon- sible for films presented on Tuesday nights and weekends. With the . e~ception of approxi- mately three openings, these positions will be filled with metn.bers of the class. of 1981. Applications for these positions can be found in the Student Activities Office in Carnegie Hall. Anyone interested please obtain an application and sign the list accompanying these applications. Anyone who signe(l the list for committee sel·ection, on September 20 at the Student Activities Exposition at Carnegie Hall is responsible for obtaining an application at the Student Activities Office and completing it. All applications are due l>acl< in the Student Activities Office by noon, Monday, October 3. The selections will be announced .as soon as possible and a meeting for ALL student committee members will be scheduled and announced thereafter. Anyone not chosen to serve on a committee at the outset of the year will be placed on an AD HOC committee list from which sub-committee members will be selected throughout the year. ' . 6) That a committee be established to write a policy statement for athletes similar to the Northeast Small C()llege Athletic Conference (NESCAC) n~les. 7) That once such regulations have been established, coaches be given the opportunity to vigorously recruit scholar athletes within the set policy rules. 8) That athletic ability remain an important quality when a student is considered for admissions. 9) Admissions procedures should include specific guidelines for the consideration of all candidates. These should be committed to writing. Coaches should no longer receive applications prior to submission to the admissions office. The report is available for inspection by the student and faculty from Forum-Senate Representatives and Division Chairmen respectively. As part of the same PAB memorandum (not the Allen report) the Presidential Advisory Board recommended that Dean of Students Mark Smith be given a non-renewable contract for the academic 1977-78.

Pagel · C()_NCORpiENSIS •. Sept!Jmber 28; 1977 EDITORIALS . . ' Allen Report Tomorrow morning, one of the most important documents of the year will be released to campus representatives for inspection by the College Community. This paper is the result of investigations authorized by the Presidential Advisory Board (P AB) charged with the investigations of admissions improprieties, athletics, financial aid and the Dean of Students. As noted in the page one story, this document contains specific recommendations and conclusions drawn from testimony and evidence accumulated during the investigations of last spring.This report ex.ists in two distinct forms: a complete version including full testimony and evidence. and an abridged copy giving only recommendations and conclusions without the evidence .it was based on. It is only this latter form that is available for campus inspection. Although Concordiensis has·complete confidence in the members of the investigative committees and their recm:nmendations, we believe that the community of Union College has the right and obligation to draw their own conclusions based on this testimony and evidence. We feel that the PAB should make available a version of the report centaining full evidence, without jeopardizing the confidentiality of the individuals involved. It is unreasonable for the PAB to expect that an intellectual community such as Union's will accept these recommendations of such high magnitude without any supportive information. In addition, we feel that the witholding of this information can only serve to widen the chasms that already exist between administrators, faculty and students. Concordiensis requests that the Presidential Advisory Board, meeting for their first session of the year tomorrow, authorize the distribution of a more thorough vemon of this report as delineated above. Concept'90 .. The campus of Union College, officially known as 'The College Grounds', comprises some 100 acres on a hill overlooking the older section of Schenectady, a city of 80,000, founded by the Dutch in 1661.\ So runs the description of the college grounds in a recent undergraduate catalogue. This description continues by explaining in detail tile hard work and .careful planning of the \college grounds\ by s~ch illustrious members of Union's past as Jaques Ramee, Eliphalet Nott and Issac Jackson. A quick glance will quickly reveal the fact that this section is missing in the current catalogues. Could it be that the College is no longer proud of the accomplishments of those men; for by just looking around, one may perceive that it no longer values the work they had done! Unfortunately, for most freshmen, their first impression of their new home was a dismal one. Many arrived Saturday morning through the main gate only to find themselves riding in circles, alleyways and parking lots. The cause of this dilemma was the not nearly completed entry court of Concept 90 (sic). The area in front of Old Gym Hall is a disgrace to Union and all those who care about Union. After realizing that the entry court was not comoleted for Graduation 1977 as anticipated (\.It is the hope of the Administration that a large portion of the work be done for the April trustees meeting and the entire project by graduation\- Concordiensis 1-12-77), most upperclassmen were shocked to find barely any noticeable improvement after the fifteen . week vacation. Many sources have confirmed that nothing tangible was accomplished during the entire month of July. Obviously, the school did not care about its appearance on opening day as nothing was done to make that area more presentable. A few easy .modifications could have included: bolt down the benches to their posts, clean up some of the loose mud, turn over the dirt in the flower box so it does not appear overrun with weeds. Apart from Concept 90 the remainder of the campus did not apf>~ar much better. Lawns had not been cut nor had plantings been maintained. These, coupled with the horrendous rain experienced tbat weekend made the grounds an eyesore. Upon entry to the dormito¥ks things did not improve much. The only project that appeared to have been completed was the highly urgent placing of locking dispensers oni all of thee toilet paper. The hallways looked awful; neither spackled nor painted. (Fox halls are being repaired now.) To make a long story short, someone or some group of people should be very ashamed at the condition of this school on September' 17th. The students pay a lot of money to come here and would like the place to look habitable as they arrive even if it can't appear .as such the entire year. anion collcgl • , concorOtens1s Edllor·in-chicf ......................................................................... danny wojnilower New,. cdn'm .......................................................... andy ml!chell, matt nagorsky A~'ncmtc editor. .. ......................................................... ben green A\istant In the editor~ ......................................................... todd miller Lay<>ut edll<>r .... ............ .. ...................................................... joe cappuccio l'eaturc ednm .... . ............................................................... sara simmons Sports cditor, ........................................................... marty dolan, debbie poletto Culture edllor. ............................................................................ .fern flomenhaft l'hoto editor, ........................................................ : ............ Jon llescher. ed platz Photo stafl... ....................... l red brae h. mark leinberg, steve gnll, lance hoffman Business manager ................................................................................. m;ula lux Subscrtpl'ions editor ........ , .............................................................. laurie brccher Classilieds editor. .................................................................... martha r.ubenstein Circulatwn editor ..................................................................... paul markessinis Stall tht> week ........................... jell capelle, donna giannone, mark kawczynski, marty magida, Im·aiee nolletti, andy oelbaum, peter rotlt, dave rubin. rosemary saile. jon schorr, karen silverstein. rajiv sond, roslyn stone, danny sturch, linda straube, · dolores··woliy, cindy vanina, bob weinstein Art editor .......................................................................................... ;lester weiss Poelry cditor ............................................................................ delanne stageman C()NCORDIENSIS is published e•ety Wednesday by lhe student body of Union College, Old Gym Hall, Schenectady, New Yotk: to which Postal Forms 3579 are directed. Publications Office: Th.c Jewish World Publications, 416 Smith St., Schenectady, N. \'. 12305 (370-5483). Entered in the Schenectady Post Office as Second Class Matter. Subscription Rate 35 cents per copy, SJO. a year delivered · .. 'auy~llet,e ~ !h~Y~i.ted\siates.' . '·' .. Fall of Our Discontent This column will appear weekly; and will be as vital and important a force for what happens at this school as you make it. It grows out of the promise of many of the past year's candidates to find new and more effective avenues of communication. To the extent that you read this column and send to those of us writing your reactions, either in person or in writing, you will have taken a big step toward creating the kind of dia:logue that maximizes your effectiveness as students and ours as representatives. Questions, manifestos, and san;astic outrage are all sought and will draw, hopefully, some appropriate response. Our primary intention is to forge a recognizable student sentiment on some matters of concern to this college. The importance of this dialogue can not be overstated. Students have m the past and must continue in the future to play si·gnifjcant portion of the significant roles in determining community developed deep fears the direction and nature of as to whether President Bonner's Union. This does not refer only to pron,ouncements on the the elected student leaders, but all ••comprehensive college\ implied a students as well. This job is only fundamental and disheartening going to get more difficult in the alteration in the nature of this future. We hope, through this college. column to expand the active base One point to recall is the fact of support from which student that throughout last year's leadel's operate and thus increase turmoil students played a major if our effectiveness at all levels of · not crucial tole. In many respects college government. it was the activity of students that Many students,. es.p(:cially brought these problems, long freshmen and · transfers, are unattertded, to a head. In fact, probably very confused and in the this paper became in many ways dark about what happened last the focus of that debate. It is our year. The President tells us that intention that this year the focus last year's problems were the become sharper, that students see result of ·mistakes and those they've chesen to lead them, misperceptions. Perhaps. We saw up front and visible. the presence of a superbly At the end of last .spring most talented hockey team become the of th~ expJ·osive issues seemed to fulcrum for inquiries concerning reach some kind of cliqlaX. the propriety of our ~dmissions Instead Athletics, Admissions, program, Athletic program, and and the rest, though still not fmancial aid distribution. A wholly resolved, have evolved into a new context. 'fbey now must be seen against the larger backdrop of the issue of governance. In many people1s minds the crises of last year have raised questions about the efficacy of structures. Not only do we recognize that the existing arrangements are far from the ideal, but we have serious questions that need to be answered. To the extent that they can be fruitfully improved we encourage change. We are adamant, however, that whatever changes are contemplated will not undermine the principles of student participation in college governmeQt. In this regard we ascribe wholeheartedly to the sentiments President Bonner expresses when he says, .. Students will play an important role shaping ... Union's future.\ Michael Ganz, Presid~nt Jo-Ann Messina, Vice President Andrew Koblenz, Student Trustee Brien O'Toole, Student Trustee LETTERS Vandalism To The Campus Community: In a short ' time, candy machines will be reinstalled in Richmond, North, Fox, Webster and Davidson. These will be in addition to the one already in Carnegie. The machines will vehd at·20~~: and some will not require exact change. These machines are there for your convenience and enjoyment. In the past, we (Desormeau Vending and myself) have experienced some problems with these machines. Among these problems were faulty coin mechanisms, and occasionally bad candy. These problems are things we deal with as best we can, and are bound to occur from time to time. We are sorry for the incon- venience to you. However, when something does go wrong, both our phone numbers are on the machines (Desormeau has a seven day a week, 24 hour a day answering service). We also incurred a lot of vandalism on some machines last year. Whether the origin . of this vandalism was from on or off campus, we will not absorb its cost this year. If a machine is vandalized, it will be removed. Plain and simple. Think about it. Are a few candy . bars and maybe $~ or $10 worth it? We think not. Hopef~\ly you agree. If you have any sel~ction requests, ple&se contact me. If you have any other problems with the machines, please do not hesitate to call either of us. Thank you. Bdan L. Heaps 370-6587 103 Webster House Box 722 Union College Desormeau Vending 785-3311 Latham; N.Y. Xaviera Aga.in As a,nother year at Union College begins, the normal social patterns are seen developing as always. Freshmen women are being hustled by upperclass men who have been seen thumbing through the Freshman Record on nu~erous occasions. But, alas, what has happened to last year's freshmen women. We're being ignored, that's wlia~ happened and it just isn't fair. If we were good enough for you last year, how come we don't seem to measure up this year? Maybe you freshmen men will pick up on a theme. Sephomore women enjoy littention also. Tennis Coach? To the editor: We are writing to expre~s extrelne disgust at the present arrangement made regarding coaching for the women's tennis team. We are a ware of the difficulty that the athletic department faced trying to replace our former coach. But settling for a coaching arrangement that is at best insufficient and at worst frustrating jeopardizes both our enjoyment value and the success of our team. It is inexcusable! We definitely deserve a better structured practice schedule (night practices throw off an entire day), a more rigorous progr~m, . and most importantly, a full-1ime ceach who can attend teatn matches and meet tournament deadlines (we've already missed entry into the Eastern Collegiate). These seem like modest, in fact minimal demands, yet they are not . being fulfilled. We hope that we do not have to take any actions as we do enjoy the game and representing our school. Sineerely, Debbie Katz, lst singles Rhonda Kaplan, 2nd singles Ask us to a par.ty. X • Barb Berk, 3rd singles , .• · , • ., ,.. , .• , , • \ v , • , , , .• 8 !,~el~ ,, •. ~· ... \\., .• ~_,e.,.. .y .... nutti ~4-th l&liMlles.• . .,• ft.\~ .. ~ :~1~ l~l ll· .~ ,'\\' )· ,....: ~ ~~ ~.,: , ,t ·.( .,i. ~'~· -%\t.--~~,~ ._s.~. ~~~!11' 4/f. ... '- \~:~·.r: .. ~i/~~A't\'-' \'r-<rt\ ~ ,~'Cil v_.ft t. to \. .• ~ ..... . .• ' ' .. ' _____ __,..., Sel Because of: area and i student po College c;lQes security _problc and ord~r· s' nonetheless, tl monitoring ll grounds bord' the net he Schenectal tormidable 01 of petty I (specifically, L1b.rary whic tnternal secur ofl: further, S qu1ckiy ascer location 0f a: has .left many Co !lege stu de j.n the sub breezes .of Sc minutes and The Sec realizing tha sma11 size m2 of a cer monitori~g s: the purchase designed to 1 Bookstore, Building a1 Library with The system hooked .up 1 presently· uti detection a obviously· fo surveillance. Clifford Wo• type of cer panel syster discussion fc and they ha into getting several meet with Nanc) analyst at tl and Maintai went after t pointed out having the c Director elucidated computerize more thanj designed to fire alarm in words, \it c doors; it co Cl The acad Class- of · 19 by the Adn: of SAT sec bution, -and The nuri the class c percent a~ women increased J pool last y this year profession; significan applicants years. A statistic is of fresh1 themselves The SA' the accoi Verbal an surprising!;

CONCORDIENSIS, September 28, 1977 S :e···c~ 1 -:lr, · ·1····t;_ .. y· ·D·· ·· · .. ·.e ... ·v· . ·e· · ·l· ··O•:- P .. ; m:· ·. · · · ... e .. n· · .~.· t: ·. s. · ... . • ;, .,· ·.-~.~ ~ ·~ • -~ '':'<.'. . . • . •. · ... _ . : .· ' -~-.· ,· .. ' . . . ~ . Because of its small geographic (tur:n them on and oft) - it can area and fairly ¢onservative be used for security, fire control student population, Uni<m ;._ anything that you. neel:l it for.\ College Q.Qes not face manY The 'security' aspe,ct of the security problems in the strict 'la\v proposed system is. already and order' sense of the wo:td; apparent at the Union College nonetheless, the task of efficiently Bookstore, where a: Video• monitoring 100 acres of college monitoring system is already in grounds bordered on all sides by use. Although many students who th~;: nether sections of have seen the system are under s chen ectad y ·r e rna ins a the imp11ession that it is strictly a tormidable one. Occasional acts surveillance system, Mr. Wood of petty theft sti'l·l occur stated that .it also contains both a (specifically, at the Schaeffer silent and audible alarm sub- Library which has virtually no system. He further ~aid that the 1nternal security system. to speak Library and the Administration ofl: further, Security's inability to Building are also suited for such a quickiy ascertain the nature and system: the Cibrary because it location 0f \t dormitory fire alarm contains many rare or out-of- has .Jeft many a pajama-clad W:est print texts set up in an open-stack College studep.t shivering outside arrangement accessible to any in the sub-freezing nighttime student and irreplaceableibtoten; breezes .of Schenectady for fifteen and the Administration Building, minutes and more. ' because of the amount ·of cash The Security Department, and mventories which pass p~rspnnel, a similar course was implemented in conjunction with the municipal police training program designed to give .security officers gte~ctter depth in emergency first-aid, in-service penal law training, and proper reporHaking, Both the regular security and student &ecurity training programs are now considered mandatory. ln addition, all future regular security jo'b applicants will be required to have e~perienced at least one year of police or professional security tFaining. before their applications would be considered by Union College Security. It is hoped that the eventual installation of a commlidated computerized fire I security system, coupled with more intensive security training programs, will enable Security to maxitnize its efficiency in dealing with the day-to-day on~eampus protection of life, limb, and property. Page3 realizing that Union's. relatively through it on a daily basis. small size makes feasible the idea Director Wood. added th!!.t when of a centralized sec·urity the centralized panel system is monitoring system, is considering instalLed, Security would be able the purchase of just l)Uch a system. to ~onitor such potential trouble- designed to connect the Campus spots as the above using a Bookstore, the Administration continuous, twenty-four hour Building and the Schaeffer :operation .based at one location. Library with the Security Office. 1 True, such . technologically- The system would similarly be ' .sophisticated systems might help hooked .up to those dormitor.ies .' ifl maximizing campus .security presently· 'l!tilizing electronic fire coverage, b1.1t what about the detection and alarm systems, 1 most essential components of ebviously' for the pur:pose of fire security, the security personnel surveillance. Director of Security · themselves? The Director of Clifford Wood e-xplained that this Security, as well as Assistant type of central fire 1 secuvity Director Dolores Harris, Sergeant panel system •• ... has been in Chris Chadwick and student discussion for the last five years, supervisor Phil Giana, have set up and they had never really gotten a training program for the student into getting the thing. We had attaches to Security. As Mr. s~veral meetings and <liscussion!l Wood explained, \what · we're with Nancy Smith (a systems really aiming at here is to make analyst at the· Computer Center)· the person who's doing the job and Maintainance, and finally, we more responsible. Whether he went after the money f0r it and works the desk at . North or pointed out all the advantages of Richmond, or on the switch- having the central system here. •• board or with dispatching, we're New Admissions Staff - . Director Wood further trying to impress him with the elucidated ·that this,.,.. kind of fact that his function is very computerized system would be far important .. .it's nothing that can more than just a 'light board' be considered lackadaisical; he's designed to notify Security of a got to function as a student fire alarm in progress; again in his security guard.\ words, \it could also control fire For the regular security doors~ it could control ventilators Class .. of '81 • • The academic ~tatistics 'fDr the than. that. of previous classes. A Class- of·t981 have been released probable reason for these scores is by the Admissions Office in tetms the admission of the 20 6-year of SAT scores, class rank distri- Medical students.. High school bution, -and applications received. rank also se.emed to be quite: high. The number of applicatiO:ns for More than four-fifths of the class the class of 1981 increa'Sed by 8 . placed in the top fifth of their percent as did the number of class, about one-seventh placed in women applicants which the second fifthf and the increased from 27 percent cf the remainder either ranked in the pool last year to about 30 percent third ftfth or below. The number this year. The two 6-year of ~nrolled. freshmen from public J)rofessional programs comprise a· schools was also very high (about significant portion of the 90 percent of those · students applicants in contrast to previous ranked by their schoO'ls). years. An extra interesting The Admissions Office also statistic is that a record n1.1mber tabulated 354 secondary schools of freshmen nave declared in 19 states and 11 foreign themselves Liberal . Ads. countries are represented in the The SAT scores as .shown oli class, although a detailed study of the . accompanying ta·ble; 575 the geographical distribution of Verbal and 630 Math, shoW a the class of 1981 has not yet been obtained from the Admissions surprisingly high mean, higher Office. 1, J By RONALD A. SCACCIA The Union College eommunity extends a warm welcome tQ the three new Admissions staff members - Michael Andolina, Susan M. Brown, and Sandra J. Schwede. It is hoped that their stay here will be a truly exciting and rewarding one. Michael Andolina, Assistant Director of Admissions and Coordinator of· Minprity Re- cruiti 1g, graduated as a biology major from the State University of New York at Oswego. He received his masters in philosophy from SUNY at Binghamton and is a doctoral candidate of philosophy at SUNY at Albany. At one time a high school biology teacher, Andolina later became Assistant Director of Admissions at Becker Junior College in Worcester, Massachusetts. He also worked for the New York State Department of Human Services in Drug Rehabilitation programs. After having taught philosophy at Union for three years iQ. the evening division, Andolina is currently involved with the Black Student Alliance and the AOP office. Assis-tant Director of Admissions, Susan M. Brown received her bachelors degree in psychology and her masters in Student Personnel Services from Springfield College. She was formerly a member of the Women's Air Corps and has traveled throughout the woi'ld.Specializing in financial aid procedures in the Admissions Office, Ms. Brown will also wotk closely with the Financial Aid Office here at Union. Sandra J. Schwede, also ·A Profile Arts /Sciences Engineering 6-year Law 6-year Medicine Total 750-800 700-749 650-699 600-649 550-599 500-549 450-499 400-449 Other Total 750-800 700-749 650-699 600-649 550-599 500~549 450499 400-449 Other Total A COMPARISON 01<' APPLICATIONS RECEIVED Class cf 'Sl Men 'Women 1148 640 410 56 101 30 414 156 2073 882 CLASS OF 1981 SAT DISTRIBUTION VSAT Applied Aeeepted 25 23 100 95 258 218 485 398 590 400 630 327 414 123 212 41 226 49 2940 1675 App. 155 349 541 646 572 322 136 68 151 2940 MSAT Aec. 140 286 398 392 266 107 33 10 43 1675 '. CLASS OF 1981 ~ MEAN SAt'S Verbal-575 Mathematical- 630 ' . ·-. '·-· ·-·' . Total 1788 466 131 570 2955 EnroUed 5 20 46 102 131 114 53 16 22 509 Em, 21 67 110 121 lOl 51 14 4 20 509 employed as Assistant Director of Admissions, received her B.A. degree in history at the University of New Hampshire. After teaching history in high school for one year, she then took a masters degree in Chinese History from Tufts University. She was later employed by McMillian Press where she held responsibilities in the marketing area of the text- book division. Miss Schwede will specialize in Market Research and Analysis. Two Assistant Directors of Admission, Joe Zolner and Donald Underwood, have left the Admissions office this year. Joe Zolner is now Director of Student Development at Union,. and Donald Underwood is studying for a masters degree at the Annanberg School of Communications at the University of Pennsylvania. The Admissions policy will not be changing this year; however, there will be alterations in the internal organization of the office, with an increased stress on program development and individual responsibilities. Also, an increased travel schedule for the coming year ·will be pursued by .the Admissions group. As opposed to seventeen man-weeks of travel last year, the members will be on the road this year for thirty-weeks. The campus is indebted to the work of the Admissions staff for their key role in bringing together the diverse population of students who make Union such a fine institution. The best luck is bestowed on the newest members of the Admissions staff in the hope that Union may retain its proud tradition. BOOK SALE Sat., Oct. 1, 1977 9 a.rn.-5 p.m. Rain or Shine SCHENECTADY COUNTY PUBLIC LIBRARY Liberty & Clinton Sts. Records Children's Books Mysteries Books on Trani Paperbacks Best Sellers SPONSORED BY The Friends of The Library CONTRIBUTIONS: Used books and reeords in good condition should be labeled \Book Sale\ and left at the information de!lk at the central library. (No textbooks, please.) • I •. t • ~ • .. I.

CONCORDIBNSIS, Sqtembtr 2B, 1~77 Relaxing in t~e- Middle Room Lenox Road- ·Up Campus Housing by CINDY ARANOW and LISA KLEIN Five Man Suites Those people on campus and probably within a 50 mile radi1,1s of the school remember last year's havoc over Suzanne Dowling's Housing Programs. Now,· one term, one student council election, 500 freshmen ~nd nu.merous housing bills later, the campus ui in the .pJsition to fully realize tbtl effects of Ms. Dowling's controversial new plan. lack of security. Yet, despite all these· cons,. and. ihough waiting lists to move down-campus are longer than ever before, some students, when offered .the opportunity to move d9wn~ campus, have refused. (Some accepted for the reasons mention.ed above.) Spme sophomores living in Hickok contest that they love the crossing of culttJres. They are meeting new kinds of people arid havi~g ·~a lot of fun.\' They are also being exposed. to new experiences which Four is company, but five is a crowd, at least for the Union freshmen males who have been assigned to live in Fox House and Davidson House this year. Since the beginning of the term, five males have been forced to live in each of these suites. designed to house only four persons. Five males were assigned to each four man suite this fall to allow the college to offer admission to about sixty more high school seniors than was previously possible. About forty of these additional students have decided to attend Union. Yet forty other students scheduled to be in the freshman class here usually decide for various reasons not to come to Union, but fail to inform the admissions office of their change · in plans. When the exact number of these .. no shows\ this year is determined, the extra man in the four~man suites will be redistributed. It is hoped that this reassignment process will begin during the firs~ week in October. A four~man suite has two bedrooms contammg three desks, a bed, and a dresser, as well as chairs and a couch in the central living room. \It's a little cramped,\ said Paul Morrison, a freshman living in Fox House. '\But you can get used to it. Still, I'd rather there'd. only be four people here.\ The \extra ma.n\ in these suites can be accomodated in one Of two ways: He can either study and sleep in the middle living room or he can sleep, along with two other persons, on one of the bedrooms, wbich were designed for two people and are hard pressed for the extra space for a third. The fifth man is afforded additional living space if he chooses to live in the living room. But he is also faced with the disturbance of his roommates entering and leaving their rooms, which adjoin the living room. The only entranceway to the suites is through the living room, so persons in the bedrooms must walk through the living room if th.ey wish to enter or leave the suite. What effect, if any, the fifth person in the suites will have on the affected students' academic performance has not been determined. However, most freshmen seem to enjoy the additional social benefits pre~ s~nted by the ex. tra man. Five man suites have not been Cartoons, Cartoons Traditionally, the role of the cartoonist has been one of social activist; through his deft and oftimcs clever powers of graphic explanation, he can transform complex social or political issues into just so many strokes of a pen. The cartoon, then, becomes an extension of the social consciousness at large. Yet, there exists in this great and teeming metropolis a cartoonist whose approach to cartooning is so new, so radically d.ifferent and so uniquely analytic that some have dared say, \this man is genius· personified.\ Unfortunately, the general consensus is less than kind. ln an upcoming book, Lester cartoons rarely (if ever) have anything to do wit!} any articles they accompany; the superfluous captions beneath such cartoons merely serve to further confusion. The question may then arise: \well if the cartoons don•t make any sense, why are they included in the Union College Concordiensis ?\ The answer is: \Because.\ Is Lester's new genre of -cartooning a singular phenomenon? This author certainly hopes so. Because if such a trend catches on, the masses will be hit with such an immense array of pictorial inanities that many prominent sociologists question our ability to survive as a species. This, says Weiss: The Enigma Behind the Dr. Steinway in his Foreward, Enigma sometimes anthropol~gist Ames Stel·nway would severely cripple industry and center of intellectual thought, discusses the contemporary not to mention making it nigh unpopulanty of Mr. Weiss' unto impossible to get together cartoons. Says Dr. Steinway: · \Lester is that unique enough guys for an evening of embodiment of · and poker. genms In the final analysis, one finds mundanity. His cartoons are Lester Weiss' artwork to be the misunderstood not because they epitomy of senselessness. And yet, attempt t<: transcend a • spiritual just as Picasso went through his dichotomy between Mans lust for 1 d ·t· 1 'bl • · d · 1 · order and his need to be ra 1 tona ue peno • 1 IS . . fervently hoped by all who know · understood emotmnally, rather, • d 1 h'· tt... t L t t · . . . an ove 1m ua es er oo ts they are m1sunderstood because . 1 · 1 · h · h ' h ' h k f 1 . 1 . . mere y gomg roug a p ase. t ey rna e rom 1tt e to no p rh f tu . 1 f h' ,.. e aps u re exmp es o 1s se~e. d' 0 St . y' b k artwork will have some type of ea mg r. emwa s 00 ' point. however primitive. one cannot help but note that he u til th 1 t' · 1 h h • is absolutely correct. Lester's be··nn v et~' e 5 JUS ope e s 1 g cr p tc. the only housing difficulties facing Union students this year. Among the other housing problems have been the assignment of sophomores to housing units on Lenox Rd. as a result of the freshman housing priority lottery. But freshmen are getting restless about the additional person in the suites. Many feel that something besides financif.l.l compensation must be given. And, more importantly, they hope tllat the fifth man will hit the road before the leaves of autumn fall of the trees and hit the ground. The present housing policy is based upon the ·removal of all freshmen from Lenex Road. Filling down-campus housing with freshmen resulted in the placement of sophomores, previously holding priority over freshmen, in Hickok House· and up on Lenox Road. Many students were surprised and horrified, for .they had planned ~n living in the down-campus dorms and they found themselves up- campus. There are many reasons why students don't want to Ii·ve up-campus, including the inaccessability .of food, classes, and friends, the unattractiveness of the rooms ·and the rumored ~hey might have missed had they remained d.own,..campus. Those who walk i_nto the dorm with preconceiyed notions hav~ fewer problems than previously expected. Instead, they feel \psyched to get close.\ In addit-ion, there are cooking facilities in Hickok so that food is no problem. The only complaints have been their seclusion frorn the rest of the campus and the lack of opportunity to . meet the new freshmen. Of course, not all students feel this way,,, and it remains to be seen in the spring if these students will remain up~ campus. Hang Glider Appears by DAVID SCHMERTZ At- first glance, one might think it was the. resurrection of the legendary firebird Phoenix, as what appeared to be a massive silvery white bird lay resting upon library field. But if one was to gather up enough courage to ,approach the beast for a closer look, the figure of a human, seemingly at the helm .of countless cables and canvas would become apparent. And indeed, the master of the illusion turned out only to be a sopomore from Union College. His name is Brad Kushner and he is a hang-gliding enthusiast. But Kushner is more of an expert than he is an enthusiast. Having \flown\ hang~gliders for five years prior to transferring to Union fz:om Georgia Tech, Kushner has earned a skill rating of four. which permits the holder to fly just about anywhere and at anytime, and solely at his own discretion. Hang-gliding is a difficult sport to master and can be quite dangerous when attempted by those with improper training or equipment. Because a number of serious accidents have occurred in recent years, regulations governing the sport have been tightened significantly. Most areas which permit hang~gliding require that the flyer be cert~fied by the United States Hang-gliders Association. Not only is the sport a diffi<;ult one, but it is also quite expensive. The kite owned by Kushner was constructed at a cost of $1,300, which does not include the cost of harnesses, helmets, and transportation. Ellenville, · the nearest take~off location in the area, is an hour and a half away ';, .. Tak_e off! by car and devoted enthusiasts will often travel there three or four times a week, weather permittin,g. Hang-gliding is also a sport which requires either considerable courage or ignorant stupidity. Flyers readily soar to cloud base and prefer to leave the ground from cliffs at least 700 feet high. During the five years in which Kushner has \flown\, he has reached altitudes of better than 400 feet. Considering that hang- gliders are held together with 2\ aluminum supports, light~weight nylon wings, and W' steel cables, the sport is not designed to suit those with anything less than a death wish. Nonetheless, the possibility. of organizing a. hang,. gliders club lias not been rejected. Those interested need only perch themselves atop of the Nott and wait for the Phoenix to rise again. A by LIS If yol!: we1 of South C< 19 and' saw Union \Won would like South is n probably sa' Sigma Delta into their nc This year Gamma anc are making on carnpu membership is located it on Lenox previously house (bor< is now h members oi In order view of sc College. an arranged ' both so.rori pressed b< similar ide sorority set Amy Vl S.D.T. eq for bringin, were to f< dependenc) alleviatin dependenc) fraternities. great imp~ women he my first t~ great deal whatwas ~ their partie 1 am nature; t the lingu val :shoJ with a Monopo 'rainy c particula was rap The F11 original convers~ heard a at lilY d \Corn Altlt<Jug at this i had f counter) Heben 1 the pers me in D I magi chatteri1 'di~tJ.~Iie: .. '\

CONCORDIENSIS, September 28, 1977 A Feeling of Sorority men on campus had their house, by LISA VOERMAN tlleir frat to depend on. I j~st wanted the women to have the If yoU: were near the north end same chance.\ of Soutn College on Sept. 18 or · Judee Rosenberg, a member of !9 and saw .the strange sight of D.G., disagreed with Amy's Union -women moving in, we comments that a social depen- would like to inform you that dency should exist within the South is not co-ed. What you house rather than upon various probably saw were the women of fraternities. Sigma [)elta Tau sorority moving \I'd rather see the girls all be into their new home. independent and just live together play down the fact that women and men are so different,\ dismissing these expectations. \Women and men are not that different.\ In contrast, Amy replied, \'I disagree with you strongly. I believe that there is a great differ- ence between women and tnen. In regard to functioning as a house, I believe fl'om viewing this house as a whole group, that no matter how much womeJl can offer other women, there is always a n~ed for men. In this area the fraternities and sororities are very different.\ This year two sororities, Delta in the house and enjoy each Gamma and Sigma Delta Tau, other's company.\ Judee added are making their first appearance that she personally did not feel on carn~us. f?.G., with a any social pressure or dependence membershtp of thtrty•one women, upon fraternities in previous is located m Nortdh PoWtther House ' years. Liz Yager, president of on .Lenox Roa · . at w~s D.G., explains how D.G. began prevrously ~ean Lichterman s with a feeling of independence. ·~ouse (borden?~ South C:ollege) \Our group originated from a IS now housmg. the mneteen . orority kind of feeling on our members of S.D.T.. floor. What happened was every- In discussing the problems facing both new smorities, Nancy Moretti, S.D.T. treasurer, pointed out the fact that, \Sororities are like running a small business. There are many complications, and these problems are overwhelming. After all, there are financial duties which are complicated [ranging] \all the way from buying pots and pans to paying for formal rush parties.\ Both sororities feel that the frater- nities are lending a helping hand to get them started. Sigma Delta Tau leaves its mark Room Contest . In order to ?bta~n a compl.ete one would do their own thing vtew of so:onty hfe at. Umon during the day, but at night they College, an ~~formal meetmg was would come back to the floor, arranged wtth . members from when they needed it.\ both sororitie.s. Each sorority ex- Th. . d t • -< ·. e questton was passe o pressed both contrastmg an.a . . . h · ·1 'd · d t the both soronttes whet er or not stml ar 1 eas m regar · o · . . . . • women can mamtam a umty sotonty scene at Umon. . h' h · h · · f A . VI d' · 'd nt of Wit m t etr ouse m spite o my a tmu, prest e . · 1 · 1 d S.D.T. e\-plains: \My intentions certam soctaTh~xpect~tf~onlsl p a~e for britt in this sorority together on women. IS spect tc~ Y re 1 er- t g fg typ· e of. · 1 ·nter- red to the concept that gtrls travel were · o orm a · . h' h ld d' 'd h d . d b t th gt'rls m .groups w tc wou lVI e t e epen ency e ween e , . . alleviating some of the ho;sed mto :actlO:s. f dependency Union women feel for 1 ~ ~e \No~en ~rg .~ D.G., fraternities. Fraternities have a rep Ieh • S 0 a . 1 gtr s travel t · . t · lly upon the toget er. orne g1f s are more grea unpac soc1a · · . · . h h Th h P · 11 during mdependent t an ot · ers. e women · ere. ersona Y, t I' 1 my first two years here, I spent a fsame . ~oncep d atphp tes h 0 great deal of time thinking about raterntttes an ey ave survived.\ what was going on in fraternities, their parties and other things. The Liz added, \I think you have to In regard to problems between the women, Judee stated: \It's just too early to tell.\ \We're so busy working on the ho1,1se together. There hasn't been much time for thinking of anything else.\ \Although both our houses need work,\ added Amy, \the greatest part about living in them is the feeling of warmness you can only get from a house, that feeling that you're in your house, with your friends, and it's a good feeling.\ A feeling of Sorority. Does your college room look like the centerfold of Better Homes and Gardens? Or does it more closely compare to the Schenectady dump? In this interest of friendly competition Concordiensis is initiating a contest to determine Union's best looking room, worst looking room, and the room that has everything. For the next seven weeks we will be searching for the three rooms best deserving of those titles. If you think you have a room that even your mother would be proud of, or one that you hope she never sees, or the most original, unique and interesting room on campus, call 370-6866. Our photographers are standing by to capture it on film. Entries for all three categories are being accepted now, however contenders for the Oscar Madison Prize for General Dirt and Hopeless Mess will be judged first. If your room asks the question, \Can intelligent forms of life exist in this place?\ and you want the world to know it, call today. Top entries will be chosen by the staff of Concordy. Pictures of these finalists will be printed each week with a ballot on which Concordy readers may indicate their choices. A box will be available in the mail room for these ballots. We hope to present two weeks of best rooms. two weeks of worst rooms, two weeks of interesting rooms and the final week of grand prize winners. Girling Housing An interview with Dean Smith revealed that next week the construction of student apartments at Girling Center will be re-proposed. The original pro- posal was made more than three years ago by Dean Mark Smith and Provost William Enteman. The apartments would accom- modate upperclassmen, married students, and young faculty. Set back into the woods and done in a natural motif, they will blend in with their surroundings. The proposal calls for approximately ten building units with anywhere from three to ten apartments in each. At present, Girling Center is a recreational facility for Union College students. The dean did not mention whether or not it would remain as such after the apartments are built. The proposal will be made in the form of a memorandum from Dean Smith's office. Details of the plans are, at present, very vague. Considerations must include such points as transpor- tation accommodations and priorities regarding elegibility for the h<\lsing. More specifics will be avaHalJle when the admin- istration issues the proposal next week. Let the Geek Speak ;cade into my room, weeping. followed by several quick \Hello I said, \is anything explosions. My visitor, obviously wrong?\ His eyes were wide with agitated, began anew his litany of hysteria, and I inferred from his nonsense syllables, and the dorm physi~al condition that a. leisur- alarm was activated. Seeing Bob ely appraisal of Plato's Republic the RA pass by, I hailed him for was out of the question. an explanation. \M-m-m-m-m-my rooroo-roo- \Meteor alert. Stay away from roo- roommate was hit by li-li-li- windows; try to sit in the middle \ of your room and don't use the 1 am a peaceable man by \Lightning .. .is that the word phone unless it's an emergency or nature; to me, muddling through you're groP.ihg for? You're telling you're calling Little Vinnie's.\ the linguistic intricacies of medie- 111e that your roommate was hit \Why?\ val shopping lists ranks easil.Y by lightning: Well now ... how is \I could really go for some with a spirited session of he?\ extra cheese and anchovies.\ Monopoly for alleviating those \He's de-de-de-de ... de ~\ jerking his thumb up at my 'rainy day blues.' During ()ne \D~ad? Well, I suppose you've visitor, who was hanging upside- parti<:ularly torrential afternootl., I got a single for the rest of the down from the ceiling With his. was raptly transposing Spenser•s term ... unless, of course, they put fingernails firmly imbedded, the The Faerie Queene from th.e a transfer in with you; they''re not RA asked \Who's he?\ original Eliz.abe\thean text into a bad sort ~- in fact, I roomed ''I don't know. I think he lives conversational Yiddish when 1 with one last year and -\ on the third floor. Hey, do you heard a rapping (gentle tapping?) \I was standing right next to know if they cancelled the rugby at ny door. him! One minute he was walking game because of the meteor \Come in,\ I called ~heerfull~, with me up to the Computer Cen- shower?\ Altltough I was somewhat miffed ter dicldling his Texas Instru- \Nah; l think they just moved it at this impromptu disturbance, I ments, and the next minute ... - over to Daley Field.\ There was had forgotten the Semetic BOOM!\ another explosion. \Listen Todd, counterpart of the term 'deadly \1 guess that supports the old I gotta run. Take it easy.\ Hcben bowe apart,' and perhaps contention that God really is a \Sure. See you around.\ I went the person at the door would aid Humanities man at heart,\ I hack to my translation, and had me in ~y study. . . j chuckled heartily. worked on it for more t~an an . lmagtne my surpl'tse at seeutg.a Suddenly, a great yeUow light. hour before l remembered .about ,ch,a~etin~, chalk~White freshm.a~, .fi~l~~ u~ , the_·. L~~i'~~ . P.la,za~ , . m' yn~s:u~ .r~~m~~est.\. By this drtmlieti , bt n!=tvi>P3. J!wea~ ca.~ . , , . . , . , . . . , . . , . , . . . . . , . . . . , , . . , . . . . • ' . II f , . • • • · ' \ ' ' - ' • • t, t , t ' ' I • • • ' • \' ~ .- J t • • • • 1 I it < 1 ,.·_. ' .. time, howe~e-, he had fallen from the ceiling onto my bed, and had become fairly rational. \Uh ... is the weather always this bad?\ llaughell ~~ his naivety; his full-blown sense of innocence. \Of course not; only durin6 the mon~oon season.\ \The what? Holy ... hey, what\s going on outside?\ Peering out the window, I beheld a small group of displaced Vietnamese dressed in their traditional garb wandering about West Beach. \Who are ... what are those people doing?\ \They're starting to re-seed the rice paddies again. I personally don't mind it, but some upper- classmen came down with severe cases of malaria last yea~, and Suzanne thinks the paddles shoulc:l be moved to Lenox Road.\ By this time the water level was lapping at my second-level windowsill. My RA paddled by in a SAGA rescue-craft, and tapped at the window. \How's it going?\ \Not too bad. Water level's up a bit I see.\ Bob shook his head bemusedly. '• .. Yeah; some jerks from South stuffed up all the sewer drains with yesterday's Beef Stroganoff Parmisian, and me and the other SAGA workers have to dig the stuff out.\ \Any floaters yet?\ ''Nope. Hey, there's a card game going on at the roof at Webster if you're interested ... \ \Too much work to do~ Anyway, I don't think he (referring to my visitor) is up to a few rounds of poker yet.\ \Okay then, I'm off. Be seeing ya.\ ''Yeah; take care.\ With that he motored off to Steinmetz Hall to rescue some unfortunate six-year med who refused to leave Science and Engineering until his card packet had run. \This is a place for looney people! I'm getting the hell out of here Miami, Nassau Community night school -- only let me get the hell outta here!\ His tirade concluded, my slightly unstable comrade burst from the room and smack into a minor tidal wave that was meandering down the hall. I went back to my textual analysis, contented. I guess he's never been to Troy. ·•

.. j i Page6 CONCORDIENSIS~ September 28. 1977 culture 3rt6 Broadway Director RETURN 'fO ACADE!v.IE There is no summer there, nor spring, but only Fall, dull and dead, enclosed in musty wan that is our bound. Without, the lawned ground, and standing guard, the ivy rising 'round. Within the stuccoed hall voiced tones resound; there are the books and know ledge that should light us all. Why, then, seems only dimness, dull and dead, in pall? - Clara Keating Fine Lines, Coneordy's poetry column, is now in its second fantastic year, ready to help you share your poetry with the campus cormmunity. Everyone on campus is welcome to send ma.terial to Fine Lines ~ we especially look forward. to contributions from Freshmen. Any legible work will be considered, but typewriting will be greatly appreciated. It won't be possible to return contributions, so keep a carbon. Please include your name and phone number with the poems, but they'll be printed unsigned or with a pseudonym, if requested. Address poems, comments or questions to: Delaune Stageman, Fine Lines Editor, Box. 1738. We kn()W there are many writers out there and we look forward to hearing from you and seeing your work in print. b.y DIANE Dl FRANCO This fall term Union is privileg~d to have Ms. B.J. Whiting as gq~st direetor for \ ••• And Miss Reardon Drblk.s a Little.\ Ms. Whiting is the latest in a series of visiting theatrical artists sponsored by the TAP (Theater Artists Program) to come to Union. Through Presi- dent Bonner's generous offer to T A'P, Union will have the artistry of an experienced top director for its new fall play. Ms. Whiting has directed extensively both on and off Broadway, for the University theatre·. and summer stock productions. As the artist in residence at Duke, she directed such productions as Three Penny Oper• and Little Foxes. Ms. Whiting's backgr.ound also includes theatrical 11tudy both here and .abroad. Ms. Whiting is a welcome addition to our campus, for she is the first female director in Union College history. Her talents will be well shown in \ ... And Miss Reardon Drinks a Littlet a recent Broadway success. This production will also be a first - · ·it is the first show at Union concerned mainly with lives and dreams of women. This deeply touching, yet funny .play explores the souls and lives of three sisters, trapped in a crisis situation. Yet it is. much more than just a woman's play. Written bv Pulitzer-Prize Color Photo Workshop ~~ Phillip Harrillgton, a former staff photographer for Look magazine and now a commercial photographer in New York City, will teach an eight-session course in creative color photography beginning Oct. 15 at Union College. The non-credit course, designed to develop the aesthetic and technical abilities of both begin.:. ning and advanced amateur photographers, will be held from 9 a.m. to noon on eight consecu- tive Saturdays. Students should plan to bring examples of their work to the first session. The course fee is $135. pli.otography for the Cincinnati enquirer. lie has given workshops in ap:plied and color photography for the Professional Photo- gr~phers of America at the Winona School of Photography in Winona Lake, Indiana, and for the University of Syracuse. He has had one-man shows at the Universitv of Wisconsin. Ohio University, and the Brownstone Gallery and the Metropolitan Museum in New York City. Further information about Union College's offering of non- credit courses is available at the Office of Graduate Studies and Continuing Education, Wells House, 1 Union Ave., Union College, Schenectady, N.Y. 12308. ~····················* * . * * $ AIR FORCE· ! i R.O.T.C. i winner Paul Zindel, it etches unforgettable P.orlraits of women and men cauih.t in the private hells of their own souls. The cast for the precedent- setting show includes: Alice Tufel as Catherine Reardon, the alcoholic spinster; Koko Stim as Mrs. Petrano, the gossiping super's wife::; Julia Sma:gorinsky, as the domineering Ceil Adams;. Sharon Rubin. as Anna Reardon, the irrational and violent woman- child; and Rob lmrie, as the obnoxious delivery boy. The play will also highlight the talents of Jody Stollmack, as the erass, pretentious Fleur Stein and Chris Eschenberg, playing Bob Stein, her equally ·boorish husband. Stage Managing will be Kathleen Temev. Union The first in a series of Union College Gallery exhibits is at the Schenectady Museum until October 16. The three artists whose works are being shown are all Union College graduates. Gilbert Church . received a master of fine arts in painting from the University of Pennsyl- vania. His work consists of landscapes in a figurative style and portraits in oil. He maintains a studio in Shelburne, Vt. Robert Thurber, photographer and filmmaker, received a master of fine arts in filmmaking from New York University's Institute of Film and Television. He is Filmmaker•in-Residence at WIBT in Miami. Two of his films, \A Day Without Sunshine,\ a documentary about Florida's farmworkers, and .. Bethlehem,\ a documentary about life inside an Sept. 30 & 31 Ms. Whiting wishes to thank all the talented Union students who auditioned - it made the casting choices very difficult. For those interested in working as crew for this show, come to the Nott and sign upl Your help is needed io all parts of production; lights, sol,lild, set, cost1.1mes, props, makeup, publicity posters, etc. If you're interested in ushering, box office; or house managing, there are places for you! \ ••. And Miss Reirdon Drinks a Little\ is a concept new to Union's ca~pus. With the e~perienc;re-:arid talent of our guest director, B.J. Whiting, it should be one of Union's most successful shows. Performance dates are Oct. 28, 29, 30 and Nov. 2, 3, 4, 5, in the Director's Lab Theatre. Exhibit institution for troubled boys, have been shown on PBS. ·These two films wili be shown at the museum at a later date. A number of his photographs are included in the Gallery Show. The third artist is Jody Saslow, cinematographer. Mr. Saslow received a master of fine arts from New York University Graduate Film School. He is presently staff film editor for the \Candid Camera\ television series. His award winning film \Crosby Street\ examines the economic, social, and aesthetic strata of American culture found on an anonymous metropolitan street. He is also an accomplished still photographer and examples of his work are part of the Gallery exhibit. \Crosby Street\ will be shown at the museum on a date to be announced later. Course topics will include characteristics, 11ses and choice of color film, the use of filters and color , gels to enhance color saturation, indoor lighting tech- niques, and the uses of close-up photography in photographing nature. Students will document contemporary life and create color abstracts and impres- sionistic imagery, Harrington said. * * * * * * Is Now Being * ! Offered By : ALBERT'S BLUES Od. 7 & 8 Harrington, who will be available to work with individual students irt the afternoons follow- 'tng each forma\! course sess'ton, runs· his own b\;lsiness in advertis- ing, commercial and editorial photography in New York City. A collection of photographs chosen from Harrington's work in the late 1960's and early 1970's, while he was on assignment for Look magazine, was exhibited recently at the Schenectady museum. Harrington is a graduate of the Clarence White School of Photography in New York City. He is a former associate profes- sor at Ohio University's School of Art, where he taught graduate and advanced courses in commer- cial, advertising and documen~ tary photography. and more recently worked as director of ! RENSSELAER ~ * POLYTECHNIC ,._. * . . * INSTITUTE * * * ,.. * * * For inrormation contact: * * Captain Gary L. Fullmer * 3t A.S.T.R.C. Room 317, R:P.I. * * Phone: 270-6236 * : . : l********************~ PHIL PEARLMAN 1614 State St. Schenectady WHeRE YOU Ger A ~rl£ CP:DEP.. OF FUN Coffeehouse is looking for all ALL SENIORS interested in kinds of help: managers, ·• llpplying for a RHODES . tecllnieal crew, dough11ut · SCHOLARSHIP !ihould see WANTED: Anyone Interested WANTED: Anyone interested . getters, everybody! Remember • Professor Joseph Board (Soe. in publicity for Mountebanks. coffeehouse is what you want · . Sci. 2Hi) tor applications and in promotion for · Mountebanks. Contact Diane DiFrailcc; at 370-6552 or sign ·up, in the Nott .Green· R.oom. · ·Contact·· Diane DiFruco at and make it. If interested letails. · The deadline.. for 37 \·'..: nr Silil un in-the Nott contact . Mrs: . Man_ a ·i\1' 'tt,e_ .. ' '. appll'~atlons is O~t. 31. v-v ~:~.. \\ · · , · \\' · · · · · • \ ' · ·• i-: '·· · •· ···s·tu'' J~·e·~ .... ·t, .. A-hti' ~~n,:,5 O'ffice. · ' · · . . ., ' ·· ·· ·· ' ·· ·· · · · · · ··Green Room. · · · ·· \11 • y \\' _, .•• ..,, ....... _,·,., •.• ,. -C Carl Bet famqus 1! responsibl~ Watergate Union Co: ·who will M.ern-orial inaugural Union Cc series. A· students. The na list is co-1 \All the which he reporter their cov~ scandal. Their 1 197Z. re: investigat credited House infamous The rep every ttl: Due Concord with mo the hun for this · l/3 l1J l gree 1/2 t< small l· tabl ' I •• ·I I I I Tbi Di1 Pa1 M. Inc

CONCORDIENSIS. Septe~ber 28. 1977 Page 7 ulture Carl Bernstein Here Carl Bernstein, a partner in the including the Sigma Delta Chi famqus Wuhinaton Post· team award for distingqisl:led service in responsible for exposing the the field of Washington (:o.rres- Watergate affair~ will speak at pondence. the George Polk Union College Oct. 5. Bernstein, Memorial Award, the Drew who will speak at 8:30 p.m. at Pearson Foundation award, and Menlorial Chapel, is the won for the Post the 1973 P\llitzer inaugural speaker in thi~ year's Prize for public ~ervice. Union College Spe;lkers Forum Ber.nstein ancl Woodward co- series. Admission is $.75 for autho~;ed a second book,. ''The studeJ!ts. Final Days,\ which was ;published The nationally-known jouma- last year and chronicles Richard list is co-authot of the best seller Nixon's last months in office. \All the President's Men,\ in After a ten-year career at ther which he and Wiishi-.gton Post Post, Bernstein resigned in. reporter Bob Woo<tward traced ·December, 1976, to devote his their coverage of the Wa~ergate time to writing books, and his scandal. . current project is a book dealing Their team effort, starting inf with the McCarthy era. 1972~ resulted in a series of· Bernstein's writing continues to investigative articles that are ~to use controversy. In a current credited with exposing White issue of llolUng Stone mag~ine, House involvement in the Bernstein writes that roughly 400 infamous events at Watergate. Alllericari journalists, including The reporters earned virtualW correspondents for The New York every tnajot' journalism award, Ti~es, CBS News and a dozen other news organizations. have secretly sh~red information with ~ and .in some cases .provided Ql)erati<mal assistance - for the Cent~l Intelligence Agency over · the past 25 years. Bernstein was born in Washing- ton, D.C., attended the Univer- sity of Maryland and began his career in journalism at the age of 16 as a copyboy for the Washington Star. In 1963, at the age of 19, he :became a full-time reporter· at the Star and worked there until 1965. From 1965-66 he worked for the Elizabeth, New Jersey .Daily Journal before joining the metropolitan staff of Tile Washington Post in 1966. Wliile at ·the Ppst, Bernstein covered the police department, the courts, .city hall and the Virginia state legislature as well as doing investigative. pieces on slum landlords, police corruption, and drug traffic. THE UNION COLLEGE SPEAKERS FORUM presents CARL BERNSTEIN Concordy. Recipe Cor-ner Co-author of the bestseller '''ALL. THE PRESIDENT'S MEN''· frying pan Due to popular demand Cu~ onion and pepper into . Concordy's chef returns this term small pieces. and. fry in butt.er at with more easy recipes to tempt the hungry student. Neces~ities medium_ heat until they are spft, for this week's meal for two are: approximately 20 minutes. Push this to the side of the pan and l/3 lb. ground beef brown the meat. Then mix the I- green pepper pepper and onion , with the l/2 to l onion hamburger. Drain off excess small can (8 oz.) of corn grease. This is the tricky .part - 1 tablespoon of butter pref!lV>ts : I G H ·T TRENT ARTEBERRY and:. THE GREAT .E&TATE ·C: L u B Thursuay, September 19th. Diana Gazzolo - Poetry Paul Burns .- Folk Music M.C. -Brad lJ•rtY Incidentals.-; Todd Miller . 1=~1011 y OCT II./~ ttPM ~ LIJ Mill 0 YM #,s~ INCLUIJES: ..3 drl':'i5 eheeaeJ b~4J nu...-. -I'OI'tm:l lllhi'ID Sbows at 9:00 & U:OO Tickets will go on sale at 8:00 in.tbe front hall of Came&ie. Any left•over tickets will b~ sOld lilt the door. .Maximum • 4 tickets per person. · . ' try not to lose the edible portion •of the dinner in the process. Distribute the mixture evenly in the pan and cover it with the cQrn. Sh:{lmer for te_n minute11 or until the corn is heated. Then serVe. Gourmet touch: Top with buttered bread crumbs and bake until the crumbs are, toasted. * * * ~. * Share your - specialty with the world! Bring your favorite recipe to 402 North or slide it under the door of the Concordy office on the top floor of Carnegie hall. All . . MEMORIAL CHAPEL 8:30P.M. WEDNESDAY Oct. 5, 1977 Union College Students and faculty .... $ .75 Non- Unilan College Persons .. : $ 1. 50 recipes !ire kitchen tested by our •••••••••••••••••••••••••• panel of experts. BMI Awards Available A total of $15,000 is available to young composers in the 26th ·annual BMI Awards to Student Composers competition sponsored by Broadcast Music, Inc., a performing rights licensing organization. Established in 1951 in cooperati<m with music educa- tors and composers, the BMI Awards project annually gives cash prizes to encourage the creation of concert ritusic by student composers of the Western ;Hemisphere and to aid them in financing their musical educa- tion. Prizes ranging from $300 to $2,500 will b¢ awarded at the discretion of-the jUdges. To date, 225 students, ranging in age from 8 to 25, have re~ived BMI Awards. of age on December 31, 1977. No lintitations are established as to instrumentation, stylistic consid- erations, or length of works submitted. Students may enter no more th~n one composition, which need not have been composed during the year of entry; The permanent chairman of the BMI judging panel is William Schuman, distinguished Ameri~ can compos.er and educator. The panel of Preliminary Judges for the 1976-77 contest was . Netty Simons, ~reston Trombly an<\ Frank Wiggles- worth, with Ulysses Kay serving as Consultant. The Final Judges , were Mario di Bonaventura, Earle ·BroWn, Arthur Cohn, Charles Dodge, Miriam Gideon; Leon The 1977•78 BMI Awards Thompson, Heuwell tircuit and competition is open to student Gilbert trythall, with William composers who are citizens or Schuman as Presiding Judge. pen:nanept residents of the The thirteen winners in the Western Hemisphere and are . 1976-77 contest, ranging in age enrolled in ae<:redited secondary frQm 16 to 25, were presented schools, colleges and conservator- cash awards at a reception at the ies, or engaged in private study St. Regis-Sheraton, New York with recognized and established . City, May 12, 1977. teachers anywhere in the world. Special 25th Anniversary Entrants must be under 26 years Aw,ards were given to past Maurice - ,..,.._ UJiiOil Ji'er'l'hree ~ I\J•J St. ... SelriceA .... WorlMsA\il_. I winners of BMI Awaros who later won Pulitzer Prizes in music: George Crumb, Mario Davidovsky, Donald Ma.rtino and Charles Wuorinen. Edward M. Cramer, BMI president, pre- sented citations to William Matthews and David Koblitz, former BMI winners wh() received the Charles Ives Scholarships in Music from the National Insti- tute of Arts and Letters. Charles Dodge, a BMI w·inner who won the American Academy of Arts and Letters award in music,· was honored. William Schuman was pr~sented a \commendation of excellence for long and outstand- ing contribution to the world of concert music\ and in recognition of his years of faithful service to the BMI Awards to Student Composers competition. The 1971-78 competifion close$ February 15, 1978. Official rules and entry blanks are available from James G. Roy, Jr., Director, BMl Awards to Student Com- posers, Broadcast Music, Inc., 40 West 57th St., New York, N.Y. 10019. - FOR LIQUOR AND WINE Try Jake lipstein' s 464 State Street 374-1888 .. BLOODMOBILE IS ·. COMtNG - '

Page8 CONCORDl.ENSIS, September 28, 1977 Pictorial Orientation Review - - BUU RIDE 4 WANTED ToNew F 'leaving m returning.~ 370-6587. RlDE WANTED To-Come! between h4 Friday, C October I! RIDERS OJiFEREI To New I leaving nc RETURN There \\ for all se business s 4:30 inS! the meeti1 (Rm. 211, On We; College's! its first m station at to the grc A:ll are w' 9269. To the tenn and you Woif accommo •; f ,, -~ • or '.' I .... .~ .. .

Page8 CONCORDIENS/S, September 28, 1977 Pictorial Orientation Review j i \I I I ll ' I ; ' \ :~ I J i ' i :· i J ; \ 1t l ' l i ·! I I : l I ~ I I • - Blll RIDE WANTEI To New leaving r returning 370-6587. RIDE WANTEI To Corn between I Friday, October RIDER OFFER I To !'l:ew leaving n RETUR! There for all ' busines> 4:30 in ~ the rneel tRm 211 On \\ Lollege'> ito fit>l I ola!lon a IV the g All are 1 \12.b~. To Ill ll.'rm an you wo accomm ' ' .

CONCORDIENSIS, Sept~mber 28, 1977 Page~ ... JUDE OFFERED WANTED RI.DERS ·The lnterniltional J{eiE~tiollS Club will hold its first meeting of the year on Tuesday, Ociober 4. Officers will be elected and· .a list of .suggested ~peakers will be made.· We'll meet in the Student Activities Office at 8•00 p,m. All interested .stu<;lent~ are welcome. Any questions please contact Richard at 370~5532. To New Rochelle and lower Westchester leaving noontime J;'rid\IY. September 30 returning Sunday, October 2; Call Brian 111 370-6587. ASME MEETING RIDE oFFERED ).HDERS Mechanical Engineering students will talk about various summer jobs in the eJ;Igineeting field. All we:lco.me. Refreshme!lts .. Strauss Lounge, Tuesday, Ot;Jtober 4, 7:30. Reminder: Tuesday, October 18,. Engineers from Mobil will be here to talk abo~t engineering at Mobil and job opportunities. AU invited. WANTED To Cornell, Ithaca, {possibly also .points between here and there.) Leaving noontime Friday, October :14, returning S11nday, October 16. Call Brian at 370-6587. RIDERS WANTED !UDE OfFERED To New Rochelle and lower Westchester leaving noontime Friday, October 21. NO RETURN RIDE, Call Brian at 370-6587. tuesday night is game nlght in the Cabaret. Munch QUt on ~banana splits, .sundaes, coffee, pies ... Tbere are also ·over 75 ~ames to play. There will be· a :ver~ important ·meeting for all seniors lllinking of applying to ~ business school on Thursday, Sept. 29 at 4:30 in SS 115. 'Fbose who cannot make the meeting s!lould notify Prof. Kenney (Rm. 2U, Soc; Sci. Bldg.) On Wednesday at 7:31l, WlUC, Union College's amateur radio club will be having its first meeting. Meetings are held .in the station llt Haskin's Ljlb, which is adjacent to the greenhouse bepind North College. All are welcome. For info call Dave: 382- 9269. . ... To the guy whom it concerned last tenu and still concerns: My feelings for you won't \silently die\ if· you Sl<cretly accommodate them. If Y!JU.. have 11 refrigerator that you would like ·to. sell (any size), pleaoe c!lil370- ,6596. If you missed out on buying one of th$. · great looking \Orientation '77\ T -shirts or want to buy anotJter one, then you tare in luck. For only $2.50 yo-u can purchase the latest U-Coll cr;~ze. A limited .number of T- shirts ar~ still available in Joe Zolner's office in Student Activities in Carnegie Hall. Get 'em while it's still '77. Want to g~t involved in the THEATER? We need your help in the Box Office of the Nott Memorial. Very little till\e commitment is necessary. Sign up . · today in the Green Room of the Nott Memorial. Get Involved! · \I FEMALE 'CUCKOO'S lEST.' ***1/z* A beauUfully acted film ... the perfor- mances are all superb. Kathleen · Quinlan's performance as Deborah truly illuminates the woole film. She is so terribly convincing in this impossibly demanding role that there is little doubt that we will be see.ing a great deal of her in the future.\ -Kathleen Carroll, New Yorl< Daily News \'lOBE IAIIDEI' LIMIS Dill BORDEIIS OF REALITY. How Deborah with the help of one remarkable doctor, is eventually able to recognize her own pain and thus come to some kind of terms with her demons is the moving substance of this film that leaves one almost as exhausted as its heroine. Kathleen Quinlan ... gives a remarkable fine, contained performance a·s Deborah.\ -Vincent Canby, New York Times \ ... A female version of 'Cuckoo's Nest' ... but 'Rose Garden' is much more honest, tess manipulative.\ -Howard Kissel, Women's Wear Daily Starring Bibi Andersson ·Kathleen Quinlan ·Sylvia Sidney Martine Bartlett ·lorraine Gary • Signe Hasso Susan Tyrret'l •Diane Varsi Executive Producers Roger Corman & Daniel H. Blatt Produced by Edgar J. Scherick & Terente ·f. Deane Screenplay by Gavin lambert and Lewis john Carlino Based on a \ov<il by H.annah Green •Directed by t\.nthony Page . . A New World Picture . R RESTRICTE(.lo STARTS TODAY! On Sat~n\day;Oct. 1, b~twee~~: l:O() and 5:00, the Cabaret wUI be holdlag general auditioJIS. Anyone inte(ested in.~erforming is W13lcome to attend. We nce<:l ail kiiids of acts. This is ju$1 so we can get an idea of your work. Ifs not necessa;ry' t:o have a polished act at tlti~ time. So ;cmae,o-ut aqd shqw us what . ,yoi! can cio!' AI~; on Thursday, Sept. 29th, at 4:3;() i21 the Cabaret, there will be .am. e>pcn: staff meeting. All those interested tn participating in any facet of' the organization - WE NEED Y QU l! WRUC News needs you. ~o -experience ner;essary. If you are inter~sted in cloing a news broadcast there are many spots still open - both during the VJeek !Uld on weekends. No license is needed,. It y<Jn are interested;· contact Sheryl (37\'-9701) ·or Herb (370-6565), or leave y01.:u:n:ame at the . station on the second floor oF Carnegie Hall. BE(:OME A MEMBER OF THE WRUC NEWS TEAM! A gymnastics show MA ¥ be available in213 Fox: at some point dui~.g the next week. For info. contact Andll'ea, but watch out, she's mean! for lessons in interio.. clecorating, contact one of the cnunbs in 210 Davidson. They have a room' worthy of -~-(fill in the blank). ATTENTION!' Mark .(alias \Doc\) }'ou are psychologically ·a<idic'ted to .MARIJUANA! There is no kno\VII cure. You are doomed. Forever! _,J):r, Thadeu!l J. Quagmeyer, M.D. \I sal( Mark alias \Doc high heels and . stockings: DOC IN DRAG! C:OOK, DOC, COOK! GO! <JO!\ Tbe new r01:k group \'Doc a11d the Sodomltes\ starring Marvel<Ous Mark \The Doc\ on a really class.)' d:even string guitar) will be 'Performing tome»rro~ night behind Carnegie Hall. All tllose i11terested are invited to a really kinky !)arty in Mark's room afterthe show. Clementine loves you too. Dori ~ At le;1st English tvluffins are lighter than bricks. - roomie Happy Birthday Pizza (Rith)! - Me& Thanks for the talk - l\1 t .Donna and Lisa Need any more help With your mom? lt turned ·().:Ut looking great. (And, the cakes were qelicious. Thankst) '\'\!_hoopie for ZOOLOGY! Thank you Jeff Walber foT .the ride, and for helping us paint!!' -C. and S. HeUo Luciano Tbank y~u Mlll'k \Dete.-ge~:~t\ for the hand you gave us Wednesday. - The Painters Steve M. in 151 - Kansas City Royals, World Champions 1977 Andy, Marty, . Brian and Craig \ fellow Lawrencian~'Welcome to Union. What happened. to Steve Grill's beard'! B. G. is still a, little impish man! Arks are now avai!~tble at 1037 Gillespie Street. Get yourself ·on; while the suooly J,.~t~:· Where is:!he staff? Matt 'E. - the Union College is anxiously awaiting an improv depicting one of your professors. Turkin- T)lanx! To Tur!Un I, Turkin ll, Perry and 6· yr. good eggs. Ia imp. To the \S~:otcb\ man who thinks gin will do the trick too: How was your summer? I haven't had the chance to ask yet. !Jey, Geek just had his nose fixed. How does he smell? Terrible! • Lost: my entire wararobe of exotic prophylac~ics. Actually, they're just for show, but you never know. If found, please return to 'an anonyiJlous Polish person who W~»'!cs for Conco~py' c( o this paper, or just\ dtop 'em off on third floor Davidson. Dear Laura: I can tell your mind is faulty I Cause you come from I Baltimore. Kathie: say 'partly.' There onee was a man from Nantucket I Who carried his clothes in a bucket·; The tail of his shirt I Always drags in the dirt I So his mom nicely told him to tuck it (in). Hey Blondie: your hair looks really nice! Only kidding. Nap be nimble 1 Nags be quick 1 Nags can co I And suck my collection of dried aardvark intestines, Anyone interested in receiving a comple- mentary copy of \Rags On Nags\ can receive same by notifying this paper. Need papers typed, inexpensively and efficiently.? Hey, so do I! Anyone interested in entering the Sherman Plunkett look alike cnntest should contact Mr. Richard! Delaney(#79). Mr. Delaney bas expressed interest in giving the title to some worthy contestant. Neil \the Torch\ is back!!! Where did that table come from??? Irene - I know you don't mind sharin~ your boyfriend. So I'll have him tonight.· -guess who? Welcome Jl!lck P.C. The Geek is back but something is missing - but what? Girls eating out! R..S. - 'Jhanks ·fur putting up with u~. ..:.s.s. Ml!lrtha: nl never forget the W ' spoon, grl)at fuod at T on the G, a swing• \. time at \Wed)lesday's and the Night~ •\ Broadway! · Meg Heater Pooper - How do 1he; Chine , clean typewriters? -- ZiZi . Mira lll!d Pat: Have a vel¥ hapr, birthday. - !\lese, Alyssia, Cheryl ~,,,. Lisa Crisco, I love you - A Jeff A. ·· Doesn't Yamaha m~t · Motorcycle~\ ; Paul - It can happen to anybody! Doe- Does your trumpet go as high ,., . your voice, toot urn~ TurkiD loves those little Carb,. :1 molecules. Duny Please stay away from th' ' fl~or windows. Man with ene gona!l seeks company nl mlln with one gonad to ·discuss why rteithe: of them have two gonads. All interestc-.: parties should contact the infamous \Pap .. Nags\ cjo this newspaper. Hello, Andy? Yeah, can I speak • . · Matt? Hey, same to you, walrus-breath! Neat, clean science major needs pharmo.~­ ceutical cocaine for independent stud~ project. If you have some, please call Mail (\Bloody Left Nostril\) Nagorsky c/o th·l' paper . identify this quote, and get to play with Rotundi's beard: \Jumbo Jack. with cheese sam onions.\ Yo Blurrie: toss you for who gets to be dominant tonight - le &eke. I wiD pay tup dollar for new or used men's facial hair. If interested or can he~ J. please contact Matt (\Joe Testosterone\ ' Nagorsky cj o this paper. Diane R.; Listen, Bugfoot, just because I'm a.Virginian now, doesn't mean you can forget about me. I cherish your friendship Love, .. Daniel» · To General Electric's Ed, don't th1r. >. your revolting ways are gonna shock m~. Artoo Deetoo Deb: I'm looking forward to a fun ye., as your roomie!- Your roo_mie Applkations now bein& accepted f,. passage on the 300 cubic {ciiblt Ar]! , nO\'. under construl:tion in the defunct M r~ Perkins' Garden. Hurry now to . resen, your stall ; on this fantastic cruiso:: Applications' postmarked later than October 26, 'L977 will not be accepted (Remember, only 28 days to go!) Fo: details, see Noah in the basement '\ Philosophical Hall. ALL PRE· LAW SENIORS Representatives of tlh: • ~~~;~: 1;; §=~~~~e:~u :; ! Yearbook people, we 11eed (ODvenatlons in Professm ; youl Board's omce, Soe. Sci. ltci, ot I UniGn Book is loO'ld .. a for: Dutch Hollow Game Room the following times: - photographers will be open starting Monday, OCT. 5 - Prof. Melv~n. ..... layout Sept. 26. Tbe Game Room Sbimm,. Duke University Li~\<· ; - copy Hours are: I School, 9:30-12:00 noon. ..- other human beillgs, no Mon.·Thurs, 12-10 OCT. ;~ Dean R'.£ experience needed!!! Fri.·Sat. 12-12. i Stelntu~inw,:. Washington 11m,:· Meeting for all lrUerested Sun. 12·8 f Lee Law School, 3:00-4:2·· Monday, Oct. 3, Tl3(), in TheN! are four pin'baU p.m. Student Activities l..otiQ~e. - machines, a foosball tabJe, OCT. lO - Prof. usH, ~~.:L·~·m•9,9f$'l., t\.oi;-4~.?tat.Jt:. ~·.,~ pin~nl. ~~e, ~PIJ A'tl .. hikt.~ , ~ L• ,1< .~w~ ~~~~o~ ,,, J-•w .•· Jii~()9!. -!7Y;Ii4mt•itifft,mti&,~lf-(~~fto\ '·'\\ · ~ ';'~~dox .•.•... - ~\.~. ~ ..... _;'/u' ·J9:M• .. a(,tif..U:3G·'p.m'. • ··~-·...-. 6697)

l 1 l I ; ·! \ I CONCORDIENS/S, September 28, 1977 Page Y ~ . . ~ . . . . . ,_ ' . . ' :· ' . . ' ' ' ' ' . . . . . . ~ . · .. classifieos RIDE OFf\ERED WANTED RIDERS To New Rochelle and lower Westchester leaving noontime F ri{}ay, September 30 returning Sunday, October 2. Call Brian at 370-6587. RIDE OFFERED RIDERS WANTED To Cornell. Ithaca, (po>sibly abo points between here and t llere.) Leaving noontime Friday, O.:tober 14. returning Sunday. October 16. Call Brian at 370-6587. RIDERS WANTED RIDE OFFERED To !'<ew Rochelle and lower Westche;ter leaving noontime Friday, October 2!. NO RETURN RIDE. Call Brian at 370-6587. There will be a ~ery important meeting for all '\ntor thmking uf appl)ing to busines~ school on rllursday, Sept. 29 at 4:30 in SS liS. Those who cannot make the meeting >huuld nutif) Prof Kenney (Rm. 211, Soc. So. Bldg.) On \\ednesd!l) at 7:30, WUT, l~ni<>n Lollege·, amat~ur raJw dub \'ill b.: ha\lng it> fir>t mcetmg. Meeung' dre held tn the >tauon at Ha~l.m', Lab, \.\h1ch i> adjacent tu the gr~.:uhou,e behmJ 'onh ( uil\g<:. All are welcome. l-or tnlo .:all Da1 e; 3!5::!· \!loY. To tbt- guy whom it concerned last tenn and ~till cO>ncerns: My leeltng' tor you won't \silent'ly dte\ tf you ~cretly accommodate thern. The International Rel .. tion~ Club wtll hold tts first meeting o! the year on 1 uesday, October 4. Officer' w 1ll be ekct~J and a hst of suggested speaker~ will h~ made. We'll meet in tht: Student Actntlle> Office at !tOO p.m. All intere't~d 'tudenh are welcome. Any que•tions plea;e contact Richard at 370-5532. ASME MEETIN(; Mechanical EngiAeering student!. \\.ill talk about various summer Jobs m the engmeering field. All v.eic<>me. Refreshments. Strauss Lounge, Tue,day, October 4, 7:30. Reminder. rue,da'. October 18, Engineers from M,>htl w 1:! be here to talk about engineering at 1\1 obtl and job opportunities. All invited. Tuesday night is game night in the Cabuet. Munch out on ,banana split>, sundaes, coffee, pies ... There are also over 75 games to play. If you have a refrigeralor that you 1.wuld hke 10 ,en (an) ~lLe), pka>( call J70· 6596. If you missed out on bu} ing one of tlul. great lookmg \Onentation '77\ ·1 ·>hirt> 01 want to buy another one, then )OU art! m luck. l·or onl) $2.50 you can puicha>c the latt:>t L -Coli cruc. A hrn11ed nu.nhcr u: I- shirt> are >till a~ailable in Jue Zolner\ office m Student Acti\lllC> in C.uncgtc Hall. uet 'em v.htle It'> >Ill,! \77. 'ltant to get inwhed in the THEATER? We need your help in the Box Office of the ;\;ott Memorial. Very little lime commttment 1' neces>ar} Stgn up today m the Green Room ol the !'<ott Memorial. Get Involved! \A FEMALE 'CUCKOO'S lEST a' ***1/2* A beautifully acted film ... the perfor- mances are all superb. Kathleen Qwinlan's performance as Deborah truly illuminates the woole film. She is so terribly convincing in this impossibly demanding role that there is little doubt ttlat we will be seeing a great deal of 11er in the future.\ -Kathleen Carroll, New York Daily News Q\ROSE BARDEll~ liMIS Dill BORDERS OF REALITYa How Deborah with the help of one remarkable doctor, is eventually able to recognize her own pain and thus come to some kind of terms with her demons is the moving substance of this film that leaves one almost as exhausted as its heroine. Kathleen Quinlan ... gives a remarkable fine, contained performance a·s Deborah.\ -Vincent Canby, New York Times \ ... A female version of 'Cuckoo's Nest' ... but 'Rose Garden' is much more honest, I ess manipulative.\ -Howard Kissel, Women's Wear Daily On S11turday, Oct. I, between l:OO 11nd 5:06, the Cabaret will be holding general nudilions. Anyone intere>ted in performing I> welcome to attend. We need all kind; of •c~>. l hts IS just so we can get an idea ol vnur work. It's not necessary to have a polished act at this time. So come out ~nd ~how us what you can do! Also, on Thursday, Sept. 29th, at 4:30 in the Cabaret, there will he an open stafl meeting. All those interested in participating m any facet of the organization -- WE NEED YOU!! WRliC News needs you. No expenencc necessary. lf you are intere>ted in doing a news broadcast there are many spot;, sui! open ·· both dunng the week and on weekends. No license is needed. If vou are interested, contact Sheryl (374-9701) or Herb I 370-6565), or leave your name at the station on the second floor of Carnegte Hall. BECOME A MEMBER 01- I Hl: WRUC NEWS TEAM! ·PERS~ A gymnastics show MAY be mvailable in2P Fox at Gome point during the next week F<>r info cnntart 1\ndrea. hlll watch out. she\' mean' For lessons in interior dt>rorating. contact one of the crumh' m 210 fla, id,on The,· haw a rnnm \\rth\' of ___ (fill in ihe blank\ ATTENTION! Mark (aha, \llnc\) You are p~ychologtcall) addicted '\ MARIJUANA! There is no known cure. You are doomed. Forever! - Dr. Thadeus J. Quagmeyer, M.D. Ml Sll'l'( Mark alias \Doc\) weanng high heel' and stoc~ing~ DOC I~ [)RA.(i' C'OOK. DOC COOK • GO' (i()l'\ The new r01:k group \Doc and the Sodomites\ >tarnng Marve!ou;, Mark \The Doc\ on a really classy eleven string guitar) w1ll he performing tomorrow night hehmd Carnegte Hall All tho;,e tntere~led are mnted to a red:l) h IIlii.) pari) m Mark\ room after the show Dori '\t k.~,t ~ ngh'h !\1 uf:\'' \''' lighter than bncks. · roomie H2ppy Birthda) Pizza (Rich): • Oonna and Lilia :\ced dU) mute llclf> \lollh jtJUI hHllll., It turned \lUt l~h~t...m~ great. tAnd, the UJke' v.ere del1uou>. Thanks!) 'Wboopie for ZOOI.OGV: Thank you Jeff Walber for the ride. and for helping us pamt 111 C. and S. H.ello Luciano Thank you Muk \Detergent\ for the hand you gave us Wednesday The Painters · Sle\e M. in 152 · Kansas City Rov:tls. World Champwm 1977 Andy, Marty, Brian and ('ratg fellow Lawrenc,ans\ welcome to ·Untor. What hap~ned. to Steve Grill'> b<:dl u : B. G. 1s sttll a,llttle impish man! Arks are now av~ilahle at ltl37 Gillespie Street. Get yourself one-\wlulc the suonlv le\t. Where is tte staff'J Matt E. the Lnwn Collet(~ 1' anxiously awattmg an tmprm dep\ ung one of your professors Turkin ··· Thanx! To Turkin I, Turkin U, Perry and 6- yr. good eggs. Ia imp. To the \scotch\ man who thinks gin 111 ill d<> the triLk ton Hnw wa' \'<>Ur summer'' I ha\en't had the chance to ask yet. Hey, Geek just had his nosr fhed. How does he 'mellq Ternble' • l.ost: my entire \'arilrnbe of ex ••tiC' prophylactic' Actually. they're just for show. but you ne,er know If found. please return \' 'an ;JO<>nym<>\]\ Poh'h r··r·<>n who wOl·)<s for (\>nce>rpy' co th1' paper. or ju\t- d'rPr 'em off ,,n third jl,.,,,: Davidson. Dear l.sura: I .:Jn tell \uur m1nJ ,., f<1ulty . Cau>e) ou <:umc fru~ Ba:ttnl< >r~ Kathie: say 'partly.' There once w&~ a man from !\iantuckel Who earned h1' clothe' 1 n a !'out·ket · Tht: tatl ol hl> >hlrt ·\h•ay' dr.;g, rn the d t'l So ht• morn mcel) told hun to tuck tl (iO) Hey Blondie: ~our hatr lllok> really nice! Only kidding. :oo;ogs be nimblf '\ag' he ljtlld '\g' can co 1\nd 'uck m,· ~,•llect1on ol dned aardvark mtestmes. .&;nyone intert\'ifd ,~ ct'r<\;\in~ a ,,,.,rJe. mentarv cnp\ ol \R.tg' lln 'ag' · .Jr·, rece1ve 'arne h\ IH>tll\ m~ th\ paper Need papers typed, mexpen>t\CI) Jnd efficiently? Hey. so do I 1 Anyone int~rf~ted m entering the Sherman l'!ltr.~c·<t 1 · ·I .ti<ke ... '\'t ... hl'Uld cnn1.tlt \ir R11.:h.1rd' Delant:\t:t\\'Q) ll.lr netane' ha' ··xrre\ed intere'1 111 giVIO_g the til it: \1 1 'tlnll' v..•rth~ Ct\n!t•>,t ti Neil\the Torch\' i> hack!!' Where dal th;tt table ~oume I rom.\' Irene I knov. )OU don't mmd 'harm~ your boytnend. :-.o I'll ha'e h1m tumght -- guess who? Welcome back P.C. The Geek il; back but ;,omethrng i ... missing - but what? R.S. - J hanks for pl!tting up with . s.s. M!irtha: r:c · · f<>rge: !he \'. spoon, grco · '''· >d .1t I on the r. d >W 11<1 ttme at ~v. .. nc>day·,,\ and thr -.;tght' Bmadway' '\.hg Heater p,,,,per Hulh du ·•c. Ch,, clean typev.' , ·~·,\ 7..iZi . Mira and Pat: Ha1e a , \ry ha: · birthday. /\lese, Alysslll, '·netyi , Lisa (ris(:o, I I· ·•c you - A Jeff A. M•>torcycle• Pi!nl -- l t on h<ippento anyb,>dy! Doc - [h,c> ) uur numpet gv J.> higt your voice, toot um~ Turkm lo1·e> tho>c littk Carl'> molecules. Dann)' Plea'\e \'a! a~Aa: fn1m t 1 floor window, !l•hn with nnf gona~ 'e~k' mmpa n' man Ywlth ~)ne gunal! [tl ·dis.cu..,~ v.h\ neitJ ol them h .. ,, 1\\c> f<>rldd, r\1! 1~terc,, pJ.rtic~ .,fhlli.:,' ·. ''ntad the infatn,)U\ up,. ~\'g~··\\ ... ~ th., ;,~ ... ·r.tplr Hello, And)' Yc.1~ can I 'peak ~1.1tt'' He),-..,:.:.-.;, . .,· ... v.;.dru ~'!\\l'.ttl~' :\<ieat dea11 .,.;ienc' major llL .. h i''\\ ceutical ClllJII\c ;,,r indepen,Jent ,li project. If Y<'U have \'me plea«· call 1.,1. (\Blol)d) l.t:ll :-,,\tr .I .. 1 :-o;ag'\'' .: '' 1 papeL Identify this quote, and get I<' play WI' Rotund1's t.eard. Jumhc• Jack. ··•'tn chet una t.1nton~ Yo Blume: t \\ v<>u for wh,, !lets to ~ dominant tomght I~ geke. I wiU pay top dollar for neu. or u\ mcn'~tactai t.n: lr .::tere..,ted l·; .. ..tn h(.- plea~e cunt....t~. \1dl~ ··;,le I e .. ~.1~tert.m:.. Nagorsky c ,, ·h1' raper Uiane ll.. l'r .. a Vug, ..... :. t,ot)let dbOLI' Love, \Daniel\ : 1 '~: \ ~. :. '1(,.' ... ' v.., •t_\•n't f11C. wOU ,;_ To Generol Fiertrir\ Ed, ,' ,n't th )tll.lr rc\l,;• e, \.1.... 1:·. gl'nn(l .\1'-H.:k r:· \\oo Dret\ Deb: l'n. .., .. ,: ·I•.Hd '' . tun ' as your room,e: \our roo.mie Applkation5 no,. being attepted • , passage on the 300 cubic \cubit Ar,k n< · under construcuon tn the defunct M: Perkms' Garden Huny nov. to re>ei your stall ·, on this fantasllc crut' Applications · postmarked later lh ,, · October 26, 1977 will not be accepte: {Remember, ''\1:> 28 day& to go!) }- details, see :--;uah 1:. the ba-ement Philosophical Hall ALl PRE-LAW SEMOR.\< Girls eating out! Representstlves of th· Staning followlnE law ~chools will b Sil>i Andersson ·Kathleen Quinlan ·Sylvia Sidney available for interviews '' . 1 . . Yearbook people, we need \onve- .. tion• in p,., 1 r,..o.,,, lv\arhne Bart ett ·lorrame Gary· S1gne Hasso .. ..... \' t-.\\' Susan Tyrrei'I·Diane Varsi you! --~ Board's office, Sot. Sci. 216.' · he<uliveProduce\ Roger Corman & Daniel H. Blatt Union Book is looking for: Dutch Hollow Game Room the followh•2 times: Pro<lucedby Edgar J. St:herid< & Terence F. Deane photographers will be open starting Monda~. OCT Prof. Mel':.' screenpl.av bv Gavin lambert and Lewis john Carlino layout Sept. 26. The Game Room Shimm, Dt!;.i: LnivernH} L. n.-.,d on a povel by Hannah Green •Directed by Anthony page copy Hours are: School. 9: H-11:00 noon. A New World Pidure other human beings, no Mon.- Thur<;. 12-10 OCT Deaf! ~~, I I RIRESTRICTErioi expuience needed!!! Fri.-Sat. n .. u Steinhe: ,~ ashingt,•n !<:. l--~S~T~A~R~T~S_T~O~D~A~Y~l __ l__J~- .. ·~·=··~ .... ~-·~ .. ·-~···~· .. -~-·~·~:: .. :J:!._j Meeting for all interested Sun. i2·!il Lee h¥. 'dJool, J:00-4:. Monday, Oct. 3, 7:30, in there are four pinball : p.m. MOHAWK MAll UACENTER 1·2 Student Activities Lounge.- machines, a foosbell table, i OCl. w - Prof. u~l; · · • • .. ' • · • ~~1.-l,lO~i\ ~I)~V, '• • • • • • \t~4.·.1lJ .~J')\J~~~:f§·, , · · #1.1; .'t$f~ffh~fi·'\'lrJ..qfl}ne ~1.~9~~11,,, .· nin.o ,.o_,ono·, t\'h 1 e, J.l p..t ,11 lu.·.ke. ·\!' .• ~· .... P ....... t •• ,.\Z~.n .. n .on! . Law. s--~nn! .·:: • .• ·• ~s<:liENE..Cf)f~IJY.~.~,~.·'- ~ ~.·J~t . .t.;,1(;.0.~~ .... Jr .. <.-• .•• =., .• !· r.,..,. • ( - 0 '!..~. A...JI r \' ... - \\t\ t · ·· ~<\' ........ ~ \' \\ \\'\\'v- . • ' ~·· . 1.& 1H om' K f' ... .. .l • '···~0:1:1. ' •• ·' ... ~. •• ·' ·' . .- , :• 9·00•'tl m'·ll·30 'n m' ·' ....... • ·' ·'. 370-1920 459-2170 6697) . - . . . . ·~ .y. . ·--------- .. -- __ I - ·~-----·-------____]

Page 10 CONCORD!£NSIS, $f!ptember 28~ 1977 ...... 6porte \ UColl Ruggers Kickoff With Dollhle Win 0 ~r· ne \1ew ••• by ALLAN MOLHO Rugby. ..:.ontrary to popular :~t,ught is r.ut a game played by a , .: :Kh vf L:·::ies running ::; 10 ~:ff~rcnt ditc..:tions. ImteaJ, a~ ·'::~ reporter found out attcr1diag ':~ fint rugb) game,. it is a fluid ·: ~ani1-:d g;,me with pu:-pu~c. ·':::ilar t~,; \merican fuc~ca::. ' 1 ·. we'-~ r, rt~gby has ~.::~<J~ ~ (c'astant action and excitement ::J....: so..:..:cr. Tht: momentum uf the ..,;.!:ne ~- . .m ~h.mge instantly [r>:im tlne team tu the other. lt can either be fast-paced or slow moving, with massive battles of strength. Many people are not aware of the rugby rules. Basically, they are: ( 1) Forward passing is illegal. Instead, piayers must only pass behind them. However, the ball can be kicked in any direction. (2) Teammates must stay behind their 'man with the ball. Each side is made up of15 players; and stopping an attacking player is done through the process of tackling. (3) After a tackle or an infraetion, both teams go into the scrummage (serum) which has to be seen to be explained or believed. A \try\ is 4 points (similar to a touchdown). A place kick through tne uprights is worth 3 points, and 2 points after a try. After 5 minutes of watching the game and knowledge of these few rules, one can enjoy a rugby game as much as this reporter did. The game last Saturday between Union and Hartwick was played mostly in a heavy downpour. A determined Union squad led by their coach Glenn Meyers were eager to start their season and the rain simply would not deter them. In the first half Union got off to a quick 3-0 lead on the place kick by \'like Forcier after a Ha-rtwick penalty. During the rest 0f the ha if. Union was constantly threatening deep within Hartwick territory. Union had a few great chances to score a try but it seemed that Hartwick's defense bent time and time again but never broke. and Union failed to score again. Despite the muddy field, the Dutchmen made many fine tackles and handled the ball very well under the rainy conditions. In the fina-l half the momentum of the game slowly switched to Hartwick as they seemingly gained. confidence. Slowly pushing further into Union territory each time they had possession of the ball, Hartwick attempted to score a try but Union's defense seemed to stiffen and pushed Hartwick back each time. With time waning, rain falling and Hartwick threatening, Union, with a sudden surge, drove deep downfield and finally off a crum, Pete Felker took the ball in unassisted for a try. The place kick aftetr the score was good and this made the. score 9-o. Nor long after, time ran out and the Garnet had their first victory. The B-team also · played, and they gained valuable experience as they won 3~0 ·against the same Hartwick team. Coach Meyers was very pleased with the way the whole team performed. The players were satisfied not only because they conquered HartWick, but also because they overcame the elements in gaining victory. Sokalo Continued Continued from Page 1 financial aid should be provided to students solely on the basis of need - in other words, no athletic scholarships. He also writes that students should be admitted on the basis of their potential as students. \Everything we do in the athletic department should be consistent with the goals of the college as a learning institution,\ he said. ''No member of the department can promise a candidate admission.\ Other members of the college administration believe that Mr. Sakala will be able to allow athletics - which he admits is still a \sensitive issue\ ~ to assume a role at Union that will be acceptable to all persons. \l think Mr. Sakala will establish good relations with students and faculty,. alumni and the community,\ Thomas N. Bonner, president of Union College, said at the time of Mr. Sakata's appointment. As a result of its withdraYlal ITALIAN NIGHT THURSDAY All You Can Eat - $2.99 . . 5-7:30 Fri.-Sat. Night Steak & Brew Pitcher of Beer or Carafe of Wine Included With Price of Your Dinner Star Mark Edg(!rton returns again thisjallfor afu!l schedule pfactiQ,n~packed rugby. • • • And Another by BRUCE PULLIAM A muddy cleat appears from beneath a growing pile of flesh. Two slimy hands grasp it and tug ferociously its owner, now a statue of mud, slowly slides irtto sight. A watermelon-shaped ball spurts out of the pile, daring these 2 muddled men, as well as 28 other drenched souls to chase it about the field. This ball is held, juggled, thrown, dropped, and kicked for 80 gruelling minutes ( 40 minute halves). Strangely enough there is some method to this madness. There is a tradition in its queerness. It ·is love and pride that supplies its rugged nature. From the beginning whistle until ·-the games final tackle, above and beyond the punishing tackles and relentless efforts, there is an air of courtesy and respect usually unfound in competitive athletics. Where else does only one man address the referree and to the tune of ••excuse me, sir?\ Where else does a team cheer and clap their from NESCAC, Union sports teams · are now free to schedule contests against whatever colleges they wish. Some colleges that are still members of the conference, most notably Williams, have already dropped Union from their schedule. But Union will not discontinue play with any NESCAC school, according to Mr. Sakala -especially witli such colleges as Hamilto.n and Middlebury with which Union has traditional and longstanding rivalries. 0 Ur.!ION COLLE.GE PV8 · I\E5rAURANT u ~ T1!) c 5CHENECTA~'I',N.Y. I:UOB 1-i() L L 0\V Phone: (51Sl 37()-6050 37CJ-60S'I opposition off the playing field with handshakes and thanks for coming . to play the game? Where else does the home team, . regardless of scar~;, hold a party for their opposition?. It ta:kes a special game to get people to do this in any sort of weather. Rugby is a special game: · The rbles of this game . are complex, somewhat confusing, and much too difficult to explain in the space allotted here. All I can suggest is that ·you Witness· the game, and the party if you want; you are all quite welcome. \Where can I .get a piece of this action?\ may be your question now. Well, if you ar~ interested in playing, we meet for practice daily at 4:30 p.m., in front of West College .. No experience is necessary. If enjoyment of the spectacle from the sidelines is more your style, the schedule is as follows: The squad travelsto Plattsburg on Oct. I, and to Reme on. Oct. 8, before returning home to face Albany Med. (Oct. 15 at 1:.30 p,m. on Library Field). The· match is followed by an away date at Watertown. Many on the team hope that these games will·prepare the club for the beef of the schedule. On l:{omecoming, Oct. 29, Colgate visits Library Field at 1:30 p.m. On Nov. 5, Army hosts the Union ruggers in what figures to be a fierce rematch. Union swept the W~st Pointers last year. The club thep closes the season with the \seven's tourney.\ This tournament draws the best of the area teams Last year a surprising Dutchman squad went to the finals, It was with · great spectator support that Union ended with 10 wins to only 2 losses last spring. With the double shutout oyer Hartwick this past Week (9 to 0 for the \A side\ to 3 to 0 for the \B's\). A hustling Union Rugby Club is looking towards an even better fall. And a number of· new fields of ~~tablished for the first time, competition will be opened on ·making hockey the 5th sport here which Union teams can pla~. to maintain both varsity and JV \About a half-dozen schools- teams. have already uilked t9 us about \Institution of a JV hockey scheduling football games,\ Mr. program has heen discussed fo.r Sakala 11aid, \I'm very· interested several years/' Mr~ Sakala said. in facing these colleges, such as \It should provide an opportunity St. Lawrence and Gettysburg.\ for everyone who wants to play The athletic department this intercollegiate hockey.\ year boasts 8 new members, Prior to 1977-78, hockey was among them Martha. Morrison, ·played on a club level at Union. who is coach of the women's field But on a very \informal\ basis, hockey team now and will coach according to Mr. Sakala. women's lacrosse in the spring. i!ii The JV hockey schedule i She joins Lynn Horta as mcludes only I2 games, as Union's second ftrll-time women's op-posed to 24 games and 2 athletic coach. The decision to scrimmages on the varsity's slate. add a second full-time (emale Before coming to Union, Mr. coach was made on the Sakala had been associated \off recommendation of a task force and on\ with Columbia report to the department last University, firsf as a student and spring. varsity athlete,. and later as head A . third, part-time coach, freshman football and varsily Margaret Denio, is coaching the baseball 'coach. women's tennis team this fall. Her Prior to this year, he also -appointment was made only served as assistant athletic recently because of a num:berof director at the Browning School difficulties this summer in in New York City and as assistant locating an acceptable coach. headmaster at the Englewood The women's athletic program ,(N.J.) School at Union is now completely under ''I've spent most of the time the jurisdiction of Mr. Sakala, since I came here getting to know who stresses that all athletes ~ the staff. we've . got . a) lot ~of both male and female - will enthusiastic people, both veterans receive equal treatment and ' and newcomers. And 1 think benefits, :everyone's getting along well, and .. We want to encourage getting their job done. maximum participation. l think \I like the Union community that's very important at a college and the challenge of running an .like Union,\ he said. athletic program. I'm glad I made To further ,enc.ourage the choice to come to Union, and widespread participation in I'm looking forward this year to ·int~tc$J1t~giat~ athletics at• :~~igq~:' !J~y~I?~in): ·~~ ·,~bl~t~c., )>ro~ra~.' a .JV hockey program has been that wtll benefit the! co~mumty. •. B Nati< State b Soccer' downec SQ>ggy aftemo The noon (1 S()Ught upset o of ~rl~ teArm sc pre pan Oneonl Tbe showe< were 1 Shock bench Rudy· crossb~ play. playen ability after opport rippled shot t comer. readin1 of Dal One on ancho candid dcwn; Uni< import import L by G. The official the U many: this f: import lbrta. Afte the we Barta poQsitio WINN ihe1 which team's return A

CONCORDIENSIS, September 28, 1977 Page 11 . ' ' . -- ' . . . . 6port5 ~. ' ' . . . ' ' . . . . - ' . . ·. Booters Nationally ra~ed Onecmta State labelled by many as Union Soccer's toughest aompetitot ever, downed the Dutchmen 5-l on S(,)ggy Daley field Saturday afternoon. The game; scheduled for high noon (or better yet, high tide) was s()ught by Onion to be its first upset of the season. After 2 weeks of early practices, Coach Magee's ,teAtlll seemed extremely loose and prepa~d for the Red Dragons of Oneonta. Tbe first 15 minutes of play showed that :the Union Bootets were not to be taken lishtly. Shock fell over the One<mla bench as junior forward Pete Randy's header hit hard into. the crossbar in the fttSt 2 minutes of play. Even the Union on~field players seemed stunned with their ability to apply pressure. Finally, after several scoring opportunities, J(}bn Kovacs rippled the nets with a well placed shot to the upper right band comer. With the s<:oreboard reading Union J, Oneonta 0, all of Daley field tasted upset. But Oneonta's renowned attack, anchored by All-American candidate Keith Tozer, settled de>wn to its normal style of play. Union, striving to get that all important second goal, and .more importantly preventing Oneonta Fall to Ranked Oneonta from breaking the ice, was quickly demoraliZed by a fluke crossing pass tbat angled in over goalie Doug Crawford's outstretched arms. Minutes later, Tozer. put One.onta into the lead by outheading 2 Union defenders, leaping high, virtually un~ontt;:sted to place the ball into the upper comer. From that point on, Oneonta seemed in control. However, the Uni(m fullbacks, centered by co-captains Mike Smith and Peter Martini, along with freshman John Krum, still kept the ball in the oneonta end with numerous long chips. If Union had gone into the .halftime break trailing 2-1, the ·game would have been very much in reach. After barely missing an opportunity to tie -the gatJ.le 2-2 when Paul Marvin just missed tipping in a cross into the open net, tb.e Union defense allowed forward To~er one step too many, and he drilled a 30 yard into the upper left hand comer. Halftime, 3-l. The second half demonstrated why the Oneonta radio crew broadcasting the game back to Oneon.ta described the Red Dragons as \one of the best teams in the eastern seaboard.\ They put the ,game on ice, scoring goals 4 and 5 in the last 20 minutes of the game. Ball heads goalward after shot by junior Jim Glavin. Union showed its hustling tradition the second half, despite the evidence of the score, especially in the play of hal,fbacks Bob Hogan and Mike Mulpeter who with continued strong tackling and playmaking could contribate to many Union victories this season. The next 3 home games are Wednesday, the 28th vs. Williams; Monday, October 3rd vs. SL Lawrence; and Wednesday, October 5th, vs. Hamilton. The team would appreciate continued college support. UColl Spiketts Begin by GAZ The 1977 Volleyball season will officially arrive on October l, for the UCoU Spikettes. There are many returning and new faces on this fired up team; the most important being ccach Lynne B:arta. After her impressive revision of the women's softball team, coach Barta moved into h~r new p()sition with the same attitude: WINNING. There are several key factors which will contribute to her team's success: the first being, the return of such players as Lynn .. Roomie~· Bateman, Diana \Gaz\ Gazzo1o, captain Amy Jucatz, Cathy \the Hustler\ Reals, Audrey Stein and Diane Ronsin; secondly, the addition of such new faces as Katherine Mehar, Laurie Seidman, Sheila O'Donald, Jill Thompson and (a not so new face) Liz \Bear\ Yager. The combination of both old and new faces is one ·of coach Barta' 5 assets and in realizing these potentials she initiated the first pre-season camp for women varsity athletes in Union's history. Specifically, coach Barta feels that, \This team can g() aU the way, I know it can. Just seeing the amount of heads-up ball playing, dedication, and enthusiasm expressed by these fine athletes gives enough reason to believe that we are going to go all the way.\ Everyone has been chattering about the volleyball team's improvement, and it is true, but don't take my word for it- come out and see for yourself. Our first home match .is on October 13 at 7:00 p.m. against North Adams and Williams College' in the field house. Be there, aloha! Peter Martini, senior back, on a drier day at Daley Field. Athlete of the Week • • Rich Romer Rich Romer, a sophomore running back from Mt. Kisco, New York, is this issue's athlete of the week. Starting as halfback against Bates on Saturday, Romer carried the ball 35 times for a total of 199 muddy yards, for an average gain of 5. 7 yards every time he touched the ball. Romer also returned punts and kickoffs against Bates in the rain, and was • instrumental as a pass blocker for signal caller Andy Terranova. The total of 199 yards is only the second best effort by the Fox Lane High School graduate at Union. Last fall the sturdy sophomore rolled for 214 yards against RPI, approaching the 38- year old Union record of 236 yards. As in that case, when pressed about his performance in the slop of the Bates game, Romer could only talk about his teammates' support: \Doug (Napodano) was just fabulous. He had so many great blocks. Andy ·also gave me the ball a lot. I just followed my linemen (Roger Payne, John Speer, Bill Egan, Gordon Single, and Ed Kulik) who cleaned out a lot of running room.\ Rich, a brother at the Chi Psi lodge, is optimistic about the remainder of the season: \It was tough to tie the Bates game, but I think that we .showed a lot as a team to come from being behind 14-0. We're not going to give up.\ Womens Fall Tennis The women's tennis team kicked off another season, Tuesday, St\j)t. 17 against Albany State. Alb~ny capitalized on the team's late start this season defeatin~ Union 6-2. The two victors for Union were Renee I • Venutt), . who won easily, and Rhonpa Kaplan, who pulled out a The team is now being coached Oct. 3 N. Adams by an alumnus and ex-team State H 3:30 member Sam :Goldin- Denio. 1 Oct. 4 Colgate A 3:30 Oct. 11 Vassar A 4:00 Another debilitating factor ltas been the weather. The team has had only 2 meetings; one of an organizational nature and the Oct. 12 Middlebury H 3: 30 Oct. 15 Hartwick H 2:00 Oct. 18 Ulster CCC H 3:30 Oct. 20 Williams A 3:30 Oct. 26 Oneonta H 3:30 3 se~er winning 7-5 in the third. second to determine team ·The, team's late start this season· positions. A ladder will be used in Oct. 31 Russell Sage A 3:30 The team is looking forward to better matches ahead. 1 caq: be attributed to several fa<;tors, the most significant being , t~e resignation of the former and the difficulties that the future to determine who will fill the positions for the next 9 meets scheduled for this season. They wish to thank those who attended the Albany match and invit~ .others -to .attend any of thl! \eJ1sw::rt. ; i 1 n ,, }'?:iU.$. }~ f~~ ~~?~. ,,~~e,I :·: ·' ~~\~:~.~:s .. ~c~~~ .. ~.l~._.i~ -~~ ·'~ ?-~!..o_, ~s..: '· h~~e, sa~~s. i_n. !~e. future. ·~· '\'I • ~- ( \1.\.:: ~ ~ ~' ,,,.., ~ \\\ ~ '\ .... ' \ I' '< ~ '.:~:.:i>,(

·. Pt:~ge 12 CONCORDIENS/S, September 2~, 1977 6port6 Terranova, Romer Help Union to Tie by KEN PLUMB Down 14-0 in the first quarter, the Union College Dutchmen unleashed a punishing ground game, aided by some timely passing, to achieve a 20-20 tie with Maine rival Bates College. Visions of Bates' 42-19 rout of a year ago must have passed through the minds of the 1,250 rain drenched spectators as Bates took the opening. kickoff and dro' e 62 yards for the opening score, the touchdown coming on an 18 yard pass from quarter- back Hugo Colosante to fullback Gary Pugatch. Then following a brief Union possession, Bates scored again with Colosante this time hitting Tom Szot with a three yard touchdown strike to cap a 63 yard scoring drive. A fired up Union offense, however, got the Dutchmen back into the game as quarterback Andy Terranova began the scoring drive with consecutive sneaks Df 12 and nine yards. From this point on, it was simply a matter of a veteran Union offensive line, led by seniors Ed Kulik, Roger Payne and John Speer (co-captain) along with sophomores Gordon Single and Bill Egan, dominating the line of scrimmage. They continually ·opened holes for sophomore running back Rich Romer who used some great individual effort as well as some tremendous lead blocking by fullback Doug Napodano to move Union downfield. Terranova capped the run ·dominated ·64 yard drive by plunging over the goal line on 11 fourth and one sneak. Union threatened once again in the first half driving from their own eight yard line to Bates' six only to have a bad pitch send the Dutchmen back to the lJ. Following an incomplete pass, Jim MacDonald attempted a 29 yard field goal. The snap was high, however, and he was unable to get off the kick. Trailing 14-7 the Dutchmen wasted little time as they tied up the score by marching 90 yards in 13 plays on their second possession of the third quarter. A 12 yard pass to tight end Mike Gilfeather and a 19· yard sweep by Rich Romer were the big plays until Terranova, once again using good interior line blocking, l>ulled his way 16 yards into the end zone for the tying tally as MacDonald added. . the extra point. A psyched up Dutchmen defense, anchored by middle linebackers Ken Beck (co-captain) and Ed Elinski, stopped the Bates' offense cold and upon receiving possession Tei'I'anova once again began marching the Dutchmen's offensive unit downfield. Outside Junior QB Andy Terranova directs Union offense in third quarter against Bates. <>f a crucial fourth down catch by freshman wide receiver Henry Wright, it was all Romer. Rich c:a~rried the ball 8 of the 14 plays on the 59 yard scoring drive i11cluding the touchdown play, a 2 yard plunge behind big Doug Napodano. The extra point attempt failed, giving Union a 20- 14 lead. Colosante, 16-28 and 233 yards tbrou.gh the air, never gave up, ·hcwever, as he passed his team from the Bates· 30 all the way to the Union 28. At this point the .Dutchmen defense stiffened and appeared to have Bates in a hole. P:.n illegal motion penalty followed by a lO yard sack of Colosante, giving Bates a third md 20 from the Union 38. A long third down pass was nicely b-roken up by sophomore defensive back Kevin Kormondy f>.ut wllen Colosante launched his d.esperation fourth down pass, IJates wide receiver Steve Olson tnanaged to outmaneuver two Union defenders in the end zone for the tying six· points. Defensive end Rob Stoltz saved the tie for Union as he blo~;ked the extra point attempt with 4:50 remaining in the game. The ensuing kickoff gave Union a first and i:en from their own 19. Terranova, using the ground game, moved the team to the Union 33 where he faced. a third and four. Forced to scramble he was only able to pick up three of the needed four yards, leaving the Dutchmen with a fourth and one on their own 36 with 1:35 left in the game. Coach Tom Cahill, in a controversial decision, elected to punt the ball away and Bates took over on its own 27. Colosante continued his. stellar perfoi1llance maneuvering his teammates all the way to the Union 19. The Dutchmen defense was able to tightc:m up once again, . and aided by a costly delay of game penalty, the Garnet forced Bates to try a 42 yard. field goal with 15 seconds remaining. The kick fell well short and the Dutchmen took o:ver on their own 20. T erra:nova 6-1'0 l 01 yards passing, in addition to 80 yards rushing scrambled for three yards and Romer swept for 9 more, giving Rich an incredible total of 199 yards rushing on the day. With just thr~ seconds remaining Terranova hit Henry Wright (who looks to be this year's outstanding freshman) with a 20 yard strike. Henry broke one tackle and it looked as if he might go all the way until a Bates defender knocked him out of bounds on the Bates 18 yard line, ending all hope of a miracle finish as time ran out. All in all, it was a tremendous effort on tbe part of the Dutchmen offense as they ·pounded out 411 yards of total offense in what must have been one of the most exciting games e.ver played on Alexander Field to date. Both teams played tough aggressive football but it was just one mistake too many which kept Union from winning their season opener. Union s'Bick Hoping for X-C Improvement by ROCKY DOLAN the fall season as a preparation for their indoor efforts, their respective fall performances h~tve been impressive. Rich Rufiler, en route to 35 af his 199 yards. Eight returning lettermen form the nucleus of what Coach Ted !lick terms a ''hopeful\ Union Colle.ge Cross-Country Team. \Vith a group of fourteen hard- ll!ork.ing harriers that includes two track All-Americas, Mathem- atics Professor Bick reports that Ite is looking forward optimis- tically to an improvement on last year's l-7 mark. \They've been doing a good deal of running,\ said. Bick, who practices every singl~ day with his charges and put the group through 18-mile days for the wekk-long training period. \and both take the cross-country sea- son very seriously.\ Bick expects that Scheuer will qualify for· a trip to the Division HI nationals this fail, and, with Moffatt, will form a potent 1-2 scoring punch il\' dual meets. a year-long leave of absence due to knee problems, and junior Keith Silva are a.lsQ returning this fall and will bt! counted on to close up the Dutchmen scoring. New faces include impressive freshmen Jack Connor and Randy Clark, sophomore Tom Kelly who may sit out at Oneonta due to a sore leg, and juniors Shannon Harper and Kathy Lett, who it is hoped will fotl11 the beginnings of a full woman's squad. ~ <4. I .,~~ D k •· te ,~~ oo ey Union's main problems for the past few seasons on th~ trails has ~een a severe lack of depth and tw.• games on Thursday with both u.ntlmely lllJUries to key .c women's fir·· hockey team for ~1e first time r;tr. a pre-season ca ·. '· Sixteen .. ,,ung ladies P• . :ipated in pre-season tr. · :ng designed ~· nrk on both en. ranee and !-,, The Camp alL .l in the refli . .! and adding or f new skills ·. each of the lac ·s. 1 '1 September '4, the field he• ey team tc· · part in a hcl' ey tournam. '·' at Scotia- Gf. ville High Sch\·'l. The teams pa· •cipating in '. · tournament wtc Skidmore 1. . !ege, Vassar, Ht. dmer, R.PJ Russell Sage, anc Union. l r :,m defeated Ru,sell Sage and played exciting and close games with both Vassar and Skidmore. Since classes began another 11 women have come out for the team. The season begins this Thursday, September 29. visiting SkidmDre College. There will be varslty and junior varsity j)ersonnel. This year. th~ squad c\:r Hopefully we can a.lso will be without the services i' :tf' n the season with a ·()f rhe school course rec,:rd-hold- cr · ' ... pet1t1ve game This year's er, Stan Wiskoski, who g1 <tduated t•·, ;] will be leQ by captain Judy • . 1 . 1 d . 11 . f 1 this past June. t J· •. ,co an Wh con~tst o severa 3 . k · rt b d \A · f 1-.:' remams unpe . ur .e . . s r :P.Jrmng. players ·rom last year .. , . . h h f th · d b ll t f h t1sUa1, we ave per aps tv.o o e G:•le Y an exce en res man very best runners in •Jur class c~<!\~' The outlook for a successful · h t t ·· t d ng t 11ere on our earn. no e '-~rl50n looks good. , · Bick, 'and if inJurie.~ don't ~IH OCK U will be holding its f:;st organizational meeting. of tilt> year THURSDAY, SE:PT. \ 29, 8:00 p.m. in the GYM to dis~uss fundraising for · banquets and awards.· REMEMBER, if you WilDt to be reeognized with an award for your participation in the union Sports Program, YOU MUST ATTEND. .weaken us at the bottom we g·hou IJ really surprise some !>eople.\ At the top of the order, junior Kevin Scheuer and senior Bob Moffatt are the cause of Bick's ·indefatigable optimism. Scheuer in the half, and Moffatt in the quarter mile, were both track All- Americas this past spring, and duri~g the preseason period have been the teatn's best and most consistent runners. Although both nationally-rafiked speedsters see Chasing Moffatt for the second spot have been returnees Pete Pettit, captain Tom LawsGn, and Pete Vielkind. Pettit is a 'young veteran.' As a freshman and sophomore he was a consistent second and third place t1nisher with Scheuer. This fall he has beetl running well, but faces the same problem that the senior Lawson has fought for the past three seasons - leg injuties. Indeed, ailments of various sorts have both of these scorers on the 'doubtful' list fDr Wednesday's opener at Oneonta. This will transfer much of the ~coring bord~n to sophomore Pete Vielkind, a track standout who !ieored consistent~y last fall, and who. according to Bick, \has improved tremendously.\ Senior John Fartell, back after A new face that may ease the crunch of injuries to Bick's harriers may be transfer Brian Liss, who reportedly has covered a marathon in 2:40, and a ten- mile run in 55 minutes this summer. His showings in time trials as yet have been below that potential, but Bick hopes that Liss will develop into one of his more potent point-men as the season progresses. The Dutchmen open up at Oneonta against Siena and Oneonta on Wednesday, and return to Schenectady next Wednesday to face Hamilton Col- lege in their only home appeatance of the fall season. * .. * * •· There will be a meeting for all interested candidates · of the indoor and outdoor track team this Thursday evening at 8 o~clock in the ·Alumni Gym. by BEN < STONE, NAGORSJ Union Cc Willard En President of past SaturdE prestigious 1 a:rts college Brunswick, . NESCAC, l Enteman candidates. seventeen beforCdecid Dr. Enter eleventh p oldest ins learning wi Howell JJ historian w years in off to full time Provost I start servi1 sometime t become a college anc community takes over. Provost E winter vac: his transiti exclusive Concordier gave som decisic.m to to Bowdo was ask1 applicatioiJ the positi' \Bowdoin institution ment to q Provost two pr appointme Benningto these tw apparent J the reluct: Boards. of fuller adn Dr. En1 five-year 1 meeting College's was the Preside1 Committt Bowdoi: Overseers and two His res servJng ~ Board of also pla1 Bowdo administ1 teaGhers

