d a a n d 4 v ... JJ Volume 106J No. 12 February 2, 1977 JJ Bonner Charts Future . . . Aaron Copland: Li-ving legend to speak at Union. President Thomas Bonner has circulated his recent report to the Trustees entitled \The State of Union College: The Promise and the Paradox\ to members of the college community in ail effort to .. encourage discussion of the ideas and vision of Union College put forth\ in the document. Contained within the reportarc Bonner's plans and aspirations for the Union College of the future. The President begins his report by detailing Union's strengths and promise. Bonner writes that \to the eye of the practiced observer the health of Onion College is remarkably sound and unthreatened.\ He cites the good financial condition that the college is in, the quantity and Union Welcomes Copland Aaron Copland, the famous composer, will appear at Memorial Chapel on friday, Fe-bruary I J th, at 8:00 pm, as part of the American Composer's Forum. Born in Brooklyn, in 1900, he was seized with. a desire for piano lessons atim early age, and after some resistance from -his parents, was able 'to ta~e pjano ~s well as harmony lessons from. . Ru6in Goldmluk (1872:...1936) who had studied with Dvorak when the latter visited· New York. Acc01;-ding to Copland, he did not differentiate between classical and modern music, but he. recalls. that \'It was Goldmark .... who first actively dis9ouraged this commerce· with the \moderns.\ That was enough to whet any young man~s appetite.\' ~>tyle,\ was first evident in a \fantasia\ on MexiCan tunes. The excellent \El Salon Mexico\ (1.936) is one of the absolutely great pieces of at>solutely inspiring -composition by this genius. This style inspired a wave of truly great masterpieces, such as \Billy th~ Kid\ (1938), and iqcidental music to two H~\J~oo~ ~ J.ea!!J_re!ii~. :'9f, _Mice and'Men\(1939) and \Our Town'~ (1940). . The functional music continued throughout the '40's: \A Lincoln Portrait\ (1942); \Appalachian Spring\ (1944), and the film, of the book by John Steinbeck, ''The Red Pony\ (1948). At the .end of the 'SO's, Copland used. for the first time Schoenberg's method of composing with twelve tones- which ·has come to be recognizably Copland. Copland also orchestrated during this period, while writing vocal music: \Twelve Poems of Emily Dickinson\ ( 1950), and ''Old American Songs\ ( 1950, and 1952). For many years, he was the hea4 qf the compqsition fac.ulty at the Berkshire Music Center, and rec~mly has given ·lectures to vari.ous colleges around the coutry. Copland's brilliance has contriubted greatly to the status of the American composer, and no longer need. composers be jlldged · against European standards: for Aaron Copland has brought American composition into an age of excellence itself. qpality of applicants, and the apparent high morale on campus to support his claims of Union's strength. Bonner then goes oil to define areas in which Union has \undeveloped potentials for growth not available to most of its competitors.\ These include the association with Union University, the location of the college in a medium-size metropolitan area, continuing education for adults, the Institute of Administration and Management (lAM), and national visibility and public support for athletics. These opportunities, according to the President, provide Union the chance to initiate and expand in times when most other private colleges in this sector of the country are either closing or entering periods of retrenchment. Bonner continues by discussing what he perceives to be the paradox on the Union campus namely that in this time when college leaders should be concerned about Union•s future survival, there seems to be an absence of such cQ.n.cem and when _people do accept the necessity of institutioq.al planning and strate&y, the stt;ategy itself is not well understood. The President feels that Union is \a comprehensive college · in a university setting.\ This is the attribute that differentiates Union from all the small eastern liberal arts colleges. Bonner claims that this view of the college can be found deep in the roots of our history and affords Union many of its \unique strengths.\ Union is not like Williams, the report states, or any other college in terms of history, diversity or opportunity. If Union develops associations with the University, with the city of Schenectady, expands the lAM, and creates a year-round operation the similarities between the college and the other small liberal arts colleges will be minimized. Bonner feels, however that not every one on campus agrees with these views. These people don't see the inherent value in the programs discussed above that Bonner does. In fact, some people feel that the development of these programs will have a deleterious effect -on the campus. The President mentioned that his deepest regret was that he was both \too much and too little involved\ in the development of future athletic plans for the college. He then reiterated his displeasure with the conclusions of the Task Force concerning the NESCAC ~ Division I issue but stated that he would support the judgment of the college community and urged the Trustees to do likewise. In concluding his report, Bonner returned to the idea of a comprehensive college. Only through the opportunities offered by considering Union in this light will the college be able to survive the bard years to come. In 1921, a new teacher, Nadia · Boulanger, brought excitement to Copland's differing style. His study of composition increased along with the idea that his \personal expression in music ought somehow to be related to my own back-home environment.'' Copland was part of the new generation of American composers who had suceeded in deviating from the older traditions. In 1928-1931, with Roger Sessions, he organized the Copland-Sessions Concerts, which featured American music on every program. In 1937, he joined with others to establish the Arrow Music .Press, a cooperative publishing venture. Term Abroad to Study Medicine by B~ADLEY KESSLER . . He came out with many compositions from 1925 \Dance Symphony,\ to 1934 with \Statements for Orchestra.'' These earlier works represented his earlier ramblings in a jazz and improvisational style. The later works became more . improvisational and some, like \Short Symphony\ (1933) were so difficult to play that performances have -been rare. During this time, the Great Depression, the climate of artistic endeavors was changing as sources of patronage were dry-ipg up. Copland states: \In aU the arts the Depression has aroused a wave of sympathy for and identification with the plight of the common man. Suddenly. by the end of 1939, functional music was in demand as never before ... Motion picture. ballet companies. film and theater. etc.\ I hi~ new manner. which Copland calls his \\'ernacular · A.t this time 11 seems imminent students regardless of their major that some form of socialized field of study. The cost of the trip medicine will take ·shape in this will be $2400. This price includes country in the near future. In tuition, room, board and all Congress today bills are pending transportation. All normal grants, that would call for some form of fellowship will apply except work- National Health lnsurance study grants. Professor Baker (Kennedy-Connan Bill). It seems urges that if one does not have the money, apply anyway. apprQprhue that the Union Additional funding from grants College Study Abroad Program may be made available in the near will be offering, this summer, a future. comparative study of the institution of Medicine in Poland, The program has received its England, and Sweden. approval and support from Dean Brownlee, Dean Smith, and The course coordinator will be Provost Enteman who have also Robert. Baker; Ph.D., Assistant helped set it up. Professor of Philosophy at Union There will be a lecture by a College. According to Professor historian on the History of Baker; this study would be the first of its kind on an Medicine in each country, as well undergraduate level anywhere in as lectures by a sociologist on the the c<:>l,mtry. No other college impact of the socialization of offers a program where the medicine on the medical practice comparison can be made among in that country . four countries (including the Within each country will be a tour of medical and social United States). The faculty includes Dr. David institutions, a family practice, a large metropolitan health care Armstrong, who has to ~is credit facility (similar to a Mayo clinic), membership in the Council -of the a large urban psychiatric hospital, ·Association for the Study of an addiction treatment clinic, a Medical Education, and Associate Medic~tl Editor of Ethics In facility for treating the terminally Science and Medicine. William ill and museums on the history of Bynum, MD, Ph.D, head ofsub'- medicine. In this way comparisons can be made of the department of History of different institutions in the Medicine of University of London, and who will be Mellon lecturer in History of Medicine in the spring term, and Victor Kayfetz, BA, medical correspondent for Sweden. 'This program is offered to all undergraduate and graduate various countries. The trip will begin in Schenectady for the first week. I here will be a week lor preliminary work on American health care systems, used as a standard of comparison. Four weeks will follow in London. A week will be set aside for excursions the student might want to take. Two weeks will be spent in Stockholm, again 'followed by an option week. The final two weeks will - be in Warsaw, Auschwitz (optional), Cracow, the ancient capital of Poland, and Vienna. The trip will wind up in Vienna. Students will be issued· open- ended tickets, which allows the holder one full year from departure to use his return ticket. It is then possible for extended travel if the person desires at the end of the trip. The .program will be equal to 3 course credits - 2 comprehensive educations and an independent study. The independent study will be developed under the direction of a member of the Union College faculty. It can range from a simple diary of events to a pictorial essay on medical treatment. Applications received before February 12 will be notified of their status as of Feb. 15. Applications are open to all students as of this time. Professor Baker considers this program an intensive learning experience yet one he promises to be most exciting. Any further questions can be referred to Sandy Adams of the Study Abroad Office upstairs in the Humanities in the Language Department. Ptof. Robert Baker. architect of Union's term abroad in socialized medicine.

·' Pagel CONCORDIENSJS, Feb. 2, 1977 Union Aids CP Telethon \lriion. ahlllg with 7 other an:a ~ollcgt:~. has agn:cd to take a hall- hllUI' ~~~lt in the 13-hour Capit<l'l Di~trict Ccn:bral Palsv I' clcthon. 'I h1s commitment entaib tHO\ iding cn.ter.tainers. people to man phones. an<,! an M. C. d.uri ng the hall-hour ol ;tir time. as well as a campu~-\\ ide d-rive lor t:ontrihuti(lm. I he tdct.lltlll w rll be held at the Albany Armory lrom II ,p.m .. 1-cb. 12 to 6 p.m .. hb. 13. atld \\ill be broadt:asted by Channel I 0. Union's time sltH is 3:30•4:00 a.m. (yt:s. A.M.). Sunday, hb. 13. Our 15 phoncrs, along with N.ipsy Russell aml other stars. will be entertained Sunday morning by Union's own I-ran Messina, folk guitarist, Adam Fry, comic Joe Zolner: Union's MC at the CP Telethon. Colteg.e Senate to Meet( Finally) After a long period of inactivity, the Union College All- College Senate will meet next Thursday, February 10; at 4:30 PM in the Old Chapel. The Senate has not met since Nov. 4 of last term due to a lack of business. Athletic Report Debated The most controversial issue to be discussed undoubtably will be the Report of the Task Force on Athletics. This report, which took more than eight months to -complete, will be discussed ''for the purpose of deciding what appropriate procedures should be adopted to insure a fair and thoro1,1gh consideration of various points of vi~w on the issues.\ In an unusu'al move a ·special informal meeting also will be held Tuesday, Feb:' 8 at 4:30 in the· ·Old Chapel specifically to discuss the Report of the Athletic Task Force. This meeting was designated at the request of \a number of people\ whose identities remain a mystery. In addition, although Pres. Bonner will be unable to attend Thursday's meeting, he will probably be at the meeting on academic dishonesty; racis'm; Tuesday. sexism; antisemitism; intentional Concordy has not been able to destruction or theft of individual ascertain what the divisional or college property; theft or reaction has been to the Report; destruction of library resources however, all indications point to and facilities; and malicious the fact that there is a substantial endangerment of life or physical difference of opinion among the welfare. faculty. During the course of the Term Abroad Approvals discussions on Tuesday and The third issue with which the Thursday, it is hoped that a full Senate will deal has to do with airing of the issues will be achieved and a resolution to this the responsibility for appFoving important question arrived at. study by Union students - at colleges and universities abroad. Unacceptable Behavior This is handled presently by the Defmed fa.culty members o.f the In other business, the Senate · Committee on the Standing of will act on a proposal from the Students. These members; Committee on Student Life however, are not chosen for the outlining what forms of ,behavior committee witli regard to their should be considered expertise,. in. this an~~;\·:. The. unacceptable at Union. If the committee felt thit the motion is passed, it will be responsibility · wgu\d be bettet expected that \all members of the h::mdled by an administrator who Union community will participate in some way deals with the in the implementation of the problem, or by a new Committee highest standards of personal on Study Abroad. accountability and respect for individual rights and dignity.\ Among the specific behaviors which were enumerated as particularly offensive were: Open Campus Party - to be held this Friday, February 4th. Sponsored by South- Richmond-North. 9:00 p.m.-2:00 a.m. at the · Old Chapel. Featuring a Disc . Jockey from Fatso Fogarty's with lots of munchies, beer . and liquor. 25 ¢ admission. and tire-cater.. and Melinda Mc!>ick, vocalist, an:ompanied hy Rich Seman. Joe /oiAcr will be there to M.C. ;\~ Unio11'~ I.V. time wincidcs with th..: t:nd of the Winter Carnival Ball, thePe is a possibility of a hus being provided to take people from the dance to the telethon to lend their support. The Positive Act.ion Group, ll'·C, and res·ident advisors are headin.g up the campus fundraising efforts for cerebral ,palsy. Saturday, Peb. 5, at the Union 1 Buffalo hockey game, volunteers will be on hand to accept donations from students and the community. Saga has agreed to· donate the cost of a meal for all those normally dining at West who agree to fast for dinner on 1-riday, Feb. 11. Sign- ups for the fast will be Curing dinner on Fri., Feb. 4 and Mon., Feb. · 7. I FC is collecting donations from its members and contributions can be made at aAy time to any resident advisor. ., he money collected from the college community will be presented at the telethon during Union's half- hour on the air. Union's efforts will be made worthwhile only with the suppurt of its students and faculty. Any donations of time. interest or money will contribute to the success of the college's efforts as a whole. $ Drive Starts Seventh Annual Bu~iness any community in America which Campaign on behalf of Union enjoys so great and widespread a College will .pursue a goal of response.\ $110,000, Campaign <::hairman Dr. Bonner said the goal of the Clinton A. Braidwood announced college in the future will be to at the kick-off dinner last move its basis of support and Tuesday night (Jan. 25}. services increasingly toward the The goal is $10,000 above last community, mentioning such year's $100~000 goal, which the areas as continuing education, campaign exceeded by several athletics, the use of college hundred dollars. Bniidwood said facilities, programs offered by the he hoped this year's campaign college's Institute of would \considerably exceed\ the · Administration and Management, goal. In the future, he said he and joint programs offe.red by the hoped future campaigns could college and the four Albany bring in as much as $200,000. institutions which with the college Braidwood, president of make up Union University. Schenectady Chemicals, noted The Business Campaign will be that the :involyement between fully un,dt;rway by mid-February Utiion :·.College and-- ··the~ and.will~ end in ;Ap.rit. '·· ,,,:.· corturiunity' has ~grown irl' recent-. ' · ·'- : · ' · · years. \For 182 years the college has been an imp.ortant part of the community. We're here tonight because we care about Union . College and we want to help it with its programs.\ he told the. 100 local businessmen who attended the dinner at the Holiday Inn. Union College President Thomas N. Bonner, ·speaking on the same theme, noted the \remarkable range of people\ who take part in the campaign and said he knew of \no college in PEACE CORPS turns big words like brotherhooo, service, and care into small miracles- a new school, a fresh water well, a vaccination against diptheria, an adult who can read and write, a child who has enough to eat. Interested in becoming one of over 10,000 Volunteers? A. former volunteer will be on campus Wed., Feb. 9 to answer your questions. Individual appointments are being taken now in the Placement Office, 17 South Lane. SIMS Launches The 1977 Regional Career Fair will be held at the Mohawk Mall on Wednesday. Thursday, and Friday, February 2, 3, and 4. All are invited to everything you want to know about job requirements and what various careers have to offer. The following career fields will be Rolling Records 527 UNION ST. SCHENECTADY Ph. 374-3430 Open Mon.-Sat. 9-9 Sunday 11-6 Check out our great . selectior) of $1.99 and $2.99 specials r:-~------ -------------~ lOne 6.98 List Album for onlyl I 3.88 I I I WITH COUPON Limit One 3.88 special per person Coupon expires Sunday, Feb. 6th I Ideal Society Drive Tile American Foundation of the Science of Creative Intelligence, which is a non-profit service organization which offers the Transcendental Meditation program t·o business, is sponsoring a Campaign for an Ideal Society for the city of Schenectady. The campaign will be recognizing ten outstanding citizens for their personal success _which inspires others to strive for greater achievement and fulfilment. Personal success results from developing more of one's potentials and operating in harmony with the laws of nature. Successful people are the basis of an ideal society. This is the goal of the TM program~to help develop one's full potential by increasing mental alertness, relieving stress allowing for greater physical health and energy and through the relief of stress expansion of awareness leading to improved social behavior. In conjunction with this Ideal Society campaign in the City of Schenectady the SIMS Club (the organi1.ation offering --the TM program to students) is sponsoring for the month of February, an \Ideal Student campaign: To develop the full potential of the individual.\ This campaign will include a number of seminars oil the TM technique as a means of developing the qualities of an ideal student, at the separate dorms and fraternities on campus. This campaign will conclude with a symposium on February 23 where a number o1' experts in the fields of art, science. psychology and athletics will speak about their views o~ ''Developing one's Full Potential.\ If your dormitory or fraternity would be interested in having a teacher of the TM program give a presentation on: ''The TM technique: Unfoldment of Inner Potential for Outer Success,\ contact Robert Omansky at the Schenectady TM Center; 377- 3133, or Mike Losow, president of the SIMS Club, Box Number t 960, or phone 370-6513. Please make arrangements immediately as we would like these seminars to precede the February 23 Symposium. represented: Professional and Technical Occupations. Education. Food and Food Service, Military Services. Public Service, Communication. Transportation, Manufacturing. Officet Retail, Sales. Conservation a n d A g r i c u It u r e. a nd Recreation 1 Entertainment I The Arts. This schedule will be supplemented with additional .participating orgauitations as reservations continue to be received. More information can be obtained by calling (518)346- 8470. The current schedule is posted in the Placement Office. Representatives of the national sorority Sigma Delta Tau will be here on Sunday, February · 6, 1977. They will present their si.Jrority to all interested women with the intent of starting a Union Chapter.- For the time and location of the meeting contact Judcc Rosenberg or U1 Yager at , J46-9~4H or Box 93~. -- F by NEI The S last Tht 27, in S three irn life: tJ Educatio advising attracted and one Faculty The di around t of the C System.~ previous but WO expresse< writing c believed encourag writing uppercla! Dean I Educatio which bt Comp-E< conc.urre' for refo change tl changed.' current although of the .a start. Rt student Eds, she take top A ml however; extremely From as is very diJ addition, restraints additional in the. Pro~raml The Jl awaiting those of the Not.t•: of you ' them, thi status of The Nott not mucl the near Last SI the Not1 inform Trustees a the boil< initiate ! repairing building.

' Forum Convenes by NElL SUSSMAN The Student Forum convened last Thursday evening, January 27, in Strauss Lounge to discuss three important issues of student life: the calendar, General Education Programs, and the advising system. The meeting attracted about fifteen students and one administrator, Dean of Faculty Paula Brownlee. b~and of Comp-Ed). In es~ence, the staff work necessary to integrate a'lternate solutions to the current situation will take a great deal of time and effort, but Dean B·rownlee told the group, \Whatever we do, we mUst do well.\ Pr.ior to closing the discl)ssion, the Student Forum decided to send its recommendations for reform to the Educational Policv Committee in 1-2 weeks. The discussion quickly centered around the need for an overhaul of the Comprehensive Education System. Student sentiment echoed previous criticism of the system, 'but worth noting was the expressed desire for a required writing class for freshmen. It was believed that this would perhaps encourage students to take more writing courses during their uppetclass years. Student Forutrn ponders'Comp-Eds·and alternatives. Educational Fund Proposed Dean Brown·lee, member of the Educational Policy Committee which began a formal .study of Comp.:Eds in July, strongly concurred with student sentiments for reform, stating, \We will change the system. It has to be changed.\ She felt that the current system has its merits, although it lacked the full backing of the ,administration · from the start. Recognizing the growing student unrest towards Comp- Ed!i, she said that change \has to take top priority.\ A major problem exists, however; curriculum changes are extremely difficul~ to · engineer. From a scheduling standpoint, it is very difficult to $hift faculty. In addition, there are budgetary restraints that limit the hiring of additional faculty to teach course~t in the. Generaf Education Pro~rams (the ~a~e for the new The Planning and Priorities Committee,. in an effort to spur. continued educational innovation on the Union Campus, is in the midst of designing a new program, the Internal Educational Foundation, fiEF). The .proposal, presently in its fourth draft form, has grown out of the pressing concern for \programmatic innovati_on at the College.,. lt is the hope at the Committee that through this program Union can forge ahead and emerg(! in the 1980's in a p.reeminent position as one of the leaders in· higher education amongst small private colleges. The IEF would finance projects for •;educational innovation and scholarly pur~uit\. The immedi~te goals of the program are to stimulate the intellectual curiosity of the student b9dy and provide the student~ with opportunites to apply their skills, to ·supply students with the opportunity to work on educational innovation, . . and to permit the college to further programs of educatio'nal development. It is hoped that the foundation will attract more intellectual students to the college, provide certain outstanding students with the chance to engage in scholarly investigation a nd e nab I e individual students, groups of students, and combined groups of students and faculty to engage in learned purs1,1its. Furthermore, the program will provide release time for faculty members and emphasize Union's commitment to educational change. A Foundation Board, designed to implement Planning and Priorities' Programs, would ·help develop projects for which students and faculty may submit proposals for implementation, evaluate such proposals, allocate appropriate financial support, evaluate proposals resulting from campus initiative and fund those it deems worthy. NOtt· Renewat··.Still Wa.iting The Nott Memorial is still awaiting its mira~:~c? savior. For those of you who have forgotten the NO\t's pro~lems, ·?r for those of you who 'never I<;new about them, this article. will . bring the status of the buildjng up-to-date. The Nott continues .to decay and not much action seems likely in the near future. Last spring the ad hoc \Save the Nott\ committee tried to inform the college and the Trustees about the problems with the build:ing and get them to initiate some action to begin repairing and renovating the building. A proposal put forth b- Mr. ·Paul Schafer, an architect specializiug in restoration, to fix · the ·crumbling roof for $25,000 was greeted with enthusiasm. The committee drummed up support· from the campus with publicity a!ld ·a· campus-wi<fe petition. The proposal was brought before the Trustees and they decided to investigate the project. After several delays the proposaJ Will! finally brought before Trustees' subcommittee, chaired by Gerard Newmann (class of '36). Walter Stone, director of maintenance, investigated the proposal with several contractors, but the p'rice Noll Memorial; Will Union iet .its symbol die? had· doubled and the effectiveness of the repairs were, in his opinion, only temporary. The majority of_ the Trustees agreed with Mt. Stone's report. Mr. Stone said that with a few thousand dollars each year, his crew could patch up the leaky roof. He stated that his yearly work would last as long as the proposed repair, and it would be much cheaper. Kevin Schary, a member of the Campus Planning Board, tried to support the roof repair work and the resotration of the entire building in general. He questioned the effectiveness of plastering up falling walls every year and also the structural strength of the stone masonry. Professor Gil Harlow also questioned the yearly patchwork, but mentioned that the proposal would at least be an improvement. Mr. Stone again said the yearly work would be sufficient to keep the building in its present state, and the roof repair might only last 10 years. The Trustees supported Mr: Stone's position and reiterated their concern and support for the Nott Memorial. They spoke of the million dollar-plus tag for the repair and restoration. They insisted that the repair and restoration of the building should be undertaken at one time and that the college would have to twait for a donor who had the resources (and the kindness) to finance the entire project. They also stated that the college had the fine-arts facility and a new gym as other top priorities. The alumni relations and development office in Lamont House are reported to be actively seeking a donor for 'the Nott Memorial. It looks like Union and its beautiful Memorial will just have to wait a little longer. THE FUTURE PROBLEMS AND Numerous problems, both national and indigenous in character, will plague Union in coming years. Enrollment problems will become aggrandized as applicant pools continue to shrink. Tuition promises to increase at .a rate in excess of current inflationary trends. The college will continue to suffer from the absence of any broad reputation and large scale visability. \Within the College Community,\ the. draft adds, \there seems to be a serious lack of intellectual curiosity among students and little scholarly pursuit and dynamic intellectual interactions ·outside the classroom.\ FINANCES Growing . operating costs constantly threaten to absorb all increases in revenue. To fund the proposed system the committee recommends- the establishment of an Internal Educationa:l Foundation designed to enable Union to pursue \imaginative long-range planning\ and provide a sound base for future academic programs. To insure adequate funding the Committee demands that the college make a firm and , substantial commitment to the IEF. The draft recommends that two percent of the projected total tuition revenue per year be reserved for the Foundation. Any funds remaining at the end of the year would be carried over to the succeeding years funds. The educational programs. The final category, possibly labeled \campus initiated proposals,\ would permit students and faculty to \design proposals for the implementation of programs for educational innovation topics.\ Examples of perspective projects in this category include support for student thesis research, independent studies, and summer research employment. CONCLUSION The Committee concludes that the IEF will yield numerous positive results for Union. The Foundation will help attract students and deflate some of the antagonism to the increasing costs of a college education, elucidate Union's role as a progressive educational leader at a tirrie when other schools will be cutting back, and contribute significantly to the College's image in the 1980's as a high-quality liberal arts institution. Through the Foundation the school will be able to maximize i'ts greatest assets (strong c1,.1rriculum, small size, and strong faculty) and gain greater visibility, while promoting im;reased financial support. To avoid the prospective dangers facing private colleges in the near future, the Committee states, Union must have \a clearly articulated plan for the future.\ The establishment oftheiEF, the Committee concludes, .. will enable the College to chart its future with justified optimistic self-confidence.\ proposed 1977-78 allocation II= •. _ 8a I& a= I& would be approximately \~ \~ \~ \~ I'M \~ $150,000. Th~ Committee has attempted !!$. to tie increased tuition with ~ allocations for the Foundation. This will provide students with ~ the feeling that a part of their tuition will he supporting projects The two positions of Editor-in-Chief of Union's award-winning weekly, Concordiensis, are vacant for next term. New Editors will be chosen by election on Thursday, Febrpary 17, at 8:00 P;M. in the Concordy office on third floor Carnegie. Anyone who has done any work for the paper this year possesses one vote in what is shaping up as a contest too close to call. Any member of the student body is eligible to run for the position of Editor. All interested candidates must of which they can take advantage. IMPLJ;MENT ATION lEF projects would fall into three general categories. The first category, prospectively named ''committee initiated projects,\ would include projects, determined by The Planning and Priorites Committees and other appropriate committees, designed toward a \specific major objective at the college.\ Included in this category, the Committee recommends the establishment of an Educational Enrichment Fund. This would provide a selected number of exceptional candidates for admission with a merit award, held by the college in their trust, to be used to \finance independent scholarly investigation performed under the supervision of a faculty member.\ ··Proposed programs, which depend upon campus initiative,\ the recommended second category, would include projects that are· important for the enrichment of the College's ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ present a written statement of policy and intent with respect to the organization and management of the paper, to Mrs. Marra in the Student Activities Office by Feh. 14. ~~~-~~ Apply NOW for Fall Terms in England, France, and Italy! Information and application forms for all \Union Terms Abroad,\ as well as for other foreign study, are available in Humanities 211.

Pagt•1 CONCORDIENSJS,feb. 2, !p77 culture ·arto Copland: A Life. of Mrt-sic David Bowie, whose n~w album, \Low\, mtes the lowest of all his works. Five pieces by Aaron Copland will be presented Friday, Feb. II, in a concert sponsored by the American Composers' Forum in cooperation with Union College. The concert will be at g p.m. in Union's Memorial ChapeL Copland, America's premier composer, will be on hand for the concert on a visit made possible by a grant from Meet the Composer, a statewide service progtatn of the New York Council of· the Arts. Copland will be available to the public on two occasions during his visit - first at a free seminar at 1 p.m. Friday in the Union College Arts Building, and again · after the concert in Memorial Chapel. Area singers and musicians will perform Copla·nd warks .spanning more than 50 years of his celebrated career. They range Is Bowie Due for Disa,ster? by IRA GOODMAN but infinitely more boring), and the type of 4-bar repetition that the average ten year old is capable of writing. beware. It has been k;nown to turn off even the most loyal of Bowie fans including yours truly. Avoid this album at all costs, unless you need some music to keep you asleep at night. from \Vitehsk which Copland wrote in 1929, tO \Duo for Flute and Piano,\ written in 1971. Among the other pieces to be performed are \Sonata far Violin and Piano,\ ( 1942-3), \Selected Poems of Emily Dickinson,\' (1950), and, \'In the Beginning\ (1947). Most of the performers are members of the Albany Symphony Orchestra, including conductor and violinist Julil!ls Hegyi. Hegyi, cellist Douglas Moore, and pianist Charlotte Hegyi. will perform \Vitebsk which Copland based on a theme of Jewish origin. \Sonata for Violin and Piano,\ which Copla-nd dedicated to a friend killed in the South Pacific during World War II, will be pefformed by violinist Marianne Pashler and pianist Juana Zayas. Flutist Eleanor Boot and pianist JoAnn Locke will play ••ouo for Flute and Piano,\ a piece Copland composed on commission by pupils of the late flutist William Kincaid. The Hartwick Chorale, conducted by Thurston D,ox, a~d mezzo soprano Carol Randles will perform ''In the Beginning,\ the text of which is taken· from Genesis. - : .Soprano Jane Bucci, who is the principle organizer of the American Composers' - Forum, will .join pianist Joseph Fennimore in .. Selected Poems of Emily Dickinson.\ They will do s~ven of the 12 Dickinsop. poems Copland put tQ music. Like the poems, Copland's pieces dea,l with the themes of nature, death, life and eternity. Virgit Thompson has written that Aaron Copland's .. first gift\ to American music Was his \consecrated professionalism.\ Thompson calls Copland \long the , unquestioned leader\ of modernistic American composers, and now their \president emeritus.\ The Copland concert is the second in a series of three ·concerts in the American Composers' Forum Series. The first, in early January, featured the work of Lukas ·Foss. The third, featuring t!le work of four area composers, will be April 29. The intent of the American Composers' Forum Series is to bring both the music of more American composers ·and the ·composers themselves· to the area Tickets for the Feb. 11 concert . may be purchased at the door for $4 to the general public and $2 to students with l.D. cards. They may he purchased in· adv11nce by phoning or writing Jane Bucci, 914 St. David's Lane, Schenec~ady; N.Y. 12309 (393- 7229). . David Bowie's new album is named Low, and with good cause. This is the lowest piece of trash the former glitter-boy of rock has ever recorded. Bowie has undergone many transformations in his long career, and perhaps his last transformation into an actor should be followed to completion, because if this album is any indication of Bowie's musical direction, he's headed for disaster. The first song on side A is thoughtlessly misnomered \Speed of Life.\ U,pon hearing this song, I thought my turntable had· slowed to about half its proper speed. Unfortunately, this song set the pace for the rest of the album. The fourth track, \Sound and Vision,\ is the only one. that approaches listenability, mainly because it is the only song that moves. Side A concluded with a plethora' of electronic noise, including one song that soun'ded like Hell's Angels getting ready to roll. Orchestra Performs at Chapel Ever since the days of albums such as Zj_ggy Stardust and · Aladdin Sane, Bowie's trademarks have been expressive, dominating vocals, air-tight instrumentals, poetic (though occasionally weird) lyrics, and always a moving beat. Up until this album I had never been bored by a David Bowie song. This album buries all of the . distinguishing features that made Bowie the superstar he once was (notice the past tense). This album is chara,cterized by a blatant lack of vocals, an inc red i b I e overabundance of synthesized strings, keyboards, etc. (along the vein of Pink Floyd I flipped to side B hoping for salvation from this wreck. I was greeted. however, by more electronic drones reminiscent of a funeral dirge and Martian vocals with some occasional groans that make you wish that Bowie had never fallen to Earth. This album does have a message, and the message IS by DELANNE STAGEMAN The sixty-seven member Schenectady Sy mp ho ny Orchestra appeared in concert last Friday night at Memorial Chapel. Led by Anthony Pezzano, they performed works of Brahms, Beethoven, Barber and Schubert. Unfortunately, attendance was poor, due to the \blizzard\ that blew up early in the evening. Brahms' Academic Festival Overture, op. 80, opened the program with pomp and gaiety. Although the strings suffered some intonation problems, the orchestra gave a spirited reading of the work, closing with appropriate fanfare. Films This Week Caroline Stoessinger was piano soloist in the; Beethoven Concerto No. 4, in G major, op. 58. Surprisingly, for a professional pianist, Ms. Stoessinger played from a printed score. However, her interpretation left little to be The New York Erotic Film Festival to be shown this weekend kicks off another active week of films on campus. The Erotic Film Festival which has been shown on campuses across the nation prom1s·es to be a porn connoisseur's delight. On Tuesday, February 8, In Cold Blood, starring John Forsvthe and Robert Blake ('Baretta') and based on Truman Capote's docu-novel of the killing of a real life Kansas family will be shown in SS 016. The film, photographed in stark black and white is generally considered one of Hollywood's finest studies of crimes. Wednesday, Feb. 9, The Ruling Class, starring Peter O'Toole as a British Lord who alternately fantasizes himself as Jesus and Jack the Ripper will be on display. The social satire was well received by critics, but never found a public. 1 hursday. 1-eb. 10~ Marcel Ophul's documentary. The Sorrow and the Pity, about (i.c_rrnan occupation pi .France . dunng. WW II vo~ll he shov.n. I hi~ long, 4-hour film is considered to be the finest documentary ever made on WW II. ........................... ,. • ~:~&.\'~~ • . ' . • • • = i ) YJf3SV.~ i • N • •. I . THE WRUC NOTT WITTS • • are back, and this time watch out. Listen I =for laughs this Saturday at 7 p.m. This : • week's guest- Rich Siegal of the Skellar. Ml • • • TRINITY BASKETBALL M1 I this Saturday at , 8 p~m. Buffalo Hockey I = following the B-Ba:ll game. I . . ~ • Get your WRUC WINTER PROGRAM· = · I MIN G GUIDE now. If you didn't get one · •· =in your dorm, come on up to the station. A I I ~~lua~le. coupon is included. . . = . ................ :a .• ,.a~•····,···\M desired and she included the first Intonation difficulties were left movement . cadenza w:hich is behind and the mood of the piece omitt~d in some recordings. Astde · . c~mc: tl;uougb with .. f()rce. The from a few minor slips, her group .showed good enstmible and performance was polished the difficult high notes produced without being mechanical. The by the first violins were clear and orchestra support was at times sharp. The only disturbing note harsh and ••dead\ sounding, but was the noise made by mutes the wind parts were clear and bein~ .picked up from music lucid, despite the missing piccolo stands, prepratory to their use, player kept away by the snow. halfway through the Adagio. Some sp\->tlights would have The program closed with saved the: front part of the stage, Schubert's Symphony No. 5 in B including the soloist, from being flat Major. This work's intensely enveloped in darkness. Germanic, Romantic spirit, The performance of Samuel anticipating Schumann's Rhenish Barber's Adagio for Strings was Symphony, was ha.ndled dedicated to the memory of Earle admirably. A less than clear tone Hummel and Robert Meade. Mr. from the French horns toward the Pezzano spoke to the audience end of the fourth movement did from the podium before not mar the piece's inherent conduc.ting the piece, saying that beauty.• Dynamics were well Mr. Hummel had been contmlled ·to enhance the concertmaster of the orchestra for thoughtful but charming mood. several years and that Mr. Meade The next concert by the had been principal violist. The Schenectady Symphony strings shone in the Barber work. Orchestra will be March 12 at Niskayuna High School. r~~~~ ~· ine ~flc I ~ Hl!:A UTIF_l?L NOISE :sl. 31., A Juke box is a many sided thing, , 'ff Nf but a record can't compare Jl. ~ with the sounds of a summer night. tlf.. Few things speak like a picture ~ and l!- book, with many words, say~ little .. ~ - Paul Waldron :.> I WAY ~ The sun was at my back Jl. As I stared across and east. ¥f l9. It curled its rays about my ~ tft Hair and tried to pull me back. · l/1.. But I preferred the straight way on tft With trees at either side ~~ ~ And nothing forward up or down tf.{ Except the blue void sky. Jl. ' .... Jan De Oeka ff.f ~ Send your poems for publication in Fine Lines to: ~ 1ft Delanne Stageman, Fine Lines Editor\ Box 1738. Any l'- legible work, accompanied. by the author's name and ft phone no. ts welcome. It requested, poems wtll be Jl. ;t ~:inted unsigned or with a pseudonym. Questions or tf.! ~oS:n;;~S~~;;;;:~J a Photc will lect work Wednes speak a of the Admiss1 Rich~ highly peo.ple \Few C first w VISTA Marc B I hav4 I have 1 its peoi you th perhaps with gu are a I people group o call the call the1 man nc and I c~ same \ which i below tl I say th1 do not t I see a field an see a bl~ and I ! there ar blacks c the Sou Tragic a where p But a the rna perhaps doll'! Pe subway and pe1 corner h the rock Why il and aga which is true'! We is my pr< I am not leuing .. preconceJ hand, be1 in it~ Of roo. thos a Gang. the mon Levi jad have ean were ca. sticks. Nc hand ove the Sou appropri~ to be Sl: what apf he is wea top, his h from a 1i his hair revelatior to go wit that enab Well, i that he v far that t only in s itnmortali say that do11s, or I docs. thcr just ain't that this art docs tor what 'i or hc:ltt:r: lhl\\. Ill I hl\l!ld. i' 'l i' , '\ • . ,. A • 't ~ ' .It:'\< ..

y CG_NCORDIENSIS. Feb. ?, 197~ Page_5 culture Photographer Eugene Richards to Lecture Photographer Eugene Richards will lecture and show slides of his work at Union College Wednesday, Feb. 9. Richards will speak at 1:30 p.m. in Room 016 of the Social Sciences Building. Admission is free. Richards is best known for his highly praised por.trait of the people of the Arkansas Delta, \Few Comforts or Surprises.\ He first went to the Delta as a VISTA volunteer. After two years Photo Focus Marc Brilliant witb\ the organization, he left to found a private social~action program providing paralegal services and distributing food and clothing in West Memphis. A:s he became increasingly involved in the black community, Richards began to use his camera to record what he observed. His subjects range from children at play to an African-stylewedding to scenes of work and home life. The major elements of Delta existence - death, religion, and imprisonment - are also the primary elements of Richards' photographs. The New York Times Book Review called \Few Comforts or Surprises\ an ·~expose and a lament; its strength comes from the fact that Richards doesn't separate these qualities, they now naturally. Richards takes demanding, beautiful pictures.\ I have never been to the South; I have never lived among any of its people. Of course, I can tell you that they are black, or perhaps white trash, or fat cops with guns on their hips. But they are a little bit for me like the people on t;he lRT - I see a group ofPuer:to Rican kids and I call them .a Gang (even more, l - call them Puerto Ricans), 1 see a man nodding off in the corner and I call him an Apdict. In the same way I see photographs which I find have been taken below the Mason-Dixon line, and I say they are of the South. No, I do not even have to know that- I see a black man outside in a field and I say it is the South; 1 see a black boy in bright sunlight and I say it is the South. But there are other ways: 1 see two· blacks crying, and I know I am in the SouQt because the South is Tragic and Oppressive and that is where people must \endure.\ Photo from Eugene Richards' portrait of ;.he Arkansas Delta, \Few Comforts or Surprises ... But are they crying? Perhaps the man has just seen God, perhaps the boy has just found a doll'? Perhaps those kids in the subway are just a group of kids and perhaps the. man in the corner has merely fallen asleep to the rocking of the train? Why is it that 1 am tricked time and again into thinking that which is not necessarily true to be true'! Well, on the ene.hand, that is my problem- I am being lazy, I am not looking carefully, 1 am leuing .myself. be .guided by preconceptions. But on the other hand, be(;;a.U.$e' there:is so.ml}.truth· · in it ofcourse,' .foo .times\ out of . 100, those kids d.o. not.have to be a Gang, but then, it was 3:00 in the morning, they were wearing Levi jackets, a few of them did have earrings and a few of them were carrying golf clubs and sticks. Nor does that mari with his hand over his eye. have to be from the South (or perhaps, more appropriately, I should say: \have to be Black\) but then, he is-in what appears to be a rural area, he is wearing a worn knit sort of top, his hands do seem to be worn from a lifetime of outdoor labo~ his hair is whitish, and doesn't revelation or crying or both seetn to go with :;ill that, and doesn't all that enable me to call him Black'! . Well, in a way. But let us say that he wiH be Black only in so far that he is in the photograph; only in so fa.r that he has been immortalized in Art. Let us not say that an blacks do what he docs, or that if one does what he docs. then one is alack. because it just ain't so. Let us. instead. say that this is art. and this is what art dncs nor do I know why or lnr what purp11sc: it creates myth: or h~:ttcr:. it shows us where. and h1n'. m the \\ orld myths qm h.: Winter Carnival Weekend on the Way ALL students are encouraged to participate· in the various. activities that have been planned for this 2nd annual Winter Carnival Weekend! It aU begins on: FEB. ll (Friday} with: 'fug of War: Wilt be held in Achilles Rink. The teams will consist of either ten men, twelve women, or five men and six Also will be held in the rink. Each team will have a representative on the student team. There will also be faculty recruited to compete . against the students. The game will be held also on Feb. I I and will begin approximately !It 8:45. There will be two halves. Sneakers should be worn. Wine ~nd Cheese Coffeehouse: The Union College Soda! Scene from Winter .Carnival of 1976 wo.men. Every dorm and fraternity will be represented by one team. Fox and Davidson will have a team for each of the North and South sides. Preliminary rounds will be held Feb. 9, lO, and II between 12:00 and I :00. The semi-finals and the finals will be held Friday evening at 9: 10 and at 9:50. The Obstacle Course: Will also be held in Achilles Rink. Every team represented in the Tug of War will be represented in this event as Well as in all subsequent events. Each team will have one skater who will be timed as he I she skates through the course. This event will begin promptly at 8:00p.m. Cheering: During the Obstacle Course dorms and frats are encouraged to br.ing banners and have cheers. There will be a I st. 2nd. and 3rd place for those teams with the best cheering section. Committee and Coffeehouse will co-sponsor this event in Old Chapel. It will begin at I 0: 15 and admission will be $1,50. -!-ryis_will include free wine. cheese, and crackers. Jay and Lyn Unger will provide the music. Feb. 12 (Saturday): Snow Sculptures: At I :00 p,m. the Social Committee will begin judging the snow sculptures. This will take between two and three hours. Every team will be judged and credited points for what they shall define to be thei-r snow sculpture .. Cross-Count·ry Ski Race: The Outing Club will co-sponsor with the Social Committee a X- Country Ski Race. Each team will have at least one skier compete. The event will begin approximately at 2:45. Hot drinks will be provided by the Social Committee. Equipment wiil he supplied by the Outing Cluh. This will follow Country Ski Race. the Cross- ·Music: WRUC will be providing music the entire afternoon. The Social Cemmittee also asks students to tune in to WRUC and play their speakers · out· the window. Awards: Awards will be given after the Chug-a-lug. Winners of certain -events will be given separate awards. Points will be accumulated for each event and the winner ot the entire weekend will be given a special award including the Winter Carnival Weekend Trophy. Refreshments will be provided at the A wards' Ceremonv. Candlelight Dinner: This will be a semi-formal buffet in the Hale Hollse dining room from 4:30 - 9:30 .p.m. Roast prime rib of beef with baked potato will be the main course. The meal will also include a Caesar Salad. and eclairs and cream puffs for .. . dessert. It is suggested that you bring your own wine. Meals will cost $3.50 per person and reservations must be made in advance in Student Activities. . . Semi-formal Ball: This will be held in the Ramada Inn Ballroom with live entertainment from 10:00 p.m. to 2:00 a.m. Tickets will be $1.00 each. Tickets for all mixed drinks will cost $1.00. Tickets for beer will be 50 tt • a . quarter for soda. We suggest you purchase tickets in advance because of the expected heavy turnout, although tickets for all drinks will be purchasable at the Ball. Feb. 12 (Sunday) Sunday Brunch: The Pub will be serving a Sunday Brunch at the price of $1. 75. Information concerning time will be available later. · HOPE TO SEE YOU TH-ERE! ALL Game Night Every Tuesday at 9 pm THIS TUESDAY BANANA SPLITS. Intellectual Cabaret Monday, February 7 at 8:30pm Professor -Les Downin-g Presents- \Throats md Goats: Self Interest and. the Common GGod'' When foreed to choose b~tween our own best interests and those of others, who wins out? Monday, February 14 IS CHINA A STALINIST STATE? Professors Don Thurston, Bruce Reynolds and Susan Blader and Union student JQhn Rivkin. ALL PROGRAMS IN STRAUSS LOli:\GE A'f 8:30pm ll'llllld. \r;o .. ·' , . ,r •• • .Y ~ ••. .1\ • Chug-a-lug: l:vcry tean1 \nil hun: lour hccr drinkers each ol ·: . , • .I·;~;u!~>:\·S / .. ,Bm~J;r~hall;,, '»·hJHU:W.i1l\ _,J.IIII!~!IIII!I\RIJIIIIII,illll•ll!'l-.~---------------· FREE REF'RESHME:\ IS!

Page 6 CONCORDIENSIS, Feb. 2. }9,77 EDITORIALS Ed. Foundation Though the Internal Educational Foundation remains in the preimplementation stage, we applaud the program's concept and its initiators. Union has lost its once deserved reputation as an educationally progressive school and has settled over the past few years into a lethargic mt of stagnation. The IEF, in its innovative vigor and vibrant uniqueness, promises to offer the much needed inspiration and spark for new, worthwhile movement on campus. The program, while providing new avenues for student and faculty scholarship, will offer Union publicity as an exemplary academic institution. This is precisely the kind of visibility that the C6Uege needs. The Foundation symbolizes the embodiment of an active commitment to an educational concept that Union has theoretically adhered to (though functionally ignored) over the past few years. Oppressed by the onus of comp eds and an administration and faculty that has refused to exercise the dynamic leadership and motivation required for academic progress, Union needs the lEF to foster and encourage intellectual innovation on the campus. The opportunities implicit in the Foundation are innumerable. If the IEF can be taken as a portent of the College's plans for the future, Union is assured of new found resiliency and academic improvement. Bonner's View On January 19th of this year, Dr. Bonner addressed the Board of Trustees. His speech, entitled, \The State of Union College: The Promise and the Paradox,\ basically boils down to a litany of Union's supposed strengths and plans for the future ('.the promise'\) and of the attitudes of some people on campus that simply do not have the sagacity to fully understand, support, and intensely desire Dr. Bonner's model of a comprehensive college (\the paradox\). We must confess that we find Dr. Bonner's address riddled with its own contradictions and paradoxes. First of all, we suggest that Dr. Bonner resolve in his own mind whether Union ought to be a small college that should concentrate on internal educational problems or whether we should go the route of a medium sized University, along__ the lines of the University of Rochester, and gain recognition by public relations efforts. The confusion is not frivolous. It seems many have lost sight of Union, the undergraduate college. In his entire address, the quandaries of general education, and advisory system that is a s~mbles, and other pertinent problems of education on campus are ignored. Rather, athletics and its public relations benefits, which Dr. Bonner has repeatedly said in his Concordy column takes up too much of the campus' attention, is given in his own address m()re attention and space than any other aspect or issue. His politicking is painfully visible. Benefits of increased athletics are specifically mentioned, while drawbacks are thrown in under the catchword of \liabilities.\ Our public relations cookies, according to Dr. Bonner, lie in the athletic basket. Indeed, his outspokenness against the Task Force Report makes one wonder if Professor Kershner's resignation as Athletic Director doesn't have further political implications behind it. We are highly enthused that Dr. Bonner proclaims his support for the arts twice in the address. Aside from a search for a teacher of Art History, the entire Arts Report submitted by the outside Arts consultants last year has been ignored by all major decision makers and governing bodies on campus. It is ironic that within a month after the release of the Athletic Task Force Report, the All-College Senate will debate its findings as a Committee of the Whole. It has been five months since the Arts Report has been released and there has been no such discussion in Senate, no real action to implement or study in further detail its recommendations. We agree again with Dr. Bonner that Union's development effort ought to be second to none. Increased financial support of the College is imperative for any positive change to develop on campus. On the other hand, Dr. Bonner also states, \without realization of the promise of close student-faculty contacts, we can never compete with the larger, better-financed public universities.\ What has Dr. Bonner or any administrator done to influence a faculty that has peev1shly resisted any student suggestions for educational improvements for the past two years in the Senate and would rather argue among themselves than try to make Union work in an innovative. educationally efficient. and cohesive fashion? I here arc other ideas that Dr. Bonner mentions that we would hope arc pursued a summer term, the already mentioned Arts expanswn, until now mere lip service, and a vigorous campaign to bcauuly the campus. We are pleased to see some of these plans are underway. and in these areas we applaud Dr. Bonner, In sum. we, like Dr. Bonner. find Union an exciting. attractive place to ~tudy. Union is a unique college in many ways: an enginecnng dl\ision. the lAM program. a plethora of eating and gathenn,g 'Poh. amongst other virtues, We submit, though, that ncn 11 Dr Bonner want' w. to he a \comprehensive college\ or ;mother I ni\cr,itv of Rochester (as opposed to the Wlll!am~manmc-.). linwn \till needs to locus our limited re,ources on mternal educatwnal proolcnh. the Art!-.. Comp. Eds .. raising the qual!t) (ll ,tudr.:nh. C't~.: It'-. lme to he \J~Ihk and have a national rl·rutation. hut let u' hope at th~· ~arne ttmc that when we let nt.·n nlll' pt.•t:k Into our hou .. e. v.t: malo.c !>Ure that the turmture I!'> 1n llrdcr Why Not Try Being by MATT BRIEF This column isn't about politics, or Comp-Ed mish- mashes; o.r Athletic dilemmas or anything of that nature. In the next two weeks, each student at Union has the opportunity to just do something to help people less fortunate than he or she. On Wednesday and Thursday, February 2nd and 3rd, the Bloodmobile will make its termly visit to the alumni gymnasium. Theta Delta Chi has put up a keg that will be given to the floor or fraternity with the hightest rate of blood donors. Tne last time such a contest was sponsored, the winning group had a donor rate of 35%. Yes, it's cold and windy; yes, you couldn't affort to be tired for a few hours, you had a big test, allergies, or a prolonged case of hepatitis that prevented you from Nice Sometimes ? giving in the past. · For , :the telethon for each stuclent that approximately twenty minutes skips one meal. tomorrow, brave the cold. wander There will be <;>ther vehicles to up to the gym ·and give some contribute to the effort. At the precious .life-saving blood. Thirty hockey game against Buffal() 'this five percent is not such a ·Saturday, there will be collection formidable figure that most floors boxes all over Achille;:~ Rink. or fraternities can't exceed it. Each floor a11d fratemity should The other opportunity that have at least one person coHecting Union has to show its concern ,for money. At the telethan, .one large others less fortunate is the check will be given an 'behalf of Cerebral Palsy Telethon to be the students ofthe Union College, held February 12th and 13th on Student Body. WTEN. Union has been given one If you desire to go to the half an hour for student talent to telethon and support our student be televised, and IS students have performers, there will be a bus to already volun~eered to man take students, in jovial spirits telephones. This is extraordinary from the Winter Ball to the in light of our designated half Albany Armory. hour - 3:30-4:00 A.M. Please, let's get off politics, However, there are many other winter blues., personal' neuroses, opportunities for Union students or any other unpleasant to contribute to this worthy manifestatian of Union life and effort. There will be a food fast at help out in th.e blood drive or the West College, sometime next battle against Cerebral Palsy. No week. SAGA has promised to .one ought to preclude kindness donate a certain sum of money to, from the college experience. Ar1 bec01 and conse stude there part 1 stllde !'vh seriot kind COI:lrS who Po lie: chair1 sugge be so cours as ne Thim much given facult Presic Wl Unfo1 made plans and· impb invol' only J analy word! shoul that comn the 1 heads saHf possil Not such i willlx De decisi and durin prom stude buildi study areal cause since to the The I .; ,.

Page 6 CONCORDIENSJS, Feb. 2, J977 - . . EDITORIALS Ed. Foundation Though the Internal Educational Foundation remains in the preimplementation stage, we applaud the pregram's concept and its initiators. Union has lost its once deserved reputation as an educationally progressive school and has settled over the past few years into a lethargic rut of stagnation. The IEF, in its iHnovative vigor and vibrant uniqueness, .promises to offer the much needed inspiration and spark for new, worthwhile movement on campus. The program, while providing new avenues for student and faculty scholarship, will offer Union publicity as an exemplary academic institution. This is precisely the kind of visibility that the Coi'lege needs. The Foundation symbolizes the embodiment of an active commitment to an educational concept that Union has theoretically adhered to (though functionally ignored) over the past few years. Oppressed by the onus of comp eds and an administration and faculty that has refused to exercise the dynamic leadership and motivation required for academic progress, Union needs the IEF to foster and encourage intellectual innovation on the campus. The opportunities implicit in the Foundation are innumerable. If the lEF can be taken as a portent of the College's plans for the future, Union is assured of new found resiliency and academic improvement. Bonner's View On January 19th of this year, Dr. Bonner addressed the Board of Trustees. His speech, entitled, \The State of Union College: The Promise and the Paradox,\ basically boils down to a litany of Union's supposed strengths and plans for the future (\the promise\) and of the attitudes of some people on campus that simply do not have the sagacity to fully understand, support, and intensely desire Dr. Bonner's model of a comprehensive college (\the paradox\). We must confess that we find Dr. Bonner's address riddled with its own contradictions and paradoxes. First of all, we suggest that Dr. Bonner resolve in his own mind whether Union ought to be a small college that should concentrate on internal educational problems or whether we should go the route of a medium sized University, along the lines of the University of Rochester, and gain recognition by public relations efforts. The confusion is not frivolous. It seems many have lost sight of Union, the undergraduate college. In his entire address, the quandaries of general education, and advisory system that is a s~mbles, and other pertinent problems of education on campus are ignored. Rather, athletics and its public relations benefits, which Dr. Bonner has repeatedly said in his Concordy column takes up too much of the campus' attention, is given in his own address more attention and space than any other aspect or issue. His politicking is painfully visible. Benefits of increased athletics are specifically mentioned, while drawbacks are thrown in under the catchword of \liabilities.\ Our public relations cookies, according to Dr. Bonner, lie in the athletic basket. Indeed, his outspokenness against the Task Force Report makes one wonder if Professor Kershner's resignation as Athletic Director doesn't have further political implications behind it. We are highly enthused that Dr. Bonner proclaims his support for the arts twice in the address. Aside from a search for a teacher of Art History, the entire Arts Report submitted by the outside Arts consultants last year has been ignored by all major decision makers and governing bodies on campus. It is ironic that within a month after the release of the Athletic Task Force Report, the All-College Senate will dehate its findings as a Committee of the Whole. It has been five months since the Arts Report has been released and there has been no such discussion in Senate, no real action to implement or study in further detail its recommendations. We agree again with Dr. Bonner that Union's development effort ought to be second to none. Increased financial support of the College is imperative for any positive change to develop on campu::;. On the other hand, Dr. Bonner also states. \without reah1ation of the promi~c of close student-faculty contacts, we can never compete v.Jth the larger. hctter-financed public universities.\ What has Dr. Honner or any administrator done to influence a faculty that hm pee\ 1..,hly resi~tcd any student suggestions lor educational Improvcmenh lor the past two years in the Senate and would rather argue among them~clve~ than try to make Union work m an Irln<l\atl\e. educationally efficient. and cohe~1ve f<l\hion\' I here arc other Idea~ that Dr. Bonner ment10m that Vve v,ould hope arc pur;.ued a ~ummer term, the already mentioned Arb cl<.pamion, until nov, mere lip ~en Jcc, and a \igoroU!> campaign to lwautil~ the campus. Vn: arc plea~ed to ~ec !>orne of the~c plan~ are under'.'.a~. and In thc~e area~ Vvt: applaud Dr. Honner. In ..,um. '.'.t:. like I>r. Honncr. lmd l.num an exciting. attracti\C rl~tn· to -,tud~ I nHw 1;. a unique college In many way\: an eng:Jm·crifl!! OI\J'>IIlll. the IA:-..1 program. a plethora of catmg and g:atlwrmg o.,pc.lt'. among'>! other \JrtUe\. We ~uhmlt. though. that t'\L\Tl II I )r Bnnncr v,anh U\ to he a \comprchcml\e college'\ or .tllDthn I lll\l'f,ll\ of Roche..,ter lit~ oppo..,ed to the \\ Jilum ... rnanJ.!l'-l. I n1nn 'till need.., to f<ll\U;. our limited rc,ottrceo, on lfllrrnal cducatJonal rrohkfll'>. the 1\rt .... ( \omp. l·d- .. rai>Ing the Ljll.lilt~ c>l 'tuLknh. elL J(, fllll' !11 he 1 1..,1hk and h;ne a national r,·rut.tltPll. hut kt 11, hc>pc at thL· 'arne time that '.'.hen '.'.L' let L'IL\f\<lllL\ pcd lfllc> IIIH hciU,l'. V.L' ll1ake \Ufe that the fUf!liiUre II lf1 ,,rJcr Why Not Try Being Nice Sometimes ? by MATT BJU EF This column isn't about politics, or Comp-Ed. mish- mashes, or Athletic dilemmas or anything of that nalure. In the next two weeks, ·each student at Union has the opp~rt~nity to just do something to help pe-ople less fortunate than he ~r she. On Wednesday and'. Thtusday, February 2nd at:1d 3rd, the Bloodmobile will make its termly visit to the alumr~.i gymnasium. Theta Delta Chi ha:S !J>Ul up a keg that will be given to the Hoor or fraternity with the higbtest rate of blood doRors. The last time such a contest was spons()red, the winning group had a donor rate of 35%. Yes, it's cold and windy; yes, you couldn't affort to be tired for a few hours, you had a big test, allergies, or a prolan ged case of hepatitis that prevented you from giving in the past. For approximately twenty minutes tomorrow, brave the cold, wander up to the gym and give some precious life-saving blood. Thirty five percent is not such a formidable figure that most floors or fraternities can't exceed it. The other opportunity that Union has to show its concern for others less fortunate is the Cerebral Palsy Telethon to be held February 12th and 13th on WTEN. Union has been given one half an hour for stMdent talent to be televised, and 15 students have already volunteered to man telephones. This is extraordinary in light of our designated half hour - 3:30-4:00 A.M. However, there are many other opportunities for Union students to contribute to this worthy effort. There will be a food fast at West College, sometime next week. SAGA has promised to donate a certain sum of money to ·l;'E\~. ·y·' ·. :J'~ \E>·. ;R: ·: ,·s· ·.· ·.·' ·~ :_.· . - : ' . ·:~ -·-·· ·- :·· : '- :-. :-: •. ·.' . ~ ,., . . A •-;.}-' '<::_-> .,-~:_:_; .. - ·,.-: __ --)'' .A--~;- ... >~-:(~::: _..,., .... the telethon for each student that skif>s one meal. There will be other vehi-cles to contribute to the effort. At the hockey game against Buffalo this Saturday, there will be collection boxes aJ.l over Achi;lles Rink. Each floor and fraternity should have at least one person coHecting money. At the telethon, one large check will be given on behalf of the students of the Union C allege Student Body. If you desire to go to the telethon and s1:1pport o1:1r student performers, there will be a bus to take students, in jovial spirits from the Winter BaH to the Albany Armory. Please, let's get off politics, winter blues, personal neuroses, or any other unpleasant manifestation of Union life and help out in the blood drive or the battle against Cerebral Palsy. No . one ought to preclude kindness from the college experience. eomp-ed hou~w.ork arQund ,nere, · .·. tAJ.l8t.f. f.t.nd ~ne¢i~!lY:·if be.h.~d But l wish.that..QadQ hadn't b~~n,>-~· stUdfAnt .. audt;r . tJt,~r To the Editms: Next week\'s llomework assignment, fQir tltose who have read the tac~lt~\ ~matk.!i about CampEd in the pages. of the ConeMdy,. 'Witl be an exercise in somrce materials and resf)Qnsible r-eadi11g. ·The bibliography lists Prof_ Gati's letter of l/12~ my- respnnse of J /19; and l>ribf. Gado's . rejoinder on lf26. After Jt careful reading.,. w-:rite an essay on the questio~; \Is there communicaticm goin~ on here. or something . el~~? Are h>sues joined, ot avoi!deq?\: . . ··• Nowhere in ny- e!irlier letter can 1 .· find . the '~a~olozy . fol:\ CompEd\ tbat G~<lQ cha.r~s. me with maldng, u!Uess·· fie · m.~ans. my mild tiSsertio:rt ··tha.t Comp.Ed had - son.ie: sntces~s as well as fa1locre~. h:I(J' find a remark~ . in· a .{J'.rclblinent i)~¥.J.ce,' that \this letter is no't a defknse of the CompEd p~ogr.am\ .:__. a statement that· I · h~d thought plain enough I(}r the average reader. And E find the· admission tl1at '\\it's time for. rebuilding aBabn'' an endeavor, Gado must be relieved to knm~F, im which I have no part tlttis time. Except (I hope) to cotnme!It and vote responsibly. If tr.:at's what Gado regards as boosterism and \raising hlign the Gopher Prairie banner,\ then l plead guilty, with no a po lagies. I also said that a decent perspective had yet to be given the history of CornpEd, and after reading Gado's long, hammet-and·tcngs,. admittedly \jaundiced\ reoeital, l must say the same thing agaill. The task awaits a less ov.erheated .pen. Gada's astomisnitlgly dear recollection ()'f c;lirty motives and political betrayals does. not quite co inti de with anything I can ltec:all, but let those differen-ce$. stand in the past. And U I ever said anything abqut the equal ••validity\ of soap opera and Sophocles ('[ CE:ttainJy don't recall that! Does it sound charactel'istic'! }, it must have been in one of those teasing conversation~ used to have before the hu111~r disappeared . f~lt the<n~d to tate:. Q:n the ri~Q,~~.;:ll~ 9)ightdust,P9~~i~lY . ·rble qf :Qati 4 s Btilt · · ;··I'J¢CJj,U$J: l)~Y~<.$1.l.s1t~~ti, t~m · ~Y,~\l.:;ll),ote Ciaii d~sn't :need ' . _ ln~t~d. . tlm,q ·. ~e d:~.Sitk~~~, :(;'<tmpEd. (turning now to Gati•s .. letter of. Wiii:t . nine. • years .. · . n:wr:e last .week. 4msWefing mj:n~j}' l .. , . e~~pe.p,ce ,hl(p.~ .tbaJ1 n~ (llO thin,lf ti{!Jl\!ilY ·~~.: sqr&tised,~iJ:n(i.i. · .·· . v~~t,~5in . i.t~.. of· c<l!1tse), I I hQtl¢ please(!) to kn.ow h(lw : . · htiy:e some $nUill advttnta,ge pf rttt;y'h Jfi ili!eem~rit w~ ma,:y.l)e. ' /' ,p~,fspt.ctive. ~dd tO' t~t:: my l .atri rnJ!l!'l.J:l!Y r¢assQre.d, b~ itt~ eli(fJi~! . . fo!lr . y~ars . a-s an llJO:ie . j)osk(ive (tl:{'O.ug•h Jlfid&tgt'adtiftte,. :al)d: [. thin;k l underst~ritl~bly stilL sketch'¥)\: ~e ,a Jmtter nction of how sugges~ions he .. lias .ab(}ut: . . u~f~ginative {lnd constricting gene.rai , edti~tion. , ·· th:O$.\i requirements were. I · l ltadAiop~d. ln1wevert that a~ree with <J~ti thats<lmethfng my letter was• mote clear than . \innn (and . only that) .is 1t app~u:~ntly wils1o hitth What · nQt necessarily· better and may l of1J~bted ···~<l jbt;:HiS: :original be. war_~>e, ~~t: C~mpE~; Jtad at l~t~r. wa~ n(ll ht~ at~ .. ott l the .. :.g~~trve vutue of COU!!PP4,. bul..tht. af\ ill . ~il.ls s~inething nobody th~ ~s.t.[!a,rag~pJi.,:., . .. . . . . issuing .. P-iS. ,up¢~s l~ · . ~~~9s~~r~i;wth~/~~~~~~ .: .· ... edttcatitm ... t.li:at h~. .. .:t , ~. . ¥me.rg~tltiS. . . ·'htL . said · t.···'fiv¢ or te1i< frow how •.. - I wUl .not have· voted fol'' it, it and wciuld not want to be caned .. responsible'; for it. It was that attitude that seemed to me (and if Gati still maintained it, would still seem) deplorable. To pre-judge a curriculum, even before it's proposed. seemed not only unfair but even unintelligent. Even before we see the proposal, he seemed to be against it. Would anyone make anything else out of that las~ parngraph? 1 wasn't the only one to get that message. But things seem to have shifted now, I'm glad to say. What gives me bett~t heart this week 15 that Gati seems to have re<:overed his better spirits, and talks more positively about a \modified distribution requirement.\ If I knew a little more about what \modified'' would mean, 1 might very well agree with him - and hope that he would not be too embarrassed by that. But, to use his analogy, l think that \~odified\ would have to mean a bit more than just shining up that old Chevy. My College catalog reminds me that Gati came to Union in 1963, only a year or two before we abandoned the old distrihtltron requ.irements. If he had li\ed under them a tittle · .~ that G~ti~d r t~er \'f~~kt~~~ ~!it;\e m~y he n: · \:Of general ttf b~'' made p(d)~ic,. he:::wut wait tt~ see:. it &ef<tie··• vo agai~st · it. ~ot that he a· ftiight .have no ltl'Ote di~mefifs _:._ but they · seettit' at least · inore reasonable this week. l still think that CompEd. was. not a total disaster, and I still think it'.d:eserved better support than it was ever· given, but I quite agree (.as l $aid before) that it is now time to move to a new path. l do know one thing, though: as we go on now (forward?} to discuss and shape different patterns of general education, neither Oati nor l can expect that they will be exactly what we could wish for. Both of us (and I wouldn't assume that we will be on different sides} can hope that the compromises of our ideals will not be too painful, that the consensus will create something not too far removed from our notions of sweet reason. If it is, or lf things are too \watered down,\ both of us should object. But neither of us is likely to be entirely pleased. 'if l'm \optimistic\ (a term that for both Gati and Gada see.fils. to be a dirty word), it\ not because I expect perfect soluti<>ns, but only that I can hope not to be too grumpy about the inc11Hahl) .lcss-than-pcrlccL Alter Arc becon and conse stude1 there part c stade1 Ma senou kind · course who Poliq chairr sugge be so course as ne Thim1 much given fa cult Pre sic Wh lJnfor made plans and Impo invoh only! analy1 words shouh that comm the c heads said possit Not such a will be De decisi and durinl prom1 stude1 buildi study. are at cause smce 1 to the The

CONCORDJENSJS, Feb. 2, 1977 Vandals and the Lepers by Christoph-er M. Harding '78 l:arly Monday morning ( 1-31- 77). alter a brisk walk across campus, I made my way to the Pui:J for coffee. Alter a lovely half hour with my coffee and reverie, I felt nature urge me toward the newly redecoratedmen's room, (in the hallway outside the entrance to the Dutch Hollow Pub). When I went to use the sink, I noticed it wasn't thefe. It was, now, a glaring, insulting, appendage of mangled matter. It was then that I noticed the sink was torn from its moorings. I noticed that gone also were the towel dispenser, inner door partition, and toilet seat. After my ascent to the mail room level of Carnegie, I noticed that the phone (center), and one candy machine were suffering the weekend pangs of existence as a service object at U !ilion College. The phone was left, by some good Samaritan, in the earthen top of the wall next to its original position (on the wall). It had been destroyed by a 1disgruntled juvenile, a member of our .. Studentry,\ a reflector of us and our tolerance of trash-like activities. Wasteful. .. What the hell did all this'!!\ The querie gained attention over morning coffee with the custodial .. ~~- ::;;.--. ' . . - .. ·:;.: everything shlike8 down. I hope that Gad will be able to join me in that. ·Sincerely. · Abut Nelson Depattm~Jit •-r ·English .. - . ~-~~,--_::- ..:~.. ':·- . ; . and maintenance staff, but no tenable answer was posited. \We'll ask arot:md, someone is alw.ays watching,\ was the war cry, .. One of their peers will right these wrongs!\ went the hope. It is unlikely that students who tolerate stolen materials from the library (or elsewhere oli. campus), on the bookshelves in their \friend's\ room, are apt to be offended by mere vandalism. No, rape is the main concern in a Studentry with Graduate Admissions and Undergraduate studies to contend with. After all, we are here at Union to learn and grow, not admonish fellow students for defacing our facilities and blemishing our name, that is what we have a God for - justice. I wondered, then, if such Students wanted to be found out - caught. Maybe they just couldn't \cut the mustard\ at a decent, respectable institution, and they secretly wished to be expeHed for vandalism rather than for academic failure, the en<l in sight. Well, at least I wil'l have graduated UN ION before the soi1 is permanently imbedded into the crimson and white; before every ·r··--··a·s · x•·.;[·· A_'E.:- .. ;::T·· .. ·•j: \ .. \;[_ . {. :, .. (.•' _·'.·· ~: :-: ' . . ' . ·' ' . :· ; ~: ' .. . . . . ·; . :: ·_ .. - ' -~ ,. ·. -. < ' . .. ·__ . . : ,. - . ' : ' . -._ ·_. . -· -·. :- _; -· The 5.econd cQrrectil:m is actually - ·a clarification~ sororities will not . be given a bo'Me ~n campus. if ·either of the' · iw6 gr(lups of women ittterested: ln :$or6rities •be¢oo1e recognized. prior· to this year's · -· UNION student is thought to be (potentially) a vandal and fool .. I would stay and fight, but apathy among fellows is a very cancerous problem (indeed it is stronger than one halting limb), I would be afraid to censor a vandal in the act (I might be infected with the froth about his yellowed, bared, teeth). l will use mace to quiet the savage. Then I will bind .him, and store him for the stocks, in the town square (by this time we'll all need a laugh!). Fellow Students. esteemed Faculty, ind ustrioHs s,talf, efficient administration, and all interested and concerned others, hear me speak· my eyeless prophesy: Soon will arrive the era of the vandal, who. when not chastised, will invite onto campus his closest aHies, for defensive support. These allies of the vandal be the Lepers. The Leper's act is quite simple (and unable to be detected before its result is effected). The Leper attacks during the baking and making hours, while the vandal wreaks inexorable holocaust for diversion. When everyone rushes to the fire, the leper sticks his finger in our oatmeal. -~ '.: .... · t.o &e Edit()tst l lim'a'juhiO't here at Union. , This fact i$, Qnly significant in lottery, · pro:visiorn; can be de.-rtuientaJ, W8f't ·mad~ to $lCUf€l block housing ,, for them. ·· the -c4ntext that in the two and one half yea.rs l have attended · the colle,ge, l have never been compelled to voice my opinion in the \Conco or any other medium representing students' views. 1 suppose that prior to my writing this letter I have always evaluated Union as a total entity, never reaUy assessing the d:istinct parts that comprise the whole. Overall~ I am. proud to- be a member of the Union College community and I am generally supportiv:e of its policies. 1 would !ike to see an end to Prof.- Oado's barbed oomments .. directed to Prof. NelKoll that have been popping up in;Y,QU:r recent issues. l feel that Prpu. Nelson and _ Qati have sajd enough, and it was don-e with decency •. Pro(. Gado•s siiHe'-inent, · 1 · feel. wa.s thoroughly uncaUed--•fnr; Any upper class English major like my'&elf :. .knows.· bow disorganiz~d and tumultuous things have ijeen in. tbe Englis~. ·. departm¢nt •. \ 3nd, as.. -an ex,.. rnemoer of the department once said, \There are a Iot of old battles stiU being fought.\ Prof. Gado. I ·believe, didn't adequately covet tbe comp ed. issue as he snu_gbt .to do with his fine use. of ~Gopher Prairie\isms and coy alliterations. I think that letter signifies that: old battles are stilt being fought by some of the senior English department members. lt was a thoroughly infantile diatrJ.be. Such battles have had real casualties in the past; four junior faculty were fired last year, and many students have become alienated. It's time to. stop the battle and tu work on bettering the department. Natne Withhelq Upon ;Request elarifieation To the Editors: I would like to commend Concordicnsis for their continued etforts to keep the Union College community informed. At thc.satne time I would like to correct two errors in \Dowling Deline~tcs Policy'' by Ken Stone in the January 19 i~sue of C oncordiensis. First, dormitory prices wHI not go up during the academic 71-78. While I'm on the .subject, rd like to reply to Ms. Vladimir's letter regarding sororities in the January 26 issue of Concord'y. i ·was extremely· disappointed with the defeatist attitude Ms. Vladimir assumed, especially if she is speaking as a representative of sororities. As a member of the \administration:· sb:e fe!fers to, I am not awa~9fany ••tnten~e. opppsition\ directe.d against th¢ wotnen wurking to ·fo-rm sororities. Ms. V'iaditnir is wrong when she claims that \the college is not wHiing to have faith\ in sororities. The truth is that many administrators have already expressed th~ir faith in and support of sororities on campus. Our faith is misdirected if all women students believe as Ms. Vladimir doe-s that fraternities \have control of many women's social lives here.\ I would advise Ms. Vladimir to introduce herself to those members of the administration she addressed when she asks \what is the college asking us to prove?\ I think I can speak for all involved administrators when I s~y thnt we are ope.n and willing to discuss any and all possihllitks for sororities for the future. not ns Sincerely, Suzanne Dowling Director of Housing To the Editors: We wish to explain that tt\ost of the opinions expressed by Amy Vladimir in the January 26 issue of Concordiensis \Letters to the Editors\ do not express the views of our group. Sincerely. Judee Rosenberg Liz Yager Recently, however,, I have become actltel'y aware of an aspect of my ·· m(lmbership of which I am 11ot proud; in fact, I am fti~bly · ashamed and ·disappointed. It is · my perception that · inexcusable and unwarranted discrim.ination is being practiced by some students on a srnaU, but important segment of other Uniou students. The recipients are members of our college hockey team. I am deeply concerned and pained by the malicious ridiculing that · seems to pervade conversations of which the hockey team is the ptimary subject. We areal! so quick to criticize and chide;. yet, every hockey game is overflowing with Union students who want to take advantage of the ··show\ our hockey team puts on. Well. they work hard to put on that show and they usually put on a damn good one. They are an excellent team that is aiming for the top. But l don't believe they 'can reach the top Without the support of their lellow students. And I can ptomise you that we certainly will not even have mediocre hockey ga1nes to attend if they cease to support Union Col1ege and take their skills elsewhere. l, for one would be extremely sorry to see hockey go .. It seems to me that the discrimination running Continued on Vage 9 Pag:·; FROM THE PRESIDENT'S DESK The College and the Community When Dixon Ryan Fox, president of Union from 1934 to 1945, wrote his \Unfinished History\ of the Coilege, he noted that the campus is marked off from the surrounding city by two miles of high iron fences. Within those fences, the College can and does have its own life to whatever degree it wants. But, he added, the fact that members of the College community may at any time step through one of the College's five main gates into a modern industrial city makes their days richer. ..The opportunity occasionally to participate in the city's life... broadens both student and faculty experience,\ wrote President Fox. I think of his remarks whenever anyone from the College asks me why we should be concerned about Schenectady and what happens to it. To me, the attitude behind that question shows a lack of understanding of the special relationship between Union and Schenectady. This community and this College have grown together and, frankly, the fortunes of those of us on the campus are tied more closely to the fortunes of the city and its future than many of us realize . For example, what happens to downtown Schenectady will influence the quality of our future faculty, staff and students. If downtown dies, there will be serious ramifications on the College and its attractiveness. No matter how well we may be doing on the campus, a potential faculty member or staff person or student may decide to go elsewhere if lJ nion sits in the middle of a slum. That is one reason I think those of us on campus should play a more active and aggressive role in this community; it is t'he reason I agreed to serve on the committee that will screen the more than 100 applications for a new city manager. The number of students involved in Big Brother and, Big Sister programs is encouraging to me. Those students are enriching Schenectady and this College. This community, and I talk now of the three-quarters of a million people in the entire metropolitan community, offers us an opportunity that is lacking in the other colleges to which we often compare ourself. That large urban population offers us an educational laboratory for many of our departments, provides a whole range of social service opportunities for community involvement, and is an enormous source of students for our continuing education program. It is an opportunity that a Middlebury, or an Amherst, or a Williams just don't have. Union is more than just a college in a city. Union is a college of the city. As we enter times that are increasing!_\ difficult lor both cities and colleges, it would be wise on our part to make sure that the I X2-year-old bond between this College and this city is strengthened even more than it has been. union col. 1J _. concorOtens1s Edi!o\-tn-chret .. Jl;ew, edrtor .. f-eature' editor' Culture eduor- Spnrt' cdrtor' Copy cdHor .... Bu~me~~ manager~ C!a,~rfled' edHor ..... Sub,errptrom ednor ... Layout edllor' Phntllgraph] edrtm' . Photo Stall .. ho\H<: l;n, mrke rt>tundr . ... matt brr<:t mrrrdm J.n rd .• tndrea ,ert lima 11 .tcrn llomcnhatt Ja Tlll} '\'J rult>w t'l. Jebhrc pule! It • .... todd nulkr bar hdr a 'tern. rn,Hla lu\, h;urr' hdlp<:TI rn.utha rubcn,tcu·. harm hal pert Jt><: t:dppucrn. n&nt:} mur ph] . 'tn ,. ~~II I. J<Hl lle-t:hu h.Hr} Jrhern.lldu,Jdl lt>tman car} leucrrnan, Jue tauhcr Art edrtnr Je,ter 11 er,, Poetr) cdrtor . dcl.umc 'tdgt:rndn Stall thr> '\ue k.rth} ~!Ctol, braJ kc\kr. lrndd >llaUht:. Jill\ r-·rltn. Calendar Jc,Jre old.tdch. llann} lnrber. murr) k\l>t>ll, ~mt1} 1r.t ~·'•>dm, 111 . rand) ln)er,, Jdl lorm,m. matt luh.rrt. pattr mnr.rn. dt•nr'e \\.Jdltcnhcrm. c\ nthra .tl,!lh>n, Lucn ft-, 'eth t<\l)n. p.llll t:a,ttdtJt•>. pelt: df<>il'<'il .. . .......... . rrch hernrk.:r CON('ORDIE!IISIS is published e~er) \\ edne,da~ h) the •tudent body of l 1 nion College, Old G)m Hall, ~chenectad), 'ew \ urk; to which Postal Forms 3579 are directed. Publicatiom Office: I ht• Jewish World Publications, 416 Smith St., Schenectad), :>.. '1. I Bll5 (370-5483). Entered in the Schenectad) PoM Office as Second ( Ia~~ Matter. Subscription Rate 3S cents per cop). $10. n }ear delivered anywhere in the l'nited States.

. ·!\· . .. } ,. \\-... • .. ~ ~ -...... ~.l t. . . ~· ,. • . • CONCORDIENSIS, Feb. 2; 1977 . V an~als and the Lepers by Omslopher ~. Hardmg '78 - Early Monday 'morning (1:31 ~ ~JJd maintenance staff, but no UNION student is thought to be 77). alter a brisk walk across tenable answer was posited. (potentially) a vandal and fQol. I campus, l made my way to the \We'll ask around, someone is would stay and fight, but apathy Pub for coU(;e, After a lovely half ~,hvays watching,\ was the war am()n1?;fellows is a very cancerous hour With my coffee and reverie, l ·cry, \One of their peers will right p~oblem. {indeed it is stronger ldt .nature utg~ me· toward the these wrongs!\ went the hope. lt thari one halting limb). I would be newly redecoratedmen's room. (.in is unlikely that students who afraid to censor a vandal in the the haiiWf!Y, O\ltside- the entrance tolerate stolen materials from the act (:I might be infected with the to the Dut6h'.Hollow Pub). When library (or elsewhere on campus), froth- about his y-ellowed, bared, I went to use the sink, I noticed it on the bookshelves· in their teeth). l wiH use mace to quiet the wasn't there. It was, now, · a. -.. t:riend~s\ room, are apt to be savage. Then I wiU bind .him, and glaring, . insulting, appendage- of offended by mere vandalism. No, store him for the stocks, in the mangled matter. lt w~s then that ,J rape is the main concern in a town square (by this time we'll all noticed the sink was torn frem its Studentry with Graduate need a laugh!). moorings. I noticed tMt gone also Admissio.tis and Undergraduate Fellow Students, esteemed were the towel dispenser, inner studies to contend wit'h. After all, Faculty~ i.nd ustrious staff, door partition, and toilet seat. we are ·here at -Union to Iear.n and efficient administration, and all After, my ascent to the mail grow, not admonish fellow interested and concerned others, room level of Carnegie, I noticed students for defacing our facilities hear me speak· my eyeless that the phone (center), and one and blemishing our name, that is prophesy: Soon will arrive the era candy machine were suffering the what we have a God for ~ of the vandal, who, when not weekend pangs of existence as a justice. chastised, will invite onto campus service object at Union College. I wondered, then, if such his closest allies, for defensive The phone was left, by some good Students wanted to be found out support. These allies of the vandal Samaritan, in the earthen top of caught. Maybe they just be the Lepers. The Leper's act is the Wall next to its original couldn't \cut the mustard'' at a quite simple (and unable to be position (on the wall) .. It had been deeent, respectable institution, detected befor.e its result is destroyed by a •disgruntled and they secretly wished to be effected'). The Leper attacks juvenile, a . member of our expelled for vandalism rather during the baking and making ''Studentry,\ a reflector of us and than for academic failure, the end hours, while the vandal wreaks our tolerance of trash-like in sight. inexorable holocaust for activities. Wasteful, Well, at least I will have diversion. When everyone rushes \What the hell did a·ll this'!!\ graduated UNION before the soil to the fire, the leper sticks his The querie gained attention over is permanently imbedded ipto the finger in our oatmeal morning coffee with the custodial crimson and white; before every • :: .... = . : .. ·.---··:r:·._··:··O:,<:~' ·'·· .... ··•·· . N~itil~ · WHhheld: t1pon -}!~n,t~St: ·~. ' -;. . . •. •\• _ Pagr·T FROM THE PRESI-DENT'S DESK The C-ollege and the Community When Dixon Ryan Fox, president of Union from 1934 to 1945, wrote his \Unfinished History\ of the College, he noted that the campus is marked off from the surrounding city by two miles of high iron fences. Within those fences, the College can and does have its own life to whatever degree it wants. But, he added, the fact that members of the College community may at any time step through one of the College's five main gates into a modern industrial city makes their days richer. \The opportunity occasionally to participate in the city's life ... broadens both student and faculty experience,\ wrote President Fox. I think of his remarks whenever anyone from the College asks me why we should be concerned about Schenectady and what happens to it. To ine, the attitude behind that question shows a lack of understanding of the special relationship between Union and Schenectady. This community and this College have grown together and, frankly, the fortunes of those of us on the campus are tied more closely to the fortunes of the city and its future than many of us realize. For example, what happens to downtown Schenectady will influence the quality of our future faculty, staff and students. If downtown dies, there will be serious ramifications on the College and its attractiveness. No matter how well we may be doing on the campus, a potential faculty member or staff person or student may decide to go elsewhere if Union sits in the middle of a slum. That is one reason I think those of us on campus should play a more active and aggressive role in this community; it is t'he reason I agreed to serve on the committee that will screen the more than 100 applications for a new city manager. The number of students involved in Big Brother anct Big Sister programs is encouraging to me. Those students are enriching Schenectady and this College. This community, and I talk now of the three-q uartcrs of a million people in the ,entire metropolitan community, offers us an opportunity that is lacking in the other colleges to which we often compare ourself. That large urban population offers us an educational laboratory for many of our departments, provides ,a whole range of social service opportunities for community involvement, and is an enormous source of students for our continuing education program. It is an opportunity that a Middlebury, or an Amherst, or a Williams just don't have. Union is more than just a college in a city. Union is a college of the city. As we enter times that are increasingly difficult for_ both cities and colleges. it would be wise on our part to make sure that the U~2-ycar-old bond between this College and this city is strengthened even more than tt has been. union coll4rgc • :1 concorotensts Editors-in-cl:tief.. ................................................ ho~1e lax. m1ke rotond1 News editor ........................................ ,,.,.,, .............................. malt briet Features editor; .................................... mmam da~1d. andrea cerulman Culture editors ____ ......... . .................... tern nomcnhaft Sports editors.. dann} \\Jrulo\\er, debbtc pulcttu Copy editor ... __ .... ..... . .. .. todd miller Business managers barbara ;tern. marla lux, harn> halperr Classifiedseditor ................ , martha rubemtem Subscnpuons edttor .................................... --- ......... harrishalpen Layout editors ........................................ Joe cappuc10. nancy murph} Photography editor~ ................... ------------------------->te'~ gnii.Jon tle!>cher Photo Stafl .............................................. ban) dibeinardo,Jelt lorman cary feuerman, joe tauber Art editor.. ......................................................................... ,.le,ter wei;; Poetry editor. .. .. delannc \'~gcman Staff thi• i>:.ue ... kath} greco. brad lc\kr. lmda >lraube, am} pcrhn. ann markov.·itl,li>a baron, alese rub1nrllll fe,he nklad,•k franny Iorber. murry levi>on. cmdy Ira goodman. randy myer~. jeff forman, matt lubart, patll moran, den~>e wacl:ttehheun, cynthia aranon. karen Icc seth ro>lyn, paul <;a\Hataro pete arom\n Calendar ................. ., ..... ,, . .,,.,, ----- ....... , ................... , .......... nch bermker CONCORDIENSIS is published every V.edne~da) b) the Mudent body of Union· Coilege, Old Gym Hall, Scheme tad). ~en \ ork; to which Postal Forms 3S79 are directed. Publications Office: Tl:te Jewish World Publications, 416 Smith St., Schenectad), ~.\. 12305 (370·5483). Entered in the Schenectady Post Office as Second ('lass Matler. Subscription Rate 35 cents per copy, $10. a year delivered anywhere in the United States.

Page8 Bll I ffiN IIN5 On Tuesday, February 8, at 7:30 the groups that participated in Union terms at Florence will have a reunion picnic. Mr. Freund will furnish cheese and crackers; you should bring vino, beer, aqua minerale or whatever you like. If you have slides or picutres, please let us see them. Students who plan to go to Florence are cordially invited. Seniors - Place your orders now for graduation announcements in the Student Activities Office For Sale - Sweaters for sale-women's naine brand sweaters, all sizes, styles and colors. Great bargains! Call Julie 370-650!) or stop by Fox 313. Apartments - Looking for an apartment an!l apartment mates (female)for the Spring tenn through the summer. Anyone who knows of a vacant apartment or is looking for apartment mate ... PLEASE contact Louisa in 214 West or call 370-6143 Brid&e Lovers - There is a meeting this next Tues., Feb. 8, in Hale House Upper Lounge at 8 pm. Try to bring a partner, or we'll try and give you one. Faculty are especially encouraged to come and pit wits against the students. Mini-Course Introduction to the Bible: This course will have some of the basic questions regarding types of biblical literature, trends in biblical interpretation, and suggestions for pursuing further reading and study of the Bible. WHEN? February 3, 10, and 17, 7;30-9:00 p.m., WHERE? Sister Pat's Residence, 816 Union Street, WHO? Anyone interested in the Bible Ride ·Needed: To Boston or anywhere east on Friday, Feb. 4 please call: Mike Stockman or Jim Spanfeller, 346-9829 Lost or Stolen: A black MacGreggor baseball glove. It was last seen at the Memorial Gym Men's locker room. Reward of $10 for its return, no questions asked. Please contact or return it to John Stevenson, Box 2293, Fox House 260, 370- 6586 Come one, Come all to Student-Faculty Bridge Club meeting this Tues. nite, Feb. 8, in Hale House upper lounge. Bring a partner .if possible. lnd floor Potter: Good-bye and good riddance ... Glen Georae Be111011: AM, CTI, WB. Who else? Marimne: When will I ever meet you? MSM: I'll be missing you only for another ~ days (at least until I see. you again) -love, H Ramel: proboscis sex? Rill: I knew you would sleeze out on your thesis, but all is forgiven, and you can come home. Dad SLS: The answer is in the Genetics lab. SLS: showers are soon to be To m7 brown eyed prJ: \I love you.M SED: \You're still the one.\ . . ~tum: Thanks for. the dyniunite job epgil:t~ring Trivia. We~re all. indi:bted. Dan, BID, and tile rest of the 'Trivia' uew. Moteph: But I'm not dead!! ROiellkn.ntz PPR: The fleet has gone to sea but the reserves are still at hand. Harris: We still don't miss seeing you. RG&MG Bolt: You mean THAT red-head? Ed, Andy, and \Doe\: What you need is results not all that talk and prayer. the wad To whomever is oflerina Sl,OOO,OOO for tbe tbesll: Double the ante and it's yours. Contact Box 844, Campus. Small, unmarked bills, please. I, Kina James I, have chosen the Duke of Delmar, the Duke of Lenox, The Lord of Long Island, and the Prince of Porn. Any other applications, write Box 190. Harril: Wouldn't you love to know who was responsible for your exile? You might be surprised ... Since I was forced out of my closet I will tell !Ill. Andy, Ma.t, Joe, Dave and the rest of the Thursday night dead cast led me on my path to ·Homosexualism. 'Boy, are they good teachers! ML Judee: Thanks for a gre~t weekend. One of my best here. And thanks to the Rosenbergs for having such good taste. Eleanor: You don't have to worry, Renee is being a good girl! Sur. I'm closer to broke! Jim CONCORDIENSIS, Feb. 2,. 1977 classifiebs Pinch: Take your bongo's away from Pete... PLEASE!! The Fourth Floor Anacin Gana John - remember that personal I promised you? Well, here it is. And note, this is not a Dear John personal. i>KC David - if you don't come through within 3 weeks, we're going to give you back to the gypsies and adopt Mitch. Jove, Mom& Dad Due to budgetary limitations my top price for a completed thesis remains at $1,000,000 McP .... New we see the violence inherent in the system! A Webster Blew Notes - Hang it up, guys. Love, lhe Martian Space Party •Papoon for President! He's NOT INSANE! MSP Barry - After the rain the sun comes out. Things will get better. Smile. Barb Kathy: Let's go to Fatso's. You going early or shall we be late again? :South's 407th deviate corps. Rog & Adam: WHAT my WHAT? Your Dietionary Anyone know where my coffee mug is? Hank Dear So-caUed, self-declared 'King of the Campus', James the 1: I sincerely hope your lovely \Queen of the Campus\ comes along and gives you a big kiss; turning you into a frog (because your croaking is making me sick). Then I could use you in Bio Lab. Also, you'd do much better in Trivia, if you didn't have such a trivial mind! Plebely yours, Ya Mutha's Fatha~s Doctor twice removed. PS If you haven't guessed, I disagree with you!! Earth to Ritz, Earth to Ritz... Come in Ritz ... Crash Larry: This time it's right. HAPPY BIRTHDAY!!!! Barlt Dear Matt - l confess. I wrote the Gilmore letter in the last issue. 1 don't know why they witheld my name. Love, Ralph Gumbo, NoH Wittless Sports Network, still waiting at the Greyhound Station, Somewhere in Utah. Gyn1er, Linda and Lisa: Remember me? The door is always open. Come and visit. Barb To aU my friends at Union: Thanks for malting me feel wanted and at home. MSM Cam: How can you settle for the comparative when you have had intercourse (be it symbolic, verbal, or whatever) with the superlative? H Spedal thanks to the inmates of the Hotei.MSM 1\L: More than ever before. I love you. MSM Cath: I'm glad everything worked out. H Harris: There is only one \H\ on this campus .•. and you are not be. H LM: Your gender is wrong. I'm a girl, REMEMBER!! BJG Fruf: We can work things out il we do what we want and not what we think we should. In tbe long run we can't control what happens, we must just put our faith in each .other. YBL: I still haven't heard from you about Feb. 12th. MRM Larry Fein: I heard that the tax committee lost $30;000. HH: We need ads for the Freshman Record.MM To The Campus: LARRY FEIN was last seen talking to a realtor in U tab. To all horny people: I hope you have been satisfied by the rash of X films. Harry Reams To The Campus: LARRY FEIN has unoficially dropped out of school and is living and skiing at Snowbird, Utah. Adie: Voici pour vous. Je comprends assez bien, mais je ne parle pas. Jacques S & J: Best of everything. Mose Hbey: No, I don't mind working late for you; I never knew overtime could bring so maey personal ·benefits. Always re!ldy when. you are. Ginny Deu Face: I Love You. Your Mother Mo: Someday we'll look back on this and it'll all seem funny. Bruce Sprinpteen Skwitz: We accept \Kierkegaard\ offer ... but you were wrong about the people on our floor~ we've killed 'em nil; there's no one left. X A WK Slllie: Can I borrow your Crust? Does it prevent cavities? Love, Mn. Marra & Ms. Alexander Steve: This is a blackmail note so that you will know if you do not follow my demands, I will show Rich mY birthday present from you. Whippet Kid Steve: You were just marvelous thai night! The bill is up to $65.83. Xaviera Boyle: Loosen up or else! 151 D: You're all great, but it was too much at once. The ltalilln Cooks Rotond: You--! Your Lovers Later: Who cut your hair? Your mother should see you now. Oy! Lester: Do you know who's writing all those dirty notes about you? It's the skwitz - he lives at Webster, No. 6793. Slcwitz, Goodiucld rn let you for practice tomorrow Airhead Ris: Do Japanese beetles play Chinese Checkers? Laps Kath: Does it ever get better? Ducky: Happy Birthday - I tniss your boots! Lori: Miss you and Happy Birthday! Shalom,. Audrey H. Just remember your birthday is on April Fools. me. Cam - You suck H. \'ou must be high Mark D~ -How does it feel to have a hangover on the Appalachian Trail at 5 am in snowshoes? M.R. Hasn't anyone seen Harris Halpert in the past 5 weeks? l know he's lost somewhere on campus. if you find him please help him, he needs it. - hi~ mother Rich, we are still looking for those free peailutst TGIF Club Mllte and Ed - Will you ever forgive me? ED, you can even use my phone if Mike lets you. I SIIW a little boy throwing stones yesterday, and it tnade me cry, because I was afraid that it might be you ... Signed, Your mailbox. Debbie- Life is confusing and hits us hard at the wrong times but with experience comes maturity - Michael Jimmy Michael Lippman: Why is tbe vaseline jar half-empty? Friend Alan Rutkin - Why is your skin so white? - Albino Frilllld Dear Mr. II. Mrs. Wnlla - We feel our friendship is essent~; in fact, we couldn't stand up in this world if it wasn't for you. However if you drop us for your other neighbors, the floors, there will be no room for reconciliation - the Ceilinp StH, I'm closer to broke! - Jim Adie - Voici pour vous. Je comprends assez bien, mais je ne .parle pas. Jacques Judee: Thanks for a great weekend. One of my best here. And thanks to the Rosebergs for having such good taste. Eleanor: You don't have to worry, Renee is being a &ood girl! Maresy: The best at what?l4lnd Street Cluis, Vir& and the others to whiCh . thil pertains: Did you· know that the L.L. in L.L. Bean stands for low life, which characterizes the people ·Who wear those molde(i pieces of s-t you call boots. Yo1,1 would think people with such good taste in friends would have some class when it. comes to attiring themselves. L.L. Bean should be shot or at least hung by his boot laces. Adie: What you wrote last week was really beautiful. It reminded me of a Nan I know and other close, but distant friends. Thanks. Rhonda Kin& James: You haven't got. a prayer in the world. I declared myself God of the campus long before you even reached the position of Court Jester, which seems to be the highest rank you~re going to achieve since you must have a. fair sense of humor to think the likes of you could declare yourself king when I deem it necessary and not before. Anyone interested in applying, yes even you Jester• may send resumes to box 163. Moze Huey: No, I don!t mind working late for you. I never knew overtime could bring so many personal benefits. Always ready when yott are. Ginny S k J: Best of everything. Mo.ze RS: 2's fun; 4;s a lot of fun. AS: I thought upper classmen didn't have 5 man suites? RL: Happy i9 and there are no obnoxious notes cause you beat the hell outofme. ML Andy: Here's another note for you. A Sharp Kathy: Seen any cherry pies lately? Wllil - Happy 20th - \the &iriS\ Sue K. - Happy b'day ~ Jules, M•rla, .A1111Jrea, and Barbara Paul &lid Laurie: don't worry, every~hing will be fine Donna G. ~ What a week, an $8 gown ancl a, Mohawk (once again j11\t .kidding) Wend:y and Gordie HaP.PY II months!!!! Thanks for the invitation - D &D san. - Thanks for the car, it is much appreciated. FGx 151 has beaten all odds, it is immaculate. Secret Admiress Bill - We all hope you are feeling better soon. _,_ Your Ooor JOII, Alan, Mllte, Debbie ~ You're all really super 151 Fox, 101 \Yeat Happy Birthday Susan Krohnish ALL YOUR FRIENDS Cilri;Rodents are violent, Violence is rude, If you don't watch it, we're gonna be Jude! G11ess who M•ry ~Break ta:bles much? . Kilthy - Did you ever hear about the little liid ... hmmm surely. Marth, you CAN'T nurd THIS weekend!!)! Tlllllk - Fogarty's i.s a great place to be on Saturday nights. Maybe ~ou could try it out sDmetime. Hi Pete, hope you're feeiing better From the llrls you. never sit with TO. ·Pinch, Dan, Peter, Hank, Grea:g,\ Cllrissie, Laney, Kathy & Joarue - Cozy mucH? Note: PJ is nice SonJa: lt was great seeing \Peter\ Thanks for telling. me. Guess who Rid: A personal personal for evey one on the campus to read: speghetti' AGAIN? Wily iS Patti called Gumbi? Tile early bird gets her worm. No, .ASD definitely does not want to be called chipmunk. Aoy :W. go tuck your sox into. your unde(wear. Security! What was that about communtsts, hippies and radicals on . second floor W est'l Patt)'. - l dream about you every night, and long for the day when out two paths cross- your secret admirer. M.P. - How is the porcelain fetish going?- TJI. Glenn.~ Watch out for my revenge Matt N. - My neighbor says we're crazy. Mat, look at it this way ... If you went to Hawaii, you'd have to do your laundry every day till Spring term which would cost as much as going to Florida... Got it ugly'/ Andy Matt - Your taste in music .matches y(}Ul\ face. .All Ri&bt Chic - Star B-itall player!!! Maresy: You're the weirdest but the best. Rolf: Lorie told me to say hi to you from allof them in Vermont. Patti RICh D: You make the column again tllanlcs to your friend Sherman Plunkeu No.79. · Drew: Made any lemonade lately? Peter, anyone who male~ dauss cry is n()thtng but a eras$ deviate. MOK~ K«»J[o -Ever heard the song bad luck? D- Will you still love me when rm. 64? HIUIIt -Your mother wears army boots in the sb()wer and your father ... Cbkb - I bet you could figure out what to do with the last 7 •.. mmm... Surely ifl don't find the button soon .•. RCHIID Jf3, don't Yoll wish I'd pennied you in with HIM? Sloeeper and Deunls: Sorry I forgot you. (ltatber dumb of me, I m11st admit) - Mac: Toronto, llere we come! PIUII -I almost believe you- Miriam H«»\flie IUid Dan; Have you had a good ~pit lately? BIIIDlorn: best wishes with love. Vrea Affair wanted. Only ol<ler men need apply. Contact 16~ Golden Hair: I wish you had the lungs to match. . Dear Janis: Know any Mexican songs? B11111nu to you, Kevin - V Attentkln Chi Psi: No bananas for Kevin bmt double for Steve. RV Martha: that was a fantastic drink! Wanted: Boogers to flick. Contact Co~ch illlmediately CDS - When are you going to learn how to read (music)? Ho1ey - face .it, you're an alcholic. Have a·beer, or two, or three ..• Dear Alice: You!te a. good RA but do you k11ow someone has been infesting our halls with signs? Ill! Je le fait comme le francais! Kostas: he~s here? Sam~Ael: Tuber~ulosis my foot. You know wbat. you get fooling· around•with the old· Jerseycanal .. Eric: I'll give you half for ten bucks cause 1 to<lk out the bag. Hoaey: You've made our lives exciting again - the chaa t•m . . T11 ·Ill the pys in front of a urinal arid Debby - the future of America lies in yDur.hand. Lori: Happy Birthday Day · Dear. Jimrily, Riehle, Michael; Alan, . Jom!le, lind Anne - Let's all learn to love ome an()ther. Notice that personals can i;)e nice! Dar. Jimmy, Riehle, Alan, Mike, Jolinie. aiMI Aline - College makes strange bed fellows. Dear Paul: thanks for the help with the music. Deb Laura: Ready, O~K. LOST: one pocket-sized Italian in a snowdrift somewhere near or around Buffalo. Distinguishing features: a perfectly !ityled· coiffure; likes to dres~ up like Red Riding Hood. If found, mail to Hawaii. Whoo~;h! The next man tc say Mblow me\ gets blqivl), The omniscient Geek will not t91erate idle obsfucators, etc. Mike ~ \Le Sade\ and Howie \JJeat me harder\ ~ don't chain me down and I promise to write legibly - ak Wanted: Person willing to take remainder of my courses this year. Will pay (but not too much - the courses stink)· ~ Contact .Box 197 or Sunnyview Rest Home Beta Blows! A.L.P .: ~A teddy to bed, a teddy to me, makes a man healthY,, wealthy, and less of a snorer!\- Fondly, pess who. Wen: BOO$- Who esle but ... L How about leamin& a foreign language? Arabic: lessons will be offered weekly. If interested see Mohammed or phone 370- 6147. Faud: BEWARE! Roses may have thorns. -Mo AUce: You ravishing creature, how aD out discussing a little computer science homework over dinner tonight? - a secret admirer P.S. If you're not (twitch) doing anything (twitch) (twitch) on Sat. nite the 12th (twi!ch). (twitch)(twitch) •.. To anyone thinking of planning a party at the ritz, don't! Dear Anne: you're a great roommate, but not much of a domestic engiilee1·. Deb Dar AI: thanks for being such a good friend. Deb. Diek: Just because you wear silk shirts and associate with ET doesn't ma:ke you a stud -Mike Twldn - Boy do you have a temper! R•zz - next time don't try to .loi:k out all your friends. JDnny -There's notJting we can say to embarass you, because only studs can be burned. M & D Mille Lynn - You're such a c:utie Love Beth . Jim - Just don't say anything because I could embarass you \so badly\ Love Janie Evan ~ You think you're so \slick\ with your mean mac~ne, your ·fancy threads and your \Foxy\ women, but yo~ ain't so cooL~ the bi& C TO!iple-twilter of ~ week: Say five times fua, Sandy and Andy, Sandy and Andy, s..tr and Andy ... Nell H~ When are you going to play basketball? The PopeU's amazint~ NER.PAJ,.ARM Will be appearing· at local department stores everywhere. Please hurry; supplies are limited. Kills nerds instantly; no mess, no bother. A great Pass9ver gift; reasonably priced at only $59.99 Coach: Could I interest you in an amazing NERDALARM for your house'r I'm even willing to run li demonstration. Remember, a happy home is a nerdless home. SIUi - UC will organize a standing room only crowd to watch you drive that V!Ul. Happy Groundhog's · Day to all you peopl~ !!t U.C. · B.R. ~ Yo~ are the best R.A. R&S Is it true that the Dallas Cowboys have asked AD to cheer for tllem??l . You can stop bouncing now girlsm Das-e-dice - Nlke-o-lu All you Lon-guylanders ... there is a C.W. Post game Feb. 12, vs. Union, right down there in Greenvale, LJ. We want 14, WE WANT 14. M.R. - Good. to see you got your form back in 8-ball. NH - Daddy will find out about Chi 'Psi - a hat-trick for you! I like that negative slope girls!! I aappy Anniversacy -:: rhyllis and Steve A'I'TEN1110N, ATTENTION: In jUst five short months. there will be a ,huge aU-day party at a county park in Roebester. All of my friends are cordially invited. Notice is being given of the S\lnday, July 3 date at this time to aUow evetyone to plan now to be in attendance. This promises .to be a fantastic event, even surpassing my last bash where over 500 ,people con~umed 9 half-kegs of beer and SO lbs. of munchies in 3 short bouts. The park. location is ideal. for soft~all, frisbee, etc. If possil>le, a band may be prbviding entertainment. There will be a nominal charge to defray .costs. This will be the last reminder until weB into the spring term. Detail~ and map' w11l be available then. Be ther~. ~urtay, - TH Wo1 vs RP Wit Appoi Mrs. Activi served Alumr Adr Syste11 Admir Speak, Schoo Topic: of Ma and I Hall, · F Pial Comn mem:l comm p.m., Room NoCJ Hugh Profes Zwicl Profes record WMH Buildil Phil Speak~ Univt Philos, Hum a Filn New , Soc. S p.m. SA JV Trinit) Var! Trinit) Ice Buffab Wre 2 p.m. Var~ Norwi1 Tnu Col gat Alur Everyc Soc. S Film New\' 9, II 1 Sl Film New \' 9, II 't SUI' The ( Duke 457-861 The Organi brunch B'shval Kitchel lounge. 01 he op of m, CAl T.GI

Page8 CONCORD!ENS/S, Feb. 2, 1977 •: I •,, • ' .' j ' ' '• ' , \ , • ' \- I - > • • ' • ' • \ ~ ~ • I • > •, ' classifiebs On Tuaday, February 8, at 7:30 the gfoups that participated in lJ nwn terms at Florence will have a reunwn picmc. Mr. Freund will furnish cheese and crackers. you should buing vino, beer, aqua mlnerale or whatever you like. If you have slides or picutres, please let us ~ee them. Students who plan to go to Florence are cordially invited. St>niors - Place your orders now for graduation announcements in the Student Activities Office For Sale - Sweaters for sale-women's name brand sweaters, all sizes, styles and colors. Great bargains! Call Julie 370-6509 or stop by Fox 313. Apartments - Looking for an apartment and apaltment mates (female)for the Spring term through the summer. Anyone who knows of a vacant apartment or is looking for apartment mate ... PLEASE contact Louisa in 214 West or call 370-6143 Brid&e Lovers - There is a meeting th1s next Tues., Feb. 8, in Hale House Upper Lounge at 8 pm. Try to bring a partner, or we'll try and give you one. Faculty are especially encouraged to come and pit wits against the students. Mini-Course Introduction to the Bible: This course will have some of the basic questions regarding types of biblical literature, trends m biblical interpretation, and suggestions for pursuing further reading and study of the B1ble. WHEN? February 3, 10, and 17, 7:30-9:00 p.m., WHERE? Sister Pat's Residence, &16 Union Street, WHO? Anyone interested in the Bible RidG! Needed: To Boston or anywhere east on Friday, Feb. 4 please call: Mike Stockman or Jim Spanfeller. 346-9829 Lost or Stolen: A black MacGreggor baseball glove. It was last seen at the Memorial Gym Men's locker room. Reward of $10 for its return, no questions asked. Please contact or return it to John Stevenson, Box 2293, Foil House 260, 370· 6586 Come one, Come all to Student-Faculty Bridge Club meeting this Tues. nite, Feb. 8, in Hale House upper lounge. Bring a partner if possible. lnd Door Potter: Good-bye and good riddance ... Glen Georae Benson: AM, CTI, WB. Who else? Marianne: When will I ever meet you? MSM: I'll be missing you only for another 8 days (at least until I see you again) -love, H Bamel: proboscis sex? Rill: I knew you would sleeze out on your thesis, but all is forgiven, and you can come home. Dad SLS: The answer is in the Genetics lab. SLS: showers are soon to be To my brown eyed zirl: \I love you.\ SED: \You're still the one.\ Eatum: Thanks for the dynamite job engineering Trivia., We're all indl;'.l>ted. Dan, Bill, and tbe rest of the 'Trivia' crew. Mosepb: But I'm not dead!! Rotenkrantz PPR: The fleet has gone to sea but the reserves are still at hand. Harris: We still don't miss seeing you. RG&MG Bob: You mean THAT red-head? Ed, Andy, and ~uoc\: What you need is results not all that talk and prayer. the wad To wbomever is offering $1,000,000 for tbe thesis: Double the ante and it's yours. Contact BoK 844, Campus. Small, unmarked bills, please. I, Kin1 James I, have chosen the Duke of Delmar, the Duke of Lenox, The Lord of Long Island, and the Prince of Porn. Any other applications, wnte BoK 190. Harris: Wouldn't you love to know who was responsible for your eKile? You might be surprised ... Since I wu foreed out of my closet I w1ll tell alL Andy. Matt, Joe, Dave and the rest of the Thursday mght dead cast led me on my path to Homosexualism. Boy, are they good teachers! ML Judee: Thanh for a great weekend. One of m} be~t here And thanks to the Ro~nberg1 for ha\mg such good taste. Eleanor: \ ou don't have to worry, Renee 1s bem(( a good g1rl' Sue: I'm clo~r tn broke' Jim Pinch: Take your bongo':. away !rom Pete... PLEASE!! The Fourth Floor Anacin Gane John - remember that personal I promised you? Well, here 11 1s. And note, this is not a Dear John personal. PKC David - if you don't come through within 3 weeks, we're going to give you back to the gypsies and adopt Mitch. love, Mom & Dad Due to budgetary limitations my top pr.1ce for a completed thesis remains at $1,000,000 McP New we see the vwlence inherent in the system! A Webster Blew Notes - Hang 1t up, guys. Love, lhe Martian Space Party Papoon for President! He's NOT INSANE! MSP Barry - After the rain the sun comes out. Things will get better. Smile. Barb Kathy: Let's go to Fatso's. You going early or shall we be late again? South's 407th deviate corps. Rog & Adam: WHAT my WHAT: \'our Dictionary Anyone know where my coffee mug I>? Hank Dear So-called, self-declared 'King of the Campus', James the 1: I smcerely hope your lovely \Queen of the Campus' comes along and g1ves you a b1g k1s~; turning you mto a frog 1 because your croaking is making me s1c.k). Then I could use you in B10 Lab. Also, you'd do much better in Trivia, 1f you d1dn't have such a trivial mind! Plebely yours, Ya Mutha's Fatha's Doctor twice removed. PS If you haven't guessed, I disagree with you!! Earth to Ritz, Earth to Ritz ... Come in Ritz ... Crash Larry: This time it's nght. HAPPY BIRTHDAY!!!! Barb Dear Matt - I confess. I wrote the Gilmore letter in the last issue. I don't know why they witheld my name. Love, Ralpb Gumbo, Nott Wittless Sports Network, still waiting at the Greyhound Station, Somewhere in Utah. Gyn&er, Linda and Lisa: Remember me? The door is always open. Come and visit. Barb To fill my friends at Union: Thanks for making me feel wanted and at home. MSM Cam: How can you settle for the comparative when you have had intercourse (be it symbolic, verbal, or whatever) with the superlative? H Special thanks to the inmates of the Hotel.MSM HL: More than ever before. I love you. MSM Catb: I'm glad everything worked out. H Hlll'l'is: There is only one \H\ on this campus ... and you are not lae. H LM: Your gender is wrong. I'm a girl, REMEMBER!! BJG Fruf: We can work things out if we do what we want and not what we think we should. In the long run we can't control what happens, we must just put our faith in each other. YBL: I still haven't heard from you about Feb. 12th. MRM Larry Fein: I heard that the tax committee lost $30,000. HH: We need ads for the Freshman Record. MM To Tbe Campus: LARRY FEIN was last seen talking to a realtor in Utah. To all borny people: I hope you have been satisfied by the rash of X films. Harry Reams To The Campus: LARRY FEIN has unoficially dropped out of school and is living and skiing at Snowbird, Utah. Adie: Voici pour vous. Je comprends assez bien, mais je ne parle pas. Jacques S .t J: Best of everything. Mose Huey: No, I don't mind working late for you; I never knew overtime could bring so many personal benefits. Always ready when you are. Ginny Dear Face: I Love You. Your Mother Mo: Someday we'll look back on this and it'll all seem funny. Bruce Springsteen Skwitz: We accept \Kierkegaard\ offer ... but you were wrong about the people on our floor - we've killed 'em all; there's no one left. X .t WK SOlie: Can I borrow your Crust'' Does 11 prevent cavities? Love, Mrs. Marra & Ms. Alexander Steve: This is a blackmail note so that you will know if you do not follow my demands, I will show Rich my birthday present from you. Whippet Kid Sb~e: You were just marvelous that night! The bill is up to $65.83. Xaviera Boyle: Loosen up or else! 251 D: You're all great, but it was too much at once. The Italian Cooks Rotond: You--! Your Lovers Lester: Who cut your hair? Your mother should see you now. Oy! LI!Ster: Do you know who's writ,ing all those dirty notes about you? It's the skwitz - he lives at Webster, No. 6793. Skwitz, Good luck! I'll 11et you for practice tomorrow - Airbead Ris: Do Japanese beetles play Chinese Checkers? Laps Kath: Does it ever get better? Ducky: Happy Birthday - I miss your boots! Lori: Miss you and Happy Birthday! Shalom, Audrey H. Just remember your birthday is on April Fools. me Cam - You suck H. You must be high Mark D. -How does it feel to have a hangover on the Appalachian Trail at 5 am in snowshoes? M.R. Hasn't anyone seen Harris Halpert in the past 5 weeks? I know he\ lost somewhere on campus. if you find him please help him, he needs it. - his mother Rich, we are still looking for those free peanuts! TGIF Club Mike and Ed - Will you ever forgive me? ED, you can even use my phone if Mike lets you. I SIIW a little boy th~owing stones yesterday, and it made me cry, because I was afraid that it might be you ... Signed, Your mailbox. Debbie- Life is confusing and hits us hard at the wrong times but with experience comes maturity - Michael Jimmy Miehael Lippman: Why is the vaseline jar half-empty? Friend Alan Rutkin - Why is your skin so white? - Albino Friend Dear Mr. & Mrs. Walls - We feel our friendship is essential; in fact, we couldn't stand up in this world if it wasn't for you. However if you drop us for your other neighbors, the floors, there will be no room for reconciliation - the Ceilina:s Sue, I'm closer to broke! - Jim Adie - Voici pour vous. Je comprends ;;ssez bien, maisje ne parle pas. Jacques Judee: Thanks for a great weekend. One of my best here. And thanks to the Rosebergs for having such good taste. Eleanor: You don't have to worry, Renee is being a a:ood girl! Maresy: The best at what?? 42nd Street Chris, Vil'l': and the others to which this pertains: Did you know that the L.L. in L.L. Bean stands for low life, which characterizes the people who wear those molded pieces of s-t you call boots. You would think people with such good taste in friends would have some class when it comes to attiring themselves. L.L. Bean should be shot or at least hung by his boot laces. Adie: What you wrote last week was really beautiful. It reminded me of a Nan I know and other close, but distant friends. Thanks. Rhonda Klnz James: You haven't got a prayer in the world. I declared myself God of the campus long before you even reached the position of Court Jester, which seems to be the highest rank you're going to achieve since you must have a fair sense of humor to think the likes of you could declare yourself king when I deem it necessary and not before. Anyone interested in applying, yes even you Jester, may send resumes to boK 163. Moze Huey: No, I don't mind working late for you. I never knew overtime could bring so many personal benefits. Always ready when yo!! are. Ginny S &; J: Best of everything. Moze RS: 2's fun; 4's a lot of fun. AS: I thought upper classmen didn't have 5 man suites? RL: Happy 19 and there are no obno;~~:ious notes cause you beat the hell out of me. ML Andy: Here's another note for you. A Sharp J(athy: Seen any cherry pies lately? Walt - Happy 20th -\the &iris\ Sut K. - Happy b'day - Jules, Marla, Andrea, and Barbara Paul 11nd Laurie: don't worry, everything will be fine Donna G. - What a week, an $g gown and a Mohawk (once again just kidding) Wendy and Gordie Happy II months!!!! rhanks for the inv1tauon -·· D &D Sara - Thanks for the car, it is much apprectated. Fox 151. has beaten all odds, it 1s Immaculate. Secret Admiress Bill - We all hope you are feeling better soon.- Your floor Jon, Alan, Mike, Debbie - You're all really super.l5l Fox, 201 West Happy Birthday Susan Krohnish ALL YOUR FRIENDS Cari,Rodents are violent, Violence is rude, If you don't watch it, we're gonna be lude! Guess who Mary - Break tables much? Kathy - Did you ever hear about the little kid ... hmmm surely. Marth, you CAN'T nurd THIS weekend'!!!! tbank - Fogarty's is a great place to be on Saturday nights. Maybe you could try it out sometime. Hi Pete, hope you're feeling better From tbe girls you never sit with To Pinch, Dan, Peter, Hank, Gregg,' Chrissie, Laney, Kathy & Joanie - Cozy much? Note: P J is nice Sonia: It was great seeing \Peter\ Thanks for telling me. Guess who Rick: A personal persona'! for evey one on the campus to read: speghetti AGAIN? Why is ?atti called Gumbi? The early bird gets her worm. No, ASD definitely does not want to be called chipmunk. Any W. go tuck your soK into your unde~wear. Security! What was that about commumsts, hippies and radicals on . second floor West? Patty - I dream about you every night, and long for the day when our two paths cross - your secret admirer. M.P. - How is the porcelain fetish going? - T .B. Glenn- Watch out for my revenge Matt N. - My neighbor says we're crazy. Mat, look at it this way ... If you went to Hawaii, you'd have to do your laundry every day till Spring term which would cost as much as going to Florida... Got it ugly? Andy Matt - Your taste in music matches your faq:. AU Rlpt Chic -Star B-ball player!!! M~~RSy: You're the weirdest but the best. Rolf: Lorie told me to say hi to you from all of them in Vermont. Patti Rich D: You make the column again thanks to your friend Sherman Plunkett No. 79. Drew: Made any lemonade lately? Peter, anyone who makes daugs cry is nothing but a crass deviate. MOK? KoKo - Ever heard the song bad luck? D. Will you still love me when I'm 64? Hank -Your mother wears army boots in the shower and your father ... Chich - I bet you could figure out what to do with the last 7... mmm ... Surely if I don't find the button soon ... Room 303, don't you wish I'd pennied you in with HIM? Sleeper and DeDDls: Sorry I forgot you. (Rather dumb of me, I must admit) - Mae Toronto, here we come! Paul - I almost believe you - Miriam HoWie md Dave: Have you had a good spit lately? Bullhorn: best wishes with love. Vrez Affair wanted. Only older men need apply. Contact 163 Golden Hair: I wish you had the lungs to match. Dear Janis: Know any Mexican songs? BlliWIIIS to you, Kevin - V Attention Cbi Psi: No bananas for Kevin but double for Steve. RV Martha: that was a fantastic drink! Wanted: Boogers to flick. Contact Coach immediately CDS - When are you going to learn how to read (music)? Hozey - face it, you're an alcholic. Have a beer, or two, or three ... Dear AUce: You're a good RA but do you know someone has been infesting our halls with signs? Eh! Je le fait comme le francais! Kostas: he's here? Samuel: Tuberculosis my foot. You know what you get fooling around with the old Jersey canal Eric: I'll give you half for ten bucks cause I took out the bag. Hozey: You've made our lives exciting again - tbe chess team To all the zuys in front of a urinal and Debby - the future of America lies in your hand. Lori: Happy Birthday Day Dear Jimmy, Richie, Michael, Alan, Jonnle, and Anne - Let's all learn to love one another. Notice that personals can be nice! Dear Jimmy, Richie, Alan, Mike, Jonnie, and Anne - College makes strange bed fellows. Dear Paul: thanks for the help with the music. Deb Laur11: Ready, O.K. LOST: one pocket-sized Italian in a snowdrift somewhere near or around Buffalo. Distinguish,ing features: a perfectly styled coiffure; likes to dress up like Red Riding Hood. If found, mail to Hawaii. Whoosh! The nellt man to say \blow me\ gets blown. The omniscient Geek will not tolerate idle obsfucators, etc. Mike - \Le Sade\ and Howie \Beat me harder\ - don~t chain me down and I promise to write legibly - ak Wanted: Person willing to take remainder of my courses this year. Will pay tbut not too much - the courses stink) - Contact Box 297 or Sunnyvifw RfSt Home Beta Blows! A.L.P.: \A teddy to bed, a teddy to me, makes a man healthy, wealthy, and less of a snorer!\ --Fondly, :uess who. Wen: BOO$ - Who esle but ... L How about learning a foreign language? Arabic ,lessons will be offered weekly. If interested see Mohammed or phone 370- 6147. Faud: BEWARE! Roses may have thorns. -Mo Alice: You ravishing creature, how aoou1 discussing a little computer science homework over dinner tonight? - a secret admirer P.S. If you're not (twitch) doing anythmg (twitch) (twitch) on Sat. nite the 12th (twitch) (twitch)( twitch) ... To an)·one thinking of planning a party at the ritz, don't! Dear Anne: you're a great roommate, but not much of a domestic engineer. Deb Dear AI: thanks for being such a good friend. Deb. Dick: Just because you wear silk shins and associate with ET doesn't make you a stud - Milte Turldn -Boy do you have a temper! Razz - neKt time don't try to lock out all your friends. Jonny -There's nothing we can say to embarass you, because only studs can be burned. M & D Mike Lynn - You're such a cutie Love Beth Jim - Just don't say anything because I could embarass you \so badly\ Love Janie Evan - You think you're so \slick\ with your mean machine, your fancy threads and your \Foxy\ women, but you ain't so cooL- the bi& C Toape-twistt>r of tbe week: Say five times flllt, Sandy and Andy, Sandy and Andy, Sultlr and Andy ... N• H. When are you going to play basketball? The Popeil's amazing NERDALARM will be appearing at local department stores everywhere. Please hurry; supplies are limited. Kills nerds instantly; no mess, no bother. A great Passover gift; reasonably priced at only $59.99 Coach: Could I interest you in an amazing NERDALARM for your house? I'm even willing to run a demonstration. Remember, a happy home is a nerdless home. SKR - UC will organize a standing room only crowd to watch you drive that van. Happy Gr()undhog's Day to all y()u people at U.C. B.R. -You are the best R.A. R&S Is it true that the Dallas Cowboys have asked AD to cheer for them??? You can stop bouncing now girls!!! Das-e-dice- Nike-o-las All you Lon-guylanders ... there is a C.W. Post garne Feb. 12, vs. Union, right down there in Greenvale, L. I. We want 14, WE WANT 14. M.R. - Good to see you got your form back in 8-ball. NH - Daddy will find out about Chi psi - a hat-trick for you! I like that negative slope girls!!! Happy Anniversary - Phyllis and Steve ATTENTION. ATTENTION: In just five short months, there will be a huge all-day party at a county park in Rochester. All of my friends are cordially invited. Notice is being given of the Sunday, July 3 date at this time to allow everyone to plan now to be in attendance. This promises to be a fantastic event, even su1passing my last bash where o\·er 500 people consumed 9 half-kegs of beer and 50 lbs. of munchies in 3 short hours. The park location is ideal for softball. frisbee, etc. If possible, a band may be providing entertainment. There w1il be a nominal charge to defray co~t~. Th1s will be the last remmder unul v.ell into the spnnB ·term. Deta1b and map; v..111 be ava1lable then. Be tiJcre. :'tfurr•) .. TH Wo1 vs RP Wi1 Appoi Mrs. Activil served Alumr Ad11 Systen Admir Speak1 Schoo Topic: of Ma and F Hall, I F Pla1 Corum memt comm1 p.m., Room Noo Hugh Profes Zwicl Profes record, WMH Buildi1 PhiJ, Speak1 Unive PhilOSI Huma1 Film New 1 Soc. S, p.m. SA' JV Trinity Vars Trinity Ice Buffah Wre1 2 p.m. Vars Norwi1 Trac Colgat, Alu11 Everyo Soc. S Film New Y 9, II I Sl Film NewY 9, II r SUI' The ( Duke 457-86( The Organi brunch B'shvat Kitchei lounge. 01 h<l op of mi CAl Toll

. CONCORDIENS/S, Feb. 2, 1977 ------------~----------------------------~--~- Page9 calenoar THURSD:A Y, FEB. 3 Women's Basketball ..,.. Union vs RP·I; 7 p.m., Fieldhouse. Winter Bloodmobile Appointments can be made at Mrs. Marra's office,. Student Activities. Refreshments Will be served to donors. ll a,rn.-5 p.m. Alumni Gym. Administrative & Engineering Systems Colloquim - Institute of Administration and Management. Speaker: Dr. Lyle Schoenfeldt, School of Management, R Pl. Topic: \The Early Identification of Management Talent; Progress and :Prospects.\ 4 p.m., Bailey Hall, Rm. 207. FRIDAY, FEB. 4 Planning and Priorities Committee Meeting All members of the Union community are invited. t2: 1.5 p .. rn., Library, Phi Beta Kappa Room. Noonday Musicale - with Hugh Allen Wilson,. harpsichord, Professor of Music; William Zwicker, recorder, Math Professor; and Steve Ovitsky, recorder, Program Mgr. for WM HT -FM. 12:.30 p~m., Art Building, Rm. 202. Philosophy Dept. Seminar - Speaker: Ian Hacking, Stanford University. Topic: \The Philosophy. of Language.\ 3 p.m., Humanities, Rm. 213. Film Committee presents - New York Erotic Film Festival. Soc. Sciences Rm. 016, 10 and 12 p.m. SATURDAY, FEB. S JV Basketball - Union vs Trinity; 6 p.m. Away. Varsity Basketball - Union vs Trinity; 8 p.m. Away. Ice Hockey Union vs Buffalo, 8 p.m. Achilles Rink. Wrestling ~ Onion vs <.ornell, 2 p.m. Alumni Gym. Varsity Swimming -Union vs Norwich; 2:30 p.m. Away. Track - Union vs Albany & Colgate, 12 noon. Fieldhouse. Alumni Council Meeting - Everyone invited to attend. 9 a.m. Soc. Sci., Rm. 016. Film Committee presents - New York Erotic Film Festival, 7, 9, II p.m. Soc. Sci., Rm. 016. SUNDAY, FEB. t; Film Committee presents - New York Erotic Film Festival. 7, 9, II p.m. Soc. Sci., Rm. 016. SUNY at Albany presents - The Ciompi String Quartet of Duke University. For info call 457-8606. 3 p.m. Page Hall. The Jewish Students Organization is sponsoring a brunch in celebration of Tu B'shvat at II a.m., in the Kosher Kitchen in the Davidson co-op lounge. All are welcome. M·ONDA Y, FEB. 7 Lecture - .. Creativity and Personal Growth,\ by Union's Associate Professof of Psychology Frank Calabria, guest .speaker at the Schenectad{ Chapter of Spiritual Frontiers Fellowship, 7:30 p.m., Union Presbyterian Church. 1068 Park Ave. Admission $2. lntt!Hectual Ca.baret. Professor Les Downing presents \Throats and Goats: Self-Interest and the. Collective Good.\ Strauss lounge, l:l:JO p.m. rree refreshments. · Union College Physics Dept. pres~;:nts ~, \Life On Mars'?\ - lecture by Dr. Les Hull of the Chemistry Dept. 4:30p.m., Bailey Hall, Rm. 207. Refreshments will be served at 4 p.m. Auditions --. for the musical comedy Bye, Bye, Birdie, will be held at 7 p.m. (and also on Tuesday at 7 p.m.) at Russell Sage College in th~;: Schact Fine Arts Center. Public is invited to attend and participate. For info call 270-2263. · Junior College of Albany presents - actor singer Brock Peters at the multi-media th~ater. 7:30 p.m. Public is inVited free of charge. TUESDAY, FEB. 8 Wrestling Union vs Oneonta, 8 p.m. Away. Women's Basketball - Union vs Cobleskill, away. Film Comrnittee presents ~ In Cold Blood. This film is based on Truman Capote's classic work; features Robert Blake as a murdering psychopath in a case based on real life. 7. 9: 15, II: 30 p.m., Soc. Sci., Rm. 016. Game Night - 9 p.m. to I a.m. Cabaret Room. Albany County Women's Political Caucus is sponsoring a reception. for the NYS Women legislators and Lt. Governor Mary Ann Krupsak at 8 p.m. Observation deck in the Tower building of the Empire State Plaza. Public is invited. Call 474- 4623. WEDNESDAY, FEB. 9 JV Basketball - Union vs Hamilton. 6 p.m. Away. Varsity Basketball - Union vs Hamilton, 8 p.m. Away. lee Hockey Union vs Williams, 8 p.m., Achilles Rink. Union College Christian Fellowship Prayer Meeting - Bronner House (North co-op) lounge. 9:30 p.m., followed by a fellowship meeting 7:30 p.m. Thursday. In Bronner House lounge. All are welcome! Placement - Recruitment for the Peace Corps and Vista program. Placement office. Appointments only. tChere IS a differeracet!! PREPARE FOR: MCAT • DAT Over 39~years of experience and success. Small classes. Voluminous home STudy materials. Courses that are constantly ~~~ated. Cen~ers open days and weekends all year. Complete tape fac1ht1es for rev1ew of class lessons and for use of supplementary materials. Make·ups for missed lessons at our centers. Classes for April exam NOW forming. Starting in February - Albany Area Our broad ·range ol programs provides an umbrella onesling know- how ·thai enables us to offer the best preparation available, further improving the individual course you ve selected. Syracuse Ctr. 315-451-2970. ~SICie NY S11te Omv ~:~, .. 188-221·9140 ·Coolor• .. ._, us c-. -~-H. ! IIIPUIN · DUCA'TIONAL CENTER L TO 1675 E 16 St Bklyn NV 11229 TESt PREPARA-TION SPECIALISTS SINCE 1938 ~Ulothen way. F~r p,. · ~be :ti<w.key ke mecntb.ers . .of any · team at the -e:<lHeg<l are e.etlf.e .1:t· , as ;J,~ng, ouly hpckey ; ~i£b,::::·.~~il:'; · .. :~:~~ •t~a~itifiiJ~,.. · !ill' it ·the ·· ;P;tayer\ ·• b~in~ I . .. . . . . , as • $tu«iJent and ft'ieud. · Sinee,relyt Sid Crean heaaf;l.fu~l To the Editors: write to express my enthusiasm for the freestyle figure skating exh'ibition perlQrmed by Nannette Pasquini between peri{>d!i of the Platt$burgh hockey game. 'Wi~h rutted ice and . both ho¢l(ey gtta!s ·to ,contend wi~h. · she· gave the audience a beautiful performance. has ·. chocolate ba(s and are placed .at 20 cents by Desormeau. We <lo not set the priee. · Desormel*u, does. Also, Des<mneau r.()tates the stock and attempts to. give a varied selection base<! :On what they find sells best. Once again, jn closing, if you have a p.roplern with the machine bearing one of our ' names, pkuse ~all and tell us. Sincerely, Brian L. Heaps. Ken Stone. To the Editors: l. simply ca!!J; n€>{ beljeve th~ · · things th~~ p~p;le say about :tfui·'hoekey·pr<:)gtilm in general' 1tild Coach Harkness in pa:rtieutar.. A :• l!fttet in· · . . ··we•tdCs· · .: C(ilit•~t~li~!l~~ Steven . Coach We•f'« .• 'i;f.\e .. · ~··.~l!S~s · . problems : in· nmgrain ~'!':·~- • J am n<lt -~:i1~1J!:-Jttrtfr lett\\tlft:;• 'to defend or-~~ A .• dntinil~ir~ilti<>'n. · ·· ,\J$· not . , need' .... d,efl':ll!l4:·•• . tnem~ Rather. 1 f~l that . many '. pe.o.pf~ •. i).;v~rl~ok ~~ .(tJipwing. he.r to ska;te. sli¢'U d:o it again; · ' · .. · . · · Sim;er.ely, ,, ' · ;B~CI~y Kirlibier . m. ;,,~---·nllaltsm .. 6\'-'\''\'• t~~ . T~l th~ .EilUm's: · .. . . . . . are be.ing As. no dtlU:bt many uf you · ·· ~ · m:·· · · · · '· h1tve, riotioed this fall a .:P¢~1t~~;,.,:~,,~:1~:~er:!, num:ber.ofcandy and cigarette a.;Jf,JleQI:\'l;lU<pjed -w:htutbe political ·machines were placed,, in the wt,fotglltt that theie. · donns· at\d G:at'negi:e· Hall. a gFt'tup ut\ people, not Over the past few weeks we , wJl() .. \a:te. i;nc:urt'i~ 'the : .fP~~rmeau, .. \ren<ting~ Keu ex•te1n ,0 T . ·JJtir · Stone, and.mysetf}~have•found ltle:ssnle:ss; 1fhe meri:l'OOts ·it · ne¢essaey :to· ·remove two\ ttt.cii*'ht:it'!k•~tr·i~mm· · ·~te 1?.itt of ~andy machines .~ft~. J'iay~pg · · A!!¢' au stud~fs ·l'iere ··. .tQund them vandahz~d. Wrt· .· ···;ont!~~~~!!~!~~!;~,~·.;:·.•·•·:.:!l!:~¢'•ma~~~nes.~a:~~ t;:~. r:~'~wtllQQiK'ed.··, AU . nf .. ~., .,.~re o:Cert:sion, malfunction and thaf · · y,ou , .los~k ~9UP,,n:~<>l~eox iw them. · .wr:e' {lq· ftt):t enjoy ,losing our ntbttey 1n madiines either, For t:his teitson .. ··-;oa· will'finJ one ·; O:t l}lt}.re of OUt ·tUUD¢S and ,,·-~ . ~;:;;sii ;:u h!~: rfuiny advantages <that Nert , .• · ·Harkness has · given CoJlege and t~ C!QtnUi~riity Scnenectad:y. ' . .In buitdingr, 1r· · t.op not:enx hockey team,· that. dese:rves less ~han to be playing Division I bcei<ey, Coat;h:· Harkness baS' .• ·s.(}'arke,4' .. enth.u;siasrn iJ:(},(f. StQdent interest llOt;. se~ •-~···· ........ Union team7 '·l ·fHs:\.Jll~t~:ag(~mj~~· of the AcbiUes a.Uowed . students . . . . unlimited opp(Hltt:nities to ·use· ·its facilities. A:nd his i'r ttet:e$t and supp(:)T! .yf t Schenectady ¥. Q,1.1t~: Hockey program has givl!'n many youngsters an ·tlpJ)Grtunity .... plaY hodci;.y, ·urn ·· boo many other cofiilii ' · · Let's not take N'ed.ltarkne!iS for granted. He· b~sdone mot1\l . .' · fof us at .. Hni6o'.tl Gl>~ge .ti:Uift; many people care ~JJld.tnlt. · Sineer~fy, B~n ~ J(t(,nish ·so p-roblems with the ma<:1nines pleas¢ call us, for not only ·· •have ;y,ou.last your r-nOneyf·but To the Editors · f~nkJ:y speaking we can't Union· fiQ(;key games, track· ·Union. Pharmacy AO Union St.· Men&· Women Student Neeth 374->36f . :ti1a¥e .. m<:lut~y ·· .. if the .. machine meets• and special ~v~nts 'draw ·.· . . f ·. work l:l.esonneau lar;ge. numbers '¥:()f ~ ~~etators< • • '!_g \b:~s . an an!nvering. and traffic praullfl1JS' to the . ~erv~ce on. 'CSU 24 . btst <!,·day.. camp.us. .. f\lhtctl;· etii~rt · {f Jt~:!l .()of rn:y$¢<li-cannot retp;dted td pre:ve;nt • / :,;::~u~:,; ;~ . ciiiripl!$ roadways 'by ··· can' ~take action. We regret we have ha~1 tn r-emove'thpse ma.ehin~s. . &tit 'we: mdiev¢ ... joii ; see . our . Pt~d~atn'ent. , cars, The SecuritY' Ptlroe Union has d(}tte a c(mun~.nd.ble jl)fP, liandlin!( the situaliofi Week after ~ek~ Wit · would like · ta · e!t:press out> thanks and appreciation. Touching ~:tit. an:otket note ~ ma.nyotyou:ltave ~quested ,certliifi seiectlons in the machines. Regrettably some of · tlte'se'''seleedoJrs· (such. M ''lain -·:,:.:·.:·~::\~' -.;·::;~-.:-:~·· .. -:· ::.-: .. - ::· -~., . - ,-:·. . . FOR .LIQUOR AND WINE Try Jake Lip stein's 464 State Street 374-1888 SillC{ii;tely~ . 1\ec\Jill· Schaty :tiatby Lett .·~'\(# Club MADISII\S TYPING· SER¥K! • Reports • Mu11seripta • These5 • .llesume!! Prompt Strvlc.e Rbuorlllblf Allu G3 u.t, St. 3'12-5141 Sdteaec:W,

calenoar THURSDAY, FEB. 3 Women's Basketball - Unian vs RPI; 7 p.m., Fieldhouse. Winter Bloadmabile Appoin.ttnents can be made at Mrs. Marra's office, S t1:1den t Activities. Refreshments wil:l be served to donors. II a.m.-5 p.m. Alumni Gym. Administrative & Engineering Systems Colloquim - Institute of Administration ai:~d Management. Speaker: Dr. Lyle Schoenfeldt, School of Management, RPL Topic: \The Early l:dentification of Management ·1 ale lilt; Progress and Prospects.\ 4 p.m., Bailey Hall, Rm. 207. FRIDAY, FEB. 4 Planning and Priorities Committee Meeting All members of the Union community are invited. 12:15 p.m., Library, Phi Beta Kappa Room. Noonday Musicale - with Hugh Allen Wilsan, harpsichord, Professor of Music; William Zwicker, recorder, Math Professor; and Steve Ovitsky, recorder, Program Mgr. for WMHT-FM. 12:30 p.m., Art Building, Rm. 202. Philosophy Dept. Seminar - Speaker: Ian Hacking, Stanford University. Topic: \The Philosophy of Language.\ 3 p.m., Humanities, Rm. 213. Film Committee presents - New York Erotic Film Festival. Soc. Sciences Rm. 016, lO and 12 p.m. SATURDAY, FEB. 5 JV Basketball - Union vs Trinity; 6 p.m. Away. Varsity Basketball - Union vs Trinity; 8 p.m. Away. Ice Hockey Union vs Buffalo, 8 p.m. Achilles Rink. Wrestling ~ Union vs Cornell, 2 p.m. Alumni Gym. Varsity Swimming - Union vs Norwich; 2:30 p.m. Away. Track - Union vs Albany & Colgate, 12 noon. Fieldhouse. Alumni Council Meeting - Everyone invited to attend. 9 a.m. Soc. Sci., Rm. 016. Film Committee presents New York Erotic Film Festival, 7, 9, II p.m. Soc. Sci., Rm. 016. SUNDAY, FEB. 6 Film Committee presents - New York Erotic Film Festival. 7, 9, II p.m. Soc. Sci., Rm. 016. SUNY at Albany presents - The Ciompi String Quartet of Duke University. For info call 457-8606. 3 p.m. Page Hall. The Jewish Students Organization is sponsoring a brunch in celebration of Tu B'shvat at II a.m., in the Kosher Kitchen in the Davidson co-op lounge. All are welcome. MONDAY, FEB. 7 Lecture \Creativity and Persot:~al Growth,\ by Union's Associate Professof of Psychology Frank Calabria, guest speaker at the Sdienectady Chapter of Spi,ritual Frontiers Fel1owship, 7:30 p.m., Union Presbyterian Church. I 06!1 Park Ave. Admission $2. Intellectual Cabaret Professor Les Downing .presernts \l hroats and Goats: Self-Interest and I he Collective Good.\ Strauss I o u n g e, g: 30 p.m. 1- re e refreshments. Union College Physics Dept. presents - \Life On Mars'!\ - lecture by Dr. Les Hull of the Chemistry Dept. 4:30p.m., Bailey HaH, Rm. 207. Refreshments will be served at 4 p.m. Auditions - for the musical comedy Bye, Bye, Birdie, will be held at 7 p.m. (and also on Tuesday at 7 p.m.) at Russell Sage College in the Schact 1-- ine Arts Center. Pt1blic is invited to attend and participate. For info call 270-2263. Junior College of Albany presents - actor singer Brock Peters at the multi-media theater. 7:30 p.m. Public is invited free of charge. TUESDAY, FEB. 8 Wrestling Union vs Oneonta, 8 p.m. Away. Women's Basl,etball - Union vs Cobleskill, away. Film Committee presents ~ In Cold Blood. This film is based on Truman Capote's classic work; features Robert Blake as a murdering psychopath in a case based on real life. 7, 9: 15, 11:30 p.m., Soc. Sci., Rm. 016. Game Night - 9 p.m. to I a.m. Cabaret Room. Albany County Women's Political Caucus is sponsoring a reception for the NYS Women legislators and Lt. Govcrllor Mary Ann Krupsak at S p.m. Observation deck in the Tower building of the Empire State Plaza. Public is invited. Call 474- 4623. WEDNESDAY, FEB. ~ JV Basketball - Union vs Hamilton. 6 p.m. Away. Varsity Basketball - Union vs Hamilton, S p.m. Away. Ice Hockey Union vs Williams, 8 p.m., Achilles Rink. Union College Christian Fellowship Prayer Meeting - Bronner House (North co-op) lounge. 9:30 p.m .. followed by a fellowship meeting 7:30 p.m. Thursday. In Bronner House lounge. All are welcome! Placement - Recruitment lor the Peace Corps and Vista program. Placement office. Appointments only. 'Cbere IS a differen~e!t! PREPARE FOR: MCAT • DAT Over 39•years of experience and success. Small classes. Voluminous home $fudy materials. Courses that are constantly updated. Centers open days and weekends all year. Complete tape facilities for review of class lessons and for use of supplementary materials. Make-ups for missed lessons at our centers. Classes for April exam NOW forming. Starting in February - Albany Area Our broad range of programs prov•des an umbrella of testmg know- how that enables us to offer the best prpparahon ava•lable. further omprov•ng the md•v•dual course you ve selected Syracuse Ctr. 315-451-2970 OutSide NY State Only ~:~~, .. 860-221-9840 c... • ., ...... us c.o.s c~~· ! ou~!AL CE~ER LTD 1675 E 16 Sl Bklyn NY 11229 TEST PREPARATION SPECIALISTS SINCE 1938 Letters to the Editors rampant on the campus affects the members of the hockey · team in still another way. For some reason, the hockey players. unlike memhers of any other team at the college are perc~ivt::d as being only hockey players w lth no other dimensions to their personalities. It is as if the word~ \hockey player\ summed up an entire being, I regard this attitude as ignorant and repugnant. Yes, they are hockey players, but they are also individuals with varying interests and talents. l am not qualified to discuss each member's personal reasons for coming to Union because I do not know them. I think it is fair to assume, however. that they all expected (and hopefully still expect) to receive from. and to offer to Union more than just skills in hockey. Unfortunately, this reasonable expectation may never be granted to a good portion of these individuals. They are the victims of a political issue venturing around the future role of athletics at Union; particularly whether or not we desire to increase our involvement in athletic activities. It is not the purpose of this letter to discuss the merits and disadvantages of our possible opti.ons concerning this controversy. I do not question the importance of the problem as a long term goal; but at present I am most interested in Union's short term goals. Specifically, I am referring to attitude concerning the individuals who are being affected by this controversy now. Perhaps we are all so preoccupied with the political rhetoric; we forgot that there is a group of people, not objects who are incurring the full extent of our thoughtlessness. The members of the hockey team are p-art of us~we are,all students here together. 1 believe this (act is too often forgotten or overlooked. All .of us are sharing ou college experience together. and for most of us there will only be one time around. In a very real sense we each have a hand in determining how worthwhile and memorable these years will be for one another. We all have the ability to bring happiness as well as pain to each other. 1t is my contention that since we all have the same four years to either make it or break it, it is incumbent upon every one of us. to insure, as best we can. one another's happiness. let us re~evaluate our priorities and see if perhaps people do not merit greater consideration than administrative policies. I extend my sincere hopes that the members of our hockey team have a rewarding sea::;on as hockey players and that each man has a fulfilling and memorable stay at Union Union Pharmacy 600 Union St. Men&· Women Student Needs 37+36tt as a student and friend. beautiftll To the Editors: Sincerely, Sid Crean write to express my er1thu~iasm for the freestyle figure skating exl'dbition per!otnied by ;-; . .,.nnettc Pasquini between periods ol the Platt~burgh hockey game. With rutted ice and both hockey goals to contend with, she gp.ve the audience a beautiful performaHcc: Nannette. a freshman. has given her time trcely to teaching advanced figure skating in the intramural program. She is an inteme, enthusiastic. and generous person who instills hope and cheerfulness in her class. Her \Come on. I know you can do it\ attitude is contagious. She approaches her studies and cheerleading with the same spirit. I hank you, Nannette, for giving us such a beautiful look at another equally d itlicult form of skill and grace on the ice. I hank you, Ned, for allowing her to skate, I hope she'll do it again. Sincer~ly, Becky Kershner To the Editors; As, no doubt many of you have noticed, this fall a number of candy and cigarette machines were placed in the dorms and Carnegie HalL Over the past few weeks we {Desormeau Vending, Ken Stone, and myself) have found it necessary to remove two candy machines after having .lound them vandalized. We appreciate the fact that vending machines do, on occasion. malfunction and that you lose your money in them. We do not enjoy losing our money in machines either. For this reason, you will find one or more of our names and phone numbers on the machines we run_ lf you have problems with the machines please call us, for not only have y,ou lost your money, but frankly speaking we can't make money if the machine doesn't work. Oesormeau Vending has an answering service on tall 24 hrs. a day. and if Ken or myself cannot fix it, we can usually get repair. service that day or the next. lf repeated repair is necessary we can take other courses of action. We regret that we have had to remove those machines, hut we believe you see our predicament. fouching on another note many of you have requested certain selections in the machines. Regrettably .some of these selections (sud as plain FOR LIQUOR AND WINE Try Jake Lip stein's 464 State Street 374-1888 con ~t from pg. 7 · chocolate bars and M&M's) an~ placed at 20 cents by Desorrneau. We do not set the price. Dcsormeau does. Also, Dcsormeau. rotates the stock and attempts to give a varied · ~election based on what they . find liells best. Once again. in dosing, if you have a problem with the machin¢ hearing one of our , na-mes. pleu~e caN and tell us. Sincerely, Brian L Heaps Ken Stone astonished To the Editors: I simply can not believe the things that people say about the hockey program in general and Coach Harkness in particular. A letter in last week's Concordiensis by Steven Loren mentioned that Coach Harkness and the Union College Administration were the causes of the problems in the Hockey program. l am not writing this letter to defend either Ned Harkness or the Administration, for they do not need me to defend them. Rather I feel that too · many people overlook the many advantages that Ned Harkness has given Union College and the community of Schenectady. In building a top notch hockey team, that deserves no less than to be playing mvision I hockey, Coach Harkness has sparked enthusiasm and stud.ent interest not seen for any other · Union team. His mtyiagement of the Achilles Rink has . allowed students virtually unlimited opportunities to use its facjlities. And his interest and support of the Schenectady Youth Hockey program has given many youngsters an opportunity to play hockey, unmatched in many other commqnities. Let's not take Ned Harkness for granted. He has done more for us at Union College than many people care to admit. Sincerely, · Beti Kronish '89 To the Editors Union Ho¢key games, track meets, and special events draw large numbers of spectators and traffic probJems to the campus. Much effort is required to prevent the destruction of Qpen grassy areas and the blocking of campus roadways by parked cars. The Security Force at Union has done a commendable job handling the situation week after week. We would like to express our thanks and appreciation. Sincerely, Kevin Schary Kathy Lett PYE Club MADISON'S TYPING SERVICE • Repo11s • Manuscript! • Theses • Resumes Prompt ~rvlce &;uoPIIIbk Rlltn 03 LIINI1J St. 312-5Nj SdllllldadJ

Page 10 CONCORDIENSIS, Feb. 2, 1977 eportu Plattsburgh Hands Tracksters First Loss by ROCKY DOLAN Bob Moffatt already qualified in the IC4A by virtue of his pre-Christmas Vermont Invitational victory anchored 2 triumphant relays and captl!lred the 600-yard dash in I: 12. 7. Moffatt, who has beaten all comers in the 600, came from behind to win the mile relay, and protected a big Union lead-in the 2-mile relay - his anchor split being 2 minutes even. Led by a sweep of the field events, including a triple gold medal performance by jumping ace Larry Parker, undefeated Plattsburgh State handed Union College's indoor track team its first loss of the season. The previously unbeaten Dutchmen were hampered by a lack of depth in the track events and their failure to score well in the field sector of the competition. Also, entries from Middlebury and Hartwick showed up on Saturday, and these ·competitors may have hurt the Dutchmen's chances: in a 3 or 4 team meet the scoring is to 4 places, a system which underscores the need for depth in all events and would tend to favor large squads. The high point of the afternoon's proceedings was a 1- 2-3 sweep of the 55-yard high hurdles led by Union's sophomore Matt Blum. Blum's ·6.9 led classmates Mark Decker and Phil Stegman to 2nd and 3rd place finishes, n.spectively. Both were timed in 7;0 seconds, but Decker had set a new Fieldhouse record in the trials of 6. 9. This record lasted only until the finals of the event, where Blum's effort was. good enough to tie it. Mark Decker, Matt Blum, Phil Stegman sweep hurdles, Start Wiskoski yvas a surprise victor in the 2-mile. In only his '2nd competitive attempt at the event this winter, Wiskoski circled the field with an amazing burst of speed in the last quarter-mile, and won by 4 seconds in his best time of 9:38.0. freshman Matt Guilfoyle, Vielkind, Scheuer, and Moffatt fashioned a come-from-behind win in the mile relay. Pete Vielkind had a fine day overall, running a I :57 split on the 2-mile relay that put the race away, and placing 3rd in the 600 at 1:16.5. in the 50-yard dash, Union freshman Ed Dingman slipped into 3rd place with a time of 5.5 seconds, averting a Plattsburgh sweep of the event. However, Plattsburgh's domination of this event put the Cardinals out in front for good. In the field events, the big news was Plattsburgh State's Larry jump (46-5 !1), and a Fieldhouse record-tying high jump (6-8). Sophomore Tom Howes followed Parker in the long jump with a jump of 21-5, and classmate Earl Chilton was second in the triple at 44..:8!12. Dave Couens tied Plattsburgh's ·Jim Murphy at second in the high j11t11p with a leap of 6-6. -Senior cQ-captain Bruce Bona-no picked up second in the pole vault with his l>est leap of the year, IJ.:o. Plattsburgh's Joe DeMaria was the winner in this event, and teammate Wayne Bennett captured tbe shot put. Union coach Ken Michelsen was, of course, somewhat disappointed about the loss~ the secend conse.cutive year Plattsburgh has interrupted Union's plans for an undefeated campaign. Michelsen was pleased, however, by the fine individual performances, noting that 4 Fieldhouse records of one sort or another had been set in the course of the afternoon. This Saturday, the - Flying O.ut~hmen face Colgate., Springfield, Albany State, Oswego and Hamilton at I 2 noon in the Fieldhouse. Once again Union was led by fine performances from sophomore Kevin Scheuer and junior co-captain Bob Moffatt. In the mile, Scheuer stayed with the field early in the race, and then, as has become customary, literally ran a way with the race over the last quarter mile. Scheuer left the field arrears by some J 0 seconds, finishing in 4: I 7. I , the fastest mile ever run by a Union athelete in the fieldhouse. It was the same story in the 1000 yard run for Scheuer later in the meet, taking that event in :2:13.2. This time set a new Fieldhouse record, and qualified him for the IC4A meet held in March. Scheuer as well had a hand in the mile relay win later on in the day. The lead-off and final events of the day were the relays, and Union assembled successful teams in both. Sophomore Pete Pettit, in his first track competition in 20 months, Wiskoski, freshman Pete Vielkind, and Bob Moffatt ran away with the 2-mile relay, and Parker who gave his team an . ' _ . . , ~~rl~h!ea~nbi }~~~n72~9~.ic~~r~~: Trackster of. the Week Fo-R YOUR VALENTINE FLOWERS- John J. Gallo Your Downtown Florist 96 JAY ST. ( opp. City, HaD) Dial 346-4487 SCHENECTADY ATTENTION ALL STUDENTS: Please Check Your Campus Mailbox REGULARLY All Important Campus Mail Comes To Your Box The PENNY PINCHER QUALITY CLOTHES- LOW PRICES USED BUT NOT ABUSED CURRENT STYLES Ull ALTAMONT AVE. (Entrance Bendce St.) Tuesday - Saturday 10.5 Thursday's tiD 9 p.m. 356-2571 For The First Time On Campus Bock Beer ON TAP St.50 Pitchers 20¢ Draft (10 oz.) Thurs., Feb lOth 7pm-Ciosing AT THE SKELLAR DOLLAR DAYS MONDAY& TUESDAY. • SUITS • SPORTCOATS • OUTERWEAR • SLACKS • SHIRTS No Store Charges - No Alterations 420 State St. Downtown Schenectady \+~=~;. t:· ~JRS. 'til 9 Maste,. Charge • Bankamericard Aviation Mall Glens Falls DAILY 'til9:.·0 This issue's Indoor Track star is Fieldhouse record, and again just sophomore middle-distance off his school record of 2:13. runner Kevin Scheuer. ln Finally, Scheuer capped off his Saturday's meet with Plattsburgh, afternoon by running the third leg Scheuer began his day by running of Union's victorious mile relay away with the mile in 4:17.1, the team. Last year, Kevin came fastest mile ever run by a Union within one-half second of being athlete in the Fieldhouse, and selected for the Division UI close to the school record of outdoor track All-America team. 4:16.4 set by Scheuer himself as a He is from Scotia, N.Y., attended freshman. Next, Sclleuer posted a nearby Bishop Gibl>ons High wire-to-wire triumph in the School, and., is majoring .in thousand-yard run;. taking this Electrical Engineering. event in 2: 13.2~ aga.in a new --tehere IS G diffe-reneell!(oo;,u,·iD••• Bt PREPARE FOR: Year MCAT•DAT•LSAT•SAT GRE • GMAT • OCAT • VAT Our broad range of programs provides an umbrella of test· ing know-how that enables us to offer tl)e best preparation available, no matter which course is taken. Over 38 years of experience and success. Small classes. Voluminous home study materials. Courses that are constantly up- dated. Perma11ent centers open days, evenings & week· ends all year. Complete tape facilities for review of class lessons and for use .of supplementary materials. Make-ups for missed lessons at our centers. ECFMG • FLEX NAT'L MEDICAL & DENTAL BOARDS Flexible Programs & Hours Brooklyn . . . . . . . ... 212~336-5300 ilflil'i M tJ New Jersey . . 201·846-2662 lVI , ............ . . ............. ~r , Lon9' Island , . . . ... 516·538-4555 . .. .U'Jip · N: OLJisocle NV State Only,~· 00 2 . 21 984 , 0 . EDUCATIONAL CENTER LTD CAll Toll Free • , • , 1675 E 16St Bklyn . . NV 11229 Centers\ MaJor U.S, Coloesand Lugano. SwllzerlaM TEST PREPARATION SPECIALISTS SINCE 1938 FAMOUS FOR DIAMOND VALUES Blr2iEiiiiJ Maurice B. Graubart & Sons ---------------'The Jay St. Jeweler' 'Serving Union For Three Generations' 166 Jay St. QuaHty Service & Fine Workmllhllhlp HERS'HEL MAURICE B WALTf:R //.//././/r//////// -- { by Last Dutchn half heJ in the Roches score < estimat< conside been ·P games. The shoo tin only hi Roches throw! half. Unio with t Marsh~ In a 11 had pu Smith again ' game ~ season. points. Unio a Pete off the instant field g( At t pressinJ conseq·1 the COl points , Roches try t~ respect; home. Agai: played win. I oppone play a to' finis very sh On put to from :s back tl a score In Grap: squa' brin! \4. Af mat11 later their side, ,felko Gem Mike by I Van by I first outs1 capt: his I and 2 p( they mat< El Grat mee1 but win tearr s~co Tl face the _JiUPr L

, ' I . ·, (;0!'/C_D~D~ENS/S, Feb: 2, 1977 Page 11. 6pOrt5 Union Dutchmen Begin to Roll by LANCE BOBROW Last Wednesday night, the Dutchmen played a very poor half before turning things around in the second half to defeat the Rochester Yellow J!ackets by a score of 74-67. The crowd was estimated at 200 which is a shame considering the way Union· has been playing over the last few games. The first half featured poor shootingby Union as they could only hit on II of, 36 shots. Also, Rochester hit on 18 of 20 free throws. to go up 34-25 at the half. Union opened the second half with buckets by Borgese and Marshall to pull Union with five. In a matter of minutes, Union had pulled even at 44 on a Mike Smith three-point play. Smith again was playing a tn':mendous game as he has been doing all season. He was to finish with 20 points and eight rebounds. Union then went up to stay on · a Pete Meola basket. Pete came off the bench tonight to supply instant offense and 14 points on 7 field goals. At this point, Union began pressing all over the court and consequently blew Rochester off the court. Union was up by 14 points with 1:17 remaining before Rochester ran off a few points to try to make things look respectabl~ for their fans back home. Again ;in this hallgame,· Union played as well ~s they had to to win. I will feel sorry for Union's opponent when the Dutchmen play a grett ballgame from start to' fin:ish as they are likely to do very shortly. On Saturday; the Dutchmen put together .a great ballgame from start to finish in turning back the St. Lawrence Latries by a score··of 85-74. Union was dow:n Wrestlers Defeated by JON SHORR In their latest effort, the Union Grapplers defeated a Kings Point squad by a score of 33-1.6, bringing their overall record. to 8- 4. . .. After falling behind 12-0 the matmen came on strong in the later matches with 33 points to their opponents' 4. On the Union side, Chuck Ernest and Pete .Felker both came out on top. George Redder and co-captain Mike Paquette took their matches by lopsided scores while Matt Van Benthem went away in. style by pinning his opponent in the. first period. Continuing his outstanding season was co- captain Jim Sutton who pinned his Kings Point rival. Dave Ward and Fran Rindenello both earned 2 points for the Union cause as they wrestled to a draw in their matches. Earlier in the season the Grapplers were bested in a 3-way meet by Springfield and Amherst but returned home for a 48-12 win over Williams. The Union team then defeated RPI for the s~cond time. this season, 35-9. The wrestling team will next face Cornell on Saturday at 2 in the gym. The team needs your support,_ be there. lUKE'S SUPEitMA~KET .830 EASTERN AVE. 8 AM- 10 PM 1 DAYS Full line of deli, cold beer and soda. pr()dqc:e and arocery. early in the game before taking off on a 12-0 spurt to go up to stay. Early in the game, the Larries used their height advantage to convert some of their missed shots into buckets. This helped catapult thetn to a 20-15 lead midway through the first ha.Jf. At this point, Union got tough off the boards and took a 43-28 lead into the dressing room. Early in the second half, a three-point play dosed the gap to 12 points before Pete Meola converted on a pair .of layups to give Union the upper hand once again. Union then opened up a 20 point lead before coasting the rest of the way. The Union frontline stole the headlines once again as there were some great individual performances. Al Walker came through with 21 points and 11 rebounds in his best all-round effort of the season. However, Pete Meola and Mike Smith-have been doing the job all season and tonight Was no exception. Pete Meola came off the bench to score 20 points and add 10 rebounds. Mike Smith continued to give theopposition all sorts of problems as he added a .game high 23 points. Mike, who is Union's best percentage shooter. connected on five of his six field goal attempts and was 13-16 from the foul line. Rarely do you see Smith take a bad shot. · Union is now 6-& and will take to the road. Hopefully, with a few victories in a row, the Dutchmen can continue to put their act together on the road. Saturday, the Dutchmen journey to Trinity and . next Wednesday the opposition will be provided by the very tough H.amilton Continentals. Game time for both Of these games will be 7:55 over WRUC. Hoopster of the Week This feature had not been seen earlier due to the poor getaway of thebasketball team. However,. the basketball team has started to roll and, hopefully, should continue to do so. This week, the award goes to Mike Smith, a junior from Northampton, Mass. Despite the slow start of the Dutchmen, Mike has been the one player Coach Scanlon has been able to rely on. This week, Mike scored 23 and 20pointsand showed why he has given opposing coaches headaches all season. AI Walker goes to the hoop Swimmers Face Hard Times This past week was a tough one for the Garnet swimmers. Last Wednesday Coach Magee's crew sl).ffered a tough loss in Hartford at the hands of Trinity College, and on Saturday the marines of the United States Merchant Marine Academy at Kings Point came to Schenectady and . defeated Union in two hours of exciting competition. ihe scores of both meets, however. show nothing ·of the fight Union's team put up against two strong adversaries and give no indication of the individual t~me victories achieved by many of the swimmers. Against Trinity, the 400 yd Medley Relay team of Nick Gassaway, Jim Lowe, Mark Peronto, and AI Hertzberg turned in ~me of the finest times ever recorded by a Garnet foursome. lrv Kaufman and Nick Gassaway were barely edged out of crucial third places by tenths of seconds, and diver Rich Agnello lost first place in the Required Diving by a controversial 1.30 points. On Saturday, Union's men did not have enough to beat the powerful Kings Point squad, but the Garnet put up a good and heartfelt fight in every event. Doug Richardson, a sophomore. from Norwalk, Connecticut, took · first place in both the 500 and 1000 yd heestyles, and Mark Peronto, a freshman from Pittsfield, Massachusetts, proved to be the O\ltstanding swimmer of the meet by turning in excellent times in the 200 yd Individual Medley, 200 yd Butterfly, and the Medley Relay. These times, .coupled with his two victories against Trinity in the Medley Relay and the 200 yd Butterfly, have boosted Peronto . to the status of outstanding swimmer of the week. Current Intramural Records, Statisti·cs Basketbal.l D.V.A. A LEAGUE NBA. Siama Chi A Hicks Park Place Sigma Phi A Farrahs Fawcetts The Renegades Faculty-Staff ii.S.A. Win· Loss 4 0 2. 1 2. 1 2 2 1 1 l 2 1 2 l 2 0 3 B LEAGUE NBA (Division l) Win Loss South Poles 4 0 The Twits 3 1 Chi Psi Z Team 3 l Flames 3rd Floor West 2 2 Sigma Chi C 2 2. Semipro Studs l 3 Strutters 1 3 Phi Sigma Kappa 0 4 CORR Flames Flames D.V.B. 3 l (Division 2) Win Loss Sostek 's Stars 3 1 Pyramid 3 1 Lambskins 2. 2 Crabs 1 3 Demons l 3 -P.D.T. BuffaloChips I 3 Theta Delhi Chi 1 3 A LEAGUE ABA Win Loss Seward Rats 5. 0 New Yorkers 4 0 ChiPsiA 3 1 Delta Phi 2 1 Warriors 2 2 Kull The Destroyerr 2 3 FijiA 2 3 Beta Bombers l 3 Three Toed Sluths 0 4 Banchees' 0 4 B LEAGUE ABA (Division 1) Win Loss Whippots 3 l . Trojans· 3 l Delta Chi 3 1 Cohens Shamrocks 2 2 Psi Upsil~n 1 l Smegma 1 2 NADS 0 3 Fiji \B;' 0 3 (Division 2) .Sixers Win Loss 4 0 3rd Floor David- soil South \B\ 3 Chi Psi B Team 3 Sigma Chi \B\ 1 The Velvet Carnival 2 Dutch Hollow Pub 1 Sigma Phi B 1 3rd Fl. Davidson South \A\ 0 l 1 1 2 2 4 4 Hockey A League Top Scorers Player G Asst:r Martini -Chi Psi 6 2 8 Taube • T.D. Chi 6 1 7 Kronish • Fiji 5 2 1 Jenet - Psi U 4 1 5 Rothman ·AD Phi 3 1 4 Sisler • Fiji 4 0 4 Bagley - Chi Psi 2 l 4 · Anderson -Chi Psi l 3 4 A LEAGUE STANDINGS _ TEAM W L Pts. ChiPsi 2 0 4 F.iji 2 0 4 PsiU 2 0 4 A.D. Phi 1 1 2 T.D. Chi 1 · l 2 Albany Law 0 l 0 D.V. 0 3 0 Delta P·hi 0 2 0 B LEAGUE STANDINGS TEAM Sigma Chi Delta Chi Phi Delta Theta Alumni Fiji \B\ Mother Puckers W L Pts. 3 0 6 1 0 2 1 2 2 1 Q 2 1 2 2 0 3 0 B LEAGUE TOP SCORERS PLAYER G Asst.T VanValkenburg 3 2 5 Crawford 3 l 4 Dingman 4 0 4 Edwards l l 3 Talbot l 1 3 INTRAMURAL NEWS Indoor Track Meet: On Sunday, February 6, at l :00 p.m. in the fieldhouse an indoor track meet will be conducted for all interested students, faculty and staff. The following events will take place: long jumps, 50 yard dash, 55 yard low hurdles, 4 lap relay, 8 lap relay, mile run, shot put and high jump. Trophies will be presented to the winner of each event. Entries must be in the Intramural office on or before Friday, February 4, at 5:00 p.m. Table Tennis: On Thursday, February 3, in the fiedhouse a table tennis tournament will be conducted. Entries are currently being accepted in the intramural ()ffice located in the Alumni Gym. Starting time will be 7:00 p.m., trophies will be presented to the winners. BUSINESS OPPORTUNITY Stuff Envelo~es $25.00 PER HUNDRED Immediate Earnings Send $1.00 To: Envelopes Dept~ Z. 7 6 102 Charles Street Boston, Mass. 02114

CONCORDIENSIS, Feb. 2, 1977 5pOrt6 ' • ~ • - • ~ • • 1 ~ .. l • • • • - • • • • Dutchmen Overpower UNH II • Edge Salem State by RICH GUARDIAN Three mim1tes and 25 seconds later, Peter Crawford fed Feasby with a brilliant breakaway pass. Feasby skated to the right of the goalie and let loose a shot which caught the left side of the rtetting for a 2-0 lead. The fans, corning alive wi,th their best performance of the season, took a page right out of the books of such hockey schools as Clarkson and R PI and exploded with chants of \Let's go UNH got its first conversion on an easy 4-3 powerplay goal at 15:14. Working the puck around the corners, the Wildcats centered to Frank Roy who poked it in. Dominating the offense for the remainder of the period, UNH was denied by the Union defense and goalie Baker time and time again as the Dutchmen killed a 5- on-3 UN H powerplay to go into the locker rooms with a 3-1 lead. The Wildcats encountered some bad luck as the Dutchmen got a few breaks in the period. A UNH shot hit the crossbar while several shots on an open net were missed, including one from less than 5 ket out. Two pucks went into the net just as whistles were blown so these 2 goals were not allowed. Apparently the referees ruled that Baker had control of the pucks before UN H players dislodged Dutchmen Win Witb 4-1 3rd Period Blowoout Jack Rankin blocked 9 shots, Don Marshall scored 3 times, Grant Judd was all over the ice, and Steve Baker steered away 46 shots, as a complete effort by the Dutchmen bla7ed them to an g-4 victory over ~o. 2 in the nation, l·niversity of ]\;ew Hampshire. Last Friday night before an SRO Achilles Rink crowd, the skating Dutchmer:~ of ·Union College pro\ed themselves to he every bit as good as they have been accla1med to be by beating the 2nd-best college hockey team in the m lire l: mted States. Ranked natJOnally tlnl) behind Wi~consin, and :'\.o. I m the east, the :\<t:v. Hamp>htr~ Wildcats laced allred- up L mon !->lJUad that played tn the Utfl1ll~t ot the1r pott?ntial. up~etting the pov..erhouse. Icenien of the Week Union fans were given a fright at I: 16 when New Hampshire's Ralph Cox, who starred with Baker and Marshall irt high scHool, received a pass which he steered in from right in front of the net to knot the score at 4 apiece. But the deadlock was shortlived as the Dutchmen came back with pressure to score 4 unanswered goals. Dean Willers got a solo goal at 4:04 to put U nioFl ahead for good. Maneuvering in front of the net, Wi·llers lilted a shot over the lelt leg of ll]'.;H's Marks. At 9:43 Judd centered a pass to Feasby who slicked the puck up. Willer~ got his 3rd assist of the night on the riay. Marshall upped the lead to 7-4 at 12: 2J. Stealing a pass in center ice. he scored a shot from the lett ol the goalie. witH Jenkim getting an assist on the play. Crawford and Jenkins set up Marshall's 7th goal in 2 games as a tri-captain and his hat-trick for the night at 17:57. Crawford cleared to Jenkins who skated down the rigHt lane and then hit Marshall with a picture-perfect feed in the slot. Dutchmen Open Earl) l.ead f·wm the npen1ng faL·e-ott. 1t was evident that 2 highly competlti ve teams were on the ict:. Forceful skating and hard. physical checks were displayed by both squads. Standout defenseman Rankin got the first of many blocked shots at I :31, pouncing on the puck with true determination. The visiting Wildcats demonstrated their famed pass control, moving the puck rapidly around the corners in Uni()n's zone. Steve Baker had the first of his many saves at 2:00 when Bob Miller, a 1976 Olympian and former high school teammate of Mark Jenkins, fired a shot from the point. Union responded by bringing the rebouna down ice to the UNH zone and putting on a fury of pressure as shots zipped past the left and right of the net. Achilles Rink erupted when at 7:00, Dutchmen pressure paid off to put thern ahead 1-0. On a powerplay. Kip Churchill dropped the puck off to Doug feasby on the left wing. Feasby's shot was blocked but Marshall hustled in for the rebound and powered a shot which bounced over goaltender Dan Magnarelli for the score. Based on last Friday's game aga1nst nationally ranked University of :--.iew Hampshire. the weekly honor \Player of the Week\ can he gl\en to no ind1\ idual performer. I hen:fore. this \\eck we honor the entire t:n1nn College Hockey squad. I he k\el ot hockey exhihited h) Union. Union Let's go\ and jeers of \Sieve\ at the UN H goaltender. At 13.21 Grant Judd, assisted by Churchill and Dean Willers, boosted Union to an unexpected 3-0 lead. Skating with the puck on the left wing, Judd looked for someone to center to, then took a shot from 15 feet which beat the goalie past his up- raised left arm. the Dutchmen was outstanding throughout the hard fought contest, as they crushed their highly rated opponents X-4. Otlensi\ely, Union displayed t ierce lore-checking, crisp passing, and the ahility to put the puck in the net v. hen the chances arose. 2 UNH Goals Invalidated The Judd, Churchill, feasby line provided Union's fourth score at 2:03 in the 2nd period to stretch the margin to 4-1. Judd took a centering pass and steered it in between the legs of the goalie from right in the crease. Mark Evans came into the UN H nets at 9:58 to replace Magnarelli. Defensively, the Dutchr:11en were sturdy throughout. using strong hack-checking. smart p·lay in front of the net. and superb goa ltendi ng. Best wisht?s to the team in the future a!'> the) wl'ltinue their them. Strong pressure by New Hampshire allowed them to score twice before the end of the period. A shot by Joe Rando was screened and could not be stopped at II :0 I. At 14:00, a shot from the right point was blocked l:)ut Joe Fontas was in the crease and followed up on the rebound. Victors Exuberant Achilles Rink fans went wild with chants of \We're Number One!!! .. as the Dutchmen notched a historic victory. Balanced playing by the entire team and closed-door goaltending by Baker paced the victory. The entire squad played the best game of their. careers in this impressive win. Coach Ned Harkness waved acknowledgements to the crowd in a show of appreciation of their support. The Dutchmen, now 3-1 against Division I teams. upped their record to 13-2-1 overall and to 6-1 in Division II when they beat divisional strength Salem State 6-5 last night in Massachusetts. Doug Feasby had a hat-trick and scored the winning goal. This Saturday night the Dutchmen face Buffalo in a match where they will try to avenge their loss to the same team last month. Women's Basketball Season Begins by KATHY LETT Before Christmas, ten Union women committed themselves to long, daily practices and extra hours in the Gym and the Fieldhouse. Somehow, the pain and excuses of past seasons didn't seem quite so real now, because there's so much hope, so., much desire to do well. ' A new coach was hired: Jack Washington, who has experienced the game as a collegiate player and coach. We thought. \Yes he'll make us work. We'll learn so much, try so hard .. lt will be different this year.\ There is something that must be proven to this campus full of Could If he 2 pmnt.1jor Union:' men's intramurals and varsity sports. The women here must establish for themselves a home from which to live and grow. For some, sports are a dimension of growth. We want acceptance here as women, as athletes, and we want to share this dimension and the pride we derive from it with Union. The team and Coach Washington can live with defeat, but only when we have played to our capacity. We owe Union that much. The team isn't large, but hope peaked as the season drew nearer. We scrimmaged against Williams knowing that their team was quicker, more aggressive. But in the losmg and the mistakes, we're better prepared for coming games. We laced RPI missing two forwards due to injury. We each tried to play a little longer, a little harder. R PI was neither fast nor strong, yet some of us lost our heads or played stiffly under tension. Alter the loss of 52 to 41, the good moments and little victories came to mind. ·1 he mistakes we would correct in practice. Our psyche still wasn't right as we met North Adams State. The good basketball we had drilled and worked to produce was not evident. As the scoreboard flashed the final score of 70 to 22, tears of frustration and shame came to many of us. Memories from past seasons returned all too clearly. A complete and psyched Union squad faced St. Rose last Saturday. We pulled ahead playing our game, a running D UNION COLLEGE PUB ~E5TAURANT game. The mistakes and turnovers were many but did not dampen our spirits. The final score: Union 62, St. Rose 39. We traveled to Utica Tuesday, our hope strengthened by a victory. Thursday, Feb. 3, we battle RPI in the Fieldhouse. We appreciate the continued support of the Athletic Dept., Craig Carlson, Bob Ridings, and those who share in our struggle here. Special at The ~« c )L.HENl<..TADY,N'f. iLl08 DUTCH H.OLLOW 1-iOLLOW Steak & Brew l Pitcher of Beer or Carafe of Wine per Person FRI. & SAT. NITE 5-8 P.M. atlllflllllllllllllll II IIIII oiC>IIIIIIOollt Italian Buffet - S2.99 Every Thurs. All You Can Eat ;:o w 9:< ' ~'*\~ ... \' ~ ~~ a.. .. _ ..,..,.._~~ Adn Se Accusa the Ath based to and nc highJightE Senate rr Old Cl discussi01 remarks Bonner, I challenge of issues. The rn President to be ab CollegeS Thursday his oper traced t athletics . salient e\ the Tn Athletic I Achilles the pre: England Conferent The P the circu the Ath created aJ it faced referred t meeting inquiries by Union hockey, impressio of the P: NESCAC ( Divisior inconsiste of NESC hindered discussior The p1 specificall what \a ,.•· ·I·.·· .... .BQgt>t Cone( Inter Alice: Unio Arts .Editor Comm ClassU .Spotts

CONCORDIENSIS, Feb. 2, 1977 aport a ' Dutchmen Overpowe.r UN:H : Edge Salem State by RICH GUARDIAN Jack Rankin blocked 9 shots, Don Marshall scored 3 times, Grant Judd was aU over the ice, and Steve Baker steered away 46 shots, as a complete effort by the Dutchmen blazed them to an 8A victory over No. 2 in the nation, University of New Hampshire. Last Friday night before an SRO Achilles Rink crowd, the skating Dutchmen of Union College proved themselves to be every bit as good as they have been acclaimed to be by beating the 2nd-best college hockey team ·in the entire United States. Ranked nationally only behind Wisconsin, and No. I in the east, the New Hampshire Wildcats faced a fired- up Union squad that played to the utmost of their potential, upsetting the powerhouse. Dutchmen Open Early (,ead From tht: opening fact:-off, it was evident that 2 highly competitive teams were on the ice. Forceful skating and hard, physical checks were displayed by both squads. Standout defenseman Rankin got the first of many blocked shots at I :31, pouncing on the puck with true determination. The visiting Wildcats demonstrated their famed pass control, moving the puck rapidly around the corners in Union's zone. Steve Baker had the first of his many saves at 2:00 when Bob Miller·, a 1976 Olympian and former high school teammate of Mark Jenkins, fired a shot from the point. Union responded by\ bringing the rebouna down ice to the UNH zone and putting on a fury of pressure as shots zipped' past the left and right of the net. Achilles Rink erupted when at 7:00, Dutchmen· pressure paid off to put them ahead 1..0. On a powerplay, Kip Churchill dropped the puck off to Doug Feasby on the left wing. Feasby's shot was blocked but Marshall hustled in for the rebound and powered a shot which bounced over goaltender Dan Magnarelli for the score. Three minutes and 25 seconds later, Peter Crawford fed Feasby with a brilliant breakaway pass, Feasby skated to the right of the goalie and let loose a shot which caught the left side of the netting for a 2-0 lead. The fans, coming alive with their best performance of the season, took a page right out of the books of such hockey schools as Clarkson and RPI and exploded with chants of \Let's go UNH got its first conversion on an easy 4-3 powerplay goal at 15:14. Wor,king the puck around the corners, the Wildcats centered to Frank Roy who poked it in. Dominating the offense for the remainder of the period, UNH was denied by the Union defense and goalie Baker tirne and time again as the Dutchmen killed a 5- on-3 U NH powerplay to go into the locker rooms with a 3-1 lead. The Wildcats encountered some bad luck as the Dutchmen got a Dutchm~n Win With 4-1 few IJ.reaks in t!ie period. A UNH . 3rd Period' Blow-out shot hit the crossbar While several Union fans were given a fright shots on an open net were missed, at 1:16 when New· Hampshire's including one from less .than 5 . Ralph Cox, who starred with feet .out. Two :pucks went mto the Baker and Marshall in high net JUSt as whistles were blown so school, received a ,pass which he these 2 .goals were not allowed· steered in from right in. front of Apparently the ~eferees ruled that the net to knot the score at 4 Baker had control of th~ pucks apiece. But the. deadlock was before lJNH players dislodged .shortlived as the Dutchmen came back with pressure to score 4 ------·------------------------------~~--->unanswered goals. Dean Willers I . c~ e Ill. . ' e· n· of· . th ... e·.' w· ' . eek· ' got a solo goal at' 4:04 to put Union ahead for good. Based ori last Friday's game the Dutchmen was outstanding Defensively, the Dutchmen were • Maneuvering in front of the net, against nationally ranked throughout the hard fought sturdy throughout, using strong • Willers lifted a shot over the left University of New Hampshire, the contest, as they crushed their hack-checking, smart play in leg of UN H's Marks. At 9:43 weekly honor \Player of the highly rated opponents 8-4. (ront of the aet, and superb Judd centered a pass to Feasby Week\ can be given to no goaltending. Who sticked the puck up. Willers in~ividual performer. Therefo~e, Offensive.ly, Union displayed got his 3rd assist of the night on thi~ week we honor the entire fierce fore-checking, crisp passing, Best wishes to the team in the • the play. Marshall upped the lead Umon College HockeY_. _squad. and the ability to put the puck in future as they continue their to 7..4 at 12:23. Stealing a pass in The level of hockey exhibited by the net when the chances arose. c.enter ice, he scored a shot fmm Union, Union Let's go\ and jeers of \Sieve\ at the UN H goaltender. At 13.21 Grant Judd, assh;ted by Churchill aild Dean Willers, boosted Union to an unexpected 3-0 \lead Skating with the puck on the left wing, Judd looked for someone to center to, then took a shot from 15 feet which beat the goalie past his up- raised left arm. 2 UNH Goals Invalidated The Judd •. Churchill, Feasby line provided Union's fourth .score at 2:03 in the 2nd period to stretch the margin to 4-L Judd took a centering pass and steered it in between the legs of the goalie from right in the crease. Mark Evans came into the UN H nets at 9:58 to replace MagnarellL the left of the goalie, with Jenkins getting an assist on the play. Crawford and Jenkins set up Marshall's 7th goal in 2 .games as a tri-captain and his hat-ttick for the night at 17:57. Crawford cleared t<i Jenkins who skated · down the right lane and then hit .. Marshall with a picture-perfect feed in the slot. them. Strong pressure by New Hampshire allowed them to score twice before the end of the period. A shot by Joe Rando was screened and could not be stopped at 11:01. At 14:00, a shot from the right point was blocked but Joe Fontas was in the crease and followed up on the rebound. Victors J1:xuberant Achilles Rink fan~ went wild with chants of \We're Number One!!!\ as the Dutchmen notcl\ed a historic victory. . Balanced playing by the entire team and closed-door goaltending by Baker paced the victory. The entire squad played the, be::-t game of their. careers . in this impressive win. Coach Ned Harkness waved acknowledgements to the trowd in a show of appreciation of their support .. The Dutchmen, now 3-l against Division l teams, upped their record to 13-2-1 overall and to 6-1 in Division U when th~y beat divisional strength Salem State 6-5 last nigh.t in Massachusetts. Doug Feasby had a. hat-trick and scored the Winning goal. This Saturday night the Dutchmen faee Buffalo in a match where they will try to avenge their loss to the same team last month. Women's Basketball Season Begins by KATHY LETT Before Christmas, ten Union women committed themselves to long, daily practices and extra hours in the Gym and the Fieldhouse. Somehow, the pain and excuses of past seasons didn't seem quite so real now, because there's so much hope, so~ much desire to do well. A new coach was hired.; Jack Washington, who has experienced the game as a collegiate player and coach. We thought, ••ves, he'll make us work. We'll learn so much, try so hard .. It will be different this year.\ There is something that must be proven to this campus full of Could it be 2 points for Union? men's intramurals and varsity sports. The women here must establish for themselves a home from which to live and grow. For some, sports are a dimension of growth. We want acceptance here as women, as athletes, and we . want to share this dimension and the pride we derive from it with Union. The team and Coach Washington can live with defeat, but only when we have played to our capacity. We owe Union that much. The team isn't large, but hope peaked as the season drew nearer. We scrimmaged against Williams knowing that their team was quicker, more aggressive. But in the losing and the mistakes, we're better prepared for coming games. We faced RPI missing two forwards due to injury. We each tried to play a little longer, a little harder. R PI was neither fast nor strong, yet some of lis lost our heads or played stiffly under tension. After the loss of 52 to 41, the good moments and little victories came to mind. The mistakes we would correct ih practice. Out psyche still wasn't right as we met North Adams State. The good basketball we had drilled and worked to produce was not evident. As the scoreboard flashed tile final score of 70 to 22, tears of frustration and shame came to many of us. Memories from past seasons returned all too clearly. A complete and psyched Union squad faced St. Rose last Saturday. We pulled ahead playing our game. a running D UNION COLLEGE PUB RESTAURANT game. The mistakes and turnovers were many but. did not dampen our spirits. The final score: Union 62, St. Rose 39. We traveled to Utica Tuesday, our hope strengtheped by a victory. Thursday, Feb. ~. we battle RPI in the Fieldhouse; We appreciate the continued support of the Athletic Dept., Craig Carlson. Bob Ridings, and those who share in our struggle here. Special at The Yc• .. « D~UTCH HOLlOW 6CHENE.CTADY,fll.Y. ll308 I-1{)L LO\\l Ste:ak & Brew 1 Pitcher of Beer or Carafe of Wine per Person FRI. & SAT. NITE 5-8 P.M. .... , .................................... . Italian Buffet - 52.99 Every Thurs. AU You Can Eat Adn Se Accu~ the Ath based to and nc highligl:l~ Senate n Old C discussio remarks Bonner,· challenge of issues. The m Presidenl to be ab College~ Th4rsda) his ope1 traced 1 athletics salient e, the Tn Athletic Achilles the pre England Conferen The P the circt the Ath created a it faced referred 1 meeting Inquiries by Uniotl hockey, impressio of the P NESCAC (DivisiOJ inconsistt of NoESC hindered discussi01 The p specificall what \;::

I INSIDE:· ln~ellectual Life Hockey-_:Vie·ws Book Rook- Good G:ramniar or ~ .. . . . Good Taste? by k~nn!!th w.ilsker Are tvday's college students becoming incapable of writing and 'speaking effectively? The consensus between faculty and students seems to indicate that there is a lack of abi'lity on the part of the average Union College student to write and speak well. Many feel this probiem is serious enough to· warrant some kind of action. such as a required course for incoming fresllinet1 who need it. The Educational Policy Committee, which is chairpersoned by. Prof. Thitnm, suggested that there probably will be some kind of rcljuircd writing co1,1rse in the ncar future, possibly as near as next fall term. Prof. Thimm noted that there was much enthusiasm and interest given to this problem by many faculty members. as well as by President Bonner. What will this course entail? Unfortunately the EPC hasn't made any definite curriculum plans as of yet, but Prof. Thimm and · Dean Potts stressed the impertance · -of - the course involving the formation of not only good writing skills, but good analytical thinking. In other words, content as well as style should be stressed. They also felt that a se-ction on oral communication should be part of the course. Prof. Allen, who heads a subcommittee of the EPC SaHf that tnf COUrse WOUld possibly be a two- term course. Not every fresh~an. will ne~d such ·a. course. In this case there will be some type of criterion used so that students who show ;1bility in writing won't have to take the course. This might be done, as ProT. 'Thimm . suggested, by reaching a minimum level on the English Achievement Test. taken by incoming freshman. But this was only one of several suggestions. Who wiH administer these courses if they are instituted? Prof. Thimm noted that this ~ou~d be a- major problem. Many le~l It would be the responsibility of the English Department. However, Prof. Stevenson, chairperson of the English Department, noted that if they had to administer these courses without any extra faculty, all they could teach would be the required courses. Prof. Stevenson also brought out the point, as did others. that the English Department's faculty is no tnore trained in teaching students how to write than are faculty members of other departments on campus. Thus, new qualified faculty must be hired, or existing faculty members must be trained for this task. Prof. Thirnm did say that the EPC had discussed plans for th~ possibility of administering this course under a separate department,. but noted that this was only a suggestion and nothing was voted on either way. This in my mind would be a major consideration when setting up such a course. Another consideration would be to Important fot lhis course make sure of its Continued on Page 3 Where Do We Go From Here? by ira goodman closing of the buildings is Dean Brownlee's recent vandalism. Over the course of this decision to close the Humanities academic year, a number of the and_ Social Sciences buildings large faculty desks have been dunng the evening hours has stolen, walls have been kicked in, prompted resentment among and numerous graffiti slogans students that rely on these have been scrawled on the walls. buildings fot a quiet place to · Unfortunately, there are only a study. Although these buildings few infantile individuals are abused, this is in no way just responsible for these acts. They c~use for their closing, especially are causing the discomfort of smce there are equitable solutions those who make us~ of these to the problem. buildings. Those students who use '' vandalism the building for serious studying probably have nothing to do with The primary reason for th-e h • \'I t esc acts of vandalism. Continued on Page 4 \'•o \ ' f ,· . ' . . ' Vol. 2, No. 3 . February 2, 1977 The Sting Stagnation anonymous People at Union College have some of the worst cases of \inferiority complex;· Dean Brownlee recently said at a government meeting. We are known as a very good school by many \other very good schools.\ However, we are not a .. top\ school. look at us! We aspire to mediocrity in practically everything we do. Our sports activities are mediocre (the way we go at it, not the teams' records). We didn't make a comrn1tmcnt Jm' anything by not going Division I, a move that would have given us immediate positive publicity. We stay with the status quo and no one gets hurt, right? Wrong! If we don't /A/A/A/A/A/A/A./A£ by & ~ & A A A A A A c~ange thin~s here,. ~tagnation IA\11\VA\/A\IA\,A\IAVA\/A\ will drop us mto obhv10n \o//WW'it/'o//'o//'o//'W'o// hope j. fabian 'f!WWWYWW'fi/Y/ You can walk around ~arnpus A strange phenomenon is taking place at Union College. In the office of the registrar students are being billed for the price of a full course load term when they are not taking a full course load. There are three major rationales behind this policy; the first is a budgetary consideration. Tuition fees are calculated on the assumption that each student will pay a sum total of four year's tuition. If a student has received Advance - Placement credit or taken supplementary courses at another school and therefore desires not to pay for unnecessary credits, this student upsets the balance between estimated and actual revenues. A corollary . to this economic theory holds that if the policy were non-existent, tuition fees would rise to cover the imbalance. Secondly, Union College is not a part-time school. The kind of environment where some students are only .-taking one or two courses is not desired here; we want a 100 per cent commitment to being college students etc. The third and last justification is based on the assumption that the tuition charged of the student body is not merely for academic instruction; it is as well inclusive of all the resources available on campus. Hence, someone taking one or two courses rather than the minimum of three is getting more of a bargain than his or her fellow student. What this policy boils down to is simple: either you pay for courses you do not take, pay for courses you take but don't need, add a fourth course on to a preceding term and graduate early, or plead \hardship circumstances.\ · \Hardship circumstances\ (i.e. financial or medical) is a provision for students to appeal to the Dean of Faculty whose option it is to make an exception; . however. it is also a totally subJeCtive judgment having no clearly defined criteria.* The last, vital piece of information about this poliq Is that it was reviewed as recently as last summer by an administrative group on the request of Provost Enteman. The verdict of this group was that from an institutional standpoint, they saw no need for modification. I agree with them. From an institutional standpoint, they would be foolish to change a policy so obviously created for the benefit of the institution. In regard to the student however I disagree; as far as 1 am concerned this policy is blatantly unjust. My rationale is as follows: I) This is by no means a formal norm or standard for all other schools that leaves no room for change. No state school has a policy anything like this; nor does Colgate University, a school of comparable population, caliber of student and rank,. Colgate's catalogue reads, \Matriculated students who take less than a full term's load because of Advanced Placement or transfer credit, or extenuating circumstances, may be billed on the same basis as part-time students if approval is received in advance from the Dean of Students. Part-time students will be billed each term, by the term or by the course, whichever is less.\ 2) A school such as Union, supposedly striving for a truly good comprehensive education, contradicts itself by continuing such a policy. Students who might desire to test out curriculum not offered at Union will be discouraged from doing so, especially anyone with financial restrictions. 3) From whatever source a student's extra credits arise, they have already been paid for. Demanding students to pay for one or two courses again hardly seems fair; and for a student of limited means, this could mean postponing graduation in order to obtain the necessary funds. 4) I resent being charged for courses that I don't want or need. It should be my prerogative, in such a situation. to decide to complete my term with extra and hear everyone talking about the lack of intellectual stimulation (though probably not in those words). The Cabaret tried to fill this void, but they are not the ones to have to do it. Intellectual stimulation is supposed to come from the classroom: from the professor who is supposed to do something special. When was the last time anyone applauded a professor fol\ conducting an outstanding class? Well,. believe it or not, this does occur at schools of higher a~ademia. Okay, you professors out there: do your job. Go out and stimulate us so you won't have to hear us complain about the lack of it. \\ How do you rate the quality of a college? Do you look at its Biology Department and see that it has alienated the greatest amount of majors than other department by building an Ivory Castle and closing the door? Do you look at the fact that it is no longer getting a high percentage of pre-meds into U.S. medical schools? Do you look at its library that is pitiful. that it doesn't have any current books? Or do you look at its Arts Department within which a fine professor (Prof. Edgar Curtis) has been trying to have greatly needed changes implemented for the past 20 years and those changes are maybe .5 years away from oeing s~arted. .. __ -~ootjntJed on P~ie 2 credits or not. When a school 1s as expensive and as financially stable as Union, then what they are doing is more than unfair. it is selfish. 5) I think their reasoning is less than objective, and at times, ludicrous. Counting credits rather than the ideals involved in pursuing a further education may well be labeled \trading green stamps\ on the part of a student; ?ut in f~act. it seems the registrar 1s working along the same veins with one major difference the profit is on their side . *Each case is decidedon the mcnt of its individual claims, accordm!! to Associate Dean of 1-acult\. l>r. Potts. ·

¥~;~' INSIDE: I ' Intellectual Life Hockey Views Book Rook Good Grammar or Good Taste? by kenneth wilsker Are today's college students becoming incapable of writing and ·speaking eltectively? The consensus between faculty and students seems to indicate that there is a lack of ability on the part ol tl:le average Union College stHdent to write and speak well. Many feel this problem is serious enough to warrant some kind ol action, such as a required course lor incoming freshme11 who need it. I he Educational Policy Committee, which is chairpersoned hy Prot. I himm, suggested that there probably will be some kind of reljuired writing course in the near future, pos~ihl) as near as next tall term. Prof. Thimm noted that there was much enthusiasm and interest given to this problem by many faculty members, as well as b}' President Bonner. What will this course entail'' l!nfortunatelv the fPC hasn't made any -definite curriculum plans as ol yet. but Prof. Thimm and Dean Potts stressed the importance ol the course involving the formation of not only good writmg skills, but good analytical thinking. In other words, content as well as style should be stressed. They also felt that a section on oral communication should be part of the course. Prof. Allen, who heads a subcommittee of the EPC sauf that tnt course would possibly be a two- term course. Not every freshman will need such a course. In this case there will be some type of criterion used so that students who show ability in writing won't have to take the course. This might he done, as ProT. Thimm suggested, by reaching a IniniHlum level on the English Achievement Test taken by incoming freshman. But this was only one of several suggest ions. Wllo will administer these courses if they are instituted'? Prof. lhimm noted that this would he a major problem. Many feel 11 would be the responsibility ol the English Department. Howe\ er. Pro!. Stcvm~on chairperson of the English Department, noted that if they had to admini:,ter the:,c cour~es without any extra faculty, all they could teach would he the required courses. Prot. Stevenson also brought out the point, as did others, that the English Department's faculty is no more trained in teaching students how to write than are faculty members o_! other departments on campus. I hus. new qualified faculty must be hired, or existing faculty members must be trained for this task. Prof. Thimm did say that the EPC had discussed plans for the possibility of administering this course under a separate department, but noted that this was only a suggestion and nothing was voted on either way. This in my mind would be a major consideration when setting up such a course. Another important consideration for this course would he to make sure of its Continued on Page 3 Where Do We Go From Here? by ira goodman Dean Brownlee's recent decision to close the Humanities and. Social Sciences buildings dunng the evening hours has prompted resentment among students that rely on these buildings for a quiet place to study. Although these buildings are abused, this is in no way just c~use for their closing, especially smce there are equitable solutions to the problem. vandalism The primary reason for the closing ol the buildings is vandalism. Over the course of this academic year, a number of the large faculty desks have been stolen, walls have been kicked in, and numerous graffiti slogans have been scrawled on the walls. Unfortunately, there are only a few infantile individuals responsible for these acts. They are causing the discomfort of those who make use of these buildings. Those students who use the building for serious studying probably have nothing to do with these acts of vandalism. Continued on Page 4 Vol. 2, No.3 February 2, 1977 The Sting A strange phenomenon is taking place at Union College. In the office of the registrar students are being billed for the price of a full course load term when they are not taking a full course load. There are three major rationales behind this policy; the first is a budgetary consideration. Tuition fees arc calculated on the assumption that each student will pay a sum total of four year's tuition. If a student has received Advance Placement credit or taken supplementary courses at another school and therefore desires not to pay for unnecessary credits, this student upsets the balance between estimated and actual revenues. A corollary to this economic theory holds that if the policy were non-existent, tuition fees would rise to cover the imbalance. Secondly, Union College is not a part-time school. The kind of environment where some students are only taking one or two courses is not desired here; Wtl want a 100 per cent commitment to being college students etc. The third and last justification is based on the assumption that the tuition charged of the student body is not merely for academic instruction; it is as well inclusive of all the resources available on campus. Hence, someone taking one or two courses rather than the minimum of three is getting more of a bargain than his or her fellow student. What this policy boils down to is simple: either you pay for courses you do not take, pay for courses you take but don't need, add a fourth course on to a preceding term and graduate early, or plead \hardship circumstances.\ \Hardship circumstances\ (i.e. financial or medical) is a provision for students to appeal to the Dean of Faculty whose option it is to make an except1o11; however, it is also a totally subjective judgment having no clearly defined criteria.* The last. vital piece of inlormation about this pohc~ ~~ that it was reviewed as recently as last summer by an administrative group on the request of Provost Enteman. The verdict of this group was that from an institutional standpoint, they saw no need for modification. I agree with them. From an institutional standpoint, they would be foolish to change a policy so obviously created for the benefit of the institution. In regard to the student however I disagree; as far as I am concerned this policy is blatantly unjust. My rationale is as follows: I) Thi~ is by no means a formal norm or standard for all other schools that leaves no room for change. No state school has a policy anything like this; nor does Colgate University, a school of comparable population, caliber of student and rank. Colgate's catalogue reads, \Matriculated students who take less than a full term's load because of Advanced Placement or transfer credit, or extenuatin,g circumstances, may be billed on the same basis as part-time students if approval is received in advance from the Dean of Students. Part-time students will be billed each term, by the term or by the course, whichever is less.\ 2) A school such as Union, supposedly striving for a truly good comprehensive education, contradicts itself by continuing such a policy. Students who might desire to test out curriculum not offered at Union will be discouraged from doing so, especially anyone with financial restrict ions. 3) From whatever source a student's extra credits arise, they have already been paid for. Demanding students to pay for one or two courses again hardly seem~ fair; and lor a student of limited means, this could mean postponing graduation in order to ohtalfl the necessary funds. 4) I resent being charged for courses that I don't want <Jr need. It should he my prerogative, in such a siHtatlon, to decide to complete my term wtth extra Sta-nation anonymous People at Union College have some of the worst cases of \inferiority complex,\ Dean Brownlee recently said at a government meeting. We are known as a very good school by many \'other very good schools.\ However, we are not a \'top\ school. Look at us! We aspire to mediocrity 1n practically everything we do. Our sports activities are mediocre (the way we go at 1t. not the teams' records). We didn't make a commitment tor anything b) not going Division I. a move that would have given u~ immediate positive puhlic1ty. We stay with the status 4 uo and no one gets hurt, right'? Wrong! If we don't change things here, stagnation will drop us into oblivion. You can walk around campus and hear everyone talking about the lack of intellectual stimulatiOn (though probably not in those words). The Cabaret tried to fill this void, but they are not the ones to have to do it. Intellectual stimulation is supposed to come from the classroom: from the professor who is supposed to do something special. When was the last time anyone applauded a professor for conducting an outstanding class? Well, believe it or not, this does occur at schools of higher academia. Okay, you professors out there: do your job. Go out and stimulate us so you won't have to hear us complain about the lack of it. How do you rate the quality of a college'? Do you look at its Biology Department and see that it has alienated the greatest amount of majors than other department by building an Ivory Castle and closing the door? Do you look at the fact that it is no longer getting a high percentage of pre-meds into U.S. medical schools? Do you look at its library that is pitiful, that it doesn't have any current books? Or do you look at its Arts Department within which a fine professor (Prof. Edgar Curtis) has been trying to have greatly needed changes implemented for the past 20 years and those changes are maybe 5 years away from oemg started. . .. __ continued on Paie 2 credtts or not. When a school ts as expensive and as financiallv stable as Union. then what the~· are doing is more than unfair. it .-s selfish. 5) I think their reasoning is less than objective, and at times. ludicrous. Counting credtb rather than the ideals involved m pursuing a further education may well be labeled \trading green stamps\ on the part of a ~tudent; hut in !act, it seems the registrar 1s workmg along the same vem~ with one major d!lference the profit is on their stde. *Each case 1~ decided on the mcnt of It' H1div1dual clatm\, accorJtn~ to A~~oc1ate lkan of f at:Ltlt\. I >r Pott!'.. ·

Paae 2 . U:nion (:ollege Cantpus Voiee February l, 1977· Editorial onset pro~pective candidates buzzing around Intellectual life at Union COllege? campus deciding whether Union is the place where they want to spend their co liege career~.- those of us that are here are forced to evaluate for ourselves whether we indeed made the right choice. Seniors are in the process of writing theses that seem to sum up four years of work and aggravation. Looking toward their future with apprehension and relief, a commonly asked question concerns the quality of their past years at Union. We question whether what one leaves Union with is really what one wants from a college experience, or is there really more that one never stopped to look for. This condition does not pertain only to seniors, for •tis the season for transfer applications to be addressed and in the mail. A lot of the feelings that revolve around people transfering and proceeding for four years on a path that they perceive the college determining is that people perceive. themselves as basically powerless within the system. TherefCilre one submits to the whims of the system rather than finding support for new ideas and change. There is a relatively new group on campus this year: the PAG (Positive Action Group). The PAG are a group of concerned students who banded together to reinforce and support ideas that people had and wanted to see implemented at Union. They are a resource that is available for people who want to do something about life at Union and neither know how to go about it, nor who to go to. Like any resource available at Union, they are only as effective as the people who use them. Dean Mark Smith stated in the January 26 issue of Concordiensis, \The feelings of the students are too aggressive to be apathetic. People are under pressure not to do something. They must break through their super-seriousness of worrying about the future. Students must learn to live for now, by not doing so they are restricting their lives and wasting talent. What is really needed is a diver~ity of experience.\ The plight of the typical Union student seems to be a selfish, self-centered, self-serving orientation of how one can milk Union for all it is worth, while giving the least possible. After all, there really is not any reason to get involved, support a team effort, see a college production, or support a friend. Everyone has their own set of priorities to contend with. If this· philosophy is true, then we have truly created our own fates. If not, it is time that we all got out and dealt with union as a community' where there are opportunities for experience outside our own, and people outside ourselves. Comment: by Iori walter In the 1977 Union College catalogue; the goals for education are set out. ··union believes that every student should learn to gather and evaluate information, to think coherently, to write succinctly, to form aesthetic judgements, and to view a time and a place from a perspective of knowledge. These are the tools. The College hopes that in acquiring them each student will also discover a taste for the life of the mind, a respect for intellect, and a sense of the .range of human possibilities.\ There seems to be, however. a large gap between what the college believes the student should develop and what an actual Union College person does. It is this separation that has recently become a .prominent concern for parts of the factdty and some: of the students. no attendance It seems hard to believe that so few people were in attendance at the lecture by the Arab diplomat on Jan. l9. Concordy stated that \the most noteworthy occurrence of the lecture was the lack of interest . shown by the student body.\ . The International Relations.Club had publicized the appearance, but it .still could not draw more than 20 people. Most would agree that the topic of Arab oil and its pricing would .prove to be quite interesting to them, yet the turn-out at the lecture showed exactly the opposite. · The question seems to be: What has happened to intellectual life at Union College? Last fall, Prof. Byron Nichols was awarded a Mellon Grant ~o study the education which Union provides to its \most able\ students. He met with several groups and questioned them as to what they' felt was happening to them at Union College, both academically and intellectually. It Stagnant Scholars Continued from Page 1 We need drastic changes and it looks as if Dean Brownlee is going to be the one to \force the hand\ of the College. We have all admitted that our Comp. Ed. system doesn't work and by disallowing petitions for Comp. Ed. credit for non-Comp. Ed. courses, she has forced the school to come up with a new Comprehensive Education Syste01 that will follow the philosophy of a true liberal arts education. Our \inferiority complex\ might well be justified in many cases, but I now have the confidence that a true, honest attempt to help us will J:,e_ !T!_age •••••••••• How Union· Stops Change by richard a. siegel People at Union have developed some very unique strategies to not get anything done .. These ploys have been very effe¢tive in maintaining the status quo at the college. A few of the more interesting strategies are: 1) Write letters to Concordy. This is a very effective way of preventing people from having to talk directly to each other. Instead, one sits down alone with one's typewriter and writes out STAFF: brad barry, gary dryfoos, hope j. fabian, ira goodman, bill malnick, seth okun, jan rosker, Iori walter, ken wilsker PHOTOGRAPHY EDITOR: alan stern PHOTO STAFF: bill malniek, michelle cohen, hans heilman, joe tauber, jon tidings, alan stern EDITORJA.L BOARD: beth ann karlin, michael kramer, ruth rappapor.t, richard a. siegel one's ideas. The next week, someone is bound to object to something in the.letter, and write a reply. The advantage of this is that you never have to talk to the person with ·whom you are arguing. · This prevents certain catastropb1es from occuring: a) the issue might be resolved, b) you might learn something, and c) you might be shown wrong. . Another obvious example of letter writing is that it slows the · argum~nt down. A discussion that could be completed in a couple of hours cali be dragged out over 3-4 weeks. Each statement by each adversary is a week apart. The letters of Messrs. Gati, Nelson and Gado are a case in point. For those with poor memories, this discussion began around the 7th week of last teim with an article in the Campus Voice. Now, 3 months later, the discussion has just begun to heat up. Those concerned can happily look forward to at least 3 more weeks of uninterrupted ttplles. _po~r ned 2) Another\ effective method for not getting anything done is to blame Union•s faults on Ned Harkness: This is effective because no one ever sees him, and he has long since .given up defending himself.. Just the other day, 1 overheard some individuals high up in the administration blame :!:'led for all the faults in the Camp ·Ed. system, the deterioration of the Nott !Viemo11i~I. the inadequacy of tht:, was his hope to evaluate the curriculum here and find out if classes are inteHectually stimulating. The full results of his . grant will be published within the next 2 weeks. In general, Prof. Nichols found that the students he spoke to were not stimulated intellectually by their courses at Union. It Was felt that there is an emphasis on the rote memorization to perform in exams, rather than an understanding of concepts and ideas. The students . felt that professors are more interested in teaching rather than having their students learn. This philosophy causes intellectual apathy in the curriculum and probably seeps into the college community. intellectually dormant The classroom is not the only .place that is intellectually dormant. As can be seen by the International Relations Club lecture, not too many students find. these types of events stimulating. It could be possible that student life at Union does nothing to foster in~ellectual interest outside of the classroom. The dormatory setup promotes a social atmosphere, but does nothing to help intellectual involvement. Promoting activities within dorms that could work to establish a better intellec;tual atmosphere is a consideration for intereste~ RA's and dorm members who feel they. are frustrated intellectually. family discussions Another possible cause for intellectual apathy may be the home. environment in which the student is brought up. Prof. Nichols had questioned a few students as to their family discussions at home. Most discussions had nothing to do with intellectual issues. If this fact holds to the general population, it would definitely hinder the perspective of knowledge a .person comes to Union College with and should be reflected in their participation in related events . Another cause may be that intellectually fostering activities just do not exist on campus. lt is for this reason that Prof. Nichols, along with the Phi Beta Kappa society, set up the Intellectual Cabaret. The attendance at these sessions 'is usually very good. Perhaps with more opportunities such as this, the hibernating Continued on Page 3 library facilities, and the severity 5) Another administrative of this winter. Perhaps Mr. strategy is to constantly shuffle Harkness is wise not to see the jobs of. the various anybody. administrators. This, by 3) A similar strategy is to place definition, slows the possibility of the blame on the members of the getting things done, because the hockey team. This. is almost as administrators must have a period effective as chastising Ned of grace in which to become Harkness. The numerous familiar with such mundane members of the team enable us to detatls as the responsibilities and blame them for many simul- resources. Ms. Ambrusko a11d taneous occurrt!nces. At last Mr. Carlson have each had 3 count, the hockey team has been different jobs, some under the blamed for a) nationwide drop in same title, in the past 2 years. Ms. SA'f scores over the past 10 0 1 Flattery has had 2 jobs in· 15 years, b) the inadequate heating weeks. This strategy clearly in the dorms, and c) the recent oil prevents effective things from spills in the US Coastal waters. · getting done. administrators c:ommittees Just in case something actually When none of these strategies survives this route, the are successful, there is one final administration has devised very strategy implemented. The successful ways of blocking president, in the interests of change: \information gathering,\ appoints 4) Hire Union professors with a. committee to make a \thorough little or no administrative investigation\ of the matter. This experience to admini~trative committee takes ~-4 months to positions. In order for this to present its recommendations, make sense, the professor is effectively stalling any action·. The usually first asked to chair a recommendations-are then sent to search committee for someone to all areas of the college for debate. fill th~ post. After a year long This fu.rther stalls action. search,. the committee reports no Calendar committees have been one qualified is found or willing set tip on at least 3 different to be hired. Then, with great , occasions over the past 6 years. reluctance~ our own prof~ssor The hard work has produced no agrees to be temporarily change. The only action that is appointed to . the post in an taken is the writing of another \acting\ capacity. If they are letter which starts the cycle over fortunate· to .get through the first again. It's time 'to act on Union year with,out too much problems and get things <tone. controversy, they ate then appoiqted to the position. Tlie Tbe Campus Voice careers of Messrs. Enteman, announees that it will elect a Lichterman, Wylen, Potts and new editorial board on Ker~hner are cases. in point. This Monday,. Feb. 14. All interested please eotQ~ to the strat,egy effectively prevents new lnd n f c u idea.s: ~'ro .. m e.ntermg union. oor ·Q • .aramt ,~,;.·Jll 1 at 7:30 •. \· ~~\\<·'~·::~; · success. el!!pressed would no permanent College ac hoped tha studied th three year changes s even wh• continued All th• tentative nothing h yet within Now tl required considerat: whether 1 alternative and con students. doubts rel}'lired ' probfem. faculty of start· placi on paper~ content b1 with.in th courses, c write bett eut that i special att she shoul~ would ·OJ attention course? exploring where stu their indiv special a enable pre worry a students t' teach the and Allen for attitud faculty as also statec:i would be- oral corr existing f doing. so, writing effectively a One op possibilit) course. Tl is the one writing a into exist the EPC of a reql like to course. ..,.,. ·-··

Grammar Gonged! ·Continued .from Page l success. Prof. Thimrn also uninteresting, dry. and inhmt1le. eX;pressed that be personally 'fhe better alternative is to start to would not make this course a change faculty's attitudes ·toward permanent entity in Union mote and improved writing in College academics right away. He their courses. Student~ will get hoped that the program will be more out of a :paper when it is studied thoroughly after two or done in the context of a specific three years to see whether any course than a paper done in a changes should be made, and course simply <iesigned to teach even whether it should be them to write. As Prowost continued past that time period. Entetnan pointed out, students AU these plans are very will learn to behave in the course tentative at ' this stage, and and meet the .requirements, yet nothing has been decided upon they will get li'ttle out of the yet within the EPC. course. I do like the possibility of Now that the option of a a writing lab where students can required course is under come for- specia:l help. This, I feel, consideration, many question should ~e and is being examined whethet this iclea is the best more closely by Prof. Stevenson alternative to make better writers as to its viability. and communicators out of Pmf. Stevenson pointed out students. Provost Enteman that if a person can read and doubts strongly whether a write, then they will be able to re~n~d course · will solve the express themselves orally .. Giving problem. He stresses that the an oral ptesentation in class is faculty of Union College QJ.Jght.to often a very useful endeavor to start· placing greater importance the student who is bashful. Again, on papers that stress not only this can be done in the context of content but style. He feels that existing courses. A required within the context of specific writing course would waste the courses, one will learn how to , time. of professors and students, write better. But he. also points and -W!lste money. 1 hope this aut that if a student does need alternative will be reconsidered by special attention in writing, he or the EPC. she should be able to get it. How However, -if by some chance would one get such special they do not take the suggestion to attention Without a special .reconsider and implement such a course? Prof. Stevenson is program, then .at least it is my ex,ploring the idea of a writing lab hope that the program will he where students can go to with carefully watched studied, and re- their individual problems and get examined .after one or two years special attention. This would to see if it is effective. If it's not enable professors to not have to working out, I hope the EPC has worry about teaching their the courage to either drop or students _to write before they can change it. Hopefully this program teach the material. Profs. -Thimm W:ili not· folio~ the example of and Allen ;Nso expressed the need the Comp. Ed. program. for attitude changes on the part of faculty as a whole. PFof. Allen . In i ~ms $ Aw~ Ut-onw· Home. ~.Home . ' . . . ,,_ .. ·· ... · . :·-· \. .• . . . \ .. ~-~~ . ~··· ... ' .. ·. . .. . . .• . ~.· .•... :.. ;~y ~ ~n Alternative Viewpoint The most controveisial 1ssue plaguing . the Union College community is the debate concerning the Flying Dutchmen's entrance or refusal of entrance into Division l. Basically, the decision is of a technical nature; however, due to the multitude of varying attitudes both on and off campus, the situation has been blown out of proportion. Fundamentally, ~s in any debate, there are two approaches. The first position is that it would be beneficial to Union College if the Hockey team . went Division I. The second or contrary position is one of apprehension towards going Division I. As we have ascertained, there are a few reasons as to why there is an increasing amount of apprehension. Primarily, some students and faculty fear the possibility of a decrease in the intellectual capacity of the student body. The major cause of this sentiment is due to the fact that the present recruiting system at by beth ann karlin and brad barry Umon would undergo a drastic alteration. According to Craig Carlson, Union's present Athletic Director, there is no definite way of knowing how the new recruiting policy would affect admissions qualifications on the scholastic standings, and intellectual capabilities of the prospective students. According to the present NESCAC rulings on .recruiting policy, .we are not permitted to enter the homes, tl:te high schools, or the families of prospective athletes. However, going Div.ison I would enable Union College representatives to pursue these restrictions characQ!ristic of NESCAC. aspect ot the hoc.key situation is the manner in which many students react to these .athletically inclined students. After all, hockey players are people and students just like everyone else at this school, and it is high time that the campus community realizes this. Hockey Unifies What must also be considered are the other .purposes our exceptional hockey team serves. Union College, although a small community, has an extremely diversified populace. The coming of hockey served as a vehicle of unification. Friday night's game against UNH illustrated this unifying factor. If the final decision is that Union Hockey must remain a Division II sport, then what would be the ensuing result? Would we still support them to the present degree? also stated.his personal preference would be- to institute writing and oral communication into the existing freshman electives. By doing so, he feels content and writing will be combined effectively. Book Rook If Union College was permitted entrance into Division I, there would be a few underlying implications fo.r NESCAC. Question: Would NESCAC permit its schools to participate in future athletic events with Union? Unfortunately, at the present time, no definitive answer to this question can be ascertained. According to the Task Force report, there are a couple of NESCAC schools who will refuse to compete athletically with Union, in any sport, if Union is granted Division I status. However, why must this be? If it does not drastically affect NESCAC, then why should they be so obstinant? Unfortunately, in order to attain answers to these questions, we must wait until the next NESCAC conference. It is a fact that the hockey team is well supported here at Union; and if there is any doubt to this statement, then go to a game and experience the enthusiasm. Since the enthusiasm and support for the hockey team does existto the present elevated degree, what is the problem? Division I seems to be the logical alternative. author's opinion .. One option we now have is the possibility of a required writing course. The other option we have is the one of incorporating !fiore writing and oral communication into existing courses. I hope that the EPC realizes the implications of a required coUrse. I wouldn't like to see another required course. They are too· rigid, by rutla rappaport The beginning of every term is characterized by lines of students af the bookstore. We stand there with huge stacks of books and schpol supplies. Very few of us get out of there spending less than $40. I recently asked several students how l.nuch they spent for books this term. One English majQr spent close to $100, with \half of that g<lingto books for .a comp ed. A math major spent $60, a multi-national management major spent $45, and a physics major spent $31. When asked their · opinions on book prices, mo.st of those I spoke to agre~d that it was a lot of money, ~specially when we have to spend roughly that amount tliree times a year. A few science majors believed that the prices of their books were not outrageous because most are thick; hardco:vered textbooks which can often be used for several courses. _Practically every person l spoke to felt that the bookstore's prices were standard (although there are hardly a~y used books there.) They believed that professors often chose too many readings. Very ·often books are listed on the syllabus, but are neither relevant to the coursework, nor covered by exams. Sometimes professors will prescribe large books from which an article or two are asked to be read. what. you ~n do There are many courses I've taken for which I simply cannot afford the books. I've learned that there are ways to read the materials without having to pay a lot of money. First and foremost is to take advantage of both the campus and the Schenectady ·County libraries. It is worth ·a quick trip to the card catalogue to see if it is in the stacks. lf not,. the Inter- library loan system can get it for you, texts included. Another thing to do is to go in doubles or even triples with others in your classes. Make sure you find a reliable partner, an:d cut your hook prices in half. Ask your professor to put hobks and · articles on reserve: Players Are People Perhaps the most negat~e !his is especially helptul m sa vmg em bound collections of articles. Take advantage of Xerox machines. When you pre-register for a Cfimrse; ask your professor for a booklist. You may either have the book at home or else, during vacation you can take advantage of big city discount places such as Barnes arid Noble in New York City. One student enrolled in a comp ed and found a used text book there that cost $12 cheaper than a new copy from our bookstore. . Some professors can tell you who was in their previous classes and are still at school. You may approach those suggested and find they they are willing to sell the books. The Positive Action Group's student sale at the beginning ·of this term was a good start. There ought to be a continuation of these sales, and more students should take advantage of them. In my opinion, professors are trying to be helpful in requiring students to read through certain materials. I do feel that they should take a closet look into the amount of money that they ask students to spend. However, students tend to complain about book prices without considering the alternatives. Whether or not we are permitted entrance into Division I remains to be seen: so it is time for. the community .to rationally examine the situation, rather than letting emotions carry them away. If rational thinking is applied, then perhaps the l:tockey situation would not be such an emotional issue. Think about it! Continued from Page 2 Intellectual Attrition intellectual awaken. life here changes needed would There are a vast number of reasons why activities that finally are set up are hot attended. Publicity for many of these events leaves much to be de!;ired. If one hears about the event, there may be some other academic priority that is more important to them. If they have no school work to be done, some other extracurricular activity that requires attendance may be held at the same time. Finally, if their time is free, the c<;>ld weather this term may discourage any non-essential traveling from the dorm. Steps are being taken to provide a challenging atmosphere, the details of which can be read in Prof. Nichols' study. However. the curriculum is not the only a~a that needs to be changed. The social atmosphere at Union also needs to be further geared toward intelle<;;tual stimulation. The pos- sible causes for apathy should be studied and identified, and then something must be done to strengthen the intellectual life at Union College.

Page 4 _JI~ion College Campus Voice Roving ·Reporter by jan rosker and seth okun QUESTION: Do you feel that sororities should be established at Union. If yes, then what type of role should they play? Linda Rumbold \\:\' Freshman I don't think they should be started. Although they would contribute to social life .at ~he . same time they would segregate the school. Maybe fraternities should become co-ed instead. Cathy Bier - Sophomore For the sake Qf fairness, I think they should be. allowed. We have fraternities, and so it's only fair that we have sororities. Socially and charity-wise they can offer us many thingS. Mitch Basel - Junior Sororities seem to be an anachronistic institution for a campus such as Union's. Being co-ed for a relatively short time, I do not think it is wise to establish social institutions that may be potentially anti-social and dysfunctional to creating a unified women's position on campus. Andy Newman - Freshman If enough girls are interested, then sororities should be formed. I think the campus does benefit from fraternities, so if the sororities al'e .set up right, then they could be beneficial as well. Perhaps they could be associated with the fraternities in some way. Bruce Berger - Junior I definitely feel that they should be established. It's just as fair for women to have sororities as it is for men to have fraternities. Socially they should play the same role as fraternities and as many do they can sponsor charity events. Michele Mestichelli - Junior Yes, I think they should be established. Although it might cause cliques, I think it will bring the male-female social life at Union closer together. I think that if they are established they ~hould definitely have housing on campul>. Ho.odi Karlin - Senior Yes, I'm just dying to be a mascot for someone. Professor Huntley - Psychology If a congenial group wants to get together and people are going to benefit, then I can't see why anyone should make a fuss .. over it. It's a pleasant way to live for ·those who want such an arrangement and a pleasant way to learn from others. Chris Taylor - Senior Yes. If there is any interest then they certainly should be established. I don't see why their role Should be any different than that of a fraternity. Amy Juchatz - Junior I think fhat they should be initiated if there is enough enthusiasm for them. They would serve the same social role that fraternities play. They should offer a place where giris can feel free to get together. .:·\ ~-!ebruary 2, 1977 ·· ... -~---' ... - •' :·. ·Buildings Closed Continued from Page 1 The two effects of the buildings being closed are: some have found other places to study while others have managed 'to use the buildings anyway. Some climb through the windows, some find the doors unlocked, and most ignore the security guards' requests to leave. damage Unfortunately, this has caused quite a number of unpleasant situations. First, there are many outraged students (enough of a problem in itself). In addition to that, a window in SS 115 was recently. left wide open causing the radiator pipes to freeze and subsequently burst. This resulted in $1500 worth of damage. Dean Brownlee reaiized that the closing is extremely inconvenient to many. However she believes it is necessary in light of the vandalism. She sees much of the vandalism as a reflection of the lack of respect students have for the buildings. Dean Brownlee would like to see students take a more caring attitude toward these buildings. They are for academic use and not a playground or source for furniture. Brownlee would prefer to see the buildings open if it is at all feasible. Two weeks ago, she asked the Student Life Committee to deVise a workable prop·osal to enable the building to be reopened. As of yet no proposal has been submitted. She welcomes the thoughts of concerned individuals and any possible solutions to the dilemma. prQposal It is with this in mind that I offer the following: Reopen the buildings at night for student use. After evening classes are over, lock the d{)ors in each building except those facing library plaza. Station a student in the lobby at a desk. (This is already done in the Science and Engineering Building.} The 'guard' can check I.D.s, and make a periodic check of the building. At 3 a.m. (or any other agreeable time), this 'guard' should then lock all the windows and otherwise make sure the building is secure. 1he buildings can then he locked by Security. There should also be a guard on duty during the weekends. A grant In aid position could be established to fill the job or perhaps on.e of the students' who work for security could fill the position. The cost of the position would be compensat~d by the reduced vandalism and subsequent need for repairs. It is not important that this particular proposal is accepted. The maj.or point to be made i~ that an agreeable solution to th1~ problem be reached,. for hopefully the needs of students can be met along with the security and maintenance of_ c9l·lcg~ .facilities. .... ~ .. ... .. by Cb Earl 77). a campu Pub fo hour~ felt .tUJ newly the ha to the I went wasn't glarin!l mangl€ noticec moorir were I door p Afte room I that tt candy weeker service The pt Samar: the w p.ositio destro juvenil' ''Stude our activiti \Wh The qt mornin ···TQ::Jht ''1 w Con:t:-1: cO;tltifi .. Urtio:tt inf{!)fJl1 ;;·would, . ,) t!l'f.dfS:'' ··l~IYJicy· Jarrth ·:Cotnf~ ''Firs:

Page 4 Roving Reporter by jan rosker and seth okun QUESTION.~ Do you feel that sororities should be established at Union. If yes, then what type of role should they play? Linda Rumbold -:- Freshman l don't think they should be started. Although they would contribute to social life at the same time they would segregate the school. Maybe fraternities should become co-ed instead. Cathy Bier - Sophomore for the sake of fairness, I think they should IX! allowed. We have fraternities, and so it's only fair that we have sororities. Socially and charity-wise they can offer us many things. Mitch Basel - Junior Sororities seem to be an anachronistic institution for a campus such as Union's. Being co-ed for a relatively short time, I do not think it is wise to establish social institutions that may be potentially anti-social and dysfunctional to creating a unified women's position on campus. Andy Newman - Freshman If enough girls are interested, then sororities should be formed. I think the campus does benefit from fraternities, so if the sororities are set up right, then they could be beneficial as well. Perhaps they could be associated with the fraternities in some way. Bruce Berger - Junior I definitely feel that they should be established. It's just as fair for women to have sororities as it is for men to have fraternities. Socially they should play the same role as fraternities and as many do they can sponsor charity events. Michele Mestichelii - Junior Yes, I thmk they should be established. Although it might cause cliques. I think it will bring the male-female social life at t·nJOn closer together. I think that if they arc established they 'hould definitely have housing on <:ampu~. ~nion College Campus Voice Hoodi Karlin - Senior Yes, I'm just dying to be a mascot for someone. Professor Huntley - Psychology If a congenial group wants to get togetller and people are going ta benefit, then I can't sec why anyane should make a fuss over it. tt's a pleasant way to live for those who want such an arrangement and a pleasant way to learn from others. Chris Taylor - Senior Yes. If there is any interest then they certainly should be established. I don't see why their role should be any different than that ol a fraternity, Amy Juchatz - Junior I think that they should be initiated if there is enough enthusiasm for them. They would serve the same social role that fraternities play. They should offer a place where girls can feel free to get together. Buildings Closed Continued from Page 1 The two effects of the buildings being closed are: some have found other places to study while others have managed to use the buildings anyway. Some climb through the windows. some find the doors unlocked, and most ignore the security guards' requests to leave. damage Unfortunately, this has caused quit~! a number of unpleasant situations. First, there are many outraged students (enough of a problem in itself). In addition to that, a window in SS 115 was recently left wide open causing the radiator pipes to freeze and subsequently burst. This resulted in $1500 worth of damage. reopened. As of yet no proposal has been submitted. She welcomes the thoughts of concerned individuals and any possible solutions to the dilemma. proposal It is with this in mind that I offer the following: Reopen the buildings at night for student use. After evening classes are over. lock the doors in each building except those facing library plaza. Station a student in the lobby at a desk. (This is already done in the Science and Engineering Building.) The 'guard' can check l.D.s, and make a periodic check of the building. At 3 a.m. (or any other agreeable time), this 'guard' should then lock all the windows and otherwise make sure the building is secure. The buildings Dean Brownlee realized that can then be locked by Security. the closing is extremely There should also be a guard on inconvenient to many. However duty during the weekends. she believes it is necessary in light A grant In aid position could of the vandalism. She sees much be established to fill the job or ol the vandalism as a reflection of perhaps one of the students· who the lack of respect students have work for security could fill the lor the buildings. Dean Brownlee position. The cost of the position would like to see students take a would be compensated by the more caring attitude toward these reduced van d a I ism and buildings. They are for academic subsequent need for repairs. use and not a playground or It is not important that this source for furniture. particular proposal is accepted. Brownlee would prefer to see ·1 he major point to be made i~ the buildings open il it is at all that an agreeable solution to th•~ lea~tble. I wo weeks ago. she problem be reached. for hopefully a~ked the Student Life Committee the needs of students can he met to devise a workahle prop·osal to along wtth the security and enable the building to be mamtcnance of college lacthtle~. hy n ·Lar 77). ~ carnpt Pub f( hour\ fcl·t n: newly the h< to the I went wasn't glarin1 mangl notice• moon: were door 1 Aft~ room that tl candy weeke1 service The pi Samar the '-~ positic destrc juvenil .. Stud~ our activit \Wr The q mornir everyt :hope' joiu n deJH To'* ill lw Prof. direct have. reeenl Net so enou~ dece1 state1 thoro upper mys'( disoq thingE dep,ar O?.eml; once old b; Prof. adeqtJ issue his Prail alliter signifi stilt b the se memt infant have I past; fired stud~ aliena battle better elar To th I \ Conc1 con tin Union inforn would errors Policy Janu C()llCC firs not gc 7

Volume 106, No. 13 February 9, 1977 JJ Seniors Must Take CompEds The Educational Policy Committee, chaifed bY Professor AI Thimm, of the Institute of Administration and Management, is responsible for advising implementing curricular change at Union. Last Friday, the committee met in Dean Brownlee's office Where it dealt with a motion concerning the controversial Comprehensive Education Administrators Bonner and Enteman at yesterday's spec~al informal Senate meeting. -Program at Union. Cammy Lapetina, student member of the committee, proposed that Comp. Ed. requirements for all Seniors be suspended. Reasons given on behalf of this proposal were numerous, one, the Comp. Ed. program is a recognized failure, two, no disputed questions were being given in the spring;courses given in the program were treated lightly by both student and faculty. Student sentiment, solidly against Comp. Eds. mandated the passage of the motion, and with impending revisions in the system,this Senior class was only being punished by having to follow its requirements. Senate Convenes in Special.Meeting The faculty argued agamst the motion. Among the reasons given were that although the Comp. Ed. program had flaws, it was not a failure and also those in the Senior class that had fttlfilled their Comp. Ed. requirements would fed cheated that certain classmates would not have to fulfill the program•s requirements. Accusations that the Report of the Athletic Task Force was based to<,> much on assl!mptions and not enough on fact highlighted the informal College Senate meeting_ held yesterday in Old Chapel. In a·n open discussion following s()me brief remarks by President Thomas Bonner, both .students and faculty challenged the Report on a Sel'ies of issues. The tneeting was held because President Bonnet was not going to be able to attend the official College Senate meeting at 4:30 on ThtJrsday in the Old Chapel. tn his opening statement. --Bonner traced the recent history ·Of athletics at Union including such salient events as the meetings of the Trustee Committee on Athletic Facilities, the gift of the Achilles Rink, and meetings of the presidents of the New England Small College Athletic Conference(N ESCAC). The President also described the circumstances under which the Athletic Tak Force was created and some of the problems it faced. Bortner specifically referred to last April's NESCAC meeting where, in respons~ to Inquiries about a possible move by Union to Division 1 status in hockey, the President got the impression that it was the \feeling of the Presidents (of the other NESCAC schools) that that (Division I hockey) was inconsistent\ with the philosc;>phy of N:ESCAC. This; Bonner felt, hindered the iask Force's discussion. The .purpose of the meeting specifically, was to determine what \~ppropriate procedures should l;le adopted to insure a fair and thorough consideration of various points of view on the issues.\ In response to 'this, Bonner stated that, in his opi11ion, the section on facilities shoula be referred .to both the Planning and Pri<,>rities Committee, and the Campus .Planning CormnittQe; the section Of\ Physical Edueation and -~int'riimurals shoud be sent to the. Athletic Oepartmen~ for a feasibility ~tudy and th¢ section on Women'~ Athletics should go to Planning and Priorities. ln speaking of the section on Women's Athletics, the President said that it .. may be the most important\ section. Following these comments, the discussion turned to· the first section of the Task Force Report, namely _ the one concerning NESCAC and Division 1. It was the general feeling that debate on -this issue should remain in the Senate, but that the Report left 01any questions unanswered. Presiden~ Bonner responded to a series of questions concerning the issues at hand. Having given the chair to Provost WiiJard Entem~q. mc;>st of the frc~idenCs answers reflected his pers<>nal opiniOn. He re-emphasi~ed that lie would suppoti the positie>rt. taken by the campus community. Acce>rding to Bonner there would be no ~cheduling diffi~ulties for Union's otber Athletic teams if the hockey team would generate significantly additional income from alumni and other \friends .. as well as much more publicity from the media. These claims were, however, question()d by some of the senators present. The President also believes that Union should up-grade its overall level of athletics and in .particular should form a J.V. Rockey team. Despite the criticism directed at the Task Force's performance. many individuals felt that the Report had done a commendable job. They argued ~hat the Report's recon:lm~ndatiops should be adhered to and that the issue should be immediately resolved. The final resolution of the meeting was that all the members of the Task Force who are still on campus will be invited, to the Thursday meeting to answer questions and provide informaton. At that meeting all the problems will hopefully be cleared up so that the issue can be sent back to the divisions and the Student Forum and finally· be resolved in the March meeting of the Senate. The two lone students present, Ms. t.apetin~t and Ronni Bergman were alone in voting for the motions. AU faculty and administration present were opposed to the ·motion. Despite this vote, which on the surface would seem to uphold the merits of the Comp. Ed. system, the committee is working toward devising a new General Education system. As soon as a new proposal is drawn up, it will be put forth for campus feedback and ultimately voted on by the All College Senate. ' Effeets of the Energy Crisis at Union by ED PARKOFF Although the thermostats have never been lower, Union College seems to have been spared the full impact of the fuel crisis. According to Walter Stone, director of the- physical plant, only four buildings on the campus use nat u ra l gas for heating-Hickock and Webster. Houses, the Day Care Center, and the physical plant building. These buildings are in no danger of having their gas turned off at the present time. A letter has been sent to all major users of natural gas supplied by the Niagara Mohawk Power Co. stating that customers who use gas on1y for heating, where persons reside on a permanent or temporary basis, ar-e exc.J uded from any curtailment initiated thus far to conserve natural gas. The price of the fuel, though, has gone up appreciably, and the utility is charging increased rates for natural gas used in excess of 80 percent of the price levied on the gas used during the corresponding period in 1976. The price of the other fuels used to heat and light the liuildings on campus also has been increased. Mr. Stone <juoted prices of heating oil, showing approximately a fifteen percent jump over last year and a thirty- seven percent increase in electricity. These increase9 costs of fuel translates into an $80.,.000 increase in the cost of energy used to heat and light the campus. Mr. Stone said that lighting levels, wherever practical, had been reduced. Several thousand dollars, furthermore, have been spent in replacing worn heating equipment. This work has increased the efficiency of the equipment allowing the school to more heat or light out of each dollar spent. This work has helped, but this winter has had far more heating-degree days thus far than last year. Mr. Stone felt that an increased a ware ness on the part of the college community about the effects and costs of the energy crisis can help to reduce the amount of fuel used to heat and light the campus. Union students opting for an alternate source of heating comfort.

~ ···\'-\\'\' ~;~,: ..., Volume 106, No. 13 February 9, 1977 Seniors Must Take CompEds The Educational Policy Committee, chaired by Professor AI Thimm, of the Institute of Administration and Management, is responsible for advising implementing curricular change at Union. Last Friday, the committee met in Dean Brownlee's office where it dealt with a motion concerning the controversial Comprehensive Education Administrators Bonner and Enteman at yesterday's special informal Senate meeting. Program at Union. Cammy Lapetina, student member of the committee, proposed that Comp. Ed. requirements for all Senion be suspended. Reasons given on behalf of this proposal were numerous, one, the Comp. Ed. program is a recognized failure, two, no disputed questions were being given in the spring;courses given in the program were treated lightly by both student and faculty. Student sentiment, solidly against Comp. Eds. mandated the passage of the motion, and with impending revisiOns in the system,this Senior class was only being punished by having to follow its requirements. Senate Convenes • Ill Special Meeting The faculty argued agamst the motion. Among the reasons given were that although the Comp. Ed. program had flaws, it was not a failme and also those in the Senior class that had fulfilled their Comp. Ed. requirements would feel cheated that certain classmates would not have to fulfill the program·s requirements. Accusatiens that the Report of the Athletic Task force was based too much on assumptions and not enough on fact highlighted the informal College Senate meeting held yesterday in Old Chapel. In an open discussion following some brief remarks by President Thomas Bonner, both students and faculty challenged the Report on a series of issues. The meeting was held because President Bonner was not going to be able to attend the official College Senate meeting at 4:30 on Thursday in the Old Chapel. ln his opening statement Bonner traced the recent history of athletics at Union including such salient events as the meetings of the Trustee Committee on Athletic Facilities, the gift of the Achilles Rink, and meetings of the presidents of the New England Small College Athletic Conference(N ESC A C). The President also described the circumstances under which the Athletic Tak Force was created and some of the problems it faced. Bonner specifically referred to last April's NESCAC meeting where, in response to inquiries about a possible move by Union to Division I status in hockey, the President got the impression that it was the \feeling of the Presidents (of the other NESCAC schools} that that (Division I hocke:y) was inconsistent\ with the philosophy of NESCAC. This, Bonner felt, hindered the Task Force's discussion. The purpose of the meeting specifically, was to determine what \appropriate procedures • Bogota .Concordy Interview Alice in Unionland Arts . Editorials Commentary Classifieds . sports p.S pp. 6-7 pp .. 8 .. 9 P• lO pp. 12·43 pp. 14-16 should be adopted to insure a fair and thorough consideration of various points of view on the issues.\ In response to ·this, Bonner stated that, in his opinion, the section on facilities should be referred to both the Planning and Priorities Committee, and the Campus Planning Committee; the section on Physical Education and intramurals shoud be sent to the Athletic Department for a feasibility study and the section on Women's Athletics should go to Planning and Priorities. In speaking of the section on Women's Athletics, the President said that it \may be the most important'' section. Following these comments, the discussion turned to the first section of the Task Force Report, namely . the one concerning NESCAC and Division I. It was the general feeling that debate on this issue should remain in the Senate, but that the Report left many questions unanswered. President Bonner responded to a series of questions concerning the issues at hand. Having given the chair to Provost Willard Enteman, m()st of the President's answers reflected his personal opinion. He re-emphasiled that he would support the position taken by the campus community. According to Bonner there would be no scheduling difficulties for Union's other Athletic teams if the hockey team would generate significantly additional income from alumni and other \friends\ as well as much more publicity from the media. These claims were, however, questioned by some of the senators present. The President also believes that Union should up-grade its overall level of athletics and in particular should form a J.V. Hockey team. Despite the criticism directed at the Task Force's performance, many individuals felt that the Report had done a commendable job. They argued that the Report's recommendations should be adhered to and that the issue should be immediately resolved. The final resolution of the meeting was that all the members of the Task Force who are still on campus will be invited to the Thursday meeting to answer questions and provide informaton. At that meeting all the problems will hopefully be cleared up se that the issue can be sent back to the divisions and the Student Forum and finally be resolved in the March meeting of the Senate. The two lone students present, Ms. Lapetina and · R<lnni Bergman were alone in votin,g for the motions. All faculty and admiBistration present were opposed to the motion. Despite this vote, which on the surface would seem to uphold the merits of the Comp. Ed. system, the committee is working to\Vard devising a new General Education system. As soon as a new proposal is drawn up, it will be put forth for campus feedback and ultimately voted on by the All College Senate. Effects of the Energy Crisis at Union by ED PARKOFF Although the thermostats have never been lower, Union College seems to have been spared the full impact of the fuel crisis. According to Walter Stone, director of the physical plant, only four buildings on the campus use natural gas for heating Hickock and Webster Houses, the Day Care Center, and the physical plant building. These buildings are in no danger of having their gas turned off at the present time. A letter has been sent to all major users of natural gas supplied by the Niagara Mohawk Power Co. stating that customers who use gas only for heating, where persons reside on a permanent or temporary basis, are excluded from any curtailment initiated thus far to conserve natural gas. I he price of the fuel, though. has gone up appn.:ciahly, and the utility is charging increased rates lor natural gas used in excess of 80 percent of the price levied on the gas used during the corresponding period in 1976 . I he price of the other I uels used to heat and light the buildings on campus also has been increased. Mr. Stone quoted prices of heating oil, showing approximately a fifteen percent jump over last year and a thirty- seven percent increase in electricity. These increaseq costs of fuel translates into an $80,000 increase in the cost of energy used to heat and light the campus. Mr. Stone said that lighting levels, wherever practical, had been reduced. Several thousand dollars, furthermore, have been spent in replacing worn heating equipment. This work has increased the efficiency of the equipment allowing the school to _get. more heat or light out of each dollar spent. fhis work has helped, but this winter has had far more heating-degree days thus far than last year. Mr. Stone felt that an increased awareness on the part of the college community about the effects and costs of the energy crisis can help to reduce the amount of fuel used to heat and light the campus. . Union students opting for an alternate source of heating comfort. =

CONCORDIENSIS, Feb. 9, 1977 Stop Sign Stolen \Return the sign and·, once it's back, leave it there.\ Thus spoke Director of Security, Cliff Wood, concerning a particular traffic sign on ~he UColl campus. This sign (a stop sign) is supposed to be located on the alley-way leading out of Old Gym Hairs parking lot ... a blind ~Hey .. Wood calls this spot one of the most dang~::rous areas on the campus and states that unless something is done sorrteone's going to get killed there. Currently, however, there is no sign. It has been repeatedly stolen this term; in Wood's words, \more times than a cod has livers.\ More specifically, he notes that the sign has been taken 'at least 5 times this term, \usually after · hockey games or other weekend activities.\ What red octagonal signis missing from this picture? . W)lat is part-icularly dangerous about this case is that it is impossible to see traffic when coming oqt of the parking lot because of the stone · wall surrounding· Perkins Gardens. Although Wood views the wall as bei'ng .mote dangerous than attractive, be sees. little. chance of it being torn cJown. The. only way to maintain .safety is to inai.ntain a stop .sign thtre; '' unfortu~~tely, vandals. have bee~;~: making this a formidable tas~ fo.r Se~ur'ity: Union Looks at its Past Life . ' . . . . .. .-· . compiled by KEN STONE Schenectady's title as \Gateway to the West\ (sick!) The grey stucco walls amt\graceful white arches of tile buildings _were also part of the Ramee design. J- described as \the only buildil\g. 1 · spotHgbt. Their sensuous curves that looks like a poor cousin:.~ .. a were . phqtographed so that re- railroad station on any Ametilc:an examination Wo!lld be feasible. campus,\ \the greatest misforttt·ne The purpose ·of this was to en.sure. to the Ramee Plan,\ and \a that lJil Jl;lckson girls. .,.ave bothersome aberration of our ·_.excellent·. ·posture becaQse they grandfathers\ . (see pictur.e!). ·represent the University. Director: Woo4 cannot cite a plntieular 'reas~·n for this- 'Qr .. any of the senseless vandalism which have ·recently been occuring on campus. Explaining,. \vandalism (:oncordiensis, February 21, 1964... On February 25, 1964, Union College honored Jacques Ramee, the French architect who designed our campus in 1813. ihe underlying scheme. of an ''open quadrangle'' or, ''U\ shaped design wa.s to represent The first building to be completed was South College in 18 14. Ramee's plan for a long rotunda was replaced by .. old Washburn Hall which< has been Ramee's \Grand Design\ Ramee·s plan was not completely forsaken, however, for the ,pr,esent design of the Libniry, Social Sciences, and H u ma.,.·lt ie~ buildings are representative <Jf the original Ramee plan. * * * * Co~eordiensis, October 12,. 1962 .... In this issue of the paJ)er there appeared the reprint ·O:f a. letter written to the editor <>f the Tufts. Weekly newspaper. T:he letter protested the manner In which Jackson University {the female half of Tufts University) performed a certain examination of its Freshmen and Sophrnores~ This examination consisted of the females having to strip off their clothes and be examined Url:der * * * * Co~£ordiensis, October · ~6, 1962... A group of Rochester stud~nts stole on campus last Thursday night and painted the Idol. However; it was the w.rong Idol. Chester A. Arthur received his first coat of blazing yellow, while oft-painted Idol, remained a drab mixture of faded r.ed and green. ' is t:he biggest security: pr<jblem at this school,\ Wood · told Concordy that a $100 fine will be imposed on anyone wither, found in possession of any traffic signs or· ·found in ttie. act of· stealing one.· The cost to replace the signs taken . so far has already amounled to over $100. Wood asks that anyone who wishes to report any vandalism or knows the whereabouts of a.ny of the signs to pleal\e contact him at the Security Office. Campus Kits by Makim Mad & Green What Could Be More Trivial? Build your own campus from these prefab- ricated plaster bqard kits, now in use in over 100 colleges and universities throughout the country. by HELENE ZATZ It takes a lot to get a whole college campus to get together on the phone for two hours. Whatever it is, it must be something t reme nd o us.l y interesting to be worth puttin,g two hours aside every week for five weeks. It must have some merit, but even more important, it would have to be something pleasurable that brings people together. I know what you're thinking of, but I had something else in mind. We call it Trivia, and it's one Union College innovation that has gotten progressively better as the years have gone on. If there is ever a Martian invasion of Schenectady in the near future, I pray the ship will land on a floor in Fox (or Davidson, South, North, etc., for that matter) on a Wednesday night at 10:00. What they will examine will surely send them back to their planet at top speed. The human race, and anyone else loose that night, will be sprawled across the floor with the telephone receivers in their hands, screaming names and statements at the top of their lungs and quickly hanging up. What will Psychology majors - On Thursday, Feb. lOth at 4:00 p.m. there will be a · general meeting in room 113 in the Psychology building. Also, next Wednesday, February 16th at 4:00 p.m. in Strauss Lounge there will be a panel discussion on careers with a dinical psychologist, .a counselor in private practice, a rehabilitation counselor, and a Social Worker. It should prove to be informative for those curious about their future after l'nion. seem ever sillier to those extra- terrestial creatures will be that the people seem to be enjoying themselves. They will be yelling · and laughing straight through the music and applauding furiously when the miracle of getting through with a right answer occurs. A great feeling of satisfaction will appear on the face of the victorious participant, a look expressing the skill, knowledge and sheer luck that was necessary to secure an answer for your team just .. once in a hundred times. Tricks of the Trade There are a few tips that one must know in order to play the game of ·Trivia without cracking up by ll p.m. Ten of these are: 1) Keep trying. Be persistant even when you don't know the an~wer because if you do hear \WRUC\ from the other end of the line, enlighf.enment may come. to you (if not, somebody might have just found the answer). 2) When sure, give only last names. First names Will usually get you into trouble. WRUC mlght hang up in the middle of your \Rob-:- when the guy's real name is John. 3) Keep as many books in the mtddle of the hall a:> you can possibly get a hold of. Some good ones to keep in mind are the Gllinness Book of Records, The Filmgoer's Companion, the World Almanac and old copies of the Union catalogues. 4) Get someone with nimble fingers and a good grasp of spelling (the type who can find a word in the dictionary before you've finished the last syllable) to be your \Reference Material Informant.\ Too many people looking up answers usually leads to confusion. 5) Dial 6-1-5 as the questioD is being asked. The only thing y<>u will have to do from there is dial a I or a 4 when the questiC.n is finished. 6) Get the glue off your ear after you've finished answering tlu question. Staying on the ·pboae only leads to jamming. If y~u're that interested in cheating, y~uVe lost the whole meaning of the game. The rewards at ·the e11:d aren't worth it. 7) In desperation, listen carefully to the music. Quite often, t.here are good clues in .the intermit:tent music. Some are obvious; ot:hers require some thinking. 8) If you are truly stuck, glve an answer that is abs<>lCitely ridiculous, wait for a laagh and get off the phone. The perso~ on the other end will pl'obal> ly appreciate it and by this tillleo ~ou . may really need the release; 9) There is no way you can make a fool out ot yot.JrselL \Your answer is probably not as stuJ>id as your neighbor's, althou.gh he'll· tell you he knew all the ttme{after the correct response is give~). 10) Have fun and don't ta.ke it seriously. Save your neur<Jses for when you are using the less important side of your braln, the side that is related to the knowledge of Einstein's theo-ry of relativity, or something as t rlvial as that. Finally, thank you Neil Adam Schwartz, Dan Rosenbaum., Bill Moss and everyone else responsible at R U C for givl:11g us Trivia five Wednesdays from l0- 12 p.m. Your hard work. has rea'lly paid off. Now we arc a.Jl aware of the fact that 1Jtotnas Crapper invented the toilet boV<l, and you never know wher. ,that kind of information can cor11e up (or down) in a conversation. 'Full line of 1874 model T's that never sold. . ' Dormitories- __ $200,000 without doors for stalls ___ $190,000 without stalls $180,000 Spedal sale on Genuine Train Station Libra(ies in contemporary styling. Only 100 left, so act Immediately. In genuine Gra~d Rapids Chippendale Venee.r- Only $1,000,000. SUPER 1 c SALE Buy Library immediately and get with it 2 rnatching \satelltt~ type\ bttildings ·at 1 c ext\a. · SPECIAL KIT OFF!R. With the pmchase of an entire 1871- model T campus. kit \\e will include frre land~capirt)!, and sutf.icierrt Stucco 'to cover up all the old ugly brick buildin~~ you mi~ht .,till have around· \\\ c wiH also rcmfJvt.: any strange St~miro1md b: itdit1r~s that mit~ht obsct1re the view of c)nr fortrt!ises. AI: Profes submitted meeting ! status rep Education Education (EPC). Allen, v subcommi the ~deas · been aisct solv.e the presented co•:rrp~eh program. two condi generally s campus· n: Ed·sysfetn that· there tQ · ~ilie · e: alternative free: electi1 would' aev ver:~io~ ... -.< . e<tuca.tion~ gq()Q··.~:V .-sifl).ple, . di! ~~~P:g. ~:xi · .der>!llitW.~n , (l.i~tribyt-i{ll . - .AJ.lell; .~c · d~sqriJ>~1,1g, EP.C.,has, .. tbe, .. propos , weeks, ,left. fact(~ty .t• subcommit criticisms J Ed ·systbm then ·will, 1 EPC their · s0lution a will send i1 Senate by I and', hoi during the! In its subcomm discussing to the pr under con! within alte calls. for a expo.s.i·tor communica upperclass ' fro~ 5maj< The Fre: be limited active invol the' course l reading, a There are Spa Leonard r played t:he Vulcan \Mr. \Star. Trek;' Feb .. ·15, Memorial C to th~{ p~li p.m. The45-yel 3 . successive for his co-st1 the pointy-,e of the Stars th~ demi~e m~v_e~· to·\~ ·'follo:Wing witli' that pr< of Jtis ciJntfa in.' '. \Three. l

€0NCORDIENSJS, Feb~ 9, 1977 Stop Sign Stol~n \Return the sign and, once it's sign. It has been repeatedly stolen back, leave it there.\ Thus spoke this term; in Wood's words, Director of Security, Cliff Wood, \more times than a cod has concerrning a particular trraffic livers.\ More specifically, he notes sign on the UCoU campus. that the sign has been ta~en at least 5 times this term, \usually This. sign (a stop sign) .is after hockey games or other supposed to be located on the weekend activities.\ alley-way leading opt of Old Gym . . . Hall's parking lot ... a blind alley. .. What 1~ partlcul~rly dang~ro~s Wood calls this spot one of the about th1s case 1s that 1t 1s most dangerous areas on the impossible to see traffic when campus and states that unless coming out of the pa.rki~g lot something is done someone's because of the stone wall going to get killed there. surrounding Perkins Gardens. What red octagonal sign is missing from this picture? Currently, however, there is no Although Wood views the wall as being mote dangerous than attractive, he sees.litde chance of Union Looks at its Past Life it being tom <.town. The. only way to maintain safety js to ma~litain a stop sign there; 'imfortU9~~ely, vandals, have been making ,this a fQrrnidable .task fo.t Security: compiled by KEN STONE Coneordiensis, February 21, 1964... On February 25, 1964, Union Col'll:ge honored Jacques Ramee, the French architect who designed our campus in 1813. The undedying scheme of an \open· quadrangle\ or, .. U\ shaped design was to represent Schenectady's title as \Gateway to the West\ (sick!) The grey stucco walls amrgraceful white arches of the buildings .were also part of the Ramee design. The first building to be completed was South College in 1814. Ramee's plan for a long rotunda was replaced by old Washburn Hall which has been Ramee's \Grand Design\ . described as \the only building.; that laoks like a poor cousin .of a railroad station on any American. campus,\ .. the greatest misfortune to the Ramee Plan,\ and \a bothersome aberration of our grandfathers\ (see picture}. Ramee's plan was not completely forsaken, however, for the present design of the Library, Social Sciences, and Humanities buildings are representative of the original Ramee plan. * * * * Concordiensis, October 12, 1962 .... In this issue of the paper there appeared the reprint of a letter written to the editor of the Tufts Weekly newspaper. The letter protested the manner in which Jackson University (the female half of Tufts University) performed a certain examination of its Freshmen and Sophmores. This examination consisted of the females having to strip off their clothes and be examined under \ spotlight. Their sensuous curves were phqtogfaphed so that re- examination wo!Jld be feasible. The purpose of this was to ensure that · ~11. Jackson girls. : l,l'ave · excellent · posture be~ause ~hey represent the University., \' * \' * Coneordieasis, October · 26, 1962... A group of Rochester students stole on campus last Thursday' night and painted the Idol. However,· it was the wrong Idol. Chester A. Arthur received his first coat of blazing yellow, while oft-painted Idol, remained a drab mixture of faded red and green. . . . '. ~ - _.' . .;:. \. :Director Wood cannot cite a particular 'reas(;n for this- or-any of the senseless vandalism which have , recently been ·occurirtg on camJ)lJs. E~plaining,. ~~vand\ttlism is the biggest seeuriW problem at this school,\ Wood told Contordy that a $100 fine will be imposed on any<>he wither. f~und in possession of any traffic signs or· found in the , act of stealing orte~ ·The cost to replace the signs taken so far has already amounted to over $100. Wood asks that anyone who wishes to report any vandalism or knows the whereabouts of a.OY of the signs to plea!ie contact him at the Security Off.ice. Campus Kits by Makim Mad & Gree11 What Could Be. More Trivial? Build your own campus from these prefab- ricated plaster b()ard kits, now in use in over 100 colleges and universities throughout the country. by HELENE ZATZ It takes a lot to get a whole college campus to get together on the phone for two hours. Whatever it is, it must be something tremendous.ly interesting to be worth putting two hours aside every week for five weeks. It must have some merit, but even more important, it would have to be something pleasurable that brings people together. 1 know what you're thinking of, but 1 had something else in mind. We call it Trivia, and it's one Union College innovation that has gotten progressively better as the years have gone on. If there is ever a Martian invasion of Schenectady in the near future, l pray the ship will land on a floor in Fox (or Davidson, South, North, etc., for that matter) on a Wednesday night at 10:00. What they will examine will surely send them back to their planet at top speed. The human race, and anyone else loose that night, will be sprawled across the floor with the telephone receivers in their hands, screaming names and statements at the top of their lungs and quickly hanging up. What will Psychology majors - On Thursday, Feb. lOth at . 4:00 p.m. there will .be a general meeting in room 113 in the Psychology building. Also, next Wednesday, February 16th at 4:00 p.m. in Strauss Lounge there will be a panel discussion on careers with a clinical psychologist, a counselor in private practice, il rehabilitation counselor, and a Social Worker. It should prove to be informative for those curious about their future after L'nion. seem ever sillier to those extra- terrestial creatures will be that the people seem to be enjoying themselves. They will be yelling and laughing straight through the music and applauding furiously when the miracle of getting through with a right answer occurs. A great feeling of satisfaction will appear on the face of the victorious participant, a look expressing the skill, knowledge and sheer luck that was necessary to secure an answer for your team just · once in a hundred times. Tricks of the Trade There are a few tips that one must know in order to play the game of Trivia without cracking up by II p.m. Ten of these are: I) Keep trying. Be persistant even when you don't know the answer because if you do hear \WRlJC\ from the other end of the line, enlight,enment may come to you (if not, somebody might have just found the answer). 2) When sure, give only iast names. First names Wlll usually get you into trouble. WR UC might hang up in the middle ·of your \Rob-:- when the guy's real name is John. 3) Keep as many books in the middle ot the hall a:; you can possibly get a hold of. Some good ones to keep in mind are the Guinness Book of Records, The Filmgoer's Companion, the World Almanac and old copies of the Union catalogues. 4) Get someone with nimbie fingers and a good grasp of spelling (the type who can find a word in the dictionary before you've finished the last syllable) to be your \Reference Material Informant.\ Too many people looking up answers usually leads to confusion. 5) Dial 6-1-5 as the question is being asked. The only thing you will have to do from there is dial a I or a 4 when the question is finished. 6) Get the glue off your ear after you've finished answering the question. Staying on the phone only leads to jamming. If you're that interested in cheating, you've lost the whole meaning of the game. The rewards at · the end aren 1 t worth it. 7) In desperation, listen carefully to the music. Quite often, there are good clues in .the intermittent music. Seme are obvious; others require some thinking. 8) If you are truly stuck, give an answer that is absolutely ridiculous, wait for a laugh and get off the phone. The person on the other end will probably appreciate it and by this time you . may really need the release. 9) There is no way you can make a fool out ot yourself. Your answer is probably not as stupid as your neighbor's, although he'll· tell you he knew all the time (after the correct response is given) .. 10) Have fun and don't take it seriously. Save your neuroses for when you are using the less important side of your brain, the side that is related to the knowledge of Einstein's theory of relativity, or something as trivial as that. Finally, thank. you Neil Adam Schwartz, Dan Rosenbaum, BiU Moss and everyone else responsible at RUC for giving us Trivia five Wednesdays from 10- 12 p.m. Your hard work has really paid off. Now we are all aware of the fact that Thomas trapper in:vented the toilet b<:>Wl, and you never know when that kind of information can come Up (or down) in a conversation. 'Full line of 1874 model T's that never sold. ~lJorrmtc•n\.es ___ $200,000 without doors for stalls ___ $190,000 without stalls $180,000 Special sale on Genuine Train Station Libra(ies in contemporary styling. Only 100 left, so act Immediately. In genuine Grand Rapids Chippendale Veneer- Only $1,000,000. SUPER 1 c SAL£ Buy Library,immediately and get with it 2 matching \satelht~ type\ h11ilding;s·at 1 c extra. , ' ,. SPECIAL KIT Of:FER~ With the purchase of an entlre 1871- mudd T car:;tpU~ kit \\e \vill include fnT laml<;canin~;,, lwd sufficient Stucco to cover up all the old ugly brick h~1ilclin0;\ you mi.12;ht .. ,rill have around· ·w<: will also remove any suangc.: s~·mito•u1d l;•: itdin~s that mi <~ht ohscltre the v-iew of um fortresses. AIJ Profess s11bmitted 1 meeting y1 statlls rep< Education Educationa (EPC). Allen, w subcommit till! i,deas t beeri aiscu: solve the presented· cot:n:p~ehc program. · tWO conqit geiu~r~lly -~ campus·m Ed. system that· there' to · ;ilie ' · el altemative1 free 1 eie~ti~ woukl' dev . v~~~ioq ·. :- ~ ed.uCAtion~· ·gq(ld ··.~4:v . ,s~ple, . di1 ·lllP1l.&. -~Ki · .dePa~m~n ,.(li~trib~tio. , .Allen. C( : d~sc.ri~~s EP.C .. has, ; .th~·.PfOpO! . weeks, ,left. ~c~ty ;l subcommi1 criticisms Ed ·syst~n then ·will, EPC lheir · solution . ' will send· Senate by and, ho during the In its subcomn discussing to the p under cor within al1 calls. for e xp o,sit.o commumc uppercHtss from 5 rna The· Fr be linutec active inv the' course reading, There are Sp.c Leo narc played t Vulcan ·l\1 .. Star. Trel Feb .. -15, Memorial to the:· p_u p.m. The45-: 3 successi for his co· the point: of the' St the demi: m~:Vej:[· io :'Followi withtb.~t of .Jtis c()n in· \Three

s f r f t CON(;ORDIENSIS, Feb. 9, 1977 Allen on CompEd Professor Neal Allen submitted to. the informal Senate meeting yesterday afternoon a stat11s report from the General Education subcommittee .of the Educational Policy Committee (EPC). frames. being contemplated for use · in the courses including, among others, concepts .and studies of cultural crises and the .. best t~,inking past and present concerning what an educ~ted person should know.'' The upperclass courses would be selected from among 5 different transdisciplinary modes of le~rning. These would include ~·symbolic and Abstract Reasoning,\ \Perspectives from Another Time and Culture,\ .. Human Behavior and Institution,\ ··science and Technology,\ and \Arts and Literature.\ Over the 3 upperclass years spent at Union a student would have to take courses from 2 of these areas as long as they were not in the same Future area as the student's major field of study. Allen explained that exposure in only two areas would get exposure in a third area through study in the student's major. Another idea being discussed concerns some sor.t of requirement during the Senior year. One idea for this is a course dealing in the \great lssues\ of the day. None of these ideas have been finalized and Allen said that a .. good deal more thought\ still has to be given to the problem. However, Allen expressed optimism concerning the futrue and .hope that Union is moving towards an effective and prod11-ctive general education program. Professor Neal Allen. chairman of the comp. ed. subcommiitee of EPC, laying out his proposal at yesterday's meeting. Allen, who is chairrnan of the subcommittee, detailed some of the ~<leas that the committee has been aiscussing ii:t its attempt to solv~ the r>erplexing problem presented by the failure of the coJ:D'p~ehensive · educat.ion program. ·He ·began by stating two conditions that he feels are generally a,ccepted as true by the . camp_us · namely · that the Comp Ed. sysfein. ·nee'ds ·replacement and that there\ are· three alternatives to ._;ilie · existing· sys:tem. These altemativ~s ''are' ~I)· a ·sysJem .of free: eteC'tives Where' tlie . student wol.llcf (ievelop . his or ner ·••own ver:!?iOQ· .-,l;)f. ~ . Liberal . ·Arts . ed.ucAtion~' thro.ugh the· .. u~e of a gq9c;l ..• !lP\~~i~g sy.s~~m. (2) · a .·sill).ple, . distri~~t~of}. req.wrement -~~!l&. ~~dsJj~g, · ._4j~_ision~l .. and life on a Term Abroad 1n • Bogota · ;dePrtlitm~.n~;j.;l .... ~mes, , J>r, ( 3) .. (l,is;tribgtiqn.•by ·m_o~e. of learnin~. . - .t\ne~; .~oP.JiJ!U:~d .. h~s. r~pQ(t by · d~sqri)>it;lg,_th,e . .time table Which EP.C .. h~s I set_ .up. fpr pe~/eJoping -the. .. p1o.Posat. Th.ere are stilf two weeks. ,left for. either students or ·faa.u~ty · .t.o,; submit. 'to the subcommittee .. any id.eas or criticisms concerning the Comp · Ed ·systbm. ·The Subcommittee then will, by ·Feb. 25, submit to EPC their detailed plan for the · solution of. the problem. EPC will send its report to the college Senate by March 9 for discussion and, hopefully, acceptance during the spring term. In its deliberation the subcommittee has been discussing one specific solution to the problem. The solution under consideration which falls within alternative three above, calls. for a Freshman course in expo-sitory Writing . and communication skills and two upp~rcHtss courses to be selected from 5 major categories. The Freshman course would be limited in size to encourage active involvement. Emphasis of the· cOurse would include writing,· reading, and speaking skills. There are a series of thematic by DEBRA LILIEN own a refrigerator so they buy When the 21 of us signed up for only enough food to last a day. a term abroad in Bogota, we did Needless to say, portions are so for a variety of reasons: most rationed very strictl:v, and she of us, in order to improve ottr never gets enough to satisfy her Spanish; others, for the American-sized appetite. Uptown, excitement of living in a foreign another girl gets served breakfast country; and some-..... to get away in bed and even gets filet mignon from winter term at Union. Bttt for dinner at times. more than anything else., I've It's really hard to forget your learned the many paradoxes that American values when the people make Colombia, a Third W odd you live with try so hard to be Nation, different from our U.S. like Americans. Their favorite When Byron Nichols came to T.V. shows are \The Bionic speak to our group, he warned us Woman\ (La Mujer Bionica) and about the contrasts we'd be sure ••Petrocelli.\ They love serving to see. He told us about the upper things like Tang and Nescafe. class who try to forget that the They have to show off their new poor e.xist and the \gamines\ - washing machine to everyone who the homeless children _who live in, comes to visit. We laugh at them the streets. and steal m order to because we take all of these things eat. He said that you usually have for granted and, in a few years, to go to the South Side to see they will too. them, but .th~y're all over. Su:e None of us were put with poor enough, w1thm one week ·a g1rl or lower-middle class families, by had a chain stolen off of her neck Colombian standards, s·o we by a gamino, in one of the nicer didn't expect to see many startling sections of Bogota. differences between our lives and Professor Nichols spoke about theirs. Maybe they don't have our American values and how we enough hot water for us to take should leave them in America. showers as often as we'd like or Well, it's hard not to see they serve us rice three times a differences no matter how open day, but for the most ;part, we minded you are. Within our own have \all the comforts of home.\ group, living conditions vary No, you have to go outside to see widely. One girl's family doesn't the many paradoxes that exist. You have to see the businessman in his Mercedes- Spock to Speak Bent honking his horn at the little boy trying to cross the street on his donkey. You have to see the cows being herded down the Leonard Nimoy, the actor who played the. half-human half- Vulcan \Mr. Spock· on television's \Star. Trek/' will speak Tuesday, Feb .. -15, at Union ~ollege's Memorial Chapel. His talk, open to t~:· p:u-~Iic;:,. ~ill begin at 8:30 p.m. The 45-year old Niriroy .received 3 . successive . E~my nominations for his co-starring petfoFmance ~ the pointy-,eared Second Officer of the Starship \Enterprise. After the demi~e ·.of ·\Star Trek\ he mb:Ve~f .to ·\Mission: Impossible.\· :,Following i years of 'service witk tluit program, he was let out of :his ci:>ntract. 'He then appeared in·· \Three. Faces of Love\ for .•, NBC and \The Alpha Caper\ for ABC. He also made his directiona.l debut on · Rod Serling's \Night Gallery.\ Nimoy has been acting for most of his life, beginning in theater and making his way into movies. Among the .films in which he has appeared are \Queen for a Day,\ \RhubaFb \Francis Goes to ·West Point,\ \The Balcony,\ .. Deathwatch,\ and \The Overland Trail.\ His first lead role was in \Kid Monk Baroni.\ Admission to Nimoy's talk, spons9red by Union College Speakers' Forum, is $1.75 to the genera! public. Spock's mobile home, the Starship Entt!rprise. street of one of the classiest neighborhoods. Y 9u have to see the street vendors in rags peddling their wares for a few pesos in front of stores which sell emeralds, fine leather goods, or clothes by Bobbie Brooks. Professor Nichols talked about the psychology of the Latin- American. Well, the native certainly lives up to his reputation of being hot blooded, especially the male. They're really into being \machismo.\ Fast driving seems to be the number one sport and there's no such thing as the \pedestrian's right-of-way.\ Y 9u run across the street if you want to make it to the other side alive. The few stop signs that do exist are completely ignored and you wonder why people bother to buy cars with brakes or turn signals. Hardly a day goes by when you don't see an accident or huge traffic jams and, needless to say, I haven't seen a traffic cop yet. Bogota has a huge mass transit system - buses go everywhere and they drive even faster than the cars. There's nothing more nerve-wracking than being on a bus that tries to beat every other vehicle to the corner. Any good-looking girl, especially a \gringa;\ cannot walk down the street without the eyes of every male following her as she goes. They call out \Hey baby..,. or obscenities, depending on the .. ·, . ' ne'ighborhood you're in. They feel that ifs their privilege to do this, and you're in big trouble if you do anything but ignore them. The people talk loud and fast, and they have little patience for Americans who are slow at understanding. They don't hesitate to insult you right to your face. They'll tell you how much they hate \gringos~' without giving it a second thought. If you're fat, you'll be called \el gordito\ instead of your name. \Fiestas\ last all night and it's really a shame if you can't acquire a taste for \aguardiente\ the national drink. Someone is bound to stand over you until you drink a shot, and another, and another - and then laugh at you when you say that you've had enough. It's unheard of not to drink at least four or five shots and you feel really left out if you're not as drunk as everyone else is. It seems that the biggest thrill for people here is to cheat Americans out of money. I've had to start yelling at bus drivers three times now because they didn't give me enough change. One hotel that we stayed in quoted one price to us when we checked in and then charged us extra for electricity and for newspapers which were slipped under the doors in the morning. Bargaining for goods is an accepted. practice and absolutely necessary since as soon as they realize that you're American, the price doubles. Three of us bought the same exact thing for $4, $2 and $1.50 - which says a lot for our skills at bargaining. If I have painted a gruesome picture,. I didn't mean to, there are a lot of nice people and so much to do and see. The waiters constantly ask you whether everything is all right. There are no bus stops so the drivers pick you up wherever you are and let you off as soon as. you ring the bell. The people who make you drink at parties only want you to have a good time. Some of the people who stop their cars and ask you if you need a lift, do have good intentions. And the shopkeepers who greet you with \a ia orden\ really mean it. The classes are interesting, although they're taught in Spanish and many of us miss most of what's being said. We're also learning how to weave, although the class is so large that we spend half of the time sitting and waiting for the teacher to come over and show us what's next. We go horseback riding every week, although some of the horses are lame and we never go out of the corral. We go on field· trips to different cities, although some of the hotels that we stay in are bug-infested and don't have any electricity because of the energy crisis. We have plenty o( I • I ' : free time to read and study, although most of us don't have any light from 5-8 at night also because of the energy crisis. But, it's all part of living in a Third World Nation, as Byron Nichols would say. One headline read \Bogota is the Cheapest City in the World,\ so we really can't expect everything to be perfect. We're here to learn and observe and, obviously, I've done my share. I haven't been able to forget my American values but because of that I value America more. I have a great tan now, but I think that next year I'll go to Miami to get one. * ******** iC lt The two positions of it Jt Editor-in-Chief of Union's it * award-win-ning weekly, i( lt Concordiensis, are vacant -+c ...t... for next term. New Editors ~ ~ will be chosen by election ~ lt on Thursday, February 17, ic lt at 8:00 P.M. in the iC * Concordy office on third ic: ........_ floor Carnegie. Anyone ic ..,- who has done any work for ~ * the paper this year ~ * possesses one vote in what 1c * is shaping up as a contest ic lt too close to call. Any ic member of the student * body is eligible to run for 1c * the position of Editor. All 1c Jt- interested candidates must ic * present a written statement 1c of policy and intent with lt respect to the organization 1c lt and management of the -fc Jt paper, to Mrs. Marra in the 1c * Student Activities Office by ic lt Feb. 14. 1c ********** ~ Union College students with ID cards will be admitted free to Friday's American Composers' Forum Concert featuring the works of Aaron Copland. The concert begins at 8 p.m. in Memorial Chapel and will be attended by Copland himself. The $2 ticket price Concordy gave last week applies to all students other than those attending Union. Furthermore, according to the Arts Department, all faculty and staff will also be admitted at no charge. However, members of their families will be subject to the regular ticket prices - $4 to the general public and, as stated, $2 to students. Finally, we have been notif~d that the seminar which Copland will give at I p.m. Friday has been moved from the Arts Building to Memorial Chapel. Admission is free to aU who wish to attend.

en at lly us IS as of a a on sm at be ing or ht~ \\ e up · ~ CON(;ORDIENSIS. Feb. 9, 1977 Allen on CompEd p:rofessor Neal Allen submittecl to the informal Senate meeting yesterday afternoon a status report from the General Education subcommittee of the Educational Policy Committee (EPC). Allen. who is chairman of the subcommittee, detailed some of tile ideas that the committee has bee~ (liscussing in its attempt to solvtr the !)erplexing problem presented by the failure of . the com'J)tehensive educ~t10n pr~gram. 'lie began by stating tWO conditions that he ·feels are geiteraUy a~cepted as ,true by the . cantpus · namely that the Comp Ed. system needs· replacement and that . there' are' three alternatives to .;tlie '· existing· syst~m. These aliem~ti;V~s ··are·· (1)' a sys~em of frames_ being contemplated for use · in the courses including, among others, concept~ and studies of cultural crises and the \best lt.inking past and present concerning what an edUC!Ited person should know.\ The upperclass courses would be selected from among 5 different transdisciplinary modes of learning. These would include \Symbolic and Abstract Reasoning,\ \Perspectives from Another Time and Culture,\ ··uuman Behavior and Institution,\ .. Science and Technology,\ and ''Arts and Literature.\ Over the 3 upperclass years spent at l:Jnion a student would have to take courses from 2 of these areas as long as they were not in the same Future area as the student's major field of study. Allen explained that exposure in only two areas would get exposure in a third area through study in the student's major. Another idea being discussed concern-s some sort of requirement during the Senior year. One idea for this is a course dealing in the •;great Issues\ of the day. None of these ideas have been finalized and Allen said that a \good deal more thought\ still has to be given to the problem. However, Allen expressed optimism concerning the futrue and. hope that Union is moving towards an effective and productive general education program. Professor Neal Allen, chairman of the comp. ed. subcommiitee of EPC, laying out his proposal at yesterday's meeting . . free: elet'tivi:s. where' the . student woukf develop · his or iler ·\own veF.!!ioq·. ~· Qf . a. . Libera.l .. -Arts ed.uCAtion~· through lhe. u~e of a ·gqpd ··,!lQ:Vi~ing ~y.s~em. (2) · a ,,sin}ple, . distri\>J.It!oJ!. r~q1,1jrement ·lll~!l& ·~Kis~<@g ... div~sional .arid ·.dePaJtment~J.;L. ~~n~s, ,,9r, . (3) ·distribl!tiqn.·by ·m.<?~e;af learning. ,.' .NJell.;.~oP.:#nu~d .. b.~s. r~pQ~t. by Life on a Term Abroad tn Bogota • · d~sqriJ>~t:lg . .th.e·. time . table. ·which EP.C.,h,as. set_ .up. t\)r PeYe~oping ; -the::IJroposa\. TJ:l,ere ar~ sti_U' two weeks, .left for either students or ·~cuJ,ty ;t<;> . .' s:ubmit ·to . the subcommitt~e . any. id.eas or criticisms concerning the Comp E:d ·systbm. The Subcommittee then ·will, by.·Feb. 25, submit to EPC lheir detailed ·plan for the · solution . of the problem. EPC will send its report to the college Senate by March 9 for discussion and, hopefully, acceptance during the spring term. In its deliberation the subcommittee has been discussing one specific solution to the problem. The solution under consideration which falls within alternative three above, calls. for a Freshmart course in expository writing . and communication skills and two upperclass courses to be selected from 5 major categories. The ·Freshman course would be lirillted in size to encourage active involvement. Emphasis of the' course would include writing, · reading, and speaking skills. There are a series of thematic by DEBRA LILIEN own a refrigerator so they buy When the 21 of us signed 1.1p for on:ly enough food to last a day. a term abroad in Bogota, we did Needless to say, portions are so for a variety of reasons: most rationed very strictly, and she of us, in order to improve our never gets enough to satisfy bet Spanish; others, for the American-sized appetite. Uptown, excitement of living in a foreign another girl gets served breakfast country; and some - to get away in bed and even gets filet mignon from winter term at Union. But for dinner at times. more than anything else_, rve It's really hard to forget your learned the many paradoxes that American values when the people make Colombia, a Third 'World you live with try so hard to be Nation, different from our U.S. like Americans. Their favorite When Byron Nichols came to T.V. shows are ••The Bionic speak to our group, he warned us Woman\ (La Mujer Bionica) and abou.t the contrasts we'd be sure ••Petrocelli.\ They love serving to see. He told us about the upper things like Tang and Nescafe. class who try to forget that the They have to show off their new poor e.xist and .the ••gamine.s\ -;--- washing machine to everyone who the homeless chtldren who liVe !h, comes to visit. We laugh at them the streets and steal in order to because we take all of these things eat, He said that you usuall:y have for granted and, in a few years, to go to the South Side to see they will too. them, but _th~y're all over. S u.re None of us were put with poor enough, Withm one week --a g1rl or lower-middle class families, by had a chain stolen off of her neck Colombian standards, so we by a gamino, in one of the nicer didn't expect to see many startling sections of Bogota. differences between our lives and Professor Nichols spoke about theirs. Maybe they don't have our American values and how we enough hot water for us to take should leave them in America. showers as often as we'd like or Well, it's hard not to see they serve us rice three times a differences no matter how open d~y, but for the most .part, we minded you are. Within our own have ••an the comforts of home.\ group, living conditions vary No, you have to go outside to see widely. One girl's family doesn't the many paradoxes that exist. You have to see the businessman in his Mercedes- Spock ·to Speak Benz honking his horn at the little boy trying to cross the street on his donkey. You have to see the cows being herded down the Leonard Nimey, the actor who played the- half-human half- Vulcan \rvtr. Spock. on television's ••star. Trek;\ will speak: ·Tuesday, Feb. _ -15, at Union C<Jllege's Memorial Chapel. His talk, open to the:· p~l.ic,. will begin at 8:30 p.m. The 45-year old Nimoy received 3 successive . E~my )1ominations for his co-starring performance ~ the pointy~ared Second Officer of .the -Starship Enterprise. After the demi~e of .. Star Trek\ he m~Velf· to -'\Mission: Impossible.\· :Following i yean of 'service wit.b th~t program, he was let out of.p.is cl:;ntfa~t. :ue then appeared in · •'Three. Faces of Love\ for NBC and \The Alpha Caper\ for ABC. He also made his directional debut on Rod Serling's \Night Gallery.\ Nimoy has been acting for most of his life, beginning in theater and making his way into movies. Among the .films in which he l:tas appeared are \Queen for a Day,\ \RhubaFb \Francis Goes to ·West Point,\ \The Balcony,\ .. Deathwatch,\ and \The Overland Trail.\ His first lead role was in \Kid Monk Baroni.\ Admission to Nimoy's talk, sponsored by Union College Speakers' Forum, is $1.75 to the genera! public. Spock's mobile home, the Starship Enterprise. street of one of the classiest neighborhoods. Yc;m have to see the street vendors in rags peddling their wares for a few pesos in front of stores which sell emeralds, fine leather goods, or clothes by Bobbie Brooks. Professor Nichols talked about the psychology of the Latin- American. Well, the native certainly lives up to his reputation of being hot blooded, especially the male. They're really into being \machismo.\ Fast driving seems to be the number one sport and there's no such thing as the \pede$trian's right-of-way.\ You run across the street if you want to make it to the other side alive. The few stop signs that do exist are completely ignored and you wonder why people bother to buy cars with brakes or turn signals. Hardly a day goes by when you don't see an accident or huge traffic jams and, needless to say, I haven't seen a traffic cop yet. Bogota has a huge mass transit system. - buses go everywhere and they drive even faster than the cars. There's nothing more nerve-wracking than being on a bus that tries to beat evefy other vehicle to ,the corner. Any good-looking girl, especially .a \gringa cannot walk down the street without the eyes of every male following her as she goes. They call out \Hey baby'\ or obscenities. depending on the ! • '. ne.ighboFhood you're in. They feel that it's their privilege to do this, and you're in big trouble if you do anything but ignore them. The people talk loud and fast, and they have little patience for Americans who are slow at understanding. They don't hesitate to insult you right to your face. They'll tell you how much they hate ••gringos\ without giving it a second thought. If you're fat, you'll be . called \el gordito\ instead of your name. '\Fiestas\ last all night and it's really a shame if you can~t acquire a taste for ••aguardielite\ the national drink. Someone is bound to stand over you until you drink a shot, and another, and another - and then laugh at you when you say that you've had enough. It's unheard of not to drink at least four or five shots and you feel really left out if you're not as drunk as everyone else is. It seems that the biggest thrill for people here is to cheat Americans out of money. I've had to start yelling at bus drivers three times now because they didn't give me enough change. One hotel that we stayed in quoted one. price to us when we checked in and then charged us extra for electricity and for newspapers which were slipped under the doors in the morning. Bargaining for goods is an accepted practice and absolutely necessary since as soon as they realize that you're American, the price doubles. Three of us bought the same exact thing for $4, $2 and $1.50 - which says a lot for our skills at bargaining. lf 1 have painted a gruesome picture, 1 didn't mean to, there are a lot of nice people and so much to do and see. The waiters constantly ask you whether everything is all right. There are no bus stops so the drivers pick you up wherever you are and let you off as soon as you ring the bell. The people who make you drink at parties only want you to have a good time. Some of the people who stop their cars and ask you if you need a lift, do have good intentions. And the shopkeepers who greet you with \a ia orden\ really mean it. The classes are interesting, although they're taught in Spanish and many of us miss most of what's being said. We're also learning how to weave, although the class is so large that we spend half of the time .sitting and waiting for the teacher to come over and show us what's next. We go horseback riding every week, although some of the horses are lame and we never go out of the corral. We go on field- trips to different cities, although some of the hotels that we stay in are bug-infested and don•t have any electricity because of the energy crisis. We have plenty of I' ' l I ' free time to read and study, although most of us don't have any light from 5-8 at night also because of the energy crisis. But, it's all part of living in a Third World Nation, as Byron Nichols would say. One headline read \Bogota is the Cheapest City in the World,\ so we really can't expect everything to he perfect. We're here to learn and observe and, obviously, I've done my share. I haven't been able to forget my American values but because of that I value America more. I have a great tan now, but l think that next year I'll go to Miami to get one. * ******** ~ Jt- The two positions of iC * Editor-in-Chief of Union's iC *award-winning weekly, i( * Con.:ordiensis, are vacant -1C ....._ for next term. New Editors ~ ~ will be chosen by election ~ l4-- on Thursday, February 17,. *at 8:00 P.M. in the 1t * Concordy office on third iC. ....._ floor Carnegie. Anyone iC. 1 who has done any work for ~ ..,- the paper this year-,.. * possesses one vote in what +: :Jt is shaping up as a contest ~ lt too . close to call. Any -tc member of the student lt body is eligible to run for iC lt the position of Editor. All iC. lt interested candidates must i' * present a written statement iC. of policy and intent with * respect to the organization iC. lt- and management of the i' *paper, to Mrs. Marra in the -il * Student Activities Office by -il lt Fell. 14. -il ********** it Union College students with ID cards will be admitted free to Friday's American Composers' Forum Concert featuring the works ·of Aaron Copland. The concert begins at 8 p.m. in Memorial Chapel and will be attended by Copland himself. The $2 ticket price Concordy gave last week applies to all students other than those attending Union. Furthermore, according to the Arts Department, all faculty and staff will also be admitted at no charge, However. members of their families will be subject to the regular ticket prices - $4 to the general public and, as stated, $2 to students. Finally, we have been notif~d that the seminar which Copland will give at I p.m. Friday has been moved from the Arts Building to Memorial Chapel. Admission is free to aU who wish to attend. .I. .. ·-- ....

CONCORDIENSJS, Feb. 9, 1977 =-- Page 4 - Concordy INTERVIEW with VP·Gaii;Z CONCORDY: Why did you decide to run for student government? GANZ: Because I was pretty disappointed with what was going on in. student government. I saw that I definitely wanted to get involved, there definitely was a need to get involved, and l thought I could do a good job. l talked to other people and they thought it would be a good idea if I ran. one's advisor. The faculty don't want it, and rejected it earlier this year. They felt it was forced participation. But l feel they were too lazy to do the work, CONCORDY: Do you see any .progress this year on the comp-ed system or Advisor system problems? increased applications. Bt!t in other instances last year's forum like this year's, was bogged down. We can't get together, we can't formulate a definite directive. The · comp..eds is something that we all are in favor .of, yet only a handful are actually supporting it. Most of my problems center around certain committees I have to work with. Some committees just don't care what is happening. school activities'r is clearly a must for each one. GANZ: In the beginning of' the CONCORDY:: To sum up, do year we placed an ad in the paper you ; think~ • student~~ . are-~ or asking for freshmen to join committees and at the end of the could be an ~ff~ctiy~ fQ.~c;e for year places within each committee d~!lnge wit.hjn th~ cl,)H~g.~? . are reserved for freshmen, ;;tround GANZ: Oe,'finh~Iy, if w~ WQI.ll'd 20 to 25 spots. SJ?ea_k up;~ if\ :'(V¢ q1a~\·· ·; Ql.lr feelmgs. knowJ)·. .Pxo.vest CONCORDY: Do you think, as· f.utenn;ta~. haS: ~a~~\·!Jlaii.Y. 'imes Some people do, that there is an that its. _ti,le· studeQtS. who. OWe CONCORDY: What were your GANZ: The comp-ed and the advisory system do tie in together. The comp-ed system would make the advisors more aware as to the student's potential. The present CONCORDY: Do you think student forum could be doing more? elitist clique in the school, that th.e ,schoQl SQ,ni.~thiq.g .and not runs all activities and only >the· sciJoer owing the .. si 11 a~n~s. permits their friends to do I !iefin~tel~ · feer tqe.- ji.:hool \important things'r' h' owes me so~e~ tog~ .. ~Q. I GANZ: l felt that way freshman :~vant that _somethipg ~nQwn. If goals when you ran? GANZ: A number of things. One to crack down on inefficient executtves, being the vice president has the job of running the committees. The major thing was to get the system in better, order, try to crack down on a number of committees that weren't functioning very well. Another one was to work on the comp. eds, which is what I am doing right now, and l really am trying to overhaul that system, it's quite pathetic. CONCORDY: Have you been disappointed or disillusioned by the stpdent government thus far? GANZ: I would say disillusioned - it's like banging your head against the wall when you're dealing with the All-College Senate. The administration is pathetic to deal with. The faculty is even worse, and it's the faGulty that's taking over the school anyway, so they don't seem too thrilled by new suggestions. CONCORDY: How do you account for the fact that with all of Union's problems, the All- College Senate has met only once this year? GANZ: Well, it's just indicative of how much the faculty think of the students and their opinions. It shows where the faculty places priorities in the school. CONCORDY: What have been your impressions of faculty in campus politics? GANZ: The faculty run the school, or at least are trying to run the school. Righ now, as we all know, they are trying to get involved with the hockey program, and to secure better admissions at Union. I'm very much in favor of better admissions for this school. But 1 also like an open ear to a number of policies. like the non-academic transcripts. The non-academic transcript lists all non-academic activities participated in. This would in turn be validated by GANZ: They could definitely· speak up a lot more. l've always believed forceful actions would definitely make our views known. We could have referendums, find out really how the student body feels. ~~:gonT~r~ow:r~ th: p:~;le f! we h~v~. f~el;il?gs·_.th~Y. ~~R~ld I • lle vo11;ed., · . , . . , , ... , .. power. t s always that way. As a · · · · · · '· · .,.. · comp-ed system, freshman electives, has got to be over- nauled; it's a real joke. Right now Andy Koblenz student trustee, and myself are working on a proposal. There are 3 courses, creativity, expository communication, and logical analysis, which I feel will encompass most of the basic learning skills needed. They would be taken in freshman year in place .of the present freshman electives. CONCORDY: Do you think that lack of progress in campus affairs has been due to faculty intransigence, poor quality of students in government, both, or what? GANZ: I would put more of the emphasis on the faculty. It seems that any group in power wants no change. They want change but seem not to want any work. Among the students in government, there's been incompetence. Last year, for example, the president of the student body didn't care and in turn it caused a divided student body. CONCORDY: How would you assess this year's student forum in relation to last? GANZ: Well, first let me explain what the student forum is. 1t consists of all the class representatives, the student trustees, two members of the tax committee, a member from the presidential advisory board, one from student life, and one from planning - and priorities. The president, and treasurer of the student body also sit in on the forum.· The forum last year did a number of things that were pretty good. This can be seen by the number of increased applicants to the committees. The vice president is in charge of applications, sent out in spring. And last year Matt Brief, the ex- vice president encouraged the freshman a group of us were very CON.COROV:. ~~:, th~r~: any vocal; we wanted to tun the· .pa.-t;iclllar •. )~ue: 1 ,i_n -~~t;hool sch~ol. There are a ~elect few that pc1licy,_ .you .w,ant, !c)aapg~«t~ .. CONCORDY: Why do~t students know or seem to care about the activities of student forum,. they're very important. GANZ: We've gotten our notices get mvolved. By seemg how .many -GANZ: Y ~&; t}Jer~.~\~, T.~nure is . people· a.pply for the commtttees, .. · a, t~u~hy. ~q.bject ~~·t!l\~scbool. and ho_w many:. accepted, the . ~ig~tno\.Vr.theri!-.is,,a, pr~.P.O~fll g~oup Js not ehte but rather . ,by t~e pre~idel)t ,o(th.e-~tt,l,~nt dtver~e. It seems. that as the bod-y and bqt~ 9J··t.h~u~r~!!t~es. in the paper, telling wben and where the meetings are. All are welcome to sit in. It's not really student apathy, but rather a concern for grades which keeps them a way from these meetings. Some students feel nothing can be done, even with them attending a meetin.g, which is far from truth. CONCORDY: How much apathy would you say there is among students at Union? GANZ: l would say a lot, but the apathy is declining. Last year's sophomore class proved to me that apathy was almost non- existent. The number .of people who ran for one office was never before matched. People are more active for whatever the reasons are. Some people just want it for their applications. Others are sincerely interested in getting involved. CONCORDY: What exactiy are your duties as chairman of the Committee on Committees? GANZ: There are four of us; the senior representative, the junior representative, the sophomore representative, and myself, vice president and chairman. The president, Jim Trump is doing a great job of keeping the student body united. The Committee on Committees watch over the committees. If we want, for instance, to put a security system in the library, a project I've been at for awhile, l would go talk to chairman of the security committee and tell him to file a proposal. But it's usually myself who files the proposal. CONCORDY: What is your major goal as · chairman of Committee on Committees? GANZ: It's really hard to define a major goal. We have many proposals, the comp-eds is a goal. But one thing I really want passed is for the editors of Concordiensis to receive credit for their work on their transcripts. CONCORDY: Have you designed a selection process for the spring applications as of yet? GANZ: We are basically going to use what we used last year. When all the applications come in, I'll be separating them in different committees. Then all of us on the . major committees will read through the applications. There are no names evaluated during selection, just l D numbers. Evaluation is based upon what a candidate can offer for a committee, his views, his experience, and his general knowledge. CONCORDY: How can students get on committees right now? GANZ: During the first week of spring term, mailboxes are stuffed with applications. You can apply for more than one committee. By about the second week in May, selections are made. CONCORDY: In general, how can a freshman get involved with se.lectl~m ~~omes_ ~~Fe acute the They;re .wqrk~ng og, ~:yjngAo dtversJty ts mtenstfted. get a. 5~ud~qt., 1 w;. s~.~·Pl'\,.~he CONCORD\:': Do you thinl tenure evaluatiQ.IJ,t·•:9Q~[.d; you'll be active in government . main.ly, '· 1 bre.cau!)e, . oL. •what next year Ol' . will yo.- ~ome down . · h~ppen~p: ,Jas~ .. !ye~ .,; ~i~h ; a with a case of senioritis? . : . , teacher dw.t d;id-~!t g~~ ,t)t~~re GANZ: I would definitely want to,· ,a\tll.o~gh .stuElents;i;(((\t i,t,,/t_Vas get involved. I've heard things · . de~ e r. v ~; d.,.,.: :r; 1). e ~;.~ !.s , . n o from seniors who got involved c.on:elation;., :Y;ith •• WQ!\t , :i~e and were very sorry. But. I really· student~ ,waJlt,,.,if!!··jl}!!t• .• wh.at enjoy government, and intend to thl! 'fac~lty ·W~n~s. tao.n't t\link stay at it. . the. faculty ;eyer G.l!lies what the CON CORDY: What cJo you stude~ts wan~ .. ,'Jh,e .. ;w;hole think are Union's most important En~hsh <J:epartm!!n,t. ·was committees? dectmate;d .last ye,ar. .. , , GANZ: My list of most important CONCORD¥: . Who 'deCides committees would have to include tenure? planning and priorities, which (JA:NZ: There's. ··an ·Ad Hoc deals with the school budget. This tenure committee who ·decides committee is an · All-College by class evaluations .of a Senate with 3 students and the teacher, and by faculty rest of its members faculty. evaluations. Then they· report Admissions is also an important en this research. The total committee. Righ now Admissions assessment is then presented to is looking for diversity and is· anoiher ·committee which failing. I feel they're · forgetting either rejects or accepts the about marks, and while increasing application. diversity they are lowering the , CONCORDY: Are you proud schoolstandard. .uf what you have CONCORDY: Can students accomplished? play key l'oles on committees1 GANZ: rm not proud of what GANZ: Oh definitely! On All-. I've done; there haven't been College Senate committees any major accomplishments. they could be a great aid. I've I'm looking forward to doing had many professors come up something I can look back on to me and offer proposals. and be proud of. I'm proud to Some faculty do listen. see how I've progressed since CON CORDY: President freshman year. I was always a complainer; I'd complain Bonnel' too? GANZ: President Bonner is not so much willing to listen, but rather to act as a public- relations man for the school. More students, active in government, is what this school needs, and involvement about the weather. And now even my complaints about the weather are evaluated and commented upon. I don't know if I can command any respect - f don't think I have to. --- A DAVE The fo instal/men originally Homewoo Hopkins l It was chj apply to poi~t that in the·chal introducti£ theHopk;; \SoAlitel fourld thej ThoughAj the same, l ·~ • 1~ • , ·~ 1 oh, m, nevtr >fit- ;j far too'sm if r squee he'ad · :.on squirmed 'ii great· slirpl her entire this~ less 4 anticipated Her fi Unitmland different f come. Still She was n the air wa: revelled in out. Now, rabbit? H through 'th \Oh! Mr The w regarded hi wristwatch my goodne scampered under on~ H·onor Soc \Wait! 1\ wait Up!\ curious intercepted] him and st \Oh my late! I'm I;; Alice fror calendar w1 \l'm late,. now! I'm, some~hi~g!' \But I jt .\Oh yes, Maybe ne day.\ He r case floppil \~utI ha the hare certainly .se doing some she said to She could 1 but seek s The paths marked. Tl she found · difficult to wasn't on a was very t~ The signs \Chemistry letters. Ano fancy scrip: was marke She consid while, but f, under it w Rabbits C anything b1 assured th1 aren't like destination, happen to · Science anir Alice thoug . Represen national · Delta Ta1 Sunday, They wi . sorority persons 1 starting · The meet in Straus P.M. Rei

_ ---·------------------~----------------~C~O~N~C~O~R~· ~D~lE~W~S~l~~~P,~e~b~.~~~1~9~77~-----------------------------------P-a-ge_ 5 _ 0 I is at re pe he as 'OC a tal to ve on to a in the ave Alice ··in Uni·onland • • Walking on the Path by DAVE MENDELSOHN The following is the first installment of a 3-part serial that originally appeared as \Alice in Homewi:Jodland\ in the Johns Hopkins News..Letter last year. It was changed and adapted to apply to Union. There ·is one poi-qt that might have been lost in the ·changes; It lies in a bit .of introduction, as it appeared in the Hopkins paper ... · \SoAlite 'in her Homewood/and fourlil the air ilidpress so. Though Academielands ·are .all the same, .but only J~ss so.\ . • ·~ • 1~ \ . ' ... . . • · Aoh, my!\ Alice thought. \I'll nev~r>fit;thr-6tigh that ·door. It's far to'o'small for me: But perhaps if r squeeze ... •· Alice poked her he'ad · • unde'r the transom, squirmed 'into the opening. To her great'surprise, she was able to fit her· entire body through, finding this ~ less difficult than she had anticipated. : · Her first impression of Unic:.nland was that it wasn't very different from whence she had come. Still, the air· was heavier. She was not quite sure yet what the ·air was heavier with, but she revelled in the prospect of finding out. Now, where was that silly rabbit? He must have gone through 'that door if he ... \Oh! Mr. Rabbit! Wait! Wait!\ The white rabbit closely regarded hi~ LED.digital calendar wristwatch and muttered, \Oh my goodness! Goodness me!\ He scampered away, calculps hook under one arm and National Honor Society under the other. \Wait! Mr. Rabbit! Oh, please wait Up!\ Alice tore after the curious hare. She finally interceptedhimpnly by outrunning him and standing in his path. \Oh my fur and whiskers! I'm late! I'm late!\ He looked up at Ali~e from his LED digital calendar wristwatch and repeated, \I'm late, dammit! Can't stop now! I'm. on my way to being some~hing!\ \But I just wanted to ... \ .\Oh yes, yes. I'd like to help. Maybe next Thursday. Good day.\ He ran off, his calculator case flopping at his waist. \~ut I haven't even told you ... ,\ the hare was .gone. \My he certainly .seems busy. He must be doing ~omething very important,\ she said to no one in particular. She could think of nothing to do but seek someone else's advice. The paths were well enough marked. This was fortunate, for she found that it would he very difficult to travel anywhere that wasn't on a path; the underbrush was very thick. the signs marked the junctions. \Chemistry one declared in neat letters. Another said, \English\ in fancy script. A well-beaten trail was marked \Natural Science.\ She considered this one for a while, but found a smaller marker under it which warned, \White Rabbits Only If you're anything but a white rabbit, be assured that you sure as shit aren't likely to reach your destination, unless, of course, you happen to want to be a Nat ural Science animal.\ \That's curious,\ Alice thought ... What else would . Representatives of the national sorority Sigrna · Delta Tau will be here this Sunday, February 13, 1977. They will present their . sorority to all interested · persons with the intent of starting a Union chapter. · The meeting will take place in Strauss Lounge at 1:00 P.M. Refreshments will be served. be the destination?\ Alice knew that there was much to be learned about white rabbits. Meanwhile she was still stuck with the decision as to which .path should be tried. \Well I've always liked science. I'll see what Physics is like.\ She started down the physics trail. She had been fighting her way across the terrain for ho.urs before she finally sat to rest. \Gee I sure hope there are connections ·between these trails.\ She did have a lot to learn about Unionland. After properly admiring the View, she continued her trek. After another hour she rounded a pass and stopped abruptly at the strange sound of... coffee perking? She stepped from the brush to find a bizarre Hatter at a mammoth table with many calculators and a number of coffee urns. The Hatter studied one calculator intensely. \Oh !'' he looked up. \Why hello there. You've come to study with me?'' \Well I guess so. I mean, I just...\ \Wonderful! You'll find this very interesting. It won't all be, but, well come here and see.\ The Hatter poir,~ted to a book. The open page was covered with diagrams and calculations. ''If you figure this out, you'll understand why a stick looks bent when half is in water.\ \My that should be interesting,\ Alice said sincerely. She sat and poured through the pictures and equations. After a few minutes she was ready to ask some quest-ions, but she was cut short by the loud whistle from a coffee pot: \Oh!\ the Hatter gleamed and patted his palms together. \It's time to study something else now.\ . Alice thought this might be a good idea. The Hatter gestured for her to move to the next text a·t the seat beside her. Alice sat at the new book, but found that it was more physics. \Pardon me,\ she started, \but shouldn't this be a new subject?\ \Why of course! What have you got there?\ \U hm. It's about heat Calories.\ Hatter poured himself a cup of ••of course! Of course! A coffee and sat at the next place. Alice was sitting in contemplation m~.r;~!~~~ topic!\ when a 2-horned quark jumped \Hmm'?\ from a coffeepot and shook the \I don't understand. 1 thought 1 brown liquid from its fur. The Hatter grabbed it stealthily and was going to ... \ . h \G \What would you like to study, stuffed it mto anot er urn. o dear'!\ back to sleep,\ he scolded \Well I'm interested in writing. impatiently. \I'm not ready for And in .philosophy. I'm also ... \ you yet.\ \Silly riddler,\ he muttered to himself as he turned \My dear girl. rm interested in B back to his studies. English and philosophy too! ut Alice was befuddled. \I think I we can't spend all our time learning that, f,IOW call we?\ should seek the other trails just the same,\ she said. \Well I should think not, \Very well, then,\ the Hatter but ... \ replied, not taking his eyes from ..Then you should be pleased to his text.' \Best of luck. J shan't study more .physics. Don't you think you'll be able to leave here kl'!OW that Unionland is one of on time.\ the finest places in the world to \Should 1 be anxious to 'leave'?\ learn physics:?\ Alice asked innocently. \Well; I ~uess I know.\ She \Wh f h \ th H tt · y, o ... w y... e · a er thought for a moment. Then, at stammered. He thought deeply a the risk of being impolite, she moment, found that he could do asked, \Pardon me, sir, but is no studying while engaged in such there any way to get to any of the evaluation. other trails?'' Alice, in the meantime, took off \The other trails? My directly into the thick of the goodness! How old are you, little woods. She found it difficult .g irl?\ going, but not so hard as she \I'm a junior,\ Alice replied. would have though-t. The \A junior in the spring and still underbrush was less dense here, doubting her path! Unionland ~s and the trees were more widely ·!'~· the best place for you, now IS spaced. \But 1 . have no way of It.\ . knowing Where J'm headed,\ She Well, perhaps not, then,. but... . cautioned herself. The walk was w~~· .can I g~t to the other trai~s?\ pleasant though, aQd while it was 1! s posstble. The connections tougher to travel than the trail, it won t be blazed for you, but yo~ was less steep. can find your way around here tf And the change felt awfully you try.\ good Another whistle blew. The · ----Financial Aid News---- PART IV Philosophy, Policies and Procedures Regarding the Financial Aid Program at Union College and the Initial Year A ward Union College joins the many colleges that subscribe ' to the concept of \financial need\ which states that need must exist in \order for a student to be considered for assistance. Granting financial aid, be it a direct scholarship grant, roan or job (all of which are components of financial aid) beyond need, is a violation of the letter and spirit of this concept, would violate federal regulations if a student were on any of those programs, and would only deprive deserving students with a valid need of assistance. The responsibility for enrolling a class of the desired quality and quantity rests with the Committee on Freshmen Admissions and Financial Aid. In making financial aid awards, the Committee takes into account financial need, the scholastic potential and accomplishment, character, leadership, achievement and promise in extra-curricular activities of the applicant. ·There are more desirable students applying for and having a demonstrated need for assistance than there are funds available; consequently, many difficult decisions have to be made by the Committee as to how these funds are to be allocated and apportioned. Following the acceptance of a candidate for admissions, the Committee, in a separate procedure, rates the student as to the breakdown of the financial aid package - the proportion of aid in scholarship, loan and/ or job and directs the Financial Aid Officer as to how the financial aid \package\ is to be fashioned. A financial aid package is made up of two or more of these aids and well over 90 percent on aid are \packaged.\ It is incumbent upon the financial aid officer, who is not a member, to follow the decisions of the Committee and not indulge in overruling those judgments. Freshmen financial aid awards are generaliy sent out with the admission acceptance notice. This takes place early in April of the senior · year in high school. Candidates have until May I st, the Candidates Reply Date, to which most colleges subscribe, to decide on their choice of college. There are three types of letters 'l\here IS a differen&e!! I r:.~=-~h~·-• PREPARE FOR: MCAT• OAT• LSAT• SAT GRE • GMAT • OCAT • VAT Our broad range of programs provides an umbrella of te_st- ing know.::how that enables us to offer the best preparation available, no matter which course is taken. Over 38 years of experience and success. Small classes. Volummous home study materials. Courses that are constantly up- dated. Permanent centers open days, evenings & week- ends all year. Complete tape facilities for review .of class lessons and for use of supplementary materials. Make-ups for missed lessons at our centers. ECFMG • FLEX NAT'L MEDICAL & DENTAL BOARDS Flexible Programs & Hours Brooklyn .· 212·336·5300 ~~ 11 Manhattan 212·838·4454 5} '11. '-'\•''''\\ ,&,,...,.. JP.. .,.p N New Jersey 201-846·2662 lVI . OulsodeNY Slale Only 800 221 9840 EDUCATIONAL CENTER LTD CALL Toll Free • • 1675 E 16 St Bklyn NV 1 1229 a.aceiii\iii'\.'il '\ M.ll.oot~~U~S~C~th~es~~~·~~d· Lu.eanlioii. s 1 w, 111 trell'''•\d•·· TEST PREPARATION .. SPECIAliSTS SINCE 1938 that are sent to the applicants for financial .aid: ( 1) a financial aid award letter that indicates to the rec1p1ent the amount and distribution of aid via the packaging procedure; (2) a so- called \no-need\ letter which states that the CSS need analysis has determined that there are sufficient resources within the family to pay the college costs for that year; (3) a .so-called \no-aid\ letter telling the student that although there is a demonstrated financial need and the student is acceptable for admission, the drain on the financial aid funds has been such that the College cannot offer any direct assistance. In addition to the freshmen financial aid awards, the budget for financial aid to transfer D UNION COLLEGE ·PUB RESTAURANT vc ~- . SCHENECTADY, N.V. IZ308 I-10LLOW students has been increasing each year as the College centers some of its attention on this fine group of diverse talents to attract to its campus. Once a financial aid a ward has been offered and accepted, students are compelled to report any outside awards that they receive. Adjustments are made for these following the principle of not allowing aid beyond need, in addition to the federal regulations mentioned in the first paragraph. This practice, common to all colleges, allows for a more equitable and broader distribution of limited financial aid funds. Our next article will discuss the procedures and policies for Upperclass Renewals. What's Cook in' THURSDAY NIGHT The Buffet looks toward the Colonel KENTUCKY FRIED CHICKEN!!!! Mashed potatoes, corn, potato salad, macaroni salad, unlimited salad .bar, hot biscuits, gravy - ALL YOU CAN EAT for $2.99!!!! FRIDAY & SATURDAY NIGHTS STEAK & BREW - regular menu PLUS special seafood plate, only· $4.75 SUNDAY BRUNCH ALL YOU CAN EAT - $1. 75. Eggs, sausage, ham, French toast, lox, bagels, cream cheese, donuts - Bloody Mary's and Screwdrivers, SC)¢ - 10:30-2:30 MONDAY Happ.y Valentine's Day!!! Bring a date to dinner and pay Y2 price for your date!!!

Page6 CJ)]t/CORDIENSIS, Feb. 9, lf!l!_ culture Jay Ungar and Lyn Hardy to play Bluegrass at Carnival \wine and cheese\ coffeehouse. Wine, This Friday evening, February ll, the Union College Coffeehouse in conjunction with the Social Committee will present Lyn and Jay Ungar. Lyn and Jay present contemporary and traditional music on fiddle and Cheese, and Bluegrass guitar. Together they have recorded an album with Philo Records. They have appeared on television, and Jay Ungar is a member of David Bromberg's band. In addition, they are members of the Putnam String Coun'try Band. This performance, which will begin at 10:15 p.m. is part of the Winter Carnival festivities. This is a special \wine and cheese\ coffeehouse which will cost $1.50 at the door. -. --art6 Filnts This· Week FRIDAY, SATURDAY and SuNDAY: \The Seduction ot Mimi.\ Italian woman director Lina WertmuUer's films deal primarily with politics and this early work is a prime example of her skills. She can manipulate ideas the way . a circus artist juggles (in fact, some of her films resemble fellini-Hke circuses). Her films an; scathing attacks on rigid morality, the working class., • the church, govemment and all our human foibles .. · •'The Seduction of Mimi\ is a bitterly funny film, starting Giancarlo Giannini. If you go, be prepared to think as well as laugh. worth seeing for the ironic commentaries written into the script. Favorite line: ''Mother ... .what's the phrase'? .. .isn't herself today.\ A must see movie! One-Man Art Show to Open Feb. 5 TUESDAY: Alfred Hitchcock's \Psycho.\ This is by far the most complex, entertammg an~l popular film that the Master has ever made. Antltony Perkins' performance alone makes the film A one-,man show of monotypes worth seeing again and again. and collages by Robert Reed, Perhaps the most accurate assistant dean .of Yale's Graduate comment on the film was made School of Art, opened Saturday by Hitchcock himself: \I wanted (Feb. 5) at the Schenectady to make a movie that paralleled Museum. The shoW, sponsored by the experience of going through a the Union College Gallery, will fun house.\ He succeeded. There .run through March 20. are plot twists gak)re in this Reed's works reflect his interest thriller about lonely little Norman in the creation ef an .abstract Bates, his hotel, and his strange space. This he does · with mother. Even if the plot is- disjointed planes which play off familiar, the movie is definitely each other in texture .and color. His works have appea_red in shows at the Whitney Museum, Pink Flamingos: Is This Life? the Walker Arts Center, and the Brooklyn Museum, and the Yale Art Gallery. · His works -are made available to the Union College Gallery and Schenectady Museum-courtesy of you an by TODD MILLER Every 4 or 5 years, a skilled director takes what could have been-_ a few '\hours of shallow, glossy celuloid, nurtures it with the balm of sensitive genius, and produces a film with transcends the sum of its parts. Consider, if you win, Francis Ford Coppola's Godfather. It could have been yet another banal ethnic shoot-em-up showcase, full of flashy names and overindulgent Sicilians. However, he wisely chQse to eliminate the pastboard characterizations and unnecessary gunplay typical of most •mobster' flicks; the finished product became a harrowing statement depicting a special ~;,Pntrast between humaness and duty· John Waters, director of Saliva Production's Pink Flamingost has FENCED From yesterday's horizon the verdant green rolls Onward into tomorrow's sunset - ~ ~ infinite, constant, unbroken Save for a row of three white stones And a pine in the position of the fourth Remote, colinear, precise. The stones are neither high nor wide nor round < P They even look like they Belong tllete. Yet you perceive them to be a fence As foreboding as barbed wire to trespass and As harmless as white stones to be invited across. So you stay on your side of the fence, And I'll stay on mine. In Autumn we may see each other Across the fence And smile as if to say, ''Good day.\ We may even pick up the fallen Pine cones together and cheerfully chatter Of our mutual task, when only yesterday We gathered storm-shaken needles In implicit silence. Then again we realize that the white ~tones exist Patiently, silently, harmlessly And yet still you cannot traverse them - For you don't really know what it's like to be A ventriloquist in a windstorm On a plain of dusty green. - Cliff Cohen Send your poems for publication in Fine Lines to: similarly taken what the cnttcs presupposed would be just another gross-me-out film and turned it into a pricelessly entertaining romp through the murky swamps of perversion. Armed with a cast bristling with cinematographic tale1;1t and held back by a paltry budget, Waters created one of those rare slice-of- life pastiches usually reserved for viewing at the Museum of Modern Art. Pink Flamingos explodes onto the screen with a kind of madcap exuberance from the first few feet of footage; it grabs your brain by the rear and bounces it all around your skull. It leaves the normal viewer both emotionally and intestinally drained, thus making the tragedy of Ray and Connie Marble a riveting catha1tic experience. Granted, a ferocious battle for the title, \The Filthiest People in the World,\ might have limited social applications. Granted, chaining young women in a cellar, having them raped by a homosexual butler named Channing, and selling the resultant babies to lesbian couples could be construed as offensive. I would further concede that a 300- pound transvestite named Divine does not represent your typical bridge club member. Come to think of it, the film does dip to new lows in grottyness at several points. But how could you fault the preformance of that quixotic standard bearer for poultry farmers everywhere, the Egg Man; what eye remained unstained by tears during Edie's- moving ''Babs, what if there are no more eggs\ soliloquy'! And who in the audience did not experience a triumphant chill when Ray and Connie were executed for •assholiness' by the long-suffering Divine · and her creepy couterie? Even the .rugby team appeared emotionally exhausted, which gives inkliJ:tg of the film's -overall Washburn Gallery, Inc. ·of New York. They will -be displayed in iml?act. h it life? No; for although a:rt may be the mirror of life, Pink Flamingos is one of those rare films which has been known to shatter that mirror. If you haven't seen it, see it. If you have, see a the Museum's Brought0n Gallery. psychiatrist. _ The Schenectady. Museum is open 10 a.m. ·_tQ . 4;30 _ p.m. Tuesday thr-Ougb Friday and from noon to 5 p.m. on Saturday and Sunday .. .Tbe.r~.is ito charge for a<l.mi.Jisiori to· .tlie show. '-. . . ',_:-' \;:' Linda & Robin Williams at last week's Coffeehouse: Coffeehouse Reviewed On Tuesday, February I, the Union College Coffeehouse presented one of their finest performances given there in recent years. Robin and Linda Williams, with the able assistance of dobro player Mike Cass, kept the audience glued to their seats with their flawless pla_yiJ!g and sparkling wit. Despite sound system troubles during tile fitst set, the trio wowed the audience records. With back-up help from some friends, they perform a fine collection .of traditional and contemporary tuni;:s. Their intricate harmonies produce a smooth and relaxing sound. A second album, also ~n ASI, is forthcoming· ...---------------•• with fatlltless vocals and virtuoso performances on guitar, banjo, A,pply NOW for Fall Terms in 1 .... , .. 6 ........ ·, France, and Italy! Information and application Cultun needs writers. All interested, contact the Cultural Editor. Box. 1025. Phone 370- and dobro. for all \Union Terms Abroad,\ as well as-for other foreign study, are available in Humanities 2LI. Delaune Stageman, Fine Lines Editor, Box 1738. Any legible work accompanied by the author's name and phone no. is welcome. If requested, poems will be printed unsigned or with a pseudonym. Questions or . com.me.nts. also welcome;. We want to hear from you! 6515. 4 ~ --------------~ Robin and Linda's album, which is simply called Robin and Linda Willialds, is on AS I J•.:t.~-~ -·---·~ •. • ~, ~~· .,. ,..., ----- What star Spr.ings at Ali disprov4 labelled and rol guy.\ T one th await;ed dozens attende< one-half though, of utter Be for' hundred gathere( front oJ much a~ seats. apparen quickly headed a delici- -unlimit scrumpt . where Tile e ruined announ< officials able to 1 for the replaced classical trifling undetect students percepti, guy on less, did more fa announc and not was.·to ~ p.m., I(J arrived t On th ·that will the Mo1 productio .. Twelfth dozen act Joe Mi: Malvolio, Brui;e Cc Toby Eef, sttet~hing syllables , words. ~ the play's -series of ( . DireGIOi from the surrounds .. Start WOJ he cornma

f f I t t rt f 11 l, e e e d If N n '. lS 1. n d If ,m ine nd eir a ;I, n ,! n IS :r 10 CON(;__ORDlENSIS, Feb. 9. 197~ · Page 7 --·~-~~~~~--------~--~~~~~~~~------------~--~----~~ culture Disappointed FaJI Reviews Springsteen by Sham~ Kilpatrowitz What can one say about a rock star who isn't? Bruce Springsteen's appearance Monday at Albany's Palace Theatre disproved rumors that have labelled him ''the future of rock and roll\ and ''a basically nice guy.\ The concett in Albany was one that had been anxiously awaited by the hundreds of dozens of Union students who attended. All that their six-and~ one-half dollars brought them, though, was more than two hours of utter bor-edom. Before the concert began, hundreds of ticketless fans gathered in the chilled street in front of the theatre. Offered as much as $65 for a pair of balcony seats. many Union students, apparently gifted. with ESP, quickly sold their tickets and headed to the Cranberry Bog for a delicious meal complete with unlimited salad _ bar and scrumptious cranberry muffins .. . where was I? Oh, yes. The evening's per.formance was ruined by a small thing: the announcement by Palace Theatre officials, that Bruce would not be able to make it to Albany in time for the show and would be replaced by his brother Larry, a classical musician. While this trifl'ing substitution went undetected by most Union students in attendance, several perceptive fans noticed that the guy ·on s.tage, beardless and cap- less, did not look anything like his more famous ·sibling. Still, the an;nouncement that it was Larry, . and not Bruce, Springsteen who was.·tc appear was made at 6:30 p.m., long before anyone had arrived to hear it. Springsteen's forte was, unlike his brother, -effective Brahms' lullabies and the ballads of Bela Bartok. While cheering fans begged for \Jungleland\ and \Rosalita Springsteen stuck to the music he was most familiar with ancl promptly put much of the audience to sleep. Those Who did manage to retain consciousness booed loudly or watched the antics of irate Bruce- fan/ Union student Roy Zuckerburg. Having caught ort to the substitution · almost immediately, Zuckerburg began slamming the bars of the balcony, cooing gently \Kill that phoney!\ l-Ie was subdued only by the efforts of twenty Albany County Riot Police who, as they carried the maniac off, were heard to say \This ain't the first time we've had to drag this guy off to the looney bin.\ In other last minute substitutions, Bruce's ace saxophonist Clarence Clemmons was replaced by New York Yankee second baseman Willie Randolph. In songs normally requiring solo instrumentals, Randolph refused, and would only field infield grounders instead. The frustrated crowd did not even react to the replacement of guitarist Miami Steve Zandt with late Russian poet Maxim Gorky, who did a passable Job on the guitar, considering it was· his first time, but could only .play \Glow Worm.\ Albany mayor Erastus Coming's emotional performance· on the keyboards, su~stituting for band-nn:mber Roy Bittan, went unnoticed by the confused· audience. While many local critics have Will the real Bruce Springsteen please stand up? Last minute substitutions presented rock fans with a boring classical concert . labelled the concert \a waste,\ \dopey \the biggest ripoff since the invention of toll roads,\ or even \suspicious the majority of Union fans in attendance were shocked to learn that it was not, indeed, Bruce who had performed. \That wasn't an electric guitar?\ asked senior Steve Loren, indicating an on- stage grand piano. According to one puzzled boy, who insisted on remaining anonymous, it was an even greater shock to learn that there was no \king\ or even \assistant King\ in a theatre named the Palace. ( Coneordiensis does not withhold names. Your name is Matt Lubart.) In a last ditch effort to awaken modelled some of his more his com at o s e audience, distasteful fashions, including a Springsteen stopped the mus1c to black Calvin Klein satin shirt, tell some really interesting \Tales summer pantsuit, with matching of the Jersey Swamps.\ He yellow \cool\ hat, proclaiming \I mentioned how the absent will be the latest on Fifth saxophonist Clemmons had Avenue\ before also disappearing always wanted a white suit - and from the building. how, in a mystical, \arty\ flash, Despite the absence of the lead he was wearing one. Springsteen act, and the annoying ,antics of then added a charming story of the replacements, most concert- his own dreams, which involved goers were of the opinion that his life-long desire to be the night they had had a great time. Portly manager of a Jack in the Box in Jeff Morgensteen temarked that Deal, New Jersey; at this point the concert was \Terrific adding Springsteen mysteriously that he couldn't believe anyone disappeared from the building. · could play the piano With their During this heart~rendering scene, left hand without looking \like a Miami Steve (or whoever) girl.\ Morgensteen, a freshman at Union. is believed to be a male. Warm up for \Twelfth Night\ Most Union students felt that the concert was \very musical\ or \almost as long as a movie.\ Said one: \Even though rock and roll did not make it to the Palace Theatre tonight, at least I got to try out my snow tires and see the Mall.\ On the rectangular platform ·that will serve as the stage· when the Mo11ntebanks open their production of Shakespeare's .. Twelfth Night\ Feb. 25, half a dozen actors are behaving oddly. Joe Millet, who will play Malvolio, is shadow-boxing. Bruce C()hen, who will be Sir Toby Eelch, is holding a sword, sttetohing, and uttering loud syllables which gradually become words. Margatet~Ann Maloney, the play's Maria, is engaged in a ·series of ex0tic contortions. . DireGtor Barry Smith watches ·from the ring of darkness which surrounds the brightly lit stage. ''Start working with .sound now,\ he co111.martds. It is as though the Nott Memorial Theater were suddenly accupied by an orchestra of voices tuning up for a bizarre composition calling for, among other things, a jungle bird, fog horn, and Italian songster. Bizarre as the scene may seem to the unprepared observer, the actors are actually involved in an important patt of the theater experience - the warm-up. It is in this 15 or 20 minute period, s~ys Smith, that actors \must find their relaxation so they can take on the roles of their characters.\ \A ballet dancer wouldn't try what he or she does without warming up. Nor would an athlete. lt's no different for actors. Actors must warm ·Up physically, mentally, and vocally. They have to get all the a~demic demands and personal concerns out of their systems. Otherwise, they can~t fully take on the part. •• An actor, s~ys Smith, is unlike a musician or a writer in that an actor does not produce the medium. \The actor IS the medium;\ he says. \If the medium is flawed, then the entire character is flawed and the production suffers. lf the characters are meeting not as real people with real emotions, but rather as preconceptions, then you are missing something vital.\ If the college had a- regular training program, as a number of schools do, that taught student actors the process of assuming a theatrical role and, to give them regular practice in it, Smith says he would attach less importance -to the group warm-up. As it is, an appreciable share of the effort of each production must be devoted to the exercises aimed at helping the actors get a grip on the characters they are portraying. While the beginning of each rehearsal is set aside for warming up, it is often hard to distinguish ~hen the warm-up has ended and the formal practice begins. In the middle of a scene, for instance, Smith may command the characters to drop their Shakespearean lines and express the thought or feeling in their own words. Or he'll have two characters switch parts. Or he'll i1.1terrupt to ask an actor what his or her character is thinking. Each of these tactics is intended to take the actors deeper into their ow.n roles and to better understand their interaction with the other characters in the play. Another common command Smith gives his actors is, \Bre~the!\ In doing so, he is not merely reminding them to respirate. Rather, he is urging them to breathe fully into the stomach, as a singer does, not into the lungs. Such breathing helps the actor relax, and relaxation is critical in taking on a character. It is also an important aid in voice projection. The ultimate object, Smith says, \is to get to the point where the warm-up and acting are the same.\ In an ~effort to understand the reasons behind the illegal substitutions, Con~ordiensis managed to corner Mr. Springsteen at the stage exit of the theatre. His only remark was . \Outa my way, sucker ... \ l tell ya, such blatant disregard for one's audience is enough to make ya get up :~,nd leave town. Which is what we'll have to do if this article is ever printed. Seeya next concert, wingnuts! Meyer to Display Costumes For the remainder of the term, Donna Meyer, the guest costumer for the production of Twelfth Night, will have a display of her work in the lobby of the Nott Memorial. The display includes sketches and color plates, of all the costumes she has designed and made for various productions. Some of these productions include Platan(Jv, by Chekov, Duel of Angels. by Jean Giroudoux, Hedda Gabler, by Ibsen, and the play form of Pride and Prejudice,· by Jane Austen. Also included in the display are several examples of practical exams she has taken for the Parson's School of Design· and United Scenic Artists. These tests include costumes for an imaginary television special starring Elton John and the Pointer Sisters. As well as being elaborate. and characteristically · ·prnate, the costumes have been designed to coordinate with a Bicentennial Theme. The result is extraordinary. The other sketches and color plates reflect an older style of dress. Many of the productions that Donna has worked on called for costumes from the late 1800's and the early 1900's, and many ate displayed in this exhibit. All of these designs are fully equipped with full length d-resses, petticoats, top hats, and waist-coats; and they reflect a beautiful combination of talent and imagination, The display will be up until the end of the term and the Nott is open all day, Monday through Friday.

Page8 CONCORDIENSIS; Feb. 9, 197~ =t . EDITORIALS Involvement As the second term of the year begins to close, many. of the organizations which !lerve this campus are rediscovering the pressures of student apathy and indifference. In general, service organizations cannot \ontinue to provide this campus with . communicational services, entertainment,and culture if the majority of this campus' members do not begin to display some ofthe zeal which they all professed on their entrance applications. · . _Ma!!Y students enter this community with impressive l>ackgrounds as high school paper: edit0rs, yearbo0k editors, band and orchestra members, and a complete gambit of extracurricuhlr clubs and activitie$. However, when it comes time tofind a pair of new editors for a paper or even to find a truely reliable staff of associates outside of the realm of friendships, the challenge cannot be met by the high caliber of students found on this campus. What has happened to the high school leaders of yesterday and ~he professionals of the future. Are all of these people so caught up m their own endeavors that public activities must be pushed aside or is this an attitude wbich has been instilled in many .of Union's students: specifically, me first. If this attitude is fact, then the role of all .. non-profit\ organizations (in a personal sense) are doomed to die from hick of human-resources. lntel·lectualism College symbolizes the embodiment of the academic ideal. It sometimes seems as if the only purpose in the twelve preceding years of schooling is preparation for .. higher education.\ Coming from a high school setting, the entering freshmen have every right, perhaps even an obligation and responsibility, to expect the best learning experience which a college can afford. College should be the penultimate in education and enlightenment. Academic freedom, personal interest, and learned, able professors should blend Into a cacaphony of dynamic intellectual activity. All the ingredients are present and bursting with the desire for express1<m. Yet, in reflecting on years spent at Union, we find a distressing dearth of academic activity on campus. The Collage is suffering from a severe absence of intellectualism on the part of the entire campus community. Students seem almost uniformly unmotivated in pursuing academic ends that are not directly related to grades, and professors, while continuing studies in their own fields, often are negligient as teachers and stimulators ·of interest. · The faculty and administration, moreover, have failed to take the needed initiative in inspiring intellectualism outside of the classroom situation. Academic programs themselves; with some notable exceptions, remain stagnant. When the greatest campus polemic is on athletics, something is dreadfully wrong. The sparks of academe caused by various symposiums and groups on campus have not kindled any larger movement within the College as a whole. The dynamic theory of education implicit in the concept of college has not materialized at Union. Why this is so, we cannot say. Something, however, is missing. r --:_ \_ ~-~4~ ::.\' '' . I Editors·in-chief ................................................. .how~~: laJ~, mike rotondi News editor . .... . . ... .. .. .... .. ..... . .. . . . . . . . ... . .... andy mitchell matt brief Features editors.................. . . ......... mmam da\td, andrea certtlman Culture edttor; . fern flomenhaft joe millett Sports editors.... . ... daim) wojnilower, del> hie pnleth> Copy edttor .. . . todd miller Bu>tnes' manager' barbara 'tern, marla lux. harm halpcn Clas,tfted' edttot ... martha ruben,tctro Sub,crtplt<ln' edt tor. . harm hal pert l.<J~nut edtl<>\ JOC e<tppucw. nan<:) murphv l'hoto~raph~ edtltll' 'te\t\ grtll,J<Hl:llc'cher l'hot\ '>tall barr) dthcrnardt~.jelllPrlll.tfl A1t eJ1t(•r Pnctr~ n1thll \t;t! I t ht\ l'o\llC ~ry leucrman. JOe tauher lhtcr \\-t'l\\ dl'lall!lc..: --r.t_gnn.an hr ,od ~c\kr ~at hy ~rcctJ karen lee ~tr\11 rn.u~n\.\llt. ~c l'ubilll!Jl.l 'naron ca'nnll./arn m•tt ltth;ut nmJ\· \antna lmda ,trauhc. l\nih1;1 .. tratHHI. 'cth \\I) 11, patti n\oran '\' ~twdmah rr<.h txrtukcr < Ill>< 0 IHIH ..,..,,.., ;, pul>h,hcd \'\ 1\ •·•lr~e\la> b~ I h•· '\\l•·nl body of Inion ( ullegr, Old l,}m !igli. '><·hen~rtad} . ...,, . ..., I uri.; tu which l'ost•l .. UrAl' .\~7'1 arr dirrr t•d; l'ul>ltration.. orne~: The Jrwtsll \'orld l'ubh.cotiun,, 416 ..,rnilh ..,;., \dtrnH tad 1, .., . I . I 2.10~ (.H(}.'WII.l}. l.nterrd tn the ',ch•nertadl p.,,, Orlirr \' ..,rnmd ( \\' \l•llrr. '>uwription Rate 1~ rrnt' per 'np1, \Ill • ,ear !lt'lhPrrd an) where in the I. nited Mate11. ' ~ ' • t , • < f J ~ ' , I ' < , • • • ,• ' ,' • Arts, Athletics, A,lumrli by MATt BRIEF - AN EDUCATIONAL THE ARTS Once upon .a time, there were many people on this campus the President, he did not expect CQncerned with Union's Art its recommendations to go agairt~t Program. lt was. felt that if Union his .personal beliefs. PHILOSOPHY· This column will rtof tak~· a stand on NESCAC-Division 1. Dr .. Bonner with his alumni ' expected to be recognized as a quality Liberal Arts institution, Tomorrow, the All-'College an Arts program, commensurate Senate will debate and determine in strength with Union's other campus procedures on dealing d~padments had to be develol'ed. with the Task force Report. One wonders why the Senate is · politicking is doing all ·he can, short of acting like a· . campus political potentate,· to undermine the Ta~k Force's findings. However, this whole' .sequeric<r of events rushing the Athletit'~epon to the fore and forcing tlie Arts ltepott to the background represents something very wrong with Union · College, · Union Universi.ty, Uniyersity 'o.f Schenectady, or whatever . one wants to call ·Dr. Bonner's comprehensive college. Last year's Student Forum · charging full speed ahead with the made the develoj>tllent of the Arts Athletic T as~ Force Report, but Jimgram its number one priority. allows the Arts Report to gather An Arts. Symposium was dust in desk drawers. organized and most importantly, ·the Administration invited a dis~jnguished group of outside Arts consultants to assess Union's Arts programs and make recommendations for the future. Their report was published by the beginning of this academic year. It was submitted to the campus and quickly forgotten by major decision-makers on campus. To date, five months since its release, the All-College Senate has ignored the report. ATHLETICS After the idea of the Arts Consultants was proposed, Dr. Banner formed his Athletic Task Force. Chaired by the Acting Athletic Director Thomas Kershner (who later resigned shortly after the release of the report), Dr. Bonner expected the Task Force to view Athletics at Union on the whole, including the question of NESCAC and Divisien I. The Athletic Task Force Report was released at the beginning of this term. The NESCAC - Division 1 section took up more space than all other issues (women's sports, athletic facilities, etc.) dealt with in the report. Dr. Bonner has publicly come out against the conclusions of the -Task Force. It is safe to say that the Task Force backfired on ALUMNI Much of the Athletic controversy has centered around the Alumni, particularly the Alumni Council. The Athletic . Task Force Report has been circulated amongst key Alumni and opinions sought,- the Arts · Report received no such circulation. Recently, a letter was sent to Robert Rasmussen, Head of Development, President Bonner, and Student Trustee Andy Koblenz by a very valuable alumnus. Bruce Dow.nsborough, Class of '75, Winner of Union's Daggett Prize, Head Alumni Agent for his class, second year law student, and member of Law Review at Colorado Law School, authored the letters. His comments are perceptive. Bruce questions why key alumni received the Athletic Report and not the Arts Report. His letter can only be quoted, '\Here is a sul>ject (the Arts} of profound influence to the future of the school and its ability to attract studellts of the highest caliber ... Yet l didn't receive a copy of this report and my opinions :ltave not been solicited I cannot comprehend why my opinion should suddenly be of any greater value when the . subject is athletics.\ - : ··,J ·-·.- ·: : .. : ·. ;~ .:; ~: .. ~., -:~ .. ··r· ··.·:i; ... E· · ., .. ·~, ..... £·· ·~·a:· ····s;· ·. ·. . . .• . . · .• ' ' j ~- '{>. . Every undergraduate college needs to have an educational philosophy, an. educational· mission. Union co~tinues to pay lip service to the needs of the Fine Arts. Same even question whether \Liberal Arts\ ·college is a misnomer. There is no doubt Athletics is the dominant issue on campus. Conducted with integrity, · an increased Athletic program will do much to increase the visibility of Union. However, it is more important to shy . away from hucksterism and work towards a true Liberal Arts en:vin;mment. If we are assuming education is paramount ·at Union (one hopes this is the primary topic of discussion at Union), rather than how to make Union famous, what is more important? The futurtt: of Fine Arts at Union College and its intellectual benefits or the future of athletics and its public relation benefits? The Senate, Dr. Bonner, and campus leaders have an obligation to discuss the Arts R-eport on a level as exhaustive as the Athletic Task Force Report. Rational discussion of the future of Athletics is healthy:, rational discussion ,of the Arts at Union is mandatory. .. _·•: :. : Edi1 To the: The • ' ,_ ... f Newsr.·. Ol!ring C~QC91 unfor.tur .pof~cies . point · t nothing back war in .the cplumn Matt.Br Night. r S..l;lake-u replies' · ~hat . W( couple o unvelate' hand, w new& pap know 01 Part Concord probabll laughii eJ~;.pressit some tendenci writers. Geek,\ Also, in contrary jokes re: did the homoseJ \Homo \Dead consciot abvious is a ver) attitude place in to prefei The ec of res ••Persom not go1 desire forward' called fc the m · referehc! physical inteUc itr;:··:iPC:Beti ., • .{l'tis ; :c ::~' :;ey~r;y ,,~;Jtea;tbJ \\·''''~e .. ·CWRtt , j,_Jfo~ .,.~,tes~ ·~ '1 •1 • : : ' ·-. ~- ~ ~- .... , .\i ' .,,.,fq~! ~.· ·tlo· tl . 'An· 0 (Jol~l . ·.; < fit: ~xp~e~ : ,:'->:;jl~~, · regar<l . ~ub. ~ ' tQ.~Qt . ,, ·to ·.·ci · ·. \fac.u. ' ·::· ;'~~~~; \' a~a· ( :~on<lu ..•... cv.urt~ ... tiJ.ete . ·; ~<;·:.;f:~[!s:

,. Page8 CONCORDIENSIS, Feb. 9, 1977 EDITORIALS Involvement As the second term of the year begins to close, many of the organizations which serve this campus are rediscovering tlte pressures of student apathy and indifference. In general, service organizations cannot continue to provide this campus with communicational services, entertainment,and cultme if the majority of this campus' members do not begin to display some ofthe zeal which they all professed on their entrance applications. Mai!Y students enter this community with impressive 'backgrounds as high school paper editors, yearbook editors, bane and orchestra members, and a complete gambit of extracurricular clubs and activities. However, when it comes time to find a pair of new editors for a paper or even to find a truely reliable staff of associates outside of the realm of friendships, the challenge cannot be met by the high caliber of students found on this campus. What has happened to the high school leaders of yesterday and the professionals of the future. Are al:l of these people so caught up in their own endeavors that public activities must be pushed aside or is this an attitude which has been instilled in many of Union's students: specifically, me first. If this attitude is fact, then the role of all .. non-profit\ organizations (in a personal sense) are doomed to die from hick of human-resources. Intellectualism College symbolizes the embodiment of the academic ideal. It sometimes seems as if the only purpose in the twelve preceding years of schooling is preparation for \higher education.\ Coming from a high school setting, the entering freshmen have every right, perhaps even an obligation and responsibility. to expect the best learning experience which a college can afford. College should be the penultimate in education and enlightenment. Academic freedom, personal interest, and learned, able professors should blend into a cacaphony of dynamic intellectual activity. All the ingredients are preserit and bursting with the desire for expresswn. Yet, in reflecting on years spent at Union, we find a distressing dearth of academic activity on campus. The College is suffering from a severe absence of intellectualism on the part of the entire campus community. Students seem almost uniformly unmotivated in pursuing academic ends that are not directly related to grades, and professors, while continuing studies in their own fields, often are negligient as teachers and stimulators of interest. The faculty and administration, moreover, have failed to take the needed initiative in inspiring intellectualism outside of the classroom situation. Academic programs themselves, with some notable exceptions, remain stagnant. When the greatest campus polemic 1s on athletics, something is dreadfully wrong. The sparks of academe caused by various symposiums and groups on campus have not kindled any larger movement within the College as a whole. The dynamic theory of education implicit in the concept of college has not materialized at Union. Why this is so, we cannot say. Something, however, is missing. Editors-in-chief ............................................... ..howi.e lax, mike rotondi News editor .................................................... andy mitchell matt brief Features editors ..................................... mmam davtd, andrea cerlllman Culture editors .............................................. .fern flomenhaft joe millett Sports editors ...................................... danny wojmlower, debbie polettG Copy edtter....................................................... ..... . ....... todd nuller Bu~mes~ managers ..................... barbara >tern, marla lux. harn> halperr Clas>theds ed11or ... . ................... . .............. martha rubemtein Sub,cnptwn~ edllor .... . .......... ..... .. . .. harn; halpert La; out edt tor,. .JOC cappucto. nanc; murphy Photograph; ed1t01' . 'tc\e gnll. Jon lle,cher Photo '>tall . barr) dthernardo. Jell lorman Art editor Pnclr~ ed11(1r '>taft th\ 1\ue cary feuerman. JOe tau her ]t ... ter v.t:l'~' delannr ,l,rg~m•m brad kc\ler. kathy greco karen lee dOll mar\nl'.ltl. ~ !ubliuUJ.l 'naron canmnaro matt luhart cmdy vantna linda 'trauhe . c \nth 1a a r <~11<>11. ;cth 11\!\ n. patti moran 1ra goodman ( .Jicl1ddr nch hcrn1kcr ( U'-< ORIJH.\'\''\' •~ publi,hed r>t•n \\ednr,da~ h~ the •tudrnt body of l nion ( ullege. Old (,~m Hall, O.,chrnectnd~. '•\ \uri.; tu which Postal ~orm~ .\~79 are din-cted. l'uhhcatiun• Off1cr: l he Jrwis.li \o\urld Publication~. 416 O.,mtth .._!., \rhenrctnd). '·'. IHO~ (370-~.~~ ~.ntfrt>d in thl\ :O.chenrctad~ I'\'' Offict> a' :-.econd { Ia'' \hllrr \uwnptum Hate \<. on!\ per <\I\· '\.Ill a Har de(IH<rd IO),.htr• 1n tnr I niiHI..,Ialr' Arts, Athletics, Alumni THE ARTS by MATT BRIEF AN EDUCATIONAL PHILOSOPHY Once upon a time, there were many people on this campus concerned with Union's Art Program. It was felt that if Union expected to be recognized as a quality Liberal Arts institution, an Arts program, cotnmensura·te in strength with Union's other ~epartments had to be developed. Last year's Student Forum made the development of the Arts fdOgram its number one priority. An Arts Symposium was organized and most importantly, ·the Administration invited a distinguishecl group of outside Arts consultants to assess Union's Arts programs and make Fecommendations for the future. the President, he did not expect its recommendations to go against his personal beliefs. Tomorrow, the All-College Senate will debate and determine campus pr-ocedures on dealing with the Task Force Report. One wonders why the Senate is charging fulil speed ahead with the Athletic Task Force Report, but allows the Arts Report to gather dust in desk drawers. ALUMNI M 11ch of the Athletic controversy has centered around the Alumni, particu,Jarly the Alumni Council. The Athletic Task Force Report has been circulated amongst key Alumni and opinions sought, the Arts Report received no such ciFculation. This column will not take a stand on NESCAC-Divi.gion I. Dr. Bonner with his alumni · politicking is doing aU he can, short of acting like a campus political potentate, to undermine the Task Force~s findings However, this whole sequence of events rushing the Athletic report to the fore and forcing the Arts Report to the background represents something very wrong with Union College, Union University, University of Schenectady, or whatever one wants to call Dr. Bonner's comprehensive college. Tlteir report was published by the beginning of this academic year. It was submitted to the campus and quickly forgotten by major decision-makers on campus. To date, five months since its release, the All-College Senate has ignored the report. ATHLETICS After the idea of the Arts Consultants was proposed, Dr. Bonner formed his Athletic Task force. Chaired by the Acting Athletic Director Thomas Kershner (who later resigned shortly after the release of the report), Dr. Bonner expected the Task force to view Athletics at Union on the whole, including the question of NESCAC and Division I. The Athletic Task Force Report was released at the beginning of this term. The NESCAC - Division I section took up more space than an other issues (women's sports, athletic facilities, etc.) dealt with in the report. Dr. Bonner has publicly come out against the conclusions of the-Task Force. It is safe to say that the Task Force backfired on pres's message · To the Editors: It seems to me that Union College has in one sense reached the end of the line. By never having taken the time or the pain to define ourselves as a small liberal arts college and then being somewhat concrete as to what that means, we have finally twisted the word ••college\ around so that it no longer has any meaning. There is, in fact, no such thing as the \comprehensive college\ President Bonner outlined in his recent report to the trustees. What is outlined in the report is normally referred to as a university, and more closely resembles Rochester than anything m our catalogue. to as a university, and more closely resembles Rochester than anything in our · catelogue, This, however, is far from the first time this semantic difficulty has arisen. In reality, many of the problems the · community has had deciding : dtl questions such as Comp. .Ed., the Arts, and Athletics stem from the fact that we don't have a ve:cy good idea of what we ate, or what we ought to be. lt's simply very hard to know what \me.ans\ to employ when you haven•t decided on the ''ends\ you want to achieve. And so it is not neatly Recently, a letter was sent to Robert Rasmussen, Head of Development, President Bonner, and Student Trustee Andy Koblenz by a very valuable alumnus. Bruce Downsborough, Class of '75, Winner of Union's Daggett Prize, Head Alumni Agent for his dass, second year law student, and member of Law Review at Colorado Law School, authored the letters. His comments are perceptive. Bruce questions why key alumni received the Athletic Report and not the Arts Report. His letter can only be quoted, \Here is a subject (the Arts) of profound influence to the future of the school and its ability to attract students of the highest caliber ... Yet I didn't receive a copy of this report and my opinions have not been solicited I cannot comprehend why my opinion should suddenly be of any greater value when the subject is athletics.\ LETTERS he does here in attempting to \encourage discussion\ throw . out to the community a series of possible courses of action whose implications are absolutely staggering. Instead, he must first define his terms, thereby giving the diverse community membership ~ommon ground on which to discuss, fruitfully, the issues at hand. Sincerely, Drew Lianopoulos swim•ers ~/o The Editors '79 To Union College Swim Tf!am Members - I feel that I owe you more than these Words ot tribute; however, may I offer you these comments in respe~t. I can only respect you when I realize that after several months of extremely bard practice you have yet to show a win ~ but more important you are a team of 20 individuals ...- yes, the same 20 that started, the 20 tltat report for .practice each day. No one has quit because .of the team's record. I <ean only respect you when I reatiZe that you · are not d'isheartened when you realize that your efforts will not capture a local he(J:dline or tbat you are accepted at best as a minor sport athlete -- that n'lafly students would Mt even to Every undergraduate college needs to have an educational philosophy, an educational mission. Union continues to pay lip service to the needs of the Fine Arts. Some even question whether \Liberal Arts\ college is a misnomer. There is no doubt Athletics is the dominant issue on campus. Conducted with integrity, an increased Athletic program will do much to increase the visibility of Union. However, it is more important to shy away from hucksterism and work towards a true Liberal Arts environment. If we are assuming education i~ paramount at Union (one hopes this is the primary topic of discussion at Union), rather than how to make Union famous, what is more important? The future of Fine Arts at Union College and its intellectual benefits or the future of athletics and its public relation benefits? The Senate, Dr. Bonner, and campus leaders have an obligation to discuss the Arts R-eport on a level as exhaustive as the Athletic Task Force Report. Rational discussion of the future of Athletics is healthy, rational discussion of the Arts at Union is mandatory. you perform. I can only · respect you each day when you repbrt fo'r a grueling 3 hour practice. Rewards are · min·or ··for swimmers however, as the rewards· a:te in'iern'al.' I sincerely feel , that your rewards are much mote real. Your improvement of times clearly demonstrate the internal rewards. I sincerely believe that the 1977 Union Varsity Swimming Team is the finest 20 swim team members that Union has had in years and l desi~ to make known my respects. (;(Jach Bob Magee tax dissatisfae'ti&n To the Editor$! Two weeks ·ago, in Concordien$is, the PRE HEAL iH SOCIEtY addressed itself te the student body. We pointed out that ev,¢n though we have a ~onstitution and · have bee11 pr~viously funded, the· student tax board has reftised to meet . With. U$. W~.)iil_v~ ' requeste<i such a meeting· -vetbally, and we have expressed c)ur dissatis· faction throughrtur.pt'ess. Jt is obvious to u~ that the student government is dodging the issue by tefusin~ to answer us either verbally, or itt writing. ln ou~ opi~jon~ 'tlle st!I<lent government it' ·· · · · the ca.m tli$·;· ·r T Edi To the The News?\ During Cone(] unforttJ policies point no thin! backwa in the celumn MattE Night Shake-1 replies that \' couple unrelat• hand, ' newspa know r Part Concor probab laughi express some tendenc writers. Geek,\ Also, i contrar jokes r• did the homos~ \Homo \Dead conscio obviou: IS a ver attitude place i1 to pref< The 4 of re \Persor not g( des ire forwar< called f the r. refercn< physica in tel . ~xpeJ ·this ev~ry .,bea.d W• C91Jll Foru respe fat c/o 1 An 4 Co lit I ; ex pre gene1 the regar .Pub. to yc to ( \Faci RiJ apol< and coiid-· court there ptofe in p~ their · obntt. If~ eat a.J the J . you < .and< ''Studl! . . .-~ .. ~~~0. '

CONCORDIENSIS~ Feb. 9, 1977 T:wo\ Views on the· Editor Editorial Faults To the Jl:dltors: , T~~ , e~itorial entitied \No NewsT'. !,le~etves · a response, During the ,pfJ.st · few . i.ssues, CPIJC~rd,y, has made an unfm.titn1:1.te. play ~f editorial pohcies. ai1d humor articles that poipt ·to an . attitude that is nothing s.bort of reactionary. This h'ackwar(Js ~tance is most obvio1.1s in . the mercifully short-lived cplumn called \Ask the Geek\ Matt. Brief's llrticle of \Thursday Night. Dead,'' and the _\'Personal S.bake-up\ article. The editoriat replies· tc;> the protesting letters that . were printed in the last couple of weeks were pretty tnuch unrelated to the real _issue at h~tnd, which was this: How can a . new!lpap.er with attitudes like this know news when it sees it? Part . of the lack of news Concordy complains about is probably the lack of things worth laughing at. Concorq_y's e~pression of humor has revealed some. bigoted and sadistic tendencies on the part of th~ writers. The jokes in .. Ask the Geek,\ were feally inexcusable. Also, in spite of promises to the contrary, sick little Gary GilmQre jokes reared their ugly heads. So did the occasional snide slur on homosexuality: I don't think the \Homo and Twatson'' line in \Dead Dies Tonight\ was consciously derogatory, but it's ebvious that behind those words is a very provincial attitude. This attitude towards. humor has no place in a newspaper that claims to prefer \innovative change.\ The editorial replies to the rash of responses followi.ng the .. Personnel Shake-up\ article are not going to aid Concordy's desire for th.e \movement forward\ that last week's issue called for. The article that started the mess made irrelevant ·reference to Nancy Smith's physical condition, and the letters sent in were written by people who were well .. justified in their annoyance, Concordy's answers to these letters were insolent, defensive, and downright snotty. Any newspaper that can't recqgnize in titself the possibility of sexist attitudes when it has ?e(!n accus.ed by so rna\'~ p~;:ople 1s .not gomg to make ( lt as a bar-ometer for social ' change. Neither is a newspaper that still thinks thumbtack -on .. the-sea t humor is funny. If Concordy changes these regrettable attitudes, the writers and editors might bump into some of that \m\issing news.\ God Save Sincerely, Sally Eckhoff the Editor To the Editors: For years, the riddle .of the publishing houses' tenet, \No author is a hero to his editor\ evaded satisfactory solution to my mind. \One who prepares copy for publication,\ reads part of many definitions 0f the word, 'Editor.' I never realized how much the word, \prepare could encompass. My Editor is a hero to his author now. An article, whicb. I had written for an edition of Concordiensis (and. submitted for publication with little time invested), was masterfully purified by an editor. The evening of the papers' publication found my yearning for the \Clydesdales' Nectar\ strong enough to warrant my venturing out to th~ Pub (for a change). I saw the copies of Concordiensis on the table, took one, and read (hoping to see my article in print). If I didn't r~cognize the title of the work, I wo~ldn't have known it was mine. -I couldn't identify my writing, because it was lean, effective, and balanced. I don't write ldm, effective, or balanced anything • I rarely do anything balanced to be sure! I hope our renders appreciate the verbiage filter. l do. (l must be saved from myself). . The moral of this story is not the profile of a sycophant, but, tather, the unveiling of the opportunities open for aU students to air their views, regardless of their talent with language. 'I have come away enthused and hopeful. (You may breathe near the same excitement and seize it!) Your thoughts. or ideas will be crystalized and cleared. {You will see the marvelous transformation of your thoughts and ideas into effective passages), and you will be enriched with the subsequent, unavoidable learning process. Your mistakes will glare in your memory of the Ms., bnt they will rapidly fade in the creation of each successive Ms. submitted, until you, the admirer of the Editor, find the same source of pride. in yourself. Spring will be arriving soon and could be vastly enriched with an added personal satisfaction. Allow your editor to improve you, and' communicate your thoughts to us. You may discover that, during depression tension, especially, writing may serve you through catharsis or purgation. Share your thoughts with those many others like you, learn from each other, and learn from yourself; . K ~ God save the?·! Editor. Sincerely, Chris 'Harding student opportunities To the: 'Editors: · ~~what noubtes me is that this College 'eXists fot 'th~ . . admini!!ltration, not its students.H lm,mediately ·f<t.Ue>w1ng thi$ popular declaration there usually are S'ev,eral: a) swearin.g affirma#ons.; . b) silent. • contempla~ive nods and pursed · Htu ac~t:lmpanied by a sideward,· ·· fttrawal-' look; c) further impotent allegations. What troubl~s tne is that when~ Ute st;odents discover both the inadequacies of their ·college-~ . and the power neeesS'ati' to ·cottect them, ra~u 'to'\'otgafiiit¢} analyze; · ... · .~, ···••· revise tht~ir 4iS1;loveties of injustice . l:i{ l'!l~d~quacy within . their torilll)uiiity: Union C:O'llege students are·. adequately a~med to deal with any di~crepancies defi.ciencies they uncover. The student PO!Isesses 11': the power to reform,intplernent, and · enhance whate~·er program or alteration w.ll1(l'h bears merit in . their thinking. · j 9 From the Presidenfs Desk -A local locksmith decides to open shep on State Street after a non-credit Union College course, ••Effective Operationofthe Small Business,\ convinces her that the increased visibility of tl!e location is worth the higher rent. ~A General Electric· engineer involved in a special cooperative program between GE and the College earns l3 credits towards Union's masters degree in industrial administration by taking part in GE's in-house administrative training program. Two years later, by taking special V nion College weekend classes, he gets the degree-and a promotion. -A mother ofthree completes Union's .. Women in Management\ program. She leaves the program with the skills and confidence necessary for re-entering the job tnarket. Such are a few of the ways that U.nion College, through its Office of Graduate Studies and Continuing Education, has helped to change the lives of people in the local community. Since the mid- 1940's, Union has actively sougllt to meet the needs of .. non- traditional\ students. Today, it offers almost 200 credit courses in its evening program, making available seven B.A. and B.S. degrees, 16 M.A. and M.S. degrees, and two Ph.D degrees. Over the years, the College has extended its reach beyond Schenectady by establishing branch campuses of the Institute of Administrat,ion and Management in Poughkeepsie and Pittsfield, Mass. Continuing education is becoming increasingly important not only in Union College's effort but throughout Amevican higher education. In 1970, I. 7 million adults (that is, persons beyond traditional college age) registered for college course, comprising 22 percent of total college enrollment. By 1975, the figure had risen to 3.7 million adults, ·or 34 percent of the total. By 1980, the Census Bureau predicts adults will make up as muvh as 40 percent of the total. About a thil:d of the 3000 colleges and universities in the country today offer some kind of continuing education, an increase of ten percent since 1970. The people who enroll in continuing education programs are a diverse group. At Union, many are employees at General Electric and other area firms who want to improve their administrative and technical skills. Some are seeking education as a means for making mid-life career changes. A number of those attending never began or completed college and now wish to earn undergraduate degrees. A fair proportion of these are women who are returning to school as a means of gaining entry to .the job market. Some people. of course, enroll simply for the pleasure of learning and being part of a college community. , Under the able leadership of Dean Aaron Feinsot, theOffice of Graduate Studies and Continuing Education is finding new audiences and additional ways the College can serve the community. For instance, an expanded program of non-credit courses will be offered during the spring term. They .will range from real estate investment analysis to interior design to the history of Western art. What importancd does Union's continuing education program have for undergraduates? First, by creating a wider base of support, it brings additional resources to the College, making it a more vital place to live and study. Second, some of its programs have direct usefulness for full-time undergrad11ates. For instance, 'a course in rapid reading has drawn more than 30 full-time students who wanted to upgrade their reading skills. Finally, perhaps well after joining the alumni ranks, you yourself will wish to return .to academe to further your educations. Mthough you .may be far from Union, you rnight be in the vicinity,ofa college or university which offers a quality continuing education program. At that time, the vaue of what Union is doing in its pfogram may become especially apparent.

CONCORDIENSIS, Feb. 9, 1977 Two Views on the Editor Editorial Faults To the Editors: The editorial entitled \No News?\ deserves a response. During the past few issues, Concordy has made an unfortunate play of editorial policies and humor articles that point to an attitude that is nothing short of reactiona,ry. This backwards stance is most obvious in the mer-cifully short-lived calumn called \Ask the Geek\ Matt Briefs article of \Thursday Night Dead,\ and the ••personal Shake-up\ article. The editorial replies to the protesting letters that were printed in the last couple of weeks were pretty much unrelated to the real issue at hand, which was this: How can a newspaper with attitudes like this know news when it sees it? Part of the lack of news Concordy complains about is probably the lack of things worth laughing at. Concordy's expression of humor has revealed some bigoted and sadistic tendencies on the part of the writers. The jokes in ••Ask the Geek,\ were really inexcusable. Also, in spite of promises to the contrary, sick little Gary Gilmore jokes reared their ugly heads. So did the occasional snide slur on homosexuality: I don't think the \Homo and Twatson\ line in \Dead Dies Tonight\ was consciously derogatory, but it's obvious that behind those words is a very provincial attitude. This attitude towards humor has no place in a newspaper that claims to prefer \innovative change.\ The editorial replies to the rash of responses following the \Personnel Shake-up\ article are not going to aid Concordy's desire for the \movement forward\ that last week's issue called for. The article that started the mess made irrelevant reference to Nancy Smith's physical condition, and the letters intellectually slimulatirtg . ~xperie~C(!$ . by , undermining <this organization. We have ~vgry right to receive a . , hearingj or a~ least, a response. We demand that tbe Tax C.~IJlmit~e or the Student Foru~ ~swer us with the due resped we deserve. A waiting a response, Benjamin Rubin, chairman .. pro-temp Pre Health Society faeuJ.ty hehavior c/o the Editors, An Open Letter to tbe Union- College Faculty: 1 am writing this letter to express rny disgust at the generally crass behaviour of the faculty of this college regarding the Dutch Hollow Pub. The Pub does not belong to you, nor does it exist solely to cater to the almighty \Faculty·Staff.h Right now 1 would like to apologize to those professors and administrators whose coiidttct . is at ali times courteous and friendly. But there are those; notably the professors of tW(). departments itt particular, who go out of their way, it seerns 1 . to be · <ibn()xious. If you have a class to tea.;h, eat afterwards: _do not come to the Pub ten minutes before . you ~re scheduled to appear, . . . and (leriland pref~rred service. ' $.tll.d~nts have ·classes .to attend ...... .,..,. .... ,. ()n FtidtJy and s·~ fl;tUt~(iay -~. •, ·_ l • ; . . . ' sent in were written by people who were well-justified in their annoyance. Concordy's answers to these letters were insolent, defensive, and downright snotty. Any newspaper that can't recognize in ,itself the possibility of sexist attitudes when it has been accused by so many people is not going to make • it as a bam meter for secial change. Neither is a newspaper that still thinks thumbtack-on-the-seat humor is funny. If Concordy changes these regrettable attitudes, the writers and editors might bump into some of that \missing news.\ Sincerely, Sally Eckhoff God Save the Editor l'o the Editors: For years, the riddle of the publishing houses' tenet, \No author is a hero to his editor\ evaded satisfactory solution to my mind. ''One who prepares copy for publication,\ reads part of many definitions of the word, 'Editor.' I never realized how much the word, ··prepare,\ could encompass. My Editor is a hero to his author now. An article, which I had written for an edition of Concordiensis (and submitted for publication with little time invested), was masterfully purified by an editor. The evening of the papers' publication found my yearning for the \Clydesdales' Nectar\ strong enough to warrant my venturing out to the Pub (for a change). I saw the copies of Concordiensis on the table, took one, and read (hoping to see my article in print). If I didn't recognize the title of the work, I wouldn't have known nights, when dinner is served by waiters and waitresses, wait quietly for your meal to be prepared. The service is exceptionally fast for any type of restaurant, so if you don't have the patience to wait five minutes, go to Jack-in-the- Box. And although your waiter may be the kid who never shows up for your class, on Friday and Saturday nights he is a waiter, and a good otie. Treat him with the proper courtesy and he will be sure you get served well. Leave a tip. Don't feel right tipping a student? Eat at West College. The same thing holds true at the bar. Get drunk if you wish, that's up to you. But when you pound the bar and yell, \Hey Joe! Beer Here!\ you are being neither clever nor· funny. You ate being rude. None of the bartenders are named Joe, and neither of the girls Me named Sally, Besides. the stuctents at the bar deserve better service anyway - they dQ tip. 1f something is not to your ltking, PG!itely register your coin;plaint, and if something can be done about it, it Will. But the fastest way to turn ifidividual cooks, waiters, waitresses, and bartenders into <me uncooperative unity is to sit on your throne named ·~FACULTY -ST AFFl' and demand to see the mam1ger. I tnay be failing your class, but I ain~t ;gonna kiss the bern of yqur purple tobe, Pr()f; Niuttes Withheld . ' it was mine. couldn't identify my writing, because it was lean, effective, and balanced. I don't write lean, effective, or ba:lanced anything . l rarely do anything balanced to be sure! l hope our readers appreciate the verbiage filter. I de. (I must be saved from myself). The moral of this story is not the profile of a sycophant, but, rather, the unveiling of the opportunities open for aH students to air their views, regardless of their talent with language. I have come away enthused and hopeful. (You may breathe near the same excitemeut and seize it!) Your thoughts or ideas will be crystalized and cleared. (You will see the marvelous transformation of your thoughts and ideas into effective passages), and you will be enriched with the subsequent, unavoidable learning process. Your mistakes will glare in your memory of the Ms .• but they will rapidly fade in the creation of each successive Ms. submitted, until you, the admirer of the Editor, find the same source of pride m yourself. Spring will be arriving soon and could he vastly enriched with an added personal satisfaction. Allow your editor to improve you, and communicate your thoughts to us. You may discover that, during depression tension, especially, writing may serve you through catharsis or purgation. Share your thoughts with those many others like you, learn from each other, and learn from yourself. . f( ~ God save the/.!: Editor. Sincerely, Chris Harding student opportunities To the Editors: \What troubles me is that tltis College exists for the administration, not its students.\ Immediately f()llowing thi!i popular declaration there usually are several: a) swearin.g affirmations; b) silent, C()ntemplative nods and pursed lips accompanied by a sideward, faraway look; c) f11rther impotent allegations. What troubles me is that when the students discover b()th the inadequacies of their college, and the power necessary to correct them, they fail to organize, analyze, and revise their discoveries of injustice or inadequacy within their community. Union College students are. adequately armed to deal with any discrepancies or, de fie iendes they mav uncover. · l'he student possesses tlte powe.r to reform,implernetlt, and en.hance whatever program or . alteradon which bears merit in thc;dr thinking, Each per$on. must decide the question, to· have or not to have, on ~various occasiotts, d11ring life:. Everyone is aware of tile . realtionship between . accmnplishment and its price, Certainly, the project for · Continued on Page tt · ;.:;;,:-{. --.... ... Page9 From the President's Desk -A local locksmith decides to open shop on State Street after a non-credit UnioA College course, \Effective Operation of the Small Business,\ convinces her that the increased visibility of the location is worth the higher rent. -A General Electric engineer involved in a special cooperative program between GE and the College earns 13 credits towards Union's masters degree in industrial administration by taking part in GE's in-house administrative training program. Two years later, by taking special Union CoHege weekend classes, he gets the degree-and a promotion. -A mother of three completes Union's ··women in Management\ program. She leaves the program with the skills and confidence necessary for re-entering the job market. Such are a few of the ways that Union College, through its Office of Graduate Studies and Continuing Education, has helped to change the lives of people in the local community. Since the mid- 1940's, Union has actively sought to meet the needs of \non- traditional\ students. Today, it offers almost 200 credit courses in its evening program, making available seven B.A. and B.S. degrees, 16 M.A. and M.S. degrees, and two Ph.D degrees. Over the years. the College has extended its reach beyond Schenectady by establishing branch campuses of the Institute of Administration and Management in Poughkeepsie and Pittsfield, Mas~. Continuing education is becoming increasingly important not only in Union College's effort but throughout American higher education. In 1970, 1.7 million adults (that is, persons beyond traditional college age) registered for college course, comprising 22 percent of total college enrollment. B) 1'17 5, the figure had risen to 3.7 million adults, ·or 34 percent of the total. By 19!50. the Censu~ Bureau predicts adults will make up as muvh as 40 percent of the total. About a third of the 3000 colleges and universities in the country today offer some kind of continuing education, an increase of ten percent since 1970. The people who enroll in continuing education programs are a diverse group. At Union, many are employees at General Electric and other area firms who want to improve their administrative and technical skills. Some are seeking education as a means for making mid-life career changes. A number of those attending never began or completed college and now wish to earn undergraduate degrees. A fair proportion of these are women who are returning to school as a means of gaining entry to the job market. Some people, of course, enroll simply for the pleasure of learning and being part of a college community. Under the able leadership of Dean Aaron Feinsot, the Office of Graduate Studies and Continuing Education is finding new audiences and additional ways the College can serve the community. For instance, an expanded program of non-credit courses will be offered during the spring term. They will range from real estate investment analysis to interior design to the history of Western art. What importancd does Union's continuing education program have for undergraduates? First, by creating a wider base of support, it brings additional resources to the College, making it a more vital place to live and study. Second, some of its programs have direct usefulness for full-time undergraduates. For instance, a course in rapid reading has drawn more than 30 full-time students who wanted to upgrade their reading skills. Finally, perhaps well after joining the alumni ranks, you yourself will wish to return to academe to further your educations. Although you may be far from Union, you might be in the vicinity of a college or university which offers a quality continuing education program. At that time, the vaue of what Union is doing in its program may become especially apparent. / ~ ~0 .. ' ' ' ' ..... :::::-.. ' --~' tl . ~ . ' . ,y /

Page 10 CONCORDIENS/S, Feb .. 9, 19!7 calenoar THURSDAY FEB. 10 Placement - Sign-up for l 1 .S. Army CoQ)s. of Engineers coming 2, 17 looking for C. E.'s. E. E.'s, and M.E.'s for Junior Engineering training program, I: 1.5 p.m., Placement Office. Administrative & Engineering Systems Colloquium lAM Prof. Eugene S. Schneller, Sociology Dept.. Union College will discuss \Toward A Competency Based Division of Labor in Medicine\ 4:00 p.m., Bailey Hall, Room 207. Christian Fellowship Meeting - Hroaner House, 7:30 p.m. Sociology Internship Program Meeting for all interested applicants (Soc 61). This meeting is mandatory for all applicants. All students interested should gel appltcattons by 1-eh. 7, Soc. Sci Lounge -· 8:30 p,rn. A representative from Pace University Law School will be available to meet with student:; tn Professor Board\s office (Soc. Sci Room 216) hom 1:30 to 3:30p.m. FRIDAY, Feb. II Placement Sign-up for Niagara Mohawk coming 2/17. Looking for C'.E.'s, E.E.'s, and M.E.'s, for assorted design field operations and services. 9:00a.m., Placement Office. Planning and Priorities Committee Meeting - Agenda: Discussion of issues involving institutional priortt1es and planning. All members of the Vnion community are invited. 12:15 p.m., Library, Phi Reta Kappa Room. Philosophy Dept. Seminar - Speaker: Frederick Suppe, University of Maryland; Topic: \Homosexuality and Morality.\ 3:00 p.m., Humanities, Room 213. . Placement Sign-up for Consolidated Edison coming 2/11. Looking for E. E.'s and M .E.'s for Ass't Engineering of all .areas. 3:00 p.m., Placement Office. Film Committee Presents - ••seduction or Mimi,\ Lina Wertmuller-Director of \Swept Away\ and \Seven Beauties,\ does a fine directing job on \Mimi.\ Vincent Canby called it one of the best films of 1974. A satiric, sexy, political comedy. (all times - $1.25 10:00 p.m., Soc. Sci. Room 016. The American Composer's Forum in cooperation with Union College will present five pieces by Aaron Copland. 8:00 p.m., Memorial Chapel. Tickets $4.00 to general public, $2.00 to students with I.D. cards. Call393- CALL lll-1111 DiiTDP ... !IUAYU. 101 1 DY Physics Colloguim presents \Life on Mars\'\ featuring Professor tes llull. 4:30 p.m., Bailey Hall, Root'n 207. SATURDAY, F~B. 12 Track - llnion vs. Springfield I :00 p.m., Memorial Fteldhouse. J. V. Basketball V nion vs. Siena 615 p.m .. away. Varsity Basketball - Union vs. C.W. Post, K:OO p.m, away. Ice Hockey linion vs. Plattsburgh, 7:30 p.m., away. Wrestling - Union vs. St. John Fisher, 2:00 p.m., away. Varsity Swimming - Union vs. Hamilton, 1:00 p.m., 1-ootc Memonal Pool. Women's Basketball ._ Union vs. lltica, 4:00 p.m .. heldhouse. Film Committee Presents - \Seduction of Mimi\ - 7:00, 9:00, ll:OO p.m., Soc. Sci. Room 016. SlJNOA Y, FEB. 13 Film Committee Presents \Secuction of Mimi\ 7:00, 9:00, 11:00 p.m., Sm: Sci, Room 016 Film - \Diary of a Mad Housewife\ starring Carrie Snodgrass and Richard Bcnjamtn al thcSchachlhnc Arts Cenler - Russell Sage College, 7:30 p.m., Adnnssion 50¢. Catholic Mass - lollowed by a social, 7:30 p.m .. Strauss Lounge. MONDAY, FEB. 14 Intellectual Cabaret presents - Professors Bruce Reynolds, Don Thurston, Susan Blader along with student John Rivkin di~cuss: \Is China A Stalinist S.~ate\ -· 8:30 p.m., Strauss Lounge, Free Wine, Cheese, aeer, and Peanuts. Dt. David Peak of the Physics Dept. will discuss the \Theory of Castastrophes .. - Bailey Hall ~ Room 207, 4:30 p.m. TUESDAY, FEB. IS Ice Hockey Union vs. Elmira, 7:00 p.m., Away. Speaker's Forum presents Actor \Leonard Nimoy\ of the T.V_ series \Star Trek\ at 8:30 p.m.; Memorial Chapel. Film Committee presents - \Psycho\ Alfred Hitchcock's classic shocker starring Tony Perkms as the \psycho.\ See Hitchcock in his finest form, 7:00, 9:00, i 1:00 p.m., Soc. Sci. Room 016. Women's lee Hockey - Union vs. RPI ~ Achilles Rink ~ 4:30 P-m. Game Night - at the Cabaret ~ 9:00-1:00 a.m. WEDNESDAY, FEB. 16 J. V. Basketball ....,. Union vs. Albany, Pharmacy, 7:30 p.m., Away.' Women's Basketball - Union vs. Siena, 5:45 p.m., Fieldhouse. TherE! will be a panel discussion of careers related to psychology with a clinical psychologist, rehabilitation counselor, a counselor in private practice, and a social worker Strauss Lounge, 4:00 p.m. For The First Tim,e On Campus Bock Beer ON TAP St.50 Pitchers 20¢ Draft (10 oz.) Thurs., Feb lOth 7pm-Ciosing AT THE SKELLAR Commentary: by PROF, J. UNDERWOOD Political Science Department In his recent address to the Board of Trustees. \Th~; State of Union College: the J~romisc and the Paradox,\ President Bonner has sought to begin a discussion concerning the future direction of the College. I applaud hts imtiative. What follows here .is an attempt lo· clarify some of the quest ions at issue in the interest of a more productive debate. My own estimate is that there is widespread approval of many ·of the President's goals as well as certain elements of. hts strategy lor strengthentng Union and mcreastng its chances for survival as a ·qualtty institution. l-or example, his success at the development task and his strengthening of ties wtth Union University arc almost universally applauded. A \sense of movement\ can he overrated, but in my judgment Union College needed one when I om Hanner arrived here. It .ts to hts credit that he has helped lultill that need. It is also to his credit ·that he thinks in broad, strategic terms. Thus I welcome his havmg offered a model for Union's luture development I he model of \a compre- hensive college in a university setting\ is in tnany respects an appealing one. My own reser- vations relate not so much to the broad outlines of the model but to the elements which it may imply. If the model means that U man has the unusual attribute of offering strong programs in engineering and · the natural sciences within the context of the conventional liberal arts college, then the model seems to me to have much to commend it. (Unlike engineering, the natti.ral sciences are traditionally part of the liberal arts curriculum, but they occupy a more prominent position at Union because of historical reasons as well as the presence of an engineering program and a strong pre-professional program, namely, pre-med.) If the model means .that Union should seek to take advantage of this diversity by building \curricular bridges\ b e t we e n t h e v a r i o u s components of the College, then I approve. (Such \bridges\ might be incor- porated into general education requirements.) If the model means that the College has a responsibility to take care to preserve the balance among its components. that seems reasonable. (Perhaps some investment in the arts is then a wise course.) If the model means that Union College has the advantage of being part of a larger university, then who can object. (And I would encourage further attempts to strengthen productive ties with other components of the university.) If the model means that Union College has traditionally offered graduate programs and courses which have bridged the gap between the ivory tower and the \real world,\ and thus served the community, that seems both accurate and laudable. My own view is that the important issue to be debated is exactly what the President's model implies beyond the components I cite a:bove. It is by no means eviden.t to me that the model dictate's anything more. And it seems to me that our important task in whatever discussion takes place is to make sure that we do not \smuggle in\ any Bonner's Paradox number ol programs or tnittattve~ simply because we decide that the.essentiaf model is an attractive one. As President Bonner notes, .. Not everyone at the College wrll accept thts comprehensive college model cwn when understood.\ Uavtng c~1me to know htm through my service on the President-ial Advisory Board I am q uttc confident that I om Bonner does not hold that those who might choose to crittcttc his model are dcltcient either an understanding or in concern for the College's well-being. It is very clear to me that any debate on the new model and its components must proceed on the assumption that the College community might very well judge the model.or any of its components to be deficient on the merits. In proceeding toward a debate on a model for the College's future, I would offer the following observations: I )Realizing that outsiders, presidents and insiders arc bound to have different perspectives, I would urge that all. be treated with respect. It is true that \insiders students as well a~ faculty and administrators can be \near- sighted.\ It is true that faculty sometimes resist proposals for change because of the natural conservatism exhibited by any profes.sion as well as considerations of personal convenience which affect everyone to one degree or another. But if the res111t of these phenomena IS that faculty perspectives are distorted, it must also be admitted that other of the College's \constituencies\ tnay suffer from bias.ed perspectives. Students are here for only rour years, and that fact may sometimes cause them to take a short,-run view of things. Local alumni, as well as members of the larger community, may be carried a way by enthusiasm spawned by athletic success and .identifi- cation with a \winner.\ Administrators may be influenced by the desire to \leave tbe.ir marks\ and to prepare for future career advancement. As should be obvious then, we all see through a somewhat distorted lens. And more to the point of the \paradox\ President Bonner cites in his address, there is no guarantee that the outsiders' view of Union College's situation will ·be any more accurate, distortion-free, than the view of insiders. 2) I would urge that participants in the debate accept the idea that one cannot always \have his cake and eat it too.'' For example, depending on how one defines \success at athletics,\ such success may in fact have the potential to harm the College's reputation. To ignore this possibility on the grounds that one should have a positive attitude would be unwise. Furthermore, it would detract from the necessary task of figuring out exactly how potential conflicts between athletic success and academic integrity and·.reputation can be avoided. Certainly; such conflicts are not inevitable, but under certain conditions they will surely arise. (It is clear to many that such conflicts have arisen in connection with Union's hockey program.) 3) I would urge that the key criteria for evaluating any proposed changes in the College's goals and programs be those ol academic quality and reputataon. It is quate. clear- to me that some of the President's recent initiatives do ·satisfy these c~iteria. The joint program with Albany Medical CoHege is an exceUen,t example But that does not mean that all ,his initiatives. do. or will, satisfy the criteria. I see the faculty as havinga special Fesponsibihty for and competence an acting as guardians ol the academic integrity of the institution. This is not to say that other components of the College community may not seek !o advance the same cause. l.t is merely to recognize that institu~ional roles, profes- sional biases and personal commitments best equip the faculty to play this role. Even if one accepts !~resident Bon11er's descriptio!1. of us as a comprehensive college in a university setting. it should be clear that the core of our strength is the academic quality and reputation of l'hl\' under.graduate enterprise. We must be careful not to damage that cote. I have respect-for our graduate programs and adult education programs. l do not seek to denigrate them. But I would· argue that their survival depends on the maintenance of the traditional high quality and reputation of the core undergraduate enter- • prise. 4) President Bonner's sentiment that we should aim for more than just survival seems to me to be one we can all accept. And presumably he offers his new model and. his other initiatives as means of achieving survival u well as some extra dimension.. But what is not yet entirely clear is exactly what President Bonner seeks in addition to survival. Is his new model the end to be achieved or is it merely part of the survival strategy? Or, to use his words, is the end to make Union \the tnost exciting and attractive small .college in the nation?.. One must ask: exciting to whom, attractive to whom? Being perceived as exciting and attractive by leaders in higher education, by faculty in quality institutions, by guidance counselors in the best high schools, and. by the best high school students is highly desirable in my view. Being exciting ~nd attractive to Sports Illustrated is a very different thing. I acknowledge that the president of any college may be best equipped to assess the dangers to that college~s survival. Thus it is proper that President Bonner alert us to the ••market problems\ that all colleges face. We undoubtedly need to be reminded. At the same time, the College must resist any temptation to fd!Low the market wherever· it· leads. we should take tlur_, warket into account;.\V~ .snauld adjust to ·the titne_s; we. S'Mu\4 ,pe~bold when tile _occasid~.A~~~~s, but we must be careful th{\,1: a survival strategy does not t~ad us. t() . e;X~?ang~ 5Wfl'Status ~s a very gt,>od small <;ollege ;for status as> ··~: -~medio'¢re something-.or-other. For I''am convinced that in tbe long•flin th'e best :gpara,ntee l9r surv$.val is a continued commitmen~; to academic e xce lien~ e. Therefore, it concerns me f~at the President's address may~ be burdened by its own para3bx. Is it possible that the stratl::8Y he advocates as a means to more than mere sur:viva'l may in fact turn out to lead · to exactly what it seeks to avoid'!

Page 10 CONCORDJENSIS, Feb. 9, 1977 calenoar THURSDAY FEB. 10 Placement - S1gn-up lor LT.S. Army Corps. of Engineers coming 2, 17. Looking for C.E.'s, E.E.'~. and M.E.'s for J1:1nior Engineenng traming program, 1:15 p.m .. Placement Office. Administrative & Engineering Systems Colloquium lAM - Prof. Eugene S. Schneller, Sociology Dept., UnioA CoHege will dtscuss \I oward A Competency Based Dtviston of Labor m Med1cine\ 4:00 p.m., Batley Hall, Room 207. Christian Fellowsllip Meeting Broaner House, 7:30 p.m. Sociology Internship Program Meeting lor all interested applicants (Soc. 61 ). Ihis meeting IS mandatory for all applicants. All students interested should get applicatiOns by Fch. 7, Soc. Set Lounge X:30 p.m. A repre!>ientative from Pace University Law School will he available to meet with studcnb 10 Profc~sor Hoard\ ollice (Soc. Set Room 216) from 1:30 to JJU p.m. FRIDAY, Feb. II .Placement Sign-up lor Naagara Mohawk wming 2 17. Looking for C.E.'s, f..E's, and M. E.'s: for assorted design field operattons and services. 9:00a.m., Placement Office. Planning and Priorities C';lmmittee Meeting - Agenda: ~1sc_uss1?n of issues involving mst1tutwnal priorities and planning. All members of the Union community are invited. 12:15 p.m., Library, Phi Beta Kappa Room. Philosophy Dept. Seminar - Sp~aker: Frederick Suppe, Umversity of Maryland; Topic: \Homosexuality and Morality.\ 3:00 p.m., Humanities, Room 213. Placement Sign-up for Consolidated Edison coming 2/ 17. Looking for E. E.'s and M.E.'s for Ass't Engineering of all areas. 3:00 p.m., Placement Office. Film Committee Presents - \Seduction of Mimi,\ Lina Wertmuller-Director of \Swept Away\ and \Seven Beauties\ does a fine directing job ~n \Mimi.\ Vincent Canby called it one of the best films of 1974. A satiric, sexy, political comedy. (all t1mes - $1.25 10:00 p.m., Soc. Sci. Room 016. The American Composer's Forum in cooperation with Union College will present five pieces by Aaron Copland. &:00 p.m., Memorial Chapel. Tickets $4.00 to general public, $2.00 to students with I.D. cards. Call 393- CALL 111-IIU D.R STOP ll Ill lAY IT. ICH'DY Physics Colloguim presents \Ltle on Mars\!\ leatunng Professor Les Hull. 4:30 p.m., Ba1ley Hal'!, Room 207. SATt:RDA Y, FEB. 12 Track - Union vs. Springfield I :00 p.m., Memonal Fieldhouse. J.V. Basketball Union vs. Siena ~ 6:15 p.m., away. Varsity Basketball - Union vs. CW. Post, X:OO p.m., away. Ice Hockey llnion vs. Plattsburgh, 7:30 p.m., away. Wrestling - Union vs. St. John Fisher, 2:00 p.m., away. Varsity Swimming- Union vs. Hamilton, I :00 p.m.. Foote Memorial Pool. Women's Basketball - Union vs. Utica, 4:00 p.m., heldhouse. Film Committee Presents - \Seduction of Mimi\ - 7:00, 9:00, II :00 p.m., Sue. Sci. Room 016. SliNDA \'', FEB. 13 Film Committee Presents \Secuction of Mimi\ 7:00. 4:00, I I :00 p.m .. Soc Sci. I{ oom 016 Film - \Diary of a Mad Housewife\ starring Carrie Snodgrass and Richard BenJamin at theSchachthne Art~ Cent~:r Ru~sell Sage College, 7:30 p.m., Adm1sswn 50ct. Catholic Mass followed by a socml, 7:30p.m .. Strauss Lounge. MONDAY, FEB. 14 Intellectual Cabaret presents - ~rofessors Bruce Reynolds, Don l hurston, Susan Blader along With student John Rivkin discuss· \Is China A Stalinist S.'at~\ -~ 8:30 p.m., Strauss Lounge, Free Wine, Cheese, Beer, and Peanuts. Dr. David Peak of the Physics Dept. will discuss the \Theory of Castastrophes\ - Bailey Hall - Room 207, 4:30 p.m. TUESDAY, FEB. 15 Ice Hockey Union vs. Elmira, 7:00 p.m., Away. Speaker's Forum presents Actor \Leonard Nimoy\ of the T.V_ series \Star Trek\ at 8:30 p.m., Memorial Chapel. Film Committee presents - \Psycho\ ~ Alfred Hitchcock's classic shocker starring T any Perkins as the \psycho.\ See Hitchcock in his finest form, 7:00, 9:00, 11:00 p.m .. Soc. Sci. Room 016. Women's Ice Hockey - Union vs. RPI Achilles Rink 4:30 p.m. Game Night - at the Cabaret ·- 9:00-1:00 a.m. WEDNESDAY, FEB. 16 J.V. Basketball - Union vs. Albany Pharmacy, 7:30 p.m., Away. Women's Basketball - Union vs. Siena, 5:45 p.m., Fieldhouse. There will be a panel discussion o~ careers related to psychology wtth a clinical psychologist, rehabilitation counselor, a counselor in private practice, and a social worker Strauss Lounge, 4:00 p.m. For lh e First Time 0 n Campus Bock Beer ON TAP $1.50 Pitchers 20¢ Draft c•o oz.> Thurs., Feb lOth 7pm-Ciosing AT THE SKELLAR Commentary: by PROF. J. UNOERWOOU Political Science Department In h1s n:cent addre>~ to the Board ot I rHstees, ••f he Sta tc ol Unum College: the Promtse and the Pafadox.\ President Bonner has sought to begm a diSCUSSIOn CUI1Cermng the future directiOn of the College. I applaud his inlttative. What follows here 1s an attempt to clarify some of the 4 uest1on~ at issue in the 111terest of a more productive debate. My own estimate is that there ts widespread approval of many of the Prestdent's goals as well as certain elemetHs of hts strategy tor strengthemng Unwn and mcreasmg 1ts chances lor survtval as a 4uallty institUtion. l-or example, hts success at the development tal>k and his strengthenmg ot ties wnh Un10n Uni-..ers1ty are almost umversally applauded. A \sense ol mtnement'\ can be overrated. but m my Judgmtnt lln10n College needed nne when I om Honn~:r arr1vt.:d here. It 1s to h1s cn:d1t that he ha~ helped lulltll thlat need. It ~~ also to h1s credit that he thmks m hroad, strategic term~. I hus I welcome his havmg offered a model lor Unum's future development. I he model of \a compre- hensive college m a university settmg\ 1s in many respects an appealing one. My own reser- vations relate not so much to the broad outlines of the model but to the elements which it may imply. If the model means that Union has the unusual attribute of offering strong programs in engineering and the natural sciences within the context of the conventional liberal arts college, then the model seems to me to have much to commend it. (Unlike engineering, the natural sciences are traditionally part of the liberal arts curriculum but they occupy a mor; prominent position at Union because of historical reasons as well as the presence of an engineering program and a strong pre-professional program, namely, pre-med.) If the model means -that Union should seek to take advantage of this diversity by bulldmg \curricular bridges\ between the various components of the College, then I approve. (Such \bridges\ might be incor- porated into general education rt!quirements.) If the model means that the College has a responsibility to take care to preserve the balance among its components, that seems reasonable. (Perhaps some investment in the arts is then a wise course.) If the model means that Union College has the advantage of being part of a larger university, then who can object. (And I would encourage further attempts to strengthen productive ties with other components of the university.) If the model means that Union College has traditionally offered graduate programs and courses which have bridged the gap between the ivory tower and the \real world,\ and thus served the community, that seems both accurate and laudable. My own view is that the important issue to be debated is exactly what the President's model implies beyond the components I cite above. It is by no means evident to me that the model dictates anything more. And it seems to me that our important task in whatever discussion takes place is to make sure that we do not \smuggle in\ any Bonner's Paradox number ot programs or tntllatl\e~ ~1mply because we dcc1dc that the es~enttal model ts an attractive one. As President Bonner notes. \Not everyone at the College Will accept this comprehensive college modd eve11 when under~tood.\ Ha\mg come to know him through my service on the Presidential Advisory Board I am LJUite confident that I om Bonner does not hold that those who migiH choose to crittcite his model are delictelilt either m understanding or in concern lor the CoHege's well-being. It ts very clear to me that any debate on the new model and its components must proceed on the assumption that the College community might very well JUdge the model or any of tis components to be deficient on the merits. In proceeding toward a debate on a model for the College's future. I would offer the follow1ng observations: I) Realizing that outsiders, presidents and insiders are bound to have different perspectives. I would urge that all be treated with respect. It is true that \insiders students as well as faculty and administrators can be \near- sighte~.\ It is true that faculty sometimes res1st proposals for change because of the natural conservatism exhibited by any profession as well as considerations of personal convenience which affect everyone to one degree or another. But if the result of these phenomena is that faculty perspectives are distorted, it must also be admitted that other of the College's \constituencies\ may suffer from biased perspectives. Students are here for only four ~ears, and that fact may sometimes cause them to take a short-run view of things. Local alumni, as well as member~ of the larger commumty, may be carried away by enthusiasm spawned by athletic success and identifi- cation with a ''winner.\ ~dministrators may be mfluenced by the desire to \leave their marks\ and to prepare for future career advancement. As should be obvious then, we all see through a somewhat distorted lens. And more to the point of the \paradox\ President Bonner cites in his address there is no guarantee that th~ outsiders' view of Union College's situation will be any more accurate, distortion-free than the view of insiders. ' 2) I would urge that participants in the debate accept the idea that one cannot ~!ways \have his cake and eat It to?.\ For example, dependmg on how one defines \success at athletics,\ such success may in fact have the potenti~l to harm the College's reputatiOn. To ignore this possibility on the grounds that on7 should have a positive attitude would be unwise. Furthermore, it would detract from the necessary task of figuring out exactly how potential conflicts between athletic success and academic integrity and reputation can be avoi?ed. Certainly, such confl1cts are not inevitable, but u~der certain. conditions they will surely anse. (It is clear to many that such conflicts have arisen in connection with Union's hockey program.) _3) I_ would urge that the key cntena for evaluating any proposed changes in the College's goals and programs be those ol academic qHality and rept!ltation. It is qwte clear to me that some of the Pres1clent's recent initiatives do satisfy these criteria. The joint program with Albany Medical College IS an excellent example. But that does not !Tiean that all his initiatives do or wtll, satisfy the criteria. ' I see the faculty as having a special responsibility for and competence m acting as guardians ol the academic integrity of the institution. I his is not to say that other components of the College community may not seek to advance the same cause. It is merely to recogn.ize that institutional roles, profes- sional biases and personal commitments best equip the faculty to play this role. Even if one accepts President Bonner's description of us as a comprehensive college m a university setting. tt should be clear that the core ol our strength is the acaderruc qualtty and reputation of the undergraduate enterprise. We must be careful not to damage that core. I have respect for our grad ua·te programs and adult education programs. I do not seek to denigrate them. But I would argue that their survival depends on the maintenance of the traditional high quality and reputation ol the core undergraduate enter- prise. 4) President Bonner's sentiment that we should aim for more than just survival seems to me to be one we can all accept. And presumably he offers his new model and his other initiatives as means of achieving survival as well as some extra dimension. But what is not yet entirely clear is exactly what President Bonner seeks in addition to survival. Is his new model the end to be achieved or is it merely part of the survival strategy? Or, to use his words, is the end to make Union \the most exciting and attractive small college in the nation?\ One must ask: exciting to whom, attractive to whom? Being perceived as exciting and attractive by leaders in higher education, by faculty in quality institutions, by guidance counselors in the best high schools, and by the best high school students is hi~hly desirable in my view. Bemg exciting and attractive t~ Sports Illustrated is a very dtfferent thing. I acknowledge that the president of any college may be best equipped to assess the dan~ers to that college's survtval. Thus it is proper that President Bonner alert us to the \market problems\ that all colleges face. We undoubtedly need to be reminded. At the sa~e time, the College must resast any temptation to follow the market wherever it leads. We should take the market into account, we should adjust to the times, we should be bold when the occasion demands, but we must be careful that a survival strategy does not lead us to exchange our•status as a very good smafl college for status 3;s a mediocre something-or-other. For I am convinced that in the long-run the best guarantee for survival is a continued commitment to academic excellence. Therefore, it concerns me that the President's address may be burdened by its own paradox. Is it possible that the strategy he advocates as a means to more than mere survival may in fact turn out to lead to exactly what it seeks to avoid'! alSo! \(ii e. -~he . ·in_ay ftns1 lead that avoi p, stu• :.grie• pro stat part l¢:ti1 nece QhaJ p:ur~ rewJ . Si s'el1 . rtm -~y ... ·:Su~J ., ., for ·and mte1 · .nietl witfl :att ~.A •.. tbi$, 'ditch 'f6r~ .• e:ffet ··Jtn ~ltaJ -devt w-o;:n ®n'l :,.~~~ . &Qcy 'IU~ >iOI:'Jtl ,,,~;q~ , :'.A ,, Pl(l~ . th~ .mos nun , sH~ ht4i '.MfF ~111 ,A , ,Y9U -brig d\nd- into .·. _lttli . .. L ruur: ei~~ s~el dista

THIS WEEK! Ruth Rappapor.t, J.C. . Belleman, Tommy Parker, Laura Bronstein and Ted Moffly TRADITIONAL IRISH AND AMERICAN MUSIC 2nd act will be announced Game Ni1ht Every Tuesday at 9:00 P.M. games, or cr~te ~ven · mnre,. Motiv4ti~n is ft<\t permitted. to enter into tHe- . . othenl sueh. ft$ several practi~tl· picture .. • ~tablfl~pin- ,.~And -~-thir.t -tr~y · t:,;studi~\a· ;, .. :lJuio-n .Place> oCOO'ts wttflfi\·\'• ,.,, .. , .. ,~p.ilp.tqgr,a,pll!r. .. \b•b~· ,~d. weit,<L.-- .~Satunla.y:r.n~t,falts. ·upon •trte ..• ,. fil<U;l~\k.JIU.iiagtoll.., ate. alL. . ·tlampm. ,::r.be. -dim:sed\.students. '\'\'\''';I~}\Jr.l£:f''iH{J'\N$~~~-l!k\ 1 ~;~§~··: · · .. ·tftc·••·• •. ,g•u{fe.r:::J:U!HlUQS.t ,;9ttet.Jris r»gtttK?'• . are . · · because ~he realiu.,tion • ·. • .: __ . ?& .... Qll;\~~. . h9 .)~~- . SP.AiJay. b¢t.t.~ .~Qtrwn as work .. . .. · .. ·.· .... · .· . ·.· .... , ·.· .· . . . tJ.nimt)l!~~k . . 'day, is ju~t arwnd the corner •... . . \ , A;i.£¥ ...... affairs. ... .than . . d. \ . step . in the .. Th.e expectation for Saturday · dtJt\NJ;~4J\;. \' •.... !~ ..... 1.915.. . it .· ... 1!-11 ~ ~rstan<lJll8: _pf thi.!l . ~o'-p pjght is so tremcmdo\IS. Jt must !lt.U;<l\LJ... int~rvicW«< both of the opera, is to observe the Union be worthwhile. The last release ··· ·· · · · ·r~~_,~yor, lt has student, who is afflicted with before the week begins, must . . a.: . n Jl>$~and ();(I many the chronic disease. often rome. ln desperation, the :is~1i<e1r tha~ · tb Union acq.uir~~ on. campus. called community heads for the Pub, ttg~;~~·-··)·:1;:''~;e:ooamufiitlfi''~'hutlld:-k·be· vitally ·· ,lJ:!'UOOttl1!<. Th.m. so.tttet:ime&···' -the\· Sk-ellar, . in\ Algur Liquor Center Liquors - Wines - Cordials 751Y, EASTERN AVE. CORNER JACKSON LOWEST PRICES ALLOWED IN N.Y. S1.t\ T,t. COME., lU~OWSff E.N;Jl)Y FOX HOUSE TALK LINE We are not just a crisis line. If you are, down, upset or lonely... or if you just feel like talking to someone who'll listen and care, CALL .· so· 67 US AT{37_0)- · . Lines are open 7 days a a week, hours 11 pm to 3 am all calls are STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL we have an EXTENSIVE REFERRAL SERVICE

' · 'for awhile·: .. ~ ~it~~v >~ti·,::~;'~tepar~';'l\'fe\f\ ' lh~': \' . ·. ..:tilt next . w~ l remain . ·. ~nt~tasia$t.~ :l'6$~1tv nf ille your bumble servant, · sprtitg, i~OR~SIQflT~. That William Randoiph Jellybean concept ·. Wputd have saved : iS ~:~~r about, . . . \til eaia,e&tly believe ·lll life, and ·the (;ollege . CM.i.cmunity,. it in.ay ·be wfortunate for those who a~if:o.rced to grovel E ... ,ct!J!I·q.~ ~r. tbe yok~ ,gf ,tb.e ruling ;tna;W.ri.ity · ·or.;c,miri~rlty, · What .. . . er a,ggiravate:s the · · f:tnstrati-on. · · (of small band ~dershipJ is the blatant fact, · that isi its suffering is avoidable, With victories! Perhaps a vehicle for student exportssions of .• grievances, ideas suggestions, propo.sa.is, individual statements concerning a particular request for some aoovity. or witatever may be necessary to organize, and Qb.annel energies, for the · purpose of creating a mo:re rewarding life ·for an of us. : ·Since ··waves · o.f brilliance ·. seldtnn: i · the · prevention . · 'fflaY aJs~;f :be·'·. necessary to ·· .:support :tl).¢ _first ~premise with · · · . ' ~t(l;JiaB· ctitiifii~t~~k -ft~rmea ·.· ·fbt_ the .p\ti.P*SC' ()f'evalttating, and.· oompitltig ·the st:uttent . ~terest;. . arur . proposing '• . a .method ·of iirt'fectively dealing with sl#)h iss/U:¢$, lhat aff-ect us •at:t· , · ··An· opp~tmity, sueb as .. tid~, shoUld· b¢. exactly what • -~~ch capable student. searches . ·for. An opportunity to be ·· effeetiv.~ · in the realization. of · · . l{n lmi)<Jrtant gOO!. This h1 · ~itany: ··. imt!Ortartt to .· <>Ur . dcveiopmeilf ·as men. ·~utd . w~en, and. as members of a • :.~mmunit:y, (tlle dnmina.nt :,,I.Wde : t(Jife- in. ooruemporary · ~QcjetyJ,'iTh~st:hd~:nts~ activity ' a~W, · · . interests; if properly ,~urg:tnized. .. and .· deplcyed, ,, i\.\''Q~14 .repay, . itself tenfold; . :·.Already~ there ate capable · . , · <O.cc.upy,ing · St:tl®n;t , . . . · · · · . ·;P!Q$ititfns, and, . ritt:I$-t important, there be you, ·the: .student~ QCcupying the . :most powerful position of aU, nmnbers .. Use this pejorative ,_sJ bt;,. against your •• , lmnvlte.U>a.nt:v, · against its .. Mrpetuators: apa,tby., cynicism, -~Usbit. .. . . ,As a (!Ot'nautnity of students, • > Y9U are .e~tl¢ptely capable,. · bfigbt, int-elligent,. resourceful, • ; , ~~d . ef&c.tive '(when formed · if1~t.o ~he ~rQbbing heartbeat of ·· j'etivities ·tw.aro· su<lcess.) · .Lately. ther-e. have been numerous complaints or woes ci~«< agairtst the depressing seclusion. . and students• distant:es, during winter term. ··\~~'11¥: E~petors·'t~;J)~ King~. lla<i, . th~Y: · ·. ju-d·g'¢d the ranutlcatloos ~f .Jbeir a(;tions o-r NON ... ACTrON, while they still bwathed llfli!. · F:ell{)WS and students, raise your College up to your expee.tatio:ns,; · . · · Sincerely, Christopher Madden Harding '78 tales of unlou life To the Editors: Said hello to my dinner yesterday in West Cafeteria and it answered back. West .College, the kingdom of Long Islanders (lawn guylanderz), where people live in glass doubles and t.hrow stoned. So much for cliches. It's snowing. slushing, b!Q~ng out today. Winter has a strange way of making one's marks lnok . goo-d in <;otUparis()n.. . yet · the min4 suffers... Hangout at the . library f . good action at . tbe .. rn~.zaan:ineo . -l4Y.el, ;wodd~s large-st · e.qUection Q{ unread books. · It's. Monday.. Intellectual Cabaret discusse$ theJlQt topic ~- \Claustro!)hobia at Uni(m: . The PerilS of a. Small Schoo-l't' I'm teo busy dodging assignments tG go ... Maybe ru gp · Thursday ... Thought: Did yot;t ever-look at Sotne Qf the journalistic Wt:f.nders t<~ be fQ;Und a~ the library's newspaper muks? Try \'The Amsterdatn: Everting R(lt)()rder\' ·on for .siz•. Front · page ph.ot<Q: Man feeding his, dog a .banana~ · Wednesday. · ~·cnneordy c~>mes out like .a rash. Hockey players get their defenses up. Peeple look fur their names in the pe:rsqnals, .Life is cairn ex-cept for triYia .. tlte Bonzo ·.Remedial · B1epha'Q:t . Club knows that Ernest 'Borgnine had his tooth impounded for sleeping with a parking meter. For a keg of beer, some people would do anything--even avoid work! . Cynicism, baUelujah*Hail to the Griefl. Looking for a social life?*try not looking. lt's less disappointment with the same results. We'~ all freaks of inte.Uigence· Yeah! Let us go to the Carnival an·d watch our heroes imbibe witl:t speed and puU ropes, play with snow while we fancy our own classiness. Enough for now~I have dug my hole of stupid views-let me lie there THIS WEEKI Ruth Rappaport, J .C. Belleman, Tommy Parker, Laura Bronstein and Ted Moffly TRADITIONAL IRISH AND AMERICAN MUSIC 2nd act will be announced Game Night Every Tuesday at 9:00 P.M. . COUIIUUIIity . response To The Editors: As one who has been in night schools in both SCCC and Union, l read \From the President's Desk (Feb. 2; p. 7)\ with much concern. Today, the Gazette in page 26 had an editorial entitled, .. Town and Gown Relationships.\ They really told a story. While I was at SCCC the Van Curler, their newspaper, was much more corH~erned about city affairs than Coneordy. ln t 975, it interviewed both of the candidates for mayor. It has ?-lways taken a stan<l on many tssues that the Union community should be vitally interested in. Why do some complain around that time of commencement that they're leaving .an ivory tower'? The students on this campus, no matter where they're Jrom~, &b..)tdd try to be i'nvolvo-ed with the community. The students should try to understand more about this eity. Even if l plan to move back to New Jersey in 1978, thafs no reason fnr me to be naive or apathetic. Dr. Sonner summed it up niclely wuen he said, .. Unio.n is more than just a college in the city. Union is a college of the city.\ This should be emphasized especially in special events on campus as well as athletics. Sincerely, George .R. Rosner college soap opera To ,fhe Editors: \rm so- bored. The~'s never anything to do around here. I have so tnueh work to do· I . . mlght as well do it, because there is nothing else going on r· Complaining is the name of the game, performed daily on the Union Place series. Union Plaee is a daily s.eries which, in winter. is shown more than usual. This series was produ.£ed, directed, and performed by the Union · College Campus. In other w?'rds, all the credits are 5()lely gtven to the ct:dlege community. What a talented bunch of people! No wonder why Union pas such a good reputation for creativity. To clari.fy the soap opera, Algur liquor Center Liquors - Wines - Cordials 751 Y2 EASTERN AVE. CORNER JACKSON LOWEST PRICES ALLOWED IN N.Y. SlAT!: COME.,. B~OW5ff E.NJU'f Union Place, We sboull tlrst look at the settin~. 'Located in the heart of Schenectady, dose to Albany, the country and several mountain areas, Union Place is set up to pro-mote a · prison environment, alias small campus setting. Such sport facilities as the pool, two indoor tracks, a rink, quite a few basketball courts, and indoor tennis courts, an'() others such as several practice rooms, ping pong tables, pin ball machines, art studios, a photography lab, and weird rooms called lounges, are all several alternatives to boredom which are always hidden or made to look worthless on Union Place. A second step in the understanding of this soap opera, is to observe the Union student, who is afflicted with the chronic disease, often acquired on campus, called Unionitis. This disease is very infectious and sometimes fatal. When the disease has reached its peak, the student begins to send away for the papers. One carefully selects the papers and fills them out with the last ounce of energy. The student is then notified of transfer, but with no avail, because tile disease, as many do not believe, is carried from Union Place to Colgate Place or Brown Place or any of tile other forettH)St institutions. Many doctors on campus have been researching the causes and most important of aU, forming committees and subcommittees to find rome cure for the . disease. Bu.t, success is not in the air. To '»tnplete the picture of Unio-n Place. we now observe the intera-ction between the diseased stud~nt and tlle \stale\ environment, lt~s Thursday night and cries resound from the West t() tile North to the South and even l!Ome foxes join in the cry for lack of excitement. The gardens lie quiet. suppr~ by the snow, the Nott pr()vides an eerie shadow over libxary field, and only faint noises can be detected on the Mezzanine floor ofthe library. Besides the Cabaret. which many a time is in need qf performers and wqrkers, the once famed Rath· skellar, which is in need of company. the Pub, the once upon a spring social gathering spot, agent double one six, yielding secret ftlms. an.(!. occasional concerts, the cries do not let up. It's Friday night and the cries become more intense. Besides all the Thursday night activities, several new alternatives are FOX HOUSE added . to t~ list~ but €J~ 4itgain to no avail. ln a way, the occupants of Union Place seem to enjoy their game of complaining and deny all the other games offered. The rules are set. The other game~ are declared unsatisfactory, but nothing is done to rectify the other games or create even more. Motivation is not permitted to enter into the picture. And the third tragedy of Union Place occurs when Saturday night falls upon the campus. The diseased students suffer the most on this night, because the realization that Sunday, better known as work ·day, is just around the comer . The expectation for Saturday night is so tremendous. It must be worthwhile. The last release before the week begim, must come. In desperation, the community heads for the Pub, sometimes the Skellar, in hopes for a g<XKI time, but as in aU soap operas, the ending is sad. The drudgery qf routine wins over and emergency supplies of alcohol are caUed in to soothe the pain of defeat. But the inevitable occurs; Sunday becomes reality. One may now begin to grasp the plot of Union Place. There are a.o many things for free. right at the tingertips of the community. But, as in many melodramatic stories. the solutions seem apparent. but . unreachable. Is it the writers of this destined script who prefer this unfavorable outcome? :It is hard to tell when the performers continually blame · other segments of the community. Why can't Unio-n Place be removed from the screen and the Saga of Union College be recited? Sincerely. Janie Schuster enjoying italy To the Editors: Tonight. the ~union for the fall group in Italy met with Professor Freund over wine and cheese in the Old Chapel to see slides that made Italy a reality again. This just served to reinforce the feeling that it was Professor Freund's undying enthusiasm which made. Italy as amazing an. experitnce as it was. Hans always had something cooking. Week in and week out, Professor Freund bad us visit_ing museums, monuments, or just out on a picnic into the italian countryside: TALK LINE We are not just a crisis line. If you are down, upset or lonely... or if you just feel like talking to someone who'll listen and care, CALL 60 6 US AT (370)- 7 Lines are open 7 days a a week, hours 11 pm to 3 am all calls are STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL we have an EXTENSIVE REFERRAL SERVICE

Paf(e 12 CONCORDJENSIS. Feb. 9, 1977 classifieos Clusifieds part I 7•8-11 p Apartments: Lookinl for an APARTMENT and APARTMENT MATES (female) for the spring term through the summer. Anyone who knows of a vacant apartment or is loaking for an apartment mate... ,please, contact LOUISA in 214 West. 346-9369. Apartment - looking for an apartment close to campus for the spring term. Preferably with existing occupants who are looking for one more. Contact Michelle 37()..6417. FOR SALE: Garrard 408, Shure Magnetic cartridge $40, make offer Box 1893. . l plirs women's figUJ'e skates, both size 6, good to excellent condition. About $6 each pair. Call Amy at 370-6573. BULLETIN: LOST - A pair of black leather ski 1loves, orand name \Zero Minus 20,\ with green wool inner gloves. A reward is offered. Please call Rich 393-9535. SENIORS: Place your orders now for araduation IIIII!OUneements in the Student Activities Office. RIDE wmted to Rochester Friday Feb. II. Returning Sunday Feb. 13. Call Holly 393-9740. Riden wanted to Philadelphia and surrounding area. Leaving Fri. Feb. II and returning Sun. Feb. 1'3. Call Ken at 374- 8088. Riden wanted to L.l. leaving Friday the Hth. Returning Sunday. Contact Jeff 6732. Ride wmted to Oceanside, L.I. or N.Y.C. on Friday Feb. 18 afternoon for 2 people. Please call Pat or Susan at 370- 6573. Ride wanted to Long Island Feb. J 8. Contact Rhonda 346-9848. B·b- Did you remember to say rabbit? Snap~r Fourth ftoor drinkers are the Best!!! (the comp110y) If fourth floor drinkers are the best, they why didn't they beat the second tloor\l Joe,, we are JUST FRIENDS! A;W. take your pukey! Pants! our of the hall' E'l'eryone should go to the Thursday Film Series, one of the least publicized events on campus. And whose fault is that'! The only drama major on campus. Guess who! Whippet Kid: Yes, yours are bigger, but if you don't start eating well and sleeping nights, .. tlley're going to shrink! Then you~ll have to start doing special exercises. Drag city! JM Knode: snap out of it - the rest of the world. Michael Alexander Lynn: You lift less. RR RR is Rich Reubenstone. Peter, I truly miss you. Please come back next term. CAP l'he disease: would you like me to cure your DLs? Is it true what they say about u highers? Gnuky - B.D.F. Cammy says she has a whole bunch. Hey Mo, what begins with ch and ends with eck and bounces? Peter, I thought you promised me that Friday last term to teach me how to.,Piay cards -I'm still waiting- OK! Friday Richmond guards can be interesting! Stq:s: ~you're tuff.\ Call me Susan!!! Stoner, \It naws me! Nancy and Soler !!!Melissa Vema: get well soon! Verna Dear Samantha - Please be my Valentine and keep working on it! Love those kisses - Seymour PRATT & WHITNEY AIRCRAFT GROUP REPRESENTATIVES WILL BE FEBRUARY 18, 1977 to interview candidates Consult your Placement Office. for degree and field of study requirements ·PRATT& WHITNEY ~\llf::. AIRCRAFT GROUP~¥&rlxoo.ES I An Equal Opportunity Employer I Male & Female Matt Bl'ief - I~ the story on the wall true~- Your horny coed R.A.E.'s Bob Pollard - I want your b<Jdy ,- A Secret Admirer Glenn - No you, fool, it doesn't work ... do you? Kt Tracey - room 414 loves you. Barb - You're welcome - 4th Door West Murray - We'll be there- Everybody. Cam - llhe BEST is yet to come. K Howie - rm glad everything worked out too! K Rotund - Just think, only 3 more weeks ~ then we hit '\Rotundi's Diner.\ Coquette and Sleeze Robbie - Would you like dinner with or without dessert? Shan and Kath Sharon - Dessert is always optional anyway, right?!!! K To - Mark, Jimmy, Drew, Kenny (Zeno), and Michael: Roses are Red, Violets are blue Were in Athens, Thinking of you. Happy Valentines Day. Love, 9Root, Lisa (chief); Cream cheese, Katz, and Molly. To A. Kellogg transfer? Dan. M. Why did you To Stacey M. - Enjoyed meeting you Saturday. Pete C. To Mark H. - Don't be so shy. Xaviera H.H. - B'Day Feb. 15th. Michael R. - I miss you!! Ron & Harris love Fred & Wilma. R. Walker - Hope you are happy ripping off people with the newspaper stand in the library. Thanks- pissed off. Wilmll - Fred is hot to trot, this weekend. Ciao Bella Dear Mr. & Mrs. Wall - We too value our friendship, but we cannot close the door to other .friendships. We do not wish to throw our friendship with the floors out the window. There is enough room for both friendships. - The Ceilings M - Where have you been hiding? I miss you. Don't forget the party. Congratulations Pat and Lisa! - 203 and 110 D.V.D. - Remember only I can make you forget all those'problems. I'm good for another! This time you lead. Who else hnt ... Daddy diMareo - Thanks for the Doggie!!!! Laura - We love you too, 4th floor West...and here's the personal to prove it ... To Mike and Dee - You two are as cute as shid ... Guess Who ... Bob Hogan Happy Valentines Day ... Your Secret Sweetie ... Effective Monday, February 14, cashing of student checks will be moved from the Cashier's Office in the Administration Building to the Campus Store in the base~ ment of Nott Memorial. The current regulations will continue in effect e.g., $50.00 limit and 10¢ per check administrative charge. As in the past, student pay checks will not be cashed on pay days. This change in location for student check cashing comes about for several reasons. Mr. Greene, Manager of the Campus Store, offered to take on this program as an additional service of the Campus Store to the students. It provides a more central campus location and will relieve some problems of congestion in the lobby of the Administration Building. This change effects only cashing of student checks. Payment of student bills, purchasing of 'loose stamps, etc., will continue to be in the Cashier's Office as in the past. In addition to the students, · the Campus Store will cash checks for faculty and staff if they desire. Hours will be continuous from 9:15 a.m. to 3:30p.m. To Steve N: Put an end to these games; satisfy your shadow. Mark H Dear Charlie Bassford: Here's to you my Valentine Telling you rm glad you're mine I know it's corny that this rhymes But we can't be perfect all the time. Your secret Valentine Fax is now officially \on the market.\ Anyone interested in owning a furry 'black and white, extremely ,mindless cat who has been malici!)usly accused of ·~pissing\ on other people's pants, contact box 297 or 208 Webster. Guaranteed not to run. You, know what's great about the 'personals' column? Anonymity, that's what! In the safety of this column you can reveal something shocking a.bo.ut John - What do the following h!lve in somebody without ever 1 using their reaf common? Khn ,f~rguson, Wheaton, name or anything any more specifi~ than Doctor Gumbo's Magi~ Juice, Farah, ,~omeone's initials. For instance, if you and a swift kid in the nastle§? Right - know someone who is a \homo\ you don't they make y<Ju \primal scream.\ have to name them, isn't that right St~;v~ M1ynard (Yoit) Loren? Or if yoq want to discuss the worst professor in the universe. you ca:n use .code Carol G - Sc;my for my attitude but names, isn't that sc;~ Professor Cad George? this is in the best interest ·Of both of us. I Or if talking about lobotomi~ed,ml,lta~~ still like you a lot. Love always - F. freshm~n. is your thing, iQitials ~~~ pr<Jtect. Dear Bill Smith valentine sends her love. Your secret Me-Happ:f Birthday! If we could give you a thesis, we would! Ee, piJ & LP To the person who wrote on the door t;tf Steinmetz that an American girl will not go for me - ''I suppose you have not met my girlfriends?'' Am I right? F AS f S.J.L. - Who would ever think ~hat 1 would want to go to a Bar Mitzvah? - B.H.K. Painters - Must be willing and able to handle roller. BYOP write Jlox 2248. I am relily sorry Danny, if I'd thought that you would have gotten mad, I. never would have said anything. Preppie Lo'l'er - What can I say? I love you. L.L. Bem Dup-0 - 19 is an excellent year -19 Mike - He who talks out of both sides of his m<Juth bites his tongue. Shorldn Mike - Why didn't you go home this weekend? Didn't think you could get it up. A.R. IIDd Jon Jon - Did anyone ever tell you that you have terrible handwriting? Mike Lynn - All of a sudden you like red curly hair? J.S. and Turk , Jimmy, Jimmy, Listen, listen. 1 spoke to L.K. and bought your ticket. You have to go. Little Boy CJathy - Your DeVine wasn't the Divine in the movie we saw, was he? Patti Jenny - I'm sorry to keep bothering you but there are only three weeks left. Love - Room 413 Laura - Here's your first personal. You're a great RA and a great person as well. Your aeross the hall pal Rock - If you're still wondering who \your mailbox\ might be, contact Box 966 ... P.S. Do you live in Davidson or West? Your Mailbox the innocept - cau:h., ·.\liY'' lirift, 'Mait~ Lubart.? All hail the personals column where the anonymous can -rema'in innocentt Marshall W.jsoff A:bou Ben Adhem: It's been two great years, and the future is ours: ·'Love ·you - Anael .: - · · I aaree, all the best looking 'guys ·art ill SigmaPhL , ' , · Dear April Fool: Who cares about J,!Jne 12? I wish it was March 2. Hating you until then ... Co-Ed. Harris: In honor of your impending birthday, 21 baby saplinss will be planted in the Pub\ (lining the entrance). Also, fiourescent footprints will ~ painted from the aforesaid edifice to Lenox Roas. Ex Roomie Retiliziill the odious fact that even Mike Ganz gets out more than I do lately, l must state to all my inqqiring acql!aintances that, contrary to popular belief, I am still alive.. However, I am cQntemplating suicide. MJR (P.S. 'Di, AJ, etc., l signed all my initials to this one so you know its mine.) You may ask why 1 (t11e above) could consider such an act when right now I possess everything that life has to offer .. ANSWER: I want more! Pi'esent!y, a pernicious element is touring the campus in the form of one bearded, rather pudgy, self-avowed genius. This senior RA has been the cause of all the social divisiveness and,1 assorted academic problems currently beseiging the campus. Not only is he a, lunatic and a nay- s.ayer but he is also dragging .several others down with .. diseased hands. This caimot continue. Anyone willing to dedicate (his 1 her) time to 1 the betterment of Uni<Jn College by ridding it of this· social leper may contact us any Friday night in the Dutch Hollow where we conduct our weekly meetings. (P.S. We must get him before June 12; after that he plans to branch out and infect other parts of the world.) The \Get Matt Brief\ ~oeiety Creep: I'm sorry. I'm still learning and growing. Etum Shorts To the Gang at RUC: You're doing a great job. Keep up the good work. N.A.S. To: Bob. B. & Ste'l'e N.: Thanks for the MSM: The last term for you and directions Sunday nite. Pete C. & Mark H. (soon)the last one for metod - but then what?- Love, HL To the wonderful Captain Tenderlo'l'e: I'm still alive, but are my birds? D.L. Half Breed: we know. now if we could only get you to do a, non-playbox show To: Dean W.: You stud, you star, just be. B. Man Stegall: Why the bird at West Sunday? Mouth To: Sari G.: See you later Buddy. Bob. B. X, WK, Susie: (enough with this silly code) About that dinner, gang: I hope you're up for some delicious aroiled Slush with Sauteed Carpet cos that's about the best I can do. Also, all personals that I write will always be signed\S\ 'accept no substitute. Ja£k The answer is 23 hours per day. What U Coli radio station stays on that long is the question. Four months from· this Satur(jay. See you then. Chest, Y.B.P. & J.B. Nice job so far ... only three more games to go... then the playoffs. Keep movin' dem cahz on' stay wahm. To: A. Kellogg: Where were you, I miss your lovely face. Bob. B. 'Chere IS 11 difference!!! PREPARE FOR: MCAT•DAT•LSAT•SAT GRE • GMAT • OCAT • CPAT • VAT Over 38 years of experience and success. Small classes. Voluminous home study materials. Courses that are constantly updated. Centers open days and weekends all year. Complete tape facilities for review of class lessons and for use of supplementary materials. Make,ups for missed lessons at our centers. ECFMG • FLEX NAT'L MEDICAL & DENTAL' BOARDS Flexibl'e Programs & Hours Our broad range Of programs provides an umbrella of testing Know- how !hat enables us to Offer the best preparation available, further improving the Individual course you·ve selected Bklyn. 212·336-5300 Manhattan 212·683·5005 Longlsland 516-538-4555 New Jersey 201·846·2662 Outside NY State Only ¥!k~ree 800·221·9840 C<nltrslft MljOt US C11>es CM-H ! o~!!AL CE!I. TER LTD 1675 E 16 St Bklyn NY 11229 TEST PREPARATION· SPECIALISTS SINCE 1938 .. To: E yo'Qrself, ··ney disappea_ Help: N'erds! A irrimedia1 ~reallY a next issu ·Diane To B( you P.R. MBG: M·~= you and Poodle:. and· Cbi ceiebrate Beware< ' '.Ate;·: Achilles~ J.'Ja~:, Pick the~ Andre iimcHo. Is it girls? ',,_,Mb~ ; from the 'be'admi• : ! .. t Neede tendencil 'cdlinji\fi ·not' ha'l\t fo Kini : ..... !· ·Mile: my insa• yoil? Gl! H...m 'broke th person o Third surgeon whippet! there is want t<J • All 1 widgets? Boo: I K1th: Kath: Kath: Kath: Dl!vi' try you Perhap1 dane in~ To tl \Youse Well it'1 You sal We'reg I'm gla1 Happy Spl\Ul by a ju these Yf King I am ta: Pugsley jerkey J meat o: you ar' mean p the job~

CONCORDIENSJS, Feb. 9, 1977 Paf(e 13 classifieos • • • ,. ' ·, r _!• • • ' > • Y' • \ '' '. • • • • To: B-Mao: Be wise, Be wary, Be yourself, Just .Be. The Boys ·· Hey Jay: Where'd the old wagon disappea_r to? Lost in the S-auce. Help: My happy _home is infested by Nerds! Any information as to where l can immediately obtain a Nerdalarm would be ~eat\}' appreciated. 'Please respond in the next issue. I'm ilesper11te!· · · · ·Dime· IS a cutie pie apple dumpling. To Bob. a.: Shave off. your mustache you P.R. LA. Kellogg .. MBG: The Sooner the •Better. SLS · :Mas:· O'ntii the· ·19th of March, missing you and loving you; Min Poodle: . Co~g~~dulations on Cofuinbia &nd. chicago. ·When .are we . going to ceiebrate. , i;i>ve, Rilff Beware or the Hark Ness 'monster!!! 1- •1 ~~1 :·. ' < '1!. > Afe., t~re ,.p1um5i~g prot:items in Achilles Sink? J.'Ja~:, 9D4 ~~itt you S!>flle .size 10. feet. Pick them up in the mail room. Sedpil:k Andrew: puU the plug in New York. Tbneto ~~he~me.;R~ebJird.' · Is It true what they say about u•high girls? ,:·: .. ·. · .• Mo: All· roses are not to be plucked from theiF·brahches; some are .there just to •be·admired.froma distan~. Fuad Needed: One genius with suicidal tendencies to suspend an 800 pound false 'cellinjrfrom··the ·middle of nowhere. Must · ndf have· a fear 'of heights. Apply directly to Kini Hippo:! • '.if ! : · Mllei Your revenge would surely trigger my insanity. Now you don't want that do yoil? Glellil ' Harris: Tb.e look on your face when I 'broke the news! Now there's one less• crazy person on the floor. Glenn Third Door North Davidson: the surgeon ge11eral has determined that whippets cause· prostrate cancer. MBG: there is a coUect caJl from Kenya Do you want to accept it? All accountin1 10 students, what are widgets? Boo:· Happy Valentine's Day! Let's ski! Kathy: LGve is infectious. Kathy: And I was the victim. . Kathy: Th!' worst case you've ever seen. Kathy: Cause you really left me sore. David: if you don't get in maybe you'll try your h:i11d at an honorable profession? Perhaps body building (and muscle dancing on the side). To the Knude: \You say it's your birthday Well it's my birthday too, yeah You say it's your birthday We're gonna have a good time I'm glad it's your birthday Happy birthday to you\ Spriflct~teen: I WO\lld ~~t be convicted by a jury of my peers, still crazy after all these years. Mo King James the First - or Big Mac - I am taking from you my bicycle, my chair, Pugsley's virginity and 100 lbs. of beef jerkey from the larder. Eat Hardy! (More meat on him than Laurel). When you say you are looking for a queen, does that mean people from both sexes can apply for the job? 28 1{ates Street Schenectady, N.Y. 377-8584 Have you ever noticed that you never see Lester 'Weiss and David Moskowitz in the same place at the same time'! It's because th.ey're the same person! The minute one disappears, the other shows up, and vice versa. Who said 'Union College wasn't located smack dab in the Twilight Zone? In \An Evening wjth Kierkegaard and the Theory of Ma~etic Fiel!l Energy Diffnslon\' you will see ~ well, we're not sure what you'll see because we haven't written it yet. It'll be dirty, though. That'll be fun, won't it? Maybe some freddy Prinze jokes. Hey Mo: Who was that small wooly animal I saw you with last night'! \That was no small wooly animal; that was a little boy;\ So much for heterosexuality. ~ an irate ranee Tony Tbe Tiser: It's grnrreat to have you ,back. Love, You know sho Mertlan Sp11ce Potty,. That slim lead won't last. for long. Besides any woos Cl\n get through with a push•button .phone. The Webster Blue Notes RFG: Do you still have SO ways? Urgent.JR NTJ: Are you the man to see about the 60 ways to meet your lover? EKH: Does salvenlinis fontinalis really mean c~itus interruptus? Bob Traver RFG: Is long distance the neKt-best thing to being there? Jaek's friends KFI: Does the red car have Kaola envy? JAF Wanted: unused independent study. GGB Colonel, If it weren't for class it'd be just like last. term. MMM Carol, Thanks for the lasagne, you're ,always there, which is nice- 408 Janet, Happy Brithday. Moze To lnd floor Ril:hmond talent: You're the best. Moze Renee, puke and you'lllive. Moze To all the wise guys on 2nd floor RlebmOJid, Thanks for a great floor meeting. You're all really weird. Moze Airhead, I really hope you're f~~Iing better and psyched to \ready OK\ this weekend. Married couple looking for swinging male .and/ or female. Kinky. Send Photo . WG&: CW Island Girl: Does the master let you read this paper? The Baite Shoppe Let it be known throughout the kincdom that good Sir Robert of Rue has officially granted the honorary title of \His EKness of Formitude.\ Good sir Rohert may be addressed as \Your exitude,\ \Your Formemess,\ \Your exitude of formerness\ or \Your Mother?\ To a troubled Rucer: HANG ON. There is an old proverb that says all bad things will pass after a time ... or a few times anyway. Lester Weiss: Those shirts you'.re selling? You know, the ones depicting hockey players as bloody murderers? Well, in honor of your tact .and fairness, we've decided to start up a 'great new club: \Let's Kill and Maim and Rip Apart and Make Minestrone Our Of Lester Weiss Society.\ A subtle title, we know, but the thought is still there. Now that we know where you live, Lester, you will, in the words made famous in describing Luca Brasi, \sleep with the fishes.\ Bye! •---· =:- .r Hair Design All phases o~ Are . our Hazrcuts. . l Beautiful Tru Y ·p't f ran ap · ca\\ peter ~ ........ ~.--- _ _._.pEftStAN MENNA ,. 5 OJo DISC~%b~~:s cHERS & · d TEA ll haircuts a~ on a nt wavmg permaneF b & Mar. d for e · · l Goo K' hi's. 0 rigma te o·l ,Musk r H . Removing atr Method H: You~re such a nice guy! me Ris: Doing anything the eighteenth? Lap~ Kath, Things will get better. Chuckles: Thanks. We coulqn't have done it without you. ML & CL MSM: Come again, please! We like you! everybody here L&L: Let's make plans. Love, the litlle bitch Mir: This one's for you. -An Brucie: Who loves you; do it .huh! •the five man suite Marla: The concert was really a dream, Julie lost your ticket. Glen Davison: Sorry to see you go. Good luck, and stop back up. The guys downstairs (Phi Si&ma Kappa) Leezle, If you go to C.W. Post be sure to teach them how to write acceptance letters! jDP To our Future Physical Chemist, Congrats on Indiana and Brown, we hear Princeton is going to give you 10 grand. Sue & Cookie By authority of King James I, and Sir Wllliam Murphy, 1 hereby claim the title of The Duke of Lenox Enormous: I heard that in 1979-, U.S. Med Schools .are not accepting anyone whose last name begins with a \P\ -the \Doctor\ 3rd Floor South: To all who have made contributions to the \wishing well,\ thank you. ·a student working his way through college Wad: Enjoy the action in Chicago, it's cold there now so don't do anything before covering up; The boys Enormous: This guy fro~ \Riple~'s Believe It or Not\ has been trymg to get m touch with you, too bad you're always busy discussing SN2 with the Prof. Make Big Red your brand: -The W;igley· Chewing Gum Co. fd like to. ELF Fat chance. -the Will of Landrew Enormons: . Your sideburns are ugly. General Burnside Wad: Clean up when you're finished. The maid Z: How's Laurie, or Sue - or whatever her name .is. Do you know? Friday Spock here, Captain. Security reports that they've arrested Lt. Uhura for indecent exposure on Deck S. Barb G: Happy Birthday! llave a great 19th. -Jessica Doug: ... your eyes turn my flicker into FLAMES ... please tame my FIRE - Caro mio!!! Cara-mel Dear Dinky: Please clean the bathroom. love, Phil Sweethe11rt: Come back to your meatball. Love, Meatball The Bitch is Dumped. To Bruce and the Band: Great concert. Ira PWB or WPB I don't believe it, but good luck! Wanted: One date (male) for Winter Carniyal Ball. Applicant must be witty, charming, easy-going, fun-lov1ng, interesting, intelligent, and half msane. Send resumes te Box 163. To all the guys who ba.rtended at the party last Friday night in Old Chapel: Go suck a, lemon! Cin We should declare a National Holid~y for the first full weekend this term. You're such a sweetheart. Steve CB: It's about time you did something, isn~t it? WY AL \ LC: I'm beginning to miss math even though you weren't there on Wed. M. CG &. JT Do you guys still go here'1 Old roommates should not be scorned. \Fonz\ Paul, how~s the second oar? Only Neil ltnows what goes on behind closed. doors! T&.G JRP: How far has ~the professor\ gotten on your thesis ... By the way, thanks for the want ad. ·Phil, Thanks... I could have used your independent study but... is 200 dollars a fair price?GGB JRP Is it true that the alumni· paid you for that goal! DC hockey team Girls, (and everyone else who helped to make my birthday the best ever) Thank you so very much! Walt Donna G: Thanks for the dinner - whatever it was! Wendy&. Gordie: We had a great time. Donna & Danny Jim: Happy Valentine's Day ... sort of! J: Wantto dance? GGG: Congrats on your 100 thermo. Mom Pitts-berg: You are not the second coming of Bobby Hull. Ned Coco: Did you send in your transfer papers? The Landlord Steven Howell: Ask not for whom the GONG tolls ... NBC Dear Wonderful Matt the 4th Door R~A. in West·: Just a note wishing you a VERY HAPPY VALENTINE'S DAY!!!. With love, Your Secret Valentine Diamond: Thanks for telling me the prank before I found out myself. Burgles (Nipped out again. Izods are sacred!) RFG: My four-legged friends bark not . squeal. RG: The Windy City pays half - but does it give double? Attention Rick Siegel: The T.G.I.F. Club represents an oppressed group of beerdrinkers. We want free peanuts!!! Signed: RFG, GGG, CAM Needed: one thesis, soon, very soon!_ Tinkerbell, Te encuentro cute! Love Peter Pan Terry, I ghink you're beautiful! Really! So do my friends. Guess who Joan G. (aUas Tlnkerbell) Regardless of what you think I am not in love with you! Will you marry me? P -P. To my favorite preppie, otherwise known as L.L.Bean. Happy Valentine's Day.l.L.Y. From your favorite sine curve. Happy V. D11y Jimmer! Sort of...! ML Hope yo1.1're feeling. better., colds are always convenient when papers are due. Prince or Wales: You have a good shoulder. THANKS. LB: Do you have a lot of wo.rk? Well, I have more, of course. More M everything. You with the look. t() kill: How come it's not working on a few? Is tbat Jenny under the bed? Who else can turn their legs in 360:degreeangles? CW: Depressed? depressing? depression? To get away from it,all ,bead for the Green Reservation! Debra: Lets all love one another. Richie Gruskee lives in Syracuse. Lipper Bamd is a great day to day man. RR Evan struggles to lift H () pounds!! RR .Drew, Danny, Micbael & Brian, Thank you for cheering me up! Your messages were the greatest. 1 miss you all a lot. Love, Kate Commy, Anll & Nancy, Ycm guys are terrific! I look forward to seeing you in the Spring. I miss yotr. Love, :Kate Drew, I still love you more than ever. P.S. I miss you like crazy too. Love, Kate From Concon!y Jan. 26. Thanks for the skating compliment, whe>ever you are. By the way, who are you? Pasquini Leslie, That was nice ~>f you to put last week's personal in. Thanks! Your little sis Sari, Cheer up! The cheer will cheer you! March 3 guys, it's a lo!J.g 'time. Happy Birthday Laurie, we alway~ knew that you'd reach 10 sol!leday. Hey chipmunk! We'll keep the squad together somehow. We've done it before and we'll do it again. Slinky &. Laura. Factory looked good. Keep it up. Shdler studios will rna){e you peppy! Faith, Work on your three-turns. lee is nice since you can skate. FOR LIQUOR AND WINE Try Jake Lipstein' s 464 State Street 374-188& BUSINESS OPPORilJNITY Stuff Envelopes $25.00 PER IIUNDRED Immediate ·Earnings Send $1.tl0 To: Envelopes Dept. 339A 310 Frankli11 Street Bosto11,Mass. OZllO

, Page 14 CONCORDIENSIS, Feh. ~~ 1977 ·6port5 Icemen of the Week This week's outstanding players were centerman Doug Feasby arid defenseman Peter Crawford. Both performed excellently in Union's hard fought victories over Salem State (5-4) and Buffalo (8-4). Feasby, a scrappy freshman who hails from Stouffville, Ontario, scored four goals and had three assists .in two games. Besides racking up the points, Feasby had a high face-off percentage and was all over the ice pressuring both opposing teams. His 16 goals are the most among the freshmen and his 30 Doug Feasby Peter Crawford points tie him for the most points by a first year player. Crawford, a hard-hitting, heady freshman who comes from Belleville, Ontario, assisted on three goals this week, bringing. his assist total to 27, tops on tl;le team. His 30 .po\nts tie him witf1 Feasby for the freshmen point lead. Crawford played superb defense' and led many a rush up ice. Against Buffalo, Crawford played with a protectiVe . dea:t plastic mask but his injury did not intimidate his play in the least as he displayed his usual aggressive talents. · Orientation '81 is in the midst of being or.ganized and we need people who are willing to take on a great deal of responsibility and do a l.OT of work in planning for Fall Orientation of incoming and freshmen and transfers. Positions available on the Orientation Committee include two co-chairpersons and sub- committee heads in charge of food, transfer students, commuter students, and enter- tainment, among others. ATTENTION SENIORS SENIOR SA.IL Women Split..TWQ This past week proved to be one of inconsistant basketball for the Dutchwomen. The. teatn split two games, winning at home in a well played game and losing on the road in a game marked by numerous errors. . : . ·. ~· , : . . , ... q i'• 1 ·' ·: .. !. · .. ,.4 R. P.l. were simpiy ,n.,oq:ue~~~~ ~t Cobleskill. Offensive . mo~ipn ~~s inevident, the result being.~· w~ry low total in the Union column. The opponents took an earlY. .lfi!l:d and held it througho\lt. They continually hustled b.ehind the Union defense for easy scores~ At the end Union found themselves .on the short end of the 80,29 score. June 9, 1977 (Thurs. eve.) Tickets for the senioi: sail booze cruise on Lake George now available at the Student Activities Office Each $10.00 ticket includes: Applications will be available in the Student Activities Office starting Thursday, February 10 and are due back in that office by Friday, February 18. If there are any questions, please contact Craig Carlson, Athletic Dept. or Patti Curran, !lox 1425. Live entertainment by \Prime Time\ Cocktails - 4 per ticket holder Food - catered by Maurice's Combining strong individual efforts, team psyche, and the home· court advantage, Union soundly defeated R.P.I. A running offense and solid pressure defense were the keys to the victory. The result of the effort was Union 46-R. P.l. 31. One place reserved aboard the \Ticonderoga\ Creative, semi-formal attire required Only a limited number of tickets are available. Buy yours week! For more information see Mrs. Marra or Eli Portnoy SENIORS: This is going to be the last fling of your coUe~e career. don't miss it! The qualities exhibited against fCbere IS 11 llifferen&e!tl PREPARE FOR: MCAT • DAT Over 39 ~rs of experience and success. Small classes. Voluminous home !rudy materials. Courses that are constantly updated. Centers open days and weekends all year. Complete tape facilities for review of class lessons and for use of supplementary materials. Make-ups for missed lessons at our centers. Classes for April exam NOW forming. Starting in February - Albany Area Our broad range of programs provrdes an umbrella of testing know- how that enables us to offer the best preparation available. further 1mprov•ng the mdividual coursey you ve selected Syracuse Ctr. 315-451-2970 OutSide NY State Onty ~:.~~ 888-221-9840 Coolo<IGI ~ US (;lilts -~-H. ! D~ONAL CE~ER LTD 1675 E 16 St Bklyn NY 11229 TEST PREPARAliON SPECIALISTS SINCE 1'938 I••••~••••••~•••••••••~; I ,.,~ . - .. • I ~ N I M I l Wf3~r~ I I N I N I II I The last week of trivia is on Wednesday, .. = February 16th at 10 p.m. Tune in and try : I to call in your answers. II = Memory Bank continues every Wednesday· = 1 and Friday at 1 p.m. The game is quick... II 1 so listen carefully and cheer your team on. 11 • • I Programming guides are still available. I I Come on up to the studios for yours. I . ... • • • • • •• • • .......................... COLLEGE WEEK A..T KILLINGTON. FEB. 14-18. 30% OFF day tickets & 5-day packages. College ID needed. Ski 4 mountains, 52 trails, ll lifts. The PENNY PINCHER QUALITY CLOTHES- J..,OW PRICES USED BUT NOT ABUSED CUR..RENT STYLES 1122 ALTAMONT AVE. (Entr:ance Bernice St.) \Iue:sda::r - Saturday 10·5 Thursday'\still 9 p.m. 356-2571 FAMOtlS F''(i).R DIAMOND VALUES -l!!lil!!!:iJ!I:iill.'il Maurice B. (;raubart & Sons ------------'The Jay St. Jeweler' 'Serving Union For Three Generations' 166 J•y St. QuaUty Service & Fine Workmanship • J.IERSHEL MAURI.CE B WALTER ; ' The upcoming games for this team are: away at Skidmore on February 10,\ and home against Utica on the 12th and Siena on the 16th. Alcur Llqu«Jr Center Liquors:- Wines ~ Cordiols · 751% EASTE~N AYt':. COilNER JACKSON LOWEST·PIUCES ALLOWED IN N.Y. STAT.£ Union Pharmacy 610 Uldoil St. Mm&Womm Studnu .. Neet/$ 374-lAS SPRING TERM PRE·REGISTRA TION NOTICE Pre-registration materials for spring term 1976-77 will be. av!lilable at the Office of the Registrar, Room 2,. Administration •uilding, beginning Monday, February 21st. Students are urged to promptly secure their copy of these materials. Students Who do not plan to return to Un.ion for the spring term, except for . graduating seniors, mu~t immediately give notice of . their plans to the Offict of the Dean of Students. Potential Mar.ch graduates should inform the Office of the Registrar of their plans to · imish their studies at the end of winter term. Students sltould confer with Faculty Advisers during the week of February 21-25. Some departments may · announce · special arrangements for advising. Please b~ alert for such announcements. Course re·quests are due at the Office of the Registrar not · later than Monday, February 28th. A TEN DOLLAR ($10.00) LATE FEE WiLL BE ASSESSED. THEREAI'TER . - by LJ Last to a 75· Engine' Fieldh< the pn made earlier ballclul The were Se half. Nearpa unbelie lJnio11 goals~· 20 wh~ next 1 Union S~evr in · the points. breaka Union Howe' Bill M cut· t~ Nearp: own h with s En gin• were c 55-37 AI ' the ~e shootir and M this l Nearp! Ste' rebom Union baffles last 1 accorn mind; to be: by c This upped imp res: a COl Trinity suffere• single 1 lhe out to never Dutchr saw locker The D ball, tc the &ec gain t minute and tu• State ' second score ' Union

CONCORDIENSIS, Feb. 9.1~(7 Page 15 sports Hoop Evens Record by LANCE BOBROW Last Wednesday, Union rolled to a 75·61 triumph over the R,.P.t Engineers before 1,000 fans at the Fieldhouse. This victory signifies the progress the Dutchmen have made as th~y were blown out earlier in the season by the same ballclub. The game was. close until there were seven minutes left in the first half. At this. point, Steve Nearpass bagan to make some unbelievable· ·passes that set l!P Union .teammates for easy field goals: The Dutchmen were up 21- 20 when Neatpass assisted on the · m:xt 10 Union points to help Union .gain a 33•25 half~ime lead. Last Saturday, the Dutchmen reached the magic .500 mark turning back Trinity 89-73 by brea'king open a tighJ ballgame in the second half. The triumph marked the fourth straight victory for Union who is now lH~. The defeat left the Trinity Bantams with a 5-7 mark. The first half was basically run and gun as Steve Nearpass hit all six of hjs field goal attempts and added two free throws to net 14 points -by· halftime. Union was down 28-24 before taki!lg off on a 17-8 spurt to .go ahead 41·36 at halftime. Steve .Abba 1 started off Union- hi. the secon<i, half, Trinity ill ·the \irecond half with four batt'led back. to knot the score at points. Steve Nearpass added a 51 1 The ba~lgame was. tied a breakaway !>ucket a~d quickly · .,number of tlmes. but this would Union was ahead by 14 poil)ts. i>t;Jb,e elosest the Banta~s would However, the· Enginee~;s behin~ be down the stretch. U~10n th_en Bill Mansell rallied and ·quickly ran ·off a .10-Ltear as fVhke Sm1th cut- their deficit to six. Steve sparked the rally, giving Union a Nearpass then took matters in his 61-52 lead. The Dutchm~n stayed own hand by hitting AI Walker ahead than~s to 10, st~a1ght ~oul with several passes and before the shots, 4 of them by M1ke Sm1th. Engineers could realize it, . they were out of the ballgame trailing 55-37 with 9:26 .remaining. AI Walker scored 15 points in the ~econd half on 7 of f2 shooting. Borgese added 14 points and Meola II but the real hero of this game was unmistakably Nearpass. Steve had 15 points, 9 rebounds; and 7 assists and led Union in all three categories. It baffles the mind to remember the last time any Onion player accomplished that feat. Keep in mind also that Nearpass is- going to be around a long titne The ballgame was won on the foul line as Union connected on 29 of 37 chances compared to II of 16 for the Bantams. Mike Smith finished the game with 21 points, 14 of them coming in the second half. Steve Nearpass added 18 points. Pete Meola and AI Walker topped Union with eight rebounds to keep Union in the game against the taller Bantams. Union is now 8-8 for the season With a tough road ganie looming this Saturday against C. W .Post. Hopefully, many Union fans will be in attendance as .it . is also a chance to go home. However, in case you are not at the game, broadcast time wiU be 7:55 over WRUC. Hoopster of the Week This week's outstanding performer is freshm~n Steve Nearpass from Seneca 1--alls, N.Y. Steve scored 15 points .against R.P.l while successfully directing the Union attack. On the road against Trinity, Steve helped lead the Dutchmen to victory by continually connecting on jump shots when the rest of the team hit cold spells. Steve has shown tremendous improvement over the course of the season and will surely be an imporrtant factor in future basketbaut success at. Union. Hoopster drives the lane . ·swim Te,am Sunk Twice Why does the Union Swim took 2nd place in the 200 yard Team bring out the best in every butterfly, a race which Nick led team it -faces? until the last 25 yards and Marty That . is the question Coach K)ng easily won the 200 yard Magee and the members of the backstroke. Union's toP swim team are asking themselves. performer against Albany was Last Wednesday afternoon Doug Richardson. Doug, a Albany State defeated the sophomore, whose consistent Dutchmen here by a final count performances both last year and of 59-49. Irv Kaufman swam well this year continue to amaze the for Union, picking up a 2nd place fans, won the 200 yard freestyle in in the 1000 yard freestyle and a a very exciting race. He also 3rd in the· 500 freestyle. Jimmy finished 2nd in the 500 freestyle. Lowe picked 'up two first places; Saturday past, the swimmers one in the 200 yard breaststroke journeyed through . the snowy and the other; which even the mountains of Vermont to Union squad' questioned as the Norwich. Norwich soundly official must have been affected defeated the Dutchmen .squad by by the stuffy air in the pool area, a score of 70-43. Although in the 50 yard freestyle. Rick Berman took 2nd place in the required diving. Nick Gassaway definitely not a powerhouse in swimming, Norwich unquestionably swam its best meet of the year against Union. For the Dutchmen, Doug Richardson placed 2nd in both the 1000 and 500 freestyle. Nick Gassaway, the top point getter for the team this year, won both the 200 individual medley and the 200 butterfly. The top swimmer for Union was Jimmy Lowe. Jimmy, whose 100 yard breaststroke time of I :02.3 ranked him nationally last year, is just beginning to get ''in shape\ since he took the past fall term off. He easily won the 200 breaststroke and placed 3rd in the 50 freestyle. TERM ABROAD DEADLINES JV Improves Record The appliution deadline for . 5' Fall Term Programs in · ~ England, France, and Italy has s been extended to TUESDAY, · f ·FEBRUARY 15. by CHARLIE OPPLER This past week the J.V. team upped their record to 7-3 with an impressive victory over R.P.l. and a comeback thriller against Trinity. The only loss was suffered at Albany State by a single point. Albany State lhe Danes from State jumped out to an early lead -but could never pull away from the Dutchmen. A lethargic first half nw Albany head to the locker room with a 6 point lead. The Dutchmen playing inspired ball, took the game to Albany in the sec&nd half and managed. to gain the le~d with about five minutes left. The game was nip and tuck the rest of the way, with State winning with a bucket nine seconds from the finish. The final score was Albany State 63 and Union 62. R.P.I. The Dutchmen were seeking revenge firom an opening night loss at the hands of the Engineers. Although pla-ying a much bigger team, the Dutchmen contFolled the game from start to finish. The I st half ended with Union nursing a six point lead. In the 2nd half, it was all Union. The Dutchmen,. led by Chris Walsh and Rick Mirabito tore their opponents apart and opened up a twenty point lead, The final score was Union 68 and R.P.l. 50. Trinity The Dutcllmen played a strong first .half against the Bantams from Trinity and took their biggest lead right before the end of the half with Ben Pavek hitting a desperation shot lit the buzzer. The half ended with Union ahead by nine, (38-29). A complete reverse in the second half saw the Bantams take a seemingly ~insurmountable twelve point lead with eight minutes remaining. The Dutchmen fought back and finally tied the score on a jumpshot by Paul Knapp. The score remained tied as both teams traded baskets. Regulation time ended with the teams tied at 77. The Bantams hit the first hoop in overtime but then the Dutchmen took over and smart basketball red to the 85-84 victory. The Dutchmen look to win their eighth game in eleven starts when they play Hamilton tonight. Game time is 6:00. BULLETIN: The women's ice hockey game scheduled fo-: · Tuesday, February 15 has been cancelled. It has been reschedtded for Tuesday, March 1. 1977. Swimmer takes a dive Applications. for Union's summer Medical Term Abroad (Study of Socialized Medicine in Three Countries) are due no later than April 5 but should he submitted earlier. Those received by March l will be acted upon by March 4; those received by March 18 will be acted upon by March 22; afld thQse received by April S will be acted upon by April ':8. Information and appli- cation forms for all ••union Terms Abroad,\ as well as for other foreign study, are available in Humanities 211. Wrestlers -Bow by JON SCHORR The Union College Grapplers faced a tough Cornell team in their most recent outing and came out on the short end. The 29-11 defeat evened the wrestlers' record at 8-8 with three matches remaining. A small but boisterous crowd in the Alumni Gym came to lend their support, first cheering on Jim Sutton as he easily defeated his opponent. Sutton nearly pinned his man several times using the very effective cradle, even though he was bothered by an injured leg. Cliff Farrelf overcame a challenge by his rival in a tough action-filled match marked by a seFies of spectacular reverses. Co- captain Mike Paquette had an easy first penod, coming very close to pinning his opponent. The second period was much closer but Paquette protected his lead and gained the victory. In the unlimited heavyweight Qivision Fran Rindenello faced a much bigger opponent and was defeated. It must be mentioned that Rindenello looked quite impressive in defeat. The next match is Saturday at St. John Fisher. Starting time is 2:00. Be there-aloha! LUKE'S SUPERMARKET 830 EASTERN AVE. 8 AM· 10 PM 7 DAYS Full line of deli, cold beer and soda, produce and grocery.

!~e~l~6~----------~--------------------~C~O~N~C~O~R~D~l~E~.~~S~JS~,~R~e~b.~9~,~19~7~7--------~------~--------------------- a porte Track Team Wins Meet, Sets Records by ROCKY DOLAN The Union College Indoor Track Team played host to Hamilton, Albany State, Oswego, Colgate, and Sptingfield last Saturday, and came away with 79 points and a romping victory in the meet. Winners in all but two of the track and ~wo of the field events, the Dutchmen proved to be ungracious hosts. edging past a strong Sprin~field squad, and swamping the othel,\ visitors. Early in the day, Springfield piled up an impressive point total; taking seven of the first ten scoring positions (in the long jump and shot put). The balanced and determined Union group prevailed later in the afternoon, but only with their finest performances to date did the Dutchmen overcome their guests. Such was the strength of the comeback, nine of the eleven final events were won by Union athletes. Union was led by Bob Moffatt, who had an individual win and anchored two relays; and by Kevin Scheuer, the sophomore who is as yet undefeated in his ~:~pecialties - the thousand and one mile runs. Scheuer began his day's work with a big win over Bin Fisher, Colgate's state cross-country champ. He returned two hours later with another convincing thousand yard run victory. Seheuer's times were 4:17.9 in the mile, and 2:13.6 in the thousand, both efforts just short of his best times. Moffatt contnued his unbeaten string in the six hundred yard run with a convincing romp in 1:12.6, excellent mid-season time for the IC4A qualifier who has not run over I: 13 in this .event. With some help from. his teammates Moffatt Was in front twice more on Saturday ·- anchoring the one and two mile relays in his usual trusty way. In a big way, Moffatt showed his versatility by entering the long jump and placing fourth with an effort of 21-3!-~: .a measurement not short oi most dual-meet winning leaps. Sophomores Matt Blum ( I st in 7.0), Mark Decker (2nd in 7.1 ), and Phil Stegeman(3rd in 7.1) once again swept the 55 yard high hurdles. Blum and Dec~er, co- holders of the fieldhouse record for the event, are both likely q u a I i f i c r s f o r t he I C 4 A Championship!> in March. Sophomore Earl Chilton had his best effort of the season and won the triple jump by over a foot against strong competition. Classmate Tom Howes had another fine day, jumping 42-2% to place fifth. Chilton's winning leap measured 45-8!4. Senior co-captain Bruce Bonano had his best effC>rt of the season - copping the pole vault at 13-6. Junior M1ke May placed fourth at 11-6, his career best. Freshman Dave Cozzens, already well ahead C>f the field, and already qualified for the IC4A meet, continued on to new heights and leaped 6~8Y2, his best lifetime effort. Teamma\es Cliff Rogers and Keith Crimmins both cleared 6..0, placing fourth and ftfth, respectively. In the 50 yard dasli Union freshman Ed Dingman was a favored entry, but pulled. a hamstring injury midway through the event. Sophomore Lee Parish charged past the faltering Dingman and placed third in 5.6. Senior Stan Wiskoski faced off against Fisher of Colgate in the two-mile and came from behind Dave Cozzens clears bat jor record on the last two laps to nearly catch the Colgate all-star. Wiskoski's time was 9:35.0, .I ahead of third' place and two seconds behinti Fisher's 9:33.0. placing third in the six hundred yard run at l: 16.7, and running two fine relays before and after the event. '1-J ' scorer had either given his best career effort or had not been pressed hard .~mough by their . competition. Ten UColl athletes had their finest days ever (not Coach Ken Michelsen was including the hurdlers, wlio Qnly Union once again managed to \very very pleased\ with the swept their event for the secood assemble winning relay quartets results of tpe day's proceedings, week in a row), and so there is at the front and back end of the especially following the reason for Michelsen's pride in bis meet. In the two-mile relay disheartening loss to Plattsburgh fine young bard-working teaQ). sophomore Pete Pettit, Wiskoski, the week before. Michelsen He has the team entered as and freshman Pete Vielkind pointed out with pride that as individllals in Syracuse ' this combined to hand Moffatt a many as 8 or 9 of his athletes will Wednesday and is expecting narrow lead on the anchor leg. likely qualify for tne IC4Ns, and nothing but the bes~ frpm his Moffatt turned in a split of 1: 57, that on Saturday every UColl forces. ' good for an <)Verall time of 7:58, · ·· k and good for a 5-second margin Trackste·r· of th· e Wee over second-place Colgate. ln the · · · · . · . . . · · • · .· ·. · · · . . . last event of the day freshman Junior Co-captain Bob Moffatt Matt Guilfoyle, Vielkind, is this week's trackster of the Scheuer, and Moffatt once again week. At home on Saturday, Bob on anchor sewed up_ th~ meet ~or started by competing in the long the Dutchmen~ .wmm~g gomg ju.mp, only his second aw~y f~om Sprm!lfield m 3:2y.9. competition in the event. Th1s 1s a~ excellent t1me Surprisingly~ he cleared 2'1·3% to considering tbat many on the place fourth. Next, Moffatt took group had already competed two the baton on the anchor leg of the or three times. Pete Vielkiud, for two-mile relay and turned a close instance, continued his consistent race into a runaway with a split of dependable performance by J:57.0. An hour later he defended his unbeaten string in the ·six hundred yard run by running away from ·the field in 1:12.6, Finally, Bob took the baton once again in the mlle relay and clinched a fi,ve-way win for Uniop. by disappearing from the fi~ld with a SO-$econd split. Bob has had the fastest time iil New York State in the six hundred yard run, this winter, and i~ d:1e defendi*g state champion. · Dutehtnen Defeat Buffalo· by RICH GUARDIAN Two periods of sloppy play by Trailing 4-3 as they left the ice the Dutchmen made little after the second period, the home difference in the final outcome, as squad came from behind to bo.ost a five goal final twenty minutes their record to 14-2-l, 7-1 in by the Union skaters led them to Division II, before a packed an 8-4 revenge victory over the Achilles Rink crowd last Bulls of the University of Buffalo. Saturday night. HOCKEY STATISTICS 17 games - Won 14, Lost 2, Tied 1 Name Gls. Asst. Pts. PIM *Churchill, Kip 18 21 39 6 *Marshall, Don 19 19 38 12 Judd, Grant l3 19 32 10 Feasby. Doug 16 14 30 14 Crawford, Peter 3 27 30 56 Willers, Dean 13 16 29 16 Kardos, Kevin 8 21 29 12 Jenkins, Mark 9 16 25 6 Pappas, Charles 12 9 2.1 6 *Rankin, Jack 3 16 19 28 Pahapill, Tom 6 9 15 22 O'Rear, Tom I. II 12 18 Hinterberger, Brad 5 4 ~ 20 Mathewson, Dean 2 6 8 18 Kaminski, -Bernie 2 3 5 43 O'Connell, Mike 2 2 4 8 Currie, Dave I I 2 0 Haley, Mark l 0 1 8 Baker, Steve 0 I 1 0 UNION 138 224 362 341 OPPONENTS 54 69 123 358 Goalies Mins. GA Saves GA Avg. Save % Baker, S. 637 31 290 2.92 .903 Baxter. J. 394 23 135 3.50 .854 Dutchmem Edge Bulls in First The Dutchmen entered the game with one defenseman injured and another benched by the league. Peter Crawford played with a face mask to protect his swollen nose and black eye, injured when a Salem State player punched him during the traditional post-game handshaking last week. Dean Mathewson was benched for one game after receiving a game misconduct that same night for decking a Salem State player when he came to Crawford's rescue. Buffalo's John Moore stopped a barrage of Union shots in a penalty marred (28 minutes worth) first period. The Dutchmen finally converted with a powerplay g<>al at 6: 12 by Doug Feasby. Following a three-goal hat trick against Salem State, Feasby poked in the rebound of a . Don Marshall attempt on the rebound of a Mark Jenkins slap shot. But the game was tied just one minute later on a Bull powerplay wnen Baxter saved a hard shot hut lost the rebounding puck. Grant Judd put Union ahead again during 4 on 4 hockey. Tak:ing passes from Crawford alld Kip Churchill, he took a shot from. the right point ·which flew by Moore for the a game misconduct) to a Buffalo score. The Dutchmen seemed to player but a strong performance· answer the fans chant for another by Moore shut them out. The tide score when Marshall scored on of the game continued to change another Union powerplay. Feasby as the Bull bench ttio}:lbecJ passed to Jenkins who hit Gruarin when he took an erran't Marshall in the slot just right of Union pass and scored unassisted the goaltender for a 3-I lead. on a breakaway. Buffalo scored the final goal of the period when good forechecking prevented the Dutchmen from clearing the Five Unanswered Goals puck. No one cleared a Buffalo Give Dutchmen the Win player ftom inside the crease and Baxter never had a chance to stop the puck. Second Period Gives Buffalo the Lead Seven penalties and some very sluggish play led to Union's relinquishing the lead by the end of the period. The Dutchmen had trouble setting up in the few powerplays they got and. were shut. out for the entire period, the first time this has happened .at home since the overtinie period against Western Onta~io in Oecember. Buffalo's Ray Gruarin scored the tying goal. at 12:12 on Steve Baker, who replaced Baxter who fell ill and reportedly has the flu or mono .. The Dutchmen had two minutes to score on a 5 on 3 po.Werplay which came as a result of seven minutes of pellalties (plus After 40 relatively unproductive minutes Union came on in the final period- for a victory. Mike O'Connell took a slap shot from the right Which Brad Hinterberger scored on. Chuck Pappas put UniQn ahead for good at f 4:26, sticking the puck past the left foot of Moore. Judd upped the lead with a shot from ten feet out and Pappas made it 7-4 with another rebound score. As the ' fans chanted \Go back, go ba-ck, ·,go back to. the . snow!,\ ' Je.nldns capped off the scoring with a shot from almost parallel to the left post on an impossible angle, the second such goal he has scored this year. ' The Dutchmen face Williams at home Wednesday night and then go to Plattsburg on Saturday for another div.isional game. Last the Con its secor. a~demi' of the·rr Athletic decide .procedu befollo~ thoroug points c After busin~ the Sen; CollUni1 cons• ·Profes1 DiviSiOI with a: which eilbora suggesti Jut Tu, The educati Wells, Educat f()r CQII such establili implem need fc facilitie that d Priori De vel(] Athleti sense relative and w sports sugge1 ackno~ bet wet: sports d.irec· . \Depar involv consid the c permi1

··~ r: ·.~ c~ --~ c 'J. :JU Volume 106, No. 14 Febru~ry 16, 1977 Honors Program Delineated by DAVID G~SS At the beginning of this week, copies of a final report were distributed to each R.A., student member of the Educational Policy Committee, student .representative in the College Senate, Faculty me m b e·r, a n d a cad e mi c administrator at Union College by Professor Byron Nichols of the Pofitical Science Department. The thirty-one page report, ,entitled \Proposal to Create an Honors ,progra~ at Union College: The Steinmetz Curricuh,tm;'' was made possible by a grant to Union by the Mellon Foundation. During the Fall-Term of 1976-77, Dr. Nichols was freed from normal teaching obligations through this gtant so that he could ..... analyze the education which Union College currently provides to its best students and.,.suggest ways in which that education might be improved or expanded.\ Senate Debates Athletics In the introduction to his report, Dr. Nichols states two basic goals of his report: \ ... to present the proposal contained herein to the College community for discussion and subsequent implementation... .and to make other individuals at Union aware of what is happening both on our own campus and on other campuses.\ Last Thu~sday, February 10, . the Colleg~; Senate convened for its second meeting of the present a~demic year. The primary focus of the: meeting was to diseuss the Atbletic Task force Report and decide on the appropriate .procedural avenues which should be follow~ to g\larantee \fair and thorough ~onside111tion of various points of view- on the issue!!-\ After resolving all tmditional business and two .minor .issues, the Senate reconstitl,lted it$Clf as a Co-.Jnit~ce of Jh~ Whole to eonsidet\ dle- 'TM.t .. ~ :l(~ri~ ·Professor Wens. ('Senator, DivisiOn II) o~n~ the 4ebatc with a series of .-c:comrttendations w.bicb . basically was ·an elaboJation on President Bonnet's suaaestions at the special meeting last Tuesday. The question of a physical edUc:atioil requirement, stated WeDs, should be deferred to the Educational Policy . Committee for colisideratfon of the merits of such a .progFam and the establishment of a 4;0mmittee for implementation. Recognizing the need for increased and improved facilities, · Wens recommended that tile Athletic, Planning and Priori'ties, and Cam.pus Development Committees and the Athletic Department agree oil a sense of priorities ·for facilities relative to the College as a whole and with respect to the various sports themselves. Lastly, he suggested that the . Senate acknowledge and support parity between men's and women's sports •''and refer the matter directly to the Athletic 'Department. The Committees involved, it was clarified, would consider particulStr issues within the constructs of the Senate's permission and charge. LEAGUE PROPOSED At this point the discussion moved to the issues which have plagued' the ca~pus community for so long: DiviSion I nockey and NESCAC. Professor Ted Bick, a spectator, delivered a recommendation that Union proceed along one of the lines mentionedin the Athletic Report, namely, investigating the possibility of fonning. a new athletic league. After the school gets a perma~ent Athletic Director, Bic~ said, the <;allege ' should . hotel a conference on , c~IQpijs; ·invite ,aJt the, N;ESCAC scb.oOt!i Bhd :otber eo~geJ such ·as N()rtheaste~. Brandeis;, Bucknell~ Ctarks()n, Rutgers, Lafay~tte, ,RPI, Cblgate, aad Forclham~ and attempt to c~tc a new athletic • aff\diation amongst these sehools. Such a league;. Bitk suggested. would function like an alternate Ivy League and would permit the expioitation of each school's affmation with other institutions of academic excellence. Union, he concluded, would be well seJ7Ved by the increased visibility, improved image, and public relations efforts _which would b~ conconunittant to: the formation of such an athletic league. NESCA£ RELATIONS The questions of our relations with the other NESCAC schools and what signals Union might be emitting Were then raised in query. Professor Tom Kershner, ex-Acting Athletic Director, said that if Union went Division I it would mean the severing of our relations with NESCAC. In response to the important question of whether the NESCAC schools would continue to schedule us in other sports if we were· to leave the conference, Kershner said that the AD's of the other schools had indicated that they would be les$ inclined to do ·so. The implicit rejection of the NESCAC philosophy and the different practices and standards our sports program would adopt, concluded Kershner, _WJl!Jld greatly decrease the likelihood of Union being !l.ble to maintain a schedule. with NESCAC teams. The Union's academic philo!!ophy and its image were discussed next. PrOfessor LeClerc (Senator, Division I) asserted that we . want to be associated with NESCAC for reasons that far transcend athletics. Severing our ties, he continued, would be a signal that Union perceives itself in a different fashion than before. Student Body President Jim Trump, a member of the original alumni and the c~mmuniiy committee that drew up Jhe mvolved through athletics, he . report, followed in the same vein. stated. Similarly, he continued, Not only do we not have hard the only way to secure outside data on the scheduling issue, he support was by becoming better stated, but th~tt is not the primary known. Division 1, he concluaed, consideration. He was concerned was the sun:st and most with ·· the i.Inplications of our immediate path towards this end. leaving NESCAC. If we do not Professor James Underwood want .post-season play, larger rebutted that internal affairs must schedul~s. increased recruiting, take procet;fure over the external. atid the granting of athletic The problem of the applicant schollirships, be concluded, Union pool, he stated, is one of quality should remain in. NESCAC. nQt quantity;, and there is no \What <lc>ts leaving NeSCAC evidence tJlat Division l would t~ll ·us· abOut bursel'ves?\ asked ameliorate the situation. He Trus~ Andy Koblenz. The i.ssue asserteO., · moreover, ·utat with of :athletics must be seen in · respect to image, we should Mt .perspective within Union's think in t~rms of theamorphous ••institutional- mission.\ the public, but must aim at selected important decision, K.oblenz · publics . - educators, the best maintained. was not an NESCAC_ students, g1.iidance counselors, or hoc:key, but as to what kind of etc . school Union wants to be. Jim Trump brought up the INTERNAL vs point that leaving NESCAC would hamper the education of EXTERNAL athletes by increasing the Robert Rasmussen, vice pFess~s on them. The NESCAC presi~ent for College Resources, philosophy reduces athletic said that Division I play would be pressures throughout the College. a boon for public relations. \l'm The school, he· added, should be in the business of selling Union,\ warned of embarking on a trail &:aid Ras~ussen. The College gets Continued on Page 10 Nichols points out that among every college and university that has an honors program, although the content of the program or the re~ources it requires ... · \may differ, · •. ~their commonality lies in their puwose, i.e., to challenge an institution's brightest students to develop their intellect and expand their knowledge as rapjdly as their ability and motivatioll permit.\ He goes on to describe honors programs at five different .institutions: Davidson College, :Jtowdoin College, Swarthmore College, Occidental COllege, and the College of William and Mary. Standards Then, NichQis turns to the situation at Union and comments: \In terms of formal academic programs and curricular opportunities, Union College currently offers nothing for our brightest,. most able students when consid~red as a lfOUp;\ Yet, ·, Continued on Page 10 Brownlee Elected to B~oard Dr. Paula P. Brownlee, Dean of the Faculty and Professor of Chemistry at Union College, was · elected to the Board of Directors of the Association of American Colleges at the Annual Meeting in New Orleans last Friday. Her election was announced by Dr. Frederic W. Ness, President of the Washington-based association. · The Board of Directors of AAC is composed of leading educators from colleges and universities across the United States under the chairmanship of Dr. Paul F. Sharp, President of the University of Oklahoma. AAC is a national association of more than 600 institutions which serve as settings for humane and liberal learning. Dr. Brownlee was. on the faculties of both Douglass and Rutgers Colleges of Rutgers University prior to joining Union College. She has also been on the faculty of the University of Bridgeport and worked as a research chemist for American Cyanamid Company. A native of \England and an Oxford 'graduate, Dr. Brownlee is active in American Women in Science and is on the Steerin Committee of Concerns of New York State Women - In Higher Education Administration. She is a member of the Commtttee on Placement Examinations of the American Chemical Society and is a Fellow of the Chemical Society in London. Dean Paula .Brownlee, another new position.

.. Page 2 CONCORDIENSIS, Feb. 16, 19'77 Alice in Unionland, Part 2: What to Do? The urifortunate wording of the introduction to· the · first installment was misunderstood by some to suggest that I adqpted someone else's stmy to Union College. To clear up any uncertainty,. it seems necessary to state that I wrote the original Johns Hopkins satire when I was there last year. Presently, she found. a long stretch of moss where the underbrush ended abruptly. She took her shoes off and walked on, marveling at the feel of the cushion below her tiring feet. She walked in much more comfort now and it was not long before she saw a · break in the trees-Another trail. She put her shoes on and went up to the edge, where she saw two men laying railroad track down the center of the footway. \Pardon me,\ she excused herself, \but could either of you tell me which trail I've stumbled on toT' \Ah'U handle this 'un,\ the big worker tole the other man. He turned to .face her and Alice found herself confronted by a corpulent walrus. \Well~ I think this 'un'll be psychology, now. Why?\ \I just wanted to know. I seem to be lost.\ \Lost in Unionland'! Tch. Tch.\ Alics's attention was diverted by the track. \What are you WRUC PROGRAMMING SCHEDULE SUNDAY 10 AM- 1 PM - DAVE MARKER (CLASS-ICAL) I PM- 3 PM- RUTH RAPPAPORT(CLASSICAL) 3 PM- 5 PM - ANDY DENNISON (BLUES) 5 PM- 8 PM -RICH STAUBER (ROCK) 8 PM-II PM - RANDY MEYERS (ROCK) 11 PM- 2 AM - DIRK HERMANCE (ROCK) MONDAY 2 AM- 5 AM- DAN PORTER (ROCK) 7 AM-10:30 AM- NEAL ADAM SCHWARTZ 10:30 AM-NOON- MIKE ROBERTS (ROCK) NOON:; 2 PM- JIM BAKER (ROCK} 2 PM- 5 PM - MITCH SINGER (JAZZ) 5 PM- 8 PM - MIKE LARSON (ROCK) 8 PM-11 PM - RICH FORSELIUS (ROCK) II PM- 2 AM - ROY ZUCKERBERG (ROCK) TUESDAY 2 AM- 7 AM - GORDON GLIDDEN (ROCK) 7 AM- 9 AM- DAN ROSENBAUM (ROCK) 9 AM-10 AM- LANCE BOBROW. (ROCK) lO AM-11 AM- RUTH RAPPAPORT (FOLK) 11 AM- 2 PM - DAVE BRAD LEE (ROCK) 2 PM-5 PM - ANDY SCHWARTZ (JAZZ) 5 PM- 8 PM - BETH HELMERS (ROCK) 8 PM-11 PM- GLEN EMELOCK (ROCK) 11 PM- 2 AM - MIKE ROBERTS (ROCK) WEDNESDAY 2 AM- 7 AM- MIKE ROBERTS (ROCK) 7 AM-10 AM~ MONDAY TAALLER (WAKE=UP) 10 AM-11 AM- MIKE PATNODE (ROCK) 11 AM- 2 PM - LLOYD SABERSKI (ROCK) 2 PM- 5 PM - ROB MAGAZINER (JAZZ) 5 PM· 8 PM - JOYCE FARLEY (ROCK) 8 PM-11 PM - NEAL ADAM SCHWARTZ (ROCK) 11 PM- 2 AM - JOHN TORO (ROCK-JAZZ) THURSDAY 2 AM- 7 AM - JENNY ANDERSON (ROCK) 7 AM- 9 AM - LLOYD SABERSKI (ROCK) 9 AM-10 AM- LANC~ BOBR~W.- (ROCK) 10 AM-11 AM- RUTH RAPPAPORT (FOLK) 11 AM-12:30 - OA VE BRAD LEE (ROCK) 12:30-2:30 - STEVE LEVINE (ROCK) 2:30- 5 PM - KERRY ACKER (JAZZ) 5 PM- 8 PM - BOBl K .(ROCK) 8 PM-11 PM - BOB POLLARD (ROCK) II PM- 2 AM - BACK TO THE SHADOWS FRIDAY 2 AM- 7 AM - RICH GUARDIAN (ROCK) 7 AM- 9 PM- DAN ROSENBAUM (ROCK) 9 AM-II AM - RICH SIEGAL (FOLK-ROCK) II AM-NOON- MIKE ROBERTS (ROCK) NOON-2 PM - RANDY MEYERS (ROCK) 2 PM- 5 PM- RUDY LU (JAZZ) 5 PM- 8 PM -CLIFF COHEN (ROCK) 8 PM-II PM - DOUG CARPENTER (ROCK) II PM- 2 AM - STEVE BLONSK Y (ROCK) by DAVE MENDELSOHN doing'!\ \Why I'tn layin' track. Ain't that plain enough'!\ \Yes. Yes, it is. 6ut why'r' \The Queen wants ta speed up the folks on the paths.\ \But you'll need trains and engineers. What for'!'' ''We'll need trains,\ he corrected her, ignoring the pertinent question. \No engineers?\ \Nope. You don't need no engineer if the track don't have no switchpoints, now do ya?\ \Well yet, I should think you would. What if ... \ \Bah!\ the Walrl:ls snorted. He turned to the track and told the man hoW to do the work. \Bullshit.\ Alice decided that it was an opportune time to resume her journey and so quietly slipped back through the underbrush. As dusk was settling, Alice was still in the thick of the forest. Fear was grappling up her backbone, making dull thuds as it climbed up each <lise. Her eyes shifted nervously in anticipation of odd creatures. \Oh dear. I hope I find a footpath before dark,\ she said to the forest. \Which path would that be?'• a voice called out. \Huh? Pardon me?\ Alice looked about, saw nothing. \Up here;'' the voice explained. Alice looked up tG find a plump pink cat lying lazily on the branches of the evetg_reen above. decide,\ she prompted .. \.1 don't think l could do that. You see, I wouldn't care,\ \l can understand that, but 1 do care.\ \Well grinned the Cat, \what would you like to be d<;~ing for the ~ ...... ~·· < - __.---·- ... ----·- ~ .... \Oh hello.\ \Hello said the cat, and stared silently. Alice regar<Jed him more closely~ He was nQt really so much like a cat as a silly stuffed representation of one. He had lavender stripes across the length of his back and a toothy grin that showed three times as much spad;:ling human dentition than a eat's mouth has any right to do. \Who are you?\ \That is the caterpillar's .question, buffoon. Anyway, I am the Cheshire Cat.\ \Well Cheshire Puss,\ she boldly endeared him, \could you tell me which way: one ought to walk to reach a path?'' \That would surely depend on where one wishes to be going. •• \But I'm afraid I'm not quite certain yet where I want to be.\ \Want it or not, you are quite certainly where you are.\ \But l hope to get somewhere. Perhaps you could help me rest of your life?\ \L.weU I'm afraid I just dori't know.\ \Then take any path or paths · you please. lt makes no difference.\ Alice noticed at this po~nt that the stripes of the Ott were unwinding. She stared· in wonder as the lavender stripes :vanished silently. \1t mcrkes no difference?\ \No;• said tbe Cat who was nqw just a fading head. ''But why not?\ she g1,dped. \Because you won't get a job when you get out of here anyway,\ the smiling teeth answered. This was all that was left- of the Cheshire Cat, and it too dissipated into a soft glow, faded into the night. ''Ob dear,\ Alice whispered. She decided to stay in the forest until morning, for it was no.)V too dark to find one's way· in the woods. With a pad of .moss for a pillow, she soon feU into a deep, dreamless sleep. r·~-, Placement N;ote,s I m st~dents inte~es.ted in . teaching Int-ernational and . Can(ldian m Wlt~ n~ pnor e.xpertenc~ ~r Division is interested in 1 .ml cert~ficatton. More mformatlo~ ts considering Foreign National ?.1 . · ml~:~ available at the Placement Offtce. stu._ dents f.ro_m 8 . pecific c. ountries ~ . :~· Economic and Computer for employment opportunities in ·L · their home countries. Students Science Majors • • ·:~ ·:'· •• : :(.:.. . :.eo: ~· ~ must be c0mpletin~ a B.S. or ·. . .-.~,,~~~ The National Cash Register M.S. program 10 a U.S. THE TEACHER CORPS The Teacher Cor.ps, eastablished by Congress in 1965, is a nationwide effort to provide to children from low-income families better educational opportunities and to improve the quality of · teacher education programs for both inexperienced teacher-interns and certified teachers. Te(lcher Corps offers school districts in low-income areas, their communities, and nearby universities the chance to work together, plan, and operate innovative two-year programs for better training and utilization of teachers. The purpose of the Teacher Corps is: 1 to strengthen· the educational opportunities available to children in areas having concentrations of low- income families, 2 to encourage colleges and universities to broaden their programs of teacher preparation and .3 to encourage institutions of higher education and local educational agencies to improve programs .of training and retraining for teachers and teacher aides. The leacher Corps is currently accepting applications from all interested people. \fhis is an excellent opportunity for those Corporation (NCR),. Albany~ University and s.eeking New York, win be recruiting on employment · in their home Thursday, March 10, 1977 for country. Economi<; and Computer Science majors, also for Economic majors with minors in English, History, and Philosophy, etc. for openiqgs in Marketing. Students must ~ign~up for an interview in the Placement Office as soon as possible. Foreign Students The General Electric. Opportunities in engineering manufacturing; technical marketing, and financial management are available in Brazil, Venezuela, Columbia, Argentina, Saudi Arabia, Bahrain, Qatar, United Arab Emirates, Oman, and Yemen. Campus Calendar Soon it will be possible for you as a Union student to do tw<;J seemingly impossible feats easily: l.)find out exactly What there is to do on campus at any given time. 2.) Publicize an event you are sponsoring (without having to post flyers on every bathroom door). Beginning Monday Feb. 21 a new weekly calendar will be compiled in the student activities office. This calendar Will be available every luesday and w.ill also be the basis .. for the Union's Week and Concordy calendars. We will try to ntake this as accurate and complete as·;possible (including weekly meetings, parties, etc ... hopefully everything which is happening on campus). This .high ideal can really only succeed if everyone participates. Anyone wishing· to .p~hlicize an event should come to the student activities office first. There will be forms available to make things easy. The deadline is every Monday at 9:00 am. A slot has been cut in the door so you can hand in information even when the oft:ice is closed. .- Finally,- it is important that everyone use this calendar. You might be surprised but there really is more to ljnion than JU~I studying. Ha1 Friday, . day of th Chinese l\ theory tb celebratior than on~, students l Fdday to Year .of th in the Ye~ \Actual much ed explains one of th us on can in China' the rest somethin! end. Frid: flurry. of: the first 1 Prof. · · visited .t}· China Ja discuss s: will pro\ Prof. 'H1 who will China fr participa calligrllp Chinese· And whi S\trauss displays across ·tt a. glimp China's 81 ~y M Pres. the air, afternoc clarity Force c intervie· Sports Dick s, Beele asking compri: what formati respom membe state c ex peri increas and tl1 rapid c Pres a ques1 the wll deal \II the fin Board will .from ' and t their 4 Aft~ and d rep on each recor: imple

do the no was job was it too the a eep, in in ents or ing ica I cia I in pus). only an ill be has can that You there jU!>t Happy New Year Friday, February 18· is the last day of the 7672nd year of the Chinese l-unar Calendar. On the theory that two New Year's celebrations are always better than on~. a group of Union students and faculty plan this Friday to bid good-bye' to the Year of the Dragon, and welcome in the Year of tl1e Snake. · art. \The credit for putting all this CONCORDIEN'SIS. Feb. 16, 1977 3 ••Actually, the purpose is as much -educational ·as. festive,\ explains Prof. Bruce Reynolds, one of the organizers. \Those of us on campus who ate interested in China view this as a chance for the rest of Union to learn somethingabout China.\ To that end, Frida;(evc;min& will witness. a flurry. of activities .and displays on ·the first floor of Carnegie Halt together should really .go to the students,\ said Prof. Susan Blader. Pn,>f. Blader, the newest addition to Union's group of Asianists, teaches· courses in Chinese language .and literature. She 'has organized the energies of Union's Chinese language students, while the Union Chinese Students' Association has rallied behind its Ptesident, Ken Leung. ''A lot of energy and talent has gone into preparing for Friday night,'' she noted. \l hope no one misses it.\ . Students of 4th floor W(?st .defending their turf Prot'. Don Thurston, .. who · visited -the People's Republic of China ~a.st. year; will sboW and discuss slides from his trip. This will provi~e: a sharp co.ntrast to Prof. Harold How<::s (SUNY A), who wiil relate. his experiences in China frpm I-948\.-to 1951. Other paFticipa:ilts will demonstrate calligraphy, Chinese chess, and Chine.se · coeking {with samples!). A:nd while all this is-going. on itt Strauss Lounge, posters · and displays in Mrs. Marra's office across ·the hall will give spectators' a glimpse of various aspects of. China's long history, music and Vandal· Eludes Security Monday Night 0 n M o nd a y night a t approximately 1:30 a.m., Security officials faced one o(their most embarrassing mements this year. A car vandal was allowed to escap.e from West parking lot while Security otlicials looked oh. Students of fourth floor West witnessed a long haired, bearded youth smashing the window of a cat in West parking lot. The vandal was using what appeared to be a shoveL The student entered the car and sat behind the .front wheel. Members ·of the fourth floor -raced downstairs. Murray Levison pulled the vandal from the car (which belonged to a resident of the floor) and held him. Other members· of the f1oor surrounded the pair as two Security guards came on to t_he scene. LeVison and other students maintained that the vandal was drunk, smelling of liquor. What happened next is unclear. The students, upon seeing Security, released the culprit. The vandal then mumbled, \lfs my car, I have the registration.\ and staggered toweard a jeep parked near the Vandalised vehicle. Security made no effort to restrain the vandal as he climbed into the jeep, backed out quickly and left the scene of the incident. At this point much confusion arose as to why Security hadn't restrained the vandal and let him enter his automobile, damn good job in apprehending a dorm intruder earlier this term. Th.is, however, offers little consolation to the owner of the vandalised vehicle.\ FINAL NOTICE! All students applying for financial aid - the necessary forms are available in the Student Aid Office, Old Gym Hall. The deadline for filing is March 1st. Bonner Aired on WMHT A couple of acrimonious exchanges between a .. student and a Security officer e'nsued, but these were quelled when the Schenectady Police Department a_nived on the scene. Ch,ances seemed slim, however,. that the guilty individual would be apprehended. ATTENTION!!! Elections for the two positions of Editor-In-Chief will take place tomorrow, Thursday the 17th, at 8 p.m. in the Concordy office on the 3rd !1oor Carnegie. Candidates for the two positions are Todd Miller, Fern Flomenhaft, and Danny Wojnilower. At 8 p.m. the three candidates will give oral presentations of their statements of policy and then the vote will be taken and tabulated. Anyone who has worked for Concordy at all during the past year is eligible and obligated to vote, so please ~y MATTH\EW LUBART Pres. Thomas Benner took to the airwaves this past Sunday afternoon to further explain and clarity the report of the Task Force on. Athletics .. Bonn(!r was interviewed on W MHl-TV's. SpoFts Closeup by sportscaster Dick Beeler. also explained that the college has been actively searching for a permanent Athletic Director for \ the past three weeks, but that the selection will not be made until . the college has decided the direction· in which its athletic program will go. Upon futther questioning, Pres. Bonner responded that he saw no . need for a full-time Sports Information Director even should the Hockey team succeed in its. attempts to rise to Division I. This opinion wa.s diametrically opposed to R PI's Sports Informati.on Director Jim, Grenich who has stated that every ·Division I ECAC Hockey Team has and needs a full-time S.I.D . The program concluded with Pres. Bonner stating that no decisions have been made and that full, open discussion of the problems are still to come. Tuesday afternoon, Jim Tremlett, head RA in West, Matt Briel, RA on fourth 11oor West, and Murray Levison, the student who pulled the vandal from the car, met with Chief of Security, Clift Wood, to explain the incident. Wood expressed ignorance of the way Security handled the alTair and promised to follow up in any way he could. Much bitterness is harbored on the fourth f1oor of West, but, as· Brief said,· \They (Security) messed this up, but they did a be here on time. Beeler opened the interview by asking Bonner what perso·nnel comprised the Task Force and what events necessitated its formation at this time. ln response, Bonner listed the members of the Task force and stated ·that Union had experien~ed . ·1! \tremendous increase· in· interest in athletics\ and that . tl;tere was a .. sense of rapid change on campus.\ Pres. Bonne:r then responded to a question from Beeler concerning the way in which the college will deal with the report saying that, the final decision. resides with the Board of Trustees, bUt that they will receive recommendations .frorn the Faculty College Senate, and the Alumni before making their decision. Wherl questioned about the possibility of Union leaving NESCAC, Bonner restated his intention of abiding by the Campus decision but also reiter~ted that he personally disagrees with. the Task Force recommendation on this issue. Bonner. sees NESCAC as \primarily an athletic control type of conference.\ He further stated that Union subscribes very much to NESCAC philosophy ·Of no \no-need scholarships .... and maintaining admissions standards.\ His disagreement with the Task Force Report stems from the feelil\g that the level of play should be determined by the success of each individual team as long as the .NESCAC principles are- adhered to. Bonner sees the· possibility of change in NESCAC as \highly unlikely\ and feels that there will be substantial financial gains for the College shoud the Hockey team go Division 1. Library SuggestiOns Sought After dealing with the historic arid developmental aspects of the report, Bonner described how each of the non-contro-wersial recommendations would be implemented by the college. He The Library Committee 1s requesting student input and suggestions as to how the Committee's allocation should be spent in the coming year. If you have ever complained about the size of the periodical or book collections, the level of noise or the frequ~ncy of dogs in the library, the comfort of the place or whatever else, this is your chance to express your views. Whatever complaints, suggestions, or creative Schaeffer Library- Have you got any ideas? . , t . . . . . . ( • ' J , ~ ,/ J ,· .,, .:. ' .. ol ' • ,.; • ot • • ,o > '• o J , • ~ >..- o --. ' '' innovations you can think of, can help to improve the library for your use. Please take the time to write them down and deposit them in the box which has been placed in .the lobby of the librarv (near the card catalogues) for this purpose. So far this year, the Library Committee has been unal>le to function at its normal rate due to the interim absence of a permanent head Librarian. The 1 . D UNION COLLE.GE PUB . R£5T AURANT lJ ~ T1!) c :)OifNI;.CTADY, NY !1.368 1-iOLLOW major policy decisions, which would normally be handled by the committee, have been held off until a new Librarian (as the office is officially titled) assumes office. However, an agenda of student requests will be drawn up now and presented to our ·new Librarian when the office is filled. Please take this opportunity to voice your opmwns and suggestions to help improve your library. -- What's Cook in' THURSOAY Italian Buffet IS BACie t t t .t ·~ ' ' FRIDAY & SAT. t t Steak and Brew THIS WEEK'S SPECIAL Shrimp Scampi - 5.25 -- ••• t \, 1 .. ... \ • ..,.~ ...... -... \ . \' .. \ ....... \'->a. ,t «-'f: II ....... ,. ... ~ .... ~.,. 0$\' ~. R

. ,, Page 4 CONCORDlENSIS, Feb. 16, 1977 ---------~----~~----------------~~~~~~~--~--~------~--~~----------------~--- 1977 Winter Carnival at Union -.. Religious Richmond CARNIVAL STATS SNOW SCULPTURE OVERALL Davidson Sigma Chi Webster S.S. (Aesthetic Quality) Sigma Chi Webster Davidson S.S. (Creatit'ity/ Originality) Hickok Delta Chi Sigma Chi CHUG-A--LUG Fox Upchucks David & Lancers Fo:x,'s Fox CROSS-COUNTRY SKI RACE Bill Fay - Sigma Chi Ed Foote - Independent Jim Felix - Delta Phi Bob Lein - Phi Delta Theta OBSTACLE COURSE Jim Anderson - Fox Bob Driscoll - Faculty Mark Taube - TDChi Lou Tholman - Chi Psi TUG OF WAR Sigma Chi South Chi Psi CHEERING Sigma Chi West Delta Chi Fox South's take a giant foot fqrward. t '1- • ~ \ I j • , I J I f OVERALL FINISH. Davidson's Winter Wheels Webster's Match: Nott andKong 1 Sig Chi's goes Greek Barb Kaul skating obstacle course ( Af intro Aller Copl stage addr; infor be SYffii .and bern• ever au die they speal for hour delig enga each rem~ even to IX OJ obvi musi audi M'r. ques an<;>t WQiC chali that mod how tried an a .. , all !I we cern muc cam' dow Aarc next cont A ab01 Cop of foui: enjo to unb resp com his 1 eluc be: ll bec<J by t the· ~pee aero or c COl muc recr' oth<: do 1

CONCORDIENS).S, Feb. 16, 1977 Page 5 . CONCORDY Interview--:..-- Aaron Copland by Bruce Cohen After a brief, c;asual introduction by Professor Hugh Allen Wilson, composer Aaron Copland took his place on the stage of Memorial Chapel to address his a\ldience in an informal afternoon seminar. \To be a serious composer of syinphonic. music... •• he began, .and his face broke into a slightly bemused grin, \ ... how <loes one ever get such a strange idea'!\ The audience broke into laughter, and they were his. He proceeded to speak and respond to questions for nearly three-quarters of an hour and in the process revealed a delightful sense of humor and an engaging; fertile mind' that fielded each· question ptit to him with remarkable ease and fuluidity: even those i1;1tentionally pointed to confound him .. . A case in point: One student in the audience. obviously eager to display his musical knowledge before an audience and 'the Master,' asked M'r, Copland a very lengthy q i..J.estion full of opus references to anQthet modern composer's wo:vk, w~ich in ·sumtna~ion was ~ challenge to Copland's statement that one can · learn to enjoy modern atonal music if one learns how to listen, The questioner tried to bend the statement into an absolute:, Copland~s reply - \Why no, rm not s~,Lying that all modem music 9an be enjoyed: we modern composers are certainly as capable of writing as much bad music as anyone who came before us!\ The student sat down, the audience laughed, and Aaron Coplaml went on to his next questioner, utterly in control. After the seminar, I spent about half an hourmore with Mr. Copland in a more private session of conversation. One-on-one I found him a very warm and enjoyable individual: his :answers to my questions were all unhurried, very genuine responses. He seemed earnestly concerned that 1 be satisfied with his answers, always taking time to elucidate whatever he felt might be unclear. As the time went by I becarne more and rtlQre impressed by the. lack of self-importance in the· nmn: always aware of his ~pe~ialnes$, yet never coming across ·in any way as overbearing or complacent. CONCORDY: Mr. Copland, so much of what you do provides recreation and entertainment for others: What does Aaron Copland do to unwind. COPLAND: I conduct! At my age conducting is like a workout in a gym: I leave the stage soaked lind exhl;lusted: .it's great exercise. To simply relax, 1 take long wallcs; see my friends. CON CORDY;. You've conducted a great deal of your own music: what is that experience to you? COfiLAND: It is the greatest pleasure I know, The one regret I have is that I did not begin to do it earlier in my life. Thet:e is no feeling like it, and I would not exchange that satisfaction for the world. · CONCORD¥: How do you go about . conducting your own music? Do you play around with it, ·or do you try to adhere strictly to how you heard it in your own mind? COPLAND: Well. composers tend to become set in their ways: 1 do keep it pretty tnuch the same, although every now ~.tnd then I hear someone else's version of a piece of mine and I say, .. Now why didn 1 t 1 think of that?\ CONCORD\': Where is home for you now? . COPLAND: I live about one house up the Hudson River from New York City. CONCORDY: Y~;m and George Gershwin grew up musically, so to speak, at about the same time. Did yo.u know the man,, and if so, what do you remember of the man? COPLAND: He was very much involved in the jazz and popular music, whereas I was in the concert stage: Gershwin and l lived in two different worlds really, although l did visit with him at his New York studio. CONCORD¥: How long did it take before you were actually earning your living as a ·Ctillttposer?· · · . , · .: : \ < ., :• COPLAND: You mean by the income of my compositions alone? CONCORDY: Yes. COPLAND: (laughing loudly) Long! It involves a great deal of work, not just turning out one or two pieces a year: but many, many pieces until one builds up a body of work;. Long! CONCOilDY: How do you feel about the direction of modern music in the atonal, as it is being explored by artists like Pierre Boulez? COPLAND: Well, you have to remember, I· went through a period of about ten or fifteen years when my harmonies were thought of as dissonant and unusual (to apply some of the milder adjectives), so sympathize with those whe are exploring what others may now consider to be bizarre. Because it is .new, modern . music feels uncomfortable to the ear trained in the music of the 19tb century, but who wants to explore what has already been done'? Only one thing is certain about music: it is always changing, and the music of any tomorrow will not sound. like the music of any given yesterday. When I was younger, we never would have dreamed that electronics could be used in music; yet look what has happened! I have written a book on the . subject .of how to listen to music,. both new and old, and I highly recommend it to you. It is called, What to Listen for in Music. I read recently where it has. been translated into French - I got a charge out of.that! At long last. I thought, we are telling them something about music. Really, listeners have to realize that music is ahvyas changing, and that they must listen, really listen to a piece, not just once but many times, ~~til they grasp it in. part and beg•n to understand 1t. It cannot come about if the music is put on merely as the backdrop of pleasant noise for some other activity. Those who truly know how to iisten to music are the lucky ones, and we should all try to get in on their luckiness. CONCORDY: Who are some of your favorite composers? COPLAND: Stravinsky, Prokoviev, Bartok, and a friend of mine who died recently, Benjamin Britten. CONCORDY: What is your favorite. from among your own compositions? COPLAND: (smiling broadly) Well, that's a very sensitive question! There are many pieces I have very tender feelings for, but asking that question is like asking il mother which is her favorite chilO:: she may know, but she won't tell. CONCORhY: Why do you think there are so few female composers? COPLAND: That is one of the mysteries of the universe to me. There are many fabulous female interpreters of music around - when I was in Paris I studied with a woman (Nadia Boulanger) who helped me tremendously. The only guess I could make would be this: music is a very ;amorphous thing, To build a piece ·of original music out of nothin'g requites a severe mastery of forrq and the imposition of one's will over that bodiless nothing to make it into something. I can only guess that possibly women have not found yet how to master that .. amorphous: somethmg tt takes to compose successfully. Still, that's only a guess. It's no less a mystery. CONCORDY: Composers tend to become noted for different things; Beethoven for revolutionizing orchestral writing, Chopin, for ''pracically reinventing the piano\ (to .use ·George Crumb's phrase) and more recently Gershwin, for ''making a lady out of Jazz\ and personalizing American urban rhythms. If it Is possible to say, what is it that Aaron Copland Is doing? COPLAND: (laughing lightly) I haven't any idea! You must admit that there are no guarantees in the arts: something that is . popular now may be forgotten tomorrow - and we American composers are such latecomers to the musical fea~t anyway! There is a certain filament of fate involved, that you do whatever you are fated to do. I have done what I have done, and one canoniyhope tojointhissmall voice to the symphony of the past. (He stopped and shrugged his shoulders, brea~ing into that warm smile again. I studied the face before me for a few moments, neither of us speaking .. It was an older face, but not dim by any means. Its features were lean and somewhat craggy, but it resembled nothing so much as the face of an old eagle. ln the middle of it there were two blue-grey eyes, and a shock of white hair partially covering his head. He smiled again, probably because he knew what 1 was thinking - he had won me over. I found myself wanting to know him much better. He stood and wrapped himself in a scarf, coat, and beat up old beret. Then turned again and held out his hand.) - .,,, .cu AGAIN AND HELD OUT HIS HAND.) CONCORDY: Thank you Mr. Copland. I can't tell you how much I've enjoyed this! COPLAND: Well, thank you, I have too. Then he turned and walked out the door and he was gone. 1 found myself mtsstng his company already. It is very rare when a 'living legend\ surpasses one's expectations of him. Aaron Copland is a rare man.

Pa1le6 culture CONCORDIE!VSIS, Feb. 16, 1977 -- . . . . . . ,. arto '12th Night' Tix on Sale All the strange,· wonderful and Do you like women dressing up funny .things th~t you've heard as men? You will love Twelfth about the Mountebanks' Night! production of William Do you love. expert Shake$peare's comedy Twelfth swordplay? You will love Twelfth Night or What You Will is true Night! . and more so. And now the time We guarantee all this and has come for the box office to more! This promises to be the flmg open its doors and ofter best Shakespearian produ<;tion tickets to the masses. Yes, the we've done this year, and miles ·.· pasteboards are now on sale for beyo.nd Peer Gynt. This the only main stage production of production is extremely stylized this term. And what a production &nd is set in the 16th century in it will be! the mythical Mediterranean city Do you like drunkenness to of Hlyria. It is a society very much excess? You will love Twelfth like pre.:Christian Rome before it Night! fell. Everyone there has fallen into Do you like revelry and song? excess:. Orsino and Olivia have If it ali sounds a little like A Streetcar Named Oesire; yol)'re mistaken. this is .funny! Sexual innuendo flies in and out the door ~~:t the drop of a hat, and even the statues of the .naked women on the stage blush in embarrassl_llent. For the low, low price of 75 cents (o!le-tenth the cost of a Popeil Pocket Fisherrrtan) a Union Student can have the time of his life (or anyone else's. if th~t turns you on). The box office is open every weekday from l-5 p.m~ Photographer Richards lectures in S.S. 016. You will love Twelfth Ni~ht! excessive love, but not for each other; Toby and Andrew are excessive drunks; Ma1volio has excessive love, but only for himself. Into this atmosphere walks Viola (or rather, swims, as she has just survived a shipwreck in which her brother drowns; or rather, she thinks he's drowned; he actually hasn't),__ You have been warned! This show plans to be bigger than Jimmy· Carter's last fireside chat. More exciting than a meeting of Quakers! Dirtier than Earl Butz (but not as offensive)!! Twelfth .NigJit will put you in stitches (Stitches, N.Y., a small town near Gloversville). Get your tickets soon! The show ()pt;fis next Friday, February 25 and runs through March S (ex:cept Monday and Tuesday~. Run, don't walk, to the Nott ·Memorial Theatre, Richards Reviewed Creative JY7 •• ·~ r~t1ng CREAT·IVE WRITINcG On Wednesday, Feb. 9, in SS 016, photographer Eugene Richards conducted a discussion along with a slide presentation of his work. Richards, who will be teaching Photography Ill this ~spring, has recently had an anthology of his material published, entitled Few Comforts and Surprises. Born in Dorchester, CONTEST \Dorchester's a disgusting place for older people who remember.\ OFFERS .(ASH AND Richards devoted a portion of BOOK PRIZES the program to his photographs Writers: You can win $100; of South Boston and impressions $50; or $25 in cash and book of the bussing, riots, and racism. prizes for best short story, \These riots affected our town, humorous essay, or other short making people inc~;dibly afraid pieces between 250 and · 1000 of each ot~er. . .And to word_!> - with free copy qf photographs, tmpress,ons and· winning · ·coL-LEGE fond and bitter mem~ries of the CONTEMPORARIES Magazine Arkansas Delta. Lookmg back at for all - if you enter the Glee Clubs to G-ive Concert Tomorrow Massachusetts, Richards talked about his root-seeking return after 10 years, only to find himself a stranger in his old town. \Not a hell of a lot of enjoyment was left in Dorchester..... maybe 10 years was too soon to return.\ The first portion of the program profiled Richards' immoralizing return to Dorchester; the photographs are mostly portraits, taken in the street, in individual homes and in bars. \Bars are the best places to photograph people,\ he says. A photograph of a woman who had been assaulted..and beaten, one of Jimmy, the neighborhood_ irig~t, and Ilene,. who secretly paints watercolors an&hides fuem so no one can see, add up to a dim vision of forgotten lives. A photo of Lilly reminded Richards of the ability of the camera to \give certain people !.ec_oj[ni~.o~ .. :. Commenting on one of an old man covering his eyes, he said old photograph~ of the Delta, Collegiate Cteative Writing by CAROL VENEZIA Richards was disturbed that the Contest whose deadline is MAY Double your listening pleasure an American F<?lk tune edited by photos distort the way .t~e people 5. For rules and official entry with an enjoyable evening of free E. Forbes, and ··~hen Johnny really were. And despamng at the form,. send .self-addressed, live entertainment presented by Comes Marching Home\ quality of ~ife_ ~n ~he ~elta_ as wen staan pe d en veto pe to: the ·tn:en!!s·and women's glee dubs · -,arta1lged'by'Fetu\itl1ektH.';\ •· as-tlie qu~lity of the. photographs, Intemational Pub!ic~ttions, 4747 · of ·Union· College. Relax· ··in .~ .. The 'n6h''souri(l df'teho'rs imd he said, \Nothing is new in these Fo'-lntain Ave., Dept. C-3, Los Memorial Chapel on Thursday, basses pervading the chapel will pictures. They will always be like Angeles, CA 90029. February 24th a~ 8:00 .P.~. to a be replaced by tile harmoniously this.\ performance whtch Will mclude interacting voices ofsopranos and Richards strives to capture the AT TENT I 0 N ALL' solo pieces by both glee cl?bs. altos as the women's . glee club inner personality of his. subjects CABARET GOERS_ THIS Such a wide range of selections under the direction of Robert and says that family alburp.s are NOTICE IS FOR YOUR will be offered t~at there will Christenson presents· a selection the most interesting photography. CONVENIENCE! TICKETS surely be someth1!lg _to plea~e of interesting .pieces. Starting off ·When asked about technique, he W lL L BE · 0 N SALE eveiJ:'one. The culmt_nahon o~ t?1s with the lively ''Seychelles Fishing called himself a lousy technician, THURSDAY MORNING IN e.vemng ?f song wtll be. a JOmt Song\ .a traditional selection adding that he would give STUPENT ACTIVITIES presentation by t~e co_mbmed glee atr11,nged by J. &tanley Sheppard, anything not to develop his ow·n FROM 11:30 TO, 12:30 A.M. clubs under the dttectlon of Hugh . the evening ·will\ proceed with pictures. Asked about influences, BESIDES THE EVENING Allen Wilson. . . \Deep River,\ a spiritual, his strongest ones were from SALES FROM 8:00 TO TO The men's ~lee clu? directed by \Cantate Domino\ (0 Sing unto photographer Robert Frank, who 9:30 P.M. ALL OTHER P~ofessor Wtlso~ w1H present a. the Lord), \Johnny has Gone For \freed me up,\ and from TICKETS WILL BE ON dtverse selectiOn of songs A Soldier\ an American photographer Eugene Smith SALE AT TilE DOOR IF includi?g \I'ntermedio di Folksong, \S:ek Sweet Content\ whose emotionalism carried him ANY ARE LEFT. PLEASE Solf~nan,\ (The_·~at~hsell~rs), ~y by Jon Wilbye and end with through life. TAKE NOTE OF THIS SO Adnano Banchten, Aprtl IS m \Belle of the Ball\ by Leroy YOU CAN A VOID LINES . My Mistress' Face'~- ~nd \~hoot Anderson. . American College Poets Anthoiogy International Publications is Sponsoring A NATIONAL COLLEGE POETRY CONTEST - Spring Concourse 1977 - open to. aU coUege and university students desiring to have their poetry anthologized. CASH PRIZES wiD go to the top five poems: 1st Place- $100. 2nd Place ~ $50. 3rd Place - $25. 4th and 5th Place - $10. A W AR.DS of free printing for ALL accepted manuscripts in ow popular, handsomely bound and copyrighted antllology, AMERICAN COLLEGIATE POETS. DEADLINE: MARCH 31st CONTEST RULES AND RESTRICDONS: 1. Any ltudent is ellJible to submit his verse. . l. AU eatria m111t be orizinal and unpublished. 3. AU entries must be typed, .double-spaced, on one side of the page only. Each poem m..- be oa a aeparate sheet and must bear, in the upper left-hand c~rner, the NAME and ADDRESS of the student as well as the COLLIJ;GE atte11ded. (Full name and addreu on envelope. also!) 4. There are no restrictions on form or theme. Le!J,Jth .of .J!QQJIS up to fourteen IJnei, Eadl poem must have a separate title. (Avoid \Untitled\!) Small black and. · white Wuitrations welcome. 5. The Jud&es' dec:ishln will be flml. · 6. Eatraut. sbould .keep a copy ol all entries as they cannot be returned. Prize wimlerl and all authori awarded free publication will be notified immediately after dfadlille. I.P. will retain fint publication ri&hts for accepted poems. 1. There b au initial one dollar rqistratlon fee for the first entry and a fee of IIRJ «DII for each additional· poem. It iS requested to submit no more than ten poem~ per entrant. Forel&n tanaua1e poems welcome. 1. All entries mlllt be postmarked not later .than the ibove deadline and fees be paid, cub, cbecll: IK' money order to: INTERNATIONAL PUBLICATIONS 4747 Fountain Ave. (Dept. ACP) Los Aill!leles, Ca. 90029 AND UNNECESSA,lt Y Fa~se Love, .1 Care Not\ by However, the evening will have WAITING. Thomas. Morley, \The E-RI-E\ only just begun. To an orchestral PEPPER ABRUPTLY Upon th~ sun-warmed asphalt the Mcintyre's cat, Pepper, abruptly ceased his romping to li~ down smashed and torn, with two bright yellow lines for accent; -All up and down the street children ran, skipped ... and sent bubbles of young laughter sailing on a warm and lusty noon· wind; Yet small black shadows squatted at their tiny heels. Burnt rainbow branches waved their bittersweet scarlet banners with abandon, Yet the air smelled of dying leaves. Birds sang, neighbors greeted, sun shone, Pepper. · Linda Decker · , \ · · · · · · · accompaniment the combined glee clubs will present the ••Missa Brevis\ in D major, KV' 194 by W.F. Mozart. The soloists will be our own Pam Howell. soprano; Jackie Mazza, alto; Bob Mannarino, . ten()r; and John Knudsen, bass. · As this full evening of tentertainment is the only concert to be given by the glee clubs on the Union College campus this teTm, it is d.efinitely a performance not to be missed. · C.OME., 'BROWSEf EN roY- A ' s· by Co' \aske tho us Trek~ Nimo in H has,! scien1 often writi1 one the • Spoc ·''ln seriel Ni persi cancj garn' were the \and beca mas! have that sho~ man for pos1 blue boo: to I' of mor the! • •co con: yeal thre poo de~i ful[. afi wri1 W01 (as scri tasl S~< ace pr<l C( Sr In fit hll sil m 1~ gl . bl tt h• T .II tl e s d 11 ..

il n ' is by ... off a by l be ohn of on this a CONCORDIENSJS, Feb. 16, 1977 . . . ' Spock Vulcanizes Crowd by DA V.ID MOSKOWITZ Commenting that he's been years of the show's three year \asked the same questions over a television run: \'the third year we thousand times,\ actor, Star changed prt:Jducets and there was Trek's Mr. S.pock, Leonard a &lip in the quality of the shows.\ Nimoy, .faced the press yesterday Nimoy saw hi!l Star Trek in Hale House Lounge. Nimoy ·experience as little more than has, since his stint on the popular another acting job and answered science fiction series, appeared most questions about the reasons often on television as well as for the show's success and the writing tWo bool<s of poetry and place of science fiction on one of personal anecdotes ftom television by saying ~·~· am an the \Star Trek .. era, .. l am not actor.... talk to .the sociologists Spock.\ He currently hosts the and so((ial psychologists if you ' 1 ln Search Of,\ an occultist want to know the reasons why ... series. they just gave me a script and I Nimoy compared the did my job.\ He feels that the persistence of interest in the prognim, unlike more technical cancelled series to the interest works lik¢ the film \2001 garnered by the Beatles. \They emphasize human characters and were asked the same questions all interactions. ..Television is a the time too,\ lie commented, family !!l!!4iurn,\ he said, adding \and all the details of their lives that it's primary function is to became fascinating to the entertain. in character 12-14 hours a day, 5 days a week, l found myself functioning as Spock even on the weekend.\ . _ . -· . _ . His book and poetry deal with the .problems of living with the stigma of being continually identified as Spock. \lam relaxed about it now,\ he says, adding that without the tole his acting career would never have progressed beyond playing \murderers on 'Koja:k' .\ Nimoy says he was perpetually bombarded with identical questions. \They're always asking me 'who will be in the movie', or 'how did you beam aboard' or even 'what did you see when you looked into that viewer on the bridge.\ Asked what. he actually did see when he looked .into that viewer on the bridge, Nimoy simply smiled, and slyly raised his eyebrow. Page 7 culture masses.\ WhileStar Trek may not Nimoy criticized current violent have had the cultural implications television programs w.hich depict that Nimoy ascribes to it. the bloody deaths so . graphically: show still survives in the minds of \Before a kid js eighteen he sees many 'trekkies' who 'have fought 18,000 deaths on television ... it for its return. Star Trek books, makes life seem cheap,\ he posters, puzzles, manuels, commented. Star Trek had no hlueprints, and concordances line bloody de11ths depicted: an evil- bookstore shelves and according doer was either \stunned\ by a to Nimoy \l don't know if its any phaser or had his atoms scattered of your business\ how rnuch through the universe: \exposure mon~y_ be collects from !!ale of to killing has a negative effect,\ these products. Star Trek he added. .. Mr. Spock\ bet&.ms in to Union College. .. conventions'' have had Science fiction is the actor's considerable success in recent favotite field, although he has years (\I've only been to the tackled parts like McMurphy in a three,\ says Nimoy \most of them theatrical production of . \One poorly · run\} and have kindled Flew Over The Cuckoo's Nest\ de!)ires for the production of a and Malvolio in \Twelfth .Night..\ full-length Star Trek movie. Such Science Fiction, he. says, provides a frl~ hasnot been contracted or .a canvas for «;xploring political, written yet, and Nimoy says he .. social;-. and enviro.nmental would only accept a starring role problems outside the context of (as Mr. Spock) in it if ''Ail the our own time. \The gap between script writers develop a leVel of fiction and fact, though, is , tclste\ fitting with past programs. closing.\ he said. S~ch high quality programs were For his lecture, Nimoy said he accqrc:ling to Nimoy, only hoped to tallc' about himself as produced during the first two well as Mr. Spo_clc, ''When I was Jazz Band to Rock Fri. Po you want to listen to excellent LIVE Jazz at Union College? lf so come to Memorial Chapel on Friday, February 18, 1977 . Running the show will be a personality that is only matched in. modesty by Buddy· Rich and warmth by Oenghis Kahn, Paul Stefek. Paul has put together a band (that I am .sure you all heard last term) with a very limited . -~pply of money, sheet music but not a limited supply of talent. When was the last time that you listened to a jazz record or jazz on WRUC'! Not Benson's newest hit single that happened to make it on to the pop chartS ~ but ratlter to some Coltrane or some Ellington? Have you eve:r really given jazz, America's onl~ indigenous art form, a £air chance?. Friday night offers }'OE an opportunity to see jaz:z performed in the genre for whicll it was intended - the liv--e concert. It is not often that ~ Schenectady-area resident is abl~ to sit in on some live jazz. If yoll never have seen a big I:Jan..O perform you owe it to yourself to show up on Friday. Featured this night will be a broad array of tunes from tne horns of Stefek's pseud.o intellectual virtuosos. Mter i1s debut fall term to an enthus~stic but reasonably small audience, the Jazz Ensemble has worked incredibly hard to reproduce such sounds as the contemporary funk of Maynard Ferguson's \Chameleoq.\, . the hard driving jazz-rock of \Mannix\ and \Mod Squad\ to the mellow vibes of Dorsey's \Moonlight Seranade\ and the Beatle's \Here There and Everywhere.\ Add to this tunes by Chicago and the result is an incredible evening of music. [f this isn't enough to coax everyone away from the security of the Pub and the dirtiness of the S~ellar, just think of two hours of LIVE FREE JAZZ and we're sure you can get into it. This Week's Flicks Previewed in Short So get down with your bad self and boogie on· down to the Chapel Friday night at 9:00- for one of the best nights of the term. It's the Union Jazz Ensemble. Be there! THO RSDAY: \Zero for the term). \Smiles\ is the story ot Conduct\ by Jean Vigo and \The · an .aging lawyer who takes for his Smiles of A Summer Night\ by second wife an eighteen year old Ingmar Bergman. Two of the girl in the hopes of regaining· h~s finest sophisticated cQmedies that lost youth. The only problem IS have ever been made in Europe that the girl is a virgin, and wants sinee the invention of the sound to remain that way for a long film. ..Zero for Conduct\ is a time, Two classic comedies, 19JO~s French movie about a starting at '8:00 p.m. group of boys in an all male · boarding school and the hell that they raise with their teachers and how they act among themselves. The film contains the first slow .motion sequence: a pillow· fight in the dorm with feathers flying everywhere: ••Smiles of A Summer Night\ is one of the few comedies by the noted Swedish director, usually known for his heavy psychodramas (his ••Personna;' will be shown later In SATBRDAY AND SUNDAY: .. taxi Driver\ by Martin Scorcese. This is a true nightmare film, centering around a psycopathic insomniac· (Robert DeNiro ), the woman he loves (Cybill Shepherd) and the 14 year old hooker he's trying to save (Jody Foster). We are given a look into the twisted mind of this man and end up understanding what makes him tick. DeNiro ATTENTION SENIORS SENIOR SAIL June 9, 1977 (Thurs. eve.) Tickets for the senior sail booze cruise on Lake George are now available at the Student Activities Office Each $10.00 ticket includes: Li~e entertainment by \Prime Time\ Cocktails - 4 per ticket holder .Food- catered by Maurice's ·One place reserved aboard the \Ticonderoga'' Creative, semi-formal attire required Only a limited number of tickets are available. Buy yours this . week! For more information see Mrs. Marra or Eli Portnoy SENIORS: This is going to be the last fling of your college career. don't miss it! . . ·.t;r)· ·>> :} :·::· :.:· ','. '· ·,, •,•.i .. ' \ ' \ . gives an amazing performance that earned him an aeademy award nomination. He is matched by Jody Foster, also nominated in the category of best supporting actress. The ending is not for those who are upset by the sight of fingers being hlown off by a revolver. A truly frightening film. TUESDAY: \On The Waterfront\ by Elia ~azan. One of the few films to which the word \classic\ can accurately be applied, It is. the .storv of trouble Fri's Coffeeh··ouse in the dockworkers' union am.d how organized crime runs the docks. More importantly, it is the story of the one worker wi1h a con~ience, an ex-fighter who had his chance in the ring b~! took a dive, who \pigeons\ o:ntlle corruption. An all-star cast includes Marlon Brando, RCld Steiger, Lee J. Cobb, Karl Malden and Eva Marie Saimt. This is one of the major wor:ks of the 1950's; an important hu~n document and well worth se<:i~f' ATTENTION Applications for the position of dormitory resident advisor will be available Monday, Feb. 21 in the housing office. Applications must be returned · to the housing office no later than Wednesday, March 2. If you will be abroad next tertn and wish to apply, contact Suzanne Dowling at the housing office as soon as possible. .. Three Days Ride will be appearing at the Union College Coffeehouse this Friday. Formerly known ~s SalVo and McGlaughlin, the group has added a new member to embellish their fine sound. The group consists of guitars and banjo, topped off by some magnificent harmonies. They perform contemporary folk-rock music, and . many of their songs are original. ·I helr sound has been likened to that of toggins and Me$Sina. TRf.S WEEK! The show will be kicked off by a set performed by Joe Morales, who is a student here. The admtss1on will be 75e at the door of .the old chapel where the Coffeehouse is located. Showtime is 8:30 p.m. PETE SEARS & BECKY WHITE Needed desperately! A.ets; wd talent for Cabaret: Musical or Non-Musical •. Jf ·II.terested call Sue Porten, 6702. TUESDAY ~I<lHT- GAME NIGHT INTELLECTUAL CABARET MONDAY, FEBRU..AaY 21, ''The Perils of Positive Action: Can Union Stmdents Change Union?'' There will be a student panel\\ and refreshments will be sened • Sponsored jointly by lndellectual Cabaret and the Positive Action Group.

EDITORIALS Honors The:_ prospect of, initiating :at_l honors program at Union revives our hope that not everyone at the College has abandoned the concept of intellectualism. Initiation of an enriched curriculum would .promise to spark increased academic interest and activity on ~mpus 7 The benefits of an honors curriculum, while <tirecfly affecting the students and faculty involved, will spread thrcn~ghout the College. The concommittant excitement will make Union a more dynamic, stimulating arena of educai1on. Implicit within sucli a program are almost infinite opfortunities to cultivate positive movement on Campus. as well as an improved (and deserved) academic reputation. Presently, Union fails to offer anything near the qualitative challenge that its academically gifted students. deserve. Far too many .of the College's best students transfer. Those that retnain tend to suffer from either frustration or depression. · · · Ostensibly, Union remains committed to realizing the highest academic standards. In practice, however, the College has o.)ot lived up to the challenge, An honors program would offer reassurance that Union will still stri:ve to move ahead in educa.tional endeavors. Senate the All-College Senate met last week to debate the findings of the Athletic Task Force Report. Fortunately, to the credit of the Senate, debate was conducted on a peaceful, intelligent level, rather than the acrimonious, often irrational encounters that have chamcterized many meetings on athletics held in the past several months. Debate ensued over a mumber of critical issues and was conducted without rancor. The effects of leaving NESCAC, possible scheduling difficulties, public relation benefits, increased alumni support, small college ethics, and dangerous pressures of Division I on Admissions and Financial Aid were all brought' into the debate without any explosions of temper. Most importantly, we feel, many people present, Senators and non-Senators, spoke of Union's educational philosophy as an institution. Concordy has already written a detailed account of why we feel that staying in NESCAC and riot going Division I are the only suitable choi~es for Union. We will again present an in-depth' argument in an editorial before the next Senate meeting. We hope that after the next meeting of the Senate. the'bitterness of the issue will finally dissolve regardless of the outcome. Let's remember that we are all members of the Union community and that if we didn't have a common purpose and concern for the College, the athletic issue would not have us at each other's throats. . . At any rate, we -hope Senators will make their decisions based on a rational deliberation of Union's direction as a small college and the way it ought to conduct itself ethically, whether it's in the range of athletics, tenure, or whatever. All students interested, as well, ought to read the Task Force Report. While we feel it lacks enough ha.rd. data, it does a.n excellent job of cataloguing assumptwns and opm10ns of both stdes of the athletic controversy. Finally, when all passes, we again urge the College to move on with pressing educational matters. A new General Education proposal, the Internal Educational Foundation and a \Steinmetz Curriculum\ are the sorts of educational innovations that can make Union\ ... the most exciting and attractive small college m the nation\ to quote a man with whom we rarely agree. ~...~n~'.<n ccH.;~ Editors-in-<;htef ........................ . ........ howie lax, 111ike ~otoildi .... andy rntt.Lhell matt hnef News edit or .. Features editors...... . .............. miriam david. andrc;l.Jerttlman Culture editors . . .. .fern fl<}menhilft joe millell Sports editors... . . .................... danny WoJndower, debbie pole ito Copy editor. .............................. ,.............. . ............... todd mtllcr Busiiles~ managers... . . .. barbara 'tern, marla lux. harm halpert Classifieds editor............... . ...................... martha rubenstein Subsdtptions editor........ . ...... ...... ... . ..... harm halpert Layout editors.... joe cappucto, nancy murphy Photography edit on... . .... steve grill,jm\ flescher Photo Staff. ............... . .......... barr:v dtbernardo,.Jelf formari mry feuerman. JOe lllu~r Art edttor.. . le;ter wets; Poetry editor... . .... .. .. .. ... . .... dclanne· sta&eman Staff th1s issue..... . ......... brad kessler. · kathy greco karen lee ann markowllz, a lese rubmqjll sharon cannizz.aro matt luDan cindy vanina linda straube, cynthia aranon. seth roslyn, patti mor11n tra goodman Calendar ... , ................................................ . ......... ru;h bermker CONCOROIENSIS Is published every Wednesday by lh~ stud~nt body of Union Collece, Old Gym Hill, Schenectady, New \;ork; to wbkh P01tal Forms 3~79 are dirKted. Publications Office: t·he Jewish Wortd Publicatiom, 416 Smith St., Schenectad), ~.\. IBOS CJ70-548.J), Entered in lhr Schem~ctady Post Office ai ~econd (: laS.• Malter. Subicription Rate 35 cents JMr clip). SIO. a )ear d~lhered anp•here ln tiW t:nited Sutrs. CONCORDIENSIS, Feb. 16, 1977 .. On the Rig,ht Path by MATT BRIEF \Union College currently offers, nothing for our brightest, most able students when· Qonsidered as a group.\ This is a quote from a report by Political Science Professor Byron· Nichol's Mellon Grant project entitled a Proposal .to Create an HonQts Program at Union College: The Steinmetz Curriculum. The report contains an assessment of Union's educational opportunities for its brightest students. estimated by Nichols through various. measures, SAT's, cum ind<:x, etc., to be 150-200 students. It presents a. series of proposals. that will affect as broad a segment of the student body as possible and' offer new intellectual challenges in 'specially designed courses within each department. Of course, Honors · programs are not unheard of in colleges. The report points out that colleges from Occidental in California to Bowdoin in Maine offer their own \Steinmetz Curriculum.\ A program such as P.rof. Nichols• pr-oposes (aU R.A.'s have been given copies), however, would be Union's first chance to offer more . for its most able students. The program offers many residual benefits, recruitment benefits in Admissions, and a todl for attracting Foundation support. Howevet; the proposal marks an ~ttitude botn healthy, vital, and too long gone from Union College. · To look at some of Union's major developments in the past few years: the Pu'b, Achilles Rink, the 6 yr. Med Program, they were socially beneficial, and/ or had external benefits. The \Steinmetz . Curriculum•• is a real attel1lpt to enhance Union's internal intellectual and educational atmosphere. Many will gripe that the report · progra10· failure Thursday .evening to take their most basic Englitb course .._ Englis.h · l 00, English Com;positiGr.. Sincerell, Robert Silet&J f73) panders to an intellectual elite. Intellectuals are not especially prized in contemporary society and cynics might argue that in this, Uniorir an accurate reflection of the \real world.\ If you read the proposal, you'll discover the vast majority of students will be eligible and, besides, ifcolleges.do not strive for the utmost in intellectualism, who will? A college ought to challenge its best students and the .. repmt is a good start. An Honors program, like the .. Steinmetz Curriculum.\ represents a new bold approach. ttl learning at Union. It harkens back to Union's traditional strengths, educational innovation. Many members of the colle$e goalie., Brim 8*14~--·th• · fame, sayina. ~i<m is: the: most ph}'Ji~l .. ~,m we~Vt· played against.\ He'latc:r said. \By no meam was the final aeon Ind>icat~e. · , 'Gf; · · the tighttaess :of tb.e.game~·· Just to· community have recently been concern~d about a d¢pa.tture from tha.t tradition in ·favor of a public relations campaign tQ boost Union's visibility. Ironically, mu~h of Prof. Nichols' program woul(l be funded by the Internal \Educational Fourtdatiol)., the progr.llm proposed by Planning and Priorities and soon to be placed on the Senate Agenda. If thi$ is defeated, one can 9nly speculate as to the ~ffects on. the .. Steinmetz Curriculum.\ One can only hope that these two attempts at intell¢ctua.l innovation are given s.erio.us thought and ultimate acceptance by a college community that often spends more time deriding its capabilities than fulfilling its potential. :caa tAtO Abhillea ·xflllit!:· ~y WOJt! hear that your · ttam if respected by one of the top college team& in ttte country ,,.,, ·· :::e~~~d:~;;~~n:;C:,<x,. ,,Qft:,,._~,IMIB ;. ·'. To the Editors: . Are the Dutchmen tops in Division H'? By now,. most Harkness is not like RW'st coaches. He had the O~tchmen sky ... ttigh. for the unwary Wildcats from U.N.H. During that magic 60 minutes .. \ ~ \ .1 .l ·• , I <t 1o \ • • .,. • . . . To the f..diton: I ··acn. writina in respl)tl$t to tlte letters written by &:nj'amin Rubin conccrnina tbe! · Pre ' . - c Thl recei Rasn and J(.oM perm. letter repriJ 1 I the ever dism nutnl Pl1 am Unic law do beca my first, fron: fro a expl expl Pres nos jour .Papc At me· exal Law ani1 beer No~ sma Dell onl3 .my ·cou \'ro nor sua, W01 For II we the H,..., Mr •. , . .J:I fuadin! Soctety tbtVsil\ Goil1ttli ~ CQJl ... \tl tlltitmi coiiil mt>'a't tlle,Sft ·l rae appt:a'Y SQOi.et) tlie\i$' ca.tl:jti~ lstW IK.L«tt Dleetj~ Perhat taken fild)t ha•~ today. .efo tht Dear~ Dov R I &hi

EDITORIALS Honors Th~ prospect of· Initiating .an honors program at Union revives our hope that not everyone at the College has abandoned the concept of intellectualism. Initiation of an enriched curriculum would promise to spark increased academic interest and activity on campus. The benefits of an honors curriculum, while direcify affecting the students and faculty involved, will spread throughout the College. The concommittant excitement will make Union a more dynamic, stimulating arena of education. Implicit within such a program are almost infinite opportunities to cultivate positive movement on Campus, as well as an improved (and deserved) academic reputation. Presently, Union fails to offer anything near the qualitative challenge that its academically gifted students deserve. Far too many of the College's best students transfer. Those that remain tend to suffer from either frustration or depression. Ostensibly, Union remains committed to realizing the highest academic standards. In practice, however, the College has .~ot lived up to the challenge. An honors program would offer reassurance that Union will still strive to move ahead in educational endeavors. Senate The All-College Senate met last week to debate the findings of the Athletic Task Force Report. Fortunately, to the credit of the Senate, debate was conducted on a peaceful, intelligent level, rather than the acrimonious, often irrational encounters that have characterized many meetings on athletics held in the past several months. Debate ensued over a mumber of critical issues and was conducted without rancor. The effects of leaving NESCAC, possible scheduling difficulties, public relation benefits, increased alumni support, small college ethics, and dangerous pressures of Division I on Admissions and Financial Aid were all brought into the debate without any explosions of temper. Most importantly, we feel, many people present, Senators and non-Senators, spoke of Union's educational philosophy as an institution. Concordy has already written a detailed account of why we feel that staying in NESCAC and not going Division I are the only suitable choices for Union. We will again present an in-depth· argument in an editorial before the next Senate meeting. We hope that after the next meeting of the Senate, the· bitterness of the issue will finally dissolve regardless of the outcome. Let's remember that we are all members of the Union community and that if we didn't have a common purpose and concern for the College, the athletic issue would not have us at each other's throats. At any rate, we hope Senators will make their decisions based on a rational deliberation of Union's direction as a small college and the way it ought to conduct itself ethically, whether it's in the range of athletics, tenure, or whatever. AU students interested, as well, ought to read the Task Force Report. While we feel it lacks enough ha.r~ data, it does ~n excellent job of cataloguing assumptions and opmtons of both s1des of the athletic controversy. Finally, when all passes,we again urge the College to move on with pressing educational matters. A new General Education proposal, the Internal Educational Foundation and a \Steinmetz Curriculum\ are the sorts of educational innovations that can make Union\ ... the most exciting and attractive small college in the nation\ to quote a man with whom we rarely agree. Editors-in-chief .................................................. how1e lax. 11l!ke rotondi News editor ..................................................... andy mite. hell matt bnef Features ed1tors ..................................... rnmam david. andreaserttlman Culture editors ............................................ .fern flomenhaft joe millett Sports edttors ...................................... danny woJmlower,_debbie poletto Copy edttor. ........................................................................... todd miller 8Ullmess managers ...................... barbara stern, marla lux. harns hal pert Classifieds editor ........................................................ martha rubenstein Subscnpuons editor .......................................................... harns hal pert Layout editors ............................................. Joe cappucto, nancy murphy Photography editors.. . ........... steve gnll, JOn !lese her Photo Staff ............................................... barry dtbernardo.il:fJ forman cary feuerman, joe tauber Art editor.............................................. . ......................... le•ter wets' Poetry editor....... .. .. . . .. .................................. delanne •ta&eman Staff this issue .......................... brad kessler. · kathy greco karen lee ann markowltz, alese cubinroa sharon cannizzaro matt lutlart cindy vanina linda straube J cynthia aranon. seth roslyn, patti moran tra goodman Calendar ............................................................................. nch bermker CONCORDIENSIS is published every Wednesday by the student body of Union College, Old Gym Hall, Schenectady, New \ork; to wbich Postal Forms 3579 are directed. Publications Office: The Jewish World PubUcatlons, 416 Smith St., Schenectady, N. \'. 1230!1 {J70.S483 ). Entered in the Schenectady Post Office as Second <lass Malter. Subscription Rate 35 cents per <COp), $10. a year delivered anywhere in the t.; nittd Stlltts. CONCORDIENSIS, Feb. 16, 1977 On the Right Path by MATT BRIEF \Union College currently offers. nothing for our brightest, most able students when· considel7ed as a group.\ This is a quote from a report by Political Science Professor Byron· Nichol•s Mellon Grant project entitled a Proposal to Create an Honors Program at Union College: The Steinmetz Currh:ulum. The report contains an assessment of Union's educational opportunities for its brightest students, estimated by Nichols through various measures, SA Ts, cum index, etc., to be 150-200 students. It presents a series of proposals that will affect as broad a segment of the student body as possible and offer new intellectual challenges in specially designed courses within each department. Of course, Honors programs are not unheard of in colleges. The report points out that colleges from Occidental in California to Bowdoin in Maine offer their own .. Steinmetz Curriculum.\ A program such as Prof. Nichols· proposes (all R.A.'s have been given copies), however, would be Union•s first chance to offer more for its most able students. The program offers many residual benefits, recruitment benefits in Admissions, and a tool for attracting Foundation support. However, the proposal marks an attitude both healthy, vital, and too long gone from Union College. To look at some of Union's major developments in the past few years: the Pub, Achilles Rink, the 6 yr. Med Program, they were socially beneficial, and/or had external benefits. The .. Steinmetz Curriculum\ is a real attempt to enhance Union's internal intellectual and educational atmosphere. Many will gripe that the report progra• failure To the. Editors: I am a graduate of Union College living and working as an engineer in the Schenectady .area. I have followc;;d the Comp. Ed. controversy which has been very well covered by ll series of letters by Union professorS. I hesitate to add my one very mundane point to the series of fine arguments, but it appears that one group has not been J:aeard frotn. l speak as on~: si'llall voice in the large crowd of tltQse who are the products of the Comp. Ed. system. l hope that others more able than I from this group shall join the discussion; 1 can only bring one fact. Because of a gap in my comprehensive education~ l am driving to Albany State each Thursday evening to take their most basic English course - English · I 00, EngHsh Composition. Sincerely, .Robert Siletzky ('73) To the E<titors: Are the Dutchmen tops in Division ll'l By now, most panders to an intellectual elite. Intellectuals are not especially prized in contemporary society and cynics might argue that in this, Uniorir an accurate reflection of the \real world.\ If you ,vead the proposal, you'U discover the vast majority of students will be eligible and, besides, if colleges do not strive for the utmost in intellectualism, who will? A college ought to challenge its best students and the report is a good start. An Honors pvogram, like the \Steinmetz Curriculum.\ represents a new bold approach to learning at Union. lt harkens back to Union's traditional strengths, educational innovation. Many members of the college L ·E'I···-· >T. -~-•-·E· '_ :R: :_ .. · i·S' ·•· . . . : -· ~ ' - ' -> - : _.- - . ·• ,• . . ' ' : ·- . ' . - . . -- ; :. :;; ' -~.: . . . : _; .. hockey faris ate na l()figer asking tbat' question~ rather they are wondering how well the Dutchmen WCJ\lld do, in Division J, After all, we beat Northeastera in their own rink, 3 .. 2, in the firSt garne of the yeat- They had been playins th~ B. u.ys and Harvard's for a mo~th already. We also easily handled Ohio State, 6--3, in our Christmas tou-rney. Losing ~p in Clarkson, b¢1ieve it or not, helped . strengthen tna~ty hockey buffs,. optniott of &Ur team~s ability~ .rather than hurt it. It's common knowledge that victori~s up ill Pe>stdam f'or Division l fl)eS are rtw and far between, let .alone a Division 11. team. Th.~ score was not important for our gt;tys. here, it was the remarks made by the tired Ali-AttteHcan Clarkson goalie, Brien Shields, after the farne, saying'\ .. Unio~ is the most Physical team. we've played against.'' lie later said, \By no means was the final score indicative of the tightness of the gante . ..: Just to bear that your team is rt}$pected by one of the top college teams in the country would ·be .enough fot most coaches. liut, then again, Ned Harkness is not like mo$.t coaches. He had the Dutchmen . sky-high f(lr the unwary Wildcats from U.N.H. Outing th.at magic 60 minutes ' .. community have recently been concerned about a departure from that tradition in favor of a public relations campaign to boost Union's visibility. lronically, much of Prof. Nichols' program would be funded by the Internal ·Educational Foundation, the program proposed by Planning and Priorities and soon to be placed on the Senate Agenda. If this is defeated, one can only speculate as to the effects on the \Steinmetz Curriculum.'' One can only hope that these two attempts at intellectual innovation are given serious thought and ultimate acceptance by a college community that often spends more time deriding its capabilities than fulfilling its potential. a couple of .Fridays ago, 3,400 screaming fans watched in awe as Harckness' machine completely disassembled. what, at th~ time, was the 2nd ranked hoc!Cey team in the United States, 84. When the dust settled, Union came· away ~!!Ji· what c:an only ·be oolled its first big step fotward •. So. some .People C()'U,ld actually make a case for· the Dut~hmen competing and even dt>ing well in Division I. tight now. As far· as sheer hockey ability is · concerned, and with all political arguments aside. Qur team defin.itely ,outClasses the majority of Division ll foes it faces.· Of course; tbe Me~imack game oo ~eb. 2S will be decisive as far as seed:irigs go, but. au· you fans wUl have trouble- recollecting the last Division H team that came into AchiUes Rink. and actually won! Sincerely,. To_m PahapiU to the Editors: l am writing in response to the lettets written b.y .Benjamin Rubin wncerning. the Pre ThE recei1 Rasm and Koblt. permi letter. reprir. Dear I a the ~ ever disrru manr Pl~ am l Unio law 1 do beca1 my first, from from ex.pu ex ph Presi no s1 joun .pape At me- ex an Law an ir been NO VI smal Den only my coul WfOI nor SUd( wou For1 Ir WeJ the~ Health Mr. R funding Society the A1 eonnm' ootivitie constitll tutions Comtiii: andaf1 the-Stu l tee( approvl Society the So caught I sugge he att~ meetitt~ Perhap taken merely have ' today. c/o the Dear 1\ Dov R I thil

be lf pts nd be bo; \' is bt as .. CONCORDIENSIS~ Feb. 16, 1977 Commentary: Alumnus' Opinion The following letter was received· by Vice-President .Rasmus~en, Ptesident Bonner, cmd Student TrUStee Andy Koblenz. With the au,ihor~s permi$.sic;n, Kc;blenz made the lttter available to ''Concordjl' for reprintmg. De1r Mr. Rasmussen~ report on the status of the Arts at President Bonner (which response Union. Here is a subject •of l did not see or hear about until profound influence to the future my late December visit to the of 6:be school and its ability to campus) was one of the paper's attract students of the 'highest finer moment!!, certainly you calibre, Here is a report which cannot deny that the interests of may alter the curriculum for a fully presenting both sides of an large .segment of the student issue warrant yout informing. me body, and even tbe internal ·of Concordy's teaction .(given that structure of the College's you had already informed me of academic departments. · Yet I the President's reaction to the I am somewhat surprised ~hat didn 1 t receive a copy of this report .scoop). How am l supposed to the Athletic Task Force report and my opinions have not been have a full enougb gra11p of the ever reached me, and 1 am solicited. Given that the College situation to make ~n intelligent clismayed. if not shocked, at the does not consult me oil comment to the Executive nuinner iil which it did reach me. academic/curricular matters of Committee if you only supply me Place yourself in my position: I such. fundamental import, I with ope side of the issue? am a year and a half out of cannot comprehend why my Quite frankly, if the alumni are Union; I am .in my second year ·Of opinion should .suddenly be of really as anti-NESCAC as the 'law school; I live in Colorado; f any greater value when the Task Force has been led to do not read Concordien'is ' subject is athletics, Either the b~lieve, then .J think it is high time because that paper never-soliCited College wants my opinion or it. that you and the Presi<ient my patronage. On November doesn't; lam somewhat.offended exhibited some leadership and first, last fall, 1 opened· a lettet that my opinion only becomes told the alumni to pipe down and from you, 44 The (enclosed) lettet important when someone in. let the College make its own from President Bonner is self- Schenectady deci<le!l it's .time to decision. this decision is, after explanatory .. \ Fa' r from. being self:.. make a stink. Is the Executive h. b all, a decision w 1ch elongs explanatory, the letter from Committee of the Alumni Council primarily to the students and President Bonner m3de absollltdy making a similar inquiry into the faculty of Union .. present, and no sense to one not privy to the Arts report? If not, why not? only peripherally to Union-past. joumalistic scoops of the school. Equally as mysterious is the The Task Force makes this same .Paper. · tone of the corre!lpdndence from point in another context on page At flrst l. thought this m~st be you. In both your letter of 30: .. No more season tickets are October 28 (accompanying the . . me - Ptesiden t's reaction 10 available without denying Umon exams were only a month off, students and staff the chance to Law Review had just hit me with Co.-cordiensis) and y()ur letter of attend games, and, after all, who an i91possible deadline; and· I had ~ember l6 (accompanying the are the College's athletics really been sick as well. But in mid- Task Force Report) the actual forT' November I had lunch with a words seem to say \this is such an small group of Union alumni in important issue that we value Denver, and their conversation your reaction.\ Yet the tone, the only confirmed and strengthened feeling I get is almost one of \I my initial reactions. None of us hope you'll disagree with the . could understand what was so· recommendation to remain in wrong witlt Concc;»rdy's . scoop, NESCAC, and if you do disagree nor why ·atbleti<.: . policy was, • please be lo~c!,.about it.\ I cannot su&denly st:J'c\junJiortailt -that \V~ •. . help but wonder if those of us would recei've a copy of the Task alumni who received copies of the Force ·Report. report aren't being \used\ to Indeed, I still wonder, why did .. c~ate\ oppositi9n to the report. we get the report? Last September Ev.en if you dcin't agree with me the Coliege .rece1ved an exhaUstive that Coneordy's response to .;:· '>t.~tl''- ;·~0;-:;. /t't~~·2~·: :{cV ;A-3 -~·t'~: .. $ -~ . 1; t:::-1..;:.~ M) l::'....;;v_:,·; .. · · .0::>~.-.·-~,'~f~.:, ·i:~····;...i::(tt''\.;v:\ ·_,',,'-;'~-~ ~\~i,.~:'_.'~-ti;, ~:.:~/ • Perhaps l am overreacting, and hopefully my perceptions ate all wrong. But ·because I have this reaction and this set of perceptions 1 feel I must break my vows to stay out of the internal affairs of. the College and to not \come .. orl\as a. typical obno~ious alumnus. Sincerely yours, . Bruce Downsbrough '75 Head Agent e/O the lditon· Dear Mf. lhn)lmin Dov aublm how<tver) cmnnot go without a reply. . Without going into. details, l.tnink Jt is •ufficient . w quote J. Underwood jU&t I thin'k your facts are a little Page9 From the Pr~ide11t's Desk Is the CoUege MOl'ing Off Dead Center? In recent weeks a wave of feeling has spread over the campus that a number of College initiatives have been blunted and the hope$ of last September for change in a number of areas drowned· l>y inerti.P., campus bureaucracy, or lack of leadership. The editors of Concordy have written forcefully about student discontent with the lack of progress in the Arts program artd the plans for reform in comprehensive education. Similarly, the Division Chairmen of the faculty reported considerable concern among the faculty about these and other matters of unfinished business, including the resolution of the athletic issue and th.e future of the Institute of Administration and Management. Still others f:}re concerned about admissions policy, continuing education, and plans for an Internal Education Foandation. l share these conce:r:ns. In successive meetings with the leaders of Coneordy and WRUC, the Division Chairmen, the Presidential Advisory Board, and the Administrative Cabinet, I have asked 'for explanations of the sense of stagnation on the campus in recent months and why things seem to be moving at such glacial speed. In addition; I have asked for reactions to a comprehensive college model for Union's future in which many of the programs now under consideration would play an important role. · Now, l believe, the logjam is beginning to break and significant movement appears to be taking place in many parts of the campus. Item: the Report of the Task Force on Athletics has been discussed for the first time in the College Senate and there seems to be agFeement on a procedure for legislative debate and action on the recommendations ~oncerning intercollegiate athletic policy. Other recommendations· in the Report are being referred to appropriate committees of he Senate. Item: the Depa;rtment of the Arts has provided the Provost, who has overall responsibility for the development of an arts plan, with requests for faculty and course growth through 1990. lt is my strong conviction that at least some preliminary plan for the growth- of the Arts in the years ahead should be laid before the Senate by year's end. (Parenthetically, it will be the campus plan for the arts,' not the consultants' report of last summer, that should be compared with the plan for athletics developed by the Task Force - and receive equivalent attention from all constituencies of the College.). It is also the College's intention. under leadership from the Dean of Faculty, to have a temporary lecturer in art history in place by the spring term and a full-time art historian by next falL Item: the Provost, who has been delegated responsibility for development of a plan for procedural and administrative changes to f<:ister the growth and integration of I.A.M. into the total College; has offered a nurnbe of suggestions for moving this matter forward on the College agenda. Again, this longstanding .issue should reach some kind of agreement and action by year·s end . Uem: the issue of greatest l<mg·run consequence to the College, the reform of comprehensive education, has been taken an important distance forward by the completion of the E.P.C. subcommittee rep01t and its preliminary presentation to the general faculty and the College Senate. I know that many share my conviction that some kind of action on the report --· though not necessarily immediate implementation should be attempted this year to restore faith in our capacity to act on important questions. Item: the Admissions Committee has met frequently this year -- and a number of additional faculty have worked with the Admissiom Office ~ with the objective of clarifying admissions objectives and standards. The Committee reports that considerable progress has been made. (Parenthetically, the most recent report of the College Board puts Union ahead of at least 95 per cent of reporting colleges in high-school class rank, verbal and mathematical SAT scores, and grade point averages in h1gh school. The Report also indicates an \unusually large increase\ by 1976 applicants at Union in English average. reading test average, and percentage with verbal SAT .scores above 600.) Item: I amdelighted finally at the widespread interest m and discussion of my report to the Board on the state of the College. Professor Underwood's lengthy and thoughful letter irl the last issue of Concordy is an excellent example. No question is finally mote important than the overall goals and direction of the College. Each of the items above is related to the .long-term future of Union and the effort to make it the most exciting ·quality undergraduate college in the nation because it can offer more support to the c(!ntral academic purposes of. the instituti9n . .. ., .. ~ ..... ~.._ • ..,, .• * .. ~~\·~1·•

be If ge ds is it y, CONCORDJENSIS, Feb. 16, 1977 Commentary: Alumnus' Opinion The following letter was received by Vice-President Rasmussen, President Bonner, and Student Trustee Andy Koblenz. With the author's permission, Koblenz made the letter. available to \Concordy\ for reprinting. Dear Mr. Rasmussen, I am somewhat surprised that the Athletic Task Force report ever reached me, and I am dismayed, if not shocked, at the manner in which it did reach me. Place yourself in my position: 1 am a year and a half out of Union; I am in my second year of law school; I live in Colorado; 1 do not read Com:ordiensis because that paper never solicited my patronage. On November first, last fall, I opened a letter from you, ••The (enclased) letter from President Bonner is self- explanatory.\ Far from being self- explanatory, the letter from President Bonner made absolutely no sense to one not privy to the journalistic scoops of the school _paper. At first I thought this must he me- exams were only a month off, Law Review had just hit me with an impossible deadline, and I had been sick as well. But in mid- November I had lunch with a small group of Union alumni in Denver, and their conversation only confirmed and strengthened my initial reactions. None of us could understand what was so wrang with Concordy's scoop, nor why athletic policy was suddenly so important that we would receive a copy of the Task Force Report. Indeed, I still wonder, why did we get the report? Last September the College recetved an exhaustive report on the status of the Arts at Union. Here is a subject of profound influence to the future of the school and its ability to attract students af the highest calibre. Here is a report which may alter the curriculum for a large segment of the student body, and even the internal structure of the College's academic departments. Yet I didn't receive a copy of this report and my opinions have not been solicited. Given that the College does not consult me on academic/curricular matters of such fundamental import, 1 cannot comprehend why my opinion should suddenly be of any greater value when the subject is athletics. Either the College wants my opinion or it doesn't; I am somewhat offended that my opinion only becomes important when someone in Schenectady decides it's time to make a stink. Is the Executive Committee of the Alumni Council making a similar inquiry into the Arts report? If not, why not? Equally as mysterious is the tone of the correspondence from you. In both your letter of October 28 (accompanying the President's reaction to Concordiensis) and your letter of December 16 (accompanying the Task Force Report) the actual words seem to say ••this is such an important issue that we value your reaction.\ Yet the tone, the feeling I get is almost one of .. I hope you'll disagree with the recommendation to remain in NESCAC, and if you do disagree please be loud about it.\ I cannot help but wonder if those of us alumni who received copies of the report aren't being \used\ to \create\ opposition to the report. Even if you don't agree with me that Coneordy's response to President Bonner (which response I did not see or hear about until my late December visit to the campus) was one of the paper's finer moments, certainly you cannot deny that the interests of fully presenting both sides of an issue warrant your infdtming me of Concordy's reaction (given that you had already informed me of the President's reaction to the scoop). How am I supposed to have a full enough grasp of the situation to make an intelligent comment to the Executive Committee if you only supply me with one side of the issue? Quite frankly, if the alumni are really as anti-NESCAC as the Task Force has been led to believe, then I think it is high time that you and the President exhibited some leadership and told the alumni to pipe down and let the College make its own decision. This decision is, after all, a decision which belongs primarily to the students and faculty of Union-present, and only peripherally to Union-past. The Task Force makes this same point in another context on page 30: \No more season tickets are available without denying Union students and staff the chance to attend games, and, after all, who are the College's athletics really for?\ Perhaps I am overreacting, and hopefully my perceptions are all wrong. But because I have this reaction and this set of perceptions I feel I must break my vows to stay out of the internal affairs of the College and to not come on as a. typical obnoxious alumnus. Sincerely yours, Bruce Downsbrough '75 Head Agent Health Society, As I have told Mr. Rubin, th~ -matter of funding of a Pte Health Society is not in the hands of the Audit Committee. the Committee acts only · on activities which have approved constitlltions. T]).e consti• tutinns are reviewed by the Committee on Committees and a final de<::tsion is mad~·by the,Student Forum. twisted~ (Letters to Con.eordy Jan 26 and Feb. 9,. 1977 .. ) The so-called Pre·.oJ:Iealth Society was reviewed at the beginning of the fall term. 1976-77 ~cbool year. . The Committee dn Committees rejected the Constitution of the Society wheteupC>n you were l>uly lnfotmed of this. Yet you then proceeded. to withdraw $60 of Student Tax money for a speaker that you arransed for and promised to pay him fot expen$es he had incurred ·in making the trip t(} Union and to pay for his room and board. M'emb.ets of Student Government let this incident be forgotten as we were not prepared td . beat the mortey out of the speaker tb.at you had oooked. Yet We reiterated that there w.as no f'rewHe31tb Society. ll.owe.·ver, you continue with yout public next week's Con.eordy demanding retribution for the writer of this letter, but before you write another letter to Com:ordy please use the proper cbannels that are open to you and I a:m sur~ justice wili be meted out. Then there can ·be no argument over this· matter. Thank you for wasting l received no mention of the approval of t:he Pre Health Society's constitution. Perhaps the Societyfs request did get caught up in the bureaucracy. I suggested to· Mr. Rubin t.bat he attend a Student Forum meeting and present his case. Perhaps if Mr. Rubifi had taken · action tathet· than merely complainif18 we would have a Pre Heaith Society tdday. Sincerely, tarry Fein Chairman, Student Audlt Committee clo the. Editors Dear M:t. Benjamin Dov Rubin: I think your facts are a little · politicking which seems to be directed to those of -great importance when applying to Medical Schools. I am personally tired .of this shit. You have seen me on repeated occasions but failed to mention your distress and yet you proceed to write letters to Coneot.dy tooting your own hprn without any facts to back you. If you have a prohlem:, 'bring. it to the Student Forum, which has the final say in matters such as these. l am . s~re there will be a l~tter in . - . -, . . . ~ . my time. Sincerely~ Miebael Gam; Vice- fteslden~ SttJDI!iNT FORlJM; Cbairm&m.. COMMITTEE ON COMMITTE~S To the Editors; l bave foHowed the discussion about Union College Hockey and President Bonnet's address to the Board of Trustees as presented in the. pages of your paper with gteat interest. The most recent remarks of J. Underwood, however, cannot go without a reply. Without going into details, l think it is sufficient to quote J. Underwood j.ust C'Jntinued on P•gc 10 ... , ' Page9 From the President's Desk Is the College Moving Off Dead Center? In recent weeks a wave of feeling has spread over the campus that a m1mber of College initiatives have been blunted and the hopes of last September for change in a number of areas drowned by inertia, campus bureaucracy, or lack of leadership. The editors of Concordy have written forcefully about student discontent with the lack of progress in the Arts program and the plans for reform in comprehensive edlication. Similarly, the Division Chairmen of the faculty reported considerable concern amon.g the faculty about these and other matters of unfinished business, including the resolution of the athletic issue and the future of the Institute of Administration and Management. Still others are concerned about admissions policy, continuing education, and plans for an Internal Education Foundation. I share these concerns. In successive meetings with the leaders of Concordy and WRUC, the Division Chairmen, the Presidential Advisory Board, and the Administrative Cabinet, I have asked for explanations of the sense of stagnation on the campus in recent months and why things seem to be moving at such glacial speed. In addition, I have asked for reactions to a comprehensive college model for Union's future in which many of the programs now under consideration would play an important role. Now, I believe, the logjam is beginning to break and significant movement appears to be taking place in many parts of the campus. Item: the Report of the Task Force on Athletics has been discussed for the first time in the College Senate and there seems to be agreement on a procedure for legislative debate and action on the recommendations concerning intercollegiate athletic policy. Other recommendations in the Report are being referred to appropriate committees of he Senate. Item: the Department of the Arts has provided the Provost, who has overall responsibility for the development of an arts plan, with requests for faculty and course growth through 1990. It is my strong conviction that at least some preliminary plan for the growth of the Arts in the years ahead should be laid before the Senate by year's end. (Parenthetically, it will be the campus plan for the arts, not the consultants' report of last summer, that should be compared with the plan for athletics developed by the Task Force - and receive equivalent attention from all constituencies of the College.). It is also the College's intention, under leadership from the Dean of Faculty, to have a temporary lecturer in art history in place by the spring term and a full-time art historian by next fall. Item: the Provost, who has been delegated responsibility for development of a plan for procedural and administrative changes to fo'ster the growth and integration of I.A.M. into the total College, has offered a numbe of suggestions for moving this matter forward on the College agenda. Again, this longstanding issue should reach some kind of agreement and action by year's end. Item: the issue of greatest long-run consequence to the College, the reform of comprehensive education, has been taken an important distance forward by the completion of the E.P.C. subcommittee report and its preliminary presentation to the general faculty and the College Senate. I know that many share my conviction that some kind of action on the report - though not necessarily immediate implementation - should be attempted this year to restore faith in our capacity to act on important questions. Item: the Admissions Committee has met frequently this year - and a number of additional faculty have worked with the Admissions Office - with the objective of clarifying admissions objectives and standards. The Committee reports that considerable progress has been made. (Parenthetically, the most recent report of the College Board puts Union ahead of at least 95 per cent of reporting colleges in high-school class rank, verbal and mathematical SAT scores, and grade point averages in high school. The Report also indicates an \unusually large increase\ by 1976 applicants at Union in English average, reading test average, and percentage with verbal SAT scores above 600.) Item: I am delighted finally at the widespread mterest m and discussion of my report to the Board on the state of the College. Professor Underwood's lengthy and thoughful letter in the last issue of Concordy is an excellent example. No question is finally more important than the overall goals and direction of the College. Each of the items above is related to the long-term future of Union and the effort to make it the most exciting quality undergraduate college in the nation because it can offer more support to the central academic purposes of the institution.

Page 10 Senate Debates ( 'ontinued from P&J.!t' 1 that would exploit athktes. W ll b the scsston ncarmg an end, the Senate returnl'd to the 1ssue o! Welb' original proposals. I he t IrSt two (physwal education and lal'llities,) were passed. and the resolution on women's athktics was reworded to endorse the llnplt:rnentallon ot ~he Report's n:commel1dations as the mintrnurn needed. Wells then raised a last resolution, recommending that Union should be ca.reful .not to get itself thrown out of NESCAC and that the Senate should endorse the principles of that conference. The point was ruled out of order. As a closing statement, Provost Enteman, chairing in the absence of Prestdent Bonner, read !rom a leiter by Thomas Werner, Chai~rnan of the Athletic Committee. l o .postpone a dec1sion. he read, would only worsen things. One way or another, the important decisions should be made as soon as possible. Honors Program Continued from Pa2e 1 mterestingly, we do have a substantial numhcr of supenor students at Umon, as data supplied by the Admissions office mdicates. Prokssor Nichols estimates that \ ... there are probably at least 150-200 students at Union who m1ght be prime candidates for an honors program.\ What this Admissions data fails to show and what Nichols implies but does not bring attention to is what makes a super,ior student. in an interview with Concordy, Nichols explained that there are three types of students who he classifies as bemg superior: one, the person with raw intellectual ab11ity; two, the student who is sell-motivated and thereby naturally curious about academic matters; and three, the student who has a high 4uality of preparation before he even enters the class, i.e., through specific experience closely related to the course. In opening the actual proposal ol his rrport, Dr. Nichols sumrnanzcs the '\givens' m considering an honors program at l! nion.\ One. an honors program i' neetled l\l fill a gap in ou1 educational program. Two, we must maintain that which \ ... we already do well for our best students. Lc.. independent study and scmor research in department ma1ors. lhirdly, \the single greatest dd1c1cncy 1n the education of our reeccnt supenor '.\l!(ten!s 1s prnh<Jhly the narrowne'is ol their course selectiOn.'' \llanv students e.\fHess the opm1on that they have plenty ol work to do already and lear that an honor~ course would all the more hurdcn theu ~cheduk. I hu~.lht.' fourth po1nt. that\ the quahtv uf demands made upon the ~tudent. .~hould d1~tingt11sh an honors program. not the quant1ty ol those t.kmands,\ will come as a reltd It there 1\ anv rc<Jl lllstdicaiHl!l lor crcalmg an honor> program at l; mon.- It Js, as 1\i ichob says, \ .. on the 'amt: ground~ ot dcmo.crallc pluralism as art.' more recent prt1grams lor dls<HJ\antaged \lllderlh. .. rhc o.,ttuallon 1s s1rn1lar to the recent ulntrt>\t:r\V over the Art~ program ;11 I n1on II we rall'r It> the needs ol one grottp. v.lnk nqdeltlng the need\ of ,tnothcr root. on nrxt peat Continued once to demonstrate how unsafe the ground is on which he bases his approval or disapproval of the President's model: .. But if the result of these phenomena is that I faculty perspectives are distorted, it must also be admitted that otber of the College's .. constituencies\ may suffer from biased perspectives.\ In spite of admitting that his own views may be biased, J. llnderwood approves and disapproves of parts and implications of the President's model as if he is in the possession of the correct view. On a number of issuf!s, J. Underwood is objectively wrong, and it is not for the first time, that he goes public with wrong or unfounded hypotheses. In the most recent article 1 wish to point to his assertion that \survival depends on the maintenance of the traditional high quality and reputation of the core undergraduate enterprise.'' And where, if I may ask, will the students come from to keep the core undergraduate enterprise financially viable (after aU. none of u.s works for free)'! From a student population which is expected to decline by as much as 30% from the peak levels in the s~ties? It may well be, that the graduate and adult education programs which J. Underwood perceives to depend on the undergraduate . <:!.fH'e for ·survival will help t~lruure the .survival of the undergraduate core at the level of uademic quality which we all deem desimble. To this point, I :~close a copy of an artiole .,;,,:Wllil<lh ap~ared very reoently . JW.siness Week and Qope you will seek pcrmissloo the publ$hets .Gf UUs :,~~&m;,U to 1'eptodu.:e .this ·-.at least. in. P$t~ ~ ... '.f, ... , ors----------- formulation). Another author controversial targets on which lists sixteen (!) constituencies the sites are focused include · in which individual members the printing of the Athletic cun be aggregated in tile case, Task Force Report, the lack of of a College. While I do not adequate sports coverage, the pretend to be able to analyze conspicuous dearth of this system of interacting intellectual stimulation, and groups in a month's nor even the omnipresent ineptitude of in a year's work - maybe we the staff. Tbese issues, can do it in a decade's w~rk- however, are minor eompared if we restrict ourselves to think to Coneonly's most recent on every issue, the President's offense, the deletion of Tlte model, or Union Hockey in Letters to tile Geek. terms of one or two Qr even What dastardly fate has three constituencies only, we Concordy fixed for the Geek'l are bound to fail, since our Why does tbis colQrful column approach bas not been broad no longer r11n rampant· enough. I urge aU those who through ~be pqes of our will make comments an<i offer beloved 'newspaper? What thoughts, opinions. or fact.s in could have possessed the the moo.ths of discussjon diabolical e<iitats to eliminate a~ of Union on the .\Dear Abby\ · oil Union important matters, to . . . College? broadest f~ork theYo:~~Jn Only last week I wrote a handle, and &itt-·. y of us letter desperately seeking are bound to m . istakes ad vice concern-ing . my when doing 110, I urge all the roommate's sexual affairs. You others to consider each see, since his girl· friend is argument on its merits and abroad this term, J feel that his submit their statements with heterosexual drive is the respect we owe one sputtering. I've tried another as members of .,the everything l>ut simply refuse to Union CoUege community. succumb to his ultimate Jf this letter sounds request. disrespectful to J. Underwood, Please Geek, what should I I offer my apologies. 1 feel, .do? Who should I turn to (and however, that another debate don't be funny)? Please realize, concerning Union's future got Oeek (and staff) that people off to a bad start by your campus wide not only read but publication of J. Underwood's need your omniscient column. comments without offeri11.g a Sincerely, balanced view to set tbe Dreweifer Jones disappointment with some Union C~llege students during this past Winter Carnival weekend. Our feelings stem mainly from two specific e~nts - a disruptive Frida~. night after the Br9ornbal! Game and a chaoti~; Sundr~y Brun~. ! · We feel that \Vlt- ·most students- a.,..· ~o~fate- and cMtent · Unitm, there are those who dae. level complaints and ditrupt the peaceful environm(int at Union. These members cause enouah strife md destruction so as to prevent places like the Du~h Hollow from. offering the maxitm~m amount · of servia: and enjoyment whkh it· is capable of .... In gen~ We would like to apologize to tbose students wbo have offered respect and displayed patience. We will . continue to tty to improve our. services, but we require support and patience from all students if we are to offer more. Remember, we don't exist in spite of you, but rather for you. The Management of The Duteb Hollow Pub projeeting aeo•plalut framework for the discussions · and Dantan Smith To the Editom to be lead. Finally. let me As the or~r of.. the p()int to one more paradox. Thursday film Se~ one of which so far has failed to the 3 major orgatlizations that appear in the open. Wlt.etiever ·see Ill@ use th:e' faeilities at S.$ ... lt) I talk to members of the · {Film €o~ ·~Qd Hild: CoUege Community, they ·· ·. · being the:~ ~)j;Ntdthat J· voice strong support for an c/o the .Editol$ lU:Mt a right' t(.} <~ttal:~ ·a :public immediate move intn DM$iott ·to AU ~nts}•ml_. · C'omP:laint ·. tfobht:&;\Rt~n I · .... __..t.~-v •. J _,_,,.. ... m ... ·' ·.··-~·-.·~ \· · · ... ~., ~-~ bothrm -~·or · sup; of ;;;hua. ~v;: : J~~)'\~_:~k FGI~! · . ' · •.tt;t,\tvaJ ·.Does anybody ·know Wlty my/ · -®Jte-~na stt. --re U·- friends on Campus nJit llpeaf¢'< \'· . up?. ..·· . . It is surely lbre ~~>VerU!tt· to hear··ihe' Prc~Sidettt;sti!lteUM§' Ul~t· .. ·'(rr. e,., ;.,., . · tel'W!I:()Q<Jc'l&q ~t~~ -~, • ~~.of the· ::P~Jident~s ta' pr~ on ... ;$e : ~­ •· •illJSSUmpt:ion that the . CoUe~ l;.~~•mumt:y mipt juqe it to dofieient on the m<rits is .UJe . .a,t;~·thes.·'~i.::~·'Atfte::%· discussion · of·:thfs. ~;;:seems: · tu· bfit···~W.··:h}'··'llfe·· opponents Of this move? I urge all those who fed with me that such· a move would be benefiCial to the College to come forward and say so in the open. lf we got to the point that a student cannot voice an opinio-n differing from that of some of his teachers without being afraid to be put under particular pressure with respect to his classroom performance, than Union is a lost cause, and we might as well give up to discuss its future. I hope that in the heat of an (unfortunately) political discussion nobody has to give up his right to disagree respectfully. most incredible statemeS:t:~l .have ever seen concerning 'lbe evaluation of a proposal. I suggest that we discuss the model on its merits and its merits alone. Finally, to set the framework for this analysis, l think that a framework going back to Ch. I. Barnard and H. Simon is the only appropriate one, since it is the most comprehensive one. As J. Underwood and a number of readers of his most recent statement probably realize, this framework is not unknown to him. Why he does not apply it, I don't understand. Could. it be, that he resists the necessity to apply a comprehensive analysis which is inherent in this framework, since it would force him to abandon his own distorted perspectives'! The framework as such is quite simple. It states that everybody who ever deals with Union should be considered a member of Union. And the art of College management consists in keeping every member sufficiently happy to ·make continuation of the association with Union ·rewarding to him (here I ~g the forgivingness of my teachers at lAM who spent considerable time in teaching me a more sophisticated -. ' . . ~ ~ . \' . . \ ~ ,. .. I rl ,_ •· • .t ·~ .. · I certainly disagree with J. Underwood and all those whose views he represents and I am offering some of my own views for discussion. Sincerely, Peter Koeppel '75 To the Editors: Coocordiensis has recently come under attack from various sectors of the Union ·' college community. The (i.e., me) Will to · a decision of :fiotne sort. It fs that decision that ca~ me to write. The Student Forum bas already held one relatively unsuccessful open meeting to discuss Task Force issues (23 attended). It i$ any intention to individually jump back into the fire! Yes, on Monday, Feb. 21, at 7:3() p.m. in Fox Lounge and again at 9 p.m. in Edwards LQunge, I as.k for your appearance armed with your mouths and opinions about the issues. I have in the past attempted other such discussions I was disappointed. Don't disapp<Nnt me again! On athletics I have an open mind - too open - the decision has too many sides, and will not be easy. On other subjects (IEF to the Steinmetz curriculum) I also wish to hear and speak. Until Monday ... Sincerely, Bill Jenkins student disorder ., To the Editors: We would like to express both our disillusionment and ·:.tbtll. equiptMitt,, : .. cheeks.. hurried and· in~mplete. OooasionaUy, films haw had to start late beea:uae · af this problem. Granted that these incidents do not occur for · every showing Of every f'dm-;; but it happens often enough and inconveniences enough people to warrant complaining. Everyone Who has attended a ftlm over the past year knows just how terrible the projection equipment is. The screen is old and dirty, making viewirtg of a film very distracting. And God help you if you go to see a movie in Cinemascope; the second screen to accomodate the wide image is not even on the same ·plane as the main screen, thus creating a thick black line about two-thirds of the way across the image. The sound system is a disgrace. The overhead speakers garble works, making films in English sound. Scandinavian. The stage speakers sound fine, but the wires that make the connection to the system are held together with ~otch brand_ tape (\frosty on the roll, invisible on the job\). The connections are tenuous at best, and the sound wiil occasionally switch from one -t of speakers to . . . ... ·r .v -, ·' _, .. ·:. ~ .. ~ ... ~ .. ,.. '! ~ ~ ~j ¥r ;/, \r.., ... ~-1},, ~~~~.\> :4> ~~:~: ~ ~ ..:·:\ :~-~·l :-.<;, ~+: ~-:·< ;.\ ~~ anotl Tb are pro: Oisg: sat tl O'f 1 b.alf dirt thret cond was proj! Tl de pi' that extr with tbe inco facil in proJ of met: 81J To l to ·cot Cot doi1 aeti call •e~ get'l pro he.a colt add dail Un out aml tba Ma dts the· 1 .. ·I T' tel co ' b~ is~ tb. to pr st1 1<:1 in W1 e)j se Li te w P• ea fr ill \\1 sc ~ ai 0 0 ii C1 lc a 0 E e b p tl 8

10 Senate Debates Continued from Page I that would exploit athletes. With the sesswn r:tearing an end, the Ser:tate returned to the tssue ol Wells' ongmal proposals. I he ftr~t two (physical education and tac1l.1ttes) were passed, and the resoluuon on women's athlettcs was reworded to endorse the implementation of the Report's recommenda!lons as the mm1mum needed. Wells then raised a last resolution. recommertding that Umon should be careful not to get Itself thrown out of NESCAC and that the Senate should endorse the principles of that conference. The point was ruled out of order. As a closing statement, Provost Enteman, chairing in the absence o! President Bonner, read from a letter by Thomas Werner, Chatrma n ol the Athletic Commtttee. I o postpone a dec1s10n, he read, would only worsen things. One way or another. the important decisions should be made as soon as posstble. Honors Program Continued from Page 1 interestingly. we do have a substantial number of supenor students at U mon, as data supplied by the Admissions office indicates. Professor Nichols estimates that \ ... there are probably at least 150-200 students at Union who might be prime candidates for an honors program.\ What th1s Adm1ssions data fails to show and what Nichols implies but does not bring attention to is what makes a superior student. In an interview with Concordy, Nichols explained that there are three types of students who he classifies as being superior: one, the person with raw intellectual ability; two, the student who is self-motivated and thereby naturally curious about academic matters; and three, the student who has a high quality of preparation before he even enters the class, i.e.. through specific experience closely related to the course. In opening the actual proposal of his report, Dr. Nichols summantcs the '\givens' m constdering an honors program at Union.\ One, an honors program ~~ needed lo till a gap in out cducattonal program. lwo. we must mamtatn that which \ ... we already do well for our best students, t.e .. mdependent study and sentor research in department maJors. I htrdly, \the ~tngle greatest dehc1ency tn the educatton of our reecent supenor .,tudents ts prohahly the narrownes~ ol thctr course selectton.\ \1anv -.tudent~ express the opmton that they have plenty ol work to do already and lear that an honors course would all the more burden thetr ~chedule. I hm. the fourth poant. that\ .. the qualtty ol demands made upon the qudent .. should d1stingutsh an honors program. not the ljuantlty of tho~c demands ... wtll come as a reltet. II there 1s an~ real JUsttf teat ton lor creatmg an honon program at Ln10n. 11 ts. as :'litchols says. ..... on the same grounds of democrattc pluraltsm as arc more recent program~ lor dt~dvantaged student... .. I he .,ttuatton • ., \lmtlar to the recent contro\ ersy o\er the Art\ program at L nton II we cater to the need> ol one group. whtle ncglcl·t1ng the needs ol another coot. on nut paae .... _,., ... · .- .- ... . .. · Letters to the Edi.tors--------- Continued once to demonstrate how unsafe the .ground is on which he bases his approval or disapproval of the President's model: \But if the result of the&e phenomena is that I faculty perspectives are distorted, it must also be admitted that other of the College's \constituencies\ may suffe.r from biased perspectives.\ In spite of admitting that his own views may be biased, J. Underwood approves and disapproves of parts and implications of the President's model as if he is in the possession of the correct view. On a number of issues, J. Underwood is objectively wrong, and it is not for the first time, that he goes public with wrong or unfounded hypotheses. In the most recent article I wish to point to his assertion that \survival depends on the maintenance of the traditional high quality and reputation of the core undergraduate enterprise.\ And where, if I may ask, will the students come from to keep the core undergraduate enterprise financially viable (after all, none of us works for free)? From a student population which is expected to decline by as much as 30% from the peak levels in the sixties? It may well be, that the graduate and adult education programs which J. Underwood perceives to depend on the u.ndergraduate ~pre for ·survival will help t(};\msu.re the survival of the undergraduate ~ore at the level of academic quality which we. all deem desirable. To this point. l .. close a copy of an article .. •Which appeared very recently Jn .l:lusiness Week and hope · tP:at Y<.JU wm seek permissiQn . ~m the publishers .of this :i!lM.rnal to reproduce . thi$ .,i81~cle at l®st ill part.. · , urtb.e.cm<J.re,. .····· >L \J~f1WO(~s .\ st:~te~t -~~'t .an~Lly$~. of the Pt;e$ident',s ;,~Qdel.has to prool!ed oil. .the · l,lssumption that the College ,.oonnnunity might Judge it to be deficient on the merits is.~ most incredible stateme~£,1 .have ever seen concerning the evaluation of a proposal. I suggest that we discuss the model on its merits and its merits alone. F ina Hy. to set the framework for this analysis, I think that a framework going back to Ch. l. Barnard and H. Simon is the only appropriate one, since it is the most comprehensive one. As J. Underwood and a number of readers of his most recent statement probably realize, this framework is not unknown to him. Why he does not apply it, I don't understand. Could it be, that he resists the necessity to apply a comprehensive analysis which is inherent ill this framework, since it would force him to abandon his own distorted .perspectives? The framework as such is quite simple. It states that . everybody who ever deals with Union should be considered a member of Union. And the art of College management consists in keeping every member sufficiently happy to make continuation of · the association with Union rewarding to him (here I beg the forgivingness of my teachers at lAM who spent considerable time in teaching me a more sophisticated formulation}. Another author controversial targets on which lists sixteen (!) constituencies the sites are focused include in which individual members the printing of the Athletic can be aggregal.ed in the case Task Force Report, the lack of of a College. While I do not' adequate sports coverage, the pretend to be able to analyze conspicuous dearth of this system of interacting intellectual stimulation, and groups in a month's nor even the omnipresent ineptitude of in a year's work - maybe we the staff. These issues,. can do it in a decade's work- however, are minor compared if we restrict ourselves to think to Co.-.eonly's most recent on every issue, the President's offense, tile deletion of The model, or Union Hockey in Letters to the Geek. terms of one or two or even What dastardly fate bas three constituencies only, we Concordy fixed for the Oeek? are bound to fail, since our Why does this colorful column approach has not been broad no longer run rampant, enough. I urge all those who through the pages of our will make comments and otler beloved newspaper? What thoughts, opinions, or facts in could have possessed the the months of discussion diabolical editors to eliminate aHead of Union on the .\Dear Abby\ oii Union important matters, to· College? broadest framework they .~n Only last week I wrote a handle, and sin~ m,any of us letter desperately seeking are bound to mak¢ mistakes advice concerning · my when doing so, I urge all the roommate's sexual affairs. You others to consider each see, since his girl friend is argument on its merits and abroad this term, I feel that his submit their statements with heterosexual drive is the .-espect we owe one sputtering. I've tried another as members of . the everything but simply refuse to Union Collese community. su<:cumb to his ultimate If this letter sounds request disrespectful to J. Underwood, Please Geek, what should I I offer my apologies. 1 feel, do? Who should I turn to (and however, that another debate don't be funny)? Please realize, concerning Union's future got Geek (and staff) that people off to a bad start by your campus wide not only read but publication of J. Underwood's need your omniscient column. comments without offering a Sincerely, balanced view to set the Drewclfer Jones disappointment with some Union C9llege students during this past Winter Carnival weekend. Our feelings stem mainly from two specific events - a disruptive Frida~ night after the .Bt'oombalt Game and a chaotie. Sund~y Brun{!h. t We feel that whi~ most students are 't~l'Y coosk:lemte- and content ~1ll Unicn~ tltere are those who do. level complaints and disrupt the peaceful environment at Union. These members cause enough strife and destruction so as to prevent .places like the Dutch Hollow from. offering the maximum amouttt of service and enjoyment which it is capable of. In general, we would like to. apologize to those students who have offered respect and displayed patience. We will continue to try to improve our services, but we require support and patience from all students if we are to offer more. Remember~ we don't exist in spite of you,. but rather filr you. The Manageme111 of The Dutelt HoUow Pub projeeting aeomplaiut framework for the discussions . and Dantan Smith To the Editors: to be lead. Finally, let me As the otganiz~r ()f the point to one more paradox, Thursday Fihn Seri~. one of whi~h so far has failed to tbe 3 major organizations that appear in the open. Whenever see we use the fa:cilities at s.s. 016 I talk to members of the (Film Catnntitue and Hillel Coilege Community, they being th.e'·otluJt,2'>;-l&el·tbat I voice strong support· for an e/fJ. tile.. J%ditot~ lUWe a r~Sbt to· mS:ke a .'pu&lie immediate move into f)ivision ·· · To All -Btwlents •nd ~m;plaint · tt1rottt ylltojetltion I book.ey. · I myself am ·a ., .. ~mo.r.,&(ieehdly; · ·· ; · ',,, Faeili~, b'Otbi'iflf 'tertn~\ of supporter of such a .. move.· <Ute. tA$Uiettc;~ Task Por«~s ''1:lmttag~ment\': :~« : actual n bod k . ....1 · . ,eone:tusl,ons sit .befur.e tUJ:· and ·~y·siet\1 *\'ktm~· ,,,wr:·'\-·~·.' u~es any · y , now wdy my . . ...... . ~..~ ... . .... . .. t..em. .. .-··~ .... f.rumds on Cam.pusdon\-t'Spd' · ·\Y..f\!Ja~jt~.~~~\~ ~Pl'?Q;*~ 11 ~· •• · .+{~: 'l&· i~ · ,-.t· a up'! , .,,,,, ;it·t~~a~,~~~t-~~~~~ilrtJ~~n,•·· •'i 'o~tf: . '•n\i~~t··a. lt .i,s sarety nmre c<lttvenimt wJu.~)J. ~dL ·~~;\'~('fr 'un.P3'4t' · ,, . · . to ~ear thtt Pt~siden_t s~~~ :\:~· ~~llbo~~ ··£E.~~%·Jll~ '~~~\> feelmg& on tne>matter/JJUtis\ftz· .•. . ,,,~~J},t~\t~¥k.~X. .r~'='=~';t~ . ,~-~~~-·-~ discussion of this issue. seems A ., ,en() 0 \.tfl&.· · .. ·· ', .];S( ' · #·~umJIY to be · dominated · t;;y· ··the ~~, , (~bf!ibly' · ~~~~~.~~xt ' .'tn 'tO ··· <first'' opponents ofthis move? 1 urge ~enate ~ee.~tn~). the Sen~t:Qts ··.··· slntWihg'kof ahlf'\'~- .. ·O.U$. all those who feel with me that (t.e.! _me) Will .bave to ~e a making equipmrent: • · cehecks. such. a move would be dec~s~on of some sort. It 18 that hurried and inoonl'plete. beneficial to the CoUege to dectston that causes me to Occasionally, films have had come forward and say so in write. , · to start late because· of this the open. If we got to the point The Student Forum has problem. Granted that these that a student cannot voiee an already held one relatively iricidents do not occur for opinion differing from that of unsuccessful open meeting to every showint: of ev.ery fib:n\ some of his teachers without discuss Task Force issues (23 but it happens often enough being afraid to be put under attended). lt i$ my intention to and inconveniences enough particular pressure with individually jump back into p eo p 1 e to warrant the fire! Yes, on Monday, Feb. 1 · · respect to his classroom camp atmng. performance, than Union is a 2l, at 7 :3(} p.m. in Fox Lounge Everyone who has attended lost cause, and we might as and again at 9 p.m. in a film over the past year well give up to discuss its Edwards Lounge, 1 . as.K for knows just how terri\le the future. l hope that in the heat your appearance armed with projection equipment is. The of an (unfortunately) political your mouths and opinions screen is old and dirty, making discussion nobody has to give about the issues. I have in the viewing of a film very up his right to disagree past attempted other such distracting. And God help you respectfully. discussions I was if you go to see a movie ifi· l certainly disagree with J. disa:ppointed. Don't disappoint Cinemascope; the second Underwodd and all those me again! screen to accomodate the wide whose views he represents and On athletics 1 have an open image is not even on the same I am offering some of my own mind - too open - the plane as the main screen, thus views for discussion. decision has too many sides, creating a thick l:llack line Sincerely, and will not be easy. On other about two~thirds of the way Peter Koeppel • 75 subjects (IEF to the Steinmetz across the image. re:geek To the Editors: Concordiensis has tecently come under attack from various sectors of the Union ,. college community. The curriculum) I also wish to hear The sound system is a and speak. Until Monday... disgrace. The overhead Sincerely. speakers garble works, making Bill Jenkins films in English sound. student disorder To the Editors: We would like to express both our disillusionment and Scandinavian. The stage speakers sound fine. hut the wires that make the connection to the system are held together with Scotch brand. tape (\frosty on the roll, invisible on the job\). The connections are tenuous at best~ and the sound will occasionally switch from one '\'t of speakers to . ' aa.ot Tl are pro Dis~ satl of ' hall\ dirt tllre cam was proj T dep tlla1 ext: wit! the inc1 faci in pro (}-f mel To I to Co; Co doi a.ct call tile ge1 pr< bet c:ot a de dai Ur OUI an1 thl M1 de: thf T te Cl b: is tl t< p Sl le ir \ e: ~ l tl \1 p e f a ~ s ~ ( ( I ( l ' . ' '> l .. -:j'

. another. The projectors themselves are antiquated and ·not properly maintained. Disgruntled viewers recently sat througbt an entire showing of The Great ·Dictator with half the image covered with dirt from the pr{).jeetor. For t11ree showinas af this film this condition existed. Why? There was no lens cleaner in the projection . ! The w e thing is deplorable. It· is bad enough that the chairs ln S.S. 016 are extremely uncomfortable without having to put up with the inadequacies and incompetence of the projection facilities. l would suggest that in their next budget, they propose a oomp1ete overhaul of tbeir system,·. and their method of operation. ... . Sincerely, Joe Millett· superb To the Editors: I would like tb take this time to point out ·to· the CQllege ·eommunity that the ·union College MaintenallCe Staff is doing · a superb job; · often aetiilg above and beyottd tl1e call of duty. More than once t,bey have asaisted Wrue in general physical plant problems; stemming fr!)lll heating system failures to collapsing rec()rd cabinets. In addition to this th.-ey perfcrm a daily battery of · servk:es at Union that are really outstanding 'both\ in · qlla::fltity and qlialitY, · W-e at Wme ·feet tbaf the Union College Maintenance Department dtserves so-me recognition for their Ctlnsistent work. Thanks again ·Maintenance. · Sincerely, Lloyd R:. Saberski General Manager WRUC . \JDI8sed tlae heat? To the Editors: As students wbo have taken terms abroad, we would like to comment on the article written by Debbie Lilie.n in last week's issue of Conrordieosis. We feel that tbe article does injustice to tbe value of the term abroad programs as well . as to the stu<lents who are enjoying and learning from tbeir experience in Bogota, as aU of the letters we received from our friends expressed much different sentiments from that of Ms. Lilien. When one decides to take a term abroad. one should go with an ope1twtniDded view- point. One should expect to enoounter a different lifestyle from that of the United States as the culture is different, as· well as the ec:Mtumic and soei~l structure. (After all, what is the purpoSe of a term abroad if not to learn the waYf! of another people and broaden one's soope'l) What we would iiko to upross to the · CdlfiU' community is tllat Mtk Lftlciis letter was extremely b~ ~ and shouid ttot be tabn ~a-the: opinion t>f the entm s«>-up in Bogota. Otanttd, Ms. Lilien is , entitled to her .own· opinioR. btJt it should not havo · been printed in the form it was. as it tends to imply tbat the whole group shares her sentiments -- not true!!!!! ·me article , . so.unded , mpre like an . ou,tlet for her gripes, rather than. an informational piece. Ms. Ulien states in . her article. ...Tbe. classes are · interesting although they are taught in Spanish aud many of · us miss dlost of what is being said.\ What does this say for her desire to team tbe language and take advantage of a program designed to enhance one's knowledge of language and civilization of this Spanish speaking country? We believe Ms. Lilien bas ·missed tile boat, or the purpose of a term abroad. (Maybe it w<>uld have been better if she had missed the plane!!!) Furthermt)re, if Ms. Ulien had wanted a vacation with all · the luxuries of a fit·st...class tourist, sbe shQuld have made reservations with_ .TWA for a.· trip to Bermuda or Miami. Sincerely; Sandy Adams Pat Gageam- Carol Milden. eoellt lteys c/o the Editors To tbe BOYS in Sfttion 9: for the study of Russian. Only . fiDt~year Russian is taught at U:oion. If a student wanfs to . continue. be takes Independent Study. The problem with an independent study as compare(! to a course with a name, is that graduate schQOis. summer programs or prospective employers cannot tell the content of an · independent study ·when they look at a student transcript. Lntermediate Russian .gives more information then Independent Study 90. As a first year Russian student. l would like to take second-year ~ussian next year. Professor LeClerc, is this asking too tnucb1 Sincerely, Name Witheld llpoo Request To lite; EditorS: On Tuesday mo:r.nin~ ··at 1:30 aJn .... tbe Union Colle~ · SectJI:'it,.y · Department · . o,ooe 'again e.tbibi_ted the .rna~ inco~petence wbieh is common among most lne'mbers of the (ofce. . After having endured your Due to a sti.oke of. lue.k.. a offensive behavior during the wouJd,.be burglar was seen past se-veral hockey games swingi~ . an unknown object (especially tile WilliaJlls game)~ (thought to be a sbov~l) I feel co~lled to express my against the window of a c:ar disgust and disappointment at parked. in the West parking your actions. I am referring. IQt. Upon noticing this from specifically. to your habit of his 4th floor window in West. chanting \sieve\ at the Charlie Flynn alerted thf.l opposition's goalie every time ,. owner qf tb4;:, car (Jim Lewis), we scote,41 &Qal. Heckli~ was . h I ii thA A•b n . ' ·practiced in hiab -sclrool, but it W ,~a~, :ves on\+\\'·. oor, o as to what was taking place. has no place on a college Murray Levison. Chuck campus. By now, most of you Ernes~ and myself were the are 20 or 21. a.nd ip a year or first on~ Qn the scene. We two you will be ~ving Union disc()vered this bearded, and joining the real world. It's drunkard .. townie\ sitting in time to grow up, and learn Jim's car .. Murray proceeded what successful interaction to grab. him and order him out with others is aU about. I of the car. At this time he told know you want to win; we all Murray tha:t it was his tar. do. But there are good winners . ·.Murray then pulled him out of and poor winfters. · You, the car, at which· time 2 \gentlemen are poor winners. security guards coincidentally You have yet to learn to accept showed up .(as the call to Hollo-w, P.ub is iii reply to the letter entitled Faculty Bebavior (February 9tb issue)~ To begin witb, the following darification needs to be made. .. :tb.; l~tter may have reflected the views of one anonymous individ-ual but does not express the views of the Dutch Hollow management. Rather, the Dutch Hollow believes that the Union College faeulty and staff are, for the tnOSt part, pleasant customers. An injustice has been committed by categorizing an entire profession according to the attitudes and manners of a select few. Further, to imply that the student members of the Union College community are either more polite or better behaved is botb untrue and unjust - they are as polite as any .f;lcult:y member here. Therefore, the management of tbe Dutcb Hollow Pub would like to take this . opportunity to publicly ap6logize to those faculty and $taft' who bave been slighted by last week's letter. You are welcome at the Dutch Hollow anytime and I wooid hope that you'll remain with us. Sincerely, Angelo Mazzone To the Editors: I want to extend my personal thanks to the entire Union oommunity for its very significant contribution to the 19n Cerebral Palsy Telethon. The time, efforts. talent and generousity of students, taculty, and staff joined to show our ·commitment to this wOrthy ~use. Sincerely. John Solazzo Career Counselor eo01e and visit victory gracefully. That goalie Hritv b be r· ........ sec- • ..., · Y mem · rs 0 ·nu To the Editols: on the ice is trying his best, fl t w had oo est · not Yet gone This letter is an ope· n letter and it's just unfortunate for th h) A h' · ruug · t t I& tune to the Union Community to him that he has to come up · t 1 8 be f approxuna: e Y mem rs o cotne and visit the revitalized. against a team of Union's .... _ A.& tl . a· L.... \K; .. w oor were own at tu... -me room. calibre. So why not applaud b · · e- those saves he makes? He's scene. ut smce secunty was For ping-pong addicts, there . there,· we let them take o-ver. . 1 • ..... -w tabl\\ up thAre on loan making a tremendous effort ·n. · b · .. '\' .__ \' \' 'u.ts was our is llllstan. as . f.r........ Bob on· ., .. oU and the and deserves recognition for -~ •\'~ -......... ..........,...., ..... - one . w uK. e .......... s .._.,_... to lfit..., ..... ural department. Also such. 1 don•t bear you yelling · · the ··•d be b ............. ~- ... .. sieve\ wben Steve Baker or quesuon . WO\Q! - u~a<-\ added are 4 new paddles and . without rei$training him. He an .. -p•·e supply of pm' g-pono Jim Baxter let a puck past be ...~~..,... ... .....t 1.. • d ~.. Cf.U-4 ~ co t n u..-.rw uOW · fUll-. he a..al'l,\ . them. We recogtlize their 'J b · · \' \\ b ff •- • ~~ Y was · Y trtppmg over a Throuoh . the investigative super e orts, so wt s show ..... _... d fal.l. 1.~ co snow ._.a. an mg on ws abilt'tv \'.f Mrs .. M .... ra we we- the same wnsideration for the r. s. · he 1 4!, .. ~... h 17 \ '\ ..... ,ace; vtlt t so e .:act . tuat · e _ .... A to in-.\'u 2 new quart\'r guy at the other end. 1 can ._ _ _, of 1;.-~ t...r ~ ~USll \ c t...~ reeaw l!VVle wu you to -m- to chal 1 en- even the only havt respect .or tm; J...t; that ..._ .,~ __ t. _....... • ·\C- ~eve . Uto was Ul,-IA as a S .... ,.._u;..;. .. ,_; ... pm' ball WJZa' rd\ Williams fans who didn't find _.......... H ..-...... 1.1 • ... ..,..._ '\ \\ -uu-... · <'· r.no;;n tom !reCUnty •Breakout,\ our feature TV it necessary to heckle our. that he. wu goin.g to.~· iUs u~ ti • k 'nd . players. Your immature . Je,gisttation? and . seCurity. ~~ eftrm or a qutc nu behavior is giving Union a bad . . sfnd~& tll<D chtmhf.qu~4d) aa4 . steady bands,. (hear that nameJ and many <>f us fans . ,,..alki'Wed.::hhn·«r climb into ellis . :·==~ ~=- :ru;;=:e~~ resent iL ·.· Cltt'{ajeeP)~ mm.a rutlfttt Qnc._.;.,. .. ...,,.,.. 1 --~1. 18 • .,...,_ I do commend your #Ctions · it · · · -·- .......... wli1a\. ~ in getting. the f.atl$ t<> ~P JUld·. ·, :~ .. ·$o. · ·this. ~e .~PUS favorite ... Foosban.'• ~~!}leir feet. ~ why ~ot . • di&Mtf ~fincompeteO£fHm t-e . = ~!:::0 w~r to PS:::l~t: wuuu-. your e orts ,,.t(J .,put tlt::teeuritY-. tbis-\0:1Wie~ __ .............. -....... ... ._<l - cheering FOR Union, and '*~t · · bte · · · t · -H-•-•J'\ 1 AGAINST the opppnent? ...... a · ·. '.to • '~<· .·. ~ ·· No cll:anp yon say? Starting Th \'11 n . ~. . t'--. ..... ,, . ~Rty •. ~ ...... -~;..... : .......... ~- C..:.&;. 2•1 -i.-n- -~at. . . en we a eotne·a-~ ~-Jl, \ ,.tt.mp{ to~ tt¥· ~ iu• ~hi$ · .. i;~':;;;.n~ie , t f':::m c:o~ ;;; a aame with a 1 = =;,·~ ::~;: · ··. ':.:~~~t::· .. :·~~~t. ~!~!:ents · , ;atlJOweu· this- man \to: 'Qio~ • , . ._ ·the t.ffiiM Community •. DOI'UMiaD.I·· To the Editors: · · ·. fi-.~ .about and thq&,~ · · · · · attil · to outsiders. · You at¢ . AI T...,._ .. · ~.~ .. :. .... am. _Y!.: , ;,Ufl&ed .to come up and have a . ··· ·····80od time since only through camp.ltS support c:an the game · .rMM '®ntinue to expand it& . &eilities.. 11 r.ont. from pre<:e~ing page group. IS this not 'llisninnnat1nn'' lienee lJnwn should scclo. to provtt.lc an honors pr.ogram a~ a responstbility to I ulttll the a~.:adcmic potcr.t!ab ot aH ul th students. I mplemen tat ion Prot. ~H:hols pr<lfl<l~_cs that each academic Utvtstt~n of the College he alltltted s~\ l:n co Ill ;,es and that Departnu:nt <. ·halrmcn must design t·ht: r~ogram hc~t sutled to thetr Ui\ IS!{>n':-; needs. Students should he nnulved 111 thts process also; the lkpartment l'hatrmctl should solint tht:H l>plnton~. t\li(·lthcr gt11dehn~ designed !(> meet t•hl' ha-ch.gruunds ol t·he greatest nuniber ol ~tudents ts that a lll!n1111Ulll ,,f three scn:hths ot the coursn 111 cad1 DtVISion would have to he ot such a nature that student:-. wtth an) maJor could take thcrn Stnce many studcnh \HJuld hr sensllive to the selc'L\lton ol ... honors students,\ at ..,.,,uld mah.l' more sense \ ... to creatL' honors courses lor whtch am student could register who nwt l'Crtam general rcljui rcmt•nts \ Dr. . Nichols su·ggests that the· program he called the \Steinmctf Curriculum.\ I he .'itudcnts who wtsh to register lor tim progra rn must meet these critcna: \a. A mlmmum 2.75 grade polllt average I or the prn-tuus th rce terms: b. A tormal recommendation ot the student by at least one .full-time faculty member; and c. A 500-word stat(;rncnt to be su hrn ittnl by the student explaimng hi~/ her interest in wantmg to enroll tor that partu.;ular course or cour'e seq uem:e .... I he final class rost~ r will he selected I rom among those who register by the facultv member involved and the oversight committee.\ I his oversight c·urnm1t tct:. Nichols proposes, should he appointt:d to set thl' pol1cy gutr,iclincs and to C\aluate the program and its dllc,·tm. It •· ... should contain ai least one faculty rnemha f1olll each DIVISion and at least •llle student, prcterahly one who has taken honors courses preVIou~l_:. ... Current grad1ng ~tandard;, would he applied in the program. but .:\i1chols suggest;, that \ ... the grade ol 'II' he lntr<>Juccd lur outstandmg performam:<: in the Stcmmctl Curnculum ·· Studc1\ts comrkt1ng at kast four Stcmrnctl courses !rom tW<) l>l\bllltl'i. It 1~ proposed, will he Jc,tgnatcd as •·• S t c 1 n rn .: tl S c h o Ia r s \ a t graduation. A tnst year tcntat:vc hudgct t.n the honors program would total $33,250. ·this I igurc would nsc: to $bl,500 tor the next vcar and then would remain at Hus level tor succeeding years. I he program would he tunded hnth l!ltcrnally. by applying to th.: Internal Education Foundation. ar1d externally, !rom hHJndatHms. govern1nciit s(lOfce<.;. ~H pnva!t.:' d<mors. The J<'uture . !his report has come ahout in a time when many qudenls arc expressing md!ltcrcnce to then situation at lJ nion and at a time when many impqrtant dec1sions about the1r future. the future of Union College, arc hc111g made. · Such a program as this one should prov1dc a top1c for discussion throughout the campus · and horcfully will lead to essential rro~ress in the cducatwn of students at lJ nion. Here at Union College it is possible to study · F rencn, German, Chinese and Spanish through tbe third year. Unfortunat~ly, this is not true To tiM lditon: The FOI«>wmg letter from . , the t»enagement- of the. Dutch. Sincerely~ Peter Cellucci Student Manqer Collep Game ·Room In ·addition to its ed.ucatwnal value to emolled students tn these courses, one of the most Slgmficant ellccts or the St..:inmctt Curriculum will he in the area o! public relations. Not only may Union use the Steinmct1 Curriculum to recruit students. but It also may usc the program to ra1sc tunds and generate cons1de-rahle puhhntv. Hyron N1chol'~ report will undouhtl·dl~ he \lt Interest to <!flY !>ludcnh \ho arc cunou' about th1' program I tner coptc\ ol the propo,al h.11c hccn put on IC\l'rH 111 '-,h,d.ter Library.

'' ,. y s y r s 11 cont. from preteeding page ----------continued from: -~ge 9 group, i~ th1s not Ul\t:rllll!natl(lll., Hence Unmn should ~\:d, tCJ prov1dc an honors program a.~ a respenstbtlity to lull dl tht: academic potenttals ot all ot 11s students. \ an.other. Tile projectors themselves are antiquated and ·not properly maintained. Disgruntled viewers recently· sat throught an entire showing of The Great Dictator with half the image covered with dirt from the projector. For toou showings of this film this condition existed. Why? There was no lens cleaner in the projection ~hi The wli~le thing is deplorable. lt is bad enough tllat the chairs in S.S. 016 are extremely Ul'lcomfortable witllout having to put up with tbe inadequacies and if1Competence of the projection facilities. l would suggest that in their ne.xt budget, they propose a complete overhaul (}\f their system, and their method o.f operaticn. To the Editors: Sincerely, JOt: Millett l would like to take this time to point out to the Coll¢ge Community that the Union CoUege Mainte11ance Staff is doing a superb job, often a.eting above and bey()nd the eall of duty. More than once they have assisted Wruc in general physical plant problems; stemming from heating system failures to collapsing record cabinets. In addition to this they perform a daily battery of services at Union that are really outstanding b()th in quantity and quality:' We at Wrut feel tha.f the Uni<>n College Maintenance Department deserves some recognition for their consistent work. Thanks again· Maintenance. Sincerely. Lloyd R. Saberski General Manager WRUC missed lhe hoat? To the Editors: As students who have taken terms abroad, we would like to comment on the article written by Debbie Lilien in last week's issue of Concordiensis. We feel that the article does injustice to the value of the term abroad programs as well as to the students wbo are enjoying and learning from their experience ia Bogota, as all of the lette.r$ we received from our friends expressed much different sentiments frcm tbat of Ms. Lilien. When one decides to take a term abroad, one should go with an open-minded view- point. One should expect to encounter a different lifestyle from that of the United States as the cuttur.:J is different, as well as the economic and soei~ structure. (After all, what is the purpose of a term abroad if ttll't to learn the ways of another people and broaden one's scope?} What we would like to expre:ss to the campus community is that Ms. Lilien's letter was extremely biased and should n<>t be taken as the opinion of the entire group in Bogota. Granted. Ms. Lilien is tmtitled to her own opinion, but it should not have been printed in tbe fQtm it was. as it tends to impoly that the whole group shares beT sentiments - not true!!!!! The article . :rounded. tn~.>re like an .QU.tlet • ~ ~ ... 'I' \'\\ ~ I' • • t \ 1 • for her gripes. rather than an informational piece. Ms. Lilien states in her artic&e, ·~The classes are interesting although they are taught in Spanish and many of ·us miss rftost of what is being said.\ What does this say for her desire to learn the language and take advantage of a program designed to enhance one's knowledge of language and civilization of this Spanish speaking country'! We believe Ms. Lilien has missed the boat, or the purpose of a term abroad. (Maybe it would have been better if. she had missed the plane!!!) Furthermore, if Ms. Lilien had wanted a vacation with all . the luxuries of a first--class tourist. she should have :made reservations with TWA for a trip to Bermuda or Miami. Sincerely. Sandy Adams Pat Gageant Carol Milden eoollt heys c/o the Editors To the BOYS in Section 9: After having endured your offensive behavior during the past several hockey games (espedally the Willia;ns game), I feel compelled to express my disgust and disappointment at your actions. l am referring, specifically, to your habit of chanting .. sieve\ at the opposition's goalie every time we sco~~Ui goal. Heckling was practiced in high school, but it has no place on a college campus. By now, most of you ate 20 or 21, and in a year or two you will be l~ving Union and joining the real world. It's time to grow up, and learn what successful interaction with others is ali !!.bout. I know you want to win; we all do. But there ate good winners and poor winners. You, .. gentlemen,\ are poor winners. You have yet to learn to accept victory gracefully. That goalie on the ice is trying his best, and ifs just umortunate for him that he has to come up against a team ol Union's calibre. So why not applaud those saves he makes? He's making a tremendous effort and deserves re~ognition for such. I don't hear you yelling \sieve'\ when Steve Baker or Jim Baxter let a puck past them. We recognize their superb efforts. so let\s show the same consideration for the guy at the ather end. 1 can only have respect for the Williams fans who didn't find it necessary to heckle our players. Your immature behavior is giving Union a bad name, and many of us fans resent it. I do commend your actions in getting the fans to clap and sUJ.mp their feet. So wby not channel your efforts into cheering FOR Union, and not AGAiNST the opponent? Then we·n all come· away from a game with a better feeling. Irene Sachs '71 uo russian 2 To the Editors: Here at Union College it is possible to study French, German, Chinese and Spanish through the third year. Unfortunat~ly, tbis is not true. for the study of Russian. Only first-year Russian is taught ~t Union. If a student wan~:> to continue. he takes Independent Study. The pmblem with an independent study as compared to a course with a name, is that graduate schools. summer programs or prospective empl<>yers cannot tell the content of an · independent study when they look at a student transcript. Intermediate Russian .gives more information then independent Study 90. As a first year Russian student, l would like to take second~year Russian next year. Professor LeClerc. is this asking too mucb'l Sincerely, Name Witheld Upon Reque~ To the Editors: On Tuesday morning, at 1:30 a.tn., tlte Union College Security Department once ·again exhibited the massive incompetence which is common among most members of the force,· Due to a stroke of· luck, a would-.be burglar was seen swinging an unknown object (thought to be a shovel) against the win<!ow Qf a car parked. in the West parking l()t. Upon noticing this from his 4th floor window in West, Charlie Flynn alerted the . owner Qf .the. car (Jim Lewis). w4o a~o,li:ves on tf;u.:.4:th.floor, as to what was taking place. Murray Levison. Chuck Ernest, and myself were the first ones Qn the scene. We discocvered this bearded, drunkard .. townie\ sitting in Jim's car. Murray proceeded to grab him and order him out of the car. At this time he told Murray that it was his car. Murray then pulled him out of the car, at which time 2 security guards coincidentally showed up (as the call to security by members of 4th floor West had not yet gone through). At this time approximately 8 members of . the 4th floor were down at the scene, but since security was there, we let them take over. This was our big mistake;, as one of the guards began to question the would,.be burglar without restraining him. fte then displayed bow drunk he really was by tripping over a snow bank and falling on his face, but the sole fact that he reeked of booze led you to ~lieve that he was drunk as a skunk. He then told security that he was going to get his registration, and security. sta.nding there dumbfounded, allowed him to· climb int() his car (a jeep) and make a run ior it. Due to this iMtedible dispJa .. y of incompet~ o..n the part or. ~eurity; this ''townie\' was able to ·escape~ · ihe s®Urity . guards made. no attempt to try to subdue .this man . ar bring . ijim . into custody.. ·Security, .however;· aUGwed· this matt to wove free~y about and thus e$C«pe. Sineerely. Al Tanneabaum phhposldon To the Editors: The fOllowing letter from . ,the .management- of the. Outch: . Holtow. Pub is iil reply to the · letter entitled Faculty Behavior (Februa,Jy 9th issue). To tlegin with, the following clarification needs to be made. The letter may have reflected the views of one anonymous individual but d~s uot express the views of the Dutch Hollow management. Rather, the Dutch Hollow believes that the Union College faculty ·and staff are, for the most part, pleasant customers. An injustice has been committed by categorizing an entire profession according to the attitudes and manners of a select few. Further, to imply that the student members of the Union CoUtge community are either more polite or better behaved is both untrue and unjust - they are as polite as any faculty member here. Therefore 1 the management of the Dutch Hollow Pub would like to take this opportunity to publicly apologize to those faculty and $taff who have been slighted by last week's letter. You are welcome at the Dutch Hollow anytime and I would hope that you'll remain with us. tbauks Sincerely, Angelo Mazzone To tbe Editor~ l want to extend my personal thanks to the entire Union c6mmunity for its very significant contribution to the 1971 Cerebral Palsy Telethon . The time, .efforts, talent and generousity of students, fuculty. and staff joined to show our ·commitment to this worthy cause. Sincerely, John Solazzo Career Couns~lor come and visit To the Editots: This letter is an open letter to the U ni()ll Community to come and visit the revitalized game room. For ping~pong addicts, there is a new table up there on loan from Bob Driscoll and the Itrtramural department. Also added are 4 new paddles and an ample supply of ping~pong balls. Through the investigative ability of MrS. Marra we were able to install 2 new quarter ~ to challenge even the Skellar's pinball wizards. '1ltflak.out,\ our feature TV ~me. calls for a quick mind· and steady bands, (hear that Pre--meds?) with the reward of · a free game for skilled players. Cruning Hext week is the c,:ampus favorite , .. Foosball ... What better way to sharpen your game for possible tournaments? · No change you say? Starting Monday., Feb. 21. change will be aYailabie from the attendant. These facilities are available to Union students and the Ut~ion Community. nut to outsiders. You. are 'Utged to come up and bave a good time since only through campus support can the game .toom contia11e to expand it~ facilities.. I rnp lementa t ion f>rot. ·:-..; tchob pmr•l'>C\~ that each academic l>t\d~Jun ol the College be allotted sc\ en cour ~cs and that Department Chatrmcn must design the prog• am ~c-.t sutted to then Dtv1s1on·~ necth. Students should he tmol\ed m thts process abo; the I krartmcnt Chanmcn ~hould solil'll thew optn10ns. Another gutdcltnt: destgned ro mc\!t the bad .. ground~ ol the greatest number ot \'tudents 1s that a nnmmum ot thm: sevenths ot the cour'c' m e.ach DtvtsiOn would have to he ot such a nature that studenh With an•,: maJor could take them Since many studenh v.ould he senstttvc to the sekcllon ot \honors st udcnts,\ It <A 11Uid make more sense ..... to creatt: honors courses tor which arl\ student could reg1ster who mrt certa1n general requircmenh.\ Dr. Ntchols suggests that the program be called the \Stcln!Tlct; Curriculum.\ The student!'~ who wish to reg1ster tor thl\' program must meet these critena: \a. A mmtmum 2.75 grade P<llfl t average tor the pre\ 1ous three terms; b. A torma I recommendation ol the student by at least one full-time faculty member; and c. A 500-word statement to be submtttd by the student ex.plaming hi~/hcr interest tn wantmg to enroll tor that particular course or course se4uence .... l he tina! dass ro~tcr will be selected I rom among those who register by t h~: faculty member involved and the ovcrstght wmmtttee.\ I hts oversight commt ttcc, Ntchols proposes, ~hould be appomted to set the poli~.:y guu,iellnes and to e\.tluatc the program and lb d1rn:tor. It \ ... should contam at ka!>t t•ne !acuity member !rom ca.:h lJtvtston and at least unc student, prclerably one who has takt:n honors courses pre> tou'-1) .\ Current gradmg ~tamiard~ would be applied in the program, but !\itchols suggesb th<~t \ ... the grade ol 'H' be mtroduceli lor outstanding perlormance in the Stemmct.l Curriculum\ Studmt~ comp!ctmg at icast tour Stein m~:tt courst:s trorn two Ut\t~wm, 11 1~ proposed, will be de~tgnated a~ \Steinmetl Scholars\ at graduation. A first year tentatiH' hudgd for the honors program would total $33,250. ·1 his figure <Aould rise to $61,500for the next year and then would remam at th1~ level tor succeeding years. I he pn>gram would he funded both mtcrn<~ll). by applying to the Internal Education FoundatiOn, and externally, from 1-ounda tion~. government sources, ~\r prhate donors. The l<'uture !'his report has come ahoutm a ttme when many students are exprcssmg mdtlterence to t~e1r situation at Union and at a time when many important decis1ons about their future, the future ol Union College, arc bemg made. Such a program as th1s one should provide a top1c lor discussion throughout the campus and hopefully w1ll lead to essenttal progress m the cducat 10n of students at Union. In addttion to its educatll>nal value to enrolled students 1n these courses. one of the most significant effects of the St.:i nmetl' Curriculum will be in the area of public relattons. Not only may Unton use the Stei nlllet; Curnculum to recruit students, but it also may usc the prog.-am to raise funds and generate constdcrablc puhhc1ty. Byron Sincerely, . Ntchol's report wtll undnuhtcdl} be of mtcrc~t to any studenb '\ho are cunou~ about tht' prt1gram I hrce cop1e~ ol the propo,al h.11.c Pettr CeUu(ei Student Manager College Game Room been put on rc~el\\l' tn ~h.JIIcr L1hrary

Page 12 WiD the person who found a brown leather wallet in my gym locker on Sunday evening please return it? I am a diabetic and need the address to . get my insulin before I go into shock. The address is in the wallet. Please return it to Security or Box 1474. No questions asked. FOUND - 1 silver pierced earring inlaid with turquoise. Fropt Science & Engineering - looked like it had been there awhile. Show me its mate and you can have it. Call Jessica 370-6654 or Box 2318. LOST - 1 silver (costume) clip on hoop earring. Lost Tues., Feb. 8. Really appreciate getting it ·back. Call Jessica 370- 6654 or Box 2318. SPLENDIFEROUS! You have a ride to NYC Fri., Feb. 25? If you have room in your car, I would like a ride there and will share costs. Please call Sue in room 318 - 346-9220. RIDE WANTED to Rochester February 18, Friday. Contact: Jane 370- 6522~ HELP!! I nefti someone to type .two term papers (10-22 pp) before March 7. Would prefer someone on campus. Must do neat work. If you can do it, .contact box 1738 as soon as .possible. LOST - a silver ring with. Hebrew lettering; reward for its return. LOST - A silver ring with Hebrew lettering; reward for its return. If found, please can Jay at 346-2718. FRIDAY MUSICALE: On Friday, Feb. 18, trombonist Ira Slavit, accompanied by pianist Arthur B~agg, will perform a concerto by W.A. Mozart. The ~ital Will be held in the Arts Building Rm. 202, and will begin at 12:30 p.m. All are welcome. WANTED: an apartment, close to campus, for the spring term only. If a place is available (or if someone in your apartment will be on a term abroad or dropping out, etc.) - please contact Joe Millett at either 37()..4205 or 37()..6153. FOUND: 1 scarlet crocheted scarf in the Cabaret Room. To claim, please call 6772~ LOST: Keys. Key chain says Morse Typewriter Co. 40.0f Crescent St., New York, NY About 9 keys on chain. Contact at 346-9422. Reward if .found. CONCORDIENS!S, Feb. 16, 1977 . - . . ' . . ' - . ' clasu.ifieos The Cam·pus 'Voice., Union's Investigative Newspaper, held election Monday night. The new editors are: Brad Barry, Hope Fablall, Jon Kurz & Bill Malnick. Those i111erested in joining the staff and/ or writing articles sbould contact Hope at 6480 or Bill at .SS46. REMINDER: pick up your applications for the Orientation Committee in Student Activities. We need new idea~ and people who want to work, so get off your duff, go to Student Activities and fill in an application. RIDE NEEDED: Back to Union on Sunday, Feb. 20 from L.I, N.Y.C., or Queens. Call Rich377-75U. RIDE WANTED to Long Island Feb. 25. Contact Rhonda. 346-9848. RIDE WAN1ED to . Boston (Tufts University) Friday, Feb. 2:5. Contact Barb 6143. RIDE NEEDED to Colgate University, Friday, Feb. 21. Contact Karen at 370- 6143 or 206 West. LOST: A SMAhL SILVER RING SOMEWHERE BETW·EEN Gillespie St. Gate and the Library, Return to box 1133. ATTENTION! :Everyone go to the Assumptionjl:ufts. baslcetball games Feb. 25,26. FOR SALE: 1970 VW - very reliable. For more infocaULibl>y 370-6566. To the other owmers of V AR: A meeting will be held tbis Thursday; 12:30 in the Pub. We have g()'t to get going. A ALL PERS()NALS MUST BE TYPED IF THEY ARE . TO BE PRINTED Teach Your (]Jiildren, take 1016. You were still the best. Wlien do we start the road tour? Freddy: Steady, erudder, only four more weeks. If you liked the ne:rdalarm, you'll love nerd repellant! Yes, i:t's finaUy here, the . hottest weapon in :the war against uerdity yet. Comes in convenieDt 12 oz. spray cans, and doubles as .a beverage, in a piru:h. Bu.y ·six, it's cheaper, a!!d drive a nerd away·. · today. Available in your local supermarket today. SV - Well, who are you already? I liked the mushy oatmeal and Carl Sandburg was great. But, who are you'/ 408 West For your new TV ratings send a self· addressed stamped' envelope to Box 109 ES- 20 sucks! Freddie -. How much is \just one shade lighterT' Moze Second H11111d TV for sale. Hardly used, never abused. All original parts, Floor model. ·Contact second floor Richmond. Deu Flylna Dutchmen ...- Thanks for your reply, it was great. We definitely will have to get together some time. Box 163 leemm: Your ability and your Capri's agility may make 360 skids fun, buy my Celica 's studded snow tires didn't leave me in the middle of the parking lot. JAF lee-an: 1 hear that J()hnny Rutherford is l99king for a partner, but he really doesn't \scout\ in front of Memorial Chapel at 1:30 a.!D. on Monday mornings. KFI: Your celebration on the occasion of your initiation rites (Jan. 22) was an outrage! MSM - see you tomorrow; i love you -HL Dummy - ljust don't know. creep To Andy K.: The sky may be starless The night To Andy K: The sky may be starless The night may be moonless But deep in our hearts there~s a glow For deep ·in our ·hearts we know that you Jove us Because you have told us so. Passionately yours, V ., C., IUid S. My apolo&Jes to Coach: He doesn't want just aJ!Y boogers, only freshly harvested ones. Sorry about that old boy. Rip Van Winkle ..., I promised to stop after 3 valentines but i had to inake it four. One for each year until - All ·my love, the cry baby L & L - Thanks for the best Valentines Day ever. - rumph·ina Ralph - Myrtle is safe and happy in her new home. . ·{ ; J - Happy 211 Love, An Cblp - To a very good buddy Happy 21! _.. Love, \the girls\ To our seerd Valentine: Thank you so m11ch for the beautiful roses. It wa~ a woi!derful thing to do and we love YIJU for it!!! - Marla & Julle PhD -. Happy Birthday - Y o.u handsome devil you! - Love, the &irl~ of 112 T.V.'s repaired - old, us.ed or new - contact Bo:x 163 \ Tom - Jealous of Hvey? Deu D•d - Happy Valentine~s Day - Love, tbe J(apl1mo!s ' Groot ...... The weather's grell,t. Wish you were here. We miss you. ~ Love, Rene, Tophs, Potty SLS - Have to get your father's ap{'rovaL MBG Bobi, Look over here! No; dammit, not up there. Here! Yeah; right. Well, now that I've got your attention, let me introdu!)e myself. I'm the persol)al that you wanted in this column. They all hqpe you'll like me. 'They' who? Oh. yeah, l wa~ put here by the Let's All Send ijobl A ·J>e.rsonal Fan Club. I'll'be seeing you, il~s all ov~r now, baby Blue No.tes. MSP (nice. try, tho11gh ... ) Hey you &uys, - how about leaving us .alone for awhile, 'okay? It~s reaily .not funny, How would like being dead1 G~y & Freddie Oiip: Even though I dori't come up, I still wish you Happy Birthday. C.i.. Chuckles: I knllW you'd be happy to see another ·personai, so here it is.' C!lm Br~mer: Warning: you job is in danger!!! ](atll: The sooner the better? Phil: Happy Birthday! C.L. I.J.G.: Thank you fonhe card. C.L. Ria: This is the last one, but' it says the. most important of any of them. - Ready? HAPPY CHINESE NEW YEAR!!! the end. Laps , To the &uys In 251 Davidson - Tban:ks for the-personal, bu~ I don~t get it .. Miss you all, but glad I'm here. Love, Ali :Roo, Congrat~lations!, Miriam Next year you could be on a scholarship. An Air Force ROTC two-year scholarship pays your tuition and gives you a $100 ·a month allowance. And it picks up the tab for books and lab fees, as well. Mter college, you'll receive a commtss1on in the Air Force... go on to additional, specialized training ... as you get your start as an Air Force Officer. There'll be good pay and res.ponsibility, and lots of other benefits... and a great opportunity to serve your country. It all starts right here- in college -in the Air Force ROTC. Look us up ... see what we have to offer, and show us what you can offer in return. Ca)ltain Gary L. Fullmer AS & RC Rm 317 RPI Ph()ne: 270-6236 Amlle: Thanks for the <;ake. It really put Ute icing 0!1 my weekend, ma Stel'e & Debbie K. Couldn't you find a better i!lUtualinterest than Rugby. box 881 MHR ..- Don't worry about 'it. A 1.67 keeps you humble. JA - Start worrying! A 1.33 makes you humble. · .. US - No, tltat's not what the ·doct9r said it was. ~ JA ..,.. But an ·inch and a quarter has always kept you happy. Ifs not the meat it's the motion. M•u Brier: You're such a stud. Ob wbere1 Oh where? Has our little bell gone? Fourth Floor West Glellll, KaUe, jenny; (:ari, Mike, Dee Dee, .J).ve; ·Pa!D, etc. GUESS MY IDENTITY OR I'LL liELP YOU PIE! KL - Here's wishing happy YD to the MR FORCE kid. Afrtt-Disiac Fourtb Fioor West Happy Valentine's Dayoneand ail. G~enn Kt - <;:onsra,tulation~ on that not-sQ- qipid recovery and <tS for your previous question the answer is \occasionally and I love'1t this way.\ .-ob Colao - You are defioitely and precisely.a DISHRAG. Do11111 ·P. - I love you, the bi& G l)eU ProfeiiOt Prmper: This letter is quite serious We thought you used to like us But yQur behavior's been mysterious We've tried to learn our ECO Studied C plus J plus G But your little quiz just killed: us 'Qluse we. didn~ kitow MPC Please.go a little slower Chapter 14 just flew by We're still back on No. 12 A® we could simply cry 'Cause Welre not all ECO majors We can't take much more ofthis stuff To your retirement. fund we'll contribute 'Cause ECO 10 has had enough! pa No hard feelings; we're willing to .give you another chancel D'~ POBP, Congratulations on Last Night's dinner performance. Quelle golite . Welcome to the human race. KllCP up the good'wotk. Your mentor ' ' ,-;;:o.i ,_,~_;. ~1 Hey Ill you Union Jazz Ensemlillsts - is it ture that a nude yoit will be performing at your concert~ - An Interested oiJ.ierver Danks everyone for the best birthday ever! I'm still smiling. Love, Sharon Marie &t Franny, Thanks you're the .greatest! LOve, Norma 2.18 - We'll have to do it again sometime. - 2.19 • Dear Coquette & Sleeze - Fifst of all, its Roto not. Rotu; Secondly, it's Rotondi's Luncheonette, not Diner; 'Thirdly, no one gets a free meal at Rotondi's until Rotondi gets a freebie at either Richmond or Smith t -M (PS only 2 more weeks .now!!) li&er - How come only you and the Baron ~isa,ppear on weekends? Tim Pure Prairie l.eauge, Why don't you call yourself the Pee-Pee League. This name is more becoming of you. By the way, \Keep on singing - in vain\ Okay! A friend of AmyT. Prof. Hayes - \Da Da\ Chern 12 Friday FOR LIQUOR AND WINE Try Jake Lip stein's 464 State Street 374-1888 BUSINESS OPPORTUNITY Stuff [nvelnpes $25.00 PER HUNDRED Immediate Earnings Send $1.00 To: £nvelopes Dept. 339A 310 Franklin Street' _. , .... , . . , .. _ . B~ston,M.ass. ~2110 . ~--------------------------------~---------·-··- .. ----··-''----~------------~\ Air Force ROTC-Gateway to a Great Way of Life • U«l~ taken tr \Berkie': proporti guys w' Brass-hu Stud: INTEN~ Uillo11 ;Jgain o~ Fluidl Paul play Ch; fred Ensemb nigh• t' Bassfor< Hey.~ Tom .... No.: Jo!m, you. I I than II .. .. UJE recepuo Hey Rmeme Hey: (you WI loose a handlin. is a tigb Deu approa, exhibiti several from t~ plumbb to dest1 -Ru Jolul .use as trumpe1 Gumbo Wad the con Deir B~da from, 'Trues' Tllllelt BaWl thebes (albeit. birthda Dati .. Deu you fr< \s less H'm 01 .... spring Joe M Lubart highly his me trout. wombs OK?- To person same. and ; Copyri the B Millett off. C; names Joseph court publici il JOS! cross t' Milt a colic prorni1 time ' hocke3 (Pre-S. what a P~••l • I I I • i I I I • I L

as I di d is . t ' CONCORDISNSIS, Feb. 16, 1977 Page 13 U«l~ Freddie: We the un<lersigne<l have taken the sad· task of nptifying you that \Betide's Law\ that range is inversely proportional to height does not hold with guys who own silver trumpets. -The Brass-holes Stud: Repeat after me: intense, INTENSEI!t. Uidon ,Jazz Enaunble - We are once 1,1gain OI~e. Friday night we wiil rule! Paul .... Fir~t we'll operate, then you'll play chameleoll - Kim to'el'l!ll!li.JII ' Pops - .I hear the weather in lnnsbruck is great in the summer! Wad' ~ How does it blow in the windy city? Mike and F;d Xaviera ...- Best Valentines Day present I ever had! ~ Not J.M. ·Brownie - When's the next showing? I need ~teaqy. hours. -.Pep~odent Michele and Kathy .-. How are your comic books? Chris Delll)is - Stop polluting our hallway - Jamie I! :D.D • .,. Thank you. !love you. - Terri Pete - I think you are too. Really. Terri Donna - What was that about warm coke? Jdf P ..... I had a great time Saturday night. Thanks so mucb!! - Karen · ·Cindy - The Skellar again\! Patti ..... What is it about people who want to go to the computer center'? ~ 1(1ren Donllll - Your shipment of coke is on the way. Until then, how about Tab'! 'Wollld that work? Dear Debbi - I feel compelled to tell you this. Lately I have found your overt behavior to be constricted by your limited perspective of reality. It seems to me that your actions are dictated not by a sense of control a·nd choice with respect to possibility but rather your behavior is a manifestation of the faJ·se self that you present to the outside world. Debbi - You are being inauthentic. But ... \don~t Jet it bother you ... \ \:lust be spontaneous!\ With all due love and respect -from \one four- eyes\ to .another Nancy -. Your secret pal loves yOI! !! ! Mary -How'& Tirh\l All Union Guys David - So l fall asleep alot. I'm tired. How about tonight'! L.W. - or Prince Charming - We heard that you were available for some passionate discourse and the writing of ten page papers - Tbe Click WHERE FOR ART THOU CERVANTES? We had such a flaming personals affair! To the s«M:alled King James - My reply to your challenge has been posted all over campus. I am still waiting for an answer. Algernon PbU - Happy Birthday, get it up for gay love - Love ~ HH Boyle - What are you going to do for a job next term? fred Berkowitz; of the t:Jnion Jazz Ensemble, chews.·a dozen stale bag~ls every nigh~ to. strengthen his chops. Charlie Bassforci chews two dozen, Whippet ;Kid ..,.. Lay off the whip cream or el.se you'll wiild ·up looking like the seargent's wife -.a Friend Patti - Did you se.e the resemblance between your real S.V. and your supposed S.V.? Sorry for the mistake. -Karen Deilr Seeret Valentine - I want to ,know who you are. -Barb 416 · Patti .... One more week until the Cuban Missile Crisis returns!!!!!- Jenny Hey. MOORJileat - Happy \Fwentieth Tom - If you hit yours, I'll hit mine. ..;.No.1 Jolui, I hate you. I despise you, I loathe you. I hate. you more than 1 hate.. more than i hate Brussels sprouts! - Maynard F. UJE - Special ·Cheese and liquids reception.afterthe concert. - <;randm!l. Hey Guys.- Women love musicians!!! Rmemebet there's a crcsl;i:ndo at H Hey Berkayoltz - I not only hate you (you wucldn' trumpet nerd) I hate thoSe loose and fancy-free yoits you're always handli .. g arounc! with. The only good yoit is a tight yoit. · · Dear Thomas NalU 011 the approaching .Friday evening tonal exhibition· I am ·expecting to aurally detect several intense a11d exciting effects exuding from the depths of your extendable brass plumbing, or we will send Paul Stefek out to destroy yo)l With his most intense yoit. - R.u loba · (Doc) ... Wha~ did you say you .use as poliSh .for the inside of your trumpet? And I don't mean Doctor Gumbo's magic, chop juice - Ru Wuek!n' Freel - Why don't you go into the comer and play with youryoit. Dear Laura - This is a belated \Happy Birthday\ personal. You know who it's from, so don•t play dumb. Leave two 'Trues' next to your door. - World's Talleat Elf. · . .. c . Hawaii - as 1 11m financially ruined, the best I could do was to use my official (albeit minimal) clout to wish you a happy birthday. Happy birthday. ..,. Mr. Deati~oa Dear Carol,n - Happy birthday to you from youF brother. I figured that this \s less expensive than getting you a card --!,l'm only kiddm~. See· you durin!il. my spring break. - Love, fodd· Joe Millett - for God's sake~ don't tell L)lbart that I'm responsible. [q( all those ~8hiY. derogatory personals· comparing his mental stature to tfutt of tile average trout. He has all the person/ility of a wombat, true, but just don't part your lips, QK?- Getk To aU those persons who sign their personls Mo or Moze or variations on the same. The words Mo, Moseph, Moses, and all permutati.ons of .those are Copyrighted iD the United S\tates and all the British Commonwealth by Joseph Millett. M!lrcas Registradas. U.S. reg. pat. off. Capisco? Anyone caught using these names or anything lil<e them who is not Joseph Millett will be subject to a lengthy court battle and some rather niessy publiciey. Anyone using these names who is Joseph Millett - well, he has his own cross to bear. Got it? Good. Mike, Drew, Brien, md Dll!lily, What a collection of studs . you are. Brien if I promise not .to wear so much makeup this time will all of you meet me after the hockey game this Saturday for warm,ups. (Pre-Saturday night warm~up, that is,) Boy what a time we'll have. Xaviei'il GH - Thankx - The five of us 1 11!11 pr,,..-ed to offer the bodies of ten maidens ofhis/ber choice to the individual who eomes up wi~h a completed thesis in political science (footnot·es and bibliogFaphy must be included). NAS ..- We doll ~t know what .to do with yo!!, or wltat to do without you. Sorry about the Valentine Day harangue. Rotondi is hereafter awarded .the \pint· sized man-of-tb·e-year a ward.\ Conptulations squirt! Fran - award winning performance - tile ~ean people J .,.. I haven't been hiding. I miss you too. D.C.W.- PardQn my· stick! Sue .... Thanks for every.tJlipg - Patti and Laura Mark B. - Aggression will only come with practice ~~Naive and lnnoeent\ Peft(HUIII are the next best thing to being there. Dear Camp1111 5upid - Which B. or not whic~ B, tllat is the .question - Strawberry Short~ke and Chicken Soup Coke -. Get CfllShes much?!~ Blainz Dear .Mia· Grayso!J - How's Cary? ~ Bacall's Namesake Moze - For your next birthday we're giving you the key to the . second floor Steinmetz Conference Room A Itelatlon and her Roomie Min Grayson - How much do you want for the Copeland (Kaplan) autogn~ph? - B a11d J · Joanie - Change your. mind much'? - Bllinz . 1st Floor Fox South - Friday night at9:00 it'.s the Union Jazz Ensemble. Dig it. R. Turkil~ .-.. I promise they won't laugh at you if you go .to the Jazz concert Friday night at 9:00. P. Prosper - Your motller wears army boots- Eco 10 Sara - I promise I'll avojd all snowbanks! Donna G. - One month •until your birthday- Thanks for being my valentine! Patti - How do you spell your last name? Is it M-0-R-?-N 4th Floor West - Y o.u~re all the best. \Thanks for being the greatest and for touching my life - Laura ·Janie - Happy Birthday:! Remember, :you've .got a friend oil the 4th flQor who really.cares. - LEM Harris - Happy Birthday! It couldn't have happened to a nicer guy- Laura POBO - you eat like a pig and smell like one too. When will you learn table manners? Here is an. invitation: join the human race. - a ·fellow diner P.S. - Ten down and ready for more! Good show. DB - So wben were the sugar pops b\ltter? Sidney - HAPPY BIRTHDAY!!! Why- . Hershey With Nuts ._ Happy 21st I Debbi _. How about some more bones sometime? Can I cllew on yours next time? You passed up a good one last night! - Your fellow oh what a relief it is!! Combsie - STOP SINGING - Rich and Paul ~······· .. ·····················~················~·····························••.; • • I BUY ONE OF OUR GREAT $1.99 OR $2.99 SPECIALS I i AND GET ANY $6.98 LIST ALBUM FOR ONLY: I • • • • I $3 7· g· Saleends I i • ·. · · Sun., Feb. 20 I • • • • • • • • • • i Rolling Records 1 • I I = Mady - A toast to \no place\ is no longer appropriate. Any suggestions? - Tam Fruf - Perhaps persistence pays off!!! Dearest Rich - When you couldn't show for the .first taping I sa.id, \That's okay, Glenn said he's working IS hours a day.\ When you couldn't show for a rehearsal I said, \That's okay, Glenn said he's working 18 hours a day.\ When you couldn~t show up for the show itself I said, \That's okay, Glenn said he's working 18 hours a day.\ When you cut down myself, my friends, the radio station and even Glenn (who apologized for you throughout the entire ordeal) I noted the resemblance between you,.and; a pile of dung. GJenn -.. An inch and a quarter keeps you humblest. - Jenny and Mike Bob P. - While sitting home alone the night of the Winter Carnival, I wondered· why you hadn't asked me to go. Maybe it's because you don't know Who I am. Then again, maybe it's my breath. Sigh. - Your S.A. Fuad - Do you always dance on tables after sniffing glue\! - DUCO Dou& ...... are you sore? The Reverand INTERESTED IN BJORHYTHYMS? Contact Dave Pedowitz, Box 466! Quickly! I Dave's Squire Shop GIANT WASHINGTON'S BIRTHDAY SALE ALL WINTER SUITS Reg. to S22o.oo ON SALE $89.22 LEATHER TRENCH COATS Reg. to ·$225.00 ON SALE $89.22 .................................................. Dave's Squire II LEVI CORDUROY COATS Reg S45.DO ON SALE S1822 WINTER JACKETS Reg. to S90. oo ON SAlE $24.22 428 State St. i 527 UNION ST. 374-3430 I • Open 9-9 Mon.-Sat. 11-6 Sundity • I Limit 1 coupon per person i ... ?. !?.~ .. . ~~ .. ·~~·---~··--·--··········~··· ... ··········~··~·~······ .. •••• .. ···i Tues. & Thurs. till 9:00 pm '.

Page 14 CONCORDIENSIS, Feb. 16. 1977 •. ' • • • • •• '' it • ' • . ' ~ ' ' . ' ' . .. . calenoar THURSDAY FEB. 17 ' J.V. Basketball, Union vs. H. V.C.C., 8:00 P.M. Away. Free Film -- \Zero for Conduct.\ Sponsored by the Public Relations Committee, 8:00 P.M., Soc. Sci. Room 016. Plaeement - Sign up for First- Political Forum Meeting to Investor'$ Corp. coming 2 I 24, discuss future lecturers, films, and Lookin~ for a,ny major for activities including plans for a marketing area in investment · symposium \National Health business. More details in the Insurance.'' - All Welcome. 4:30 ·Placement Office~ 3:00 P.M., P.M., - Political Science Office. Placement Office tfiae-re IS a differerace!t! PREPARE FOR: MCAT• DAT•LSAT• SAT GRE • GMAT • OCAT • CPAT e VAT Over 38 years of experience and success. Small classes. Voluminous home study materials. Courses that are constantly updated. Centers open days and w~ekends all year. Complete tape .facilitii!S for review of class lessons and .for use of supplemefltary materials. Make-ups for missed .lessons at our centers. ECFMG • FLEX NAT'l MEDICAL & DENTAL BOARDS Flexible Programs & Hours Our broad range of' programs provides all umbrella·of testing know· how tl)at enables us to offer the best preparatmn avatlable. further 1mprov1ng the ondovodual course you ve selecled. Bklyn. 212e336-5300 Manhattan 212-683·5005 Lone Island 516-538-4555 New Jersey 201-846·2662 OutSide I;IY Stale Only ~~~~ree 800·221·9840 een ............. us totes •• fl. JllljD~ONALCE~RLTD cliB 1675E 16SI·Bklyn TEST PRE~~ij! }~J~ SPECIAUSTS SINCE 1938 FRIDAY, FEB. 18 Women's Basketball, Union vs. Green Mt., 6:00 P.M., Away. Planning & Priorities Committee Meeting All members of th.e Union community are invited. 12:.15 P.M., Library, Pbi Beta Kappa Room. Friday Musicale - witb Ira Slavit, trombone and Arthur Bragg, piano. 12:30 P.M., Arts Building, Room 202. Seminar - by Alan Maycock of Merck, formerly of Union's Chemistry Dept., will discuss \Rational Design of Enzyme lnhibititon.'' 4:30 P.M.. Sci. Center, NW 116. Philosophy Dept. Seminar ~ Speaker: Stuart Spicket, University of Connecticut Health Center; Topic: \Gerontogenetic Mentation: Memory Dementia and Medicine in the Penultimate Years,\' 3:00 P.M., Humanities, Room 213. Before you take a job, find out where that job can take you. Pla~ement Sign-up for Texas Instruments, coming 2 I 24. New . Division recruiting ~ Semi-conductor production and engineering. Looking for BS / MS, E.E.'s, and BS / MS computer science. 1:30 P.M., Placement Office. Joint Colloquia of the Physi~s !lRd Mathematics .Departments - Speaker: Or. R~:mald Ming, Mathematics Dept.,, · Union College; Topic: \Catastrophe Theory.\ 3:30 P.M.,, Hailey Hall,. Room 20.1. Administrative and Engineering System11 Colloquium, Institute of Administration and Management - Speaker: Prof. Donald S. Holmes, Union College; Topic: PIMS: An OnLine Data llase fo·r Corporate Planning. 4:00 P.M., Bailey Hall, Room 207. :Christian Fellowship Meeting - 'Bronn~:r House; 7:30 P,M. P. _ Y .E. is collecting papers Friday, Feb. 18. Be sure that your collection box is full. Union Ja.zz Ensemble CoJtcert - Spanning the years of big band music with selections from the swing, popular, and rock eras. Free. 9:00 P.M., Memorial. Chapel. There's a difference between a job open- ing and a career opportunity. · nolog.y, sales, accounting, actuarial 1 invE::~stm.ewuli[, and many other areas. A career at Prudential means a chance to expand your horizons, advance without jumping from company to company; and develop to your full potential. We've got long-term career opportunities in underwriting, claims, applied computer tech- A Prudential representative will visit your campus soon. Check with your Placement Office to arrange for an interview. If you're looking for a job that can take you somewhere, think about Prudential. You might say-the opportunity is wide open.(]i PmdentJa/ ........ ':: An Equal Opportunity Employer M/F • < 1 t :J f • I, t f. .• ~ .I·,..~ J I' :1 1 '• • • \ • I f i,' ) ·, ., , . ' ' I \:•.!<,' .. ) .*.·~,::..,·.,.~ ~·..r.' .-,'..,).~ $- •t I( \.\ . ..- ~.~~,'-~·A·\ Chinese New Yur'$ Celeb.ra.ti~.n ~ demonstratiqn~. exhibition, slide show, Chinese games and r~freshments 8 p.m. - midnight; Strauss Lounge. SA.TURI)AY FEB •. 19 J.V. :Basketball ~ Union vs. Cortla!ld, 6:00 p.m., Memorial Fi!!ldhouse. Varsity Basketball - Union vs. Cortland Ice Hockey - Union vs. Queens. 3:00 p.m., Achilles Rink. Wrestling - Union vs. St. Lawrence:, 2:00p.m., Away. V~usity Swimming -Union vs. St. Michaels. I :00 p.m., Foote Memorial Pool. Track, - RPI Invitational. 4:00 .p.m .• Away. Fac~lty SquiQre Dance Jointly. with_students. $.50charge. 8:00-11:00 p.m., Old Chapel. Film Ciommitt~ Presents - \Taxi Driver.\ Martin .Scorese directed Rebert DeNiro as Travis Bickle, a strange New York cabbie. This controversial blockbuster presents as stark a view of the seamy side of New York as has ~ver been filmed·. 7:00, 9:00, r l:OO p.m., Soc. Sci. Room, 016. Men•s V:~trsity Tennis .... team tryouts. lO a.m. to 1 p.m. Alumni Gym. SVNDA Y, FEB. 20 Film Committee presents Taxi .Driver, 7, 9, H p.m. Soc. Sci. Rnt 016. · WRUC will present a special on the music c0f Franz Schubert. Professor Gus Lewis of the Physics Dept. will host this special. ll a.m. to I p.m. MONDAY, FEB. 21 Women's Basketball - Union vs Colgate. 4 p.m., away. Physics Dept. Lecture - ''llow to Communicate wnh [.\tra- 1 cr.rcstna! lntdligenn:~\ Dr. Kenneth Schick, Ph: ~rc•, Dept.. U nron College; 4:.~0 p.m .• Hailey Hall, Rru. 207. (Ret.reshments at 4 p.m. in Scr. Center Rm. l'liJUJ. Free Film - I he Japanese classic, lkiru, (to live). Sponsored by Comp. Ed. 7:30p.m., Soc. Sci. 016. ·Intellectual C~Jbaret - \Can Union Students Change Union?\ Strauss Lounge. 8:30, co- sponsored by PAG. TUESDAY, FEB. 22 Film Committee presents - On The Waterfront, Ella Kazan's classic about corruption on the New York docks swept every major Oscar. An all-star cast features Marlon Brando, Lee J. Cobb, Rod Steiger •. Karl Maiden and Eva MaJ:ie Saint. 7, 9, II p.m. Soc. Sci. Rm. 016. Game Night at the Cabaret .... 9 p.rn.-l a.m. Cabaret Room. Wome~·s Ice Hockey - Union vs Williams. 4:30 p.m., Achilles Rink. WEDNESDAY, FEB. 23 Varsity Basketball - Union vs Binghamtom, 8 p.m. Away. Varsity Swimming - Union vs St. Lawrence. Away. 4 p.m. PYE meeting - 7 p.m., Strauss Lounge. · All students and especially sophomores are invited to meet with Bill Jenkins, your · sophomore representative to the All-College Senate. Discussions wfll be held at fox Lounge at 7:30 p.m. and at Edwards Lounge at 9 p.m., on Monday, Feb. 21.' Please bring · any ideas (especially Athletic lask Force Qpinions}. .. .......... - ~ ...... . \ • • b) I Pill strt ~ea Di~ bQ1 (ll bel Ri1 so triJ Iii~ aw su OJ trtJ Cl Fe sec Br an ag Ire SCI bt th til m Ci fir wi an Tl fir d In R: th 01 bf m F: Jc be st A s • a1 a1 hi u in aJ R p gl ll a1 n L sc rc sl p it

CONCORDIENSIS, Feb. 16. 1977 Page 15 sports Union Pucksters lm.prove Record by tOM PAHAJ!ILL For Dut~hmen hockey fans the past-week's action.only served .to strengthen the belief · that their team is a dominating. force in Di:vision H. The Gal'llet trounced bQtb Williams and Plattsburgh H ( ... 3 and ll-2) respectively> before a packed house at Achilles Rink last Wednesday; and 50 or so .. true blue fans\ that made the trip to PlattsbQrgh Saturday night. The fans were treated to an awesome display of Dutchmen stre~b.. and. it appears that Coac:h Harkness is rallying his troops for tbe coming playoffs. Asainst WHHams, Kip Churchill, p~te Crawford, Doug Feasby and Donny Marshall all seon:d twice. Single tallies went to Brad Hiriterberger, Grant Judd and Kevin Kardos as Union once again exceeded the ten goal mark. Ironic!lll, arch-rival Williams scored the first goal of the game but at 6:Pt the Dutchmen began the scoring that :led them to a 5-1 first period lead. Within twelve minutes, Marshall, Chttrchill, Crawford, Judd and Feasby had (allied for the mighty Dutchmen: Eady. in the second p.eriod, Union 'increased its lead to 7-1 and then later to 9.,.2. Marshall and fe~!!bY tallied their second goals ·Of the night and Hinterberger and Kardos also scored. At the completion of the period, .the Dutchmen found themselve&· comfortably ahead. Williams switched goalies at the beginning of the third period but it was to no avail. Churchill scored his second goal of the night and then, after Williams' Peter Gonye completed his hat trick, Crawford· scored the fiital UnioJ1 goal on one of the prettiest tallies of the niglit. He capped off a brilliant three-way passing play during a Dutchmen powerplay by skating in from the point and,, · after taking passes from Mark Jenkins and Marshall, neatly stuffed the \black vitamin'' in the net past a bewildered Williams netminder. Williams may be arch 'rivals in academics and football, but I doubt their hockey team will want to come back to Grapplers Finish on Winning Note by JON SCHORR The Union wrestling team finished its season ·last Saturday with dual victories over Rochester and their host St. John Fisher. The wins placed the Dutchmerfs final record at 10.:6. Union downed Rochester in a close match by a score of 25-2 I. In the effort, Cliff Farrell and Ralph Edgely both contributed to the Union cause by pinning their opponents. Matt VanBenthem beat his foe decisively •. giving the matmen another 4 points. Cliff Farrell took his match by a fall. In the 24-19 victory over St. John Fisher, the Grapplers fell behind 16-0 only to come back strong in the upper weight classes, At 150 pounds, co-captain Jim Sutton started it all, winning by a fall. Cliff Farrell then notched another win followed by pins from Pete Felker, Matt VanBenthem. and Mike Paquette. Union's season ends at a very respectable 10-6. Individually the team was paced by Senior co- captain Mike Paquette who finished at 13-1-1. Jim Sutton at 12-3-1. Pete Felker (9-2-.J), Matt VanBenthein (12~3-1), and Cliff FarreU(1-I) all enjoyed excellent seasons.· Many of the Union Wrestlers competed in several weight classes. Coach Warren Crow's team now heads toward the New York State Tournament with · very hopeful chances of coming home with some honors. The match is at St. Lawrence on Feb. 19. Be there-Aloha. Schenectady again after that shellacking. Plattsburgh S,tate was anxiously awaiting our arrival Saturday night. Having previously ·defeated them by an amazing score of 16·1, they.were looking to gain some type ·Of revenge for that embarrassment,. but their hopes Were dashed as the Dutchmen skated, checked and scored their way to another easy Division 11 victory. tile visiting Dutchmen built up a staunch 4-.() first period lead on goals by Jenkins and Marshall and two goals by Churchill, his 21st and 22nd of the season. In the second period, Union continued its pressure and increased the lead to 8-0 before Plattsburgh could score. Marsha:ll tallied hi!l second .of the night and Feasby, Judd and Chuck Pappas also scored. The third .period was a \yawner\ for the Dutchmen as Pappas tallied his second goal of the evening, Mike O'Connell scored a pretty goal and Marshall completed his hat trick at 5:48. It gave him his 24th goal of the year and made him the team leader. Sophomore center Kardos re- injured a pesty hip injury and steady d·efenseman Dean Mathewson was also injured as a result of a cfleck he delivered on a Plattsburgh forward. Hopefully ~~~- injuries will not keep them from playing any future games. Pete Felker in complete control. Union plays at nome against Queens University on Saturday and then travelS to St. Lawrence next Tuesday as the squad hopes to continue its current winning streak. --------Icemen of the Week------ This week's outstanding players are sophomores Kip Churchill . and Don Marshall. These two high scoring forwards pa.ced the Union attack in their highly impressive victories over Williams and Plattsburgh State. . . . Churchill, who hails from Rexdale, Ontario had another prodUctive week as he scored four goals to increase his total to 22. He also tallied numerous assists ~nd made· the Union powerplay more potent by playing the point. Last year's leading scorer; he is second at the moment and recently became the first Union skater to tally 100 points. A smart player.; much is expected of him in the future. Union Pharmacy 600UalohSt.· Mm&Womm Student Nttttb . \3'74f...311 Kip Churchill :., FERRO'S PHARMACY closest to euap.us ~err DISCOUMT 575NMIIL 37\1-Mt. ~ Don Marshall The PENNY PINCHER QUALITY CLOTHES- LOW PRICES USED BUT NOT ABUSED CURRENT STYLES Ull ALTAMONT AVE. (Entrance llenafee St.) Tuesday - Saturday 10..5 'rhursdats till 9 p.m. 356-l571 I Marshall, who comes from Hull, Massachusetts, continued his amazing play since being named a tri-captain a few weeks ago. He now leads the team in total points and, with his five goals, including a hat trick ~gainst Plattsburgh State, mcreased his goal production to 24, the most on the team. A great hustler, he is sure to score many more goals and with his ability to put the puck in the net there is no telling how far lte will go. ANNOUNCEMENT: There will be a Block U Society tneeting this Sunday at 8:30 in Strauss Lounge. All varsity letter winners from all sports are encouraged to attend.

Page 16 CONCORDIENSIS, Feb. 16, 1977 6port5 : :. . . . ' ' . . \ . ' . . ' ~ - - : - . : . . . : ' . ' ' ~ . ' . Tracksters Continue to Shine Brightly by ROCKY DOLAN Nine members of the Union College Indoor Track Team were entered in the Syracuse University quadrangular meet as individuals this past Wednesday night by Coach Ken Michelsen. After consecutive record-breaking weekends at home the coach gave the remainder of the team the week off and entered those who wanted an opportunity to compet\! at the excellent Syracuse facility Keeping in step with their earlier rertormances as a team thts small contmgent returned wtth 6 lirst-place finishes and 6 new Unton College Indoor Track records. Sophomores Matt Blum and Mark Decker continued their superb hurdles string. Over the past 2 weekends this duo has swept their event twice, and set College and Fieldhouse records in the 55-yard high hurdles. On Wednesday night the distance was 60 yards, but the results were no different. In separate sections, both Blum and Decker ran away from the competition and in the process became co-holders of their second indoor track record; 7.6 seconds over the 60-yard high hurdles. Both are entires in the IC4A's. In the triple jump Earl Chilton continued his phenomenal leaping by clearing 46-1;2 and winning this event easily. This effort was Chilton's personal best by over half a foot and gave him the school record in the event. The consistent, hard-working sophomore has improved by over 31;2 feet on his early season jumping. I he amazing Kevin Scheuer took the lead early. forced the pace through an estimated 1:53 halt-mile and determinedly hung on to win the 1000-yard run in the incredible time of 2: 10.!5 (the world record in the 1000 is 2:05.5). This time was a school record, breaking the mark set by Scheuer himself last year at 2:13.0 by over 2 seconds. More importantly, this achievement thrust the Scotia sophomore into contention for the national championship in this event. At present Scheuer is ranked 8th nationally (All Division I, II, and HI schools in the U.S.) in the event and still has 2 races ramaining before the IC4A's (national championships) on March 4-5 in Princeton's Jadwin Gymnasium. This dedicated sophomore has improved by over 5 seconds on his early-season times and is looking forward to meeting the best in this event. Co-captam Bob Moffatt attacked the 600-yard dash with a first quarter-mile of 49.6 seconds, then left the field far behind to win going-away in 1: I 0. 7. This time bettered Moffatt's own school record of 1:11.2, and, more significantly, placed the unbeaten junior within striking distance of Adelphi's Kevin Price, who has the nation's fastest time at this distance this year. Moffatt's performance was the second best by any collegiate runner anywhere this season and so puts him in the position of co-favorite (with Price) for the national championship in the 600-yard dash. Due to clerical error Moffatt was unable to meet Price in last year's .race. and so their matchup in the IC4A's should be a fast, tough race that is Moffatt's trademark. C o a c h M i c h e I s e n w as understandably overjoyed with · The final win ot the mght was his athletes' performances on by the mile relay team. Leading Wednesday. As yet his forces off, freshman Matt Guilfoyle took have set 6 new Fieldhouse and the lead with a 50.1 second college records this season. Nine quarter-mile split. His handoff members of his squad have was to classmate Pete Viclkind qualified for IC4A's, and another who turned in a 52.0 split; and in state championship appears to be, turn handed off to Scheuer. if not likely, then certainly Scheuer blazed through a 49. 7, · possible. Stiff competition waits gave the baton to Moffat, whose ahead for the Dutchmen. On 47.7 was his fastest of the year Sunday the 20th, the team is and put the race away for the entered in the big RPI Dutchman quartet. Their overall invitational, and the following time of 3:19.5 was a new College Saturday is the Capital District record and compares favorably Championships held here in the against the competition they have Fieldhouse. The next weekend qualified to meet in the IC4A's after that is the IC4A's - the (Villanova Uni.v~rsi~y, for toughest challenge of all for instance, is qualified first at Michelsen's talented young crew · 3:13.0). of athletes. Lee Parish was entered in the 300-yard dash, an unusual distance not regularly scheduled at most meets. The sophomore sprint star responded to the challenge of the event by winning his section in the fast time of _32.8, Which placed {ourth overall. Because the 300 is an unusual distance, there is no previous record listed, and so the record in the event is now creditied to Parish. Tough Week for Boopsters Freshman Dave Cozzens was unable to match his record performance of 6-8~ from last week, but managed to clear 6-6 and gain a tie for first place in the high jump. Cozzens as well is an IC4A entry. b~ LANCE BOBROW Last Wednesday night at Clinton, N.Y., the much improved Union Dutchmen gave the highly touted Hamilton Continentals all they could handle for one half before finally bowing Sw intDiers Win First This past week, the hard work and dauntless efforts of the Union College Swim Team had finally paid off. On Wednesday, \Coach Magee's twenty\ journeyed down to SUNY at New Paltz and came home four hours later with their first victory of the season. The Garnet literally blew the New Paltz Hawks out of the water, the final score reading 80 to 32 in favor of Union. Every swimmer put out his best or close to best effort, and the entire team should be commended for its work. Out~tanding competitors of the day were Nick Gassaway, AI Hertzberg, Marty King, and diver Rich Agnello. On Saturday, Union was not as fortunate. The swimming powerhouse of Hamilton College visited the foote pool and took the Garnet down in defeat; but not Without a tough fight. Faced with superior competition, every swimmer put out his best effort Algur Liquor Center Liquor! - Wines - Cordials 751'/.a EASTERN AVE. CORNER JACKSON LOWEST PRICES ALLOWED IN N.Y. STATE and some of the finest times of the season were turned in. Doug Richardson's times in the 500 and 1000-yard freestyles were his finest of the year and showed the capability that will put him among the top competitors in the upcoming State Championships. Jim Lowe was one of the few Union men who captured a first place position, beating his opponent hands down in the 200 yard breaststroke. Junior Nick Gassaway has got to be considered the outstandmg swimmer of the week. In both meets he finished first in every event he swam. At New Paltz he drowned his competition when winning the 200-yard butterfly and 500-yard freestyle. Against Hamilton he was part of the winning medley relay team and took first in both the 200-yard individual medley and the 200- yard butterfly. CALL llt·llll Ill ITOP II l&tl lAY ST. ICI'DV by a count of 77-62. This is in sharp contrast to last month's meeting at the Memorial Field House in which the outcome was never in doubt. Hamilton got off to an early lead with the help of its star center C-edric Oliver. Oliver, only a sophomore sc()red six early points and also hauled down 5 rebounds in the space of a few minutes to help the Continentals take the early lead 12-8. Union then ran off 10 unanswered points to go ahead 18-12 and then took its biggest lead of the evening, 24- 14 with 9:53 left in the half. The · key in this surge was the sharp shooting and playmaking of senior guard Gary Borgese. Also instrumental for Union's fine early showing was Mike Smith who hit a few back-door layups and also made several nice passes. Hamilton managed to battle back to knot the score at 38 by halftime. The key to this half for Union was their ability to slow the tempo of the game down so Hamilton could not get tts last- break offense in gear. Unfortunately, this strategy STUDENT FORUM MEETING ss 110 Thursday, Feb. 17, 1977 7:30P.M. AGENDA: I. Athletic Task Force Proposal 2. Internal Foundation Report 3. Educational Policy Proposal 4. Tax Committee Revisions broke down in the second halt when Union could not get the ball inside as it had successfully done earlier and Hamilton started to capitalize on these turnovers in the form of fast-break layups. John Klauberg and Brian Coombes hurt Union this half as they finished with 22 and 21 points respectively. Gary Borgese led the Union effort with 14 points and played one of his better ball games of the year offensively. The problem tonight though was defense, and Union could not contain the Hamilton attack when it counted. Last Saturday night, the Dutchmen tried to battle back from a horrendous start but they had to fight against the referees.as well as C. W. Post before finally puUed to within four, 79-75 with 15 seconds remaining. However, Joe Lavery missed his one and one free throw and that was the ball game.The Dutchmen were in foul trouble throughout and this told the tale the last 3 minutes when Walker, Smith, Borgese, Nearpass, and Meola all fouled out. Marshall and Smith topped Union with I 6 points each and Borgese added 14 points in addition to directing the Union attack. Union now falls to 8-10 With a home game this Saturday against Cortland State. Also, there is a road game next Wednesday against Binghamton. Broadcast time for both games will be 7:55 over WRUC. bowing to Post 83-75 in a game H t played at Greenvale, Long ls~and. oops er The game started out Wtth a large number of Union turnovers and the result was Union trailing by 29-16 with 5 minutes remaining in the first half. Union then started to get their offensive plays clicking but unfortunately Post continued to apply pressure at their end ot the court and Union was still trailing 49-32 at half-time. of the Week In the second half, Union Thts week's player of the week started to apply full-court ts semor guard Gary Borgese of pressure and this helped put the New Hyde Park, N.Y. Gary has Du~chmen back in the game. Al often been overlooked as he had Walker who had nothing to show . been playmg in the shadows of for the fir::.t half, managed to get former Umon greats John Denio hot and score II points in the and Bill Carmody. Always a second half. Uary Borgese agam possessor of a deadly outside played very well and hit several shot, Gary put together two fine key baskets ln this half. Mike games after he had gotten off to a Smith helped limit the C. W. Post slow start. Hopefully over these Ocelots to one shot on offense by last few games, Gary, as well as controlling the defensive the rest of the team, will play well backboards. as this is necessary for Union to In any case. the Dutchmen had · wm. ... re & In th P: m m w m E IE c E tl p C4 C4 v. sl a It E sl tl n tl e 0 si v p s c p f \ c

. - ~ . page 16 ~ONCORDIENSJ~~ J!~b .. 16, 1977 . 6pOrt6 Tracksters Continue to Shine Brightly by ROCKY DOLAN Nine members of the Union College Indoor Track Team were entered in the Syracuse University · quadrangular meet as individuals this past Wednesday night by Coach Ken Michelsen. After consecutive record-breaking weekends at home the coach gave the remainder of the team the week off and entered those who wanted an opportunity to compete at the excellent Syracuse facility. Keeping in step with their earlier performances as a team this small contingent returned with 6 first-place finishes and 6 new Union College Indoor Track records. Sophomores Matt Blum and Mark Decker continued their superb hurdles string. Over the past 2 weekends this duo has swept their event twice, and set College and Fieldhouse records in the 55-yard high hurdles. On Wednesday night the distance Was 60 yards, but the results were no different. In separate section$, both Blum and Decker ran away from the competition and in the process became co-holders of their second indoor track record; 7.6 seconds over the 60-yard high hurdles. Both are. entires in the IC4A's. Lee Parish was entered in the .300-yard dash, an unusual distance not regularly scheduled at most meets. The sophomore sprint star responded to the c:hallenge of the event by winning. his section in the fast time of )2.8, Jn the triple jump Earl Chilton continued his phenomenal leaping by clearing 46-Yl and winning this event easily. This effort was Chilton's personal best. by over half a foot and gave him the school record in the event. The consistent, hard-working sophomore has improved by over 3 V2 feet on his early season jumping.~ The amazing Kevin Scheuer took the lead early, forced the pace through an estimated 1 :53 half-mile and determinedly hung on to win the 1000-yard run in the incredible time of 2:10.8 (the world record in the 1000 is 2:05.5). This time was a school record, breaking the mark set by Scheuer himself last year at 2: 13.0 by over 2 seconds, More importantly, this achievement thrust the Scotia sophomore into contention for the national championship in this event. At present Scheu~;:r is ranked 8th nationally {All Division I, II, and l1l schools in the U.S.) in the event and still has 2 races ramaining before the IC4A's (national championships) on March 4-5 in Princeton~s Jadwin Gymnasium. This dedicated sophomore has improved by over 5 seconds on his early-season times and is looking forward to meeting the best in this event. Co-captam Bob Moffatt attack~ the 600-yard dash with a first quarter-mile of 49.6 seconds, then left the field far behlnd to win going-away in 1:10.7. This time bettered Moffatt's own school record of I: 11.2, and, more significantly. placed the unbeaten junior within striking distance of Adelpbi's K.e'lill Price, who has the nation's fastest time at this distance this year. Moffatt's performance was the second best by any collegiate runner anywhere this season and so puts hirn: in the .position of co-favorite (with. Price) for the national cttampionship in the 600-yard dash. Due to clerical error Moffatt was unable to meet Price in last. year's ,nee. and so their matclt'Qp in the IC4A's should be a fast, tough .-ace that is Moffatt's trademark. Coach Michelsen '}'as und~;:rstandably overjoyed With · The final win ot the n1ght was his athletes' performances . on by the mile relay team. ·Leading Wednesday. As yet his ftm:es off, freshman Matt Guilfoyle.took have set 6 new Fieldhouse and the lead with a 50.1 second college records this season. Nine quarter-mile split. His handoff members of his squad have was to classmate. Pete Vielkind qualified for 1C4A's, and another who turned in a 52;0 !!plit; a~d ~n state championship- at'pea~ t9 ·be, tum . nanded , off to Scbeuer · · jf. . n()t :likely, then · . certainly ScheU~?£ ~laZed through' a 49.7. . PQS~ible. S~iff competition·· waits S?.Ve tbe ba~o'fl .to Moffat, who~e abe.ad for the ·Dutchmen. · Ori. 41.7 was his fastest of the year Sunday the 20th,· the team is ~d put the race away for the entered in the big R.PI · Dutchman quartet. Their overall · invitatio11al, and the folloWing time of .3:19.5 was a new College Saturday is the Capital District reeord and compares favorably Championships held here in the against the competition. they have Fieldhouse.. The next weekend qualified to meet in the IC4A's after that is the. 1C4A's - the · (Villanova · . Uni.versi~y~ for_ toughest challenge . of aU for. instanCe, is ·qualified fmt at Micbelsen's talented young crew 3:13.0). of athletes. which pia~ ... t~urt~. o~~~~h Because tHe 300 1s an lll1usua1 distance, . theie is . no priv~otis record listed, and so the record in the event is now crediticd to Parish. Tough Week for-B~psters Freshman Dave Cozzens was unable to match . his record perfonnance of 6-8~ from last week, but managed to clear 6-6 and gain a tie for first place in the high jump. Cozzens as well is an 1C4A entry. br LANCE JJODROW Last Wednesday lligbt at Clinton, N.Y., the much. improved Union Dutchmen gave the highly touted Hamilto~t. Continentals all they could handle for one half befQre finally bowing by a count of 77-62. ibis is in sharp contrast tD last monttfs ~eting at the Memorial Field Bouse in wllicilr the outcome was iiever in do11bt. HamiltDn 11ot off to an early lead with the help of its star center C-edric Oliver. Oliver, only Sw iininers Win First a sophomore sc::ored six early .points and also hauled d<>wn 5 rebounds in the space of a few minutes to h.elp the Continentals This past week, the hard work and dauntless efforts of the Union College Swim Team had finally paid off. On Wednesday, \Coach Magee's twenty\ journeyed down to SUNY at New Paltz and came home four hours later with their first victory of the season. The Garnet literally blew the New Paltz Hawks out of the water, the final score reading 80 to 32 in favor of Union. Every swimmer put out his best or close to best effort, and the entire team should be commended for its work. Outstanding competitors of the day were Niclv Gassaway, AI Hertzberg, Marty King, and diver Rich Agnello. On Saturday, Union was not as fortunate. The swimming powerhouse of Hamilton College visited the Foote pool and took the Garnet down in defeat; but not without a tough fight.· Faced with superior competition, every swimmer put out his best effort Alcur Liquor Center Liquor.a - Wines - Cordials 751~ EASTERN AVE. CORNER JACKSON LOWEST PRICES ALLOWED IN N.Y. STATE take th.e 'early lead 12-8. Union . . then ran off 10 unanswered points and some of the fmest _1ames of to go ahead 18-12 and then took tb~ season ;-ve~e tu~ned m. Doug its biggest lead vf the evening, 24- Richardson s times m the 500 an.d .. 14 with. 9 :s3 left in the half. The 1000-yard freestyles. . were h1s • key in this sur,ge was the sharp finest of the year and showed the h t' d 1 m '·'ng · f · · . hi s oo 1ng an . p ay a.l.'t1! o capability that. Wlll . put. m, senior ,guard Gary Borgese. Also among. the top compettt~rs m.the ·instrumental fer Union's fine upcommg State Champ10nshtps. 1 h · .. M'k Smt'th · L ·f h fi . ear y s owtng was . 1 e Jm~ owe was one 0 t e ew who hit a few back-door layups Umon men who captured a first · . . . 1 · . · t · b . h · and also made several mce passes. p ace posl ton, e~ttng Is Hamilton managed tc. battle opponent hands down m the 200 b k t k t th t 38 by· yard breaststroke. ac . · 0 no . . e score. a. 1 J · . N · k G h t halftime. The k.ey to th1s ha f for umor 1c assaway as go U · . h · b'l' 1 t be 'd d th t ta .. d. mon was tetra tlty.to sow o cons1 ere · e ou s n mg h f i. d · · f th. k 1 b th t e tem.po o tue game . o-wn .so sw1mmer o e wee . n o . . . t h fi · h d fi t · . Hamilton could not get 1ts fast- mee s . e tms e trs m . every b . k ft' ·· A N P I h rea o .ense m gear. event he swam. t ew a tz e U ~ rt t 1 th · t t drowned his competition when n ° una e y, 18 s ra egy winning the 200-yard butterfly and 500-yard freestyle. Against Hamilton he was part of the winning medley relay tearn and took first in both th~ 200-yard individual medley and the 200- yard butterfly. GALL 11•1111 lltl STOP II liUAV St. ICI 1 1Y STUDENT FORUM MEETING SSUD Thursday, Feb. 7:30 P.M. AGENDA.: 17, 1977 1. Athletic Task Foree Proposal 2. Irater11al Foundation Report 3. Educational Policy Proposal 4. Tax Committee Revisions broke down in the second halt when UniQn j;)OUld not get the ball inside as it had S\lcces~fully done. earlier and Hamilton !!tarted to capitalize on these tutn()vers in the form of fast-break layups. John K.laube~g and Brian Coombes hurt l)nion this half as they fini-shed with 22 and 21 points respectively .. Gary Borgese led the Union effort with 14 points and played one of his · better ball games of the year offensively. The probiem tonight though was .defense, and Union could not contain the Hamilton attack when it counted. Last .Saturday night, the Dutchmen tried to battle back from a horrendous start but they had to fight against the referees.as well as C. W. Post before finally puUed to witbilt fQut, 79-75 with. IS seco.nds remaining. However, Joe Lav~ry missed hiS one and one free throw at1d. that was ;the ball game.The Dutchmen were in foul trou'ble throughout and this told the tale the last 3 minutes when Walker; Smith, Borgese, Nearpass, and Meola all fouled out .. Marshall and Smith topped Union with 16 points ea~h and Borge5e added .14 points in addition to directing the Union · attack. Union now falls to 8-10 with a home game this Saturday against Cortland State .. Also, there is a road game next Wednesday against Binghamton. Broadcast time for both games will be 7~55 over WRUC. bowing to. Post 83-75 in a gameD t ... played at Greenvale, Long Is~and. oo·p. s .ftr The game started out Wlth a . ..::7 large number o( Union turnovers · and the result was Union trailing by 29-16 with 5 minutes remaining in the first half. Union then started to get their offensive plays clicking but unfortunately Post continued to apply pressure at their ~nd of the court and Union was still trailing 49-32 at half-time. of the Week In the second half, Union This week's player of the week started to apply. full-court is senior guard Gary Borgese of pressure and this helped put the New Hyde Park, N.Y. Gary has Dutchmen back in th.e game. AI often bee~ ov~rlooked as he had W a1ker who had nothmg to show , been playmg m the shadows. of for the first half, man~ged .to get former Union greats John Denio hot and score 11 potnts m the and Bill Carrnody. Always a second half. Gary Borg7se .again possessor of a deadly outsid.e played very. ~ell a~d htt seve.ral shot, Gary put together tWo fine key. baskets t~ ~h1s half. Mtke games after he had gotten off to a Sm1th helped l1mtt the C.W. Post slow start. Hopefully over these Ocelots t~ one shot on offense. by last few games; 9ar.y, as well as controlhng the defens.1ve therestoftheteam,willplaywell backboards. . . as this is necesSary for Union to In any case. the Dutchmen had win. & \I • wi m Ec m 0 ... E• th pc cc cc w sl< a1 II: E sl tl1 m tl1 eJ (jj sl VI pt sl Cl p fl ~ c! !f ~ ~~ :~J . :;:t ] ::• I ~ I 'II ~ ~~: :* :::: J! ~~ J.

d n 0 a a -~ ~:·a:. a-'~ .. - .. i_.··:S·· .. '\ - ,. ~. \\*' Student Forum in discussion on pertinent campus issues. Volume 106, No. 15 February 23, 1977 JJ Senate Agenda Announced After an inactive fall term and beginning of winter, the All- College Senate faces a cluttered agenda for its March 3rd meeting that has already necessitated the addition of a tentative additional meeting on March I Oth. The March 3rd meeting to be held in the Old Chapel at 4:30 · faces three major proposals in which debate is expected to be vigorous if not heated. Foremost amongst these are a series of proposals that will deal with the NESCAC-Division I issues. After mnnths of deliberation, the Senate will vote t() resolve Union's athletic future. Dr. Bonner has stated reoeatedlv that he will abide by the decision of the campus community (i.e. the vote of the All~College Senate). The N ESCAC-Division I issues have taken on added significance because many people feel that it is the cornerstone for President Bonner's model of a \c{)mpre- hensive college in a university setting.\ Should the Senate vote to remain in NESCAC and not go Division I, many believe, Dr. Bonner's model will receive a serious setback. Forum Discusses General Ed, IEF After the controversial athletic issues are resolved, debate will tu_rn to a proposal by the Student Life Committee to impose severe sanctions on behaviors deemed undesirable such as vandalism, racism, sexism, etc. This proposal is expected to be vig()rously debated with opponents contesting that amongst other things the proposal is too vague. Discussions conceri:ung the possibly construct a list of .. great restructunng of the General bookS\ from Which they could Education program, the proposed choose a few for use in their Intemal Educational Foundation, blasses. The professors would the· Athletic Task Force, and the rotate responsibilities; so that no Pre-Health Society dominated a individual would teach a marathon Student Forum freshman course for more than meeting, hel(f last night. two consecutive years, General Education· - . The size ofth~sfclasses would. Discussed be kept small (no more than lS The first topic considtred dealt students). The professors would with the progress that has ~een teach two sections a year and made in the- area of General assvme related advising duties Education. Ron Bergman, student · (liberal learning outside the member ofthe Educational Policy major}. There would be numerous Committee(EPC) and itsGeneral writing assignments given during .,. Education subcommittee; gave the course, as well as a few oral the report.. presentations. Ron began by discu~sing a . Ron then went on to present possible catagories from which upperclass required courses could be drawn. Thes.e included: Perspectives from Another Time and .. Culture, ~ymbolic- and Abstract Reasoning, Human · Behavior and Institutions, Science and Technalogy, and Arts and· Literatur~. The new ptogram would involve taking t~n courses as opposed to the current seven. However, four of the courses can also be counted toward one's major. There has been very little debate as of yet as to the make-up of a senior course. Ron closed by stressmg that all of these plans are tentative and subject to change. This is where 'the thinking is now. The EPC is presently receiving feedback and criticism. All ideas are ~ncouraged and should be sent to Professor Neal Allen. IEF Considered Glenn Wolfson then discussed a Planning and Priorities proposal to establish an Internal Educational Foundatii>n. The idea would be to establish a fund through which innovative changes could b~ made in Union's continued oa Page t3 The last item on the Senate agenda is the proposal for the development of the Internal Educational Foundation. The proposal stems from the Planning and Priorities Committee and deals with a fund that will supply money for a variety of special research projects of value to the campus a'nd/ or individual students, Again, heated debate is expected to ~nsue. The Agenda Committee has suggested that all business will not be concluded on the 3rd. and has thus scheduled a tentative meeting for March 10th .. All students are invited to attend both meetings. ,possible structure for a freshman course._ Possible objectives of this course inClude 1) DeVelopment of written and oral communication skills; '2) Develop_.nent of related analytical .skills; and 3) Introduction to liberal learning. EPC has debated which objectives should have highest priority, but this decision has not yet been- made. The point was stressed that ·the freshman course should be an exciting one. The determination of the proper balance between skills and content is primarily a value judgement, althaugh most people will agree that stressing skills is important. 'Twelfth Night' Premieres Friday Another idea that Ron outlined called fer a gathering of l8 professors willing to teach a freshman course. These people would design the content for the churse ·described above and The Umon College Mounte- banks will bring Shakespeare's \Twelfth Night, or, What You Will\ to the stage of the Nott Memorial Theater fQr_ a seven-. performance stand beginning Friday, Feb. 25. The ·comedy, under the direction of Barry Smith, assistant professor of the arts at Union, will tun Feb. 25-27 and March 2-5. The curtain rises at 8 p.m. Written by Shakespeare around 1600, the play begins with Orsino, duke of lllyria, mulling_ over his passionate love for Olivia, a countess who has sworn herself to seven years' mourning for her . dead brother and father, and who · refuses to see Orsino. The situation becomes more com,plicated when Viola and her twin brother Sebastian -of · Messaline are shipwrecked on Ulyria and separated, each giving the other \lp for dead. To get by in the strange country, Viola dresses herself as a man and becomes Orsino's steward., answering to the name Cesario. Orsino sends the disguised Viola (who falls in love with the duke) to woo Olivi~ in his stead. Olivia falls 1n love With Orsino's stand-in · and all kinds of problems ensue. Orsino expresses a major theme of the play in his opening lines: \If m .. sic be the food oflove, play on, Give me excess of. it. that- surfeiting, The appetite may sicken, and so die\' Throughout the play, the characters indul$e t~emselves to excess. ursmo mdulges 1n hl love, Olivia in her mourning, Viola in her disguise, and Olivia's steward Malvolio in his self-love. Such indulgence leads the characters into nonsensical behavior and mad ventures. The only character offeting perspective is Peste, the clown, who plays on the indulgences of the others and, in so doing, reveals their foolishness. 1he lead roles will be played as follows: Michael Bol'linger, Orsino;. Robyn Greene; Viola; Sharon Rubin, Olivia; Joseph Millett, Malvolio; Bruce Cohen, Sir Toby Belch; Bill Pike, Sir Andrew Aguecheek; Margaret- Ann Maloney, Maria; and John Rose, Feste. The set has been designed by Charles Steckler, ·assistant professor . of the arts at Union, and Joseph Millett. Costumes Were designed by Donna Meyer, a professional designer from New York City who was brought into the production under the Mountebanks' \Theater Artists Program.\ Phil Holbrook is technical coordinator, and Marshall Wisoff is assistant director. John Betdy of Schenectady,. wrote the mus1c for the play. Don Barstow ·designed the lights. Barry Smith, who joined Union College in 1971, has directed a dozen major productions for the Mountebanks, includillg \As You Like It/' \Our Town,\ amt \The Tempest.\ He bas been a driving force behind Union College's theater program, initiating such projects as the annual freshman play, a new \Director .. s Lab Theater,\ the college Cabaret, and the .. Theat~r Artist Program\ .. which brings theater profes- sionals to the campus. He is a graduate of Westminster College and the Yale School of Drama. Tickets to the play are $2 to the. general public and $1 to students, except those with Union College ID's, who will be charged $.75. J.{.eservations can be made by calling the Mountebank box office, open daily from I p.m. to 5 p.m. Phone: 370-6153. In rehearsal; \Twelfth Night\

s k a a se to Student Forum in discussion on pertinent campus issues. Volume 106, No. 15 February 23, 1977 Senate Agenda Announced After an inactive faH term and beginning of winter, the All- College Senate faces a cluttered agenda for its March 3rd meeting that has already necessitated the addition of a tentative additional meeting on March lOth. The March 3rd meeting to be held in the Old Chapel at 4:30 faces three major proposals m wh1ch debate 1s expected to be vigorous if not heated. Foremost amongst these are a series of proposals that will deal with the N ESCAC-Divis10n I issues. After months of deliberation, the Senate will vote to resolve Union's athletic future. Dr. Bonner has stated reoeatedlv that he will abide by the decision of the campus community (i.e. the vote oi the All-College Senate). The N ESCAC-Divis1on i tssues have taken on added significance because many people leel that 1t 1s the cornerstone for President Bonner's model of a \compre- henstve college in a university setting.\ Should the Senate vote to remain m ~ ESCAC' and not go Division I, many believe, Dr. Bonner's model wtil receive a serious setback. Forum Discusses General Ed, IEF After the controversial athletic issues are resolved. debate will turn to a proposal by the Student Life Committee to 1mpose severe sanctions on behaviors deemed undesifable such as vandalism, racism, sexism, etc. This proposal is expected to be vigorously debated with opponents contesting that amongst other things the proposal is too vague. Discusswns concernmg the restructufing of the General Education program, the proposed Internal Educational Foundation, the Athletic Task Force, and the Pre-Health Society dominated a marathon Student Forum meeting, held last night. General Education Discussed The first topic considered dealt with the progress that has been made in tlw area of General Education. Ron Bergman, student member of the Educational Policy Committee (EPC) and its General , Education subcommittee, gave the report. possibly construct a list of ••great books\ from which they could choose a few for use in their classes. The professors would rotate responsibilities, so that no individual would teach a freshman course for mofe than two consecutive years. The size of these classes would be kept small (no more than 15 students). The professors would teach two sections a year and ass~me related advising duties (liberal learning outside the major). There would be numerous writing assignments given during the course, as well as a few oral presentations. Ron then went on to present possible catagories from which upperclass required courses could be drawn. I hese included: Perspectives from Another Time a~d . Culture, ~ymbolic and Abstract Reasoning, Human Behavior and Institutions, Science and Technology, and Arts and Literature. The new program would involve taking ten courses as opposed to the current seven. However, four of the courses can also be counted toward one's major. There has been very little debate as of yet as to the make-up of a senior course. Ron closed by stressmg that all of these plans are tentative and subject to change. This is where the thinking is now. The EPC is presently receiving feedback and criticism. All ideas are encouraged and should be sent to Professor Neal Allen. IEF Considered Glenn Wolfson then discussed a Planning and Priorities proposal to establish an Internal Educational Foundation. The idea would be to establish a fund through which innovative changes could be made in Union's Confuiued on Page 13 The last item on the Senate agenda is the proposal for the development of the Internal Educational Foundation. The proposal stems from the Planning and Priorities Committee and deals with a fund that will sllpply money for a variety of special research projects of value to the campus and/ or individual students. Again, heated debate is expected to ~nsue. The Agenda Committee has suggested that all business will not be concluded on the 3rd and has thus scheduled a tentative meeting for March lOth. All students are invited to attend both meetings. Ron began by discussing a possible structure for a freshman course. Possible objectives of this course include I) Development of written and oral communication skills; 2) Development of related analytical skills; and 3) Introduction to liberal learning. EPC has debated which objectives should have highest priority, but this decision has not yet been made. The point was stressed that the freshman course should be an exciting one. The determination of the proper balance between skills and content is primarily a value judgement, although most people will agree that stressing skills is important. 'Twelfth Night' Premieres Friday Another idea that Ron outlined called for a gathering of 18 professors willing to teach a freshman course. These people would design the content for the course described above and The Umon College Mounte- banks will bring Shakespeare's \Twelfth Night, or, What You Will\ to the stage of the Nott Memorial Theater f9r a seven- performance stand beginning Friday, Feb. 25. The comedy, under the direction of Barry Smith, assistant professor of the arts at Union, will run Feb. 25-27 and March 2-5. The curtain rises at 8 p.m. Written by Shakespeare around 1600, the play begins with Orsino, duke of lllyria, mulling over his passionate love for Olivia, a countess who has sworn herself to seven years' mourning for her .--------------~ 1 dead brother and father, and who INSIDE Cabaret Troubles p. 2 Allee, .pt. 3 Am p\\3 pp .. :d..,1 pp,.l~;.f refuses to sec Orsino. The situation becomes more complicated when Viola and her twin brother Sebastian of Messaline are shipwrecked on lllyria and separated, each giving the other up for dead. To get by in the strange country, Viola dresses herself as a man and becomes Orsino's steward, answering to the name Cesario. Orsino sends the disguised Viola (who falls in love with the duke) to woo Olivia in his stead. Olivia falls in love with Orsino's stand-in and all kinds of problems ensue. Orsino expresses a major theme of the play in his opening lines: \If music be the food of love, play on, Give me excess of it. that surfeiting, The appetite may sicken, and so die\ Throughout the play, the characters indulge themselves to excess. ursmo mctutges m hi love, Olivia in her mourning, Viola in her disguise, and Olivia's steward Malvolio in his self-love. Such indulgence leads the characters into nonsensical behavior and mad ventures. The only character offering perspective is Feste, the clown, who plays on the indulgences of the others and, in so doing, reveals their foolishness. The lead roles will be played as follows: Michael Bollinger, Orsino; Robyn Greene, Viola; Sharon Rubin, Olivia; Joseph Millett, Malvolio; Bruce Cohen, Sir Toby Belch; Bill Pike, Sir Andrew Aguecheek; Margaret- Ann Maloney, Maria; and John Rose, Feste. The set has been designed by Charles Steckler. assistant professor of the arts at Union, and Joseph Millett. Costumes were designed by Donna Meyer, a professional designer from New York City who was brought into the production under the Mountebanks' \Theater Artists Program.\ Phil Holbrook is technical coordinator, and Marshall Wisoff' is assistant director. John Berdy of Schenectady, wrote the mustc for the play. Don Barstow designed the lights. Barry Smith, who joined Union College in 1971, has directed a dozen major productions for the Mountebanks, includil'lg \As You Like It,\ \Our Town,\ and \The Tempest.\ He has been a driving force behind Union College's theater program, initiating such projects as the annual freshman play, a new \Director's Lab Theater,\ the college Cabaret, and the \Theat~r Artist Program\ which brings theater profes- sionals to the campus. He is a graduate of Westminster College and the Yale School of Drama. Tickets to the play are $2 to the. general public and $1 to students, except those with Union College I D's, who will be charged $. 75. ~eservations can be made by calling the Mountebank box office, open daily from I p.m. to 5 p.m. Phone: 370-6153. In rehearsal: \Twelfth Night\

., • t . . . . . . ., .... '\ .. \\ _CONCOIUJIENSlS. Feb. 13.1917 ISC to Meet on . Campus March · 2 You are ·-cordiaUy invited to attend the Independent • Stud$nt Coalitio~ .·regional semJitar, sponsored by· Union· College. Date:·. Wednesd.y, ·March· Z, 1977 ;- Tinte: · 3:3~·6:110 .p.in,; -Place: Strauss LQunge, Carnegie Hall, Union College, Schenectady~·New York- · - .. · The agenda -will· include: · · ~ ISC's ·-d¥velopme·rit, structur~ and function- -·· · ' · · -. .::.,__ Th~ legislative pro-cess - Pteseotatiorr · of · ISC's : 1917 Legislative ~ogranr cbapt~rs ....-..: Questto~and answel: se~sion -·' ·. · . The · lndepende,n·t Stude-nt . Coalitif,m was formed in_: July. of ·· 1976 f<rr , the -purpose of ··rep_resenting the 260;000 ·.students _in .the, inde:Pe~J.de.nt . ~ector . of - higher e.ducat~on in New· Yerk . ·$«!te, 't· is the goal Qf IS<;::- to br.ing the plight of higher . e.dui:uUion_ :)n . this .. state, · particularly :in the independent ·'.sector, .to :•,the ·attention of students, ci,t1zens and· _ . public officials .. The Cabaret, .afarniliar scene, threa~ened by dwinc;lling involvement.--- ~ Lobbying strategy - Implementation of campus ISC is composed of student - repr-esentatives .from- independent colleges a-nd universities thr-oughout -the state. A three person staff is lo.cated in Albany to coordinate a p,rogram of legislative ad:v:ocacy and ta· fo!!ter • • Troubles Ahead by PAUL CASTRATARO marked dearth in performers As with many of the other willing to M.C. a Cabaret, . but options in entertainment available there has also bee!l a significant to the Union College student this decrease in the number of those winter term, Cabaret has been willing to wmk behind the scenes, met with a general lack of interest as technicians, waiters and on the part of the Union kitden hands ... There is little community. interest,\ remarked Portin, \either According ~o Sue Portin~ actively or passively.\ Caba£et's talent coordinator and In these respects, Cabaret has overall program directQr, _ the fallen down considerably since response to- Cabaret this term has last ·term, but not for lack of been .. less than encouragjng.\ trying. Cabaret's manag(mient is Audiences in the past few weeks always 1 oo king for new have often dwindled into the approaches to improve an teens, frequently with fewer than essentially good idea, to provide a ten spectators present at the late lively yet inexpensiw source of show. Says Portin, in entertainment to the Union consideration of this lack. of College community. To begin passive participation, \it is no with, . Cabaret charges $1.00 for wonder that we've been having admission to each of its Thursday difficulties finding people willing night shows,. a.n all-inclusive price are in need of financial support. assistance of m!J.ny notable communicati'bii within the Student Activities is called upon- Unionites. Another such. independent 5ector. f?r s~pport only ~~en u~usual :perfot;ma~ce is in the planiling lt is essential that independent fmanctal problems an~e, as m.t~e stages, as 1 s .a Cabaret soap op~ra college students across the state event of a slow season def1c1t. spoof, an R,A Q.baret; a Senior . have a. voic.l! in the. ~gisla~ive Unusually large profits are sim,ply Cabaret, and a Parent's Wt:ekend proces:~ that .will determine the reinvested, in the...-- hope of C<ibaret. Cabaret has now also . future of higher education in New improving both the quality of instituted a: drink special with the . Yor~ ~tate., .In order t? insure Cabaret and its attractiveness to Pub, whereby the bottom of the ,that th1s becomes a reahty, ISC the Union .student. Cabaret ticket stub is good for -~ust ask fOF' the support of all Such was the case with the one discounted drink at the Pub mdependent s.ector students in the enormously_ successful Thursday on Thursday nights. · state.. 1 , Night Dead, staged w'ith ·the ' · Ya.ur.attei\d_ance atthis seminar _is·· $trong•y · encoutage~ .. : _and I d .welcomed. It wiH ·ptovide· an Hum- _ -an--·l-t.le-s -B- u-· 1 . __ . -_· lng- _ opportunitY; to find out .more _ . _ _ _ _ about ISC .and to present your views and. concerns to the 0 P -en· e d f.o· r organization.· Also, ISC is now _ _ _ . making pla;ns . for its spring lobbying efforts,. and we ne.ed T .,. h s d. your help. _ W 1 -I g t ~\ .'!<1 · y · ; .f : f.QI'• fu-~:th~r .:iQ~o.nnat:iop.- 1 'please . _ ~ ~: .- _ ~~ . . . _ _;,~- ~ ·\•canUttt~Jilij'Lip -:· _';·_ .-. _:... ~· ~ •. , •. _:' _.- • .. . <' •.• : :.- ;~ _.:.'-: .L · · .. \ .. -_ _ ~r lng((. Pa~lo. .. ~1: the J.S(;: _.office. to perform. NoL many ''people\' \fl.iich ~uaran~ees an entertaining .z- ._.,- would find m'(lch . enjgyoient act, a p1tctu;r .(;)f .beer, and.a,ll~the preparing and ~~rfot-milii' in ~ p,~anut_~.yo_P~\\. ~.c5).Uld ~; P.9S~tbly entire half-hour show if only five consu':lle tn an evenmg. or .six people are around to see A~cotdmg t<> Sue Porten, the it.\ Ms. Portin apologizes for the pnce Cab~ret .charges has b~en frequent lateness of publicity of regulated 1n vtew of preservmg the past few weeks but asserts Cabaret's.autonomy, and not with that, in the absence' of available the acquisition of profits in mind. Dean Brownlee, in an act ~f. ;'tudent .l,.lle Cotnmtttee'orattend: · .. If you wdl .~e. unable~~ attend, faith, has asked that the the meeting scheduled for M~rch please try and enco.urag~ others acts, it has been unavoidable. Costs Workers Needed Large expenses, like the Not only have new acts been purchase of a new sound system, reluct~nt to make appearances _ are handled, ther~fore, by outside placing .a heavier load on the old sources such . as the Presidential reliables t~at have ap.peared time Discretionary Fund, a grant made and again on the Cabaret stage _ directly from President Bonner to and not only has there been a those organizations that he feels Humor D:iscussed Communications theorist Peter G. Ossorio, associate professor of psychology at the University of Colorado in Boulder, will lecture on \A Funny Way to Study Humor\ Wednesday, March 3, at Union College. His lecture will be at 8:30 p.m. in Room 016 of the Social Sciences Building. The public is invited at no charge. Prof. Ossorio will speak on humor as a means of communication. He has been doing research on the nature of humor for several ~ears. He has also been assembling a computer simulation of human judgment and behavior. This he has done -within If' system he has labelled \descriptive psychology.\ In addition to his work at the University of Colorado, Prof. Ossorio is a practicing clinical psychologist. He took his B.A. and Ph.D. degrees from the University of California at Los Angeles. He has taught at the University of Colorado since 1961. Prof. Ossorio's talk is part of the Ichabod Spencer Lecture Series. Humanities building be re-opened 31 to diseuss tli~ issue. on your campu~ to come! for late night study until the end of the term. The building had been closed at the beginning of the term due to vandalism and general misuse. The re-opening was decided upon with the understanding that.!lQY repetition of past problems would be cause for . the building's _ immediate closing. Specifically, the Dean requested that all windows be left closed, the lights turned off, and the room put in order for early classes before a student leaves. SS115, damaged through students' carelessness, cost the school approximately $·1500 to repair. ln addition, the Dean expects a proposal for student monitoring of the building to be forthcoming early ne:x.t term. Students interested in having the building re-opened in the spring. under stwl.ent monitoring. should contact a member ot the Course Offered o~ U!!ion's' tli~~C)ry Martin ·Lichterman, Distin... .Glenn . Wotf~on, ·a s~nior guished Professor of History and His~ory-Cheniistry major, Higher Education, will teach a received a research grant this past course about the histary of liberal summer in order to prepare the education in the United States course. Wolfson _ said, \The this spring term. This course, history of Union will be examined whioh will be cross-listed as a in an effort to explain,_Union's Comprehensive Education course contribution to higher education (History 114/Comp. Ed. 105), under t-he presidencies of will trace the period from the Eliphalet Nott, Eliphalet Nott fQtinding of Harvard in 163.6 to Pott~t, Harrison Webster, and the resignation of Andrew V. Andrew Raymond. In addition, Raymont;l, 9th President of Union theories will be presented to College in 1907. While the course explain why Union, the richest will concentrate on the general and most respected college in the history of liberal education, nation in 1845 (excepting special attention will be given to Harvard}/~. plummeted to· the· history of Union College unpr-ecedented depths during the during the 19th century. last· ~alf of the 19th century.\ Does Life Have a Price? ,\t v.h..1L puw! dlJ Lh..: 1-inan,·i;il ~un~.Jt:lallull~ u! kcrping 3 -'>~--LiL~) .:: 1.d ~llJl~J<.;J IJL.I', ,:1 ;di\·: uUl\'.Clgll tlit.: :nural LO!l)>l{h:l a lion;,'.' At • what poi ht, in ntht:l V.\11 J~. dtH.:> late )iffiply ht:ClHTlC (OI'l LU~tl\ i I hat Will bt: tlu,; tup11.. ul J lecture I hunday {I ch. 24) at Umon College by noted social phtlosopher Mtchael Bayles, edttor ot .. Contemporary Uttlitanamsm\ and a fellow at the Hasttngs Institute for Society. Ethtcs. and Life Science. Dr. Bayles' lecture. ..The Price of Ltfe ... wtll be at 4 p.m. in Room 207 of Union College's Bailey Hall Adrni~<;inn i~ free to the ruh lie In hi, t~flr. Or H;:tvle~ wtl! dt\\.'liiS the cthiral and fimmrial con~1deration'i neceo;~ary to dcterm111e the . proflriety of d~veloplll!:\ ilfe- ... aVIIlg tccbuulug1c~ I he lcct ure. spomorcd JOintly by the Health Studies Center and the Philosopl'ly Department, will be attended by those involved in Union College's strong bioen~ gineering program, much of whose effort is devoted to developing the li.fe~saving technologies tbat Dr. Bayles will speak on. Prof. Marty Lichterman to offer a· course on liberal educalilm. by T and ray1 tid it gatl t:eSI pa~ ext fm~ inti tha en~ Ciei pat Sh1 it. .. 1 ~ to ~ to' otl mi: hi! YOI mt w~ ba at wa ali Tl n wl th .us ar Tl Al ge dl cr hi 1'1 01 81 m Cl fa \' Cl ll Cl b rc a c it ... b ~

·. _.,.:t t k 0 , ior ast of on, to the ing to' the CONCOR.J)JENSIS, Feb. 23, 1977 rrr'--- · - · ·, ·r·· -· AUce in Unionland, Pt 3 • • by DAVE MENI)~LSOHN The night passed uneventfully and Alice awoke With the surfs rays, feeling much refreshed. She tidied herself as best as she c:ould, gathered her belongings, and r:esumed the search for· a new path. This search was q~ite extensive, indeed.When she fmally came upon. one, it was well into the afternoon. She guessed that she must have been near the1 end of the trail• 'for ~I tbe creatures _s~udylng there were partYing and igtloffng their texts.· She saw the white rabbit, hailed it. \Oh! Mister! Mist¢r ttabbit.\ The hare looked up. ~uenor .. Hell9, Mr. Rabbit.\ She ran to him. ~~ don't believe we've met.\ \Why surely! I stopped you toward the junction just the other' ... \ \No no, no. I'm afraid you're mistaken._ I mean, 1 may be a little high, but I'd know you if I met you. Now, if yoll'il excuse me, 1 must ... \But •.. \ Ali~ ~ut herself off when she noticed that there were half a dozen other white rabbits at varipus points along the walkway. '\Oh my goodness! You all look alike!\ '\Pardon me?'' \'Those rabbits down there. They all look exactly Uke you.\ ••They do? Well; let's. see. , They're all rabbits and they're all white. So? Say, did you know that when 1 was a little bunny, I .used• to read Play.,uy for the articles'? Cheechl Think of that!\ Tbe rabbit was in9hing clo~r to Alice,and sh~ noticed that he was getting a Slll311 pink erection. \You're aU the same!\ The card next to h:im looked at Alice analytically. He had sloppily painted a ten of hearts symbol over what bad obviously been a two of diatn()nds. ~Don't look like a Skidmore chick to m.e.\ He went back to w()rk ·painting roses. · .. AU the ~me,. I'd ·like to know where the hell I arn,\ Alice said at the end of her .patience. The two cardmem looked at each other. ..Wby, you're in Matriculation City, ma'am. · Doatcha see the Queen's palace?\ Alice looked \IP tlle hill where the seven of clubs was pointing. \Oh should I go tllere'l\ \You'd better, ~less you want to be· here fQtever.\ Alice thanked them and started towards the palace courtyard. She soon came u,pon a fteld where the· royalty of Matri~ulation City were busy playing croquet . .•. There, on a throne behind a croquet hoop, tbe Queen sat serenely watching a Trustee strike the ball. \Pardon rne,\ Alice started, ~but can you tell me~ .. \ \Welllll Congratulations!\ the Queen gpshed in the gruff voice of a flaccid ruler. ~·very fine work. Now what trail did. you come on, dear7\ The Queen held a pieee of sheepskin wiih a proclamation on it. \I'm Qot quite sure where I was last but I ,.I\ \You wbat ?!?\ the Queen bawled. \ You doa.,t know ? My dear girl, people come to Matriculation City for one thing and one thing only. That is to get thi&. ~roclamation I now hold in my hand. How can 1 fill it out if you haven't followed some kind of path? Guaids!\ she screamed. \'Off with: her hea ... \ \well I've learned a great deat l just bavc11't followed any path aU the '!Wa..y. l guess you, could say I follo\iPicd the physics path.\ \Yo~a'c()_uldn't say'? Did you do the stanclard mileage on. it?\ on tt.T\\ \Wmy yes, 1 think so, but rm nQt stxre if I want to do physics for the rest of my life; Can I ... \ \Yo11' - don't ~ave to do anythi:llg, deary. Just take this sheep~in and be gone!\ \De:ar me,\ Alice started to cry. .. This is :a strange plaee.\ \What are you whimpering about?'· the Queen demanded. .. WeU, I don't know. For one Page3 £ End of the Road thins, I just don't think Unionland was right for me, if any Academieland is. Y 01,1 see, the Hatter knew a great deal of :physics but he wasn't learning much about being ... .. Being what?\ '\About being.\ \You speak in riddles. Didn't you make this journey for the sheepskin 1 just gave your• \Well yes, but I also came for the journey itself. The folks here don't seem to come here for the journey.\ \If you learned nothing from the journey itself, my dear girl, then there is no-one to blame but yourself. Besides, these are intelligent animals. They can journey as much as they please.\ \Well that may be so,\ Alice n:plied, \but they don't.\ \'Bah!\ the Queen-roared. \Bah indeed,., Alice snapped defensively ... Where I come from, the roses don't have to be painted! And if they come up white~ we stop and ask ou~lves if they aren't prettier white.\ \You are an impolite little pip, little girl! White roses indeed!\ Alice covered her ears against . the Queen's screams. She tore off for the trail entrance. She tucked her sheepskin under her arm and cried her way into the forest. But Alice was a very shrewd little girl. She figured that there was still one way out of tllis hopeless dilemma. She had only to pinch herself and wake up. Why, of course, it was all a dream! Or perhaps a nightmare. How else could four years ever have gone so fast? Alice pinched herself hard and waited for a sleepy vision of a garden where her sister read geography from a silly book without pictures. Nothing came. She pinched again. Again, she felt only. pain. Finally, Alice knew that she was hopelessly lost in the land with no clear notion of where she wanted to go. The dusk turned to dark as Alice sat weeping on a tree stump, the toothy smile of the Cheshire Cat hanging in mid- air above her, grinning out with evil and murmuring softly .•. ~well. You can always go to Grad school ... \ The rabbit jum,ped back and dropped ' his paws to cover his · c:rotch. \Oh- no, no, no. Now that hare's got a ... oh ... well. 1 .gUess I've got one of those too. But that Pre-Professionalism and Union one's ..•. hmm.\ · Alice didn't wait for the by ALLISON .JAMESON answer. She· just skipped over a; muttering red-eyed creature and Applying to l;tw school or continued doWil tl\e trail. medical school is us-ually· a major As ~e had expected, she wasn't decision for amy student. far from the end and so she- soon Associated with these Qlreer came to a huge_ opening in the choices are the many problems of trail with courtyard after graduate school applications and courtyard of lUsh green grass. requirements. Professor Joseph Odd men with playing cards for Board, pre-law advisor, and Dr. bodies were busily painting all the Willard Roth, pre-med advisor, roses red. The roses, as it seems, have taken an active role in aiding all grew up colorless here. students to remedy these She approached .a s.even of problems. . clubs. \Pardon me,\ she Both Profs. Board and Roth interrupted, \but where am I?\ indicated that there is an \Sheeeit the seven answered. increasing willingness on the part \I've seen 'em come it h()pped up of students to attend schools .before, but they ·always knew . outside of the Northeast .. Law where they were.'' schools in Boston, New York,. and Pre•med advisor Willard Roth at work, Washi:llgton .are in great demand, incteafihi~ the competition in these areas and making it harder to get iDto the· choice schools. Studemts. can often get into better schools. in ·other parts of the country. Altbougll pre-rqed students are willing w attend schools farther away, nost don't apply because so ma.ny schools have restrictions on tt.e number of out--of-state studeDts they accept. Southern and rnid-western schools accepting less than 20% out-of- state students are common. Also, most of Union's pre-meds come from New York, New Jersey, Penns;ylvania, and Massachusetts. These same states produce one- third of all the pre-meds in the count.-y. Dr. Roth suggests that some !lcbools may not be as select with t:h~e students because there are sa many of them. Pr~i. Board indicated that law schools look first at a student's cu,m end then the board scores. Schools rarely grant interviews becaU:Se of the time and trouble involved. He says that such interviews wotdd probably only make a difference in marginal cases. Uniom has a good reputation with law schools. In a-ny given year 12\ Union graduates might make the law review at their scbo~ls. In. recent years, Union alumni have been valedictorians at Nortllwestem, Yale, and N. Y.U. The success of our gtad11ates belps the students who are aJJplying. Un io11's reputation with medical schools is also good. U nio11 students generally do well, althollgh they are rarely in the top 10% of their classes. Dr. Roth says tll.at Union has an even bette£ reputation with dental \schools than with medical schools. Acceptances The success a student 'has in getting accepted at law schools de~nds on his or her strategy; according to Prof. Board. The student should know his or her cum and board scores and apply to ·appropriate schools. He says that most students have a realistic idea of their chances. Most students apply'ing to law schools go to Board for advising, but there's no organization like the pre-med .board in existence. Prof. Board says there's no common core for pre-law students, like the pre-meds have in their science courses. Dr. Roth reports th!!t the average Union pre-med applies to about 25 schools (at $25 or $30 an application). Applying tQ less than 15 schools is risky, he said. Students from Union with a 3.7 or better average have very little problem. There are many students in the 3.35-3.55 tier, though, and medical schools have a hard time choosing among them. They are forced to rely on the MCA T's, on which many Union students don't do particularly well. He says that the lack of plus and minus grades hurts Union students in that it makes it hard for schools to distinguish the better students. Serious pre-dental students with a 3.0 or better have a good chance of being accepted. However, if a student applies to both medical and dental schools, the dental schools won't take them in most cases. Majors Law schools accept students with aU majors and all perform equally well. At Union, .political science is the largest single major chosen by pre-law students. Prof. Board says that the commercial cram courses .that some students take haven't shown evidence of materially affecting scores on the LSATs. In fact, the Boston qffice of the Federal Trade Commission is investigating them on the grounds of false and misleading advertising. For pre-meds, biology and chemistry are the most frequently chosen majors. It's not necessary to major in them, but many students are inter~sted in these fields. Dr. Roth tells us that medical schools don't want a: student body with a heavy science background. Having a non- science major is an asset, within limits. Union has had students accepted who majored in classics, English, art, economics, history, and engineering. In fact, nationwide, the percentage of the students accepted with non.,. science majors is as high as the percentage with science majors. PBK Dollars The Union College chapter of Phi Beta Kappa announces a new program providing support for student research proj'bcts. Requests for support '\vill be evaluated on the basis of project merit and personal financial need. The research expenses nee<j not be course-related. Preliminary proposals of o11e or two paragraphs accompanied by endorsement from a faculty member should be submitted to Professor Ginsberg by Tuesday, March 15. Any questions concerning this program should be addressed to Dean Potts or Sam Casella (372..;3033). Because of limited funds available, requests should normally not exceed fifty dollars and in no case will funding be provided beyond one hundred dollars. '. ' ' • r I .. , :~:.~· ... t,j: .• • .1, •• ~ ,\ ~:,,r. l•-< • .iJJ.C.j { .. ~,.. *'' ~~~·oh .~ :i:f I .11 ) 'Ar.:)tlt. 'I :t!Hifi / 'j~j':lil o ._) 11 nlfl: 1 h'} \ IJL

· .. \- ·.1 If'. -,. Page4 CONCORDIENSIS. Feb: 23, 1977 . .. ' M ed Sci Taught Professor William J:o:, Bynum, M.D., Ph.O.., Bead of th~ Sub- Department of the History . Q.f Medicine, University College, London, will join. the Union College staff, for one term tbis Spring, as MeUon Lecturer in The History. of Medicine (so named because the funds for his appointment are supplied .. by a Mellon- grant administered · . by Robert Baker, Ph.D., Assistant professor of Philosophy). As. . Mellon l,e¢turer, Dr. Union College campu$ and four times at the Albany Medical College. Willa1m Bynum received his , B .. A. frQm Swarthmore (where he majored in Englis~J ill l964. He then went on to get an M.D. frorn Yale, and a Ph.D: fro.m Cambridge. He did his postdoctoral research as a U.S. Public Health Service Fellow. at the Institute ·tor;· the History of Medi.;:ine of the University of Zurich (S.witzerland). .Profe~sor Bynum is also a qualified medical doctor; be .served his interttsbip at the George-town Vnive-rsity Hospital. Prof. Robert Baker, administrator of special medica/ history coutse. Bynum will gvie -a course (Com,prehensi,ve Education 104) on the Histocy of Medical Science (17th thn;n1gh 19th centuries) and offer a faculty seminar open to·:all members of the Union Univetsity faculty, to meet five times on. the ln addition to -serving as Head of the Sub-Department of the History of Medicine at University CoUege,Di'. Bynum· sornethnes acts as a Supervisar for. · the History of Sci~nce Trips· at Cambridge University and is on ----Financial Aid News----~ ............... - l. All uppe~:class students must file the Parents' Confidential Statement or the Student's Confidential Statement and the Mast~r Application eacb year by March I in order to be considered for renewal of a previous award or to be considered for an initial upperclass award. Failure to meet this requirement could result in being disqualified for consideration. · · 2. Under the present p~:oced.ures and criteria employed in evaluating awards for the upperclass, the earliest time that notification of renewal awards can be sent is around the first week in July. 3. Upperclass renewal requirements, procedures and criteria: a. There must be a demonstrated financial need each year as determined .by CSS. b. The recommendations of the Committee on Student Aid (which is made up of two faculty members, two students and the Director of Student Aid) are based on criteria that include the contributions that a student has made to the College in the academic and extracurricular areas, plus demonstrating the same personal qualities that were the basis for awarding aid originally. Because of the -confidential nature of the decisions on fina_ncjal 3;id awards, the student members do not participate in this function of the Lonimtttee. c. No student is guaranteed the same award. each year; however, the historical record · shows very clearly that, providing the criteria for renewal is met, there is an assurance of assistance throughout the four years. The Committee on Student Aid attempts to follow the judgment of the Committee on Freshmen Admissions and Scholarships ·in lHoportionat.ely - packaging upperclass- renewals along the same lines as the original award. 4. Factors affecting a change in an award: a. Changes in family income; adjustments for outside awards received after an award has been made; the number in same family in college; family and student assets and incomes; residency - on-campus·, off-campus or commuting - all of these play a very significant part in the need assessment and can result in radical changes at times. Under the prevailing policy, there is no automatic reduction in an award as a student advances toward graduation. b. Another very important factor in these days of escalating costs and reduced income, is a budgetary one. The Student Aid Office operates under a budget just as any other department on campus. The amount of financial aid avaiiable, be it scholarship, loan or job dollars, college, federal or state, for distribution in AIR FORCE ROTC IS NOW BEING OFFERED BY Captain Gary L. Fullmer AS & RC Rm. 317 RPI Phone: 270·6236 and here are some facts that should interest you about that: • Courses open to college men and women. • No service obligation now. • Full scholarships available that pay tuition, all fees, plus a $100 a month tax-free allowance. • An Air Force officer commission when you receive your baccala- ureate. • The opportunity to get to know the spirit that made our nation great. \ Air Force ROTC Gateway to a Great Way of Life any gwen year ·plays a, very cl'itical role in the amount and type of finanCial aid \package\ that can be offered. Tltese uncertainties compel aU of us to be prepared to adjust in diverse ways should significant chaJlges occur in funding; e;g., inadequate funding under the NDSL program could result in a student's having to substitute a Guaranteed I,.oan in place of it. The schola~;ship budget, which is made up -of funds from endowed, ceUe..s.e and annual funds, has been added to each -time,there has been an·increase in tuition costs. -In the .a,c~demic year . 1972-73; the amQunt of ·scholarships from operating income was 50% of the total budget; -in 1976-77,. tl:lis perce.ntage.is 67%. Obviously, this continued· inc.-ease in drawing funds from operating. income has many implications and is a matter of great concern and study at the present time. Next week's alticle will covet the various state financial aid programs. · the editorial board of The -Journal ot tlte History of Medicille wad Allied Sciences. He has .. eighteen articles and monographs published or in pr-ess-. These range in ·subject -fr.om a study of the assimilation· of inebriation: to .the medical model (' Bull• Hist. Med., 1968) to art analysis Df l·9th Century molecular pharma.coiogy. Dr. Bynum is presently working on a book ort the problems that biolo·gical theory and contemporary conceptions of man created. t'or each other b\:tween 1800 and 1860. Women's Caucus Active by ALLISON JAMESON Although it may come as a surprise to many, there has existed at Union for the past five years a group especially for women. The Women's Caucus is presently the only formal, all- women's organization on campus. Under chairpersons Lisa Rogovin and Gem Mitchell, the purpose of the Caucus is to augment the role of women on campus. It provides a common meeting ground, promotes discussion of pertinent topics, and arranges functions whereby women can become better acquainted with each other and with leading women in the community. In connection with . the Speaker's Forum, the Caucus has also brought in several women speakers from outside the campus. The Women's Center is located on the second floor of Carnegie. Open meetings are usually held on Thursdays at 7 pm. Hopefully, the Center will soon be open several nights a week for study purposes. ANTHONY LEWIS TO SPEAK FEB, 28 _ON SUPREME COURT New York Times columnisl. and law reporter Anthon} Lewis will talk here on the future direction of the Supreme Court Monday, Feb. .28. His talk will be at 3:30 .p.m. in Room 016 of the Social Sciences Building. Lewis began his career as a deskman for the New York . Times in 1948. In 1955 and 1963 he won the Pulitzer Prize for national reporting. He was a Nieman fellow a:t Harvard in 1956-57, and in 1955 was awarded the Heywood Broun award. · Lewis, a Harvard graduate, is the author of .. Gideon's Trumpet,\ Which in 1965 received the Mystery Writers award for the best fact-crime . book. Lewi.s i.s coming to . Schenectady to speak in the Freedom Forum Series Monday evening. The Women's Caucus would like to hear the viewpoint of all campus women concerning the opportunities and setbacks presented to them as Union students. It also encourages suggestions for future activities that would appeal to a broad group -of women. Special Weekend An opportunity to air ideas, become acquainted with the Caucus, and meet other Union women will be presented this weekend. Women's Weekend is held every year a~ a get-together which is meant to be both enjoyable and informative. Thi's year the theme is ·~wom~ as a Decision Maker\. For anyone who is interested in partiCipating· in some of the discussions or would just like to get together in a •Casual atmosphere, · this •Weekend is designed for them. • Starting off at 4:30 p.m. on Friday, February 25, there will be an informal cocktail party in Strauss Lounge. All women are encouraged to drop by and. bring friends. On Saturday afternoon. from 24 there will be a service training workshop in Strauss Lounge. Here, profe~ssional women will discuss ·their ideas about decision making and how major decisions could be reached. On Sunday at II a.m.. bmnch and · a panel discussion Will be held in Milano Lounge. Paula Brownlee, Pat and Les Downing, Terese Amt>rusco, Suzanna Miller, and Phyhis O'Flattery Will discuss the different a$pects of their roles as decision makers. In addition, the \Vomen's Cauc1,1s is hoking forward to Women's Week this spring. It will be held from April 24-30 and · should include something of interest for everone. The· Caucus is, as ()f yet. a small organization. but it has big ideas. It is in the pr<Jcess of growing and hopes to achieve a greater: degree Of di,lersity by taking in the ideas of all those who . are. interested4 With additional support, it als() hopes to provide a more widely recognized organi~tion that represents- all Union .v<;:men. Parents' Weekend Coming This year, Union's Annual Parents; Weekend will be held from Friday, May 6 through Sunday, May 8. As in past years, various events are planned for the entertainment of both parents and students. As' part of last year's events Benny Goodman performed a jazz recital at Achilles Rink. A concert is again scheduled for Saturday this year; performing will be · drummer Buddy Rich. After arriving and registering on Friday, parents will be .given a tour of the campus by gatesmen. Many events are planned to fill the following days. The movie \Horsefeathers\ will ·be shown, a Marx Brothers~ classic which appropriately takes place orl a college campus. Other performa11ces include a Coffeehouse; a Cabaret, an Intellectual Cabaret, and a possible Organ Recital by Professor Hugh Allan Wilson. · Various athletic event~ are planned as well. Union's tennis, .lacrosse, softball, and baseball teams all will be playing at home that weekend. Prize Day Will be held in Library Plaza on Saturday morning, May 7, when awards will be presented to assorted Union students. These prizes include, among others, financial awards, and pewter mugs or cups. Although this weekend is still in its planning stages, students, faculty,. and staff are h()ping for an exciting time. Alaur Liquor Center Liquors ..,._ Wines - Cordials 7Sl'h EASTERN ,<\VE. CORNER JACKSO\N . Lq~EST P~ICE~ ALLOW'EP IN . ...• , . , ~.Y, S11\Tp .• , .. ~ • , • , CoJ by DJ Why such femini~ such suppos a collc the!le 1 which fear tl concer equali2 opport spirit< short, respon positiv action~ work· wome Washi Equi Educa Fund} forma,1 biases misun misdir legisla econo1 Firs equali like 1 racial new phras H Aft1 for a Last broug interv consi< the v~ the 1 Searc The the s' few c the Com1 Potts an o repre Ba: looki pract fami auto I cand: accre sho' schol not Libn take basic func1 lola A1 and the : new s ~· .. . '

Page4 CONCORDIENSlS, Feb; 23~ 1977 Med Sci Taught Professor W.illiarn F. Bynum, M.D., P·b.D:, Head of the Sub- Department of ·the History uf Medicine, UniveFsity Coilege, London, will join the Union College staff, for one term this Spring, as Mellon Lecturer in The History. of Medicine (so named because the funds for his appointment are supplied .hy a Mellon. grant .administered by Robert .. Baker, Ph.D •• Assistant Professor of Philosophy). As . Mellon Lecturer, Dr. Union College campus and four times at . the Albany Medical College., - .. W'ilialm Bynum received his . . B.A. fr.om Swarthmore (where he majored in English) . .:.~1 1964. He then went on to get an M.D~ from Yale, and a PhJ). from Cambridg:e, He did his postdoctQral re11earch as a U.S. Public Health Service Fellow. at the l'nstitute ·for::· the History of Medicine Qf the Univer.sity of Zurich {Switzerland). Professor 8ynum is also.a qualified medical doctor; he served his internship at the Georgetown University Hospital. · · . . . Bynum will gvie. a· course (Comprehensive Educ:;ttion 104) on the History of 'Medi~al Sdence (17th through 19th centuries) and offer a faculty . seminar open to -all members ·of the Union Uni:vendty faculty, to .meet five times on the In addition to· setv:ing ~,ts Head of the Sub~Department of the History of Medicine at University College,Dr. Synum sometimes acts as a Superviser for. · the History of Sci~nce Trips ·at Cambridge University and is on Prof Robert Baker, administrator of special medical history course. ----Financial Aid: N·ews------~-- 1. AU upperclass students must file the Parents' Confidential Statement or the Student's Confidential Statenl,ent atJ.d the Master Application each year by March 1 in order to be considered for renewal of a previous award or to be considered for an initial upperclass award. Failure to meet this requirement could result in being dis qualified for consideration. 2. Under the ·present· procedures and criteria employed in evaluating awards for the upperclass, the earliest time that notification t>f renewal awards can be sent is around the first week in July. 3. Upp.erclass renewal requirements, procedures and criteria: a. There mus,t be a demonstrated fin.ancia.l need each year as determined by CSS. b. The recommendations of the Committee on Student Aid (which is made up of two faculty members, two students and the Director of Student Aid) are based on criteria that include the contributions that a student has made to the College in the academic and extracurricular areas, plus demonstrating the same personal qualities that were the basis f<Jr awarding aid originally. Because of the confidential nature of the decisions on fina)lc_i~l ~id awards, the student members do not participate in this function of the Lomm1ttee. c. No student is guaranteed the same award. each year; however, the historical record. shows very clearly that, providing the criteria for renewal is Diet, there is art assurance of assistance throughout the four years. The Committee on Student Aid attempts to follow the judgment of the Committee on Freshmen Admissions and Scholarships ·in proportionat.ely : packaging upperclass renewals al<>ng · the same lines as the original award. 4. Factors affecting a change in an award: a. Changes in family income; adjustments ·for outside awards received after an award has been made; the number in same family in college; family arid student assets and incomes; residency - on-campus., off-campus or commuting - all of these play a very significant part in the need assessment and can result in radical changes at times. Under the prevailing policy, there is no automatic reduction in an award as a student advances toward graduation. b. Another very important factor in these days of escalating costs and reduced income, is a budgetary one. The Student Aid Office operates under a budget just as any other department on campus. The amount of financial aid avaiiab1e, be it scholarship, loan or job dollars, college, federal or state, for distribution in AIR FORCE ROTC IS NOW BEING OFFERED BY Captain Gary L. Fullmer AS & RC Rm. 317 RPI Phone: 270-6!36 and here are some facts that should interest you about that: • Courses open to college men and women. • No service obligatipn now. • Full scholarships available that pay tu.ition, all fees, plus a $100 a month ta.x-free allowance. • An Air Force officer commission when you receive your baccala- ureate. • The opportunity to get to know the spirit that made our natioq great. Air Force ROTC Gate\Way to a Grea1 Way of Life any gtven year plays a . very critical role in the amount and type of financial aid· .. package\ that can he offered. These uncert~inties compel· a.ll of us to be prepared to adjust in diverse ways should significa~t changes occur in funding; e.g.,. inadequate funding under the NDSL program could result in a student's having to substitute a Guaranteed Lo~m in place of it. The scholarship budget, which is inade up ·of funds from endowed, colle.,ge and annual funds, has been added to each ·time,there has been an.increase in tuition costs •. In the acadeini~ year 1972-73, the amount of scholarships from operating · income was SQ% of the total budget; in 1976 .. 77 ,. this percentage.is 67%. Obviously, this . continued increase in drawing funds fr<>m operati 0 g. income bas many implications and is a matter of great concern and s'tudy at the present time. Ne~t week's article will cover the various state .financial aid programs. · the editorial board of The .Joumal of ,the History of Medieine and Allied Scienc«ls, He has eighteen a·rticles. and monogr;iphs published or in pt.ess. Thest;. mnge in ·subject -fram a study of th~ assimilation: of inebtiation to .the medical mOdel (' ·Bull~ Kist. Metl.,- 1968) to an analysis of· 1·9th. Century molecular pharmacology. Dr. Bynum is presently working on a book on the problems that biolo.gical theory and .contemporary conceptions of man ·created for ea-ch other between 1800 and l 860. Women's Caucus Active by ALLISON JAMESON Although it may come as a surprise to many, there has existe<J at Union for tlte past five years a group especially for women. The Women's Caucus is presently the only formal, all- women's organization on campus. Under chairpersons Lisa Rogovin and Gem Mitchell, the purpose of the Caucus is to augment the role of women on campus. It provides a common meeting ground, promotes discussion of pertinent topics, and arranges functions whereby women can become better acquainted with each other and with leading women in the community. In connection with . the Speaker's Forum, the Caucus has also brought in several women speakers from outside the campus. The Women's Center is located on the second floor of Carnegie. Open meetings are usually held on Thursdays at 7 pm. Hopefully, the Center will soon be open several nights a week for study purposes. ANTHONY LEWIS TO SPEAK FEB. 28 ON SUPREME COURT New York Times columnis1, and law reporter Anthon} Lewis will talk here on the ·future direction of the Supreme Court Monday, Feb. · 28. His talk will be at 3:30 .p.m. in Room 016 of the Social Sciences Building. Lewis began his career as a deskman for the New York Times in 1948. In 1955 and 1963 he won the Pulitzer Prize for national reporting. He was a Nieman fellow at Harvard in 1956-57, and in 1955 was awarded the Heywood Broun award. Lewis, a Harvard graduate, is the author of \Gideon's Trumpet,\ which in 1965 received the Mystery Writers · award for the best fact~rime · book. · Lewis is coming to Schenectady to speak in the Freedom Forum Serie~ Monday evening. The Women's Caucus would like to hear the viewpoint of all campus women concerning the opportunities and setbacks presented to them as Union students. It also encourages suggestions fm future activities that would appeal to a broad groqp ·of women. Spetial Weekend An opportunity to air ideas, become acquainted with th¢ Caucus, and meet other Union women will be presented this weekend. Women's Weekend is held every year as a get-together which is meant to be both enjoyable and inf.ormative. This year the theme is ''Woman as a Decision Maker\. For anyone who is interested in participating in. some of the discussions or would just like to get together in a •casual atmosphere, this • weekend is designed fot: them. • Starting off at 4:30 p.m. on Friday, February 25, there will be an informal cocktail party in Strauss Lounge. AU women are encouraged to drop by and. bring friends. On Saturday afternoon. from 2.-4 there will be a service training WQrkshop in Strauss Lounge. Here, professional women will discuss their ideas about decision making and how major decisions could be reached. On Sunday at ll a:m., brunch and · a panel discussion will be held in Milano Lounge. Paula Brownlee, Pat and Les Downing, Terese Ambrusco, Suzanna Miller, and Phyhis O'Flattery will discuss the different aspects of their roles as decision· makers. In addition, the Women's Caucus is hoking forward to Women's Week this spring. It will be held from April 24-30 and should include something of interest for evetone. The Caucus is, as ·of yet, a small organization, but it has big ideas. It is in the process of growing and hopes to achieve a greater: degree of diversity by taking in the ideas of all those who , ate interested. With additional support, it also hopes to provide a more widely recognized organiz11tion that represents aU Union .vomen. Parents' Weekend Coming This year, U nion;s Annual Parents' Weekend will be held from Friday, · May 6 thrpugh Sunday, May 8. As in past years, various events are planned for the entertainment of both parents and students. As· .part of last year's events Benny Goodman performed a jazz recital at Achilles Rink. A concert is again scheduled for Saturday this year; performing will be drummer 8uddy Rich. After arriving and registering on Friday, parents will be given a tour of the campus by gatesmen. Many ev:ertts are planned to fill the following days. The movie \Horsefeathers.\ will be shown .• a Marx Brothers' classic which appropriately takes place on a college carnpus. Other perf or rna nces incl.ude a Coffeehouse, a Cabaret, an Intellectual Cabaret, and a ... possible Organ Recital by Professor Hugh Allan Wilson. · Various athletic events are planned as well. Union's tennis, lacrosse, softball, and baseball teams all will be playing at home that weekend. · · Prize Day will be held in Library Plaza on Saturday morning, May 7, when awards will be presented to assorted Uqion students. These prizes include, among <>thers,. financial awards, and. pewter mugs or cups. Although this weekend is still in its planning stages, students, faculty, and staff are hoping for an exCiting time. Algur Liquor C•nter Liquors -:- Wines - Cordials 751 Y1 EASTERN AVE. CORNER JACKSON . ~'o/ESTP~ICES ALLOWEP IN . ..• , , . J:li.Y, SlAT,!:. .••• • ••• • Coj b D y . Wh: such femini such suppo a coli these which fear 1 conce1 equali oppor spirit short, respo1 pr,>siti' actior: wot:k wotnc Wash Equi Educi F1111d: forltUI biase! ffi,lSUI misdi legisll econc Fir equal like racial new plt:ra: H Af1 for ~ Last brOUi inter' consi the v the Sear4 n the ! few 4 the Corn Pott: an ' reprc B< look prac fam auto cane accr, sho sch<J not Lib I take basi func Tol1 A and the nev.

1 CONCORDJENSIS. Feb. 23, 1977 -·~·~ - - .• - .. - ~ -' - .. - -;=-- Page5 sC Commentary : ·· · .. · · · · · Affirmative Action: Negative Response by QIANA LEYDEN · · .. · . . .. . affirmative action, liberation, practical application ·of legislation economic ideals of affirmative pos~ible reasons for the formation Why do words and phrases ERA,. and. 11 ssertiveness have often undermines the original action. While it is true that in the of these preconceptions, I cannot such as affirmath'e action, bomb~rcled the American publ.ic. intentions. Thus, the true purpose short run the influx of women resign myself to the continual feminism, and liberation evoke Unfortunately, many of these of affirmative action legislation is iQto the working world has projection of these attitudes by such bigoted [(!actions from wo·rds and phrases have .seldom reaH.zed because aggravated the problem of such educated people. Since, supposedly educated members of deve toped mea.nings via individual institutions often unemployment, it is not valid, to however, the movement toward a college cc,>mnuinity? Why· do associati<>n - association with defeat its purpose when they conclude that the rate of equality for wd'men with men has these Oi«lmbers of an institution indiV\iduals and sensa.tiona1 .attempt to implement it. That is, unemployment will decrease if gained enough momentum to which seeks coeducational status, events. The media bas given these when institutions consider the affirmative action ;is discarded. continue, these attitudes and, fear the applaudable ~fforts ...cof words and· ,phrases meanings price of economic and soeial What is perhaps not fully subsequently, the people who concerned men and w'omen to whidl d<> not capture the actual reform, they begin to try to recognized. is the long run hold them, will continue to equalize academic and social concepts. Hence., feminism bas minimize the cost of realizing it. advantages <>fa full strength labor become further and further out of opportunities for all in the true come to mean ~·radical, aggres!iive This consequently leads to force. The potential to reach step with reality. I can only hope spirit of the word coeducation? In actic;n toward males;·\ assertiVe minimization of ide~ls behind the higher levels of productivity is that the members of Union short, why has such a negative women are believed to be \pushy teform. ,Ignorance of economic one important economic Colleg~· recognize the need for response developefi to such a feminists;\ and affirma:ttive action factors on the part of the' consideration behin4 affirmative change and the moral positive concept as affirmative is thought . to be ••reverse architects of affirmative action action's commitment to equal consequences of stagnation. action? Drawing from my recent discrimination against men.\ legislation underlies much of its opportunities for all who seek (NOTE: For those who wish to work experience with a national These ideas; in turn, are absorbed misdirection, while a lack of employment. Therefore, while the be c; o me enlightened women's itl'i~rest group in by the media-manipulated! public commitment on the part of the initial reaction to the economic contemporaries, this weekend, Washington, D.C. (Women's. and, rtlQte frighteningly, by the institutions' admi~istrators and threat of increased unemployment February 25th, 26th and 27th, has Equity Action League \free-thinking college edUcated members toward the ideals of might be considered valid, the been designated Women's Educational and Legal Defense elites~\ The input by these swayed affirmative action results in prolonged belief .that affirmative Weekend. On Feb. 25th. the Fund), l Would attribute . the elites into the media circuit mismanagement. action iS.economically unsound, is Women's Caucus will sponsor a forma,tion and • projection of completes a cyclic~l pattern which Finally, the third factor which not. It is indeed frightening that cocktail party in Strauss Lounge biases :to three factor-s: (I) generates ~n immediate negative has indirectly contributed to the this unfounded belief is fostered Jr()m 4:30 to 6:00 p.m. ·On misunderstood jargon; (2) response ~nd .fur.ther reinforces for:mation and projection of by many members of college Saturday, Feb. 26th in Strauss misdirected and mismanaged assimi)il:ted archaic ideals. · prejUdices is the current economic communities. Lo\lnge an Assertiveness legislation; and (3) increased · Till second factor which aides pressure. This pressure has In conclusion, I find it quite Workshop will operate from 2:00- economic ·pressures. the creation and application of culmi~ted in an incredible unsettling that the members of 4:00 p.m. On Sunday, Feb. 27th, First, tbe movement for pr,ejud<iced reactions is decrease in the number of this college community continue a brunch will be held at Hale equalitY among men and women, misdirected and mismanag¢d employment opportunities to harbor many deep .rooted House (Milano Lounge). At this like the earlier movement for legislati 911 . Even .. wh'i!~.· _the available to t)lose Who wish to biases and that they continue to event, a six member panel will racial equality, has introduced a initial reasons behind most social work. Reacting to this pressure, d·isplay these through bigoted address the topic: \'Career and new vocabulary. Words and legislation are centered around many individuals h.a.ve reactions to affirmative action. Marriage: Can you choose phrases . such as feminism, ideal; humanitarian goals, the unfortunately misinterpreted the While l can understand the both'?\) Head Li·brarian ~ . - ~ Post Still Open by SUE BAXTER After a near success, the search for a head Librarian continues. Last term, two candidates were brought to the campus for a final interview. They were strongly considered, but Reitl.lelr one met the variety of qualifi(;aiions which the College and the' Library Search Committee sought. The Committee will continue the search this terril, but with a few changes. Professor Schmee is the acting chairman of the Committee, replacing Professor Potts.· Also, tbe Committee has an opening for another student representatiye. additional candidate from last terrri's applicants is still being considered. Until all of the qualifications are completely inet, the Committee will continue its search for a new Librarian. In the meantime, former assistant Librarian Ruth Anne Evans will continue to fill the position of acting head Librarian. Provost Enteman is hopeful. that a new Librarian w.ill be hired soon. He feels howeveF, that the post probably will not be filled until close to the end of the academic year, if this year at all. Basically,. the Committee is looking. for \administrative and ' practical experience... '(and) It still is too early to predict whether or not the present search wiU be fruitful, last term's · experience however certainly sh()uld be beneficial to the .committee's w.ork in ~he future. Schaffer Library, still in need of a head librarian. familiarity with · lil>rary automation processes\. The candidate. also. , must possess an accredited degree and should show a high degree of scholarship, although the latter is not greatly emphasized. The Librarian will not be required to take on any teaching duties and basically will carry on the same functions as did the late Dr. Tolan. Tax Comm,ittee Appli·cations At present, Professor Schmee and the Committee ate starting the selection process over with a new set of candidates. One This week, applications for appointment to next year's Student Audit Committee will be available in the Student Activities office. The Audit Committee is responsible for allocating and auditing student activities funds. T:ti ~ newly appointed Committee will begin meeting with funded groups early in the spring tenn to review budget requests. Toward the end of the term the committee will notify each group of · their allocated budget for the 1977-1978 school year. Szudel'il body V. P. Michael Ganz, chairman of the body that selects student committee members. , \,_, .. , .......... _,. ___ ,.. __ ,._ ... ~·. Each member of the Audit Committee will work closely with about eight student activities, to insure each organization's financial stability. Committee members will be charged with remaining aware of all the groups' ·functions and making monthly audits of financial records. Committee membership is an excellent opportunity to become more involved with Union College. One may gain knowledge and insights into the workings of many different activities, learn money man~gement techniques and, above all; learn how to work with people. All interested persons are encouraged to pursue a position on the Audit Committee. Any questions can be answered by Stanley Geberer 370-6412 or Larry Fein 393-5230. CALL at*\tll& I.ITOPll tiUAY IT. HII'IY SPRING TERM· PRE-REGISTRATION NOTICE Prearegistration materials for spring term 1!J76-77 will be available at the Office of the Registrar, Room 2, Administration Building, beginning Monday, February 21st. Students are urged to promptly secure their copy of these materials. Students who do not plan to return to Union for the spring term, except for graduating seniors, must ilnmedilltely give notice of their plans to the Office of the Dean of Students. Potential March graduates should inform the Office of the Registrar of their· plans to fmisb their studies at the end of winter term. Students should confer with Faculty Advisers during the week of February 21•25. Some departments may announce special arrangements for advising. Please be alert for suda announcements. Course requests are due at the Office of the Re1istrar not later than Monday, February' 28th. A TEN DOLLAR (SIIUD) LATE FEE WILL BE .AS~ESSED. THEREAFTER.

a g a h ' r CONCORDIENSJS, Feb. 23, 1977 ·- . ... . . .. ··. - -· . ·-=-= Page5 iPL ·. Commentary : .. · .· · Affirmative Action: Negative Response by DIANA LEYDEN . . . - _ . . . ~ffirmative action, liberation, practical application of legislation economic ideals of affirmative possible reasons for the formation Why do words and phrases. ERA, and if.SSertiveness have often undermines the original action. While it is true that in the of these preconceptions, I cannot such as affirmative action, bon:tharded the American publ~c; intentions. Thus, the true purpose short run the influx of women resign myself to the contin1,1al feminism, and liberation evoke Unfort1,lnately, many of these. of affirmative action legislation is into the working world has projection of these attitudes by such bigoted re~ctions from wo-rd·s and phrases have seldom realized because agsravated · the problem of such educated people. Since, supposedly educated members of developed meaning.s via individual institutions often unemployment, it is not valid, to however, the movement toward a college community? Why do association ~ association with defeat its ·purpose when they conclude that the t~te of equality for wd'men with men has these members of an institution individuals and sensational attempt to implement it. That is, unemployment will decrease if gained enough momentum to Which seeks coeducational status, . events. The media has given. these when institutions consider the affirmative action is discarded. continue, these attitudes and, fear the applaudable ~fforts,.;..of words and phrases meanings price of economic and social What is perhaps not fully subsequently, the people who concerned men and women to which do not capture the actual reform, they begin to try to recognized is the long ron hold them, will continue to equalize academic and social concepts. Hence, feminism bas minimize the cost of realizing it. advantages 9f a full strength labor become further and further out of opportunities for all in the true cQme.to mean ''radical, aggres~>ive This consequently leads to force~ The. potential to reach step with reality. I can only hope .spirit of the Word coeducation? In .action toward males;•; assertive minimiZ~tion of ideals behind the. higher levels of preductivity is that the members of Union short, why has such a negative women are believed to be ''pushy reform. Ignorance of economic one important .econo:mic College recognize the need for response developed: to such .a feminists;\ and affirmative action factors on the part .of the· consideration behind affirmative c hang e and the m () r a 1 p<,>sitiv~ concept a~ affirmative is thought to be \reverse architects of affirmative action action's commitment to equal consequences of stagnation. action? Drawing from my recent discrimination against men.\· legislation underlies much Qf its opportunities for ~II who seek (NOTE: For those who wish to wotk experience With a national These ideas; in turn,.ateabso.rbed misdirection, whil¢ a lack of employment. Therefore, while the become enlightened women's interest group in by the media-manipulated public commitment on the part of the iniiial reaction· to the economic contemporaries, this weekend, Washington, D.C. (Women's and, more frighteningly, by the institutions' administrators and threat of increased unemployment February 25th, 26th and 27th, has E q u.i ty Action League •tfree-thinking, coliege educated members toward the ideals of might be considered valid, the been designated Women's Educational ~nd Legal Defense elites.\ The input 'by these swayed affirmative action res.ults in prolonged belief that affirmative Weekend. On Feb. 25th, the Fu11d), I Would attribute the elites into the media circuit mismanagement. action is economically .unsound, is Women's Caucus will sponsor .a formation and • projection (,f completes a cyclical pattern whic;:h Finally, the third factor which not. It is indeed frightening that cocktail party in Strauss Lounge biases to three factoJls: (1) generates ~n immediate neg 11 tive bas indirectly contributed to the this unfounded belief is fostered from 4:30 to 6:00 p.m. ·On ffi,isunderstood jargon; (2) response and (luther reinforces formation and projection of by many members of college Saturday, Feb. 26th in Strauss misdirected and: mismanaged assimilated archaic ideals. prejudices is the current economic communities. Lounge an Assertiveness legi&lation; and (3) increa~d Tlu{ second factor which aides pressure. This- pressure has In conclusion, I find it quite Workshop will operate from 2:00- economic pressures. the creation and application of culminated in an incredible unsettling that the members of 4:00 p.m. On Sunday, Feb. 27th, First, the movement for prejudiced reactions is decrease in the number of this college community continue a brunch will be held at Hale equality among men and women, misdirected and mismanaged employment op·portun:ities to harbor many deep rooted House (Milano Lounge). At this lilce the earlier movement for legislati~tt· Eyen . wh'i!~. _the available to those who wish to biases and that they continue to event, a six member panel will racial equality, has introduced a initial reasons behind most soCial work. Reacting to this pressure; display these through bigoted address the topic: \'Career and new vo¢abulary, Words and legislation are centered around many individuals have reactions to affirmative action. Marriage: Can you choose phrases . such as feminism, id~al; humanitarian goal$, the unfortunately misinterpreted the While .I can understand the both?\) H8ad Librarian • - - r Post Still Open by SUE BAXTER After a ~ear success, the search for a head Librarian continues. Last term, two candidates were brought to the campus for a final interview. They were strongly considered, but neitfie~r one met the variety of qualifications which the College and the' Library Search Committee sought. The Committee will continue the search this term, but with a few changes. Professor Schmee is the acting chairman of the Committee, replacing Professor Potts. Also, the Committee has an opening for another. student representative. additional candidate from last term's applicants is still being considered. Until all of the qualifications are completely met, the Committee will continue its search for a new Librarian. In the meantime, former assistant Librarian Ruth Anne Evans will continue to fill the position of acting head Librarian. Provost Enteman is hopeful. that a new Librarian w,iH be hired soon. He feels however, that the post probably will not be filled until close to the end of the academic year, if this year at all, Basically, the Committee is looking for. \administrative and ' practical experience... ' (and) lt still is too early to predict whether or not the present se~rch will be fruitful, last term's · experience however certainly should be beneficial to the Committee's w~rk in ~he future. Schaffer Library, still in need of a head librarian. familiarity with. :library automation processes\. The cand~date also . must possess an accredited degree and should show a high degree of scholarship, although the latter is not greatly emphasized. The Librarian will not be required to take on any teaching duties and basically will carry on the same functions as did the late Dr. Tolan. At present, Professor Schmee and the Committee are starting the selection proeess over with a new set of candidates. One Tax Committee Appli,cations This week, applications for appointment to next year's Student Audit Committee will be available in the Student Activitie~ office. The Audit Committee is responsible for allocating and auditing student activities funds. Th~ newly appointed Committee will begin meeting With funded groups early in the spring term to review budget requests. Toward the end of the term the committee will notify each group of · their allocated budget for the 1977-1978 school year. Each member of the Audit Committee will work closely with about eight student activities to insure each organization's financial stability. Committee members will be charged with remaining aware of all the groups' · functions and making monthly audits of financial records. Committee membership is an excellent opportunity to become more involved with Union College. One may gain knoWledge and insights into the workings of many different activities, learn money management techniques and, above all; learn how to work with people. All interested persons ate encouraged to pursue a position on the Audit Committee. Any questions can be answered by Stanley Geberer 370-6412 or Larry Fein 393-5230. Student body V. P. Michael Ganz, chairman of the body that selects student committee members. , CALL ll .. tlll i11TttPAI .... ' .. . . . . . .. ~ I·~~·~~ ........ ,K_•~• ..... ., ...... ,. ... ., SPRING TERM· PRE-REGISTRATION NOTICE Pre-registration materials for spring term 1976-77 will be available at the Office of the Registrar, Room 2, Administration Building, beginning Monday, February 21st. Students are urgtld to promptly secure their copy of· these materials. Students who do not plan to return to Union for the spri~g term, except for graduating seniors, must immediately give notice of their plans to the Office of the Dean of Students. Potential March graduates should inform the Office of the Registrar of their plans to fmish their studies at the end of winter term. Students should confer with Faculty Advisers during the week of February 21-25. Some departments may announce special arrangements for . advising. Please be alert for · such announcements. Course requests are due at the Office or the Registrar not later than Monday, February' 28th. A TEN DOLLAR . (SIO,OO) LATE FEE WILL BE .ASSESSED THEREAFTER.

''If, .I ... •• .... • .. • •• • ..... .. .. .. • ....... - - .,. ........ ~ '\. ;. • ~ .. \ ... ~ \ ' ... ~ \\ .. • ~ ~ .... .... - .... .. ~ -to ..... Page6 CONCORDJENSIS, Feb; 2{• 1977 \.\ b culture art6 -Reflections of a CHI,NADOLL Costumer Assists Mounties 1 one young woman growing· up Jewish ,in America ----...._._ A unique Qne-woll'ian perfQrmance by Broadway and Off-Broadway actress SUSAN MERSON ·(currently starring in \Vanities\ O.ff-Broadway) \ ... a flawless p~rformance.\ -New York Post \Delightful.\ -Newhouse Newspapers \Extraordinary-...a bravura performance.\ -Greater,New York Radio \Susan Merson has presence and pr.esents-she is definitely one of the actresses to watch.\ -United Pre•• 'China Doll\ is wrillen:b~ Ms. Merson in collab.oratlon wllh,Diana Bleiler, dlreclerJ,by Barbara Tarbuck with music composed by Steve Richards Donna Meyer went on a shopping spree to New York recently. She bought, among other things, a dozen pairs of tights, enough fabric for 20 outfits, and material for a do~n hats. And she returned a broken sword. Meyer. a professional free-lance costume de$igner With more than 20 professional shows under her belt, is no stranger to New York. It's her h9me. 8ut for the last six weeks, she has been living on the Union Coll~ge campus.. .Brought to the college under a special program which exposes students to theater professionals, she has been working with students in the des~gn and construction of costumes for the upcoming production of \Twelfth Night .. by the Mounteban~s. The play,. Which will be staged Feb, 25-27 and March 2~5 is under the direction of Barry Smith, assistant professor of the arts. Interestingly, Meyer designed the costumes for a production of \Twelfth -Night\ by New York's Equity Theater immediately before coming to Union. Reflections .of ·a China, Doll On Sunday, Feb. 27th, at 7:30 p.m. in the· Director's Lab Theatre in Carnegie Hall, the Jewish Student Organization- Hillel will present ••chinaDoll,\ a unique one-woman performance by Broadway- anq off-Broadway actress Susan· Merson. . In this one hour, single actress .. presentation, Susan .Merson explores the elements that make of a creative Jewish identity. Currently appearing in the off- Broadway hit, Vanities, Susan Merson was last seen on Bro~dway with Sada Thompson and Eli Wallach .• in Fnlnco Zeffirelli's. production of ~atturday, Sunday, Monday. Ms. Merson has also worked regionally ;tt the American Shake- speare Festival, The Long Wharf Theatre, The Hartford Stage . . Company and The. Goodman Theatre. She is a founding member of New York's Lion Theatre Company and has appeared With them as Viola in Twelfth Nigbt~. Ms •. Merson is 26 years old. Ad-mission to the performance· will be free for members of the· Jewish Student Org.-Hillel, and · 75 cents for other members of the campus community. up one young woman'·s contem- porary Jewish identity. From the chicken noodle nightflights of a , six year old child, to bizarre occurrences on the subways of Berlin, to the confrontation of the Jewish community on a question Vital to the gri>wth of the Jewish . wornati in ;hiday's w6rld, ,Ms.. . Medon relates· · h'er own experiences groWing up, distilling the elements that show us each our own ateps toward maturity and acceptance of the. challenges Stuttgart Cham,ber . The S.tuttgart Chatnber Orche~t~. of\' its fitst American tour sinCe 1974, will return to the capital District Tuesday,· .March· 1 with a concert of works by Pachelbel, J.S. Bach, Strauss, and Britten in Union College's Memorial Chapel. The concert,. Glee Club Performs ' . - . The Union College Men's and Women's Glee Clubs will present a mixed bag of classical music and traditional American folk songs Thursday, Feb. 24. The concert will be at 8 p.m. in Memorial Chapel. The highlight of the evening will be the Glee Clubs' combined performance of Mozart's \Missa Brevis in D Major.\ In addition, the Men's Glee Club, directed by Hugh A.· Wilson, professor of music at Union, will perform \When Johnny Comes Marching Home\ · arranged by Fenno Heath; \April is in My Mistress' Face\ and \Shoot False Love, I Care Not\ by Thomas Morley; ••The E-RI- THE E,\ an American folk tune; and Adriano Banchieri's \Intetmedio di Solfaneri.\ Under the direction of Robert A. Christensen, the Women's Glee Club will perform such traditional pieces as \Seychelles Fishing Song,\ \Deep River,\ and .. Johnny Has Gone for a Soldier.\ They will also sing John Wilbye's \Seek Sweet Content,\ Leroy Anderson's \Belle of the Ball,\ and \Can tate Domino,\ by Hans Leo Hassler. Tickets may be purchased at the door at $2 for adults and $1 for students. Admission will be free to Union. College faculty and students with I.D. cards. NIGHT BEAR Saturday nite at Edwards House~·· p~ut of the ~c4enectady Museum- Union College CQncert Series, will begin at 8~30 'p~m. · , The internationally-known orchestra, under the direction of Karl Muenchinger, played an all- Bach program ·to a standing room-only crowd at its last performance in the Capital .District three years ago. This year; the orchestra will perform Johann Pachelbel's \Canon Bach's \Brandenburg CoQ.certo No. 3, in G major\ and \Concerto for Two Violins and String Orchestra in D minor;\ Richard Strauss's. string 'Sextet from the opera \Capriccio and \Variations on a Theme of Frank Bridge,\ by Benjamin Britten. At the invitation of the orchestra, Hugh · A. Wilson, associate professor ·Of music at Union and chairtnan of the arts department, will . pJay harpsichord. The Stuttgart Orchestra was established in 1945 by Karl Muenchinger. who had been conductor of the Hannover S_l'mpbony Orchestra. lts first On Friday, March 4, the Union College Community will once. again have the opportunity for a fantastic evening at \THE N lGHTCLUB,\ sponsored by the Social Committee. The Nightqlub, brought back by student demand, will he held in the Alumni Gym. A comic, Rich Belzer, will perform and will be followed· by the music of ••fLO\ provided for dancing. Tickets are $3.00 and entitle the holder to three mixed drinks and a serving of cheese, fruit and bread. The evening begins at 9:00. Tickets wiil be sold at Student Activities. Be There!!!!!!!! However, she was not able to directly carry ov:er much from her work on the New York show. In accord with Smith!s conception of the play, sbe designed a \much mote somber\ production for the Mountebanks. ..It has a completely different touch and feel,\ she said. The first step in cpstume design, says Meyer, is perio4 researcb..,getting a feel for the kind of costumes which would be appropriate to the time of the play. This is followed by rough sketches and a \color plot,\ which is shown to the director \to Jet the director ,know what I'm thinking about color.\ Color .plays a critical role in costume design. \If you make a dress in red and you make it pale yenow or green, you get a completely d:ifferent statement.\ she says. · When the color plots have met the dir:ector's approval, Meyer then makes full-color .plates~ .. That's wb.at I work with in the shop.\ . The costumes Meyer luis designed for \Twelfth Night\ are $UCh eartb tones as rust, brown, and orange. Tha~ she said, is to reflect the somberness of the show and the opulenCe and richness of lllyrian, where the play is set. ••The people,\ she said, \\are living out empty lives.\ This conception of the comedy differs markedly from the Equity Library production which, said Meyer, emphasized the youthfulness, attractiveness IJlld playfulness· of the characters. For that production, she used pastels,· such !ls pale blue, lavender, and rose. \Both. aspects are in the script,\ said Meyer. \It all depends on how the director wishes to interpret what's there.\ In addition to 'making sure that the ·characters are dr,ssed in appropriate colors, one of the most important things .Meyer must be aware of \is .making the clothes and set work together.\ Thus she has been working closely with Charles Steckler, who designed the set f<>r \Twelfth Night.\ \Communication between director, set de$igner, and costume designer is critical,~' says · Meyer. \Sometimes the costumes and sets look as though they'.re · out of different centuries.;' Among the _theaters for which Meyer has designed costumes are London't Cockpit Theater (\Viet Rock\) New York's CSC Repertocy Co. e·A Country Scandat\ \Hedda Gabbler,'' \Tartuffe Amsterdam's Helen leClerque Dancers ('•space Fog\) Cohoes Music HaU (\Centennial Gala';). She is a graduate of California State University and has studied . ·at l;6ndon ~s Mc:>Untview Theatre School, New York's Fashion Institute cf Technology, and the Studio and . Forum of Stage Design. Meyer has worked for most of the m~jor costume shops in New York and worked for one y\ar as per8onal assiltartt to tbeatre make-up artist Richard Corson. She has superv,ised the complete setting up of two costume shops. An important difference from the professional shows she is accustomed to working with is the experience of the labor. That, of course, is to be expected. \'A big part of my job here is teaching students bow to do it. That makes it completely different from a professional production. I can't allow myself to get frustrated,\. Meyer said. Orchestra Returns concert, in Stuttgart, was a · be · tpo peifect7\ , \yrltihg. ill the tremendous success, meeting in Albariy . Times Union, Richard · the· post ... war years a hunger for Vincent referred to the group's good music after years of \famous coherence and group deprivation. Since then impeccability,\ calling the music Muenchinger has conducted more .. all familiar and all magnificent.\ than 1000 concerts with the The orchestr:a ·ha1.1 pertonned owhestra. throughout .Europe, the U.S., On its 1973-.74 tour, the. Soutb:America, theSoviet.Union, orcbestlll received .high praise the Onent ancl South Africa. It from Ameri~n critics. The New .has ~rded e.&~nsively on the. York Times. declared that Lcndon label~ ~·Maestro · Muenchinger Tickets to dte March:l concert summoned forth . perfonnances ,may be pun:hased at SS to the that were models of precision and general public and $3 to students. elegance. This is a superb Urtic;)lt . College. faculty . and orchestra.\ The San Francisco studentB with 10 cards· will be · Chronicle asked: \Can music ever admitted. at no charge. · The Stuttgart Chamber Orchestro,, under the direction of Karl Mue-nchinger, will give its first perfarm~nce in the Capital District .since 1914 on Tuesday; March 1 at Union College. The concert, part of· ihe Schenectady Museum-Union College Concert Series, will be at 8:30 p.m. in Memorial Chapel. at R On Cam~ rootn c~llec castir radio in. thl a war• Arne: sta.ti< RUC D1 optr Skid two sam• RUC con~ Pre~ whi• maj' calll Ski• · Ski4 me! nee . \l whi lo~ sta1 ser Rl ·1 Ra• Uni TUI Th1 fiV( the mu adc blu Th ha1 ha1 IIUl Hi pel co fes So thl sh th sl S'

- 1at in :he (er :he r.\ eng bo fth :en nd lys ll.es •'re · ich are 'iet sc try ~r,\ len •\) ' ' lial of md it's rew of md :of lew . ·as ttre on. lete IpS. ·om is the , of big ling Lkes 1 a an't ~.\. he Lrd p's up sic t.\ led s., m, It the. ert the Lls. nd be CONCORDIENStS; Feb. 23. 1977 .. - . R UC:First College Station by KEN STONE cla!ls FM station. In fact;. General 011 the second floor of Manager Lloyd Saberski claims Carnegie Hall are .a number of that with the advent .of a new rooms of technical equipment transmitter this week, RUC will collectively known as the broad- be the best., if not the biggest, casting. station .of Union College radio station in. Schenectady. radio, WRUC. While most people However, RUC's staffe..S did in the College community are· Well not end their striving for a first- aware of the fact that R.U C is class station with an FM America's first colleg~ radio (requency and good equipment A station, ·most are not. aware of large part of a station's popularity RUC'$ more recent history. lies in the record coilection it During the 1960's,. Rttc rr:taintain~. ROCha~ developed a· operated in conjunction with good cor~spondence witll record Skidmore College. There were distributors in order to obtain two ·broadcasting sites for the choice selections. lri fact, the same radio station. ln addition, station boas~s one of the largest R UC a11sembled a network of recot~ collections in the are11. and college rruJio stations to cover the a soon to be ~omputeri~e.d filing . Presidential ptiinar~es of 1968 system. · - ~. which rivaled the coverage of the Perhaps the most exciting and major networks. This 'era of .RUC recent development is . RUe's. came tQ an end howev:er,· when atter.npt to, ,broadcast with Skidro.(ue went co-ed.· The ~creased powe~, An application tmnsmitting site and arranges to s.ubmit a new FCC application. The .power with which RUC presently broadcasts allows it to be heard over a range which equals the line of sight from the top of Carnegie Hall. Other recent ad,vancements in their broadcasting includ~ 24 hours-a- day transrnissic;m and summer oJM:rations. Last summer, RUC btoadcasted for at least six. hours- a-day. .. RUC presently enjoys a good sized disc-jockey pool, the largeness of which actually helped inspire the new 24 hour· format. However, the st;1tion always encourages new jocks (that's .tadio talk) to sign up. The FCC examination that is required for disc jockies on RUC is nv\ difficult due to its limited broad- · culture Mike Roberts taking a· station break. . Skiddies apparently (elt that with . ~o ;the FCC requesting this change 111en of their l;)Wn, they didn't was . made. · However, the need Onion College.·· . ·!ipplication conflicted. with that of · · This res\lltecl in a peripd in .a . -V ernl.on~ :stat~on, . a..nd the which ROC maintained itself as a conflict resulted in a settlement in low level AM, but progressive which ROC withd-rew ·its station. However, an influx of application. The · progress · has serious . minded students helped ·· temporarily slowed d.own while RUC to transform int<> a first~ the station loQ.ks for a . casting .range: However, station policy requires jo~tes to someday pass the more. difficult exam in a_ 11 ticip_· ~t~~ri. ofa ... more powerful . TM· . .transmtsston: Yo~ need not be an .· at Sch'dy Museum · Coffee.h(iuse The · fantastic · Red Clay Ramblers are coming to the Union College Coffeehouse on Tuesday, March 1, at 8:30 p:m. The Red Clay Ramblers are a five-man ba:nd \solidly based in the old d~nce tunes and hillbilly music of the '20's and '30's.\ In addition, the Ramblerso perform · bl,uesHagtinte, .and swing music. They play piano, guitar;·· auto.- harp, string bass, trumpet, harmonica, fiddle, banjo, and mandolin. Based around Chapel Hil~ North Carolina, they have performed in hundreds of clubs,.. coffeehouses, colleges, and festivals all over the Northeast. South, and MidWest. In addition. . they ~ppeared. in an off-Broadway show,· ... Dianlond ·Studs.\ · elt.:ctrical engineering maJor or have an unlimited knowledge of music to be a jock. If you are interested in working for RUC then just stop by the studio. . Admission cost will be $1.50 at the' door· of Old Chapel. Roy Zuckerberg tunes in.to $pring~ieen. 'Yoit' Plays to Full Chapel . ' The · Unitm College Jazz rhythm section, . whith was Enliemble· played to a ~highl1 'iilfo111llllly jamming to the twelve . receptive capacity crowd in' the measure jazz pattern of ~Basically chapel last Friday night. · An·· Blues,\ a -Buddy Rich number, excellent, near-professional pet- was joined by a swing pattern formance · which displayed tight offered by the sax section, and the ·ensemble wor'k and creative solo Jdlling of the house lights. The accomplishments was turned fri. effect' .surprised the audience but , by the 1.9 member stage ban~. started the concert off to a good . The concert which started · note. · sbO~~y af~er 9 P·In: .left people . A quick . segue . into . \Theme standmg m the .aiSles _as the from the . Mod Squad\ ·followed ' . ' College Jazz Ensemble performs · Chapel. ' . . . ·:\~4 '1.11 ·..:···\'•'' ... , ~~>ll ~' • .... by Zappa's \Peaches ·in Replica\ set the. mood for the concert. A fine . mixture of jazz, pop; and jazz-rock characterized the ·remainder of' the first h!llf. Tbe concert's second half started and ended with dynamite. Five blaring trumpets opened with .. Chameleon\ and clo~ the concert with an encore of Stefak;s own arrangement of .. McCarther's Park.\ The crowd responded to the encore and the entire concert with a standil}g ovation and •• A\ ratings for Stefak's work for the band. The solo work was tume~ in by the entire gathering of mqsicians. Bob Pennisi, ·Jeff Amato, Jeff Rusik, Ross Joel, Charlie Vasper, and Fred Abbot took the sax riffs in the songs; Tom Nallie, Terry Savage, and Paul Scholl were featured in the Trombone section. John Samulien, Fred BerkoWitz, Cliff Cohen, Chris Gilbert., ~nd Paul Stefak - tbe director player - encompassed a trumpet section wiih ample solo opportunities. . Joe Cappucio on drums, Bob Lillenstein on piano, Kenny lliman on guitar and Steve Grayman on bass all showed fine rhythm ensemble and solo work. ' A go()d time was enjoyed by all; some members of the crowd took advantage of the aisle space and informal atmosphere of the concert to sneak some dancing. . '• .r .. a As part of its Ideal Spciety the emotional effects of stress for Campaign for the city of patients as well as the doctors and S!:henectady, the Al,llerican nurses who treat these people. Foundation for the Science of In addition to the speakers a · Creative Intelligence is spOrtsoriJ.!g cole)r video tape featuring Dr . a special presentation\ oir : th~ Hans Selye, world renowned problem of \stress\ as it relates to authority on the ''Stress mental and physical health. The Syndrollle~·. will be shown. Transcendental Meditation The Transcendental Meditation technique will be discussed as a technique, as Dr. Cramer will possible solution to this problem. present, is a scientifically tested The program will take place at procedure which produces a the Schenectady Museum on profound and holistic rest to the Thursd!,ly, February 24 at 8 pm. mind and body. Easlly learned Guest speakers will include: and practiced, its potential for the Dr. Miguel Cabral: a specialist field of health is great. ·of· internal ·'medicine \and ·· . . . ., . , . c#diology. Dr. Cabral will speak ..... ---------- . on the' probiem ·of·- ;\sttess\, The Northeast~r.n • New. ¥ or.k drawing from his past studies and Youth o'rCh.estra · will glve· its professional experience. winter conceit Tuesday, March 8 Dr. Douglas Cramer: NucleQ.r at 8 p.m. in Union <;ollege's Phycisist, on leave of absence Memorial Chapel. The orchestra, from G.E.'s Knolls Atomic i under the direction of Emory Laboratory to become a teacher Waters; will perform .Beethoven's of the transcendental Meditation ~Emperor Concerto,\ Schubert's technique. Dr. Cramer will review .. Unfinished Symphony,\ and the scientific research on the TM ~Three Pieces . for Orchestra,\ ~bnique as it, rela~e~ to solving which Waters wrote specially for the problem of \stress\ ·and the the Youth . Orch.estra. Pianist reaction ofpsychosomatic,disease. :Juana Zayas will be guest solois• Mrs. Jeane.tte Phelan: for the Beethoven concerto. Registered Nurse and mother of Tickets may ·be purcha~ at four, also a trained teacher of the the door at $1 to the general TM technique. Mrs. Phelan will [Public. discuss how the TM program aids. it's been tpo long since last we enjoyed. our presence together is all but destroyed. the miles are too many to channel our love. warmth from your pen is never enough - your smile imprints itself and fogs my mind; it speaks to guide me to its sound I am blind. I gaze toward the north and wonder where you are. I call to your moon but your moon is too far these long months without slide thro\lgh like a knife, for as long as I've known you you've been my life. . - Steve Crimi Anyone who'd like to participate in a Cabaret program . of poetry reading next tenn, contact me now at box 1738. -

.. - • • ' • ~ .. --. ' ' • t ,. •.• ' - • Page8 CONCORDIENSJS, Feb, 23, 1977 Worthwhile? With the publication ·of next Wednesday's issue of Coneordy, our tenure/sentence as Editors-in-Chief comes to an end. For us, the last seven months have been an experience. Perhaps adventure. is a better word. Last May we rose from the ranks of obscurity to be<;:ome editors because no one else in this microcosm of a universe wanted to do it. Not being members of the previous staff, we di'dn't believe that the position could be as difficult and time-consuming as the previous editors had warned us. We thought that they were merely being overly-cynical and pessimistic. This September, when we actually started to produce an issue of Concordy every week, we realized that the former editors were right. Putting out a paper is terribly demanding; both pbysicaUy and mentally. Tuesdays and Wedne~qays ilre torture; we are subjected to abusive c,;iticistn (non-constructive, of course) and few compliments; academics have become optional and dependent upon the time demands of the paper. All in aU, it is hard to say whether or not we would do it again. However, since this is our last editorial of the year, we would like to look back on what we've~ done and what has happened at Union in the seven months. Major issues have not been lacking from the campus thi!!l year. The fall started off with many .students wonderi.ttg What happened to Delta Upsilon. Consequently, .. an article on the subject .captured the .prominent position in our first issue. Week after week, excitins or controversial issues sul'laced with amazing regularity, including: various Intruders, heated and too-often emotional debates on athletics, two ex-Union students - Jimmy Carter and ·Baruch Blumberg - became world famous, and a living legend (Aaron Copland) came to Union. Concordy released a preliminary draft of the long-awaited Athleti.e Task Force Report, was censured~ and later ~leased a summary of the completed report. That last headline was one of the more absurdly humorous moments of the year. If one criticism has been consistently leveled at us it is that, under our editorship. Conc:ordiensis has been too serious, not \funny\ enough. Maybe we have been. Maybe we sometimes have taken ourselves too seriously. However, we believe that college should be serious. It is, for most students, a stepping stone to later iife, both in terms of learning and in maturing. If we have not been humorous enough it is because we have tried to spur action towards the goal of making Union a better place to live, learn, mature, and expand one's interests. To be serious for a little while longer, there are a tew things of which we are proud. When we began, our five major goals were: ·1) to face the important issues squarely, 2) tQ be totally objective in our news articles, 3) to attain and maintain a high standard of professionalism, 4) to produce a newspaper every week that was awaited and read by all sectors of the.college community and 5) by doing all of the above, to increase student, faculty, and administrative input to the paper. Although we may have failed at times, we believe that we moved far towards the realization of these objectives. Several faculty members have written articles on such topics as politics, comp-eds, and new aqademic programs, and President Bonner's weekly column has becom~ a wid.ely read forum for the espousal of his views. Also, in fifteen issues we have received over '150 letters to the editors; some critical, some laudatory, but all of them informative. Letters have come from such removed sources as: alumni, students from other schools, residents of Schenectady, students on terms- abroad, faculty members, administrators, and even one from a prisoner in a N.Y. State correc~ional instituti~n. These I7tters, if nothing else, have served as the remforcement whtch has motivated us week after week. · Obviously, we believe that Coneordy bas been an excellent newspaper over the past seven months. We have work~d very ha!d, but, as in any organization, the leaders c~nnot ach1e~e anyt~mg without dedicated help. No one who works. Wlth us week m and week out gets any reward otlier than the personal pride that accompanies accomplishment and we would like to take this time to express our sincerest thanks to everyone who has helped thr<>ughout the year. A great number of student~. faculty, and administrators have done a lot of work, and it .would be dangerous to single oat any of them for special recognition. Nonetheless, that is exactly what we are going to do because there are a few people who have consistently put out 100%, often at great expense to their personal endeavors. Therefore, we would now like to express our utmost personal thanks to the following~ AndY Koblenz, who has done as much work as anyone (and more than most) and has never had his name appear in either the staff box or a by-line; Joe Cappuccio and Nancy Murphy, for making the paper look good, even under the Y(orst circumstances; Matt Brief, for two terms of working like hell wbeil he had many other responsibilities; Cindy Sheppard, Rich Guardian, Joe Millett, and Marshall Wisoff, for being willing to sink themselves into the organization at its inception, when it was most severely needed; Harns Halper.l, for juggling our books and taking our abuse for two . terms; Lester Weiss, for being our entire art staff; Eileen Thomas, Cammy Lapetina, Kathy Greco, Sharon Cannizzaro, and Ann Markowitz, for assorted duties, especially in the clutch; Dan Forbush, who helped a lot more than' most people realized; and finally, • Lorraine Marra, who docs lots of everything, especially not yell at us. We've probably left out someone; if we did, we're sorry. This brings us to our greatest single source of satisfaction as editors that so many people have worked for Conl;ordy during our tenure .. Over 250 members of the college community have done some type of work for us during the past twenty weeks. J,n these times when everyone bitches about laziness and apathy, this figme is more than impressive -- it's pretty damn high when you stop to think about it. In fact, more than anything else, this statistic compensates for all the sweat we've spent working on the paper. Similarly, regardless of all of the frustration, we have been satisfied with the product and its reception by the campus community. Though · we have encountered opposition on various issues and have been attacked as often (if not more often) as we have done the attacldng, · more than once students, professors and administrators have told us that we have produced the best newspaper that Union has ever had .. That httle bit of positive reinforcement went a long way. Finally, although the editorship does entail a great deal of grief, harassment , and, basically, frustration, it definitely has been one of the most rewarding learning .experiences (in terms of organization,. mterpersonal relations. and human motivation, as well as journalism) that we have participated in at Union. . ln retrospect. our earlier statement in this editorial was incorrect: v.c prohably would do it again. ~ · · · Senior Looks BaCk by MATT BRIEF spent four years running intQ his long-range plans. for . the numerous proverbial brick walls. college and trying to alter It's been nearly four years at One leaves Uhion College fundamentally the nature of Union Coll~ge. The transition wondering about race relations. Unic,m College. This secFetive from a naive- freshman to' a Obsqure<l by other jssqes i!,.Qd a plami:i:f!:g has arou.sed the crusty. cynical senior is ahnpst lack of' violent confrontatio'n.- we suspicions of many and made complete. Allow someone wl!o mustn't· forget that the. black- them wc;>nder about a br~acl:l .. Qf has been through the wars; ~to white contact is minimal and institutional integrity in a host of indulge in a bit ()f reverie al'!d latent racism exists in .cenaitl <lifferent .areas, ranging fr9m guidance· for , t'utu.re Union me?tbers .. of all races ~n c.amp_us. athletics to educational plannipg. travele-rs. . . . Umon ·Still must estabhsh ttseU as The tist could go on forever. You ~re about to enter a most . a fully integrated c<>mmunity. We have a ci{lendar that .many exciting period of Union College's . Cons~dering the ot'ten dynamic feel ,~t~~e~ participation .in ,on- existence. The . institution will . Interaction on a one~to..one level camp.us JJ.cthitie.s. We Jive in a soon adopt or dispose of it , ·wit~ fac(dty. i.h the ~~~a~.sfoom,. cumm'Uiiif..y•. thaf dues .nothing· to number of newprogtams that can thet'r . renstance t~wards encourage stl!4ents who g~vt of restore Union's tradition as a educational change at Umon has· themselves . in ·extra~urn~ular center of educational innovation. been · Pi~ppointin~. They h1,1ve activities. After si,x yeats o( ~o­ Mllst importantJy, we 'have lac~ed initiat~ve . and · defea~:d education, the college still reached a point · where Union senous educatiOnal :Proposals .. m maintains a strong institutiQnal must define its educational the Senate. All of us sh~ul<! be bias agaipst Women. And so on. philosophy. · · interested in how the. facul~y will _What can an.yone do ,as a Since freshman year. several react to the ~urry of. new tlnion student•! Think., prim!ltily. students including myself have proposal~ that wtll com~ before Think of what Union is and tried any number of measures to the Senate. . . .where you thinlc it . should be boost the institution's commit- Over and over we hear of. going. Be objective, but maintain ment to the Arts P~ogram. These ~~mplaints about. ynio~ ~s a healthy, cy~ic:al attitude. And measures would have reaffirmed mtellectual atmosphere~ Un1on make sun: y<Ju channel that our status as a Liberal Arts bas a great nurnber of exciting, cynicism into participation. sehool and. attracted a new. intellectually curious students. yet People who like to carp, or ~ake vibrant type of student to Unio\ tum-outs at lectutes .are often. excuses ( .. ifs_ a clique\ \let it die, College. Finally, with the report ~eage.r; sy.m.P.o.su _and see if I care\) are wort~less. of the Arts consultants the search mtellectual orgtes get medtOcre lndiyiduals can ma,ke a change at for an Art Histo~ian, and J'C?SPOD!IeS. T~e college ~acc;:s a task Union College with a little hard Professor Wilson's impending of c~nnehng the tntellect~al work and commit!llent. This is proposals for an expanded Arts energtes of the students ou~stde ·the joy of a small college. Change Program, the institution is the classroom.- If students fad t~ isn't easy; it never is . .Rut cltange moving to make a tangible expand, Umon must rec~tt isn't inconceivable, either, Each of commitment to the Arts. stuclents . who .offer .something us has a responsi~ility to the total There are other signs that bode more th<Jn relatavely htgb grades conimUnity, botb inside and well for Union. Serious thought is . and ~A! ~or~s. . . . . outside. the classroom. being. given to a new General T~ls mstttutton •s headed by a Complacency is a sham. No Education program to replace the prestdent who has a keen nose for doubt you. will experience oft-ma-ligned Comp.-Ed. th~ market.and ex.cellent ~apport multiple frustntions, but in pro.gram. The ••Steinmetz wtth ~umna .. At the same ttme, he retrospect yoll will not have felt Curriculum\ promises to offer, has <hsappomted_ many .mem~rs that you wasted four years in Union's \best and brightest\ · of the commumty by_ obscurmg solitude. exciting challenges in education.. The Senate will soon vote on the Internal Education Foundation, ~ special fund for educational projects that Pro~ost Entema~- . has labelled one of Union's most exciting developments in recent years. When 1 came to_ Union the perennial cry was th11t student apathy was prevalent on campus. Many still bemoan, with partial accuracy., apathy on campus. HoweVer, if one looks at the ~gures,. it's obv.ious that.apathy at . Ul}ion is on the dec:linc •. Committee applications have jumped from just over 100 to 500 last spring. More tban UJOO students VQted in last y~r's student elections. Numerous .ne.w student activities have sprung up in the last four years (Cabaret, WRUC-FM, Positive Action Group, to name but a few). Certainly, Union embarks Qn a '\:.- _. period of hope. HQwever,_ · .rn;.tny r of us leave with a feeling o1 frustration and bitterttess as well as hope. Some students bave ., Pl • p tc c b h 1\ n S1 r~ ti a il ~ a ti tl s e r .. t t , I 1 :t t I c J c

Page b CONCORDIENSIS, Feb. 23, 1977 Worthwhile? With the publication of next Wednesday's 1ssue of Concordy, our tenure/sentence as Editors-in-Chief comes to an end. For us, the last seven months have been an experience. Perhaps adventure is a better word. Last May we rose !rom the ranks of obscurity to become editors because no one else in this microcosm of a universe wanted to do it. Not being members of the previous staff, we didn't believe that the position could be as difficult and time-consuming as tlile previous editors had warned us. We thought that they were merely being overly-cynical and pessimistic. This September, when we actually started to produce an issue of Concordy every week, we realized that the former editors were right. Putting out a paper is terribly demanding; both physically and mentally. Tuesdays and Wednesdays are torture; we are subjected to abusive criticism (non-constructive, of course) and few compliments; academics have become optional and dependent upon the time demands of the paper. All in aH, it is hard to say whether or not we would do it again. However, since this is our last editorial of the year, we would like to look back on what we've done and what has happened at Union in the seven months. Major issues have not been lacking from the campus this year. The fall started off with many students wondering what happened to Delta Upsilon. Consequently, an article on the subject captured the prominent position in our first issue. Week after week, exciting or controversial issues surfaced with amazing regularity, including: various Intruders, heated and too-often emotional debates on athletics, two ex-Union students - Jimmy Carter and Baruch Blumberg - became world famous, and a living legend (Aaron Copland) came to Union. Concordy released a preliminary draft of the long-awaited Athleti.,; Task Force Report, was censured, and later released a summary of the completed report. That last headline was one of the more absurdly humorous moments of the year. If one criticism has been consistently leveled at us it is that, under our editorship, Concordiensis has been too serious, not \funny\ enough. Maybe we have been. Maybe we sometimes have taken ourselves too seriously. However, we believe that college should be serious. It is, for most students, a stepping stone to later life, both in terms of learning and in maturing. If we have not been humorous enough it is because we have tried to spur action towards the goal of making Union a better place to live, learn, mature, and expand <me's interests. To be serious for a little while longer, there are a few things of which we are proud. When we began, our five major goals were: I) to face the important issues squarely, 2) to be totally objective in our news articles, 3) to attain and maintain a high standard of professionalism, 4) to produce a newspaper every week that was awaited and read by all sectors of the college community and 5) by doing all of the above, to increase student, faculty, and administrative input to the paper. Although we may have failed at times, we believe that we moved far towards the realization of these objectives. Several faculty members have written articles on such topics as politics, comp-eds, and new academic programs, and President Bonner's weekly column has become a widely read forum for the espousal of his views. Also, in fifteen issues we have received over 150 letters to the editors; some critical, some laudatory, but all of them informative. Letters have come from such removed sources as: alumni, students from other schools, t:esidents of Schenectady, students on terms- abroad, faculty members, administrators, and even one from a prisoner in a N.Y. State correctional institution. These letters, if nothing else, have served as the reinforcement which has motivated us week after week. Obviously, we believe that Concord:y has been an excellent newspaper over the past seven months. We have work~d very ha.rd, but, as in any organization, the leaders cannot ach1e~e anythmg without dedicated help. No one who works with us week m and week out gets any reward other than the personal pride that accompanies accomplishment and we would like to take this time to express our sincerest thanks to everyone who has helped throughout the year. A great number of students, faculty, and administrators have done a lot of work, and it would be dangerous to single out any of the~ for special recognition. Nonetheless, that is exactly what we are gomg to do because there are a few people who have consistently put out 100%, often at great expense to their personal endeavors. Therefore, we would now like to express our utmost personal thanks to the following: Andy l(oblenz, who has done as much work as anyone (and more than most) and has never had his name appear in either the staff box or a by-line; Joe Cappuccio and Nancy Murphy, for making the paper look good, even under the worst circumstances; Matt Brief, for two terms of working like hell when he had many other responsibilities; Cindy Sheppard, Rich Guardian, Joe Millett, and Marshall Wisoff, for being willing to sink themselves into the organization at its inception, when it was most severely needed; Hams Halpert, lor JUggling our books and taking our abuse for two terms, Le~ter Wet~~. ltlr being our entire art staff; Eileen Thomas, Cammy Lapctma, Kathy Greco, Sharon Canniuaro, and Ann Markowttl., tor a~~ortcd dutic~. especially in the clutch; Dan Forbush, whu helped a lot more than mo~t people n:alitcd; and finally, Lorrame Marra, v. hu doc~ lot~ ot c\ crything, especially not yell at us. \Ne'Ye probably lett out ~omcunc; d we <.ild. we're sorry. 1 h1~ hnngs us to our greatest single source of satisfaction as editors that so many people have worked tor ('oncordy during our tenure. <hL'f 250 mcmher~ of the college community have done some type of work lor m during the past twenty weeks. In these times when everyone h1tches ahout la1iness and apathy. this figure is more than 1mprcs\1\t: 11\ pretty damn high when you stop to think about it. In fact, more than anythmg el-;e, this statistic compensates lor all the \Wcat we've -;pent working on the paper. S1milarly. regardless of all of the frustration. we have heen satisfied v.1th the product and its reception hy the campus community. I hough v.e ha\c encountered opposition on various issues and have been attad.cd as often (if not more often) as we have done the attacking. more than once students. professors and administrators have told us that we ha\.e produced the best newspaper that !Jnion has ever had. 1 hat little h1t of pos1t1ve remforcement went a long way. r malty. although the editorship does entail a great deal of grief, hara~-.ment. and. basically. frustration. it definitely has been one ot the mo\t rewardmg learmng expenences (in terms of organ11at1on, mterrer,nnal rf'latJnn< ... and human motivation. as well as journalism) that v.e ha\C part1c1pated m at Umon. In rctro\pect our earher statement m th1s ed1tonal was mcorrect: v.e prohahl\ v.ould do It agam Senior Looks Back by MA IT BRlEF It's been nearly four yea-rs at Union College. The tr-ansition from a naive freshman to a crusty, cynical senior is almost complete. A II ow someoae who has been through the wa.rs .to indulge in a bit of reverie and guidance for future Union travelers. You are about to enter a most exciting .period of Union Col'lege's existence. The institution will soon adopt or dispose of a number of new programs that can restore Union's tradition as a center of educational innovati<:>n. Most importantly, we have reached a point where Union must define its educational philosophy. Since freshman year, several students including myself have tried any number of measures to boost the institution's commit- ment to the Arts Program. These measures would have reatiirmed our status as a Liberal Arts school and attracted a new, vibrant type of student to Union College. Finally, with the report of the Arts consultants, tbe search for an Art Historian, and Professor Wilson's impending proposals for an expanded Arts Program, the institution is moving to make a tangible commitment to the Arts. There are other signs that bode well for Union. Serious thought is being given to a new General Education program to replace the oft-maligned Comp.-Ed. program. The \Steinmetz Curriculum\ promises to offer. Union's .. best and brightest\ exciting challenges in education. The Senate will soon vote on the Internal Education Foundation, a special fund for educational projects that Provost Enteman has labeJled one of Union's most exciting developments in recent years. When I came to Union the perennial cry was that student apathy was prevalent on campus. Many still bemoan, with partial accuracy, apathy on campus. However, if one looks at the figures, it's obvious that apathy at Union is on the decline. Committee applications have jumped from just over 100 to 500 last spring. More than 1000 students voted in last year's student elections. Numerous new student activities have sprung up in the last four years (Cabaret, WRUC-FM. Positive Action Group, to name but a few). Certainly, Union embarks on a period of hope. However. many of us leave with a feeling of frustration and bitterness as well as hope. Some students have spent four yea,rs running into his long-range plans for the numerous proverbial brick walls. college and trying to alter One leaves Union College fundamentally the nature of wondering about race relations. Union College. This secretive Obscured by other issues and a planning has aroused the Jack of violent confrontation, we suspicions of many and made mustn't forget that the black- them wonder abeut a breach of white contact is minimal and institutional integrity in a host of latent racism exists m certain different areas, ranging from members of aU races on campus. athletics to educational planning. l:Jnion still must establish itself as The Jist could go on forever. a fully integrated community. We have a calendar that many Considering the often dynamic teel stifles participation in on- interaction on a one-to-one level campus activities. We live in a with faculty in the classroam, community that does nothing to their resistance tewards encourage students who give of educational change at Union has themselves in extra-curricular been disappointing. They have activities. After six years of co- lacked initiative and defeated education. the college still serious educational proposals in maintains a strong institutional the Senate. All of us should be bias against wemen. And so on. interested in how the faculty will What can an:yone do as a react to the flurry of new Union student'! Think, primarily. proposals that will come before Think of what Union is and the Senate. where you think it should be Over and ever we hear of going. Be ol>jective, but maintain complaints about Union's a healthy. cynical attitude. And \intellectual atmosphere.\ Union make sure you channel that has a great number of exciting, cynicism into participation. intellectually curious students, yet People who like to carp, or make tum-outs at lectures are often excuses .(\it's a clique\ ••Jet it die, meager; symposia and see if I care\) are worthless. \intellectual orgies\ get mediocre Individuals can make a change at responses. The college faces a task Union College with a little hard of channeling the intellectual work and commitment. This is energies of the students o~~side ·the joy of a small college. Change the classroom: If students fall t? isn't easy; it never is. But change expand, Umon must recr.Uit isn't inconceivable, either. Each of students who _offer .somethmg us has a responsibility to the total more than relatively htgh grades community, both inside and and SAT scores. o u t s i d e t h e c I a s s r o o m . T~is institution is headed by a Complace11cy is a sham. No prestdent who has a keen nose for doubt you will experience th~ market. and excellent ~apport multiple frustrations, but in With ~lumm .. At the same t!me, he retrospect you will not have felt has d1sappomted many members that you wasted four years in of the community by obscuring solitude. - --·~ i I I. Pl - ..

~N Wife. >s; 1e l. light fiar R!lise the topic of Di¥ision hockey in . any <J:isctission on campps these d~ys and ·chances are you will be greeted With the followin.g · pre-tec;:.orded .announcement: By going Division 1 in hockey and 1~aving N'ESCA.C, Union College would be reno~ru;:ing its comJAitment to . ex~;:ellence in education tor the sake of ·big-titne sports. Sq.~b: a move would embark Union · on a trail <that would exploit athletes, lower the academic stanc;lards; :il.nd damage the school's image. Without the restrictions of NES:CAC, Union would soon becom~ engaged in all kinds ot' undesirable practices such. as post•season pl~y. larger sc'hed ules, inesp onsible recruiting, the admission ·of athletes ordinarily unacceptable to Union, and the granting of athletic scholarships. And all this for an almost negligible increase in public expo:nu;:e! lt is not .necessary to listen to the message repeat; the emotions are at once raised to a feverish level. What true-blooded Union scholar would · sit idly by and permit a vi.-tlla:l Pandqra's Box of assorted evils to be qnleashed upon his worthy instiiution? Having been enlightened, one goes rushing madly . off to recite · the newly found gospel to the· nearest av~ilable ear. Thus, ~ wild stampede of Chicken-Littles has descendec;l upon the Union College community. The ·essence- of the problem is that in their furious haste to alert their fellows to the unspeakable dangers of leaving the NESCAC fold, they tiave simply neglected to check their facts. No one, it seems, had ever bothered to go directly to the relevant sources for information bearing on each of the issues. This the authors. did, with some very surprising results. It was found that all of the much- heralded arguements ' against going Division One were indeed based on groundless assumptions. The following information w~s compiled through first-hand interviews with · the i Union coaches, the head of Union's athletic program, the director and assistant director · of the Admissions staff, the Provost, the associate Dean of faculty, and the vice-president for college resources. FACT: Leaving NESCAC will cause the addition of essentially no extra games during the term (including finals' week). Sy NCAA rules~ our present basketball season can only .l>e extended from 23 to 24 games. CONCO/(.DJENsis. Feb. jJ. 1977 I :I Fact & Myth by RICHARD BARNETT and JOEY fElN~ERG All additional hockey game!i and t'potball &atll.es added to the pre~nt schedule would ~ played during vacation .time. SOURCE1 Union . CoJ,Iege · Athletic .Direc~i::lr, Craig Cadson, and the four main athletic coaches. FACT: Uniqn College athletic coaches do not sit in on · Adtni11sions ·committee meetiQgs and do not have ·a final say on the admission of ·an· .. atltlete~. All. students. applyi~g for admission in the Class ·of l9'8l, as well as for future classes, will be consider~ under tile same admissions guidelines. SOURCE: Jay Shupe,. Dean of Admission; Donald Underwood, Associate Dean of Admiss~ons. FACT: The difference in the budgetary costs between Division One and Division Two hockey is. minimal. As far as traveling costs are concerned,. the Division One schools are foJi the most part clo~r. and certainly no further away.tban the teams current~y on the -schedule. SOURCE: Chairman of Planning and Priorities Committee, Prof. Jos\eph. Maciariello, l'~ed Harkness. FACT: The Athletic Directors of Hamilton and Middlebury' Colleges have told us they will conti~ue to play Union in the sports .they have in the · past, regardless of our relationship with . NESCAC. Tufts has suggested the same. Presently, only 8 out of 23 b!lsketball games .are played against N ESCAC schools; the majority of tll.ese have indicated that they will still .play Union whether we are in or out of NESCAC, In· football, five of eight of our games are against NESCAC schools; three. of these have alr¢ady indicated tbey will c;ontinue to play us. The remaining two will most likely follow suit. At the same time, schools such as Rochester (in a city where Union has ·a great percentage of alumni) are not on QUr football schedule despite their ~nests to be so. SOURCE; Craig Carlson, Union Athletic Director. FACT: Union has always maintained a policy of granting financial aid based on need o~ly. ScholarshiP!! awarded to hockey players have been no greater than the average scholarship awarded to other students demonstrating the same need. FACT; Union has a1ready received unprecedented ex:poslire due to .our hockey program in the papers of such cities as Detroit, Kansas qty, Chicago, Syracuse, St. Louis, and Hartford. Going Div. One would allow us to bring our name into areas which we presently cannot reach and areas which contain substantial numbers o1' alumni. Union would be playing Hatva~d. BU, and DC in Boston, Yale in New· Haven, UN H and Dartmouth in central New England, Princeton in central New Jersey, Penn in Philadelphia, __ Brown in Rhode lslan(l, Cornell and Colgat~ in central· New York, and Clarkson· an.d· St. Lawrence in the North ,. ' ' . l•. ' - ' . Country. Most of :these .areas are laregely underrepresented in Union's eprbllmerit at the present tim~. SOURCE: R.B~ Rasmussen, Vice President of College Resources. FACT: H()Ck.ey trips. by alumni clubs have caused a major breakthrough in their efforts to actively r«tUit new members and plan. new programs. ln addition to building general alumni interest, th¢ir programs are invaluable in identifying volunteer leadet$hip and ah,tmni who, as individuals, can be enlisted for wo'rk · in Annual Fund. Admissions, and Placement activities. Increased alumni support is essential to the survival of the college since· it is the · alumni gifts and grants that k~p the· tuition from rising to an intolerable level. Over 90 % of the funds received are unspecified as to their use. SOURCE: R.B. Rasmussen, V .P. of College Resources. Clearly the sky isn't falling, and neither will. it fall in the future if Union simply adopts its present principles into the bylaws of the . school•s constitution. The authors are submitting a proposal to gtiarantee the guidelines that the school has attempted to follow in the past to maintain education in the past as the top priority. The authors believe that Union can remain a small liberal arts college while developing more comprehensive programs which would make it tnore diversified and responsive to the stud~nts' needs. One hundred years ago, Union underwent a long peri~d of stagnation and decline simply because it failed to innovate and adapt itself' to new trends in education. We teel that the failure to go Div. One and expand the college's educational and ex:tra- curricular programs in order to · cq.nform to some narrow conception of a liberal arts college would be a serious mistake. We 1,1rge aU members of the· Union Community to consider the fac:.:ts as they ex.ist. Page9 Frorn the President's Desk FROM THE PRE.SIDEN.T'S DESK WI:IAT IS A COMPREHENSIVE COLLEGE? In my address to the faculty at the opening of the fall term, l said that Unioil College was, in my view, a \comprehensive college in a university setting:• Later, in my report to the Tru$tees in January I repeated that view and discussed fQttber what I saw as some of the promise offered Union by its uildevel~ped· pote!ltial. Since then campus discussion around the term has grown. Some have wanted to represent my statement as a \new model\ for Union. Some have wanted to construe my remarks as indicative of a decrease in College concern for the undergraduate program. Those who have done so have missed my meaning and my intention. I bave used the term \comprehensive college.. following the usage employed by the Carnegie Policy Studies and other publications, such as the Bowen-Minter surveys of private higher education and. the reports of the State Education Department of the State of New York. These bodies employ categories to recognize differences among the characteristics and program:o of colleges. Most sucb_. breakdowns characterize American colleges and universities as follows: Liberal Arts l - small, under 1.000 eltrolled Liberal Arts II- 2,000 students or under Comprehensive college - having one or more programs in depth beyond the traditional arts and sciences, and/ or a limited number of graduate programs Comprehensive university ~ having doctoral and professional degree .programs in a number of areas. . Similar distinctions are made by the American Association of University Professors in gathering statistical data concerning faculty compensation. The AAUP differentiates between colleges offering only the baccalaureate and those, like Union, which confer graduate degrees but do not have a sizable number of doctorates awarded each year. No new model has been put forward in calling attention to the comprehensive nature of this college's curriculum. The presence for more than 130 years of an engineering program has made Union historically different from the small liberal arts colleges which do not have such potential enrichment for the academic life on the campus. lAM has also brought educational opportunities to undergraduates at this college not possible at s.mall liberal arts undergraduate colleges. To recognize examples like these is not to ta:l~e anything away from the under- graduate program. It is rather in my view to be alert to opportunities to enrich the college experience for our students. My .. model\ then is not a new one, but one which reflects, accurately I llelieve, the curriculum of the College. Union Coll!lge stands for a quality liberal arts education, but something else besides. My \lilodel\ :tnay be normative in the sense that I believe the college \ought\ to take ~antage of the possibilities created by the characteristics that make us' compre- hensive; but my. \model\ is descriptive in the sense that it depicts:,r~t; \is.\ Careful reading of my address to the faculty and my J:~Jll(lt;t..to the Trustees will note that my emphasis has been strengthening utide$raduate programs through ·exploiting the resources offered by ~;·ciiaduate programs and our ties with the other institutions of Union Univt~~;· My strong conviction is that we cannot achieve :what we see~~~demic 9~ty. and . strength of our student .body without ma~mJ' t~ totaJ msntuttonal effort. , . . ;, ., As} ~aid i~ my report to the Trustees, \If we encourage oi.'({' ~ersity assoetatlons, if we develop our adult programs in the commu \ ' · · create a year-round operation; if we rele~se ~he ~r~tive impulses i ·' ~ if .we expect all our students to be oontnbu.t1ng citiZens to a campu~t,. ; umty, if we give rein to the scores of ideas .for change at Union College ... \ We shall ha~e·a much stronger college, with the liberal arts and scie~s at t~ core, as we.face the future. . · - . ·· · CUllan cota.,.. • , concor01ensts Editors-in-chief .................................................. bowie lax mike rotondi N . • . ews editor ..................................................... andy lliitcheli matt brief Features editors ..................................... miriam david. andrea certilman Culture e~itors ............................................... fern fiomenhaft joe millett Sports C~ltors ...................................... danny wojnilower, debbie poietto Copy edt tor ............................................................................ todd miller Business;managers ...................... barbara stern,marla lux, harris halpert Classifieds editor ................................... patti moran .martha rubenstein Subscriptions editor ........................................................... harris hal pert Layout editors ............................................. joe cappucio, nancy m'urphy Photography editors ............................................. steve grill, jon fiescher Photo Staff .............................................. barry dibernardo, jeff forman · cary feuerman, ed platz Art editor ............................................................................... b:ster weiss Poetry. editor ............................................................... delanne stageman Staff this issue .......................... brad kessler, kathy greco karen lee ann markowitz, · ale.~ ~uhilliuit sharon camuzzaro matt lubart cindy vanina linda straube, cynthia aranon, seth roslyn, gary glaubet, ira goodman Calendar .............................................................................. rich berniker CONCORD.IENSIS is published every Wednesday by the student bo~y of Umon ~ollege, Old Gym Hall, Schenectady, New York; to whtch Postal forms 3579 ~te directed. Public&tions Office: Th~ Jewish World Publications, 4i6 Smith St., Schenectady, N.y. 12305 (370·5483)• Entered ill tlie Schenectady Post Office as Second Oass Matter. Subs(ription Rate 35 cents .per copy, SH). a year delivered anywhere in the United States.

~N Wife ight ;ar CONCORDIENSJS, Feb. 23, 1977 Division I • II Fact & Myth Raise the topic of Division l hockey in any discussion on campus these days and chances are you will be greeted with the following pre-recorded announcement: By going Division l in hockey and leaving NESCAC, Union College would be renouncing its commitment to excellence in education for the sake of big-time sports. Such a move would embark Union on a trail that would exploit athletes, lower the academic standards; and damage the school's image. Without the restrictions of NESCAC, Union would soon become engaged in all kinds of undesirable practices such as post-season play, larger schedules, irresponsible recru1tmg, the admission of athletes ordinarily unacceptable to Union, and the granting of athletic scholarships. And all this for an almost negligible increase in public exposure! It is not necessary to listen to the message repeat; the emotions are at once raised to a feverish level. What true-blooded Union scholar would sit idly by and permit a virtual Pandora's Box of assorted evils to be unleashed upon his worthy institution? Having been enlightened, one goes rushing madly off to recite the newly found gospel to the nearest available ear. Thus, a wild stampede of Chicken-Littles has descended upon the Union College community. The essence of the problem is that in their furious haste to alert their fellows to the unspeakable dangers of leaving the NESCAC fold, they have simply neglected to check their facts. No one, it seems, had ever bothered to go directly to the relevant sources for information bearing on each of the issues. This the authors did, with some very surprising results. It was found that all of the much- heralded arguements - against going Division One were indeed based on groundless assumptions. The following information was compiled through first-hand interviews with the Union coaches, the head of Union's athletic program, the director and assistant director of the Admissions staff, the Provost, the associate Dean of Faculty, and the vice-president for college resources. FACT: Leaving NESCAC will cause the addition of essentially no extra games during the term (including finals' week). By NCAA rules, our present basketball season can only be extended from 23 to 24 games. by RICHARD BARNETT and JOEY FEINBERG All additional hockey games and football games added to the present schedule would be played during vacation time. SOURCE: Union College Athletic Director, Craig Carlson, and the four main athletic coaches. FACT: Union College athletic coaches do not sit in on · Admissions Committee meetings and do not have a t:inal say on the admission of an athlete. All students applying for admission in the Class of 1981, as well as for future classes, will be considered under the same admissions guidelines. SOURCE: Jay Shupe, Dean of Admission, Donald Underwood, Associate Dean of Admissions. FACT: The difference in the budgetary costs between Division One and Division Two hockey is minimal. As far as traveling costs are concerned, the Division One schools are for the most part closer, and certainly no further away than the teams currently on the schedule. SOURCE: Chairman of Planning and Priorities Committee, Prof. Joseph Maciariello, Ned Harkness. FACT: The Athletic Directors of Hamilton and Middlebury# Colleges have told us they will continue to play Union in the sports they have in the past, regardless of our relationship with NESCAC. Tufts has suggested the same. Presently, only 8 out of 23 basketball games are played against N ESCAC schools; the majority of these have indicated that they will still play Union whether we are in or out of N ESC A C. In football, five of eight of our games are against NESCAC schools; three of these have already indicated they will continue to play us. The remaining two will most likely follow suit. At the same time, schools such as Rochester (in a city where Union has ·a great percentage of alumni) are not on our football schedule despite their requests to be so. SOURCE: Craig Carlson. Union Athletic Director. FACT: Union has always maintained a policy of granting linancial aid based on need only. Scholarships awarded to hockey players have been no greater than the average scholarship awarded to other students demonstrating the same need. FACT: Union has already received unprecedented exposure due to our hockey program in the papers of such cities as Detroit, Kansas City, Chicago, Syr.acuse, St. Louis, and Hartt:md. Going Div. One would allow us to bring our name into a~eas which we presently cannot reach and areas which contain substantial numbers of alumni. Union would be playing Harvard, BU, and BC in Boston, Yale in New Haven, UN H and Dartmouth in central New England, Princeton in central New Jersey, Penn in Philadelphia, Brown in Rhode Island, Cornell and Colgate in central New York, and Clarkson· and St. Lawrence in the North Country. Most of these areas are laregely underrepresented in Union~s enrollment at the present time. SOURCE: R.B. Rasmussen, Vice President of College Resources. FACT: Hockey trips by alumni clubs have caused a major breakthrough in their ef.forts to actively recruit new members and plan new programs. In addition to building general alumni interest, their programs are invaluable in identifying volunteer leadership and alumni who, as individuals, can be enlisted for work in Annual Fund, Admissions, and Placement activities. Increased alumni support is essential to the survival of the college since it is the alumni gifts and gfants that keep the· tuition from rising to an intolerable level. Over 90 % of the funds received are unspecified as to their use. SOURCE: R.B. Rasmussen, V.P. of College Resources. Clearly the sky isn't falling, and neither will it fall in the future if Union simply adopts its present principles into the bylaws of the school's constitution. The authors are submitting a proposal to guarantee the guidelines that the school has attempted to follow in the past to maintain education in the past as the top priority. The authors believe that Union can remain a small liberal arts college while developing more comprehensive programs which would make it more diversified and responsive to the students' needs. One hundred years ago, Union underwent a long period of stagnation and decline simply because it tailed to innovate and adapt itself lo new trends in education. We feel that the failure to go Div. One and ex.pand the college's educational and extra- curricular programs in order to conform to some narrow conception of a liberal arts college would be a serious mistake. We urge all members of the Union Community to consider tb.e facts as they exist. Page9 From the President's Desk FROM THE PRESIDENT'S DESK \VHAT IS A COMPREHENSIVE COLLEGE? In my address to the faculty at the opening of the fall term, I said that Union College was, in my view, a \comprehensive college in a university setting.\ Later, in my report to the Trustees in January I repeated that view and discussed further what I saw as some of the promise offered Union by its undeveloped potential. Since then campus discussion around the term has grown. Some have wanted to represent my statement as a \new model\ for Union. Some have wanted to construe my remarks as indicative of a decrease in College concern for the undergraduate program. Those who have done so have missed my meaning and my intention. I have used the term \comprehensive college\ following the usage employed by the carnegie Policy Studies and other publications, such as the Bowen-Minter surveys of private higher education and the reports of the State Education Department of the State of New York. These bodies employ categories to recognize differences among the characteristics and programs of colleges. Most such breakdowns characterize American colleges and universities as follows: Liberal Arts l - small, under 1,000 enroU.ed Liberal Arts ll- 2,000 students or under Comprehensive college - having one or more programs in depth beyond the traditional arts and sciences, and/ or a limited number of graduate programs Comprehensive university - having doctoral and professional degree programs in a number of areas. Similar distinctions are made by the American Association of University Professors in gatb.ering statistical data concerning faculty compensation. The AAUP differentiates between colleges offering only the baccalaureate and those, like Union, which confer graduate degrees but do not have a sizable number of doctorates awarded each year. No new model b.as been put forward in calling attention to the comprehensive nature of this college's curriculum. The presence for more than 130 years of an engineering program has made Union historically different from the small liberal arts colleges which do not have such potential enrichment for the academic life on the campus. lAM has also brought educational opportunities to undergraduates at this college not possible at small liberal arts undergraduate colleges. To recognize ex.amples like these is not to take anything away from the under- graduate program. It is rather in my view to be alert to opportunities to enrich the college experience for our students. My \model\ then is not a new one, but one which reflects, accurately I believe, the curriculum of the College. Union College stands for a quality liberal arts education, but something else besides. My \model\ -may be normative in the sense that I believe the college .. ought\ to take advantage of the possibilities created by the characteristics that make us · compre- hensive; but my \model\ is descriptive in the sense that it depicts what \is.\ Careful reading of my address to the faculty and my rep()~ to the Trustees will note that my emphasis has been strengthening undergraduate programs through exploiting the resources offered by OJ!t ... graduate programs and our ties with the other institutions of Union Univet,S~:· My strong conviction is that we cannot achieve what we seek/.il:r~demic quality and strength of our student body without ma~illll. a. total institutional effort. ' As I said in my report to the Trustees, \If we encourage our unl~ersity associations, if we develop our adult programs in the communj.t~~ create a year-round operation, if we release the creative impulses in'~J:ANl'; if we eKpect aU our stadents to be contributing citizens to a campu$ '~~unity if we give rein to the scores of ideas for change at Union College ... \\le sb.all have a much stronger college, with tb.e liberal arts and sciences at the core as we face the future. · · ' £ll1ion ('Otlcgc • , concorotensts Editors-irr-chief ................................................. how1e lax, m1ke rotondi News editor ..................................................... andy mitcheli matt brief Features editors ..................................... muiam da•1d. andrea cert1lman Culture editors .......................................... fern tlt>menhaft joe millett Sports cduors .................................... dann} woJnilower. d<!bbie poktto Copy editor............................................ .. ....... .... todd miller Bu>me\ manager~. harhara -tern, marla lu.~. harn' halpt•rr Class1f1eds ed1tor .................................. paltl moran .martha ruben,tem Subscriptionh ed1tor ............................................... hams halpert Layout editor, ...................................... Jne cappucw. nanc) m'urphy Photography editor'····· . . '(C\C gnll. j!ln ne,cher Photo Staff..... barr) d1bcrnard•.>, )elf lorman Aned1tor. .... . P<>ctr} edittn ... . Staft th1s ls>ue ............ . Calendar ........ . cary feuerman, ed platz . .. le;ter w ei,s delanne stageman . .. hrad ke>,ler. kathy greco karell lee ann markowitz, a k.'>l.! tu h1 nru• t sharon canruzzaro matt lubart cindy vanma linda Straube. C}nthJa arannn. seth ro'l) n, gar} glauber. 1ra goodman nch bermkcr (\()N(\ORD.IE:~~IS is published e\er) \\ ednesda) b) the student body of \;moo ( ollege, Old (;ym Hall, Schenectad). 'lie\ '\or!..; to wtnch Prn;tlll ~orm~ .\57'.1 are directed. l'ublicntiun' Offirr: Tht' .Jewish Worl~ Publications, 416 Smith St., Schenectad), \\·\. 12.10<; (370·5483). Entered in the Schenectad) Post Office a' second ( Ia ... , Matter. Subs<:ription Rate 35 cents per cop). SIO. 11 )ear delhert>d anywhere in the l'nited States.

Pagf!_ 10 CONCORDIENSIS. Feb. 23, 1977 -~ - -- :. - - • • - t ... _ . - _t...;. .. ~ '---·-- « '- • . ' . ' ' ' ' ' ' .. . . . \ . . \ ' ' ' (IMPORT ANT) This exam schedule is for regular, day undergraduate courses, Biology 147 Section 51, Statistics 202 Section 51, Adm. & Mgt. 211 Section 51, and \Section 52~., graduate . , courses, A separate schedule for \Evening Division\ courses will be announced, and students in other \Section 51\ courses should be alert for the announcement of the exam time for those courses.) Conflicts in examinations should be reported to Mrs. Lapidus in the Office of the Registrar not later than Friday, March 4, 1977. Examinations :will be held in the assigned rooms. Listed below is the code of the buildings to be used. AB - Arts Building BH - Bailey Hall BU - Butterfield Hall HU - Humanities Building NW - Science-Engineering Center (North Wing) . PY - Psychology Laboratory SS - Social Sciences Building SH -Steinmetz Hall MONDAY, MARCH 14 -- 9:00·11:00· A.M. Comp. Ed~,.: 4Ct\ (Contempor~uy · France and Its Heritage)- HU 110- Roberts Comp. Ed. 55 (Metropolitan Land Use) - SH 106- Mason· Comp Ed. 137 (Western Imperialism in the Nineteenth and Twentieth Centuries) - HU 019- Hansen Comp. Ed 145 (Social Insti,tutions) - HU 115- Weiner Greek 11 (Principles of Greek)- HU 016 - Testroet Economics 11 (Elementary Economics) - Sec. l - HU 114- S. Schmidt; Sec. 3 - SS 012- Kent Economics 131 (Microeconomic Analysis) - HU 112 - Kenney Economics 140 (Labor Economics) - SS 115 - Prosper English 126 (American Literature from the Civil War to World War I) .. HU 116 ~ Wineapple History 13 (Democracy in Crisis: Civil War and Reconstruction) - SS 117 - Lichterman History 139 (Western Imperialism in the Nineteenth and Twentieth Centuries) - HU 019- Hansen French 132 (A General View of French Literature II) - HU 117 - LeClerc Political Science 11 (Contemporary American Politics) - Sec. 2 - SS 112 - Tidmarch Political Science 12 (Contemporary International Politics) - Sec. 1 - SS 113 - Gati Sociology 12 (Social Institutions) - HU 115- Weiner Sociology 50 (Complex Organizations) - HU 014- Schneller Sociology 147 (Sociology of Art and Literature)- NW 116- Carlile Administration & Management 112 Biolo&y 36 (Invertebrate Zoology) - NW (Production Management and Control)- 116 _B. Boyer SH 219- Holmes · Psycbelogy 38 (Child Psychology)- PY Accounting 11 (Elementary Accounting 113 .. Britain . II) .. BH 166 - Kauth Psychology 63 (Praeticum itt Human Biology 14 (Biology of Animals - Core I) Relations II) - PY 213 - Girdner · · - SS 016- Rappaport, Roth Psychology 66 (Seminar in _ Social Biology 44 (Cytology) - BH 203 ~ G. Psycboiogy) .. py 102:- Downing Smith l£,S. :U (Resistive Circuits) ~·See. 1 · ... SH Chemistry 10 (Fundamental Chemistry 106 - Goodheart; Sec. 2 - JlU 204 - I) - Sec. 1 - BU 204 - Weick; Sec. 2 ... BU GalantQwicz; S~c. 3 - BH 20 I ~ Hoffman 204-. Hull; Sec. 3- BU 204- Sutter E.S. 28 (Introduction to Semiconductor Mathematics 14 (Calculus Ill) .. Sec. 2 - Devices and. Circuits) - Sec. 1 .. BH 207 - BH 104 - Gillette . · Craig; Sec. 2 - BU 204 - Galantowicz · Mathematics 18 (Introduction to Logic and Set Theory) - BH 108 - Zwicker Mathematics l46 (Advanced Calculus I) - BH 102 - Fairchild · Physics tl· (Introdl;lction to Physics !)(For Physical Science and Engineering Majors)- BH 201- Schick TUESDAY, ·MARCH~ 15 .9:00..;Jl:OO A.M~ , Physics 13 {Introduction to Physics Il)(Biology, \LD. Science and. Liberal F.E. ()6 (Intelligent Life in the Universe)- · BU 106.- Lichtenstein Arts Majors) - BH 207 :- Pea~ F .Ei 67' (Introduction to .. Contemporary Psychology 10 ·'(A First Course in Psychology)_ Sec. 3 _ py 113 _ Calabria; Mathematics)- BH 106 ~Zwicker···· se~. 4 _ py 2 13 _Bashore Comp. Ed .. 23 (The Second World War Era) - SS 016 - Hansen Psychology 31 (Abnormal Psychology)- Comp. Ed. 156 (Genetics And Human PY 102 - Nydegger E.S. 10 (Mechanics and Strength of Affairs) .. ~H 102- Butzel . . Materials)- Sec. 2- BU 106- Eisenstadt . Economics 10 (Elementary Econonucs)- · · d H Sec. 1 .. SS 115 ... Prosper· Tr!~~fer:~ se~:~e~~~~~~ 1 ~ub~~Y · eat,,,,' }E~eonlniltcs ~11 (El~~eritarY ·Eeonemics} - E.S. 30 (Mechanics of Deformable Sec. l - S·~ 112 .. Kenney . . Solids)_ BU 109 _ Hibbeler Economtcs 141 (Monetary :Econmmcs) - · . . . I E · . ·· I) _ SS 010- Phaup C.E. 49 (Envrronmenta . ng1neenng E . . 142 (M· · . . · Th SH t'oo _ Snow eon~nues . . acroeconom1c . eory Computer Science 22 (Numerical and ~olicy) - HU 115 .. B .. Reynolds . , Methods for Computers)- SH 101 - Tse H~~ory 14 (Emergence of·. Mod~rn · Amenca, 1885'-1.929).- F:lU.ll6 ~Jon~s History 81 ·(Tropical Africa: An Introduction) - SS 117 - Bristol · French 11 (Basic French II)- HU 112,- MONDAY, MARCH -- 2:00-4:00 P.M. 14 LeClerc . . Russian. 11 (Basic Russian II) - Ht.T 110 - Comp. Ed. 48 (The Emergence of th.e Artist) - HU 114 - Gado Comp, Ed. 101 (Urban America) - SS 113- Fisher Economics 156 (The Economics of Planning) - BH 205 - Thimni' English 152 (Literature · of the English, Renaissance)- HU 110- Stevenson History 73 (East Asian Civilization - China and Japan) - SS 117 -Thurston History 116 (Urbap America) - SS 113 - Fisher History 117 (The American Economy Since the New Deal)- SS 112- Finkelstein · Gerinan 131 (Goethe's Faust) ... H:U 014 - Warde Hebrew 11 (Basic Hebrew II) - HU 116 - Heckelman Sociology 41 (Sociology of Leisure and Sports) M SS 115- Steadman · Sociology 60 (Methods ·of Social Research)- SS 012- Weiner, Schneller Statistics 202 (Statistical Methods) - See. 51 - BH 104 • Schmee; Sec. Sl - BH 104- Schmee · · Administration & Managernept 151 (Fundamentals of Behavioral Science I) ... See. 51 ... BH 102 - Griesinger J ermikoff . - - · Political · Sciettce . t·Sfi · (International Organizations and World Politics)- SS 113 -Johnson Statistics 10 (Introduction to Statistics) - Sec. 1 ... SH 106- Holmes; Sec. l - HU 114 ;.. S. Schmidt · Accounti~g 10 (Elementary , Accounting I) - SS 014 - Kauth Biology 15 (Genetics and Evolution - Core 'IV)- BU 204- J. Boyer Biology 149 (Bioph~sieal Aspects of Cell Physiology) - SS 012 - Lamoert, Leder- Schmidt Chemistry 142 (Che.mical Instrumentation) - BH 108 - Werner Geology 10 (Physical Geology)- BH 201 -Major Mathematics 14 (Calculus III) 8 Sec. 1 - BH 203 - Seiken Physics 140 (Introductory Quantum Mechanics) .. SH 100 - Lewis Psychology 10 (A First Course in Psychology) -Sec. 2- PY 113- Nydegger Psychology 30 (Theory of Personality) - PY 102 -Graves Psychology -49 (Clinical Psychology ll)- PY 213 ... Dowling E.S. 10 (Mechanics · and . Strength •• Mat E E 101 c BH E 205 c Co11 Tl c Pho G Wa B ss B BH .c BU .1\1 Ma1 p Psy, ·· .... P Psy E Ru~ ( ss 1 Val ( Col 207 ( BH 1l Sec 1l Sec ·l Ql2 1 Tr~ 112 I Ht I 16~ l an~ EX] ] Pn c Pr~ ] lnt Jol ] Po

- .. Materials) - Sec. 1 - NW 116 - Milido E~S. 20 (Mech~nics) : BU 109 - Hibbeler E.S. 33 (FlUid Systems .Analysis) .. SH 101 --:Shanebrook · C.E, 41 (Legal Aspects of Engineering). - BH .I 04 - Harlow · · E.E. 143 (Electromagnetic Theory) - BH 205-Chang C.S. 18 (l~troduction t<:l Digital Comp11ters) ... Sec. 1 .. BH 207'- Gajjar . . . . TUESDAY, MARCH 15 .... 2.:00-4:00 P \M. Comp. Ed. 52 (Scientific and Technical Photography) - SH 101 - Jones Gennan 11 (Basic German II) ... HU 115- Warde Biology ~3 {Biology of Plants - Core II) - SS 016 - Tobiessen · Biol.ogy 54 (Chordate Development) - BH 201 .. Rappaport Chemistry 154 (Physical Chemistry III) - BU 106 .. Hayes · .Mathematics 180 (Foundations of Mathematics) .. BH 203- Taylor . Psychology 10 (A First Course in Psychology) - Sec. 1 - PY 102 - Huntley .· ...... P.sy.e.h:ol.Q.gy ,, ,·. ,461 , ;(f.b,y,siQJo;gical Psychology) - PY 113 - Bashore · E.E. 36 (System Theory II} .. BH 207 - Russ C.S. 12 (FORTRAN Progra~ming) - SS l-15- Tse , WEJ)NESt>.J\y~; -· M.ARCH 16 -- 9:00;.11:00 1\..M. · F .. E. 74 (Biological Science and Social Values)- BU 106- Butterstein, IC Williams · Colllp. Ed. ft7 (Perspectives on ComputerLanguagesanq Software) - BH 207 .. G. Williams I Comp. Ed. 154 (World Agriculture) - BH 203 - George~ Tobiessen Economics 10 (Elementary Economics)- Sec. l .. SS 115- Wiese Economics 11 (Elementary Economics) .. Sec. 4 - SS 112 - B. Reynolds · Economics 139 (Public Finance) - SS 012- Ross· · English 11 (The English Literary Tradition: Augustan and Romantic) - HU 112 - Heinegg English 160 (The Early Romantics) - HU 019- Marten History 48 (History .of Modern Britain: 1688 to the Present)- SS 113- Finkelstein History 121 (American Constitutional and Legal History: The Federal Experience) - SS 117 - N. Allen French 133 ,(The French Language in Practical Use I)- HU 115- Roberts' · German 133 (The German Language iD: Practical Use I)- HU·014- Warde Political Science 12 (Contemporary International 'Politics) - Sec. 2 - SS 014 - Johnson Political Science 147 (Law and Public Policy) ... HU 114- Board l f t .. • l ~ !l''. ~ -\ ( ·•• t l. \'-. '. ;} • CONCORD1ENSIS~ Peb. 23~ 1977 ·Page 11 THURSDAY MARCH 11 . ' .. . - 2:00-4:00 P.M. .Biology li (Topics in Contemporary Biology)(for non-majors) -BH 201- Lambert Biology 134 (Population Biology) - NW 222 ,.; J. Boyer Latin 137 (Latin Epic) - HU 110 - Mathematics lO (Mathematical Methods Testroet for the Social Sciences I) -· BH 108 - G. English 139 (Contemporary British and Reynolds American Poetry)- HU 117 ,.; Davis Mathematics 28 (Probability) .. BH 104 - English 144 (Autobiography) - HU 114 - Ming Gado Physics 13 (Introduction to ·Physics Chinese 11 (Basic Chinese II)- HU 116- II)(For Physics majors; others with Blader permission of instructor)- BH 106- Swartz Philosophy 20 (Classical Logic) - HU Physics 133 (Electricity and Magnetism· 019 .. Marchi H) .. SH 100 - W. Schwarz Biology 170 (General and Comparative Psychology 10 (A First Course in Endocrin0logy)- SS 016- Roth, Butterstein Psychology) -Sec. 5 - PY 113 - Spring C.S .. 146 (Data Structures) - BU 109 ... G. Psychology 20 (Statistical .Methods in Williams P.sychology)- PY 213 .. Page . Psychology 24 (Social Psychology) - PY 102 -- Downing C.E. 30 (Structures)- BU 109- Hibbeler C •. E. 43 (Foundations and Concrete Construction) - BH 102 - Harlow C.S. 18 (Introduction to Digital Computers)- Sec. 2- SH 106- Hoffman WEDNESDAY, MARCH 16 - 2:00-4:00 P.M. .· ... ·,r::_, ·.;. • Comp. Ed. 32 (Myth 1n Literature) - HU 115- Testroet Comp. Ed. 81 (Society, Biology and Ethics: Conflict or Concord) - HU 019 - Baker Comp. Ed. 83 (Competing Philos~phies in Political .Economy) - SS 012 - Phaup Latin 11 (Principles of Latin)- HU 116- Hendricks English 143 (Comedy) - HU 112 ... Heinegg History 167 (The. Role of Business in U.S.-Latin American Relations) .. SS 113 ~ Bristol Philosophy 12 (Philosophical Problems) - HU 019 .. Ba.ker Chemistry . 12 (Fundamental Chemistry II) :- See.. I - BU 204 .... P. Brownlee; Sec. 2 - BU 204 ... Sheffer; Sec. 3 - BU 204 - T. Brpwnlee; Sec. 4 - BU 204 - Scaife WEDNESDAY EVENING, MARCH 16 - 6:30-8:30 P.M. Biology 147 (Immunology) .. Sec. 51 - BH 207 - Laffin THURSDAY, MARCH 17 - 9:00-11:00 A.M. Mathematics lO (Calculus I) - Sec. 1 - BH 102 - Muckenfuss; Sec. 2 - BH 20 l - Stone Mathematics 12 (Calculus II) - Sec. 1 - BH 104 - Gillette; Sec. 2 - BH 201 - Stone; Sec. 3 - BH 106 - Ming; Sec. 4 - BH 207 - Loullis; Sec. 5 - SS 112 - Strait; Sec. 6 - FRIDAY, MARCH 18 -- 9:00-11:00 A.M. English 123 (The Modern American Novel) - HU 114 - Marten Philosophy 64 (Philosophy of Education)- HU 112- Enteman Chemistry 32 (Organic Chemistry II) - Sec. 1 - BU 204 - Sowa; Sec. 2 - BU 204 - Martin Physics 17 .; (Principles of Modem Physics II) ... SH 106 - Titus FRIDAY,, MARCH 18 - 2:00-4:00 P.M. Comp. ,J!d.: 30·.(A Critique of Advanced Industrial Society) - SS 112 \\Sharlet · : ~ History 195 {Seminar iii American History: Law and Society) - SS 117 - N. Allen · German 10 (Basic German I) - Sec. 1 - HU 115 - Kellenter; .sec. 2 - HU 115 - K.ellenter Spanish 11 (Basic Spanish II) -See. 1 - HU 114 - Valdes; Sec. 2 - HU 114 - Valdes Political Science 159 (Seminar: International Politics)- SS 113 -Kleiman Sociology 13 (Introduction to Cultural Anthropology)- SS 115- Gmelch Administration & Management 211 (Managerial Accounting) .... Sec. Sl - BH 102- Kauth HU 115 - Bick; Sec. 7 - BH 205 - Fairchild; Sec. 8 .. SS 115 - Huffman; Sec. 9 - BH · 108 - G. Reynolds Mathematics 30 (Ordinary Differential Equations) - Sec. 1 - SS 112 .. Strait; Sec. 2- HU 115 .. Bick; Sec. 3 - BH 203- Seiken Mathematics 32 (Abstract Algebra I) - Sec. 1 - SS 115 - Huffman; Sec. 2 - BH 207- Loullis Physics 11 (Introduction to Physics !)(Biology, \l.D. Science and Liberal Arts Majors)- Sec. 1 - BU 204- Ohanian; Sec. 2- BU 204- Ohanian Physics 119 (Relativity, Gravitation and Cosmology)- BU 106 .. Peak \~' ,, .

Pt~gel2 Lo.l - pU of aolil framed ~~a- in black liard Uelhd cue. Lost somewhere between Bailey Hall and Camesic - Reward if found -· Call Joe, 374-3737. Steteo-CIIIIIefte Deck Teak M S perfect condition, fully guaranteed, owned by . audio-specialist. Originally $380. Asking $250. Call Brian, 482-o40 I evenings. If anyone lmeiows of an •partment for one peniOII for tprin& term, please call Ellen at 374-0476. You will have my eternal gratitude as I'm deSperate. Bridse Clllll Meetin& this T ucs. nite at 8, March l, ~ Hale House Upper Lounge. Partners preferred, tho we'll try to match you up if you~re alone. Faculty encou1aged to come; too. Last meeting this tel'lll. FrelliDian Rt:cord meetinJ Tuesday, Marcll 1 at 7 o~clock in student activities. LOST - long navy blue woman's glove with black leather pabn, right hand. - light blue kDit woman's siove with cuff, left hand. - dark brown \llloman's glove with lighter brown leather, left hand. PLEASE return to or contact Box 860. 1AJ11t 0111 let of keyt. About 10 keys on a ring. Lost 2/18. If found please contact Mike at 37(1..6517. REWARD! H you have a few extra hours this Tues. night. March I, why don't you come and plaJ BRIDGE, and meet some reaBJ nice people?! Meet in Hale House Upper Lounse at 8. Last chance you'll have to play this term. Apartment Needed close to campus for spring term only. If a place is available (or if someone in your apartmen~ will be on a term abroad, .l!raduating, etc.) - please caU Ben.at 372-9730. Help cheer 0111' basketball te1iiD on to YictOQI Come to the Assumption (25th), Tufts (26th) games this weekend. H anyone mistakenly picked up a lona areen leather roat, please contact Don, 374-5117. P,S. ~ We have yom long green leather coati SZ5 olfered ..... to drive me home with aU my possadona to Brooklyn af~e• fmals. Call Slleri - 6795 fB~x 10 10) For sa!e - 6.3 cu. ft. brown wood fin1lb tefri&erator. $70. It\s in Brooklyn. CaU~heri -6795(Box 1010) Lost: Great sentimental value. Blue wool/red. ~e, blue lilk lona neck 8CIU'f at fieldhousc last term - fll'st or second basketball game. PLEASE - caU Sheri - 6795 (Box 1010) LOST: red East Longmeadow footbull jacket. Call Ron at 6419. RIDE NEEDED to Long Island or NYC leaving Mar. 4. Cali Ronny London at 370-6487. Ride needed to Boston (Tufts) Friday the 25th. Contact Barb, 209 West or call 346-9369. Ride wauted to Rocbater Friday, Feb. 25. Call HoUy. 3?3,9740 Conaratulations to the new RUC Executive Board. The Volumptuous Jenny Pat11 TOMORROW IS THE RETURN OF THE CUBAN MISSILE CRISJS! .JA GlemJ - Who ever said I was happy about one and a quarter inches? That laughter you heard was not happiness, nor was it joyful ecstasy! JA VaMline Intensive Care Lotion does wonders for your hair! 8-b - I feel bad about last Saturday nig_ht. Plef,tse [ <>rgive me! The Board of Directors of the Bong Corporation is meeting Sat. at 9:00 p.m, in the usual place to discuss getting high on the corporate. Snoop~: don't look now but Samson pooped on your N.Y. dolls album. An - Thanks for being a good buddy. M1r LaLaurie - The diet starts tomorrow! LaMbillll Holly: If you find th~t I'm not at my apartment, please caU me at the theatre, where I am almost certain to be for the next 72 hours or so. P;S. do I know you from somewhere? - Joe Ah, come on, Skwitz, I don't want to write about either Lester Weiss or Matt Lubart ~ hey, no! Don't twist my arm, please! Ouch! OK, ok! 1 give up! Ok, Lester Weiss is as easy to understand as a military defense contract, and Matt Lubart is a rag. Good Enough? MJC, You become a phone hog when you get hyper.- JOUI' roomie C.O. The puka sheDs on a yellow background are so Cllte •• y~ aultle P;O.B.O. You really kn!)w how to rat. Next take lessons on washi~ and dryinc yqur clothes. • your: lllltle MSM • Happy four. I love you. - always, HL · ~y, You mean they're throwing chicken? Rkh, You want a peek? (At the comic books that is!) Cllrla Dan, You ·get it all Wr!)ng ... \Ricluno!ld ill for lovers!\ Dout. See, I rcmentberedl Happy Birthday! Micbele Kd)', 1\.emember... \It's a challenge!\ Sudy aDd Mkbele Slpaa Cbl, Guess where \Skidmore's Heart\ is now! The Hurricane Hippo Heatin11 C9rp. STRIKES AGAIN! Want to know what all these Hippo- Strong companies are? Call the Hippo Strona lafo. Co. 6153 .Today IIIIUb die JJeaianinl or • new bditioil. Each week a personal shall be priuted to a member (pa$t or .present) of Fourth Floor West so they all can say they got a personal. Hopefully other members of other organizations will also begin this tradition and eventually every member of this campiJS shall see their name in print for something other than graduation. Oh what joy and happiness that would bring to the campus! Oh. goodie! Today•s · personal goes to tha.t little sinner and zany coed ... Kathy Ruby! Marimba! Q·Bear: Come home, Love, Snlio;Jy K1te • How many homs are there in three and a half weeks? Drew All - Why do you think they call it \Greek style?\ The Boys Winson- You're a whimp! Dlmlne - I told you about the guys didn't I? Kate· METAXA • ~othipg better. 251 Davidson · Great party Friday! What was in that punch? savior??lll, '!????HELLO ???! ??rl HOW ARE YOU'!??????'??'!!'!'!???. savior 1H M.C.P. (treb) Had a great time! Thanks. Ms. Sbortmke and Chicken Soup, What can I say' I like it. I like it. Bows +Arrows Lai!la & blauren, remember the night one of you needed a room??? sister's keeper Joanie, Thanks, thanks and more thanks!!!! The typewriter +friend!! Attik + lskr, Hi, thanks for the talks, Scot Mary, \'***\It looks great\•••• C J&J&J: Whai is the ruler? Me Sllha, Hll J.K.&C.F~: Hi, .how are you? WRHS JDP, i am unobtainable, but i will do what you say if you put the moves on me. J.J.J. Rich. Hello, Guess Wbo1?? B.K. What & Why??Tt L.H. Why & What???! J.H., How are your rocks doilu:J H.L. - Seven more days, a D 1n English, Incomplete Thesis, .then Jumbo Jacks says onions!!T minus seven and counting. ~ M (P.S. I know that the .above only inflates his alteady massive ego, but he is pretty funny sometimes, even though he is rather portly.) After last Thursday the? in MOR?N. is definitely an AI!! Bozo - greetings from the southlands! Taos, N.M. was wunnerful. All the hippies (yes, there are still hippies) have migrated west. Bozo? - C. CONCORIJIEN:$IS. F,b. 23~ 1977 l :.=~ . ass1:1 :1eDs J,R.P.: Your new growth makes you look ~ore like a ~ed Pillsbucy Dough Boy tbart it does. Jack Nicholsoll• Tbe Mlrr ... J.A.F.: It's a good thing you drive like YCJ>U do, that way fewer peopic see that it's really a partially recycled beer can you drive and not the car you claim. The Capri . .,.... to UNION COLLEGE: Get a job you bunCh of lobs. The IJDa Lob Seott: Is Colpitts really speUed H-A-V·L· 1'-C-E-K? Bob Maadoo Muk: Did Sbe see the tack holes? lnd floor DC . Mil$: Where do you hide your .pictures? GGB MB: I liked yow wall better .before the w¢kend ... tom Mark: Can I have<tbc other pictlll'e? LL Molumuned· BOooa: Did yqu puke wt weekend? Glove aild BOlton To an my ·l'riendt in 1st &: 3rd floo.- Norlh, It's nice to know that I have good Jriends tO talk with. I'll see YOU SO~)D. Many thanks for making me your friend. 'l'be Bearded Man Box 101 Meet you soonm - Dut .... Swami Saakhtnamta ·says to you, \Anyone can IIIDiijS a fortune .if he struggles fo1 only ~t. It iS he who struggl~ to be poor and ends up wealthy with whom we should be anm~ycd~\ Guy~ how was chwch? Chooch - I want your body! Pete - You must use P. and C. and C.M.M.B.C.N.L.T.O.T.D. Don't forget it! Puquini - Just a friend you've not yet met. To o111r frleadly nei&bborhood monarch, Kin& James 1: I hereby challenge your royal chickenheartedness to a duel on the third floo( of the Nott Memorial at 6:30 on Thursday, 24.Feb.1977. Be there! Aloha. King Hippo I No Pete! Two at a time! J.D.P., What does the white rose mean'rm? Love, JJJ J.D.P., I know you love me. JJJ Pinch, Your tops!!l! 424 Betsy, How are the grapefruits????? The Rebel, Hi, HoV~o'b thing1>? Can you take all this snow????/ The Yankee Dear J.D.l'. Love mearu. neve! havmg to say your sorry; ·so is tb,at why you never apologize. to me'l??? JJJ Paul, Tbe Blond,, Hi, How is your chemistry?l??? The Library S.W., Been pinched lately??? What luck!! I!!!!! bot time in four .o Dine, i heard about saturday night. one who was not there! David, E;B.: How, high is high, or was it wine? Or both? Ann. C. SGup & Cake, What would you d.o without merm Probably misbehave, then I would have to tell your. mothers!! I! I Harry. in regard to Tuesday; Happy Birthday! Love, Barb Claire, Welcome to Union College for a few days. Hope you. like yom stay here. Your sis, Barb Secret V~entine, Did you get lost? I have yet to meet ·you. Barb Harry, You ask who Barb is? Ask you~: suitemates, they know.IJarb HL and MR- Great job this year! Jack MuiUlvllle - I could not even get tickets to the Merrimack ·game. T.J. Reddy - Culture editorship open. Write what you want, if you can. See you in twenty years. To anyone whiJ luis done anythin& connected with this raa - Next Tuesday in the office to get wasted. To Playboyf · If you have forgotten yourself in the write-up of lhe foltrth then you are now iDcluded in the rich DlllSS wash. Tile co..1ttee to -.~Jlllb andp04\ wUlmect again. AL: l\A MUT~+ TltJrd F- Wilt: My birthday was ·spectacular. Thank& for making it so special~ Love, Jllll'ile 0..., John,. Kathy, R~ll ~ Terry: Next time we go to the Raft~ can I give directions? Honestly, thagks, it was great to boogie! J~ Mirror, Laura, ·Larl, Shllre-e, Janie, imd 1aaC b!rt ooi leut, Marcia; Thank you sweeties! J-me. ZIIIJ: Never forget I'm your friend forever. Love ya. J, Sorry alloat the delay. Secret Val, - thee kisses were sweet. 301 west ~e: You are ·a master chef, no doubt! My Wae Jam-, ~ not troubled by that teredo Algernon, 2000 pikesman; ~ archers, an«! 500()· lancers shall defend thee unto death. Sir Andr- Of tile F(tl1ultoua Glith Rudl .. ~ to .many more \goQd times\ happy birthday. JOil D.elll - T!tank you for the bath, the shaving cream and most of all for the use of the: typewriter. Happy Marth 1. Jon Jim - You were right about L.L. Bean B. - N.ow that you've joined the ranks of the swingin' singles, how about some action with us locals'! Your place or mine? (Or the files?)\- 'L. Saratop;. Happy Birthday! LQve Second Floor Davidson Nortll Michael Jay: I'm waiting ... Dead Bunny lrv of K: Hello mom, this is Irving ... Irving Who? Sullie: meow,.love HPC Shven: Wvoopie, dotipie!!! Pobo: The equilibrium bag is alive, wash it! Dave & Susie: Congratulations! Does Paul know the Schrodinger equation yet? PaUi & Lisa Sorry about last night. I wasn't really myself. - Peer The Hurricane Hippo Heating Corporation hereby issues a royal deere tbat all blue (and otherwise) adjustable wrenches that res1de in H1ppo Country (but currently are Nott) be returned to King Hippo. Cindy - When are you going to open theJD'I · Al!dy - Do you reaDy want a job with Security THAT much? Hilppy Bifthday, loose and luscious!!! To the guys in Davidson and Fox: Thanks for giving this campus much· needed rowdiness. The &Iris at Richmond love y~u. 8.1(.: Do you know where your children are? To Betty BacaJI: Here's looking at you, sweetheart! Cuz: Like graham crackers much? Personally, I like Belgian Waffles and M~Ptischewitz (while skiing.) To the early momin& bareback rider: Is he or isn't he? K.K.: I like dreamin', 'cause dreamin' 'II make you mine. Your S.A. Brian, What's that thing in yom bedm 115, H, 257 ~IlPPY' Birthday Drew! 2/28/71 US Fred, cut your toenails!!! II Happy Birthday, Rudy! REF - intercollegiate hellos: Here we . HL and MR ~ Thanks for giving me are, in with the in crowd 'n all - Co•Ed. the experience. Boo, It's mom!!!! Debbie and Lin!la W-O·J-N-I-L-0-W-E-R.S- K- E- T - C- E - T- E - R - A, ltnagjne signing that all day long! Enrybody - Thanks for six months of great work!! H.L. & M.R. Oil ria: Own a piece of the rock? Uncle Feste Never tnlnd; stupid really Now if you don't understand some of these, get over to the Nott Memorial Theatre, get a ticket and see the show! Tbere wiD be a GIGAN.TIC snowball opt tonlpt (Wednetlday) in front of Richmond and West! Be thercn! Joe \Mo\ Millett - Your appearances have been infrequent, your writing ability overrated, your typing ability and proofreading skills minimal, but your dedication is overwhelming (so is your ego, considering that you wrote this). Wanda: I'm going to wash my hair Thur~ay o.k.? Cindy: Drink.Jack Daniels much? Blalna: Break 'em on your friends much? Tbls penonlll will be back after station identification. Rich D. - Sherman Plunkett's look alike makes the column once again. Ho&ey - keep on holding the bottle - it's ail alcohOlic's best friend. Paul· C. - painting lessons Monday at 9, piano lessons tonight at 12 - maybe then you'll do something decent. To Cbeesesteak: $20 for $100 by Sunday or.$25 for $187.50 by Thursday Dcua, Happy Blrtl!day. From a trt!IIJmiDaw~ BocMaer, When arc you goiDg to !let the elate? It better be soon or Super Prof. wiD win!A-.aet.- $.8. I hear you don•t like barbers anY'!lorcl Try an Irish hairdt .. serl K,&M M•e - {all typical Sll~m and :itlsults aside) For all the sllit, troubJes and heartaches, it still has been e.xcelleilt Hone H: Want to get plowed? JC JC: No. thanks, I'm too exhau,sted! RK RK: Y cab. I'm feelin' kinda tired and ruildown myself! JC IlK:. JQ.St so you never forget' this: I aee saiil· .the blind carpenter as he picked up his hammer and saw. ll~: Jus! so you ·never forget: Ahl iaid the CIU'JICnter as be picked lip bis \w. (1) To Rlloclte: Wait a sec.ond ~ that~s $92 if you make 60% profit. so 1. should g~ $28. To Clae111i!llttak: that W&l only to get you b)terestcd. I can get you. $15 for $153;80 by Fri.y. To Rllodel: Don't say that ..,... y~u know lhat'$ not true. ])Ollila G. ~ you're still tbe JrC8testll - practice your posture. To &e. Mubattan 'l'l'iiltdwnaalllila - it's sort ·of like bcin,g one of the .last liVing c:ellsin a dead body .... • Ou7 Lalll'ie, Thanks for an interesting evening. Next time can l be the one who flashes you after the party? Jlll show you a lot more than my legs- The Crazy ltaliall Jeff' M. - The shirts areli;t coming, the shirts aren't coming, ~he shirts aren't coming. Jon S; ~ type your articles or I'll give you a terminal case 9f my sleeping sicknc:ssl TriYia question #1007 - What doesn't Dennis Brown put peanut butter oli? Uareat Ricll - Last week's. personal was notmeant to be printed. It was written in a moment of emotional trauma (psyche majors tak.e note). I have no idea how it got 'Printed and I offer my sincerest .apologies. · Paul P.: Oillae wa ahoda! Chris and Mary: What talent! Katby: How does that theorem work again? Jllnk: Hear from CliffWood much? Eoko: What can I say that won't embarTass you what have you done that doesn't embarrass you. M.G. engages in indiscriminate nook! L~tesl rumor \\\' Did you know Janie even·Jaugbs in her sleep? ROll, A word of advice - \The way io fight a woman is with your hat. Grab it and run.\ Jobn Barrymoie Linda, allow me to introduce myself. I am your personal pal, (as in. pen .pal). Each weeki will greet yoil from the pages of the Concol'dy. Next week I'll teli you which of you Lindas r;~ut there is the Lucky Linda. Yom Personal Pal Josie, Thought for the week - \It's the good girls who keep diaries; the bad girls never have tlie time.\ TaUulals Bankbead \Minlia. Toronto is .getting closer all the time! Karen, Thanks a lot for keeping a11 eye out. Roomie, I think being a snob is catching! Sorry Whoosh, whOops, I did it agai11! F,E.J. Thanks for being here. Jette A.N. -Zero! Congrlltuiations. • A.J.B. Kltt.: But who did he leave with? To Martin the · exctun1~ student: I really would like to meet you. your secret admirer n, Mo~tebank!i are doing William Shakespeare's \Twelfth Night or What You Will,\: his only play with an alternate title. The cast and crew of the show, which ope11s Friday, have also provided some alternative titles. All of these are in jokes which you will lioi understand until you see the show (a clever way lo get you. to buy tickets). Here we go! Twelfth. Night or: What you will What you won~t Just between us girls Whatever bit my lace I donlt want to argue about.it! Edgar Allen Hoe Suicidals ·from the planet Mars What employment have we here? Voulei-vous coucher avec rnoi cc soir? Let's argue about it The Babe Ruth Story 1 starring a large cat Why I cat )!Otatoes with my shoes l e~t Malvolios for breakfast (preferably witb banaruu) (

Page 12 LOGt - pair or IOld framed a!a- in black bud lhelled cue. Lost somewhere between Dailey Hall and Carnegie - Reward if found Call Joe, 374-3737. Stereo-Cassette Dedi Teak 360 S perfect condition. fully guaranteed, owned by audio-specialist. Originally $380. Asking $250. Call Brian, 482-0401 evenings. If anyone knows of an 11partmeot for one penon for sprlna term, please call Ellen at 3744176. You will ha\e my eternal gratitude as I'm desperate. Bridle Club Meetina this Tue~. nite at 8, March I, in Hale House Upper Lounge. Partners preferred, tho we'll try to match you up if you're alone. Faculty encourt~ged to come, too. Last meeting this term. Freehman Record medina Tucway, March I at 7 o'clock in student activities. LOST long na~·y blue woman'> glove with black leather palm, right hand. - light blue knit woman's glove with cuff, left hand. - dllTk brown woman's glove with lighter brown leather, left hand. PLEASE return to or contact Box 860. Lolt ose lid of keys. About 10 keys on a ring. Lost 2/18. If found please contact Mike at 370-6517. REWARD! If you have a few extra hours thib Tues. night, March I, why don't you come and play BRIDGE, and meet some reall' nice people?! Meet in Hale House Upper Lounge at 8. Last chance you'll have to play this term. Apartment Needed do>e to campu:. for spring term only. If a place is available (or if someone in your apartment will be on a term abroad, graduating, etc.) -- please call Ben at 372-9730. Help cheer our basketball team on to victOl'}'l Come to the As~umpuon (25th), Tufts (26th) games this weekend. If anyone mistakenly picli.ed up a luna ueen luther coat, please contact Don, 374-5117. P.S. -We have your long green leather coat! 525 offered - to drln me home with All my pot~SCS!ions lo BrooL.l)n .. ttcJ finals. Call Sheri ·· 6795 (Box 1010) For 1181~ - 6.3 cu. ft. brown wood llnlah refrigerator. $70. It'. 1n B1 uui..i)u. Call Shen· 1>795 (Box 1010) Loat: Great sentimental >alue. Blue NOOI/red, whlte, bl~~e aUh long neck ~arf .;t heldhouse last term · fust or second l.d,f.c;~a:: ~d.Uit: PL[:\Sl '<H .. !. h~Q) (Bo\ 1010) I O<.;T rtd f.J~~t I rmgm~edn\ fPn!hall jachet. Call Ron at 0419 RIDE NEEDED to Long Island or NYC leavmg Mar. 4. Call Ronny London at 370-6487. Ride needed to Boston (Tufts) Fnday the 25th. Contact Barb, 209 We>t or call 346-9369. Ride wanted to Rochester Fnday, Feb. 25. Call Holly, 393-9740 Conaratulations to the new RUC Executive Board. The Volumptuous Jenny Patti TOMORROW IS 1 HE RETURN OF THE CUBAN MISSILE CRISIS! JA Glenn - Who ever said I was happy about one and a quarter inches\ That laughter ) ou heard \\a' not happme>>, nor was 11 JOyful ecstasy! JA Vaseline Intensive Care Lotion due' wonders for your hatr! B-b - l feel bad about last Saturday mg_ht. Please for,&)ve me! The Board of Directors of the Bong Corporation is meeting Sat. at 9:00 p.m. m the usual place to discuss getting h1gh on the corporate. Snoops: don't look now but Samson pooped on your N.Y. dolls album. An - Thanks for being a good buddy. Mir LaLaurie - The diet starts tomorrow! LaMirlam Holly: If you find that I'm not at my apartment, please call me at the theatre, where I am almost certam to be for the next 72 hours or so. P.S. do I know you from somewhere~ - Joe Ab, come on, Skwitz, I don't want to wnte about either Lester We1ss or Matt Lubart - hey, no' Don't twist my arm, please! Ouch! OK, ok! I g~ve up! Ok, Lester W etss as as easy to understand as a military defense contract, and Matt Lubart is a fas. Good Enough? CONCOR[!IEN$1S. Feb. 23. 1977 classifiebs MJC, You become a phone hog when you get hyper . your roomie C.O. The puka shells on a yellow background are so cute. • your suitie P.O.B.O. You really know how to eat. Next taJce lessons on washing and dryin& your clothes. · your .Wtie MSM • Happy four. I love you. · always. HL Sandy, You mean they're throwing chicken? Rich, You want a peek? (At the comic books that is 1 ) Cbria Due, You get it all wrong ... \Richmond is for lovers'\ Dou&, See, I remembered! Happy Birthday! Mkhele Kathy, 1\cmember ... \It's a challenge!\ Sandy and Michele Sipla Cbi, Guess where \Skidmore's Heart\ is now' Tbe Hurriame Hippo Heatina Corp. STRIKES AGA!N! Want to know what all these Hippo- Strong companies are? Call the Hippo StrOII&IDfo Co. 61!3 Today marks the be&innln& of a n\w tr.ditlon. Each week a pei'Sonal shall' be printed to a member (past or present) of Fourth Floor West so they all can say they got a personal. Hopefully other members of other organizations will also begin this tradition and eventually every member of this campus shall see their name in print for something other than graduation. Oh what joy and happiness that would bring to the campus' Oh goodie! Today's personal goes to that little sinner and ?any coed ... Kathy Ruby! Marimba! Q·Beu: Come home, Love, Snoopy Kate - How many hours are there in three and a half weeks? Drew AU - Why do you think they call it MGreek style?'' The BoyH Winson- You're a whunp! DiiDIIe ·I told you about the guys didn't I? K11te- MET AXA · Nothmg hetter 251 Davidson - Great party f'nday' What wa' tn that punch\ sgvior??II.Z, ·•»•·•H IJ.I.D ·•m '\.\' HOW ARl YOl; ':\\!'\' .,.,.,.., ...... sa,ior Ill M£.P. (treb) Had a great ttme' ·1 han b. Ms. Shortcake nnd (.'hicken ~oup, \\hat can I 'ill\ 1 I ltke I! l \'e!! Rnw• • ·\rr<l'•\' Laina & blRuren, remember the mght one of you needed a room'_>'>'> sister's keeper Joanle, Thanks. thanh and more thanks'!'! The typewriter+ friend!! Anlk + lskr, Hi. thanks for the talk~. Scot Mary, ••••\lt looks great\•n• C J&J&J: What is the ruler? Me Sasha, HI! J.K.&C.F.: Hi, how are you? WRHS JDP, i am unobtainable, but 1 will do what you say if you put the moves on me. J.J.J. Rich, Hello, Guess Who??? B.K. What & Why???! L.H. Why & What?!'? J.H., How are your rocks doiqg7 H.L. Seven more day~. a D m English, Incomplete Thesis, then Jumbo Jacks says onions!!T minus seven and counting. - M (P.S. I know that the above only inflates his already massive ego, but he is pretty funny sometimes, even though he is rather portly.) Arter Jut Thursday the ? in MOR?N is definitely an A!!! Bozo - greetings from the southlands! Taos, N.M. was wunnerful. All the hippies {yes, there are still hippies) have migrated west. Bozo? - C. REF - intercollegiate hellos; Here we are, in with the in crowd 'n all - Co·Ed. Everybody - Thanks for six months of great work!! H.L. & M.R. Olivia: Own a piece of the rock? Uncle Feste Never mind; stupid really Now if you don't understand some of these, get over to the Nott Memonal Theatre, get a ticket and see the show! There will be a GIGANTIC snowball fl&ht tonlaht (Wednesday) in front of Richmond and West! Be there!!! J.R.P.: Your new growth makes you look more like a bearded Pillsbury Dough Boy than it does Jack Nicholson. The Mirrow J.A.F.: It's s good thing you drive like you do, that way fewer people see that it's really a partially recycled beer can you drive and not the car you claim. The Capri Ownetr to UNION COLLEGE: Get a job you bunch of lobs. The 1Un1 Lob Scott: Is Colpitts really .spelled H-A-V-L- 1-C-E-K? Bob Macadoo Mark: Did she see the tack holes? lnd Roor DC Mlll'k: Where do you hide your pictures? GGD MB: I liked your wall better before the weekend ... Tom Mark: Can I have the other picture~ LL Mohammed BUoon: Did you puke last weekend? GIO\It IIJ1d Boston To aU my friendt In lst &: 3rd floor North, It's nice to know that I have good friends to talk with. I'll see you soon. Many thanks for making me your fr·iend. TIDe Bearded Maa Box 1631 Meet you soon'm Dutchman Swami Suatc:bananda says to you, K Anyone can amass a fortune if he struggles for only that. II ib he who struggles to be poor and ends up wealthy with whom we should be annoyed.\ Gary - how was church? Cbooch I want your body! Pete - You must use P. and C. and C.M.M.B.C.N.L.T.O.T.D. Don't forget it! Puqulnl - Just a friend you've not yet met. To our friendly nei&hborhood monarch, Kin& James 1: I hereby challenge )our royal chi~kenhe<~rtedne>o tu a duel on the third floor of the :-.!ott Memorial at 6:30 on Thursday, 24.Feb.l977. Be there! Aloha. King Hippo I !'tio Pete! Tv.o at a tim~: J.D.P., What does the whlle rose mean'.\!\\' Love, JJJ J.D.P., I kno~> you love me. JJJ Plneb, Your top~!!!! 424 Betsy, How are the grapefruit>''.\.\'~ The Rtbtl, II.. Jl,.v. ·, ihwe;, · l .. t. ! \\ take allth1~ ;now\\'\\' The Yankee JJear J.JJ.i'. Ltnc lllCdH> IIC\cl na\ng to '\) )our >orr}. >o I> that Y.h) )UU nc\er apologize to me???? JJJ Paul, The Blond, Hi, How as your chemistry?'!??? The Library S.W., Been pinched lately')')'} What luck!!!!!!!! bot time In four 0 nine, i heard about saturday night. one who was not there! David, E.B.: How. hagh a; h1gh, or Y.a> 11 v.ine~ Or both' Ann C. Soup & Cake, What would you do without me???? Probably misbehave, then 1 would have to tell your mothers!!!!! Harry, in regard to Tue;day, Happy Birthday! Love, Barb Claire, Welcome to Union College for a few days Hope you like your >Ia) here. Your !!lis, Barb Secret Valentine, D1d )OU get lo;t? I have yet to meet you. Barb Harry, You ask who Barb is 0 Ask your. suitemates, they know. Barb HL and MR - Great job this year! Jack MaranvUle - I could not even get tickets to the Merrimack game. T.J. Reddy - Culture editorship open. Write what you want, if you can. See you in twenty years. To anyone who has done anything connected with this rag - Next Tuesday in the office to get wasted. HL and MR - Thanks for giving me the experience. Joe \Mo\ Mlllett - Your appearances have been infrequent, your writing ability overrated, your typing abillty and proofreading skills minimal, but your dedication is overwhelming (so is your ego, considering that you wrote this). Wanda: I'm going to wash my hair Thursday o.k.? Cindy: Drink Jack Daniels much? Blaina: Break 'em on your friends much? To Playboy! If you have forJ!olten . yourself in the write-up of the fourth then you are now included in the rich mass wash. The c:OIIlllllttee to establish antipodes will meet aaain. AL: YA MUTUA+ TbJrd Floor Weill: My birthday was spectacular. Thanks for. makinJl it so special. Love, Jamie Dau, Jolm, Kadly, Rich and Terry: Next time we go to the Rafters can I .give directions? Honestly, thanks, it was great to boogie! Jamie Mirror, Laurer, Larl, Sbue-e, Janie, and Jut but not least, Mucia; Thank you sweeties! J·me. ZJay: Never forget I'm your friend forever. Love ya, J. Sony about the delay, Secret Val. the kisses were sweet. 301 west Squeeae: You are a mast.er chef, no doubt! M1 lefae Jamn, be not troubled by that teredo Algernon, 2000 pilr.esman, 3000 archers, and 5000 lancer& shall defend ~bee unto death. Sir Andrew of the FortuitoUI Girth Rudi - to many more \good times\ happy birthday. Jon Deba -- Thank you for the bath, ·the shaving cream and most of all for the 1ue of the typewriter. Happy March I. Jon Jim - You were right about L.L Bean B. - Now that you've joined the ranks of the >wingin' singles, how about ;orne action with us locals? Your place or mine? (Or the files?) - L. Saratoaa: Happy Birthday! Lon Second Floor Davidron North Michael Jay: I'm waiting ... Dead Bunny lrv of K: Hello mom, this is Irving ... Irving Who~ Susi~: meow, love HPC Sbwen: W\oopie, doopie!!! Pobo: The equilibrium bag i; <Lii\e, v.a .. h it! Dave & Susie: CongratulatiOns! Does Paul knoY. the S..:hrodinger equation )et'? Patti & Lisa Sorry about last night. I wasn't really my>elf. · Peer The Hurricane llippu Healing Corporation hereby is;ue; a royal deere that all blue (and otherwise) adjustable -'ltH<.hc• Lhdl Jt>u.k m li1ppu l.uunll) (but .:urrentl) are :'-iutt) be returned to Kmg Hippo. Cindy - When are you gomg to open the JD? Andy - Do you really want a job with Secunty THA 1 much'! Happy Birthday, loose and lu>cious!!! To the guys in Davidson and Fox: Th<~nk> for gi\ mg this campu; mu.:h· needed roY-dines> The girls at Richmond love Yl?U· B.K.: Do you know where your children are? To Beny Baeall: Here's lookmg at )ou, sweetheart! Cuz: Like graham crackers much? Personally, I like Belgian Waffle> and Manischewitz {while skiing.) To the early mornin& bareback rider: h he or isn't he? K.K.: l like dreamin'. 'cau;e dreamin' 'II make you mine. Vour S.A. Brian, What's that thing in your bed??? ll5, H, 257 Happy Birthday Drew! 2/28/77 115 Fred, cut your toenails!!!!! Happy Birthday, Rudy! Boo, It's mom!!!! Debbie and Linda W-0-J-N-1-L-0-W-E-R-S- K - E • T • C - E • T • E - R - A. Imagine signing that all day· long! This personal wlll be back after station identification. Rich D. - Sherman Plunkett's look alike makes the column once again. Hoaey - keep on holding the bottle - it's an alcoholic's best friend. Paul C. - painting lessons Monday at 9, piano lessons tonight at 12 - maybe then you'll do something decent. To Cheesesteak: $20 for $100 by Sunday or S25 for $187.50 by Thursday Dona, Happy Birthday. From a fralunan IWeetbeart Boomer, When are you going to set the ·date? It better be soon or Super Prof. will win! A ~eaet admirer S.B. I heRr you don't like barbers anymore! Try an Irish hairdresser! K&M Mike - (all typical sarcasm and insults aside) For all the shit. .troubles and heartaches, it still has been excellent - 'Howie RK: Want to get plowed'? JC JC: No, thanks, I'm too exhausted! RK RK: Yeah, I'm feelin' kinda tired and rundown myself! JC RK: Just so you never forget· this: I see said' the blind carpenter as he picked up his hammer and saw. RK: Just so you never forget Ah! said the carpenter as he picked up his saw.(?) To Rbocletl! Wait a second - that's $92 if you make 60% profit, so I should get $28. To Cbeecetteak: That was only to get you interested. I can get you S I S for $153.80 by Friday. To Rhodes: Don't say that - you know that's not true. Donna G. - you're still the greatest!! - practice your posture. To the Manbattau wbatdlamacalllls it's sort of like being one of the last living cells in a dead body .... Crazy Lurie, Thanks for an interesting evening. Next time can I be the one who flashes you after the party? I'll show you a lot more than my legs - Tbe Cruy Italian Jefi M. - The shirts aren~t coming, the shirts aren't coming, the shirts aren't corning. Jon S. - type your articles or I'll give you a terminal case of my sleeping sickness! Trivia question #1007 - What doesn't Dennis Brown put peanut butter on? Dearest Rich - Last week's personal was not meant to be printed. It was written in a moment of emotional trauma (psyche majors take note). I have no idea how it got printed and I offer my sincerest apologies. Paul P.: Omae wa aho da' Chris and Mary: What talent! K111tby: How does that theorem \\ork agaan·.> Han!!: H!'ar fr<>m Cltff Wn\d mul'h'' Koko: What can I >ay that won't emh.1rr.t'' ;\~ '-'lldt h .. ,, jvu Jonr lh.Jt doesn't embarrass you. M.G. engages in jndiscriminate nook! Latest rumor · Did you know Janie even Ia ughs in her sleep? Ron, A word of advice -- \The way to fight a woman is with your hat. Grab it and run.\ John Barrymore Linda, allow me to introduce myself. am your personal pal. (as in pen pal). Each week I will greet you from the pages of the Contordy. Next week I'll tell you which of you Lindas out there is the Lucky Linda. Your Personal Pal Josie, Thought for the week - \It's the good girls who keep diaries; the bad girls never have the time.\ Tallulah Bankhead Mlll'tba, Toronto is getting closer all the time! Karen, Thanks a lot for keeping an eye out. Roomie, I think being a snob is catching! Sorry Whoosh, whoops, I did 11 again! F.E.J. Thanks for being here. Jette A.N. -Zero! Congratulations. • A.J.B. Kitta: But who did he leave with? To Martin the exchange student: really would like to meet you. your secret admirer Th~ Mountebanks are doing William Shakespeare's \Twelfth Night or What You Will,\ his only play with an alternate title. The cast and crew of the show, which opens Friday, have also provided some alternative titles. All of these are in jokes which you will not understand until you see the show (a clever way to get you to buy tickets). Here we go! Twelfth Night or: What you will What you won't Just between us girls Whatever bit my lace I don't want to argue about it! Edgar Allen Hoe Suicidals from the planet Mars What employment have we here? Voulez-vous coucher avec moi ce soir? Let's argue about it The Babe Ruth Story, starring a large cat Why I eat potatoes with my shoes I e~t Malvolios for breakfast (preferably with bananas) ( s I(] IV F F 0

BECOME A COLL·EGE CAMPU~ .DEALER Sell Brand Name Stereo Components at lowest prices. High profits; N 0 INVEST· MENT REQUUtED. For details, contact: FAD Components, Inc. 20 Passaic Ave., Fairfield, New Jersey 07006, Bene Orlow.sky, 201-227·6884, Call Collect. Upsilon are running a swim-a- thou, proceeds going to The . American Cancer Society, on Saturday, February 26th, from 10 a.m. 'til14 p.m. in the Foote Memorial Pool in Alumni Gym. Attention RAs and fraternities - a keg of beer will be awarded · to the independent and fraternity who sponsor the most swimmers (total money· sponsored). Pick up information and sponsor-sheets in the Intra- mural Office in Alumni Gym. The public is welcome to. · participate in lengths-for~lives. So get wet for cancer arid contribute to a good cause. We. need your help. Thank you and good luck. Forum Continued from Page 1 educational program. Page 13 CuFrent constraints on the budget make it impossible to implement changes in. the educational program. Without decreasing the ·priority given to some other aspect of the College. Furthermore. because budgets are finalized over a year before they are implemented, changes cannot be implemented at the time th~t they ani initiated. Hence. there IS currently a lag in instituting innovations in the educational program. Glenn emphasized that the Internal Educational Foundation was not intended to be a .. slush\ fund or fund of last resort. The fund' would be supported by tuition charges. lt is estimated that $150,000 out of the $900,000 increase in total tuition for the academic year 1977-78 will be used to finance the fund in its initial year. Funds would be distributed for one of three reasorts. First, the · Planning and Priorities and Educational Policy Committees could recommend projects that they feel the school needs to be developed (for instance, developing an honors program or a new general education program). Second, the committee overseeing the funds can initiate a study for innovation. Finally, the funds could also be ttsed to allow faculty and stUdents to work on projects where money is needed in order for effective research to be carried out. Glenn asked that the forum discuss the proposal with as many students as possible so that in two or three weeks the forum could give him some feedback as to how the students feel about the matter. Athletics and Pre-Health The forum then turned its attention to the Athletic Task Force report. The debate was heated. However. because no specifics were being discussed, no conclusions were reached. The last item on the agenda dealt with the Pre-Health Society. This organization has had its sanctioning questioned in the past few weeks. The forum decided to have the club submit a new constitution, detailing its goals and objectives, to the Committee on Committees for consideration. Simultaneously. the organization will attempt to repay the $60 it inadvertantly took from Student Tax. Union Ph•rm•cy 600 Ullioa St.· Mm&Womm Student N.- 314->• ... ..

BECOME A COLLEGE CAMPUS DEALER Sell Brand N :ame Stereo Components at lowest prices. High profits; NO INVEST· MENT REQUIRED. For details, contact: FAD Compoments, Inc. 20 Passaic Ave., Fairfield, New Jersey 07006, Ilene Orlowsky, 201-2Z7-(;884, Call Collect. The brothers Upsilon are running a swim-a- thon, proceeds going to The American Cancer Society, on Saturday, February 26th, from 10 a.m. 'till 4 p.m. in the Foote Memorial Pool in Alumni Gym. Attention RAs and fraternities - a keg of beer will be awarded to the independent and fraternity who sponsor the most swtmmers (total money sponsored). Pick up information and sponsor-sheets in the Intra- mural Office in Alumni Gym. The public is welcome to participate m lengths-lor-lives. So get wet lor cancer and contribute to a good cause. We need your help. Thank you and good luck. Forum Continued from Page cd w.:allunal program. Current constramts on the budget make It impossible to tmplcmcnt changes in the educational program \-liithout decreasmg the pnonty given to some other aspect of the l \ollege. Furthermore, bc~.:aust: budgets arc imah.t.ed over a year beiorc the) are Implemented, changes cannot be Implemented at the time th~t the} arc Initiated. Hence, there IS currently a Jag in mstituting mnovatwns m the educational program. Glenn cmpha~i.t.cd that the Internal Educational Foundation was n<'lt intended to he a \slush\ lund or fund of last resort. The !iund would be supported by tmtion charges. It IS esllmated that $150,000 out of the $900,000 incn:a~c in total tuition for the academic year 1977-78 will be used to finance the fund in its initial year. Fund:. ~ould be distributed for one ol ~hree reasons. hrst, the Planning and Priorities and Educational Policy Committees could recommend projects that they feel the school needs to be developed (for instance. dc\cloping an honors program or a new general education program). Second. the committee overseeing the funds can initiate a study for innovation. Finally, the t unds could also be used to allow faculty and students to work on projects where money is needed in order for effective research to be carried out. Glenn asked that the forum discuss the proposal with as many students as possible so that in t\-liu or three weeks the forum could give him some feedback as to how the students feel about the matter. Athletics and Pre-Health The forum then turned its attention to the Athletic Task Force report. The debate was heated. However, because no specifics were being discussed, no conclusions were reached. The last item on the agenda dealt with the Pre-Health Society. This organization has had its sanctioning questioned in the past few weeks. The forum decided to have the club submit a new constitution, detailing its goals and objectives, to the Committee on Committees for consideration. Simultaneously, the organization will attempt to repay the $60 it inadvertantly took from Student Tax. Union Pharmacy 600 Union St.· Men&Womm Student Needs 374<-38

Page 14 CONCOR[)!E!f~.!_~! Feb. 23, }977 Tracksters Continue Record. Breaking by ROCKY DOl.AN The Union College Indoor Track Team entered the fourth annual Marty McDonagh Invitational at the RPI fieldhouse on Sunday and ran. into an old nemesis, Plattsburgh State, Union placed second to the Cardinals, scoring I I 6 points. which is good enough to rout most classic track meets of this type, The Dutchmen's point total was more than twice that of the next Closest competitor - Plattsburgh and Union dominated the scoring from the first event to the last by combining to set eight new meet records, Union was led by hne indivi- du~d performances from junior . co-captain Bob, Moffatt, sopho- more Kevin Scheuer, and by their amazing underclass hurdling light brigade, Motlatt extended his unbeaten string in the six hundred yard dash by running away from a star-studded field to win in J: 13.7 5. Scheuer kept his own streak in the thousand yard run intact by disappearing from the race halfway through it to triumph by a wide margin in 2:16. L Although both of these times were somewhat short of the duo's nationally ranked efforts (due to the tight curves and slow surface in the RPI fieldhouse), each was good enough to set new fteldhouse and meet records. This season, Moffatt and Scheuer have THUR., FEB. 24 THRU WED., MAR. l This weekly calendar will comple ALL the events occuring on the campus. To publicize an event, please submit materials to the Student Activities Office in Carnegie Hall by Monday, 12:00 Noon. This information will also be forwarded to Concordiensis and Campus Chronicle. (Information to be included in the Campus Chronicle should be submitted two weeks prior to the event.) THURSDAY, Feb. 24 Administrative and Engineering Systems Colloquium - Speaker: Prof. Terry S. Weiner, Sociology Dept. Topic: .. The Black Physician Assistant: Commitment to Community of Origin.:' 4:00 PM Bailey Hall 207 Chess Club 7:00-10:00 PM, Hale House Upper Lounge Outing Club 7:30-8:30 PM Strauss Lounge Christian Fellowship Meeting 7:30 PM Bronner House RUMOR: Union College in Schenectady, New York, has offered Wahoo McDaniel over $8.5,000 a year to coach wrestling· and footbalL Wahoo, whose doctors have cauiioned him against wrestling much longer, is on the verge of accepting the offer. FACT: Wahoo has never heard of Union College nor about any c:oac:hing post. As for his giving up wrestling, McDaniel declares, .. No one, including some quack doctors, will tell me when to quit! I'll wrestle forever!'' yet to comp~ie •n a fieldhouse where they both don't hold the records in their respective events by the time they are through with their day's work. Sophomore Matt Blum once again led a virtual parade of Union runners in the 55 yard high hurdles. There were over ~5 hurdlers entered at the start of the meet, and this number narrowed down to 6 qualifiers for the final, of which number were 4 Union athletes who finished 1-2-3-4 with Blum out in front with a time of 6.9 seconds. This as well was a new fieldhouse record, the third one Blum has broken this year. In second .place was sophomore IC4A qualifier Mark· Decker (who owns a share in two of Blum's past records) at 7.1, in third was freshman Phil Stegeman in 7.15, and in fourth was freshman Mark Nazon at 7.25. Over the past four weekends Blum, Decker and Stegeman have managed to totally control the hurdles scoring in the Dutchman's favor, and this Sunday with the newcomer Nazon the group contributed an astounding Z8 points to the final Union total. Freshmen Matt GuilfQyle and Dave Cozzens placed second in their events and picked up 8 points apiece. Guilfoyle, finally given a chance to compete individually .after loyal and able service on Coach Michelsen's mile relay team, jumped at the Free Film \Sons of the Desert\ sponsored by the Public Relations Committee 8:00 PM SSO 16 Glee Club Concert - Union Students free; faculty and other students $1.00; general admission $2.00 8:00PM Memorial Chapel Cabaret 9:00-11:00 PM FRIDAY, FEB. 25 Planning & Priorities Committee Meeting All members of the Union Community are invited. 12:15 PM Phi Beta Kappa Room, Library Mathematics Colloquium ~ Dr. Jack Silverstein of Brown University. 3:30 PM Bailey Hall 201 Chemistry Seminar - Dr. Felek Jachimowicz, Syracuse School of Forestry will discuss \Violation of Chemical Non- opportunity and sprinted to a second place in the open quarter mile dash. His time was 52.2 ~ fast in RPrs stadium. Cozzens leaped 6-7, and placed second in the open high jump. This .teap was on'ly one inclt away from Plat~sburgh's Larry Parker, who set two fieldhouse records during the afternoon. Classmate Keith Crimmins followed Cozzens in the high jump by leaping 6-2 to tie for fourth. Seniors Stan Wiskoski and Bruce Bonano each contributed third place efforts. Wiskoski ran to a 4:25.4 in the mile, streaking past two other competitors in a patented hou~e-burning Wiskoski finish. The time was only seconds from his best-a tough task on a slow surface. Co-captain B<?nano leaped to 13 feet even in the pole vault to place third. among some very rough competitors (the calenoar The MonteiWaks present - \Twelfth Night\ directed 'by Barry Smith. Tickets at box office, 370- 6153. Will play Feb. 26 & 27 and March 2-5. 8:00 PM Nott Memorial Theater Varsity Basketball- Union vs. Assumption 8:00PM Away Ice Hockey - . Union vs.' Merrimack 8:00 PM Achilles Rink SATURDAY, FEB. 26 Track Union competes against top teams of the Capital District. 12:00 PM Memorial Field House Women's Caucus Meeting 11:00 AM-2PM Hale House Upper Lounge \Acts of Hommage\ - one-act play. Directors Lab Theatre - 3:00PM Crossing Rule in Gas Piotonation Film Committee presents - of 3,5,8, 10 - Tetramethyl \Harold and Maude\. A crazy, Aceheptylene.\ 4:30 PM Science hilarious cult film about a love Center NW116 affair between a suicidal 18 year Women's Caucus 4:30-6:30 PM Strauss Lounge WAHOO \ • • • ·: .... ;II, • old (Bud Cort) and a life loving 80 year old (Ruth Gordon). Directed by .Hal .. Ashley (\Shampoo\ and \Last Detail\) All times $1.25. 7:00, 9:00, 11:00 PM SSU16 Band & Beer Party ~ Edwards House Lenox Road - Beer is free! SUNDAY, FEB. 27 Women~s Caucus meeting II :00 AM-2:00 PM Hale House Upper Lounge Song Recital with Steven Cole, Tenor accompanied by Hugh Allen Wilson. Cole is a Union Music Graduate who has recently sung in \Porgy & Bess\ in New York City. 4:00 PM Arts Bldg., Room 202 winning leap wa$ 14-6). .Sophomores Earl Chilton and Lee Parish picked Up fourth place finishes. in the triple jump and fifty yard dash. Chilton flew to 42.-9!--2 anc;l Parish was clocked in 5.6 secofids ~ only three- hundretbs from tbird 'Place. As usual, the relay~ qf Coach Michelsen were 'tllc; cream of the crop. Union's one and two mile relays won with. clifferins degrees of ease, and the. distance medley quartet placed second, Tire two mile relay was the first of the day's big events and set the afternoon's tempo for Union. Bob Moffatt lead off with a fast 1:57.6 split to give the Dutchmen an early lead. He was in turn followed by Stan Wiskoski· and freshman Pete Vielkind, whose 1:59.2:00 splits lengthened the lea~l. Kevin Scheuer put the race awa;y, running a l:S7 which gave Union CQilege the win, the meet and fieldhouse ~ecords and an overall time of 7:53.6 ~ only one second off the Unjon record for the event. This crew was followed midway through the afternoon by the distance medley gang. Bob Moffatt ran a half mile, freshmen Pete Conway an~ Pete Vielkind ran quarter and three-quarter ~ile legs, and StaQ Wlskoski brought it home im tile mile for an overall time of 10:49.2 (individual times not available). Finally, in the last event ofthe day, an exhausted mile relay team Film .Committee presents - \Harold and Maude\ 7:00, 9:00, ll:OO PM SSOJ6 Catholic Mass followed, by Social 7:30 PM Carnegie Hall, Sfrauss Lounge Jewish ·student Organization - Hillel presents the play \\China Doll\. 7:30 PM Director's Lab Theater .took the· trac.;k. In a clqse and exciting race four very weary Union College atllletes struggled · through a quarter mile apiece to outla.st a · fresh Plattsburgh QU!iirtet. Freshman Matt Guilfoyle headed off the race, and handed over to Vielkind, for whom it was · tbe third race of tbe day. He gave to Kevin Scheuer, in his tbird effort of the day, who handed off to Bob Moffatt. This was Moffatt•s fourth race of the day, · and so it was with the mQst intense effort that the co-captain was able to edge ·past the Plattsburgh com~titor at the bead of the stretch and hold on at the finish. So close Wa!J the end .of the -race, both. teams were awarded tlte same time - 3:29.2, or some· ten. seconds ·off the team's previous best time, possibly due to the fact that not ()De of the four had mot¢ than an hour's rest since their last race. Coach Michelsen was pleased \Vith the \great\ ~r.oup effort the team gave, but was somewhat di$appointed with the loss to Plattsburgh. This. coming Saturday, he- pointed out, is the Capital District Championships .here at Union against Hudson Valley, Albany State, Siena, and RPI, where some of the team will be able to' let loose and aim for a good time on their home track. The weekend following that is the lC4A Championship!! in Princeton, and that is where the ultimate efforts of\'his ·talented young squad will be needed. form with . Groueho crooning 'Lydia the Tatooed Lady'. .. Fre3ks\ is a horror film .• perhaps the finest that Hollywood ever produced, directed by Tod Browning (l>racula) and featuring real freaks. 7:00,,·9:00, J 1:00 PM SSOI6 V .Basketball - Union · vs. Albany 8:00 PM Home · The Montebanks presents - Coffee House ~ Red Clay ''Twelfth Night .. 8:()0 PM Nott Ramblers 8:30 PM Old Chapel Memorial Theater Women's Ice Hockey- Union vs. RPI 9:00PM Away MONDAY, FEB. 28 Film sponsored by the Political Forum -free of charge \Hearts and Minds\ 1:00 PM and 9:00 PM SSOl6 Soclal Committee Meeting - open to all students 4:30 PM Strauss Lounge stuttgart Chamber Orchestra - A concert of works by Pachelbel, J.S.Bach, Strauss and Britten, part of the Schenectady Museum-.( Union College Concert Series 8:30 PM Memorial Chapel WEDNESDAY, MARCH 2 International Students Women's Basketball ~{)nion Coalition 3:30-6:00 PM Strauss vs. Green Mountain 7:00 PM Lounge ·Home lntellectqal Cabaret with Protect Your Environment (;lub ''Sharin,g the Resources: ·· . 'Can American Democracy Survive?' \ 8:30 PM Strauss Lounge Deadline for Pre-Registration - A $10.00 late fee will be assessed thereafter TUESDAY., MARCH 1 J. V. Basketball Union vs. Albany 6:00 PM Home Ice Hockey - Union vs. Oswego 7:00 PM Away Film Committee presents- \At the Circus .. 1 \Freaks A special double ti,:ature! \At the Circus\ features the Marx Brothers in fine Student Forum Meeting 7:00- 9:30 PM Fox Lounge Psychology Department is presenting a lecture by Dr. Peter G. Ossorio, Associate Professor of ·Psychol()gy at the University of Colorado entitled \A Funny Way to Study Humor\. 8:30 PM SSOI6 Fern Flomenhaft and Danny Wojnilower have been elected editors-in-chief of Contordy for a two term tenure beginning in the spring. We would like t() take this· opportunity to offer them our · wa~:mest congratulations and . wish them ;the best of luck. · - Last. Dutchme wea:ker- c stretch ol Cortland of 77,{,1. of.victor,: numerQil foul shot hand, fai large he were no1 men insi The Cortland l-2-2 tempotai attack. managed offensive early leal a few q assumed be heac Dutchml wiped o1 Cortlanc sch<iolya for. ten Dragom by li~l~t The t' was set layup I Smith tl points a and .rm •• Coacl College to St. Saturda prestigil Cham pi amasse< grapple 17 tOlJ!l Unio pound , from S the hi Dutchn fourth altbOUj disappc by no perforn Paquet I Paqu pounds a c.los

and e to was bird off was the the Dat due· the rest the to the and will a . the in the aps el bel, ries 2 is I .\ ~. ' . { f t \ , ,' • ~ • 7 ~ coNcoRDIENsis. ie6, ·23, \I97t Page 15 6port6 Dutchmen Defeat Dragons Decisively by LANCE BOBROW ' Last . Saturday, the Union Dutchmen · played ope of . their wea;ker. op.pQ~~nts oyer tpis last stretch of the s~son downing ;the Cortland Dragons by a fin;t·l score ef 771)1. Oespi~ethe large margin of victocy, the Dutchmen, missed n~merQiiS layups as well as 17 foul sh0ts. C()rtla~td on the other hand, failed to make use of their large height advantage as they were not able to find.-theit big men inside with any £onsistency. The game opened with Cortland in c;ontrol as they 11sed a 1-2.,2 zone defense which tenipQtJ:~:tily stalled the Union attack. The Dragons also managed several baskets on offensive rebouads to take the early lead. K..R. Marshall then hit a few quick ba.skets and Union assumed the lea4 that was. never' to be headed. At one time, tlre Dutchmen bad an eig~t. point lead wiped out when Wayne Brown of Cortland showed some fine · schciolyard ~oves in ·connecting for. ten . f)qints, . enabliJJ.g the . · Dragons to· k,not the count at Jl by ·halftime: · · · · ' ·- ' - most· .of the secQnd half with an advantage of about ten points. Greg S:obocinski was able to hit six .straight foul shets for Union down the stretch preventing Cortland .from getting within striking distance Pi Union .. Besides the clutch free throw shooting. of Sobocinski, there were several other heroes for the Dutchmen. The main man for Union tonight as he has been in many other baHg~mes this season, was rUgged center Mike Smitb. Smith scored 20 points as well as ruling. both backboards with 12 rebounds. Also, Pete Meola showed some pinpoint shooting coming off the btmcb to score 17 points ott 8 of tO from the field. Fin~lly, Tom Buiocchi did a creditable job coming off the bench to spell Steve Nearpass who got .inta foul trouble. Buiocchi got his chance to play in this game and snowed he could do the job. Coach Scanlon used a juggled lineup to p1,1t the ga,me away in the second half, perhaps planning for B.ext year. In any event, despite the juggling of the lineup by coach Scanlon, the Union Outchmen ate now 9-10 for the season with a very tough weekend road trip coming up. This Friday, Union play.s a very .tough Assumption ballclub. On Saturday, the schedule does not .get much easier as they play the Tufts Jumbos. Next Tuesday is the last game of the season and it will be played right here against the Great Danes ef Albany State. Game time for all of these games will be 7:55 over WRUC with the exceptien of :the Assumption game which can be seen at 8:00 on Channel 27. Pete Meola shoots for two. ·swimmers Put it all Together by ALAN HERTZBERG season, and it was also the last Alan Hertzberg. yard breaststroke, has qualified victory at home for the two On March 2, 3, and 4 those for the 200 and l 00 yard The tempo for the second half was set by the opening steal and layup by Gary Borgese. Mike Smith then adde(i five consecutive points and the Dutchmen were off and running. Union then spent Last Saturday the Union Senior members of the team, members of the team who have breaststroke. Marty King, the \College Swim Team overpowered Captain Keith Jacobson and lrv qualified for the Upper New York team's top backstroker, has St. Michael's. at Foote Pool by a Kaufman. Both seniors rose to State Championship Meet will qualified for the 100 yard score of 78 to 27. It was the swim the occasion Saturday as Keith travel to St. Lawrence University. backstroke. Mark Peronto, the ' \• ·\ , .. ··~·- .. te.a _ _w:s .fi~styictQ.!Y .. ~.'!t _JIQJP,-~. t~is .. turned_i[\~his best ti~e of the year Nick Gassaway, who has recorded freshman from Pittsfield, Mass .• \ · · - · · · ·[rr· th~~<t:50 ·T!ytit:d''\'fr~s~yl~\ 27 .2, th.e bes~ titnes on tb~: tea,m thus .. has qualified for the 200 and 100 G .. r a·' p. P. ·. ·l. ·e r·. s ' PI a c. - '·e. . . ::!c~;a:l!~o!!~::e~~,ll:ir 1 ~~:t - i~di~~~~a:~e~~r ~:~ 2 :~/;~~- . i::~d-~~:f~~::Y·fo~ 1 ~he: :~gr;:~~ time in the 500 yard freestyle, and 100 yard Butterfly. Doug Individual Medley, 200 yard 5:55.5. The Dutchmen won 11 of Richardson, the team's top breaststroke, and 100 yard 7 h e T 13 events in ·the meet, The distance .swimmer, has qualified breaststroke. Also, Tom Burgess . t ·. ·.. In '. . o· u· r. n· . '.. ey· . winners were Doug Richardson, for the 1650 yard freestyle, 500 and Phil Heubner are expected to ~ Tom Broderick, Jimmy Lowe, yard freestyle, and 200 yard qualify for the States when the Roy Lipson, Nick Gassaway, freestyle .. Jimmy Lowe, who team travels to St. Lawrence Rich Agnello, Mark Peronto, p'laced secc;>nd last year at the Wednesday for its last dual meet by,.J:ON SCHORR. Coach· Wa:treti ·crow's Union College wrestling team ventured to St. Lawrence University last Saturday to participate in the prestigious New York State Championship meet. The squad amassed 36 points to place the grapplers seventh in 'the field of 17 tough competitors. Union's effort was led by 126 pound freshmen Carl Calabria , from Schenectady, N.Y. He was the highest finisher for the Dutchmen, gaining a hard-fought feurth place finish. Also, although somewhat of a disappointment, Coach Crow was by no means displeased by the performance .of co-captains Mike Paquette and Jim Sutton. Paquette finished fifth at 177 pounds, losing his third match by a close score. It should be mentioned that·· he looked very impressive during_ his two victories. Sutton, wbo finished sixth in the 150 pound class, began with a first round bye and then proceeded to take his second round match by decision. Then, Sutton wa:s forced to default in the semi-finals to a Colgate opponent who went on to win this weight class. Unfmtunately, Sutton's injury will prevent him from competing in the Division HI national tournament on March ~5. Coach Crow was pleased with the seventh place finish but also felt that. the team could have done much better. The grapplers will next appear at the nationals with the hope of gaining some medals. Be there-aloha! · Fran Rindene/l(;) in action. Phil Heubner, Marty King, and Champioa:ship meet iti' the 100 of the year. • -'I Women's Hoop·Splits Four· These past weeks, the women's basketball team faced various levels of competition. Each game had a unique tone and character. Without the extra muscle of Liz Yager, the Dutchwotrten tasted defeat at the hands of Skidmore, losing 47 to 40. A tremendous effort was put forth by Donna SockeU with 22 points and II rebounds. Union ran and fought hard to beat Siena 57 to 5~: Kathy Lett chalked up 19 breaks while Donna and Sandi Key scored 11 points respectively. on fast Sock ell 13 and Yager, Sandi and Donna dominated the offensive and defensive boards adding to the team effort. Green M6untain State tried to use sheer muscle against the Union women. But with Donna Sockell's scoring and rebounding, and w.itn Liz Yager's strong News Wrestling - On Thursday, h.bruar} 24th there will he a wre.stlu1g tournament for all mtercsted students, faculty and · s.tall. W c1ght da~~c~ v. ill he determmcd JUst prior to the match. Entnes arc currently hctng accepted m the Intramural Ofhcc located in the Alumni Gym. Wrist Wrestling - A wrist wrestling teurnament will be conducted o.n Thursday. March 3 at 7:00 p.m. in the A.lumni Gym. Entries will be accepted in the Intramural -Office located in the Alumni Gym. supporting effort, Union beat the Vermont team 36 to 30; Facing a large Colgate squad, the Dutchwomen were defeated 63 to 25. Cathy Reals and Liz Yager scored 10 points each; Bonnie Sendzicki ptit forth a hUstling defensive effort. Thursday, the girls travel to Albany State. The final home game will be played against Green Mountain at 7:00 on Monday, Feb. 28 in Memorial Fieldhouse. Finishing the season, the Dutchwomen face St\.· Rose away. THE JEWISH STUDENT ORGANIZATION- HILLEL HOSTS A SHABBAT DINNER on Fri., Feb. 25th, at 6 p.m. in the kosher kitchen Speaking will be Vladimir and Nellie Spiegel; \The View From the Soviet Union: Two SovJct Jew~ Speak 1\hPllt their L\pcncncc 1n Russia.\ ·\drnJSSIOO $2 00 - ISO- Hillel · ml·mber, $3.50 - non-tncmher R o~: 1 \.at Jl~ n~ llll\ t b'- m<.~dc Hlllncdmtcly hy calhng 6hX& or t>772.

t! > i I !; Page 16 f!ONCOR'DfflNSIS, Feb . . 23:. 1977 sports Skaters Aim for Top Playoff Berth by DANNY WOJNILOWER The Union College hockey team skated its way to victories last week against Queen's University 8-2, and Division I St. Lawrence 8-6. In winning, the Dutchmen improved their current winning streak to eight games and their overall record to 18-2,..1. Union drew first blood with Kip Churchill scoring his 23rd goal of the year only I: 12 seconds into the opening period. A beautiful pass from Brad Hinterberger allowed Churchill to slip the puck into a virtually open net. The next two goals, which gave the Dutchmen a 3-0 lead, were both power play goals, the second ,one coming with a two- man advantage. The first was tallied by Doug Feasby at 5: 14 and was goal number 20 for him on the season. Chutchiil's second of the afternoon and 24th was ~he third goal which came at 8:05. goal and almost deflected in a shot from the point. Union tallied its final two goals in the third period, the first on a power play by Marl!ball, his 26th of the season. Finally, Dean Willers closed out the scoring at 16:59. On the goal, Pete Crawford gained his fourth assist of the day. Union. outshot their opponent 45- 23. Last night, Union traveled to St. Lawrence -.nd in 1l thri'llet of a game, the Dut(,:hmen :held on and prevailed 8-6. Although one of the weaker te(ims in Division I, the Saints from St. Lawrence had recently extended R.P .1. into overtime before bowing 9-8. They had also defeated Division II power Merrimack twice this season. Within Division II, Coach Harkness' squad has only lost once which gives them the best percentage with just two games remaining.. Army, Bowdoin, Elmira and Merrimack have aU lost twice. The showdown against Merrimack Friday night in Achilles Rink will definitely play a large role in the rankings for the ECAC playoffs. Before long the lead was increased to 5-0 on goals by Hinterberger and Grant Judd. Both goals were assisted by Churchill who unselfishly passed the puck to his lineniates, giving them a chance to get in the · scoring column. Only a late period lapse, when Queen's scored its first goal while shorthanded, prevented the first pedod from being error proof. With Baker in goal once again, Union came out flying, and this resulted in Judd scoring a breakaway goal at 4:19 after a beautiful pass from Jack Rankin. The Dutchmen scored again at 6:49 on a power play when Churchill scored with assists from from Hinterberger and Crawford. Crawf.ird continues to register assists each game and Hinterberger has begun to play outstanding hockey since being reunited with his linemates of last year, Churchill and Judd. Mark Jenkins aims goa/ward Against Queen's University, Union played an excellent first period, building a 5-I lead. Luckily it was enough as the Dutchmen skated through lackluster second and third periods during which much of the crowd either left or sat back in their seats and yawned. For those who came to see a hard-hitting game with a lot of penalties, this was a game to see. In total, 67 minutes were assessed including a five-minute fighting penalty, a ten-minute misconduct and a game disqualification. Even Steve Baker was given a roughing penalty midway in · the third period. The remainder of the game was seemingly only played because a hockey game consists of 60 minutes. Union tallied one goal in the second period while both teams were two men down. Donny Marshall got the goal, his 25th, which gave the Dutchmen a 6-1 lead. The period, which ended with Union ahead 6-2, was highlighted by action during a delayed penalty early in the period. Goalie Baker skated up ice and instead of going to the bench in favor of a sixth forward, he headed directly toward the After the lead was cut to 2-1, Churchill scored ,again, his 26th of the year and then Kevin Kardos scored a pretty short handed goal that gave Union its 4-1 margin after one period. Early in the second period, Crawford raised the Dutchmen's advantage to 5•1 and then after the lead was cut to 5-2, Union scored twice more to seemingly put the game on ice. Dom1y Marshall's' 27th tally of the seaso,n while shorthanded and Mark Haley's deflection of a Rankin slap shot were the goals that seemed to put a nail in St. Lawrence's coffin. The Saints, though were not finished at au: After scoring a late period goal, they went to the locker room behind 7-3 and returned to the ice a fired-up and determined ice hockey team. They put continuous pressure on Baker and scored twice, the second tally coming at 14:38, reducing Union's advantage to 7-5 .. A startled and helpless Union team got the break they needed when a Rankin slapshot slipped by the St. Lawrence defense. and was tipped in by Judd for his l8th goal of the year. This lucky break gave the Dutchmen an 8:.5 · lead and room to breathe. A late goal by St. Lawrence ended the scoring with Union in front 8-6. The game concluded Union's four game .schedule against Division I opponents. The Dutchmen· were Very impressive winning three of tbe four games, losing only to Clarkson. Now the Dutchmen will concentrate. on the ECAC .playoffs, which win be March 5th, . 9th, and 12th. Hopefully, Union will come out on top in the end. --------.----.-----Icemen of the Week.............._--~---- This week's players of the week awards go to Kip Churchill and Brad Hinterberger. Playing on the same line with Grant Judd, who deserves an honorable mention for his three goals and two assists, they combined to make the Union attack even more potent than it has been in the past. Churchill, a sophomore tri- captain from Rexdale, Ontario, deserves this honor for the second consecutive week based on his excellent play-making and goa-l scoring. He scored four goals this past week raising his total to 26 for the year. His goals, which all came in the first period of the games, were responsible for getting the Dutchmen offensive attack off and rolling. Churchill Kip Churchill Brad Hinter berger Trackster of t.he Week This week's trackster of the incredible time of I: 10.7 in the six week is junior co-captain Bob hundred yard dash. This race has Moffatt. On last Saturday the become Moffa.tt's private Stamford resident ran the property- the durable sprinter is D UNION COLLEGE PlJB RESTAURANT ~« c ~CtiENECTADY,NV 12.308 I-10LLOW THE DUTCH HOLLOW PUB presents A NEW FEATURE 4Yl FOOT SUBS • (and larger!) Turkey, Roast Beef; Mh:ed, Anything You Can Think Of Starting at $J9,SO will feed 20 people Having a Party??? Order a Super Sub from the Pub!!! Please Jive 2 days notice. now ranked second in the entire United States in this event, and has .not lost in the past two years. At every invitational meet this season he has gone home with new fieldhouse and meet records (5 meet records, ·:; fieldhouse records). Moffatt, at Syracuse last Saturday, was asked after his record run to anchor the mile relay and responded by bringing his team home in Union Coll~ge, meet, and fieldhouse record- breaking time of 3:19.5. This time qualified the team for the nationals. the second event tbe sprinter has done so in. This weekend brought more evidence of Moffatt's talent and durability. He contributed to wins in two relays (one relay on which he lead off was one second short of the school· record and set new meet and fieldhouse records for RPI),. continued his amazing 600 streak with a win in I: 13. 75, .and then anchored the mile relay team 1 ~n his fourth race of the afternoon;to a dramatic last-second victory over PlattsbUrgh State. He will face Kevin Ptice of Adelphi in the national championships at Princeton on March 4-5, and the experts give the dedicated athelete at least an even chance to walk off the track as national champion in the event. has tallied 49 points thus far which is currently second on the team. Hinterberger, a sophomore who hails from Buffalo, N.Y., had an outstallding week, after being reunited with his Jinemates of last year, when he finished fifth in team scoring. this past week he registered a goal and five assists, symbolic of his unselfish play. The possessor of a deadly slap shot, Brad also displayed the' ability to maneuver in front of the net as his goal and many of his assists were the result of goalmouth play. With his scoring ability beginning to shine through, he will be an important part in Union's drive toward the ECAC championship. Guamd counte~·.· onus. The future Arts departJ rejtectj future It is f. which, divisioi Music The of the involv1 and exami1 currie! the n .presen a re-e With I to .sub the fUI Basi future assum1 growi11 the co distinc from l numbe to· Un; progra that s numbe discip.li that th testruc progra impro increas level < stu deDI We Admin suppor \honin assume college there howevt men tc At p in the IDs. \\ take·~ by thl certain:

t:ourtesy of JET magazine ROOTS: ANOTHER REACTI'ON • t The lihiek ·$tude~t's Alliance Newspaper· ·' (I SEX IN MUSIC IN THE BLACK COMMUNITY 'by NATHEA B. COUSAR They .. spice .. their music with Music plays an important role slightly lewd lyrics and suggestive. in the Black ~ommunity. Young moans and groans. Many of their· people, especially, 11 pend much 0 ( ·recotdirigs are repetitious and· their time listening ·to recorded deal with one theme: sex. music; it is the perfect This is not much of a problem· accompaniment to almost aqy for young people past daily activity, particularly the adolescence: we supposedly can more tedious ones. handle it. But what about Tbere are several categories 6f younger Black people? Childrelt \black\ music: gospel, soul, disco, of· the elementary aild ·secondary jazz, and jazz-rock .. The most school levels ·are too -yoq,ng· and . comlil~rcially well received, . i.e., inexperienced· to understand the the most popular are soul, or distorted view offensive music · rh)rthm and blues, and disco. · .ptesents; they may not Th-e~e are easiest to dance to and understand tha:t it js a distorted ·sing along with; because they do view. ' not require close listening for fu'll . There is an increasing interest appreciation,, one's attention can in the content of television be focused elsewhere. programming. I ·think . that· the M·usic ca:ri ·have · m.:any· ·· eontent of:radio·progtamming is fu:nttiorrs. The possibilities in equally, if not more important . . educating and helping· to· instill The Black community has to be positive attitudes in Black youths made aware of the full are limitless for music makers. implications of the effects of the Some artists _ such as Stevie music our children listen to. Wonder and Earth Wind and According to Jet magazine, Rev. Fire, to name two of the most Jesse Jackson and Operation_· popular - recognize this and PUSH have initiated a series- of contribute meaningfully through national conferences (Ethics in their works. But some, far too the Media) to this end. The many for comfort, choose to organizers of these conferences prostitute th~it; talents. (if in fac,:t ·are to be commended; l·feel that . they can Qe considered talented). '' music makers have a moral , re-sp()nsibilijy' to the' 'people · Who support them. Consumers haw the power to convince them of the necessity of \cleaning up\ their acts .. - · young bl~ck girls, and the sisters who ·lost their privacy, by LEONARD D. LE~ demgation of one\s will to be a citizenship, oi: their lives during Roots, by Alex Haley, ts the man were ,poignant realities 'Which the struggles o:f the sixties. Ws product of a Black man's dream .. the book and television special ironic that the young whites of i : ' : . '; - . Pa1eA to ~ind the origins·o~-his ancestr?<,;;ppl.f;::rayed delicately. But, 1 think . the seven~ies ar~ so unaware of Over. twelve years ago Halt!y. :;!Jfoots· ·has unveiled a new and·: this ·Chapter 'Of· their Ametit:an begari _the ~rduous ~ask. of traei~g ·'much more .grim reality. The· ·; ·'hetit:age.\' : Rdots' 'i ~ot'ripeliing ... ; his family tre~ backto ats rootsm .reality ~bat the pain still hu£!s; thct_·. · ~portni,Yal'~~'it .~a~ f~r¢e,d:~~~M to Mo~her Afnca. The bo?k he frustratmg and . empty des:ue of come ·to · gnps wtth the whys of meticulously develop~d. ts t~e reconciling it all in. or~.e.revengeful black/White relations today (i.e., story of seven generattons of his · moment is still a negotiable the basis of the misunder- family, reconstructed from the alternative. For tlle fact tetnains 's.tattdings of inter-racial time a black Mandingo youth was ·that America has done little to relations). Will they accept the ~J>d~cted· .. from . Gam~ia, . West propitiate the hon:ible effects of. cha.lle~ges·_ of ~uest1on~lig the Afnca · m 1767,. sbtpped t() slavery's injustice. · · pte)Ud1ces · ·a~d btases whtch . were Annapolis, Maryland, and sold to .. ' On the. one hanci, America has passed down· to· them, will they be a_Vi!~nia plantation o~ner in the offered token sestures of quasi- the new _··P,ionee·rs. ~n .fosteri~~ .. tradttlon of the Amertcan slave freedoms; \equal'' opportunities · more equitable relations, or wdl trade. ' and Horatio Alger mytbs, while ROCJts become a ditn memory of 1 ::!: -~,· ··.· ::: .'~ .. t.QotfFOll~TUOpG.jjT:.' :· . .- .... :. ::·.~· ;~ (,. No leader regardl~ss of importance mu&t consider himself \. above the will of the people. . Before reaching out toward international prestige, he must look within his own jand, direct himself to restoring the .~dignity of all citizens, filling their eyes on human things. . Therein lies the spirit of a. conscious, a sovereign nation. '- Frantz Fanon ! ·~.- • • •• 1,,,;' T~e.book, and su?sequently the ·methotlic~lly rethreading the· an ABC Novel for Television? television presentation of Roots scarlet letter of slavery on the ~:-lttt;lt~i~C:I:lt:lit:l!lt:J•rtlltElit~lttt:i~'l:..t:tr'lt~It::l!lttllttli'fJJi[t:tJ[tr\:rif\lit~if~JtClirEllt~ltlfitft.U:'I!Jr~XrE'lltBltf:ll\~rJ~nitr:ltti!if:l!it~tElli:Elr-Ji~rJI:•itlt'I!it~it:::IFflltElit~'iiEtJ~rj have had .~ tremendous effect on other hand. Although it destroyed ~:::~:=~: the hearts, minds~ and souls. of tlie .legislative legitimacy . of @1 not only black ·peopl~, but wht~es .slavery, the Emandpation -~.:t:·.=l:' .. =~:·.:: ___ :,..,=r .. ·.i·x:~: .. ;.·::.·.=~.:.:~.:~: . as well, It has tenufided many Proclamation did nothing to '~.:' America~s. ~f th~ . injustice, the , compensate the Black. man f<lf the dehumamzatiOn; and the brutal losses he sustained in the .slave mt~ inequality that· nourished the trade (we still haven\t got our 40' ~@l slave trade and supported a socio- acres and a mule). ~:·~-~.r:~ ... \.~·:·. , economic srstem !'hos~ benefits However, eliUincipati()n created ;.,;. many Amencans sttH en!oy today; a new reasoning.and legitimacy to ~W~ But, wh~t ~ea~¥, wtll be the deny the Black man. the access to !11 effect of th_ as_ sagndJ.c_. ant work?. It_ the means of_. nroduction and the : ~~~~i d bt dl .. ll r ~-==m un .ou ·. e ·~. . -~~ · r_ecetve means of subsisting. without !lil:::l unparallel~d bte~ry ~cclatm; but relying on the 11 1nassa:\ who for ;§:=tl what of tts soc1al. tmportan~? . years enjoyed the fruits .,r sclavery ~11Th Roots represented a part of thas and we.nt on furtber to enjcy the §t!i counti'y's history that was fruits of Reconstruction. This is Wij !U~stantial~y cen.SC!Ired ,, from . ~he an essential point whicb was §~i Btccntenmal Manutes. Amenca. brought out ill Boots. The ~~ h~s recently celebra~ed. _th~. 200th particular sequences that ha.t Burl ~$! b1rth_ day_ of a . cann_ t, b_ a_ ltstac ba_ by_· Ives .portraying. tb.e .Southern :::M~ --~ b bl k :;;-;;:1:-. who .was· nurtur~ on t e ac senator with the master plar1. of: g.:·=, breast of slavery; _a ce.lebtati_on keepin o .. darkie\' on the :::::::~ dh ~ ::::l~= that portraye . . . er . p1onee~mg plantation as cheap labor, were :*:* ===:u~:; :f!f~1 =~--exis~~~f :~~: r.= i:._!';:f:.·t.~.l:.r.::~.1:\:t,r: .. ~.i.i,: but . also on . native Americ:an White America did not get the , ; (_Indian) genocade. Has Amenca message _from the slave revolts, ~=~~ to·rgotten such mem~rable· the Harlem Renaissance, or from f.::: ... ~.~~-~:~=·.;·:.~:~ .. :=,,~:. childhood days? The rapiDg of the many dedicated br()thers and u:-., FOOD FOR THOUGHT ••we educated Negroes are talking .s lot about a racial ., renaissance. And I wonder how we're going to get it. On one side we·re up against the wodd's arrogance - a mighty cold hard white stone thing. On the other the great sweating army - our race. It's the common people, you know, who furnish the bone and sinew and salt of any rac:e or nation. In the modern race of -life we're merely beginners. If this renaissance is going to be more than a sporadic scabby thing, we'll have to get down to our racial roots to create it ... Getting down to our native roots and building up from our people is .•. culture.\ Claude McKay 1929 The Harl.em Renaissance · Remembered Man needs to learn bow insignificant he really is in the total scheme of things. If he realized this, he would stop grasping for power. If every man on the· face of the earth committed suicide, it would not affect the sun, the moon, Gr the stars. They would still have the same function. But, if the slin committed suicide by crashing into the earth, all men would die. A man needs to learn the insignificance of the things he treasures. Man values money. Yet one man, a doctor, devotes his life· to discovering a cure for polio. Perhaps he realizes $1 00,000 for his discovery. Another man hits a golf ball for two days and realizes $200,000 for his effort. Money is no measure of the worth of a man. -- ~ . - Dick . Gregocy_ -from The Shadow That Seares Me <. •.

., i ' ' ~ . I l I • l .·' . -~ .. -- . The Black Student's Alliance Newspaper PERSPECTIVE · Fekuary 13, 1977 courtesy of JET magazine ROOTS: ANOTHER REACTIUN young black girls, and the by LEONARD D. LEE derogation of one's will to be a Roots, by Alex Haley, is the man were poignant realities which product of a Black man's dream the book and television special to find the origins of his ancestry .. portrayed delicately. But, I think Over twelve years ago Haley ·Roots has unveiled a new and began the arduous task of tracing much more grim reality. The his family tree back to its roots in reality that the pain still hurts; the Mother Africa. The book he frustrating and empty desire of meticulously developed is the reconciling it all in one revengeful story of seven generations of his moment is still a negotiable family, reconstructed from the alternative. For the fact remains time a black Mandingo youth was that America has done little to abducted from Gambia, West propitiate the horrible effects of Africa in 1767, shipped to slavery's injustice. Annapolis, Maryland, and sold to On the one hand, America has a Virginia plantation owner in the offered token gestures of quasi- tradition of the American slave freedoms, \equal\ opportunities trade. and Horatio Alger myths, while The book, and subsequently the methodically rethreading the television presentation of Roots scarlet letter of slavery on the have had a tremendous effect on other hand. Although it destroyed the hearts, minds; and souls of the legislative legitimacy of not only black people, but whites slavery, the Emancipation as well. It has reminded many Proclamation did nothing to Americans of the injustice, the compensate the Black man for the dehumanization, and the brutal losses he sustained in the slave inequality that nourished the trade (we still haven't got our 40' slave trade and supported a socio- acres and a mule). economic system whose benefits However, emancipation created many Americans still enjoy today. a new reasoning and legitimacy to But, what reaHy will be the deny the Black man the access to effect of this significant work? It the means of production and the undoubtedly will receive means of subsisting without unparalleled literary acclaim; but relying on the ••massa\ who for what of its social importance? years enjoyed the fruits of slavery Roots represented a part of this · and went on further to enjoy the country's history that was fruits of Reconstruction. This is substantially censored from the an essential point which was \Bicentennial Minutes.\ America brought out in Roots. The has recently celebrated the 200th particular sequences that had Burl birthday of a cannibalistic baby lves portraying the Southern who was nurtured on the black senator with the master plan of breast of slavery; a celebration keeping .. darkie\ on the that portrayed her pioneering plantation as cheap labor, were forefathers who not ctnly founded indicative of the plight and this nation on the exploitation relative existence of newly freed and degradation of black people, slaves. but also on native American White America did not get the (Indian) genocide. Has America message from the slave revolts, forgotten such memorable the Harlem Renaissance, or from childhood days? The raping of the many dedicated brothers and ~~l1 ~:-:~::=::: ··•·•·•·•··· ~~;l~~~~ SEX IN MUSIC IN THE BLACK COMMUNITY by NATHEA B. COUSAR Music plays an important role in the Black community. Young people, especially, spend much of their time listening to recorded music; it is the perfect accompaniment to almost a~y daily activity, particularly the more tedious ones. There are several categories of .. black\ music: gospel, soul, disco, jazz, and jazz-rock. The most commercially well received, i.e., the most popular are soul, or rhythm and blues, and disco. These are easiest to dance to and sing along with; because they do not require close listening for full appreciation, one's attention can be focused elsewhere. Musi,c can have many functions. The possibilities in educating and helping to instill positive attitudes in Black youths are limitless for music makers. Some artists - such as Stevie Wonder and Earth Wind and Fire, to name two of the most popular - recognize this and contribute meaningfully through their works. But some, far too many for comfort, choose to prostitute their talents (if in fact they can be considered talented). They \spice\ their music with slightly lewd lyrics and suggestive moans and groans. Many of their recordings are repetitious and deal with one theme: sex. This is not much of a problem for young people past adolescence: we supposedly can handle it. But what about younger Black people? Children of the elementary and secondary school levels are too ymmg and inexperienced to understand the distor-ted view offensive music presents; they may not understand that it is a distorted view. There is an increasing interest in the content of television programming. 1 think that the content af radio programming is equally, if not more important. The Black community has to be made aware of the full implications of the effects of the music our children listen to. According to Jet magazine, Rev. Jesse Jackson and Operation PUSH have initiated a series of national conferences (Ethics in the Media) to this end. The organizers of these conferences are to be commended. I feel that music makers have a moral responsibility to the people who support them. Consumers have the power to convince them of the necessity of \cleaning up\ their acts. sisters who lost their privacy, citizenship, or their lives during the struggles of the sixties. It's ironic that the young whites of the seventies are so unaware of this chapter of their American herit'age. Roots' compelling portrayal of it has forced them to come to grips with the why's of black/white relations today (i.e., the basis of the misunder- s.tandings of inter-racial relations). Will they accept the challenges of questioning the prejudices and biases which were passed down to them, will they be the new pioneers in fostering more equitable relations, or will Roots become a dim memory of an ABC Novel for Television? ~ L ~ ' L ~ FOOD FOR THOUGHT: L L ~ No leader regardless of importance must consider himself ~ above the will of the people. ~ ~ Before reaching out toward international prestige, he must Z look within his own Jand, direct himself to restoring the z dignity of all citizens, filling their eyes on human things. ~, Therein lies the spirit of a conscious, a sovereign nation. ~ z Frantz F anon (... jr'l(\\Xrltlttttlrlf\lti~rirlrlf'lritJ.( jf\l('ltlrlrXr'lf\'L(\lt1tlflrlc-Xt\\JhtiC'irlC\Jtltll~ t.. FOOD FOR THOUGHT ··we educated Negroes are talking a lot about a racial renaissance. And I wonder how we're going to get it. On one side we're up against the world's \ arrogance -- a mighty cold hard white stone thing. On the other the great sweating army - our 1 race. It's the common people, you \ know, who furnish the bone and sinew and salt of any race or nation. In the modem race of life we're merely beginners. If this renaissance is going to be more than a sporadic scabby thing, we'll have to get down to our racial roots to create it ... Getting down to our native roots and building up from our people is ... culture.\ Claude McKay 1929 The Harlem Renaissance Remembered Man needs to learn how insignificant he really is in the total scheme of things. If he realized this, he would stop grasping for power. If every man on the· face of the earth committed suicide, it would not affect the sun, the moon, or the stars. They would still have the same function. But, if the sun committed suicide by crashing into the earth, all men would die. A man needs to learn the insignificance of the things he treasures. Man values money. Yet one man, a doctor, devotes his life to discovering a cure for polio. Perhaps he realizes $100,000 for his discovery. Another man hits a golf ball for two days and realizes $200,000 for his effort. Money is no measure of the worth of a man. Dick Gregory -from The Shadow That Scares Me \ .

· .PERSPECTIVE February 23, 1977 Paae B Perspective WHO WE ARE Co-Editor ............................................ Abdoulai Bamba Leonard D. Lee Charles H. Weekes Credits ................................................ Nathea B. Cousar Richardo Brown Phyllis A. James Jet, The Harlem Renaissance Remembered Recipes for a ~mall Planet, The Shadow That Scares Me, Black Vmces Abdoulai Bamba & Charles Weekes are on assignment. EDITOR'S NOTES ... The purpose and effectiveness of education and the role it plays in our society has come under much debate and scrutiny.· But generally, it is to prepare our young people to live in and . serve the society, while transmitting the basic knowledge, . skills, values, and attitudes of that society. Educational ' institutions, particularly colleges and universities, provide an essential social forum for the perpetuation of the existing order. Secondary schools as well as colleges impose social norms and values that set standards of behavior for its participants. Such behavioral norms and values do not always comply with certain individual and group volitions. In fact, su~h conditions can be totally alienating to those who have not internalized them from birth. It is this latter proposition that keeps some Blacks in a relative state of cognitive dissonance (limbo) when it comes to the educational experience. Educational institutions are powerful mechanisms of socialization. They are a product of a moralistic society that seeks to moralize everyone and everything. My contention here is by no means a denunciation of moralistic tendencies, on the contrary, ·my particular concern is about Black youths and their struggle to maintain a: ·. sense of identity while encountering this socialization process. Black youths, while attending educational institutions are taught what to value, what to appreciate, what to honor, and what to respee.t. In effect, how to live and what to love. lti Stands to reason then, that whomever . controls these! institutions controls the development of our youth. Blacks i111 secondary schools and colleges alike are. subjected to social values some of which are not common to our own partie,ular · social structure. Mislead by sleight-of-hand techniques, Blacki youths are forced to adapt a social mentality or conscienc~ that is particular to the American middle-class norm, yet alien to their own exp~riences.' This cpuntry is composed of a heterogenous mixture of · cultures and peoples. It is crucial then, that educational institutions represent not only the status quo {which is usually. · the middle and upper classes, in this case predominately \\ )Vhite), but should also recognize the multiplicity of «status quos\ that exist in our society and the struggle of each to achieve a relative level of importance and acceptance. To· quote Mary Carolyn Davies's 1916 poem \College\: Fi!'st I became A copy of a book. Then. I became A copy of a man Who was also A copy of a book. Now I would not know What I am Except that I have On my wall A fi·amed paper Which expl~ins it fully. Leonard D. Lee Co-editor ' This space reserved for your article,: Submit your type· written. articl·es soon Enriched Flavor Process: Not just another cigarette, Is a wh.ole new frontier in Smoking Enjoyment* Kings: 0.00 nig. \tar\ OJ)O mg. Qicotine tOO's: 0.00 mg. \tar\ 0.00 mg. nicotine 100%: Plutonium per cigarette - .. by U.G.G. Method Warning: The Surgeon General f.las -Determined that Cigaring Smokette is Catastr9phi.c to your .Health! ~ r·-------------------~----------------~jRtJEt-i!:·-~---------------------~-----~---- .. I I .. J I I l I I I I I I I I I I I I I I •. Sobseripiions t8 PersJ)eedve For persons wishing Pe-rspective mailed to their hon1.e . or ,pJac• of busiuess. :Mail this cUpphig to· Perspective Union ·College· Schenectady, N.Y. 12308 Subscriber: N,AME ............... ___________ ......__._.__ ___ _ ADDRESS ______ ____,__ _____ _ City·State··Zip_. ______ _ I I ! OWSEPifiORTlm . I~~D------·•·•-••••~~~t•••••-••-~·-·- ... .-- .... tli!' .. ______ _._~-··•••••••••••••••-.II!I••~•·•••••D·--~~~~--•-•• 81 The en Muslim ~ movell)en1 coincided rise of t move~n· end of th The (particula Black Pal most iru altemativ Luther ideology Mal cOl ·of the me the blad strategy definite s Mal co charisma· unique a to revel life, a se out of discrimifl murde·r, dedicate< the Blacl the poin political oppressic Malco of many injustice, against class cit spoke 01 \givens\ today;; X was a Brows shops is jazz-roci capital d known this ID\1: digging section was hap some vil Amo11 was a I Jamal Festival SPACE Accom)l bassist drummt out the \pure\ extend4 \Bogata definite contem] Jamal; ances <l for this A m found ( howeve later re< the pri< To Hw 197$). ~ optimis of copi by Rev Les • natural stron: renderi \Butter Butterf We E almost Who Me Car people fightinJ to p()t~ What,. McCa1 lesson!~ \Well additi( plays Surviv with I the all McC veterai outlo<l To qu B., .. , Survi'

~ •· . PERSPECTIVE February. 23~ 1!}77 CULTURAL CORNER PqeC Black History ·nm q ~ ~~ BOOK STAND: ~ THE ORPHEUS AWARD ~ ~ ffi An application I recently filled grains, seeds and dairy products ~-- T~e Orpheus Award is given to The emergence of the Black Muslim (the Nation of lslarn) . movelt)ent, and Malcolm X coincided with the phenomenal rise of the Negro civil rights move~J;J.t from l95S to about the end of the si~ties. \I don't think the burden to if~~ out included the instruction: to get complete, more usable, tfj outstanding musical artists for defend any position ·should ~i=i name the most ~mportant books high protein). gives timely ~ their contributions to the realm of ever be. ,put upon t. he black ~~~~-::you have read m the 13;st three commentary on the importance of ~~ the fine arts . man because it is the white ::;. :years. In response, I mcluded more \ecological eating,\ and ~m:~ Creativity and originality ·are man' collectively who has ~®;~what may have seemed a strange even gives suggestions for ~~:f@ only two attributes an artist must shown that he is hostile ~@;%selection, a cookbook. However, growing your own herbs and )1~~~\ have; she or he must also be toward integration and 1:m1: Ellen Buchman Ewald's Recipes vegetables. \W.~~l versatile in writing, producing, toward intermamage and· ~~~;~~~:l for a Small Planet i~ 1;1ot jus~ a In this age of technology, what \i~~ arranging, and/or playing. This The ijlack MusHms (particulal!lY Malcolm X} ~nd the Black Panther Party provided the most influential and forceful alternatives to Rev. Martin Luther King Jr.'s nonviolent ideology of this perio<l, toward these other strides ::~~:~~: c o o k book b u t a m lid we eat has become increasingly il~ edition, the Orpheus Award goes toward oneness. So as a ~l~~l~l~~l revolutionary. more crucial. Gone are th.e days ~1M to an artist who is well acquainted black -man and especially as a f~~~l~ As: a coo~bl,)ok, Rec:lp~s could when we can assume that the t~@ with such standards of excellence. black American, any stand ~~lM~l! sta!Id on 1ts own ments. The foods we buy fr9m .grocery stores @:*. The artist; STEVIE WONDER, that 1 formerly took', 1 don't ~~l~l@: recipes run the gamut from are good for us; meats (especially ~~f.i: the song: AS*, from \Songs In think that I would have to ~1l~l~ll! breakfast. to dinner ..:,_ including pork) are suspected of being ~f.% The· Key Of Life.\ defend it because it's stili a ~llll~i~! fl:mt~stic desserts. There is a ~a.rcinog~nic; dange~ous dyes are ~®1 As around the sun the earth reaction to the society and :~~:j:~j~: section Qn how to bake mouth mjected mto our frUits, vegetables m!::: knows she's revolving I And the it's a reaction that ' was lt~@! watering ~ and surpt:isingly easy and me~ts to make the~ more jl~$\ rosebuds know to bloom in early produced by the society and :I t1lM -~ yeast: breads. Appendices attractive; degermmated, ~~~l~l~!~ May 1 Just as hate knows love's think that it is the society iM ·~elude cooking instructions with co~verted . bleached grains .a~d 1\\\~I\1\ the cure 1 You can rest your mind that prod.uced ·this that j:~~lm timetables for cooking beans and refmed sugars have no nutnt1ve ~~lll:l% assure 1 That 1.'11 be loving you should be attacked not the H~lR grains; freezing tips;· suggestions value; and govt. standards for ~~l!llll always. MalcOlm w<ls undoubtedly one -of the most effective ex,ponents of the black nationalist strategy; a strategy that gave America a definite shot in the arm. Malcolm was a pr.olific, charismatic speaker who offered a unique and yet vital component to revolutionary strategies. His life, a Set ·Of circumstances born out of a childhood rage of discrimination, injustice · and. murde'r, conceived a man dedicated to his contribution to the Black strUggle, yet specific to the point, .establishing a rational political logic of deali.._g with oppression and inhumanity. reaction tbat develops .among~~~~~ f~r adding more protei~ to your acceptable foods are dubious. a~~ . the people who are the ~lt~ll! diet, and more. There Is also a It's really no wonder that this is ~~=~l~~i As now cant reve~l the ~yste~ victims -of that negative llll~l~l~ ,glossary of possibly unfamiliar a nation . of overweight people. l~*~ll\i of tomorrow I But m passmg wtll society.'' (The j~~M~ foods. ·Processed foods from sugared lll@~j ~row ol~er every day l Just as all \\'\ I dd' · h · b k • · :;:::;~-:: IS born IS new / Do know what I Autobiography of Malcolm l~ll*~j~ n a · 1tion to s armg many rea fast c~reals to frozen dmners ~:~:-:·:: . t I Th I'll b 1 . X.) t~~~l~ delectable.recipes,allofwhich use which Americans ~lllil~l~ say lS rue at e ovmg Restpeacefully Brother· i?lM natural whole foods, i.e., no omnivorou-sly consume, lm! you always. M 1¥~~1~ meats, synthetic chemical contribute to the accumulation of :M~~~ Until the rainbow burns the stars alco lm .. ;:::-.-... . · ···~~·>·· · ~~~==~=~ preservatives, or processed foods, fatty tissues while they poison the ~M( out in the sky I Until the ocean Malcolm's philosophy was one of many voices crying out against injustice, against inequality, against oppression and second- class citizenship for Bla(ks. He spoke out against .these pillars of \givens\ in American society today; America '1'eplied: Malcolm X was assassinated Feb. 24, 1965. 1ft~~ Ms. Ewald- thoroughly outlines digestive system. Recipes for a 1\, covers every mountain high I lf®l the concept of protein Small Planet provides a delicious, fi:1 Until thedolphinflies and parrots ~i~~ complimentarily (combining the healthful alternative. ~~live at sea 1 lJntll we dream of life f..iJ. proper porportions Qf legutnes, NATHEA B. COUSAR m.:~ and life becomes a dream. .. WEAtHER REPQRT· Browsing through local record shops is not always rewarding for jazz-rock/jazz . enthusiasts~ · The capital district is not exactly well- . known for its appreciation of this m11sic form. However, after digging deeply into the $2,99 section of one establishment, I was happily able to come up with some vintage albums. Among the gems I unearthed was a live recording of Ahmad Jamal at the Montreux Jazz Festival (OUTER'fiMEINNER- SPACE Impulse/ ABC 1972). Accompanying the pianist are bassist Jarnil Suliemann with drummer Frank GaQ.t roundiQ.g out the trio. For those who enjoy \pure\ jazz,·- this ·album· of extended performan~es of \Bogata\ and \Extensions'' is a. definite treat. I had enjoyed more contemporary studio works by Jamal; these concert perform- ances only increased. my respect for this talented ·artist. · . .. But lt becomes aunost a pleasure. when we hear Les talk and sing about it. ·Plus he gives us the added bonus of all thl,)se feeling songs.\ Life is definitely a struggle, but good music like Les McCann's can make things seem a lot bri8h~er. NATHEA B. COUS.AR A more recent .reeotding · 'i found (also in the $2.99 section, however, someone at the store later realized its value and raised the price) is Les McCann's: \Got To Hustle To Survive\ (Atlantic 1975). The title tune is an upbeat\ optimistic statement on the facts of coping with ·-life today, written by Rev. B. and McCann. Les McCann has an unforced natural quality to \lis voice. ·His strong/ gentle em·otion.al · renderings in the nostalgic ADDITiONAL NOTE This is an: example of one of the delicious dessert recipes in Ms. Ewald's Recipes for a Small Planet~ Enjoy! BREAD PUDDING WITH LEMON SAUCE 8 portions · ·t portion=approx. 8 grams of usable protein 18% to 22% of average daily protein need Make this pudding with whole wheat bread or whole protein bread that has dried out a little. * 2 cups dry whole wheat bread crumbs * '4 cups hot milk 1/2 to 2/3 cup honey 1 tbsp butter 1/2 tsp salt * 4 eggs, slightly beaten 1 tsp vanilla ( 1/2 cup raisins - optional) ( 1) Pour the hot milk over the ~read cubes; while they soak, stir m the honey; butter, vanilla, and s;Ut (and raisins). . • ..(2) When the:, mixture . has cooled sligbtly, beat in the. eggs. (3) Pour into an oiled l ~-quart baking dish. Place in a P_ an of hot water and bake at 3.50° F for about 1 hour until firm. (4) Serve warm with lemon sauce: . -l tbsp cornstarch · da-sh salt· dash nutmeg 1 cup boiling water l/4 to l/3 cup honey l-Y2 tbsp lemon juice 2 tbsp butter '( l). Co.ntbine tlle corn!)tarch, salt. and nutmeg in a small saucepan; stir in · the hot water . gradually and cook over low heat until thick -and clear. . (2) Blend in the .honey, lemon . \Buttetflies{Eveeytitne I See a Butterfly\ aitd the · wistftll \Will We Evet Find · Our Fathers'' almost :bring one' to . tears. \Says Who - Says· What\ is is Mccann's .refreshing·· response to people who say \We've lost our fighting spirit/This country's gone to p()t\ (from \Says Who ~ Says What\ L. McCa:nn and R.ev, B.). Mccann pokes gentle fun· at the lessons his parents taught hi.m in \Well Cuss My Daddy.\ In addition to: singing, Les McCann plays keyboards in \Hustle To Survive.\ He also collaborated with Rev. B. to compose five -of the album's nine cuts. Dear Julian Bond: I ':\ant to_ h~IP: the Center in its defen~e of the five young black men in Dawson, Geor~a, and to support your other work on behalf of-the poot. Enclosed is my tax- . deductible conbibution of: · · McCann is · a versatile jazz · vetl;!ran With an optimistic outlook that can be contagious. To quote the liner notes of Rev. B., \We all have to Hustle to Survive in these difficult days. 0$15 Cl$35 0$20 0$50 0$25 0$100' 0$30 [)$..._ ------ Mr~rnAMsAW~s·------------------------~--------------- Ad~ess --------~----------------------~----------- City _____ ......_ ____ State Zip----- Please make checks payable to the Southern Poverty law Center. All donations are tax deductible. The Cente~ is a nonpr?tit organization if111olved in numerous cases to defend the rights of the poor •. Enough donattons averagmg,$25 or more wtU ensure that none of our efforts fail for lack of funding. Did you know that true love asks for nothing 1 Her acceptance is the way we pay 1 Did you know that life has given love a guarantee I To last through forever and another day. Just as time knew to move on since the beginning 1 And the seasons know exactly when to change. I Just as kindness knows no shame I Know through all your joy and pain I That I'll be loving you always. As today I know I'm living but tomorrow I Could make me the past but that I mustn't fear 1 For rn know deep in my mind I The love of me I've left behind 1 Cause I'll be loving you· always. Until the day is night and night becomes the day 1 Until the trees and sea just up and fly away I Until the day that 8x8x8 is 4 1 Until the day that is the day that are no more I Did you know you're loved by somebody? f Until the day the earth starts turning right to left 1 Until the earth just for the sun denies itself I I'll be loving you forever 1 Until dear Mother · Nature says her work is through 1 Until the day that you are me and I ~Ul you 1 Until the rainbow bums 'the stars · out- in the sky I Until the ocean covers every moun~in :high f Always. : ' We all know sometiines:•lite's ·hates and troubles 1 q...-. make you wi$h. , you were ftiom in another time and space ilisut Y9U can bet your lif~ times ~nat and twice its double I That ~ knew .exactly where he wanttj you to. be placed I So make site when you .say you're ~ it but it of it l You re notbelpmg to ®Re this earth a place someti. called Hell I Change your wies· into truths and then change· lf!a,t truth into love 1 And m~ our chi~dren's gran-dchild~~ /And thetr great-great gra.hildren will tell I That I'll be 1\~ng you always. ·'~l. • ;.·~?.l STEVIE. WONnjl· @1975, 1976 Jobete .ic Co. Inc. & Black Bull Mu~: :fnc. ...... ~~~/ ·'~ WHATS HAPPENING:. Feb. 12 ••• NAACP FoUilded Feb. lo4 ••• ValentineSs Day Feb. ll •.• Malcolm X Assass- inated 1965 ..

PERSPECTIVE February 23, 1977 Poetry Corner THE SCARLET WOMAN Once I was good like the Virgin Mar.y and the Minister's wife. My father worked for Mr. Pullman and white people's tips; but he died two days after his insurance expired. yo11 tried to creep back into the warm cocoon of my friendship by singing the blues about how your whole world was falling apart I had nothing, so I had to go to work. All the stock I had was a white girl's education and a face that enchanted the men of both races. Starvation,danced with me. So when Big Lizzie, who kept a house for white men, came to me with tales of fortune that I could reap from the sale of my virtue I bowed my head to Vice. Now I can drink more gin than any man for miles around. Gin is better than all the water in Lethe. Fenton Johnson (1888-1958) maybe you noticed how i was trying not to lend an ear or a soft shoulder ···················\' maybe you noticed how i kept trying to change the subject because you kept singing until i had almost broken down and let you back m. Natltea B. Cousar why does Love send ~o many false agents ahead of the real thing IS it to sway me from my true desire of a strong yet gentle Black Knight •••.••..••••••..•• ,~ is it so that i'll be hurt by Love's imposters MARITIME (A Narrative) by PHYLLIS JAMES The countryside was beautiful under the firey haze of the setting sun. The greens and browns are aglow. Each day I'd sit under this same old oak arid watch the dawn of evening. I enjoyed the summer days by the sea-shore, and the countryside set me in the right frame of mind. I've always been a wonderer wandering from countryside to countryside in search of myself. I also loved the seas. Blue and eternal. Vast and unknowing. Coming to the seashore enables me to free my inner thoughts about life. How is it that now that I've been searching for months, nothing has given to my great awakening. I decided to take a boat out to sea for as long as I felt was needed. I packed some provisions and set out. My journal goes along with me everywhere so I can record my awakening (whenever and wherever it may come). My mind is usually ultra- sensitive, so I left all drugs behind. This would be my final journey before returning home forever. Sailors look at the sea as their life-line and I can understand why it's so vast and eternal ~ immortal. Looking around. you find yourself surrounded by clear clean aquamarine water; I prefer to sail in blue waters, because they go out as far as they can, then become the sky. I lived much to myself. Of course I had a family who loved me but I preferred to leave them and search on my own. I began two years ago after I lost my parents in a mortally destructive accident. I've suffered their loss greatly. Though I was quite an adult at the time of their death, it was a very difficult time in my life. People showed concern for me, wondenng what I was going to do with myself. \I don't know,\ I'd an~wer. \I guess I'll have to find the nght thmg.\ I hat'~ all I would -.a~. I hen standmg there staring nil mto nowhere \\oondenng about \\-hat I ~au.l and ho\\o I wa~ gomg to go ahout tmdmg. I depart v.1thout lurther que:-t10mng. Now, here I am alone in a boat made for sailing outward into the blue waters. I think of a lot of things: remembering my mother sitting in her favorite chair watching the house, while watching the world from the window. She loved aquamarine. I believe her whole wardrobe was of that color. I see her now - standing this time, with her arms outstretched, beckoning me to take solace in her warm tender arms. Oh,how I do miss mother. I also remember my family - my father and brothers seeing to my r:nother's and my happiness and safety. But I'm alone now. As I fight with myself to continue my search or head back home, l transcend awareness. \It's time for a swim,\ I say aloud to myself. I tear my clothes from my body -- freeing myself. I stand naked between the watchful eyes of the sea and the sky. I look at myself in fulfillment and pleasure, adoring my sepia color. The evenness of how it has ·covered me completely, protecting me from sun radiation. The sun is out and I enjoy it. I do not anchor the boat. I go to the bow and step up looking out and over. I see the same in front as I do when I look behind and around me. I step down and go port-side. The view seems better from here. I push myself over and swim ... With every stroke I feel myself getting closer, so close that I attempt to grasp - realizing my determination has overshone my reality, I envision myself coming nearer and nearer. I stop to wade, finding myself encircled within this blue silkiness my boat is nowhere in sight. Has it been taken away with a wave and left me, or have I swam too far out. No time to think. I must continue. Just as I go on my way, the water lives up to its unpredictable character by tossing me about. The sea becomes grey and ugly - cerninding me of the scavengers I th()ught were lclt behind at shore. I forget all the things that I've heafd about the sea and its ;u~ccptibleness to change. I relax and let the rough-grey- ugly water take me. is it so that i'll waste my love on some undeserving intruder who impersonates my Black Knight I need your warmth to enfald me to hold me in rapturous contentment to carry me away on a rainbow To a million utopias When I drink from yoar loving cup I am delirious As from a magical drug which blankets me from within Your love. Your mystical magical love. why does Love send these imitators of Love is it to make me prove my worthiness of a Black Knight is it to make me stronger is it to show my weaknesses is it to prepare me to recognize and receive my Black Knight it doesn't really matter 'cause i'm ready -NBC - Nathea B. Cousar HER STORY \) They gave me the wrong name, in the first place. ., -, They named me Grace and waited for a light and agile ~ ') 1 dancer. 1 , But some trick of the genes mixed me up ~ And instead I turned out big and black and burly. 1 I) ~ In the second place, I fashioned the wrong dreams. ~ I wanted to dress like Juliet and act ~ Before applauding audiences on Broadway. ~ I learned more about Shakespeare than he knew about , himself. But of course, all that was impossible. \Talent yes,\ they would tell me, ., \But an actress has to look the part.\ ~ So I ended up waitin' on tables in Harlem ., And hearing uncouth men yell at me: ') \Hey momma, you can cancel that hamburger .., And come on up to 102.\ ') In the third place, I tried the wrong solution. ') , The stuff I drank made me deathly sick And someone called a doctor. Next time I'll try a gun. Naomi Long Madgett ( 1923 - ) Dl Raise th<: hockey in campus the are you wil tollowin1 announcem By going and leavin College wo commitmen education f, sports. Su embark U would expl academic s the school' restriction:;; would soor kinds of such as P' schedul.: recruiting, athletes o to Union, athletic sci for an air in public ' It is no the messa are at on level. Wb scholar v permit a 1 assorted upon hi Having goes rust the newl nearest a Thus, Chicken- upon communi problem baste to unspeak~ the NE: simply 1 facts. N4 bothere<i relevant bearing This th very su found heralde< going I based o The t compile intervi1 coaches athletic assista Ad miss associa: the vi resourc FAC cause 1 no ext (includ NCAP basket I extend .lfi~:~ stUUI late, thett th€', tfiatt

PERSPECTIVE February 23, 1977 Poetry Corner THE SCARLET WOMAN Once l was good like the Vi~gin Mar.y and the Minister~s Wife. My father worked for Mr. Pullman and white .people's tips; but he di~d two· days after his insurance expired. you tried to creep back into the warm cocoon of my friendship by singing the blues about how · your whole world was falling apart . maybe you noticecl 1 had nothing, so I had to go to work All the stock I had was a white girl's education and a face ·that enchanted t'he men of both ·races. Starvatioq.,dance.d with me. So when Big Lizzie, who kept a house for white men, came to me with tales of fortune that I could reap from the sale of my virtue l bowed my bead to Vice, ' Now I can drink more gin than any man for miles around. Gi,n is better than all the water in Lethe. Fen,ton Jqhnson (1888-1958) how i was trying not to lend an ear or a soft shoulder o o • o o o eo e-v o o o e eo o co •• maybe you noticed how i kept trying to cbange the subject because you kept singing until i had almost broken down and let you back in. - Natbea B. Cousar !, ; why· does: Lo-ve s~nd so many false agents ahead of the real thing is it to sway me from my true desire .: pf a strong yet gentle·,·· ; ·; ... , Black ·Knight ·- · ,,, .. ·: .• 0 ° t 0 t t t t 0 • 0 0 • 0 0 .• 0 4 t · is it so that i'll be h1:1rt by Love's imposters MARITIME (A Narrative) Now, here I am alone in a boat by PHYLLIS JAMES made for sailing outward into the The countryside was beautiful blue waters. I think of a lot of under the firey haze of the setting things: remembering my mother sun. The. greens ~nd br<;>.wns .are sittiQ.g in her . favorit~ chair aglow_ Each -day l'd.sit under .this watching the hou·~e, while · · same 8t(i 'oa.kand \Ya#h the dawn ' .watqhing .the . world !rom the of eveniag. I enjoyed the summer window. She loved aquamarine. I days by the sea-shore, and the believe her whole wardrobe was countryside set me in ·the right of that color. I see her now ~ frame of mind. standing this time, with her arms I've always been a wonderer outstretched, beckoning me to wandering from countryside to take solace in her warm tender countryside in search of myself. I arms. Oh,how I do miss mother. also loved the seas. Blue and I also remember my family - eternal. Vast and unknowing. my father and brothers seeing to Co.UJing t.Q. the Se!lshore ~na,ble~; ~Y J»other's apEJ, my • h<Jppin.ess ' me to, free. m)'· inner . thoughts . 1aild safety.· But rm alone now. As ' · abolitdife. How is it.that now.that , .. I fight with· myself to 'continue my l;'ve beeri·'Searching for tnm1ths. ·Search or head back home, 1 nothing has given to my great transcend awareness. awakening. \It's time for a ~;~wim,\ I say I decided to take a boat out to aloud to myself. I tear my clothes· sea for as long as I felt was from my body - freeing myself. I needed. I .packed some provisions stand naked between the watchful and set out. My journal goes eyes ofthe sea and the S;ky. I look along with me everywhere so l at myself in fulfillment and can record my awakening pleasure, adoring my sepia color. (whenever and wherever it may The evenness of how it has come) .. My mind is usually ultra- . -oovereq me compl.etely, protecting sensitive, so I left all drugs me from sun radiation. The sun is behind. This would be my final out and I ·enjoy it.· journey before returning home I do not anchor the boat. I go forever. to the bow and step up looking Sailors look at the sea as their out and over. I see the same in life-line and I can understand Why front as I do when I look behind - it's so vast and eternal - and around me. I step down and immortal. Looking around, you go port-side. The view seems find yourself surrounded by clear better from here. I push myself clean aquamarine water; I prefer over and swim ... to sail in blue waters, because With every stroke 1 feel myself they go out as far as they can, getting closer, so close that I then become the sky. attempt to grasp - realizing my I lived much to rnyself. Of determination has overshone my course I had a family who loved reality, I envision myself coming me but I preferred to leave them nearer and nearer. and search on my own. I began I stop to wade, finding myself two years ago after I lost my encircled within this blue silkiness parents in a mortalfy destructive - my boat is nowhere in sight. accident. I've suffered their loss Has it been taken away with a greatly. Though I was quite an wave and left me, or have I swam adult at the time of their death, it too far out. No time to think, I was a very difficult time in my must continue. lile. Just as I go on my, way, fhe People showed concern for me, water lives up to its unpredictable wondering what I was going to do character by tossing me about. with myself. \l don't know,\ I'd The sea becomes grey and ugly- answer. \I guess I'll have to find reminding me of the scavengers I the right thing.·· That's alii would thought were left behind at shore, say. !'hen standing there staring I forget all the things that I've ott mto nowhere wondering about heard about the sea and its \hat I said. and how I was going susceptibleness to change. to go about finding. I depart I relax and let the rough-grey- \ uhout further questioning. ugly water take me. is it so that i'll waste my love 'on some undeserving intruder . wlto impersonates my Black .{(night why does Love. send ,·,, -,: these jmitators of Love . · , l need your warmth to enfold me is 'it . to make me .. prdvk ':J', ··'·· . to hold me ·in rapturous contentment to carry me away on a rainbow To a million utopias When I drink from your loving cup 1 am delirious As from a magical drug .. ... ~hiph,,blan.ket~ me from within ... :, ;Y<;>Ur .lov~., · ;):~; : .. . Your mystical magical love.· my worthiness of a Black Knight is it to make me stronger is it to show my weaknesses is it to prepare me to re.cQgnize and receive . .. , ·my BlaekJ Knight . · J. , ' ,, ~ •. ~ . -, • r: , f ~, ~ . ,-. I:· , · · 11t'- doesn't, really m~t~er . ;cause j'm ready .. •• ·'!i '' NBC ..... .Nathea B. ~Qusar HER STORY ? . ~ ., They gave me the wrong name, in the first place~. . ., They named me Grac.e and waited for a light and agile ., ~ dancer.. . ~ But some tnck of the genes inixed me up ~ And instead I turned out big and black and burly. ~ . ~ In the second place, I fashioned the wrong dreams. I wanted to dress like Juliet and act ., Before applauding audiences .on Broadway. ., I learned more about Shakespeare than he knew about · himself. But of course, all that was impossible~ . \Talent yes,\ they would tell me; ., \But an actress has to look the part.\ So I ended up waitin' on tables in Harlem And hearing uncouth men yell at me: \Hey momma, you can cancel that hamburger \ And come on up to 102.\ In the third place, I tried the wrong solution. The stuff I drank made me deathly sick ·And someone called a doctor. Next time I'll try a gun. ~ A ~. Naomi L()ng Madgett (1923-) . \' r r ·. ·ar . D1 Raise the hockey in campps tht are you wi follow\n. .announcem By goins and ·l~avi11 College W<l commitmer education t sports. St eniba,:k U would exp academic.~ the school restriction~ woulds()Ol kinds of such as p schedule recruiting, athletes ( to Union, athletic sc for an ah in public lt is n( the messa are at 011 level. Wt scholar , permit a· assorted upon h: Having goes rust the newl nearest a Thus, Chicken- upon common problem haste to unspeak: the NE simply facts. N bothere< relev;mt bearing This tb very s\ found heralde4 going I based CJ The: compih intervi · coache! athletic assista AdrrtiSl associ a the v resoun FA( cause no exl (inclu~ NCAJ basket exten<l

