VoL· 1-08 No.6 - Sche·nectady, New-York . ··, November 2, 1978 Glee- ClUb To Be 'A-ired The Men's Glee Club will be aired Wednesday, Nol,fember 8, over WMfl'J,'·TV,. Channel 17; and WMH'f..;FM,. ·69.1, in a perfortnance of the ''Sesquicentennial Celebration· in Honor of Franz Schubert\ taped last Friday evening in the Memorial-Chapel. Time .of the stereo'- \simul~cast\ is 10:30 p.m. The program Will feature Professor Hugh Allen Wilson:_ directing the Union College Men's Glee Club, with soloists Betty Allen, Jerry Hadley and Mitchell Blair '79. The taped performance includes selec- tions from Schubert's \Mail- nerchore;\ ''TrinkUed\ with Mitchell Blair; \Liebe \Nachthelle\ with Jerry Hadley;. \Standchen '' with · Betty Allen; and \Die Nacht.\ The Eastern Educational Television Network will be responsible for~ distributing the tapes of the performance: It is unknown at present to which specific areas the program will be broadcast, but ft is reasonably certain that the performance will have within · months been aired over ·the entire East Coast and ·very likely into the Midwest. Copies · of the tape will' also be sent to Europe, where plans are in progress. far a possible Holland National Broadcast out of Amsterdam. · Betty Allen is a truly mar- velous mezzo-soprano. Her career began when she won a scholarship to Tanglewood, where she was selected by Leonard Bernstein to sing his \Jeremiah SymphOny.\ Later, Mr. Bernstein, as Musical Director of the New York Philharmonic, chose her to- be soloist in his last concert. Conductors with whom she has worked include Boulez, Stokowski., Leinsdorf, Dorati; ormandy, and Solti. ·A typical season has her singing with such renowned orchestras as those · o.f New York, Philadelph~i, Clevefand, Detroit and Winnipeg. She had starred in the Houston Grand · Opera's production of \Treemonisha\ in Houston, Washington, D.c., and New York and had ·also triumphed in a New York City recital of J\11-.Arnerican music which Byron Belt of the Newhouse Newspapers called \one of the joys of the season.\ Jerry Hadley,. tenor, from munity. . Manchester, Connecticut, Dir:eetor ofthe Union College receiv.ed his Bachelors in Music Glee Club 1 Professor of Music , Education from Bradley and organist-in·r~sidence at University in 1974 and his ·Union, . and a busy recitalist, Masters. iri . M\usic frorn the Mr. Wilson has presented over University of Illinois in 1977. He- -1500 public performances as has been taught by John E. 'organist, harpsichorqist, and Davis at Bradley and by Grace conductor since the beginning of E. Wilson and James Bailey at his professional career in 1949. lllinois, and his coaches include He is presently on the Board of John Wustman, William Directors of the lntercollegiate Warfield, Marshall Williamson, Muslcal Council, an .,. and Warren George Wilson. organizativn which wor:ks for ~ · He began his Qpera career in the advancement of male ~ 1974 with the UUnois Opera choruses across the country. E Theatre as .Tamino in the The .Glee Club .performed a ;:; \Magic FW.te\ and has also similar program of music last b' performed roles in ''Falstaff,\ spring in Town Hall, New York £ \La Bohe.~e,\ \'rhe Crucible,\ Qityt and in the Fogg Art f. and ''Elixir ·Of Love~\ Most Museum at Harvard Univer- recently, he ·ha§ sung with the Contmued on page 9 The Tom Paine cast Lake George Opera Festival in \Die Flederillaus'', and \Tosca;\ and this past summer played there as .Don cu.rzio in the \Marriage of Figaro'' and as Faust ih \Fanst.n Mitchell Blair, baritone -soloist for the Glee ~lub, ·is a senior political science major at Union. A native of Pittsford, New York, he has studied voice for two y-ears under Ruth :Bent, formerly of the Oberlin Con- servatory of Music; one year under Marlin M;errill of the Eastman Scho<!l of Music, two years W1der Terrence Dwyer of Union College, and one year under Prof. H11gh Allen Wilson. lie had participated for four years with the Rochester Sing- Out, a branch of ''Up With People,\ and has had roles in such musicals as \Carousel \Guys and Dolls·,'' \'f!le Apple Tree \ \South Pacific \ and ' . ' \The Fantastiks. '' Mitch has held several positions at Phi Gamma Delta (FIGl) and is \very active~ with the Moun- tebanks. Hugh Allen Wilson, director of the Glee Club, is an organist and harpsichordist of widespread fame. Trained at Yale under Hindemith and Leu .Schrade, he later studied organ with Marcel Dupre in Paris a!ld.harpsichord with Gustav ·Leonhardt in Amsterdam. He bas been the recipient of many honors, in- cluding the Woods-Chandler Prize in organ playing, the Steinway Citation for service to AMerican Music, and more recently tbe U.nion College . Alumni Meritorious Service Award _for outstanding service to -the college and the com .. 'Tom Paine' Underway by DONNA CREELEY After careful consideration, gue§_t, directl')r Robert Walter has sele.eted .the cast for Tom Paine. It consists of fourteen Union students and one young guest actor who are capable of delivering the play's message effectively and entertainingly. Portraying the title role will be Alan Rosenfield, a Union freshman. Alan has had previous theatre experience as· a lead actor, director of three .plays and director and producer of another play: · ' Ian McGiver, also a fresh- man, portrays the role of Tom Paine's -Reputation. This is an important role as it shows the audience the contrasting views that existed concerning Tom Paine's personality. . Other key characters; Marie (owner of the bear pit in which the action occurs) and Major Domo (whose announcements mark the change in scenes) are played by juniors, Verna Lowe and Bill Hancock, respectively. Both Verna ami Bill, as well as the entire cast, also play a number of other characters. The cast also includes fresh- men Demetra :Pontisakos, Melissa Gold. Steven Auer- Appeals Denied Th; Student Forum, in a meeting held Monday, rejected . an appeal made by the Black Student Alliance -for funds to support a Spring Tenn concert. The Black Student Alliance. was seeking appro~ately $19,000 to .sponser a concert which would have included as possible artists, George Benson; Chuck Mangione or Santana. The . Forwn, in a related action, approved a motion to fUild a smaller BSA concert involving approximately $7500. However, ,according to Kevin Moore, Chairman of .the BSA, the lesser funds would be insUfficient to retain any of the better known artists. In addressing the Forum, Kevin Moore argued that \every BSA. concert had generally $Old out in the past';'' and though an Achilles Rink concert would cost more, there was a greater possibility that the BSA could. retain a ·profit and attract an artist appealing to all· Union students and not specifically to members of the BSA. . Alan Rutkjn, Chairman of the Tax Committee, who originaliy rejected the BSA request, stated that the original request was denied in part because concerts sponsored by the BSA appeal only-to members of that group: and are generally at- tendedby \only about 150 Union students.'' Rutkin also stressed having two separate concerts in a short span of time, posed \a conflict of interests.\ In other business, Con· cordiensis appealed a Tax Committee decision denying a phone machine for the Con· cordiensis office, which would cost $160. Co-editor David Sch- mertz presented Concordiettsis' side in the debate as to why such a machine is needed. He stated·- that business mer~hants ·place most advertising over the phone and c~ll during the day. Since there ate not people in Con· cordiensis'_ office during regular daily hours, it is d!f- ficult to get in contact with the newspaper. According to Sch- mertz, an increase in ad- vertising revenue would decrease the student tax money needed by Concordiensis. He also noted that there has been a significant reduci:ion in local advertising. During the debate, the Forwn aired their personal views concerning Concordiensis' appeat A few Forum members felt that the present advertising was adequate. A few Forum members ventured to claim that Concordiensis had too much advertising and not enough news. Following the debate, the Forum defeated the Coucordiensis appeal. bach; S()phomores David Van Wess, I\()bert McHugh, Thomas farrell,Stev:en Kilgore; juniors Susan Weiner, Adam Frey, and senior George Ward. Lee Slllith, a fourteen year old Burnt Hills youth is a,lso in- cluded .in tbe cast. He will be portraying an altar boy, a spy and several other characters. The cast portrays a group of travelling performers in a 1809 show in their on-stage and off· stage nJ()rnents. Several scenes are impi\ovisational requiring the actors to decide on the spur of the moment who will speak specific lines and when to say them. They also involve the audience in conversation with the actor.-s. The cast doesn't consist solely of actors as is shown . by the participation .of Randy Meyers- and Juqy Kotke. Randy, wbo is adept at American Sign - Language, will provide a simulbmeous translation of the entire play, including the music and lines spoken in foreign languages, for anyone with a · bearing impairment. He has also taught the cast how to~sign many ()[ their lines so that they too will be. able to provide the .audience with translati()ns. . Judy is the play's musician. She plays everything from beer cans to !:Jells, piano, and guitar. She also acts as an oriental sound person, providing musical background f<1r the actors'lines. The cast also creates illusions . such as a chess game; a rite of exorcis:m--which includes simulated cannibalism and several simulated rapes-and the investiture of a king. These are ofte11 very difficult illusions to cre~te, but when done ef- fectively it provides a very emotional and moving ex- perience for an inv'olvedl- audience and actill:s. Men's Glee Club Director, Hugh Al.leil Wilson. · that, because the concert committee had budgeted tQ hold a Rin\t concert in the spring, . After this vote, the Forum moved to table the remainder of the agenda until the next meeting, w:hlch will be on Monday night. at 7:30p.m. Tickets for Tom Paine are on sale at the Box Office in the Nott Memorial. Those f()r the Wednesday and Thursday performances, November 9, 15, 16, willbe.soldto Union students for $.50 and $1.50 for Union professors and students from other c<llleges. Tickets for Friday and Saturday per- formal\ces, November 1(), 11, 17, 16, willcost $1.25 and $2.00. The curtain rises 6 o'clock on all nights 11 except for Saturdays when it rises at 7:00 and 10:00. \ . I

', . : ·,- . Page 2 OONOORDIENSIS, November ! 1 1978 Editorials. Shortsightedness . The Student Tax Committee bas had along hiS~tory of poor management and financial. instability. This year, however, the Tax Committee, chaired by Alan Rutktn, is said by many to be back on its feet. we· believe, however, that the efforts of Mr. Rutkin. and. the Committee to compensate for a :previous tradition of d~organization has in fact led to an even more damaging consequence. . The Tax. Committee, we believe, is now $llortsighted, or more ap.propriately, penny wise but· dollar foolish. Th.e Committee has a function to save student tax money. But, because members of the tax committee feel obliged to act in as thrJ,fty a manner possible, opportunities to save add.ition.al -amounts of student tax funds are lost. Th,e relationship the Tax Committee and Oon- cort;Jiensi8 is a unique one. Ooncordie~i8., by earn:iJ?,.g . revenue from outside soui~.ces, is capable ,of returriin:g • a significant portion of the revenue it receives from the. Tax. Committ~e. By increasing the eff~ctiveness:, . •.' ·.''··' \\ .. ··. . of its internal bustne.ss struct~re. and its external busitless practices, Oan,cordiens.is ;bas the potential to greatly ·reduce the -strain it places upon the Tax Committee. In this light, we attempted to improve the quality of our adv~rtising practices and p.etitioned the Tax Comrnittee to approve the· purchase of a rec'oro · d()pliotte to r~cetve .calls from a:dvertising clients at. times when tbe statfwas nottn the of~ice. The request_ was denl~d. Concordiensis appealed th.e decision to the Forum and aga~, the .request was denied. We see_ thes~ dual , actio:ns;. as. a:Q apparent . ~~m­ tradiction. Ooneordiemi8 attempted to respondtb the call to save money and received no reward for 'this effort. We 'believe that the Tax Committee is either blind to the advantages of such an effort and is being penny wise and dollar foolish, or they have lost sight of their role. They argue that we already have enough advertising. But, were they formed to govern the content of the paper or were they formed to save student- tax money? We have proposed a plan to save the student tax committee thousands. of dollars. W.e can only believe that the. Tax .Co:mmittee is either shortsighted or seeking to control the content of the paper. If it is the latter, we will never permit such an infringment. If it is the former, then we can only hope that the mem- bers of the Tax Committee open their eyes and reaffirm the duties they were appointed to perform. • The Editorial Board of Ooncordiensi8 welcomes opposing viewpoints and opinions. Please address your rebuttals to letters .to the Editors. New York Ti·mes Subscribers Due to the strike .against the New York Times, the Tbnes will not be delivered at all this term. However, the Tbnes will be delivered all of-Winter and Spring Term. All subscrjptions for the Winter must be in by Christmas vacation to ensure prompt delivery. All persons_ who ordered the Times for the full year will receive refund,s.for the Fall Term. Subscriptions for the Fall Term only will automatically be applied to the Winter Term unless you call David Siegel (372-5593) or write (Box2243) and request otherwise. . ·,..., .... '\' ~Jet· ~~-. ~ , . . .\'-J 1r;-~.' P .. _ . <!lnnrnr 17 _1~~1~ 95 httttsts . -. ra~~t::h EditOrs-in-chief Production Manager News Editors Layout Editor Feature Editors Associate Eilitor . Classified Editor Arts Editor . Copy Editor Environs Sports Editor Photo Editor Subscription Editors Calendar Editor Fine Lines Editor .... ,ZL~~ . -~~~~ . . . David Schmertz, David Itubin. Debbe DamreU Jim Davis, Sue Barnhart D.anny Woinilower Roslyn Stone, ponna Greeley Matt Nagorsky Terri Moran Steve Monosson Alissa SChagrin · Lisa Voerrnan, Eileen Kanter • Tom Buiocchi Cacy Feuerman Ke1il Marks, Valerie Juster Melissa. Cragin JanDeDeka Staff Photo Staff Marty Dolan, Doug Roscmfeld,Susan Marr · Jim Manning, Steve Geller, Pat Wright, Jonny Barnet, ~Wight Pakan; Richard Sher Business Staff Larry Fallek, Dale Sponaugle, Darrel Seife, Susan Pava, Jenifer Aronoff, Sharon Moss Thirty Years Ago: 'Spirits' Of' Union Today, most College students pretty much take for granted being able to ''hit the 'Skellar\ when they want to grab a beer or sandWich, meet friends or play some 'Pinball and the jukebox. It hasn't always been like that., Thirty years ago, Q~J,9Jl had no on-campus bar. As an historical, as well as en~ tertainment. service to our readers., below is a.n editorial with the headline, \Spirits for Union,\ from the Nov. 12, 1948 edition of Con• cordiensis. .. ''The recent lFC decree closing out all but brethren ~rom fraternity parties has raise~ a proposition on.c~ more: Why 1sn't there a rathskellar Qn - campus opento.all students and facultyJ The seed of thought must lodge in student minds. to facilitate fertile growth. There are . undoubtedly taverns in town where in• telligent gentlemen congregate over a cheering .glass of nut- brown ale to discuss current conb;oversies, but Union students frequently are pmne to accept the nearest bar and let it go atthat. It would definitely be tQlhe-credit of Union to draw the after-study crowd away from the local -dives, slop- chutes, bistros, and taverns and give them a cheaper draught in the _ bar:gain . . . What could be mor.e ·con- ducive to whistling ·merry patter than the association of relaxing minds after several hours of belaboring books? It does not seem likely that a choice between books and brew would. be for long a cardinal · consideration. Most students . are in college to graduate, and would for selfish motives seek the development of mind before salving fevered spirits.· , , . Nor could the lure of' hale fellows on cold nights be step one in knocking down the morals of fledgling scholars. Rather, .it would be a lesson in gentlemanly condqct not · to . participate in -dritiking bouts when mental effh:!lencv is demanded the following mor- ning. The students who learned rational drinking habits while in military service ~re becoming progressively fewer; moderate imbibing is as much a lessori to be learned as the control of temper ... The reconstruction plans for the. c~rrent ·school year include remodeling Old Chapel;. in- cluding the cellar. The suggested meeting place therefore Will be ready for the rathskellar, but will there be'an organizaUi:m developed to utilize it? At a 25-'50 percent. saving on priCes to consumer, beSides providing a meeting place for non-fraternity men · and guests, a rathskellar club · on c;ampus would . greatly eJthanc.e the ~Spirit of Union:' \ Since the · Rathskellar has · opened, plenty of spirits have flowed within its .confines. And tne next time you go· there for a quick bres and some \merry patter:,\ remember that not so· long ago;--students here didn't have such a convenient alter-t native. Committee Spots Committee spots are still these committees should sign open on the Continuing the Ad•hoc Committee list in the Education Committee, . Ad-hoc Student Activities Office. Also Committee on creating a available in that office, is a student handbook, Ad-hoc description ·Of all of the student Committee to examine the role committees. Once a student has of fraternities and sororities on · signed this Ad-hoc somrnittee ca.mpus, and a . special com- list, a ·particular committee can nuttee to work with the Alumni be designated by that student as Office to put together a better to his or her preference. This Homecoming Weekend applies to those who have program. Any student who is already signed the list as well as interested in serving on any of newc()mers. Se:r Lif• by I Meeti this ac~ AUCol11 two pro] to cr;ea draftin prepara Middle other partici] commit After from its chos~~ t represe1 commit1 senior, stu<tent. Taylor faculty Actin! Auburn sUiiimaJ College' centere PresidE mittee~ As fo commit believes reptteser there ar 100 cam of Union int·erviE didates: Ktibur willbe1 these· · selectior: then rna: the Boa selectiol1 Board. TbenE was dis Proposal conceiv1 Forwn. pointing two, stuc study dr were est. All C BYS' The l nance Commit preceder meeting student I expr~ss present: The le: attended fewer th student I membe1 less thai turnout. The f assembl• Steph York Strau has g.

Page 2 CONCORDIENSIS, Novembe,r 13, 1978 Editorials. Shortsightedness The Student Tax Committee has had a long history of poor management and. financial instability. This year, however, the Tax Comm,tttee, chaired by Alan Rutkin, is said by many to be back on its feet. We' believe, however, that the efforts of Mr. Rutkin and. the Committee to compensate for a previous tradition of disorganization has in fact led to an even more damaging c\Onsequence. The Tax Committee, we believe, is n.ow shortsighted, or more appropriately, penny wise but dollar foolish. The Committee has a function to save student tax money. But, because members of the tax committee feel obliged to act in as thrUty a manner possible, opportunities to save additional amounts of student tax funds are lost. The relationship the Tax Committee and Con· cordiensis is a unique one. Ooncordiensis, by earning revenue from outside sources, is capable ,of retur:riing a significant portion of the revenue it receives from the Tax: Com•mittee. By increasing the effectiveness of its internal business structure and its external business practices, Oancordiensis has the potential to greatly reduce the strain it places upon the Tax Committee. In this light. we attempted to improve the quality of our advertising practices and petitioned the Tax CornmUtee to approve the purchase of a recor· dophone t<l receive calls from advertising clients at times when th.e staff was not in the office. The request was denied. Ooncordien,sis appealed the decision to the Forum and again, the request was denied. We see these dual acti<lns as an apparent con- tradiction. Ooneordiemis attempted to respond to the call to save money and received no reward for this effort. We helieve that the Tax Committee is either blind to the advantages of such an effort and is being penny wise and dollar foolish, or they have lost sight of their role. They argue that we already have enough advertising. But, were they formed to govern the content of the paper or were they formed to save student. tax money? We have proposed a plan to save the student tax committee thousands .of dollars. We can only believe that the Tax Committee is either shortsighted or seeking to control the content of the paper. If it is the latter, we will never permit such an infringment. If it is the former, then we can only hope that the mem· hers of the Tax Committee open their eyes and reaffirm the duties they were appointed to perform. . The EditcHial Board of Ooncordiensis welcomes opposing viewpoints and opinions. Please address your rebuttals to letters to the Editors. New Yo·rk Times Subscribers Due to the strike against the New York Times, the Times will not be delivered at all this tenn.llowever, the Times will be delivered all of Winter and Spring Term. All subscriptions for the Winter must 'be in by Christmas vacation to ensure prompt delivery. All persons who ()rdered the Times for the full year will receive refwuis for the Fall Term. Subscriptions for the Fall Term only will automatically be applied to the Winter Term unless you call David Siegel (372-5593) or write (Box 2243) and request other-wise. ~om,.,. ~~0~9, ,.:sfr\:·~ <!tnttrnr 17 ~ ~~~!: ,, birn.eia ~1~ Editors-in-Chief Production Manager News Editors Layout Editor Feature Editors Associate Ed.itl>r Classified Edibr Arts Editor Copy Editor Environs Sports Editor Photo Editor Subscription Editors Calendar Editor Fine Lines Editor ~CT,\11'! . David Schmertz, David Rubin Debbe DamreU Jim Davis, Sue Barnhart Danny Woinilower Roslyn Stone, Donna Creeley Matt Nagorsky Terri Moran Steve Monosson Alissa Schagrin Lisa Voerman, Eileen Kanter Tom Buiocchi Cary Feuerman Ke\ll Marks, Valerie Juster Melissa Cragin JanDeDeka ' Marty Dolan, Doug Rosenfeld, Susan Marr Staff Photo Staff Jim Manning, Steve Geller, Pat Wright, Jonny Bamel, Dwight Pakan, Richard Sher Business Staff Larry Fallek, Dale Sponaugle, Darrel Seife, Susan Pava, Jenifer Aronoff, Sharon Moss Thirty Years Ago: 'Spirits' of· Union Today, most Co~lege stud~nts pretty much take for granted being able to \hit the 'Skellar\ when they want to grab a beer or sandwich, meet friends or play some pinball and the jukebox:. It hasn't always been like that. Thirty years ago, Union had no on-campus bar. As an historical, as well ars en· tertainment. service to our readers, below is an editorial with the headline, \Spirits for Union,\ from the Nov. 12, 1948 edition of Con· cordiensis. ·'The recent IFC <iecree closing out all but brethren from fraternity parties has raised a proposition once mere: Why isn't there a rathskellar on campus open to all students and faculty? The seed of thought must lt~dge in student minds to facilitate fertile growth. There are undoubtedly taverns in town where in- telligent gentlemen congregate over a cheering glass of nut- brown ale to discuss current Unp,rofessional Behavior contr:oversies, but Union students frequently are pr.one to accept the ne:arest bar and let it go at that. It would definitely be to the credit ·Of Union to draw the after-study crowd away from the local dives, slop- chutes, bistros, and taverns and give them a cheaper draught in the bargain . . . What could be more con- ducive to whistling merry patter than the association of relaxing minds after several hours of belaboring books? It does not seem Hkely that a choice between books and brew would be for long a cardinal consideration. Most students are in college to graduate, and would .for selfish motives seek the development of mind before salving fevered spirits. . , Ner could the lure of hale fellows on cold nights be step one in knocking down the morals of fledgling scholars. Rather, it would be a lesson in gentlemanly conduct not to participate in drinking bouts when mental effidencv is demanded the following !nor- for. Eve,n. if the· positions of the BSA and Concor(liensis were in di~;;l.greement with the views of· the forum.lh~ forum should still treat its guests with cOUrtesy and r~spect. Otherwise, most people will continue to believe that they ,are , only a band of arrogant elitists. S.incerely! Chip Symington . Class,of 1982 -- ning. The students who learned rational drinking habits while in military service are becoming progressively fewer; moderate imbibing is as much a lesson to be learned as the control of temper ... The reconstruction plans for the current school year include remodeling Old Chapel, in- cluding the cellar. The suggested meeting piace therefore wi:tl be ready for the rathskellar, but will there be ·an organization developed to utilize it? At a 25..:50 percent saving on prices to consumer, besides providing a meeting place for non-fraternity men and guests, a rathskellar club on campus would greatly enhance the 'Spirit of Union.'' \ Since the Rathskellar has opened, plenty of spirits have flowed within its confines. And the next time you go there for a quick bres and some \merry patter,\ remember that not so long ago;~students here didn't have such a convenient alter- native. ' '. . /·' . f held indoors- to insure. a sue ... ' cessful running? Or, if an, outdoor f~t :was desired, why, wctn•t thosca ill charge cheek out the weather forecasts to try to , ·get a good day~ · Perhap~ this incompetency is . not the fault of the bingo..ers involved. but that of the ad· ministrators and other people who.hav~ been giving bingo the shaft· for years. · · If this is the ease, we bingo fans must unite· soon. We will · not allow ourselves to be bullied around, and we mean business. Walter O'Dugan Class of 1001 Homecomin\g To th~ Editors: Committee Spots Committee spots are still open on the Continuing Education Committee, Ad-hoc Committee on creating a student handbook, Ad-hoc tithes~ iue ' Committee to examine the role was almost. of fraternities and sororities on 'woitdijr th~'t campus, and a special com· at tltiion 1$ .. .. e, if any mittee to work with the Alumni r¢s)ect.. . My. impression. was Office to put together a better that .. .. .J?.ella:vl()r · ;was ti>t~tft}~ H o m e c o m i n g W e e k e n d oopro essiottal ttnd urrdallea program. Any student who is ....... lllllli;illii\\il··········· · ·••·•·· ·•· liilll interested in serving on any of these committees should sign the Ad-hoc Committee list in the Student Activities Office. Also available in that office, is a description of all of the student committees. Once a student has signed this Ad-hoc sommittee list, a particular committee can be designated by that student as to his or her preference. This applies to those who have already signed the list as well as newcomers. Se1 Lif4 by Meet this ac All Coll two pre to ere~ draftir prepar• Middle other partici c01nmi1 After from it: chose 1 represe commi1 .senior, student Taylor faculty Actin Auburn summa College center• Presid' mittee. As f< Commi1 believe: represe there a 100 can of Unim intervi; didates Aubm will be these selectio: then m~ the Bo~ selectio1 Board. Then, was di: Proposa conceiv Forum, pointing two, stu' study dJ were es1 All C BYS The 1 nance Commi: precede meeting student express present The IE: attendee fewer t1 student membe less tha turnout. The assembl Step I York Stral has~

Senate Votes Student- Life Drafting:Commlttee by SUSAN BARNHART Meeting for the first time in this academic year Oct. 26, the All College Senate approved the two proposals on its 11genda, one to cr~ate an eighth self•study drafting committee in preparation. for the upcoming Middle States Review and the other to incre~se stndent participation on aU these committees. After approving the. minutes from its last meeting, the senate chos~~ two of its :members to represent it on the agenda co:rrnnittee. Steve Richards, a senior, was .selected to the stugent.slot, while· Prof. AIM D. Taylor was ·Chosen fQr the faculty position. the Middle States Commission on Institutions of Higher Education reaccredidatio.n examination. . There was little· debate over the proposal. However, question was raised by some members of the senate that, perhaps the proposal was covering ground already •covered. Commenting on the proposal to increase student represen- tation. or committees, Forum President Steve Richards noted that its major focus was to ''encourage chairpersons who have no students 011 their ·committees to obtain students.'' These sentiments were echoed. by Forum. Vice President Randy Feldman and Student Trustee Brien 0 ':('oole. Acting :President Norman P. Auburn then gave a - short sunimary c;~f the state of · the College's affairs. His discussion centered around the Presidential Search Com- Continued on pag~-11 Senate members Randy Feldman and Steve Richards. Student Volunteer Program Organized mittee~ , As for participati<ln in the Committee he said that he believes the senate .is \well repl.!esented.'' ·.He notea .. that there are current!~ more then 100 . candidates for· the PQsition ofUnioqCollege Pr-esident, and int·etviewing of these can- didates has alread.y begun. Kuburn noted the. next step will be the narroWing down of these· ·candidates by the selection· committee, that will then make recommendations to the Board of Trustees. Final selection wo1,Jld be lEft up to the Board. Tbe next order on tile agenda was discussion and vote on Proposal 135. Thi:~ prc:.posal, conceived by the Student Forwn, called for the \ap- pointing (of) one, preferably two, students to eacll()fthe self- study drafting committees that were established to prepare for :by JEFFREY SPITZER Beginning winter term, students will be· able to vabinteer thefr services to a Schenectady agency through the Union College Student Voltmteer Program. . Joe ~olner,director.of student development, thought. ..of the idea, which will be coordinated by students Andrea .Fink and Lisa Katz.· · Early next term there will be an exposition at which representatives of agencies in need of volunteers will be available to interested students. Lisa and Andfea will compile a Volunteer Handbook with descriptions of . the . jobs available in the Schenectady area. The coordinators will also guide students in choosing an appropriate agency .. The aim of the program is to ' \. All Campus Meeting He~d \give the student aetual work -experience or help them decide on a particUlar profession or field.\ Lisa and Andrea will be available to discuss any problems :with the position. The committee has contacted 79 agencies to determine what type ~f · work is available. \V.~rioUS' groups sq.ch as the American Red Cross, Boy Scouts of America and Cerebral Palsy haveindicated a desire to hire Union students. Says Lisa, \There are diverse jobs for our diver.se stud~t body.\ Students vyill be able to choose from jobs which require a daily commitment to casual, once.-a- week positions. Most of the agencies are located in the Schenectady area to facilitate travel. Last spring the conunittee sent out a questionaire to see if a large number of students would be interested-ifi volunteer work. · ~ Says Zolner., \The student - population showed a significant enough interest to organize something,\ The program is also aimed ~_f \inwroving relatfons betweet1 the college and the town of Schenectady.\ According to Andrea, \Union College must establish a reputation as having a responsible student body/' Another questionaire will soon be sentto students to again .assess student interest. Any questions about the Volunteer PrQgram should be addressed to Lisa or Andrea at the Student Activities Office. Progress In Carnegie As many of you may know, the college center, Carneigie Hall, bas been provided by the College· for student use and the betterment of student life on campus. From its beginning-as the mailroom-the college center has had an obvious need for management. Hence, the for- - mation of the College Center Committee. The purpose of the committee is to not only manage the room assignment and maintainence of the building, but also to provide information about the facilities and services available in the center. Present Governance System Discu·ssed The Student Activities office located on the center's main floor, is staffed by Lorraine Marra, student activities coordinator, and Joe Zolner, Director of Student I>evelop- ment. This is our resource center and the amount of information available here through Lorraine and Joe is endless. They include the activities calendar, schedules for movies and local buses, club-sponsors,., and ac- tivities and contacts, to name just a few. BY STEVEN G. SINGER The Union College Gover- nance self-study Drafting Committee he1d an un- precedented \all CaJ11pus\ open meeting on Oct. 18, allowing students the oppor.t unity to expr~ss their opinion os the present governance system. The less-than 30 students that attended the meeting were far fewer than hoped f()r by many student leaders. The C()lllltlittee members. seemed. however. lessthan surprised by the light turnout. · The feeling c;~f the small assemblage seemed t() be one of general satisfaction with the present governance system. According to committee member Anton P. Warde, an associate professor of German, the students indicated that \the opportunity for student par- ticipation in the decision- making process was at a desirable level.\ Those who attended the meeting stressed the im- portance to them of student committees. Byron Nichols, another committee member and an associate professor of political scien~.e, noted that .he was \struck by the importance that students · attached to com- mittees.\ , They appeared to be, in his words,\ much more interested in that (co01111ittees) than in, for in$ta!!ce, the College Senate.\ Prof. Nichols' im- pressions are more than likely accurate, as upon the ter- mination of that . particular discussion, more than half of the students left the meeting! The theme of the specific suggestions posed to the committee was mostly one of improving the relationships between, and communication among, the various committees existing Within !he schO()l. ::.·· ~' '· : :. '~- ·. '\'):- Stephan Gobel; ttle German. consulate In New York City, speaks on the Getman economy hi Strauss Lounge ()ci. 23. Though the country has gained c::onsi.c:ferable economic power, he said; 1t has not been used as a lever for political advantage. Gobel sp<>ke for about an hour to an audience of about 15 persons. One student, for example, suggested achieving this goal by \changing the composition of the (student) senate to in- clude members of elected campus committees, or selecting the membership for committees from those elected to the Senate.\ Prof. Warde sununarized the meeting saying most students' responses to the questions of the drafting committee reflected more interest in fine-tuning the present governance system than in such $Weeping changes as, for example, replacing the Senate with separate deliberating bodies for faculty and students.\ . As a follow-up to this meeting, yet another open meeting took place the following Wednesday, Oct. 25, but this time for faculty members r~ther than students. .. ~ Commented Prof. Nichols, \The faculty seemed less concerned with committees, and more concen•ed with the relationships be1.ween the faculty and the ad- ministration.\ Milch like the students, the faculty appeared fairly content with the status quo. \However added Prof. Nichols, \although the faculty recognizes that sometimes the administration must overrule a committee's decision~ the faculty would like to have that decision e~plained to them.\ At this time there are no plans ' for any future open meetings. Should, however, the need for such discussion ever present itself again, the committee seemed willing to avail itself. The office is open daily during the week. Joe and Lorraine are always willing to discuss any ideas for improvement as well as general compla4lts about life outside the classroom. They are not only avid listeners, but also make a point of taking direct action; so stop in anytime. Also available in the college center: the events bulletin board· outside the mailroom, Strauss Lounge, the Pub, cabaret and the ride board; Wruc and the. Director's Lab Theatre, and offices for Con- cordlensls and Union Book. The future looks· promising for the center, with a new lounge opening on the first floor by the end of the term. Such activities as the volunteer expo, art exhibits and paintin~ sales are also in store. Watch the activities calendar for further details. · · Input from the College conununity is alway$ welcome. This is our building-let's use it to its fullest capacity. Please do not hesitate to inquire as to the facilities and information available here. Joe Zolner is always available to help answer any and all questions. Additional questions suggestions and criticisms may be directed to the committee at our weekly meetings every Wednesday at 5:00 in the Pub, or to Debbe Damrell (Box 686) or Mike Stockman (Box 1617).

Senate Votes Student- Life Drafting Committee by SUSAN BARNHART Meeting for the first titne in this academic year Oct. 26, the All College Senate approved the two proposals on its agenda, one to create an eighth self-study drafting committee in preparation for the upcoming Middle States Review and the other to increase student participation on all these colillllittees. After approving the minutes from its last meeting, the senate chose two of its members to represent it on the agenda committee. Steve Richards, a .senior, was selected to the student slot, while Prof. Alan D. Taylor was chosen for the faculty position. the Middle States Commission on Institutions of Higher Education reaccredidation examination. There was little debate over the proposal. However, question was raised by some members of the senate that perhaps the proposal was covering ground already cevered. Commenting on the proposal to increase student represen- tation or committees, Forwn President Steve Richards noted that its major focus· was to ''encourage chairpersons who have no students on their committees to obtain students.\ These sentiments were echoed by Forum Vice President Randy Feldman and Student Trustee Brien 0 Toole. Acting President Norman P. Auburn then gave a short summary of the state of the College's affairs. His discussion centered around the Presidential Search Com- mittee. Continued on page 11 Senate members Randy Feldman and Steve Richards. Student Volunteer Program Organized As for participation in the Committee he said that he believes the senate is \well represented.\ He noted that there are currently more then 100 candidates for the position of Union College President, and interviewing of these can- didates has already begun. Auburn noted the next step will be the narrowing down of these ·candidates by the selection committee, that will then make recommendations to the Board of Trustees. Final selection would be left up to the Board. The next order on the agenda was discussion and vote on Proposal 135. This proposal, conceived by the Student Forum, called for the \ap- pointing (of) one, preferably two, students te each of the self- study drafting committees that were established to prepare for by JEFFREY SPITZER Beginning winter term, students will be able to volunteer their services to a Schenectady agency through the Union College Student Volunteer Program. Joe Zolner, director of student development, thought of the idea, which will be coordinated by students Andrea Fink and Lisa Katz. Early next term there will be an exposition at which representatives of agencies in need of volunteers will be available to interested students. Lisa and Andrea will compile a Volunteer Handbook with descriptions of the jobs available in the Schenectady area. The coordinators will also guide students in choosing an appropriate agency. The aim of the program is to All Campus Meeting Held \give the student actual work experience or help then~ decide on a particular profession or field.\ Lisa and Andrea will be available to discuss any problems with the position. The committee has contacted 79 agencies to determine what type of work is available. Various groups such as the American Red Cross, Boy Scouts of America and Cerebral Palsy have indicated a desire to hire Union students. Says Lisa, \There are diverse jobs for our diverse stud~t body.\ Students will be able to choose from jobs which require a daily commitment to casual, once-a- week positions. Most of the agencies are located in the Schenectady area to facilitate travel. Last spring the committee sent out a questionaire to see if a large nwnber of students would be inter@Sted·m volunteer work. · Says Zolner, \The student population showed a significant enough interest to organize something.\ The prQgram is also aimed ~t \improving relations between ~the college and the town of Schenectady.\ According to Andrea, \Union College must establish a reputation as having a responsible student body.\ Another questionaire will soon be sent to students to again assess student interest. Any questions about the Volunteer Program should be addressed to Usa or Andrea at the Student Activities Office. Progress In Carnegie As many of you may know, the college center, Carneigie Hall, has been provided by the College for student use and the betterment of student life on campus. From its beginning-as the mailroom-the college center has had an obvious need for management. Hence, the for- mation of the College Center <A>mmittee. The purpose of the committee is to not only manage the room assignment and maintainence of the building, but also to provide information about the facilities and services available in the center. Present Governance System Discussed The Student Activities office located on the center's main floor, is staffed by Lorraine Marra, student activities coordinator, and Joe Zolner, Director of Student Develop- ment. This is our resource center and the amount of information available here through Lorraine and Joe is endless. They include the activities calendar, schedules for movies and local buses, club-sponsors,. and ac- tivities and contacts, to name just a few. BY STEVEN G. SINGER The Union College Gover- nance self-study Drafting Committee held an un- precedented \all campus\ open meeting on Oct. 18, allowing students the opportunity to ex:press their opinion os the present governance system. The less-than 30 students that attended the meeting were far fewer than hoped for by many student leaders. The committee members seemed, however, less than surprised by the light turnout. The feeling of the small assemblage seemed to be one of general satisfaction with the present governance system. According to committee member Anton P. Warde, an associate professor of German, the students indicated that \the opportunity for student par- ticipation in the decision- making process was at a desirable level.\ Those who attended the meeting stressed the im- portance to them of student committees. Byron Nichols, another committee member and an associate professor of political science, noted that he was \struck by the importance that students attached to com- mittees.\ They appeared to be, in his words,\ much more interested in that (committees) than in, for instance, the College Senate.\ Prof. Nichols' im- pressions are more than likely accurate, as upon the ter- mination of that particular discussion, more than half of the students left the meeting! The theme of the specific suggestions posed to the committee was mostly one of improving the relationships between, and communication among, the various conunittees existing within the school. Stephan Gobel, the German consulate in New York City, speaks on the German economy in Strauss Lounge Oct. 23. Though the country has gained considerable economic power, he saia, 11 has not been used as a lever for political advantage. Gobel spoke for about an hour to an audience of about 15 persons. One student, for example, suggested achieving this goal by \changing the composition of the (student) senate to in- clude members of elected campus committees, or selecting the membership for committees from those elected to the Senate.\ Prof. Warde summarized the meeting saying most students• responses to the questions of the drafting committee reflected more interest in fine-tuning the present governance system than in such sweeping changes as, for example, 1 eplacing the Senate with separate deliberating bodies for faculty and students.\ As a follow-up to this meeting, yet another open meeting took place the following Wednesday, Oct. 25, but this time for faculty members rather than students. ~ Commented Prof. Nichols, ''The faculty seemed less concerned with committees, and more concen•ed with the relationships bet ween the faculty and the ad- ministration.\ Much like the students, the faculty appeared fairly content with the status quo. \However added Prof. Nichols, \although the faculty recognizes that sometimes the administration must overrule a committee's decision; the faculty would like to have that decision explained to them.\ At this tinle there are no plans · for any future open meetings. Should, however, the need for such discussion ever present itself again, the committee seemed willing to avail itself. The·office is open daily during the week. Joe and Lorraine are always willing to discuss any ideas .for improvement as well as general complaints about life outside the classroom. They are not only avid listeners, but also make a point of taking direct action; so stop in anytime. Also available in the college center: the events bulletin board outside the mailroom, Strauss Lounge, the Pub, Cabaret and the ride board; Wruc and the Director's Lab Theatre, and offices for Con- eordiensis and Union Book. The future looks promising for the center, with a new lounge opening on the first floor by the end of the term. Such activities as the volunteer expo, art exhibits and painting sales are also in store. Watch the activities calendar for further details. Input from the College community is always welcome. This is our building-let's use it to its fullest capacity. Please do not hesitate to inquire as to the facilities and information available here. Joe Zolner is always available to help answer any and all questions. Additional questions suggestions and criticisms may be directed to the committee at our weekly meetings every Wednesday at 5:00 in the Pub, or to Debbe Damrell (Box 686) or Mike Stockman (Box 1617).

Page 4 OONCORDIENSJS,. November S, 1978 Get AWay From. It All \'} \+.\~\\ M~l\.lt Union College's Olympic Bobsl.ed' by LYNNE GR~ENBERG Each \eekend a group of Union CfUege students leave behind the basic week:end fraternit:,. parties and footbaU games and spend their weekends living in and enjoying the outdoors. These students are members of the Outing Club. The Outing Club has the distinction .of being one of the oldest clubs on campus. Currer:tly there are about 65-70 club members. The club rWls hiking, rock climbing, caving, and cross-coWltry ski trips to rtam~ only a few. Gordori Ca.tlstrom, actiljlg president--of the Outing ClU:b 1 Geek Pushes Olympic Sled Did you know that Union College is designing a bobsled? And did you know that this bo.bsled will be built in time to compete in the 1980 Olympic Games in Lake Placid? The Union College sing, dance, tell jokes, and be his .usual self. There is also the possibility _of a .guest ap- pearance by Union's resident May_Dard Fergusons, Fred Berkowitz and John Samuelian. Following the performance, WRUC will be playing tunes at your request. After the Geek does his thing, there will be ctmgging contests, with winners receiving a bottle of Union's favorite, Jack Daniels. So, burn your Orgo texts, bag \I Love Lucy\ for an evening, and co:mrilit yourself to the hedonistic thrill of carefree abandon this Friday night at 9 P.M. In the immortal words of Irving Kafka, \So what's to lose?'·' ex:plained that the club basically runs whatever trips interest people. \We won't cancel a trip for weather or anything.\ Gordon feels that the greatest thing about the Outing Club is \Getting a group together, finding something they like to do, and doing it.\ This past week-end the Outing Club had a Halloween trip to the club's cabin in Schoharie, New York. Carl Snyder, the club's acting vice president, led the trip. About twenty people participated. According to Carl, \.rt was just a fantastic ex- perience. At twelve midnight I led a g-ro-qp of people caVing. It's an experience that just can't be described, you have to do it . .Everyone hadsuch a great time they personally thanked me~·· - The Outing Club cabin in +Schoharie· was purchased about 2a years ago by an alumnus. It's q1.1ite extensive with a living room, kitchen, and sleeping loft. Many of the trips use the cabin as their base. Carl says, \The cabin. is probably your biggest ·asset.\ 7 Anyone can get . involved in the Outing Club. Jon Titus, a fr.eshman, has already gone on four of the trips. ''It'sso great to get away and enjoy the out• doors. Everyone has such a great time.'' This writer is not extinct from the Outing Club fever. On Sunday, October 8,. a hike was held up Buck Mountain overlooking Lake George. Paul Connors of the Alumm OffiCI: .led the trjp. The view from the top of the mountain {with .heavy snow falling) was an un- forgettable experience that could never be traded for an afternoon of studying at Union. The Outing Club owns a great deal of equipment Which an members have access to at any time. There are canoes, back- packs, tents, caving and mountain climbing gear, and numerous other outdoor gear. All the gear is stored in the basement of West. Any m~mber who wants to sign-out gear merely must let the -club know at one of the Tuesday night meetings, but Outing Club trips have preference over the equipment. - ·· The Outing Club meets at 7:30 every Tuesday night in the Hale House lounge. Membership is only $5 a year, of $2 a term and anyone is welcome. to join. On November 7, the Outing Club elections will be held at the weekly meeting. All trips are announced at the weekly meetings. As Carl Snyder .says, \We have a good future ahead and a great deal of interest.\ Mechanical Engineering Department is working.with the American Bobsled Research Association to . design the. first modern American bobsled for Olympic competition. David Ullman, associate professor in mechanical engineering, is supervising several mechanical engineering seniors who are working on different aspects of the sled as their senior project. Cbristopher Cross, a former bobsledder acting as consultant and adviser to the project, has already selected a team to ride the sled, and they have started training ·for the Olympics. The bobsled team will be in attendance to explain the project and to answer any questions about bobsledding in general. Periodically throughout the evening they will be showing a film on bob- sledding. Tickets redeemable for a beer will be sold for 25 cents to raise money for the £qture training of the team. Night Club,A Success Last Friday night, October 27th, magic was performed on the Union College campus. To help with their training program a fWld-raising ex- travaganza has been planned for this Friday, Nov. 3 -- tomorrow-from 9 p.m. until whenever in Old Chapel. Visual Arts Talent bySVENPAUL · The featured performer will be Todd (The Geek) Miller. Starting at 9 p.m. Todd will The Visual Arts department of Union College has quite a bit to be 1 proud of. Considering the relatively small number of faculty members (5. all told). Uikin.g . . . Co.ve E-Lploring Camp~ CMoe.ing Bac1<1 .. · in~ Mounto.i'neerino:J ~d\WJic:al Climb'~ X-C Sk'ri11tj ~ pr,v,Cie..: JiJstruc'ftim fbr tire Ncultce for tnforma.t i<Jn.,call: · · · · . (}ardon 374·0797 Carl 382·!5'7.3 s~owshoeing 'Bic.yding Cao(nTrif's 11 and more .. · FUn fora!//! -D·utch Hol.low Pub-- New Menu Begins Nov. 6 Try our new pita bread · and deli sandwiches. We'll think you'll •e pleCisantly surprised Try Our Famous Hot Dogs Free Beer With Dinners- Fridays and Saturdays ,. this department has a lisJ of accomplishments that has earned the respect of . many organizations both in the United States and in the world. Aside from giving the students of Union College what the faculty considers a very reputable visual arts edUcation, these five individuals have display':'!d their ar.twork in many of the finest galleries in America. Arnold Bittlernan's work was displayed. hast spring in the Museum of Modern Art in New York City. He also displayed his artwork in the Aaron Berman Gallery in r-f;Y.C. . Prof. Nina Rosenbloom has presented her creations in many well renowned exhibitions. Her work was displayed . in the Arsenal Gallery in N.Y:C. to name only oil e. Prof. Charles L. Steckler has exhibited drawings at many noted galleries also. Recently, he was awarded first prize by the Cooperstown Art Association for his artwork. The talent of our Visual Arts department is certainly not only limited to the canvas. L. Weinberg for example; is pre$ently in Wilmington, Delaware where he has been commissioned to render his talents to the completion of a monument to the holocaust, depicting the plight of the Jews duringWW II. As If these accomplishments are not impressive enough, Professor' V. Bush, chairman of the Arts Dept. has delivered talks in Edinburgh, Scotland and has recorded a talk for the British Broadcasting Company in reference to the pain~ing Giambalogna. Sh~ was invited to speak at the American Academy in Rome, Italy and will deliver a talk to the Philological Association of th~ Pacific Coast on Nov. 12. Union's own Social Committee, with the· help of decorations setting the atmosphere in ·.the Alumni Gym, transformed $3.50 tickets into a great night of entertainment and dancing. The event was sold out in advance,. and a capacity crowd of 200 guests (plus scores of Social Committee workers posing as· waiters and waitresses, bar- tenders,. ticket-takers, organizers, supervisors, and ot.he miscellaneous crew), bustled around the gym, laughing, dancing, and just having the time of their lives. The--evening's festivities started off with dancing to the sounds of \Eight to the Bar,\ a great band that played music mostly from the forties and fifties (Swing and jazz made up much of the repertoire), and no matter what their taste; no one could deny that the lively sounds were conducive to dancing. The place was jum- ping from start to finish, and the large dance floor allowed for extremely large nwnbers of people to join in. Comedian Sean Morey per- formed between band sets, and with an act interspersed with juggling and jokes, kept the crowd laughing througbout. As Morey performed,. juggling anything from M & M's to let- ~ tuce to a chicken, the second shift crew replaced the first, and prepared for the second half of the evening, which proved to be just as successful as the first. All in all, SoCial Committee's \Nightclub\ proved to be an enjoyable success and hopefully , there Will be a repeat per- formance sometime in Winter of Spring term. The Social Committee would like to exten<l its gratitude to anybody who helped with any aspect of - \Nightclub and to any one who attended and had- a nic~ ti{ne. NYPIRG Court Guide The New York Public Interest Resear_ch Group, Inc. (NYPIRG) has announced the publication of a revised edition of the Albany \Guide to the Small Claims Court.\ '.iThis pamphlet gives basic information on -bow to use the Small Claims Court most ef- fectively,'\' NYPIRG staff member Thom Cullen said. ~'Dissemination of this in- formation is important for .any court that is known as 'the people's court.\' The new guide provides in- formation on how 1 to file a complaint, who is able to sue, who may be · sued, how to prepare for trial, and ·how to collect on a judgment. Th'e. revised. guide was researched and prepared by NYPI:RG staff members with the assistance of Albany Small Claims ~<l City Court Judge Morton Lynn. Continued on page 7 ' Why sit on a hard sofa~~ when you can s.it on a soft one? - VISIT- NEEDS and NECESSITIES Used and Reconditioned Furniture, Appliances, and Stereos Visit our rear warehouse - Furniture bought and· sold- 783 Statest, Schenectady,N.Y.12307 FREE DELlV£RY 374-3424 '· R Pr< of { Dep~ \Nel: Studl 30. Pr< was E Tra winds :coa~t, 'three life al semin Fro home part c am The Club j compE Ultim last w Uni< game~ Alban: one p< Union' Queen forfeit short~ again: educa1 inexpe MiddlE player Unio their avengt weeks close\ one .pc points from Williar defeati score < Mint game, battled Union outrun RPite to 9ref Afte1 Union: play 1 againsl Alban1 becaus were pre vim Unio1 Albany back tc Union seesa\1 Albany Albm pressec games I Union 1 to learn furtheJ petition

\ Page 5 Rockef.eller Co~e Study research with Professor William Daniels, also of Union, for their book · Governor :Roc.kefeller in New York: A Case of Pragmatic Liberalism. by PETER PERRIN Professor James Underwood of Union's Political Science Department lectured on \Nelson Rockefeller: A Case Study of Ex:ecutive Style'' Oct. 30. Prof. Underwood's lecture was based u,pon his ioint At various points in his talk, :Prof. Underwood passed jokes. His material-fascinated faculty members and students alike as the picture of Nelsf>n ,:. - Biology ID Maine Trading Union's campus for a windswept island off the Maine coast, 23 students recently spent ~three weeks studying marine life as a prelude to a fall term . seminar on \marine biology.\ From At'lg. '26 to Sept. 167 their home was Appledore Island, part of the Isles of Shoals nine Frisbee by ADAM FREY _ and MICHAEL POLLOCK The Union College Fris.be.e Club joined four other teams to compete in the. RPI Invitati()n&l Ultimate Frisbee 'TOtll'nament last weekend. Union lost the first three games but came back ag~inst Albany only to be defeated by one point in the final seconds. Union's only victory came whe~ Queens college was forced to·-- forfeit because of a player shortage. - The first match against Middlebu~ry was educational for the relatively inexperienced Union team as Middleburry defeated the disc players 25 to 10. Union took on Williams in their second game to try to avenge the 36 to 8 romp of two weeks ago. The game started close with Union closing within on-e .point with a brilliant five point streak. It was all downhill from there, however, as Williams took control, again defeatin~ Union by a closer score of 22 to 10. ' miles .;out from Portsmouth, N.H. The-island is adually just about the size of Unioh's 100- acre campus and, according to Biology Professor Carl George,. \is an ideal setMng for tharine . study~\ In addition to the marine life in the surrouriding waters and sho.res, Appledore Island plays host to colonies of black-backed · gulls qnd cormorants. other nearby islands serve as the wintering horne of harbor seals, George reports.· . \Our group came back very- enthus-iastic,\ George said. \We had tremendous weather, and we were able to get a lot of good work done.\ The first two weeks consisted of discussions, , lectures and field study, .all tiined t@take best advantage of the prevailing tides and. weather. The third week was devoted to Individual research projects, the results of which · will be discussed in papers in the fall term sen:iinar. Visitors included commercial fishjng vessels 'Which would s,hare unusual or interesting specimens with the class. One boat brought in three huge sharks, one weighing dose to 200 pounds, George reported. Interrupting its planned · schedule, the group would climb aboard the commercial vessels for lectures and demonstr-ations of corrfmercial fishing prac- tices. . If study. specimens were in abundant supply, fresh water was not, and everyone had. to become accustomed to washing and shaving in salt water .. ''We had a half-quart of fresh water per day per person, and that's not much,'' George said. But morale didn't suffer Minutes after the Williams game, a tired Union team battled tournament host RPI. Union started well, but was outrun by the highly organized RPI team. The final score of 31 to 9reflected the team's fatigue. • seriously, he added. After a hard night's partying, Union returned the next day to play two scheduled games against Queens College and Albany. Queens forfeited because two of their players were overwhelmed by the previous night's partying. Union scored first in the Albany game. Albany came back to go ahead by one. Then Union tted as the game see.sawed throughout with Albany coming up on top. Albany and RPI both ex- pressed interest in scheduling games throughout the year. The Union t-eam is looking forward to learning and growing through further intercollegiate com- petition. Union .began to make use of the off-shore site, whose laboratory and rooming facilities are maintained by other· institutions, seven years ago. The following College students participated in the program: David P. Beguin, E. Wallace Chilton, Barry E. DiBernardo, Glenn R. Every, Barbara J. Gauger, Jeffery E. Gerst, David M. Gooier, Joel R. Hass, Holly Kent, Hoger Landau, John Lyons; Tomas G. McKee, Randall Myers, Carol Reynolds, John Samuelian, Carl Seiden, Bonnie J. Sendzicki, James W. Thaceray and ''Andrew Yuan. Frisbee Tea·m Captain, Drew Lianopoulos Rockefeller developed. Prof. Underwood followed Rockefeller's life from his childhood to his overcoming a .learning disability to his political career. Go:vernor Hoc~efeller's first political mission was to prevent Nazi Germany from .making alHes among the Latin 1 Am.ericans during the late 1930's. From there, he pioneered other proJects such as proposing universal life in- surance in New York State as ·a model for the federal govern.' ment to follow. Although his plan was not passed in the state, it did start a movement . Thr@ughout his career, Prof. Underwood said, Rockefeller controlled his own destiny. There are elaims that he has polled one third of the world,-to find out what the people wantedr but rather, to leam how to sell his policies. Lectures such as Professor Underwoorl's require much research. Prof. Underwood and Daniels have been on sabatical to devote their time to intensive interviews and research. Prof. James Underwood of Politi cia I Science Department Re~earch Papers Donated The Schenectady Archives of S..cience and Technology, a part ··of Union College;s Schaffer Li~rary, has · received a collection of papers of Dr. Kenneth Hay Kingdon, a General Electric scientist who retired in 1959 after 39 years on the staff of G.E.'s_ Research energy. A graduate of the University of Toronto, Dr. Kingdon joined G.E. in 1920 and worked on electron tube research. D'Uring · World War II; he was involved in the development of anti- submarine devices; and returned to atomic energy work in 1944. Laboratory.' · Dr. Kingdon was one of the pioneers in the field of atomic energy. In .1939, h.e and D;. Herbert. C. Pollock succeeded m isolating from natural uraniwn minute quantities of U·235, the uranium isotope which makes possible the use of nuclear Following the war, he was placed in charge of the research laboratory's section for atomic power work, which later became the l(nolls Atomic Power Laboratory. In the early 1950s he became associate director of -the re~earch .MAGIC A TERRIFYING lOVE STORY' JOSEPH E. LEVINE PRESENTS MAGIC ANllfONY HOPKINS ANNoMARGRET BURGESS MEREDITH ED LAUTER EXECUTIVE PRODUcER C.O. ERICKSON I MUSIC'BY JERRY GOLDSMITH SCREENPLAY BY WILLIAM GOLDMAN, BASED UPoN HIS NOVEL PRODUCED BY JOSEPH E. LEVINE AND RICHARD P.LEVINE laboratory. Dr. Kingdon is the 12th scientist to donate original manuscript material to the Schenectady Archives of Science and Technology, which was fonnally established in 1976, l!is papers, comprising 22 linear feet of notes, writings and laboratory books, are now being catalogued fully by Frances D. Miller, archivist, under the direction of Ruth Anne Evans, assistant librarian. Until tile work is completed the material will not be generally available. DIRECTED BY RICHARD AlTENBOROUGH PmNTS BYOE LUXE\ TECHNICOI.OR\ !RI~·~ ~8 Cl1.,...__.~ .. STAATS WEDNESDAY, NCNEMBER 8TH AT A THEATER NEAR 'tUJ CHECK LOCAL NE\NSF)\pfRS FOR THEATER USTINGS __ /

Pag.e 6 OONOORDIJ!JNSIB,~November :e, 19~8 art6 cultUre Nasty Habits! No· HaliOwee\n \. ' ·: - . . ·.- -- by GEORGE llEHBERT l _ \Webav~li~ard ;y.our side~of the story I n~w bear ours. P-otion It was g~ling to be a horrible costs are rising 'daily and our Halloween. All the pumpkins salar~es haye · remahied un- had skipped ·town and changed. It ~osts a broom and' a established a chain of family leg to make a half decent .frog steak restaurants. The witches transformation brew these had formed a union and were days.\ · ·' refusing to work bCcause tlteir 0 · E - b The H: .L. . mem- ers wages· weren't high enough. The thought it over._ _., , · . laundercer had put tpo much \20 cents an hour ·raise and starch in .the gho~ts, so. they we'll absorb a sizeable share of were. out of 9ction . for th,e your :taxes. •• , · · ev~nmg. Yes, H~lloween wasn t -:· \25 cents arid .no taxes.!\ . go,~g t~ be a.s.lt use?_ to. . ?? ''25 cents ok3'y, but the' Who s wntmg th1s story . . proposed ta:x: cut sta:Ys. n Get someone who knows how to · · construct a proper sentence!\ Even the editors were getting edgy. Meanwhile, all the children were bitching to their parents. ''Mom, Halloween really blows this year. I'm not going to get to use my Japa~ese Tourist costume; Me and the kids spent hours preparing it.\ \Now Joh~y, there's-always next year!' . \But nex:t year I'll be mature and consider it childish to trick or treat.\ -. \That's life.\ Elsewhere, the Halloween o:r Lose Everything (H.O.L.E.) committee was establishing negotiations with the witches .. ''Deal!\ Everyone- sighed in relief. . , , Over at the haunt-ed house, more H.O.L.E. people were working-to malte Halloween a rea}ity~. In one corner, one ghost was being worked over and results were being achieved. ''How do you--leel, kid?'! As--- the volunteer continued pounding the, soli:dified spook against . a hedl)9st, ..the ghost began to regain feeling in his &.heet. . •• __ . \It's_ getting tHere. Keep Continued. on pag-e 11 \Ladies do you realize· that you are aborting the hope~ and expectations of countless American children and college students·? By not. doing your thing, America just isn't America. Besides, all the kids are returning their costumes to the store and. my uncle in the business is losing. a fortune.\ Bunny Burton Borids Books Upon hearing the committees complaints, Rich Witch (Witch Union Head) responded with a few of her own. Ensemble Sf,arts Anew by TOM GOLDSTEIN The Union Jazz Ensemble got off with a fast and strong start this year. The band opened with a concert on College Day, and another during Homecoming Weekend. On November 17, the band has scheduled an engagement on campui. The bandhas undergone some changes since last year. The first and-most obviolis of these changes is that for the first time, the band Will be under the direction of a Union student. _Every Tuesday and Sunday, Fred Berkowitz leads the band through their bi~week~y rehearsals. Fred has a tremendous rapport with the band; which enables them to have. much more· productive and enjoyable rehearsals than was previo~sly possible. In addition to their new conductor, the ensemble has allowed women to join for the first time th1s Year. The new members are Che,ryl Fitzgerald on Alto Sax, Kathy Keville on French Horn, and Nancy Tubbs on Flute. Besides supplying the band with more musical talent these young ladies provide. a nice change in the band's topography. Another interesting addition to the band is Bill Coury and his · Synthesizer. Bill provides the Don't Miss .The Union Jazz Ensemble In Concert Friday November 17 • 8:30p.m. in Memorial Chapel Come hear the sQ_unds of Union's own 25- .. piece Big Band for free! . ... ~·~-- ........ ~- ·- band with · the interesting sounds that are essential in performing many of the con- temporary pieces. . · Fimtlly ti:1e band would like to welcome Brad Fisher, Bill McNeile, Jon Lee, Steven Lerner., Fred Brown and Joe Laurin into the .group. They have joined ii1 on both the good music and the good times. The Jazz Ensemble welcomes everyone to get in on the fun at their concert on November 17. Editors' work gets hairy! Area Calendar Music Fri.,. Nov. 3-8uranch Seber will put on a one-woman show called. ''Women In and Out of · Love\ in the Recital Hall of · SUNY-A. There Will also· be a show on Satur-day., Nov. 4-; both shows will begin at 8 p.m. For further information call 457- 8606. Fri., Nov. 3-Eric Schoenberg will appear in . concert at the · Eighth Step COffee House ·in Albany. There will be a second : show on Sat., Nov. 4; Both shows are at 8:45·p.m. For more info. call 434-1703. Sat., Nov~. 4,... On SUNY-A Main Stage th~ University Singers will perform on' Saturday and on Sumtay, NW'. 5, at 8:30 p.m. Tues., Nov. 7--The University · Community Sympho.ny . Orchestra will give a concert on : . the Main Stage at SUNY a A. The · concert will begin at 8·:30 p.m. For more info, call 457-&iOO. · Ticket~ go on sale Nov. 6 for the 1978 Chassidic'SongFestivM sponsored be· Coalitiofi'..Hillel at GaHery at the Junioreollege of· SUNY-A. The Festival will be Albany. The show will begin at held on N,ov. 28at8p.rn. i:n Page..... a a.m. For more info. cal1270- Hall, 135 Western Ave., Albany .. 2344. · For more info. call 453-8000 or' 457-75D8. Movies Thurs., Nov. 2-Guilderland Central High School will present video artist Ed Emshmiller_and 8ome of his recent works in the school's auditorium. The event, sponsored by ViDEOSPIRIT~ will begin at 8:00 p.m. . Fri., Nov. :r--DidYouSee That Theater Thurs., Nov. 9 At the Junior' College of Albany r The. Chamber Repertory · Theatre will present \Mark twain Sketches.\ The show can be seen iidhe JCA flym atll: 15 a.m. For fUrther info. ca:ll 270.. : 2344.' ' / Movie will :present Erich Von e· Xht'bt\·fS· Stroheim's Eur.opean romance, The Wedding March, Fridaf.; \\1'hrough . November 20, screenings will be at 8 and 10 SUNY .. A will present Tenth · p.m.; there will also be a Street Days, a compilation of showing on Saturday, Nov. 4, at works. 'be artist during the '50's u·:30 p.m. The movies can be and the Mohawk-Hudson· seen in Auditoriwn One, 75 New lnvitattonal, works by/ two· Scotland Ave., Albany. artists from the 1977 Regional ·EXhibition. SUI'-}Y-A Gallery is Lectures open Tues.-Fri., 9 a.m.-5 p.m •. ; Mon., Nov. 6\'\A slide lecture Sat. and~Sun., 1-4 p.m.; Thurs on Douglas Baldwin Ceramic 'ti18 p.m. For further info. call Art will ~o on in the Rathbone 457~3375. ' c~ SCEJ reun BOB ROB B: y care. a.~B .yours B' N4 soul.. R: Y< didn't B: Do B: -y things R: Wl B:· Th me, w R: Yo tad. ·h~ B: I dl R: Y< realize being l B: I stt - R: I!i' B A chill two-thii appearE spring , arenas Philad1 Coliseu almost crowds. His r been Sl entranc• large p; success StrangE more th Still a some fi reached right. s· Way Yt ballad iJ and cont \Only t: \The ~ Joel's ~ll trendse· music~ Now, l up work almost a not enlll acceptar time COl that are1 Reg arc \52ndStJ certain populari peopleh~ if Billy fonnancc That f~ by the ~ first shiJ store oft displaye< initial su copies w~ end, Compll Stranger 1 albums i

OQNOOBDIIiJNSlS, November B, 1978 Page 7 - cuttu - Alu~mni Picnic . . by WILLIE NILLIE SCENE: -Two former buddies reunite for one final send-off. :8013: How do you do? , - ROB: What do you care? B: You were my ~friend, so I - care. R:. Bull; You only care about .yourself. : 13, Not so. I have a 'beneficent soul. ... R: Your soul' is black. I wish I didn 1 t know you. B: Don't sar that. I'm your pal. R: I'd rather have a hernia. B: You shouldn't say such things! .. R: Who says? _you? · B :· The insult was directed at me, wasn't it? R: You could say that, if you 11ad. ·half a mind. B: I didrt't flunk out of college·. R: You ~were too · stupid to B: I had a girlfriend.-you got drunk R: She haa a chest like the Grand Canyon. B: I thought she was very beautiful. R:- You'd drink dishwater and can it lemonade. B: This 'iS going nowhere. -~ ~ R: Like your .life. How are the· kids? Still brats? · bit .off yoUr butt you'd· say be rnistaok you for a beehive. B: Kiss off. R: That's the spirit. Be nasty. If you don't no one'll do it :for you. B: I'm not getting n~sty. I am a eivil human being. R: Then build a bomb shelter to protect yourself from the reds. But that would be hypocritical, bEing that your mother's a commie:- B: Bob Junior is maturlngtnto a_ B: She's not a commie. She flne young man. belli-eves -in equal wealth , distribution, that's all. R: He'S probably. queer. -B: Not so! He's just having a few prob~~s. R: Sure; Everyone goes through a dog screwil}.g stage .. B: You're crttel. R: I ~pity·you. B: Do you? R: You're stuck in a rut and you can't get .out. · B: I'm happy witn ·ufe. R : Thafs what she said to me the last time she came d<Jwn to see me at work. B: Where do you work? R: The unemploYTQ~nt office. B: )'hat's not funny!. R: )'4ore like 'sad but true,' eh? B: Heathen. R: S.orty. realize how much terd you were - R: I gyess yo1,1r house burning being fed. · down didn't faze you one bit.- (PAUSE) R: Oh, yt>U ate so misguided. B: And who guided you? B: I studied-you goofed off. B: Bad luck, that's all. - R: Iiived-you whacked off. R: Bad luck my foot. If a bear R: Ray Chambers-'54. Uatitled He carried her as far as the present light would show, and left her silent silv:er tears streaming in her hEart. Her dreams s!ept·wt· realized when :he failed to awaken to her thoughts then- ~Mockingly, he followed the path she once trod; impressing upon ller what stre\ had once shown him. And her mind asked why? And the dreamer had no answer. ~ ALG ·art,; Please submit all poems for Fine Lines to Box 13&, Jan De Deka, Fine Lines Editor. (Poems can be anonymous if you want.) B: I remember him. He flunked out. ,_ R: Now he's president of G.E. B: You don't .say! ... R: No I farted those words. Jerk. B: I think I've had enough and shall spend my time elsewhere. For your sake, I hope your temperament improves. Good night. R: One last thing. B: Yes? R: I hope this one's a son. Keep your head up·! B: Righto ... Huh?? (Much Confusion and finally, EXIT) END. (Spaces represent rain delay.) _ Billy Joel Triumphs On •s2nd Street' by JIM DAVIS Achilles Rink was only about two-thirds full when Billy Joel appeared here-in concert in the spring of 1977. Now; he plays arenas like the Spectrwn in Philad-elphia and Nassau Coliseum in Long Island-- almost always to seU;out crowds. . , . His ·rise in- popularity has been spectacular. And Joel's entrance to the limelight has, in large part, been lirtked to the success of one aibum-.\The - Stranger\--released. a little more than a year ago.. - Still a best seller, it contains some five singles that have reached tb,e top ten in their own. right. Starting with ''Just the Way You Are,\ a romantic ballad in the Classic tradition, and continuing with such h.its as \Only the Good Die Young/' \The Stranger\ cemented Joel's ~plac.e · as a legitimate trendsetter in contemporary music. Now, he's released a follow- up work, \52nd Street~• that is almost a sure bet to continue, if not enlarge upon, his public acceptance, and at the same time contains some elements that are new to the artist's style. Regardless of its quality, \52nd Street\ was guarantee(( a certain amou.nt of initial popularity because lots of people have been amdous to see if Billy could match hls per- formance on \The Stranger.\ That fact was borne £1ut here by the immediate rW1 on ·the first shipment to the campus store of his latest release. First displayed last Monday, the initial supply- Qf abOut a dozen copies was exhausted by week's end. Comparison with \The Stranger\ aod other previous albums is inevitable, but it is unfair and unnecessary as well. For ~in \52nd Street,\ Joel in- corporates a number of new dimensions Into his per· formance., wbile still retaining the essential aspects that have won him acclaim. Those who were enamored by \The Stranger'' may well be disappointed. That album had a strong tinge of conunericialism about it and, indeed, many of his hard-core followers--the ones who liked Billy for the cavalier attitude he displayed in such tunes as \Captain Jack\ and ·\'l'he Entertainer\ ... were miffed with \The Stranger\ for just that reason. .. If there's one thing \52nd Street., can't be accused of, it's being commercial. In fact, with tbe exception of the tttle track, the l~ngth of the album's nine songs alone wouJd be a hin· drance to their achieving top 10 success. · The albwn cuts range, in length up to six-and-a-.half minuteS'\ but. they're- worth listening to; .Although their popUlarity .may not embrace individuals with strictly, top 40 tastes, there's little doubt that- more than one of the tracks off \.52nd Street\ will .firtd its way to near the top of the charts. · \Big Shot\ leads off the first side, and, in both style and content, it's probably the most ·-representative example on the albwn of Billy's earlier style •. With lyrics like ''You went- uptown riding irt our .limousine- In your fine Park Avenue clothes-You had the Dom. Perignon ·in yow- hand• And the spoon up your nose;'' this tune speaks of an experience that, if not common to· all its listeners on a first-hand basis, is at least recognizable by association. -The tune's ~rash attitude is heightened bY tbe way it's pf:rformed. The back-ups are tight and confident, and Joel dictates the song's flow with his lead vocals. \Big Shot\ hangs tough, and for the four minutes thatit runs, listeners ar.epart of the tough, street-smart world it considers. Similar . comments can be made about a number of Qtller cuts. One of them, HZanzihar;\ while perhaps not the most notable in strictly musical terms, is destined to become a classic on the .stren_gth of its lyrics. , One of the most recognizable elements of Billy's style has been--his ability to draw the material for his compositions from personal experience. ·· Listeners to ''Scenes from an '· Italian Restaurant\ recognize this, and on \52nd Street\ if's most obvious in ''Zanzibar.\ Z!lntibar ~a bar, one where Joel is \just· another face.\ TII.e .scene · is set in the lyrics' operung.lines.The bar's. TV must · be on, because '' ~ dances and the crowd -appaluds.\ Joel, a spirited New York Y~nkee fan, also takes time ,tc mention them, but he also notes that he's \just_ trying to_getto · secbnd base\ with a bar waitress there. · So the classic portions ()f _ Billy's style are amply ' represented on ''52nd StreeV' But he's not content to st<)p there, to rest on his laurels as it were. · Joel, the \Piano Man\ gained a large measure of his initial notoriety on the basis of bis keyboard skills. Somewhat unconv.ential, they nonetbeless were the reason for many fans• · allegiance. On \The Stranger,'\ those distinctive riffs were .notably absent in ·most tracks. While none of the cuts on. ''52nd Street\ are in- strwnentals1 a ~umber of them do contaih strong Instrumental backings. There's an element of jazz in the albwn, an almost south-of:.the-border air. Some critics might not be too impressed. But Joel, judging from the self-sure manner he performs the album, as well as the way in which he stares out in NYPIRG ••. Continued from page 4 Free copies of the ''Guide to the Small Claims Court\ are available at the Court Clerk's office in Albany City Hall, or from the Small Claims Action Center, 134 Franklin Street, Albany, N:· Y. 12202. NYPUW is a non•profit, non- partisan consumer research Seniors ... the picture on its cover, seems to have adopted a devil·may- care-I'm-going-to-perform-s- ongs-the·way-I-want·to ~ attit- ·ucte. And, with \52nd Street,\ he shouldn't have any reason to doubt his skills or success. and advocacy organization. The Small Claims Action Center is a joint project of Centro Civico Hispano Americano, Inc. and NYPIRG. Its purpose is to aid consumers in understanding and using the Small Claims Court system more effectively and efficiently to. .remedy consumer problems. The action center's hotlirte is 465-1138, and it is open from no()n to 5 p.m. · Monday through Friday. An MBA at NYU? ' Located in the business and fi.nancial capital of the world, Naw York University has the natio:1's largest private Graduate School of Business Administration. D.eborah Harris can discuss the possibilities there for _ you on Wednesday, November 8 when she visits the campus. Placement and Career Counseling has program informatior and a sign-up schedule. That's Wednesday, N~vember 8! It's your future Consider the possibilities . NYU is an equal opportunity institution. .. .• .._I

Page 8 ·OONOORDJENSISJ Nove.m'f)er e .. 19\18 1 '2 • JJ:: .. i2 :--~--~----------------------------~-- U • C • . . .N· . . ' 1 8. • . f ·. naon , omm1ttee· ews ~n • r1e Plalllling and Priorities The budget was the major topic of. discussion when the Planning and Priorities com- mittee held its bimonthly meeting. There seemed to be no major surprises in the proposed budgetfor 1979, yet it was noted that there is a smaller allotment of surplus funds for student tuition. The proposed budget · calls for an enrollment of 1940 day students, however funds include the folloW:ing: frater- nities and sororities-defining their roles in buSiness and contractual matters, ex~ation of the college's role ·in Greek assistance and the role the administration plays in relations with campus fraternities and sororities. · · In the area af business and contractual matters the com- mittee seeks . to establish a• policy for equitable . debt for , continued college recognition of · eldsting fratemities and sororities will be developed. The rights of independents within the hlmse will also be a topic of scl\utiny. in defining the role the,c:ollege will play in assistance to the Greek system, the committee is investigating possibilities of stand.a·rdizing elections and rush timetables from- house to I / , house. A suggestien has been made for the. ·formation of a Greek AlUmni Council to aid. the Pan-Hellenic CotincU · and in- dividual houses. Investigation will also center upon methods for better coordination of Greek and independent social event scheduling as well as establishing the nature, if any, of college support of the Pan- Hellenic Council. Suggestions .may he for- warded to any member of the Student Life committee or the Student Activiti~s office. Social Committee Still beaming from the .suc- cess of the · Nightclub, the · members of the Social com- mittee wauld like to thank ail those involved ih making their-~ first Nightclub a successful one. Committee Appointn~ents FILM Sharon Berliner Lorraine Bohanske (Asst. Chairperson). Kathy Dome Stu Hannas Ann Isaacs . 1 • Doug Koch (Co-Chairperson) Felicia. Wilion. Dave Zuckerbraun Jeff, Siegal Mike' Skliar Brian Durr Tom StegemaQn Bonnie Blackman Lisa Klein Ali Waltch / Cindy VI anina (Co-Chairperson) . PUBLIC RELATIONS Jim Davis Cheryl Parker Doreen Blake · Randy Klein Alan Swire Mike Stockman Ken Gold ·Gary Glauber Laura Masailo CONCERT Rob Cohen Judy Kottke Andrew MacEntee Kevin Moore Michael Pianin Beth Sullivan Jeff Winter (Chairperson.) Biil Friedman Katie Martin (Social ·Com. Rep.) - Dan Payne Tom Talbott Pete Charkalis Rich Strauss Dana Thau Linda Lohner 'GRADUATE STUDIES James Kitler · Dan Lacoff Student Forum Committe~s COMMITTEE ON COM- l\UTTEES Randy Feldman (Cha.irperson) Murray Levison David 0' CPnnor Mandy Phillips (member-at- large) Ken Plumb Continued in next issue ~ SECURITY !Buy Your Record at t:he Campus Storel This Week 1 s New Arriv~ls lnc.lude: ~ If Laurie Colligan ;._.;; David Marker Mr. Joe Zolner, Director of Student Devel 9 pment and Assistant Richard Simons Dean of Students. , are available to (!over costs if enrolhnent should drop as low as 1910 day students. Any drop below this point, however, could cause a problem in the balan,. cing of the budget funds. · The Dean of Student's budget showed ll: major rise over last year due to the addition of SUI'plus funds to supplement the cost of Parent's Weekend. Recruiting expenses have also Shown a marked increase over the past years due to the major turnovers in Union's administrative positions. It was also noted that expenses have incr~ased due to attempts being made to recruit faculty members and administrators from a national rather than regional pool. Members of the Planning- and Priorities com- mittee feel this increase is necessary in order for Union to recruit the best qualified people to fill vacancies. · Student Life Committee At the present time the Student Life committee Under the direction of Chairperson Lisa Kat~. has created four ad hoc committees which will examine different aspects of student life at Union. The committees formed to date will deal with topics such as food facilities, vandali!ffil, course information and fratel'nity and sorority relaticms. According to Lisa, official reports from these ad hoc cofi111littees are not due until early next week. Any suggestions Jor these com- mittees should be referred to Lisa Katz or left in the_Student Activities office. Fraternity.Surority Ad Hoc Committee Under the direction of Joe Zolner, the Ad Hoc Committee on Fraternities and Sororities , has drawn llp a list of in.; vestigative topics. Formal investigation has already begun on these topics, and .will __ be presented to the Student Life committee in .two weeks. The Ad Hoc committee ·hopes to cover three major areas in its investigation. These areas colleCtion from the fraternities and sororities. The articulation of a maintenance policy will also. occur undtw the Ad :SoG - collliliittee's plan. The com- mittee will also try to determine STANDING OF STUDENTS Robert Rosenfeld · a policy by ,wh~gh the ownership of furnishings in the hous.es will clearly be established. David .Sjegel Rich DtNall SUPPORTIVE SERVICES Neil Kanner Abdoulai Swareh Ivette Mesa CONDUCT OMBUDSMAN William Barnett David Becker Cary Feuertnan Charles Hoffman Rights of privacy limitations will be investigated by the committee as well as the establishment of a· \responsible party'' to serve the fraternities and sororities in their negotiations with the college. Lisa Katz (Chairperson of Student Life) Regan Krutick . _ In administrative areas it is hoped that a written policy can be developed for the establish- ment of new fraternities and sororities. At the same time, establishment of reqUirements Chris McCarty (Chairperson) Steve Miles D~ug Spector COLLEGE CENTER Deb Damrell (Chairperson) PREPARE FOR: .. 40th] · lou.- ;D. MCIT • OAT ·lSI I · GMAT · v.~, J ORE •'OCAT ·Ill~ SAT Flexible Programs & Hours ..,ere IS a differen~e!!l _ Albany Center ~ .. -.fl · 163 De_. laware Ave. · . .,._ · N. · · · Delmar · · lVI. · . ( EDUCATIONAL CENTER phone 518) 439-8146 · TEST PREPARATION SPECIALISTS SINCE 193a Outside N.Y. State OnfYCAU TOll FREE: 800·12H782 Centers In Maior US Cities Toronto, Puerto Rlc::o and Lug~no, Switzerland \I -·What makes eating fine food even · ~~re enjoyable? Hoving 10% ·cut off your bill!; . .. At CHINA GARDEN we'll give Union students fine food and a 1 0% discount ' off the biU \ CAihll ~li,.t/en Mandar-in Szechuar1 Huhan - ?2eJtauzant - Catones~ 102BState St., Schenectady, N.Y.. Tel (518) 370-0160 Banquet Fac:llitles ·Takeout Orders Does not apply to take-out . 1-Southside Johnny and the Asbury Jukes-THIS TIME IT'S • FOR REAL , 2-Styx-PIE.CE SOF EIGHT . , 3-Liftle Rivet' Band-SLJEEPER CATCHER 4-SOUNDTRA.CK OF 'NATIONAL LAMPOON'S ANIMAL HOUSE 1 S~SOUNDTRACK OF THE RQCKY HORRO~ PICT!J'RE SHOW s:uggested Buys Are: . J 1-BHiy Joel-52nd STREET 2-David Bo-wie-STAGE _3-Unda Ronstadt-LIV[NG IN THE U.S.A. 4-Donrra. Summer-LIVE AND MORE 's-Oan Fogelberg and Tim. Weisburg.TWIN SONS OF DIF- FERENT M-oTHERS . . SAVE, SAVE, SAVE .•. REMEMBER THAT YOU CAN. BUY 3 SPECIAL SALE RECORDS AT 2.49 ON FRIDAYS AND GET ONE FOR FREEl! ; CATAtOG of COLLEGIATE RESEARCH Over 10.000 listings! All subjects. Send NOW for this.FREE catalog. (o·ffer exp1res Dec 31. 1978) Send to: COL,LEGIATE RESEARCH 11' P.O. Box 84396. Los Angeles. CA. 90073 .. The Social Committee Presents Saturday, November 4th ··~Vassar College Beer F~sf.lf ·- Live Ente.rtainme.nt! · . - 40 different Varieties of Imported Beer! catered by the Areas Finest Re}5taorants , . . - $2.00 covers Admission ancl Transportation. Tickets available'ln the student activities office. Buses leave Union at l:OO p.hl. Buses return. to Union_ .10:00 . p.m. · Saturday, .. N:ovember 11th ~Country S(Juore ··Dance ~ • Punch and Munchies - .75c ·- Foot-stompihg,. partner swinging music ·Old Chapel • Begins 9:~0 I' ' \Th Uni< X· M Ea: . coopE State spom \Med .Ko< provi1 forb cross· awar tifica speci skiied Meda 150 [ miles. in sign reach .1500 Ii In • Koda~ skier': can progr respo reco.r1 \Med1 every! This easy f ticipat inforrr attach camp1 thrOUI cludin1 dotoe1 forma it's po: Glt Con1 sity. Tl was p Festive: probab gatheri the Un1 Bym the ·fir: Glee 0 over tl heardn Blue 1\ over W one of York C: lieard l over N with F Pennsy had fr over· WI in 1948~ only col United broadc~ The forman1 Club Noveml CollegE ~em or Hiatt, c Glee CJ groups: The t GleeClt of the YE it· visib during academ The g century MWldi\ \How 1 Place,': German The ! perform the Wes beeninv of ev-ent This i! year ur Prof esse The 5 chorus, perforn academi

\' OONOOBDIENSIS, November e. 1978 Tourney Set · ThiS Saturday, November 4, Union will be hosting the X-Country Medals Eastman Kodak Company, In District 4 Volleyball Tour- nament. Ten teams will be participating in the event. Seeded first is h(st year's winner, Russell Sage, sue- Oneonta is second, SUNY- Albany is third and' We.st Point is seeded fourth. Rounding out the draw are Mercy, Siena, SUC:·Plattsbur-gh, SUC-New Paltz, King's College and Union. . cooperatiqn with the United State& Ski AssoCiation, is sponsoring its 5th · annual \Medals For Miles\ program . . Kodak 1 'Medals ·For Miles\ The teams will play dou.ble provides an excellent incentive elimination competition . until for both new and experienced two top teams emerge. These cross-country skiers. Skiers are· teams will go on to compete at awarded medals and CCI'· SUC-Cortland in the State tificates for reaching a Competition on November 10 specified number of miles and 11. skiied over the season: Bronze Union Coach Lynn Barta Medal-75 miles, Silver Medal-.· thinks tne tournament is up for 150 miles, Gold Medal·- 30 0 grabsthisyear since most of the miles.. A special performance insignia is awarded to· peo __ ple teams are comparable in ability. \The play _should be reaching the 500, 750, 1000 or excittng and of high cllliber.\ ·1500 Ihile.-IPark. . . Coach Barta also emphasized Page 9 . In a!idttl?n to the awards, the · fact , that Union's team K~da~ provtdes a cross~~~untry - ~>hould be able to pl~ce ·very skiers log bdok so partl~tpan~_s high in the competition. can keep _ track of then · · · · , progress. Each skier is, The 'tournament runs from 8 responsible for correctly ··a.m. to 5 p.m. There will be a recording his-her miles. reception for the players and TODA Y'S THE DAY TO TURN TO WMHT-FM 89.1 \Medals For Miles\ is open to their parents following the every0cne and its free. event. The public is urged to great .music in stereo 24 hours a day This year Kodak is making it tt d a- en .. easy for coll~ge skiers to par· ticipate~ Posters with sign•up information and entry fonns attached are being put up on campus bulletin boards throughout the country in- cludingUnion. All anyone has to do to enter is complete the entry form and drop it in a mail box- it's postage free. Glee Club, Continued from page 1 sity. Tp.e concert in. Cambridge was part of the \Harvard Festival of Men's Choruses,\ probably the most exclusive gathering of male choruses in the United States. By no means, however, is this the ·first time that the Men's Glee Club has been broadcast over the air. In· 1936, it was heard nation-wide over the NBC Blue Network and regionally over WJZ and WKBW. During one of its many trips to New York City, the group was again Iieard by all Amer.ica in 1942 over NBC on \College Night\ with Fred Waring · and his Pennsylvanians. The, Glee Club had frequent perform~ces over· WGY of Schenectady, and in 1948, it became perhaps the only college singing group in the United States to be regularly broadcast over radio. The next. on .. campus per-· formance of tne Men's Glee Club will be Saturday, November 18~ with the Smith College Glee Club, in the Memorial Chapel. • Iva Dee Hiatt, ccmductor of the · Smith Glee Club, will lead the two groups in the Bach Magnificat. TheUnion College Women's Glee Club will make its first trip of the year on Nov. 4 and 5 when it· visits West Point to sing during a service in \. the academy's cadet chapel. The group will. sing the 16th- century motet \Regnum Mundi\ by Jacob Han<ll, and \How Lovely is Thy Dwelling Place\ from Brahms' \A ' . German Requiem.'' The glee club, which will perform other selections with the West Point Choir, has- also been invited to attend a number of events during the weekend. This is the glee club's second Year under the direction of Professol\__Hugh Allen Wilson. The 55-member women's chorus will give about a dozen performances during the academic year. If you're a junior or a senior majoring in math, physics or engineering, theN avy has a program you should know about. It's ·called the Nuclear Propulsion Officer Candidate- Collegiate Program (NUPOC-C for short) and if you qualify, . \ . you can earn as much as $650 a month right through your senior year. Then after 16 weeks of Officer Candidate School, you'll receive an additional year of advanced technical education. This would cost you thousands jn a civilian school, but in ~he---Navy,~we pay you. And at the end of the year of training, you'll receive a $3,090 cash bonus. ·It isn't e~sy. There are fewer than 400 openings and only one of every six applicants will be selected. But if you make ·it, you'll have qualified for an elite engineering training program. With unequaled hands-on r~sponsibility, a $24,000 salary in four years, and gilt-edged qualifications for jobs in private industry should you decide to leave the Navy later. (But we don't think you'll want to.) Ask your placement_ officer to set up- an interview with a NavY representative when he visits the campus on Nov. 2-3, or contact your Navy representative at 5 18 4 7 2-4424 (collect). If you prefer, send your resume to the Na'\Y Nuclear Officer Program, Code312-B537, 4015 Wilson Blvd., Arlington, Va. 22203, and a Navy representative will contact you directly. The NUPOC-Collegiate Progr~. It can do more than help you finish college: it can lead to an exciting career opportunity. NAVY OFFICER.- 11'5 NOT JUST AJOB, IT'S AN ADVENTURE. ~.·

) classifi.eos BULLETIN BOARD The National Institute of Mental Health is conducting a survey of college students, faculty, staff and ad- ministrators. Volunteers from any of these group$ who feel they possess common sense are urged to contact Mr. T. Paine, c-o Five Points Bear Pit. ATTENTION SENIORS: · Make-tip date for senior pic- tures will be Nov. 8. Please sign up in Stude~t Activities Office now. Public Notice: Would the person or persons owning the case of Beefeater Extra Dry please collect said package at Nott Memorial C.O.D. F.O.B. N.Y.S. Sales Tax applies. The Grad~te Management Admissien Test GMAT) will be 1 . · offered on October 28, 1978 andi on January 21, March 17 and : JUly 7, 1979. 'Ihe GM.AT is a test of academic aptitude designed to estimate an applicant's promise to succeed in a program of graduate study· · leading to an MBA or eq\li.valent • degree. About 530 graduate E .. E. 's for Pr:oduction Engineering, Product Engineering, and Manufac- turing Development. Sign-ups will be. on Friday, November 3 at 1:30 p.m, in the Placement Office. The following law school representatives will be available at the following times and places: Nov. 10, 9:3tH1 a.m.-Boston University (Prof. Richard Pearson) in Social Sciences Bldg. Rm. 110. Nov: 22, to-12 a.m.-Franklin Pierce Law Center {Jim Long) in Phi Beta Kappa Room, Library. Come to the Union- Hamiltlt!l football ga,me at Hamm Jn in Clinton, N.Y.- Saturdav Nov. 11. Rouna-trip bus ride and_illl the beer you can drink for only $4. Sponso: <!d by the brothers of Delta lt-silon. Contact Tom Flynn at 382-9272 .for reser• vations or information. Sigma Phi is offering a five and-or ten meal .plan .for the remaining weeks of fall term, and for winter term as well. For more information on good food at competitive prices, call Jim . schools of management require their applicants to submit GMAT results. · Loree or Chip Baker at 382-9225. Registration materials for the test and the GMAT :Qulletin of Information are available locally from Josephine F. · Morecroft, AssiStant Director, 1 AM, Bailey Hall, Room 206, or by writing to GMAT, Educational Testing Service, Box 966, Princeton, New Jersey 08541. Aetna Llfe & Casualty will be recruiting on Tuesday, November 21 for December graduates only. Electrical Engineers for Engineering positions and for any major that would be interested in un- derwriting. Sign-ups will be in the Placement Office on November 10 at 9:30. The Placement Office has information on the University of Chicago Graduate Library School Scholarships & Fellowships for 1979-80. We have application forms for the California Senate Fellowship Program. Seniors are eligible,to apply~ It is a one- year appointment paying $822.00 monthly. Please contact the Placement Office for fur· ther information. Oppol1unities m Personnel: Have you considered Personnel as a diverse creative field with a wide range of opportunities? The Office ·of Placement and Career Resources in con- junction with the English and Psychology Departments are organ~ing a program to be held on Wednesday, November 8, at 4:00 p.m. in straus11 Lounge. The purpose of the program is .. to expose any majors to the variety of opportunities in Personnel in both private and public sectors. The panelists are: Dr. Alvin Bernstein--General Electric Co., Undergraduate degree in Psychology; Ms. Bonny Cawley--Dept. of Tran- sportation, N.Y.S., BA in English; Mr. George Richards- Union College, BA in Philosophy. They will be happy to answer your questions. Hope we see you there! P .S. Free Refreshments. Attention Seniors: Rochester Products will be recruiting on Friday, November _17 for E.E.'s, M.E.'s and I.E.'s for Manufacturing Supervision positions and for M.E.'s and .Bon Apetit 1 · Three MBA Admission Forums are being offered during the fall of 1978 under the sponsorship of the Graduate M.anagement Admission Council and the Association of MBA Executives to assist students and working peoplt! to learn more about· graduate management ed.ucation. Prospective applicants will be · able to talk with admissions . representatives about .ad- mission procedures, curricull,lDl offerQ1gs, financial aid and placement and career op· portunities in management, In addition, workshops .!ire scheduled during which such panelists as admission direc- tors, recruiters, placement officers, and recent MBA graduates will address the question: \Will an MBA degree help me qualify foF the management career that I want?\ The 1978 forum will be held in Boston: 57 Park Plaza (Howard Johnson's),. 200 Stuart Street. November 17-noon to 7 p.m.; November 18-10 a.m.-4 p.m. There is a $2 admission charge. For complete in· formation write or telephone: MBA AdmissionsForwns, P.O. aox 5257, Grand Central Station, New York, NY 10017 (212-682-4176 ). CAMPUS CALENDAR l'i;J:.J!) \of . r A ' CABARET THIS WUK .•• 1st Act-Bill Coury-jazz anti folk pianist 2nd Act to be announced. All tickets are $1.00 and will be on sale beginning at 8': 00 in the front hall of Carnegie. The Tri-Cities Scandinavian Forilm and the Union College Departments of Language and Literature will sponsor a lec- ture by Professor Einar Haugen in Strauss Loung~, Student Building, at 8 p.m. on November 3. Dr. Haugen 1 who is~- Professor Emeritus at Harvard University, Will speak on \Henrik Ibsen, A Dramatist for All Seasons.\ Profes:wr Haugen is widely regarded as the most eminent American authority on the :Sca.ndinavian lang\lages. He was educated at .St. Olaf College · and the University ()f Illinois. He has received a nwnber of · honorary degrees· fr;-om . American and foreign universities, and. been decorated by both the Swedish and Norwegian governtnents. He. has taught at the University of Wisconsin, has been a cultural attache at the American Embassy in Oslo., and • the recipient of Fulbright; Guggenheim and National Endowment for the Humanities Fellowships. He is the author of many hooks and ar.ticles on language and literatare. The Union Hockey team has its first game with Colgate ·On November 4th at Achilles Rink. The Block U Society and the Achilles Figure Skating Club are handling this game. The procee~ will go to bOth clubs to · benefit their overall athletic program. Tickets at $4.00 may be bought .at the rink beginning Saturday, October 21st during the following hoqrs: . Weekends: 7 a.m .• t2 .p.m. and 5 p-.m.-8 p.m. Weekdays: 11:30 a~m.-3 p.m·. and 4:30 p;m.1:30 p.m. Friday Evening: 8:30 p.in;·lO p.m. . There will be a figlll'e skating exhibition between both p~riods. Our hope is that you !iP. come and show •sUpport for Union.Callege spgrts. If you have any questions, please call ·us. · Marty Morrison...;Block U- 370-6284 Becky Kershner-·Achi:ites F.S.C.-372-6681. SEE YOU THERE! Dr. and Mrs. Rudy Nrdegger, who are co-authoring a book, will discuss ''Raising Kids I~;n't Necessarily A Terminal Disease'' at Delta Gamma, November 7, 1978 at 7:30p.m. All are_ welcome. Colossal Chess Tcnunament ... Beginning November . 7th. Contestants from England, France, Germany and the U.S. Spectators welcome. Call 370. 6158 for information. Health Society PJ.eeting Nov. 7, 4:30 p.m. in room 204, Butterfield Hall. Dr. Roth will talk with juniors and seniors. Freshmen and sophomores are urged to come because programs concerning you will be discussed. · Following the meeting, Mitch Singer, ~ recent graduate; will talk about foreign medical schaols. Political Forwn is sponsoring an Election Night Party on November 7th at 9 ·P-Ill• in the SoCial Science Faculty Lounge. Free beer and munchies will be served. All are invited to attend. Benjamin Labaree, Ephraim Williams ~ Professor of · American HiStory at Williams College, will be holding an open meettng for interested. students on the program ,. American Maritime Studies.\ This program · is directed by Professor Labaree at Mystic Seaport, Connecticut, under the aegis of Williams C()llege, and will be granted credit by Union College; it will run during the Fall Term 1979, September 2 to December UJ. The meeting will be hel<l in the Dean's Conference Room, . Science and Engineering· 8100, at 4:15p.m. ProfesS()!-; Labaree will be showing slides of the program which is now in its second year. Fran Messina, '79, attended the program in 1977. If ybu have interests in any area of maritime studies 1 -please attend the meetiiig and let the . Dean of Faculty,. Paula Brownlee (X6233), know of your interest. CUrling. Open House!--8at., Nov. U; 1,;4 p.m. rocated downstairs in Achilles Rink. There will be curling exhibition games throughout the afternoon and plenty of opportunity to try curling yourself. Wear a sweater and loose pants and .bring an extra pair of sneakers and gloves with you. . Even if you're not interested in .trying it, come down and watch. RIDE BOARD Ride wanted to Poughkeepsie . leaving Friday, Nov. 3. Contact · Chuck at 37o-6401. Ride needed to Cornell University. Fridc:~y, Nov. 10. Will share expense!'!. Please contact-:-Dana at 6702. Ride wanted to Boston, Nov. 10, for two pe(lple. CaU Jennifer ~t 370-6702. LETTER Mrs. Lorraine Marra Student Activities Office Union College Schenectady, New York 1~08 Dear Lorraine: The people on _this qampus have a lot ·of different talents. We have· people . who write critically acclaimed books, who fly planes; who climb rocks, who conduct intricate scientific research, .and Who . speak German. Nowl· l!leiYbe you're thinking ·:. A very special 'thank you for · that you . just might like the · yol.lr har.d work in coordinating chance to become competent at · the twp-day bloodmobile at things like these. Well, I can't Union College.· I believe we are help you with; the book or the making:.beadway now and hope . planeortherocksorthelab; but tb.e enthusiasm continues. . if you would like to use your.,.· Friday was a great day: •. German,. my friend,. have I got • · Again, thank you, f(n: your . ·'news for you! . · . continuous cooperation with · You (and that means you, Red. Cross Blood Services. We'll bonzo, whether you are faculty look forward to working with or staff or stud~nt) are invited · J PI to the ·Pub eve. ry· .·· Tuesd. ay at . you. m · anuar.y. · · ease. express my thanks to all who helped on • 4 :31) and every Thursday at the bloodmobiles, including the 12:30 to push a few tables :donors-. You are all terdfic! . together and sit ·around and speak Getman. Come sit... with WJ; .maybe have il' beer or a · sandwich, it's bound to be fWl. We've been having people wl}os~_language ability ranges from ·native speakers to those· who do not find it so easy. But, of _....com;se, beer is the great equal~er. So come and join us! Als 1 dann, his Dennersta~ .•. VVA_NTED Wanted: Tom Paine, for . sedition and treason, whose wh'ereabouts are known to be in the vicinity of Five Poiiits. All .persons having information are · orderedto come forth. Reward. By Order General Burgoyne FOR SALE . For Sale: By the barrel. Cheap. Lightning fast gin. • Mothers swear by it. Kiddies shut their foul mouths for it. Tty a can for courage. For Sale: Portable Smith- Corona manual,typewriter (like new). Please can 346-0945. $30; LOST Lost: 'Ibursday, Oct.· 26th. A • gold. bracelet. It is a thin cbain witll a solid band in the middle. If .found please contact Lynn at . 681~. . Missing: Three, large, ferocious bears. Last seen- vicinity _ Nott Memorial. Approach with caution. Persons with information should contact Proprietor, Five Points Bear 'Pit,· Nott Memorial. Lost: An orange folder of Women's Glee Club music. If found 1 please contact 370-6883 or returrl tomusic~office in the arts ·bl.lilding. Lost (Or accidentally taken) frotn Sigma Chi Saturday night: One jean- jacket, high sen- timental value. Please conte1ct Lee if found at 382-8625. ' . <' . Warmest personal regards, . · Alice M; Swanson DirectQr, Blood Services • ....... ·- . . . ·PERSONALS Dave--Would you like a · rubber for your nose? •From one Marp to another- MA!tP! Cathy-you look like you put on a little weight. HAPPY BIRTHDAY DEB- . BIE KLEIN!.! . Joey-are you a NURD?!? Gumper-Where did you get that name? · Le Flesche-;Hi! Cute cat-has she learnedtoplay.foosball yet? UC Men's Glee Club-GREAT CONCERT!! UC Women's Glee Club·- . · Ready for a hot weekend at West Point? UC Football Team...SUPER game on Saturday--Your traveling fans · There will be a Layout · · Training Session on . Monday, November 6 .for all those ~ople · interested in working on: UNION. BOOK at 7:30 in the Union Book room, 3rd flQor carnegie Hall. Lorraine--How was your weekend? We'll have to get together soon and compare notes!! ·Arvn--Whete did Gabriel learn his tricks? Judy-Nice mug. Does .Aron understand? But Jud, rabbits are happy. Schl'oeder-what a laugh! I Phylli$-nice pajamas. Prinya-· Watch falling.! out, it's GARBS: Be sure to include us in your n,eXt meeting.-r.eserve Garbs ana company., .PERS Peta' cookin browni1 Tlian and G• succeSf -·- .. Karel played --·-, Deb·· guessec politica have 1• 21st! A Order cepted . shirts-~ or-plum you act be emb the hac: Mois: outrage TheMa Steve not the Schm1 want-D. Terri· · Btrd, ri~ Gull:-\1 much m Ken-1 who's gt Baum come! . Happy in Union Quote trying tc O'Toole, Hey ki will st HalloweE Pam-1 Clare· you're st Jo-Did becomin! Dave--1 las cosas Jeff-st AuntN this wee~ Cookie· A.D. ·PI \Dee.Ma idea: -·· · Jeff--4 Fredette? ----- T.K. an~ JeffS:'\' Dad-Ha ya, K.J. 8 WE H:A' Nate-H Yo.u lost tl Nate-Yj Nate-HI to be kidd

I I . I .... ·~~-- -. OONOORDIENSIS; November ~~ 1978 Page 11 .PERSONALS Peta'-Tell-your Mom to start cooking . the Thanksgiving brownies now. -' .. Tli.anks to .all trench coat~ tie, and Garb lendees.. It was a success. Borrowees. Evet-yone--Thanks for tlfe greatest birthday! Nancy Attention Union Students: • only 7 wee~s til Christmas .and only -32 weeks til graduation .and counting! n lst floot Webster ..• Now hear this- Yaaaaa~h! ' Jim--Hi Honnee!--.Your Karen, Where~s my biscuit? I · \buddies'.; girl(rlend . played dead. Dog, ; Thank you everyone-- Deb--Who would have especially the second floor of guessed'-an engineer and a West College, for sa:i!ing your political science major could ·. pop (sod!!) can top~ f~r a -friend have lasted this long-Ha,ppy on a dialysis machllie. Your 21st! All my love, Jacqueline. · efforts are..greatly appreciated- Orders are now being acm cepted for Pi Sigma Alptta t- shirts-available in bebavioral or· pbenomenological models~if you act now your cuni. av. will' · be embossed free of charge on the back! · Mois: What an ~expt~ssion of outrage! Brilllant~ Hilarious!~ The Mad Bomber. Steve Grill-I'llget. over it, but not the Night Club too.-D.R. Schmertzie-We;lldo what we want-Dave . -Keep it up! Sue M-Who slept in rnY bed? Mindy B-Cheer up! It will get better-s~D SALAMANCA.IS GREAT!! A Heartbreak Continued from, page 5 Refusing to fold, Union moved allth~ way.from their own 22to -BUILD YOUR OWN the Wi:Hiams 30 before a desperation pass by Terranova was picked off with' only . seconds remaining. To list those players who played exceptionally would be of no benefit because the entire team p'erformed admirably only to have the stick fall on the short end once again. The defensive unit turned in another incredible pe.rformance limiting Williams to 252 ~ards in total offense., 92 of which came on the last drive. The Dutchmen need victories in .their last two games, this week at .·home against Middlehtlry and next week at .Hamilton if they are t9 reach the 500 mark for the season. Senofe~ .• Conti.nued from page 3 The proposal was then voted ripon and passed over- whelmingly. · The next order of business was a discussion of Proposal 136. This proposal.calls\for the addition of an eighth drafting conimittee to the Middle States Self-Study. This committee will study the topic. of students and student life_ Its major .focus will deal with undergraduates at U:nion, although graduate student life will also be examined. After minor discussiofl on the proposal, it was passed and the meeti.Ag was adjourned. I No Halloween . .. Continued from :pageS .sma~hin'g.\ Within hours, all of · the ghosts were destarched and ready for action. The last, and toughest, item on the list was getting the plll11pkins to take some time-off from thei·r restauranteuring and getting them to come back: and jack-o-lantern it. up for a night. The president of the Ptunpkin's Trade AssociaUon ( P:T,A.) was tracked~down and contacted at his ranch in Pq:_lm .Springs. ''Mr. Manyseeds, W-E ar.e asking you and your assoCiates to,come do Halloween.\ . npat'.s a mighty tall order, pard:ner. This is our on s-Eason, you know.\ \I know, I kliow. But couldn't you do just . one night, pleeaase?\ \Hmmm. You'll have to provide a bodyguard for each one of our members .. Too many of us are recklessly smashed eaeh year by bratty kidS with poor upbringing.\ \What? How is it going to look with a bodyguard next to every pumpkin? Preposterous! \Then I'll be wishing you a Merry Christmas . . . \ \Okay! Okay. We'll get you bodyguards.\ \That's what I like to hear . I'm sure the boys will be pleased with the news. It'll be a pleasure to do your Halloween. · \Thank you oh so much. You're one hell of a ... \Before the man could make a complete ass of himself and possibly reverse the President's decision, tne chief pump~ had fortunatelyhung up. As it stood, Halloween was now .ready to t~ke plac~. · ·EPILOGUE · \So how wa.s your Halloween, Johnny?\ \It was okay. We threw eggs at cars.\ \That's nice.\ Terri-NICE. COSTUME! Big, · Bird, right? · ' G~ll~I hate the U.S. Mail as much 'as yo'u do! ' .. · .• ' ·-'-..;.· BIO ·sCBBBN C0£0B TV. Ken-Things are good, it's me. · who's grouchy . .,....Jsobar · Baum--America here you come! • · Happy Halloween to everyone . in Union College. , ; ~· , , . Quote of the. Week: \Are you trying to bull\shit us?\-Brien O'Toole, Senior Stude_nt Trust~e Hey kids, the Great Pumpkin will strike -~again. (Next Sporting Euents Are. An Experiencr: As E.xc.iting As Being There! Movies Are Seen The \l'ay They Wel'e 1Heant To Be Seen! Pong And Other 'Video Gaf!!~s A.re More Exiting Than Ever! Can Be C.:sed With 'v'ideo Tape Play back Equipment! Halloween! ) \ Pam-I have a phone. Clare--It's good to know · you're still aliv_e. Jo-Did you .ever think of . becoming Chinese? Dave--No te preocupes sobre las cosas en tu mente. Sevilla. Jeff-shooting Stars? Aunt l'Iancy-Where were you this week? Cookie-NO BIG DEAL. . A.D. ·Phi-Nice-Party. ' Dee-1\ifarriageisri't such a bad idea: -· · '\- · ' · - Jeff~-4 kittens and Jeff Fredette? Jenny and Dee-you rate. ' · Jon.-so you finally got your $4. T.K. and Ernie are QUE;EFS! D.G.-seen any lost Rabbits mnning around campus-lately? Jeff S:'-WllAT A TRIP .. Dad-Happy Birthday. Love ya. K.J. & R.C. WE HAVE 200! .. Nate-How many voles have Yo.u lost this week? Nate- Your . voles hate you. Nate-Hip Glands? Youive got to be kidding! · # Simulated TV Reception .: I't :s Lik~ .. ~a~ing. -~'·,:'Movie The~t~;;, ;~ 1 \~r ii~-~~~ . ._,_,_. AMAZING $90:00 PROJECT_OR KI.T now only.~!?9.95 : .. ' ' ... ~' ~ • ~. __ ' '..- . t?-' ..... Imagine inviting frie~ds to see TV Sped~Is, !rlovie_s: Sp'brtsi- .. ~n :->~i?~~r ·T·Jre.~t~r ~~u;:TV;.! .I~'s ~ike viewi~g ~n a movie .scree!\! Everything tak.es on a .whole ~ew dtm~hston ... ~~~~~t\.tli!a:kes you ~~'~lhktr .Y~~ re ~~ the a~tton .. Can also hE' used out·doors, converting :YOUr h~ck yard mto an open-a1r Outdoor Theater! T>11s new Invention, g1ves sharp bdlliant TV reception comparable·to commercial projector sys~ems costing $2,&0() o~ mo.re .. Absolutely S,AFE ~o use .. No e~ectrical or mechanical connections to TV .. Removes II\ seeonds·for regular stze v1ewmg. No spec1al aenal required. Projects up to 5 x 6 foot pictures-(7% Ft. d~agonal) :\)~l wall o~ screen~, even Ln the smallest rooms or apartments. Best of _all, this amazing Projector is reall~ sunple and mex~en~tVe. to huld yourself .. ~vena 12-year old can do it quickly. Encl'osed Kit comes confplete W1th unbreakabJe hfet:me guaranteed PreCISIOn Lens System, 11\ x 17 '' illustrated Plans and Specifications and EASY ASSE:MBLY instructioll:s, All you supply is only some cardboard or wood for the simple cabinet. This Projector can he used· with ANY Portable TV set 7 •: to 25\ ,_and will enlarg.e pictures in either Color or Black & White. If you wish, here's an easy w~y to make money in ~our sparet.i~e. Simply assemble and sell these TV Projectors to your friends, neighbors, rE-Iattves, etc. Everyone With a Telev1s10n Set will .gl&dly pay you up to $-90.00 for each ProJector you build. Make up to $70.00 on each easy sale. Your cost, one kit. $29.95, two kits· $49.95, five'kits- $99.95. SALES MARKETING Dept. NP-7 P.O. Box 2646 M~r6ed, California 95340 Enclosed is $~~~~-- for ------Postpaid complete TV. PROJECTOlt KITS Name .. .... Address --~--~--------~~--------~--------------------------~------~----~~------- City / 1 State ------------------r-~----~------~-----~--- Zlp -~-----­ Offer expires October 22, 19 78

Page 12 ,- ·5port6 ~occer Keeps Moving by KAROL WJOTYLA The Union C-ollege Soccer team, looking stronger every vet1k, posted wins overtwo foes ranked ahead of them last veek. · Last Tuesday was the 4 'biggie'' as the Dutchmen 1raveled to Hamilton to play well.,regarded Division I foe C()lgate. The game started out as expected, a scrappy defensive match, and it would remainscorelessuntilll :40 was left in the first half. It was at this point that Dave Coutts of Colgate unleashed one of the hardest ·direct shots from 25 yards this veteran spectator. has ever, witnessed. The score at intertnission:\Colgate 1 - Union 0. But Bob Magee's boys came out for the second half with fire in their eyes. Their defense became a concrete wall and would not be scored upon in the second half. But wait! Would Union score in the second 'hal'f? Is the Pope Polish? With 40:40 left in the second half Keith Miller tied the score with a short shot on an assist from Jim Manning. Junior Jim StoothOff would give the Dutchmen the margin of victory with a pretty 25-yard direct shot. Another pressure-packed victory for Union. Ruggers 5-0 The Union College Rugby team\ racked up two more vidones in the last two weeks, with · convincing wins over Albany State and the Rome Rugby Club. The team now stands at an impressive 5-0 nark with two matches left in tl1e season. Union's fourth victory came with a 154l trom1ce of Albany State (earlier this year Union beat a shod;manned State team 3()-0). The first score carne when th.e ball popped out of a Union ruck-at the Albany 2-yard line, with first year rugger Matt Carley taking it in for the score. C()·captain Burt Slavin chipped .the kick up to ·make the score 6- '0. punched in a try; but missed the kick, leaving the score at 4-0. Union jumped back quickly when second year rugger Tony Ward dazzled the crowd with a twisting run for the try. It was Ward's first try in his rugby career. With the kick by Slavin, Union led the game 6-4. The score remained the same until the second half when \sure- footed\ Slavin showed his skill once more with a 20-yard penalty kick for an additional three points. Rome scored twice more on two kicks. However, the Union Ruggers were not silent as Dan May kicked two more through the goal posts to give the UColl men a 13-10 victory. This week'sgame may be the toughest challenge of the season as Union's only undefeated team travels to Colgate. This past Saturday would prove no easier as Marist strolled on to Daley Field. The Dutchmen, although a bit lacksadaisical at times, looked ~s thou~h they owned the game m the £1i:·st balf. Shot after shot was fired upon the Marist \keep'' :yet the Dutchmen were unable to notch a score. At intermission both teams walked of:f with \horse collars\ -s~owing on the board. The second half looked as if it would be the same. The Dut- chmen offense put on pressure continuousl_y and the defense was unyielding .. But with eight minutes left Jim Mann·ii1g settled into the left side to Pete Van Valkenburg who found .fi .: · ·-..\ '· .. , e ·· \·.: John Kovacs streakin. g down. E / •, .. •'\'\\'wX ~ ·\ ... the middle toward the goal; il <·· '' '\' ·'' ' ·· Kovac~ be~t tlie goalie. and -~--··.,vi)',':%\''~'·~uvt poked Jt home for t\le wmner. a 1£·r·' 1 .w,s;;;,\/'.~\'''~' But .M~u'i~t would be heard ~rom 11 agam. W1th about one tntnute · left, they began an onslaught J upon Union goalie Douggie Crawfordthat looked as though Junior Jim Stoo.thoff deftly dribbles downfield. Stoothoff was the it would bear fruit. T'nis became hero vs. Colg~te, ~coring th~ winning goaL even more apparent with a half- minute left when Crawford went to stop a cross and slipped to the ground. lVIarist found itself with a golden Qpportunity--but--it was not to be had. Fine blocks by Jamie Hilton, Mike Mulpeter and the Crossbar would preserve a 1-0 victory for the ])utchnlen. - Union, now 8 and 2, faces Binghamton November 1 and Oneonta on November 4. Should they win those two games, they have an excellent shot for an NCAA post-season birth. Uni<m- ·1et's support these guys·! They sure as hell have proven they deserve it! Get off your butts and out of the library for two hours this Wednesday and watch their last horne game. A Heartbreak \ In one· of their most impressive .~egan to turn things their way performances to date, the m the second half. Led by a determined Union gridders defense which would not yield gave up;a touchdown in the final an inch, Union found them- two minutes to powerful --selves_fu~consistently.good field Wjlliams College, losing a position and it was not long heartbreaker 11-8 in William- before the Dutchmen offense stown Mass. this past weekend. began to penetrate a Williams For a. low-scoring contest the defense which seemEd to bend game provide<} about as much. but never break. · excitement and enthusiasm as Starting on his , own 35; anyone could ask from a college \ Terronova, 21-37-3 for 182 yards, football game or for that matter manuevered the team deep into · any athletic event. Neither Williams territory beautifully team disguised tM fact that mixing the run ~nd the pass they shared a mutual hate for throughout the effort. With the each other as fierce competition drive finally stalled at the and .intense, aggressive hitting Williams 14 yard line, the The next score clune in the second period with bard-hitting Tom Talbot smashing a tough 1(1-yard run down the side line fClr the try. Slavin again made tile kic)t. · A booming 45-yard kick for three points by Dan May made the scoring final as the Union R.uggers once again showed their strength to a State team. Athletes were the order of the day. In an ,Garnet called upon kicker Jim obv-ious effort Jo avenge last · McDonald and the result was a years embarassing loss to the . 5-3 lead with 3:1>2 remaining in Eppmen at Alexander Field, the the third quarter as he split the Dutchmen came out hungry and uprights)rom 31 yards out. never gave up, showing a lot of The teams traded possessions Union'S toughest match of the rear, however, came against tile Rome team. The Rome . Ruggers mustered ten points against a Union team which had allowed only three points in four ()ther matches this season. Scoring opened as Rome A fifth place finish by Kevin Scheuer lead the Union cross- eountry team to , its highest finish ever in the prestigious Albany State Invitational last Saturday. Scheuer started out slowly in the 5.05 mile race, passing the rnile mark in 12th place. But as · the race progi\essed the captain of the Union squad methodically worked his way towards the front of tlle 115-man field and, utilizing his national caliber speed over the final half mile, finished 5th in 26.06.3. 1>4 seconds later, Jack Connor, the second of the Dutchmen harriers, cros~ed the finish line in 32nd place, leading a trio of Garnet runners across the finish line in a span of twelve seconds. Close on Connor's heels were Bryan Liss in 35th place and Pete Vielkind in the 37th position. Tom Hallenbeck, the team's fifth runner, added a 54th place finish to round' out the They may not get as much glory as some of the other athletes on campus, but Senior Rugby Co-captains Chip. Fenn and Burt Slavin certainly deserve recognition as this week's Athletes of the Week. The Rugby team this fall is _now 5.;(), boasting · the only un- defeated record on campus. scoring for the Dutchmen. Scheuer's high finish, combined with the close grouping of the remainder of the team, enabled the Union squad to finish 7th overall in the 16 team field with a score of 163 points. Ted Bick, the Union cross country coach, had nothing but praise for the team's per- formance in general and Scheuer's in particular. Bick felt that if the course had been a mile longer his star athlete could have possibly won the meet. He also believed that Scheuer's high finish in a competitive meet such as the ·Albany Invite was an indication of the slim $enior' s excellent · chances of winning the .state meet this Saturday. Union hOsts the Sta:te Championships in Central Park this Saturday with the 22-team varsity race scheduled to start ··· at noon. Even though Rugby is not a recognized varisty sport' here at Union, some of the fiercest competitipn you will ever see is displayed by the ruggers every week .. Fenn, who hails from Dalton; Ma., spent a term last year in Bath, England, and played \A\ team Rugby over there, quite an accomplishnlent for an American. Not only did he play, but he led aU scorers on the team. with 12 trys (similar to touchdowns). This year he has led a potent Garnet offense, . which is averaging over 20 points a game, · amazing for Rugby. Chip is also a fine student, posting a 3.3 cum as a Psych-13io major. · Slavin, from Erving, Ma., is the team's designated toe. He is an extremely accurate kicker, and has missed only one point- after·try this season. He was the squad's leading scorer last year, and may . duplicate the feat this season. Including both fall and spring seasons, this is Burt's seventh season of i:'ugging at UColl. His ex- tracurricular activities include beingtbe head of the UColl Mail Room. Aside. from being active as players, Chip and BW't act as coaches, ()rganizing and run- ning all practice sessions, aside from making sure that the squad is on tap for all home games. heart and a great deal of poise several times Wltil Terranova . especially in a .game marked by completely surprised the Eph- shoddy if not outright biased men by running 25 yards for a- officiating. • first down out of ·punt for• Williams scored first, taking mation. While the move gave advantage of some good early Union a. first down in Williams field position to drive deep into territory the Ephmen defense Union territory. The ])utchmen once again closed the door defense however, refused to be forcing McDonald to hit another beaten and the Ephmen were field goal this time from 32 forced to try a 31 yard field goal. yar<,ls out. The net result was The kick was successful giving Union 8 Williaros 3 With 7:59 to the home team a 34l lead and it go in the game. - looked for awhile as it might be The Dutchmen defense their only tally o.f the game as quickly got the ball back and the Union defensive completely Terranova began to lead the dominated the Ephmen offe(lse Garnet upfield in the hope of throughout most of the contest. putting the contest out of reach. With Williams' defense also Facing a fourth and one from sky high for the encounter, the their own 45 Union elected to Union offense found the going 'pWlt {he ball away. A beautiful tough as clutch defensive plays kick by Terranova put Williams or the officials flag stalled in the hole, down by 5 with orily every first half drive. In this 3~43 remaining . and the ball light it is not surprising that the resting on their own 8 yard line. Union defense would provide for Wiiliams wasn't to be beaten, the first points of the game. however, as freshmen quar .. Bottling up Williams deep in terback Bob Lutz began the their own territory the Garnet drive which would. leave the defense forced them to punt Dutchmen still without a win with 25 seconds remaining in against Williams Since 1968. The the half. The snap, however, '92 yard march took only six sailed over the ·head of kicker plays, three of Which were Rich Walters and when ·he passes to the Ephlilens star finally caught up to it he opted receiver Ken «Hollywood\ to kick it out .of his own end zone Hollingsworth. Halfback Greg away from the Dutchmen Collins busted in for the end pursujt. The maneuver cost zone from 8 yards out and Lutz Williams a safety but probably hit Hollingsworth' once again, saved a touchdown. this time for the two point Though still down 3-2 at the conversion and Union suddenly half the play provided Union found themselves ~own 11-8 with a substantial amount of with only 1.:52 on the clock. momentwn as the Dutchmen Continued on page ll Vot v Nazi thai· wi: Chapel· Nov.lo. Hiss] Union's Hillel Speaker $1.50 to 75 cents will be , Sinc.e Poland' centra tic Wiesent: have lee than 1, Adolf 1 commai Wiese: track d< who arr her fam -,,I ha1 he has 1 referrin their ll camps forgive personc: authoriz against Found Jewish inVienn been. co on Josef who chi gassed , to be li· Walter l Chile. The I sur vivo counts <J his me1 Among title of 1 In the elemen1 Soviet Oblast a War II,· was an died in was siJ himself, busine~ a bedsp1 Later Wife, a deport a bribing

Vol. l 08, No.7~ r-- • . Fountle_d at ·union College 1877 • ,_ •' -;~-~':l-,· ' ,. ·~ ~chenecfady:,. New York Thursday, Nov~9, 1978 Student Forum: . . . .... Amendments Proposed The weekly .meeting of the Student Forwn was called to order Monday, November 6 by Steve Richards, Student Body President and presiding officer of the Forum. The rninlltes of the' previous meeting were discu~sed and the necessary changes made. The first topic of the meeting ~- was a discussion of an amend- ment to the Constitution. The amendment, which will ·become Reports from the Conduct Ombudsman Committee, the Concert Committee and the Student Life Committee were heard next. The survey responses will be fed into a computer so that they can be correlated in several different ways (i.e. by class, sex., etc.) Bob Colley also spoke to the Forum on behalf of the College Resources Committee. In meeting with the Trustees, a series of fund raisers called a \Campaign for Coiiliillttnent\ were proposed, which would result in long range funding for the College. These funds are necessary to meet the 10 per- cent annual rising costs. The main portion of the campaign will strive for $30 million over a period of seven years. It con- sists of attaching donors' names to buildings, scholarshipS and professorships. The other part of the proposal concentrates on an endowment presently of $8 million that will grow rather than remain constant through the years. Na:z:i hunter Simon Wiesentha I ~Section 2.d. reads \A proposed amend!nent to the By-Laws shall be adopted when at least two-tliirds of those _Forum members present vote in favor of the proposed amendment .... In order to adopt this as an aq1endment, the Forum voted to follow the. procedure set up in Section 2.b.,.\A simple majority of the total membership of the Student Forum must vote in favor of another petition signed by f~y percent of the Student Body ... \. The Conduct Ombudsman Committee report concerned the new fire alarm policy. The Housing Committee had proposed to allow a total of three malicious or deliberate .fire alarms within the period of one week on a floor, after which fines would be levied. The Conduct Ombudsman Com- inittee instead proposedtha~ the first such alarm be responded to with a letter of warning to all members of the floor, with all following alanns initiating a fine A limit of fines per student per te.rm has been set; upon exceeding this limit the students will be brought before the Conduct Ombudsman Committee. This committee is now in the process of distributing copies of this policy to all resident · advisors and The Student Forwn also in the course of the evening approved the following series of amend- ments to the Committee on Committee guidelines: VI. Removal From Conunittees: (1} Any student who does not attend ;:tt least 75 percent of his- her committee meetings and ftmctions shall be subject to removal from his-her com- mittee at the discretion of the Student Committee on Com- mittees. {2) If d'uring the colll'se of the year, a student no longer meets all eligibility requirements, he-she is subject to removal from his-her com- mittee by the Student Com- mittee on Committees. VII. Eligibility: (1) Only students :who are currently enrolled at 1Union College, with the ex- ,ception of students registered in the Union Term Abroad Program, and who pay a student.activity fee, are eligible for membership on those committees appointed by the Student Committee on Com- mittees. Wiesenthal to Speak Na~i buntet Simon Wiesen ... thal will speak· at Memorial Chapel at lk36 p;m .. Thursday, Nov. 16. His speech is- sponsored by Union's history department, Hillel organization, and Speaker's Forum. Tickets are $1.50 to the· gener.al public and 75 cents with a Union I.D. and will be available at the door. Sinc.e his release from Poland's Mauthausen con- centration camp 32 years ago, Wiesenthars relentless efforts have led to the capture of more than 1 ,ooo Nazis, including Adolf EichmanJL and camp commandant Franz Stangl. Wiesenthal also managed to track down the Gestapo agent who arrested AnJle F'rank and ht1t family in 1944. \I have six i:nillioil clients,\ he haa been quoted as saying, referring to the Jews who lost their lives in concentration camps in Europe. ''You can forgive crimes against you personally, but no one is authorized to forgive crimes against others.\ Founder and head of the Jewish Documentation Center in Vienna, Wiesenthal has. lately been concentrating his search on Josef Mengele, the physician who chose the victims to be gassed ·at AuschWitz,· reported to be living . in Argentina, and Walter Rauff, believed to be in Chile. The 68 ye~r-old hQlocaust survivor gives detailed ac- counts of his grim sleuthing in his memoirs 1 T.he ·Murderers ~ong Us, which . will be the title of his talk at Union. In the purge of \bourgeois\ elements that followed the Soviet occupation of Lvov Oblast at the beginning .of World War II, Wiesenthar s stepfather ~as arrested and eventually died in prison; hiS stepbrother ~as shot; and Wiesen thai hunself, forced to close his business; became a mechanic in. a bedspring factory. .Later he saved himself, his Wife, and his mother from dbeportation . to Siberia by r1bing an NKVD commissar. When the Germans di&placed the Russians in 194f, a former employ~e: of his,. then servipg in the collaborationist Ukrainian auxiliary police,, helped him to- escape exec!ltiorr .by the Nazis. He did not escape in- carceration, howeYer. Following initial detention in the, Janowska concentration camp, just outside Lvov, he and his wife were assigned to the · forced labor camp serving the Ostbahn Works, the repair shop fQr Lvov's Eastern Railroad. He escaped from the camp in 1943, just before the1iquidation-Of the inmates there. He was recaptured less than a year later, and ended up at · Mauthausen. He weighed ·less than 100 pounds and was barely alive when an American. ar- mored unit liberated the camp in 1945. In all, he and his wife lost 89 relatives during the holocaust. NCAA Gives Bid to Union Soccer This past Sunday, in a move which made Union College history, the National Collegiate Athletic Association gave a tournament bid to the .Dut- chman Varsity Soccer team. Not Witillast year, when Union withdrew from NESCAC, was t!te. College allowed to accept a .post. season NCAA tournament bid. . Not only were the Dutchmen given a position in the four-team Region I tourney, but were also seeded second. The Dutchman Booters Will therefore by en- titled to host the first tour· nament game against Glassboro State of New Jersey. Glassboro, seeded third with a 13-1 record, invades Union this Saturday, November 11. Game time is at 1:00 p.m. The other Region l game pits No. 1 seed Cortland State vs. No. 4 seed Albany State. The winner of the Region I tournament advances to the National Finals at Babson College. . Up until Sunday night, there was much doubt as to whether or not Union would still receive a bid following its season- ending 3-0 loss to Division I oneonta State. The game was a frustrating one for the Dut- chm4iln. Believing ~hat they had to, win to earn a berth in the tournament, the Dutchmen totally outolf;lved Oneonta in the . first half witli no results. Twice Union hit the crossbar in the first half, and twic~< the ball rebounded on to the playing field. But despite being totally outplayed, Oneonta scored early andled 1-0 at the half. Due to their ferocious first half play, the Dutchmen were unable to keep up their relentless pressure in the second half. A goal midway through the half, · and another with only 30 seconds remaining sent the Garnet home dejected .. A win would have virtually assured Union a bid, but the loss left them in a jwnble with Albany, St. Lawrence and Marist, among other upstate teams. (Albany eventually got a bid when . Keane State was disqualified because of an inelligible player.) Senior co~captains Jim Manning and John Kovacs sat by the phones apprehensiveiy Sunday evening, but their first ltnowledge of the bid did not come until the news that night. ic So now it's off to the NCAA's, a dreamland of many, anc:l a ~~. reality to ollly a very few. And !Jowgoodis Union, really? Even mthe 3-0 defeat to Oneonta, the Oneonta State coach remar1ted that Union was the best team he ~ad seen all year; and that :mcluded powerhouses Hartwick and LlU. students. · Jeff Winter, chairman of the Concert Committee, then told the Forum of its plans to take a surveyofconcerts that would be of interestto students. He stated that althou_gh .theyJ<>st. money on the Southside Johnny con- cert, they did not overspend their budget. They were very pleased to see that there was an ·il)crease in the number of Union students attending this concert over the number in the past. Th~re are presently plans underway for two winter con· certs. Plans for a rink concert were not discussed due to the high cost of renting. the rink, its poor acoustics and the time required to reserve the facility; instead, arrangements are being made for a concert at Proctor's Theater on State St. in downtown Schenectady. The Student Life Cormnittee has set up a 'needs and nece~ities' survey that will rank all of the available ser- vices on · campus by their quality and significance to the students. The purpose of this survey are to decide whether the amount of money that is spent on each service is necessary and to reapportion the money among the areas of most importance to students. Aa a final topic before retiring in to their closed session, the Forwn decided to table the constitutions of the Ski Club, .Sky Diving Club and Chinese students Association beca11Se of que$tions that arose that could not be answered at that time. Sophomore Mike canning (In white).

PageS 00\$00BD1EN818 1 November 9, 1918 Questions. In re.cent weeks housing has become a volatile issue on campus. With the appointment of a new housing administrator and Dean of Students, many students are questioning the conditions of the old dormitories as well as the pollcies concerning housing. Aside from ·the old complaints about the dorms,. many new questions have arisen. The most important of all: what percentage of housing revenues paid from student fees is acU..ally used for capital expenditures to improve and maintain the dormitories? If overall revenues (estimated at $1.1 m1llion) and the cost for Jtie ad- ministration of housing (salaries, electricity, etc.) (estimated at $800,000) do not balance, is, in fact, $300,000 being used :for other non-housing uses? This raises the question of Whether students who live in the dorms should be asked to contribute more to the · general operating fund of. the college than their peers who live of:f·campus? A second question has also surfaced: how can the college assure that .a positive direction wiU be taken on the improvement of housing conditions on campus if a continuity in the office of the housing ad- ministrator cannot l;>e maintainea'? We would- recommend that policy on housing issues be stated in clear terms not dependent upon the attitudes of the. particular administrator. Examples of this are such decisions as the intention to establish freshman dormitories by Ms. Suzanne Dowling and the decisions to inspect rooms by the housing ad- ministrator and hold students to their room contracts by Mr. Dave Wood. In addition, the methods used to implement new housing policy must also be questioned. We believe\· that a housing administrator must explain the rationale of his policies to his constituency. Student cooperation is imperative both for the successful implementation of new housing policies and im- provement of. the dorms. · It is very irltportant in light of the decision to en- force cooking regulations, that a<Jded cooking facilities are provided in many of the dorms on campus, e.g., Fox and Davidson. It is equally im- portant that the housing administrator give sufficient notice of policy changes. The decision to ban cooking_ from the dormitories has left •many unfortunate students with large refrigerators and cooking ap- pliances_purchased last spring. It is true that the housing office has given students the fall term to divest themselves of such appliances. However, many students will still be left suffering a resultant financial burden. \ Will, in fact, rn..oney be invested to improve both structural and cosmetic aspects of housing at Union by the board of trustees? Granted, the question of vandalism has been validly raised by those wishing not to put funds into student residences. We maintain, though, that vandalism should not be used as. an excuse but rather as a focal point in a general plan to improve housing. The board of trustees should realize that the need to spend money to continue to attract high quality students to this institution. As was pointed out by our article on housing conditions, Union may have some tough competition in future years from other schools comparable in quality when prospective students examine our dormitories. This fact mu~;~t be kept in mind when considering the ex- pected reduction in the applicant pool. Union has a challenging task facing it. But, unless the board recognizes the importance of adequate housing conditions for resident students and allocates the monies deserving of such an essential priority; the tradition, espoused by the college, of excellet:tce 'in ALL areas will again be affirmed as a meaningless statement. · _..,,.oa lk - · '!::..\ Id'•, C!lmtrnr ~~···~.~ . ·~~· .. ~· . 17 /~~-T-~!; 95 &•tfU.StS oa . .,.~~c..... . Editors-.iJlo(;;'bief Production Manager News Editors Layout Editor Feature Editors · Associate Editor aassified Editor Arts Editor Copy Editor Environs Sports Editor · Photo Editor Subscription Editors Calendar Editor F'ine Lines Editor · Staff Photo. Staff Business Staff . .: .. J•o!' ? ~~.UJ'l\\': . . David Schtnertz, David Rubin Debbe Damren Jim Davis, Sue Barnhart. - Danny Woinilower Roslyn Stone, Ponna creeley Matt Nagorsky Terri Moran Steve Monosson .. . Alissa Schagrin ' Usa V oennan, Eileen kanter Tom Buiocchi Cary Feuel'in811. Ken MarkS., Valerie Juster · Melissa Cragin JtimDeDeka. Marty Dolan, Doug Rosenfeld, Susan Marr · · Jonny :Bamel, Dwight Pakan Pat Wri~t, Richard Sber Larry Fallek, Dale Sponaugl~, DarrelSelfe,. · Susan Pava, JeniferAronoff, Sharon Moss OPINION: Student.Forum An Isolated Case To the Editors: I hav.e .been out-of .. town for a few· days and returned .from a trip south very late Saturday night. After 11 hours on the road, I think it is un- derstandable that my .first move was in the direction of the nearest keg of beer. That was a - smart move onmy part because in the course of the next couple of hours r stwnbled (literally) upon a. copy of last week's Concordieusis. If I had not drank so much beer, I probably wouldhave gotten back into my car and headed south again (and maybe would have made like a bird and stayed there till Spring). · · , To the chagrin of some people I' can think of, I stayed. I would like to respond to last week's letter to the editor written by Chip Symington, Class of 1982. I thank Chip for being interesterl and caring enough to write that letter. However, l must disagree with his assessment of the Student . Forum ·meeting held Oct. 30. It was at least a three:hour meeting which in· volved some very difficult questions. I believe that for the most pad, there was order :and respect shown between the· students present. I do not recall any instances during the BSA appeals where disrespect was shown to our guests. If I must say so, I think thl!t during Unit part of the meeting (which was most of it), things went very well. I agree with Cbip When it comes to · that part of the meeting which involved Con, cordiensis (only about one half hom of the meeting). During. this debate at least one forllill· member· was repriipanded .by me for a lack of' courtesy and admittedly, there were a few other less blatant instances whiCh were in this same vair.. I :;nowd tell you that, after the me~ting there was a great-deal · o.f concern among fQrum members over the lack of courtesy .shown our guests during the Concordiensis debate. Dave O'Connor iin- mediately comes to mind as one of those who voiced the same kind of criticism Chip did. In short then, I think the meeting in question went very Well and I do not want to see a few \irresponsible acts take away from the commendable behavior exhibited . by . most Forum members that night. That ~litist image alluded to .by .Chip is something which we must guard against, but 1 think for now at least, it is an argument- wbi<~li holds .l Uttle · E,ater. In my·position, 1 oetter make damn sure this remains the case·. , · · ' · Steve Richards Student Body President I b~ For senxic pro vi~ Saga diSCOl howe, servi< retaw To tnitte plical Altho1 highel applic news' comm Ace of Fo' zone, to go Des1 vices •Still diS COil West. Con: call t: would AnQth addin~ that cc never thisi 11 AS l dissati many the Ut RSVP, asked opinim servic~ The were, \very \The : that l service Mos· howeV• organi: than a part ol Usin as a g novath qualit:y Amon~ \bette1 studen1 anewr Lyons. \He th~ OVE prepar theser repetit: dogs a1 that W:i was le1 Upon the fir~ 1 Meeti Hellenit busines membe one we1 Und.e

Page 2 OONOORDIENSIS~ November 9, 19\18 Questions In recent weeks housing has become a volatile issue on campus. With the appointment of a new housing adm1n!strator and Dean of Students, many students are questioning the conditions of the old dormitories as well as the policies concerning housing. Aside from the old complaints about the dorms, many new questions have arisen. The most important of all: what percentage of housing revenues paid from student fees is actually used for capital expenditures to improve and :maintain the dormitories? If overall revenues (estimated at $1.1 million) and the cost for the ad- ministration of housing {salaries, electricity, etc.) (estimated at $800,000) do not balance, is., in fact, $300,000 being used for other non-housing uses? This raises the question of whether students who live in the dorms should be asked to contribute more to the general operating fund of the college than their peers who live off campus? A second question has also surfaced: how can the coUege assure that a positive direction will be taken on the improvement of housing conditions on campus if a continuity in the office of the housing ad- ministrator cannot be maintained? We would recommend that policy on housing issues be stated in clear terms not dependent upon the attitudes of the particular administrator. Examples of this are such decisions as the intention to establish freshman dormitories by Ms. Suzanne Dowling and the decisions to inspect rooms by the housing ad- ministrator and hold students to their room contracts by Mr. Dave Wood. In addition, the methods used to implement new housing policy must also be questioned. We believe that a housing administrator must explain the rationale of his policies to his constituency. Student cooperation is imperative both for the successful implementation of new housing policies and im- provement of the dorms. It is very important in light of the decision to en- force cooking regulations, that added cooking facilities are provided in many of the dorms on campus, e.g., Fox and Davidson. It is equally im- portant that the housing administrator give sufficient notice of policy changes. The decision to ban cooking from the dormitories has left many unfortunate students with large refrigerators and cooking ap- pliances _purchased last spring. It is true that the housing office has given students the fall term to divest themselves of such appliances. However, many students will still be left suffering a resultant financial burden. Will, in fact, money be invested to improve both structural and cosmetic aspects of housing at Union by the board of trustees? Granted, the question of vandalism has been validly raised by those wishing not to put funds into student residences. We maintain, though, that vandalism should not be used as an excuse but rather as a focal point in a general plan to improve housing. The board of trustees should realize that the need to spend money to continue to attract high quality students to this institution. As was pointed out by our article on housing conditions, Union may have some tough competition in future years from other schools comparable in quality when prospective students examine our dormitories. This fact must be kept in mind when considering the ex- pected reduction in the applicant pool. Union has a challenging task facing it. But, unless the board recognizes the importance of adequate housing conditions for resident students and allocates the monies deserving of such an essential priority, the tradition, espoused by the college, of excellence in ALL areas will again be affirmed as a meaningless statement. ,.ou ,,.. Oinnrnr ~Id'·· &--;···:.~ a ,{;!!~ 95 ltitnsts co~-::tt.c'fl . Editors-in-t:hief Production Manager News Editors Layout Editor Feature Editors Associate Editor Classified Editor Arts Editor Copy Editor Environs Sports Editor Photo Editor Subscription Editors Calendar Editor Fine Lines Editor Staff Photo Staff Business Staff +.,ZL~~ ~....,CT.\11\ • David Schmertz, David Rubin Debbe Damrell Jim Davis, Sue Barnhart • Danny Wotnilower Roslyn Stone, l)onna Creeley Matt Nagorsky Terri Moran Steve Monosson Alissa Schagrin Lisa Voerman, Eileen Kanter Tom Buiocchi Cary Feuerman Ken Marks, Valerie Juster Melissa Cragin Jt~~n DeDeka Marty Dolan, Doug Rosenfeld, Susan Marr Jonny Bamel, Dwight Pakan Pat Wright, Richard Sber Larry Fallek, Dale Sponaugle, Darrel Seife, Susan Pava, Jenifer Aronoff, Sharon Moss OPINION: Student Forum An Isolated Case To the Editors: I have been out-of-town for a few days and returned from a trip south very late Saturday night. After 11 hours on the road, I think it is un- derstandable that my first move was in the direction of the nearest keg of beer. That was a smart move on my part because in the course of the next couple of hours I stumbled (literaUy) upon a copy of last week's Concordiensis. If I had not drank so much beer, I probably would have gotten back into my car and headed south again (and maybe would have made like a bird and stayed there till spring). To the chagrin of some people I can think of, I stayed. I would like to respond to last week's letter t0 the editor written by Chip Symington, Class of 1982. I thank Chip for being interesterl and caring enough to write that · Tzy the Editors: ' . ··--...· · The Union . \Collette . com:..· munity denntndS more fr<>m its newspaper' thart clic~t! \J%{ ~ editorials and' · smnte&· ·· articles. Therefore I feel compelled ~o respond l · ~' li your article. \A:ppeals' ~ and your 'edit6rial \ sightedness, n ~ .. ·::v'· The tax committe~'s decision .... to reject Concordie~fS' request ' for an answering machine was grounded on a review ()f the newspaper•s past advertising record. There is a limit to the amount of advertisements which can be placed in Con· curdiensis before · the newspaper becomes in- disting~ishable frOm a shopping ·flyer. The optimum number of advertiserneJ'ltS · bas been --<Jbw · :tailtted·tnth~''·ps$t witb9ut4he ·· · · . a~rl,.4nsweri!Jgc ~ma®ine. .. bel~eve. letter. However, I must disagree with his assessment of the Student Forum meeting held Oct. 30. It was at least a three-hour meeting which in- volved some very difficult questions. I believe that for the most part, there was order and respect shown between the students present. I do not recall any instances during the BSA appeals where disrespect was shown to our guests. If I must say so, I think that during that part of the meeting (which was most of it), things went very well. I agree with Chip when it comes to that part of the meeting which involved Con- cordiensis (only about one half hour of the meeting). During this debate at least one forum member was reprirnaRded by me for a lack of courtesy and admittedly, there were a few other less blatant instaRces which were in this san1e vair:. I ,~ Thet~ eommittee;s.intentfon . was not to preventA1rtist& &Uch as Geor;,g13 Benson-. · Cbttelt Mangione or Santana from appearing at Union. We realize. that these performers would be welcomed by almost all Union students. If the BSA desires to bring these people to Union, they should ~make their should tell you that after the meeting there was a great deal of concern among forum members over the lack of courtesy shown our guests during the Concord'iensis debate. Dave O'Connor im- mediately comes to, mind as one 0f those who voiced the same kind of criticism Chip did. In short then, I think the meeting in question went very well and I do net want to see a few irresponsiBle acts take away from the commendable behavior exhibited by most Forum members that night. That ~litist image aUuded to by Chip is something which we must guard against, but I think for now at least, it is an argwnent which holds little water. In my position, I better 'make damn sure this remains the case. Steve Richards Student Body President Yours sinC{)rely~ Jean(!;~PeJl.etiete · • · ... , ··>:\flibr~tian .• ... Off-the-·fiefd Behavior Dear Edit()r. ' suggestions to·· the Concert · Tbe Union community can . Committee. ~· surely be proud of their rugby I haVe never made anY at• team's .J>n,.the-field record of 5 tempt to oont . . · cont ~ · · · and o. Their aff4he.-£ield ,r~eortf the newspaper. ·· · ,, is anotnij'u.nrnatt~n; l ·ref@r · .it(f •· now\ dri\t~n · t!' sugg~-st· amajor · · . .fntb:it ' of · singing \ . · .· tn. tts ·potley~ ·.~Gun• · , ak ~lltl(~;t• =:iir~eie5!:~==~=~=lii!~-~ mow~ ~~@~,~~~·1,~~$~w~~~~~h~~~~·~~-~vw~~w l .l ~ I I I I . { I <I J 1 ; ! 1 I . l l l I. l ~~ . t r . . ~ ' ' ··j ', ! '!' I l ' ! ) I i I ! I I I j .. .c: g .. .Q A b~ For servi< provic Saga. dis cor howe' servic retain To mitte plical Althot higheJ applic news• comm A CCI of Fo• zone, to go Des1 vices · 1 St ill discon West. Com call tl would Anoth ad dinE that c< never this!\ As ; dissati many the Ur RSVP, asked opinior servicE The were, \very \The : that t servicE Mos1 howev• organi: than a part of Usin1 as a g novatir quality Among \bette1 studen1 anewF Lyons. \He the ove prepar, the ser' repetiti dogs ar that wa was let Upon the fir5 I Meeti Hellenic busines membe one we1 Unde

/ RSVP Improves ·service by ST~VEN G. SINGER For 17 straight years, the food services at West College were provided by one food service, Saga. Because of serious discontent with that service however, the College's food' service committee chose not to · retam Saga for this year. . To replace Sa:gli, the com- mittee had numerous ap- plicants to choose from. Althoughtbey submitted a price higher than any of the other applicants, RSVP, a relatively new serv'i!!e, was chosen by the committee. is in .bis .first year as food· ser- . vice director, compiled a . surv.ey of hiS own. \It was something. I had · planned to do twice each term anyway,\ he said. The reaction to that survey was, in his words, \100 percent better than to the first.\ He added that· the second survey indicated that RSVP ''Is being more responsive tQ the students' needs.\ Both Mazzone and Labatt Wednesday, and will be able to approve or ammend them as he sees fit . Along with . this added supervision, RSVP has agreed to numerous special meals, including holJday banquets, special buffets, and the weekly Monday night steak lottery. There is. little doubt that college food wm ever· be compared to home cooking. RSVP is however, determined · to make both its food and ser- vice as acceptable . to the students as possible. With the :steps taken thus far, as well as the planned changes, this task seems far from unlikely. ,Page 3 Director of Food Services( Angelo Mazzone. . Accordingto Qnioo's Director of Food ~rvice, Angelo Maz- zone, ''The committee decided to go for quality.\ ' Despite the change in ser• vices this year, many students •still hav~ expressed great discontent with the food at West. . noted that the biggest complaint foUnd in the second survey was in regard to food temperature; many students complained of hot entrees being served cold, and, in some cases, cold dri,nks a,nd such being~served warm. Both men, }U>wev~r, felt that great improvement had been made in both food quality and service. Low -Voter Turnout Found Commetlted one student, \'l'o call the .food at West edible Would be quite a compliment.\ Another .freshman agreed. adding, \I had always· beard that college food was bad, but I never exp~cted, anything like this!\ · AS a result af the obvious dissatisfaction on tlle part of so many students, Gene Labatt, the Union College director for RSVP, compiled a survey that asked students for their opinions of both the fodd and service. The results of that survey were, according to Mazzone, \very disturbing.\ He said, \The students seemed to feel that both the foqd and the service were very poor \ Most of these problems, however,. be attributed to organizational problems raiher than any .shortcomings o'n the part of RSVP. . Using the results of his survey as a gutde, Labatt began ren- novating the service in both the quality of food and service. Among the changes made to \better meet the needs of the students\ included the hiring of a new production manager, Ray Lyons. _ \He ·will be respon~ible for th~ overall management of food preparation,\ said La batt. Also, the service will attempt to avoid repetition of meals, such as hot dogs and hamburgers. One chef that was retained from last year was let go as well. Upon analyzing the data of the first survey, Ma:1:zone, who Many students disagree however, althoughthereis quita a bit .of ·mixed reaction. Com- mented one freshman, \The service has definitely hn- proved, but the food is still terrible. u -.. Another freshman adfnitted, .uThere were a few days when I thought it was really getting better, but then it started getting worse again.'' · One upperclassman disagreed with both freshmen. Responding to the question \Has the food improved?,\ he replied,. \Oh sure!\ It seems to be the consensus of opinion that R8VP is con- siderably better than was Saga. \100 times better than Saga,'' commented Mazzone. The problem· sill exists never- theless, as how to improve the food to a level acceptable to m.ost students . One solution could be, as Mazzone suggests, \Forming a committee of West College eaters who could work with the manger in putting together the menus.\ Labatt welcomes the for- mation of -such a committee, adding that he first suggested a similar idea on October 19, the day of· the first survey. With the changes that are in the process of being put into effect, as well as the close supervision of both the food service committee and Angelo himself, there is expected to be a great increase in the number of students satisfied with both the food and service at West. Mazzone is now to recieve weekly menus the previous by JIM DAVIS. Union: students surveyed in a New York s,tate gubernatorial preference poll c()nducted on campus Tuesday evening were spUt almost _ evenly between G.ov. Hugh L. Carey, the Democratic candidate, and Republican challenger, Perry Duryea. Gov. Carey scored a solid victory in the general election. Sixtyuseven students who are New York State students-about three percent of the College's student body-were polled. Thirty one•-46.3 percent-- expressed a preference for Carey. Thit:ty--44.8 percentu- favored Duryea. The remaining six: individuals polled said they had no preference and did not cast a ballot in the general election. Of those expressing an opihion, 25 said they did not vote in the election. Twelve .favored Carey and 13 opted for Duryea. Giving reasons why they did not vote,these persons said they were either not 18 years old and eligible to vote or were unable to obtain an absentee ballot. Students were polled at the election eve party in the Social Sciences Building faculty lounge, the Pub, library, and Fox;, Davidson and Richmond dormitories between 9and-10:30 p.m. Those favoring Carey generally expressed more positive reasons on ·how they arrived at their electoral decision: \Carey ~bowed courage with stands on Medicaid, abortions and the death penalty,\ sa!d David Baum, a sophomore from Utica. \He's got guts, and that's why I voted for him.\ Jeff Silverman, a freshman, said he \couldn't vote for Duryea, when he based his campaign on one issue: the death penalty.\ \Carey balanced the state budget,\ Ellen Heininger, a Rochester sophomore· said. \Even though I don't have to pay them, I' m concerned with taxes.\ Bob Bynes, another Rochester sophomore, voted for Duryea, and believed other- wise. \I voted for Duryea,\ he said, \because he's better equipped to cut taxes.\ Joan Mownblo, a sophomore from Hudson Falls, near Lake George, said she voted for Duryea because Carey's too much of a downstater. I don't think he payed enough attention to the upstate area and its problems.\ · But ·many of the persons questioned who said they preferred Duryea gave less specific reasons about how they cast their votes. \Duryea was the lesser of two evils,\ said Lisa Lenz, a sophomore ' in a typical com- ment. Guests Attend 'Tom Paine'· Paul Foster, author of Tom Paine, and Dr. Harold Taylor will be special guests at the Mountebanks performance of the play on Thursday, November 16 and a reception in the Dutch Hollow Pub directly afterwards for all participants and ticket holders for that evening's performance. ' Paul Foster has written twelve .plays besides Tom Paine. He has also written twenty four books, seven on the. subject of Paine. A member of the Dramatists' Guild, PEN, and the Author's League, Foster has received the NY Drama Critics Prize and the Irish Universities Drama Prize for Tom Paine. Also on his lists of honors are the Rockefeller Foundation Fellowship for Literature, Creative Artists Public Service Grant, National Endowment for the Arts Writing Fellowship, John Simon Guggenheim Fellowship for Literature and U.S. Depart- ment of State Lecture Tour Awards. PUC Finalizes Frat~rnity Rush Dr. Harold Taylor is an author, educator, Professor of Philosophy and Former President of Sarah lawrence College. He has written several books, including How to Change Colleges: Notes on Radical Reform, The Humanities in the Schools, Art and the Future, and Art and the Intellect. In 1961-62, he was the host of the ABC Television series '~Meet the Professor.\ B~sides the reception by DAN BOOTH Meeting ()n Nov. 6, the Pan- Hellenic C()1lrtcil had a lot of business o~ the agenda. All members, of the coWicil save one were present. · Under ()}d business the council discussed th~ Brown· · Cup Award which was given out Homecoming- Weekend. ,The winner was Phi Delta Theta. Runners•up were Delta Phi and Phi Gamma Delta, last year's recipient~ · A new committee will be set up at the next meeting to for- mulate new Brown Cup rules. One of the 'Objectives of the committee will be to set up a compilation of Brown Cup po~nts term-by-term, rather than year by year. Under new business. two !\)resident Auburnpreseots the Brown Cuptci.Phi ~Ita Theta. committees were set up for PH- . C social events. The first committee will be chaired by PHC Vice-President Carmen Saginario and PHC Treasurer Richard Delaney, for the purpose of deciding the date of the PHC Ball, to be '\held , sometime during the winter tenn. the second conunittee was established to set up a PHC- faculty cocktail party, also to be held in the Winter tetm. The final point on the agenda concerned \rush season.\ Starting next Monday, Nov. 13, bid boxes will be set up in West College Cafeteria. during mealtimes, so that .freshmen ,can match bids with the fraternitY of their choice. A freshman may drop his first three choices in the box on Nov. 13 and 14. The bid boxes will also be set up oil Nov. 27, 28; and 29. The PHC · will have their next meet~g on N. ov. 14 at 8 p.m. to match blds. Thursday evening, both Foster and Taylor will participate in lectmes and a colloquium on Friday. Beginning at 11:00 a.m. in Strauss LoWige, Dr. Harold Taylor Will speak on \The Arts and International Relations.'' He will be followed at 11:45 by Paul Foster's lecture on ''Contemporary Theater and Arts around the World.\ Then everyone is invited to join the guesrs in a BYO lunch at the Dutch Hollow Pub. The colloquiUl11, an informal group discussion featuring Foster, Dr. Taylor, and Guest Director Robert Walter, will commence at 3:00 in the Nott Memorial. It will be titled- \ARTSPECULATION 101 being A Dialectic on Avant Garde Aesthetics or Mickey Mouse Drags His Ass Across the Global Village or 'If there were three acts we'd have elephants•. '' Everyone is invited to attend, free of charge, the entire day's events which look to be very educational and enlightening.

I I l I • ~ j \ l ! l l l OONOORDIENSIS, November 9, '1918 ,Page 3 RSVP Improves by STEVEN G. SINGER For 17 straight years, the food services at West College were provided by one food service, Saga. Because of serious discontent with that service however, the CeUege's food service committee chose not to retain Saga for this year. To replace Saga, the com- mittee had numerous ap- plicants to choose from. Although they submitted a price higher than any of the other applicants, RSVP, a relatively new service, was chosen by the committee. According to Union's Director of Food Service, Angelo Maz- zone, \The committee decided to go for quality.\ Despite the change in ser• vices this year, many students •still have expressed great discontent with the food at West. Commented one student, \To call the food at West edible would be quite a compliment.\ Another freshman agreed, adding, \I had always heard that college food was bad, but I never expected anything like this!\ As a result of the obvious dissatisfaction on the part of so many students, Gene Labatt, the Union College director for RSVP, compiled a survey that asked students for their opinions of both the fodd and service. The results of that survey were, according to Mazzone, \very disturbing.\ He said, \The students seemed to feel that both the food and the service were very poor'' Most of these problems, however, he attributed to organizational problems rather than any shortcomings on the part of RSVP. Using the results of his survey as a guide, Labatt began ren- novating the service in both the quality of food and service. AJnong the changes made to \better meet the needs of the students\ included the hiring of a new production manager, Ray Lyons. \He will be responsible for the overall management of food preparation,\ said La batt. Also, the service will attempt to avoid repetition of meals, such as hot dogs and hamburgers. One chef that was retained from last year was let go as well. Upon analyzing the data of the first survey, Mazzone, who is in his first year as food ser- vice director, compiled a survey of his own. ''It was something I had planned to do twice each term, anyway,\ he said. The reaction to that survey was, in his words, ''100 percent better than to the ~irst.\ He added that the second survey indicated that RSVP ''is bein.g more responsive to the students' needs.\ Both Mazzone and La batt noted that the biggest cemplaint foWld in the second survey was in regard to food temperature; many students ·complained of hot entrees being served cold, and, in some cases, cold drinks and such being served warm. Both men, however, felt that great improvement had been made in both food quality and service. Many students disagree however, although there is quita a bit of mixed reaction. Com- mented one freshman, \The service has definitely im- proved, but the food is still terrible.\ Another freshman admitted, \There were a few days when I thought it was really getting better, but then it started getting worse again.\ One upperclassman disagreed with both freshmen. Responding to the question \Has the food improved?,\ he replied, \Oh sure!\ It seems to be the consensus of opinion that RSVP is con- siderably better than was Saga. \100 times better than Saga,\ commented Mazzone. The problem sill exists never- theless, as how to improve the food to a level acceptable to most students One solution could be, as Mazzone suggests, \Forming a committee of West College eaters who could work with the manger in putting together the menus.\ Labatt welcomes the for- mation of such a committee, adding that he first suggested a similar idea on October 19, the day of the first survey. With the changes that are in the process of being put into effect, as well as the close supervision of both the food service committee and Angelo himself, there is expected to be a great increase in the number of students satisfied with both the food and service at West. Mazzone is now to recieve weekly menus the previous Service Wednesday, and will be able to approve or ammend them as he sees fit. Along with this added supervision, RSVP has agreed to nwnerous special meals, including holiday banquets, special buffets, and the weekly Monday night steak lottery. There is little doubt that col'lege food will ever be compared to home cooking. RSVP is however, determined to make both its food and ser- vice as acceptable to the students as possible. With the steps taken thus far, as well as the planned changes, this task seems far from unlikely. Director of Food Services, Angelo Mazzone. Low Voter Turnout Found byJIMDAVIS Union students surveyed in a New York State gubernatorial preference poll conducted on campus Tuesday evening were split almost evenly between Gov. Hugh L. Carey, the Democratic candidate, and Republican challenger, Perry Duryea. Gov. Carey scored a selid victory in the general election. Sixty-seven students who are New York State students-about three percent of the College's student body-were polled. Thirty one--46.3 percent-- expressed a preference for Carey. Thirty--44.8 percent-- favored Duryea. The remaining six individuals polled said they had no preference and did not cast a ballot in the general election. Of those expressing an opinion, 25 said they did not vote in the election. Twelve favored Carey and 13 opted for Duryea. Giving reasons why they did not vote, these persons said they were either not 18 years old and eligible to vote or were unable to obtain an absentee ballot. Students were polled at the election eve party in the Social Sciences Building faculty lounge, the Pub, library, and Fox, Davidson and Richmond dormitories between 9 and 10:30 p.m. Those favoring Carey generally expressed more positive reasons on how they arrived at their electoral decision. \Carey showed courage with stands on Medicaid, abortions and the death penalty,\ said David Baum, a sophomore from Utica. \He's got guts, and that's why I voted for him.\ Jeff Silverman, a freshman, said he \couldn't vote for Duryea, when he based his campaign on one issue: the death penalty.\ \Carey balanced the state budget,\ Ellen Heininger, a Rochester sophomore said. \Even though I don't have to pay them, I'm concerned with taxes.\ Bob Bynes, another Rochester sophomore, voted for Duryea, and believed other- wise. ''I voted for Duryea,'' he said, \because he's better equipped to cut taxes.\ Joan Mownblo, a sophomore from Hudson Falls, near Lake George, said she voted for Duryea because Carey's too much of a downstater. I don't think he payed enough attention to the upstate area and its problems.\ But many of the persons questioned who said they preferred Duryea gave less specific reasons about how they cast their votes. \Duryea was the lesser of two evils,\ said Lisa Lenz, a sophomore , in a typical com- ment. Guests Attend 'Tom Paine' Paul Foster, author of Tom Paine, and Dr. Harold Taylor will be special guests at the Mountebanks performance of the play on Thursday, November 16 and a reception in the Dutch Hollow Pub directly afterwards for all oarticipants and ticket holders for that evening's performance. Paul Foster has written twelve plays besides Tom Paine. He has also written twenty four books, seven on the subject of Paine. A member of the Dramatists' Guild, PEN, and the Author's League, Foster has received the NY Orama Critics Prize and the Irish Universities Drama Prize for Tom Paine. Also on his lists of honors are the Rockefeller Foundation Fellowship for Literature, Creative Artists Public Service Grant, National Endowment for the Arts Writing Fellowship, John Simon Guggenheim Fellowship for Literature and U.S. Depart- ment of State Lecture Tour Awards. PHC Finalizes Fraternity Rush Dr. Harold Taylor is an author, educator, Professor of Philosophy and Former President of Sarah lawrence College. He has written several books, including How to Change CoUegPs: Notes on Radical Reform, The Humanities in the Schools, Art and the Future, and Art and the Intellect. In 1961-62, he was the host of the ABC Television series \Meet the Professor.'' B,!:lsides the reception by DAN BOOTH Meeting on Nov. 6, the Pan- Hellenic Council had a lot of business on the agenda. All members of the council save one were present. Under old business the council discussed the Brown Cup Award which was given out Homecoming· Weekend. The winner was Phi Delta Theta. Runners-up were Delta Phi and Phi Gamma Delta, last year's recipient. A new conunittee will be set up at the next meeting to for- mulate new Brown Cup rules. One of the 'Objectives of the committee will be to set up a compilation of Brown Cup points term-by-term, rather than year by year. Under new business, two President Auburn presents the Brown Cup to Phi Delta Theta. committees were set up for PH- C social events. The first committee will be chaired by PHC Vice-President Carmen Saginario and PHC Treasurer Richard Delaney, for the purpose of deciding the date of the PHC Ball, to be - held sometime during the winter term. The second committee was established to set up a PHC- faculty cocktail party, also to be held in the winter term. The final point on the agenda concerned \rush season.\ Starting next Monday, Nov. 13, bid boxes will be set up in West College Cafeteria during mealtimes, so that freshmen can match bids with the fratsmitv of their choice. A freshman may drop his first three choices in the box on Nov. 13 and 14. The bid boxes will also be set up on Nov. 27, 28, and 29. The PHC - will have their next meeting on Nov. 14 at 8 p.m. to match bids. Thursday evening, both Foster and Taylor will participate in lectures and a colloquium on Friday. Beginning at 11:00 a.m. in Strauss Lounge, Dr. Harold Taylor will speak on \The Arts and International Relations.\ He will be followed at 11 :45 by Paul Foster's lecture on \Contemporary Theater and Arts around the World.\ Then everyone is invited to join the guesrs in a BYO lunch at the Dutch Hollow Pub. The colloquium, an informal group discussion featuring Foster, Dr. Taylor, and Guest Director Robert Walter, will commence at 3:00 in the Nott Memorial. It will be titled- \ARTSPECULATION 101 being A Dialectic on Avant Garde Aesthetics or Mickey Mouse Drags His Ass Across the Global Village or 'If there were three acts we'd have elephants'.\ Everyone is invited to attend, free of charge, the entire day's events which look to be very educational and enlightening.

Page.& by DOUG ROSENFELD DANNYWOJNILOWEJ! MATI' NAGORSKY and SUE BARNHART \I saw a really nice room on . , my tour of Union. It had car- peted walls and really com- . fortable furniture and bright curtains. The room I moved into . freshmen year had no mat- tre~es, no furniture, no cur- tains and windows so dirty that · it was a week before I realized that all the noise was coming from a eourty~rd. I spent the first three days collecting ·furniture, most of which was torn and dirty.\ It is through this and similar experiences . that, each year, Union College's resident students are either baptized into or reacquainted with the school's housing system shortcomings. Many freshlnen . are taken by surprise IJy housing abominations on campus. Most upperclassmen expect to undergo the hassles perennially. Both factions are disgusted with the situation. And so it is this year, with dormitory conditions the worst yet and with the appointment of a new . Director of Housing, that the housing issue, simmering for a long time, has finally · boiled over. 464 State St. we deliver -OONOOBDiliJ:NSIS, No'Vember 9) 19'18 ' \ The fact that a pewasive alternatives. As one student hou~ing problem exists is stated, \Receiving a letter in hands. unwitnessed or comes only to the attention of peers, it often goes unpunished. The fact that . RA's are peers. of the_ vandals. also levels pressure on tbemnot ·. readily apparent; ·a Iook at the ; late August advisillg us to dormitories displays their state · : . consider · seeking other alter- of utter disrepair. Pe-eling · natives was not proper warning paint, worn carpets, broke:nand fot what was to c;:ome. ,_, Many But the past is -,gone, the problem persists, and so we must look to the future for remedial action. Great strains cracked windows, graffitti· students expre$sed a desire for laden toilet stalls-all abo11nd in the building of additional \I sa·w a really ~ice room on m:y tour of Union.\ on-campus bowing. And so far cooking facilities within the as the casual observer can see, dorms that _ are presently .nothing is 'being done to cle;an up without such facilities. the situation. The students In comparing our existing invariably ask, ''Why?\ Upperclass reaction was .mixed when asked to comment on housing at Union_ Many upperclassmen expressed dissatisfaction with Housing Director Dave Wood. Many felt Mr. Wood's attitude ~oncei'\lling student conduct and ad- ministrator conduct was con- tradictory. Secondly, students 11oted dissatisfaction with the cooking facilities to those of other schools, similar in .size, most upperclassmen found Union to be inferior. In view of the pOor condition of many of the dorms, they feltthat the major problem in rehabilitatin-g the existing facilities waf;> the apparent lack or misapP.r,opriation of monie$. Althougti reaction to housing was generally found to be of a negative nature, one student believed that in many ways · Dave Wood was making at- tempts to improve that relationship between the . Housing Office and Union students. \Perhaps the student stated, \his tenure in office will show many , im- . provements in the housing situation at Union.\ In an. interview with Con- cotdiensis, Richard Mills, :• Director of Maintena,nce, · concedes that the dormitories · are in bad shape c~smetically. · He claims that dorms are · ''deteriorating but are being .put back togetheC' Citing, as a cause for lack of maintenance activity in dorms, the fact that it is difficult to work in occupied buildings, he alludes to the use of \summers for major repairs.\ But cosmetics is not -presently, according to Mills, a major priority in the ~ain­ tenance work schedule. Dorms are designed to be maintained as functional first and at- tractive last by his estimation of priorities. 9 pean of Students, Robert H. Kellett, whose office is closely allied with the offices of the Director of Housing and- Director of Maintenance in · matters of housing, states as housing priorities \health · are claimed to have been taken to report incidents of vandalism · to esta'blish and .fund housing to the proper authorities .. re.pair projects in the im- Concordiensls approached a mediate future. Dean Kellett, in few RAs to discu::;s with them . · • conjunction with-Director Mills; their positions as RAs. _ There has evolved a tentative tended to be .some sentiments . program wherein \·student that werenotediD·all those RA.s . painters will be hired !)y the approached. The· RA's see · College during the fall-Winter themselves in uncomfortable . break and over next sununer. situations as housing code · . · The monies delegated ~to this .enforcement is being promoted projee.t consist of residual by the Administration, .. funds, money from personnel specifically Dave Wood. They'. · savings due to vacant positions, find that the Administration is approved for release to housing not aidin~ them in their . '_-- ·_ '?.1_ e·o-'• ,·\';)._- 'i ·' l • ·_.\ h ••• • ~ _ ..• ,.,., c, --- > .,., , __ , __ . ·: -~ -.' .. '· . ',,.\ .. . . .. ' j ' -~..__;;;.;..··· .. ·-·:,•-·.;... '\!'-(•':'.'>·'~~\< -:: .. :~~- ,,:<\ ' •. -... \\ - y' ' • ••• {. .. ,· ,. by the Provost. . positions as they are being Such a piecemeal approach to directed to police their peers,. \ - the funding of such a fWl- considered by all to be .an ex- \Receiving a letter in late August ' damental process as dormitory tremely difficult task . maintenance has alarming One RA .spoke about ·the implications. It is indicative of difficulty that the school will an unwillingness on the part of face when trying to find R.A.s in · ... was not proper warning. \ the College Trustees to approve the future. He said, \If you funds for the cause for fear it think it was hard this year, wait will become \money down the Ulltil next year.\ I restrictions. Although rnosi believed the restrictions vere justified, many felt there was an_ inadequate amoWlt of time allotted to prepare o-ther~ Schenectady 374-1888 f t -d h h hole.\ .This fear is not un- The RAs only receive two• sa e y, an t e P ysical con• founded, as Dean Kellett is thirds of the cost of their rooms ditions of the dorms.\ He goes quick to point out as he explains. in renumeration .for their on to state tb~t Housing that what is left of $7,000 of new services, sometimes (.rather Director Dave Wood, as well as furniture bought for the West ft di t ) 24 he personanu, are aware of the 0 en accor ng o some a · \ Coil_ ege Library two years ago hou· r J\ob Problems and are attempting -to. · · · consists o_ f one table. o~ ap- Th- e RAs are as·ked to repo· rt ' address them. Meanwhile, \ · · · · · ·_ Wood mam·_ tams· . that hi's Im' - proximately $Ll million all damages of rooms and collected from residence h_all comm· ·o·n are· as but m· orde· t mediate programs are intended · ' · r o solely to eliminate .the fire . fees in 1978, less than six per- do so, would be aliegating the hazards and the occurrence of cent of that--($60,000)--w-as students on their floors, with false fire alarms. allocated for new capital ex- whom. some rapport needs to be Th .. e. ·reason-s· beh·t'nd the penditures. ;-., _ . maintained due to the fact that It is clear_ tnat i_f_ .the Trustees th Ill\ th fl failure of the: Co_ liege to address · . ey a · Ive on e same oor. h ate to be enticed into funding The RAs, are asked to fine itself to t e cosmetic problems dorm~tory upkeep and. im- students for CQoking in the of the dorms during this past provement, they must be rooms, while they along with summer are .several. Dean 11 ·n f Kellett is quick to- direct . convincedthat a WI not go or their friends have limited. food \bilit £ th\ naught. It is for this reason that . options. Imposing fines also responst . Y - or IS away thi~ _ year the problems of ·alienates fellow floor r_ esiden_ t_s~· from Mr. Wood and himself. 1' · d d - According to Dean Kellett_ . he . rna Ictous orrn. amage The R.A.s seem to feel that the , ·(vand_ alims) an_d what Dire_ ctor end· result t\s m· evi·tably stram· arrived on_. the s_ cene August 1_ 5 · · · - • Mills_ tenns as \unconsciou_s placed upon themselves wbil an __ d Mr. Wood a_ rrived on Jtil_ y · - · ' · e . . damage;; m_ ust be meticulously they a· ctually have· very lt'ttle 15. Th_ erefor_ e, \B_y· the time we · · · - · MCAT • Dir:UAj: GMIT )~· &IE • OCIT ·VAT· SAT addressed, control got here, the die bad already · - · been cast for the summer.\ The form:ation this year of an Dave Wood' has proposed Director MiUs jpst as deftly ad hoc Committee on Van- higher pay for RAs next year, avoidS admitting any respol).• . dalism is indicative of the ex\ specifically 50 percent of a meal sibility for the lack of cosmetic · tensive nature of the problem of- ,plan, but the R.As question worlt undertaken over the malicious dorm ;e;lamage. This whether or not that .will be summer past. · Pointing to c,o mm itt:i! e add res s e s enough to. induce. students to. Flexible Progr•m• & Hours 'Fhere rs. dif(eremelll Albany Center ~-- off 163 Delaware Ave. · .,. ·- - N·. - Delmar _ ... · - · . . . . · . EDUCATIONAl. CEN'rER phOne ( 518) .439-8146 . · _ TEST PAEP~A'A:TiON SPE~I~LISTS SINCE 1~3.8 ·Outside N.Y. State Only CALL TOLL FRE£:800~2234782 . Centers In MaJor US Cltl~s Toronto, Puerto Rico and Lueano, SWitzerland' l : .-. {• -~ ~ • •. maripower and funding ,shor- . specifically the pr.o.blem of take on the responsibility. tages Witltin his department, - -vandalism, 8 .problem which in . The RAs e~ressed _ dis~ay Mills stresses the .'\tieed for- . the pa~t- pad COJ1le· UJ:i~er the over the condition of the halls more finamclal support/' j~risdlctloil of lth~ Conduct aQd were told by the Housing claiming that recent budget Ombudsman Comrruttee. Office that the students on their incre~ses \only cover ,energy · • Director Mills, like every one floors woUld be given paint to cost increases.'' · -- · of us, kno'Ws that the limiting pafut the hallsiftheyso desired. Moreover, the new.method for factor behind vandali~ control The brunt of such a task woUld setting tbe budget this year has . is . that· ' 1 1J0t .er,ough of the inevitably fall on · the RA$\' . shifted s.omeoftbe power to set . vandals get caught.\ Because . further obfuscating .. their· , wor~ proiect P.riorities hom hi~ . such damage ·is eith~t tnfUct.e~ .· · · postt{op_s,, '.llge~ .. ~apnqt ·t~U wll~q :. ; .' _,\, __ ,; ...... ) :'/.· \:--·:~~~- •. :·;; ............. ~- .... •• _t·,--·~·;··._ ... :..~·--·\':··:·~ .. -~,~!-/i:,.~-·,_·,~~· _-t~ ;~ .· .. · 't·,:~\'.!-;_.;1·.::?!; • .,?- .. :···:2.--~~-::>:- .. ~ ~!~~:~· . .:\j'~·-( 4 _,.:::'-~-·; •• ~}.~~7.1;, .... ~.:.;.: __ i_,~.: . . j - a stt as t cond reali seric Frid nigh1 their their Da CODSI RAS vane mucl year ·serv1 HA's polic Di1 of th fourf - - that1 of in on t~ and 1 As RA mito1 funct can 1 to el forcE fines advis1 RA 'i down stude1 As RA's

0 n lt : .s •t .. - ... [}. a [} .. e . s s e:· e . f . 5 ' / OONOORDIENSIS, November 9, 1918 Page 5 An Ins-ide Viewpoint a student has damaged the hall, compromised position this year, as the halls are in such bad · and their reaction is one of condition to start with. The RAs general discontent. realize that van~alism is a As another source of dorm serious problem, ·especially on · damage,· Director Mills cites Friday, Saturday and Tuesday . _the ''unconscious damage\ nights, but do not feel that it is often inflicted by students upon their. ,resPQnsibility to p()lice College .property. As a ''major their floors continuously. '. item to bring out,\ he states Dave Wood, apparently . this: \if the building occupants conscious of th~ importance of cared a little m()te, resources HAs in the process. of curbing could be devoted less to putting vandalism, has demanded things backtogether and more much of those appointee~ this towards making things1>ettet.\ year. As Director Mills ob- · The no-pet arad no-cooking ·serve~, ''this is the first year statutes pertaining to dorm HA's have really been asked to . rooms and stringently enforced police things.\ this year by Housing Director Director Wood views the role Wood, impact directly on dorm of the RA's as being basically cosmetic upkeep, although such fourfold. Priniarily he believes is nottheir primary motivation. HPeeUng paint, worn carpets, broken and cracked windows~ -. , to concede this as the major .problem behind the re$olution of the tmusin~ issue. Interviews with Dave Wood, Richard Mills, and Robert Kellett, when cross- referenced,. made evident de.gr¢es. •of communication breakdown. This - com· munication problem exists amongst the administrators involving themselves with housing. Another communication gap exists between these ad- ministrators and the donnitory residents. As a viable way of alleviating this communication gap and providing \more student input to the Housing Committee,\ Dean Kellett recommends a dormitory governance system. According to Kellett, \governance in dormitories would contribute to better and more information.\ Kellett wants to re-establish . this system, which exists elsewhere and ·once existed here, at Union College. thatthe RA's should'be a source of information forthe students on the floor as well as a friend · and advisor in times of trouble. As secondary functions, the RA should police the dor- mitories and organize social functions. A potential problem can arise, however, if one trie_s~ to effectively combine an en- · forcer of rules and levier of Cognizant of these effects,. Mr. Dave Wood is now the vital Mills comments; \a dormitory cog in the housing machine, and is no p)ace for a pet. Period.\ it isto his initiative, or lack of it, and ''this department has been that the housing situation will pushing for that {no,-cooking) owe its future form. Clearly, since students started cooking Wood has taken .a hard-nosed in dormitories.\ approach to the execution of his The evolution of the dorm. office duties. Yet Dean Kellett problems tbemselve$ and the . · claims, by his \second-hand\ difficulties involved in finding . · sources, that students recognize solutions to them, have served the health and safety needs to f ·. which Wood's most visible ' fines along with a friend and advisor. The usefulness of an RA who is forced to \come down hard on misbehaving\ students is limited. · As a ,result of new policies, . RA's have been put· in a rather ; ~ . -..-:., . >~ . to illuminate some ad- ministrative problttms intrinsic · in the housing bureaucracy. The lack of communication between • · departm~nts seems to be one · major short-coming of the system. Dean Kellett is willing REMO'S UNISEX SALON ft•SeNJt£1Z£ • • JIIIIIH:Sl6N . FOR MEN&: WOMEN • PERMANENT WAVING • PRIVATE BOO'I1fS 374-7035 140 CLINTON ST. (JUST OFF StATE ST.) . SCHENECTADY, N.Y. '\ ........ t SANDWICHES TO EAT IN OR TAKE OUT TUES~ - SAT. 7 am - 7 pm . . SUN. - · 7 am - 3 pm (Take out ONLY) Phone 393-0617 . 1600 Union Str•t · SChtntctadv • N.Y. programs have been addressed. And if students are disgruntled with Wood's policies, they are keeping it to themselves, for as of October 31, only three students had spoken to Wood's direct superior, Dean Kellett, about housing problems. Kellett implores the students to give Dave Wood a chance at his new position, asking them to be tolerant of him as this is a new and different environment for hUn. Wood, moreover, is claimed by Kellett to be much concerned with his ~age and decidedly intent upon im- proving commwiications with students. In the short-run, housing difficulties at Union, if left unresolved, may have little more ill effect than a burgeoning student unrest. In the future, however, if Union is to compete with other in- stitutions for a limited number of students, its housing appeal must measure up. There is, then, a long-run imperative for improvement in campus housing conditions. Dean Kellett wants to make MENU 12\ Chenr Pizzo ................ , .. $2.75 16\ Chee~e Pizzo: ................. $4.00 12'' Deluxe Combo ......•.......... $4.-55 16\ Deluxe Col!lbo ................. $6.40 12\ W9rks Piua ..................... $5.45 W' Works Piuo, .................... $7.60 .ADDITiONAL. fTEMS • • -For 12\ • • 4St S..u.sali• Pepp•roni H9m Fotl6\ • • 60c Onions ·Green Peppera Mushroomil •Ground B .. ! Thic~ Crust the dorms attractive so that . attacked with fervor by students will remain on cam- Director Wood and com- pus. Kellett admitted he was plementary housing ad- aware that students could, by · mihistrati()n sources if this college policy, be compelled to · college is to continue to exist. reside on campus if this , Mere existence is a lousy way to becomes necessary. He .sin- live, however, Dormitories cerely hopes this will never · should be comfortable, not occur, avoiding consideration of : · ' · . livable. But are dorms · ... ·~~' ~~(--'') ·/ the fact that compulsory residency in decrepit housing is hardly a promiSing policy in the long-run. The hou8ing problem must be livable when one parent, upon viewing a hallway in Fox, is inclined to ask, \Does everyone here carry a ham- mer?\ .·committee Briefs College Center Committee The College Center Com- mittee is scheduling a clean-up day at Carnegie Hall this Friday, Nov. loth, starting at 1 : 30 p.m. Circle K is also · helping the conunittee in the painting of Carnegie's halls. Volunteers are welcome to help the Committee and Circle K. In addition, the conunittee is currently evaluating the building and looking into long range utilization of Carnegie Hall. 'IJlese plans include the possibte incorporation of a lecture hall within Carnegie Center. , The major focus of the committee's work in recent weeks has been the assignment of rooms in Carnegie Hall to · campus organizations. These assignments have been made on the basis Qf need, utilization of space and detrmination of the benefits the organization will br1ng .. Car~egie by the utihzatlon of 1ts space. Anyone interested in providing suggestions for further utilization of Carnegie is asked to submit their suggestions to the C<lnlmittee. Social Committee The Social Committee is sponsoring a square dance il1 OldChapelonNov.ll from 9:30 p.m. tol2:30. Ruth Rapport, a former Union student, will keep participants promenading all night to fiddle, banjo and guitar music. Ptmch and munchies will be served. Tickets are 75 cents and will be sold in ad- vance. The past weekend saw the participation of Union students in Vassar College's \Beerfest.\ The Union students who par- ticipated enjoyed the foods of Poughkeepsie area restaurants and relaxed with beef from all around the world. The day was an enjoyable experience for most participants. Continued on page 13 FREE DELIVERY WITHIN OUR DELIVERY AR~ (30 minute service) CALL,. 382-3838 Also 10 minute take out Counter Service OPEN DAILY r------·~--~---·-------------, i $-1.00 l \ 4 p.m ... 1 a.m. t I I OFF~. . I I ANY lARGf IPIZZA I 1 ·1 COtJpen .per plu:e l I Good now thru I I I I Nov. 12, 1978 I -~------~-~--------~~--~----J Fri. & sat. 4 p.m ... 2 a.;m.

.. Page 6, Belly dancer, a feature of last year's International Dinner. .Rail Service Established by JIM DAVIS Union students from the New York metropolitan are~. now have another way to get home from downtown Schenectady. Since Oct. 29, rail service nas been .inaugurated to New York City, as well as to Boston and points west. Presently, trains leave from a temporary terminal near the comer of Erie Boulevard and Libert Street. Train schedules are available inside the ter- minal, a converted gas station, but tickets are not sold. \Passengers can buy tickets on board the train at no ad~ ditional charge,\ said Bill Cook, a senior planner for the City of Schenectady, which donated the land where the permanent station wUl be built. Cook explained. \The state funding makes it attractive. And the new downtown station will be a full service one.\ He added that similar projects are underway in Niagara Falls and Rocheb1er. In addition to providing .funds for the construction of stations, the state bond .funds are being used to recondition and improve the condition of railroad tracks. \All of the track along. the Schenectady-New York route has been repaired,\ Cook said. He also noted that this will eventually cut about an hour off of the travel time to Grand Central \Right now, trains are only allowed to travel a maximum of 79 mph,\ he said. ''The newer trains in service on the route can travel up to 110 mph. By the beginning of 1980, track con- dition should be improved so 'trains can travel closer to their maximum speeds.\ · As we.U as being able to travel faster, trams' fare to New York City is also lower than buses'. A · one-way bus ticket to New York \ City costs $13.65 while a coach train ticket costs $11. Daily train service from downtown Schenectady to New York City_: depart Schenectady 9:16 a.m. 9:47a.m. 12:57 p.m. 6:47p.m. arrive New York City 1:10· p.m. 1:15 p.m. 4:25p.m. 10:45 .p.m. A New 'Experi,ence Due to its success last spring, the International Students Association (ISA). has planned another International Evening to be held on .Saturday, November 18. ~ Mohammed Raihani, ISA Chairman, stated, ''Last spring's International Event, which consisted of a menu of five main dishes, three salads, wine a~d Indian bread and Belly Danc.ers and Disco Da11cing for entertainment, was a success. But this year's evening promises to be even better since we have/ more student interest and more money, allowing us to improve the quality of both the food and the entertainment.\ The evening will begin in Hale Hot1se at 5:'30 p.m. with dinner . served from 6-8 p.m. The meou consists of main dishes and salads from such places as Scotland, China, -Spain, Romania, Swih;,e.rland, Jamaica, India, and Holland .. There will be Greek and Italian · breads, desserts from France, Canada, and England:, and punches of J arnaican and Puerto Rican origins. Algerian wine will also be served free of charge. The evening then shifts to the Old Chapel where an at- mosphere of a Mid~Eastern Cafe prevails over the- scene of candlelit tables and a full bar, serving, America.n and in· ternational drinks at minimal cost. The entertainment begins at 8:30 with twelve dancers ae• companied .Qy the Uvely sound of Scottish bagpipes. Then Yetapuni, a five man Armenian band that is well known for ptaying international. music· ranging from romantic Greek to Egyptian ,<Jancing music; takes the ~tage. Also, dancing. to the . ba11d will be LoAnda, Shem'· si'<la and.-Joanna 9 belly dancers who, due to last yeat's popUlarity, are making a return performance. The band wiU remain until 12 midnlght for any couples who wish to dance. Tickets will be on sale in Carnegie Hall, at the ISA booth and· Mrs. Marra'.$ o.ffice, beginning Monday; November 13. The full evening, including the meal, will cost $5.00_ per ' person presale. Tir;kets are available at the door for $6.00, however it is advised, due to last year'~ sell-out and the limited amount- of food. and seating, that tickets be pur- chased presale. Also, the special rate of--$9;00 per couple is only available in advanced tickets. Everyone is urged to attend the International Evening on the 18th as it promises to be a ... new experience\ for all. Four trains daily make the four hour run from there to Grand Central Terminal in New ·· York City. Passengers on one of them, departing at 9:16 a.m., can make connections to Boston. Another four trains arrive each day from New York City. ColloquiUm Presents Lecture Nov. 2 Schenectady-New York City trains also make stops in Albany-Rensselaer, Hudson, Rhinecliff, Poughkeepsie and Croton-Hannon. Plans call for a permanent terminal to be constructed near the site of the temporary downtown one in 1979, althoilgh rio exact completion date has been set, according to Dan Human; an Amtrak ad- ministrator. by PETER PERRIN As part of the continuing series of lectw-es sponsored by Union's Administrative and Engineering Colloquium, Professor Joseph A. Maciariello presented a talk on ''Accounting for Inflation for the Purposes of Management\ at 4 p.m. on Nov. 2. For the past six years the Administrative and Engineering Colloquium has been sponsoring these lectures relating to administration-in particular, health services administration. The colloquium, Union's Ph. D._ program, requires ·at- tendance of doctoral candidates .and welcomes any other people with interests in the particular topics. The topics usually relate to the ~cial sciences, but, at times, they concern , other disciplines. Most lecturers are drawn by Union's faculty. Professor Maciariello has served as an associate professor here since 1969. In his lecture, he made sense out ofsuch far-out equations as: SP(X)-VC(X) + FC(X). (If you attended the lecture, you should know what it means.) At the conclusion of the lec- ture, all of -the .economic , theories used by businesses for accounting were tom apart. ,and, according to Professor Maciariello, the most efficient method is not used at .all. The air of the lectme was informal with a few chuckles from the audience at certain points. At on.e hwnorous point it was noted that when a government commission recommends an accounting method that would lower taxes, it also suggests an _ accompanying tax rate hike; And, when someone in the audience had a comment or a question,-they just yelled it out. . As the audience.. left following an informal question and aQ: swer session, one could catch'• bits ~d pieces of hot debates on all levels from freshmen to seasoned pr;:ofessors. . · Today at 4 p.m. in Room 207 Bailey Hall promises to colne alive · once ·more when Betty. Goodman, director of placem~nt and career resourceshere •. speaks on \You and Getting the Job.\ Direct . rail service into Schenectady was discontinued in 1969. Until its reinstitution last month, the nearest station stop to Union was at Colohie. Three trains arrived and departed from there for New York Gity each day. 'Good Afternoon, Union College. • I • Part of the fmtding for th~ construction of the new downtown station, which will be located near the site of the one closed in 1969, is being provided by New York State. · \The money is. coming through the aau Preservation Bond Program,\ Cook ex· · plained. The bond was approved by voters in November, 1974. \By itself, Amtrak couldn't afford to construct a new station in downtown .Schenectady,'' by PETERPE1\RIN Anyone who has ever used a centrex phone on campus, which includes almost every student and faculty member, · has at one time or another called the operator for in- formation . ranging from what time the Glee Club rehearsal is to what SaDy Easy's number is. But, most people have no idea who the man or woman is that they are putting ·their trust in. During the weekday hours, Margaret Baldwin, Union's Tristana Here The Department of Modern Languages is sponsoring a free film for the entire campus community on Monday, .Novemberl3, at$:00 p.m. inSS· 016. The film, TRISTANA, by the famous SpaniSh direCtor Luis Bunuel, stars Catherine Deneuve, Fernando Rey and Franco Nero. The dialogue is in Spanish, with English subtitles. Produced in 1970, this was the first film Bunuel made in Spain since 1959 when his film VIRIDIANA won first. prize at Cannes, but was censored and never shown in Spain. · TRISTANA is based on a novel by the same name, written in 1892 by Spa~'s outstanding modern novelist Benito Perez Galdos. Students in Professor Judith Ginsberg;s nineteenth century Spanish literature course have read the original novel and will be comparing it with the film version. head operator with seventeen years of service under her belt, answers your call with a SWl• shiney voice. At other times, student workers answer in a number of ways: \Campus Operator,'' \Union Co1lege. May I help you?\ \Good Morning\ (at times this is said at3:30 in the afternoon after the weekend operator has seven and a half hours behind him). Margaret has .seen many student operators come and go and return to visit over her seventeen r.:ears. When· they v:isit, the memories all come back to ber. For instance, sbe will never forget the'time that an enterprising student painted footsteps coming doW!} Chester Arthur's pedestal and throughout the c~pus, in- Continued on pag~ 12 Margaret .Baldwin, Union's head operator, answers the phone. H< you' one Uni<J floor Th theic Wig€ floor Th one 1 Yes, \Sta. and Tc Gil chic~ expe4 1\f.!)Ul \Ton and: Mem Tlu be pa the p used each play barri: of Cl stage \Tc prodll sea so Robe1 desigJ Rhc co stu work' \Anti All\ l she rE costuJ tende4 Stage desig~ Prodtl Lace,~ SettlE \Che: \Tom \crea· realiSJ Job pente1 mo~t. perie1 struct MemCJ the 1 Paine' Ro& desigr: she~ the ll masb And design for se·

~ • tl· al at e• ld m iJf ic to ~s 1e t'· rs 's ~n lU IY in ih :. ~. lr lg ~r ·e ~. :o te d r- .e le d td ~n a e a g 1- ft·· 11 0 7 e Y\· f r ll e e ,t d r d l- l2 ./ ; - ' CONOORDIENSJS, November 91 19\18 Page \' Western Zoo-ology c: <II .>: <II How long has it been since you've visited the zoo? Not the one in the Bron:x, but rather Union's oWn zoo on the fourth floor of West College. · Theall•malefloor acting upon the ideas .of Matt Coben and Jeff Wiggins have created an entire floor of colorful murals. The designs, which consist of one geometric print, the Kinks, Yes, Jackson Browne, \Stairway to Heaven,\ Gene§is, and several comical features, ... - Q;,i .. ~- ~·· \' ..Q 0 0 if weredrawn by Matt, Jeff, Mark Kolenik, Mike Boucher and Rich Tanenbaum. The entire floor then com- bined efforts in a painting party. Gary Philipson, one of ' the resident advisors, described the ev:ent as \a .great success with,even the 'sicker elements' of the floor participating.\ Sqrprisingly enough, ·there weren't any major problems arising during the party until . late in the evening whena can of paint was . spilled. This, - however, was able to be cleaned from the carpet with very little trouble. The inhabitants of the fourth floor We~ invite everyone to come and -look at their ''masterpieces.'' Those who have already visited have returned with such comments ru~ \The artwork is terrific\ and \I love it!\ The constant creativity of the members .of the. floor will ·often provide you with more en- tertainment than just admiring the walls. Their recent contest s:: to win preview tickets to \Tom .= Paine,.\ is a clear example of :. this. Jeff Wiggins was declared i, the winner of the contest by ~ collecting a total of 16 ~ brassieres. Not<all of their ideas are this absurd,' but they are ~ usually just as exciting. f Watson Fellowship Nominees Announced Four Union College Seniors have been n~minated for the Thomas J. Watson Fellowship Program .for 1979~0. Professor ' Charles D. Swartz of the Physics Department annoWlced last. week that Peter Donlon, JudyKottke, Jacqueline Mazza and Bruce McKe·egan were the nominees. These four can-· -didat.e& will n(lw join 146 other nominees from 48 -colleges- and universit~s in the competition for ro . post graduate year of study abroad and trave1 \women and politics in England fellowships. and Italy.\ Bruce Me Keegan is These four seniors we•:e a political science-German selected from 16 applicants. The major and wants to study \four applicants were reviewed by election campaigns in West the selection committee which Germany.\ consisted of Professors The fellowships will be Bashore, Evans, Millilo, decided upon by John C. Elder, Nelson, B. Reynolds and Watson Fellowship Director, · -Swartz. The nominees were who will interview the nominees ·chose on·sct .... 22: on Nov. 16. The winners will be .. Petet'DonlG.n is an Economics annoWlced in March. major and- wishes f\<t_- st~,~ay · • The fellowships .. program \amusement parks and faits in -·began m 1968 to- ·~enable college England and Switzerland.\ graduatesofunusualptomiSeto Judy Kottke is a music major engage in a post-gtl\duate year.~ ... and' wants· to observe \folk ~f ~dependent study and travel music and instrument building abr~ad.\ Union has consistently in Africa.\ Jacqueline Mazza is done well in the fellowships._ At Torri' Paine Features Speciolti~s Giant puppets, lasers, . chickens and turtles-all are expected t() be· a part of the' M.9untebanks' production of \'romPaine'' Nov .. 9 through 11 and 15 through 18 at the Nott Memorial Tb~atre. The chickens and turtleS. will be .pa~ of the_ stage effects for the play, while a laser. will be used for lighting. The puppets, each about 14 feet high, will play the parts of \t:}1ree barristers\ and are the creation of Charles Steckler, resident stage designer at Union. \Tom Paine\ is the first production of the .Montebanks' season. Joining guest director Robert Waltet· are six guest designers and artists. They are: Rhonda Seidman, guest costume designer. She has worked on productions of \Antigoneu and \Mother of Us All\ at Queens College, where she received her B.A. in theatre costume design. She has at- tended the Polakov Studio of Stage Design and was costume designer for the Stage Comapny Production of il Arsenic and Old Lace,\ and for the Henry Street Settlement's production of \Chelm; and ''Onury., In \Tom Paine,\ she says, she is '~creating a . blend of stark realism with· sheer fantasy.\ John Shane, master car- penter. From Arlington, Ver .. mont, he . has had Wide ex- perience in · theatre con- struction, and ealls the Nott Memorial \the perfect set for the presentation of 'Tom Palne'.'' · Rosemarie Amendolia;. prOp designer. From Schenectl!dY, she is designing and building the puppets and numerous mask$ requited for the play . . Andrea Wilson, lighting designer. She has, done lighting for seven road shows,. five off- \ Broadway shows in New York, and five Broadway shows. She also has worked . on A Party With Comden and Green/' \The Merchant,\ \Cleo Laine at the Menskoff,\ \Jose Feliciano at the Palace\ and Rod Me Kuen at Philhannonic Hall.\ Bill Farancz, graphic artist. 'The operator of a graphic arts shop in New York City called \The Friendly Pumpkin.\ Farancz is also ·a consultant on theatre graphic designs and a teacher as well. For the Union production .he will design and print a poster using five dif- ferent processes--collage, silkscreening, splatter4tgs of \blood and color-xero:xing. The posters., he says· will \reflect the entire show and its meesage.\ Thr.ee.~Pnds will be made: one kind for ad:ual posting, one to be sold for $2 . ( withollt the color xeroXing process), and a signed and nllnibered limited series of 115 (with color xeroxing) to be sold for $7.30 'The backstage crew for \Tom Pailie\ include$ .the folowing Union students: Vern Wet·· more, assistant director and stage manager; Dan Rosen- field, technical• director; Bill Hunter, assistant technical director;. Jim Manning, photographer; John Gaines, carpenter; and Bruce Levin, animal ~pecialist. , - Tickets are $.50 for Union ~udents and Union professors and $1.50 for other students for Wednesday and Thursday performances; and $2.00 for faculty and other students and $1.55 for Union students on Fridays and Saturdays. Tickets are available at the Nott Memorial Box Office, open Mondays through Saturdays from l to 5 p.m. and per· formance nights from 7 to 8 p.m. Curtain time is 8 p.m. for all _ shows except Saturdays, when sh?ws begin a\7 and 10 p.m. Quick Care by JEFFREY SPITZER The health services office has started a program whereby students can receive free medication for minor ailments. 'Vnion students· can now go, to · -Silliman Hall to. s,ign · out . medication without an examination. The program,.started October 17, provides \quick service for the coillmon cold.\ Medication for ailments such as general malaise, nasal stuffiness, cough and a sore throat.are available. 'lbe office is open between 8:30 a.m. and 5 p.m. on week- daY$. Students can sign out aspirin, cough syrup, saline moutbwash, and other medication. Says Head Nurse · Doris Richards, \Students .often do not receive the necessary medication because they do not want to wait on line.\ Students can now get im~ mediate relief without waiting. a political science-economics least once, three out of the foUr major and · wants to study nominees won fellowshlps. J.S.O. Hillel by ARYEH & YONA This past week, the J.S.O. Hillel held its first movie of the year, \The Fixer\ in SS 016. A crowd of approximately 150 attended this very poignant fihn which depicteQ the Bailess trial in 19th century Russia. More movies are planned for the Winter. Next week on Nov. 16, Simon · Wiesenthal, the famed Nazi hunter Will be speaking in Memorial Chapel at 8 p.m. His talk, sponsored by the J;S.O. Hillel, Speakers Forum, and the History Department, is entitled \''Murdered Among Us!\ A large crowd is expected. Tickets will be 75 cents with Union I.D. and $1.50 for all others. ·r~-:\~f :\. ' \~.\ ~t10N ('(.Itt. ... ~\'-N t.o~~ . ' ~.· <%;< ·,..~\'=--'' . • .~ ~T~~~\'*·\'\\'\\\*~ ., ., \ The day following Wiesen- thal's speech, Nov. 17, we will be holding our second Shabbat Dinner of the year. Speaking will be Prof. Stephen Berk of the Union llistory Department. His topic willbe \the Middle East: Peace or War?\ Please call 31().;6623 or 377-6205 by Wed- nesday Nov. 15 to make a reservation for the dinner. The cost will be $2.00 for members and $3.50 for non members. Finally, the J.S.O. Hillel would like to wish a bon voyage to Gary P. and Audrey S. who . will be attending the General Assembly of Federations in San Francisco from Nov. 8-12. The General Assembly is one of the most impottant events 9for the ~erican JeWish Community. ...........

.. Page 8 . . . (IMPORTANT: This exam schedule is for regular, ''da;y'' undergraduate courses. A separate schedule for Graduate Studies and Continuing E~ucation courses will be an- nounced, and students in ''Section 51'' courses should be alert for the an- nouncement of the exam time for those ·courses, excluding Statistics 201, section 51, and Adm. & Mgt. 206, section 52, which are included here.) . . Conflicts in examinations should be reported to Mrs. Lapidus in the Office of the. Registrar not later than Monday, November 27, 1978. Examinations will be held in the assigned rooms. Listed below is the code of the buildings to be used. AB--Arts Building BH--Bailey Bali BU--Butterfield Hall HU·-Humanities Building N--North Wing-Science-Engr. Center OC·-Old Chapel PY--Psychology Laboratory SS--Social Sciences Bldg. SH --Steinmetz :aan Monday, Dece1nber 4 9:00 -11:00 A~M.· F're$hman Preceptorial 10--Perception and Persuasion, Sec. 5--Tobiessen--BH 102 Liberal Learning 60--Sp~cial Topics in Geology--D. Stone--N 116 Greek tO--Principles of Greek--OueUette-- HU 104 Economics tO--Elementary Economics Sec. 2--Phapu--SS 117 Sec. 3--Prosper--SS 115 English 119--Major English Authors 1-- Murphy--HU 114 .. English 160--Literature of the 18th Century-- Bradish--HU 1.15 History 10--History and Society: The Emergence and Character of Traditi.onal Civilization--Hansen, Wells--SS 012 History. 86--Historical Classics--Briston--SS 113 ' . French 10--Basic French I--LeClerc--HU 112 German 10--Basic German I--Kellenter-·HU 117 Spanish 10-·Basic Spanish 1--Ginsberg--HU 110 Spanish 133--The Spanish Language in Practical Use I--Rawe--HU 016 Philosophy 38--0riental Philosophy--Patrik- ·HU 019 Sociology 10--Introduction to Sociology, Sec. 2--Kaplan-:-SS 014 . Sociology 1~2--Symbolic Interactions-- Downing--BH 201 · Statistics tO--Introduction to Statistics--S. Schmidt--SS 112 Biology 11--Topics in Contemporary Biology--Lambert-~BH 207 Ohemistry 160--Physical Chemistry 1-- Hayes--N 222 Mathematics SO--Ordinary Differential Equations (Honors Course for Math & Science Majors)--Zwicker--BH 203 Mathematics100--0rthogonal Functions and Boundary Values-~eiken--BH 106 Phyalcs 11--I~trodu~tion to Physics I (Biology, Science.-Humanlties and: Social Science Majors)--NewmannSH 110 OONOORDI1i)N818; NQvember 9, 19\18 · . . . . . F···· LL .. Fl Physics 13~-Intro(luction. to Physics II (Phys:ical Science a~d Engineering Majors)-~Schwarz-~SH106 Physics15-.:Principles of Modem Physics I·· Pilcher-•SH 219 Psychology 10-~A First Psyehology Sec. 2--Nydegger--PY 102 Sec. 8--D. Allen--PY 213 Course in Psychology 24 .. -Social Psychology·- Downing--BH 201 Psychology 31--Abnormal Psychology-- Spring-- :PY 118 - \ .E.S. 10-·Mechanics I-\Pfkul--BU 109 . ' Economics 1·63--The Economics of Health~- Ctillinan--HU 019 · · ~. . . _ · English 163--Lite.rature of the English Renaissance--Stev.enson--HU 116 History 14--Colonial Period ot America, 1607 -1776·- wens-~ss 012 · History 65--La:Un America Since 1825-- Bristol-·SS 113 History 159\-The .soviet Period-~Berk--Ss 117 French 2o-.=.tntensfve Fren'Ch·-LeClerc--HU 112 . . . . . .. French - 132--Masterw'nrks of French Literature--Jemakoff--HU 117 Russian 10-·Basic ·Russian I --.Jemakoff~-HU . 117 ( . Spanish 146--Special Topics til Hispanic Literature: :rtomanticism and Realism- .. Qlnsberg--HU 110 · .· · E.S. e2--Science of Engine~rlng Materials-- - Sociology · ~P·~·soclolqgy . ·of the\ Family-- . Kaplan--.ss 01~ . · · . . . . · Milillo--SH 101 . E. S. 24--Electric Circuits, Sec. 2-·Chang- .. BH.108 E. S. 34•-Systems Analysis-·Jewell--BU _106 C.E. 42--Soil Mechanics\'·Harlow--BU 100... Computer Science ·12--Introduction to Computer Programming--Gajjar-- BU 204 AOP 8--Pre-calculus Zinicola--BH 104 Mathematics-- Mo·n·day, December 4 2:00 - 4:oo·P.M .. Art 17--Photogra.phy 1--Fasulo--AB 316 Economics 1~-·E:aernentary Econom-ics See. 1--Wiese--ss 016 Sec; 4--Wiese--SS·016 English 167--Modern British and Ame-rican Poetry--McCord--HU 110 Spanish 12--Basic Spanish III--Vinick--HU 112 Philos.ophy ··4-e ... Eth:ics--BaJter--HU 117 Adm. & Mgt. 160--Fundame,ntals of Behavioral S'cience-.-Griesin~er~ .. BH 102 Adrn. & Mgt. 206--0ptimization Models for Managerial Decisions, Sec. 52--0elaney-- BH 104 . Ps-ychology 62·-~ract4-eum i'n Human Relations--Girdner;..py 213 · • . 1 • ~ C.E. 20--Land Measurements.:. Theory and Applicatio:h--Male--BU 104 .TueSday, . . December 5 ' . 9:00- ll:OOA.M. F.E. 66·-Intelligent Life in the Universe-- Schick--BU 109 Liberal Learning 11--MascuUsm · and Feminism--Patrlk-·SS 010 Liberal Learning .83--Stereo, Tereviston·and Electronics--Craig--BU 204 Classics 24--Greek Art and Civilization ... Reece--SS 016 , liJconomics 134·-Financial Analysis-· Prosper--SS 115 ··• American St~i~s ·Jo-.-Survey .of American Cult1,.1re l••Nye-·SS 112 · · Biology 61-·Ecology .... Qeo~ge~-BH 207 · Biology ~5o~·Evolutionary Blology--J. Boyer•-BH 205 , BiolOfJY 16B:·OeUular Neurophysiology-- Lambert--N 116 - Math~-matios.18--IntroductiQri to Logic ~nd Set Tl'J.eory--Reynolds--13H 104 1-?hysics 42-~preat fdeas of Moqern Physics-- Ohanian-•SH-100 . ·.- · · Psycholpgy 10·-A First·· Course , in Psychology, ·Sec~ 5i·Girdrier--PY ).02 · , · · Ps'Jichology 35--0rganizatiortal Psychology-- D. Allen·-PY 113 . _ . , · · ;; P$y;c·holofly · 37·-Psychology · through Literature~-Calabria-- PY 213 .. E .. s\ ~~:.6·-';fh~:r-mod,~namfc·s._ · and Heat T:ransfer-·Shanebroox-~sa-uo · Computer Science t7--Introduction . .to Computer Science, Sec-.. 2~-Ingvarsson:-sH: 10it Tues-day, December.5 2:00- 4:00P.M. \ • . ' qo. . • Latin 10--Principles of Latin--Hendricks\~ HU 110 Ohinese 10--Basic Intensive Chinese I--Suen- ·HV016 _ German 12-.:Basic German III-~ Warde.--HU 117 . \ Political· Science 12--Contemporary In- 1temational Politics. Sec::- 2--Brown--SS 112 Sociology 10~-Introduction to Sociology, Sec. 1--Weiner-·SS 115 , Biology 1.~--Biology · of Animals--Core 1-- Roth--SS 016 - QioZogy 32•-comparative Vertebrate . Anatomy-..Sch!J.dler--HU 019 Biology 54--Chordate Embryology-- Rappaport--N 222 . Chemistry 40·-Quantitative Chemistry-- Wier--SH 101 Geology 51--0ceanography-.:Zimmerman-- Bl] 109 Physics- 18--Introduction to Physics II (Biology, Science, Humanities and Social Science Majors)-~Lichtehstein-·SH 106 Psy.choZogy ,10-·A First Course in Psychology, Sec. 1--Huntley--PY 102 - E. s. 14·-Introduction to Computer · . Programming--Deallenbach--HU 115 · E.S. 16--Engineering Graphics and Com- -puters Sec. 1--Ullman--BU 204 ~Sec. 2•sEisenstadt--BU 204 B.S. 2'4.- .. E'lectric CircuitS; Sec. l··Russ--SH 100 . C.S. · 14-•Introduction to COBOL and In- formation Processlng--T. Schwarz·-BH 207 . ..,...,. 9 . • Fre~ Per: Ji}co Sec. Eco~ B.. F Eco Rela Eng, LiteJ Engl ,Ante Engl Uto};l Hist« 1885- Hist( Era- Hist( ss lJ Fren 110· PoUl Arne: PoU1 terns Po lit· Bro\ Biol( Laml Bioto BioZo py 2 Chen Weic: Matli Math Math Fa.i:rc Phys: 106 Psyc Psycl Sec Se.c E.S.: E.S. Chan; O.E. Harle O.l!J . . E.E. 109 M.E. BingJ:: M.E. Desig Com1 Comp 204 / AOP O'Con ~ I 2:~ Olass1 IftJ ll Ec.on1 Phau1

7 b. 'E.D '· •• • •• • •• • • • • •• • Wednesday, December 6 Freshman Preceptorial10--Perception and Persuasion, Sec. 8--Zwicker--BH 205 Economics 11--E.lernentary Economics, Sec. 1•:-S. Schmidt--ss 112 · Jilconomics 131- ... Microeconomic Analysis,·- B. Reynolds·-HU 019 · · - · Bconomics · 132:--La.bor and lndustrial Relations--Prosper\'·SS ·115 English 118~-Introduetion to the Study of Literary- Forms-- Pawelczak--HU '114 Eng~ish 122--Major An;J.erican Authors••The American Renaissance-·McCord·-HU :117 English 142--Studies:- in Special Topics: Utopia--Heinegg--HU 116 History 18 ... Emergenee of Modern America, 1885-1929--J:onas--ss 113 . History 35-~Europe · in the Early Modern Era--Hansen--SS 012 History 181-·Modem Jewish History--Berk·- SS 117· . _ . French 12--Basic French III-·LeCl:erc-~:SU 110· - PoUticuZ · Scien.ce. 11·-Contemporary American ,Politics, Sec. 2--Keeter-•HU 112 _ Political Sc-ience .U--Contempo.rary In· ternational Politics, Sec.1·-Jolmson-·HU 115 Political Science 166-·Presidential Politics-~ Brown--SS 014 . Biology ·Le--The Cell--Co·re Iii--Smith, Lambert--ss 016 Bioiogy 145-·Protozoology--.Styles,,N ~16 . Biology 158-·Plant MOrplJ.ology--Frohlich·· PY 2041 -- ' . . ~ Oliemistry 118- .. Inorganic Chemistry III-- Weick--BU 106 · .. . Matliema,tics ·57--The Nature of Mathematic·s--Ta-ylor--BH 104 Mathematics 136--Real Variable Theory I-- Fairchild--BH. 108 Physics 134·- Physical Optics••Swartz--SH 100 ' Psychology , 10-~A First Course in Psychology . Sec. 3--Calabria--PY 113 Sec. 4-·Downing--PY 102 E.S. 20--Mechanics H--Ullman--BH 201 E.S. 21--Introductory Electric Circuits-- Chang--BU lOQ - O.E. 41--Legal Aspects ·of Engineering-- Harlow--BU 300 . O.JJJ. 45--Water Resources--Snow-·BH :).02 E.E. 30·-System Theory 1-.:Goodheart--BU 109 M.E. 30--Dynarnics of Linear· .. Systems-- Bingham--BH 207 · . M.E. 144--Solar Energy .Analysis .and Design--Aubrey--N 222 Computer Science . .z:t·-Introduc~ion to Computer &cience, Sec. 1·-Goldbogen--BU 204 / A OP 09--Critical Reading and Writing-· O'Connor--HU 014 ' Wednesday,·· ·, Decelllber 6 .. OQNOOR,DIENSIS, November 9, 1918 Page 9 E .. ·~ ... . . . ' . . . . . . ' . . . ' . . ~ ' . . ' . ' - ' . - . . Ge.~an 1Q--Basic German I, Sec. 2--Warde· -HU 112 . . . ... 1 r-·HU Philosophy 43--Metaphysics Tay o 117 Political Science 10--Contemporary Political Analysis--Board-·SS 115 E. s. 30--Mechanics of Deformable Solids-- Pikul-.:Btr 109 O.E. 35--Wa.ter Resources and the En- vironment (For Non-majorsJ--Sno:w--BU 204 E. E. · 151--Digltal Systems Concepts-- Hoffman--~H 100 Oo'.mputer Science 24-·Assenl.bly'and_Bloc:U. Structured Programmlng--Hannay--BH 201 AOP 01--College Science--Burr--BH 106 Thursday, DeceDiber 7 9:00 - ll :OOA.M. History 112--Soc·tal Aspects of American Capitalism--Fil1.kelstein•-SS.113 Mathematics· 10:..-Calculus I Sec. 1--Gill~tte--:su 109 Sec. 2--Ric~--BH201 Sec. 3-·Bick--BH 203 Sec. 4--David--BH 207 Sec. 5--Cole--BH 205 Sec. 6~-Stone-.;SS 012 .Sec. 7--Strait--SS 012 -.Sec. g:.stone--HU 115 See. 9--~eUte.n-·BH :1,08 - Sec. 10-~Taylor•-ss 115 Sec. 11--Delaney--BH 106 Sec. 12-·GIEmn-~ss 112 Sec. 13--Taylor--SS ·115 Mathematics 12•-Calculus II Sec. 1--Reynolds--BH 104 ·Sec. 2--Stone--HU 115 . Mathematics 14--Calculus III Sec.. 1·-Strait·-SS 012 Sec. 2--Fairchild--BH 102 Sec. 3--Gillette--BU 109 Mathematics 3o- -Ordinary Differential Equations . Sec. 1--Glenn--ss 112 Sec. 2-Rice--BH 210 Mathematic-s 41·-Lineaz:_Algebra I. Sec. 1-·David--BH 207 · Sec. 2--Cole--BH 205 Thursday ~- Decen1ber 7 2:00- 4:00_P.M. Music tO--Introduction to Music--Wilson--, AB 202 Economics 11--Elementary Economics, Sec. 1--s. Schmidt--ss 112 lflng.lish 125--Introduction to Shakespeare-- Stev,ensen--HU 115 · Hebrew 133--The Hebrew Language in Practical Use--Heckelman--HU 114 Philosophy 1'2--Philosophical Problems-- Baker--HU 116 Statistics tO--Introduction to Statistics-· Holmes•-BH201 Statistics 202--Statistical Methods, Sec. 51-- Mac:Farland--BH 208 Psychology 38--Developmental Psychology- •Britain--PY 213 Psyc·hology 48-·Clinical Models of Psychotherapy 1--Dowling--PY 113 Friday, Dece111ber 8 9:00 ~- ll:OOA.M. Philosophy 20--Classical Logic--Peterson-- H'U l12 Accounting 10-·Accounting--Hurley--BH 207 Ohemistry tO--Fundamental Chemistry I Sec. 1·-Anderson--J.!U 204. S~c. 2·-Wemer--BU 204 Sec. 3-~Schaefer--BU 204 Sec. 4-·Hull--BU 204 Sec. 5-·Schaefer--BU 204 Physics 11--Introduction to Physics I (Physics and Engineering Majors) Sec. 1--Schick--SS 115 Sec. 2--Schick--SS 115 Sec. 3-·Jones--SH 106 E .E. 1593--Microprocessors and Microcomputers: Architecture, Sec. 1-- Hoffman--BH 201 Friday~ Decetnber 8 2:00 -4:00P.M. Fr-eshman Preceptorial tO--Perception and Persuasio.n, Sec. 1--Bick--BH 205 Art ~0-·Introduction to Art History 1·-Bush-· ss 016 English 115--The American Novel I-- Bynack--HU 112 2:00 - 4:00P.M. / English 169--Modern British Fiction--Davis- ·HU 117 Chemistry 30--0rganic Chemistry I Sec. 1--Sheffer--BU 204 Sec. 2-~M:artin--BU 204 ' Classics 931--History of Oreece--Hendricks-- If(J 116 . Economics 1-ft-·Monetary· 11Jconomlcs\- Phaup-.ss u.s - English 1993--Semlnar: American Literature 1--Bynack--HU 112 Heb·rew 10--Basic Hebrew I·-Heckelman-· au 114 . \ B.S. 18-.;The Digital Computer, Sec. 1·· Ingva:rs-son--BH 207 .E.S. 30--Mecha:nics of Deformable Solids-- PanlUio--SH 219

Page 10 ,cultu byCAN·DOMONOSSON Mildred sat and ·stated at her coffee pot for hours. This ob- servation might have continued ·for an indefinite period if not for the jarring ring of the telephone. \Hello.\ · \Mlldrtfd I'd like you to pick me up at work today.\ Her husband's voice was ca,sual yet demanding. \Okay. But first let me finish my coffee.\ Three hours later he burst through the front door. ( OONOOBDIENBIB~ November 9, 19'18 \You see! All you care about is that miserable dachound.'' \That's not what I meant. I thought you liked the dog.;' \I do. But 'Arf' tends to wear as intellectual conversation.\ \Where are all your friends?\ \Those lumps? Who cares. Talking to them is like washing the same laundry three times in a row.'' Tom was beginning to understa11d Mildred's predicament. \We're all filled up at the moment.\ • \Every place I talk to says the same thing.\ \So that's what you' were doing this afternoon ... working .for a telephone soliciting . agency. Well, there's .nothing wrong with that as long as they foot the phone bill . . . '' ' 1 Sorry Tom, that's not it. I drank coffee. Nothing else.'• Tom was baffled. \Why don't we sit down and discuss this.\ ''We are sitting down.,; , ''Where are my senses?''' thought Tom. cellophane barrel for you.'' . Emotion was overcoming the- unwitted man. \Come Oil; cut the corn and let's talk tui'kt)y. Okay, J'v(! gone a bit ec<!erttric stuck in this house for so l()ng. I want .out. That's all.\ \Fo:m felt shot doWn. \How bitterly abrupt you can be at times.\ Mildred realized that her assault had not been subtle enough-. \I'm sorry, 1'om. I'm just so confused.'' \I can seet)lat.\ The couple sat in silen~e for a few moments. Then an idea struck Tom like an out of control Ford pickup. \Lcok I know a guy down at · work who's writing a book and could use some help editing and poJiishinglt up. Po you think you want to try it?\ Tom's hopeful countenance was answered with an ackno:wedging smile froll1 his wife. After a flash of Wistful eye contact, they embraced. . LATER \Would you like a cup of coffee, Mildred?\ \Ha ha, Torn.\ \Wbere the hell were you?? I sat in front of my office 'for two and a balf hours waiting for you to pick me up before I gave up and took the bus. I wouldn't have minded so much if it wasn't pouring out and a wayward pelican hadn't decided to show me what he had for dinner last night. Look at my new j'acket. It'JS ruined.\ Mildred eyed the large gooey splotch on her husband's left ''It seems to me that you have reached a ·crossroad in your life. You must now decide whether you want to be caught in this housewife grind forever or do you want to go into a profession.\ This thought had never occurred to her. Mildred imagined herself extracting molars from an innocent ennugh looking eight year old, an image quickly followed by one of beil'tg rushed to the hospital to have several of her \Then let's move to another room. Maybe when you're out of sight of the coffee pot you '11 be a different person. · E - ' • · nv1rons · ·sleeve. He was right; even dry cleaning ·couldn't he)p that mess. ' \So where were you?\' Mildred had to think fast. She couldn't tell him that she had gotten into an accident for there were no dents and the car was stm dry from remaining in the garage. She couldn't tell him her mother stopped by, for her mother lived in Vienna; nor could she say the same for his mother because he was an orphan and had been left with his aunt. She had to tell the truth. fingers sewn back on. · \There must be_..,· other alternatives.'' \There are others, sure. But do you want to become a clerk? .. A dishwasher? ·A .college campus security officer? They're not much better than what you're doing now.\ \At least I'd be getting out of the house. Look, I don't want years of training. I know all I want to know already. Isn't there something I can do down at the office?\ Tom was about · to offer her a secretarial spot, until he remembered that he already had one. \I don't want to move, I like this room.\ \All right, have it your way. But I'm leaving. This is mad- ness. Arthur's wife would never do anything like this.\ \I thought they were getting divorced.\ ' \Yeah but at least they have their differences oyer typical matte,rs. Y'know, cheating on ., .each other, hating e~ch others family. Socially i!;cceptable things like that.\ , · · ''You'd like rather have me cheat on you than spend my time drinking coffee?\ ''Well ... I don't know~ That's a stupid question. No, I don't want you to cheat on rne. I love you, darling. You mean more to ll1e · than . anything else in the world. I'd go over the falls in a After our . e;xperience w~th Italian cars1ne, ·Environs editors decided tD try some food a little lighter ()n the stomach • some Chinese delight at the Golden Drag<m Restaurant, located on State Street right before Monawk Mall. Needless· to say, our &'li~ht meal\ could only be tenned. a food orgy. For dinner the Golden Dragon, offers the Chin-ese Regulars, aU IUnds of Chow Mein; Loo Mein Egg FooYotlllg,ChopSuey and fried rice, 1~ l.'\easona\)ie prices ranging fr()m $4.25 to $5.50, including U 11ion or . Egg Drop Soup as appetizers. For people who have never had Chinese food before and want to test a variety of dis'lles, the Golden Dragon offers family dinners .for $5.95 per person. These \I had to finish my coffee.\ \Yeah ... and then what?\ \That's it.'' \What~s it?\ \I had to finish my coffee.\ \It tQok you two and a half Reed, Floyd: Yes and No·; - . hours to finish a cup of coffee? You could have finiShed twenty cups of coffee inthat time. What are you, Jumbo the coffee drinking elephant?\ Mildred now thought that her veracity was not such a hot idea. ''Tom, it's very ha~d to ex- plain ... \ \Oh no ... I can understand taking two and a half hours to drink a cup of coffee. I can also understand Jupiter landing in our backyard and asking if Uranus is around. · Hard to l '?Nah \ exp am. . • .. \I like my coffee.\ \I like it, too. But I set my Jilnits.'' \Youdon'tknowwhatit'slike to be set aside in this houSe all day with nothing to do but . to guess if Barbara is going to marry Tim on \Love of Life,\ or if your dog is going to make . at three o'clock or four. Yesterday I was bargaining on Barbara leaving Tim and eloping with the dog. \Now now, there's llO reason to get upset. ~esides, since when is it my dog?, by }JOB BLAKE I was going to review the new live Lou Reed album \Take· no Prisoners\ this week, but it is such apathetic L.P. thati didp't want to wa~te my time reviewing it. Not even Lou's ·most dedicated fans (i.e. himself and his mother) would want to go near his new album, even with a ten-foot pole. It is an album only for those who wish to waste their good money on the most rotten trash.) As a rule I usually don't buy solo L.P .s from musicians who are from a large established band because they are usually mediocre on the whole, or only partially good at best. The solo L.P.s from the members of Yes and the Who are best illustrative of this, although the \Rough MiX\ album by Peter To'WJlshend and Ronnie Lane of last year is an outstanding L.P. in every way. Other exceptions to this rule are the solo albums~ from I the members of Pink Floyd which are currently being Buy Your Record at the Caqa.pus Storel· NEW ARRIVALS: 1. Blue Oyster Cutt SOME ENCHANTED EVENING 2. Karla .Bonoff KARLA 'BONOF F 3. Elton John A $J NGLE MAN 4. Steely Dan STEELY DAN-G~EATEST HITS 5. Kansas TWO FOR THE SHOW SUGGESTED BUYS: 1. Chicago HOT STRE.ETS 2. Commodores· NATURAL HI·GH 3. Billy Joel .52nd $TRE I:T . 4. Meat Loaf BAT OUT OF Hl!tL 5. AI Stewart TIME PASSAGES PARTY! PARTY! PARTY!!! l. Soundtrack. of THE ROCKY HORROR PICTURE SHOW 2. Original Motl.on Ptcture Soundtrack of NATIONAL LAMPOO.WS ANIMAL HOUSE released. There are two Solo albwns out by the group members now. There is the recently released David Gilmour album, simply entitled \David Gilmour\ and a brand new release by Rick Wright called \W~t Dream.\ Both albums are ·similar in fortn, containing a combination of instrumental and lyrical numbers, with no emphasis on either one. • \Wet Dream\ by Rick Wright, the keyboard player for Pink Floyd, while not being a great album, is still a very pleasing one. For the most .part it is slow, jazzy and freeform: My major complaints with the albtun are that some of the songs are fairly weak on melody and Wrigllt's keyboard playing, known for its inventivene~s while playing with the Floyd, is kept plain and basic on this album. To counter-. this, however, the album is' laden with excellent playing on saxophone and .flute from Mel · COllins, a.td guitar playing from Snowy White, the· Floyd'.s backing guitarist on their last tour. Wright!s voice is an un~ polished but effective one that is particularly touching oil the tracks \Against the Odds\ and \Pink's Song\ .. yet another ode to Syd Barrett. David Gilin~llr, the guitarist for the Floyd, bas released :an outstanding L.P. Perhaps what surprised metliemost about the album upon ~Y first listening was just bow \Yell Gihnour can play. This is ~ot to say that Gilmour pr()ve~ he is a great virtuoso guit~rist on this albtlin (which he is r:Jot }, but it cer- tainly shows llim worthy of critical consid~ration . The music has thi:it very spacey 'Pink ?loyd' sound to it, altb~ugh it is more uptempo. With the exceptions of \Mihalis\ aiJd \Cry From the Street\ the songs are all ;Of a consistently high quality,. with \Short and Sweet~' outstanding. If this were a new Pink Flovd album, at l~st from a musical standpoint,' it woUld be their finest effort in years. · With these two fine albums out I am eag--erly awaiting to see what the otber members of the band will d(). I am particularly interested to see /what the bassist and -brilliant lyricist of the Floyd, (Wger Waters, will come out witll. I venture to predict that his will be ·tne best of the ·solo ·effgrts. Free Concerts The concerts of the chamber . music. .series sponsored · an:. nually by the College and the Schene~tady Museum · ar~ always open free to students, faculty and staff o. f >the C.ollege, Dean· Nelson has announced. The concerts for the -rest of the year · Will feature flutist James Galway and the New IriSh Chamber- Orchestra (Nov, '25), 'f.ne ;Bartok.Strlng Quartet (J,an. 11), -~l!lrpist Nicanor Z&baleta (Feb;. 27)., and 'The . Borodin Str'ii)g -Quartet . with · pianist John ~llt'triCk on April 20. All concerts are at 8:30p.m., and admissi~rt trJ members ·()f the college c::ornmunity is .free 11pon presemtation of an I.D. eatd. · family dinners are generous portions of such combinations as Chow Mein, and Roast Pork, :arasedtDuck and Shrimp, Fried Rice or Pepper Steak.- and · Chicken Cantonense style. We must admit that to fully enjoy the . Golden Dragon's specialities, the Union st!ldent should go all the way and order · the Ex-otic Platters at the Golden Dragon. These may cost a little bit more but the taste is well worth it. The best start is the P:U-PU pl!itter for two, -whicQ. is barbaqued spare: ribs, egg,ro1ls, Sirloin ·sauted; fantail shrimp and shrimptoast. As an appetizer, the PU-PU platter~ should only be ordered by ·those with aitearty appetite, for: it's a fine meal in itself. For a main course tile exotic platters range from Lobster War Bar, the Dragon Seafood Special, Lychee Duck to ChOi Sue Delight (Roast Pork in Oyster sauce). ·The ·Four Season's. Peligbt is great· for anybody that 'llecoihes bored. with one taste 7 . (or :it consists of roast pork, lobster, chicken and beef all tog~tbert .·(The· w-at~r chestnuts ·· blend ·these .ingredients together to give it a mellow . taste) -These ex:~tic delights .will cost between $6;95 to fS.OO and consiSt of very large quantities of food. While at the Gold'en Dragon, the only disappointment one . should expect is receiving the fortune cookie that says ''the world loves a gay person\ as l did. As far as service goes, it is friendly and more importantly, helpful for those who have never eaten Chinese food before and need explanations of the meals. (Whe11 there, ask for the orie~tal gentleman with the deceiving . name of Ralph .and fast as well as good service will be guaranteed.) Boot.leg .- ,. . · Cont~ll~d from page 11 have been on the fringe of eomrne,rcialism, and if this trend · co\tinues the lnUsic expected. !>f. Aerosmith just won~t come anymore. Most definitely, theit-music. i~ not top fortyisb, and . to a'ter the sometim~s obscene;. . often sexist, and always toughJyrics for the sake of radio, wQUld take away from . th~-:' ro.ugh uniqueness Aerosmith. fanatics have co~e to eXpect. llo:w~v~ri Bootleg, ls a ·fine album for those ~wbo may not possess any of their material and ·want a goq.d samP.li.ng~ .. Those who might. be qUite . familiar with · Aer.osmith, . ~rnay be disap~ pojnted. The ·four previoU$ly untracked tunes hardly make th~ album worthwhile for those who · already own their other albums~· (The price of a doUble albutnmustbe considered.) My suggestion-wait till the !\ext studio album comes out. - • _..>\ ll ·reg do1 nex Am Ru to a: all in cor· con Ne~ the stm COrl hve dai boa two mili 1\1 ~edit Da\ ret; that the sucl Spo1 cona docl forr ma1 ·Bra' exp; to ;: brin com Say! two ope I expE cula 200,( ther to n with ·eont advE prof: well ima1 perc may per< cha11 intex wiU clas! thew out offic first coor1 Sche neop Susa and respt head supp \Th1 Rosl Feat appb Con< Wasl albu Mon< up C Dep< newc wooe nist, Midc Brun will t with• Janu N·e-w corre willl 'the 11 at I depa1 the P• Th~ while coUrt mad lookU St.Ud« plern I me char• repre who appe1 not t Howe

. CONCORDIEN8IS 1 November 9, 1.9\18 Page 11 Let~The Geek Speak ln a financial move that sent ·regurttative shudders up and down the ·nation's coporate nerve-center, Wall Street, Australian publishing tycoon Rupert Murdoch annDunced today llis intention to purchase all outstanding common stock in 'Union College's Con- cordieosls. .By doing so, the ·controversial publisher of the New York Post would become the -paper's majority stockholder, adding the· Con- cordy to a string some of . twenty-odd Post•contrulled dailies and weeklies which boast a combined circUlation ·of two million pages daily and· one milli<m weekly. Feldman felt that ''well,. you know, allthe facts aren't in, and I ean. definitely see both sides of this issue.'' When pressed for a clarification, Feldman . broke · down and cried. Brien O'Toole's conunent will be printed in its entirety in next week's ~pecial \Brien O'T~olfls Comillent\ Issue of C(IDC(lrdiensis. Assuming, that the Forum's _ suit is heldup indefinitely in the courts, it appears faily certain that the Concordfensis will become a minor member of the Murodch publiShing empire. As Dave Schrnertz put it; \I really respect Rupert for all he's done forthe rag.\ Dave Rubin was a little less · emphatic,. but prin- cipally dittoed .Schmerh's sentiments, saying, ''Well, yeah; I guess so.\ Wh!it effect will the takeover have on the campus conimunity as a whole? Says former Production liiditor · Debbe (\Dimples.\} DamreU,\ The ' papeJY will look a little different, but it's quality should remain :virtually unaffected .. I mean, you'll get the usual Glee Club articles and Forum articles, etc., but you'll also see things like pretty girls in string bikinis on the front page and a lot of racing results in the Sports Section.\ \It's a disgusting state of affairs,\ fumed Tax Committee Chairman AI Rutkin, \when a group of high-pressure ,businessmen are invited into an unholy partnership with the present editor~ of the newspaper for the single and unwavering purpose of making a. fast buck at the campus commtmity's moral expense. · Now they're definitely not getting that answering machine.\ - The new Concordy will hit the newstands witbin tbe next three weeks, at the nominal cost of fifteen cents (except the Sunday edition, which Will run siXty cents). · culture Beer and Cart Murdoch assured present editors-in-chiefDave Rubin and Dave Schmertz :that they would retaln editorial prerogative; that is, complete control over the paper's major departments such as News, Feature, and . Sports as far as conetent was concerned. In ·addition,. Mur- doch okayedthe appointment of former Washingt(ln P(lst managing editor Benjamin · Bradley to oversee C(lncordy's expanded layout program, and to aid the pr~sent .editors in Bootleg ·Not An Old Shoe bringing about the successful the Boston area., has improved completion of that program. on Its success over the last five Says Murdoch, \Within the first The new Aerostnith album, years since their debut album two months of expanded Bo(ltleg 1 'js a fine collection .of called simply, Aerosmith. operation, I fully intend and Aerosmith standards along with They've, produced a new album expect to see Concordy's cir- four remakes of older tunes. every year, gaining widespread culation increase from .2800 to This donble•.ai'bum, though notoriety with the re-release of 200,000 copies per issue. Fur- called' Bootleg, and having a \Dream On\ immediately therrnore, each issue ~oUld run cover to matc_h the name, is by before the release of the album, to no less than seventy- pages no means, \Bootleg~' in quality~ Toys, in-the Attic, iH 1975. As a with 40 percent of the paper's The quality of the record!ng is result, maybe the most inspired content reserved for soliCited top-notch, and the interior ofthe albwn the boys have, Get Your advertising. As far as our .ad record c_over and inner sleeves Wings (1974), has gotten very pr\OfiCmargitr iS ·concerned . :. have some fine photographic little attention from anyone but well, as you can probably workmanship. Aerosmith enthusiasts; The by HARRYAD4MAKOS as it were, from Get You.r Wings, is. '''frain Kept A Rollin''', ironically a. remake itself. Their greatest com- mercial successes have been the albums, Toys in the Attic and in 1976 Rocks. In 1977, the release of Draw .the Line saw relatively little success. The band consists of Steven Tyler on vocals, Joe Perry with lead guitar, Tom Hamilton on bass, · Brad Whitford playing rhythm, and Joey Kramer on drums. These men, while not guitarists, but Kramer does precisely what is needed and is a very important factor even when playing simply and exactly. imagine, it'll go-minimwn-450 Aerosruith, originating from onlycutto~~inmuch 'prestige', percent over last year's figure; ~~e><>-<:::.o<><>oe><><:a<:a..c:...c:::.o<::=.-<::..c::::...c:::>-<:><:><>c::>oe::>e:::>-~:B maybe even as high as 600 percent.,.'' Additional staff changes will include several internal movements { Jiffi Davis wiU be 1 named 'regional classifieds supervisor) ; Mat- thew Nagorsky will b.e shifted out of tbe Associate Editor's office to become Concordy's first \Polish parades''--report coordinator ·for the Albany- · Schenectady. avea; newspaper · neophytes Donna Creeley and Susan Barnhart, of the Feature and News departments respectively, are eXpected to head Coocordy's new magazine supplement (Sundays only), \The Weekend Collegiate;\ Roslyn Stone, also of the Features department, has been appOinted night manager at the C(lncordy's recently-created Washington bureau desk; and · album reviewer Steve Monosson is e:x:pected to head up Concordy's e::q>andelf' Arts Department. Conc(lrd,iensis newcc;miets include the recently wooed and won Times- colum- nist WUliam Safire; CBS News Middle~East correspondent Bruno W~sserteil; Dan Rather • will be back in the White House· with Concordy credentials as of . January 1st, 1979; Ben Bradley; Newsd14y 's Manhattan corresponde.pt, Arlo Seiffert, will be m.oved upstate to cover 'the newState Street beat;' and at least twenty-five new department staffers will join the papev- as of December loth. the most talented ;individually, play as a tight unit, with each member knowing wh.at to ex- pect from the others. The result is a hard-hitting, dynamic sound coming from what may be the finest semi-hard rock group today. Their style is rough, and -~eir lyrics rarely deviate from soft core por- nography, insinuating almost always, if not ·being totally blW1t, at other times. The album itself contains 17 songs. For the most part, the songs aren't much different from the studio versions. The only exception to this is \Lord of the Thighs,\ which runs for more than seven minutes. The album has a representative sampling frotn eacll albun l. \Toys in the Attic,\ \Walk This Way,\ and \Draw the Line,\ are _done exceptionally well, while \Dream On\ and \Sweet Emotion\ on the other hand, are done poorly. These latter two songs are not \concert tunes\ and it is obvious that the band feels they 'must' perform \Dream On,\ for obvious reasons. · The Student Forum, mean- while, is fighting:thetakeover in coUrt. According to· a fighting- mad Steve Richards, 1 'Hey, lookit; this is supposed to be a studen't•rull newspaper~: sup- plemented.by sttt<fent tax fUJtdS. I mean, who is lllis. Murdoch · char,aet'er ~kidding?'' Forum representative Andrew Wisoff who is presenting the Forum .. \Forevenilore\ Why does the world happen so fast? It is for a moment, but then It flees the earth, 'leaving behind only the memory. I remember the touch, but not the feel It ·was for a moment, but now It no longer exists,\' · It has left me for all of my dreams. And yes, t~e scar has healed, all but in my mind Though the sands of time wear ever over there it remains forever burning -andi ........ N~ar You Love ... I stood n~ar you and trembled with dizzy- bloodrushing emotions. I stared into your eyes in search of a light (gently flickering). It seemed like it would never die out. Love ... I brought my body close to yours _ in hope of warmth. But instead~ a cold wind passed: between us and left us frozen like two iced fig~es. Love •.. I cried but you were not to blame. For it was I who not long ago - .u.pconsciously put,_ out the light in your ey.e~. Andnow · · · . . ' ' . I rest melted, unfrozen . · in the dark. -MRc appeal iil Albany today. could Pl not be reached for eonunent. _ .. ease submit all poems for Fine Lines to Box 1388, Jan De Deka The driving force, Steven Tyler, is a singer that takes complete control. His on stage · presence has been likened to . Mick Jagger. Indeed, he resembles Jagger physically as well, but his sound and singing style is definitely unique, definitely Aerosmith. Joe Perry is a fine guitarist in his own right; not great, but much mQre than adequate. Brad Whitford and Tom Hamllton are consiStent in their performances, on rhytlun and . bass respectively. Their job is to help keep the driving beat, typical of Aerosmith. · Joey Krap1er isn't a superstar on drums. The truth is, you don't really hear what he is capable of doing on their records, because of the dominance_ of Tyler and the 11/IPr. 6NC£S. Concerning the 'remakes,' the Sgt. Pepper musical version of \Come 'Together\ is mixed into the live perfonnance. \Chip Away the Stone,\ and \I Ain't Got You,\ may be some of the finer material in the album. In \Mother Popcorn,\ an old Presley tune, Tyler tries his hand at a jazzy selection with the help of David Woodford on sax. Though Woodford is sup- posed to be the main performer in this cut, one can't help but tal!:e exceptional notice of Tyler. The result is pleasantly sue· cessflil. As would be expected, the album finsihes with \Train Kept a Rollin'.\ Aerosmith has come out with a double-live . album. A good album, but not an exceptional -one. Aeto~mith is. as much a group to .see as they are to hear. A live album does them no justice. The last two albums Continued on page 10 1907 Van Vranken Ave. Schenectady, N.Y. Foreign & Domestic Car Service offers Union Students 10% D·iscount on parts and labor For appoin~tment call Dave at 377-4722 Howeveri Forum Veen- Randy Fme Lines Editor·: (Poems can be anonymous if you want.) _ ' ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ . . ' . :~w~~'a!ti.14..~·.~::\~~~\\·~lU\li!.K~~~~~-a\'U.~~\\··~~. .. -.•\i

I • • Page 1$3 OONCOBDIENSJS, November 9, 19'18 clas6ifieos BU LlEliN BOARD Pre-regt$tration materials for winter term 1978-79 will be available at the Office of the · Registrar, Room 2, Administration Building, beginning Monday, November · 13th. Students are urged to · promptly secW'e their copy of these materials. Students who do not plan to. return to Union for the winter term, except for graduating seniors, must im- mediately give notice of their plansto the Office of the Dean of Students. .Potential December graduates should inform the Office of .the Registrar of their plans to finish their studies at the end of fall tertn, if they have not already done so. .Students shoUld confer with Faculty Advisers during the week of November 13-17. Some departments may announce special arrailgements for ad· vising. Please be alert for such announcements. Course requests aredue at the Office .of the Registrar not later than Monday, November 2oth. A ten dollar ($10.00) late fee will be assessed thereafter. A'ITENTION: Students in- terested in art courses for the Winter and spring terms-Art JDajors will·be given preference · in all art course!? requiring enrollment cards. , The information session for summer employment with the representative from Eastman . The Union College Soccer Team has been selected to participate . in the NCAA Division III Soccer Tour- nament.. Union wiU hoSting a first round' game this Saturday, November 11, at 1:00. p.m. against Glassboro State College on Daley Field. In accordance with NCAA regulations, tickets must be purchased .by all spectators. Tickets are priced at $2;00 each for adults, $1.00 for students with ID card Md $tOO for children. Tickets will go on sale beginning Wednesday, November 8 at the Athletic Department, AlumM Gym, during regular office . hours. Tickets Will also be available on the day ·of the game. Please contact the Athletic Department (6284) if you have any questions. I'm certain the soccer team would appreciate your support on Saturday as they entertheir first ever NCAA post-season soccer tournament. All newly fonned student organizations are encouraged to submit a constitution to the Committee on Committees for approval. A model constitution will now be available from Randy Feldman (box 1404, 370- 67 45). Those previously established organizati-ons whose ·c<mstitutions have_ not been reviewed within the last two years should also submit their constitutions. All questions concerning clubs or associations on campus should be directed to any member of the Conunittee on Committees. · Modern Dance, · Friday, Novem'ber 10 is Carnegie Clean Up. Day. · Starting at 1:30 p.m. we will be sweeping, painting, and cleaning out trash from all the . rooms in the building. AU the student activities groups which are currently using rooms in Carnegie Hall (namely..- Cabaret, WRUC, When Diplomacy F'ails, Creative Music Workshop, Electronic Music Club, Union CoUege . Dan_ce Club, Protect Your · Envitonment Club, Women's Network, ldol, Chinese Students Association, · International Students Association, Moun·· tebanks-DLT, Concor,diensis, Union Book, Freshman Record, Union Jazz Ensemble, Hillel and the Pan Hellenic Council-- bet you didn't know ~there were that many'!) will be there to clean out their rooms, and the Circle K Club will be painting the first floor main lobby. But we can use all the help we can get. So come on over for an afternoon .of sweeping and cleaning and just plain fun! Garbage bags, mops, brooms, paint brushes and REFRESH• MENTS will be provided, ,compliments ()f Maintenance. and the College Center Com- mittee. Help us make Carnegie· Hall a cleaner and more at- tractive place--your student center. If you have any questions or suggestions, talk. to any member of the College Center Committee or Joe Zolner . or Mrs. Marra in the Student Activities Office. See You There!! .n . GREA 'i' musicians. See you we invite you to learn. If you're · there.; ·an ~expert, we invite yo11 to join The Union College Social Committee will sponsor a New England . Tradition Square Dance on Saturday, November ll, at 9:30 p.m. in the Old · Chapel. Admission is $.75. All , · are welcome!· · tis., provide instruction, lead • trips, and sbare your favorite .• swrt. Every.one is welcome to at- tend our weekly meetings held on Tuesday nites at 7:.30 in Hale. House L.Qwer LQunge. For more .· information come.to,.a. meeting • · or call: Gordon 374-0797., Carl. The Sisters of SDT are 382..8973, Betsy 374-6235., or Mrs. : sponsoring a Spaghetti Dinner Marra, Studept Activities. · onNov.12inHaleHouse. All.the - spaghetti you can eat and beer : . Social Committee Meeting- · you· can drink for $2.50. Two · .. Thursday, Nov.16 at 7:00 in the sittings-one at i5:-00 and one at , Student Activities Office. We, 7:00. Hope to see you there. .• need your ideas for Winter Mandatory meeting for Men · and Women Track and Field Candidates! in Block U Room of Alumni Gym on Tuesday, November 14 at 4:30 p.m. The Women's Network is sponsoring an evening .of discussion, centermg on legal · issues of concern to women on · Wednesday, November 15 from 7:30-9:30 in Hale House Upper Lounge. Guest speakers will be: Carol Villa from the Rape Crisis Center of Schenectady, Pat Downing, an attorney w:iU focus her talk on the effect that Title IX has· had on women, and Roxanne Babcock from Planped Parenthood i>f Schenectady. Following each , . presentation there will be a question and answer period. Coffee and doughnuts will be served. OUTING. CLUB. The U.O.C, is open to all interested .people. Activities include: Carn~val. Open to all students. · · FO'R SAlE fOR SALE: 6 string Guild· Madeira folk .guitar w-adj. action and tension. Incl. case, strap, strings. Call Carl 382~ . 8973. FOR SALE: Three tickets to •. see Bruce Springsteen at R.P..I. · Sunday, November 12. Best offer for any lllllount of tickets. · . Call 37().{i596. Ride needed to New Jersey (Morristowno$omerville area) for Turkey Weekend. Will share expenses'. Please contact Eileen at 6597. . Kodak will be held on Friday, November 17, 1978-in Hale House Lower Lounge at 3:.30- 4:30 instead of in the Placement Office as originally planned. Any woman interested in Friday night at 8:30p.m. the participating on the varsity · Union conege Coffeehouse will basketball team should see present MOTH & STAR, back Coach Barta immediately. The · · .by popular demand. This··~ Backpacking · Camping Day Hikes Riders wanted to Central · Jersey (Somerset Co.unty, ·· Basling Ridge) leaving Fri., Nov. 10. Call Gary at 6736. Undergraduate Legislative Intern Program Spring 1979- Please stop by the Placement Office for more information about this program. Deadline is November 15. first practice is November 13. ta~ented duo has appeared Technical Climbing Cave Exploring Canoeing~ ·· Mountaineering Cross-Country Skiing Snowshoeing FOREIGN STUDENTS: If you will be in need of housing during the winter break, please let the Housing Office know prior to November 2oth. ATTENTION SENIORS: Although there will be no quotes by the seniors' pictures in this ye;1N; Union Book, we are soliciting any literary or artistic material if there) something you'd like to see in the book. Please .submit any poems, prose, favorite sayings (original or otherwise) to the · Union Book box in Student Activities. CAMPUS CALENDAR CABARET THIS WEEK: 1st Act--Pete~ Sears--Folk Music 2nd Act--To be announced BUT •.. our one and only Todd Miller will be the M.C. and Linda Loner will be on in- · cidental piano. Tickets will be on sale in the front hall of Carnegie at 8: 00 the night of the show-$1:00 per person. COMING ATTRACTIONS: 11-16-Rudy Nyedeggar-Folk Music; Nancv Rockland-- HARVARD BUSINESS SCHOOL MBA PROGRAM Art Admissions Representative from Harvard Graduate School of B.usiness Administration· will he on campus Mo'nday, November 13; 1978 to meet with students interested in the two-year MBA Prognm Contact the Career Planning and Placement Center for more details and to sign up for art information session. ' Harvard Business School is committed to the principle of equal educational ~pport~nity and evaluates candidates without regard to race, sex, creed, national origin or handicap. many times before at Cof- Bicycle Trips Capin Trips ... and more!! feehouse; always to~ an en- thusiastic and pa<!ked-m crowd. If you haven't heard Moth & Star before, be sure to join us this Friday for an evening of good music, stories and FOOD. A mere $1.00 admission entitles you to coffee, tea, lemonade, and DONUTS. And don't forget the Irish Coffee--Union's favorite. Don't miss these two If you're interested in any of the above, get involved! It will never be cheaper to try your hand at some ·Of these outdoor sports. If you've never done it, - Dutch Hollow Pub ciTALIAN ·BUffET - every Thursday night from 5 to 8 all you can eat for $2.99 Ju.esday, Nov. 14 - Don Q Night - · ~ Sc Shots • Free Prizes · Tee-shirts and, much more. COME PARTY!!! CATALOG of COLLEGIATE RESEARCH Over lQ.OOO listings! All subjects. . Send NOW for this FR.EE.catalog. lolfer exp1res Dec 31. 1978) · Send to.: COLLEGIATE RESEARCH P.o. Box 84396, Los Angeles·. CA. ~073 liiiO:iif~iilf~~~!:il~~~li.>.&l,_r,.W~~!;.;:~;;t~.\\\'-''';. .... -\~-·-·-·· ·~- . I HELP WANTED· .HELP WANTED: Intelligent . and aggressive person needed to sell advertisements for Concordien_si:s, the Union College .newspaper .. Automobile required. Contact David Sch- · • mertz, 370~155. HELP W ~~TE~ Person .. wanted to deliver N.Y. Times to the campus during Winter term. Earn $20.00 per week or more. Involves about siK hours a · week. Call Dave Siegel at 372- · 5593 .for further info. The Yates School on Salina Street in Schenectady, within easy walkmg distance of the Good Afternoon •.• Continned from page 6 eluding a tour of the ladies' room. There are:the memories of the old switchboard in back of the library with its tangling wires. And, there are the calls from France and Italy . .:with such questions as \What does the Hebrew on top of the Nott Men:iorial read?\ \What are the school colors?\ \Do you know. what time the concert at RPI starts to~Iight?t' and, of course,· \How do I get to Union College?\ One p.erson once called a stu(lent operator to ask about how to behave for an admissions interview. Some people get indignant when the qperator cannot an- swer a question or switch a call that is impossible to transfer. They. can always be put on hold though. ·\ The .majority of the campus OP!rators enjoy the job in spite of It£~ few setbacks. The job is public relations; and the operators have thus far related well to the public. · can: stud wor: · gra( · cov~ mos afte: at'\! . Willi timE volu \V( visi: eleiJ engc: tivit WOOl ·to 1 ·The also sugg . volu tbeit If .. Mar 1 can . addi' requ w~ frat~ like distr · pac~ ·• Tele] · stud« com• · Hom ·- PE w~ Thes least Da wen: arom Atl week m sr Ka asha1 ·on at Ma ' Puer1 Ga1 aboul have T.V mm! -·-· La I Fr) mon~ AsbUJ Bat ChopJ Ge( snac~ Cra witho Con do it. fans. . Ha1 with l Cra . Ste~ .YOur< Coffe• . Geot~ Geo .my 1 .Cindy Min vosit~ Yet?~ .neck: ,t ..

OONOOBDIENSJS~ November 9, 19\18 t ~~-,...- c asa·111·ev6 campus, is currently looking for student volunteer assistance in working with their ~udents in grades·-l-6. Work wlll· usua~ly cover an hour or so per week, most tyPically. ClD Thur~day afternoons, but the orgamzers at Yates are quite fleXible and willing to meet the individual time requirements-of interested · . volWiteers, . Ken M.-Peace? O.K;·~~c. Dave Rubin-Congrat~aU- oris! I knew you could do 1t,..,?? Sue & Judy-~Let's lynch him!!-D. Brian O'·Foole-You're still my R.A.-i guess we have to get •. !lll:mg-Friends? · . Volunteers will .be super- vising and. work.Jng . witt). . Peter-a· deviated septum? elementary- schClol students we like your nose anywa~! ----------.------------~--- Dave Becker-your mother's from Cohoes .. ·Bawn- Thou art Baum, . a dorm thpushalt ne'erbe'!~l7lh you dldn't jump. Golden-We know it's brutal,- . but suck it in.-VourJellowtools To whom it may ·concern: . Maybe just one more try? Jill-(tbis isn't ll;B good as the . George la'St one) Let's talk. D.R.. . . . . Happy Birthday Gary M.- F'letch-How's Relayer'? · Mom Dad and the rest of 3rd '- ' ,, - . · noor Davi.d$on North. . ZOe-Cheer up! WE'I\E WITH YOV.-The Cr?W engaged in a variety of a~ ,. tivities ranging from ceramiQs, woodworking and arts & crafts Andrea--Espero que te guste El-Just a few small words at • · la trabaja tuya~omo siempre! a frat party . . . Dad-·I think we nave 55 problem children! What a:e we going to do? Mom · to physical exercise classes. s· &. ·M:_Th·. a·n·k- 8 fo· .. ·ust·e· nm· _g · The· teachers at Yates would ;L also welcome any additio1;1al ears! · · suggestions offered ~Y tb~i~ volunteer workers to unprove . 'Arnie-Thanks for all your. :Donna C.--Thanks, you 1 ve. been a big help through all the trials and tribulations-you're great-D~R. T.erry & Tom--The honeymoon is good bef()re ~he engagement party, the wedding and anYthing else for that matter! one who knows. . their; current oper~ticms. . . lf interested,. pleas.e cap . Marge.Reynolds.at374-9800. She help in the last few weeks! . G'eorge.: I looked in the • · You're a doll, hoilee .. .-: . manual. You lied. Janet Nags--Who applied to 50 -can provide you with all tne . Chuck-Bwana waits for a . additional inftitmation you m,ay · date-.Just kid~ng, your sisters. require. -- - -, . . . . WANTEO: An organization, • fraternity or sorority who would like to earn money by distributing \Might Minute\ · packets from New York Telephone Compan;rto all dorm students. Please call 6117 or · come in to see Mrs. Bogar in the · Housing Office. PERSONALS Wanted: One Economics Thesis-any subject-must be at least 75 pages. Contact 370~155 ·. Dave-Congratulations on a . well kept secreLit DIDN'T get · around too fast Jeff. · Attention Uni.on: Only 32 · weeks tit suirlrnet,' and 2 weeks til SNOW, DAMN! ! Kathy E. and Sandy B.-~'tn ashamed of the way you earned on at Halloween!-\Dad\ - · Mauricio-::caow's things in ' Puerto Rico? -the Canadian . - Hey Eerg! I like your outfit, \you slime!\ Garbs: Tough term? How about weaving us a rug if you have a few spare minutes! T .W. :· UilUllll1IIl111I- mm! Larry G.: Nice eyes! Fry ann Springsteen: Only 4. . morE~ days 'till we seethe God of · Asbury! Barb G.t Wanna go to Price Chopper and· mun.cll o~? · George: You only wanted a_, snack, huh? Mindy · · Crayolas, . you were loose without your box. · Congratulations Soccer team, · do it all the way, Your diehard fans. · . Happy Birthday to the guy with braids in~ the red coat. Crayolas unite! . Happy Birthday ~im, we'll have. to celebrate Without you. · \ ' . /' Friends,. Romans, Coun- trymen, send me your Dogs! Roger SllllUJletbayes, George , Peabody College for Teachers, Peace Corps Project, Box 160, Nashville, Tenn., 37205. Dave Becker, how's your mother? S&W Gary-You owe me a back rub. Jen,... This is from last week. Do you still think that :lle was trying to pick us up? Dave--Congr a talation s--J ill Eric--I couldn't can ·you because it was too late. I hope schools? Isobar-What. weather! Clar~nice talking to yon. Pam-SOrry I was taken. Aunt Nancy--you're being disowned·. Andy--The terrific! Go.rge was A TERRIFYING LOVE STORY \ JOSEPH E. LEVINE PRESENTS MAGIC Pqge 13 Ted·-Sorry about Monday afternoon. Jon-Thanks for listening. Will-What happened to your bead'? · Dee-haven't seen you in at least 3 days. Amy-where were you this weekend'? ... Committees •• : Continued f.-om page 5 A sneak preview of winter tenn's events include winter carnivalt a blue grass music · event and an evening with a clairVoyant. PlaDiling and Priorities After {'Oncluding its last meeting with a discussio11 on the respon$ibility centers within the - budget, the PJanning and Priorities Committee began its · meeting with a discussion -of faculty co·mpensation. The committee is currently studying recommendations about faculty compensation but a final decision about this issue will not be made until all recom- mendations are in. Steve-sorry to hear abQut your close relation to J wnbo the Coffee• Drinking Elephant and , . . George. ANTHONYHOPKINS ANN·MARGRET BURGESS MEREDITH EO LAUTER EXECUTIVE PRODUCER C.O. ERICKSON MUSIC BY JERRY GOlDSMITH · SCREENPLAY BY WILLIAM GOLDMAN, BASED UPON HIS NOVEL . . . . . . . PRODUCED BY JOSEPH E. LEVINE AND RICHARD P. LEVINE DIRECTED BY RICHARD 'AlTENBOROUGH Georg~: .I filially got it out of , my hail-. Some marksman; ' . Cindy. . . Mindy B.: _How's your ner- , vosity?. Have yqu defenestrated · Y:et'? S & D P.S. How's Patte's neck feeling? , . . ' ' • ro. ~ ,· . ..._ .~ ., . PRINls bY D£ LUXE\'TECHNICQLOR' . [~~tl? ~~'· . ~- / STARTS WEDNESDAY, NMMBER 8TH AT A THEATER NEAR)OU CHECKtOCAL NEWSPAPERS FOR THEATER LISTINGS · ' . ,. . . . ..

. • \>. ~ Page 1~ OONOORDIJiJN~IS. November 9. i978 .. - - -. A \Tension~ Between National Sovereignty and Global Environmental Needs\ iS the topic of an International Environmental Law sym· posium to be held Friday, Nov. 10 and Saturday, Nov. 11 at the Ramada Inn, 1228 Western Avenue, Albany. The sym- posium is jointly sponsored by Union University, Albany Law School, the American Society of International Law, and tlte Public Health Committee and Envb.\onmental Law Cottmiittee of the New York State Bar AS$0ciation. The symposilllli should be an excellent opportunity for any pre-law or political science student with an interest in in- ternational affairs. Specifically, the symposium Will address the question of whether 1)ur en- vironmental problems are best solved through multi-national efforts or tbrough the efforts of individual states. Seminars, panel discussions, and speakers will explore the positions of business, government, and the environmentalists against the background of the ex- traterritori'al effect of the United Nations' enviroruilental laws._ .. Participants wiU include Harry Almond, Senior Attor- ney-Advisor,..Intemation Law & Affairs, Dept. of Defense; Dr; W .J .. Coppoc, Vice President, Environmental Protection Dept., Texaco, Inc.; Senator Charles Mathias; and others. Experts such as these will be able to provide differing per• spectives on particular topics of immediate significance. The cost cf the symposium for students, including a poolside luncheon, is fifteen dollars or twenty-five doll?rs including dinner. For rnot·e information~ contact Susan Foster or Ann Goldstein at 434-0136 .. Union Book, the college yearbook, has bef,'n spending the early part of this tenn getting tiself organized. An editorial board has been selected with Dana Thau acting as coordinator.. Photography Editors are Jon Flescher, steve Grill and Ed Platz. Paul Smith; Mark Scott and Jeff Siegal are the Layout Editors and Audrey Stein, Barbara Stem and Lir Walter are the Senior Section Editors. The Art and Literary Section is being taken care of by Fran Davis and Andrea Fink andDebbe Damrellare working on the Business aspects of the book. In order to include the entire campus community in the 1979 Union Book, we are inviting any ar.d all Union students to submit a design or idea for the. cover of the book. We are also looking for any other contributions-be they photos, works of art, literary pieces, etc. If you have anything you would like to see in the yearbook, leave it in the box in the Student Activities Office marked Union _ Book. Please don't hesitate to contribute anything apd everything to the yearbook-this is yo\ll' book. We would appreciate it if you.could include your name and box nwnber with everything you submit. If you have any questions about the book, or are in· terested in working on anY aspect of it, contact any of the editors, or call Dana at 370-6702. Calvin Speaks Melvin Calvin, who in 1961 won the Nobel Prize for .his research on photosynthesis, will speak at 8 p.m. Wednesday, Nov. 15 in room 016, Social Sciences building. The .public is invited free of charge. Calvirt, who has taught at the University of California at Berkeley since ' 1937 and has been director of the Laboratory of Chemical Biodynamics since 1963, will speak about uChemical Carcinogenesis,\ the process by Which certain materials can incite or produce cancer.-- He is known for hiS strong belief in the value of cross• disciplihary work as a way of unraveling many coq1plic.ated problems ~ncountered by chemists, biologists and physicists. In the 15 years of research that led to his Nobel Prize, Calvin essentially triec;l to determine how pl!lnts store electromagnetic ·energy from· sunlight in cl1ernical form by converting carbon dioXide and water into carbohydrates and molecular oxygen. He was able to do so, in part, by the use of radioactive carbon .. l4 for tracer studies. · · Mote recently, he has been exploring the idea of ''petroleum plantations~~;;:.the · production ·of plants that can yield .substantial amounts of petroleum products. His appearance is sponsored by the lectures, films and concerts corrunittee. WOmen's Rights What would a Union College student do if whe felt .she were being discriminated against in a class because she was a woman? She would bring her complaint to the President's Area Calendar Films .Exhibits Friday, November 10: Did Through November 20: You See That Movie will present SUNY -A will present Tenth Michelang.elo Antoniorii's Street Days, a compilation of celebrated 'l'he Red Oesert at 8 works by artists during the '50's and 10 p.m. and also on and .the Mohawk-Hudson Saturday, November 11 at 8:30 Invitational, works by two p.m. in Auditorium One. The · artists from the 1977 Regional heatre is located at 75 New EXhibition. SUNY ·A Gallery is Scotland Avenue, Albany. For open Tues-Fri, 9 a.m.-5 p.m.; information, call 436~7371. Sat and. Sun, 1-4 P·l!l·; '!burs 'til Friday, November 10: A 8 p.m. Forfurther mfo. call457- German film, The American 3375. Friend, will be $hown at· SUNY Albany's recital hall at 8:30 p.m. There will also be a Music showing Saturday at 8:30 p.m. For further information call 457-8606. Lectures Wednesday, November 15: Russell Sage will. hold an Alcoholism-Drug Abuse panel discussion of· insurance coverage for counseling at 1:30 p.m.; and an alcoholism lecture by counsellor-priest Josepb C. Martin at 7:30 p.m. Both Will be held at the Russell Sage College Fine Arts Center. For further .information call 27CJ-2344. Dance Tuesday~ November 14: Rod Rodgers Dance Company will perform jazz, modern, and dance drama in the Russell Sage Fine Arts Center. '1'1\e performance Will begin at 8:30. r ticket information can 276- 2344. Saturday, November 11: Bob Frankel will .. perform at the Eighth Step Coffeehouse at ~4 Willett Street in Albany. Doors open at 8 p.m. For more in• formation can 489-7648. Sunday, November 12: Frieda and Stephen Manes will give a concert of piano; four hands music on Sunday afternoon at 2:30p.m. at the Albany In.stitute of History . and Art, 125 Washington Avenue. For in- formation call 463-4478. . . Monday, November 13: The Buffalo Percussion Ensemble will perfonn at 8 p.m. in the SUNY A Performing Arts Center. For further infonnation call 457-M06. Thursday, November 16: Pianist Linda .Jaffarian will perform compositions by Bach, Liszt, Schubert and Prokofiev in the Julia Howard Bush Memorial Center in·Troy, The· performance will begin at 8 p.m. For ticket information call 274-5661. . TheCl1re Thursday; No..vember 9: Steven D. Albre~zi will direct _ Sexual Perversity in Chicago, presented by Director's Theatre '78 at SUNY A's Performing · Arts Center. There will also be performances through Satur- · day, November 11, all begiiJning . at 8: 00 p.m. For ticket in- . .formation call 457-8608. Friday, November 10: The J.C.A. Players will present· Anton . Chekhov' s• Tile Cherry Orchard in the.Junior College of Albany's Theatre. Per- fo~nces will be Nov. 10-11 at · 8:00p.m. For ticket information • call445-1725. Schenectady Arts Council presents: 9th Thurt:~day: . Retired Teachers Assoc., 1 p.m. Price : Chopper,~ComrnWlity Room, Eastern Ave., Dessert & Coffee 12th Sunday: Oakroom Artists, 3-6 p.m., 1st Nat. Bank, Erie Blvd., Timothy Sauter- · Opening Reception. . 12th Sunday: Kiwanis Club of Niskayuna, 7:30, .Niskayuna H.S.,. Fibn: \Honk Kong and. Macao.\ · Commission on the Status of Women at U.nion College. The Conunission was formed in 1973 because many people felt women had problems at Union .. It consists of women who are elected repres~ntatives. from the administration,. staff, student body., faculty, and faculty wives of the College community. According to ·the newly revised bywlaws of the Com· mission its purpose \shall be to concern itself with the •status and rights of the women. in the Union College community.\ There ate many _objectives including ''hearing and in- vestigating charges of discrimination or 'inequities on campus'' and '':exploring _ways in which the College (!an help women develop their skills and continue their education.\ _ According to . English Pvofessm: Cynthia Devis, chairperson of the Commission, \We have a. lot of energy and get a. great deal accomplished.'' She added, \We will happily take any suggestions.\ · The Women's Commission is budgeted - through the President. No fundraising activities are .held. They award small scholarships -each year. The Commission also helps fund Women's Week in conjunction With the Women's Net:work•a student group. The Commission used to be very casual. Now it is :becoming more organized with the revising of the by-laws and election -of a chairperson, secretary, and treasurer. There is no voting -all decisions are made by the consensus of the group which meets every two weeks. Last year, the Commissio.n received one discrimination cotnp!aint: A student felt a professor had said something against. women .in class. They reacted by sending a letter to the professor involved. The Women's Commission also sent out a questioimaj.re last year about the status of women. ''The Commission is special because it includes people from all areas . of the college com· munity,\ according to D.r. Davis. other members include Barbara Boyer·. and Phyllis- Kaiden ·of the faculty; Catlene G.uy and Rosemary Mayhew from the &'taff; Yungwlia Min, Kathie Briber and Mitzi Glenn from the Administration.; Jeanne Linden and. Priscilla Hollmgswortb•student repre- sentatives; and faculty wives- Pauline- Reice, Joan Shanebrook, and Linda :Kellett. 'Food:. D •. r-1ve _ '1\his . year's Thanksgiving Food Drlve for the pc>or .o0f Schenectady iS underway and will run until Nov. 17. · · Food donatioqs can be placed in boxes located in dormitories and , the Student Activities Office, where cash coli- tributi.ons will also ~ accepted • The food d~ive is being organized fot the fifth suc- cessive year by the Newman Camptw Ministry. \Poor people live within a stone's throw of Union,\ C8I)lpus Minister .Erwin Sch- weigardt said. ''It's only With our help that they can have Thanksgiving dinners.\ Raffle Held Last week members of Circle K, a service organization here at Union, were combing the campus begging the students on their hands and kneE:.S to pur- chase.~· 50 cent raffle ticket to benefit the SChenectady Bois Club. Some of the proceeds also went to a fund to rebuild the Nott Memorial. Well I'm happy to report that except for a select few the students found it within themselves to dig into their funds and contribute. Circle K is still in the for- _mative stages and new mem- bers are always welcome. If interested. contact Andy Yuan at 371).6559 for more information or attend our next meeting on Wednesday, November 15th at 7 p.m. in the Fox Lounge. ua•vWeds .. bFri. ...... caaEat. Fantastic~lly tasty·fish fillets, with ta~tarsauce, cole slaw and french fries. COLONIE 7~ Wolf Rd. (across from Colonie Center) ol$9•948$ SCHENECTADY 161A State ·St 312·17® tUHA\' - Lefha111 Cornet Sl!opplng Ctr., 785·11957 . Book Your Hollcfiy P•rties Now • - s ThE show sea so ·ColgB game a ben .Skati1 well~ and~ who suppc perfo Morri De~

\ OONOORDI1!JN818, November 9., 1.978 .. / ' Skaters BOw to Colgate The Dutchmen, in their ftrst shcHving of the exhibition season, went down to Division l ·Colgate by ~ score of 9~2. The game, played S~turday night as a benefit for the Achill~s Figure .Skating Club and Block U, was well attended by b()tbthe Union and Schenectady communities, who overall · appeared~ quite supportive and pleased with the pedormance of Coach Morrison's players. Despite being outscored by s.even goals, two of which came in the last .fifteen seconds of the game, the Dutchmen skated. strongly throughout_ all three periods. Goalie Dave Josephson was called upon to :make 49 saves, 30 rnore than the Colgate comb~nation of Terry McSweeney - and Drew Schaefer. The Colgate goals were· scored by eight different players led by Mark Mortis, with two geals to his credit. Sop}lomore '-mainstay Mark Haley put Union. on the scoreboard on both 'occasion$. COach Morrison, pleased With his team's .effort, now has his sights set on next week's exhibition game against American .I11ternational College (AIC) of Springfield, Mass; (a, benefit game for the Schenectady Youth Hockey Association) Tickets for that game are available Saturday at Achilles Rink from 9 a.m. ~ 12 00911 and at the door. Athlete Of The Week . .... Sheila· O'Donnell, a eporte sophomore plitical science c major and sister at Delta ·; 11 Gamma sorority, .is Captain of ·. ·---- the· Women's Varsity Volleyball ·~ Senior Co-Captain Mike O'Connell Team and this week's Athlete of the Week. 'Ibis is Sheila's \ second year 1111 the volleyball ~ team, and she is also a playing l member of tile women's varsity basketball and softball teams at Union. · Sheila has done an out- standing job this season. .As captain of the team, Sheila has been the \backbone\ of the squad. She has become and aggressive hitter this year, contributing many moments of spectator pleasure as well as sparking the team to its vic· tories. Sheila has also contributed as an all-around player--on defense she bas caused many opponents to \eat volleyball\ due to her blocking talents: Although the volleyball season has ended, basketball season will begin Winter term, so be sure to catch Sheila in action. International Evening ~~ ~')~·~,. . ~~ ~ Presented by the International Students' \~ q., ~- Association of Union College q~c-c,c~ \S'~:-. 1 # \;<: C))Q'. ~ ~~ ~ Q)1-\'~ ~ ':19' \9'~ - International Buffe't Exotic Entertainment Fantastic Cocktails C))-). ~ ... Opening Act: Braemar Highland Dq.,ncers & Scottish Bagpiper Followed By: Armenian Band & Three BeUy-Dancers!!! Saturday, Nov. 1'8, 1978 $5,00 'sing I~ ·;n advance $6.00 at the door . . . t ')?? 5:30 p.m. o .. . Hale House ... and, for $9,00 couple, in advance onfy Limited nvmber of tickets! the show ... Memorial Chapel ... buy early1 ' ' / iickets on sale in Student Activities- Carnegie Hall UNION COLLEGE SOCIAL COMMITTEE sponsors ·A NEW ENGLAND T.RADJTION ~qu.are Dance Satur~ay N<;)V. 1 ·1. ~ 9:30 p.m. .- .-- OLD CH:APEL- .. 7.5c Punch & Munchies Senior co-captain Dean Mathewson Sheila 0' Donnell • ~RDE!IGNE~ -w . .unisex cutting & design. ~ I 16i() central av. colonie re.N york· ( 518)8~-7313' The New York Tjmes Is Back! And to c;:elebrate its return, you can now have the Times delivered to your door all term for· only 18.90. That's a 40 percent discount off the newstand pric~~ To order the Times at this special low price; ·students can send checks to David Siegel, Box 2243 or call 372-5593. ' . Act Now and Save

on the Status of Union Colleg:e. was formed many poople .felt ad ,problems at Union! of women who are representatives .froJI} :staff, body, faculty, and of the College to tbe newly by..,laws of tile Com~ purpose us~n be to itself with the status of the wom~n in the comlllunity .'' many _ objectives ''hearing and in~ charges of or jnequities en ' and \exploring _ways the College can help their skills and their educatbn., to En·gllsh Cynthia D21vis, of the C()mniission, a lot of el1ergy and at deal accorn!)lished.\ ed, \We will happily suggestions.\ Cotnmission is d - throu~h the No fumlraising are held. The:y award each year. als() helps fund Week in con.junctlon Women's Network-a used to be Now it b~coming organized with the of the by·laws and of a cb.airperson, and treasurer. There -all dedsdons are the consensus of the meets every two the C<>IIlllliSSiQn one discrinination A student felt a had said sonu~thing in class. They by sending a letter to involved. The Commission also sent last year status of women. is special includes people from of the college com- according to D.r. members include Boyer·. an.d Phyllis- Kaiden of the faculty; Carlene Guy and Rosemary Mayhew from the .staff; YlUigwha Min, Kathie Briber and Mitzi Glenn fr()m the Administration; Jeanne Linden and Priscilla Hollingsworth,.stuqent repre• sent-atives; ~d faculty wives- Pauline- Reice, Juan ShanebroO'k, and Linda Kellett. Food Dri·ve . _ !_his year's Thanksgiving Food Drive for the poor .of Schenectady is underway and will r.un until Nov. 17. - Food don~tions ean l)e placed in boxes located in dormitories and ·· the Student Activities ()ffice, where · cash · con- tributions will.also be accepted. The food dr-ive is being organized for the fifth suc- cessive year by the Newman Campus Ministry; \Poor people live within a stone's throw of Union,\ Campus Minister J!;rwin Sch- weigardt said; \It's only with our help that they can have Thanksgiving dinners.\ Raffle Held Last week members of Circle JC, a service organization here at Union, were combing the campus begging th.e students on their hands and kne_e.s to pur- cbase a 50 cent raffle ticket to benefit the Schenectady Boy~s Club. Some of the proceeds also went to a fund to rebuild the Nott Memorial. Well I'm happy to report that except for a select few the· students found it within themselves to· dig into their funds and contrib11te. Circle K is still in the forM _mative stages and new mem- bers are always welcome. If interested. contact Andy Yuan at 37().6559 for more information or attend our nex:t meeting on Wednesday, November 15th at 7 p.m. in the Fox Lounge. AIIYouC:an Eat. Fantastically tasty fish fillets, with rartar sauce. cole slaw and french fries. ·Little People $2.79 $1.59 --.--- {children under 1 2) •\llf ,.II. .'-----=-~ ............_ ____________ _ f\ GOOD TIMES Alf fOIJND. COLONIE 72 WDII Rd. Car:ross lr~ln Colonie Ctnterl 459·945 SCHEMECTADV 1614 Stale Sl 312-1730 LATHAM - Latham Cclrner Shopping Cfr. 785·1957 Book Your Holiday Parties Now • \ OONOOBDt1iJN818~ November 9, 1978 ' I Skaters Bow to Colgate The Dutchmen, in their first showing of . the exltil>ition season, went down .to Division I Colgate by a score ,of 9·2. The game,. played Saturday night as a benefit for the Achilles Figure Skating Club and Block U, was well attended by both the Union and Schenectady conununities, who overall . appeared,. quite supportive and pleased with the performance of Coach Morrison's players. Despite being oUtscored by s.even goals, two of which came in the last fifteen seconds of. the game, the Dutchmen skated strongly throughout. all three .periods. Goalie Dave Josephson was called upon to make 49 saves, 30 more than the Colgate comb~nation of Ter.ry McSweeney · and Drew Schaefer. The Colgate goals were scored .by eight different players led by Mark Morris, with two gc;,als to his credit. Sophomore -,mainstay Mark Senior Co-Qiptain Mike O'Connell Haley put Union on the scoreboard on both occasions. Coach Morrison, pleased with his team's effort, now has his sights set. on next week's exhibition game against American International College (AIC) of Springfield, Mass. (a benefit game for the Schenectady Youth Hockey Association) Tickets for that game are available Saturday at Achilles Rink from 9 a.m. - 12 no!)n and at the door. Athlete Of The Week \' ' . . Sheil'a O'Donnell, a sophomore plitical science i major and sister at Delta : ·~ Gamma sorority, is Captain of i the Women's Varsity Volleyball u. Team and this w~ek:s A,thlete of j the Week. This 1s Sheila's second year ·1>n the volleyball 1 team, and she is also a playing j member ofthe women's varsity basketball and softball teams at Union. · Sheila has done an out- standing job this season. As captain of the team, Sheila lias been the \backbone of the squad. She bas become and aggressive hitter this year contributing many moments of spectator pleasure as well as sparking the team to its · vic- tories. · Sheila has also contributed as an all-around player--on defense she has caused many opponents to \eat volleyball\ due to . her blocking talents: Although the volleyball season has ended, basketball season will begin Winter term, so be sure to catch Sheila in action. International Evening 6 ~ ~~~.~ . . C))~ ~0 Presented by the International Students' ~ 0 6 ~ ~. Association of Union College · ~~<'\~) ..r~. International Buffet ~' - ......... \0!. ~ ~~ Q! ~1-\\~ Exotic Entertainment Fantastic Cocktails Opening Ad: Braemar Highland Dqncers & Scottish Bagpiper Followed By: Armenian Band & Three Belly·DancPrs !!! . Saturday, Nov. 18, 1978 ss.oo ·single ~in advance · 5:30 p.m. to ??? S6.00 at the door Hale House ... and, for ~.00 couple, in advance only· the show •.. MemoriaJ Chapel Limited number of tickets! ...buy early! • I • I Tickets on sale ih Student Activities- Carnegie Hall UNION COLLEGE SOCIAL COMMITTEE sponsors A NEW ENGLAND TRADITION ~quare Dance Saturday N.OV. 1·1 8 9:30 p.m. . . ,, . ~ OLD C.HAPEL -7.5c Punch & Munchies I ~ ~Q-· ~L. - ~~ ~ ... Senior co-captain Sheila 0 ~lRDE!f W tnsex c ~ The Ne~ Times I~ And to celebrate i.ts return Times delivered to your .I 18.90. That 1 S a 4tl perc newstand price~ To ordE specta I low price, ·stu den· David Siegel, Box ~243 or Act Now o

• . .r .. ' Page 16 r·OONOORD1ENS1S, November 9, 19\18 eporte Gridders Bow: Look Toward Halnilton It seems as if every year the Union .gridders have one game before the home crowd where everything just goes wrong. Last year it was a 4~22 loss to Williams and the year. before a 50-6 pasting by Middlebury. This year it was the Panthers again as they completely demolished the ·Dutchmen by a 53-13 score on Alexander Field this past weekend. / The outcome was indeed very difficult to understand. The Dutchmen (2-5) had played courageously the week before losing 11-8 in the final seconds to Williams while Middlebury ( 4- 3) represented a relatively solid but not outstanding opponent having lost 11 starters from last year's squad. Certainly no one could have predicted such a. fold by a Dutchmen defense which had performed so· admirably throughout the entire season. No doubt injuries did play a major role as the Garnet went into the contest with defense stars Chip Symington, Terry Weber, and Kevin Kormandy 'forced to watch from the sidelines. In addition, starters Dan Lef(, :Ron Bush, and Dave Feldman \''ere injured during . the contest leaving the defen- sive un:it extremely vulnerable at several key positions. The fact remains, however, that· they were simply overpowered throughout tbe entire afternMn exhibiting shoddy tackling and numerous mental lapses. For the .most part the Dut- chmen offense was just as· ineffecUve with Middlebury completely sbutting off Union's highly touted running game. The offen:;;e managed only 83 yards ontbe ground with Romer getting a season low 15 yards for the game, and even those were earned on purely individual efforts. Surprisingly, Union did manage to draw first blood in the contest as Terranova, forced to rely on the pass, manuevered the Dutchmen 57 yards in tile first quarter for a score. The clincher came on a 5 yard toss to tight end Kevin Ebetly. The score ended a string of7 consecutive quarters in which the Dutchmen bad failed to cross the end zone stripe. . The optimism was shOrt lived, however, when Middlebury scored on their .next f.ive possessions while Union could only counter once on a 17 yard pass from Terranova to wide receiver Henry Wright. Down 31·li3 at the half, all hope ·of a second half comeback faded· when senior halfback Dave Howea scampered 86 yards with the second .half kickoff nailing this coffin shut. The statistics for ·the game were as onesided as the final score with the Panthers racking up an unbelievable 553 yards in total offense to just 249 for the Dutclunen. Union travels to Clinton, NY to face arch~rival Hamilton in the season finale with the Dutchmen already as'Sured of their eight con- ·secutive losing season. Senior Co-Captain Ed Elinski {50) instructs teart;~mates AI Hertz. berg (65) and Bruce Melina (46}. · -.... Spikers 3rd in Tourney Kevin Eberly romps in for Union's first score. As a resUlt of the volleyball tournament played here last Saturday, District Four is sending Russell Sage and West Point as their representatives to the State tournament in Cor- tland on November 10 and 11. The format of the tournament was changed to two pools of round robin play as opposed to double elfinination. 'One pool, consisting of Oneonta, West Point, PlattsbUl'gh, Union and Mercy (seeded in that order) played the preliminary round robin here. Each team played two games against each other team in the pool. The other group of Russell Sage, Albany State New Paltz, Siena and King's College competed at SUNY -Albany. The two top finishers from each pool played here to determine the two teams that would ultimately go to \the States.\ West Point (8-o) won its pool without dr.opping a game although Union gave them a run for their money in the first match of the morning. Union was leading 13~ and West Point came back to win 16.-14. Oneont.a came in second (5-3) dropping one to Pl;:~ttsburgh and two to West Point. Union (4-4) played spoilers by beating Plattsburgh (15-13, IS-12) in the last match of the round robin thus ruining their chances for a second place finish. Instead they finished fourth behind third place Union. Union also beat Mercy (15-11, 15-16) and lostto Oneonta (12-15, .3-15). . The top. two finishers at Albany were Russell Sage (first) and New Paltz (second). In the best · Z of 3 playoffs, Russell Sage took Oneonta in three games and West Point defeated New Paltz in three. Field Hockey Finishes Fine Year Union's field hockey team plwtged into their season with a bang and never led up until the end. They continued to live up to their high expectations . of teamwork and skill. Their successful season last year of 6- 6, was surpassed this fall by a season consisting of 11 wins and 4 close losses. The Union Dutch· women tallied 58 goals and Debbie Schwartz allowed only 17 goals to slip by. Ellen Heininger lead the team as high ~orer with 17 goals tqis season, Buthania Shukri followed close behind with 15. Debbie Downey had 9, co-captain Judy Driscoll had 5, co--captain Jane Gulick had 4, Dot Scarpinato and Nancy Colt both tallied two, and Mona Klepp had·. 1. Goalie Debbie Schwartz allowed there to be no shut-outs for the team and Union shut-out 6 opposing teams. including Colgate. The tleam was a closeknit one and worked hard to continue to build their strength under the rigorous workouts Qf Coach Marty Morrison. Their en- thusiasm remained. all season, and the Dutchwomen couldn't be happier with their. winning season. Especially when the Dutchwomen shocked the bloomers. off Colgate. The women of Colgate walked on the field with con{idence, wbich didn't remain long when the Potsdam 4~0 with Ellen Union wo:men exhibited some Heininger scoring 2 of the gQals excellent teamwork and stick· and Dot Scrapinato and Debbie work. Ellen Heininger scored 2 Downey, the other twp •. Union goals early in the first half and beat Skidmore 4-3, Debbie Nancy Colt tallied the final one Downey with 2 of the goals and in the second hlilf. Colgate Buthania Shukri ,and Ellen exhibited some excellent play, Heininger each with one. but Union played even better; . Following the regular season, This was the first time that a the Dutchwomen went on to women's team of Union had -·play a post-season tournament defeated Colgate in anything! at Smith College, the Northeast The Dutchwomen went to College Tournament. Union's Oneonta t() face roughness and field hockey team was new this discouragement. The . women year at the tournament. They kept the £arne close however were thought of as sort of the and were defeated 1-3. The next wtderdog, but ended up doing two games were against RPI,. amazingly well. Their first winning 8-1 and on homecoming game was against UVM. It was the DutchV~omen walked off the a tough game as UVM is an field with a 10.0 victory. excellent team and supposedly Away games at Middlebury out of the Dutchwomen's and North Adams were very league. UVM scored in the first close. The women kept up their few minutes of the game. Judy momentum the entire game and Driscoll. brought Union to a tie showed equal if not better stick- soon after, and Ellen Heininger work and endurance than the tallied another goat Union opposing teams .. Both games remained ahead of UVM though were disappointing through the middle of the losses, both 1•2. Buthania second half. UVM snuck past Shukri scored the Single goal at Union with 2 goals in the last 5 the Middleb11ry game and Judy minutes The Dutch women were Driscoll s~ored the single goal the only team to play UVM and against North Adams. The to score more than once in a remainder of the Union's field single game. The next two hockey season consisted of gatnes were against Amherst winning games. Debbie Downey and Central Conneticut, the scored the goal of the Q.lstleton Dutchwomen won 2--1 and 1.0 game, th~ won 1-0 •. Union beat respectively. Buthania ·Shttkri and DotScarpinato were among the scorers. Four of Union's field hockey team member~ were chosen for trials for an all-star team going to Portland, Maine for the Northeast tournament; in· eluding all association and all star in the northeast. The 4 chosen were sophomores Ellen . Heininger and Buthania Shukri, senior Debbie S~hwartz, and freshman Lisa Stern. From these trials, Ellen Heininger and Debbie; Schwartz were selected for an aU-star team. The Dutchwomen are proud of the way they . played at the tournament and proud of their selected team members. The season was a good one . The Dutchwomen are a willing, determined, aggressive, and hardworking . team with tremendous potential. The team has come a long way in the past 2 years, thanks to the strong and dedicated efforts of Coach Marty Morrison. Tbe field hockey team is aiming for an wtdefeated season next year, they weren't terribly far away from it this year. The field hockey team would also like to give thanks to the time and efforts of assistant coach Perky Francis, and manager Michele Beaulier. Union took revenge ()R RPI and beaUhem 15-10, 15·11, and 15-13 .on Monday night in the field house. · Union played a very smooth match. ~The team has really pulled together led by Captain Sheila O'Donnell's hard hitting and serving. Senior Diane Roncins overall consistency- especially at the net-paid off once again and reminded the team of how sorely she will be missed :next year. Lydia Canavan and Sue Marr exhibited fine . setting that ~ enabled hitters Jill Thomson, Sue Gehrer and Lynn LeBlanc to feed the Troylets leather. Janet Bhun and Kelly Green played good defensive games and took care of coverage behind the blocks. ln other play this last week, Union rose to the occasion on Halloween and beat Green Mountain 15-12, 15-8, They dropped a tough match to Siena 15-6, 14-16, 1~16. 01! Thursday Union defeated Columbia Green 15-17, 15-10; 15-8 and lQst to Russell Sage 15-12, 15-7. With their last win, Union guaranteed themselves of a winning season. Their record now stands at 11-9. THE OPEN DOOR 13e Jay Strlll Downtown~ 348·2719 \\::SS'~~~·;n-~~~ ... ( Vc - t• ~ ,._.w. ;_ .. WI off COlli Satu the sea~ gam .Tt all Fiel1 alm' gam Ac Dire offic play gras seas the inju1 qual F I th€ wh sou dOl on pul 1 soo iss: Co1 hOt offi sue wil ass ne) - SOil ter: 1 isr res F eac am up per I in, brc Co1 dis f'(JT Me ( pol \It cet the kn<

~ ..FouTJtkcl ot Union College 1~77 :Schenectady, New York Thursday, Nov. 16, 1978 s.- .. alaries -Reassessed . . . by DOUG ROSENFELD As an effort to appease, at least in part, faculty discontent over policies of salary·-- ad~ justment pursued by the Collegt in recent years, the Committee on Faculty ( COF) is un- der-taking a reassessment of the merit increase system. Discussion on this topic has domlnated all COF meetings . called to order so far this year. i\s incentive for this reassessment, Professor W. Martin of the COl:, in a memorandtu:n released to the facult\y cites •·•various pr()blems in the operation of that system. over the past years, as well as ·fne particular unhappiness with the manner in which the system was applied last year.'; reward faculty ''teaching, _;,..holarship, and service to the College\ with firtcial com- pensat.i,on. Although the COF\strongly ,endorses a merit system\ of this type, l't is disdainful of the effects of the program as it now stands, and perceives a need to attend to some fundam.ental short· c9mings. The problems endemic to the merit system have _§hown themselves to be both perennial and worsening. Central to this groUp of problems is the inadequate size and, therefore, distribution, of the financial pool .available for faculty raises. Professor William ·Martin I'he merit systeDl is a wage incentive system designed to · In a system where there -is not enough money to increase all salaries to keep pace with in- flation, there certainly is not enough to distribute unevenly unevenly without further Athletic Project At- Standstill . by JIM DAVIS - \A-ft-er c 0 n 8 id ~ r able in Sakala's words. \I'm a little intensive usehoftth~ f~cilities to 1 When the ·soccer team faced off against Glassboro State College of New J.ersey last Saturday afternoon, it marked the first time an NCAA post• season ·soccer tournament game has been played here. The contest took place-like all home games--on Daley Field. But the field's condition almost -e;aused the site of the game to be moved elsewhere. According to Athletic Director R.ichard Sakala, NCAA officials 'were concerned that play on Daley Field-whose grass has been worn <ilown by a season of use-would increase the chances of participants' injuries, as well as lowering the quality of play. Iri a policy change enacted by the Conduct Committee, whtmever a false alarm is sounded in any of the College d()rmitories, all persons living on the floor where the alarm is pulled will be subjected to fines. The first time a false alarm is sounded, a warning will be isssued to floor members by the Conduct Committee via the llousing office. Students on the offending floor will be. told. that such action is dangerous and will result in a fine to be assessed to eacq person the next time a false alarm is · somded anh time during the term. · The second time a false alarm isreceivedfrom that floor, each resident will be fined $2. For every subsequent alarm, each individual will be assessed another fine f()r an additional $1 up to a maximum fine of $5 per person. If a sixth false alarm is turned in, all floor residents will be brought befote the Conduct Committee for \appropriate disp()sition\ in the words of f'~mmittee rhairman Chris McCarty. discussion, they decided to disappointed.\ the extent t a It IS near y allow the game to be played 'Fhe complex, whose plans are impossible to prepare· fields to on display outside the Lamont an acceptable use condition,\ in here,\ he said, ''because Union f b d was ranked s~ond in the House office of Robert B. the words o a . u get swnmary Region I Division III tour,. Rasmussen, vice ·president for for the proposed complex. Collage resources, has an \The Board of Trustees is nament. \' · · \ s k 1 estimated constru.ction cost of aware of the proj.ect, a a a \But they also said that in the d kn if future years Daley will be $942,000, said. \But I on't . ow Ce .. nterpiece of the new they're soliciting contributions unacceptable for post-season play. Improvements will have facilities would be an all- for it.\ to be made before the College purpose field with artificial turf Financing is the stumbling can h<Jst anothe tournament on Daley Field. This would be block. Discussing the project, game.\ used for intercollegiate football, Rasmussen ss;tid that \its plan~ A plan for the renovation of la~rosse and soccer games, as are well thought out.\ all Union outdoor facilities has well as intramural play. But be added that''first Around the field a 400 meter priority now is to improve the been prepared by the athletic department (see Concordiensis, siX-lane track; also of synthetic College's overall long-term April 12). The project would composition would be built. financial position.\ ' Permanent stands for 2500-3000 To do that. an effort is un- take abo_yt two years to com- plete and was presented to the perso11s and lighting would also derway to increase con- be installed. tributions to the annual fund Board of Trustees, last spring. B In addition, construction and endowment. utit's now at a \standstill , plans call for reso~ding ~f In 1977-78, endowmwnt ac- Gatris and Alexander Fields for counted for 9.4 percent of use as intramural and Union's income of slightly more recreational sites, as well for than $16 million, and gifts and . some varsity soccer games. grants accounted for 8. 7 per· Now there's a. reason for those \There's no question that cent. people to dts-co.urage false there's a need for these \Compared with colleges like alarms fro~ ?eing pullell.~ . facilities,\ Sakal a said. As Williams and Lafayette, our The new fmmg proee.dure wll~~ _j_ustifi~ation, he noted that no financialsituation for the future only be used for mstanc~s new outdoor sports fields. have isn't strong,\ Rasmussen said. where when tere are no w,•t· been built on campus in some 25 He noted that the College's . n~sses to the alarms be1~g years. . endowment-financial holdings triggered. If the offender 1s ln that· time. t:Jnion '.s ~hose principal is held and caught in the act, he will still be enrollment has alm~st doubled income is used to finance subject to the $25 fine that. is increasing the number of in: operations-is about $30 million; standard penalty for tampering tercollegiate and intramural significantly less than similar with alarms, extinguishers and teams and contests. institutions'. other fire prevention equip- The result has been a ''more Continued on page 3 ment. , Acc()rding to 'McCarty, the ;', , Conduct Committee first t~~h discussed-the new fire alarm ;.. fine schedule at the end of · October. · He added · that the ~'-;;:~ policy was made public Nov. 6, When he appeared before the Student Forwn. ''In addition to the frustration dorm residents experience when a false alarm ls turned in,\ noted a Conduct Committee memo, \the more crucial aspect is that the fire afarm system is losing its credibility. Students now automatically assume that the alarm is a flse one.\ disadvantaging some. To alleviate this difficulty in tht short-run, the COF \will for 1979-1980 only, recommend to the Board of Trustees that we distribute the money made available for salary increments as an equal percentage, across- the-board increase.\ For the long-run, definitive solutions must be found. The cymc1sm that an inadequate-wage fostt!rs within .an employee is sufficient within itself to make him apathetic towards his work. There is a further implication for faculty morale posed by competition for a scarce money resource by academic divisions within the faculty. Intra-faculty de tisiveness, perpetuated by jealousies over uneven wage increases, creeps into faculty attitudes towards teaching and inevitably introduces the taint of apathy. Faculty concerns seem to pivot on two issues. First, there is a cDncern over their absolute wage levels and the lack of provision for cost-of-iiving increases in the wage ad- justment system. This is a pressing problem in the absence of a co~tract with cost-of-living \escalator\ clauses, situated in an inflationary economic period. Its solution is attainable through contract negotiations. Second, the faculty is con· cerned with the merit increase system as it stands, pointing to its inequity as an inexcusable evil. At the same time, however, the COF favors a program on merit increase, indicating an appreciation of the concept. To ameliorate the situation, the COF offers - \a revised merit system which will take into acc~ut the changes in the Union College faculty and in ·· the salary structur.e which have occurred since the merit system was first installed.\ Alth()ugh it may be justifiable to anticiapte a resolution of these faculty preoccupations - with salary matters, it may not be reasonable to expect apathetic attitudes to be resolved as quickly. The ir.· terpersonal and interdivisional rifts that have been opened by faculty competition for salary increments may not be p!trge(; as quickly as their causes an rectified. This is cause enou;..;l1 for worry. But, as things now Continued on page 18 Commenting on the new policy, Chairman McCarty said, \lt's intended to provide in· centive for students to policr themselves. Usually,. someone knows who's vulling._the alarm. · With thr threat of facing increasing fines for false alarms, it addrd that \studnets wUl become more reluctant to set off the system, fire alarms will decrease in numbers, ami the entire system will begin to regain credibility.\ Dal~y Field, the pr~posed site for an a 11-purpose field.

Page 2 OONOORDIE/NS{S, November 16~ 1'978 Editorials Bureaucratic- R .. estrtcttons Since the adoption of the most recent Constitution and accompanying by-laws outlining the structure of Student Government, our elected officers have had to fimction under a highly restrictive an:d' virtually u1.amendable set of rules. In a move to alleviate the b·Jrden, the Student Forum is presently circulating a p~tition proposing the adoption of an alternative procedure. For the proposal to be adopted, the petition requires the signature of fifty percent of the student body. · If the proposal is accepted, an amendment to the bylaws may be adopted when two-thirds of the Forum members pvesent vo.te in favor of the change. Under the present procedure, an amendment can only be adopted if a referendum iR held in which at least fifty percent of the Student Body participates, and two- thirds of the total votes are cast in favor of the amendment; when two-thirds of the students present at a Town Meeting vote to adopt the amendment; or when fifty percent of the Student Body signs a petition proposing the change. We believe that, in the case of amending the by- laws, all of these present alternatives are cum- bersome and unrealistic. No doubt, reasonable constraints are necessary to protect against haphazard amendments to the Constitution. But these constraints, we feel, act as an unreasonable burden to the amendment procedure of the by-laws. Unlike the Constitution, which serves as a general framework for Student Government, the by-laws are the statute_s of Union College Student Government, and are by nature, much more specific than the Constitution. They specifically enumerate the functions and con- duct of the Student Forum and its satellite com- mittees. Because of this specific nature, the by-laws require updating at regular intervals. In the interest of expediency and in an effort to reduce the bureaucracy inherent in the Forum's governing structure, the proposed amendment is essential. We recommend that, when approached by a member of the student government with the petition to make this positive change, all students add their name to it. In order for student representation at this college to prove its ability to function effectively,streamliningof the present student governance structure is truly needed. Concordiensis will print its next issue on January t1, 1979. OORRJJJOTION: The entertainment for the International Everting on · · Saturday, November 18, will be held in the Old Chapel. not the Memorial 9hapel as posters have stated. ,-o&D '\' Ointirnr ~~ct~ ~--r~-~ · 17 .~{ ~!!~ 95 lltrn.sie ra~~tJ.c.'fl Editors-in-Chief Production Manager News Editors Layout Editor Feature Editors Associate Editor Classified Editor Arts Editor Copy Editor Environs Sports Editor Photo Editor Subscription Editors Calendar Editor Fine Lines E1itor Staff Photo Staff Business Staff +~~~~:; - David Schmertz, David Rubin Debbe Damrell Jim Davis, Sue Barnhart Danny Woinilower Roslyn Stone, Donna Creeley Matt Nagorsky. Terri Moran Steve Monosson Alissa Schagrin Lisa Voerman, Eileen Kanter Tom Buiocchi Pat Wright, Cary Feuerman Ken Marks, Valerie Juster Melissa Cragin JanDeDeka Marty Dolan, Doug Rosenfeld, Susan Marr Jiin Manni.pg, Dwight Pakan Richard Sher · Larry Fallek, Dale Sponaugle, DarrelSeife, Susan Pava, Jenifer Aronoff, Sharon Moss Amendment PropoSed At a recent Student Forum meeting several changes in the hy•laws of .the Student Forum were voted on and passed. These.changes for the most part involved policies that have been accepted practices for the past four year. Some· of these are that the chair.person of the Student Life Committee serve on the Student Forum, that the Agenda Committee of the Student Forllfil be composed .of the president, the secretary and the sophomore, junior, and senior class representatives who received the second highest number of votes in their elec- tions. The class representatives who received the highest number of votes serve on the student committee on Com- mittees. There ai\e additional changes of this type and I don't really see the benefit in printing them here. (Copies of the -b~-laws, which include these changes, can be obtained by contacting a student represen_tative. Tilere are some changes that are real changes, such as the creation .of the student concert committee and the changing of thenwnberof members serving on various Student Forum committees .. In addition there have been changes in the wording in some sections of the by-laws for the purpose of clarification. The caanges des~ribed above were passed by a two-thirds majority of the k>rum. ·This is the procedure that .the by-laws states should be used to amend them. · At the next meeting, it was brought to the attention of the ~ Student Forutn, by a· forum member that there was a diserepency between. the constitution of the student body and the by-law~ of the Student Forum, The Constitution states that amendments to the by-laws can be adopted in one of the · following ways: a. In a formal referendum, in which 50 percent of the student body must participate, two- thirds of the total number of votes cast must favor adoption of the amendment. b. A simple majority of the total membership of the Student Forum must vote in favor of another petition signed by 50 percent of the student body. One·half of the entire mem- bership of the Student Forum, plm; one, must cast favora&le votes. ' c. Two-thirds of those students present as a town meeting must vote in favor of adopting the propos!:!d amen- ment. It was decided by tl;le forum that none of these methods were practical because it is hard to get 50 percent partic;!ipation in a referendum and hard to have enough stud'ents presel}t-~10 percent is necessary-at a town meeting;, ' In addition, methOd b, although possible, greatly slows down the operations · of the forurri, especially if proposed. changes involve items similar to those mentioned above. During the next week, student representative~ will be cir- cu. lating a petition in favor of changing the process for adopting amendments to the by- laws. Method b. will be .Used to carry out the possible change?. It will be in favor of an amendment to the Constitution that will add as Section 2 Part d: anclll:V' flf}J~haVmJ({ th~n:lactline:~··'· ···-~lnY't:hitl;l! Otih&ti 1 ·tht:m student''taX .. , . : · · .. , . 'fee} : J:ll®ies:·' I must· again-eaUtothe·attention of·Mr.·· A proposed amendment to the By-Laws of the Student Fo1·um shall be adopted when at least two·-thirds of the Student ll~orum present at a ,regular meeting of the forum, vote in its favor. Such a proposal must be submitted to the Student Forum Agenda Committee and appear on the agenda for the forum meeting at which it will be considered and voted upon. This change may seem large. It pertab1s to the way that the student F'orum operates and the ways that its committees f.unction. Its intent is not t.o take away any of the student body's say on any -matters, but only to to be a way to expedite actions of the · Student Forum. · It does not propose any changes in the constitution of the student body, that inclUdes the followingc: Section 4. The town me_eting Shall have the power of final arbiter in all decision& , con- ferred upon the student body. The Student Forum shall be subject to all decisions of the town meeting. '; Section . 5. · A town meeting may be called by a petition of 10 ! · percent of the members of the Student Body . . . So there will always be a process available to the $tudent body that can be used as a check on the StudE:nt Forum. I don't want to give the impression that this is a small change. Although I am in favor of the cl]:ange,I would urge that everybody thinks carefuUy about it before signing the petition. · Steve Grill Senior Class Representative .ft,utk:in · Coneordy'\'s non .. tax., ,, ' relate.d incomes and point uttt · , ·· that unless he holds some secret . handbook of regulations, he has no say as to . what any Cc10tinued on . . 1 ·· I ha --:rn.ysel play,' after would this p: innllin de die< is a rr .of onl~ studer so met play, cr-itic ratior fee lin! letter~ To .I posith The breatt possib a mu: Many· puppe1 turtleE wePe prove1 them~ which dranct produt As i collecl Whole, the~viE one : preser the p1 cancel The .a< clarif audier not tt proceE not he] a co mater questit reco:g: Vie we There story 1 the E produ iinposl ascert inc;OmJ TomF by thE miSCOI Oont: '\We doVi:me usually apiece: added, wants for a ~ constr complE For that is though \ThE ~vetall lndivit considt Estil outdoo ;.<> Site pr Astrot1 Six-lar Stands Lighti1 Total: Tota 78 Tuiti01 percer Auxili: 02.5 1 Endov (9.4 p~ Gifts~ percer New· (3.5 p Other

Page 2 OONOORDIENSIS, November 16, 197'8 Editorials Bureaucratic Restrictions Since the adoption of the most recent Constitution and accompanying by-laws outlining the structure of Student Government, our elected officers have had to ftmction under a highly restrictive· and virtually u \lamendable set of rules. In a move to alleviate the b:.1rden, the Student Forum is presently circulating a p~tition proposing the adoption of an alternative procedure. For the proposal to be adopted, the petition requires the signature of fifty percent of the student body. If the proposal is accepted, an amendment to the bylaws may be adopted when two-thirds of the Forum members present vo.te in favor of the change. Under the present procedure, an amendment can only be adopted if a referendum is held in which at least fifty percent of the Student Body participates, and two- thirds of the total votes are cast in favor of the amendment; when two-thirds of the students present at a Town Meeting vote to adopt the amendment; or when fifty percent of the Student Body signs a petition proposing the change. We believe that, in the case of amending the by- laws, all of these present alternatives are cum- bersome and unrealistic. No doubt, reasonable constraints are necessary to protect against haphazard amendments to the Constitution. But these constraints, we feel, act as an unreasonable burden to the amendment procedure of the by-laws. Unlike the Constitution, which serves as a general framework for Student Government, the by-laws are the statutes of Union College Student Government, and are by nature, much more specific than the Constitution. They specifically enumerate the functions and con- duct of the Student Forum and its satellite com- mittees. Because of this specific nature, the by-laws require updating at regular intervals. In the interest of expediency and in an effort to reduce the bureaucracy inherent in the Forum's governing structure, the proposed amendment is essential. We recommend that, when approached by a member of the student government with the petition to make this positive change, all students add their name to it. In order for student representation at this college to prove its ability to function effectively. streamlining of the present student governance structure is truly needed. Concordiensis will print its next issue on January 11, 1979. OORREOTION: The entertainment for the International Evening on Saturday, November 18, will be held in the Old Chapel not the Memorial Chapel as posters have stated. tal>\\\ ~~0'91 Qlonrnr ~r;- .. ~ 17 ,i{ '{r-3!: 95 ilirusis ?Jf;-::f!c_'f! Editors-in-chief Production Manager News Editors Layout Editor Feature Editors Associate Editor Classified Editor Arts Editor Copy Editor Environs Sports Editor Photo Editor Subscription Editors Calendar Editor F'ine Lines E-ditor Staff Photo Staff Business Staff .,/f,L~:; \\'iCT.U\\ · David Schmertz, David Rubin Debbe Damrell Jim Davis, Sue Barnhart Danny Woinilower Roslyn Stone, Donna Creeley Matt Nagors.ky- TerriMoran Steve Monosson Alissa Schagrin Lisa Voerman, Eileen Kanter Tom Buiocchi Pat Wright, Cary Feuerman Ken Marks, Valerie Juster Melissa Cragin JanDeDeka Marty Dolan, Doug Rosenfeld, Susan Marr J.im Manning, Dwight Pakan Richard Sher Larry Fallek, Dale Sponaugle, Darrel Seife, ~usan Pava, J enifer Aronoff, Sharon Moss Amendment Proposed At a recent Student Forum meeting several changes in the by-laws af the Student Forum were voted en and passed. These changes for the mast part involved policies that have been accepted practices for the past four year. Some ef these are that the chairperson of the Student Life Committee serve on the Student Forum, that the Agenda Committee of the Student Forum be composed of the president, the secretary and the sophomore, junior, and seni0r class representatives who received the second highest number of votes in their elec- tions. The class representatives who received the highest number of votes serve on the student committee on Com- mittees. There are additional changes of this type and I don't really see the benefit in printing them here. (Cepies of the 'by-laws, which include these changes, can be obtained by contacting a student representative. There are some changes that are real changes, such as the creation ef the student concert committee and the changing of the nwnber of members serving on various Student Forum committees. In addition there have been changes in the wording in some sections of the by-laws for the purpose of clarification. The changes described above were passed by a two-thirds majority of the forum. This is the procedure that the by-laws states should be used to amend them. At the next meeting, it was brought to the attention of the Student Forwn, by a forwn member, . that there was a To the Editors: discrepency between the constihdion of the student body and the by-laws of the Student ForU:m. The Constitution states that amendments to the by-laws can I!Je adopted in one of the · following ways: a. In a formal referendum, in which 50 percent of the student body must participate, two- thirds of the total number of votes cast must favor adoption of the amendment. b. A simple majority of the total metnbership of the Student Forum must vote in favor of another petition signed by 50 percent of the student body. One-half of the enUre mem· bership ef the Student Forum, plus one, must cast favorable votes. c. Twe-thirds of those students present as a town meeting must vote in favor of adopting the proposed amen- ment. It was decided by the forum that none of these methods were practical because it is hard to get 50 percent participation in a referendum and hard to have enough students present--10 percent is necessary~at a town meeting. In addition, method b, although possible, greatly slows down the operations of the forum, especially if proposed changes involve items similar to those mentioned above. During the next week, student representatives will be cir- culating a petition in favor of changing the proc~ss for adopting amendments to the by- laws. Method b. will be 1 used to carry out the possible Change?. It will be in favor of an amendment to the Constitution ' that will add as Section 2 Part d: A preposed amendn1ent t<Jthe By-Laws of the Student Fomun shall be adopted when at least two-thirds of the StudeAt Fomm present at a regular meeHng of the forum, vete in its favor. Such a proposal nmst be submitted to the Student Forum Agenda Committee and appear on the agenda for the {()rum meeting at which i:t will be considered and voted upon. This change may seem large. It pertains to the way that :the Student F·orum operates and the ways that its committees function. Its intent is not to take a way any of the student body's sayon any matters, but only to to be a way to expedite actions of the Student Forum. It does not propese c:m.y changes in the constitution of the student body, that includes the following: Section 4. The town meeting shall have the power of final arbiter in all decisions con- ferred upon the student :body. The Student Forum shall 'l>e subject to all decisions of tl:J.e town meeting. Section 5. A town meeting may be caUed by a petition <>flO percent of the members of the Student Body . . . So there will always be a process available to the student body that can be used as a check on the Student Forum. I don't want to give the impression that this is a small change. Although I am in favor of the change, I would urge that everybody thinks carefulty about it before signing the petition. Steve Grill Senior Class Hepresentative -. '; •, ._::.:-,.·':·- -;:·.--.~-\..- ·;,:-:-:' supp~>rted ··both by student tax ,,,.,,t1tg'&fi1Z'Mt:iofi dO'€$. with . ,. fUJtds and·. st!if:..gehefated''fu'fltfs '\\'hfilti'ey~' If\sltcli'a'~nrutd' .. · from ads and out o:f~t'&c:f<'su&: · ·· \extst~'tlierfT ask Mt. R:utkir{'tli' scriptions. I cannot fintferst:and · ·. make It''Pttolic~ · · · · 1 \\ '< ' why Mr~ Rutkin is agalnst·m~' ·''Jr'arrF''UJ?set by Mf.<Rtitk~'s' creased advertising revertue attempt t& control ·· bQtff the· As a student concerned abqut (whether or notthis increase iS fimrneiai··· aspects and .. ac~ the welfare of Unil:lrf COllege related to the purchase of <a , vettising cotlt~ilt of the ~pe1'.: ·and· othe··. contintt~ng efforts to phtf.nwanswe:tingdeviee}~ which: Nqt : el~e ean de~til}.e''nis:' better it, featlnot\Stand idly by would· in tutrt d:ecreilse ' the; .. adtf 'fie n~s not actertin t'be; aml; permit a letter such as the paper's dependence on student beSt irite:r~st ~r- the students. ' one written by Alan Rutkin activity fees~ I have nut in my When tnY student activity fee stand without refute., Let me three years here heard any goes lip next year; Jn fti}l oogin by ttlarifytng that I am in complaints as t(l the number of · knowtetlge<6N~ffortsto cut··d6wn •· no way conneetea with cun- ads. I also don't see ht~w atldmg tUlttrganizational afid· crutn~x eordiensis and have only in even an ~ntire extra. page . of spending (these ·efforts . being mind the improvement <>f our ,advettisements Will aff~ct the ·denied' fi}' Mr. R:utkin. and oos· e<JUege community, ·· readers if the amount of news -cotnrruttetfJ; I will feetrttithi~' · As,an indep-endent to both the temains cunstant. Finally I. see but r~sentruent of his • actibti~t · tax , committee a'nd to the an organization makillg a ' I'm sure I will not be ali:lfie. '' newspaper~ ·-·1 have kept concerted effnrt i'O cut- spen- ~caFefu11y attuned to thcH:~urrent . ding,. :Yet the tl)ad to this ,s!tuatiorr,;andyet M'Vitk.ept it in reductio.n is being cbliOcked. ' perspeetwe. Ilion ~frtim the Why? ··· · ide- 31 ·Fi~taUyt.:I:must que~·;·~,Rttiitnk::trta.· point l)f prO'Cedute: Mr. ··J ·· sta:t 1 ¢S<'·• ~~The edi11:'ots' <· 'of·· Con~fol'di;ensis negl.ected' t'Q. · mfomt·either the tax committee I ha ~mysel play,' after would this p .innurr dedic< is a rr of onl~ studer so met play, critic ratior feelin1 letter~ To posiW The breaU possib a_mu: Many puppe turtle1 were prove1 them! which dramJI produ1 As i colled whole. the.vi« one , preser the pl concer Thea1 clarif audier not tl proceE not he a co mater quesU recog vi ewe There story 1 the 1 produ impos: ascert inc om Tomf by thl misco: Coot ''We dov.mE usuall) apiece added, wants for a 1 constr com ph For that is though \Th1 :weral indivi· consid EstiJ outd~o Site pr Astrot Six-Jar Stand~ Lightil Total: Tot~ 78 Tuitio: percer Auxili fl2.5 1 En do\ (9.4 PI Gifts~ percer New (3.5 p Other

OONCO:P,DIENSIS~ Nove.mber 16;, 1918 : - - - . - .. Tom ·Paine· Reviewed • • • • ' -' -. T - •• ' - • • • - • ' ... ~y STEVENMONOSSON I have been asked to address -:myself to the subje:ot of the play, Tom Paine, a topic Which, after. much r consi~era~ion, I would much rather avoid. For this prqduction is the result of innumerable hours of. work and dedication; and to, pick it apart is a most unholy ·cause, worthy · of only the most unscrupulous of student reviewers. Noneth.ele~s, some.thing must be said 'for the play, and it is hoped that all criticisms will :be taken rationally and without iU feeling.. (i.e., no threatenin:g letters, please. ) To begin with, let's cite all positive aspects .of -'D))J1 Paine. The set is a})sol utely breathtaking ·and (if it were possible) should he preserved in a_ museum for all to. witness. Many 'of the p~;ops-the :gig;lntio puppets, the bear, pig, and turtles, and many other effects wer,e so captivating that th~y proved to be an attrac.tion in . themselv.es, a circuntstance which turns· out 'to be a hin- drance rather than a boon to the production. · · As it stands, Tom Paine is a collection . of visuals which as a whole, do not connect. ~efore the~viewer can .recuperate from one special effect, he is presented. with another and in the process finds no time to concentrate on the play itself: The actors valiantly attempt to clarify ,matters by ~asking audience members whether or not they· are intuned to the proceedings, but even this does not help. One may argue- that in \' dpring .the question and a an~ swer period. {No . joke, there actu~lly is one, ) In retrospect, it could be 'Said that too much work has gone into this production. Yet, fruits have been behind from the eJct;ensive wor-k,. aside fr-om the sets and pmps, and that is in the area of the .acting. The cast is.near .p~rfect with the · only criticism being that -they seemed so at hom~ on .stage that it ~as (:)ifficult to accept them as characters and not them· selves. Alan RQsenfield does a fine job in the title role, as does Verna· IJOwe as his beneficiary ana companion. Tom F.f;lrrell provides the most outrightly humorous moment .of the evening, as nis portrayaJ.of the : bishop consecratingthe bear pit is sul;)reme. 'The actual con- ' ~~ nection to the plot is still, in my mind, unidentifiable.; yet, the moment remains hilarious; All other cast ttrembers are to be complimented on . a fine job, Di:rector Bob Walter ha!t..__ molded thern .into a cohesive unit which w1der normal cir- cumstances rnig.ht have carried off the play. · If only he had decided to coordinate their efforts ·rather . than leaving them to iffiprovise :the production, things might have gone forthe better. --~--~~~~~--~--- ~ . Tom Paine is a worthy pi·ece, ~ especially if ene has not \' previously capght a production I in the Nott, for the spa~ whiCh ~ has . been created is ~ magnificent, There is so much to be gained from seeing this play' perhaps too much. ,r,-. Alan Rosenfield as Tom Paine. Goodman Speaks On Emp~oyment .· ' ' - . by PETER PEI\RIN On Thursday, No:v. 9, 'Union's ·Science and. Engineerigg Colloquium hosted the third in a continuing series ,of 'le(ltures. Betty Goodman, the- director of placement, spoke on ··~oq. and Getting the Job.\ · Ms. Goodnian, a Schenectady native., is a fr~shlnan at Union this year. Her experience in··· eludes professional em- ployment wunseling . with such companies as- Snelling and Snelling . and the Klein Com- panies. As Union's placement director, Ms. Goodman directs eni.ployment workshops that an~ .: ope:n . to· aU -interested -students. On Monday af- te~noons, there are workshops on 1·esume writing. Artd, on not legally bound to an~wer. These include areas about sex, date ,of birth, ethnic background, any record of .arrest, marriage status, and if one ,has children. Theapplication an!) resutne should contain - a cover letter addressed to a Specific ,person, and not \Dear Sir.\ The .impact of the first sentence of the .cover letter is extremely irilportant. Ms. Goodman --explained to h\!r audience that a person's first .ieb is the most imPortant ' one. AlthDugh it may not be related to one's career goal, perfonnance on that job will be used as a Judge for that person's effectiveness . _Unnecessary job changes Should be. avoided. If a person would like flexibility, he or-she · maybe interested in a company such as General Electric that allows its employees to transfer frpm one j:ob .post to another. The 'company which one joins shoUld reflect the individuals interests. The self-owned business lends pride and a feeling of ac- complishment to the· individual small com~nies are versatile, large companies have good fringe benefits and have a lot of room for advancement, and the government also has good fringe benefits .for its employees as well as $0und job security. Ms. Goodman noted that if the_ employee keep~ goals high and maintain~ a positive job at~ titude, career goals are at- tainable. C,en:ter -:For Movemen-t by MITCQELL WOLIN I credit and non-credit, with three tenns of credit classes worth one course credit. a college production the material is . not what's in question, but if there is no recQ-gQ!~~ble _pl.Qt. li11e. ·then-\ Viewer interes~ di~appears. There might have been .,a_ viable story underneath the mess, but the extravaganc.es of the production made 'it nearly impossible to follow; _What was ascertained was a _distorted; incomplete picture of. the play Tom Paine. This was evidenced by the actors surprise at the misconceptions of the audience .,. Tuesday , af~etr;too~s, · ~he workshop toptc 1s mterv1ew techniques. Since 1971, there has been a dance club at Union. However, . only in the past year have there been any attempts to formulate an active program of events for the entertainment and in- volvement ·of the College community, such as bringing in valuable tools for a person. Such arts teach awareness of the body as a means of com- munication, essentially as a viable alternative vehicle for .. expression. There is a productive type of vanity involved in learning how to control one's own phys_ical self to such a degree that one rould useit for \silent speech,\ or \body language.\ Options for the winter term include modern dance of both beginner and intermediate levels, improvisation, modem jazz, and possibly ballet. Athletics Continued from page 1 \We're looking for en- dowment contributions (that usually total $5,000 or more apiece),\ Rasmussen saicL He added, though, that '\ifa donor want.s to have his money used for a specific project, like the construction of the athletic complex, we wori't stop :him.'' For the immediate future, that is not the \first priority,',' . though. . · . ,. - \The College has to be in good overall financial shape before individual projects can be consider~d,\ R.a.smussen said. Estimated cost of proposed- outdoor athletic facilities: ... Site preparation: $2~0,000 Astroturf field: $396,000 Six-lane track: $54,000 Stands: $72,000 Lighting:. $100,000 Total: $942,000 Total College revenues, 1977~ 78 . Tuition and fees: $9,939,407 (61.2 percent.) Auxiliary operations: $2,038,515 (12.5 percent) Endowment income: $1,531,862 (9.4 percent) · Gifts and grants: $1,407,860 (8.7 percent) -- New York State aid: $546,250 f3.5 percent) Other: $733,486 ( ~· 7 per~ent) The placement office is open to students, seniors in par- ticular, that brings students into contac.:_t with prospective em- ployers. The office will continue to help the student after-·· graduation when be or she is looking for a second job. the KinetiCompany who per- formed here last year in a very enjoyable evening of modern dance. This year especially the dance club is energetically recuiting new members to join in the creation of a Union College center for movement. With the st~dent's cooperation, the office is able to keep an updated file on him or ' her. For further information on services 'offered ·by the IJlacement office, the phone numbet· there is 370-6176. .- In her-lecture, Ms. Goodman spoke on- the writing of the resume, the interview for a job, the job itself. tHe future thafthe job will bring, and the result of the job. . ~The resume, Ms. Goodman reminded tbe 25 members of her audience, is a word picture of the applicant. Therefore, it - should be tailore~ to the job he is applying for. If the applicant is ap~ing for two different positions in .dif· feretrt fields, he or she shou1d have bvo different resumes; there shoUld be one resume gea'red to each area. · A goad resume Ms. Goodman said is as ~oncise as possible, eliminating unnecessary words, has cQtrect dates,· qualifiable statement's, e~cellent credentials that include reference letters, and is up to date. Ms. Goodman· wamed her audience that the application_ form is a test. She cited as a11 example a company whose application form instructions noted. to \read all questions before . at~swering .. \ Question five said to ignore the first four questions. · When· answering the ap- plication's questions, she act- . ded, one should bear in mind those questions the applicant is Virginia Bush, chairman of the arts department, is strongly supportive of creating such a center. The ''movement center\ would combine most of the current forms of dance, ' movement, and technical work now existing on campus into an organized central system. It would include such diverse areas as mime, tai chi, martial ar:ts, all dance forms, and technical skills for per- formance, lighting and sound being the most common. · The purpose of the center would be to promote dance and body movement at Union while providing a source of artistic entertainn~ent for the college community through an active production schedule. In order to achieve this aim, the current dance club needs · people! ~ Especially needed are those with experience in the technical aspects of putting on performances, as well as organi~e1:s and performers. There are more than 50 people currently in the dance club who need yo.ur help. Those in· terested, ate urged· to contact Gainor Bradish in the English Department, or Chris Lindsay, the president oLthe dance club, at 374-6172 or {box 2558). The da.nce clubhas its office in room 214 of Carnegie Hall., · Oance and movement are J There is also a nice side benefit in that YDU will keep your bOdy in shape. It is even better than competitive athletics in this sense since ·it c~n e<1sily become a life-long past-time. There are several course options open to those interested in dance and. arts at Union, outside of the regular arts department curriculum. . Classes are offered for both Depending upon demand, other areas will be offered in the future. Pre-registration starts Monday, Nov. 20. Beginners of both sexes are especially welcmne. The cost for a class is $45, or $42 if you pre-register. That works out to $135 for one credit; significantly cheaper than a regular course at Union! The dance classes offer a great opportwlity to loosen up and \get in touch with your body:\ Guest performers and films enrich the experience in Continued on page 10 Amnesty lnt'l To Present. • • On Monday, November 27, the newly formed Amensty International Organization will sponsor Professor Byron Nichols and Professor Robert Sharlet in a discussion of the intet~national human rights situation and the legitimacy of activism with respect to it. Professor Nichols will con- tribute to the evening with his expertise on Latin America. an area ripe with oppression and receiving much current at~ tention, Having taught courses in· the Moral Dilemmas of Governing, he will undoubtedly raise questions concerning some common presumptions on human rights. His presence, Jmwever, shouldn;t be con- strued as an endorsement of 1\mnesty International. Prof~ssor Sharlet is acknowledged throughout the country as a prominent schola1 of Eastern European and Soviet jurisprudence, and has lectured often on hwmm rights. He · is also very dedicated to Arnnest) · International. The issue of human rights is very timely and of special urgency on campus due to the growth of the Amens.t~ movement. This is especially so in view of the organizations special campaigns in El Salvador. The discussion, in the form of an intellectual cabaret, begins at 8:00pm in the Cabaret room. The audience, to be admitted free of charge will be invited to partiCipate in the discussion which will prove to be lively and intellectual, -as those who know Professors Nichols and Sharlet · are aware.

OONCORDIENSIS) November 16_, 1978 Page 3 Tom Paine Re.viewed ~y STEVEN MONOSSON I have been asked to address ~myself to the subject of the play, Tom Pa,ine, a topic which, after much , consideration, I would much rather· avoid. For this production is the result of .innumerable hours of work and dedication; and to. pick it apart is a most Wlholy cause, worthy of only the most unscrupulous of student reviewers. Nonetheless, something must be said for the play, and it is hoped that all critidsms will be taken rationally and without ill feeling. (i.e., no threatening letters, plet~se.) d~ring the question and a an- swer petied. (No joke, there actually is one.) In retrospect, it could be said that too much work has .gone into this production. Yet, fruits .roave been behind from the extensive work, aside from the sets and props, and that is in the area of the acting. The castis Rear perfect with the · only criticism being that-they seemed so at horne on stage that it was difficult to accept them as · characters and not them- selves. Alan Rosenfield does a fine job in the title role, as does Vern a Lowe as his beneficiary and companion. Tom Farrell provides the most outrightly humorous moment of the evening, as his portrayal of the bishop consecrating the bear pit is supreme. The actual con- nection to the plot is still, in my mind, unidentifiable; yet,. the moment remains hilarious. All other cast members are to be complimented on a fine job. Director Bob Walter has_ molded them into a cohesive unit which under normal cir· cwnstances might have carried off the play. · If only he had decided to coordinate their efforts ·rather than leaving them to improvise .the production, things might have gone for· the better. Tom Paine is a worthy piece, ~ especially if ane has not c:: previously caj.lght a production I in the Nott, for the space which ~ has been created is ~ magnificent. There is so much o 0 .... to be gained from seeing this .if , s play, perhaps toe much. Alan Rosenfield as Tom Paine. To begin with, let's cite all positive aspects of Tom Paine. The set is absolutely breathtaking and .(if it were possible) should be pres'CI'ved in a. museum for all to witness. Many of the props-the gigantic puppets, the bear, pig, and turtles, and many other effects were so captivating that they proved to be an attraction in themselves, a cir.cumstance which turns out to be a hin- drance ratherthan a boon to the production. Goodman Speaks On Empl_oyment As it stands, Tom Paine is a collection of visuals which as a whole, do not connect. Before the.viewer can recuperate from one special effect, he is presented with another and in the process linds no time to concentrate on the play itself. The actors valiantly attempt to clarify matters by asking audience members whether or not they are intuned to the proceedings, but even this does not help. One may argue that in by PETER PERRIN On Thursday, Nov. 9, Union's Science and EngineeriQ.g Colloquium hosted the third in a continuing series of lectures. Betty Goodman, the director of placement, spoke on \You and Getting the Job.\ Ms. Goodnlan, a Schenectady native, is a fr~shman at Union this year. Her experience in- cludes professional em- ployment -counseling with such companies as Snelling and Snelling and the Klein Com- panies. As Union's placement director, Ms. Goodman directs employment workshops that are open to aU ·interested students. On Monday af- ternoons, there are workshops on resume writing. And, on a college production the material is not what's in question, but if there is no recognl.za.hle plQt line then ..... viewer interes~ disappears. There might have been a viable story underneath the mess, but the extravagances of the production made it nearly impossible to follow. What was ascertained was a _distorted; incomplete picture of the play Tom Paine. This was evidenced by the actors surprise at the misconceptions of the audience $ Tuesday afternoons, · the workshop topic is interview techniques. Athl·etics Cl{)ntinued from pagr 1 ''We're looking for en- dowment contributions (that usu.ally total $5,000 or more apiece),\ Rasmussen said. He added, though, that \iCa donor wants to have his money used for a specific project, like the construction of the athletic complex, we won't stop him.\ For the immediate future, lhat is not the ''first priority,\ lhough. ... ~ \The College has to be in goo.d ::~verall financial shape before individual projects can be consider~d.\ Rasmussen said. Estimated cost of proposed outd~or athletic facilities: Site preparation: $220,000 Astroturf field; $396,000 Six-lane track: $54,000 Stands: $72,000 Lighting: $100,000 Total: $942,000 Total College revenues, 1977· ~8 Tuition and fees: $9,939,407 (61.2 percent) Auxiliary operations: $2,038,515 ( 12.5 percent) Endowment income: $1,531,862 (9.4 percent) Gifts and grants: $1,407,860 (8.7 percent) New York State aid: $546,250 (3.5 percent) Other: $733,486 (4.7 percent) The placement office is open to students, seniors in par- ticular, that brings students into contact with prospective em- ployers. The office will continue to help the student after graduation when he or she is looking for a second job. With the student's cooperation, the office is able to keep an updated file on him or her. For further information on services ·offered by the placement office, the phone number there is 370-6176. r In her lecture, Ms. Goodman spoke on. the writing of the resume, the interview for a job, the job itself, the future that the job will bring, and the result of the job. -The resume, Ms. Goodman reminded the 25 members of her audience, is a word picture of the applicant. Therefore, it should be tailored to the job he is applying for. If the applicant is ap~ing for two different positions in dif- ferent fields, he or she should have two different resumes; there should be one resmne geared to each area. A good resume Ms. Guodman said is as .concist' as possible, eliminating unnecessary words, has correct dates, qualifiable statements, excE>llent credenfia ls that include reference letters, and is up to date. Ms. Goodman warned her audience that the application form is a test. She cited as an example a company whose application form instructions noted to \read all questions before a~swering.\ Question five said to ignore the first four questions. When answering the ap- plication's questions, she ad;;. ded, one should bear in mind those questions the .applicant is not legally bound to answer. These include areas about sex, date of birth, ethnic background, any record of arrest, marriage status, and if one _has children. The application and resume should contain a cover letter addressed to a specific person, and not \Dear Sir.\ The impact of the first sentence of the .cover letter is extremely important. Ms. Goodman -explained to her audience that a person's first job is the most important one. Although it may not be related to one's career goal, performance on that job will be used as a judge for that person's effectiveness. Unnecessary job changes should be avoided. If a person woulc' like flexibility, he or she may be interested in a company such as General Electric that allows its employees to transfer from one j-ob post to another. The 'company which one joins should reflect the individuals interests. The self-owned business lends pride and a feeling of acm compllshment to the individual small companies are versatile, large companies have good fringe benefits and have a lot of room for advancement, and the government also has good fringe benefits for its employees as well as sound job security. Ms. Goodman noted that if the employee keeps goals high and maintains a positive job at- titude, career goals are at- tainable. Center For Movement by MITCHELL WOLIN Since 1971, there has been a dance club at Union. However, _ only in the past year have there been any attempts to formulate an active program of events for the entertainment and in- volvement 'or the College community, such as bringing in the KinetiCompany who per- formed here last year in a very enjoyable evening of modern dance. This year especially the dance club is energetically recuiling new members to join in the creation of a Union College center for movement. Virginia Bush, chairman of the arts department, is strongly supportive of creating such a center. The ·•movement center\ would combine most of the current forms of dance, movement, and technical work now existing on campus into an organized central system. It would include such diverse areas as mime, tai chi, martial arts, all dance forms, and technical skills for per- formance, lighting and sound being the most common. The purpose of the center would be to promott' dance and body movement at Union while providing a source of artistic entertainn~cnt for the college community through an active production schedule. In order to achieve this aim, the current dance dub needs people! ! Especially needed are those with experience in the technical aspects of putting on performances, as well as organizers and performers. There are more than 50 people currently in the dance club who need your help. Those in· terested, are urged to contact Gainor Bradish in the English Department, or Chris Lindsay, the president of .the dance club, at 374-6172 or (box 2558). The dance club has its office in room 214 of Carnegie Halt. Dance and movement are valuable tools for a person. Such arts teach awa1:eness of the body as a means of com- munication, essentially as a viable alternative vehicle for exp1·ession. There is a productive type of vanity involved in learning how to control one's own phys_ical self to such a degree that one could use it for \silent speech,\ or \body language.\ There is also a nice side benefit in that you will keep your body in shape. It is even better than competitive athletics in this sense since it c~n eqsily become a life-long past-time. There are several course options open to those interested in dance and. arts at Union, outside of the regular arts department curricultm1. Classes are offered for both credit and non-credit, with three terms of credit classes worth one course credit. Options for the winter tenn include modern dance of both beginner and intermediate levels, improvisation, modern jazz, and possibly ballet. Depending upon demand, other areas will be offered in the future. Pre-registration starts Monday, Nov. 20. Beginners of both sexes are especially welcome. The cost for a class is $45, or $42 if you pre-register. That works out to $135 for one credit; significantly cheaper than a regular course at Union! The dance classes offer a great opportunity to loosen up and ''get in touch with your body.\ Guest performers and films enrich the exper!en_ce in Continued on page 10 Amnesty lnt'l To Present. • • On Monday, November 27, the newly formed Amensty International Organization will sponsor Professor Byron Nichols and Professor Robert Sharlet in a discussion of the international human rights situation and the legitimacy of activism with respect to it. Professor Nichols will con- tribute to the evening with his expertise on Latin America, an area ripe with oppression and receiving much current at- tention. Having taught courses in the Moral Dilemmas of Governing, he will undoubtedly raise question:; concerning some common presumptions on human rights. His presence, lli}wever, shouldn't be con- strued as an endorsement of ~mnesty International. Professor Sharlet is acknowledged throughout tht country as a prominent schola1 ::~f Eastern European and Soviet jurisprudence, and has lectured often on human rights. He is also very dedicated to Amnesh International. · The issue of human rights i!' very timely and of special urgency on campus due to the growth of the Amenst) movement. This is especially so in view of the organizations special campaigns in El Salvador. The discussion, in the form of an intellectual cabaret, begins at 8:00pm in the Cabaret room. The audience, to be admitted free of charge will be invited to participate in the discussion which will prove to be lively and intellectual, as those who know Professors Nichols and Sharlet are aware.

Union's First Lady by JUUE ARNOLD aud ROSLYN STON·E One of the very first things that. Virginia Auburn, wife of President Auburn,. djd upon her arrival at Uriion was to discover histori.cal oil paintings buried away in' storage in the library. These ·paintings, two of Eliphalet Nott, one of Henry Codman Potter :(Potter House! ! ) and one of George Washington, now hang proudly on the walls of the president's house. Mrs. Auburn's present project is to clean and restore these paintings, · Mrs~ Auburn, having only been here since August, talks about the school with a deep pride in being part of it. involving herself in the main- tenance of her temporary home, The Auburns also have homes in Akron, Onio and in Fort Lauderdale Fla. It was in Fort lauderdale that the Aubur:ns were married 22 months ago. Both President Auburn and· his wife enjoy travelling. Dr. Auburn has been around the world seven· times and Mrs. Auburn has been around the world four times. . Their home is. filled with sou1Leneirs from their journeys. An outstanding feature of their library is a pair of brass fighting cocks. A picture of Nephrotite hangs on the wall, reminding them of their trip to Egypt. get in here. It is composed of an academkally select group. If you get an A or B, you deserved it. You get a good education here. Students play hard as Well· as work hard.'' Mrs. Virginia Auburh As she Shows off the president~.s house, it is easy to sense the feeling she holds for Union. From the secretary in the master bedroom donated by Walter Baker, to the Amster- d~m elock in the· hall at the top of the stairs, sh.e considers it her duty to donate most of her time to the upkeep .of the nearly 150- year...old house. Thjs is the fourth college at which Dr. Aubur:n has served as interim president. The other three are Brooklyn. Polytechnic Institute, Stevens College for Women, and CedarcrestCoiiege in Allentown., Pa, As far as Mrs.. Auburn's impression of the Schenectady area is concerned, she com- mented that, ''It feeis like we rive in Union College, New York. We prefer to stay on ca111pus; our world is here.\ 1\his :beJng the case, the Auburns haYe attended such Onion activities as football and Rugby games, plays (Tom Paine), a Glee Club recital, and ·even th~ Pub on a Saturday night. Mrs. Auburn commented that she likes people and en· t~rtaiping--an important part of the job of the Pfesident's wife- .but also that she has a lot of .responsibility. · Jazz It Up! Having enjoyed: their stay at Union so far, Mrs. A;uburn commented on Union's role as a lOO~acre-college in the heart of a city. She is not sure that the students value it as much as they shoulq. · Sbe's :found people at Union very cordial; warm and hospitable, \and has many acqu.aintanc.es. Bei-ng associated with many different schools, Mrs. Auburn stated that the people who work at Union. are the most dedicate!:' people anywhere, Many of the students at Union complain about the cultural atmosphere here; ·It appears that either there isn't a suf- ficient nwnber of live rnllSical outlets, or many of those that do exist just don't cater t() the tastes of the intended audie.nce. As part. of an attempt to correct this situation, Union will be host for a unique musical experience on Friday, Nov. 17. The Union Jazz Ensemble, known for its versatility in style and expression, will be g_iving its fall concert in the Memorial Chapel at 8:30p.m. This 25-member band delivers a vast repertoire of musical idioms that promiSes to please any audience. They skillfUlly combine mellowness with excitement to, provide a stimulating experience to their listeners. The Jazz Ensemble, now enteringits third year, istf)tally student run and includes some of the best musical talent on campus. Fred Berkowitz, a senior electrical engineering major from Wantagh, N.Y.,' is their director. His well•kno\VIl ex-. pertise on the trumpet and his creative instincts lay tlie mUSical foundation of the group and his personality helps to stimulate the band's immense ·artistic energy. John Samuelian, a . senior biologist from Valley Stream, N.Y., is the executive lead~r of the organization. He als<J leads the band's fine trumpet section. ' THE OPEN DOOR 13S Jay Street'!lownrown SelleiWICtlld\f 346·2719' John's incredible techniqUe is joined with the tone and volume of John Sciortino and the towering range of Sam Rock~ well The trwnpets are rounded out with Rick Chinn and Jon Lee. Althougb the Auburns have a housekeeper, Mrs. AUburn . spends a great deal of her time The Jazz Ensemble iS blessed with a fine saxophone section; famous for their swinging rendition of Glenn Miller's \In; The Mood.\ This includes the lightning fingers of section leader Joe N alh on tenor, the total musicianship of Jeff Amado on alto and the versatility of Jeff Rusik on alto sax and other assorted instruments. Nancy Tubbs on flute and alto, Steve Lerner on alto, Dave Scinto and Cheryl Fitzgerald on tenor and Bill McNiece on bari complete the section. This year's newly revamped trombone section is also noteworthy. Kathy Keville on french horn has added a new dimension to the 'bOnes sound. She is met with soloists Tom j · N~lli and Andy McNutt, along with Brad Fisher on bass trombone. .>< • She said, '''Not everybody can Continued on page 10 Union Jazz Ensemble The rhytlun section has been improved this year. The classic jazz guitar of Kenny Needleman has been joined with the ex- citing piano and synthesizer of Bill Coury and the bass riffs of Irwin Menkin. vocals by Laura Masailo. . is currently in charge of public There are fot~,r senior& in the -relations and much of the arranging_. Their playing will be sorely missed next year. Jazz Ensemble this year who band's administration. helped tofvundthe band in 1977. Chemist Jeff Rusik from Whatever your tastes: jazz~ mck, big band or popular ,..Jf you want to see. an exqiting concert, a talented band, or if you jUst want to tela:x: to some great sounds, t_his concert is a must! They are Jeff Amado, Fred Perth, N.Y., is actively involve(} Berkowitz,.Jeff Rusikand John in several facets of the Also included are Chuck Katz on piano, Tom Goldstein on drums and Joe Laurin on percussion. The band is augmented with some stunning Samuelian. 'organization including equip.. They are all the products of ment, transportatioQ and UNlESS YOU PRINT YOUR OWN ... .. .fine high school music programs in which they ex.- celled. Jeff Amado, a pre-med student from Island Park, NY, ... it seems like a-student never comes up with ertough money to cover school expenses and hove anything left over to just enjoy. If you're one of those people who has to spend' too much study time earnmg. school money, read on. Air Force ROTC offers o· four. three or two-year scholarship for those who can qug!.ify. The plan pays $100 a month for expenses, plus all tuition, book costs and lab fees. While you're working on your degree, you:re also working toward a commission in the Air Force. After gr<icluation and ·commissioning, you'll enter active duty, and discover a whole new worlo. • You'll find chajlenge, responsibility, a demand for yotJr talents, and a high regard for what you're contributing. There's more. As an officer in the Air Force you'll have an. excellent salary with ctfull slate of benefits. Look Into AFROTC sct:lolarships. And while you're at II qsk .a.bout the Alt Force way of life. You'll discover more than just.a woy to make your finance$ come out while you're iii college. You'll discover a whole new world of opportunity. . Contact Ma ;or L~ster Q. Meads AS.& RC Room 317 RP I - Phon·e 270-6236 0 ROTC Gatew9y too great way of life .. . .... ~. t1 Fri • .., .... Eat • Fanta~tically tasty fish fill~ts, with tartar sauce, cole slaw and french fries. Big People $2.79 COLONIE 72 Wolf Rd. (across from Colonie Cenleri 459'9485 ~ SCHENECTADY 16·14 State St 382-8730 • LAtHAM \ Laf~am Comer Shopping Ctr. 785·89'57 Book Your Holiday Parties Now • ] v

Page 4 OONOORDIENSIS, November 1:6, 1978 U • ' F. L d • n1on s . trst a ·y by JULIE ARNOLD and ROSLYN STONE One of the very first things that. Virginia Auburn, wife of President Auburn, did upon her arrival at Union was to discover historical oil paintings bur.ied away in' storage in the library. These paintings, two of Eliphalet Nott, one of Henry Codman Potter (Potter House!!) and one of George Washington, now hang proudly on the walls of the president's house. Mrs. Auburn's present project is to clean and restore these paintings. · Mrs. Auburn, having only been here since August, talks about the school with a deep pride in being part of it. involv;ing herself i'n the main- tenance of her temporary home. The Auburns also have homes in Akron, Onio and in Fort Lauderdale Fla. It was in Fort Lauderdale that the Aubums were married 22 months ago. Both President Auburn and his wife enjoy traveHing. Dr. Auburn has been around the world seven times and Mrs. Auburn :has been around ~he world four times. . Their hvme is filled with sou\leneirs from their journeys. An outstanding feature of their library is a pair of brass fighting cocks. A picture of N ephrotite hangs on the wall, ,reminding them of their trip to Egypt. get in here .. It is composed of an academically select group. If you get an A or B, you deserved it. You get a good education here. Students play hard as well as work hard.\ Mrs. Virginia Auburn As she shows off the president's house, it is easy to sense the· feeling she holds for Uoion. From the secretary in the master bedroom donated by Walter Baker, to the Amster- dam clock in the hall at the top of the stairs, she considers it her duty to donate most of her time to the upkeep of the nearly 150- year-old house. This is the fourth college at which Dr. Auburn has served as interim president. The other three are Brooklyn Polytechnic Institute, Stevens College for Women, and Cedarcrest College in Allentown, Pa. As far as Mrs. Auburn's impression of the .Schenectady area is concerned, She com- mented that, \It feels. like we live in Union College, New York. We prefer to stay on campus; our world iS here.\ This being the case, the Auburns have attended such Union activities as football and Rugby games, plays (Tom Paine), a Glee Club recital, and even the Pub on a Saturday night. Mrs. Auburn commented that she likes people and en- tertaining-an important part of the job .of the Pfesidtmt's wife- but also that she has a lot of responsibility. Jazz It Up! Having enjoyed their stay at Union so far, Mrs. Auburn commented on Union's role as a 100-acre-college in the heart of a city. She is not sure that the students value it as much as they should. She's found people at Union very cordia:!, warm and hospitable, \and has many acquaintances. Being associated with many different schools, Mrs. Auburn stated that the people who work at Union are the most dedicatee' people anywhere, Many of the students at Union complain about the cultural atmosphere here. It appears that either there isn't a suf- ficient number of live musical outlets, or many of those that do exist just don't cater to the tastes of the intended audience. As part of an attempt to correct this situation, Union will be host for a unique musical experience on Friday, Nov. 17. The Union Jazz Ensemble, known for its versatility in style and expression, will be giving its fall concert in the Memorial Chapel at 8:30 p.m. This 25-member band delivers a vast repertoire of musical idioms that promises to please any audience. They skillfully combine mellowness with excitement to, provide a stimulating experience to their listeners. The Jazz Ensemble, now entering its third year, is totally student run and includes some of the best musical talent on campus. Fred Berkowitz, a senior electrical engineering major from Wantagh, N.Y., is their director. His well-known ex- pertise on the trumpet and his creative instincts lay tlie musical foundation of the group and his personality helps to stimulate the band's immense artistic energy. Jonn Samuelian, a senior biologist from Valley Stream, N.Y., is the executive leader of the organization. He also leads the band's fine trumpet section. . THE OPEN DOOR 136 Jay Stroet DowmOwri Sche'*llady 346·2719 ~,...· ··~- •• ·Wi~-· ........ ., ......... _ .. ~ John's incredible technique is joined with the tone and volume of John Sciortino and the towering range of Sam Hock- well. The trwnpets are rounded out with Rick Chinn and Jon Lee. The Jazz Ensemble is blessed with a fine saxophone section, famous for their swinging rendition of Glenn Miller's \In The Mood.\ This includes the lightning fingers of section leader Joe Nall1 on tenor, the total musicianship of Jeff Amado on alto and the versatility of Jeff Rusik on alto sax and other assorted instruments. Nancy Tubbs on flute and alto, Steve Lerner on alto, Dave Scinto and Cheryl Fitzgerald on tenor and Bill McNiece on bari complete the section. This year's newly revamped trombone section is also noteworthy. Kathy Keville on french horn has added a new dimension to the 'bones sound. She is met with soloists Tom j Nalli and Andy McNutt, along with Brad Fisher on bass trombone. Although the Auburns have a housekeeper, Mrs. Auburn spends a great deal of her time · ~ t'): She said, \Not everybody can .\ \' Union Jazz Ensemble Continued on page 10 The rhythm section has been improved this year. The classic jazz guitar of Kenny Needleman has been joined with the ex- citing piano and synthesizer of Bill Coury and the bass riffs of Irwin Menkin. vocals by Laura Masailo. is currently in charge of public There are four seniors in the . .relations and much of the arranging. Their playing will be sorely missed next year. Jazz Ensemble this year who band's administration. helped to found the band in 1977. Chemist Jeff Rusik from Whatever your tastes: jazz, rock, big band or popular, if you want to see an ex~iting concert, a talented band, or if you just want to relax to some great sounds, this concert is a must! They are Jeff Amado, Fred Perth., N.Y., is actively involved Berkowitz, Jeff Rusik and John in several facets of the Also included are Chuck Katz on piano, Tom Goldstein on drums and Joe Laurin on percussion. The band is augmented with some stunning Samuelian. organization including equip- They are all the products of ment, transportation and UNLESS YOU PRINT YOUR OWN .. I fine high school music programs in which they ex- celled. Jeff Amado, a pre-med student from Island Park, NY, ... it seems like a stlldeht never comes up with enough money to cover school expenses and have anything left over to just enjoy. If you're one of those people who has to spend too much study lime earn1ng school money, read on. Air Force ROTC offers a four. three or two-year scholarship for those who con qu<Jjify The pion pays $100 a month for expenses, pills all tuition, book oosts and lab fees. While you're working on your degree, you're also working toward a commission in the Air Force. After graduation and comm1ss1oning. you'll enter active duly, and discover a whole new world. You'll find chajlenge, responsibility, a demand for your talents, ond a high regard for what you're contributing. There's more. As an officer in the Air Force you'll hove on excellent salary w1th a· full slate of benefits Look into AFROTC scholarships. And while you're at it ask about the Air Force way of life. You'll discover more than JUSto way to moke your finances come out while you're in college. You'll discover a whole new world of opportunity. Contact Major L~ster ~-Meads AS& RC Room 317 RPI- Phon·e 270-6236 0 ROTC Gateway to a .great way of I ife. rA•••Weds. {1 Fri. -----Can Eat. Fantastically tasty fish fillets, with tartar sauce, cole slaw and french fries. Big People $Z.79 COLONIE 72 Wolf Rd. (across from Colonie Cel'lter) 459-9485 ~ SCHENECTADY 1614 Slate Sl 382·8730 • LATHAM Latham Corner Shopping Ctr . 785·8957 Book Your Holiday Parties Now • . l \ t t

n n y e N f . OONOORDIENSI8, November 16, 1978 Page 5 .. c•' i' ... ;' :.: .• ··· .( < Field ' ; To the Editors: f'ield h{.lckey this season was \.cosmic as in dust \ and we'd ~- ' .. , ' bke to thank all of the members of the team for making it so much fun for us. When the ' .~. My ··seasqn was fined With laughter, good timesJ and en· joyment ntlt because I love the S@rt and we had a winning season, l>ut because of the friends I made while playing. In the end, this is what is im· portant. Thanks . . . Scrappy, Ellen, Crazy Jane, Buthaina, Debbie D., Deb. S., Nancy fK3), Mona Newton-John, Wendy, Lisa (you little freshman), Gretchen, Michelle, Astro and all of the Jetsons ... it certainly was \cosrnic.\ doom this ath(etic publicity will bring onto all of Union College. We must dl) so, and as a start, we must ask for ttre resignation tlf the president if h~ wiU not stop this nonsense now. President Auburn, end this now or the cries will be heard, \Auburn Resign!\ , Academically yours, PeterT. Delahunt 86805 \ . Dear Jean: t-o Concordiensis season started we had to prove Sincerely, Both B6805 .and I are grateful to ourselves just how good we Judy that you 'do not st~reotype were, Whieh we did. BlQwing the computers, and will be happy to so~ks .c)ff of Col~ate was no easy M I supply some details. . task, but we sure did it. True, . 0 r e . C e _ As far as geneology/ is con- we did suffer some .disap-. cerned, first Union had 1620, pointing losses but w,e had II then 415, then 5700 and now nothing to be ashamed of . Fo··. ' • . .I e· s 6805; so 680[) is e1early in the because we never played a poor f()urtb generation. game. At the toU11lament at . 5700 was obviously female Smith College, the first ever for Dear Editors: since sbe conceived and brought Union Field Hockey, we made forth 6005. However, the sex of an outstanding first impression. . Have we notlearned from our new computeret like that ·of In giving the University of past mistakes? I speak young kittens, i.s very difficult Vermont, a. top seed in our specifically of Urtion's: late~ to determine. Since 6805lives in division, a t11ugb and Cl\:lse endeavor, the research into and a glass room it· was much too game, we established ourselves cnnstructiCJn of a bobsled and embarrassed to let me check in the eyes of those teams who team to go with it. Are we bling carefully. didn't know us as a sound: to our- past hockey nightmar.e? You asked about , vital strong:. - team - with Sure, big time athletics is en· statistics. Well, 68G5 is con· aggressiveness~ high skill level, joy able and an interest to all, sidera bly bigger than a and a strong desire to win. This but surely we are here for more breadbox, and its speed is impression c,Jlme only through than tG merely satisfy our almost as fast as thought. (For the dedication, desiret aild'hard outside wants for enjoyment.. more detailed informatiun you work by all of us. Yet we can't We are here to expand the might wish to consult the book forget that since field hockey is great gift of kbowledge and from Burroughs CorporaUon a team sp.oPt we· wouldn't have wisd001 we have been endowed which describes ··6005 and· ~d~~i~d~~f 11 i!te:~~~S:!s!~i1:' · \. ~!~bi)!~~rt~~:~~~~a~;:d~~~~t .· ~sf~}~~::~otild like to mee~ 680~. ·. · ·- · ·· . not athlEtics. please eome down to the lab; I ~arty The Whtsk.ey Snur Shall we '-pour money into a would be delighted to introduce Wll.iz was another reason for our Vkl'nture involving athletics and you. \ . ' • Thanks, all +·~tand idly .. by while our Thooghtfull~~. · a~demk stnreture ·crumbles?'··· · J headaches. No, we cannot! · ,, DavidG.Hannay t as!{ yoti till to uni~e'· onee - A\~,$acia~ I?{'OleSSO,r ·againe aJ?Jainst ·the te-frible · CGmputerScience PREPARE FOR: ,MCAT • OAT • LSAT • GMIT __, GRE • OCAT • VAT • SIT Fiexible Programs & Hours 'l'here IS a differen&e!!! Albany Center ~· ~-H ._ 163 Delawar~ Ave. .,. N' Delmar ..,. . · P hone (Sl 8 ) 439 _ 8146 EOUC •. TIONAL CENTER TEST PREP~RATION · SPECIALISTS SINCE 1938 Outside N.Y. State Only CAll TOLL FREE: 800·223-1782 . Cerlters In Mafor US C.ltles Toronto, f!uerto Rico and Switzerland NCAA SOCCER! \ ' BUS for Cortland-Union Soccer Game Sat •. Nov. 18, 1978 Game Time 1:00 P.M. LEAVING Alumni Gym 8:00 A.M. Sat., Nov. 18 BUS CHARGE $5/person round trip . SIGN·UP reservations mu!;!t be made and $~ fare paid by noon Friday, November 17 at Athletic Departp~ent Office in Alumni Gym P .S. Game, ticket prices at Cortlamd are $2 Adults ' $1 Students with I.D. $1 Children 12 and under. . SUPPORT THE UIION SOCCER TEAMI Please Writ-e Dear Editor: ·My name is Ronald Finkelstein and I am presently incarcerated in Green Haven State· Prison for possession of cocaine. 'l'his being my first offense, the tensitm and loneliness of prison life has taxed my control tQ the limit. I wish to correspond , .with anyone wijling to write and h~lp ease a troubled spirit. Thank you, Ronald Finkelstein Green Haven State Prison Stormville, New Y()rk 12582 No. 76-A·ll66 Parole Dear Students: I'm an inmate at Attica Correctional Facility. I at- te,nded college in Rochester. New York~ and after a party one night, I broke into a bar and opened it for business. Needless to say I was drunk at the time. I refused probati()n because I felt it was not a burglary. I did not steal anything, and even the owner of the bar testified I bad in fad made a profit for him. Well, I was given up to four years in prison for this act and have completed all but. seven months of my sentence. I'm due to be released May 24 because of good behavior allowances and have found out I will have to do six months under parole supervision. This means I can be violated and sent back here to finish up the six months if 1 so much as jay-walk, and I'm not exaggerating! I plan to live in Webster, New York, which is located just outside of Rochester{ and have found the parole system can even dictate where you'll live. I've learned quite a lot about life, or should I say existeni:!e, in here and have come to the conclusion, if a person has love within himself, _no amount of hate can alter his basic feelings. ~ I have witnessed cruelty beyond · your comprehension, yet I find the love I held when I first entered this establishment is still within my being. I'm one of the lucky ones. Since I'm a little afraid now C()ncerning people's reactions, I would like to get some honest 'opinions and ideas from my generation. . Do you think I should be honest and tell people where I've been, or not? Sincerely yours, Alfred John Gremillion CATAL.OG of COLLEGIATE RESEARCH Over 10;000 ltstings! All ~ubjects. Send NOW for this FREE catalog. !offer expues Dec 31. 1978) Send to: COLLEGIATE RESEARCH P.O. Box 84396, Los A.ngeres. CA. 90073 TRAIN WITH THE PROS Use the .same NAUTILUS traing machines used by play·e,rs in the N. F. L., N. B.A. and the N.H.L. Whe!herpreparing for your favorite sport or just seekmg t~at well toned, healthy appearance, our facilities are second to none. SCJIE NAUTILUS FITNESS CENTER 120 S. Church St. Schenectady, N.Y. · in -6964 ./' Buy Your Record at the Campus Store! NEW ARRIVALS: 1. Van Morrison- WAVELENGTH 2.-Barbara Steisand · GREATEST HITS 3.- Nick Gi.lder -CITY NIGHTS 4. · John Palumbo· INNOCENT BYSTANDER 5.- Rennaissance- NOVELLA · SUGGESTED BUYS: 1.- Aero:>mlth- LIVE! 2.· Firefall- ELAN 3. Steely i)an- GREATEST HITS 4. t=oreigner- DOUBLE VISION 5.· Lynar'd Skynard~ FIRST AN 0\ .•• LAST DISCO!!! 1.- A Taste of Honey- f:lOOGI E OOGIE OO~IE 2.· VIllage People· MACHO MAN

n \ OONOORDIENSIS, November 16, I.918 Page 5 L t ... t•. · .. .. ., · __ . -- ·.. -·'. - \·(' •• . . $' :.~ - • . _:·:;·, .· . ' ~:,·' ' *'': - _/·.:~ -- : ' •' . . ,.~ .· ·•. r~rs-, .... . 'llif. . .... ._.,. . Continued frnm page 2 Field _Hockey / To the Editors: Field hockey this season was \cosmic as in dust\ and we'd ~ - ' ' like to thank all of the members of the team for making it so much fun for us. When the season started we had to prove to ourselves just how good we were, which we did. Blowing the socks Off of Colgate was no easy task, but we sure did it. True, we did suffer some disap- pointing losses but we had nothing to be ashamed of because we never played a poor game. At the tournament at Smith College, the first ever for Union Field Hockey, we made an outstanding first impression. In giving the University of Vermont, a top seed in our division, a tough and close game, we established ourselves in the eyes of those teams who didn't know us as a sound; strong team with aggressiveness, high skill level, and a strong desire to win. This impression c}lme only through the dedication, desire, and,· hard work by all of us. Yet we can't forget that sinee field hockey is a team sport we wouldn't have had such a successful season jf we all didn't get along so well. Marty The Whiskey Sour Whiz was another reason for our success. Thanks, Mat>ty, for all of the effort, tir.1e, Q.'edlcation,, headaches, and Gelusil you put in for us. We all appreciate and respect you for what you have tavght us, for icing To the Editors: My- ·seasqn was filled with laughter, good times, and en· joyment not because I love the sp.ort and we had a winning season, but because of the friends l made while playing. In the end, this is what is im· portant. Thanks . . . Scrappy, Ellen, Crazy Jane, Buthaina, Debbie D., Deb. S., Nancy (K3J, Mona Newton-John, Wendy, Lisa r you little freshman), Gretchen, Michelle, Astro and all of the Jetsons ... it certainly was \cosmic.\ Sincerely, Judy More Ice_ Follies Dear Editors: Have we not learned from our past mistakes? I speak specifically of Urtion's ~latest endeavor, the research into and construction of a bobsled and team to go with it. Are we bling to our past hockey nightmaJ;.e? Sure, big time athletics is en~ joyable and an interest to all, but surely we are here for more than to merely satisfy our outside wants for enjoyment. We are here to expand the great gift of kilowledge and wisdom we have been endowed with, which Union can so rightly do. Do so through academics, not athletics. Shall we ·.pour money into a venture involving athletics and 11tand idly by while our academic structure crumhles? No, we cannot 1 · I a~k you all to unite once againe against the terrible doom this athfetic publicity will bring onto all of Union College. We must do so, and as a start, we must ask for ttre resignation of the president if he will not stop this nonsense now. President Auburn, end this now or the cries will be heard, \Auburn Resign! \ .Academically yours, Peter T. Delahunt 86805 Dear Jean: c~o Concordiensis Both B6805 .and I are grateful that you ·do not stereotype computers, and will be happy to supply some details. As far as geneology is con- cerned, first Union had 1620, then 415, then S700 and now 6805; so 6805 is clearly in the fourth generation. 5700 was obviously female since she conceived and brought forth 6600. However, the sex of new computers, like that ·of young kittens, is very difficult to det€rmine. Since 6805 lives in a glass room it was much too embarrassed to Jet me check carefully. You asked about . vital statistics. Well, 6805 is con- siderably bigger than a breadbox, and its speed is almost as fast as thought. (For more detailed information you might wish to consult the book from Burroughs Corporation which describes 6805 and its siblings. ) . If you would like to meet 6805, please come down to the lab; I would be delighted to introduce you. ' Thoughtfully, David G. Hannay Associate Professor · Computer Science Our PREPARE FOR: 40th] MCAT • OAT • LSAT • GMAT '---'v •• ,, GRE • OCAT • VAT • SAT Flexible Programs & Hours fl'bere IS a differen~e!!! Albany Center ~~-H 163 Delaware Ave. .,. . N. · Delmar \\ . ( EDUCATIONAL CENTER phone 518) 439-8146 TEST PREPARATION SPECIALISTS SINCE 1938 Outside N.Y. Stale Only CALL TOLL FREE: 800·223·1782 Centers In Maior US Cities Toronto, Puerto Rico and Lugaflo, Switzerland NCAA SOCCER! BUS for Cortland-Union Soccer Game Sat. Nov. 18, 1978 Game lime 1:00 P.M. LEAVING Alumni Gym 8:00 A.M. Sat., Nov. 18 BUS CHARGE $5/person round trip SIGN-UP reservations must be made and $5 fare paid by noon Friday, November 17 at Athletic Departp1ent Office in Alumni Gym P .5. Game ticket prices at Cortland are $2 Adults $1 Students with I.D. $1 Children 12 and under SUPPORT THE UNION SOCCER TEAM! Please Write Dear Editor: My name is Ronald Finkelstein and I am presently incarcerated in Green Haven State Prison for possession of cocaine. This being my first off ~nse, the tension and l<lneliness of prison life has taJted my control to the limit. r wish to correspond . witli anyone willing to writ€ and ·h~lp ease a troubled spirit. Thank you, Ronald Finkelstein Green Haven State Prison Stormville, New York 12582 No. 7&-A-1166 Parole Dear Students: I\m an inmate at Attica Correctional Facility. I at- tended college in Rochester, New York, and after a party on€ night, I broke into a bar and opened it for husiness. ·N' t:edless to say I was drunk at the time. I refused probation l>Eeause I felt it was not a bur-glary'. 1 did not steal anything, and even the owner of the bar testified I had in fact made a profit for him. Well, I was given up to four years in prison for this act and have completed all but. seven months of my sentence. I'm due to be released May 24 because of good behavior allowances and have found out I will have to do six months under parole supervision. This means I can be violated and sent back here to finish up the six months if I so much as jay-walk, and I'm not exaggerating! I plan to live in Webster, New York, which is located just outside of Rochester·: and have found the parole system can even dictate where you'll live. I've learned quite a lot about life, or should I say existence, in here and have come to the conclusion, if a person has love within himself, no amount of hate can alter his basic feelings. . I have witnessed cruelty beyond your comprehension, yet I find the love I held when I first entered this establishm€nt is still within my being. I'm one of the lucky ones. Since I'm a little afraid now ccncerning people's reactions, I would like w get some honest 1 0pinions and ideas from my generation. . Do you think I should be honest and tell people where Pve he~m, or not? Sincerely yours, Alfred John Gremillion CATALOG of COLLEGIATE RESEARCH Over 10.000 ltsttngs! All subjects. Send NOW fo.r this FREE catalog. !offer e)(p1res Dec 31. 1978! Send to: COLLEGIATE RESEARCH P.O. Box 84396. Los Angeles. CA. 90073 TRAIN WITH THE PROS Use the same NAUTILUS traing machines used byplaye.rsinthe N.F.L., N.B.A. and the N.H.L. Whether preparing for your favorite sport or just seeking t~at well toned, healthy appearance, our facilit.ies are second to none. SCHE NAUTILUS FITNESS CENTER 120 S. Church St. Schenectady, N.Y. 377~6964 /' Bt~y Your Record at the Campus Storer: NEW ARRIVALS: 1. Van Morrison- WAVELENGTH 2.·Barbara Steisand- GREATEST HITS 3,- Nick Gilder - CITY NIGHTS 4.- John Palumbo ·INNOCENT BYSTANDER 5.- Rennaissance - NOVEL LA SUGGESTED BUYS: 1.- Aero:smlth- LIVE! 2.- Firefall· ELAN 3. Steely L:>an- GREATEST HITS 4. Foreigner- DOUBLE VISION 5.- Lynard Skyhard- FIRST AND.,. LAST [) J'SCO!!! 1.- A Taste of Hone.y- BOOGIE OOGIE OOGIE 2.- Village People- MACHO MAN

Page 6 OONOORDIFJNSIS~ November 16, 1918 Around Ca_mpu.s Ridings Who is it that takes care of all th ~ sports m1iforms for both the games and the practices'? Bob Ridings does. You may ha:ve also recognized, Bob as th~ D11tchman who fires off the cannon at the home football games. Bob has been working in the basement of Alumni Gym for tht past 28 years. ln all of this tir.1e, he says,.' 'The kids haven't changed.'; Bob explains his job as being better than a teacher or a coach, as he has the ,opportunity to work closely with the students, but doen't have to discipline them. He knows the names of ahnost every athlete in the school and says that at ()De time, when physical education was req11ired, he Bob Ridings knew the names of every student in the--entire school. By working closely with the · students, Bob easily discovers which students can take practical jokes and often avails himself the opportunity. Some of the practical jokes he has played are sewing the pant -legs ()f a uniform together before a match and lining a football player's jock with lambs wool. Bob was one of the first people nere to hire female Grant-in Aids. He says that generally he finds girls to be more reliable. Both the students who work . for him .and the athletes think very highly of Bob. One student said, \He's always full of spirit. and is a great influence to the teams.\ \He's our best .fan,\ said another, \Bob as described by one student, \is clearly one of the . friendliest and best loved campus employees and his recorl;i certainly shQWS it.\ Bob explains, \I get the best years of your lives, And with that he asks why end a great season. Glee Club The Union College Men's Glee Club and the Smith College Glee Club will perform Bach's \Magnificat in D Major\ with the Smith College Chamber Orchestra on Saturday, November18,at8:30 p.m. in the Memorial Chapel of Union College. General admission is $2.00, $1.00 for faculty an~ staff, and free to st11dents and senior citizens. Iva Dee Hiatt of Smith College will conduct the Glee Clubs and Orchestra with soloists Gretchen _ D' Armand, soprano; Carolyn Mohn, mezzo- soprano; Pamela Gore, alto; Jon Humphrey. tenor; and John D 'Armand, bass. Included in the program is the Smith College Orchestra in performances of Beethoven's \Overture to Coriolan, Op. 62\ with Lisa Handford '79 con- ducting and Haydn's \Sym- phony No. 104 in D ('London'}\ under the dire.ction of Donald Wheelock, Union ~62. The program is identical to a concert performed last Sunday evening, November 12, in John M. Greene .Hall at Sinith College, Northampton, Massachusetts. It was the Union Glee Club's first off- campus performance of this season, and the group will next .sing a \ Christmas Vespers\ concert with the-- Skidmore Coll~ge Glee Club in Saratoga on Friday, December 1. · The Union College Men's Glee. Club wishes to thank the Smith College Gle.e Club for _making last weekend's trip a most enjoyable one. Their hospitality is commensurate with their great musical ability, and it is hoped that a long tradition of exchange concerts betwe~n the two groups has been initiated. Philo. lntro. This winter and spring terms the philosophy department will again be 'offering an unusual course, An. Advanced ·Introcludion to Philosophy. The course consists of a series· of Friday afterJ}oon seminars given bi-weekly overtwo terms by eminent philosophers who present soine of their recent work.' Students participate in the seminars and in post-seminar discussions. Grades are based u()On three papers written under the direction of a member of the Union philosophy department. Students must registerforthe course in both winter and spring terms if they are to receive (one) course credit. Among the philosophers presenting papers-in the winter term are Prof. John Ladd of Brown University, who will be talking on ''Rights and Responsibilities,\ Professor Larry· Thomas of Harvard University, who will be presenting a paper on \Sexism and Racism,\ and Professor William Foukes of Hobart and William Smith Colleges who will give a· paper entitled \Phil(lsophical Perspectives in Contemporary Film Criticism: Phenomenology, Semiotics and Marxism.'' Other philosophers who have accepted an _invitation to par- ticipate in the series are Tom Beauchamp, Kennedy Institute and Georgetown University; Roderick Chi~hom, Brown · University; Arthur Danto, Columbia,; William Earle, ~orthwestern; Jaegwon Kim, Michigan; Paul LeClerc, Union; Joe Margolis, Temple; and Richard Popkin, Washington University, St. ·Louis. _ _ For further infonnation about the course contact philosophy. Prof. Robert B. Baker. Pres. S,earch Efforts to designate a per- manent president of Union College are moving along in Classic bureaucratic fashion: sluggishly yet purposefully. The process is being handled · by two selection committees, one based locally and another in New York City. Tbe primary functions of the locaLselection committee are to screen the applications of prospective candidates and to forward acceptable prospe~ts to the New York City committee.·· In turn, the New York \City selection committee reviews these candidates and, in con- junction with the local com- mittee, arranges dates for campus visfts by desirable candidates. The local committee is reported by its chairman, Provost C. William Huntley, as recently having forwarded two names to the selection com- . mittee for consideration. The acceptability of these ap· plicants will be determined when that group convenes in · New York City on Dec. 6. The naming of a permanent president .is nat yet in sight, however. Moreover. when the selection process culminates in a final decision, it will take time for the new president to establish residence in Schenectady. Heeding these factors, Provost Huntley speculates that Union will not have a per- manent . president ''until this summer\ at the earliest. Ad Hoc This article is intended to serve as a report on the progress of the four ad hoc committees established by the office of the Chairman of the Board -of Trustees to study specific recommendations made by the Hftzzard Com- mittee. As reported in the Oct. 26 issue of Concordiensis, the four . committees,j will study hlem- . . bersh,ip and structure of the ·. Board, governance, admissions policy and subscription- plans · . for the endowment fund. · Presently, according to Student Trustee Brien O'Toole, these committees are being staffed. Specific figures con- cerning the composition and the · number of people to serve on . each committee have not yet been formulated. Chairpersons for · the ·. governance and admissions · committees h-ave been ap- . pointed· and are, resepctively board members; Arnold I. Burns and John Davis. The governance com:tnittee · will examine the administration and its relationship to the Board · of Trustees, whUe the ad- missions committee, on which . Brien wil.l serve, will study and compare \the admissions ' policies .of· various schools considered to be similar to • Union, using its findings to strengthen and revise present admissions policies here. -In closing, Brien commented that, \the committees have not as of yet been fully staffed and so the information supplied is . preliminary and subject to change.\ ·co:mm: •. N:ew's The Security Committee has begun an extensive study to determine long-range security needs, which will be used as a framework to formulate security policy. · . · One portion of the study Will · be devoted to examining prevailing community attitudes . towards security. At presen:t, . the committee is drafting a questionnaire and examining · statistical techniques which will then aid them in this task. A ' second part of the in\ vestigation will examine the present and future respon- sibilities of the security department in relation to the needs· of the conunwlity. The committee will hold meetings with various communtiy · leaders in an attempt to acM- · curately assess the com- munity's requirements. The committee has invited Direttor of Security, Clifford Wood, and Dean of Students, Robert H. Kellett, to speak on this topic at their next meeting, Fdday, at 2:30 in Milano Lounge. SocialConimittee The Social Committee is holding. an open meeting this Thursday, November 16th at 7 p.m, in the Student Activities Lounge.. Topics of discussion will include plans for Winter Carnival and a discussion of other tentaUve plans for the Winter term. AU interested are 'invited to attend and the committee Welcomes any ideas. Planning and Priorities Faculty and staff eorn- .pensation was the major topic of discussion when the Planning and Priorities committee met . for its weekly session. George . · Richards, Personnel Djrector and the Committee on Faculty presented their side to the Committee on this issue. The Committee is currently in the .process of deciding what monies .are needed · for the faculty and staffcompensation budget. Final decision · by the Committee will rtot be com- pleted until the Committee receives a report ·from the C~binet. _This report is -now being finalized and will be the . subject of discussion at the next ·-meeting of the Committe~. · .. Galway Jan1es Galway~ the Irish flutist Who has wort critical acclaim and an -enormous following in northern Europe, .will perfoi:m with the New Itish · Chamber 01·chestra ·in Schenectady at 8:30 p.m. · Saturday, Nov. 25, at Memorial Chapel. The Thanksgiving weekend N.Y. Yo,ut,h tqe Northeastern New York Youth Orchestra has announced that. ~uditions for violas, bass, harp, English . horn,, bass clarinet (A_and B flat), double bassoon and piccolo will be held Saturday, Dec. 9 in room 202 of the Arts Building. Any musician in high school or college living within a 100- mile radius of Schenectady is eligi·ble to audition for the youth orchestra. -Musicians can mak,e. ap- pointments by contacting Irma Hamilton, in the arts depart- ment, at 370-6201.. The e~tra instrumentalists will be needed fortheyouth orchestra's second concert on March 11, in Mahler's <~Kindettotenlieder. ,;. The orchestra'·s first concert .o'f the :season will be Sunday,_, Jan. 7 at ~· p.m. at Memorial Chapel. Human ·s,ubiecit In New York State, in 1964, the ~loan-Kettering Institute decided one of its doctors acted unethically when he gave cancer implants to 2000 . postoperative patients without their knowledge or consent. Later, thse patients' records were destroyed. A similar experiment was tried on in- mates of an Ohio prison by the same doctor. A decade later, men in this prison . showed an abnormally high rate of cancer. This doctor was later made vice president of the American Cancer Society. In recent years, there has . been public outcry against such activities. Experiments such as these prompted' a law passed in September 1975... protecting human experiment subjects. Under New York State law, any institution conducting experiniE:mts with human beings n:ilist have such experiments approved by a five-person review committee. \lihis review· board's prin- ciples ·at1d policies m~st, in James Galway turn. be approved 'by the New concert is the third in this York State Commission of season's ''International Health. Finally, New York State Festival of Chamber Music,\ must comply with federal sponsored by Union and the Health; Education and Welfare Schenectady Museum. Ticket~ standards. . are $5 to the general public, $3 If experiments are not judged . to students and free with a ' acceptable,. the ins:tittitiorf will Union LD. They are available in .receive no state or federal advance ftom-the Schenectady funding. _ _ Museum or at the door the night In: accordance with the law, of the concert, Union 'has established a Human Advance tickets for.: Union R-esearch R.eview Committee. students will be available free Its members include at the Student Activities Office Professors Robert B. Baker, starting Monday, Nov. 20. Susan D. Britain, J.T. Gajjar, In the past few years, Galway · · - faui M. Johnson, and Marie- has achieved something akin to · Loufse Leder.Schmidt, as well \.superstar\ status-so ,much so as William Brown M.D. of Ellis that bis face adorns T-shirts-in Hospital. Great Britain, where over 75,000 In addition, a student com~ of his records Were sold~in one mittee to approve research will year. Equally at home with the be formed. \classical'' and popular ''en- As of winter term, any in· core\ repertoire, the Belfast dividual desiring to doresearch native has recorded John on human subjects must Denver's \Annie's Song\ as, complete a statement of intent well as ·Mozart and. Bach. His to be approved by these com- New York City concerts a few mittees. Should, the project weeks ago were prefaced by an involve any risk•to the subject,. appearance on:the \Dick Cavett its participants must be in~ Show.\ fonned, and a voluntary consent ''Even amid · the most fonn he .completed by each. torrential cascades of notest Uni.on has no history of -one London critic wrote, \he unethical experiments and does presumably .takes breath, but not· expect any_ complications. with such wellMconcealed art Few of the projects attempted that you suspect a div~ne falHntothe \rislt\ category and ' _dispensation fr9m such or~ it is not the committee's intent dinary physical neceSsities.'' to hold up research._ Tl 'I -It anoth in th• book•] there aU of NoW\ He fa mil same Voice ·a wa-r Gazet corne was. He camp new l fresh• with fresh1 He.l this r what behin• chee~ myste friend DoE): Taylo1 atmos Mayb Does they t He'c llecau: the co He found began tonighl eyes p: the se any se C'rn thing! elsewr sitting win do' imagil her. l eyes, behinc \Th could himse and Si she co stare as.shol SoU mech< readiJJ - 12\ c 16\ c 12\ D 16\ il 12\ w 16\ w ADDI1

O@NOORDIENSlS~ November 1-6, 1918 Page 7 lture I . The- Rendezvous by KILGORE TROUT ..It wa$ '\Shaping up to be another boring nigltt{>fstudying in the library. H\E lugged his book-liiden backpaek through the reference section,. .but found all of his favorite desks taken. Now where? Try tnernezzanine. He climbed the aU-too- familiar stairs, and found the same familiar faces r•eading the Voice, Holfing .Stone, and. the ·a wa-rd-winning Schenectady Gazet~e. As he turned the corner to find a desk,. there she was. He had noticed her around campus manytimesthis year-a new fa.ce, but obviously not a freshman.- She c.arried herself with more confid:ence than a freshman would. He .had become intrigued with this new face, and wonaered what kind of a person . was behind the laughing smilE!, high cheekbones and dark, mysterious eyes .. Would she be friendlv.? Do~s: she· -listen tQ ._. James Taylor, or does .she IJOllUte the atmosphere with ttle Bee Gees? Maybe she's into the Dead? Does she like ~pples~:maybe they had that in conun\On·? He d· probably nev--er know, because there's no way he had the eo~rage to meet her. He. proceeded 011 through, found a · desk, sat down and began r-eading. It went slowly tonight-slower than usual. H~s eyes passed over tlte words, bq.t the sentences weren'~ making any sense. C'mon, brain, d() y<>ur study thing!. His tho.llgllts wete elsewhel'e, thouglr-they were sitting with that gir-l by the window. ln.his mind\s eye he imagined hiirtself ~Lki.ng with her. He was looking mto her eyes, discovering vihat lay behind them. \That would be cool if you could pull it off,•• 11~ said to himself. \Just kind of walk over and say 'hi.' Wb~t's the worst she could do to you? She c-ould stare right tthtough ~ou, · you as.shole •. Forge.t itL\ . Solie readsomeniore. Andhe mechanically took n().tes on his reading.. And, after- a while, he MEtW 12\ C~eest. Piua .......... ~ ....... 52:75 16\ Cheese P·i:izo ................... $4;(10 12\ De!uil!!' Combo ......... -........ $4.55 16\ Deluxe Com~ ................. $6.~0 12\ Wo.rles·Pizza ........... - ....... SS • .fS 16\ WorhPitza .................... S7.60 ADDITIONAL iTEMS · • ·Faor 12 .. · - 45c . • ·Faor 16'' · • 6tlc Sou•agt Onions Green Pepper• Pepptror>i Mushroom• ··Ground Seol Ham 'l'hick Cruae found that he couldn't remember a word that he'd just read. \O.K. get psyched,..'' he told himself. \You're gonrta do it.'' He stayed glued to his desk for another 10 rninut~s. though, convincing himself that he wouldn'.t iook like a fool. Whenhe.finally got up to walk over to her he still wasn't convinced, and his heart was beating quicker now, too. He reached the .aisle where she sat facing the window, with her feet lip on the .radiator. She was reading. He walked down the aisle towilrd her, and caught her reflection in the window. As he approached, she looked up and noticed his reflection, too, but she didn't turn aroWld. At last he reached her seat, looked at Ure back of her head, N and blurted out, \Hi.\ £ .She turned around, _ana iB surprised· him with a smile. As 11 she met his gaze, those dark, 2 · , · ... beautiful eyes melted his hard- f.(.:,.·' won courage into a bowl of soft, · . . . _Heavenly-hash ice cream. Not just a lot of hot air, this balloon floated was set aloft as part of the activities to commemorate the company's 100. years of operation. He stood there, helpl_ess, groping for something to say. But he'd don·e it. over the ca.rnpus last Friday morning. Em- blazoned with the logo of General Electric, which is he·adquartered Jn Schenectady, it IDOL NeWs: Ginsberg To Visit by ANDREA BOWERS The Idol literary magazine, thanks to contributions from the Speaker's Foturp, Arts and Lectures Committee, and the English, Philosophy, and Arts departments, will be sponsoring the first of its many-anticipated poetr·y readings on November 30th. As a-provocative start, visiting poet Allen Ginsberg will spend a day on the Union ca11].pus. Ginsberg will lead a lecture and discussion session on Oriental' Philosophy at 9:30 A.M. in Strauss Lounge and all interested persons are -en- couraged to come. Iri the af- ternoon, from-2:00 to 4:.Jl0, he wiH conduct an informal writing workshop . for all interested· readers and··writers Whkh will also be field in Strauss Lounge. To -cihna~ his stay at Union, Ginsberg~ Will read from his works at 8:30 in the Old' Chapel. Allen Ginsberg's identity as·. poet surfaced in the late fifties and sixties when he became associated with the San Francisco Renaissance\ or Beat Poets along with Gary Snyder and Philip Whalen. Duril)g this period Ginsberg became involved in Mantra chanting and pr-acticing with Hare Krisna Mahamantra and Buddhist Prajnaparamita Sutra. - · Ginsberg's further in- volverne~ i:n conscious-altering experimentation led to his study ·Of the poetic effects of LSD and -peyote. Two sections of \Howl\ 1 ''Howl partii 1955 and Whal~s Visitation 1967 l were written under the influence . of these drugs. Ginsberg's published wr,itings have e~ppeared ·in; 'Yllgen, Floating Bear Mifileo, Kltlcber, Bjg Table, City Lights, Journal \C\, Evergreen Review, Atlantic Monthly, Life, FRE'E · DELIVERY WITIIfN: OUR· DEliVERY AREA (30 minute service) CAL.L I 3.82-383;8 Also 10 minute take out - Counter Service ·OPEN· DAILY ,---------------·-::-=· .. ---------, i 50c I I 1 r OFF-~ t:~ ! ANY I.IRGE PIZZA I ~ I' ~ I l cotpotl per .pm. > I . . ~ I Good now thru 4 p.m. . 1 a.m. Fri. & ·Sat;. 4 p.m.- 2a.m. I . . . 1 Nov. 19, 1978 ~-------------------~--------- New Yorker, Look and t;nderground Press Syndicate. Ginsberg's search for alternative perspectives and experi~nces was a powerful influence on the \revival of the 60's.\ In 1978 we must look at Allen Ginsberg as not only a force in the arts conmmnity of today, but also as an influential Dilettma and cogent force from the recent past. It is important to value those energies in our environment that served as ·stimulants of change and Allen Ginsberg is one of these. We hope to see you all at one or all of these activities on Nov. 30. Just wanting to be close, to touch you, feel the warmth between us. Not wanting to risk rejection, or morning's harsh judgement But knowing inside, there's no life without risk, and morning comes everyday. -V.J.E. Please submit all poems for Fine Lines to Box 1388, Jan De Deka . Fine Lines Editor. {Poems.can be anonymous if you want.) '•' • #4i¥ Whodpee! November Birthdayers celebrate.

'·· Page 8 OONOORDIENSIS, Novcmbf!.!> 16, 1978 clasaifie{)s ' ' Peter Shor,. a ~ormer Union student, will be available on Friday, Nov. 17, 10:00 a.m.-12 noon, in SS 110, to discuss Ve.rmont Law School with in- terested pre-law students. .All First Class mail will be put in your mailbox.. MC ... Natalie Barandes. Tickets ,on sale at 7:30 in the front hall of Carnegie. No show next week- :rhanksgiving .. The week after ThankSgiving, the Cabaret will be held on Wed· nesday Night, 11-29-The Harold · ·. didn't know how to answer a BULLETIN BOARD CORRECTIONS Final Fall Examination Schedule . The Mailroom will accept and hold U.P.S. and Parcel Post packages. · . tricky question, come join us , . Thursday, November 30 in • · Strauss Lounge. Sponsored by . Union's six engineering (corrections in bold) . . Monday, December 4, 9:00- :11:00 a.m.-German to .... Basic . German I,.Sec. 1-Kellenter-HU -117 . : Tuesday, December 5, 9~11 a.m.-French, 132-Masterworks The visit of the Franklin Pierce Law Center represen- tative scheduled for Nov. 22 has been postponed until Wed- nesday, November 29_, 9:30 a.m.-12:00 noon, in the Phi Beta Kappa R.oorn, Library. ·of French Literature-Thomas- Bachelor of Arts Candidates: HU014. ADD Political Science What can you do with a 165-Urban Politics-Thompson- Bachelor of Arts degree? Are HU 016. you confused or frustrated by Thursday, December 7, 9-11 your attempts to plan or find a a.m.-~ADD Political Science career? If so, come listen and 183--Women and Politics-- participate as 6 recent Union Thompson-SS115. Mathematics graduates (with B.A. degrees) · 10-Calculus 1, Sec. 6-8tone-.HU · · discuss their current jobs and .,115. Mathematics 30--0rdinary the openings available for Differential Equations, Sec. 2- · students majoring in the liberal Rice-BH 201. arts. Thursday, December 7, 2-4 The discussion is open to p.m.--Economics 11--Eleme- · everyone. Come to the Music ntary Economics, Sec. 2-- Room on the main floor of the Cullinan-SS 115. Statistics 202- ·. Library on Monday, November ·statistical Methods, See. 51- 20 at 4:00 p.m. Refreshments MacFarland .... BH 108. will be served. Notes from the Placement Office: Have you considered careers in government? Are you interested in summer jobs . ·and internships in Washington and Albany? The office of PCR, . ·in conjunction with the Political · Science Department, is plan- . ning an informational session · on government employment. The purpose of the program is to expose any major to the · variety of opportunities in both federal ·~md state governments. The speakers will be: Mr. George Dexter, Chief, . Federal Job Information Center · at Albany,. Ms. Onnolee Weatherup, Associate Staffing Services Representative, Dept.. of Civil Service at NYS. Please come to Hale House Lower Lounge at 3:30 p.m. on , Tuesday, November 28. FREE REFRESHMENTS. Attention Seniors: We will be signing up for the following companies on November 27 at 3:30 p.m.: -Weirton Steel Co., E.E.'s, M.E. 's, for Steel Management Training Program. Join the discussion and get a direction ! . N.Y. Times is NOW AVAILABLE through vending. machines in front of Carnegie and in the Library e-n- tranceway. They will be sold right through finals week! N.Y. Times orders ~ow being taken f.or winter term. Only $18 for 7 -day, to your door delivery. $10.80 for Sundays only. Send remittance with name, campus address, and phone to Dave Siegel,. Box 2243. Scholarship~ for Study in Madrid: Spring 1979: As the consequence of a very generous, ano~ymous, gift by a Spaniard interested in fur- thering Spanish-American relations, Academic Year Abroad, Inc., is able to proffer 20 scholarships of 35,000 pesetas each (ap.prox. $500) to properly qualified applicants from U.S. colleges and universities for study at the Universidad de Madrid in the Spring Semester, 1979. Applicants, who must have studied Spanish but need not be SP,anish majors, should write, stating age, grade, college, and any scholarShips or grants currently being held, to: Magazines, periodicals · and graduate school catalogs, etc., . will be held for a general pickup in the Package Room when school resumes. Look for a notice in the Concordy and in your dormitory indicating the date and time of the pickup. Newspapers, including the Wall Street Journal and Times Union, will be discarded as well as all bulk mail. The Housing Office will not accept: Certified, Registered, Special Delivery mail, C.O.D. ··packages. If you have been expecting urgent mail that nas not arrived a few days before you are ready to leave for Winter brPak, please come to the Housing Office. Schaffer Libr,ary hours during Thanksgiving Recess: Wed., Nov. 22-8:30 a.m.-5 p.m. , Thurs., Nov. 23-Closed Fri., Nov. 24 .... Closed Sat., Nov. 25--Ciosed Sun., Nov. 26-6-11 p~m. Mon., Nov. 27-Regular hours resumed The Night Study will be open during this entire period. Are you stuck at Union for Thanksgiving. vacation? Will you be missing mom's horne- cooked turk~y and pumpkin pie? Well, if your answers to these two questions are \yes\ and if you're interested in having Thanksgiving dinner with the family of a Union fa~ulty, ,administration or .staff member, then .please call Joe Zo1ner at 370-6061 and leave . your name and number. We'll do our best to put you in touch with a family for Thanks·giving dinner and hopefully make your vacation a bit more enjoyable. . w CAMPUS CAlENDAR CABARET THIS WEEK ... -Turner Construction, Civil Engineers for Construction Management. Academic Year Abroad , - Spanish Scholarship Com- Due to circumstances beyond --Heat Extractor Corp., I.E.'s, M.E.'s, for energy conservation field. -Dravo Corp., C.E.'s, E.E.'s, and M.E.'s for Production . Engineering; Field · Con- struction, and Design mlttee our control, there will be one P.O. Box 50 · performance atthe Cabaret this New Paltz, NY 12561 week-at 11:00. The acts will be:. JEFF STERLING . . . The College will not forward magician mail during Winter break, ef- ~~dOF. RUDY NYDDEGGER · Pinter -~-ketches directed by Gary Glauber. · · • .' Barnard Vonnegut from SUNY's Dept. of Atmospheric Sciences will .give a talk on Thursday, Nov. 16 at 4:30 in Steinmetz 106. The talk is titled, Thunderstorm Electricity,. and refreshments will be served at 4:00. This tMk will deal with the · phenomenon of lig)ltning,. which has baffled scientists and in- trigued people for years. Please contact David Ward if any pl'oblems: 382-8673. ' Thanksgiving Food Drive: Newman Campus Ministry-is rmning their annual food drive· for the poor through Nov:ember 1 T. Place food donations in boxes located on dorm floors or in. the Student Activities OfHce. Manetary contributions are also being accepted. /Plel;,lse have your d<mations in by the 17th. Thank. you. Dr. Marvin M. Phaup, an economist in the Fi·scal Analysis Division of the Congression&l Budget Office, will speak on \Economic and Political Aspects of the Congressional . Budgeting Process,'' at 8:30p.m.~ Monday, November 20 in SS016. _ ·Dr. Phaup formerly taught at the University of Lancaster, Case Western, and Roanoke-· College and .was Senior Econotnist at the Cleveland Federal Reserve Bank. His address will focus on political constraints and economic problems in .the budgeting process and explore how these factors have in- fluenced the successes and difficulties of fiscal policy. A question and answer period will follow. The College community is cordially invited to attend this address, sponsored by the board of visitors of the Economics Department. Dr: Lazar Pisttak-member of the former Menshevick Party..State Dept: Consultant on the Soviet Onion--active . member -~ Amnesty Inter- national-eyewitness to the-1905, March 1917, and Oct. 1917 Russian Revolutions--will speak in.SS 113, Monday; Nov. 20 at 11:30. All are welcome. Dr. Pistr~k is being sponsored by the Hts\()ry Department. Engineering. fective December 9th, Satur- day. · · · folk music. - The Philosophy Department r-....,;,_....., _________ -.:~~~~~~~--------------- ... is pleased to announce that NEWS FROM P.C.R. Professor Lynne Baker of . ' Middlebury College will be BROW_N UN.IVERSITY ·A representative from Brown Un!versity wil.l be on campus qn Nbvember 28 ·· giving. a ta!k, Can Computers from 3.00-5.00 P.M. to talk to students who are interested m \Masters of Arts in Teaching Progr·a·m\ · A t? t 4 30 · H · · · Slgn\ups will be In the Placement Office at any time. · · c · a : p.m. m umamties 9 SUM E . 213 on November 29, 1978, as . 1 79 M R EMPLOYMENT PROGRAM (U.S. Civil Service Commission).: The Federal 1979 . part of the Friday Afternoon g~:rc~.er Employment Program opens November 15, 1978. Pick up your applications in the Pla~::ement Philosophy Seminars. Informal' INTERNSHIPS: ~ discussion and refreshments OPERATION CROSSROADS AFRICA, INC.: Summer Work-Study in Africa. Prospects involve art, following in the Htimanities archeology, ethno-muslcology, agricultural development, tutoring, public health, and journalism, etc. Faculty Lounge.\ IAE STE-US, Inc. ( lnternationil!l Association for the Exchange Students for Technical Experience). On- the-Job tralng abroad for students in Engineering, Arch i·tecture Agriculture Mathematics and the Sciences.. . ' , _ , 1979 National Wildlife Federation'.s Conservation Internship .' CMOI GME: (Council for Opporf.unity in Graduate.Management Education:) Cogme grants Fellowships to · nority students on a .competitive f:lasls. AFFIRMATIVE ACTION REGISTER: Listing of job opportcrtffHes for females, minorit.y and han· dlcapped candidates. SMITH COLLEGE SUMMER INTERN-T.EA.CHING PROGRAM: Program fQr Libera_! Arts College graduates who are preparing for a career m elementary, or secondary schpot teaching. Credits may be applied to work in M.A.T. degree. Ph.D s:ruDY FOR MINORITY STUDENTS· . Princeton University. NEW YORK PUBLIC INTEREST GROUP, )Nc.~ Offers internships i·n Health Care, Radio Cable Television and Newspaper, etc. - • VANDERBUILT UNIVERSITY~ Owen GradLJate School of Management Offers the M.B.A. Scholarship Program. · DIGITAL EQUIPMENT CORPORATION: Is looking for all maiors for positions In Sales, Design, Programming, Technical writing, etc. Interested students shoold contact Prof. Hannay, Stelnmett Hall Room 205, Phone 6273). · · ' i Are you an engineering or science major, looking for a job, but not sure how to write a r-esume? Are you uptight about interviewing, or want to talk to · someone about some tricky qu·estiolls or sticky sittyJtions you've encountered in an in-. terview? · Then ,eome to the Resume Writing and Inter- viewing Workshop on Thursday, November 30 at 4 :30 in Strauss Lounge.. Betty Goodman from the Placement Office will be there to answer questions and go over What should be included in a \technical\ reswne. So if you ;~re nervo~ about in- terviews, or upset that vou societie.s .... ASME, ASCE, IEEE, SWE, Tau Beta Pi and Eta • Kappa Nu. The Union College Cof., fee~(mse will present Walt Atkison and the Sun Mountain Fiddler on Friday, Dece~nber 1 · at 8:30 p.m .. in the Old Chapel. · Now we know that this is very .early notice, nut we don't want you to miss this fantastic show, . so save the date now (also, this • is the last jssue of the paper this · term, so . . . ) .. -You may not know Walt (who hails from HQchester, NY) but if yo1:eve ever heard Pete .Sears perform at either Coffeehouse or. Cabaret,. you've heard several · ·of Walt's songs-\Cha Cha,. Cha\ and ''The Bullfrog Song'' to name a couple, SG don't • forget....,Friday, December 1 at 8:30 p.m. for just $1:00-all the coffee and donuts you want plus great ~ntertainment. · OUTING CLUB. The D.O. C. is open to aH interested people. · Activities include: Backpacking Camping Day Hikes Technical Climbing Cave Exploring Canoeing Mountaineering Cross-Country Skiing Snowshoeing Bicycle Trips Cabin Trips . .. and more!! If you're ·interested in any of the above, get involved! It will never be cheaper to try your hand at some of these outdoor sports. If you've never done it I'• ~ - ' we mv1te you to learn. If you're an expert, we intive you to join us, provide instruction, lead trips, and share your favorite sport.· 1 Everyone is welcome to at- tend o~r weekly meetings held on Tuesday nites at 7:30 in Hale House Lower Lounge. For more information come to a me~ting or call: Gordon 374..0797, Carl 382-8973, ot Mrs. Marra, Student Activities; RIDE BO.ARD · . Ride needed to Long Isl~tl or · Connecticut Friday,. Nov. 17. Call Dori at 370;6527. Ride needed to Westchester for Thanksgiving. Leaving Nov. 22 and returning Nov. 28. Please call Evelyn at 370-6584. , · · HELP WANTED The Muscular Dystrophy Association is looking for student volunteers to assist in sor~ing . mailings of the Association by zip code. Help if3 needed iirlmediately with this project. If interested call Mike Plath at 459-2500. 1 The Friendly Visitor Program, wh,ich provides regular weekly visits to the homebound elderly and disabled, is in need of additional volunteers in Schen·ectady County. Men and women in- terested in this very . special support program should. attend an informational meeting to be held on Thursday-, Dec. 7, 4-6 p.m. at the Senior Citizens Center, 101 Nott Terrace Schenectady. Volunteer~ currently participating in the program will share their e~­ periences and a local • . .pr lor ffi4 ._me • , I ja Tl ·n ..aT ye P< · ha TI le1 1 ag, 1 to . COl I anc 1\ I He• per ,J SuE J we« E ne:x Mo Fn all H eve mu B goo rea H doe T Sun H the p ferr H ~ho and Di if's yest Li sno' Fri~ M keet grot A~ is aJ FJ

a US in by Et<.t•· tain er 1 pel.. · this • this· not or ng'' • at the plus, ,IS ple. of our it, at- ore · nd. dy in- be OONOORDIENSIS,. Novembe'l' 1'6, 1978 Page 9 . .professional will talk. about loneliness-its cause, effect and . ways to deal with it Refresh• ments:... will ·be provided. For . more infor.mation call 372-3395. I LOST. LOST: A dark blue down jacket. Lost -at Cabaret last . Thursday .. If found., please call, · Doug, 382-6923. ··PERSONALS WON'T BE PRlNTE.i:J unlt!SS they are typed. . · · - Siste.rs Qf QB·- That Colt- and sparkle will descend upc>n your existence shortly. Wipe it off and keep on trucking. woman looks like a fine . 'Geek.-Js physics phun? prospect. What do you think? · • · · George...;Who is the Phantom Has Dining <;lub beporne : of the Lights? Murray. defunct? r hope r~ot. . -----· ~-----· ------ -~- ......... ____,~~---- .. ,___.... Max--What's your favorite Scrappy-Tourniquet,. right? · color? CQngratulaH()ns team!!! . socee:r ~--~~-----~~ Happy 18th Karen (Black ·• Crayola) Friday nite'! ! ! Chirr-F~e1 better soon so we Bar.ry--Happy 19th, Love can see that sweet and: inn'()cent · D.L.R. (?) smile once again. · {,isa-Did you get all those .· Terri-HAPPY BIRTHDAY!- ' Hans--Going for the Hat albums and,. you know, that .pen · Dav'e R. . Trick? (You already scored one yet? Jeff goal) qne hint--The igloo Terri--Happy Birthday and · building ruins your image. many more! -Con~ordy DR.•\I hate that Lynbrook Post Office! lhateit! I hate. it'! I · hate it!!\ · · ~ Wanted: One Economics Thesis-any subject...;Must be at · least 75 pages-Call 3704)1~5. Gwnp.-As·I command it! Bruce ami '·Lip-Moby has been catnapp_e.d. Sne will be- returned in exdt.al)ge for ten . carts of 9 Lives 'r11na 'n' Liver - supper. KD: Just try si!tging more time.-B.A.I>. one Baum--Great meal Saturday · night .... Jt was really great-so . Sue: It's only 25 more days, , was McD's..,..317V:? . · .. then ... Bruce-Nev.er sing in my car again. JS - { '· - . Rubin-! think the personals to Jill ·were good but you · .comfi1and it! Gull Happy Birthday Donna: SM and 2nd Floor West. D. Met· any good bushes lately? SM & K Russ: HH A Friend ' Happy Birthday Dana- Val, Linda and J en Dana--Can we a.t least buy you a cheap dinner at McDonalds? Peter-Congratulatioiu·-See you next year. Jen- You still ()We us some Ice cream from Steve's. . . . Fran ... I'm sorry, but t really · do hate Tweety. Ly ..,sa .. • will you ESAD! ! ! From Starsky Ted-Happy Birthday! You're : almost over the hill. Happy 18th John-she'll love the song-Write one .for us! Hey TROY-Let's see H we . can't bury our heads ii1 some bullshit this weekend·! B. Jim-Next time you will wear tbe ice cream! Red-Happy Birthday from the \Suities\ Thank:s for the cha-alk! Mare-H~ppy Birthday, Pal-- Love Kd2 To the Clan: we have folUld ' the following things around. the house; and were wondering if you could use any of them: a cardinalpuff, a pair of dimples, frogs legs, Tricky Terry, a conversation, pledge cream . rinse, drugs (?), five shots of . JD, Whips & chains, a fish, a dinner with 'Keith, innocence, a Trojan warrior, and a slow comfortable screw-from the Clan fap club . · Chuck-it's going to .stick! Ken M.-You spelt it wrong! Qupte o.fthe week: ''A banana a d~y will keep the doctor away.\ · · Kevin, Has arthritis set in yet, old man. Wild Bill,. Some like it hot, some like It cold (dead fish). Liz, your beauty can cJtarm the savage Giller monster. But, are you going to the party alone? Mom, You think we are • problem children? Wait till after the· party on Friday night .. · Don't be so Edgy. You'll get in somehow. Julie, Who's coming on Thursday? And on Friday, and Saturday, and Sunday. Maybe· even on Monday. K,. H. A, 'F, E & M- THANK . YOU, THANK YOU, THANK YOU, THANK YOU, THANK YOU. Love, Julie. J etsetters--12: 00 flight to Paris daily. For ticket in .. formation contact Pam V. Shit: It was good seeing you the other day! Friday · night treeclitn:bers, Ruth: Have you gotten under Enjoyed the show!!! · the umbrella yet? . Janet; Just' like taking showers?? Robin, When do you want tO\ start the labwork? I'm ready anytime you are. Michele--Have vacation!?! a great Bob-Thank you. It really means a lot to me. Peter--FANTASTIC News! I know you will have a great time-Jill Cherie and Missy-! can not believe the term is over so soon. Relayer: Please come home. Dimples: How did you get that name? D.R.-How are the camels lately? Trissie-.Maybe next year we'll ooth be in California. (San Francisco? )-·A Caltfornia Dreamer Kro-When are we going to get together? I nave to much to tell you! M & C-I'm sorry! Bob. . - . - . . . JNG-Hangin' there. You'll be hOme soon-JG. Soccer team-C.ongrats on a I can not wait to see you! · great win. Qo the same against . 3rd Flo~. Davidson North- you all may be pains in the - · but, I love you all, anyway. Happy Birthday, Steve (Fred Head, etc.) Now you have a personal. . Jay..-Excuse me~ Pam and Sue. J'eff-H:ave you done good this week? J & ·s & P & B Blackmail: For the price of next term's books we won't tell Mommy and Daddy about Fredonia and Katie!! Signed: all those·who know. , Have a , nice vacation everyone, ,c(nd don't eat too much turkey! ! __ Bru,ee-Hip bones- may be good but there's nothing like the real. thing-?' ' Hanz-Is the Pope Polish; doea a bear shit in the Nott. TP · Cast,-Bacon and eggs Sunday morning? Hanz-I can't believ.e you bit the hand that f~d you. Paul--Ben Gay and Fluf- fernutter? l:lanz-1 know what you. like; • ~hole Wheat. bread, fresh eggs and twinkies. So now you know who Milton Ken--Any sandwiches at Skidinore? ' Jim J.-Happy Eelate.d Bir- thday! · Happy- 18th, Marko! You're\' defiriitely the coolest. JS, Doc, .and the re,st ·of 2nd floor West. Mfudy B.\:\Are yo11 sealing out again? S and D CONTRIUUTE to the Thanksgiving Food. Drive. Help the poor. ·Sue.,..Don't eat all o:f the fudge.-D. -Phyllis-Nice pa11:ts huh? ' Maxlett--Dinner- better be good-The C.ripples (Physical and ... ) Aunt Sitch- Yes,.fuU body cast can ·be enjoya~le1 Scooty-Better lucknext·year- . ~one Who has beer~ there and back. - Becker-! look forwa~d to your participation in the 1980 Olympics. I bear .it's the Bus Driving event. Coh()es Chamber of Commerce. • Ft·eec;lman is! O'Toole-.:Rather than ex- pound upon the thoughts that . Did you know that in Tokyo • naturally effervesce durin~ our it's tomorrow while today Ws lengthy, obtrusive and rather yesterday here'? unimportant conversatiofls. I feel it is in the interest of all ta Lip--You don't have a merely ':postpone the an- snowball's chance in hell. ·A noun cement ef your eventual Friend. · fate until the next issue of this publication. Marabeth--Dot your m's and keep )!our wandering eyes to the ground! LYD AT'r.ENTION: Rayrnonda T. is allergic to Afrosheen. From now on oersonals Ferin:-Feast or Famine'? The boys in the copy r()<lm. · \ Gun-secret ballot on Weds. 8:30? Oh! Omnipotent BaUill! Clor:Y Cortland. Val-Great decision. It can't Donna, Happy Birthday, · Don't cut my head off . Jackie-Thanks.' for the ..... key. Mission ac~omplished. go wrong. Suzy Lightman-Adios Amigo- -! will definitely miss you-One of your partners in crime for 31.2 glorious years. BASICALLY BITCHIN'-- Sir Edginald-Hurry home, Karen you made it to your l8th. you're greatly missed--Love LQve, your Sweetmate. · always and always-Lady J. S.H.-Ha:ve a fantastic 18th! Love, E:S.A.D._ . . · Peta: \When are you gonna learn how to play KADIMA?\ . Gianna-....Let's call the firm greifer and Rosker. Alphabetically of course! (Yes, in spite of everything) · Tenny Weenie-When are you going to come out and play? Davidso11, skellar, etc. really aren't that far south. (From North that is!) Jacqueline-How are we going to live t()gether if I'm in Chicago and you're in Italy?-J.ullus . Muddy Waters--Your days are nUI1Jbered if y()U don't slow down-Felix and the Beast. 'Ian-Whatever you wear, it · should be green-tiers! ''Happy, Birthday Mare!- .. (The other Die-hard) AD Phi Kar: \Happy ~ Babes! \--I · Birthday M and S, What happened to the popcorn? .' . Karen, Mary, John--G:et psyched for tomorrow · night. \The girls\ Peta--I'm still waiting for my new gumballs-Mickey D: Good luck Saturday, \What can I say?\ On Thursday, Nov. 9, the . brothers of Alpha Delta Phi · treated the children of the Union College Day Care Center to'a Thanksgiving P~rty. - Ken Marks, a brother . at A.D.Phi, was in charge of the party. Ken, along with another brother. and the. fraternity's cook, Pauline Clark., spent three hours playing with the children and ;)serving _lunch. Everyone had ·a great ttme. According to Ken, they had an open~ended budget to serve lunch. \We gave them yogurt, pizza, which they loved to play with, and Ch()colate milk.\ The Thanksgiving party was just one of the many community events A.D.Phi plans to spm•- sor. They are hoping to donatr a table and some baset.:~ll equipment to community groups. 'rhe brothers also plan to work with area senior citizens. Ken says, \We are spreading the go()d wo1·k of Union College.\ Mohawk Mall - Schenectady - 370-9805

Page 10 OON_OOBDfFlNSIS, Noveml1er 16, tJ9\18 ...--Area Calendar Music j?ined by two other Cape Breton Scotland Ave., -Albany. For f1ddlers, JerrY- Holland and further information call 436- Thursday, November 16-- David !'dacissac. The concert' 73'11. Linda Jaffarian will give a will begin at 8 p.m. For further piano recital in the Julia information contact Andy Dance Howard Bush Memorial Center Sptlnce at 7654103. at Russell Sage today. The Saturday, November .25-- concert-begins at 8:~0 p.m. For Dizzy Gillespie will perform in further information call 270- cencert at Hudson High Schooi 2344. in Hudson, N.Y. The concert Fr-iday, November 17-Pi~nist will be held in the school's Pola Bayetel:nlan will offer an auditorium, and is to begin at e'ILening with Schubert at 8:30p.m. SUNYA's Perform.ing Arts Thursday, November 3~ln Center. The Center is located at SUNY A's Recital Hall, Gregory 1400 Washingt9n Ave. and will D. Hutchins will perform a begin at 8:00. For further in- Graduation Hecital to b~gin at S formation contact Maureen p.m. For -further information Salkin at 457-'8608. . call 457-8608. Sunday, November 19--In SUNY A's Heeital Hall a: Films Schubert Festival will begin at 12 noon. For mor.e information Frida- November 17--Did call 457-8608. You See That Movie?·· .. will Monday, November 20-John present :Oman Polanski's · Allen Cameron will perform Knife in the Water on Friday, Irish and Scottish folk songs in November 17 at 8 and 10 p.m. concert at St. Mark's Com- and Satu\\'' , , November 18 at munity Center, Rt. 146, 8:30 p.m. Showings are in Guilderland Center. He will be Auditorium One at 175 New Friday, November 17--At SUNY A's Per£orming Arts · Center in the main theatre there : wu1· be· a perfonnance of Five . by Two Plus. The shows will be on Friday, November 17 at 7 · p.m. and also on Saturday, · November 18 at the same time, For ticket info .call 457-'8606. The~tre _ Monday, November 20--: Landscape of the Body will be ' presented in the Lab Theatre at · SUNYA's Pe.rforming Arts. Center Nov. 20 through Dec. 2. at . 8 p.m. There will also be a matinee at 2 p.m. on Saturday, ' December 2. For ticket In-· :1: formation call the PAC Box· .r~ Office at 457-8606 or 458-7530 for· j the Albany League of Arts 2 Community Box Office in · .l Colonie Center. J Monda·y night Karate! ~------------------------.-----------~--------~--------~------~ Salaries This Ch~istmas vacation: ·- oHanq ~und the house o Fiqht crowds on skj slopes. 51 Go to Europe. · . I $260 roundtrjp. Reserved seats. No standing in: li:ne. . ' - ; - Take advantage .of National Airlines' new \inter-National\ fare from New York to Amsterdam this vaeation. This is not a stand-by fare. lt's_on a regularly scheduled National Airlines nonstop transatlantic flight. It's a guaranteed reserved roundtrip seat with inflight meal service. It's on a big, beautiful National wide-cabin DC-10 jet So why hang around the house when you can hang around the mellow \brown cafes\? Why fight crowds on the ski slopes when you can fight your way into the Paridiso orVoom,Voom, two of the wikte-st discos east of Studio 54? Come with us to Amsterdam. It's one ofthe most student-oriented -cities in Eur;ope;Jt's where English is everybody's second language. National's \inter-National\ fare is good on a substantial, but liry~ited, number of seats on every National New York to Amsterdam flight starting December 13. Just pay for your tickets when you make your reservations. (There is a $3 federal departure tax, arid $50 is non\'fefundable if you change or caneel reservations. Fare subject to change without notice.) See your Travel Agent'now or call us at 1-800-327-2306. The bigger we get, the brigbterwe shine: Continued from page 1 stanfl, not even the causes of these rifts ha.ve been treated, and. so persist as threats to facalty morale in the future as wei!. - Tile coming months, then, .hold much · itt store for the - cQllege as a · whole. As the course of the College in\freating these salary issues beqomes more well-defined, diffuse faculty. emotions will come . ·tog.et!Jer in either a cooperative attitude or a dis~ordant one. , E:Qr the sake of academics and · academicians at Union, let us hope these attitudes · show themselves to be of favorable form.. · Continued from page _3 all the course offerings. Again, inquiries should b~ directed to Chris Lindsay, box 2558, or leave a messl!g.e in room 21'4, Carnegie Hall. · · If you don't wish to take the classes f~r credit, but just for the sheer enjoyment as many people currently are doing, you are strongly encouraged to do .so. It tssuggested that you attend the class at least once a week to · keep up,_ but chances ar.e-you'll want to .go much more oft51n. If y9u still are unsure, just dr.op into one of the classes one day and see it for yourself. . In the winter, the beginning dance classes will -meet from 4~30 to 6: p.m. Monday through Thursday in room 202, Art-s Building. The intermediate . class will ..... m~et frQm 6 to .7 :30 p.m. ·on Thursdays. '- . Continued from page 4 _ ·When asked what she thought was different about Union, as compared to the other educational institutions she has been part of she noted that she had observed very few married students here. Mrs. Aub_urn is one of the very few President's wives who has ventured to the :Pub and the Skellar on Saturday nights. She promises to be more tlian just a . president's wife, with so much to offer to the school in ex- change for all the school has to · offer her. Concluding, Mrs. Auburn said~ \If we can do anything at all here, we can try to make a turnaround in attitudes. Everyone should be proud of ·being part of Union.\ , .. - . - ] The 1 highly: 18-Q trc Rugby 1 fourth·1 demon defense and.SpE display the NC support Tom team c ripping wheelln thirty y Ch'i m footwor sideste defendE Burt Sl; points i style to lead. Forti halfUni several du.e to assesse hard hil Levine the Bt gaining any tim score a1

! . OONOORDIEN818, November 16~ 1978 Page 11 _6port6 Ruggers Close ·season On High Note I ' The Union Ruggers closed a Some smart kicking and field highly successful season with. a play .by .John Brnwn and Tony 18~ troUncing of the Bershire Ward gave the home squad the Rugby Club. It was the Garnet's momentllfl'l early in the second fourth shutQut ofthe fall as they half .. A sustained drive was demonstrated their ironclad e.apped by a dazzling dash by defense once again. The p()tent wing Mark · Pfieffer who ap- and. speedy offense was also on pea red. to have ·scored, but the display for those who forfeited ball squirted about and bounded the NCAA soceer tourney to into the end zone. An elect Chip support· the Rugby team. \Ribbed\ Fenn out hustled two Torn Talbot put the home Bershire mggers to touch the team on the board early by ball down for a try. Dan May, ripping the hall out .. of a playing a strong fultba.ck ' wheellng serum and gaHoping position all afternoon, con- thi,rty yards. for the try. The Sig vetted the kid~ to make it lUI Chi man showed s~mie fine midway through the second footwork and balance as he period. ' sidestepped defenqer after~ Superb line play my Marty defender en route-to the score, White and Lee Waxman was a Burt Slavin con:yerted the extra major factor in Union's second points in his usual nonchalant half dorninance. Their twisting style to give Union an early 6.0 runs and heads up kicking put lead·. , . - the Ruggers de'ep in Bershire For the remainder of the first·· territory once again. This time half Union failed to capitali~e on it was Jeff Hiesler who keenly several SCQ.ring opportunities faked a pass and scooted twenty du.e to numerous penalties yards just short of th'e goaL He assessed against them. Some released the ball to the om- hard hitting and nustle by Eric nipresent Tommy Talbot who Levine and Scott Shirkin kept busted over for the score. The the Berkshire squad from extra' points were automatic for gaining goo'd. field position at Dan ''Tobacco Road\ May any time, leaving the halftime despite. a painful injury score at 6-0. ·sustained earlier. Special than~ks · goes to one of Schenectady's finest, Jim \Earnie'' Stants. -:The final score of18-0, and the game as a whole, is reflective of this y~ar's :Rugby team. 1 They -- are a fine group of dedicated athletes the school can be proud of displaying. Being the most successful.of all fall, teams the_r deserve a great deal of credit and recognition. \ ·C tiD E J IL ,. ... ~ :t; ~ a. f Congratulations, Ruggers, for a job well done and a fine season. We aU look forward to the ex- citment and thrill of your competition this spring. Goalie Dave Josephson and wing.ar Jim Anderson will be on ice when Union opens its season Friday night at Achilles Rink ag~inst Elmira. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ · · 464 State St. we deliver Schene,ctady . 374;_1888 A TERRIFYING LOVE STORY JOSEPH E. LEVINE PRESENTS MAGIC ANTHONY HOPKINS ANN-MARGRET BURGESS MEREDITH ED LAUTER EXECUTIVE PRODUCER C.O ERICKSON MUSIC BY JERRY GOLDSMITH SCREENPLAY BY WILLIAM GOLDMAN, BASED UPON HIS NOVEL PRODUCED BY JOSEPH E. LEVINE ' AND RICHARD P. LEVINE Let's Eat Right! The Pvb is now offering a ~ meal plan to begin Winter term. Now's your chance to eat good food for less than $3 per meal( $165for the term). Sut hurry, only a I im ited number will be accepted. ' The Best Money You will Ever Spend is in getting this book on construction estimating called \1How to Estimate Construction Costs.~~ Invest in/ yourself and make your own future. Get a start in developing the -rarest ski II and the steadiest job in the construction field. Or in starting a business of your own as an estimator. Shows youa really easy way to develop a talent you can use all your life. Send $6.00 to J. Patrick, Box 4086, Albany, N.Y. 12204. Money refunded in ten days if not pleased. THIS COU:LD BE YOU:R DAY. It's the day the Air Force ROTC counselors will visit your campus to talk about AFROTC prC>grams. It's the day you can hear more doout a two, three or four- year scholarship that pdys all tuition, books and lab fees, plus $100 each month. It's the day you con learn about working your way to a commission in th~ Air Force . . and a~l that goes with it. · It's the day the AFROTC counselor will tell you about a great way to serve your country and yourself, and about how you co~ continue work !~ward an advcrnced deg.ree after entering act1ve ouly as an A1r Force officer. So, when the. counselor arrives, ask questions . . about P.oy . prom~trons • opportunities ... responsibilities. There s no obl1gat1on, and you might be getting closer to a s~holorship that will help you reach your goals, no matter how htgh you've got them set: _ NOV. 17th &·20th DIRECTED BY RICHARD ATTENBOROUGH See us at Carnegie Hall 9:00a.m.- 2: (10 p.m. . , ~:n~~ ~!Jr.:;,. · ~ PRINTS BY DE LUXE' TEGHNICOLOR' 'R: \'\\'\' ·T-; r.)'. .¢-·'\'--.a.~~-~· NOW PLAYING AT A THEATER NEAR YOU CHECK LOCAL NEWSPAPERS FOR THEATER LISTINGS I .ROTC ··~.to 0 ~;, \0' . cv r,l I of e.

Page 1~ OONOORDIENSIS, November 16, 1978 sports Crushes Glassboro St. 4-0 Soccer Team Rolls in NCAA-,Dehut by KAROL WOJTYLA The Union College Soccer Team, making its initial ap- pearance in NCAA .post-season play, did so in impressive fashion by trouncing lackluster Glassboro State 4.0. and the pressure from the first half began !!gain. At the 17- minute mark Hanz Bukow, on a cross from Brian Shea, hitch- kicked the ball beautifUlly into the upper right-hand part of the goal. Union now led 3-0. For the entire second half, however, it was the . defense which .sparkled. Led by Mike Mulpeter, Jamie Hilton and Pete Cholakis it rose to the occasion and prov.ed to be impenetrable. Jim Manning also helped to keep the defense organized. Although the fullbacks played the lead in this shutout, enough cannot be said about goalie Doug Crawford. llis smart, tough play capped a fine defensi~e effort bv Union. Union did score once~more. It came with 3:32left irrthe game when John Kovacs smartly crossed into Pa u1 Marvin whose head. shot hit the crossbar but rebounded to a waiting Pete Handy who in the same manner as Marvin put it through for the final score. The Dutchnwn now travel to Cortland Saturday, November ~ 18: to play Cortland State, who ~ d'efeated Albany State 2•1. i . Should the Dutchmen win that u, one, ~hey would then advance to a the fmal f~u~ ~t Babson for the - S NCAA Division III cham- · pionship. j John Kovacs, whei scored twice las-t Sa:turq~y . . . Union came into the game looking confident and left with every reason to be. The Dut- chmen came out for the first half and proceeded to put 45 minutes of pressure on Glassboro goalie Craig Camp- bell. Union set the tone of the game at 38:27 when Pete Van Valkenburgh ·crossed beautifully from the baseline to Kovacs who blasted a shot past Campbell into the far corner of the net for a 1..() lead. Van Valkenburgh's pass was at- tributable to the half-asleep Glassboro fullbacks who would not awaken until aroWld 4:00 PM that afternoon. Union kept the pressure on but found the net elusive. Kovacs, Who truly played one of the finest games of his career, helped keep that pressure on by delivering passes that would have turned Franz Beckenbauer green with envy. . .dd · · ·· ·. · . .·. ·1 Gr1 ·•.·· · ers Trounce Ha:·rril ton The Union gridders ended the 1978 season by totalily destroying Hamilton College 49- 8 in Clinton NY this past weekend. The point tdtal was the largest for any Dutchmen team in recent history as the Union· squad completely dominated their New York State rivals. The performance marked one of the few times this season when the Dutclunen offense reached their full . potential. They racked up an impressive 268 yards on the ground led by Rich Romer (111 yards) and Mike Squier 179 yards). In addition .both backs netted two scores each, Homer's coming on runs of one and eight yards while ·Squier sprinted his way into the end zone from 30 and 27 One of his more notable passes wa~ a pretty \lead\ to Pete Van Valkin burgh whose shot on goal was just nicked out of the net by a Glassboro fullback. With about 25 minutes left Jim Stoothoff blasted a shot on goal which was just a little high of being a marker. When the Dutchmen had every right to be frustrated they just kept hounding the Glassboro defense. With nine seconds to go in the half, freshman Hanz Bukow directed a nice cross about 15 yards in front of the yards out. The efforts of both goal; Mike Canning, in good rWlne~s w.ere bolstered . by .an position, narrowly missed on a·__. offensive l~ne whos~ domm~t10n bicycle kick and it went by him over therr Hamtlton coun• to a waiting John Kovacs who terparts was so comple~e that meally headed the ball past the Dutchmen w~re llterally Craig Campbell for another able to score at will. Union goal. The score at in- termission: Union 2-Glassboro 0. The second half started out somewhat ·differently. Glassboro became more aggressive on offense and the Dutchmen appeared content to sit on their lead. But this lasted only a few minutes as the Union defense proved impervious; this inspiring display of defense fired the Dutchmen offense up As if the one-two punch of Homer and Squier wasn't enough, the Garnet also received an outstanding game from senior co-captain Andy Terranova (9-15-0, 170 yards). In fact, his contributions earned him the Rue award given an- nually to the outstanding per- former by a Union player in the Hamilton game. He did, however, receive tremendous assistance from wide receiver Kevin Fredricks who single One of next year;s co-captains, Carmen Saginario. handedly destroyed the Con- tinental secondary grabbing six passes on the day, some of the acrobatic variety. Recovering from last weeks rout by Middlebury, the Dut- chmen defense once again returned to form giving up but one score, and that coming on a freak 51 yard bomb ·when a UIIion defender tripped. While holding the Hamilton offense to a mere 89 yards rushing the Garnet defense also forced them to turn the ball over on four occasions, three times on interceptions and once on a fumble. AU in all the final score ae~ curately ·reflected the onesidedness of the contest as the Dufchmen were able to remove their starters from the game midway into the third q11arter. With the season officially over special recognition should be given to those seniors who have C{lmpleted their college football careers af Union. Although the Dutchmen are only l<>sing four seniors this.year aH four were indeed vital to the success of thjs years squad. The four are.: kicker Jim McDonald (who hit on 'l of 7 extra points ~gainst Hamilton), middle linebacker Alan Hertzberg and of course co-captains Ed Elinski . and Andy Terranova. - To briefly summarize the Dutchmen offensive unit was led by quarterback Terranova who compiled 1094 yards passing :hitting on 83 of 185 at- tempts. ln addition, he also led the team in scoring with 36 points, rated second in ·rushing with 408 yards, and was the teams most consist~nt punter with a 32;,5 yard average. 'For the third straight season halfback Rich Romer was the leading ground gainer for the Garnet with 721 yards on 163 carries for a 4.4 .per carry average. Romer also led the team in kickoff returns sporting a23.4 yard average and in yards averaged per pass reception netting 16.2 yards per grab. Wid~ receiver Henry Wright barely edged out his coun- terpart Kevin Fredrick for the lead in receptions 26-23 and in total yards gained 319-31!). Also, Joey Polletto, injured for the final two contests of the season snared 16 aerials while tight end Kevin Eberly grabbed nine - · passes on the year three- of which went for scores. Overall, the Dtltdhmen of- . fense scored 116 .points in the eight game season for a 22 -r>()ints per game average while r~cking up an impressive 2812 yards in total offense. It should be noted ihat the entire offense line (tackles Mike Dana and Gordie Single, guards Wayne Tunick and Do11g Ferguso-n, and center Bill Egan). wpo were mainly responsible .for these totals, will all be returning next fall. Unque~tionably, however, the greatest improvement in the 1978 Dutchmen Squad was the solidification of an aggressive defensive unit which kept the Garnet in contest after contest. While they did give· up 2255 yards in total offense, the statistic is somewhat misleading-because 946 of these yards were given up to only two teams, Middlebury and Bates. T].:ms, against the other six Dutchmen opponents they allowed only 1309 yards or an average of a paultry 218 yards per game. In particular was the play of the defensive sec<1ndary. For the eight games, they allowed only 781 yards through the air , average of less than 100 yards per game. Like tbe offensive line, all four of the .primary defensive backs will also be returning next season in- the form of_ Carmen Saginario, Dave Wilbur, .Kevin Kormondy and Terry Weber. Weber, in ' fact,. led the team in in-- terceptions with three and fn punt returns with a 12.1 yard average. Another key aspect ~f the defensive squad was the solid performance of the ma-ny newcomers who helped to stabilize the defense where it appeared that they would lack the rnost depth, in the defensive line. The presence of Chitr Syrninton, Weldon Turner, Bruce Maleina, Dave FeldmfJn and Mark Polamba combined to silence any doubt about a weak defensive front. It was with the efforts of these players that Union added the expected contributions of veteran standouts Andy Jarret, Dan Leff, Carmen Audino, Stev~ , McCarthy, Ron Plum and of. course Hertzberg and Elinski to create a 'formidable if not outstanding defensive unit. The most important statistic~ h()wever, isthe one concerning. wins and_ loses and in this regard the Dutchmen season was indeed a, disappointment. Spotting .a 3-5 recQrd the team could have easily been 6·2 lo'sing to Hobart (17-7), Williams (11--3) and Co:ijly (28-26) in games where a few breaks would have easily . reversed the outcome. Thus, Union prepares to go into 1979 with a ·.strong nucleus (centering around newly elected co-captains Ron Plum and · Carmen· Saginario) and high h9pes that it will finally be the_season -When they graduate from respectability and medi<l~rity lo excellence and a winning if not outstanding season< Fi-ishee Wins by MICHAEL POLLOCK The Union College Frisbee Club won ita first ·.game last Sunday defeating Albany State 28 to 22. This win was Union's first of the year as well as their first home game. Union lead right .from the start with Albany never getting closer than two points in the first half. The halftime score was Union 13, Albany 8. Union was cha11ged up at the start of the second half; Tasting revenge of Union's one point loss t<> Albany last week at RPI. Some. sloppy defensive play by Union allowed Albany to close within one point, but Union wasn't about to lose. With only four minutes left; Union out- scoved Albany and opened a four po.int lead'. That was quickly stretched to six points. the final margin. Union is looking forw~rd to a rubber match with Albany in the future. The .frisbee club would also like to thank those who came to lend support. - Vol Pre yeste anotl Prest has ~ Boar< winte City. Thi: of c comn Pre~i mitte~ for co So mittel candit fourth These from dividu campt The elude~ minis truste1 name~ befor~ If I appro begin could 38cou nomo could Thi! by tl Comn lmee the di&cu meetil con sic meetil mont~ The allowi enginE electri requir gradu Pre, studer COUrSE degreE The Provid credit: engine be rt overlo course that t.t course \En to be r: course

