l f r e i, d e a n '• r !. e Vol. ~· 0~1-,- No. 20 ' Schenectady,· N.Y. Energy Conservation Proposal pr()vided for within the 1979-80 chitec.t ·wh(,)m the College budget, while the best method empl~ys in a part-time fashioo. ''Because <>f the ever- for the fin~ncing of the $1 increasing magnitude of the million balance is still ·under energy crisis including the consi<l~ration. The four spiralling ·CQst of fuel and lack alt~rnafives .for financing to of fuel sources, it has become wh~ch Hauser points include more aod more '(!lear that Union borrowi11g from local banks, College should embark on.,.an from .state ~uth()rities, from a aggressive energy: conservation combination . of federal and progti!m.'' So reads the preface state authorities, and from the to the College's · \Ener·gy College's endowment. te .cues Conservation Program,\ a •the ''ll%·11% percent prime h t · rate of interest'' on loans as a 't · re.e-s age energy~saving · dete.rrent from local hcmk proposal presented . to, an.d borrowing, and the • 'fixed approved by, the Board of schedu:le payments with in/ Trustees a.t their .on--campus terest\ as discouraging factors meeting of last weekf;!nd. ..· · in borrowing from the College's The three programs endowment, ~~~~~:ted inp~:j!~f:~ are:~: The fe<le.,al and. state loan '!'he energy program to be effected by the College does not address all ofthe energy pitfalls ,present here. Rather, it .is designed to implement \items which have.the most .proje~ed savings.\ All of the scheduled projects ''have payback periods anywhere from two to seven years,\ and it is expected that by 1987 they will in concert \yield a net savings of ap- prox:imately $250,000 a year (in 1979 dollars') each year.\ As far as the .progress of the actual modifications process is concerned, aauser adnlits that although the College has ~'touched base with some vendors on things, no contracts have been Signed.\ Con~inued on page 14 ·Thursday, May 3, 1979 Locales. tor eRergy cutbacks. \Environment ~rrojeet,\ and _ ~lternatives, becau~e of their the ''Energy . Manag·ement. mtere.st~free attnbute, . ate Project. • '. Tbe \Pilot ·Proj~ct'' p~offere_dby H~user. as ~h.e ropst entails tbe ·insulation w.itlr vtable aJternabv-es m ftJ1ancml?: fiJJergl~ss of the ceiling spaces. t~e PN>]ect.H;, state~ his con- in -w'est, North.. ~rid South ft~ence that we wrll .enq up Gollege dor~ft-oties; the ~Jth ()~e. of t~e low~r-ibterest replac.emento£300 West College ~~temattves,. ·. ~d~mg that incandescent Ugbt fi,nures with .. many m~lh~f;;ulhon. do1lar fluorescent fiXtures; and the college pr()Jects make ~e of improvement of the ~efficiency_ . these .l11tter. alternatives. of a ooller,in the main power Haus~r IS c~~m7;an! of the fact plant. · ·· · · ·· - ·· t~~t. '',t~e fmanc~al re!;lpol}\ Union, Opens· Communication The second stage . of the Sl~llity ,~ t~e problem Qf th1s energy . . pr'Ogra~, ~he (hiS) Pff1ce.. . . \Environmental: ~o!tifications . H_a~er ~~~ers t? the .overall Project,'' ca1ls fot:, the in- pto]ect as · ~sseetuilllY a three- solation With ceiling fiberglass . ~~. operat1on •. - Tbe respo~~ of 30 bUildings; the installation sJbilltY'. for the. progra~ s of heat~savirig storm windows conce:pt1on . 11nd It~ execution and-or vestibul~s in \ap~ JM:longs to lfuns~lf, t~e ueon proximately 10'' buildings; tbe Dlte~tDr of Mamtenance . and replacement of incandescent P~Y-S:'(!al P~ant, .. Mr •. ~ichard lights with fluorescent oqes in· 16 Mills, and Mr · Jack Litlnsky of· buildings, incltulillg ''most of the l~cally-based Saratoga. the major dormitoriesf'' ~nd Associates, a planner and ar· .. . Student Forum has recently proposed .forming a student ass()ciation to .facilitate · ... .com- mUl1ication between institutions similar· to Union,· in the belief that sharing infermation would resnlt in the_ improvement in student life on varioll$ cam- puses. The schools a.pprQaehed ar~ .. 3Jl NortJJeastern, co .. educational ana predozn!nantly residential liberal arts in- stitutions. They are: Bates, · 'Bowd<~in, Colby, Dartmouth, Wesleyan, Amherst •. Williams, Trinity, Vassar; llamilton, Colgate, and MiddlebutY. The idea has already been en- thusiastieaUy endorsed by $1;udent life 1 including housing Vassar, Colby, Dartmouth., contracts, constitutions and Wesleyan, and Hafullton, with social calendars. It may ev-$!n be anticipated endorsement by possible through this group to Bowdoin, Colgate, 11nd most of coordinate soei'al events and tbe other institutions:· provide an opportunity for The asso~J~tion~ in order to students to attend events at set up cont~cts and ~~ab~$h ;. other schools. rapport, w111 hold 1ts .fttst An .informational session .for organizational .m~eting in t:wo ... an $t.uden:t~ interes.te«l ln weeks, and will meet .Once or seeking an elected office in the twice diu\ing an academic year Student Fotwn will be held on after it is firmly organized.. Monday ·at 4 ;30 in Strauss Comprised -cif top student Lounge. The iSsues involved in leaders and Deans of Students the election and the duties and of · the member shcools, the responsibilities of the various asso.ciation will discuss offices will be discussed at tbis everything concerned with meeting. cooling system col'rection and · p d ·p C · • · · other;\central heating plant .•.. . an ·.·. ·. •.. . ·ommlltee improvements. Efforts to in- stitute-thesir modifications-are scheduled to begin4h July of 1979 and it is ,h()ped that they Will be C()mpleted· by late Sept; of 1980. The comprehensive cost of the ''Environmental Modifications Project, is set at $571,200 and, althQugb the. Board has, authoriZe(\ funding for the ptogram, financing arrangements have yet to be Update A survey concerning the allocation of the Student Activity Fee· to the 42 depend on the nature of the · organizations annually fWlded completed. Stage three of the tri-faceted energy progl'C!m, entitled the~ \Energy Management Systems Project,\' all(lts $420,000 for \miscellaneous modifications\ to be made as is \deemed ap- propriate from a maximum p{yback and .. quality of life standpoint.\ This stage also provides for the establishment of an _ \energy management system\ which would :monitor energy use campus~wide and permit remote control of energy Qistribution, The total cost of the third-stage:is f432,200; while its startin~ date is .. January of 1960 and 1ts fiilishing- date is scheduled as· November of that year. bySTEVEGRlLL The Plallning and Priorities (P~P) Cemmittee met on Fdd~y, April 27, and continued its discussion of the · Preliminary Draft of the Athletics Report. Professor Nydeggt:lr said that Division . Chairmen bad been contacted by tbe drafting corrunittee for inpllt •. In addition to this, the comniittee is .requesting input from the College conun.unity. In~rcolleglate Athletics . Vice President for Finance and Administration, Mr. John R. Hauser, asked how mucb consideration has been given by · the dr~ting col.llmittee to the cost benefits of the in~ tercolleglate athletics program at Union. Prof. Nydegger in- dicated that the committee ht\'d A(lcording to UColl's Vice President for Finance and Administration, Mr. John· R. Hauser; ''the entire $1.1 million program will be dorie in an 18-20 ' · month period 1 \ with the first stage, the \Pilot PrQject~'' to be ready this summer. · The total cost of $1,095,000 - warranted by ·this energy ~ conservation program was ~ presented ;to the Trustees at last ~ Weekendrs meeting alo'Jigside 1i looked at the programs overall, and certain individual ones, on a participant basis. 'It was questioned whether or not money was spent in the 'best' way in each Of these athletic areas, and it Wail suggested that a. thorough study of the cost effect of all programs (in- tercollegiate and intramural) should be done. Professor Thomas asked if a study had been done concerning the t:elationship between alllniili support and intercollegi·ate sp6rts. Nydegger felt that some study- must bave beeo con- ducted at some schools, and ~dded that time did not permit ,this type, of analysis by tQe dr11fting committee. Prof. George Reynolds commented that any correlation between alumni support and in· terce>llegia~e sports would school. Nydegger claims that · will be. distributed in the near Rice University, which had future. All students are urged to conducted such studies, had complete this survey With the considered dropping their utmost seriousness as it will be· atnletic .program. The of prime consideration in Wliversity had never charged allocation of future. fWlds. tuition, and the alumni's major In their ineetingonTbursday, concern, as reflecte_d by the April 2.6th,. the Stud. ent Forum· Rice report; .was in requiring students to·· pay tuition; their defined tbo.se activities which major concern was not u1 are not W1der the auspices and athletics. Provost Huntley also jurisdiction of the Student said t)lat he felt that studies Forum and ineligible for funds must have been conducted by allocated by the Student Tax otlierschools, and he suggested Commi~tee. as .being . any that the American CoWlcil on production Ill which students Education. shoUld be contacted parti9ipate in .and which (a) the about this matter, as they would student participants or their probably be familiar with those duly constituted represen- reports. _ tatives do- not have, or fail to Prof. 1'homas asked whether demonstrate that ,they would in intercollegiate athletics comes fact have decision-making up at Alumni Councilmeetdmgs. authority over 1) .general Huntley replied that it does; progr~m or ·specific production admissions and athletics selection or 2) general program inevitably are spoken about at - or specific production design or every meeting. .3) all general program or Prof .. Thomas then ce>m~ specific production related mented that if, for example, expenditure, or in which b) any hockey and football did not exist nwnber of partiCipants would at Union, then the school might be reJ)eiving academic credit spend money in areas Qther for their participation. than athletics. The Forum also decided that • the Student 'fax Committee Hockey and the RiDk may transfer Student tax Prof. Aubrey then initiated a . money directly to any discussion ahout Achilles Rink. _ responsible party or parties lie said tltat the situation is associated with the College, yet different than it had been four outside . tbe jurisdiction and years ago., and therefore the auspices of tbe Student Forum, rink had to be looked at in a in recognition of some e:s:· different light. He then asked tracurricular value to the what the operating cost deficit matriculating Uitdergraduate of tbe rink was. In this year's students ofthe College paying a the proposal itself, and they ~ approved full funding for the f undertaking. T!t~_$92,000 cost of ~;~M budget, it is · expected that Student A:ctivities Fee, so long \' $100tOOO will be taken in by· the as the appropriation receives a rink as reveune and this two-thirds approval of the the 'cPilot )?rogram'' i$ atteadY P & P Cotnmi1tee convenes. Continued on page 14 Student Forum. .. ' ' I i f l d 1

1, d e a n :- ~. . e ..Founded at -U,ion Colle,e_ 1877 Vol. l Ofj-, NQ. 20 .. Schenectady,· N.Y. \. Energy C--onsarvation P'roposal ~y DOUG ROS&NFELD. provided for within the 1979-80 budget, while the best method \Becau~e of the ever- for the financing of the· $1 increasing magnitude of the million balance is still ·under energy crisis includin:g the consideration. The four spiralling cost ·of fuel and lack alt~roafives for financing to of 'fuel sources, it tlas become which Hauser points. include more and more clear that Union borrowing from local banks, College should embark on_an .from state authQrities, from a aggressive energy conservation combination of federal and progrqm.'' So reads the preface state authOrities, and from the to the College's • 'Energy College•s endowment. Ee cites Conservation Program,'' ·a ·the \lPh-11 3 4 percent prime . three•stage energy-saving rate of interest\ on loans as a proposal prese.nted to, and deterrent from local bank approved by, the Board .of borrowing, and the ''fixed T t t h · schedUle payments with in-- rus ees a t · e1r owcampus terest\ as disc. ouraging factors meeting of last weekend. The t.hree programs in.borrowing from the College's endowment. delineated in the repart are the Th. e federal an· d' st·ate loan· \Pilot Project,'~ the \Environment Project,'' and alternati-ves, because of their chitect ·whom Ute :College employs in a part-time fashion. The energy program to be effected by the College does not address all.of the energy pitfalls present here. Rather, it is designed to implement \items which have the most proje~ed .savings.\ All .of the scheduled projects \have payback periods anywhere from two to seven years,\ and it is expected that by 1987 they will in concert \yield a net savings of ap- proximately $250,000 a year {in 1979 dollars) each year.\ As far as the progress of the actual modifications process is concerned, l{auser admits U1at although the College has \touched base with some vendors on things, no contracts have been signed.\ Continued on page 14 ·Thursday, May 3, 1979 Locales tor energy cutbacks. the ''.Energy Management. interest-free attribute, .ate Project.\ The \Pilot Project'' proffered by Hauser as the most entails the insulation witt•- viable alternatives in financing fi.berglass of the ceiling spaces the .project. He states his con- in . West; North, arid South .fidence that \we will em\ up C 11 d with one ·of the lower-ihterest · · 0 ege ormit'Qries; the · alternatives,\ adding· that Union Opens Communication replacement of 300 West College incandescent light fixtures with \many multi-million dollar fluorescent fixtures; and the college projects\ make ~e of improvement of the -efficiency_ ·these .tatter . alternatives. of a boiler: in the main power Hause,r, Is CQ~m~an~ of the fact plant, ·· · · · · · t~~t. . t~e fmanctal respol'_l- The second stage . of the Sl~tllty 1~ . t~e problem of thts energy . program, . Jhe (his) offiCe. .. . . . \Environmental\ Modifications H!iuser ~~fers t~ the overall Project,'' cans fo~, the in· proJect as ~sse,~tially a three- solation with ceiling fiberglass ~a!l .• operatl.on, --. The respo~­ of 30 bUildings; the installation SJhthty. for .. the. progra~ s of heat•saviilg .storm windows concept10n ~nd It~ execution and-or vestibules in \ap- b~longs to mms~lf, the UColl proxiJnately 11)\ buildings; the I>tre~tor of Mamtenanc~ and replacement of incandescent P~ys~cal Plant,. Mr .. ~tchard lights with fluore~cent ones il1 1 6 Mills, and Mr. Jack Litmsky of buildings, including \most of the l_ocally-based Saratoga the major doi,'Illitories;\ and Assoctates, a planner and ar- Student Forum has recently proposed forming a studerit assocb~tion to facilitate ·-..com- munication between institutions similar· to Union, in the belief: that sharing inf&nnation would result in the. improvement in student life on various cam- puses. The schools approached are .. ill No.rtbea~tern, . co- educational ana predoJn!nantly residential liberal arts in- stitutions. They are: Bates, Bowdoin, Colby, Dartmouth, Wesleyan, Amherst, Williams, Trinity, Vassar; Hamilton, Colgate, and MiddlebutY. The idea has already been en- thusiastically endorsed by Vassar, Colby, Dartmouth, Wesleyan, and Hamilton, with anticipated endorsement by Bowdoin, Colgate, and most of the other institutions: The assoc.Jption, in order to set up contacts and establish rapp<>rt, w:m hold its first organizational meeting in tYio . weeks, and will meet once or twice during an academic year after it is firmly organized. Comprised :of top student leaders and Deans of Students of the member shcools, the association will discuss everythin~ concerned with student· life, including housing contracts, constitutions and social calendars. It may ev~n be possible through this group to coordinate social events and provide an opportunity for stud~nts to attend events at .. ott1er schools. An irtfonnational session for all students interested in seeking an elected office in. the Student Forum will be held on Monday at 4:30 in Strauss LoUllge. The iSsues involved in the election and the duties and responsibilities of the various offices will be discussed at this meeting. cooling system. correction and other ,central heating plant improyements. Efforts to in- stitute these modifications are scheduled to begin .rlfi July of 1979 atid it is hoped that they will be c()mpleted .by late Sept. of 1980. The comprehenSive cost of the ''Environmental Modifications Pr<Jject\ is set at $571,200 and, although the Board has. authorized funding for the program. financing arrangements have yet to be P .and P Committee Update A .survey concerning the allocation of the Student Activity Fee· to the 42 depend on the nature of the organizations annually funded completed. Stage three of the tri~faceted energy program, entitled the. \Energy Management Systems Project,\ allots $420,000 for \miscellaneous modifications\ to be made as is ''deemed ap-. propriate froQl a maximum PaYback and quality of life standpoint.\ Tbis stage also provides .for the establishment of an _ \energy m~agement system'' whi.-:11 would monitor energy use campus-:-wide and pet·mit remote control of energy Qistribution, The total cost of the third-stageis$432,200, while its starting date is January of 1980 and . its finishing date is scheduled as·N'ovember of that year. by STEVE GRILL The Planning and Priorities (P&P) Committee met on Fviday, April 27, and continued its discussion of the · Preliminary Draft of the Athletics Report. Professor Nydegger said that Divisiol! . Chairmen had been contacted by the drafting committee for input. In addition to this, the committee is requesting input from the College conununity. Intercollegiate Athletics Vice President for Finance and Administration, Mr. John R. Hauser, asked how much consideration has been given by the drafting committee to the cost benefits of the in· tercollegiate athletics program at Union. Prof. Nydegger in- dicated that the committee had According to UColl's Vice President for Finance and Administration, Mr. John R. Hauser, \the entire $1.1 million program will be done in an 18-20 · · month period, \ with the first stage, the \Pilot ProjeCt,\ to be ready this swnrner . The total C()St .of $1,095,000 ~ warranted hy · this energy ;§ conservation program was j presented to the Trustees at last •. weekend's meeting alongside J; the proposal itself, and they ~ approved full funding for the ~ ~~­ looked at the programs overall, Md certain individual ones, on a participant basis. lt was questioned whether or not money was spent in the 'best' way in 'each ol these atllletic areas, and it was suggested that a. thorough study of the cost effect of all programs (in~ tercollegiate and intramural} should be done. Professor Thomas asked if a study had been done c<incerning the t:elationship between alumni support 1:1nd intercollegiate sports. Nydegger felt that some study. must have been con- ducted at some schools, and a.dded that time did not permit this type. of analysis by tl'!e drafting committee. .Prof. George Reynolds commented that any correlation between alumni support and in· tercollegiate sports would undertaking. Tlt~ $92,000 cost of the \Pilot Progrmn\ is already The P & P Committee co'!vehes. school. Nydegger claims that - will be distributed in the near Rice University, which had future. All stu~ents are urged to conducted such studies, had complete this survey with the considered dropping their utmost seriousness as it will be athletic program. The of prime consideration in university had never charged allocation of future. funds. tuition, and the alumni's major concern, as reflecte..d by the In their meeting on Thursday, R . . April 26th, the Student Forum ··tee report, was Ill requiring defined those activities wh1'~\ students to pay tuition; their '!;&! major concern was not in are not under the auspices and athletics. Provost Huntley also jurisdiction of the Student said that he felt that studies Forum and ineligible for funds must have been cpnducted by allocated by the Student Tax tli · h 1 d h t d Committee as being .any o er sc oo s, an e sugges e production in which students that the American C<>Uncil on Education shoUld be contacted parti~ipate in and which (a) the about this matter, as they would student participants or their probably be familiar with those du~y constituted represen- reports. . tatlves dO' not have, or fail to Prof. Thomas asked whether demonstrate that _they would in inteFcoUegiate athletrcs comes fact have decision-making up at Alumni Council meetdngs. authority over 1) general Huntley replied that it does; program or specific production admissions and athletics selection or 2) general program inevitably are spoken about at or specific production design or every meeting. 3) all r,eneral program or Prof. Thomas then cotn- specific production related mented that if. for example, expenditure, or in which b} any hockey and football did not exist number of participants would at Union, then the school might be re~eiving academic credit spend money in areas other for their participation. than athletics. The Forum also decided that • the Student Tax Committee Hockey and the Rink may transfer Student Tax Prof. Aubrey then initiated a . money directly to any discussion about Achilles Rink. _ responsible party or parties He said that the situation is associated with the College, yet different. than it had been four outside the jurisdiction and years ago, and therefore the auspices of the Student Forum, rink had to be looked at in a in recognition of some ex· different light. He then asked tracurricular value to the what the operating cost deficit matriculating undergraduate of the rink was. In this year's students of the College paying a budget, it is expected that Student Activities Fee, so long \ $15tMOO will be taken in by the as the appropriation receives a rink as reveune and this two-thirds approval of the Continued on page 14 Student Forum. ' t

Page 2 CONOORDIENSIS, May 3, 19i9 (!lournr Editors-in-Chief News Editors Layout Editors Feature Editors Associate Editor Business Editors Classified Editor Arts Editor . Sports Editors· Copy Editor . Photography Editor Fine Lines Editor Douglas Rosenfeld, Sara Simmons Paul Feinsot, Melissa Cragin Matt Nagorsky, Dan Wojnilower · Sue Barnhart, Donna Creeley David Rubin Carole Reinig, Gina Torrisi · Roberta Moss . · Cin~y Aranow Matt Kayne, Mark Palomba Pam Ryan . PatWrignt JanDeDeka Staff: Pat Condello, Ellen VanDyke, Debbe Damrell, Sue Marr, Joanne,Malih · :coNCORDIENSIS is .published every Thursday by the student :body of Union College, Carnegie Hall, Schenectady, New York, 12308; Publications Office: Susquehanna Publications, Inc., 8 1 2 ;Reynolds Ave., Oneonta, New York 13820, .(607) 432-673f. Entered in . . ·the Schenectady Post Office as third class matter, Subscription rate: 35 cents per copy, $10 per year, delivered anywhere in the . United States. Keep Singing To the Editor: institution, we just keep gOing and growing. If tbere is one hope that I have, it is the hope that thnse at Union realiZe what is at Union! Coming Of Age by JIM DAVIS Last weekend saw this reporter paying a visit to the Boston area. One of the more notable features about Massachusetts, as far as many college student;;; there are concerned, is that the state legislature recently-as of April 16-raised the legal drinking age from 18 to 20. , I spent a night at Holy Cross College in Worcester, about 40 miles west of Boston and, at least there, the new regulations , are being strictly enforced. Proof of age is required for admission into college functions and establishments serving booze. And, contrary to what some people might think, no ·exceptions ,are being made. As a result, numerous students there, and presumably elsewhere in the state:, are· miffed at the ru.Ung. More than that, last weekend they were also far Irtore likely to be at a loss for nighttime activities. . It's a fact of life, of which Union 'can serve as · a crime example, that most collegiate sacial functions depend on the flow of beer, wine and other such libations. Take them away, and, at least for a time, students are going to be, as they were at Holy Cross, at a loss for things to do. This isn't to suggest, though, that the stiffer law has created a dearth of nocturnal activities. In fact, with alcoholic spirits removed for the under~20 crowd-who :make up most of the freshman and sophomore classes-these people may find c()?lt:ing more than $000 t{l the hav,e ·the option t{} present an P)anning \and Priorities app:eal before the· Stud(:!nt Committee._ The Modern Dance F~r:tim. ln . fact, two c1ub ·learned of this · J,l6:Uey organmati.ons vesorted to thiS several months too late · to -. action dun~ the. fall ter~ 'Q.f ~- ... \ I themselves exploring new horizons and meeting more peo.ple than they otherwise would. The point is that the law seems, to me at least, to do little n1ore than give college students a harct tirM for the first part of their undergraduate days. In itself, -this situation is an intere~ting piece of trivia, but little else; just make that if you're less than 20-years-old and want to drink th.at youden't go to Massachusetts. But it hits closer to home because a sirpJlar st.atutory change is bemg considered in New York. Th~ primary .purpose of this law, it seems, is to deter drinking among high school students and other minors. Continued on page 14 ·AI .. rm··.· ·n· .. < ..... ·'- g Sit..watlon . . .. .~ .:. A byP: Inthez you wan grQunds weather, new pla from Ad House, l fountain These 1 projects enhance tractiv4 College .• a speci whei:eal a larger howevel 'concerJ membe cornmu The Jacksm sponsor senior ( plans t fellow circilla fountai below · den. W walk c Kappa with surrou1 project Corum perha~ AnothE thisf01 wishin canpa done mornil weekE willin€ welcm but o~ will a dig gin more projec restf.t Jacks The GardE which its be half .. 1830's mush scapi rest recei COffiJl Th• the h were . cam1 elms ceHtt they were their ·elm Sche elm~ dest Willi Harl ever mos attr dev4 by s cont syst sca1 Tl 196~ tqe1 pro: pla1 al01 Sm 1

Page 2 OONOORDIENSIS, May 3, 1979 Editors-in-Chief Douglas RosenfEld, Sara smun· . ons News Editors Layout Editors Paul Fe insot, Melissa Cragin Feature Editors Matt Nagorsky, Dan Wojnilower Associate Editor Sue Bar11hart, Donna Creeley Business Editors David Rubin Classified Editor CaroleR.einig, Gina Torrisi Arts Editor . · Roberta Moss ' S Edi Cindy Aranow parts tors Matt K.alrlle, Mark Palomba Copy Editor ' ·· Photography Editor Pam Ryan F . L' Ed' Pat Wrignt me mes . 1tor J D D k an e e a Staff: Pat Condello, Ellen VanDyke,. Debbe Damrell, Stu Ma.rr, Joanne-Malin CONCORDIENSIS is published every Thursday by the student body of Union College, Carnegie Hall, Schenectady, New Yorl~. · 12308; Publications Office: Susquehanna P'u!)lications, Inc., 8 1 z Reynolds Ave., Oneonta, New York 13820, (607) 43~-6737. Entered in the Schenectady Post Office as third class ITAatter. Subscription rate: 35 cents per copy, $10 per year, deliv€red anywhere in the United States. Union Views: Coming Of Age by JIM DAVIS Last weekend saw this reporter paying a visit ta the Boston area. One of the more notable features about Massachusetts, as far as many coUege students there are coiJcerned. is that the state legislature recently-as of April 16-raised the legal drinking age from 18 to 20. 1 spent a night at Holy Cross College in Worcester, about 40 miles west of Boston and, at least there, the new regulations . are being strictly enforced. Proof of age is required for admission into college functions and esta blislilments serving booze. And, contrary to what some people might think, no exceptiOflS are being made. As a result, numerous students there, and presumably elsewhere 1n the state, are· miffed at the ruHn~. More than that, last weekend they were also far more likely to be at a loss for nighttime activities. It's a fact of life, of which Union can serve as a crime example, that most collegfate social functions depend on the flow of beer, wine and other such libations. Take them away, and, at least for a time, students are going to be, as they were at Holy Crass, at a loss for things to do. This isn't to suggest, though, that the stiffer law has l'reated a dearth of nocturnal activities. In fact, with alcoholic spirits removed fer the under-20 crowd-who make up most of the freshman and sophomore classes-these people may find themselves exploring new horizons and meeting more people than they etherwise weuld. The point is that the law seems, to me at least, to do little more than give college students a hard time for the first part of their undergraduate days. In itself, this situation is an interesting piece of trivia, but little ~lse; just make that if you're less than 20-years-old and want to drink that you don't go to Massachusetts. But it hits closer to home because a similar statutory change is being considered in New York. The primary purpose .of this law, it seems, is to deter drinking among high school students and other minors. Continued on page 14 Letter Keep Singing . To- the Editor: Fur some strange r'eas()n that I cannot understand, I have this funny feeling that 1 will not be allowed to speak before this Sundayts Glee Club eoncert. It is with incredible foresight that I write this letter to those patient listeners in tuxedos. We have had an incredible year. For. this., as well a~ your C()operatum and support, I thank all of you. A special tll~k you to Bob, &n,. Dav~. Chip, Eric, Lee, Rob, Bruce, and Tim for making life a bit l:l:l:l$ier this ·year. While I b.ave the elt.an.ce I WQuld also like to thank: l?at and the rest. of the gals for their supj»rt and wish the Union W()men the best of luck as they continue to gr<lW as a spirited group of singers with a keea ear for quality that is mort and more apparent and is an their own. {Come and hear them Sunday). There are . people <m this campus outside the group who truly understand what we are. Thank you LQrrame MarraJ Irma Hamilton, Paul Connors, Karen Wytrwal, Alan NelsQoil., Norman Auburn and Virginia Bush for all that you've dane~ I have no doubt left someone &ut l>y name in my haste w his letter in on time. (No t a bunch of names). I hope that I will be spared the reminders of who I missed. I will think of all of you event11ally. ' ~ .::.pe<.:1a1 aclmowledgment · goes t{) that natural fol.*ce tbat allows one to be born .during a g!ven year. This year's seniQr smgers are the m{)st AWZING •guys, . A very spe.oial thought goes to our very dear Hugh. Amidst all the thankS for taking care of music, (which you ·. sbrmdn't have to do) for teaching us to sing, for staying at Union, et<:. goes a thank: you f-or giving us something special Which we try to Qnderstand and verbalite and ·fail miserably. Tl!(}se things are . bett1;1r left alon:e and should simply be accepted. r:.?t It has been said tbat 1 in my tenure as president, r may have taken things to<! serio~ly. I • 1 :\a~· have talten the glee club · t>.ituatlon too seriQusly. I can ;,ruy sa that this <>rga'flization rpiton~i.;es the spirit on thiS catn,pllb that many are stlll . ai:ritl~SS'l$' . Jo.oking for. As trn:S and' administrators cg11Sta .Y:$u1l over what\to do abont spit'it · anti pride in this institutiol1, we just keep going and growing. 1f there is one hope that I have, it is the hope that thosll:lat Union realize what is at Uni()n.l I could n€>t have wor:ke€1 harder for lk mnre deserving group nf individuals and a mor~ meaningful .idea and at the same ttrne llavt';l a fantasti.'C time, cf.tme away with · rooterl friendsbi~s and have some great m..:lnol.\'ies. · To RE:lb 'amd Tim-Keep it going~ ~md ludt and·· most importantt.Y-KEEP SINGING! Jim Manstracco President Union (Oollege Ments Glee Clah Stuclent Tax Ret.wtial To the Edi~rs: As the ~re-'Vious chainnan .of the Tax fuo:m:rn.ittee (T .c.>~ I a:m accustoned to responding to complaints and dispelling rumors about ttris organi~l\'n's practices. nene WeinerEnan 1 S article, \Student Tax and c:lub-Funding\ was tbe most ext.~nsi'IJ'e coUectinn of fall~cie:s ab~t the t.c. wbicb I have ever- encount-ered. 1 would feel · mible if I did not provide ncordiensis witlt a letter t~ correct the inac.· cura<:iesineluded in her artieie. nene Vieirterrnan r-eferred tG the T.C.f's relations with the Mod~r-n l)ance club .as a paradigm illustrating T .c. '_'PQliC)' . inconslstenctes•• and 1 'adrn~istrative irregttlat\iti\ es'f. However-, . inconsistencies ap..- pear t9 b~ f:ar more prevalent in Ilene's a>1'titJle. than within t' .c. practi<:es. For e:xample, .. ll~ne . cllt'llpl~tneli tllat . the 1971J..79 Motiet11 'Dance budget was Pll~ . through a \. · . . . 400- percent hacking.\ Alth<()ugh the T .c. ·did not acC30tnmO<Iate the club's reque:st f()r a 733 percent in- creasE, th.e $1020 whiCh they recei'V~<l . represented a 10, percent Lnc-rease over th~ previous year 1 S budget. I. for om.~j ~s cltairrnan of the T:C~, did net r~al .. that t.his was un.~uly. harsl:l tt\eatmet\t. ltem aj;)pe8red to be ex· tremely- upset. with the way the T.C, handl~d the Modern Dance cluh'st·!l!quest for a $1200 dance flo()r~ Tbis- is ~rd to understand since: the:' T.C. bas a long . stancting policy of referring requ.ests for capital Jt()Ods · C()sting more than $500 tQ the Planning and Priorities Cornmitt~e. The Modern Dance dub learned of this poli-cy s.'fveral months too late to receiv-e the dance floor as a result of the fact that they submitterl their budget ·request to the T.C. several months too late. While the T.C. did approve renting tllis floor for two dance reeitals 1 this was done with the understanding, that the gate receipts from these events '-\OUld be more than enough to cover too rental cost. One worthy no~ within Ilene'sartiele was trnn the head <lf the M<~dern Dance club should llave been personally informed of the T.G. 's final deCisi<>n. The fact that he was not, represented both a proeed~.ttal error and· an ab- sence of consideration. t accept full responsibility for this ocw eurrence and apol()gize. The decision not- to grant Student ActiVity. funds to Hillel was cited by Ilene as another· example of T .c. inconsistency. This too, is a criticism which is hard .to understand, since the power tc determine which clubs receive funding is vested in the Student Forum., not the Tax Com.:mittee. I am surprised that ilene did not discover this while researebing her article. Ilene went on to note that th~re ~ n(l ~>mechanism for teedhaek or a forum for com- plaints\' nf T .C. decisions. l am afraid that this assertion refleds absolute ignorance of T .C. procedures. All c.rganizations which are displeased with T .C. decisions • have the option to present an appeal before the Student Forum. In fact, two organizations resorted to this action during the fall term of 19'18. Ueneposited that in the ·past the 'l'.C. has been run 'like 'a die ... tatorship. In two out of three of the three fiscal _years prior to my cludrmanship~ the ·T.C. over~allocated funds. Thus, I believe the term anarchy is far more appropriate · than dic- tatorship, in describing how the T.C. operated in the past. The budgets for the fiscal year prepared during my tenure as T.C. chairman, doll()t appear to be in any danger of causing the problems s.een in past years. However, my assistant chairman, Mike Brand, was recently quoted to say that the T .C. was \run like a die .. tatorsbip. n 1 can only respOnd by saying that if be believed this to have been the case, he should hav-e taken action as assistant chairman to remedy this situation. At minimum, he should have informed me of his f¢elings. I W()uld hope that Mike iS not trying to attribute his ineffectual performance as &;sistant cha:dman to a con· dition he had never spoke of in the past. · I hope that future Can· cordiensis .articles wm make a better effort to asc~ain the facts of their stQry. Respectfully yours, AlanS. Rutkin cc: Mike Brand llene Welnerman Alarming Situation 'I'o The CQttduct Ombudsman .. Committee Last term, a new policy concerning fire· alarms· in dorms was instituted here at the :school. Basically; the policy calls fo-r fining the resit!ents of a given floor- on ich a false a~~ has'* or· ted. In ·· my. -()pnuon, such a system has ()Ue basic fanlt·.;you cannot le~itimately fine everyone on a flo(lr for an :atarm that took place while some people were home for a weekend, in the libiary, or anyplace but in- the dorm. Obviously, M type of at- tendance can be taken-it just isn't feasible. The nnly oth~r alternative\ as I see it. is to abolish the present system until a better one can be found. . In aU fairness to the condu.ct e()l'nmitteei however, I think it is important to. bring out the reas~ning. behind the new t»licy.1'he intentions. were good one~/in tba.t it was designed to get· people so angry about paying fines t-bat they would start watching for people who set <tff the alarms and start turning them in. Logically; though, is it possible for me tG see· who sets off an alarm when I'm home for a weekend? Jonathan Green '82 ··---- .......... -. ~r / \_\ ;· . I ' .. ..___ ------· . ,. l I . I . I ·, : i 'I ' A by PI Inther you wan1 grounds weather, new pla from Ad House, ~ fountain These I projects enhance tractivE College; a speci where a~ a larger howeve1 concen membe commu~ The Jacksar sponsor senior( plans t fellow circula~ .fountai1 below · den. W walk c Kappa with surrow project Comm perhap Anothe this fot wishin can pa done rnorniJ weeke will in~ welcox but OJ: will a dig gin more projec restft Jacks· The GardE which its be half. 1830's mush scapi1 rest recei comp Th« the 1< were camJ elms centt they were their elm Sche elml dest Willi Harl ever: mos· attr devE by s cont syst sca1 Tl 1962 thex pro: plaJ al01 Smi T

OONOORDIENSISJ May :3,--19\19 Page 3 A Fa.celift- For Union by PEGGY O'ROURKE In the nelCt, couplepf weeks, as you wander around the campus grounds in the balmy sp.;ing weather, you Will encounter new plantings along tbc:f road from AdministrJition to Lamont House~ and also a pool with a fountain in Jacksof\'s Gardens. These new surroundings are. projects undertaken this year to enhance and maintain the-_at\ tractiveness of the Union College ground~. The fountain is a special proJec-t this year, whereas the pbmt~g is a part of a larger, ongoing project Both, · however, . a:re _the ·results of ·concerned and ·dedicated members of t·he campus community. The fountain planned for JaCkson'sGardensis a student sponsored · project headed by · senior Cllris Cameron. Whatshe plans to do, with ·the aid of fellow students, Is to build a circular concrete pool with a fountain on the terrace just below the Robison Herb Gar- den. When .completed, on~ will walk down the steps by the Kappa Alpha gate to be faced with a fountain and a surrounding flower bed. This project will be completed by Commencement tbis year, and perhaps even the end of May. Another interesting aspect of this fountain is that any student wishing to help make it happen can participate. Digging will be done from 10:00 · Saturday morning till sunset the second weekend in May. Any one willing to take a two hour shift is welcomed with slightly dirty but open arms. A keg of beer will also. be there to aid the digging. Ms. Cameron hopes more students will join the proj.ect and help create another restful, appealing spot in Jackson's Gardens. The project in Jackson's Gat•denswill add to the garden which has been well known for its beauty for a century and a half. Since its creation in the 1830's the garden has received mush attention to its land- scaping and avpearance. The rest of the campus grol)llds received· little attention by comparison, however. The first efforts to beautify the large remainder of campus were to line the principle campus roads with American elms in the late nineteenth ceHtury. U nfortlUlately, just as they reached their peak, and were crownjng the,camt,us with their leafy shade, the dutch :elm idisease arrived in Schenectady in the 50's. As the elms were progressively destroyed, Professors C. William Huntley and H. Gilbert Harlow realized the loss would eventually strip the campus of most of its trees, and hence its attractiveness. Thus they developed a program, financed by special funds and individUal contributions, to. coordinate a . systematic, area by area land- scape pFogram~ This program was initiated in 1962 and since then, each year,, tqere has been a landscaping project. Th~ year it is. the . planting of trees and shrubbery along the new road that runs by Smith Ho~e up to East Lane -Winners for B/oodmob:ile Delta Chi DeJta Gamma·~. & Theta Delta. Chi next to Lamont House. Also involved in the project is the improvement of the back of _Wells House. Since most people enter Wells House by its rear entrance, it was decided to move the parking lot and make it the ;front e11trance. New doorways, . benches and shrubbery are au a part of the plan to rnake Wells ijouse a / more at~taeUve part of campus · surroundings. With this new road, new plantings, and- a renovated Wells House, a walk-:;;:, down theSouth Entry Road will · become a vmrthwhile endeavor. Provost Huntley. revealed . that this project; and the ones in the past.and future are designed to eventually isolate the cam!)us with greenery, Union College's 100 acres are in the middle of a city and tbe planting of these acres with trees and shrt bs will de-emphasize1his feature o.£the college. 'I'he work o£ both the students. in Jackson's Garden's with their special project, and · the work of Professors Huntley and Harlow in their ongoing project aid this long run goal of a green, inviting campus, in a city.. It should: be stated that much has already been done· to beautify the ·campus as will be witnessed this spring in the gardens on ·campus, the 500 flowering trees ab.out the ground$, the ~wildlife and its appearance as a whole. The new fountain and plantings shall ·enhance this already existing beauty on campus and the enjoyment of that beauty by the members of the Union College community. If you are interested iii the fountair project in .Jackson's Gardenscan Chris Cameron at · 382-9205 or Peter Pearre at 382- 8673, A fountain tor the Garden. ' Current EPC News by STEVE GRILL and DEEB.E DAMRELL The Educational Policy Committee (EPC) met on Thursday, April26. The topic of discussion was a proposed new music curriculum. This curriculum. was submitted to EPC for review, by Professor Bush, Chairperson of the Arts Department. The main points of the proposal are: 1) The addition of . two more required courses, making a total· of 17 .for the major, 2) The availability of three areas of concentration (Theory, Composition. and Music Literature), 3) Requiring two full years (6 courses) in theory, 4) The addition of several new courses to the departmental offerings. The proposal states tbat ·.. . . . the present faculty mmusic can handle the, new curriculum next year within present course loads :: -:,\ and in \ . . . sutr sequent years the additional courses lllay be h~ndled on an independent study basis since the rnembers.(students) will be small, illitially. If the numbers become substantial enough there would be a need for ad- ditional adj,unct or regular faculty.\ The proposal further in- dicates that \The curriculum is admittedly highly structured and sequenced, but it is possible for a student to start a major in the sophomore year . . . \ Professor Wilson of the Arts Depart men', and also a member of EPC. described the proposal as .. . . . broad and Conduct ,Committee Formed For . PHC rigorous ... \ and stated that if there is a chance for Union College to attract students interested. in the arts, \ . • . this is it.\ The entire program will be stiffer than those at schools such as Smith and Williams, he said. -In contrast to them, however, he indicated that the program would not be the \conservatory-type.\. Wilson went on to state that \ . . . there are certain very basic techniques which should be had by musicians. •' In the past some rudimentary courses have been offered at Union which may be handled differently (i.e., made non-credit courses) . He said that these basic skills are usually not taught until the college level and that they are necessary for anyone pursuing a career in music; as a per- former or composer as well as an historian or analyst. Dean of Faculty Brownlee questioned how non-majors would be able to take part in this curriculum. Professor Wilson responded that although it may be difficult for them to take certain courses due to prerequisites, the Arts Department is not trying to discourage students of other disciplines from participating in the program. Instead, it is intended that these students will receive a better music education. ' by PAM RYAN The Interfraternity Council (renarnedthus after a time as the Pan-Hellenic Council) recently issued a new <::on- stitution and set of by•laws (as yet p~nding ratification). These by-laws provide for the establishment\ of a Council Conduct Corrunittee of the. IFC '\to discipline its members and to recommend diScipline to the . appropriate body for frater- njties·sororiti·es that violate (the College's) rules.\ The Comtnitlee will deal with incidents stemming from group behavior, rather than violations by individual fraternity or sorority members. The by-laws define group Greek behavior as \any charge(s) directed towards a house as a unit or any other matters referred to the Council Conduct Committee by the College.'' Besides having jurisdiction over group Greek violation of College rules, the Committee is also responsible for dealing with violations of rush tllles and violations of the Constitution or by-laws of the IFC itself .. The Assistant Dean of Stlldents will determine whether the· IFC Committee or the Conduct-Ombudsman Committee will have jurisdiction in each case. · The Committee will review the matter in question and '· make r.ecommendations to the appropriate body as to what di$ciplinary action, if any, should be taken. The ap- propriate judiciary body to deal with the charge, be it the Conduct-Ombudsman Com- mittee, the Dean of Students, the . IFC Conduct Committee itself, or some other group, will be detennined by the Assistant Dean of Students, a non-voting member of the Council Conduct Committee. Voting members of the Committee include the IFC President a·nd Vice-President and three other IFC members, who must be either sophomores or juniors, who are elected to the Committee. The Committee also has the power to penalize - any IFC member who defies or disregards the ruliJig of the Committee, with punishments ranging from a fine to suspension from the IFC, depending Dn the severity of the violation .. All students have the right to appeal any decision to the Student Life Committee. According to Dean of Students Robert Kellett, the Conduct Committee is \an attempt by the IFC to take a responsible stance in terms of self- regulation.\ It allows the Greek system to determine internally what qualifies as group Greek misconduct and recommend lf and what disciplinary action should be taken. This is a source of controversy, however. as some people feel that this gives the fraternity-sorority system too much autonomy and makes them less accolUltab!e to ex- ternal .bodies. The idel! of a separate Con- duct Committee to deal with group actions was recom- mended by Assistant Dean of Students Joe Zolner. He felt that there was not an appropriate mechanism for dealing with group conduct, as the Conduct- Ombudsman Conunittee is not structured to handle such problems. He feels that the IFC Comrriittee is supplementary to the Conduct-Ombudsman Committee rather than in- dependent of it. Cases reviewed by the IFC Committee's recommendations, go to the Conduct-Ombudsman Com· mittee for further action. Zolnerfeels that the idea of an internal body to deal with \group Greek actions and violations of the rules of the IFC itself is good because he feels that the Greek system should \clean· up its own act.\ He feels that it will also serve to help the inlage of the fraternity-sorority system by proving that the IFC is willing to take responsibility . for the regulation and discipline of its members. As the bylaws state, \The Council recognizes the rules and regulations set by the College'\ an~ feels that it should take the responsibility ''to discipline its members and to recommend discipline to the appropriate body for (those) that violate these rules.\ Hi Mom &\ Dad!! Brownlee then questioned whether students currently enrolled in arts curriculums have been approached as to their opinions on the proposed changes. She is concerned about turning away any of the \built- in clientele\ who may be per- fectly satisfied with the curriculum as it stands. Wilson responr\ed that few students had been contacted, but that he would solicit input in the future from them. He added that he did not feel that the situation Brownlee described would pose much of a problem; Next, Professor Hull of the Chemistry De par tin en t, questioned the philosophy and Q!rection of the program: will it be· geared toward the professional musician, and if so how will the gifted amateur (who may not intend to pursue an occupation in music) fit in? In answer, Professor Wilson said that although the program will be geared more strongly to the professionally-ohentep, it will also \ ... take care \ of the gifted amateur . Wilson added that anyone striving to go to graduate school in music will · be as well prepared as anyone in the country. The only drawback to a student pursuing a music education at Union is tbe lack of an abundance of cultural ac- tivities at:tbe College and in the surrounding communities, he said. Prior to the conclusion of the meeting, Hull requested that· the mechanism by which a noll- major may participate in this program be specified in the proposal. . ~ ,.:.. . ' ... -.. ·-

I I ! l CONCORDIENSIS, May 3_, 19\19 Page 3 A Facelift For Unio,n • '-\\i l by PEGGY O'ROURKE In the next couple of weeks, as you wander around the campus grounds in the balmy spring weather, you will encounter new plantings along th~ road from Administration to Lamont House, and also a P<>Ol with a f<mntain in Jackson's Gardens. These new surroundings are. projects undertaken this year to enhance and maintain the at- tractiveness of the Union College grounds;- The fountain is a special project this year, whereas the planting is a part of a larger, ongoing project. Both, however, are the results of concerned and cledicated members of the campus community. The fountain planned for Jackson's Gardens is a student sponsored project headed by senior Cbris Cameron. What she plans to do, with the aid of fellow students, is to build a circular concrete pool with a fountain on the terrace just below the Robison Herb Gar- den. When completed, one will walk down the steps by the Kappa Alpha gate to be faced with a fountain and a surrounding flower bed. This project will be completed by Commencement this year, and perhaps even the end of May. Another interesting aspect of this fountain is that any student wishing to help make it happen can participate. Digging will be done from 10:00 Saturday morning till sunset the second weekend in May. Anyone willing to take a two hour shift is welcomed with slightly dirty but open arms. A keg of beer will also be there to aid the digging. Ms. Cameron hopes more students will join the project and help create another restful, appealing spot in Jackson's Gardens. The project in Jackson's Gardenswill add to the garden which has been well known for its beauty for a century and a half. Since its creation in the 1830's the garden has received mush attention to its land- scaping and appearance. The rest of the campus grounds received little attention by comparison, however. The first efforts to beautify the large remainder of campus were to line the principle campus roads with American elms in the late nineteenth century. Unfortunately, just as they reached their peak, and were crowning the cam{JUS with their leafy shade, the dutch :elm :disease arrived in Schenectady in the 50's. As the elms were progressive1y destroyed, Professors C. William Huntley and H. Gilbert Harlow realized the loss would eventually strip the campus of most of its trees, and hence its attractiveness. Thus they developed a program, financed by special funds and individual contributions, to coordinate a systematic, area by area land- scape program. This program was initiated in 1962 and since then, each year, there has been a landscaping project. Thi.$. year it is the planting of trees and shrubbery along the new road that runs by Smith House up to East Lane . Winners for Bloodmobile Delta Chi Delta Gamma & Theta Delta Chi next to Lamont House. Also involved in the project is the improvement of the back of Wells House. Since most people enter Wells House by its rear entrance, it was decided to move the parking lot and make it the front entrance. New doorways, benches and shrubbery are aU a part of the plan to make Wells House a more attractive part of campus surroundings. With this new road, new plantings, and a renovated Wells Heuse, a walk down the South Entry Road will become a worthwhile endeavor. Provost Huntley revealed that this project, and the ones in the past and future are designed to eventually isolate the campus with greenery. Union College's 100 acres are in the middle of a city and the planting of these acres with trees and shrt bs will de-emphasize this feature of. the college. The work of both the students in Jackson's Gardens with their special project, and the work of Professors Huntley and Harlow in their ongoing project aid this long run goal of a green, inviting campus, in a city. It should be stated that much has already been done to beautify the campus as will be witnessed this spring in the gardens on campus, the 500 flowering trees about the grounds, the ,wildlife and its appearance as a whole. The new fountain and plantings shall enhance this already existing beauty on campus and the enjoyment of that beauty by the members of the Union College community. If you are interested in the fountair project in Jackson's Garden.:;<:all Chris Cameron at 382-9205 or Peter Pearre at 382- 8673. A fountain for the Garden. Current EPC News by STEVE GRILl.. and DEB BE DAMRELL The Educational Policy Committee (EPC) Inet on Thursday, April26. The topic of discussion was a proposed new music curriculum. This curricullllll was submitted to EPC for review, by Professor Bush, Chairperson of the Arts Department. The main points of the proposal are: 1 ) The addition of two more required courses, making a total of 17 for the major, 2) The a-vailability of three areas of concentration (Theory, Composition, and Music Literature), 3) Requiring two full years (6 courses) in theory, 4) The addition of several new courses to the departmental offerings. The proposal states that '' ... the present faculty in music can handle the new curriculum next year within present course loads . . :, \ and in \ . . . sub- sequent years the additional courses may be handled on an independent study basis since the members (students) will be small, initially_ If the nwnbers become substantial enough there would be a need for ad- ditional adjunct or regular faculty.\ The proposal further in- dicates that \The curriculum is admittedly highly structured and sequenced, but it is possible for a student to start a major in the sophomore year . . . \ Professor Wilson of the Arts Department, and also a member of EPC, described the proposal lis ·· . . . broad and Conduct Committee Formed For PHC rigorous ... \ and stated that if there is a chance for Union College to attract students interested in the arts, \ ... this is it.' ' The entire program will be stiffer than those at schools such as Smith and Williams, he said. In contrast to them, however, he indicated that the program would not be the \conservatory-type.\ Wilson went on to state that \ ... there are certain very basic techniques which should be had by musicians.\ In the past some rudimentary courses have been offered at Union which may be handled differently (i.e., made non-credit courses). He said that these basic skills are usually not taught until the college level and that they are necessary for anyone pursuing a career in music; as a per- former or composer as well as an rustorian or analyst. Dean of Faculty Brownlee questioned how non-majors would be able to take part in this curriculum. Professor Wilson responded that although it may be difficult for them to take certain courses due to prerequisites, the Arts DepCJrtment is not trying to disc()urage students of other disciplines from participating in the program. Instead, it is inte11ded that these students will receive a better music education. by PAM RYAN The Interfraternity Council (renamed thus after a time as the Pan-Hellenic Council) recently issued a new con- stitution and set of by-laws (as yet pending ratification). These by-laws provide for the establishment\ of a Council Conduct Committee of the IFC \to discipline its members and to recommend discipline to the appropriate body for frater- nities-sororities that violate (the College's) rules.\ The Committee will deal with incidents stemming from group behavior, rather than violations by individual fraternity or sorority members. The by-laws define group Greek behavior as \any charge(s) directed towards a house as a unit or any other matters referred to the Council Conduct Committee by the College.\ Besides having jurisdiction over group Greek violation of College rules, the Conunittee is also responsible for dealing with violations of rush rules and violations of the Constitution or by-laws of the IFC itself. The Assistant Dean of Students will determine whether the IFC Conunittee or the Conduct-Ombudsman Committee will have jurisdiction in each case. · The Committee will review the matter in Question and make recommendations to the appropriate body as to what disciplinary action, if any, should be taken. The ap- propriate judiciary body to deal with the charge, be it the Conduct-Ombudsman Com- mittee, the Dean of Students, the IFC Conduct Committee itself, or some other group, will be detennined by the Assistant Dean of Students, a non-voting member of the Council Conduct Committee. Voting members of the Committee inc! ude the IFC President and Vice-President and three other IFC members, who must be either sophomores or juniors, who are elected to the Committee. The Conunittee also has the power to penalize any IFC member who defies or disregards the ruling of the Committee, with punishments ranging from a fine to suspension from the IFC, depending on the severity of the violation. All students have the right to appeal any decision to the Student Life CQm:mittee. According to Dean of Students Robert Kellett, the Conduct Committee is ''an attempt by the we to take a responsible stance in terms of self- regulation.\ It allows the Greek system to determine internally what qualifies as group Greek misconduct and recommend if and what disciplinary action should be taken. This is a source of controversy, however, as some people feel that this gives the fraternity-sorority system too much autonomy and makes them less accountable to ex- ternal bodies. The idea of a separate Con- duct Committee to deal with group actions was recom- mended by Assistant Dean of Students Joe Zolner. He felt that there was not an appropriate mechanism for dealing with group conduct, as the Conduct- Ombudsman Conunittee is not structured to handle such problems. He feels that the IFC Collliriiftee is supplementary to the Conduct-Ombudsman Committee rather than in- dependent of it. Cases reviewed by the IFC Committee's recommendations, go to the Conduct-Ombudsman Com- mittee for further action. Zolner feels that the idea of an internal body to deal with \group Greek actions and violations ofthe rules of the IFC itself is good because he feels that the Greek system should \clean up its own act.\ He feels that it will also serve to help the image of the fraternity-sorority system by proving that the IFC is willing to take responsibility for the regulation and discipline of its members. As the bylaws state, ''The Council recognizes the rules and regulations set by the College\ and feels that it should take the responsibility \to discipline its members and to recommend discipline to the appropriate body for (those) that violate these rules., Hi Mom & Dad!! Brownlee then questioned whether students currently enrolled in arts curriculums have been approached as to their opinions on the proposed changes. She is concerned about turning away any of the \built- in clientele\ who may be per- fectly satisfied with the curriculum as it stands. Wilson responrled that few students had been contacted, but that he would solicit input in the future from them. He added that he did not feel that the situation Brownlee described would pose much of a problem. Next, Professor Hull of the Chemistry Department, questioned the philosophy and d!rection of the program: will it be geared toward the prdessional musician, and if so h<rw will the gifted amateur (who may not intend to pursue an occupation in music) fit in? In answer, Professor Wilson said that although the program will be geared more strongly to the professionally-ohente9, it will also \ ... take care \ of the gifted amateur. Wilson added that anyone striving to go to graduate school in music will be as well prepared as anyone in the country. The only drawback to a student pursuing a music education at Union is the lack of aJ1 abundance of cultural ac- tivities at the College and in the s11rrounding communities, he S<lid. Prior to the conclusion of the meeting, Hull requested that tlle mechanism by which a non- major may participate in this program be specified in the proposal.

~·~·.:~~ '-~~~t1: ·~:·~·.~··/~:;,·.~-,~~-~~;~~\ -,,/,_~~-~ . .. ':- - ·. _. ·.... . .. ....... •. ~t.. Page 4 OONCORDIENSIS, ¥ay 3, 1979 art6 ulture Union Theater Presents: Ten Little Indians .. Have you ever had the feeling that someone is follo.wing you as you stumble across the library field after happy hour at the pub? Ever worder about that ·buzzing noise in the all-niglit study'? Does Chester Arthur seem to have moved since the last tilne you noticed him? If you ever have experienced any of the above, if you feel the urge to inv.estigate, or if any n1ystery intrigues you, then the Nott is the place to be for Agatha Christie's tantalizing murder mystery, Ten Little Indians. Ten pe()ple are .brought tog~ther on an island for a brief holiday. The terror begins When, one by one, each guest dies unaccountably. Murder perhaps? if suspen~e or the n1ere threaJ of it gives . you deliciously frightening goose- bumps then get yourself over to the Nott for the performance of Ten Little Indians. Even if you still have -use a night-light, just as!,{ a ;brave friend to ac- company you. Either way, make sure that you don't miss Ten Little Indians. Per· formances are May 9 through 13. Tickets goon sale at the Nott Memorial box office Friday, May 4 from 1 p.m. to 5 p.m. Don't miss this chilling theatre Ca$t rehearses \Ten Little Indians\ I Film As Art 'by DAVID GOSS out that these early American films were by no means inferior Murder and suspense in \Ten Little Indians.\ experience! · \It is inevitable that students will 'eventually wake up to realize the significance of cinema as a lilajor art form .... part , of a Liberal Arts . to modern f.ilms in terms of the skill evident 'in their produf:tion. In fact, these. films were im portant because they were innovative in technique. education.\ So concluded Dr. David E. Nye, Assistant Union Is All Jazzed Up Professor of American Studies. and Director (){ the Inter- departmental Program in American Stuc:lh~s, in a recent interview witl:l Concordy. byDAVE SCINTO A Union Col!ege Bible? In the beginning God created Hugh Allen Wilson .. Soon the Union College Glee Club (both men's and women's) came to exist. For a long time they dominated the musical per· fonnances on campus. Sud· denly, .(some contend from nowhere) there appeared another collection of musicians. Though somewhat smaller, they pr()duced a big sound. Their beats were mesmerizing, their riffs catchy, their tunes more familiar. Curious people came to see them play and were soon caught up in the revelry of their music. Many seton found themselves dancing in the hallowed halts of Memorial Chapel; a seemingly almost :.acreligious act, but the music had overcome their conscious. Sound like fun? This is no fairy tale, but the truth (stretched perhaps a bit). The rebel musicians call themselves the Union Jazz Ensemble, a twenty-three man collecaon of jazz ·fanatics who happen to be pretty damn good. Their repertoire is extensive including all forms of music by such composers as Charlie Parker, Dizzy Gillespie, Frank Zappa, anc Chuck Mangione. The band is noted for their 1 ntense desire to ··have a good time, Vlherever they may be, in rehearsal or on stage. The band is a cobesive unit that exudes an jnfectious warmth that often ~pills over to the audience. Their looseness makes hard work easier. The concerts are often well rehearsed but the spontenaeity of the presentation makes an ex:cellant, enjoyable concert for both audience and performers. On the top of this heap is Fred (Fred Fred the Dancing Head) Berkowitz. He directs the band and is largely responsible for the performance of the groap. As for the rest of the personnel: the rhythem .section under the leadership of keyboard an Chuck Katz is comprised f: Tom Goldstein and Steve Mar h on drums and petcussion, Pa 1 Sabatino on bass, and Pet (garcia) Lindholm. on. guitar\ The trumpet sectlo~ 1s led by, John Samuelian and is filled out by John Sciortino, Adam Arfa, John Lee, Barry DeBernardo, Cliff (clone) Cohen, and Sammy Lee Rockwell, who also plays flugelhorn; Beneath them are the trombones under leader Tom Nalli. This section includes Kathy Keville on french horn, Andy McNutt, John Stevenson, and Brad Fisher on bass bone. Wailing away up in front view are the saxophones. Joe Nalli directs this section which in- cludes Nancy Tubbs on alto saxophone, flute, and baritone, Jeff Rusik on the alto and clarinet, Jeff Amado on the alto and baritone, Steve Lerner on alto, Cheryl Fitzgerald on tenor, and Dave Scinto on tenor and soprano. The UJE has a rich and varied history. Three years ago the band was no more than a thouf:(bt in the mind of pre-med PaufStefek ('77). Along with a concert per term in Memorial Chapel, U JE has also played for street festivals, off-campus dances, fraternity parties, Fitz Hugh Ludlow day, and parent's Weekend (taking a place for- merly occupied by Buddy Rich and his band). Recently they were invited to a Jazz Festival to compete against nationally known bands, some of whom can boast alumni like Stanley Clarke (honest). \Great Films of the 1930's\ is . the theme ()£• this term's American Studies Film Series, whicQ. is a continuation of the winter term SEries. Asked why he first considered offering such a series, Professor Nye com- mented, \I j11st felt that there was other good cinema .. .'' . besides the contemporary films offeredl ·by the Film Com- mittee. Professor l'r ye went on to say that it was this recognition of alternatives which motivated hiJ:n to provide some addition to If you missed any of these the traditional type of f.ilni ·opportunities to hear good · shown at Union. Next fall, he ·music and have a- good time,.· · plans to sho-w films such as relax. UJE will perform again westerns or films from the before the end of spring. So 1940's which, like the American c'mon out and have a great time Studies films being shown this and hear the U-nion Jazz' term, share a specific genre or Ensemble. It's always free so revolve around a certain theme~ the price is right. When you do Pointing to its historic come, y()u 'might bring some significance, Nye notes that eggs 'cause this . band cinema started ' mainly in COO,KS! ! ! (Dancing in the ailes America and France and \grew 'is definitely permitted). up in this country.\ Nye points Wolf Plays Beethoven Kenneth Wolf, who is botr a scientist and pianist, will give a recital in Room 202 of the arts building at 8 p.m. Thursday, May 3. Admission is free. Wolf will perform Beethoven's Sonatas in D Major, Op. 28; in A Major, Op. 101; and in C Major, Op. 53. A Cleveland, Ohio native, Camp Unio.n •79 Saturday, May 26 12:00 .. 7:00 p.m. Beer B-B-Q Munchies Live Entertainment All. DCiy Highlights: ·j Livingston Taylor .2: 00-4: 00 p.m: Joe Jackson 8:30p.m. (Memorial Chapel) If you'd like to help out in any way,contact Peggy Fonte (370- ·6866) .If you'd like to perform, contact Lisa Heitner (370-6627) Any and all help. will be appreciated. ... ,. Wolf was tut()red privately until the age of 10, when he entered Western Reserve University as a college freshman. He later transfered t() Yale University, from whichhe was graduated at the age of 14. He later graduated from Western Reserve's School of Medicine, and has. continued to pursue careers both in music and science. ' He is now /professor of anatomy and neurology at the University of Massachusetts Medical School, and is a nationally respected known teacher of brain anatomy. He has' continued to appear professionally as piano soloist and chamber musician, and also plays harpsochord .and organ. · At Yale, he studied with the composer Hindemith and with • pianist Artllur Scluiabel. For morE information ,about his perf()rmance at here, / contact the arts department at 37~201. ' Today, · as an art form, cinema is recognized academically by many large universities in the U.S. through formal programs. But at Union, we have no such acad.emic program? In practicality, would it be feasible to have such a prograin. With an Arts Center under consideration for Union's future, there is certainly much hope for such a program. But what about on the short-term side? Although 1 there are several departments within . the Humanities, and , Social Sciences which· could logically accommodate such a program, one area contains ·the · seeds which could make such a program viable. The \World Literature and Film\ portion of the English department currently offers two film courses: \Film as Fictive Art\ and \Emergence of the Artist.\ If a program in film ap- preciation were to 'develop at Union, this would be a logical place for it to begin. · As Professor Nye obset:ves, \it is not a question as to whether' Union will ever have a full-time person in the area of . film; but, it is when it will happen. The reason for this is simple enough: film is a major part of people's lives. Film ·appreciation - knowing what to rook for in a film or why a good film was good - is a basic part of a Liberal Arts education.\ There are still three films left in the American Studies series this spring. They are: Maltese Falcon (1941) with Humphrey Bogart, Mary Astor, Peter Loree, Sidney Greenstreet, and' more - May 9; The Secret Agent (1936), a classic Alfred Hitchcock film - May 16; and The 39 Steps (1935), an even more well-known Hitchcock potpourri of mm;der, suspense, romance, and comedy- May 23.\ All films are at 7:30 in SS016. Any- students interested in helping to run the Series next year should contact Profess()r Nye in the American Studies department on the second floor of the Humanities building. This is a great chance to select the type of films you would like to see. Possible themes for the films are: cities, documen- taries, comedies, ... you name it. If you missed the Marx Brothers' witty slapstick comedy, Duck Soup, last night, make sure that you don't miss the remainder of the film series this term. The Wednesday films are fully subsidiZed by the American Studies departlllent. ,. Cl Gul ...... c Fo1 peopl dragl · nearl to a 1 erecl so ph preh simp and 1 also pred illus1 Ging skep sit~s B~it vest astr Gin1 Astr Scie will \St Obs~ the 8:00 01 his astt Smi Obs resE fror an ma1 ter1 ultr aut I - ~ thE Ru re1 Co fa1 fiv an Ar ar, all c( AI Cl; PI ac de th rn ar y~ c~ cc p p aJ b f~ Sl E

·-:: OONOORDIENSIS .. May 3, 1979 ' Guest Lecturer: Gingerich /To· Speak Four thousand yel:lrs ago the people of a now:.lost culture dragged 75 immense megaliths standard illodeis for the solar atmosphere, the first to take intoaccountrocket and satellite ol:!servations of the S'lin. Commission on the History Qf Astronomy, and a term as council or of the American Astronomical Society. He is a member of the American Philosophical Society and the American Academy of Arts and Sciences. Besides over 100· technical articles and reviews, Professor Gingerich has written more Continued on page 13 Page 5 . nearly 20 back-breaking miles to a wind-swept site where they erected one of the most sophisticated monuments of prehistqry. Was· Sto)lehenge simply an impreSSive cultural and religioUs center? Or was it also an o6servatory, capabie of predicting eclipses? ln a well- illustrated lecture, Prpfessor Gingerich will take a rather skeptical look at a dozen ancient sites in EnglanQ_, Scotland, and Brittany, }oo~ing for silent In recent years Gingerich has become a leading authority on the 17th~century German astronomer Johannes Kepler and on Nicbol~s Copernicus, the 16th-()entury cosmologist who .proposed the heliocentric system. · ·The Harvard astronomer has undertaken a per,sonal survey of Copernicus· great book De Rev~lutionibus, and as a result of an overseas research leave last year, he has now seen well over 400 16th- - century ~opies in libraries scattered throughout Europe and North America. His an- notated census of these books will be published as a 600-page monograph by the Polish Academy· of Sciences. Glee Club's Spring Tour vestig·es of stone age astronomy. . . Dr. Owen Gingerich, Prof~ssor of Astri:momy and of the History of Science at Harvard University, will ~peak on the topic \Stonehenge: Megalithic Observatory?\ in room 016 of the Social Sciences Building at 8:00p.m. on Friday, May 4. Owen Gingerich is, along with his professorship, an astrophysiCist at the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory in Cambridge. His research interests have ranged from the recomputation of ·an ancient Babylonian mathematical tabie to tbe in- terpretation of .the solar ultraviolet spectrum. He is co- author of · two successive Boote Review: Not all of his btstorical researches concentrate on the Renaissance. This winter the Harvard University Press will publish · the Source. Book in 'Twentieth•Century Astronomy and Astrophysics, which he has co-edited. And currently he is editing the 20th-Century volume of the International Astronomical Union's General History uf Astronomy. Gingerich has completed two term:s as President of the IAU's A Com.poser's Memoir by SERGI PROKOFIEV Sergi Prokofiev was born in the Ekaterinoslav region . 'of Russia. He entered the renowned St. . Petetsburg Conservatory in 1904, and won fame at the early age of twenty- fiv~ with his Scythian Suites, and the Classical Symphony. Among his most famous works are Peter and the Wolf, Romeo and Juliet, the 3rd Piano Concerto, and the cantata Alexander Nevsky. Throughout his memorable career, . Prokofiev followed his mother's advice: \Sergushechka write down everything that passes through your little head. Don't miss a thing. Don't skip anything.\ Prokofiev became, over the years, an obsessive diarist and complusive _collector of correspondence. ·The resUlt is PROKOFIEV BY PROKOFIEV, a memoir ofthe artist's early years; from his birth in 1891 to his years at the famous St. Petersburg Con- servatory under the tutelage of Ri,msky·Korsakov, Lyagpv · and Glazunov. Here is an un- matched picture of a Russia that vanished with the Revolution, both the calm rural life of the Russiall Ukraine and the brilliance and sophistication of St. Petersburg. Pne hundred and twenty-eight musical fragments, most of them in Prokofiev·•s own hand, and eighty-six photographs from his personal collection are two additional features of this notable book. The musical notation provides an intimate view of Prokofiev's growth as a musician, from his break with musical tradition at the Con- servatory. The photographs give. us a unique look at Prokofiev's life and the Russia in Which he grew up. Filled with Prokofiev's sense of humor, strong ego and shrewdness of observation, PROKOFIEV BY PROKOFIEV is a marvellously textured portrait for all devotees of music and autobiography. PUBLICATION DATE: May 18, 1979 .P1\GES: 384 PRICE: $14.00 011, God·! May 4, s., 6 Fri. 10 p.m. $at. and Sun. 7, 9, 11 p.m. -· $1.25 ' 55016 I On Friday, March 23, while neatly all of the Union students were already enjoying their Spring Recess, the members of the Union College .Men's Glee Club returned to the campus - if they indeed had left in the first place- for two days ofrehearsal preceding Spring Tour '79. DestmatioQ: Washington, D.C. Spring Tour '79 officially started on Sunday, March 25, when the Wade Tours charter bus drove away from Memorial Chapel and headed for Rutgers State University in New Brunswick, New Jersey. After a tong ride, the Glee Club arrived at the Douglass College Campus of Rutgers, whereupon it was greeted by the women of the Douglass College Glee Club. The first concert of the tour was with the Douglass Glee Club on Monday evening, March 26, in the Kirkpatrick Chapel. The Union men led off with a now very popular Schubert group, Antoine Brumel's \Mater Patris et Filia,\ and some madrigals by Morley, Weelkes, and Ban- chieri. The Douglass women followed with works by di Lasso ~nd Palestrina, performed a Bartok group, and sang \~Eternity'' by Wallingford Rieger. The Concert ended after a combined performance of Britten's \Rejoice in the Lamb.\ , Not long after the concert, the Union Glee Club transferred its luggage to the horne of the Queens Chorale, also of Forbidden Planet Producer: Nicholas Nayfack Director: Fred W. Wilcox .Tues. May 8 $.75 55016 9:30 & 11:15· p.m. Tirnes changed due to a lecture. Rutgers. This is the same group that previously in the Winter Term performed with the Union men in Memorial Chapel. The second concert was held Tuesday evening, March 27, again at Kirkpatrick Chapel. Union sang a program similar to the previous February concert, hut the Queens Chorale altered its progr~m to include works by des Prez, Randall Thompson, Claude Debussy, Kodaly, and Schildkret. The concert closed with a joint performance of Handel's \Zadok the Priest\. WedneSday morning, March 28, the Union Glee Club departed early for Frederick, Marjland - home of Hood College. The third concert was held that night in the Chapel there. Union sang the Queens progtam, while the Hood College Chorale offered a Brah- ms group, a Schubert group, and other pieces by Mozart, Hilton, Cornysh, and Morley. The following morning, March 29, the Glee Club travelled to the Gilman School in .Baltimore, Maryland. The Gilman Scllool i_s a popular private day school. After an afternoon concert featuring various selections sung on the tour plus two encore pieces, \There is Nothing Like 'a Dame'' included, the students at the Gilman School personally expressed ~ their great satisfaction. Indeed, many of them raised questions con- cerning the undergraduate programs at Union, and the Union Theatre Presents: ' Ten ·Little Indians May 9 through 13 at the Nott MemoriCJ,I Tickets Go On Sale May 4 at the Nott Box Office from 1 to 5 p.m. Performances begin at 8 p.m. Glee Club was able to provide on-the-spot expert answers and advice. Boarding the bus the next morning, Friday the \3oth the Glee Club headed for its final destination: Washington, D.C .. The men performed a mid-day. concert at the Silvan Theater near the base of the Washington Monwnent, but a few hours later they again bo-arded the bus for Hood College 1 They had invited Union to a large party - pro~ably due to boredom with _ the Midshipmen from nearby Annapolis. Union men realize, however, thattthe decision was purely logical! Saturday morning was travel time again back to Washington. Having the entire day -and evening free enabled mem~ers to go their separate ways and to seek out their own interests. Sunday morning, Aprill, they packed the bus and rode over . to the National Cathedral. There at the ten- thirty Prelude to the eleven o'clock service, the Union College Men's Glee Club sang a glorious half-hour repertoire of sacred music: Claude Debussy: '~Invocation,\ with tenor soloist Michael Miller; Virgil Thomp- son: \My Shepherd Will Supply My Need;\ Antoine Brumel: \Mater Patris et Filia;\ Josquin des Prez: \0 Domine Jesu Christe;\ J.W. Jenkins: \0 Sacred Head Now Woun .. ded;\ · John 'J. Davye: \1'enebrae Factae Sunt.\ Only a Glee Cluo member could fill in the details of the trip, and this paper un- fortunately is not the proper mediwn for such vivid repor- ting. However, it is extremely rare that a Union student does not know another who is a · member, so full accounts are easily accessible. Just ask! In general, the trip was highl~ successful and great fun at all thpes. The cohesion of the group formed by weekend trips during the year was made even stronger by tbe constant ex- posure to one another, and the impact that the Glee Club had on its audiences, especially in Washington and at the Gilman School, carried forth the name of Union College as something no less than very respectable and as an institution with great pride. '

Page 6 CONOORDI:BNSIS, May 3., 19'79 ulture- Brass Construction Boogies by MYLES OROS(JO Brass Construction, one ofthe most flamboyant j.azz\disco bands to hit the nation's music charts in the past four years, performed at Union College's Memorial Chapel llist Thur- sday, April 26. Even though it was a rainy, windy evening, a large number of smiting, anxious people strolled into the ·Chapel ready for a wild liour of musical entertainment. After watching the sound-and light crew make their final preparations on stage, the audience was noticeably pleased to see the Chapel lights dim. The crowd stirred in the darkness, a spotlight illtuninated the st~ge, and the festhdties began. Josephine Johnson, Wayne Durr. and G.regory Grant, representatives from the Black Student's Alliance, introduced themselves as the masters of ceremony. Josephine and Wayne made timely and well- received tributes to Kevin Moore, the B.S. A.'s treasurer for the last three years. Kevin, a graduating senior in civil engineering, has organized and contracted a series of fine concerts in the past~ and this evening was his final, yet shining testament to his dilig-ence and expertise. Greg got the audience into tlle con- cert mood by introducing Brass Construction. with a disc jockey scat medley. As he recited the words to his rhyme and asked Record Review: us to \put our hands together\ and ''shout out\ for '6rass Construction. the spotlight vanished and the Chapel was in darkness once again. Within seconds, disco lights were blazing and Brass Construction was blasting ''We Can Work It Out,\ a cut from their recent album. Dressed in flaming red pants and glittering silver shirts and boots, Construction gyrated and pulsated on stage amidst a wealth of speakers, amplifiers, and audio monitors. Quickly establishing a friendly rapport with the audience, they ended their first piece by exploding confetti over the stage and into the audience. Upon lighting consisting of smooth, blue hues and bold oranges, Construction coor- dinated these effects with a pleasant blend of gospel~soul numbers. Every step of the way, they lived up to their name aRd reputation by overpowering the crowd with their remarkable command of brass crescendos. The evening's highlight was Construction's performance of their million-seller disco hit, \Movin\'. Everyone jumped to their feet and boogied in their seats, on their seats, in the aisles, in front of the stage, and · even on the stage with the band. In the heat of the moment, Construction's drummer ripped off his shirt and then ef- fortlessly continued to slash away at his equipment. Though the concert was sparcely attended, Construction put on an enjoyable show. They not only proved their ability to \get down and dance\ but they also exhibited their unquestionable talent in making an audience yell, ''Freak\ and forget the world for a short wl1He. Most everyone left .the Chapel feeling a little happier and freer;. the B.S.A~ certainly did, but, more importantly, they left feeling closer to and prouder of Kevin Moore for his immeasurable work in providing us all with this memorable Brass Construction event. Brass Constr.uc.Uon ir:~ concert at Memorial. Chapel. Youngest Psychic Reveals His ESP Powers by SHELLEY ECKSTEIN This past. weekend Union College was fortunate enough to have on campus the youngest entert~ining psychic in the country today. On April 26th, 1979, Mr. Ronny Romm ap- peared at. the Spring Niteclub. His show was mind-boggling and qu~ disturbing. With his amazing feats of ESP he stunned an entire audience. Completely blindfolded with layers of tape over his eyes he predicted exactly the ..social security number of someone in the audience as well as predicting a question she had written on a· piece of paper. He also predicted how much change various members of the audience had in their pockets, exactly better yet. When asked if he was for real he replied, \What do you think? Mr. Romm's goal is merely to plant an element of doubt in the minds of his audiences, to make them ask, ''Could he really be psychic?\ liis appearance at Union College was an explosive success. Not only did he make people toy~witll the validity of ESP but he even made believers out of some non-believers! He is currently touring with .his show but plans to expand it in the future to include hypnosis. and other amazing feats of psychic perception. Watch for Ronny Romm, America's Youngest Entertaining Psychic.!. Interview, a professional. His act is designed to be enjoyab~e, rather than firghtening, so he is con- stantly telling jokes. The Il).ain emphasis is on:\\comedy, instead of on fear. To keep his show light, Ronny avoids.giving advice, or. making predictions about sickness or d- eath. He emphasized that he is noi a fortune teller, but a mind reader. The most general problems he reads concern primarily sex;, then oc- cupational worries, and educational worries. As a professional, Ronny does not use his sixth sense outside of his job .. Before, he could not control his. visions, which blur . out his · natural - vision. and present pictures before. him. Now he can turn it on and off like a light. Outside of his job he likes to shoot. pool~ . When I asked him how E.S.P: had affected his soclal life, he simply smiled broadly. But, then he added his E.S.P. often frightened people. Bringing It To Japan When anyone -mentions E.S.P., images of -similar \strange\ sciences come to mind, such as fortune telling, and the occult sciences. But this is not wbat E.S.P. is all about, says Ronny Romm, the ·per- sonable performer at Nightclub on Saturday night. Ronny has . had E.S.P. since he was a child. In our interview, Ronny at- tributed his unusual. property to a speech problem in. early years. He felt that since his speech was weak, his sixth sense, sensory perception, had been somehow strengthened. But he emphasized the fact that anyone _with practice, can use this sixth sense .. . Phyllis Sternberg, who saw the shOw, described Ronny's act as \very good.'' She was v:ery impressed- with his feats. Unfortunately, when he tried his E.S.P. on her, it failed. Of course, Ronny is not failproof, a fact which he announces at the start of the show. by PURE BOB BLAKE The CBS...Sony Company of Japan has for some time been recording various Western artists when they tour their country, and have made several live albums from these tapes. 'Thesetapes have been released in Japan, but were only available in the finest of import shops for the most extravagant pri~es in the United States. Among the most famous of them are live recordings of Beck, Bogart,. and Appice, Santana, and Cat Stevens. A few months ago the release of Cheap Trick at Budokan in this country saw the first of these Japanese albwns to be released domestically. This we~k the second of these live albwns, Bob Dylan at Budokau, will be released. The concerts from which the album was taped are from Dylan's world ~ur of last. year. I saw this entourage perform in Syracuse this past fall, and I was highly impressed at the performance. Dylan used his usual approach to live per- forming on this last tour; that is to present his old material in new musical arrangements. In theory this should not orily give the o1d songs a new vitality, but also bring out another side to them. Dylan's extensive new band, which features sa~ophone, flute, and female vocalists, among other things, gave Dylan a great deal of room to experiment with new arrangements. It is after seeing such a fine. performance in Syracuse that I am so disap- pointed upon hearing the new Bob Dylan at Budokan. This is for several reasons. · The first reason this album fails has to do with the new arrangem-ents themselves. As can be evidenced from Before the Flood (Dylan live with the Band Jn 1974) and -Hard Rain (The Rolli,ng Thunder Revue tour of 1976), Dylan's riew arrangements. sometimes work very well, and sometimes not at all. · Bob Dylan at Budokan features arrangements that predominantly- don't work. First, tbe albwn does not even include some of the best reworkings the band featured, · such as a slowed down ver.:sion of \Tangled up in BI1.1e,\ or an 'acid rock rendition of ''Masters of War.\ For the most part the new arrangements on this album add nothing to the originals, or sometimes are so absurdly tidiculollS, that with a reggae version of \Don't Think Twice It's Altight,\ or an up- beat calypso version (){ \Knoc:lting on Heaven's Door\ (which is a dirge after all) one must think Dylan gave these songs. new arrangements not to bring out another side to them, but rather just for the sake of gi'Ving them new arrangements. :me second reasQn this albwn fails is that it is a Silly idea in the first place to have a live Japanese Dylan album. Ideally, a live album should be far more than juSt a cheap souveriir of a concert. What a live- albwn should ·do is capture the im- mediacy and · relationship between an artist and his audience as they inspire each other to bring meaning and life to the artist's song in a way th~t a studiG album can not achieve. The immense excitement that a Dylan concert normally creates · is totally lost by an audience that not only cannot understand the words of these songs, but . probably cailllot even recogn,ize half of them in their new arrangements. That is not to say that this album .. does not have its moments. A brooding, heavy; \It's Alright Ma (I'm Only Bleeding),\ or a slow and beautiful· \I Want You\ are some of the album's few highlights. For the most part Dylan .gives totally uninspired performances of his classics, such as \Like a Rulling Stone\. or \Just Like a Woman\ ' . , robbing them of an th~ir power. As one listens to-:this album one feels that Oylart is rather bored with this whOle Japanese affair, and rather bored i~t. how the listener feels after hearing even a small bit of this album; On stage, it almost s~ems impossible that just anyone could have and be able to use this gift. The things that he does are phenomenal, such as his \prediction\ trick. In this trick, before the show,. he writes a number down and seals it in an envelope. TheR during the show · he asks three people to choose numters which he then adds up to equaf the number in the envelope. - This is Ronny'S career, After, graduating from. Stony Brook College, he went on the road as The skepticism with which Phyllis and others greeted Ronny is what puts the bread on his table. Skepticism is what draws large crowds. If E.S.P. was accepted as fact, no one would be impressed with Ronn-y. But, for now, he .draws large crowds · to each per- formance. At the end of the interview; I asked Ronny how E.S.P. had affected his life philosophy. Sobering for a moment,. he replied, \It's showed me how little -people's problems really are. Everyone exaggerate~. If everyone was bappy, then everything would be happy. Just don't worry so much.\ _ 4 - R'cinny Romm, spring nite dub performer. lV .. The reclini stih-d1 the f( Me me glancE w~yw reck IE dusty lumb' wiridi: ,lUSSE stickt neare frant dervi: frene: exec~: some again rushi madr SUS pi thou~ mast Zebi1 pleas myl1 for a to ' Engi ......

OONOORDIENSIS, May 3, ~9\19 Page 7 Miller's Madness At Its Very Best ' by TOI)D MILLER offers and fringe benefits. · \If you'll start with IBM this fall, we'llgive you 22K,.an ofHce with a view, a West Coast location, and your own adding machine'' he said, pulling out a voluminous contract from his briefcase. this: mid~town Manhattan . , . your oyster for the asking. Women, drugs, perks to beat tile band, exotic Mediterranean vacations, and ... a junior vice• presidency with the pride of New York.\ companies outside trying to get me to sign.\ He shook his head knowingly. \Yeah they keep pestering, me too. Especially thos( technical people. Keep on telling me that I· shouldn't waste The otlter day, whilst reclining comfortably upon a sun-drenched knoll located at the foot of our beloved Nott Memorial,I beheld what at first glance seemed a stampede of wayward bison, thundering recklessly across the great, dusty expartse -of Library Field; lumberingly, -lugubriously wiriding its way around non- ,lussea softballers and stickhandlers; until, as it grew ''There he is!,· the little fat one with the florid compleltiori shouted; \that's him!\ My blood froze in my veins as that grim realization occurred· the rea.Hzation that, pethaps unknowingly, I had thrmit aside from conscious . scrutiny the awE)some possibility that these refugees from Fortune's 500 were in search of, not some polished Civil Engineer or Chemistr-y whiz 'kid, but-dare I breathe 'it?--a humanities major! \Well that's very nice of you, but-\ \The Yankees?\ I asked, a' bit confused. my talents on stuff like writing plays. They want me to writt tech manuals, and teach , nearer, I discovered, gesturing frantically- amidst whirling dervishe~ of dust and sod, a frenetic body of leisure-suited executives-some bespectacled; some clutching briefcases hard against their heaving vests-all rushing, with a measured madness, towards some un- · suspecting prey.. Ab1>orbed though I Qad been by the masterful strategies of Aureng- Zebie, · I paused from my pleasure reading to watch, at my leisure.; tbe spectacle that, for aU I co1lld know, was about to envelop some hapless Engineer in a froth of salary With a Keystone-Koppish precision, they flew 1:1bout my person to flo.p, exhuaste.d, in various positions upon the knoll. A thin IBM vice president was the first to,catch his breHth. \Yu--You're an English major, right?\ I nodded in agreement amidst cries of 'he .can spell., he can spell!' and, muffled grunts of nearly carnal desire. . If you're a junior or senior majoring in sciences like math, physics or ~ngineering, the Navy has a program you should know about. It's called the Nuclear , Propulsien Officer Candidate- Collegiate Program ( NUPOC-C for short) and if · you qualify, you can earn as much as $650 a month right through your senior year. Then· after 16 weeks of \IBM? Those jokers? Sure, sure, they'll give you the world now~ hut what about in five , years, huh?\ It was the florid fat man fa representative from Sak's Fifth· Avenue, J shortly discovered), hat in hand, waving it about. wildly to catch my attention. ''Yeah, right: IBM. Hey Garris, that's a funny one; give him his own adding machine-\ • 'Shut up, Williams, I saw him first-\ Williams cut him off . with a rtght to the jaw with his portfolio. \Kid you look sharp and you obviously think sharp, Picture \No I'm talking about Sak's Fifth Avenue, kid. Do you remember our white sale last fall-\ \Macy's undercut you guys by 20 percent, with better stuff\ yelled Garris, peeved. 1 was a bout to reply when I felt myself in the firm grasp of yet another maddened executive. \Plastics my boy, plastics.\ . I wrenched myself free. and ran into the Nott where I met my friend Gary, an aspiring playwright and, like myself,. an Englishmajor in good standing. \Hi Todd, what's up?\ \There're about twenty· responsibility, a $24,000 salai;\y in four years, and ·gilt- edged qualifications for jobs both in the Navy and out. ... Ask your placement officer to set up an interview with a Navy representative when he visits the campus, or contact your Navy representative at 800-841-8000, orsendinthecoupon.The NUPOC-C Program. Not only can it help you complete college. It can be the start of Offieer Candidate Scp.ool, you'll get an additional year of advanced technical education. This. would cost thousands in a civilian school; but in the Navy, we pay you. . an exci tiJ?.g career. It isn't easy. There are fewer·than 400 opepings and only one,.of eve~y six applicants will be selected. -But if you make it;' you'll have unequaled hands-ot:t ! . ... _ ... _ . ...,_ ... _______ .. 1 .. NAVY OPPOHTUNITY 8703 I . INFORMATION CENTER I . P.O. Box 2000. P('lha~1 Manor, N.Y. 10803 I I Yes, I'd like more informa!jon on I t.he NUPOC-C Prow-am (1/.10). I Name I a-·u~t tl 1 1(\l;I.!W 1\nnu l..a~•J I Address I I a~ I Stat Zip, _ __._,_.:.___ I Age tCollege/University I I t:Graduation Date !Grade Point I 1- .ft.Major/Minor I I Phone Number . . . CN4/9 '\\'\\\'\ I 1..-------------~ NAVY OFFICERS GET RESPONSIBILITY FASI. . : ) . engineers how to spell.\ He laughed. \Burroughs offered me thirty to start.\ \Thirty thousand? That's a nice salary, isn't it?\ \Yeah but I fugure if I hold out long enough, they'll go up to thirty-five, a car, and an .. executive stock option plan.\ Evading my pursuants through the proverbial back door retreat, I zoomed up to the Counseling Center to get some solid professional advice. The small waiting area in the center's.anteroom was crowded · with sobbing engineering majors, inconsolable computer scientists, and near-suicidial chemists. \Oh excuse me,\ I said, \I didn't know there was a wait.'' One particularly huge, mean mechanical engineer walked over to me, and grabbed me by the collar. \Hey everybody,\ he yelled nastily. \Look what I got! A hwnanjties major who 'didn't know there was a wait.' Well pardon me,\ he yelled in my ear, the presence of scotch noticable on his breath, \but we're trying to find some high level work. Did you know that just the other day I was offered a part-time shift at the Jack-in- the-Box? Huh? Did you know· that? DID YOU?\ \Well I feel badly for yQu\ l replied finnly, \but I didn't tell you to major in engineering.\ With that I wriggled fre~ from his tiring grip and sped out the door, pursued by · a DeMiUian multitude of cursing science majors. I was even struck in the head by a Hewlett-Packard! When I got to the Humanities Building, I nearly ran into several language professors doing a jig on the staircase, singing something about going to France to become industrial tycoons. Indeed, most of the offices had been cleaned out exc~t for the homey clutter that was Professor Freund's office. \Professor Freund\ I asked, breathlessly; ''are you leaving to'?\ · \Vell the Nafy vanted me to head up their nuclear sub- marine program at New Lon- ton, but ... naaaaah. Could you imachin me a rear admiral?\ He laughed. \Besites you can't smoke a cigar on a submarine, or somesuch nonsense like that . \Yould chu like a panatella?\ \No I replied, sitting down in a nice, overstuffed chair. • \What I need is advice.\ He shook his head sadly. \Look you're a hot, hot commodity arount here, you know. I can't tell you vot's right or wronk. Make your . own decision based upon your· best juchment. Now, I hate to throw you out, but I got thirty Blake papers to mark before Tuesday \ My suite in Fox seemed a natural refuge. After bolting the door from the inside and closing the drapes~ I crept wearily into bed. But something was wrong. \Hello I'm Catherine DeNeuve\ she said as I pulled my Winnie•thepPooh covers · about me in sheer terror. \Let's talk about Channel . . . \ Wow, that was I great dream. Too bad I had to wake up. She was just starting to tell me how much she liked strawberries.

Page 8 Glee Clubs Sing For Parents, The Union Cl)llege Men's and Women's Glee Clubs; under the direction of Professor Hugh Allen Wilson, will combine for a Parents' Weekend Concert to be held Sunday, May 6 at 1:00 p.m. in the Memorial Chapel. Admission is free! recently . resurrectM \UNION COLLEGE DUTCH PIPERS!\ The \Dutch Pipers\ is. a ten- member .subgroup of the Men's Glee Club that concentrates on lighter, ·more popular inusic not in the normal Glee Club repertoire. At this concert it will sing \Java Jive,\ an .. arrangement of Ed Lojeski. OONOORDIENSIS, May 3, 19\19 PA Qroi;Jp M & Mteatured at Immediately following the concert w:ill be a reception for the Glee Clubs and their families in the Lower Lounge of Hale House. The program will begin with a performance by the Combined Glee Clubs of Benjamin Brit- ten's \Rejoice in the Lamb.\ The organist will be Gary Harn~y, and soloists will be: Following the \Dutch Pipers'' will be the Men's Glee Club, which will perform several works from its Spring Tour repertoire: Virgil Thompson: \An.Ev.ening· With Cieely Tyson\ Ronda Weinberger, soprano; Demetra PDntisakos, alto; Robert H. Imrie, tenor; and Mitchell G. Blair, bass. Then the Women's Glee Club will perform several songs in their solo repetoire. These in- clude: Josquin Des Pres: \Ave Verum Corpus\ and \El Grillo;\ Jacques Clement: \!Jelas MamDur;\ John Hilton: \Now Is the Summer Springing;\ Johannes Brahms: \In Stiller Nacht;\ Bela Bar- tok: \Wine Sweet Wine;\ and Kjelson: \I'm Just a Poor Wayfarin' Stranger,\ with soprano soloist Pamela Howell. Next singtng will be the \My Shepherd Will Supply My Need;\ John J. Davye: \Tenebrae Factae Sunt ;.!' Josquin Des Pres: \0 Domine Jesu Christe;\ \Willard Fast: \Bread and Music;\_ Wendell Whalum: \Mary Had a Baby;\ Eric Thiman: \She Is My Slender Small Love;\ and J. Jenkins: \Cockles and Mussels,\ with tenor soloist Robert H. Imrie. Concluding the program will be a George Gershwin and Cole Porter medley appropriately entitled \Gershwin and Porter on Love,\ with soprano soloist Pamela Howell and ac- companist Edward G. Robin- son. The Glee Club recently finished their spring tour. Public Auction Sunday, May 6, 1979 at2 p.m. Achilles Skating Rink ·Union College Inspection 1:00 p.m. Partial Listing of Items to be Sold: Refrigerators, washer, dryer, T.V., games, household ap- pliances, phonographs, radios, furniture, skis, bicycles, glassware, sporting goods, etc. Sponsored by: Delta Gamma Sorority A tax deductible sale benefiting Sight Conservation & Aid to the Blind Terms--Cash or certified check. Refreshments Available She is without doubt, the most prominent Black actrej;s of our time, and probably one of the most respected actresses ·in film history. Her starring roles in Roots, Sounder, and The Autobiography of Miss Jane Pittman have made her a modern legend. Unencwnbered by props, macke1.1p, or costumes, she combines readings and commentary to present a memorable \Evening with Cicely Tyson.\ · . Cicely Tyson grew up in the Harlem ghetto and has risen. from welfare toward the ranks of the de-vine legendary ac- tresses. She has \walked'' to stardom- with · slow, deliberate steps:-Her praises are unusuat. She. is hailed by Rex Reed as having \standards and courage\ in addition ~o­ supreme talent TYSON exer· cises exquisite control over her career, moving· with discretion and dignity into• roles that will not compromise her intergrity as an actress or her pride as 'a Black womarl. \She has the haughtiness of the enormously gifted-of those determined to do everything the moSt difficult way, because they know they can,\ says Pauline Kael. Great roles are difficult to come by, and there is--a double predicament for a great Bla~k actress. Yet the r-ewards of perserv~rance were monumental for Cicely . Jane Pittman. \A fantastic experience,'' hailed Rex Reed, \not onlY. .the best film about Black pride l have ever seen,- . but one of the best films · on hUD1ali ever· rn.ade-\ He call~ Tyson's performance, ''one of the most brilliant .. I have ever seen by a woman of any color, any age, any season.'' The life of Jane Pittman was traced from her youth in slavery at the close of the Civil War to the age of 110 and the beginning of tlie civil rigbts move1Ilent in 1962. \1 a!f!cepted the role because it deals with the history of. my people; 11 says 'Tyson!, \apd I'm proud of that histoty. One of the · problems with, :Blacks is that they've been made to feel ashamed of their past, and I think that's wrong, Tyson's accomplishemnts aye extraordinary. Jane Pitt· man's slow walk to the for- bidden \Whites only\ drinking fountain is a tribute to Black spirit as well as a personal tribute to · Cicely .Tyson's hard won victories. -In an Evening_ with ·- Cicely Tyso11 it will become perfectly clear WbY she.has chosen the works of Nikki Giovanni along with other poets for her dt\amatic readings. Giovanni's words speak the truth about Cicefy' Ty~on:: ·\I am so perfect so devine so etheral so .surreal- - I cannot be comprehended except by my permissi9n.\ cCr i)J~~ \ '1; \ i!l £0. IlfC. ::t: *Jij~ ~- . ~,c.11, ~ ~ ~ AUCTIONEERS & APPRAISERS Tyson . Sounder (which won -Tyson an Academy Award nommatioh) was capped by a remarkable television drama, The · Autobiography of Miss The Union College Speaker's Forum presents.,\A Night with Cicely Tyson\ on Friday; May 4at 8:30p.m. The program will be held at . Memorial Chapel. Ms. T'iSQri willspeak of her career and life and will read from her favorite poetry. Admission is free to- Union College people and their-families: and $1.50 to all gthers. • LICENSED-BONDED-INSURED Friday, May 4th All Afternoon 2·~()-3:00 3:00 3:00-5:00 4:00 5:00-6:30 7:00-8:00 8:00 8:30 8:30 10:00 9:00-11:00 Evening Saturday, May 5 All Day 9:()0 10:00 10: 00-12:30 10:00-H:OO 10: 00-ll: 00 10:30-11:30 10:30-11:30 1(1-:00·11: 00 11 :30 1():00-11:30 11 :00-t: 30 Classrooms, labs. library open for visitation Professor David Sadorsky Columbia Unlv. Prof. Men's Var. Tennis vs. Colgate Open House Student AthleticCompetition Bulfet Dinner Registration for those who have not been preregistered by their son-dalJghter Lecture: Dr. Owen Gingerich speak lng on Stonehenge: A Megalithic Observatory \An Evening with Cicely Tyson\ Coffeehouse Movie, ''Oh, God\ Live Entertainment Mountebanks Tennis Morning jog with Prof. Ted Sick Women's Var. Softball vs. Colgate .. Brunch Faculty\ Receptions Student Affairs Reception Term Abroad Student Research Projects on Display Computer ('enter Tour Lunch :· Gatesman Tours of Campus.- every V\' hour Women's Lacrosse vs. Mohawk Lacrosse Assqclatlon PARENT 1 SW'EEKEND MAY4,5,6 Va.rious Locations Strauss Lounge Tennis Courts Placemenl Office Library Fi~ld Hale House Student Activities Schaffer L1brary ' Memorial Chapel Old Chapel 55 016 Dutch Hollow Pub Nott Memorial Tennis Courts Alumni Gym Alexander Field Hale House West College Va~ious Dept. Lounge! Student Activities ' Outer Lounge Hale House Lower t..oun~ Various Locations Computer Center, Steinmetz Hall Dutch Hollow Pub In Front of Carnegie Library Field i.i: 30 12:00-1:00 12:30 12:30-4:00 2:00 2:00 2:00 2:00 2:30 All Afternoon I 2:00 12:30-4:00 2: oo--s·: oo 2:00 All Afternoon All Afternoon 3:30 3:30-5:00 4:00-5:00 4:30 5:00-8:00 8:00 ,J:OO, 9;00; 1h00 9:00-1:00 ~. Sunday, MaY 6 10:30-11 :oo 11:00-1:00 1:00-2:00 1:00 2:00 7:00, 9: ()('), 11:00 Prize Day Registration for those not pre-registered ' Ultimate Frisbe.e Team E)(hibition Game Barbeque Rugby GamE> Varsity Bas\t:sll vs. Middlebury Var. Men's La.::'rosse_ vs. Hamilton JV Men's Lacrosse vs, Hamilton Faculty-Sta If-Student· Parent Sof.tball Game Blacksmithing Exhibition and Demonstration Cabaret-afternoon matinee Student-Alumni Phofography Exhibit Fencing Exhibition Bicycle Race VoUey®ll· 1 Exhibit--Union's History Mountebanks Presents President's Reception & Open Hopse Hillel Wine & Cheese Reception Catholic. Mass Dinner-Reservations Required Cabaret Movie: \Oii God\ Night Club: M & M Organ Recital Cbarnp~gne Brunch Glee Clubs Concert , VIewing ·Begins for Aucotion Auction--sponsored by Delta Gamma Sorority Movie: \Oh God\ - . - Memorial Chapel Student Activities West College Field (rain--Field House) Chet Arthur's Statue (raln--Atumni Gym) Library Field Central Park Daley Field ·Garis Field Alexander Field In Front of Carnegie Cabaret Room Nott .Memorial Library Plaza (rain--Arts 202) In Front of Carnegie Library Field - Library DL T--~nd \Fir. Carnegie President's Gardens Strauss Lounge Old Chapel Dutch Hollow Pub eabaret Roclm ss 016 ·- Achilles Rink Memorial Chapel Dutch Ho.llow Pub Memoriat Chapel Achilles Rink Achlll~s Rink ss 016 ''Tt by 1>01' \The Tty play that n:t· It's an or1~ Gary Glaul script and' perform an through M~ ••The Tr· comedytha personal ,gr foar peoplE their lives ones expE performar college itsC: tryout ast ol'iginal plc approxima Gary also, twout in tl tliat he ha: first one t actors, to tryouts, . fi roles and salS as re\' add to the lines. The pla; qnality by a great d' writing pt music an' developed art of WI considera playwrigh A very Garystrw on the gu many. of I - ou u T· c·. 1-1 ( 1126 Pho Ral p Pt

CONOO'.RDIENSIS, May 3J 19'79 Page 9 ''Th·. · T· ·. t'' p·· · • · ·.· -e -'ry·ou· · rem1eres by DONNA CltEELEY • \The Tryout\ is not just any play that may come to the Nott. It's an original! Union's own Gary Glauber has written the script and will be directing its- perf(lrmances May · 23rd thr<>ugh May 27th. \The Tryout\ is. a serious comedy that deals With love and personal growth in the lives o( fo11r people. The \tryouts'' in their lives will not be the only ones experience,d with the performance, 'however. The college itself is experiencing a tryout as this· wilt be th~ first ol'iginal play performed here in approximately fen years. For Gary also, this is somewhat-of a tryout in that Qf the two plays that he bas written, this is his first one to be produced .. The actors, too, are subject to tryouts, first receiving their roles and then during rehear- sals as rewrites occur daily and add to the tasks of memorizing lines. 'Tile play is not a tryout in qaality by any means. ·Gary has a great deal of experience in · writing poetry, Short stories, music an:d dialogue~ He has developed a sensitivity for the art of writing plays through considerable research on playwrights and critical works. A very talented individual, Gary strummed some melodies on the guitar as 'be recounted many of his feeling and ex- Special: periences ·in producing \The TryQut:~' \The. idea for this play first came to me while I was Christmas shopping last December. But as a true play, it has grown on its own and taken a life above and beyond the planning stage. Even the ending has been rewritten as I didn't feel it was honest enough for a play that predominantly deals with honesty and emotions. It is _ very difficult to be honest in the characters as it often becomes painful and close to home. All of the characters contain a bit of myself or my interpretations of myself and others, You. can't .portray real life in .a play as everything must be larger than Ufe.\ ~·I feel that a play should be a strong emotional experience from both sides of tbe footlights and if this eomes out right the audience Should feel as much growth and change as that of the character. This will require . suspension of the realities of tim~ and space· so the audien«;:e loses itself in the action of the .play. It will also be necessary to make the con- strictions and controls of drama invisible so the play seems to , now effortlessly.\ \There are many difficulties that ~rise in working on 'the college level and in this-respect it has been a battle of endless compromises to· date. One reason for these compromises is that myself and all-the actors are students first and foremost and thus are often forced to 'put the play .secondary to our other work. Another reason. is that Union is such a small college that actors are often associated with their past roles. In order to alleviate this I have made a small cast (only five charac- ters) and have tried to avoid typecasting the actors into the roles that they've been previously associated with. This makes it more challenging for the actors, but I feel it is required to achieve the _in- tensity and poWer necessary for the play's success,'' ''It has Qeen a very difficult .tmdertaking on my part and l . ean understand why more people don't attempt it. It is a big time commitment and theatre at Union isn't as recognized as it should be. _ Perhaps my efforts toward' an original production mc:~y en· courage others to try and do the same.\ ''Overall I ha:Ve really en· joyed the experience and am very optimistic about having a successful run here at Union. The entire cast and crew :a..re enthusiastic and- pushing towards success. I suppose that regiltdless of its success, l won '.t be satisfied with it as a · finished product. I'm hard on myself in that way and .am constantly pushing· myself further. I am trying, possibly Gary Glauber., author and director of \The Tryout,\ whose bir- thday is this Friday, May 4. with a few rewrites, to take this play to repertory theatres with the optimistic outside chance of an off- Br(ladway or Off-off Broadway future in store.\ \The play's, success or- fai:lure isn't so much a question to me as is the lessons involved. My purp<>se in writing the play was to share certain feelings and emotions through the mos~ personal and direct me<Uurns. The characters and· situations are created for the sole purpose of interaction with a liv.e audience and in this way the play in performance takes on a life of its own outside of the actual writing. As director, it is my duty to interpret the written play, but the actors interpret my dire~tions. It is· a cooperative effort thro~ugh which things are created and expanded upon which might never h:ave been found other- wise. If even one person in the audience can connect or identify with the characters or situations in the \Tryout\ then, my purpose has been achieved.\ Parent's- Weekend Resta11rant Guide ; Bring You-r Parents to the Pub Friday and Saturday Night- Weeken<! Highlights Sunday Champagne Brunch Phone:':\'518) 370-6050 370-6051 e\ Special Parents' Weekend ~\\0~\)'(. Menu 5:00-8: 30 ~~ 8 ~9'1 (y.\!Jf\l p q·.\!J\)'\' live Entertainment 'Friday 9-1 Gary Glauber & Rob lmre Saturday Dinner . \..._ Entertainme-nt for your listening pleasure Todd (the ,Geek) Mfller 3~25 per person 11 a.m.-1 p.m. Includes bagels w-creamcheese, eggs, danish, donuts, French toast, omeletts, toast Free Champagne With Brunch! 120 Lake Hill Rd. Old Homestead Bill Hall & Ken Renaud Your Hosts Burnt Hills is proud to _present Prime Rib for Parents' Weekend Feast upon our j.uicy tender Prime Rib Queens cut only, $5.95 399-9139 Country Kitchen Restaurant For reservations, ca-ll 372-5629 2310 Nott Street ·Morrette's Restaurant 1126 Erie Boolevard - Schenectady, New York Phone 346.-9550 Monday . Thursday-9 a~m. to -11\p.m .. Friday and~.Saturday~9 a.m. to 1 a.m.-, Welcome Parents p ERRIN0-\5 RESTAURANT And Cocktail Lounge_ . 'Phone 374-4515 Ralph Perrino Proprietor . 2015 Rosa Road Schenectady, N.Y. 12309 Featuring: Vittles-Sippin' Spirits For Lunch: Deacon's Lunch, Granny's Special, Papa's Favorite For [)inner: Steaks, Turkey Shortcake, Skillet Chicken, Seafood, Fresh Hot Buiscui.ts Hot Apple Crisp, Hot Apple Pi~ '· Open 1 days a -week Daily 10: 3Qa.m.-10: 30p.m., Sun. 1:30-9p.m. Sunday Brunch 10·1 - Welcome Parents Make Reservations For Parents' Weekend The 'Pumkin Patch Feoturinc. Steaks and Secifood ... Open from 11:00 until 5:00 for Lunch Dinner Monday thru Thursday 5:00-10:00 Friday & S.atu.rday 5:10-11.:00 We accept MasterCharge and Visa Reservations a're alswaysa good idea Corner of Eastern Pkwy.·& McClellan St.r 393-; 1 2186

• Page 10 CONOORDIENSIS, May 3, 19.79 ... ~ Around Campus Clambake Fever With spring fever finally rolling in at Union, it can only mean one thing: Sigma Chi's clambake is on the way. In fact, only two weeks remain until the social event of the spring takes place. With additional ac- tivities, and an extended menu highlighting the bake_ on Saturday, May 19, this promises to be the best clambake yet. There will be all the corn, chicken, potato salad, macaroni salad, hot dogs, and clams that you can eat, along with all the cold beer you could possibly drink ·There will be a special 50 cents-a-ticket raffle with free dinners and a T.V. as prizes! To top off the all-afternoon party, there will be - an all~campus . party on Saturday night at Sigma Chi. So hurry up and buy your clambake ticket (they will be $4 until Friday, May 5, $5 from then until the clambake, and $6 at the clambake). Purchase a colorful tee-shirt for only $3.50. The clambake provides the unique opportunity of con- -- tributing to charity while having a great time. So don't wait until May 19 , to catch clambake fever, get your tickets and tee-shirts now! NEH Grant Paul. LeClerc, associate professor of French at Union College, has been awarded a $20,000 grant from the National Endowment for the Humanities for independent study and research. LeClerc will undertake a book-length study of the idea of equality, a concept cel}tral to the Age of Enlightenment in 18th century France. \A new understanding of man and his place in the world was con- ceived and championed by the philo~opbes of 18th century France; it has become part ()f the cultural heritage of the West and is familiar to all students of history, 1 ' LeClerc notes. \Expressed late in the century as the right of the individual to, liberty, fraternity and equality- or to life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness-the world-view of the Enlightenment was a summation of its political, social and even moral philosophy., Studying the social and historical contexts of the idea (){ equality, LeClerc will consider its origins in classical antiquity, in the work of early Christian writers, and., more extensively, in the later writings of Shaf- tesbury, Hutcheson, Locke and others. LeClerc will also examine the treatises, political texts and iconography of the French revolution which can shed light on how the idea of equality was perceived. LeClerc, who has completed preliminary research for the project, will spend the 1979~0 year in Paris and New York City. . His prior research and publications have focused on a number of issues related to the French Enlightenment. He is the author of Vol~ire and Crebillon pere: History of an Em.nity, published in 1973 as a volume of Studies on Voltaire and the Eighteentb Century. He is currently part of an in· temational team of scholars preparing the first 'new edition of the complete works of Voltaire to appear in this century; LeClerc is editing Rome Suavee, one of Voltaire's more important historical tragedies. A member of Union's faculty since 1966, LeClerc holds his B.S. from the College of the Holy Cross, and his M.A. and Ph.D. from· Columbia. He previously has won stipends from the American Council of Learned Societies and the National Endowment for the Humanities, Gatesmen Selection r The Gatesmen Selection process has been revised. The new process provides a more objective way of choosing the most qualified applicants. Many people equated the for- mer syste01 with a popularity contest. Such accusations gave ris~ to the following~ changes: 1) • Groups are no longer composed of the same four people. Instead, different .combinations of interviewers, from the Gatesm~n Selection Committee, comprise a given • group -at a given time. This innovation abolishes \hard\ groups. 2) Points are given to the applicants for five major areas. , These areas include: Attitude (1-5 points), knowledge (1-5 points), ability to answer \pressure\ questions (1-5 points), personality (1-5 points), and appearance (0-2 points). In addition, there is a comment section for general impressions. The new point syste.m requires each interviewer tQ define and work- within the criteria for evaluation. 3) A pre-determined number of \pressure\ questions will be asked in order to insure uniformity within each in- terview. Finally, the members of the Selection Conunittee would like · to meet the applicants on a more personal level. An in- formal party is being held on Sunday, May 6 from 7-8 p.m. Come and enjoy some punch in Lower Hale House Lounge. Ple.ase note that the deadline for applications has been ex- tended to Sunday, May 6. Ap;;:lications are available in the Admissions office until 4:30 p.m. on Friday, May 4. Bring completed application to the party. Any questions should be directed to Robyn Kobert (377- 0225). ISA Week The Inter ational Students Association will be presenting \International Week,'' from 'J_'uesday, . May 8 through Friday, May 11. The primary purpose of the week is to provide Union students with a· better awareness of some of the world's contemporary political, social and economic concerns. The ISA is sponsoring a wide range of events, including lectures, movi-es, and an Intellectual Cabaret in an. effort to share some• of their ex- Jieriences in foreign countries with their fellow students. On Tuesday, May 8, there will be a lecture giyen on the.status of the relations between the United Sta. - and China. The speaker w&.: be Jonathan Spence of Yale, and· the talk will take place in SS 016:-- 0n Wednesday, May 9, there will be a movie called \Two Women,\ ,¥starring Sophia Loren. shown in SS 016 at 4 and 11 p.m. Admission is free. The lecture and discussion scheduled for Thursday, May 10, concerns the situation in the Middle East. Professors Berk and Vatikiotis (visiting) of the History Department will be speaking on the Arab-Israeli conflict at 8 p.m., in Strauss Lounge. The week culminates on Friday with· a lecture and discussion on Human Rights at 4:30p.m. in Hale House_ Lower Lounge. Union Professor Robert Sharlet (Political Science) wil'l be speaking, along with refugees from Black Africa and Vietnam, and a J·ew from the So\det U)lion. There will also be an Intellectual Cabaret at 8 p.m. Helene Stnitll, Director of the International Center in Albany, will be on hand with two foreign students, ' two professors, and two foreign professors. The topic for discussion is ''Understanding Each Other.\ ''International Week\ .is a_ rare • opportunity to . discuss contemporary issues, com- -municate with the forl!ign memUers of our own com- munity, and to learn a few things. As one member of the ISA pointed out, ''there is more to Union than beer parties!\ Nelson To Speak Dr. Wayne Nelson, consultirig statistician with General Electric's Corporate Research and Development Center, will speak on ''How to Analyze Data With Simple Plots\ .at 4 p.m. Thursday, May 3 in Room 207 Bailey· Hall, Union College. The lecture is sponsored by Union's Institute of Administrat-ion and Management, and is open to the public. · N~lson will explain how to make and interpret various plots, including histograms and probability plots for in- formation on a distribution; crossplots for relationships between 'variables and for variables as a frinction of time; hazard plots for product life data. The talk is based on a volume on statistical techniques Nelson recently wrote for the American Society for Quality Control. . Computer Offered An intensive three-week in- troductory course U8 co01puter programming will be a special feature of Union College's 1979 . summer session. , ''Introdu<:tion to Computer Programming,'' from. July 9 through 27, will also be offered evenings over a period of Six weeks this summer, and it is ·- essentially the same course offered during the regular ten- week tenn at · Union. The special three-we~k format is made possible -by holding classes each weekday from 8:30 to 10 a.m. and 10:30 a.m. to noon~ and lab sessions each afternoon from 1:30 to 4:3()p.m. l)esigned for students in all disciplines, the course will 'be open to qualified higll school students as well as to college students. It carries hill credit, and is appropriate for college- transfer credit at other in· stitutions. Working with the college's Burroughs 68(,)5 co01puter, students will learn the FOR• TRAN language and will be introduced to computer organization through the assembly language, MIXAL .. Applications to problems i!l non- technical fields will be examined. The 1979 summer session will include 82 courses in the arts, humanities,· sciences, engineering, and a series of certificate programs in management. Tbi.rty-five courses will ·be held. during the d!ly, and 47 in evening sessions. The summer session is divided into five distinct terms, .allowing students to take courses- in sequence.\ In addition, two non-credit courses--one in pre-calcuhis mathematics and the other in read'ing ,imptt;lvement techniques-will be offered. A summer sessitms catalogue is available by writing,. calling or visiting Union's Graduate Studies and¥ Continuing Education office, Wells House, 1 Union Ave., Schenectady, N.Y. 12308 (tel. 370-6288). Yale Prof. . On Chirta Jonatban D. Spence, Professor of History at Yale University, will deliver a public lecture at Union College on Tuesday, May 8. Prof. Spence will address the topic: \China Today: New Politics or Old History?\ His objective, he explains, is to \elucidate events in the period since the death of Mao Tse-Tuq.g, by placing them in a larger, historical context.\ Prof. Spence receiv~d his Ph. D. from Yale University in 1965, and was awa!lded the John Addison Porter Prize for. his dissertation on Ts'ao Yin and the K'and·hSi Emperor. He is the author of numerous books and articles, inch,tding The ·Death of Woman Wang and China Helpers: Western Advl$ers in China 1620-1960~ His · visit to Unio~ is supported py . the International Student Association . of Union Gollege, and is tbe first in a series of events planned by ISA ~or their first annual Illternational Week. JMay 8 ··11). Other events include· lectures, seminars, and a film on the Opium. War. In addition to the support of ISA, Union Depart· ments of History and Political Science are co-sponsors ofprof. Spence's visit. The-lecture will be. presented in Room 016, Social Sciences. Building at 8 . p.m., Tuesday evening, and will be followed QY a reception. The public is urged to attend both events. Ex-Moonie I To Speak \Crazy for God-My Life with the Moonies\ is the title of a lecture by Chris Edwards here Monday; May 7 in Room 016, Social Sciences Building. It starts at 8:30 p.m. and adinission is $1.50 to the general public and 75 cents with a Union I. D. In 1975, Edwards was graduated near the top of his Yale crass. With a B.A. in philosophy and a 1 desire to pursue a psychology education, he went to California to seek a doctoral program. Near Berkeley, he met someone who engaged him in a talk about community help projects ~d who invited Ec;l.wards to spend a weekend on a farm. The farm, it turned out, was a \training camp\ of the Unification Church, and Edwards claims that he was coer'Ced and manipulated ffi.to --.Area MUSIC May 4. Lyric soprano Marie Myers of Sch~nectady and tenor Richard. Arnold of ,Albany will appear in concert on Friday at 8:00 p.m. w the Recital Hall of the University at Albany's Performing Arts Center. Featured in the evening's performance will be tbe works of three contw porary com- posers. Further information on this vocal recital is available by . calling the Performing Arts Center Box Office Monday thru Friday 11 a.m. - 4 p.m. at 457- .8606. May 5. The Albany Symphony Orchestra will begin its· 79-80 subscription drive immediately following the concert on May 5, with a gala reception at \.The · Terrace\ Educational Cultural Center-State Museum, Albany. Anyone interested in supporting the symphony by working on the 79-80 Subscription Campaign may. call the Symphony office, 465-4755 or 869-7076. May 4;.5, COmposer Malcolm Arnold's Symphony No. 8 commissioned by the Rustam K. Kermani Foundation will be presented as a world premtere concert at/ the Troy Savings Bank Music Hall on Friday at the Palace Theatre on Satur- day. Botb concerts will begin at 8:30 p.m, For ticket in- formation, call the Palace Theatre Box Office Monday through Saturday 11:00 - 5,:00 p.m. May ~0. Flute and Friends II, · a. concert . feafuring Irvin Gilman andSUNYA faculty and students, will be presented Thursday, at 8:00 p.m. in Page Hall. Page Hall is located. on the downtown State U. at Albany Campus, 135 Western Avenue. The program will include works by Villa-Lobos, J.S. Bach, Mayuzuini, Borne-Bizet and Ray Rettig. The concert is sponsored by the Music Department ofthe State· U. at Albany and there is no ad- mission charge. For further information, please call the Performing Arts Center at 457- 8608 or 457-6977. May 8. The University Community Orchestra of Sl)NYA with conductor Nathan Gottschalk, will present the annual Student Concerto Concert Tuesday evening, at 8: 30 p.ni. in the Main Theatre of SUNYA'S Performing Arts Center. The concert will feature students selected, by audition, to appear in the Orchestra: Michael Bardash, piano; Patrice Malatestinic, french horn; Peter Haas, contrabass; Norman Thibodeau, flute; Mark Adler, xylophone; Emily Muligano, violin and Cynthia Lee Barton, :piano. The concert is swnsored by the Music Department at The University at Albany and there .is no ad- mission charge. For further inf()rmation, please call the Performing Arts Center.at 457- 8608-6977. The Music Department at the Univ~rsity at Albany will sponsor the following: May 8. University Com· munity Orchestra. 8:30 p.m. Main Theatre. May 10. Irwin Gilman. Flute and Friends 8:00 p.m. Page Hall. May 12. Uni-versity Chorale .. 8:30 p.m. ~ain theatre. joining. ''My m: complete control whom I trusted< personaHty . 11 beyond re~ogniti had deterrorate1 where I cou!~ re than five min\11 with virtually 0' Seven mont association with · began, he was kl own pare ••deprogramm' Patrick. Edwa ·. studied the cu within the psychology am founded a grou treat cUlt•telatE wrote Crazy Nightmare of C .begun counsel and lecturing a For more inj his lecture- at student activiti 6118. Unio11 Camp Volunteers in Annual Busi'r1 celebrated the Thursday, Apr Dyck Restaur; tady. In reacing t1 the business c record for the r year. \Congra1 you,\ Harry 1 Jr., drive volunteers, \a who have offm to Union durinl Some 120· tacted more individuals : since the can January. \' volunteers, I mest~ perso1 -Cal For turther 457-8606. THEATRE May 1-6. returns to the next week in Teyve in ''Fie The ever pc playing at Latham Ne, Ticketron o Office for me May 4-5. ' Department College of- presentingth . season, Noe: Spirit, as it Albany Cfl.m will be at 8:( available at calling for r 1725. '-. ART May 3-6. ~ opening rece JCA gym .f Exhibit hour p.m. Free. Albany. FASHION May 5. A Disco spor Business. Co of the Albar held at tl Convention Plaza. La Summer modeled' b' ABc studei on sale a· Community RUSSEll May 3. Spring Co 1 Center. Fr

1\ }, te :e e .. - •' OONOOEDIENSIS~ May 3) 1979 Page 11 -----Afoun~d Campus-, --- I joining. ''MY lilind was 'under complete control of IllY leaders whom I trusted completely. My personality had changed beyond recognition ... m,y mind had deteriorated to the pq,iJlt . where I cou!~. read for no ~ore than five mmutes at a time- with virtually ·no recaH~\ .. Seven months after . hts association with the ''Moonies\ began, he was kidnapped by hos own parents . and \deprogramrned'' by ·Ted . Patrick. Edwards has since. studied the cult phenoJll.enon within the teachings of psychology and religion, 1,1nd founded a group to study and ·treat cu.lt•related problems. He wrote Crazy 'for Go_d-..;The Nightmare of Cult Ufe, and has .begun counseling ex-cultists and lecturing abo.ut cUlts. For more ·information· about his lecture· at .Union, call the student activities office at 370-' . 6118. Union Campaign Volunteers in Union-College's Annual Business Campaign· celebrated the drive's success Thursday, April 19 at the Van Dyck Restaurant in Schenec- tady. . In reacing the $125,000 goal, · the business drive set a new record for the ninth consecutive year. \Congratulations to all of you,\ Harry E: Whittingham, Jr., drive chairman, told_ volunteers, \and thanks to all who have offered their support to Union during the campaign:'' Some 120 volunteers . con· tacted more than 75& firms, individuals and _companies since the campaign began in January. \To those key volunteers, I convey my war- mest, personal gratitude,\ Whittingham said. ''I also want to thank each of you who are here representing your com· panies. Your support has· been crucial to our ·success. \Obviously the range of the individual .gifts was great, depending , on the size and financial abilities of the com- panies and firms. But each of you has demonstrated ·your belief in Union College and has voted with your dollars for the cont~ued growth and progress, not only of-Union but also of our Capitol District community,\ he .said, Norman P. Auburn; Unipn's acting presi'dent, t~lked of his personal impressions of similar cam)!aigns in other <;om- munit~es. \What you have· accomplished here i·h the Capital District conunun;ty is outstanding among colleges and universities.in the nation/' he said. <!~.hl.~on College is grateful to you for a_job well done.\ · \To maintain the high quality 0f education which bas been Union's hallmark over the years requires private dollars to augment tuitiQn and fees and endowment earnings. I'm sure it could be docl,Ullented that the voluntary contributions of business and industry to private colleges and universities are in fact less . than the taxes the\y · would have to pa\y to support ·public institutions, Should . . . their students go to state universities,\ AUburn said. In the coming weeks, cam- paign vohtnteers will continue to make follow-up calls to .area firms and institutions which hav.e pledged supp_ort. Whittingham received a surprise gift from Auburn duting the victory celebration: a 1. ·on College chair, in thanks ft. •'VI ittingham's two years as . cahtp .. ign chairman. Members of the .campaign's ex.ecutive committee are: Clinton A. , Braidwood, president, Schenectady -Ca-18ndar-- For turther information call May 6. Class Day. 2 p.m. 457-8606. Schacht Fine Arts Center. THEATRE Reception following with \Moth May 1-6. Theodore Bikel and Star\ in Roy Court. (Rain returns to the Coliseum Theatre place :Hart Hall.) - next week In his favorite role- May 7. Student Art Exhibit. Teyve in ''Fiddler on the Roof\. E~ibit. will continue through The ever popular musical .is May 15 at the New Gallery playing at the Cofiseum in SF AC. Free. Hours: Monday- · Latham New York. Contact Friday 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. and· Ticketron or Coliseum Box Sunday 2 to 6 p.m. Office for more information. May 9. Film. \The Wizard of May 4-5. The Theatre Arts Oz,\ 7:30 p.m. Schacht Fine Department of the Junior · Arts Center. Admission $1. College of· Albany· will be May 11. Variety Show. presentingtheir final play of the American Musical Theatre season, Noel Coward's Blithe Variety Show. Directed by Dirk Spirit, as its theatre on the Hillyer. 1:30 p.m. Schacht Fine· A~bany Campus. Perforriu~nces Arts Center. Free. Wtll. be at 8:00 P•IIL. Tickets are • A. R. OW avmlable at the door, or by · calling for reservations at 445- 1725. '- ART May 3-6. Student Art\ Show:... opening reception May 3 in the JCA gym from 7 to 9 p.m. Exhibit hours froni 10 a.m. to· 4 p.m. Free. Junior. College of Albany. FASHION May 6; Art Resources Open to Women {AROW}, Schenectady, will feature Fiber artist G~le Grayrnan at its 348,State Street Gallery, opening Sunduy with a reception at 1 · p.m. and con· tinuing 1i.ntil May 8. Working. with natural fibers, Ms. Graymari~uses traditional techniqlles of frame-loom weaving, crocheting, coiling, and turning. . May 5. A fashion show and D1s~o sponsored by A1bany Busmess College for the benefit of the Albany Boys Club will be LECTUR,E held at the Empire . State CP_ onvention Hall, Empire State laza. Latest Spring and Summer fashions will · be modeled' b~ members of the ABC stude'nt bpdy. ·Tickets are on sale . at. Just-A-song and CRommunity Box Office. USSELL SAGE COL. S ~ay 3. Concert ... }agettes Cprmg Concert, 8 p.m. Bush enter. Free. May 8. \Off the Shelf Series\. Susan Hegpey, Professor of Speech and ·oral interpretation of . Literature will speak on \Mna na hEirearul.\ Women of ireland, which is a work in progress about Irish women in mythology, literature, folklore, music and history. In···the library ARC at 11:30 a.m. Free. Junior College of 4Jbany. · .. Chemicals, Iric.; Arlhur F. Casey, of Wemple, Daly, Casey & Hayes; }Cenneth Dagostino, secretary-treasurer, Dagostino Building BlocK:s, Inc.; Edward S. Godlewslq, sales 'manager, Levi Case Company; Robert 0. Grabner, vice president, Schenectady Savings Bank; \Arthur D. Hilliard; retired., National Corpmeric~l Bank & Trust; Dr. Norman D. Kathan; Thomas Olzenski, assistant vice president, Schenectady Trust Company; Richard .L... O'Rourke, president, Ter Bush & Powell; A. Leonard Reid, chairman of the board, Mohawk NaUonai Bank; Richard E. Roberts, partner in the law firm .of Higgins, R<iberts, Beyerl & Coan; Anthony TraneUi, manager., LeValley McLeod, hie.;· Charles H. Turner, Jr., manager, plant employee relations, General Electric ,company. _ Answers To Hunt 1. While they may or may not influence your future, the signs of the zod-ia·c occupy a prominent place on one of the campu.S buildings. Which Of!~? ANSWER: Alumni Gym, built around 1912. · 2:. A portrait of the only man hanged for mutiny in the US Navy graces one of the.walls in Schaffer Library. Who was be? Who painted the portrait? ANSWER: Philip Spencer, painted py Blendon Campbell. 3~ An asSociation of parents and the Class of 1968 are • responsible for the beauty and -comfort of this area. What is it? ANSWER: Library Plaza. · W:hat The Hell's GG>ing On? Thursday May 3· Wednesday May 9 This weekly calendar will no lohger \ be distributed on Campus. It will be listed in Concordy only. To publiciz€ an event, :please submit materials to the· Student Activities Offke · . in Carnegie Hall by Tuesday, 12:00 noon, Thursday, May 3 AE S Colloq uium-·IA. M speaker-Dt. Wayne Nelson will speak on ''How to Analyze Data with Simple. Plots.'' 4:09 ·p.rn., · BH 207. Coffeehouse-Paul Strauss- man. 8:30p.m., Old Chapel. Movie-\Oh God.\ 10:00 p.m.,. ss 016. Saturday, May 5 Women's Softball-Union vs. Colgate .. 10:00 a.m., Home. Baseball--Union vs. Mid· dlebury tDBUI). 1:00 p.m., Home . J .V. Lacrosse--Union vs. Hamilton. 2:00 p.m., Garis Field. Varsity Lacrosse-Union vs. Hamilton. 2:00 p.m., Daley Field. Movie-''Oh God.\ 7, 9 & 11 p.m.; SS 016. Sunday, May 6 Concert-Men's and Women's ·Glee CluBs. 1:00 p.m., Memorial · Varsity Golf--Union vs. Sif\:n.fl. Chapel. Lecture--Mary Hyde will discuss her research into the lire and time of Hester Lynch Thrale. 8.:00 p.m., Hale House Lower Lounge. Friday, May 4 1:00 p.m., Home. Movie-\Oh God.\ 7, 9 & 11 JS{) Hi-llel Speaker--Prof. p.m., SS 016. David Sadorsky will speak on, \Human Rights: Conteinpor ary Issues q.nd Jewish · Per- spectives.'' 2-3 p.m., StraQ.Ss. Tennis--Union vs. Colgate. 3:30 p.m., Horne. . Philosophy Colloquiwn-Prof. Hoffmaster will speak on ··coercing Organ Donors.\ 3:30 p.m., HU 213. . \An Evening with Cicely Tyson.\ 8:30 p.m., Mern()rial Cbapel. Tuesday, May 8 ISA Speaker- Dr. Spence. . The movie \Forbidden Planet\ will be shown at 9:30 & 11:15 NOT 7, 9 & 11. Wednesday, May9 TEN LITTLE INDIANS-- OPENING NIGHT!! 8:00p.m., Nott Memori.al. HE·W News r· · 4. Six brotherhoqds decided to celebrate the unity and strength of Union by~ refurbishing an existing structure and making it a joint memorial for their Stiffer requirements ·-for respective groups. Who,· what, foreign medical schools, wllose when and (despite the traffic American students wish to problems) where? receive Guaranteed Student ANSWER: Kappa Alpha, Sigma Loans, were pr.oposed in Phi·, Delta Phi, Psi Upsilon, regulations announced today by Theta Delta Chi, Chi Psi-The HEW's Office of Education. Blue Gate in 1947 which forms The new regulations would the southwest entrance to the not affect the some 3,000 campus grounds. , ~ students currently receiving .became necessary pecause of the increased number of U.S. students attending foreign medical schools and t:eports of questionable education prac- tices or lower academic stan- dards at some of them. All told, · some 5,000 to 8,000 U.S. students are attending foreign medical schools. 5. One of these six also Guaranteed Student L()ans commemorated its foundation while studying medicine at Union by finding a sunny abroad. south wall for a suitably worded To be eligible, a f()reign plaque . Which fraternity? medical school now would be W1tere is the plaque? . required to show that its ANSWER: Theta Delta Chi, students perform at a com- South wall of r{orth College parable level with U.S. students (The Huntley Residence).- on a standardized test. 6. At times in the .past a trail . The proposed regulations are of footprints and an. empty based on a se~tion of the Higher bottle or two have indicated a Education Act under which certain restlessness on his part. foreign schools can participate This noted graduate has been in the Guaranteed Student Loan stationary for the last fifteen Program_ only if _the Com· years; perhaps being ina IDQVie nnssioner .of Education finds . helped tosettlehimdown. What them •'comparable\ to a U.S. company put biin in his very institution. · SOlid shape? When? Previously, there were no . ANSWER: Henry-Bonnaro · formal standards for making Bronze ~co. in 1892 (Chester this· determination. Rules Arthur Stf:ltUe). The new regulations judge the schools by student performance on a standardized test that is already given to· foreign medical school graduates. Over a two-year period, the in- stitution must have a pass-rate average of 95. percent for U.S. graduates takipg the Educational Commission for Foreign Medical Graduates examination for the first time. This is considered comparable to the rate that would be ex- pected for medical school stu'aents in this country had they t;:~ken the exam. At present no standardized test is given to both U.S. and foreign medical school students. 7;- \Clari of the Maid of Milan\ first introduced this song to tbe world.' When- was Union's connection with the Chi Psi Charity Party c o rn p o s e r f o r m a L l.y memorialized? ' ANSWER: 1911 (Payne Gate) . 8. This engineering society established a chapter here in 1964. What is _the organization? · j And which chapter?· ANSWER: 'Tau Beta Pi, Mu Chapter. . 9; This long-time prQfessor is considered the· founder of the Institute of Administration· and Management. Who is he? Where is the plaque honoring his contributions? ANSWER: Beniamin Whitaker, the plaque can be found on the south wallof South College (The Kellett Residence). May 12 9:00p.m. Costume Theme -Peopus of the W-orld- Come represent your favorite country F=eatur.ing: Union Jazz Band . Coffee house entertainment Gambling 3 Punches Beer, Sh<lts Food Admission: $3.00 $4.00 at door -

Page 12 OONOORDIE!iS.IS, May 3, 1919 classifieDs ./ 'BUllETIN BOARD l.E.I<. Announces Proposal Oeadlint•: The deadline for proposals to ,the Internal Education Foundation in two - ~cat egories-~st udent-initia ted ·research projects and ·'educationally innovative'' projects--£alls on May 15. Notification for dwards in both ·catPgories.will be made b)· June 1. The deadline applies fo proposals for projects to be und€rtaken during the swnmer and fall terms. Proposals for ·student- mitiated research projects must have a written approval of a faculty advisor who has agreed to supet·vis.e the project. The proposals should be submitted to the Office of the Assistant to the f~rovost on supplied forms. Similarly, members of the College community who have \educationally innovative\ proposals should submit them to the Office of the Assistant to the Provost on supplied forms. Seniors: Graduation an· nouncements are in. Please pick them up in Student Activities Office. Any students interested in wo~king for the Voluntary Action Department in down- town Schenectady next year should contact either Joe Zolner or Maggie Boehmke (372-3395). ~e work would involve plan- ,mng ways to promote volun- teerism in Schenectady County as we~! as developing programs for mterested volunteers spe~k~ng before , progra~ partiCipants, compiling office publications and any other work the interested volunteer would like to begin. The position is excellent for anyone interested in obtaining practical ex- perience working. in an ad- mioistrative capacity. Any fUrther questions concerning the position ( s) should be directed to Joe Zolner (370-6061) or Maggie Boehmke at the Voluntary Action Department. Hours are flexible according to the individual's class schedule. JSO-Hillel presents David Sadorsk.Y, Prof. of Philosophy, Columbia Univ., to speak on Human Rights: Contemporary Issues and Jewish Per· spectives. Friday, May 4 from 2-3 p.m. in Strauss Lounge. Admission Free. JSO-Hillel presents a Wine & Cheese Reception in honor of Seniors: All seniors in- terested in speaking at Com- . mencement please submit a copy of your speech no later than May 10, 1979 to either: Andrea Fink, Box 1366 Debbie Garber, Box 1406 Ron Shelton, Box 1QJ Pai·ents Weekend Saturday, May 5 at 4 p.m. in Strauss Lounge. ·--~~-~- A moving truck will be available to take your things hoJl'!e for you at a v~ry minimal cost. However, there are only a certain number of items that can b.e taken, so call nmv and :rnake sure you get a space for :your things. FQr more information call 393-8684 and ask for Ben. Tonight--Pick up lottery cards~-9 p.m. · (82') Sophomores-Fox Lounge ( 81) Juniors--Davidson Lounge · • < 80) Seniors--West College Library ~ring Y';mr I.D. Also, Co-op mformatwnal meeting will be held in West College Library Mqpday, May 7 at 7 p.m .. .,Notice to all students ap- . plying for Financial Aid: The New York State Tuition Assistance Program rTAP) and R~ge~ts Scholarship ap- • pllcatwns (you must file this same application for either or both of these programs· each year) were mailed directly to your home address Jast week. If you do not receive this ap- plication within the next week, you should. inquire at the New York State Higher Education Assistance Corporation. Phone: 474-5642. If you did not check Item 83 on - your Financial Aid Form filed with the College Scholarship Servic~ to have your financial aid data processed through the Basic Educational Opportunity Grant program, you must file a sep-arate BEOG application to be considered for this award. Copies are available in the Office of Student Aid. Union College's Academic Opportunity Program (AOP) needs three peer tutor coun- selors for its 1979 Summer Program, to run July 1 through August 18 in Saratoga Springs, New York. Responsibilities will be to attend Summer Program Orientation Session (usually held day before the program starts), tutor students in assigned subject area, coor- dinate tutoring ·activities with -JOIN THE . . r ......... & •• 7 ........... ···-·.-~iii AND RECEI.VE EITHER A $1,500 ENLIST.MENT BONUS OR . TUITION ASSISTANCE Contact Your local ARMY NATIONAL GUARD Recruiter and see If YOU quality CONUC1 STATE ARMORY Jay Smigen, Box 1503 _ Speeches should be no longer than five minutes. Selectilm of the speakers will be based on a wt:itten and oral pr~:-entation. n you have any questions please contact one of us. faculty, assist students with orientation to Union, assist Stunmer Program, Residence Staff, attend weeklY staff meetings, submit ·written reports on students' progress and problems, participate in evaluations, participate .in social, cultural, and rect:eational .activities, make counseling referrals to ap- ·p.topriat.e professional staff, p-erform other duties as , assigned by Union Director and ' S'Un11'ller Program Staff. QUALIFICATIONS: Up~e- rclassperson or graduate as of the end of Spring term '79, .capab~e of tutoring in Math, Chemtstry or English. {Math and Chemistry tutors must be abl~ to tutor English also). Minimum 2.0 overall-3.0 in subjecf area you will tutor. Tutors will have the freedom to live at Skidmore during the 6 week session. Applications are now available and interviews being set up in the AOP Office, Old Gym Hall. Deadline for applications is May 10, 1979. For more information contact Mitzi Glenn, Director, or Maxine Andrews, Asst. Director: at 370- 6115. - An Informational .Session for all those interested in seeking · an elected office in Student Forum: at 4:30 ·Monday · in Strauss Lounge will be held. · The Photoclub wJll be presenting a display of their works in Nott Memorial for Parents Weekend. Any member who wishes to submit his-her work is to drop the pictures off to Mrs. Marra, in Student Activities. Union College Speaker's Forum Spring1979 Friday, May- 4, 8:30 p.m. Memorial Cliapel--\A Night with Cicely Tyson. Monday, May 7-\Crazy for God\-Cult Study Presentation with Chris Edwards. Tuesday, May 15--Music Presentation--\Making it in the Music Inqustry\ featuring Gary Davis (former President of Columbia Records and FLORIDA AVE. & DE WITT ST. AMSTERDAM, N.Y. 12010 (518) 842-7105 ·= NATIONAL~ \GUARO! 'HIS OffER GOODUNTIL J~NEU,1979 president President of Arista Records) Tycoon-the new rock group in love showcase _per-. SERVICES OFFER ED formance. PLACEMENT Peace CBrps·VIST A-ll.epr~ esentatives wUl be coming to the Albany-schenectady-Troy ar~a May 8 and 9, 1979, seeking volunteers to serve in 64 developing ila tions and in communities in need here in America. Volunteers, who must Bass Painting Co.-A UCol student offering exterior or interior painting and carpentry at reasonaple rates. Free estimates. Jle.ferences. Call eve. 346-5306 or 370-1575. Typing--fast, accurate and neat. _IBM Selectric--reports, theses, resumes, letters, etc. Call Kathy Rasimal! 371-2975, FOR SALE be at least 18 years old and U.S. For Sal~: Commencement Citizens (Peace Corps) Qr Cap and Gown, women's, not perma;nent residents (VISTA), tall; worn only once (J'!lne '78). receive livirlcg expenses, , Half-price ... save! Call 374- tran.sportation, training and 3600, evenings .only. m~dteal benefits. Anyone in- .- terested in either program should call Dot<?tllY Sullivan now collect at (716) 263-'5896 for an interv·iew appointment during her visit to this area. The Placement Offi~e has a supply· . of literature In the office. Honeywel:l.--Hone ywell Residential Group is actively seeking candid~tes for their Sales Re;j>resentatives openings. These positions are available nationwide. Additional 1nformation · available in Placement. Cerama~eal, Inc.--New Lebanon Center, N.¥.12126 are seeking a Tools and Methods Engineer. Work involves methods, tools design, ' pr?~edure s-specification, wntmg, drafting, cost estima~i:t!_g, eq-uipment evaluat1on-c on trol, plant engineering-maintenance, Some experience preferred .. E.E., M.E., or I.E. should send , resume~ including a college transcnpt, and safary desired to Ceramaseal, attention: Paul Ost, General Manager. Office of General Services, State of New York, are recruiting engineers for their summer program both locally ana in New Y<>rk City. This is a ful\-time on the job training in, Engineering. Please contact Anne C. Furman, Affirmative Action Officer at (5.18) 473-7349 for further information or stop by Placement. Elean.or Roosevelt De·velopmental Services-- Balltown anci Consaul Roads- We have applications available for interested students for summer employment with ERDS. They run a summer camp program. for their more involved clients and will need an assistant camp director, general counselors and specific activity leaders for arts and crafts, nature studies, swim- ming, and aquatic sports and fitness and gross-motor programs, plus other positions. Please get in touch with Midge Horowitz, Recreation Therapist at (518) 370-7370 if you have any questions. Perfed \Grad\ or ''Thanks M?m and Dad'' gift: With you i~ mmd. Ask to see it at the Campus Store! For Sale: Dishwa~her, por- .. table G ,E., 1 yr. old, $100; drum, $20; guitar, $10-374-9427. HELP WANTED ' ' . AJ!ybody interested in helping 1 ?Ut m any way at Camp Union 79 on Saturday, May 26, please conta~t Peggy Fonte (3f.0-6866). Help 1s ~tgently needea. . Position available im· mediately-- IBM- Al}Jany- is seeking applicants to fill a Marketing Representative position. Applicapts must: -Be a senior fall term '79 (or second year Graduate student) -Have communication skills -Be agressive' . --Have ability to grasp technical material or a technical background. Starting Date: Mid June through end of summer. Full· time position. For more in· • formation contact Mitzi Glenn, AOP Office, 370-6115. LOST Lost: 1 . pr. ~old wire rim gla~ses. If founi:l, please call , Hilary.; 382-9159. . Lo'St: White Moonlighter : • Frisbee in front of Richmond, . Tuesday 5-1 afternoon. If found · please call Deb at 382~9545. 'I ~ rhurs. -Sat. SALE May 3 - 5 10% OFF ·' Our already Low Prices For All M~rchandise Over $10 (For Union students OnlY with I.·D.) Com~lete Line of Sportswear and Swimwear Courtslde Tennis· & ·Ski (acr.oss from Joshua's) l.624 Upper Union 372-5558 Open: 10-~Mthru S Friday 1ill8 • a .. PERSON To Mediein€ Breath: The Isles v. till they met The Ranger with the ut11 and brought City. Keep ( Congrats fo To the ·~ Club-nice 1 Peter~On Hurryupwi make it bit To Qebbi Mike-just 1 and Alice. P.T., are SpringbrE hoop with t Jeff C.-i parents g~ edition of 1 Debbie- I big white 1 Swimrni~ for the les: Marie--1 sometime- Happy B Cookie To Medt and most c Isles were Rangers, 1 them in t Monsieur this cha1 SpringsteE Shelley- night, bu1 because VI you're fur A.S.--qu taller tha1 Jill-I'm fun talkin CRAMl mers rec~ Et> \Q STEIN-I duel HP' SHINC days till Sarah- Ws just t about Y• sweatsl}il Debbie you a p1 sonal wi great ti here.\ Randy hiring a spring. A.S.-c name rE

lg lll . se . ) ' n· is a ve or lt) Us sp a .ne Jll· in· nn, r!JU call ' tter >nd, ,und · 5 • , OONCORDI!J1NSIS, May 3, 1979 Page 13 clasaifieos . . PERSONALS To Medicine, Moose, and Bird Breath: The Isles were sitting pretty, till they met the true and gritty-- The Rang~rs destroyed, with the utmost poise-- and brought Lord Stanley to .the City. SPRINGSTEEN Keep Gues.sing, Re:gs. ~congrats fot whatever: F + G To the Martha Coburn .Fan Club-nice reunion; ·eh7??!!?! Peter~Only 8 more months.\ Hurry up with the diamond-and. make it bit! Laurie To Debbie, Danny, Hannah, Mike~ just like Bob, Carol, Ted, and Alice. P.T., are you involved? Springbreath-~go for the old hoop with the prep! Jeff c.~is it trtie that -your parents get · the hard--cover edition of TV Guide? . Debbie-Have you seen my big white bowl~-M Swimming Instructor~ Thanx for the lessons.· . _ Marie-Qlet's get together sometime~J. Happy Birthday Daddy-Love Cookie To Medbreath, Moosebreath, and most of all, Birdbreath--the Isles were sitting pretty till the Rangers, tough and gritty met them in the ·semis, destroyed Monsieur Denis, and gave me this chance to be witty.-- Springsteen Shelley-Good luck Saturday night, but you dop't need it because we think and you kow you're funny!-ME A.S.--question No. 2, . is she taller than you? Jill-l'm glad your back, it's fun talking to you!--M CRAMES--Used any ham- mers recently? A WIRE NUT. . -... ED \QUICKDRA W\ BORN- STEIN-I challenge you to a duel. HP's at 20 paces. Q SHINGLES--Only 9 mote days till INS. Q Sarah~ I'm sorry . . . really. lt 1 s just that I enjoy teasing you about your STUPID orange sweatsl}irt. Debbie S.-8i!lce I didn't send you a postcard, I hope a per~ sonal will do ... \'Having a great time, wish you were here.\ '\Barbara~How's the cabana business? ~ME J. Scett~while it is given that JAPS go to Cohoes Mfg., don't preps also frequent' this establishment? BERD'-Now that the MCA T's are over-with, we~lcorne back to the g.ood life and live it up! M. C. Big Bird~ Thanks for caring.·· You're ·a true friend. I.Qve, Minim us To the Campus'-How about getting some culture on Sunday- -go to the Women's. and Men's Glee. Club Concert! Don't be a . nerd and miss it!! Lore\'-Have the happiest Birthday ever~ Love from your · friends: Joanne, Ellen B., Ellen G., Margaret, M.C., . and Kathryn: Demmie--You sweet, .em- braceable Hugh! Mildly Crazy RWW--Why do .birds wake up so early? 72959 Pam-Have you found any ''interesting\ magazines lately? !-J BAK & GAJ-And who talked about Mitch & Kahe's fling.?! What CHI PSI puckster, was spotted in .PRAG at SDT on Saturday night???? Miss Logical: Dinner .for 2, Mother Ferro's, Tuesday, May 8? Love, Mr. Emotion Ed \Quick-Drav.\ Bornstein- ! challenge you· to a showdown. HP's- at 20 paces. Shingles~only l6 oays till INS. Q Crames~Used any hammers recently? A wire nut. Only two more weeks till the D.U. Fabulous 50's Party. 319 D-nice job on the room! Love the maintenance! Mr. Man-HBMPDF! Sev-ens-Happy Birthday 21! Ernso,-an awfuily funny place to park your car! . --~---------------- ~ Munchel~Next year if I wor\t for N.Y. Bell, do we still have to get dial-a•visit??? L. Ellen k:S.--question No. 3, does she dress preppie? Steve Grill--here's your personal personal-the typist Any information about the gorgeous blond that drives around in the blue Z-28; would be greatly appreciated by several males oil Campus. We would like to get to know her. Thank you .• D.C.S., Finally! Mrs. L. Randy-! bear that they're Boston·-Smile--Th:ngs can hiring at Jack-in-the-Box this only get. better- · · spring. Pat'-- If you aren't animal, A.S.-question No. l-is her vegetable, or mineral; what are name really Sue?. you? Attention Union Students! ~ union l$oo'k '79 All Campus Pjdure Tuesday, May 1S, 1979 1 f?.m. West Lawn Ra ih Date: Thursday, May 17 Order your Union Book now! Seniors $5 Others $8 PC-got any more violent games to t~aeh me-EvD Rumor has it that a certain_ red-head sleeps with a male and a female land they·aren't both human.J · Mira~Herman misses you! Dirtball--ever hear of a ~elephone? I miss )~ou! N.C. PSK-DPTBA talmostJ PSl.S! gator . Cinders: . . . ascot made of silk? Tom-one, two, three, BOOM! --.-------~~~- Pug~: Ay'U loan you my seester reel cheep . . . Pam: He's cute, he's cute! If you don't Wl;lnt him, we'll take him! ESP It's VD and don't you forget it! Q.WG: is your .parac,hute in working order? We'U have to try it .sometime if we get sick of four-wheeling. Love., P. Lasagna &nd fruitbat soup. Ywn! City Slicken no, it doesn't flush! Tom-Hope you're enjoying your new Scout:-Pam Animal: a question mark, of course! (?) p.s. you really are a viscious spoons player. Paul~here's your personal ... you play a good bass-what else -do you do well? me Michele-The'- Birthday art- work is on the way. E.T~A.­ Early May. SENIORs~-come to your senses! This is the time to party with your firends, whom yoU- may never again be able to be with. Get the hell out of the library! ~---------------~ Headman-Did you know that a seasoned witch eould call you from the .depths of your disgrace? Fletch~Now that it costs only ·n dollars, we-can tempt fate every weekend! ' Breakfast in Montreal? .. Haddock~What? No fish on Satutday?--The Hsif ·Com- mittee. Attention-The Lance Bobrow Fan Club will be in Chicago, Indi~napolis, Boston, N. YLC., and Schenectady next year. SARAH--I'm sorry ... really. It's just that I like teasing you about your stupid orange sweatshirt DEBBIE.....Since I didn't send you a postcard, I hope a per- sonal will suffice ... \Having a great .time, wish you were here. •: Dear G;:~ry: I don't just sit around all d9.y making cat farts. Why, just this morning, I threw up on your pillow~Plopsie. Gingerich. • • Contiiltred from pagt· 5 popularly on astronomy in several ·encyclopedias and journals, and he is widely known as the editor of a collection of Scientific .. American articles entitled New Frontiers in Astronomy. He serves as Associate Editor of the Journal for the History of Astronomy and on the Editorial Board of the American Scholar, Happy birthday to you, happy birthday to you, happy birthda~ dear · Cfleep•Stor, happy t.Ji.J - thday to you. ~ttention, Union Colleg<· . R£'gistrar: addendum on Mr. G. Glauber's transcript, page two, should read ''NOT tun- sferraule n· year abroad coursE- credit.\ Thank you--Antioch College. -~-- - _ _..... ___ . ------- nom DeMarco, Bill DiConza and Brad Fisher are full of hot air. or they had. too many bakeu beans and coke at lunchtime. Lets here it fo1· the thermal riUers! 1 Is it really better than sex, Karen~ the Phi Beta Kappa quarterly. At Harvard he teaches Natural Sciences 9, an astronomically oriented general education course for non-scientists. On Saturday, May 5, at 10 a.m . in the Schaffer Library Music Room. Dr. Gingerich will discuss his census (locating all known copies) of Copernicus's great work De Revolutionibus. -LSAT/GMAT- Test f·or a LifetiDle a·e Prepared .lohn Sextoo•s I.SAT A GMAT Courses John Sexto(l 7~t Preparation crJurses offer vou dt<tincr ad- 118f1tages tn prepa-ring for these all imponanr tests: e&est. mast recent material$ esu~antiw curricula I not just timings ) • Team iMtruction by a sup&riOI' ,f~~a~lty •Practice exams eCounseling e\Liw\ instruction I not iust tapes I e Substantial study materials e Extra · help sessions e LSAT/GMAT Classes now forming Compare John Sexton Course advantages with others, then for information call ~ .. 'JJ~ut ~t~J«~ ~ .TEST PREPARATION CENTERS 1723 Central Ave., a·59 734·6 Colonie, N.Y. 12205 - . _ • CALl: 783-2536 AR:IY'· RDTC. THE Ill-YEll PRD.AI.

,, ( Page 14 CONOOBDI]JJNSIS, Mqy 3 .. 19'19 Cla:ss Of '79 Jobs Scoreboard, Job Offers No. Students \No.. Of.fers Dept. Salaries .,... No. Accepted by LAURIE MIN'f'Z Of the 403 students in the graduating class of 1979; 31 seniors have reported accepted their job offers to the .Placement Office. Fig\ll'eS are not. yet cotnpiled on the students who are going on to graduate school. The Placement Office is presently aware of 176 job offers that 'have been made for the coming year to the 255 Seniors who are registered there. Some students have had multiple offers~ partiwlarly the Mechanical Engineering majors. The range of offers that has been made to the graduating Seniors extends. from $10,500 to $21;800 per year. Tlle majority of seniors who have received their job offers did so· through the plE.~cement · office. Twenty-two students have received offers from companies which they . con- tacted themselves. The placement office receives. job offers from all over the United States. Seniors who are registered with the office are informed of available jobs in their fields. Information con~ cerning every company and graduate school in the U.S. on file .. The services provided at the Career Counselling and Placement Office, however, are not only for · seniors. Sophomores and J Wliors are urged to come in and find out about intern pr_pgrams and the requirements for future jobs. The placement office is presently unsure of what the remaining. Three hundred seventy-two Seniors· will be doing next year. Betty Good- man, the· Director of the Placement and Career Collil- seJUng Genter, urges ~11 seniors to .infortn her of their plans. Seniors who have not yet dotle so are also urged to register with the office for the useful services which are available . there, for according to Betty Goodman,. ··were great, but no one knows it\ Mechanical Engi!leer E;lectrical En~)'ineer Ci vii Ertgineer Computer Science .l11dustrial E::conomy Mat:hemati.c;:s ~conomks Physics . Psy(:hology Political Science English History lnterdept Total 30 28 28 14 6 6 20 6. 24 36 17 15 46 ·- 67 41 6 2· 2 l 1 2 1 l l 18 l76 $17,000- $2i<042 $17;()0- $21,800 . $14,()00- $16,8()0 $16,660. $19:,.000 $14,400. $]J,400 $11,000 $16,000, $1'3;.000 $14,l60+bonus $16,.~00 $1.1,5()0 $10,500- $19,000 __ 12 9 0 0 ,- 1 0 . l . 0 2, :n P & P .. Update Continued. • • ·~ Continued from page 1 amOWlt, added to $30,000 from . · endowment revenue and compared to the rink's allot- ment of $214,000· points to a deficit of $34,000; ThiS figure .includes $I3.,000 (of the $214,000) allocated each year for depreciation o£ rink machinery,- and iS put in a separate fund. This~fund. will be used when necessary, and so it is not spent each year. · , · Th~n, Aubrey asked if any provisions were being made to prevent a deficit from oc- curring each year. Hauser explained that So-90 ·percent ticket sales at . hockey games woUld be needed to balance the budget. Alternative uses .of tbe rin)i are being explored ~r when the ice is not down. In addition, Hauser said that· the ''College had to be careful to maintain current· contract~ to counteract J!Ompetition\ from newly built rinks iJ1 the area~ · argumen~ in favor of it was the that when posit!ons are. empty ftmdraising duetohockey ticket and are ... to be refilled, fhe · sales. Headdedthat with tbl$ no m&tter,slioula be brougbt tothe Jonger. a major factor, Union ~ attention- of. the P&z;P. lhe must find other sources of rationale for this,~ he said, was S\!pport:-The ice is d!!wn seven that any expenditures are a . months of .. the year, and, he consideration of P&P~ As· the said, we must findother u$es for situation had not be~n broll:ght the rink during thi~ time,. and be to P&P, he requested car,eful not to \saddle\ h(\ckey_ ·clarification o:f th~ ·entire with fh:e fundraising. He als<> matter from Prov<1st Huntley as)te<l if use of the rmk .for the and Mr. Hauser. . otner five months had been Hauser pointe.., _put that· last investigated, Hauser re.pUed'- year -President Bo9ner _ap- that there arev problems. and proved a. poljcy which\ was a ''Serious ·limitations'' .and vesuU of P&P ·passing~ a \wor~mg around them night be resolution (the one referred to bard.\. I QY Schwat7i aoove), which~ did Union Views. • • PrQf. Thomas said he thQught that the. Board of Trustees was committed to balancing . the ririk'shudget, and he asked how this woUld be done. Huntley- responded that it may not be -hard Assistant to the Provost Dw.i.ght Wolf said that in. making the budget balance'; the College would have to be careful, .and that whichever methods were used must be to the benefit of the school. Dean \f Students Office Prof. Schwarz then brought up the possible reorganization of the Dean of Students Office and the pOSSible appointment of an Associate Dean of Students. He indicated that last year the P&P Committee made a point not stipulate that F&P in par- ticular should be cont~cted. The proposal, as passed by P&P last. year, is:. that no pOsition wllich has peeom.e vacant will be filled without a careful review of current and· future needs CJnd resources. Such action woUld allow for reductions via plan· ning, · without the .·necessity of Contln,ued fro~ .page 2 \' While a 16uyear-old may be ab1e to consume alcoholic beverages to. pass himself as 18, so the in : •. Aubrey cornmentedthat when the rink was initially con- structed, one of the convincing thinking goes, he'd have a much As for deciding the matter, harder time convincing anyone let's sit down, have. a. beer, and he''s 20 or 21. think long and hard about it. , That's all well and good, but it releasing people. · · also seems to miss its mark, if that, indeed, is the regulation's prime intent. Why penalize college students for the tran- sgressions of their juniors? If it's reglllation of young persons' drinking that's sought, why not address the pr,oblem directly, with stricter en· forcement of existing laws? By theoretically barring consumption of booze among 18 and 19-year-olds, the legislature would only be creating a hassle for the.se individuals, and would be creating another potential problem area, as well. Advocates of such a move may argue, and rightly so, that enactment of this regulation won't really do much tG deter consumption among those who could do it legally under . the present laws. · They say that beer and drinks will still be available at fraternity· and other ·such private parties. (The idea of requiring pro()f to attend a fraternity's social,}unction is somewhat ludicrous.) College students will probably have little trouble obtaining liquor, but there's another side to this, too. Unable to buy booze on their own, students~will be encouraged to drive to another. state, where the drinking age is still 18. The morbid results of this practice have already been proven in states that have already rasied the drinking age: a rash of auto accidents involving teen-agers returning across the state line. This is a touchy issue, especially for an interested party. like myself. And the· questions probably aren't as clearly definable or 'black and white as I've presented them. But one fact remail(s certain. Those persons entitled to fight for this country ·and elect its leaders should also be allowed OA's 1979~ ,> . Continu.ed• from pa-ge 1 A$ tbe possibl~ rebrganizat~on , . e ~. of. the Dean of St11dents Offlce might· cre-ate an addit·ional administrative post, Prof. · ' · - · Phaup _said that there was Of the $750,000 energy bill ithe turning off of lights, etc.) frequent concerti _ about incurred by the College this past have been· shown fu. other ''tWisting of proporitioris\ of year, approximately, $450,000 colleges to save up to ltrpercent total salaries and nwnbers of went to the purchase of fuel oil• of energy costs.\ faculty., -compared t(J ad~ for the production of · steam ministration. It appeared t<i him heating for an-campus heat~ng The energy program- is cited that there had been. placed a The following pepple . have and about $300,000 was elec- by Hauser a·s \a very \lid on faculty\ and that there been ,selected as· Orientation tricity usage expense. The sig:nificant step in ~he. right was no similar \lid\ 011 ad· Advisors for Orientation 1979: \E n erg Y · C 0 n s·e r vat i 0 n direction as· far as energy ministratO\rs. He felt that the Susan Barnhart, Peri Basel, Progra~\ estimates that up to ·conservation is concerned.'' He faculty ·feel \tight'; teaching Denise Boucher,, Debbie $70,000 per: year (approx. 10 adds that '.'we're doing what - large num})ers of stlldents in a percent of current costs) couln many other ~mall schools in the 1 · B, onsteirt, Lynda Castrucci, Liz b d h h . .h d . ,.,. . f h c ass. . Catalano, Robin Cornick, · e save t roug a conscious Nort east are ·. omg. v11e () . t e Aubrey. then asked . f{)r the Megan Cummings~saxton, effort on ~he part of th~~llege · major, thltrgs· that· we' riee.d is ·report referred to by Runtley Kelly Dennin, Vivian Farrell,. eommumty to use energy ·awareness, public ~ an- above from. Wolf, and asked Debbie Feldman, Donna wi~ely. Hauser claims that nouncementJ of the role the thafthe last seven years should Giannone, Sue Glaser, Barbara \operational measures (the . campus plays in energy con-. t)e include.d in a modification of closing of· doors and w-indows, servation.',.. · · r. • · rt ·n· b · de Gothelf, Lisa Heitner, Susan 1t. 'J'he repo w1 e ma Kaplan, Blaina Kaplan, 'Regan ... · ... ~ .... ... ... . ~ available to the committee Krutick, Cheryl Lav-igne> Liaa ·•r~~-e~~~~. ~~~~.~~~e.--oe.--o~~e-~-~e-~~<>--oe---.e_--.e_~-~H~ within a week; .~W'fllf said. Lenz, Alyssia Levitt, Barbara ., .Forever young Hai'r ~esign l . ·.bAoudbyreza. dasgkr·oe!rnifretcheentl~t .. uwde~} Livingston, Beth Loose, Laurie u ·.... J! Merrill, Karen Monteith, Kim 1 741 Eastern Avenue ·{shortwalkftomColleg.e>. < replied that it-bad not grown Nogay, Connor O'Brien, Peggy < ·. · 0 · significantly in the past four O'Rourke, Mandy PbiHips, 38~-8490 years. Huntley added tbat by Barb Plotkin, Carole Reinig, . < Spec1.alist in Precision Cuts for Women & Me.n - \squeezing.. in a few eX!ra Randi Ribakove, Cathy Rusik, < Henna, Perms, Frast, CQ.Ior students ·each yeal\ the Nan.cl: Shfdeler, Marabeth < Re-asonable Rates college's budget .is. often Soltis, Beth Sullivan; Dana Open Tues ... Sat. Flexible Hours balanced; Thau,. Debbie. !futtle, Karen . ' · ~ydegger, who had. com- Weisberger, Tamie Wolfson/ , Call Now For Your Spring Style! , mun:icated with Dean of Mike Arato, Mike Bacco, i3ruce -, M;\l n Y to Choose From. Students · Kellett, pointed out Beni, Bob Brewster, Mark ~\\'e-~~~~-e-~~-e--~~~~~~. ~-~ .... ~'!'\'<~'!~~~-~'!~.\\=~~'~ ... ~- ~ .. H~~~,.. . ....t!! that the matter . of a pdssible .Burnett, Steve Cardamone, Ken - · r,eorganization of the Dean of c. layton,., Ro .. ·be. rt Colbu,. Jack · · · PR. EP~ A.o·e·· p·\oR· j.) OUr A Students .Office had been Donohue, David Eppl~r. Ken ·M· . ·c·l,.·· .• a· ·a··r .. ··. L\.'sl· r· ·=.·-_ .. ft .. l·· .... ··v!~]J brought to the Board s~ ~hat Gold, Jon Green, David Han- ll. ... UDI 11 ~ Kellett cou1d.get some reactton. dler, Matt Hicks, Robert Imrie, .'GRE. • .O· C.· ·I'~ • . 1 ... I .... ' • .SlY· · · l?eopl¢ on campus assumed that Steve Klinger, Joseph Laurin, tl 11 11 it was going to the Board for Donald Lippmant Matt Lubart, · . approval, he Said. Larry Mariasis; Steve Marks, Flexible .Pragrams & Hours Next, thecommiitee went into Chris McCarty, BIU M~Neice, · '!'here ISA 4ifferen~eltl executi.ve session, where Seth Mendelowitz, Joel Meyer,· Provost ~Huntley broadlY Jose Miralles, Kevin Murdock, 'Albany Center l ~41 outlined the· JM>SS'ible changes i Andy Newman, .C}larlie' l63 Delaware Ave. - IIIPIJIN' that· Dean Kellett had been Oppenheimer, Dong Rosenfeld, · Del mar . . · .. . . considering; Members of the M. i. chael Rothberg· , Bruce phone C518) 439~8146 · EoucAr•o. NAL CENT.EA .~ committee contacted after the· 'llw · · . TEST PIIEPAIIATIOiif · ha re Rubin, Richard Simons; J,YJ.atC - · · sPECrAusrs s•~~~c~t93e · meeting said t t they \'\'~ Snapper, Andrew Sobel, David Outside N.Y,State Only CALL .TOLL FREE:·eD0·223·1782 satisfied with the .expianat1on Stern, Daniel Storch, . Hugh Cerlters In M~lor us Cities Toronto, Pllerto Rico and l.tigano, $Witterli~d which Huntley bad given to Walsh, .Andy Weitzman, and them. Jeff Winter. -~ - Athl• Matt I bioengine4 worked on the areas training; .i bobsledte his fourth for ~nion .As a fr his first hurdle rE winning t State Me time af15 he bh\lkE since 1951 'hi his .f sop)lomoJ yard hi~ record ti the Ind(] Meet, he the 60 y~ seconds. the new~ I

j ' e a d· .a eY of id. bY ten of ()Ut of that for intO jeen the tbe to .C.QNC()RD[EN;~lS 1 May 3, 1979 · . . AthJe.f& Of The Week: Matt Blum out, c:m March 17th, Matt won the Indoor New York State Meet while .setting a new meet and Union College record in the Union Memorial Fieldhouse with a time of 6.8 seconds. • · Matt Blum is a senior bioenginebi'ing major. He has worked onthebob~led project in the areas of team selection and training. A brief member of the bobsled team, he chose to finish his fourth year ·of high hurdling for \Mnion College in~tead. As a freshman. Blum broke his first Union College high hurdle .record on his way to winning the Outdoor New York State Meet at Oneonta with a time of 15.3 seconds. The record he bi~oke. had been -$tanding since 1956 fl5.4 seconds). College records. Ot.!tdoors that year, he went on 'to lower his own record to 14.8 ~econds whic;h qualified him for the Division III Nationals. His first titne there, and running against the likes of superstar :Ed:win Moses, Matt finished 17th. Byhisjunioryear, Matt was a force. to beseckoned with, but injuries kept him dowrt for a good part of both the indoor and outdoor seasons. StHfhe won the Indoor New York State Meet in a new Cortland Frieldhouse recQrd. . There is one fact of which Matt is especially proud-he has never lost a home track meet either indoors or outdoors. This week as AtHLETE OF TH'E WEEK, Matt once again entered the record. books. This tiine he scored in yet another deCisive victory earning a new outdoor record. With some favoring winds at S.U.N.Y. At\.. Albany, he h~gh hurdled a 14.5 .for the 120 yeard high hurdles. This qualifies . him . for the Page 15 .tJport5 In his first lndtitlr season as a sophomore, Matt ran the · 55 yard high hurdle in a~ new record time of 6 •. ~ seconds. At the Indoor New York ·State Meet, he set a meet record ih the 60 yard high hurdles in 7.4 seconds. In doh:-\ <5o, he also set the newSt. ba\' ce ·and Union Starting-with an lnvitationa} meet in December, Matt has displayed the kind of hurdling · a biUty to h;l.Ve his name en~ shrilled 'in the record books. In his second year at the prestigious IC4A. meet at . I?rin(!eton, ,he finished a tremendous 7th. The nexf week . outdoodC4A's at the University of Pennsylvania~ and the DiviSion HI ,Nationals in Ohio. His time lowers the previous record by 0.4 seconds. · Ma:tt Blum t1~ft) with teammat~ Jim Gaffney. - .. -. . / .. • • • • • • I • Dom ino·'s Pizza got;~ crazy fQr Parents' Weekend! May J.thru May 9,1979 Whataweek for you! · F;:tst free d-elivery 3073 BroadwaY 1 382-3838 \ ~-~---------~----------~--------- I l $1.· I I I I I I I I I J One Dollar Off! Free Fresh Sausage!. I The m[ssing link? I On Thursday, May 3 only Any large Pizza One coupon per pizza Fast free delivery 3073 Broadway 1382-3838 On Friday, May 4only · On any large Pi:tza One coupon per pizza- $.75value '3073 Broadway, 382-3838 1 .----- -·-- --------- -----·--- -- ---~--·----· Free Mush· :rooms On Saturday, May S.only On any .large Pizza One coupon per pizza $.75 value 3073 BroadWay, 382-3838 I I i I I I I I 1 -. ·--- ~ ------ ~--- ,.... ___ ~-- -~--- ---~-- ...... -- ..... - ...... . . . I I \ I 1. I I I Three Free Pc:i:psls. On Sunday 1 May 6 only With any large Pizza One coupon per pizza $1.05 value 30~3 Bro~dway 1 382-3838 l--------------- .... --- --·---·-·-- ___ , _____ -· ~ ~· ~- ·· OnMonday,May7only I . ~ .·. .. Free w.·ith a. nylarge Pizza 1 ·. tt'f.~· . . ·-.··._ .· .. Small Onecoltponperpi~z:a I .. · - Cheese - $2.95 value . I' ' .· · i. Pizza 307·3 Broadway, 382-3838 l . . ' . L------------------~-------------- double double double double Free Double Crust On tuesday1 May 8 only .... ·. . 1 With any large Pizza One coupon pel\'pizza $1.00 value 3073 ,Bf1o.adway, 382-3838 On Wed., May 9only With c;~ny large Plz:za One coupon per pizza $l.OOval.ue lntra- m.urals by ED WARP MARRINAN and MIKESCO'IT The spring intramural soft-. ball lell.gue is in full swing now and each division boasts at least one undefeated team. In the first division of the A league, Fiji \A\, led by Jim Monnat, Carmin Sagtinario, and Bill Steemburg, ~s tied with' the Sigma Chi Blue team beaded by the big stick of Keith Miller, and the pitching of Rick Mirabito. the co-leaders of the second division in the A league are Sigma Chi Gold No. 1 and the Faculty, each with records of 3- o. In the B softball league, Phi Sig Red, behind the pitChing of Mike Czarnecki, andthe hitting of Ed Hurley and Randy Klein, are tied with the Barry Simon, Matt Hicks led Fiji B Team at 2· 0 for the Fraternity divi$ion leac:l. 'Drew Liartopoulos, Jim Lipman, and the Tannenbaum brothers have , led .the Southerners to a 2-0 record and undisputed lead of the D division. Other undefeated B league teams are the· Panteras, the Hicks, and the Hounds, all at 2~. . Key games this week will be between Sigma Chi Blue and Fiji 11 A 1 ', Phi Sig Red and Fiji \B\, and the Pant eras vs, the Hicks. . In girls action, the DG CCR'.s, - the pre-season favorites, held true to form as they romped \'over the North Stars in their opener 22-1 . In. men's lacrosse,. Psi U and ADPbi look~d very strong in winning their opening garnes, they could be the teams to beat. The Sigma Chi Blue team leads men's volleyball with a 2-o record, as they too have looked tough in the early season matches . Co-Ree Softball, frisbee, and the singles tennis tourney will all be getting underway -this week. Events to.look ofr in the future are, Badmiton Doubles this Thursday, May 3, and a boxing tournament May 8. Those interested may sign up in the Intramural Office by the · day before the event. NOTE: CHI PSI \A\ championship basketball te2:n is currently· competing in the Schlitz Capital District ex· trarnural games, and was scheduled to . play in the finals Wednesday, ·May 2, against a 3073 Broadway, 382-3838 ~------------------------~------------------------------------------~--r-~1~--------~ strong Siena Intermural Squad. ' /

. ) Page 16 OONOQRDlENSIS, May /1, 1979 eporte Lacrosse Ups Record by TIM SULUV AN The Union College lacrQsse team saw its record extended to 2-8 thiR week by virtue of a win -oveJ Albany St. and disapJiOintiw, losses to RPI and S~ rat•USt! · he scores were 7-U agail!Si -\1 Jany .st., 12-4 against i~PI ano :..:8-3 against Syracuse. Against Albany St. Union Wf:\S victorious for only the second time this season, the other win • ·oming against Morgan St. of Haltimore. Daley Field was the ' ite for the contest. Union }illnpE;!d out to a 3·1 lead in the t 1rst period as Greg Steiner \'dndwiched a goal between two -.cores by Jim Wright, Wright, Steiner, and Jim Glavin • .. :ollected assists on the goals. In the second period the Union ,iefense held through two man- down situations before Greg· Steiner connected for a score on pretty passing by Neil Kanner and Rich Romer. The half ended with Union leading 4-0, Alan Greenberg making ten saves in the Union nets. assist from Ro~ Sherman, making it 6-3. Albany St. was not ready to concede defeat,. nowever. After pulling to one within one goal at s.s; Gabe Marino tied the game with 0: 12 left to play. Union hopes for victory looked dim as Rich Romer was assigned to put the ball in play from midfield. Romer cradled the ball, decked a midfieldet, went around a defenseman and unwound a shot that sailed over the heStd of the Albany goaltender to give Union a hard fought 7-G·.victory. The Union te.~ra did not play well in this game, a contest whiCh many felt $hould have been won more flecisively. As the season goes on it becomes more obvious that Union lacks both experience and depth, a problem that cannot he blamed on either the players or Coach Meagher. The fault lies with the Athletic Department\s inability to find a permanent ·lacrosse coach, and also the C()llege's reluctance to redesign and maintain the unbelievably bush league facilities, which hinders any attempts to recruit scholastically qualified high school lacrosse standouts. games this year, providing .a . large share~f the Union of· fense. RPI jumped out to what proved to be an insurmountable 5-0 lead. Jim Wright scored two goals for lJ:nion, while Rob Sherman and Rich Romer chipped in with a goal apiece. Their linemate Bill Wade collected two assist on the day. Neil Kanner also collected an assist. Alan Greenberg ac- counted for ·seventeen saves for the DUtchmen. This past Tuesday afternoon I)ivisi.on 1 No. 9 ranked Syracuse came east to Daley Field and proceeded to conduct a stick clinic around. the Union crease. Union jumped out to a short-lived'-2..() lead on goals by Jim Wright and Dana-:-Johnston. Syracru;e then r.an .off a string of fifteen unanswered goals before the halftii:n.e whistle sowtded. The second half was dominated by a S)Tacuse, scoring thirteen times on fifteen shots. Tim 0 1 Hare Jed the Syracuse attack with six goals and an assist, followed by Sammy \Spinola with five goals. Freshmen standoUt Jitn Wri~ht scored his second and Union's third and final goal~at 2:1.3 of the t.hird quartef. _, Union .went scoreless in the third period while Albany St. narrowed the deficit to two goals. Ben Bernadetto scored the two goals for Albany St. in the peri:od. Things started getting very interesting in the fourth period. At 6: 36 of the fourth Louie Dambrosky of Albany scored from out in front to make it 4•3. Ten seconds later Rich Romer responded with a score to push the lead back to two goals:· Within a minute Romer scored a~ain on an On Saturday the Dutchmen traveled to scenic Troy lot a game against arch rival RPI. The fired up RPI squad won the game 12-4. Union was forced to play for three quarters without the services of star attackrnan Neil Kanner, sidelined· with something called Datitis. Kanner has scored 23 ~oals in 8 Tennis Dumps Skidmore Var. Baseball Var. iennis Va r. Lacrosse J.V. Lacrosse Var. Track May 3-9 May3atSiena (N) May Svs. Middlebury (2) May Bvs. Albany May 4 vs. Colgate May 9 vs. Middlebury. May 5 vs. Hamilton May 8 vs. Williiims May 5 vs. ttamilton May avs.Williams May 5 Colgate lnv, by \ADUKI\ BORG Last week Union~s Tennis Team annihilated Skidmore's Men's Tennis by a score of 9-0. This win brings Unions record to 2-S. The match saw all of Union's 11 team member come up winners. Coach Inderjit Singh said that he wanted to see ful participation because as he put it, \I have a lot of con- fidence in this years team; we have a lot of depth .. \ Because of Union's obvious superior ability it is difficult to single out any one spectacular performance. Roy Lipson had a strong win at munber one singles. He .was pulled through by an exceptional serving day, to win 6-2, 6.;3. Jon .Levin· Epstein, playing at number two singles, came back strong in the second .to win 6-4, 6·1. Tbird singles player, Jeff Cohen, coming off of an injury from a flying beer bottle, had a more difficult· time but none-the-less outlasted his opponent 6·2, 7-6. He seems to have gotten over his injury and is ready to come back at full strength. Doug Burns playing at nl.liilber four singles was the first man off of the court on .Wednesday with a big 6·1, 6-0 victory. Doug hit some strong passing shots that helped along his lopsided vic- tory .. Barry Rosenberg, after a disappointing opening match against Hobart; ·.showe(l. how power tennis is to be played. With blazing serves and tremendous forehands he overpowered his opponent s~2, 6- l. Senior Andy Neissen, in bis debut match used his well known .steadyness to easily beat his Skidmore counterpart. 6-1, 6- 1. . In the doubles, the ·undefeated te~ of Doug Burns and Tom Listina c~ntinued their winning ways with an easy 6-0, 6·2 romp. Rolf Lipton and Gary Tuter Women's Lacrosse May 4at Russell Sage May 7 vs. Williams May 5vs. Colgate May 8 at Albany Ruggers Even . took the number one doubles in a tough ~3, 7-& victory. The closest match of the day sawthe debut match for both junior Ed Horstman and Freshman Stu Boyer. This match went down to the very end with Ed ripping a crosscourt forehand winner at 4-4 in the third set tiebreaker to win the match by one point. Women's Softball Varsity Golf May 4 vs .. Siena May 7 Albany Invitational Baseball 5 - 7 byRlCHHOPE Rain kept the Dutchmen from much action this week, raining out games against · Utica (doubleheader) and Colgate, but it didn't cool off the hot Union bats. The dutchmen traveled to Hamilton Monday coming home with a 12·3 victory and a .500 rec01 · !. Fl'Osh Glen Kinns (3-1) went the distance to get the win; upping Union's record to 5-5 .. The game was one sided due to Union's solid hitting. Dave Adsit had two doubles and Joe Lavery had a double and a single, to lead the dutchmen attack. Kinns, Union's most consistent pitcher ~nrned in another strong performance. Tuesday, Union took the field at Central Park for a home doubleheader with. JX)werhouse LeMoyne. Ranked third in the state, Le Moyne displayed bow they had attainedtheir ranking, by handily sweepmg the two games. Union was shut out in the first game 9-0. Junior Joe Lavery took the loss (1-1) .. In the second game, Union continually threatened with baserunners, but c:;ould not get the key hits to bring home runs. The final score was 7-0. Sophomore Wayne Riker took the loss evening his record to 1• 1. The two defeats drop Union's record to 5-7. Union is back in action tonight (Thursday) wtder the lights at Bleaker Stadium against Siena. Union beat Siena 7-6 in a prior contest this year. The Dut- chmen will be back home Saturday · for a Parent's Weekend doublebeader against Middlebury. Bring your parents out to the ball'garne! At Two And Two by LETH R. BAL~ Another fine day weather· wise, coupled with a good-siZed crowd of spectators, set the backdropforSaturday's victory for the Dutchmen over ·the Albany· ''Old Green\ team. Union hosted the match against the much older Albany team, and for the majority of both games the Dutchmen dominated. U-Coll. got off to an early lead 'by capitalizing on a penalty called against Albany; a fine kick by Dave ·~zuk\ Zuckerman and Union was up by a score of3-0. Not much later some dazzling running by linemen Cliff .Ferrel and Lee Waxman ended in a \try\ to raise the tally to 7-0, Union over Albany. In the second half both teams played tough but the score remained the same througho11t. · Union's B-squad also played a tough game and as a result won it's first game of the seasort ~sit rolled all over the tired op- position. Final score of that contest, 10.0, this making it our second shut~out of the af- ternoon. Special mention this week goes to two dedicated regulars who were injured in Saturdays contest and are now forced to sit the remainder of the season out on the sidelines. Woodie, our team treasurer, left the field during the first half with a seperated shoulder. Later on; with a mere fifteen minutes left in the match fleetfooted Lee Waxman suffered a severe sprain to his right ankle as well as two torn ligaments. We wish them both a speedy recovery. A note on last weeks article: the score was misprinted; it shoulrl have read 12-10, Albany Law over Union, not 12-0. Be sure to be on hand this coming Saturday at 1:00 p.m. as the Union ruggers take on the newly ''engineered'' R .. P .I. rugby club (bring your calculators for score com- putations) in the first of a double-header especially for Parents Weekend. For the second game Union wlll host the Alumni · team, those diehard .soles who return eac;Jh y~ar to take on the incUIIl.bent ·rugby squad. There Will be free beer . on the sidelines as Union will ''try;; to make it3and2. See yo11 thete. - · Union'snext roatch is away at R.P.I. on Wednesday. They are at home this Friday against a well polished Colgate team. The team will again take the coqrts after Parents' weekend on Monday, May ·7, ·against Hart· wick followed by Middlebury at home on Wednesday. Parents: Take In A Ball Game Fitz H Union,· u \There the fac1 doome• begun t 1962 as 1966. To 11 Union ~ above: strike' point 1 experie the con has to earth a Union decisio And, t< also be the 011 ever though Ass1 many learne over t arrive \wtiql us no~ Weha remin in the furthe stude1 by 78 perio! perce New famil situat to a< essen resol1 read, shall thee: the shall teres and and elsev men Illtm par~ stud1 plac the Whi< and mee Trw exis stu< incl whil fore

J'ountkJ at -,Unio~ College 1877 '• Vol. 1 08, No~ 21 Schenectady, N.Y. Thursday, May 10, 1979 - Fund Drive Sets ReCord' J It~ 'i . N'·. I' \ ' . ' ~ Vice President ot College Resources Rdbert Ra.srriussen speaks'on the Fund Drive. by PAUL ,FEINSOT This year's annual fund drive by Union ,College has already set a record in the Annual Business campaign of $125,000 as opposed to $107,800 for the -previous year. Records are expected in the P;;lrents cam- .paign, which may double, and in the Alumni campaign also_, which will· ?fObably put the College -ahead of last year's total of 1.1 million dollars. Vice President for College Resources Robert Rasmussen calls this figure ''no small part of the budget,'' which for ·last year was $15 million. · The campaign itself has many componen.!_§; the largest and most important of which is the Alumni campaign which took in better than $550,000 last year. The percentage of total alumni who donate · money to the Stricter Guidelines by PAUL FElNSOT The Conduct .. Ombudsman Committee has released ''A GUide. to- Student Rights. and. Responsibilities.\ This pam- phlet is a statement .. of procedures for the submission of charges. a student conduct code, and an academic code. Dean Kellett regards the changes as primarily proc.edural, with the basic in- vestigative responsibility going to the Dean of Students office. He commented that in the past the committee has had so many cases thrown in its direction that · it _coUld J\Ot operate with any effectiveness. The Dean related that in the future Joe Zolner will take the place of the committee when it comes to deciding very obvious cases. Under this new plan ·the Ombudsm~n will not be tied up by routine \decisions. Kellett also mentioned that the College Governance Drafting Conunittee indicated that the Onibudsmen shoUld be made up of both students and faculty members. The studepts on the committee agree that this would take some of the pressure off of them, because in the pas~ students have evidently been~luctant to deal fairly and consistently With their fellow students. The Dean would also like to take a harder look at the actual regulations in the future, as the present regulations appear to him to be rather \vague.'' He asked,- \what is hal'assment '?\ Kellett also pointed out that there would have to be stricter guidelines m the governance proposal in regard to the ad- ministration of rules. This in- cludes the. defining of areas of responsibility in the broader areas of academic conduct and student coq,duct. As it stands now, both the Dean of Faculty's Office and the Dean ofStudents' Office hani:ne cases of academic dishonesty. . · statement must be written, and must ·include the violation, the names of the persons charged, names of witnesses, and the names qf those· making. the charge. There~- ar-e then ten separate p-rocedures which the conunittee and· the · Dean are· supposed t-<l follow in order to reach some final decision. One such example is this: Students. found guilty of violating standards may submit a- written ap)}eal to the chair- . person of the Student Life Committee if they fe.el that there is additional evidence to be considered at the original hearing or that the action taken by the Dean of Students is ex• cessive in view of the standard violated. Th.e. Student Life Committee may mat.e separate · recommeJtdatipns to the Dean of Stuf,)~l)ts concerning dispositioll of Ute ~ase or may reaffirm tile findings of the Conduct Ci)D11J1lttee ·and-or the actions of the Dean. This i13 a staU!meot\written by the Conduct-:Ombu'dsman Cornn'littee in regard to a specific procedure.. The third part .of the guide is the ''Student- Conduct Code,\ of which there are sev-.an pa~ticulars. One specific~tion is that: Every. Jllember of . the Union Colleg·e . community is GUARANTEED protection againSt and freedom from ·trodily l)~rm or threat to. bealth. VIOLA'l'ION OF~No member of, or members· of, the coUege community may· physically abuse or molest another member or outsider~ Moreover, . the College has an obligation to insure the Cl.)m.munity riJ.embei'S safety by maintaining its facilities, having _adequate / protection by its Security Department, and by aSS'IU\ing that a competent medical staff . is available. - · The last comp()nent of this pamphlet is the \Academic Code,'' in which the following is stated: As a student at Union College, I hereby dedic;~te myself .to living and working as part of the Union Community, and to supporting and upholding the following principles: 1. Academic openness and honesty 2. Awareness of and respect for others' rights as people- regardless of race~ creed, sex., age, o_r position 3. Dignity and pride in myself, my actions, and the CoUege. The new guide states that \allegations of misconduct must be· submitted t.o the ~ Conduct-Ombudsman Com- -f. mittee through the Office of the Dean of Students.'' The . .... _ .... - \.,. .. ·\'· .. Dean Kellet speaks on changes In procedure regardinp student rights ilfld responsibilities. · Colleg~ is about 50 percent, putting Union. within the top five. percent of all colleges in the country. This percentage has always been 'high says Rasmussen, and last year Union won an award for con- sistency in this area. ' The al~Jmni gifts are separated into three giving dubs: The Terrace ~Council, The Founders Society, and The Century Club. The Terrace Council consists af those alwnni who contribute $1,000 or more annually to Union College. Last year the CoWlcil contributed to the 66th Annual Fund over $315,000. The, FoWlders Society includes those alumni who contributed $500 to $900, and The Century Club are those who give $100 or more. One of the more successful aspects of the drive, accorging to both the Vice President and the Director of the Annual FlUid, Paul· Rieschick, is the phone-a-thon, Last year the alumni .phone-a-thon set a record .by contributing $25,000, and almost immediately af· terwar.d the student phone--a· thon took in $38,600. Rieschick commended the students for doing a ''great job.', He in· dicated that this particular event, which incidentally ran Monday 'through Thu:r.sday of this week, is enjoyable for the students because of the free food and the competition. This EPC Meets:· year there were s~een teams a·nd three alternate teams competing on thirty-two phones. Mr. Rieschick alSo indicated that the alumni tend'to respc>nd to the students over the phone because tbey like to see a loyal stl.ldent oody. . . . . The Annual Campaign, which w~:~s formerly done on a geographic basiS, is now ef- fected on a class· by class basis. Every year since 1975 there has been appointed a head agent for each graduating class, and after that the Resources office has recruited agents from the class. Last year there were 42 .agents recruited .from the class of 1978, and so each agent was able to cboose ten people in the class to ask for donations. Rieschick pointed ·out two ad· vantages to this system. First, classmates can remain in contact with one another, and with -the College. Also, the College finds it more ap- propriate that alumni be ap- proached by members of their own class. In each year sine~ this system has been instituted the rise in donations bas increased con- Siderably in comparison with the years before 1975. This year's head .agent is Laura MasaUo, the first. woman to be appointed to the ·position, She Will be in .charge of coordinating the Alumni Fllnd for the class of 1979. Music Curriculum by STEVE GRilL The Educational Policy complaining of a lack of support Committee (EPC) met on Fri., for the Arts at Union. We will May 4, and continued its know, ''if this, program fails,\ discussion of a proposed music that people will not come to curriculum put forth by the Arts Union for the Arts, he said. Department. Professor Virginia Professor Leslie Hull of the Bush, Chairperson of the Arts Chemistry Department Department, was present. questioned if students currently - The main points of the involved in the Arts bad been proposal are: l)The addition of approached about the proposal. two more required courses Bush said thatthey had and that making a total of 17 for the $he had received some general major, 2) The availability of reacti<ms from them. She said three areas of concentration that the students who were most (Theory, Music Composition, deeply involved in the .Arts felt and Music Literature), 3) that the proposal entailed some Requiring two full years (6 great improvements and that a courses) in. Theory, 4) The student could have a real major addition of several new courses in Music. The students who to· the departmental offerings. .were not as deeply concerned Chairman .of the EPC, with the Arts--the \dabblers\- Professor AntOil Warde, asked felt that the reauirements of if th_e proposed curriculum prerequisites for many of the could be thought of as a courses made the program too ''systematic enrichment of rigid. what exists\ now. Bush said Professor Hull said that he that that description was ac- had spoken to a \dabbler\ who curate. Assoc. Dean of Faculty, reconunended that. there be a Prof. Allan Nelson, said that- ' music composition course of- - there were not . ~any s~udents fered as an entry l~vel course ready to part1c1pate m the for the \seduction\ of nm, program and asked if the Arts majors. Hull said that the Arts Department was \moWlting the Department should \try not to program partly to attract exclude a large number that pel)ple.\ Bush replied that this came in for two or three courses was also true. Nelson then with some background\ who questioned whether the school may feel comfortable with a would know in five years if the mus1c composition course. program woUld work. Bush Wilson }}eld that they would ~esponded that we would know just not be equipped for the m two year.~ after the program composition course, and -he wa!3 put mto . effect what Continued on page 2 ref1Jlements were needed and, · in five years, whether or not the program would work at all. Professor Hugh Allen Wuson -of the Arts Department, and also a member of the EPC, cohunented that various pet• sons have been continuously '. Election Candidates and Platforn•s on pages 6 and 7 of this Issue. Seniors can vote! I

/ Page 2 OONOOBDJSNSIS, Ma'!l tO, 1919 ,, Qiournr ·. Editors-in.:Chief New~ Editors , . Layout Editors , Feature Editors Associate Editor Business Editors Classified Editor Arts Editor Sports EditoFs Copy Editors · Photography Editor Fine Lines Editor · Staff: Douglas Rosenfeld, Sara Simmons > Paul Feinsot, MelissaCragin · Matt Nagotsky, Dan Wojnilower Sue• Barnhart, Donna ·Creeley · David Rubin Carole Reinig, Gina'Torrisi ·' Hoberta .Moss · Cindy :A:ranow • Matt Kayne, Mark Palomba· · Pat CondeUo, Pam Ryan Pat Wrignt . Jan OeOeka Ellen VanDyke, Debbe Damrell, · Sue Marr, Joanne Malin . CONCORDIENSIS is published every Thursday by· the student · body of Union College, Carnegie Hall, Schenectady, New York, 12306; Publications Office: Susquehanaa Publications., Inc., 8 1 2 · · . Reynolds Ave., Oneonta, New York 13820, ( 607) 432;.(}737. Entered in the Schenectady Post Office as third class matter. Subscription rate: 35 cents per capy, $1~ per year, delivered anywhere in tile United States. Rally Against A tom c . ' • by BOB POLLARD On Sllllday, May 6, a small Unjon contingent was among the over 100,000 people to descend upon the nation's eapitQ·l to participate in history's largest demoastration against nuclear power. The · rally came a year since the celebration of Sun Day, last May'.s celebration in favor of solar power.. The day in Washington was characterized anti-Carter-Schlesing~r and pro-solar sentiment. The whole day was eJ«remely well organized by the May 6~h Coalition. A 'high level. of group solidarity characterized the trip from the moment we left Albany. Upon arriv1:.d in Washington, we joined the ever .. increasir.lg rnass on the. ellipse in frQnt of the White House. There, we listened to speakers and singers until the no!>n were well informed al)out the march to tb._e Capitol steps. facts and fallacies of nuclear Early morning speakers in- power~. others were not, but all duded Ruth Jordan, leader of were deeply concerned for the the Coalition of Labor Union ~uture. · · ·· Women, who charged that the. It took about 1% hours :tor the nuclear .industry was .endorl)ing 100,000 to. assembly on the sterilization lor .its female Capitol lawn and spread out ·employees; and Chauncey around the massive \No Ke.pford, radiation chemist, Nukes\ stage and speaker who introduced a .new term to system. Here, the rally reached the throng that he promised we its fever .pitch. The speakers wouldhehearingalot more.of it and performers.keptvoicingthe the nukes aren't shut down-the complaints of the day, each in - \kill distance.'' This is the their Qwn way. Bella Abzug''s approximately 100 mile dynamic :Jllanner whipped up distance from a nuclear reactor the crowd's energy right away, where people will die within two expounding on the way the weeks of a meltdown. Michael government and. industry bave Harrington, author, stated that been deceiving us in regards to 2 mi:llion jobs could be created the safety and necessity ·of by the solar industry. Benjamin nuclear power. John Sebastfan Spock and others also gav~ performed \Just AnQther Link speeches before the march. in the C}lain\ and \welcome Music Program Changed .•• At .noon, th.e group, now . Back\ which took on 'a ·new. limitless to the eye, began its · n1eaning wlwn dedicated to· slot descent down Pennsylv:ania those who had returned (from Ave. towards the sbining. dome· the. 60s) to. fight for what. t~ey . of the Capitol.building.- As we believe. in. Dr. Helen Calqieott; wa~Ked fn the midday sun, l was teacher at .Harvard, ang author moved by this hodgepodge of of Nuclear . Madness, spoke of citizens gathered for a colllJ.I).on the health hazards of nuclear ConfilltJed from page 1 compared i.t to asking a .stuaent · to write a novella his first year ill college. Hull repeated his concern that non-majors would elect not to participate in the new program. He said that stud~:mts claim th~y like the composition courses and feel thatthe theory ,courses are drier.. He added that \composition was much more whatthey were after when th¢y decided to sample music.\ Dean of Faculty Faula succeeds .. Brownlee replied that there would be other pressures which could limit the Art department's. growth. · Professor Schneller then expressed concern that the College has no wa~to respond to programs which work and need money. He felt th~t until an educational policy was developed concerning this, that EPC should not approve the music curriculum, for everyone's sake. Brownlee agreed that this is a Hull brought up the .point that real problem and that the Arts there might be ste.ps taken to department should care about upgrade the program v.ithout every student wishing to take increasing the st?ffing until muslc. there were press,r: 1 s due to Nelson then brought up a increased student enrollment. different issue. He questioned \' Bush suggested that possibly a whether it was fair to ,students full major might not be offered, and to faculty to accommodate but instead only an ID major certain courses as independent would be available. She added studies (as has been proposed). that if EPC directs the Arts This, in effect, increases the department to shrink the size of faculty's teaching load without programs so that they could be giving them credit for it, he taught by thfee faculty mem- said. Bush indicated that the hers, a weaker version. of the Arts department has been major would have to result. · teaching in this manner for several years and thus it. does not repr~sent a change. Ward suggested that the possibility of going to the lEF (lnternat.ional Education Foundation) for funding 'Of the Arts faculty, so as to start the new program with a nigher profile. Professor Schneller also questioned the major com- mitments ~'in terms oftime and energy\ that would be required for the faculty. Professor Wilson felt that a lot of the discussion was based on the asswnption that the program was going tC> work. He felt that if the program were tested and worked, then the. college would have to face the problem of staffing. Dean Brownlee felt that the school must put programs . into existence knowing how t() staff them beforehand. Professor Bush stated two alternatives to implementing the program. 1 J Maintain the present program. 2) 'Truncate the proposed changes so as to bring themmot\e into alignment with ·what exists now. · · Brownlee said that a general policy of EPC has been that departments must make cbanges in their curricultUil without incr~asing the program (i.e., the faelilty size, faeilities, ·and etc.) .• ,..,; · Wilson ~ked if ttte program will be \all unJmnpable con-- straint\ prwentmg an increase in, for eX!IIIlple, jtaffi1lg1 if it Professor Frank Millilo of Mechanical Enginee,ring commented that there must be some compromise available. The Arts department is asking . for a lot and the school can't give that much. He stated that there · must be some improvements in the direction· of the proposal which can be made, less than implementing the full proposal. Wilson then stated that most of the discussion centered on staffing problems and that he didn't see any immediate problem. He added that what the Arts Department is con- sidering would essentiaLly resultin an ''overload\ of three courses for three faculty members., He rel'ated that alternative to this. would be to hire an adjunct at $4,500 ·a year. Dean Brownlee then brought up the consideration tbat if the pro~ succeeds, the present clientele of stuclents may be lost (due to reasons described earlier). Mike Arato asked if the only. uea where there will be decreased enrollment (because of there being prereqllisites for these courses) was composition •.. Professor Bush replied that this was true, and she added that music literature courses are open to students who baveJaken Music 10, or with permiSsion. AlSo, Music 10 Will be given twice a yel!li', instead of. once, ancl thiS Will nutke things easier for.\' students, she said. Schneller stated that some committees or groups .should give resources in or(:ler to test out the program, andt.hen EPC should \play put up or shut up ball.\ :ae wanted to see a five- year test program, and related that Planning and Priorities might discuss _the funding. There _ will be C()ntinued discussion of this issue in the EPC. concern. Looldng ~round, . I -power I including the fact that could read posters of mostly childten are 20· times more anti-nul<e' or pro-solar design susceptible .to radiation tnan intersp~rsed with banners adults. She alse calc.ulated a~ recalling the tragedies of Three projected:death. tollof Vz~miUion Mile Island and. the Karen Silk- if the disaster at Three Mile wood murder. The very old Island had been a meltdown. marched with the very young, Victims as well as experts the business suited execs· with took the stage that day. Orville the leftover flower children of Kelly contracted cancer after the 60s, all wearing buttons, being forced. to observe nuclear ·carrying posters, and chanting blasts at close range while in at the top of their yo ices. Some on page 3 ,· An byF :Setty.,JI Union's ! not one ol how she' Betty-J1 enjoys a activitie: biklng, s~ isameml Profes Organita qualified crisis ce educated and coll1 working criminal Betty children , t .family i enjoy ·d1 skatingt made J1 when t daughteJ girl in 8 1 family. Now,! Union's officer .. Expel Officer mu:nber derstooc sacrific she ace tooktb her fan ••l•m she exp faiDilY Cliff Secur\t: respom Mrs. J pressw hire a Jean l.:i for the capaci colleg1 prefer• open. ~l Vir~ the 1 resig11 JUite\: decis sonal' so cia isolat· \adm lifen Pre UnioJ nUSS· ' ' . . . .

Page 2, CONCORDIENSIS, May 10, 1979 Qlnnrnr . Editors-in-Chief News Editors Layout Editors Feature Editors Associate EdUor Business Editors Classified Editor Arts Editor Sports Editors Copy Edi~ ors Photography Editor Fine Lines Editor Staff: Deuglas Rosenfeld, Sara Simmons PaulFeinsot, Melissa Cragin Matt Nagorsky, Dan Wojnilower Sue Barnhart, Donna Creeley David Rubin . Carole Reinig, Gina Torrisi Roberta Moss Cindy Aranow · Matt Kayne, Mark Palomba Pat Condello, Pam Ryan Pat Wrignt Jaa DeDeka Elien VanDyke, Deb be Damrell, Sue Marr, JoaNne Malin CONCORDIENSIS is published every Tlmrsday by· the student body of Union College, Carnegie Hall, Schenectady, New York, 12308; Publications Office: Susquehanna Publications, Inc., 8 1 2 Reynolds Ave., Oneonta, New York 13820, (607) 432~737. Entered in the Schenectady Post Office as third class matter. SubscriptioN rate: 35 cents per copy, $10 per year, delivered anywhere in the United States. Rally Against Atom by BOB POLLARD ON Sunday, May 6, a small Union contingent was among the over 100,000 people to descend upon the nation's capitol to participate in history's largest demonstration against nuclear power. The tally came a year since the celebration of Sun Day, last May's celebration in favor of s0lar power. The day in Washington was characterized anti-Carter-Schlesinger and pro-solar sentiment. The whole day was extremely weH organized by the May 6th Coalition. A high level of group solidarity characterized the trip from the moment we left Albany. Upon arrival in WashiNgton, we joined the ever- increasing mass on the ellipse in front of the White House. There, we listened to speakers and singers until the noon march to the Capitol steps. Early morning speakers in- cluded Ruth Jordan, leader of the Coalition ef Labor Union Women, who charged that the. nuclear industry was endorsing sterilization for its female employees; and Chauncey Kepford, radiation chemist, who introduced a new term to the throng that he promised we would be hearing a lot more of it the nukes aren't shut down-the \kill distance.\ This is the approximately 100 mile distance from a nuclear reactor where people will die within two weeks of a meltdown. Michael Harrington, author, stated that 2 million jobs could be created by the solar industry. Benjami.B Spock and others also gav('! speeches before the march. were well informed about the facts and faUacies of nuclear power, others were not, but aU were deeply concerned for the future. Music Program Changed ... At no(im, the group, now limitless to the eye, began its slot descent down Pennsylvania Ave. towards the shining dome of the rapitol building. As we wair.el! in the midday SW1, I was moved by this hodgepodge of citizen!' gathered for a common concern. Looking aroUild, I could read posters of mostly anti-nuke or pro-solar design interspersed with banners recalling the tragedies of Three Mile Island and the Karen Silk- wood murder. The very old marched with the very young, the business suited execs with the leftover flower children of the 60s, all wearing buttons, carrying posters, and chanting at the top of their voices. Some It took about 1 1 /z hours for the 100,000 to assembly on the Capitol lawn and spread out around the massive ''No Nukes\ stage and speaker system. Here, the rally reached its fever pitch. The speakers and performers kept voicing the complaints of the day, each in their own way. Bella Abzug's dynamic manner whipped up the crowd's energy right away, expoundiRg on the way the government and industry have been deceiving us in regards to the safety and necessity of nuclear power. John Sebastian performed \Just Another Link in the Chain\ and \welcome Back\ which took on a new meaning when dedicated to those who had returned (from the 60s) to fight for what they believe in. Dr. Helen Caldicott, teacher at Harvard, and author of Nuclear Madness, spoke of the health hazards of nuclear \J)Ower including the fact that children are 20 times more susceptible to radiation than adults. She also calculated a· projected death toll of 1!2-million if the disaster at Three Mile Island had been a meltdown. Continued from page 1 studeNts, she said. Schneller stated that some committees or groups should give resources in order to test out the program, and then EPC should \play put up or shut up balL\ He wanted to see a five- year test program, and related that Planning and Priorities might discuss the funding. There will be continued discussion of this issue in the EPC. compared it to asking a student to write a novella his first year in college. Hull repeated his concern that non-majors would elect not to participate in the new program. He said that students claim thi;!Y like the composition courses and feel that the theory courses are drier. He added that \composition was much more what they were after when they decided to sample music.\ Dean of Faculty Paula Brownlee agreed that this is a real problem and that the Arts department should care about every student wishing to take music. Nelson then brought up a different issue. He questioned whether it was fair to .students and to faculty to accommodate certain courses as independent studies (as has been proposed). This, in effect, increases the faculty's teaching load without giving them credit for it, he said. Bush indicated that the Arts department has been teaching in this manner for several years and thus it does not represent a change. Ward suggested that the possibility of going to the IEF (International Bducation Foundation) for funding of the Arts faculty, so as to start the new program with a higher profile. Professor Schneller also questioned the major com- mitments \in terms of time and energy\ that would be required for the faculty. Professor Wilson felt that a lot of the discussion was based on the asswnption that the program was going to work. He felt that if the program were tested and worked, then the college would have to face the problem of staffing. Dean Brownlee felt that the school must put programs into existence knowing how to staff them beforehand. Professor Bush stated two alternatives to implementing the program. 1) Maintain the present program. 2) Truncate the proposed changes so as to bring them more into alignment with wbat exists now. Brownlee said that a general policy of EPC has been that departments must make changes in their curriculwn without increasing the program (i.e., the faculty size, facilities, and etc.). WilsDn asked if the program will be \an unjumpable con- straint\' preventing an increase in, for ebDlple, ataffing, if it succeeds. Brownlee replied that there would be other pressures which could limit the Art department's gro\.,th. Professor Schneller then expressed concern that the College has no way to respond to programs which work and need money. He felt that until an educational policy was developed concerning this, that EPC should not approve the music curriculum, for everyone's sake. Hull brought Up the point that there might be steps taken to upgrade the program \\ ithout increasing the stp:fmg until there were press.;··'> due to increased student enrullment. Bush suggested that po3sibly a full major might not be offered, but instead only an ID major would be available. She added that if EPC directs the Arts department to shrink the size of programs so that they could be taught by three faculty mem- bers, a weaker version of the major would have to result. Professor Frank Millilo of Mechanical Engineering commented that there must be some compromise available. The Arts department is asking for alot and the school can't give that much. He stated that there must be some improvements in the direction of the proposal which can be made, less than implementing the full proposal. R.S.V.P. Rebuttle To the Edit(lr; Victims as well as experts took the stage that day. Orville Kelly contracted cancer after being forced to observe nuclear blasts at close range while in Continued on page 3 L ,· .. ·: .· .. · ... ·· < \ ; •• - •• · ··e· \: .... ;t-~ -·····t·· -e' ·.·.··· ··· .. :,.· \···_.··s··············· • -, :-~ -· ,-, ---, ' -, :.:,:·-·. O<•' :-· , , •. •:. -- • '~~-.- . . . ' . ~ . ·__ ·-- .· _.. - time offer slight variations to ' the ·19 meal program to t;trict vegetarians and stud.ents requiring special diets due to To the Editor · medical· . prqblems. A$ suggested 'in Mf. F~inbe.rg~s · · On b~half of the .entire ···u ·wiuli.t · letter we do offer a:·fraternity· CQU~gecm!mrumity., I wml!dJlike: In response to a letter ap\ pledge plan which entiUes .. all t!l. ~end .my sincere than~ ~.. .. u: ..• pearing in the April 26, 1979 pledges to eat at the f_.aternity. .ali your eft.orts a,nd tssue of tbe Concordiensis house on Tues®y, WeQn.esd:ay. in hl}lping to make · · · · written by Mr, Robert F~in.. and Thursday ,fp~ tne noon and • : LudtoY~l>~l¥'• S!JQJl a sucee&$. · . berg, we offer the following: evening meals. Hopefully, Mr. iS indeed-gratifying for an.old R.S.V.P .. has established a Feinberg is aware of the.· alum like myself to see further Food Committee ·comprised of program since · hEf is . a par~ celebration .of. tbe spirit .att4 < students on the West Meal Plans tidpant. tradition of Union very much in ·• and JLS.V.P. management. the R.S;V.P. sincetely wi-sbes to ,,keeping with what lo;ers; ... meetings are held every third maintain open lines of com~ perieneed back in the , ' Thursday at 3 p.m. in West. We m~nieation to relieve any days.\ It's nice to know that the urge all concerned students to trustration suffered l;)y students . College continu;as to be . a. attend. We welcom-e your input on the West meal plan. We hope \Union of People.H - of suggestions as well as your to free Mr. Feinberg•s hands by My friend Joe Zolner is still · eomplaints in order that we inviting rum to become actively selling T-shirts • all styles) all may provide the best food involved with the Food Com~ colors. Get yours now for $3 . . service possible. mlttee in a genuine interest of each or 2 for $5. We wish to .point out. that the the food service. Though t'Mre Again; many thanks for all freshman 19 meal plan is a r is little mtJfe we can do to free your assistance on Saturday. Union College policy and in no his feet, may we . suggest It was sincerf ly appreciated by was a .contract stiptilation removing, the on-e fl\!!t~l'··· nis· . , everyone •. · ·part of R.s.v;P. We' feel mo•utb. ·sure that the administration has the students' best interest in mind. Sincerely, Michael J. Elmendo-rf Food Q,. ..... t .... ..,.. nirAt•tnr WHson then stated that most of the discussion centered on staffing problems and that he didn't see any immediate problem. He added that what the Arts Department is con- . .llllillil sidering would essentially result in an \overload\ of three courses for three faculty members... He related that alternative to this would be to hire an adjunct at $4,500 a year. Dean Brownlee then brought up the consideration that if the program succeeds, the present clientele of students may be lost (due to reasons described earlier). Mike Arato asked if the only area where there will be decreased enrollment (because of there being prerequisites for these courses) was composition. Professor Bush replied that this was true, and she added that music literature courses are open to students who have taken Music 10, or with pennission. Also, Music 10 will be given twice a year, instead of once, and this will make things easier for I } t l ' I . i An byPl Betty-Je Union's s, not one of how she v Betty-Je enjoys a activities biking, ski isamemb Profes~ Organizat qualified crisis cer educated aAd colle working criminal Betty i children, family i~ enjoy do skating t( made Je when h daughter girl in st: family. Now,s Union's officer. Ex per Officer number derstood sacrifici she accE took the herfam \I'm l she expl family < Cliff Securit} respons Mrs. J• pressur' hire a ' Jean b• for the capacii college prefere open. ~y Virgi the A resignt Jillle 1 decisi sonal\ social isolate: \admi lifem Pro Union misse 1 I I j ~ Vi ef

OONCORDIENSIS~, M4Y .t(b. 19.\1!!- .. Page 8 Another First For Women ' . ' ~y PETERPERRIN :Setty .. Jean Jel}kins. is one of Union's security officers, but not one of tbe boys, And this is how she wants it ·to be. Wood saysthat be ls conf.ident . that Officer Jenkins can c;:lo anything that one ·Of her male co-workers can. F'urt)lennore, her duties are identical to those of other security officers. Her uniform 'is functional. She Betty-Jean is a--woman who d. · .,.~ 1 · · en)'oys a .. variety··. of athletic ··. reSses Sl!fll.ic:lf y to her male colleagues , With . few ad:ivities including jogging, . modificatipns. As Wood points biking, skiing, and Skating • .She out, ·sbe receives no special isamember oft}le. Business and · d · Profess ion a. 1 Women' 8 treatment 1n . uty assignment or in het dress. Organization; as well as a - qualified vOlWlteer for a rape At first, resentment among crisis center.· Betty-Jean was some of her fellow emplQyees educated in parochial: schools that they bad to work a ''man's and . college. Presently, she is j9b'' with a woman was el[- working · on her degree ' jn pre$sed openly in their com- criiniilal fustiee. m~ts and a~tiorts when near ner. Mrs. Jenkins simply Bet~y is a J11other of _three ignQred them. Now, th~y no chil(iren, a~s 22, 15, and 7. Her longer .express their- hostility.' family is close-knit and .tbey :Sut, •one can still sen$e some enjoy . doing evel,'ything Jrorn vestiges of thelr resentment. sltating to cookfug:t9gether. :She . .-- . . . . . .· . . .. This is exactly t·he image of herself that she is tryjpg to c;:onvey. HI love being ·a woman. r only~­ want equal work for equal pay. I do not want to ):..e one of thE;! 'boys.'' Indeed, Betty~Jean is ar.- individual with her .owr. femmine identity. As such, sht would like to be recognized (or · Who she .is befo.re · being recogniZed as a security officer. \You're a human being first, then you expand to other areas. First~ 1 am me, a wi!e anc;:l mother; then r ain a security officer. · Be~y-Jean Jenkins may have to struggle to be a woman security officer in a male oriented S()ciety:. But, so far Sbe i~ ahead in the .game. .....-- made Jenkins family .history · . ~n~ of. her co--won~~rs pn her when her seven· yea·r old .shift expresses. full c'bnftdenc:;e daughter we~Sj'bo.rn_ as the (irst \-_ofher as an pfftc~r on campus. girl in se\'en generations qt tbe Howeyer, he IS _Qll1Ck,to. add that family. · he would not _like. ~o be her PottS\ Moves SOUth ' ' . --~ . · patrot.partner m a e1ty. Now, sbe. is making history as , In t:he sixties., she explains, After twelve years at Union, Union's first woman securj~y she was a radical who resented· · Professot\' David· Potts has officer resigned. He witl become the . . pOli,ce. So,. now, as a . campus new Dean of College at ExperiE:need in security, .policeofficer;she wolildnot like Gettysb.urg COUe.ge. in Penn.· . Officer Jenkins, her badge to · see. a ·gap eXist ootween · number is lu(!ky tbirteen;_un- · herself and the student body. sylvania.· - derstood. her- duties -and the· Those students who have· had R11ofessor ~Potts came to sacrifieies that faced her When contact with her would testify _ Union in 1967 as an assistant she accepted the job. When she that She was indeed working professor in _ the History took the position, she sat with well without any such gap. department, · and in 1973 he her family a11d discussed ~he~. One sucn ~rspn said that he ,became ;:ln associate professor. \I'm a wife anC;i a motl'ler'\ would rather have Betty-Jean In 1967, Pott.s also became the she explains, \And as ~uch my vl.otk with him than any other director of the undergraduate family comes before mY job.\ o~ficer. According to him, the progrmn in Ametican Studi~s; - · · th ·ff' · · f th · ~ t in 1975 he picked up the C l 1 \ff .w .. ·ood.. Director .of o er o 1cers-1.. or · e:mo.,~ par , • · · · ld to th · · ·b di'rectorship of the same Securi .. ty·,. he.re.· was dire.ctl.Y· seem co ·. · · · e1r 10 s. - · graduate program. This . job responsibie' for. the. hiring of Student. security employees continued until 1978 when Mrs. Jenkins. He denies any- enjoy wo11king with Betty-Jean Prof~sor Nye tOok .over. pressure from the- college to. t~eca:u~e she is understanding, · hire a woman. He hired Betty.. .friendly; and cooperative. In 1976, Professor Potts Jean because sbe has·worked ~ became the Associate :Dean of for the CQUege m a. nUrriber of For the most Pllft, the Faculty here 'at Union. Since, capacities previously and students seem indifferent to Potts sald, thiS positi<m is only college employees get Betty.Jean~s gender, They feel conceived -of as a two year preference when new positions that she is a .person doing her space, he . rotated out of the -· open. job. Dean's office and back into his BUsh 'To- Leave After '79-'80 !JY PAULFEINSOT . Virginia Bush, Chairman of· the Arts department, has resigned effective at the end of June- 1980. The reasons for her- decision are strictly ''per· sonal'', · as she .finds -herself socially and intellectually isolateQ. She also stated that the \administrative phase\ of her life may be ending. Profesoor BUsh, who came to Union in 1977, decided that she misses the_ . big_ cit)' and .its complex cult1JI'al activities. She added, that although Sthehectady has some ap:- pealing qualities and pleasant people, te~ching at Union · precludes her pursuit of teaching at the higher levels;_ The purpose for her early annolU1cement is to save people on the campus the hassle ot tenure review. Professor Bush related that she would feel very ''hypocritigar' if ~he were to go through that process. She further emphasiZes that she is Virginia eush, ~halrw~an of the Arts..:~partment, has resigned effec;tlve next June. · · · not. going away \mad\ because, as .she says, people wbo are leaving because of outrage or scandal do not give fourteen months notice. The Arts Chairman feels that ''tbe one thing about Union which has no redeeming value'' · is the trimester system. She called it \educationally and intellectually unsound.\ . A ~econd pr()blem whicb she recQgni.zes- is .the imbalance of Liberal Arts and Engineering, ·tu1d.in her (inal ~·ear at Union Professor Bush mtends. to do her part to help Union keep its \Liberal Arts stance.\ This entaUs the upgrading of Arts department pr_ogram~ . and facilities. She believes-this to be oC paramount importance . because She recognizes that there are other schools with good programs in the S<!iences and the hwnanities that are far Shead of llnion m the area of the arts. · ·To make their programs more competitive, the Arts deparj;ment last week an- noimced a broad restructuring of the mt!Sic curriculum, and if all goes well, in the next few weeks Professor Bush intenc1s to report her plans to renovate the existing Arts building. This is .... some~hing which she deeiilS necessary if Union hopes to find ~mother top rate person to take her responsibilities. She has iridicated that she .is willing to help in the search for a new Chairman, but contends that if the current situation remains, then such .a :iearch will oo very difficult .. full-timeteacbbig position.in the History Department. Potts said this year was, a transitional year for him, to 10\lk for a new opportunitY. · .Potts chose his· new · op• portunity to be Gettysburg. He will be a chief administrator. There·, as .his Dean of College position is second to the president. '''Here at. Union, Potts said his administrative duties were ''to implement academic· regulations, stan· dards, and responsibilities, help develQp the liberal learning pr()gram, and delegate other jobs.\ The .. Professor sees his future position ,to have broader andmore responsibility than his deansllip b.ere. GettysburgJs a small, strong liberal arts coBege. A .purely undergraduate college, and the Professor sees it _as \a good school which aspires to · be. better.'' Professor Potts said that leaving Union would ~ hard, but that he had found the new opportunity he walllooklng ·for at Gettysl:lurg. No Nukes. • • Continued from page 2 the army. He said that his petition to get the 'VA tQ pay his doctor bills had just been rejected for the third time. Sue Cassidy, a pregnant resident of the Three Mile . Island area, voiced her fears4or her qpbom ·baby and charged government and indUstry with negligent deception of the public . As the day wore on; the most well-known speakers and performers t'ook the stage. Dan Fogelberg kept the crowd en- tertained as tbe \heavy\ speakers got ready. Jerry Brown arrived Wlexpectedly and was met with mixed greetings. Barry Commoner and Kurt Vonnegut spoke their pieces, and Dick Gregory, comedian and activist, really charged up the crowd by voicing his fears, \. . . I cannot see radiation, I cannot feel radiation, . I cannot taste radiation'' and \I'd rather have brownouts and blackouts than peopleouts!\ Befot~ he was done, Gregory vowed not to eat solid food until every last nuke plant was shlit down. (He perfonnedthe same sacrlfice in the 60s until the war was over.) The day's most highly ap- plauded speech was given by ·the rally's. main organizer- Ralph Nader. Nader called for the public to go back home after the rally tQ educate t~e com- munity., to vote for responsible leaders and to take their energy future· into their own 'hands. He slasbed · at Carter· · and Schlesinger as did . the Jl!'Xt speaker-Jane Fonda. Fonda delivered a caustic . speech wherein she ,$aid that \putting Scblesinger in charge of energy is like putting Dracula in cluirg~ of a blood bank.\ Sbe alse> descril>ed Jackson Browne as '~one of the mom~w,erlul anti• • ' • •I nuke weapons we have.\ She praised Browne for par- ticipating in the anti-nuke movement \before it was fashionable.\ Three musicians put together the perfect ending to a phenomenal day, Graham Nash ~d a new anti-nuke song and '•Teach Your Children\ With new meaning in his voice. He then introduced the day's most exciting special guest--Joni Mitchell. Ms. Mitchell did \Circle Game/' \Big Yellow Taxi\ (with a new anti-nuke line), and a new composition. Jackson Browne followed, the musical hero of the anti-nuke movement. Browne performed an entire set. Hopefully, the 100,000 people who marched in Washington Sunday did not march in vain. We each represented countless others who could not attend the rally. It would be a great vic• tory ofthe rally ca~edthose in\ power to think twice as to when tbe profit motive begins to conflict with safety. Perhaps we can. nudge the corporatiQns into spending some of their billions -on' solar manufacturing and research. Satirist Kurt Von· negut took the best verbal slash at these giants .of . the nuclear bureaucr~cy with' these words: ''The rnaker:s of (the lies) think they are cute. They are not cute. They stink •... They are stinky stupid.\ At the very least the al'lti-nuclear ·moveptent should sp~r each and evety on~ of u~ to educate ourselves on both sides ofthen~~lear po~er picture, so w~ can make 'intelli6ent decisions on this life and' death issue; especially when we are ·casting our ballots in the. up- ICorning · elections where this. lssu.e will be a central one. · •

GONCORDIENSIS, May 10, 1979 Page 3 Another First For Women by PETER PERRIN Betty-Jean JeQkins is one of Union's security officers, but not one of the boys. And this is how she wants it to be. Betty-Jean is a ·woman who enjoys a variety of athletic activities including jogging, biking, skiing, and skating. She is a member of the Business and Professional Women's Organization, as well as a qualified volt:rnteer for a tape crisis center. Betty-Jean was educated in parochial schools and college. Presently, she is working on her degree in criminal iustice. Wood says that he is confident that Officer Jenkins can do anything that one of her male co-workers can. Furthermore, her duties are identical to those of other security officers. Her uniform 'is functional. She dresses similarly to her male col'leagues with few modifications. As Wood points 011t, she receives no special treatment in duty assignment or in her dress. At first, resentment among some of her fellow employees tllat they bad to work a \man's job\ with a woman was ex- pressed openly in their com- ments and actions when near her. Mrs. Jenkins simply ignored them. Now, they no longer express their hostility. But, one can stiU sense some vestiges of their resentment. This is exactly the image of herself that she is trying to convey. \l love being a woman. I only want equal work for equal pay. I de not want to :je ~;me of the boys.\ Indeed, Betty-Jean is ar. individual with her owr. feminine identity. As such, shl would like to be recognized for who she is before being recognized as a security officer. \You're a hwnan being first, then you expand. to other areas. First, I am me, a wife and mother; tl:len I am a security officer. Betty-Jean Jenkins may have to struggle to be a woman security officer in a male oriented society. But, so far she is ahead in the game. . ',. ~-· ----'\- Betty-Jean Jenkins f:las become Union's first female security of- ficer. Betty is a mother of three children, ages 22, 15, and 7. Her family is close-knit and they enjoy doing everything from skating to cooking together. She made Jenkins family history when her seven year old daughter was born as the first - girl in seven generations of the family. One of her co-workers on her shift expresses full confidence of her as an officer on campus. However, he is quick to add that he would not like to be her patrol partner ln a city. PottS Moves South Now, she is making history as Union's first woman security officer. Experienced in security, Officer Jenkins, her badge number is lucky thirteen, un- derstood her duties and the sacrificies that faced her when she accepted the job. When she took the position, she sat with her family and discussed ~he111. \I'm a wife and a mother\ she explains, \And as such my family comes before my job.\ Cliff Wood, Director of Security, here was directly responsibie for the hiring of Mrs. Jenkins. He denies any pressure from the college to hire a woman. He hired Betty- Jean because she has worked for the college in a nwnber of capacities previously and college employees get preference when new positions open. In the sixties, she explains, she was a radical who resented· police. So, now, as a campus police officer, she would not like to see. a gap exist between herself and the student body. Those students who have had contact with her would testify that she was indeed working well without any such gap. One such person said that he would rather have Betty-Jean work with him than any other officer. . According to him, the other officers,for the most part, seem cold to their jobs. Student security· employees enjoy working with Betty-Jean becau~e she is understanding, friendly, and cooperative. For the most part, the students seem indifferent to Betty-Jean's gender. They feel that she is a person doing her job. After twelve years at Union, ·Professor David Potts has resigned. He will become the new Dean of College at Gettysburg College in Penn- . sylvania. Professor Potts came to Union in 1967 as an assistant professor in the History department, and in 1973 he became an associate professor. In 1967, Potts also became the dil·ector of the undergraduate program in American Studies; in 1975 he picked up the directorship of the same graduate program. This job continued until 1978 when Professor Nye took over. In 1976, Professor Potts became the Associate Dean of Faculty here at Union. Since, Potts said, this position is only conceived of as a two year space, he rotated out of the Dean's office and back into his Bush To Leave After '79-'80 by PAUL FEINSOT Virginia Bush, Chairman of the Arts department, has resigned effective at the end of June 1980. The reasons for her- decision are strictly \per- sonal\ as she finds herself socially and intellectually isolated. She also stated that the \administrative phase\ of her life may be ending. Professor Bush, who came to Union in 1977, decided that she misses the big city and its complex cultural activities. She added, that although Schenectady has some ap- pealing qualities and pleasant people, teaching at Union precludes 'her pursuit of teaching at the higher levels. The purpose for her early announcement is to save people on the campus the hassle of tenure review. Professor Bush related that she would feel very \hypocritical\ if she were to go through that process. She further emphasizes that she is Virginia Bush, chairwoman of the Arts Department, has resigned effective next June. not going away \mad\ because, as she says, people who are leaving because of outrage or scandal do not give fourteen months notice. The Arts Chairman feels that \the one thing about Union which has no redeeming value\ is the trimester system. She called it \educationally and intellectually unsound.'' A second problem which she recognizes is the imbalance of Liberal Arts and Engineering, and in her final year at Union Professor Bush intends to do her part to help Union keep its \Liberal Arts stance.\ This entails the upgrading of Arts department programs and facilities. She believes this to be of· paramount importance because she recognizes that there are other schools with good programs in the sciences and the humanities that are far iihead of Union in the area of the arts. To make their programs more competitive, the Arts department last week an- nounced a broad restructuring of the music curriculum, and if all goes well, in the next few weeks Professor Bush intends to report her plans to renovate the existing Arts building. This is/ something which she deems necessary if Union hopes to find another top rate person to take her responsibilities. She has indicated that she is willing to help in the search for a new Chairman, but contends that if the current situation remains, then such a :search will bP. very difficult. fulltimeteaching position in the History Department. Potts said this year was a transitional year for him, to look for a new opportunity. Potts chose his new op- portunity to be Gettysburg. He will be a chief administrator. There, as his Dean of College position is second to the president. \Here at Union, Potts said his administrative duties were \to implement academic regulations, stan- dards, and responsibilities, help develop the liberal learning program, and delegate other jobs.\ The Professor sees his future position to have broader and more responsibility than his deanship here. Gettysburg is a small, strong liberal arts college. A purely Wldergraduate college, and the Professor sees it as \a good school which aspires to be better.\ Professor Potts said that leaving Union would be hard, but that he bad found the new opportunity be was looking for at Gettysburg. No Nukes. • • Continued from page 2 the army. He said that his petition to get the VA to pay his doctor bills had just been rejected for the third time. Sue Cassidy, a pregnant resident of the Three Mile Island area, voiced her fears for her unborn baby and charged governrnent and industry with negligent deception of the public. As the day wore on, the most well-known speakers and performers took the stage. Dan Fogelberg kept the crowd en- tertained as the \heavy\ speakers got ready. Jerry Brown arrived unexpectedly and was met with mixed greetings. Barry Commoner and Kurt Vonnegut spoke their pieces, and Dick Gregory, comedian and activist, really charged up the crowd by voicing his fears, \ ... I cannot see radiation, I cannot feel radiation, I cannot taste radiation\ and \I'd rather have brownouts and blackouts than peopleouts!\ Before he was done, Gregory vowed not to eat solid food until every last nuke plant was shut down. (He performed the same sacrifice in the 60s until the war was over.) The day's most highly ap- plauded speech was given by the rally's main organizer- Ralph Nader. Nader called for the public to go back home after the rally to educate the com- munity, to vote for responsible leaders and to take their energy i11ture into their own hands. He slashed at Carter and Schlesinger as did the next speaker-Jane Fonda. Fonda delivered a caustit! speech wherein she .said that ''putting Schlesinger in charge of energy is like putting Dracula in charge of a blood bank.\ She also described Jackson Browne as \one of the most powerful anti- nuke weapons we have.\ She praised Browne for par- ticipating in the anti-nuke movement \before it was fashionable.\ Three musicians put together the perfect ending to a phenomenal day. Graham Nash did a new anti-nuke song and \Teach Your Children\ with new meaning in his voice. He then introduced the day's most exciting special guest--J oni Mitchell. Ms. Mitchell did \Circle Game,\ \Big Yellow Taxi\ (with a new anti-nuke line), and a new composition. Jackson Browne followed, the musical hero of the anti-nuke movement. Browne performed an entire set. Hopefully, the 100,000 people who marched in Washington Sunday did not march in vain. We each represented countless others who could not attend the rally. It would be a great vic- tory ofthe rally caused those in\ power to think twice as to when the profit motive begins to conflict with safety. Perhaps we can nudge the corporations into spending some of their billions on solar manufacturing and research. Satirist Kurt Von· negut took the best verbal slash at these giants of the nuclear bureaucracy with these words: \The makers of (the lies) think they are cute. They are not cute. They stink .... They are stinky stupid.\ At the very least the anti-nuclear movement should spur each and every one of us to educate ourselves on both sides of the nuclear power picture, so we can make intelligent decisions on this life and death issue; especially when we are casting oar ballots in the up- ~coming elections where this issue will be a central one.

( Page 4 CONCORDIENSIS, May JO, 19\19 ·cUlture. N.ina Stengel, Chip .Baker .and 'Natalie Bar andes in \The Tryout.\ Book Review: 'Think Like A Man. • • Full of invaluable tips Oil solving the special problems and conflicts if the businesswoman, TH.INK LIKE A MAN .. .is a timely guide for the ever increasing nw.npers of upward bound women. - ,. art& \Try-out\ In_ The Nott Union's . first · origina-l :production in allnost ten years, \The Try-out\ will be per- forlf:led on May 23 through the 27th. Gary Glauber's talent as writer and director, tops the list -of very experienced cast members. He has acted in \The TwelfthK.night\ ~nd in \Pinter Sketches'' last fall. This is complenented by his wealth of other praet ical experiences from past plays and while in England. . Todd Miller is the assistant director for the production. He has acted in \Red Ryder\ and . is weU;known for his Cabaret performances. In regards to \The Try-Out\ he states, \Gary wrote one of the finest riveting family dramas. It's great!!\ Under their direction is the five per&9n cast consisting of: Chip Baker, Verna Lowe, George Siletzky, Nina Stengel and Natalie Barandes-. Senior, Cnip Baker plays the lead r()le of Evan,. a playwrite who tries to get in tough with his own life. Chip is president of Sigma Phi, Conc~rt Manager for the Glee Club ·and a fine actor, as is apparent by his past performances,\ especially \Robber Bridegroom\ and \Skin of Our Teeth.\ He w;1s also the assistant stage manager for \Pfieffer's. People.\ Casted in the ·role of Evan's sister, Liz is Nina Stengel. A \sophomore she has acteq in \Toys in the Attic''· and por- trayed a raven in 1 The Robber Sridegroom''. Nfna is ex- tremely agile as a dan(Jer also, and was ascepted as a schol{lrship student at Alvin Ailey sc!l()ol ~or dance in NY<?., After j)Iaymg Rosamond m \Robber Bridegroom\. Marie in \Torn Paine\ Linda lA'man in \Deathof a Salesman\ and in ''Cuckoo's Nest\ junior Verna Lowe has been casted. as Lydia. Her role is one -of a hudding young actress whom Evan falls madly in love with. Brad, a young lawyer and Lydia's boyfriend,_is portrayed by George Siletzky. He has participated in · ''Death of a Salesman\ andp \ManFor All Seasons'\· H(• directed \Four Poster\ and has ·acted in ''Amorous Flea\ under the Civl~ Play House in Schenec- tady. George has alst:r done graduate w<>rk in theater at Rutger's Universit-y. - The fifth actress, who com- pletes the cast is Nat~lie Baran des, a freshman. JI~r f1rst term here, she paril'Cipated backstage ill the production of \Tom Paine\ and last term she portr~yed Arie in \The lto~ber Bridegroom\. She also adds a lorig list of high scho()J per- formances to her e~periences .. In 1 'The Try-Ollt\ Natalie is the only dominant w-oman, a director ·for the play that Evan has written. Wise, witty, and provocative, TIDNK LIKE A MAN, ACT IlKE A LADY, WORK LIKE A DOG, by Derek A. Newton, is timely and practical source of advice for the aspiring businesswoman. Unlike other books advising women on how to get ahead, this one comes from a man who knows. Professor Newton, a Harvard Business Scliool graduate, has worked in the business world and now teaches M.B.A. can- didates about that world. Jackson \Looks Sharp\ Behind the scenes are many- talented personnel also. Allston Allison, who was stage manager cm_d lighting director in ''Ro.bber Br:idegroom\ is sta·ge manager for ''The Try•Out\. The set, which ~onsists·of two apartments; was designed by John Gaines, and the technical director is George Ward. Both of these .students have done considerable 2mount of work in the theater in past productions. Props are being taken care of by David Van WElSS and Jenny Richman~ and Alan E.S. Jones and Mitch· Baruchin will be in charge of ligbting. Reminescent of the best- selling UP THE ORGANIZATION, in THINK LIKE A MAN ... Newton sets forth his ground rules in con- cise;, alphabetical order, in- cluding such topics as Credit, Criticism, Desks, Mentors, Salaries, Vacation, Wives, and much more. Also included are hypothetical cases of tricky situations in which the reader is asked to think what she would have done if faced with a similar dilenum •: A top district salesman in your tE-rritory comes to you asking for a transfer, giving as his reason, ''l don't want to work for a woman; or, you are. the only female in a group of executives and are introduced- as \the entertainment for the evening.\ . While stylistically classed with such performers as Elvis Costello and Graham Parker, Joe Jackson has managed· to create a unique blend of material on his debut LP, \Look Sharp\. Considered to be a part of New Wave rock, Jackson has one attribute which sets him apart from most figures in this genre-that is, a musical background. After he left his home in Portsmouth, England when he was sixteen, he spent the next three years studying at . the Royal Academy of Music. After that, he spent time \paying his dues,\ until the release of \Look Sharp\ which led to immediate critical ac- claim. Joe Jackson claims to be flattered fiy the comparisons to Graham Parker, but he has Notes on Thunder Ws going to thunder, i can smell the storm in the air. the steel blue clouds eat into the yellow glare on the horizon. the first rumble moans-· the domino effect as it rolls across the sky lightning sp-lits. the clouds followed by another crash. the leaves on the trees have all turned UP•· the wind's doing. electrici.ty sprinkles the air. sirens howl, lost in the storm. the blue clouds have gone gray. the -sky covered except for the mustard-ye!low on the horizon. and then the rain-- after a long time. the drops fall quickly, turning into a downpour. • I fhe rumbling rolls· on. ./ the wind ceases, the trees are quiet again. the blue comes back to the sky. the ...rumbling fades along with the lightning. the rain .is left to dr.lp off the eaves. \ -·tiers mixed feelings about Elvis. contest Album prizes will be While- he admits Costelle· has awarded to a num-ber of sharp recorded some great music, he dressers at the ~concert, More says, \As a general sort of details will be-on posters char~cter and as a stage per· scattered · throughout the former especially, I find him campus and o~ the desks -of totally obnoxious, and I'd rather .. / Concert Corrumttee members. not,be identified with him at Due to 'the fact that Jackson all. disdains to use overdubs on his One look at Jackson's clothes explains the album title. Dressed in a pinstripe jacket, polka dot. tie, and white pointed shoes, he looks like a cross 'between a, punk rocker and a Chicago gangster. In <Jrder to keep Jackson from feeling self-conscious, the Concert Committee has decided to sponsor a \Look Sharp\ album, his live performances tend to be as good as, if not better than the effect rendered by listening to the albwn. The concert will by May 26 at 9 p.m. in the Memorial Chapel, the climax of Camp Union Day. Admission will be $2.00 for Union College students. It's worth the price if only to get a look at Joe Jackson's really sharp looking shOes. Joe Jackson debuts with \Look Sharp.\'· 1st Act Jeff Battin This Week: \\7nd Act Ross Kaplan PatJ I Marvi.n Andy Neisen Larry L.ePere Bi II Di·Conza ·- M. C. ', Tickets on ~ale 8 p.m. i.n Carnegie Shows af9 & 11 r' The originality and realistic aspects of' 'Tbe Try-Out\ when combined witb this talented and experienced cast, prove to make this play a worthwhile evening for -everyone. Tickets will be on sale in the Nott Box Office in the near fllture, so keep your eyes open! 1' ou wi)t not want to :miss this excellent play in its premiere. Trio To Play THREE'S A COMPANY, Capital District resident piano trio, will give a program at -union College on Friday, May 11th at 8:()0 p.m. The concert will be held in Room No. 202 in the Dpt.' -of the Arts building, and is free to the public. It will feature Mozart's Trio No. 8 in d minor, K.\4 No. 442; ·Three· Nocturnes by Ernest Bloch and the Spanish composer Joaquin -Turina's 1st trio Op. No: '35 (1926). The trio consists of Janet Rowe, violin; Elsbeth V.T. Merriam, cello; and Carole Friedm)n• piano. Janet R<Jwe is assistant concert ma~ter Qf the Albany Symphony and Little Symphony and is well known as char:n- berlnusic player ·with Music in the Round and the Mahigian Quartet. She teaches at ·Emma Willard. Elsbetll Merriam is an established cello teacher and performer in . the area. She plays in the Albany Symphony and teaches at Union College. Carole Fl\'iedman performs frequently as sol<Jist and chamber player and is co· director ()f the series \Concerts at Noon\. · The May 11th concert is made possible by a grant from the Music Perf~rmance'TrllSt Fund and Local No. 85 of the American Federati-on of Musicians. It is co-spcnsored by the_ department of tile Arts at Union College~ For additional illformation call: 372-2932, Elsbetb v. T. Merriam, 2346 Knolls View Dr., .Schenectady, .N.Y. ~. L.------ ..... --.-.....,. ..... - .... ~-~-~---~·-\\· '!\\\!~-~---!\'. \\'!\' .... -~:..tlo-l'l_t! .. -1< ........... - ~·-~~ ;\ ,. ~-.- ... .i;\ .. ~.~-;:;.,. ~ •• • _.· ... ~ ~. ·'- \•.d.- .. ~ ~. . .- :·, ·. ~,. ..... ~.~ ~ • ~-:r:- .. ::;:r:~~:\· 1 ' :.'\:.-:: ;t .. 1''~··· - 31 ( b) T Wo: in; an We SUI pa1 Cb: dir Wi to~ sel thl Be is ei1 c~ te pe fo b~ al R B. c1 oi s·€ c p Sl a a p a a Il b 1 I ' '

) ~ ) t '{ t 1 \ 11 d e· d n 5 ~t , L. le lt lY ty 0.· in m ta m ld rte lY ~e. ClS ld :o- .'ts de be nd ;be of by at ion T. )r,, OONCORDIJ!JNS!SJ. May 10} 19'19 Page 5 arttJ· See 1 ,.Ten pttle Indians\ .this week. \T .·en Little tndiansll Opens Union College Mountebanks' preduction of Agatha Christie's chiUmg. murder mystery opens this week at the Nott Memorial Theatre and tickets are on sale now at the Nott box office from 1-'5 p.m. Once again Union theatre has produced another fine .show and this one is guaranteed to. keep the audience on the edge of . its seats. The action begins when ten strangers are brought toge.ther for the summer holiday on deserted Indian · Island off the coast of Devon, England. One by one, the guests are mysteriously murdered, yet there is no due to the mur- derer's identity. When no one else is to be founc:l· on the island, the terrifying conclusion is reached that one of the guests is , the murderer. After having seen the dress rehearsal on Monday night, I can safely say that there is enough suspense to keep the audience wondering ''whodunit\ right down to the last moment. - A: Yes. It is a wonderful cast. 'The problems are not even comparable ~o other produc- tions_!'ve performed in. Q: Why did you choose Ten Little Indians? A: We were to do Vanities, but as it was being done in New York, there was some trouble as to receiving the tights. One day we were thumbing through some Samuel French catalogues and Ten Little Indians came ,up. l thought it would be a great show. Of course, the cast is larger, the set bigger, and these things make it more difficult but it was worth it. Gleefully Together The show is an \entertaining mystery\ <ilCCording to the director, Sharon Rubin. Ms. Rubin .is no stranger to Union theatre. She may be remem- bered for fler outstanding performances as Olivia in 1'welfth Night and as Anna Reardon in And Miss Reardon Drinks A Little. She also per- f()nned in Feiffer's People and ~ppeared with the National . Theatre Institute this past .fall term. And who could forget her marvelous portrayal of ,Salome in this winter's production of \The Robber Bridegroom? Now she has turned her ta1ents to directing, and with this spring's Q: Has your conception of the show worked itself out? by-~fl,HODA KUPFERBURG The Union College Men's and Women's Glee Clubs performed in a filled Memorial Chapel to an appreciative Patent's Weekend crowd this previous .Sunday as a finale to an event· packed we~kend. The Glee Club's combined. under the direction of Prof. Hugh Allen- Wilson to sing several numbers tog~ther, including the initial selection entitled \Rejoice in the La·mb\ a cantata by Benjamin Britt()n. The cantata . is ;ln adaptation of an eighteenth century -pQ_em by C.!lristoplier Smart and contains ten· sections including a peace~ully set \Hallelujah\ and four solo sections as performed by soprano Ronda Weinberger, alto Demetra Pontisakos, tenor Robert Imrie artd bass Mitchell Blair, all members of the glee clubs. Also performed, was a series of solo selections. most notably, s·everal short works by the 11th Century composer Josquin des Pres. · These included the secular composition \El Grillo\ as sung by the women~s group and the more religious com- positions \Ave Verwn Corpus\ and \0 Domine Jesu Christe\ as sung by the Women's and men'S\group respectively. Also includedintQeprogram was the 16th century French chanson uHelas Mamour\ (Ah Me, My Lov:e) by Jacques Clement as written for a four part chorus of women~s voices. In a somewhat more con- temporary vein, ·the Women's Glee Club also performed a folk ballad entitled \I'm just a poor wayfarin' Stranger\ with soprano soloist Pamela Howell. · Among other works featured by the glee clubs was the men's rendition of the also con- temporary ''Cockles and MusselS\ as arranged by J. Jenkins ttenor soloi·st Richard Tomaszewski), \Mary Had a Baby'' a~ arranged by Wendell Whalum J (tenor soloist Robert· Imrie) and ''She is my Slender Small Love\ by Eric Thiman., As a climactic finale to the spectacular program, the glee dabs again combined to per- form an exciting medley of the loye songs of Gershwin and Porter. The selections included \J1.1st One ~of Those Things\ \l..c.iveis Sweeping the Country\ and \The Man 1 Love\. and featured Todd Miller as the narrator, Pamela Howell' as the sop~ano .soloist and Edward G. Robinson as the accompianist; As dynamic as the Gershwin and Porter nwnber was, it is qllite possible that the show stopper came in the middle of the program with a relatively new acapella group known as tlieDutcl\ Pipers. Gleaned from the Men's Glee Club, the gro!:!Jl performed a skillfully choregraphed and amusingly concocted number called \The Java Jive\. This is the second on campus :performance of the combined Men's and Women's Glee Clubs. 'rhex previously performed House Calls with Walter Matthau '&: G!enda Jackson . - May 11-13 SS016 Fri. 10 p.m. 1 . 25 .. Sat.&Sun.7,9&-np.m. $ • .· To Kill a, Mockingbird Tues., May 15 55016 7,9&1l:30p.m. $.75 together for Homecoming Weekend and have had l)lany separate concert engagements including the men's per- formances with Smith College and Wheaton College and the women's performances with the West Point Chapel choir and a well-received solo concert for Union College's Women's Week. Both groups are in the precess of planning a busy concert schedule to next years per- ~ formances on campus and away. Poetry Reading On Tuesday, May 15th Union's own literary magazine, . and the college's English ·department. will present a poetry reading. In the humanities faculty lounge Donald Finkel and Constance Urdang, both distinguished writers from Jh'e faculty of Washington University in St .. Louis, will read selections from their own favorite works. , Following the readings, the BBC film, Scott's Last Journey, which was a narrative assemblage of still photographs and movies taken during Robert Scott's ill-fated race · to the North Pole, and was also the subject of Fink(tl's award . winning poem, will be shown .. production of Ten Little Indians she has proven herself equally ·capable of this task. I asked Ms. Rubin a f'ew questions as to how she felt about directing. Q: What experienc::e have you had other than acting which prepared you for directing? . i\: I have never stage managed, but I have taken .all tbe acting and directing courses offered here. I have worked with the National Theatre institute and of course I have been influenced by the directors I have worked with. Q: Do you find yourself running into problems with the show? A: Yes, of course. There are always problems with actors. They sometimes do not realize the objective of a scene. There are tricks though, that the director can use. For instance; Patti had to dind.out what her character, Elllily, was like. I told her that Emily had to win every scene she was in and it worked. Q: Do you find yourself com- fortable wording with this cast? / A: Yes. Some directors have a vision of the show. Some have an idea, I bad an idea of what it should be. I knew the basic mood for example, some humor and some mystery. The show is a mystery, perhaps one of Christie's best. Ofie really does not know who the murderer is until the end. Also, the audience is left to decipher the mystery. That is why there are two ten minute intermissions which give the audience a little time to try to solve it. Q: Finally, how do you feel overall about the show? A: I feel really good about it. The set looks wonderful and as a whole, the show is as it should be. It shoUld come up to my expectations. ' The show is definitely en- tertaining. I thoroughly enjoyed the dress rehearsal and plan to attend at least one per- formance. I think one will find that Ten Little ladians is a marvelous show and very, very fun to watch. Tickets are going amt~zingly fast, though, so be sure tq get yours at the Nott box office any day {rom 1-5 p.m. Don't miss your chance to see Ten Little lDdi!lnS. Cicely .Tyson Performs by TOMFARREU. Cicely Tyson was said, in her introduction, to be working \1 by props, costumes, or makeup.\ And, indeed she was. She was alone on the stage, with two !rtools, a micr,ophone, and a podiwn. The simplicity of her presentation was a .point in her favor at the . outset, for me at least, since so much has hecome dependent on . the technical aspects in professional theatre. The inlpressjon Ms. Tyson gave at the outset was a haughty one. She explained to the audience why she takes questions first. U had to do with \splitting\ immediately after her poetry, reading and not having to deal with the audience afterward. She also told those who were investors in Kodak Instamatics that they had exactly five seconds to Uike their pictures. The point is valid, that of not wanting her performance interrupted by fu;lsh cubes. But the way she presented it was closer to . a .w-'\'~~ .. ._,,w_~ +·~;4f'·.~l\ \'·\'-··q.,..~·:;~ - • stern teacher dealing with a potentially unruly third grade class than an actor dealing with the audience. This impression faded almost immediately thQugh, when Ms. Tyson began the five.second count. .. One\ and she posed ''t \ th \ wo... ano er pose, \Three ... \ a pose to another section of the audience. \Three and a half.:.\ The highbrow haughty person who had yelled at us was gone, and a hwnan being was there now who was going to make that five seconds · last as long as possible. It wasn't'the last smile of the evening, nor was the fear that preceeded.it the last. Ms. Tyson did a variety of poems by a list of different poets ·she gave at the beginning. She didn't pause between them, so that, as slle had hoped, the poems would merge and make one story for her audience to understand. The story was a.rich one, and spoke of the l~ughter, fear, pride ambition, resentment, and ,,,qn4~unted. spirit pf_ the Black .., ~ ...... ......._..,.. __ .~ experience in America. Her most effective piece was the last, from by . White America, concerning a black girl trying to attend a white ·- school. The poem is a narrative of the sequence of events the girl faces, from ironing her brand new . dress, to finally crying and embracing her mother in despair, after having been chased awa~ from the school by a white mob. 'f'Ns work transcended the \ov . .rall story\ feeling the other works. This did not merge, become part of a barrage of emotion that the audience couldn 1 tcatcli all of. Ms. Tyson took the time · to let the audience feel everything that she was feeling. Not that .the \overall story\ wasn't ·a powerful ontl, but this last selection was that much more so. The evening was a thoroughly · enjoyable one, in that not only did Ms. Tyson choose to share her favorite poetry, but she shared quite a bit of herself as well.

Page6 OONOORDIENSJS) May 10, 1919 > l .. -A Look At The Candidates-~ MichaeL Bacco Michael Bacco My interest in being President of the student body stems from many factors .. Primarily it is because I feel the Forum, as an extention of the student body, has potential to do more than it is presently doing to get people interested . and involved. There is considerable opportunity for involvement, and in a number of instances, people lose interest because William Barnett William Barnett The Student Trustee is student input into the college administration. The link be- tween consumer and prodl'tcer is nece~sary for a superior product: a good school. Union faces an obscure future. Economic realities have created a competitive buyer's market for higher education. I want a chance to work for Union. Both the Union of today and our future Union: the value .. of our diploma in the job · market. Energy conservation is a purposeful endeavor, It would save our tuition dollars while also reducing \student heat.\ Offering competitive faculty salaries is important to safeguard our school's \reputat on,\ not to mention ow:.. own education. What do you think of sports, arts; and curriculum at Pafti Chaifetz Patti Chaifetz To l)egin, my name is Patti Chaifetz, and I am running for the .office of Vice President. This office .has the greatest unpact on student life, since the Vice President chairs the they are unaware of the possibilities open to tpem. As a body, the Student Forum should and can be more open and responsive to input generated from students. My primi_iry .goal next year would be to do just these thfugs. Open the Forum up more, and make students aware that it is capable of addressing questions and' generating solutions· to problems from concerts to housing. I make no empty promises or hollow slogans; instead, I can only assure each of you that I will work as hard as I can and I wilf be as · available as is possible to input and -suggestions and will work to make the Forwn as open and responsive an organization as is possible. My name is Ken Plumb and I am running for the President of the Student Body primarily because I feel that I have the necessary Qualifications to hold Union? . Let me .have the opportunity to inject ouf' student viewpoint. . I have enjoyed Union JV basketball; election, campusj and conduct committees; and SEA. I offer my experience. and energy as the student link to administration. ·Joe Cardany In the paSt few years, this campus has seen one crisis after another. Enough! We have a new president now, a new direction. It is time .to rid ourselves of the scandals, the negativism, and the impotence that has pervaded Union life and its governance. The search for a president has so consumed this campus that the other problems facing this school ha~~ been neglected. Now is the Joe Cardany Committee on Committees. It is to this committee people submit their applications in hopes o~ being placed .on an All Colleg.e Senate or Student Government Committee. B\y controlling the nuinber of people on each committee .and who will be placed, the Comlllittee on Committees. virtually regulates the number of people involved in committees as ·Union. What I,offer is this: an honest approach to the Committee on Committees which includes scrapping committees which ~xist in name only and placing more people on active com- mittees which influence student life. Working on .. student government ot· on a conlinittee .often times more importantly, \ how our system fails to work. Ken Plumb this office.- This fact is im- portant becaus.e if l felt that I had. not .put the necessary time and effort into getting involved in student government, l could in no way .feel justified in asking . for your support .. However, in my present position as .JWlior Class Representative, I have served on the All-College Senate, the Student Forum and. Coll1Il1ittee on Committees. As a result of this participation, I have sufficient understanding of how our system works and, time for us to get moving, to; face the issues. Admissions; faculty, facilities, the library, tuition, athletics, and a host of other issues all require at- tention. The stud.ents of this school need and dese~e vibrant and visible representation, a trustee wi1o will be both responsive to the wishes of the students and assertive in presenting and defending the views of the student body. As your trustee, I will not be placated by lip service. I will demand not only that the studwts' views be heard, but that they be acted upon. So get out and vote, and if you have any questions, give me a call at 382-9582. Bruce Kaplan I am running for Junior Trustee because I believe in the futilre of Union College. To that end, with your help, I will , present our opinions and goals to the Board of Trustees most forcefully. The student voice must be heard. My plans include: 1) Waste · reducing .savings programs for maintenance, security, energy, and student tax expenditures; 2) Increased allocations to completely refurbish our present athletic facilities and b1Jild new ones immediately as funds become available; 3) creating more campus student . For this reason I ask for your support on Tuesday, May 15th. Please feel free to call (382- 9029) if you have any _questions or comments. Thank you .for your cooperation. ·- Wayne Tunick During the past three years, maqy changes have taken place on Union's campus. Ullfor· tunately, several of these were negatije and not in the best interest of the . campus com• munity as a whole. Why was the .bef>t intere~t ofthe student body ignored? It seems that there was not enough backbone behind the opinions of the. key student leaders who could :have· organized the most powerful force on campus: the vQice of the people who pay the bills, the students. The office of President can carry a great deal of authority. The Pte~ident should use his Bruce Kaplan ' jobs instead of paying in- competent, high salaried help; and several others contained in my position papers. . To best represent the entire campus, I am forming a voluntary advisory group to keep me abreast. of all facets of student life. Please join so that our campus voice . is represented accurately. The time of the ''inner political\ cliques is over. Please help me. Feel free to call me with questions or ideas at 37.0-6574. Thank you. Ed Lonergan - The liberal tradition at Union has long combined a well organized pr<fgr:am of student services, f?.oth academic and extra-curncular. Recently, .however:, the coll~ge has __ em,· phasized some aspe-cts of liberal should be a learning experience himself with a system he has available to all. ' · never worked with before. The Go out and vote, everyone from freshman to senior class is eligible. Even if it means little to you, let someone who care~ try to work and make it a more worthwhile e]l:perience. Dave O'Connor > ' It is very itn.Qortant that the Vice-President of the Student Forum takes office in Sep- tember and starts working at his job, instead_ of wasting valuable time familiarizing · _. Vice-President is 1) a voting member of the Student Forum, assisting the President, 2) . a voting member on the All- - College Senate, dealing with Dave O'Connor position to. press for positive ac~ion an~f not allow an opinionated faction to dominate the Forum's policies and decisions. Remember, ''Ask Rot ·whatyo'ncando for your school, but what your school can do for you!\ There will be a complete rundownofmy platform at 5:15 p.ro. at j\:lumnt Gym on Thutsda~. May 10. Sincerely, Wayne Tunick,. '80. Wayne -Tunick educ.ation to the detriment Qf others. -To remedy this situation, it has. been proposed t)lat a portion of the endowment be used for the improveipent of the Arts . curricplum and Union's athletic facilities-both vital attributes ,rof a liberai education. The final decision concerning this proposal rests with the Board of Trust.ees, who may not realize the absollJ.te need for improvement in these areas. Thus, the duty of the campus trust~e~ .1s to bridge the information gap between the campus community and the board by keeping the board abreast of current faculty and student views on the future of the college. It is imperative that we elect students who can ar· ticulate and advance -student- sought priorities on the basis of well-reasone.d arguments and sound premises. Thank .YOU: Ed Lonecgan. . college decision-making, and 3) Chairperson of Committee on CoiniQittees, . overseeing committees and accepting r~sponsibility for their func- tioni.Jtgs. I tis possible to .be v .P. ~ithout extensive baCkground m these areas; however, the demands this position entails make . it a difficult training ground. Having served on the three bodies mentioned above., I am sure of my abilities to fUnction a$ an extremely ef- fective Vice-President, helping to better· the student body and acceeptlrrg responsi.bility for failures. I know that I will do a great job as your Vice- President, considering the . needs of both Greek Societies and Independents, and ask for . your support. Thank you. Jl r t My am .5 Tl stu< Uni ftue initi inpl just 198: ene will our da: my cla } ha: cor Ci'l

- r,f is ~d nt Qf ld tb al )0 :ts tJ.o .te se be he he he rd nd of tat lr· nt· of nd I - 13) on ing ing mc- r.P. und the ails ting the •e, I to ef- fing and for loa ice- the ~ties · for • CONOOBDIENSIS,_ May 10~ 1919 Page 7 ......... -Student Elections 1979'.-- 8111 Meehan Bill Meehan My name- is Bill .Meehan and I am running for J.unior re~resentative. With the ap- pomtment of a new President Union Colleg,e now has · th~ opportunity to move ahead and leav~e the problems of the past behmd. l~nportant con- siderations are the need to establish direction, for- the athletic 'program and the promotion of better com- munication between ad- ministrators, faculty and the student body. Union has a lot to offer to its students, but this is not a one-way street. Student input into the- school is· im- po~tant as well. Represen· tatlves who are sensitive to student attitudes and who will present tbes_e attitudes · in the Student Forwn are needed to assure that the interests· of the student body are sei:ved. It is for this reason that I seek the position of Junior- Class Representative and ask for your support. Thank you. Vernon Wetmore To the crass of 1981. My name is Vernon Wetmore and l'm a new face to student government here at Union. The past two years I have mayed away from college politics simply because I was not sure of the college's various needS or the direction in which it was heading, I now think I can make a ,contribution by letting the student and school government know how many classmates and myself . feel about certain areas. I personalty feel we should try to strengthen :many areas on campus so as to give each student an equal opporlunity to excel: in the field he pr she chooses. By strengthening certain areas we might cut down on the number of tran: sfers and increase t})e learning experience of alL Our library, the Arts Department, and Athletics, both· intramural and intercollegiate, are all areas that could, by giving them more support, benefit a large partion of present and future Union sttideats. This is my platform and I would appreciate your vote of confidence on May 15th. Vernon Wetmore Sophomore Representative ................................. ....._ ................ --------- Claire Burchill Claire Burchill The Student Forum, as the student governing body of Union College, directly in- fluences aU of us. The policies it initiates and formulates reflect input from every student, not just a select few. The Class of 1982 needs dedicated and energetic -representatives who will work in the best interests of our class. As your sophomore dass representative I would do my best to represent the entire class. A strong·student g9vernment has its foundations in the concern of its students. To create a stronger student government for next year each of us must not pass up the opo portuni~y to vote.. Please, on May 15th, remember to vote and vote for the candidate who you feel will do the most for the Class of 1982. Robert Feinberg I ' I think iUOO members of our class were asked to name a --member of the Student Forum, less than ten coUld name just one. There is a definite lack of communication between the student body and the peopk representing it. Our class, the Class of -,82, is a very diverse . J . Robert Feinberg group. In order to represent us well, I will draw on opinions from all over --the campus. The feelings of groups such as the B.S,A., J.SD.~Hillel, the S.E.A., and all other interest groups will be extremely important to the decisions. that I make. However, :the gr~up of students that I will represent with the most vigor is the group ·Of in- dividuals of our class. · Give me the chance to represent you: This campus has - many problems. Together, we can solve them. Will lloyd My name is Will Lloyd. I am running for one of the two sophomore representative spots on the Student Forum. ThroughoU:t the year most freshmen have heard of the Student Forum, but few are aware of its functions or the actions it has taken. The Student Forum needs to have a louder voice. The Student Forum is supposed to represent the student body, but if the students do not know what is happening they Will not know how they want to be represented. The students have two ways to be represented in' -~ ........___ . Will Lloyd Student Forum: by talking to those who are elected to the positions and with their votes. It is very Important that everyone vote. I would be more than happy to talk with anyone about my views and thoughts. I live in room 424 .of West College. Betsy Modest The key to selecting a can- didate w:llo will ·represent the voice of our class does not lie in the ability to make superficial promises which will not be prirsued. Rather, the key to selecting. a candidate depends on a working knowledge of the • CAll:· 78·3~2536 o,r stop by Un~~n s&·E Bldg. Rm. 116~ Wed., '11~3. .ARMY' ROTC .. TH.E 110-YEIR PROIIII. problems which are present, and the candidate's insight and ideas which could be im- plemented to resolve them. It is this ability which I fel best qualifies me for the position of Sophomore Class Represen- tative. . Over the past year I have becom.e familia.r with the Student ForU:m !s operations and procedures. I understand the role of Sophomore Class Representative on tlle Student Forum and feel confident in my ability to serve on· all designated comlllittees. I would like ~to stress that, if elected, I will remain enthusiastic and · active for the duration of the entire academic year. Thank you. - Set-$y Modest

Page 8 OONCORDIE:NSIS, May· 10, 1979. ArOund Campus . '. \ ·Cellist I Performs Cellist Robert Day Allen, a biologist at Dartmouth College, will perform here on Monday, May 14 at .8 p.rn. Admission is free. Allen will perform \Arioso by J.S. Bach; Sonta in G Major, by Jean Baptiste Breval; Sonata in D Major, Op. 102, No. 2 by Beethoven; and Sonata in C Major, Op.110 by Sergei Prokofieff. His - piano ac- companist will be Beverly R. 'Gaylord. Allen is the second scientist- musician to visit Union in recent weeks. .Both are per- forming in conjunction with a seminar on creativity taught by Willard Roth, professor of biology, and Edgar Curtis, professor of music. sidered in 1945, because of a slow-healing . hand injury. Nevertheless, he attended the Boston Symphony's summer music school, Tanglewood in the Berkshires for two years as a Koussevitsky Scholar and for one additional year as the winner of a scholraship in national competition. · As a student at Brown University, he gave annual recitals at the college, played chamber music concerts with three. members of the · music faculty, taught cello to six other students, and served as prin- cipal cellist of the Rhode Ishmd PhilharrnoRic. Orchestra as well as the Brown University Orchestra. · His recital will be held in Room 202 of Un:ion's arts building. For more information, call the arts department at 370- 6201. Schc:1ffer Library in past-years, causing numerous complaints of libt\ary inefficiency and a sizable. loss · .of library materials, an anti-theft :system was installed .and put into operation thjs past year. This system, the. 3M Company's so- called ''Tattle-Tape Brand Book Detection System,\ has, ac- cording to Assistant Librarian Janet. Gregor, ''proven itself to be a marvellously effective book theft deterrent.'' And the system's effectiven:ess is not confined enly to the monitoring of book theft, as it also may traffic ':\coming through the library doorways. The _patron counter, which operates oo a stand-.by basis, is activate<! electrically when patrons· in\ t~rrupt the invisible, infra-re<l .photocell beam across the exit passageway. Since there is no way to set it back to zero, readings must be taken .dally. Po~ets To Read protect unbound periodicals, Donald Finkel and Constance phonodiscs, phonodisc jackets, Urdang, distinguished writers ca~settes, cartridges,. paintings, on the faculty of Washington prmts, and reels of film. University in St. Louis, will The Tattle•Tape Brand Book rea$! their poetry at 7:30 p.m. Detection System was first Tuesday, May 15 in the Faculty marketed in 1910'. It operates on Lounge of the Humanities . an electromagnetic principle. A Building. low frequency electrical signal Finkel, described by a recent I n . t :J:I w k - is triggered when a thin reviewer as \·one of the finest ·e e·. . metallic detection strip,. con- .Anierican poet!;i writing today,\ . cealed in library materials, will read selections from his stimulates an alternating work-in-progress and from his on Friday, May 11, Professor electro-magnetic Held. If a most recent books, Goimg of Political Sdence Robert patron attempts to pass the Under, a lyric exploration of the Sharlet will interview three detector with material not experience of \going under\ in refuges from disparate checked out or not cleared for the Mammoth Cave complex of backgrounds-a Soviet Jew, a circulation, a chiin.e sounds and Kentucky, and Endurance: An Ugandan, and a Vietnamese-as the gate locks. Antarctic Idyll, a recoW}ting of part ·of a discussion of human The basic components of the · Ernest Shackleton's \glQriously (category A) will be earned. Thistbird course wiU meet on a weekly basis and Will be designed to take advantage of Washington's unique cultural attractions. . While in the nation's capital, the interns will be -provided with aweekly allowance for food and local transportation, Housing arrangements are made in advanc.e at a strtgle location-.. probably in the Dupont Circle area, close to Georgetown and a· subway ride to Capitol Hill. Program participants will' also benefit from a weekly series of prominent speakers who ad- dressthe.group at the home of a Unionalumnus ( arnid an ample supply of· beer and pretzels). Union's Washington Program is somewhat unique in that the Political Science Department is able to make mo$t of the ad- vance preparations for living and working arrangements and provides for the guidance of a fulltime Union .faculty member. If you are interested in gaining practical exp.erience in government while }laving a great time and· earning academic credit, please pick up an application form. (The deadline for completed ap- plications is Monday afternoon, · May 21.) Prospective ap- Allen was recently appointed Ira Allen Eastman Professor of Biology at Dartmouth, where he was professor and chairman of the Department of Biological Sciences from 1975 through 1978. His special interests in the fields of cell biology and biophysics are cell motility and microscope instriunentation. He has received a number of grants and awards including two Guggenheim Fellowships and a visiting professorship from the J a pari Society for the Promotion of Science. His publications include two bo<lks, over 100 research articles, and 25 research documentation and instructional films in biolegy. rights. · Tattle-Tape System are the'-. futile\ attempt to land a The discussion will take pl'ace sensing unit and the detector, transcontinental expedition on ,, 'plicants with additional As a musician, he began lessons on the piano at age three and on the cello at age five. He gwe his first recital at age 10 in Providence, Rhode Island. From 1937 tintil1949, he studied with Jean Bedetti, then prin- cipal cellist of the Boston Symphony Orchestra. From 1942 to 1949 he concertized througl:).out New England· while managing the usual academic and extracurricular activities of high school and college, ill- eluding participation in basetball and track teams. His early intention to become a concert cellist was recon· at 4:30 in Hale House. the oook check Uilit, and the the shore offrozen Weddell Sea. It's one of a number of events circulation desk control panel, Urdang,·whom critic Richard sponsored by Union's Intt!r- The sensing unit ·controls How ad has praised as national Students Association library exit tt\affic and, working ''spellbinding,\ will read from May 8 through 12 as part of an in conjunction with the detector her forthcoming book of poems, \lnternational Week.\ post, effectively searches each. The Lone Wo!Wln of San Nicolas On Thursday, May 10, · exiting patron· for library Island. . Stephen Berk, associate materials improperly checked The readings will be followed professor of history, and P.J: out. The book check unit, by a showing of the BBC film Vatikiotis, visiting professor of utilizing electrically sensitive \Scott's Last Journey,\ a history and . politics and an tape, activates and deactivates narrative -assembla-ge of.- still eminent authority on Middle library material. The cir~ photographs and movies taken East politics, will discuss the culation desk control panel on· at the tirrle of Robert' Scott's Arab-Israeli conflict at 8 p.m. in the system activates the entire disastrous race to' the So11th Strauss Lounge. _ system and resets it after an Pole, a trip which was, in large alarm. part, the subject of Finkel's Tattle \ Tape In a summary effort to discourage the covert book 'borrowing' and the overt book theft which has plagued Union's · The alarm system of the award-winning long poem, mechanism features both Adequate Earth. acoustical and visual ·alarms. The event is sponsored by The system may be put on Idol, the college arts and stand-by if a malfunction occurs literary magazine, and the and, while the sound alarm will ·English department. be deactivated, the control panel red light visual alarm will continue to function. The system also serves the purpose of coUJlting the daily Term Abroad --Area Ca-lendar-- Applications are now available. for stud.ents who desire to participate in the Political Science Department's DANCE May,14. Electronic Body Arts begins its new session of classes in dance, movement, theatre arts,· and body developi:Ilent on May 14 ~ the EBA Chapter House Theatre, 351 Hudson Avenue in Albany. Classes include disco, ballet, jaz:z, tap, and m()dern /dance. -Other technieques- offe.red cover . mime, theatre games, Dan- cercise, T'ai Chi, and creative movements for all ages. For free brochure call 465~9~16. MUSIC May 8. The University Community Orchestra of SUNY A, with conductor Nathan Gottschalk, will present the annual Student Concerto Concert Tuesday evening· at 8·t30 p.m. in the Main Theatre of SUNY A's Performing Arts Center. The concert will feature studen~s selected by .audition to appear in the Orchestra. The program will include works by Grieg, Mozart, Mendelsshohn and Beethoven. The convert is sponsored by the Music Department at the University at Albany. For futher information, please call the Performing Arts Center at 457-8608 or 457.f3977. May-12. Mezzo soprano Carla Cook Ross will appear' as Special Guest artist with the University Chorale on Saturday 8:30p.m. in the Main Theatre of SUNY A's Performing Arts Center. The University Chorale, under tbe direction of Don Haines Guidotti, will feature World's Greatest Choruses, from th{l \Hallelujah Chorus\ to \Godspell'\ Carla Cook Ross will joln the Chorale for per- formances of Bach's Agnus DE>i from the B minor mass and the Brahms Alto Rhapsody. The concert is sponsored by the M11Sic Department of the University at Albany. For furth'er information can the SUNY A. Box Office at 457-8608. May 12. A workshop in Early · Music conducted by Morris Newman will be held Saturday from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. in the Parish Hall of St. George's Church, Clifton Park. The annual Workshop is sponsored by the Northeastern New York Chapter of the American Recorder Society. For further information conta(;t the ARS Chapter President at .377-7738. May 13. The Milsic of Soma and the College of Saint Rose Jazz. Ensemble will be per· formmg in a benefit concert for the La Salle School Fines Arts Scholarship FUlld on May 13, 1979 at 3 p.rn. in the main auditorium of the Capital District psychiatric Center on New Scotlarrd A venue in Albany. For infoi'Illation dial ' 4119-4731. RUSSELL SAGE COLe May 7. Student Art EXhibit: ' Exhibit will continue through May 15 at the New Gallery, SFAC. . May 9. Film: \The Wizard of· OL'', 4:30 p.m. Schact Fine Arts Center. . May 11. Variety Show: ' American Musical Theatre Variety Show. Directed by Dirk · Hinyer.1 :30 p.;m. Schacht Fine .. Arts Center. WR.ITING May 14-16. An intensive three- 1 day seminar in grant . writing will be held at the College of St. Joseph the Provider from 9 am. to 5 ·p.m. on May 14, 15, 16 .. Participants will be instructed in techniques of identifying sollrces of funding and irl the preparation of proposals and applicat~<ln forms. To regi~er <lr obtam more infortnation, interested persons should contact Cecile Betit at (802) 775- ~. . ~ 1919-1980 Winter· Term in Washington, D.C. The ap· plication forms may be .ob- tained from Mrs. Jean Kozel ill the Political Science Depart. ment Office; Room 216; Sociiil Sciences Building. The program is open to majors and non· . majors of sophomore, junior or senior standing. As in the past, the·w ashington · Program will provide the op- port~ity . for twenty highly · motlvated students to earn academic credit while working full-time (four days a week) as an intern jn the .office. <1f a United States Congressman. one course credit will be earned through the mternship work itself and related assignments. Internship duties include . constituent casework, speecb- writing, legislative research and attending committee hearings. A' second course credit is earned through an independent r~search pr.o.ject on a. topic. tbf the student's own choosing; this project should be designed to take advantage of research sources that would not be avaUable at the Union campus. In addition, the Political Science· Department will make arrangements for a third C()urse to be offered in the arts, for which, Liberal Learning cre<lit questions about the program are encojraged to speak with any of the former participants; their names may be obtained .in the Political Science office. I.A. M. Progra~ Six .certificate programs wili be offered by Union's Institute of Administration and Management this slinuner. Two will be \refresher\ programs for experienced managers: one for liberal arts majors in- tending to start graduate business studies.; and three for undergradu~tes. In each case, a certificate is earned by ·the successful completion of a sequence of related courses. Each of the six programs can be completed in <lne sUIIliiler,. and all courses carry appropriate college cre.dit.· The two certificate programs intended as \refreshers\ for those holding M.B.A. or M.S.LA. degrees, or for ex- Pttrienced managers, are \Management -Information Systems\ and ''Marketing Management.\ Each program includes two six-week courses. ''Quantitative Methods Preparation\ is designed for persons with liberal arts backgrounds who are planning to pursue graduate w.ork in management but don 1 t have strong quantitative skills. It includes thre.e courses-· \Introduction to Computers in Management,~'. ''.Quantitative \Methods in Administt\ation and \Applied Statistics · and Systems Simulation.'' . The three other programs are intended primarily for un· dergraduates ot those who have recently earned B.A.'s but who are. not planning to start gt\aduate work .. immediately. ~eprograms are ''Accounting· M:·anagement Information /S~~tems,\ \Accounting-Stat· ist1cs,\ and \Accounting· Management.\ ' \This is the first time the lnstitute of Administration and Management is offering a h . . :( f compre ens1ve sertes o cer· tificate programs in a single summer,\ said Dr.. Alfred Thimm. institute director. Continued on page 9 ·Cont \Each prograr his or and ea~ a diffe1 manag, Thos to a c contac Adml Manag Pc S·~ Politi talk by Thursd ss 016 ElecH Politic Mathe1 Prof. structl object] politi< max in resultl Pro! theor! back€ and 1 de vel theori polici• - Sc M Th Thet Mar; pm, onD play Dist Seal Tt how with the Mar now Phi, viet p eve1 bee tici] pla: <-'au ' rol IDE cl~ on SOl pl. ti\ hi s~ to cl Si y c d

a of in a· of fa ple is f a in in a up ap· ap- nal will and one in- for is of six lege for or ex- are for arts in have It in -and are un- who start ation the and a cer· single ector. 9 CONOORDIENSJS, Yay 10, 1979 Page 9 . I ------Aro.u.nd· Campus~T ___. Continued from .page & \Each student Cfin take the program most closely suited to his or her professional needs, and each pr.ogram emphasizes a different, important area in management.'' . Those interested in admission to a certificate program can contact the Institute of Administration and Management, Bailey Hall. Political Speakers \> Political Forum will present a talk by Prof. Robert Hoyer on Thu.rsday, May 10 at 8 p.m. in · SS .016 on \The Structure of ElecHons: What Every Politician Shou\d, Know About Mathematics.'' ln this lecture, Prof. Hoyer will. discuss the structure ,of elections, several objectives that the ·~rational\ politician . might seek to maximize, and some Interesting results. • Professor Hoyer is a for-mal theorist who applies his background in mathematics and political science to the development of deduct.ive theories of democracy, public received his :Ph.D. in statistics kom Virginia Techand has held Jackson, as well as T.he Imperial Presidency, the prize~ winning_ Thousand Days, and t'he two v·olume Age . ·of Roosevelt. 'His most recent a joint appointment in Statistics and Politican Science at the Univ~rsity ofJ.estVir~in~a and ap~mtments .m ~tatlstJCS ~t Prmceton Umvers1ty and m P<>lilical Science. at Yale University. He is currently Study Director at the-Center for Political Studies and a member ·- of the Department of Political Science at the Univers!ty of Michigan. He has authored a number of articles ·in ,professional journals including:' ''Comparing .Strategies in _a Spatial Model · of Electoral Competition,\_ ''On Social ~reference Orderings__ under Majority Rule,\ and \Some Problems in the Validation of Models of PolitiCal Phenomena: · The Case of the Supreme Court.\ . book, Robert Kennedy and His 1'imes, has just receiVed the National Book Award in biography, the second time ~chlesinger has :won the award, and he ilas twice won Pulitzer Prizes, once in history ~nd once in hiogvaphy. Prof. SchlesingE!r Political Forum will be 'sponsoring a lecture by Prof. Arthur ~Schle'!nger, Jr., on \The Impact of Vietnam on American Lives\ at 8 p.m. neld Thursday, May 17 in SS 016. This will be the annual Brackett Lecture }6intly sponsored by the Brackett Fund, the Lester Fund, and Political Forum. Prof. Schlesinger is one of the foremost political historians iri America. He is the author of the. -widely acclaimed Age of has taught at Harvard Ur:t'ivetsity, has served ~s Special Assistant to the President of the United States, .and is currently the Albert Sctt· · weitzer Professor of Humanities at the · City University of New York. HOme Buyer's In August of 1978 People's Advisory Service of 401 Craig Street, Schenectady initiated a new: service to the corrununity, .the Home Buyer's Program. This program offers assistanc-e to persons either wanting to~ or sell a home in Schenectady .. . concentrating primarily on the Hamilton HHl, Vale, and Central State Street neigh- borhoods. P.A.S. Home Buyer's Program is a two-fold program.· First, bettering liVing con· ditions and enabling people not to be the tenants of slum Ian· dlords, and seaondly., bettering the neighborhoods by the motivation of pride in owner· ship. P.A.S. offers tbis program strictly as a serVice, collecting no fees. The primary services of the Home Buyer's Program are: CoWtseU,ng to arrive at a decision of tbe type of home su_ita:ble to the client; studying the financial resources of the client to ascertain what is within his-her .income; ac· companying the cliei\t to check out properties being con-· sidered; explaihing the process of applying for a mortgage; helping to locate an attorney; link;ing up with local realtors to show properties; and finally, counseling in regard _ to the responsibilities of - home own~rship. Phi Beta Kap,pa On May 1, 1979 the following students wer~ elected members of Phi Beta Kappa: Class of 1979: Anderson, James C.; Bankowitz, Richard; Clark, Cynthia A.; Cohen, Linda J.; +Felker, Peter M..; +Feldman, David; Flescher, ·Jonathan; +Garbowit, David L.; Gemmette, Elizabeth V.; Godwin, Lydia; Haddad, Jo. Ann; ·Hinrichsen, Katrin-; Jenkins, William R.; Kronish, Susan; Lyons, John D.; Marks; Steven D.; +Marrs, Peter B.; Massaroni, Christopher; MattiJnore, Mary; McKeegan, Bruce; McLaughlin, Paul J.; Okladek, Leslie J.; Schulze, Ruth J.; Silverstein, Karen E.; Tannenbaum., Robert K.; . Walter, Lori; and +Weinstein, Robert E. Class of 1980: Miles, Steven R. arid Salerno, J(lmes. +Elected in their Junior year. Juniors in the top 2 percent and seniors in the top 9 percent of their class are eligible for election to membership in Phi Beta Kappa. In addition seniors may also be nominated for a; electi~n. by two Union College faculty members. Election to Phi. Beta Kappa is bas._ed on seholarship and character, with particUlar attention given to intellectual maturity and breadth. -----Fra~erni/ty Happenings-.'--- policies, and social choice. He I ' \ Softball Marathon The Second Annual Phi Delta Theta--Delta Phi Softball Marathon will be held from 2 pm, May 15, until 2 pm, May 16 on Daley Field. Funds raised _by players will benef~t the Capital - District division of Easter Seals. · · The event is a twenty-four hour continuous softball game, with participants competing for the Easter Seals Softball Marathon trophy. The trophy is now in the possession of Delta Phi, as a result of their 1978 victory, 213 to 186 in 204 innings. Pizza J{ut is sponsoring the event and will don:;tte pizza, beer and soda for the par- ticipants. Come and root for the players and support a good <-'iiu.se! Sig-Chi Clambake With spring fever finally rolling in at Union, it can only mean_ one thing: Sigma Chi's clambake is on the way. In fact, only two weeks remain until the soCial. event of the spring takes place. With· additional ac· tivities, and an ~extended menu higlilighting the bake on Saturday,.May 19, this promises to be the best clambake yet. · \ There will be all tbe coni, chicken, pt>tato salad, macaroni salad, hot dogs, and clams that you CC::ln eat, along with all the cold beer you coUld· possibly drink. So hurry up and buy your clambake ticket, $5 from until the clambake, and $6 at the clambake). Purchase a colorful tee-shirt for only $3.50. . The clambake provides the unique opportunity of con· tributing to charity while having a great time. So don't wait until May 19 to catch clambake fever, get your tickets and tee-shirts now! Fiii Island For most. Union students, mired for most of the year in Schenectady, a visit to a South Seas island is little more than a dream. But for those who can't get away, ther.e will be good news next week, when all the excitement and atmosphere of the South Pacific come here. That's because thj.s Sunday marks the start of ''Fiji Island '79.\ Ddring this event, the brothers of Phi Gamma Delta will reconstruct their house into a tropical paradise, complete with huts and a waterfall. Construction will take place during the week .. While the brothers are • ·making preparations, they'll be wearing island attire. So don't be sur· prised to see Fiji brothers walking to class or, around campus anytime next w~ek garbed in grass skirts and o1her native dress. I The culmination of the week There will be a sp~cial 50 cents-a-ticket raffle with free dinners and a t.V. as prizes l To top off athe aU-afternoon party, there will be an all-campus party on Satu.,_..day night at Si~a Chi. will come Saturday night, May \9, with an open band party at the h<mse. On display will be the myriad of iSland creations constructed during the w~ek. In addition, music will be provided · until tbe wee hours with the sounds of \Shades a_,hot new band that's already won con· siderable acclaim. It all adds up to an exciting evening. The brothers are hoping for a strong turnout from the rest of the campus com- munity to join in , their celeb1·ation. \Fiji Islands\ are staged by chapters of Phi Gamma Delta nationwide. But the brothers here think theirs is something special. That's why it only takes place every other year. \Having Fiji Island every other year . makes it more memorable,\ said semor brother Kevin. Kilbourne, one of the event's coordinators. . For everyone involved, this year's island week Should provide enough memories to lastat least two years. All ofthe members of the house are looking forward to a lot of campus . support to help them cap off the event. Race For Breath ,Starting Friday, May 11, at 5:00 pm, 25 brothers and pledges of Phi Sigma Kappa will run for 24 consecutive hours to benefit the Cystic Fibrosis Foundation. They ,are dedicating the effort to the memory of a Phi Sig brother of the class of 1976 who died last year from the effects of this crippling respiratory disease, and calling it \The Race for Breath.\ The runners will take turns running ' consecutive half-mile ·.~.·.············~~·······w.···-.·.J I t 's D..,.,. .......... ,.• .. •-.•,.• ............... •.•;J laps through the center of the campus, starting 'near Old Chapel, and around Library Field. Over the entire 24-hour period, they hope to run 150 miles or more. Members of the campus conununity are con- tributing.· to the · e~fort by pledging to donate to . Cystic Fibrosis a certain amount of money for each mile the run· ners achieve. In addition, the runner-s will be carrying the names of business sponsors on the back ofT-shirts printed for the marathon. There will be beer at the site, and music provided from WRUC remote. So ,come to the race, cheer on the runners, and give to find a cure for Cystic Fibrosis. For information about making a pledge cal1370-6806 or 370-6586. The D.U. FABULOUS 50 1 5 PARTY. Get greased up and twist yourself back 25 years. Friday, May 11 at 9:30 Be There!· CIU-J»si Charity farty May 12 9:00p.m . Costu.me Theme -Peoples of the World- Come represent your favorite country ,Featuring: So if you want to get away from it all, stop by at the 'Fiji house next Saturday night, May 19,. and experience the exotic · 1 beach atmosphere and swn- mertime excitement of a South Seas island. Union Jazz Band Coffee house entertainment Gambling 3 Punches Beer, Shots Food Admission: $3.00 $4.00 at door ...

i ., I ' t •' ' . .i :Page 10.·. BULLETIN BOARD 'Typing-fast, accurate and neat. IBM Selectric-reports, theses, resumes, letters, etc. Call Kathy Rasimas, 371-2975. The Department of History will hold its Annual Picnic on Tuesday, May 15at 4:30p.m. m Jackson's Gardens. All History majors and History IDs are invited to. attend. RSVP to Ms. Sweet, Histoty Department, Rm. 213, SS Bldg., x-6620, by Friday noon, May 11th. Att.ention Students: This is your last chance to call up a reserve space for your things to betaken home on a moving van. . There are still' a few spaces open but they won't be around for long. If you want your things taken home for you in June, at a· fraction of the cost, call now! ! If you live in Westchester, The Bronx, Staten Island, >Manhattan, Brooklyn, Long Island-or northern New Jersey, don't miss this chance. Call393- 8684 and ask for Ben. ' The Union College Biology Club is hosting what should prove to be two very interesting lectures in this upcoming week. Make 'SUre to mark these dates on your calendar and plan to attend. Monday, May 14-;4:30 p.m. in SS 016--\The Motility and Transformation of Human Blood Platelets,\ Dr. Robert D. Allen, Chairman of Biology, Dartmouth College. . Thursday, May 17...-.4:30 p.m. . in SS 115--\Polyamines as Regulators- of Senescence in Protoplasts and Excised Plant Parts,\ Dr. Arthur W. Galston, Professor of Biology, Yale University. Refreshments will be available at 4 p.m. before each lectu,re. -~ OONOORDIENSIS, May 10, 1979 Placement Office for further information. Burroughs Corporation, Paoli, P,a.--has position openings . for Management Systems Analyst, Asst. Management Systems Analyst, Asst. Management Systems Analyst. Check with Placement. For permanent and summer jobs, check with Placement. Also check us for Internships. ROOMS/ROOMATES Summer Sublet for 3 or 4 people, fully furnished, half block from campus. Call Bob 377-6360. 4 . bedroom apartment available for summer sublet. Very close to campus,. very reasonable. Call 6804 or contact Box 295. · Wanted: Female roommate for next year. Off campus apartment very close to school on Eastern A venue. ..Rent is approximately $45-mo. + utilit\es. Available for slllllmer also. Call 370.()843. Room in faculty home· on c::ampus. Rent-free in return for waxing floors, washing win,. dows, etc. Two· places available for all of next year, and possibly one place for the coming swnmer. Call Mrs. Huntley, 374-1495. . . LOST Vanina, chairperson of the Film Committee at 370-'6855, or Lorraine Bohanske, advisor of the Film Committee at 370- , ' . . 6653. FOR SALE - For Sale: Commencement 'Cap and Gown, women's, not .tall, worn only once (June '78).. Half-,price . . . save! Call 374· 3600, evenings only. Perfect \Grad\ or \Thai.Uts Mom and Dad'' gift:'With You In Mind. Ask to see it at the Campus Store! ' Porthos and Athos ·are new challengers to Aramis,' record of walking into tbings.! Pat andSadi-All for one ... ! . Melissa: You. +&?!+?&!+&?!freshman. A sophisticated senior Man-You are so assertive as an RAL!c . ' ~. M and K-Thanks .all of yo11 for putting up :witl:l rae--rr _ 8-Hold the whip,_ please! r don't think I .need it yet:!! !-D · Gull and Baum-Thanks for everything, especiany rolling on the ground at tll-e 17th hole.- Disco - LOST: of great sentimental'-,./ · yo-watch o~t or the 11atives value-114k. gold doubles-chain IDlght get you. May y10u get bracelet and 1 sterling silver more sun than .!'e do · • . PSP necklace with pearshaped turquoise pendant. Reward..- Call Donna 370-6777. HELP- WANTED Do Y0\1 want to help? You can talk· to the animals, sing to the animals, but. you can't play games with the animals .. ? G.C.-Who'd like ,to know??!- P.T. Vegrnore pot cleaning ser:. vice-Available 24 hours · Shingles-Only 2 more days qn INS. , Why can't· every day be a Bonus dayt . Crarnes.-.CaH you do it? · I condUit. Deme-Suzanne will be on the neXt program, .right ?-the .page turnatto · SOme people vegmQre than others. ·· Viva La Bong Fairy ! ! Lisa Klein...,Happy Birthday!- -Your roommate . JK, Get a job ~PEC'TOR, !E:VINE, MED, MOOSE, BIRI), RO':fCY -- LATER! Midterms been ke~ping you from seeing a good friend? Let SDT show you care ·by.sending _ that someone special a flo'Wergram this Friday af· ternoon in front of Carnegie. Only $1 says it. SDT': \When you care enough to send the very besH •·• • Dan ... She's the bitch and sh_e liv~s in Jersey . ' EGR . ; . You're· a truly marvelo~ musician.-choo cboo ·· wa ch'oo choo wa. .,., Cberyl and Iris . . . How· can you look so lively at 8:30 a.m .. Cbarlotte . . . How much Is a half bag of popcorn? I'm a second Tenorin(), this is my song .. . Come watch Phi Sigs run around in clrcle.s. .Cystic Fibrosis ~4.hour marathon for Cystic Fibrosis.- AroWld Library Field, Friday 5 p.m. until Saturday 5 p.rn. Y ()U haven't seen it until you'ye seen it. George: Yo~ broke your what?! Jeffrey Psi U: You'd better ·keep your nose in the air or tbe alllgator will snap it off. ' ' ''Ge,p.rg·eY Porge.y pudding and: pie · kissed the ·girl$ .and made them cry ... for more:J\ (or was it mercy?} . Mike--Why not come to class once in a· while. Pr~f'-Kaplan PIANO: Do you spend. all your: time ii1 girl's bathrooms? .. Miss ''naive'': Getting boracherized can be fun . • especially. wUh gum. _ ~ Miss•more·n~ive.thanayou SB: No mote obscene jokes- BS .-.; .' . - Ricky: Congrat-s ·on your five _cemts aardvark-Puff · . . . Janet: Thanks for always taking ~he keys out of the door-- guess·who B9: Congrats on your big weekend. Love and kisses malignant · C L: cheer up-:-thereS NO MORE GLASS TO BREAK ... EXCEPT'FOR THE BOTTLE OF -VODKA. ... YOT,JR PART- NER IN CRIME BJ: thanks for the use of Bill's Bar and Grill--complete 'Yith loud music and gwn. SKBR . Dale: I guarantee you'll be backing the winning softball team this year! College student, male, 18, from Sweden, diplomatic family, fluent in Spanish, French, English, wishes to stay with American family for one year. For more infonnation call Volunteer to help battered women, displaced homemakers and child care aid, esp. need Spanish speaking student. Call YWCA _.174-3394, Michael Jones ·Pugs ... I'll take the job, but you'll have to find a key to my chastity belt. A sweet young thing Aqd I quote ''We got· them right where we want them.\ D~!!is Potvin, bef~re the sixth Delta Chi ... Have you fo.Wld Fred yet??????? Gail. Weiner . . . and lead me not into Penn Station:PLEASE. - Just keep doing what you've · been _doing--you're better'n--- spinach for me! Love, Pam. _Prof. Yu Chang, Steinmetz 370- ·6271. PLACEMENT Bendix Corporation, Elec- trical Components Division, Sidney, New York-is seeking a Mechanical Engineer for Product Design Engin,eering, and a Mecl;lanical Engineer or · Physics Major who would be responsible for testing elec- trical connectors products, development of fixturing and test methods, reviewing · government and customer .specification. Literatnre is available in the Placement Office. Corleo Corp., Salem, N. Hampshire-has a · number of Computer and Engineering Opportunities. Check Placement for the descriptions of the positions available. Revere Copper and Brass, blc., Rome, N.Y.-has a position open for a Mechanical and Electircal Engineer. Check the Wanted: One cr-eative, devoted person who is willing to accept a good amount of responsibility. This individual will be given the position of chairperson .of the Film Committee for 1979-80. The . position requires a knowledge of and true qualifications for becoming the financial wiz on the committee. The applicant must be responsible, dedicated and willing to spend some time to insure that every aspect of the film presentation runs smoothly. This person must also be able w supervise other members as they fulfill their obligations to the committee. Creativity is a major con~ sideration and is needed in advertising endeavors. Knowledge of films both classic ..and current is also a desired quality. If you think yon are the one. who can accomplish this great task of bringing the Film Committee back to its place of honor, · please contact Cindy .. ,. ur:LUT~ a.,, I!~ ORE • OCIT • VIT • SAT Flexible Programs & Hours fJ\here IS a d•fferenceJ.t! Albal'!v Center . I ~-H • 1'63 Delawar.e Ave. IUIIPUIN' Delmar . . · . . . . EDUCATIONAL CENTEfl phone (5Ull 439-8146 .. TESTPAEP~fiAliON SPECII'LISTS SINCE 1938 Outside N.Y •. State. OnlyCALL TOLL FREE: 800-223'1782 !ll'nter, .111: ,..a lor. ~s :Cities Toronto, 'Puerto Rico and Lugano, Switzerland: · game of THE ~eries. Q. Do Vienna Fingers exist iii Schenectady? A. Not at three in the mor:-· ning. Preteau and Cro:zat . . . .Teesha tao? WE hope that you two trldy marvelous ladies have a most attractive weekend. SPAZZ! Oh well. . • . J.-I'mnotmad, and I'm sure about it: Beerbreath--Y:ou're the. only person . I don't mind oeing woken up by at 4 a.m.-Spit Q. Can a whole package· of Cameos make you: just as sick? A. Only at three in the morning. Charlotte rush!! H!!! What a RANGERFANS: TillS TIME Judy-Think Sugar l We better call Hy for reservations. Love, D. Kurt. IT'S FOR ·REAL! REMO'S ~~:: Haddad--If you ate more sugar your gam:.e would im· prove-Melvin Snurd, President of the Cane Sugar Growers Association. Nlf§.N.4£1ZB• ._., • .arfiN FORMEHAWO~ • PERMANENT WAVING • PRIVATE BOOTHS 374~7035 Judy and Jo-Ann--iiappy Almost· Birthday. With love from the ~oys of 1068. , 140 CLINTON ST. C.JUST OFF STATE ST.) SCHENECTADY, N.Y. 0 'JNION· t.OU.t.GE M AE51\AI.MNT Y« c \UI~M.< TAOT,tt.:r 1 IL'ltll• __. Dutch Ho·llow Pub 1-lOLL OW Phone (5181 310.6050 370.6051 Se~turclay N:ight Beer St•~in Speci.al Buy a bee.r stein for $3.00, and get your mug filled 'free from 9:30-12:30. Come early~-as we have a llmi.ted nu;mbe.r of steins. Pssst. JGck Daniels. f4lg.bf 11 ~om,lngl '' . . ' ' I' •. • •' ... ,- j. - . Th] As the 1 move into their scht now has < Sigma Cl hit~ing ol beat Fiji possessio! division i1 In the Beta Bo faculty te the unbea records a Sigma Ct by the Stolbof. In the downed become team in l The Hid fortable · Hounds( South, ( One an ott seasor play < KannE inexp recor domir off em and : amon then goals goals Often Neil volve the tt Ne Plairl tendt Higll bask capt; year Divi lacr< at tl tean plac, fOrtJ his gra< sure as l Nt maj clud Schl has SOcl Eur

• ·~ ' j. OONCORDIENSISJ May 10, 19\19 Page 11 This- Week In ln1ranturals ~ .:, by MIKE SCOTT and EDMARRlNAN As the mens softball leagues move into the closing stages of their schedules, each division now has an undisputed leader. Sigma Chi Blue, behind the hit~ing of John Bonaventure, heat Fiji A 12-4, .for sole possession ef first place in division in the \A\ league. In the second division, the Beta Bombers knocked the faculty team from the ranks of the unbeaten; both now have 4-1 record$ and trail the undefeated Sigma Chi Gold No. 1 team, led by the golden arm of Paul Stolbof. ~ decid·e the leadership · of Division 3. :Delta Chi, 3-l, played the Southerners, 3...(), also on Tuesday, in a bid to gain a first place tie in Division 4. In Co-R~c Softball three tearns are tied for first place. The Big Red :Machine, Phi Signla Kappa, and the Bogus Baseballers an boast 2~0 records. Umpires are reminded that they are ~esponsible for rep<Jrting the scores of their games.andare encouragedto do so promptly.· Team captains fv.om all intramural sports should check tbe standings posted on the wall in the gym and rnake sure their team re,cord is up to date. Psi, and D Phi all sport un• blemished intramural records in lacrosse. Referees are needed .for the .Sunday lax games, the job pays 2.50 an hour and those interested should sign up in the intramural office. The Co-Ree Volleyball league completed play and after the playoffs. the Math team emerged as champions. Andy Barber -and Geok Cha Gan defeated Billy Fay and Jeff Getty for the badmiton title. The,Hicks, ,led by Larry Gross and Jitn Cornwell won the swim meet by a large margin over, DU and Fiji. 'Congratulations to an the ch!=lmpions. A pinball tourney is slated today in the game room for 'those who )lave signed up. There are also sign-ups f,or the horseshoe tournament which will take place Friday, May 11. May 10- 16 Var. Baseball Vg.r. Lacrosse • ·+May 14 at Hartwick J. V. Lacrosse Var. Tennls Var. Track Varsity Golf Women's Softball May lOaf Norwich May 12 at Rochester +May 13at Hobart(2) May 12 a-t Colgate +May lOvs. Hudson Valley C.C. +May 12 vs. Binghamton May 12 New York States at Colgate. ' +May 11 vs. Middlebury · ' . +May 10 vs. New Paltz . + denotes last regular season game. - In the \B\ league, Fiji 'B downed Phi Blg Red 10..g to become the only updefeated team in the fraternity division .• The Hicks, at 6-0· have a com- .. fortable lead in Division 2. The Hounds (5-0), a~d 3r~:l·Floor Fox South, (3~), met Tuesday to Ill men's volleybati, the Sigma Chi Blue team led by Frank Murphy arid K.R. Marshall hold first place with a :3:0· record. The Critters, led by Mar~ Kolnick and Mark Pollock , are tied with the Sigma Chi team led 'bY the inspired play of Jobn K.rum for the frisbee league leadership. Psi U, Chi Laxwomen End Season Union Book '79 ALL CAMPUS ·PHOTO · Tuesday,·Mav 15th. (Raindate--Thur;s<lay, May 17th) West Law'n 1 P.M. Be There! Get your yearbooks now! Seniors-$5 Others-$8 by MELISSA CRAGIN This past week the Union Women's Lacrosse team ended their season on an upswing with a tie and a win. Their season ended with a record. of 1-7-1. On Monday, the team com- pleted their season with a tie against WiUiams College .. The Varsity team, down 5-3 at the end of the first period, came back in the second half with seven goals to tieWilliams at 10- 10. The final goal was put in by Center Barb Kaul, her second, close to the last minute of play. Charlotte Thomas, third home, and Sheryl Katz, left attack wing, both scored hat tricks, respectively in the first and secnnd halves. Last Saturday, the Varsity and J.V. squads combined to • , play a match against the Mohawk As~ociation Team. After a fun exhibition put on for Parents' Weekend, however, Mohawk pulled ahead to win by one, 7~- The team's only win of the season came last Friday at the . Emma_ Willard School against Russel Sage. After a slow first half of the Varsity game, the score was tied ·at 4-4. In the second half the Union women put ev'erything together to come up with a 10--5 win. !)In the second half, goalie Judy Haddad allowed only one goal into her cage. Freshmen Liz Garcia, in at first home, and ·Sheryl Katz dominated the scoring ii1 this half with two goals a piece. This gave Katz a hat trick. The Junior Varsity team also won their game against .Sage, 11-5. The J .. V was very solid and played an exciting and tough match. Eight different players scored throughout the game, and Mary Beth Burnett, .Liz Garcia, and Nancy COlt each scored two goals. Bathania Shakrt, playing in the goal for her second time played an . outstanding match against· · Sage's presistant J .V. defense. Following Monday's match, Coach Marty Morrison had ,this to say: ''The team has im· proved immeasurably, they ended the season much better than they began. They're playing good lacrosse, the kind of game I want them to play.\ Next year they will be working toward a strong, united, and winning season. / --ATHLETES OF THE WEEK-- , . .. .. . Neil Kanner One of the few bright spots in an otherwise blustery lacrosse season has been the outstanding play of junior attackman Neil Kanner. On a team racked with inexperience and a losing record, Neil has been the · dominating force in the Union offense,, thus Ear netting 33 goals and 21 assists, placing . hlm among the top twenty scorers in the nation. Neil has scored 7 goals in a game once this year, li ' goals twice, and 5 goals once. Often double and triple-teamed, Neil has nonetheless been in- volved in over sixty percent .of the teams' scoring. position on t'he Board of Ser- vices Committee. Neil is a brother of the Delta Phi Fraternity. This past week Neil scored three goals and three assists ip, a victory over Hamilton, and netted seven goals and two assists in a · close loss t() Williams, all the while displaying great hustle and a disregard for punishment. For . these accorQplishments he is honored as co-athlete of the week. Way to ~o BO!! 1: _g Neil Kanner hails from Plainview, NY, where he at- tended Plainview-Old Bethpage High. A standout in both basketball and lacrosse, he captained both t-eams his seni()r Year and was honored as AU Division North Shore in lacrosse. Neils' freshmen year at Union he. was tbird on the team in scoring and last year.b.e placed second in scori}lg wttl! forty 1points,. surpassed only by his brother Jed, since graduated. This rear Neil will sureiy lead the team in scoring as Well· as being a tri-captain. j Due to their out- standing performances this week, we feel tlfat both Neil Kanner and 1 Wayne Riker deserve recognition for their respective· athletic ex- ploits. Hence, this week we have not one, but two ATHLETES OF THE WEEK. Neil is a blo-engineerfng, -l major wbf1se future plans ill· l elude ·dental scb.ool. · A No1t . o Scholar his .fresbmen year, Neil l bas participated in the schools~ SOCialized medicine program in Eur()pe and currently holds a Junior Laxman Nell Kanner Wayne Riker Wayne Riker is a junior majoring in Civil. engineering and industrial economics. He hails from Mountain Lakes, New Jersey, where he was a 3- letter man, playing 3 full years of football, basketball, and baseball. He is president of Union's chapter of Psi Upsilon. In his first two years on campus, Riker showed limited interest in sports, playing only sparingly in rugby gaines. To Union's advantage, he has managed to find the time to play . '' \ .. - .. iliit fl tW!' ~ .... ~ ~'IIIIJ'I~ii'l¥H!t ;JJi ~ ~, •. Junior Pitcher Wayne Rlk~r baseball this year. As spring training began, Riker seemed to be \just another pitcher.\ But as the season has progressed, it has become apparent that he has evolved as one of Union's premier starters. Asked about his nwnber 2 starter, Coach Dick Sakala stated that \Wayne has a variety o~ offspeed pitches. He puts the ball where he wants to put it-and that's the whole secret of pitching.\ Riker's record this year stands at 2-1. In his first a[i- pearance he defeated a powerful. Siena squad 7-6-but the score is not indicitive of his superlative mound .per- - fonnance, fc;~r all of Siena's runs were unearned. Riker .suffered his first loss of the year against nationally ranked and awesome LeMoyne, 7.0. Again, the score is not in- dicative of his performance, for but 5 of Le Moyne's rllilS· were earned. This week,· Riker's pitcliing blossomed against Middlebury .. Pitching in the second game of an afternoon doubleheader, he sent batter after batter back to the dugout muttering un· mentionables. In the 2nd inning, Riker .~xperienced his only control difficulties-walking 2 and loading the ~es ...vith one Continued «JD page 12

Page 12 CONCOR.J!HENSIS, May 10, 1979 6port5 Baseball Ups Record by RICH HOPE Rain cancelled the game against Siena at Bleake: F_ield last Thursday after four mmngs of play, but the Dutchmen came home Saturday to sweep a ·double header against Mid• dlebury, and then defeat Albany State, to up their record to 8-7. Both games vs. Middlebury were one run contests with Union winning the first game 2·1 and shutting out Middlebury 1-0 in the night cap. walked, went to second on a fielders choice and was singled home by Chris Massaroni. Massaroni'S single was Union's only hit, but it proved to be all they needed with Riker's pit- ching performance. Union hosted Albany on Tuesday, revenging a prier defeat by bombing State 9-1. Joe Lavery went the distance for his first win. Chris Massaroni's two run double led Union's hitters. Union's record now stands at 8- 7. positive outlook for the team's. remaining 7 games. \l'}J:~ team has a solid state of mind after the pair of wins over Mid- dlebnty. With Sienna and Le Mo.yne out of the way we have the ability to beat the rest of the teams on out schedule. We have all out players playing where they should-be uow.\ Sakala says he enjoys coacbing the team and is grateful for the help received from assistant coach B.ob Driscoll and former Coach Art· Lawrence. \Lawrence has a wealth of knowledge of the game and he is always offering his time and energy.\ I. Glen Kinns pitched a three hitter in the opener to up his record ·to ~-2. Union scored its winning run in the fifth when Dan Thompson walked, stole second, and was knocked home by Dave Adsit's single. Kinns struck out 7, including-3-m the top of the last with bases loaded. In the nightcap, Wayne Riker (2-1) pitched the first Union shutout since 1975 by allowing only three bits and striking out 6. Union scored its ohly run in the first when Mark Decker After 10 games, Paul Waldick is leading Union hitters with a .414 average, 12 hits and 8 REI's. Trace Anderson has the Dutchmens only homerun. Ron I...evine leads the team in runs scored with 16. Union is getting excellent glove work from the left side of its infield in third baseman Kevin Frederick and shortstop AI Delibero. Fresh- man Glen Kinns leads the teams pitcher's with a 4-2 record. Union is away this we~k ~ playing today at Warwic~, ; Saturday at Rochester, and thts If . Sunday, a doubleh~ader at Hobart. Frosh pitching sensation G.len K.inns Coach Dick Sakala has a Lacrosse. Splits Pair Tennis At 4-4 by TIM SULLIVAN Union College Lacrosse saw itself engaged in two very ex- citing contests this past week. Last Saturday an enthusiastic Parents Weekend crowd saw tl1e Dutchmen defeat Hamilton College by a score of 7-5. This past Tuesday Williams College · encountered a fired up Dut- chmen squad and struggled to a hard-fought 15-13 victory. Both of these games were played on Alexander Field, a far cry from the fairways of Augusta, Ga., but a sfgnificant .improvement over Daley Field. ·Sherman. In the second half standout Kanner toolt the bull by the tail and faced· the situation, netting all three· Union goals. One gf his tall!es came on an almost impossible turn around angle shot from the left side which put Union in the lead for good at ~- Alan Greenberg w~s credited with top by 3·2. Knapp then initiated a fast break which led to a Greg Stiner goal via passes . by Kanner and Wright. Kanner's . fourth .goal of the.half preceded three consecutive scores for Williams, knotting the score at 5-5. Goals by Kanner and Wright for Union and Em Tee of Williams gave Union a 7-6 halftime lead. Bill Wade of Union scored on an assist from Kanner midway thru the third, making it 9-8. Williams then tied it up and went ahead on a goal by Rod Damen. The . ~core stretched out to 13·9 Wtlhams before Kanner found the goalmouth at 9:47 .of the fourth. Union pulled to within one goal of Williams when Rich Romer quicksticked a Rob Shennan pass by the goe;tlie. Soon after, Union commited a double penalty and, playing two men up, . Wffiiarns scored tne final goal which gave ·the~ a 15-13 _victory. This past week the Union College Tennis Team evened it's record at 4-4. The~..,.week featured an away victory against archprival RPI, a home loss to pwerful Colgate, and another away victory against Hartwick. Against RPI, the netmen destroyed. Only the second singles player bit the dust, as aU other singles and doubles players were victorious. Heading the list was number one singles man, Roy Lipson, who defeated a talented op- ponent rather easily 6-0, 6-1. Other winners were: at No. 3, Jeff Cohen, 6-1; 6-3; at No. 4, Doug Burns, 6-1, 6-0; at No. 5, Rolfe Lipton (captain); 6-2, 6-0; and at No. 6, Gary Turer, 6-1,. 6- 3. All doubles teams won: the final score stood Union 8, RPI 1. Back home against ever powerful Colgate, the Dut- chmen were not as successful. The lone victor for the netmen was No. 4 singles man Doug Burns. who defeated Joe Heath, 7-6, 6~. Number one singles player, Roy Lipson, epitimized the play of the team, as he lost · in a grueling struggle to a top notch contender, 7-6, 6-4. The final: Colgate 8, Union 1. With their record standing at 3-4, the Dutchmen strove to hit the .500 mark playing Hartwick. They succeeded and notched'\' their fourth victory of the year. Again, No. 1 singles man, R~y Lipson, proved too strong forh1s opponent, winning 6-2., 6-4. Other winners included Doug Burns, 6pl, 7-5; Rolfe Lipton, 7- 5, 6-3; and· Barry Rosenberg 6..:2, 7-5. In doubles, the team of Lipson•Cohn won another, 6-1, 6· 4. All told, Union won, 7-2. The team has its final match on this coming Saturday, May 12, versus Binghamton, at 1:00 p.m. Attendance is man- datory! ! ! Come on out and support your team! ! Against Hamilton Rich :Romer scored two minutes into the game on.an assist from Neil Kanner to give the Dutchinen a l..U lead. The two teams then alternately scored three goals Each Union taking a 4-3 half~ time' lead. Freshman Jim Wright scored two goals on assists from fellow attackman Neil Kanner, giving him three assists for the half. Rich Romer scored his second goal of the day on a'n assist from Rob -thirteen saves on the day, many of them coming on one-on-one situations. Again, the final score was 7-5. Ruggers Trounce RPI- Williams was in town on Tuesday, looking for its' 26th consecutive lacrosse victory over Union. In the imported 85F (29C) weather it was obvious to all that Union was psyched to put together its first back to back wins of the season, and they played a very inpired first half. Neil Kanner began what would he an outstanding day for him as he scored the games first goal at 13:43 of the first. Williams then responded ·with two ·goals by Peter Thomsen. Kanner scored his second goal at 1:10 on an assist from Greg Steiner, the play being initiated on a solid check by Paul \the Mauler'' Knapp. Most im· pressive for Union was . their spirit and hust~e, necessitated by a slight disadvantage in talent. In the game Neil Kanner took 15 shots for seven goals and two assists, upping :his season total to 33 and 21. respectively. Jim Wright and . Rich Romer, Union's other leading scorers, contributed with 2-3 and 2-0 respectively. Alan Greenberg stopped fifteen shots . for . the Dutchmen, while Barney Miller and Paul Knapp each. scooped up six _loose balls. Union's record presently stands at 3-8. by TONY WARD In front of the largest crowd Union ruggers have played to ill a few seasons a psyched U-Coll. Rugby squad rolled all over the incipient and inexperienced R.P .I. team. . The first score came quite early as veteran rugger Marty White exploded with three consecutive runs, one of which carried him over the goal line for his first score of the season. With these initial points on the scoreboard Union was off and running, dominating easily ~oth in the serum and in the line .• Although the extra point ki(!k was missed Union quickJy followed with two more \tries\ before the first half was over; the first of these was scored by Mark Snapper and the second by Jeff Heisler, both ,demon- strating headswup playmg, At the end of the first it. was the Dutchmen over the Engineers, 12-0. The second half was very much like the first., with Union controlling an~ . continually gaining ground. Dave \ZUk'~ Zuckerbraun reopened the scoring for Uniqn with an im• pressive score. This was shortly followed by co-captain Chip Fenn's \try\ which upped Union's lead to an awesome shutout score ,of 22-0. The last two points were scored off the · foot of, once again, Pave Zuckerbraun, with the extra points attempt, giving him a total of six points to~al .for the game. The second game of the day, that traditional yearly matcll against the alumnas, was to be a very tough contest and qUite frustrating for the Union B· squad, The Alumni squad easily dominated and over-ran the Union ruggers; final score of. that match was 14..0. It was a good day for shUt-outs. 'The team would like to extend special thanks to all the parents who came out to lend support. It would also like to invite all out this weekend to drink free beers and to support it in it's masochiStic drive for further victories. This Saturday the ruggers host the big Al~any State team on Library field at 2:00 P.M. See you there. Athlete of the Week .. • • C~ntlnued frem page 11 · out. He struggled out of the inning and eventually wenton to shut out his adversaries 1..()-a feat which last occured way back on May 6, 1975 when Union blanked Hamilton 18-f). two and striking out. 6 .. Mid· dlebury could mllSter up but 3 . scattered hits. Kanner's third goal at 12:16 of the second put Union back on For his strong pitching performance versus Mid· dlebury, Wayne Riker truly In the game, Riker had im- deserves honorable mention. as n.' tt>Ccable C. 0. ntrol; WJtlkin. ~d . . · \tJ.t.' .• co-.1\ '.f,ijW'i$ OF ~ ~E~. . 0 •• ' .f'Jol' _fD !:\ 3f.!fj5\1q~ J ·H t~ h.H·H ·w.ttJ!: Junior star Paul Knapp ln action. ·o ~ Vol. · M byD \A p vironmE and gt« main tal College. portant, tracting who h~ and for• high.qu admin:i under t furthei problel main tel College Draftin Campt de:rtoo~ maint( operati The the D Generc: releasE week, i States submi collegE credit< first d report proble maint propm the pr exerte mitte· Profe~ Profe Eng it Scien Harle EngiiJ Chair COOS\ As soc MaQi Assi~ Instit and~ Mills and Proft Depa Oper We theE Lity1 \Uni and1 enta \am maj1 havE det~ defE rep; is c1 mai req· colli bee

1 l 3 ) 1 1 :, I) g e r d s ~- Founded al Union College 1877 Vol. 1 ila, No. 22 Sche.nectady., N.Y._ _ Thursday, May 17, 1979 Maintenance Examined bY DOUG ROSENFELD ranked by their priorities relative to each other. Accor- \ A pleasnat campus en- ding to the \Maintenance vironment, inchtding buildings .Planning Progress ReportP and grounds, . is essential to (Jan. 8, 1979), ·in setting the maintain the character of Union priorities for projects, · College·. The campus is im- \Fiicilitles containing the portant, in particular, for at· greatest number of people for tracting high.,quality studeots Jhe longest periods of time were who have other alternatives, weighted heavily,\ and and for attracting and holding a \judgments. we-re a: so made on high .quality facUlty, staff; and the extent of need.'' adminiStration.'' Work-ing·' The second phase of the uncler this assumption and the · \Maintenance and Operation further assumption !'tnat Plan,'' the \concept phase,'' problems existed in the E:!ltails the outlining of \a maintenance operation of Union strategy to complete all items · College,\ the Middle States which 'have been deferred.\ The Drafting Com:mittee on General Physical Plant ·Department is Campus Maintenance un- presenting .these proposals for dettook its examination of the projects to the Board of maintenance · needs and Trustees \on a piecemeal basis operation of the College. as (they are) developed,., and The Preliminary Report . of the assignment of priorities to the Drafting Committee on . these projects is at the General Campus Maintenance, discretion ·Of the Board. Among released to the carnpu_s last the projects i~ \a project to week, is. the third of the Middle restore lawns damaged by States r~PQrts thl;lt have been motor vehicles,\ the restoration submitted~ thus far in the · of Nott Memorial, and the college!s drive towards reac• repairing Of the athletic fields. creditation. The fifteen-page \Tiie ,committee believes that first draft of the maintenance top priority projects should be report illuminates some of tlle done inunediately to prevent problems inberept in lJColl's further deterioration and an maintenance program . and even more costly 'eaten-up' proposes some solutions. It. i.S . program,\ the product of months of effort Housekeeping Progra~ . . . exerted_ by each of the com· . In mid'-Decem~r, 1978, the mittee's - six members: Sarat~ga Associates, tmder Professor Clarence Goodheart, contract to the college, in· Professor of Electrlcal vestigated the personnel aspect Engineering and Computer o~ Union's physical plant Science; Professor GUber.t department . which has been Harlow, Professor of Civil known as the Housek~eping . Engineering and Department Program. Their recom- Chairman; Mr. Jack Litynski, a mendations, as summarized in consurt~nt with Saratoga the Mtddle States Preliminary Associates; Professor Joseph Maintenance Report, are as Maciariello, Professor and follows: Assistant Director · of the 1.) Reor.ganb:aUon aild Institution of Adininistration ' reassignment of current staff to and Management; Mr. Richard accomplish the basic workload Mills, Director of Maintenance · and Physica~ Plant; and Professor Frank Titus of the Department of .Physics. Operation Plan Working in conjunction with the Board of Trustees, Mills and Litynski have developed the \Union College Maintenance and Operation Plan.'' This plan entails · several phases. The \analysis phase,\ wherein \all major facilities of the college have been reviewed and a detailed 'inventory' of all deferred items (postponed repairs) has been assembled,'' is currently in progress. \The maintenance and repair requirements of 25 major college facilities\ which have been inspected have been Runoffs Last Ttlesday morning and afternoon numerous members of the Union student body were seen entering and exiting from. three voting booths situated just outside Carnegie Hall. The occasion was the annual student elections held each spring. By · day's end, between nine hundred and one thousand students had registered their, votes for fellow students contending for seven of the eight (there were no can- didates· for Forum secretaFy) available positions. After all the votes had been ' Speakers i=llrum pr-esents David Frost, May 23 · 2.!) Separation. of the groUilds· transportation functions from housek,.~~pblg. Creatlov. of a snperlntenden.t position-for each of tb.ese :fmctions. 3.) Addition of a 'heavy dqty' team, composd initially of one ; janitor and increaslnJ!: w two ~ janitors to perform floor ~ maintenance and clean-up ~ter ';. special events. ~ 4.) Reinforce and S\lpport the ~ role ·Of the .Sllpervl.$ors o f Q 5,.) Developmeat o super- a; Coatillued on .page 8 'Z:.I!J I 111 J ~- PrOVC?St Huntl.ey Dean Proposes Changes by STEVE GRILL Dean of Students Kellett bas recently lUldertaken a study and produced a ,paper entitled \Organization and Staffing of Student Affairs 1979-80.\ The reasons f-or this study, as ex- pressed inthe report, are 1 )-that in recent years there have been modiUcati<>-ns of the ad- minist·rative structure of Stlldent Affairs and thiS has led to a redllction .in, both the staff and resources; and 2) many of the Student Affairs Offiees ·are physically separated ftQ'Q! . others, and thus.---the com .. munication between offic~s hw; not been as goo-d as it could be~ The study has been.underway since September 1978 and has included disciiSsions with staff of the College_, discussions with the .governance and other drafting committees, use of questionnaires, and a review of costs •. The report indicates nine areas where the suggested organization improves services services and communications: 1 ). Providing students with allditional professional assistance in .residential units in areas of program development (social-recreational-governa- nce) and counseling (situational and adjustment). Also, to provide additional support for Resident Advisors dealing with interpersonal conflicts, conduct problems, and maintenance problems. 2) Providing additional assistance to fraternlties- 5ororities and the · IFC relative to programs and facilities. 3) Providing. support and .leadershjp for the development of women's programming, particularly in. areas of life- planning and identity. 4) Providing additional staffing to meet workload requirements in the Counseling Center and Career Resources- Placement. 5) Increasing accessibility .of assessment-diagrtostic health services, and reducing costs of health service delivery. · 6) Increasing quality of West College Food Service and H·eld Today tabulated, follF outright winners were determined. They are . Dave O'Connor (vice president), Bill Meehan and Vern Wetmore (junior representative) and Will Lloyd (sophomore representative). R.Untiffs were deemed necessary in order to decide the remaining three positions. .The second ballot voting is taking .place today. . · · In.the race for junior trustee, Joe Cardapy and Ed Lonergan were virtually inseparable, Cardany receiving just twelve more votes than Lonergan on the initial ballot. Cardany's 35 per cent and Lonergan's 34 per cent. placed them in today's runoff. Bruce Kaplan finished third, collectfug 21 per cenf of the votes. Bill Barnett received the remaining ten per cent. The presidential battle also resulted in an extremely close two-way race. eurrent jliiiior · represen.tative ken Plumb gamed 48 percent of the vote as opposed to 42 per cent for Mike Bacco. As rneither of these candidates rec.eived a majority, a nmoff became necessa.ry to determine Steve Ric)lards' successor. The third candiate, Wayne Tunick, _gathered the final 'ten per cent. Sophomore O'Connor, by taking 56 per cent of the vote, will now make the changeover .from his current role as sophomore representative to that of vice president of the Student Forum. His opposition came mainly from junior Patti ·Chaifetz who collected 35 per cent of-the vote: Mike \DeJesus received nine per cent. Meehan, a loser~ last year's race for sophomore representative, and Wetmore, a newcomer to political life at Union, were victorious in the race for junior representative by garnering 42 per cent and 35 per cent of the ballots cast, respectively. They both out- polled Marica Hepford who gathered the remaining 23 per cent. Finally, Lloyd won the sophomore representative election by taking a solid 32 per cent of the vote. The second open . position was hotly con· tested and will be decided in a runoff today between Betsy Modest (25per cent) and Robert Feinberg (24 .per cent). Only three votes separated these two candidates. Claire Burchill received the other 18 .per cent. If you have not as yet voted in today•s runoff do so now it is your chance to help determine next year's student leaders. The voting booths will be open until 6:00 p.m. · .. reducing size of meai plan !rice increases.· · · ·7) Specifically identifying responsibilities for adVisement- assistance to Student Govern- ment and - Student Organizations. 8) Reallocating ad- ~inistrative responsibility within the Dean's office to in- crease student. accessibility. 9) Reloeating offices to spaces where student traffic is appropriate and maximum staff interaction-collaboration can occur. · Th&-specifie actions which the reports ,suggests are: · 1) Two additional positions in Re$idence Life (from personnel savings in Health Services) . with responsibilities for women's affairs, fraternity affairs, as well as counseling and program development will be created. These live-in positions (Richmond and Davidson) will report to the Director .of Residence Life. and will be titled Residence Program Coordinators. Qualifications include a minimum of a master's degree in counseling and-or student personnel administration. 2) Dean of.Students Office and Residence Life Office will be moved to Carnegie Hall. The Counseling Center will move to _ Old Gym Hall. .. 3) The current contract with . CHP (College Health Per~ sonnel) for physician coverage will be replaced by part·time college physician(s) and physician extenders (physician assistant, nurse-practitioner). This will, among other things, increase hours when diagnostic- prescriPtive services are available. 4) A SUNYA intern (Coun· seling Psychology and Student Development Program) will be employed to eKpand staffinr; n Counseling (60 percent) and Career Resources-\Placement ( 40 percent). ~ 5) Student Development, Student Activities. and the Dean of Students Office will be co· locatecl and responsibilities clearly defined. 7) The nwnber of depart- ments Will be reduced to ens\ll\e that temporary absences- vacancies do not have an im· pact on availability of services. The remaining departments will be a) Student Affairs, b) Residence Life, c) Food Ser· vices, d) Health Services, e) Counseling, f) Career Resources-Placement. In addition, Dean Kellett indicated that \under con- Continued on page 9

. l I . )' f . .~ Page 2 _....._,.. ______________ ....,o_._o..,..N_O_O_R_D __ · :_IE_,_N_S.,..IS...;,.,..--M ..... a~y~.t_\'..; ..... _9 ..... 1;,...._.....,_...,._..,..,... ........ --.. ........ --~----------- Editorials ''OH the Record\ Among the criticisms levelled against tne content of Oonoordie'fiSis are its all~ged 'shallow' reporting, I?isrepresentations of views, and tendency to report· not-so-new news. While all of these criticisms are true to varying extents, they may not all be dlsrnissed, as they frequently are, wholly as the misgivings of an unprofessional or incompetent staff. Although the quality of Concordy's content is subject to the constraJnt of itS staff's ability, it is up against an additional, equally serious (or, perhaps, even more serious) limitation: the somewhat less- than-ideal lever of faculty and staff cooperation. Concordy interviews are freqUently put off by their interviewees who are afraid ·of being misquote«;; and misrepresented, or pf having their real views published. Wb,en petenUally controversial in· formation i~ :revealed during' an interview, it is frequently labelled as • 'off tlre record'' by the speaker. It is sometim~s Q.ifficult for the interviewer to decide whether it is worst to be told nothing or to be told all under the ~agreemel:lt that nothing Will be printed. As outgrowths of such overt - un- cooperativ:eness and reserved cooperation stand what are known as 'shallow' reporting and the danger of misrepresenting views that nave been so inexpli:citly expressed. The Ooncordy reporter is further limited by a prevailing attitude in the upper echeldn of the campus that students should either not know about some things at all or that they should receive notification after the faculty and staff. This hindrance proves to be an incessant irritation to Ooncordie.n8is; it is the th-orn in our paw which causes us to arrive on the scene of the news later than we ordinarily would have · or should have. It is neither pleasant for us nor con- structive to the College that we print news stories which, already days eld, have been printed and cir- culated among tbe campus' faculty and staff. Moreover, the editors deem it an affront to the student body .that news should reach it last: The students should not be treated as second or third dass citizens here and, in this instance at least, it is clear that they are treated as such. Concordiensis would like to go on the record to say that it is disgusted with its \off the record\ interviews. .. , Don't Care':' The Union College student body is suffering from a pervasive and divisive apathy which is threatening the future of student organizations on campus. This prevalent unconcern is reflected in the ·structural mismanagement of some groups, the lack of responsibility on the part of the membership, and a general unwillingness to be involved. Students who have the ultimate responsibility too often do not exercise the auth(,f'ity which goes along with their position leaving the burden of work with themselves. The members of student groups often do not respond to this authority, or to their own com- mitment, further frustrating the responsible par- ticipants. The most puzzling problem is the obvious disin· terest of a large segment of the student body. Many students feel pressured by the amount of course work whi-ch is required of them. Whether this. pressure is genuine or self-imposed should not preclude arty student from extra-curricular particip;:IJion. These activities can be as essential to the development and maturity of the student as course work The incessant phrase, \I don't have the time,\ is no longer ac- ceptable to those .of us who are able to find the time to participate. Perhaps those who rely on this statement for secuurity would have more time if they stopped talking to one another in the library. · We realize that the blame does not lie solely with the students, as the faculty and administration rnust be responsible in such a destructive situation. The faculty advising system is somewhat inadequate outside of making course recommendations. tn.,... situations where there is an overabundant amount of work assigned, faculty rnern·bers may think that the students have nothing better to do. Finally, there is the \who cares\ attitude of some of the faculty which is carried over into the~classroom, and does affe.ct the students. The administration does not seem to know about this situation, nor do they seem to care. There is no one, currently, who the students can approach regarding a problem in a student organization. The Dean of Students must take the initiative and find out what is on the minds of the students in relation to their outside activities; Many club officers believe that the Dean has been quite lax about this. For the future the student organizations are going to need guidance .necessary to their own survivat If it does not come from the administration, then maybe we shoUld revert to a faculty advising .system. The few students who are now deeply committed t(l the student OI'ganizations cannot sustain the amount of energy needed to support the clubs and the com- mittees, and still derive pleasure from them. . Words,Words,Words by AARON FEINSOT available option \he wrote\ or· infer for imply, An inference Is \ \be is th'e author of\. However, a deduction. You Jiterally take As I was filling out an ap· in another case, \he contacted out a meaning from something .plication. recently for a new me seems . much more ac- written or spoken. ''I iQfer fr.9m account at a major New York ceptable since it shortens the this memo that\... You are bank, I was startled to find a alternative of \he got in touch deriving something from line that read \Principle Pl'ace withme\. Notli}~ can be verb.ed, something· else. An implication of Busines·s.\ Having been but don't overdodt. is a suggestion. merely a hint. .influenced with the difference Then again there is one of my ''I implied that at 4:45 p~m. betwe.en le and al by a seventh favorite examples of linguistic people .are alreaqy out · the grade teacher, l shot offaletter misuse. ''This gr.oqp of data· is. door''. You suggested that to hi:tn stating \in principle the different from that group.\ Too something happens at a par- line should read principal place often one hears ot sees this as ticular time; To infer therefore· ,of business.\ Since the Con- stated different than. Consider has more of a· substantial base cordy made this same error in differentiating one thing or of reasoning .. That. at least, is the last issue; it reinforces mw person .from the other, and what we imply .• feeling that. sorne of the basic- reserve thau .for more or less ~ 'one otlier stytisti:c note: ''Is tools of communication. are than something. Of course there everything alright?''- No it is misunderstood, inappropriately are some exceptions, but these not. It should re.ad \is used, and reflect pOorly on the differ from the rule and, they ate everything all right\ Com- communicator. Thus a short fewer thao, you think. l:>ining wordS bas taken on lesson on s()me typical issues in Here a.;e some additional correctness ()Ut of usage and the American language. words tbat get mauled in their clarity. Stay away from alright. Take a verbal ag.reeQien.t for usage. Flaunt and' .fiout are Short is not sweet. But you Will instance; is i,t written. or sometimes smothered in quickly agreetbat you can write spoken~ In point of fact, verbal pronunciation and .are \this matter cannot be settled can be used for either since it frequently misapplied one for taday.\ Cannot calls for> the meart.s in the form of words. theother. To flaunt is to make a contracted wore instead of can However, when we have such an bOastful display such as, ''by not. All right? explicit word as Qi'al, why not be the size ()f the letters ·On the door Let us ·· now lay to · rest specific, and reserve verbalfor he flaunted his position\. To pr-oblems with lie, lay, and laid. generalities or written ex- .flout ·on the other hand is to Think oflay as putting al} obj.ect pres~ion? treat with contempt. ''He somewhere, whereas lie means American lang,uage usage is flouted company 'procedures tecline. That's simple enough. frequently a matter of current regul'atly.!-'-, is· arr example-. Eieceptthatthe past tense oflay Style but some styies· are more When you learn the difference is laid, and the ·past of lie is l~y. grating than others. The use of you mig.bt flaunt your Confused? Practice this: \I an1 nom1s for verbs is one example knowledge and Rout pMrly used going to lay down a rule; . I laid of usage sometimes abusing the English. down the' rule\ (lay, laid .... to ear or eye: He authored this Perhaps one of the most put). \I am notgoingto lie down report can lead to. a negative common of errors, and one that.· on the job; .l did not lay down on response an the part of some displays a lack of sophistication the job\ (lie, lay - 'recline). receiver of this communication. on the part of the user is Now let's let (not leave) In such a case why not use· the · ·of the . word dogs lie. ~~~~ Fines TO: The Director of Residence Life FROM: the Members of Second Floor West College Dormitory RE: Student Fines In regard to the bills sent to the members of Second Floor West on April27, 1979 regarding damages to the fixtures, win· dows, fire extinguishers and smoke detectors mentioned in the memo of~ April 25, 1979; payment of said fines is being withheld. We cite the Preliminary Report of the Drafting Com· mittee on General Campus Maintenance of Aprill979 which in part stat~s: . the Dean of :stu•ctenlts Office, F. Y .I. The policy is legal, was published and will be cQntinued. This should resolve the matter. Respectfully, Davi-d L. Wood Director of Residence Life .- Marathon . t S;uccess Behind the combined efforts Defense o~ the bro~hers, pledges, Littte. · · ·· . · · SiSterst and -rnends of Phi Sigma Kappa, the fr.aternity's In response to Mr. Wood's first annual. marathon run for letter of May lith, we have cystic fibrosis was a treruen- several additional points to · dous ..success. c The marathon make. 1) The advice of the began on the evening of Friday, attorney contacted by Mr. Wood May 11 and continued for 24 is deemed inadmissable due to hours. Rob Penney. the the faet that a partner in the law chairman of the event, ran the firm, retained by the college, is first of 426 laps around the half a trustee of tbe college. 2) '!\he mile course encircling the expert legal sources that we center of campus. Twentywfour have consulted have advised us hours later Ed Scholl completed to continue withholding the/420th lap. na1nnient and pursue the matter . Throughout the entire event. bll The Ctrrrtm Frida~ Fresh option numb advisi Prece The discu~ the ·Pre~~ in clue (an ill year) fo-r co-urs byPr to e11 outlir: supp' cours pre.p matE aUoc. speal year lilllOl Th an ir expe .fresl Pre' fron: wet~ exp;: tori~ Pl men con< be 1 askt cost arri re.s] forr c b v ·a c a 1: { ' t J

Page 2 OONOORDIENSIS, May 17, 19\19 Editorials \Ofl the Record 11 Among the criticisms levelled against the content of Ooncordiensis are its alleged 'shallow' reporting, misrepresentations of views, and tendency to report not-so-new news. While all of these criticisms are true to varying extents, they may not all be dismissed, as they frequently are, wholly as the misgivings of an unprofessional or incompetent staff. Although the quality of Ooncordy's content is subject to the constraint of its staff's ability, it is up against an additional, equally serious (or, perhaps, even more serious) limitation: the somewhat less- than-ideal level of faculty and staff cooperation. Concordy interviews are frequently put off by their interviewees who are afraid of being misquoted and misrepresented, or of having their real views published. When potentially controversial in- formation is revealed during an interview, it is frequently labelled as \off the record\ by the speaker. It is sometimes difficult for the interviewer to decide whether it is worst to be told nothing or to be told all under the agreement that nothing will be printed. As outgrowths of such overt un- cooperativeness and reserved cooperation stand what are known as 'shallow' reporting and the danger of misrepresenting views that have been so inexplicitly expressed. The Ooncordy reporter is further limited by a prevailing attitude in the upper echelon of the campus that students should either not know about some things at all or that they should receive notification after the faculty and staff. This hindrance proves to be an incessant irritation to Concordiensis; it is the thorn in our paw which causes us to arrive on the scene of the news later than we ordinarily would have or should have. It is neither pleasant for us nor con- structive to the College that we print news stories which, already days old, have been printed and cir· culated among the campus' faculty and staff. Moreover, the editors deem it an affront to the student body that news should reach it last. The students should not be treated as second or third class citizens here and, in this instance at least, it is clear that they are treated as such. Concordiensis would like to go on the record to say that it is disgusted with its \off the record\ interviews. \I Don't Care,. The Union College student body is suffering from a pervasive and divisive apathy which is threatening the future of student organizations on campus. This prevalent unconcern is reflected in the structural mismanagement of some groups, the lack of responsibility on the part of the membership, and a general unwillingness to be involved. Students who have the ultimate responsibility too often do not exercise the auth(•rity which goes along with their position leaving the burden of work with themselves. The members of student groups often do not respond to this authority, or to their own com· mitment, further frustrating the responsible par- ticipants. The most puzzling problem is the obvious disin- terest of a large segment of the student body. Many students feel pressured by the amount of course work which is required of them. Whether this pressure is genuine or self-imposed should not preclude any student from extra-curricular participation. These activities can be as essential to the development and maturity 'of the student as course work. The incessant phrase, \I don't have the time,\ is no longer ac- ceptable to those of us who are able to find the time to participate. Perhaps those who rely on this statement for secuurity would have more time if they stopped talking to one another in the library. We realize that the blame does not lie solely with the students, as the faculty and administration must be responsible in such a destructive situation. The faculty advising system is somewhat inadequate outside of making course recommendations. In situations where there is art overabundant amount of work assigned, faculty members may think that the students have nothing better to do. Finally, there is the ''who cares'' attitude of some of the faculty which is carried over into the classroom, and does affect the students. The administration does not seem to know about this situation, nor do they seem to care. There is no one, currently, who the students can approach regarding a problem in a student organization. The Dean of Students must take the initiative and find out what is on the minds of the students in relation to their outside activities. Many club officers believe that the Dean has been quite lax about this. For the futur~ the student organizations are going to need guidance necessary to their own survival. If it does not come from the administration, then maybe we should revert to a faculty advising system. The few students who are now deeply committed to the student organizations cannot sustain the amount of energy needed to support the clubs and the com- mittees, and still derive pleasure from them. Words, Words, Words by AARON FEINSOT As I was filling out an ap- plication recently for a new account at a majer New York bank, I was startled to find a line that read \Principle Place of Business.\ Having been influenced with the difference between le and al by a seventh grade teacher, I shot off a letter to him stating \in principle the line should read principal place of business.\ Since the Con- cordy made this same error in the last issue, it reinforces my feeling that some of the basic. tools of comm.uHication are misunderstood, inappropriately used, and reflect poorly OH the communicator. Thus a short lesson on some typical issues in the American language. Take a verbal agreement for instance; is it written or spoken? In point of fact,. verbal can be used for either since it means in the form of words. However, when we have such an explicit word as oral, why not be specific, and reserve verbal for generalities or written ex- pression? American language usage is frequently a matter of current style but some styles are more grating than others. The use of nouns for verbs is one example of usage sometimes abusing the ear or eye; He authored this report can lead to a Negative response on the part of some receiver of this communication. In such a case why not use the Housi·ng·- Fines TO: The Director of Residence Life FROM: the Members of Second Floor West College Dormitory RE: Student Fines In regard to the bills sent to the members of Second Floor West on Apri127, l!Y79 regarding damages to the fixtures, win- dows, fire extinguishers and smoke detectors mentioned in the memo of ~ April 25, 1979; payment of said fines is being withheld. We cite the Preliminary Report of the Drafting Com- mittee on General Campus Maintenance of April1979 which in part states: \Ass~~!J.menilil· tlf f.in.!ls to all members of a fluilr for destruction which CIHlllot be traced to Its ultimate source does not .. ~ppeal to- the c-o~n .. mlttee smce it perudites the innocent and creates a easual attitude toward destmetion; It may, ill fact~ be illegal.'t Page 12 Princlple. Payment will continue to be withheld until such time as this matter is resolved. 'Thank you for your patience.· available option \he wrote\ or \he is the author of\. However, in another case, \he contacted me seems much more ac- ceptable since it shortens the alternative of \he got in touch with me\. Nouns can be ver~d. but don't overdo it. Then again there is one of my favorite examples of linguistic misuse. \This group ·Of data is different from that group.\ Too often one hears or sees this as stated different than. Cofisider differentiating oHe thing or per sen hom the other, and reserve than for more or less thanso111ething. Of course there are some exceptions, but these differ fnom the rule and they are fewer than you think. Here are some additional words that get mauled in their usage. Flaunt and flout are sometimes smothered in pronunciation and are frequently misapplied one for the other. To flaunt is to make a boastful display such as, \by the size,of the letters on the door he flaunted his position\. To flout ·on the other hand is to treat with contempt. ''He flouted company procedures regularly\ is an example. When you learn the difference you might flaunt your knowledge and flout poorly used English. Perhaps one of the most common of errors, and one that displays a lack of sophistication on the part of the user is ·misappropriation of the word has lleen fl)und legaL Further, the C()ltege has always made the pul)cy · public through a publication by the Dean of Students Office, F. Y .I. The policy is legal, was publislled and will be continued. This should resolve the matter. Respectfully, David L.Wood Director of Residence Life Defense infer for imply. An inference is a deduction. You .literally take out a meaning from something written or spoken. \I infer from this memo that\ ... You are deriving something from something else. An implication <is a suggestion. merely a hint. \I implied that at 4:45 p.m. people are already out the door\. You suggested that something happens at a par- ticular time. To infer therefore has more of a substantial base of reasoning. That, at least, is what we imply. ·one other stylistic note: \Is everything alright?\ No it is not. It shoald read \is everything all right\. Com- bining words has taken on correctness out of usage and clarity. Stay away from alright. Short is not sweet. But you will quickly agree that you can write \this matter cannot be settled today.\ Cannot calls for the contracted word instead of can not. All right? Let us now lay to rest problems with lie, lay, and laid. Think of lay as putting an object somewhere, whereas lie means recline. That's simple enough. Except that the past tense of lay is laid, and the past of lie is lqy. Confused? Practice this: \I am going to lay down a rule; I laid down the· rule\ (lay, laid - to put l . ''I am not going to lie down on the job; I did not lay down on the job\ (lie, lay - recline). Now let's let (not leave) sleeping dogs lie. WMd tn impose a blanket fine, we believe it to\ be morally unjustifiable. Marat·hon Success Behind the combined efforts of the brothers, pledges, Little Sisters, and friends of Phi Sigma Kappa, the fraternity's In response to Mr. Wood's first annual marathon run for letter ()£ May 14th, we have cystic fibrosis was a tremen· several additional points to dous .success. ·The marathon make. l) The advice of the began on the evening of Friday~ attorney contacted by Mr. Wood May 11 and continued for 24 is deemed inadmissable due to hours. Rob Penney, the the fad that a partner in the law chairman of the event. ran the firm, retained by the college, is first Qf 420 laps around the half a trustee of the college. 2) The mile course encircling the expert legal sources that we center of campus. Twenty·four have <:!msulted have advised us hours later Ed Scholl completed to continue withholding the-420th lap. paymeM. and pursue the matter Throughout the entire event, through our governap.ce each rqnl}er was called ~pon :>yste.m. . · . · appro~tmat~ly 5 times to carry . · · we ··'are· cotlvmeed · that' ··Ute tlte 'naton 'for cys:tie·fi:tlt6Bis ·tn•' fining systelll as constituted iS this contmuous reta:y race for 1 inhetently unjust and '\'is a · breath; ··Considering· the · dif_. ' viola~ion of our due prooes$ ficult~ of runnin!$ with little ot'< rigbt.; We.·will have. submitile~:l ·\nosl~p the,,: our r~CQin.Plepdqt.ion f()r ch;~:~.ng~. .avec~g~ time of less thfln .7 · to the St-qqent Fottm,t and 'Yill ininut¢~ ·. pe;r .. mile W!ifl defer any further actum until a remarkable •. This . determined decision· is reached .,.by thein. effort allowed Phi Sigma Kappa The money for the fine has been to raise in excess of two collected and deposited in an thousand dollars to Cystic escrow acc~unt at the Mohawk Fibrosis in Albany. The money Natiooal Bank. ,of. Scllne~t&qy was ra~Q through the. <lom.- (the account number wiD be binatiori of business spons-ors forwarded}.. and individual pledges pet mile We would appreciate the by members of the campus supp()rt of the campus com... community. mllility in this endeavor. The idtta ·of a marathon run was formulated throughout the To the Members of the Secopd. The members of Second Floor past year. This particular Floor West College: West · c)larit.r · holds special Respo·nse si ~e .fc>r the brothers of The policy has been reviewed EditorJs'Note:Whelb.er oritot R ... ''\' ..... ~ecau~ tfieW · by tlie College attorneys and . ifls legally allowable for Mr. \lost rine of .1' br6thers to this Ooncordlet'IJJis will publish its last issue of the academic year next week. The paper goes to press ·intotbe final~ ............. . · disease early in .1918, Although tbis event was unquestionably successfUl, it was.marred by Qne unfortunate, appalling happening. Sometime '¥9Al.i''.\;;;Bj\ffli~uett··1lil1l'i~igeAlri\. : •:•.• •.o.• ·• • •>:·~ ...,,._.; · M•:w;-.-.•,?-.w~.-:-:-,,.,..'..,'.•0 :-:- ·•,· {{~-:-:.'.,_ ... '·'' '·''····. ·• •j I 'f I I I I t i .. I I : I I l I I ! i p by The Comm Frida) Fresh option, numb advisi' p.rece: The diSCU.!3 the Prect includ (an in year) for cours by Pr to en outlin supp( cours prep: matE: alloc• speal year arnot Th' an in expe fresl Pre< from werE expa to rica PI men cone be 1 askE cost arri res] forn c l) v a c a b c ' f \ J . j

s :1 ~ 1 e 1 1 t e s s s s 1 i \ 1 e i e 11 t t s ,, y 1 ~· () EPC Mee·ts:_- ·· -.,. # • . Prece.ptoriCIIs ·oisc·uss8d I ' - / byD_EBBEDAMRELL andS1$VEGRlLL - The Educational Policy CO!llfflittee. (EPC) .met last Friday to disqqgs four issues: Freshman J?r·e·ceptotia:$, an optional p1inor proPQsal, course numbermg, and acad~rnic adv:ising. mine the level of .replacement fUJJds :which should be awarded to each department whichhas a faculty mernbe.r teaching· a preceptorial. 'The information · which he referred to inc-ludes discussions with the various departments and . enrollment considerations; ln· many <:ases no replacement funds were given to departments, and these Preceptot--ials: departments are. therefore not The committee received. and included in ·thLproposed di~!~<iUS$ed:ap:ropose'd budget for .buc:lget. In thefuture it is the 1979-80 F,reshtnan planned ·that the Freshman Freceptorials .. This bf.idget Preceptorial prc;~gram will be includes approx:imately $35-;000 taugb:t without. replacement (anincrease of $ll),OOO over .last costs. However, before ·tbis it is for his..:her major and then an additional two to complete the t.ninor. · The intended purpose of tbis proposal was to enco.u:rage students to take courses outside of their major, -tmd to achieve some depth ln a given subJect. However, several members of EPC didn't feel it was necessary to institute this type· of program because they didn't think that it would make students .behave di'fferently. .After more discussion on this,. th~ ''optional m4'tor'' program was voted down. year), which will cover '''costs necessary to have the faculty of Course Numbering for staffing departmental '\!ari&usdepartrnents behind the Course Numbering for the courses which must be dropped: program, Dean Brownlee in· 1'980•81 acadetnic year was by Preceptors in order for them dicated. She described tbe disc~sed next. A .pt:oposed text. to enter this prograin. '' Also program as a ~·great in· for the 1980·81 Ac11dem1c outlined in the budget ~ere vestment in Union's fu.ture\. Register reads as follows: support costs-for ''etpense$ in Cputses bearing a number c9urse,.t.elated activities and Minors•Proposal between 1 and 9 do not carry prepar-ation of course .The ne!Ct topic of discussion credit toward .graduation, materials,'' including $5,000 was Mike Arata's pf()posal for although they may be req~red allocated to bring in outs,de an ''optional minor''. This in cerlain programs. · speakers (an increase ovetlast proposal would allow a stUdent, Courses :numbered 1 10-99 are year of $2,000). The total budget upon completion. of at least si'IC designed · for · undergraduates amouuts to $41,463.. . - courses in ·a department to 00 with limited experience in the These increases partly reflect · awarded a uminor\ in that discipline.. . - an increase in enrollment;it is department. · ·rh-ere · · w·as Cour~e~s.nu,m:bered 100-199 are expected that the number of · discussion as to how a niinor - designed for undergraduates freshmen electing to take the would appear on a- students · with a founaati\On of experience Precept9dals will increase transcript, along wit}! the other in the discipline. Some 10Q-level from 250 to 400. The Increases current desigr1;ations. Arato -·courses may be taken for were p•·oposed to' enh;:~nce and indicated that according to the graduate cr;edit, as specified in expana the .existing precet>- proposal it would be possible fot · certain programs. torial program. · · an Interdisciplinary ma1or to Courses numbered 2()().,399 are Professor Schne-ller., a also have a· minor !:lrea of graduate courses. Courses at member · .of EPC, expressed concentration. . the 200-level are open tQ ad- con~ern that these funds might Professor . MHillo expressed van_ged undergraduates with be better used elsewhere. He concerr~ with some patterns of the approval of the student's asked how the replacement six courses required for a adviser and the chairman of the costs for each department were minor. He questioned the ·department which Qffers the. arrived at, and· Dean NelSon viability of a minor awarded to course. Cours.es at the 300-level responded that much in- a $tudent whohastakenfour of are nbrmally Clo.sed to un-· formation was used to deter~ those cnurses as a req11irement Continued on page 8 Continued fr6tn page Z . between the hOUFS· of three' and Let.ters , ___ _ i · 1 made the INS PoSsible: vive in tlw tn(}I'ft ng, a nomma 1\\~ .. , 1 d. \\·;\ham. Mark In,.\''ts ammmt of mooey along with a .l.xh 1 \\'\'•• , &\\\ casb box were storen from the Steven Geller; Ed Bornstein, area where beer and soda were Jim Garafalo, Carl Hommell, being sold to support the J.On Stone, Chuck Sonuner, charity. Tu think that anyone Richard Creern, Paul Baker, would stoop so low ~ to steal Bruce Kaplan, Ted Seoor, Jeff from a charity event is alm<lst Silverman. Profes..~rs GaU and be'yond .belief. _ Srownri a 1 ~ th 1 e S$eciretaries odf The brothers of Phi Sigma the f\O itlca c ence an Kappa , would like to thank Economics departments, along .everyone who helped to make with anyboay else we•ve this event the success it was. forgotten. Thi$ineludes ev:eryone: Wbo:ivas T h·a· n~ k~ . 5 generous enough to ple(lge . . money toward thiS WO!tby cause. The spons<>TS, . wboatso make tb~ evm ww• Campus .. . m. & :Mrs. Harolti McBride and family wish to t~Jtpresstheir , Editors-in•Chief · News Editors · Layout Editors Feature Editors Associate Edit0r Business Editors Classified Editor Arts Editor Sports Editors sineerest thanks to aU of you at The college, students, staff ana taculty for your very generous help in our time of need. All that you have donated has helped us to furnish a new home. It's a nice feeling to know that people do care and' are willing to help with time, money, clothing and furniture . We wish ,you to know that you are welcome to stop by at our new home any evening fur a cup of ·coffee ·and our personal thabb God Bless You All and again thank you. . : · Mr. &Mrs. Harold McBride · . and family .. ·- Douglas Rosenfeld, Sara Simmons · Paul Feinsot, Melissa Cragili Matt Nagorsky, Dan Wojnilower Sue Barnhart, Donna Creeley David Rubin Carole Reinig, Gina Torrisi . Roberta Moss Cindy Aranow · Matt !{ayne,.Matk Palomba Pat C6ndello, Pam Ryan PatWrignt JanDeDeka MarthaRubenstein, Linda Owen Copy Editors . Photography Editor Fine Lines Editor Subscription Editors Staff · DebbeDamrell, Steve Grill, Joanne Malin . · • . CONCORDIENSIS is published every . Thursday by the student . body of Union College, Carnegie Hall, Schene~ta~y, New York, ·12308; Publications Office: Susquehanna Pubbcat10ns, Inc., 8~ . l:teynolds Avej, Oneonta, N~w York ~3820, (607) 432.;s737. Ente~ed, m the Schenectady Post Offlce as thtrd cl~~s matter. Subscr~ptlon ·rate: 35 cents per copy, $10per year, delivered anywhere m. the ·:Uniwd States. Over-the·Hiii:-Ga'g Under the Gun To' be a rule enforcer in general or a sequrity officer ln particular is tg assume the role of the 'heavy• in many instances., and so to incur the wrath a~d .an· tipathy of those wllo would break the rule~- Th1s 1s a simple consequential tact of the law enforcement trade, and as such must be accepted, albeit disliked, by our security officers here at Union. Aperson whose car is ticketed whiLe parked for five minutes in front of Carnegie Hall wnne the owner runs in for the day's :mail can not 'be expected to·love security officers. 1f our officers cannot accept or deal with tne less-than- loving right m Which they are often regarded by the ·people of tbe campus, they should :find other, more innocuous. sources ot ·employment for themselves. The manner in which many of the campus security efficers depOrt :themselves in matters official suggests that they can not effectively deal \Yi.th their .. roles as security <lf:ftcers. There have ~een too many cases wherein Union's security· officers have given veilt to their _!_ru.~tratl()n$, personal or job-related, thr.ougn their call()US treatment of students. Officers · who yell at and threaten with parking tickets the · students with wbom they must daily deal are not actmg in a professional manner. Officers who deal na~tily with students who report the· location of someone who has decided to take advantage of the ' spri.Jlg sun by sho()ting targets with a hunter's bow in a highly populated area of campus--well, these. of- ficers are just downright ignorant .and rude. Student disgust over Uruon's security office arrangement ha;splaguedthe campusfor at least the three years of my attendance here. M:uch of the student dislike of security is rooted tn the natural consequence of the~):' being wary of :those who woulQ. .enforce campus rules (ruies which, by the way, they ShoUld enforc-e) and so stifle any would-be law breakers. Mere than this, though, stu4ents re$ent a security force which revels in the enf<>rcement of less serious infractionswhlle it deals so inadequately With the more serto'lts offenses and situations. Perhaps soa'l:e e~a.mples would serve both to justify and to elucidate this point. Last week white the aforementioned bow·and- arrow huntsman was impressing the women on Rieh- mond' s front lawn with his targ.et-shootiltg prowess, where was security? It took several phone calls and around twenty ndnutes before a security car, coming from off·campus. ·finally reached the scene. Was the · entire force out to lunch? The lone pfficer than parked out of the huntsman's sight and b.egan to interview people, while arrows continued to :fly through the air. When he tnenti(!)ned that he was goin·g to walt for another security officer to arrtv.e before he did anything, it became clear that he was afraid .for his life; he appa.rently thought that the target shooter may have been homicidal. Why did it take him so long to realize that a SWAT operation Was not necessary and that a simple 'cease ana desist' request would have ended the whole charade? And did you hear the one about the travelling security officer an·d West ·College.'s residents? Three years ago, a vandal smashed a car window in the West parking lot and proceeded to steal its stereo. Several studtn.ts grabbed the thief and, when security finally arrived to take custody of the thief, he walked away, jumped lnto his jeep, and drove away while security failed to get even his license plate number!! These selected lncldents from the Union College Anthoiogy of SUly Security Maneuvers point to the ignorance and ineptitude on the part of Union's security force and contrast sharply With the zealous devotion to duty which is evident as our indomitable security officers ticket parked automobiles. It may be a surer way to enforce the law by neglecting more important situations for comparatively insignificant ones. But thls 1s alsQ a surer way for security to lose any of the esteem in the eyes of the campus com .. munity, esteen which it possibly could have had in the past had it aeted differently, and esteem which it perhaps may' recapture for itself in tl)e future if it amends-its wa.ys. . The key to til.e reform of the security department of the College most .definitely lle$. in, the selection t)f competent of~lcers who would conduct themselves as prOfessionals. It may be expected that these types-of people will come to work here only if the salaries of Union's security: officers see an increase. If the old maxim of \you get what you pay for\ really holds true, then the'College cannot be paying much for their security officers and o~ght to consider paying out a great deal mC)re if the security situation is to improve. The current situation of campus cornmunt.tY~$ecurity .relations is a self-perpetuating stralned r.elationship. The community; basing its respect for security on the latter's past performance, matures to be disap- pointed in it and not expectations of security's ac- tions. Security! in its turn, bears_ the brunt of campus disrespect, and so its attitudes WC)rsen, which causes more campus bad feeling, etc. Unless some decisive steps are. taken to ameliorate the security situation, we Will at best have· to make do with the status quo, and at worst. suffer that status quo, which is already at a low point, to sink even further. ·

. ~:r. , ' l E i I 1 i , i 1 t t l 1 ) 1 1 :, y 1 ·j I I i I CONCORDIJJJNSIS, May 17, 1919 EPC Meets: Preceptor ici.ls- Discussed by DEBBE DA~RELL and STEVE GRILL The Educational Policy Committee (EPC) met last Friday to discuss four issues: Freshman Pre·ceptoria;s, an optional Plinor proposal, course numbering, a.nd acadetnic advising. Preceptoria 1s: The conunittee received and discussed a proposed budget for the 1979-30 Freshman Preceptoria.ls. This Ji'udget includes approximately $35,000 (an increase of $10,000 over last year), which will cover \costs for staffing departmental courses which must he dropped by Preceptors iN order for them to enter this . program.'' Also outJined in the budget were support costs for \expenses in course-related activities and preparation of course materials,\ including $5,000 allocated to bring in outside speakers (an increase over last year of $2,000). The total budget amounts to $41,463. These increases partly reflect an increase in enrollment; it is expected that the number of freshmen electing to take the Preceptorials will increase from 250 to 400. The increases were proposed to enhance and expand the .existing precep- torial program. · Professor Schneller, a member of EPC, expressed concern that these funds might be better used elsewhere. He asked how the replacement costs for each department were arrived at, and Dean Nelson responded that much in- formation was used to deter- mine the level of replacement funds which should be awarded to each department which has a faculty member teaching- a preceptorial. The information which he referred to includes discussions with the various departments and enrollment considerations. In many cases no replacement funds were given to departments, and these departments are therefore not included in the~ proposed budget. In thefuture it is planned that the Freshman Preceptorial program will be taught without replacement costs. However, before this it is necessary to have the faculty of various departments behind the program, Dean Brownlee in- dicated. She described the program as a \great in- vestment in Union's future\. Minors-Proposal The next topic of discussion was Mike Arato's proposal for an \optional minor\. This proposal would allow a student, upon completion of at least six courses in a department to be awarded a \minor\ in that department. There was discussion as to how a minor · would appear on a· students transcript, along with the other current designations. Arato indicated that according to the proposal it would be possible for an Interdisciplinary major to also have a minor area of concentration. Professor Milillo expressed concern with some patterns of six courses required for a minor. He questioned the viability of a minor awarded to a student who has taken four of those courses as a requirement for his-her major and then an additional two to complete the minor. The intended purpose of this proposal was to encourage students to take courses outside of their major, and to achieve some depth in a given subject. However, several members of EPC didn't feel it was necessary to institute this type of program because they didn •t think that it would make students behave differently. After more discussion on this, the \optional minor\ program was voted down. C(lurse Numbering Course Numbering for the 1980-81 academic year was discussed next. A proposed text for the 1930-81 Academic Register reads as follows: Courses bearing a number between 1 and 9 do not carry credit toward graduation, although they may be required in certain programs. Courses numbered !10-99 are designed for undergraduates with limited experience in the discipline. Cours~s numbered 100-199are designed for undergraduates with a foundation of experience in the discipline. Some lO~level courses may be taken for graduate credit, as specified in certain programs. Courses numbered 200-399 are graduate courses. Courses at the 200-level are open to ad- van~ed l.Uldergraduates with the approval of the student's adviser arrd the chairman of the department which offers the course. Courses at the 300-level are normally closed to un- Continued on page 8 Let.ters · ............ - Continued fr~m page 2 between the hours of three and vive in thE mGrning, a nominal amnunt of money along with a cash box were stolen from the area where beer and soda were being sold to support the charity. To think that anyone would stoop so low as to steal from a charity event is almost beyond belief. _ The brothers of Phi Sigma Kappa . would like to thank .everyone who helped to make this event the success it was. Thm includes everyone who was generous enough to pledge money toward this worthy ca.use. The sponsors, who also Jlltlke this ev.ent were Campus .• ~.~.N;s:, . This Saturday, 12 May, ~TI Giplom:a£y Fails (Union's wargaming club) rarfwbat bas bect>me' a tradition, the Inter~ \' Sitiitrktl'w'li' <:\~~fN.S.)i \ \from..·· t::wo · ~Fblitical Science courses were organized inta seven countries, whicll took part in diplomacy and trade until a border dispute erupted into a nuclear war. When ...... ,,,li( like to made the INS possible: DavidDuilham, Mark Ingalls, Steven Geller; Ed Bornstein, Jim Garafalo, Carl Hommell, Jim Stone, Chuck Sommer, Richard Creem, Paul Baker, Bruce Kaplan, Ted Secor, Jeff Silverman, Professors Gati and Brown, and the secretaries of the Political Science and Economics departments, along with anybody else we've forgotten. Th·anks Mr. & Mrs. Harold McBride and family wish to express their C!rnnrnr sineerest thanks to all of you at The college, students, staff and taculty for your very generous help in our time of need. All that you have d<lnated has helped us to furnish a new home.lt'sanicefeeling to know that people do care and, are willing to help with time, money, clothing and furniture. We wish you t() know that you are welcome to stop by at our new home any evening for a cup of coffee ·and our personal thaflks, God Bless You All and again thank you. Mr. & Mrs. Harold McBride and family - Douglas Rosenfeld, Sara Simmons Editors-in-Chief News Editors Layout Editors Feature Editors Associate Editor Business Editors Classified Editor Arts Editor Sports Editors Copy Editors Photography Editor Fine Lines Editor Subscription Editors Staff Paul Feinsot, Melissa CragiU MattNagorsky, Dan Wojnilower Sue Barnhart, Donna Creeley David Rubin Carole Reinig, Gina Torrisi Roberta Moss Cindy Aranow Matt Kayne, Mark Palomba Pat C6ndello, Pam Ryan Pat Wrignt JanDeDeka Martha Rubenstein, Linda Owen Debbe Damrell, Steve Grill, Joanne Malin CONCORDIENSIS is published every Thursday by the student body of Union College, Carnegie Hall, Schene~ta~y, New York, 12308· Publications Office: Susquehanna Publlcat10ns, Inc., 8% Reyn~lds Ave., Oneonta, New York 13820, (607) 432.(i737. Ente~e~ in the Schenectady Post Office as third class matter. Subscnptwn rate: 35 cents per copy, $10 per year, delivered anywhere in the .united States. Page 3 Over-the-Hiii-GaJ.:~g Under the Gun To be a rule enforcer in general or a security officer ln particular is to assume the role of the 'heavy' in many instances and so to incur the wrath and an- tipathy of those 'who would break the rules. This is a simple consequential fact of the law enforcement trade, and as such must be accepted, albeit disliked, by our security officers here at Union. A person. whose car is ticketed while parked for five minutes m front of Carnegie Hall while the owner runs in for t~e day's mail can not be expected to love security officers. If our officers cannot accept or deal with the less-than- loving light in which they are often regarded by the people of the campus, they should find other, more innocuous sources of employment for themselves. The m~ner in which many of the campus security officers deport themselves in matters official suggests that they can not effectively deal with their roles as security officers. There have been too many cases wherein Union's security officers have given vent to their frustrations, personal or job-related, through their callous treatment of students. Officers who yell at and threaten with parking tickets the students with whom they must daily deal are not acting in a professional manner. Officers who deal nastily with students who report the location of someone who has decided to take advantage of the spring sun by shooting targets with a hunter's bow in a highly populated area of campus--well, these of- ficers are just downright ignorant and rude. Student disgust over Union's security office arrangement has plagued the campus for at least the three years of my attendance here. Much of the student dislike of security is rooted in the natural consequence of their being wary of those who would enforce campus rules (rules which, by the way, they should enforce) Md so stifle any would-be law breakers. Mere than this, though, students resent a security force which revels in the enforcement of less serious infractions while it deals so inadequately with the more serious of:fenses and situations. Perhaps some e~amples would serve both to justify and to elucidate this point. Last week while the aforementioned bow-and- arrow huntsman was impressing the women on Rieh- mond's front lawn with his target-shooting prowess, where was security? It took several phone calls and around twenty minutes before a security car, coming from off-campus, finally reached the scene. Was the entire force out to lunch? The lone officer than parked out of the huntsman's sight and began to interview people, while arrows continued to fly through the air. When he mentioned that he was going to wait for another security officer to arrive before he did anything, it became clear that he was afraid for his life; he apparently thought that the target shooter may have been homicidal Why did it take him so long to realize that a SWAT operation was not necessary and that a simple 'cease and desist' request would have ended the whole charade? And did you hear the one about the travelling security officer and West College's residents? Three years ago, a vandal smashed a car window in the West parking lot and proceeded to steal its stereo. Several stud~nts grabbed the thief and, when security finally arrived to take custody of the thief, he walked away, jumped into his jeep, and drove away while security failed to get even his license plate number!! These selected incidents from the Union College Anthology of Silly Security Maneuvers point to the ignorance and ineptitude on the part of Union's security force and contrast sharply with the zealous devotion to duty which is evident as our indomitable security officers ticket parked automobiles. It may be a surer way to enforce the law by neglecting more important situations for comparatively insignificant ones. But this is also a surer way for security to lose any of the esteem in the eyes of the campus com- munity, esteen which it possibly could have had in the past had it acted differently, and esteem which it perhaps may recapture for itself in the future if it amends its ways. The key to the reform of the security department of the College most definitely lies in the selection , )f competent officers who would conduct themselves as professionals. It may be expected that these types-of people will come to work here only if the salaries of Union's security officers see an increase. If the old maxim of \you get what you pay for\ really holds true, then the College cannot be paying much for their security officers and ought to consider paying out a great deal more if the security situation is to. improve. The current situation of campus community-security relations is a self-perpetuating strained relationship. The community, basing its respect for security on the latter's past performance, matures to be disap- pointed in it and not expectations of security's ac- tions. Security, in its turn, bears the brunt of campus disrespect, and so its attitudes worsen, which causes more campus bad feeling, etc. Unless some decisive steps are taken to ameliorate the security situation, we will at best have to make do with the status quo, and at worst suffer that status quo, which is already at a low point, to sink even further.

. ' ' . : I Page 4_ OONCORDJE!VSIS, ¥~Y 1'1, 1979 ulture Trying \The Try-Out'' by DONNA CREELEY Isn't is about time that you broke out of your usual boring routine? How about. adding some zest, excitement and emotion to your life? We coUld let our curiosities lead us temporarily, as we participate in an original experience. We might .call our endeavor, \The Try-Out\. For \The Try-Out'', let's spend an evening next week in the Nott, looking closely at the lives of five people verv much Cell:ist Bows· R,D. Allen, the biologist, was recently apointed Ira Allen Eastman Professor of Biology at Dartmouth College where he has been Professor and Chairman of the Department of Biological Sciences . from 1975 through 1978. His special in- terests in the fields of · Cell Biology and Biophysics are cell motility and microscope in- strumentation. He has received a nurnber of grants and awards. His publications ·include two books, over 100 research ar· tides, and 25 research documentation and in· structional films in biology. Dr. Allen received his un- dergraduate education at Brown University (1949) and his doctorate at the University of Pennsylvania (1953)., After two years.of postdoctoral training in Stockholm and Naples, he served on the faculties of the University .. of Michigan (1954- 56), Princeton University (1956~ 66), and the State University of New York at Albany (1966-74), where he was chairman wttil 1972. R.D. Allen the cellist began lessons on the piano at age 3 (1930) and on the cello at age 5. The first recital was given at age 10 in Providence, Rhode Island. From 1937 until1949, he studied with Jean Bedetti, then principal cellist of the Boston Symphony Orchestra. From 1942 to 1949 he concertized throughout New England while managing the usual academic and extracurricular activities of high· school and college, in- cluding participat-ion in basketball and track teams. The early intention to become a concert cellist was reconsidered in 1945 because of a slow- healing hand injury. Never- theless, he attended the Boston Symphony's summer music school, Tanglewood in the Berkshires, for two years as a Koussevitsky Scholar (1946, 1947) and for one additional year as the winner of a scholarship in a national compatition. As a student at Brown University, he gave annual recitals at the College,. played chamber music concerts with three members of the music faculty, taught cello til six other students, and served. as prin- cipal cellist of the Rhode I~land Philharmonic Orchestra as·well as the Brown University Orchestra. The schedule of a science professor is not very conducive to th-e hig~est quality of musical performance. Nevertheless, Dr. Allen has managed, during his career as a biologist, to play concerti With two orchestras, most recently with the Hanover Chamber Orchestra. He has played solo recitals · on the Rockefeller University Concert Series (1973, 1975) in Albany (1973, 1975, 1977) and Schenectady, N.Y. (1971, 1973, 1975), in Boston, Mass. (1976) and in Hanover, N.H. (1976). On Monday, May 14, cellist Robert Day Allen, performed for Union College faculty and students. Dr. Allen exhibited his virtuosity on Ariosa by Johann Sebastian Bach, Sonata in G Major by Jean Baptiste Breval, Sonata in D Major Op, 102 No. 2 by Ludwig Von Beethoven and Sonata in C Major by Sergei Prokofieff. Accompanied on piano by Beverly Gaylord, Allen performed in conjunction with a seminar in creativity taught by Willard Roth, Professor of Biology and Edgar CUrtis, Professor of Music. Allen is the second scientist-musician to visit Union. Gold Medalist Carried aloft At the speed of sun · For one gleaming catch Of breath, the object Of all human emotion, The reason for hands Beating in time To the hearts' clapping~ Defiant of wind, indeed To all gods' breaths In a unity of one, He won. He won as the Greeks Won in laurelled Olympia Beloved of the crowd In love with them Winning for them With thelfi '.' In a furiui!S blast Of triumph And momentary immortality That was at last Only his own. Anonymous· Please send allsubmissions for Finelines t~Jan De Deka, Fin~line Editor, Box 1388. ' ' ' like ourselves. Evan, a con- fused, emot.ional playwrite, and Lydia, the sexy actress from across the hall whom he falls in love with. But, a rich, young, lawyer, named Brad stands in the way of Evan's attempts to form a romantic relationship with Lydia. Evan's sister, Liz, certainly offers , no . en- couragement for either Evan's lifestyle or his romance .. Anc;l · then, there is Randi! 'She is the dominant,. but loose director who understands the trials and tribulations of the other four characters aod offers the contrasting ami insightful ·view to their Uvt;ls. To aide our '''Try-Out\ we willemploy Alan E.S. Jones and Mitch Baruchin to light up the two apartment stage that George Ward and John Gaines have designed and built. Then we'll add a· few props from David Varl· Wess and :Jenny Richman. Under the direction of the talented author, Gary Glauber', who wili be assisted by rodd Miller and Allston Allison, we'll cast five students to act in the roles of our characters and provide .for us a most realistic view. As Evan, there Will :be Chip Baker, Verna Lowe as Lydia, Nina Stengel as Liz, George Siletzky as Brad and Natalie Barandes as Ran!fi. With these additions to our evening, we will surely have a unique opportunity to view an original production. On~packed full of emotions, from romance, to comedy, to~ tragedy. It's realistic and offers everyone a chance to sit back and view their own lives through the media of drama. What is even finer, is that it will give Gary his start in what is expected to be a promising dramatic career! · The show premieres on Wednesday, May 23 and runs through Sunday, May 27. Tickets are on sale at the Nott Box Office with tickets for Wednes~ay and Thursday costing $1.50 for Union students and faculty and $2.00 for weekend petfonnances. lt will surely prove to be a worthwhile and memorable evening for all who attend, for as one :actress states,\ It is Witty, wann, and wonderful! ! \ Chip Baker rehearsing his leading role in Gary Glauber~s c:>riginal proc;luction, \The Try-Out.\ Book Review Confessions • 0 • In his new book, CON- FESSI-ONS OF A CON- SERVATIVE, the .celebrated journalist. Garry Wi:lls offers a very personal and engrossing search for the true nature of conservatism in America today. ~ A columnist whose work has appeared in such publications; as NATIONAL REVIEW, ESQUIRE, NEW YORK, and THE NEW YORK REVIEW of BOOKS, Mr. Wills is the author of eight earlier books,. including NIXON AGONISTES. For his- previous book, INVENTING. AMERICA 0978), he has received the National Book Critics Circle Award, ~nd the Organization of American . Historian's Merle Curti Award for the best book of American intellectual history of 1977 and In CONFESSIONS OF A CONSERV A'l'IVE, published on May 4, Wills' concern is to arrive at the true nature of conservatism, along the way shattering the self-ser-ving myths of liberals and con- servative.s alike. The work succe~ds on many levelst as a clear-sighted· vieW of what' conservatism is and is· hot; as a refr~shing fook at the American political process. in this .pre- election year; and as an irresistable portrait of the growth of one person's political conscience. PUBUCATION DATE: May 4, 1979 PRICE: $11l.OO PAGES: 231 1978. At present a nominee for T. 1 0 the National Book Award, Mr. op . ·. Wills is an adjunct professor of . · .• · ·. the humanities at Johns _ Hopkins University. WRUC's Top 10 Albums Wills has bad a fasCinating 23 April:.12M~y and a typicat· career., the per- sonal experiences of which 1. Joe Jackson, \Look Sharp\ provide much of the substance 2. Flash and the Pan of CONFESSIONS OF A 3. Rickie Lee Jones CONSERVATIVE. Fresh out of 4. . Graham Parker, a Jesuit seminary, Wills started · ''Squeezing Out Sparks'' · as a columnist for National 5. Bob Dylan, \At Budol{an\ · Review. Policy debates there 6. Charlie Daniels, \Million . eventually prompted him to Mile Reflections\ - leave for ESQUIRE, a 7. Marshall Tucker, ·~Running magazine many consider to Like-the Wind\ have been the heart of the 8. Supertramp, \Breakfast in • libetal establishment in the late America\ 1960'S, when Wills joined the - 9. Allman Brothers,. staff. But soon he found himself · ' 4 Enlightened Rogues · as ·critical of liberal in- to. Police, ''Outlandos consistencies as he was of d' Amour\ conservative quiescence. L----.--_,....------.------' last Days Of Graphics \The illustrated book is not perhaps absolutely necessary to man's life, but it gives us such . endless pleasure ... that it must· remain one of the worthiest things towards the production of which reasonable man · should strive.\ That commen~, made by artist and ·writer Willi-am Morris during the last decades of the 19th Century, introduces the catalogue for an exhibit at' the Union Gallery of the Schenectady Museum called \Graphic Arts and Dlustration From· Portfolio, Prose and Verse: Hogarth to Calder.\ The 77-78 First FI.Qor 1 s J ,. -'~ ~· ,.. • Richmond Revival Shows at 9 & 11 '\' Tickets On Sale Sp.m. in Carnegie - . ·• 'I~ .. ' .. - ,., . exhibit opened at the Museum on April 21_ and will remain on display through May 20. Museum hours are 10 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. Tuesday through Friday and noon to 5 p.m. Saturday and Sunday. The 27 works- .. illustrations from the last three centuries- are from the collection of Schaffer Library. They illustratE' a. great variety of subject matter .. -works o'f Homer, Dickens, Baudelaire, Dante, Chaucer, Gide-.and a similar variety of graphic media--wood .. cut, etching, engraving and lithography. The works include several by William Blake and Gu8tave Dore, and, ·from more ret!ent years, illustrations by Braque, , Baskin, and Calder's illustrations for A. BESTIARY BY Richard WilbUr. The exhibit was selected and arranged. by_ Jane Rehl and Jan Perrin, assistants to the director of the~ Union. Gallery, assiSted by Sch~er Library archivist Frances D. Miller. ClJ D Ima social a pres a sed swept am on: acyni judgE speci policE vi van cars, a dod a sur wife. No1 asse1 fonn come ever~ you perh< legal sam1 pros• Bo• Bal Fol Abo Jim Bl YOl of tl com nocE and fiftil into revi Nev Los wor T hat: (Ge We: Los wa: for latE infl (ar Be1 art Mt VOl for wh Ri1 Mi M~ br: co: ex thi thl an m th m pc: hi ['( PI ni pi Cl lc rl d h n tl c I I \ ~ i l

Page 5 cultu~ , . . . . art6 ' -- De:lightful Indians byTODD MILLER Imagine yourself, a vivacious social secretary, trying. to enjoy a presumably restful holiday on a secluded island off the wind;.. swept coast of Devon, England, among the following company: a cynical adventurer, a hanging judge, ~ Skittish nerve speGialist, a blustery policeman, a giddy yoW1g bon vivant with a penchant for fast cars, a Bibl~banging spinster,. a doddering old retired general, a surly butler, and bis priggish wife . ....._ · Now imagine that as you're assembled for drinks and formal introductions, a voice comes out of the air, accusing everyone present - including you - of 111urder;. murder perhaps not in the conventional, legal sense, but m\!lrder all the same to your disembodied prosecutor. Book Review~ Baby Let Me Follow You Down A book by Eric VonSchmidt and Jim JtoQney BABY, LET ME FOLLOW YOU DOWN tells the true story ·Of the Cambridge (Mass.) folk community from its first in- nocent strums in living rooms and coffeehouses in the late fifties and follows its members into the whirl of the folk music revival of the early sixties-to New York, Berkeley, Nashville, Los Angeles, Newport ... and the world. · The folk music revival was happening in New York (Gerde's Folk City) and on the West Coast (The Troubador in Los Angeles), but Cambridge was the center. and crossroads for the group of musicians Who later were .to become the most influential figures in the folk (and pop} music worlds. Beginning at the Club 47, local artists such as Tom Rush, Geoff Muldaur, Joan B.aez, Eric vonSchmidt, and others soon formed a circuit of coffeehouses which attracted Bob Dylan, Richard and Mimi Farina, Joni Mitchell, Judy Collins, Taj Mahal and others to Cam- bridge. Voices and photography combine to vividly recreate the excitement of the years wheJ! these singers led a generation in the rediscovery of the meaning and magic of American folk musia. This was the time when the honesty and vitality of folk music combined with the raw power of urban blues and the high energy of electric roc~ 'n roll to create a new Amencan popular music. This year is the 25th an- niversary of rock 'n' roll, and people across the nation are celebrating its birth .• They are looking ba~k \to their m~sical roots. Folk and rock mus1c are distinct musi-cal forms but their history blends and many of our more popular rock singers today were born out of that Cambridge folk group. · In the opening lines of BABY, LET ME FOLLOW . YOU DOWN, Jim Rooney and Eric vonScbffiidt describe tbe mood and spirit of thsoe days~ \Sweet innocence. None of us will ever be that innocent again.'' PUBLICATION DATE: May 18, 1979 PRICE: $8:95 PAGES: 320 black and white photographs throughout. Imagine fw:ther that ifrom deliberately cool manner made this point on, vadous members him chillingly effective as of this motley fellowship are Justice Wargrave\ Dan being done in, one'byone, to the (\Wacky\) Lacoff's Blore was homicidall~·interpreted rhyme an absolute gem of character scheme of a popular children's acting; Art Zewert as General verse, by some fiendishly clever , MacKenzie provided audience individual, whose .identity is members with an a1most text- U.N. Owen (''unknown\). book study in senility; Barry Finally, imagine that the SYmond's, fondly remembered -.: murderer is one of you. Ior his role as Goat in The Cl From Anthony Marston's first Robber Bridegroom, ~urned in ~ hebephrenic giggle to the final his usual admirable best as the ~ revelation of the murderer, nervous nerve specialist, Dr. ~ Agatha ChrisUe's Ten Little Armstrong; the winsome Patty ~ Indians is a tightly-crafted Chai~fetz portrayed the f I thriller replete with red character of Emily Brent so herrings, passionate ac- persuasively that I cheered to John Morgan· and Margaret Perkins In a scene from Indians.\ cusations, and tense en- myself when she got hers in the counters; from an audience's end with a hypo; Steven perspective, it is devillishly Kilgore's Anthofly Marston good fun. The play, which nm in· reminded me of one of those the Nott from May ·9-13 untler aristocratic twits so elegantly the sure directorial hand of depicted by Monty Python in Sharon Rubin, showcased not their classic bit, \The Twit only the talents of some Race;'' Chris Eschenberg seasoned aCtors and actresses, (Rogers) and Mary Matti.J:nore but also revealed (and very (Mrs. Rogers) were both pleasantly at ,th~t) the fine delightful as the help; and dramatic sensibilities of several Adam Frey, ·in this reviewer's newcomers to Union Theatre. opinion, deserved a standing Margaret Perkins turned in a ovation for his often touching, near-flawless performance as never boring, performance in Vera Claythome, the , .social the ,crucial role as the boatman, secretary; John Morgan's Fred Narracott. :.....good show, Lombard was just the right Mr. Frey! mixture of cynicism and Indeed, a good show all athletic energy; Bill Hancock's around. measured movements and · -- David Frost to .Speak David Frost, the ·Etnmy Award-winning television personaUty, will speak at Memorial Chapel on Wed., May 23 at 8:30 p,m. Admission to the speech, which is SPQnsored by the Union Colleg·e Speakers Forum, is 75 cents with Union• I.D. and $1.50 for non-Union pers_ons. \We shall aim for un- predictability and we shall not side-step controversy,\ David .Frost said in announcing his current project .for NBC-TV. called Headlines, a series of exclusive interviews and action profiles of headliners in the I entertainment world. However. that same .Flashbacks-· ·To COium.bia statement could be used to describe most of Frest's ven· tures. His boldness can well be rneasure.d by the diverse, per .. sonalities who have agreed to talk With him in broadcast in- terviews. Frost's newest bestseller, \I Gave Them A Sword: Behind the Scenes of the Nixon Interviews,\ is an example .of one of his unique coups in the entertainment world. In addition to Nixon, Frost bas conducted interviews for television with a roster of world figures, including Prime Ministers Harold Wilson, Edward Heath, and James Callaghan of Great Britain; Prince Charles, Moshe Dayan, King Hussein, Golda Meir, Yasser Arafat, Mrs. Lyndon Johnson, former Vice Presidents Nelson Rockefeller and Spiro Agnew; Rhodesian Premier Ian Smith, Indira Gandhi, and the late Robert Kennedy. Among en- tertainment personalities who bave answered Frost's questions during in-depth in- terviews are the Beatles, Woody Allen, Sophia Loran, Orson Welles and many more. Frost has also produced the films \Leadbelly\ and \The Slipper LYNNE GREENBERG How many people can say they've spent ten. weeks living in a poverty stricken South American country? Twelve Union students -had the op- portunity to. spend winter term in I Bogota, Columbia learning about a different culture. Among them were Dana Thau, ,,Rich Simons, and Jill Stein. Many people may wonder why someone would want }o spend a term aw~y from Um~n­ in a country like ColumJna instead of a European country? Rich felt the people who par- ticipated were a special group of people who were willing to give up the luxuries that they were used to in order to learn a great deal in exchange. As Dana said, \Why not go someplace different?\ , Upon arrival, the students were absolutely overwhelmed. A~cording to Rich, ''After the , first day I was ready to take the first plane home.\ The students were picked up by their host' families, after their 24 hour plane ride, and brought to their homes. \We wanted to say things and they talked to us, but we couldn't understand <Plything.\ The students went with varying backgrounds in ·Spanish. Some students, sue~ as Dana, had been studymg Spanish since Grade 5. <?th~rs had only co~pleted begmnmg Spanish. \The pe~ple, thought we were absolute idiots when we tried to talk to them. It was great to be able to ~top ~n­ centrating ()n everythirtg bemg said and be able to talk English again.\ · · ' Dana explained,. there were some advantages to having no one around them knowing English. The students we1:e able to sit on buses and talk about pe9pie around them or tlllk about products iR stores. \It was like being invisible.\ The students lived with middle class families.. The families were paid to house the students. \The poor couldn't afford to house students and the rich didn't need to.\ Each morning they would travel by bus to an American institution, CEUCA, where they studied. Beginning at 8 a.m., the students took three courses taught by Columbian professors and Professor Nichols of Union. The students could not believe how different Columbia was from what they were used to. Columbia to them, was a country of \contrast\. On one street, one could see . a brand new car, next to a horse and buggy, which was next to a mule. The poor were unbelievably poor,. The government was run by the mt\y fl~n. unuke m tbe U.S., thf poor have no hope, no Social Security, nor any Welfare ben!;lfits. Accordingto Rich, one of the hardest things to accept -were the \gamines\ .. These were very young children who had been throWn out of their homes and literally lived on · the streets. The Columbians were immune to them and showed no pity. One night the Union .group went to see a movie about the gamines. They were practically . brought to tears by the movie while the Columbians were Afternoons of Pamela M,onn Tues. May 22 7,9 & 11 p.m. $.75 55016 • Rated X! laughing hysterically. The Columbians ·had many old and superstitious customs. Wh~n a person got up off a bus seat people would wait a few minutes before sitting down on the seat. The students discotered that the Columbians believe a person can catch VD by .sitting on a warm seat. The food in Columbia was extremely poor. \The meat was terrible. They live on rice and potatoes and rice and potatoes and ... ,\ according to Dana. Lunchtime is the big meal of the day. Would Dana, Rich, and Jill recommend the trip to Columbia'! ''Definitely; they all answer with enthusiasm. \We learned so much about our- selves in adddition to learning about Columbia.\ ' As Dana described, \I'd been a Long Islander my whole life and in Columbia I found myself doing things I never could have dreamt of doing.\ Dana was .referring to mdving boulders for a bus to move and staying in $1.50 motel rooms. Rich felt he has learned what life is really like. \I appreciate so' many things now. It's in· credible what we have that others don't.\ Jill comments, ''I can't tell you what a .fantastic experience it was-the best ten weeks of my life.\ and the Rose.\ • Frost's first major impact on United Stat~s television came via NBC with the American version of the British satirical hit, \Tills Was the Week That Was.\ Some of his recent television productions include \James A. Michener's .. Dynasty,\ starring Sarah Miles and \Jefmie\ starring Lee Remick. Frost won two Emmy Awards as host of \The David Frost Show\ and ·is a recipient of England's O.B.E. In addition to being a producer, interviewer, and author, he is a lecturer, publisher and impresario who has been called a one-man conglomerate.\ Woody Allen's May 18-20 $'1.25 Fri. 10 p.m. Sat. & Sun. 7,9& 11 p.m .. 55016

Pagefl OONCORDIENSIS, May 1.7, 1919 -,· FINAL EXAMIN C - - . . . ' fhird--Te. 19 (IMPORTANT: This exa~ schedUle is .Primarily for regular, \~ ''day'' undergraduate coutses. A separa,t~ schedule-for Graduate :Studies and Continuing Education course~ wilJ be annowlced, and students in ••Section 51 or 52'' courses should be alert for-the an- nouhcement of the exam um,e-for those courses, a_few o{ which are also included here.) .. Conflicts in examinations. should be re.ported tu Mrs. :ya,pidus in the Office of the Registrar notlat~r tnan Friday, June 1, 1979. Saturd~y. June 9 9:'00-.11:00 a.m. English 105--Literature of the Bible--Freund- .. OC German 11--Basic German i:I--Kellenter-·HU 114 Spanish 11--Basic Spanish II--Valdes--HU 116 Spanish 134-•The Spanish l,.anguage in Practical Use II Sec. 1--Ginsberg~-Hu 117 Sec. 2-·Vinick-·HU 117 Biology 12·-The Cell--Core III--Smith, Lambert--BU 204 Biology 166--Brain and Behavior-·Markiewicz.--PY 113 Chemistry 152--Physical Chemistry II--Hayes--N 222 Geology 11-·Historical Geology- .. Zimmerman--BU 100 Ma1hem.atics 41--Linear Algebra I S~c. 1-·David--BH 201 SEc. 2--Cole--BH 203· Mathematics 134--Differential Equations--Bick--BH 102 Physics 11--Introduction to Physics I (Biology, Science, Humanities & Social Science Majors)--Hall--SH lOS Psychology 10--A First Course in Psychology--Sec. 1--Huntley--PY 102 Psychology 166--Brain and Behavior--Markiewicz--PY 113 E.S. 10--Mechanics I Sec. 1--Ullman--SS 016 Sec: 2--Jewell--SS 016 E.S. 20--Mechanics Il--Panlilio--SH 100 C.E. 48--Structural .Steel Design--Pikul--BH 108 C.S. 12-·Introduction to Computer Programming (Science & Engineering Majors)--Goodheart--BU 109 Saturday, Jul\le 9 2:00-4:00 p.m. Economics 165--Seminar in International Trade and Finance-· Phaup--SS 117 . Htstory 126--America's Rise to\'World Power--Jonas--SS 113 Hebrew 12--Basic Hebrew III~-Heckelman--HU 112 Philsophy 47--Contemporary Marxist Thought--Rothermel--HU 11 \'I - Philosophy 82--Seminar in Major Philosophers--Taylor--au 110 Political Science 147--Law and Public Policy--Board--SS 115 Sociology 60--Methods of Social Research--Huggins, Weiner-·SS . 113 Statistics 110--lntroductiort to Statistical Methods--Delaney•-BB 1()2 Biology 36--Inve:rtebrate Zoology--Boyer--BH 108 M:athematics 12--Calculus II Sec. 1·-Gillette--BH 207 Sec. 2--Rice--BH 205 Sec. 3--dole--BH 203 M:athematics 14--Calculus III Sec. 1--Reynolds--BH 106 Sec. 2--Seiken--BH 201 Sec. 3-·Gillette--BH 104 · Psychology 41--Humanistic Psychology--Calabria--PY 113 P~ychology 67--Seminar in Human Development--Britain·-PY 204 P .sychology 68--Senior Seminar in Clinical Problems--Dowling·- . py 102 - E.S. 34--Systems Analysis--Jeweu::.Bu 106 Ccmpute:r Science 237--ComparaUve ·Computer Architecture·.:- Hannay--SH 101 · - Mon:day,.··Ju·n:e .11 ·9:·00-Jl:OO a.m:. Liberal Learning SO--Dilemmas of Physical ResQurces Aubrey--BU 204 Martin--BU 204 - Liberal Learning 82-~Sound and Music--Russ--BH 106 Comp. Lit. 44--Baroque, Enlightenment, and Romanticism-- Freund-·OG Classics 40--Greek and Roman Democracy--Reece--HU .019 Economics 10--Elementary Economics--Sec. 3•\Cullinan-·SS 112 Economics 158-\China! ·-Reynolds, r.J.'hurston--SS 117: English 109••Humanities III: E:irlightenment and ~Gmanticisrn-,. Freund·-OC Engllsh 159--Drama irom 1660 to 1900-·Bradish--HU 11'-1 English 171--Literature of the IriShHenaissance--Murphy--HU 116 History 75. 5 ·China! --Reynolds, Thurston..-SS 115 History 87--Science since 1800--Pat:tly--SS 010 History 188--The Holocau~t--Berk--SS 01.6 Literature in Translation 68-:.Ccntemporary France and Its Heritage--Roberts--HU 014 French 12--Basic French III--Le Clerc--HO 110 French 144--La Belle Epoque-~Thomas·-HU 112 Philosophy 21--.SymboUc L.ogic--Ludwig--HU 117 Political Science 151--American Fpreign Policy--Gati--SS 113 Political Science 185-\China!--Reynolds Thurston-~ss 115 Biology 13--Biology of Plants--Core II--Frohlich, Tobiessen--BH 207 Biology 130--Comparative Animal Physiology--Lambert--BE 201 Mathematics 30-·0rdinary Differential Equations--Sec. 2--Glenn-· BH 203 Pl).yelics 14:--Elemepts .of Modem Physics--Pilcher--N 222 Physics 44:--Introduction lo Astronomy--Titus--SH 106 Psychology 10·-A First Course in Psychology--Marklewicz--Sec. 3- ·PY 113 _. Psychology 20--Statistical Methods in Psychology-·Allen--PY 213 Psychology 24--Social Psychology--Downing--PY 102 E.S. 19•-Biomechanics·-Singham.--SH 101 C.S. 20--Intermediate Computer Programming--Hannay--BU·l09 Mo.-.day, June .11 2:00t~.4:00 p.q~. Liberal Learning 84·- Art and· Science in the Use of Mate:rials-- Eisenstadt-·SH 100 · Latin 12--Latin Reading--Ouellette--HU 112 Economics 11--Elementary Economics .. ~see. 3--Cullinan·-SS 112 Ecanomics 149--Contemporary Economic Issues--Kenney·-SS 113 Hist-ory 170--Cornmunism in Latin America--Bristol--SS 012 Italian 10--Basic Italian··Rawe--HU 115 .German 12--Basic German III--Eellenter--HU 114 (Jerman 139--Introducti-on to German Lyric Poetry·-Kellenter--HU 114 Philosophy 76-·Philosophy of Law--Baker--au llQ Biology .HJ4--Ethology--George-~BU 109 Geology 120--R~cent Sedimentary Environments--Zimmerman-· BU 201 . . Mathematics 21--Mathematical Methods for the Social Sciences II Sec. 1--!>avid--BH 203 · · · · Sec. 2--Reynolds--BH 1Q8 Physics 36·-Methods of Theoretical Physics--Qhanian~;sH 101 E.S. 22--Sclence of Engineering Materials--MUillo--BH 207 C.S. 2~5--Logical Design of Digital Computers--Gajjar--Bll 106 AI$-.. BH-. BU\ Htf- N--< Tu 9::'j Freshr in T:ra: Libera Classi< 117 ~ Econo: Econo: Econo ss 010 Eng lis 019 Eng lis Nelsm His tor Indep• Histor State His tor Spani: -Sec. Sec. Spani Ginsb Politi HU 1: Politi ss 11: Socio: Accm Sit H Biolo. Biolo Chen Chen Math Math BH1 Matb -BH. Phy~ Engi Phys Hum Psy( PY: Psyc Psyc E.S. E.S. E.E. 110 T ~ Hi: 11-l Ph St1 N< an A< Cl C1 0. p

\ CONCORDIENSIS,. May.1i, 19\19 Page 7 . - . I ON --SCHEDULE . . . ·- r 19-78-79 Examinations will be held.tn·tlla assigned rooms. Listed below is tbe code of !he buildings to be·\;l.se·d. OC-Old Chapel Aa-Arts ·Building · BH-Baile,y H~ll BU \-Butterfield Hall HtT....., Humap.tties Building PY --Psychology Laboratory SS-- Social Sciences Building SH--Stelnmetz Hall N ..... North Wihg-·Seien:ee-.mngr~ .. Center Tuesday, June 12 9:-00-1.1:00 a;.m . .... _ .. Freshman Elective 18~-Trad'Ltional Versus Modern Values-~J a pan tn Transition-:TJ:lursten--SS 113 - Liberal Learning 50--Special Topics In Geologi··Stone--BH 203 Classics 30-·Greek and Roman ,Drarna in Translation·-Reece-·HU 117 ~ ' Economics 10--:Iplementary Economics--Sec. 1-•Phaup--SS 012 Economics 131-·Microeconomi:c Analysls--Reynolds-·SS 117 Economics 133--Public Policy and American Industry--S.ehinidt-- SS 010 - . English ·164--Literature of the 'Romaatic Period I.I--Freund--HU 019 . - . English 118--Structure -of the· English Language: Lirtguistics-- Nelson--HU 11.5 · History 82--Africans South of the Sahar-a: The Colonial Period and Independence.-·Bristol--HU 110 History 122--American Constitutional and Legal History: The State and the 'Indii·v~idual--Allen--SS tl:5 . · · History 140-~The Second World War Era--Hansen---SS 016 Spanish 12~-Basic Spanish III . Sec. 1--Vinick--HU 114 Sec. 2--Valdes--HU 116 Spanish i31--Introduetion to Spanish-American Literature-- Ginsberg---HU 016 . Political Science 11--Contemporary American Politi.cs--Keeter-- HU 112 ~ Political Science 12--ContemporaTy Inti::~mational Politics--Gati-· ss 112 . Sociology 40--An Introduction to Demegraphy--Wells-'-SS 014 Accounting 111--Managerial Aspects_of Cost ~ceounting--Kauth-· SH 100 Biology 138--Hehnirtthology--Styles--BH 205 Biology 153--Advanced ,ncology·-'lb'biessen--BU 109 Chemistry·16--Inorganic Chemistry r--Weick··BU 106 Chemistry so--organic Chemistry 1~-sowa--BtT 100 Mathematics 10••Calculus 1--Fai-rchild--BH i06 Mathematics 18--Introductiofi\to Loglc. and :Set Theory --Zwicker-- BH 102 . Matl).ematics 30-·0rdinary Differential Equations~-see. 1--Taylor- ·BH 207 Phy.~ics '11--Introdu~tion to Physics .I {for Physica-l Science and Enigineering Majors)--Hall--BH 104 · Physics 13-·Introduction to Physies II (for\ Biology, Science, Humanities and Social Science Majors)--Newman~·SH 106 Psychology _10--A Frist Course in ~Psychology--Sec. 2--Downing~­ PY 213 Psychology 30--Personality--Nydegger--PY 113 ·, Psychology 31--Abnormal Psycholog;y--SpriJ:lg~PY 1~2 E.S. 21--Introductory Electric Cir()uits--Deallen\)ach-·N 116 E.S. 38--FlUtd Systems Analysis-·.Eetchum;;-BH 201 E .E. 33--Analysis and Design of Electroni~ Ci:retlits--Chang--SH 110 Tuesday, June 12~ 2:0.0-4:00 ·p.m. I - History 132·-Late Medieval and Renaissance Europe--Allen--SS 1U . , Philosophy 135--Philosophy in America-·Bynack--HU 112 Statistics 10-~Introduction to Statistics;•-Thirnm--BH 201 NOTE: Administration· and Management 131 examination tQ. be announced by instructor . , Accounting 10-·Fitfimcial Accounting·•Hurley--BH 207 Chemistry 10--Fundamental Chemistry I ' Sec. ·1-~Werner--:BU 204 Sec. 2--:Hayesm·BU 204 · Sec. a-~sowa--BU 204 Sec. 4·-Werner--BU 204 Chemistry 12-•Fund.amental Chemistry II Sec. 1--Schaefer--SS 016, Sec. 2--Mderson-•SS 016 · ' . Chemistry 40--Quantitattve Ohem.istty-•Schaefer--SS 016 Psychology 65·M~em1nar ~1--Douglas--PY 218 ' • ~ -. 1 ' Wednesd,ay, June 13 9:00-11:00 ·a.m. Freshman Electj.ve 65-·Introduction to Computer Programming-- Craig--BH 201 Freshman Elective 75·-The Biology of Sex--Lambert--SS 117 Economics 10-·Elernentary Economics--Sec. 2~·Wiese-·SS 115 Economics 139•-Public Finance--Cullinan--SS 112 English 156--Shakespeare after 1600--Murphy--HT:J 116 History 19-·Modem America: The New Deal and After--Jonas--SS 113 History 139·-Western Imperialism in the Nineteenth andTwentieth Century-~Ha'nsen-·SS 012 Chinese 12·-Basic Intensive Chinese III--Suen--HU 110 French 131--Women Writers of France--Le Clerc--HU 114 Russian 12--Basic Russian III--Jernakoff--HU 112 Philosophy 11-·Philosophical Classics--Patrik--HU 115 Biology 134-·Popula:tion Biology--Boyer-·BH 102 Mathematics 24-·Geometry--Fairchlld.·-BH 106 Mathematics 101--Advanced Calculus for Engineers--Glenn--BE 203 . Physics 48--0ur Physical Environment--Schick--SH 110 Psychology 35--0rganizational Psychology--Allen--PY 113 Psychology 38-~Developmental Psychology--Brltain--PY 102 Psychology 55--Seminar in Humanistic Psychology--Calabria--PY 213 - E.S. 24--Electric Circuits--Goodheart--BH 207 C.E. 50--Enviropt!)ental Engineering 11--Snow--BU 100 C.S.12--Introduction to Computer Programming (for Humanities and Social Science Majors)--Hannay--BU 109 C.S. 14:6--Data Structures--Goldbogen--N 116 Wed:nesday, June 13 ' 2:00-4:·00 p.m. Economics 11--Elementary Economics Sec. 1--P-rosper--SS 115 Sec. 2--Prosper--SS 115 Economics 142-\-Macroeconomic Theory and Policy--Kershner--SS 112 .Economics 148•-Introduction to Econometrics--Schmidt--SS 012 Economics 151-·Environmental Economics;--Kenney--HU 115 English 168--Contemporary British and American Poetry--Davis•- I!cr 112 History 74-·The History of Ch!Jlese and japanese Art--Thurston-- OC Spanish 140--Cervantes: Don Qui]ote-~Valdes--HU 117 Philosoph~ 45-:Aesthetics--Patrik--HU 110 Political Science 130--History of Political T~ought--Brown·-~S 117 Political Science 155--lntemational Security Affairs-·J ohnson--SS 113 Sociology 133- .. Personality and Social Systems--Kaplan--SS 101 Adminlstr.ation and Management 241--Systems Analysis and Simulation--Sec. 51--Yazici··BH 102 Biology 159-·Plant Physiology--Birecka--N 222 Mathematics 127•-Numerical Analysis--Rice--BH 203 Physics 1~·-lntroduction to Physics II( For Physical Science and Engineering Majors) Sec. 1·-Schwarz--BH 207 · Sec. 2·-Lichtenstein--SH 106 . Psychology 40--Seminar in Adolescence--Britain--PY 113 Psychology 60--S.eminar in Cognitive Psychology--Allen--PY 213 Psychology 66·-Seminar in Social Psychology--Downing-·PY 102 C.E. 20-·Land Measurements: Theory and Application--Male--BU 109 ~·I ...

'' ' '' '' '. ' Page 8 OONOORDIE.NSIS, May 17, 1919 Campus Maintenance ·Report Released Continued from page 1 visory skill through classes to· be developed .by the personnel office. , 6.) Review of the benefit package; especially the 'unlimited' sick leave portion, by the Personnel Office for enforcement by the sn·per- visors. 7.) Follow-through in disciplinary procedures. 8. ) Review of window eleanfug by contract. 9.) Personnel improvement through supervision, training, etc. 10.) Addition of energy com;ervation monitoring to .the · housekeeping function. In consideration of the Housekeeping. Program study and its _recommendations, the Middle States Committee on Maintenance concluded that Union's maintenance problems are not financial, but are per- sonnel~rooted instead. The committee concluded that \the current level of funding of PPD is adequate and that the major problem confronting PPD and the college is one of raising the efficie:ncy of cleaning, trades and grounds personnel.\ This conclusion, although based largely upon the findings of the Saratoga Associates' housekeeping review, is also premised on the results of a comparative statistical study in Which Union's maintenance program was contrasted with those of 27 other colleges and universities. The committee has evolved a set of nine \principles' which it feels \fQrrn the heart of the recommendations of the comrtli.ttee.\ In many ways these principles echo the rec ommenda ti ons for housekeeping program reform as put forth by the Saratoga Associates in their report of December, 1978. (see above) A summary of these principles, excerpted directly from the Preliminary Report of the Drafting Committee on General Campus Maintenance, are here quoted: - Principle No. 1: PER- FORMANCE PROGRAMS SHOULD BE ESTABLISHED FOR ALL BUILDINGS AND GROUNDS AND FOR ALL CLEANERS, CUSTODIANS AND CRAFT PERSONNEL. Performance programs .are detailed statements of activities tQ be accomplished for . the ongoing maintenance of a building or portion of the campus together with an estimate of the quantity of labor of a specified quality reqt1ired to accomplish such a program. .Detailed- Performance Stan- dards should be established .for- each building on ca.mpus. Special Performance Programs should be established for the college grounds. Emergency Performance Programs should. be established for contingencies (e.g., snowstorms, transformer problems, etc.). Special Per- formance, Programs shoUld be establishes for recesses and summer work. The ·general idea behind Perfo~ance Programs is to establish detailed plans and accountability in the operations of the physical plant departm~nt. These general performance programs should be assigned to cognizant custodians, cleaners, and general maintenance per· .sonnel. Note that accountabllity is achieved only when there is follow-up activity by super· visors, and this must. be dally. Accountability impr,oves. performance because em- ployees know that someone cares enough about their work to check on .performance. Principle No. 2: OPERATE IN A . PREVENTATIVE MANNER (WITHIN PER- FORMANCE PROGRAMS) TO PREVENT FURTHER DETERIORATION. The cleaner the environment the less ef.fort necessary . to. maintain it. This principle is effective for a number of reasons: First, it is easier to clean a relatively clean area. Those involved in cleaning and general maintenance activity are more highly motivated to ~eep an ~rea weJl maintained if /lt is 10 good condition. Track Continued from page 12 Chilton, rebounding from season-long injuries, will compete in the triple jump.· Though his outdoor season has been marred with a potpourri of assorted ailments, Chilton unquestionably possesses. the talent to be a · factor in this event. Earlier this year, at Princeton, he finished 9th in a National Indoor meet, against fierce competition. With the season concluded, Coach James reflected upon some of the ups and downs of the year. Amongst a long list .of bright spots was the expertise displayed by Scheuer, Chilton, and Blum, all three of whom qualified for the IC4A's and the Nationals. · Jalllles also noted that the freshmen--Bob Pavacic God 1 s Country Leather 185 jay street schenectady, n.y. 12305 (518) 374-5835 irwin freidet God Says You're The Best \ / MCil· oii\.AWi~ 8MAlj,~f~ 1 ORE • OCAT ··VAT • SAT Flexible Programs & Hours crher~ lS • differencefl't Albany Center l ~ JJ 1.63 .Delaware Ave. .,. N'Tl. Delmar nn P hone ( SlS) 439 ·Bl.46 EDUCATIONAL CENTER TEST PREPARATION , SPECIALISTS SINCE 1938. Outside N.V. State Only CAll TOLL FREE: 800·223·1182 . Centers In MaJor US Cities Toronto, Puerto Rico and Lugano, Switzerland Moreover, since this principle leads to a more stimulating .environment, it is more at- tractive to ~tudents, .faculty and staff, -who therefore contribute to its upkeep by their respect for it. This principle leads to the establishment of. shorte.r cleaning and maintenance cycles for areas of buUdings closer to the outside, since dirt travels! Principle No. 3: PAR· TICIPATION IN DEVELOP- MENT OF PERFO:&MANCE PROGRAM. Each employe.e of the PPD should be .asked to list all activities of a 'typical week, and estl.niate the time spent in each. acUvity. Supervisors should then review per- formance programs and negotiate improve11 . standards of tlfficlency and effectiveness until all activities al'e gradually covered adequately. Tbe em· phasis in these negotiation sessions should be upon better utilization of time, and every effort sbould be ~ade to remove any. punitive undertone. Poor performa~ce, bow ever' will be exposed dur·ing this process. PrinCiple NQ. 4: CAREFUL SELEC'J[ON PROCESS FOR MAINTENANCE PERSON- NEL, A good deal of effort should be s.pent in the selection of general maintenance per- sonnel. It ls the single greatest point of leverage over efficiency and .effectiveness. Given the security of employment at Union, maintenanre personnel tend tf) r.emain for long periods of time. Errors · made in selection are therefore very · se.rions. The committee bt!lieves emphasis in selection. should be given. to stable per• sons with good work habits who are likely to be happy at Union; and to continue in employment for a number of years. We believe these attributes are identifiable in work histories, recommendations, and per· sonal interview.s. This,. of co11rse, should be accomplished \'ithiil the guidelines of af- firmative action. Principle No. .S: SUPER- VISORS SHOULD BE SELECTED ON THE BASIS'OF TH>EIR LEADERSHIP AND · INTERPERSONAL QUALI- TIES RATHER . THAN PURELY ON A VOCATIONAL BASIS, The · present organization of PPI,) has too few • supervisors and inadequate _supervision. The committee ~lieves that leadership at the first level of management mJist be. identified and . develo~d ra,pidly fo.r PPD. For housekeeping chores, the span of supervision {i.e., the number of subordinates a superior-can manage) ·~an be lD plus, given a very repetitive nature of the - activities, whereas tbe span of supervision over general maintenance personnel should be somewhat lower given the great-er discretion required m the performance and~ super- visionof these tas}is. Supervisors should be leaders, self~starters, and have good work habits. Tbey should assign work w,eekly and follow•up oil programs to point out .strengtlts and weaknesses. Principle No. 6: INa Continued on page 9 Preceptor ia-l·s Discu.ssed · Continued f.rom page 3 \' dergraduates. Grad-uate (!ourses are listed by title only; complete descriptions are available in the departmental offices. Professor Warde asked for EPC's endorsement of .this proposal. Discussion centered around the w:ord \normally\ in the sentence, \Courses at the 300-level ar.e normally closed to - undergrad~ates,\ fmmd in the fourth paragraph of the proposal. It was felt by the committee that 300~1evel courses should be closed to undergraduates, and so the word \normally\ should be stricken froin the sentence. Informal endorsement of the- rest of the proposal was agreed upon by the EPC ,with the ex- clusion of the word \normally\. I Season. (shotput and discus) and Btad Kline (hammer-throw)-\were coming, along.\ The team is beginning to make tremendous strides toward becoming more well-rounded, for it now has competitors in all events. _ Other ·bright spots in tl),e season ineluded Dave Cozzens' comeback bid, Jim Zalucki's outstanding jumping, and Marc Nazon's impressive 5th place finish at the States. The team did not complete the season without problems, fhowever, the two major ones of which were an overabundance of injuries and poor facilities. As Coach James related, \most every time it seemed we were going to get rolling in the nght direction, we were levelled by a key injury.\ Througbo~t the course of the , season numerous trackmen were hurt-Cozzens, Eberly, and Chilton, to name a few. Far worse than injuries, the. team was forced to play par- ticipate in away track meets due to the lack of on campus facilities .. This problem was twofold, for the team could not practice at home, and had to give up the home Jearn ad- vantage throughout the outdoor season. . James- did ·O.p- timistically add, however, that he \feels sure that these problems will be' remedied ' soon.\ · · All to'ld, he was quite happy with the work of the team and added that \ne?Ct year will see a better-rounded team . . . the prospects *are good.\ ' · Academic Advising: The last item discussed was tl:lat of academic advising. Andrew Mitchell, chairman of the subcommittee on academic advising, .offered two proposals. The first was: an advising handbook for faculty advisors be prepared by the Dean of Faculty's Office. This hand· book, to be published next year according to .the proposal, would include information useful to faculty advisors, EPC endorsed this .proposaL ' The second proposal was that a seminar be set up in {he form of a division meeting, for faculty advisors to discuss problems in .advising. Dean Brownlee inditated that this idea of division meetings may not be the best mechanism to achieve better advising. She suggested. instead that EPC encourage workshops to be held for this · purpose,. leaving the details to the Dean of Faculty's Office. Presently; the area:. of academic advising is under the responsibility of the Associate Dean of Faculty's Office. Mitchell feels that a new post shou~d be created which could· focus more directly on the academic advising program. No action was taken on this proposal. The next meeting of EPC will be Friday, May 17, in the Dean ,....._..,. 'V....,.'V....,.'V....,. ~~ Forever Young Uair Design 7 41 Eastern Avenue· <short walk from College) • of Faculty's conference room. • All are invited and welcome to attend. 1. 382-8490 Specialist-in Precision Cuts for Women & Men Henna, Perms, Frost, Color :CoHee- Reason-able Rates Open Tues.- Sat. FleKible Hours Call Now For Your Spring Style! Many to·Choose From. -\' .... ...... ~ ~ . ~ Tri-City Luggage & Rep~ir A Complet~ Line-Of Nationally Advertised Luggage From a Trunk to a Tote ' - . ............. _-JI.,j...,to-1 - A Fu II Line of Gifts & Jewelry for Men & Women BriefCases-Bill. .Folds-Key Cases Ask About OOr Discount EXPERT REPAIRS ON ALL B. RANDS OF LUGGAGE Authorized Repair Service For Most Airlines 869-9221 Open Mon. ttJruSat .. 9tll9 1645Central Ave. (COlonie) Closed Sundays 1 Mile West of Colonie Center' House This Friday evening, M~y 18, at 8:30 . p.m. the UNION COLLEGE COFFEEHOUSE is proud to present JIM 6IGNESS. Jim is a folk guitarist-singer from the Capital Distric\ area who performs a regular stint at the Shipyard in Colonie every WednE)sday evening. Jhn has a large repertoire of popular and traditional folk songs, as well as many of his own authorship. So come and join us this Friday evening for ~good music, good food and good times. Remember, only $1.00 will entitl., you to all the coffee, donuts, teas, lemonade and Irish Coffee You can con- . '\Tht'·8s·o · th some.. . . a s ~ p.m. m e Old Chapel: See you there!! - 3 · El ~au.LL·. Students .all those 1 ortakea.h end of Sp1 out ~ witl Dean of BEFORE TERM. N nonpaynu: does not. withdrawt unsureo£· should cm students.· 1-or failt that dat• forfeiture due date results in of tuition (See cata Attenti students Prof. Bitl by studer return t< TuesdaY' 21, 22, a: may picl Arts Bui ween 1:3 Order 1 1983! p Deadline Marra ir outer lob and May LAST CHANC:E your lf!S1 1979Unic for seni ~eryonE Student !Order Y4l sorry .ff Save Monday, Saver r4l 10 a.m.; Flights 385-4575 6). Call Is thE Beta G band p: 10:30 p. tainmer \Strut.' be ava thirst. ~ Want Capri. : PLA< Airb poratiCJ port, Alban~ new 1 Repre Traine Stock porati< forwar will b petu~1 achie~ direct li T c ... HO Phn Sa1 sat

y d 9 g. of of ar b.is to of to 18, is . at as a and will and con· the ! I OONOOBDl~NSIS_, M.ay 17, 19'19 - classifieDs Page 9 programs. Students can be used effectively in an expanded role fsu.ttETIN·· BOARD . · existing and new accounts in the Neck, NY, is .seeking vario~ Albany district. Please stop hy backgrounds to work in their · of painting (indoors and out- doors), window washing, lawn and garden keeping, and snow removal. Students might also. be Placell)ent for further in- younger and older progra~s. Students are reminded that all those plamdng. to withdraw or take a. leave of absence at the end of Spring Term should fill out a withdrQwat fonn in the Dean of Students Office BEFORE THE END OF THE TERM. Non~preregistration or nonpayment of Fall Term bills does not. constitute notice of withdrawal. Students who \B.re Wlsure o£ their plans for thefaU should consult with the D~n of Students. Withdrawal after ~uly 1-or failure to preregister by that date.,.results in ' deposit forfeiture~ Withdrawal after the due date ·Of FaU Term bills results in significant forfeitures of tuition, room tent and ;fees. (See catalog.) formation. Reswnes should be . These peQple have · vaned .. mailed to District Manager, T. · handicapped conditions. Pe;· . Michael Morrissey, Airborne sons should have interest lli . Freight Corporation, Albany social work, psychology, s~cial County Airport, Albany, N.Y. education, pre-medical, speech 12211. · · therapy, movement therapy, The First Few Steps, Iuc., ·61 · • art therapy, et al. '.l)tey have Harvard Street, Worcester, vacancies for B'eginning Mass. 01008 is a private, non· • Counselors, Counselors, profit organiZation which . ~ Experienced C<Junselor Group provides residential-educati• · Leaders, Assistant Unit I{eads, onal services for menta:Hy · · llnit Heads. If you are in· retarded citizens in Worcester, . terested, please .stop- by Mass. They are seeking Placement for further in- Residential Counselors. We •, formation. 'pave further information in , Ford Motor Company, Green Congratulations--Lynda, Gretchen, Pam, Carolyn, Georgene, Roseann and Ronda, new officers of the· Women's · Glee Club!! ! Come to ·Coffeehouse this Friday, May 17 to hear folk· guitarist Jim Bigness .. That's 8:30 PM in the Old Chapel. Be there!!! · Why does it only rain on 1068 Wendell, and not the rest of the world? . used to enforce parkmg regulations, thus freeing Safety and Security for more vital tasks. If structured according to the principles containet! in tbis .reportt with 1 effective super· vision, the committee believes tbe use of students will not only IDJ.prove tbe appearance of the campus but increase pride in and · identification with the · campus so a.s to reduce destruction and the subsequent need for maiDtenance. Attention to all former students of Prof. Bittleman: Placement. Island, N.Y., is .seeking a Cheeks and Nates-isn't the • front'porch rather public??? Carmody & i..or,ance, 37 MeChanical Engineer to wor.k Lev~nworth St., P.O. Box 1110, with Heat Transfer. If you are M. i Waterbury, Conn. 06720 is •. interested, please .call Lou . . a· nte.nance • • • seeking someone with paralegal Verdile on (518) 273-6430. Continued from page 8 background and who can do Farmers & Tnders Life ··. TEGRATE THE MAIN~ estate and J;rust tax. Please Insurance Co ..• 960 James St., · TENANCE OPERATION WITH contact Diana Leyden on (203) Syracuse, N.Y. 13201, is seeking THE SECURITY OPERATION. Prof. Bittleman has work done by students which he wishes to return to them. On Monday, Tuesday-.and Wednesday, May 21, 22, and. 23, thes~ students may pick up their work from Arts Building Room 107, bet- ween 1:30 and 3:30p.m. 953-1521. an Actuariai Assistant who The conunittee believes that the , - Gilead llot~se., Inc., a menta:l should be project oriented, or;ganizational integratipn of health halfway~ouse fo)lDded !n. basic actuarial training in in- PPD with (Security andSafety) Order now Freshman Reeord 1983! Price--$5, hardcover. Deadline--May 31. See Mrs. Marra in Student Activities or outer lobby of C~rnegie, May 17 and May 18. LAST 'CHANCE!! LAST CHANCE!! Friday, May 25 is your last chance to order your 1979 Union Book. The price is $5 for seniors and only $8 for C¥eryone else. So go· to the Student Activities TODAY and 10rder your yearbook-you'~ be sorry .ff ymVdon't. Save $85 to West Coast. . Monday, June lfl..-$150 (1/a Super· . Saver round trip). Dep. Albany, · 10 a.m.; arr. S.F ., 5 p.m. ( AA Flights 109, 512). Call Ernie, 3R54575 (8•5) or 399-4320 (after 6). Call now! Is there any partying . after Beta Grain? Come to SDT's band party this Friday from 10:30 p.m. to 2:30 a.m. Enter- tainment will be provided by \Strut.\ Plenty of cold beer will be available to quench your thirst. See you behind SDT! Mercury 1961f,. seeks a Dtrector to begm . dividual cover@ge,. some~proj~ct ss will provide organizational employment August 15, 1979. product development, fmanct~l efficiencies that, when com- The Director's position 4 . is statements, pension ad- - bined with other recom• normally for one year, ·.t<~or ministration. Should have BS- mendatlons contained in this further information stop by ' Math or Math could be a minor. report, wlll increase the efs Placement. Should have a strong math fectiveness of SS in reversing Tools Project, lnc., 674 aptitude. Contact Mr. Richard the disturbing trend of van-· Columbia Turnpike, East Moroney · by mailing your dallsm on campus. Vandalism Greenbush, N.Y., i$ seeki.Rg an .resume. ' cr .. eates work orders. The Assistant/ DireQtOr for Drug For permanent ·and summer . committee believes that van· Treatment-Mental Health jobs and internships, check with dalism could be reduced Clinic for adolescents to provide Placement. significantly if, in addition to positive mail role model for .. the reorganization of PPD and youth counseling, crisis~ in- Justfor .Jun;ors SS: tervention, administration, The Office of Placement ·and a.) maintenance operations p.rogram development. Career Resour.cesis planning a were conducted on a two-shift Volunteer experience helpful. session for J'uniors only to en- basis and b.) security officers Please contact Emily Tate on · d should be accountable for _ 477-9134 for further information. courage them to get starte on vandalism within their BS or. BA, - Psychology, their plans for next year. designated areas, on .. · their If you have questions Sociology, or hiberal Arts regarding· what you could be designated shifts. College of· majors. bo d · th ficials should not hesitate to L ehn& Fink Products Group, thinking a utor Ol!lg over .. e involve local ·poUce whenever summer and during next year, Sterling Drug, Inc., Montyale, come to PCR for answers: prudent so as to illustrate their NJ, is seeking candidates in Tuesday, May 29 attitude concerning vandalism. their sophomore or junior years PCR If the college administration is · t · 4 : 00 p~m. at bi 1 :~~. '\\ d d t t1 majoring in a compu er. sc1~nce -How do 1 get started? am va en, wwar e ec on curriculum for vacancies m a --Can 1 interview during and prosecution of vandals, - formalized Data Processing summer with companies and vandalism is sure to increase. Summer Intern Program. For schools? - · Principle No. 7: THE further information stop by. the -Which graduate schools visit COLLEGE ADMINISTRATION Placement Office. , Union? SHOULD RAISE THE k PROFESSIONAL STATUS OF Bendix Corporation, 'Elec- -What tests do 1 need to ta e THE PPD. The activities of the trical Components Division, for specific programs? PPD should be viewed as blgbly S .dn N y · king an --What fellowships are 1 . ey, . ., IS see . d pr.ofessional by college officials Associate Programmer for available for post gra uate and · essential to the college's on. the-job, rotational . ~ssign- study? mission. The committee is ments. Equipment: IBM to Meg -What organizations recruit convinced that a .more positions of real ~ore with 8 M~g on campus? · 1 7 professional atmosphere in the of virtual core. Would be m- -How can PCR he P me. PPD would raise motivation Changes ••• I Continued. from page 1 sideration is a plan where the College will op~rate West .. College, in addition to Hale House and the Dutch Hollow Pub which are currently operated .by the College. . The final decision will be . made. at the end of the term, depending upon student evaluation, of ,~e · quality of the food serv1ce. . . When asked if spec1f1c locations in Carnegie Hall had been suggested for the Dean of Students and Residence ·Life Offices, he responded that there had not been any as of yet and that the method to decide this lould be to ''sit down with the College Center Committee and decide where to locate these offices.\ · When asked how definite the changed indicated in the report were Kellett responded that ''Ba;ically. at this point it is 95 percent sure\ but that \before implementation the ;}ght personnel bad to be found. He added that, \if ,campus. com• ment says tbat we should ~o something different then I will be happy to discuss chan~es again . with the Student Life Committee.\ . Area Calendar ••• Continued .from page 10 Wanted: F()rd Capri. 346-3862. volved in programming all PlEASE COME TO PCR TO and work standards, and in· arllas of business applications, SIGN UP NOW!! crease, the identification of the, responsible for coding, testing · · staff with the central mission of perform at l-p 1 m., 2:30p.m. and 4 p.m. respectively. At 8 p.m. a CONTRA DANCE will be held at' St.- Mark's Community Center, Guilderland Center. At the same location Monday, May 21 at 8 p.m. will be \TO WELCOME IN THE SPRING/' a concert ofcarols and songs for the season of rebirth,, with John Roberts, Tony. Barrand, Fred Breunig and Steve Woodruff. Tickets for the events are available by mail from Old Songs Inc., PO Box 197, Guilderland Center. For more information, call 765-4193. and release of programs, and the college. Top college officials work with Systems Analyst ROOMS'ROOMMA TES should be intimately involved in PLACEMENT I Bendix Corporation is also the directioll and control of the Airbprne - Freight Cor- seeking an Associate Sa~ebs Summer Sublet for 3 or 4 activities of the PPD. poration, Albany County Air- Engineer, for on the l 0 people, fully furnished, half Prlaciple No. 8: Permissive port, New Cargo Building, rotational assignments. . block from campus. Call Bob at attitudes have not only led to Albany, New York 12211 has a E:mployee would be negotiating 377-6360. destruction within dormitories, new position for a Sales with customers in the Tech. thus Increasing work orders, Representative-Management Eng. areas, coordina~ing in- 3 or 4 bedroom apt. still but have had demoralizing Trainee. Airborn is a New York coming orders, forecastmg, and available for next year. Close, effects upon the maintenance Stock Exchange-listed cor- interface with internal offices on Ave. A. Call Mrs. Clark at and housekeeping .staffs. The poration and a leader in the air pertaining .to . customer 377-9091 eves. after 6 and institution of fines for forwarding industry. Individual requirements for pr~duct weekends. destruction, increased sur- will be responsible for per• design. Literature is avatlable .veillance by student Resident petuf\ting their . record in the Placement Office.- Female roommate for '79-'80 Advisors, and procedures wllich achievement of growth by Samuel Field YM-YWHA school year. Ap;:~rtment close to prohibit registration untn fines directly dealing with both Summer Day Pro~ram, Little campus. C~ll 37.0-6752. · are paid, are viewed by the ,;;:.=:::...-=.=~:.....:.:..:.:.::::.......:....:...:._.:.._ ___ __._:.,__~--- Committee as basically healthy. Assessment of fines to all' members of a ftoor for ·destruction whhich cannot be Dutch Hollow Fub · Looking tu sublet apartment for this summer .. · . Call Sue, 6619. ' Phom• 1!!1B1 J10 605.0 370fi()fo1 Finally, what you've all been waiting for! Tuesday, Mav 22 9 p.m. - 1. a.m. LOST & FOUND • traced to its ultimate source does not appeal to the com- . mlttee since it penalizes the innocent and creates a casual c. attitude toward destruction; it May 24.·-the JAZZ PER- FOR¥ER will be the subject of the next meeting of the not-for- profit CAPITAL DISTRICT JAZZ SOCIETY. Guest Speaker will be Troy resident . Nick Brignola, a multi-faceted reed man who bas received in- ternational acclaim. The · meeting will be held in the community room of. the National Commercial Bank and Trust Company, Sta'r · Plaz~., Intersection of Routes 20 and 155, Guilderland, on Thursday at 8 p.m. As always, the event is free and open to the .public. There will be music and refreshments. For more in- formation call· Bruce S. Tan- nenbaum at 371-3688, after 6 p.m. The Pub's 4fh Annual Jack Daniels Night· prizes, gifts, etc. 75 cents Shots A Good Time For All!! Note· due to t~e dam~ake, the l='ub wHI be closed this Saturday fr~m 11: 30'·6: 00. We will open at 6:·00 for cold sandwl.ches and burgers~ . ... . ~--~~~~~~~~--~~~ ' ,. t ' ·. ,.1. ~~. . /;1 \ -tt;>\' - .... ' . Ji.. ' , \. · LOST: A brand nevv 16 mm. movieprojector. Taken fromSS 016.AnyQnewith anyknowledge about it please call Lou at 372- 5713. Reward being offered. LOST:~A blue birthstone ring- -reward-call Diane 376-6~. FOUND:. In F.o~-Davidson I parking lot; one gold bracelet. can 61)90 if you want it back. . .. ,. · may, in fact, be illegal. . . Principle No. 9.: A PER· MANEN.T' STUDENT BRIGADE .SHOULD BE ASSEMBLED FOR PAIN- TING, GROUNDS KEEPING, . SNOW REMOVAL, AND SECURITY. A permanent work·ff)rce organized by the Dean of Students under the general supetvtsion of PPD to ·operate 12 m~ntbs a year under specified detaned performance NATURE May 19--lnterested people may watch a BIRD BANDING of warblers and spring migrants performed by Bob Yunick on saturday, May 19, 7 a.m. Here is an opportunity to see birds in hand. Meet at the _Visscher Ferry Game iVI:anagement .Area entrance. Criorclinator is Lois Norton, 235· 0978. • >

,_,_. Page 10 OONOORDIE:NSIS, May 17, 1919 ------ArQ.un.d Campus---• ---- 4/;.\&s >·~ f, \:: ' .:7\''- .. ~~~W> -4 ~ '-, _building.'' Whipple was the first perso_n to correctly analyze the stresses in bridge truss designs, andis best known for his: book-A Work on Bridge Building, published in 1847, which helped change bridge-building from an art to a science. · campus the week of Ma¥ 7; the truss bridge win be erected tbe week of May 28; a wooden deck · · will be installed the week of June 4; and a ribbon-cutting (!eremony for the completed bridge will be held the week Qf June 11. The Johnstown bridge ·is one of five Whipple truss bridges known to e~dst. in Eastern New York. The others are in Fonda, Claverack, and over the Nor- manskiU. near the city of Albany. ThE:! Johnstown bridge - had been studied by rivil engineering students at Union in past years because .of .its historical importance, and was considered the best choice for restoration. Interest in the restoration As a pedestrhm bridge, the Wnipple Truss Brldge win become an in:tegral part of the coll~g~s campus· . pla·n, ac- .cordmg to campus planner Jack Litynski. Ein·stein- Banesh Hoffmann, an E:in· stein collaborator and biographer' will talk aboat ''Albe~:t Einstein: Glimpses of the Man and his. Work\ on Th~rs~bi.y, May 24. Stone Boat Cl.u_bbers: Soggy but victQ,J;ious . project Cl!me from 'a group of three civil engineering seniors- Ralph Shirts, John Testa; and · Bill Wade. Two of them··Shirts and Testa-are coordinating th~­ restoration .project this spring as an independent ·study project · under Uie supervision of Richard Pikul, visiting lecturer in civil engineering. His lecture, U11ion 's con, tribution to this· year's celebration . of the lOOth an. niversary of Einstein's birth, is sponsored by the. physics department, Sigma Xi,. and Phi Beta Kappa. The lecture starts at 9 p.m. in Room 016., 'Social Sciences- building, and the public is invited. Concrete Winner Union's Stone Boat Club paddled to victory in two con- crete canoes on May 5th and 6th at the \West Point Open Con- crete Canoe Races,\ .one of a series of competitions spon- sored by the American Concrete Institute and the American Association of Civil Engineers. Course requests are due at the Office of the Registrar not later than Monday, May 28th. A ten dollar ($10.00) late fee \\·ill be assessed thereafter. Senior Sail Whipple Bridge A bridge which stood in relative obscutity over ,the. Cayadutta Creek in Johnstown has been dismantled by Union College civil engineering students and brought to campus for reconstruction as- a It's that time of the year _ )listoricallandmark. again for the seniors to get The bridge is of a type together and celebrate four patented by its engineer in- years of . being together. The ventor, Squire Whipple, who Senior Fling will be held on was a Union alumnus (Class of Thursday, June 14 with a dinner 1830) and is considered to be Some 18 otber engineering students also will get involved in coming- :months. The work will become. a laboratory project for their class in structural steel design, and as stich has-been awarded a $11,SOO -grant from the col1ege•·s fnterrtal Education Foundation. The entire ·restoration proJess will allow the students to examin,e Whipple's theories. in practice.. _ _ The bridge was dismantled the weekend of April 21 and 22. According· to ~the established timetable, concrete will be placed and a bridge ramp built at the new -site across Hans - Groot Kill. near Achilles Rink on In his talk on May 24, HQff. mann says, he will eJq~lain why ·:<.great science transcends logic and is one of the creative arts.\ He will talk about Einstein's early .strugg}es and some of his scientific ideas, including_ ttur derivation of E equals mc2 and \those-ideas whiCh exemplify the artistic nature of science.\ 'Tbe explanations will be ~presented without the use ·of mathematics.. The lJ nion team took three first place awards-in the men's division, faculty division, and mixed men's and women's division-and second place in the women's division. Eight teams competed, including West Point, Cornell, the University of -Buffalo, and the University of Maine. at the Queensbury Hotel in \the father of scientific bridge Area- Calendar Glens Falls followed by a Senior Sail on Lake George on the paddlewheeler ''Ticonderoga.'' Before dinner there will be a cocktail hour (cash bar) from 5- 6 p.m. Dinner will be at 6p.m. at the beautiful Queensbury Hotel approximately 20 minutes from Lake George. The sail will begin at .8:30 p.m. with plenty of drinking, music, and dancing under a moonlit sky. Buses will be provided from Union College to the Hotel and lake- and back again. Tickets will go on \sail\ starting Monday, May 21 in the The Stone Boat Club started building its 1979-model canoe during the fall. \The actual construction of the canoe took about a month,\ said Mark Ingalls, a junior who is president of the club. The canoe had its first test run-in the Mohawk River-only two days before the race. · Weighit:~g in somewhere around 100 pounds, the canoe is 23 feet long, has a maximum width of 32 inches and maximum depth of 12 inc:;hes. It's about five feet longer and weighs 30 pounds less than last year's.· model \and has much sleeker lines,'' Ingalls said. ''Toe design is much better.'' This is the fourth year Union has participated in concrete canoe races, which are spon- sored,. in ·part to show that concrete is more versatile than ' Student Activities Office. You must .pay when you sign up. The price is not definite as of yet, but will be determined soon. To finish off the fling there will be activities planned for Friday, June 15. Details will follow soon. Get ready to party away your last few days here at dear ole Union! most people think. ~-I F c Pre- Register Preregistration materials for fall term 1979-80 will be available at the Office of the Registrar, ·· Room 2, Administration au·Hding, beginning Monday, May 21st. Students are urged to promptly secure their coPY of these materials. Students who do not plan to return to Union for the fall ~erm, except for graduating seniors, must immediately give notice of their plans to the Office of the Dean of Students. Students should confer with Faculty Advisers during the week of May 21-25. SontE} departments may announce special arrangements for ad- vising. Please be alert for such announcements. Officers- At a recent meeting of the . IFC, the following new officers were elected for the ·term ~ running _from Spring term 1979 through Spring term 1980. Andy Audet, a brother: at Beta The~a Pi, (boX' 647, phone 382-866:t}, was elected as President, The · new Vice-President is Tom Sheahan (box 519 1 phone . 382- 9159~ who is a Delta Phi brother. Chuck Dexter was elected Secretary .. He is a member of the-Phi Sigma Kappa fraternity (box 1454, phone 370-6679') .. And lastly, . a Fiji brother, Harry ' Adamakos {box 620;. phone 372- 0172) was elected as Treasurer. Good luck to these new offieers of the IFC: . CULTURE May 19-·The Niskayuna Historical Society will welcome the. public to their OPEN HOUSE at the old train station off Rosendale Road, near the Colonie town line between the Mohawk River and the Bike· Hike Trail. The station will be open from 1-4 PM on two con- secutive weekends, May 19, 20, 26, and 27. '~:here, will be a c.rontinuous showing of six slide- tape shows developed by the Outreach Program of the Schenectady County Historical Society, headed by Becky Watrous. They include an up- dated verSion of ''The History of the Niskayuna Train Station\; \History of the Erie Canal\ with songs and narration by Sandy Shoor; \19th Century Agricultural in Schenectady County•• by historian Warren Liddle; \Portrait of a Dutch Homestead--The Mabie House'\; \Broom Corn in Schnectady · County\; and \Trolleys May 19-20-All Students are cordially invited to th~ fifth annual FESTIVAL OF- NATIONS to be held on the grounds of the Schenectady Museum on Saturday, May · 19, 1979 from 10:00 a.m. to6:00 p.m. with a rain date·of May 20, 1979. . Twenty•two nation,S Will be represented by flags, pavilions, and ethnic food, song, and dance of the native region. Last . year over 12,000 people attended this gala :rn:ulti•national event. Tickets are on sale at the museum. All the Carl Company outlets and t~e Boston .Store in the Mohawk also will be selling tickets. Tourists are en- couraged to buy their tickets ahead to avoid the long waiting lines the day of the festival. DANCE May 19-20-·EBA Con- temporary Dance Theat·re. will present a collection of its finest works in a series of per- . formances entitled \Best of tbe Year\ on May 19 at 8:00_p.m., May 20 at 3:00p.m., June 1 and 2 at 8:00p.m., and June 3 at3:00 p.m. at the EBA Chapter House Theatre, 351 Hudson Ave. in Albany. Works include \Background Music'', \Spectrum\, \24 Hour Watch\ \Traveling\ and the premiere of ''Frisbee''. Tickets are available at EBA and the Colonie Center C_ommunity Box· Office .. For information or reservations call 465-9916: HOME May 22-0n Tuesday, May 22 from 7 to .9 p.m., Mayfair Home Furnishings, Wolf Road, Colonie, · will host an oecasion not to be missed by the bride•to· be and her party, the· annual Ma,yfair .Bridal and Home Furnishings Open House. Mayfair has . prep-ared a .program on a variety of sub- 'jects important to the new bride including: demonstrations and infonnation on choosing and coordinating china, crystat·and silver, cooking with the Cutsinart food processor, ap- preciating and serving wiile, decorating on a budget and more. There will be a display of bridal fashions by M. Solomon, door prizes, strawberries and champagne-for all. Of special note: .. Ms .. Jewel White, special coordinator 9f Store Promotion informed in the making of Waterf()rd Crystal. Endowed - with a charming personality and casual manne~ she is a delight to meet. For reser- v~tions or more informati<m, call Mayfair 45~-7080 ext. 5(). LECTURE May·14-A forum designed to collect information from members of the nealth com- munity concerning major health issues related .to the presence of toxic .substances in the region wm be held May 14. The forum is funded by the Environmental Protection Agency. It :will be held on · Monday night 7:30~9:30 at the Pine Grove United Methodist Church, ~1580 Central Avenue, Albany. Speakers will be Walter Hang, Staff Scientist, New York Public Interest Research Group and .Leo: Hetling, Director, Division of Elnvironme11tal Health, NYS Department of Health, Albany. Conducted hy: Health Systems. A,gency of Northeastern New York, lnc., Al-bany County Subarea Council 1 445..()51}. MUSIC · activities for Waterford Cyrstal and Aynsley Bone China, Will be . on hand to demonstrate the use, and care of Waterford and Aynsley. Ms. White has visited Waterford, Irel~nd and is well May 20-21-With the memorY of winter just now fading, there's no better cause for jubilation than the full blossoming of spring. Old Songs Inc. offers a chance to celebrate this season of renewal in a traditional manner, with a full range of activities. The- village greens· of Alt~mont, Voorheesville and Guilderland Center will take on a festive air Sunday, May . 20. when the MARLBORO MORRIS TEAMS of Marlboro., Vermont will Continued on page 9 Ch )3ruc ·profess' invited Schoiar the Pe< (CSCPJ of ,econ Octo bel Reyn B.A. fr and Ph . from Michig• Ct.tina' econorr a merr since 1 The Social~ the del five e: sponso1 Reyno I terdisc special econon produ< inJe.rll compa China': man i Benjar Econm Penns~ CSCJ an ex.c Scient As sod Repub This progr; sidera1 chang schola bilater and • Ameri for a· res ear In rE five C comm visits delegCJ remot, sourcE mech; scienc deleg, Chine: Sci en< The China pub lis returr Le 113 Ma1 mam Colu Grad1 and Malu spea~ 17 in His theA Sta of a by Adn Mari~ thee leadl jourJ num' techt Th• Ch tady · scho, offic, Cour In nam 191>1

s \ 's \ of of a er- to jor the I • 14. the on the of iby: of for full a full air the will 9 CJONOORDIENSJS, May 17, 1979 Page 11 Around Cam·pus C .. h. • . r· . majored in history and who was school which contributed so Schenectady on Wednesday the Zolner by the Union College ... · . . tn a ·, · 0 u r a football lineman in COlltlg~, much to .the vigor of tWentieth 6th of June, 6:30 , p.m. The ·student Body in appreciation Abba hM been extensively c e n t u r y Am e r i c a n regular toastmasters :pregram for his efforts in makillg Union a ]3ruce Reynolds, assistant professor of economics has been invited by the Committee on Scholarly CommuniCation with the People'·s Republic of China (CSCPRC) to join a delegation of ,economists visiting China in October. , Reynolds, woo received his B.A. from Yale and his M.A. and Ph.D .. degrees in econ<)mios from the University of Michigan, is a ' specialist in Cl:lina's economy . and in economic planning. He has been a member of Union's faculty since 1974. The Chinese Academy '-of Social Sciences will play host to the delegation, which is one of five exchange groups to be sponsored by the CSCPRC. Reynold's delegation is an in· terdisciplinary group of ten specialists in the fields of economic theory, development, productivity, econometrics, internCilional ec.onomics, comparative economics, and - China's economy. The chair· man is Lawrence R. Klein, Benjamin Franklin Professor of Economics at the University of Pennsylvania. · CSCPRC has been conducting an ex-change program with the Scientific and Technical Asso.ciation of 1 the Peo·ple's Republic of China since 1972. This year the committee's · program expanded con· siderably to include an ex- change of senior research scholars and lecturers, two bilateral scientific sy.l)1posia, and a visit to China by American students and scholars for advanced training and research. inv<Jlved in college affairs in mathematics. He is known as of impromptu and prepared Union of People. past years. He has been the the origina~or of the concept speeches will be expanded to The Frank Baily Prize, which council's liaison representative - (central to modern set theory) incJude games and contests for is awarded to the senior \who on athletics, ·reporting ·on of a measurable cardinal, did everyone in attendance. The has rendered the greatest athletic programs and ac- early work in the computer public is invited, guests are service to the college in uny tivities. field, and was the co-author of welcome and new members are · field'' went to Steve Richards, ~e 11ew president 9f .. the the papev that was the basis for being sought. Mohawk Toast- President of the Student Forwn. Unum ColJege Council is Craig the construction of the hydrogen masters was founded June lOfh The Joseph Daggett Prize, Lyons, of New Canaa:n, Con- bomb, l974.SchenectadyMayor Frank . given to .a senior \for conduct necHcut, a 1962 graduate who is Advanced undergra,duates Duci was the founding and ·character, witllout respect v,ice-president · of Hobart· and all interested members of dignitary. Active charter to scholarship,\ was awar.ded to Mcintosh Paper Company, New the ·community are invited to members include Mr. Ed Kev.in C. Scheuer. York City. · attend. Detailed schedUles and Gadoua of Scotia,- Mr' .• Jim Peter Marrs won the Horatio Lyons· succeeds Francis registration material are ~urlong of Delmar aJld Mr. Bob G. Warner Prize as the \senior Taormina, _ principal of available from G.eorg.e LaBounty of Niskayuna. student in the A.B. curriculum , Niskayuna. High. School, who Reynolds, Alan Taylor, or Toastmasters -is a voluntary with the highest scholastic explains that ''the Alumni William Zwicke10, co-organizers organization of tnen and women standing while sustaining a high Council's primary purpose is to ...,. of the conference. They can be who want to help each other to personal character.\ e-stablish a network of con· reached at 370-6246. become better public speakers. The George H. Catlin Prize, tinuing relationships with the Toastmasters develops better awarded to the senior student in alumni body, both to hear what L· · · f speaking, listening and thinking liberal arts ''with the highest the alumni have t.osay.andtolet ec u re : abilities through the ob· scholastic record and deemed alumni know what the students, servation of others, practice most promising .f()r graduate faculty and administration of v • · pre&entations and honest study and for eventual service the college think and reel.\ . · · 1. e fn. 0· . ·m. . , · , personal evaluations. · in the field or college teaching\ · Another local resident elected Mohawk . fo.astruasters was given to Mary Mattimore. to an officer of the :council, is president Wayne Andrews of In the field of chemistry, the Garret R. Jessen, of Arthur Schlesinger, Jr. will Niskayuna say's \n1ost people Robert M. Fuller Priex were Sch~nectady. Jessen, a, 1944 deliver the Brackett Lecture never give themselves the awarded to !)enior Peter Felker graduate, ·was named a speaking on \The Imapct of chance to improve, as toast· and sophomore Richard Rizzo. member-at-large of the coun· Vietnam on American Lives'; at masters, we 'do it together and The Charles B. Hurd Prize went cil's executive committee. 8 p.m.. Thur~day, May 17 • in have a lot of fun!'\ to Pavid Lyon for his Ne:w council members-at· Room 016, Social ·Sciences Contact administrative vice achievements in physi-cal large include Charles A. Magill building. The le~rture is funded president Karl Leggett at: 44 chemistry. and Robert L. Bruhn of by the Brackett Fund, the Was.bington Avenue, TheDanielF.PulimanPrizes Schenectady, and Laurence P. · Lester Fund, and the political Schenectady, 12301 or Call-372- in Hwnanities and Engineering Brown, of Slingerlands. Forum. 4761 (w) ...... 37~25 (h). went to Judith Kottke and Yan Others named to the Schlesinger is one of Yuen, respectively. Alumni Council are Allen L. American's. foremost p· • · D Joanna· Bornstein received Limberg, Dr. Henry G. Fein, historians. He is the author of . r I \z e . ay the Frances Travis- Memorial and Henry V. Schaad. They the widely acclaimed Age· of Award \for the student who is have been elected to serve Jackson, as well as The Prize Day ceremonies were working his-her way through three-year terms as members· Imperial Pre~dency' the prize- held on Saturday, May 5 before college and who has demon· at-large of the Union Alumni winning Thousand Days, arid a Parent's Weekend crowd in strated unusual responsibility . Council. Limberg, of C. hurch the two-volume Age of M · 1 Ch 1 R' h d D and self-rel1'ance.\ · R It emor1a ape. • 1c ar ay, Road, Titusville, New Jersey, is ooseve · Chairman of the Board of Meritorious Service Awards 195 ·a d t f u · F · For his most recent book, a gra ua e o mon. em, \\rustees ope d t·h e wen'!: to Fred Berkowti'z, Hope of 2008 Baltimore Road, Rock· Robert Kennedy and His Times, Preside~t . A~~ur:, c £!~~n~f Fablan, -Julie Greifer, Bill ville, Maryland, is a 1971 Schlesinger has just received F ult p u1 B. 1 o· Jenkm' s, Murray LevLS· on, and d t f U · ·s h d f 3 the National Book Award in ac Y a a rown ee, .. ean gra ua e o mon. · c aa , o of Students Robert Kellett, Brien O'Toole. These honors go Glendower, Circle, Pittsford, biography, the second time he A · t D f F ui AI to students for \sel'Vl'ce m· any h th d ( th ssocta e ean o ac ty -an New York, is a 1954 graduate. as won · e awar ano er N 1 d be f f u1 f1'eld above and beyond the ·· National Book Award finalist · e son, an anum· r o ac ty ln return for the visits by the five CSCPRC delegations, the committee has agreed to host visits of five Chinese delegations in the fields of- s f T h remote sensing, new energy e . . . e 0 ry sources, theoretical and applied . . this year was Union College and students presented awards. normal requirements of duty Professor William M. ~urphy). Joe Zolner received a sur- based upon criteria established Schlesinger twice has won - prise award. The plaque, by the student government and Pulitzer Prizes, once in history presented by Steve Richards, voted by. the Student Life mechanics, and materials science, as well as a fiigh-level delegation representing the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences. . The ten economists will tour China for four weeks, artd will publish a report upon their return. Lecture: lAM, Martin K. Starr ,_professor of management science in Columbia University's Graduate ·School of Business and editor·in-chief of Management Science, will speak at 4 p.m. Thursday, May 17 in Room 207, Bailey Hall. His topic will be \The State of the Art in Consumer Modeling.\ Starr, who will lecture as part of a seminar series sponsored- by Uri ion's Institute of AdministratiQn and ~ariagement, is a n1en1ber of the editorial boards of several leading management science journals and is author of numerous books arid articles in technical journals. The public is welcome. Al.umni Counc,il Charles D. Abba, Schenec,. tady's superintendent of schools, has 'been elected an officer of the Union Alumni Council. In recent elections, Abba was named second vice-president. A 191>1 graduate of Union who Th.e . · .Union College and once in biography. He has read: Presented to .Joseph P. Corrunittee. taught at Harvard University, has..served as special assistant to the President of the United States, and is currently the Albert Schweitzer Professor of Humanities at' the City University of New York. The public is invited. Mathematics Department is sponsoring a -conference in Set TheorY, and Mathematical Logic .to be held in Balley Hall on the. Union Cpllege campus, May 19 and 20. This is the third such confer'ence to be held at Union College in recent years and has become a traditional event for mathematicians in the E ·p • • field. Set theory has been one of '. c 0 . 1 c n I c the fastest growing areas of mathen1atical 10esearch in the si~ties and se~enties, and is one of areas of strength in Union College's Mathematics Department. In the present department two factllty members,. Alan Taylor and Bill Zwicker, are primarily Set Theorists while three ()thers, Julian Cole, Paul Glenn, ·and George Reynolds, do work .in closely related fields. Two more Set Theorists will join the department next year - JUlius Barbanel from S.U.N.Y. Buf·· falo and Ned Rosen, from the ·university of Michigan, who's thesis advisor is one of the principal speakers at this year's conference. The conference is organized around three invited addresses, and a .series of short talks. There will also be several-social events. The three principal speakers, Andreas Blass And now something :com· pletely different ... The \New\ Annual Economics Department Picnic, Friday, May 18, 3:30 p.m. to ... ? Jackson's Gar- . dens. Maximize your utility with our roast beef sandwiches, cold salads, chips, soda and beer. All you can eat. and drink (plus a chance to n1ingle with the faculty) at the subsidized prices of only $2.50 in advance or $3.50 \at the door.~ (You see, the price systen1 really is an in- centive and rationing mechanism! ) Everyone is welcome! See Mrs. Angus (SS 212) or any Econon1ics Prof. for \advance\ tickets by 4:30p.m. Thursday, May 17. You must have a ticket to obtain food-as we all know, thereis no free lunch. (Rain date: Wednesday, May 23) '(University of Michigan), Kenneth Kunen (University of T t Wisconsin) and Stanislaw Ulam . Q Q S - (Unj;versity of Colorado) are all. , distinguished mathematicians M. .·t with international rep.utations. ·' . . a· s. e r s Blass has done extensive work with ultrafilters on the ~et of Mohawk Toastmasters, the natural numbers, wnile Kunen Schnectady County Chapter of is particularly well-known in Toastmasters International the areas oflargecardinals and announces the conunemoration the Axiom of · Detennination. of its fouuding. A special dinner Ulam is . a . member of . the meeting will be held at the famous Polish matnematical Holiday Inn 100 Nott Terrace, ·what Hell's Going On? Thursday May 17 _ ALL CAMPUS PHOTO!!! ! 1:00 p.m., West Lawn. AES Coll()qui.um--IAM Speaker-Prof. Martin K. Start will speak on \The State of the Art in Consumer Modeling.\ 4:00p.m., BH Z07. . Lecture-Arthur Schlesinger, Jr., a foremost American Historian will deliver' the Brackett Lecture. speaking on \The Impact of Vietham on American Lives.\ 8:00p.m., SS 016. Friday May 18 Pi.cnic--Economics Depar- tment. Food and Fun!! Everyone is Invited. There is a ' nominal charge. 3:30 p.m., Jackson's Gardens. Philosophy Department Colloquium-Prof. Beauchamp will discuss his recent work. 3: ao p.m., HU 213. Coffeehouse-Jim Bigness. 8:30 p.m., Old Chapel. ~ovie--\Bananas.\ 10:00 p.m., SS 016. Saturday May 19 SIGMA CHI CLAMBAKE-All day. Girling Center. Varsity Lacrosse-Union-vs. Alumni. 2:00p.m., Daley Field. Movie-\Bananas\. 7. 9 & 11 p.nl., ss 016. Sunday May20 Movie-\Bananas\. 7. 9 & 11 p.m., SS 016. Monday May 21 Picnic-Biology Department. 4:00 p.m., Jackson's Gardens. Tuesday May 22 Rain Date for All Campus Photo. 1:00 p.m., West Lawn Wednesday May 23 OPENING NIGHT for THE ·- TRY-OUT. 8:00 p.m., Nott Memorial Camp Union '79 Saturday; Miw 26 12:00-6:30 p.m. , Barbeqoe Li'le Stier .::n1ertainment Soda The Social Committee would appreciate any and all help, and is of,fering a keg of beer to the fraternity, sorority or dorm floor that donates the most man~hours. Contact Chuck Katz .(370-6~77) for details. • I ......

. I 'I• ' . ' . . ' Page 12 C01/00RDIENSIS 1 May-1'1, 19\19 eporte Union Nine W . m Four The Union College Baseball Team ended its regular season this week with four key vic- tories to up their record to 12-9 apd earn a bid in the ECAC Upstate New York Division II and III Baseball Tournament. The Dutchmen, under Coach • Sakala, beat Norwich on Thursday, s.;s, and swept a three game weekend roadtrip heating Rochester, 8-4, on Saturday and taking Hobart in a doubleheader, 4-1 and 23·2 on Sunday. Last Thursday, Union travelled to Norwich for an afternoon game. Dave Adsit went four for five and Trace Aqderson had a home run (his second of the year), to pace Union's 6-5 victory. Mike Hogan got the win for Union. two singles and Lavery helped his own cause wit.h a two Nil single, as Union · went on to defeat Hobart, 4-1. In tne nightcap, Union bats were aflame as Trace Anderson had two triples, a single• and five RBI's, to lead the 17 hit and 23 run Union assault. Lavery added a triple and a double and Dave Adsit hit two singles. Union was aided by four run scoring errors: Wayne Riker took the mound- with a 13 nm lead and coasted to a 23-2 vic- tory. The Union Baseball juggernaut is in the heat of victory and has the unquestiona.ble talent to succeed. Frosh hUrler Glenn Kinns, as well as junior hurlers Joe Lavery and Wayne Biker, lead a stable crew, with the former getting the can in the tournament opener. Union's defensive alignment is intact with: Chris Massaroni, catcher; Joe Lavery, first base; Ron Levine, third base; Alan Delibero, shortstop; and Kevin Frederick, third base;. and in \ the outfield, Trace Anderson, e Dave Adsit, and Dan Thorup- ~ son. The designated hitter will ~ be Mark Decker. >- On.Saturday, Union was away again, this time at Rochestet for a single game. Glen· Kinns (5-5) put his usual ·strong per- formance striking out six and walkingonly two. AI Delibero,·. Oil this past Tuesday, good news :Propelled the Union College Baseball Team into tbe ECAC Upstate New York Division II and III Baseball To\irnament. The Union nine, who have rallied to win 7 out of their last 9, will now match their f)Oise and talent against some top notch competition. ThP. teams coach, Dick .3 Sakala, .said of the tourney, ''the ~ team is· very excited . . , we ~ have the momentum and Should it be strong contenders.\ Third baseman K~vin Frederick This highly competitive tourney Union is about to em- bark on consists of top-grade teams with commendable records. -I ntra~mu.ral Dave Adsit and Kevin · Frederick had a pair of singles each to lead union's ten hit, eight run attack. But the game belonged ·to Joe Lavery who whalloped two hits for three RBJis. In the game, Kinns scattered nine hits for four runs. On Sunday, the team played Hobart. In the opener of a doubleheader, Joe Lavery went the distance for Union allowing just one run on eight hits, while striking out six and walking only two. Dan Thompson had Top seed Cortland State (18- 13) leads the pack and will be fourth-seeded Union's (12·9) first foe. Game time is set for Friday afternoon at 4:00. In the tourney opener, the 2nd and 3rd seeds will do battle-HIT (14-13.) vs. Oneonta (12n9)-in a game beginning at 1:00. The winners of the two games will face each other in the tournament final to be played on Saturday at 1 :,00. by MIKE SCOTT and EDMARRINAN In men's A league softball, six of the eight playoff spots have been filled. teading the league are both Sigroa Chi~ teams, Blue No. 1, and Gold No. 1, both undefeated. other teams in the playoffs thus far are Fiji A, The Beta Bombers, The Rookies, and The Faculty. DPhi and Phi Delt appear to have the inside track for the other two spots. In B league softball division 1, seven of the eight playoff spots have been clinched. The Hicks, at 7-0, are the class ·Of the league., ·followed by the other playoff bound teams, The Pallteras, Sigma Chi Gold No. 2, Phi Sig Red, Fiji B, The Cheated champs, and D.V.-B. In B. league Division 2 soft· ball, only 5 olthe 8 playoff spots have been filled. The H()unds, Trackmen Finish With Strong Performance This past Saturday, May 12, the Union College Outdoor Track Team closed out its regular season play with a strong performance in the NYSCTF A Outdoor Cham- pionship held at Colgate University in Hamilton, New York. The team finished an overall 6th out of 22 teams. In that effort, the team soundly revenged earlier season losses against the likes of Hamilton, Albany State, and RPI.- The highlight of the entire meet was the new State Meet record set by Kevin Scheuer in the 1500 meter run, going the distance in 3:52:1. Scheuer also placed an overall second in the 800 meter .tun finishing up at 1:54:9. ln other events, Matt Guilfoyle finished 3rd in the 400 meter run with an impressive time of 50.1; Dave Cozzens, still recuperating from an. early season injury, finished 3rd in the high jump with a jump of 6 foot 6 inches. Also seeing action was Matt Blum, who along with Lee Parrish, Matt Guilf()yle, and Mark Nazon, finished a strong 5th in the grueling· 400 meter Lavery Stars on Diamond Joe Laver;y is a mechanical engineering major from Canajoharie, New York. Joe's amazing accomplishments in high school helped secure him a permanent position in U~ion College Athletics. While at Union, Joe has played two years of Varsity Basketball as well as three years of Varsity Baseball. Although a fine guard on the court in basketball, Joe's success has come mostly on the baseball diamond. As a Frosh, he-pitched to a 3-1 record for a losing team and still managed to bat an im- pressive 330. In his sophomore season, Joe had an off season as he won on]Y- two of four games while pitching, and slumped for a .258 average. This past week, Joe more than proved his athletic prowess by winning two games while pitching, and batting in an incredible 13 Runs while doubling defensively as a first baseman. In Tuesday's 9-1 victory over Albany State, Joe threw a two- hitter, striking out six , and walking only two. The lone Albany State run was unearned. With his bat, Joe went two for .five, knocking in three runs. In Wednesday's doubleheader loss' to utica, Joe went a total of two for six while playing first base. He did manage to knock in one run. In Thursday's effort against Norwich, Joe played at first base, and proved to provide the offensive punch necessary for Union's 6~5 win. In the game he went two for five with two RBI's. - Over the weekend against Rochester and Hobart, Joe pitched up one win While pit- ching, batted four for nine and collected seven RBI's. It is tmquestionable that Joe Lavery, who picked up two wins pitching, and while playing first base hit for 13 RBI' s and 10 hits, deserves honorable mention as · this weeks ATHLETE OF THE WEEK. Jun.ior star·Jae !.:avery relay clocked at i3.9 seconds. Nazon had earlier competed in- the hurdles, finishing 5th with a , time of 15.2, Earl Chilton finished 6th in the triple jump With a inark of 44 feet 9¥.! inches. James Zaluki finished up 6th in the pole vault with a jump of 13 feet 6 inch,es. The track team's outdoor season ended up witl'i a record of 2-4. Coupled with the indoor seasonal mark, the official record of both team's stands at an impressive. 12-6. - Amongst the many bright spots in the overall play, three trackmen will receive the special honor of attending the IC~A's this upcoming Saturday and Sunday, May 19 and 20- .Kevin Scheuer, Matt Blum, and Earl Chilton. The IC4A's is an outdoor championship meet held amongst Division I, U, and III, sta.ndouts in which athletes from neatly 15& colleges and universities compete. It is a two day meet which will be hosted this year, at the University of Pennsylvania in Philadelphia. Scheuer will be . competing in the 1500 meter run. In previous meets this year, he has com- peted in L as many as three events. Thus, in the IC4A'.s, he will have. the chance to channel his endeavors to one event. Scheuer, an All~American, should prove to loom very tough in this field of standouts. Coach Chuck James noted that he \has been clocked in 3:48 in an indoor meet,\ and the latter sees no reason why Scheuer cannot repeat this feat. BlUiil; a senior high hurcller, will be facing world class c()mpetitors including the likes of Nemiah from the University 1£ Maryland. Bllim, however, is given an outside shot; for earliet· this season, he set a new New York State record covering the 55 yard high hurdles in a p~enomenal 6~8 seconds. Continued 011 page 8 and The Southerners led by Dave O'Connor, .Cliff Farrell and J phnny Bamel, are both undefeated at 7-0~and 6-0 respectively. D Chi, Fiji B, a_nd Third Floor Fox South are all in the playoffs witli 4-2 records,_ The other spots are being fought· for by The Sigma Chi Com· mandoes, The Vegetables, and First Floor Fox, and SAP. · In women's softball, , Jeanettes Gravy Girls, have run out to a 3-tl record to lead the league. Karen Ross,· Kim Nogay, and Margaret Ullman have powered the Gravy Girls in their undefeated season. Co- Ree softball i~ led by The Bogus Baseballets · ..a-o, followed closely by O'Toole's Fools at 2· o. Men's ·lacrosse has an . urt· defeated leader in Psi. U. AD Phi and '1> PhL are tied for second at 2-1. In men's frisbee, Sigma Chi is undefeated after their first four games:. Fiji A beat The Critters to run their respective records to 2-1 and 3- -1. In nien's volleyball, the -guys from D Pbi, led by Andy Bar- . ber, knocked off the previouslY .undefeated Sigma Chi Blue team to take sole- possession of first place. Future activities to look for are the Superstars, the cycle race, track, canoe jousting, Co- Ree canoe jousting, and women's tethetball. Playoffs start today, May 17. The commissioner says that he expects an interesting exciting playoff as a result of the mixing of divisional play, making 'the games more challenging for all. Key games this week to determine playoff spots are ZBT, in a ml!st win situation · against Fiji in the B league. In the A league, T D Chi has to beat both Psi U and DU to achieve a playoff berth. If not, Phi Delt a11d D Phi enter the .playoffs. The 'umps' are chosen by the commissioner and he wishes to remind all players that only the best intramural umpires will officiate the upcoming playoff games. Further news fvom the commissioners office is that the finals will be a best two out of three. There will be .a Super· Playoff between the A and B league champs. They have been working on having the finals played under the lights Daley Field. A word of warning: there will be spot roster and . J.D. checks during . the playoffs to determine .ineligible players. Playing on two A league teams is prohibited, and failure to comply will result in running the .risk in forfitting that playoff game. Good Luck to all playoff teams! • 0 ( Vol > .c. ·, thl ch .pr ex pt co iDI AI st1 ,.,fu th PI pl to .ft h: s1 a p E F n s 1J 0 s I t I r

{ ) '· s ) g 'f J ,.... - YoumleJ at Union College 18'!'! Vol. 108, Ne>. 23 J.R. ShanebroQk, Professor of Mecl1anical Engineering Schenectady, N.Y .. Thursday, May 24, 1979 Middle State$: Energy ' by DOUG ROSENFELD - With the release to the campus community of the p~eliminary re.port of the Middle .States Committee ·Oil Energy, the fourth in a series of Middle States reviews which will total eight when complete, tpe . college is, as Provost C. William Huntley writes, \half- way along in the preparation of Middle States documents in first ·draft.\ The other three such reports released to date are' those on Athletics, Main· tenance, and Gov:emance. The ·Middle States Energy CoJIUrtittee, wbich ·was formed during the summer of 1978, boasts a seven-member staff.: W.C. Aub;:ey, Associate Professor o.f Mechanical Engineering; J.'t. Gajjar, Associate Professor of Elec· trical Engineering and Com- puter Science; T:R. Kershner, Associate Professor of Economics and Chairman of the Department; R.B. Kobert, a senior; J.R. Mills, Director of Maintenance and Physical Plant; J.R. Shanebrook, Professor of Mechanical Engineering, Chairman of the Department, and Chairman of the Conunittee; and W.T. Tougi:Jer, Jr., a senior. Associates. This report, the primary purpose of which was to \indicate the best energy conservation investments that could be made by Union CoHege,\ was presented to the Middle States Energy Com- mittee in the course of its meetings. While the first phase of that energy conservation proposal was fWlded as of May 3, it was not as yet under way and the means for funding the subsequent phases of the project had not been deter- mined. Ren:oVation . . . Propos~d. When the Committee began its deliberations, it was in- formed by Mills of the energy conservation measures which already were completed or were · in process. These measure.s include reduced lighting levels, the adjustment of thermostat settings, the installation of storm windows, boiler plant operation im- provements, and the in- stallation of controls to save energy by shutting down As statistical back-up for the urgency of the energy- conservation . task, the com- mittee was presented by Mills with data for energy ex- penditures past, present, and some projections for the future. The energy cost of P 7 million in the year 1972,.73, when con- trasted with the cost of $.73J million which has been budgeted for the 1978-79year, makes it evident that \in a period of just seven years, \the cost of energy at Union College has nearly tripled.\ The Middle States Energy report cites this and similar statistics as evidence that \the college faces a severe economic problem . ., by PAUL FRlNSOT The Arts Department, lUlder the direction -of its . current. chairman Virginia Bush, .has .proposed to renovate the existing arts facility. This project, which i$ the third component in a larger plan, incllicling an extension to the Arts building and the c()tt\ struction of a Theater~Recital · ·haU, Is critical to· the future of the arts at Union according til Professor Bush. As stated in the proposal, renovation would help to solve. some of the \pressing . functional problems, which hamper the devel9pment and strengthening of both the academic and outreach programs of the dep_artment.'' This past winter Proressot • Barry Smith of Drama and Professor Mordechai Sh.eink- man of Music did an intensive study of the bUilding and turned . up three major problems, each of which has important con- sequences for the academic program and the general at- tractiveness of the college to present and future students. The first problem, as stated in the report, is that \the College lacks a controlled gallery space where works of ;:trt can be displayed.''Jt is felt by Prof. Bush that such a space is essential to the ''enhancement of the cultural environment,'' as the remoteness of the Schenectady Museum is a deterrent to both students and visitors. The gallery, which will displaY W()rks owned by the college as well as those done by stud.ents and faculty, will furtber serve as •·•a teaching -tool.\ ·The second f.inding of the Smith.Sheinkl'nan study is that \room 202 of the Arts BUilding is -presently the. only suitable ·Space· on campus for too many activities.\ Dance and drama cl~sses, glee club and chamber music rehearsals, concerts, Tai Chi, fencing, folk dancing compete fot: time in this room, which \should also be available for large music and art history classe~.\ Because of noise and vibration from dance and some drama classes the space un- derneath 202. is unuseable. In addition, \the Glee clubs have been shunted off to Old Chapel, where they have no music ·storage and have to contend with noise from the Skeller below.'' · The third problem with the · present building is that \art majors have no individual studio space, which is as critical - 'Jh:ginia Bush, <;:bairman of the Arts department. '\ to them as is laboratory access or computer time to other students.\ Prof. Bush indicated that ''any student who becomes seriously interested in art has to .find- space,\ as artwork canl}ot · m.eci:Janical equipment when it is not. being used. be done in dorms. The proposal states that \this lack of. studio space is .often enough to sway a student in choosing schools, and has been responsible for tlte transfer out of students who became seriously committed to . art while at Union.'' The solutions to the problems are indicated in the statement as follows: . 1) A gallery space near the center of the whole college, located in the traffic flow of the Arts Building, overseen by the secretary and chairman during the day and closed off when not under supervision. 2) A dance-drama studio on the ground floor, freeing 202 for glee clubs, chamber music, etc. 3) Individual student studio spaces on the third floor away -from the traffic. Prof. Bush related that there is $200;000 in a fund set up by the Walter. Kreusi family ear- .. marked for the arts to bear the ~ Kreusi name. She indicated that ~ the project should cost arounci ~ $300,000 with some other money If coming from maintenance and energy-savir.g projects. This is due to the fact that \the Arts Building is second worst on campus t after the Gym) in terms of deferred main- tenance.\ This· includes a leak ridden roof which endangers valuable musical instruments. The buil~ing, says Bush, is also in violation of fire codes by not having an enclosed staircase, and the wooden doors on the elevator are illegal. Finally, the edifice poses an energy problem for the campus as it is not insulated, nor •.oes it contain any vestibules. The timing of the project seems to be most critical in the m~nds of the Arts faculty for several r~asons. The first is in relation to the functional problems which renovation woUld solve, benefiting both the academic. and cultural p.rogram.s. immedia·tely. Secondly; as stated· in the proposal ''inflation has eaten away at the purchasing .power of the Kreusi money since it was given in the 1960's. Delay will simply exac\\erbate th~t problem.\ Thirdly, because of sabbaticals and changes in the Continued on page 8 The Ma,y 3, 1979 issue of Concordiensis gave extensive coverage· to the college's recently-evolved ''Energy Conservation Proposal,'' a plan formulated with the assistance of an . independent local engineering firm, Saratoga Explicit in the report of the . Saratoga Ass~iates is a fear that Union's fut\ll'e survival Continued on page 4 Paul LeClerc, Associate professor of French LeClerc Named CUNY Dean Paul LeClerc, associate professor of French h~s been named University Associate Dean for Academic Affairs of Ute City University of New York (SUNY). '!'he third largest university in the colmtry., CUNY is a com-_ plex, public urban system comprised of eight junior colleges, ten senior colleges (including Hunter, Queens, City, and Brooklyn colleges), and a distinguished graduate center. As university dean, LeClerc will have special responsibilities for planning and developing new academic programs, and for review, eoordination and evaluation of existing and proposed academic programs within the various branches of the university. LeClerc, who assumes his new- responsibilities in the tall will report to the Vice- Chancellor for Academic Af- fairs of the university. As a meD;}ber of Union's faculty since 1966, LeClerc has served as chairman of the humanities division, chairman of the modern languages department, and on the College Senate and a wide variety of collegt:; committees, including Plannmg and Priorities Curricular Mfairs, Admissions: Library, and tbe Committee on Standing. His scholarly work bas concerned Voltaire and the French Enlightenment. He recently won a $20,000 grant from the National Endowment for the Htunanities for a book· length study of equality, a concept centra! to the Age of Enlightenment in l8th-ce11tury France.

. '' i \ ' \ ! '\ ,, \ '' . ' - Page 2 CONP-QRDIE~SIS, Ma:y 2-9, 1979 EDITORIALS Another Year Gone, The year has certainly been an eventful one. It has been a time of acclimitization and ac- complishment by a new Dean of Students; of searching for new leaders to fill the offices of Presidl'nt and Dean of Admissiens; and of concentrated college self-scrutiny as an outgrowth both of the Middle States Drafting Commission reviews and the governance system drafts. And the year appears to have been a productive one, too. John Morris, as Union's President-elect, is due to take up the reins of the college's top administrative office over the summer. Kenneth Nourse, the college's choice for Dean of Admissions, will be at the helm of his department next year as well. The preliminary drafts of the Middle States reviews on Athletics, Maintenance, Energy, and Governance are encouraging insofar as they display, a recognition on the part of the college ad- ministration of many of the crucial problems which plague the school.~ Moreover, in some cases there are encouraging signs that the fin· dings and recommendations of the drafting committees are being acted upon by the college. Whether or not the energy conservation program and ·the restoration of Garis Field are con· sequences of, or, merely accidentally concurrent with, tbe recommendations of the Middle, States committees, they are ne-vertheless welCome improvements. It can only be hoped that the recommendations of past and forthcoming reports will be· seriously considered and ap- propriately addressed. In these past three weeks, the process of seleeting new .representatives for student government ran its course and yielded a fresh- looking lot of officers. Congratulations and the · bestofJuck to all of you: Ken Plumb; Forum President; Da' P O'Con:nor, Forum Vice President; Ed Lonergan, Junior Trustee; Bill Meehan and Vern Wetmore, Junior Represen~ tatives; and Will Lloyd and Betsy Modest, Sophomore Representatives. Finally, I would like to thank all of those graduating seniors who have contributed sub- stantially to the paper during my affiliation with it. Thanks and the best of luck to seniors Dave Rubin, Matt Nagorsky, Joanne Malin. Todd Miller, Debbe Damrell, Murray Levison. Steve Grill, Brien O'Toole, Steve Richards, Cary Feuerman, and Jan DeDeka. Housing Panic At the beginning of the week the College was faced with its annual \panic\ in the freshman class in regard to the housing situation for next year. It seems that there are never enough rooms for next year's sophomore class, or that is the fear among the administrators and students involved, Some questions which should be raised are; who starts the panic? Are the RA' s really performing as they should during the \crisis?\ Why is there an almost paranoid lack of com- munication on all parts? The_panic itself is usually started by a rumor, the source of which may be an administrator or student. It is pointless to blame any one or two individuals, as these rumors are usually con- torted by others for the purpose of fulfilling their own fantasies. Thus, the .final product is a fresh- man who has become enraged because his friend heard an inciting piece· of news. The irratio.nal thinking and actions of any number of freshmen may then be expected. The role of the Resident Advisor in relation-to the extent to Which he or she must pursue a problem has always been a question. It .is quite evident, though, that the RA 's did not act as a group on this particular matter of housing. In a potentially explosive situat-ion they should have inquired into its immediacy and severity. The blatant lack of communication is the obvious divisive influence, The responsibility must ultimately fall on the administration since students are somewhat cautious when ap- proaching their own governance system with a problem. If the RA's are not doing the job in the eyes of the administration and st,udents, then the present system should be reconsidered. The burden of work in this particular instance seems to be upon the Housing Office. Their superiors in the Dean of Students Office laa.ve a responsibHity to the students upon the occurrence of their dissatisfaction. If the students feel alienated from that office, as some do, then something is not right. We Question Your Purpose To Robert -Kellett, Dean of Students: We would like to take this opportunity to respond to one as,pect of your proposed reorganization of Student Af- fairs. We question your purpose in proposing that Graduate Studen~ from SUNY Albany live in the remaining three on- campus dormitory a,partment:s, and further, we do not see the need nor the place for additional Student Affairs- personnel as live-in ·'counselors.\ First, we question your purpose. Certainly, there has been a considerable atnount of discussion about valldalism and other immature behavior in the dormitories (and in other buildings) this past year. Is part of your· solution to the problem · live-in administrators who · would no doubt '''restore order to the dormitories?\ At least two of your fellow ad- ministrators, and two faculty members, seem to feel that that is the purpose! Second, we question the use of more on-campus residence space for administrators. Would it be fair to force those Union College for allowing me the opportunity to serve as the next President of the Student Body. In particular, I would like to send my greatest thanks to those people who took the time and effort to vote and more imp()rtantly, to those in- dividuals who offered their support and assistance through the entire campaing. ' Without this support and assistance my efforts would have been fruitless. As far as next year is con- cerned, plans have already begun to transfer the re~ns from this years administration to next'year's. The changeover itself will officially take place sometime after the first of June. Once again, thank you for your support during the past week, and I ask for both your cooperation and input during the remaining three weeks, as well as for the remaining three terms; in the hope that we can students who desire to live in the on-campus apartments off~ campus or to their second choice on-campus housing. This consideration carries additional credence in light of the an- ticipated \severe on-campus housing shortage\ projected for next year. Could this mean· another half.doz·ert five .. rnan, suites next ·fall (plus the possibility of students living i9 the Ramada Inn)? Third, we question the loss of dormitory lncome to the College .. Not only do we feel that seven.thousand dollars could be put to much better use (i.e., dormitory furniture},. but we also feel tha~ this particular aspect of your proposat raised serious questions during :the Planning and Pr:iorities, Committee meeting of April 25 'fhich have not be.eh answered. Should the number of ad- mi·nistrative positions be allO\yed to increase while there is a present freeze on the number of faculty members? Can the Dean of Students freely 'Change the amount of money allocated within his budget a~ long as the \bottom line'' remains the same? (The Sincerely, Michael Baeco Elections To the Editors: Now that the Student Forum elections are finally over and I have thoroughly got myself boozed at Beta grain? I wish to thank an those individuals involved in the long process that led to the election of the new Student Forum for a job well done. First, •I must give ap- preciation to the other members of the Election Committee, Joe 'Cristofaro, Paul Stt;llbof, Jon Driller, Matt Pachnlan, Bruce Beni, Bruce Kaplan lwho did quite a l<Jt for the elections before he embarked on his campaign), Jon Ntel, and Sindy Berger, who put together a lot of time fn. handling the petitinns, proposal hid the loss in dor- mitory revenue by offsetting it with a savings in the Health Service. Neithe.r the cost nor the savings axz.e reflected in next Year's budget. No on-campus · committee has officially even reviewed the policy,) - Fourth, we question the way in which you and the Provost tr·ied to couch the entire proposal in ·secrecy until you were able. to finalize all the details of the proposal. In fact, your office began interviewing applicanU, for the Student Af· fairs positions as early as the fifth week of Winter Terni. And finally, we would like t9 ask you and the Provost to honestly ask yourselves whether you have presented this ptopesal .in the spirit of the current ..College Governance System,. or whether you- are presenting this proposal to the College community as a \take it or we'll give it to you\ offer? Andrew Wisoff, Jr. Class Representative Murray Levison, Student Body Vice-President Steven Grill, Senior Class Representative the who contributed so much to this event. Without them it would have been quite a boring. election and most of all to the concerned students and particularly to the Class of 1982 who came out and voted in the best turnout this college has seen in a long time. Those in· dividuals are what an election is really all about. Good luck to the new Student Forum in the coming year. Gratefully, Rich Budd Elections Chairman Best Yet To the Campus Community, I would like to take an op· portunity to publicly commend the work of the Election Committee and its effective governing institution helping me in haggling over fairest, most efficienu;s run, at Union College. Thanks again~ ~vague .guidelines; to . Stev:e · and itivolve(f mort!' successfUl Richards for the cooperation he creative thinking than I've seen Sincerely, gave me with \the ·Student in four years. The \petition Ken Plumb Forum and his inspiration for Box 2065 holding the elections outside challengeH scheduled by ~he Phone 332·9029 and Mike Brand, who was Chairperson ·· best exempliftes. willing·to -cough· up tlle money ... {\11 t~ra~ ~tri~~t~s. Mo·re·,·· Thanks .... ,. ·/. '····~t·;~ow~~~t~~v,e;:;··tbr:·,,..~,g~ljtfit~~ttt~ .. e. ... . . students to use. Two factc.rs oppo~~nts petitions tf their that helped bring sueh a high suspiCions _had been aroused: It turnout on the election days. was only one .P~ogresstve Also to be mentioned, Walter feature of process thas year, and Deal\ Editor: · Bork&wski· ·from the· Sehenee- · I ~ope it an4 the many others tady County Board * Electirms wtl~ not be forgotten .next Since the election, I have not ·, who arranged and set up the sp,rmg. had the time to get out to machines 1 and Maintenance for everyone I had hoped to, to their help in transporting the thank them for their help and machines to the college~ , encouragement In addition, th'$te are aloo the Sincerely, Brien R. O'Toole - Jts the \!J nosta of th• rnigh chani writE As of th Con\J Life have posit spen over insti enur Coll mul1 four you HoVli this of ' acq1 Mid yea1 mu< wid ver: B imi o'f ref' out: tba pla the ho'\i pof str me de' as~ ~ ge: we th• at1

Page 2 CONCORDIENSIS, May 24, 1979 EDITORIALS Another Year Gone The year has certainly been an eventful one. It has been a time of acclimitization and ac- complishment by a new Dean of Students; of searching for new leaders to fill the offices of Presidl'ont and Dean of Admissions; and of concentrated college self-scrutiny as an outgrowth both of the Middle States Drafting Commission reviews and the governance system drafts. And the year appears to have been a productive one, too. John Morris, as Union's President-elect, is due to take up the reins of the college's top administrative office over the summer. Kenneth Nourse, the college's choice for Dean of Admissions, will be at the helm of his department next year as well. The preliminary drafts of the Middle States reviews on Athletics, Maintenance, Energy, and Governance are encouraging insofar as they display a recognition on the part of the college ad- ministration of many of the crucial problems which plague the school. Moreover, in some cases there are encouraging signs that the fin- dings and recommendations of the drafting committees are being acted upon by the college. Whether or not the energy conservation program and the restoration of Garis Field are con- sequences of, or merely accidentally concurrent with, the recommendations of the Middle States committees, they are nevertheless welcome improvements. It can only be hoped that the recommendations of past and forthcoming reports will be seriously considered and ap- propriately addressed. In these past three weeks, the process of sele-cting new .representatives for student government ran its course and yielded a fresh- looking lot of offic~rs. Congratulations and the bestof luck toall of you: Ken Plumb, Forum President: Da\ (' O'Connor, Forum Vice President; Ed Lonergan, Junior Trustee; Bill Meehl:\! and Vern Wetmore, Junior Represen- tatives; and Will Lloyd and Betsy Modest, Sophomore Representatives. Finally, I would like to thank all of those graduating seniors who have contributed sub- stantially to the paper during my affiliation with it. Thanks and the best of luck to seniors Dave Rubin, Matt Nagorsky, Joanne Malin. Todd Miller, Debbe Damrell, Murray Levison. Steve Grill, Brien O'Toole. Steve Richards, Cary Feuerman, and Jan DeDeka. Housing Panic At the beginning of the week the College was faced with its annual \panic\ in the freshman class in regard to the housing situation for nexi year. It seems that there are never enough rooms for next year's sophomore class, or that is the fear among the administrators and students involved. Some questions which should be raised are: who starts the panic? Are the RA's really performing as they should during the \crisis?\ Why is there an almost paranoid lack of com- munication on all parts? The.panic itself is usually started by a rumor, the source of which may be an administrator or student. It is pointless to blame any one or two individuals, as these rumors are usually con- torted by others for the purpose of fulfilling their own fantasies. Thus, the final product is a fresh- man who has become enraged because his friend heard an inciting piece of news. The irrational thinking and actions of any number of freshmen may then be expected. The role of the Resident Advisor in relation.to the extent to which he or she must pursue a problem has always been a question. It is quite evident, though, that the RA's did not act as a group on this particular matter of housing. In a potentially explosive situation they should have inquired into its immediacy and severity. The blatant lack of communication is the obvious divisive influence. The responsibility must ultimately fall on the administration since students are somewhat cautious when ap- proaching their own governance system with a problem. If the RA's are not doing the job in the eyes of the administration and st:udents, then the present system should be reconsidered. The burden of work in this particular instance seems to be upon the Housing Office. Their superiors in the Dean of Students Office have a responsibility to the students upon the occurrence of their dissatisfaction. If the students feel alienated from that office, as some do, then something is not right. We Question Your Purpose To Robert Kellett, Dean of Students: We would like to take this opportWiity to respond to one aspect of your proposed reorganizati()n of Student Af- fairs. We question your purpose in proposing that Graduate Students from SUNY Albany live in the remaining three on- campus dormitory apartments, and further, we do not see the need nor the place for additional Student Affairs personnel as Live-in \coWtselors.\ First, we question your purpose. Certainly, there has been a considerable amount of discussion about vandalism and other imm.ature behavior in the dormitories (and in other bwldings) this past year. Is part af your solution to the problem live-in administrators who would no doubt \restore order to the dormitories?\ At least two of your fellow ad- miaistrators, and two faculty members, seem to feel that that is the purpose! Second, we question the use of more on-campus residence space for administrators. Would it be fair to force those students who desire to live in the on-campus apartments off- campus or to their second choice an-campus housing. This consideration carries additional credence in Ught of the an- ticipated \severe on-campus housing shortage\ projected for next year. Could this mean another half-dozen five-man suites next fall (plus the possibiTity of students Uving in the Ramada Inn)? Third, we question the loss of do,rmitory income to the College. Not only do we .feel that seven thousand dollars could be pu.t to much better use (i.e., dormitory furniture), but we also feel that this particular aspect of your proposal raised serious questions during the Planning and Priorities Committee meeting of April 25 which have not been answered. Should the number of a~­ ministrative positions be allowed to increase whHe there is a present freeze on the number of faculty members? Can the Dean of Students freely •change the amount of money allocated within his budget a~ long as the \bottom line\ remains the same? (The proposal hid the loss in dor- mitory revenue by offsetting it with a savings in the Health Service. Neither the cost nor the savings are reflected in next year's budget. No on-campus committee has officially even reviewed the policy. ) Fourth, we question the way in which you and the Provost tried to couch the entire pnposal in secrecy until you were able to finalize aU the details of the proposal. In fact, your office began interviewing applicants £or the Student Af- fairs positions as early as the fifth week of Winter Term. And finally, we would li'ke to ask you and the Provost to honestly as'k yourselves whether you have presented this proposal in the spirit of the current CoUege Governance System, or whether you are presenting this prop0sal to the College community as a \take it or we'll give it to you\ offer? Andrew Wisoff, Jr. Class Representative Murray Levison, Student Body Vice-President Steven Grill, Senior Class Representative Lett-ers 1 would just like to take the to thank: all the students of College for allowing me opportunity to serve as the President of the Student Body. In particular, I would like send my greatest thanks to those people who took the time and effort to vote and more ntly, to those in- who offered their and assistance through entire campaing. Without this support and my efforts would ha:ve been fruitless. As far as next year is con~ cemedt plans have already begun to transfer the reins fr<lm this years administration to next· year• s. The changeover itself will officially take place sometime after the first of June. Once again, thank you for your support during thr. past week, and I ask for both your cooperation and input during the remaining three weeks, as well as for the remaining three terms, in the hope that we can make student governn1ent an effective governing institution Union College. Thanks again. Sincerely, Ken Plumb Box2065 Phone 382-9029 More Thanks Dear Editor: Since the electiont I have not had the time to get out to everyone I had hoped to, to thank them for their help and encouragement during my f(lr -Student Body Presid•~nt.rn the course of the preceding the run .. off e:le,ct1on, I s~e to hundreds o£ stu~:ten1cs and would like to ex- nrAl;:s my sin~erest thanks to all woo had the J)atienee interest to Usten tu me and . me questi()ftS. To those who out and Wok the ·ttm. to ~Wit oo · · l , mn me thank you. Also, a very special thank you to my roommates, Jeff, Piano. and Todd for putting up with tny mania for the past two weeks .. and best of luck to Ken Plun1b and the new Student Forwn. Sincerely~ Michael Bacco Elections To the Editors: Now that the Student Forum elections are finally over and I have thoroughly got myself boozed at Beta grain, I wish to thank all those individuals involved in the long process that led to the election of the new Student Forum for a job well done. First, I must give ap- preciation to the other mem!}ers of the Election Committee, Joe Cristofaro, Paul Stolbof, Jon Driller, Matt Pach.tnan, Bruce Beni, Bruce Kaplan {who did quite a lot for the elections before he embarked on his campaign), Jon Axel, and Sindy Berger, who put together a lot of time fn handling the petitions, and machines, as well as helping me in haggling over vague guidelines; to Steve Richards for the cooperation be gave me with the Student Forum and his inspiration for holding the elections outside and Mike Brand, who was willing to cough up the money that allowed us to have the three voting machines for the students to use. Two factors that helped bring such a high turnout on the eleetion days. Also to be mentioned, Walter Borkowski from the Schenec- tady County Board of Elections , who arranged and set up the machines., and Maintenance for their help in transporting the machines to the college. , In addition} there are also the myriad of people who h~lped out in taking care of the machines. Lorraine Marra, Steve Will Lloyd, Andy Wisoff, Mark Burnett, Matt Lubart, Murray Levison, Angelo Mazzone, Jim Seamans,. and Sigma '\Ghi Fraternity for their part large or small in this election. , Finally, one must remember the candidates whu contributed so much to this event. Without them it would have been quite a boring election and most of all to the concerned students and particularly to the Class of 1982 who came out and voted in the best turnout this college has seen in a long time. Those in- dividuals are what an election is really all about. Good luck to the new Student Forum in the coming year. Gratefully, Rich Budd Elections Chairman Best Yet To the Campus Community. I would like to take an op-- portunity to publicly commend the work of the Election Committee and particularly its· chairperson Richard Budd. Last week's election was the fairest, most efficiently run, and involved more successful creative thinking than I've seen in four years. The \petition challenge., scheduled by the Chairperson best exemplifies all three attributes. It provided candidates the chance to qu~stion the. of opponents' petitions if suspicions had been aroused. It was only one progressive feature of process this year, and I hope it and the many others will not be. forgotten .next spring. Sincerely, Brien R. O'Toole Housing working a,nd counting the To the editors: ballots, and were most responsible fo~ the smooth • operation of this year's election With the term coming to a despite all that Murp:hy•s law. close. next year's housing could mll$ter.'Tbafiks fnr this: go cupies the thoughts of many t At W G bi u us. Whether or not you or a ·o · · ynn, · · m1' P, .upson, friend got a good number, if you Jim tv~astracco. Brian Niale~ : can .a g(lod m~ or just · .. cartm~igb;~.··. D.mtt*' Jallit3l,. . . . ut; and so on. . - Its the } nosta of th migb chan writt As of tt Com Life have posH spen QVei inst enur Coll mul\ four you HoVI this of acq Mid yea mw wid ver B im1 of ref out tha pla the hm po: str mE de as: ge we th at

OONOOBDIENSIB 1 May 24, 1979 Pa~e 3 Reflections on Student Life Jt seems inappropriate to end the year without somf;\ sort .of nostalgic overview by members of the senior class. Much as it might have been a refreshing change to do without this, w,e'll . write it anyway. Sorry. As bQth seniors and members of the Middle States Drafting Committee evaluating Student Life and Student Affairs, we have found ourselves in a positipn to. reflect ~pon our time spent at Union as well as our overall impressions of this, institution. As has been enumerated many .times, the College has experienced a multitude of changes during our four yeats here. We won't bore you by restating tnese events. HoweveF, we would like to take this opportunity to convey some of the perceptions we have acq l;lired from sitting on the Middle States Committee this year. We are concerned that much of the report may not be widely read as it is coming out very late in the academic year. Briefly, we have ~:eceived the impression that although much of the campus community refuses to admit the fact outright, we and they believe that Union is essentially a good place. This i~ not to say that there are no problems here; however, we believe the College possesses the fundamental structure so as to make a meaningful contribution to the development of those associated with it. We have identified several general problem areas and would like to share' them with the campus, not in an effort to attack the College, but rather in the hope that by making .people aware of these problems, remedies may soon follow .. The first is a lack of pride .in and commitment to Union College as found among students, facult:Y, ad- ministration and staff. This leads to weak feelings .of in- stitutional identity and a' nmure to benefit ftolh the traditions of the College. In addition to problems concerning apathy and vandalism, tbe overall atmosphere of the College contributes to .a feeling of dissatisfaction with being at Union. We would hope that a concerted effort throughout the campus to improve this attitude as well as an increased awareness of the history and traditions of Union will eon- tribute to reducing this problem. The second general area of concern deals with the prevailing feeling of anti- intellectualism. There appears to be a strong commitment to accomplishment of academic endeavors, as opposed to pure \intellectualizing.\ The workload press!lre felt by most students is such that \sink-in\ and ''think\ tilne is not per- ceived as possible. Rarely does one take the time to ponder or casually discuss academically related topics. This, coupled with the preprofessionalism of the 1970's, fosters a grade- oriented atmosphe.re which clearly detracts from the personal development of in- dividuals. The ·academic framework of Union College seems to be overly structured, hesitant towards innovation, stifling of creative processes, as well as overwhelmed with trivial, nonessential \busywork.\ The third problem area concerns a lack of commitment to the development (in- tellectual, persona, spiritual, social) of the undergraduate student. The lack of support for students detracts from this development. At times, after dealing with members of the campus community for various reasons, students are left with a \bad taste in their mouths.\ There .is a lack of concern about the present; Union is a \step- ping stone\ for many un- dergraduates for life after college .. An occasional \bending of the rules\ can do much to supply the means to enable the studenttogrow to his-her fullest potential. . The College com- munity should stimulat~ free thinking and creativity throug.h supporting campus functions and innovative ideas. Lastly, we believe that all members of the campus community should be treated as adults until such time as their actions warrant otherwise. We certainly don't want to give the impression that these problems are overbearing. We hope that through increased awareness, these , .problem areas will be grossly lessened and the campus community can develop to its fullest. We have benefited from and enjoyed our years. at Union College im- mensely, and hope that all who follow us will have similar feelings. Sincerely, Debbe Damrell '79 Matt Nagorsky '79 Letters After listening to the living conditions of the other Terms Abroad, I think it would be safe to assume, we lived the most comfortably of all of them!) The courses we took at CEUCA were all worthwhile and intersting. The staff CEUCA was helpful friendly. Union carried on the ''party tradition\ and made a gr~t party for all at CEUCA at the end of the term. The good and close relationships oot•wee~n CEUCA and Union also llelo•en make the term outstanding. - Yo~etteUaperson about Colombia without . ·.· ·. neo~l)le. Of course one encounter ........... a .. . but on tbe most. Richard Simons Dana Thau '81 Grammar . To the Editor: The battle-weary few who still Conthnted on Commentary Housi~g :Lottery Ever since the \squatters' rights'' system for placing students in on·campus housing was abolished and the housing· lottery invoked in its place, there has been an annual student outcry against per- ceived injustices of the housing system. This is not to imply that there never did exist complaints under the squatters' rights system. There is only one dif- ference between the complaints of then and now: in the old system, complaints were maintained by individuals who felt they had been treated un- fairly, whereas in the new system, entire classes scream that they are \being screwed.\ The housing lottery has this year taken its perennial bad twist. The sophomore class, as the last to draw numbers and pick rooms for the next academic year, is furious not only over the scarcity ·of remaining \preferred\ rooms,. but over the rwnoured shortage of available rooms of. any type. The sophomore class lottery, which was scheduled to take place last night, Wednesday, May 23, proceeded in an at- mosphere charged with these disappointments and hostilities. On· Tuesday, May 22, Con- cordiensis interviewed Dean of Students R.H. Kellett and Director of Housing, Dave Wood, in an attempt to clarify the mystery surrounding the rumoured \bed shortage\ situation. In their explanations may be found some elucidation of the nature and extent of the problem as it stands, and, through this understanding, perhaps even enough reassurance to·quell some of the sophomore class' alarm. According to Wood, the sophomore class, since the beginning of the lottery system has been the last group to choose accommodations. Squeezed between the freshmen who must have on-campus housing and the upperclassmen who also are treated preferentially in deference to their seniority, the sophomore class inevitably is the most frequently disappointed and, thus, the most prone to com- plain. Kellett and Wood realistically appraise the housing system as one which cannot possibly please all and so must strive to please as many students as it can. Then there exists the panic over the rumored shortage of housing available for sophomore occupancy. The rumor that there is a bed shortage of approximately eighty as the sophomore class goes . to the lottery is w ~11- founded. It is not, however, Qtonrnr cause for unqualified outrage, panic, and condemnation of the planning shortusigbtedness of the Director of Housing's Of- fice. The actual shortage will not be known until ail sophomores draw nwnbers in the Wednesday lottery. The figure of 80 beds sho~ is, .a maximum number which !S based upon the assumption that all eligible sophomores wUI in fact draw numbers in the lot- tery. As some of these people opt to live off campus, the pressure on dormitory space for the class will be eased. Things may lie l>ad, but they are not as bad as they seem. The lambasting by students of the Housing Office is largely unjustified as it precedes, in many cases, an understanding of the dynamics behind the system of finding housing ac- commodations for a school's student population. Wood afn forded Co!icordiensis some insights into several factors which impede the efficiency of the housing administration system. The overriding fact of the housing situation is that it is a truly dynamic phenomenon. Thenumber, sex, and academic class of students who seek housing on campus fluctuates wildly from year to year and from tenn to term. People who opt to move off campus, people who leave the school and those who transfer in, students who travel abroad and seek ac- commodations upon their return--all of these factors cause chaos in the housing plans. Facing an oversupply oi students for a limited supply of on-campus housing, Kellett and Wood claim that the major contingency plan for placing these excess people entails the utilization of the five-person suite. When asked if the three- person double was a con- sideration, Wood and Kellett insisted that this alternative was not a likely one. The five- person suite has been used by the College in the past in similar circumstances; it is a tem- porary solution which, when combined with the waiting list, theoretically leads to the relative satisfaction of the student with his-her living situation. When asked whether the College would consider the renting of hotel rooms to ac- commodate the resident overflow, both Kellett and Wood were elusive-this alternative does not seem to be high on their priority list. That tbe students most in- timately affected by this sophomore-last lottery policy are outraged by the shortage of Continued on page 10 Editors-in-Chief . News Editors Layout Editors Feature Editors Associate Editor Business Editors Classified Editor Arts Editor Douglas Rosenfeld, Sara Simmons . Paul Feinsot, Melissa Cragm Matt Nagorsky, Dan Wojnilower Sue Barnhart, Donna Cree ley David Rubin Carole Reinig, Gina Torrisi Roberta Moss Cindy Aranow Matt Kayne, Mark Palomba Pat Condello, Pam Ryan Pat Wrignt JanDeDeka Sports Editors Copy Edi!ors Photography Editor Fine Lines Editor Subscription Editors Staff . Martha Rubenstein, Linda Owen Debbe Damrell, Steve Grill, Joanne Malin Sue Marr, Ellen Van Dyke CONCORDIENSIS is published every Thursday by the student body of Union College, Carnegie Hall, Schenectady, New York 12308; Publications Office: Susquehanna Publications, Inc., s~ Reynolds Ave .. , Oneonta, New York 13820, (607) 432-6737. Entered in . the Schenectady Post .Office as third cl.a~s matter. Subscription rat~: 35 cents per copy, $10 per year, dehvered anywhere in the l;lJmted .&tates.

OONOORDIENSIS, May 24, 19\19 Reflections on Student Life It seems inappropriate to end the year without somE' sort of nostalgic overview by members of the senior class. Much as it might have been a refreshing change to do without this, we'll write it anyway. Sorry. As both seniors and members of the Middle States Drafting Committee evaluating Student Life and Student Affairs, we have found ourselves in a position to reflect upon our time spent at Union as well as our overall impressions of this institution. As has been enumerated many times, the College has experienced a multitude of changes during our four years here. We won't bore you by restating these events. However, we would like to take this opportunity to convey some of the perceptions we have acquired from sitting on the Middle States Committee this year. We are concerned that much of the report may not be widely read as it is coming out very late in the academic year. Briefly, we have received the impression that although much of the campus community refuses to admit the fact outright, we and they believe that Union is essentially a good place. This is not to say that there are no problems here; however, we believe the College possesses the fundamental structure so as to make a meaningful contribution to the development of those associated with it. We have identified several general problem areas and would like to share them with the campus, not in an effort to attack the College, but rather in the hope that by making people aware of these problems, remedies may soon follow. The first is a lack of pride in and commitment to Union College as found among students, faculty, ad- ministration and staff. This leads to weak feelings of in- stitutional identity and a failure to benefit from the traditions of the College. In addition to problems concerning apathy and vandalism, the overall atmosphere of the College contributes to a feeling of dissatisfaction with being at Union. We would hope that a concerted effort throughout the campus to improve this attitude as well as an increased awareness of the history and traditions of Union will con- tribute to reducing this problem. The second general area of concern deals with the prevailing feeling of anti- intellectualism. There appears to be a strong commitment to accomplishment of academic eRdeavors, as opposed to pure \intellectualizing.\ The workload pressure felt by most students is such that \sink-in\ and \think\ time is not per- ceived as possible. Rarely does one take the time to ponder or casually discuss academically related topics. This, coupled with the preprofessionalism of the 1970's, fosters a grade- oriented atmosphere which clearly detracts from the personal development of in- dividuals. The academic framework of Union College seems to be overly structured, hesitant towards innovation, stifling of creative processes, as well as overwhelmed with trivial, nonessential \busywork.\ The third problem area concerns a lack of conunitment to the development (in- tellectual, persona, spiritual, social) of the undergraduate student. The lack of support for students detracts from this development. At times, after dealing with members of the campus community for various reasons, students are left with a \bad taste in their mouths.\ There is a lack of concern about the present; Union is a \step- ping stone\ for many un- dergraduates for life after college. An occasional \bending of the rules\ can do much to supply the means to enable the student to grow to his-her fullest potentiaL The College com- munity should stimulate free thinking and creativity through supporting campus fl:lllctions and innovative ideas. Lastly, we believe that all members of the campus community should be treated as adults until such time as their actions warrant otherwise. We certainly don't want to give the impression that these problems are overbearing. We hope that through increased awareness, these problem areas will be grossly lessened and the campus community can develop to its fullest. We have benefited from and enjoyed our years at Union College im- mensely, and hope that all who follow us will have similar feelings. Sincerely, Debbe Damrell '79 Matt Nagorsky '79 • • ' '' • ~ • • • • ' • • ' • • • • ,:' i • ~ Letters Continued from page 2 course, you do not w()rry about this if you live in a fraternity. You know you will get housing. Some fraternities have unlim. ited expansion rights throughout Fox and Davidson, out of their own houses and into dorms or into fraternities that do not fill tMir hous~s. This is being done since there are fratemiti~s with 60-7il brothers. Part of the reason that fraternitiE>.s are so large may be due to people who joi:n them just . or housing . and this does happen. In tbi$ situatinn you end up with sophOlll. ores who are assured of better housing than some juniors can get .. So. · eople who . take jOining a miternity mo~ seri.t)u~ly ,get .hUTt. Union may be~ 'the MGther w Frfliernlties 11 j bU:t th~ there are more ~ep .·· .. than brothers and -·college'$ policy .. shoul~ re. · · . ize this faCt. OtherwiSe; if trend continuest we .eould g.et- a situation like that at Worcester ;,Polytech• · wber.e arte~ . your freshmen year, if YOli ar:e not· in a fraternity, you do n.ot live on campus. Perhaps . fraternities should allowed to have as many brothers as they want, but not be given housing fot all of them. et them get housing for about 5 people and any other brothers take their chances in the hlttery like the rest ot us. The catalog says Union is a residential college,, but y(IU should not ~ve to join a fraternity in order to live on campus. Richard Zucker Flash Back To the Editors of Con· cordiensis: ., ,\V):~ .. a.re writing in response to :• ;~, <:~~~}~:.-.:·:·.'\ :~».·:-;-.'~;_.;.; .. ,::::,' ~· •'-'· •: X«<\V.•-:;~'\'W•'•'-'• • ,,. .-.- •• the· article which appeared in C()ncordiensis May 17, 1979 entitled \Flashback To Colombia\. The remarks that were quoted in the article were incorporated for form an in~ C(}rrect impressinn of the Term Abroad in COLOMBIA. Unfortunately, the article C()nveyed the feeling that the term in Colombia was like banging. your head against a wall: it felt good when it stopped. We did not go to Colombia for the sole purpose of being physically un- comfortable, and then to say afterwards that we became better persons for it. We went because we wanted to discover what -Jn Lating America was !ijt.e. True, .. there were many t~·to adjust to and it waa hard at times, but the term was . filled. with exciting and en· joyab~J~ as. well.. . . Col()lnbia JS an absolutely beautifUl country and the trips we took with Union and by ollrsel\Ves t'hr~h the majestic Andes Mountains were in'\ ere(lblti!l MQSt of us travele(l a gr$at deal tht:ougb:out the country. We visited different places - ranging from metropolitan· cities to tiny pueblos:, where the downtown is about the site of library plaza. We Hplayed tourist,. as wen ·as talked to all kinds of interesting people. We could go on forever about our t~ips, but suffice it to say they were FANTASTIC! The family aspect was also great. Aiot of Unionites developed very close relationships with their families which · really added to the Colombian experience. Despite the jokes we made about our family life, by in large we fit in well and really saw how the Latin American lives. (By the way; despite contrary beliefs, we did not live in straw huts! - After listening to the living conditions of the other Tenns Abroad, I think it would be safe to assume, we lived the rnost comfortably of all of them!) The courses we took at CEUCA were all worthwhile and intersting. The staff at CEUCA was helpful and friendly. Union carried on the \party tradition\ and made a great party for all at CEUCA at the end of thE term. The good and close relationships between CEUCA and Union also helped make the term outstanding. - You-cannot tell a person about Colombia without mentioning the people. Of course one will always encounter strange p. eople, but on the most.part the Colombians were friendly to the Union gringos. Colombians are thrilled when people want to learn a rout their country. They were always willing to talk to us and explain their country and clarify that Colombia is not \a poverty stricken South American country~·. In swnf this letWr intends to convey that the Term Abroad in Bogota, Colombia was a tremendous eiperienee. We all did see things at times that were hard to accept and w~ learned tmt the entire worlc is not like the United Statest but it should be emphasized that the term was not at all negative. It was a positive experience and we would not hesitate to recom- mend the term to anyone. It truly was the most worthwhile ten weeks of our lives. Sincerelyt Richard Simons '81 Dana Thau 1 81 Grammar To the Editor: The battle--weary few who still Continued Oil page r Commentary Housing Lottery Ever since the ... squatters' rights'' system for placing students in on-campus housing was abolished and the housing lottery invoked in its place, there has been an annual student outcry against per- ceived injustices of the housing system. This is not to imply that there never did exist complaints under the sq·uatters' rights system. There is only one dif- ference between the complaints of then and now: in the old system, complaints were maintained by individuals who felt they had been treated un- fakly, whereas in the new system, entire classes scream that they are \being screwed.\ The housing lottery has this year taken its perennial bad twist. The sophomore class, as the last to draw numbers and pick rooms for the next academic year, is furious not only over the scarcity of remaining \preferred\ rooms, but over the rumoured shortage of available rooms of any type. The sophomore class lottery, which was scheduled to take place last night, Wednesday, May 23, proceeded in an at- mosphere charged with these disappointments and hostilities. On Tuesday, May 22, Con- cordiensis interviewed Dean of Students R.H. Kellett and Director of Housing, Dave Wood, in an attempt to clarify the mystery surrounding the rumoured \bed shortage\ situation. In their explanations may be found some elucidation of the nature and extent of the problem as it stands, and, through this understanding, perhaps even enough reassurance to quell some of the sophomore class' alarm. According to Wood, the sophomore class, since the beginning of the lottery system has been the last group to choose accommodations. Squeezed between the freshmen who must have on-campus housing and the upperclassmen who also are treated preferentially in deference to their seniority. the sophomore class inevitably is the most frequently disappointed and, thus, the most prone to com- plain. Kellett and Wood realistically appraise the housing system as one which cannot possibly please all and so must strive to please as many students as it can. Then there exists the panic over the rumored shortage of housing available for sophomore occupancy. The rumor that there is a bed shortage of approximately eighty as the sophomore class goes to the lottery is w~ll­ founded. It is not, however, alnnrnr cause for unqualified outrage, panic, and condemnation of the planning short-sightedness of the Director of Housing's Of- fice. The actual shortage will not be kaown until all sophomores draw numbers in the Wednesday lottery. The figure of 80 beds short is a maximum number which is based upon the assumption that all eligible sophomores wjll in fact draw numbers in the lot- tery. As some of these people opt to live off campus, the pressure on dormitory space for the class will be eased. Things may be bad, but they are not as bad as they seem. The lambasting by students of the Housing Office is largely unjustified as it precedes, in many cases, an understanding of the dynamics behind the system of finding housing ac- commodations for a school's studeiit population. Wood af- forded Concordiensis some insights into several factors which impede the efficiency of the housing administration system. The overriding fact of the housing situation is that it is a truly dynamic phenomenon. The number, sex, and academic class of students who seek housing on campus fluctuates wildly from year to year and from term to term. People who opt to move off campus, people who leave the school and those who transfer in, students who travel abroad and seek ac- commodations upon their ret urn--all of these factors cause chaos in the housing plans. Facing an oversupply oi students for a limited supply of on-campus housing, Kellett and Wood claim that the major contingency plan for placing these excess people entails the utilization of the five-person suite. When asked if the three- person double was a con- sideration, Wood and Kellett insisted that this alternative was not a likely one. The five- person suite has been used by the College in the past in similar circumstances; it is a tem- porary solution which, when combined with the waiting list, theoretically le.ads to the relative satisfaction of the student with his-her living situation. When asked whether the College would consider the renting of hotel rooms to ac- commodate the resident overflow, both Kellett and Wood were elusive-this alternative does not seem to be high on their priority list. That the students most in- timately affected by this sophomore-last lottery policy are outraged by the shortage of Continued on page 10 Editors-in-Chief News Editors Layout Editors Feature Editors Associate Editor Business Editors Classified Editor Arts Editor Sports Editors Copy Edi~ors Photography Editor Fine Lines Editor Subscription Editors Staff Douglas Rosenfeld, Sara Sinunons Paul Feinsot, Melissa CragiJ) Matt Nagorsky, Dan Wojnilower Sue Barnhart, Donna Creeley David Rubin Carole Reinig, Gina Torrisi Roberta Moss Cindy Aranow Matt Kayne, Mark Palomba Pat Condello, Pam Ryan PatWrignt JanDeDeka Martha Rubenstein, Linda Owen Debbe Damrell, Steve Grill, Joanne Malin Sue Marr, Ellen Van Dyke CONCORDIENSIS is published every Thursday by the student body of Union College, Carnegie Hall, Schenectady, New york 12308; Publications Office: Susquehanna Publications, Inc., 8~ Reynolds Ave., Oneonta, New York 13820, (607) 432-6737. Entered in the Schenectady Post Office as third class matter. Subscription rate: 35 cents per copy, $10 per year, delivered anywhere in the United States.

Page 4. OONOORDIENSIS, May 24! .1~79 ' . Middle State's Energy Continued f-rom page 1 may hinge upon its response to instrwnents.\ The report cites the financial challenge of the lighting as a major source of energy crisis. The Saratoga waste of campus electrical Report's r~commendations, as energy. The committee con, quoted in the Middle States tends that \Hlwnination levels report, .reflect this concern: in classrooms and offices and \we believe a special 'Blue possibly also in dormitory Ribbon' committee should be rooms are considerably above formed now to begin long\range those necessary for safe and planning for Union's ultimate convenient operation of these conversion to alternate energy rooms.\ Out of this sprouts the sourc.es, with a goal of proposal to ·'reduce developing a totally self- illumination levels in sufficient community in terms classrooms and offices.\ of energy.\ Lights which are needles$ly The Middle States Energy left burning constitute a further Committee itself proposes drain on electrical energy. several recommendation which Hence, the proposal t0 ··install are in keeping with its sense of timer switches on al!J non- an overriding energy- essential lights.\ A third conservation necessity of the proposal, to ·'install pho·to- coilege. The first of these electric controlled cutouts'' reconunendations calls for the would further serve to stop formation of an Energy Con- electricity waste by servdtion Committee charged automatically shutting off lights with both ''organizing the in a room when light is at a various energy conservation sufficient level and there is no efforts on campus including a need for lamp usage. program of energy education\ A fourth proposal, to \limit and \initiating new ideas for elevator usage to the transport energy conservation that are of handicapped persons and either brought to the attention heavy equipment,\ is justified of the committee by outsiders or by the conunittee's ··considered are developed by the committee opinion that the use of these itself.\ elevators can be avoided about The proposal to establish a 90 per cent of the time.'' The \Program of Energy Con- target of this proposal is a servation Education\ is based reduction in the electricity upon the committee's con- usage of \three elevators in the elusion that \energy con- Science and Engineering servation has to be the concern Center.\ of everyone.\ The development The fifth and final proposal of of an \'energy conservation the committee in the area of ethic\' would begin in the electrical energy calls for a orientation period and find its need to \limit the use of support through campus media classrooms after daylight hours and residence advisors. to bona-fide group usage.\ The The proposal of an \Energy use by individual stud~nts of Action P-rogram'' ''that classrooms as study halls in the provides assistance to those nightime hours is deemed needing help in instituting wasteful by the committee. The energy conservation measures\ sentiment of the committee is is a recognition by the com- that \by limiting the number of mittee that a program without rooms to be used as evening responsible participants will not study halls, both electrical and work. Energy conservation . heating energy can be saved.' consciousness must couple VAV for S & E itself with active conservation Committee member Tougher efforts. ·A college-appointed instituted a study wherein he \energy coordinator for each determined that by replacing building,\ a person who \serves the constant air volume heating as the local 'in house' expert on and ventilating system in the energy conservation,\ the Science and Engineering Center committee proposes, would be with a variable air volume the core of this \Energy Action (VAV) system, a total annual Program.\ In the dorms, the savings of $41,333 could be committees points to the secured for the college. The residence advisors as the most capital cost of installing such a likely people to asswne this system is $175,000, and \thus role. the estimated payback period is The Energy Action Program, 4.23 years.\ the committee feels, cannot West Heat Loss succeed withou.t \administrative Committee member Kobert, follow-up and recognition.\ in her \West College Energy Responsiveness to repair Study, 1876-78,\ found that requests and rewards to \those energy loss in West college is who have made important incurred through over-heated contributions to energy con~ rooms, poor insulation in the servation on campus\ are building ceiling and boiler viewed by the committee as room, the leaving-open of necessary incentives within the windows and doors by oc- system. In the latter case, the cupants, the lack of storm committee maintains, \for windows. Along- with these example, a modest monthly findings, Ms. Kobert made award of $25-$50 could be given some recommendations for to the person or group of per- alleviating West College energy sons for the best suggestion for inefficiencies. Because Ms. energy conservation on cam- Kobert's recommendations are pus.\ more costuefficient than those Electricity proposed by the Saratoga The committee cites some Associates, the proper course of studies which have been con- action is for the moment ducted to investigate the nature . clouded. and extent of electricity usage Priorities on campus. It is felt that five The committee voices its electrical energyuconserving beliefs that the college is recommendations proposed by committed to instituting the conunittee, andbasedon the energy-saving programs. and findings of those studies, \can that there will be a wealth of produce an annual savings in ptoposals from which to choose. excess of $50,000'' and ''most of The problem then becomes, in the incurred costs can be the face of limited funding, a recovered within two years. question of determining 1.) Reduceinumination levels priorities, deciding which in classrooms and offices. The projects to pursue. In genet•al, first three proposals are aimed the committee supports the at cutting down on electricity payback criterion of priority. consumed through lighting, as setting. \Payback is achieved \a bulk of electrical energy when the sum of the anticipated usage (approx. 75 per cent) is cost savings is equal to the· used for li~hting and other initial capital cost;. the faster. general uses such as snack payback is achieved, the more machine motors and laboratory attractive the. given pr~j_ect.\. <I~ ...... ~.- ·--'r!~1:~:·~· .' ~W.~:i:···~.: _ ....... -:.., .. -; .... :.- .. ·::;.~ .,.;-.;·.J..t:i-..:.\'t\;~~\J.\'t: ........ ,!;~~.:~...i~:.·~);..;;, ... ~~;.Jt The committee advances \the following three criteria which must be kept in mind whenever any proposal is be.ing evaluated: l.) The innov,ation and-or machinery should not be beyond the te<\hnkat ability or sophistication of tne operators that will maintain it on a season-topseason basis; 2.) Recognizing that anticipated costs are far more likely to be sust•epti:ble to accurate t'stimation than projected savings, tile proposal should offer a large benefit-<·ost ratio. That is, the tangible dollar savings should aggrega.te to equal total costs in a relatively s~ort period of time. 3.) Adoption of a given energy- sa.,·ing measure could weU affect potential energy-saving benefits from other previously installed, or contemp]a,ted measures. Also, new technology or ehauging relative price movements could likewise naturally effect the benefit cost relationships of given energy- conservation measures; Once a given measure is adoptec:l the resulting benef-it-cost .ratios of the remaining projects under fimil consideration should be carefully reevaluated.\ Pr1_1ject Funding There are four prospective sources of fWldS for energy conservation projects: the annual operating budg¢t, government funding, capital fund campaigning, and the college endowment. The annual operating budget alternative features \feature annual budgets (which) contain a line item specifically for energy conservation projects.\ The proposal calls for a fixed percentage of the preceding year's energy bill to be im- plemented in the furthering of ' energy conservation projects of the subsequent year, and so exert a \form of control on future expenditures for heat and electricity.\ Continued on page 11 Taxes & On Tuesday, May 16, the Student Forum met to discuss Student Ta~, Student Activities, and proposed changes in the By- Laws of the Student Con- stitution. The Forurn also heard a report from the College Center Committee. The first item on the agenda was a proposal that would have established legislation for a Student Tax Contingency Fund. The sponsors of the proposal felt that a Contingency Fund, and the amount of money put in such a fund each year, should be legislated by the Forum as part of its overall .responsibility to ensure a balanced Student Activities budget each year. Those opposed to the proposal were satisfied witli the Tax Committee's efforts to traditionally set aside money for contingency purposes. The proposal failed by a vote .. of 4-8, with one abstention. The next item of business was a resolution that, \Only those Student Act-ivities whose Constitutions and budgets have been properly presented to and approved by the Student Forum shall be allowed to spend Student Activifles money starting July 1, 1979. Exceptions can be made on a case by case basis only by the Student Forum.\ The resolution, sponsored by Representative Wisoff, sought to reaffirm established rules of the Student Forum, which had been neglected for the past several years. , Those in favor of the resolution felt that it was nec~ssary foJi clubs and organiZations to have a written 1 .,:,_·\'ti' ~:,.:~ f~ ·~·,' ::.~h:~\ 'ct ,;~*,:0 'f, i-~;~1 \r._: .. J·I~f,1\ .1. 1> .1< /,.1 '-\\• I -> ·•·-.s~ Jl. · <f ..- , ' •-~ 4 ..... ... \\ ~.L. Boyer will serve a.s Honorary Chancellor on Jvne 17th. Commencement 1979 - Ernest L. B0yer, United States Commissioner of Education, will be honorary chancellor at commencement ceremonies marking the start of Uhton College's 185th year on Sunday, J·une 17. As honorary chancellor, Boyer will deliver the main commencement ad- dress. He also will be awarded _li-n honorary Doctor df Laws degree. Commencement ceremonies will begin at 10 a.m. Sunday at Library Plaza. Boyer, selected by President Carter to serve as the 23rd Commissioi'ter of Education in the 110-year history of HEW's Office of Education, was sworn in April l, 1977. AS com- missioner, Boyer presides over an organization of s·ome 3,000 persons with an annual budget of more than $10 billion and which funds more than 100 education programs. from the pre-school to the postdoctoral levels. Previously, Boyer served for seven years as· chancellor of the State University of New York, the largest university in the U.S., including 64 institutions with more than 350,000 students. He joined SUNY in 1965 as executive dean for university- wide activities and became vice chancellor in 1968. Others to be honored by Union College are: Charlotte M. Curtis, associate editor, The New York Times, Doctor of Letters; Frank M. Snowden, Jr., professor of classics, Howard University, Doctor of Letters; Lord C.P. Snow, writer and scientist, Doctor of Science; Joseph H. Hirshhorn, financier and art collector, Doctor of Humane Letters; Allan C. liamilton, treasurer, Exxon Corporation, Doctor of Laws; and William A. Walden, general counsel, Massachusetts General Hospital, Doctor of Laws. Bylaws Discus sed purpose, and they enumerated absentees, the proposal to up-to-date officer respoil- amend the By-Laws failed by sibilities in order to determine one vote to receive the funding and minimally· ensure necessary two-thirds approval the proper use of ftmds. The it needed. proponents also believed that Some concern had been ex·· the Committee on Committees pressed by students regarding and the Tax Committee have the changes in the 1979-80 given considerable notification academic calendar because to this year's club officers those ehanges had not been regarding the submission of communicated to the student new Constitutions and their body by the administration. A 1979-80 budget. Many Forum brief resolution expressing this members felt that the fair and concern was passed and ~opies . proper allocation and auditing of the resolution were sent to the of Student Activities money, Dean of Students and to the which is ultimately the F orwn's Registrar. responsibility, can not be The final agenda item was a achieved without the proper report presented by Debbe approval of Constitutions and Damrell, Chairperson of the Budgets (which has been the College Center Committee. The case in the past). report outlined recom- Much concern has been mendations tht the Committee focused around the operating will make for the future use of procedure and the budgetary Carnegie HalL Debbe fielded timetable of the Student Tax questions and cleared up some Committee in recent years. misunderstandings regarding Most Forum members hoped the purpose and operation -of the that the resolution would help Committee. I\ written report speed up the Student Activities will be available in the near budgetary process; certainly by future. next Fall. Following the disposition of After a motion to 1amend the the items on the agenda, the resolution by institutionalizing ForUll\held a closed session for it into a yearly practice was 45 minutes. narrowly defeated, 5-7, the The last regular meeting of original rsolution was passed the Student Forum this year with 9 voting in favor, 3 against, will take place on Wednesday, and 1 abstention. May 30 at 7:30 p.m. in·ss 110. The third item on the agenda Remaining b1,1Siness for the w:as a proposal to a!fiend the Forum this year includes: 1) By•Laws so as to remove the distribution, collection and Independent Student Coalition tabulation of Student Tax from its place in Student Surveys, 2) work to be done on Gove.rnment. No Forum . 301 Carnegie, the new .Student member present was opposed to Government room, 3) approval the proposal, ·but because there of various Club Constitutions were three abstentions and t~~ ...,_, M ......... \\'~q,~g,e.~_, .. o~,.l?;~-~ .lJ,, - giv ian by tot <Jf for mll l '*l tm WC 4 Wl' tw (

Page 4: CONCORDIENSIS, May 24, 1919 Middle State's Energy Continued from page l may hinge upon its response to the financial challenge of the energy crisis. The Saratoga Report's r~commendations, as quoted in the Middle States report, reflect this concern: \we believe a special 'Blue Ribbon' committee shou,ld be formed now to begin long-range planning for Union's ultimate conversion to alternate energy sources, with a goal of developing a totally self- sufficient cammunity in terms of energy.\ The Middle States Energy Committee itself proposes several reconunendation which are in keeping with its sense of an overriding energy- conservation necessity of the college. The first of these reconunendations calls for tne formation of an Energy Con- servdtion Conunittee charged with both \organizing the various energy conservation efforts on campus including a program of energy education\ and ''initiating new ideas for energy conservation that are either brought to the attention of the committee by outsiders or are developed by the committee itself.\ The proposal to establish a ·'Program of Energy Con- servation Education\ is based upon the committee's con- clusion that \energy con- servation has to be the concern of everyone.\ The development of an '\energy conservation ethic\' would begin in the orientation period and find its support through campus media and residence advisors. The proposal of an ''Energy Action Program\ \that provides assistance to those needing help in instituting energy conservation measures\ is a recognition by the com- mittee that a program without responsible participants will not work. Energy conservation consciousness must couple itself with active conservation efforts. A college-appointed \energy coordinator for each building,\ a person who \serves as the local 'in house' expert on energy conservation,\ the committee proposes, would be the core of this \Energy Action Program.'' In the dorms, the committees points to the residence advisors as the most likely people to assume this role. The Energy Action Program, the committee feels, cannot succeed without \administrative follow-up and recognition.\ Responsiveness to repair requests and rewards to \those who have made important contributions to energy con- servation on campus\ are viewed by the committee as necessary incentives within the system. In the latter case, the committee maintains, \for example, a modest monthly award of $25-$50 could be given to the person or group of per- sons for the best suggestion for energy conservation on cam- pus.\ Electricity The committee cites some studies which have been con- ducted to investigate the nature and extent of electricity usage on campus. It is felt that five electrical energy-conserving recommendations proposed by the committee, and based on the findings of those studies, \can produce an annual savings in excess of $50,000\ and \most of the incurred costs can be recovered within two years. 1.) Reduce Illumination levels in classrooms and offices. The first three proposals are aimed at cutting down on electricity consumed through lighting, as \a bulk of electrical energy usage (approx. 75 per cent) is used for lighting and other general uses such as snack machine motors and laboratory instrwnents.\ The report cites lighting as a major source of waste of campus electrical energy. The committee con- tends that \illumination levels in classrooms and offices and possibly also in darmitory rooms are considerably abovE' those Recessary for safe and ct<mvenient operation of these rooms.\ Out of this sprouts the proposal to ··reduce i llumi nation !eve ls in classrooms and offices.\ Lights which are needlessly left burning constitute a further drain on elec-trical energy. Hence, the proposal to \install timer switches on all non- essential lights.\ A third proposal, to \install photo- electric controlled cutouts\ would further serve to stop electricity waste by automatically shutting off lights in a room when ligi;Jt is at a sufficient level and there is no need for lamp usage. A fourth proposal, to \limit elevator usage to the transport of handicapped persons and heavy equipment,\ is justified by the conunittee's \considered opinion that the use of these elevators can be avoided about 90 per cent of the time.\ The target of this proposal is a reduction in the electricity usage of \three elevators in the Science and Engineering Center.\ The fifth and final proposal of the committee in the area of electrical energy calls for a need to \limit the use of classrooms after daylight hours to bona-fide group usage.\ The use by individual students of classrooms as study halls in the nightime hours is deemed wasteful by the committee. The sentiment of the committee is that \by limiting the number of rooms to be used as evening study halls, both electrical and heating energy can be saved.· VAV for S & E Committee member Tougher instituted a study wherein he determined that by replacing the constant air volwne heating and ventilating system in the Science and Engineering Center with a variable air volume rVAV J system, a total annual savings of $41,333 could be secured for the college. The capital cost of installing such a system is $175,000, and \thus the estimated payback period is 4.23 years.\ West Heat Loss Committee member Kobert, in her \West College Energy Study, 1876-78,\ found that energy loss in West college is incurred through over-heated rooms, poor insulation in the building ceiling and boiler room, the leaving-open of windows and doors by oc- cupants, the lack of storm windows. Along with these findings, Ms. Kobert made some recommendations for alleviating West College energy inefficiencies. Because Ms. Robert's recommendations are more cost-efficient than those proposed by the Saratoga Associates, the proper course of action is for the moment clouded. Priorities The committee voices its beliefs that the college is committed to instituting energy-saving programs and that there will be a wealth of proposals from which to choose. The problem then becomes, in the face of limited funding, a question of determining priorities, deciding which projects to pursue. In general, the committee supports the payback criterion of priority- setting. \Payback is achieved when the stun of the anticipated cost savings is equal to the initial capital cost; the faster payback is achieved, the more attractive the given project.\ t-'4 •'~''.Jfi!.,:. '0:·\' ·-~~ The committee advances \the following three criteria which must be kept iR mind whenever any proposal is being evaluated: 1.) The innovation and..gr machinery should not be beyond the technical ability or sophistication of the operators that will maintain it on a season-topseason basis; 2.) Recognizing that anticipated costs are far more likely to he susceptible to accurate estimation than projected savings, the proposal should offer a large benefit-cost ratio. That is, the tangible dollar savings should aggregate to equal total costs in a relatively short period of time. 3.) Adoption of a given energy- saving measure could well affect potential energy-saving benefits from other previously installed or contemplated measures. Also, new technology or changing relative price movements could likewise naturally effect the benefit cost relationships of given energy- conservation measures. Once a given measure is adopted the resulting benefit-cost ratios of the remaining projects under final consideration should be carefully reevaluated.\ Project Funding There are four prospective sources of funds for energy conservation projects: the annual operating budget, government funding, capital fund campaigning, and the college endowment. The annual operating budget alternative features \feature annual budgets (which) contain a line item specifically for energy conservation projects.\ The proposal calls for a fixed percentage of the preceding year's energy bill to be im- plemented in the furthering of energy conservation projects of the subsequent year, and so exert a ''form of control on future expenditures for heat and electricity.\ Continued on page 11 Taxes & On Tuesday, May 16, the Student Forum met to discuss Student Tax, Student Activities, and proposed changes in the By- Laws of the Student Con- stitution. The Forum also heard a report from the College Center Committee. The first item on the agenda was a proposal that would have established legislation for a Student Tax Contingency Fund. The sponsors of the proposal felt that a Contingency Fund, and the amount of money put in such a fund each year, should be legislated by the Forwn as part of its overall responsibility to ensure a balanced Student Activities budget each year. Those opposed to the proposal were satisfied with the Tax Committee's efforts to traditionally set aside money for contingency purposes. The proposal failed by a vote of 4-8, with one abstention. The next item of business was a resolution that, \Only those Student Activities whose Constitutions and budgets have been properly presented to and approved by the Student Forum shall be allowed to spend Student Activities money starting July 1, 1979. Exceptions can be made on a case by case basis only by tile Student Forum.\ The resolution, sponsored by Representative Wisoff, sought to reaffirm established rules of the Student Forum, which had been neglected for the past several years. Those in favor of the resolution felt that it was necessary for clubs and organizations t~ have a written ·: \ ! i .'' '~ -' : t . \ E.L. Boyer wi'lil serve as Honorary Chancellor on June i?th. C.ommencement - 1979 - Ernest L. BJyer. United States Commissioner of Education, will be honorary chancellor at commencement ceremonies marking the start of Ul!lOn Coliege's 185th year on Sunday, June 17. As honorary chancellor, Boyer will deliver the main commencement ad- dress. He also will be awarded an honorary Doctor df Laws degree. Commencement ceremonies will begin at 10 a.m. Sunday at Library Plaza. Boyer, selected by President Carter to serve as the 23rd Commissioner of Education in the 110-year history of HEW's Office of Education, was sworn in April 1, Ul77. As com- missioner, Boyer presides over an organization of some 3,000 persons with an annual budget of more than $10 billion and which funds more than 100 education programs from the pre-school to the postdoctoral levels. Previously, Boyer served for seven years as chancellor of the State University of New York, the largest university in the U.S., including 64 institutions with more than 350,000 students. He jo,ined SUNY in 1965 as executive dean for university- wide activities and became vice chancellor in 1968. Others to be honored by Union College are: Charlotte M. Curtis, associate editor, The New York Times, Doctor of Letters; Frank M. Snowden, Jr., professor of classics, Howard University, Doctor of Letters; Lord C.P. Snow. writer and scientist, Doctor of Science; Joseph H. Hirshhorn, financier and art collector, Doctor of Hwnane Letters; Allan C. Hamilton, treasurer, Exxon Corporation, Doctor of Laws; and William A. Walden, general counsel, Massachusetts General Hospital, Doctor of Laws. Bylaws Discussed purpose, and they enwnerated up-to-date officer respon· sibilities in order to detennine funding and minimally ensure the proper use of funds. The proponents also believed that the Committee on Committees and the Tax Committee have given considerable notification to this y~ar's club officers regarding the submission of new Constitutions and their 1979-80 budget. Many Forum members felt that the fair and proper allocation and auditing of Student Activities money, which is ultimately the Forum's responsibility, can not be achieved without the proper approval of Constitutions and Budgets (which has been the case in the past) .. Much concern has been focused around the opePating procedure and the budgetary timetable of the Student Tax Committee in recent years. Most Forum members hoped that the resolution would help speed up the Student Activities budgetary process, rertainly by next Fall. Aftera motion to 1amend the resolution by institutionalizing it into a yearly practice was narrowly defeated, 5-7, the original rsolution was passed with 9 voting in favor, 3 against, and 1 abstention. The third item on the agenda was a proposal to amend the By-Laws so as to remove the Independent Student Coalition from its place in Student Government. No Forum member present was opposed to the proposal, 'but because there were three abstentions and two absentees, the proposal to amend the By-Laws failed by one vote to receive the necessary two-thirds approval it needed. Sorne concern had been ex- pressed by students regarding the changes in the 1979-80 academic calendar because those changes had not been communicated to the student body by the administration. A brief resolution expressing this concern was passed and copies of the resolution were sent to the Dean of Students and to the Registrar. The final agenda item was a report presented by Debbe Damrell, Chairperson of the College Center Committee. The report outlined recom- mendations tht the Committee will make for the future use of Carnegie Hall. Debbe fielded questions and cleared up some misunderstandings regarding the purpose and operation of the Committee. I\ written report will be available in the near future. Following the disposition of the items on the agenda, the Forwn held a closed session for 45 minutes. The last regular meeting of the Student Forum this year will take place on Wednesday, May 30 at 7:30 p.m. in SS 110. Remaining business for the Forum this year includes: 1) distribution, collection and tabulation of Student Tax Surveys, 2) work to be done on 301 Carnegie, the new Student Government room, 3) approval of various Club Constitutions ., . , . _ , . . . _Co_ntinued on page 11 ., I giv1 lani by1 tot of for1 m.a SOil I· HI I tha wo 1 wr: tw~ ( inli pr~ I ' l

. . '· i . . ~~ ·~ : · .. \\' t ·\ \l'1 • :o t OONOORDlENSISj May .e~J 19'19 • • • - p tt .. ·. . . . . ; <··\~ __ f::.e··· .:.:_· ___ i,. ;··. ·-s\:w- -. . . . ' this enconrpasse$. . . . . . . . . ' . responsibllity.on everybody and - not just a few. Second Floor West ISA Discusses Human Rights by MELISSA CRAGIN Last week, the ISA held a human rights panel discussion featuring fout exiled people as · part of International Student Week. The panel of three men and one woman came to discuss the problems in their respectiV-e countries and the reasons for their exile. The countries represented were Argentina, . South Vietnam, Uganda, and the U.S.S.R. ) . Summer School Chan,ges DAY COURSES BIO 15~-Genetics and Evolution. Add Lab Fee of $20 .. . Lab. Sec. 51 meets Wed. 1:()().. 5:00, Sec. 52, Thu. 1:00-5:00. CHM 32,...()rganic Chemistry II. Lab. meets on Mon. & Tue. 1:00-5:00. · CllM 40--Quantitative Chemistry. Lab Sec. 51 meets Mon. & Wed., 1:00-5:00; Sec. S2 meets Tue. & Thu., 1:00-5:00. PHY H··lntroduction to Physics I. Sec. 51-Prof. Jones; Sec. 52-Prof. Schick. Phy 13--Introduction to Physics II. Sec. 51--Prof. . Newman. SOC 38-Sociology of Deviant 'Behavior-Cancelled. STAT tO--Introduction to $tatistics. Sec. 51-8:36-11:20. EVENING COURSES CLA 24--Greek and Civilization. Term Change-· Term IV, July 23,Aug. 24. . PHY 44--Introduction to Astronomy. Prof. Linscott. • ES 26-Thermodynamics _and Heat Transfer. Sec. 52-Mon., Tue., _ Thu., Fri .. ; 12:30-2:13:' Term V, J.uly 30-Sept. 7. Sec. 51- Mon., Toe., Thu.,_5:00-7:20. . ES 2~Mechanics 11. Mr. Milligan. Mon., Wed., Tbu., , 5:oo-8:00. Tetm V, July M-Sept. 'J, From Argentina was Mr. JGse Desdefani, a former seminarian. He came to the U.S. two and one half years ago after being kidnapped and held by the Argentinian government as a political prisoner. After ten years in a Catholic Seminary, Mr. Desdefani went with a few othe.r men, including_ an American Priest, to live as a poor person and to aid them. Then, with the coup of 1976, the governemnt thought that the Catholic Church was involved in the guerilla actions against them (because it was aiding the poor) and arrested Mr . Desdefani. As a result of pressure from international sources and the Catholic Church, he was given a deal to get out of jail and the country as well. Mr. Minh Ph em is now working for the Albany In· ternational Center. He has been in the U.S. for four years. Though he did not explain the reasons for his own exile, Mr. Phem did. explain some of the forms of oppression im- plemented by the Communist Vietnamese .government. He told ·- the audience that the government oppresses its people in the schools, through media censure, by imposition of a strict military draft, and by controlling the .shifting and the location of the ,populatiQn. Mr. Phem. reported that the Qp- pressive conditions have' worsened since his departure in April of 1975. _ . Professor Frederick Kakatnubo is now an economics professor at Empire State College in Albany. He had been a student and an army professional in uganda until the onset of the reign of Idi Amin. Prof. Kakamubo was blacklisted early in the '70's, since he was educated and bad been to the U.S. He was also involved in the resistance movements which ended in his exile here in the United States. Ms. Marina Shpirt is an engineer from the U.S.S.R. She differed from. the other three panelists in that . she was not politically involved in the Soviet Union; she did not recognize Communism. She did not speak of her individual exile, but explained that because of governmental brainwashing from their beginning, the people of the U.S.S.R. do not know their oppression. Ms. Shpirt said she herself did not see it until she was in the United States. She continued to ·describe Russian oppression, which strikes out against religion and race through education. As a whole, the panel was very interesting. Not many people attended the hour and a half presentation on human rights, yet the audience was pleased with the ptesentations. Seminar on human rights Thursday, May 24 , 1st Act: The Electric Blues Band 2nd Act: Mike Skliar and friends folk rock me's: Donny lucoff Barry Rosenberg Incidentals: Ronda Weinberger Shows at 9 & 11 Tickets on sale - 8 p.m. in Carnegie

Continued frocm page 3 give a damn about the way the language is used were cheered by the enlistment of Mr. Feinsot to the cause in the MayJ7 issue of · Coneordiensis. Un* fortWlately, although his heart may be pute, his arms sometimes miss the mark. It is no more correct to write ' 1 1 did net lay down on the job\ than it would be to write \I did worked on the job.'' The negation of can m:ay be written as either one word or two: ean not or cannot. Commas and periods are always within the final set of inverted commas in' American practice. . i Henry WatsonF{)wler Phon A Thon To All the Student Phonatbon Workers: tj~ght• the Sec10!lU night c~nlgr;atUlLattQns! thanks to the com- .uut,{.CC. : Laura Masailo ;79~ ;.,nll'll.rASax. '19, Matk'Seott '7~; Abhu'il$ 'llO; 'ViVian -~,- ......... u· ~oo; Seth MendelOWitz · Debbie Ruaoll)fi>*'32 ror help. CONCORDIENSIS, May 21,, 1!J!9 Page 5 etters '. , . \ ~ ' . ~ . ' . ·'. :. ' ' ' : •' East region. Followed by an intensive question and answer session, all of the participants enjoyed the professor's novel lecture. Both groups look forward to a continuathm of this type of affair. We also look forward to possU5le g~t togethers with other area colleges for the chance to hear timely lectures, exchange ideasJ and expand each of our programs, The IRC here at Union will pursue this type of affair as well as par· ticipating in Model United Nations Programs and presenting speakers of timely world events. A special thanks fr()m the IRC goes to Mohamed Raib-mi, the president of the ISA, for his support. Another special thanks goes to Don Humphries, an executive of the IRC, for an exceptional job in setting up the entire program. · Keith R. Cockerham President IRC Continued . ' '.. ,, '\ ,.·. ,,. . .;. ''·• '· . .•.. ... .·· . 1 ,,~~~~~'·<· .. \t•· .:r···'e·· ., ....•... , , •.. ,. · .. ·. ·. __ - .-·-:· __ ··, _.· .. .::;-. ;'•:-. ·- .. v ... --· ___ - _.· . system is Wljust. Students should not be billed as if the damage was due to their negligence. Th{)ugh students make an effort to police the d()r:mitories, this duty lies squarely with the Security and Safety Office, and the Residence Life Staff; The costs resulting from the inef- fectiveness of these ad· minisirative offices to curtail vamlalism should not he borne by students who are not responsible for damage done. We realize that the College, as a whole, must bear the cost of these infractions, but a more equitable system of fining must be found because the collective billing system, as constituted, is inherently unfair. We draw your attention to these matters in the hopes of improving the quality of life for the entire College community. We appreciate your time and consideration and have the ho-nor to remain respectfully yours, The Members of Second Floor West College Dormitory Amendment: It is not our intention. through these letters, to implicate the Director of Housing: We believe this policy to be a result of his superiors and he has simply been put in the wtfortunate position of enforcing it. We do, however, want to make it very evident to the college com~ munity that a great deal of displeasure exists. In essence, several questions must be asked: 1) Why was there a break· down of communications bet· ween the RA's and Mr. Wood? 2) Why were the students to be billed not informed when the incident occurred? 3) Why is the system so ar- bitrary. capricious, and haphazard? Is there no one on control? 4} Why hasn't the Dean of Students, Robert Kellett, taken a firm stand on this situation and become our spokesman for us? This is, after all, his job. What we propose in the way of reform is as follows: A 1 A requirement that communications be open bet- ween tht RA's and the Director of Housing to detennine where, when, why, and how the damage was caused and who was responsible. B) If the damage is traceable the individual(s) responsible would be made to pay for it in full. C) If the damage was not traceable, wherever it may be found, the cost shouid be divided equqlly among all students who live on campus, and other costs (i.e., damage to classroom buildings and grounds) should be divided among ALL students EQUALLY. It is our belief that this system would be much m()re feasible and fair and we hope that the implementation of these suggestions will be for· thcoming. A broad base, such as this encompasses, lays the responsibility on everybody and not just a few. Second Floor West ISA Discusses Hun1an Rights by MELISSA CRAGIN Last week, the ISA held a human rights panel discussion featuring four exiled people as part of International Student Week. The panel of three men and one woman came to discuss .,.h.,•·• the problems in their respective natio•n.:.:. , for damages to furniture in areas will be charged on a pro-- rated basis to all residents on the floor or wl.ng involved.\ It is our contention that this billing Sum.n«er School Changes DAY COURSES BIO 15--Genetics and Evolution. Add Lab Fee of $20 .. . Lab. Sec. 51 meets Wed. 1:00- 5:00, Sec. 52, Thu. 1:00..5:00. CHM 32-0rganic Chemistry II. Lab. meets on Mon. & Tue. 1:00.5:00. CHM 40--Quantitative Chemistry. Lab Sec. 51 meets Mon. & Wed., 1:00-5:00; Sec. 52 meets Tue. & Thu., 1:00-5:00. PHY 11--Introduction to Physics I. Sec. 51-Prof. Jones; Sec. 52-Prof. Schick. Phy 13--Introduction to Physics II. Sec. :H··Prof. Newman. SOC 38-Sociology of Deviant Behavior-Cancelled. STAT 10--lntroduction to Statistics. Sec. 51-8:30-11:2(!. EVENING COURSES CLA 24--Greek and Civilization. Term Change-- Term IV, July 23,Aug. 24. PHY 44--Introduction to Astronomy. Prof. Linscott. ES 26-Thennodynamics and Heat Transfer. Sec. 52-Mon., Tue., Thu., Fri., 12:30-2:15. Term V, July30-Sept. 7. Sec. 51- Mon., Tue., Thu., 5:00.7:20. ES 20-Mechanics II. Mr. Milligan. Mon., Wed., Tbu., 5:oo-8:00. Term V, July 30-Sept. 7. countries and the reasons for their exile. The countries represented were Argentina, South Vietnam, Uganda, and the U.S.S.R. From Argentina was Mr. Jose Desdefani, a former seminarian. He eame to the U.S. two and one half years ago after being kidnapped and held by the Argentinian government as a political prisoner. After ten years in a Catholic Seminary, Mr. Desdefani went with a few other men, including an American Priest, to live as a poor person and to aid them. Then, with the coup of 1976, the governemnt thought that the Catholic Church was involved in the guerilla actions against them (because it was aiding the poor) and arrested Mr . Desdefani. As a result of pressure from international sources and the Catholic Church, he was given a deal to get out of jail and the country as well. Mr. Minh Ph em is now working for the Albany In- ternational Center. He has been in the U.S. for four years. Though he did not explain the reasons for his own exile, Mr. Phem did explain some of the forms of oppression im· plemented by the Communist Vietnamese government. He told the audience that the government oppresses its people in the schools, through media censure, by imposition of a strict military draft, and by controlling the shifting and the location of the population. Mr. Phem reported that the op- pressive conditions have • worsened since his departure in April of 1975. Professor Frederick Kakamubo is now an economics professor at Empire State College in Albany. He had been a student and an army professional in Uganda until the onset of the reign of Idi Amin. Prof. Kakamubo was blacklisted early in the '70's, since he was educated and had been to the U.S. He was also ir.volved in the resistance movements which ended in his exile here in the United States. Ms. Marina Shpirt is an engineer from the U.S.S.R. She differed from the other three panelists in that she was not politically involved in the Soviet Union; she did not recognize Communism. She did not speak of her individual exile, but explained that because of governmental brainwashing from their beginning, the people of the U.S.S.R. do not know their oppression. Ms. Shpirt said she herself did not see it until she was in the United States. She continued to describe Russian oppression, which strikes out against religion and race through education. As a whole, the panel was very interesting. Not many people attended the hour and a half presentation on hwnan rights, yet the audience was pleased with the ptesentations. Thursday, May 24 1st Act: The Electric Blues Band 2nd Act: Mike Skliar and friends folk rock me's: Danny Lucoff Barry Rosenberg lncidenta\s: Ronda Weinberger Shows at 9 & 11 Tickets on sale - 8 p.m. in Carnegie

,. ' l ·. Page 6 OONCORDIENSIS, May 24,.1979 .art6 ''T' , I ryout • IS a Success If you have not already purchased your tickets for \The Try-Out,\ then you had better hurry over to the Nott Box Office. The tickets are selling fast, and rightfully so since it is a splendid performance on everyone's behalf. The script, written by Gary Glauber, captures the inner emotions of people in their day- to-day existence. He ap- proaches it in a personal manner and, through his directing, .causes it to touch very close to home with most all members of the audience. The acting was superb!' The high quality of the acting aided greatly to. the play's appearing as realistic and honest as it did. The emotions expressed by all of he actors was done with such talent that even while sitting in the audience you were in touch with the feelings being ex- pressed. You could feel the lump in your throat, the tears in your eyes, and hear the spon- taneous outbursts of laughter from yourself and your friends. Chip Baker was especially good in his portrayal of 'the confused and emotion~l playwright, Evan. The personal expression and honesty he exemplified is equal in all respects to that of person who was in the position in real life. And, certainly there was no one sexier or more alluring than Verna Lowe as actress Lydia. She definitely outdid herself in this role. If Nina Stengel didn'tremind you of your older sister, telling you how to face reality, then you obviously are an only child. or the oldest child in your family! And, George Siletsky certainly shocked everyone as the rich, young lawyer, as it is definitely contrasting with his past loud and burly roles. Freshman, ·Natalie Barafides held her nwn among all the rest .as the dominate female director, also. She should 'be commended for _her bravery in tackling such a difficult role. The set lent itseU beautifully to its purpose of forming two apartments, across the hall from one another, and the deC!orating in the -opening scene foreshadows perfectly the personalities of the apartments respective occupants. Overall the production is a genuine success and all who participated should be praised. ''The Try-Out'' is the first original production to be per- formed here in the past decade, and its success certainly offers added encouragement to all Summer Jazz ''Up North~., The Newport Jazz Festival returns to the Saratoga Per- forming Arts Center at Saratoga Springs, New York, on June 30 and July 1 in two 12-hour programs entitled \Jazz Today and Tomorrow\. The amazing success of last year's initial Festival appearance at Saratoga ha.s focused attention on what can be done to equal the historic programs on the 1978 Festival. George Wein, Festival Producer, accepts the chall~nge and says \The programs we have prepared for this year at Saratoga . might well surpass those of 1978.'' - Herb Chesbrough, Executive Director of the Saratoga Per- forming Arts 'Center, co-m-· mented \We are very excited about the return of the New port Jazz Festival to Saratoga. The response in 1978 was over- whelming and we are looking forward to an: even better two- £ 0 0 ..c Q: day Festival this year.\ Improvements in this year's Festival w~ll include better handling of traffic and an ablllldance of food and drinks. This year -will feature non- stop music from Noon to Midnight (see attached schedule for list of artists ap- pearing) and 56 booths of in- credible handmade and designed cra.fts. Weaving, wootlworki,ng, leather-worKs, jewelry, pottery, blown glass, stained glass, soft sculpture, , batik, pewter Jpinning, wood instruments, wooden toys and many other crafts will be on display and for sale. The ar- tisans will be at the booths to answer questions. These . two days will provide a total festival atmosphere. Brochures about the 1979 Newport Jazz Festival-New York can be obtained by writing P.O. J3ox 1169, Ansonia Station, ~ew York, New York 10023'-or calling 212-787-2020 (New York.) and 518-587.-3330 (Saratoga). Oi1 line for tood at the Clambar othertalented students to follow Gary's e~runple in the future. It also should prove to be the beginning ·Of a very profitable career for Gary himself. Gary Glauber deserves an extra round of applause for the .highly ,professional job he has do~e in writing and d.ir.ecting thts play. Seeing_ it truly provi~es an enj~y:able evening m whtch you may vecy easily find yourself lost within the drama and fallen_victim to the honesty of the many emotions that are portrayed. C oncert•.goer s eagerly awaiting the 1979 summer music festivals in the region now have a means .of preparing themselves-a non•cr.edit course at Union called \Surveying the. 1979 Summer Music Festivals.'' BOOK REVIEW:- I Primer It starts Tuesday, May 22, and classes will be held from 7:30 to 9:30 p.m. eight evenings. The instructor is Angela .Fitz- patrick, progr-aiilmer and announcer at WMHT-FM, and former education director of the Saratoga Performing Atts Center. Women. C·an Waif The course Will focus on tile major works to ~e heard and seen at SPAC, Marlboro, U.ke George, _ Tanglewood and elSewhere in tile~ region. ''We hope to provide participants with information which Will heighten their enjoyment and understanding of the music available to them during the summer,\ Fitz;patrick said. The sessions will deal with the following topics: A book by Terri Schultz First-time mothers over 30 are no longer considered od- dities. Middle-class, urban women , are marrying later, working longer, and delaying childbirth until their mid- or late 30~s. It is believed that the trend will continue as women of the post-war baby · boom mature; while birth rates for women in younger age groups continue to decline, the birth rates for women 30-39 increased 5-10 percent in 1976. It is said. that for many women, the rewards of motherhood are sweeter with age, and that the maternal urge is stronger in the older mother, especially if she only has a few years left to produce. WOMEN CAN WAIT explores the experience . of mature motherhood in all its facets: emotional, medical, and practical. In case histQries and in personal interviews with do2ens of women between the ages -of 21f and 40, women c~n- fide their true feelings about: Wai:ting--the reasons why . they delay motherliood De.cidin:g--the s-pecific emotions and events that prompted the decision to have a .baby now Mothering-how the presence oLa baby in their lives changes their work, their relationships with men and friends, their feelings about themselves . The medical issues of older motherhood are illuminated with the most recent, up-to-date facts and studies. ' This is a book that' will in- for-m, reassure and pleasantly surprise women who are now making the big deci$ion in their lives: Should they delay motherhood, and bow Will the experience change their lives? The women in this book will help them decide. · · PUBLICATION DATE: June 22, 1979 PAGES: 216 PRICE: $4.95 \ Session I: A survey of the summer .. festivals and \a programmatic ancrlysis witb musical examples,\ Fitzpatrick says.' Session II: \Perceiving the Ballet.\ Session III: Cboral music at Tim.g1ewood, SPAC, and :Marlboro; the works of Men- delsohn, Haydn, Bach, Berlioz, Bartok and Beethoven. Session IV: \The Chamber Recital\-a study of the smaller festivals. Session V: W-.h.«? is the ''leading compo.ser'' represented at this summer's . festivalS? An -in-depth study of that composer. Session Vr: The Classicism of \f>on Giovanni,\ .and the \Barber of Seville,\ including a recital-lecture and guest per- formance. · Session VII: A look at guest artists .and guest conductors. Session VIII: Attendance at a working rehearsaL More inhrmation can be obtained from the Graduate Studies and Continuing Education office, Wells House 1 1 Union Ave., Schenectady, N.Y., ~7()-6288. Tuition is $50. .P.Mer Sellers .in lhe .Re·turn ::• ·\' ,· .. t':'· ' Starring Gene KellY ' of t-h·e · Pink Panther · May25- 27 Fri. '10 p.m. Sat. & Sun. 7, 9: 15 & 11: JOp.m. - $1.25- S$616 Ao American in Paris Tuesday, May 29 _?, 9, 11 p.m. $.75 · SS016 - art Pe1 lJ'nion I pvivileged t with the t]P!1Jt of Jo• ' qucr·. dynaHnC . P echoes that ·u-11 This yea1 prizes to th Feet\ and< Brian Pea~ poems .are

ulture Performers for Camp Union l)nion Co;llege will be pliivHeged this SB;turday night, with th.e A:mencan college dP~;Jt of Joe Jack&on. One may quer: . ''Who. is he·''? A dyn~H ne . perfor\!l~r his . style echoes that of Elvts Costella and Graham Parker. Jackson hails irom Great Britain where he has toured fr!>m club to club, developing and refining his engrossingly unpredictable lyrical edge. Look _·Sharp, Jackson's Uni_~n Poetry This year the American Academy of Poets at Union awarded prizes to three students. Neil Skolnik's \Tr~nsition in a Thousand Feet\ and Claire Kennedy's ''City Man Dance\ split the first prize. Brian Peake's ''The Dive'' won Honorable Mention. The winning poems are printed below. · . Transition iil a Thousand Feet White tipped waves Unfold onto·the shore, Etched against blacl{ness Beating, rising then - Falling With gentle .power Breaking on the sand Soft and moist Horne of shells of Ancient life, - Sand, slowly sloping~ Upward, drying Mixing with Glass and fine Fertile soil. Blades of grass Growing in patches Taking root Amidst tire tracks And tin cans, ' Small trees Growing scattered Separated by Six incpes Of concrete < ·From Highway One-forty-one. -Neil Skolnik City M.-&.n: Dante Man, yo,;r \Strut Slick statcato Stride, cutting Res~apes space. Quickness, flash Form.; eye- Syncopate: Your walk A dance, Street rise- Become stage. -claire Kennedy The Dive - Looking over the edge I can see a little .girl painting polka dots red yellow green blue They are beautiful. I'm taking a dive into one of those dots. Spfoing1 What am I doing in this manhole? -Brian Peake J premier album has been widely accl.aimed, estalllishing him as a .significant and exciting new talent. The albwn itself has a magnetic appeal for those whQ enjoy a tight band with a sharp biting voca:l. Jackson's music is .generally sophisticated rhyth- mic rock and roll, but several tunes submit to- his romantic tendency, consequently giving his music a dose of gen:tle self- deflating irony. hl coQcert Jackson is electric, boasting a _ magnaniinous personality. In additiO:n to Jackson's ap- pearance, Richard Belzer, comedian, whose credits in• elude: The Groove Tube, S~tutday Night, and National t..ampoon Show, will be per• forming. . Among the events of Camp Union, an afternoon of rousing, rocking pop and jazz will be provided .by the accomplished club and concert performer, Li:v:ingston Taylor. After the days festivities, Look Shar, in the intimate at~ mosphere of Memorial Chapel and contribute to an event that will prove to be a new and different experience. Constance Urdang and Donald Finkel of Washington University in St. Louis gave a reading_ of their poetry on Tuesday, May 15. Constance Urdang was the first to read. Dressed in a conservative gray, and with a voice which could be · said to resemble the shuffle of dry papers, she read ooems that packed a sarcastic punch into the breadbaskets of .the com· placent. The two great themes of the peoms that she read were about women's place in the world, and the stagnation in suburbia. Personally, I enjoyed Ms. Urdang's poetry because it was clear and easily un- derstood; also, having grownup in suburbia, it was in the range of my e:lq)erience. Those who are fans of Donald · Finkel might say that his poetry is more biting, more sarcastic, and more cynical than Ms. Urdang's, which I would say it is. But unfortunately it also lacks the straightforwardness of Ms. Urdan.g's in reading. The subject of each poem bad to be explained before its reading, and twice he was forced to in- terrupt -a poem ~o explain a crucial fact. His explanations grew long winded. LLvingston Taylor entertains on Sunday If these two poets could be said to be representative of American poetical thought, they might be called cynidsts; they are cynical in their opinions on American society (stagnation in suburbia), the American life style (women's place in America), and in Don Finkel's case, the problems of progress (his poems about the cruelty · of experiments with animals), and the searth of Midnight Reading Come wondering into Jackson's Gardens this Friday night for a midnight poetry and prose reading .. Bring o~ong your work to read under the candle o,nd moonlight. value placed on beauty. · All in all, it was an enjoyable poetry reading, and the two poets are undoubtably two of the finer American poets Wine and cheese wil.l be served. writing today. One who reads their poetry can not fail to see man's inhumanity to the world he lives in, and the people he lives with. 1 ............................................ _ ...................•..•...•............ . . . . . . : Anyone with . •· . .. . • • • • • • • . • 0 • • . • ex.per1ence or . • . • • • • • . • • • talent (performer • • • • • I survived • . .. . • . -the Long March • • • me) . .. or • without you, • • . • • but my heart called to you • . • . • interested • . as we fled, in dread, not burying • 1n . 0 . • • the dead. • . • • my eyes whispered • •. • performing • . • 1n . their fear to you • . • . • • in the cold night • . • • • Orientation . and your image rose every morning • • . . behind each mountain • • • . . • and I climbed • . • • • Cabaret • . after an illusion, still alive. • . . • • • . • . September • I remember rivers- • • • • . mighty rivers crossed, • • . • - . • • and those that once caressed • 15, 16, 17, 18 • • or • the stillness we shared. • • • • • • . please • -Debbie Pelham • contact • • • • • • • • .. • Liz ·Catalano i Thanks to all contributors to Fineliii.es this year-and don't forget ! :we '11 need you next year too! Have a good summer. : • • : Sincerely, : io 6837~ i Jan DeDeka : • Finelines EditoF : • • • • ' ~ - - . ~~••••••e•••••••••••o•••••••••••••••••~o•e••••'•••••••••o••t•••••o••••~•·•~••••' ' ' '

' ' Page 8 CONOORDIENSIS~ M~y 24,1979 1 1 ----Aro,und Campus.-., ~- Psi Chi The efforts of psychology majors such as Hoby Ebert, Bob Pollardand especially Lori Walter have not gone t.o waste. After more than a year of hard work and frustration, a Union College chapter of Psi Chi was officially initiated on Tuesday, May 22. Psi Chi (that's not Chi Psi! ) is the national honQr society for Psychology; its purpose is to advance . the science of psychology; and to encourage, stimulate, and maintain scholarship of the individual members in all fields, _ particularly in psychology. Tl1lrty-four chapter members were initiated in the formal ritual and these students were selected based upon scholarship and-or outstanding work in the field of psychology. Officers for the 19'19-80 school year are Danny Wojnilower (president), Steven Geller (vice president), and Harry Adamakos {secretary-treasurer). Dr. Rudy V. Nydegger is the faculty sponsor. One tunction to still be held this term is the joint Psychology Department-Psi Chi ~Picnic which will be held next week. Information will be posted so be on the lookout.:..we hope to see you there! Gates men Congratulations to . the following people who have been accepted into the Gatesmen Society. Class of '82'-Marla Band, Debbie Bronstein, D:onna Creeley, Francine Davis, David Eppler, Eileen Goodman, Timothy Mara, Sue Marr, Seth Oringher, Sven Paul, Ed Pietman, Nancy Roberts, Brian Shea and Steven Tuckman. Class of '81'-Susan Ascher, Jeff Capelle, Cynthia Champ- ney, Tony DiGregorio, Beth Dorogusker, William Fried- man, Nancy Gagliano, Helene Grossberg, Katie Martin, Roberta Moss, Richard Roth, Hannah Schwartz, Richard Simons, Susan Teitelbaum, Craig Williams and Jim Zalucki. Class of '80'-Denise Boucher, Missy Camby, Jeffrey Gerst, Lisa Katz, Lisa Klein and Kevin Murdock. Since the competition was keen, we were unable to give po_sitions to a number of qualified applicants. We en- courage you to apply again next year. Health Programs Two graduate degree programs offered .by Union College's Health Studies Center- -an M.S. in health planning and policy, and an M.B.A. in health systems management--have· been admitted to associate membership in the Association of University of Programs in Health Administration. Eugene Schneller, center director, said that programs are admitted to associate membership by a vote of the as-sociation's board and by member insituttions. Thirty- seven graduate programs have been admitted since 1968. Membership is a step toward accreditation by the Ac· crediting Commission · on Education for Health Services. and Administrations, which in turn makes an institution eligible for ·certain types of federal funds, Schneller said. , \ Edward Horn will present a seminar -based upon his research in toxi.cology and environmental protection. The title of his presentation is. · · Te two degree programs Gffereq by the Health Studies Center, which is part of Union's Institute of Administration and Management,- provide training in two distinct areas in health · ''Toxic Substances: Impacts on Fish and Wildlife.'' care. - · Dr. Horn is presently ~hief of the Bureau of Environmental Protection Division .of Fish and Wildlife ':. Department of E:n- vironmental Conservation in Albany, New York. His research is pertinent to ·the The M.S. in health planning and policy is -de'signed for students seeking careers in health planning and-or policy agencies. The two-year program includes 16 courses op such topics as epidemiology'· · health economics, pl~nn.ing,. and statistics, and has a required20-week internship at a health systems agency, plan- ning corfimission or at state health department offices_. ·problems confronting our en,. vironrnent, and would be of interest ·to those concerned with what's happening tod{lY~ This seminar sponsored by the Chemistry Club will be held at 7: 30 p.m. in SS · 112. All in- terested persons are invited to The M.B.A. is for students seeking careers as ad- ministrators in hospitals, clinics, health maintenance. organizations, nursing homes or similar institutions. Management techniques are emphasized, and courses in- clude those in financial ac- counting, behavioral science, statistics, and systems analysis. It is also a two-year program, and. a minimum 10- week internship is required. · attend. There will be a general meeting for all Chemistry Club Teaching and advising faculty is drawn from the In- stitute of Administration and Management, Union College, Albany Medical College, and from professionals in the New York State Health Department and other Capital . District health agencies. Cqnsumer Sales Consumer sales throu~h direct-response marketing will be the topic of a lecture Thur- sday, May 24 at Union College. The speaker is David: Savage, senior . vice-president of Mc- Cann-Erickson, Inc., a leading international advertising agency with headquarters· in New York. Savage formerly was a marketing exe'Ctltive at RCA and CBS. · His talk, titled \The $80 Billion Market-and Growing,'' will focus on the dynamic growth in direct-response marketing, including the emerging electronic systems allowing consumers to shop .at home. The talk will be at 4 p.m. Thursday in Room 207, Bailey Hall, and the public is invited. Juniors!· There will be an imnortant meeting on Tuesday, May 28, 1979 at, 4:00 p.m. in SS 016 to alert you to the nature of the applications, eligibility and procedures for applying for national Fellowships {D~forth, Fulbright, Marshall, Rhodes, and Watson Travelling Fellowships etc.), tenable after graduation in 1980. Information on graduate school standard examinations (e.g. GRE, G- MA T etc). will also be . available: This is a chance to become acquainted with the different faculty ~dvisors c and ask questions. Please attend this meeting if any of these opportun~ties interest you. _ ' \\\ Exp·ose This Tue~day, May 29th, ·or. members afterwards. ·- Hickok House Hickok House, an all male dorm on Lenox Road will next year house two dissimilar fraternal organizations, the Black Student's Alliance, and the fraternity Kappa Sigma, plus independents. This is the first official housing for Kappa' Sigma, andit is only temporary houstng, pending housing fin- ding a permanent area to house the' fraternity in. The Black Student's Alliance has been housed permanently on the upper floors of Hickok House. Unfortunately, there have been some problems . with Hickok House due to Housings inadequate information.. The BSA was not certain what the Housing offic~ had given Kappa Sigma, and the fraternity was not certain what they had been given by the Housing office. Through talks between Dave Wood, the BSA, and the representatives of Kappa- Sigma, the organizations are now clear what will be whose. The two lounges will be open to all occupants of Hickok;- and will be posted when they are to be used for meetings of the organizations. The cooking facilities will be open to all, and the housing office has promised to supply a second, stove to accomodate the students. The major problem at the moment rests with the furnishings of Hickok, which include, in the bottom l()unge, no furniture, but a pool table,'and in the upper lounge, a few chairs and a T.V. The fraternity has been for- bidden to furnish the lounges, as. this would, to the eyes of other ~residents in Hickok, make it seem like a fraternity lounge rather than an open lounge. As of now, there have been no arrangements made for fur- nishing these lounges. Due to a misunderstanding brought on by the inadequate information · given , to the organizations by Housing, there was some question as to whether or not Kappa Sigma would be able to house with the BSA.and get along~ but since the misunderstanding has been cleared up by the patience of.the BSA and Kappa Sigma, and through talks with the Housing Office, it is expected that the ~omingyear Will b~ pleasant for aU-li'IJing in Hickok Holl$e~ RenovatiOn . • • Contiuued1from page 1 faculty for next year, con- struction could take place ''with a minumum of disruption\ to classes. Lastly, Professor Bush would. like the work to\-be completed by June 1980 when Union will have a new Arts chairman. · There have been. some · questions. on the campus about this last point in regard· to the direction to be taken under the new chairman, but Prof. Bush stresses that ·the new con- structi<>n is not being done for her.· She recognizes-'that the proposal is a statement of ''immec;tiat~ . needs,\ and \a small beginning of correcting a woeful ina~e.quacy. \Con- stniction could begin this summer-, and could be done by April,\ she stated op- timisti'caUy. Finally, . the. departmen~ chairman relate?: ''wefeel un1te<t.,~sa department that whatever chtection the arts takes these are essential elements.\ Calendar~ Change Notic'e is~ given that the fall term 1979-80 calendar has been altered from the ·one published in the 1978-79 catalog. The change is in accordance with a recommendation made to the A-dministration by the College Senate. The revised calendar f:;llows: September 15, Saturday-~ Residence halls open at -noon. September 15 thmugh 18, S!'lturday through Tuesday-- Freshman orientation. September 17 through 19, Monday through Wednesday.:. Fall term registration. September 19, Wednesday- Classes begin. September 25, Tuesday-Last day for changes in schedule. ·I October 19 through 21, Friday through Surtday-Hpmecoming weekend. . November 21 thrm.-gh 25, Wednesday through Sunday- Thanksgiving recess. November 26, Monday-- Classes resume. November 30, Friday-- Regular classes end. December 3, Monday-Fall term exams .begin. December 7, Friday-Exams end, recess begins. . D~cember 8, Saturday-- Resil;lence halls close at noon. ?What t'he Hell's Going On? / Thursday, MayZ4 AES Colloquium-Mr. David Savage will talk about \The 80 Billion Dollar Market--and Growing.\ 4.:00 p.m.,. im 207. Speaker~Ramsey. Clark. 7~00 p.m., SS 016; \The Try-out.\ Tickets are U .50 weekdays, $2.00 on weekends. 8:00p.m., Nott. Speaker-Dr. Martin White will speak on Chinese Human Rights. 8:00p.m., SS 016. Lecture--Bariesh Hoffman . will talk abOut \All>ert Ein- stein: Glimpses of the Man and His Work.\ 9:00 p.m., SS Olfi. Friday, May 25 Philosophy Dept. Colloquium- · Prof. W, Earle will discuss \Mysticism and Reason.\ 3:30 p .. m., HU 213. \The Try-out.'' Tickets are $1.50 weekdays and $2.00 on weekends. 8:00 .p.m., Nott. Movie-\Return of the Pink Panther.\ Admission is $1.25. 10:00 p.m., SS 016. Saturday, May 26 CAMP UNION!! ! All day, West Beach. Movie-\Return of the Pink ' Panther.'' Adinission is $l.25y7, 9:15, & 11:30 p.m:., ss 016 .. \The Try-out.\ Tickets are $1.50 weekdays_ and $2.00 weekends. 8:00 p.m., Nott. Sunday, May 27 \The Try-out.\ Tickets are $1.50 weekdays and $2.00 on weekends. 8':.00 p.m., Nott. Friday, June 1 Sunset Coffeehouse-Moth & Star. Jacksm}'s. Gardens. Saturday, June 2 Gbem Club Open Picnic. 12:00 noon, Girling Center. /~Engineering Picnic .. 2:00 p.m., Jackson's Gardens. Union College Jazz En· semble. 8:30 p.m., Memorial Chapel. 499 2nd E

- for the • of \a g a cm- h·is by :>p- . :•he. ~st: ent rts ial ast lay ing 25, IY- y-- y-- 'all ms y-- on. lay, 'ink iy7, are !.00 are on I& ~:00 :00 :!:n- rial -----------------------------~---~------~--~C~O~N~C~O~R~·~D~IE=~·~~S=lS~,~M==a~y·~B~4,~1-9_1~9---------------------------------------~--~Pag~ RESTAURANT GUIDE ...... __ DIN·ING S'UGGESTIONS Welcome Parents p :ERRINO\S FOR RESTAURANT \ GR.A:DUATION WE:EKEND And Cocktail Lounge Phone 374-4515 Ralph Perrino Proprietor 2015 Rosa Road Schenectady, N.Y. 12309 DINING & RATHSKELLAR BANQUET FACILITIES STEAKS AND SEAFOOD Lunch served Tues.- Fri. 11 a.m. to 2:30p.m. Dinners: TueJ thru Thurs 5 p.m. to 10 p.m. Fri.& Sat. 'ti'll1 p.m.- Sunda)3 2to 9 1------·-_,.---~ · Closed Mondays 499 2nd Ave. North Troy, N.Y. 235-2656 The Pumkin Patclt ~ Featur.ing Steaks and Seafood Open from 11:00 u nt·i I 5:00 for Lunch Din·ner Monday thru Thursday -·5:00-1 0:00. Friday & Satll_rday 5:00-11:00 We accept MasterChatge and Visa Reservations are always a good idea Corner of Eastern Pkwy. & McClellan St .. ,393-2186 Welcome Union College Parents and Students for Graduation Weekend 120 Lake Hill Rd. Old. Homestead Bill Hall & Ken Renaud Your Hosts Burnt Hills Mandarin Szechuan Hunan 399-91 39 Country Kitchen Restaurant Catonese 1028 State St., Schenectady, N.Y. Tel (518) 370-0160 Featuring: Vittles-Sippin' Spirits For Lunch: .beacon 1 s Lunch, Granny's Special, Papa's Favorite For Dinner: Steaks, Turkey Shortcake, Skillet Chicken, Seafood, Fresh Hot Buiscuits Hot Apple Crisp, Hot Apple Pie Welcome Parents & Graduates Open 7 days a week Banquet Facilities Takeout Orders Daily 10:30a.m.-10: 30p.m., Sun. 1: 30-9p.m. Make Reservations For Graduation Weekend Wh.at is Uncle Ted up to t':~ ? now. Sunday Brunch 10-1 EXPANDING! IT'S BEAUTIFUL. We've doubled our size- new additional facilities for open dining, banquets, luncheons. business meetings. receptions. showers or reunionR. And th~ Food? StjH the best around! p .S. We've doubled our off-street parking! New Dining Room Open Fridav and Saturday Night . - Ted Barnes' BxbaW .Inn \- . 1 10 STATE STRRET- DowntownSchenedady 'Phone 372 .. 5252 ~o!deH2,...a9on -.·-· CHINESE &AMERICAN RESTAURANT \Over 100 Varieties of Gourmet Chinese Food\ Private Banq.uet & Meeting Rooms Available Mon. thru Thurs. Special Businessmen's luncheons Beuatiful Cocktail Lounge . - FAST SERVICE TO TAKE OUT ORDERS Open HA.M. to 11 P.M. Mon. thru Sat, Sun. tilllO P.M. ............. Major Credi.t Cards Accepted ... ~ Plen.tyof Free.Parking \ 2035 STATE ST cor .. s(~!~~~~~~~~t~:~~ Ra74,;.5773 . . Schenectady, N.Y. TANG CHUNG, CHEF 30 Years Experience In The Culina;y Arts ' iJ:\ «r. ~ EXCELLENT • ~ /.~ Ht.j • DIFFERENT CHINESE- POLYNESIAN Al\lERICAN Luncheons & Dinners- Exotic & Island Drinks Accommodations For Private Parties Orders To TakeOut! Bank Cards Honored Opetl 7 Days .A Week .. 377-6637 or377-138.6 ' l20MOHAWKAVE. (RTS.5&50) SCOTIA, N.Y.

Page 10 OONOORJ)IENSIS, May 24, 19'19 classifiet>s BULLETIN BOARD Application forms for Suton, Porter a.nd §~eir :Scholarships are avallable from Professor Joseph Board, Social Sciences Building, room .216. These scholarships are awarded to graduates of Union College who plan to attend Albany Law Schoo. Applications are due by July 14, 1~79. Th~ English Department will hold tts annual spring picnic in Jackson's Gardens on Friday June 1, .from 4:UO until dark' There will be food, drink, and fun at this Springtime Satur- nalia (there will be a small charge for the beer). Everyone is welcome! · Amnesty ht.ternatlonal presents Ramesy Clark, Thursday, May :n, 7 : 00 p.m., SS016. The former U.S. At- torney General will speak on the current situation in Iran. Co- sponsored by the Political Science, Economics, and History Departments. PLACEMENi ·----- LONDOI\i MJ:TALS EX- CHANGE, INC.-are seeking qualified applicants for their company to travel the United States at their eqense to serve as field representatives. They are interested in applicants with s~les aptitudes who are interested in sliinmer or a longer term position. Please call Irene Schoen (201) 444-1321 for further inform.ation. They have office at 172 Franklin Avenue, Ridgew()od, N.J. PROVIDENT MUTUAL LIFE INSURAN(:E COMPANY OF PHILADELPHIA, 24 Aviation Road, A.lbany, New York (513 )-458-7020, have openings in their Sales and Sales ManagemEnt Program at this time. Please contact Mr. C. Arthur Wood, Nianager, Wood Associates, on {518)458-7020. WINWARD POOL BUILDERS, IN<!., 1730 Chrislar Avenue, Scllenectady--is seeking an indi'vidual for their Management Trainee position. Salary $11,500. Please send your resume .to Janis Debenedetti, Winward Pool Builders, Inc., 1730 Chrislar Avenue, Schenectady, N.Y. Further information is available in Placement. Office, 122 Park Avenue, Schenectady! New Yori. O.D. HECK liAS EIG.HT POSITIONS AVAILABLE, GRADE 7 and 11-:Provisional appointments. for 18 :r;nonths-to start as soon as possible .for Me~tal Hygiene Therapy, Assistant Trainee and Mental Hygiene Therapy Assistant One. in . the Autism Day Program and Residential Unit for aU three shifts working with autistic adolescence and children. Send resume to Dr. Barry Warren, Autistic Program, O.D. Heck, Balltown and Consul Road, SchenecUidy. ALL STATE INSURANCE IS SEEKING A COMPTROLLER ANALYST. This person should b~ knowledgeable in Math and Fmance. Would be doing statistical analyst work com- piling research data and reports and also presentation regarding these figures. This is a Staff Position. Person should have MS:Math with equivalent ex- penence or an MBA. Person should be willing to. relocate. , Salary is negotiable. Please mail your resume to Mr. Curtis Rowe, All State Insurance 99 Garnsey Road, Pittsford New York 14534. · ' ROOMS/ROO MATES 2 rooms in a 4 bedroom apt a~ailable .for fall and possibly wmter tenn. 2 livingrooms fireplace, large modem kit: chen. $55-month. Female only. Call 370-6706 or 370-6541. SUMMER SUBLET-·2 bedroom, living room, kitchen, bathroom, porch. Fully fur- nished. Call 372-5593 for Dave. SUMMER SUBLET available for three people fully fmnished- ·on University Place call Andy at 370-6719. HELP WANTED d· ~IfY student, faculty, a mtmstration or staff membe inte~ested in volunteering th services as ushers or usheret at commencement exercis rs eir tes es oe . are requested to contact J Zolner (370-6061) or to stop t~e Student Development 0 flct:, . Carnegie Hall and pla theu name on a list post there. Commencement · exe cises are on Sunday, June 17 10:00 AM and all volunte ushers and usherettes will ha to report to Library Plaza Aehilles Rink if it rains. An questions should be directed by f. ce ed r- at er ve or y to Joe Zolner. FOR SALE n e For Sale: For~ 1971 LTD .. 105~000 mile:; ... light gree ~ody-black vinyl roof ... 2 new tires . . . good condition insid . and out . . . 400 V -8 engine. . . 2 e · spare tires . . . no rust . . . engin excellent ... Price: $900 or bes offer. . . . Call- Judy at 393•76$3 t . , Furniture for Sale: Pleas e ·. call 377-0225 if interested. PERSONALS ' Cinder~: Cheeseboogie, pepsi . frenc-h frtes . . . oops, I mean · Chips. 1 P.C.: And you think I'll stil be your friend when you won't share in the boredom? DWH: Will you sleep on the beach with me if the fleas don't bite? Great White: Doing anything this weekend? Wanna take a ride and blow the carbon off my s~ark P.lugs? (Nudge, nudge, wmk, wink, say no more! ) PSK (LS), Musketeers and the rest of the \gang\: I may be graduating but you're not getting r~d of me that easily. I shall return! A ROWDY GATOR p.s. DPTBA (real live) PSLS!! PHsons needed to deliver N.Y. Times fall term. Call Dave Siegel at 372-5593 for further information. JOB OPENING-•The \Gentle Giant'': Thanks lots and lots for everything over the past two tenns! I'll always remember it. Love, Pam (p.s. no-I'm not buttering you up for any favors!) A Jeep, a tent, a keg, some barbecued chicken and YOU- shat more could I ask?! Your ''pear\ . Residence Life Office is looking for a responsible student to work in the Student Mailroom this summer. The job will begin on or around June 11th. In- cluded will be a short training. program. The job will finish up approximately on September SCHENECTADY 24th. . CHILDREN'S HOME has an REQUIREMENTS: Able to Porthos : Still looking for · a jo~? Well, II_lY grandfather has th1s acrylic ranch in the mountains of IrP-land, and I hear he's looking for shearers to help with the summer harvest. ~? e:xpelience necessary, and 1t s a great chance to travel ( coventions and all! ) · opening for a Child CareW orker work approximately 3-4 hours who would be working with per day, including Saturdays. ad()lescent bo:vs, .J.D.'s and DUTIES: Primarily, for- PU'l'S. Counseling. Please send warding mail. your resume to Merle Brand- Interested persons should wene, Schenectady Children's contact Diane Elliott in . the 1 _~..,....\'P\7\Z'A~-~~~~!!I!: Residence Life Office, located • in Old Gym Hall, between 8:30 v_,.,., and 4:45 P.M. I've got a never ending love for you ... DUTCH HOLLOW PUB IS~~;'it CLofh~~~ J€wel~ Pho\e fS181 310 6050 37{)60!>1 Friday 5:00 · 7:00 Outdoor Pic~:~ic Hamburgers, hatdogs Beer Come to the Pub Bar-B-Q for dinner this Friday I VEGEES UNITE-CHE . WON A SOYBEAN , ' Love, Brucie P .S. Have a great summer and keep in touch. Free thought is illogical Hug Some Body Ms. P. Moose--Is the re a very eone different good -word for e '' I like you because you can shOw me a good time and I can show you a gooa time and we don't even have :to be doing anything. day? We might wear out th- we have now. I Dear Cheeky : · Have spoken with Ralph lately a all the partying you'-ve don far this term? Love, Nates you bout e so - Jo;Ann-how about ano ther t-he clandestine tryst in darkroom? Nudge, nudge. J.E .. ·Haddad-When are going to make a public sho you w of ally those great photos ·( especi the ones of me)? Tuss. · . Cheeks-by the light of ~1lvery moon I often ask my if there are any ultimate the self an- our . swers, or if we must base on empirical evide faith nee. hole Then at other times the w thing appears half-assed. Lori Walter--Thanxl--The Chi Union College chapter of Psi Grinch: No . . isn't t hat obvious? Fredrico-Welcome to AM- C! !-Jack San Francisco-Ev.eryone' s a my eat Winnebago. You take breath away. Have a gr sujmer. Dancmt Man To All My Friends who ma de on- mpt my years at Union so w derful, this is a meager atte at thanks! Randy · Jasper-You little devil yo u- Max Dear Fred, Since this is yo ur er• nd -A last chance to receive a p · · sonal, here goes: I love you a am going to miss you a lQt. ~lsohn: Yo~ and yo m~crofages Will. be great rmssed. Good luck with yo ur ly ur publishing career. ~\ Joe--8'later. Hey Fury-Fhanks...-Fury Ron (CAP G ..... T.V. or not you're all dg)lt. See you in .~ year at AMG.-Flam.()t Matt-Here's to two· years past, t~o girls futW'e, two great guys like us .present, and four more dynamite years to come Roomie · PSK--Thanks for your hospitality this year. I can honestly say that I'm DPT· BAP.SI.-The crazy one. Yo Lefton-Keep smilin'. It's b~ena long ye&r!--The 4 o'clock kid. Jackie-Have a therapeutic relaxation. Lionize it and I'll vis.uaUze you presently. Un1quely me. . Little one-To your future and Dina's sanity. Have a nice summer. Woody To the Class of Hl79- Soon we'll be out amid the cold world strife, Soon we'll be sliding down the razor blade of life. But as we g() our sordid separate. ways, We shaU ne'er forget thee ghose golden college days. Tom 0. I like you because you hold m~ up and I hold you up and neither one of us tips over. PSK (LS) : Proud to be one of you! Thanks! EvD Pat: Slide much?! Kelly-~Happy Birthday on June 5th!! D, S, .M, ~-You are one of the greatest fnends and still will be next bear even if we're miles apart!! A: Remember, when t he S-Thanks for putting up with it me for three tenns and for u having the courage to try three ?efense. starts gett~g rough, h em wtth the clincher-- YO HATE ME! As for me, it's ni ce • more! D to have somebody . . . Fred M. Man, Another one! Lov e, Ms. Lady C.L., I never knew that yo were so interested in politics u ! M-8tick with it and it will all pay off! And thanks for being my friend! D ' Housing· Lottery • • • P.T.--Your sister, you brother-in-law, your othe r · Continued from page 3 r. r · on-campus acq«)mrnodations is understandable, and it is their sister, your motper, you . brother, your other brother .. and all the lonely females wh have any sense. D4-T, Stop peeping! DA!!! 0 right. As_people who pay tuition to ~ten~ this purportedly \residential\ college, t}lere is justification to tbeir disgust over ~avin~. no acceptable .places m which to reside. That the · sophomore class is Monkey spit and friends, love disgruntled over their ''op· those alligators! - pression\ at the bands of the lottery system is a sorry con- F., What kind of drink did you sequence of the fact that nobody want? as o! yet has developed a Lee P .-We figure you'd come up short-sincerely: Barbara, Ellen, Joanne, Jeanett, Mary and Vicki. ~ousmg system which can please all involved. This fate they must accept as their predecessors. have--and theY are entitled to shout about it as loudly as we did...;until someone JoJo--Life is situational. devi$es a better system. · Remember Bruce But at the same time, must a housing shortage eXist every Dave: · · year? While it is in the school's There once was a guy fina~cial interest to fill every named Dave. habitable roQm, might not it be · With the women he was more socially beneficial for really a rave. them to risk leaving some But this is not totally true. ro~ms emJ?tY instead of gam- A correction is clue. ~ling agam~t leaving some · $Mo\<'i\Q Po.(a~nern<\\\Cl \ \J ...t( He was really a whoreson pe~ple? out m the cold-and ._. H>·.,·.; ~~· .. .~. ~~m;W 10 1 !..--- ----·-~:._....::__.......::, __ , ___ _.~ t~~ay~. . . . .. . •losmg. ,..._,.~- ,3~.~,~~:;.lf.'1'it,.t~~~~..,:.~::r~\S.Jl.:r.\·:J~?k . .o:~z:-~\'f.w;..O( ~- ...... ,..'\'o-_\_:···.·l-~-...-\ .~ _ L.a\ byTl The Unio1 team ended winning ~tyl orientated Colgate Uni' 23-20 and College by games we1 oppo~Wnts . twowinsgh for the seas two or·ttm could have just a touc chnlen squ; credit for i TheColg; of shooting the best combined£ total of 43 g Neil Kann~ gear right whistle, n1 period l unassistec scored tw< period. Kanner< period wit! assist frm Two goah along wit Steiner, Ji Romer g halftime assessed : second P' capitalizec once. lnt by and The. M~ are almm year's c behind t: Albrecht< Grotz an face the 1 Blue Teai pitcher R glove\ Mulpeter, John Be Miller. I surprisin1 Ins Ad1 Special ofcour sum mE ACCO Nil 140 Nl\110 Nl\203 ACC 11 ST 10- . AM. 110 ST 11 - ACC 11 (Prereq• Nl\150 Nl\110 Nl\245 · ACC II (Prime MBA~ Nil 14 CP 201 Nil 2(] QuE Cor BaJ

r s c d xt II or • • • is is ble is on· a as one a be for .Page 11 CO.NCORDIENSIS, May ~4, 1979 6port5. - \ Laxmen Firlish ·Strong;. End .. Season at ~ ~ by TIM SPLLIVAN The Union ,College Lacrosse team ended its 1979 campaign in winning style, taking an offense orientated . game against Colgate University by a score of 23-20 and nipping. Har~vvick College by a 9-8 score. Both games were played . on the 0 pporrents home field. These two wins give Union a 5-9 record for the season, and, considering two or - three other losses that could have been victories with just a touch cOf luck, the Dut- chmen squad deserves a lot of credit for its efforts. In the third period, two g~als each by Romer and Fischmann _ _J)long with goals by Kanner and Sherman of~set five Colgate . .goals and Umon led 16-12 at the The Colgate game was a case of shooting hard and hoping for the best as I the two teams combined for an J,lilusually high total of 43 goals. Leading scorer Neil K~nnet . shifted into high gear rtght from the opening whistle, netting all four first period Union goals, all · unassisted no less. Colgate scored two goals in the first period. Kanner opened up the second period with his fifth g 0 al on an assist from Rob Fisclunann. Two goals by Rob Sherman alo?g wi~h sco:es by Greg Stemer, Jtm Wright, and Rich Romer gave Union a 10-7 · halftime lead. Union was assessed six penalties in the second period, but Colgate capitalized for a score only once. end of the peri,od. · . In the fourth period Union Jacked the score up to 23-t7 on three goals by Wright and two each by KanHer and Romer. A last dttch effort by Colgate produced-two goals in the .final minute ()f play but the cloek · reached the inevitable 0:00 mark and Union had a 23-20 victory. Neil Kanner tallied 8 goals and 2 assists on the day fqr an impressive ten point totaL Rich Romer came up with his best performance of the seasoa, a 5 goal 3 assist effort. Rob Sher- man, Jim Wright, and Rob Fischmann .each added three goals for the Dutchmen. Alan -Greenberg made fifteen saves and his replacem_ent Randy Feldman added three saves. A hostile Hartwick crowd greeted our laxmen high above the hills of Oneonta {You know \I'd rather be in Oneonta where life .is careless and sublime,. And . you can party when you want to, and go to classes half ,the time.\ Todd Miller '78). With b!ickgrountl chants of \offensive ·and often times abusive hyperbole per- me:ating the air, Union jwnped out to a 3.o0 lead on a score by Neil Kanner at.d successive scores by Jim Wright. Three more scores in the secon<i period offset a lone Hartwick goal to give Union a 6-1 halftime lead. Alan Greenberg made eight saves in t~e· Union nets. ' In the third period. a goal by Kanner and two by Rob Fiscb- mann, all on assists from Jim Wright, gave Union a 9-6 lead which 'held up untU three minutes left in the game. Colgate cut the lead to two with thr.ee minutes togo and the fin~ll g~.l was score1i at 0:45 to give Unwn a clos~ 9:8 victory. Kanner and Wright led the scoring with three goals apiece while Fisclunann added two and Romer one. Thus concludes the 1979 lacrosse season, one which saw Alan Greenberg sparkle in the goal as he was almost always unaer pressure from opposing attackmen. He did much to make up for the inexperienced Union defense (none with varsity experience) and for his efforts was accoladed · as tlle teams most valuable player. NeilKanner-enjoyed a banner year. aroun-d the goalmouth, scormg 44 goals and adding 23 assists .for a total of 67 points in but fourteen ~ames. Union Union Union UNION Union UNION Union UNION Union UNION UNION UNION Union UNION Lacross~ Final Record (5-9) + 8 12 6 7 4 10 10 7 4 3 7 13 23 9 ADELPHI MORGAN STATE SIENA St. Lawrence GENESEO Brockport . MIDDLEBURY Albany State RPI Syracuse Hamilton Williams COLGATE Hartwick +Team in capitals is home team~ 18 4 11 ' 20 12 15 11 6 15 28 5 15 20 8 . Freshman Jim Wright was impressive in his first year, showing good ball control and lacrosse sense, finishing with 19 , goals and 9 assists ih his last twelve games. his first season as a first line midfielder. Junior Rich Romer rejoined the lacrosse program after a year absence and was a key scorer with 20 goals · and 7 assists in his last twelve games. Junior Rob Sherman scored ,10 goals and added 6 assists in Next year Coach Meagher and the Dutchmen laxmen anticipate of experiences in everyone's pocket. Along with captains Sherman, Romer, and Kanner, players to be counted on next year include Fisch- mann, Wright, P. Knapp, B. Sullivan, and T. Talbott. A void which will be difficult to fill is that left by Alan Greenberg in the nets. '79 Softballathon If you happened to be walking provided the players with good by Daley Field at 4 a.m. last hwnor and conversation. To the Tuesday night you might have Union College Food Service for noticed im interesting . if not providing coffee and donuts in unprecedented . phenomenon. the morning. , To McNearr.y · · For there, under peeing skies Beer for supplying a free keg of and mud swept terrain stood Schlitz. To all the fans who Intra murals -Thi's Week· by MIKE SCOTT and ED MARRIN AN The. Men's Softball leagues are almost ready to crown this year's champions. Fiji -A, behind the pitching . of Bill Albrecht and the hitting of Dave Grotz and Jim Stoothoff will face the undefeated Sigma Chi Blue Team. The Sigs are led by pitcher Rick Mirabito, ''golden glove\ shortstop Mike Mulpeter, ,and the big bats of John Bonventre and Keith Miller. In the B league, the surprising Sigma Chi Com- mandoes, with stars, Steve Wasserman, Pete Charkalis, and Eric \the Commander\ Goidel wait in the finals for any one of: the Panteras, who sport the big stick of Lee Parish, Phi Sig Red, or the Hicks. Sometime next week, the A league champ will face the B league champ in the Urtion College World. Superbowl of SoftbalL There is also a rumor in the com- missioner's office that the faculty want to play the A league champ for a keg of beer. In other softball action, the Big Red Machine, led by Bill ' - Institute of ' Administration and Management Certificate Programs Special certificate programs are available this summer m a vanety of course combinations. The certificate can l:>e gained in one summer -of study · ACCOUNTING/MANAGEMENt INFORMATION SYSTEMS Nil 140 - Introduction to Computers in Management Nil I 1 0 - Financial Accounting Nil 203 - Applied Statistics and Systems Simulation ACC I II ~ Managerial Aspects of Cost Accounting ACCOUNTING/STATISTICS ST 10 - Introduction to Statistics · AM 1 I 0 - Fi11ancial Accounting ST I 1 - Elementary Statistical Methods ACC II I - Managerial Aspects of Cost Accounting ACCOUNTING/MANAGEMENT (Prerequisite: Computer language knowledge) AM 150 - Fundamentals of Behavioral Science . , AM I I 0 - Financial Accounting , Nil 245 - Management Information Systems · ACC II I - Managerial Aspects of Cost Accounting ~ QUANTITATIVE METHODS PREPARATION (Primarily for those with liberal arts backgrounds; not open to Union College MBA Students) Nil 140 - Introduction to Computers in Management CP 200 - Quantitative Methods in Administration 1/11 AM 203 - Applied StatisUcs. and Syi;tems Simulation Questions? ~ Cont,act Jo Morecroft., .Assistant Director Jenkins, leads the Co-Ree league with a 3-0 record. They are closely followed by the Bogus Baseballers at 3-1. The undefeated DG CCR's lead their women's league. Andy Tallmer and Greg Pattenaude have done an outstanding job of running the softball leagues this spring. Thanks q.nd Congratulations for a job well done. Elsewhere in intramurals, the . volleyball playoffs will start next week. Delta Phi, Fiji, Sigma Chi Blue and either D Chi or the Mr. D's will be vying for the top spot. The frisbee playoffs begin Monday and the probable pairings will be the undefeated Sigma Chi team led by Chris Walsh, Pete Van- Valldnburgh, and Carl Seiden vs. Fiji B, and Fiji A vs. the Crispy Critters. Psi U and AD Phi lead the men's lacrosse league with 2-1 records. A note to all intramural laxmen: the games on June 6 have been cancell.ed. The season will end on May 27 with play9ffs t'Obegin shortly thereafter. The men's tennis tourney is ·still in prng.ress. - This Saturday at 12 noon, there will be a cycle race. The race will be approximately 4 miles in lenght and there will be both men's and w<Jm-en' s divisions; sign-up is in the in- tramural office by Friday. The outdoor track meet will be on June 3 and the ever popular canoe jousting wPl take place on June 2. Check in at the in- tramural af.fice' .for fudher details. Pictures will be tc:Jken this Tuesday . at Alwnni Gym for: twenty drenched fraternity showed up to watch the game in members, beers in one hand progress. Finally, to all those and mitts on the other, all en- _who have pledged their Easter deavoring in a neighborly game Seals donations to the brothers of softball. of 'both houses. This was no ordinary softball Delta Phi won the game 23 4- game. This was the Second Annual Phi Delta Theta-Delta 233 by scoring two runs in the Phi Softballathon. The purpose bottom of the 126th and last fth 24 h t · inning. Both teams played so o e our game was o ratse haphazardl·y for much of the funds for the Easter Seals F d t\ A · 1 game that it was too bad oun a Ion. pprmumate Y one somebody had to win. p· hl' Delta thousand dollars has been pledged from the college and · was out in front by forty runs city communities. after only eight hours of play The brothers of Phi Delta and but D. Phi chipped -away at the Delta Phi wish to express their l~ad throughout the night and thanks to the following fmally caught up .in the early businesses and individuals who morning. The lead seesawed helped make this year's Soft- throughout the morning no ballathon a success. Pizza Hut team leading by more tha~ ten for their generous contribution runs at any time. Phi Delt went of $600 worth of pizza which ahead by one in' the top of the f 1 d th 1 126th but the tired D. Phi bats ue e · e P ayers, umpires, punched out three suc\\essi'vo and fans throughout the game. hi \' ~ U.S. Tobacco for their pledge of · ts to give them the margin of five dollars per hour to sponsor victory· Members of both Dan May'fQr his determination h~uses enjoyed participating in to umpire the entire game, thus the game and helping to raise raising $120 dollars for Easter money for Easter Seals. They Seals. To all the girls who look forward to-1980 and a third umrired intwo hour shifts; they annual. I Middle States ~ i • Money is available for the next three-year period for federal f~nding of energy ~onservatlon programs un- dertaken by schools. \These grants wiU generally cover up to 50 p~rcent of costs and will be administered by local state agencies.'' The cotnmittee expresses its certainty that a fund-raising campaign is to come soon at Union and \recommends that Continued from page 4 funds for energy conservation projects al~o be solicited., \Due to the severity· of the situation and the exgected high rate of return from such in- v~stments relative to current y1elds on the bond market the committee is unanimous i~ its recommendation th.at the colle;ge seriously consider fundmg those projects that ~uarantee substantial savings m energy and money with en- dowment funds.\ · All Fall Champions at 3:00; All Winter Champlons at 3:30; All Spring Champi·ons at 4:00. Please show up on time. Taxes & Bylows . ~· . presented by the Committe~ on ...-------,...--------. Committees, 4) approval of Looking for Summer 1979-80 Club and Committee Housing?· • . .Look no more ; . budge~ presented by the Tax Live at Chi Psi Lodge. $15 per Comrmttee, 5) disposition of week·for spacious room; kitchen Forum . sub-committees, 6) facilities, television, and bar. appro~al .of Committee on Open to all Union College Comnuttees appointments for Students. For information, n~xt year; 7) general con- please call Ken Plumb or Kevin · Slder~tior;a of a new Student __ lllllilll ______ ..... ..__ ....... ..._ ... _____ _. Korm<>ildy at 382-9029. • • . Con~tt\ytlon, _8) considerations ....._ ___________ __. for fil.ling next year's office of Bail~y Hall, Room 206 ... -37~:...6239 Continued-from page 4 Secretary and the soon to be vacated pQsition of SeniQI' Class Representative, and 9) the transition of officers. Whatever bl!siness the Forum does not conclude this year, (especially, approval of Constitutions Budgets an~ Appointments)' n~xt year's For.un will hav<:! t~ p1ck up very early in the F all Term. ~ .. ·'

.,-, Page 12. OONCORDIENSIS, May 24, 1979 ·- - . sports Track Trio Travels to IC4A Meet: Scheuer 6th In IC4A's Three senior track stars represented Union College in the prestigious IC4A Meet at Pbilade.phia's Franklin Field- Kevin Scheuer, Matt Blum, and Earl Chilton. This trio will again represent Union later on this week as they will head to Baldwin Wallace University and the NCAA Div. III Track and Field Championships. his career best of 3:46.8 ft'om Saturday's qualifying round. On Sunday, he came back in slower fashion turning in a 3:47:5 behind the eventual winner, Don Paige who went the race in 3:43.7. As Scheuer pointed out to a Schenectady Gazette spo.rts reporter, ''The pace was slow going out ... We picked it up through the three-quarters in 3:03. 1t was sort of a kicker's race and I was on the losing end.\ The slow fractions which Scheuer was referringto were a 1 :02 first quarter and a 2.:04 first half. Baldwin Wallace University. Scheuer is counting on a repeat, or improvement of his qualifying time on Saturday when he was clocked in 3:46:8. ••Kevin wilfhav:e to come in at least 3:45 this week in order to qualify for the Division I c·hampionships next week,'' observed Coach James. Als.o compeUng in . the · Nationals will be Earl Chilton, . § high and triple Jumper, and co Matt Blum· who have both looked impressive of late. Semifimtl competition is set for Friday and the finals will be run on Saturday. Star trackster Kevin Scheuer Before· the meet, Scheuer appeared to have regained hiS old form, thus. recovering from a mid~seasonslump. He brought a mark of 3:48 into his event, the 'I500 meter run. In the IC4A's he needed a fully~autornatic timed 3:45 (10 or better to earn a spot in the Division I Championships next month. It was to be his fourth IC4A Meet. Last spring, he finished seventh in the 800 meter run and, this past winter, he took fourth in the same run with a career best of 4:06.76. The slow pace seemed to surprise Scheuer who, the day before, had been involved in the fastest 1,500 in IC4A history in spite of inclement weather. The race in question was led to the half in 1 :56, and finished up a meet record and the second fastest t1me in NCAA liistory, a 3:38.5 by Villanova's Sydney Mare e. Cortland Wins 3-1: Basehallers Drop ECAC Dee ..... ·\L.I' Also representing Union in the IC4A's was Matt Blum, hurdler, who has run the 120- yard highs in 14;5, and Earl Chilton, triple jumper, who was injured most of the outdoor season after jumping 48-•Piz' indoors. In the IC4A's, Scheuer placed 6th. He was foiled by an ex- tremely lethargic early half of the race, which usually opens the door for late kickers. He had entered the finals of the event as the third-fastest qualifier with In that race, Scheuer finiShed up an overall third running the mile equivalent of 4:03.5, three seconds under his personal best. At the IC4A's, also, Matt Blum finished fifth in his heat of the 110 meter high hurdles with a time of 15.1 seconds, On Friday of this week, Scheuer, Blum, and Chilton will perform in their respective· events at the NCAA's at Znckerbraun Scores Three: After finishing the regular season with >five straight wins, the Union baseball team bowed 3·1last Friday to Cortland State in the ECAC Upstate New York Division. II-III tournament. Having recorded a · 12·9 regular season log, the Dut- chmen were making their first appearance in post-season ECAC play. Cortland posted an Ruggers ·Downed by Berkshire 6 - 3 by TONY WARD ThiS past Saturday, Union Rugby traveled to Massachusetts to play the formidable Berkshire Rugby Club. Barely recovered from Beta Grain, Fiji Island, and the Sig Chi Clambake, the U-Coll. ruggers took to the field against Berkshire. Despite the self-imposed handicaps on the Union side, the ruggers played a tight game. At the end of the first half, the score stood at 6-3, Berkshire over Union. The second half went scoreless although Union threatened quite a few t~es. Union's 3 points came from a fine penalty kick by newly• elected co-captain Dave Zuc- ckerbraun. Although Union's win-loss record at the end of the season stands at 3 and 4 it is not in- dicative of their overall per- formance as is attested to by the fact that Union rugby scored 49 points total while the op- position's points combined reached a mere 29. Incumbent co-captains Tony Ward and Chip Fenn stepped down astwo new captains, Dave Zuckerbraurt and Eric Levine, were elected to guide Union Rugby in its Fall, 19'19 season. The Rugby Team would like to take this chance to thank all those who carne out to support the club during the season. The team also wants to urge all those Union students (with· masochistic tendencies) who woul<i like to play the fine game of rugby to come on out in the Autumn. SPRING 1979 UNION RUGBY CLUB Stan- ding: Mike Sharp, Oave Zaltos, '?on Lipp- man, Joe Cardino, L. to .R. Jeff Pontzky, Lee Waxman, Chip Fenn (co-capt.), Dan May, Tony Wai\di (cO·capt.), Dave Zuckerbrau.,, JaY' L~tzky, Dan Marcus, Cliff Cohen, -Oat:~· Tannenbaum, Jim Jones, Marty White, Jeff Heisler, Cliff Farrell. Kneeling: Matt Carley, Harry Peebles, Dan. Johnson, Ken Ap- plebaum, L to R. c. Wendell Hayden, Scott Shirken, Matt Van Benthein, Mark Snapper, R:iC;~ .Stt~Q~~' Eric L.evlr.ie. _ ...• , , 1&,13 record this season and was seeded .first in the tournament. Union drew first blood, in last Friday's contest at Cortland, on a solo home run by Trace An- derson who batted .339 ,during the regular . season with two home runs, tttree triples and. a double. But in the bottom of the inning, freshman pitcher Glenn Kinns,. who had a 5-2 regular season recotd, was tagged for a home rtm by ·second baseman Bob VanMeter. 'The Red Dragons scored two more rWlS in the seventh. Kirins .went the distance on the mound for Union, allowing eight hits,while striking out and walking three.: The Dutchmen were held to three hits. 'The only other Union scoring· threat-came in the sixth, when Joe Lavery singled and Dave Adsit reached on an error with two out. But catcher Chris Massaroni ended the threat when he grounded out. But the post-seas()n loss did not detract from the Dut,. s:hmen's strong regular season showing. After a shaky start, they rallied and recorded a 7-2 log over the last part of their campaign. This stretch Wf.\S marred only by a double-header loss to powerful Utica. Numerous performers ·starred for Union. Leading the hitting corps, in addition to Anderson and Adsit, who batted a team-leading .390, whil'e stroking two triples and .five doubles, were Paul Waldek, Ron Levirie, Massaroni and Lavery. . Waldekbat~d .342, with three doubles and eight RBI. Levine batted .349 in 4-3 at.-bats. Massaroni batted .289, · while banging two doubles and ten RBI. And Lavery batted .284, with . two triples and four doubles·. His 15 RBI wer.e second only to Anderson, who bad 16. · Lavery was also a m~;~il)stay on the mound, finishing with a 3- 1 record. He logged a 3.86 ERA, second to Kinns' 2.89,. in 2B in- nings on the mound. Other pitching stars for the Dutchmen were Kinns, who struck out 44. in 55 innings, and Wayne Riker, who finished at 3- 2. · So the Dutchmen can look back with pride at their 197!1 season. Under interim coacb Dick Sakala, athletic director here who filled in for Tom Cahill, who sat out the season because of medical con· siderations, the team finished with its best record in a number of years. Prospects for next · year are promising, as well. Many of this year's field ieaders will be returning, with a year'~ more experience, as the team lo()ks to improve on this yea[''S sue· ce's.ses. Baseball Finat Record (12~10} Union 5 RPI Union 2 WILLIAMS Union 2 ALBANY STATE UNION 4 Rensselaer PI UNION (2) 6 St. Lawrence 12 Union (2) 13 CLARKSON, lO UNION 7 Siena Union (2) 13 HAMILTON 0 UNION 0 LeMoyne UNION (2) 2 Middlebury 1 ~ UNION 9 Albany State Union (2) 4 UTICA 3 Union 6 CORTLAND Union (2) 8 ROCHESTER 4 Union 25 HOBART +Union 1 CORTLANl) Tean1 in capitals is home team. +ECAC Playoffs. 6 7 15 2 10 9 8 13 6 3 9 7 1 0 1 6 7 5 4 1 2 3

EXTRA: FITZHUGH LUDLOW DAY T 1-I E _/ CONCORDIENSIS. \\ol .. l. SciiENECTADY, N. Y., NovJo:.r.tn.-:R, 1877· . No ... 1. life Of Fitz Hugh Ludlow Fit~ Hugh Ll;~dlow, Union Class o.f 1856, ~uthor of \ to Old Unio.n/' the school's aJma ma:ter. FitzHugh Ludlow, a former Union College student, is remembered for one of his poems which became Union College'S alma mater and has been sung at commencement since Ludlow graduated in 1856. He graduated with the highest literary honors of the class of which he was poet. Ludl()w did not originally eAter Union. He went to Princeton in l;li:s junior year at 17. His first term was interrupted by the burning of a colleg~ bui'lding, Nassau Hall. After this incident, he tran- sferred to Union in his second term .. He has been described by his classmates a~ brilliant in conversation, genial, generous to a fault. His features appeared finely::hiseledand he possessed extremely expressive eyes. Ludlow is not known ex- clusively for the poem which is Union's alma mater. He produced many other works including The Hasheesh Eater (1857 }, which is considered the first written work on · drugs. This work showed original powers of imagination and ~yle. He became addicted to the narcotic hashish before entering college. The rest of his ·life was an almost ,constant struggle against hashish. He studied law in New YQrk City and entered the bar, but he never pracUced. Rather, Ludlow devoted most of his time to writing. In 1863; he traveled ·-- over land ~fo California for his healtn. The result of· U1e trip was, The Heart of the Continent, a book describing his travels. Ludlow published articles irJ various magazines, such as thE Evening Post, Home Journal, and Harper's Bazar. In June 1870, Ludlow traveled toSwitzerland in a final effort to regain his health. He died on his 34th bJrthday in Geneva, Switzerland and was buried in Poughkeepsie, NY. \Memoirs testify to the tragedy of Ludlow's life, in which a brilHant intellect and a character noble· in many ways were ruined by a habit that broke down moral and physical strength.\ Union College- A Union Of People \There is. really no questioning the fact that Union College is doomed,\-eFrom No News, begun by the freshman Class in 1962 as the voice of the Class of 1966. To most members of the Union College community, the above statement will no doubt strike a familiar note. At sotne poi.nt during every person's experience at Union theY -reach the conclusiQn that SchenEJ,ctady has to be the worst place on earth and that matriculating at UniQn was probably the worst decision a student ever made. And, to top it all off, everyone also believes that they alone are the only individuals to have ever experienced such thoughts. As surpris_ing as .it may seem, many people who have taught, learned and worked at Union over the last 184 years have arrived! at precisely the same \unique\ conclusions that all of us now at Union have reached .. We have the above statement to remind us of student sentiment in th~ early 1960's. We have a further statement in 1888 when student enrollment had declined by 78 students in a si~ year period to a grand total of 96, 90 percent of which were from New York State (sound familiar?). Union's dire situation in 1888 led the students to adopt ·a resolution to, in essence; boycott the college. A resolution in Concordy that. year read, \that unless a president shall have been elected before to Union past is to illustrate the cyclical nature of the life and history of a college and to help us allrealize that Union will, no doubt, \be doomed\ many times in the future. Given this · fact, one shOuld conclude that rather than dwelling on our more easily forgotten memories, we should really be celebrating those aspects of the college that offer filvorable experiences we will likely never forget. Enter FitzHugh Ludlow Day.\ Fitzijugh Ludlow Day i·s designed to achieve three primary goals: (1) to encoura,ge all members of the campus community to get out and have a good time, (2) to create a sense of community among Union faculty, staff, ad- ministration and students by involving them in unique ac- tivities and so hopefully breaking down traditional cliques, and (3} to help familiarize people _with Union history and hopefully instill a sense of pride in Union by emphasizing the positive aspects of living, working, teaching and learning at Union. Union has many, many strengths in its own right that allofus should be aware of and take pride in. Perhaps Union's No. 1 strength, as it should be 1 is its people. As the Mountebanks have said for over 50 years, the college . is truly a \Union of People.\ How about: -John Blair Smith--Union's first president whose salary was $1;100 per year. -Squire Whipple, Class of 1830- the inventor of the iron truss bridge whose 1847 publication, \Work on Bridge Building,\ was used as a gUide in the construction of bridges span- ning the Ohio, Misso.uri, and Mississippi Rivers, truly opening the Western frontiers for settlement. president while Nott refused to relinquish control -of the presidency despite the .fact that he was a virtual cripple for the last 7-10 years of his tenure. -Robert Toombs,Classof 1820- .Secretary of State for the Confederacy during tl:le Civil War. -FitzHugh Ludlow, Class of 1856..-.autbor of the coll~ge alma mater and a very interesting personality and revolutionary author. -Chester Arthur, Class of 1848--succeeded James A. Garfield as President of the United States in 1881. His ad- ministration saw the passage of a Civil Service Reform Act and the creation of a new, strong navy in addition to ''the style and character he brought to the office.\ We- need not mention the fact that he ascended to the presidency upon Garfield's . assassination and was not renominated by his party for 1 the office. -Frank Bailey, Class of 1885- Union College treasurer for 52 years and has been called ''Mr. Union College\ of the twentieth century. Among his many, many contributions to Union was donation of what is now Bailey Hall, endowment of scholarships and grants-in~aid for needy students, establish- ment of three professorships and a half a million dollar gift to support teaching in the Elec- trical Engineering and Economics Departments. -sheldon Jackson, Class of 1855--a pioneer missionary whose reJjgious work in Alaska led one biographer to call him America's modern St. Paul. -Robert Porter Patterson, Class of 1912-the chief ad· ministrator of the War Department under President Harry Truman, he was awarded the Distinguished Service Medal for his work in that position . -Baruch S. Blumberg, Class of 1946-the 1977 Nobel Prize Winner in Medicine. . It is people like these, .:and people like us, that make Union the colilmunity we all hope it to be; capable of producing memories and developing potentialities that we will all remember. FitzHugh Ludlow Day is a concept. The goals of this effort may or may not be realized. The feelings, attitudes and interests of the campus community will be the determining factors in the success or failure of April 21. Let's all help to show the type of place Union has been and should continue tq be. . the end of the present term, we the undergraduate students shall feel it due our own in· terests to withdraw all lQya~ty and allegiance to the College and transfer our interests elsewhere.\ We also have the memories of the ''Great llhunination'' of 1809, an· un- paralleled (tt) that point) student revolt which involved placing burning candles in all the windows of Stone CoUege; which was expressly forbidden, and resulted in. an emergency meeting of the Board of Trustees at which time the existing system of dealing with student misconduct (which included faculty trials and whippings of students) was forever abandoned. -Laurens Perseus Hick()k, Class of 1820-~picked by Elipbalet Nott to be his suc- cessor as President of Union but instead spent 11 'frustrating years as · the college's vice An aerial view of Union College taken in the late 40s or 50S. The building thai i,s next to Carnegi~ i~ the Kap~a Alpha House; the building beyond thai 1s the Biology bu1ldmg. (Not1ce that the road which now curves beyond Science and Engineering Building runs straight back; along the row· of buildings. · The ,point of this brief return· ' I

Page'·2' ·.• • Ye OldeBiology 'Bu.ilding stood between the old Kappa Alpha House and Steinmetz Hall. The Library Annex. This .temporary structure stood in what is now fhe .. parking lot in front of Wells House. The library itself was in the Nott, and periodicals or books tha.t were needed had to be fetched from the annex. Kappa Alpha House. This building stood between Carnegie and the Old Biology building. If was torn down sometime in the late 1960s. · Fitz Hugh ludlow Day 8:00p.m. Friday through 2 :ooa~m. Sunday-:-Delta Chi Dance Marathon, Alumni Gym. 10:30.12:0<1-Morning Activities (Library Plaza, Nott Memorial & Library) -Union College Jazz Ensemble --Union College Historical Exhibit-come see some of the famous documents of the college, Eliphalet Nott's cap and gown, and many, many more interesting pieces of memorabilia. ll :()();.12: 00, Memorial Chapel:....Chapel Bell Playing~hear· the college alma mater and other college songs played on the Chapel's ije]ls. 11:00 through the afternoon, Daley Field, Alexander Field-Varsity Women's Softball Tournament . 12:.00-5:00-Afternoon Activities . -Barbeque-allmeal plan ticketholders may use their meal tickets for both lunch and dinner at the barbeque,the barbeque is open to all (25 cents for all items.) 1:00-2: oo- Butterfield Hall, Room 204-Faculty Discussion Se~sion: \Uberal Education as Preparation for Medical School\ .with Dr\ Willard Roth 1:00-2:00, Bailey Hall, Room 207-Faculty Discussion Session: \Nuclear Power, Ptos and Cons•• with Professor Ennis Pilcher 1 :00-2: 00, Soc. Sci. Bldg., Room 11()-Faeulty Discussion Session: ''Union Student Placement to Law and Business Schools\ with Professors Joseph Board and Jim Kenney. 2:00-3:00, Humanities Bldg., Room 117..;..Faculty Discussion Session: \The Union College Study Abroad Program'' with Professor William :Hendricks. 2:00.:3:00, Steinmetz Hall, Room 110-Facu}ty Discussion Session: \Engineering a Bobsled for the 1980 Olympics.,..A Student Project'' with Professor Dave Ullman 2:01).:3:00, ButterfieldHall, Room 2~Faculty Discussion Session: \Liberal ~dJ,u;!ation as Preparation for Medical Schobl'' with Professor Willard Roth 2 :00-3:00, Humanities Bldg., Room 112;...Faculty Discussion Session' \China Mter Mao\ with Professors Bruce Reynolds and Donald Thurston . · 2 :oo.3: 00, Soc. Sci. Bldg., Room 112-Faculty Discussion S~ssion: ''What Excellence Means in Undergraduate Education, and How a Faculty Member Recognizes It\ with Professor Byron Nichols · All Afternoon Library Plaza.,..,Union College ''Historical Hint Hunt\ -be the jirst or second person· to return a correct \Hint Hunt'' sheet covering several aspects of l]nion's history and win a prize! ... All Mternoon, Library Plaza-sale of FitzHugh Ludlow Day T-8hirts-pick up a speCial FitzHugh Ludlow or Nelson Dubrow T-5hirt for only $3.00! All.Afternoon, Library Plaza-Volleyball 2 :()().5 :00, Library Field-DG Olympics withWRUC Remote-sign up a team to compete or bet on other teams engaged in O~ympic competitions. 2:00-3:00, Library Plaza-Live Bluegrass Band All Afternoon, Library Plaza--chess and Checkers Games will be available for those so in· cllned ' .. All .Afternoon-Library Plaza-The \Earth Ball\ will be available for fun andgames! All Afternoon, Library Plaza-Balloons w:ill be distributed for your enjoyment . .AU .Afternoon, Library Plaza-Kites will be distributed for your enjoyment. 3:oo.5:00, Strauss Lounge-Cocktail Party as part of Women's Week1979 5:30-Arts Building, Room-202-Chamber Music Recital . . 9:00, Memorial Chapel-In Concert-Jonathan Edwards and Comedian DavidSayh. Look for free Kites, Balloons: & .Frisbees T-Shirts for Selle A II Saturday A fteril.o~n on Library Field Dutchman's Village, Garrlss Field. The \village'; lasted from 19.46 to 1950. It provided hbuslng for married students; most of whom came to Union on the Gl bill. ,r_::t' Un Did you kno --Union i terdenornim the United ! ..was tl chartered b: State of N original call foundinJea in the libra: -Union i chitecturall in the cOt developed Jacques I architect President J original bt were North built in 181 Phi Garr is today Beta·~ Hou~e

Page .. S· ·. Union College Facts Did you know that- --Union is the oldest in- terdenominational college in the United States. .. Was tne first colle.ge chartered by the .Regents of the State of New York apd the original college charter· tan be found in Jean Pelletiere's office in the library. -Union is the first ar~ chitect.urally planned .campus in the country having been developed from the plans of Jacques Ramee, a French architect commissioned by President Eliphalet Nott. The original .bUildings on campus were North and South Colleges built in 1812 and 1813. At that tune there were no central heating or plumbing facilities in either building. Outhouses and lavatories were located behind the dormitories and were neither heated nor lighted. -south College is the oldest continuously used male ,dor- mitory in the coW1try. -Eliphalet Nott was president ot Union from 1804 to 1866, the longest tenure of any American college ;president. He was president of Union when Abraham Lincoln was born and was still president when Lincoln was assassinated. ..,In 1845, Union became the first liberal arts college to -offer an engineering .. program and in Phi Gamma Delta House where the gate that leads to un 10n Avenue is today.~ · the 1820\s when the cla~sical curriculum was the most widely accepted field of study, Union introduced a bachelor's degree with gr~ater emphasis on science, rnodern languages and mathematics. · -The f:irst chapter of Phi :Beta Kappa ill New York State was founded at Union in 1817. --The first three · social fraternities in the United States were foUllded at Union: Kappa Alpha (11!25 ), Sigma Phi (1827), and Delta Phi (1827). ·-Hans Groote's KHl (the \brooktbat bounds through Old Union's Grounds;\ as the alma mater suggests) was named after a Dutch fanner whose' fields covered much of the present campus. --Jackson's Gardens were begun inithe 1820's by Professor Isaac .Jackson whose home stood al()ngside Nortp College. His toolshed can still be found behind North College near the gardens. Within the gardens are two glnko trees (the first ;brougM to America from Japan}, remains of trenches dug by an ROTC unit during the Civil War and more than 100 species of rare plants, trees, .shrubs and vines. -Dixon Ryan Fox;, Union's twelfth pr-esident, in his book, Union (;onege, An Unfinished History, described Schenectady winter temperatures as being \stimulating but not for- midabl(l~\ -Uni()n' s first president, John Blair Smith, was a strong ·assoCiate of james Madison in carrying through the Federal Constitution in the Virginia State convention. -President Roosevelt's father came to Union in 1845 because he 1111derstood that Union was ''the. bes.L senior college in Ameri<!a.\ --Dt,Uing Eliphalet Nott's presidency; Union produced a Presic:lent of the United States, · six cabinet secretaries, 13 United States senators, 91 members of the House of Representatives, 12 governors, 49 important diplomats, ap- proximately 200 judges, 40 missionaries, and 86 college presidents. / -In the Civil War there were fifteen Union College graduates who r()se to be generals and two to be rear admirals. -The Universities of lllinois, Iowa, and Michi.gan as well as \ f I These gentlemen are pointing to Ovey Hal!, which served as the temporary headquarters of .ROTC at Union. The man on the far right is Carier Davidson, then President o.f the college. Vassar, Smith, and Elmira Colleges all count Union alumni as their first presidents. -Old Gym Hall is the first college gymnasium ever built in 1876. It was converted to a dormitory in 1914 and became the Admissions Office in 1964. -From 1923 to 1957, a student received a tuition scholarship for playing the college S<lngs on the bells in Memorial Chapel. One can hear many of those same songs Saturday morning as part of the \FitzHugh Ludlow Day\ activ~ties. ·-As superstition has it, Memorial Fieldhouse is sup- posedly haunted. It was built in 1955 by a firm of Union alumni with funds raised by the alumni body. A gruesome murder was conunitted in the oak grove where the fieldhouse now stands and the young man and his fiance, as the story has it, who were killed; are said to enjoy .. watching Union basketball games, volleyball matches and track meets. -Dixon Ryan Fox, in ad~ dressing the New York Association of Union College Alumni in 1944, made the following remarks concerning the future -of the college: \We know (Union) will be strong, but _ what its strength shall be depends on us, and the other seven thousand who owe it fealty and cherish it. Whatever contribution we make to that strenfit;h, in whatever amount or form, ties our lives and ef- forts to something permanent, that will represent us after we have faded from the scene.\ Union will be ,our college for as long as we live, let's hope that we may always have the insight to sit back, reflect and appreciate what Union has done for us and what we have done for Union. Beta House stood where the new tennis cour-ts are, behind Lamont Hous.e. Washburn Hall served as the .Student Activities Offf.lce, Mountebanks, WRCU, Concordy and the Oean of Students also had offices there. Built in the 1870s, it was torn down in 1963-64 to make room for the Humanities and Social Science Buildings.

Page 4 OONCORDIENSIS~ No-vf3mlJer 1'871 Nelson- Dubrow Comes To Union_ ·c_ollege. Once Upon a time, in the town of Schenectady, the clouds parted and a light shown down upon a large mammary shaped structure. A voice said, \It shall come to pass.\ And it did, and it shall, and it hq~. For the Lord, the Dean of Admissions, had decreed that Nelson, Nelson Dubrow, be admitted to the Promised Land, Union College. Nelson Dubrow entered Union as an unasswning bio major. An average Union College student, he ~had aspirations to attend medical school. His predetermined path soon led him into trouble. He foundered on the rock of Organic Chemistry. Wallowing in his Slough of Despond, he took to ex· perimenting with the residue at1d precipitates from his OChem labs. Although he successfully altered his con· sciousness he also managed to produce a small growth of a fWlgus-like substance on his upper lip. That fungus confirmed Nelson's belief that he was, indeed on the threshold of manhood. He was filled with a desireto participate in the rites that mark the passage between childhood and adulthood. That desire to consummate his ever- burgeoning manhood led him to \Be Bold.\ Finally, the winter term of his sophomore year, he glimpsed the ehance to try his luck. While on security duty at North College, he made advances to an intoxicated resident. He interpreted the girl's collapse on the floor as her submitting to his amorous innuendoes. However, he was wrong. Nelson Dubrow's despair over this encounter sent him spiraling back into his depression. He was living in Davidson at the time, and at- tempting to provide himself with food, as well as a place to sleep when his roommate has various ''guests'' for the evening. He took to sprinkling oregano-like spices on everything he consumed: his orange juice, his Pub salad,, his dogs from Mike's. Such unusual-eating habits of course had their effect on his attempts at working .. He fell asleep in Biochem lab, hallucinated during \Alienated Man\ lectures. His aspirations to attend -Medkal school died, as did all his home-grown plants.,. Then, fall-term of his junior year, Nelson Dubrow went on a term abroad to Italy. He thought it would be therapeutic. (Or, more precfsely, he thought, \I need a gut term. I think 'I'll go to Italy.\) Littledidhc know his trip was to be a tm;ning point in his academic life. Walking through the museum of Rome, Venice and Florence, Nelson stood amazed before great works of art. Hwnbled, he thought to himself, ''This is pretty good, this stuff.\ Thus was Nelson reborn as a Humanities major. Returning to Union, Nelson pursued a demanding course. He swore off oregano-like substances. He stopped making advances to intoxicated women. He visited the Registrar's twice a day to make sure he was going to fulfill all · his Comp Ed- Libera! Learning transition requirements. And finally, Nelson graduated from this state of being, into another. The year in which he graduated is irrelevant. His major is irrelevant. Nelson figures in the annals of Union history. not so much as an in- dividual, but as an archetypal character. His experiences at Union became a sympol something that every Union College ·student, male or female, could identify with. What is perhaps most im- portant about Nelson Dubrow is that he proves conclusively the existence of a life after Union College. When he occassionally drops us a line from his plush, high-rise office, mentioning that his new raise puts him in a tax bracket with J, Paul Getty, we can appreciate the promise that Nelson represents. Yes, those reswnes we have so painfully written . in Placement workshops will find us jobs, and eventually we, too, will be as Nelson Dubrow is. Nelson Dubrow, expostul'ating on the eternal truth of Plato's Repubih:., enjoys the lovely spring weather at Union. Nelson \Joe Cool\ D1.1brow, hanging .out on the steps of Carnegie. II HODOR 01 1111 HUiiH liDl Ill UNION COLLEGE CONCERT & SOCIAL COMMITTEES present IN CONCERT J ONATHAN GEDWARDS . & . . Comedian GDavid Sayh · Saturday. AprU 21_9:00/p.m. '. MEMORIAL CHAPEL .................... (, ... ~ ... - ........ _ ............... ... 5CW WITH UNION ID TICKET PICK-UP MONDAY, APRIL 16TH IN STUDENT ACTIVITIES · .. VoL lC Vice Pr the Fu• b The Comml GUide. Respor phlet proced of cha code, ~ De a: chang proc,ec vestig: to the Heco1 the co: cases that il any 1 relate Zolne1 comrr decidi Unde Ombt by ro Kel the Draft that 1 madE facul on tl this pres! the.p been cons studt likei actu as 1 appE \va1 harl K4 ther guic pro1 min clue resJ are: stu< no~ Offl Offi diS! ',[ \al mu Co1 mi1 De

